
Qass. 
Book. 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT 



70^ 



THE 

American Home Diet 

AN ANSWER TO THE EVER PRESENT QUESTION 

WHAT SHALL WE 
HAVE for DINNER 



E. V.^cCOLLUM 

Professor of Chemical Hygiene 
and 

NINA SIMMONDS 

Instructor in Chemical Hygiene 

in the 

School OF Hygiene and Public Health 

of the 

Johns Hopkins University 
baltimore, md. 



DETROIT 
FREDERICK C. MATHEWS COMPANY 

NiNETEEN-TwENTY 

{all rights reser--ved) 



TX55I 



COPYRIGHT 1920 
IN THE 

United States and Canada 



Frederick C. Mathews Co. 

DETROIT 

FIRST EDITION, MAY 1920 



iG!.A571743 



JUL 23 ly^O 



"t/VO 



PREFACE 

During the last twenty years steady progress has 
been made by various agencies in the Department of 
Agriculture and by the Home Economics Depart- 
ments in the States in introducing better methods of 
preparing and of preserving food in the home. One 
of the chief aims has been to teach the housewife how 
to select and prepare food so as to provide better 
nutrition for the family. While this work has been 
going on, scientific investigation has been making 
rapid progress in revealing the importance of several 
factors which were not appreciated a few years ago. 
As a result of this the character of the instruction in 
nutrition has necessarily undergone a decided change. 
The acquisition of numerous new facts relating to 
nutrition, which has come from experiments on 
animals, has greatly multiplied the detailed knowl- 
edge which the teacher of nutrition must master in 
order to be able to answer the many technical ques- 
tions relating to the subject. It has increased the 
complexity of the problem of inspecting the daily 
menu so as to make certain that it is adequate in all 
respects. On the other hand certain generalizations 
which increasing knowledge has warranted, make it 
possible to simplify the problem of the housewife in- 
stead of complicating it. 

It has been the aim of the authors to explain in 
non-technical language the reasons for the superior- 
ity of certain combinations of foods over others, and 
to offer convincing evidence that the regular use -of 
proper combinations of our common food-stuffs is the 
key-note to the successful feeding of the family. It 
is believed that an appreciation of the reasons why 
certain selections of food should be made, will be 
welcomed by intelligent housewives everywhere, be- 



PRKFACE 

t;iiisi' ol tlic general developnu-nl of the scientific 
spirit vvliicli is not satisfied witli doinj; without iindcr- 
staiuhuj^", Jlencc a coiisidcrahlc amount of si)acc has 
hc'iMi dt'votod lo a (k\scrii)tion of tlic results of niahui- 
trition of (hlTcrcnt types. If knowledjie is j)()\ver, 
and if to he fore-warned is to he fore-armed in otlier 
(hreelioiis, il must of necessity appl}^ to the task of the 
motlu'i- of I he family in a vital way. 

While it is imjxtrtant that every woman should 
understand the fundamental facts of nutrition, and of 
( he pi'eserx at ion of food, t he task of |)lannin^- the daily 
diet of the family so as to conform with the hest 
knovvledj^e which we possess, should he accomplished 
with the least jxissihle expiMidit ure of thought and 
ener}4y. The i)resentation of a suitahle menu for each 
day seemed the hest method of attaining this end. 
]t is expected that some freedom will he exercised in 
sid)slitut ion of one article for ant)ther haxin*^" sinu'lar 
dietary properties, whene\er it seems desirahle. hut 
it is helieved that in many cases the complete adop- 
tion of the memis as they are tahulated will prove 
nu)st satisfactoiy. 

I hie rej^ard for ai)petite and customary food habits 
has necessitated the inclusion of meats in one form or 
another more freciucntly than i)hysioloj^ical need will 
justify, hut it is reco^nizetl that to ignore deep-seated 
psychic demands would defeat the purpose of the 
authors, which is io wi>rk tinvard the ,iioal of better 
mitritiou for the .American family. While catering;" 
to the sense of taste for sound psychological reasons, 
the \\i\y is pointed out for the mothers of the rising- 
jxeneration to discouraj^c certain abuses of aj^petite 
which are now common, and to establish in childluHnl 
an appreciation o\ wholesome foods. 

Haltimore. Md.. K. \ . McCOTJ.UAI. 

SeptenduM-. 11)19. NTNA SlMI^rONDS. 



PART I 
Chapter I 

INTRODUCTION 

It is essential, in order to understand the technical 
details of the science of nutrition, that one should 
have an accurate knowledge of those divisions of 
physiology which relate to digestion and assimila- 
tion of food; an appreciation of the conditions within 
the alimentary tract which favor the growth of one ^*^**p® "' 
or another type of bacteria, whose presence, accord- Nutrition 
ing to their race, may be beneficial or harmful; and 
an understanding of the chemistry of the substances 
which serve man as food and the changes which they 
undergo in the body. Such knowledge is not easy 
to acquire, and its scope is so great that it is not even 
possible to include all of it in the usual course of 
study leading to a college degree. It cannot be sim- 
plified very far without sacrificing in accuracy. It 
is not possible for all to become familiar with the 
technical aspects of the subject, and it is asking too 
much of the housewife to urge her to try to master 
the subject of nutrition. Nevertheless, she should 
understand the subject in its broad outlines, and 
should possess detailed knowledge of certain phases 
of it. The interests of the mother of a family extend 
beyond the supervision of its nutrition. They include 
its proper clothing, education and moral direction. 
Insofar as she can attain the desired results in their 
nutrition and reserve her time and energy for her 
other duties, an effort should be made to do so. Sci- 
ence must help her in this task. 

The farmer does not in general understand the 
chemical why and wherefore of the fertilizers which 
he uses. It is not probable that he would succeed 



The Farmer 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

any better if he had a far reaching knowledge of the 
several sciences which have contributed to the ad- 
vancement of agriculture. Science has taught him 
how to improve his animals through systematic selec- 
tion, for dairying, for meat, egg and wool production. 
It has shown him how to test his seeds, so that their 
Experiment P^wer to germinate is known before planting. Sci- 
Station encc has pointed out the importance of rotating crops 
rather than growing one crop year after year on the 
same plot. The agricultural experiment stations are 
making excellent farmers, by the process of instruct- 
ing them in what to do, without the detailed knowl- 
edge of the why. The farmer can dispense with tech- 
nical education which would be time consuming and 
expensive because he can ask questions of experts pro- 
vided by the state, and get a better answer than he 
could ever arrive at by means of his own limited 
opportunity for experiment and observation. 

The merchant needs to know quality in his goods, 
and to be able to judge their worth and how far he 
can recommend them. He would not in general suc- 
ceed better with a knowledge of the detailed tech- 
nique of their manufacture to make it worth while 
for him to seek this information. The housewife, 
the farmer and the merchant, and others, need 
certain knowledge which is directly applicable to 
their problems, and except as the acquisition of 
knowledge adds to the joy of living, an investment 
of efforts toward acquiring technical details relating 
in some remote way to their business would not be 
as advisable as the cultivation of an interest in some 
unrelated field of human endeavor. The latter course 
would in most cases afford more complete and benefi- 
cial recreation, and accordingly would be more advis- 
able. 

The mother of a family has a great multiplicity 
of duties, and one of her greatest needs is for an 

2 



The 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

opportunity to be free for a time each day to engage 
in activities which serve as a recreation. It cannot 
be denied that much of the education which she has 
been offered in nutrition has not only not simpHfied 
her problem, but has added to it. Is it practical or 
necessary to confront the housewife with tables giv- 
ing the fuel values and content of protein, fat and ^^^ ^^^^ 
carbohydrate in foods? Is it worth her while to learn Nutrition 
to visualize a hundred calorie portion of all of the of the 
common food-stuffs? Does not this complicate the Family 
whole problem of teaching her the essentials of nu- 
trition? Does it not defeat our end by making her 
feel that such things are impossible of application in 
her every-day routine? We all realize that the con- 
stant care, planning, timing and watching the prog- 
ress of cooking foods as well as attention to all the 
other duties of the household lay a great strain on 
the nervous system of the woman who conscientious- 
ly attends to them. There can be no doubt that 
women who are attempting to the best of their abili- 
ties to do for their families what the dictates of 
science demand would be greatly relieved if some 
system which would simplify their work instead of 
adding to it could be found. An effort to solve this 
problem, even though only partially successful, is 
desirable. 

Although there has been great activity during the 
past few years by various agencies in the work of 
educating the housewife in matters relating to nutri- 
tion, much of what has been written for her has not 
tended to save her labor, nor has it embodied the sources ^f 
new principles which have become firmly established, information 
Many agencies have set themselves up as authorities, for the 
and have filled newspapers and magazines and books Housewife 
with advice and directions in a confusing array. The 
Department of Agriculture has done a most valuable 
and commendable work in preparing and distributing 

3 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

literature for the education of the woman in the home, 
and its bulletins have always been written by experts 
in this held and were abreast of the times. The ex- 
Sources of tension workers of this department and in Universi 
" **^r^th" ^^^^ ^^^^ Colleges have accomplished an immense 
Housewife amount of good. There is no group of teachers who 
are more keen in keeping informed on the scientific 
literature, and they well deserve the confidence and 
patronage which they are receiving. The interpre- 
tation of the problems of nutrition found in these 
pages is essentially that now generally recognized by 
teachers. 

In the columns of newspapers and magazines de- 
voted to the home we see daily an unending series 
of new recipes for the preparation of novel dishes. 
This is a movment in the wrong direction. It tends 
to cultivate an unfortunate practice of seeking after 
^^^^ novelty in appearance of foods. It over-emphasizes 
mp asis ^j^g importance of attractiveness of service, and en- 

on Attrac- . , ... . . ^ ~. 

tivenessof tices the woman m the home to give tmie and effort 
Food to making fancy dishes, when her efforts could- be 
much better spent in other ways. Children who grow 
up to be accustomed to never ending variety in foods 
^ acquire false and useless standards. The young wife 

who must do as well as her mother-in-law is said to 
have done in making things which are good to look 
at and to taste is frequently much closer tied to the 
kitchen than is necessary or desirable in order to fur- 
nish wholesome and nutritious food, and is robbed 
Not of her right to leisure which she might well employ 
Necessary ^q j^gj- advantage in other pursuits. Americans should 
to ompute j-gturn to simplicity in diet for the relief of the house- 
wife, and for the good of their children. Any plan 
which urges the mother of the family to keep note 
of the calories consumed by her family should be 
discouraged, since it adds to her mental labors instead 
of affording relief. Satisfactory nutrition can be se- 

4 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

cured for the family without this or the solution each 
day of a scientific problem in trying- to properly adjust 
the protein and energy intake to the individual needs 
of every member of the family. A movement in the 
direction of simplifying the v^^ork of the kitchen is 
much needed. 

It is true that in many institutions such as orphan- 
ages, prisons and asylums the inmates do not eat 
enough, either because they cannot get it, or because 
the quality is so unsatisfactory that the appetite fails. 
It is also true that even in good homes a child may 
fail to eat enough because of fatigue from lack of 
sufficient sleep, or because of excitement due to appre- 
hension that it will fail to reach school on time, or 
fail to prepare a lesson. Children who live so far 
from school as to make it barely possible for them to 
reach home, eat and return to the school house during 
the noon recess, cannot be expected to eat in the 
proper frame of mind, and doubtless in many cases 
such children do not eat enough. All children should 
be weighed at regular intervals, and any failure to 
increase in weight at the rate which is normal for 
their ages, should be regarded with alarm and all pos- 
sible causes inquired into and the actual cause re- 
moved when discovered. A satisfactory food supply 
and proper eating habits will not alone guarantee 
health. They must be supplemented with other good 
habits. Proper rest periods, proper exercise, good 
hygienic surroundings and peace of mind, each play 
an important role. 

The view has been accepted at the outset that 
while there is danger of over-eating by those with Appetite 
little judgment or self-respect, there is none that a Should 
normal person in health will fail to eat enough when Regulate 
food is available and presented in an attractive form, Quantity 
We can trust to the appetite to serve as a guide when 
the diet is properly made up to the amount of food 

5 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

which should be eaten. Those who work hara dur- 
ing the forenoon seldom fail to react at the dinner 
table with an appetite sufficient to insure their cover- 
ing a possible deficit of calories which might be ex- 
pected to follow a repetition of the same active work 
in the afternoon. Those who do not do manual work 
do not as a rule have the gigantic appetites of la- 
borers, and if they eat as do the latter, they ultimately 
sufifer from it. It is doubtful whether the housewife 
has ever restricted the food intake of her family by 
preparing for them the amounts of food which her 
mathematics and tables determine to be their indi- 
vidual needs. In the well regulated household there 
is always available some article to satisfy the appetite 
of a member of the family circle who may, because 
of unusual activity, want more than his usual amount 
of food. Why not take the appetite as a guide at the 
outset and ignore calculations of all kinds? 

Scientific research has fully demonstrated that the 
view which was universally accepted a few years ago, 
viz. that the protein and energy needs of the body 
are the two most fundamental factors in nutrition, 
is erroneous. In the older literature foods were se- 
EnergyNot jgcted solely on the basis of their chemical composi- 
t e ost ^.^^ ^^^ £^^^1 value, and the commonest comparison 

Important . ,. . . . , , , . 

Factor of the feeding of an individual was with the stokmg 
of an engine. Standards were adopted for the pro- 
tein and energy requirements of the individual on the 
basis of age, sex and amount of work performed. This 
system remained in vogue for want of anything bet- 
ter. It was based on sound scientific facts, so far as 
it went, but these facts were of a nature which made 
them of little value for the immediate needs of the 
one who plans the daily diet. While data of this kind 
still remains of great usefulness in the estimation of 
large purchases of food for groups of persons, the 
family group is so small that suitable amounts of 

6 



WHAT SHALL, WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

food can easily be estimated with the eye by the ex- 
perienced purchaser. This system did not, we now 
know, take into account all the factors which must 
be considered in the choice of food, but it had other 
defects as well. 

Chief among these defects was the view that the 
woman who plans the meals must keep rigidly in 
mind several matters such as the special needs of overweight** 
different members of the family group, the working 
man; the sedentary man, his fatness or leanness; the 
child in school; the aunt with a tendency to over 
weight; and grandfather who is getting old. Such a 
demand on a housekeeper who has all the usual 
household cares on her mind defeats its own end, and 
after an excursion into the literature of nutrition 
she usually reverts to the old and well tried method 
of providing the things which experience has taught 
her her family likes, and she gives them as much as 
they want. 

We have failed to find any evidence either in ani- 
mal experimentation or in human experience to war- 
rant the belief that there is. any essential difference 
in the character of the diet which will best support 
well-being in persons of different ages. It is true that 
certain foods which are not suited to the delicate 
digestive tract of the infant or young child can be 
safely taken by an adult. It is by no means certain, 
however, that the adult will be well nourished and his 
vitality maintained at a high level by diets which 
are unsuited to the child of four or five years. In- 
deed, there are strong reasons for believing that such Adult's Diet 
diets as maintain normal growth and. vigor in chil- p^.^^^^^^ 
dren past infancy are physiologically superior to any Growth in 
which would not fulfill these requirements. There the Young 
is no satisfactory evidence that the character of the 
diet should be changed when growth is completed. 
It is advisable, in order to make use of certain foods 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET. OR 



Instruction 

of Children 

in Nutrition 



which can be produced economically, for the adult 
portion of the population to use to some extent foods 
which are not suitable for infants or young children, 
for it seems that this can be done without detrimental 
effects by following very simple rules for combining 
them so as to make good each others deficiencies. 

The mother of a growing family has it in her 
power to educate them according to their capacity to 
become normal human beings. Young children 
should be restrained from incessant eating, and the 
same restraint should be continued during the adoles- 
cent period when the boy or girl, overflowing with 
animal spirits, and active in out-door activities, would 
frequently, if left to their own choice, take food at 
any time it is available. In the schools, as well as in 
the home, children should be taught what kind of a 
diet best promotes health, and the dangers to health 
and happiness in later life which follows the violation 
of the laws of nutrition. Failure to develop a normal 
appetite for wholesome foods at meal time as the 
result of taking all but worthless soft drinks and con- 



fections, and of 



eating 



candy regularly between 



meals, may be reflected in any abnormal craving for 
more of the articles which delight because of their 
appearance, taste and odor, when in reality it is a 
sign of abnormality due to faulty nutrition. If the 
effects of such transgressions were more prompt and 
more severe, their seriousness would be more often 
appreciated by parents. Unfortunately their effects. 
are slow and cumulative, and their future menace 
seems too remote to exert much corrective influence. 

The central idea in the system of diet provided 
by the menus for the entire year which are presented 
in this book is that it is possible to substitute for the 
type of instruction which has been given in the past to 
the housewife, and which requires her to learn some- 
thing new and difficult, a plan which saves her the 

8 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

task of continually exercising ingenuity in planning 
succeeding meals. At the same time it assures her 
that the diet presented to her family at every meal central idea 
time complies with all the requirements of physiology of the Plan 
so far as our present knowledge makes possible. The 
almost universal tendency to constipation and its 
debilitating effects have been kept constantly in mind, 
and the menus regularly contain articles which tend 
to correct it. The amounts of meats served will fall 
decidedly below that common in many households, 
and the cheaper cuts have been introduced as far as 
seemed consistent with the serving of attractive food. 
There has been a distinct effort made to make the 
flesh foods go as far as possible in conferring palata- 
bility on vegetable foods, and a more liberal use of 
milk is assured than is common in the average Amer- 
ican home by the regular introduction of milk into 
cookery. This in itself cannot fail to improve mark- 
edly the quality of the diet over what is now in daily 
use almost universally in this country. In addition 
it may be claimed for the menus presented that they 
are of such a nature as to satisfy the appetite of any- 
one whose esthetic demands for food are not over 
fasti-dious. At the same time they are not so tempt- 
ing as to encourage over eating. 

Foreign and meaningless names of dishes have 
not been used, and this we believe requires no apology ^^ Foreign 
or defense. The spirit of Americanism has grown ®^"** 
greatly in recent years, and it is time that it should be 
reflected in the household books on diet. 

Since the object is to simplify the work of feeding 
the family throughout the year so as best to promote 
its health, and at the same time to give the housewife 
as much respite as possible from the kitchen, very few 
dishes are included which require great expenditure 
of time or labor. Simplicity of service has also been 
kept in mind with the same end in view. To the 

9 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



woman who finds her greatest pleasure in life in set- 
ting an artistic table, and who really likes to spend 
much time in making fancy dishes, this idea may not 
Simple appeal, but to the judicious woman who realizes the 
Foods and iiy,portance of having both a profession and respite 

Simplicity . ^ . . . ° 1 1 r • i. i 

of Service fi'om it tor recreation and self miprovement, a plan 
for efficiency in her business, and shorter hours of 
work cannot fail to be welcome. 

It was deemed inadvisable to enter into a discus- 
sion of the diet of the sick. Rather, it is aimed to 
prevent disorders of metabolism which result from 
violation of physiological laws by preventing errors 
in diet. A simple discussion of the common elements 
of danger in the handling of food of infants, and well 
established facts concerning why food should be prop- 
erly handled, is included because an understanding 
of these matters should be a part of the stock of 
knowledge of every mother. A discussion in non- 
technical language of the properties of each of the 
more important foods, and the requirements which 
must be met in human nutrition, is included in order 
to give the housewife an appreciation of the theory 
on which the diets which she serves are formulated. 
This cannot fail to add interest in her work. 



10 



Hygiene 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Chapter II. 

THE RELATION OF THE DIET TO HEALTH 

The span of human life has been nearly doubled 
during the last century and a half because of the 
operation of several factors. Living conditions have 
been improved through sanitation; water and milk 
supplies have been rendered nearly safe; the fly nui- xendTto 
sance abated, and thereby typhoid fever greatly re- prolong 
duced ; mosquito control has eradicated yellow^ fever Life 
and has in certain localities greatly reduced malaria. 
Preventive medicine has worked wonders in produc- 
ing immunity against several diseases, and progress 
in this direction is still being made. 

Much, however, remains to be accomplished in 
alleviating the sufferings of mankind. The mortality 
records show a marked decline in the power of Amer- 
ican workers to withstand certain influences in mod- 
ern life. This is manifested in an extraordinary in- 
crease in the death rate from breaking down of the 
heart, hardening of the arteries, the development of 
diseases of the kidneys and an increase in nervous 
and digestive disorders. 

These diseases are developing in younger people 
Avith each succeeding decade, and now reach down 
into middle life, and are increasing in people of all 
ages. They are old age diseases, and yet among the ^,. . 
410,000 people who die annually from them, 60,000 Djseast^s 
die under the age of forty years ; 105,000 die between 
the ages of forty and sixty years, and 245,000 die 
above the age of sixty. Tuberculosis causes every 
year about one-tenth of the total death rate, and little 
if anything has been accomplished in reducing its 
prevalence. There is no better treatment for this 
disease than rest, fresh, clean, cold air, and good feed- 

11 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET. OR 

ing. The recovery of thousands under this regime 
attests its value. There is little doubt that bad living 
conditions and especially the adherence to a diet of 
poor quality, lowers the vitality and renders people 
susceptible to the disease, and is in great measure 
responsible for its wide spread occurrence. 

Not only is the span of life shortened by these old 
age diseases, but the productive period of life and 
the capacity of the individual are reduced. Accidents, 
damaged products and ruined machinery, as well as 
physical discomfort and mental suffering, are the 
price which society is paying for living in such a way 
as to foster the early degeneration of the body tissues 
and consequently early loss of youth. They are the 
causes of inaccuracy, lack of efficiency and lack of 
success. The records show that the mortality from 
these old age diseases has increased nearly one hun- 
dred per cent, in thirty years. There can no longer 
be any doubt that faulty nutrition is one of the most 
important factors contributing to this condition. 

Early aging is manifested not only in the ways 
just mentioned, but is reflected in the character of 
much of the advertising matter in our newspapers and 
periodicals. There is no more promptly appearing 
Early sign of poor nutrition than loss of the normal texture 
Aging ^j^(j quality of the skin. The numerous expensive 
spaces devoted to describing the virtues of facial 
soaps, beauty lotions and skin foods, reveal the profit 
arising from an appreciation by manufacturers of the 
extent to which the women of America today are ob- 
serving in their mirrors skins which have lost the 
quality seen in the faces of well nourished school girls 
in the primary grades. It is further reflected in the 
elaborate displays of hair of shades characteristic of 
youth in the windows of every city; in the scores of 
different remedies for constipation: in cures for bald- 

13 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

ness, and in the financial success of magazines de- 
voted to physical culture. 

These and other causes for uneasiness to so large 
a portion of our population reveal the need for a full 
appreciation of the kind of habits of life which wrill 
conserve better than we are now conserving the buoy- 
ancy of childhood and adolescence, which but occa- 
sionally remain long with either men or women after 
growth is completed. It is time to present to our 
children, in practical form, the best advice possible 
in the light of modern nutrition studies, concerning 
how to live so as to promote health and vigor, and to 
preserve as long as possible the characteristics of 
youth. One of the most important means of pre- 
venting the deterioration of the body is through 
proper nutrition. 

Poor physical condition is by no means restricted 
to recent years in this country, nor is it necessarily 
due to modern conditions of city living. Many will 
recall how our grandmothers insisted on the frequent Faulty 
treatments with sulphur and molasses ; the periodical jsrot^New* 
dosing with bitters, and the efficacy of sassafras 
tea in the spring as a means of "thinning the blood", 
which was supposed to become impure and thick 
during the winter. Among our pioneer ancestors 
the idea was generally accepted that there was a 
need for a spring medicine of some kind. There Former 
can be little doubt that this belief rested on common ^^^ spring 
experience. We know that in the early settlement Medicines 
of many of the states the people suffered great hard- 
ships. With little capital and no food reserve, their 
winter diet was generally very simple and monot- 
onous, and there is good reason to believe 
that it was chemically unsatisfactory for the main- 
tenance of health. After a period of several months 
during each succeeding winter they felt "run down," 

13 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

and when spring came the prevalence of "that tired 
feeHng" which the ahnanacs which were circulated 
by patent medicine concerns made such profitable use 
of in convincing people that they needed a course of 
The treatment with sarsaparilla or a "spring tonic" or 
Restricted q^-j^^j- "blood purifier," was so universal that it estab- 

Winter . . . 

Diet lished the belief that winter was an unhealthful sea- 
son. If one now investigates the same communities 
where a few years ago this condition was regularly 
observed, one finds prosperous farms, well supplied 
with dairy heads, orchards and all the signs of mod- 
erate prosperity. There is much less pronounced 
difference between the winter and summer diet, for 
these reasons and because of the abundance of canned 
fruits and vegetables put up at home or easily pro- 
curable from the grocery stores. These changes 
have caused the disappearance of the tired feeling in 
the spring (or better, at the end of winter), and 
consequently the need for spring medicines. 

The vendor of spring medicines had a powerful 
ally in the spring diet of his customers. With the 
coming of warm weather various "greens" were avail- 
Effects ^t)^e ^"<^^ were eagerly sought after. Sorrel pies, wild 
of the onions and dandelions came from the prairies and 
Spring were added promptly to the food supply. The cows, 
^^®t which because of their starved condition had been dry 
all winter, became fresh and milk was available. The 
few hens in the barnyard added worms, insects and 
tender grass to their diet and began to lay eggs. The 
garden came on and fresh vegetables were abundant 
and were eaten with a relish which can be appreciated 
only by one who has for a period been semi-starved. 
The tired feeling disappeared about this time, but the 
regular spring remedies had been taken, and the 
beneficial results of better diet were wrongly attrib- 
uted to the efficacy of drugs. 

14 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



The diet of rat No. 1 consisted from weaning time 
of bolted wheat fiour 20, degerminated cornmeal 10, 
cooked and dried potato 30, peas 10, navy beans 10, 
beets 5, turnips 5, and cooked and dried beefsteak 10 
per cent. 

When photographed it was 308 days old. The 
life of the domestic rat is about 3 years, and this 
animal corresponded approximately in age to a man 




of 28 or 30 years. Note the small size, thin hair, and 
general old and miserable appearance. This diet 
afforded wide variety, has an appropriate chemical 
composition insofar as analysis could show, was pal- 
atable, and included only natural food products of 
recognized wholesomeness, and from both animal and 
vegetable sources. Notwithstanding these facts the 
nutrition of a group of animals restricted to this food 
supply was very faulty. 

Rat No. 2 was the same age as the one above, and 
had been fed on the same diet from weaning time, 

15 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

except for one modification; its diet consisted of 
bolted wheat flour 20, degerminated cornmeal 10, po- 
tato 24, peas 8, navy beans 8, turnips 5, beets 5, beef- 
steak 10, and dry whole milk (Merrill-Soule Com- 
pany) 10 per cent. 

The addition of milk to the diet of rat No. 2 shown 
in the picture made the difference which is illustrated 
by the photographs. The one which received the 




milk was youthful, vigorous, and much larger than 
the one receiving the same food without it. 

It is only within the last four or five years that 

anyone could say what constitutes a satisfactory diet, 

New ^ut we now know definitely that the regular diet of 

Knowledge a large portion of the people of the United States is 

<*^ falling short of maintaining satisfactory nutrition. 

Our knowledge of nutrition has been gained wholly 

by experiments on animals. The information thus 

gained has enabled us to study the quality of the 

16 



Nutrition 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

dietaries used by man in a manner which would 
otherwise have been impossible. The effects of dif- 
ferent kinds of diets on man can best be understood 
by an illustration of the effects of certain combina- 
tions of foods on animals. 

It has been found impossible to nourish laboratory 
animals satisfactorily on any diet which is derived 
entirely from cereals (wheat, oats, corn, rice) and 
other seeds; tubers such as the potato, edible roots 
such as sweet potato, turnip or beet, together with 
meats which are derived from the muscle tissue of r^^y^^^^ 
animals (ham, steak, etc.). Even when fed a diet Roots and 
containing wheat flour, corn meal, peas, beans, po- Meats Not 
tato, turnip, beet and round steak, young animals Sufficient 
have always failed to grow to more than two-thirds 
of their normal adult size, and they grew more slowly 
than they were capable of growing. They produced 
but few if any young, and almost never succeeded 
in keeping the few which they have produced alive 
through the nursing period. Before animals which 
were fed on this diet were more than a quarter 
through the normal span of life of well fed individ- 
uals, they were rough looking and thin haired. The 
skin was rough and dry, and they had all the appear- 
ances of extreme old age and were ready to die by 
the time they were a third through the span of life 
normal to the species. 

The same diet with a liberal supply of milk add- 
ed produced a remarkable contrast in a similar group 
of animals fed at the same time. This is well illus- 
trated by the appearance of one of the animals from 
each group. (See pp. 15-16) The above described diet ^^^.\!^^^^ 
of cereals, peas, beans, tubers, roots and meat is also ^^^^j Green 
remarkably improved by the addition of such leaves vegetables 
as celery tops, spinach, cabbage, turnip tops and 
other green vegetables. It is obvious from these re- 
sults that there is some remarkable difference be- 

17 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

tween the dietary properties of leaves or of milk as 
contrasted with any of the ordinary seeds, tubers, 
roots and lean meat which are so commonly used as 
food for man and animals. By appropriate experi- 
ments it has been possible to determine wherein this 
superiority of milk and leaf lies. 

It has been learned that the proteins of the cereals 
and of beans and peas, tubers and edible roots are of 
rather poor quality because they do not yield suffi- 
cient amounts of certain of the simple digestion 
products which are formed in the stomach and intes- 
Proteins tine. Thesc digestion products are the building 
Have Little stones of which the muscle tissues are made during 
Value growth. Unless the right kinds with respect to size 
and shape are furnished by the food proteins the exact 
pattern on which the muscle must be constructed 
cannot be formed, and in this case growth is inter- 
fered with. 

It has long been known that several mineral ele- 
ments such as those in common salt, lime, phosphorus, 
iron, etc., must be furnished by the food. It was not 
appreciated until recently, however, that many of 
our commonest food-stuffs do not contain enough of 
Mineral certain of these, especially lime, to meet the require- 
Saits Very i-i-iej-,|^s Qf ^ rapidly growing young animal. Seeds, 
mpor an ^^^j^^^-^^ roots and lean meat are all poor in lime, and 
the milling products of wheat, corn and rice are also 
very poor in iron and phosphorus. Animals have 
been found to be surprisingly sensitive to a shortage 
of any one of the mineral elements which are indis- 
pensible, and are seriously injured if allowed to go 
with too small a supply. 

During the last few years it has been discovered 
that there are three substances of remarkable interest 
which the diet must supply, which were not suspected 
to exist until recently. They are remarkable in the 
fact that but a surprisingly small amount of each is 

18 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

necessary to meet the needs of an animal, but even 

the small amounts which cannot be dispensed with 

are not present in many foods. One of these will 

not take the place of another. All must be supplied. Newly 

When one or another of these three substances is pp''®*^*'**^ 

11- • p • 1 1 • • 1 Dietary 

absent from the diet, or is furnished in inadequate Essentials 
amount, there results a peculiar disease. There are 
three of them, and they have come to be called "de- 
ficiency diseases." Each is the result of the lack of 
a single substance. These interesting food units have 
been given an unfortunate number of names. They 
have been called vitamines, accessory food sub- 
stances, fat-soluble A, water-soluble B, water-soluble 
C, etc. No less than twenty-five variations in the 
nomenclature of the three have come to the attention 
of the authors. A brief account of the so-called defi- 
ciency diseases follows. 

SCURVY. This is a disease due to faulty diet. 
It has ceased to be common in recent times, and 
is now met with chiefly in babies who are 
not properly fed. Occasional cases are met 
among Arctic explorers, and the disease is 
common among prospectors in Alaska. It was 
very common among sailors in the 16th and 17th F^uit 
centuries, because of the very poor quality of the diet r"*^^^^" 
which was furnished them on ship-board. Scurvy is vegetables 
l)revented, and when not too far advanced can be Prevent 
cured by eating fresh vegetables generally. Orange Scurvy 
juice, lime juice and lemon juice, fresh cabbage, raw 
potato, onions and tomatoes enjoy the special repu- 
tation of being of exceptional value in the prevention 
and cure of the disease. Scurvy is a very serious 
disease. The teeth become loose and the gums 
spongy. The latter bleed easily and the capillary 
blood vessels in the skin on various parts of the body 
rupture and cause hemorrhages in spots. The patient 
suffers great pain and weakness. The disease is liable 

19 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

to develop in anyone who lives. for several months 
exclusively on cooked, canned and dried foods, no 
matter how abundant the diet or the extent of its 
variety. This is illustrated by the serious outbreak 
among the British troops in Mesopotamia in the great 
war. 

Scurvy is easily prevented by the inclusion in the 
diet of moderate amounts of fresh, unheated fruits or 
vegetables, or by using raw milk. Considering the 
number of people who derive almost all their food 
supply from wheat flour, corn meal, rolled oats. 
Diets Which breakfast cereals, beans, peas, potatoes and meats. 
Produce all of which have been thoroughly heated, it seems 
Scurvy j-^ther remarkable that this disease is not more com- 
mon than it is. It seems probable that many people 
come very close to the minimum intake of the pro- 
tective substance for scurvy (the antiscorbutic sub- 
stance) which allows them to escape having the dis- 
ease by a narrow margin. The above list of foods 
may be supplemented by canned milk, cooked cab- 
bage, butter or butter substitute, molasses, prunes, 
raisins, canned fruits, cheese, macaroni, crackers and 
canned foods of almost any description, and yet the 
diet will contain so little of the antiscorbutic sub- 
stance that a person who adheres to it for several 
weeks or months will be in danger of developing 
scurvy, although he may just escape. The occasional 
outbreak of this disease in garrisons, prisons and be- 
sieged armies illustrates this fact. Those who will 
take the trouble to learn how very great a part of 
the total food supply of many employed persons is 
derived from the list of foods just given; foods which 
the grocer can handle without danger of loss because 
they are marketed in a nearly non-perishable condi- 
tion, must realize how narrow is the margin of safety 
against scurvy in such cases. The purchase of some 
fruit such as apples, pears, peaches, oranges, bananas 

20 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

to be taken raw, or the use of raw tomatoes, lettuce, 
celery, nuts, etc., in salads, cabbage to be eaten as 
cold slaw, cantaloupe, etc., is economy in the interest 
of health. They serve a specific purpose which is 
important because of our modern food habits. 

XEROPHTHALMIA (Pronounced ze-rof-thal- 
mia) of a certain type is an eye disease due to faulty 
diet. The substance which protects against it is not ^^ 
abundant in any of our ordinary foods except in but- Disease 
ter and egg yolk. It is associated with the fats in caused by 
these foods, but strange to say it does not occur in Faulty 
any of the vegetable fats or oils. It is less abundant ^*®^ 
in the leaves of plants, but is found nowhere else 
among our ordinary food-stuflfs in sufficient amounts 
to meet the needs of either a growing child or an 
adult. 

In this deficiency disease the eyes become in- 
flamed, the lids swollen, even to an extent which 
prevents their being opened. The coats of the eyeball 
frequently rupture, and the contents of the eye are Butter, 
expelled. Blindness will result in a short time if the ^^t^^i^" 
diet is wholly lacking in the protective substance. It 
is relieved in its early stages in a very spectacular 
manner by feeding butter, cream, egg yolk, such 
glandular organs of animals as liver and kidney, and 
likewise by the liberal use of leafy vegetables. Al- 
though this disease has not been at all common in 
this country, at least fifteen hundred cases have been 
observed in Japan, and sixty in Denmark. In Japan 
the diet of the children consisted too largely of cereal 
foods, and in Denmark the trouble was confined to 
infants and young children who were fed exclusively 
on separator skimmed milk. Many of these children 
promptly recovered when given whole milk, or cream 
mixtures. Blindness due to malnutrition appears to 
have resulted frequently among children in some 
parts of Europe devasted by the war. 

21 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

Several reports are to be found in the medical 
literature of a condition called night-blindness, which 
afflicts men living in lumber camps and elsev^here 
v^hose diets are limited to a short list of foods such 
as wheat flour, beans, meat, tea and coffee, with only 
occasionally other additions. This condition is com- 
Night mon in Newfoundland, where a large part of the sea- 
Blindness faring population restrict themselves to the simple 
diet just mentioned. It seems highly probable that 
this condition represents the beginning of the disease 
which we are discussing. The common remedy for 
it in lumber camps is drinking of milk or the con- 
sumption of cheese. This new discovery in nutrition 
emphasizes the importance of including dairy prod- 
ucts in the diet. Milk is the cheapest and most effi- 
cient food for supplying the substance which protects 
against this type of malnutrition. 

BERI-BERI is a deficiency disease which occurs 
widely distributed over the world. It occurs most 
frequently in the Orient, especially among the poorer 
classes whose diet is very simple and monotonous. 
Beri-beri It afflicts especially those who eat polished rice as 
the chief cereal, and who make the remainder of their 
diet largely fish or meat. It is common in Laborador 
and Newfoundland and among people who eat little 
else than wheat bread made from bolted flour, fish 
and salt meats, tea, and occasionally duff with raisins. 
The disease is common in South America among 
natives and groups of laborers who are fed by their 
employers principally on staple, non-perishable cereal 
products and meat. 

The principal manifestation of beri-beri is a gen- 
eral paralysis. Animal experimentation has demon- 
strated that the only foods which are entirely lacking 
in the substance which protects against this type of 
malnutrition are polished rice, starch, sugar, glucose 
and the fats and oils from both animal and vegetable 

22 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

sources. Bolted wheat flour, degerminated corn 
meal, certain breakfast cereals, macaroni, spaghetti, 
tapioca, hominy made by the present commercial 
process, steak, ham and other cuts of meat which 
come from muscle tissue, fish and fowl muscle, are 
all very poor sources of the substance which protects 
against this disease. Ordinary cooking, or heating 
sufficient to preserve foods in canning does not great- 
ly decrease their value with respect to this protective 
substance. Beans, peas, raw and cooked vegetables 
of all kinds, milk, eggs and fruits are all good sources 
of this food complex. 

It should be emphasized that the faulty character 
of the various articles mentioned above in connection 
with the prevention or cure of any of the deficiency 
diseases, does not indicate that these are not good 
and wholesome foods, and does not indicate that they Safe to Use 
should not enter into the diet of man as they have Faulty Foods 
done in the past. These foods which are deficient in J?^^'^^^^. 
one or another respect, form our staple articles of ^.j^^^^^ 
diet. Many of them are among our most important 
agricultural crops and we should continue to make 
use of them freely. The thing to be kept in mind is 
that nearly all of our common foods are deficient in 
some degree in one or more respects, but that the 
shortcomings are not the same in different classes of 
foods, so that by using suitable combinations which 
supplement each other in the proper manner, highly 
satisfactory diets can be secured. 

We should avoid the use of diets which, while not 
sufficiently faulty to produce a condition which can 
be recognized as a breakdown of the type of one or 
another of the so-called deficiency diseases, may yet 
be so faulty as to bring the individual into a state of 
chronic nutritional instability. There can be no doubt 
that such a condition is common at the present time, 
and in providing a list of menus for the entire year, 

23 



Faulty Diet 

and Chronic 

Nutritional 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

such as is listed in later pages of this book, the object 
is to do away with such a danger. Avoidance of 
error in the selection of foods which will properly 
supplement each other so as to insure good nutrition, 
demands a somewhat extensive knowledge of the 

NUiricionai . . , ^ . . i c . i i- i-j. 

Instability prmciplcs of nutrition, and of the peculiar quality 
with respect to each of the several dietary factors 
of each of the articles which enter into the day's 
ration. Such knowledge cannot, for some time, if 
ever, become familiar to every housewife. Even if 
she possessed it, in order to be successful she should 
have to give a degree of attention to the planning of 
each meal which would be a burdensome task. 

RICKETS appears not to be a deficiency disease 
in the same sense that scurvy, xerophthalmia and 
beri-beri are, but it is directly the result of faulty nu- 
trition in young children. Starvation for lime salts is 
one of the predisposing factors, but a poorly consti- 
tuted diet aggravates the tendency toward the devel- 
opment of this distressing condition. Faulty bone 
Rickets g"^^wth is the most noticeable feature of the disease. 
Causes Heated milk, which includes canned milk and boiled 
Faulty Bone milk, if fed to an infant continuously for a consider- 
Growth able period will place the child in jeopardy, and the 
danger is increased by liberal feeding with cereal 
foods. Many babies doubtless escape an attack of 
rickets when confined to a faulty diet, merely by rea- 
son of escaping acute digestive disturbances which 
may be caused by dirty milk. The disturbances of 
digestive function so frequently caused by unclean 
food, weaken the child and interfere with its nutri- 
tion to an extent w^hich turns the balance against it. 



24 



Man Can 
Live on 
Animal 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Chapter III. 

The Relation of Faulty Nutrition To Early Loss 

Of Youth 

It is possible for man to live exclusively on a diet 
of flesh, and indeed the Eskimo subsists almost ex- 
clusively on food of animal origin. He could not live 
on steak and ham as his sole food supply however. 
The secret of his success, such as it is, lies in the use 
of blood, bone marrov^, the glandular organs and the Tissues 
soft bones of frozen fish, along with muscle tissue Alone 
and a large amount of fat. Studies on laboratory 
animals have clearly established the fact that only 
by such dietary habits can the carnivorous diet suc- 
ceed, but while such a food supply may sustain life, 
it is not satisfactory in promoting good nutrition. 
It is characteristic of all exclusive flesh eaters, both 
men and animals, that they are active, aggressive 
and persevering only when hungry. When they have 
been fed they become lethargic and dull. Dr. Gren- 
fell says in his book on Labrador, that the Eskimo 
will not catch one fish while a white fisherman will 
catch ten. 

It is now definitely established that there are but 
two kinds of diets suitable for people in regions 
where agriculture is possible, which are satisfactory 
for the maintenance of health and vigor over a long 
period, viz. : those which contain either milk or the 
leafy vegetables in suitable amounts. (*) Since there 
are certain deficiencies from the dietary standpoint 
in all seeds, tubers, roots and lean meats, and it is 
necessary to add to any assortment of these, either 
milk or the leaf of some plant, in order to make them 

(*)For an extended account of the results of nutrition studies with 
animals and their bearing on the nutrition of man, the reader is re- 
ferred to The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition, by E. V. McCollum, 
The Macmillan Company, New York, 1918. . 

25 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

dietetically complete, we have designated milk and 
The the leafy vegetables the protective foods. To some 
Protective extent eggs may also be regarded as a protective food, 
Foods ^^^ ^^g.^ ^^^ ^^^ g^ good a source of lime. 

In the light of such experimental data obtained 
v^ith animals it is interesting to note that a menu 
of veal cutlets, boiled or baked potatoes, buttered 
peas, gelatin salad, bread, butter or a substitute for 
it, mince pie and coffee, would be recognized by the 
average family as a satisfactory dinner. This menu 
is derived entirely from a meat representing muscle 
tissue; a tuber, potato; a legume seed, pea; gelatin, 
a protein from meat or bone; a cereal, bread; meat 
and fruit from which mince meat is prepared and a fat, 
butter or a substitute made from animal or vegetable 
fats. Such a diet cannot be regarded as satisfactory 
for the maintenance of health, although it complies 
with the older standards of chemical composition 
Faulty which wcrc supposed to be adequate as a basis of 
Menus judgment. We now know that it is necessary to 
ommon ^^^i^^ ^^j. selection of foods from certain sources, as 
well as to be sure that the diet contains enough of all 
the substances which we know how to estimate chemi- 
cally, in order to have it complete. It is a simple mat- 
ter to modify the above menu so as to greatly improve 
its value. If breaded cutlets (dressed with egg and 
bread crumbs), mashed potatoes to which milk is 
added, creamed peas, gelatin salad, bread and butter 
and caramel custard are substituted, the meal would 
not differ appreciably in attractiveness and palata- 
bility from the former, yet it would be decidedly 
superior to it for the maintenance of health. 

It is well known to those who have inquired into 
the matter, that there are thousands of American 
families who are using little or no milk, and who eat 
practically no green vegetable other than an oc- 
casional serving of cabbage. We in America have 

26 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

developed a system of diet which is fairly good in by 
far the greater number of homes throughout the land, 
because nearly or quite enough milk and its products 
are used. In most instances, however, the diet would no^ Enough 
be further improved by the use of more milk, and MUk is 
nearly every family in the land is taking far less green Used 
vegetables than it should. In many of the large cities 
the consumption of milk per person averages less than 
a pint a day. Since all children in families where 
intelligent care is given them are furnished about a 
pint and a half or more each per day, and a consider- 
able number of adults in good homes take a similar 
amount, it must be true that many homes use little or 
no milk regularly. Direct inquiry has shown this to 
be the case. 

Green vegetables, generally speaking, are very ex- 
pensive, as are also fruits. To some extent the ex- 
cellent dehydrated products now available could be 
used to great advantage and doubtless will be as soon 
as the public learns how highly the processes of 
dehydration, with the preservation of the appetizing 
qualities of the fresh articles, have been perfected. 
At present fruits are eaten but sparingly in many ^eafy 
households because of their cost. They are highly jj^^^ 
desirable for the reasons which have been discussed. Remarkable 
It is certain that the food supply now commonly used Value 
in thousands of households would not support any 
species of animal in a state of health over a very great 
fraction of its span of life. There is much direct evi- 
dence that such diets as are now common do not 
maintain health and vigor in adult human beings, 
much less do they lead to normal development in a 
growing child. 

In considering the effects of a diet which is more 
or less faulty, but of sufficiently good quality to pre- 
vent its evil effects from becoming promptly notice- 
able, we must take into account the life history of the 

27 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Effects of 
Faulty Diet 



Baby Should 
Be Nursed 



individual. In experimental animals it is found that 
such diets as do not contain the protective foods lead 
to early aging and short life, and that the life is 
ordinarily terminated by diseases such as tuberculosis 
or pneumonia. The animals may appear to be in 
fairly good condition for wrecks or months, according 
to the length of life of which the species is capable, 
but their lives are terminated at a quarter, a third or 
a half of the span which they might reach if they were 
well nourished. A period of debility precedes death, 
and when the vitality reaches a certain low level they 
become the prey of infections which carry them off. 
The effects of faulty diet are present before they can 
be recognized by any outward sign. Nervousness 
and irritability are many times the first noticeable 
symptoms, and following these the poor condition of 
the skin and hair attract attention. In all these re- 
spects we have the counterparts in man. 

A typical life history of an individual may be some- 
what as follows : In infancy it is nursed for a short 
time, but because the mother does not have an ade- 
quate milk supply or on account of the inconvenience 
of nursing, the child is placed on bottle feeding. For 
a time it thrives on cow's milk, but is accidently given 
a bottle of stale or dirty milk, which causes an at- 
tack of indigestion followed by diarrhea. A physician 
takes it off of a milk diet, substituting a cereal water 
for a few days, then gradually replaces the latter by 
milk and the infant begins to grow again and is ap- 
parently normal. The milk is, however, frequently 
not clean and fresh, and the baby suffers more or less 
from indigestion, is fretful and does not get enough 
rest and sleep because of its discomfort, and accord- 
ingly does not grow as fast as it should for consider- 
able periods. Its delicate digestive apparatus is more 
or less debihtated by irritation from unwholesome 
decomposition caused by the action of certain kinds 

28 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



of bacteria which should never have been allowed to 
enter it. Its capacity to digest and absorb food is 
lowered, and the child may suffer from a slight attack 
of rickets which result in its legs being somewhat 
crooked in later life. As it grows older and is given 
eggs and fruit and cereal with its milk it develops 
better, but is always somewhat under weight, a little 
pale and not so energetic as it should be. When just 
out of infancy many children are allowed to eat meat, 
and too much sugar or syrup. Sometimes, because of 
being given milk which is stale and bad flavored they 
form a distaste for it, and are allowed to go without 
it. No effort is made to cultivate a liking for spinach, 
cabbage or other green leafy vegetables, and the re- 
sult of one or all of these abuses is an under nourished 
child. 

After passing out of infancy the child may be 
allowed to continue the faulty eating habits just de- 
scribed, and in addition, to eat between meals and 
so spoil its appetite when it comes to the table. Meats 
and sweets are eaten entirely too freely, and the re- 
mainder of the diet may consist largely of bread and 
butter and potatoes. Such eating habits fail to make 
the child develop normally at a time when the perm- 
anant teeth are forming, and the foundation of life- 
long dental troubles are laid. We have become so 
accustomed to see children whose physical develop- 
ment is distinctly below what it should be that as a 
rule parents do not feel a sense of guilt for a condition 
in their children which is wholly the result of their 
own neglect of duty. To be sure it is the result of 
ignorance, or indifference, but the outcome of their 
failure to meet their obligation is, nevertheless, a life- 
long tragedy for their offspring. 

The housing together of a large number of chil- 
dren in the schools exposes them to colds, and all the 
common children's diseases, and makes it practically 

29 



Babies Are 
Often 
Injured by 
Improper 
Feeding 



Wrong 

Eating 

Habits in 

Children 

Cause 

Injury 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Hygienic 
Conditions 

Are Also 
Important 



More 

Attention 

Given to 

Proper 

Feeding of 

Farm 

Animals 

Than to 

Children 



certain that all will have measles, whooping-cough, 
chicken-pox, mumps, and repeated colds of a con- 
tagious nature. These could be greatly reduced if 
greater attention were given to preventing the at- 
tendance of school by sick children, but at present 
there seems little hope of greatly reducing this men- 
ace to the health of the child. All diseases are a 
menace to future health, and add to the probability 
that the tonsils may become infected, or that catarrhal 
conditions of the nose and throat may become estab- 
lished, or that tuberculosis may be contracted. 
Sleeping in closed rooms and lack of fresh air and 
exercise during the winter months all tend to debil- 
itate the child, and to render it less capable in later 
life than it might have been. 

In the better class of American homes a sufficient 
amount of milk, eggs and ice cream, and of fruits and 
vegetables are used to make it possible for children 
to grow up to what appears to the average observer 
a fairly normal physical condition, because our stan- 
dards of what constitutes normality are low. Such 
standards are in general what we are accustomed to, 
rather than standards based on a careful considera- 
tion of what can be realized. It is high time that 
every mother should know as much about feeding her 
family as the thousands of successful farmers now 
know about feeding live-stock. In the barnyard the 
money factor has been sufficient to cause reform, but 
too many mothers are giving a large amount of 
thought and time as well as labor to solving the 
problem of dressing themselves and their children 
attractively, while leaving their physical development 
entirely to chance. Physical vigor is the fundamental 
basis of health, enjoyment, achievement and long life, 
and every consideration should be subordinated to 
securing it. 

30 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

At the period of life between fifteen and thirty 
years of age, most people enjoy their best health. The 
powers of resistance and the capacity to digest food 
are greatest at this time. Freedom from illness and 
the ability to recover promptly from the effects of loss 
of sleep or of fatigue foster the idea that various 
violations of the laws of hygiene and nutrition are 
matters of little importance. Young people over eat 
of any palatable food and eat at irregular intervals, 
with so little evidence of any unfavorable effects that 
they see no reason for giving any thought to habits 
of right living. But as all persons advanced in years 
know, this happy freedom from accountability for 
violation of the laws of health does not last many 
years in most cases. 

Most people past thirty begin to realize that they 
cannot do certain things without discomfort, which 
formerly they did not notice. The man of thirty to 
forty years who is engaged in some occupation which 
affords little opportunity for exercise in the open air 
generally becomes aware that his digestion is not so 
good as it once was, and that he does not have his 
former energy. For years meat, bread and potatoes 
have formed the bulk of his diet, other things being 
secondary and irregular additions. Meat is good and Many Lose 
he has eaten it freely and regularly. At first he at- too^Ear/v***^ 
tributes his failure to dispose of his food as he 
formerly did solely to lack of exercise, and he begins 
to walk to his work or at least part of the way, when 
formerly he rode. His physical condition is on his 
mind more or less daily, and he talks to an acquaint- 
ance with whom he falls into company on his way to 
work, about how he is walking to keep himself fit. 
This change does benefit him, but there is still some- 
thing wrong with his feelings and digestion, and he 
begins to eat more sparingly. This seems for a time 
to be all that is necessary to keep him in a state of 

31 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

well-being. But his hair grows thinner, until an un- 
mistakable bald spot appears. His skin shows 
wrinkles. If his ancestors were fat his waist measure 
increases ; if they were thin he grows more shadowy, 
and if his digestion is more impaired, assumes the 
mien of the dyspeptic. In either case he thinks daily 
of his physical condition, and there is a growing 
tendency for him to keep conscious of the manner in 
which his digestive apparatus is disposing of its last 
installment of food. He notices that little things ir- 
ritate him, which formerly he would not have ob- 
served. He would not admit that his health is failing, 
yet he takes up golf, or cultivates a garden because 
he feels better as a result. Months or even years may 
go by with little noticeable change in his condition. 
Yet the tendency to introspection is there, and at 
forty-five he seeks additional life insurance, and to his 
surprise is refused. 

He now begins to take notice of the "How to keep 
well" advice in the newspaper, and peruses the adver- 
tisements of books on health. His future course de- 
pends in great measure on the kind of literature on 
diet which he reads. He may try thorough mastica- 
tion, which someone recommends as a panacea for all 
ailments due to faulty nutrition. He chews each 
morsel until his deglutition mechanism automatically 
snatches it from his control. He announces that this 
new discovery benefits him greatly, but nevertheless, 
quietly discontinues the practice after a time. 

He may learn from his reading that a low protein 
. diet makes for health and efficiency, and that the best 

Protein ,,r •• i- i- i • r 

Diet method of attammg this end is to abstain from meat. 
He tries it and feels better for a time, but his appetite 
gets the better of him and he cannot refrain occa- 
sionally from eating meat. He may be over abstem- 
ious and actually eat too little food. He comes to 

32 



The Low 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

depend on the frequent use of cathartics for rehef 
from constipation. 

There are other systems of diet which men or 
women in the condition so common in middle Hfe 
may adopt in seeking relief from discomfort and fail- 
ing powers. Vegetarianism; the fruit and nut diet; 
the adoption of whole wheat bread instead of white is^^and^"' 
flour bread; the two meal a day regime; lacto-vege- other 
tarianism and sour milk therapy, are examples. All Systems 
work a change for the better for a time when the of Diet 
subject before had been a hearty meat eater, and had 
adhered largely to the meat, bread and potato type 
of diet. Of these lacto-vegetarianism, or the use of 
a vegetable diet along with milk and eggs is, in the 
light of modern knowledge, decidedly superior for 
the promotion of health to any of the others. It is 
especially good when liberal amounts (as much as 
a quart a day per person) of milk and of green leafy 
vegetables are used. " 

In order to appreciate how so many different die- 
tary practices may all lead to partial relief from the 
sense of ill-being which the middle aged person so 
frequently feels as the result of taking for years a 
diet not satisfactorily selected and rich in meat, it 
is necessary to understand the general behavior of 
the digestive tract, and how faulty habits lead to 
its debility. 

In the intestine of the young infant, when it is 
in a healthy condition, and is nursed by its mother, 
there is no putrefaction with the formation of the 
unwholesome decomposition products of proteins so 
common in the adult. The sugar of milk is peculiar- 
ly suited to serve as the carbohydrate supply in the 
nutrition of the infant, because it is not fermented 
readily. Cane sugar leads to gas formation in many 
cases because it is so readily fermented. Milk sugar 
encourages the development of a variety of bacteria 

33 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

in the intestine, which forms small amounts of lactic 
acid. This keeps the condition in the digestive tract 
acid and tends greatly to keep down the putrefactive 
Putrefaction organisms. When an infant is fed stale milk, or other 
t^stin* food not suited to it, and an attack of indigestion 
follows, the intestine is usually seeded with bacteria 
of forms which are dangerous to health. It is then 
placed in a very disadvantageous position with re- 
spect to its nutrition. The diarrheal discharges show 
by their odor that they are full of foul products. The 
highly irritating nature of these is apparent from 
the manner in which the skin of the buttocks is red- 
dened and inflamed by coming into contact with them. 
It may not be doubted that the irritation of the lining 
membrane of the intestine, which is more delicate 
than the skin, is even greater than the latter. 

Aside from the injury to the lining membrane of 
the intestine, the child is burdened with the intoxi- 
cation which results from absorption of the poisons. 
Injury Due When it finally returns to health after such an attack 
to Intestinal ^^^ jUness as is causcd by dirtv milk, is it just as well 

Intoxication rr ■, • n • r t • r •' ^ ^ 1 j -^ 

oiT physically as if the infection had never happened: 
There can be but one answer to this question: No. 
An injury of this kind leaves permanent effects on 
all the tissues of the body. The intestinal wall is 
never quite so capable of protecting itself against in- 
vasion by bacteria in later life as it would have been 
if it had never been subjected to the injury. During 
such attacks the liver and kidneys are bathed with 
blood which contains poisonous substances, and they 
are ever afterward a little less capable of performing 
their vital functions than they would otherwise have 
been. The results of illness are cumulative, and the 
oftener illness is repeated the less vigorous will be 
the body's defensive power. The lowered vitality 
caused by one infection increases the liability to some 
other infection. Influenza prepares the body for 

34 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

pneumonia. Small-pox does not itself take the life 
of its victim, but it makes possible the invasion of 
the tissues by a streptococcus which does. Measles 
are very frequently followed by infections to which, 
previous to the attack, the body was immune. 

Nearly all children who are not nursed in infancy 
suffer from one or more attacks of intestinal infec- 
tions which lay the foundation of ill health in later 
life. Once the digestive tract of the infant is seeded 
with pernicious types of organisms by feeding it 
dirty milk, it never returns to a condition where the 
intestine is as clean and hygienic as it was before. 
Failure to nurse infants, and carelessness in feeding The 
them milk which is not clean, lay the foundations ^""!^^".!^^"^ 

r IT- 1-1 1 '1 r 1 -111 1 , Fed Chud 

of a life in which the period of youth will be short, j^ ^^ ^ 
Many children both in infancy and childhood are Disad- 
allowed to suffer from constipation more or less reg- vantage 
ularly. This neglect in many cases lays the founda- 
tion of lifelong suffering. Irritation of the intestine 
always results from long contact with decomposing 
fecal matter. The habit of emptying the bowel but 
once a day is regarded by medical men everywhere 
as an artificially established practice which produces 
bad effects on health. It schools the intestine to har- 
bor its contents without protest, and destroys its 
capacity to functionate. The seriousness of this mat- Evil 
ter will be appreciated by almost everyone from per- Effects of 
sonal experience, and from the knowledge that the *^"* *^^ ***" 
habit of taking cathartics is an all but universal prac- 
tice among adults. Cathartics act because they irri- 
tate, and they steadily work damage on the intestine. 
Another factor in establishing chronic indigestion 
and malnutrition is the habit of eating at stated times 
irrespective of the need of food. The active and the Overeating 
sedentary sit down to eat at the same time, and the 
interval between meals is adjusted to the needs of 
the former. The prevalence of double chins and 

35 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

triple necks attests the fact that many are eating far 
more than their actual food requirements. Unfor- 
tunately the appetite is not a safe protector, especially 
when tempted by attractive dishes, and many eat 
when the digestive tract is not prepared to handle 
food. The term digestive tract is used intentionally, 
because of the widespread misapprehension as to the 
scat of the trouble in indigestion. Discomfort which 
is referred to the stomach is in most cases the mani- 
festation of abnormal conditions in the intestine. 

When food or drink is taken into the stomach the 
contractions which are set up in swallowing tend to 
continue throughout the entire length of the alimen- 
Muscuiar ^"^^y ^^'^^^- Inimediatclv after eating is, therefore, a 
Activity favorable time to reinforce these contractions which 
of the tend to grow more feeble as they pass away from the 
Intestine stomacli. A couscious effort at this time will gen- 
erally lead to the large intestine emptying itself. It 
is possible to train the intestine so as to have a con- 
siderable amount of control over it. Nearly everyone 
ignores this opportunity and allows it to pass. The 
result is that the intestine is forced to harbor decom- 
posing food residues which keep it in an unhygienic 
state for many hours longer than is necessary. 

In a well person there is a prompt response by the 
stomach with secretion of a digestive juice which is 
strongly acid when food is taken, even though there 
The Overfed ^^,^g j^^ scnsc of actual hunger at the beginning of 
the meal. The response is much less vigorous, how- 
ever, than it is when there is a genuine desire for 
food. In the confirmed dyspeptic or the neurasthenic, 
there may be no such response, and food may lie for 
a long time in the stomacli without digestion, and in 
a condition favorable to bacterial growth. Gas may 
be formed and cause discomfort, or the food may 
after a time be passed on into the intestine, when 
undergoing bacteriological decomposition. In other 

36 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

cases, stomach digestion may be nearly normal, and 
the growth of bacteria develop only after the partly 
digested material has reached the lower intestine. 

Dr. Alvarez has recently reported very interesting 
studies which show that in many instances of pro- 
fuse gas production and its regurgitation, the gas 
does not form in the stomach, but in the lower intes- perUitaUic 
tine. The intestine reverses the direction of its run- Action 
ning waves of contraction so as to bring the contents 
of the lower bowel back toward the stomach. This 
condition arises when there is an irritating mass in 
the lower intestine. Hie regurgitation of gas, and 
the contents of the intestine causes nausea and belch- 
ing. Bile is forced from the intestine back into the 
stomach, and some of it comes up with the gas, caus- 
ing the bitter taste. This condition is a typical "bil- 
ious attack." It is not due to sluggishness of the 
liver as is popularly supposed, but to an abnormal 
nervous reaction which reverses the direction in 
which the intestine moves its contents. Its inciting 
cause is an unhygienic condition of the intestine. 

During profuse gas formation in tlie intestine, 
loops are filled so tightly as to form kinks which pre- 
vent its escape, and this results in pain. The tension 
may reach a point which seriously interferes with the 
circulation of blood through the intestinal wall. The '"J"^y 
wall sometimes becomes so inflamed that the outer intestine 
surface becomes pasty and may adhere to adjacent by Food 
parts forming permanent adhesions. The surgeon Decompo- 
frequently sees such adhesions in his operations. '*'**^" 
They greatly interfere with the action of the intes- 
tine and hurry the patient on toward invalidism. 

The weight of the fecal matter in the intestine 
is frequently so great as to cause a sagging out of 
normal position, because the tone of the abused mus- 
cles is lost. Prolonged distension of the stomach or 
intestine sometimes causes permanent dilitation and 

37 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Effects of 
Contem- 
plating 
Digestive 
Function 



partial loss of function. Pressure of the distended 
stomach on the heart frequently leads people to be- 
lieve that they have heart trouble. 

Chronic indigestion causes the cultivation of the 
habit of centering the attention of the sufferer on the 
manner in which his digestive apparatus is disposing 
of its last meal. All impulses which are transmitted 
from the brain to the digestive tract have, unfor- 
tunately, a tendency to depress its normal muscular 
activity, and its secretion and absorption. It is a 
common saying that a well person never knows that 
he has a heart or a stomach. There are outlying sta- 
tions of the nervous system called ganglia, whose 
business it is to take care of the secretion and mus- 
cular activity of the alimentary tract automatically, 
and thinking of one's digestion profoundly interferes 
with their functioning. It is a grave mistake to keep 
thinking of how digestion is proceeding, in the fear 
that some morsel which has been eaten may not agree 
with one. The wholesome effects of pleasant company 
during meals helps to keep the brain from interfer- 
ing with normal digestion. 

Such a habit of self observation often leads one to 
try to establish which article in his last meal is re- 
sponsible for his misery. He lays the blame on one 
and decides that it does not agree with him and avoids 
it in future. As one attack of indigestion follows 
another, he gradually eliminates one food after an- 
other as dangerous to him. In time he forgets earlier 
experiences and eats without distress foods which 
had been under ban, and gradually goes the rounds 
of condemning a series of perfectly wholesome foods. 

The conditions described represent the extremes, 
but are no more serious than thousands which are 
regularly observed by the medical profession. For- 
tunate are they who are protected from infancy from 
debilitating influences in nutrition and who adhere 

38 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

to a type of diet which approximates the optimum, 
and is of such a character as to discourage over-eat- 
ing. 

There are many adults, however, who have been 
well brought up, and reach middle life with good 
vigor, but who fall into the practice of taking too 
much of their food in the form of meat, bread, pota- 
toes and sugar. These and other articles made from 
wheat flour, as macaroni, crackers, etc. ; other seed gread and 
products, such as peas, beans, rice and oats, make up potato Type 
altogether too large a share of the total food supply of Diet is 
and are not supplemented with a suftici.ent amount of Faulty 
milk, eggs and the green, leafy vegetables to correct 
their deficiencies. The result is that while they have 
enough to eat, its quality is poor, and the blood 
stream is nearly always more or less impoverished 
with respect to one or more substances which are in- 
dispensable to complete the list necessary for the nor- 
mal nutrition of the tissues of the body. Animals 
confined to such diets grow old rapidly even when 
the diet is of a composition which satisfies the food 
chemist, but is not so selected as to contain a suffi- 
cient amount of the protective foods. It seems neces- 
sary to interpret the rapid increase in the develop- 
ment of the so-called old age diseases, hardening of 
the arteries, kidney and heart degeneration, during 
the last thirty years, as in great measure the outcome 
of changed dietary habits, whose significance would 
never have become appreciated but for animal experi- 
mentation. 

Professor Folin of Harvard University has shown 
in a very interesting way the degree to which by 
middle life the kidneys of the normal man or woman 
lose their capacity to perform their function of elim- 
inating the waste products of metabolism into the 
urine. He has refined methods for the analysis of 
the normal constituents of the urine, so as to be able 

39 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

to determine their amounts in very small samples of 
the blood. An examination of the amounts of these 
waste products of the life processes which are circu- 
impairment lating in the blood of healthy young medical students, 
of Kidney ^j^^j ^f ^ jjj^g number of apparently healthy adults of 
with Afie ^^o^^t forty years of age showed that about half of 
the latter were carrying about thirty per cent more 
substances in their blood which should have been ex- 
creted by the kidneys into the urine. There appears 
to be in many apparently normal persons, a progres- 
sive decrease in the capacity of the kidneys to carry 
on their work of freeing the blood of waste products. 
The lesson which we should learn from such facts is 
the imperative need of taking from infancy up such 
a diet as will defer the onset of the changes charac- 
teristic of aging. 

While it is never too late to gain by right living, 
the time to begin to follow the principles laid down 
Importance by scientific research in nutrition is at birth. Anyone 
*d H^*h-^*^ who will adhere to the simple principles now well 
Throughout established as the best way to select the food supply 
Life cannot fail to add years of usefulness and happiness 
to his life. The opportunity of the mother to guide 
her family along right lines of living is one which she 
should fully appreciate, and is worthy of her best ef- 
forts. 

Major McKay has reported extensive observations 
on the nutrition of the natives of India, which afford 
a remarkable confirmation of the fact that the prin- 
ciples of diet outlined here are correct, and apply to 
human nutrition. Among the numerous peoples of 
India there are found groups who differ most widely 
in their dietary habits either from force of circum- 
stances or from religious motives. In the crowded 
districts of Bengal, where there are about nine hun- 
dred people to the square mile, the natives are largely 
grain eaters, rice being the principal cereal. Other 

40 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

vegetable food is eaten so far as it is available, and 
animal food is craved but the supply is inadequate. 
The physical condition of the Bengalese is almost 
without exception miserably poor. In the eastern dis- ^^^ ^^®^ 
tricts of Bengal, where the diet is largely confined ^^^Tthe 
to cereals, beans and fish, the physical condition of Hindus 
the natives is better than among the more nearly 
strict vegetarians. They are, however, still very in- 
ferior to the hill tribes of Tibet and other people who 
keep fiocks and herds and use large amounts of milk 
in addition to vegetable foods and meat. Those who 
would attribute this difference in development to cli- 
mate must explain why the Arabs who live so largely 
on soured milk of camels, mares or cows, have from 
time immemorial, while living in a climate where in 
summer the temperature daily reaches a hundred de- 
grees or higher, had both the physical power and the 
courage to journey over the long and wearying car- 
avan routes of the deserts. 

While the data furnished by Major McKay is not 
so complete as is desirable, it points definitely to the 
conclusion that a cereal and meat diet, even when it 
furnishes considerable variety, falls short of the 
value which it would have if dairy products were 
added in liberal amounts. 

It is significant that the reports of British officers Experience 
to their government on the fitness of the natives of with Indian 
the several parts of India for military service show Soldiers 
that the vegetarian Bengalese are regarded as_unfit, 
and they are no longer used for recruiting the native 
army. The pastoral tribes, who use large amounts 
of milk regularly in their diet, are commended in the 
highest terms, as respects their physical fitness, cour- 
age and moral standards. 

The children of Bengal are described by McKay 
as poor, miserable, pot-bellied little creatures with 

41 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



The Diet 

and 

Pellagra 



Better 

Selection 

of Food 

Essential 



little joy in their lives, while the children of the hill 
tribes are well developed and happy-looking. 

Dr. Goldberger and his associates in the U. S. 
Public Health Service have made elaborate studies 
of the diets of the people of certain parts of the South 
where a disease known as pellagra is common. This 
distressing malady, which was not recognized until 
1908, now afiflicts about 170,000 people. It seems 
almost certain that it is a contagious disease, but that 
faulty diet is the chief predisposing cause. The well 
fed do not have it. Those who live during the win- 
ter on a food supply limited essentially to bolted 
wheat flour, degerminated corn meal, polished rice, 
starch, sugar, molasses and fat pork, and take little 
or no milk or leafy vegetables, furnish the victims 
of this dreaded disease in the spring when their vi- 
tality is low. Such a diet seems to make them sus- 
ceptible to infection. Good feeding with a diet in 
which milk, eggs and green vegetables are abundant 
will cure those who have pellagra in its early stages. 
An extensive survey of the diets of pellagrous and 
non-pellagrous households in three villages in North 
Carolina showed that the greater the extent to which 
milk entered into the food supply, the less was the 
incidence of pellagra. 

From the foregoing considerations we may safely 
conclude that there is a very real need for a better 
selection of food than is now practiced in many house- 
holds in America and elsewhere. It is not sufficient 
that we secure enough protein and energy to cover 
the body's requirements. There are several factors 
of great importance for the promotion of vitality and 
health which may not be left to chance in the plan- 
ning of the family diet. 

The child who is fed a properly constituted diet 
at every meal-time, every day of its life, will grow 
up with physical possibilities for future health and 

42 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Outward 
Signs 
of Mal- 



achievement and happiness greater than one who is 
left to the haphazard regime so common in the 
American home. It seems certain that a part of the 
time the digestion products which reach the blood 
stream and hence the tissues of the body, fail to sup- 
ply everything which is needed for its well-being, nutrftion 
Outward signs may be long in appearing, but even slow in 
where the faults of the diet are no more serious than Appearing 
are frequently met with even in the homes of the 
well-to-do, they will be reflected in later life in low- 
ered vitality, early aging and low resistance to infec- 
tions such as tuberculosis. 



43 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Chapter IV. 



Foods" 
Necessary 



THE DIETARY PROPERTIES OF THE MORE 
IMPORTANT AMERICAN FOOD-STUFFS 

In the preceding chapter it was pointed out that 
diets may be derived from both animal and vegetable 
foods, and afford considerable variety, and still fail 
to induce good nutrition unless they are properly se- 
"Projective lected. Diets derived solely from w^heat flour, corn 
meal, rice, rolled oats, potatoes, sweet potatoes, rad- 
ish, turnip, beet, and the lean muscle meats, all taken 
together, will prove inadequate. It is true that growth 
may take place on such diets, and apparent health 
may be enjoyed for a certain period, but they fall 
short of the optimum quality after which we should 
strive. Only those diets which contain one, or prefer- 
ably both, of the protective foods, milk and the leafy 
vegetables, have ever maintained animals in a state 
of nutrition which promotes vigor and preserves the 
appearance of youth and sustains longevity. In the 
present chapter the most important human foods are 
discussed with respect to their dietary properties, 
and their special qualities made clear, in order that 
it may be appreciated why certain combinations of 
foods make good each others deficiencies. 

THE CEREAL GRAINS. The most important 
food grain in Europe and America is wheat. Its most 
important use is as a bread grain, because when 
mixed with water, wheat flour forms a better dough 
than can be obtained with flour from rye, barley or 
Wheat buckwheat. The custom of eating as a part of every 
meal the spongy white bread made from bolted flour 
has a very strong hold upon us. All will remember 
the little hardship of giving up white bread for war 
breads for patriotic reasons. 

44 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

The flour which was sold before the war, and to 
which the millers promptly returned as soon as re- 
strictions were removed, contains about seventy- 
three per cent of the entire wheat kernel. The parts 
discarded in milling are used as stock feeds. Bran 
is the outer layer of the grain. Middlings, or shorts, 
contain fine particles of bran and some flour which white Flour 
adheres to them through the milling process. The 
germ of the seed is also separated in milling, but is 
afterwards mixed with the jiiiddlings because there 
has never been established a market for this very rich 
fat and protein-containing portion. The white flour 
which is used as human food is the part of the grain 
which breaks readily into particles sufficiently fine to 
pass through bolting cloth. 

The modern milling process differs markedly from 
the old process in use when milling was a local indus- 
try, and people who lived in the vicinity of the mill 
brought their grain and took home the flour. MiUing 
in earHer times consisted in grinding the grains and 
sifting out the coarse particles of bran, but the mod- 
ern process is carried out with machinery which does 
not grind. Instead, the kernels are passed between 
rollers which break them by impact. This method 
of breaking the grains does not tear the bran or the 
germ. Because of the large size of the bran particles. Modem 
or skin of the kernel, they are easily screened out. Milling 
The germ consists of a group of cells which in the 
unbroken seed are capable of developing into a new 
plantlet. It contains much oil, sugar and protein, and 
is suf^ciently plastic to escape being reduced to fine 
particles in the process of breaking to which the 
wheat grain is subjected in the roller mill. Since the 
germ remains intact it is, like the bran, easily re- 
moved from the flour. White flour represents the 
part of the kernel which is very rich in starch and 
gluten (protein) and which crushes so readily under 

45 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Proteins 

of the 

Wheat 

Kernel 



the blows of the rollers as to make its particles fine 
enough to pass through bolting cloth, hence the name 
bolted flour. 

There are great differences in the nutritive value 
of the proteins of the different parts of the wheat 
kernel. The proteins of the germ are of better qual- 
ity than those of other parts, but the germ is not 
suitable for human food because the oil seems to have 
slightly detrimental properties. Bran is not a good 
human food because it is too coarse and irritating 
to the digestive tract. The proteins of bolted flour 
are among the poorer proteins which enter into the 
diet of man. This does not constitute a sufficient 
reason for regarding flour as an inferior food, because 
when used in proper combinations with other foods 
the proteins of the flour are supplemented so as to 
greatly enhance their value. 

Our attachment to light bread made from bolted 
flour is based on habit. We have been schooled from 
infancy to the regular use of a light, leavened bread, 
and the trade has cultivated a demand for perfectly 
white flour for purely commercial reasons. Whole 
wheat flour does not make so attractive a loaf as does 
White Bread bolted flour, but there is just as little reason for our 
basis o'f judgment as to what is attractive in bread 
as there is for our standards as to what constitutes 
beauty in dress. Both are based entirely on custom. 

Bran is now widely employed as a remedy for the 
correction of constipation. Its action depends on its 
irritating nature, and on the greatly increased bulk 
which it confers on the residues of food which escape 
Bran absorption in the intestine. It cannot be denied that 
much relief is experienced by many persons from 
taking bran, but the same object can be attained by 
an extension of the use of such vegetables as spinach, 
cabbage and other related plants, also turnips, beets, 
radishes, onions, carrots, etc., and the latter are to 

46 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

be recommended rather than bran, because they are 
less irritating, and possess valuable food properties 
in addition. 

Not only is bolted flour a source of proteins of 
poor quality, but it is very poor in those mineral 
elements which are essential constituents of the nor- 
mal diet. The most important deficiency in this re- Quality of 
spect, because of its limited content in other foods, Protemsof 

• 1 • iU -1 4.- 4- i r 1- T-> A Wheat Flour 

IS calcmm, the prmcipal constituent of hme. Bread 
falls far short, therefore, of furnishing sufficient min- 
eral salts for the nutrition of the body. 

Bolted w^heat flour is very poor in the substances 
which protect the body against the three types of 
deficiency diseases, scurvy, beri-beri and xerophthal- 
mia. The entire wheat kernel contains a sufficient 
amount of the second one of these, and perhaps Bolted Flour 
enough of the first named, actually to prevent the Poor in the 
development of scurvy over a long" period, but does Substances 

4. ( • u ^ ' C rZ. J A • c Which 

not lurnish a great margm of safety. Juagmg from p^eyen^ 
such data as is available the entire kernel falls some- "Deficiency 
what short of containing enough of the protective Diseases" 
substance without which the eye disease, xerophthal- 
mia develops. 

Bread is, therefore, a very incomplete food. It 
is, notwithstanding its shortcomings, a good food 
provided it is combined with the proper food-stuffs 
to make it complete, and the^ statements made to its 
discredit are not to be construed as a justification for 
seeking some substitute for it. Wheat is one of our 
best agricultural crops and we should continue to use 
it freely, but with a full understanding of what should 
be eaten with it. 

It is logical to ask the question why the poorest 
part of the wheat kernel is placed on the market as 
human food. The question has been frequently dis- 
cussed and usually without a full appreciation of all 
the factors which are involved. Whole wheat flour 

47 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

Poorest Part is superior as a food to bolted flour provided the bread 

of Wheat made from it is to be used as the sole food for a con- 

as^Human siderable period, as has happened and may happen 

Food again under conditions approaching famine. This 

fact is, however, of little importance in ordinary times, 

when a variety of foods are available, for either kind 

of flour is incomplete from the dietary standpoint and 

will not long support health when used alone. 

The reason for the manufacture of bolted flour is 

purely a commercial one. The unbroken wheat kernel 

can be kept for a long period without undergoing 

changes which affect its food value, but when it is 

milled, either by the old grinding process or by the 

more complex roller mill process, it soon undergoes 

changes which make it less palatable. The fats in 

Reason for the germ decompose and spoil the flavor, and the 

Manufact- presence of the germ in the flour encourages the 

* ^V^i development of worms and weevils, which render 
of Bolted . ^^ . , . , ,^, . ' ., . , 

Flour it unht for human food. 1 his can be stnkmgly 

demonstrated by anyone by a simple experiment. 
If some bolted flour is placed in a container, and 
some fresh wheat germ in another, and the two are 
loosely covered and kept in a warm room ,for a few 
weeks, the germ will be found to be alive with insects, 
while the flour will be almost free from them. The 
insects which infest cereals place their eggs almost 
entirely in the germ, and this part most closely ap- 
proximates a complete food for the larvae. 

All flour is now milled in a few centers princi- 
pallyl near the wheat growing regions. The by- 
products are used as stock foods in those regions 
with but short shipping radius. The flour must ac- 
cordingly be shipped long distances in many cases, 
and a comparatively long period must elapse between 
its manufacture and consumption. Up to 1917 the 
average period between milling and marketing to the 
consumer was about six months. Some flour is in 

48 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

the hands of the dealer for a much longer time, and doited 
it is greatly to his advantage to handle a product ^eiV ^*^* 
which can be marketed without commercial hazard. 
Hence the perfection of milling machinery which ef- 
fectively separates both germ and bran. 

There are several competing interests in the mill- 
ing industry, and their most effective appeal to the 
housewife is the whiteness of the flour. We naturally 
associate whiteness with purity in flour, as with gar- 
ments, walls and furniture; hence arose the practice 
of bleaching flour which is not naturally as white as 
was desired. There is no justification for the demand 
for white flour by the public. It has been created The 
artificially for commercial reasons. whiteness 

•' of Flour 

It is not easy to prepare so light and attractive a 
loaf of bread from flour which contains a higher frac- 
tion of the entire kernel than the 73 per cent now 
usually converted into flour. Whole wheat flour has 
a distinct flavor not possessed by the bolted product. White Flour 
but its use in baking requires special skill which must Lighter 
be acquired. Loaf 

It is not probable that whole wheat flour will ever 
become widely used for the reasons just stated. There 
seems to be no good reason why the use of white flour 
should be discouraged. The present practice in mill- 
ing returns over a quarter of the grain to the farm 
as cattle feed, and avoids danger of loss in the dis- 
tribution of that part which is used for human con- 
sumption. The important fact to be appreciated is 
not the difference in the food value of whole wheat 
and ordinary flour, a difference which is decidedly Whole 
in favor of the former, but that the entire wheat ker- ^Xow: 
nel is itself not a complete food. Many of our nat- 
ural foods are incomplete, even when not manipulated 

49 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

or changed in any way. The watchword of modern 
scientific nutrition is proper selection of foods and 
their consumption in the most desirable combina- 
tions. 

CORN OR MAIZE. This is the second seed grain 
in importance in the United States. It is very popu- 
lar in the Southern states as a bread grain and is used 
more or less widely in other parts of the country. 
The meal which results from its milling does not 
make a dough when mixed w4th water, and therefore 
Corn Bread a leavened bread cannot be made from it. When 
properly made corn bread is highly attractive to those 
who are accustomed to it, but like new foods in gen- 
eral, it does not appeal to those who have not learned 
to like it. The French and English did not like it 
during the war when they were forced to use it, but 
this was in a great measure due to their lack of knowl- 
edge of how to use corn. 

The dietary properties of corn are closely similar 
to those of wheat. The difference in the appeal to 
The the palate is due entirely to differences in physical 
Dietary properties. Fifty years ago corn, like wheat, was 
of Corn "billed by grinding in small local mills, and the re- 
sulting meal contained the entire kernel. In order 
to meet modern commercial demands it has become 
necessary to produce a meal which will not change 
flavor w^ith aging, and will not favor the development 
of weevils in warm weather. This can best be ac- 
complished by the removal of the germ, and accord- 
ingly machinery has been perfected which accom- 
plishes this. The germ is sold as hominy feed for 
stock, and the cornmeal retailed for human consump- 
tion is a degerminated product. The oil is extracted 
from the germ and is used for various technical pur- 

50 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

poses and is now sold in retail packages as a salad 
oil. The proteins and mineral content as well as the 
energy value of corn meal correspond very closely 
with the corresponding values for wheat flour. 

THE OAT. The oat kernel is largely used as a 
breakfast food, and to a lesser extent for making 
cookies and for other purposes. It is sold almost 
exclusively in the form of rolled oats, and differs 
considerably from wheat and corn in its chemical TheOat 
composition. It contains nearly a third more protein kernel 
than either of these and about 8 per cent of fat; the 
content of the latter in corn and wheat being about 
2.1 and 5.0 per cent respectively. The quality of the 
proteins of the oat are about the same as those of 
the other cereals, and it contains no dietary proper- 
ties which serve to distinguish it greatly from any 
of these. Up to very recently it was not found pos- 
sible to remove the germ from the oat, but the desire 
to improve its keeping qualities has led to the per- 
fection of a machine which turns the husked kernel 
end over end on a rough surface, thus etching away 
the germ which is exposed on one end. 

RICE — This cereal forms the most prominent 
article of diet of more than half of the human race, 
but its use is largely confined to Asia and the islands 
of the Pacific. It has never found great favor in the Rice 
United States, although it is widely used everywhere 
as an occasional addition to the bill of fare. We 
prefer the potato instead of rice as our main starchy 
food other than wheat bread. Those who are 
brought up on rice like it better than potatoes or 
wheat bread. 

In many places where rice is grown it is eaten 
without polishing, but when it is to be transported it 
is almost always polished, primarily for the purpose Unpolished 
of improving its keeping qualities. This is ac- ^^^^ 
complished by friction of the kernels against each 

51 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

other. In polishing, the bran layer and the germ are 
both removed and the grain is made lighter in color. 
Polished rice is poorer in protein, mineral elements 
and fat, than any other of the cereal grains. 

Since the dietary deficiencies of polished rice have 
been poin 2d out repeatedly in popular literature in 
recent years, some manufacturers have made an effort 
to counteract public suspicion of the value of their 
product in a w^ay w^hich is calculated to decive. Just 
as it has become generally known that bolted wheat 
flour is not so complete as whole wheat, so it has be- 
come common knowledge that during polishing some 
of the valuable parts of the rice kernel are lost. This 
has attracted much attention because people who eat 
unpolished rice do not develop the disease beri-beri, 
while those who live largely on polished rice may do 
and White ^°- ^^ order to ofTsct the suspicions regarding the 
Rice market product, a so-called brown rice has been ad- 
vertised and substituted for white rice on the market. 

In order to intensify the whiteness of polished rice 
it has long been the custom to coat the polished grains 
with talcum powder. The powder is mixed with a 
solution of glucose, which causes it to stick to the 
surface, and after the grains have been moistened 
with this suspension, they are dried. Rice which has 
been treated in this way can be readily detected, since 
the water in which it is washed becomes milky from 
the suspended talcum powder. This coated product 
is white rice. It has been both polished and coated. 
The so-called brown rice is polished rice which has 
received no further treatment. 

There is no reason whatever for whitening rice 

because it keeps just as well without it, but since it is 

Use of customary to wash the grains before cooking there is 

Polished uo reason for condemning it. Brown rice has no 

Rice Is superiority over white rice, and both have the same 

Rational dietary properties, and are inferior to the unpolished. 

53 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

The latter is not a complete food by itself. The ra- 
tional policy is to continue the use of polished rice, 
since there are good reasons why, when it is to enter 
commerce, with an uncertainty as to when it will be 
consumed, it should have the highest possible keeping 
qualities. In those localities where this cereal is 
grown and sold locally, it would doubtless oe best to 
select the unpolished article. This is '"kewise true 
for all people who^like many Orientals, live so largely 
on rice. 

OTHER GRAINS— Many experimental studies Barley and 
have shown that the cereal grains resemble each other ^® 
very closely in their dietary properties. Barley and 
rye closely resemble wheat in that a dough can be 
made from them, but this property is less pronounced 
than in wheat because in them the amount of glutin- 
ous protein is less. 

BUCKWHEAT— Buckwheat forms a very sticky 
dough, and is widely used in Asia, Europe and 
America, for making griddle cakes. These have a 
dark and somewhat violet color, and a flavor which 
has made buckwheat cakes a national dish. It has 
been frequently observed that persons who have eaten 
freely of buckwheat developed "buckwheat itch." 
This is due to the fact that there is a dye in the seed 
which sensitizes the body to light. Albino animals 
which have been fed with buckwheat and are subse- 
quently exposed to sunlight die within a short time, 
while animals which are colored are not affected. The 
sensitiveness of certain persons to this inconvenience 
following indulgence in buckwheat cakes is probably 
due to lack of suflicient pigment in the skin. 

PEAS AND BEANS— These, the legume seeds, 
enter into the diet of almost all peoples and are palat- ^j^ x ^ 
able and wholesome foods. There can be no doubt, 3^^^^ 
however, in the light of modern nutrition studies, 
that their dietary value has been greatly over rated. 

53 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

Their chemical composition as shown by analysis re- 
vealed a very high protein content. Before the days 
when it was known that there were great differences 
in the nutritive values of proteins from different 
sources, it was natural to suppose that peas and beans 
were in all essential respects the equivalent of meats 
as sources of protein. It was only discovered through 
experiments on animals which were restricted to one 
or the other of these seeds as their sole source of pro- 
tein, that the proteins of both are very inferior to 
those of meat. It is fallacious to regard beans as 
"the poor man's meat." 

The navy bean contains a considerable amount of 

certain peculiar carbohydrates which are not digest- 

TheNavy [\)\q^ but which readily undergo bacterial decomposi- 

®^" tion in the digestive tract, with the formation of much 

gas. As a result they tend to cause flatulence. Peas 

are not so subject to this type of fermentation. 

Beans and peas, while attractive in flavor to a cer- 
tain extent, fall far short of the platability of meats. 
In fact beans are usually cooked with meat to add to 
their acceptability. These facts are mentioned, not 
for the purpose of discouraging the use of peas and 
beans, but to make it clear that their place in the diet 
is distinctly a subordinate one. Used in moderation 
they form a valuable addition to the food supply, and 
help to afiford that variety which the palate of civilized 
man demands. With advancing knowledge they 
have, however, lost their once proud position of foods 
of extraordinary value. 

THE POTATO. This is in some respects unique 
as a vegetable food-stuft'. It is nearly without flavor, 
and lends itself to consumption with other things such 
The Potato as butter, cream or milk, salt and pepper or with fat. 
The appetite of man calls for fat and there are cer- 
tain foods which are eaten principally as a vehicle 
for carrying fat. The potato stands first in impor- 

54 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

tance among these. Some writers have attributed 
much greater nutritive value to the potato than ex- 
perimental studies on animals seem to justify. It is 
one of our most prolific food crops, and w^ill always 
remain one of our most important energy foods. It 
is indeed remarkable how regularly we accept the 
potato in one form or another, in contrast to the ease 
with which we surfeit on other similar vegetables 
such as turnip or beet or carrot, when these appear 
on the table daily for a time. We can eat much more 
liberally of the potato than any of these, and never 
tire of it as a daily article of diet. The lack of taste 
and individuality of the potato, which makes it pos- 
sible to confer palatability on it in several ways, seems 
to be the explanation for this. 

THE DASHEEN. This is a new vegetable which 
bids fair to take the place of the potato to some extent 
in some parts of the country. It is a large corm or 
bulb of a plant which grows well in some parts of 
the South, producing a large yield. It possesses a The Dasheen 
mild but distinctive flavor, and is served in essentially 
the same ways as the potato. Its dietary value is not 
essentially different from the latter. The Depart- 
ment of Agriculture has great expectations of this 
new food plant, and these seem to be well founded. 

THE SWEET POTATO. This root has found 
great favor in the warmer parts of the temperate 
zone. It contains much sugar as well as starch and 
is a most excellent food which remains acceptable The Sweet 
daily for long periods. Its place in the diet is essen- Potato 
tially the same as that of the white potato, i. e., it 
is a vehicle for fat and a source of energy because of 
its high content of starch and sugar. 

THE EDIBLE ROOTS. The most important 
edible roots other than the sweet potato in the tem- 
perate zones are the carrot, beet, turnip, and radish. 
These all deserve to be introduced into the diet more 

55 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

frequently than they now are. They, like the leafy 
Radish vegetables, are the best correctives for constipation, 
Turnip since they affect the eliminative function of the in- 
testine by modifying the residues so as to make them 
bulky and rich in water, but do not have irritating 
effects, as do bran or figs or berries which contain 
seeds in large numbers. This peculiar laxative effect 
is due to their high content of indigestible fibre, and 
its water-holding power. The edible roots appear to 
have no special dietary properties which distinguish 
them, or give them any special role to perform, except 
that mentioned, and their appetizing qualities, when 
not used too monotonously. Most people will tire of 
any one of them if they appear daily in the diet for 
a considerable time, but when they appear as a nov- 
elty after an absence of a short time they are greatly 
relished. The rotation of these in the menus of those 
months when they are in season will tend to dis- 
courage the tendency toward over-eating of the more 
concentrated foods. 

All of the above described food-stuffs have in the 
plant world the same functions to perform. They are 
all storage tissues of plants, and contain somewhere 
within them areas which are capable of growing into 
new plantlets under favorable conditions of temper- 
ature and moisture. The seeds grow from the germ ; 
the potato from the "eyes," and the fleshy roots from 
an area at the crown. Since the plantlet requires a 
food supply until it can develop a root system and 
leaves and become independent, the parent plant pro- 
vides this in the stored material within the seed, 
tuber or root. Man takes advantage of these con- 
centrated packages of food materials, and appropri- 
ates them for his food supply and for the feeding of 
his animals. 

Systematic studies have clearly shown that all of 
these plant parts which are store-houses for food for 

56 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

the little plants have certain shortcomings in common 
from the standpoint of animal and human nutrition. 
It is interesting to note that although there are very 
w^ide variations in the chemical composition, some, t,, e* 

. . ^ , ' . ' The Storage 

as the pea and bean, contamnig much protein and Tissues of 
little digestible carbohydrate, while others such as Plants 
the potato, contain much starch and but little protein, 
the dietary properties of all show striking similari- 
ties. They all contain too little of the element cal- 
cium, or lime, to meet the needs of a growing animal, 
and probably also of the adult. With few exceptions 
they are too poor in the peculiar substance which 
gives butter fat its special dietary properties, and 
without which a deficiency disease especially affect- 
ing the eyes will develop. In addition, the quality 
of their proteins is poor, and in a general way their 
proteins seem to have certain defects in common, so 
that when foods of this class are used together they 
do not greatly enhance each other's values. There 
are some exceptions to this rule, for some combina- 
tions within this group of storage tissue foods have 
distinctly better proteins than either constituent of 
the mixture when fed alone. 

FRUITS. Fruits and nuts are the most appetiz- 
ing of the vegetable foods. The fruits such as the 
apple, pear, peach, plum and the various berries and 
citrus fruits are so rich in water that they have but 
little value as sources of energy (starch, sugar, pro- special 
tein, fats). They all contain certain salts of organic value 
acids which have more or less stimulating action on 
the kidneys, and some of them have a laxative effect. 
This is augmented by the indigestible marc or struc- 
tural tissues which, like the fibrous structures of cer- 
tain other vegetable foods, tends to retain water in 
the intestine and produce physical properties in its 
contents which render them more easily eliminable. 

The fruits, and those vegetables which can be 

57 



The Fruits 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

eaten raw, have a special and very important role in 

nutrition, as a protection against scurvy. They are 

therefore more than simply w^ell flavored foods which 

Some Raw add to the joy of eating. They have an important 

Foods place in the nutrition of man and should be used in 

ecessary j^oderate amounts regularly, notwithstanding their 

relatively high cost. They contain nothing which 

disturbs digestion when eaten in the raw state, 

whereas all foods which contain much starch are 

more or less indigestible for man unless cooked. 

THE TOMATO. This deserves special mention 
because of its great popularity as a constituent of 
salads, as well as a source of flavor in soups, spa- 
ghetti, etc., and in the form of ketchup. It is a water- 
rich substance and does not furnish much actual food 
value, but is remarkable as a condimental food. The 
The Tomato tomato appears to occupy a unique position among 
Prevents vegetable foods in that the substance which protects 
Scurvy against scurvy, and which it contains in relative 
abundance, is not so easily destroyed in heating or 
drying as it is in most other foods. Because it is 
much cheaper than orange juice, Dr. Hess recom- 
mends tomato juice in small amounts as a means of 
preventing scurvy in infants which are fed on pas- 
teurized milk. It is reported that a small quantity 
of canned tomato will allay thirst for a time as effec- 
tively as fifteen times its volume of water. It was 
used for this purpose during the late war when the 
men were in positions where water could not be sup- 
. plied regularly. 

BANANAS. The banana, owing to its relative 
cheapness during a large part of the year, is a good 
fruit, and should be made use of in salads, or eaten as 
the appetite calls for it at any meal. Some find diffi- 
culty in digesting it unless it is fully ripe, for in the 
green and semi-ripe condition it contains considerable 
amounts of raw starch. Over ripe bananas do not 

58 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

have so good a flavor as they do a little earlier in the Bananas 
ripening stage. They are free from bacteria when p^°p** 
not invaded by organisms in the fruit as it begins to ^^ 
spoil, and may safely be given to children to satisfy 
their hunger w^hen they request food between meals. • 

THE LEAFY VEGETABLES. Modern nutri- 
tion studies have revealed the unsuspected fact that 
the leaf of the plant possesses dietary properties 
which chemical analysis does not reveal, and this 
class of vegetable foods have assumed a new and 
unique place in the human diet. Certain leaves form 
a complete food supply for such types of animals as 
have sufficiently capacious digestive tracts to enable Leafy 
them to eat a large quantity of bulky food. The om- vegetables 
niverous animals cannot thrive solely on leafy foods Are 
because they cannot eat enough of them. Neverthe- Protective 
less the liberal consumption of leafy vegetables serves 
to correct the deficiencies of the group of foods which 
have the function of storage organs in plants, and 
make it possible for man to do fairly well on a strictly 
vegetarian diet, at least for a considerable period. 
The importance of leafy vegetables as supplements 
to the cereals, peas, beans, tubers and edible roots is 
so great that one or another of those which are ac- 
ceptable to the human palate should enter into the 
diet every day in some form. 

The most important of the leafy vegetables which 
have sufficiently mild flavors to make them suitable 
for consumption by man are spinach, lettuce, cabbage, 
chard, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, collards, kale, T^^ ^^^ 
turnip and beet tops, dandelion, water cress, lambs- Leaves 
quarter, rape, and a few others. The onion bulb is 
a mass of thickened leaves. Their special virtues lie 
in the desirable composition of their mineral content; 
in their richness in the three substances which pro- 
tect against the deficiency diseases (See p. . . . ) ; in 
the way in which they supplement the deficiencies of 

59 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

the proteins of other vegetable foods, and in their 
corrective effects on constipation. They are especial- 
ly rich in iron, and in this particular respect take the 
place of the red meats. 

Leafy 

Foods When an animal is fed exclusively for a few weeks 

Supplement or months on a diet derived entirely from cereals, 

T, ?® *' peas, beans, tubers, roots and muscle cuts of meat, 

Tubers, ^ ', , , , ^ . 

Roots, and has been brought to a very poor state oi nutri- 
and Meats tion by this faulty diet, the prompt and marked im- 
provement in its condition which can be brought 
about by the addition of a liberal amount of such a 
leaf as celery tops, spinach or turnip tops, to the diet 
is unbelievable unless it is witnessed. It is unfor- 
tunate that these leafy foods are not so highly attrac- 
tive and palatable as to make their consumption in 
liberal amounts pleasurable to the average American. 
This is largely due to the fact that they have been 
used so sparingly in this country that the habit of 
eating them has never been formed to any great ex- 
tent. To many people in the South, where the use 
of turnip greens is very commonj they are highly 
relished, and form a veritable treat to those who 
have been for some time without them. One of the 
most important lessons which has been taught by 
scientific nutrition studies is the need of developing 
a liking for and a great increase in the consumption 
of this class of vegetables in the American family. 
Every conscientious mother should see to it that her 
children learn to like them in early childhood, and 
that they find a regular place in the diet as the chil- 
dren grow up. 
Chinese CHINESE CABBAGE is a variety which is much 
Cabbage superior to the ordinary variety with which we are 
the Ordinary familiar. It has been introduced into this country 
Kind by the Bureau of Plant Industry of the Department 
of Agriculture, and will doubtless eventually come 

60 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

into greater favor than the common kind. It is much 
more delicate in texture and flavor than ordinary 
cabbage, and makes a truly delicious salad plant. 

STRING BEANS AND ASPARAGUS are two immature 
delicious vegetable foods which almost everyone ^^^^^ 

11-1 1- and Growing 

likes and which possess much the same dietary prop- xips Have 
erties as leaves. While the bean is immature, and Dietary 
the pod consists of living tissues actively engaged in Properties 
the formation of the seeds, its quality as a food differs 
decidedly from the seeds after they have become 
mature and are eaten shelled. The use of beans in 
this stage of growth should become more common. 
They may be boiled and buttered, or creamed, or 
used as a constituent of salads. The tender rapidly 
growing tips of asparagus are rich in actively func- 
tioning cells, and resemble thick leaves in their die- 
tary properties. 

In China, Japan and other Oriental countries 
where there is no dairy industry, the practice of eat- 
ing large amounts of leafy vegetables is universal. 
The leaves of the sweet potato plant, the petals of the 
lily and bamboo sprouts are eaten as staple articles of g"^!^*^^ 1 
diet, along with numerous other leafy structures of Leafy Food 
plants. The good physical development of certain 
groups of Chinese appears to be attributable in great 
measure to this peculiarity in their eating habits. The 
consumption of green vegetables is the outstanding 
feature of their diet. These possess special qualities 
which differentiate them sharply from all other prod- 
ucts of the garden and we should greatly extend their 
use. 

Thick leaves such as those of the cabbage are not Thick Leaves 
only structures which contain living cells in relative Not So 
abundance, but they are modified as storage tissues 2??^^ 
as well and contain a large amount of starch and 
sugars. These tend to dilute the leaf quality, and 

61 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

renders the thick leaf less pronounced in its leaf qual- 
ity from the dietary standpoint than the thin leaves 
such as spinach, turnip tops, etc. 

MEATS. There is nothing so attractive to the 
appetite of man as certain of the meats to which he 
has become accustomed. All races are fond of meats, 
Dietary ^nd all eat animal tissues when they can be had, ex- 
of^sk^?mo ^^P^ ^ ^^^ religious devotees, most prominent among 
whom are the Buddhists. There are great variations 
among different races and individuals in their ideas 
as to what parts of the carcass of an animal are fit 
for food. The Eskimo likes blood as well as all of 
the internal organs, and because of the stimulation 
of his appetite by extreme cold, is able to eat large 
quantities of fat without anything with it to render 
its consumption easier. While the natives of the 
tropics and temperate regions of the world like fat, 
they always like to eat it with a carrier such as po- 
tato, sweet potato, cabbage, etc., to conceal it. 

The carniverous animals like the internal organs 
and blood better than they do muscle tissue, while 
the reverse is true of civilized man, who takes his 
The "^^^^ with a varied vegetable diet. When a rat or 
Carnivorous wcascl makes a raid on a chicken coop it kills indis- 
Animai crimiuatcly, and far beyond its needs for food. It 
cuts the throats of the birds and sucks blood as its 
first choice. Later it opens the body cavity and eats 
of the internal organs, or the brain cavity and eats 
nervous tissue. It is remarkable that civilized man 
should from choice limit himself largely to the cuts 
of meat which are derived from muscles. Steaks, 
ham and roast are distinctly his favorites, but whether 
solely from habit it is difficult to say. Liver is not 
valued highly, and only the choicest article from 
young animals is used when the appetite only need 
be consulted. Kidney stew is acceptable only occasion- 

63 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

ally and many will not eat it at all. It has not been Civilized 
found possible by the meat packers to educate the NotLike* 
public to eat the glandular organs to any great extent internal 
when they can afford muscle cuts of meat. It can- Organs 
not be because civilized man does not like highly 
flavored foods, for he eats his food with pepper, horse- 
radish, ketchups, salad dressings, strong sauces, sage, 
strongly flavored cheeses, acid foods such as pickled 
vegetables, and has an inordinate fondness for sweets. 
He does not in general like the strongly flavored 
animal organs. These illustrations of the varying 
habits and likings of man under different living con- 
ditions serve to emphasize the uncertainty of the ap- 
petite as a guide to the proper selection of food. 

It is not desirable to dispense with meats in the 
diet, for they fulfill a psychic requirement from which 
we cannot free ourselves. It is sound policy to eat 
foods which taste good, for taste and the enjoyment 
of food are indispensable to eflicient digestion. Ex- 
cessive meat eating certainly has, however, a damag- 
ing effect on the body. It is easily possible to arrange 
diets free from meat which will induce good nutrition, 
but very moderate amounts of meat certainly do no Consump- 
harm. Since the maintenance of an animal industry ****** 

, ^ . r t . i- . of Meats Is 

IS a necessary lactor m a successiul system of agri- Excessive 
culture, we shall always have a meat supply which 
should be used judiciously in the diet. It is agreed 
by all competent to judge that the consumption of 
meat by the average American household is excessive. 
High meat consumption is generally responsible for 
high protein consumption, and the abuse of meat has 
been the most important cause for the spread of the 
belief that man is better nourished and will be more 
eflicient if he takes a diet low in protein. Many peo- 
ple feel better when they stop eating meat, but this 

68 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

is due not so much to the fact that a proper amount 
of meat is bad, as to the inabihty of many to stop 
eating when they have had enough when meat forms 
a principal article of diet, because of its appeal to the 
appetite. 

It has been pointed out in the preceding chapter 
that the excessive growth of putrefactive bacteria in 
Meats Favor the large intestine is attended with disastrous results 
Putrefaction Q^[j^g ^q |.]^g toxic nature of the products which they 
Intestine form. These exert an irritating action on the lining 
of the intestine, and burden the liver and kidneys 
with their destruction and excretion. Among all the 
protein-rich foods there is none which encourages the 
growth of these pernicious organisms so much as 
meat. Thousands of persons past middle age, who 
have had time to become debilitated by faulty nutri- 
tion, testify to the relief from discomfort and in- 
creased efficiency which they experience as the result 
of partially or wholly eliminating meat from the diet. 

Although meat can safely be entirely dispensed 
with, provided the individual is willing to forego the 
satisfaction of eating it, the semi-invalid has not in- 
frequently subjected himself to a dietary regime so 
Meat Should monotonous and faulty as to hasten his demise. The 
Be Eaten cause of malnutrition is usually a complex one, and 
sparingly cannot in general be correctly attributed to one or 
another food, such as meat, which in too liberal 
amounts produces conditions in the alimentary tract 
which are unfavorable to health and comfort. The 
sanest view seems to be to reduce the meat consump- 
tion to the lowest level consistent with securing the 
degree of palatability which is demanded by the aver- 
age person, by reason of habits developed by our 
present mode of life. But this by itself is not enough. 
The diet must be selected so as to be complete, and 
to promote well-being. 

64 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

Meats contain proteins of high value in nutrition. Meats 
In other respects, however, they cannot be regarded jn^L^J^" 
as in any sense food of unusual merit. The mineral 
content is deficient in the same general way as that 
of the cereals, tubers and roots. It is especially poor 
in lime, but is unusually rich in phosphorus and iron, 
both of which are not very abundant in most grains 
or other storage tissues of plants. Muscle tissue con- 
tains but little of any of the three substances which 
are concerned with the prevention of the deficiency 
diseases, a fact which is rather surprising, but which 
is well established by experiments on animals. 

Meats contain excessive amounts of acid-forming Meats Are 
elements, and need to be properly combined with por^grs 
foods rich in bases of mineral nature to give best re- 
sults in nutrition. Meats do not correct the defi- 
ciencies of a diet composed otherwise of seeds, tubers 
and roots, except in the improvement in the quality 
of the protein. It is easy to correct all of these defi- 
ciencies by the liberal use of milk and green leafy 
vegetables, but the latter do not add to the attractive- 
ness of the diet in palatability as do meats. 

MILK. From time immemorial the milk of There is No 
cows, camels, buffaloes, goats, sheep and mares has f^J^^iik * 
been used throughout eastern Europe and parts of 
Asia as an important article of the diet of man. Mod- 
ern nutrition studies have shown that milk is the one 
food for which there is no effective substitute. Its 
use has extended over western Europe and NortTi 
America, and to most countries which have been 
settled by European peoples. 

In Europe and America, milk is ordinarily used Use of Milk 
fresh either as a beverage or in cookery, or frozen i" America 
with the addition of other substances as ice cream. ^*^^ Europe 
No pronounced bacterial changes are allowed to take 
place in it before use. Much is used for the manu- 

65 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

facture of butter, cream and cheese. The skim milk 
is generally used as food for calves and hogs, but 
much is thrown away. When cheese is manufactured 
the whey is usually poured into the gutter, but some 
is fed to pigs. The Laplander eats large amounts of 
reindeer milk, which is frozen in skins, and kept 
throughout the winter. 

The inhabitants of the steppes of European Rus- 
sia, and the plains of south, western and central Asia 
Fermented collect the milk of mares, and to a lesser extent that 
of cows, and add to it in skin bottles or in tubs, a 
portion of old, sour milk and some water and allow 
it to ferment. The fermentation is a mixed one and 
leads to the formation of much lactic acid which 
causes the sourness, but a considerable amount of 
alcohol is likewise formed. The curd is broken up 
by vigorous agitation and is allowed to stand several 
days before use. This product is known as koumiss. 
When cows' milk is used for this purpose it is first 
skimmed. Kephir is another kind of fermented prod- 
uct made from the milk of cows, goats and sheep, 
and is used universally in the Caucasus. It contains 
both lactic acid and alcohol. A similar product, 
matzoon, is made in Armenia. In India, in those 
parts suited to stock raising, a fermented milk known 
as dadhi is widely used, and a similar product, leben, 
forms an important article of diet with the Arabs, and 
was used by the Egyptians and Carthaginians from 
remote antiquity. 

Metchnikofif, the famous Russian bacteriologist, 
first pointed out that there were in his days a remark- 
able number of centenarians among the people of 
Organism Servia, Bulgaria and Roumania, and he sought to 
discover the secret of the long life of many of these 
people. He found that they live largely on a soured 
milk which they call yoghourt, and he came to the 
conclusion that the regular use of milk soured by a 

66 



The Sour 
Milk 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

special race of lactic-acid-forming bacteria to which 
he gave the name bacillus Bulgaricus, was in great 
measure responsible for their health and longevity. 
He explained this on the theory that the putrefactive 
decomposition of proteins in the intestine causes in- 
jury to the body because of the poisonous nature of 
the products formed and absorbed, and that the pres- 
ence of the organism which sours milk leads to the 
constant formation of a mild acidity in the intestine 
which is unfavorable to the growth of the more harm- 
ful forms which thrive in its absence. 

BACILLUS BULGARIOUS is a special race of 
milk-souring organism which produces a greater 
amount of acid than the more common ones; hence 
the assumption that it produces a more effective sour 
milk than milks which sour spontaneously every- 
where. Metchnikoff held that the organism had spe- 
cial vitality and could be made to establish itself in 
the intestine as a more or less persistent inhabitant. 
This view is not supported by the many studies which 
have been made by later observers. 

There has been much discussion and difference of 
opinion as to the importance of the lactic acid bacil- Sour Milk 
lus as a protector against the loss of youthful char- and Long 
acteristics in man. There can be no doubt that pas- 
toral peoples generally possess excellent physical 
development, and enjoy relative freedom from certain 
ailments common among peoples who live on diets 
of widely different natures. It seems, in the light of 
what we now know of the peculiar dietary properties 
of milk, wholly aside from the presence or absence of 
any special type of bacteria in it, that the excellent 
health of the aged natives of the Balkan states, as 
well as of other peoples who live largely on milk 
products, is the result of their regular consumption 
of a most excellent food supply, and not to the pres- 
ence of the bacteria which it may contain. It can- 

67 



Life 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

not be denied that the lactic acid fermentation of 
milk may be a factor of some importance, but this 
is secondary rather than primary. 
Milk a j^ jg ^ f^^|- ^QQ ^gjj known to need comment, that 
Food i^ilk is a complete food for a young, growing animal, 
and that for a certain period after birth, a period 
which varies with the species, no other food can take 
its place without disaster. It is not so well known 
that milk is a food of exceptional value for the adult, 
although a few medical men have fully appreciated 
this fact. Dr. Weir Mitchell many years ago had 
remarkable success in the treatment of patients suf- 
fering from neurasthenia, by keeping them in bed 
confined to a diet which was principally milk. It is 
of unusual interest to note that Harvey, the discov- 
erer of the circulation of the blood, in reporting on 
his autopsy of Thomas Parr, who is stated to have 
lived to the age of 153 years, says that his diet until 
just before his death when he was invited to the court 
of King Charles in 1635, consisted of sub-rancid 
cheese, and milk in every form, coarse bread and 
small drink, generally sour whey. 

Milk contains all the elements and compounds 
which are essential for the nutrition of the body, and 
Is Deficient ^^ especially rich in everything that is necessary to 
Only in Supplement the deficiencies of the ordinary cereal, 
Iron tuber and root products which form so large a part 
of the diet of civilized man. It is deficient only in 
iron. Its fat is the best source of the unidentified 
substance which protects against the deficiency dis- 
ease involving the eyes. This substance is not found 
in any vegetable fats or oils, and aside from butter 
fat is abundant only in egg yolk among our common 
food-stuffs. The glandular organs and the leaves of 
plants contain it in greater amounts than do any of 
the foods whose function is that of storage tissues 

68 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

of plants. Fresh, unheated milk contains the sub- ^*^^ 
stance which is protective against scurvy, but this o'the/F^ods* 
is nearly all destroyed during pasteurization or boil- 
ing. The substance w^hich protects against beri-beri 
is fairly abundant in milk and is not destroyed by or- 
dinary cooking. The proteins of milk are of very high 
quality. 

Milk is therefore so constituted as to make an 
ideal food for supplementing the ordinary vegetable 
foods which should form a considerable part of our 
diet. It corrects the deficiencies of these in a remark- 
able way. In order to obtain best results, however, 
it is best to use with the ordinary vegetable foods, 
but a small amount of meat, a quart of milk a day 
for each member of the family, and as much of one 
or another of the green leafy vegetables as the appe- 
tite will permit. The sugar of milk promotes, when 
such a diet is taken, the growth of a very favorable 
bacterial flora in the intestine. 

SKIM MILK is ordinarily looked upon as of little 
value, but as a matter of fact it is worth more than 
the cream from the standpoint of nutrition. The 
more extended use of skim milk in bread making, in 
cookery and as a sour milk beverage as is so common 
in Eastern Europe would be an important step in the 
direction of securing better nutrition for the nation. 

BUTTER MILK is milk from which the fat has 
been removed and from which the sugar has been Composition 
used up by lactic acid fermentation in the souring o^ Butter 
process. It is the milk which accompanies the fats 
as they are removed in the form of cream. Since it 
is milk less two of its constituents, fat and sugar, its 
dietary properties can be readily understood. It is 
not the equivalent of whole milk, but is a valuable 
addition to the diet, both from the standpoint of the 
addition of nutrients and for its appetizing quality. 

69 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 
Special BUTTER consists of the fat of the milk plus 

Value of . . 

Butter and ^bout twelve per cent of the constituents of milk not 
Egg Yolk fat. It has the same energy or fuel value as have 
Fats other fats of either animal or vegetable origin, but 
is greatly superior to any of those ordinarily used 
as food except the fats of egg yolk. It occupies a 
unique place in the diet of man as the principal source 
of a protective substance, the lack of which leads to 
a peculiar pathological condition of the eyes. Butter 
is not the equivalent of milk from the dietary stand- 
point. 

CHEESE made from whole milk contains most 
of the protein and fat and a large part of the lime 
of the milk from which it was made. It represents 
whole milk less the greater amount of its sugar, salts 
and a part of its protein. Cheese more nearly rep- 
Cheese Is a rescnts whole milk in its dietary value in respect to 
Condimentai j^gt those factors which are desirable for the improve- 
Food j^QYi^ Qf vegetable foods, than does any other man- 
ufactured product of milk. It is, however, essentially 
a condimentai food, and should not be eaten too 
freely for various reasons. It is an extremely con- 
centrated food and may induce indigestion if taken 
in liberal amounts. Its bacteriological condition is 
frequently decidedly undesirable in that there are 
present large numbers of spores of putrefactive bac- 
teria, which it is not well to introduce into the di- 
gestive tract unless it is in a very vigorous condition, 
and unless there are taken such other foods as tend 
to make an environment in the intestine which is un- 
favorable to their growth. The high degree of palata- 
bility of cheeses, especially the mild ones, makes their 
inclusion in the diet as an occasional constituent de- 
sirable. A liking for strong cheeses, which are actu- 
ally in a state of putrefaction, must be acquired, and 
is the parallel of the liking for tainted meats which 
is seen in some people. There are sound physiolog- 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



ical reasons against their use. Probably the best way 
to use cheese, especially for those whose digestion 
is not vigorous, is with macaroni or in a cream sauce, 
where it is heated before use, or toasted on crackers. 

ICE CREAM is one of the most attractive forms 
in which to serve milk, as well as one of the simplest 
from the standpoint of labor. Flavored and sweet- 
ened as it is, it has found great favor in the American 
home because of its palatability. The commercial 
ice cream business has reached enormous proportions, 
and the tendency seems to be growing to purchase it 
from a dealer instead of freezing it in the home be- 
cause of the trouble attending its preparation. It is 
easy to learn to operate an ice cream freezer and 
where fruits are available and cheap as they are on 
farms or in small villages these as well as milk and 
cream can be served in this most attractive form and 
with little expense. 

While there are doubtless many ice cream manu- 
facturers who maintain high standards, some have 
abused the confidence of their customers by re-freez- 
ing and selling cream which has been left over, and 
melted. Sometimes stale milk which is not in good 
bacteriological condition is worked off in the frozen 
condition, masked by flavors and sweetening. When 
the ice cream mixture is frozen it "swells," or in- 
creases greatly in volume. This is advantageous up 
to a certain point for a heavy ice cream is not so good, 
and an amount which is taken at one time into the 
mouth would be too cold to be eaten in comfort. This 
difficulty is obviated by extending the lightness of 
the product by stirring air into it so that a spoonful 
contains only about half as much substance as it ap- 
pears to contain. The swelling of ice cream during 
freezing is not to be regarded as unfair to the pur- 
chaser so long as the increase in volume is secured 
only for the purpose of making the product more pal- 

71 



Frozen 
Desserts 
Should Be 
Used 
Frequently 



Beware of 
Poor Ice 
Cream 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

Increase in atable, and of a more pleasing texture than it would 
Volume i^g j[£ -^ were more solid. Among unscrupulous deal- 
Freezing ^^^ ^^ sometimes happens, however, that the volume 
is made just as large as possible in order to make 
possible the sale of more quarts of cream from a given 
amount of materials. This constitutes a method of 
securing excessive profits on a food product. 

The fat content of ice cream varies greatly, and 
there is need of more uniform standards of composi- 
tion. The best creams may contain as much as eigh- 
Fat Content ^^^^^ P^r cent of butter fat. Perhaps more than half 
of Ice of the commercial ice cream does not contain more 
Cream than half this amount, and some samples of "hokey- 
pokey" ice creams which are sold to children in the 
poorer sections of cities have shown, on analysis, only 
two to four per cent of butter fat. Occasionally 
vegetable fats are put in instead of milk fat. This is 
aduleration. 

Cheap ice creams often contain large amounts of 

"fillers," consisting of cheaper materials such as corn- 

yse of starch or skim milk. Fortunately skim milk is the 

"Fillers niost common of these, and as has been stated, this 

part of the milk has a greater food value than the 

cream, although its palatability is lower. 

Within certain limits the intelligent adult will rec- 
ognize quality in ice cream, and would not continue 
to purchase from a dealer whose product is too fluffy, 
but there should be carefully regulated standards for 
the amount of "swell" which Ts permitted. This is 
necessary for the protection of children especially. 
The use of small amounts of gelatin or of gums 
Gelatin and to improve the texture of ice cream is not necessary, 
Gums where skill is employed in manufacture. Their use 
Frequently cannot be regarded as objectionable within ordinary 
®® limits. Gelatin is a food but cannot be used in very 
large amounts in ice cream without making it too 
stiff. 

72 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



The attractiveness of ice cream is so great that the 
poor children in large cities buy it in cones to a large 
extent rather than candy. This is probably respons- 
ible, in many cases, for the preservation of life in 
the case of children from homes where the diet 
consists of little more than bread, meat and tea or 
coffee. To be sure, in such homes the money could 
be much better spent for milk, since it w^ould be 
cheaper, and for the same price, more could be pur- 
chased, and the children's diet improved in greater 
degree. As a rule, how^ever, no milk v^ould be bought 
by such people because it does not appeal so strongly 
to the appetite, and the money is better spent for ice 
cream, liberally "filled" with skim milk, than for 
more bread or meat. The casual purchase of ice 
cream by poor children is therefore a matter of much 
greater importance than it might at first thought ap- 
pear to be. 

When ice cream is purchased, care should be taken 
to patronize the best manufacturers. By appreciat- 
ing their high standards, and showing that apprecia- 
tion, the abuses in the industry will be eliminated. 
The health department in every city should be able 
to advise the woman in the home concerning the most 
satisfactory dealers. It cannot be too often repeated 
that there is in every city an organization under the 
control of medical men and bacteriologists and chem- 
ists who are doing what they can to safe-guard the 
public interests in inspecting foods and market con- 
ditions. The public should appreciate them and aid 
them in their work, and in turn be aided by them. 

OLEOMARGARINE is made from various ani- 
mal and vegetable fats and is sold as a substitute for 
butter. It has become widely used because of its 
lower cost as compared with butter. It cannot be 
denied that vegetable and animal fats have a dietary 
value and are wholesom^e foods. They lack the pe- 

73 



The Ice 
Cream Cone 
Purchased 
by Poor 
Children 



Consult 
the Health 
Department 



Butter 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

culiar quality found in milk fats (butter) and egg 
yolk fats, however, and are not in every sense substi- 
tutes for butter. 

Since any diet v^hich is derived solely from seed 
products, tubers and meat, or other foods having the 
same dietary properties, will be deficient in at least 
two respects, and the same type of diet without meat 
will be deficient in three respects, it requires some- 
SubsHtutes thing more than butter to correct them. For this 
reason we advise the use of milk in liberal amounts. 
It is immaterial whether the milk be separated into 
its constituents and used as skim milk in cookery, 
cream, butter, cheese, etc., or as whole milk as a bev- 
erage. The important point is to secure the consump- 
tion of a sufBcient amount of all the constituents of 
milk. When this is accomplished in one way or an- 
other, it matters little what kind of fat one spreads on 
his bread. 

EGGS contain everything which the body needs 
for its development, but nevertheless need to be prop- 
erly combined with other foods. Like milk and the 
Dietary ^^^^7 vegetables eggs are to be regarded as additions 
Properties to the cereal, tuber and root portion of the food sup- 
of the Egg ply to improve its quality. They are to be classed 
with the protective foods, but lack two qualities of 
importance for which milk is remarkable. The portion 
of the egg after the shell is discarded, is not so rich 
in lime as it should be to supplement bread, cereals, 
potato, etc., and the egg favors the growth of putre- 
factive bacteria in the intestine in much the same 
way as does meat. The special role of milk in depres- 
sing these organisms is due to the milk sugar, which 
enables fermentative organisms to grow and keep 
down the more harmful rotting types. The fats of 
the egg have essentially the same dietary value as but- 
ter fat, and they are superior to vegetable fats or to 
the body fats of animals, such as lard, tallow, etc. 

U 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

Eggs are especially attractive both in appearance Should be 
and flavor. Most persons will tire of them if served p*®** *" 
too frequently, but they have become so expensive Desserts 
that there is little danger of this in the average home. 
Where it is desired to practice economy, it is not 
wise to serve eggs directly, but to make use of them 
in the preparation of cakes and custards, or in ice 
cream, etc. In such forms they go further toward 
adding attractiveness to the diet than when served 
fried, boiled, poached, etc. . They are especially at- 
tractive as a garnish for salads or spinach. 

SUGAR was not used extensively until the last 
century. Before that time honey and manna were 
highly prized. Crude sugar had- been manufactured xoo Much 
in India from times of great antiquity, and the Amer- Sugar Being 
ican Indians made maple sugar before the discovery Eaten 
of America, According to statistics a century ago 
the consumption of sugar in the United States was 
only about 11 pounds per person per year, but its 
use has increased very rapidly and has reached the re- 
markable figure of 86 pounds per person per year. 
This amount is certainly excessive. There are many 
persons who have developed an abnormal craving for 
sweets, which doubtless is reflected in poor nutrition. 
Sugar contains no mineral matter and is solely use- 
ful as a source of energy for keeping the body warm 
and for supplying energy for muscular work. 

Cane sugar is somewhat irritating to the digestive 
tract, and easily undergoes fermentation when the 
digestion is impaired, with the formation of gas. It 
is a valuable food when used in moderation, but the 
use of sugar and syrups in cookery and in the form 
of candies has gone beyond the bounds of reason or 
physiological justification. In particular, the craving 
for sweet foods leads to failure to appreciate the nat- 
ural flavors of the ordinary wholesome foods, and 
incapacitates one for making a wise choice of food. 

75 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

While it is not wise to discontinue the use of sugar, it 
should be emphasized that the demand for sweet 
foods is an artificially acquired taste, and is almost 
as pernicious as the craving for alcohol. 

TEA AND COFFEE. These beverages, now so 
universally used in many countries, have a remark- 
Effects of g^i^ig stimulating efifect on the brain. They increase 
^Coffee ^^^ reasoning power and the imagination. When 
taken by those who are not accustomed to their use 
they produce wakefulness. They are habit-forming 
beverages because of the alkaloid caffeine which they 
contain. They change the nature of the heart beat, 
and stimulate the action of the kidneys. 

There has been much discussion as to the effects 
of the use of tea and coffee over a long period, but 
little definite can be said concerning them. In chil- 
dren they certainly contribute to instability of the 
nervous system, and their use during the growing 
period is universally condemned. Many persons be- 
come so habituated to their use that the omission of 
the customary dose leads to discomfort. Probably 
their use to this extent does some damage in the long 
run. When used very weak they furnish a hot drink 
which most adults enjoy, and when not used to excess 
their use probably gives sufficient satisfaction to coun- 
terbalance their slight detrimental effects. 

For those who engage in mental work, the wisest 
policy would seem to be to refrain from acquiring 
the habit of regular coffee or tea drinking, and there- 
by preserve the sensitiveness of the nervous system 
for them, so that when one or another is taken on 
special occasions, a period of several hours of unusual 
intellectual clearness may be secured. Those who 
are inclined to nervousness would probably do well 
never to form the habit of drinking either, since their 
use tends to increase irritabilitv. 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Food 

Poisoning 
Is Common. 



Chapter V. 

DANGEROUS FOODS AND THE CARE OF 
FOOD IN THE HOME 

DANGEROUS FOODS. Cases of food poison- 
ing are frequently reported in the newspapers, but 
there is much reason to beHeve that they occur much 
oftener than they are reported, for mild cases nat- 
urally do not attract attention. Some foods are dan- 
gerous because they contain poisons, but the great 
majority of cases of poisoning by foods is the result 
of bacterial growth, or of the presence of bacteria 
which can infect man and cause illness. Everyone 
should be familiar with the fact that it is not safe 
to eat certain foods, and also with the danger which 
may result from failure to care for food properly in 
the home. 

Among the foods which are more or less common- 
ly eaten by man, but which frequently cause illness 
or death, the mushrooms deserve first consideration. 
There are a number of varieties which closely resem- 
ble the edible species, and which are sometimes mis- 
taken for them, which contain deadly poisons. No 
general directions can be given for distinguishing 
the safe from the unsafe kinds, for the features which Mushroom 
distinguish them are not prominent, and can be safely Po»so"*nfi 
judged only by one who has studied mushrooms very 
carefully. It is dangerous to eat mushrooms which 
have been gathered by anyone who has not had con- 
siderable experience, and especially who is familiar 
with the forms which grow in the particular locality. 
Many cases of poisoning have resulted among for- 
eigners who were accustomed to gather mushrooms 
with confidence and safety in their own country, but 
who mistook related species or varieties which were 
deadly for similar ones which are harmless. 

77 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Oxalic Acid 

In Some 

Plants 



Fresh Fish 

Generally 

Safe 



Some species of sorrel are very rich in oxalic acid, 
a highly poisonous substance, while others contain 
much less. It is not safe to use sorrels indiscrim- 
inately for the preparation of ''sour-grass soup," or 
for pies, as was formerly common in the Middle West. 
It is better to entirely avoid eating sorrel of any kind, 
and especially discourage children from eating it, as 
they frequently do in rural districts. 

A number of cases of poisoning with oxalic acid 
were reported in England during the war as the result 
of people eating the leaves of rhubarb. The stems 
contain much less of the acid than do the leaves, and 
the latter should never be used as greens. It is not 
wise to eat rhubarb stalks beyond very moderate 
amounts and then not regularly. 

FISH. Some species of fish are poisonous at all 
times (globe-fish, puffers and balloon fish), but these 
and others, especially those from the waters of tem- 
perate regions, are well recognized as dangerous and 
are not offered for sale. Certain other fish are poi- 
sonous only during the spawning season, and are not 
offered for sale at this time. It may be definitely 
stated that there is no danger in the use of fish which 
are commonly sold, but with the growing demand 
for additional sources of food at the present time, 
there is some cause to be careful about the use of a 
fish which has not generally been upon the market. 
The U. S. Bureau of Fisheries has given close atten- 
tion to the supervision of fishes sold as food and there 
is but very remote possibility of poisoning from fish 
which are inherently dangerous. 

INFECTED FOODS. By far the greatest dan- 
ger from food poisoning lies in the use of food which 
is infected with bacteria which either generate poi- 
sons in it, or which cause infection when they are 
taken into the digestive tract. In most cases poison- 
ing from this source is easily avoidable if certain sim- 

78 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

pie rules are observed. The danger is greatest from 
badly handled milk, meats and fish, but occasionally 
other foods have been implicated in cases of food 
poisoning. 

Gastrointestinal disturbances affecting a number intestinal 
of persons, which develop shortly after eating of the infection 
same dish, are as a rule due to infection by an organ- sp^jig^j 
ism known as the paratyphoid bacillus. Infection Foods 
has not infrequently followed the eating of meat from 
an animal which was ill when slaughtered. The De- 
partment of Agriculture now maintains a very effi- 
cient meat inspection service at all points where large 
numbers of animals are killed for food purposes, and 
the danger to the public health is greatly minimized 
thereby. The meat from infected animals may pre- 
sent no evidences of abnormality, either in color, odor 
or consistency, but illness may follow the consump- 
tion of very small amounts. There is more danger 
in meats which are obtained from animals slaughtered 
outside of regularly established and inspected abat- 
toirs. 

MEAT INFECTION BY DISEASED PER- 
SONS. There is always the possibility that meat 
or other food may become infected bv being- handled ^. , 
in the home by a person who persistently harbors persons 
the paratyphoid organism in the intestine. These should Not 
persons eliminate large numbers of the bacteria in ^^^^^^ 
the urine, and unless their standards of personal 
cleanliness are very high they become a source of 
danger to the health of the household, especially if 
they handle food. Food which becomes contaminat- 
ed with these organisms is rendered harmless by 
thorough cooking, but heating in such a manner as 
does not cause the interior part of it to become ster- 
ilized leads to the infection of those who eat it. It 
becomes especially dangerous when kept at room 

79 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

temperature or in an inefficient refrigerator for a time 
after imperfect cooking. 

Persons suffering from diarrhea should never pre- 
pare food for others, and too great care cannot be 
exercised about cleanliness of the hands of all who 
are engaged in cooking. Thorough cooking is the 
best safeguard against this type of food poisoning, 
but it must be remembered that in ordinary kitchen 
practice the interior of a roast, or of many baked 
dishes, fails to reach a sufficiently high temperature 
to destroy the ofifending organisms if they be pres- 
ent. There are many evidences of this in the data 
collected in epidemics of food poisoning. The old 
name of ptomaine poisoning is now^ falling into dis- 
use, since it has been learned that bacteria are gen- 
erally the active agents which cause the trouble. 

Fifty-five girls in a school in Ireland ate of a beef 

stew, the meat of which was infected. Fifty-three 

Instances ^^ them were made ill, and eight died. Others among 

of Food the girls who ate some of the beef as a cold meat 

Poisoning, were made seriously ill. In this case the meat was 

not sufficiently heated in the preparation of the stew, 

to render it harmless. 

In 1915 there was an outbreak of food poisoning 
at Westerly, Rhode Island, which was traced to the 
eating of infected pies. Apple, squash, custard, lemon 
and chocolate pies were all found to have caused ill- 
ness of people who ate at a certain restaurant, and 
the cause was found to lie in the use of the same batch 
of crust for the entire lot of pies. The person who 
prepared the crust was doubtless infected with the 
paratyphoid bacillus. 

A remarkable outbreak of poisoning from food 
occurred at Hanford, California, in 1914, at a church 
supper. Ninety-three persons were infected with 
typhoid fever. Only those who ate of a dish of spa- 
ghetti were made ill, and the source of the infection 

80 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



A Typhoid 
Outbreak 
From a 
Church 
Supper 



Danger 
Sufficient 
to Warrant 
Caution 



was traced to the woman who prepared this food. 
She was a typhoid carrier, and had contaminated the 
spaghetti with her hands, which were unclean. The 
organisms developed rapidly in the interval before 
baking, and the interior of the mass was not suffi- 
ciently heated to destroy them. The State Depart- 
ment of Health of California conducted experiments 
with baking spaghetti, and found that such heat 
treatment as was given the dish which was served 
at the church supper only served to render the central 
portion warm enough to enable the germs of typhoid 
fever to multiply rapidly. 

Such serious instances of poisoning are rare, but 
smaller ones in which the members of a single family 
or a slightly larger group are affected are quite com- 
mon. The danger is sufficiently great to warrant 
cautioning all who prepare food or who supervise 
others who do so, to be on their guard, and to acquire 
habits of thoroughness in the heating of foods of cer- 
tain kinds, so as to make it impossible for dangerous 
organisms such as those of typhoid or paratyphoid 
fever to survive. 

The history of epidemics of food poisoning also 
make it clear that the health of all persons who pre- 
pare or serve food in public eating places should be 
carefully looked after. The tragic history of Mary 
Mallory illustrates an extreme case of the infection ^j^ 
of others by a person who persistently carried the Typhoid 
germs of typhoid fever. She was a cook and served Carrier 
in and about New York City. One large hospital 
epidemic and at least seven family epidemics were 
traced to her. 

The protection of food against contamination 
with typhoid organisms through water containing 
them is another important matter which should be 
understood by all, A well which is regarded as safe 
as a source of water may suddenly become dangerous 

81 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

after a heavy rain which has washed into it surface 
water from soil contaminated with human excreta. In 
most cities the water supply is now carefully looked 
after, and the transmission of disease by it is steadily 
becoming less common, but on farms and in villages 
there may still be considerable danger from this 
source. Since the family milk supply usually comes 
from farms which are not above suspicion, it is best 

Impure that all milk not from certified sources should be 
WaterMay hg^tcd sufficiently (pasteurized) to render it safe. 

Disease Water which has become contaminated with sewage 
may be a source of danger in transmitting harmful 
bacteria to food which has been washed in it, or the 
contamination may be brought about by washing 
milk cans or other utensils or dishes with impure 
water. The logic of rinsing dishes after washing in 
scalding water rests on a sound hygienic basis. Once 
typhoid or paratyphoid organisms are introduced into 
food, they may multiply very rapidly if the temper- 
ature is suitable as it is in hot weather, and food 
which was wholesome becomes within a day or two 
a menace to the health of those who eat it. City 
water which is carefully guarded as to its purity not 
infrequently becomes more or less dangerous imme- 
diately after a heavy storm which floods the sewers 
and washes unusual quantities of surface water into 
the reservoirs. At such times it would make for 
safety to the health of the family if the drinking water 
for a few days was boiled. 

A large proportion of those outbreaks of food 
poisoning which have been investigated have been 
Sausage and due to sausage and other chopped meats. The rea- 
Chopped sQn for this is clear. The meat during the chopping 
Meats pj-Qcess is greatly exposed to contamination, and 
when this occurs the germs of a harmful nature be- 
come well distributed throughout the mass. The 
limited supply of oxygen in the interior favors their 

82 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



growth. Such meats are frequently allowed to grow 
stale before being sold to the consumer, and sausage 
and Hamburg steak are not infrequently eaten with- 
out adequate heating to render them safe. Sausage 
of the kinds which are eaten raw are by no means 
safe foods. Meat pies and meat jellies have caused 
many outbreaks of food poisoning because of the 
common failure to heat them sufficiently before being 
eaten. 

Because of the special importance of milk as a 
human food, and the common habit of taking it raw 
except in the larger cities, it deserves special consid- 
eration. Milk has been responsible for many cases 
of food-born infections because it is especially liable 
to become infected. Probably no less than ten per 
cent of all dairy cows in the country are infected 
with tuberculosis. The bovine tubercle bacillus is 
different in several respects from the human type, 
and there was for a time much discussion as to 
whether the bovine form could infect human beings. 
The evidence is overwhelmingly in support of the 
view that the human infant and the young of do- 
mestic animals can contract the disease from the 
milk of tuberculous cows. Milk from diseased cows 
is much less dangerous to adults, but there are ob- 
vious esthetic reasons, if no other were available, 
why such milk should not be used as food. 

The opportunity for milk to become infected is 
very great. Cows are rarely kept as clean as they 
should be; the dust from the air of the barn always 
gets into the milk pail to some extent even where sat- J^^"^®^* 
isfactory care is exercised; the udder of the cow now ^^^^^ 
and then becomes infected with pathogenic bacteria; 
the hands of the milker are not always clean; the 
health of the milker is not always good, and is some- 
times such as to disqualify him for his business. Yet 
in many instances he continues to milk during tem- 

83 



Milk Should 
Come from 
Healthy 
Cows 



Common 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

porary illness or during the early stages of disease 
which later incapacitates him for work. Add these 
factors to the long interval between the drawing of 
the milk and its delivery, which not infrequently in- 
tervenes when milk has to be carried from the farm 
to the city; the common practice of delivering the 
milk from a number of farms mixed in the city, and 
it can be readily appreciated that some precautions 
must be taken to render such milk harmless as a food. 

The common milk-born infections are typhoid 
fever, scarlet fever, tuberculosis, and the organism 
which has been found in many cases to be responsible 
MiikBorne ^^^ epidemics of sore throat. All of these organisms 
Diseases are easily destroyed by heating for a short time at 
temperatures considerably below the boiling point of 
water, and several methods have been proposed and 
more or less widely adopted for such treatment of 
market milk. These processes are known as pasteuri- 
zation, after Pasteur, the famous French bacteriolo- 
gist, who first enunciated the principle upon which 
it rests. In some cases the milk is heated to a tem- 
perature of 170-180 degrees Fahrenheit for a period 
of ten minutes ; in others to 165 degrees for twenty 
minutes, and in still others at 140-145 degrees for 
thirty minutes. The higher the temperature the 
Pasteun- gj^Qj-^^j- ^j^g period required to destroy all those forms 
of organisms which may cause disease. The treat- 
ments just described are all capable of rendering milk 
safe for human consumption, but the tendency has 
been to adopt more and more the practice of heating 
to the lower temperatures and for the longer period, 
because the flavor of the milk is less altered by this 
method than by berating to higher temperatures. The 
taste is in all cases modified to some extent, but when 
the process is properly carried out, this is negligible. 

All milk which is derived from several farms 
which are not regularly and effectively inspected to 

84 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

determine the health of the cows and the standards 
of cleanliness of the management, should be pasteur- 
ized as a health measure. Pasteurized milk is, so far 
as can be determined, the equivalent of fresh milk 
in its food value, except that it has lost in some meas- 
ure its power to protect against the development of 
scurvy. This is not a matter of any importance in ^^^p^^"^^^"^ 
the nutrition of adults who take an ordinary varied I'^e/Mnk'^" 
diet, but may be a serious matter in the feeding of 
an infant which is fed on cows' milk exclusively over 
a considerable period. The adult never lives exclu- 
sively on a milk diet except as a special therapeutic 
measure, and even then the juice of lemons or oranges 
is generally taken in fairly liberal amounts because 
it makes easier the drinking of milk in liberal amounts 
at frequent intervals. The citrous fruits are espe- 
cially good for supplying the antiscorbutic substance. 
When an infant is fed pasteurized milk it should 
always be given orange juice daily. This is discussed 
in greater detail in chapter II. 

Pasteurization does not kill all of the bacteria in 
milk. The dangerous forms are all killed, and accord- 
ing to the temperature and time of heating, the num- 
ber of organisms of the kind which cause the normal f^^*/."\, , 

r .,, •,, 1 11 1 ^-1 In Milk Not 

sourmg of milk will be reduced or may be entirely ^u Killed by 
destroyed. All milks which are pasteurized at the Pasteuriza- 
lower temperatures named will sour irrespective of 
the subsequent accidental or intentional introduction 
of the lactic acid organism. Milk which is pasteurized 
at high temperatures will generally not sour at all or 
sour so slowly that other types of decomposition mask 
it, and the milk spoils by unwholesome processes. 
Even the best pasteurized product will ordinarily sour 
more slowly than will raw milk, and this is an im- 
portant factor in determining the fitness of old milk 
which has been subjected to this treatment. 

85 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

There are always found in milk a certain number 
of spores of bacteria of the type which cause the 
putrefaction of milk proteins, and unfortunately 
these are very resistant to heat and survive the pas- 
teurization process. When unheated milk is allowed 
to sour, the accumulation of lactic acid serves to de- 
press the growth of the organisms which would cause 
a rotting decomposition of the milk proteins. Clean 

Normal milk which has soured is therefore a wholesome food. 

Souring The souriug process serves to preserve its food value. 

Prevents j^ ^jgo serves as an excellent criterion of the freshness 

nw o e- q£ ^j^g milk which is sold to the consumer in the city, 
composition. ^^^ ^^^ taste will quickly detect it. If, therefore, raw 
milk were marketed, the rapidity of souring would 
force the distributor to handle the product properly 
in order to prevent loss. He would avoid loss by 
efficiently refrigerating, and promptly delivering his 
milk. While pasteurization of milk has great advan- 
tages from the standpoint of protecting the public 
against several diseases, the treatment also changes 
its bacterial content so as to make it especially neces- 
sary to safeguard it by proper care so as to prevent 
its becoming unwholesome. 

The slow souring of pasteurized milk gives an 
opportunity for the bacteria which form unwhole- 
some products in it to develop. Unfortunately the 
sense of taste does not readily detect changes of this 
„^ J nature so readily as it does the accumulation of acid. 
Pasteurized Stale pasteurized milk is therefore unfit for human 
Milk Not consumption and should not be sold. The consumer 
Fit for Food is not in a position to determine the quality of the 
market milk which she receives, and must rely on the 
health authorities for protection. She should assist 
them by reporting milk which develops a bad flavor, 
or which does not keep wholesome for at least twenty- 
four hours in the home provided it has not been al- 
lowed to stand in the bottle on the door step after it 

86 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



was delivered, but was promptly placed in an efficient 
refrigerator. 

The housewife should inquire of the health de- 
partment about the standards of the milk distributor 
whom she patronizes, and co-operate with this de- 
partment in securing for the city a first class milk 
supply. Too much importance should not be attached 
to the total bacterial count as a basis of judgment of 
the quality of milk and its fitness for food. A high 
count, if due solely to the presence of the normal sour- 
ing organisms in warm weather, may have little sig- 
nificance, although it calls for vigilance. It is the 
number of gas formers which is of greatest moment 
and the bacteriologist of the health department alone 
can determine when the condition of the market milk 
calls for criticism in many instances. 

Milk which contains excessive numbers of bacteria 
may be permissible as food for adults provided it is 
used in cookery and is boiled sufficiently to render 
it harmless. It is not so wholesome a food as fresh, 
clean milk, however, and any which is in a bad bac- 
teriological condition should never be used for chil- 
dren even when bottled, as it is dangerous. 

The human infant is so delicate that its health is 
put in jeopardy by feeding it any milk other than the 
freshest, cleanest and most wholesome that can be 
obtained. The indifference with which many people 
feed canned or stale milks to infants and young chil- 
dren is little short of criminal, and when sane advice 
by competent bacteriologists and medical men in the 
health departments is now almost everywhere to be 
freely had for the asking, such practices cannot be 
excused on the basis of ignorance. An excellent 
method of fulfilling the duties of good citizenship is 
to keep conversant with the reports of the health de- 
partment, and to co-operate with it in every way pos- 
sible to protect the health of the community. Vig- 

87 



Total 

Number of 
Bacteria 
In Milk 
Not Very 
Significant 



Low Grade 
Milk May 
Be Used 
In Cookery 



Do Not Feed 
Infants 
Stale 
Milk 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Canned Milk 
Should Be 
Used Only 
by Adults 



Sweetened 
and Un- 
sweetened 
Canned 
Milks 



ilance of the milk supply and of the inspection of 
water and foods by the proper authorities is a duty 
of every conscientious member of the community. 

CANNED MILK. Milk production cannot be 
regulated according to the demands of the season. 
There will always be a surplus at some seasons when 
enough is produced to supply the public during the 
part of the year when the flow is smallest. This sur- 
plus is taken care of principally through canning of 
partly evaporated milk. The canned milk industry 
serves the useful function of preservation for future 
use of a valuable food resource which would other- 
wise have to go for stock feeding or be wasted. 

Canned milks are of two classes : sweetened and 
unsweetened. Part of the water is removed by evap- 
oration, and this evaporated product is placed in cans 
and sealed with suitable "processing" or heating to 
render it sterile, or nearly so, to prevent spoilage. 
Such unsweetened canned milk is called evaporated 
milk. Condensed milk always designates a product 
which has been treated in the manner described and 
with the subsequent addition of sufficient cane sugar 
to aid in its preservation. Bacteria do not grow well 
in highly sweetened foods, a fact which forms the 
basis of preserving foods such as fruits, jellies, etc., 
by the addition of much sugar. It is necessary to 
heat unsweetened, canned milk to a higher tempera- 
ture and for a longer time to prevent subsequent bac- 
terial decomposition, than condensed milk which is 
partly preserved by sweetening. The sweetened 
product does not need to be sterile in order to keep 
until marketed, and as one would expect, there are 
some cans which are not in as good bacteriological 
condition as others. 

All canned milks have been heated sufficiently to 
alter their flavors. All have been heated much higher 
than the temperature employed in pasteurization. All 

88 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

heated milks have lost in great measure their power 
to prevent scurvy from developing, but this is not 
under ordinary conditions of living a matter of any 
importance for adults. It may become a matter of ^^.!)"^^.., 
great gravity in feeding soldiers during a siege, or in j^^^. p^gyent 
garrisons, or prisoners, when they are confined to a scurvy 
monotonous diet free from fresh fruits or vegetables. 
The latter supply the necessary protective substance 
for this purpose. 

Canned milks are not proper food for infants or 
young children. They may be used with safety and 
profit by adults where fresh milk cannot be obtained, 
and a large market is assured for them in such places. 
It cannot be denied that children have succeeded in 
growing up on such milks, but they are greatly jeop- 
ardized by being confined to them. Experienced 
baby specialists are all agreed that the bones of an 
infant do not as a rule develop normally when it is 
confined for a prolonged period to canned milk. The Mistaken 
administration of orange juice or other fresh fruit Weas About 
juice may prevent the development of scurvy, but q^j^^^^^ 
according to some specialists does not prevent rickets. Milk 
It is true that many will testify to the experience that 
an infant may do better for a time on sweetened 
canned milk than it previously did on fresh raw or 
pasteurized milk. The beneficial effects of such a 
change of diet are to be explained by the action of 
the large amount of sugar in the canned milk, which 
discourage the growth of some pernicious type of 
organism which was flourishing in the intestine of 
the infant and making it ill. This does not serve to 
establish that canned milk is a good and safe infant 
food. It would be much better where the physician 
desires to add sugar to the diet for this purpose, to 
add it to clean, fresh milk, certified if it is obtainable, 
and if not, to the best fresh pasteurized milk which 
can be had. 

89 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Milk 
Powders 



Botulism 

from Spoiled 

Meats, etc 



DRIED MILKS. What has been said of canned 
milks may probably also be said of ordinary dried 
milk, but too little experience is available in the use 
of the very best qualities of milk powders to warrant 
an expression of opinion regarding their value in in- 
fant feeding. There is much less heating in the most 
perfect processes for the preparation of high grade 
milk powders than in the canning of milks. The 
product prepared by the spray process appears to be 
superior to all others. The milk is first partly con- 
densed by distilling ofif moisture in a partial vacuum, 
and the concentrated solution of milk solids which 
results is sprayed in the form of fine droplets into a 
large chamber, which is thoroughly ventilated by a 
blast of warm air. This carries away the water con- 
tent of the milk almost instantaneously, and the 
solids of the milk fall in the form of a snowy powder. 
This redissolves readily in water and forms a "recon- 
stituted" milk which can scarcely be told from fresh 
milk. It is therefore vastly superior to canned milks 
in flavor, and forms a wholesome food with excellent 
keeping qualities. Conversion into the finest grade 
of powder forms the most satisfactory method of 
preserving milk which has been devised. 

BOTULISM. There is a kind of food poisoning 
which has fortunately not become common in the 
United States, but has occasionally occurred. It is 
much more frequently met with in Europe. It is 
due to the ingestion of the poisonous body formed in 
foods by the organism bacillus botulinus, and the con- 
dition which the poison produces is known as botul- 
ism. The name comes from the Latin word for sau- 
sage, because this article has been more frequently 
responsible for this type of poisoning than any other. 
Stale foods of any kind are liable to harbor this 
bacillus and its poison. It has been traced to canned 
beans, canned pork and beans and to stale chicken 

90 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

and other remnants of meat which have been made 
into sandwiches. The trouble is not due to the in- 
gestion of the organism itself, for it does not grow at 
body temperature, although it thrives at ordinary 
room temperatures. During growth it forms the 
poison, the ingestion of which produces a most seri- 
ous and frequently fatal intoxication. 

The botulinus organism cannot develop in the 
presence of air, and this fact together with its ina- 
bility to grow at body temperature doubtless accounts 
for its infrequent observation. The poison is easily sfaie Meats 
destroyed by heating to the temperature of boiling 
water, so that if an article of food were badly infected 
and highly toxic, it would no longer be dangerous 
if, as is usually the case, it were heated to boiling 
before serving. It may develop in the interior of a 
piece of meat but occurs most frequently in canned 
goods which have not been heated in processing for 
a sufficient length of time to kill its spores. It should 
be the invariable rule to heat all canned goods to 
boiling before serving. If this is done there is no 
danger whatever from this variety of food poisoning. 

CANNED GOODS. The practice of preserving 
food by sealing it in air tight cans and sterilizing by 
heat did not become common until the Civil War, 
but since then food canning has grown to be an enor- 
mous industry. There has been a tendency for many Suspicion 
years on the part of the public to be suspicious of of Canned 
the quality of canned foods. The most serious out- ^^^'^^ 
break of criticism arose during the Spanish-American 
war in connection with the beef supplied to the sol- 
diers in Cuba. The canned meat was apparently in 
good condition, and was pronounced wholesome by 
competent and unprejudiced scientists, but the boys 
came to dislike it, presumably because they were fed 
excessive amounts of meat, rich in fat, in a semi- 
tropical climate. As would be expected, they became 

91 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

disgusted at the sight of canned meat. The news- 
papers, championing the cause of the soldier, heralded 
the unpleasant appellation "embalmed beef" widely 
and helped to establish in the mind of the public a 
distrust of canned foods in general. Whenever there 
has occurred a case of food poisoning sufficiently 
Foods Are scrious to attract attention, suspicion has invariably 
Usually fallen on any canned article which has been recently 
Safe eaten. In many cases these suspicions have been un- 
founded, but occasionally there has occurred a case 
of poisoning from canned foods. 

Canned meats are probably safer in general than 
beef or fowl left over from a former repast and served 
when several days old as cold meat, or in the form of 
sandwiches. They are certainly much safer than 
sausages or hamburg steaks or than lobster. The 
latter spoils so readily that is is customary to market 
them alive, to be killed at the time their preparation 
for the table is begun. There is difficulty in keeping 
them alive in some cases, and it not infrequently 
happens that the dealer forces the purchaser to take 
some dead with living ones. The number of cases of 
poisoning from lobster has not been so great or so 
frequent as to cause undue alarm. It may be consid- 
ered in general a safe food provided ordinary care is 
exercised. Canned lobster is probably as safe as other 
canned meats, and the same may be said of other sea 
foods. 

From time to time the objection has been raised 
against canned foods that they are liable to contain 
dissolved tin from the can or lead from the solder. 
Such objections have not found much support from 
chemical analysis. It is true that acid fruits, and 
among the vegetables, especially asparagus, may dis- 
solve a considerable amount of tin, but the practice 
of using lacquered or enameled containers has in- 

92 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

creased to a considerable extent during recent years 
and minimizes this difficulty. 

RAW FOODS. The danger from the use of raw 
milk and sausage has been already discussed. It from Raw 
may be added that there are certain animal parasites, Meats 
the most important among which in temperate re- 
gions are trichina and tape worm, which enter the 
system only through the use of meats which are in- 
fested with the encysted larvae. Trichina comes 
from raw or under-cooked pork. It has been stated 
even in recent years that about six per cent of all 
hogs slaughtered harbor this parasite. It is especially 
dangerous since there is no effective cure for it once Trichina 
it enters the muscles. This the larvae do by pene- p**^*^ ^^^ 
trating the intestinal wall. The disease, in cases 
where the number of parasites which enter the tissues 
is small, is not fatal, but causes much suffering. 

Tapeworm is almost always derived from eating 
beef which is raw or under cooked. It, as well as 
trichina, can be entirely avoided by thorough cook- 
ing of the meat. There is a dwarf tapeworm which 
is parasitic in the hog and the rat, and food contam- Tapeworm 
inated by its eggs forms the source from which these ^*"^'" ^^^ 
animals become its hosts. These and a few other 
parasites which occasionally infest men are sufficient- 
ly common in animals which are used as food, so 
that it is very important that all food of this nature 
should be heated so thoroughly as to destroy the 
larvae. 

The belief is held by a few faddists that man 
would be better nourished if he ate only raw foods, j.^^^ ^^^ 
This subject needs little discussion for the practice Food Fad 
would greatly restrict the list of articles which could 
be eaten with safety. While some of the lower ani- 
mals can eat foods containing raw starch, most of 
these articles are not safe for man and produce indi- 
gestion if eaten freely. The starch granules are 

93 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Most 

Vegetables 

Should be 

Cooked 



Foods 

Which 

May be 

Eaten 

Raw 



individually wrapped in a paper-like cellulose mem- 
brane which is of such a nature that it is not dissolved 
by any of the digestive juices in the alimentary tract 
of man. Cooking causes the bursting of this mem- 
brane, and the setting free of the starch, which makes 
it possible for the digestive ferments to come into 
intimate contact with it. The flavors of various foods 
are markedly improved by cooking, and, without ex- 
ception, their digestibility as well. 

Almost all vegetables from the garden are eaten 
only after cooking. The most important exceptions 
are lettuce, tomato, celery, onion and radish. These, 
if thoroughly washed, are entirely safe, except in a 
few cases where the inexcusable practice is followed 
of fertilizing the ground with night soil. This prac- 
tice is very common in China, and may contaminate 
vegetables with the typhoid organism. For esthetic 
reasons, if for no other, the use of this method of 
fertilizing cannot be too strongly condemned. 

Fruits and berries are frequently eaten raw, and 
this is to be recommended when practicable. It has 
been stated that the substance in natural foods which 
prevents scurvy is the most easily destroyed con- 
stituent of our diet, and most cooked foods as well 
as those which have been sterilized by canning, or 
even subjected to the lesser degree of heat necessary 
for pasteurization, will be lacking in this dietary 
essential. There are probably a very few foods 
which can be heated or dried without complete loss 
of this substance. The tomato appears to be one of 
these. The best way to introduce this protective sub- 
stance into the diet is in such fruits as can be eaten 
raw with safety. Apples, pears, peaches, oranges, 
bananas and berries serve this purpose admirably. 
They are clean enough to eat when washed or peeled. 
The juice of the lemon or orange is apparently one of 
the best sources of the protective substance against 

94 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

scurvy. Berries need special care in washing because 
in many cases some or all of them are liable to have 
been in contact with the soil, on account of the low- 
ness of the vine, or the tendency of the canes to droop 
to the ground when loaded with fruit. They are not 
therefore so safe for children as fruits which are 
peeled. Nuts, being protected by a shell, are excep- 
tionally clean and suitable for eating raw. Their 
palatability is high, and they are very desirable for 
the sake of variety and palatability in the diet. They 
have the advantage that they need no preparation. 
All human foods, except the meats, fruits and nuts 
are of relatively low palatability. These few are 
therefore of special value for their appetizing qual- 
ities. 

REFRIGERATION OF FOOD IN THE 
HOME. Since all uncooked foods are more or less 
contaminated with bacteria, and all cooked foods 
readily become seeded with organisms from the air 
and handling, all will undergo decomposition if kept Keep a 
too long. The spoilage takes place slower at low S**^*^^ 
temperature than at high; hence the desirability of 
having a good refrigerator in the home for the 
preservation of food. Many refregerators and ice 
boxes are practically worthless because of faulty con- 
struction or lack of sufficient ice. A small ice box is 
frequently an expensive luxury, which wastes ice and • 
fails to preserve food, while a big refrigerator is true 
economy. Many household refrigerators do not 
maintain a temperature below 55 to 58 degrees F. and 
at these temperatures most forms of bacteria continue 
to grow fairly rapidly. The temperature should be 
not higher than 45 degrees around the food. 

It never pays to buy less ice than the maximum 
which the refrigerator will hold. Ice melts faster if Economize 
the temperature is high than if it is low, so the greater on ice 
the amount of ice in the compartment, and the more 

95 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

efficient the lowering of the temperature the greater 
the saving in the rate of melting as well as increased 
thoroughness in the cooling of the food. 

The refrigerator should be cleaned at least once 
a week. The water from melted ice should not be 
used for cool drinks, nor should it come into contact 
with food, unless the ice is frozen artificially and from 
boiled or distilled water. Natural ice frequently con- 
tains the germs of typhoid fever. 

Most refrigerators are so constructed that the 
water drips away as fast as it is formed, and while it 
is still nearly ice cold. Much of the refrigerating 
power of it is of course lost. The ice compartment 
should be a water tight box in which the water ac- 
How to cumulates around the ice. This prevents rapid melt- 
Keep ing of the ice, and secured the full cooling power of 
M-ik^r^id ^^^ ^^^ water. The water may be drawn off each day 
before the compartment is re-filled. The temperature 
of water in which ice is floating will be but a few 
degrees above the freezing point, and when milk is 
being kept for feeding an infant over a twenty-four 
hour period, the bottle should be immersed in this ice 
water, rather than allowed to stand in air beside a 
cake of ice, since it will be much colder in the water. 

SAFETY AND ESTHETIC STANDARDS IN 
FOOD. — Disease is mainly contracted through di- 
Esthetic rect contact with a diseased person or animal or with 
Standards [^^ secretions or excretions. Next in importance as 
^"i F^ ^d^ cause of disease is food which has become contamin- 
ated with bacteria. Lack of cleanliness in the home 
or surroundings is of much less importance in the 
dissemination of disease. The views regarding the 
relative importance of these factors have been com- 
pletely reversed within recent years. 

The discriminating part of the public now de- 
mands cleanliness in the handling of food and drink, 
and attractiveness in appearance and manner of serv- 

96 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

ing, wholly aside from any element of danger to 
health which may be involved in methods which do 
not meet with their approval. This appreciation of 
cleanliness, apart from the protection which it affords ^^^ Grading 
against infection, is a purely esthetic factor which has According 
greatly modified the handling of food by dealers. It to its 
is now common practice to demand single service cleanness 
packages in the serving of food in public eating places, 
and of package foods in the home. Laws have been 
enacted and enforced to prevent the exposure of foods 
to dust of the street or to insects. Bread must be 
wrapped if it is to find its way into many homes. 
Bottled water is purchased by many at great expense 
because of a highly developed sense of decency, and 
a demand for attractive appearance in food and drink. 

The classification of milk into A, B and C grades 
is a notable illustration of the demand of the public 
for a clean product, notwithstanding that all grades 
may be rendered comparatively safe for consumption 
by adults by means of pasteurization. People have 
come to appreciate milk which has been collected 
under hygienic conditions and are willing in many 
cases to pay an additional price for the assurance that 
their food has never been allowed to become 
contaminated at any time, irrespective of the fact that 
it may have been subsequently rendered entirely safe 
by heating. The demand for bottled water at a high 
price instead of city water which has been treated 
chemically in order to render it safe provided it may 
have been contaminated before treatment, illustrates 
the same tendency. 

Doubtless the instinct for cleanliness had its origin 
in a realization that a relation sometimes exists be- 
tween dirt, insects and disease, but it can be readily 
appreciated that the esthetic demands of the public, 
or at least a part of it, have gone far beyond the point 
where safety alone is involved. 

97 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

Tn tlu" main the supervision of tlie manufacture 

and handling- of food by the officials char<4ed with this 

(hit)' must necessarily have safety to health as its 

Object of watchword, rather than a high standard of excellence, 

, '"^* for the "ratification of the esthetic sense of enjoyment 

IiiHpcction ^ • ,- I 1 • 1 1 1 11 11 

ot eatini;" tood winch lias never been allowed to be- 
come contaminated at any time. It is not easy to 
draw a line between the reasonable and the unreason- 
able in resi)ect to this matter. 

A jT;"ood general plan will be to demand extreme 
care in the manufacture and handling of those foods 
which are to be eaten in the home without further 
heat treatment. ]*)read, crackers, pastry, etc., fall 
into this class, as do also breakfast cereals and milk 
or cream and butter. 

The protection of cooked meats from dust is so 
simple and makes for safety in some degree, that vig- 
ilance in enforcing laws for securing it are warranted. 
It is much less necessary to demand extreme cleanli- 
ness in fruits which can be washed and peeled before 
consumpti(^n, or in vegetables which are to be thor- 
oughly cooked before serving. 

It is easily i)ossible to cultivate an abnormal stand- 

Somo Are ^^'^^ ^^^ cstlictic demands for cleanliness and attractive- 

Ovor-sonsi- iicss ill food, aiul to cstablisli very expensive standards 

tivo About which many individuals cannot afford. It is un- 

cieaniiness |\),-j i,,|^( ^. iiulecd. for a pcrsou to be so observant and 

critical about food that he or she is unable to enjoy 

food which is prepared in the average public eating 

place under conditions which are acceptable to the 

ordinary individual. Nevertheless a standard which 

demands something beyond mere safety from infec- 

ti(Mi with disease uerms is desirable. 



98 



WIIA'I" SHALL WK HAVE Vi)\i IMNNl^R? 



Chapter VI 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS TO BE OB- 
SERVED IN THE FEEDING OF 
YOUNG CHILDREN 

'J'he unborn infant is nourished by the substances 
which circulate in the blood of the mother, although 
the mother's blood does not mix with that of the child. 
The nutrition of the child begins with the bej^inning 
of prenatal life, and the diet of the mother should be "^® 
such as will insure that her blood carries everythinji;' ,,"j|^. "" 
which is necessary for the nourishment of her unborn ynborn 
infant. It should likewise be such that her blood will 
carry as little as possible of foreign and obnoxious 
substances which are derived from bacterial de- 
composition of food in her digestive tract. In the 
light of all that we now know, this can best be ac- 
comi)lished by the mother adhering in great measure 
to a lacto-vegetarian diet, in which green vegetables 
are abundant. 

The pregnant woman should understand that she 
should not be over abstemious. Neither should she feel 
that she should eat more than her appetite calls for. 
The additional demand on her nutrition at this time 
is not so great as might ai)pear on first thought. The 
formation of a seven j)ound baby, about three-fourths 
of whose weight is water, demands, during a period 
of nine months but little daily contribution of food 
material from the mother. The most im])ortant con- 
sideration is to furnish the fleveloping child with the 
right kinds of substances for its growth. This is best 
accomplished by a diet which best promotes the health 
of the mother. 

Every baby should be nursed by its mother. This 
is the only natural method of feeding an infant. An 
eminent pediatritian, Dr. Schlossmann, has aptly 

99 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Every Baby 

Should be 

Nursed 



Diet of 

Mother 

Important 

for Milk 

Production. 



Mortality 

of Babies 

In the 

Philippines 



Nursing 

Mother 

Requires 

the 

Protective 

Foods 



termed bottle feeding "unnatural," and experience 
amply justifies the use of this harsh word instead of 
the better-sounding common term "artificial" feed- 
ing. In 1901 Westergaard presented statistics which 
show that the mortality of infants fed on cows' milk 
is from five to ten times greater than among those fed 
on mothers' milk. 

The character of the diet of the mother is a factor 
of the greatest importance for the production of an 
adequate supply of milk of good quality. In the 
Philippine Islands, among mothers who live on very 
poor diets largely vegetable, the loss of infants is 
much higher when they are nursed than when they 
are fed on cows' milk. Yet in this tropical climate the 
mortality among "unnaturally" fed babies is much 
greater than it is among babies fed cows' milk in the 
United States, because of lack of care in the handling 
of the milk, and consequent bad bacteriological con- 
dition. The best diet for the nursing mother is a milk 
and vegetable diet in which lettuce, spinach, cabbage, 
Brussels sprouts, chard, collards, turnip greens or 
other leafy vegetables and fruits are abundant. Meat 
should be eaten but sparingly, but should be used in 
cookery to confer palatability on the vegetable foods. 

There is good reason to believe that the common 
practice of deriving too large a part of the diet from 
meat, bread, sugar, potatoes, breakfast cereals, peas 
and beans is in no small measure responsible for the 
failure of many mothers to produce milk of satis- 
factory quantity and quality for the nutrition of their 
infants. There is no hardship in restriction of the 
intake of meat and increasing the consumption of 
milk and the green vegetables, and the mother who 
does so will greatly minimize the danger of a break 
in the healthy growth of her baby. 

When it is absolutely necessary to feed a baby on 
something other than the mother's milk the first 

100 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



A Goat as 
a Foster 
Mother 



choice of substitutes is the milk of the goat. Many 
persons in large cities cannot readily keep a goat for 
this purpose, but in villages or on farms it is always 
easy to do so. The goat does not suffer from 
tuberculosis as does the cow. It has been estimated 
that at least ten per cent of all dairy cows in the 
United States are infected with this disease, and it is 
readily transmitted to a young infant through the 
milk if it is fed raw. When pasteurized milk is used 
there is no danger from this source, but pasteurized 
milk is not so satisfactory for an infant as is raw milk. 
It is vastly superior to the average raw milk which 
is sold in cities, however, and should always be 
selected instead of the latter unless certified milk is 
procured. 

When a goat is kept for an infant, doubtless the 
best method of feeding is to apply the child directly to 
the nipple of the animal and let it suck. In this way 
it will get its milk free from bacteria. The nipple 
should be carefully washed with several portions of 
boiled water; not several times with the same water. 
If this method is not followed, the goat should be 
milked immediately before each feeding. The milk- 
ing should be done directly into the bottle from which Bottle 
the child is to be fed. The bottle should be washed 
thoroughly with warm water and soap after use and 
well rinsed with boiled water. Special care should 
be taken to keep the nipple clean by forcing warm, 
soapy water through it. Do not use the same dish 
mop for washing baby's bottle that is used for the 
family dishes. Have a special one for this purpose 
and rinse it free from soapy water after use. Hang 
it where flies cannot reach it when not in use and do 
not lay it in the kitchen sink or on the kitchen table. 

After goat's milk, fresh pasteurized milk from the 
cow forms the best food which is usually available for 
an infant. If the cost is not prohibitive it is best to 

101 



How to 

Wash 

Baby's 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Use Milk 

from 

Healthy 

Cows In 

Infant 

Feeding 



Keep Baby's 

Milk Cold 

Until 

Feeding 

Time, 

Then Warm 

It. 



Orange 

Juice for 

Infants 



Spinach 
for Babies. 



purchase certified milk for a baby during the first year 
and a half of its life. Certified milk is milk which has 
been obtained from cows which are carefully in- 
spected at frequent intervals and are known to be 
free from disease; the standard of cleanliness in the 
barn is known to be high and the health of the milkers 
is carefully watched. When cows' milk is fed to an 
infant it is best to skim off half of the cream. 

It is of the greatest importance to keep baby's 
milk as cold as possible from the moment it is de- 
livered at the door until it is used. The most efficient 
way to do this is to have an ice box in which the ice 
is kept in a deep pan in which the water from the 
melting ice accumulates. The bottle of milk sub- 
merged partly in this water containing a piece of ice 
will be many degrees colder than it would be in an 
ordinary refrigerator, even when standing beside 
the ice. 

When pasteurized milk is employed in infant feed- 
ing the child should be given a teaspoonful of orange 
juice daily after it is a month old. The amount should 
be increased gradually as the child grows older. At 
three or four months it should have a tablespoonful 
daily. 

At a meeting of baby specialists in 1917 the sub- 
ject of feeding green vegetables was thoroughly dis- 
cussed. The fact was brought out that the practice 
of giving infants well cooked spinach when their 
nutritive condition is below normal, has been widely 
adopted and with excellent results. The fact was 
emphasized that the spinach should be steamed rather 
than boiled since it loses less mineral salts in steam- 
ing. It should never be fed without being rubbed 
through a sieve to break it up finely and to remove all 
coarse particles. Feeding spinach may be begun at 
the age of six months. A tablespoonful a day may be 
given at this age and the amount may be increased 

102 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

to double this amount at nine or ten months and to 
three spoonfuls after the child is a year old. Orange 
juice should be continued with the spinach. 

The practice of feeding infants sweetened evapor- 
ated milk has grown enormously during recent years 
and has done incalculable damage to many thousands. Canned 
Canned milks are not fit food for infants and should be Milk Not 
used only when nothing else is available and then for ^^^^^ 
as short a time as possible. The bones do not develop peg^^ng 
normally on this food and physical weakness and low 
vitality in later life is almost sure to result. The 
death rate of infants is universally admitted to be ab- 
normally high where they are restricted to canned 
milk. No expense or trouble should be spared to 
obtain fresh, raw or pasteurized cow's or fresh goat's 
milk when nursing is impossible. 

The proper time to wean baby is when it is about 
a year old. At first it may be given cow's milk from 
a bottle, but it is not best to allow it to suck a nipple 
after baby is two years old. Half the feedings should Feeding 
be given from a bottle at first and the nursing contin- just After 
ued so as to wean it gradually. The milk which is fed Weaning 
to a young child should be warmed to body tempera- 
ture. About three tablespoonfuls of spinach should be 
continued daily after weaning. One or two table- 
spoonfuls of thoroughly cooked cereal, slightly salted, 
should be added to the milk daily and may be given at 
the times when the spinach is not fed. Baby should 
be given a piece of crisp toast or zwiebeck to chew 
once a day. Milk should remain the principal constit- 
uent of the diet and orange juice should be given 
regularly. An egg yolk may be given every other day 
instead of the spinach or the cereal, but one of these 
should be allowed every day. 

On such a dietary plan an infant which is given 
boiled water several times a day, and which is allowed 
sufficient sleep, will nearly always thrive. If it is not 

103 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

Let Baby growing, consult a doctor. Many babies are fretful 
to Sleep because they are handled so much that they do not 
get enough rest. It is wrong to entertain a baby 
more than a few minutes at a time. It should be 
taught from its earliest infancy to remain alone in 
a quiet room the greater part of the time. 

Do not give baby meat, tea or coffee, or sweet 
foods. These may not make it ill, but they pervert 
the appetite for the things which are best for it. Great 
care should be taken to cultivate during the first few 
years a liking for wholesome foods. 

After two years baby can be given more cereal, 
but the diet should consist largely of milk, egg yolk, 
Fruits for grccn vegetables, toast and crackers. Fruit juices 
*^^ rh"i? should always form a part of the daily food supply. 
A little scraped apple, if ripe, may be given occasion- 
ally, but orange juice or a little ripe banana is better. 
Tomato juice free from seeds is perfectly safe during 
the second year and thereafter, but should be given 
in but small amounts. Berries, either raw or cooked, 
are not safe foods for children, and fruits which are 
not thoroughly ripe are dangerous. 

During later childhood children should have about 
a quart of milk a day, and the rest of the diet should 
be planned around this necessary staple. They may 
Always Give eat freely of nearly all the dishes provided for the 
Children adult members of the family, but the consumption of 
^^^ik "^^^^ should be kept down to a very low limit. Care 
should be exercised not to form an appetite for sweet 
foods which will interfere with the enjoyment of the 
natural flavors of ordinary wholesome foods. It is 
not necessary to deny them an occasional sweet des- 
sert, and they may well be given candy or sugar, but 
always in small amounts and with a meal rather than 
after it. 

104 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Children should be trained to like all j^reen vege- 
tables, and a daily serving of carrots, turnips, rad- 
ishes or other products of the garden is advisable. 
Fruit may be offered as a lunch between meals when 
convenient rather than starchy or sweet foods, be- 
cause they leave the teeth freer from adhering matter 
which promotes decay. 

The main principle to be ke])t in mind in the feed- 
ing of growing children is that they should not be 
allowed to form the habit of deriving too large a part 
of their diet from meat, bread, potatoes, sugar and 
breakfast cereals. This mistake is now being fre- 
quently made in many otherwise well managed homes 
and the reports of the physical condition of the school 
children in many cities reflect its effects. Plain food 
should be chosen which is not so appetizing or habit- 
forming as to encourage over eating, but which meets 
all of the requirements of a well balanced food sup- 
ply and which will not lead to the development of an 
unfavorable type of bacterial population in the intes- 
tine. Constant use of milk of good quality, l)read, 
potatoes, cereals, fruits and abundant leafy vegetables 
fulfill these requirements. 

HARD FOODS HELP TO MAKE GOOD 
TEETH. The importance of furnishing something 
hard to chew on from early infancy is very great. 
Toast serves this purpose admirably during the first 
two years. After that time apples, crackers, hard 
bread, raw cabbage chopped as fine as possible with a 
meat chopper, cooked vegetables, lettuce, celery, etc., 
serve to develop the teeth. Children must be watched 
to see that they do not swallow their food without 
chewing. Too many children are allowed to grow up 
on soft foods. When we chew fibrous foods we exert 
a pressure of one hundred to two hundred and fifty 
pounds pressure on the teeth, and this insures a good 
circulation of blood in the inner part, and is a most 

105 



Cultivate 
a Liking 
for Green 
Vegetables 
In Children 



A Common 
Mistake. 



Children 
Should 
Have Some 
Hard Food 
for the 
Teeth 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



important factor in developing the teeth and jaws. 
The freedom from decay of the teeth among primi- 
tive peoples may be in some measure attributable to 
the necessity for vigorous efforts of the teeth made 
necessary by the tough meats, hard grains, fibrous 
fruits and vegetables w^hich furnish their food supply. 
Of 10,500 school children in England and Scot- 
land, 86 per cent had decayed teeth. Among 19,725 
children in northern Germany the percentage show- 
ing diseased teeth was 96. In a group of 3236 children 
Prevalence in Philadelphia, between the ages of 7 and 14 years, 
of Decayed 7^763 decayed permanent teeth were found. In Seat- 
^^^ tie, the histories of over 1100 children showed that 
42.6 per cent which had been nursed at least six 
months; 42.9 per cent of those which had been nursed 
less than six months and were then fed cows' milk, 
and 72.1 per cent of those which were fed in infancy 
on sweetened condensed milk, had decayed teeth. 
Similar results have been observed in other places. 

It has been commonly supposed in the past that 
the chewing of hard foods was solely responsible for 
the development of good teeth in savage peoples. It 
does have much to do with it, but all primitive peo- 
^^^J-^^h-^^ pies do not have good teeth. Marshall has pointed 
out that the teeth of meat eaters and of vegetarians 
are equally liable to decay. It seems that one of the 
most important factors in producing teeth of poor 
quality which early become infected, and which is 
now so common depends on the practice which is 
now widespread, of deriving too large a portion of 
the diet from muscle meats, modern milling products 
of cereal grains, and tubers. Such a diet is deficient 
in several respects, and the nature of these have been 
discussed already. According to this view the low 
vitality and inferiority of the teeth is but one mani- 
festation among many of poor physical development. 
Certainly our standards of physical stamina are fairly 

106 



Primitive 
Peoples 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

low, as is shown by the large number of young men 
who pass in every day life as normal, but who were 
found unfit for military service. Eating soft foods, 
which give the teeth no exercise; constant presence of 
pasty starchy deposits on the teeth and faulty selec- 
tion of food doubtless all combine to produce the 
serious condition which now prevails. 

Both for children and adults it is of importance 
that the last article eaten should be of such a nature ./^^l*J^.^!! 

1 1 1 o • 1 • Meal With 

as to cleanse the teeth, bticky pastries, cake and Fruits 
other carbohydrate foods tend to remain in the fis- 
sures of the teeth and are not easily removed by the 
tooth-brush. Carbohydrate residues tend to favor 
decay more than do meat particles. It would be best 
to eat a salad, cole slaw, celery, apple or other fibrous 
food at the end of the meal, since they tend not only 
to cleanse the teeth but exert a detergent action on 
dental caries. Acid fruits are doubtless best for this 
purpose because they stimulate the secretion of a 
strongly alkaline saliva which coats the teeth and 
preserves them from being etched by the decomposi- 
tion products of the food residues which would other- 
wise remain. 

The idea, which has been fostered by many ad- 
vertisements of dental creams, that the teeth should 
be scrubbed with some chemical preparation to re- "That Film' 
move "that film" is fallacious. The teeth should be On the 
covered with a film between meals, but it should be Teeth 
the natural film of a distinctly alkaline saliva. A 
dental floss should be used to remove particle from 
between the teeth, and they should be brushed after 
each meal. There is nothing better for this purpose 
than a high grade soap and water. The last saliva 
secreted will then cover the teeth, free from residues, 
with a film, and preserve them. 

The simple statement is frequently made that 
candy is bad for the teeth. It can be easily appreci- 

107 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

ated from what has been said that the matter cannot 
be dismissed in this way. Candy is a food as is sugar 
in any form, and may be taken with advantage if it 
Sugar and jg done in such a way as not to interfere with the 
B^dT^"h selection of a proper diet. The abuse of sweets is 
common and serious. It is as Httle excusable to cul- 
tivate in children a liking for highly sweetened foods 
so extreme as to amount to a craving, as it would be 
to form in them the habit of craving coffee, tea or 
alcohol. They lose thereby the ability to appreciate 
the natural flavors of wholesome foods and this mili- 
tates against their taking a diet which is satisfactory, 
and this leads to faulty nutrition with all its train of 
consequences. 

The advice contained in this chapter, insofar as it 
relates to the preservation of the teeth, can be fol- 
lowed by the adult members of the family with profit, 
which will be reaped in a diminished patronage of the 
dentist, and in deferred adoption of substitute teeth. 



108 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

PART II 

Remarks on the Menus 

It is best to serve small portions of meat, and then 
if desired let each member of the family ask for a 
second helping. This will aid in reducing the con- 
sumption of meat where the individual is desirous of 
doing so. 

Observe that ample provision is made for utiliz- 
ing left-overs in succeeding menus. This ever pres- 
ent problem can be easily solved. The frequent ap- 
pearance of cream soups, gravies, salads and scalloped 
dishes provides the way to introduce these into the 
succeeding meal in an attractive form. Dry bread 
is used in the scalloped dishes, puddings or stuffings. 
Home made ice cream is preferable for children 
because the wholesomeness of all the ingredients of 
which it is composed can be counted upon. 

In these menus the word fry has been used in the 
usual American sense rather than saute. 

These menus have been planned without regard 
to rigid economy, except in respect to the work re- 
quired in serving them. None are of such a nature 
as to require an expenditure of money greater than is 
usual in the average home, provided the meat con- 
sumption is kept down as far as is recommended. 
Good food is not cheap at the present time and food 
must be one of the principal items in the family 
budget. The last place to economize is on the food 
supply when that economy necessitates the consump- 
tion of a poorly constituted diet. The value of good 
food can be estimated only in terms of health and 
efficiency. 

Occasional menus are given which are faulty in 
one or more respects, and which serve to illustrate the 
kinds of mistakes which are commonly made in the 

109 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

selection of food in many households. These are in- 
cluded in order to bring home to the attention how 
easily a simple modification of an unsatisfactory meal 
may make it of good quality for the maintenance of 
health. 

It is preferable to use custards, puddings, cream 
pies or fruit for dessert rather than fruit pies. 

Although receipts have been included for some of 
the dishes for the convenience of the housewife, there 
are many details for which she will have to rely on 
a standard cook book. The few directions given are 
not expected to take the place of a manual of cook- 
ery. It is expected that the great majority of women 
who make use of these menus will possess a consid- 
erable knowledge of this art. 

Such decisions as the choice of French dressing, 
boiled dressing or mayonaise dressing, must be left 
to the individual, and will depend on the family pref- 
erence. 

In many instances a dislike for milk is not due to 
an actual sensitization toward the food, but to an 
aversion resulting from having taken at some time 
milk which had a bad flavor. The memory of such 
an experience may persist for a long time. If tainted 
milk is responsible for the dislike of it as a beverage, 
it can frequently be taken concealed in cooked foods. 

There are a few persons who are sensitive toward 
certain foods such as milk, eggs, strawberries, toma- 
toes, almonds or oatmeal, and are made ill by eating 
them. These always present a special problem. It 
has been found possible in some cases to relieve the 
condition, through the administration by a physician 
at frequent intervals, of very small doses of the pro- 
teins of the food which causes illness. They must 
not be given the offending food. 

The information concerning nutrition contained 
in the preceding chapters should be possessed by all 

110 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

the members of the family. Since they will probably 
not secure this for themselves, the mother should im- 
part it verbally, as part of the table conversation on 
suitable occasions. 

In selecting lettuce it is best to buy well formed 
heads. Rain spatters particles of soil on garden vege- 
tables, and the inner leaves of lettuce and cabbage 
are cleaner than the outer ones. The latter may be 
discarded when these are eaten raw in salads. 

The most suitable foods for consumption in the 
raw state are the fruits and nuts which are peeled 
or shelled before being served. Lettuce, cabbage and 
other green vegetables need to be washed with spe- 
cial care when they are to be eaten raw, because they 
have been in contact with the soil. This applies also 
especially to strawberries, which in many instances 
have lain in contact with the ground. 

A simple bread and milk supper was once com- 
mon in rural American homes. It is highly satis- 
factory from the standpoint of nutrition, and almost 
eliminates labor in its serving. It is a good policy 
to serve one occasionally. 

The appetite is not a safe guide in the selection 
of food. The teachings of science are just as reliable 
in dictating what we shall eat as they are in the reg- 
ulation of the composition of formulas in manufactur- 
ing processes. It is sound practice to prescribe what 
people shall eat, just as it is to prescribe what med- 
icines they shall take when ill. If people do not like 
wholesome foods because of habits formed in early 
life, they should learn to like them. Some will not 
listen to advice regarding diet, but wholesome advice 
should be sweetly given them, so that if they persist 
in ignoring sound principles, they will do so with 
their eyes open. 

The proper remedy for increasing plumpness and 
expanding waistband is not the elimination of starchy 

111 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

and fatty foods from the diet, but exercise and re- 
striction of the appetite, with frequent consultation 
of the scales. Always take a diet which is physiolog- 
ically complete, rather than one confined to meat and 
green vegetables on which one cannot grow fat even 
when eating to excess. 

The proper feeding of a group of people should 
not be regarded as simply a menial task, but as a 
public health enterprise. Successful feeding of the 
family means the application of modern knowledge 
to the planning of the diet, and makes it a profession 
in the field of preventive medicine rather than a busi- 
ness. 

Ask your city health officer whether the dealer 
from whom you buy your ice cream uses fresh milk 
and cream in its manufacture, or whether he uses stale 
products which have become unfit for marketing in 
the unfrozen state. Frozen milk and cream, masked 
with flavoring materials, cannot be judged as to their 
quality by the sense of taste. Some commercial ice 
cream is not wholesome, as is shown by an occasional 
outbreak of food poisoning following its consumption. 
Your health department should be able to advise you 
concerning the standards of your dealer. 

If you see at cat sleeping in your grocer's window 
with a fruit exhibit, tell him he will lose your patron- 
age if it occurs again. This is the way in which stand- 
ards are improved. 

It is better to buy wrapped bread when you get 
it from a wagon, rather than an unwrapped loaf 
which has been handled by several pairs of hands, 
and has been exposed to the dust of the street. If 
you visit the baker's shop this is not necessary. 

Never hesitate to tell your food dealers that you 
do not like to see flies having access to the foods 

112 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

which they sell. It helps to promote good health 
propaganda. If necessary, tell them where flies come 
from. 

Never allow flies in your kitchen. Remember that 
flies come from filth, like to visit filth, are carriers 
of disease, and will contaminate food. 

Always boil the water for the baby, and for all 
the family when there is a case of typhoid fever in 
the neighborhood. 

It is better to cultivate the habit of not using sugar 
on breakfast cereals. 



113 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



THE RIGHT AND WRONG KIND 

OF MENUS 

UNSATISFACTORY LUNCHES 
1. 

Canned Salmon Lemon Fried Potatoes 

Stewed Corn Butter Honey Bread 

2. 

Macaroni and Tomatoes Frankfurters 

Mustard Peas with salt and pepper 

Butter Apple Sauce Tea Bread 

3. 

Baked Potatoes Stewed Tomatoes 

Radishes CofiEee Bread Butter Syrup 

4. 

Hamburger Balls Boiled Rice 

Bread Butter Catsup 

Rhubarb Sauce 

These lunches illustrate a type of menu which is unfortunately 
fairly common in American homes. They represent the meat, bread 
and potato type of diet or its equivalent. Both bread and potatoes 
have similar dietary properties to other seed products such as rice, 
corn, peas, beans, etc., and the extension of variety in the menu by 
the addition of these, or by the inclusion of macaroni, spaghetti, 
sweet potatoes, radishes, turnips, beets or carrots fails to improve 
the meal to any great extent. They are presented here as examples 
of typical faulty diets. An understanding of the general principles of 
the selection of foods on a scientific basis makes it easy to interpret 
the nature of their faults. They are examples of what not to serve. 

SATISFACTORY LUNCHES 
1. 

Cream of Corn Soup Saltines 

Salmon Croquettes Butter Potato Cakes 

Baking Powder Biscuits Honey 

2. 

Cream of Pea Soup ' Saltines 

Potato Pufif Frankfurters Mustard 

Milk Apple Sauce 

3. 

Cream of Tomato Soup Croutons 

Scalloped Potatoes Bread Radishes Butter 

French Toast Syrup 

4. 

Creamed Dried Beef Boiled Rice 

Cabbage and Nut Salad Butter 

White Muffins Rhubarb Sauce 

This series of menus for lunches are set in contrast to those 
above. Probably no one would pronounce them superior to the latter 

114 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

in palatability or attractiveness, yet they are so constituted as to meet 
the needs of the body, while the ones opposite will not. There is no 
appreciable difference in the amount of labor required for their prepa- 
ration. The menus for the year which are presented in this book 
are planned to avoid just such mistakes as the housewife is liable to 
make who does not understand the peculiar properties of the foods 
she buys, and who relies entirely on the acceptability of the foods 
which she provides for her family. 

UNSATISFACTORY DINNERS 
1. 

Corn Beef Hash Boiled Potatoes 

Stewed Tomatoes Bread Butter 

Cofifee Mince Pie 

2. 

Pot Roast Gravy Browned Potatoes 

Buttered Peas and Carrots 

Bread Butter Fruit Gelatin Coffee 

3. 
Lamb Chops French Fried Potatoes 

Buttered Turnips Boiled Squash 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Apple Dumpling Hard Sauce 

4. 
_ Hamburger Layer Baked Potatoes 

Fried Onions Dill Pickles 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Gooseberry Pie 
The above menus illustrate errors which are frequently made in 
the planning of dinners. They represent the meat, bread and potato 
type of diet, and are not satisfactory for the promotion of health 
when adhered to over a considerable period. Fortunately, few adhere 
regularly to diet which is quite so bad as those described, but meals 
of this type cannot be regarded as satisfactory even when occasion- 
ally somewhat improved by the addition of small amounts of the 
protective foods, milk, and the leafy vegetables. Below is a series of 
menus which illustrate how simple it is to modify this kind of din- 
ner so as to make it decidedly more satisfactory for the promotion 
of health. 

SATISFACTORY DINNERS 

1. 

Corn Beef Hash Creamed Potatoes 

Beet Greens Chili Sauce Bread 

Butter Caramel Custard 

2. 

Pot Roast Gravy Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Peas Cole Slaw Bread 

Butter Coffee 

Lemon Pie 

3. 

Lamb Chops Creamed Potatoes 

Creamed Turnips Bread Butter 

Cabbage and Nut Salad 

Brown Betty Foamy Sauce 

115 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Hamburger Layer Baked Stuffed Potatoes 

Creamed Onions Bread Butter 

Milk Dill Pickles 

Chocolate Custard 

The above described dinners furnish a leafy vegetable, and in 
addition there are two dishes in which milk forms an important con- 
stituent. These additions correct the faults from the dietary stand- 
point, and make the diet complete. Each meal provides the mate- 
rials which circulate in the tissues of the body during several hours, 
and provide them w'ith the wherewithall to grow or to repair them- 
selves. It is important that each meal shall be planned so as to 
provide everything that the body needs, and in as nearly the right 
proportions as possible. The menus in this book comply with the 
requirements of modern scientific research in the field of nutrition. 

JANUARY 1. NEW YEAR'S DAY 

Breakfast 

Apples 

Oatmeal Sugar — Milk 

Toast Grape Jelly Butter 

Coflfee Cocoa 

Dinner 

Roast Duck Peanut Stuffing 

Mashed Potatoes Giblet Gravy 

Creamed Onions Spiced Peaches 

Bread Butter Olives 

Mince Pie or Pumpkin Pie 

Cofifee Milk 

Supper 

Cream of Tomato Soup Croutons 

Fruit Salad Cheese Crackers 

Tea Assorted Cakes Nuts Chocolate 

JANUARY 2 

Breakfast 

Oranges 

Cream of Wheat > Sugar — Milk 

Bacon or Poached Eggs Buttered Toast 

Coflfee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Creamed Tuna Fish Boiled Rice 

Cabbage Salad 
Milk Bread Butter 

Dinner 

Salmon Loaf Tomato Sauce 

Baked Potatoes Spinach with Hard Boiled Egg 

Butter Coflfee Bread Mixed Pickles 

Lemon Pie 

116 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

JANUARY 3 

Breakfast 

Bananas 

Cornmeal Mush with Raisins Milk 

Toast Butter Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Scalloped Potatoes Cucumber Pickles 

Bread Butter 

Apple Sauce 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Peas Currant Jelly 

Milk Bread Coffee Butter 

Apricot Fluff Custard Sauce 

JANUARY 4. (Sunday) 
Breakfast 

Grapefruit 

Oatmeal Milk 

Toast Butter Waffles Syrup 

Coffee Cocoa 

Dinner 

Roast Lamb Mint Sauce 

Brown Potatoes Celery 

Creamed Carrots Butter Bread 

Vanilla Ice Cream Saltines 

Chocolate Sauce Coffee 

Supper 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 

Potato Chips Butter Nut Bread 

Chocolate Marshmallows 

JANUARY 5 
Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Cream of Wheat Sugar — Milk 

Pork Sausages Toast Butter 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Cream of Celery Soup Saltines 

Scalloped Corn Pear Salad 

Cucumber Pickles Bread Butter 

Tea 

Dinner 

Roast Lamb Reheated in Gravy 

Mashed Potatoes Spinach 

Cabbage Salad 

Bread Butter Coffee Milk 

Apple Pie Cheese 

117 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Hominy- 
Bread 



JANUARY 6 
Breakfast 

Apples 



Buckwheat Cakes 
Butter 



Coffee 



Sugar — Milk 
Bacon 

Cocoa 



Lunch 

Cod Fish or Finnan Haddie 
Butter Potato Cakes 

Plum Conserve 

Dinner 
Stuffed Beef Heart 
Butter Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Onions 
Chocolate Custard 



White Sauce 

Mixed Pickles 
White Muffins 



Gravy 

Bread 
White Cookies 



Celery 



Oatmeal 
Butter 



JANUARY 7 

Breakfast 
Bananas 



Soft Boiled Eggs 



Oyster Stew 
Scalloped Potatoes 
Cottage Cheese Salad 



Boiled Tongue 

Baked Potatoes 
Butter 



Cocoa 
Lunch 

Butter 
Dinner 

Bread 



Toast 



Sugar— Milk 
Coffee 



Saltines 

Corn Bread 

Syrup 

Tomato Sauce 
Creamed Cabbage 

Milk 



Cherry Pudding with Sauce 



JANUARY 8 

Breakfast 

Baked Apples 



Cornmeal Mush 

Bacon Toast 
Coffee 


Sugar — Milk 
Butter 
Cocoa 


Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Macaroni and Cheese 
Watercress Salad 
Stewed Peaches 




Saltines 
Bread 
Butter 
Cream 


Dinner 

Meat Pie 

Mixed Pickle 
Butter Coffee 
Cottage Pudding 


F 


Creamed Carrots 
Raised Biscuits 

Milk 
oamy Sauce 


118 







WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

JANUARY 9 
Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Pettijohns Sugar — Milk 

Butter Toast Orange Marmalade 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Cream of Corn Soup Saltines 

Tuna Fish Salad Tea Butter 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

Honey 

Dinner 

Broiled Halibut Creamed Potatoes 

Fried Parsnips Cole Slaw 

Butter Bread Coffee 

Bread Pudding Vanilla Wafers 

JANUARY 10 
Breakfast 

Bananas 

Oatmeal Sugar — Milk 

Butter Poached Eggs on Toast 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Lima Beans in Casserole Cucumber Pickles 

Butter Tea Milk Bread 

Baked Apples Cream 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Turnips Dill Pickles 

Butter Bread 

Caramel Custard Whipped Cream 

JANUARY n. (Sunday) 
Breakfast 

Oranges 

Cream of Wheat Sugar — Milk 

Syrup Waffles Bacon Butter 

Coffee Cocoa 

Dinner 

Roast Beef Gravy 

Brown Potatoes Spinach 

Asparagus Salad Cranberry Jelly 

Bread Coffee Butter 

Vanilla Ice Cream Saltines 

Supper 

Oyster Stew Saltines 

Salted Peanuts Nut Bread 

Grape Conserve Butter 

White Cake Chocolate 

119 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



JANUARY 12 

Breakfast 

Apples 

Oatmeal Sugar — Milk 

Buckwheat Cakes Syrup Butter 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Cheese Souffle Baked Potatoes 

Banana and Nut Salad Bread 

Tea Milk Butter 

Dinner 

Roast Beef Reheated in Gravy 
Mashed Potatoes Creamed Celery 



Butter 



Bread 

Plain Jello with Custard Sauce 

Coffee 



Beet Pickles 



Cream of Wheat 
Butter 



Butter 



White Muffins 

Meat Loaf 
Creamed Potatoes 

Celery Hearts 
Brown Betty 



JANUARY 13 

Breakfast 
Stewed Prunes 

Toast 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Italian Spaghetti 

Waljjorf Salad 



Sugar — Milk 
Bacon 



Dinner 



Bread 
Vanilla Sauce 



Milk 



Strawberry Jam 



Gravy 
Creamed Lima Beans 
Butter 

Coffee 



Pettijohns 
Apple Jelly 



Butter 



JANUARY 14 
Breakfast 

Bananas 



Sugar — Milk 



Butter 



Jelly 



Toast 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Fish Chowder 

Cottage Cheese Salad 

Apple Sauce 

Popovers 

Dinner 

Reheated Meat Loaf Tomato Sauce Hash Brown Potatoes 

Brussel Sprouts Cole Slaw 

Bread Butter Milk Coffee 

Caramel Pie or Mince Pie 

120 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Oatmeal 



JANUARY 15 

Breakfast 

Oranges 



Butter 



Coffee 



Toast 



Lunch 



Sugar — Milk 
Rhubarb Conserve 



Cocoa 



Cream of Pea Soup 
Scalloped Corn 

Pineapple Sauce 


Bread 
Tea 






Croutons 
Butter 
Milk 


Dinner 

Broiled Ham 

Boiled Potatoes Celery 
Butter Bread 
Sliced Bananas 




C 


Milk Gravy 
reamed Carrots 

Coffee 
Cream 




JANUARY 


16 








Breakfast 










Apples 









Cornmeal Mush 

Scrambled Eggs 
Butter Toast 



Cocoa 



Sugar — Milk 
Bacon 

Coffee 



Lunch 

Creamed Tuna Fish Boiled Sweet Potatoes 

Cabbage and Nut Salad 



Butter 

Cherry Sauce 

Dinner 

Broiled Trout 

Mashed Potatoes 
Butter Lettuce Salad 

Cranberry Pie 



Bread 



Lemon Sauce 
Creamed Onions 

Bread 
Coffee 



Oatmeal 



Butter 



Coffee 



JANUARY 17 
Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Toast 
Lunch 

Bread 



Cocoa 



Sugar — Milk 

Apple Jelly 



Cream of Potato Soup Saltines 

Waldorf Salad Bread Orange Marmalade 

Butter Milk 

Dinner 

Lamb Stew with Dumplings 

Mashed Potatoes Boiled Cabbage with Dressing 

Tomato Relish Bread Butter 

Banana Custard or Bread Pudding 

121 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

JANUARY 18. (Sunday) 

Breakfast 

Baked Apples 

Cream of Wheat Sugar — Milk 

Griddle Cakes Bacon Butter 

Coffee Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Chicken Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Peas Celery 

Butter Cranberry Sauce Bread 

Vanilla Ice Cream Saltines 

Coffee 

Supper 

Shrimp or Salmon Salad 

Potato Chips Salted Peanuts 

Butter Bread Chocolate Cookies 

Milk 
Sliced Oranges with Cocoanut 

JANUARY 19 

Breakfast 

Bananas 

Pettijohns Sugar — Milk 

Soft Boiled Eggs Bread 

Coffee Cocoa Butter 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Baked Beans Catsup Bread Butter 

Cabbage and Apple Salad 

Milk 

Dinner 

Creamed Chicken Baked Potatoes 

Creamed Celery Bread 

Butter Lettuce and Pea Salad 

Vanilla Wafers Pineapple Whip Cream 

Coffee 

JANUARY 20 
Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Oatmeal Sugar — Milk 

Toast Bacon or Sausage 

Coffee Cocoa Butter 

Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Rice Saltines 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 

Bread Milk Butter 

Dinner 

Boiled Tongue Tomato Sauce 

Creamed Potatoes Creamed Carrots 

Butter Asparagus Salad Bread 

Grapefruit Coffee 

132 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 





JANUARY 21 
Breakfast 




Apple Sauce 
Cornmeal Mush with Raisins' 
Milk Toast 
Butter Waffles Syrup 


Coffee 

Cocoa 


Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
Scalloped Potatoes 

Pineapple and Celery Salad 
Tea Milk 


Croiitons 

Bread 

Butter 


Dinner 

Fried Oysters 
Potato Chips 

Creamed Lima Beans 
Bread Butter 

Lemon Pie 


Catsup 
Spinach with Egg 

Milk 




JANUARY 22 






Breakfast 




Cream of Wheat 
Milk Toast 


Oranges 

Coflfee 
Lunch 


Sugar — Milk 

Cocoa 



Creamed Dried Beef 
Lettuce Salad 



Baked Potatoes 
Bread 



Butter 

Baked Apple Stuflfed with Raisins 

Tea Cream 

Dinner 

Broiled Steak Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Asparagus Bread 

Butter Cole Slaw Coflfee 

Fruit Jello Whipped Cream 

JANUARY 23 

Breakfast 

Bananas 



Oatmeal 
Butter 

Oyster Stew 
White Muffins 



Bacon or Scrambled Eggs 

Toast Coffee 

Lunch 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Honey 

Milk 



Sugar — Milk 



Cocoa 



Saltines 



Butter 



Dinner 

Salmon Loaf Creamed Potatoes 

Creamed Onions or Brussel Sprouts 

Celery Bread Butter 

Bread Pudding 

Coffee 

123 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

JANUARY 24 
Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Pettijohns Sugar — Milk 

Butter Buckwheat Cakes ' Syrup 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Corn Chowder Cabbage and Celery Salad 

Bread Butter 

Canned Peaches Cream 

Dinner 

Broiled Ham and Eggs 

Mashed Potatoes Butter Bread 

Buttered Beets Milk 

Date Pudding Whipped Cream 

JANUARY 25. (Sunday) 

Breakfast 

Baked Apples 

Cream of Wheat Sugar — Milk 

Wafifles Coffee Cocoa 

Syrup Butter 

Dinner 

Roast Pork Mashed Potatoes 

Sauerkraut Cranberry Jelly 

Celery Bread Butter 

Lemon Sherbet Saltines Coffee 

Supper 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 

Olives Mixed Nuts 

Spiced Cake Chocolate 

JANUARY 26 
Breakfast 

Bananas 

Pettijohns Sugar — Milk 

Butter Toast Grape Conserve 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Cream of Celery Soup Saltines 

Hash Brown Potatoes Bread 

Frankfurters Mustard Butter 

Cherry Sauce 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Pork Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots Spinach with Bacon 

Tomato Relish Bread Butter 

Mince Pie or Tapioca Custard 

Milk Coffee 

124 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Oatmeal 



Coffee 



JANUARY 27 
Breakfast 

Stewed Apricots 

Poached Eggs on Toast 



Sugar — Milk 



Fish Chowder 
Bread 



Cocoa 
Limch 

Waldorf Salad 
Butter 



Dinner 



Stuffed Beef Heart 
Creamed Cabbage 

Cucumber Pickles 
Chocolate Pie 



Butter 



Italian Spaghetti 

Milk 

Mashed Potatoes 



Bread 



Butter 



Coffee 



Oatmeal 



Butter 



Toast 



JANUARY 28 
Breakfast 

Apples 

Waffles 
Coffee 

Lunch 



Sugar — Milk 

Pork Sausage 
Cocoa 



Croiitons 
Glazed Swejet Potatoes 
Milk 



Cream of Tomato Soup 
White Muffins 

Butter Stewed Prunes 

Dinner 

Pork Tenderloin Milk Gravy 

Mashed Potatoes Creamed Turnips 

Pear Salad Bread Butter 

Cherry Pudding with Sauce 



Butter 



Cream of Wheat 
Bread 



JANUARY 29 
Breakfast 

Oranges 

Bacon 
Coffee 



Creamed Tuna Fish 
Cottage Cheese Salad 

Tea 

Meat Pie 

Creamed Peas 
Bread Butter 

Cottage Pudding 



Sugar — Milk 

Potato Cakes 
Cocoa 



Lunch 



Baked Potatoes 
Butter Bread 

Pear Sauce 



Dinner 



125 



Spinach 
Celery 
Coffee Milk 

Foamy Sauce 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 





JANUARY 30 






Breakfast 




Pettijohns 


Bananas 


Sugar — Milk 


Toast 


Strawberry Jam 


Butter 


Coffee 


Lunch 


Cocoa 


Cream of Pea Soup 




Saltines 


Ham Omelet 




Hash Brown Potatoes 


Butter 


Bread 
Dinner 


Apple Sauce 


Lamb Chops 




Mashed Potatoes 


Creamed Cabt 


»age 


Dill Pickles 


Bread Coffe 


e 


Butter Milk 


Apricot Sherbet Oatmeal Cookies 


Brown Betty 


JANUARY 31 

Breakfast 

Baked Apples 


Hard Sauce 


Oatmeal 




Sugar — Milk 


Soft Boiled Eggs 




Toast 


Butter 


Coffee 
Lunch 


Cocoa 


Cream of Corn Soup 


Saltines 


Scalloped Potatoes 




Cole Slaw 


Butter 


Baked Bananas 
Dinner 


Bread 


Corn Beef Boile 


d Potatoes 


Carrots and Cabbage 


Bread Butter 


Chili Sauce 
Lemon Pie 


Coffee Milk 



FEBRUARY 1. (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Roast Chicken Giblet Gravy 

Mashed Potatoes Stuffing 

Creamed Cauliflower Bread 

Butter Celery Coffee Milk 



Butter 



Vanilla Ice Cream 
Oyster Stew 
Devil's Fruit Cake 



Supper 

Nut Bread 



Saltines 

Crackers 

Apple Jelly 
Chocolate 



FEBRUARY 2 
Lunch 

Cream of Celery Soup Saltines 

Corn Beef Hash Waldorf Salad 

Bread Butter Milk 

Dinner 

Creamed Chicken in Pastry Cases 

Mashed Potatoes Creamed Peas 

Butter Cottage Cheese Salad Bread 

Custard Pie Coffee 

126 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



FEBRUARY 3 

Lunch 

Lima Beans in Casserole 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad 



Butter 



Liver and Bacon 
Butter 

Cole Slaw 
Pineapple Sponge 



White Muffins 
Dinner 



Spiced Peaches 
Tea 



Baked Potatoes 
Creamed Carrots 
Bread 
Whipped Cream 



FEBRUARY 4 

Lunch 
Cream of Tomato Soup 



Scalloped Potatoes 
Bread 
Carrot Marmalade 



Asparagus on Toast 
Raised Biscuits 



Dinner 

Meat Pie 
Spinach 



Croutons 
Pea and Carrot Salad 
Butter 

Milk 



Butter 



Banana and Nut SalaJ 
Orange Custard 
Coffee 



Creamed Dried Beef 
Baking Powder Biscuits 



Boiled Tongue 
Mashed Potatoes 
Bread 
Chocolate Souffle 



FEBRUARY 5 
Lunch 

Lettuce Salad 
Butter 

Dinner 



Boiled Rice 

Honey 

Tomato Sauce 

Creamed Onions 
Butter 

Cream 



FEBRUARY 6 
Lunch 



Cream of Potato Soup 
Cheese Souffle 
Butter Apple Sauce 



Saltines 
Green Onions 

Bread Tea 



Dinner 

Broiled Halibut Lemon Sauce 

Glazed Sweet Potato.es Mixed Pickles 

Creamed Cabbage Bread Butter 

Creamed Rice with Dates 



Raisin and Cranberry Pie 
127 



Cheese 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

FEBRUARY 7 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Baked Beans Catsup Cole Slaw 

Bread Butter Milk Tea 

Dinner 

Cold Tongue Creamed Potatoes 

Spinach with Bacon Stewed Tomatoes 

Butter Bread Coffee Spiced Currants 

Caramel Custard Cream 

FEBRUARY 8 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Roast Lamb Brown Potatoes 

Creamed Celery Gravy 

Waldorf Salad Currant Jelly 

Coffee Butter Milk Bread 

Chocolate Ice Cream Sugar Cookies 

Supper 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad 

Bread Butter Orange Marmalade 

Chocolate Apples 

FEBRUARY 9 

Lunch 

Scalloped Corn Italian Spaghetti 

Cabbage and Nut Salad Butter Bread Milk 

Canned Peaches Cream 

Dinner 

Roast Lamb Reheated in Gravy 

Mashed Potatoes Creamed Carrots 

Lettuce Salad Bread Butter 

Apple Pie Cheese 

FEBRUARY 10 
Lunch 

Oyster Stew Saltines 

Scalloped Apples Cottage Cheese Salad 

Syrup Cornmeal Muffins Butter 

Dinner 

Meat Loaf Tomato Sauce 

Creamed Potatoes Boiled Cabbage with Dressing 

Bread Butter 

Chocolate Custard Cream 

128 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



FEBRUARY 11 
Lunch 



Creamed Codfish 
Celery Bread 

Sliced Oranges and Cocoanut 



Baked Potatoes 
Tea Butter 

Oatmeal Cookies 



Dinner 

Rice and Left-over Meat in Casserole 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes Creamed Parsnipj 

Cabbage and Nut Salad Bread Butter Milk 



Cottage Pudding Foamy Sauce 




Coffee 


FEBRUARY 12 






Lunch 






Cream of Celery Soup 

Macaroni and Cheese 




Saltines 


Green Onions 
Stewed Raisins 
Bread 




Cream 

Butter 


Dinner 






Lamb Stew with Dumplin 
Dill Pickles 
Buttered Beets 

Bread Butter 

Cherry Pudding with Sai 


igs 
jce 


Creamed Turnips 
Milk 


FEBRUARY 13 






Lunch 






Fish Chowder 







Beet and Cabbage Salad 

Baking Powder Biscuits 



Butter 



Honey 



Salmon Loaf 
Bread 



Dinner 

Spinach with Egg 

Coffee 

Grapefruit 



Creamed Potatoes 
Butter 



Vegetable Soup 



FEBRUARY 14 
Lunch 



Creamed Salmon on Toast 
Baked Apple 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops 

Creamed Peas 
Butter 



Saltines 



Cream 



Mashed Potatoes 
Celery 

Milk 



Orange Salad 



Raised Biscuits 



139 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



FEBRUARY 15 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Chicken Mashed Potatoes or Boiled Rice 

Creamed Cauliflower Brussel Sprouts 



Bread Butter 

Apricot Sherbet 



Oyster Stew 

Sandwiches — Peanut Butter 
Chocolate 



or 
Supper 

Saltines 



Milk Coffee 

Cranberry Pie 



Pimento Cheese 
Sponge Cake 



Olives 



FEBRUARY 16 

Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Rice 
Vegetable Salad (leftovers) 
Butter White Muffins 



Dinner 



Saltines 
Creamed Lima Beans 
Cranberry Sauce 



Liver and Bacon 

Creamed Carrots 
Bread 

Fruit Jello 



Glazed Sweet Potatoes 
Cabbage Salad 

Butter 
Custard Sauce 



FEBRUARY 17 
Lunch 

Creamed Dried Beef 
Waldorf Salad Bread 

Orange Marmalade 

Dinner 



Baked Potatoes 
Milk 



Butter 



Baked Stuffed Heart 
Creamed Onions 
Bread 
Date Pudding 


Mashed Potatoes 
Lettuce 
Butter 
Whipped Cream 


Salad 


FEBRUARY 18 






Lunch 






Cream of Tomato Soup 
Stuffed Egg Salad 
Bread 

Pineapple Sauce 


Croutons 

Scalloped 

Butter 


Corn 


Dinner 






Ramburger Layer 
Spinach with Bacon 

Bread Butter 
Cherry Pie' 


Creamed Potatoes 
Cole 
Coffee 
Cheese 


Slaw 



130 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



FEBRUARY 19 

Lunch 

Cream of Potato Soup 
Rice Souffle 

Banana Fritters 
Bread 

Dinner 

Baked Ham Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Parsnips Cabbage and Nut Salad 



Bread 



Butter 
Lemon Pie 



Saltines 
Watercress Salad 
Sauce 

Butter 



Milk 



FEBRUARY 20 

Lunch 
Creamed Tuna Fish 
Apple and Raisin Salad 

Strawberry Jam 

Dinner 

Baked Stuffed Haddock 
Mashed Potatoes 

Pickled Pears Butter 

Orange Custard 



Boiled Rice 
Baking Powder Biscuits 
Butter 



Egg Sauce 

Creamed Peas 
Bread 



FEBRUARY 21 

Lunch 

Cream of Pea Soup Croutons 

Hash Brown Potatoes 
White Muffins 

Canned Peaches Cream 



Dinner 

Cold Ham 

Baked Squash 
Banana and Nut Salad Bread 

Rice Pudding with Dates 



Butter 



Creamed Potatoes 
Catsup 
Butter Coffee 

Cream 



FEBRUARY 22 (Sunday) 



Roast Veal Brown Potatoes 

Creamed Cauliflower Creamed Onions 

Celery Olives Bread Butter 

Washington Cream Pie 

Coffee 



Canned Salmon 
Butter 



Supper 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad 
Nut Bread 

131 



Lemon 
Chocolate 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET. OR 

FEBRUARY 23 
Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Baked Beans Catsup Cole Slaw 

Bread Butter Milk Canned Peaches 

Dinner 

Veal Croquettes Potato Puff 

Creamed Carrots Cucumber Pickles 

Bread Butter Coffee Milk 

Banana Cream Pie 

FEBRUARY 24 
Lunch 

Waldorf Salad Italian Spaghetti 

Graham Muffins Cuijant Jelly 

Milk Butter 

Dinner 

Pork Tenderloin Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Turnips Scalloped Apples 

Bread Butter Tapioca Custard 

FEBRUARY 25 
Lunch 



Cream of Corn Soup 

Egg, 
Bread 


Olive 
Crati 


and Potato 
iberry Sauce 


Saltines 
Salad 

Butter 






Dinner 






Boiled Tongue 
Baked Potatoes 

Cole Slaw 
Coffee 

Caramel Pie 




Bread 
or B 


read 


Tomato Sauce 

Spinach with Egg 

Butter 

Milk 
Pudding 



FEBRUARY 26 
Lunch 

Scalloped Oysters Apple and Raisin Salad 

Bread Doughnuts Butter Coffee 

Dinner 

Cold Tongue Creamed Potatoes 

Buttered Beets Tomato Sauce Asparagus Salad 

Bread Butter 

Brown Betty Hard Sauce 

FEBRUARY 27 
Lunch 

Fish Chowder Macaroni and Peanut Butter 

Cornmeal Muffins Syrup 

Butter Tea Milk 

Dinner 

Salmon Loaf or Roast Pork Mashed Potatoes 

Sauer Kraut Creamed Onions 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Grapefruit 

132 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



FEBRUARY 28 
Lunch 



Creamed Dried Beef 

Raisin Bread 
Banana and Nut Salad 



Cold Roast Pork 

Creamed Peas 
Cole Slaw 
Prune Whip 



Butter 



Boiled Rice 
Milk 



Dinner 

or Salmon Croquettes 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes 
Bread Butter 

Custard Sauce 







MARCH 1. (Sunday) 










Breakfast 






Cream of Wheat 

Waffles 
Syrup 




Oranges 

Bacon 
Coffee 

Dinner 




Sugar — Milk 
Butter 

Cocoa 


Roast Beef 
Creamed Turnips 

Spiced Peach( 
Vanilla 


;s 
Ice 


Gravy 

Bread 
: Cream 


B 


rown Potatoes 
Creamed Asparagus 

Butter 
Saltines 



Supper 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 
Salted Peanuts Chocolate 



Layer Cake 



Oatmeal 

Poached Eggs 
Coffee 



MARCH 2 
Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Toast 



Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Baked Beans 
Waldorf Salad 



Lunch 

Butter 
Bread 

Dinner 

Reheated Roast Beef 

Gravy Creamed Onions 

Butter Bread 

Raisin Pie 

133 



Sugar — Milk 
Butter 



Cocoa 



Saltines 
Catsup 

Milk 



Mashed Potatoes 
Pepper Relish 

Coffee 
Cheese 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



MARCH 3 

Breakfast 

Apple Sauce 
Pettijohns 
Butter Toast 

Coffee 

Lunch 

Macaroni and Cheese 
Butter White Muffins 

Pineapple Sauce 



Broiled Ham 
Buttered Beets 

Bread 
Caramel Custard 



Dinner 



Sugar — Milk 
Orange Marmalade 
Toast 



Cole Slaw 



Tea 



Creamed Potatoes 

Spinach 
Butter 

Cream 



Cream of Wheat 
Butter 

Coffee 

Vegetable Soup 
Glazed Sweet Potatoes 
Butter 



MARCH 4 
Breakfast 

Bananas 

Griddle Cakes 
Lunch 



Sugar — Milk 
Syrup 



Cocoa 

Saltines 



Milk 
Banana and Nut Salad 



Bread 



Dinner 



Rice and Meat (leftover) in Casserole 
Creamed Carrots Cucumber Pickles 



Butter 



Raised Biscuits 
Cherry Pudding 



Strawberry Jam 
Sauce 









MARCH 5 








Breakfast 


Oatmeal 

Bacor 


I or Scran: 
Coffee 


ibled 


Stewed Prunes 

Eggs 

Cocoa 

Lunch 



Creamed Dried Beef 
Pickled Pears 
Butter 

Breaded Veal Cutlets 

Creamed Cabbage 
Bread 



Sugar — Milk 
Toast 



Butter 



Baked Potatoes 
Baking Powder Biscuits 
Honey Milk 

Dinner 

Mashed Potatoes 
Dill Pickles 
Butter Bread Pudding 

134 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Pettijohns 
Toast 



Butter 



MARCH 6 

Breakfast 

Apples 

Coffee 
Lunch 



Sugar — Milk 
Potato Cakes 



Cocoa 



Creamed Tuna Fish 
Grapefruit and Celery Salad 
Tea 



Bread 



Dinner 



Broiled Halibut 

Spinach with 
Bread 


Egg 


Butter 
Lemon Pie 

MARCH 7 
Breakfast 


Oatmeal 
Cocoa Omelet 


Bananas 
Toast 






Lunch 



Cream of Potato Soup 
Italian Spaghetti 

Baked Apples 



Bread 



Meat Loaf 
Creamed Onions 
Bread 

Brown Betty 



Dinner 

Gravy 

Butter 



Boiled Rice 
Milk 



Butter 



Creamed Potatoes 
Chili Sauce 
Coffee 



Sugar — Milk 
Coffee Butter 



Saltines 



Cream 



Butter 



Mashed Potatoes 

Cole Slaw 
Milk 
Hard Sauce 



Cornmeal Mush 
Butter Waffles 



Roast Chicken 
Creamed Carrots 

Spiced Peaches 
Fruit Jello 



MARCH 8. (Sunday) 
Breakfast 
Grapefruit 

Syrup 
Dinner 

Stuffing 

Bread 



Oyster Stew 
Nut Bread 



Sugar — Milk 
Coffee Cocoa 



Giblet Gravy 
Mashed Potatoes 
Butter 
Whipped Cream 



Supper 



Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 

Butter 

Marshmallows 

135 



Crackers 

Chocolate 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



MARCH 9 
Breakfast 

Bananas 



Pettijohns 
Soft Boiled Eggs 

Coffee 



Scalloped Potatoes 
. Butter 



Toast 
Lunch 
Cottage Cheese Salad 
Banana Fritters Sauce 



Sugar — Milk 



Butter 



Cocoa 

Cucumber Pickles 
Bread 



Creamed Chicken 
Spinach with Bacon 
Bread 
Date Pudding 



Dinner 



Butter 



Baked Stuffed Potatoes 

String Bean Salad 
Coffee 
Whipped Cream 



Oatmeal 
Bacon Butter 



MARCH 10 
Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Toast 
Lunch 



Sugar — Milk 
Coffee Cocoa 



Chicken Soup with Noodles 
Creamed Peas on Toast 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad 
Bread Tea Milk 



Saltines 



Butter 
Wafers 



Boiled Tongue 
Mashed Potatoes 
Cole Slaw 

Cup Cake 



Dinner 

Bread 



Tomato Sauce 

Creamed Carrots 
Butter 
Foamy Sauce 



MARCH 11 

Breakfast 

Pettijohns Stewed Apricots Sugar — Milk 

Griddle Cakes Pork Sausages 

Butter Toast Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 
Cream of Pea Soup 
Lettuce Salad 

Bread 

Apple Sauce 

Dinner 

Swiss Steak Mashed Potatoes Fried Onions 

Buttered Beets Butter Bread 

Rice Custard Cream 

136 



Croutons 
Hash Brown Potatoes 
Butter 
Cream 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Cream of Wheat 
Toast 

Cofifee 



MARCH 12 
Breakfast 

Bananas 

Cocoa 
Lunch 



Sugar — Milk 
Orange Marmalade 
Butter 

Saltines 
Steamed Brown Bread 

Catsup 
Cream 

Creamed Potatoes 
Apple and Date Salad 
Coffee 
Cream 

Cheese 



Sugar — Milk 
Coffee Cocoa 

Syrup 



Saltines 



Honey 



Catsup 



Butter 



Vegetable Soup 
Baked Beans 
Butter 

Stewed Apricots 

Dinner 
Cold Tongue 
Creamed Cabbage 

Bread Butter 

Caramel Custard 

or 
Raisin Pie 

MARCH 13 
Breakfast 

Prunes 
Oatmeal 
Bacon Waffles 

Butter 

Lunch 
Cream of Potato Soup 
Codfish Cakes 

Baking Powder Biscuits 
Milk _ Tea 

Dinner 
Salmon Loaf 
Creamed Onions 
Bread 
Chocolate Steamed Pudding 

MARCH 14 
Breakfast 

Oranges 
Cornmeal Mush 
Toast Butter 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 
Cream of Celery Soup 
Potato Puff 

Bread Butter 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Dinner 

Meat Pie Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad Dill Pickles 

Bread Butter Milk Coffee 

Prune Whip Custard Sauce 

137 



Mashed Potatoes 

Butter 
Hard Sauce 



Celery 



Sugar — Milk 

Scrambled Eggs 



Saltines 
Spiced Peaches 
Tea 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



MARCH 15. (Sunday) 
Breakfast 

Baked Apples 

Pettijohns Sugar — Milk 

Waffles Syrup Butter 

Coffee Cocoa 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Brown Potatoes Gravy 

Creamed String Beans Cole Slaw 

Olives Bread Butter Coffee 

Apricot Sherbet Oatmeal Cookies 

or Fruit Jello and Whipped Cream 

Supper 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 



Salted Peanuts 



Butter 



Pineapple Salad 


Chocolate 




Layer Cake 






MARCH 16 












Breakfast 








Cream of Wheat 

Omelet or Bacon 
Coffee 

Vegetable Soup 

Waldorf Salad 
Butter 

C: 


ike 


Oranges 

Cocoa 
Lunch 

(left from Sun 
Dinner 


day) 




Sugar — Milk 
Toast 
Butter 

Saltines 
Bread 
Milk 


Pot 
Mashed Potatoes 

Green Onions 


Roast Reheated in Gravy 
Rhubarb Conserve 
Bread 
Lemon Pie 


Creamed Turnips 
Butter 






MARCH 17 












Breakfast 








Oatmeal 

Potato Cakes 
Apple Jelly 




Apples 

Toast 
Coffee 






Sugar — Milk 
Butter 

Cocoa 


Cream of Tomato 
Creamed Tuna Fish 
Bread 


Lunch 
Soup 

Tea 






Croiitons 

Boiled Rice 
Butter 



Sliced Oranges and Shredded Cocoanut 

Dinner 

Hamburger Layer Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Cabbage Gravy 

Butter Celery Bread Coffee 

Waldorf Salad Cheese Crackers 

138 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



MARCH 18 
Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 
Cornmea! Mush 

Griddle Cakes Syrup 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lxinch 

Corn Chowder 
Macaroni and Cheese 
Cole Slaw Butter 

Nut Cookies 

Dinner 

Veal Cutlets in Casserole 
Creamed Potatoes 

Watercress Salad 

Butter 
Chocolate Bread Pudding 



Sugar — Milk 
Butter 



Bread 



Milk 



Buttered Beets 
Bread 



MARCH 19 

Bananas 



Cream of Wheat 



Toast 



Butter Coffee 

Lunch 
Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 
Gingerbread Butter 

Canned Peaches 

Dinner 
Reheated Veal Cutlets 
Creamed Onions 



Sugar— Milk 

Strawberry Jam 
Cocoa 



Milk 



Cream 



Mashed Potatoes 

Chili Sauce 



Butter 



Asparagus Salad 
Washington Cream Pie 



Bread 



Pettijohns 
Soft Boiled Eggs 



Coffee 



Italian Spaghetti 
Apple and Raisin Salad 
Tea 

Broiled Halibut 
Spinach 

Dill Pickle 
Coffee 



MARCH 20 
Breakfast 
Oranges 

Toast 
Lunch 

Bread 
Dinner 

Bread 
Apple Pie 

139 



Cocoa 



Sugar — Milk 



Butter 



Scalloped Corn 



Butter 



Rhubarb Sauce 



Creamed Potatoes 

Stewed Tomatoes 
Butter 

Cheese 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

MARCH 21 
Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Oatmeal Sugar — Milk 

Bacon or Poached Eggs 

Toast Butter Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup Saltines 

Scalloped Potatoes Chow-Chow 

Cabbage and Nut Salad 

Butter Bread 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops Baked Stuffed Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots Currant Jelly 

Celery Bread Butter 

Chocolate Custard Sugar Cookies 

MARCH 22. (Sunday) 
Breakfast 

Apples 

Cream of Wheat Sugar — Milk 

Toast Coffee Cocoa Butter 

Carrot Marmalade 

Dinner 

Broiled Steak Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Cabbage Olives 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad 

Butter Coffee Bread 

Vanilla Ice Cream Chocolate Sauce 

Saltines 

Supper 



Tuna Fish Salad 






Nul-Bread 


Grape Conserve 


Chocolate 
Sugar Cookies 

MARCH 23 
Breakfast 

Bananas 




Butter 


Oatmeal 






Milk 


Butter 


Griddle Cakes 




Syrup 


Coffee 




Cocoa 




Lunch 






Creamed Dried Beef 






Baked Potatoes 


Cole Slaw- 




Whi 


te Muffins 


Butter 




Tea 





Dinner 

Stuffed Beef Heart Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Onions Buttered Beets 

Mixed Pickle Bread Butter 

Tapioca Cream Coffee 

140 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Pettijohns 

Bacon or Scrambled Eggs 

Coffee 



MARCH 24 
Breakfast 

Prunes 



Cocoa 

Lunch 

Cream of Pea Soup 
Scalloped Potatoes Butter 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Dinner 

Roast Pork Gravy 



Sugar — Milk 
Butter 



Toast 



Croutons 
Graham Muffins 



Mashed Potatoes 



Sauer Kraut 
Cabbage and Beet Salad 
Butter 

Lemon Pie 



Cucumber Pickles 



Coffee 
Bread 



MARCH 26 

Oranges 

Coffee 
Lunch 
Cream of Potato Soup 



Cream of Wheat 
Milk Toast 



Sugar — Milk 



Cocoa 



Saltines 
Spiced Currants 
Butter 



Macaroni and Cheese 
Bread 

Baked Apple Stuffed with Raisins 
Cream 

Dinner 

Roast Pork Reheated in Gravy 

Creamed Potatoes Spinach with Bacon 

Green Onions Bread Butter 

Prune Whip with Custard Sauce 



Waffles 



Oatmeal 



Coffee 



MARCH 26 

Breakfast 

Bananas 

Syrup 
Lunch 



Baked Beans 
Catsup 

Milk 

Canned Peaches 



Meat Pie 
Buttered Turnips 
Bread 



Cocoa 



Dinner 



Milk — Sugar 



Butter 



Butter 



Cherry Pudding 



Cole Slaw 
Cornmeal Muffins 

Butter 
Cream 

Creamed Onions 

Radishes 
Coffee 
Sauce 



141 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

MARCH 27 
Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Pettijohns Sugar — Milk 

Creamed Eggs on Toast Butter 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Fish Chowder 

Spaghetti and Tomatoes Bread 

Butter Tea Rhubarb Sauce 

Dinner 

Salmon Croquettes with Creamed Peas 

Mashed Potatoes Spinach 

Olives Bread Butter 

Apple Tapioca Cream 

MARCH 28 

Breakfast 

Apples 

Cream of Wheat Sugar — Milk 

Butter Sausage Toast Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Scalloped Corn Green Onions 

Bread Butter 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Dinner 

Broiled Ham Baked Potatoes 

Milk Gravy Creamed Lima Beans 

Coffee Celery Bread Butter 

Pineapple Sauce 

MARCH 29. (Sunday) 

Breakfast 

Grapefruit 

Cornmeal Mush with Raisins Milk 

Toast Orange Marmalade 

Butter Coffee Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Chicken Mashed Potatoes or Boiled Rice 

Creamed New Asparagus Radishes 

Lettuce Salad Bread Butter 

Coffee Fruit Jello Whipped Cream 

Supper 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 
Sandwiches [Peanut Butter Milk 

\Pimento Cheese Tea 

Devil's Food Cake 

142 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

MARCH 30 

Breakfast 

Oranges 

Oatmeal Sugar— Milk 

Bacon Toast Butter 

Coffee Cocoa 

Lunch 

Cream of Celery Soup Saltines 

Potato Puff Lima Beans in Casserole 

Bread Butter 

Stewed Prunes and Apricots 

Dinner 

Pork Tenderloin Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots Green Onions 

Bread Butter' Milk 

Brown Betty Foamy Sauce 



MARCH 31 

Bananas 

Pettijohns Sugar — Milk 

Poached Egps on Toast 

Coffee Cocoa Butter 

Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Rice 

Scalloped Potatoes Bread 

Cole Slaw Butter 

Apple Fritters Sauce 

Dinner 

Veal Stew with Dumplings 

Spinach with Bacon Buttered Beets 

Chili Sauce Bread Butter 

Milk Orange Custard 



APRIL 1. (Thursday) 

Lunch 

Cream of Potato Soup Saltines 

Waldorf Salad White Muffins 

Honey Milk Butter 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Brown Potatoes Creamed Onions 

Mixed Pickles Gravy Bread 

Coffee Butter Chocolate Bread Pudding 

143 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



APRIL 2 
Lunch 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 
Pineapple Salad 

Creamed Rice with Raisins 



Baked Shad 
Mashed Potatoes 
Bread 



Dinner 

Butter 

Radishes 

Washington Cream Pie 



Bread 



Butter 



Cream 



Lemon Sauce 

Creamed Peas 
Milk 



APRIL 3 
Lunch 



Cream of Pea Soup 
Scalloped Potatoes 

Bread 



Croiitons 
Green Onions 



Butter 



Rhubarb Sauce 

Dinner 

Reheated Pot Roast in Gravy 



Creamed Asparagus Lettuce Salad 

Bread Butter 

Banana Custard 



Baked Potatoes 
Coffee 
Gingerbread 



APRIL 4. (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Roast Veal Brown Potatoes 

Spinach Gravy Creamed Lima Beans 

Bread Butter Coffee Olives 

Vanilla Ice Cream Saltines Caramel Sauce 

Supper 

Oyster Stew or Clam Chowder 

Salmon and Orange Salad Cheese Straws 

Mint Patties Bread 

Butter Lemonade 



APRIL 5 
Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup Croutons 

Baked Beans Cabbage Salad 

Bread Butter Milk 

Stewed Prunes 

Dinner 

Rice and Veal in Casserole 

Creamed Carrots Radishes 

Coffee Watercress Salad Bread Butter 

Pineapple Sponge Cream 

144 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



APRIL 6 
Lunch 



Creamed Dried Beef 
Cucumber Pickles 

Graham Muffins 
Sliced Bananas 



Dinner 



Baked Ham 
Sauer Kraut 

Bread 
Date Pudding 



Baked Potatoes 

Butter 
Milk 
Cream 



Creamed Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad 
Butter 
Whipped Cream 



APRIL 7 
Lunch 

Cream of Corn Soup 
Scalloped Potatoes 
Bread 

Canned Peaches 



Saltines 

Cole Slaw 
Butter 



Cream 



Dinner 

Cold Ham Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Peas Catsup Coflfee 

Watercress Salad Bread Butter 

Banana Cream Pie 

APRIL 8 
Lunch 

Creamed Ham Boiled Rice or Baked Potatoes 

Orange Salad Bread Milk 

Baking Powder Biscuits Honey 

Dinner 

Hamburger Layer Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Fresh Asparagus Coffee 

Bread Butter Olives 

Chocolate Soufifle Creamy Sauce 



APRIL 9 

Lunch 

Fish Chowder 
Waldorf Salad Bread 

Rice Pudding with Dates 

Dinner 

Salmon Loaf 
Spinach with Egg 
Bread 
Jello with Custard Sauce 

145 



Butter 
Cream 

Mashed Potatoes . 

Green Onions 
Butter 
Spice Cookies 



'rill'. a]\i1':kk "AN home diet, or 

APRIL 10 

Lunch 

VcKctablo Soup Saltines 

riikUil I'i.ns I'\"ot or l''rankfur(ois Milk 

Potato Cakes Hrcad Butter 

Slicoil OiauROs with Cocoaiuit 

Dinner 

Uoih>d Totiiiiic Tomato Sauce 

T^akiul StiilToil Potatoes Creamed String Beans 

CotYee Uadislies Bread Butter 

CluMrv Pudding Sauce 



Roast lU'of 
Creamed l-'resh Asparagus 

Bread Butter 

Clioccikite Tec Cream 



APRIL 11. (Sunday) 

Dinner 
Gravy 



Supper 



Tongue Samlwichcs 

Cheese Sandwiches 
Spice Cookies 



Mashed Potatoes 
Cucumber Pickles 
Coffee Milk 

Saltines 



Lettuce and Radish Salad 
Apricot Sauce 
Chocolate 



APRIL 12 
Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Souv^ 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 
reread ^ Butter 

Rlnibarb Sauce 

Dinner 

Roast Beef Reheated in Gravv 



Croutons 

Cole Slaw 



Baked Potatoes 
Green Onions 



Broad 
Grapefruit 



Creamed Lima Beans 
Butter 



Butt« 



APRIL 13 
Lunch 

\'egetable Soup 
(.'reamed Peas on Toast 
r Ginger Bread 

Cherrv Sauce 



l.i\er and B.icon 
Creamed (.">nions 
Bread 
Brown Bettv 



Dinner 



lit; 



Saltine; 



Milk 



CotYee 



Creamed Potatoes 
Chili Sauce or Radishes 

Butter 
Hard Sauce 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



APRIL 14 
Lunch 



Creamed Eggs on Toast 
Cabbage and Nut Salad 
Cornineal Muffins 



Butter 
Syrup 



Milk 



Dinner 



Laml) Stew with DumpliuKS 

Creamed Carrots Lettuce and Onion Salad 

Raisin Bread Coffee Butter 

Apricot Sherbet or Apricot Fluff with Custard Sauce 

White Cake 



APRIL 15 
Lunch 



Cream of Potato Soup 
Mustard Sardines 
Bread 



Saltines 
Scalloped Corn 
Butter 



Rhubarb Conserve or Apple Jelly 
Dinner 



Swiss Steak 
Mashed Potatoes Spinach 

Bread Butter 

Orange Custard 



Fried Onions 

Lettuce Salad 
Milk 
Vanilla Wafers 



APRIL 16 

Lunch 

Salmon Croquettes 

Radishes or Cucumber Pickles 
Cole Slaw Bread 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Dinner 

liroiled Halibut 
Mashed Potatoes 

Cottage Cheese Salad 
Butter Milk 

Lemon Pie 



Creamed Peas 
Butter 



Egg Sauce 
Buttered Beets 
Bread 

Coffee 









APRIL 17 












Lunch 






Italian Spaghetti 
Bread 




C 


orn Chowder 




Pear Salad 
Butter 


Meat Loaf 
Creamed Cabbage 
Bread 

Prune 


Fli 


Liff 


Dinner 

Butter 

147 


Ci 


Potato Puff 

Radishes 
Milk 
ream 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



APRIL 18 (Sunday) 
• Dinner 

Fricassee of Chicken Mashed Potatoes or Boiled Rice 

Creamed New Asparagus Spiced Peaches 

Watercress Salad Bread Butter 

Vanilla Ice Cream Chocolate Sauce 

Coffee Saltines 



Nut Bread 



Supper 

Shrimp Salad or Kidney Bean Salad 



Butter 



Fruit Cake 



Salted Peanuts 
Chocolate 



APRIL 19 
Lunch 

Macaroni and Cheese 
Cabbage Salad 

Bread 

Baked Apple — Cream 

Dinner 

Corn Beef Hash 

Raised Biscuits 
Orange Marmalade 
Rhubarb Pie 



Stewed Tomatoes 
Butter 



Spinach with Egg 
Butter 

Coffee 
Cheese 



Rice Croquettes 
Bread 



APRIL 20 
Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Noodles 

Milk 
Doughnuts 

Dinner 



Hamburger Layer 
String Bean Salad 
Bread 
Cottage Pudding 



Kippered Herring 
Butter 



Creamed Potatoes 

Creamed Peas 
Butter 
Foamv Sauce 



APRIL 21 
Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup 



Scalloped Potatoes 
Bread 



Saltines 
Watercress and Onion Salad 
Butter 
Rhubarb Sauce 

Dinner 

Stuffed Spare Ribs Creamed Potatoes 

Sauer Kraut Cottage Cheese and Olive Salad 

Milk Bread Butter 

Steamed Fruit Cake (leftover) Creamy Sauce 

148 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

APRIL 22 

Lunch 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast Butter 

Cabbage and Nut Salad Milk 

Sliced Bananas Cream 

Dinner 

Meat Pie Baked Stufifed Potatoes 

Lettuce and Onion Salad 

Raised Biscuits Apple Jelly 

Milk Cofifee Butter 

Creamed Rice with Dates Cream 

APRIL 23 
Lunch 

Codfish Cakes or Mustard Sardines 

Potato Salad Radishes Milk 

Butter Bread 

Stewed Prunes Cream 

Dinner 

Baked Shad French Fried Potatoess 

Stewed Tomatoes Buttered Beets 

Bread Butter Cofifee 

Caramel Custard Cream 

APRIL 24 
Lunch 

Cream of Potato Soup Saltines 

Banana and Nut Salad Scalloped Cabbage 

Cucumber Pickle 

Cornmeal Muffins Butter 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops Mashed Potatoes 

Spinach with Egg Bread 

Butter Watercress Salad 

Grapefruit 

APRIL 25 (Sunday) 
Dirmer 

Pot Roast Brown Potatoes Gravy 

Creamed New Asparagus 

Pear Salad Bread Butter 

Vanilla Ice Cream Saltines 

Chocolate Sauce 

Cofifee 

Supper 

Soft Boiled Eggs Nut Bread 

Olives White Cake Butter 

Chocolate Marshmallows 

149 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

APRIL 26 

Lunch 

Cream of Asparagus Soup Saltines 

Italian Spaghetti Cole Slaw or Lettuce Salad 

Bread Butter 

Rhubarb Sauce 

Dinner 

Stuffed Beef Heart Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Onions Bread Butter 

Chili Sauce Radishes 

Washington Cream Pie 

APRIL 27 

Lunch 

Cream of Corn Soup Saltines 

Scalloped Potatoes Radishes 

Gingerbread Coffee Milk 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Reheated in Gravy 

Baked Potatoes Creamed Carrots 

Green Onions Bread Butter 

Lemon Pie 



APRIL 28 
Lunch 



Vegetable Soup 
Banana and Nut Salad 

Milk Orange Marmalade 


Saltines 
White Muffins 
Butter 


Breaded Pork Chops 

Sauer Kraut 
Bread 

Pineapple Sponge 


Dinner 

Butter 

APRIL 29 
Lunch 


Mashed Potatoes 
Watercress Salad 

Coffee 
Cream 


Egg, Ol: 
Rhubarb Conserve 

Canned Pears 


ive and Potato 
Bread 


Salad 

Butter 
Cream 


Swiss Steak 
Creamed Peas 
Bread 

Prune Fluff 


Dinner 

Mashed Potatoes 

Green Onions 
Butter Coffee 
Custard Sauce 




150 





WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

APRIL 30 

Lunch 

Creamed Tuna Fish Toast 

Potato Cakes Lettuce and Orange Salad 

Milk Bread Butter 

Oatmeal Cookies 

Dinner 

Broiled Shad Creamed Potatoes 

Egg Sauce Cole Slaw Buttered Beets 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Cottage Pudding Foamy Sauce 



MAY 1 (Saturday) 

Lunch 

Boiled Rice Cheese Sauce 

Watercress and Cottage Cheese Salad Pineapple Sauce 

Butter Graham Muffins Milk 



Broiled Ham 
Scalloped Tomatoes 
Bread 



Dinner 

Milk Gravy- 
Butter 
Custard Pie 



Mashed Potatoes 

Green Onions 
Coffee 



May 2 (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Roast Lamb Brown Potatoes 

Creamed New Asparagus 
Lettuce Salad Bread 

Vanilla Ice Cream 
Chocolate Sauce 

Supper 



Gravy 
Mint Sauce 

Butter 
Cof¥ee 
Saltines 



Canned Salmon Lemon 

Sandwiches (Peanut Butter, Cream Cheese) 

Chocolate Cocoanut Cake 
Fresh Strawberries Cream 



Creamed Dried Beef 
Green Onions 
Cake (leftover) 



Lamb Croquettes 

Spinach with Egg 
Milk 

Raisin Pie 



MAY 3 
Lunch 

Bread 

Dinner 

Tomato Sauce 

Butter 
151 



Baked Potatoes 
Butter 
Rhubarb Sauce 



Buttered New Potatoes 
Raisin Bread 
Coffee 
Cheese 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET. OR 



MAY 4 

Lunch 

Cream of Potato Soup Saltines 

Tuna Fish Salad Corn Bread 

Butter Syrup 

Fresh Pineapple Sauce 

Dinner 

Breaded Veal Cutlets Creamed Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots Lettuce or Watercress Salad 

Bread Butter 

Caramel Custard Cream 

MAY 5 
Lunch 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 

Orange Marmalade Graham Muffin's 

Bread Milk Saltines 

Creamed Rice with Dates 

Dinner 

Liver and Bacon Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Peas Cabbage Salad 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Pineapple Sponge Cream 

MAY 6 

Lunch 

Cream of Pea Soup Croutons 

Scalloped Corn Bread Butter 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Spiced Cookies Milk 

Dinner 

Meat Pic Creamed Onions 

Boiled Cabbage with Dressing Butter 

Raised Biscuits Radishes 

Chocolate Souffle Creamv Sauce 







MAY 7 










Lunch 






Deviled Egg Salad 
Tea 


O 


Fish Chowder 

Bread 
range Marmalade 




Butter 
Milk 


Baked Haddock 
Cole Slaw 

Butter 




Dinner 

Lemon 

Creamed Peas 

Chocolate Pie 


Creamed Potatoes 

Bread 
Coffee 






152 







WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

MAY 8 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Baked Beans Catsup Bread 

Butter Green Onions 

Sliced Oranges and Shredded Cocoanut 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Lima Beans Watercress Salad 

Radishes Bread Butter Milk 

Spanish Cream Saltines 

MAY 9. (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Broiled Steak Baked Potatoes 

Creamed Asparagus Celery 

Bread Butter Lettuce Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream Fresh Strawberries 

Chocolate Cake 

Cofifee 

Supper 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 

Olives Radishes Nut-Bread 

Butter Milk or Chocolate 

Fresh Pineapple 

MAY 10 

Lunch 

Cream of Asparagus Soup Saltines 

Potato Puff Frankfurters Mustard 

Baking Powder Biscuits - Honey 

Butter Milk 

Dinner 

Broiled Ham Mashed Potatoes 

Milk Gravy Spinach Bread 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad Butter 

Cake (Left Over) 

Coffee 

MAY 11 

Lunch 

Mustard Sardines Scalloped Potatoes 

Watercress and Cottage Cheese Salad 

Milk Butter Bread 

Rhubarb Sauce Spice Cookies 

Dinner 

Liver and Bacon Creamed Potatoes 

Buttered Beets Dill Pickles Lettuce Salad Bread 

Butter Radishes 

Strawberry Shortcake or Banana Custard 

153 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



MAY 12 
Lunch 



Milk 



Cream of Potato Soup 
Italian Spaghetti 



Veal Birds 
Cream String Beans 
Bread 

Apple Pie 



Gingerbread 
Dinner 

Butter 



Saltines 

Butter 
Prune Sauce 



Mashed Potatoes 
Lettuce Salad 

Coffee 
Cheese 



MAY 13 

Lunch 
Cream of Tomato Soup 
Scalloped Corn 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Butter 

Dinner 

Beef Stew 
Spinach with Bacon 

Milk Butter 

Prune Fluff with Custard Sauce 



Croiitons 
Green Onions 
White Muffins 



Mashed Potatoes 

Raised Biscuits 
Cucumber Pickles 
Sugar Cookies 



MAY 14 

Lunch 

Creamed Tuna Fish or Finnan Haddie 



Baked Potatoes 
Milk 

Banana Fritters 



Bread 
Dinner 



Salmon Loaf 
Creamed Asparagus 

Bread Coffee 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding 



Lettuce and Onion Salad 
Butter 
Sauce 

Creamed Potatoes 

Dill Pickles 
Butter 
Creamy Sauce 



MAY 15 

Lunch 

Corn Chowder 

Hash Brown Potatoes 

Bread Butter 

Canned Peaches Cream 

Dinner 

Breaded Pork Chops Baked Stuffed Potatoes 

Boiled Cabbage with Dressing Green Onions 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Whipped Cream Cake or Tapioca Custard 

154 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

MAY 16 (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Fricassee of Chicken Boiled Rice or Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Peas Lettuce Salad 

Olives Bread Butter Coffee 

Strawberry Ice Cream Saltines 

Supper 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 

Nut Bread Butter Chocolate 

Marshmallows Salted Peanuts 



Vegetable Soup 
Cheese Souffle 
Bread 



Boiled Tongue 

Creamed String Beans 
Bread 



MAY 17 
Lunch 



Butter 
Fresh Pineapple 

Dinner 
Tomato Sauce 



Butter 



Rhubarb Pie 



Cheese 



Saltines 

Cole Slaw 
Milk 



Baked Potatoes 
Radishes 
Coffee 



MAY 18 
Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Noodles Saltines 

Kippered Herring on Toast or Creamed Eggs 

Butter Green Onions White Muffins 

Apple Sauce or Strawberries Cream 

Dinner 

Cold Tongue 

Spinach with Egg 
Bread Butter 

Apricot Fluff 



Creamed New Potatoes 

Watercress Salad 

Milk Coffee 

Custard Sauce 



MAY 19 

Lunch 

Creamed Dried Beef Baked Potatoes 

Cornmeal Muffins Mixed Pickles Syrup Butter 

Sliced Oranges with Shredded Cocoanut 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Gravy Brown Potatoes 

Horse Radish Creamed Onions 

Bread Butter Milk 

Caramel Custard Cream 

155 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



MAY 20 
Lunch 



Cream of Corn Soup 
Mexican Beans 

Bread 
Apple Sauce 

Pot Roast Reheated in Gravy 
Scalloped Cabbage 
Bread 

Spiced Pears 



Dinner 



Butter 



Saltines 
Lettuce Salad 
Butter 
Green Onions 



Buttered New Potatoes 
Lettuce Salad 

Milk 



Banana Cream Pie 



Creamed Codfish 
Cucumber Pickles 

French Toast 



MAY 21 

Lunch 

Bread 
Dinner 



Broiled Trout Lemon Sauce 

Creamed Asparagus 
Bread Butter 

Bread Pudding 



Potato Puff 
Syrup 



Butter 



Mashed Potatoes 
Cole Slaw 

Coffee 
Saltines 



MAY 22 

Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
Scalloped Potatoes 
Mustard Bread 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Dinner 
Meat Pie 
Buttered String Beans Lettuce Salad 

Bread Butter 

Strawberry Short Cake 



Saltines 
Frankfurters 

Butter 



Creamed Peas 

Radishes 
Milk 



MAY 23. (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Roast Pork Gravy 

Spinach Sauer Kraut 
Butter 

Pineapple Sponge 



Supper 



Cream of Potato Soup 
Stuffed Egg Salad 
Lemonade 



Brown Potatoes 

Bread 
Milk 



Coffee 



Saltines 
Nut Bread 
Chocolate Drop Cookies 



156 



WHAT SHALL WP: HAVE FOR DINNER? 



MAY 24 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup 
Scalloped Corn 

Bread Butter 

Creamed Rice with Dates 



Cold Roast Pork 
Creamed Onions 

Raised Biscuits 

Chocolate Souffl6 



Dinner 
Butter 



Saltines 
Lettuce and Radish Salad 
Milk 
Cream 



Mashed Potatoes 

Chili Sauce 
Cofifee 
Creamy Sauce 



Salmon Croquettes 
Bread 
Rhubarb Sauce 



MAY 25 
Lunch 

Butter 



Dinner 



Veal Stew with Dumplings 
Cole Slaw Bread 

Cherry Pudding 



Creamed Peas 
Tomato and Onion Salad 
Spice Cookies or Doughnuts 

Creamed Carrots 
Butter Milk 

Sauce 



Cream of Pea Soup 
Macaroni and Cheese 
Salted Peanuts 



MAY 26 
Lunch 



Butter 
Fresh Pineapple 



Croiitons 
Cucumber Pickles 
Bread 



Dinner 



Stuffed Round Steak 



Creamed New Potatoes 
Milk Coffee 

Fruit Jello 



Buttered Asparagus 
Bread Butter 

Whipped Cream 



MAY 27 

Lunch 
Cream of Tomato Soup 
Scrambled Eggs and Dried Beef 
Butter 

Cherry Sauce 

Dinner 

Pork Tenderloin Milk Gravy 

Creamed String Beans 
Bread 
Orange Custard 

157 



Croutons 

Bread 
Hash Brown Potatoes 
Saltines 



Buttered New Potatoes 
Lettuce Salad 
Butter 

Cream 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

MAY 28 

Lunch 

Tuna Fish Salad Corn-bread 

Strawberry Jam Milk Butter 

Banana Fritters Sauce 

Dinner 

Shad Roe with Bacon or Baked Haddock with Stuffing 

Mashed Potatoes Watercress and Cottage Cheese Salad 

Butter Bread Coffee Milk 

Strawberry Short Cake 

MAY 29 

Lunch 

Corn Chowder 

Baked Beans Catsup Steamed Brown Bread 

Butter Milk 

Pear Sauce 

Dinner 

Meat Pie Creamed Onions 

Asparagus Salad Bread Butter 

Coffee Dill Pickles 

Tapioca Custard 

MAY 30 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Fried Spring Chicken Mashed Potatoes 

Spinach Milk Gravy Radishes 

Bread Butter Coffee Olives 

Vanilla Ice Cream Caramel Sauce 

Angel Food Cake 

Supper 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 

Banana and Nut Salad Nut Bread 

Butter Lemonade 

Cocoanut Cookies 

MAY 31 
Lunch 

Italian Spaghetti Cole Slaw 

Kidney Bean Salad Butter 

Milk Baking Powder Biscuits Honey 

Dinner 

Meat Loaf or Swiss Steak Creamed New Potatoes 

Buttered Beets Bread Butter 

Watercress Salad Coffee 

Bread Pudding 

Strawberry Short Cake Whipped Cream 

158 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Scalloped Salmon 

Lettuce Salad 
Butter 



JUNE 1 (Tuesday) 
Lunch 



White Muffins 
Strawberry Jam 



Fried Rice 
Milk 



Dinner 



Liver and Bacon 



Creamed New Potatoes 



Boiled Cabbage with Dressing 

Green Onions 
Rhubarb Pie Coffee 



Bread 
Butter 
Cheese 



JUNE 2 

Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
Potato Salad 
Bread Butter 

Fresh Pineapple 



Breaded Veal Cutlets 
Beet Greens 

Butter 

Chocolate Custard 



Dinner 

Radishes 



Croutons 
Green Onions 

Ice Tea 



Mashed Potatoes 

Milk 
Cream 



Bread 



Cheese Soufifle 

Bread 
Cherry Sauce 

Stuffed Beef Heart 
Creamed String Beans 
Bread 



JUNE 3 
Lunch 



Dinner 



Butter 



Scalloped Tomatoes 
Butter 
Doughnuts 

Baked Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad 
Milk 



Cornstarch Pudding with Fresh Crushed Strawberries 



Cream 



JUNE 4 
Lunch 

Rice and Cheese Croquettes with Tomato Sauce 

Watercress Salad 

Bread Butter Milk Ice Tea 

Sliced Bananas Cream 

Dinner 

Fried Perch Creamed Potatoes 

Buttered Beets Green Onions Orange Salad 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Cottage Pudding Foamy Sauce 

159 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

JUNE 5 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Baked Beans Catsup Bread 

Butter Fresh Pineapple Salad 

Cheese Crackers 

Dinner 

Broiled Ham Mashed Potatoes 

Milk Gravy Creamed Peas 

Lettuce Salad Bread Butter 

Milk Lemon Pie 

JUNE 6 (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Roast Lamb Brown Potatoes Mint Sauce 

Creamed Asparagus Lettuce Salad Beet Greens 

Bread Butter Radishes 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Saltines Coffee 

Supper 

Soft Boiled Eggs Bread Butter 

Banana and Nut Salad Iced Tea 

Cocoanut Cake 

JUNE 7 
Lunch 

Cream of Asparagus Soup Saltines 
Scalloped Potatoes Cole Slaw- 
Graham Muffins Butter 
Currant Jelly 

Dinner 

Lamb Reheated in Gravy Baked Potatoes 

Creamed Onions Tomato and Onion Salad 

Bread Butter Milk 

Tapioca Cream 

JUNE 8 

Lunch 

Potato Puff Lettuce Salad Mexican Beans 

Bread Butter 

Banana Fritters Sauce 

Dinner 

Boiled Tongrue Mashed Potatoes 

Tomato Sauce Spinach Bread 

Butter Milk Radishes 

Pineapple Sherbet or Pineapple Whip 

160 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

JUNE 9 
Lunch 

Creamed Dried Beef Boiled Rice 

Cabbage and Nut Salad Iced Tea Butter 

Baking Powder Biscuits Honey 

Dinner 

Cold Tongue Creamed Potatoes 

Beet Greens Chili Sauce Bread 

Butter Lettuce and Onion Salad 

Strawberry Short Cake 



JUNE 10 
Lunch 

Cream of Potato Soup 
Macaroni and Cheese 

Bread Butter 

Rhubarb Sauce 

Dinner 



Saltines 
Salad ({j^reens left over) 

Iced Chocolate 
Nut Cookies 



Veal Stew with Dumplings 
Creamed Asparagus Tomato Salad 



Raised Biscuits 



Butter 
Banana Cream Pie 



Coffee 



Tuna Fish Salad 
Corn Bread 

Cup Cake 



Salmon Cutlets 
Creamed Peas 

Watercress Salad 



JUNE 11 
Lunch 

Foamy Sauce 
Dinner 

Radishes 
Butter 
Bread Pudding 



Cucumber Pickles 
Milk 



Butter 



Buttered Potatoes 



Coffee 



Bread 



JUNE 12 

Lunch 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Date and Nut Salad 
Butter French Toast 



Mustard Sardines 
Bread 

Syrup 



Creamed Potatoes 
Butter 



Dinner 

Hamburger Layer 

Creamed String Beans Bread 

Milk Iced Tea 

Prune Whip Custard Sauce 

161 



Olives 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

JUNE 13 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Chicken Mashed Potatoes 

Spinach 



Tomato Salad 
Butter Coffee 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Supper 



Bread 



Saltines 
Chocolate Sauce 



Shrimp Salad or Potato Salad 

Salted Peanuts Butter Nut Bread 

Lemonade Layer Cake 



JUNE 14 

Lunch 
Chicken Soup with Noodles 

Creamed Eggs on Toast 
Butter Iced Tea 

Dinner 

Swiss Steak 
Creamed Lima Beans 

Bread Butter 

Black Raspberries 



Saltines 
Radishes 

Cherry Sauce 



Mashed Potatoes 

spinach 
Milk 
Cream 



JUNE 15 

Lunch 

Cream of Potato Soup Saltines 

Rice with Cheese and Tomatoes Bread 

Waldorf Salad Butter Iced Tea 

Orange Marmalade 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops Creamed Potatoes 

Buttered String Beans Dill Pickles 

Bread Butter Iced Tea 

Strawberry Short Cake Whipped Cream 



Vegetable Soup 
Scalloped Potatoes 
White Muffins 



JUNE 16 
Lunch 

Butter 



Saltines 
Lettuce and Onion Salad 
Milk 



Rhubarb Sauce 

Dinner 
Stuffed Spare Ribs 
Sauer Kraut 

Bread Butter 

Baked Apple Stuffed with Raisins 

162 



Boiled Potatoes 
Buttered Beets 
Milk 
Cream 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



JUNE 17 

Lunch 

Mustard Sardines or Fried Soft Crabs 
Tomato Salad Bread 

Strawberries 



Cold Boiled Ham 
Beet Greens with Egg 
Butter 

Cherry Pie 



Dinner 
Bread 



Potato Cakes 
Milk Butter 

Cream 



Creamed Potatoes 

Watercress Salad 
Coffee 
Cheese 



Black Raspberry Jam 
Butter 

Cup Cake 

Baked Black Bass 
Creamed Peas 
Milk Butter 

Date Pudding 



JUNE 18 
Lunch 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 



Graham Muffins 
Milk 



Dinner 



Foamy Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes 
Spinach with Egg 
Bread Iced Tea 

Whipped Cream 



JUNE 19 
Lunch 

Cream of Spinach Soup 



Saltines 
Frankfurters 

Iced Tea 



Hash Brown Potatoes 
Bread Butter Catsup 

Fresh Pineapple 

Dinner 

Meat Pie Creamed Cabbage 

Lettuce Salad Cucumber Pickles 

Raised Biscuits Butter Coffee 

Cornstarch Pudding with Crushed Black Raspberries Cream 



Coffee 



JUNE 20 (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Roast Beef Brown Potatoes Gravy 

Horse Radish 

Creamed Asparagus 
Butter Olives 

Pineapple Sherbet 

Supper 

Peanut Butter, Dates and Cream Cheese, Lettuce Sandwiches 

Salted Peanuts 

Deviled Eggs Lemonade 

Chocolate Layer Cake 

1G3 



Bread 
Tomato Salad 

Saltines 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Scalloped Corn 
Banana and Nut Salad 



JUNE 21 
Lunch 

Butter 
White Muffins 
Rhubarb Conserve 



Cole Slaw 



Milk 



Dinner 

Roast Beef Reheated in Gravy- 
Mashed Potatoes Creamed Onions 
Coffee Radishes Bread Butter 
Prune FlufT Custard Sauce 



JUNE 22 
Lunch 



Creamed Cod Fish 



Watercress and Cottage Cheese Salad 
Bread Butter 

Sliced Oranges and Cocoanut 



Beefstew 
Beet Greens 

Milk 



Dinner 

Tomato and Onion SaJad 
Butter 
Strawberry Short Cake 



Baked Potatoes 
Iced Tea 



Potato Puff 
Creamed Carrots 
Bread 



JUNE 23 

Lunch 
Fried Soft Crabs — or — 

Hash Brown Potatoes 
Bread Butter Milk 

Creamed Rice with Dates 



Pork Tenderloin 
Gravy 

Bread 
Black Raspberries 



Dinner 

Buttered Beets 
Butter 



Cheese Souffle 
Radishes 

Iced Tea 
Cream 



Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Peas 
Green Onions 

Cream 



Cream of Pea Soup 
Italian Spaghetti 
Bread 



JUNE 24 
Lunch 

Butter 
Dinner 



Liver and Bacon 
Spinach Tomato Salad 

Butter Milk 

Cherry Pudding 

164 



Crovitons 
Waldorf Salad 
Iced Tea 



Creamed Potatoes 

Radishes 
Sauce 



Bread 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

JUNE 25 

Lunch 

Fish Chowder Scalloped Corn 

Beet and Cabbage Salad Dill Pickles 

Bread Butter 

Strawberries and Cream 

Dinner 

Salmon Loaf Buttered Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots Buttered String Beans 

Bread Butter Iced Tea 

Chocolate Custard Cream 



JUNE 26 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Tomato and Egg Salad Graham Muffins 

Cherry Sauce Butter 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Cabbage Lettuce Salad 

Bread Butter Radishes 

Banana Cream Pie 

JUNE 27. (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Chicken Pie Mashed Potatoes 

Spinach Creamed Asparagus _ Bread 

Spiced Currants 
Vanilla Ice Cream 



Salted Peanuts 



JUNE 28 

Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Rice Saltines 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad Bread 

Butter Strawberry Jam 

Dinner 

Swiss Steak Fried Onions Mashed Potatoes 

Beet Greens Sliced Tomatoes 

Bread Butter 

Cornstarch Pudding with Crushed Black Raspberries Cream 

165 



Butter 
Chocolate Sauce 


C 


offee 

Saltines 


Supper 






Welsh Rarebit on Toast 
Lettuce Salad 
Cocoanut Cake 




Lemonade 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

JUNE 29 
Lunch 

Potato Cakes Kippered Herring or Creamed Tuna Fish 

Banana and Nut Salad White Muffins 

Butter Rhubarb Sauce 

Dinner 

Baked Ham Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Onions Lettuce Salad 

Bread Butter Iced Tea 

Orange Custard Cream 

JUNE 30 
Lunch 

Rice and Cheese Croquettes with Tomato Sauce 
Cole Slaw- 
Bread Butter Milk 
Pineapple Fritters Sauce 

Dinner 

Cold Ham Creamed Potatoes 

Spinach Buttered Beets 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Currant Fie Cheese 

JULY 1 (Thursday) 

Lunch 

Creamed Ham on Toast Macaroni and Cheese 

\'egetable Salad O^tt-overs) Bread Butter 

Iced Tea Baked Apple Cream 

Dinner 

Stuffed Beef Heart Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots Cucumber and Onion Salad 

Bread Butter 

Chocolate Bread Pudding Hard Sauce 

JULY 2 
Limch 

Creamed Finnan Haddie or Cod Fish 

Baked Potatoes Tomato Salad 

Bread Butter Milk 

Black Raspberries Cream 

Dinner 

Broiled White Fish Lemon Sauce 

Baked Stuffed Potatoes Beet Greens 

Bread Butter Milk Iced Tea 

Jello with Custard Sauce 

166 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

JULY 3 

Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup Saltines 

Deviled Eggs Cole Slaw Potato Chips 

Baking Powder Biscuits Honey 

Dinner 

Breaded Pork Chops Mashed Potatoes 

Swiss Chard Sliced Tomatoes 

Buttered String Beans Bread Butter 

Cherry Pie Cheese Coffee 

JULY 4 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Fried Spring Chicken Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Asparagus Olives Radishes 

Milk Gravy Cucumber Salad 

Bread Butter Coflfee or Iced Tea 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Devil's Food Cake 

Supper 

Creamed Sweet Breads on Toast 

Pineapple Salad Cheese Crackers 

Lemonade Cake 

JULY 5 

Lunch 

Cream of Asparagus Soup Saltines 

Italian Spaghetti Cabbage and Nut Salad 

White Muffins Butter 

Dinner 

Beef Birds Creamed Potatoes 

Spinach Buttered Beets 

Bread Butter Iced Tea 

Cantaloupe 

JULY 6 

Lunch 
Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Butter Lettuce and Cottage Cheese Salad Bread 

Strawberries Cream 

Dinner 

Hamburger Layer Baked Potatoes 

Turnip Greens or Swiss Chard Creamed Onions 

Brerfd Butter Cofifee 

Date Pudding Whipped Cream 

167 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

JULY 7 
Lunch 



Lima Beans in Casserole 
Cole Slaw Bread 

Banana Fritters 



Sauce 



Butter 



Dinner 

Breaded Veal Cutlets Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Peas Lettuce Salad 

Bread Butter Iced Tea 

Watermelon 



JULY 8 

Lunch 

Mustard Sardines 

Stuffed Green Peppers 
Honey 

Dinner 

Rice and Meat in Casserole 
Spinach with Bacon 

Bread Butter 



Potato Cakes 
Milk 
Baking Powder Biscuits 



Dill Pickles 
Creamed String Beans 
Coffee 



Washington Cream Pie 

JULY 9 
Lunch 

Corn Chowder 

Hash Brown Potatoes Codfish Cakes or Frankfurters 

Catsup Bread Butter 

Blackberries Cream 

Dinner 

Baked Black Bass or Fried Perch 

Creamed Potatoes Swiss Chard 

Tomato Salad Bread Butter 

Cornstarch Pudding with Crushed Fresh Strawberries and Cream 

Iced Tea 



JULY 10 

Lunch 

Potato Salad Cole Slaw 

Bread Butter Milk 

Blue Plums or Apple Sauce Cream 

Dinner 

Swiss Steak Mashed Potatoes 

Beet Greens Tomato and Cucumber Salad 

Bread Butter Iced Tea 

Saltines Banana Custard Cream 

168 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



JULY 11. (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Brown Potatoes 



Roast Lamb 

Summer Squash 
Lettuce Salad Mint Sauce 

Pineapple Sherbet 

Supper 



Butter 



Fruit Salad 



Iced Chocolate 
Sponge Cake 



Gravy 
Creamed Onions 
Coffee or Iced Tea 
Saltines 

Nut-bread 
Salted Peanuts 



JULY 12 
Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
Stuffed Egg Salad 

Bread 

Cherry Sauce 

Dinner 

Lamb Croquettes 

Creamed Carrots 
Bread Butter 

Huckleberry Roll 



Butter 



Croiitons 
Potato Cakes 



Mashed Potatoes 
Tomato Salad 
Coffee Milk 

Sauce 



JULY 13 

Lunch 

Fish and Macaroni 
Bread Butter 

Black Raspberries 

Dinner 

Broiled Ham 
Milk Gravy Spinach 

Bread 

Brown Betty 



Cole Slaw 

Iced Tea 
Cream 



Mashed Potatoes 
Buttered String Beans 
Butter 
Creamy Sauce 



JULY 14 

Lunch 

Vegetable Chowder 
Banana and Nut Salad 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

Dinner 

Boiled Tongue Tomato Sauce 

Creamed Cabbage Green Onions 

Bread Butter 

Caramel Custard 

169 



Saltines 
Butter Milk 

Honey 



Baked Potatoes 
Radishes 
Iced Tea 
Cream 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



JULY 15 
Lunch 



Cream of Potato Soup 
Tomato and Egg Salad 

Apple Fritters 



Saltines 



Bread 



Sauce 



Butter 





Dinner 




Cold Tongue 

Turnip Greens 
Bread 

Iced Tea 


Butter 

JULY 16 
Lunch 


Creamed Potatoes 
Buttered Beets 

Sliced Cucumbers 
Lemon Pie 


Creamed Tuna Fish 
Cabbage and Nut Salad 


Boiled Rice 
Bread Butter 
Watermelon 
Iced Tea 




Dinner 




Fried Perch 

Spinach with Egg 

Bread 

Cherry Pu 


Butter 

dding 

JULY 17 
Lunch 


Mashed Potatoes 
Creamed String Beans 
Iced Tea 

Sauce 


Vegetable Soup 
Cottage Cheese and Nut S 
Butter 

Cup Cake 


alad 

Milk 

Dinner 


Saltines 

Fried Tomatoes 
Bread 
Foamy Sauce 


Liver and Bacon 
Beet Greens 

Bread 
Sliced Peaches 


Cream 


French Fried Potatoes 

Buttered Turnips 
Butter 
Oatmeal Cookies 



Beef Birds 
Creamed Lima Beans 
Bread 
Vanilla Ice Cream 



JULY 18. (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Swiss Chard 
Butter 
Saltines 



Mashed Potatoes 

Tomato Salad 
. Coffee 
Chocolate Sauce 



Supper 

Shrimp Salad or Canned Salmon 

Bread Butter Olives 

White Layer Cake Iced Chocolate 

170 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



JULY 19 
Lunch 

Rice and Cheese Croquettes with Tomato Sauce 

Cole Slaw Banana and Nut Salad 

White Muffins Butter 

Orange Marmalade 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Veal Potato Puff 

Succotash Turnip Greens Bread 

Butter Sliced Cucumbers 

Peach Short Cake 



JULY 20 
Lunch 



Waldorf Salad 



Bread 



Black Raspberries 



Butter 



Dinner 



Casserole Rice and Veal 
Spinach 

Butt#r 
Apple Pie 



Scalloped Potatoes 
Cream 

Tomato Sauce 



Creamed Onions 
Cheese 



Milk 



Bread 



Radishes 



Coffee 



Fried Tomatoes 



Bread 



Pork Tenderloin 
Corn on Cob 

Butter 



JULY 21 
Lunch 

Fish Chowder 

Butter 
Watermelon 

Dinner 



Scalloped Cabbage 

Strawberry Jam 



Glazed Sweet Potatoes 
Milk Gravy Beet Greens 

Iced Tea Bread 

Grapefruit 



JULY 22 

Lunch 

Italian Spaghetti Cabbage and Nut Salad 

Graham Muffins Butter Iced Tea 

Sliced Peaches Cream 

Dinner 

Stuffed Round Steak Buttered Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots Cucumber Salad 

Bread Butter Iced Tea 

Chocolate Souffle Creamy Sauce 

171 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Butter 



JULY 23 
Lunch 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 

Bread Cranberry Jelly 

Baked Apple Stuffed with Raisins 



Spiced Cookies 

Dinner 
Salmon Cutlets 
Spinach Corn on Cob 

Butter Coffee 

Huckleberry Pie 



Cream 



Mashed Potatoes 

Bread 
Milk 
Cheese 



Vegetable Soup 
Graham Muffins 



Meat Pie 
Creamed Turnips 
Biead 



JULY 24 

Lunch 

Waldorf Salad 

Butter 

Watermelon 



Dinner 



Saltines 



Milk 



Baked Sweet Potatoes 



Lettuce Salad 
Butter 
Spanish Cream 



Succotash 
Iced Tea 



Fried Chicken 
Beet Greens 
Bread 



JULY 25. (Sunday) 
Dinner 



Milk Gravy 

Butter 

Cantaloupe and Ice Cream 

Supper 
Welsh Rarebit 
Grapefruit and Celery Salad 

Devil's Food Cake 



Mashed Potatoes 

Sliced Tomatoes 
Coffee 



Toast 
Iced Chocolate 



JULY 26 

Lunch 
Cream of Potato Soup 
Stuffed Egg Plant 
Bread 

Cantaloupe 

Dinner 

Hamburger Layer 
Corn on Cob Swiss Chard 

Butter Dill Pickles 

Peach Short Cake 

172 



Saltines 

Cole Slaw 
Butter 



Creamed Potatoes 

Bread 
Iced Tea 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



JULY 27 

Lunch 

Cream of Corn Soup 
Stuffed Green Peppers 

Bread Butter 

Blue Plums or Red Raspberries 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops 

Creamed Onions 
Bread Butter 

Banana Cream Pie 



Saltines 
Potato Cakes 
Iced Tea 
Cream 



Mashed Potatoes 
Sliced Tomatoes 

Iced Tea 



JULY 28 

Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Macaroni and Cheese 
Bread Butter 

Sliced Peaches 

Dinner 

Veal Stew with Dumplings 
Spinach with Egg Corn on Cob 

Bread Butter 

Huckleberry Roll 



Croiitons 



Milk 



Cream 



Fried Egg Plant 
Iced Tea 
Sauce 



JULY 29 

Lunch 

Potato Salad 
Cole Slaw Milk 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

Dinner 

Beef Birds 

Beet Greens 
Bread Butter 

Cantaloupe 

JULY 30 

Butter 



Deviled Eggs 
Honey 



Butter 



Creamed Potatoes 
Squash 
Iced Tea Olives 



Codfish Calces 
Catsup 

Bread 

Apple Fritters 

Dinner 

Broiled Halibut 
Mashed Potatoes 

Bread Tomato Salad 

Watermelon 

173 



Hashed Brown Potatoes 
Cucumber and Onion Salad 
Iced Tea 
Sauce 



Creamed String Beans 

Butter 
Iced Tea 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Creamed Dried Beef 
Lettuce Salad 

Iced Tea 



Broiled Ham 
Spinach 

Bread 



JULY 31 
Lunch 

Bread 
Brown Betty 

Dinner 

Milk Gravy 

Butter 

Peach Custard 



Baked Potatoes 
Foamy Sauce 



Butter 



Mashed Potatoes 

Corn on Cob 
Iced Tea 



AUGUST 1. (Sunday) 
Dinner 



Roast Veal 
Creamed Cauliflower 

Sliced Tomatoes 

Vanilla Ice Cream 



Tuna Fish Salad 
Nut-bread 
Lemonade 



Gravy 

Coffee 

Saltines 

Supper 



AUGUST 2 
Lunch 



Bread 



Potato Cakes 



Mashed Potatoes 

Olives 
Butter 

Caramel Sauce 



Potato Chips 
Butter 
Salted Peanuts 



Mustard Sardines 



Sliced Cucumbers and Onions 

Butter 
Cheese Crackers 



Bread 

Pineapple Salad 

Dinner 

Casserole Rice and Veal 

Buttered Turnips 
Beet Greens or Swiss Chard 



Bread 



Butter 
Chocolate Pie 



Toinato Sauce 

Corn on Cob 
Iced Tea 



AUGUST 3 

Lunch 

Fish Chowder 



Cornmeal Muffins 
Syrup 



Banana and Nut Salad 
Butter 

Sliced Peaches and Cream 

Dinner 

Swiss Steak Mashed Potatoes 

Fried Onions Creamed Carrots and Peas 

Bread Butter Milk Iced Tea 

Watermelon 

174 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

AUGUST 4 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltine^ 

Rice and Cheese Croquettes Tomato Sauce 

Bread Butter Milk 

Fresh Pears or Plums 

Dinner 

Breaded Pork Chops Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Spinach Fried Egg Plant 

Butter Raised Biscuits 

Iced Tea Sliced Cucumbers 

Cantaloupe 

AUGUST 5 

Lunch 

Tomato and Egg Salad Peanut Butter Sandwiches 

Lettuce Sandwiches Cheese Sandwiches 

Creamed Lima Beans 

Sliced Peaches Cream Saltines 

Dinner 

Stuffed Beef Heart Buttered Potatoes 

Turnip Greens or Swiss Chard Corn on Cob 

Bread Butter Spiced Currants Milk 

Watermelon 

AUGUST 6 

Lunch 

Creamed Peas on Toast Cole Slaw 

Fried Sweet Potatoes Bread Butter 

Pears Oatmeal Cookies 

Dinner 

Salmon Loaf Creamed Potatoes 

Creamed Cauliflower Sliced Tomatoes 

Buttered String Beans Bread Butter 

Iced Tea Cantaloupe 

AUGUST 7 

Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup Croutons 

Scalloped Corn Waldorf Salad 

Bread Butter Rhubarb Conserve 

Dinner 

Liver and Bacon Mashed Potatoes 

Spinach Buttered Beets Bread 

Butter Lettuce Salad Iceed Tea 

Caramel Custard Cream 

175 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



AUGUST 8. (Sunday) 
Dinner 



Roast Chicken 
Gravy 

Bread 
Chocolate Ice Cream 



Deviled Egg Salad 
Lemonade 



Stuffing Mashed Potatoes 

Corn on Cob Lettuce Salad 

Butter Coffee 

Angel Food Cake or Layer Cake 



Supper 

Butter 
Cake 



Nut-bread 
Sliced Tomatoes 



Baked Beans 
Bread 



AUGUST 9 
Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Noodles 

Cabbage and Nut Salad 
Butter Milk 

Blue Plums 



Boiled Tongue 

Tomato Sauce 
Beet Greens 

Peach Short Cake 



Dinner 

Bread 



Baked Potatoes 
Creamed Turnips 

Iced Tea 



Butter 



AUGUST 10 

Lunch 

Stuffed Egg Plant 
White Muffins Butter 

Baked Apple 

Dinner 
Cold Tongue 

Creamed Cauliflower 



Bread 



Butter 
Watermelon 



Cucumber Salad 

Iced Tea 
Cream 



Creamed Potatoes 
Tomato Salad 

Lemonade 



Stuft'ed Green Peppers 
Waldorf Salad 



AUGUST 11 
Lunch 



Bread 



Iced Tea 
Dinner 



Casserole Rice and Meat 

Creamed Carrots and Peas 
Bread Butter 

Lemon Pie 

176 



Scalloped Potatoes 
Butter 



Tomato Sauce 
Turnip Greens 

Iced Tea 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



AUGUST 12 
Lunch 



Boiled Rice 
Cottage Cheese Salad 



Sliced Oranges and Cocoanut 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops 



Cheese Sauce 
Bread Butter 



Corn on Cob 

Bread Butter 

Lemon Sherbet or Tapioca Cream 



Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed String Beans 

Iced Tea 
Sugar Cookies 



Cream of Pea Soup 
Cheese Souffle 
Bread 



AUGUST 13 
Lunch 

Butter 
Dinner 

Egg Sauce 



Baked Trout 

Summer Squash 

Bread Butter 

Cantaloupe or Huckleberry Roll 



Croiitons 
Grapefruit and Celery Salad 
Iced Tea 



Mashed Potatoes 

Spinach 
Milk 
Vanilla Sauce 



Potato Pufif 



Bread 



Catsup 



Sliced Peaches 



Broiled Ham 
Milk Gravy 

Bread 



AUGUST 14 
Lunch 

Kippered Herring or Frankfurters 
Cole Slaw 
Butter Iced Tea 

Cream 

Dinner 

Buttered Potatoes 
Swiss Chard Creamed String Beans 

Butter Iced Tea 



Jello with Custard Sauce 



AUGUST 15. (Sunday) 
Dinner 



Veal Cutlets in Casserole 
Creamed Cauliflower 

Bread Butter 

Peach Sherbet 



Mashed Potatoes 

Tomato Salad 
Celery Coffee 

Saltines 



Supper 



Shrimp Salad or Salmon and Orange Salad 
Potato Chips Olives Iced Chocolate 

X Cocoanut Cake 

177 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



AUGUST 16 

Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup Croutons 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad Bread Butter 

Cantaloupe Milk 

Dinner 

Creamed Veal in Pastry Cups 



Mashed Potatoes 
Bread 



Lettuce Salad 
Butter 
Banana Cream Pie 



Beet Greens 
Iced Tea 



AUGUST 17 

Lunch 
Macaroni and Cheese 
Cole Slaw Bread 

Watermelon 



Swiss Steak 
Fried Onions 
Bread 



Dinner 



Butter 
Peach Shortcake 



Fried Tomatoes 
Butter Milk 



Creamed Potatoes 

Buttered String Beans 
Iced Tea 



Italian Spaghetti 
Waldorf Salad 



Meat Pie 
Turnip Greens 

Bread 
Date Pudding 



AUGUST 18 
Lunch 

Bread 



Dinner 



Butter 



Creamed Lima Beans 

Butter Milk 



Glazed Sweet Potatoes 
Cucumber and Onion Salad 
Iced Tea 
Whipped Cream 



Vegetable Soup 
Graham Muffins 



Breaded Pork Chops 
Saner Kraut 

Iced Tea 



AUGUST 19 
Lunch 

Scalloped Cabbage 

Lettuce Salad 

Cantaloupe or Pears 

Dinner 



Bread 



Saltines 



Pineapple Sherbet or Pineapple Whip 

178 



Butter 



Mashed Potatoes 
Sliced Tomatoes 
Butter 

Cream 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



AUGUST 20 
Lunch 

Creamed Tuna Fish 
Waldorf Salad Bread Butter 

Blue Plums 

Dinner 

Salmon Croquettes 
Creamed Celery 

Bread Butter 



Boiled Rice 
Cucumber Pickles 



Creamed Peas 

Spinach 
Iced Tea 



Chocolate Souffle 



Foamy Sauce 



AUGUST 21 

Lunch 
Corn Chowder 
Bread Butter 

Baked Apple Stuffed with Raisins 

Dinner 

Stuffed Round Steak 

Creamed Carrots Celery 

Butter Iced Tea 

Lemon Pie 



Tomato Salad 

Iced Tea 
Cream 



Mashed Potatoes 
Bread 
Milk 



AUGUST 22. (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Fricassee of Chicken 
Swiss Chard Creamed Turnips 

Bread Cucumber Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream 



Mashed Potatoes 
Olives 
Butter 
Sliced Peaches 



Coffee 



Saltines 



Supper 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 
Grapefruit and Celery Salad 

Butter Salted Peanuts 

Lemonade Oatmeal Cookies 



Bread 



AUGUST 23 
Lunch 

Potatoes and Cheese Croquettes with Tomato Sauce 
Cabbage and Nut Salad 
Bread Butter 

Cantaloupe 

Dinner 

Chicken Soup with Rice 
Glazed Sweet Potatoes Cucumber Salad 
Creamed Onions Bread 

Iced Tea Milk 

Cherry Pudding 

179 



Milk 



Saltines 
Stuffed Egg Plant 
Butter 

Sauce 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET. OR 



AUGUST 24 
Lunch 
Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 

Sauce 
Dinner 



Butter 

Banana Fritters 



Pork Tenderloin 
Milk Gravy 
Bread 



Bread 
Sliced Cucumbers and Tomatoes 
Lemonade 



Turnip Greens 
Butter 
Peach Short Cake 



Mashed Potatoes 

Cole Slaw- 
Iced Tea 



Cheese Souffle 
Dill Pickles 

Honev 



AUGUST 25 
Lunch 

Lettuce Salad 

Dinner 



Potato Cakes 
Baking Powder Biscuits 
Milk 



Hamburger Layer Creamed Potatoes 

Spinach Buttered Beets Bread 

Butter Iced Tea 

Huckleberry Roll Vanilla Sauce 



AUGUST 26 
Lunch 



Stuffed Egg Plant 
Bread 



Cucumber and Onion Salad 

Watermelon 
Dinner 



Creamed Lima Beans 
Butter 



Lamb Chops 

Swiss Chard 
Bread Butter 

Orange Custard 



Baked Potatoes 
Buttered Turnips 
Milk Iced Tea 

Cookies 



AUGUST 27 
Lunch 



Tuna Fish Salad 
Butter Syrup 

Caramel Custard 



Corn Bread 
Milk Iced Tea 

Saltines 



Dinner 

Fried Rock Fish Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Spinach with Egg Lettuce Salad Stewed Tomatoes 

Bread Butter Spiced Currants 

Peaches and Blue Plums 

180 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Baked Beans 



Bread 



Broiled Ham 
Milk Gravy 
Sliced Tomatoes 



AUGUST 28 

Lunch 

Vegetable Chowder 

Butter 
Cantaloupe or Pears 

Dinner 



Cole Slaw 



Milk 



Bread 



Peach Short Cake 



Mashed Potatoes 
Swiss Chard 

Iced Tea 



Butter 



AUGUST 29. (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Veal Birds Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Cauliflower Corn on Cob 

Spiced Peaches Bread Butter 

Chocolate Ice Cream Oatmeal Cookies 



Potato Salad 

Lemonade 



Supper 

Nut-Bread 

Watermelon 



Butter 



Salted Peanuts 



AUGUST 30 

Lunch 

Potato Puflf Mustard Sardines or Frankfurters 

Tomato and Cucumber Salad Bread 

Butter Iced Chocolate 

Grapes 

Dinner 



Pot 


Roast 




Bi 


rown Potatoes 








Gravy 




Spinach 


B 


uttered 


Beets 


Bread 




Butter 








Iced Te 


a 


Milk 










Prune 


Fluff 




Saltines 


Cust 


ard 


Sauce 





AUGUST 31 
Lunch 

Cream of Spinach Soup 
Italian Spaghetti 
Bread Butter 

Baked Apple 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Reheated in Gravy 
Creamed Onions 

Bread Butter Milk 

Raisin Pie Coffee 

181 



Saltines 
Lettuce Salad 

Iced Tea 
Cream 



Mashed Potatoes 

Cucumber Pickles 
Iced Tea 
Cheese 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



SEPTEMBER 1 (Wednesday) 
Lunch 

Baked Sweet Potatoes Creamed Tuna Fish 

Fried Tomatoes Bread Butter Milk 

Grapes 

Dinner 

Liver and Bacon 
Swiss Chard 

Chow-Chow Bread 

Peach Sherbet or 

Iced Tea 



Creamed Potatoes 

Buttered Turnip? 
Butter 
Peach Short Cake 



Stuffed Egg Plant 
Milk Butter 



Meat Loaf 
Beet Greens 
Bread 

Brown Betty 



SEPTEMBER 2 
Lunch 

Scalloped Corn 
Baking Powder Biscuits Honey 

Cantaloupe 

Dinner 

Mashed Potatoes 
Gravy Cabbage Salad 

Butter Iced Tea 

Foamy Sauce 



SEPTEMBER 3 
Lunch 

Fish Chowder 
Tomato and Egg Salad 
Butter 

Dinner 

Baked Stuffed Haddock 
Boiled Sweet Potatoes 

Milk Bread Butter 

Banana Cream Pie 



Cornmeal Muffins 
Rhubarb Conserve 

Egg Sauce 
Creamed Onions 
Coffee 



Creamed Dried Beef 



SEPTEMBER 4 
Lunch 



Cole Slaw 

Sliced Peaches 

Pork Tenderloin 
Turnip Greens 

Milk Gravy 

Watermelon 



Bread 

Dinner 

Lettuce Salad 
Bread 

182 



Fried Sweet Potatoes 

or 

Boiled Rice 

Butter 
Cream 

Mashed Potatoes 

Fried Egg Plant 
Butter 
Iced Tea 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



SEPTEMBER 5. (Sunday) 



Dinner 

Roast Lamb Mashed Potatoes 

Mint Sauce Swiss Chard 

Bread Butter 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Supper 
Shrimp or Salmon Salad 

Nut-bread Chocolate 

Plums and Apples 



Gravy- 
Sliced Tomatoes 
Coffee 
Saltines 



Potato Chips 
Marshmallows 



SEPTEMBER 6 

Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
Scalloped Cabbage 
Bread Butter 

Brown Betty- 
Dinner 
Lamb Reheated in Gravy 
Creamed Celery Turnip Greens 

Apple Pie Cheese 



Crotitons 
Spiced Peaches 

Hard Sauce 



Milk 



Baked Sw^eet Potatoes 

Bread Butter 

Coffee 



SEPTEMBER 7 

Lunch 

Fish and Macaroni Cabbage* Salad 

White Muffins Butter Milk 

Baked Apple Stuffed with Raisins Cream 

Dinner 

Swiss Steak Mashed Potatoes 

Fried Onions Cucumber Salad Spinach 

Bread Butter Iced Tea 

Peach Short Cake Whipped Cream 



Vegetable Soup 
Fried Egg Plant 
Bread 



SEPTEMBER 8 
Lunch 



Butter 
Watermelon 



Dinner 



Meat Pie 

Turnip Greens 
Bread Butter 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad 

183 



Saltines 
Creamed Lima Beans 
Milk 



Boiled Sweet Potatoes 
Tomato Salad 

Coffee 
Cheese Crackers 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



SEPTEMBER 9 
Lunch 



Cream of Celery Soup 
Baked Beans 
Cole Slaw 



Saltines 
Steamed Brown Bread 



Butter 
Grapes 

Dinner 

Boiled Tongue 
Tomato Sauce Creamed Onions 

Raised Biscuits Butter 

Banana Custard 



Milk 



Baked Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad 
Coffee 



SEPTEMBER 10 
Lunch 



Creamed Codfish 
Cabbage and Celery Salad 
Cantaloupe 



Salmon Cutlets 
Mashed Potatoes 
Bread 



Dinner 



Butter 



Huckleberry Roll 



Boiled Rice 
Bread Butter 

Iced Tea 



Tomato Sauce 

Swiss Chard 
Milk 
Sauce 



SEPTEMBER 11 



Potato Pufif 

Banana and Nut Salad 
Cinnamon Rolls 



Lunch 

Pickled Pigs Feet or Mustard Sardines 

Celery 
Milk 



Dinner 

Breaded Pork Chops 

Boiled Cabbage with Dressing 
Bread Butter 

Sliced Peaches 



Mashed Potatoes 
Buttered Beets 

Cofifee 
Cream 



SEPTEMBER 12. (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Chicken 



Creamed Cauliflower 

Swiss Chard Bread 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Saltines 



Mashed Potatoes 

Sliced Tomatoes 
■ Butter Cofifee 

Chocolate Sauce 



Supper 

Soft Boiled Eggs Bread 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad 
Devil's Food Cake Lemonade 

184 



Butter 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



SEPTEMBER 13 

Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Noodles 
Creamed Finnan Haddie 

Bread Butter 

Baked Apple 

Dinner 

Stuffed Round Steak 

Kale or Turnip Greens 
Bread Butter 

Cantaloupe 



Boiled Sweet Potatoes 
Milk 
Cream 

Mashed Potatoes 
Creamed Carrots 

Cucumber Pickles 



SEPTEMBER 14 

Lunch 

Scrambled Eggs and Dried Beef 



Cole Slaw 

Honey 



Fried Sweet Potatoes 
Baking Powder Biscuits 
Butter Tea 



Creamed Lima Beans 

Bread Butter 

- Chocolate Souffle 



Dinner 

Veal Stew with Dumplings 



Sliced Tomatoes 
Milk Coffee 

Foamy Sauce 



SEPTEMBER 15 

Lunch 

Rice and Cheese Croquettes with Tomato Sauce 

Fried Egg Plant Bread Butter 

Banana Fritters Sauce 

Dinner 

Baked Ham 

Spinach 
Bread Butter 

Jello with Custard Sauce 



Glazed Sweet Potatoes 
Buttered Beets 

Spiced Currants 

Saltines 



SEPTEMBER 16 

Lunch 

Mexican Beans Waldorf Salad 

White Muffins Butter Milk 

Black Raspberry Jam 

Dinner 

Cold Ham Mashed Potatoes 

Kale or Turnip Greens Buttered Parsnips Chili Sauce 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Bread Pudding Oatmeal Cookies 

185 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Scalloped Potatoes 
Sliced Peaches 



Broiled Trout 
Creamed Onions 
Bread 
Caramel Custard 



SEPTEMBER 17 

Lunch 

Kippered Herring or Tuna Fish Salad 



Cream 
Dinner 

Butter 



Bread Butter 

Oatmeal Cookies 



Creamed Potatoes 
Tomato and Onion Salad 

Milk 
Whipped Cream 



Potato Puff 



Bread 



Beef Birds 

Milk Gravy 
Bread 



SEPTEMBER 18 
Lunch 

Vegetable Soup 

Creamed Ham 
Butter Milk Tea 

Grapes or Pears 

Dinner 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 
Creamed Cabbage Chili Sauce 

Butter Coffee 



Creamed Rice with Dates 



Cream 



SEPTEMBER 19. (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Veal Cutlets in Casserole Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Cauliflower Celery Spinach 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Date Pudding Foamy Sauce 

Supper 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 

Salted Peanuts Nut-bread Butter 

Chocolate Grapefruit 



SEPTEMBER 20 
Lunch 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Fried Tomatoes 
Bread Butter 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Dinner 

Casserole Rice and Veal 

Spinach with Egg 
Summer Squash 
Bread Butter Milk 

Chocolate Pie 

186 



Saltines 



Milk 



Tomato Sauce 

Cole Slaw 

CoflFee 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

SEPTEMBER 21 

Lunch 

Creamed Dried Beef Baked Potatoes 

Sliced Cucumbers and Onions Baking Powder Biscuits 

Honey Butter 

Dinner 

Pork Chops Boiled Sweet Potatoes 

Kale Buttered Beets Bread Butter 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad 

Milk Cheese Crackers Coffee 

SEPTEMBER 22 

Lunch 

Fish Chowder 

Stuffed Green Peppers Bread 

Butter Cabbage and Nut Salad 

Grapes 

Dinner 

Stuffed Beef Heart Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Celery Spinach 

Bread Butter Milk 

Brown Betty Hard Sauce 

SEPTEMBER 23 

Lunch 

Cheese Souffle Fried Sweet Potatoes 

Bread Butter 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad 

Doughnuts Coffee Milk 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops Creamed Potatoes 

Kale or Swiss Chard Celery Currant Jelly 

Bread Butter 

Spanish Cream Cookies 

SEPTEMBER 24 

Lunch 

Salmon Croquettes Creamed Peas 

Waldorf Salad Bread Butter 

Milk 

Dinner 

Baked Trout Egg Sauce Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Lima Beans Cole Slaw 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Apple Dumpling Foamy Sauce 

187 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

SEPTEMBER 25 

Lunch 
Cream of Pea Soup Croutons 

Baked Beans Catsup Bread Butter 

French Toast Syrup 

Dinner 

Meat Pie Creamed Brussel Sprouts 

Buttered Beets Bread Butter 

Milk Lemon Pie Coffee 



SEPTEMBER 26. (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Broiled Steak Mashed Potatoes 

Celery Kale Creamed Cauliflower 

Bread Butter Olives Coffee 

Chocolate Ice Cream Saltines 

Supper 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad Nut-bread 

Chocolate Butter Marshmallows 



SEPTEMBER 27 
Lunch 

Vegetable Chowder Saltines 

Scalloped Potatoes Mustard Sardines 

Bread Butter Milk Apple Jelly 

Dinner 

Boiled Tongue Tomato Sauce Mashed Potatoes 

Turnip Greens Fried Parsnips Bread 

Butter Milk Coffee 

Tapioca Cream -i, Sugar Cookies 



SEPTEMBER 28 

Lunch 

Cream of Potato Soup Saltines 

Macaroni and Dried Beef Bread Butter 

Apple Sauce Cream 

Dinner 

Cold Tongue Creamed Potatoes 

Brussel Sprouts with Bacon Chili Sauce 

Raised Biscuits Butter Milk Coffee 

Caramel Pie or Banana Cream Pie 

188 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



SEPTEMBER 29 

Lunch 

Hash Brown Potatoes Rhubarb Conserve Cole Slaw 

White Muffins Butter Milk 

Sliced Oranges and Cocoanut Sugar Cookies 



Dinner 



Beef Birds 
Creamed Carrots 
Prune Whip 


Kale 

Saltines 




SEPTEMBER 30 




Lunch 


Italian Spaghetti 
Baking Powder Biscuits 


Butter 



Baked Sweet Potatoes 
Bread Butter 

Custard Sauce 



Waldorf Salad 



Dinner 



Lamb Stew with Dumplings 
Cabbage and Celery Salad 
Bread Butter 

Apple Pie 



Honey 



Mashed Potatoes 
Creamed Peas 
Milk Coffee 

Cheese 



OCTOBER 1. 


(Friday) 




Lunch 




Lima Beans in Casserole 
Bread 

Tea 


Butter 
Grapes 

Dinner 


Stuffed Green Peppers 
Cabbage and Apple Salad 

Milk 


Salmon Loaf 
Swiss Chard 
Bread 

Cherry Pudding 


Butter 


Creamed Potatoes 

Creamed Turnips 
Dill Pickles 
Sauce 



OCTOBER 2 
Lunch 

Creamed Dried Beef Boiled Rice or Sweet Potatoes 

Cabbage and Celery Salad Bread Butter 

Apple Jelly 

Dinner 

Swiss Steak Mashed Potatoes 

Fried Onions Kale Sliced Tomatoes 

Bread Butter Coffee Milk 

Creamed Rice with Dates Cream 

189 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

OCTOBER 3. (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Roast Chicken Stuffing Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Brussel Sprouts with Celery 

Gravy Currant Jelly Bread Butter 

Vanilla Ice Cream Chocolate Sauce 

Coffee Saltines 

Supper 

Chicken Salad fLettuce 

. Sandwiches [-Date 

[Pimento Cheese 
Chocolate Cocoanut Cake 

OCTOBER 4 

Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Rice Saltines 

Fried Sweet Potatoes Vegetable Salad 

Butter Cornmeal Muffins Carrot Marmalade 

Dinner 

Mutton Chops Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Onions Cole Slaw Buttered Beets 

Bread Butter Coffee Milk 

Lemon Pie 

OCTOBER 5 
Lunch 

Vegetable Soup 

Tomato and Egg Salad Celery Bread 

Butter Cantalope 

Dinner 

Meat Loaf Creamed Potatoes 

Fried Parsnips Turnip Greens with Bacon 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Baked Apple Stuffed with Raisins Cream 

OCTOBER 6 

Lunch 

Cream of Pea Soup Croutons 

Scalloped Potatoes Waldorf Salad 

Bread Butter Rhubarb Conserve 

Dinner 

Reheated Meat Loaf Tomato Sauce Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Cauliflower Cole Slaw 

Bread Butter 

Chocolate Souffle Hard Sauce 

190 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Italian Spaghetti 

Bread 

Cup Cake 



OCTOBER 7 

Limch 

Cod Fish Cakes 

Butter Waldorf Salad 

Chocolate Sauce 

Dinner 

Mashed Potatoes 



Fricassee of Veal 
Chili Sauce Bread 

Prune Whip 



Turnip Greens 
Butter Creamed Parsnips 

Custard Sauce 



Mexican Beans 
Cucumber Pickles 
Bread 



Broiled Mackerel 
Creamed Carrots and Peas 
Bread 

Bread Pudding 



OCTOBER 8 

Lunch 

Scalloped Corn 
Grapefruit and Celery Salad 
Butter Milk 

Dinner 

Mashed Potatoes 
Pickled Peaches Kale 

Butter Coffee 

Saltines 



OCTOBER 9 
Lmich 

Creamed Eggs on Toast 
Bread Butter 

Sliced Oranges and Cocoanut 

Dinner 

Broiled Ham Mashed Potatoes 

Swiss Chard Carrot and Pea Salad Milk Gravy 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Brown Betty Cream 



Stewed Tomatoes 
Coffee Milk 

Doughnuts 



Broiled Steak 

Brussel Sprouts 
Horse Radish Bread 

Peach Ice Cream 



OCTOBER 10 (Sunday) 
Dinner 
Glazed Sweet Potatoes or Mashed Potatoes 



Creamed Celery 
Butter Coffee 

Saltines 



Supper 

Cottage Cheese Salad Nut Bread 

Chocolate Cherry Jam Bread Butter 

Cup Cake Foamy Sauce 

191 



TllK AMI'.KICAN ilOMlC DUiT, OR 

OCTOBER 11 

Lunch 

Cream of Potato Soup Saltines 

Macaroni ami Cheese Beet atul Cabbage Salad 

Hrcad Butter Grapes 

Dinner 

Casserole Rice and Meat Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Tomato Sauce Kale Mixed Pickle 

Creamed Turnips 

Bread Butter Milk 

Ai)ple Duniplinj; Creamy Sauce 



OCTOBER 12 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Cheese Soutll6 Butter Milk 

Bakinj^ Powder Biscuits Honey 

Dinner 

Liver antl Bacon - Mashed Potatoes 

Swiss Chard Cole Slaw Bread Butter 

i>anana Custard Coffee 



OCTOBER 13 

Lunch 

Scalloped Potatoes Creamed Lima Beans 

Dill Picklei Bread Butter 

Pineapple Sauce Oatmeal Cookies 

Dinner 

Boiled Tongue Baked Potatoes 

Tomato Sauce Creamed Cauliflower 

Celery Bread Butter CofYee 

Date Pudding Whipped Cream 



OCTOBER 14 
Lunch 

Cream of Celery Soup Saltines 

Boiled Rice or Sweet Potatoes Creamed Dried Beef 

Bread Cole Slaw Butter 

Baked Apple Cream 

Dinner 

Cold Tongue Creamed Potatoes 

Kale or Turnip Greens Boiled Cabbage with Dressing 

Bread Butter Chili Sauce 

Lemon Pie 

193 



WHAT SITALT. WE irAVF-: FOR DINNER? 

OCTOBER 15 

Lunch 

Corn SouKlc Fried Sweet Potatoes 

Pear Salad Milk Tea 

Graiiani Muffins Butter 

Dinner 

Salmon Cutlets Maslicd Potatoes 

Creamed Onions Bread Butter 

Spiced Peaches Coffee Milk 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad 

Cheese Crackers 



OCTOBER 16 

Lunch 

Cream of Pea Soup Croutons 

Stuffed Green Peppers Banana and Nut Salad 

Bread Butter Milk 

Dinner 

Stuffed Beef Heart Mashe<l Potatoes 

Kale or Brussel Sprouts Sliced Onions and Cucumbers 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Brown Betty Foamy Sauce 



OCTOBER 17 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Chicken Pie Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Celery Olives Beet Pickles 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Fruit Jcllo with Whipped Cream 

Supper 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 

Celery Hearts Mixed Nuts Apples 

Chocolate Spiced Cookies 



OCTOBER 18 
Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Noodles 

Hash Brown Potatoes Cole Slaw 

Butter Cornmcal Muffins Syrup 

Dinner 

Beef Birds Creamed Potatoes 

Buttered Picets Swiss Chard Bread Butter 

Grapefruit Coffee 

193 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

OCTOBER 19 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup Saltines 

Scalloped Corn Beet and Cabbage Salad 

Bread Butter Milk 

Grapes 

Dinner 

Pork Tenderloin Mashed Potatoes 

Milk Gravy Baked Hubbard Squash 

Cole Slaw Bread Butter 

Coffee Caramel Custard 

OCTOBER 20 
Lunch 

Rice and Cheese Croquettes with Tomato Sauce 

Cottage Cheese Salad White Muffin? 

Strawberry Jam Butter 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Brown Potatoes 

Gravy Kale Creamed Carrots 

Dill Pickles Bread Butter 

Creamed Rice with Raisins 

Cream 

OCTOBER 21 

Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup Saltines 

Potato Cakes Waldorf Salad . Milk 

Bread Butter Gingerbread Coffee 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Reheated in Gravy Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Brussel Sprouts Cabbage and Celery Salad 

Bread Butter 

Baked Apple Stuffed with Dates 

Cream 

OCTOBER 22 

Lunch 

Creamed Finnan Haddie or Kippered Herring 

Boiled Rice or Baked Potatoes 

Banana and Nut Salad Baking Powder Biscuits 

Honey Milk Tea Butter 

Dinner 

Broiled Trout Mashed Potatoes 

Fried Egg Plant Lettuce Salad Egg Sauce 

Creamed Onions Bread Butter 

Bread Pudding 

194 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



OCTOBER 23 
Lunch 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad 

Bread Butter Milk Rhubarb Conserve 

Sliced Oranges and Cocoanut 

Dinner 

Meat Pie Creamed Cabbage 



Spinach with Bacon 
Bread 



Butter 



Grapes 



Apples 



OCTOBER 24 (Sunday) 
Dinner 

Vealed Cutlets in Casserole 

Creamed Turnips Celery 

Bread Butter Milk 



Beet Pickles 
Coffee 



Mashed Potatoes 
Olives 
Tea 



Vanilla Ice Cream 

Supper 
Shrimp or Salmon Salad 
Mixed Nuts Chocolate 

Canned Peaches 

OCTOBER 25 
Lunch 

Cream of Potato Soup 
Lima Beans in Casserole 

Bread Butter 

Dinner 
Rice and Veal Croquettes 

Swiss Chard 



Angel Food Cake 

Cheese Crackers 

Marshmallows 
Cream 



Saltines 

Cole Slaw 
Apple Sauce 

Tomato Sauce 
Buttered Beets 



Bread 



Butter 
Cherry Pudding 



Currant Jelly 



Sauce 



Coffee 



OCTOBER 26 
Lunch 

Macaroni and Dried Beef 
Waldorf Salad 

Cornmeal Mufifins Butter 

Dinner 
Beef Birds 
Kale Boiled Hubbard Squash 

Spanish Cream Sugar Cookies 

OCTOBER 27 
Lunch 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Bread Butter 

Creamed Rice with Dates 

Dinner 
Stuffed Spare Ribs 
Sauer Kraut 

Bread Butter 

Apple Pie 

195 



Cucumber Pickles 
Syrup Milk 

Creamed Potatoes 

Bread Butter 

Coffee 



Cabbage and Nut Salad 
Milk Coffee 

Cream 

Mashed Potatoes 
Creamed Brussel Sprouts 
Coffee 
Cheese 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

OCTOBER 28 

Lunch 

Cream of Corn Soup Saltines 

Bread Stufifed Green Peppers Potato Puff Butter 

Black Raspberry Sauce 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops Boiled Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Peas Kale Bread 

Buttered Turnips 

Butter Milk Coffee 

Tapioca Cream 

OCTOBER 29 

Lunch 

Codfish Cakes Hash Brown Potatoes 

Bread Butter Catsup Milk 

Banana Fritters Sauce 

Dinner 



Scalloped Salmon 


Mashed Potatoes 


Turnip Greens Celery 


Creamed Onions 


Bread Butter 


Coffee 


Cottage Pudding 


Foamy Sauce 


OCTOBER 


30 


Lunch 




Vegetable Soup 


Saltines 


Baked Beans Catsup 


Bread 


Butter 


Milk 


Baked Apple 


Cream 


Dinner 




Veal Stew 


Glazed Sweet Potatoes 


Creamed Cabbage 


Lettuce and Onion Salad 


Bread Butter 


Coffee 


Caramel Custard 


Whipped Cream 



OCTOBER 31 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Roast Chicken Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Cauliflower Spinach Cabbage and Celery Salad 

Bread Butter Currant Jelly Coffee 

Pineapple Sherbet or Vanilla Ice Cream 

Saltines 

Supper 

Soft Boiled Eggs Bread Butter 

Banana and Nut Salad Cheese Crackers 

Chocolate Cocoanut Cake 

196 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

NOVEMBER 1 (Monday) 
Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Noodles 

Italian Spaghetti Graham Muffins 

Butter Milk Rhubarb Conserve 

Dinner 

Meat Loaf Baked Potatoes Kale 

Lettuce Salad 

Cucumber Pickles Bread Butter Coflfee 

Apple Dumpling Foamy Sauce 



NOVEMBER 2 

Lunch 

Potato Pufif Creamed Lima Beans 

Bread Butter Cole Slaw 

French Toast Syrup 

Dinner 

Reheated Loaf with Tomato Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes Turnip Greens or Spinach 

Bread Butter Buttered Beets 

Chocolate Souffle Cream 



NOVEMBER 3 
Lunch 

Creamed Tuna Fish Boiled Rice or Sweet Potatoes 

Banana and Nut Salad Bread Butter 

Cherry Jam or Apple Jelly 

Dinner 

Corned Beef Boiled Potatoes Carrots Cabbage 

Tomato and Onion Salad 
Bread Butter Milk Coflfee 

Lemon Pie 



NOVEMBER 


4 








Lunch 








Kidney Bean Salad 








Cole Slaw 


White Muffins 


Butter 






Honey 


Tea 


Dinner 






Milk 


Corn Beef Hash 






Creamed Potatoes 


Lettuce Salad 


St 


ewed 


Tomatoes 


Buttered Turnips 


Bread 






Butter 


Cherry Pudding 








Sauce 



197 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

NOVEMBER 5 

Lunch 

Vegetable Soup 5altines 

Codfish Cakes Catsup Bread Butter 

Baked Apple Stuffed with Raisins Cream 

Dinner 

Broiled Mackerel Mashed Potatoes 

Baked Squash Creamed Celery Bread 

Butter Coffee Milk 

Apricot Fluff with Custard Sauce 

NOVEMBER 6 

Lmich 

Cream of Tomato Soup Croutons 

Potato and Pea Salad Celery Gingerbread 

Coffee Milk Bread Butter 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots Celery Cucumber Pickles 

Bread Butter 

Brown Betty Creamy Sauce 

NOVEMBER 7 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Broiled Steak Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Cauliflower Spinach Olives 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Vanilla Ice Cream Caramel Sauce Saltines 

Supper 

Oyster Stew Crackers 

Waldorf Salad Bread Butter 

Chocolate Sponge Cake 

NOVEMBER 8 
Lunch 

Fish Chowder or Cream of Potato Soup Saltines 

Cabbage and Celery Salad Bread Butter 

Canned Peaches Cream 

Cake (left-over) 

Dinner 

Liver and Bacon Creamed Potatoes 

Creamed Celery Brussel Sprouts Mixed Pickle 

Bread Butter Tea 

Apple Pie Cheese Coffee 

198 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

NOVEMBER 9 
Lunch 

Cream of Celery Soup Saltines 

Lima Beans in Casserole Corn Bread Butter 

Strawberry Jam Milk 

Dinner 

Swiss Steak Baked Potatoes 

Fried Onions Creamed Carrots 

Bread Butter Chow-Chow 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad Cheese Crackers 

NOVEMBER 10 
Lunch 

Corn Souffle Scalloped Potatoes 

Bread Butter Dill Pickles 

Banana Fritters Sauce 

Dinner 

Boiled Tongue Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Tomato Sauce Creamed Parsnips or Turnips 

Swiss Chard Bread Butter 

Apples Mixed Nuts 

NOVEMBER 11 
Lunch 

Creamed Dried Beef Baked Potatoes 

Bread Butter Milk Spiced Peaches 

Waldorf Salad Cheese Crackers 

Dinner 

Rice and Meat in Casserole Creamed Onions 

Baked Squash Bread Butter Coflfee 

Chocolate Steamed Pudding Foamy Sauce 





NOVEMBER 


12 




Lunch 




Cream of Corn 


Soup 


Saltines 


Tuna Fish Salad 




Corn Bread 


Butter 


Orange Marmalade or Syrup 




Dinner 




Salmon Croquettes 




Mashed Potatoes 


Creamed Peas 




Lettuce Salad 


Bread 


Butter 


Coflfee 


Bread Pudding 




Vanilla Wafers 




NOVEMBER 


13 




Lunch 




Vegetable Soup 




Saltines 


Baked Beans 


Catsup 
Apple Sauce 


Cole Slaw 


Bread 


Dinner 


Butter 


Broiled Ham 




Creamed Potatoes 


Boiled Cabbage with Dressing 


Celery 


Bread 


Butter 


Coflfee 


Cocoanut Custard 


Saltines 



199 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

NOVEMBER 14 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Veal Cutlets in Casserole Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Celery Stewed Tomatoes Cnrrant Jelly- 

Bread Butter Milk 

Date Pudding Whipped Cream 

Supper 



We 

Waldorf Salad 

Chocolate 


Ish Rarebit on 


Toast 

Salted Peanuts 
Oatmeal Cookies 




NOVEMBER 


15 




Lunch 




Italian Spaghetti 
Bread 

Baked Apple 


Butter 
Dinner 


Stuffed Green Peppers 

Cucumber Pickles 
Cream 


Reheated Cutlets in Casserole 

Creamed Onions Kale 
Bread Butter 


Boiled Sweet Potatoes 
Cole Slaw 
Tea 



Banana Cream Pie 



NOVEMBER 16 

Lunch 

Scalloped Oysters Fried Sweet Potatoes 

Bread Butter Spiced Peaches 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad Cheese Crackers 

Dinner 

Stuffed Beef Heart French Fried Potatoess 

Spinach with Egg Celery Bread Butter 

Prune Fluff with Custard Sauce 



NOVEMBER 17 
Lunch 

Corn Chowder 

Mexican Beans Cabbage and Nut Salad 

Bread Butter Carrot Marmalade 

Milk Tea 

Dinner 

Mutton Chops Mashed Potatoes 

Buttered Beets Tomato Relish Creamed Celery 

Bread Butter 

Fruit Jello with Whipped Cream 

200 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

NOVEMBER 18 

Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup Croutons 

Scalloped Potatoes Dill Pickles 

Bread Butter Waldorf Salad 

Dinner 

Veal Stew with Dumplings 
Creamed Brussel Sprouts Buttered Parsnips 

Baked Squash 

Bread Butter Spiced Pears 

Lemon Pie 

NOVEMBER 19 

Lunch 

Cheese Souffle Cole Slaw 

Banana and Nut Salad Gingerbread 

Milk Butter 

Dinner 

Broiled Trout Boiled Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots Egg Sauce Kale Bread Butter 

Baked Apple Cream 



NOVEMBER 20 


Lunch 




Vegetable Soup 

Baked Beans 
Cottage Cheese Salad Bread 
Cup Cake 

Dinner 


Saltines 

Butter 
Foamy Sauce 


Stuffed Round Steak 
Creamed Onions 

Cabbage and Apple 
Bread Butter 

Chocolate Custard 


Mashed Potatoes 

Chili Sauce 
Salad 

Milk Coffee 
Cream 



NOVEMBER 21 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Baked Ham Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Cauliflower Spinach 

Cranberry Jelly Bread Butter CofTee 

Vanilla Ice Cream Saltines 

Supper 

Oyster Stew Crackers 

Sandwiches (Peanut Butter, Cheese and Date, Lettuce) 

Celery Chocolate 

Cocoanut Cake 

201 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



NOVEMBER 22 
Lunch 

Cream of Celery Soup 



Boiled Rice 



Scalloped Tomatoes 
Bread 



Butter 

Dinner 

Cold Ham 
Fried Egg Plant or Parsnips 

Creamed Turnips Bread 

Caramel Pie or Mince Pie 



Saltines 

Waldorf Salad 
Cherry Jam 

Creamed Potatoes 

Chili Sauce 
Butter 
Coffee Cheese 



NOVEMBER 23 

Lunch 

Lima Beans in Casserole 
Graham Mufilins 

Cranberry Sauce 

Dinner 

Ham Omelet 
Creamed Peas Pear Salad 

Bread Butter 

Brown Betty 



Cole Slaw 
Butter 



Milk 



Mashed Potatoes 
Kale Celery 

Coffee 
Foamy Sauce 



NOVEMBER 24 

Lunch 

Cream of Pea Soup Croiitons 

Scalloped Corn 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad Raisin Bread Butter 

Dinner 

Meat Pie Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots Cucumber Pickles 

Kale or Spinach 

Bread Butter Milk 

Apple Dumpling Hard Sauce 

NOVEMBER 25 (Thanksgiving Day) 

Dinner 

I. 



Celery 




Clear Soup 


B 


read Sticks 


Roast Chicken 




Stuffing 


M; 


ashed Potatoes 


Buttered Asparagus 




Giblet Gravy 




Cranberry Sauce 


Parker House 


Roll 


s Butter 




Olives 


Mixed Nuts 




Pumpkin Pie 

IL 

Oyster Stew 




Fruit 










Roast Chicken 




Stufifing 




Giblet Gravy 


Mashed Potatoes 




Creame 


;d Onions 


Cranberry Jelly 






Parker 


House Rolls 


Sweet Pickles 


Butter 


Ri 


pe Olives 


Mince Pie 




Cheese 




Cider 



203 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



III. 

Roast Turkey Oyster Stuffing 

Giblet Gravy Boiled Squash Cranberry Sauce 

Creamed Brussel Sprouts 
Butter Olives Celery 

Mixed Nuts 
Pumpkin Pie Cheese 

Supper 

Cheese Crackers 
Nuts Chocolate 

Fruit Cake 



Mashed Potatoes 
Parker House Rolls 

Raisins 
Coffee 



Fruit Salad 



Apples 



NOVEMBER 26 

Lunch 

Codfish Chowder or Creamed Chicken Boiled Sweet Potatoes 

Cottage Cheese and Nut Salad Cornmeal Muffins 

Black Raspberry Jam 

Dinner 

Broiled Halibut 
Spinach with Egg Bread 

Celery Coffee 

Cherry Pudding 



Mashed Potatoes 
I 

Creamed Turnips 
Sauce 



Butter 



Baked Beans 



Bread 



Spinach 



NOVEMBER 27 

Lunch 
Chicken Soup with Noodles 

Butter Steamed Brown Bread 

Creamed Rice with Raisins 

Dinner 

Rice and Meat in Casserole 
Creamed Onions 



Orange Custard 



Butter 



Waldorf Salad 

Cucumber Pickles 
Tea 



NOVEMBER 28 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Lamb Chops 
Creamed Brussel Sprouts and Celery 

Cranberry Sauce Bread 

Coffee Date Pudding 

Supper 

Stuffed Egg Salad 
Celery Salted Peanuts 



Mashed Potatoes 

Olives 
Butter 
Whipped Cream 



Nut Bread 



Butter 



Chocolate 



Oatmeal Cookies 



203 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



NOVEMBER 29 
Lunch 

Macaroni and Cheese 
Banana and Nut Salad Milk 

Baked Apple 

Dinner 

Veal Birds Mashed Potatoes 

Boiled Cabbage with Dressing 

Corn Relish Bread Butter 

Fruit Jello with Whipped Cream 



Dill Pickles 
Bread Butter 

Cream 



Cream of Potato Soup 

Scalloped Corn 
Butter 



Gravy 



Meat Loaf 
Bread 



NOVEMBER 30 
Lunch 

Graham Muffins 
Dinner 

Buttered Beets 

Coffee 
Banana Cream Pie 



Saltines 
Chili Sauce 
Cranberry Sauce 



Baked Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad 
Butter 



DECEMBER 1. (Wednesday) 

Lunch 

Saltines 
Baking Powder Biscuits 
Milk 

Dinner 

Mashed Potatoes 
Creamed String Beans 
Bread Baked Squash Butter Celery 

Coffee Caramel Custard Cream 



Vegetable Soup 
Potato and Pea Salad 
Honey 

Reheated Meat Loaf 
Tomato Sauce 



DECEMBER 2 

Lunch 

Creamed Dried Beef Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Cole Slaw Bread Butter 

Sliced Oranges and Cocoanut 



Liver and Bacon 
Spinach 

Chow-Chow 
Brown Betty 



Dinner 



Bread 
Hard Sauce 

204 



Mashed Potatoes 
Lettuce and Onion Salad 
Butter 
Vanilla Wafers 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

DECEMBER 3 

Lunch 

Corn Chowder 

Cheese Souffle Waldorf Salad 

Bread Butter Milk CofJee 

Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Salmon Croquettes Creamed Peas 

Mashed Potatoes Spiced Currants 

Bread Celery Butter 

Caramel Custard Whipped Cream 

DECEMBER 4 

Lunch 

Potato Cakes Mustard Sardines 

Cabbage and Celery Salad Graham Muffins Butter 

Apple Jelly Milk 

Dinner 

Pork Tenderloin Baked Potatoes 

Creamed Onions Kale Milk Gravy 

Bread Butter Mixed Nuts 

Apples 

DECEMBER 5 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Chicken Pie Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Celery Cranberry Sauce Olives 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Vanilla Ice Cream Chocolate Sauce 

Saltines 

Supper 



Raw Oysters 


or 


Oyster Stew 


Potato Chips 


Bread 


Butter 


Pineapple Salad 




Cheese Crackers 


Chocolate 


Popcorn Balls 


Mixed Nuts 



DECEMBER 6 

Lunch 

Chicken Soup with Rice 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad Bread Butter 

Grape Jelly Apple Sauce Cream 

Dinner:, 

Broiled Ham Creamed Potatoes 

Brussel Sprouts Bread Butter Milk 

Cucumber Pickles Celery 

Raisin Pie Coffee Cheese 

205 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

DECEMBER 7 

Lunch 

Cream of Corn Soup Saltines 

Scalloped Oysters Bread Butter 

Cabbage and Celery Salad 

Doughnuts Coflfee 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Brown Potatoes 

Gravy Celery Creamed Onions Lettuce Salad 

Bread Butter Milk 

Prune Fluff Custard Sauce 

DECEMBER 8 
Lunch 

Vegetable Chowder 

Rice and Cheese Croquettes with Tomato Sauce 

Bread Butter Celery 

Peach Sauce Cream 

Dinner 

Reheated Pot Roast with Gravy 

Mashed Potatoes Baked Squash Creamed Cauliflower 

Cole Slaw Bread Butter 

Bread Pudding Coffee 

DECEMBER 9 

Lunch 

Cream of Potato Soup Saltines 

Scalloped Corn 

Banana and Nut Salad White Muffins Butter 

Apple Fritters Sauce 

Dinner 

Rice and Meat in Casserole 

Boiled Cabbage with Dressing Creamed Turnips 

Bread Butter Spiced Peaches 

Date Pudding with Whipped Cream 

DECEMBER 10 

Lunch 

Creamed Tuna Fish Baked Potatoes 

Cucumber Pickles or Corn Relish Bread Butte» 

Baked Apple Stuffed with Raisins Cream 

Dinner 

Broiled Halibut Mashed Potatoes 

Spinach with Egg Celery Baked Squash 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Apricot Sherbet or Apricot Fluff and Foamy Sauce 

206 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Baked Beans 
Bread 



DECEMBER 11 
Lunch 

Cole Slaw 
Butter 
French Toast Syrup 



Liver and Bacon 
Buttered Beets 

Bread 
Apple Dumpling 



Dinner 

Celery 



Grape Jell 



Catsup 



Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Spiced Pears 
Butter 

Hard Sauce 



DECEMBER 12 (Sunday) 

Dinner 

Roast Pork Mashed Potatoes 

Sauer Kraut Creamed Carrots Celery 

Cranberry Jelly Bread Butter 

Pineapple Sauce Coffee 

Devil's Food Cake 



Supper 

Soft Boiled Eggs Bread 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad 
Mixed Nuts 



Butter 

Chocolat; 
Popcorn Rolls 



DECEMBER 13 

Liuich 

Cream of Celery Soup 



Saltines 
Bread Butter 

Syrup 



Scalloped Potatoes Cucumber Pickles 
Corn Bread 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Pork Creamed Potatoes 

Buttered Turnips Swiss Chard Bread 

Butter Chili Sauce Milk 

Mince Pie Cheese Coffee 



DECEMBER 14 

Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
Meat and Potato Cakes 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

Butter 

Dinner 

Beef Birds 
Creamed Onions Celery 

Bread Butter 

Chocolate Souffle 



CrotJtons 

Cole Slaw 
Honey 



Mashed Potatoes 

Corn Relish 
Milk 
Foamy Sauce 



307 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

DECEMBER 15 
Lunch 

Creamed Dried Beef Boiled Rice 

Pickled Peaches Bread Butter 

Baked Apple Stuffed with Raisins 

Sugar Cookies Cream 

Dinner 

Boiled Tongue Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Kale Tomato Sauce Creamed Celery 

Bread Butter Tea 

Lemon Custard Sugar Cookies 



DECEMBER 16 
Lunch 

Scalloped Corn 
Pickled Pigs Feet or Mustard Sardines 
Cornmeal Muffins Butter 

Apple Sauce Cream 

Dinner 
Cold Tongue 
Creamed Brussel Sprouts and Celery- 
Asparagus Salad 
Bread Butter 

Cranberry Pie Cheese 



Syrup 



Mashed Potatoes 

Chili Sauce 

Coffee 



DECEMBER 17 
Lunch 
Mexican Beans or 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad 



Oyster Stew 

Butter 
Coffee 



Bread 
Catsup Doughnuts 

Dinner 

Broiled Halibut or Baked Haddock with Stuffing 
Lemon Creamed Potatoes Buttered Beets 

Bread Stewed Tomatoes Butter 



Creamed Rice with Dates 



Cream 



DECEMBER 18 
Lunch 

Vegetable Soup 
Cottage Cheese Salad 
Bread 
Canned Peaches 

Dinner 
Veal Stew with Dumplings 
Cole Slaw 

Pickled Peaches 
Bread Butter 

Pumpkin Pie 

208 



Saltines 
Hash Brown Potatoes 
Butter 

Cream 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 
Creamed Turnips 

Coffee 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 

DECEMBER 19 (Sunday) 
Dinner 



Roast Lamb 
Brussel Sprouts 
Cranberry Sauce Bread 

Apples 



Brown Potatoes 
Creamed Lima Beans 

Butter Coffee 

Mixed Nuts 



Supper 

Welsh Rarebit on Toast 

Waldorf Salad Nut Bread Butter 

Chocolate Marshmallows 



Celery 



DECEMBER 20 
Lunch 



Kidney Stew 
Caramel Custard 



Lamb Reheated with Gravy 

Spinach with Egg 
Bread Butter 

Brown Betty 



Bread 
Dinner 



Scalloped Potatoes 
Cream 



Butter 



Mashed Potatoes 
Pepper Relish 
Succotash Milk 

Foamy Sauce 



DECEMBER 21 

Lunch 

Cream of Potato Soup 
Baked Beans Catsup Bread 

Banana and Nut Salad 



Saltines 



Butter 



Dinner 

Stuffed Beef Heart 

Creamed Onions Spinach 

Bread Butter 

Tapioca Custard 



Boiled Sweet Potatoes 
Cucumber Pickles 

Cranberry Sauce 
Cream 



DECEMBER 22 
Lunch 



Boiled Rice 
Bread Butter 

Banana Fritters 



Cheese Sauce 
Cabbage and Nut Salad 
Sauce 



Dinner 

Baked Ham Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots Celery Bread 

Butter Chili Sauce Coffee 

Apple Dumpling Hard Sauce 



209 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 

DECEMBER 23 

Lunch 

Macaroni and Cheese Fried Sweet Potatoes 

Waldorf Salad Bread Butter ' Milk 

Tea Rhubarb Conserve 



Dinner 




Cold Baked Ham 


Creamed Potatoes 


Buttered Beets 


Swiss Chard 


Bread Butter 


Chow-Chow 


Pumpkin Pie 


Cheese 



DECEMBER 24 
Lunch 

Creamed Tuna Fish or Creamed Ham 

Baked Potatoes Cole Slaw 

Graham Muffins Butter Apple Jelly 

Dinner 

Salmon Loaf Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots and Peas Pear Salad 

Bread Butter Coffee 

Bread Pudding 

DECEMBER 25 (Christmas) 

Dinner 

Clear Soup Bread Sticks 

Roast Turkey or Chicken 

Potato Stuffing Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Onions Boiled Squash 

Lettuce Salad with Cheese Straws 

Bread Butter Olives Coffee Salted Pecans 

English Plum Pudding Sweet Sauce 

(See Thanksgiving Menus Also.) 

Supper 

Grapefruit and Celery Salad Bread Butter 

Chocolate Fruit Cake 

Apples Mixed Nuts 





DECEMBER 26 (Sunday) 






Dinner 




Glazed 
Reheate 


Chicken or Turkey a la King 
Sweet Potatoes 
Bread Butter 
;d English Plum Pudding 


Toast 
Creamed Celery 
Cranberry Sauce 

Sweet Sauce 


Stuffed 


Mince Pie 

Oyster Stew 
Egg Salad 
Chocolate 

Nuts 


Supper 
Bread 


Cheese 

Saltines 

Butter 
Fruit Cake 
Apples 



210 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



DECEMBER 27 
Lunch 



Vegetable Soup 
Rice and Cheese Croquettes 

Bread Butter 



Saltines 

Tomato Sauce 
Apple Sauce 



Dinner 

Creamed Chicken or Turkey in Pastry Cases 

Mashed Potatoes Succotash Creamed Onions 

Bread Butter Celery 

Cranberry Pie Cofifee 



DECEMBER 28 
Lunch 

Chicken or Turkey Soup with Noodles 
r ima Beans in Casserole 

Bread Butter 

Sliced Oranges with Cocoanut 
Nuts 



Cole Slaw 
Milk 



Lamb Chops 
Creamed Brussel Sprouts 

Bread 
Waldorf Salad 



Dinner 



Butter 



Mashed Potatoes 

Celery 
Plum Conserve 

Cheese Straws 



Italian Spaghetti 

Cup Cake 



DECEMBER 29 
Lunch 

Fish Chowder 
Bread 



Swiss Steak 
Fried Onions 
Bread 

Cherry Pudding 



Dinner 

Butter 



Foamy Sauce 



Butter 



Baked Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots 
Dill Pickles 
Sauce 



Boiled Sweet Potatoes 
Butter 
Honey 



DECEMBER 30 

Lunch 

Creamed Dried Beef 

Spiced Peaches Bread 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

Dinner 

Meat Pie or Fried Oysters Brussel Sprouts with Bacon 

Creamed Turnips Raised Biscuits Butter 

Coffee Corn Relish 

Canned Pineapple Sugar Cookies 

211 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



DECEMBER 31 
Lunch 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
Codfish Cakes 

Bread Butter 

Sliced Bananas 



Broiled Halibut 
Baked Squash 
Bread 

Brown Betty 



Dinner 

Butter 



Croiitons 
Hash Brown Potatoes 
Catsup 
Cream 



Creamed Potatoes 

Spinach with Egg 
Coffee 
Foamy Sauce 



312 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



RECIPES 

Some of the recipes in the following -pages have been taken with permission from the 
Boston Cooking School Cook Book, by Fannie M. Farmer; and the New Cookery, by 
Lenna Cooper. These and other standard books on cookery may be consulted for fur- 
ther details. 



SOUPS, CHOWDERS, ETC. 

Cream soups are made of vege- 
tables with milk and seasonings. 
They are always slightly thickened. 
A general formula for the white 
sauce to be used for crearn soups 
follows : 

1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons flour 
2 tablespoons butter 

H teaspoon salt 

The vegetable, for example celery, 
is usually cut in small pieces and 
cooked in a small amount of water. 
It is then mashed and strained into 
the white sauce. Any left-over veg- 
etable as potatoes, peas, corn, celery, 
spinach or tomatoes, can be used in 
this way. Some prefer the addition 
of an onion to nearly all creamed 
soups. This has to be left to indi- 
vidual tastes. For a detailed discus- 
sion of cream soups see a good cook 
book, as The Boston Cooking School 
Cook Book. 

The above formula is also used for 
creamed vegetables as peas, carrots, 
potatoes, etc., and for meats and fish, 
as creamed ham, dried beef, tuna 
fish, etc. If one prefers a thicker 
sauce more flour is added. 

Croutons 

Spread stale bread thinly with but- 
ter, remove crusts, cut in one-third 
inch cubes, put in pan and bake un- 
til brown or fry in deep fat. 

Vegetable Soup. 

2 lbs. shin bone or 
2 oxtails 
^2 turnip 
1 carrot 
4 potatoes 



3 tablespoons rice or barley 
yz cup celery 

1 small red pepper 
About 4 quarts cold water 
Salt and pepper 

Cook meat in the water about 2 
hours. Add vegetables and cook iH 
hours longer. Add more water when 
necessary. 

Oyster Stew. 

1 quart oysters 

4 cups scalded milk 
yl cup butter 

2 teaspoons salt 
yi teaspoon pepper 

"pick over oysters and wash care- 
fully. Heat liquor to boiling^ point, 
strain, add oysters and cook until 
oysters are plump and edges begin 
to curl. Add scalded milk, butter, 
salt and pepper. Serve with oyster 
crackers or saltines. 

Corn Chowder. 

1 can corn 

4 cups potatoes cut in 

14 inch slices 
1^ inch cube of fat 
salt pork 

1 sliced onion 

4 cups scalded milk 

8 crackers 

3 tablespoons butter 
Salt and pepper 

Cut pork into small pieces and try 
out; add onion and cook five min- 
utes. Strain fat into stewpan. Par- 
boil potatoes 5 minutes, drain. Add 
potatoes to fat. Then add 2 cup.'= 
boiling water. Cook until potatoes 
are soft, add corn and milk. Sea- 
son With salt and pepper, add butter, 
and broken crackers. Serve hot. 

213 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Welsh Rarebit. 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon cornstarch 
Yi cup thin cream 
Yi lb. soft mild cheese cut in 

small pieces 
\(x teaspoon salt 
^ teaspoon mustard 
Few gratings cayenne 
Toast 

Melt butter, add cornstarch, an! 
stir until well mixed, then add cream 
gradually, stirring constantly. Cook 
two minutes. Add cheese and stir 
until cheese is melted. Season and 
serve on toast or crackers. A rare- 
bit should be smooth and of a cream ■ 
consistency, never stringy. 

Fish Chowder 

Proceed as for corn chowder but 
use 2 small cans of fish flakes in- 
stead of corn. 

Vegetable Chowder. 

'4 cup drfed split peas _ 

Yx cup dried white beans 

1 cup diced potatoes 
V/2 cup diced celery 
Yi. cup diced turnips 
Yz cup diced carrots 

1 cup strained tomatoes 

3 tablespoons butter 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
Y2 cup diced onions 
V/2 teaspoon salt 

Soak peas and beans over night. 
Cook them in water to cover until 
tender. Add the other vegetables. 
Cook until all are tender. Add suf- 
ficient water to make xYi qujirts of 
chowder. Add salt and butter and 
serve. 

Cheese Sauce. 

1 cup milk 

3 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter 
Yi. teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon grated cheese 
Make the white sauce and then 
melt cheese in it. If a thinner white 
sauce is desired use less flour. 



Creamed Eggs. 

Place a hard boiled egg cut length 
wise on a slice of toast. Pour over 
it a well seasoned white sauce. 

MEATS, FISH, ETC. 
Duck Stuffing (Peanut). 

34 cup cracker crumbs 
Y2 cup shelled peanuts 

finely chopped 
V^ cup heavy cream 



2 tablespoons butter 
Few drops of onion juice 
Salt, pepper, cayenne 

Mix ingredients in the order given. 
Salmon Loaf. 

1 can salmon 

Y2 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup bread crumbs 

3 eggs (beaten) 
Yz cup milk 

Mix well together and put into 
buttered pan and put pan in hot water 
and bake 1 hour. 

Sauce for Salmon Loaf. 

1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon flour 

2 teaspoons butter 

3 teaspoons catsup 

1 egg 
Pinch mace 

Heat in double boiler. 

Tomato Sauce. 

VYi cup strained, stewed tomatoes or 
Y2 cup condensed tomato and 1 cup 
water 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 
1 teaspoon salt 

Heat the tomato, rub flour and Imt- 
ter together. Pour over this the hot 
tomato, slowly stirring mixture. 
Boil for 5 minutes. A little onion 
or celery salt may be added. 

Lemon Sauce for Fish. 

Ya cup butter 

J4 cup flour 

Y2 teaspoon salt 

Ya cup vinegar or lemon juice 

Y% teaspoon cayenne 

1^ cup hot water 

Cook about 5 minutes, then put in 
1 tablespoon parsley. 

214 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Egg Sauce for Fish. 

2 tablespoons butter, melted 
2 tablespoons flour 
Salt and pepper 

Add boiling wat^r to form a rather 
thick paste. Cool and add yolk of 1 
egg and 1 tablespoon vinegar or lem- 
on juice. 

Meat Loaf. 

2 lbs. ground beef 
54 lb. ground salt pork 
Y2 cup milk 

1 onion 

2 eggs 

2 teaspoons salt 

1 teaspoon pepper 

Make into a loaf, put in pan an '. 
bake 2 hours. 

Hamburger Layer. 

2 lbs. ground beef 

Yd, lb. ground salt pork 

2 teaspoons salt 

1 teaspoon pepper 
Spread out in baking dish until 
about iH inch thick. Put on top 2 
medium sized onions, sliced thin, and 
1 green pepper sliced thin, and 
enough tomato pulp to cover top or 
about 3 good sized tomatoes. Bake 
about 40 minutes. 

Lamb Croquettes. 

Grind up left-over lamb. To 1 cup 
of lamb add 1 cup of boiled potatoes 
or boiled rice, 1 tablespoon chonned 
onion, 3 tablespoons shortening. 1 
cup thick white sauce, salt and pep- 
per. Fry onion and then mix all 
together, shape and roll in dry bread 
crumbs, fry in deep fat and drain. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 

Finnan Haddie. 

Soak the finnan haddie to freshen 
it, as you would salted codfish. Then 
boil it until tender, drain, and pour 
white sauce over it. If codfish or 
finnan haddie are tied up in pieces 
of cloth they do not break up so 
while boiling. 



Beef Birds. 

Cut round steak into rather small 
pieces (2 in. x 3 in.) and salt and 
pepper it. Mix equal parts of chop- 
ped onion and beef suet together. 
Put about 2 tablespoons on each piece 
of steak and fold steak into a small 
roll. Either sew sides together or 
clamp them together by means of 
toothpick. Fry until brown, put in 
casserole, add a small amount of 
water and bake until done. 

Chicken a la King. 

2 cups cold diced fowl 
1 green pepper 

1 onion 

1 can mushrooms 

3 tablespoons butter 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 
V/2 cup milk 

y2 cup cream 

2 egg yolks 
Paprika 

Take the shredded green pepper 
and 1 can mushrooms and cook in 
the 3 tablespoons butter 5 rninutes. 
Add 1 small grated onion, 1 table- 
spoon cornstarch, 1^ curt milk, salt 
and paprika to taste. Add the chick- 
en and bring to boiling point, and 
add Yi cup cream with 2 ti%v volks 
beaten in it. Add a little lemon juice 
and serve on toast. 

Swiss Steak. 

Dredge round steak with flour, 
pound with a hammer until flour is 
pounded into meat. Repeat until 
meat will not hold any more flour. 
Salt and pepper must also be added. 
Fry in hot fat until done. Tough 
meat is made, by this method, more 
palatable. 

Stuffed Round Steak. 

Make a stuffing out of bread, 
onions, sage, salt, and pepper, and 
small amount of suet. Place dress- 
ing on round steak and fold meat 
over it. Sew sides of meat together 
to hold in place. Put in bakine oa'i 
with small amount of water and bake 
until done. Turn frequently and 
baste if it isn't in a self-basting 
roaster. 



215 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Veal Birds. 

Use slices of veal from leg cut as 
thinly as possible and salt and pep- 
per. Cut in pieces about ^Y^ in. x 
2 in. Make a dressing as for stuflFed 
steak. Sew each bird up. Fry until 
brown then place in baking dish, add 
cream to half cover meat, cook slow- 
ly until done. 

Veal Cutlets in Casserole. 

Salt and pepper veal cutlets. Dip 
in beaten egg, then in cracker or dry 
bread crumbs. Fry in hot fat until 
a golden brown. Put in casserole, 
add enough milk to just come to top 
of meat. Put small piece of butter 
on top. Bake slowly until done. 

Milk Gravy. 

After meat is fried put flour to 
brown in pan. When a golden brown 
add milk instead of water to make 
gravy. 

Casserole of Rice and Meat. 

Line a mold slightly greased with 
steamed rice. Fill the center with 
2 cups of cold, finely chopped meat 
highly seasoned with salt, pepper, 
celery salt and onion juice. Then 
add 1 cup cracker crumbs, one t^f^ 
slightly beaten and enough hot water 
to moisten. Cover meat with rice, 
cover rice with buttered paper to 
keep out moisture while steaming 
and steam 45 minutes. Serve on a 
platter surrounded with tomato 
sauce. 

Fricasee of Chicken. 

Boil cut up fowl until tender. Re- 
move chicken and remove alj meat 
from bones. Season and boil liquor 
until it has been reduced enough to 
give good flavor. Thicken and pour 
over chicken. Fowls which are al- 
ways made tender by long cooking 
are frequently cooked this way. 

Baked Ham. 

Soak ham (whole or part of ham) 
several hours in cold water. Put on 
to cook in cold water, cook until ten- 
der. Remove from fire and Igt par- 
tially cool. Take ham out of water, 
remove outside skin, sprinkle with 



sugar and cracker crumbs, and stick 
with cloves one-half inch apart. 
Bake one hour in slow oven. 

Fricassee of Veal 

Take two pounds of sliced veal 
cut from loin and cover with boiling 
water. Add one small onion, two 
stalks of celery and a sliced carrot. 
Cook slowly until meat is tender. 
Remove meat, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dredge with flour and fry un- 
til brown in hot fat. Strain liquor 
(there should be about 2 cups), melt 
4 tablespoons butter, add 4 table- 
spoons flour and strained liquor. 
Bring to boiling point, season with 
salt and pepper and pour around 
meat. 

Salmon Croquettes 

2 cups cold flaked salmon 
1 cup thick white sauce 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 
Few grains of cayenne 
Salt 

Add sauce to salmon, then add sea- 
sonings. Shape, dip in crumbs, egg. 
crumbs again, fry in deep fat and 
drain. 

Fish and Macaroni. 

2 cups cold flaked fish 

3 tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons flour 

iy2 cups milk 
1 teaspoon salt 
Yi teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

2 hard boiled eggs 

3 cups cooked macaroni or spaghetti 
Y2 cup bread crumbs 

Melt butter, add flour, and stir in 
milk. Cook until thick, add salt, 
pepper, parsley and fish. Put a layer 
of macaroni in a greased baking 
dish, add layer of above sauce and 
sliced eggs. Repeat imtil dish is full. 
Spread bread crumbs on top, dot with 
butter and bake in moderate oven 
until brown — about 25 minutes. 

Com Beef Hash. 

Remove skin, gristle and part of 
fat from corn beef. To the chopped 
meat add equal quantity of cold boil- 



216 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



ed chopped potatoes. Season with 
salt and pepper, put into a hpt well 
greased frying pan, moisten with 
milk or cream, mix well, spread even- 
ly in pan, and put over a slow fire 
to brown underneath. Turn aod fold 
on hot platter. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

1 pint oysters 
4 tablespoon oyster liquor 
4 tablespoons cream 
3^ cup dry bread crumbs 

1 cup cracker crumbs 
Yi cup melted butter 

Salt, pepper 

Mix bread and cracker crumbs, stir 
in butter. Put a thin layer on bottom 
of shallow baking dish, cover with 
oysters, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, add ^ of oyster liquor and ^ of 
cream. Repeat and cover top with 
remaining crumbs. Bake thirt_v min- 
utes in hot oven. Never allow more 
than two layers of oysters for scal- 
loped oysters ; if three layers are 
used the middle layer will be under- 
done. 

Stuffed Beef Heart. 

Wash and clean out a beef heart. 
Stuff with a rather highly seasoned 
stuffing and sew up openings. Sprin- 
kle with salt and pepper. Roll m 
flour and brown in hot fat. Place 
in deep covered baking dish, cover 
it half with boiling water, and bake 
until tender, basting or turning fre- 
quently. It may be necessary to add 
more water. When heart is done 
remove it and thicken and season 
the liquor for gravy. 

Salmon Cutlets. 

2 cups hot boiled rice 
1 lb. canned salmon 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 beaten egg 

Remove skin and bones from sal- 
mon and separate into flakes. Mix 
salmon, rice, parsley, salt, lemon juice 
and egg together and spread out to 
cool. Shape into cutlets, dip in beat- 
en egg and then into bread crumbs, 



and fry in hot fat until brown or 
brown in hot oven. 
Scrambled Eggs and Dried Beef. 
Add small pieces of dried beef to 
eggs which are being scrambled. 
This adds a different flavor to 
scrambled eggs and makes them 
very palatable. 

Kidney Stew. 

Soak, pare and cvit in slices six 
young kidneys, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Melt two table- 
spoons of shortening in hot frying 
pan, put in kidneys and cook 5 min- 
utes. Dredge thoroughly with flour, 
and add ^ cup boiling water. Cook 
5 minutes, and add more salt and pep- 
per if needed. Lemon juice or 
onion juice can be added for flavor 
if desired. 

Ham Omelet. 

Add small pieces of ham to egg 
mixture just before starting to fr>' 
omelet. For a full discussion of 
omelets see a good cook book as 
Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 

Codfish Cakes. 

Freshen codfish and cook until 
tender. Remove all bones. To 1 cup 
of codfish add 2 cups cold mashed 
potatoes and 1 beaten egg, salt and 
pepper to taste. Make into cakes 
and fry in hot fat until brown. A 
little onion can be added if one likes 
the flavor. 

Scalloped Salmon. 

1 can salmon 

1 egg 

1 pint milk 

3 tablespoons flour 
V/i tablespoons butter 

Put the milk on stove in double 
boiler, keeping out H cup. Mix but- 
ter and flour to a smooth paste and 
add the egg well beaten, then the V2 
cup of cold milk. Mix well, then 
stir into the milk, flour, egg mixture 
which should be smooth and thick 
like gravy. Season with salt and 
pepper and set aside to cool. Butter 
a baking dish and fill with alternate 
layers of flaked salmon and the white 



317 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



sauce. The top layer should be of 
the white sauce. Sprinkle with 
cracker crumbs and bake Yi hour in 
moderate oven. 

VEGETABLES. 
Scalloped Potatoes. 

Pare and cut potatoes in about ^ 
inch slices and put in buttered cas- 
serole or baking dish. Sprinkle with 
salt, pepper, and dredge with flour 
and dot over with small pieces of 
butter. Repeat until dish is nearly 
full. Add hot milk until it may be 
seen through top layer, bake until 
potatoes are soft. 

In order to vary the flavor of scal- 
loped potatoes or corn a few slices 
of bacon or small pieces of ham can 
be put amongst potatoes or corn. 
Either of these additions add greatly 
to the palatability of these dishes. 

Italian Spaghetti.. 
Break about one quarter pound of 
spaghetti into 2 in. to 3 in. pieces 
and put into boiling, salted water. 
Cook until tender. Drain and pour 
a dash of cold water over it. Cut 
an onion into small pieces and fry 
in saucepan until done, then add a 
quart can of tomatoes, Yi teaspoon 
salt and Y^ teaspoon of paprika. Let 
cook slowly for about two hours. 
Reheat spaghetti in tomato rnixture 
and serve. 

Scalloped Corn. 

Y2. cup butter 
Ya cup flour 
Y2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 

1 pint fresh corn or drained canned 
corn 

1 cup bread crumbs 
1/4 cup hot milk 

Heat milk in double boiler, mix 
butter and flour together, and add 
hot water, stirring meanwhile. Then 
add the corn, the salt and sugar. 
Let come to boiling point and turn 
into baking dish. Cover top with 
bread crumbs and make 15-20 min- 
utes. 



Glazed Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash and peel 6 mediurn sized 
sweet potatoes. Cook 10 minutes in 
boiling water to which has been add- 
ed 1 teaspoon salt. Drain potatoes, 
cut into thick slices lengthwise and 
put into buttered pan or casserole. 
Make syrup by boiling 3 minutes 1 
cup sugar and Y2 cup water. Add 1 
tablespoon butter. Pour over pota- 
toes and bake uiitil tender. Baste 
several times. 

Lima Beans in Casserole. 

Soak 3 cups lima beans over night 
in cold water. Drain and put into 
casserole and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Cut a two inch cube of fat 
pork in small pieces and fry out and 
strain. To fat add one small onion 
thinly sliced and one-half cuo of 
diced carrots. Stir until vegetables 
are brown. Add to beans, dot over 
with 3 tablespoons butter and add 
milk to half the height of beans. 
Cover and cook in a slow oven until 
beans are soft. 

Scalloped Cabbage. 

Cook cabbage until tender, drain. 
For 1 quart of cooked calibage fol- 
low amounts for scalloped corn. 

Corn Souffle 
1 can corn 

1 tablespoon butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup milk 

1^ teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 
Pepper 

Melt butter, add flour, pour on 
gradually milk, bring to boiling 
point, add corn, seasonings, yolks 
of eggs well beaten, and lastly fold 
in whites of eggs beaten stiff. Turn 
into buttered dish and bake about 
30 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Fried Rice. 

Fry a finely chopped onion in bacon 
drippings until brown. Add as much 
cold boiled rice as is wanted and 
fry until thoroughly heated. 



218 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Boiled Cabbage With Dressing. 

Cook cabbage in salted, boiling 
water. Pour over it following dress- 
ing. 

2. egg yolks 

3 tablespoons sour cream 

2 tablespoons vinegar 

1 tablespoon sugar 

Cheese Souffle 

2 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons flour 
Yi cup milk 
Yi cup grated cheese 
Yi, teaspoon salt 
Few grains of cayenne 
Yolks of 3 eggs 
Whites of 2 eggs 

Melt butter, add flour, stir until 
well blended ; pour on graduallv Y2 
cup scalded milk. Then add cheese, 
salt and cayenne. Remove from fire, 
add well beaten yolks. Cool mix- 
ture and cut and fold in well beaten 
whites of eggs. Pour into buttered 
baking dish and bake 20 minutes in 
slow oven. Serve at once. 

Mexican Beans. 

1 can kidney beans 
Ya cup cream 
Y2 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons mustard 
Y2 teaspoon paprika 

Cook over asbestos 20 minutes. 

Potato Puff. 

2 cups mashed potatoes 

2 eggs (well beaten) 
Y2 cup milk 
Seasoning 

Beat well and bake in oven. 

Baked Stuffed Potatoes. 

When baked potatoes are done cut 
in half and remove contents of shell. 
Add milk, butter, salt and pepper 
(amounts depending on amount of 
potatoes used). Beat until light, re- 
fill shells and put in oven to brown. 

Scalloped Apples. 

1 quart sliced apples 
Ya cup butter 
Ya cup sugar 



?4 teaspoon grated nutmeg 
Y2 lemon grated, rind and juice 

2 cups bread crumbs 
Melt butter and stir into crumbs 

slightly with fork. Cover bottom of 
buttered baking dish with crumbs 
and spread over Y2 of apples ; sprin- 
kle with Y2 of the sugar, nutmeg 
and lemon juice and rind mixed to- 
gether; repeat, cover with remaining 
crumbs and bake 40 minutes in mod- 
erate oven. Cover at first to pre- 
vent crumbs browning too rapidly. 

Macaroni and Cheese 

13^ cups macaroni broken in small 
pieces 
1 cup grated cheese 

1 cup bread crumbs 

3 tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons flour 

2 cups milk 
1 teaspoon salt 

Cook macaroni in boiling salted 
water until tender, drain and pour 
over it a dash of cold water. Make 
a white sauce of the last four in- 
gredients and stir grated cheese in- 
to mixture. When cheese is melted 
pour the cheese sa,uce over the cook- 
ed macaroni and mix well. Turn 
into a baking dish and bake in a 
moderate oven until brown. For 
a change of flavor a small amount of 
peanut butter or dried beef can be 
substituted for cheese. 

Hash Brown Potatoes. 

To 2 cups of cold boiled potatoes 
finely chopped add salt and pepper 
to taste. Pour over potatoes Y2 cup 
of melted drippings. Mix potatoes 
thoroughly with fat, cook about three 
minutes, stirring constantly. Let 
stand to brown underneath. Fold 
as an omelet and serve on platter. 

Spinach with Hard Boiled Eggs 

Wash spinach thoroughly. Steam 
until cooked. If spinach isn't steam- 
ed, cook in as little water as possible. 
Season and put in serving dish. Gar- 
nish with hard boiled egg sliced thin. 

If one prefers, a little hot bacon fat 
can be poured over cooked spinach. 

219 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Fried Parsnips. 
Boil parsnips until tender, cut in 
slices and fry until brown. 

Rice Souffle 

2 cups scalded milk 
2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 
Pinch pepper 

3^2 cup stale, soft bread crumbs 

2 cups cooked rice 
Yolks of 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley 
Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiflf 

Make a white sauce of first five 
ingredients. Add bread crumbs, and 
cook ten mirtutes. Remove from fire, 
add rice, yolks of eggs and parsley, 
then fold in whites of eggs. Turn 
in buttered baking dish, bake 35 min- 
utes in slow oven. 

Stuffed Green Peppers. 

6 green peppers 

1 onion (finely chopped) 

2 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons bread crumbs 

4 tablespoons lean raw ham 
Salt and pepper 

H cup water 

Cut a slice from stem of each pop- 
per, remove seeds and parboil pep- 
pers fifteen minutes. Cook onion m 
fat three minutes, add ham and 
cook about one minute, then add 
water and bread crumbs. Cool mix- 
ture, sprinkle peppers with salt, fill 
with cooked mixture, cover with 
buttered bread crumbs and bake ten 
minutes. 

Creamed Brussel Sprouts 
and Celery. 
Remove wilted leaves from one 
quart Brussel sprouts and soak 
sprouts in cold water fifteen minutes. 
Drain and cook in boiling salted 
water twenty minutes or luitil ten- 
der. Drain again. Cut washed cel- 
ery in small pieces ; there should be 
one and one-half cups. Melt 3 table- 
spoons of butter, add celery, and 
cook two minutes, then add 3 table- 
spoons flour, and pour on gradually 



1^ cups of scalded milk. Bring to 
boiling point, add sprouts, season 
with salt and pepper, and serve as 
soon as sprouts are reheated. 
Potato Cakes. 

Take left-over potatoes, and to 2 
cups of mashed potatoes add 1 beat- 
en egg, Yi cup milk and salt and 
pepper, make into cakes and fry in 
drippings. 

Fried Egg Plant. 

Pare egg plant, cut in J^ inch 
slices. Let stand in cold salted water 
about 3 hours. Drain, let stand in 
cold water a few minutes and dip 
in flour to which has been added salt 
and pepper, and fry until crisp and 
brown. 

Rice and Cheese Croquettes. 

J^2 cup rice 
V2 cup boiling water 
1 cup scalded milk 
H teaspoon salt 
Yolks of 2 eggs 
1 tablespoon butter 
3 tablespoons grated cheese 

Wash rice, add to water with salt, 
cover and steam until rice has ab- 
sorbed water. Then add milk, stir 
lightly with fork, cover and steam 
until rice is soft. Remove from fire. 
Add cheese and stir slightlv luitil 
cheese is melted. Add egg yolks and 
fat. Put in shallow pan to cool. 
Shape in balls, roll in crumbs, dip in 
eggs, again in crumbs, and frv in 
deep fat. Drain and serve with to- 
mato sauce. 

Stuffed Egg Plant. 
Cook eggplant 15 minutes in salted 
water to cover. Cut a slice from top 
and with a spoon remove pulp. Chop 
pulp and add 1 cup soft stale bread 
crumbs. Fry out 3 slices of bacon 
and fry in bacon fat Yi tablespoon 
finely chopped onion until brown. 
Add to the chopped pulp and bread 
and season with salt and pepper, and 
if necessary moisten with a little 
water. Cook o minutes, cool slightly 
and add one beaten egg. Refill egg 
plant, cover with buttered crumbs 
and bake 25 minutes in hot oven. 



220 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Fried Tomatoes. 

Slice ripe tomatoes in "; inch 
slices ; dip in flour to which has been 
added salt and pepper and fry un- 
til brown. 

Rice and Cheese with Tomatoes. 

Follow directions for rice and 
cheese croquettes, but instead of 
making croquettes pour tomatoes 
over rice and heat in oven a few 
minutes, or make a tomato sauce and 
pour over rice and cheese as it is 
served. 

SALADS. 
Fruit Salad. 
1 cup diced apples 
1 cup diced oranges 
1 cup diced bananas 
Mix fruit and pour on a good 
salad dressing. Any number of 
fruits can be used in fruit salad, but 
these three are very popular because 
they are nearly always in season. 
Pineapple and grapefruit are very 
nice additions to this fruit salad. 

Boiled Salad Dressing — I. 

4 eggs 
f^ cup lemon juice 

1 teaspoon salt 

y2 cup butter or vegetable oil 

2 to 3 tablespoons water 
2 tablespoons sugar 

Break eggs into inner portion of 
double boiler, beat until blended but 
not foamy. Add lemon juice, water, 
salt and oil. Remove from fire and 
cool. If dressing should curdle place 
in pan of cold water and beat with 
an Q%^ beater. 

Boiled Salad Dressing — II, 

1 tablespoon flour 
1 tablespoon sugar 
1 teaspoon mustard 
Paprika and salt, J-^ teaspoon 

Mix dry ingredients and add Yz 
cup milk, 1 cup dilute vinegar and 2 
well beaten eggs. Cook in double 
boiler. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

1 egg yolk 

2 tablespoons vinegar 



V2 teaspoon mustard 

Y2 teaspoon salt 

'2 teaspoon powdered sugar 

Pinch paprika 

44 cup olive oil 

Mix dry ingredients, add yolk, beat 
together. Add little vinegar and 
beat, and little oil and beat vigor- 
ously. Gradually add more oil un- 
til all is added, beating vigorously. 
Oil should be very cold when dress- 
ing is to be made. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Slice a firm cabbage very thinly. 
Serve with boiled dressing or any 
other which the family prefers. This 
salad may be varied by adding a few 
chopped nut meats and served as 
cabbage and nut salad. A stalk of 
celery may be added and served as 
cabbage and celery salad. A few 
pickled beets can be mixed with the 
sliced cabbage and served as cabbage 
and beet salad. 

French Dressing. 

1 teaspoon salt 

H teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons vinegar 
6 tablespoons oil 

Mix together and shake before us- 
ing. 

Kidney Bean Salad. 

1 can kidney beans 
1 cup chopped celery 
Boiled salad dressing 

Cole Slaw 

Slice cabbage very thinly. Pour 
over it following dressing. 
Yi teaspoon salt 

1 egg 

Yi cup milk 

2 teaspoons butter 
Ya cup vinegar 

Y2 teaspoon mustard 

1 teaspoon sugar 

?4 teaspoon pepper 

Heat milk, add dry ingredients to 
egg. Then add milk to egg mixture. 
Cook to a custard. Add butter and 
vinegar and strain over shredded 
cabbage. Set away to cool. 



221 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Grapefruit and Celery Salad. 

Remove all flesh from grapefruit 
and cut in small pieces. To 1 cup 
of prepared grapefruit add 1 cup 
diced celery. Serve on lettuce leaves 
with salad dressing. 

Waldorf Salad. 

Mix equal quantities of finely cut 
apple and celery and moisten with 
boiled salad dressing. Serve on let- 
tuce leaves. 

Potato and Pea Salad 

1 cup boiled diced potatoes 
H cup peas 

Mix with French dressing and 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

Shrimp Salad. 
Remove shrimp from can, wash 
and let stand in ice water for few 
minutes, then drain. To two small 
cans of shrimp add two medium sized 
tomatoes cut in small pieces and om^ 
stalk of celery (diced). Moisten with 
desired salad dressing and serve on 
lettuce leaves. 

Banana and Nut Salad. 

Cut banana lengthwise and then in 
half. Put two pieces on lettuce leaf 
and pour over it boiled salad dress- 
ing. Sprinkle a few chopped nuts on 
top. 

Egg, Olive and Potato Salad. 

Follow recipe for potato salad, but 
cut up several olives and one or two 
hard boiled eggs. The number of 
each depends upon amount of salad 
made. 

Stuffed Egg Salad. 

Remove yolks of hard boiled eggs. 
Mix with boiled salad dressing. Cut 
up several olives and add to yolk 
and dressing mixture. Put back into 
whites and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Tomato and Egg Salad. 

Remove skin from firm ripe to- 
matoes. Cut hard boiled e'^'^s 
through center and remove yolks. 
Mix with salad dressing and fill 
w'hites again. Turn tomatoes bottom 
side up and stand refilled whites in 



place where part of core was re- 
moved. Serve on lettuce leaf with 
more salad dressing. This is a very 
pretty salad. 

Pear Salad. 

Put canned pears on lettuce leaves, 
pour over them a salad dressing. 
Sprinkle a little chopped celery or 
chopped nuts on top. 

Tuna Fish Salad. 

Remove fish from can, pick flakes 
apart. To 1 cup of fish add ^ cup 
of diced celery. Mix with boiled 
salad dressing. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. 

Deviled Egg Salad. 

4 hard boiled eggs 

1 teaspoon mustard 

1 tablespoon melted butter or oil 

1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 tablespoon cut parsley 

1 teaspoon salt 
Dash of cayenne pepper 

Cut hard boiled eggs into halves 
lengthwise and remove yolks. Pow- 
der the yolks with a fork, then 
add salt, pepper, mustard and 
vinegar mixed together. Add the 
butter or oil. Mix until smooth and 
fill into whites. Serve on a bed of 
lettuce. 

Apple and Raisin Salad. 
3 cups diced apples 
1 cup cut raisins 
% cup lemon juice 
Lettuce 

Wash and dry raisins, add lemon 
to chopped apples and mix with 
raisins. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
salad dressing. 

Lettuce and Onion Salad. 

Slice onions on lettuce leaves and 
serve with French or boiled salad 
dressing. 

Tomato Salad. 

Skin ripe tomatoes and place on 
lettuce leaves and serve with any 
desired salad dressing. Tomatoes 
may be served whole or sliced. 

When sliced tomatoes appear on 
the menus it is intended that a dish 
full be placed on the table rather 

222 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



than served to each person as is done 
when salad is mentioned. This is, 
however, an individual matter and if 
the housewife prefers to always 
serve them as salads she could take 
the liberty to do so or vice versa. 

Cottage Cheese aand Olive Salad. 

Chop a few olives and mix with 
cottage cheese. Arrange on lettuce 
leaves. Serve with French or boiled 
dressing. 

Pea and Carrot Salad. 

If peas and carrots are left over 
from a meal wash them free from 
white sauce. Arrange on lettuce leaf 
and serve with any desired dressing. 

Chicken Salad. 

Cut cold boiled fowl or remnants 
of roast chicken in Yi inch dice. To 
two cups add one and one-half cups 
of celery cut in small pieces. Moist- 
en with salad dressing and serve on 
lettuce leaves. 

Salmon Salad. 
Remove salmon from can. Take 
out the bones as far as possible. 
Serve with boiled salad dressing. 

Salmon and Orange Salad. 

To 2 cups of salmon salad add 1 
medium sized orange cut in small 
pieces. This makes a pleasant change 
from the regular salmon salad. 

Salad from Left Over Greens. 

Arrange left over greens on- plates 
and serve with French or boiled salad 
dressing. This can be garnished with 
hard boiled eggs. 

Date and Nut Salad. 

Wash and stone dates. Place an 
English walnut meat in center of 
each date. Arrange four or five 
dates on bed of crisp lettuce and 
serve with salad dressing. 

There are innumerable kinds of 
salads. Any left over meat, fruit, 
fish or vegetables which are in good 
condition can be used. Just mix 
with salad dressing and serve on let- 



tuce or other salad leaves. Strips of 
pimento often add to the appearance 
of a salad. 

HOT BREADS. 
Nut Bread— I. 

2 cups milk 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup flour 

3 cups graham flour 
1 cup nut meats 

Yz teaspoon salt 
Bake 1 hour. 

Nut Bread— II. 

1 ^%?. 

Y^ cup sugar 
1 cup milk 

1 cup nut meats 
3J^ cups flour 

4 teaspoons baking powder 
Ya teaspoon salt 

Let rise Y^ hour. Bake M hour in 
moderate oven. 

Apple Fritters. 

V/i cup flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Ya teaspoon salt 
Yz cup milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk and 
f^^^ well beaten. Slice apples into 
batter and drop by spoonsful into 
deep fat. Serve with sauce. 

Banana Fritters. 

1 cup flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon powdered sugar 
Ya teaspoon salt 
Ya cup milk 

1 egg 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

3 bananas 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. 
Beat eggs until light, add milk, and 
combine mixtures, then add lemon 
juice and banana forced through 
sieve. Drop by spoonfuls into deep 
fat, fry until a golden brown, and 
drain. For general rules for testing 
fat for frying see the Boston Cook- 
ing School Cook Book. 



223 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Lemon Sauce for Fritters. 
Ys cup butter 
1 cup sugar 
Yolks of 3 eggs 
1/3 cup boiling water 

3 tablespoons lemon juice 
Few gratings lemon rind 

Cream butter, add sugar and yolks 
of eggs slightly beaten. Then add 
water and cook oyer boiling water 
until mixture thickens. Cool and add 
lemon juice and rind. 

Sauce for Fritters — I. 

^ cup brown sugar 

1 cup water 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 
Boil 5 minutes, cool. Add 

1 tablespoon butter 
y2 tablespoon yinegar 

1 teaspoon yanilla 

Sauce for Fritters — II. 

^ cup butter 
1 cup light brown sugar 

4 tablespoons milk 
1 teaspoon yanilla 

Cook to syrup 

Sauce for Fritters — III. 

14 cup sugar 
1 cup water 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 

2 tablespoons butter 
1^ teaspoon lemon juice 
Pinch salt 

Mix sugar, cornstarch and water. 
Boil 5 minutes, add butter and lemon 
juice. Stand in double boiler till 
ready to serye. 

Waffles. 

1^ cups flour 

3 teaspoons baking powder 
14 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 
Yolks 2 eggs 
Whites 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon melted butter 
Mix and sift dry ingredients, add 
milk gradually, yolks of eggs well 
beaten, butter and whites of eg^s 
beaten stiff. Cook on a greased hot 
waffle iron. 



Boston. Brown Bread. 

1 cup rye fiour 
1 cup cornmeal 
1 cup graham flour 
ji teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 
^/4 cup molasses 

2 cups sour milk or 
1^ cups sweet milk 

Add raisins if desired. Steam 3^2 
hours. Mould should not be fdled 
more than }i full. 

Cheese Straws. 

4 tablespoons finely grated 

cheese 
2 tablespoons butter 
4 tablespoons flour 

Salt and pepper to taste 
1 egg 

1 tablespoon milk 
Mix together and roll out the thin 
paste. Cut in narrow strips. Bake 
a light brown in a quick oven. 

Doughnuts. 

1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup milk 

2 eggs 

% teaspoon salt 
% teaspoon nutmeg 
4 cups flour 

4 teaspoons baking powder 

Roll out and cut. Care should be 
taken that grease is not too hot. 
Put a small piece of raw potato in 
grease and if it turns a nice brown 
in 40 seconds grease is all right to 
use. 

White Muffins. 

2% cups flour 

5 teaspoons baking powder 
Y cup sugar 

5 tablespoons melted 
shortening 
1% cups milk 

3 eggs 
Pinch salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add 
milk and egg yolks and shortening. 
Fold in beaten whites. Bake in muf- 
fin pans. 



224 



WHAT SHALL WE HxWE FOR DINNER? 



Graham Muffins. 

1 cup graham flour 
1 cup white flour 
Yi cup sugar 

4 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 cup milk 

1 egg 

2 tablespoons melted 
shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add 
milk gradually, egg well beaten and 
shortening. Bake in muflfin pans. 

Commeal Muffins. 

2 eggs 

^ cup butter; ^ cup sugar, creamed 
together 

1 cup cornmeal 

2 cups flour 

Yi teaspoon salt 
4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk 

Proceed as for other muffins. 

Popovers. 

2 eggs 

1 cup flour 

1 cup milk 
Pinch salt 

Beat all together until smooth bat- 
ter is formed. Pour into hissing hot 
gem pans or buttered earthen cups. 
Bake about 30 minutes in hot oven. 

Cheese Crackers. 

Put a little grated cheese on salt- 
ines. Melt and brown in oven. These 
are a nice addition to most salads. 

Combread. 

1 cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
Ya, cup sugar 

Y2 cup flour 
1^ cups cornmeal 
2 tablespoons shortening 
Beat all together, then add 1 egg 
well beaten. 

Ginger-Bread. 

Y2 cup sugar 
1 cup shortening 
1 cup molasses 



2 teaspoons soda 

3 cups flour 
1 egg 

1 cup boiling water 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon ginger 
1 teaspoon cloves 
Bake in moderate oven. 

RELISHES, PRESERVES, ETC. 
Carrot Marmalade. 

4 lbs. carrots 
3 lbs. sugar 

1 lemon, juice and 

grated rind 
1 orange 
Wash, scrape and steam carrots 
until soft. Chop fine and mix with 
fruit and sugar. Cook gently one 
hour or until mixture is rather thick 
when tried on cold dish. Seal in 
tumblers. 

Grape Conserve. 

1 small basket grapes 
Y2 lb. English walnut meats 

1 lb. raisins 
Pulp grapes and cook pulp. Put 
through a sieve. Mix and add 1 
cup sugar to each cup of grapes. 
Cook 15 minutes after they bejjin to 
boil well. Wash and cut up raisins, 
but do not chop. Cut walnut meats 
into small pieces and add nuts and 
raisins to grape pulp. Put directly 
in jars. 

Rhubarb and Pineapple Conserve. 

Mix 1 quart peeled, sliced rhubarb 
with one large pineapple also peeled 
and cut into small pieces. Cover 
with 2 quarts of sugar, stir thor- 
oughly and let stand over night. In 
morning add juice and rind of one 
lemon, and pulp of 2 oranges, all 
seeds being carefully removed. Cook 
rapidly for Y2 hour, stirring to pre- 
vent burning. Add V^ cup chopped 
blanched almonds. Cook 10 minutes 
longer. Turn into jelly glasses and 
seal. The nuts can be omitted. 



225 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Orange Marmalade. 

6 oranges 

1 lemon 

Wash fruit first. Cut fruit in 
quarters, discard seeds and_ slice 
through pulp as thinly as possible or 
put fruit through a meat chopper. 
Weigh the prepared fruit, and to 
each pound add three pints of cold 
water. Let stand about 2 hours. Put 
in preserving kettle and boil "^ently 
until rind is quite tender. Measure 
material and to each pint add one 
pint of sugar. Let cook until mix- 
ture thickens slightly when tried on 
a cold dish. Put in tumblers an'l 
cover with paraffin. This can be 
varied by using different fruits. 

Plum Conserve. 
Yz peck plums 

2 lbs. sugar 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

2 oranges, juice and grated rind 
Yz lb. English walnut meats 

Cook plums in as small amount of 
water as possible until soft. Rub 
through a sieve. Add sugar and 
fruit and let cook slowly for about 
1 hour or until quite thick. When 
about done add washed walnut meats. 
Fill jelly glasses with mixture and 
cover with paraffin. 

Rhubarb Conserve. 

4 lbs. rhubarb 

5 lbs. sugar 

1 lb. seeded raisins 

1 lemon 

2 oranges 

Wash and peel rhubarb and cut in 
one inch pieces. Put in kettle, spin- 
kle with sugar, add raisins and 
grated rind and juice of lemon and 
oranges. Mix, cover and let stand 
one-half hour. Put on fire, bring 
to boiling point and let simmer 45 
minutes, stirring almost constantly. 
Fill jelly glasses and seal. 
Pop Com Balls. 

1 cup light brown sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 

3 tablespoons water 

Boil until thick and pour over 2 
quarts of popped corn. Let cool and 
form into balls. 



Cherry Jam. 

Wash and pit cherries. To each 
cup of cherries add Yi cup of sugar, 
add little water and let boil down 
until quite thick. If a very sweet 
jam is desired add more sugar. 

Pepper Relish. 

6 large green peppers 

(no seeds) 
1 red pepper 
1 medium size cabbage 
34 cup salt 

1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons mustard seed 

Chop peppers and cabbage, add 
rest of ingredients and cover with 
vinegar. Put away in glass or stone 
jars. 

Com Relish. 
18 ears of corn (cut off) 
1 small cabbage run through 
meat chopper 

1 bunch celery 
4 onions 

2 green peppers 
chopped 

Pour over mixture 1 quart of vine- 
gar. Mix together. 
2 cups sugar 
1 cup flour 
Yi cup salt 
1 teaspoon mustard 
Y\ teaspoon cayenne 
Y2 teaspoon tumeric 

Add 1 quart vinegar slowly. Com- 
bine two mixtures and let boil about 
40 minutes. Fill jars and seal. 
Chow-Chow. 
1 quart small cucumbers 
1 quart large cucumbers 
1 quart small green tomatoes 
1 quart small button onions 
1 large cauliflower 
4 green peppers (cut fine) 
Cut all in pieces 

Make brine of 4 quarts of water 
and 1 pint salt. Pour over vegeta- 
bles and let stand 24 hours. Then 
heat enough to scald and drain in 
colander. Mix 1 cup flour, 6 table- 
spoons ground mustard, 1 tablespoon 
tumeric powder with cold vinegar to 
make smooth paste. Then add 1 
cup light brown sugar and enough 



226 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



vinegar to make 2 quarts in all. Boil 
until it thickens, stirring all the time. 
Add the vegetables and cook until 
heated through. This makes about 
5 quarts and can be kept in Mason 
jars. 

Chili Sauce. 

1/2 bushel ripe tomatoes I chopped 
1 dozen medium onions \ 
4 red peppers, cut finely 

1 pound of light brown sugar 

2 tablespoons salt 
2 cups vinegar 

2 tablespoons ground cinnamon 
1 teaspoon ground mace 
1 teaspoon ground cloves 
Cook until tender, about 5 hours 

Tomato Relish, 

1 peck ripe tomatoes chopped 
and drained 

2 cups chopped celery 
6 large onions chopped 

6 red peppers chopped — seeds out 

2 pounds light brown sugar 
Y2 cup salt 

2 tablespoons cinnamon 

2 oz. mustard seed 

1 quart vinegar 
Mix all together and put into bot- 
tles (no cooking). 

BEVERAGES. 
Chocolate. 

Melt Yi pound chocolate in double 
boiler, add V/2 cup sugar, and about 1 
cup water. Cook until mixture forms 
a thick syrup. Pour into a jar for fu- 
ture use. When you want to make 
chocolate heat the milk and to each 
pint of milk add 2 teaspoons of 
above mixture. It is very easily 
and quickly prepared. The amount 
of water and sugar to be added to 
the melted chocolate varies a little 
with the brand of chocolate used. 
The amount of sugar also depends 
upon individual tastes. 

Cocoa is cheaper than chocolate, 
so we have included it in the menus 
as one of the breakfast drinks. We 
feel, however, that chocolate made 
according to the above rule is much 



easier to prepare than cocoa, but this 
is an individual matter which a 
housewife must decide for herself. 

Pineapple Lemonade. 

1 cup sugar 

2 cups water 
Boil 10 minutes. 

1 cup grated pineapple 
Juice of 3 lemons 

Strain and add 5 cups of ice water. 

DESSERTS. 
Date Pudding — I. 

iH cups flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 tablespoons sugar 
2 tablespoons butter 

1 egg 
Ya, cup milk 

1 cup dates 

1 cup nut meats 

Bake in sheet about 20 minutes. 
Serve with whipped cream, foamy 
sauce or lemon cream sauce. 

Date Pudding— II. 

1 cup sugar 

2 eggs (beaten light) 
1 tablespoon flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup walnut meats 

1 cup dates cut fine 
Bake slowly in a sheet 20 minutes. 
Serve with whipped cream or pud- 
ding sauce. 

Foamy Sauce. 
1 egg 

1 cup sugar 
Beat to a cream 
1 cup milk 
1 teaspoon butter 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
Let stand in double boiler over 
hot water Y2 hour. Stir frequently. 

Creamy Sauce. 

Y2 cup butter 

Yi. cup powdered sugar 

Ya cup cream 

When beaten together stir in dou- 
ble boiler until melted. Do not boil. 



227 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Lemon Cream Sauce. 

Yi cup butter (creamed) 
Add iYa cups powdered sugar 
Grate rind of 1 lemon 
4 tablespoons lemon juice. 
Beat 5 minutes and add little nut- 
meg. Just before serving put over 
boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes. 

Apple Tapioca. 

^ cup pearl or minute tapioca 

cold water 
2J^ cups boiling water 
H teaspoon salt 
7 sour apples 
Yi. cup sugar 

Soak tapioca one hour in cold wa- 
ter to cover, drain. Add boiling 
water and salt, cook in double boiler 
until transparent. Arrange cored 
and pared apples in buttered pudding 
dish. Pour sugar on apples, pour 
over tapioca, and bake in moderate 
oven until apples are soft. Serve 
with vanilla sauce or cream. Minute 
tapioca requires no soaking. 

Spanish Cream. 

3 tablespoons gelatine 
1 quart milk (boiling) 

4 eggs 

4 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Dissolve gelatine in boiling milk — 
cool slightly. Add yolks of eg-gs and 
sugar well beaten together. Stir 
until it thickens. Remove from fire, 
add whites stiffly beaten and vanilla. 
Pour into wet molds. Turn out when 
firm and serve with cream. 

Huckleberry Roll. 

1 quart flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon salt 

Mix enough shortening to flour to 
make a rich dough, roll out thin and 
put on berries and sprinkle with 
sugar and a little nutmeg. Roll up 
like a jelly roll and bake in moder- 
ate oven. Serve with vanilla or 
foamy sauce. This can be made with 
any kind of berries. 



Cornstarch Pudding. 
4 cups scalded milk 
Y2 cup cornstarch 
Ya cup sugar 
54 teaspoon salt 
Yi cup cold milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt, add 
Y2 cup cold milk. Add to scalded 
milk, stirring constantly until mix- 
ture thickens. Afterwards cook 15 
minutes. Pour into moulds to cool. 
Crush the fresh fruit, add enough 
sugar to sweeten and just before 
serving add cream. Turn cornstarch 
pudding out in dish and pour fruit 
mixture over it. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

3 cups flour 
Yz cup butter 

2 cups sugar 

1 cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

3 eggs 

1 grated cocoanut 
Cream the butter and sugar, then 
add the well beaten eggs. Stir in 
the milk, and add the flour with the 
baking powder. Fold in the grated 
cocoanut. Bake in deep tin. 

Bread Pudding. 

1 pint bread crumbs 
l/<2 cups sugar 

1 quart of sweet milk 

4 eggs 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

2 tablespoons butter 

Raisins can be added if desired. 

Soak crumbs in milk, add 1 cup 
of sugar and beaten yolks of eggs, 
and grated rind of lemon. Bake in 
moderate oven until set. Let cool. 
Beat whites of eggs to stiff froth, 
adding Y^ cup of sugar and juice of - 
lemon. Spread a layer of tart ielly 
over top of pudding and add the 
meringue. Place in oven to brown. 
Serve with cream. 

Sliced Oranges and Shredded 
Cocoanut. 

Peel and slice oranges and sprin- 
kle with dry shredded cocoanut. 



228 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Lemon Sherbet. 

2 cups sugar 

4 cups water 

2 egg whites 
54 cup lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water about 10 
minutes. Cool. Add lemon juice to 
syrup and then add beaten egg 
whites. Freeze. 

For plain apricot or peach sherbet 
follow recipe for lemon sherbet, but 
substitute 1^ cups of apricot or 
peach pulp (made by cookincr apri- 
cots or peaches and putting thjough 
a sieve, or use canned peaches or 
apricots). A richer apricot sherbet 
can be made as follows : 

1 quart can of apricots 
4 oranges 

2 lemons 

3 egg whites 

15^ quarts of water 

1 cup sugar 

2 cups cream 

Press .oranges, apricots and lemons 
through a sieve. Boil sugar and wa- 
ter 10 minutes, cool and add fruit 
pulp, cream and beaten egg whites. 
Freeze. 

Baked Bananas. 

Remove skins from 6 bananas and 
cut in halves, lengthwise, and put in 
a shallow granite pan. Mix 2 table- 
spoons melted butter, Yz cup sugar, 
and 2 tablespoons lemon juice. Baste 
bananas with Yi the mixture. Bake 
20 minutes in slow oven, bastinsr dur- 
ing baking with remaining rnixture. 

Creamed Rice with Dates. 

4 cups milk 
H cup rice 

H teaspoon salt 
l/3 cup sugar 
1 cup dates 

Wash rice, mix ingredients and 
pour into buttered pudding dish. 
Bake 3 hours in a slow oven, stirring 
3 or 4 times during first hour to 
prevent rice from settling. Raisins 
can be used in place of dates, or 
no fruit at all need be added. This 
is also called rice pudding. 



French Toast. 

Dip dry bread in following mix- 
ture and fry until brown. Serve with 
syrup. 

3 eggs (well beaten) 

1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 

J4 teaspoon pepper 

Chocolate Souffle 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 

^ cup milk 

V/i squares of chocolate 

1/3 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons hot water 

3 eggs 

y2 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt butter; add flour, and pour 
on gradually the milk. Cook until 
boiling point is reached. Melt choco- 
late in saucepan placed over hot wa- 
ter, add sugar and water, and stir 
until smooth. Combine mixtures and 
add yolks of eggs well beaten — cool. 
F^old in white of eggs beaten stiff 
and add vanilla. Turn into buttered 
baking dish and bake in moderate 
oven about 2.5 minutes. Serve with 
foamy sauce. 

Pineapple Whip. 

1 cup grated pineapple 
Beaten whites of 5 eggs 
(sweetened) 

Beat together until light and fluffy. 
Serve cold with or without a sauce. 

Prune Whip like Pineapple Whip 
but substitute 1 cup prune pulp for 
pineapple. 

Apricot Whip like Pineapple Whip, 
but substitute 1 cup apricot pulp for 
pineapple. 

Pineapple Sponge, 

1 cup tapioca, soaked over 
night — pour off water 
Juice of a small can of 

pineapple 
Juice of 2 lemons 
1 cup water 

Cook tapioca until clear, add lYz 
cups sugar. Let boil and then re- 
move from stove. Add beaten whites 



529 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



of 3 eggs and pineapple cut in small 
pieces and fruit juices, beat well, 
serve cold. Some kinds of tapioca 
do not require soaking over night. 

Sponge Cake. 

4 eggs 

1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
Flour to make 1 cup 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
^2 teaspoon salt 

Separate eggs, add 3 tablespoons 
water to yolks, and beat well. Add 
sugar and then remaining dry in- 
gredients. Fold beaten whites into 
above mixture. Put in angel food 
tin and put into cold oven and then 
bake very slowly. 

Devil's Food Cake. 

V/2 square chocolate melted 

2 tablespoons butter melted 
1 cup sugar 

1 egg 

1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon soda 
Pinch salt 
1^ cup flour 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Mix all together. Beat with Dover 
egg beater. 

Frosting. 

1 sq. chocolate, melted 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 egg 
Powdered sugar to thicken 

Chocolate Custard. 

4 cups milk 

5 eggs 

^2 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
% cup sugar 

2 squares chocolate 
'^ cup water 

Melt chocolate, add sugar and wa- 
ter, and cook until syrup is formed. 
Pour into milk and add eggs and 
flavoring. Pour into buttered bak- 
ing dish and bake as custard. 

Chocolate pudding differs from 
chocolate custard in that the pudding 
requires less eges, and flour or corn- 
starch is the thickening agent. The 



pudding is cooked until thick on top 
of the stove and poured into molds 
to cool. This is also called Choco- 
late Blanc Mange. 

Caramel Pie. 

1 cup damson preserves 
1 cup sugar 
^4 cup butter 
4 eggs 
1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook all together and pour into 
baked pie crust. This is enough for 
2 pies. Other preserves such as plum 
or peach can be substituted for dam- 
sons. 

.Custard Pie. 

2 eggs 

3 tablespoons sugar 
% teaspoon salt 

V/i cups milk 

Few gratings of nutmeg 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar, salt 
and milk. Line plate with pie paste. 
Strain in the mixture and sprinkle 
with few gratings of nutmeg. Bake 
in moderate oven. 

Banana Custard. 

Arrange alternate layers of stale 
cake and sliced bananas in cuns, and 
pour over boiled custard. Replace 
bananas by oranges and it is called 
orange custard. The cake can be 
omitted if not on hand. Almost any 
kind of fruit can be used, or cocoa- 
nut. 

Boiled Custard 
3 cups scalded milk 
Yolks of 3 eggs 
% cup sugar 
% teaspoon salt 
H teaspoon vanilla 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and 
salt; stir constantly while adding 
gradually hot milk. Cook in double 
boiler, continue stirring until mixture 
thickens and a coating is formed on 
spoon. Strain immediately, chill and 
flavor. If cooked too long custard 
will curdle. Should this happen by 
usirtg a Dover egg beater it may be 
restored to a smooth consistency, 
but custard will not be as thick. 



230 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Chocolate Bread Pudding. 

2 cups dry crumbs 

1 qt. milk 

2 squares chocolate (melted) 
Yt, cup sugar 

3 eggs 

J4 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix all together and add melted 
chocolate. Bake in moderate oven. 

Baked Apples. 

Fill centers of apples after core is 
removed with raisins or dates. Allow 
Y^ cup of sugar and % teaspoon cin- 
namon for 6 apples. Cover bottom 
of dish with water. Baste apples 
while cooking. Raisins or dates can 
be omitted if one so desires. 

Chocolate Pie. 

2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 

3 tablespoons chocolate (melted) 
2 egg yolks 

1 cup sugar 

Cook as for pudding. Put in baked 
crust. Use whites for meringue. 
Brown in oven. 

Banana Cream Pie. 

2 cups milk 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 
i/^ cup sugar 

3 egg yolks 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook in double boiler until quite 
thick. Slice bananas in baked pie 
crust. Pour custard over them. 
Cover with meringue made from 
whites. Brown in oven. 

Tapioca Custard. 

5 tablespoons tapioca 

4 cups milk 
Yi cup sugar 

3 eggs 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Cook tapioca and milk until tapioca 
is soft and transparent. Beat eggs, 
add sugar to them. Pour tapioca- 
milk mixture into eggs and sugar. 



Add lemon extract and turn into 
baking dish and bake until set. 

Caramel Custard. 

4 cups scalded milk 

5 eggs 

Y2 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Y2 cup sugar 

Put sugar into pan, and stir con- 
stantly until melted to light brown 
color. Add gradually to milk, be- 
ing careful that milk doesn't bubble 
over, as is liable on account of high 
temperature of sugar. When sugar 
is melted in milk add mixture gradu- 
ally to beaten eggs. Add salt and 
flavoring, and strain into buttered 
baking dish. Place dish in pan of 
hot water and bake as custard. 

Chocolate Sauce. 

1 square chocolate 

1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 

^2 cup boiling water 
Y2 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt chocolate, add butter, pour on 
gradually water. Bring to boiling 
point, add sugar. Let boil 10 min- 
utes. Cool slightly. Add vanilla. 

Cottage Pudding. 

54 cup sugar 

1 ^ZS 

4 tablespoons melted butter 

1 cup milk 

Y^ teaspoon salt 
2Y2 cups flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix together in order given, or 
put all together and beat with a 
Dover egg beater. Bake in sheet or 
as cup cakes. Serve with a sauce. 

Chocolate Steam Pudding. 

1 egg 

1 cup sugar 

1 cup milk 

2 cups flour 

3 teaspoons baking powder 
% teaspoon salt 

2 oz. chocolate 

Melt chocolate over hot water. 
Beat tgg, add it to milk; sift flour. 



231 



THE AMERICAN UOME DIET, OR 



bakinjr powder and salt together, add 
to milk-egg mixture gradually. Add 
chocolate last. Steam in buttered 
molds 2 hours. (This is a very stiff 
mixture.) Serve with creamy, 
foamy or hard sauce. 

Washington Cream Pie 
1 cup sugar 
5 eggs 

VA cups water 
1 cup flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
This makes enough for two thin 
layers. Put together with vanilla 
custard. Put white frosting on top, 
and when white frosting has cooled 
cover top with melted bitter choco- 
late. 

Vanilla Custard. 

1 cup milk 

2J'2 tablespoons cornstarch 
Pinch of salt 

2 tablespoons sugar 
1 egg yolk 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Cook in double boiler until like 
soft custard. 

Cherry Pudding. 

1 tablespoon sugar 
'4 cup butter 
^ cup milk 

1 egg 
iH cups flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

J^ cup cherries — juice drained off 

Put into buttered molds, steam 3 
hours. For sauce add small amount 
of sugar to cherry juice, then thicken, 
cook until clear. (Don't make too 
thin.) 

Lemon Pie. 

Alake crust for 2 pies. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

Filling for 2 Pies 

Yolks of 5 eggs 

2 lemons — rind and juice 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 
V/i cups sugar 

About 1 quart of water. 

Stir almost constantly until thick. 



Use the 5 egg whites and 1 cup of 
powdered sugar for meringue. 

If only 1 pie is to be made just 
take as nearly one-half the recipe as 
possible. 

Apricot Fluff, 
VA pounds dried apricots 
2 egg whites 
Wash apricots and let stand in 
water about 12 hours or until soft. 
Piit through colander, and to 3 cups 
of pulp add ' J cup of sugar. Beat 
egg whites stiff and fold into anricot 
pulp. 

Custard Sauce 
2 cups milk 
2 eggs 

A cup sugar 
A teaspoon vanilla 
1 tablespoon butter 
Let stand in double boiler 1 hour. 
Do not boil. Stir f; equently. 

Brown Betty. 

Line buttered baking dish with 
bread crimibs. Put apples, prepared 
as for sauce, in center. Sprinkle 
with nutmeg. Bake in oven until 
apples are soft. Serve with hard 
sauce or foamy sauce. 

Hard Sauce. 

Vi cup butter 
^ cup powdered sugar 
Yi teaspoon lemon 
-/\ teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually. 
also flavoring. 

Lemon Sauce. 

1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 lemon (juice) 
Grated rind 
Little nutmeg 

Beat well, add lA cups water, let 
come to boil and serve. 

Vanilla Sauce. 
lA cup brown sugar 
34 cup water 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add 
water. Boil 5 minutes. Cool and add 
2 teaspoons vanilla. 



232 



WHAT sjiy\jj. wj': HAVI-: i-oi< dinner? 



English Plum Pudding 

2 cups flour 
1 cup bread crumbs 
1 cup brown sugar 
1 cup seeded raisins 

1 cup currents (Knglish) 

2 oz. candy peal cut fine 

3 well beaten eggs 
J4 teaspoon cinnamon 
% teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder 



^4 teasooon baking; soda 

'/i pound beef suet chopped fine 

Mix all together dry, add enough 
milk to make a very stiff inixturc 
Tie in a cloth and put in boiling 
water. Keep covered and boil for 
four hours. The longer it is boiled 
the better. Serve with a good pud- 
ding sauce. 

This can be made abrjut two weeks 
before Christmas and then boiled an- 
other two hours before servin'' 



233 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



INDEX 



Aging, Early, on Increase 12, 31 

Appetite and Food Consumption 5 

Apples, Baked 231 

Apple Fritters 223 

Apple Tapioca 228 

Apples, Scalloped 219 

Apricot Fluff 232 

Apricot Sherbet 229 

Apricot Whip 229 

Asparagus 61 

Attractiveness of Food, Over 

Emphasis on 4 

Babies, Injury of. From Im- 
proper Feeding 29 

Baby's Bottle, Washing of 101 

Baby Should Be Nursed 28 

Baked Apples 231 

Baked Stuffed Potatoes 219 

Bananas 58 

Bananas, Baked 229 

Banana Cream Pie 231 

Banana Custard 230 

Banana Fritters 223 

Barley 53 

Beails, Dietary Properties of 53 

Beans, Mexican 219 

Beans, Na , y 54 

Beans, String 61 

Beef Birds 215 

Beef Heart, Stuffed 217 

Beets 56 

Beri-beri, A Deficiency Disease 32 

Bone Growth, Faulty 24 

Boston Brown Bread 224 

Botulism 90 

Bran in the Diet 46 

Bread, Corn 50 

Bread, Nut 223 

Bread Pudding 228 

Bread Pudding, Chocolate 231 

Bread, White 46-47 

Brown Betty 232 

Brown Rice 52 

Brussels Sprouts and Celery 220 

Buckwheat 53 

Butter 31, 33, 70 

Buttermilk 69 

Butter Substitutes 74 

Cabbage 5, 9, 61 

Cabbage, Chinese 60 



Cabbage, Scalloped 218 

Cabbage, with Dressing 219 

Cake, Devil's Food 230 

Cake, Sponge 230 

Calories, Importance of 4, 6 

Canned Foods 91, 92 

Candy 1O8 

Caramel Pie 230 

Carrot Marmalade 225 

Celery and Brussels Sprouts 220 

Cheese 70 

Cheese and Rice Croquettes 220 

Cheese Crackers 225 

Cheese Sauce 214 

Cheese Souffle 219 

Cheese Straws 224 

Cherry Jam 226 

Cherry Pudding 232 

Chicken, a la King 215 

Chicken, Fricassee of 216 

Child, the Unnaturally Fed 35 

Children, Instruction in Nutrition 8 

Children, Neglect of Nutrition of 30 

Chocolate 227 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 231 

Chocolate Custard 230 

Chocolate Souffle 229 

Chocolate Pie 231 

Chocolate Steam Pudding 231 

Chow Chow 226 

Chowder, Corn 213 

Chowder, Fish 214 

Chowder, Vegetable 214 

Cod Fish Cakes 217 

Conserve, Grape 225 

Conserve Relish 226 

Conserve, Rhubarb and Pineapple 225 

Coffee 76 

Constipation 35 

Cocoanut Cake 228 

Corn Beef Hash 216 

Corn Bread 225 

Corn Chowder 213 

Corn Meal 50 

Corn Meal Muffins 225 

Corn, Scalloped 318 

Corn Souffle 218 

Corn Starch Pudding 228 

Cottage Pudding 231 

Cows, Health of 83, 102 

Custard, Boiled 230 



234 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER? 



Custard, Caramel 231 

Custard Pie 230 

Custard, Tapioca 231 

Custard, Vanilla 232 

Dasheen 55 

Date Pudding 227 

Deficiency Diseases 22 

Desserts, Frozen 71 

Diet, Adults Should Promote 

Growth 7 

Diet, Carnivorous 25, 62 

Diet, of Eskimo 62 

Dietary Essentials 19 

Diet, Faulty, Effects of 28 

Diet, Oriental 61 

Diet, Meat, Bread and Potato 

Type of 39 

Diet, Systems of 33 

Diet, Spring, Effects of 14 

Diet, Restricted, Winter 14 

Diets Which Produce Scurvy... 20 

Diets Which Prevent Scurvy... 19 

Digestion, Contemplation of.... 38 

Diseases, Old Age 11 

Doughnuts 224 

Duck Stuffing 214 

Eating Habits in Children 29 

Eggs 74 

Eggs. Creamed 214 

Egg Plant, Fried 220 

Egg Plant, Stuffed 220 

Egg Sauce for Fish 215 

Egg Yolk 21, 74 

Energy Not Most Important 

Factor 6 

English Plum Pudding 233 

Esthetic Standards and Safety 

of Foods 96 

Eye Diseases from Malnutrition. 21 

Feeding Baby After Weaning. . . 103 

Fillers in Ice Cream 72 

Film on the Teeth 107 

Finnan Haddie 215 

Fish 78 

Fish, Chowder 214 

Fish and Macaroni 216 

Flour, Wheat 45 

Foamy Sauce 227 

Food, Attractiveness of 4 

Food, Consumption and Appetite 5 
Food, Decomposition, Bacterial. 37 

Food, Esthetic Standards of 96 

Food Factors Newly Appreciated 19 
Food, Infection of, by Handling 79 



Food Inspection 98 

Foods, Faulty 23 

Foods, Habits, Proper 40 

Foods, Hard, for the Teeth 105 

Foods, Infected 79 

Foods, Leafy 59, 60 

Food Poisoning 77, 80 

Foods, Protective ' 26, 44 

Foods, Raw 58, 59 

Foods, Right Combinations of.. 23 

Food, Selection of 42 

Foods, Simple 10 

Foreign Terms 9 

French Toast 229 

Fritters, Apple 223 

Fritters, Banana 223 

Fruit Juices Prevent Scurvy.... 19 
Fruits, Special Value of 57, 104 

Ginger Bread 225 

Goat as Foster Mother 101 

Graham Muffins • 225 

Grape Conserve 225 

Green Peppers, Stuffed 220 

Ham, Baked 216 

Hamburger Layer 215 

Ham Omelet 217 

Hash Brown Potatoes 219 

Hindus, Diet and Health of 41 

Huckleberry Roll 228 

Hygienic Conditions, Importance 

of 30 

Hygiene and Longevity 11 

Ice Cream 71 

Ice Cream Fillers 72 

Infant Feeding, "Unnatural".... 100 
Information, Sources of for 

Housewife 3 

Intestine. Activity of 34, 37 

Intoxication, Intestinal 34 

Italian Sphaghetti 218 

Kidney 63 

Kidney Stew 217 

Kidney Function and Old Age.. '40 

Lamb Croquettes 215 

Leaves, Mild Flavored 59 

Lemon Cream Sauce 228 

Lemon Sauce for Fritters 224 

Lemon Sherbet 229 

Lima Beans in Casserole 21" 

Liver 63 

Macaroni and Cheese 219 

Macaroni and Fish 216 

Malnutrition, Effects of, Slow 
in Appearing 43 

235 



THE AMERICAN HOME DIET, OR 



Marmalade, Carrot 

Marmalade, Orange 

Meat Loaf 

Meats Confer Palatability. 

Meats Deficient in Lime 

Meats, ;Excessive Consurription 
of (53, 

Meats, Nutritive Value of 

^eats, Putrefaction of, in In- 
testine 

Meats, Raw 

Meats, Stale, Danger of 

Meats, Small Servings of 

Medicine, Demand of for Spring 

Metchnikoff 

Menus, Faulty 

Mexican Beans 

Milling Processes, Modern 

Milk, Bacteria in 

Milk-born Diseases 

Milk, Canned 

Milk, Canned, for Infant Feeding 

Milk, Care of Baby's 

Milk, A Complete Food 

Milk, Condensed 

Milk, Evaporated 

Milk, in the Diet 

9, 16, 17, 27, 65, 

Milk, Fermented 

Milk, Grading of 

M,ilk, Gravy 

Milk, Low Grade, in Cookery... 

Milk, Pastcuri;iation of 

Milk Powders 

Milk, Raw 

Milk, Sour 66, 67, 

Milk, Stale 86, 

Mother, Diet of Nursing 

Muffins, Cornmeal 

Muffins, Graham 

Muffins, White 

Mushrooms 



225 

226 

215 

9 

65 

64 
17 

64 
93 
91 
9 
13 
66 
26 

219 
45 
87 
84 
88 

10:5 
96 
68 



88, 89 



69 

66 

97 

216 

87 

84 

90 

83 

86 

87 

100 

225 

225 

224 



Night-Blindness and Nutrition . . 22 

Nursing the Baby 100 

Nut Bread 223 

Nutrition, Faulty, Not New lU 

Nutrition, Instruction of Chil- 
dren in 8 

Nutrition, The Mother's Manage- 
ment of 3 

Nutritional Instability 24 

Nutrition, of the Unborn 99 

Old Age, Diseases of 11 

Oleomargarine 73 



Omelet, Ham 217 

Orange Juice for Babies 102 

Orange Marmalade 226 

Oranges, Sliced, and Cocoanut.. 228 

Over Eating 35 

Oysters, Scalloped 217 

Oyster Stew 213 

Parsnips, Fried 220 

Pasteurization of Milk 84 

Peas, Dietary Properties of 53 

Pellagra, Diet and 42 

Peristalsis, Reversed 37 

Pepper Relish 326 

Pie, Banana Cream 231 

Pie, Caramel 230 

Pie, Chocolate 231 

Pie, Custard 230 

Pie, Lemon 2".l 

Pie, Washington Cream 232 

Pineapple L-cmonade 227 

I ineai)rl- and Rhubarb Conserve 225 

Pineapple Sponge 229 

Pineapple Whip 229 

Plum Conserve 226 

Plum Pudding, English 233 

Popcorn Balls 226 

Popovers 225 

Potatoes 54 

Potatoes, Baked, Stuffed 219 

Potatoes, Cakes 220 

Potatoes, Glazed Sweet 218 

Potatoes, Hash Brown 219 

Potatoes Place in Diet 55, 57 

Potatoes, Scalloped 218 

Potato Puff 219 

Potatoes, Sweet 55 

Protective Foods 26 

Protein, Low, Diet 32 

Proteins, Quality in 18 

Prune Whip 229 

Pudding, Cherry 232 

Pudding, Cottage 231 

Putrefaction in Intestine.... 34 

Radish 56 

Raw Food Fad 93, 94 

Refrigerator 95 

Rhubarb 78 

Rhubarb Conserve 226 

Rhubarb and Pineapple Conserve 225 

Rice, Brown 52 

Rice and Cheese Croquettes 220 

Rice and Cheese with Tomatoes 221 

Rice, Creamed, with Dates 229 

Rice, Dietary Properties of 51 

236 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE EOR DINNER? 



Rice, Fried 218 

Rice and Meat in Casserole 216 

Rice, Polished 51, 52 

Rice Souffle 220 

Rickets 24 

Roots, Nutritive Value of 17, 55 

Rye 55 

Salads — 

Apple and Raisin 222 

Banana and Nut 222 

Cabbage 221 

Chicken 223 

Cole Slaw 221 

Cottage Cheese and Olives 223 

Date and Nut 223 

Devilled Egg 222 

Egg, Olive and Potato 222 

Fruit 221 

Grapefruit and Celery 222 

Kidney Bean 221 

Pea and Carrot 223 

Pear 222 

Potato and Pea 222 

Salmon and Orange 223 

Shrimp 222 

Stufifed Egg 222 

Tomato 222 

Tomato and Egg 222 

Tuna Fish 222 

Salad Dressings 221 

Salmon Croquettes 216 

Salmon Cutlets 217 

Salmon Loaf 214 

Salmon. Scalloped 217 

Salts, Mineral, Importance of... 18 

Sauce, Egg, for Fish 215 

Sauce for Fritters 224 

Sauce, Lemon 214 

Sauce for Salmon Loaf 214 

Sauce, Tomato 214 

Sauces for Puddings — 

Chocolate 231 

Creamy 227 

Custard 232 

Foamy 227 

Hard 232 

Lemon 232 

Lemon Cream . . .' 228 

Vanilla 232 

Sausage 82 

Scalloped Apples 219 

Scalloped Cabbage 218 

Scalloped Corn 218 

Scurvy 19, 89 



Scurvy, Prevented by Fresh 

Foods 19, 89 

Seeds, Nutritive Value of 17 

Service, Simplicity of 10 

Sherbet, Apricot 229 

Sherbet, Lemon 229 

Simplicity of Service 10 

Sleep for Baby 104 

Spaghetti, Italian 218 

Spanish Cream 228 

Spinach for Babies 103 

Spinach with Hard Boiled Egg.. 219 

Steak, Round, Stuffed 215 

Stomach, The Over-Fed 36 

Storage Tissues of Plants 57 

Stufifed Green Peppers 220 

Stuffing, Peanut, for Duck 214 

Stuffed Round Steak 215 

Sugar, Excessive Consumption 

of 75, 108 

Sweet Potatoes, Glazed 218 

Swiss Steak 215 

Tapeworm 93 

Tea 76 

Teeth, Diet and 106 

Tomatoes, Fried 221 

Tomato Prevents Scurvy 58 

Tomato Relish 227 

Tomato Sauce 214 

Tomatoes with Rice and Cheese. 221 

Trichina 93 

Tubers, Nutritive Value of 17 

Turnips 56 

Typhoid Carrier 81 

Typhoid, From Infected Foods.. 81 

Vanilla Custard 232 

Veal Birds •. 316 

Veal Cutlets in Casserole 216 

Veal, Fricassee of 316 

Vegetarianism 33 

Vegetable Chowder 214 

Vegetables, Fresh, Prevent 

Scurvy 19 

Vegetables, Green 17, 59, 105 

Waffles 224 

Water 82 

Welsh Rarebit 214 

Wheat, Dietary Properties of... 44 

Wheat Flour, Proteins of.... 47, 49 

Wheat Flour. Whole 49 

Wheat Kernel, Proteins of 46 

White Muffins 224 

Winter Diet, Restricted 11 

Xerophthalmia 21 

237 






r c , 






\p> 



