
Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924090141296 



MRS. WILSON'S NEW 
COOK BOOK 



(revised) 



By 
Mrs. W. H. (Betty Lyles) Wilson 



A COM PUETE 



Collection of Original Recipes 

and Useful Household 

Information 



ILLUSTRATED 



(FOURTH EDITION) 



FOSTER & PARKES COMPANY 

Nashville, Tennessee 

1920 






Copyrighted by 

Mrs. W. H. (Betty Lyles) Wilson 

1914 



This little book I dedicate to my daughter, Mary, who 
has inherited my love for the work. She began decorating 
cakes at the age of three and since that time has been able 
to make any flower without practice. 

In offering my recipes to the public I give unreservedly 
my highest and best knowledge of the art. 1 do not claim 
originality for all of the recipes. My friends will recognize 
their own contributions; but I can conscientiously recom- 
mend them, having thoroughly tested their merits. 

MRS. W. H. (BETTY LYLES) WILSON. 




MARY WILSON DECORATING A CAKE, 



Introductory Instructions. 



Mark Twain says : "We eat to live and not live to eat." 



The gospel of good cooking needs many evangelists. In 
the outset I want to tell you its foundation stone. It is 
this : to make real good things you must make them of real 
good things. 

Poor cooking can spoil the bfest material, but not even 
the best cooking can make things that are initially bad, 
good. 

It cannot redeem soured fruit, wilted vegetables, stringy 
blue meat, scrawny fowls nor milk and butter below grade. 
Neither can it freshen aged eggs, lighten clammy flour nor 
add one jot or tittle to third-rate flavoring. 

This ought to go without saying, but I find people hug- 
ging the idea that anything will do to cook, if you only 
know how. This is .the point of wisdom— to buy and cook 
only the best; not always the most expensive — sirloin and 
porterhouse steaks are always high, but the same prime 
animal that supplies these cuts supplies other less expen- 
sive cuts of a good quality for their grade — ^always be sure 
that whatever you get is the best. It is better to have good 
bread than poor cake — you can never make good cake out 
of stale eggs, inferior flour and bad butter; you can never 
make good biscuit or light rolls out of clammy flour--so 
you see the gospel of good buying precedes the gospel of 
good cooking. 

Econonly is a leading aim with me, therefore I warn all 
housekeepers against the extravagance of buying unfit 
things. 

There is another point: The wisest of us cannot im- 
prove on nature; the closer we keep to her actual flavors 
the better food we serve. Of course we can combine "flavors, 
thereby giving the species of variety. 

Dish gravy or pan gravy well served cannot be improved 
upon — this for roasts, of course. Broiled things — fish, mut- 
ton and so on — need sauces rich and smooth, and as you 

5 



love your kind, let them never taste of the rancid fat, the 
uncooked flour nor the milk that went into their making. 

The fat we use in booking should be one of the most im- 
portant considerations. 

DISH-WASHING. 

Collect all dishes, scraping and rinsing them well, and 
pile all of a kind together near the dishpan. 

Wipe the table to have a place to put clean dishes. 

Rinse cups and dishes that have held milk, egg and 
starchy foods in cold water before washing. 

Soak utensils used for sugary substances in hot water. 

Greasy dishes and those blackened should be wiped with 
clean paper. 

Have the dishpan half full of hot, soapy water; a rins- 
ing pan at the left of dishpan. 

Dish-towels and dish-cloths should be neatly hemmed, 
and after each using should be washed and hung in the air 
and sun to dry. 

Do not waste soap by leaving it in the water. 

Wash dishes in the following order : Glass, silver, cups, 
saucers, plates, larger dishes and platters; last, tin and 
cooking utensils. 

Steel knives, forks and pans should be scoured, rub- 
bing with a cork. 

The cogs of a Dover egg beater should not be put in 
water; wipe with a damp cloth. Wooden or bone handles 
of knives or forks should not be. put in water. 

Change dish water before it becomes cold or greasy. 

When all dishes are washed and wiped with clean hands, 
put them in their proper places. 

Wash the dishpan, soap dish and sink in hot, soapy 
water. 

Hot water poured down the drip pipe of ice box will 
keep it sweet. 

Cleaning Spinach. Adding a little salt to first water 
will remove grit. 

Salt. To keep it dry put shaker in covered jelly glass. 

A raw potato cut in half will take away the burnt taste 
of vegetables or soup. 

Spice in a tea ball for flavoring is much better than in 
a muslin bag. 

C 



HINTS TO THE HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Clean up the kitchen as you go along. Wash and dry 
all utensils as soon as you are through using them. The 
dishes that must be left, stack in a large enamel bucket, 
either in cold or warm water. The bucket takes up less 
room and dishes are better covered with water. 

Never put greasy spoons, knives or forks around on 
stove or table; have saucer to lay them in. 

All dough and egg dishes must be soaked in cold water, 
as hot water cooks the egg or flour on them. 

Save all the paper bags that come to you for putting 
over fruit jars. 

Light bread, cracker dust and biscuit for bread crumbs. 
Light bread is preferable. Let stand in warmer or oven 
until dry and grind. Keep in closed glass jars. 

Eggs for crumbing are beaten enough to mix yolks 
and whites well and add water or milk, two tablespoons of 
liquid to each egg. 

Larding is drawing small pieces of salt pork through 
the surface of lean meat. Trussing is shaping fowls for 
baking or boiling. 

Boning is freeing the flesh from the bone, leaving meat 
whole. 

Never add all the sugar to eggs at one time; it should 
be put in a little set a time. 

To whip cream, put pan over another pan filled with 
crushed ice. 

Always dip molds in ice water before putting in jelly. 

Orange peeling burned on stove for disagreeable odors. 

Kerosene will surely drive away ants. ' Brush around 
rollers of refrigerators and kitchen furniture with the 
kerosene. 

Save lemon rinds for boiling with cup-towels. It cleans 
and whitens them, also removes any discoloration from 
cooking vessels. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

Never take time to grate chocolate. Put the desired 
quantity in a granite or porcelain saucepan and set in a 
vessel of hot water until melted. 



To prevent eggs from breaking : When boiling eggs the 
white often comes through the shell and spoils the taste of 
the egg. This may be prevented if a tablespoon of salt is 
added to water before boiling. 

Removing stains from aluminum: Discolorations of 
aluminum utensils may be removed by using four table- 
spoons of oxalic acid crystals in a gallon of water, boiling 
.not more than five minutes. Before using, wash with clean 
hot water and soap. 

When cooking very sour fruit, such as cherries or cran- 
berries, if you add a little salt to each quart it will take 
only about half as much sugar. 

When cutting fresh bread, dip knife in hot water. 

If grease is spilled on kitchen floor, cold water should 
be poured on immediately. The water will harden grease 
and prevent it from soaking into floor. It may then be 
scraped up with knife. 

To prevent flies from entering a house, brush screen 
doors with kerosene. 

Sprinkle the cellar often with chloride of lime and it will 
be kept free from rats. 

Never keep bread and cake in same box, as the cake 
loses its flavor and tastes like bread. To keep cake fresh 
keep a small apple in cake box. 

To thicken sweet sauce mix flour or cornstarch with 
sugar dry to prevent lumping. 

FRENCH WORDS IN COOKING. 

Au gratin: Dishes prepared with sauce and crumbs and 
baked. 

Bisque: A white soup made of shell fish. 

To Blanch: To place any article on fire till it boils 
then plunge in cold water. To remove the skin by immers- 
ing in boiling water. 

Consomme: Clear soup or bouillon boiled down very 
rich. 

Croustades: Fried forms of bread to serve minces or 
other meats upon. 

Entree: A small dish usually served between the 
courses at dinner. 

8 



Fondant: Sugar boiled and beaten to a creamy paste. 

Ragout: A rich, brown stew with mushrooms and 
vegetables, etc. 

Rissole: Rich mince of meat or fish rolled in thin pas- 
try and fried. 

Roux : A cooked mixture of butter and flour for thick- 
ening soups and stews. 

Souffle: A very light, much whipped up pudding or 
omelet. 

Timbale: A sort of pie in a mold. 

To test fat, when it begins to smoke drop in slices of 
Irish potato; when it sinks it is not hot enough; when it 
does not sink at all but browns in a minute the fat is ready 
for crumbed articles, such as croquettes. It can be clarified 
with raw pieces of potato. Heat the fat gradually until 
the potato browns. 

Boiling is allowing the article to be cooked in water 
after it has reached the boiling point. 

Steaming is cooking by exposing the food to steam. 

Stewing is boiling the food in a small quantity of water. 

Baking is cooking food inside the oven. 

Broiling is quickly searing or browning the food before 
the cooking begins in order to shut in the juices. 

Fricaseeing is sauting food, then stewing. 

Sauting is frying in a small quantity of fat, cooking 
food on one side and then on the other. 

Frying is cooking food by immersing in hot fat. 

1 level teaspoon baking powder to 1 level cup of flour. 

1 level teaspoon cream of tartar to 1 cup of flour. 

1/2 teaspoon of soda to 1 cup of flour. 

1 teaspoon of soda to 1 cup of molasses. 

2 heaping tablespoons of cornstarch to 1 qt. of milk. 
114 oz. gelatin to 1 qt. of liquid. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

All measurements, level full. One egg weighs 2 ounces ; 
six whites, 6 ounces. 
2 cups lard make 1 pound. 
2 cups butter make 1 pound. 
4 cups pastry flour make 1 pound. 

9 



3% cups entire wheat flour make 1 pound. 
414 cups Graham flour make 1 pound. 
4 1-3 cups coffee make 1 pound. 
2 2-3 cups cornmeal make 1 pound. 
4 1-3 cups coee make 1 pound. 
- 2 cups granulated sugar make 1 pound. 
2 2-3 cups powdered sugar make 1 pound. 
3V^ cups confectioner's sugar make 1 pound. 
2 2-3 cups brown sugar make 1 pound. 
2 cups chopped meat make 1 pound. 
1% cups rice make 1 pound. 
2 cups rasins (packed) make 1 pound. 
214 cups currants make 1 pound. 
2 cups stale bread crumbs make 1 pound. 
8 large eggs make 1 pound. 

2 teaspoons butter make 1 ounce. 
4 teaspoons flour make 1 ounce. 

6 tablespoons baking powder make half ounce. 

3 teaspoons make one tablespoon. 
14 tablespoons liquid make 1 cup. 

16 tablespoons dry ingredients make 1 cup. 

» BOILED SUGARS FOR CONFECTIONS 

Eleven tests are considered for boiling: 

Small thread 215° F. 

Large thread 217° F. 

Pearl 220° F. 

Large pearl 222° F. 

The blow 230° F. 

The feather 232° F. 

Soft ball 238° F. 

Hard ball 248° F. 

Small crack 290° F. 

Crack 310° F. 

Caramel stage 350° F. 



10 



CEREALS. 



Add cereals slowly to boiling salted water. See that 
the water does not stop boiling. Boil 10 minutes to break 
the cellulose. Cook over hot water from 1 to 4 hours. 
Some require even longer. Fireless cooker is the best way 
to cook breakfast oats. If eaten with nuts, dates, figs, 
etc., cereals are masticated and the food value improved. 

OATMEAL AND CRACKED WHEAT. 

Have 3 cups water boiling. Pour into this slowly so as 
not to stop motion of water 1 cup oatmeal, 1 teaspoon salt. 
Cook for 15 minutes, and then put over steam and let cook 
slowly for 3 or 4 hours. 

For fireless cooker, put on .fire and while cooking heat 
stone, put in cooker and let remain all night. It will be 
delicious for breakfast. 

FARINA. 

1 cup farina. 4 cups liquid. 

Cook half hour. Serve with cream and sugar. 

CORNMEAL MU^H. 

4 cups boiling water. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup commeal. 

Boil 10 minutes, stirring constantly, then longer in 

double boiler. 

STEAMED RICE. 

2 cups boiling water. 1 cup rice. 
2 teaspoons salt. 

Pick and wash well. Put rice and water into vessel, 

cook until rice is soft, about one hour. 

HOMINY. 
Three cups liquid to one cup hominy. Cook slowly tor 
several hours. 

GRITS. 

Wash and pick carefully. 

2 cups grits. Salt to taste. 

3 cups water. 

Cook in boiling water for 1 hour. 

■\ 
11 



EGGS. 



BOILED EGGS. 

Boil 25 to 30 minutes. 

Hard cooked eggs. 

1 pt. boiling water to an egg. 

Put egg carefully in boiling water, cover and let stand 
on back of range 45 minutes. If soft cooked allow six 
minutes. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Break one egg at a time in a shallow sauce pan of hot 
salted water, allowing one teaspoonful of salt to a pint of 
water. Cook until the white is firm. Lift out carefully 
with skeleton spoon, sprinkle with pepper and salt and a 
bit of butter on each egg. Serve in warm platter. Eggs 
must be very fresh to poach nicely. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS NO. 1. 

Put two tablespoons butter in sauce pan. Break six 
eggs into a bowl. When butter has melted pour in the 
eggs. Stir from bottom and cook until eggs are creamy. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS NO. 2. 

Break 4 eggs into bowl, 1 spoon butter, i/^ cup rich milk 
or water, salt and pepper. Beat eggs, add liquid and sea- 
soning. Turn into hot saucepan with the butter melted. 
Stir until set. Serve on platter or on toast. Any chopped 
cold meat may be added to this before cooking, or served 
with it when ready for table. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Butter shirred egg dishes. Break one or two eggs in 
each dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Run in oven to 
cook. When nearly cooked put a small piece of butter on 
each egg. Serve in the dished in which they are cooked. 

M2 



SAUTED EGGS. 

Put tablespoon butter in sauce pan, when melted break 
one egg at a time. Don't let butter brown. If eggs are to 
be cooked on both sides turn with spatula and cook through. 
Nice to serve with boiled ham or bacon. If to be served 
this way cook meat first and keep on warm platter. Cook 
eggs in same pan in drippings from the meat. 

EGG NESTS. 

Have ready pretty rounds of buttered toast, one egg 
for each piece of toast. Separate eggs carefully, keeping 
yolks in shape and each in a small butter plate. Beat whites 
stiff with pinch of salt. Pile on bread to form nest, leav- 
ing a place in center for the yolks. Slide this into the nest 
of white. Season with a bit of butter, pepper and salt. 
Cook in oven until set. Serve on individual plates gar- 
nished with parsley. Crisp bacon is nice to serve with this. 

BAKED EGGS NO. 1. 

There are pretty shapes on the market now for eggs. 
Some heart, round, and some are fluted. If you haven't 
the shapes, break the eggs into the fluted muffin rings, 
brushing each with melted butter. Run in oven and cook 
to the consistency desired. Place on toast cut to fit the 
shape of egg. Garnish with crisp pieces of bacon and a 
sprig of water cress. It would be nice to put spoon of 
cream sauce on each egg. 

BAKED EGGS NO. 2. 

Break one half doz. eggs into baking dish, sprinkle with 
cheese. Pour over .them 1 cup cream sauce, sprinkle top 
with buttered bread crumbs, sprinkle again with cheese and 
cook twenty minutes. 

" CODDLED EGGS. 

Good for children and - sick people. 

Break one egg into porcelain cup. Pour over this enough 
boiling water to cover well. j'Let stand covered until white 
is set. Drain off water and>serve seasoned to taste — in 
cup or slide on buttered toasted squares of bread. 



DAISY EGGS. 

Separate the whites and yolks of 6 hard boiled eggs. 
Save the whites of 2 to cut into strips for daisies. Make 
1 pint of white sauce. Have 1 cup of fresh buttered bread 
crumbs ready. While warm run whites through ricer, and 
then yolks, keep separate. Add whites to sauce, put alter- 
nate layers of sauce, yolks, and sprinkle with crumbs. Cover 
the top with crumbs, yolks and bits of butter. With strips 
of white form daisies with yellow for centers. Run into 
stove and let season for 10 or 15 minutes. It will be best 
to decorate after taken from stove. 

These can be made in ramekins with daisy on top of 
each one. When ready to serve garnish with parsley and 
serve on plate with narrow strips of bread toasted. Good 
with fish or can be used as entree. 

These same eggs may be used for breakfast on toast. 
Put sauce on bread and sprinkle yolks on top. 

DRESSED EGGS. 

Cut hard boiled eggs in halves, remove yolk — season 
with salt, pepper, a little made mustard, grated onion to 
taste. Celery salt is also nice. Roll in balls and put back 
into the halves of whites. 

Nice for picnic lunch, twisted in tissue or wax paper. 
A pretty dish served on lettuce. 

Season yolks highly in same way, press back into whites 
to form an egg. Roll this in ground ham mixed with an 
egg and bread crumbs. Form as croquette and fry in fat. 

HARD BOILED EGGS WITH WHITE SAUCE. 
Hard boiled eggs. Peel carefully and cut in halves. 
Have ready 1 pint of white sauce. Cover the eggs in bak- 
ing dish with white sauce seasoned highly — a little grated 
onion if liked — grated cheese may be sprinkled over top. 
Run in stove to season. 

CREOLE EGGS. 

Cook eggs as above — ^run through ricer and put alter- 
nate layers of egg and Creole sauce. Sprinkle top with 
buttered bread crumbs and bake brown in stove. 

Hard cooked eggs are nice served whole with hot Creole 
sauce. Garnish dish with parsley. 



CREOLE SAUCE. 

1 can tomato soup. 1 stick celery if desired. 

1 green pepper. 1 tablespoon flour. 
1/2 small onion. ~ 2 tablespoons butter. 

Put butter in hot spider, add onion, when brown add 
flour and pepper, then soup. Cook until thick. Season 
highly with salt and pepper. It is best to let pepper stand 
in boiling water ten minutes to soften before cutting fine. 

POACHED EGGS WITH CELERY. 

2 cups celery. 4 pieces toasted bread. 

4 eggs. 1 cup cream sauce. 

Cut celery in half -inch pieces, cook until tender in salted 
water. Have toast ready, dip in hot, salted water or milk 
for an instant, spread lightly with butter, while eggs are 
cooking. Drain celery, put into white sauce, spread on 
bread and put an egg on top of each piece. (Have a little 
salt in the water or milk in which the bread is dipped.) 

PUFFY OMELET. 

4 eggs, beaten separately. 1 tablespoon butter. 

2 tablespoons water. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat yolks light, add water and seasoning. (A pinch 
of baking powder added to yolks will keep omelet from 
falling.) Fold this into the well-beaten whites. Have but- 
ter melted in sauce pan. Run into hot oven, cook until 
eggs are set. Grated cheese can be sprinkled between 
when folded for platter. Always cut edges when ready to 
fold. This omelet may be served in a variety of ways. 
Minced bacon can be put between folds, garnished with 
parsley and thin slices of ham. 

Mushrooms can be used for garnish, also oysters. Maca- 
roni in short pieces may be served around omelet with to^ 
mato sauce. 

EGG SOUFFLE. 

1 pt. milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 kitchen spoon flour. 

Cream butter and flour and put in milk, cook until thick. 
When cool, add beaten yolks of 5 eggs, then add well beaten 
whites ; cook inside stove in pan of water. 

15 



FRENCH OMELET. 

3 eggs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 1 scant teaspoon sugar. 

3 tablespoons water. Dash salt. 

Beat yolks very light, add liquid and seasoning. Fold 
into well beaten whites. Put butter into saucepan, brush 
sides with butter also. Cook slowly until brown, moving 
pan all the time. Cut edge with knife when ready to fold. 
Serve on oblong dish garnished with parsley and small sau- 
sage balls. 

EGGS AND BACON WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

French Style. 

6 slices of bacon. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup milk. 1/2 teaspoon flour. 

6 hard-boiled eggs. Dash of cayenne. 

Make sauce with butter, milk and flour. Cook bacon 
crisp, cut eggs in half, pour sauce over just before serving. 



COCKTAILS. 



Cocktails are served at the beginning of a dinner or 
luncheon. They are usually made by combining two kinds 
of fruits or meat and vegetables. The fruit cocktails are 
served in the fruit pieces — sometimes with a little grape 
juice over fruit. 

Meat cocktails are served in sauces to suit the taste. 
Sauces are on sale already prepared. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

One-half dozen blue points in cocktail glasses, sur- 
rounded with ice. Pour over each 3 tablespoons tomato 
catsup, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoon strained to- 
mato juice, y2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 1 drop ta- 
basco. 

Mushroom and sweetbread served in tomato cocktail 
sauce. 

Crab meat served in same way. 

Lobster in tomato sauce with slice of lemon. 



16 



FRUIT COCKTAILS. 
1 qt. strawberries. 1 qt. sugar. 

Wash and cap berries, sprinkled over sugar, let stand 
an hour; mash fine, put in cocktail glasses, serve with one 
spoon pineapple sherbet colored green. 

Cut balls from melon with vegetable scoop. Fill half 
cantaloupe, cut in points. 

Pink raspberries in claret syrup. 

Grapefruit in small pieces with maraschino cherries and 
sirup. A little sherry makes it better. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR FIRST COURSE. 

Large strawberries stuffed with little strips of pine- 
apple. Cut with sharp knife a cavity in the stem end of 
a large berry. Put in the pineapple and roll in coarse granu- 
lated sugar. Place 6 or 7 on pretty curly lettuce and serve. 

Green grapes served in tiny baskets lined with grape 
leaves. 

One ring pineapple served on lettuce leaf with grapes 
or cherries in center. 

Stuff olives with Neufchatel cheese, put on small rounds 
of toasted bread and lay the red pimento taken from cavity 
around as a border. 

Orange basket filled with meat of orange and some other 
fruit. 

Sherbet with strawberry sauce. 

Pears frozen in can — slice and serve with raspberry 
sauce. 



17 
(2) 



SOUPS. 



Soups are divided into two classes — soups with stock 
and soups without stock. 

Beef is usually the foundation of brown stock. Bits 
of ham, bacon and veal can be used, also the bones of fowls. 
Meat, bone and fat make good stock. 

White stock is made from chicken, fish or any light 
colored meat. The meat must be taken from the bone, let 
stand in cold water, heat slowly, and when it reaches the 
simmering point, let stay there for several hours, never 
allowing it to boil. 

Use white of eggs to clarify stock, one egg to one quart. 
Let heat with stock and stand on stove ten minutes before 
straining. 

BROWN STOCK. 



3 pounds meat. 


2 quarts cold water. 


3 pepper corns. 


3 cloves. 


1 bay leaf. 


1 teaspoon thyme. 


1 sprig parsley. 


1 pt. chopped vegetables, 


1 teaspoon salt. 





Cut meat in small pieces. Let stand in the cold water 
one hour, in the kettle ready for cooking. Take out a few 
pieces of the meat, put on spider with melted butter or 
fat from meat and let brown. Add to the above and let 
simmer four hours. Add seasonings and vegetables and let 
simmer another hour. When cold the grease v/iU rise to 
the surface ; take off when ready for use. The stock forms 
a jelly-like substance. 

WHITE STOCK. 

1 large chicken. 2 qts. water. 

1 teaspoon salt. V^ cup celery, chopped fine. 

1 onion. 

Cut chicken into pieces, put in the two quarts of water, 
add salt and let simmer for several hours, or until per- 
fectly cooked. Add celery and onion and simmer one-half 

18 



hour longer. Strain and it is ready for use. The meat 
can be used for salad, hash or creamed chicken. 

The fireless cooker is a great help in making stocks, 
soups and all meats that require long cooking. 

BOUILLON. 

Bouillon is brown soup stock clarified and served in bouil- ^ 
Ion cups. 

CONSOMME. 
Consomme is a combination of two stocks clarified. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

When cooking chicken for salad use stock for soup. 
Add to one quart of white stock one-half cup of rice, a 
little onion. Season highly and serve with brown toast. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

1 pt. oysters. 1 pt. sweet milk. 

1 pt. white sauce. 

Make sauce; add milk. Put into this a little grated 
onion and celery, not enough to tell what it is. When well 
blended add oysters and let stand on stove until oysters 
curl, which will require only a few minutes after they be- 
come heated. Serve hot with toasted small butter crackers. 

OYSTER BISQUE. 

i/z pt- celery. 1 qt. milk. 

1 pt. oysters. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. Salt and pepper to taste. 
1 pt. water. 

Chop celery fine and boil one-half hour in pint of water. 
Cut oysters fine and cook ten minutes in their own liquor. 
Rub flour and butter together in double boiler. Add quart 
of milk gradually. Add celery and oysters to milk. Sea- 
son and cook twenty minutes. Strain. Serve in bouillon 
cups with one spoon whipped cream on each cup. 

19 



OXTAIL SOUP. 

1 oxtail. 4 qts. of water. 

1 lb. lean beef. Thyme, parsley, pepper 

4 carrots. and salt. 

3 onions. 

Cut tail at joints. Fry brown in good fat. Fry onion 
and two carrots sliced in drippings. Put all in soup kettle 
with water and beef cut in pieces. Grate the other carrots 
over them. Cook slowly for four hours. Thicken with 
brown flour mixed with a little water. Strain and serve 
with crisp crackers. 

CREAM SOUPS. 
A Nice Foundation for all Cream Soups. 

I find this the most satisfactory way to make any kind 
of cream soups. Use the following proportions: 

1 pt. sweet milk. 2 tablespoons butter, 

1 heaping tablespoon flour. 

Melt butter in double boiler. Add flour and blend well. 
Then add milk, a little at the time. Stir constantly until 
thick and there is no raw taste of flour. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP. 

1 pt. sweet milk. 1 small onion, grated. 

1 cup creamed Irish po- 1 stalk celery, cut fine. 

tatoes. 2 yolks of eggs. 
1 pt. cream sauce. 

Have sauce warm and add potatoes while warm. When 
thoroughly blended add milk, onion, celery, and just before 
serving add the beaten yolks of the eggs. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 
One large stalk of celery cut in small pieces. Cook 
until tender, in salt water, using two pints. When per- 
fectly done run through colander. Add to the white sauce 
with a little grated onion and seasoning. 

PEA SOUP. 
Drain liquor from one can of peas, cook the peas in two 
pints of cold water or chicken stock twenty minutes. Press 
through sieve. Add to the cream sauce. A little onion 
flavors nicely. Serve with one spoon of whipped cream. 

20 



ALMOND BISQUE. 

2 pts. milk. 1 heaping spoon flour. 

V2 Pt. blanched almonds, 1 tablespoon butter, 
browned and ground. 

Cook butter, flour and milk until thick. Add almonds 
,while fresh and warm. Serve with whipped cream on 
each cup. 

CREAM OF SPHAGHETTI. 

1 cup spaghetti, 'small i/^ onion, grated fine. 

pieces. 1 pt. cream sauce. 

3 cups white stock. 

Cook spaghetti in boiling, salted water. Drain off wa- 
ter and add heated stock. Gradually add one pint of cream 
sauce. Season, and, if desired, add the beaten yolk of two" 
eggs or serve with one hard-boiled yolk in each bowl. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

1 qt. can of tomatoes. 1 pt. cream sauce. 

1 cup water. 1 pt. milk. 

Turn tomatoes into spider. Stew with one cup of water 
until soft enough to mash through strainer. Add one 
scant teaspoon of soda to tomatoes before taking from fire. 
Have cream sauce ready. Add cup of milk to sauce and 
then tomatoes. Stir until well blended. Serve with cracker 
dust. The water can be left out of tomatoes if they have 
plenty of liquid. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

1 can asparagus. 1 pt. cream sauce.- 

2 pts. water or white stock. 

Cook asparagus in water ten minutes. Before putting 
asparagus in water, with scissors cut the tiny flowers from 
tips; save to put in soup when ready to serve. Press 
asparagus through sieve. Add to the warm sauce. Add 
a little grated onion if liked. When well blended, seasoned 
and ready to serve, add the flowers in each bowl of soup. 
Whipped cream is nice to put in soup just as it goes to the 
table. Sprinkle with tiny bits of parsley. 

21 



VEGETABLE SOUP. 

1 qt. stock. V2 cup rice. 

1 cup tomatoes. 4 pods okra. 

1/2 cup Irish potatoes. 1 cup cabbage. 

1/2 cup celery. 1 carrot. 

1 onion. 

Chop all vegetables together. Add to heated stock and 
cook until well done. If you haven't stock, cook one soup 
bone until tender and add water. This makes a meal with 
bread and butter and light dessert. 

CHICKEN GUMBO. 

1 chicken. 3 qts. water. 

1 doz. pods okra. 6 large tomatoes. 

3 ears corn. 2 Irish potatoes. 
1 onion. 

Cut chicken ready to fry. Put four slices of bacon in 
spider and fry out the grease. Lift out bacon, dredge 
chicken with flour and saute in bacon grease. Pour over 
chicken one quart of boiling water and cook until it falls 
from bone. While chicken is cooking put on vegetables 
with two quarts of water and cook until done. When 
chicken is ready, cut fine and add with liquor to the vege- 
tables. Thicken, season and serve. 

CHOWDER. 

Fish Chowder. 

3 slices salt pork. 2 lbs. fish (cod or haddock). 
6 small Irish potatoes. 1 qt. can tomatoes. 

4 small onions. Salt and pepper. 

Cut pork into dice and fry crisp and brown. Turn into 
kettle. Cut potatoes and put in also half of onion, cut fine. 
Lay the pieces of fresh fish (cod or haddock) in kettle and 
put rest of onion over it. Season well and pour over just 
enough water to cover fish. Pour over all the can of to- 
matoes and cover closely. Cook until potatoes are done. 
Add to this two quarts of milk and let it scald well again. 
Serve with tomato catsup. Clam and oyster chowder can 
be made the same way, adding oysters and clams just be- 
fore serving. Cook juice with vegetables. 

22 



GARNISHES FOR SOUPS; 
Grind chicken, fish or oysters fine. Add white of one 
egg. Work with fork until smooth. Add a little cream. 
Season. Roll into little balls and poach in boiling water. 
Drop in soup before sending to the table. 

NOODLES. 

1 egg. Flour to make dough. 

V^ teaspoon salt. 

Roll thin. Cut in very narrow strips with sharp knife. 
Drop in boiling water. Cook twenty minutes. Drain and 
add to soup. 

Yolks of eggs hard boiled, sliced or run through ricer 
makes a pretty garnish f oi* yellow soups. Lemon sliced thin 
looks pretty and suits some soups. 



BREAD TO SERVE WITH SOUPS. 



CROUTONS. 
Small squares of light bread, either fried or toasted in 
melted butter. 

BREAD STICKS. 
Cut very thin sticks out of stale light bread. Brush 
with butter and toast light brown. Serve six or eight or 
tie together in bunches. 

BEATEN BISCUIT STICKS. 
Roll out beaten biscuit dough. Cut into sticks and bake 

in oven. 

BREAD CHIPS. 
Cut slices of light bread with small, round cutter. Cut 
out thin rounds and toast brown after being brushed with 
melted butter. Serve at least six to one person. 

TOASTED CRACKERS. 
Brush with butter. Put in oven to get crisp and lightly 
colored. Serve hot. 

CRACKER DUST. 
Grind crackers into dust. Run in oven to freshen. 
Serve in dish with silver spoon. 

23 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 



FISH. 

Fish should be eaten when fresh and in season. The 
freshness may be determined by the firmness of the flesh. 
The eyes and gills should be bright. When frozen stand 
in cold water to thaw before cooking. 

TO BOIL FISH. 

Cover in hot water or pin in a linen cloth. Cook until 
tender. One tablespoon of vinegar and one teaspoon of salt 
to every quart of water helps to bleach and season fish. 
When done lift out carefully. Serve with drawn butter 
sauce, egg sauce, Hollandaise or Creole sauce. Garnish with 
parsley and hard-boiled eggs. Serve cold with tartar sauce. 

TO BAKE FISH. 

Stuff fish with a bread stuffing. Sew with trussing 
needle; wrap string several times around fish. Rub fish 
with butter, dredge with flour, place in pan. Add little 
water and bits of butter. Baste often. When done place 
on platter. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 
Serve with cucumber and egg sauce. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

SpHt fish. Lay it skin down on oiled paper in baking 
pan. Season with salt and pepper. Dredge with flour. 
Cook on grate in hot oven. Serve with melted butter, 
chopped parsley and lemon. Garnish with water cress. 

FISH AU GRATIN. 

1 cup white sauce. 1 cup grated cheese. 

3 lbs. flsh. 

Boil fish until tender. Pull to pieces and take out ajl 
dark parts and bones. Put in baking dish. Pour over 
white sauce with grated cheese added. Cover top with 
buttered bread crumbs. Run in oven to bake. 

24 



SAUTED FISH. 

Cut fish cross-ways into nice size for frying. Season 
with pepper and salt and dip into meal. Put into spider 
crisco or pork drippings. When hot put in fish. Cook on 
one side. Turn and cook to a nice brown. Serve with corn- 
bread sticks. 

SALT MACKEREL. 

Soak fish over night in cold water. Stew fifteen min- 
utes in enough water to cover with one teaspoon of vine- 
gar. Serve hot with melted butter and lemon. 

FISH PUDDING. 

2 lbs. red snapper. Grated onion to taste. 

2 eggs. 1 pt. white sauce. 

Cook fish until tender and well done in water with a 
little salt. After it is taken from the fire pull apart and 
take out all small bones. Mash well. To this add white 
sauce, onion and two eggs, beaten together very light. 
Grease border mold and put fish in. Steam this in pan of 
hot water for forty minutes and do not let water boil. Put 
inside the oven with oil paper on top. Serve with white 
sauce on platter of lettuce leaves. Garnish with potato 
roses and slices of lemon dipped in parsley. Fill center 
with potato balls. 

Salmon pudding can be made the same way, using 
canned salmon. It is pretty and delicious. 

SHELL FISH. 

Oysters on Half Shell. 

Place six oysters in deep, clean half shells. Put in plate 
of crushed ice with half a lemon in center. Serve with 
pepper, salt and wafers. 

TO BROIL OYSTERS. 

Wash and wipe large oysters. Brush with butter, pep- 
per and salt after placing in pan. Run under flame and 
broil until oysters curl. Serve with horse radish or lemon 
sauce. 

25 



PANNED OR DEVILED OYSTERS. 

2 tablespoons butter. Pepper and salt. 

2 doz. oysters. 

Wash, wipe and dry oysters. Put butter in spider. 
When melted put in oysters. Dust with peper and salt. 
Cook until oysters curl. Serve on buttered toast. Deviled 
oysters just the same, with one spoon of Worcestershire 
sauce and dash of red pepper. 

TO FRY OYSTERS. 

Wash, wipe and dry large oysters. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Dip in meal and fry in hot fat. Use cracker 
dust and yolk of egg if preferred. 

Oysters rolled in sausage and fried brown. 

Roll oysters in thin slices of bacon and fry. Serve on 
oblong pieces of toast. (Pigs in blankets.) 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

1 pt. oysters. 1 cup bread crumbs. 

1 cup cream sauce. 

Wash and drain oysters. Put in baking dish one layer 
of oysters. Spread with sauce. Sprinkle with bread crumbs 
and another layer of oysters and so on until all is used. 
Sprinkle the top with crumbs and bits of butter. Run in 
oven to cook and brown. Serve hot. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS IN TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 pt. oysters. 14 cup white sauce. 

1 scant cup tomato juice. 

Make white sauce. Add tomato and season to taste. 
Add a little minced green pepper. Put in baking dish in 
alternate layers of oysters and tomato sauce, adding a little 
cracker dust. Run in oven and bake twenty minutes. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Open boiled crabs, removing body from shell. Remove 
gills and all uneatable parts. Pick out all white meat from 
claws and body. Use the good part of the inside. Chop 
fine. Season with butter, lemon juice and a little French 
mustard. Clean shells and serve in same. Garnish with 
parsley. 

26 



LOBSTER. 

Boil lobster in salt water twenty minutes or longer if 
size requires. When cold remove body from shell. Take 
out all uneatable parts. It can be creamed, scalloped or 
cooked like oysters and fish. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

1 large lobster. 14 cup white grape juice. 

1 pt. white sauce. 1 can button mushrooms. 

Yolks 2 eggs. i/| lb. pecans. 

When lobster is cooked and cold cut in small pieces. 
Have white sauce in double b9iler, with eggs added to sauce, 
mushrooms sauted in butter. Put lobster in sauce with 
mushrooms. Add grape juice. Season highly, with nuts 
added last. Serve in toasted bread cups. 

CLAMS. 
Clams are served as oysters. 

BOILED CLAMS. 

Clams can be boiled or roasted until they open. Take 
from shells. Season with pepper and salt. Cook ten min- 
utes. Serve hot. 

Broil clams as you would oysters. 

CRABS. 

Crabs must be put on the fire in cold water. Heat 
gradually and boil one-half hour. 

DELICIOUS OYSTERS. 

1 pint oysters. 1 pint of crumbs. 

1 pint celery. 3 small onions. 

Cook celery until tender. Cook oysters ten minutes. 
Put butter in spider, add finely cut onions, celery, oysters 
and crumbs. When well seasoned put in shells and brown 
in oven. 



27 



ENTREES. 



Entrees usually make a course at dinner or luncheon. 
Sometimes they are brought in with the third course. Any 
creamed meat or vegetable may be used as an entree. 
Egg or cheese souffle makes a nice entree served with deli- 
cate wafers. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

2 tablespoons butter. % cup milk. 

3 eggs. Cayenne. 

Yz teaspoon salt. 1 cup grated cheese. 

3 tablespoons flour. 

Put the butter into a saucepan and when hot add the 
flour and stir until smooth. Add the milk and seasoning. 
Cook two minutes. Remove to back of stove and add the 
well-beaten yolks and cheese. Stir until cheese melts. Set 
away to cool. Add the whites of eggs, beaten stiff, then 
turn into buttered ramekins. Bake. Serve immediately 
with wafers. 

SWEETBREAD ENTREE. 

Put sweetbreads in cold water. Remove membranes. 
Put in boiling water with salt and tablespoon of lemon 
juice. Cook twenty minutes, or until tender. Drain and 
put in cold water with lemon juice again. To fry, roll in 
egg and bread crumbs and fry in deep fat. Serve on toast 
garnished with lemon wheels. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 
Cut in pieces. Put in white sauce. Serve in ramekins 
or bread cups. Garnish with parsley. Add peas to the 
above and serve the same way. 

GOOD ENTREE. 

1 pt. white sauce. V^ teaspoon grated onion. 

1 cup chopped cold chicken. 1 small can button mush- 
1/^ cup tomatoes, peeled and rooms sauted in butter, 

cut fine. 1/^ cup pecan meats. 

Mix lightly in sauce and serve hot in ramekins. Gar- 
nish with water cress and serve with salted wafers. 



28 



BROILED SWEETBREADS. 

Rub with soft butter, salt and pepper and broil ten min- 
utes. Serve on oblong pieces of buttered toast. Lemon 
sauce. 

CREAMED OYSTERS WITH GREEN PEPPER. 

1 pt. small oysters. V tomato, cut fine and 

1 pt. cream sauce. drained. 

1 green pepper, chopped V2 teaspoon grated onion. 

fine after standing in ' 1 stalk celery, cut very fine, 
scalding water 10 min- 
utes. 

Add oysters to hot sauce, also onion, tomato and pepper. 
Serve in one dozen toasted crustards garnished with parsley 
and served with cheese straws. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Remove stem. Wash, peel caps and break in pieces. 
Saute in melted butter. While hot season with salt and 
pepper. Cook in white sauce slowly for five minutes and 
serve on toast. Mushrooms can be boiled or stewed. Pro- 
portions : 

2 cups mushrooms. 6 pieces round, buttered 
2 tablespoons butter. toast. 

1 cup cream sauce. 

Canned mushrooms are used in the same way, only they 
are already prepared for cooking. 

CREAM BRAINS AND SWEETBREADS IN PATE 

' CASES. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons butter. 
1 pair sweetbreads. Dash of cayenne. 

1 pt. brains. IVa cups milk. 

1 cup button iliushrooms. 1 tablespoon flour. 
1 lemon. 

Soak brains and sweetbreads in cold water. Boil with 
lemon juice, salt and pepper. Make sauce with butter and 
flour. Add brains and sweetbreads. Fill ramekins or pate 
shells. Sprinkle with parsley. 

29 



SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES. 

% cup flour. 1 tablespoon olive oil. 

1 egg. 1/2 cup milk. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 

Mix all together. Add oil. Set aside, covered for hour 
before using. Heat timbale irons in deep fat, then dip in 
batter and fry. If not crisp, add a little more milk. Serve 
in them cream peas, meat, fish or any kind of berries or 
preserves. 

HAM AND VEAL PATES. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon browned flour. 

1 lb. cold veal. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 slices cold boiled ham. V^ teaspoon minced onion. 
2 tablespoons butter. Dash cayenne. 

2 cups rich milk. 1 tablespoon catsup. 

Make sauce with butter, flour and milk. Add pepper, 
salt and onion. Chop meat and eggs very fine. Add cat- 
sup and stir in sauce. Fill pate shells. This can be made 
into croquettes. 

TOMATO TIMBALES. 

3 eggs. y2 cup sifted bread crumbs.- 

1/2 teaspoon salt. , 2 tablespoons melted butter. 

1/^ teaspoon pepper. 

1 cup tomato puree. 

Turn into buttered timbale molds. Set in baking dish 
on small folds of paper and surround with boiling hot 
water. Bake in moderate oven until the mixture is firm 
in center. The water must not boil. Take from the water. 
After a few moments turn out of molds. Serve with cream 
sauce. 

FISH TIMBALES. 

Prepare as fish au gratin. Leave out wine. Mash fine. 
Add sauce, a little grated onion and beaten whites of two 
eggs. Put into buttered timbale cups. Set in pan of hot 
water. Cover with oil paper and cook twenty minutes, or 
until done. Turn out on plate. Garnish with parsley and 
serve with white sauce. 

30 



CHICKEN TIMBALES. 

1 cup of rich sweet milk or y^ cup bread crumbs, 
cream. Whites of 3 eggs. 

Breast of 1 chicken. 

Run breast through grinder until very fine. Put crumbs 
in milk over steam and cook until thick. Mix in chicken. 
Add beaten whites of three eggs. Put in timbale molds. 
Set in hot water and cook fifteen minutes. 

CHEESE RAMEKINS. 

1% lbs. grated cheese. Salt and cayenne pepper. 

1 tablespoon flour. Whites of 3 eggs. 

Mix cheese, grated fine; salt and pepper. Fold in the 
beaten whites. Shape into balls, one tablespoon for each. 
Roll in crumbs and fry as croquettes. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

When we learn to make and use white sauce, and to 
cook meat and vegetables, we do not require recipes for 
creamed chicken, bysters, potatoes, cauliflower or aspara- 
gus. We only change the sauce, thick or thin, to offset the 
dry or watery nature of the article we are preparing. Some- 
times we vary the flour to suit the material. A little onion 
added to some creamed vegetables improves the taste. And 
such creamed meat or vegetables may be served plain or 
on toast, or in timbale cases, or combined with buttered 
bread crumbs as a scallop, or if white of eggs are added it 
becomes a souffle. 



31 



MEATS. 



BEEF ROAST. 

Wipe a three-pound beef roast with damp cloth. Do 
not wash ; water draws out the juices. Dredge with flour. 
Put in pan with Httle butter on top of stove and sear on all 
sides. Place inside of oven and cook until done, allowing 
twelve minutes to pound. Season with salt and pepper and 
a few pieces of bacon in one corner of pan. Baste often. 
Serve with Irish potato strips around roast, which can be 
cooked in oven with roast. 

RUMP ROAST. 

Select nice rump roast. Wipe with damp cloth. Have 
iron pot on stove, and when hot drop in lump of butter. Put 
roast in and let brown on both sides. Add seasoning and 
cup of water. Cook slowly for several hours. Covered lid. 

PORK CHOPS: 

Select nice cuts. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dip in 
flour. Fry in hot fat. 

ROAST LEG OF LAMB. 

Remove thick skin. Dredge with flour. Place in pan 
with one cup of water. Add a little salt pork. Baste often, 
allowing twenty minutes to the pound. Serve with gravy 
made from drippings. Currant and mint jelly with this 
roast of meat. 

POT ROAST. 

3 pounds beef round. 1 onion. 

2 slices suet or 2 spoons i/^ cup celery and turnips or 

butter. tomatoes. 
1 carrot, diced. 

Fry out suet. Wipe meat dry. Dredge with flour and 
brown the entire surface in the fat or butter. Place meat 
in pot, surrounded with vegetables. Add two cups of boil- 
ing water. Season, cover and let simmer for several hours. 
When done remove meat and thicken gravy if necessary. 

32 



FILLET OF BEEF. 

The fillet is under the side of the loin of beef. It is cov- 
ered with fat. Remove this from top. Your butcher will 
cut this part especially for you. Brush over the top with 
fat. Put several pieces of salt pork in bottom of baking 
dish. Lay the fillet on top. Baste with butter, pepper and 
salt. Cook thirty-five minutes. Serve with mushroom 
sauce. 

Larded beef is cooked the same way, but before cook- 
ing meat insert lardons of salt pork over top and at the 
sides. If inserted at regular intervals, it makes the meat 
more attractive. Serve with Irish potatoes and season 
highly with pepper and salt. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 



4 lbs. round beef. 
2 carrots. 

1 turnip. 
1/^ onion. 

2 pieces celery. 


2 tomatoes or l^ cup juice. 
1/2 pod garlic. 

1 teaspoon salt. 
1/2 pod red pepper. 

2 tablespoons brown flour. 


1 cup vinegar. 





Wipe beef with fat and salt. Pour over vinegar. Cut 
up vegetables and put on beef. Let stand several hours. 
Pour off vinegar. Put beef in pot with a little butter or 
fat. Fry on both sides quickly until brown. Then add flour, 
one and one-half pints of water and vegetables. Cook 
twenty minutes to the pound. 

VEAL LOAF WITH CREOLE SAUCE. 

3 lbs. veal. 1 onion. 

1/4 lb. fat pork. 

Put the veal, pork and onion together through the meat 
grinder. With these mix two cups of fine bread crumbs and 
season highly. Beat two eggs and add to the mixture. 
Roll in the shape of a loaf and bake in oven one hour, or 
until done. Baste as you would chicken. It is a gopd idea 
to squeeze the juice of a lemon over the loaf before put- 
ting in the oven. This improves the flavor and gives more 
liquor with which to baste. Serve with Creole sauce. 

33 

(3) 



CROWN (?) ROAST. 

The butcher can fix this in shape better than anyone 
else. It is made from the full loin. Wrap each bone with 
buttered letter paper so it will not burn in cooking. Sea- 
son highly with butter, pepper and salt. Baste well. When 
done fill center with potato balls, cooked carrot squares and 
serve with Creole sauce. Veal and mutton should be cooked 
like lamb. 

PORK ROAST. 

The rib, shoulder and loin are good pieces for roasting. 
Add a little water and baste often. Thirty minutes to the 
pound. Season highly and serve with apple sauce. Good 
with tomato sauce. This can be cooked as pot roast. Fire- 
less cooker is a valuable help for roast. Sweet potatoes 
laid around this roast and served with it is nice. 

ROAST LEG OF PORK. 

1 leg pork, 1 tablespoon butter or olive 

2 teaspoons salt. oil. 

2 tablespoons vinegar. y2 teaspoon cayenne. 

2 tablespoons ground sage. 

Rub pork with vinegar, salt, pepper and sage. Wrap 
pork in linen cloth, dipped in vinegar, let stand several 
hours, keeping the cloth damp. Rub with oil and flour, 
then roast, allowing twenty-five minutes to the pound. 



34 




MISS JESSIE WOODROW WILSON'S WEDDING CAKE. 




CHARLOTTE RUS5E IN CANDY RING. 




CANDY RING FILLED WITH CHARLOTTE PUDDING. 



POULTRY AND MEATS. 



ROASTED CAPON. 

1 capon. 1^ teaspoon cayenne. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 1 slice pork. 

1 can button mushrooms. 1 sweetbread. 

Fry sweetbread and mushrooms in fat. Rub capon with 
butter, pepper and salt, stuff and roast until tender. 



CAPON. 

Take a capon, split through the back, put in baking 
pan, season with 2 tablespoons butter, pepper and salt to 
taste, 2 tablespoons of flour, and 2 cups water. Baste often 
and cook until tender and brown. Toast some half slices of 
bread, lay on dish and put capon on toast and pour gravy 
over it. You can garnish with slices of hard boiled eggs. 

TO BOIL CHICKEN. 

Boil only a well grown chicken. If tough it can be made 
tender by adding 1 tablespoon vinegar to the water. Some- 
times steaming old chickens makes them tender. If to be 
served whole, stuff with bread dressing, tie it in shape. 
Cover with boiling water, add vinegar and 1 tablespoon salt. 
When tender serve with sauce made with 1 tablespoon but- 
ter, 1 tablespoon flour and 1 cup chicken broth. Cut giblets 
fine and add to sauce. Run into oven and brown chicken 
if desired. 

TO STEW CHICKEN. 

Cut into pieces, place in stew pan with giblets. Pour 1 
pint boiling water over it, cover and cook 15 minutes. Put 
a tablespoon butter and flour together, add gradually to 
the water in the chicken. Cook until tender. Serve with 
a sauce made from the liquor, add mushrooms, celery and 
giblets, or use only giblet sauce. Tomatoes make a nice 
sauce. Dumplings can be used if desired. 



35 



CREAMED CHICKEN. 

One chicken steamed or boiled tender. Cut into pieces 
as for salad, using the whole chicken. Make a white sauce 
of one pint of milk, add chicken and season to taste. If tho 
sauce does not flavor it sufficiently, add nuts and a little 
sherry wine if you like. 

BROILED QUAIL. 

Dress quail, split down back. Place the quail in hot 
spider, oiled with a little fat. Put flat tin over quail and 
press down with weight. When the quail begins to brown 
put a lump of butter on each quail, turn often. When quails 
are nicely browned add a cup of hot water and cook slowly 
until tender. Season well with salt and pepper. 

TO BROIL CHICKEN. 

Choose young chickens. Split down back, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt. Dredge with flour. Put a piece of break- 
fast bacon under each wing. Put a piece of butter in broiler 
or pan, and lay the chicken on it. Broil inside of oven. 
Turn several times that all parts may be browned. Serve 
on toast, garnish with mushrooms and parsley. Saute mush- 
rooms in butter. 

TO SAUTE CHICKEN. 

Cut in pieces ready for serving, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and dredge with flour. Put one tablespoon fat in 
spider and let it get smoking hot. Lay chicken in care- 
fully and cook a golden brown. When done remove chicken. 
Put a tablespoon flour into the spider, stir, add one cup 
cream or rich milk. When it thickens season and serve 
in gravy bowl or over chicken. Care must be used not 
to burn. 

TO FRY CHICKEN. 

Cut as for sauteing, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
dip in finely ground crumbs, then in egg, then again in 
crumbs. Use a frying basket, dip in hot fat and let fry a 
delicate brown. Garnish with celery and watejr cress. 



36 



TO FRICASSEE CHICKEN. 

Wipe and cut. chicken at joints as you would for fry- 
ing. Cover with boiling water, cook until tender and reduce 
water to a pint. Remove chicken, drain, dredge with flour, 
salt and pepper and brown in hot butter or pork strips. 
Put chicken on toast and serve with sauce made of the drip- 
pings and cream, season. Melt 1 tablespoon butter in spider 
and add 1 tablespoon flour. When well blended add 1 cup 
rich milk and chicken liquor. Season and pour over chicken 
on platter. Garnish with parsley. 

TO BAKE CHICKEN. 

Use a young tender hen. Stuff with rich bread dress- 
ing and truss. Put two or three slices of pork in pan, lay 
hen on top of this. Put in oven and cook until tender. Put 
a little water in pan for basting and rub butter over fowl. 
Serve with gravy made from drippings. If fat hen add 
more liquid. 

CREOLE CHICKEN. 



1 chicken. 


1 can mushrooms, 


1 onion. 


1 pepper. 


1 can tomatoes. 


Seasonings. 



Boil one hen until tender, then tear to pieces. 

Sauce for chicken. Cut one onion into small pieces, and 
fry in butter until yellow* — using spider. Cut into this one 
green pepper, one can tomatoes, one can of mushrooms, 
salt and pepper to taste. One tablespoon sugar, one tea- 
spoon Worcester sauce. Cook this mixture till thoroughly 
done, then add chicken, cover and let cook until well 
seasoned. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Use back, neck and giblets for pie. (It would be better 
to use all parts of chicken.) Cover with boiling water and 
stew until tender, add salt. Make rich baking powder pas- 
try. Line pan bottom and sides, cut slashes across bot- 
tom. Put pieces of chicken in with butter, a bit of grated 
onion helps the flavor. Add the liquid, cover top with thin 
pastry. Cut several slashes in top also, to let juice escape. 
Brush top with butter, bake a nice brown and serve in bak- 
ing dish. 

37 



CHICKEN JAMBALYA. 
Cut into pieces 1 chicken and two slices of raw ham. 
Fry the whole in hot fat and set aside. In same fat fry one 
onion and tomato, when nearly done, add 1 cup rice, chicken 
and ham and let fry together, stirring constantly, add 
enough water to cover whole, let boil slowly until done. 
Season with pepper, bay leaves, chopped parsley and thyme. 
When cooked, let dry a little and serve hot. 

ROAST TURKEY NO. 1. 

Use young fowl, when dressed. Wash several times and 
dry with cloth. Rub well with salt and brush with butter. 
Turning breast down. Put turkey in roasting pan, add 1 
pint hot water and put in range to cook from 1 to 3 hours. 
Size of fowl makes difference in time it takes to cook, allow 
from 20 to 25 minutes to the pound. Make stuffing of bread 
crumbs, season with a little butter or stock, pepper, salt, a 
little sage, onion, and one egg to hold in shape. Put some 
of this inside bird, make some of it into balls and lay them 
around in the pan. 

Cook the neck and giblets until tender, in enough water 
to make sauce. Have a pair of sweetbreads ready cooked 
and one can button mushrooms, which have been sauted in 
butter. Add to giblets a delicious sauce to be passed after 
guests have been served to the turkey. 

Make short baking powder pastry, cut in strips, bake 
and when turkey has been put on a pretty tray make fence 
rows around with pastry sticks and garnish with parsley. 

ROAST TURKEY NO. 2. 
Select a fat, medium sized turkey. Put in a roasting 
pan and cook until half done. Then stuff the turkey with 
a dressing made of equal parts of toasted biscuits and rich 
egg bread moistened with the stock from turkey. Season 
dressing with half cup butter, pepper and salt to taste, 2 
tablespoons chopped celery. After turkey is well stuffed, 
put in roasting pan and bake until tender, basting often 
with the gravy. To this dressing you would add cup of 
fresh oysters or a cup of raisins, whichever you prefer. To 
serve with the turkey coddled apples, stuffed with cran- 
berry jelly, 

38 



CHESTNUT BALLS NICE TO SERVE WITH ROAST 

TURKEY. ' 

Boil, hull and blanch enough Spanish chestnuts to meas- 
ure a cupful when mashed smooth or run through the ricer. 
Put into double boiler one cupful of sweet milk, one table- 
spoon of butter and cup of finely ground bread crumbs. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt, using a little grated onion if de- 
sired. Stir until thick, remove from fire and add chest- 
nuts. When cool, form into balls. Dip in egg, then in bread 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat like croquettes. Keep warm 
and place on platter with fowls. 

BONED CHICKEN. 

Boned chicken must be stuffed in shape. With a highly 
seasoned force meat made of chicken or veal. Sew or tie 
in shape. Put in pan, cover with thin slices of bacon. Baste 
often, remove bacon and sprinkle with flour and brown. 

MOLDED CHICKEN. 

Boil chicken until tender, season water highly. When 
cold cut into pieces or strips as nearly one size as possible 
to look nice. Ornament the bottom of mold with slices of 
hard boiled eggs, thin slices of pickle, truffles or finely 
chopped celery. Make a jelly, using i/^ box gelatine to 3 
cups liquid. When cold pour a little into mold, add chicken, 
egg, pickle, etc., move jelly and so on until mold is filled. 
When congealed turn out on lettuce leaves on platter. Serve 
with tartar sauce. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Be sure and select a tender goose. When ready to roast, 
take a lemon and rub the goose well, inside and out. Put 
in the roasting pan, and roast until half done, then stuff 
with dressing made of toasted light bread and egg bread, 
season this highly with garlic or onion, pepper and salt to 
taste, and a little chopped celery. You can add a cup of 
chestnuts if liked. Blanched (boiled) and chopped fine. 



39 



ROAST GOOSE WITH APPLE DRESSING. 

1 goose. 14 doz. apples. 

1 tablespoon browned flour, y^ cup sugar. 
1 tablespoon butter. 

Rub goose with salt, pepper, butter and flour. Cook ap- 
ples, mash, add sugar and stuff goose. Roast, allowing 20 
minutes to the pound. 

LEG OF VEAL STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS. 

1 leg veal. 1/2 cup minced ham. 

2 tablespoons butter. Salt and cayenne to 
1 can button mushrooms. taste. 

1 teaspoon minced onion. y% cup sweet milk. 
\y<2, cups fresh bread 
crumbs. 

Remove bone from veal with sharp knife. Make stuf- 
fing by frying in butter the mushrooms, bread crumbs, ham, 
onion and milk. Put this in leg of veal and bake, allowing 
20 minutes to the pound. 

DUCK STUFFED WITH CHESTNUTS. 

1 large duck. 1 lb. chestnuts. 

1 tablespoon butter. 2 tablespoons cream. 

14 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
1/4 teaspoon cayenne. 

Boil chestnuts until tender, mash them, add cream, but- 
ter, sugar, pepper, and salt. Fill duck with this and roast, 
allowing 15 minutes to the pound. 

TO BOIL HAM. 

Wash well, let stand over night in cold water. Put on 
in cold water, and when begin to boil turn down flame or 
push back on range. Let simmer for several hours. A bet- 
ter way if you have a vessel that can be made into a 
steamer. Lift ham from water and let steam until per- 
fectly tender. Use perforated shelf for this. Steamers are 
made especially for this purpose. When done remove skin, 
rub top with bread crumbs and brown sugar, dot with pep- 
per and cloves, run in oven to brown, 

40 



OYSTER STUFFING. 

Mix equal parts of bread crumbs and oysters, seasoned 
with butter, pepper and salt. 

STUFFING FOR FOWLS. 

Season ground stale bread crumbs with chopped or 
grated onion, salt and pepper. Add a little melted butter 
to moisten, or fat from the liquor in which they are cooked. 

Oysters may be added to make oyster dressing. 

Soak 1 pint stale bread in li/^ pints of cold water. Cook 
1 onion (chopped) in one tablespoon butter. Squeeze out 
water from crumbs and put in onion and butter. Cook a 
few minutes and when taken from fire add one egg beaten 
slightly. 

Cook onion in tablespoon butter, and fry meal cakes in 
this. Moisten meal with chicken fat from liquor. 

Stuff chicken and turkey with corn that has been boiled 
— cut from cob — seasoned highly with butter, pepper and 
salt. 

TO BROIL HAM. 

Cut slices thin. Let stand in cold water for an hour. 
Wipe dry, place in broiler and broil dver coals, charcoal best. 
A very hot spider will answer. 

BROILED BEEF STEAK. 

The best steaks are cut thick. Have broiler very hot. 
Brush with butter or fat from steak. Put on steak, turn 
over and sear on both sides. Turn often and broil or cook 
according to taste. Some like steak rare, others well done. 
Have platter on stove with butter, pepper and, salt. Take 
steak from broiler and put in warm platter. Turn several 
times to season thoroughly, serve with French fried pota- 
toes. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

There are many ways of serving steak. Oysters can be 
put on steak and run in oven until they curl. Mushroom 
sauce, onions sauted in butter are nice with steak. If a 
less expensive steak, such as round steak is used, sprinkle 
with vinegar before cooking. Also lemon juice makes it 
tender. Slash and broil as above. 

Steak garnishes are bananas, potatoes, mushrooms, to- 
matoes. 

41 



TO BAKE HAM. 

Soak over night, wipe, place in turkey pan with a little 
water or sherry wine. Cover tightly so as to keep the steam 
in pan. Cook from 3 to 4 hours, according to size of ham. 
Some make a paste of dough and bake ham in this. 

HAMBURG STEAK. 

Grind lean beef, season with grated onion, pepper and 
salt. Make into small mounds an inch thick, put in hot 
spider, turn several times. Add a little butter, and when 
done make gravy by adding a little water and cook until 
thick. Nice with Creole sauce. 

Planking means to cook food on a plank, in the overi or 
in front of the fire. 

Planks are made especially for this purpose, about 2 
inches thick ; oak planks are considered the best. It is best 
to cook in the lower oven of a gas stove when using the 
plank. Fish is delicious, also chicken, and steak cooked in 
this way. Never wash the plank with soap and water ; use 
a little soda and if necessary, sand paper. 

PLANKED STEAK. 

Have the plank very hot, brush with melted butter, dust 
with salt and pepper. Put steak on and run in gas oven, or 
some prefer broiling steak on one side before putting on 
plank. Baste frequently and turn steak several times. 
Have any kind of vegetables ready to garnish and serve 
with steak. Potatoes creamed and run through pastry tube 
make a pretty border. Make into roses any color desired. 
Between these put cauliflower and peas, or anything else 
you may like. Serve with hot rolls and coffee. 

BOILED TONGUE. 

Soak beef tongue over night in cold water. Cook in 
boiling water with one tablespoon lemon juice and one spoon 
vinegar, 5 cloves, 6 pepper corns and a little salt. Cook 
until tender. Leave in water until cold. Skin and serve 
in thin slices. Garnish with lemon cut thin and parsley. 

42 



MIXED HASH. 

1 pt. hashed turkey chicken 1 tablespoon browned flour. 

or beef. 1/2 pt. stock. 

3 small potatoes. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Heat butter, add flour and stock. When it starts to cook 
add potatoes, cook until potatoes are tender, put in chopped 
meat, serve on toast. 

BEEF HASH WITH SPAGHETTI. 

1 lb, spaghetti. 1/2 cup milk. 

l^ lb. cheese, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Make beef hash, when spaghetti has cooked wash and 
drain, put in layers in baking pan with cheese and butter 
and a thick layer of hash between. Pour milk over this 
and bake until brown. 



4:! 



CROQUETTES, SAUCES, ETC. 



CROQUETTES. 

The invaluable white sauce is the foundation for nearly 
all kinds of croquettes. Both meats and vegetables are 
mixed with this sauce, the only change being made in the 
flour, using double the amount for croquettes; eggs are 
also added. 

Croquettes are made by grinding or mincing the ma- 
terial mixed with the sauce chilled, shaped and fried in deep 
fat. They can be made of one, two and sometimes three 
kinds combined. Brains, mushrooms and sweetbreads are 
usually added to something else. They enrich the combina- 
tion and also make delicious croquettes. 

Cutlets are made in the same way only shaped differ- 
ently. Will give a few recipes using bread crumbs and 
sauce. Others can be made from these using whatever taste 
may suggest. 

SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon butter. Yolks of 2 eggs or whole egg. 

2 tablespoons flour. 
1 pint milk. 

A little grated onion adds to this mixture. 
Two cups of meat to this proportion. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

1 cup white sauce. 2 cups minced white fish. 

1/^ cup bread crumbs. 

Shape and fry as other croquettes. 

Veal, oyster, lamb, lobster, rice, potatoes and peas can 
all be made into croquettes, using sauce to make the proper 
consistency. Croquettes can be baked in oven. Meat cro- 
quettes are pretty shaped as pears with macaroni stem 
on top. 

EGG CROQUETTES. 

1 cup cream sauce. 8 hard-boiled eggs, run 

1 cup bread crumbs. through ricer. 

Season highly, add a dash cayenne, mix lightly. Chill, 
dip in crumbs and egg and fry in deep fat. 

44 



CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

1 cup white sauce. ' i^ teaspoon grated onion. 

1 cup cheese. 

Mix all together and when cool add whites of 2 eggs 
beaten stiff. When chilled cut in oblong pieces, dip in crumbs 
and fry. 

ALMOND CROQUETTES. 

Sauce made for these as follows: 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 cup milk; season highly. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

Add to this 1 cup almonds after they have been blanched, 
ground and browned. When cool pour on flat dish, cut in 
squares and fry as croquettes. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 
Grind one chicken after it has been steamed tender and 
cooled. Use 1 pint of thick white sauce, a little grated 
onion. Season highly and let stand until chilled. Make into 
croquettes, dip in crumbs, in egg and again in crumbs and 
fry in deep fat. 

SALMON CROQUETTES NO. 1. 

1 can salmon. 1 cup thick white sauce. 

1 cup bread crumbs. 

If desired you can use half mashed potatoes and half 
bread crumbs. Add to white sauce the minced salmon and 
bread crumbs. When cold shape, dip in crumbs, egg, crumbs 
and fry in hot fat. Serve with lemon quarters. 

SALMON CROQUETTES NO. 2. 

1 cup left-over salmon. Season with pepper and salt 

1 cup white sauce. and 1 tablespoon lemon 

2 egg yolks. juice. 
1/2 cup bread crumbs. 

Beat whites stiff, fold in mixture, put into little baking 
dishes or molds — set in pan of hot water and cook 20 min- 
utes. Serve with white sauce, with green pepper cut up 
flne in it. 

Sweet potatoes make nice croquettes and puddings. 

Almond croquettes with bread sticks can be used as 

entree. 

45 



FISH CUTLETS. 

2 lbs. red snapper. 1 pint white sauce. 

1 teaspoon minced onion. 

Cook fish in salt water until tender, drain and remove 
all bones. Mince fine, add white sauce and season to taste. 
Mould into cutlets, dip in beaten eggs and cracker crumbs 
and fry in ^lot fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 

WHITE FISH BALLS. 

1 cup cold fish, mashed fine. 1/2 cup creamed Irish pota- 
1/^ cream sauce. toes. 

Blend thoroughly, add 2 eggs beaten slightly, season 
highly with pepper, salt and little grated onion and celery. 
Drop from spoon in hot fat. Drain on brown paper. 

COD FISH BALLS. 

1 cup fish. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 cups Irish potatoes. 3 spoons cream. 

2 eggs. Dust of pepper. 

Soak fish over night. Pick to pieces, add potatoes 
creamed, eggs beaten slightly and butter. Roll into balls 
and fry. 

NUT BALLS WITH CHEESE. 

1 cup tightly packed bread % cup hickory nuts or pe- 

crumbs. cans. 

1 cup milk. 1 cup cheese. 

Yolks 2 eggs. 

Scald milk, add other ingredients, eggs last. Cook until 
thick. When cool shape into balls and fry like croquettes,, 

NUT LOAF. 

1 cup mixed nuts. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup stale bread crumbs. 1 teaspoon salt. 
1 egg. l^ teaspoon pepper. 

Yq cup boiling water. 
1 tablespoon chopped 
parsley. 

Blend thoroughly with nuts. Shape into round roll, bake 
half hour. Serve with celery sauce. 

46 



SAUCE. 

3 tablespoons butter V^ cup stock from onion and 

browned. jjelery. 

3 tablespoons flour. ^ason and add bits of 

1 cup celery. celery. 

y^ onion. 

NUT CROQUETTES. 

1 pound sweet breads. 2 eggs. 

14 pound blanched almonds. t 

Cook sweetbreads, when cold grind with l^ pound al- 
monds, mix with this 2 eggs, roll in bread crumbs and fry 
in deep fat. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

3 cups ground veal. 1 small cup thick white sauce, 

highly seasoned. 

Add a little minced onion, if desired. Mould into pear 
shape, then flatten until they are 1 inch thick, dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs and fry. Before frying, insert a piece of 
spaghetti an inch long in small end to look like a bone, 
serve with mushroom or oyster sauce. 

VEAL CUTLETS— CHESTNUT SAUCE. 

8 veal cutlets. 1 cup crumbs. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 lb. chestnuts. 

V^ tablespoon sugar. i/i teaspoon salt. 

Dash of cayenne. Brush cutlets with butter, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and broil. Cook chestnuts, press 
through sieve, and add cream, butter and sugar. Serve hot 
with cutlets. 

BREADED VEAL CUTLETS. 

6 tender veal cutlets. 1/2 cup crumbs. 

1 egg. Salt and pepper. 

Trim cutlets neatly, salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, then 
in egg and again in crumbs and fry slowly until done. 

Serve with tomato sauce. Cutlets are nice served with 
chestnut sauce. Boil chestnuts and run through sieve, add 
1 pt. of white sauce, season highly. 

PIMENTO SAUCE. 

1 pint white sauce. V2 can pimentos, cut fine and 

added to sauce. 

47 



VEAL CHOPS. 

Trim chops nicely, sprinkle with pepper and salt, put on 
a broiler over hot fire, turn several times. Melt some but- 
ter and pour over them when ready to serve. 

TOMATO SAUCE FOR FISH. 

1 pint white sauce. 1 small grated onion. 

1 small can strained to- 1 stalk finely chopped celery, 

matoes. 

CREOLE SAUCE. 

1 can small tomato soup. l/^ green pepper, cut fine. 
1/2 onion, minced fine. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Put butter in saucepan, add onion, cook a few minutes, 
then add tomato and pepper and when well blended it is 
ready to use with macaroni. 

CHEESE SAUCE. 

1 pint white sauce, 14 teaspoon grated onion, 

1 cup cream cheese. 

Serve hot; good with fish. 



HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Use grated horseradish, mix with whipped cream, season 
with salt, pepper and little lemon juice. 



TARTAR SAUCE NO. 1. 

1 cup mayonnaise. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 small onion, grated. and capers, 

1 cucumber pickle, chopped, 
fine. 

Serve with croquettes, fish, oysters, jellied chicken and 
cold tongue. 

TARTAR SAUCE NO. 2. 

1/2 cup thick white sauce. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 
V^ cup oil mayonnaise. 1 teaspoon minced parsley. 

1 tablespoon chopped leek. 

48 



DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

2 full tablespoons butter. 1 cup water or white stock. 
1 heaping tablespoon flour. 

Put butter in saucepan, add flour, stir until smooth, add 
stock and cook until it thickens. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Add half spoon lemon juice if you like. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Add to drawn butter sauce 3 hard boiled eggs chopped 
fine. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

1 pint white sauce. Yz spoon grated onion. 

1 pint small oysters, washed, 1 teaspooon chopped celery, 
drained, cooked 10 min- 
utes, chopped and added 
to sauce. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

1 heaping tablespoon 1 tablespoon grated onion (or 

browned flour. you can color and flavor 

1 tablespoon butter, white sauce with kitchen 

1 pint white sauce. bouquet.) 

Put butter in spider, when melted add onion, then flour. 
After it is blended add white sauce, season with pepper 
and salt. 

MINT SAUCE FOR ROAST LAMB. 

1/2 cup chopped fresh mint. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
1/2 cup vinegar. 

Pour vinegar over sugar. When dissolved add mint. Set 
in warm place and before serving add warm water if too 
strong with vinegar. 

Mix all together, serve on cutlets. Good with fish. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Cream half cup butter, beat in the yolk of four eggs, 
one at a time, add one-fourth teaspoon each of salt and 
pepper, and half a cup of boiling water. Stir an^ cook the 
mixture over hot water until it thickens. Add the juice 
of half lemon and serve at once. It will curdle if over- 
cooked. 

49 

(4) 



TOMATO SAUCE. 

One can small tomato soup seasoned with one-half green 
pepper, a little onion and one-half cup white sauce. Serve 
hot. 

RICE. 

Wash well one cup rice. Have two quarts of water boil- 
ing. Put in grains slowly, so as not to stop the boiling. 
Stir with a wooden spoon to prevent rice sticking to bot- 
tom of vessel. Cook twenty-five minutes or until grains 
are tender. Drain, sprinkle with salt and put in oven to 
dry. If to be served at table season with butter. 

Rice prepared as above, add 1 cup rich milk or cream 
and 1 tablespoon butter. Set dish or vessel over hot water 
and let season. 

Cook rice, put layer into shallow pan, sprinkle with 
grated cheese, another layer of rice and cheese. Season 
with butter, pepper and salt and bake long enough to melt 
cheese. 

MACARONI. 

Break in pieces, drop in boiling water, or, if desired, 
whole. Let drop from ends gently into the boiling water, 
with salt added. Let cook until tender, drain off hot water 
and pour over macaroni cold water to blanch. Serve with 
cream sauce. 

BAKED MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI. 

1 cup macaroni. 1 cup cheese added to sauce 

iy2 cups cream sauce. while hot. 

1 cup bread crumbs, but- 
tered. 

Put macaroni in pan, then sauce. Cover with bread 
crumbs and bake brown. 

Sauce for this: 

ly^ cups milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

14, cup flour. Dash red pepper. 

14 cup butter. 

MACARONI AND CREOLE SAUCE. 

Break in small pieces, cook as above, drain well. Put 
into baking dish, cover with Creole sauce, sprinkle with but- 
tered bread crumbs and bake until well seasoned. 



50 



SANDWICHES. 



Sandwiches are made by cutting bread into thin slices 
and then shaping any way desired. Eggs, cheese, jellies, 
nuts, meats and vegetables are used between the bread. 

The meat should be ground and all other material minced 
fine to make the sandwiches look nice. Butter must be 
softened before spreading. Bread must not be too fresh 
as it will not cut well. Cut bread with crust, as this holds 
the shape better, then with sharp scissors trim off the sides. 
Another Way — Stack slices and cut sides with sharp 
knife. These crusts make lovely bread sticks to serve with 
soup. When made put sandwiches in shallow dish, cover 
with damp napkin and set away to season. If made for 
picnic lunch wrap in oil paper and seal with pretty seals. 

GOOD SANDWICHES. 

1 cup pecans. Juice of 1/2 lemon. 

y^ cup seeded raisins. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 apple.. 

Spread between slices of white or brown bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICH. 

Grind 1 pound cream cheese with 1 green pepper and 
one-half Spanish onion. 

Mix with cooked dressing and spread between white 
bread or brown bread. 

CUCUMBER AND ONION SANDWICHES. 

Cucumbers cut thin and minced onion. 

Let them stand in cold water for an hour. Butter bread 
with melted butter, then cooked dressing. Cover with slices 
of cucumber and onions and wrap in damp cloth to season. 
White bread. 

CELERY AND ONION SANDWICHES. 

Cut celery fine and onions if they are not small enough. 
Mix with dressing and spread between whole wheat or white 
bread. 

51 



DELICIOUS BROWN BREAD SANDWICH. 

10 cts. worth crystallized Same amount home-made 

pineapple. citron. 

15 cts. worth crystallized 

ginger. 

Grind all together. Butter bread and spread between. 
Use ginger and pineapple or citron, cherries and pine- 
apple. 

ALMOND FILLINGS. 

One-half pound almonds blanched, ground fine and 
browned in stove. Butter brown bread or nut bread and 
spread between. A little pineapple added makes another 
change. 

GOOD SANDWICH FILING. 

1 cup sweet milk. Dash of cayenne pepper. 

1 tablespoon flour. 14 lb. cream cheese. 

1 teaspooon salt. 1 can pimentos. 

Cook milk, flour, salt and pepper and chese over hot 
water until very thick. Add pimentos cut in pieces. When 
cold, spread between bread. 

Lettuce with minced celery and nuts makes a nice flUing. 
Let lettuce show on edge of bread. 

Olives and pimentos cut up with dressing make good 
sandwiches. 

A paste made of baked beans and tomato catsup, used 
between slices of brown bread, with thin slices of pickle, is 
liked by bean eaters. 

Sweet sandwiches made with jams, jellies, wafers, plain 
or combined with something else. 

EGG SANDWICH. 
Take 6 hard boiled eggs. Run yolks and whites through 
ricer. Mix with cooked dressing. Spread each piece ol 
bread with mixture and put lettuce between. This makes 
a pretty sandwich for yellow and white. 

NEW SANDWICH. 

Spread two round or square pieces of bread with grated 
cream cheese, lay slice of pimento between, brush top with 
melted butter and toast. 



52 



CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Grind one chicken after it has been cooked tender in hot 
water. Mix with cooked dressing and spread between but- 
tered bread. Celery and any kind of nuts may be added to 
chicken. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Cut very thin slices of ham. Butter bread, brush with 
dressing and lay on the slice of ham and put the bread on 
top. Press together. Ham may be ground, mixed with 
hard boiled eggs and dressing and spread between bread. 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 
Slice bread thin, butter and toast. Brush with dressing. 
Put on slice of chicken or turkey, thin slice of pickle and 
two slices of crisp bacon. Mayonnaise may be used and 
some use lettuce leaf on bread with dressing before adding 
the other things. 

STUFFED OLIVE .SANDWICHES. 
Cut olives and mix with cooked dressing. Add pecans 
and mix with Neufchatel cheese and dressing. Spread be- 
tween thin slices of bread. 

SANDWICHES FILLING. 

3 or four hard-boiled eggs, 1 jar Mapleleaf cheese, 
cut fine. V2 can pimentos. 

Mix all into cooked dressing. 

SALMON AND EGG SANDWICHES. 
Pick and drain one can salmon, have ready three hard 
cooked eggs. Chop all together, add one large cucumber 
pickle, spread with dressing between thin slices of toasted 
bread or crisp crackers. 

DEVILED HAM SANDWICHES. 

1 can deviled ham. 3 sticks celery, cut fine. 

1 cup chopped pecans. i/^ cup dressing. 

Mix all together and spread between bread. Any meat 
or cold chicken may be used with nuts and dressing for 
sandwiches. 

53 



BROWN AND WHITE BREAD SANDWICHES. 

Cut thin sKces of each, spread with butter and nuts and 
press together.' Any filling desired using one shce of each. 

ROLLED SANDWICHES. 

Cut fresh bread thin, trim off crust with scissors. Spread 
with chicken paste, pate de fois gras, or anchovy paste. 
Roll the slices small, serve with salad at a reception or din- 
ner. It is an easy matter to find sandwich fillings. There 
are so many canned meats, peanut butter and other things 
to fall back on in emergency, when fresh material cannot 
be obtained. 

MOCK CRAB SANDWICHES. 

14 cupful grated cheese. 1 tablespoon chopped olives. 

i/i teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

V4 teaspoon paprika. 2 tablespoons creamed butter. 

14 teaspoon mustard. 
1 teaspoon anchovy paste. 

TOMATO SANDWICH. 

Take a slice of white bread buttered. On this lay a let- 
tuce leaf, spread with cooked dressing. Place on it one 
perfect slice of tomato, cut thin and peeled. Add a top 
layer of bread. Use mayonnaise or cooked dressing. 

SWEET SANDWICHES— WAFER SANDWICHES 
COCOANUT SANDWICHES. 

Make cream icing ; let cool. Add cocoanut freshly grated, 
put between sweet or crisp wafers. 

MARSHMALLOW SANDWICHES. 

Use chocolate wafers. Brush with butter, lay marsh- 
mallows between two wafers. Run in stove to melt filling, 
brush top with butter and sprinkle with finely ground al- 
monds. 

MACAROON SANDWICHES. 

Use cream or mocha filling. Add ground„and browned 
almonds or pecans chopped fine. Put between two maca- 
roons, press together and serve with tea or chocolate for 
afternoon tea. 

54 



DELICIOUS SANDWICHES. 

Use light sponge cake, spread Delmonica pudding be- 
tween thin slices of cake. These make nice reception sand- 
wiches. Add nuts. 

ICE CREAM SANDWICHES. 

Bake sponge c^ke in sheets about one inch thick. Cut 
this into pieces three and one-half inches long and one and 
one-half inches wide. This is half the size of a slice cut 
from a quart of brick cream. Split the piece of cake in 
two, making of each one of them two slices, between which 
place a layer of cream, just as one would put filling between 
bread in an ordinary sandwich. Cut a quart of brick cream 
into ten slices, then half each slice. Thus one quart of brick 
cream serves twenty people. 

Arrange the cake and cream to form a sandwich, on 
top of each place a tablespoon whipped cream and candied 
cherry. 

ALMOND KISSES. 

1 cup blanched and ground 6 eggs, whites, 
almonds. IV^ cups sugar. 

Beat eggs very stiff, add sugar, and beat well. Fold in 
nuts and drop with tube or spoon on linen paper and bake 
in oven when fire dying out. Pecan kisses made same way, 
using one tumbler of half meats. 

CHESTNUT MARGUERITES. 

Press one-half cup preserved chestnuts through a sieve. 
One-half cup fine chopped candied cherries and seeded 
raisins; soften in cream icing. Put between crackers, for 
lunch or afternoon tea. 



BOX LUNCHES. 



In this day of picnics, auto and yachting parties, the 
lunch box is an important factor and one that gives the 
housekeeper many an anxious hour. 

When one can afford hampers, with all the modern con- 
veniences, not so much planning is necessary, but the aver- 

55 



age house is not so well blessed, and for this lunch it re- 
quires much more care in the preparation. 

Sandwiches form the most important part of the lunch 
box. 

The most economical way is to cut the bread in strips, 
squares and triangles, but fancy shapes can be made with 
cake cutters. 

Variety may be given by adding finely chopped onion, 
pickles, olives, mint or parsley to the creamed butter. Never 
make them too moist to be kept for any length of time. In 
the point of keeping quality are ham, chicken, and tongue, 
next cheese and nut combination, and also the sweet sand- 
wiches. These can be wrapped in oil paper and fastened 
with the small seals. They are dainty for a picnic lunch. 
Next comes the pastry and sweets. 

Individual pies and patties should be used in preference 
to large ones. These should be wrapped in parafRne paper 
and packed in a box. Marguerites, cream puffs, chess cakes, 
cup custards, and charlottes may be carried if left in the 
individual cups they are molded in and carefully packed. 

Olives, pickels, etc., are carried in bottles. 

Candy and bonbons in small boxes. 

Eggs should be well cooked, seasoned and wrapped in 
paraffine paper. 

Eipe fruit is always acceptable, and easily carried. Some 
do not like bananas, but for school children, they are easy 
to pack in a lunch basket. 

A bottle of lemon sirup and also a strong solution of 
coffee can be taken. Add two tablespoons to a cup of boil- 
ing water. At picnics, it is nice to use paper dishes, nap- 
kins, cups, tablecloths, and destroy after using. This re- 
lieves the burden of carrying heavy linen. 

Any kind of meat can be used to, make sandwiches. 
Cold roast beef should have a bit of horseradish mixed with 
butter before spreading. Cold pork with Chili sauce; cold 
lamb a few chopped capers, veal tomato catsup, chicken and 
other fowls a little salad dressing ; tongue, corned beef and 
ham call for French mustard ; cheese for mustard and dress- 
ing. Egg paste is good spread between bread ; nut butters, 
come ready, but a little seasoning adds to them. 



56 



BREADS. 



ENGLISH TEA BISCUITS. 

4 cups flour. 2 tablespoons butter or fat. 

4 level teaspoons baking 1 cup mashed potatoes. 

powder. 1 cup milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Boil and mash potatoes, having them free from lumps. 
Sift the flour, salt and baking powder, add potatoes and 
rub in fat or butter. Mix to a light dough with egg and 
milk; roll out a little thinner than ordinary biscuits and 
bake in hot oven. Serve hot. Use potatoes while warm. 

SODA BISCUITS 

1 qt. flour. 3 level teaspoons baking 

1 teaspoon soda. powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 kitchen spoon fat. 

1 cup sour milk. 

Sift soda, salt and flour, mix in lightly the fat. Make 
into soft dough with milk. Knead smooth, roll out, cut and 
bake quickly. Leave piece of dough size of biscuit, put into 
one cup sour milk, let stand until next time, and use in 
making up the dough. This makes lovely light biscuits. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

11/^ lb. flour. 2 teaspoons sugar (dissolve 

5 ozs. lard. the sugar in water) . 
11/^ teaspoons salt. 1 cup water. 

Blend with flour, lard and salt. Mix into a stiff dough 
with water in which sugar has been dissolved. Work well. 
Beat or roll until dough blisters. Bake in moderate oven 
until light brown, 

BEATEN BISCUIT NO. 2. 

1 qt. flour. 2 tablespoons com starch, 

1/2 teaspoon baking powder. Lard size of goose egg. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

Two-thirds cup of milk and water, half of each with one 
teaspoon of sugar dissolved in milk ; have dough very stiff. 
Beat or roll until it blisters. 

57 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

1 cup flour. 1 tablespoon fat. 

2 level teaspoons baking 1 teaspoon salt. 

powder. , ^ 

Sift dry materials together. Mix fat into flour with 
fork or knife. Make into soft dough with sweet milk. Use 
hand to mould in shape ; cut with biscuit cutter or knife and 
bake in quick oven. 

FRUIT ROLLS. 

These are made with baking powder biscuit dough ; make 
richer if desired. Roll thin, spread with mixture chopped 
raisins and nuts, sprinkle with sugar, roll like jelly roll, cut 
into rounds and bake quickly. 



EGG ROLLS. 

Into a pint of flour sift two teaspoons baking powder 
and sift again. Rub into the flour one tablespoon butter. 
To one cup sweet milk add a pinch of salt and one beaten 
egg, then the flour. Make a soft dough, even if it requires 
a little more flour. Roll very thin, use a large round cut- 
ter, butter the top, fold over, brush again with butter, and 
bake in hot oven. 

SALLY LUNN NO. 1. 

1 pt. flour. ' 3 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 cake yeast. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. 1/4 cup warm water. 

1 scant cup milk. 1 egg. 

Sift flour, sugar and salt. Warm milk and melt into 
this the butter. Stir in flour, add yeast after it is dissolved. 
Beat egg separately and add to mixture. Pour all this into 
a buttered cake pan. Let stand until double its bulk. Brush 
with melted butter, sprinkle with sugar and bake in mod- 
erate oven. Serve warm, cut into squares. 

58 



MY SPECIAL ROLLS. 

Cook well done enough Irish potatoes to amount to one 
and a half cups when run through ricer; dissolve one cake 
of yeast' in one cup of tepid water; to the potatoes add two 
eggs beaten light, one-half cup of sugar, then the yeast; 
add one cup of flour and one cup of sweet milk, alternately, 
beating with egg whip ; if necessary, add more flour to make 
as thick as for batter cakes; let rise to twice its bulk in 
warm place free from draughts; make into smooth dough 
with one quart of flour, one heaping teaspoon of salt and 
one cooking spoonful of fat. In winter it takes batter about 
two hours to rise. In summer not so long. Roll out, cut 
with biscuit cutter, put into greased pan, grease the tops, 
cover, let rise one hour, and bake. 

YEAST BREADS. 

Whole Wheat Flour Bread. 

1 cup scalded milk. V2 cup lukewarm water. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 spoon salt. 

1 qake yeast. 

Add boiling water to milk, with salt. When lukewarm 
add yeast dissolved in one-half cup lukewarm water. Beat 
into this with egg whip enough flour to make batter. Whip 
until light and then add flour to knead into dough. Knead 
well, let rise until light. Shape into loaves, let rise again, 
and bake forty minutes. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Made same way, adding one-third cup of molasses, using 
equal measures of white and graham flour. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

1 cake yeast. 11/2 cups flour. 

44 cup lukewarm water. 

Dissolve yeast in water; add flour, beat well, let rise to 
nearly double its bulk, then add one-fourth cup butter 
creamed with one-third cup sugar, two beaten eggs. Add 
one-half cup Sultana raisins and flour enough to make stiff 
batter, or enough to knead like bread. Let rise, work down, 
and spread in buttered pans, making dough about one-half 

59 



inch thick. When light put in oven, sprinkle with sugar and 
chopped nuts. Brush top with melted butter before sugar 
and nuts are put on bread. Some cover with Coating made 
of confectioners' sugar and water made into a paste. This 
recipe can be rolled out, cut in shapes and made into sweet 
rusks by adding one-half cup sugar, a few more raisins 
and nuts. 

CORNMEAL CAKES. 

1 pint meal. 1 pint milk. 

1 heaping tablespoon cooked 1 tablespoon flour. 

rice. y2 teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs beaten separately. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Mix meal, flour, salt, baking powder and rice. Add milk 
and yolks well beaten, and last, the stiff whites. Cook in 
hot fat till brown. 

CORNMEAL DROP CAKES. 

1 pint meal. 1 tablespoon fat. 

Va teaspoon salt. 2 eggs beaten separately. 

1 cup hot water. 

Stir in salt and fat. When cold add yolks well beaten. 
If too thick add a little more milk or water. Add stiffly 
beaten whites last. Drop with spoon on greased hot grid- 
dle and cook on one side until brown, and puffed and full 
of air bubbles, then turn and cook on other side until cooked 
through. 

DROPPED CORNBREAD. 

2 cups commeal. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 2 cups boiling water. 

Sift meal, salt and sugar. Pour over this boiling water; 
let stand fifteen minutes, until perfectly cool. Drop spoon- 
fuls in hot fat and fry delicate brown. A little sweet milk 
may be added to water if desired. 

MUSH BREAD. 

1 pint sweet milk. V^ teaspoon salt. 

% pint cornmeal. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Heat milk to scalding point, stir in slowly meal. When 
done remove from fire, add butter, salt and beat well. Then 
add one egg beaten separately. Bake until light brown in 
a buttered dish. 

60 



WAFFLES (VERY DELICATE). 

IV2 cups floui:. 1^ cup com starch. 

2 teaspoons baking pow- 1 cup rich milk. 

der. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon melted but- 3 beaten eggs. 

ter or fat. 

Sift dry ingredients together. Beat eggs, add milk and 
stir in flour. Add butter. Cook in hot greased irons and 
serve. 

HICKORYNUT BREAD. 

1 egg. 1 cup nuts. 

1 cup sugar. 41/2 cups flour. 

1 cup sweet milk. 4 level teaspoons baking 

1 teaspoon salt. powder. 

Mix well and let stand twenty minutes in two pans nine 
inches long, four and three-quarter inches wide, three inches 
deep. This amount just fills these two pans. Grease pans 
and over top of loaves with melted butter; bake in mod- 
erate oven until done. (Use the one-half cup flour to knead 
in soft dough.) 

SALLY LUNN WITHOUT YEAST NO. 2. 

2 eggs. 3 level teaspoons baking 

1 scant cup sugar. powder. 

3 cups flour. 1 cup sweet milk. 

'2 tablespoons butter. 

Cream butter, add sugar and cream ; beat yolks of eggs 
and add to sugar and butter; sift flour with baking pow- 
der and stir in first mixture, alternating with milk; last 
fold in beaten whites. Make like cake, bake in flat pan and 
eat while hot with butter. 

QUICK GRAHAM BREAD. 

2 cups graham flour. 4 level teaspoons baking 
1 cup white flour. powder. 

1-3 cup sugar. II/2 cups milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Make into batter with care, sifting powder with flour 
several times, 1 scant cup chopped nuts and one cup dates 
seeded. Put into well buttered loaf pans and bake. 

Add 2 eggs well beaten, 1 large spoon shortening leaving 
out nuts and raisins and bake in muffin rings. 

61 



QUICK COFFEE CAKE. 

1 pint flour. 3 level teaspoons baking 

1-3 cup sugar. powder. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon, i/^ cup sweet milk. 

1 egg. 4 tablespoons melted butter. 

Vz teaspoon salt. 

Sift all dry material twice together. Beat egg, add milk 
and stir in flour. Add melted butter. Spread in shallow 
pan, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and bake. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

2 cups whole wheat flour. 1 teaspoon of salt. 
1 cup water-ground meal. 

Sift together, and mix well, then add three-fourths cup 
dark molasses and 1 cup of butter milk. When ready to 
put in cans, add other half cup of milk, in which 2 level 
teaspoons of soda have been dissolved. For raisin bread, 
use one-half box of seeded raisins washed and pressed dry. 

For the fruit bread, 1 cup of mixed chopped fruits, such 
as raisins, citron, cherries or pineapple. 

To steam : Fill one pound baking powder cans two-thirds 
full and place in vessel of warm water. Cover with several 
thicknesses of cloth and a top and steam three hours, add- 
ing more water if necessary. Premium brown bread. 

POP OVERS. 

1 cup flour. V^ teaspoon salt. 

1 cup sweet milk. 2 eggs. 

Mix carefully and pour into greased rings. 

Bake in hot oven 30 or 35 minutes until crisp and brown. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

IV^ cups prepared rice. 1 cup flour. 

1 cup milk. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Brush muffin rings with fat and cook till brown. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

2 cups sour milk. 2 eggs beaten separately. 
1 cup meal. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 scant spoon salt. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Sift meal and flour, mix yolks, add milk and soda, then 
milk, add whites beaten last. Cook in hot muffin rings or 
greased griddles. 

62 



OLD FASHIONED RUSK. 

Sift twice together: 

2V^- cups flour. 14 cup butter creamed. 

1 teaspoon each of cinna- 2 1-3 cups sugar (brown) . 

mon and soda. 1 egg. 

y2 teaspoon each salt, 1 cup milk, 
cloves and nutmeg. 

Blend these all well together, stir in last a cup of raisins 
or dates cut into strips, bake in a moderate oven, using a 
deep loaf pan. 

BROWN BREAD. 

1 cup white flour. 1 cup New Orleans mo- 

1 cup meal. lasses, 

1 cup buttermilk. V^ teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons soda. 

Mix well, put into well buttered molds. Add 1 cup 
chopped raisins and steam three and one-half hours. 

OATMEAL BROWN BREAD. 

1 cup graham flour. % cup molasses. 

1 pint Quaker oats. 2 teaspoons salt. 

% cup cornmeal. 1 pint sour milk. 

Mix all well, steam 2 hours in greased molds, half hour 
in timbal cups. 

OAT FLAKE BREAD. 

1 cup molasses. V2 teaspoon salt. 

2 cups buttermilk. 1 pk. seeded raisins wash- 
4 cups ground oat flakes, ed and dried. 

11/2 cups flour. 

After mixing one teaspoon soda each separately with 
butter milk and molasses, mix milk and molasses, stir in 
oat flakes, then flour and salt, then add raisins floured 
with little extra flour. Bake in five 1-lb. baking powder 
cans with tops on — ^fill little over half full, grease cans and 
bake in very slow oven II/2 hours. 

63 



PINEAPPLE MUFFINS. 



3 cups flour. 


1/2 cup sugar. 


3 teaspoons baking pow- 


1 cup milk. 


der. 


l^ teaspoon soda, added to 


2 eggs, beaten light. 


pineapple only. 


14 cup butter, or fat. 


V^ can shredded pineapple. 


1/2 teaspoon salt. 


strained. 



Mix and cook same as any muffin batter. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

1 cup flour. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

2 eggs. y2 cup water. 
1 tablespoon butter or fat. 

Beat yolks as for cake, add water, beat into this the flour 
and lemon juice. Add fat just before using, add beaten 
whites last. 

FRUIT FRITTERS. 

Peel, core and slice apples. Let stand an hour, sprinkle 
with sugar. Drain, dip into batter and fry. 

Pineapple, peaches, apricot^ or bananas may be used in 
this way. Use one kind or chop fruit using a combination. 
Add to batter and drop by spoonfuls into fat and fry. May 
be served with sauce. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

1 cup com. 1 teaspoon butter. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon cream or rich V2 teaspoon salt. 

milk. 
Mix all together and fry in hot fat. 

ORANGE BREAD. 

V2 yeast cake. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1^ cup lukewarm water. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

2 eggs well beaten. Grated rind of 3 oranges. 

2 tablespoons melted but- 1 cup of orange juice, 
ter. 4 light cups flour. 

2 tablespoons fat. ' 

Dissolve yeast in the warm water and beat this, with 
other ingredients, thoroughly together. After this is done 
add the flour and knead until elastic. Cover, allow, to rise 
and make into loaves. Let the loaves rise and bake in hot 
oven. 

64 



SALADS. 



The success of a salad depends upon the pleasant com- 
bination of the materials. We cannot always find new ma- 
terial for novelties in this line, but in studying the combi- 
nations and serving of the many delightful things that na- 
ture has given us we are always able to produce a variety 
of new salads, and to make beautiful garnishes for this 
pleasing course at a dinner or luncheon. 

Most all salads must be lightly blended and some mixed 
at serving time. They must be cold, crisp and daintily 
served. Salads form a separate course at a dinner or for- 
mal affair. For family use they are usually served with 
the dinner. 

The selection of the salad depends largely upon the rest 
of the menu. A vegetable salad is the favorite one for 
home use, as it combines in flavor with all kinds of meat, 
and makes a well-balanced meal — ^the one that appeals to 
the working class. 

We give a variety of recipes and many more can be used 
from these suggestions. There are several kinds of dress- 
ing, some with oil, some without. One kind may blend more 
agreeably with some salads than others. We give a cooked 
dressing that is especially good. It may seem expensive, 
but when we realize the fact that it keeps indefinitely in 
glass jars with glass top in sanitary refrigerators, and can 
be made from left-over yolks, it will prove itself both eco- 
nomical and a labor-saving help in many ways. 

SALADS AND DRESSINGS. 
CHICKEN SALAD WITH ALMONDS— TEN PEOPLE. 

1 good hen. 3 stalks celery. 

y2 lb. almonds, blanched. 

Steam or cook chicken until tender. When ready to 
take from the fire have one quart or more stock. Cut 
chicken and celery same size. Cut almonds lengthwise, each 
into two or three pieces. Mix all lightly together and add 
enough cooked dressing to season well. Serve on lettuce 
with mayonnaise or same kind of dressing with whipped 
cream. 



(5) 



PINEAPPLE-CHERRY SALAD. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup of oil, thin with lemon juice, add 
to this mayonnaise, i^ pint of cream whipped till stiff, and 
the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, 1 envelope of Knox's gela- 
tine. Soaked in qt. cold water, dissolved in boiling water. 
When this has cooled but not congealed blend with mayon- 
naise, cream and whites of eggs, 1 can white cherries, 
stoned, halved, drained, 2 cans of pineapple chopped, y^ lb. 
marshmallows, y2 cup chopped almonds. Blend with dress- 
ing when ready to serve. 

CHICKEN ASPIC FROM THE STOCK. 

1 qt. steamed stock. 1 box gelatin. 

1 onion. 1/2 pt- water, cold. 

Cut onion in pieces, drop into stock, let stand or put on 
fire to season; salt and pepper to taste. Let gelatine soak 
in half pint cold water. Pour over this the hot strained 
stock. When nearly cold put into mold. Add to this the 
yolks of hard boiled eggs, or one or two whole eggs cut 
into pieces. Stuffed olives look pretty cut in rings through 
this aspic. This makes a pretty ring to serve the chicken 
salad in, and can be garnished with cucumber daisies on 
lettuce. 

CHRYSANTHEMUM SALAD FOR FALL. 



12 oranges. 


1 lb. green grapes. 


1 chicken. 


1/2 lb. nuts if you wish, 


3 stalks celery. 





Make chicken salad with celery and nuts (pecans). Cut 
orange peel in quarters to bottom without entirely remov- 
ing them. With scissors cut in strips as small as can be 
cut. Divide the orange in sections, making a double chry- 
santhemum. Fill in center with salad, putting grapes on 
top. Serve with heavy garnish of lettuce. Beautiful when 
yellow chrysanthemums are used in decorations. 

STUFFED CELERY SALAD. 

Mix Neufchatel cheese with cream; season with salt and 
pepper. Cut up green pepper fine and add to cheese. Stuff 
celery and cut in pieces an inch long. Served with stuffed 
olives on lettuce. 

66 



MOLDED FRUIT SALAD. 

1 cup boiled dressing. 1 rounding tablespoon gela- 

V^ cup whipped cream. tin soaked in l^ cup wa- 

ter. 

Mix cream and dressing togethM-, pour in gradually the 
cooled gelatin. Have ready one can white cherries, one 
small bottle maraschino cherries, one can pineapple, . one 
cup nuts. Cut in small pieces. Drain and dry in towel. 
Sprinkle with salt ; fold lightly in dressing. Put into mold 
and let stand on ice several hours. 

APPLE AND NUT SALAD. 

4 juicy apples. 1/2 lb. seeded raisins. 

Meat of 1/2 lb. English or 
black walnuts. 

Serve with whipped cream and lemon on lettuce leaf. 

NEUFCHATEL CHEESE MOLDED WITH NUTS. 

Make soft Neufchatel cheese with a tablespoonful melted 
butter, half a cup of sweet cream, a dash of red pepper and 
a cup of English walnuts or pecans blanched and chopped, 
or chopped olives and pimentos until well mixed. Press 
into an oval shape on a serving dish, serve with vegetable 
salad — celery, tomato or lettuce preferred — and crackers. 

APPLE AND CHEESE SALAD. 

6 apples. 2 lemons. 

14 lb. nuts. 1 cup dressing. 

1 lb. cheese. 

Marinate apples, cut in cubes in lemon juice. Cut cheese 
in cubes also. When ready to serve, mix lightly together 
and add mayonnaise. Put pecan on top, serve on lettuce 
leaf. 

MOLDED MAYONNAISE. 

1 cup of onion aspic. 1 cup of mayonnaise. 

Make aspic with two cups of water, two onions and two 
tablespoons gelatine. Cook onions in water ten minutes 
and add a little salt. Dissolve gelatine in two tablespoons 
cold water. Add this to one cup of onion water while hot. 
When cold fold in mayonnaise. Color green and serve in 
mold with veal and tomatoes cut in cubes around the mold 
of mayonnaise. 

67 



GINGER ALE SALAD. 

One box of gelatine. 1 cup of water. 
1 bottle of ginger ale. Juice of three lemons. 

V^ cup of sugar. 1 cup of chopped celery. 

1 cup of chopped apples. 1 small can of pineapple. 

2 tablespoons canton gin- 
ger. 

Soak gelatine in the cold water. Heat pineapple juice 
with sugar and lemon juice. Add gelatine when cool, then 
ginger ale and fruit. Put in mold on ice to congeal. 

APRICOT AND COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD. 

1 can apricots. 1 lb. cottage cheese. 

y2 box gelatine. 2 lemons. 

^ cup of sugar. i^ cup of water. 

Soak gelatine in water, cut apricots and lightly mix with 
cheese. Dissolve sugar in syrup of apricots and add gela- 
tine while hot; add lemon juice. When cool mix with fruit 
and cheese. Put in mold to congeal. 

PEAR AND CELERY SALAD. 

1 can pears. 2 lemons. 

2 tablespoons gelatine. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Put lemon juice, sugar and pear syrup on to boil. Add 
gelatine. When dissolved take off to cool. Drain pears, 
place in flat dish filled with chopped celery, cover with the 
pear syrup. Cheese may be used if desired. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Celery and apples, equal parts of each. Add pecans to 
make it better. Mix lightly with dressing and chill. Serve 
on pretty lettuce. 

THANKSGIVING SALAD. 

Bright red apples scooped out and filled with stuffed cel- 
ery. Whipped cream dressing. 

CELERY AND APPLE. 

Cut celery in small pieces. Grate apple, drain. Mix ap- 
ple with mayonnaise dressing; fold in celery. Chill and 
serve in lettuce cups. 

68 



ASPARAGUS LOAF, 

2 tablespoons butter. Seasoning to taste (salt, 

2 tablespoons flour. paprika and pepper). 

4 eggs. 1 can asparagus with the 

1 scant tablespoon gelatine. liquid. 

1 lemon (juice). 1 pt. whipped cream. 

Heat butter in double boiler and strain flour to which 
has been added water into butter, stirring all the time until 
it becomes thick. Beat eggs well and pour over eggs the 
flour and butter, stirring eggs continually. Put this mix- 
ture again in double boiler and cook until eggs are done, 
stirring same until ready to remove from the fire. (This 
only takes a few moments.) Then add the dissolved gela- 
tine. Add seasonings and juice of lemon. When cool add 
whipped cream (about four large kitchen spoonfuls) . Line 
pan with asparagus tips and pour over same this mixture 
and layer of asparagus on top. Put on ice to congeal and 
serve with whipped cream mayonnaise, to which has been 
added a little lemon juice. 

If you would give the loaf the asparagus flavor beat in 
the custard the tender shoots of the asparagus tips. 

AMERICAN CREAM CHEESE SALAD. 

Mold grated or mashed cheese well seasoned into balls 
size of marbles. Serve on lettuce leaf with French dressing. 

CHEESE AND TOMATO. 

Scoop out tomato, fill with grated cheese over the 
chopped meat of tomato. Put green pepper rings around 
tomato. Serve any kind of dressing that taste suggests. 

CARROT SALAD. 

1 cup raw carrots, peeled 1 cucumber, cut in small 

and diced. pieces. 

1 cup tomatoes, cut in small 1 onion, cut in small pieces. 

pieces. 1 green pepper, cut in small 

pieces. 

Mix with a small quantity of oil or cooked dressing, salt 
to taste, and serve cold on lettuce with a teaspoon of dress- 
ing on each serving. Other vegetables may be used if pre- 
ferred, as celery or beets. 

60 



STUFFED PEPPER SALAD. 

6 green peppers. 1 can pimento. 

4 Neufchatel cheeses. 

Remove seeds and veins from pepper. Mash and sea- 
son cheese with salt, pepper and a little cream. Line pep- 
pers with pimento and stuff with cheese. Set on ice until 
chilled. With a sharp knife slice the peppers into rings. 
Serve two or three rings on lettuce leaf with French dress- 
ing. 

WATERMELON SALAD MADE OF APPLES. 

Cut green apples into six or eight pieces. With brush 
and pink fruit coloring paint the apple, leaving enough white 
to look like watermelon. Brush the edges with green. 
While damp from the color dip in celery seed to represent 
watermelon seed. Use the above to decorate celery and 
apple salad. 

EGGS FOR SALAD OR LUNCH. 

Boil eggs for twenty minutes or until thoroughly done. 
Drain off water, peel and roll in palm of hand until round. 
Brush with small paint brush, using damask rose or green. 
Put a stem on top and you will have a perfect June apple. 
Cut eggs to make pond lily salad. Stuff eggs with yolks 
and the same dressing for sandwiches, and put back in 
whites for lunch. 

CELERY AND FRUIT SALAD. 

2 stalks celery. 3 oranges. 

1/^ lb. walnuts. ' 1 lb. Malaga grapes. 

Cut celery in half-inch pieces, oranges in halves and 
scoop out meat. Seed grapes, mix lightly with either cooked 
dressing or mayonnaise. Serve in orange cups in wreaths 
of smilax. 

WEDDING SALAD. 

1 lb. white grapes. 1 can white pears. 

1 lb. marshmallows. 

Split grapes and take out seed. Cut marshmallows in 
two pieces. Mix lightly with cooked dressing. Fill half 
pear and serve in cup of lettuce. Make dressing white with 
whipped cream. 

70 



CHERRY SALAD. 
Stuff red cherries with blanched almonds. Stuff white 
cherries with cream cheese. Mix lightly with dressing and 
serve on endive or lettuce. Serve with bread hatchets for 
Washington salad. 

DRESSING WITHOUT EGGS. 

1 heaping tablespoon flour. % teaspoon mustard. 

1 heaping tablespoon sugar, i^j cup vinegar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons butter. 

1 teaspoon white pepper. 1 cup sweet milk. 

Mix ingredients and put into double boiler, stirring con- 
stantly until thick. Allow to cool and then stir in one-half 
the amount of cream. 

VALENTINE SALAD NO. 1. 

1 qt. can tomatoes. 1 box gelatin, dissolved in V^ 

1 large onion. pt. water; add tablet 

1 cup water. with gelatin to make a 

pretty red. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Put tomatoes, onion cut in pieces, water and seasoning 
on fire in stewpan. Let cook until tomatoes are soft. Strain 
over gelatine and stir until thoroughly dissolved. When cool, 
put in square pan an inch deep. Cut out with heart cake 
cutter and serve on lettuce with wreath of celery. Write 
Valentine with mayonnaise across heart. 

VALENTINE SALAD NO. 2. 

1 ring of pineapple. 1 heart cut out of pimento 

and put on top of the 
ring. 

Pass mayonnaise and lay an arrow made from bread 
across the heart. Have more toasted bread arrows on side 
of the plate. Serve on lettuce. Cut a few stuffed olives 
and lay around ring. 

TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Cut off stem end of tomato, scoop out some of the meat 
and chop this with tender cucumber. Serve with mayon- 
naise. Sprinkle nuts on top ; serve on kttuce leaf. 

71 



PINEAPPLE AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

1 can pineapple chunks. 1 box gelatine. 

1 large cucumber. 1 cup water. 

3 lemons. 1 cup sugar. 

Cut pineapple in one-half -inch squares. Cut cucumber in 
cubes. Mix lightly together. Soak gelatin in cup water. 
Put juice from pineapple and lemons on with cup sugar, 
boil five minutes, add gelatin. When dissolved strain and 
set aside to cool. When this begins to set, add cucumber 
and pineapple. Use mould and set on ice. When ready to 
serve turn out on lettuce and serve with whipped cream 
and lemon. One green pepper cut fine and one-half pound 
green grapes may be added to this mixture. 

TOMATO And SHRIMP SALAD. 

Cut off top of tomato, scoop out and fill with shrimps 
that have been seasoned with mayonnaise. Serve on let- 
tuce leaf. 

POTATO SALAD. 

1 pt. boiled potatoes. 3 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 onion, minced. 

Chop onion fine, cut potatoes in cubes, cut yolks and 
whites of eggs in small pieces, or rings. Mix with cooked 
dressing. Good everyday salad. Cut potatoes in balls with 
vegetable scoop for top of salad. One-half pound crisp ba- 
con makes a nice addition. 

SWEETBREAD AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

1 pair sweetbreads, cooked 2 medium sized cucumbers, 
and cooled. 

Peel cucumbers and stand in ice water for an hour, cut 
in dice almost half inch, break sweetbreads into small bits 
with silver knife, mix lightly, serve in cucumber boats on 
lettuce, with following dressing: 

1 pt. double cream. l^ teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons lemon juice. Dash cayenne. 

Whip cream solid, mix gradually the lemon and season- 
ing; fold into salad. 

72 



VANDERBILT-SEWANEE SALAD. 

Soften Neufchatel with a little cream, season with pep- 
per and salt, color with violet color paste, delicate ; fill large 
celery sticks. With silver knife scrape off even; let stand 
in icebox to chill. Fill some sticks with yellow cream cheese 
softened and seasoned. When cold, cut with sharp knife 
in inch pieces and pile on lettuce. Garnish platter with 
small chrysanthemum oranges filled with cooked dressing 
made stiff with whipped cream. 

SPANISH SALAD. 

3 good-sized tomatoes. 1 can pimento, 

2 green peppers. 1 slice of each on lettuce with 

1 Spanish onion. mayonnaise. 

ONE THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING. 

Yellows of 4 hard boiled eggs, grated, % cup olive oil, 
iy2 cups Chili sauce. Grated onion to suit taste. 

SPAGHETTI SALAD. 

Take one-fourth package of spaghetti, broken into small 
pieces, boil in salted water until soft. As soon as tender, 
throw into bowl of ice water to bleach. When cold, dry on 
soft towel. Mix with it gently one boiled white potato, 
two hard boiled eggs, one-half cup each of chopped celery 
and sharp cheese, one-half teaspoon onion juice, one chopped 
pimento, two peeled tomatoes; season to taste with salt, 
white pepper and paprika. Pour on all a generous quantity 
of salad dressing. Let stand for half hour to season. Ar- 
range on lettuce leaves with slice of tomato and half of 
stuffed olive on top of each. Serve cold with cheese wafers. 

ROQUEFORT SALAD. 

% cup Roquefort cheese. 3 tablespoons tarragon vine- 
2 hard boiled eggs. gar. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. V2 cup olive oil. 
Yz teaspoon paprika. 2 head crisp lettuce. 

Wash lettuce. Crumble cheese into very small bits. 
Run eggs through ricer. Make the French dressing. Blend 
carefully with the cheese and mix with lettuce until each 
leaf is coated. Serve in salad bowl with crisp wafers. 

73' 



FROZEN VEGETABLE SALAD. 

9 large tomatoes. 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 

1 stalk celery. sauce. 

2 medium sized cucumbers. V^ teaspoon grated horse rad- 
1 green pepper. ish. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 1 cup cooked dressing. 

1 cup whipped cream. 

Peel and cut fresh tomatoes in small pieces. Put in 
colander to drain. Peel cucumbers thick, cut through twice, 
make slices in quarters. Mix with tomatoes, add celery and 
pepper cut fine. Mix in sauce, horseradish and onion, 
sprinkle with salt. Then fold in lightly cooked dressing. 
Have melon mould ready. Put layer of salad and some of 
whipped cream, then layer of salad and cream, until mould 
is full. Pack in ice and salt for three or three and half 
hours. When ready to serve turn out on platter of pretty 
lettuce leaves. Garnish with pepper rings. Pass dressing. 

POINSETTIA SALAD (For Christmas). 

Place ring of pineapple on pretty lettuce leaf, drain can 
of pimentos and wipe dry. With scissors cut six long pe- 
tals with pointed ends and lay on pineapple to represent 
flower. Cut stamens from heart of lettuce and stand five 
or six in center. This makes a perfect flower. Serve with 
mayonnaise passed. 

BIRD NEST SALAD. 

Make soft cream cheese into little balls to represent 
eggs. Make nest of shredded lettuce. Put a spoonful of 
salad dressing in the nest, lay four or five eggs on top of 
this. Sprinkle with paprika. Neufchatel cheese makes 
pretty eggs, and may be tinted any delicate color. 

FROZEN CHEESE SALAD. 

2 lbs. cottage cheese. 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
4 large tomatoes. sauce. 

Yz teaspoon salt. 1 cup cream. 

l^ teaspoon cayenne. 1 green pepper. 

Cut tomatoes in pieces, drain, cut peppers. Mix cheese 
with cream and seasoning. Add tomatoes and pepper. 
Pack in mould; turn out and slice. 

74 



CHEESE LOAF. 

1 tablespoon granulated 34 cup cooked dressing. 

gelatine. 2 cups grated cheese. 

2 tablespoons cold water. 1/2 cup chopped pecans. 

3 tablespoons boiling watsr. 1/2 cup stuffed olives. 

1 cup whipped cream. 
Soak gelatin in cold water five minutes. Pour boiling 
water over gelatin and stir until dissolved. When cool add 
dressing, cheese, olives, nuts, and fold in whipped cream. 
Mould in oiled mould. Serve as a salad. 

ASPARAGUS IN PIMENTO RINGS. 
Put asparagus tips in cooked dressing and chill on ice; 
carefully slip in round pimento ring or put in whole pimen- 
to. Serve on lettuce. 

SWEETBREADS AND TOMATO SALAD. 
1 lb. sweetbreads. 6 tomatoes. 

Cook and dice sweetbreads, cut off the tops of tomatoes 
and with a sharp knife carefully remove hearts and dice in 
pieces about the size of sweetbreads. Blend with cooked 
dressing and fill the tomato cups. Serve on lettuce leaves. 
Chicken may be used instead of sweetbread. 

CHEESE SALAD. 

1/^ lb. American cream 4 tablespoons water. 

cheese. 1 teaspoon grated onion. 

1 pt. whipped cream. Salt and pepper to taste. 

1 tablespoon granulated 
gelatine. 
Put in half-dozen mall cups or moulds and chill. Serve 
with cooked dressing. 

SALMON WITH CUCUMBER DRESSING. 

1 can salmon, pickedl||fr;nd 1 teaspoon salt. 

broken into pieces. 2 teaspoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon gelatine, soak- 3 egg yolks. 

ed in 14 cup cold water. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

1 teaspoon made mustard. 1 cup rich milk. 

Put milk in boiler. Beat other things together and add 
to milk. Cook until thick. Add gelatin to hot mixture. 
Lightly fold in salmon and pack in mold that has been 
dipped in cold water. Serve with cucumber dressing. 

■75 



FROZEN TOMATO SALAD. 

1 can tomatoes. 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
1 small onion. sauce. 

V^ cup celery. i/^ teaspoon paprika. 
1 teaspoon salt. 1 cup whipped cream. 

~ Chop celery and onion and put on fire with tomatoes and 
cook until soft. Mash through a sieve. There should be 
one cup thick puree. Add salt, paprika, and when cold fold 
in one cup whipped cream. Put in mold and pack in salt 
a^d ice for three hours. Turn out and slice. Serve in slices 
oi; lettuce leaves. Neufchatel balls are pretty laid on the 
slipe or around if in small molds. 

CUCUMBER DRESSING. 

1 cup whipped cream. l^ minced onion. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. V4 teaspoon salt. 
1 cucumber, chopped fine. 

Whip cream stiff. Lightly mix in other ingredients. 

HOLLAND HOUSE SALAD. 

Three grape-fruits pulled into large sections and ar- 
ranged on leaves of lettuce. One small bottle of marrons 
and two cakes of Neufchatel cheese mixed with cream and 
highly seasoned. Serve with mayonnaise. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

A tablespoon of vinegar, a dash of cayenne, three table- 
spoons olive oil, one-fourth teaspoon lemon juice, one-fourth 
teaspoon salt. Into a chilled cup put the salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. To this add the oil, and lastly, stirring con- 
stantly, add gradually the vinegar. Lemon juice may be 
used instead of vinegar if desired. 

NEW WAY TO MAKE MAYONNAISE. 

Put one whole egg in bowl. Beat into this one pint of 
Wesson or olive oil, add lemon juice, salt and pepper to 
taste. Add to mayonnaise when just finished, one table- 
spoon boiling water for each cup of mayonnaise, beat in 
and when cool place on ice. This prevents separation. 

76 



OUR FAVORITE DRESSING. 

Yolks of 14 eggs. 1 teaspoon black pepper. 

1 cup vinegar. Dash cayenne. 

% cup butter. 1 teaspoon celery seed. 

1/2 cup sugar. ' 1 teaspoon made mustard. 

1 teaspoon salt. %,nd a little onion juicjB 

if liked. 
Put vinegar and butter in double boiler. Beat yolks 
very, very lightly. Add other things to yolks. When vine- 
gar is hot, add eggs and cook until thick. When cold, add 
one pint whipped cream. Half of recipe makes enough for 
small family. This will keep for a week in refrigerator. 
Add whipped cream when ready to serve. 

CORN STARCH DRESSING. 

Yolks of two eggs. i/^ cup of vinegar. 

y2 cup of com starch. 1 cup boiling water. 

Mix corn starch and vinegar thoroughly. Add boil- 
ing water and cook over boiling water until very thick and 
smooth. Add yolks when ready to take from the fire. When 
cold add one pint of oil and the juice of two lemons, salt 
and cayenne pepper to taste. 

OIL DRESSING. 

2 yolks (one cooked and i/^ teaspoon salt. 

one raw). Pinch white pepper. 

1 cup oil. V2 teaspoon mustard. 
Juice 1 lemon. Little onion juice. 

Beat raw yolk light, add the cooked yolk mashed. Then 
add oil gradually, little lemon at a time. Season and keep 
in cool place. One yolk hard-boiled egg will be best. Add 
whipped cream. 

SLAW DRESSING. 

Beat yolks of 3 eggs with 1 teaspoon corn starch, dis- 
y2 cup sugar. solved in a little of the 

2 tablespoons melted but- milk. 

ter. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

1 teaspoon salt. V2 cup vinegar. 

1 cup dream or milk. A little cayenne pepper, 

and lastly the whites of 



Cook in double bmler. 



eggs beaten stiff. 



77 



RUSSIAN DRESSING. 

3 tablespoons mayonnaise. A little chives, cut fine. 

1 tablespoon Chili sauce. A dash of paprika. 

1 teaspoon tarragon vine- A little mustard, 

gar. . A little salt. 

1 chopped pimento. 

If too thick make thin with vinegar same as used in 
dressing. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR COMBINATION OF FRUIT AND 
VEGETABLES FOR SALADS. 

One small half grapefuit with large cavity in center filled 
with finely chopped cucumber. French or cooked dressing. 

Birthday salad made with banana and pineapple ring. 
Cut banana to stand like a candle in the pineapple ring. 

Grapefruit, celery and grapes. 
Banana balls and pineapple. 

Large strawberries and pineapple cut in strips. Serve 
on chicory. 

Shrimp and capers served together with French dressing. 

Shrimp, cucumber and stuffed olives. 

Half pear filled with Neufchatel balls and mixed nuts. 

Peaches filled with stuffed cherries. 

Grapefruit and marrons. 

Egg and celery chopped in small pieces. 

Oranges and celery. 

Apples, grapes and celery. 

Tomatoes sliced with Neufchatel filling. Called "To- 
mato Sandwich Salad." 

Chicken salad with celery and grapes. 

Chicken, apples, celery and grapes. 

CHEESE BALLS NO. 1. 

Yz lb. cream cheese. , 1 teaspoon French mustard. 

2 tablespoons cream. 

Season with pepper and salt and a little onion. Grate 
or mash cheese. Add mustard, cream and seasoning. Form 
into balls and serve on lettuce. They qiay be rolled in 
ground nuts. i - 



CHEESE BALLS NO. 2. 

y% cup milk. Salt and pepper to taste. 

1 cup cream cheese. 

Put milk over fire in double boiler. Add cheese; stir 
until thick. Let cool, make into balls, put English walnut 
on each side and serve with salad or meat course. 

Ground and browned almonds mixed with cheese makes 
a good combination. Make into balls and serve as above. 

CHEESE DREAMS NO. 1. 

Cut lightbread in thin slices. Cut cream cheese to make 
sandwiches. Cheese can be grated and put between. Brush 
over top with soft butter, run into stove until cheese melts 
and bread browns. Serve hot with meat course or salad. 

CHEESE DREAMS NO. 2. 

Cut small thin rounds of bread and cut cheese to fit, or 
put between two rounds of bread cheese filling. Saute in 
hot butter ; brown both sides. Cover for a minute when put 
in saucepan. You can use chafing dish for browning. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

1/2 lb. cream cheese. Salt and cayenne pepper. 

1 egg. Flour to make soft dough. 
3 tablespoons water. 

Mix all well; grind cheese if not soft enough for mash. 
Add egg, water and seasoning, make into dough. Roll thin 
and cut with pastry cutter. Make rings and fill with straws 
(after they have been baked in moderate oven). They are 
pretty plaited in sticks and baked. 

CHEESE BISCUITS. 

1/2 lb. cream cheese. Dash cayenne pepper. 

1/2 cup butter. 1 scant teaspoon salt. 

2 whole eggs. 

Grate cheese, add beaten eggs, pepper, salt, also butter. 
Mix Ughtly into enough flour to make soft dough. Roll thin, 
cut and bake carefully until delicate brown. 

79 



CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

1 cup bread crumDs. V^ tablespoon butter. 
V^ cup sweet milk. y^ teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons grated Pinch cayenne pepper, 

cheese. Speck of soda. 

2 yolks, 3 whites of eggs. 

Beat yolks very light, add bread crumbs, milk, cheese 
and seasoning. Fold in whites and bake in oven until brown. 

TOMATO RABBIT. 

1 cup tomatoes. li/^ cup milk. 

1 cup cheese. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Pinch soda. Pepper and salt. 

Cook and serve on crackers while hot. 



80 



VEGETABLES 



Vegetables should always be cooked when perfectly 
fresh. If kept for any length of time they should be kept 
in a cool, dark place. Green, starchy vegetables must be 
cooked in boiling water with a little salt. Salt not only sea- 
sons, but helps to preserve the color. Time for cooking de- 
pends on age and freshness of vegetables. 

In studying the serving of vegetables we should use 
them with meats that harmonize. Usually two vegetables 
are served with a course. 

IRISH POTATOES— BOILED. 

Wash them well. New ones are best scraped. Peel old 
ones. Put in cold water to prevent discoloring. If wilted 
let stand in ice water for an hour. Cook in boiling, salted 
water from twenty to thirty minutes. Pour off water. 
Sprinkle with a little salt to help absorb the moisture. Let 
stand on back of range with just enough opening in vessel 
for steam to escape. Serve with butter, pepper and salt or 
with a cream sauce. 

IRISH POTATOES— MASHED. 

Cook as above. Run through ricer. Season with but- 
ter, a little cream and beat very light and white. Serve this 
way or put in pan. Shape into a cone, make a little nest in 
top and put lump of butter in it. Smooth potatoes over 
this. Set in stove and bake light brown. Pretty served on 
platter after being put through ricer and garnished with 
a few egg yolks boiled and run through ricer also. 

POTATO SURPRISE. 

1 pt. mashed potatoes % teaspoon celery, 

(use while hot). 14 teaspoon pepper. 
1 tablespoon butter. Dash cayenne. 

1 teaspoon salt. V2 teaspoon grated onion. 

Let cool slightly. Add one yolk. Shape in balls. Fill 
center with peas or sweetbreads, seasoned (any cold meat 
will answer). Shape as croquettes or potatoes and fry in 
deep fat. 

81 

(6) 



FRIED POTATOES. 

There are various ways of preparing potatoes for fry- 
ing or sauteing. Cold, boiled potatoes made into cakes can 
be dipped in flour and sauted in butter. Parboil potato balls. 
Dip in hot fat and fry delicate brown. Cut potatoes in 
slices, cubes or latticed slices. Fry in deep fat. Drain on 
brown paper and serve at once. 

Use vegetable scoop for cutting small potato balls. Use 
the waste for creamed potatoes or run through ricer after 
cooking in salted water. Salad can be made of the pieces 
after they have been drained and cooled. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Cut potatoes in cubes. Cook as above. Drain and serve 
with cream sauce. One pint of sauce, one cup of cream 
cheese, two and one-half cups potato cubes. 

COLD POTATOES. 

Make white sauce. Pour over potatoes. Run in stove 
to heat. Serve with little chopped parsley over them. 
Cheese can b& used the same as above. 

POTATOES IN THEIR JACKETS. 

Wash well and dry. Put in a hot oven and cook from 
fifty to sixty minutes. When soft break skin in one place 
and serve at once. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Cook as above. Cut off end carefully, keeping the hull 
from being broken. Scoop out potato. Season with but- 
ter, pepper and salt and a little grated onion. Fill hulls 
full. Run in oven in pan to season. Serve hot. Cheese 
may be used grated instead of onion, or both, if liked. 

BROILED POTATOES— COLD. 

Cut in slices or small pieces. Put tablespoon of butter 
in saucepan. When hot put in potatoes. Mix thoroughly 
with butter until fat is absorbed. Sprinkle with salt and 
serve at once. A little grated onion can be added to butter 
before putting in potatoes. 

82 



SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil sweet potatoes as you would Irish potatoes. Drain, 
mash, season with sugar and butter and a little cinnamon 
or any kind of spice you may like. Put in pan. Run in 
stove to brown and serve. Sprinkle top with ground almonds 
and bits of butter. Stale cake crumbs ground and browned 
make them nice. 

Another Way to Make Sweet Potatoes Delicious. 

Prepare them as above with sugar and butter. Add one 
cup of old-fashioned walnuts, one-fourth cup of Sherry wine 
and put in baking dish. One cup of raisins may also be 
added. Serve in baking dish with meat course. Marsh- 
mallow on top makes a lovely meringue. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil or steam. Scrape, slice and put in pan with layers 
of butter, brown sugar and potatoes. Cook until candied 
in stove, or put in saucepan on top of stove and cook until 
thick syrup. 

Sweet potatoes can be wished, wiped and brushed with 
a little grease and baked in oven until mealy and soft. 

PUMPKIN. 

Cut in small pieces after peeling. Put on stove with 
just enough water to keep from sticking to vessel, as it 
contains so much moisture. Cook until tender and drain 
if there should be too much liquid. Season with butter and 
salt. Some fry in butter as you would squash. 

PARSNIPS. 

Wash, peel and boil until done. This requires about an 
hour. Cut lengthwise strips. Dip in butter, then in flour 
and saute on both sides until brown. They can be mashed 
as potatoes, mixed with an egg, seasoned and made into 
cakes, dipped in flour and sauted as above. 

83 



SQUASH. 

Wash, peel and cut in pieces. Cook in salted water until 
tender. Drain. Season like okra, adding a little cream. 

Another way to cook squash : After boiling add season- 
ing and a little cream or milk and an onion, chopped fine. 
Put butter in saucepan and fry until brown. 

Small squash are so pretty to serve creamed squash in. 
Hull out center without peeling them. Cook the pieces as 
above and let the hulls steam until tender, but not long 
enough to spoil the shape. Season with cream, butter, pep- 
per and salt and a little grated onion. Fill cavities. Run 
in stove and let season. Can be served on individual plates 
or as an entree. 

SALSIFY. 

Wash, peel or scrape. Let stand in cold water for awhile. 
Cut in inch pieces. Boil in salted water, changing several 
times. When tender serve in cream sauce. 

GREEN CORN. 

Pick over carefully and brush with a little whiskbroom. 
Drop in boiling water (salted) and cook twenty to thirty 
minutes. Serve hot with butter. Can be cut from cob, put 
in vessel over hot water, seasoned and served hot. 

STEWED CORN. 

3 cups com. 1 cup water. 

1 cup rich milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Cut corn from cob. Scrape out pulp. Put in stew pan 
with water. Cover and cook until tender, which requires 
about twenty minutes. Add butter and cream before taking 
from fire; also pepper and salt. 

CORN PUDDING. 

2 cups com. 2 cups milk. 

2 eggs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 teaspoon salt. A little sugar. 

Grate com from ear. Add eggs, melted butter, salt and 
sugar. Put in baking dish and cook until it thickens and 
browns. 

84 



CORN DROP CAKES. 

2 cups grated com. 1 scant teaspoon baking 

2 eggs or 4 yolks, beaten. powder. 

Vi, cup flour. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Season with salt. 

Beat eggs. Add corn. Sift baking powder with flour 
and fold into the mixture. Add butter and drop by spoon- 
fuls into hot fat and brown. 



FRIED CORN. 
3 cups com. 1 tablespoon fat or butter. 

Cut com and scrape the pulp. Put drippings in spider. 
When hot add corn. Stir well and cook twenty minutes. 
Season with salt and pepper and serve in baking dish while 
warm. A little sugar added to com helps the taste. 

ONION. 

Peel off outside skin. Cook in boiling, salted water until 
tender. Can be served whole seasoned with melted butter or 
cream sauce. If large, cut small pieces after boiled and 
serve with white sauce. 

SPANISH ONIONS— STUFFED. 

6 medium Spanish onions. 1 cup water. 

1 cup minced or ground 1 heaping tablespoon butter, 

cold meat. Pepper and salt to taste. 
Yz' cup bread crumbs. 

Parboil onions until tender or cut out the center before 
cooking. Chop the pieces. Add a few bread crumbs, some 
minced ham^ chicken or veal, or both. Season highly with 
salt and pepper. Moisten with melted butter. Fill cavities 
of onion, put in baking dish, pour over this a little water or 
cream. Put in stove and bake until tender and brown, after 
sprinkling top with bread crumbs. 

BROILED ONION. 

Slice one large Spanish onion, sprinkle with salt. Saute 
in melted butter until brown on each side. Serve on rounds 
of buttered toast. 

85 



CABBAGE. 

Cut cabbage in quarters. Pull open the leaves. Let 
stand in cold salted water thirty minutes. To one head of 
cabbage allow one-half pound of salt pork or bacon. Put 
meat in kettle of cold water, when boiling put in cabbage 
cut from the stalk. Cook in uncovered vessel for one-half 
hour. When done drain, season with salt and cayenne pep- 
per, pile on platter, put meat in center and serve, 

CABBAGE NO. 2 (CREAMED). 

Cut fine, let stand in water awhile, put into vessel of 
boiling water with salt. Cook ten minutes. Drain, add 
enough boiling water to cover and cook ten minutes more. 
Drain. Have ready white sauce, put into cabbage, season 
and serve hot. Can put in baking dish covered with but- 
tered bread crumbs and run into oven and brown. 

COLD SLAW. 

Shave cabbage, stand in ice water to make crisp. Drain, 
add cooked salad dressing and serve with vegetables. Hard 
boiled eggs garnish this nicely and add to the taste. Onion 
and celery may be added. 

GREENS. 

Mustard, kale and turnip greens are cooked the same 
way as spinach. It is necessary to pick and wash each leaf 
carefully. The old-fashioned way of cooking turnip greens 
seems the most popular, and some think it quite a treat, to 
be able to enjoy the hog jowl and greens. Have meat boil- 
ing in water some time before adding greens. Cook until 
tender. Serve on platter with meat in center and poached 
eggs around border of dish. 

GREEN STRING BEANS. 

Old-fashion way to cook string beans, break into pieces. 
Let stand in cold water for a while. Put one half pound 
fat pork into a pint of cold water and cook for half an hour. 
Then add three pints of beans. Cook for one and half hours. 
If water should boil out add a little more warm water. Sea- 
son and serve on platter with pork sliced. 

86 



SPINACH. 

Pick, wash spinach, put in boiling water and cook until 
tender. Drain, season with salt, butter and pepper. Put in 
warm platter. Serve with hard boiled eggs cut in rounds 
and laid around spinach. Poached eggs are also nice with 
this vegetable. 

EGG PLANT. 

Boil until tender, cut in half, scoop out center. Mash 
pulp, season with salt, pepper and a little butter, a few 
drops cream. Fill shell, sprinkle top with bread crumbs and 
a small piece of butter and brown in oven. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Remove skins, cut in thin slices and let stand in salt 
water for one-half hour. Dip in egg and fry in fat. 

CUCUMBER. 

Cucumbers are bitter near the skin. Peel thick and slice 
thin. Let stand in cold, or ice water without salt, as salt 
toughens them. Drain and serve on crushed ice. An onion 
sliced added to the cold water while standing improves the 
taste of the cucumber. They are often served together at 
table. 

FRIED CUCUMBER. 

Prepare as above, slice, drain and dip in salted meal 
with pepper added. Fry in butter a delicate brown. A lit- 
tle minced onion added to butter before cucumbers are put 
in improves flavor. Turn with spatula. Serve on toasted 
crackers or small rounds of bread sauted in butter. 

TURNIPS. 

« 

Cook like carrots. After boiling in salt water ten min- 
utes drain, and pour fresh boiling water over them. Cook 
until tender, season and serve with white sauce. 

Cook turnips as above, when second water has been 
added season with fresh pieces of pork, a little sugar to 
soften the strong taste, cayenne and a little salt. Serve hot 
with com bread sticks. 

87 



STUFFED TURNIPS. 

6 turnips, even in size. 2 teaspoons milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. l/^ teaspoon chopped onion. 

2 slices bacon. 1/2 cup fresh crumbs. 

Salt and pepper to taste. Boil turnips until tender, and 
cut off tops and scoop out center. Chop fine with bacon, 
onion, bread crumbs and milk and fry in butter. Put in 
turnip shells, sprinkle. with crumbs, piece of butter on each 
and bake ten minutes. 

Nice way to cut turnips as a rose, steam until ten- 
der, color any shade. Serve creamed turnips in same. A 
perfect calla lily can be made of a thin slice of turnip pinned 
together at one side with carrot center, using parsley for 
stem. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Take off outside leaves, cover with cold water and let 
stand half hour. Drain, cook in boiling water in uncovered 
vessel until tender. Pour a well seasoned creamed dressing 
over it. Do not season until done. It is often cooked in 
cheese-cloth bag to keep it white. 

BEETS. 

Wash well, cook without peeling. It requires one hour 
for cooking beets. Drain and rub off skins. Slice, serve 
with vinegar, pepper and salt. Some prefer them with su- 
gar and butter. 

OKRA. 

Cook whole if pods are not too large. Cut in smaller 
pieces if large. Cook in boiling water (salted), for thirty 
minutes. Drain, season with pepper, salt and drawn butter. 
A little vinegar improves taste. 

Okra can be dipped in batter and fried like oysters. It 
tastes very much like them. 

TOMATOES. 

There are a great many ways of preparing and serving 
tomatoes. The simplest way is to serve them chilled, peeled 
and sliced. Season with salt, pepper and vinegar, or sugar. 
They can be cut in halves or in sections to look like a pond 
lily and served with salad dressing. Pretty on lettuce leaf. 

88 



BROILED TOMATOES FOR BREAKFAST (GREEN). 

Wash, wipe and cut in inch slices. Dip in meal that has 
been salted and pepper added. Melt some butter in spider, 
when hot put in slices of tomato. When brown turn and 
brown other side. Serve on very thin slices of toast. Nice 
with poached egg on each slice. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

1 can stewed tomatoes. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 
1/^ cup sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

If fresh tomatoes, peel, cut into pieces, add sugar, a lit- 
tle salt, and the vinegar. Cook until tender and thick. Add 
butter and serve with dinner. 

BAKED TOMATOES NO. 1. 

Select tomatoes near same size. Allow one tomato for 
each person. Wash, wipe and cut off top, scoop out center 
and fill the cavity withthe tomato cut fine, seasoned highly 
with salt, pepper, onion, bread crumbs and a little chopped 
celery. Cold meat ground can be used with this mixture. 
Put tomatoes in pan with a little butter on each. Run in 
' oven and bake twenty minutes. 

BAKED TOMATOES NO. 2. 

6 tomatoes, as near one 6 mushrooms^ 

size as possible. 1 tablespoon chopped pars- 

1 heaping tablespoon bread ley, 

crumbs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon grated cheese. Pepper and salt. 

Cut the tomatoes in halves if large enough. Scrape out 
some of pulp and add to the mixture. When mixed fill to- 
matoes, place in buttered tin, season highly and bake in mod- 
erate oven twenty minutes. 

BAKED TOMATOES NO. 3. 

4 large tomatoes. 2 tablespoons butter. 

:^ cup brown sugar. 1 tablespoon water. 

Scald tomatoes and peel. Put in baking pan, add sugar, 
butter and water and bake until done. 

89 



ASPARAGUS. 

Wash, scrape and let stand in cold water. Tie several 
stalks together and cook standing with bloom end up. It is 
more tender and takes less time to cook. Serve on toast 
with cream sauce poured over it. 

Canned asparagus needs only heating and is served in 
same way. Asparagus tips are pretty in bread cups with 
cheese sauce. Garnish with crisp parsley. 

BUTTER BEANS. 

Shell and let stand in cold water for a while. Cover 
with boiling salted water. Cook one hour. Serve with cream 
sauce or drawn butter. Can be pressed through potato ricer ; 
add a little cream, butter, pepper and salt. Put in pan, 
sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs and run in stove to 
season. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell, cover with boiling water and cook thirty minutes 
in an uncovered vessel. Drain, season and serve hot. A 
litle sugar is sometimes an improvement. White sauce can 
be used with peas. 

CARROTS. 

Cut in squares or bars, boil in salted water. Drain well, 
season with salt and pepper and serve with drawn butter or 
cream sauce. 

SURPRISE BALLS. 

Take cold mashed potatoes, form into balls size of an 
egg, with spoon make cavity in each end large enough to 
put an oyster. Dip in beaten egg, roll in crumbs and fry 
in deep fat. Cold minced meat may be substituted for oys- 
ter. Serve with tartar sauce. 

STUFFED PIMENTOS. 

1 cup cold potatoes. A little bacon, bread crumbs, 

1 tablespoon hominy. onion juice, and Worcester- 

shire sauce. 

Mix all together and stuff pimentos. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 
Scallop as you do oysters, only add pimentos and grated 
cheese on top. 

90 



DRIED LIMA BEANS. 

Soak for several hours one pint of lima beans. Put in 
boiling water, let come to boil quickly, and simmer until 
done. Season with salt and butter. 

Black eyed peas are cooked the same way. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Three and one-half cups of beans soaked over night. 
Parboil about ten minutes. Take from pot and add three- 
fourths pounds of salt pork, two tablespoons of black mo- 
lasses, and one teaspoon salt. Put in bean pot, cover with 
water in which beans have been cooked. Bake in slow oven 
for several hours, adding water when necessary. When 
done, remove cover and brown. 

MOLDED MACARONI. 

1 ten cent box macaroni. 14 cup cheese. 

1 cup of soft bread crumbs. 3 eggs. 

1 cup milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

2 pimentoes or green pep- 2 tablespoons chopped nuts. 

pers. 1 medium size onion. 

2 tablespoons chopped pars- 
ley seasoned to taste. 

Heat milk and add bread crumbs and butter. When 
slightly cooled add eggs well beaten and follow with other 
ingredients. Fill a one pound baking powder can with mix- 
ture and steam one hour. Can must be greased before mix- 
ture is put in. To steam 1 place can in vessel of water so 
the water can circulate under can as well as around sides. 
Vessel in which can is placed must be closed. 'Remove from 
can, slice and serve with tomato sauce. 

ASPARAGUS CHEESE. 

1 can asparagus tips. 1 cup yellow cheese. 

1 cup blanched almonds. 

Make a thick white sauce, using asparagus juice with one 
cup sweet milk, one tablespoon each of flour and butter, add 
to this the cheese. Cut asparagus in three pieces. Put in 
baking pan, cover with cheese sauce with almonds cut in two 
or three strips added. Sprinkle top with soft bread crumbs 
and bits of butter run in over to season and brown. De- 
licious. 

91 



COMBINATION VEGETABLES, MEAT AND EGGS. 



GREEN PEAS AND ASPARAGUS TIPS. 

2 cups green peas. l/^ teaspoon minced parsley. 

1 cup asparagus tips. Salt and pepper. 

1 cup cream sauce. 

Boil peas and asparagus until tender, and serve with 
cream sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

MACARONI AND SAUSAGE. 

Cook macaroni with cheese as directed. When almost 
ready to be taken from stove have some sausage balls of 
good country sausage made about size of marbles. Fry 
brown and put on top of macaroni. Let stand in stove to 
season and serve in baking dish garnished with parsley. 

DEVILED EGGS WITH TOMATOES. 

6 eggs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

y% teaspoon grated onion. 1 teaspoon corn starch. 
1 pt. tomatoes. 

Cook tomatoes with onion, salt and pepper for a few 
minutes. Add butter and com starch, cook five minutes 
longer. Beat eggs lightly, stir in tomatoes and serve on 
toast. 

STARCHED EGGS WITH FISH CUTLETS. 

6 hard-boiled eggs. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup rich milk. 1 tablespoon minced parsley. 

2 tablespoons butter. Dash of cayenne. 
1 tablespoon flour. 

Slice egg in half lengthwise. Make sauce of milk, flour, 
butter, salt and pepper. Pour over eggs and sprinkle with 
parsley. Serve with fish cutlets. 

GREEN CORN WITH GREEN PEPPERS, TOMATOES 
AND ONIONS. 

6 ears com; cut off half 3 tomatoes, peeled and cut 

and scrape. fine. 

y^ green pepper. 1 teaspoon chopped onion. 

Cook slowly for twenty minutes, or until reduced; sea- 
son, salt and pepper ; add one tablespoonf ul butter when tak- 
ing from fire. 

92 



TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CHICKEN LIVERS. 

6 tomatoes. 1 pinch nutmeg. 

6 chicken livers. 1 cup fresh bread crumbs. 

y^ tablespoon butter. 1/4 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon olive oil. l^ teaspoon cayenne pepper. 

1/^ teaspoon minced parsley. % grated onion. 

Cut off the top of tomatoes, remove the inside with a 
spoon and chop up bread and livers (after being boiled). 
Then add salt, pepper, onion, parsley, butter and nutmeg. 
Fry in oil, put back in tomato shells, dust with bread crumbs 
and bake ten minutes. 

RICE SERVED IN TOMATO SAUCE. 
After rice has been cooked and cooled it can be made 
into pretty border molds to serve meats in or any creamed 
vegetable. 

It can be colored any shade with fruit paste. Green rice 
beds are pretty for broiled chicken or croquettes. 

EGG PLANT AND GREEN PEPPERS. 
Peel, cut in cubes and parboil egg plant twenty minutes. 
Drain, put in baking dish with alternate layers of well but- 
tered bread crumbs and finely minced green peppers. When 
the pan is full pour over this one-half cup white sauce sea- 
soned highly. Cover top with crumbs and bits of butter. 
Run in stove to bake covered. Take off top and let brown 
before sending to table. 

SUCCOTASH. 

1 pt. butterbeans. 1 tablespoon butter. 

14 cup cream. Salt and pepper to taste. 

4 ears corn. 

Boil beans and com until tender ; cut com from ear and 
mix with beans ; stir in cream, salt, pepper and butter. 

MIXED HASH. 

1 pt. hashed turkey, chick- 1 tablespoon browned flour. 

en or beef. 1/2 Pt. stock. 

3 small potatoes. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Heat butter, add flour and stock. When it starts to 
cook, add potatoes. Cook until potatoes are done. Put in 
chopped meat and serve on toast. 

93 



BEEF HASH WITH SPAGHETTI. 

1 lb. spaghetti. 14 lb. cheese. 

1/^ cup milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Make beef hash. When spaghetti has cooked wash and 
drain. Put in layers in baking pan with cheese and butter 
and a thick layer of hash between. Pour milk over this and 
bake until brown. 

GREEN CORN AND GREEN PEPPERS. 
Four ears com boiled in salt water twenty minutes. Cut 
corn from cob. Cut peppers in halves, take out lining and 
seeds. Drop in boiling water while corn is cooking. When 
com has been cut, season with butter, pepper and salt and 
set over hot water on stove. When peppers are tender 
remove from fire, cut in small pieces and mix with corn. 
Let stand until blended. Can be served in pepper cups or 
poured in baking dish. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

6 green peppers. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

2 cups minced cold meat, 1 cup stock or water. 

chicken or veal. Salt and pepper. 

1 cup bread crumbs. 1 cup tomato sauce. 
1 small onion. Ham, ground. 

Cut tops from peppers. With scissors cut out lining 
and seeds. Stand in cold water one-half hour. Drain, fill 
with any cold meat minced fine, a little onion, butter, pep- 
per and salt and a few bread crumbs. Put in baking dish 
with cup of stock or water and bake one-half hour or more. 
Serve hot with tomato sauce. 

CABBAGE AND SAUSAGE (CREAM SAUCE). 

% head white cabbage. 1 tablespoon butter. 

V^ lb. sausage. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 pt. milk. 1 small cup bread crumbs. 
V2 pod red pepper. 

Cut cabbage fine, let stand in cold water one-half hour. 
Put in boiling water and drain after boiling fifteen min- 
utes. Add more water and cook ten minutes. Drain, add 
rounds of sausage fried. Put in baking dish and bake un- 
til seasoned. It may be served in the outer leaves of whole 
cabbage after being steamed. 

94 



EGGS AND BACON WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

6 slices bacon. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup milk. 1/^ teaspoon flour. 

6 hard boiled eggs. Dash cayenne. 

Make sauce with butter, milk and flour. Cook bacon 
crisp, cut eggs in half. Pour sauce over just before serving. 

CAULIFLOWER AND CHEESE. 

1 cauliflower. 1 cup cream sauce. 

1/^ lb. grated cheese. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1/^ teaspoon red pepper. 

Boil cauliflower; when cold cut in pieces. Put in dish 
alternately with cheese and pepper. Pour over this cream 
sauce, add buttered bread crumbs and bake ten minutes. 

CAULIFLOWER AND MUSHROOMS SERVED IN 
GREEN PEPPERS. 

1 head cauliflower. 1 cup cream sauce. 

1 can mushrooms. 8 green peppers. 

Cook cauliflower as directed above. Saute mushrooms 
in butter. Have cup cream sauce ready. Cut cauliflower 
into small pieces, add mushrooms and sauce. Fill green 
peppers, after having put them in hot water for ten min- 
utes. Put in pan and run into oven to season. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH CHEESE. 
After cauliflower has been drained and cut into small 
pieces put layer into dish ; cover with cream sauce, sprinkle 
with cheese, another layer of cauliflower and sauce and 
cheese. Sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs and put in 
oven to brown. 

TOMATOES AND MUSHROOMS. 

.6 tomatoes. 1 onion. 

1 can mushrooms. 1 cup bread crumbs. 

1 cup tomato sauce. 

One can mushrooms sauted in butter. Wash and peel 
six tomatoes ; slice and put layer in baking dish, with alter- 
nate layer of mushrooms. When dish is filled cover with to- 
mato sauce highly seasoned with onion. Cover top with 
buttered bread crumbs and bake brown. 

95 



FRUITS. 

COOKING FRESH FRUIT. 

Pears, apples, peaches, and apricots are cooked in the 
same way. 

TO STEW APPLES. 

Pare, core and cut in halves. Put in sauce pan with 
small quantity of water. Cover and cook until tender, add 
sugar and stir in lightly so as not to break the pieces of 
fruit. More water is necessary for some apples than others. 
When this is the case pour off some before adding sugar. 
If desired slices of lemon can be put with apples. Cinna- 
mon gives them a good flavor. Cook pears and peaches in 
same way. 

TO BAKE FRUIT. 

If fresh fruit is used stew until tender. Put in baking 
dish with enough liquid to season, add sugar and any flavor 
desired, and cook until done. Meringue can be put on this, 
making it good and pretty also. Fruit may be baked in 
custard made from yolks left from meringue. This is de- 
licious. 

PRETTY APPLES. 

Pare and core nice sized apples. Make sirup, using two 
cups sugar and one cup of water. When sirup gets a little 
thick put in apples. Watch carefully, turning with fork 
until tender through. Take from fire, place on platter, when 
cool stick blanched almonds around them and fill cavity with 
cherries and nuts. Cook syrup until it jellies and pour over 
apples. 

Another way — Pare and core, put in hot syrup with 
three tablespoons maple syrup, and after filling the cavity 
with bananas, turn carefully until tender. Remove from 
fire and put one marshmallow on each apple. Run in oven 
to brown marshmallow. Delicious served with meats. 

Apples cooked in syrup and delicately flavored with mint 
extract are lovely to serve with meat — color green. 

96 



PEACHES AND PEARS. 

To use canned fruit, place in syrup after it is ready in 
baking dish, fill cavities with pecans, place marshmallow 
on each piece of fruit and run into stove to season. Serve 
with meat course. Can be used with whipped cream for 
dessert. 

BAKED APPLES STUFFED WITH DATES. 

Steamed or baked apples stuffed with orange and pine- 
apple. 

CINNAMON APPLES. 

6 medium apples, peeled 2 bananas. 

and cored. 1 cup water. 

2 cups sugar. i/^ cup candy cinnamon drops. 

Make Syrup — ^When boiling put in apples stuffed with 
bananas two or three drops — ^then put into syrup, sprinkle 
rest of candy over apples. This makes a lovely pink color 
and gives a delightful flavor. 

Put in crystal dish and serve cold with meat course. 

Ginger may be used instead of bananas. 

SNOW BALL APPLES. 

Pare and core 5 Medium- y^ cup confectioners' sugar, 
sized apples, bake in sauce 10c worth of marshmallows. 
made by cooking. i^ cup boiling water until 

smooth. 

Pour over apples and bake until done. When taken from 
stove, roll in shredded cocoanut and serve cold. 

TO STEW CRANBERRIES. 

Wash one quart of cranberries, add half pint of boiling 
water, cover closely, cook six minutes, stir with wooden 
spoon, press through colander, add one pint sugar; simmer 
ten minutes. Serve hot or cold. When cold it will jell. 

PIE PLANT. 

Wash and scrape, cut in inch pieces, cover with water 
and heat to boiling point. Drain off water, add half as 
much sugar as fruit and cook six or eight minutes. Stew 
gooseberries same way. They require a little more cooking 
than pie plant. 

97 

(7) 



APPLE SNOW. 

3 large tart apples. 3 egg whites. 

y2 cup powdered sugar. 

Stew apples quartered, and when tender strain and mash 
through sieve. Whip eggs dry and stiff, beat in sugar and 
then the apples. Pile on crystal dish, garnish with apple 
jelly and serve with one pint of boiled custard made from 
yolks. 

This can be served with orange or any other flavor and 
garnished with the fruit. 

Apples peeled, cored and filled with preserved ginger, 
orange marmalade, pineapple or cherries, put in baking 
dish with syrup and baked make a lovely dish to serve with 
meats. 

DRIED FRUIT.- 

All dried fruit should be washed well in warm water. 
Soak in cold water until plump in appearance. Some dried 
fruit should be left in water overnight and cooked in water 
in which they are soaked until tender. Sweeten to taste 
and simmer five minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

Prunes should be soaked several hours before cooking. 
Cook dried plums, peaches, apples and apricots same way. 

Pineapple, pears and apples make a nice compote of fruit 
cooked in syrup and served in baking dish. 

PINEAPPLE AND SWEET POTATOES. 

1 can pineapples. 4 sweet potatoes. 

Drain pineapple, cut in small pieces, cook potatoes and 
cut in pieces. Cook juice of pineapple /with one tablespoon 
of butter and one tablespoon of flour until thick, adding 
one-half cup sugar, mix fruit and potatoes in baking dish 
^and pour over this the syrup. Run in stove to season and 
brown. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING. 

2 cups bread crumbs. 4 cups of sweet milk (evap- 
2-3 cups cocoa. orated). 

2 eggs beaten together. 2-3 cups sugar. 

Bake one-half hour in moderate oven. Serve with whip-, 
ped cream. 

98 




MAKING FLOWER PETALS. 



CAKEMAKING. 



In making cake, there are a few important facts to con- 
sider. 

The success depends upon materials used. Always select 
fresh eggs and butter, the best and purest of baking pow- 
der, and a good grade of granulated sugar. Always sift if 
sugar is coarse. If the recipe calls for sweet milk, have it 
fresh; if sour, have thick, good milk. Use the best grade 
of winter wheat flour. Have everything clean and in readi- 
ness when you begin to mix the cake. If in winter, have 
butter warm, but not melted, and keep the temperature of 
the cake the same. Do not let it get chilled or the butter 
mixture will separate. In summer, I find it an excellent 
idea to use a litle crushed ice to put the bowl in after the 
sugar and butter are well blended. I will give directions 
here for mixing the different kinds of cake, and this is fol- 
lowed in all the recipes. 

If it is your desire to have cakes that are proof of your 
skill, or even if your ambition is just to serve simple pala- 
table cakes, you must learn one lesson at the outset — ^no 
part of it can be carelessly done. Measuring, mixing, bak- 
ing, all must have attention — correct, intelligent care is 
necessary — you should know what you are doing and why, 
if you want to be certain of success. Don't think I consider 
cakemaking a formidable undertaking. I do not, but I cer- 
tainly do consider it worth doing well and know from many 
years' experience how small things can ruin big ones. Out 
of this experience I want to give you a hint or two that I 
feel sure will help your future cake baking to success. 

The thing I want to stress first is measuring ingredients- 
Measure everything. If you use a marked measure do so 
carefully. If you use a cup or glass for your measuring, 
be very sure to employ the same size vessel for each in- 
gredient. Two cups are necessary — one for liquids and one 
for dry materials. 

Butter should be cold — cut it in small pieces and fill the 
measuring cup full, biit^do not pack. Flour is sifted, then 
put into cup with spoon. Fill cup to overflowing, then scrape 

99 



off even. Sugar is measureddn the same manner. If milk 
is needed, you cannot, of coitr^, heap up o^l^el down, but 
you can, and many of you dot* underfill the\up. If the , 
recipe calls for a certain amount bf milk, use exactly that,^ 
— no more and no less ; a cupful is a cup filled full. " , 

Powdered material, cinnamon, baking powder, ^^tc, is 
measured by spoonfuls when making things in quantities. 
Your recipe should tell you, and all good ones dof^ whether 
a level, heaping or rounded spoonful is needed. A heaping 
spoon means piling up, every particle the siza spooi^i called 
for will hold. A rounded spoon must be piled fiill, t^n 
shaken gently until the powder is just rounded over the 
'spofen. A level spoon is piled, up and then smoothed off 
even. '^ 

About Eggs. — Either measure or weigh eggs if you wish 
to always get the same results. See table of weights and 
measures on pages 9 and 10. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING WHITE CAKE. 

First get pans ready. Cut white 'or light brown paper 
to fit bottom of pan to be used, brush with melted butter 
on bottom and sides; keep brush for this purpose. Sift 
flour, measure and sift four or five times with baking pow- 
d^. Beat eggs stiff; cream butter; add sugar, and work 
Very light; add alternately the milk, littlfe at a time; the 
flour and whites; then the flavoring. Bake in layers or 
loaves, or large sheets. Turn out^oh linen cloth on firm 
foundation, remove pan an^ paper, leave to cool. 

WHITE CAKE NO. 1. 

2 whites. V4, cup butter. 

34.. cups sugar. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1^ cups flour. V2 cup milk. 

Flavor with vanilla and lemon. 

WHITE CAKE NO. 2. 

3 whites. 2 cups flour. 

y^ cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1^2 cups sugar. 2-3 cup milk. 

Flavor with orange and lemon. 

100 



WHITE CAKE NO. 3. C< 

Whites 4 eggs. 1/2 cupibutter. 

1 cup sugar. 2^2 cups flour. 

Vz cup milk. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Flavor with orange, vanilla and lemon. 



I 



NEVER FALL WHITE CAKE NO. 4. 

5 whites of eggs well beat. 2 cups of sugar. 
V2 cup butter. 3 cups of flour. 

1 cup milk. 8 teaspoons baking powder, 

If you wish a nut cake, add one pound raisins and meat 
of one pound English walnuts mixed and dredged with part 
of the flour. Bake in two layers and when cold pour over 
them the milk of one cocoanut. Grate the cocoanut and 
put the cake together with that and the white icing. The 
yolks of the eggs with the same measure of ingredients can 
be used for a good yellow cake. 

DAISY WHITE CAKE NO. 5. 

6 whites. IM,. cups sugar. 
31/^ cups flour. % cup butter. 

1 cup sweet milk. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Vanilla and orange flavor. Bake in two layers. 

« 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. "^ 

Make six-egg white cake. Flavor with rosewater and ice 
with white icing. Put the following in flUing : 
1 cup raisins cut in pieces, i/^ cup flgs, if liked. 
1 cup pecans or walnuts, 
cut. 

Mix with icing and put between cake. Ice plain and put 
fruit on top of cake. The same kind, only use raisins whole, 
nuts in half and figs in strips. 

GEORGE WASHINGTON CHERRY CAKE. 

% cups butter. 3 cups flour. 

1% cups sugar. 1 cup milk. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 3 level teaspoons baking pow- 
6 eggs, whites. der. 

Add one cup cherries cut in two or three pieces. Bake 
in loaf pan. 

101 



HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 1 cup sweet milk. 

7 egg whites. 3 level teaspoons baking pow- 

3 cups flour. der. 

2 cups sugar. 

One cup hickory nuts cut and dropped in after cake has 
been put in pan. Flavor with vanilla and orange. 



WHITE CAKE NO. 5. 

8 whites. 4 cups flour. 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 
1 cup butter. 1 cup sweet milk. 

3 teaspoons baking pow- 

der. 

Add nuts or cherries to batter if liked. Bake in two 
jelly tins. 

MY FAVORITE CAKE. 

12 whites. 1 lb. sugar. 

y2 lb. butter. 5 level teaspoons baking pow- 

1 cup milk. der. 

1 lb. flour. Lemon, orange and vanilla. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING YELLOW CAKE. 

First sift and measure flour and then sift as in white 
cake with baking i)owder. Beat yolks very, very light ; add 
half of sugar and beat again. Cream butter with the rest 
of the sugar, and then add to this the yolks. Then the milk 
and then the flour, flavoring last. Bake as you would white 
cake layer or loaf. Yellow cakes require a little more heat 
than white cakes. 

ORANGE CAKE. 



3 egg yolks. 


4 level teaspoons baking pow- 


2 whites eggs. 


der. 


2 cups sugar. 


1 orange juice and grated 


%, cup cold water. 


rind. 


31/^ cups flour. 





102 



GOLDEN CAKE. 

1/2 lb. butter. 1 lb. flour. 

1 lb. sugar. 2 round or 4 level teaspoons 
Yolks 12 or 14 eggs baking powder. 

beaten light. 1 teaspoon orange. 

11/4 cups sweet milk. 1 teaspon vanilla. 

Bake in layers or one sheet and put together with orange 
icing. 

YELLOW CAKE. 

8 yolks. 1 cup sweet milk. 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 
% cup butter. 3 teaspons baking powder. 

3 cups flour. Orange flavor. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING POUND CAKES. 

Measure and sift as for other cakes. Beat yolks with 
half the sugar ; beat whites very stiff ; add yolks to creamed 
butter mixed with half of sugar; then milk, flour and 
whites. Blend well and flavor with vanilla. 

CHEAP CAKE FOR SAUCE. 

2 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 
V^ cup butter. V^ cup milk. 

214 cups flour. Orange flavor. 

2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der. 

OLD-FASHIONED POUND CAKE. 

9 large eggs. % lb. butter. 

1 lb. flour (41/^ cups) . Flavor with vanilla. 

2 cups sugar. 

ONE-EGG CAKE. 

l^ cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

14 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon vanilla or lemon. 
Va cup milk. 

MAPLE LAYER CAKE. 

1-8 cake chocolate. 1 teaspoon soda. 

2 cups maple sugar. ' 2 eggs. 

14 cup butter. 1 cup buttermilk. 

21/2 cups flour. 

Melt chocolate over hot water. Dissolve soda in butter- 
milk; cream butter and sugar; add eggs, milk and flour; 
mix well ; fold in melted chocolate last. Bake in two layers. 

103 



MAPLE FILLING. 

ly^ cups maple sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

^ cup sweet milk. 

Boil until it spins thread. Take from fire, beat until 
cold. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Melt chocolate in double boiler. Measure and sift flour 
as many times as you would for white and yellow cakes. 
Mix beaten yolks with sugar to butter creamed with sugar. 
After adding flour and whites flavor and add chocolate last. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

3 eggs beaten separately. 3 level teaspoons baking 
3y2 cups flour. powder. 

1% cups sugar. 1/4 lb. cholcolate melted over 

1 cup sweet milk. hot water with 

1 scant cup butter. 1 tablespoonf ul of vanilla. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR MAKING CHOCOLATE 
CREAM CAKE. 

In measuring butter by cups, cut the butter in little par- 
ticles while cold and fill the measuring cup with the par- 
ticles. Creain the butter and add to it one cupful of the 
sugar. Beat the yolks very, very light and add to them the 
remainder of the sugar. Now mix these two combina- 
tions of ingredients. To this mixture add the flour and 
the beaten whites of eggs, in alternation, as given in the 
general directions, blending in the chocolate and flavoring 
last. 

FILLING FOR CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sweet 1 teaspoon butter. 

cream. 1 tablespoon each of cocoa and 

1 cup XXXX sugar. vanilla. 

Mix thoroughly, put over a vessel of hot water and stir 
to a smooth cream. Let cool a little before spreading on 
cake, or it will run. 

104 



DEVIL'S FOOD OR CHOCOLATE. 

2 eggs beaten separately. Va cup butter. 
2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon soda dissolved 

31/^ cups flour. in milk. 

1 cup buttermilk. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
l^ cake chocolate. Flavor with vanilla. 

ONE-EGG CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 1 cup sweet milk. 

1 cup sugar. 3 tablespoons cocoa or 

1 egg. grated chocolate. 

2 level teaspoons cinna- 2 cups flour. 

mon. V2 teaspoon soda. 

1 level teaspoon each cloves 1 teaspon cream tartar. 

and allspice. Bake in sheet; cover with 

14 nutmeg grated. icing. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE WITH POTATOES. 

2-3 cup butter. 1/2 cup sweet milk. 

2 cups sugar. 2 cups flour. 

4 eggs (whole). 2 rounding spoons baking 

1 cup hot mashed potatoes. powder. 

2 squares melted chocolate. 

Add potatoes to butter, sugar and yolks creamed. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING FRUIT CAKES. 

Get fruit ready the day before, and pour over wine or 
grape juice. Have almonds blanched and ground and pour 
over a tablespoonful of rosewater. Measure spices, put in 
cordial, add to this jelly, but do not stir after jelly is added. 
Have flour browned in oven, cooled and measured. 

Cream butter and half sugar and beat yolks light with 
the other half. Add these to butter, then put in cordial, 
jelly and spices; alternately add whites stiffly beaten and 
one-half of flour, then chocolate. Sift flour over top layer 
of fruit, add to batter, sift again and so on until all the 
fruit has been added. Put in nuts. 

First line your pans with two layers of heavy brown 
paper cut to flt. Take strips of paper the depth of pans 
and carefully line all sides. Brush paper with fresh melted 
butter. You may have a little trouble in fitting the side 
strips smoothly; if so, slash them just enough to get a per- 
fect fit. 

105 



The pans are now ready for batter, which, of course, 
should be all mixed. Put this in pans with spatula and 
smooth in place. When pan is full, decorate top with nuts 
and fruit. Place pan on steel or iron griddle and put in 
oven of gas stove. Fix the rack nearly four inches from 
bottom of stove and under the rack put a pan of hot water. 
As this water only serves to keep some moisture in the 
air inside the stove, it need only be a small vessel. Two 
small hot water pans may be used if you like. Turn the 
blaze very low and keep it so. 

If you haven't a gas stove, of course, use a range. Put 
cake pan on griddle and set on bottom of stove with small 
pan of hot water on the side. Or you can set the griddle 
in a pan containing a small amount of hot water. 

When the cake is in and the stove started, shut the door 
and do not disturb it for one hour. Your cake must stay 
for sixty minutes absolutely untouched so it can season. 
After this it may be turned occasionally. From two and 
one-half to four hours are required for perfect baking. This 
depends on size of cake. 

When you think the cake is done run a straw from top 
straight through to bottom. If particles of batter adhere, 
leave it a while longer, but watch carefully. When done, 
remove from stove and leave in pan until almost cold. Then 
while the cake is still slightly warm, run knife around edge 
to loosen thoroughly from pan and turn out. Two or more 
cakes can be baked at once, as they never bum if care is 
taken, and care surely must be taken; but if the instruc- 
tions I am giving you are followed, success will be yours. 
You will be repaid for your trouble by having a soft, deli- 
cious fruit cake that any housekeeper should be proud to 
offer guests and family as proof of her skill. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

2 lbs. seeded raisins. 1 small bottle maraschino 

V^ lb. citron. cherries and juice. 

1/^ lb. dates. V2 lb. butter. 

V^ cup plum jelly. % lb. flour, browned and 

y^ cup strawberry pre- sifted with — 

serves. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

V^ cup cherries. 8 eggs. 

' 1 pound sugar. 

106 



PRESIDENT'S FRUIT CAKE. 
12 eggs. 1/2 teaspoon nutmeg. 

1 lb. sugar (2 cups). 1 lb. butter (2 cups). 

5 lbs. raisins. 1 lb. flour (41/2 cups). 

1 glass grape jelly. 1 lb. home-made citron. 

1 lb. crystallized cherries. 1 tablespoon of melted 

1 lb. crystallized pineapple. chocolate. 

l^ lb. orange paste. 1/2 teaspoon allspice. 

1 lb. blanched and ground 1/2 cup cordial mixed with 
almonds. spices. 

1 lb. pecans. 1 cup grape juice. 

1 tablespoon cinnamon. f 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING SPICE CAKES. 
When whole eggs are used, mix as for pound cake ; when 
yolks only, mix as yellow cakes; add spices to batter and 
then fruit if used. 



1 cup butter. 


1 cup blackberry jam. 


2 cups sugar. 


1 teaspoon cinnamon. 


1/2 cup sour milk. 


l^ teaspoon allspice. 


3 eggs. 


1/2 teaspoon nutmeg. 


1 teaspoon soda. 


4 cups flour. 


Bake in two layers. 


Ice with seafoam icing. 



STRAWBERRY JAM CAKE. 

3 eggs. 21/^ cups flour. 

% cup butter. 1 teaspoon soda. 

% cup jam. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

1-3 cup buttermilk. 

Cream the butter and half of sugar. Color pink with 
color paste. Beat yolks light with the other half cup su- 
gar; add to butter and sugar. Put soda in milk; add with 
a little flour, and then the whites and rest of flour, then 
cinnamon. Lastly fold in the jam. Bake in layers or one 
sheet. Cover with white or green icing and mark in squares. 
Put a fresh strawberry on each square if in season. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

S eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup flour. Juice of i/^ lemon. 

Beat yolks light, add juice of lemon and half the sugar. 
Beat whites with pinch of salt, when light add half of sugar. 
Mix whites and yolks then cut flour in lightly. Bake in 
either loaf or layers in moderate oven. 

107 



ROOSEVELT SPICE CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 4 eggs. 

2 cups sugar. 4 cups flour. 

1 cup milk. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. i/^ teaspoon nutmeg. 

Bake in loaf or two layers. 

IMPROVED LADY McMILLIN CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 2 rounded or 4 level tea- 

2 cups sugar. spoons baking powder. 

Whites and yolks 6 eggs 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 
or 12 yolks beaten very 1 tablespoon (heaping) co- 
light, coa. 
1 cup sweet milk. i^ teaspoon nutmeg. 
5 cups flour. 1 cup blackberry jam. 

14 cup cordial. 
Cream butter, add half sugar to butter; beat very light. 
Beat yolks light with rest of sugar. Sift flour several times 
with baking powder, and add alternately with milk and 
whites. Mix spices and cocoa with cordial; add to batter; 
gently stir in jam last. 

SPICE CAKE. 
1 cup butter. 1 teaspoon soda. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs beaten together. 

3 cups flour. 1 rounding teaspoon cinna- 
1 scant cup of molasses. mon. 

1 cup buttermilk. 1 scant teaspoon nutmeg. 

WAR CAKE. 
2 cups brown sugar. 2 cups hot water. 

2 tablespoons lard. 1 lb. raisins. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Boil all together five minutes after it bubbles. When 
cold add 3V^ cups sifted flour with i/^ teaspoon baking pow- 
der. Add one level tablespoon soda dissolved in tablespoon 
hot water. Bake in two loaves. 

EGOLESS CAKE. 

2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon nutmeg. 

Yz cup fat ; pinch salt. 1 lb. raisins seeded and cut. 

4 cups flour. 3 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups buttermilk. dissolved in 1 tablespoon 

2 teaspoons cinnamon. of boiling water, 

14 teaspoon allspice. 

Flavor with orange and vanilla blended. 

108 



CHEAP SPICE CAKE. 

5 whole eggs. 2 tablespoons cocoa. 
2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon nutmeg. 

4 cups flour. 1 cup of strawberry or 

4 level teaspoons baking blackberry jam. 

powder. % cup of fat. 

1 cup sweet milk. % cup cordial. 
1 tablespoon cinnamon. 

Dissolve spices in cordial. Mix as any other cake, add- 
ing jam last. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING SPONGE CAKES. 
In making angel and sunshine cake, sift flour five tinres 
before measuring. Have bowl perfectly dry before beating 
whites. Have eggs cold and especially fresh for these 
cakes. Add pinch salt to whites. This toughens the fibre 
and helps retain the air, as the lightness of sponge cake 
depends mainly on the amount of air beaten into the eggs. 
Always fold in the flour; never beat after flour is added. 
When salt is added, beat whites until creamy. Add cream 
tartar and beat stiff; gently stir in the sugar, and then 
fold in flour. In sunshine, after the sugar has been added, 
put in yolks beaten light; then flour and flavoring. Bake 
these as you would layer cakes. I light my stove for all 
cakes when ready for oven if gas range is used. It requires 
from forty to forty-flve minutes to bake the above cakes. 
When taken from oven must cool in pan inverted. There 
are pans sold especially for these delicate cakes for twenty- 
five cents. It pays to have them. Never grease them as 
you do pans for butter cakes. Some sponge cakes have 
baking powder. Then you would sift as for white cake. 
But always fold flour in last. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

12 eggs beaten slowly, but 1 cup flour after sifting sev- 

not too stiff and dry. eral times. 

iy2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon cream tartar. 

Pinch of salt. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Whites of 7 large or 8 1 teaspoon orange. 

small eggs, yolks of 5. 1 cup flour, measured after 
1 cup sifted sugar. sifting 3 times. 

1 scant teaspoon cream tar- 
tar. 

109 



FRUIT SPONGE CAKE. 

7 eggs. 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

1^ cups sugar. 1 teaspoon lemon and va- 

3 cups flour. nilla. 

l^ teacup cold water. 
Bake in two layers. 

FILLING. 

1 minced orange. 1 can pineapple chopped fine. 

1 banana — sliced. y% cup sugar. 

Juice 1/^ lemon. 

Ice on top with the following icing: Take syrup of 
pineapple, boil with sugar, allowing two cups to one of juice, 
break two eggs to each cup of sugar, beat whiles stiff, when 
syrup cooks thick and threads, pour gradually over the 
eggs ; cook over steam to the right consistency to ice cake. 
Delicious. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

5 eggs. 1 heaping teaspoon baking 

1 cup sugar. powder sifted with flour 

1 cup water. 5 times. 

1% cups flour. Flavor to taste. 

Cook sugar with water until it is a thick syrup. Let 
cool and pour over well beaten yolks of eggs. Fold in flour, 
then the beaten whites, and flavor. Bake quickly in layers 
or in a sheet. 

WAR TIME SPONGE CAKE. 

Yolks of 6 eggs. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 cup sugar. V^ cup boiling water. 

11/^ cups flour. 

Beat eggs and sugar very lightly together, add boiling 
water and then beat into the mixture the flour that has 
been sifted several times with the baking powder. Flavor 
with orange. 

CREAM FILLING FOR SPONGE CAKE. 

1 pint sweet milk, put on to 1/2 cup of sugar. 

boil. 1 heaping tablesjwon of 

2 eggs. flour. 

Beat these last three well together. Just as the milk 
comes to a boil stir in one tablespoonful of butter and then 
the above mixture. Stir constantly until the cream thick- 
ens like mush. When cold, flavor to taste. Split the layers 
and fill. 

110 



SPONGE JELLY ROLL. 

Make a light sponge cake. Turn out on clean napkin. 
Spread with any kind of marmalade or jelly and roll up 
with napkin, turning back cloth each roll. Serve with 
foamy sauce. 

ORANGE ROLL. 

Make light sponge roll. Spread with orange cream, 
three oranges, pulp and juice, two cups confectioners' su- 
gar, one tablespoon butter. Stir over steam until creamy 
and put on roll while hot. Serve with orange sauce. 

"BRIDE'S CAKE." 

15 whites. 5 ieaspoons baking powder 

2 cups sugar. sifted 5 times with 1 lb, 

1/2 Ih. butter (1 cup). of flour. 

1 cup sweet milk. Almond and vanilla. 

WHITE CAKE. 

14 whites. 1/2 lb- butter. 

1 lb. sugar. i/^ teaspoon soda. 

1 lb. flour. 1 teaspoon cream tartar. 
1 cup sweet milk. Vanilla and orange. 

Cream Soda with butter ; sift cream tartar with flour. 

SMALL CONFECTIONS— SNOW BALLS. 

4 whites. Vz cup com starch. 
V^ cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1-3 cup butter. V2 cup sweet milk. 

1 cup flour. 

Cream butter and sugar, add gradually milk, flour and 
eggs. Put batter in six well buttered cups and steam one- 
half hour. Turn out, roll in powdered sugar, and serve with 
tutti frutti sauce. 

BROWNIES. 

11/2 cup brown sugar. 2 eggs beaten very light. 

1 scant cup butter. 2 tablespoons of buttermilk. 

2 cups flour. 1 scant teaspoon of soda. 
2 teaspoons cinnamon. 1 cup chopped dates. 

1/2 cup nuts. 

Drop in greased pan and bake. 

1» 



COCOA FRUIT COOKIES. 

2-3 cup butter. 1 full teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

2 cups flour. 1 cup pecans chopped. 
1/4 cup cocoa. 1 cup dates. 

1 scant teaspoon soda. 

Cream butter, add sugar, sift the flour, cocoa, soda and 
cinnamon ; to the butter and sugar add the well-beaten eggs 
and flour, then dates and pecans. Drop by spoonfuls into 
a well-greased biscuit pan and cook in moderate oven. 

ENGLISH SHORT CAKE. 
Rub into one pound of flour four onces butter, four 
ounces powdered sugar, one egg and two spoonfuls cream 
enough to make a paste. Put currants into one-half and 
caraway seeds into other. Roll thin, cut into biscuits. Bake 
fifteen minutes. 

CRULLERS. 
4 eggs. 10 oz. sugar. 

11/^ lb. flour. 14 tablespoon grated nutmeg. 

l^ lb. butter. 14 teaspoon salt. 

Shortening enough to float the cakes. Beat yolks of 
eggs well, add sugar, salt and butter rubbed into part of 
the flour; add whites of eggs and sugar, making a stiff 
dough. Knead smooth after adding nutmeg. Slit like a 
gridiron with a sharp knife and run your fingers under 
every alternate strip, pressing the ridge toward one comer. 
Drop or lay on egg beater or croquette basket in boiling, 
shortening until pale brown. Lift out carefully, sprinkle 
with granulated sugar and drain on paper or cloth. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup milk. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoons of fat. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Flour enough to roll. Flavor with nutmeg and fry in 
hot fat. Use the small centers for balls. 

PECAN COOKIES. 
1/2 cup butter. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup chopped pecans. 

1 cup sweet milk. 3V^ cups flour. 

Drop on greased paper in pan and cook as tea cakes. 

112 







1 '" '''1hl3fi"j^''^'^^^^% "^^^■^=*'i^^ \ 




^fc- '"^^^^tel' 


IS 




^i^^^^^~ 


-,?:'% 




^fe^^^fe; 






^^p 


'^ ^fff^t^ "- 4*' ■*»■ ''''.L.^^'.-'-X^ 


1 ■''-'.■ 



ENGLISH COOKIES. 

2 whole eggs or 4 yolks 2 cups flour with 2 tea- 
beaten very light. spoons baking powder. 

1 cup sugar. % cup grape juice with 2 tea- 
% cup butter. spoons cinnamon and i/? 

teaspoon cloves. 
To this batter add one cup chopped raisins, three-quar- 
ters cup chopped pecans. Mix all well and bake in gem 
rings. 

LITTLE CAKES. 

2 eggs whipped very light. 1/2 cup sweet milk. 

% cup butter. 2 cups flour with 2 teaspoons 

1 cup sugar creamed well baking powder, 

with butter. 

Flavor with lemon or vanilla, mix well and bake in gem 
pans. 

OAT MEAL DROP COOKIES. 



% cup butter. 




1 level teaspoon baking 


1 cup white sugar. 




powder. 


l^ cup sweet milk. 




1 level teaspoon cinnamon. 


2 cups Quaker oats. 




X level teaspoon nutmeg. 


114 cups flour. 




1/^ teaspoon cloves. 


2 eggs. 




1 cup seeded raisins cut fine. 


1 level teaspoon salt. 




1/2 cup hickory nuts. 


Drop in buttered baking 


pan in spoonfuls some distance 


apart. If dough spreads too much add more flour. 




TEA CAKES. 



3 eggs. 3 level teaspoons baking pow- 
2-3 cup butter or y^ cup der. 

fat. 3 cups flour sifted 3 times 
2 cups sugar. with powder. 

Beat eggs light, add sugar, then softened butter. Mix 
into flour and add enough flour to roll into soft dough. Roll 
thin, sprinkle with sugar, and cut with fancy cutter. Bake 
in quick oven. 

ALMOND CAKE. 
V2 pound almonds, blanch- Whites 5 eggs. 

ed, browned and i/^ pound sugar (2 cups). 

ground. 
Beat whites stiflf, add sugar and then almonds. Drop 
in greased pan. Bake in stove oven. Make in sheets and 
put together with whipped cream. 

113 

(8) 



EOLLED WAFERS. 
3 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

1 full tablespoon butter. 1 pint flour. 

Beat yolks and sugar together, add whites beaten stiff. 
Then flour, put a small spoonful in wafer iron, cook and roll 
while hot. 

BREAD CRUMB CAKES. 
1 cup sugar. 1 large cup flour. 

1-3 cup shortening. 14 teaspoon soda. 

1/4 cup sour milk. y2 teaspoon cinnamon. 

14 cup raisins or dates. IV^ cups bread crumbs. 
Mix and drop in spoonful on greased tins. If desired 
add V^ cup of nuts. — (From Little Rock.) 

GINGER CAKES. 
Mammy^s Ginger Cakes. 

2 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 
1/^ cup buttermilk. i/2 cup fat. 

1/4 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons soda. 

1 pt. molasses. 1 tablespoon ginger. 

Rub with yolks of eggs; roll thin, cut with cake cutter 
and bake. 

FUDGE CAKE. 

1 cup of sugar. 2 eggs beaten together. 
l^ cup of butter. 2 squares of chocolate. 
1 cup of flour. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Pinch of salt. ^4 pound pecans dr black wal- 

nuts. 
Grease biscuit pan and bake in moderate oven. Cut in 
squares. 

JUMBLES. 

3 eggs. 3 tablespoons sweet milk. 

2 cups sugar. 3 cups flour sifted with 3 tea- 
% cup butter or fat. spoons baking powder. 

Roll thin, add more flour to keep from sticking, sprinkle 
with ground almonds and sugar and bake quickly. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 
1/2 cup butter. 2 eggs. 

1 cup molasses. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

y2 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

3 cups flour. 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon. 
1/^ cup milk. 

Make and bake as cake, serve hot with sauce. 

114 




NO. 1. FIRST POSITION IN MAKING TUBE. 




NO. 2. SECOND POSITION IN MAKING TUBE. 




NO. 3. MADE TUBE. 




NO. 4. PLACE IN WHICH TO PIN TUBE. 




NO. 5. CUTTING THE TUBE. 




NO. 6. FINISHED TUBES. SHOWING CUTTINGS. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



BOILED CUSTARD. 

1 pint milk. 3 egg yolks. 

Pinch salt. 1 cup sugar. 

1 teaspoon butter. 1 tablespoon com starch. 

Put milk in double boiler, add salt and butter. Mix 
corn starch with a little cold milk. When milk is ready 
to boil stir in com starch, then the yolks that have been 
well beaten with sugar. Cook until thick ; add whites beaten 
stiff just before taking off fire or pour over them and fold 
into the custard. This is good without whites and a nice 
way to use yolks. Fruit may be added to this or served in 
glasses over fruit. 

This is a good foundation for com starch pudding, cabi- 
net pudding, using double quantity of corn starch. Make 
meringue of whites. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Two eggs beaten with two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
then added to one pint of scalded milk. Flavor with va- 
nilla. Bake for one-half hour or until it will no longer coat 
a knife blade. 

MARY'S PUDDING. 

Make boiled custard, using yolks only. One cup seeded 
raisins ; one cup home-made citron cut in small strips ; one- 
half pound lady fingers or pieces of stale cake. Line a 
buttered mold with the cake, then layer of raisins and 
citron, another of cake and so on until it is filled. Pour 
over this the custard. Set in pan of hot water and put in 
oven to* season and make firm. Serve with home-made 
wine sauce. 

FOR BREAD PUDDING. 

Fill a pudding dish with thin slices of buttered bread 
into which raisins have been pressed. Pour custard mix- 
ture over and bake. 

121 



LEMON PUDDING. 

8 egg yolks. 1/4 lb. butter. 

1 lb. sugar. Juice of 3 lemons. 

Put all in double boiler. Cook until consistency of 
cream. Line bowl with lady fingers, pour pudding over 
them. Make meringue of whites and put over top. Brown 
a light color in oven. Whipped cream may be used instead. 
This makes a delicious filling for cake. 

GINGER PUDDING. 



3 eggs. 


1/2 cup buttermilk. 


4 cups flour. 


11/2 teaspoons ginger. 


1 cup brown sugar. 


1 lb. raisins. 


1 cup butter. 


1/2 lb. citron. 


1 cup molasses. 


14 lb. almonds. 



Stir one teaspoon soda which has been dissolved in hot 
water into milk, beat this with molasses ; add molasses and 
milk while foaming to yellows, sugar and butter; then one 
and a half tablespoons ginger ; spice to taste, then flour and 
whites alternately. Batter must be very stiff. 

Flour raisins and citron, cut fine. Blanched almonds 
cut fine. Mix all with batter; put into buttered molds, not 
too full, and steam two or three hours. Serve with hot 
sauce. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

One quart milk, three tablespoons com starch dissolved 
in cold water, yolks five eggs beaten light with six table- 
spoons sugar. Boil three or four minutes until thick, pour 
in dish and bake half hour. Beat whites stiff with six 
tablespoons sugar; put on top and brown. 

CONTINENTAL PUDDING. 
y^ cup butter. IV^ cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

3 eggs beaten well. 1 teaspoon nutmeg. 

y^ cup buttermilk. 1 cup jam or preserves. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Bake in pan. Serve with caramel sauce. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 
Caramel one cup sugar, add one cup boiling water, sim- 
mer gently ten minutes. Add one teaspoonful butter, one 
teaspoonful vanilla. 

122 



CREAM PUFFS. 

1 pint water. 4 oz. pastry flour. 

2 oz. butter. 4 eggs. 

Put water and butter over fire; when boiling, add 
quickly the flour; beat until smooth. Take from fire and 
let cool. Beat into this one egg at a time, mix and beat 
thoroughly. Drop by spoonful into a greased pan ; bake in 
moderate oven forty minutes. 

Filling For Cream. Puffs. 

y% pint milk. 3 tablespoon^ sugar. 

1 tablespoon corn starch. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 
3 egg yolks. 

Cook over hot water. Let cool and fill puffs. Split on 
sides. Add chocolate to this mixture to make a change; 
also pecans or hickory nuts. 

SPICE PUDDING. 

1 cup butter. i/^ teaspoon nutmeg. 

3 cups flour. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup buttermilk. 1 cup molasses (New Or- 

2 eggs beaten together. leans). 

1 level teasiK)on cinnamon. 1 teaspoon soda. 

Serve with hot sauce. 

EGOLESS SHORTCAKE. 

2-3 cup milk. 4 level teaspoons baking pow- 

2 scant tablespoons but- der. 

ter. Flour to make soft dough. 

2 tablespoons sugar dis- 
solved in milk. ' 

Roll out not too thin and bake in cake pan, not too hard. 
When cool and just before serving place sweetened berries 
between. Serve with whipped cream. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
Put three tablespoonfuls of granulated tapioca in a pint 
of cold milk in the double boiler. When the tapioca is trans- 
parent (in about twenty minutes) add four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and one beaten egg. Cook five or six minutes 
longer till thick and take from the fire. Flavor with va- 
nilla or lemon. May be made the day before. 

123 



DELICIOUS JAM PUDDING. 

1 cup jam. 1 cup sugar. 

V2 cup butter. 4 eggs. 

Bake in stone dish fifteen minutes. Serve hot with 
whipped cream. 

FIG PUDDING. 

1 lb. figs chopped fine 3 eggs. 

and fiavored. 1 cup sweet milk. 

1/2 lb. suet. 1 cup maraschino cherry 
1/^ lb. bread crumbs. juice. 

1/^ lb. sugar. 

Mix eggs, sugar and milk, then bread crumbs, then suet 
and figs. Add one teaspoon baking powder. Steam in large 
mold or in individuals. Steam for two and a half hours 
and serve hot with rich sauce. 

JOHNNIE'S DELIGHT. 
(Cheap Plum Pudding.) 

2 cups stale bread crumbs, i/i cup chopped beef suet. 
1 cup molasses. 1 cup raisins. 

1 cup milk (sweet) . V^ cup flour. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 1 egg. 

y^ teasiwon cloves. 14 teaspoon soda. 

V^ teaspoon nutmeg. 

Mix well and steam three hours. Leave three or four 
inches in can for dough to rise. Serve with hot sauce. 

BISHOP WHIPPLE PUDDING. 

1 cup chopped nuts — ^pe- 2-3 cup flour. 

cans best. 2 eggs. 

1 cup chopped dates. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
1^ cup sugar. 

Mix as cake, except beat whites and yolks together and 
bake in biscuit pan. Break in pieces while hot and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Bake sponge cake in sheet; cut into two pieces. Put a 
layer of sliced orange sections between, sprinkle with su- 
gar, cover with meringue and put in oven to brown. 

124 



SOUTHERN BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 
1 qt. blackberries. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 cup flour. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

Dip berries in water, then in flour in which the baking 
powder has been sifted. Put into cheesecloth bag, drop 
into boiling water and cook for thirty minutes. Serve with 
following sauce: 

Sauce. 
1 cup sugar. Several teaspoons cream. 

% cup butter. 

Mix together and pour over pudding. Serve hot. 

BREAD PUDDING. 
3 eggs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 qt. milk. A little lemon and nut- 

1 heaping pint bread meg. 

crumbs. Pinch salt. 

IV^ cups sugar or to taste. 

Soak crumbs until soft and measure, add yolks and 
beat until light, then add other ingredients. Bake until 
custard sets, then make meringue of whites, with a table- 
spoon sugar to each white. Bake to a light brown, spread 
with jelly and put meringue on top. 

CARAMEL PUDDING. 

6 tablespoons white sugar, 3 tablespoons sugar. 

browned to syrup in V^ cup milk. 

iron saucepan. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

3 eggs beaten together. 

Beat together, pour sauce in six cups and the mixture 
over it. Set in pan of hot water; cook twenty minutes. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

1 qt. milk. 1 tablespoon grated choco- 

5 eggs. late. 

10 tablespoons bread 1 cup sugar. 

crumbs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Scald milk, add bread crumbs and sugar; cook five min- 
utes. Take from fire and pour over the grated chocolate. 
Stir until dissolved. It will take about ten minutes. Add 
vanilla to taste. Add butter, then the well-beaten eggs; 
bake until firm in a pan of water. When done, cool and 
chill. Serve with whipped cream. 

125 



MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 
Soak one-half box of gelatine in one-half pint of cold 
water fifteen minutes. Pour over this one-half pint of boil- 
ing water; stir on stove until gelatine is thoroughly dis- 
solved. Beat whites of four eggs stiff and dry. Add one 
scant cup of sugar. When gelatine is cool beat gradually 
into eggs. Flavor with anything you like, though vanilla 
is always good. Divide this color one-half pink or green. 
Put filling between two layers — nuts, cherries, any fruit 
you want. Line a mold or pan with oil paper and set in ice 
to ripen. Serve with whipped cream sweetened and flavored. 

. ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

6 eggs beaten very light. 2 tablespoons fresh lemon 

2 cups brown sugar. juice. 

% lb. beef suet or butter. To this add — 

i/i lb. bread crumbs. 1 lb. Sultana raisins. 

% lb. flour. 1 lb. seeded raisins. 

y% cup sweet milk, 1 lb. currants. 

y% cup maraschino cherries.i/^ lb. pecans. 

Dissolve in cherry juice. 1 lb. home-made citron, or- 
14 teaspoon cloves. ange paste, pineapple 

2 teaspoons cinnamon. and cherries. 

1 teaspoon nutmeg. 

Mix all well, put in well-greased quart buckets, steam 
three or four hours. Serve with sauce. 

CHRISTMAS PLUMB PUDDING. 



2 lbs. currants. 




1 lb. beef suet or butter. 


2 lbs. raisins. 




y% lb. bread crumbs. 


14 lb. citron. 




1 cup molasses. 


1/2 lb. almonds. 




1 cup maraschino juice. 


1/^ lb. cherries. 




1 tablespoon salt (if suet is 


1/4 lb, pecans. 




used). 


1 lb. brown sugar. 




2 teaspoons cinnamon. 


1 lb. browned flour. 




y^ teaspoon cloves. 


8 whole eggs. 




1 grated nutmeg. 


2 teaspoons baking 


pow- 


I 


der sifted with flour. 





Mix suet and sugar well together, then molasses, eggs 
and crumbs. Add fruit last. Steam for three hours in 
well-buttered one-pound baking powder cans. This will 
make eight. Serve with this brown sugar sauce with wine. 

126 



BLACKBERRY JAM PUDDING. 

1 cup sugar. 1/2 cup blackberry jam. 

1 heaping tablespoon but- 2 tablespoons flour. 

ter. 1/2 cup cream. 

2 eggs beaten separately. 

Cream butter, add sugar, add yolks, then jam. Beat 
well, add flour, cream and jam. Bake forty-five minutes. 

APPLE JELLY SAUCE FOR FRUIT PUDDING. 

2 egg whites. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

y2 glass apple jelly. 

Beat eggs stiff with sugar, add jelly and beat all until 
very light. 

CHERRY SAUCE. 

2 heaping cups of sugar. 1 pint boiling water. 

1 tablespoon corn starch 1 cup mashed cherries. 

mixed with sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Cook until smooth and thick. Serve hot. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

2 eggs. 1 lemon. 

1 cup sugar. , 1 cup grated apple. 

Beat the yolks and sugar, add rind and juice of lemon, 
then the beaten whites and the apple gradually. Cook three 
minutes over boiling water, stirring constantly. 

HARD SAUCE. 

V^ cup butter. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

2 cups powdered sugar. 

Cream butter until very light, gradually add sugar, then 
flavoring, and lastly whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. 

FOAMY SAUCE. 

y2 cup butter. V2 cup boiling water. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 1 egg white beaten stiff. 

2 tablespoons vanilla. 

Cream butter and sugar, add vanilla. Just before seiTv- 
ing add boiling water, stir well, then add whites, beat all 
into foam and serve at once. 

127 



WINE SAUCE. 
1 cup sugar. 1/4 cup butter. 

Cream sugar and butter well. Put over hot water and 
add one-half cup home-made wine. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

1 cup white sugar. 1 teaspoon butter if you use 
ll^ cups rich milk or cream. milk without cream. 

l^ cake chocolate. 

Put milk, sugar and chocolate in double boiler. Cook 
until smooth. Flavor with vanilla. 

MERINGUE SAUCE. 

3 egg whites. 1 cup water. 

11/2 cups sugar. Vanilla to taste. 

Cook syrup until it threads, pour over stiffly-beaten 
whites; add flavoring. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

2 cups XXXX sugar. 1^ cup butter. 
Juice of 2 oranges, grated 4 egg whites. 

rind of one. 

Cream butter and sugar, add two tablespoons cream, 
stir over hot water until well blended. Add orange and 
grated rind. If you want cold sauce, add the beaten whites 
after cooling; if hot, add at once. Pineapple and lemon 
sauce may be made the same way. 

YELLOW SAUCE. 

3 egg yolks beaten light. 1 tablespoon com starch. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon butter, 

2 cups sweet milk. 

Flavor with vanilla and orange. Cook as a custard. 
Serve hot. 

TUTTI FRUTTI SAUCE. 

8 tablespoons cream. 1 cup raisins. 

1/2 cup butter. 1 cup pineapple and cherries. 

2 cups light brown sugar. 1 cup nuts. 

Serve cold as hard sauce or hot as desired. 

128 



PUFF PASTE. 

2 cups flour. 1/2 cup ice water. 

1 cup butter. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Wash butter well. Take out one tablespoon, put the 
rest in refrigerator. Sift salt with flour, put in tablespoon 
butter. With the tips of fingers mix into stiff dough with 
ice water. Knead until smooth. Roll out into oblong pieces. 
Put the rest of butter in the center, fold sides and ends 
over the butter. Let stand ten minutes, roll again with 
light quick strok'es. Fold the ends to center and then fold 
again. Turn and roll as before, always letting it stand be- 
tween rolling. 

After rolling several times cut into shape, chill, and 
bake in hot oven. This can be cut in rounds one-fourth 
inch thick, put two rounds together, cut out center of top 
with smaller cutter. Use this for top after the cases are 
filled with creamed meats or vegetables. 

CREAM PASTRY FOR ROLLS, DUMPLINGS AND 
SOME FRUIT PIES. 

1 pint flour. i/| cup butter and fat mixed. 

1 spoon salt. Sweet milk enough to 

2 spoons powder. make soft dough. 
1 tablespoon sugar. 

POTATO PASTRY. 

1 cup potatoes (Irish). Pinch salt. 

1 cup flour sifted. 

Cook potatoes and thoroughly mash and mix with flour 
while warm. Roll out in rounds, fill with blackberries and 
drop in boiling hot water for thirty minutes. Serve with 
rich sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Cut pastry in rounds with saucer. Cut apples in pieces ; 
put in center, with sugar, a lump of butter, little cinnamon 
or lemon juice. Bring the dough over the fruit and press 
together in middle. ^ Fill pan with "these, sprinkle with su- 
gar and butter, pour over water enough to make a syrup. 
Cook until done. Serve with hard butter sauce flavored 
with sherry or vanilla. All fruit may be used this way. 
Combination fruit sometimes makes delicious dumplings. 

129 

(9) 



PLAIN PASTRY. 

Pastry for one custard or pie: 

1 cup flour. y% teaspoon salt and a little 

2 tablespoons fat or butter. sugar. 

Sift flour, salt and sugar, cut in shortening with knife. 
Mix lightly with ice water. Fold and chill. 

SMALL BERRY ROLL. 

Make one pint of flour into cream pastry, roll thin, spread 
with strawberries,, blackberries or raspberries. Sprinkle 
with sugar and butter and roll all together. Put in pan, 
sprinkle top with sugar, bits of butter and add water enough 
to make plenty of juice. Cook in oven until well done and 
make a little extra sauce if there is not plenty of juice, 
then roll is ready to serve. 

CUSTARD FOR PIES. 

3 egg yolks. i/4 teaspoon salt. 
2-3 cup sugar. 2 cups milk. 

1 full tablespoon com 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

starch. 

Heat milk, beat yolks very light, add sugar and corn 
starch, beat again, mix with a little hot milk and add to 
rest of milk. Cook until thick, stirring all the time. Line 
pan with pastry and bake crust until set. "Pour in custard 
and bake brown. For cocoanut, add one cup grated co- 
coanut. / 

Sliced bananas may be used in thisi custard, making de- 
licious banana pie, 

Chocolate custard made also by adding one-fourth pound 
Baker's chocolate and two tablespoons butter. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD. 

2 eggs. ^Butter size of an egg. 

1 cup sugar. Half of a small can of grated 

1 cup waterj pineapple. 

2 tablespoons corn starch. 

Put on water, sugar, butter and corn starch ; when thick, 
add yolks well beaten; when this is thick stir in pineapple. 
Have crust already baked. Can use same for lemon cus^ 
tard except use rind and juice of one lemon, 

130 



HALF MOON PIES. 

Cut cream pastty in rounds, measuring with saucer. 
Fill with well-seasoned dried or fresh fruit, preserves or 
jam. Fold together and press edges with silver fork. Fry 
in butter or fat, or bake in oven. Brush with butter and 
sprinkle with sugar while warm. 

CREAM CUSTARD. 

1-3 cup butter. 1-3 cup flour. 

Melt butter, and cream flour and butter together. Yolks 
of four eggs, one cup sugar, one and one-half cups sweet 
milk. Beat yolks, add sugar; when milk is scalded add 
flour and butter, then sugar and eggs. Cook in double boiler 
until thick. Add any flavoring. 

APPL]E PIE. 

Line pie pan with pastry, roll thin, sprinkle with sugar, 
then layer of apples sliced very thin. Sprinkles again with 
sugar and bits of butter, strip across with pastry or cover 
top and sprinkle with sugar and butter, bake until tender 
and crust is brown. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

2 cups apples. Pinch salt. 

3 egg yolks. Season with nutmeg and cin- 
1 cup sugar. namon. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Stew apples until tender; run through sieve. 

Pinch salt, season with nutmeg and cinnamon, ilf mer- 
ingue is desired, beat three full tablespoons sugar nto the 
three whites ; bake in pastry. 

LEMON PIE. 
One pie : 

1 lemon. Grated rind of V^ ahemon. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon flour. \ 

y2 cup seeded raisins. 1 tablespoon butter. \ 

Cook over fire until thick, then add raisins. BaWe pas- 
try and put in filling. Roll thin pastry for top. Can' make 
roll instead of pie and serve with lemon sauce. 

131 



RAISIN ROLL. 

1 cup raisins. % cup fruit juice. 

1 cup English walnuts. 2 tablespoons butter. 

Roll pastry thin, spread with raisins, nuts, sugar and 
butter. Bake brown in moderate oven. Delicious. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 
Steam sweet potatoes. Line a pan with pastry, bake a 
little, put in layer of sweet potatoes sliced thin. Make a 
syrup of two tablespoons butter, one cup sugar, i/^ cup 
corn syrup, two tablespoons water, a little cinnamon and 
allspice. Pour over potatoes and add another layer, then 
syrup. Bake as custard or cover and make an old-fashioned 
sweet potato pie. 

IRISH POTATO CUSTARD. 

1 cup boiled and mashed 2 egg yolks. 

potatoes. y2 cup sugar. 

y2 cup cream. A little nutmeg. 

Put in pastry and bake. Make meringue. This makes 
one large custard. Sweet potatoes may be used the same 
way. 

All berry pies are made in the same way, some requir- 
ing more sugar than others. Blackberries and raspberries 
are put in pastry before cooking, also cherries. Gooseber- 
ries and pie plant must be heated to i boiling point and 
strained, then seasoned. 

CHESSS CAKES. 

5 eggs. 1 cup milk. 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon each flour ana 
Yi cup butter. meal. , 

Beat yolks light with sugar, mix flour and meal with 
dry sugar, add soft butter, and mix all with milk, make stiff 
meringue with five whites and five tablespoons sugar. This 
makes three pies. 

AMBER CUSTARD. 

4 eggs. y^ cup butter. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup plum jelly. 

1 cup sweet milk. 1 tablespoon flour and meal 

* mixed with sugar. 

132 



CHEAP LEMON CUSTARD. 

3 eggs. 1 tablespoon com starch in 3 
1% cups sugar. tablespoons milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. 2 lemons. 

Make meringue of whites. Enough for two pies. 

BLACKBERRY JAM CUSTARDS. 

4 eggs. 1 cup blackberry jam. 

1 cup sugar. 1/2 cup butter. 

Bake in pastry, cover with meringue. If yolks only are 
used spread cream icing on top. Raspberries and straw- 
berries may be used the same way. 

BROWN SUGAR CUSTARD. 

3 cups brown sugar. 14 cup butter. 

3 eggs. 

Bake in good pastry. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 
To every cup of steamed and strained pumpkin add one 
tablespoon butter, one-half cup milk, yolk one egg, one-half 
cup sugar, pinch salt and a little nutmeg and cinnamon. 
Use whites for meringue if desired. 

MINCEMEAT. 

3 lbs. lean beef boiled and 3 lbs. hght brown sugar. 

chopped fine. 1 cup molasses. 

2 lbs. suet chopped fine 1 cup vinegar. 

(add tablespoon salt). Rind of 1 orange. 

4 lbs. seeded raisins. Juice of 2 lemons. 

2 lbs. currants. 1 pint of good grape juice. 

1 lb. citron. Cinnamon and cloves to 

1 pk. winesap apples peeled taste, 
and chopped fine. 

GREEN TOMATO MINCEMEAT. 

One peck of green tomatoes, either cut up or ground. 
Scald and let stand until cold. Press out water gently and 
scald again. Drain off this water, but do not ever squeeze. 
Add 5 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. home-made citron and 2 lbs. raisins. 
Boil all until tender. Then add 1 cup grape juice and juice 
of 2 lemons, cloves, spices and nutmeg to taste. Put in 
jars and seal. This recipe makes most delicious pies. 

133 



MINCEMEAT PIES. 
Line pan with puff pastry and fill with mincemeat, cover 
with strips of pastry, sprinkle with sugar and bake. 

GELATINE JELLY. 
Always soak gelatine in cold water before dissolving in 
hot water. Use sugar according to acid in the fruit, some 
requiring more sugar than others; one-half cup to a pint 
is good proportion. 

LEMON JELLY. 

1 pint lemon juice. IV^ cups sugar. 

2 cups cold water. 3 cups boiling water. 
14 box gelatine. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

1/^ box gelatine. 1 cup sugar. 

1 pint cold water. 1 cup orange juice. 

11/^ cups boiling water. Juice of 1 lemon. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY. 

1/^ pint cold water. 1 cup pineapple cut in small 

1 pint boiling water. pieces. 

2 lemons. 1 box gelatine. 
1 cup pineapple juice. 

Put pineapple juice, sugar and water on fire. When 
boiling pour over gelatine which has been soaked in cold 
water. When cool and before it begins to set, add fruit. 

APPLES IN JELLY. 

5 apples. 1 15-cent bottle maraschino 

11/4 cups sugar. cherries. 

IV^ cups water. 2 tablespoons gelatine soaked 

^ cup raisins. in i/^ cup water. 

Juice 1 lemon. 

Put on sugar with water, cook into syrup. Peel and 
core five apples, stuff with raisins and cherries. Place in 
syrup and cook until tender; take out carefully and place 
on dish an inch deep on sides. Add lemon and cherry juice 
to syrup, also gelatine. When thoroughly dissolved and 
nearly cool, pour around and over apples. Color any shade 
with color paste. Cut out apples with round cutter if it is 
to be sen'^ed as individuals. They are pretty served in 
crystal dish with meat course. 

184 



WINE JELLY. 

1 pint cold water. 1 egg white slightly beaten. 

1 box gelatine. 2 lemons. 

1 pint boiling water. 1 stick cinnamon, 

11/2 cups sugar. 11/2 cups home-made wine. 

Make as lemon jelly ; when cool add fruit and wine. 

PEACH JELLY. 

Use pretty halves of firm peaches. Use same propor- 
tions as for wine jelly, only one cup wine. When almost 
cool pour over the peaches laid on pretty dish. 

Orange jelly may be used with pineapple and cherries. 

CARAMEL POWDER. 
11/^ cups granulated sugar. 14 lb. almonds. 

Melt sugar in steel spider, blanch almonds, add to sugar 
and when brown to cream color, pour out on greased mar- 
ble or platter. When cold, pound into a powder. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 



1/2 lb. Italian chestnuts. 


1 tablespoon com starch, 


2 cups rich milk. 


l^ box gelatine. 


1/2 cup sugar. 


% cup water. 


3 yolks. 


1 teaspoon vanilla. 



Boil chestnuts, drain and put through sieve. Soak gela- 
tine in the water and add gradually to hot chestnuts. Make 
milk, eggs, sugar and com starch into custard, add chest- 
nuts to this. Stir until cool. Put in border mold, and when 
ready to serve, fill with whipped cream that has been sweet- 
ened and flavored. 

GOOD CHARLOTTE. 

1 pint double cream. ' 10 cts. orange paste. 

1/2 cup sugar. 1 cup almonds, blanched, 
10 cts. worth marshmal- ground and browned, 

lows. 1-3 cup grape wine. 

Whip cream stiff, fold in sugar, cut marshmallows and 
paste in pieces ; gently fold in, set on ice to chill. If desired, 
use one bottle of marrons with marshmallows instead of 
almonds and paste. 

135 



BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Bavarian creams are a combination of fruit juices and 
other liquids, as milk, coffee, chocolate and cream. 

l^ box gelatine. V2 cup orange juice. 

14 cup cold water. y^ cup sugar. 

1 cup strawberry juice 1 pint whipped cream, 
and pulp. 

Soften gelatine in cold water for ten minutes. Dissolve 
by putting vessel in hot water. Strain this into strawberry 
and orange juice. Add sugar and stir until thoroughly dis- 
solved. When mixture begins to set, fold in cream. 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

i/^s box gelatine. 1 cup pineapple juice (water 

1 quart berries. will do) . 

2 cups sugar. 

Pick, wash and cap strawberries. Let stand with one 
cup sugar for an hour. Mash and strain out cup juice. 
May be put through colander, letting some of the pulp go 
through. Put this cup of juice over the gelatine. 

Heat to the boiling point the pineapple juice. Beat the 
eggs stiff over crushed ice, add the sugar and beat well 
again. Pour over this a little at a time the other mixture. 
When nearly set, put in mould dipped in cold water. Line 
a pretty mold with strawberries cut in halves ; when chilled 
and ready to use, turn on platter and garnish with whole 
berries and whipped cream. Serve with strawberry sauce. 

JELLIED PLUM PUDDING. 

3 tart apples. 1 cup nuts. 

1/^ lb. stoned dates. V^ cup brown sugar. 

1 cup raisins. 2 cups water. 

Make syrup of sugar and water and gently simmer there- 
in the pared and quartered apples. For the last ten min- 
utes add raisins and dates and allow to cook with apples. 
Dates should be cut in one-half-inch pieces. Add gelatine, 
stir until dissolved, add nuts and place in mold. Slice and 
serve with sauce or whipped cream. 



136 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 



There is nothing more appetizing than a dainty glass 
of ice in the heated season. 

There are so many desserts that come under this head. 

They consist of Philadelphia and French ice cream, with 
different degrees of richness, frozen puddings, parfaits, 
mousses, water ice sherbets, punches. All of these varie-. 
ties with different flavorings and manner of molding give 
an infinite variety of beautiful creams and ices. 

Plain cream is sweetened, flavored and frozen. 

French cream is made with custard foundation, 'with 
cream added. 

Parfaits and mousses are whipped cream with or with- 
out eggs, frozen or packed in ice and salt. 

Sherbets are fruit juices with syrup and frozen; 

Punches are sherbets with wine added before or after 
freezing. 

In making ices and creams, an ice bag is valuable, made 
of white duck or canvas. 

Put in ice and crush with mallet. Use two parts ice 
and one part rock salt. 

Always scald freezer thoroughly before using, and al- 
ways wash and dry well after cream is taken from freezer. 

A new freezer, before being used, should be thoroughly 
scalded to kill any chance germs. It is a wise plan to add 
a little bicarbonate of soda — ordinary baking soda — ^to the 
scalding water. This, however, is a precaution which should 
be taken with any kitchen utensil before it is used. From 
then on the utmost care should be exercised to keep the 
cylinder of the freezer clean and dry, as rust is a worse 
enemy than germs. 

It is a mistaken idea that the texture of the cream de- 
pends upon the rapidity with which it is beaten. Turning 
the crank too rapidly at first makes an uneven grain, as 
also does any interruption during the process of freezing. 
During any pause some of the mixture of course, lies mo- 
tionless against the sides of the cylinder, and accordingly 
freezes coarser than the rest of the cylinder's contents- 
Start a slow, even pace, which you will be able to keep up.. 

137 



BUFORD SHERBET. 

1 pint water. 1 lb. sugar. 

l^.lb. large raisins. 1/4 lb. figs cut fine. 

Yz stick cinnamon. 3 cloves. 

3 oranges. 1 lemon. 

1 cup white grape juice. 

Boil water and sugar to syrup. Cut raisins and figs 
fine and put in earthen bowl. Pour over these the boiling 
syrup and let stand until cold. Remove cinnamon and 
cloves, add to syrup and other fruit the orange, lemon and 
grape juice; then freeze. 

PARFAIT. 
This delicious dessert is made in various flavors, but 
the foundation is always a boiled syrup, such as is used 
for icings, with the whites of eggs added. Boil one cupful 
of sugar and one-quarter cup of water into a syrup and 
pour over the well-beaten whites of four eggs. Beat until 
cool and then add one quart of whipped cream. Into this 
may be stirred any flavoring or crushed fruit desired. This 
is not beaten while freezing like ice cream and sherbet, 
but is packed in ice and salt until congealed. 

CAFE PARFAIT. 
Put the yolks of five eggs, well beaten, into a sauce- 
pan. Add three tablespoonfuls of sugar-syrup and four 
tablespoonfuls of strong coffee. Stir over a slow fire until 
it coats the spoon thickly. Turn into a bowl and beat until 
cold and light. Fold in a pint of cream> whipped stiff. Turn 
into a covered mold and pack in ice and salt for four hours. 

MAPLE PARFAIT. 

6 egg yolks. 2 cups whipped cream. 

% cup maple syrup. 

Beat yolks very light, add maple syrup, cook in double 
boiler until makes a thick coating on spoon. Pour into 
mold and whip light with wire egg whip; when cold, fold 
in cream and one cup caramel powder, and pack in salt and 
ice. Candied fruits may be added in same way as powder. 

MOUSSE. 

Mousse differs from parfait in being made of pure cream, 
sweetened and flavored, with sometimes a little gela- 

138 



tine added instead of syrup and the whites of eggs. An at- 
tractive way of serving mousse or parfait is to freeze it in 
layers with cake and fruit. In the bottom of the mold place 
a layer of sponge cake an inch thick. Over it spread the 
cream mixture, and on this a layer of fruit. Place another 
one of cake and so on for two layers of each, making six 
in all. Pack the mold and freeze. 

Unlike the ice cream freezer, the bucket in which mousse 
or parfait is frozen must have a layer of ice and salt placed 
in the bottom. On this is set the empty mold and the ice 
and salt are packed half-way up its sides to chill. The 
mold is next filled with the mixture to be frozen, protected 
from the air and from any chance salt by a piece of oiled 
paper and tightly covered. The packing is then completed, 
and it is set away from two to four hours. The correct 
proportions of ice and salt to be used in packing mousse or 
parfait are one part of salt to two parts of ice. 

In unmolding, remove from the packer and wipe away 
carefully all traces of the salt. Then immerse the mold in 
hot water for a few seconds and invert upon a platter. 

MACAROON BISQUE. 

2 cups sifted macaroon 1 teaspoon granulated gela- 

crumbs. tine. 

6 tablespoons powdered 1/4 cup juice from the cherries 

sugar. 1 cup orange juice. 

1 cup maraschino cherries 1 pint whipped cream. 

cut fine. 

Place sifted macaroon crumbs and the cherries in a 
bowl, add cherry and orange juice, let stand overnight, dis- 
solve gelatine in a little cream and add it with the sugar 
to the crumbs. Beat cream very stiff and slowly add the 
other mixture. Put in mold, pack in ice and salt, let stand 
several hours. Decorate with macaroons and serve. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

Make one pint of boiled custard. When cold, add to it 
one quart of sweetened cream. Flavor with vanilla. Brown 
three dozen macaroons and crush them fine. Stir these into 
the mixture and freeze. This cream will be found an agree- 
able change from the more ordinary flavors. 

139 



DELICIOUS CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

6 yolks. 1 pint sweet milk. 

1 cup sugar. 1 pint double cream, 

% box granulated gelatine. whipped. 

Served in marcaroon cups. 

Soak gelatine in one-fourth cup cold milk, beat yolks 
very light, add sugar and beat well. Put milk in double 
boiler, and when hot add sugar and yolks gradually, then 
stir in gelatine, cook until thick, stirring all the time. When 
taken from fire, strain and whip until cool. Fold in whipped 
cream. Flavor with two tablespoons of vanilla. Line mold 
with lady fingers or macaroons and pack in ice to congeal. 
Put in mold without cake and when ready serve in cups 
made of macaroons. It will require five to each cup, one 
for bottom and four around, fastened together with candy 
syrup. 

DELICATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

4 egg whites, •bhiuba suoodsaiqB:^ g 

2 tablespoons gelatine. -uiBejo paddiqM. :iuid x 

y^ cup sweet milk. 

Beat eggs stiff, add sugar and whip well. Dissolve gela- 
tine in milk on stove and when cool enough whip into eggs 
and sugar. Set in ice to congeal. Line bowl with lady 
fingers if liked. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

From three pints of milk, the yolks of five eggs, one 
cupful of sugar and three tablespoonfuls of flour make a 
boiled custard. Flavor with vanilla just after taking off 
the stove. When ready to freeze add one pint of rich milk 
and the whites of three eggs beaten stiff. When it begins 
to freeze — ^that is, when it is stiff enough to hold up the 
fruit — add one pound raisins, one-half pound pecans, one- 
half pound almonds and one-fourth pound maraschino cher- 
ries with juice, cut into small pieces. 
« 

GOOD AND CHEAP SHERBET. 
Make a quart of lemonade with three lemons and one 
cupful of sugar. When partly frozen add one pint of cream 
sweetened and flavored with vanilla. In making the lemon- 
ade the sugar should be dissolved over the fire in part of 
the water. This is true of all sherbets. They have a finer 

140 



grain if the sugar used is put over the stove in part of the 
liquid just long enough to dissolve it thoroughly. 

VANILLA ICE' CREAM. 

Whip one pint of cream. Dissolve one tablespoon of 
granulated gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of water. Scald 
another pint of cream and add one cupful of granulated 
sugar, being careful that it is thoroughly dissolved. Stir 
in the gelatine and flavoring. Strain. As soon as cold, put 
into the freezer, and when partly frozen add the whipped 
cream. Pack away to season for one or two hours before 
serving. This is one kind of Philadelphia cream. 

When the recipe for a frozen dessert calls for whipped 
cream, it should be drained, after it has been beaten stiff 
and before adding to the mixture, by putting into a colan- 
der and letting the milk drip through; otherwise there will 
be more moisture than desired. If double cream, twelve 
hours old, is used, it should beat stiff without leaving any 
milk. 

A popular way of serving vanilla cream is with a sauce. 
The following chocolate sauce for ice cream is recommended 
for its fine, smooth consistency: 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 
Put over the fire and cook to a thick syrup two cupfuls 
sugar, one cupful of milk, two tablespoons grated chocolate, 
or the same amount of cocoa and one tablespoon of butter. 

FRUIT SYRUPS FOR ICE CREAM. 

Add any kind of crushed fruit to a syrup made of two 
cupfuls of sugar to one cupful of water. Nuts and raisins 
may be used with the crushed fruit if desired. 

GRAPE FRUIT ICE. 
(One-half gallon.) 

2 grapefruits. ' 2 cups sugar. 

3 lemons. 2 pints water. 

Squeeze juice from lemons. Put sugar, rind and one 
pint of water on fire, let boil five minutes ; when cool, add 
rest of water and fruit juices. Put in freezer, and when it 
be^ns to freeze add the shredded grape fruit. Serve in 
glass cups with maraschino cherry garnish. 

141 



WE THREE SHERBET. 
Dissolve over the stove three cups of sugar ih three 
cups of water; when cool into this put three bananas, three 
oranges and one pineapple. Add the juice of three lemons. 
When it begins to freeze add the whites of two eggs, well 
beaten. Put the bananas through the colander and chop 
the other fruits fine. 

MARSHMALLOW ICE CREAM. 
Cut one-half pound of marshmallows into small pieces. 
Roll very fine one dozen macaroons, first drying them in 
the oven, if they are fresh. Dissolve two tablespoons of 
gelatine in three tablespoons of milk, stirring it over the 
fire. Add this to the mixture. When ready to freeze, beat 
in three pints of cream and flavor with vanilla. After it 
is partly frozen stir in one-half pound of chopped raisins. 

PEPPERMINT CANDY ICE CREAM. 
One scant pound of old-fashioned peppermint sticks, 
crushed very fine, and dissolved over the fire in one pint of 
milk. When cool> add to this three pints of cream. Beat 
five minutes with an egg whip and freeze. The cream will 
be a delicate pink. 

CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW CREAM. 
Make a custard of the yolks of four eggs, one and one- 
half cups of sugar and three cups of milk, one-half cake of 
chocolate broken in pieces. Put the chocolate and milk on 
together in a double boiler, stir until the chocolate is melted, 
pour over the eggs and sugar, cook two or three minutes. 
Cool, add one tablespoon of vanilla, one quart of cream; 
when it begins to freeze add one-half pound of marshmal- 
lows cut in two or three pieces. 

NUT CREAM. 

l^ lb. almonds blanched 1 small bottle maraschino 

and minced. cherries. 

14 lb. English walnuts. 1 quart double cream. 

V^ lb. pecans. II/2 cups sugar. 

y^ cup milk. 
Dissolve sugar in milk. When cool add the whipped 
cream, flavor with one teaspoon vanilla and fold in nuts. 
When it begins to freeze add juice of cherries. 

142 



ICE CREAM CROQUETS. 
Grind and brown one cup almonds, one cup dry sifted 
macaroons. Dish up spoonfuls in the frozen cream, roll in 
the nuts, having them spread on platter. Serve immedi- 
ately. Pretty and good. 

PINEAPPLE AND COCOANUT CREAM. 

1 grated cocoanut and milk. 1 quart cream. 

1 cup sugar. 1 can pineapple cut fine. 

Put cocoanut milk and juice of pineapple on fire with 
cup sugar and let dissolve. When cool add cream. When 
partly frozen add pineapple and cocoanut. 

DELICIOUS GINGER ICE CREAM. 
Scald one quart milk with two tablespoons flour or com 
starch, one-half cup sugar, and stir into hot milk. Stir con- 
stantly until mixture thickens, then let cool, stirring occa- 
sionally for ten minutes. Beat three eggs, add a few grains 
salt and one-half cup sugar. Mix well, add a little of the 
hot mixture, and when well blended stir into it the rest of 
the mixture. Stir and cook until the eggs seem "set," then 
strain. When cold, add one pint whipped cream and begin 
to freeze. When nearly frozen, add one cup preserved gin- 
ger cut very fine and mixed with cup of white grape juice. 
Finish freezing and let stand an hour or more to ripen. 

PLUM PUDDING ICE CREAM. 

3 eggs. V4, cup chopped dates. 

1 cup sugar. i/4 cup each of candied cher- 

1 cup whipped cream. ries, pecans, raisins and 

2 cups sweet milk. figs, all chopped. 
1 ounce sweet chocolate. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

To the beaten yolks add sugar and gradually stir in 
milk that has been brought to scalding point — add melted 
chocolate and cook whole several minutes. Remove from 
fire and add stiffly beaten egg whites, beating in. When cold 
add whipped cream. To the chopped fruits add a small 
quantity of sugar and allow to simmer a short time on 
stove. Allow to cool. Pour first mixture into freezer and 
partly freeze — remove dasher, add fruit mixture and nuts, 
pack in ice and salt and let stand three hours. Serve with 
whipped cream on top and decorate with candied fruit. 



BEVERAGES 



SPECIAL BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

One gallon berries, three pints water. Let boil a few 
minutes, strain; to two cups juice one cup sugar. Season 
with cinnamon, allspice and cloves. Cook until well sea- 
soned. 

TEA. 

A clean tea pot, stone or china, boiling fresh water and 
good quality of tea are essential in making a refreshing, 
wholesome drink. Use all green, all black or a mixture of 
the two, the latter is preferred. 

Pour boiling water in pot, cover for a moment, pour out 
and put in tea, allowing one teaspoon to each cup, add to 
this the boiling water, let steep five minutes. Serve at 
once, or if needed for ice tea, pour off into a clean vessel to 
cool. When a large quantity is needed make strong and add 
fresh boiling water. 

In making ice tea, sweeten while hot, add lemon juice 
and rind is good. Let stand until seasoned and strain. If 
two lemons are needed, squeeze out juice and mash rinds, 
put in boiling water. To one cup add one cup sugar and 
make syrup. Nice way to get lemon flavor and also eco- 
nomical when they are expensive. 

RUSSIAN TEA. 

Slice of lemon added to one cup of sweetened tea. Rus- 
sian tea is served hot. 

BULGARIAN TEA. 

1/2 doz. lemons. 1 can pineapple" chunks. 

1 gal. tea. If berries are in season, use 

2 cups sugar, or more if 1 qt. strawberries, if not 

needed. V2 doz, oranges sliced. 

1 bottle maraschino cher- 
ries with juice. 
Put rinds, sugar and one pint water on to boil in a 
syrup, add to tea. If strong, add more water. Pretty 
served at afternoon tea. 

144 



GRAPE JUICE. 

Pull one gallon grapes from stems, pour over three pints 
water. When it boils strain through cloth, sweeten to taste, 
return to fire and cook ten minutes. Strain and seal in 
bottles. 

COFFEE. 

Always use a good brand of coffee. It should be finely 
ground to get the best strength. There are several ways 
of preparing coffee for table. Some prefer boiling, others 
dripped, and some use percolator. One tablespoon to each 
cup is the usual proportion. 

BOILED COFFEE. 
One tablespoon to each cup and one for pot, one table- 
spoon cold water, one spoon egg white. Put coffee and egg 
in pot, set on back of stove, pour over cold water, mix, then 
pour the amount needed of boiling water. Boil three or 
four minutes. Then set again back of stove, settle with a 
little cold water and steep a few minutes before serving. 
Serve with warm milk. 

PERCOLATED COFFEE. 
Use same amount. Put coffee in perforated cup with 
water in bottom. Set on stove, and when it begins to per- 
colate let it stay on fire fifteen minutes. I would advise 
using a percolator, for the coffee is much better. Always 
use care in keeping pot well cleaned and aired. 

DRIPPED COFFEE. 
Use finely ground coffee. Put coffee in strainer, same 
proportion. Set pot on stove, pour over boiling water. It 
is ready as soon as water drips through. 

CAFE AU LAIT. 
Use boiled coffee, mix half milk and half water. 

COCOA, 

2 cups boiling water. 2 tablespoons cocoa. 

2 cups milk. 1-3 cup sugar. 

Put milk on fire, leaving enough to moisten cocoa. Add 
cocoa to milk with sugar. Pour into this the boiling water. 

145 

(10) 



CHOCOLATE. 

% gal. milk. V^ lb. unsweetened chocolate. 

2 cups sugar. 

Put milk on in double boiler, with chocolate and sugar. 
Let thoroughly blend. It will be more delightful if stands 
an hour before serving. Add vanilla if liked. Some use 
yolks, but it is not necessary to thicken it; after standing 
it will be thick enough. Serve with whipped cream. 

HOT CHOCOLATE FOR TWO. 

1 oz. chocolate. 1 cup boiling water. 

2 heaping teaspoons sugar. 1 cup hot milk. 

Cook until smooth the sugar, chocolate and water and 
add hot milk. 

Marshmallows are pretty served on cup chocolate. 

Meringues can also be used for decorations. 

Sugar does not dissolve readily in cold fruit juice or cold 
tea; sugar syrup is better. 

LEMONADE. 

One-half lemon to each glass, two spoons sugar; better 
with sugar syrup. 

LEMONADE SYRUP. 

4 cups water. Juice 6 lemons. 

2 cups sugar. 

If rinds are good, wash and drop into boiling water. Let 
stand fifteen minutes. Boil all of the above into a syrup. 
Put hot in sterilized bottles, to be used for tea, lemonade 
and all drinks when this acid flavor is needed. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Eight cups of water, four cups of sugar. Boil and cool. 
Add to this six oranges, three lemons, one pineapple shred- 
ded, one box strawberries, two grape fruit, two quarts Apoli- 
naris water. Can be diluted to suit taste. 



146 



CANDY 

In making candy I always use granulated sugar unless 
other is specified. Candy must never be stirred when boil- 
ing. Cream of tartar should be added after syrup begins 
to boil. Butter should be put in when candy is almost done. 
Flavors are more delicate when not boiled in candy. 

PEANUT BRITTLE. 

Put two cups of sugar in kettle and stir constantly. 
Have ready one cup of peanuts ; when sugar is melted, stir 
in peanuts and pour on marble. Almonds, pecans and all 
nuts can be used same way. 

FUDGE. 

3 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup cream. 

When sugar is melted add four or five tablespoons of 
cocoa. Stir and boil fifteen minutes. Take from fire and 
heat until creamy. Add teaspoonful vanilla. Pour on but- 
tered plate and cut in squares. 

To make marshmallow chocolate fudge add ten cents' 
worth of marshmallows just before pouring on buttered 
platter. 

GOOD BROWN SUGAR CANDY. 

Take three cups of light brown sugar and one cup of 
cream. Boil until nearly done; drop in a lump of butter 
the size of a walnut. Try in cold water and when it rolls 
in a soft ball between the fingers and thumb, remove from 
the fire. Add nuts and beat until nearly cold. Pour in but- 
tered tins and cut in squares. 

DIPPED MARSHMALLOWS. 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup milk. 

One cup of caramel sugar poured into milk and sugar 
while boiling; when nearly done put in one tablespoon of 
butter. Let cook until it forms a soft ball; take from fire 
and beat until cool. Dip marshmallows with a fork and 
put on oil paper. 

147 



MARSHMALLOW CANDY. 

Two cups sugar, one-fourth cup water, boiled until it 
threads. Beat into one-half box gelatine dissolved in one- 
half cup cold water. Beat until almost stiff, cut in squares, 
put in dish or square pan an inch deep. 

U. NO ALL MINTS. 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup water. 1 teaspoon mint extract. 

Cook until soft ball stage. Pour out on greased mar- 
ble. When a little cool work to a cream with wooden pad- 
dle; cut in small pieces. 

FONDANT MADE WITH EGG WHITE AND SUGAR. 

Break one white in bowl, add two tablespoons cold water, 
beat together until creamy, add to this one pound of con- 
fectioners' sugar sifted. Make a dough that can be han- 
dled. Have a little dry sugar to keep from sticking. Divide 
in portions, flavor to taste. Make into balls with a few nuts 
on top anj^ shape desired. Roll in granulated sugar. Cut 
up any candied fruit, mix with fondant, cover with choco- 
late and cut in squares. 

PRETTY CANDY BOWLS TO SERVE HOMEMADE 
CANDY IN. 

2 cups pure granulated 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

sugar, 1 cup water. 

Put sugar and water, well stirred on fire; after it boils 
a few minutes, add vinegar. Have cup of ice water, and 
when syrup cracks and piles up in cup it is ready to be used. 
Color any delicate shade before taking from fire, but not 
until ready (or can be colored on marble). Pour out in 
small rounds on greased marble. Brush jelly glasses (in- 
verted) with almond or peanut oil. When candy can be 
lifted with knife, take up, press out with fingers and form 
over glasses. Move on glasses often and if cooked right, 
it will stand alone in a few minutes ; shape edges any way, 
but the work must be done fast. A little practice will be 
required to make success. 

148 




INDIVIDUAL CUP. 



DATE LOAF. 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup milk. 1 cup chopped pecans. 

1 pkg. dates seeded. 

Cook until soft ball stage. Beat until creamy. Roll in 
damp cloth. Slice when cold. 

CANDY PUDDING. 

2 pints granulated sugar. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 
% pint water. 1 tiny pinch of soda. 

Mix all together, put on low fire until thoroughly blended 
and sugar dissolved. Then cook quickly until brittle in cold 
water. Pour on greased marble, when cools a little pull 
like taffy until light. Work into this one cup grated cocoa- 
nut, one cup seeded and chopped raisins, one cup almonds, 
one cup pecans cut in pieces. Make into ball, put in a mold 
lined with oil paper. Serve on platter, cover with melted 
chocolate. 

NOUGAT. 

4 cups granulated sugar. 1/2 lb. almonds. 

3 egg whites. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
y2 cup com syrup (white) . 1 teaspoon lemon. 

Put sugar, water and syrup on to cook, beat eggs, and 
when syrup cooks until a soft ball in cold water, begin beat- 
ing slowly into eggs, little at a. time. Beat until thick, add 
almonds and pile on buttered dish. Any nuts may be used ; 
hickory nuts are good. 

CARAMELS. 

2 cups brown sugar. 3 tablespoons butter. 
1 cup cream. V2. cup chocolate. 

Let cook until thick, add butter and chocolate. Remove 
from fire and beat a long time before pouring out in greased 
pan. 

DATE, GINGER AND NUT CANDY. 

Remove stones from dates, chop equal measures of can- 
died ginger, hickory nuts, pecans or almonds. Mix with 
fondant, enough to hold together. Fill open space of dates. 
Press together, roll in coarse granulated sugar. 

149 



PRALINES. 

3 cups light brown or white 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

sugar. 1 cup nuts^pecans best. 

1 cup sweet milk. If white sugar is used cara- 

3 tablespoons maple syrup. mel V^ cup. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Put sugar and milk on to cook and stir constantly. 
When begins to boil, add maple syrup and cook until soft 
ball stage, add vanilla and butter, remove from fire. Let 
stand few minutes. Beat until creamy, add flavoring and 
nuts. Drop by spoonfuls on oil paper. 

FRENCH FONDANT. 
The variety made from fondant is limitless. It is made 
with white and maple sugar. The white may be colored 
any shade and any flavor can be made; also any fruit or 
nuts can be used to give variety and delicious quality to 
this foundation. The fresh fruits, strawberries, grapes, 
cherries and also French fruit can be dipped with the melted 
fondant; marshmallow, nuts, candied orange and cherries 
are good coated with this candy. We give below the prin- 
ciple that will be best for beginners: 

2 cups sugar. 14 teaspoon cream tartar. 
2-3 cup water. 

Put sugar and water on fire and stir until begins to boil. 
Take out spoon and with brush dipped in cold water wash 
down sides to keep the sugar crystals from forming. Cover 
and boil five minutes. Put in cream tartar, cook until soft 
ball stage, by thermometer '238 degrees. When ready, turn 
out on marble slab dampened with water. Let stand until 
a dent can be made on surface. Then work the candy back 
and forth with wooden spatula to a white, smooth, creamy 
paste; knead with hands all together and put in earthen 
bowl, cover closely with damp cloth, put in cool place 
twenty-four hours. The fondant is not perfect when gran- 
ular. Water can be added and cooked again. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

2 cups sugar. 2 tablespoons gelatine soaked 
1 cup water. in 7 tablespoons water. 

3 small pinches cream tartar. 

Put on to cook, when sugar threads beat in gelatine and 
when hard spread on marble with powdered sugar. 

150 



PENOCHE. 

3 cups light brown sugar. 1 cup milk. 

1 cup granulated sugar. 2 tabl" spoons butter. 

1 cup chopped nuts. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Cook sugar and milk until it forms soft ball between 
the fingers, when tried in cold water. Do not stir after it 
begins to boil. Remove from fire, add butter, letting it 
melt on top. When the outside of the saucepan feels cool, 
begin to beat the candy, adding nuts and flavoring. Beat 
until creamy and turn into buttered pan. If beaten too 
long, it will harden before it can be turned into the pan; 
in this case, a little more milk may be added to dissolve 
the sugar and made over; when cool, cut in squares. 

MARY ELIZABETH'S BUTTER SCOTCH. 

6 tablespoons Nectar drip 2 tablespoons water, 
molasses. 1 tablespoon butter. 

5 tablespoons granulated sugar. 

Cook until cracks in cold water. Drop in rounds on 
greased marble or wax paper. 

DAISY CREAM CANDY. 

3 pints sugar. 8 teaspoons cream or rich 

1 pint boiling water. milk. 

1 teaspoon vinegar. Pinch salt. 

Cook until forms a hard ball in cold water. Turn out 
on greased marble, flavor with vanilla or cinnamon. Pull 
until it begins to look creamy; cut in pieces with scissors. 
Make cream icing, and when taken from fire add cocoanut 
and drop on wax paper. 

COCOANUT CREAM CANDY. 

1 cocoanut — milk and IV2 lbs, sugar (3 cups). 

meat. 
Put on sugar with milk from cocoanut; after it boils 
ten minutes add grated cocoanut and cook five minutes. 
Beat until it i^ cold, pour out on greased marble and cut 
in squares. 

BROWN SUGAR CANDY. 

2 cups brown sugar, 1 tablespoon vinegar. 
2 cups corn syrup. 

Cook until strings, then cool and pull. 

I 

:5i 



PICKLE 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLE. 

Take six pounds green tomatoes, slice tomatoes and 
sprinkle with salt and let stand over night. Squeeze out 
of brine, soak in fresh water several hours. Then boil to- 
matoes in strong ginger tea for half hour. Drain out of 
tea and take one quart good vinegar, three pounds white 
sugar, one ounce cinnamon sticks, one-half ounce cloves, one- 
half ounce mace, add two pounds seeded raisins, one and 
three-fourths pounds homemade citron cut in small squares. 
Boil all together one-half hour, put in quart jars and boil 
syrup until thick and pour over pickle. Seal tight. 

CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Take cucumbers out of 'brine, soak in cold water until 
fresh. Change the water often, then scald in weak vinegar, 
putting into this a light tablespoon of alum to two gallons 
cucumbers. Let stand in vinegar until cool. To one-half 
gallon strong vinegar add two cups brown sugar, one ounce 
allspice, one-half ounce black pepper tied in a' bag, a little 
garlic or onion. Heat well and pour over pickle. 

SWEET PICKLE— PEACH. 

Tp nine pounds peeled peaches, three pounds white su- 
gar, one and one-half pints strong apple vinegar, cloves 
and spice to taste. Cook peaches until can be pierced with 
straw. Put peaches in jar and cook syrup until thick, pour 
syrup over peaches and seal. 

SWEET PICKLE— PEAR. 

• 

7 lbs. peeled pears. V2 oz. cloves. 

3 lbs. sugar. V2 oz. stick cinnamon. 

1 pint apple vinegar. 1 oz. allspice. 

Cook pears until done, then pack in jars and cook syrup 
thick and cover the pears well. Seal tight. 

152 



PICKLED ONIONS. 

One gallon small white onions, peel, cover with brine, 
made one-half pound salt to one gallon boiling water. Pour 
over onions and let stand twenty-four hours. Drain, cover 
with boiling water with a teaspoon alum. Stand several 
hours, drain off water and put onions in jars and cover with 
boiling vinegar, spiced to taste with whole black pepiJer, 
allspice and cinnamon. 

HOTCH POTCH PICKLE. 

1 large head firm cabbage. 1/2 dozen white onions. 

2 dozen cucumbers. 4 green peppers. 
2 dozen green tomatoes. 

Chop all ingredients fine, cover with one-half pint salt, . 
stand all night, put in a bag to drain. Cover with weak 
vinegar, let stand twenty-four hours. Next morning drain 
off vinegar and to every gallon pickle' put one-half pound 
sugar, one dozen cloves, one ounce white mustard seed, one 
ounce celery seed. Put all in preserving kettle with strong 
vinegar and let boil one-half hour. 

VIRGINIA MIXED PICKLE. 

1 peck green tomatoes. 6 pods green pepper. 

1 firm head cabbage. 1 pint horseradish. 

12 white onions. 1 small bottle mustard dress- 

2 dozen cucumbers. ing. 

Put on board and chop with large knife. Mix all well 
together and put in granite or stone bowl. Sprinkle a pint 
of salt over all, let stand over night, put in bag to drain 
well. Then pour over weak vinegar. Let stand over night. 
Then press out all the vinegar. Take two pounds light 
brown sugar, one gallon strong apple vinegar, one ounce 
celery seed, two ounces tumeric, two ounces white mustard 
seed, small bottle mustard dressing. Boil pickle slowly for 
three-fourths hour, put in jars and cover with the vinegar. 
Seal tight. 

SWEET PICKLE— WATERMELON. 

Pare the green and pink from rind, cut in slices or 
squares.- Put six pounds rind into weak alum and salt wa- 
ter. Let stand twenty-four hours, drain and boil inclear 

153 



water until tender, then cook in a syrup made of three 
pounds of sugar, one gallon apple vinegar, one ounce cinna- 
mon bark, one-half ounce cloves, three or four pieces mace. 
Boil until clear and tender, put in jars and cover With syrup. 
Seal tight. 

^ CHILI SAUCE NO. 1. 

1/2 peck ripe tomatoes. S tablespoons salt. 

4 onions. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

3 pods green pepper. 1 teaspoon allspice. 

4 cups vinegar. 1 teaspoon nutmeg. 
4 tablespoons brown su- 1 teaspoon cloves. 

gar. 

Put spices in bag. Run tomatoes, onions and peppers 
through chopper. Boil all together until thick. Put in jar 
and seal tight. 

• CHILI SAUCE NO. 2. 



1/2 peck tomatoes. 

2 red peppers. 

1 tablespoon nutmeg. 

3 cups vinegar. 

2 tablespoons salt. 


1/2 tablespoon cloves. 
4 tablespoons sugar. 
4 large onions. 
1 tablespoon allspice. 


Peel and chop fine tomatoes with onions. Add spices in 
bag. Boil all together until thick. 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

1 quart tomatoes. 1 tablespoon cloves. 

1 tablespoon salt. 1 tablespoon mustard. 

1 tablespoon pepper. 1 quart vinegar. 
1 tablespoon allspice. 

Let simmer two or three hours ; seal in bottles or jars. 



GOOD CUCUMBER PICKLE. 
I" 
Buy loose cucumber pickle, slice, put layer of cucumber* 
in jar, thick layer of brown sugar, a few pieces of onion 
sliced thin, another layer of cucumbers, sugar and onion 
until jar is filled. Pour over this vinegar enough to cover; 
white mustard and celery seed add to flavor. Let stand 
until well seasoned. ^ 

t> 
154 



DELICIOUS MIXED PICKLE. 

1 quart green tomatoes. 2 large onions. 

1 quart red tomatoes. 1 small head of cabbage. 

2 bunches celery. 2 ripe cucumbers. 
2 red sweet peppers. 

Chop all together and add one-half cup salt, let stand 
until morning and then add two pints vinegar, two pounds 
brown sugar, one teaspoon mustard and one teaspoon black 
pepper. Cook until done and seal. 



PRESERVES 



In making preserves and jellies use the best granulated 
sugar. Select the best fresh fruit, not over ripe. There 
are several ways of making preserves and all are satisfac- 
toiry, but the easiest and quickest way is to cook fruit and 
sugar together, cooking always a small quantity at one time. 
Put in glass jars, cover with melted parafRne and seal tight. 

In makingielly of oranges and apples you can add stoned 
dates or raisins while jelly is cooling. * 

BLACKBERRY JAM. 

Wash and cap berries, run through meat grinder, put 
on to cook with equal proportion of fruit and sugar. Cook 
rapidly from thirty-five to forty minutes. Put in jars and 
seal. Raspberry and strawberry jam are made in the same 
way. 

BRANDIED PEACHES. 

Pare clingstone peaches, one-half pound sugar to one 
pound fruit. Place in alternate layers in stone jar. Cover 
well with Maraschino cherries and juice and fasten top se- 
curely. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES NO. 1. 

Cap fresh ripe strawberries. To each pound of fruit al- 
low one pound sugar. Cook berries until they are tender. 
Put in jars and seal. 

155 



STRAWBERRY PRESERVES NO. 2. 

To three pounds of berries add three pounds sugar. Set 
on very low gas flame or back of range until sugar melts. 
Then boil very rapidly for fifteen minutes, take from fire, 
let cool and put in jars. Cover with melted parafRne and 
seal. 

All small fruit and berries can be made the same way. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

Pare and cut in half, use pound for pound of sugar and 
fruit. Cook until peaches are tender. A few stones dropped 
in peaches while boiling adds to flavor of peaches. Pears 
and apples can be made the same way. 

GRAPE MARMALADE. 

Wash and pick grapes from stem. Put on to cook with 
enough water to nearly cover. When tender run through a 
colander. Use equal proportions of pulp and sugar. Season 
with spices if liked, cook until thick. Put in jars and seal. 

WATERMELON OR CITRON PRESERVES. 

10 lbs. melon rind. J^ oz. alum. 

10 lbs. sugar! V^ cup salt. 

1 cup cinnamon bark. 7 quarts water. 
1,4 lb. ginger root. 

Peel melon rind, cutting off green and pink, cut in any 
shape desired. Put into one gallon water, adding salt and 
alum, and let stand until brittle. Drain and put in vessel. 
Put on with enough water to cover, add ginger, cook until 
tender. Make sirup of sugar water and cinnamon. Drain 
the rind and add to the sirup -With ginger. Cook until sirup 
is thick, from thirty minutes to one hour. Put in jars, let 
cool, cover with paraffine and seal. 

156 



JELLIES. 

To make jelly from any kind of berries or fruit put fruit 
on to cook with water enough to nearly cover.. When tender 
enough to mash well, put in cheese cloth or flannel bag and 
strain. Dip bag in hot water before straining. To every 
cup of juice use same amount of sugar. Put juice on stove; 
heat sugar; when juice boils about twenty minutes add 
sugar. When this boils again skim and try some in saucer. 
If cooked in smaller quantities it jellies quicker and is a 
better color. Put jelly in glasses, cover with melted paraf- 
fine or paper dipped in alcohol. 



CANNING 



Always select perfect fresh fruit and vegetables for this 
purpose. To keep the color and flavor of the fruit is espe- 
cially necessary. Always use utensils that will not dis- 
color the fruit. Also wooden spoon for stirring or handling 
fruit when in hot water or sirup. 

All canned fruits should be put up boiling hot in jars, 
wrapped in paper. Put in a cool, dark place. It is well to 
have your jars filled with hot water, rubbers in place, tops 
in perfect condition, sealing wax and all other necessary 
things ready for work. 

HOW TO CAN TOMATOES IN GLASS. 

Select fresh, ripe, firm tomatoes. Grade for ripeness, 
size and quality. 

Blanch — Place tomatoes in wire basket or cheese cloth 
bag, dip them into boiling water for one minute or until 
skin breaks. 

Cold Dip — ^Plunge them into cold water as^soon as they 
are taken from the hot water. The cold dip makes them 
easier to handle, separates the skin from the pulp and coag- 
ulates the coloring matter so it stays near the surface, giv- 
ing them a rich red color. Cut out the core before remov- 
ing the skin, as there is less danger of breaking the skin. 

Sterilize jars, tops and rubbers. Pack tomatoes whole. 
In quart jars add two level teaspoons of two-thirds sugar 

157 



and one-third salt. Strain soft tomatoes, add one cup of 
juice. Place on rubbers ; see that they fit up close. If using 
Mason jars, place screw top on lightly, that the air may 
escape when heated. If using Economy jars, put the cover 
in place and place the clamp on. If E. Z. Seal jars, put the 
cover in place and leave up the spring clamp. 

Processing — If you have no canning outfit place a false 
bottom in a lard stand or deep kettle. This may be made 
of poultry netting or laths, fill canner with cold water and 
place in jars, do not let water come above the neck of jars, 
bring to boiling point or 212 degrees, then boil hard for 
thirty minutes. A wire basket or bucket that will fit in 
boiler will add much to the convenience, large holes should 
be cut in the bucket, the jars can be lifted out more easily. 
Throw a bath towel over jars when lifting them from boil- 
ing water. Screw top on tight at once, press down clamp 
of E. Z. Seal. Place away in a cool, dark place. Do not 
place them close together or in a warm room, as they will 
hold the heat and continue cooking. A steam cooker may 
be used instead of hot water ; both if preferred. — ^Virginia P. 
Moore, State Agent in charge of Girls' Canning Club, from 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

TO CAN CORN. 

One cup water, eight cups corn, one teaspoon salt, two 
teaspoons sugar to every quart corn. Mix thoroughly salt, 
sugar, water and com. Place tops on loosely. Do not screw 
tight. Steam as tomatoes, allowing four hours in all. Steam 
three hours and then screw on top firmly and let steam an 
hour longer, adding more hot water if necessary. 

Always can corn very soon after it is pulled ; within an 
hour is advisable. Select the firm, full grains before they 
begin to harden, as this is the period of greatest sugar con- 
tained. Husk and brush silks off with a stiff brush. Cut 
grains with sharp knife, scrape lightly, put in jar until full. 

Com, peas and lima beans are very hard to keep. For 
this reason it is better to cook an hour each day for four 
successive days. Loosen tops before each cooking. After 
each steaming screw top tight again. 

158 



STRING BEANS. 

String beans and soak in cold salt water in proportion 
of one teaspoon salt to one quart water. Let stand fifteen 
minutes, restringing if necessary. Beans may be broken or 
kept whole. Then tie in cheese cloth bag, scald in boiling 
water for five minutes, plunge into cold water so as to 
handle. Pack jars tight, fill with clear cold water, put on 
rubbers, seal well and cook as tomatoes for fifty-five min- 
utes. 

Lima beans, peas, succotash and okra can be canned by 
the same process. 

PEARS, PEACHES AND APPLES. 

Cut firm peaches in half, also pears and apples. Make 
a sirup, fill jars and steam as tomatoes, using one pound 
sugar and one pint water; make sirup and pour over fruit 
while warm. Steam fifteen minutes. 

For all small berries and fruit use same process. They 
require less time in steaming. 

LEFTOVERS. 

Many dainty dishes can be prepared with cold meats, 
vegetables and otheHthings if we would only make a study 
of these little things. It is astonishing also how much we 
save in making all of the good things we have serve a 
double purpose. If we have steak, the bones and trimmings 
make delicious soup. Put on with water, the stock can be 
made, and if we do not need it today, it may help out to- 
morrow. If the steak should be tough and a portion left 
over, grind, add a little grated onion, lemon juice, put in 
pan, run into oven and season with a little butter. 

Stale bread crumbs are suitable for bread puddings, 
dressings and filhngs for scalloped dishes, omelets, griddle 
cakes, etc. Dried crumbs are prepared from crusts and 
small pieces of hard bread dried in a cool oven until a light 
brown. Roll thin on a pastry board or put through a meat 
grinder. Sift crumbs. Use them to cover articles of food 

159 



cooked in deep fat. Keep dried crumbs in jars, tie pieces of 
muslin over jars and keep in a dry place. Whole slices of 
stale bread may be used for toast. 

When fried or stewed corn is left from a meal, mix with 
a' little flour, sweet milk and egg. Drop in a little hot but- 
ter and fry brown on each side. Good for breakfast with 
crisp bacon. 

When pieces of broiled or fried bacon are left it can be 
ground or mashed and fol4ed in an omelet, or put on toast 
with sauce. 

When yolks are left it is nice to saute in butter, turning 
over several times until well done. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Serve hot on small rounds of buttered toast. Be 
careful to keep them in shape. 

Another nice way to use yolks when left from dishes re- 
quiring only whites. Have water on stove boiling, drop in 
yolks either in shell or just as they are. After cooking, 
thoroughly drain, run through ricer and bake with white 
sauce in oven, using one cup for eight or ten yolks. 

Potatoes can always be utilized, and they make pretty, 
wholesome dishes, combined with cheese, onion and thick 
white sauce, also eggs. 

MACARONI ITALIAN. 

Left over macaroni and cheese can be made Italian by 
pouring over it strained tomato juice, a little onion, salt and 
cayenne. Stew until well blended. 



160 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Page. 

Introductory Instructions 5-6 

Dish Washing 6 

Hints to Housekeepers 7 

Suggestions V-S 

French Words in Cooking : 8-9 

Weights and Measures 1 '- 9-10 



Cereals 11 

Eggs 12-16 

Cocktails 16-17 

Soups . 18-22 

Bread to Serve with Soups 23 

Fish and Oysters 24-27 

Entrees ^ - 28-31 

Meats 32-34 

Poultry and Meats 35-43 

Croquettes, Sauces, Etc. 44-50 

Sandwiches 51-55 

Box Lunches 55-56 

Breads 57-64 

Salads and Dressings 65-80 

Vegetables 81-91 

Combination Vegetables, Meat and Eggs 92-95 

Fruits 96-98 

Cake-Making - GD-100 

Directions for Making 100-115 

White Cake ^ 100-102 

Yellow Cake 102-103 

Pound Cake 103 

Chocolate Cake 104-105 

Fruit Cake 105-106 

President's Cake 107 

Spice Cake 107-108 

Sponge Cake 109-111 

Small Confections 111-115 

Icings, Fillings, Etc. 116-120 

Puddings and Custards 121-136 

Frozen Desserts 137-143 

Beverages 144-146 

Candy 147-151 

Pickles 152-154 

Preserves 155-156 

Canning 157-159 

Leftovers 159-160 






.^'\ 








k''!^\/ %.*^-^%o'> V^.«* V*^\o' 




























/**o-«'*V^ V*'^-*%^'^ V'^^^'V^"^ ^'o.**'^^V^ 



•^ A^ *rf(V%^ 










%.** •• 
















^^v 
^^'t 



: ^^"^^ ^v/Kw*- .^^-va. 



'•♦.A >*\.i:^/'V, c°*.i^.>o /..ij^.-^-e 




" •'ov* i'iM^^. '^^^ '\ 



^°-^*^ . 



'• »bv* 



., /°*_ V 



J-°'-^. .- 






-••*/ '^^'^^St-^^^ %*^-'*/ V*^\-?,^^ ' 



/>S^ 



-*p^, 



v«^ 









<5, *r:^* A 



^o^ :SII^^^< '-^^n^' ov^^^ia'- ^^<:^^ 



^"^ '^^t "Cos 










••* *b. 












1- '^o^ 



r,'''.6' %''7fr'\^'^'' %,'^r-^\^> "V-^;^'*,**'^ ' 



V* • 



^^ /Jlife'v %.** .-Mfe". X.^"^ /Jlfe': **..** .V 

















^* .^"^ ^^ '^yasf's* . ^^ ^^ -: 








..'^"/.^^\ v.^^ .^i^w^w .s'^"' /^l&\ ^^.,^^ .*:^V/^ 



,IaJ AJyi^'^) ~)7)f^ 'LU^jc'J^iXJi (JuJ^ 



•'; //^"^ 



'U .)^.UtI<* 



MRS. WILSON'S NEW 
COOK BOOK 



(revised) 



By 
Mrs. W. H. (Betty Lyles) Wilson 



A COM PLETE 



Collection of Original Recipes 

and Useful Household 

Information 



ILLUSTRATED 



(FOURTH EDITION) 



FOSTER & PARKES COMPANY 

Nashville, Tennessee 

1920 






rj 



1' <y 



Copyrighted by 

Mrs. W. H. (Betty Lyles) Wilson 

1914 

OCT ID/3f? 



CCT 15 rB20 



This little book I dedicate to my daughter, Mary, who 
has inherited my love for the work. She began decorating 
cakes at the age of three and since that time has been able 
to make any flower without practice. 

In offering my recipes to the public I give unreservedly 
my highest and best knowledge of the art. I do not claim 
originality for all of the recipes. My friends will recognize 
their own contributions; but I can conscientiously recom- 
mend them, having thoroughly tested their merits. 

MRS. W. H. (BETTY LYLES) WILSON. 




MARY WILSON DECORATING A CAKE. 



Introductory Instructions. 



Mark Twain says : "We eat to live and not live to eat." 



The gospel of good cooking needs many evangelists. In 
the outset I want to tell you its foundation stone. It is 
this : to make real good things you must make them of real 
good things. 

Poor cooking can spoil the best material, but not even 
the best cooking can make things that are initially bad, 
good. 

It cannot redeem soured fruit, wilted vegetables, stringy 
blue meat, scrawny fowls nor milk and butter below grade. 
Neither can it freshen aged eggs, lighten clammy flour nor 
add one jot or tittle to third-rate flavoring. 

This ought to go without saying, but I find people hug- 
ging the idea that anything will do to cook, if you only 
know how. This is the point of wisdom — to buy and cook 
only the best; not always the most expensive — sirloin and 
porterhouse steaks are always high, but the same prime 
animal that supplies these cuts supplies other less expen- 
sive cuts of a good quality for their grade — always be sure 
that whatever you get is the best. It is better to have good 
bread than poor cake — you can never make good cake out 
of stale eggs, inferior flour and bad butter; you can never 
make good biscuit or light rolls out of clammy flour — so 
you see the gospel of good buying precedes the gospel of 
good cooking. 

Economy is a leading aim with me, therefore I warn all 
housekeepers against the extravagance of buying unfit 
things. 

There is another point: The wisest of us cannot im- 
prove on nature ; the closer we keep to her actual flavors 
the better food we serve. Of course we can combine flavors, 
thereby giving the species of variety. 

Dish gravy or pan gravy well serv^ed cannot be improved 
upon — this for roasts, of course. Broiled things — fish, mut- 
ton and so on — need sauces rich and smooth, and as you 



love your kind, let them never taste of the rancid fat, the 
uncooked flour nor the milk that went into their making. 

The fat we use in cooking should be one of the most im- 
portant considerations. 

DISH-WASHING. 

Collect all dishes, scraping and rinsing them well, and 
pile all of a kind together near the dishpan. 

Wipe the table to have a place to put clean dishes. 

Rinse cups and dishes that have held milk, egg and 
starchy foods in cold water before washing. 

Soak utensils used for sugary substances in hot water. 

Greasy dishes and those blackened should be wiped with 
clean paper. 

Have the dishpan half full of hot, soapy water; a rins- 
ing pan at the left of dishpan. 

Dish-towels and dish-cloths should be neatly hemmed, 
and after each using should be washed and hung in the air 
and sun to dry. 

Do not waste soap by leaving it in the water. 

Wash dishes in the following order: Glass, silver, cups, 
saucers, plates, larger dishes and platters ; last, tin and 
cooking utensils. 

Steel knives, forks and pans should be scoured, rub- 
bing with a cork. 

The cogs of a Dover egg beater should not be put in 
water; wipe with a damp cloth. Wooden or bone handles 
of knives or forks should not be put in water. 

Change dish water before it becomes cold or greasy. 

When all dishes are washed and wiped with clean hands, 
put them in their proper places. 

Wash the dishpan, soap dish and sink in hot, soapy 
water. 

Hot water poured down the drip pipe of ice box will 
keep it sweet. 

Cleaning Spinach. Adding a little salt to first water 
will remove grit. 

Salt. To keep it dry put shaker in covered jelly glass. 

A raw potato cut in half will take away the burnt taste 
of vegetables or soup. 

Spice in a tea ball for flavoring is much better than in 
a muslin bag. 

C 



HINTS TO THE HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Clean up the kitchen as you go along. Wash and dry- 
all utensils as soon as you are through using them. The 
dishes that must be left, stack in a large enamel bucket, 
either in cold or warm water. The bucket takes up less 
room and dishes are better covered with water. 

Never put greasy spoons, knives or forks around on 
stove or table ; have saucer to lay them in. 

All dough and egg dishes must be soaked in cold water, 
as hot water cooks the egg or flour on them. 

Save all the paper bags that come to you for putting 
over fruit jars. 

Light bread, cracker dust and biscuit for bread crumbs. 
Light bread is preferable. Let stand in warmer or oven 
until dry and grind. Keep in closed glass jars. 

Eggs for crumbing are beaten enough to mix yolks 
and whites well and add water or milk, two tablespoons of 
liquid to each egg. 

Larding is drawing small pieces of salt pork through 
the surface of lean meat. Trussing is shaping fowls for 
baking or boiling. 

Boning is freeing the flesh from the bone, leaving meat 
whole. 

Never add all the sugar to eggs at one time ; it should 
be put in a little at a time. 

To whip cream, put pan over another pan filled with 
crushed ice. 

Always dip molds in ice water before putting in jelly. 

Orange peeling burned on stove for disagreeable odors. 

Kerosene will surely drive away ants. Brush around 
rollers of refrigerators and kitchen furniture with the 
kerosene. 

Save lemon rinds for boiling with cup-towels. It cleans 
and whitens them, also removes any discoloration i'roni 
cooking vessels. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

Never take time to grate chocolate. Put the desired 
quantity in a granite or porcelain saucepan and set in a 
vessel of hot water until melted. 



To prevent eggs from breaking: When boiling eggs the 
white often comes through the shell and spoils the taste of 
the egg. This may be prevented if a tablespoon of salt is 
added to water before boiling. 

Removing stains from aluminum: Discolorations of 
aluminum utensils may be removed by using four table- 
spoons of oxalic acid crystals in a gallon of water, boiling 
not more than five minutes. Before using, wash with clean 
hot water and soap. 

When cooking very sour fruit, such as cherries or cran- 
berries, if you add a little salt to each quart it will take 
only about half as much sugar. 

When cutting fresh bread, dip knife in hot water. 

If grease is spilled on kitchen floor, cold water should 
be poured on immediately. The water will harden grease 
and prevent it from soaking into floor. It may then be 
scraped up with knife. 

To prevent flies from entering a house, brush screen 
doors with kerosene. 

Sprinkle the cellar often with chloride of lime and it will 
be kept free from rats. 

Never keep bread and cake in same box, as the cake 
loses its flavor and tastes like bread. To keep cake fresh 
keep a small apple in cake box. 

To thicken sweet sauce mix flour or cornstarch with 
sugar dry to prevent lumping. 

FRENCH WORDS IN COOKING. 

Au gratin: Dishes prepared with sauce and crumbs and 
baked. 

Bisque: A white soup made of shell fish. 

To Blanch: To place any article on fire till it boils 
then plunge in cold water. To remove the skin by immers- 
ing in boiling water. 

Consomme: Clear soup or bouillon boiled down very 
rich. 

Croustades: Fried forms of bread to serve minces or 
other meats upon. 

Entree: A small dish usually served between the 
courses at dinner. 

8 



Fondant: Sugar boiled and beaten to a creamy paste. 

Ragout: A rich, brown stew with mushrooms and 
vegetables, etc. 

Rissole: Rich mince of meat or fish rolled in thin pas- 
try and fried. 

Roux : A cooked mixture of butter and flour for thick- 
ening soups and stews. 

Souffle: A very light, much whipped up pudding or 
omelet. 

Timbale: A sort of pie in a mold. 

To test fat, when it begins to smoke drop in slices of 
Irish potato; when it sinks it is not hot enough; when it 
does not sink at all but browns in a minute the fat is ready 
for crumbed articles, such as croquettes. It can be clarified 
with raw pieces of potato. Heat the fat gradually until 
the potato browns. 

Boiling is allowing the article to be cooked in water 
after it has reached the boiling point. 

Steaming is cooking by exposing the food to steam. 

Stewing is boiling the food in a small quantity of water. 

Baking is cooking food inside the oven. 

Broiling is quickly searing or browning the food before 
the cooking begins in order to shut in the juices. 

Fricaseeing is sauting food, then stewing. 

Sauting is frying in a small quantity of fat, cooking 
food on one side and then on the other. 

Frying is cooking food by immersing in hot fat. 

1 level teaspoon baking powder to 1 level cup of flour. 

1 level teaspoon cream of tartar to 1 cup of flour. 

14 teaspoon of soda to 1 cup of flour. 

1 teaspoon of soda to 1 cup of molasses. 

2 heaping tablespoons of cornstarch to 1 qt. of milk. 
11/4 oz. gelatin to 1 qt. of liquid. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

All measurements, level full. One egg weighs 2 ounces ; 
six whites, 6 ounces. 
2 cups lard make 1 pound. 
2 cups butter make 1 pound. 
4 cups pastry flour make 1 pound. 



3% cups entire wheat flour make 1 pound. 

41/2 cups Graham flour make 1 pound. 

4 1-3 cups coffee make 1 pound. 

2 2-3 cups cornmeal make 1 pound. 

4 1-3 cups coee make 1 pound. 

2 cups granulated sugar make 1 pound. 

2 2-3 cups powdered sugar make 1 pound. 

31/2 cups confectioner's sugar make 1 pound. 

2 2-3 cups brown sugar make 1 pound. 

2 cups chopped meat make 1 pound. 

1% cups rice make 1 pound. 

2 cups rasins (packed) make 1 pound, 

214 cups currants make 1 pound. 

2 cups stale bread crumbs make 1 pound. 

8 large eggs make 1 pound. 

2 teaspoons butter make 1 ounce. 
4 teaspoons flour make 1 ounce. 

6 tablespoons baking powder make half ounce. 

3 teaspoons make one tablespoon. 
14 tablespoons liquid make 1 cup. 

16 tablespoons dry ingredients make 1 cup. 

BOILED SUGARS FOR CONFECTIONS 

Eleven tests are considered for boiling: 

Small thread 215° F. 

Large thread 217° F. 

Pearl 220° F. 

Large pearl 222° F. 

The blow 230° F. 

The feather 232° F. 

Soft ball 238° F. 

Hard ball 248° F. 

Small crack 290° F. 

Crack 310° F. 

Caramel stage 350° F. 



10 



1^ <^X^J1P^«UWk.L I 



CEREALS. 



Add cereals slowly to boiling salted water. See that 
the water does not stop boiling, Eoil 10 minutes to break 
the cellulose. Cook over hot water from 1 to 4 hours. 
Some require even longer. Fireless cooker is the best way 
to cook breakfast oats. If eaten with nuts, dates, figs, 
etc., cereals are masticated and the food value improved. 

OATMEAL AND CRACKED WHEAT. 

Have 3 cups water boiling. Pour into this slowly so as 
not to stop motion of water 1 cup oatmeal, 1 teaspoon salt. 
Cook for 15 minutes, and then put over steam and let cook 
slowly for 3 or 4 hours. 

For fireless cooker, put on fire and while cooking heat 
stone, put in cooker and let remain all night. It will be 
delicious for breakfast. 

FARINA. 

1 cup farina. 4 cups liquid. 

Cook half hour. Serve with cream and sugar. 

CORNMEAL MUSH. 

4 cups boiling water. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup commeal. 

Boil 10 minutes, stirring constantly, then longer in 
double boiler. 

STEAMED RICE. 

2 cups boiling water. 1 cup rice. 
2 teaspoons salt. 

Pick and wash well. Put rice and water into vessel, 
cook until rice is soft, about one hour. 

HOMINY. 
Three cups liquid to one cup hominy. Cook slowly tor 
several hours. 

GRITS. 

Wash and pick carefully. 

2 cups grits. Salt to taste. 

3 cups water. 

Cook in boiling water for 1 hour. 

11 



EGGS. 



BOILED EGGS. 

Boil 25 to 30 minutes. 

Hard cooked eggs. 

1 pt. boiling water to an egg. 

Put egg carefully in boiling water, cover and let stand 
on back of range 45 minutes. If soft cooked allow six 
minutes. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Break one egg at a time in a shallow sauce pan of hot 
salted water, allowing one teaspoonful of salt to a pint of 
water. Cook until the white is firm. Lift out carefully 
with skeleton spoon, sprinkle with pepper and salt and a 
bit of butter on each egg. Serve in warm platter. Eggs 
must be very fresh to poach nicely. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS NO. 1. 

Put two tablespoons butter in sauce pan. Break six 
eggs into a bowl. When butter has melted pour in the 
eggs. Stir from bottom and cook until eggs are creamy. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS NO. 2. 

Break 4 eggs into bowl, 1 spoon butter, 1/2 cup rich milk 
or water, salt and pepper. Beat eggs, add liquid and sea- 
soning. Turn into hot saucepan with the butter melted. 
Stir until set. Serve on platter or on toast. Any chopped 
cold meat may be added to this before cooking, or served 
with it when ready for table. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Butter shirred egg dishes. Break one or two eggs in 
each dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Run in oven to 
cook. When nearly cooked put a small piece of butter on 
each egg. Serve in the dishes in which they are cooked. 

12 



SAUTED EGGS. 

Put tablespoon butter in sauce pan, when melted break 
one egg at a time. Don't let butter brown. If eggs are to 
be cooked on both sides turn with spatula and cook through. 
Nice to serve with boiled ham or bacon. If to be served 
this way cook meat first and keep on warm platter. Cook 
eggs in same pan in drippings from the meat. 

EGG NESTS. 

Have ready pretty rounds of buttered toast, one egg 
for each piece of toast. Separate eggs carefully, keeping 
yolks in shape and each in a small butter plate. Beat whites 
stiff with pinch of salt. Pile on bread to form nest, leav- 
ing a place in center for the yolks. Slide this into the nest 
of white. Season with a bit of butter, pepper and salt. 
Cook in oven until set. Serve on individual plates gar- 
nished with parsley. Crisp bacon is nice to serve with this. 

BAKED EGGS NO. 1. 

There are pretty shapes on the market now for eggs. 
Some heart, round, and some are fluted. If you haven't 
the shapes, break the eggs into the fluted muffin rings, 
brushing each with melted butter. Run in oven and cook 
to the consistency desired. Place on toast cut to fit the 
shape of egg. Garnish with crisp pieces of bacon and a 
sprig of water cress. It would be nice to put spoon of 
cream sauce on each egg. 

BAKED EGGS NO. 2. 

Break one half doz. eggs into baking dish, sprinkle with 
cheese. Pour over them 1 cup cream sauce, sprinkle top 
with buttered bread crumbs, sprinkle again with cheese and 
cook twenty minutes. 

CODDLED EGGS. 

Good for children and sick people. 

Break one egg into porcelain cup. Pour over this enough 
boiling water to cover well. Let stand covered until white 
is set. Drain off water and serve seasoned to taste — in 
cup or slide on buttered toasted squares of bread. 

1.3 



DAISY EGGS. 

Separate the whites and yolks of 6 hard boiled eggs. 
Save the whites of 2 to cut into strips for daisies. Make 
1 pint of white sauce. Have 1 cup of fresh buttered bread 
crumbs ready. While warm run whites through ricer, and 
then yolks, keep separate. Add whites to sauce, put alter- 
nate layers of sauce, yolks, and sprinkle with crumbs. Cover 
the top with crumbs, yolks and bits of butter. With strips 
of white form daisies with yellow for centers. Run into 
stove and let season for 10 or 15 minutes. It will be best 
to decorate after taken from stove. 

These can be made in ramekins with daisy on top of 
each one. When ready to serve garnish with parsley and 
serve on plate with narrow strips of bread toasted. Good 
with fish or can be used as entree. 

These same eggs may be used for breakfast on toast. 
Put sauce on bread and sprinkle yolks on top. 

DRESSED EGGS. 

Cut hard boiled eggs in halves, remove yolk — season 
with salt, pepper, a little made mustard, grated onion to 
taste. Celery salt is also nice. Roll in balls and put back 
into the halves of whites. 

Nice for picnic lunch, twisted in tissue or wax paper. 
A pretty dish served on lettuce. 

Season yolks highly in same way, press back into whites 
to form an egg. Roll this in ground ham mixed with an 
egg and bread crumbs. Form as croquette and fry in fat. 

HARD BOILED EGGS WITH WHITE SAUCE. 
Hard boiled eggs. Peel carefully and cut in halves. 
Have ready 1 pint of white sauce. Cover the eggs in bak- 
ing dish with white sauce seasoned highly — a little grated 
onion if liked — grated cheese may be sprinkled over top. 
Run in stove to season. 

CREOLE EGGS. 

Cook eggs as above — run through ricer and put alter- 
nate layers of egg and Creole sauce. Sprinkle top with 
buttered bread crumbs and bake brown in stove. 

Hard cooked eggs are nice served whole with hot Creole 
sauce. Garnish dish with parsley. 

14 



CREOLE SAUCE. 

1 can tomato soup. 1 stick celery if desired. 

1 green pepper. 1 tablespoon flour. 

V2 small onion. 2 tablespoons butter. 

Put butter in hot spider, add onion, when brown add 
flour and pepper, then soup. Cook until thick. Season 
highly with salt and pepper. It is best to let pepper stand 
in boiling water ten minutes to soften before cutting fine. 

POACHED EGGS WITH CELERY. 

2 cups celery. 4 pieces toasted bread. 

4 eggs. 1 cup cream sauce. 

Cut celery in half-inch pieces, cook until tender in salted 
water. Have toast ready, dip in hot, salted water or milk 
for an instant, spread lightly with butter, while eggs are 
cooking. Drain celery, put into white sauce, spread on 
bread and put an egg on top of each piece. (Have a little 
salt in the water or milk in which the bread ia dipped.) 

PUFFY OMELET. 

4 eggs, beaten separately. 1 tablespoon butter. 

2 tablespoons water. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat yolks light, add water and seasoning. (A pinch 
of baking powder added to yolks will keep omelet from 
falling.) Fold this into the well-beaten whites. Have but- 
ter melted in sauce pan. Run into hot oven, cook until 
eggs are set. Grated cheese can be sprinkled between 
when folded for platter. Always cut edges when ready to 
fold. This omelet may be served in a variety of ways. 
Minced bacon can be put between folds, garnished with 
parsley and thin slices of ham. 

Mushrooms can be used for garnish, also oysters. Maca- 
roni in short pieces may be served around omelet with to- 
mato sauce. 

EGG SOUFFLE. 

1 pt. milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 kitchen spoon flour. 

Cream butter and flour and put in milk, cook until thick. 
When cool, add beaten yolks of 5 eggs, then add well beaten 
whites; cook inside stove in pan of water. 

15 



FRENCH, OMELET. 

3 eggs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 1 scant teaspoon sugar. 

3 tablespoons water. Dash salt. 

Beat yolks very light, add liquid and seasoning. Fold 
into well beaten whites. Put butter into saucepan, brush 
sides with butter also. Cook slowly until brown, moving 
pan all the time. Cut edge with knife when ready to fold. 
Serve on oblong dish garnished with parsley and small sau- 
sage balls. 

EGGS AND BACON WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

French Style. 

6 slices of bacon. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup milk. 1/2 teaspoon flour. 

6 hard-boiled eggs. Dash of cayenne. 

Make sauce with butter, milk and flour. Cook bacon 
crisp, cut eggs in half, pour sauce over just before serving. 



COCKTAILS. 



Cocktails are served at the beginning of a dinner or 
luncheon. They are usually made by combining two kinds 
of fruits or meat and vegetables. The fruit cocktails are 
served in the fruit pieces — sometimes with a little grape 
juice over fruit. 

Meat cocktails are served in sauces to suit the taste. 
Sauces are on sale already prepared. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

One-half dozen blue points in cocktail glasses, sur- 
rounded with ice. Pour over each 3 tablespoons tomato 
catsup, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoon strained to- 
mato juice, 1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 1 drop ta- 
basco. 

Mushroom and sweetbread served in tomato cocktail 
sauce. 

Crab meat served in same way. 

Lobster in tomato sauce with slice of lemon. 

16 



FRUIT COCKTAILS. 
1 qt. strawberries. 1 qt. sugar. 

Wash and cap berries, sprinkled over sugar, let stand 
an hour; mash fine, put in cocktail glasses, serve with one 
spoon pineapple sherbet colored green. 

Cut balls from melon with vegetable scoop. Fill half 
cantaloupe, cut in points. 

Pink raspberries in claret syrup. 

Grapefruit in small pieces with maraschino cherries and 
sirup. A little sherry makes it better. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR FIRST COURSE. 

Large strawberries stuffed with little strips of pine- 
apple. Cut with sharp knife a cavity in the stem end of 
a large berry. Put in the pineapple and roll in coarse granu- 
lated sugar. Place 6 or 7 on pretty curly lettuce and serve. 

Green grapes served in tiny baskets lined with grape 
leaves. 

One ring pineapple served on lettuce leaf with grapes 
or cherries in center. 

Stuff olives with Neufchatel cheese, put on small rounds 
of toasted bread and lay the red pimento taken from cavity 
around as a border. 

Orange basket filled with meat of orange and some other 
fruit. 

Sherbet with strawberry sauce. 

Pears frozen in can — slice and serve with raspberry 
sauce. 



17 

(2) 



SOUPS. 



Soups are divided into two classes — soups with stock 
and soups without stock. 

Beef is usually the foundation of brown stock. Bits 
of ham, bacon and veal can be used, also the bones of fowls. 
Meat, bone and fat make g'ood stock. . 

White stock is made from chicken, fish or any light 
colored meat. The meat must be taken from the bone, let 
stand in cold water, heat slowly, and when it reaches the 
simmering point, let stay there for several hours, never 
allowing it to boil. 

Use white of eggs to clarify stock, one egg to one quart. 
Let heat with stock and stand on stove ten minutes before 
straining. 

BROWN STOCK. 

3 pounds meat. 2 quarts cold water. 

3 pepper corns. 3 cloves. 

1 bay leaf. 1 teaspoon thyme. 

1 sprig parsley. 1 pt. chopped vegetables. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Cut meat in small pieces. Let stand in the cold water 
one hour, in the kettle ready for cooking. Take out a few 
pieces of the meat, put on spider with melted butter or 
fat from meat and let brown. Add to the above and let 
simmer four hours. Add seasonings and vegetables and let 
simmer another hour. When cold the grease vv^ill rise to 
the surface ; take off when ready for use. The stock forms 
a jelly-like substance. 

WHITE STOCK. 

1 large chicken. 2 qts. water. 

1 teaspoon salt. V^ cup celery, chopped fine. 

1 onion. 

Cut chicken into pieces, put in the two quarts of water, 
add salt and let simmer for several hours, or until per- 
fectly cooked. Add celery and onion and simmer one-half 

18 



hour longer. Strain and it is ready for use. The meat 
can be used for salad, hash or creamed chicken. 

The fireless cooker is a great help in making stocks, 
soups and all meats that require long cooking. 

BOUILLON. 

Bouillon is brown soup stock clarified and served in bouil- 
lon cups. 

CONSOMME. 
Consomme is a combination of two stocks clarified, 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

When cooking chicken for salad use stock for soup. 
Add to one quart of white stock one-half cup of rice, a 
little onion. Season highly and serve with brown toast. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

1 pt. oysters. 1 pt. sweet milk. 

1 pt. white sauce. 

Make sauce; add milk. Put into this a little grated 
onion and celery, not enough to tell what it is. When well 
blended add oysters and let stand on stove until oysters 
curl, which will require only a few minutes after they be- 
come heated. Serve hot with toasted small butter crackers. 

OYSTER BISQUE. 

1/^ pt. celery. 1 qt. milk. 

1 pt. oysters. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. Salt and pepper to taste. 

1 pt. water. 

Chop celery fine and boil one-half hour in pint of water. 
Cut oysters fine and cook ten minutes in their own liquor. 
Rub flour and butter together in double boiler. Add quart 
of milk gradually. Add celery and oysters to milk. Sea- 
son and cook twenty minutes. Strain. Serve in bouillon 
cups with one spoon whipped cream on each cup. 

19 



OXTAIL SOUP. 

1 oxtail. 4 qts. of water. 

1 lb. lean beef. Thyme, parsley, pepper 

4 carrots. and salt. 

3 onions. 

Cut tail at joints. Fry brown in good fat. Fry onion 
and two carrots sliced in drippings. Put all in soup kettle 
with water and beef cut in pieces. Grate the other carrots 
over them. Cook slowly for four hours. Thicken with 
brown flour mixed with a little water. Strain and serve 
with crisp crackers. 

CREAM SOUPS. 
A Nice Foundation for all Cream Soups. 

I find this the most satisfactory way to make any kind 
of cream soups. Use the following proportions: 

1 pt. sweet milk. 2 tablespoons butter. 

1 heaping tablespoon flour. 

Melt butter in double boiler. Add flour and blend well. 
Then add milk, a little at the time. Stir constantly until 
thick and there is no raw taste of flour. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP. 

1 pt. sweet milk. 1 small onion, grated. 

1 cup creamed Irish po- 1 stalk celery, cut fine. 

tatoes. 2 yolks of eggs. 
1 pt. cream sauce. 

Have sauce warm and add potatoes while warm. When 
thoroughly blended add milk, onion, celery, and just before 
serving add the beaten yolks of the eggs. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 
One large stalk of celery cut in small pieces. Cook 
until tender, in salt water, using two pints. When per- 
fectly done run through colander. Add to the white sauce 
with a little grated onion and seasoning. 

PEA SOUP. 
Drain liquor from one can of peas, cook the peas in two 
pints of cold water or chicken stock twenty minutes. Press 
through sieve. Add to the cream sauce. A little onion 
flavors nicely. Serve with one spoon of whipped cream. 

20 



ALMOND BISQUE. 

2 pts. milk. 1 heaping spoon flour. 

i/o pt. blanched almonds, 1 tablespoon butter, 
browned and ground. 

Cook butter, flour and milk until thick. Add almonds 
while fresh and warm. Serve with whipped cream on 
each cup. 

CREAM OF SPHAGHETTI. 

1 cup spaghetti, small V2 onion, grated fine. 

pieces. 1 pt. cream sauce. 

3 cups white stock. 

Cook spaghetti in boiling, salted water. Drain off wa- 
ter and add heated stock. Gradually add one pint of cream 
sauce. Season, and, if desired, add the beaten yolk of two 
eggs or serve with one hard-boiled yolk in each bowl. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

1 qt. can of tomatoes. 1 pt. cream sauce. 

1 cup water. 1 pt. milk. 

Turn tomatoes into spider. Stew with one cup of water 
until soft enough to mash through strainer. Add one 
scant teaspoon of soda to tomatoes before taking from fire. 
Have cream sauce ready. Add cup of milk to sauce and 
then tomatoes. Stir until well blended. Serve with cracker 
dust. The water can be left out of tomatoes if they have 
plenty of liquid. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

1 can asparagus. 1 pt. cream sauce. 

2 pts. water or white stock. 

Cook asparagus in v/ater ten minutes. Before putting 
asparagus in water, with scissors cut the tiny flowers from 
tips; save to put in soup when ready to serve. Press 
asparagus through sieve. Add to the warm sauce. Add 
a little grated onion if liked. When well blended, seasoned 
and ready to serve, add the flowers in each bowl of soup. 
Whipped cream is nice to put in soup just as it goes to the 
table. Sprinkle with tiny bits of parsley. 

21 



VEGETABLE SOUP. 

1 qt. stock. 1/2 cup rice. 

1 cup tomatoes. 4 pods okra. 

1/2 cup Irish potatoes. 1 cup cabbage. 

1/2 cup celery. 1 carrot. 

1 onion. 

Chop all vegetables together. Add to heated stock and 
cook until well done. If you haven't stock, cook one soup 
bone until tender and add water. This makes a meal with 
bread and butter and light dessert. 

CHICKEN GUMBO. 

1 chicken. 3 qts. water. 

1 doz. pods okra. 6 large tomatoes. 

3 ears corn. 2 Irish potatoes. 
1 onion. 

Cut chicken ready to fry. Put four slices of bacon in 
spider and fry out the grease. Lift out bacon, dredge 
chicken with flour and saute in bacon grease. Pour over 
chicken one quart of boiling water and cook until it falls 
from bone. While chicken is cooking put on vegetables 
with two quarts of water and cook until done. When 
chicken is ready, cut fine and add with liquor to the vege- 
tables. Thicken, season and serve. 

CHOWDER. 

Fispi Chowder. 

3 slices salt pork. 2 lbs. fish (cod or haddock). 
6 small Irish potatoes. 1 qt. can tomatoes. 

4 small onions. Salt and pepper. 

Cut pork into dice and fry crisp and brown. Turn into 
kettle. Cut potatoes and put in also half of onion, cut fine. 
Lay the pieces of fresh fish (cod or haddock) in kettle and 
put rest of onion over it. Season well and pour over just 
enough water to cover fish. Pour over all the can of to- 
matoes and cover closely. Cook until potatoes are done. 
Add to this two quarts of milk and let it scald well again. 
Serve with tomato catsup. Clam and oyster chowder can 
be made the same way, adding oysters and clams just be- 
fore serving. Cook juice with vegetables. 

22 



GARNISHES FOR SOUPS. 
Grind chicken, fish or oysters fine. Add white of one 
€gg. Work with fork until smooth. Add a little cream. 
Season. Roll into little balls and poach in boiling water. 
Drop in soup before sending to the table. 

NOODLES. 

1 egg. Flour to make dough. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. 

Roll thin. Cut in very narrow strips with sharp knife. 
Drop in boiling water. Cook twenty minutes. Drain and 
add to soup. 

Yolks of eggs hard boiled, sliced or run through ricer 
makes a pretty garnish for yellow soups. Lemon sliced thin 
looks pretty and suits some soups. 



BREAD TO SERVE WITH SOUPS. 



CROUTONS. 
Small squares of light bread, either fried or toasted in 
melted butter. 

BREAD STICKS. 
Cut very thin sticks out of stale light bread. Brush 
with butter and toast light brown. Serve six or eight or 
tie together in bunches. 

BEATEN BISCUIT STICKS. 
Roll out beaten biscuit dough. Cut into sticks and bake 
in oven. 

BREAD CHIPS. 
Cut slices of light bread with small, round cutter. Cut 
out thin rounds and toast brown after being brushed with 
melted butter. Serve at least six to one person. 

TOASTED CRACKERS. 
Brush with butter. Put in oven to get crisp and lightly 
colored. Serve hot. 

CRACKER DUST. 
Grind crackers into dust. Run in oven to freshen. 
Serve in dish with silver spoon. 

23 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 



FISH. 

Fish should be eaten when fresh and in season. The 
freshness may be determined by the firmness of the flesh. 
The eyes and gills should be bright. When frozen stand 
in cold water to thaw before cooking. 

TO BOIL FISH. 

Cover in hot water or pin in a linen cloth. Cook until 
tender. One tablespoon of vinegar and one teaspoon of salt 
to every quart of water helps to bleach and season fish. 
When done lift out carefully. Serve with drawn butter 
sauce, egg sauce, Hollandaise or Creole sauce. Garnish with 
parsley and hard-boiled eggs. Serve cold with tartar sauce. 

TO BAKE FISH. 

Stuff fish with a bread stuffing. Sew with trussing 
needle; wrap string several times around fish. Rub fish 
with butter, dredge with flour, place in pan. Add little 
water and bits of butter. Baste often. When done place 
on platter. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 
Serve with cucumber and egg sauce. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

Split fish. Lay it skin down on oiled paper in baking 
pan. Season with salt and pepper. Dredge with flour. 
Cook on grate in hot oven. Serve with melted butter, 
chopped parsley and lemon. Garnish with water cress. 

FISH AU GRATIN. 

1 cup white sauce. 1 cup grated cheese. 

3 lbs. fish. 

Boil fish until tender. Pull to pieces and take out all 
dark parts and bones. Put in baking dish. Pour over 
white sauce with grated cheese added. Cover top with 
buttered bread crumbs. Run in oven to bake. 



24 



SAUTED FISH. 

Cut fish cross-ways into nice size for frying. Season 
with pepper and salt and dip into meal. Put into spider 
crisco or pork drippings. When hot put in fish. Cook on 
one side. Turn and cook to a nice brown. Serve with corn- 
bread sticks. 

SALT MACKEREL. 

Soak fish over night in cold water. Stew fifteen min- 
utes in enough water to cover with one teaspoon of vine- 
gar. Serve hot with melted butter and lemon. 

FISH PUDDING. 

2 lbs. red snapper. Grated onion to taste. 

2 eggs. 1 pt. white sauce. 

Cook fish until tender and well done in water with a 
little salt. After it is taken from the fire pull apart and 
take out all small bones. Mash well. To this add white 
sauce, onion and two eggs, beaten together very light. 
Grease border mold and put fish in. Steam this in pan of 
hot water for forty minutes and do not let water boil. Put 
inside the oven with oil paper on top. Serve with white 
sauce on platter of lettuce leaves. Garnish with potato 
roses and slices of lemon dipped in parsley. Fill center 
with potato balls. 

Salmon pudding can be made the same way, using 
canned salmon. It is pretty and delicious. 

SHELL FISH. 
Oysters ox Half Shell. 

Place six oysters in deep, clean half shells. Put in plate 
of crushed ice with half a lemon in center. Serve with 
pepper, salt and wafers. 

TO BROIL OYSTERS. 

Wash and wipe large oysters. Brush with butter, pep- 
per and salt after placing in pan. Run under flame and 
broil until oysters curl. Serve with horse radish or lemon 
sauce. 



PANNED OR DEVILED OYSTERS. 

2 tablespoons butter. Pepper and salt. 

2 doz. oysters. 

Wash, wipe and dry oysters. Put butter in spider. 
When melted put in oysters. Dust with peper and salt. 
Cook until oysters curl. Serve on buttered toast. Deviled 
oysters just the same, with one spoon of Worcestershire 
sauce and dash of red pepper. 

TO FRY OYSTERS. 

Wash, wipe and dry large oysters. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Dip in meal and fry in hot fat. Use cracker 
dust and yolk of egg if preferred. 

Oysters rolled in sausage and fried brown. 

Roll oysters in thin slices of bacon and fry. Serve on 
oblong pieces of toast. (Pigs in blankets.) 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

1 pt. oysters. 1 cup bread crumbs. 

1 cup cream sauce. 

Wash and drain oysters. Put in baking dish one layer 
of oysters. Spread with sauce. Sprinkle with bread crumbs 
and another layer of oysters and so on until all is used. 
Sprinkle the top with crumbs and bits of butter. Run in 
oven to cook and brown. Serve hot. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS IN TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 pt. oysters. V2 cup white sauce. 

1 scant cup tomato juice. 

Make white sauce. Add tomato and season to taste. 
Add a little minced green pepper. Put in baking dish in 
alternate layers of oysters and tomato sauce, adding a little 
cracker dust. Run in oven and bake twenty minutes. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Open boiled crabs, removing body from shell. Remove 
gills and all uneatable parts. Pick out all white meat from 
claws and body. Use the good part of the inside. Chop 
fine. Season with butter, lemon juice and a httle French 
mustard. Clean shells and serve in same. Garnish with 
parsley. 

2G 



LOBSTER. 

Boil lobster in salt water twenty minutes or longer if 
size requires. When cold remove body from shell. Take 
out all uneatable parts. It can be creamed, scalloped or 
cooked like oysters and fish. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 



1 


large lobster. 


1/2 cup white grape juice. 


1 


pt. white sauce. 


1 can button mushrooms. 




Yolks 2 eggs. 


1/2 lb. pecans. 



When lobster is cooked and cold cut in small pieces. 
Have white sauce in double boiler, with eggs added to sauce, 
mushrooms sauted in butter. Put lobster in sauce with 
mushrooms. Add grape juice. Season highly, with nuts 
added last. Serve in toasted bread cups. 

CLAMS. 
Clams are served as oysters. 

BOILED CLAMS. 

Clams can be boiled or roasted until they open. Take 
from shells. Season with pepper and salt. Cook ten min- 
utes. Serve hot. 

Broil clams as you would oysters. 

CRABS. 

Crabs must be put on the fire in cold water. Heat 
gradually and boil one-half hour. 

DELICIOUS OYSTERS. 

1 pint oysters. 1 pint of crumbs. 

1 pint celery. 3 small onions. 

Cook celery until tender. Cook oysters ten minutes. 
Put butter in spider, add finely cut onions, celery, oysters 
and crumbs. When well seasoned put in shells and brown 
in oven. 



ENTREES. 



Entrees usually make a course at dinner or luncheon. 
Sometimes they are brought in with the third course. Any 
creamed meat or vegetable may be used as an entree. 
Egg or cheese souffle makes a nice entree served with deli- 
cate wafers. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

2 tablespoons butter. % cup milk. 

3 eggs. Cayenne. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 1 cup grated cheese. 

3 tablespoons flour. 

Put the butter into a saucepan and when hot add the 
flour and stir until smooth. Add the milk and seasoning. 
Cook two minutes. Remove to back of stove and add the 
well-beaten yolks and cheese. Stir until cheese melts. Set 
away to cool. Add the whites of eggs, beaten stiff, then 
turn into buttered ramekins. Bake. Serve immediately 
with wafers. 

SWEETBREAD ENTREE. 

Put sweetbreads in cold water. Remove membranes. 
Put in boiling water with salt and tablespoon of lemon 
juice. Cook twenty minutes, or until tender. Drain and 
put in cold water with lemon juice again. To fry, roll in 
egg and bread crumbs and fry in deep fat. Serve on toast 
garnished with lemon wheels. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

Cut in pieces. Put in white sauce. Serve in ramekins 
or bread cups. Garnish with parsley. Add peas to the 
above and serve the same way. 

GOOD ENTREE. 

1 pt. white sauce. i/^ teaspoon grated onion. 

1 cup chopped cold chicken. 1 small can button mush- 
14 cup tomatoes, peeled and rooms sauted in butter, 

cut fine. 1/^ cup pecan meats. 

Mix lightly in sauce and serve hot in ramekins. Gar- 
nish with water cress and serve with salted wafers. 



2S 



BROILED SWEETBREADS. 

Rub with soft butter, salt and pepper and broil ten min- 
utes. Serve on oblong pieces of buttered toast. Lemon 
sauce. 

CREAMED OYSTERS WITH GREEN PEPPER. 

1 pt. small oysters. 1 tomato, cut fine and 

1 pt. cream sauce. drained. 

1 green pepper, chopped Vi teaspoon grated onion. 

fine after standing in 1 stalk celery, cut very fine, 
scalding water 10 min- 
utes. 

Add oysters to hot sauce, also onion, tomato and pepper. 
Serve in one dozen toasted crustards garnished with parsley 
and served with cheese straws. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Remove stem. Wash, peel caps and break in pieces. 
Saute in melted butter. While hot season with salt and 
pepper. Cook in white sauce slowly for five minutes and 
serve on toast. Mushrooms can be boiled or stewed. Pro- 
portions : 

2 cups mushrooms. 6 pieces round, buttered 
2 tablespoons butter. toast. 

1 cup cream sauce. 

Canned mushrooms are used in the same way, only they 
are already prepared for cooking. 

CREAM BRAINS AND SWEETBREADS IN PATE 

CASES. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons butter. 
1 pair sweetbreads. Dash of cayenne. 

1 pt. brains. IV2 cups milk. 

1 cup button mushrooms. 1 tablespoon flour. 
1 lemon. 

Soak brains and sweetbreads in cold water. Boil with 
lemon juice, salt and pepper. Make sauce with butter and 
flour. Add brains and sweetbreads. Fill ramekins or pate 
shells. Sprinkle with parsley. 

29 



SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES. 

34 cup flour. 1 tablespoon olive oil. 

1 egg. V2 cup milk. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 

Mix all together. Add oil. Set aside, covered for hour 
before using. Heat timbale irons in deep fat, then dip in 
batter and fry. If not crisp, add a little more milk. Serve 
in them cream peas, meat, fish or any kind of berries or 
preserves. 

HAM AND VEAL PATES. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon browned flour. 

1 lb. cold veal. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 slices cold boiled ham. V2 teaspoon minced onion. 
2 tablespoons butter. Dash cayenne. 

2 cups rich milk. 1 tablespoon catsup. 

Make sauce with butter, flour and milk. Add pepper, 
salt and onion. Chop meat and eggs very fine. Add cat- 
sup and stir in sauce. Fill pate shells. This can be made 
into croquettes. 

TOMATO TIMBALES. 

3 eggs. 1/2 cup sifted bread crumbs. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons melted butter. 

1/2 teaspoon pepper. 

1 cup tomato puree. 

Turn into buttered timbale molds. Set in baking dish 
on small folds of paper and surround with boiling hot 
water. Bake in moderate oven until the mixture is firm 
in center. The water must not boil. Take from the water. 
After a few moments turn out of molds. Serve with cream 
sauce. 

FISH TIMBALES. 

Prepare as fish au gratin. Leave out wine. Mash fine. 
Add sauce, a little grated onion and beaten whites of two 
eggs. Put into buttered timbale cups. Set in pan of hot 
water. Cover with oil paper and cook twenty minutes, or 
until done. Turn out on plate. Garnish with parsley and 
serve with white sauce. 

30 



CHICKEN TIMBALES. 

1 cup of rich sweet milk or i/o cup bread crumbs, 
cream. Whites of 3 eggs. 

Breast of 1 chicken. 

Run breast through grinder until very fine. Put crumbs 
in milk over steam and cook until thick. Mix in chicken. 
Add beaten whites of three eggs. Put in timbale molds. 
Set in hot water and cook fifteen minutes. 

CHEESE RAMEKINS. 

11/2 lbs. grated cheese. Salt and cayenne pepper. 

1 tablespoon flour. Whites of 3 eggs. 

Mix cheese, grated fine; salt and pepper. Fold in the 
beaten whites. Shape into balls, one tablespoon for each. 
Roll in crumbs and fry as croquettes. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

When we learn to make and use white sauce, and to 
cook meat and vegetables, we do not require recipes for 
creamed chicken, oysters, potatoes, cauliflower or aspara- 
gus. We only change the sauce, thick or thin, to offset the 
dry or watery nature of the article we are preparing. Some- 
times we vary the flour to suit the material. A little onion 
added to some creamed vegetables improves the taste. And 
such creamed meat or vegetables may be served plain or 
on toast, or in timbale cases, or combined with buttered 
bread crumbs as a scallop, or if white of eggs are added it 
becomes a souffle. 



31 



MEATS. 

BEEF ROAST. 
Wipe a three-pound beef roast with damp cloth. Do 
not wash; water draws out the juices. Dredge with flour 
Put in pan with little butter on top of stove and sear on all 
sides Place inside of oven and cook until done, allowing 
twelve minutes to pound. Season with salt and pepper and 
a few pieces of bacon in one corner of pan. Baste often. 
Serve with Irish potato strips around roast, which can be 
cooked in oven with roast. 

RUMP ROAST. 

Select nice rump roast. Wipe with damp cloth. Have 

iron pot on stove, and when hot drop in lump of butter. Put 

roast in and let brown on both sides. Add seasoning and 

cup of water. Cook slowly for several hours. Covered lid. 

PORK CHOPS. 
Select nice cuts. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dip in 
flour. Fry in hot fat. 

ROAST LEG OF LAMB. 
Remove thick skin. Dredge with flour. Place in pan 
with one cup of water. Add a little salt pork. Baste often, 
allowing twenty minutes to the poungl. Serve with gravy 
made from drippings. Currant and mint jelly with this 
roast of meat. 

POT ROAST. 

3 pounds beef round. 1 onion. , ^ . 

2 slices suet or 2 spoons 1/2 cup celery and turnips or 

butter. tomatoes. 

1 carrot, diced. 

Fry out suet. Wipe meat dry. Dredge with flour and 
brown the entire surface in the fat or butter. Place meat 
in pot, surrounded with vegetables. Add two cups of boil- 
ing water. Season, cover and let simmer for several hours. 
When done remove meat and thicken gravy if necessary. 

32 



FILLET OF BEEF. 

The fillet is under the side of the loin of beef. It is cov- 
ered with fat. Remove this from top. Your butcher will 
cut this part especially for you. Brush over the top with 
fat. Put several pieces of salt pork in bottom of baking 
dish. Lay the fillet on top. Baste with butter, pepper and 
salt. Cook thirty-five minutes. Serve with mushroom 
sauce. 

Larded beef is cooked the same way, but before cook- 
ing meat insert lardons of salt pork over top and at the 
sides. If inserted at regular intervals, it makes the meat 
more attractive. Serve with Irish potatoes and season 
highly with pepper and salt. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 



4 lbs. round beef. 


2 tomatoes or Vi. cup juice. 


2 carrots. 


V-i pod garlic. 


1 turnip. 


i teaspoon salt. 


1/2 onion. 


Y2 pod red pepper. 


2 pieces celery. 


2 tablespoons brown flour, 


1 cup vinegar. 





Wipe beef with fat and salt. Pour over vinegar. Cut 
up vegetables and put on beef. Let stand several hours. 
Pour off vinegar. Put beef in pot with a little butter or 
fat. Fry on both sides quickly until brown. Then add flour, 
one and one-half pints of water and vegetables. Cook 
twenty minutes to the pound. 

VEAL LOAF WITH CREOLE SAUCE. 

3 lbs. veal. - 1 onion. 

14 lb. fat pork. 

Put the veal, pork and onion together through the meat 
grinder. With these mix two cups of fine bread crumbs and 
season highly. Beat two eggs and add to the mixture. 
Roll in the shape of a loaf and bake in oven one hour, or 
until done. Baste as you would chicken. It is a good idea 
to squeeze the juice of a lemon over the loaf before put- 
ting in the oven. This improves the flavor and gives more 
liquor with which to baste. Serve with Creole sauce. 

33 

(3) 



CROWN (?) ROAST. 

The butcher can fix this in shape better than anyone 
else. It is made from the full loin. Wrap each bone with 
buttered letter paper so it will not burn in cooking. Sea- 
son highly with butter, pepper and salt. Baste well. When 
done fill center with potato balls, cooked carrot squares and 
serve with Creole sauce. Veal and mutton should be cooked 
like lamb. 

PORK ROAST. 

The rib, shoulder and loin are good pieces for roasting. 
Add a little water and baste often. Thirty minutes to the 
pound. Season highly and serve with apple sauce. Good 
with tomato sauce. This can be cooked as pot roast. Fire- 
less cooker is a valuable help for roast. Sweet potatoes 
laid around this roast and served with it is nice. 

ROAST LEG OF PORK. 

1 leg pork. 1 tablespoon butter or olive 

2 teaspoons salt. oil. 

2 tablespoons vinegar. V2 teaspoon cayenne. 

2 tablespoons ground sage. 

Rub pork with vinegar, salt, pepper and sage. Wrap 
pork in linen cloth, dipped in vinegar, let stand several 
hours, keeping the cloth damp. Rub with oil and flour, 
then roast, allowing twenty-five minutes to the pound. 



34 




MISS JESSIE WOODROW WILSON'S WEDDING CAKE. 




CHARLOTTE RUSSE IN CANDY RING. 




CANDY RING FILLED WITH CHARLOTTE PUDDING 



POULTRY AND MEATS. 



ROASTED CAPON. 

1 capon. 14 teaspoon cayenne. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 1 slice pork. 

1 can button mushrooms. 1 sweetbread. 

Fry sweetbread and mushrooms in fat. Rub capon with 
butter, pepper and salt, stuff and roast until tender. 

CAPON. 

Take a capon, split through the back, put in baking 
pan, season with 2 tablespoons butter, pepper and salt to 
taste, 2 tablespoons of flour, and 2 cups water. Baste often 
and cook until tender and brown. Toast some half slices of 
bread, lay on dish and put capon on toast and pour gravy 
over it. You can garnish with slices of hard boiled eggs. 

TO BOIL CHICKEN. 

Boil only a well grown chicken. If tough it can be made 
tender by adding 1 tablespoon vinegar to the water. Some- 
times steaming old chickens makes them tender. If to be 
served whole, stuff with bread dressing, tie it in shape. 
Cover with boiling water, add vinegar and 1 tablespoon salt. 
When tender serve with sauce made with 1 tablespoon but- 
ter. 1 tablespoon flour and 1 cup chicken broth. Cut giblets 
fine and add to sauce. Run into oven and brown chicken 
if desired. 

TO STEW CHICKEN. 

Cut into pieces, place in stew pan with giblets. Pour 1 
pint boiling water over it, cover and cook 15 minutes. Put 
a tablespoon butter and flour together, add gradually to 
the water in the chicken. Cook until tender. Serve with 
a sauce made from the liquor, add mushrooms, celery and 
giblets, or use only giblet sauce. Tomatoes make a nice 
sauce. Dumplings can be used if desired. 



35 



CREAMED CHICKEN. 

One chicken steamed or boiled tender. Cut into pieces 
as for salad, using the whole chicken. Make a white sauce 
of one pint of milk, add chicken and season to taste. If tho 
sauce does not flavor it sufficiently, add nuts and a little 
sherry wine if you like. 

BROILED QUAIL. 

Dress quail, split down back. Place the quail in hot 
spider, oiled with a little fat. Put flat tin over quail and 
press down with weight. When the quail begins to brown 
put a lump of butter on each quail, turn often. When quails 
are nicelj?' browned add a cup of hot water and cook slowly 
until tender. Season well with salt and pepper. 

TO BROIL CHICKEN. 

Choose young chickens. Split down back, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt. Dredge with flour. Put a piece of break- 
fast bacon under each wing. Put a piece of butter in broiler 
or pan, and lay the chicken on it. Broil inside of oven. 
Turn several times that all parts may be browned. Serve 
on toast, garnish with mushrooms and parsley. Saute mush- 
rooms in butter. 

TO SAUTE CHICKEN. 

Cut in pieces ready for serving, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and dredge with flour. Put one tablespoon fat in 
spider and let it get smoking hot. Lay chicken in care- 
fully and cook a golden brown. When done remove chicken. 
Put a tablespoon flour into the spider, stir, add one cup 
cream or rich milk. When it thickens season and serve 
in gravy bowl or over chicken. Care must be used not 
to burn. 

TO FRY CHICKEN. 

Cut as for sauteing, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
dip in finely ground crumbs, then in egg, then again in 
crumbs. Use a frying basket, dip in hot fat and let fry a 
delicate brown. Garnish with celery and water cress. 



36 



TO FRICASSEE CHICKEN. 

Wipe and cut chicken at joints as you would for fry- 
ing. Cover with boiling water, cook until tender and reduce 
water to a pint. Remove chicken, drain, dredge with flour, 
salt and pepper and brov.n in hot butter or pork strips. 
Put chicken on toast and serve with sauce made of the drip- 
pings and cream, season. Melt 1 tablespoon butter in spider 
and add 1 tablespoon flour. When well blended add 1 cup 
rich milk and chicken liquor. Season and pour over chick2n 
on platter. Garnish with parsley. 

TO BAKE CHICKEN. 

Use a young tender hen. Stuff with rich bread dress- 
ing and truss. Put two or three slices of pork in pan, lay 
hen on top of this. Put in oven and cook until tender. Put 
a little water in pan for basting and rub butter over fowl. 
Serve with gravy made from drippings. If fat hen add 
more liquid. 

CREOLE CHICKEN. 

1 chicken. 1 can mushrooms. 

1 onion. 1 pepper. 

1 can tomatoes. Seasonings. 

Boil one hen until tender, then tear to pieces. 

Sauce for chicken. Cut one onion into small pieces, and 
fry in butter until yellow — using spider. Cut into this one 
green pepper, one can tomatoes, one can of miushrooms, 
salt and pepper to taste. One tablespoon sugar, one tea- 
spoon Worcester sauce. Cook this mixture till thoroughly 
done, then add chicken, cover and let cook until well 
seasoned. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Use back, neck and giblets for pie. (It would be better 
to use all parts of chicken.) Cover with boiling water and 
stew until tender, add salt. Make rich baking powder pas- 
try. Line pan bottom and sides, cut slashes across bot- 
tom. Put pieces of chicken in with butter, a bit of grated 
onion helps the flavor. Add the liquid, cover top with thin 
pastry. Cut several slashes in top also, to let juice escape. 
Brush top with butter, bake a nice brown and serve in bak- 
ing dish. 

37 



CHICKEN JAMBALYA. 

Cut into pieces 1 chicken and two slices of raw ham. 
Fry the whole in hot fat and set aside. In same fat fry one 
onion and tomato, when nearly done, add 1 cup rice, chicken 
and ham and let fry together, stirring constantly, add 
enough water to cover whole, let boil slowly until done. 
Season with pepper, bay leaves, chopped parsley and thyme. 
When cooked, let dry a little and serve hot. 

ROAST TURKEY NO. 1. 

Use young fowl, when dressed. Wash several times and 
dry with cloth. Rub well with salt and brush with butter. 
Turning breast down. Put turkey in roasting pan, add 1 
pint hot water and put in range to cook from 1 to 3 hours. 
Size of fowl makes difference in time it takes to cook, allow 
from 20 to 25 minutes to the pound. Make stuffing of bread 
crumbs, season with a little butter or stock, pepper, salt, a 
little sage, onion, and one egg to hold in shape. Put some 
of this inside bird, make some of it into balls and lay them 
around in the pan. 

Cook the neck and giblets until tender, in enough water 
to make sauce. Have a pair of sweetbreads ready cooked 
and one can button mushrooms, which have been sauted in 
butter. Add to giblets a delicious sauce to be passed after 
guests have been served to the turkey. 

Make short baking powder pastry, cut in strips, bake 
and when turkey has been put on a pretty tray make fence 
rows around with pastry sticks and garnish with parsley. 

ROAST TURKEY NO. 2. 

Select a fat, medium sized turkey. Put in a roasting 
pan and cook until half done. Then stuff the turkey with 
a dressing made of equal parts of toasted biscuits and rich 
egg bread moistened with the stock from turkey. Season 
dressing with half cup butter, pepper and salt to taste, 2 
tablespoons chopped celery. After turkey is well stuffed, 
put in roasting pan and bake until tender, basting often 
with the gravy. To this dressing you would add cup of 
fresh oysters or a cup of raisins, whichever you prefer. To 
serve with the turkey coddled apples, stuffed with cran- 
berry jelly. 

38 



CHESTNUT BALLS NICE TO SERVE WITH ROAST 
TURKEY. 

Boil, hull and blanch enough Spanish chestnuts to meas- 
ure a cupful when mashed smooth or run through the ricer. 
Put into double boiler one cupful of sweet milk, one table- 
spoon of butter and cup of finely ground bread crumbs. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt, using a little grated onion if de- 
sired. Stir until thick, remove from fire and add chest- 
nuts. When cool, form into balls. Dip in egg. then in bread 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat like croquettes. Keep warm 
and place on platter with fowls. 

BONED CHICKEN. 

Boned chicken must be stuffed in shape. With a highly 
seasoned force meat made of chicken or veal. Sew or tie 
in shape. Put in pan, cover with thin slices of bacon. Baste 
often, remove bacon and sprinkle with flour and brown. 

MOLDED CHICKEN. 

Boil chicken until tender, season water highly. When 
cold cut into pieces or strips as nearly one size as possible 
to look nice. Ornament the bottom of mold with slices of 
hard boiled eggs, thin slices of pickle, truffles or finely 
chopped celery. Make a jelly, using 14 box gelatine to 3 
cups liquid. When cold pour a little into mold, add chicken, 
egg, pickle, etc., move jelly and so on until mold is filled. 
When congealed turn out on lettuce leaves on platter. Serve 
with tartar sauce. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Be sure and select a tender goose. When ready to roast, 
take a lemon and rub the goose well, inside and out. Put 
in the roasting pan, and roast until half done, then stuff 
with dressing made of toasted light bread and egg bread, 
season this highly with garlic or onion, pepper and salt to 
taste, and a little chopped celery. You can add a cup of 
chestnuts if liked. Blanched (boiled) and chopped fine. 



39 



ROAST GOOSE WITH APPLE DRESSING. 

1 goose. '4 doz. apples. 

1 tablespoon browned flour, i/o cup sugar. 
1 tablespoon butter. 

Rub goose with salt, pepper, butter and flour. Cook ap- 
ples, mash, add sugar and stuff goose. Roast, allowing 20 
minutes to the pound. 

LEG OF VEAL STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS. 

1 leg veal. Yo cup minced ham. 

2 tablespoons butter. Salt and cayenne to 
1 can button mushrooms. taste. 

1 teaspoon minced onion. Vo cup sweet milk. 
11/2 cups fresh bread 
crumbs. 

Remove bone from veal with sharp knife. Make stuf- 
fing by frying in butter the mushrooms, bread crumbs, ham, 
onion and milk. Put this in leg of veal and bake, allowing 
20 minutes to the pound. 

DUCK STUFFED WITH CHESTNUTS. 

1 large duck. 1 lb. chestnuts. 

1 tablespoon butter. 2 tablespoons cream. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
l^ teaspoon cayenne. 

Boil chestnuts until tender, mash them, add cream, but- 
ter, sugar, pepper, and salt. Fill duck with this and roast, 
allowing 15 minutes to the pound. 

TO BOIL HAM. 

Wash well, let stand over night in cold water. Put on 
in cold water, and when begin to boil turn down flame or 
push back on range. Let simmer for several hours. A bet- 
ter way if you have a vessel that can be made into a 
steamer. Lift ham from water and let steam until per- 
fectly tender. Use perforated shelf for this. Steamers are 
made especially for this purpose. When done remove skin, 
rub top with bread crumbs and brown sugar, dot with pep- 
per and cloves, run in oven to brown. 

40 



OYSTER STUFFING. 

Mix equal parts of bread crumbs and oysters, seasoned 
with butter, pepper and salt. 

STUFFING FOR FOWLS. 

Season ground stale bread crumbs with chopped or 
grated onion, salt and pepper. Add a little melted butter 
to moisten, or fat from the liquor in which they are cooked. 

Oysters may be added to make oyster dressing. 

Soak 1 pint stale bread in 1 V2 pints of cold water. Cook 
1 onion (chopped) in one tablespoon butter. Squeeze out 
water from crumbs and put in onion and butter. Cook a 
few minutes and when taken from fire add one egg beaten 
slightly. 

Cook onion in tablespoon butter, and fry meal cakes in 
this. Moisten meal with chicken fat from liquor. 

Stuff chicken and turkey with corn that has been boiled 
— cut from cob — seasoned highly with butter, pepper and 
salt. 

TO BROIL HAM. 

Cut slices thin. Let stand in cold water for an hour. 
Wipe dry, place in broiler and broil over coals, charcoal best. 
A very hot spider will answer. 

BROILED BEEF STEAK. 

The best steaks are cut thick. Have broiler very hot. 
Brush with butter or fat from steak. Put on steak, turn 
over and sear on both sides. Turn often and broil or cook 
according to taste. Some like steak rare, others well done. 
Have platter on stove with butter, pepper and salt. Take 
steak from broiler and put in warm platter. Turn several 
times to season thoroughly, serve with French fried pota- 
toes. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

There are many ways of serving steak. Oysters can be 
put on steak and run in oven until they curl. Mushroom 
sauce, onions sauted in butter are nice with steak. If a 
less expensive steak, such as round steak is used, sprinkle 
with vinegar before cooking. Also lernon juice makes it 
tender. Slash and broil as above. 

Steak garnishes are bananas, potatoes, mushrooms, to- 
matoes. 

41 



TO BAKE HAM. 

Soak over night, wipe, place in turkey pan with a little 
water or sherry wine. Cover tightly so as to keep the steam 
in pan. Cook from 3 to 4 hours, according to size of ham. 
Some make a paste of dough and bake ham in this. 

HAMBURG STEAK. 

Grind lean beef, season with grated onion, pepper and 
salt. Make into small mounds an inch thick, put in hot 
spider, turn several times. Add a little butter, and when 
done make gravy by adding a little water and cook until 
thick. Nice with Creole sauce. 

Planking means to cook food on a plank, in the oven or 
in front of the fire. 

Planks are made especially for this purpose, about 2 
inches thick ; oak planks are considered the best. It is best 
to cook in the lower oven of a gas stove when using the 
plank. Fish is delicious, also chicken, and steak cooked in 
this way. Never wash the plank with soap and water; use 
a little soda and if necessary, sand paper. 

PLANKED STEAK. 

Have the plank very hot, brush with melted butter, dust 
with salt and pepper. Put steak on and run in gas oven, or 
some prefer broiling steak on one side before putting on 
plank. Baste frequently and turn steak several times. 
Have any kind of vegetables ready to garnish and serve 
with steak. Potatoes creamed and run through pastry tube 
make a pretty border. Make into roses any color desired. 
Between these put cauliflower and peas, or anything else 
you may like. Serve with hot rolls and coffee. 

BOILED TONGUE. 

Soak beef tongue over night in cold water. Cook in 
boiling water with one tablespoon lemon juice and one spoon 
vinegar, 5 cloves, 6 pepper corns and a little salt. Cook 
until tender. Leave in water until cold. Skin and serve 
in thin slices. Garnish with lemon cut thin and parsley. 

42 



MIXED HASH. 

1 pt. hashed turkey chicken 1 tablespoon browned flour. 

or beef. ' -j pt. stock. 

3 small potatoes. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Heat butter, add flour and stock. When it starts to cook 
add potatoes, cook until potatoes are tender, put in chopped 
meat, serve on toast. 

BEEF HASH WITH SPAGHETTI. 

1 lb. spaghetti. 1/2 cup milk. 

14 lb. cheese. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Make beef hash, when spaghetti has cooked wash and 
drain, put in layers in baking pan with cheese and butter 
and a thick layer of hash between. Pour milk over this 
and bake until brown. 



4:5 



CROQUETTES, SAUCES, ETC. 



CROQUETTES. 

The invaluable white sauce is the foundation for nearly- 
all kinds of croquettes. Both meats and vegetables are 
mixed with this sauce, the only change being made in the 
flour, using double the amount for croquettes; eggs are 
also added. 

Croquettes are made by grinding or mincing the ma- 
terial mixed with the sauce chilled, shaped and fried in deep 
fat. They can be made of one, two and sometimes three 
kinds combined. Brains, mushrooms and sweetbreads are 
usually added to something else. They enrich the combina- 
tion and also make delicious croquettes. 

Cutlets are made in the same way only shaped differ- 
ently. Will give a few recipes using bread crumbs and 
sauce. Others can be made from these using whatever taste 
may suggest. 

SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon butter. Yolks of 2 eggs or whole egg. 

2 tablespoons flour. 
1 pint milk. 

A little grated onion adds to this mixture. 
Two cups of meat to this proportion. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

1 cup white sauce. 2 cups minced white fish. 

1/2 cup bread crumbs. 

Shape and fry as other croquettes. 

Veal, oyster, lamb, lobster, rice, potatoes and peas can 
all be made into croquettes, using sauce to make the proper 
consistency. Croquettes can be baked in oven. Meat cro- 
quettes are pretty shaped as pears with macaroni stem 
on top. 

EGG CROQUETTES. 

1 cup cream sauce. 8 hard-boiled eggs, run 

1 cup bread crumbs. through ricer. 

Season highly, add a dash cayenne, mix lightly. Chill, 
dip in crumbs and egg and fry in deep fat. 

44 



CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

1 cup white sauce. V2 teaspoon grated onion. 

1 cup cheese. 

Mix all together and when cool add whites of 2 eggs 
beaten stiff. When chilled cut in oblong pieces, dip in crumbs 
and fry. 

ALMOND CROQUETTES. 

Sauce made for these as follows: 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 cup milk; season highly. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

Add to this 1 cup almonds after they have been blanched, 
ground and browned. When cool pour on flat dish, cut in 
squares and fry as croquettes. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 
• Grind one chicken after it has been steamed tender and 
cooled. Use 1 pint of thick white sauce, a little grated 
onion. Season highly and let stand until chilled. Make into 
croquettes, dip in crumbs, in egg and again in crumbs and 
fry in deep fat. 

SALMON CROQUETTES NO. 1. 

1 can salmon. 1 cup thick white sauce. 

1 cup bread crumbs. 

If desired you can use half mashed potatoes and half 
bread crumbs. Add to white sauce the minced salmon and 
bread crumbs. When cold shape, dip in crumbs, egg, crumbs 
and fry in hot fat. Serve with lemon quarters. 

SALMON CROQUETTES NO. 2. 

1 cup left-over salmon. Season with pepper and salt 

1 cup white sauce. and 1 tablespoon lemon 

2 egg yolks. juice. 
1/2 cup bread crumbs. 

Beat whites stiff, fold in mixture, put into little baking 
dishes or molds — set in pan of hot water and cook 20 min- 
utes. Serve with white sauce, with green pepper cut up 
fine in it. 

Sweet potatoes make nice croquettes and puddings. 

Almond croquettes with bread sticks can be used as 
entree. 

45 



FISH CUTLETS. 

2 lbs. red snapper. 1 pint white sauce. 

1 teaspoon minced onion. 

Cook fish in salt water until tender, drain and remove 
all bones. Mince fine, add white sauce and season to taste. 
Mould into cutlets, dip in beaten eggs and cracker crumbs 
and fry in hot fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 

WHITE FISH BALLS. 

1 cup cold fish, mashed fine. 1/2 cup creamed Irish pota- 
1/2 cream sauce. toes. 

Blend thoroughly, add 2 eggs beaten slightly, season 
highly with pepper, salt and little grated onion and celery. 
Drop from spoon in hot fat. Drain on brown paper. 

COD FISH BALLS. 

1 cup fish. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 cups Irish potatoes. 3 spoons cream. 

2 eggs. Dust of pepper. 

Soak fish over night. Pick to pieces, add potatoes 
creamed, eggs beaten slightly and butter. Roll into balls 
and fry. 

NUT BALLS WITH CHEESE. 

1 cup tightly packed bread %. cup hickory nuts or pe- 

crumbs. cans. 

1 cup milk. 1 cup cheese. 

Yolks 2 eggs. 

Scald milk, add other ingredients, eggs last. Cook until 
thick. When cool shape into balls and fry like croquettes.. 

NUT LOAF. 

1 cup mixed nuts. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup stale bread crumbs. 1 teaspoon salt. 
1 egg. 1/1 teaspoon pepper. 

y2 cup boiling water, 
i tablespoon chopped 
parsley. 

Blend thoroughly with nuts. Shape into round roll, bake 
half hour. Serve with celery sauce. 

46 



SAUCE. 

3 tablespoons butter \/o cup stock from onion and 

browned. celery. 

3 tablespoons flour. Season and add bits of 

1 cup celery. celery. 

1/2 onion. 

NUT CROQUETTES. 

1 pound sweet breads. 2 eggs. 

14 pound blanched almonds. i 

Cook sweetbreads, when cold grind with 14 pound al- 
monds, mix with this 2 eggs, roll in bread crumbs and fry 
in deep fat. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

3 cups ground veal. 1 small cup thick white sauce, 

highly seasoned. 

Add a little minced onion, if desired. Mould into pear 
shape, then flatten until they are 1 inch thick, dip in crumbs. 
egg and crumbs and fry. Before frying, insert a piece of 
spaghetti an inch long in small end to look like a bone, 
serve with mushroom or oyster sauce. 

VEAL CUTLETS— CHESTNUT SAUCE. 

8 veal cutlets. 1 cup crumbs. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 lb. chestnuts. 

1/2 tablespoon sugar. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

Dash of cayenne. Brush cutlets with butter, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and broil. Cook chestnuts, press 
through sieve, and add cream, butter and sugar. Serve hot 
with cutlets. 

BREADED VEAL CUTLETS. 

6 tender veal cutlets. V2 cup crumbs. 

1 egg. Salt and pepper. 

Trim cutlets neatly, salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, then 
in egg and again in crumbs and fry slowly until done. 

Serve with tomato sauce. Cutlets are nice served with 
chestnut sauce. Boil chestnuts and run through sieve, add 
1 pt. of white sauce, season highly. 

PIMENTO SAUCE. 

1 pint white sauce. V2 can pimentos, cut fine and 

added to sauce. 

47 



VEAL CHOPS. 

Trim chops nicely, sprinkle ^ith pepper and salt, put on 
a broiler over hot fire, turn several times. Melt some but- 
ter and pour over them when ready to serve. 

TOMATO SAUCE FOR FISH. 

1 pint white sauce. 1 small grated onion. 

1 small can strained to- 1 stalk finely chopped celery, 

matoes. 

CREOLE SAUCE. 

1 can small tomato soup. 1/2 green pepper, cut fine. 
1/2 onion, minced fine. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Put butter in saucepan, add onion, cook a few minutes, 
then add tomato and pepper and when well blended it is 
ready to use with macaroni. 

CHEESE SAUCE. 

1 pint white sauce. 1/2 teaspoon grated onion. 

1 cup cream cheese. 

Serve hot; good with fish, 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Use grated horseradish, mix with whipped cream, season 
with salt, pepper and little lemon juice. 

TARTAR SAUCE NO. 1. 

1 cup mayonnaise. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 small onion, grated. and capers. 

1 cucumber pickle, chopped, 
fine. 

Serve with croquettes, fish, oysters, jellied chicken and 
cold tongue. 

TARTAR SAUCE NO. 2. 

1/2 cup thick white sauce. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 
1/2 cup oil mayonnaise. 1 teaspoon minced parsley. 

1 tablespoon chopped leek. 

48 



DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

2 full tablespoons butter. 1 cup water or white stock. 
1 heaping tablespoon flour. 

Put butter in saucepan, add flour, stir until smooth, add 
stock and cook until it thickens. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Add half spoon lemon juice if you like. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Add to drawn butter sauce 3 hard boiled eggs chopped 
fine. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

1 pint white sauce. 1/2 spoon grated onion. 

1 pint small oysters, washed, 1 teaspooon chopped celery, 
drained, cooked 10 min- 
utes, chopped and added 
to sauce. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

1 heaping tablespoon 1 tablespoon grated onion (or 

browned flour. you can color and flavor 

1 tablespoon butter. white sauce with kitchen 

1 pint white sauce. bouquet.) 

Put butter in spider, when melted add onion, then flour. 
After it is blended add white sauce, season with pepper 
and salt. 

MINT SAUCE FOR ROAST LAMB. 

1/2 cup chopped fresh mint. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
1/2 cup vinegar. 

Pour vinegar over sugar. When dissolved add mint. Set 
in warm place and before serving add warm water if too 
strong with vinegar. 

Mix all together, serve on cutlets. Good with fish. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Cream half cup butter, beat in the yolk of four eggs, 
one at a time, add one-fourth teaspoon each of salt and 
pepper, and half a cup of boiling water. Stir and cook the 
mixture over hot water until it thickens. Add the juice 
of half lemon and serve at once. It will curdle if over- 
cooked. 

49 

(4) 



TOMATO SAUCE. 

One can small tomato soup seasoned with one-half green 
pepper, a little onion and one-half cup white sauce. Serve 
hot. 

RICE. 

Wash well one cup rice. Have two quarts of water boil- 
ing. Put in grains slowly, so as not to stop the boiling. 
Stir with a wooden spoon to prevent rice sticking to bot- 
tom of vessel. Cook twenty-five minutes or until grains 
are tender. Drain, sprinkle with salt and put in oven to 
dry. If to be served at table season with butter. 

Rice prepared as above, add 1 cup rich milk or cream 
and 1 tablespoon butter. Set dish or vessel over hot water 
and let season. 

Cook rice, put layer into shallow pan, sprinkle with 
grated cheese, another layer of rice and cheese. Season 
with butter, pepper and salt and bake long enough to melt 
cheese. 

MACARONI. 

Break in pieces, drop in boiling water, or, if desired, 
whole. Let drop from ends gently into the boiling water, 
with salt added. Let cook until tender, drain off hot water 
and pour over macaroni cold water to blanch. Serve with 
cream sauce. 

BAKED MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI. 

1 cup macaroni. 1 cup cheese added to sauce 

11/2 cups cream sauce. while hot. 

1 cup bread crumbs, but- 
tered. 

Put macaroni in pan, then sauce. Cover with bread 
crumbs and bake brown. 
Sauce for this: 

IV2 cups milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1/4 cup flour. Dash red pepper. 

14 cup butter. 

MACARONI AND CREOLE SAUCE. 
Break in small pieces, cook as above, drain well. Put 
into baking dish, cover with Creole sauce, sprinkle with but- 
tered bread crumbs and bake until well seasoned. 

50 



SANDWICHES 



Sandwiches are made by cutting bread into thin slices 
and then shaping any way desired. Eggs, cheese, jellies, 
nuts, meats and vegetables are used between the bread. 

The meat should be ground and all other material minced 
fine to make the sandwiches look nice. Butter must be 
softened before spreading. Bread must not be too fresh 
as it will not cut well. Cut bread with crust, as this holds 
the shape better, then with sharp scissors trim off the sides. 
Another Way — Stack slices and cut sides with sharp 
knife. These crusts make lovely bread sticks to serve with 
soup. When made put sandwiches in shallow dish, cover 
with damp napkin and set away to season. If made for 
picnic lunch wrap in oil paper and seal with pretty seals, 

CxOOD SANDWICHES. 

1 cup pecans. Juice of 1/2 lemon. 

y^ cup seeded raisins. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 apple. 

Spread between slices of white or brown bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICH. 

Grind 1 pound cream cheese with 1 green pepper and 
one-half Spanish onion. 

Mix with cooked dressing and spread between white 
bread or brown bread. 

CUCUMBER AND ONION SANDWICHES. 

Cucumbers cut thin and minced onion. 

Let them stand in cold water for an hour. Butter bread 
with melted butter, then cooked dressing. Cover with slices 
of cucumber and onions and wrap in damp cloth to season. 
White bread. 

CELERY AND ONION SANDWICHES. 
Cut celery fine and onions if they are not small enough. 
Mix v.'ith dressing and spread between whole wheat or white 
bread. 



.11 



DELICIOUS BROWN BREAD SANDWICH. 

10 cts. worth crystallized Same amount home-made 

pineapple. citron. 

15 cts. worth crystallized 

ginger. 

Grind all together. Butter bread and spread between. 
Use ginger and pineapple or citron, cherries and pine- 
apple. 

ALMOND FILLINGS. 

One-half pound almonds blanched, ground fine and 
browned in stove. Butter brown bread or nut bread and 
spread between. A little pineapple added makes another 
change. 

GOOD SANDWICH FILING. 

1 cup sweet milk. Dash of cayenne pepper. 

1 tablespoon flour. i/^ lb. cream cheese. 

1 teaspooon salt. 1 can pimentos. 

Cook milk, flour, salt and pepper and chese over hot 
water until very thick. Add pimentos cut in pieces. When 
cold, spread between bread. 

Lettuce with minced celery and nuts makes a nice filling. 
Let lettuce show on edge of bread. 

Olives and pimentos cut up with dressing make good 
sandwiches. 

A paste made of baked beans and tomato catsup, used 
between slices of brown bread, with thin slices of pickle, is 
liked by bean eaters. 

Sweet sandwiches made with jams, jellies, wafers, plain 
or combined with something else. 

EGG SANDWICH. 
Take 6 hard boiled eggs. Run yolks and whites through 
ricer. Mix with cooked dressing. Spread each piece oi 
bread with mixture and put lettuce between. This makes 
a pretty sandwich for yellow and white. 

NEW SANDWICH. 
Spread two round or square pieces of bread with grated 
cream cheese, lay slice of pimento between, brush top with 
melted butter and toast. 

52 



CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Grind one chicken after it has been cooked tender in hot 
water. Mix with cooked dressing and spread between but- 
tered bread. Celery and any kind of nuts may be added to 
chicken. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Cut very thin slices of ham. Butter bread, brush with 
dressing and lay on the slice of ham and put the bread on 
top. Press together. Ham may be ground, mixed with 
hard boiled eggs and dressing and spread between bread. 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 
Slice bread thin, butter and toast. Brush with dressing. 
Put on slice of chicken or turkey, thin slice of pickle and 
two slices of crisp bacon. Mayonnaise may be used and 
some use lettuce leaf on bread with dressing before adding 
the other things. 

STUFFED OLIVE SANDWICHES. 
Cut olives and mix with cooked dressing. Add pecans 
and mix with Neufchatel cheese and dressing. Spread be- 
tween thin slices of bread. 

SANDWICHES FILLING. 

3 or four hard-boiled eggs, 1 jar Mapleleaf cheese, 
cut fine. 1/2 can pimentos. 

Mix all into cooked dressing. 

SALMON AND EGG SANDWICHES. 

Pick and drain one can salmon, have ready three hard 
cooked eggs. Chop all together, add one large cucumber 
pickle, spread with dressing between thin slices of toasted 
bread or crisp crackers. 

DEVILED HAM SANDWICHES. 

1 can deviled ham. 3 sticks celery, cut fine. 

1 cup chopped pecans. V2 cup dressing. 

Mix all together and spread between bread. Any meat 
or cold chicken may be used with nuts and dressing for 
sandwiches. 

53 



BROWN AND WHITE BREAD SANDWICHES. 

Cut thin slices of each, spread v/ith butter and nuts and 
press together. Any filling desired using one slice of each. 

ROLLED SANDWICHES. 

Cut fresh bread thin, trim off crust with scissors. Spread 
with chicken paste, pate de fois gras, or anchovy paste. 
Roll the slices small, serve with salad at a reception or din- 
ner. It is an easy matter to find sandwich fillings. There 
are so many canned meats, peanut butter and other things 
to fall back on in emergency, v/hen fresh material cannot 
be obtained. 

MOCK CRAB SANDWICHES. 

1/4 copfiii grated cheese. 1 tablespoon chopped olives. 

1/4, teaspoon salt. ' 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

14 teaspoon paprika. 2 tablespoons creamed butter. 

14 teaspoon mustard. 
1 teaspoon anchovy paste. 

TOMATO SANDWICH. 

Take a slice of white bread buttered. On this lay a let- 
tuce leaf, spread with cooked dressing. Place on it one 
perfect slice of tomato, cut thin and peeled. Add a top 
layer of bread. Use mayonnaise or cooked dressing. 

SWEET SANDWICHES— WAFER SANDWICHES 
COCOANUT SANDWICHES. 

Make cream icing ; let cool. Add cocoanut freshly grated, 
put between sweet or crisp wafers. 

MARSHMALLOW SANDWICHES. 

Use chocolate wafers. Brush with butter, lay marsh- 
mallows between two wafers. Run in stove to melt filling, 
brush top with butter and sprinkle with finely ground al- 
monds. 

MACAROON SANDWICHES. 

Use cream or mocha filling. Add ground and browned 
almonds or pecans chopped fine. Put between two maca- 
roons, press together and serve with tea or chocolate for 
afternoon tea. 

54 



DELICIOUS SANDWICHES. 

Use light sponge cake, spread Delmonica pudding be- 
tween thin shcGS of cake. These make nice reception sand- 
wiches. Add nuts. 

ICE CREAM SANDWICHES. 

Bake sponge cake in sheets about one inch thick. Cut 
this into pieces three and one-half inches long and one and 
one-half inches wide. This is half the size of a slice cut 
from a quart of brick cream. Split the piece of cake in 
two, making of each one of them two slices, between which 
place a layer of cream, just as one would put filling between 
bread in an ordinary sandwich. Cut a quart of brick cream 
into ten slices, then half each slice. Thus one quart of brick 
cream serves twenty people. 

Arrange the cake and cream to form a sandwich, on 
top of each place a tablespoon whipped cream and candied 
cherry. 

ALMOND KISSES. 

1 cup blanched and ground 6 eggs, whites, 
almonds. II/2 cups sugar. 

Beat eggs very stiff, add sugar, and beat well. Fold in 
nuts and drop with tube or spoon on linen paper and bake 
in oven when fire dying out. Pecan kisses made same way, 
using one tumbler of half meats. 

CHESTNUT MARGUERITES. 

Press one-half cup preserved chestnuts through a sieve. 
One-half cup fine chopped candied cherries and seeded 
raisins; soften in cream icing. Put between crackers, for 
lunch or afternoon tea. 



BOX LUNCHES. 



In this day of picnics, auto and yachting parties, the 
lunch box is an important factor and one that gives the 
housekeeper many an anxious hour. 

When one can afford hampers, with all the modern con- 
veniences, not so much planning is necessary, but the aver- 

66 



age house is not so well blessed, and for this lunch it re- 
quires much more care in the preparation. 

Sandwiches form the most important part of the lunch 
box. 

The most economical way is to cut the bread in strips, 
squares and triangles, but fancy shapes can be made with 
cake cutters. 

Variety may be given by adding finely chopped onion, 
pickles, olives, mint or parsley to the creamed butter. Never 
make them too moist to be kept for any length of time. In 
the point of keeping quality are ham, chicken, and tongue, 
next cheese and nut combination, and also the sweet sand- 
wiches. These can be wrapped in oil paper and fastened 
with the small seals. They are dainty for a picnic lunch. 
Next comes the pastry and sweets. 

Individual pies and patties should be used in preference 
to large ones. These should be wrapped in parafRne paper 
and packed in a box. Marguerites, cream puffs, chess cakes, 
cup custards, and charlottes may be carried if left in the 
individual cups they are molded in and carefully packed. 

Olives, pickels, etc., are carried in bottles. 

Candj^ and bonbons in small boxes. 

Eggs should be well cooked, seasoned and wrapped in 
paraffine paper. 

Ripe fruit is always acceptable, and easily carried. Some 
do not like bananas, but for school children, they are easy 
to pack in a lunch basket. 

A bottle of lemon sirup and also a strong solution of 
coffee can be taken. Add two tablespoons to a cup of boil- 
ing water. At picnics, it is nice to use paper dishes, nap- 
kins, cups, tablecloths, and destroy after using. This re- 
lieves the burden of carrying heavy linen. 

Any kind of meat can be used to make sandwiches. 
Cold roast beef should have a bit of horseradish mixed with 
butter before spreading. Cold pork with Chili sauce; cold 
lamb a few chopped capers, veal tomato catsup, chicken and 
other fowls a little salad dressing; tongue, corned beef and 
ham call for French mustard ; cheese for mustard and dress- 
ing. Egg paste is good spread between bread ; nut butters 
come ready, but a little seasoning adds to them. 



56 



BREADS. 

ENGLISH TEA BISCUITS. 

4 cups flour. 2 tablespoons butter or fat. 

4 level teaspoons baking 1 cup mashed potatoes. 

powder. 1 cup milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Boil and mash potatoes, having them free from lumps. 
Sift the flour, salt and baking powder, add potatoes and 
rub in fat or butter. Mix to a light dough with egg and 
milk; roll out a little thinner than ordinary biscuits and 
bake in hot oven. Serve hot. Use potatoes while warm. 

SODA BISCUITS 

1 qt. flour. 3 level teaspoons baking 

1 teaspoon soda. powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 kitchen spoon fat. 

1 cup sour milk. 

Sift soda, salt, and flour, mix in lightly the fat. Make 
into soft dough with milk. Knead smooth, roll out, cut and 
bake quickly. Leave piece of dough size of biscuit, put into 
one cup sour milk, let stand until next time, and use in 
making up the dough. This makes lovely light biscuits. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

V/o lb. flour. 2 teaspoons sugar (dissolve 

5 ozs. lard. the sugar in water). 
11/2 teaspoons salt. 1 cup water. 

Blend with flour, lard and salt. Mix into a stiff dough 
with water in which sugar has been dissolved. Work well. 
Beat or roll until dough blisters. Bake in moderate oven 
until light brown. 

BEATEN BISCUIT NO. 2. ^ 

1 qt. flour. 2 tablespoons com starch. 

1/2 teaspoon baking powder. Lard size of goose egg. 
1 level teaspoon salt. 

Two-thirds cup of milk and water, half of each with one 
teaspoon of sugar dissolved in milk ; have dough very stiff- 
Beat or roll until it blisters. 



Oi 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

1 cup flour. 1 tablespoon fat. 

2 level teaspoons baking 1 teaspoon salt. 

powder. 

Sift dry materials together. Mix fat into flour with 
fork or knife. Make into soft dough with sweet milk. Use 
hand to mould in shape ; cut with biscuit cutter or knife and 
bake in quick oven, 

FRUIT ROLLS. 

These are made with baking powder biscuit dough ; make 
richer if desired. Roll thin, spread with mixture chopped 
raisins and nuts, sprinkle with sugar, roll like jelly roll, cut 
into rounds and bake quickly. 



EGG ROLLS. 

Into a pint of flour sift two teaspoons baking powder 
and sift again. Rub into the flour one tablespoon butter. 
To one cup sweet milk add a pinch of salt and one beaten 
egg, then the flour. Make a soft dough, even if it requires 
a little more flour. Roll very thin, use a large round cut- 
ter, butter the top, fold over, brush again with butter, and 
bake in hot oven. 

SALLY LUNN NO, 1. 

1 pt, flour, 3 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 cake yeast. 

1/4 teaspoon salt. 14 cup warm water. 

1 scant cup milk. 1 egg. 

Sift flour, sugar and salt. Warm milk and melt into 
this the butter. Stir in flour, add yeast after it is dissolved. 
Beat egg separately and add to mixture. Pour all this into 
a buttered cake pan. Let stand until double its bulk. Brush 
with melted butter, sprinkle with sugar and bake in mod- 
erate oven. Serve warm, cut into squares. 

58 



MY SPECIAL ROLLS. 

Cook well done enough Irish potatoes to amount to one 
and a half cups when run through ricer; dissolve one cake 
of yeast in one cup of tepid water ; to the potatoes add two 
eggs beaten light, one-half cup of sugar, then the yeast; 
add one cup of flour and one cup of sweet milk, alternately, 
beating with egg whip ; if necessary, add more flour to make 
as thick as for batter cakes ; let rise to twice its bulk in 
warm place free from draughts; make into smooth dough 
with one quart of flour, one heaping teaspoon of salt and 
one cooking spoonful of fat. In winter it takes batter about 
two hours to rise. In summer not so long. Roll out. cut 
with biscuit cutter, put into greased pan, grease the tops, 
cover, let rise one hour, and bake. 

YEAST BREADS. 

W'lioi.i-; W'lii-.AT l-'i.ofR P)Ri:.\i). 

1 cup scalded milk. i/_> cup lukewarm water. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 spoon salt. 

1 cake yeast. 

Add boiling water to milk, with salt. When lukewarm 
add yeast dissolved in one-half cup lukewarm water. Beat 
into this with egg whip enough flour to make batter. Whip 
until light and then add flour to knead into dough. Knead 
well, let rise until light. Shape into loaves, let rise again, 
and bake forty minutes. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Made same way, adding one-third cup of molasses, using 
equal measures of white and graham flour. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

1 cake yeast. IV2 cups flour. 

34 cup lukewarm water. 

Dissolve yeast in water; add flour, beat well, let rise to 
nearly double its bulk, then add one-fourth cup butter 
creamed with one-third cup sugar, two beaten eggs. Add 
one-half cup Sultana raisins and flour enough to make stiff 
batter, or enough to knead like bread. Let rise, work down, 
and spread in buttered pans, making dough about one-half 



5!) 



inch thick. When light put in oven, sprinkle with sugar and 
chopped nuts. Brush top with melted butter before sugar 
and nuts are put on bread. Some cover with coating made 
of confectioners' sugar and water made into a paste. This 
recipe can be rolled out, cut in shapes and made into sweet 
rusks by adding one-half cup sugar, a few more raisins 
and nuts. 

CORNMEAL CAKES. 

1 pint meal. 1 pint milk. 

1 heaping tablespoon cooked 1 tablespoon flour. 

rice. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs beaten separately. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Mix meal, flour, salt, baking powder and rice. Add milk 
and yolks well beaten, and last, the stiff whites. Cook in 
hot fat till brown. 

CORNMEAL DROP CAKES. 

1 pint meal. 1 tablespoon fat. 

1/^ teaspoon salt. 2 eggs beaten separately. 

1 cup hot water. 

Stir in salt and fat. When cold add yolks well beaten. 
If too thick add a little more milk or water. Add stiffly 
beaten whites last. Drop with spoon on greased hot grid- 
dle and cook on one side until brown, and puffed and full 
of air bubbles, then turn and cook on other side until cooked 
through. 

DROPPED CORNBREAD. 

2 cups cornmeal. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 2 cups boiling water. 

Sift meal, salt and sugar. Pour over this boiling water ; 
let stand fifteen minutes, until perfectly cool. Drop spoon- 
fuls in hot fat and fry delicate brown. A little sweet milk 
may be added to water if desired. 

MUSH BREAD. 

1 pint sweet milk. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

y^ pint cornmeal. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Heat milk to scalding point, stir in slowly meal. When 
done remove from fire, add butter, salt and beat well. Then 
add one q%^ beaten separately. Bake until light brown in 
a buttered dish. 

60 



WAFFLES (VERY DELICATE). 

IV2 cups flour. 14 cup com starch. 

2 teaspoons baking pow- 1 cup rich milk. 

der. 14 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon melted but- 3 beaten eggs. 

ter or fat. 

Sift dry ingredients together. Beat eggs, add milk and 
stir in flour. Add butter. Cook in hot greased irons and 
serve. 

HICKORYNUT BREAD. 

1 egg. 1 cup nuts. 

1 cup sugar. 4V^ cups flour. 

1 cup sweet milk, 4 level teaspoons baking 

1 teaspoon salt. powder. 

Mix well and let stand twenty minutes in two pans nine 
inches long, four and three-quarter inches wide, three inches 
deep. This amount just fills these two pans. Grease pans 
and over top of loaves with melted butter; bake in mod- 
erate oven until done. (Use the one-half cup flour to knead 
in soft dough.) 

SALLY LUNN WITHOUT YEAST NO. 2. 

2 eggs. 3 level teaspoons baking 

1 scant cup sugar. powder. 

3 cups flour. 1 cup sweet milk. 

2 tablespoons butter. 

Cream butter, add sugar and cream ; beat yolks of eggs 
and add to sugar and butter; sift flour with baking pow- 
der and stir in first mixture, alternating with milk; last 
fold in beaten whites. Make like cake, bake in flat pan and 
eat while hot with butter. 

QUICK GRAHAM BREAD. 

2 cups graham flour. 4 level teaspoons baking 
1 cup white flour. powder. 

1-3 cup sugar. I14 cups milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Make into batter with care, sifting powder with flour 
several times, 1 scant cup chopped nuts and one cup dates 
seeded. Put into well buttered loaf pans and bake. 

Add 2 eggs well beaten, 1 large spoon shortening leaving 
out nuts and raisins and bake in muffin rings. 

61 



QUICK COFFEE CAKE. 

1 pint flour. 3 level teaspoons baking 

1-3 cup sugar. powder. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 14 cup sweet milk. 

1 egg. 4 tablespoons melted butter. 

y2 teaspoon salt. 

Sift all dry material twice together. Beat egg, add milk 
and stir in flour. Add melted butter. Spread in shallow 
pan, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and bake. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

2 cups whole wheat flour. 1 teaspoon of salt. 
1 cup water-ground meal. 

Sift together, and mix well, then add three-fourths cup 
dark molasses and 1 cup of butter milk. When ready to 
put in cans, add other half cup of milk, in which 2 level 
teaspoons of soda have been dissolved. For raisin bread, 
use one-half box of seeded raisins washed and pressed dry. 

For the fruit bread, 1 cup of mixed chopped fruits, such 
as raisins, citron, cherries or pineapple. 

To steam : Fill one pound baking powder cans two-thirds 
full and place in vessel of warm water. Cover with several 
thicknesses of cloth and a top and steam three hours, add- 
ing more water if necessary. Premium brown bread. 

POP OVERS. 

1 cup flour. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup sweet milk. 2 eggs. 

Mix carefully and pour into greased rings. 

Bake in hot oven 30 or 35 minutes until crisp and brown. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

114 cups prepared rice. 1 cup flour. 

1 cup milk. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Brush muffin rings with fat and cook till brown. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

2 cups sour milk. 2 eggs beaten separately. 
1 cup meal. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 1 scant spoon salt. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Sift meal and flour, mix yolks, add milk and soda, then 
milk, add whites beaten last. Cook in hot muffin rings or 
greased griddles. 

62 



OLD FASHIONED RUSK. 

Sift twice together: 

21/2 cups flour. 1/0 cup butter creamed. 

1 teaspoon each of cinna- 2 1-3 cups sugar (brown) . 

mon and soda. 1 egg. 

1/2 teaspoon each salt, 1 cup milk, 
cloves and nutmeg. 

Blend these all well together, stir in last a cup of raisins 
or dates cut into strips, bake in a moderate oven, using a 
deep loaf pan. 

BROWN BREAD. 

1 cup white flour. 1 cup New Orleans mo- 

1 cup meal. lasses. 

1 cup buttermilk. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons soda. 

Mix well, put into well buttered molds. Add 1 cup 
chopped raisins and steam three and one-half hours. 

OATMEAL BROWN BREAD. 

1 cup graham flour. %. cup molasses. 

1 pint Quaker oats. 2 teaspoons salt. 

% cup cornmeal. 1 pint sour milk. 

Mix all well, steam 2 hours in greased molds, half hour 
in timbal cups. 

OAT FLAKE BREAD. 

1 cup molasses. V2 teaspoon salt. 

2 cups buttermilk. 1 pk. seeded raisins wash- 
4 cups ground oat flakes. ed and dried. 

11/2 cups flour. 

After mixing one teaspoon soda each separately with 
butter milk and molasses, mix milk and molasses, stir in 
oat flakes, then flour and salt, then add raisins floured 
with little extra flour. Bake in five 1-lb. baking powder 
cans with tops on — fill little over half full, grease cans and 
bake in very slow oven IV2 hours. 

63 



PINEAPPLE MUFFINS. 



3 cups flour. 


1/2 cup sugar. 


3 teaspoons baking pow- 


1 cup milk. 


der. 


l^ teaspoon soda, added to 


2 eggs, beaten light. 


pineapple only. 


14 cup butter, or fat. 


1/^ can shredded pineapple, 


1/2 teaspoon salt. 


strained. 



Mix and cook same as any muffin batter. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

1 cup flour. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

2 eggs. 1/2 cup water. 
1 tablespoon butter or fat. 

Beat yolks as for cake, add water, beat into this the flour 
and lemon juice. Add fat just before using, add beaten 
whites last. 

FRUIT FRITTERS. 

Peel, core and slice apples. Let stand an hour, sprinkle 
with sugar. Drain, dip into batter and fry. 

Pineapple, peaches, apricots or bananas may be used in 
this way. Use one kind or chop fruit using a combination. 
Add to batter and drop by spoonfuls into fat and fry. May 
be served with sauce. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

1 cup corn. 1 teaspoon butter. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon cream or rich 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

milk. 
Mix all together and fry in hot fat. 

ORANGE BREAD. 

V2 yeast cake. 1 teaspoon salt. 

^ cup lukewarm water. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

2 eggs well beaten. Grated rind of 3 oranges. 

2 tablespoons melted but- 1 cup of orange juice, 

ter. 4 light cups flour. 

2 tablespoons fat. ' 

Dissolve yeast in the warm water and beat this, with 
other ingredients, thoroughly together. After this is done 
add the flour and knead until elastic. Cover, allow, to rise 
and make into loaves. Let the loaves rise and bake in hot 
oven. 

64 



SALADS. 

The success of a salad depends upon the pleasant com- 
bination of the materials. We cannot always find new ma- 
terial for novelties in this line, but in studying the combi- 
nations and serving of the many delightful things that na- 
ture has given us we are always able to produce a variety 
of new salads, and to make beautiful garnishes for this 
pleasing course at a dinner or luncheon. 

Most all salads must be lightly blended and some mixed 
at serving time. They must be cold, crisp and daintily 
served. Salads form a separate course at a dinner or for- 
mal affair. For family use they are usually served with 
the dinner. 

The selection of the salad depends largely upon the rest 
of the menu. A vegetable salad is the favorite one for 
home use, as it combines in flavor with all kinds of meat, 
and makes a well-balanced meal — the one that appeals to 
the working class. 

We give a variety of recipes and many more can be used 
from these suggestions. There are several kinds of dress- 
ing, some with oil, some without. One kind may blend more 
agreeably with some salads than others. We give a cooked 
dressing that is especially good. It may seem expensive, 
but when we realize the fact that it keeps indefinitely in 
glass jars with glass top in sanitary refrigerators, and can 
be made from left-over yolks, it will prove itself both eco- 
nomical and a labor-saving help in many ways. 

SALADS AND DRESSINGS. 
CHICKEN SALAD WITH ALMONDS— TEN PEOPLE. 

1 good hen. 3 stalks celery. 

14 lb. almonds, blanched. * 

Steam or cook chicken until tender. When ready to 
take from the fire have one quart or more stock. Cut 
chicken and celery same size. Cut almonds lengthwise, each 
into two or three pieces. Mix all lightly together and add 
enough cooked dressing to season well. Serve on lettuce 
with mayonnaise or same kind of dressing with whipped 
cream. 

G5 

(5) 



PINEAPPLE-CHERRY SALAD. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup of oil, thfn with lemon juice, add 
to this mayonnaise, 1/2 pint of cream whipped till stiff, and 
the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, 1 envelope of Knox's gela- 
tine. Soaked in qt. cold water, dissolved in boiling water. 
When this has cooled but not congealed blend with mayon- 
naise, cream and whites of eggs, 1 can white cherries, 
stoned, halved, drained, 2 cans of pineapple chopped, V2 lb. 
marshmallows, 1/0 cup chopped almonds. Blend with dress- 
ing when ready to serve. 

CHICKEN ASPIC FROM THE STOCK. 

1 qt. steamed stock. 1 box gelatin. 

1 onion. Mi.pt. water, cold. 

Cut onion in pieces, drop into stock, let stand or put on 
fire to season ; salt and pepper to taste. Let gelatine soak 
in half pint cold water. Pour over this the hot strained 
stock. When nearly cold put into mold. Add to this the 
yolks of hard boiled eggs, or one or two whole eggs cut 
into pieces. Stuffed olives look pretty cut in rings through 
this aspic. This makes a pretty ring to serve the chicken 
salad in, and can be garnished with cucumber daisies on 
lettuce. 

CHRYSANTHEMUM SALAD FOR FALL. 



12 oranges. 


1 lb. green grapes. 


1 chicken. 


1/2 lb. nuts if you wish, 


3 stalks celery. 





Make chicken salad with celery and nuts (pecans). Cut 
orange peel in quarters to bottom without entirely remov- 
ing them. With scissors cut in strips as small as can be 
cut. Divide the orange in sections, making a double chry- 
santhemum. Fill in center with salad, putting grapes on 
top. Serve with heavy garnish of lettuce. Beautiful when 
yellow chrysanthemums are used in decorations. 

STUFFED CELERY SALAD. 

Mix Neufchatel cheese with cream; season with salt and 
pepper. Cut up green pepper fine and add to cheese. Stuff 
celery and cut in pieces an inch long. Served with stuffed 
olives on lettuce. 

66 



MOLDED FRUIT SALAD. 

1 cup boiled dressing. 1 rounding tablespoon gela- 

V2 cup whipped cream. tin soaked in 1 4 c'up wa- 

ter. 

Mix cream and dressing together, pour in gradually the 
cooled gelatin. Have ready one can white cherries, one 
small bottle maraschino cherries, one can pineapple, one 
cup nuts. Cut in small pieces. Drain and dry in towel. 
Sprinkle with salt; fold lightly in dressing. Put into mold 
and let stand on ice several hours. 

APPLE AND NUT SALAD. 

4 juicy apples. 1/. lb. seeded raisins. 

Meat of 1/2 lb. English or 
black walnuts. 

Sei've with VN-hipped cream and lemon on lettuce leaf. 

NEUFCHATEL CHEESE MOLDED WITH NUTS. 

Make soft Neufchatel cheese with a tablespoonful melted 
butter, half a cup of sweet cream, a dash of red pepper and 
a cup of English walnuts or pecans blanched and chopped, 
or chopped olives and pimentos until well mixed. Press 
into an oval shape on a serving dish, serve with vegetable 
salad — celery, tomato or lettuce preferred — and crackers. 

APPLE AND CHEESE SALAD. 

6 apples. 2 lemons. 

14 lb- nuts. 1 cup dressing. 

1 lb. cheese. 

Marinate applet, cut in cubes in lemon juice. Cut cheese 
in cubes also. When ready to serve, mix lightly together 
and add mayonnaise. Put pecan on top. serve on lettuce 
leaf. 

MOLDED MAYONNAISE. 

1 cup of onion aspic. 1 cup of mayonnaise. 

Make aspic with two cups of water, two onions and two 
tablespoons gelatine. Cook onions in water ten minutes 
and add a little salt. Dissolve gelatine in two tablespoons 
cold water. Add this to one cup of onion water while hot. 
When cold fold in mayonnaise. Color green and serve in 
mold with veal and tomatoes cut in cubes around the mold 
of mayonnaise. 

(17 



GINGER ALE SALAD. 

One box of gelatine. 1 cup of water. 

1 bottle of ginger ale. Juice of three lemons. 

14 cup of sugar. 1 cup of chopped celery. 

1 cup of chopped apples. 1 small can of pineapple. 

2 tablespoons canton gin- 
ger. 

Soak gelatine in the cold water. Heat pineapple juice 
with sugar and lemon juice. Add gelatine when cool, then 
ginger ale and fruit. Put in mold on ice to congeal. 

APRICOT AND COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD. 

1 can apricots. 1 lb. cottage cheese. 

1/2 box gelatine. 2 lemons. 

1/2 cup of sugar. 1/2 cup of water. 

Soak gelatine in water, cut apricots and lightly mix with 
cheese. Dissolve sugar in syrup of apricots and add gela- 
tine while hot; add lemon juice. When cool mix with fruit 
and cheese. Put in mold to congeal. 

PEAR AND CELERY SALAD. 

1 can pears. 2 lemons. 

2 tablespoons gelatine. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Put lemon juice, sugar and pear syrup on to boil. Add 
gelatine. When dissolved take off to cool. Drain pears, 
place in flat dish filled with chopped celery, cover with the 
pear syrup. Cheese may be used if desired. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Celery and apples, equal parts of each. Add pecans to 
make it better. Mix lightly with dressing and chill. Serve 
on pretty lettuce. 

THANKSGIVING SALAD. 

Bright red apples scooped out and filled with stuffed cel- 
ery. Whipped cream dressing. 

CELERY AND APPLE. 

Cut celery in small pieces. Grate apple, drain. Mix ap- 
ple with mayonnaise dressing; fold in celery. Chill and 
serve in lettuce cups. 

68 



ASPARAGUS LOAF. 

2 tablespoons butter. Seasoning to taste (salt, 

2 tablespoons flour. paprika and pepper). 

4 eggs. 1 can asparagus with the 

1 scant tablespoon gelatine. liquid. 

1 lemon (juice). 1 pt. whipped cream. 

Heat butter in double boiler and strain flour to which 
has been added water into butter, stirring all the time until 
it becomes thick. Beat eggs well and pour over eggs the 
flour and butter, stirring: eggs continually. Put this mix- 
ture again in double boiler and cook until eggs are done, 
stirring same until ready to remove from the fire. (This 
only takes a few moments.) Then add the dissolved gela- 
tine. Add seasonings and juice of lemon. When cool add 
whipped cream (about four large kitchen spoonfuls). Line 
pan with asparagus tips and pour over same this mixture 
and layer of asparagus on top. Put on ice to congeal and 
serve with whipped cream mayonnaise, to which has been 
added a little lemon juice. 

If you would give the loaf the asparagus flavor beat in. 
the custard the tender shoots of the asparagus tips. 

AMERICAN CREAM CHEESE SALAD. 

Mold grated or mashed cheese well seasoned into balls 
size of marbles. Serve on lettuce leaf with French dressing. 

CHEESE AND TOMATO. 

Scoop out tomato, fill with grated cheese over the 
chopped meat of tomato. Put green pepper rings around 
tomato. Serve any kind of dressing that taste suggests. 

CARROT SALAD. 

1 cup raw carrots, peeled 1 cucumber, cut m small 

and diced. pieces. 

1 cup tomatoes, cut in small 1 onion, cut in small pieces. 

pieces. 1 green pepper, cut in small 

pieces. 

Mix with a small quantity of oil or cooked dressing, salt 
to taste, and serve cold on lettuce with a teaspoon of dress- 
ing on each serving. Other vegetables may be used if pre- 
ferred, as celery or beets. 

G9 



STUFFED PEPPER SALAD. 

6 green peppers. 1 can pimento. 

4 Neufchatel cheeses. 

Remove seeds and veins from pepper. Mash and sea- 
son cheese with salt, pepper and a little cream. Line pep- 
pers with pimento and stuff with cheese. Set on ice until 
chilled. With a sharp knife slice the peppers into rings. 
Serve two or three rings on lettuce leaf with French dress- 
ing. 

WATERMELON SALAD MADE OF APPLES. 

Cut green apples into six or eight pieces. With brush 
and pink fruit coloring paint the apple, leaving enough white 
to look like watermelon. Brush the edges with green. 
While damp from the color dip in celery seed to represent 
watermelon seed. Use the above to decorate celery and 
apple salad. 

EGGS FOR SALAD OR LUNCH. 

Boil eggs for twenty minutes or until thoroughly done. 
Drain off water, peel and roll in palm of hand until round. 
Brush with small paint brush, using damask rose or green. 
Put a stem on top and you will have a perfect June apple. 
Cut eggs to make pond lily salad. Stuff eggs with yolks 
and the same dressing for sandwiches, and put back in 
whites for lunch. 

CELERY AND FRUIT SALAD. 

2 stalks celery. 3 oranges. 

i/i> lb. walnuts. 1 lb. Malaga grapes. 

Cut celery in half-inch pieces, oranges in halves and 
scoop out meat. Seed grapes, mix lightly with either cooked 
dressing or mayonnaise. Serve in orange cups in wreaths 
of smilax. 

WEDDING SALAD. 

1 lb. white grapes. 1 can white pears. 

1 lb. marshmallov/s. 

Split grapes and take out seed. Cut marshmallows in 
two pieces. Mix lightly Vvdth cooked dressing. Fill half 
pear and serve in cup of lettuce. Make dressing white with 
whipped cream. 

70 



CHERRY SALAD. 

Stuff red cherries with blanched almonds. Stuff white 
cherries with cream cheese. Mix lightly with dressing and 
serve on endive or lettuce. Serve with bread hatchets for 
Washington salad. 

DRESSING WITHOUT EGGS. 

1 heaping tablespoon flour. '/_> teaspoon mustard. 

1 heaping tablespoon sugar, i/j cup vinegar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons butter. 

1 teaspoon white pepper. 1 cup sweet milk. 

Mix ingredients and put into double boiler, stirring con- 
stantly until thick. Allow to cool and then stir in one-half 
the amount of cream. 

VALENTINE SALAD NO. 1. 

1 qt. can tomatoes. 1 box gelatin, dissolved in 1/2 

1 large onion, pt. water; add tablet 

1 cup water. with gelatin to make a 

pretty red. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Put tomatoes, onion cut in pieces, water and seasoning 
on fire in stewpan. Let cook until tomatoes are soft. Strain 
over gelatine and stir until thoroughly dissolved. When cool, 
put in square pan an inch deep. Cut out with heart cake 
cutter and serve on lettuce with wreath of celery. Write 
Valentine with mayonnaise across heart. 

VALENTINE SALAD NO. 2. 

1 ring of pineapple. 1 heart cut out of pimento 

and put on top of the 
ring. 

Pass mayonnaise and lay an arrow made from bread 
across the heart. Have more toasted bread arrows on side 
of the plate. Serve on lettuce. Cut a few stuffed olives 
and lay around ring. 

TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Cut off stem end of tomato, scoop out some of the meat 
and chop this with tender cucumber. Serve with mayon- 
naise. Sprinkle nuts on top ; serve on lettuce leaf. 

71 



PINEAPPLE AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

1 can pineapple chunks. 1 box gelatine. 

1 large cucumber. 1 cup water. 

3 lemons. 1 cup sugar. 

Cut pineapple in one-half-inch squares. Cut cucumber in 
cubes. Mix lightly together. Soak gelatin in cup water. 
Put juice from pineapple and lemons on with cup sugar, 
boil five minutes, add gelatin. When dissolved strain and 
set aside to cool. When this begins to set, add cucumber 
and pineapple. Use mould and set on ice. When ready to 
serve turn out on lettuce and serve with whipped cream 
and lemon. One green pepper cut fine and one-half pound 
green grapes may be added to this mixture. 

TOMATO AND SHRIMP SALAD. 

Cut off top of tomato, scoop out and fill with shrimps 
that have been seasoned with mayonnaise. Serve on let- 
tuce leaf. 

POTATO SALAD. 

1 pt. boiled potatoes. 3 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 onion, minced. 

Chop onion fine, cut potatoes in cubes, cut yolks and 
whites of eggs in small pieces, or rings. Mix with cooked 
dressing-. Good everyday salad. Cut potatoes in balls with 
vegetable scoop for top of salad. One-half pound crisp ba- 
con makes a nice addition. 

SWEETBREAD AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

1 pair sweetbreads, cooked 2 medium sized cucumbers. 
and cooled. 

Peel cucumbers and stand in ice water for an hour, cut 
in dice almost half inch, break sweetbreads into small bits 
with silver knife, mix lightly, serve in cucumber boats on 
lettuce, with following dressing: 

1 pt. double cream. 1/4 teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons lemon juice. Dash cayenne. 

Whip cream solid, mix gradually the lemon and season- 
ing; fold into salad. 



VANDERBILT-SEWANEE SALAD. 

Soften Neufchatel with a little cream, season with pep- 
per and salt, color with violet color paste, delicate ; fill large 
celery sticks. With silver knife scrape off even; let stand 
in icebox to chill. Fill some sticks with yellow cream cheese 
softened and seasoned. When cold, cut with sharp knife 
in inch pieces and pile on lettuce. Garnish platter with 
small chrysanthemum oranges filled with cooked dressing 
made stiff with whipped cream. 

SPANISH SALAD. 

3 good-sized tomatoes. 1 can pimento. 

2 green peppers. 1 slice of each on lettuce with 

1 Spanish onion. mayonnaise. 

ONE THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING. 

Yellows of 4 hard boiled eggs, grated, 3^ cup olive oil, 
li/j cups Chili sauce. Grated onion to suit taste. 

SPAGHETTI SALAD. 

Take one-fourth package of spaghetti, broken into small 
pieces, boil in salted water until soft. As soon as tender, 
throw into bowl of ice water to bleach. When cold, dry on 
soft towel. Mix with it i^ently one boiled white potato, 
two hard boiled eggs, one-half cup each of chopped celery 
and sharp cheese, one-half teaspoon onion juice, one chopped 
pimento, two peeled tomatoes ; season to taste with salt, 
white pepper and paprika. Pour on all a generous quantity 
of salad dressing. Let stand for half hour to season. Ar- 
range on lettuce leaves with slice of tomato and half of 
stuffed olive on top of each. Serve cold with cheese wafers. 

ROQUEFORT SALAD. 

% cup Roquefort cheese. 3 tablespoons tarragon vine- 
2 hard boiled eggs. gar. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. V2 cup olive oil. 
1/2 teaspoon paprika. 2 head crisp lettuce. 

Wash lettuce. Crumble cheese into very small bits. 
Run eggs through ricer. Make the French dressing. Blend 
carefully with the cheese and mix with lettuce until each 
leaf is coated. Serve in salad bowl with crisp wafers. 



FROZEN VEGETABLE SALAD. 

9 large tomatoes. 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 

1 stalk celery. sauce. 

2 medium sized cucumbers. Y^ teaspoon grated horse rad- 
1 green pepper. ish. 

1 tablespoon grated onion. 1 cup cooked dressing. 

1 cup whipped cream. 

Peel and cut fresh tomatoes in small pieces. Put in 
colander to drain. Peel cucumbers thick, cut through twice, 
make slices in quarters. Mix with tomatoes, add celery and 
pepper cut fine. Mix in sauce, horseradish and onion, 
sprinkle with salt. Then fold in lightly cooked dressing. 
Have melon mould ready. Put layer of salad and some of 
whipped cream, then layer of salad and cream, until mould 
is full. Pack in ice and salt for three or three and half 
hours. When ready to serve turn out on platter of pretty 
lettuce leaves. Garnish with pepper rings. Pass dressing. 

POINSETTIA SALAD (For Christmas). 

Place ring of pineapple on pretty lettuce leaf, drain can 
of pimentos and wipe dry. With scissors cut six long pe- 
tals with pointed ends and lay on pineapple to represent 
flower. Cut stamens from heart of lettuce and stand five 
or six in center. This makes a perfect flower. Serve with 
mayonnaise passed. 

BIRD NEST SALAD. 

Make soft cream cheese into little balls to represent 
eggs. Make nest of shredded lettuce. Put a spoonful of 
salad dressing in the nest, lay four or five eggs on top of 
this. Sprinkle with paprika. Neufchatel cheese makes 
pretty eggs, and may be tinted any delicate color. 

FROZEN CHEESE SALAD. 

2 lbs. cottage cheese. 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

4 large tomatoes. sauce. 

14 teaspoon salt. 1 cup cream. 

14 teaspoon cayenne. 1 green pepper. 

Cut tomatoes in pieces, drain, cut peppers. Mix cheese 
with cream and seasoning.- Add tomatoes and pepper. 
Pack in mould; turn out and slice. 

74 



CHEESE LOAF. 

1 tablespoon granulated "^^ cup cooked dressing. 

gelatine. 2 cups grated cheese. 

2 tablespoons cold water. i/> cup chopped pecans. 
C tablespoons loir n:;wat:r. 1/2 cup stuffed olives. 

1 cup whipped cream. 
Soak gelatin in cold water five minutes. Pour boiling 
water over gelatin and stir until dissolved. When cool add 
dressing, cheese, olives, nuts, and fold in whipped cream. 
Mould in oiled mould. Serve as a salad. 

ASPARAGUS IN PIMENTO RINGS. 
Put asparagus tips in cooked dressin-^ and chill on ice; 
carefully slip in round pimento ring or put in whole pimen- 
to. Serve on lettuce. 

SWEETBREADS AND TOMATO SaLAD. 
1 lb. sweetbreads. 6 tomatoes. 

Cook and dice sweetbreads, cut off the tops of tomatoes 
and with a sharp knife carefully remove hearts and dice in 
pieces about the size of sweetbreads. Blend with cooked 
dressing and fill the tomato cups. Serve on lettuce leaves. 
Chicken may be used instead of sweetbread. 

CHEESE SALAD. 
V2 lb. American cream 4 tablespoons water. 

cheese. 1 teaspoon grated onion. 

1 pt. whipped cream. Salt and pepper to taste. 

1 tablespoon granulated 
gelatine. 
Put in half-dozen mall cups or moulds and chill. Serve 
with cooked dressing. 

SALMON WITH CUCUMBER DRESSING. 

1 can salm.on, picked and 1 teaspoon salt. 

broken into pieces. 2 teaspoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon gelatine, soak- 3 egg yolks. 

ed in i/j. cup cold water. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

1 teaspoon made mustard. 1 cup rich milk. 

Put milk in boiler. Beat other things together and add 
to milk. Cook until thick. Add gelatin to hot mixture. 
Lightly fold in salmon and pack in mold that has been 
dipped in cold water. Serve with cucumber dressing. 

75 



FROZEN TOMATO SALAD. 

1 can tomatoes. 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

1 small onion. sauce. 

y^ cup celery. i^ teaspoon paprika. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 cup whipped cream. 

~ Chop celery and onion and put on fire with tomatoes and 
cook until soft. Mash through a sieve. There should be 
one cup thick puree. Add salt, paprika, and when cold fold 
in one cup whipped cream. Put in mold and pack in salt 
and ice for three hours. Turn out and slice. Serve in slices 
on lettuce leaves. Neufchatel balls are pretty laid on the 
slice or around if in small molds. 

CUCUMBER DRESSING. 

1 cup whipped cream. 14 minced onion. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. l^ teaspoon salt. 
1 cucumber, chopped fine. 

Whip cream stiff. Lightly mix in other ingredients. 

HOLLAND HOUSE SALAD. 

Three grape-fruits pulled into large sections and ar- 
ranged on leaves of lettuce. One small bottle of marrons 
and two cakes of Neufchatel cheese mixed with cream and 
highly seasoned. Serve with mayonnaise. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

A tablespoon of vinegar, a dash of cayenne, three table- 
spoons olive oil, one-fourth teaspoon lemon juice, one-fourth 
teaspoon salt. Into a chilled cup put the salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. To this add the oil, and lastly, stirring con- 
stantly, add gradually the vinegar. Lemon juice may be 
used instead of vinegar if desired. 

NEW WAY TO MAKE MAYONNAISE. 

Put one whole q%% in bowl. Beat into this one pint of 
Wesson or olive oil, add lemon juice, salt and pepper to 
taste. Add to mayonnaise when just finished, one table- 
spoon boiling water for each cup of mayonnaise, beat in 
and when cool place on ice. This prevents separation. 

76 



OUR FAVORITE DRESSING. 

Yolks of 14 eggs. 1 teaspoon black pepper. 

1 cup vinegar. Dash cayenne. 

14 cup butter. 1 teaspoon celery seed. 

y<± cup sugar. 1 teaspoon made mustard. 

1 teaspoon salt. and a little onion juice 

if liked. 
Put vinegar and butter in double boiler. Beat yolks 
very, very lightly. Add other things to yolks. When vine- 
gar is hot, add eggs and cook until thick. When cold, add 
one pint whipped cream. Half of recipe makes enough for 
small family. This will keep for a week in refrigerator. 
Add whipped cream when ready to serve. 

CORN STARCH DRESSING. 

Yolks of two eggs. 1/2 cup of vinegar. 

14 cup of corn starch. 1 cup boiling water. 

Mix corn starch and vinegar thoroughly. Add boil- 
ing water and cook over boiling water until very thick and 
smooth. Add yolks when ready to take from the fire. When 
cold add one pint of oil and the juice of two lemons, salt 
and cayenne pepper to taste. 

OIL DRESSING. 

2 yolks (one cooked and 14 teaspoon salt. 

one raw). Pinch white pepper. 

1 cup oil. Vt teaspoon mustard. 
Juice 1 lemon. Little onion juice. 

Beat raw yolk light, add the cooked yolk mashed. Then 
add oil gradually, little lemon at a time. Season and keep 
in cool place. One yolk hard-boiled ^%z will be best. Add 
whipped cream. 

SLAW DRESSING. 

Beat yolks of 3 eggs with 1 teaspoon com starch, dis- 
1/2 cup sugar. solved in a little of the 

2 tablespoons melted but- milk. 

ter. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1/2 cup vinegar. 

1 cup cream or milk. A little cayenne pepper, 

and lastly the whites of 



eggs beaten stiff. 



Cook in double boiler. 



77 



RUSSIAN DRESSING. 

3 tablespoons mayonnaise. A little chives, cut fine. 

1 tablespoon Chili sauce. A dash of paprika. 

1 teaspoon tarragon vine- A little mustard. 

gar. A little salt. 
1 chopped pimento. 

If too thick make thin with vinegar same as used in 
dressing. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR COMBINATION OF FRUIT AND 
VEGETABLES FOR SALADS. 

One small half grapef uit with large cavity in center filled 
with finely chopped cucumber. French or cooked dressing. 

Birthday salad made with banana and pineapple ring. 
Cut banana to stand like a candle in the pineapple ring. 

Grapefruit, celery and grapes. 
Banana balls and pineapple. 

Large strawberries and pineapple cut in strips. Serve 
on chicory. 

Shrimp and capers served together with French dressing. 

Shrimp, cucumber and stuffed olives. 

Half pear filled with Neufchatel balls and mixed nuts. 

Peaches filled with stuffed cherries. 

Grapefruit and marrons. 

Egg and celery chopped in small pieces. 

Oranges and celery. 

Apples, grapes and celery. 

Tomatoes sliced with Neufchatel filling. Called "To- 
mato Sandwich Salad." 

Chicken salad with celery and grapes. 

Chicken, apples, celery and grapes. 

CHEESE BALLS NO. 1. 

1/^ lb. cream cheese. 1 teaspoon French mustard. 

2 tablespoons cream. 

Season with pepper and salt and a little onion. Grate 
or mash cheese. Add mustard, cream and seasoning. Form 
into balls and serve on lettuce. They may be rolled in 
ground nuts. 

7S 



CHEESE BALLS NO. 2. 

1/2 cup milk. Salt and pepper to taste. 

1 cup cream cheese. 

Put milk over fire in double boiler. Add cheese; stir 
until thick. Let cool, make into balls, put English walnut 
on each side and serve with salad or meat course. 

Ground and browned almonds mixed with cheese makes 
a g^ood combination. Make into balls and serve as above. 

CHEESE DREAMS NO. 1. 

Cut lightbread in thin slices. Cut cream cheese to make 
sandwiches. Cheese can be grated and put between. Brush 
over top with soft butter, run into stove until cheese melts 
and bread browns. Serve hot with meat course or salad. 

CHEESE DREAMS NO. 2. 

Cut small thin rounds of bread and cut cheese to fit, or 
put between two rounds of bread cheese filling. Saute in 
hot butter ; brown both sides. Cover for a minute when put 
in saucepan. You can use chafing dish for browning. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

1/2 lb. cream cheese. Salt and cayenne pepper, 

i egg. Flour to make soft dough. 

3 tablespoons water. 

Mix all well; grind cheese if not soft enough for mash. 
Add ep:g, water and seasoning, make into dough. Roll thin 
and cut with pastry cutter. Make rings and fill with straws 
(after they have been baked in moderate oven). They are 
pretty plaited in sticks and baked. 

CHEESE BISCUITS. 

1/2 lb. cream cheese. Dash cayenne pepper. 

V2 cup butter. 1 scant teaspoon salt. 

2 whole eggs. 

Grate cheese, add beaten eggs, pepper, salt, also butter. 
Mix lightly into enough flour to make soft dough. Roll thin, 
cut and bake carefully until delicate brown. 

79 



CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

1 cup bread crumDs. 1/2 tablespoon butter. 
1/2 cup sweet milk. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons grated Pinch cayenne pepper, 

cheese. Speck of soda. 

2 yolks, 3 whites of eggs. 

Beat yolks very light, add bread crumbs, milk, cheese 
and seasoning. Fold in whites and bake in oven until brown. 

TOMATO RABBIT. 

1 cup tomatoes. II/2 cup milk. 

1 cup cheese. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Pinch soda. • Pepper and salt. 

Cook and serve on crackers while hot. 



80 



VEGETABLES 



Vegetables should always be cooked when perfectly 
fresh. If kept for any length of time they should be kept 
in a cool, dark place. Green, starchy vegetables must be 
cooked in boiling water with a little salt. Salt not only sea- 
sons, but helps to preserve the color. Time for cooking de- 
pends on age and freshness of vegetables. 

In studying the serving of vegetables we should use 
them with meats that harmonize. Usually two vegetables 
are served with a course. 

IRISH POTATOES— BOILED. 

Wash them well. New ones are best scraped. Peel old 
ones. Put in cold water to prevent discoloring. If wilted 
let stand in ice water for an hour. Cook in boiling, salted 
w-ater from twenty to thirty minutes. Pour off water. 
Sprinkle with a little salt to help absorb the moisture. Let 
stand on back of range with just enough opening in vessel 
for steam to escape. Serve with butter, pepper and salt or 
with a cream sauce. 

IRISH POTATOES— MASHED. 

Cook as above. Run through ricer. Season with but- 
ter, a little cream and beat very light and white. Serve this 
way or put in pan. Shape into a cone, make a little nest in 
top and put lump of butter in it. Smooth potatoes over 
this. Set in stove and bake light brown. Pretty served on 
platter after being put through ricer and garnished with 
a few egg yolks boiled and run through ricer also. 

POTATO SURPRISE. 

1 pt. mashed potatoes 14 teaspoon celery, 

(use while hot). 1/4 teaspoon pepper. 
1 tablespoon butter. Dash cayenne. 

1 teaspoon salt. Vi> teaspoon grated onion. 

Let cool slightly. Add one yolk. Shape in balls. Fill 
center with peas or sweetbreads, seasoned (any cold meat 
will answer). Shape as croquettes or potatoes and fry in 
deep fat. 

81 

(6) 



FRIED POTATOES. 

There are various ways of preparing potatoes for fry- 
ing or sauteing. Cold, boiled potatoes made into cakes can 
be dipped in flour and sauted in butter. Parboil potato balls. 
Dip in hot fat and fry delicate brown. Cut potatoes in 
slices, cubes or latticed slices. Fry in deep fat. Drain on 
brown paper and serve at once. 

Use vegetable scoop for cutting small potato balls. Use 
the waste for creamed potatoes or run through ricer after 
cooking in salted water. Salad can be made of the pieces 
after they have been drained and cooled. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Cut potatoes in cubes. Cook as above. Drain and serve 
with cream sauce. One pint of sauce, one cup of cream 
cheese, two and one-half cups potato cubes. 

COLD POTATOES. 

Make white sauce. Pour over potatoes. Run in stove 
to heat. Serve with little chopped parsley over them. 
Cheese can be used the same as above. 

POTATOES IN THEIR JACKETS. 

Wash well and dry. Put in a hot oven and cook from 
fifty to sixty minutes. When soft break skin in one place 
and serve at once. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Cook as above. Cut off end carefully, keeping the hull 
from being broken. Scoop out potato. Season with but- 
ter, pepper and salt and a little grated onion. Fill hulls 
full. Run in oven in pan to season. Serve hot. Cheese 
may be used grated instead of onion, or both, if liked. 

BROILED POTATOES— COLD. 

Cut in slices or small pieces. Put tablespoon of butter 
in saucepan. When hot put in potatoes. Mix thoroughly 
with butter until fat is absorbed. Sprinkle with salt and 
serve at once. A little grated onion can be added to butter 
before putting in potatoes. 

82 



SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil sweet potatoes as you would Irish potatoes. Drain, 
mash, season with sugar and butter and a Httle cinnamon 
or any kind of spice you may hke. Put in pan. Run in 
stove to brown and serve. Sprinkle top with ground almonds 
and bits of butter. Stale cake crumbs ground and browned 
make them nice. 

Another Way to Make Sweet Potatoes Delicious. 

Prepare them as above with sugar and butter. Add one 
cup of old-fashioned walnuts, one-fourth cup of Sherry wine 
and put in baking dish. One cup of raisins may also be 
added. Serve in baking dish with meat course. Marsh- 
mallow on top makes a lovely meringue. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil or steam. Scrape, slice and put in pan with layers 
of butter, brown sugar and potatoes. Cook until candied 
in stove, or put in saucepan on top of stove and cook until 
thick syrup. 

Sweet potatoes can be wished, wiped and brushed with 
a little grease and baked in oven until mealy and soft. 

PUMPKIN. 

Cut in small pieces after peeling. Put on stove with 
just enough water to keep from sticking to vessel, as it 
contains so much moisture. Cook until tender and drain 
if there should be too much liquid. Season with butter and 
salt. Some fry in butter as you would squash. 

PARSNIPS. 

Wash, peel and boil until done. This requires about an 
hour. Cut lengthwise strips. Dip in butter, then in flour 
and saute on both sides until brown. They can be mashed 
as potatoes, mixed with an egg, seasoned and made into 
cakes, dipped in flour and sauted as above. 

S3- 



SQUASH. . 

Wash, peel and cut in pieces. Cook in salted water until 
tender. Drain. Season like okra, adding a little cream. 

Another way to cook squash : After boiling add season- 
ing and a little cream or milk and an onion, chopped fine. 
Put butter in saucepan and fry until brown. 

Small squash are so pretty to serve creamed squash in. 
Hull out center without peeling them. Cook the pieces as 
above and let the hulls steam until tender, but not long 
enough to spoil the shape. Season with cream, butter, pep- 
per and salt and a little grated onion. Fill cavities. Run 
in stove and let season. Can be served on individual plates 
or as an entree. 

SALSIFY. 

Wash, peel or scrape. Let stand in cold water for awhile. 
Cut in inch pieces. Boil in salted water, changing several 
times. When tender serve in cream sauce. 

GREEN CORN. 

Pick over carefully and brush with a little whiskbroom. 
Drop in boiling water (salted) and cook twenty to thirty 
minutes. Serve hot with butter. Can be cut from cob, put 
in vessel over hot water, seasoned and served hot. 

STEWED CORN. 

3 cups corn. 1 cup water. 

1 cup rich milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Cut corn from cob. Scrape out pulp. Put in stew pan 
with water. Cover and cook until tender, which requires 
about twenty minutes. Add butter and cream before taking 
from fire; also pepper and salt. 

CORN PUDDING. 

2 cups com. 2 cups milk. 

2 eggs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 teaspoon salt. A little sugar. 

Grate corn from ear. Add eggs, melted butter, salt and 
sugar. Put in baking dish and cook until it thickens and 
browns. 

84 



CORN DROP CAKES. 

2 cups grated corn. i scant teaspoon baking 

2 eggs or 4 yolks, beaten. powder. 

1/4 cup flour. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Season with salt. 
Beat eggs. Add corn. Sift bakin- powder with flour 
and fold into the mixture. Add butter and drop by spoon- 
fuls into hot fat and brown. 

FRIED CORN. 
3 cups corn. 1 tablespoon fat or butter. 

Cut corn and scrape the pulp. Put drippings in spider. 
When hot add corn. Stir well and cook twenty minutes. 
Season with salt and pepper and serve in baking dish while 
warm. A little sugar added to corn helps the taste. 

ONION. 

Peel off outside skin. Cook in boihng, salted water until 
tender. Can be sen-ed whole seasoned with melted butter or 
cream sauce. If large, cut small pieces after boiled and 
serve with white sauce. 

SPANISH ONIONS— STUFFED. 

6 medium Spanish onions. 1 cup water. 

1 cup minced or ground 1 heaping tablespoon butter 

cold meat. Pepper and salt to taste. 
1/2 cup bread crumbs. 

Parboil onions until tender or cut out the center before 
cooking. Chop the pieces. Add a few bread crumbs, some 
mmced ham, chicken or veal, or both. Season highly with 
salt and pepper. Moisten with melted butter. Fill cavities 
of onion, put in baking dish, pour over this a little water or 
cream. Put in stove and bake until tender and brown, after 
sprinkling top with bread crumbs. 

BROILED ONION. 

Slice one large Spanish onion, sprinkle with salt. Saute 
in melted butter until brown on each side. Serve on rounds 
of buttered toast. 

85 



CABBAGE. 

Cut cabbage in quarters. Pull open the leaves. Let 
stand in cold salted water thirty minutes. To one head of 
cabbage allow one-half pound of salt pork or bacon. Put 
meat in kettle of cold water, when boiling put in cabbage 
cut from the stalk. Cook in uncovered vessel for one-half 
hour. When done drain, season with salt and cayenne pep- 
per, pile on platter, put meat in center and serve. 

CABBAGE NO. 2 (CREAMED). 
Cut fine, let stand in water awhile, put into vessel of 
boiling water with salt. Cook ten minutes. Drain, add 
enough boiling water to cover and cook ten minutes more. 
Drain. Have ready white sauce, put into cabbage, season 
and serve hot. Can put in baking dish covered with but- 
tered bread crumbs and run into oven and brown. 

COLD SLAW. 
Shave cabbage, stand in ice water to make crisp. Drain, 
add cooked salad dressing and serve with vegetables. Hard 
boiled eggs garnish this nicely and add to the taste. Onion 
and celery may be added. 

GREENS. 
Mustard, kale and turnip greens are cooked the same 
way as spinach. It is necessary to pick and wash each leaf 
carefully. The old-fashioned way of cooking turnip greens 
seems the most popular, and some think it quite a treat to 
be able to enjoy the hog jowl and greens. Have meat boil- 
ing in water some time before adding greens. Cook until 
tender. Serve on platter with meat in center and poached 
eggs around border of dish. 

GREEN STRING BEANS. 

Old-fashion way to cook string beans, break into pieces. 
Let stand in cold water for a while. Put one half pound 
fat pork into a pint of cold water and cook for half an hour. 
Then add three pints of beans. Cook for one and half hours. 
If water should boil out add a little more warm water. Sea- 
son and serve on platter with pork sliced. 

86 



SPINACH. 

Pick, wash spinach, put in boiling water and cook until 
tender. Drain, season with salt, butter and pepper. Put in 
warm platter. Serve with hard boiled eggs cut in rounds 
and laid around spinach. Poached eggs are also nice with 
this vegetable. 

EGG PLANT. 

Boil until tender, cut in half, scoop out center. Mash 
pulp, season with salt, pepper and a little butter, a few 
drops cream. Fill shell, sprinkle top with bread crumbs and 
a small piece of butter and brown in oven. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Remove skins, cut in thin slices and let stand in salt 
water for one-half hour. Dip in egg and fry in fat. 

CUCUMBER. 

Cucumbers are bitter near the skin. Peel thick and slice 
thin. Let stand in cold, or ice water without salt, as salt 
toughens them. Drain and serve on crushed ice. An onion 
sliced added to the cold water while standing improves the 
taste of the cucumber. They are often served together at 
table. 

FRIED CUCUMBER. 

Prepare as above, slice, drain and dip in salted meal 
with pepper added. Fry in butter a delicate brown. A lit- 
tle minced onion added to butter before cucumbers are put 
in improves flavor. Turn with spatula. Serve on toasted 
crackers or small rounds of bread sauted in butter. 

TURNIPS. 

Cook like carrots. After boiling in salt water ten min- 
utes drain, and pour fresh boiling water over them. Cook 
until tender, season and serve with white sauce. 

Cook turnips as above, when second water has been 
added season with fresh pieces of pork, a little sugar to 
soften the strong taste, cayenne and a little salt. Serve hot 
with com bread sticks. 

87 



STUFFED TURNIPS. 

6 turnips, even in size. 2 teaspoons milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. l/^ teaspoon chopped onion. 

2 slices bacon. 1/2 cup fresh crumbs. 

Salt and pepper to taste. Boil turnips until tender, and 
cut off tops and scoop out center. Chop fine with bacon, 
onion, bread crumbs and milk and fry in butter. Put in 
turnip shells, sprinkle with crumbs, piece of butter on each 
and bake ten minutes. 

Nice way to cut turnips as a rose, steam until ten- 
der, color any shade. Serve creamed turnips in same. A 
perfect calla lily can be made of a thin slice of turnip pinned 
together at one side with carrot center, using parsley for 
stem. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Take off outside leaves, cover with cold water and let 
stand half hour. Drain, cook in boiling water in uncovered 
vessel until tender. Pour a well seasoned creamed dressing 
over it. Do not season until done. It is often cooked in 
cheese-cloth bag to keep it white. 

BEETS. 

Wash well, cook without peeling. It requires one hour 
for cooking beets. Drain and rub off skins. Slice, serve 
with vinegar, pepper and salt. Some prefer them with su- 
gar and butter. 

OKRA. 

Cook whole if pods are not too large. Cut in smaller 
pieces if large. Cook in boiling water (salted), for thirty 
minutes. Drain, season with pepper, salt and drawn butter. 
A little vinegar improves taste. 

Okra can be dipped in batter and fried like oysters. It 
tastes very much like them. 

TOMATOES. 

There are a great many ways of preparing and serving 
tomatoes. The simplest way is to serve them chilled, peeled 
and sliced. Season with salt, pepper and vinegar, or sugar. 
They can be cut in halves or in sections to look like a pond 
lily and served with salad dressing. Pretty on lettuce leaf. 

88 



BROILED TOMATOES FOR BREAKFAST (GREEN). 

Wash, wipe and cut in inch slices. Dip in meal that has 
been salted and pepper added. Melt some butter in spider, 
when hot put in slices of tomato. When brown turn and 
brown other side. Serve on very thin slices of toast. Nice 
with poached egg on each slice. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

1 can stewed tomatoes. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 
V2 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

If fresh tomatoes, peel, cut into pieces, add sugar, a lit- 
tle salt, and the vinegar. Cook until tender and thick. Add 
butter and serve with dinner. 

BAKED TOMATOES NO. 1. 

Select tomatoes near same size. Allow one tomato for 
each person. Wash, wipe and cut off top, scoop out center 
and fill the cavity with the tomato cut fine, seasoned highly 
with salt, pepper, onion, bread crumbs and a little chopped 
celery. Cold meat ground can be used with this mixture. 
Put tomatoes in pan with a little butter on each. Run in 
oven and bake twenty minutes. 

BAKED TOMATOES NO. 2. 

6 tomatoes, as near one 6 mushrooms* 

size as possible. 1 tablespoon chopped pars- 

1 heaping tablespoon bread ley. 

crumbs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 tablespoon grated cheese. Pepper and salt. 

Cut the tomatoes in halves if large enough. Scrape out 
some of pulp and add to the mixture. When mixed fill to- 
matoes, place in buttered tin, season highly and bake in mod- 
erate oven twenty minutes. 

BAKED TOMATOES NO. 3. 

4 large tomatoes. 2 tablespoons butter. 

1/2 cup brown sugar. 1 tablespoon water. 

Scald tomatoes and peel. Put in baking pan, add sugar, 
butter and water and bake until done. 

89 



ASPARAGUS. 

Wash, scrape and let stand in cold water. Tie several 
stalks together and cook standing with bloom end up. It is 
more tender and takes less time to cook. Serve on toast 
with cream sauce poured over it. 

Canned asparagus needs only heating and is served in 
same way. Asparagus tips are pretty in bread cups with 
cheese sauce. Garnish with crisp parsley. 

BUTTER BEANS. 
Shell and let stand in cold water for a while. Cover 
with boiling salted water. Cook one hour. Serve with cream 
sauce or drawn butter. Can be pressed through potato ricer ; 
add a little cream, butter, pepper and salt. Put in pan, 
sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs and run in stove to 
season. 

GREEN PEAS. 

. Shell, cover with boiling water and cook thirty minutes 
in an uncovered vessel. Drain, season and serve hot. A 
litle sugar is sometimes an improvement. White sauce can 
be used with peas. 

CARROTS. 

Cut in squares or bars, boil in salted water. Drain well, 
season with salt and pepper and serve with drawn butter or 
cream sauce. 

SURPRISE BALLS. 

Take cold mashed potatoes, form into balls size of an 
egg, with spoon make cavity in each end large enough to 
put an oyster. Dip in beaten egg, roll in crumbs and fry 
in deep fat. Cold minced meat may be substituted for oys- 
ter. Serve with tartar sauce. 

STUFFED PIMENTOS. 

1 cup cold potatoes. A little bacon, bread crumbs, 

1 tablespoon hominy. onion juice, and Worcester- 

shire sauce. 

Mix all together and stuff pimentos. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 
Scallop as you do oysters, only add pimentos and grated 
cheese on top. 

90 



DRIED LIMA BEANS. 

Soak for several hours one pint of lima beans. Put in 
boiling water, let come to boil quickly, and simmer until 
done. Season with salt and butter. 

Black eyed peas are cooked the same way. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Three and one-half cups of beans soaked over night. 
Parboil about ten minutes. Take from pot and add three- 
fourths pounds of salt pork, two tablespoons of black mo- 
lasses, and one teaspoon salt. Put in bean pot, cover with 
water in which beans have been cooked. Bake in slow oven 
for several hours, adding v.-ater when necessary. When 
done, remove cover and brown. 

MOLDED MACARONI. 

1 ten cent box macaroni. 1/2 cup cheese. 

1 cup of soft bread crumbs. 3 eggs. 

1 cup milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

2 pimentoes or green pep- 2 tablespoons chopped nuts. 

pers. 1 medium size onion. 

2 tablespoons chopped pars- 
ley seasoned to taste. 

Heat milk and add bread crumbs and butter. When 
slightly cooled add eggs well beaten and follow with other 
ingredients. Fill a one pound baking powder can with mix- 
ture and steam one hour. Can must be greased before mix- 
ture is put in. To steam place can in vessel of water so 
the water can circulate under can as well as around sides. 
Vessel in which can is placed must be closed. Remove from 
can, slice and serve with tomato sauce. 

ASPARAGUS cheese; 

1 can asparagus tips. 1 cup yellow cheese. 

1 cup blanched almonds. 

Make a thick white sauce, using asparagus juice with one 
cup sweet milk, one tablespoon each of flour and butter, add 
to this the cheese. Cut asparagus in three pieces. Put in 
baking pan. cover with cheese sauce with almonds cut in two 
or three strips added. Sprinkle top with soft bread crumbs 
and bits of butter run in over to season and brown. De- 
licious. 

91 



COMBINATION VEGETABLES, MEAT AND EGGS. 



GREEN PEAS AND ASPARAGUS TIPS. 

2 cups green peas, 1/2 teaspoon minced parsley. 

1 cup asparagus tips. Salt and pepper. 

1 cup cream sauce. 

Boil peas and asparagus until tender, and serve with 
cream sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

MACARONI AND SAUSAGE. 

Cook macaroni with cheese as directed. V/hen almost 
ready to be taken from stove have some sausage balls of 
good country sausage made about size of marbles. Fry 
brown and put on top of macaroni. Let stand in stove to 
season and serve in baking dish garnished with parsley. 

DEVILED EGGS WITH TOMATOES. 

6 eggs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1/2 teaspoon grated onion. 1 teaspoon corn starch. 
1 pt. tomatoes. 

Cook tomatoes with onion, salt and pepper for a few 
minutes. Add butter and corn starch, cook five minutes 
longer. Beat eggs lightly, stir in tomatoes and serve on 
toast. 

STARCHED EGGS WITH FISH CUTLETS. 

6 hard-boiled eggs. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup rich milk. 1 tablespoon minced parsley. 

2 tablespoons butter. Dash of cayenne. 
1 tablespoon flour. 

Slice egg in half lengthwise. Make sauce of milk, flour, 
butter, salt and pepper. Pour over eggs and sprinkle vv^th 
parsley. Serve with fish cutlets. 

GREEN CORN WITH GREEN PEPPERS, TOMATOES 
AND ONIONS. 

6 ears corn; cut off half 3 tomatoes, peeled and cut 

and scrape. fine. 

1/2 green pepper. 1 teaspoon chopped onion. 

Cook slowly for twenty minutes, or until reduced; sea- 
son, salt and pepper ; add one tablespoonf ul butter when tak- 
ing from fire. 

92 



TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CHICKEN LIVERS. 

6 tomatoes. 1 pinch nutmeg. 

6 chicken livers. 1 cup fresh bread crumbs. 

1/2 tablespoon butter. 14 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon olive oil. l/i teaspoon cayenne pepper. 

1/2 teaspoon minced parsley. 14 grated onion. 

Cut off the top of tomatoes, remove the inside with a 
spoon and chop up bread and livers (after being boiled). 
Then add salt, pepper, onion, parsley, butter and nutmeg. 
Fry in oil, put back in tomato shells, dust with bread crumbs 
and bake ten minutes. 

RICE SERVED IN TOMATO SAUCE. 
After rice has been cooked and cooled it can be made 
into pretty border molds to serve meats in or any creamed 
vegetable. 

It can be colored any shade with fruit paste. Green rice 
beds are pretty for broiled chicken or croquettes. 

EGG PLANT AND GREEN PEPPERS. 
Peel, cut in cubes and parboil egg plant twenty minutes. 
Drain, put in baking dish with alternate layers of well but- 
tered bread crumbs and finely minced green peppers. When 
the pan is full pour over this one-half cup white sauce sea- 
soned highly. Cover top with crumbs and bits of butter. 
Run in stove to bake covered. Take off top and let brown 
before sending to table. 

SUCCOTASH. 

1 pt. butterbeans. 1 tablespoon butter. 

V2 cup cream. Salt and pepper to taste. 

4 ears corn. 

Boil beans and corn until tender ; cut com from ear and 
mix with beans ; stir in cream, salt, pepper and butter. 

MIXED HASH. 

1 pt. hashed turkey, chick- 1 tablespoon browned flour. 

en or beef. i/^ pt. stock. 

3 small potatoes. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Heat butter, add flour and stock. When it starts to 
cook, add potatoes. Cook until potatoes are done. Put in 
chopped meat and serve on toast. 

93 



BEEF HASH WITH SPAGHETTI. 

1 lb. spaghetti. 14 lb. cheese. 

1/2 cup milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Make beef hash. When spaghetti has cooked wash and 
drain. Put in layers in baking pan with cheese and butter 
and a thick layer of hash between. Pour milk over this and 
bake until brown. 

GREEN CORN AND GREEN PEPPERS. 

Four ears corn boiled in salt water twenty minutes. Cut 
corn from cob. Cut peppers in halves, take out lining and 
seeds. Drop in boiling water while corn is cooking. When 
corn has been cut, season with butter, pepper and salt and 
set over hot water on stove. When peppers are tender 
remove from fire, cut in small pieces and mix wAth corn. 
Let stand until blended. Can be served in pepper cups or 
poured in baking dish. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

6 green peppers. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

2 cups minced cold meat, 1 cup stock or water. 

chicken or veal. Salt and pepper. 

1 cup bread crumbs. 1 cup tomato sauce. 

1 small onion. Ham, ground. 

Cut tops from peppers. With scissors cut out lining 
and seeds. Stand in cold water one-half hour. Drain, fill 
with any cold meat minced fine, a little onion, butter, pep- 
per and salt and a few bread crumbs. Put in baking dish 
with cup of stock or water and bake one-half hour or more. 
Serve hot with tomato sauce. 

CABBAGE AND SAUSAGE (CREAM SAUCE), 

1/^ head white cabbage. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1/^ lb. sausage. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 pt. milk. 1 small cup bread crumbs. 

V2 pod red pepper. 

Cut cabbage fine, let stand in cold water one-half hour. 
Put in boiling water and drain after boiling fifteen min- 
utes. Add more water and cook ten minutes. Drain, add 
rounds of sausage fried. Put in baking dish and bake un- 
til seasoned. It may be served in the outer leaves of whole 
cabbage after being steamed. 

94 



EGGS AND BACON WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

6 slices bacon. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup milk. V:i teaspoon flour. 

6 hard boiled eggs. Dash cayenne. 

Make sauce with butter, milk and flour. Cook bacon 
crisp, cut eggs in half. Pour sauce over just before serving. 

CAULIFLOWER AND CHEESE. 

1 cauliflower. 1 cup cream sauce. 

1/2 lb. grated cheese. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1/^ teaspoon red pepper. 

Boil cauliflower; when cold cut in pieces. Put in dish 
alternately with cheese and pepper. Pour over this cream 
sauce, add buttered bread crumbs and bake ten minutes. 

CAULIFLOWER AND MUSHROOMS SERVED IN 
GREEN PEPPERS. 

1 head cauliflower. 1 cup cream sauce. 

1 can mushrooms. 8 green peppers. 

Cook cauliflower as directed above. Saute mushrooms 
in butter. Have cup cream sauce ready. Cut cauliflower 
into small pieces, add mushrooms and sauce. Fill green 
peppers, after having put them in hot water for ten min- 
utes. Put in pan and run into oven to season. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH CHEESE. 
After cauliflower has been drained and cut into small 
pieces put layer into dish ; cover with cream sauce, sprinkle 
with cheese, another layer of cauliflower and sauce and 
cheese. Sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs and put in 
oven to brown. 

TOMATOES AND MUSHROOMS. 

6 tomatoes. 1 onion. 

1 can mushrooms. 1 cup bread crumbs. 

1 cup tomato sauce. 

One can mushrooms sauted in butter. Wash and peel 
six tomatoes ; slice and put layer in baking dish, with alter- 
nate layer of mushrooms. When dish is filled cover with to- 
mato sauce highly seasoned with onion. Cover top with 
buttered bread crumbs and bake brown. 

95 



FRUITS. 



COOKING FRESH FRUIT. 

Pears, apples, peaches, and apricots are cooked in the 
same way. 

TO STEW APPLES. 

Pare, core and cut in halves. Put in sauce pan with 
small quantity of water. Cover and cook until tender, add 
sugar and stir in lightly so as not to break the pieces of 
fruit. More water is necessary for some apples than others. 
When this is the case pour off some before adding sugar. 
If desired slices of lemon can be put with apples. Cinna- 
mon gives them a good flavor. Cook pears and peaches in 
same way. 

TO BAKE FRUIT. 

If fresh fruit is used stew until tender. Put in baking 
dish with enough liquid to season, add sugar and any flavor 
desired, and cook until done. Meringue can be put on this, 
making it good and pretty also. Fruit may be baked in 
custard made from yolks left from meringue. This is de- 
licious. 

PRETTY APPLES. 

Pare and core nice sized apples. Make sirup, using two 
cups sugar and one cup of water. When sirup gets a little 
thick put in apples. Watch carefully, turning with fork 
until tender through. Take from fire, place on platter, when 
cool stick blanched almonds around them and fill cavity with 
cherries and nuts. Cook syrup until it jellies and pour over 
apples. 

Another way — Pare and core, put in hot syrup with 
three tablespoons maple syrup, and after filling the cavity 
with bananas, turn carefully until tender. Remove from 
fire and put one marshmallow on each apple. Run in oven 
to brown marshmallow. Delicious served with meats. 

Apples cooked in syrup and delicately flavored with mint 
extract are lovely to serve with meat — color green. 

96 



PEACHES AND PEARS. 

To use canned fruit, place in syrup after it is ready in 
baking dish, fill cavities with pecans, place marshmallow 
on each piece of fruit and run into stove to season. Serve 
with meat course. Can be used with whipped cream for 
dessert. 

BAKED APPLES STUFFED WITH DATES. 

Steamed or baked apples stuffed with orange and pine- 
apple. 

CINNAMON APPLES. 

6 medium apples, peeled 2 bananas. 

and cored. 1 cup water. 

2 cups sugar. V2 cup candy cinnamon drops. 

Make Syrup — When boiling put in apples stuffed with 
bananas two or three drops — then put into syrup, sprinkle 
rest of candy over apples. This makes a lovely pink color 
and gives a delightful flavor. 

Put in crystal dish and serve cold with meat course. 

Ginger may be used instead of bananas. 

SNOW BALL APPLES. 

Pare and core 5 medium- i/^ cup confectioners' sugar, 
sized apples, bake in sauce 10c worth of marshmallows. 
made by cooking. 1/2 cup boiling water until 

smooth. 

Pour over apples and bake until done. When taken from 
stove, roll in shredded cocoanut and serve cold. 

TO STEW CRANBERRIES. 

Wash one quart of cranberries, add half pint of boiling 
water, cover closely, cook six minutes, stir with wooden 
spoon, press through colander, add one pint sugar; simmer 
ten minutes. Serve hot or cold. When cold it will jell. 

PIE PLANT. 

Wash and scrape, cut in inch pieces, cover with water 
and heat to boiling point. Drain off water, add half as 
much sugar as fruit and cook six or eight minutes. Stew 
gooseberries same way. They require a little more cooking 
than pie plant. 

97 

(7) 



APPLE SNOW. 

3 large tart apples. 3 egg whites. 

1/^ cup powdered sugar. 

Stew apples quartered, and when tender strain and mash 
through sieve. Whip eggs dry and stiff, beat in sugar and 
then the apples. Pile on crystal dish, garnish with apple 
jelly and serve with one pint of boiled custard made from 
yolks. 

This can be served with orange or any other flavor and 
garnished with the fruit. 

Apples peeled, cored and filled with preserved ginger, 
orange marmalade, pineapple or cherries, put in baking 
dish with syrup and baked make a lovely dish to serve with 
meats. 

DRIED FRUIT. 

All dried fruit should be washed well in warm water. 
Soak in cold water until plump in appearance. Some dried 
fruit should be left in water overnight and cooked in water 
in which they are soaked until tender. Sweeten to taste 
and simmer five minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

Prunes should be soaked several hours before cooking. 
Cook dried plums, peaches, apples and apricots same way. 

Pineapple, pears and apples make a nice compote of fruit 
cooked in syrup and served in baking dish. 

PINEAPPLE AND SWEET POTATOES. 

1 can pineapples. 4 sweet potatoes. 

Drain pineapple, cut in small pieces, cook potatoes and 
cut in pieces. Cook juice of pineapple /with one tablespoon 
of butter and one tablespoon of flour until thick, adding 
one-half cup sugar, mix fruit and potatoes in baking dish 
and pour over this the syrup. Run in stove to season and 
brown. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING. 

2 cups bread crumbs. 4 cups of sweet milk (evap- 
2-3 cups cocoa. orated). 

2 eggs beaten together. 2-3 cups sugar. 

Bake one-half hour in moderate oven. Serve with whip- 
ped cream. 

98 




MAKING FLOWER PETALS. 



CAKEMAKING. 



In making cake, there are a few important facts to con- 
sider. 

The success depends upon materials used. Always select 
fresh eggs and butter, the best and purest of baking pow- 
der, and a good grade of granulated sugar. Always sift if 
sugar is coarse. If the recipe calls for sweet milk, have it 
fresh ; if sour, have thick, good milk. Use the best grade 
of winter wheat flour. Have everything clean and in readi- 
ness when you begin to mix the cake. If in winter, have 
butter warm, but not melted, and keep the temperature of 
the cake the same. Do not let it get chilled or the butter 
mixture will separate. In summer, I find it an excellent 
idea to use a litle crushed ice to put the bowl in after the 
sugar and butter are well blended. I will give directions 
here for mixing the different, kinds of cake, and this is fol- 
lowed in all the recipes. 

If it is your desire to have cakes that are proof of your 
skill, or even if your ambition is just to serve simple pala- 
table cakes, you must learn one lesson at the outset — no 
part of it can be carelessly done. Measuring, mixing, bak- 
ing, all must have attention — correct, intelligent care is 
necessary — you should know what you are doing and why, 
if you want to be certain of success. Don't think I consider 
cakemaking a formidable undertaking. I do not, but I cer- 
tainly do consider it worth doing well and know from many 
years' experience how small things can ruin big ones. Out 
of this experience I want to give you a hint or two that I 
feel sure will help your future cake baking to success. 

The thing I want to stress first is measuring ingredients. 
Measure everything. If you use a marked measure do so 
carefully. If you use a cup or glass for your measuring, 
be very sure to employ the same size vessel for each in- 
gredient. Two cups are necessary — one for liquids and one 
for dry materials. 

Butter should be cold — cut it in small pieces and fill the 
measuring cup full, but do not pack. Flour is sifted, then 
put into cup with spoon. Fill cup to overflowing, then scrape 

99 



off even. Sugar is measured in the same manner. If milk 
is needed, you cannot, of course, heap up or level down, but 
you can, and many of you do, underfill the cup. If the 
recipe calls for a certain amount of milk, use exactly that 
— no more and no less ; a cupful is a cup filled full. 

Powdered material, cinnamon, baking powder, etc., is 
measured by spoonfuls when making things in quantities. 
Your recipe should tell you, and all good ones do, whether 
a level, heaping or rounded spoonful is needed. A heaping 
spoon means piling up, every particle the size spoon called 
for will hold. A rounded spoon must be piled full, then 
shaken gently until the powder is just rounded over the 
spoon. A level spoon is piled up and then smoothed off 
even. 

About Eggs. — Either measure or weigh eggs if you wish 
to always get the same results. See table of weights and 
measures on pages 9 and 10. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING WHITE CAKE. 

First get pans ready. Cut white or light brown paper 
to fit bottom of pan to be used, brush with melted butter 
on bottom and sides; keep brush for this purpose. Sift 
flour, measure and sift four or five times with baking pow- 
der. Beat eggs stiff; cream butter; add sugar, and work 
very light; add alternately the milk, little at a time; the 
flour and whites; then the flavoring. Bake in layers or 
loaves, or large sheets. Turn out on linen cloth on firm 
foundation, remove pan and paper, leave to cool. 

WHITE CAKE NO. 1. 

2 whites. V4> cup butter. 

% cups sugar. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

11/2 cups flour. 1/2 cup milk. 

Flavor with vanilla and lemon. 

WHITE CAKE NO. 2. 

3 whites. 2 cups flour. 

14 cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

11/2 cups sugar. 2-3 cup milk. 

Flavor with orange and lemon. 

100 



WHITE CAKE NO. 3. 

Whites 4 eggs. 14 cup butter. 

1 cup sugar. 21/2 cups flour. 

14 cup milk. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Flavor with orange, vanilla and lemon. 

NEVER FALL WHITE CAKE NO. 4. 

5 whites of eggs well beat. 2 cups of sugar. 
14 cup butter. 3 cups of flour. 

1 cup milk. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

If you wish a nut cake, add one pound raisins and meat 
of one pound. English walnuts mixed and dredged with part 
of the flour. Bake in two layers and when cold pour over 
them the milk of one cocoanut. Grate the cocoanut and 
put the cake together with that and the white icing. The 
yolks of the eggs with the same measure of ingredients can 
be used for a good yellow cake. 

DAISY WHITE CAKE NO. 5. 

6 whites. 1%. cups sugar. 

31/4 cups flour. %, cup butter. 

1 cup sweet milk. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Vanilla and orange flavor. Bake in two layers. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

Make six-egg white cake. Flavor with rosewater and ice 
with white icing. Put the following in filling: 
1 cup raisins cut in pieces. V2 cup figs, if liked. 
1 cup pecans or walnuts, 
cut. 

Mix with icing and put between cake. Ice plain and put 
fruit on top of cake. The same kind, only use raisins whole, 
nuts in half and figs in strips. 

GEORGE WASHINGTON CHERRY CAKE. 

% cups butter. 3 cups flour. 

134 cups sugar. 1 cup milk. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 3 level teaspoons baking pow- 
6 eggs, whites. der. 

Add one cup cherries cut in two or three pieces. Bake 
in loaf pan. 

101 



HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 1 cup sweet milk. 

7 egg whites. 3 level teaspoons baking pow- 
3 cups flour. der. 

2 cups sugar. 

One cup hickory nuts cut and dropped in after cake has 
been put in pan. Flavor with vanilla and orange. 

WHITE CAKE NO. 5. 

8 whites. 4 cups flour, 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 
1 cup butter. 1 cup sweet milk. 

3 teaspoons baking pow- 

der. 

Add nuts or cherries to batter if liked. Bake in two 
jelly tins, 

MY FAVORITE CAKE. 

12 whites. 1 lb. sugar. 

1/^ lb. butter. 5 level teaspoons baking pow- 

1 cup milk. der. 

1 lb. flour. Lemon, orange and vanilla. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING YELLOW CAKE. 

First sift and measure flour and then sift as in white 
cake with baking powder. Beat yolks very, very light ; add 
half of sugar and beat again. Cream butter with the rest 
of the sugar, and then add to this the yolks. Then the milk 
and then the flour, flavoring last. Bake as you would white 
cake layer or loaf. Yellow cakes require a little more heat 
than white cakes. 

ORANGE CAKE. 



3 egg yolks. 


4 level teaspoons baking pow- 


2 whites eggs. 


der. 


2 cups sugar. 


1 orange juice and grated 


34 cup cold water. 


rind. 


31/2 cups flour. 





102 



GOLDEN CAKE. 



1/2 lb. butter. 


1 lb. flour. 


1 lb. sugar. 


2 round or 4 level teaspoons 


Yolks 12 or 14 eggs 


baking powder. 


beaten light. 


1 teaspoon orange. 


114 cups sweet milk. 


1 teaspon vanilla. 



Bake in layers or one sheet and put together with orange 
icing. 

YELLOW CAKE. 

8 yolks. 1 cup sweet milk. 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 
%. cup butter. 3 teaspons baking powder. 

3 cups flour. Orange flavor. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING POUND CAKES. 

Measure and sift as for other cakes. Beat yolks with 
half the sugar ; beat whites very stiff" ; add yolks to creamed 
butter mixed with half of sugar; then milk, flour and 
whites. Blend well and flavor with vanilla. 

CHEAP CAKE FOR SAUCE. 

2 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

1/2 cup butter. • 1/2 cup milk. 

21/2 cups flour. Orange flavor. 

2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der. 

OLD-FASHIONED POUND CAKE. 

9 large eggs. % lb. butter. 

1 lb. flour (41/2 cups). Flavor with vanilla. 

2 cups sugar. 

ONE-EGG CAKE. 

1/4 cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

1/2 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon vanilla or lemon. 
1/) cup milk. 

MAPLE LAYER CAKE. 

1-3 cake chocolate. 1 teaspoon soda. 

2 cups maple sugar. 2 eggs. 

1/2 cup butter. 1 cup buttermilk. 

21/2 cups flour. 

Melt chocolate over hot water. Dissolve soda in butter- 
milk; cream butter and sugar; add eggs, milk and flour; 
mix well ; fold in njielted chocolate last. Bake in two layers. 

103 



MAPLE FILLING. 

11/2 cups maple sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1/2 cup sweet milk. 

Boil until it spins thread. Take from fire, beat until 
cold. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Melt chocolate in double boiler. Measure and sift flour 
as many times as you would for white and yellow cakes. 
Mix beaten yolks with sugar to butter creamed with sugar. 
After adding flour and whites flavor and add chocolate last. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

3 eggs beaten separately. 3 level teaspoons baking 
31/2 cups flour. powder. 

134 cups sugar. i/^ lb. cholcolate melted over 

1 cup sweet milk. hot water with 

1 scant cup butter. 1 tablespoonful of vanilla. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR MAKING CHOCOLATE 
CREAM CAKE. 

In measuring butter by cups, cut the butter in little par- 
ticles while cold and fill the measuring cup with the par- 
ticles. Cream the butter and add to it one cupful of the 
sugar. Beat the yolks very, very light and add to them the 
remainder of the sugar. Now mix these two combina- 
tions of ingredients. To this mixture add the flour and 
the beaten whites of eggs, in alternation, as given in the 
general directions, blending in the chocolate and flavoring 
last. 

FILLING FOR CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sweet 1 teaspoon butter. 

cream. 1 tablespoon each of cocoa and 

1 cup XXXX sugar. vanilla. 

Mix thoroughly, put over a vessel of hot water and stir 
to a smooth cream. Let cool a little before spreading on 
cake, or it will run. 

104 



DEVIL'S FOOD OR CHOCOLATE. 

2 eggs beaten separately, i/j cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon soda dissolved 

31/2 cups flour. in milk. 

1 ' cup buttermilk. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

l^ cake chocolate. Flavor with vanilla. 

ONE-EGG CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 1 cup sweet milk. 

1 cup sugar. 3 tablespoons cocoa or 

1 egg. grated chocolate. 

2 level teaspoons cinna- 2 cups flour. 

mon. V2 teaspoon soda. 

1 level teaspoon each cloves 1 teaspon cream tartar. 

and allspice. Bake in sheet; cover with 

14 nutmeg grated. icing. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE WITH POTATOES. 

2-3 cup butter. 1/2 cup sweet milk. 

2 cups sugar. 2 cups flour. 

4 eggs (whole). 2 rounding spoons baking 

1 cup hot mashed potatoes. powder. 

2 squares melted chocolate. 

Add potatoes to butter, sugar and yolks creamed. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING FRUIT CAKES. 

Get fruit ready the day before, and pour over wine or 
grape juice. Have almonds blanched and ground and pour 
over a tablespoonful of rosewater. Measure spices, put in 
cordial, add to this jelly, but do not stir after jelly is added. 
Plave flour browned in oven, cooled and measured. 

Cream butter and half sugar and beat yolks light with 
the other half. Add these to butter, then put in cordial, 
jelly and spices; alternately add whites stiffly beaten and 
one-half of flour, then chocolate. Sift flour over top layer 
of fruit, add to batter, sift again and so on until all the 
fruit has been added. Put in nuts. 

First line your pans with two layers of heavy brown 
paper cut to fit. Take strips of paper the depth of pans 
and carefully line all sides. Brush paper with fresh melted 
butter. You may have a little trouble in fitting the side 
strips smoothly; if so, slash them just enough to get a per- 
fect fit. 

105 



The pans are now ready for batter, which, of course, 
should be all mixed. Put this in pans with spatula and 
smooth in place. When pan is full, decorate top with nuts 
and fruit. Place pan on steel or iron griddle and put in 
oven of gas stove. Fix the rack nearly four inches from 
bottom of stove and under the rack put a pan of hot water. 
As this water only serves to keep some moisture in the 
air inside the stove, it need only be a small vessel. Two 
small hot water pans may be used if you like. Turn the 
blaze very low and keep it so. 

If you haven't a gas stove, of course, use a range. Put 
cake pan on griddle and set on bottom of stove with small 
pan of hot water on the side. Or you can set the griddle 
in a pan containing a small amount of hot water. 

When the cake is in and the stove started, shut the door 
and do not disturb it for one hour. Your cake must stay 
for sixty minutes absolutely untouched so it can season. 
After this it may be turned occasionally. From two and 
one-half to four hours are required for perfect baking. This 
depends on size of cake. 

When you think the cake is done run a straw from top 
straight through to bottom. If particles of batter adhere, 
leave it a while longer, but watch carefully. When done, 
remove from stove and leave in pan until almost cold. Then 
while the cake is still slightly warm, run knife around edge 
to loosen thoroughly from pan and turn out. Two or more 
cakes can be baked at once, as they never burn if care is 
taken, and care surely must be taken; but if the instruc- 
tions I am giving you are followed, success will be yours. 
You will be repaid for your trouble by having a soft, deli- 
cious fruit cake that any housekeeper should be proud to 
offer guests and family as proof of her skill. 



FRUIT CAKE. 


2 lbs. seeded raisins. 


1 small bottle maraschino 


1/2 lb. citron. 


cherries and juice. 


14 lb. dates. 


1/2 lb. butter. 


1/2 cup plum jelly. 


% lb. flour, browned and 


1/2 cup strawberry pre- 


sifted with — 


serves. 


1 teaspoon baking powder. 


1/2 cup cherries. 


8 eggs. 




1 pound sugar. 



106 



PRESIDENT'S FRUIT CAKE. 

12 eggs. 1/2 teaspoon nutmeg. 

1 lb. sugar (2 cups). 1 lb. butter (2 cups). 

5 lbs. raisins. 1 lb. flour (41/2 cups). 

1 glass grape jelly. 1 lb. home-made citron. 

1 lb. crystallized cherries. 1 tablespoon of melted 

1 lb. crystallized pineapple. chocolate. 

14, lb. orange paste. V2 teaspoon allspice. 

1 lb. blanched and ground 1/2 cup cordial mixed with 
almonds. spices. 

1 lb. pecans. 1 cup grape juice. 

1 tablespoon cinnamon. I 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING SPICE CAKES. 
When whole eggs are used, mix as for pound cake ; when 
yolks only, mix as yellow cakes ; add spices to batter and 
then fruit if used. 



1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 
1/2 cup sour milk. 

3 eggs. 

1 teaspoon soda. 




1 cup blackberry jam. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 
14 teaspoon allspice. 
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg. 

4 cups flour. 


Bake in two layers. 


Ice 


with seafoam icing. 



STRAWBERRY JAM CAKE. 

3 eggs. 21/2 cups flour. 

% cup butter. 1 teaspoon soda. 

34 cup jam. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

1-3 cup buttermilk. 

Cream the butter and half of sugar. Color pink with 
color paste. Beat yolks light with the other half cup su- 
gar ; add to butter and sugar. Put soda in milk ; add with 
a little flour, and then the whites and rest of flour, then 
cinnamon. Lastly fold in the jam. Bake in layers or one 
sheet. Cover with white or green icing and mark in squares. 
Put a fresh strawberry on each square if in season. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

6 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup flour. Juice of V2 lemon. 

Beat yolks light, add juice of lemon and half the sugar. 
Beat whites with pinch of salt, when light add half of sugar. 
Mix whites and yolks then cut flour in lightly. Bake in 
either loaf or lavers in moderate oven. 



107 



ROOSEVELT SPICE CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 4 eggs. 

2 cups sugar. 4 cups flour. 

1 cup milk. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. V^ teaspoon nutmeg. 

Bake in loaf or two layers. 

IMPROVED LADY McMILLIN CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 2 rounded or 4 level tea- 

2 cups sugar. spoons baking powder. 

Whites and yolks 6 eggs 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 
or 12 yolks beaten very 1 tablespoon (heaping) co- 
light, coa. 
1 cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoon nutmeg. 
5 cups flour. 1 cup blackberry jam. 

1/2 cup cordial. 
Cream butter, add half sugar to butter ; beat very light. 
Beat yolks light with rest of sugar. Sift flour several times 
with baking powder, and add alternately with milk and 
whites. Mix spices and cocoa with cordial; add to batter; 
gently stir in jam last. 

SPICE CAKE. 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs beaten together. 

3 cups flour. 1 rounding teaspoon cinna- 
1 scant cup of molasses. mon. 

1 cup buttermilk. 1 scant teaspoon nutmeg. 

WAR CAKE. 

2 cups brown sugar. 2 cups hot water. 

2 tablespoons lard. 1 lb. raisins. 

1/2 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Boil all together five minutes after it bubbles. When 
cold add 31/2 cups sifted flour with 14 teaspoon baking pow- 
der. Add one level tablespoon soda dissolved in tablespoon 
hot water. Bake in two loaves. 

EGOLESS CAKE. 

2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon nutmeg. 

1/2 cup fat ; pinch salt. 1 lb. raisins seeded and cut. 

4 cups flour. 3 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups buttermilk. dissolved in 1 tablespoon 

2 teaspoons cinnamon. of boiling water. 

14 teaspoon allspice. 

Flavor with orange and vanilla blended. 

108 



CHEAP SPICE CAKE. 

5 whole eggs. 2 tablespoons cocoa. 

2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon nutmeg. 

4 cups flour. 1 cup of strawberry or 

4 level teaspoons baking blackberry jam. 

powder. %, cup of fat. 

1 cup sweet milk, 1/2 cup cordial. 
1 tablespoon cinnamon. 

Dissolve spices in cordial. Mix as any other cake, add- 
ing jam last. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING SPONGE CAKES. 
In making angel and sunshine cake, sift flour five times 
before measuring. Have bowl perfectly dry before beating 
whites. Have eggs cold and especially fresh for these 
cakes. Add pinch salt to whites. This toughens the fibre 
and helps retain the air, as the lightness of sponge cake 
depends mainly on the amount of air beaten into the eggs. 
Always fold in the flour; never beat after flour is added. 
When salt is added, beat whites until creamy. Add cream 
tartar and beat stiff; gently stir in the sugar, and then 
fold in flour. In sunshine, after the sugar has been added, 
put in yolks beaten light; then flour and flavoring. Bake 
these as you would layer cakes. I light my stove for all 
cakes when ready for oven if gas range is used. It requires 
from forty to forty-five minutes to bake the above cakes. 
When taken from oven must cool in pan inverted. There 
are pans sold especially for these delicate cakes for twenty- 
five cents. It pays to have them. Never grease them as 
you do pans for butter cakes. Some sponge cakes have 
baking powder. Then you would sift as for white cake. 
But always fold flour in last. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

12 eggs beaten slowly, but 1 cup flour after sifting sev- 

not too stiff and dry. eral times. 

11/2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon cream tartar. 

Pinch of salt. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Whites of 7 large or 8 1 teaspoon orange. 

small eggs, yolks of 5. 1 cup flour, measured after 
1 cup sifted sugar. sifting 3 times. 

1 scant teaspoon cream tar- 
tar. 

109 



FRUIT SPONGE CAKE. 

7 eggs. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

114 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon lemon and va- 

3 cups flour. nilla. 

14 teacup cold water. 
Bake in two layers. 

FILLING. 

1 minced orange. 1 can pineapple chopped fine. 

1 banana — sliced. 1/2 cup sugar. 

Juice 1/2 lemon. 

Ice on top with the following icing: Take syrup of 
pineapple, boil with sugar, allowing two cups to one of juice, 
break two eggs to each cup of sugar, beat whites stiff, when 
syrup cooks thick and threads, pour gradually over the 
eggs; cook over steam to the right consistency to ice cake. 
Delicious. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

5 eggs. 1 heaping teaspoon baking 

1 cup sugar. powder sifted with flour 

1 cup water. 5 times. 

11/2 cups flour. Flavor to taste. 

Cook sugar with water until it is a thick syrup. Let 
cool and pour over well beaten yolks of eggs. Fold in flour, 
then the beaten whites, and flavor. Bake quickly in layers 
or in a sheet. 

WAR TIME SPONGE CAKE. 

Yolks of 6 eggs. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 cup sugar. 1/2 cup boiling water. 

11/2 cups flour. 

Beat eggs and sugar very lightly together, add boiling 
water and then beat into the mixture the flour that has 
been sifted several times with the baking powder. Flavor 
with orange. 

CREAM FILLING FOR SPONGE CAKE. 

1 pint sweet milk, put on to V2 cup of sugar. 

boil. 1 heaping tablespoon of 

2 eggs. flour. 

Beat these last three well together. Just as the milk 
comes to a boil stir in one tablespoonful of butter and then 
the above mixture. Stir constantly until the cream thick- 
ens like mush. When cold, flavor to taste. Split the layers 
and fill. 

110 



SPONGE JELLY ROLL. 

Make a light sponge cake. Turn out on clean napkin. 
Spread with any kind of marmalade or jelly and roll up 
with napkin, turning back cloth each roll. Serve with 
foamy sauce. 

ORANGE ROLL. 

Make light sponge roll. Spread with orange cream, 
three oranges, pulp and juice, two cups confectioners' su- 
gar, one tablespoon butter. Stir over steam until creamy 
and put on roll while hot. Serve with orange sauce. 

"BRIDE'S CAKE." 

15 whites. 5 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups sugar. sifted 5 times with 1 lb. 

1/2 lb. butter (1 cup). of flour. 

1 cup sweet milk. Almond and vanilla. 

WHITE CAKE. 

14 whites. 1/2 lb. butter. 

1 lb. sugar. 1/2 teaspoon soda. 

1 lb. flour, 1 teaspoon cream tartar. 

1 cup sweet milk. Vanilla and orange. 

Cream soda with butter; sift cream tartar with flour. 

SMALL CONFECTIONS— SNOW BALLS. 

4 whites. Yo cup com starch. 

1/^ cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1-3 cup butter. i/^ cup sweet milk. 

1 cup flour. 

Cream butter and sugar, add gradually milk, flour and 
eggs. Put batter in six well buttered cups and steam one- 
half hour. Turn out, roll in powdered sugar, and serve with 
tutti frutti sauce. 

BROWNIES. 

11/2 cup bro\\'Ti sugar. 2 eggs beaten very light. 

1 scant cup butter. 2 tablespoons of buttermilk. 

2 cups flour. 1 scant teaspoon of soda. 
2 teaspoons cinnamon. 1 cup chopped dates. 

Y2 cup nuts. 

Drop in greased pan and bake. 

Ill 



COCOA FRUIT COOKIES. 
2-3 cup butter. 1 full teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

2 cups flour. 1 cup pecans chopped. 
14 cup cocoa. 1 cup dates. 

1 scant teaspoon soda. 

Cream butter, add sugar, sift the flour, cocoa, soda and 
cinnamon ; to the butter and sugar add the well-beaten eggs 
and flour, then dates and pecans. Drop by spoonfuls into 
a well-greased biscuit pan and cook in moderate oven. 

ENGLISH SHORT CAKE. 

Rub into one pound of flour four onces butter, four 
ounces powdered sugar, one egg and two spoonfuls cream 
enough to make a paste. Put currants into one-half and 
caraway seeds into other. Roll thin, cut into biscuits. Bake 
fifteen minutes. 

CRULLERS. 
4 eggs. 10 oz. sugar. 

11/2 lb. flour. 1/2 tablespoon grated nutmeg. 

14 lb. butter. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

Shortening enough to float the cakes. Beat yolks of 
eggs well, add sugar, salt and butter rubbed into part of 
the flour; add whites of eggs and sugar, making a stiff 
dough. Knead smooth after adding nutmeg. Slit like a 
gridiron with a sharp knife and run your fingers under 
every alternate strip, pressing the ridge toward one corner. 
Drop or lay on egg beater or croquette basket in boiling, 
shortening until pale brown. Lift out carefully, sprinkle 
with granulated sugar and drain on paper or cloth. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup milk. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoons of fat. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Flour enough to roll. Flavor with nutmeg and fry in 
hot fat. Use the small centers for balls. 

PECAN COOKIES. 

1/2 cup butter. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup chopped pecans. 

1 cup sweet milk. 31/2 cups flour. 

Drop on greased paper in pan and cook as tea cakes. 

112 



ENGLISH COOKIES. 

2 whole eggs or 4 yolks 2 cups flour with 2 tea- 
beaten very light. spoons baking powder. 

1 cup sugar. % cup grape juice with 2 tea- 
% cup butter. spoons cinnamon and V2 

teaspoon cloves. 

To this batter add one cup chopped raisins, three-quar- 
ters cup chopped pecans. Mix all well and bake in gem 
rings. 

LITTLE CAKES. 

2 eggs whipped very light. 1/2 cup sweet milk. 

V2 cup butter. 2 cups flour with 2 teaspoons 

1 cup sugar creamed well baking powder, 

with butter. 

Flavor with lemon or vanilla, mix well and bake in gem 
pans. 

OAT MEAL DROP COOKIES. 

34 cup butter. 1 level teaspoon baking 

1 cup white sugar. powder. 

14 cup sweet milk. 1 level teaspoon cinnamon. 

2 cups Quaker oats. 1 level teaspoon nutmeg. 
114 cups flour. 1/2 teaspoon cloves. 

2 eggs. 1 cup seeded raisins cut fine. 
1 level teaspoon salt. 1 2 cup hickory nuts. 

Drop in buttered baking pan in spoonfuls some distance 
apart. If dough spreads too much add more flour. 

TEA CAKES. 

3 eggs. 3 level teaspoons baking pow- 
2-3 cup butter or 1/2 cup der. 

fat. 3 cups flour sifted 3 times 

2 cups sugar. with powder. 

Beat eggs light, add sugar, then softened butter. Mix 
into flour and add enough flour to roll into soft dough. Roll 
thin, sprinkle with sugar, and cut with fancy cutter. Bake 
in quick oven. 

ALMOND CAKE. 
14 pound almonds, blanch- Whites 5 eggs. 

ed, browned and y^ pound sugar (2 cups), 

ground. 
Beat whites stiff, add sugar and then almonds. Drop 
in greased pan. Bake in stove oven. Make in sheets and 
put together with whipped cream. 

113 
(8) 



ROLLED WAFERS. 
3 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

1 full tablespoon butter. 1 pint flour. 

Beat yolks and sugar together, add whites beaten stiff. 
Then flour, put a small spoonful in wafer iron, cook and roll 
while hot. 

BREAD CRUMB CAKES. 

1 cup sugar. 1 large cup flour. 

1-3 cup shortening. i/? teaspoon soda. 

1/2 cup sour milk. 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon. 

1/2 cup raisins or dates. II/2 cups bread crumbs. 
Mix and drop in spoonful on greased tins. If desired 
add 14 cup of nuts. — (From Little Rock.) 

GINGER CAKES. 
Mammy's Ginger Cakes. 

2 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 
1/2 cup buttermilk, 1/2 cup fat. 

14 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons soda. 

1 pt. molasses. 1 tablespoon ginger. 

Rub with yolks of eggs; roll thin, cut with cake cutter 
and bake. 

FUDGE CAKE. 

1 cup of sugar. 2 eggs beaten together. 
1/2 cup of butter. 2 squares of chocolate. 
1 cup of flour. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Pinch of salt. V2 pound pecans or black wal- 

nuts. 
Grease biscuit pan and bake in moderate oven. Cut in 
squares. 

JUMBLES. 

3 eggs. 3 tablespoons sweet milk. 

2 cups sugar. 3 cups flour sifted with 3 tea- 
% cup butter or fat. spoons baking powder. 

Roll thin, add more flour to keep from sticking, sprinkle 
with ground almonds and sugar and bake quickly. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 
1/2 cup butter. 2 eggs. 

1 cup molasses. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1/2 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

3 cups flour. i/i teaspoon cinnamon. 
14 cup milk. 

Make and bake as cake, serve hot with sauce. 

114 




NO. 1. FIRST POSITION IN MAKING TUBE. 




NO. 2. SECOND POSITION IN MAKING TUBE. 



GINGER BREAD. 
3/4 cup butter melted. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

11/2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

34 cup milk. 1 full teaspoon ginger. 

5 cups flour. 

Roll thin in sheets and mark with a grooved roller; 
sprinkle with sugar and bake in moderate oven. 

. GINGER SNAPS. 
Heat to boiling one cup of black molasses, one cup but- 
ter, two cups brown sugar, two tablespoons ground ginger, 
one tablespoon cinnamon, one teaspoon soda. When boil- 
ing take from fire and beat well. When cool, add two beaten 
eggs and flour enough to make stiff dough. Roll very thin 
and bake in a quick oven. 

GINGER BALLS NO. 1. 
4 egg yolks beaten light 3 cups flour with one heap- 
(with part of sugar). ing teaspoon of baking 

1/^ cup butter. powder. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons cinnamon. 

V-2 cup sweet milk. 1 light cup of crystallized gin- 

2 tablespoons grape juice. ger and raisins chopped 

fine. 
Bake in well buttered gem rings. 

MARGUERITES FOR LUNCHES. 

Juice of V^ orange. 1 cupful chopped pecans. 

1 cupful sugar. 1/2 cupful cocoanut. 

14 marshmallows. V2 cup candied pineapple. 

2 eggs, whites. 1 box square saltines. 

Place orange and sugar in saucepan and boil to soft 
ball stage. Add marshmallows cut in small pieces, let stand 
until melted. Beat whites stiff and add to mixture; mix 
thoroughly and beat until it stiffens. Add the other things ; 
spread on saltines and bake in oven until deep straw color. 

CORN FLAKE CAKES. 
2 eggs. ,1 cup sugar. 

4 heaping cups corn flakes. 2 teaspoons vanilla flavoring. 
1 cup pecans. 

Beat eggs very light, add sugar, flavoring, corn flakes 
and last nuts. This should be very stiff. Drop in scant 
teaspoonful on greased pan. Pile them up as they spread. 
One cup cocoanut may be used instead of pecans for a 
change. 

115 



ICINGS, FILLINGS, ETC. 



Mrs. Wilson's Decorative and Plain Icing. 

4 whites of eggs. 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 

21/2 cups sugar. and tartaric acid mixed 

1 cup water. in the proportion of 1 

1 teaspoon lemon juice, or part acid to 2 parts bak- 

ing powder. 

Cook syrup until it drops thick from spoon. Have whites 
beaten stiff and smooth with the half cup of sugar. Add 
syrup to eggs a little at a time, letting the last cook until 
it threads. After beating well, put over pan of hot water 
and add powder. Cook until it piles without sinking, to 
decorate. Plain icing will not require so much cooking. 
The decorative icing can be beaten back smooth with a 
spoon. Use lemon if preferred to powder. 

INSTRUCTION FOR USING ICING. 

When the icing is taken from the steam, gently fold 
until cool — if it stands uncovered any length of time the 
air will form a crust over the top. When not ready for use, 
lightly cover with wax paper — always use the top for filling 
if particles of crust should form. Icing should be like 
marshmallow and should stand firm between cake. The 
part for the top of the cake, if too stiff to spread nicely, 
must be beaten smooth with spoon before trying to ice 
with spatula. 

To color, put the amount for one color in plate — take a 
small portion with small spatula to the side, mix color de- 
sired thoroughly into this small amount, then gently fold 
into the rest. Never beat this, as it must stand firm for 
decorating. Make tube according to illustrations; tube 
should be about one-half full, fold the top well and hold in 
palm of hand so as to be comfortable. When a flat leaf or 
petal, such as a rose, is needed, cut the V shape as in illus- 
tration No. 6. Cut tube before filling — always hold the 
tube so the point will be on a direct line with the thumb — 
do not press until tube is in place where you wish the leaf. 
With a slight pressure of hand the leaf will be formed. 

116 




No. 3. MADE TUBE. 




NO. 4. PLACE IN WHICH TO PIN TUBE 



There are only two kinds of tubes — one V shape and 
the other M shaped with two points. The V can be cut 
small or large, making the different sizes of leaves, the two 
points making the long petals for daisies, chrysanthemums 
and carnations. Any way you hold this tube it makes the 
long, narrow leaf by moving hand toward the body until 
the petal is formed to represent the flower desired. Be 
sure to have tube well closed and folded to fit the palm of 
hand, keeping all of the icing in front of thumb. By a lit- 
tle practice this will become easy and after learning how 
to make the different petals one can soon put them together 
to form the flowers. 

Molded flowers are made by making candy fondant or 
adding XXXX sugar to this icing. Work into a dough and 
with the fingers you can form any shapes you may wish. 
See hats in illustrations. Make also buttercup centers, col- 
oring yellow; morning glories, etc. 

CREAM ICING. 

The advantages of these simple little icings are many. 
In the first place, they are inexpensive as they contain no 
eggs. They are easily and quickly made and do not require 
tedious standing over the stove. One important feature is 
that there is not a particle of waste. The icing that may 
fall down on the side of the cake and on platter can be 
taken up with spatula and put back into bowl. If the icing 
should be stiflf add a little cream. After a little practice 
one can make this icing to perfection. 

The XXXX sugar called for in the recipes is a sugar 
having the consistency of flour and is known as confec- 
tioners sugar. Powdered or XXX has a little grain; it can 
be detected by rubbing between forefinger and thumb. 

Any one of these icings makes a delicious filling for a 
layer cake, and is especially good when combined with pe- 
cans, almonds, raisins or home-made citron. 

Spread the lower layer of the cake with half of the 
amount of icing. When this has set, scatter over it first 
one ingredient of the filling, as the raisins, then another, 
as the pecans. With the spatula spread on top of these 
the remainder of the icing and on this place the second 

117 



layer of the cake. By this method of scattering the nuts 
and fruit the icing is not discolored and the different in- 
gredients are evenly distributed. 

It will be noticed that if one wishes to make both filling 
and frosting, double the amount called for by the recipe 
is required. This double amount can be made in one cook- 
ing, but time is gained by making the filling and frosting 
separately on the principle that the bigger the bulk to be 
cooked the longer the time required. If the recipe is as- 
sembled at the beginning more time is necessary for the 
first cooking. The half set aside while the filling is being 
built on the cake must eventually be returned to the stove 
to be softened. As the same bowl may be used for the 
second recipe Vs^ithout washing, it is advisable to merely 
measure into it the ingredients for the frosting and prepare 
them when desired. 

CREAM ICING. 

8 tablespoons evaporated 2 tablespoons butter. 

cream. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

4 cups XXXX sugar. 

Cream butter and add sugar and cream. Put over hot 
water, add vanilla and stir into creamy icing. When taken 
off, let cool a little before icing cakes. If it gets stiff, beat, 
and if necessary put back over hot water. This can be 
kept several days. If too hard after cooling, add cream. 

To make chocolate icing, add cocoa to taste. 

BROWN SUGAR ICING. 

4 tablespoons sweet cream. 14 cup butter. 
2 cups light brown sugar. 

Mix as above, adding cream a little at a time. 

YELLOW ICING. 

Yolks 4 eggs beaten light. 1 cup water. 
2 cups sugar. 

Cook syrup until it drops from spoon, beat gradually 
into eggs, cooking syrup all the time until the last is used. 
When cool, flavor with orange and spread between cake be- 
fore it gets stiff. Nuts can be added to filling. 

118 




NO. 6. FINISHED TUBES. SHOWING CUTTINGS. 



SEAFOAM ICING. 

Whites four eggs. 2 tablespoons corn syrup. 

2 cups light brown sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 
2 cups white sugar. i/o teaspoon cream of tartar 

1/2 cup evaporated milk. baking powder. 

Moisten sugar with milk, add syrup and butter. Cook to 
soft ball stage. Beat whites stiff and pour over them this 
mixture little at a time; add baking powder after taking 
from stove. Beat until it creams ; add nuts if desired. 
Spread on cake. Good. 

FILLING CHOCOLATE. 

1/4 lb. chocolate. 3 cups of sugar. 

1 cup of milk. 4 eggs yolks. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Put sugar, milk and eggs on to cook. Boil five minutes, 
add butter and take from stove. Have chocolate melted 
and add when mixture is cooling. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE FILLING. 
3 cups granulated sugar. 3 tablespoons of chocolate or 
11/2 cups sweet milk. cocoa. 

1 full tablespoon of butter. 
Boil until forms a soft ball in cold water; add butter 
and take from fire; beat into a creamy state and put on 
cake. Add nuts to filling. 

CARAMEL FILLING. 

3 cups sugar. 1/2 cup caramel syrup. 

11/2 cups milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Put milk and three cups sugar on fire. Watch carefully. 
Caramel the one-half cup sugar in iron or steel spider and 
when it boils up pour into milk and sugar while boiling; 
when both are the same heat the caramel sugar will not 
crystallize. Cook until forms soft ball in cold water. Put 
in butter; take from fire. When cools a little, beat into a 
creamy state and put on cake. Should it get too stiff, add 
a little cream. 

WINE FILLING. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

6 yolks. 1/2 cup butter. 

1/2 cup chopped pecans. 1 cup home-made wine. 

Cook over steam until thick and add pecans. 

119 



LEMON CREAM. 

Grated rind and juice of 1 tablBspoon butter. 
2 lemons. 3 whole eggs. 

1 tumbler of sugar. 

Cook in double boiler until thick as honey and put be- 
tween cake. 

MILK FILLING. 

10 tablespoons of sweet 1/2 cup sugar, 

milk. 
Boil six minutes and beat until cool. 

PINEAPPLE FILLING. 
1 pt. can pineapple. 1^4 box gelatine. 

.1 cup sugar. 

Put on stove and boil until thick. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FILLING FOR SPONGE CAKES. 

1 cup double cream. 1 egg white. 

1-3 cup sugar. 2 tablespoons of vanilla. 

Whip cream until stiff, beat eggs stiff and add sugar 
to eggs ; whip until light. Fold in the cream, add flavoring 
and put between cake and on top. Serve same day it is 
made. 

ALMOND PASTE FOR ICING CAKE. 

Four ounces almond paste ; yolks two eggs. Beat yolks 
light, add paste and mix well. Dust board with XXXX 
sugar. Roll out paste the desired thickness, spread over 
cake and let dry; ice over top. This keeps cake moist and 
gives it a nice flavor. 

ALMOND PASTE FOR MOULDING. 
1/2 lb. pulverized sugar. 1 tablespoon strained lemon 

3 tablespoons brandy. juice. 

1/^ lb. ground almonds. 

Put all in stewpan over the fire and stir constantly 
seven or eight minutes; mold while hot. Can be colored 
before cooking if desired. Line molds for cream with this 
paste. 

CAKE FILLING. 
1 cup sour cream. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup nuts. 

Cook slowly until thick and dries when beaten in saucer. 

120 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



BOILED CUSTARD. 

1 pint milk. 3 egg yolks. 

Pinch salt. 1 cup sugar. 

1 teaspoon butter. 1 tablespoon com starch. 

Put milk in double boiler, add salt and butter. Mix 
corn starch with a little cold milk. When milk is ready 
to boil stir in corn starch, then the yolks that have been 
well beaten with sugar. Cook until thick ; add whites beaten 
stiff just before taking off fire or pour over them and fold 
into the custard. This is good without whites and a nice 
way to use yolks. Fruit may be added to this or served in 
glasses over fruit. 

This is a good foundation for corn starch pudding, cabi- 
net pudding, using double quantity of corn starch. Make 
meringue of whites. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Two eggs beaten with two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
then added to one pint of scalded milk. Flavor with va- 
nilla. Bake for one-half hour or until it will no longer coat 
a knife blade. 

MARY'S PUDDING. 

Make boiled custard, using yolks only. One cup seeded 
raisins ; one cup home-made citron cut in small strips ; one- 
half pound lady fingers or pieces of stale cake. Line a 
buttered mold with the cake, then layer of raisins and 
citron, another of cake and so on until it is filled. Pour 
over this the custard. Set in pan of hot water and put in 
oven to season and make firm. Serve with home-made 
wine sauce. 

FOR BREAD PUDDING. 

Fill a pudding dish with thin slices of buttered bread 
into which raisins have been pressed. Pour custard mix- 
ture over and bake. 

121 



LEMON PUDDING. 

8 egg yolks. i/i lb." butter. 

1 lb. sugar. Juice of 3 lemons. 

Put all in double boiler. Cook until consistency of 
cream. Line bowl with lady fingers, pour pudding over 
them. Make meringue of whites and put over top. Brown 
a light color in oven. Whipped cream may be used instead. 
This makes a delicious filling for cake. 

GINGER PUDDING. 

3 eggs. V-2 cup buttermilk. 

4 cups flour. IV2 teaspoons ginger. 
1 cup brown sugar. 1 lb. raisins. 

1 cup butter. V2 lb. citron. 

1 cup molasses. 14 lb. almonds. 

Stir one teaspoon soda which has been dissolved in hot 
water into milk, beat this with molasses ; add molasses and 
milk while foaming to yellows, sugar and butter; then one 
and a half tablespoons ginger ; spice to taste, then flour and 
whites alternately. Batter must be very stiff. 

Flour raisins and citron, cut fine. Blanched almonds 
cut fine. Mix all with batter; put into buttered molds, not 
too full, and steam two or three hours. Serve with hot 
sauce. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

One quart milk, three tablespoons corn starch dissolved 
in cold water, yolks five eggs beaten light with six table- 
spoons sugar. Boil three or four minutes until thick, pour 
in dish and bake half hour. Beat whites stiff with six 
tablespoons sugar; put on top and brown. 

CONTINENTAL PUDDING. 

1/2 cup butter. II/2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

3 eggs beaten well. 1 teaspoon nutmeg. 

1/2 cup buttermilk. 1 cup jam or preserves. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Bake in pan. Serve with caramel sauce. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 
Caramel one cup sugar, add one cup boiling water, sim- 
mer gently ten minutes. Add one teaspoonful butter, one 
teaspoonful vanilla. 

122 



CREAM PUFFS. 

1 pint water. 4 oz. pastry flour. 

2 oz. butter. 4 eggs. 

Put water and butter over fire; when boiling, add 
quickly the flour; beat until smooth. Take from fire and 
let cool. Beat into this one egg at a time, mix and beat 
thoroughly. Drop by spoonful into a greased pan ; bake in 
moderate oven forty minutes. 

Filling For Cream Puffs. 

1/2 pint milk. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon corn starch. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 
3 egg yolks. 

Cook over hot water. Let cool and fill puflFs. Split on 
sides. Add chocolate to this mixture to make a change; 
also pecans or hickory nuts. 

SPICE PUDDING. 

1 cup butter. 14 teaspoon nutmeg. 

3 cups flour. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup buttermilk. 1 cup molasses (New Or- 

2 eggs beaten together. leans). 

1 level teaspoon cinnamon. 1 teaspoon soda. 

Serve with hot sauce. 

EGOLESS SHORTCAKE. 

2-3 cup milk. 4 level teaspoons baking pow- 

2 scant tablespoons but- c^er. 

_ , ,^^^- Flour to make soft dough. 

^ tablespoons sugar dis- 
solved in milk. 

Roll out not too thin and bake in cake pan, not too hard. 
When cool and just before serving place sweetened berries 
between. Serve with whipped cream. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
Put three tablespoonfuls of granulated tapioca in a pint 
of cold milk in the double boiler. When the tapioca is trans- 
parent (in about twenty minutes) add four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and one beaten egg. Cook five or six minutes 
longer till thick and take from the fire. Flavor with va- 
nilla or lemon. May be made the day before. 

123 



DELICIOUS JAM PUDDING. 

1 cup jam. 1 cup sugar, 

1/2 cup butter. 4 eggs. 

Bake in stone dish fifteen minutes. Serve hot with 
whipped cream. 

FIG PUDDING. 

1 lb. figs chopped fine 3 eggs. 

and flavored. 1 cup sweet milk. 

1/2 lb. suet. 1 cup maraschino cherry 
1/2 lb. bread crumbs. juice. 

1/2 lb. sugar. 

Mix eggs, sugar and milk, then bread crumbs, then suet 
and figs. Add one teaspoon baking powder. Steam in large 
mold or in individuals. Steam for two and a half hours 
and serve hot with rich sauce. 

JOHNNIE'S DELIGHT. 
(Cheap Plum Pudding.) 

2 cups stale bread crumbs. 1/2 cup chopped beef suet, 
1 cup molasses. 1 cup raisins. 

1 cup milk (sweet). 1/0 cup flour. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 1 egg. 

1/2 teaspoon cloves. I/4, teaspoon soda. 
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg. 

Mix well and steam three hours. Leave three or four 
inches in can for dough to rise. Serve with hot sauce. 

BISHOP WHIPPLE PUDDING. 

1 cup chopped nuts — pe- 2-3 cup flour. 

cans best. 2 eggs. 

1 cup chopped dates. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
1/2 cup sugar. 

Mix as cake, except beat whites and yolks together and 
bake in biscuit pan. Break in pieces while hot and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Bake sponge cake in sheet; cut into two pieces. Put a 
layer of sliced orange sections between, sprinkle with su- 
gar, cover with meringue and put in oven to brown. 

124 



SOUTHERN BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 
1 qt. blackberries. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 cup flour. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

Dip berries in water, then in flour in which the baking 
powder has been sifted. Put into cheesecloth bag, drop 
into boiling water and cook for thirty minutes. Serve with 
following sauce: 

Sauce. 
1 cup sugar. Several teaspoons cream. 

14 cup butter. 

Mix together and pour over pudding. Serve hot. 

BREAD PUDDING. 
3 eggs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 qt. milk. A little lemon and nut- 

1 heaping pint bread meg. 

crumbs. Pinch salt. 

lyo cups sugar or to taste. 

Soak crumbs until soft and measure, add yolks and 
beat until light, then add other ingredients. Bake until 
custard sets, then make meringue of whites, with a table- 
spoon sugar to each white. Bake to a light brown, spread 
wath jelly and put meringue on top. 

CARAMEL PUDDING. 

6 tablespoons white sugar, 3 tablespoons sugar. 

browned to syrup in V2 cup milk. 

iron saucepan. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

3 eggs beaten together. 

Beat together, pour sauce in six cups and the mixture 
over it. Set in pan of hot water; cook twenty minutes. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

1 qt. milk. 1 tablespoon grated choco- 

5 eggs. late. 

10 tablespoons bread 1 cup sugar. 

crumbs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Scald milk, add bread crumbs and sugar; cook five min- 
utes. Take from fire and pour over the grated chocolate. 
Stir until dissolved. It will take about ten minutes. Add 
vanilla to taste. Add butter, then the well-beaten eggs; 
bake until firm in a pan of water. When done, cool and 
chill. Serve with whipped cream. 

125 



MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

Soak one-half box of gelatine in one-half pint of cold 
water fifteen minutes. Pour over this one-half pint of boil- 
ing water; stir on stove until gelatine is thoroughly dis- 
solved. Beat whites of four eggs stiff and dry. Add one 
scant cup of sugar. When gelatine is cool beat gradually 
into eggs. Flavor with anything you like, though vanilla 
is always good. Divide this color one-half pink or green. 
Put filling between two layers — nuts, cherries, any fruit 
you want. Line a mold or pan with oil paper and set in ice 
to ripen. Serve with whipped cream sweetened and flavored. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 



6 eggs beaten very light. 


2 tablespoons fresh lemon 


2 cups brown sugar. 


juice. 


34 lb. beef suet or butter. 


To this add— 


l^ lb. bread crumbs. 


1 lb. Sultana raisins. 


3^ lb. flour. 


1 lb. seeded raisins. 


1/2 cup sweet milk. 


1 lb. currants. 



1/2 cup maraschino cherries.1/2 lb. pecans. 

Dissolve in cherry juice. 1 lb. home-made citron, or- 
14 teaspoon cloves. ange paste, pineapple 

2 teaspoons cinnamon. and cherries. 

1 teaspoon nutmeg. 

Mix all well, put in well-greased quart buckets, steam 
three or four hours. Serve with sauce. 

CHRISTMAS PLUMB PUDDING. 



2 lbs. currants. 


1 lb. beef suet or butter. 


2 lbs. raisins. 


1/^ lb. bread crumbs. 


1/2 lb. citron. 


1 cup molasses. 


1/2 lb- almonds. 


1 cup maraschino juice. 


1/2 lb. cherries. 


1 tablespoon salt (if suet is 


1/2 lb. pecans. 


used). 


1 lb. brown sugar. 


2 teaspoons cinnamon. 


1 lb. browned flour. 


1/2 teaspoon cloves. 


8 whole eggs. 


1 grated nutmeg. 


2 teaspoons baking pow- 




der sifted with flour. 





Mix suet and sugar well together, then molasses, eggs 
and crumbs. Add fruit last. Steam for three hours in 
well-buttered one-pound baking powder cans. This will 
make eight. Serve with this brown sugar sauce with wine. 

126 



BLACKBERRY JAM PUDDING. 

1 cup sugar. 1/2 cup blackberry jam. 

1 heaping tablespoon but- 2 tablespoons flour. 

ter. V2 cup cream. 

2 eggs beaten separately. 

Cream butter, add sugar, add yolks, then jam. Beat 
well, add flour, cream and jam. Bake forty-five minutes. 

APPLE JELLY SAUCE FOR FRUIT PUDDING. 

2 egg whites. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

y2 glass apple jelly. 

Beat eggs stiff with sugar, add jelly and beat all until 
very light. 

CHERRY SAUCE. 

2 heaping cups of sugar. 1 pint boiling water. 

1 tablespoon corn starch 1 cup mashed cherries. 

mixed with sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Cook until smooth and thick. Serve hot. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

2 eggs. 1 lemon. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup grated apple. 

Beat the yolks and sugar, add rind and juice of lemon, 
then the beaten whites and the apple gradually. Cook three 
minutes over boiling water, stirring constantly. 

HARD SAUCE. 

14 cup butter. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

2 cups powdered sugar. 

Cream butter until very light, gradually add sugar, then 
flavoring, and lastly whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. 

FOAMY SAUCE. 

y2 cup butter. i/^ cup boiling water. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 1 egg white beaten stiff. 

2 tablespoons vanilla. 

Cream butter and sugar, add vanilla. Just before serv- 
ing add boiling water, stir well, then add whites, beat all 
into foam and serve at once. 

127 



WINE SAUCE. 
1 cup sugar. l^ cup butter. 

Cream sugar and butter well. Put over hot water and 
add one-half cup home-made wine. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

1 cup white sugar. 1 teaspoon butter if you use 
11/2 cups rich milk or cream. milk without cream. 

14 cake chocolate. 

Put milk, sugar and chocolate in double boiler. Cook 
until smooth. Flavor with vanilla. 

MERINGUE SAUCE. 

3 egg whites. 1 cup water. 

11/2 cups sugar. Vanilla to taste. 

Cook syrup until it threads, pour over stiffly-beaten 
whites; add flavoring. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

2 cups XXXX sugar. V2 cup butter. 
Juice of 2 oranges, grated 4 egg whites. 

rind of one. 

Cream butter and sugar, add two tablespoons cream, 
stir over hot water until well blended. Add orange and 
grated rind. If you want cold sauce, add the beaten whites 
after cooling; if hot, add at once. Pineapple and lemon 
sauce may be made the same way. 

YELLOW SAUCE. 

3 egg yolks beaten light. 1 tablespoon corn starch. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

2 cups sweet milk. 

Flavor with vanilla and orange. Cook as a custard. 
Serve hot. 

TUTTI FRUTTI SAUCE. 

8 tablespoons cream. 1 cup raisins. 

1/2 cup butter. 1 cup pineapple and cherries. 

2 cups light brown sugar. 1 cup nuts. 

Serve cold as hard sauce or hot as desired. 

128 



PUFF PASTE. 

2 cups flour. 1/2 cup ice water. 

1 cup butter. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Wash butter well. Take out one tablespoon, put the 
rest in refrigerator. Sift salt with flour, put in tablespoon 
butter. With the tips of fingers mix into stiff dough with 
ice water. Knead until smooth. Roll out into oblong pieces. 
Put the rest of butter in the center, fold sides and ends 
over the butter. Let stand ten minutes, roll again with 
light quick strokes. Fold the ends to center and then fold 
again. Turn and roll as before, always letting it stand be- 
tween rolling. 

After rolling several times cut into shape, chill, and 
bake in hot oven. This can be cut in rounds one-fourth 
inch thick, put two rounds together, cut out center of top 
with smaller cutter. Use this for top after the cases are 
filled with creamed meats or vegetables. 

CREAM PASTRY FOR ROLLS, DUMPLINGS AND 
SOME FRUIT PIES. 

1 pint flour. 1/2 cup butter and fat mixed. 

1 spoon salt. Sweet milk enough to 

2 spoons powder. make soft dough. 
1 tablespoon sugar. 

POTATO PASTRY. 

1 cup potatoes (Irish). Pinch salt. 

1 cup flour sifted. 

Cook potatoes and thoroughly mash and mix with flour 
while warm. Roll out in rounds, fill with blackberries and 
drop in boiling hot water for thirty minutes. Serve with 
rich sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Cut pastry in rounds with saucer. Cut apples in pieces ; 
put in center, with sugar, a lump of butter, little cinnamon 
or lemon juice. Bring the dough over the fruit and press 
together in middle. Fill pan with these, sprinkle with su- 
gar and butter, pour over water enough to make a syrup. 
Cook until done. Serve with hard butter sauce flavored 
with sherry or vanilla. All fruit may be used this way. 
Combination fruit sometimes makes delicious dumplings. 

129 
(9) 



PLAIN PASTRY. 

Pastry for one custard or pie: 

1 cup flour. 1/^ teaspoon salt and a little 

2 tablespoons fat or butter. sugar. 

Sift flour, salt and sugar, cut in shortening with knife. 
Mix lightly with ice water. Fold and chill. 

SMALL BERRY ROLL. 

Make one pint of flour into cream pastry, roll thin, spread 
with strawberries,, blackberries or raspberries. Sprinkle 
with sugar and butter and roll all together. Put in pan, 
sprinkle top with sugar, bits of butter and add water enough 
to make plenty of juice. Cook in oven until well done and 
make a little extra sauce if there is not plenty of juice, 
then roll is ready to serve. 

CUSTARD FOR PIES. 

3 egg yolks. ^4 teaspoon salt. 
2-3 cup sugar. 2 cups milk. 

1 full tablespoon corn 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

starch. 

Heat milk, beat yolks very light, add sugar and corn 
starch, beat again, mix with a little hot milk and add to 
rest of milk. Cook until thick, stirring all the time. Line 
pan with pastry and bake crust until set. Pour in custard 
and bake brown. For cocoanut, add one cup grated co- 
coanut. 

Sliced bananas may be used in this custard, making de- 
licious banana pie. 

Chocolate custard made also by adding one-fourth pound 
Baker's chocolate and two tablespoons butter. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD. 

2 eggs. gutter size of an egg. 

1 cup sugar. Half of a small can of grated 

1 cup water. pineapple. 

2 tablespoons corn starch. 

Put on water, sugar, butter and corn starch ; when thick, 
add yolks well beaten; when this is thick stir in pineapple. 
Have crust already baked. Can use same for lemon cus- 
tard except use rind and juice of one lemon. 

130 



HALF MOON PIES. 

Cut cream pastry in rounds, measuring with saucer. 
Fill with well-seasoned dried or fresh fruit, preserves or 
jam. Fold together and press edges with silver fork. Fry- 
in butter or fat, or bake in oven. Brush with butter and 
sprinkle with sugar while warm. 

CREAM CUSTARD. 

1-3 cup butter. 1-3 cup flour. 

Melt butter, and cream flour and butter together. Yolks 
of four eggs, one cup sugar, one and one-half cups sweet 
milk. Beat yolks, add sugar; when milk is scalded add 
flour and butter, then sugar and eggs. Cook in double boiler 
until thick. Add any flavoring. 

APPLE PIE. 

Line pie pan with pastry, roll thin, sprinkle with sugar, 
then layer of apples sliced very thin. Sprinkle again with 
sugar and bits of butter, strip across with pastry or cover 
top and sprinkle with sugar and butter, bake until tender 
and crust is brown. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

2 cups apples. Pinch salt. 

3 egg yolks. Season with nutmeg and cin- 
1 cup sugar. namon. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Stew apples until tender; run through sieve. 

Pinch salt, season with nutmeg and cinnamon. If mer- 
ingue is desired, beat three full tablespoons sugar into the 
three whites; bake in pastry. 

LEMON PIE. 
One pie : 

1 lemon. Grated rind of Vo a lemon. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon flour. 

V2 cup seeded raisins. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Cook over fire until thick, then add raisins. Bake pas- 
try and put in filling. Roll thin pastry for top. Can make 
roll instead of pie and serve with lemon sauce. 

131 



RAISIN ROLL. 

1 cup raisins. 1/2 cup fruit juice. 

1 cup English walnuts. 2 tablespoons butter. 

Roll pastry thin, spread with raisins, nuts, sugar and 
butter. Bake brown in moderate oven. Delicious. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 
Steam sweet potatoes. Line a pan with pastry, bake a 
little, put in layer of sweet potatoes sliced thin. Make a 
syrup of two tablespoons butter, one cup sugar, 1/2 cup 
corn syrup, two tablespoons water, a little cinnamon and 
allspice. Pour over potatoes and add another layer, then 
syrup. Bake as custard or cover and make an old-fashioned 
sweet potato pie. 

IRISH POTATO CUSTARD. 

1 cup boiled and mashed 2 egg yolks. 

potatoes. V-2 cup sugar. 

1/2 cup cream. A little nutmeg. 

Put in pastry and bake. Make meringue. This makes 
one large custard. Sweet potatoes may be used the same 
way. 

All berry pies are made in the same way, some requir- 
ing more sugar than others. Blackberries and raspberries 
are put in pastry before cooking, also cherries. Gooseber- 
ries and pie plant must be heated to 'boiling point and 
strained, then seasoned. 

CHESSS CAKES. 

5 eggs. 1 cup milk. 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon each flour ana 
1/2 cup butter. meal. 

Beat yolks light with sugar, mix flour and meal with 
dry sugar, add soft butter, and mix all with milk, make stiff 
meringue with five whites and five tablespoons sugar. This 
makes three pies. 

AMBER CUSTARD. 

4 eggs. V2 cup butter. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup plum jelly. 

1 cup sweet milk. 1 tablespoon flour and meal 

' mixed with sugar, 

132 



CHEAP LEMON CUSTARD. 

3 eggs. 1 tablespoon com starch in 3 
IV2 cups sugar. tablespoons milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. 2 lemons. 

Make meringue of whites. Enough for two pies. 

BLACKBERRY JAM CUSTARDS. 

4 eggs. 1 cup blackberry jam. 

1 cup sugar. I/2 cup butter. 

Bake in pastry, cover with meringue. If yolks only are 
used spread cream icing on top. Raspberries and straw- 
berries may be used the same way. 

BROWN SUGAR CUSTARD. 

3 cups brown sugar. V2 cup butter. 

3 eggs. 

Bake in good pastry. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 
To every cup of steamed and strained pumpkin add one 
tablespoon butter, one-half cup milk, yolk one egg, one-half 
cup sugar, pinch salt and a little nutmeg and cinnamon. 
Use whites for meringue if desired. 

MINCEMEAT. 

3 lbs. lean beef boiled and 3 lbs. light brown sugar. 

chopped fine. 1 cup molasses. 

2 lbs. suet chopped fine 1 cup vinegar. 

(add tablespoon salt). Rind of 1 orange. 

4 lbs. seeded raisins. Juice of 2 lemons. 

2 lbs. currants. 1 pint of good grape juice. 

1 lb. citron. Cinnamon and cloves to 

1 pk. winesap apples peeled taste, 
and chopped fine. 

GREEN TOMATO MINCEMEAT. 

One peck of green tomatoes, either cut up or ground. 
Scald and let stand until cold. Press out water gently and 
scald again. Drain off this water, but do not ever squeeze. 
Add 5 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. home-made citron and 2 lbs. raisins. 
Boil all until tender. Then add 1 cup grape juice and juice 
of 2 lemons, cloves, spices and nutmeg to taste. Put in 
jars and seal. This recipe makes most delicious pies. 

183 



MINCEMEAT PIES. 
Line pan with puff pastry and fill with mincemeat, cover 
with strips of pastry, sprinkle with sugar and bake. 

GELATINE JELLY. 
Always soak gelatine in cold water before dissolving in 
hot water. Use sugar according to acid in the fruit, some 
requiring more sugar than others; one-half cup to a pint 
is good proportion. 

LEMON JELLY. 

1 pint lemon juice. II/2 cups sugar. 

2 cups cold water. 3 cups boiling water. 
1/2 box gelatine. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

1/^ box gelatine. 1 cup sugar. 

1 pint cold water. 1 cup orange juice. 

IV^ cups boiling water. Juice of 1 lemon. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY. 

1/2 pint cold water. 1 cup pineapple cut in small 

1 pint boiling water. pieces. 

2 lemons. 1 box gelatine. 

1 cup pineapple juice. 

Put pineapple juice, sugar and water on fire. When 
boiling pour over gelatine which has been soaked in cold 
water. When cool and before it begins to set, add fruit. 

APPLES IN JELLY. 
5 apples. 1 15-cent bottle maraschino 

11/2 cups sugar. cherries. 

11/2 cups water. 2 tablespoons gelatine soaked 

1/2 cup raisins. in 1/2 cup water. 

Juice 1 lemon. 

Put on sugar with water, cook into syrup. Peel and 
core five apples, stuff with raisins and cherries. Place in 
syrup and cook until tender; take out carefully and place 
on dish an inch deep on sides. Add lemon and cherry juice 
to syrup, also gelatine. When thoroughly dissolved and 
nearly cool, pour around and over apples. Color any shade 
with color paste. Cut out apples with round cutter if it is 
to be sensed as individuals. They are pretty served in 
crystal dish with meat course. 

134 



WINE JELLY. 

1 pint cold water. 1 egg white slightly beaten, 

1 box gelatine. 2 lemons. 

1 pint boiling water. 1 stick cinnamon. 

li/o cups sugar. IV2 cups home-made wine. 

Make as lemon jelly; when cool add fruit and wine. 

PEACH JELLY. 

Use pretty halves of firm peaches. Use same propor- 
tions as for wine jelly, only one cup wine. When almost 
cool pour over the peaches laid on pretty dish. 

Orange jelly may be used with pineapple and cherries. 

CARAMEL POWDER. 
114 cups granulated sugar. \/o lb. almonds. 

Melt sugar in steel spider, blanch almonds, add to sugar 
and when brown to cream color, pour out on greased mar- 
ble or platter. When cold, pound into a powder. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

1/2 lb. Italian chestnuts. 1 tablespoon corn starch. 

2 cups rich milk. 14 box gelatine. 
1/2 cup sugar. 14 cup water. 

3 yolks. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Boil chestnuts, drain and put through sieve. Soak gela- 
tine in the water and add gradually to hot chestnuts. Make 
milk, eggs, sugar and corn starch into custard, add chest- 
nuts to this. Stir until cool. Put in border mold, and when 
ready to serve, fill with whipped cream that has been sweet- 
ened and flavored. 

GOOD CHARLOTTE. 

1 pint double cream. 10 cts. orange paste. 

1/2 cup sugar. 1 cup almonds, blanched, 
10 cts. worth marshmal- ground and browned, 

lows. 1-3 cup grape wine. 

Whip cream stiff, fold in sugar, cut marshmallows and 
paste in pieces ; gently fold in, set on ice to chill. If desi»ed, 
use one bottle of marrons with marshmallows instead of 
almonds and paste. 

135 



BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Bavarian creams are a combination of fruit juices and 
other liquids, as milk, coffee, chocolate and cream. 

1/2 box gelatine. 1/2 cup orange juice. 

1/2 cup cold water. V2 cup sugar. 

1 cup strawberry juice 1 pint whipped cream, 
and pulp. 

Soften gelatine in cold water for ten minutes. Dissolve 
by putting vessel in hot water. Strain this into strawberry 
and orange juice. Add sugar and stir until thoroughly dis- 
solved. When mixture begins to set, fold in cream. 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

1/2 box gelatine. 1 cup pineapple juice (water 

1 quart berries. v/ill do). 

2 cups sugar. 

Pick, wash and cap strawberries. Let stand vnth one 
cup sugar for an hour. Mash and strain out cup juice. 
May be put through colander, letting some of the pulp go 
through. Put this cup of juice over the gelatine. 

Heat to the boiling point the pineapple juice. Beat the 
eggs stiff over crushed ice, add the sugar and beat well 
again. Pour over this a little at a time the other mixture. 
When nearly set, put in mould dipped in cold water. Line 
a pretty mold with strawberries cut in halves ; when chilled 
and ready to use, turn on platter and garnish with whole 
berries and whipped cream. Serve with strawberry sauce. 

JELLIED PLUM PUDDING. 

3 tart apples. 1 cup nuts. 

1/2 lb. stoned dates. 1/2 cup brown sugar, 

i cup raisins. 2 cups water. 

Make syrup of sugar and water and gently simmer there- 
in the pared and quartered apples. For the last ten min- 
utes add raisins and dates and allow to cook with apples. 
Dates should be cut in one-half-inch pieces. Add gelatine, 
stir until dissolved, add nuts and place in mold. Slice and 
serve with sauce or whipped cream. 



136 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



There is nothing more appetizing than a dainty glass 
of ice in the heated season. 

There are so many desserts that come under this head. 

They consist of Philadelphia and French ice cream, with 
different degrees of richness, frozen puddings, parfaits, 
mousses, water ice sherbets, punches. All of these varie- 
ties with different flavorings and manner of molding give 
an infinite variety of beautiful creams and ices. 

Plain cream is sweetened, flavored and frozen. 

French cream is made with custard foundation, with 
cream added. 

Parfaits and mousses are whipped cream with or with- 
out eggs, frozen or packed in ice and salt. 

Sherbets are fruit juices with syrup and frozen. 

Punches are sherbets with wine added before or after 
freezing. 

In making ices and creams, an ice bag is valuable, made 
of white duck or canvas. 

Put in ice and crush with mallet. Use two parts ice 
and one part rock salt. 

Always scald freezer thoroughly before using, and al- 
ways wash and dry well after cream is taken from freezer. 

A new freezer, before being used, should be thoroughly 
scalded to kill any chance germs. It is a wise plan to add 
a little bicarbonate of soda — ordinary baking soda — to the 
scalding water. This, however, is a precaution which should 
be taken with any kitchen utensil before it is used. From 
then on the utmost care should be exercised to keep the 
cylinder of the freezer clean and dry, as rust is a worse 
enemy than germs. 

It is a mistaken idea that the texture of the cream de- 
pends upon the rapidity with which it is beaten. Turning 
the crank too rapidly at first makes an uneven grain, as 
also does any interruption during the process of freezing. 
During any pause some of the mixture of course, lies mo- 
tionless against the sides of the cylinder, and accordingly 
freezes coarser than the rest of the cylinder's contents. 
Start a slow, even pace, which you will be able to keep up. 

137 



BUFORD SHERBET. 

1 pint water. 1 lb. sugar. 

l^ lb. large raisins. l^ lb. figs cut fine. 

1/^ stick cinnamon. 3 cloves. 

3 oranges. 1 lemon. 

1 cup white grape juice. 

Boil water and sugar to syrup. Cut raisins and figs 
fine and put in earthen bowl. Pour over these the boiling 
syrup and let stand until cold. Remove cinnamon and 
cloves, add to syrup and other fruit the orange, lemon and 
grape juice; then freeze. 

PARFAIT. 
This delicious dessert is made in various flavors, but 
the foundation is always a boiled syrup, such as is used 
for icings, with the whites of eggs added. Boil one cupful 
of sugar and one-quarter cup of water into a syrup and 
pour over the well-beaten whites of four eggs. Beat until 
cool and then add one quart of whipped cream. Into this 
may be stirred any flavoring or crushed fruit desired. This 
is not beaten while freezing like ice cream and sherbet, 
but is packed in ice and salt until congealed. 

CAFE PARFAIT. 
Put the yolks of five eggs, well beaten, into a sauce- 
pan. Add three tablespoonfuls of sugar-syrup and four 
tablespoonfuls of strong coffee. Stir over a slow fire until 
it coats the spoon thickly. Turn into a bowl and beat until 
cold and light. Fold in a pint of cream, whipped stiflf. Turn 
into a covered mold and pack in ice and salt for four hours. 

MAPLE PARFAIT. 

6 egg yolks. 2 cups whipped cream. 

% cup maple syrup. 

Beat yolks very light, add maple syrup, cook in double 
boiler until makes a thick coating on spoon. Pour into 
mold and whip light with wire egg whip; when cold, fold 
in cream and one cup caramel powder, and pack in salt and 
ice. Candied fruits may be added in same way as powder. 

MOUSSE. 

Mousse differs from parfait in being made of pure cream, 
sweetened and flavored, with sometimes a little gela- 

138 



tine added instead of syrup and the whites of eggs. An at- 
tractive way of serving mousse or parfait is to freeze it in 
layers with cake and fruit. In the bottom of the mold place 
a layer of sponge cake an inch thick. Over it spread the 
cream mixture, and on this a layer of fruit. Place another 
one of cake and so on for two layers of each, making six 
in all. Pack the mold and freeze. 

Unlike the ice cream freezer, the bucket in which mousse 
or parfait is frozen must have a layer of ice and salt placed 
in the bottom. On this is set the empty mold and the ice 
and salt are packed half-way up its sides to chill. The 
mold is next filled with the mixture to be frozen, protected 
from the air and from any chance salt by a piece of oiled 
paper and tightly covered. The packing is then completed, 
and it is set away from two to four hours. The correct 
proportions of ice and salt to be used in packing mousse or 
parfait are one part of salt to two parts of ice. 

In unmolding, remove from the packer and wipe away 
carefully all traces of the salt. Then immerse the mold in 
hot water for a few seconds and invert upon a platter. 

MACAROON BISQUE. 

2 cups sifted macaroon 1 teaspoon granulated gela- 

crumbs. tine. 

6 tablespoons powdered 1/4 cup juice from the cherries 

sugar. 1 cup orange juice. 

1 cup maraschino cherries 1 pint whipped cream. 

cut fine. 

Place sifted macaroon crumbs and the cherries in a 
bowl, add cherry and orange juice, let stand overnight, dis- 
solve gelatine in a little cream and add it with the sugar 
to the crumbs. Beat cream very stiff and slowly add the 
other mixture. Put in mold, pack in ice and salt, let stand 
several hours. Decorate with macaroons and serve. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

Make one pint of boiled custard. When cold, add to it 
one quart of sweetened cream. Flavor with vanilla. Brown 
three dozen macaroons and crush them fine. Stir these into 
the mixture and freeze. This cream will be found an agree- 
able change from the more ordinary flavors. 

139 



DELICIOUS CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

6 yolks. 1 pint sweet milk. 

1 cup sugar. 1 pint double cream, 

1/^ box granulated gelatine. whipped. 

Served in marcaroon cups. 

Soak gelatine in one-fourth cup cold milk, beat yolks 
very light, add sugar and beat well. Put milk in double 
boiler, and when hot add sugar and yolks gradually, then 
stir in gelatine, cook until thick, stirring all the time. When 
taken from fire, strain and whip until cool. Fold in whipped 
cream. Flavor with two tablespoons of vanilla. Line mold 
with lady fingers or macaroons and pack in ice to congeal. 
Put in mold without cake and when ready serve in cups 
made of macaroons. It will require five to each cup, one 
for bottom and four around, fastened together with candy 
syrup. 

DELICATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

4 egg whites. 'bhiuba suoodseiq^; z 

2 tablespoons gelatine. 'uiBajD p9ddiqA\ :^uid x 

1/2 cup sweet milk. 

Beat eggs stiff, add sugar and whiD well. Dissolve gela- 
tine in milk on stove and when cool enough whip into eggs 
and sugar. Set in ice to congeal. Line bowl with lady 
fingers if liked. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

From three pints of milk, the yolks of five eggs, one 
cupful of sugar and three tablespoonfuls of flour make a 
boiled custard. Flavor with vanilla just after taking off 
the stove. When ready to freeze add one pint of rich milk 
and the whites of three eggs beaten stiff. When it begins 
to freeze — that is, when it is stiff enough to hold up the 
fruit — add one pound raisins, one-half pound pecans, one- 
half pound almonds and one-fourth pound maraschino cher- 
ries with juice, cut into small pieces. 

GOOD AND CHEAP SHERBET. 
Make a quart of lemonade with three lemons and one 
cupful of sugar. When partly frozen add one pint of cream 
sweetened and flavored with vanilla. In making the lemon- 
ade the sugar should be dissolved over the fire in part of 
the water. This is true of all sherbets. They have a finer 

140 



grain if the sugar used is put over the stove in part of the 
liquid just long enough to dissolve it thoroughly. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Whip one pint of cream. Dissolve one tablespoon of 
granulated gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of water. Scald 
another pint of cream and add one cupful of granulated 
sugar, being careful that it is thoroughly dissolved. Stir 
in the gelatine and flavoring. Strain. As soon as cold, put 
into the freezer, and when partly frozen add the whipped 
cream. Pack away to season for one or two hours before 
serving. This is one kind of Philadelphia cream. 

When the recipe for a frozen dessert calls for whipped 
cream, it should be drained, after it has been beaten stiff 
and before adding to the mixture, by putting into a colan- 
der and letting the milk drip through ; otherwise there will 
be more moisture than desired. If double cream, twelve 
hours old, is used, it should beat stiff without leaving any 
milk. 

A popular way of serving vanilla cream is with a sauce. 
The following chocolate sauce for ice cream is recommended 
for its fine, smooth consistency: 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Put over the fire and cook to a thick syrup two cupfuls 
sugar, one cupful of milk, two tablespoons grated chocolate, 
or the same amount of cocoa and one tablespoon of butter. 

FRUIT SYRUPS FOR ICE CREAM. 

Add any kind of crushed fruit to a syrup made of two 
cupfuls of sugar to one cupful of water. Nuts and raisins 
may be used with the crushed fruit if desired. 

GRAPE FRUIT ICE. 
(One-half gallon.) 

2 grapefruits. 2 cups sugar. 

3 lemons. 2 pints water. 

Squeeze juice from lemons. Put sugar, rind and one 
pint of water on fire, let boil five minutes; when cool, add 
rest of water and fruit juices. Put in freezer, and when it 
begins to freeze add the shredded grape fruit. Serve in 
glass cups with maraschino cherry garnish. 

141 



WE THREE SHERBET. 
Dissolve over the stove three cups of sugar in three 
cups of water ; when cool into this put three bananas, three 
oranges and one pineapple. Add the juice of three lemons. 
When it begins to freeze add the whites of two eggs, well 
beaten. Put the bananas through the colander and chop 
the other fruits fine. 

MARSHMALLOW ICE CREAM. 
Cut one-half pound of marshmallows into small pieces. 
Roll very fine one dozen macaroons, first drying them in 
the oven, if they are fresh. Dissolve two tablespoons of 
gelatine in three tablespoons of milk, stirring it over the 
fire. Add this to the mixture. When ready to freeze, beat 
in three pints of cream and flavor with vanilla. After it 
is partly frozen stir in one-half pound of chopped raisins. 

PEPPERMINT CANDY ICE CREAM. 
One scant pound of old-fashioned peppermint sticks, 
crushed very fine, and dissolved over the fire in one pint of 
milk. When cool, add to this three pints of cream. Beat 
five minutes with an egg whip and freeze. The cream will 
be a delicate pink. 

CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW CREAM. 
Make a custard of the yolks of four eggs, one and one- 
half cups of sugar and three cups of milk, one-half cake of 
chocolate broken in pieces. Put the chocolate and milk on 
together in a double boiler, stir until the chocolate is melted, 
pour over the eggs and sugar, cook two or three minutes. 
Cool, add one tablespoon of vanilla, one quart of cream; 
when it begins to freeze add one-half pound of marshmal- 
lows cut in two or three pieces. 

NUT CREAM. 

l^ lb. almonds blanched 1 small bottle maraschino 

and minced. cherries. 

14 lb. English walnuts. 1 quart double cream. 

V2 lb. pecans. II/2 cups sugar. 

1/2 cup milk. 
Dissolve sugar in milk. When cool add the whipped 
cream, flavor with one teaspoon vanilla and fold in nuts. 
When it begins to freeze add juice of cherries. 

142 



ICE CREAM CROQUETS. 
Grind and brown one cup almonds, one cup dry sifted 
macaroons. Dish up spoonfuls in the frozen cream, roll in 
the nuts, having them spread on platter. Serve immedi- 
ately. Pretty and good. 

PINEAPPLE AND COCOANUT CREAM. 

1 grated cocoanut and milk. 1 quart cream. 

1 cup sugar. 1 can pineapple cut fine. 

Put cocoanut milk and juice of pineapple on fire with 
cup sugar and let dissolve. When cool add cream. When 
partly frozen add pineapple and cocoanut. 

DELICIOUS GINGER ICE CREAM. 
Scald one quart milk with two tablespoons flour or com 
starch, one-half cup sugar, and stir into hot milk. Stir con- 
stantly until mixture thickens, then let cool, stirring occa- 
sionally for ten minutes. Beat three eggs, add a few grains 
salt and one-half cup sugar. Mix well, add a little of the 
hot mixture, and when well blended stir into it the rest of 
the mixture. Stir and cook until the eggs seem "set," then 
strain. When cold, add one pint whipped cream and begin 
to freeze. When nearly frozen, add one cup preserved gin- 
ger cut very fine and mixed with cup of white grape juice. 
Finish freezing and let stand an hour or more to ripen. 

PLUM PUDDING ICE CREAM. 

3 eggs. 1/4 cup chopped dates. 

1 cup sugar. 14 cup each of candied cher- 

1 cup whipped cream. ries, pecans, raisins and 

2 cups sweet milk. figs, all chopped. 
1 ounce sweet chocolate. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

To the beaten yolks add sugar and gradually stir in 
milk that has been brought to scalding point — add melted 
chocolate and cook whole several minutes. Remove from 
fire and add stiffly beaten egg whites, beating in. When cold 
add whipped cream. To the chopped fruits add a small 
quantity of sugar and allow to simmer a short time on 
stove. Allow to cool. Pour first mixture into freezer and 
partly freeze — remove dasher, add fruit mixture and nuts, 
pack in ice and salt and let stand three hours. Serve with 
whipped cream on top and decorate with candied fruit. 

148 



BEVERAGES 



SPECIAL BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

One gallon berries, three pints water. Let boil a few 
minutes, strain; to two cups juice one cup sugar. Season 
with cinnamon, allspice and cloves. Cook until well sea- 
soned. 

TEA. 

A clean tea pot, stone or china, boiling fresh water and 
good quality of tea are essential in making a refreshing, 
wholesome drink. Use all green, all black or a mixture of 
the two, the latter is preferred. 

Pour boiling water in pot, cover for a moment, pour out 
and put in tea, allowing one teaspoon to each cup, add to 
this the boiling water, let steep five minutes. Serve at 
once, or if needed for ice tea, pour off into a clean vessel to 
cool. When a large quantity is needed make strong and add 
fresh boiling water. 

In making ice tea, sweeten while hot, add lemon juice 
and rind is good. Let stand until seasoned and strain. If 
two lemons are needed, squeeze out juice and mash rinds, 
put in boiling water. To one cup add one cup sugar and 
make syrup. Nice way to get lemon flavor and also eco- 
nomical when they are expensive. 

RUSSIAN TEA. 

Slice of lemon added to one cup of sweetened tea. Rus- 
sian tea is served hot. 

BULGARIAN TEA. 

1/2 doz. lemons. 1 can pineapple chunks. 

1 gal. tea. If berries are in season, use 

2 cups sugar, or more if 1 qt. strawberries, if not 

needed. V2 doz, oranges sHced. 

1 bottle maraschino cher- 
ries with juice. 
Put rinds, sugar and one pint water on to boil in a 
syrup, add to tea. If strong, add more water. Pretty 
served at afternoon tea. 

144 



GRAPE JUICE. 

Pull one gallon grapes from stems, pour over three pints 
water. When it boils strain through cloth, sweeten to taste, 
return to fire and cook ten minutes. Strain and seal in 
bottles. 

COFFEE. 

Always use a good brand of coffee. It should be finely- 
ground to get the best strength. There are several ways 
of preparing coffee for table. Some prefer boiling, others 
dripped, and some use percolator. One tablespoon to each 
cup is the usual proportion. 

BOILED COFFEE. 
One tablespoon to each cup and one for pot, one table- 
spoon cold water, one spoon egg white. Put coffee and egg 
in pot, set on back of stove, pour over cold water, mix, then 
pour the amount needed of boiling water. Boil three or 
four minutes. Then set again back of stove, settle with a 
little cold water and steep a few minutes before serving. 
Serv'e with warm milk. 

PERCOLATED COFFEE. 
Use same amount. Put coffee in perforated cup with 
water in bottom. Set on stove, and when it begins to per- 
colate let it stay on fire fifteen minutes. I would advise 
using a percolator, for the coffee is much better. Always 
use care in keeping pot well cleaned and aired. 

DRIPPED COFFEE. 
Use finely ground coffee. Put coffee in strainer, same 
proportion. Set pot on stove, pour over boiling water. It 
is ready as soon as water drips through. 

CAFE AU LAIT. 
Use boiled coffee, mix half milk and half water. 

COCOA. 

2 cups boiling water. 2 tablespoons cocoa. 

2 cups milk. 1-3 cup sugar. 

Put milk on fire, leaving enough to moisten cocoa. Add 
cocoa to milk with sugar. Pour into this the boiling water. 

145 

(10) 



CHOCOLATE. 

1/2 gal. milk. V2 lb. unsweetened chocolate. 

2 cups sugar. 

Put milk on in double boiler, with chocolate and sugar. 
Let thoroughly blend. It will be more delightful if stands 
an hour before serving. Add vanilla if liked. Some use 
yolks, but it is not necessary to thicken it; after standing 
it will be thick enough. Serve with whipped cream. 

HOT CHOCOLATE FOR TWO. 

1 oz. chocolate. 1 cup boiling water. 

2 heaping teaspoons sugar. 1 cup hot milk. 

Cook until smooth the sugar, chocolate and water and 
add hot milk. 

Marshmallows are pretty served on cup chocolate. 

Meringues can also be used for decorations. 

Sugar does not dissolve readily in cold fruit juice or cold 
tea ; sugar syrup is better. 

LEMONADE. 

One-half lemon to each glass, two spoons sugar; better 
with sugar syrup. 

LEMONADE SYRUP. 

4 cups water. Juice 6 lemons. 

2 cups sugar. 

If rinds are good, wash and drop into boiling water. Let 
stand fifteen minutes. Boil all of the above into a syrup. 
Put hot in sterilized bottles, to be used for tea, lemonade 
and all drinks when this acid flavor is needed. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Eight cups of water, four cups of sugar. Boil and cool. 
Add to this six oranges, three lemons, one pineapple shred- 
ded, one box strawberries, two grape fruit, two quarts Apoli- 
naris water. Can be diluted to suit taste. 



146 



CANDY 

In making candy I always use granulated sugar unless 
other is specified. Candy must never be stirred when boil- 
ing. Cream of tartar should be added after syrup begins 
to boil. Butter should be put in when candy is almost done. 
Flavors are more delicate when not boiled in candy. 

PEAlSrUT BRITTLE. 

Put two cups of sugar in kettle and stir constantly. 
Have ready one cup of peanuts ; when sugar is melted, stir 
in peanuts and pour on marble. Almonds, pecans and all 
nuts can be used same way. 

FUDGE. 

3 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup cream. 

When sugar is melted add four or five tablespoons of 
cocoa. Stir and boil fifteen minutes. Take from fire and 
heat until creamy. Add teaspoonful vanilla. Pour on but- 
tered plate and cut in squares. 

To make marshmallow chocolate fudge add ten cents' 
worth of marshmallows just before pouring on buttered 
platter. 

GOOD BROWN SUGAR CANDY. 

Take three cups of light brown sugar and one cup of 
cream. Roil until nearly done ; drop in a lump of butter 
the size of a walnut. Try in cold water and when it rolls 
in a soft ball between the fingers and thumb, remove from 
the fire. Add nuts and beat until nearly cold. Pour in but- 
tered tins and cut in squares. 

DIPPED MARSHMALLOWS. 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup milk. 

One cup of caramel sugar poured into milk and sugar 
while boiling; when nearly done put in one tablespoon of 
butter. Let cook until it forms a soft ball ; take from fire 
and beat until cool. Dip marshmallows with a fork and 
put on oil paper. 

147 



MARSHMALLOW CANDY. 

Two cups sugar, one-fourth cup water, boiled until it 
threads. Beat into one-half box gelatine dissolved in one- 
half cup cold water. Beat until almost stiff, cut in squares, 
put in dish or square pan an inch deep. 

U. NO ALL MINTS. 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup water. 1 teaspoon mint extract. 

Cook until soft ball stage. Pour out on greased mar- 
ble. When a little cool work to a cream with wooden pad- 
dle; cut in small pieces. 

FONDANT MADE WITH EGG WHITE AND SUGAR. 

Break one white in bowl, add two tablespoons cold water, 
beat together until creamy, add to this one pound of con- 
fectioners' sugar sifted. Make a dough that can be han- 
dled. Have a little dry sugar to keep from sticking. Divide 
in portions, flavor to taste. Make into balls with a few nuts 
on top any shape desired. Roll in granulated sugar. Cut 
up any candied fruit, mix with fondant, cover with choco- 
late and cut in squares. 

PRETTY CANDY BOWLS TO SERVE HOMEMADE 
CANDY IN. 

2 cups pure granulated 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

sugar. 1 cup water. 

Put sugar and water, well stirred on fire; after it boils 
a few minutes, add vinegar. Have cup of ice water, and 
when syrup cracks and piles up in cup it is ready to be used. 
Color any delicate shade before taking from fire, but not 
until ready (or can be colored on marble). Pour out in 
small rounds on greased marble. Brush jelly glasses (in- 
verted) with almond or peanut oil. When candy can be 
lifted with knife, take up, press out with fingers and form 
over glasses. Move on glasses often and if cooked right, 
it will stand alone in a few minutes ; shape edges any way, 
but the work must be done fast. A little practice will be 
required to make success. 

148 




INDIVIDUAL CUP. 



DATE LOAF. 

2 cups sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup milk. 1 cup chopped pecans. 

1 pkg. dates seeded. 

Cook until soft ball stage. Beat until creamy. Roll in 
damp cloth. Slice when cold. 

CANDY PUDDING. 

2 pints granulated sugar. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 
1/2 pint water. 1 tiny pinch of soda. 

Mix all together, put on low fire until thoroughly blended 
and sugar dissolved. Then cook quickly until brittle in cold 
water. Pour on greased marble, when cools a little pull 
like taffy until light. Work into this one cup grated cocoa- 
nut, one cup seeded and chopped raisins, one cup almonds, 
one cup pecans cut in pieces. Make into ball, put in a mold 
lined with oil paper. Serve on platter, cover with melted 
chocolate. 

NOUGAT. 

4 cups granulated sugar. V2 lb. almonds. 

3 egg whites. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
1/2 cup corn syrup (white). 1 teaspoon lemon. 

Put sugar, water and syrup on to cook, beat eggs, and 
when syrup cooks until a soft ball in cold water, begin beat- 
ing slowly into eggs, little at a time. Beat until thick, add 
almonds and pile on buttered dish. Any nuts may be used ; 
hickory nuts are good. 

CARAMELS. 

2 cups brown sugar. 3 tablespoons butter. 
1 cup cream. Vo cup chocolate. 

Let cook until thick, add butter and chocolate. Remove 
from fire and beat a long time before pouring out in greased 
pan. 

DATE, GINGER AND NUT CANDY. 

Remove stones from dates, chop equal measures of can- 
died ginger, hickory nuts, pecans or almonds. Mix with 
fondant, enough to hold together. Fill open space of dates. 
Press together, roll in coarse granulated sugar. 

149 



PRALINES. 

3 cups light brown or white 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

sugar. 1 cnj) nuts — pecans best. 

1 cup sweet milk. If v/hite sugar is used cara- 

3 tablespoons maple syrup. mel i/o cup. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Put sugar and milk on to cook and stir constantly. 
When begins to boil, add maple syrup and cook until soft 
ball stage, add vanilla and butter, remove from fire. Let 
stand few minutes. Beat until creamy, add flavoring and 
nuts. Drop by spoonfuls on oil paper. 

FRENCH FONDANT. 

The variety made from fondant is limitless. It is made 
with white and maple sugar. The white may be colored 
any shade and any flavor can be made; also any fruit or 
nuts can be used to give variety and delicious quality to 
this foundation. The fresh fruits, strawberries, grapes, 
cherries and also French fruit can be dipped with the melted 
fondant; marshmallow, nuts, candied orange and cherries 
are good coated with this candy. We give below the prin- 
ciple that will be best for beginners: 

2 cups sugar. 14 teaspoon cream tartar. 
2-3 cup water. 

Put sugar and water on fire and stir until begins to boil. 
Take out spoon and with brush dipped in cold water wash 
down sides to keep the sugar crystals from forming. Cover 
and boil five minutes. Put in cream tartar, cook until soft 
ball stage, by thermometer 238 degrees. When ready, turn 
out on marble slab dampened with water. Let stand until 
a dent can be made on surface. Then work the candy back 
and forth with wooden spatula to a vviiite, smooth, creamy 
paste; knead with hands all together and put in earthen 
bowl, cover closely with damp cloth, put in cool place 
twenty-four hours. The fondant is not perfect when gran- 
ular. Water can be added and cooked again. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

2 cups sugar. 2 tablespoons gelatine soaked 
1 cup water. in 7 tablespoons water. 

3 small pinches cream tartar. 

Put on to cook, when sugar threads beat in gelatine and 
when hard spread on marble with powdered sugar. 

150 



PENOCHE. 

3 cups light brown sugar. 1 cup milk. 

1 cup granulated sugar. 2 tabi spoons butter. 

1 cup chopped nuts. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Cook sugar and milk until it forms soft ball between 
the fingers, when tried in cold water. Do not stir after it 
begins to boil. Remove from fire, add butter, letting it 
melt on top. When the outside of the saucepan feels cool. 
begin to beat the candy, adding nuts and flavoring. Beat 
until creamy and turn into buttered pan. If beaten too 
long, it will harden before it can be turned into the pan; 
in this case, a little more milk may be added to dissolve 
the sugar and made over; when cool, cut in squares. 

MARY ELIZABETH'S BUTTER SCOTCH. 

6 tablespoons Nectar drip 2 tablespoons water, 
molasses. 1 tablespoon butter. 

5 tablespoons granulated sugar. 

Cook until cracks in cold water. Drop in rounds on 
greased marble or wax paper. 

DAISY CREAM CANDY. 

3 pints sugar. 3 teaspoons cream or rich 

1 pint boiling water. milk. 

1 teaspoon vinegar. Pinch salt. 

Cook until forms a hard ball in cold water. Turn out 
on greased marble, flavor with vanilla or cinnam.on. Pull 
until it begins to look creamy; cut in pieces with scissors. 
Make cream icing, and when taken from fire add cocoanut 
and drop on wax paper. 

COCOANUT CREAM CANDY. 

1 cocoanut — milk and V/o lbs. sugar (3 cups). 

meat. 
Put on sugar with milk from cocoanut; after it boils 
ten minutes add grated cocoanut and cook five minutes. 
Beat until it is cold, pour out on greased marble and cut 
in squares. 

BROWN SUGAR CANDY. 

2 cups brown sugar. ^ 1 tablespoon vinegar. 
2 cups corn syrup. 

Cook until strings, then cool and pull. 

151 



PICKLE 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLE. 

Take six pounds green tomatoes, slice tomatoes and 
sprinkle with salt and let stand over night. Squeeze out 
of brine, soak in fresh water several hours. Then boil to- 
matoes in strong ginger tea for half hour. Drain out of 
tea and take one quart good vinegar, three pounds white 
sugar, one ounce cinnamon sticks, one-half ounce cloves, one- 
half ounce mace, add two pounds seeded raisins, one and 
three-fourths pounds homemade citron cut in small squares. 
Boil all together one-half hour, put in quart jars and boil 
syrup until thick and pour over pickle. Seal tight. 

CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Take cucumbers out of brine, soak in cold water until 
fresh. Change the water often, then scald in weak vinegar, 
putting into this a light tablespoon of alum to two gallons 
cucumbers. Let stand in vinegar until cool. To one-half 
gallon strong vinegar add two cups brown sugar, one ounce 
allspice, one-half ounce black pepper tied in a bag, a little 
garlic or onion. Heat well and pour over pickle. 

SWEET PICKLE— PEACH. 

To nine pounds peeled peaches, three pounds white su- 
gar, one and one-half pints strong apple vinegar, cloves 
and spice to taste. Cook peaches until can be pierced with 
straw. Put peaches in jar and cook syrup until thick, pour 
syrup over peaches and seal. 

SWEET PICKLE— PEAR. 

7 lbs. peeled pears. V2 oz. cloves. 

3 lbs. sugar. V2 oz. stick cinnamon. 

1 pint apple vinegar. 1 oz. allspice. 

Cook pears until done, then pack in jars and cook syrup 
thick and cover the pears well. Seal tight. 

152 



PICKLED ONIONS. 

One gallon small white onions, peel, cover with brine, 
made one-half pound salt to one gallon boiling water. Pour 
over onions and let stand twenty-four hours. Drain, cover 
with boiling water with a teaspoon alum. Stand several 
hours, drain off water and put onions in jars and cover with 
boiling vinegar, spiced to taste with whole black pepper, 
allspice and cinnamon. 

HOTCH POTCH PICKLE. 

1 large head firm cabbage. 1/2 dozen white onions. 

2 dozen cucumbers. 4 green peppers. 
2 dozen green tomatoes. 

Chop all ingredients fine, cover with one-half pint salt, 
stand all night, put in a bag to drain. Cover with weak 
vinegar, let stand twenty-four hours. Next morning drain 
off vinegar and to every gallon pickle put one-half pound 
sugar, one dozen cloves, one ounce white mustard seed, one 
ounce celery seed. Put all in preserving kettle with strong 
vinegar and let boil one-half hour. 

VIRGINIA MIXED PICKLE. 

1 peck green tomatoes. 6 pods green pepper. 

1 firm head cabbage. 1 pint horseradish. 

12 white onions. 1 small bottle mustard dress- 

2 dozen cucumbers. ing. 

Put on board and chop with large knife. Mix all well 
together and put in granite or stone bowl. Sprinkle a pint 
of salt over all, let stand over night, put in bag to drain 
well. Then pour over weak vinegar. Let stand over night. 
Then press out all the vinegar. Take two pounds light 
brown sugar, one gallon strong apple vinegar, one ounce 
celery seed, two ounces tumeric, two ounces white mustard 
seed, small bottle mustard dressing. Boil pickle slowly for 
three-fourths hour, put in jars and cover with the vinegar. 
Seal tight. 

SWEET PICKLE— WATERMELON. 

Pare the green and pink from rind, cut in slices or 
squares. Put six pounds rind into weak alum and salt wa- 
ter. Let stand twenty-four hours, drain and boil in clear 

163 



water until tender, then cook in a syrup made of three 
pounds of sugar, one gallon apple vinegar, one ounce cinna- 
mon bark, one-half ounce cloves, three or four pieces mace. 
Boil until clear and tender, put in jars and cover With syrup. 
Seal tight. 

CHILI SAUCE NO. 1. 

V2 peck ripe tomatoes. 3 tablespoons salt. 

4 onions. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

3 pods green pepper. 1 teaspoon allspice. 

4 cups vinegar. 1 teaspoon nutmeg. 
4 tablespoons brown su- 1 teaspoon cloves. 

gar. 

Put spices in bag. Run tomatoes, onions and peppers 
through chopper. Boil all together until thick. Put in jar 
and seal tight. 

CHILI SAUCE NO. 2. 

V2 peck tomatoes. V2 tablespoon cloves. 

2 red peppers. 4 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon nutmeg. 4 large onions. 

3 cups vinegar. 1 tablespoon allspice. 

2 tablespoons salt. 

Peel and chop fine tomatoes with onions. Add spices in 
bag. Boil all together until thick. 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

1 quart tomatoes. 1 tablespoon cloves. 

1 tablespoon salt. 1 tablespoon mustard. 

1 tablespoon pepper. 1 quart vinegar. 
1 tablespoon allspice. 

Let simmer two or three hours ; seal in bottles or jars. 



GOOD CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Buy loose cucumber pickle, slice, put layer of cucumber 
in jar, thick layer of brown sugar, a few pieces of onion 
sliced thin, another layer of cucumbers, sugar and onion 
until jar is filled. Pour over this vinegar enough to cover; 
white mustard and celery seed add to flavor. Let stand 
until well seasoned. 

154 



DELICIOUS MIXED PICKLE. 

1 quart green tomatoes. 2 large onions. 

1 quart red tomatoes. 1 small head of cabbage. 

2 bunches celery. 2 ripe cucumbers. 
2 red sweet peppers. 

Chop all together and add one-half cup salt, let stand 
until morning and then add two pints vinegar, two pounds 
brown sugar, one teaspoon mustard and one teaspoon black 
pepper. Cook until done and seal. 



PRESERVES 



In making preserves and jellies use the best granulated 
sugar. Select the best fresh fruit, not over ripe. There 
are several ways of making preserves and all are satisfac- 
tory, but the easiest and quickest way is to cook fruit and 
sugar together, cooking always a small quantity at one time. 
Put in glass jars, cover with melted paraffine and seal tight. 

In making jelly of oranges and apples you can add stoned 
dates or raisins while jelly is cooling. 

BLACKBERRY JAM. 

Wash and cap berries, run through meat grinder, put 
on to cook with equal proportion of fruit and sugar. Cook 
rapidly from thirty-five to forty minutes. Put in jars and 
seal. Raspberry and strawberry jam are made in the same 
way. 

BRANDIED PEACHES. 

Pare clingstone peaches, one-half pound sugar to one 
pound fruit. Place in alternate layers in stone jar. Cover 
well with Maraschino cherries and juice and fasten top se- 
curely. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES NO. 1. 

Cap fresh ripe strawberries. To each pound of fruit al- 
low one pound sugar. Cook berries until they are tender. 
Put in jars and seal. 

155 



STRAWBERRY PRESERVES NO. 2. 

To three pounds of berries add three pounds sugar. Set 
on very low gas flame or back of range until sugar melts. 
Then boil very rapidly for fifteen minutes, take from fire, 
let cool and put in jars. Cover with melted parafline and 
seal. 

All small fruit and berries can be made the same way. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

Pare and cut in half, use pound for pound of sugar and 
fruit. Cook until peaches are tender. A few stones dropped 
in peaches while boiling adds to flavor of peaches. Pears 
and apples can be made the same way. 

GRAPE MARMALADE. 

Wash and pick grapes from stem. Put on to cook with 
enough water to nearly cover. When tender run through a 
colander. Use equal proportions of pulp and sugar. Season 
with spices if liked, cook until thick. Put in jars and seal. 

WATERMELON OR CITRON PRESERVES. 

10 lbs. melon rind. 1/2 oz. alum. 

10 lbs. sugar. 1/2 cup salt. 

1 cup cinnamon bark. 7 quarts water. 

V41 lb. ginger root: 

Peel melon rind, cutting off green and pink, cut in any 
shape desired. Put into one gallon Vv-ater, adding salt and 
alum, and let stand until brittle. Drain and put in vessel. 
Put on with enough water to cover, ;^dd ginger, cook until 
tender. Make sirup of sugar water and cinnamon. Drain 
the rind and add to the sirup with ginger. Cook until sirup 
is thick, from thirty minutes to one hour. Put in jars, let 
cool, cover with paraffine and seal. 

156 



JELLIES. 

To make jelly from any kind of berries or fruit put fruit 
on to cook with water enough to nearly cover. When tender 
enough to mash well, put in cheese cloth or flannel bag and 
strain. Dip bag in hot water before straining. To every 
cup of juice use same amount of sugar. Put juice on stove; 
heat sugar; when juice boils about twenty minutes add 
sugar. When this boils again skim and try some in saucer. 
If cooked in smaller quantities it jellies quicker and is a 
better color. Put jelly in glasses, cover with melted paraf- 
fine or paper dipped in alcohol. 



CANNING 



Always select perfect fresh fruit and vegetables for this 
purpose. To keep the color and flavor of the fruit is espe- 
cially necessary. Always use utensils that will not dis- 
color the fruit. Also wooden spoon for stirring or handling 
fruit when in hot water or sirup. 

All canned fruits should be put up boiling hot in jars, 
wrapped in paper. Put in a cool, dark place. It is well to 
have your jars filled with hot water, rubbers in place, tops 
in perfect condition, sealing wax and all other necessary 
things ready for work. 

HOW TO CAN TOMATOES IN GLASS. 

Select fresh, ripe, firm tomatoes. Grade for ripeness, 
size and quality. 

Blanch — Place tomatoes in wire basket or cheese cloth 
bag, dip them into boiling water for one minute or until 
skin breaks. 

Cold Dip — Plunge them into cold water as soon as they 
are taken from the hot water. The cold dip makes them 
easier to handle, separates the skin from the pulp and coag- 
ulates the coloring matter so it stays near the surface, giv- 
ing them a rich red color. Cut out the core before remov- 
ing the skin, as there is less danger of breaking the skin. 

Sterilize jars, tops and rubbers. Pack tomatoes whole. 
In quart jars add two level teaspoons of two-thirds sugar 

157 



and one-third salt. Strain soft tomatoes, add one cup of 
juice. Place on rubbers ; see thatthey fit up close. If using 
Mason jars, place screw top on lightly, that the air may 
escape when heated. If using Economy jars, put the cover 
in place and place the clamp on. If E. Z. Seal Jars, put the 
cover in place and leave up the spring clamp. 

Processing — If you have no canning outfit place a false 
bottom in a lard stand or deep kettle. This may be made 
of poultry netting or laths, fill canner with cold water and 
place in jars, do not let water come above the neck of jars, 
bring to boiling point or 212 degrees, then boil hard for 
thirty minutes. A wire basket or bucket that will fit in 
boiler will add much to the convenience, large holes should 
be cut in the bucket, the jars can be lifted out more easily. 
Throw a bath towel over jars when lifting them from boil- 
ing water. Screw top on tight at once, press down clamp 
of E. Z. Seal. Place away in a cool, dark place. Do not 
place them close together or in a warm room, as they will 
hold the heat and continue cooking. A steam cooker may 
be used instead of hot water ; both if preferred. — Virginia P. 
Moore, State Agent in charge of Girls' Canning Club, from 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

TO CAN CORN. 

One cup water, eight cups corn, one teaspoon salt, two 
teaspoons sugar to every quart corn. Mix thoroughly salt, 
sugar, water and corn. Place tops on loosely. Do not scrpw 
tight. Steam as tomatoes, allowing four hours in all. Steam 
three hours and then screw on top firmly and let steam an 
hour longer, adding more hot water if necessary. 

Always can corn very soon after it is pulled ; within an 
hour is advisable. Select the firm, full grains before they 
begin to harden, as this is the period of greatest sugar con- 
tained. Husk and brush silks off with a stiff brush. Cut 
grains with sharp knife, scrape lightly, put in jar until full. 

Corn, peas and lima beans are very hard to keep. For 
this reason it is better to cook an hour each day for four 
successive days. Loosen tops before each cooking. After 
each steaming screw top tight again. 

158 



STRING BEANS. 

String beans and soak in cold salt water in proportion 
of one teaspoon salt to one quart water. Let stand fifteen 
minutes, restringing if necessary. Beans may be broken or 
kept whole. Then tie in cheese cloth bag, scald in boiling 
water for five minutes, plunge into cold water so as to 
handle. Pack jars tight, fill with clear cold water, put on 
rubbers, seal well and cook as tomatoes for fifty-five min- 
utes. 

Lima beans, peas, succotash and okra can be canned by 
the same process. 

PEARS, PEACHES AND APPLES. 

Cut firm peaches in half, also pears and apples. Make 
a sirup, fill jars and steam as tomatoes, using one pound 
sugar and one pint water; make sirup and pour over fruit 
while warm. Steam fifteen minutes. 

For all small berries and fruit use same process. They 
require less time in steaming. 

LEFTOVERS. 

Many dainty dishes can be prepared with cold meats, 
vegetables and other things if we would only make a study 
of these little things. It is astonishing also how much we 
save in making all of the good things we have serve a 
double purpose. If we have steak, the bones and trimmings 
make delicious soup. Put on with water, the stock can be 
made, and if we do not need it today, it may help out to- 
morrow. If the steak should be tough and a portion left 
over, grind, add a little grated onion, lemon juice, put in 
pan, run into oven and season with a little butter. 

Stale bread crumbs are suitable for bread puddings, 
dressings and fillings for scalloped dishes, omelets, griddle 
cakes, etc. Dried crumbs are prepared from crusts and 
small pieces of hard bread dried in a cool oven until a light 
brown. Roll thin on a pastry board or put through a meat 
grinder. Sift crumbs. Use them to cover articles of food 

159 



cooked in deep fat. Keep dried crumbs in jars, tie pieces of 
muslin over jars and keep in a dry place. Whole slices of 
stale bread may be used for toast. 

When fried or stewed corn is left from a meal, mix with 
a little flour, sweet milk and egg. Drop in a little hot but- 
ter and fry brown on each side. Good for breakfast with 
crisp bacon. 

When pieces of broiled or fried bacon are left it can be 
ground or mashed and folded in an omelet, or put on toast 
with sauce. 

When yolks are left it is nice to saute in butter, turning 
over several times until well done. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Serve hot on small rounds of buttered toast. Be 
careful to keep them in shape. ' 

Another nice way to use yolks when left from dishes re- 
quiring only whites. Have water on stove boiling, drop in 
yolks either in shell or just as they are. After cooking, 
thoroughly drain, run through ricer and bake with white 
sauce in oven, using one cup for eight or ten yolks. 

Potatoes can always be utilized, and they make pretty, 
wholesome dishes, combined with cheese, onion and thick 
white sauce, also eggs. 

MACARONI ITALIAN. 

Left over macaroni and cheese can be made Italian by 
pouring over it strained tomato juice, a little onion, salt and 
cayenne. Stew until well blended. 



160 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Page. 

Introductory Instructions 5-6 

Dish Washing 6 

Hints to Housekeepers 7 

Suggestions 7-8 

French Words in Cooking 8-9 

Weights and Measures 9-10 



Cereals 11 

Eggs 12-16 

Cocktails _-l 16-17 

Soups 18-22 

Bread to Serve with Soups 23 

Fish arid Oysters 24-27 

Entrees 28-31 

Meats 32-34 

Poultry and Meats 35-43 

Croquettes, Sauces, Etc. 44-50 

Sandwiches 51-55 

Box Lunches 55-56 

Breads 57-64 

Salads and Dressings 65-80 

Vegetables 81-91 

Combination Vegetables, Meat and Eggs 92-95 

Fruits 96-98 

Cake-Making - CC-100 

Directions for Making 100-115 

White Cake 100-102 

Yellow Cake 102-103 

Pound Cake 103 

Chocolate Cake 104-105 

Fruit Cake 105-106 

President's Cake 107 

Spice Cake 107-108 

Sponge Cake 109-111 

Small Confections 111-115 

Icings, Fillings, Etc 116-120 

Puddings and Custards 121-136 

Frozen Desserts 137-143 

Beverages I 144-146 

Candy 147-151 

Pickles 152-154 

Preserves 155-156 

Canning 157-159 

Leftovers 159-160 



" 8 88 



I 



•^ 



•>V^'> 

























A^ » '^SJK^* Xi^A^ *M/y^*. ^^ aV ^i^^^k'" ^ 







* 4^ 



^•^^ 



r.* ,c> 



.^\--. 








'^..^'^ 











-^•s-i^ 



^^^* %'-?^'> V--'> %'^5^V*\ 









^- <5<^ 






*t«.d« 












a5^^ .^ 



^^ V 






•^^i'' 



^■& 






A^ .' 



^<^ / 



«5°^ .' 



^^^.^ .' 



/k- ^^, A^ •^f^Sfi^'. "^.J 



^ 'V 

) •!•«- ^ 






^~ .r 



-^9^ 



LV*^ 












•i«k -' 



iPr. 










L*^ c»l«* >^ 






<r s' 



0^ r'^^'^c 



■^" 



'^^.^■« 



C" ♦ 



HECKMAN __ 
BINDERY INC. |S 

;-S^ 1988 



N. MANCHESTER 
INDIANA 46962 














