15 







500 WAYS TO PLEASE 
A HUSBAND 



(!l0tnpUmrnta of 
Qlije UrabtttQ ^(rrl;attta of ICQnn. MaBBatifixetttB 



-vt 



^ 




A HAPPY FUTURE 

is assured to those nvho 
commence their married 
life with a Savings 
Account. It provides 
for emergencies which 
are hound to arise at 
times in every life. 



The Central National Bank 

solicits your account 
and will pay you 
interest compounded 
quarterly. You can 

start an account 

with one dollar 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 
"ullfr ^aust for ^rrutrr" 

and now — 

the next thing is to fit up the Home. 

We can help you do that and are well 
fitted to offer Service. 

Our store is filled with a carefully se- 
lected line of furniture, rugs, draperies — 
in a word, everything necessary to furnish 
your home. 

Everything is up to date and every ar- 
ticle is selected with the view to giving the 
buyer lasting satisfaction. 

If you intend to start with a small apart- 
ment or a large house we can offer sugges- 
tions and show you things suitable for it. 

If you want to pay for your goods at 
once, well and good, if not, we can ar- 
range the payments to suit your ideas. 

Won't you come in, look around and see 
what we have to offer both in Service and 
Merchandise? 



W. B. GIFFORD 

Home Furnisher 97-99 Market St. 

CASH OR PAYMENTS 



)CU565570 



CONTENTS 



Matrimonial Information 

Announcement Cards 11 

Best Man 11 

Bridal Attendants 7 

Bridal Bouquet P 

Bridal Gifts 5 

Bridal Veil 9 

Brides Cake 9 

Dan Cupid 13 

Groom's Costume 11 

Hints to the Bride 13 

Honeymoan 13 

Music 7 

Orange Blossom 11 

Rice 13 

Slippers and Shoes 13 

Wedding Anniversaries .... 13 

Wedding Breakfast 11 

Wedding Cake 

Wedding, Church 7 

Wedding, Church (private) 7 
Wedding Expenses-the Bride -5 
Wedding Expenses-the family 5 



Wedding Expenses-the Groom 5 

Wedding Gown 9 

Wedding, Home 7 

Wedding Ring 9 

Vogue The; Simplicity .... 5 

Recipes 

Bread & Rolls 51-53-55 

Cakes & Cookies . . 73-75-77-79 

Chafing Dishes 57 

Candy 89-91 

Eggs 49 

Fish 31-33-35 

Griddle Cakes & Waffles . . 87 

Meats 23-25-27-29 

Pies 67-69-71 

Preserves, Pickles-Jellies 81-83 
Puddings & Desserts 61-63-65 

Salads 43-45-47 

Sauces, Fruit & Meat 85 

Soups 17-19-21 

Vegetables 37-39-41 

Cooking Time Table 41-93 

Household Hints 95 



ALL THE WORLD LOVES A LOVER 

And all the world loves to help the lovers 

Wants to see them started out in life with 

Those many little home comforts that lessens the day's 

Burdens and add cheer to the house 



For that reason these home i 
usual inl 



prove both a pie 



:hants here present special offerings of 
t to all young couples. 

are and economy to patronize them. 



Copy i^litfd by 

R. H. GREENLAW, Publisher 



ITEM BUILDING 



W.4KEF1ELD, MASS. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 




**J^treComci5 rijc ^iitu:" 



'OUR WEDDING PHO I OGRAPHER 
shnuld he ihoveii u iih a^ much care a.- the 
bouquet. The flowers arc perishable; but 
your wedding photograph - who knows 
how many generations will cherish and 
reverence ii r J* Do not have any regrets. 
1 elcphone ti r appointment. For evening 
\\ eddings we have artificial light, which is 
better than daylight. 



Joseph Henry Govch, (^^ d](ar^i Sireei T'l'ph" 



Matrimonial Information 



WEDDING EXPENSES— (The Family) 

The father and mother of the Bride assume all the costs and re- 
sponsibilites in connection with the suitable celebration of her wedding. 
The specific expenses and duties may be enumerated thus: The en- 
graving, addressing and posting of the invitations or announcement 
cards, every detail of the Bride's dress, the music, the flowers and 
awning at the church, the carriages that convey the bride and brides- 
maids to the church and the reception or breakfast following the 
ceremony. 

WEDDING EXPENSES— (The Groom) 

The fees for the marriage license, clergyman and sexton of the 
church are paid by the groom. The clergman's fee is entirely de- 
pendent upon the generosity and financial position of the groom, 
from $5 to $25 being- the average amount. He also must provide the 
wedding ring, the bride's bouquet, the bouquet for the brides-maids 
and, if he desires, neckties and gloves for the best man and ushers. 
Souvenirs in the form of sleeve links or scarf pins should be given the 
best man and ushers. The groom must also provide the carriage in 
which he and his bride drive away from the ceremony. 

WEDDING EXPENSES— (The Bride) 

It is the duty of the bride to supply the maid of honor and brides- 
maids with souvenirs of the occasion, small testimonials of her 
gratitude and affection in the form of bracelets, brooches, neck-chains 
or similar trinkets, all of which should be alike and suitable for con- 
spicious use at the wedding. She is also expected to furnish all 
buttonieres for the ushers. 

BRIDAL GIFTS 

Prompt and grateful thanks and acknowledgement should be 
made by the bride, with a personal note, immediately upon the re- 
ceipt of each gift. 

SIMPLICITY— (The Vogue) 

Simplicity in dress, in the menu off'ered at one's table, in one's 
costume, is no longer a mark of poverty or a thing for the sidewise 
glances and covert remarks. Fashion has set its approval on many 
homely and inexpensive customs and the bride-to-be and her doting 
family need no longer strain every financial nerve in order that their 
favorite's wedding may equal in pomp and display the most elaborate 
of her friends' marriages. In no social affair should the keynote of 
simplicity be so consistently striven for as in a modern wedding. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Don't Forget the 

Limousine, Mr. Groom 






UT^^^ 














{ 


Call 5 5 45 5 and be assured 
of quick, reasonable, and 
courteous service — and a 
beautiful car. ^ It will 
mean a lot to vour bride, 
so gi\e her the best there is 


Moore 


"■Best of Luck and Happiness" 
RoBBiNs Motor Car Com pa 


NV, hic. 



A CHURCH WEDDING 

The bride and her maids assemble in the vestibule. As the 
wedding march peals forth, the ushers walk, two by two, followed by 
the bridesmaids in similar order. Behind these moves the bride lean- 
ing on the arm of her father, immediately preceded by her maid of 
honor, who walks alone. At the chancel steps, the ushers and the 
bridesmaids break ranks, one half to the' right and the other half to 
the left, thereby forming a crescent. At the foot of the chancel 
steps, the bride is met by the groom and thus she is led between two 
lines of bridesmaids and ushers, her maid of honor on the left, her 
father behind her, to the clergyman for the ceremony. 

THE HOME WEDDING 

A home wedding follows the form of the church ceremony, the 
wedding procession forming at the top of the stairs, the bride on the 
arm of the one who is to give her away, and preceded by maid-of- 
honor and bridesmaids. The groom, best man and ushers, as in 
a church wedding, do not form a part of the procession, but are 
grouped where the ceremony is to take place. 

CHURCH WEDDING— (Private) 

To many the church wedding appeals with great force. The 
leiigious and sacramental nature of the ceremony is emphasized with- 
out the pomp and display of the public service. Such a wedding 
usually takes place in the daytime rather than in the evening. 

MUSIC 

For music, of course, no bride would feel "really married" with 
out the Lohengrin or Mendelssohn Wedding March. A pretty ar- 
rangement is as follows: 

PROCESSIONAI Bridal March (Lohengrin), Wagner. 

"O Perfect Love" (played softly during ceremony), Joseph 

Barnley. 
RECESSIONAL— Weddhui March. F. Mendelssohn Bart- 
holdy. 
During the reception it is perfectly fitting, however, to have any 
light popular music played, or the music may be dispensed with en- 
tirely at that time. 

BRIDAL ATTENDANTS 

In a church wedding the bride is attended by her maid-of-hono)- 
and from four to eight bridesmaids, though the number may be varied 
at will. Six is the usual number. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



SANBORN 

The 'Photograp/n 



studios: 

2) CENTRAL SQUARE 



The pidures ot the 

bride, as a matter 

of record, 

play an important pa 

ofthe 

wedding ceremony. 




+»—.«-„ 


Call Up Lynn 671 

and let us suggest how to 
have your pictures made 

Highfst Qua/in Combined '.nth MoJeratr Price 


7 


I 











THE WEDDING GOWN 

There is nothing in the world more surrounded with glamour an.l 
the halo of sentiment than a wedding gown, nor is there anything 
more beautiful. A lovely symbolism has always clung to the idea oC 
the wedding gown and the wedding wreath. Into these have always 
been woven the thought of purity, dedication, richness, beauty, and 
the promise of future years. On this one day, out of all the days of 
life, the body is to go clothed with the rich and sufficient symbols o? 
the spirit, and crowned as with the coronation of all the future years. 

THE BRIDAL VEIL 

Next in importance to the wedding gown is the veil. If it is of 
old lace, it should be treated in the simplest manner — allowed to hans.'; 
in natural undraped lines. Tulle or net may be fashioned into cap 
and bow, may be caught up with flowers, may cover the face, may 
float away beyond the train of the gown. One may use yards of its 
misty daintiness; whereas an .overdose of lace would ruin any effect 
of elegance or richness. 

THE BRIDAL BOUQUET 

After the reception, as the bride goes upstairs to change, it is 
customary for her to throw the bouquet to the bridesmaids and th? 
guests assembled beneath. The gii'l catching it is superstitiously 
supposed to be the next bride. It is a pretty idea for someone to 
take a few flowers from the bouquet before, that they may be made 
into one of the floral trays, now so popular, and thus be preserved 
for the sake of their association. 

THE BRIDE'S CAKE 

The bride's cake is the one that adorns the table — the one that the 
bride cuts — and should be of sufficient size to serve one piece to each 
guest. An old custom is to have this cake contain a thimble, a coin, 
and a ring. The superstition is that the young woman who by chance 
receives the slices containing these are respectively destined for a 
future of single blessedness, wealth or domestic bliss. 

THE WEDDING CAKE 

Wedding- cake is more or less sentimental and is usually a fruit 
cake which is cut into small pieces, at the wedding breakfast or re- 
ception and daintily boxed, to be given the guests as they depart. It 
is really a souvenir of the wedding to be "dreamed on." 

THE WEDDING RING FINGER 

An old idea of the wedding ring was that a vein ran directly to 
the heart from the third finger of the left hand and so the ring has 
always been placed on that finger. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 




(gifts 



The Best Man 
and Ushers 

Cuff Buttons 
Tie Clasps 
Waldemar (iolcl Cliaii 
Stick Pins 
Gold Knives 
Match Fobs 
Signet RiUBs 
(.i>:<I IVncils 



zAubrey 8. Zzvicl^r 

WATCHMAKER AND 
jE\^•ELER 

RiU'AIRING I\ ALL ITS BRANCHES 



114 Munroe Street, Lynn 

Tcli[,bonr Connexion 



tJMaid of Honor 

and 

Bride's Maids 



Beaded N'eckhu-es 
Beaded Hand Kat's 
Burettes 

Pendants 
Vinaigrettes 
Lorgnette Chains 
Pracelets 



THE GROOM'S COSTUME 

It is very important that the groom be correctly dressed, in fact 
he has far less choice in the matter of what he will wear than the 
bride. Black, grey and white are his colors and he dare choose no 
others, even in so small a thing as a cuff-link. For an afternoon 
wedding, that is before six o'clock, he wears a cut-away coat of black 
or dark grey. His trousers must match or be of finely striped grey 
material. His waistcoat may be white or, if he desires, match his 
coat. Gloves of suede and cravat — an Ascot or four-in-hand — are a 
soft pearl grey, while the shoes are either buttoned patent leathers or 
low-cut calf skins with grey spats. A silk hat and a white boutoniere 
complete the perfection of the scene. These conventions, like the laws 
of the Medes and Persians change not. 

After six o'clock the rules read as follows: the regulation swal- 
low tail coat and black trousers; a white silk or pique waistcoat and 
bow tie; a stiff white shirt, though today, with the plaited softer shirt 
in vogue, one may wear that tyle; a straight, winged collar; patent 
leather, buttoned shoes; white gloves and boutoniere. At no time 
should a groom's jewelry — scarf or cuff-links — show a color or a cut 
stone. Pearls or moonstones are the correct things for this occasion. 
The ushers and best man array themselves in the same fashion as the 
groom, though their cravats and flowers may be of different color. 

THE BEST MAN 

The best man is selected by the groom, usually an intimate friend 
or brother. Tradition and custom claim he shall be a bachelor but 
this rule is not imperative. 

ANNOUNCEMENT CARDS 

Announcement cards are employed when a marriage has been 
celebrated quietly in the presence of a few persons. 

THE WEDDING BREAKFAST 

The wedding breakfast is the name given to the refreshments 
which follow the wedding. A caterer usually supplies all the neces- 
saries for the wedding breakfast, even to the china and accessories. 

THE ORANGE BLOSSOMS 

These blossoms are always the emblem of prosperity as the 
orange tree is so beneficient as to bear fruit and blossom at the same 
time. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Your Wedding Luncheon 

Permit us to relieve you of all the 
care, worry and work of arranging 
your wedding luncheon and sup- 
ply you with food, ice cream and 
sei'vice on short notice. 



PRIVATE HOUSE WORK— TEAS— WEDDINGS- 
DINNER PARTIES A SPECIALTY 
Orders taken for Salads, 
Croquettes, Patties, Ice Creams 

FAVORS, PLACE CARDS AND CONFETTI 
Bride's and Wedding Cakes 

Telepho)ie Ordets Promptly Attended To 
Service to all parta of Massachusetts 




cylNDREW SCHLEHUBER^ 

INCORPORATED 

Ned L. Merrill, Pi-es. Chas. G. McGlone, Trc 

CATERERS, CONFECTIONERS, BAKERS 
153 Broad St. Tel. 4305-4306 



THE SYMBOL OF SLIPPERS AND SHOES 

From time immemorial, slippers and shoes have been thrown af- 
ter the departing bride and bridegroom, to bring them luck, as the 
saying goes, but in reality the slippers and shoes are symbols of the 
renunciation of the father's authority and the receipt of it by th^ 
bridegroom. 

THE THROWING OF RICE 

The custom originally came to us from China, where rice has 
been the staple article of food for centuries, and thus showering it 
upon the bride not only signified plenty and prosperity but was sup- 
posed to avert evil, as well. 

THE HONEYMOON 

The honeymoon originally came to us from an ancient time when 
the ardent bridegroom used force to take his luide from her resisting 
relatives. He carried her off to a secluded sjint and guarded her well 
until all hostilities had ceased and they could return in peace. 

DAN CUPID 

Dan Cupid, the Master of the Heart, has always presided at 
weddings from that long ago time in Grecian mytholgy when, un- 
beknown to his stern mother Venus, he stole away and wedded the 
fair Psyche. 

HINTS FOR THE BRIDE 

Don't nag. "Feed the brute." 

Smile often. Never cross him. 

I^augh at his jokes. Enjoy what he enjoys. 

Have meals on time. Never make fun of him. 

Eliminate fault finding. Overlook his faults. 

Live within his means. Stay at home occasionally. 

Elevate his mind. Jolly him along. 

Treat him with consideration. Interest yourself in his hobbies. 

Seem to approve everything he Agree with his political views. 

does. Invite his friends to the house 
Make him think he is having his frequently. 

own way. Always keep his clothes in order. 

WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES 

First— Cotton. Fifteenth— Crystal. 

Second — Paper. Twentieth — China. 

Third— Leather. Twenty-fifth— Silver. 

Fifth— Wooden. Thirtieth— Pearl. 

Seventh — Woolen. Fortieth — Ruby. 

Tenth— Tin. Fiftieth— Golden. 

Twelfth— Silk and fine linen. Seventv-fifth— Diamond. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Good Work Requires Good Utensils 

List of INDISPENSABLE ARTICLES needed to start housekeeping as 
compiled b\) a leading housekeeping authoritv 

LINEN & COTTON 

6 Guest towels | V2 Aoz. Sheets 


6 Linen dish towels 


% doz. Pillow cases 


6 Hand towels 


3 Blankets 


6 Bath towels 


2 Bed spreads 


1 Bath mat 


1 Silk puff 


3 Linen table covers 


2 Bureau scarfs 


1 Heavy silence cloth 


2 Linen centrepieces 


1 doz. Napkins, dinner size 


Luncheon set 


% doz. Napkins, lunch, size 
3 Tray cloths 


Lace draperies 


Sash curtains 


GLASS - EARTHENWARE 

6 Fruit jars (qt. size) 


GLASS 

% doz. tumblers 


6 Fruit jai-s (pt. size) 


Water pitcher 


Lemon squeezer 


Salt & pepper shakers 


Cake bowl (2-qt. size) 


Bottles for oil & vinegar 


2 Bowls (pint) 


Bowl for canned fruit 


2 Bowls (1-2 pint) 


Baking dish (1 qt.) 


SILVER 

V2 doz. Knives & forks 


Baking dish (1 pt.) 


Casserole 


% doz. Soup & tea spoons 


Molasses jug 


3 Tablespoons 


Butter jar 


Butter knife & sugar spoon 


Check these goods as y'ou acquire same from 

The p. B. MAGRANE Store, Inc 



CHINA 

% doz. Soup plates 
% doz. Dinner plates 
U dcz. Tea plates 
1/2 doz. Cups (tea) 
V2 doz. Cups (coffee) 
1/2 doz. Saucers (tea) 
1/2 doz. Saucers (coffee) 
V2 doz. Saucedishes 
1 Sugar bowl 
1 Cream pitcher 

1 Milk pitcher 

2 Bread plates 

3 Platters 

2 Vegetable dishes 
1 Butter dish 
1 Salt shaker 
1 Pepper shaker 


AGATE WARE 

Kettle with cover (4 qt.) 

Kettle with cover (2 qt.) 

2 Saucepans (pt.) 

Hand basin 

Colander 

Ro.'isting pan 

Coffee pot 




TIN WARE AND WIRE 

Biscuit tin 
2 Bread pans 
Measuring cups 
Gravy strainer 
Flour sieve 
Wire broiler 
Dish pan 
Draining basket 




WOODEN WARE 

Rolling Pin 
Bread board 
Chopping bowl 
Ironing board 
Spoons 




WOODEN WARE 

Scrubbing pail 

Broom 

Mop 

Floor brush 

Stove and scrub, brushes 




IRON AND STEEL 

Cast iron muflSn pan 
Cast iron Scotch bowl 
3 Common case knives 
3 Common 4-tined forks 
Chopping knife 
Bread knife 
Can opener 
Griddlecake turner 
Egg beater 
Ice pick 
Scissors 

Chain dish cloth 
Carving knife and fork 
Bread mixer 




ALUMINUM WARE 

Tea pot 

Tea kettle 

Double bailer 

Saucepan 

Frying pan (large & sinf,ll) 

Coffee Percolator 




Check these goods as you acquire same from 

The p. B. MACRANE Store. Inc 





MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Your Married Life 

will be Happy, Prosperous and Successful if you let us 
do your banking business. 

Commercial Checking Accounts 

Interest Accounts 

3 1/2 percent paid on balance of $100 or more with 
limited checking privileges. 

Savings Department 

Last dividend paid 4V> percent. Money goes on in- 
terest the first day of every month. 

Safe Deposit Vaults 

Your important papers and your valuables will be 
absolutely safe from burglary and fire in a box in 
our modern vaults. And just think, the co.st to you 
is less than one cent a day. Is it worth it? Call 
and let us show them to you. 



The Lynn State Bank 

The Home Bank for the people of West Lynn, 
Cliftondale and Saugus 

1 Mcdonough square 

Formerly Houghton Siju^re 

WEST LYNN, MASSACHUSETTS 



5oups 



BAKED BEAN SOUP 

BOIL two cups of cold baked beans in one quart of water for two 
hours, add one half can of tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste, 
simmer for one half hour longer, strain and add one tablespoonful 
butter blended with one tablespoonful flour. Strain and serve witn 
croutons. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 
One quart of the following vegetables cut small: Parsnips, car- 
rots, celery, onions and potatoes. Boil in one quart boiling water for 
one hour. Add one tablespoonful butter, salt, pepper and two table- 
spoonfuls tomatoes. 

TOMATO SOUP 

One pint tomatoes strained, one pint milk, one pint water, large 
pinch soda, season plentifully with butter, salt and pepper. Boil 
tomatoes with water about ten minutes, then add soda before milk. 

CORN CHOWDER 

Try out three or four slices salt pork in kettle, cut one small 
onion in pieces and fry in fat, being careful not to burn. Now take 
four or five medium sized potatoes sliced thin, and one can of corn, 
add layer of potatoes and corn and dash of pepper and salt until ail 
are used. Cover with hot water and cook until potatoes are tender. 
Before serving add one half pint of milk. 

DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP 

One pint of flour. Two rounding teaspoonfuls of baking flour, 
one half teaspoonful salt, soften with milk. Roll out and cut into 
shape. 

PEA SOUP 

Take the necessary amount split peas wanted, and put them to 
soak over night in soda water. Before cooking, strain and rinse, and 
put them on to boil until soft, then strain through a wire sieve, put it 
on to cook more and add a large onion, and pepper and salt to taste. 

POTATO SOUP 

Pare and slice six medium sized potatoes, boil in one quart hot 
water until tender, then add one quart milk, one teasppon butter, salL 
and pepper to taste. Let it come to the boiling point, serve at once. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Congratula tions ! 

Please allow us to congratulate 

you on this happy day. 

Our very best wishes go with you always. 

— Lynn Sewing Machine Stove. 



Start Housekeeping Right 

Secure Your Sewing Machine 

Early 

NOTE— "Sewing machhies will h- 
scarce and hard to obtain diiriny 
the coming year." 

All Makes of Sewing Machines 

NEW AND SECOND-HAND 

RENTED AND SOLD 

Liberal Credit Terms 
Lowest Cash Prices 

Lynn 
Sewing Machine Store 

Bargains Everyday 

14 SO. COMMON STREET 
LYNN, MASS. 



BROWN SOUP 

Allow one pound round steak for each quart soup required. Broil 
over a hot fire, browning well but not burning. Cut in small pieces, 
put in stewpan with a quart of water and tablespoon rice, cover, cook 
.'-■lowly an hour, then add one each, onion, carrot and potato sliced tine, 
add salt to taste, and water to supply the quart required, cook three- 
fourths hour, do not strain. Serve with bread. 

MACARONI SOUP 

Cook one-half cup macaroni, break fine in salted boiling water, 
when tender, drain and wash, add two or three cups hot stock, season 
with salt and pepper to taste, serve viath croutons. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

Boil one medium head celery in one quart stock till tender, strain, 
add one cup cream or milk, and a very little flour wet up with cold 
water, season to taste with salt, serve with croutons. 

CLAM BOUILLON 

One quart of clams removed from shells, one pint of water, two or 
three slices of onion. Boil ten to fifteen minutes and drain. Scald 
one pint of milk with one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour 
blended. Add to broth and season with salt, pepper and paprika. 
Serve in bouillon cups with spoonful of whipped cream. 

CORN SOUP 

One can corn, one quart sweet milk, put together in a kettle with 
a little hot water to keep it from scorching. Let it boil slowly for 
fifteen minutes or until the corn is cooked, season with pepper, salt 
and a little butter. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP 

Two quarts chicken stock, one teacup rice, one quart cream, one 
.small onion, one stalk celery, salt and pepper to taste. Wash rice, 
add chicken stock, onion and celery, simmer two hours, strain through 
a sieve and add seasoning and cream, which has been allowed to come 
to a boil. Milk may be used, if so, add a tablespoon butter. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

Boil a piece of beef, a quarter of a cabbage, six potatoes and 
four onions. Chop each vegetable separately. Boil the vegetables 
one hour slowly. Season to taste. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 




We Furnish the Home 
Complete 

To newlyweds who plan their home 
complete or for those who wish to 
add a few pieces of substantial fur- 
niture we offer unprecedented and 
unequaled assortment at all prices. 

FOUR FLOORS OF 

MEDIUM and HIGH GRADE FURNITURE 

TO SELECT FROM 

BeauHiul in desic/n a)id solid i)i construction 
Our fine fionifiirc irill last a life time . 

TOBIAS £^ GOLDBERG 

li'liere You can Purchase for Less 
46 MUNROE STREET 



MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

A quart can of tomatoes, three pints milk, a large tahlespoonful 
of flour; one of butter; pepper, salt and soda. Put the tomatoes on 
to stew adding- a teaspoonful of soda. Bcil mil'; in a double boiler 
except enough to mix with the flour. Add the cold thickened milk 
to boiling milk, and cook ten minutes. Add butter, pepper and 
salt, and then the tomato (strained). Serve immediately. 

JACKSON SOUP 

Three good sized potatoes pared. Three onions. Boil them 
together and put through a sieve, add one pint of milk. Heat all 
together, season with pepper and salt. 

SPLIT PEA BOUILLON 

One half cup of split peas, soaked over night. Cook until soft, 
sift, add one quart of milk, large tahlespoonful of butter. Season 
with salt, pepper and paprika. Sei-ve in bouillon cups with a spoon- 
ful of whipped cream. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

A shin bone of beef, four quarts of water; boil Ave hours, take 
out the meat and use it for mince meat. The next day skim off 
the fat and add four onions, three parsnips, three carrots, a little 
bunch of celery. Slice them thin and cook one houi-. Strain 
throufjh the colander. Have ready a tea-cup of milk, in which has 
been stirred three even table-spoonfuls of flour. Season with salt, 
pepper, and a half tea-spoon of curry powder. Cut the slices of 
carrots and parsnips in little dice. Put them in the tureen with 
little rings of macaroni. Boil the macaroni half an hour, in salted 
water, then cut in little rings. 

MUTTON SOUP 

Four pounds of mutton, four quarts of water, four heaping 
tea-spoonfuls of salt, one even tea-spoonful of pepper, two tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one small onion, two carrots, two turnips, one 
tea-cup of rice or broken macaroni. Boil the meat in the water two 
hours, then add the vegetables, all cut fine, and the seasoning and 
boil an hour and a half longer. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



"Send It To The Laundry" 



zA HOUSEWIFE 

is the business head of a home and 
in these days of conservation her 
time is too valuable to be wasted 
through the necessity of doing a 
washerwoman's work. 



A Good Habit to Form 

TRY OUR SEMI-FINISHED SERVICE 
YOU'LL NEVER GIVE IT UP 

Satisfaction Guaranteed 

Phone and Our Driver Will Call 
Phone 3515-4104 




Cheever 



Meats 



A 



SPANISH TOAST 

N economical dish for family dinner. One pound of Hambur 



steak, one cup bread crumbs, one egg, four small onions, pinch 
of salt. Moisten with milk and mould these ingredients into a round 
loaf. Set in a baking dish. Sprinkle with flour, salt and pepper. 
Pare four small onions and six tomatoes. Surround the loaf with 
these and cover with boiling water. Bake for an hour — or until 
onions are soft. Lift roast on serving platter. Thicken the tomato 
and onion gravy and pour over the meat. 

BEEF LOAF 

One and one half pound beef run through chopper, one cup crack- 
ers run through chopper, one cup milk, two eggs, piece of butter, size 
of an egg, one tablespoon salt, one scant teaspoonful black pepper, one 
teaspoonful poultry dressing. Put in bread tin and set in pan of hot 
water and bake one and one half hours. 

HOW TO ROAST BEEF 

Have a nice loin roast, salt it well and put on top a piece of suet 
about as large as a coffee cup, bind this on, and roast for one and one- 
half hours basting but very little. 

CREAMED CHICKEN 

Boil chicken in salted water till tender, remove from kettle and 
drain. Fry a few pieces salt pork and in this fat fry the chicken. 
Remove to a large platter. Make a cream gravy by pouring a pint 
of thin cream (or mere according to your chicken) into the spider 
containing the remains of the pork fat (not too much), and thicken 
with a little flour, mixed with cold water, salt to taste and pour over 
the chicken. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN 

Take a chicken, split it down the back, wipe with a damp towel, 
lay the chicken inside down in baking pan, spread with one-fourth 
pound butter, or two or three slices good pork and a bit of pepper : 
put a teaspoon salt and one-half cup water in pan, place in a hot 
oven and cover with another pan, or use covered pan, baste often 
for half an hour, then turn and baste often and bake another half 
hour. Thicken with gravy and add milk if desired. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



"A GOOD PRECEDENT TO FOLLOW" 

AS WE SERVED YOUR MOTHER WE 
WILL GLADLY SERVE YOU 

"Man is not so much the result of 
books, which he reads or the 
friends with whom he associates a^' 
the food upon which he is nour- 
ished." 



EVERYTHING FOR THE TABLE AT THE 

RIGHT PRICE 

16 DIFFERENT DEPTS. 



THE, BEST 

OF 

GROCERIES— MEATS— FISH— BAKERY 
DELICATESSEN— VEGETABLES— FRUITS 



J. B. BLOOD CO. 

LYNN MARKET SILSBEE ST. MARKET 



BREADED VEAL 

Beat one egg light, dip a slice veal steak in the beaten egg, then 
in bread crumbs; have a generous piece of butter melted in a warm 
spider, lay the steak in and cook slowly for half an hour, turn the 
steak once, be careful not to burn it. 

HAMBURGER STEAK 

Take round steak as much as desired, chop till a perfect mince, 
cannot be too fine, then add a bit of onion if desired, chopped fine, or 
£ bit of sage; season with salt and pepper to taste, make in flat balls. 
Heat your spider hot, put in some butter and fry balls till done. 
Serve with or without gravy. 

ROAST BEEF 

Have the bones or ribs removed at the market from four pounds 
of the sirloin beef, wipe with a dry cloth, make an incision from top 
side about half way thi-cugh, insert a piece of butter the size of ai: 
English walnut; put into a pan, place in a hot oven without salt or 
water, as both of these toughen the meat. Bake one hour, when done 
turn off a part of the grease which has escaped, add water enough 
to make the desired quantity of gravy, thicken, salt to taste. 

The bones that have been removed can be used for soups. 

BEEF STEW WITH DUMPLINGS 

Put beef into cold water, salt and boil until tender, slice in on 
ions, one turnip and potatoes, add a little I'ed pepper, and one-half 
cup rice if desired. Drop dumplings over the top and boil twenty- 
minutes. 

DUMPLINGS 

Two cups milk, a little salt, two heaping teaspoons baking pow 
der, flour enough to make a stiff batter. Drop the dumplings on top 
of a stew, being careful not to have enough water to cover them. 
Boil about twenty minutes. 

BOILED BEEF TONGUE 

Wash clean and put in a pot with water enough to cover, two ta- 
blespoons salt and a small pod red pepper. If the water boils away, 
add more so as to keep the tongue well covered. Boil until it can be 
pierced with a fork, take out and remove the skin. Serve hot or cold. 
Smoked or pickled tongue should be soaked in water over night, an.! 
cooked in the same way, omitting the salt. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



LOW 
PRICES 




No 

High Rent 

to Pay 



'hen a boy loves a girl. 

That's the boy's bii 
When a girl loves a boy, 

That's the girl's business. • 
When they get married, 

That's the minister's business. 
When they need new and Jnd hand farnitiire. 

Thai's my business! 

H. Kaplan 

New and 2nd Hand Furniture 

Complete House Furnisher 

Stoves Brass Beds Dressers Carpets Oil Cloth 

CASH or CREDIT 

24 Market Square, W. Lynn Boscobel Block 

Tel. 7670 Lynn 

Residence Tel. 1084- J Revere 



POTATO CRUST 

Boil and mash a dozen medium sized potatoes, add one good tea- 
spoon salt, two tablespoons cold butter and half cup milk or cream. 
Stiffen with flour sufficient to roll out; nice for tops of meat pies. 

CHIPPED BEEF 

Place chipped beef in a saucepan, add a little cold water to fresh- 
en it, when the water becomes hot, pour it off^, and add milk or cream, 
w hen it boils up thicken with a little flour and add a piece of butter. 
Pour into a dish in which a well beaten egg has been placed and stir 
well together. The egg may be omitted. 

BEEF PIE 

Fill a pudding dish half full small pieces boiled beef, with gravy 
enough to nearly cover the meat; make a good biscuit crust, roll about 
half an inch thick and cut into small biscuits, set them on meat unti! 
meat is covered. Bake about twenty minutes, or until biscuits are 
done. Serve with extra gravy. Veal or chicken is very nice. 

POT ROAST OF BEEF 

A nice brown juicy one and a nice brown gravy to go with it, 
and this is my way of cooking one. I find that the cheaper pieces of 
beef will answer. Place it in a flat-bottomed kettle and cook slowly 
until it is browned on all sides ; then add a pint or more of water, keep 
closely covered and cook until the meat is very tender. 

ROAST LEG OF LAMB 

Wash thoroughly in warm water, rub all over with salt, put in 
covered roast pan, pour over the top one-third cup vinegar, pour boil- 
ing water in the pan, roast gently for two or two and one-half hours, 
remove to a platter add boiling water to the dripping, thicken with 
flour wet with cold water, let boil up well, strain and serve. 

ROAST BEEF 

Select a loin or rib piece — the latter is the best — and pound it 
thoroughly before placing in the pan; pour a cupful of boiling 
water over it and sprinkle a little salt; have the oven well heated 
and baste frequently with the drippings after the juices have cooked 
out. Cook about ten minutes to a pound. When done it should 
be brown outside and a little red within. If the meat has an ex- 
cess of fat cover the fatty portion with a flour and water paste, 
which can be removed before fully done. Turn the gravy upon the 
meat after skimming ofl' the fat ; season with pepper and salt. Any 
attempt at basting before the juices commence running from the 
meat will have the eff'ect of toughening it. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



PRE-NUPTIAL AGREEMENT 

iSf it kunuiit bg tljcsr prrBrutii f/(«f 7, the under- 
signed, in consideration of the finest, sweetest. 
prettiest and most wonderful girl in the world 
a:;reeing to become my life long partner, I do 
hereby agree and promise to purchase for her 
a one pound box of Jackson's candies at least 

once a for a period of years as a 

slight token of my esteem and love. 

To be signed by the Groom 

Witness 

WE SERVE EVERYTHING THAT'S 
GOOD TO EAT 



In Our Quaint and Cozy Place and the Food is Excellent 



SPECIAL LUNCHEON 

11 AM till 6 PM 



Afternoon Teas 2 till 5 PM Dinner 6-9 PM 

A La Carte 11 AM till 9 PM 



Jfackson ;:) 

36 CENTRAL SQUARE 



VEAL LOAF 

Three pounds of raw veal, one-fourth pound of salt pork, chop 
fine, add one cup of fine cracker crumbs, two eggs, well beaten, two 
teaspoons of pepper, two teaspoons of salt, sage and a little mace. 
Bake two hours in a deep dish. 

JELLIED CHICKEN 

Bail thoroughly so that the bones will readily drop away from 
the meat, then return it to the water and keep there over night. 
Next morning chop the chicken into very fine pieces and to it add 
salt and pepper with a little butter if needed. Mix thoroughly and 
put in moulds to turn out after it has cooled and hardened. 

FRICASSEED RABBIT 

Cut up and disjoint the rabbit; put into a .^tewpan and season 
with cayenne pepper, salt and chopped parsley. Pour in a pint of 
warm water and stew over a slow fire until quite tender, adding 
when nearly done some bits of butter. 

BEEFSTEAK 

The only proper way to cook a beefsteak is to broil it on a 
light wire gridiron over a clear fire. When ready to turn, place it 
on a warm plate with a little butter, turning the cooked side down 
so that the juices may be saved in the plate, and not lost, as would 
be the ca?e were it turned upon the gridiron; return it to the grid- 
iion a^ quickly as possible, and as soon as the other side is cooked 
place it aj,ain upon the plate which be sure to have always wamn ; 
feason with pepper and salt to taste, adding a little butter. 

BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS 

This very popular dish necessitates the use of a frying pan upon 
which put the steak with a little suet, and add sliced onions which 
have previously been prepared by dropping into cold water; season 
with salt and pepper and cover tightly before putting upon the fire. 

FILLET OR FILET OF BEEF LARDED 

(This is the tenderloin, although the sirloin is sometimes used.) 
Trim oflf fat, tough skin, etc., and skewer into shape (round). Lard 
with salt pork. Dredge well with salt, pepper and flour and put 
without water into a very .small pan. Place in a hot oven thirty min- 
utes; in lower part ten, and then on upper grate. Serve with mush- 
room sauce or with potato balls. The shape of the fillet is such that 
the time required for cooking is the same whether it weighs two or 
six pounds. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



ASK ABOUT OUR 



Honeymoon Special 



WARDROBE TRUNK 



Large Assortment 




Highest Quality 



TRUNKS TRAVELING BAGS 

SUIT CASES BOSTON BAGS UMBRELLAS 

BRIEF CASES THERMOS BOTTLES 

AND NOVELTIES 

AT LOWEST PRICES 

It will pa^ you to se« us First! 



Lynn Luggage Shop 

The Quality Store 

92 Summer Street Opp. Blood's Market 

Tel. Lynn 5495 

Lynn, Mass. 



Fish 



SALMON LOAF 

ONE can salmon, one can peas, six rolled crackers (butter). 
Flake the salmon, put layer of cracker crumbs in deep dish, then 
layer of salmon, then layer of peas, and so on until all is used. 
Sprinkle bits of butter, add milk enough to moisten, have last layer 
crackers dot with butter, salt and pepper. Bake in hot oven half hour 

FISH SOUFFLE 

Make a sauce using one tablespoon each butter and flour, and one 
cup of milk, add one fourth cup fine bread crumbs and one cup of 
chopped cooked fish, then yolks of two eggs beaten thick, salt, paprika, 
onion juice to taste, and lastly fold in the white of one egg. Steam 
in small timbale moulds in hot water pan or put in a baking dish in 
hot water pan and bake twenty minutes. 

BAKED HALIBUT 

Take a piece weighing five pounds, lay in salted water for a little 
while, wipe dry, score the skin, put in pan in moderate oven and bake 
an hour, basting often with butter and water. When a fork will 
penetrate easily it is done. Should be fine brown color; make dress 
ing and bake with it; serve with butter gravy. 

STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH 

For a fish weighing four to six pounds take one cup of cracke'; 
crumbs, one saltspoon of salt, one saltspoon of pepper, one teaspoor 
of chopped onions, one teaspoon of chopped parsley, one teaspoon of 
capers, one teaspoon of chopped pickles. 

CREAMED LOBSTER 

Two cups rich milk or cream, scald, thicken with two tablespoons 
each of butter and flour, salt and pepper to taste, a dash of cayenne 
and two tablespoons chopped celery. Pour this over two cups finely 
chopped boiled lobster and serve. 

LONG ISLAND FISH BALLS 

Pick your fish fine and boil it with your potatoes, then mash fine, 
season to taste and stir in a well beaten egg or two. Drop from a 
spoon into hot fat, brown and take out with a skimmer. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



FISH 



Your GRANDPARENTS probably bought 
their fish from WILLIAMS. 

Your PARENTS most likely did so. 

We invite you to continue in the paths that 

HAVE PROVED best by EXPERIENCE. 



MEATS 



We have added a selection of the Choicest 
Meats that are produced to the high qual- 
ity of FISH we have always carried. 

You may now select both at the same time 
when you trade here 

Quality, and Service Always 
Prices Fair to You and Us 



JAS. FRANK WILLIAMS, Inc. 

Siureisor lo H'llliams ^'Bws. F.sh Co. 

SELLERS OF SE.^ SWIMMERS 

OYSTERS. CLAMS AND LOBSTERS 
2 13^2 17 UNION STREET 

'Phones 2S and 2g 



BROOK. TROUT 

Wash well in salted water; score a little across the back, oil it 
thoi-oughly with Lucca oil and broil slowly. Dish on a very hot plat- 
ter with Maitre d'Hotel sauce, or better still, with only fresh butter. 

BOILED HALIBUT 

A thick meaty piece is best for boiling. Tie up closely in a fish 
cloth (cheese cloth is excellent for the purpose), cook in boiling salt- 
ed water, thirty or forty minutes is long enough for a piece weighing 
three pounds. For this quantity of fish boil three eggs twenty min- 
utes and prepare a drawn butter gravy with butter, flour and boiling 
water. Remove fish to platter, pour over it the drawn butter and 
aarnish v.'ith the eggs cut in slices. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

One quart oysters, one pint milk, one-half cup butter, pepper and 
salt, and twenty crackers rolled fine; beat eggs, add butter, crackers, 
salt, pepper, milk, and lastly oysters stirred in lightly. Put in but- 
tered dish and bake forty minutes. Place another dish over them 
until partly done, then take off cover and brown. 

FISH BALLS 

One pint codfish picked fine, one quart potatoes sliced. Boil to- 
gether until potatoes are soft, drain, mash well, while hot, add butter 
size of an egg, and a dash of red pepper; when cold add two wel! 
beaten eggs; fry in kettle, in very hot fat. 

SCALLOPED FISH 

Pick any cold fresh or salt fish into small pieces. Take a pint 
of milk in a double boiler with a few slices of onion cut very fine, a 
sprig of parsley minced fine. Add a piece of butter, size of an egg, 
pinch of salt and dash of pepper. Then stir in two tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarch. Wet in a little cold milk. Let all boil up. Butter a 
baking dish. Add first a layer of fish, then cream, then a few crumbs. 
Repeat until all is used. Bake twenty minutes or until nicely 
browned. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



YOUR 

BRIDAL 

COACH 




I \\ hy be content to ride to and from 
the church, home, photographer 
or depot in an ordinary 
closed car r 

Use My Hi(rli-(/ass LJmousinc 

TERMS VERY MODERATE 



J. L. BELL\ ILLE 

120 FRANKLIN STREET 
Tel'phiiue Connexion 



SCALLOPED CODFISH 

Season one pint rich milk with a little salt and pepper. Put it 
over the fire and add a generous lump butter with a teaspoon corn 
starch rubbed into it. Let this boil up, then set it off, with a cover 
over it to keep warm. Put a layer of thinly sliced cold potatoes. 
Have ready a cup soaked and shredded codfish; put a thin layer of 
this over the potatoes, chop six hard boiled eggs (these must be boiled 
twelve minutes) spread a thin layer of egg over the fish. Now begin 
again with the potato and so on. Now pour the gravy over the whole 
and sprinkle bread crumbs over the top and bake fifteen minutes. 

"From Ocean and Lake, from River and Brook, 
We swim to thy bidding, Oh, capable cook!" 



NEW ENGLAND FISH CHOWDER 

Place in the bottom of kettle six slices of salt pork, one layer 
of tomatoes, one layer of onions, one layer of sliced potatoes, one 
layer of sliced fish, one layer of common crackers. Continue this 
with the exception of the pork until the desired quantity is ob- 
tained. Cover with water. Stew very slowly for two hours. 



DROPPED FISH BALLS 

One cup codfish, two large cups pared potatoes, two eggs, but- 
ter the size of an egg, pepper. Wash the fish in several waters, 
then cut into small pieces across the grain. Put the potatoes into 
a saucepan and the fish on top of them, then cover with boiling 
water and boil until potatoes are tender. Drain thoroughly and 
mash together until fine and light, then add the pepper, the eggs, 
well beaten, and the butter. Have a deep kettle of boiling fat and 
dip a tablespoonful in it and then take up a spoonful of the mix- 
ture. Drop into the boiling fat and cook until brown, about ten 
minutes. Be sure to dip the spoon in the fat each time a spoon- 
ful of the mixture is taken up, and do not crowd the balls in the 
kettle. 



PANNED OYSTERS 

Put one pint of oysters in chafing dish with two table-spoons of 
butter, add about half a tea-spoon of lemon juice, a dash of cayenne 
a little salt, and table-spoon of bread crumbs. Cook until the edges 
of the oysters curl. Serve on buttered toast. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



"The Store For Satisfaction" 

Congratulattons on 
gour ^^etitimg ! 

May many years of joy and peace 

Be yours, good health and fortune, too 
And may your regards for us increase 
As we are sure ours will for you. 

Complete line of 

Dry Goods — Fancy Goods 
Dress Goods 

Always the Latest Styles in 

Ladies' Waists Underwear 

Hosiery Skirts House Dresses 




Never Undersold in Lynn 




1 


iuoo^^ 


QTl 


U^ 


DRY GOODS STORES 
38 Market St., Lynn 



Vegetables 



BOILED ONIONS 

OKIN them thoroughly, put them to boil, when they have boiled a 
^ few minutes, drain, and put to boil again in cold water. Pour this 
away and again add cold water, bring to a boil and cook till tender, 
about an hour. Drain, season with butter, salt and pepper to taste. 
a little cream is a great improvement. Cooked in this way they will 
be very white and tender, and mild in flavor. 

SCALLOPED ONIONS 

Peel, slice and parboil six onions, in a suitable dish spread a thin 
layer cracker crumbs, next a layer of onions, dot with butter, and sea 
son with salt and pepper, if desired, continue with alternate layers, 
using crumbs last; dot the top generously with butter, and fill with 
niilk to reach the top and bake for one-half hour, or longer if oven i^ 
very slow. 

CREAMED POTATOES 

Pare and cut into cubes one quart of uncooked potatoes. Cook 
in boiling salted water, with a good sized onion sliced very thin, fif- 
teen minutes. Drain. Put two tablespoons butter in stew pan, then 
the drained potatoes and brown, turn often. 

When the potatoes are put on to boil, put one pint milk in double 
boiler and thicken with one tablespoon flour creamed with three table- 
spoons butter, salt and pepper. Pour over potatoes in stew pan and 
serve hot. ' 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER 

Cut up in fair sized "flowerets," let stand in cold water an hour, 
then put into boiling salted water. Boil an hour, or until tender; 
drain, and pour over it the following cream sauce: Scald two cups 
milk, blend together two heaping tablespoons butter, and one heaping 
tablespoon flour, add the hot milk slowly, stir while cooking until 
smiooth and creamy, salt to taste. 

FRIED PARSNIPS 

Boil until tender, scrape off skins and cut in slices. Put them in 
dripping pan with some roast beef when nearly done. Allow them t> 
brown. Serve in a separate dish. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES AND ONIONS 

In an earthen dish place alternate layers of sliced raw potatoe.s 
and onions, using one more layer of potatoes than onions. Add butter, 
salt and pepper. Cover with milk. Bake in a slow oven four hours. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Each Dav Will Hold a Wealth of Happiness 
for You 

If You Let Me Be 

Your Ice Man 



I am careful, considerate and accommodating, and 
in the delivery of ice you'll find me an expert. 

Each day sees me up with the dawn that I may give 
you the best possible service. Each night finds me tired 
but happy. I have served my customers and served 
them well. 

Of course you'll be pleased to know that the ice I 
carry is harvested and housed under absolute sanitary 
conditions and comes to you in a perfect state of purity. 

Always I recommend the Coupon System, because 
that saves you time, trouble and money. The book saves 
you money, — the system, time and trouble. Just ask me 
to tell you all. about it. 

Naturally I'm going to speak a good word for my 
Company, for it has given the people of Lynn. Swamp- 
scott and Nahant seven years of unexcelled service, and 
always goes the limit in helping me to please you. 

If you would like to have me call, just phone 703 or 
704 and tell the 



J\(^rt// Shore Ice Dclhciy Company 

J J J Union Slrt'ft 



ESCALLOPED CORN 

One pint can corn, one pint cracker crumbs. Arrange in buttered 
bailing dish in alternate layers, with plenty of butter, pepper, and salt 
on each layer of corn, have the last layer of crumbs, dot with butter, 
and fill the dish with milk until it nearly covers the contents. Bake 
in quick oven until well browned. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

Scoop out the inside of the tomatoes (six), take three-fourths 
cup bread crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, chop a small onion, add 
two tablespoons melted butter, and mix all together with a little milk 
or cream. Now fill your tomatoes and bake twenty minutes. 

ASPARAGUS SOUFFLE 

Boil one quart of asparagus, cut in inch pieces until tender. Cook 
one cup milk, one tablespoon butter and two tablespoons cornstarch 
until the mixture is thick and smooth. Then add the yolks of two 
eggs, well beaten. Stir in the asparagus, season with salt and pepper 
and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Put into a buttered 
baking dish and cook in a quick oven until delicately browned. Serve 
at once. 

GREEN CORN ON THE COB 

Take off^ the outside leaves and the silk, letting the innermost 
leaves remain on until after the corn is boiled, which renders the 
corn much sweeter. Boil for half an hour in plenty of water, drain, 
and after removing the leaves, serve. 

BROILED TOMATOES 

Cut in halves crosswise, large, smooth and not overripe tomatoes, 
broil over hot coals with cut side down, until brown. Remove to 
serving dish, and season each half with butter, sugar, pepper and 
celery salt. Set in hot oven a minute before serving. 

SAR.A.TOGA CHIPS 

Peel the potatoes carefully, cut into very thin slices and keep 
in cold water over night, drain off the water and rub the potatoes 
between napkins or towels until thoroughly dry, then, throw a 
handful at a time into a kettle or pan of very hot lard, stirring 
with n fork so that they may not adhere to the kettle or to each 
other. As soon as they become light brown and crisp remove 
quickly with a skimmer and sprinkle with salt as they are taken up. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Just the place to be married 



OUR PRIVATE RECEPTION HALL 
is not too large. It accommodates 
fifty couples. Pleasing, cosy, com- 
fortable. Dance and have a good 
time. Prices moderate — no chargf 
for hall. 



HOME WEDDINGS 

We can furnish Food, Linen, 

Silver and Table Decorations 

Chinaware and Service 



Fancy Bride's Cake - Wedding Cak( 

// 77/ St'rvi' i?i Your Home or Church 
forAuv Number of Guests 



T. J. SMITH 

'The 'T^cd/ Caterer 

12 UNIO.\ STREET, EAST LYNX 
Telephone 41 z 



FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Slice the potatoes lengthwise in slices about a quarter of an 
inch thick and let them remain in cold water for an hour or long- 
er; dry in a cloth and fry in hot lard. Before they become quite 
done and for the purpose of making them puff up, take them out 
with a skimmer and drain, returning them again to the lai-d and 
continuing the frying until done. Sprinkle with salt and serve hot. 

STRING BEANS 

String snap and wash two quarts beans, boii in plenty of water 
about fifteen minutes, drain off and put on again in about two 
quarts boiling water; boil an hour and a half, and add salt and pep- 
per just before taking up, stirring in one and a half tablespoonfuls 
of butter rubbed into two tablespoonfuls of flour and a half a pint of 
sweet cream. Or boil a piece of salted pork one hour, then add 
beans and boil an hour and a half. For shelled beans boil half an 
hour in water enough to cover, and dress as above. 



TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING VEGETABLES 

Potatoes, boiled 30 minutes 

Potatoes, baked 45 minutes 

Sweet Potatoes, boiled 4.5 minutes 

Sweet Potatoes, baked 1 hour 

Squash, boiled 25 minutes 

Squash, baked 45 minutes 

Green Peas, boiled 20 to 40 minutes 

Shell Beans, boiled % hour to 1 hour 

String Beans, boiled about 1 hour 

Green Corn, boiled 20 minutes to 1 hour 

Asparagus 15 to 30 minutes 

Spinach 1 to 2 hours 

Tomatoes (fresh) 1 hour 

Tomatoes (canned 30 minutes 

Cabbage 45 minutes to 2 hours 

Cauliflower 1 to 2 hours 

Onions 1 to 2 hours 

Beets 1 to 3 hours 

Turnips 45 minutes to 1 V2 hours 

Parsnips and CaiTots 45 minutes to 1 hour or more 



42 MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 

m Cf)r 5^ctitiing: Bouquet m 

"It is the custom that the groom supply iiAi 

the bride with her bridal bouquet." ^ 

GOOD ETIQUETTE HI 

Don't pav fancy prices for fancy flowers. OT 

Allow us to supply DO 

Your Bridal Bouquet M 

at a moderate price. ^ 

OUR SPECIALTY ^ 

Only the very best freshly-cut flowers used ^g 

^osTELLo^s ^rchvcay Flower Shop IK 



LENDING LIBRARY 

c^// the latest and best books of fiction 
obtained at once. 



WE SELL BOOKS QN ALL SUBJECTS 



HOME DECORATION - COOK BOOKS 
HYGIENE - MEDICAL -TRAVEL, etr 



BOSTON THEATRE TICKETS 

Box Office Prices - Best Seats Guaranteed 



Jerry Costello's Lending Library ^ 

333 Union Street — Downstairs — Telephone Lynn 1880 PJ 



Salads and 5aiad Dressings 



SARDINE SALAD 

SIX hard boiled eggs, minced fine, drain oil from box. sardines, re- 
move backbone, tail and skin, pick in small pieces, mix with eggs 
season with pepper and salt. Serve on bed of lettuce, plain, with 
vinegar or cooked mayonnaise. 

EGG SALAD 

Boil twelve eggs twenty minutes, when cold cut in irregular 
shape, and cover with the following dressing: Put one heaping table- 
spoon butter, and one rounded tablespoon flour, in a dish, stir over 
fire till hot and well mixed, then add one cup milk; while this is cook- 
ing, mix in a bowl one even tablespoon sugar, one even teaspoon salt, 
one heaping teaspoon dry mustard, a bit of pepper, one egg. one scant 
one-half cup vinegar. Stir all together, pour into your dish of flour, 
butter, etc., and cook until creamy. 

POTATO SALAD 

Slice cold boiled potatoes, and hard boiled eggs in equal quanti- 
ties. Make your favorite boiled salad dressing, and pour while hot 
over the salad. 

BUTTERFLY SALAD 

Remove all skin from two grapefruit and three oranges, cut into 
uniform slices across the fuit and each slice in half. Drain juice 
from one small can sliced pineapple and cut each slice in half. Make 
individual nests of shredded lettuce on serving plate, place two sec- 
tions of grapefruit in center with curved edges together, on these two 
of pineapple, above that two of orange. Place a strip of pimento down 
the center with a nutnieat at one end. Cover all with french dress- 
ing, or serve mayonnaise separately. 

A FRUIT SALAD 

Use canned sliced pineapple, place a slice on a lettuce leaf on in- 
dividual plates, on each slice place equal portions of celery, apple and 
orange, cut in small pieces, put a spoonful of dressing for fruit sal- 
ads in center and garnish with a maraschino cherry (either red or 
green). 



44 


MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 




To Mr. anc 

(•n„,l,nlHl 
cs. .1/,.,/ 
day erer p 
pleasures 
mosphere, 
other's hu 


iMr,.Neu.lyu,ea.: TFIEPHONE 

ifliitis (Did our sincere best tvish- i v m vr 
the anuiversary of your weddirifj LY N M 
lid you enjoying the delights and ONE-O-NINE 
af a quiet, peaceful, homelike at- 
each desirous of lighteyiina the 
■den. 




OUR ADVICE 

Learn to use the telephone freely 

and send the family wash to the 

Laundry 




WET ROUGH FLAT 
WASHING DRY IRONING 

Sent Home Damp Ready to Iron All Flats Ironed 

The Hardest Work in the Household 
Why make women do it? What man would do it? 

Why Not Start Married Life Right And Send 
It All To 

Lynn's Fastest Growing Laundry 

With Slowest Rising Prices 

Send your first week's wash here; 
make home a home, not a laundry 

VICTORY LAUNDRY COMPANY 

Plant: 153 PLEASANT STREET, LYNN 

Quick Calls Telephone 109 Prompt Deliveries 



CABBAGE SALAD 

Cream % cup butter, add the yolk, then the white of an egg, add 
also two tablespoonfuls sugar and % teaspoonful each salt, mustarr! 
and paprika. Then pour on very gi-adually one half cup hot vinegar. 
Cook over hot water until the mixture thickens slightly, and let cool 
before stirring in a generous pint of finely shredded cabbage. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Shred with the fingers cold baked chicken and mix it with half 
the quantity of finely cut celery. Moisten well with mayonnaise 
dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

SHRIMP SALAD 

One can of shrimps. Wash shrimps in cold water and drain. 
Remove intestinal veins and break in pieces. Arrange on nests of 
lettuce leaves. Slice pimentos and put several slices on each salad. 
Serve with boiled salad dressing. 

SALAD DRESSING 

Put one cup vinegar in a double boiler and heat thoroughly, whilo 
this is heating mix one teaspoon mustard, three tablespoons sugar, 
one teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon white pepper, one level table- 
spoon flour, yolks of three eggs beaten, one-half cup melted butter, 
one cup cream. Next add beaten whites of three eggs, pour hot vine- 
gar over these ingredients, then return to double boiler and cook to 
a custard. 

HARLEQUIN SALAD 

One beet, one carrot, one potato, boil and cool, cut in small dice 
(do not chop), tear fine some crisp lettuce leaves, mix lightly together 
with vegetables, moisten with cream or mayonnaise salad dressing, 
place a spoon of the mixture on the small tender leaves of the lettuce, 
arrange on salad dish, and serve very cold. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Cut up into small pieces the white meat of the lobster. Mix well 
with mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce. Decorate with slices 
of hard boiled eggs and the lobster claws. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



A Bank Account 

is the Corner-stone of a 

Happy Home 



Start Saving 
Nozcjf 



Money deposited in our hai 

grou's fast. 

Money goes on interest 
on day of deposit. 

Interest payable monthly. 



Lynn Safe Deposit ^ Trust Co. 

"J^Xarket Street., Cor)ier Sum iiicr J- j- J> Lynn, Mass. 



CHEESE SALAD 

Line each flute of small fluted molds with strips of canned pi- 
mento. Soften one-half level tablespoon of gelatin in one-third cup 
of cold water. To the dissolved gelatin add one-half cup generous 
measure of grated cheese, stir until thick. Whip one cup of heavy 
cream season with one-fourth teaspoon of salt and paprika (or to 
taste). Add the cheese mitxure and use to fill the molds, chill and 
serve on lettuce leaves with salad dressing. 

CHIFFONADE DRESSING 

Mix together two tablespoonfuls each of finely chopped parsley 
and sweet Spanish peppers, one teaspoonful finely chopped onion, 
two hard boiled eggs finely chopped, one teaspoonful salt, one half 
teaspoonful black pepper, one fourth teaspoonful paprika, five ta- 
blespoonfuls olive oil, two tablespoonfuls vinegar. Let it become 
very cold, stir well, and serve on lettuce. 

SALAD CREAM 

Two raw eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, eight tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, one half teaspoonful of mustard put in a bowl over 
boiling water and stir until it becomes like cream. Pepper and salt 
to taste. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

The foundation of the salad consists of the white meat of the 
chicken and hard-boiled eggs, all cut into neat dice-shaped pieces 
and mixed with very tender celery, also cut in small bits. Dress 
with mayonnaise and sprinkle with a mixture of nuts, broken fine. 
Brazil, pecan and filberts are the usual mixture. 

COMET SALAD 

Soak one-half box gelatine in one-half cup cold water five min- 
utes. Add one-half cup mild vinegar, the juice of one lemon, one 
pint boiling water, one-half cup sugar, teaspoon salt, strain, and 
when beginning to set, add one cup finely shredded cabbage, two 
cups celery cut fine, one-fourth can sweet red peppers finely cut. 
Turn into mold and chill, serve on tender lettuce leaves with may- 
onnaise. (Very nice) 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



T I J Js(J) S 



e 

T) 

I 
s 
o 

■B 

u 

K 
s 

ir 
I 
c 
K 



Harry M. Curtis 



m 



There is nothing richer or sweeter than 
good music. Music keeps the mind pure ; 
it is refreshing; it is inspiring. Without 
music life would be drudgery. 

Evfi tithhnj i)i the musical line. 
Fjiiios ]'irtrohis Mtisic Smal! 
Wares. 

Have you selected your store? Choose 
one that is reliable, one that takes a per- 
sonal interest in you. Let us help you. 



Harry M. Curtis 

G. A. R. Building, 55-60 Andrew St., 
Lynn 



S M A L L U \iRE S y.. ^MV S I C 



Eggs 



VENETIAN EGGS 

FRY ill chafing dish one tablespoon butter, and one tablespoon 
minced onion, add one cup strained tomato with a little sugar 
and salt, three tablespoons cheese, cut fine, three beaten eggs. Serve 
on toast or wafers. 

CHEESE OMELETTE 

Mix to a smooth batter three tablespoonfuls of flour with half a 
pint of milk. Beat up together four eggs, a little salt and one-fourth 
of a pound of old cheese grated. Add these to the flour and milk and 
mix all, beating briskly for several minutes. Put three ounces of 
butter on a frying pan, and when it is boiling hot pour in the mixturi- 
and cook to a nice brown on both sides, turning carefully. Serve 0:1 
a hot dish. 

PUFFED EGGS ON TOAST 

Beat to a stiflF froth as many fresh eggs as you wish to use, toas! 
the same number of slices of bread, and butter them. Spoon a beat- 
en white onto each slice, having a little open space in the center foi 
the yolk which must not be broken, brown gently in the oven and 
serve immediately. 

STUFFED EGGS 

Boil the eggs until hard, when cold, take off the shells, divide the 
eggs lengthwise in halves, remove the yolks, crumble them in a bowl, 
adding salt, pepper, mustard and a little melted butter. When all are 
well mixed, fill the hollows of the whites virith the mixture and serve. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Put one-half cup milk in a frying pan. When hot, pour in six 
eggs previously broken in a dish, cook slowly, stirring constantly so 
that the eggs will be evenly done. Sea.son with pepper and salt, and 
serve hot. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH CHEESE 

Four eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half saltspoon pepper, 
one-half cup milk, two tablespoons grated cheese. Beat the eggs- 
lightly, cook in omelet pan, stirring all the time until the eggs are 
firm but soft. Serve at once. 

BOILED EGGS 

Put the eggs into boiling water and boil, for a soft egg three 
minutes; for a hard one five or more. 



50 MEN'lION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Mrs. Newlywed : 

Read This! 

W^'E take it for granted that the ques- 
tion of establishing a home of your 
own is uppermost in your mind at this time. 
Have you the necessary funds for this 
purpose? If you have not, you should cali 
at the LYNN CO-OPERATIVE BANK and 
find out how it can be arranged. 

This BANK was established under laws 
formulated especially for that purpose, 
therefore we are in the best position to ad- 
vise you how to proceed. It makes no dif- 
ference how moderate your circumstances 
may be, we will be pleased to advise you. 

You have got to create a home of some 
kind, either by boarding, renting or own- 
ing. Why not show some independence b.v 
owning your home now, and enjoy it while 
paying for it? You will be surprised how 
easy it can be done if you have the pluck 
to start it. 

Come to our office and talk it over with 



ICgnn (En-nprrattu? Sank 

Siiiuu. jHass. 



Bread, Biscuit and Rolls 

"To make the stuff of life both light and well, 
Inquire within, this oracle will tell." 

BRAN BREAD 

TWO cups bran (Dr. Johnson's), one cup flour, one half cup mo- 
lasses, one teaspoonful soda, one and one half cups milk, pinch 
salt, handful raisins. Bake in moderate over about three quarters 
of an hour. 

BROWN BREAD 

One cup Indian meal, one cup rye, one cup Graham, one half cup 
molasses, two and one half cups sour milk, two tablespoonfuls soda, 
one teaspoonful salt. Steam four hours or more. 

MILK BREAD 

To a quart of warm new milk, add a Fleischmann's yeast cake 
which has been dissolved in a little luke-warm water, and a tablespoon 
melted butter; stir into this a pint of sifted flour, a dessert-spoon su- 
)?ar and half a teaspoon salt; beat well, and set to rise. When light, 
work in flour enough to make a firm dough. Raise again, place in 
pans; raise again, and bake in a moderately slow oven. 

ONE LOAF OF BREAD 

Two cups milk, scald; one tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon short- 
ening, salt, one-half cake compressed yeast, if you want It to rise 
quick use whole cake, about one quart flour; it is hard to say just the 
amount, as flour varies. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 

One cup wheat flour, one quart entire wheat flour, one pint water 
or milk, one teaspoon butter, one-half teaspoon salt, one-quarter cake 
compressed yeast, sweeten to taste. This makes two loaves. 
PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Scald one pint sweet milk, when cool, add two tablespoonfuls su- 
gar, two of butter, two of yeast and a little salt. Let rise over night, 
knead down in morning, let rise again, at noon knead, roll out thin, 
cut with large cutter, butter the top, fold over, let rise again and bake. 
If wanted for tea, mix in the morning instead at night. 

ENTIRE WHEAT GEMS 

One egg, one-third cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, one of soda, one and three-fourths cups entire wheat 
flour. Beat thoroughly and bake in a quick oven. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



}Jrr-IN'u;jtial Aiiircmcul 

Date 



S^BDlup^. f//of ivhereas I, the undersigned, have had the extreme good 
fotuiie, to he blessed, with a real life long partner, the most enjoyable 
companion, the finest cook and the best housekeeper, I do hereby agree 
and promise that tvithin 30-r,0 days from the date tve start in house- 
keeping I loill buy her a THOR Electric Washing Machine from the 
Reliance Elec. Co., as a slight expression of my desire to lighten he'- 
household duties in the creation of oitr home. 

To be signed by the Groom 



HOME ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES 

Thor Washing Machines Fireless Cookers 

Thor Ironing Machines Sewing Machines 

Thor Vacuum Cleansers Electric Stoves 

FIXTURE DEFT. 

Portable Lamps — Piano Lamps — Boudoir Lamps — Shades 

and Shade Frames 

APPLIANCE DEFT. 

Immersion Heaters — Heating Pads — Baby Food 
Warmers — Irons — Toasters, etc. 



Reliance Eledtric Company, Inc. 

F. R. FARWELL W. B. FLANDERS 

OLYMPIA SQUARE, 32 CENTRAL AVENUE 

LYNN, MASS. 

Telephones 6670 - 6672 



SWEDISH ROLLS 

One pint scalded milk, one half cup butter, one fourth cup sugar, 
one egg, salt, one half yeast cake. Mix in the morning and let it rise 
until after dinner. Shape into rolls and let rise until tea-time. Bake 
in hot oven. 

BLUEBERRY BISCUIT 

One quart flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one half tea- 
spoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls lard, two cups of fresh blueberries. 
Mix together and add milk enough to make a stiff dough. Drop from 
a spoon on greased pan and bake in a hot oven. Serve hot with but- 
tei' and sugar. 

GRAHAM GEMS, WITHOUT EGGS 

One pint flour (one half Graham), one teaspoonful sugar, ono 
half teaspoonful salt and two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Sift these 
all together four times. Put in one tablespoonful butter and add one 
cup milk. Beat hard one minute and drop in hot iron gem pans and 
bake in a quick oven. This makes one dozen. 

CORN CAKE 

One cup corn meal, one half teaspoonful salt, one cup flour, one 
teaspoonful soda, one half cup sugar. Sift these ingredients into 
mixing bowl. Then our over them one and one fourth cup sour milk, 
beaten light with egg beater. Stir well. Last add nearly one half 
cup melted shortening. Beat well. Bake in moderate oven. 

PLAIN WHITE BREAD 

Put into the baking dish two quarts of sifted flour, less one tea- 
cupful to be used on the board when kneading; mix with it one 
teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of su'iar; rub in well one 
tablespoonful of either butter or lard. Mix lialf a teacupful of 
baker's yeast or its equivalent, half a cake of dry hop or com- 
pressed yeast with one pint of lukewarm water, and pour it into the 
middle of the flour, mixing the whole with a large spoon until the 
proper consistency for the dough has been attained, using either 
more water or flour as may be needed. Knead the mass for about 
half an hour and set it in a warm place to rise. By morning it 
should have about doubled in bulk. Knead it over with a little flour, 
shape into loaves, and after it has risen in the pans put into the oven 
and bake. Do not have the oven too hot at first. When done take 
out of pan and lean against something until cool. 



54 MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



CONGRATULATIONS 

May we add to our congratula- 
tions for the bride and groom a 
timely suggestion for later use in 
the home. 

There is no greater or more prac- 
tical economy for the care of your 
apparel and household furnishings 
than the regular assistance of the 
Parisian Dry Cleaning Company. 

A few dollars spent each month 
will save you hundreds of dollai's 
each year on new purchases. 

Keep your new apparel and your 
freshly furnished house in the best 
possible condition by regular pat- 
ronage of 

Ci)e 53anstan Brp Clcanmcj: 
Compaup 

Telephone 3590 

Delivery service to all sections of 
Lynn 

Branch Office, 329 Union Street 
Main Office— 391 Chatham St. 



SQUASH GEMS 

One cup squash, two cups flour, one cup milk, one egg, two table- 
spoons sugar, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, a 
little salt. Bake in gen pans. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

Half pint each of wheat and rye flour, one pint corn meal, two 
potatoes, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful brown sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls Price's Cream Baking Powder. Sift all together 
thoroughly and add half pint of water. Take two boiled potatoes 
and grate them through a sieve, diluting with water, and mix with 
flour and other ingredients. Put in a buttered tin boiler, cover 
tightly and set in a covered kettle to boil. When done set the 
bread boiler in a fairly hot oven. One cup of molasses may be sub- 
stituted for the brown sugar if desired. 

BREAKFAST MUFFINS 

One pint of flour, one egg, butter the size of an egg, two table- 
:;poons of sugar, one and a half tea-spoons of baking powder, half 
a pint of milk. 

SQUASH BISCUIT 

Two cups squash, one cup warm water, (or milk with a little 
less shortening) , in which dissolve one table-spoonful of lard or but- 
ter, add one table-spoon of sugar, half a cake of compressed yeast 
and flour enough to mould. Let it rise over night. Make into bis- 
cuits in the morning, rise and bake. 

CORN MEAL GEMS 

One cup of corn meal, two cups of flour, one cup of sugar, one 
and two-thirds cup of sweet milk, one tea-spoon of soda, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar, one egg if you like. Bake in gem pans. Use 
part or all rye meal instead of flour if desired. 

BREAKFAST BISCUIT 

With one quart of flour, sift thoroughly two rounding teaspoon- 
fuls Dr. Price's Cream Baking Powder and half a teaspoonful of 
salt. For shortening take one large tablespoonful of lard, which 
should be rubbed in thoroughly. Add cool water, stirring with 
large spoon until dough is stiff enough to transfer to board. Sprinkle 
hoard well with flour, and in moulding dough for cutting, work it as 
little as possible. Caution. — Do not mix dough too stiff'. Keep it 
soft as possible to handle. Do not work it too much. A stiff dough, 
worked like yeast bread, makes a hard, tough biscuit. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Felicitations to the bride. 
Congratulations to the groom. 

May we suggest, at this time, too. 
that we can be of practical assist- 
ance to you in the handling of thr 
most difficult of household prob- 
lems — the laundry work! 

If you will simply telephone 3542 
or 2611 we will gladly have ou'' 
salesman call and explain every de- 
tail of our service. 

Do not forget that we handle ev- 
erything from men's collars to ," 
complete family wash. 

"Whyte" is "Right" in laundry 
service ! 



Whyte's Enterprise Laundr)/^ 

'Phones 3.542, 2611 
LAUNDERERS, CLEANSERS, DYERS 

Mmti Office. 83 Willow St. Branch Office. 329 Union St 

Agenctrr!^ tbrovgbnut the Cify 

Our Salesman Calls Each Week in 
Your Neighborhood 



Chafing Dish 



WELSH RAREBIT 

PUT in a dish one tablespoon butter and one pound soft cheese, ad.l 
a little mustai-d, salt and cayenne pepper. When cheese is melt- 
ed, add one-half cup cream, stir until smooth, then add one beaten 
egg, beat again and serve on toasted bread or crackers. 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

One pint cream, a little over pint oysters, one tablespoon flour, 
salt and pepper, to taste, let cream come to a boil, mix flour with little 
cold milk, and stir in boiling cream. Let oysters come to a boil iii 
their own liquor, skim and turn in boiling cream. Serve with toast. 

MEXICAN RAREBIT 

One can tomatoes, three eggs, one teaspoon chopped onion, pep- 
per and salt. Brown onions, heat tomatoes, and mix with onions, 
drop in eggs, one at a time and stir each three minutes. Serve on dry 
buttered toast. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG 

Lobster, one pint milk, one egg, one teaspoon corn starch, one 
tablespoon butter, one tablespoon thick cream, one teaspoon lemon 
juice, salt and pepper to taste. Beat together, egg, corn starch ami 
milk, add salt and pepper, put in lobster and butter; cook in chafing 
dish until sauce thickens, add cream and lemon juice. Serve on toast 
or crackers. 

CHICKEN WIGGLE 

Four tablespoons butter, three tablespoons flour, one and one- 
half cups milk, one can chicken, one can green peas. Strain juice 
from the peas, put milk in chafing dish, thicken with butter and floui 
creamed, add chicken and peas, cook well and serve on dry toast. 

SHRIMP WIGGLE 

Make a sauce of two and one-half tablespoons butter, the same 
quantity fiour, and one and one-half cups milk. Add to this one pinr 
shrimps and one cup peas, letting them heat well all the way through. 
Serve on crackers or toast. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 

Home Furnishings of 
Real CharacSler 

The Kj)id that IV ill Make Your Home a 
Place of Greater Comfort and Happiness 

WHEN you start out to select the furniture for your 
new home — bear in mind that you are going to 
live with it a long time ; that to choose it carefully and 
wisely means comfort and satisfaction. 

At this great store you will find a large stock of fin>:- 

FURNITURE CARPETS RUGS 

DINNERWARE REFRIGERATORS 

AND GLENWOOD RANGES 
on display at moderate prices 

You may choose your furnishings from any 
part of our great stock and whether you wish 
to furnish just a few moderate rooms or an en- 
tire house, you will find the proper type of fur- 
niture here at prices that will interest you. 

It is not necessary to have the entire amount in 
cash to own beautiful furniture such as you 
will find at this store, because we are glad tn 
open an account with you. 

We have helped hundreds of young couples to 
finer, better homes. Why not let us help you? 

D. B. H. POWERj) 

CENTRAL SQUARE, LYNN 
Telephone 27 



CHEESE BUTTER 

One cup cheese, one tablespoon butter, pinch of salt, one-fourth 
teaspoon mustard, dash cayenne pepper. Melt these all together, then 
add one well beaten egg, and stir until smooth. 

CHEESE OMELET 

Grate two ounces cheese, separate the whites and yolks of four 
eggs, add to the yolks four tablespoons cold water, a saltspoon of salt, 
and a dash pepper. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and 
while beating add the yolks. Put a tablespoon butter in a smooth 
frying pan over the fire, when hot, turn in the egg mixtui-e. As it 
begins to set, draw the eggs from the side of the pan toward the 
center. As it thickens, spread on the grated cheese. 

ENGLISH MONKEY 

Soak one cup bread crumbs (no crusts) in one cup milk fifteen 
minutes or more, melt one tablespoon butter, add one-half or three- 
fourths cup soft mild cheese, grated or cut in small pieces, stir until 
cheese is melted, add the soaked crumbs, one-half teaspoon salt, a few 
grains cayenne pepper, and just before serving, two eggs slightly 
beaten. Serve on toasted crackers or bread. 

PLAIN RAREBIT 

Heat one-half cup milk, add two cups cheese, cut in fine shavings. 
When melted, stir in one beaten eggs, and one-half teaspoon each salt 
and dry mustard; as soon as smooth pour over slices of thin toast, 
and serve at once. 

CHEESE PATTIES 

Grate half pound of cheese,, mix in it a scant tablespoonful melt- 
ed butter, a tablespoonful milk, one egg. salt and peper. Mix it to a 
smoth paste, cut slices of bread, brush both sides with melted butter, 
brown in oven. Cover with the cheese mixture and return to oven 
long enough to melt the cheese. Serve at once. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG 

One tablespoonful of butter, two cupfuls of lobster cut in small 
pieces, one half pint of cream, three eggs, pepper and salt. 

MOCK LOBSTER 

Remove bones and skin from one can salmon, put in pan with 
one pint milk; when boiling add large tablespoon butter and little 
salt. Roll fine two or three soda crackers, and stir in just before 
taking from the fire. 



MEXnOX THE BRIDE BOOK 



^^^ .U^ 



THIS store is the home of Optimism and Enthusiasm, contagious 
qualities which we all need; ccme in and get infused. We assure 
ycu visitors will i-eceive courteous, pr mp; and suggestive ser- 
vice helping to haimonize in Pottery, Potted Plants ov Artificiai 
!• lowers any color scheme presented. 

If it's a Home Garden you are planning we can give you the bene- 
fit of (54 years experience in Seed Selection. Fertilizers", Inseeticidei^ 
and Tools. 

Every year we receive many expressions of appreciation from 
customers all over the world; need we say tbit a reputation of depen 
dability does net happen through accident; but only from endeavor- 
ing to give the best in every line obtainable. 

Remember— Quality not Price 



J. J. H. GREGORY & SON. 

198 OXFORD STREET 

Telephone 3490 Under Hotel 



. HONEST 
SEEDS 



Puddings and Deserts 

CHOCOLATE COTTAGE PUDDING 

ONE half cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, one half cup milk, 
one and one half cups flour, two and one half teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder, two squares chocolate, teaspoonful Baker's vanilla. 

COCOANUT TAPIOCA CREAM 

Soak two heaping tablespoonfuls pearl tapioca in a little 
cold water over night or for two hours. Heat a pint of milk in double 
boiler, add tapioca, yolks of two eggs, beaten, two thirds cup sugar 
and a little salt, also four tablespoonfuls shredded cocoanut, and cook 
well. Make a meringue of the white of two eggs, beaten stiff witli 
two tablespoonfuls sugar, spread over the cream and brown in oven. 
Serve cold. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

Melt one half cup of sugar in a saucepan. When thoroughly 
melted add two cups of scalded milk and cook till free from lumps. 
Beat two eggs into which one eighth teaspoonful of salt has been added. 
Pour the eggs into the milk, add one teaspoonful of Baker's vanilla, 
bake in a dish, placed in a pan of hot water in a slow oven, cook until 
a knife blade put in center will come out clean. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

Heat in spider till it skims over nearly a quart of milk. Mix with 
the rest of the quart of milk two mixing spoons Indian meal, salt, one 
egg, unbeaten, one half cup molasses. Stir the mixture into the milk 
in the spider. Pour into buttered pudding dish and bake three hours. 

NEW TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Three tablespoonfuls tapioca soaked two hours, boil until clear 
and then cool. One pint canned pineapple added to tapioca. Add 
one cup whipped cream and chill. 

DUTCH APPLE PUDDING 

One pint flour, one egg, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one cu i 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls butter, two thirds cup milk, one half tea- 
spoonful salt. Four large apples cut in pieces and put on top. 
Sprinkle a little cinnamon and sugar on top. Bake in a shallow pan. 

BAKED RICE PUDDING 

One quart milk, three tablespoons rice, seven tablespoons sugar, 
a small bit of butter, a pinch of salt, a pinch of cinnamon, and a few 
drops of vanilla. Bake in a slow oven until the consistency of cream. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Intelligent Hoiisekeepnig 



a# 



Demands that your home 
be equipped with electrical 
servants that save your 
health and strength by per- 
forming the hard, tiresome 
work at less cost than old- 
fashioned, inefficient meth- 
ods. 

Your husband is using many 
labor-saving appliances with effi- 
ciency and economy. Run your 
home on a business basis and yo!j 
will be happily surprised at the 
results. 

The Gainaday is paying its way 
in many of your friends' homes. 
It is ready to permanently and 
satisfactorily solve your laundry problem. 

After a satisfactory trial, it is yours for a five-dollar bill and 
monthly payments to suit your convenience. Make this step towards 
intelligent housekeeping today. 

LABOR SAVING ELECTRICAL 
APPLIANCES 

Vacuum Cleaners Electric Irons 

Electric Percolators — Laundry Ironers 
Electric Grills — Table Lamps, etc 




Washe 



We absolutely guarantee all 

our goods to give 

permanent satisfaction 



The Electric Shop 

7 Willow Street 

Room 301 Telephone 990 

"Everything Electrical for the Home" 



APPLE PUDDING 

Slice apples in bottom of pudding dish, sweeten to taste. Make 
batter of one tablespoon butter, one-half cup sugar, one egg, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one cup flour, one teaspoon baking pwwder. Pour over 
the apples and bake in a slow oven. Serve with sweet sauce. 

INDIAN COCOANUT PUDDING 

One quart milk, one cup corn meal, one teaspoon salt, one-half 
cup syrup, one-half cup shreddeed cocoanut, one-fourth teaspooT! 
cinnamon, one-fourth teaspoon mace. Heat the milk to boiling point. 
Add corn meal, stirring constantly. Cook ten to fifteen minutes. 
Add other ingredients. Bake in a greased pan in a cool oven for one 
hour. 

CREAM SAUCE 

One egg, one half cup powdered sugar, one half cup thick cream, 
one fourth cup milk, one half teaspoonful Baker's vanilla. Beat 
white of egg stiff, add yolk well beaten and sugar gradually, dilute 
cream with milk. Beat until ftiff, then combine mixtures and flavor. 

CHOCOLATE CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

One quart milk, two ounces chocolate, one cup corn syrup, one- 
third cup cornstarch, two eggs, one teaspoon vanilla. Heat milk in a 
double boiler. Add chocolate and syrup. Moisten cornstarch with a 
little of the cold milk and add to hot mixture. Stir constantly until 
thick. Add slightly beaten eggs and vanilla and remove from heat. 
Turn in molds and chill. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

One and one-third cupful flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one-fourth teaspoonful salt, one egg, two-thirds cupful milk. Mi.v 
dry ingredients, add egg and milk stirred together. Cut two medium- 
sized sour apples into eighths, slice the eighths and stir into batter. 
Drop by spoonfuls into hot, deep fat, and fry until brown. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

One egg, one half cup sugar, one half cup milk, one cup flour, one 
teaspoonful melted butter, one square melted chocolate, one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder. Steam steadily for one hour and serve with 
whipped cream. 

CARAMEL PUDDING 

One cup sugar, put in spider, melt and brown carefully, add one 
pint milk, four eggs, save out whites of two for frosting. Put in dish 
and bake as custard. After frosting place in hot oven to brown 
slightly. Served cold. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



TO THE BRIDE — 

Our D L^' H Lackawanna Coal 

will make \our happiness lasting, fo7- 
the wav to a man's 
heart is through 
liis stomach; and 
voiir cooking will 
sureh' be good 
o\ er a hre ot our 
D & H Coal <A !* 



Our Coal is Black, 

But we treat you II 'kite. 




Lynn Coal Company 

777 WESTERN AVENUE, LYNN, MASS. 
TELEPHONE LYNN 1.U7 



LEMON JELLY 

Two and one-half cups boiling water, (two cups boiling water if 
corn syrup or honey is used,) one cup honey or one and one-third cups 
corn sugar or one and three-fifths cups corn syrup, one-half cup 
lemon juice, two tablespoon plain gelatin, one-half cup cold water. 
Soak uelatin in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, strain and add 
sweeteninn' and lemon juice. Turn into mold and chill. 

FIG PUDDING 

One cupful raisins, one cupful suet, one cupful chopped figs, one 
cupful sweet milk, one cupful molasses, two and one-half cupfuls 
flour, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful ginger, one teaspoonful 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful nutmeg. Mix all the ingredients in a bow!, 
add the molasses and milk. Pour into a greased mold, and steam 
about three hours. Serve hot with a liquid sauce. 

HOLIDAY PUDDING 

V2 cup shortening, one and one-fourth cups corn syrup, two table- 
spoons molasses, two eggs, one cup grated raw carrots, one cup grated 
raw potato, one-half teaspoon cloves, one-half teaspoon nutmeg, one- 
half teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon baking pow- 
der, one and three-fourths cups barley flour, one-half teaspoon soda, 
one and one-half cups chopped raisins and dates, one cup chopped 
nuts. Warm shortening, syrup, and molasses, and mix. Beat eggs, 
add to the mixture. Add vegetables. Sift dry ingredients and add 
with fruit after dredging with flour. Steam three hours. Recipe 
will fill two one-pound baking powder cans. Serve with French sauce. 
(See Pudding Sauces.) 

CHRISTMAS PUDDING 

One cup of suet (chooped fine), one cup sweet milk, two cups 
seeded raisins, one cup currants, one cup bi-own sugar, one half cup 
molasses, two cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful each 
of cassia, cloves and nutmeg. Steam three hours. It is better to 
divide this into four parts and steam in pound cans. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING 

One pint boiling water, in double boiler, save out a little to 
moisten three tablespoons corn starch, one tablespoon sugar, a little 
salt, stir into boiling water, beat up whites three eggs stiffs, and stir 
into starch. 

CUSTARD — Yolks three eggs, cup milk, one-half cup sugar, one 
teaspoon corn starch, salt and flavor. 



HE BRIDE BOOK 



r 



la 



An Elearic Shade 
Lamp will beautify 
and brigrhten the 
li\ing room. 

COMPLETE LINE 

OF 

LAMPS IRONS SHADES 

PERCOLATORS 

CORDS GRILLS 



'EVERYTHING 

ELECTRICAL' 



ELS 



We can help you make your home cheerful and 

comfortable 

Allow us to submit a figure on the cost 

of wiring your Old or New House 

ATCH &WOOI 

' ELECTRIC CoTI 

ENGINEERS, CONTRACTORS, 
=— SUPPLIES =- 

GAS and ELECTRIC FIXTURES 
75 BLAKE ST. 



LYNN. MASS. 
TEI_. I03S 



Pies 



RAlSm PIE 

ONE cup cf chopped raisins, one cup sugar, one cup cold water, 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, one tablespoon flour, one 
tablespoon butter; put on fire to thicken; bake between two crusts. 

APPLE PIE 

Four common sized sour apples sliced fine, one cup sugar, butter 
the size of a walnut. Sprinkle one-half teaspoon cinnamon and a 
little flour over top of apples. Two tablespoons water. 

CHOCOLATE PIE— DELICIOUS 

One large cup milk, one-half cup sugar, two tablespoons grated 
chocolate, three eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, vanilla to flavor. Beat 
yolks of eggs until light, adding to them two tablespoons of the milk. 
Heat the chocolate and the rest of the milk together, add salt and 
sugar, and when scalding hot add the yolks of the eggs; cook two 
minutes, adding the flavoring when partly cooked. Line a pie plate 
with crust, pour in the filling, bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 
Beat whites of eggs with one tablespoon sugar, spread on top anr! 
brown. 

SWEET POTATO PIE 

Line a plate with paste, and build a rim; fill with the followiny,- 
mixture: to one cup hot sifted sweet potatoes, add one and one-fourth 
cups milk, one-third cup sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, a little nutmeg, 
one egg slightly beaten. 

RHUBARB AND RAISIN PIE 

Chop enough rhubarb to make two cups, add one cup sugar and 
one cup seeded and chopped raisins. Bake between two crusts. Dust 
the top with powdered sugar for serving. 

FROSTED LEMON PIE 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon, one cup sugar, yolks two eggs, 
one tablespoon floor, beat thoroughly and stir into one cup boiling 
water, in a double boiler, cook until it thickens, when cool, pour into 
a shell which has been previously baked. 

FROSTING — To the beaten whites two eggs, add one tablespoon 
sugar, and brown in the oven. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 




cTWANUFACTURERS' AGENTS 

From the Maker Direct to you 



WOMEN'S SUITS, COATS AND DRESSES 

From the Country's Foremost Makers 



c^TVIEN'S CLOTHES 

■'The Better Kind" 



WATCHES - DIAMONDS 

JEWELRY 

CUT GLASS - SILVEr<WARE 

FURNITURE 

Direct to You at Factory Prices 



Our Order Checks on 
Boston Stores 

Put you in touch with the Season's 

Choicest Offerings in 

Women's Finest Clothing 



,:_ylnd always bea 



ind that, with us 



I NINETY DAYS IS CASH 

K H. GLIDDEN 

OLYMPIA SQUARE. LYNN P. F. QUIRK. Manager 



CREAM LEMON PIE 

Sift into a bowl one cup sugar and one tablespoonful flour and a 
small pinch of salt. Add the juice and grated rind of a large lemon, 
a tablespoonful of butter (melted) and the beaten yolks of two eggs. 
Then add one cup milk and lastly the whites of two eggs, beaten very 
stiff. Mix thoroughly and pour into crust. Do not hurry the baking 
or the top will get too brown before the pie is cooked through. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

Two thirds cup seeded raisins, two thirds cup cranberries, chop- 
ped together; two thirds cup sugar, two thirds cup cold water, one 
tablespoonful flour, one tablespoonful vanilla, pinch of salt. Mix all 
thoroughly and bake with two rich crusts. Warm slightly before 
serving. 

MOCK MINCE OR GREEN TOMATO PIE 

Pare and chop one green tomato, one apple, roll fine one cracker, 
add one scant cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls vinegar, one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, one fourth cloves and a pinch of salt. Mix well and 
bake between two crusts. 

CUSTARD PIE 

Three eggs, one half cup sugar, pinch salt, two cups milk and a 
little nutmeg. Cover pie plate with good rich crust, grate nutmeg on 
top of pie. Bake in good moderate oven half an hour. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

One pint pumpkin (sifted), one quart milk, three-fourths cup 
sugar, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one and one-half teaspoons salt, 
one-half nutmeg, two eggs. Scald milk and pumpkin, then add other 
ingredients. This will make two pies. Squash can be used instead 
of pumpkin. Make the crust same as for custard pie. 

PIE CRUST 

Three cups flour, one cup lard, one-half cup water, and salt. Stir 
with spoon. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

One and one-half cups cranberries, one cup sugar, half cup water, 
two even tablespoons flour. The cranberries can be used whole same 
as other berries. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 




I f: 



If it's made of Rubber 
you'll find it here 

Everything in Rubber, from a 
baby's nipple to rubber boots 

Rubber Sheetings 

Hot Water Bottles 

Fountain Syringes 

Rubber Tubing 

Rubbers and Rain Coats 

Howe's Rubber Store 




EVERY-DAY PIE CRUST 

Three cupfuls of flour, one cupful of lard, "cut in," a little salt, 
water enough to mix, two tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled in. Thio 
makes enough for two pies. 

MOCK. CHERRY PiE 

One cupful cranberries, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of raisins, 
unchcppefl one-half cupful of water, in whi:h put one and one-half 
teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Sprinkle the plate with flour to thicken the 
pie and bake with two crusts. This' amount will make one pie. 

RHUBARB PIE 

One cupful of chupped rhubarb, one cupful of sugar, one egg. 
one teaspoonful of lemon, salt. Bake with two crusts. 

LEMON SPONGE PIE 

One lemon, one cupful of sugar, two eggs, ojie cupful of milk, 
two teaspoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of butter. Cream th'. 
butter and sugar and add the flour. Separate the whites anti yolk- 
of the eggs, mixing the yolks with the suga.- and butter. Grate thu 
rind of the lemon and add the juice, then the cupful of milk. Lasth 
stir in the well-whipped whites of the eggs and bake in one crust. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

One cupful of cranberries, chopped fine, one cupful of choppe.l 
raisins, one cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour, one-half cupful 
of boiling water, scant, salt and vanilla. Mix the flour and sugar, 
add water, then the raisins. Beat smooth and add the cranberries 
last. Bake in two crusts. 



NEW ENGLAND CHOCOLATE PiE 

One-half cupful of sugar, two level tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, 
one tablespoonful of chocolate or cocoa, yolks of two eggs, a little salt, 
two cupfuls of milk, vanilla. Bake in one crust. 

CHERRY PIE 

One quart cherries, one cup sugai'. one tablespoon flour, pastry; 
stem and pit the cherries, sift the flour and sugar together and ad:! 
to the cherries. Line a pie tin with a rich pastry. Put in preparei'. 
cherries, cover with pastry and bake in moderate oven for thirty-five 
minutes. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



The Art Shop 

This store is truly an "ART 
SHOP" in every sense of the word 



We carry a full line of 

ARTISTS MATERIALS 

PHOTOGRAPHERS SUPPLIES 
ART PICTURES 
STATIONERY 

HOLIDAY and GIFT CARDS 
ARTIFICIAL FLOWERS 
CREPE PAPER 

FRAMES (Made to order) 

We personally guarantee every ar- 
ticle that leaves our store. We wanl 
you to be satisfied. This service has 
done much to make our store the in- 
stitution which it is. 

Headquarters for Kodaks 




119 MUNROE STREET LYNN, MASS 



Cakes and Cookies 

"Who follows well these rules will make 
The lightest, most delicious cake." 
CREAM SPONGE CAKE 
^ I ■'WO eggs beaten light, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one and one 
half teaspoonfuls baking powder, pinch of salt, add one half cup 
boiling milk with one teaspoonful butter. Bake in a not too hot oven, 
half teaspoonfuls baking powder, pinch of salt, add one half cup boil 
ing- milk with one teaspoonful butter. Bake in a not too hot oven. 
APPLE SAUCE CAKE 
Two cups sugar, two cups thick apple sauce, one half cup butter, 
two teaspoonfuls soda (dissolved in a little hot water), one cup raisins 
one cup nut meats, three cups flour. Bake in moderate oven. 
BUTTER CAKE 
One half cup butter, two eggs, two cups flour (measured after 
sifting), one half cup milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one half 
teaspoonful salt. Beat well and after it is in the pan sprinkle one 
half cup chopped nut meats over it and sprinkle with sugar. 
CINNAMON CHOCOLATE CAKE 
One cup sugar, one half cuj) butter, one half cup of milk, two 
eggs, one and one half cups flour, one and one half teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder, one fourth teaspoonful salt, three teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 
Mix flour, salt and baking powder,cream butter, sugar and cinnamon 
together, then add beaten yolks, then milk and flour. Then add beate'i 
whites. Beat all together and bake in a quick oven. 
DUDLEY CAKE 
One half cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, one square melted 
chocolate, one and three fourths cups flour, one half cup milk, one 
half teaspoonful saleratus. a little nutmeg and cinnamon, one cup 

FROSTING 

One cup of powdered sugar and enough sweet cream to moisten it. 
Beat well and spread on cake. 

MOTHER'S COFFEE CAKE 

One and one half cups sugar, one half cup butter, two eggs, one 
cup molasses, one and one half cups raisins, one half cup currants, 
one half cup candied lemon or citron, one teaspoonful cinnamon, onf 
teaspoonful cloves, one heaping teaspoonful soda dissolved in one and 
one half cups strong coffee, five cups flour. This receipt makes two 
loaves of cake. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Special T^rices to 

^J\(jzvlyweds 




The best wav to start house- 
keeping is to buy your fur- 
niture here. Small prices 
get big \ alues at our store. 



Complete Outtifs 

or 

Specie}/ Pieces 



^ 



Whether you want a complete 
outht or just a few articles, we 
know vou will hnd it advan- 
tageous to trade here. Our 
stock contains the very latest 
designs in the most popular 
finishes. 



;^": Style and Stability at T* leasing T*rices 

Dine Furniture Company 

g-II M/iiii-oe Street 

THREE FLOORS i)¥ MEDRM AND HIGH-GRADE FURNIIT RE 



EGGLESS COCOA CAKE 

One cup Eugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweat milk, one tea- 
spoon soda, two of cream tartar, two and one-half cups flour, three 
heaping teaspoons cocoa. Take cocoa a little of the sugar and enough 
of the milk to moisten well and cook a little, then beat all together 
and bake. 

CHEAP MARBLE CAKE 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, two eggs, the yolks and whites 
beaten separately, half cup milk, one cup and a half flour, and one and 
a half teaspoons baking powder. I save out the white of one egg tj 
frost. I take one-half of the above mixture and put in a dark spice 
instead of making two separate mixtures. 

iVIOCK ANGEL CAKE 

Mix and sift four times: one cup sugar, one and one-third cup? 
flour, three teaspoons baking powder, one-third teaspoon salt. Pour 
on gradually two-thirds cup hot scalded milk, fold in whites of tw<' 
eggs beaten stiff', add one teaspoon vanilla. Pour into an unbuttered 
tube cake tin and bake forty-five minutes in moderate oven. 

CREAM PUFFS 

One cup boiling water, one-half cup butter. Boil together, theii 
add one heaping cup flour. Take from stove and beat smooth, whei 
cool break into it three eggs and beat again until perfectly smooth. 
Drop small spoonfuls on buttered pans far enough apart so they will 
not run together and bake twenty-five minutes in quick oven. 

CREAM — One and one-half cups milk, one egg, two-thirds cu:j 
sugar and corn starch to thicken, flavor with vanilla. 

SOFT HERMITS 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one egg, one cup chopped rais 
ins, one cup sour inilk, one cup shortening, one teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon c'cves, two teaspoons cinnamon, four cups sifted flour., little 
salt. Mix well and drop on tins a spoonful at a time. 

SUGAR COOKIES 

One egg, one cup sugar, one fourth cup milk, one half cup but- 
ter, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, as 
little flour as possible. Bake in hot oven. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

One cup sugar, three yolks of eggs, one tablespoonful butter, tw-i 
thirds cup milk, one and one half cups flour, one small teaspoon so :1a 
two small teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



In Planning Your 
New Home — 
Be Modern! 




"Do it electrically" 

Consider the savings of labor, time 
and trouble through the use of the 
electric appliances. 

COMPLETE LINE OF 

VACUUM CLEANERS— ELEC. FLAT IRONS 

WASHING MACHINES— TABLE GRILLS— LAMPS 



Electric Fixtures 

Electric Supplies — Wiring 

Repair and Installation Work 
of Every Description 



heKlectricalSho 



^^j^S^Sb-.'^ 




? 



WOOD ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION CO 

lEL ECTRICAL CONTRACTOR S 

72 Exchange St.Lynn >\a8S. Phones N^Votf^? 



MOLASSES SPONGE CAKE 

One cup molasses, one half cup sugar, one half cup butter or lard, 
one egg, one dessert spoonful soda, one teaspoonful each of salt ami 
cassia, one half teaspoonful each of cloves and nutmeg, one cup boil- 
ing water, three cups flour. Add hot water last. 

LIGHTNING CAKE 

One cup of sugar, one cup of pastry flour, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, little salt; put all together in flour sifter. Piece of 
butter, size of an egg, put in cup and let melt, drop in two eggs and 
fill cup up with milk, add one teaspoonful of flavoring and beat well 
into the dry ingredients, bake in moderate oven. 

FILLED COOKIES 

One cup sugar, half cup shortening, one egg, one half cup milk, 
three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoon- 
ful sodi, one teaspoonful Baker's vanilla. Roll thin and put tea- 
spoonful of filling on and don't let come to edge, place another on top 
and bake quickly. 

FILLING 

One cup chopped raisins, one half cup water, one half cup sugar, 
one teaspoonful flour. Cook till thick, take care not to burn. 

GINGER COOKIES 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of lard, one cup 
of boiling water, two teaspoonfuls of soda in the boiling water stirrer' 
up, two teaspoonfuls of ginger. 

MOCHA CAKE 

Two eggs, beaten lightly, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder, one teaspoonful Baker's vanilla, pinch s.ilt: 
lastly add one half cup boiling milk with one teaspoonful butter 
melted in the milk. 

FROSTING 

One fourth cup butter, one cup powdered sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls cold strong coff'ee, two teaspoonfuls dry cocoa. 

FEATHER CAKE 

One tablespoonful butter, one cup sugar, one egg, one cup milk, 
one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one half teaspoonful soda, two cups 
flour. Flavor with nutmeg. 

SILVER CAKE 

One cupful of sugar, whites of four eggs, one-half cupful of but- 
ter, two cupfuls of flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, one-half cupful of milk, put in last, a little salt. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



■U^:^^^ 



m '% 





sBurrilUs 

^ I TOOTH POWDER 
TOOTH 




M ANU fact;s>) re d by 

NEW ENGLAND LABORATORY CO. 

LYNN MASSACHUSETTS 



HOT MILK CAKE 

One cup sugar, one cup flour before sifted, one-half cup hot milk, 
one-fourth cup butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful scda. Sift sugar, flour, cream of tartar and soda 
together, add beaten eggs. Melt butter in the hot milk. Beat all to- 
gether. Flavor with any extract. 

CHEAP FRUIT CAKE 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful molasses, one-half cupful 
of milk, one cupful of butter, four cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of 
soda, three eggs, spices of all kinds, one cupful of raisins, one cupfu! 
of currants, one-half cupful of citron. This will make two loaves. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Three eggs, one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of 
cold water, two cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda, salt. Sift the cream of tartar with one 
cupful of the flour; dissolve the soda in a little hot water. Add th-^ 
rind and juice of one orange. 

CREAM CAKES 

One cupful of hot water, one-third cupful of butter, three eggs, 
one heaping cupful of flour. Melt the butter in the hot water; whilij 
it boils slowly stir in the flour until a smooth paste is made. Let it 
cool while beating three eggs, then stir the eggs into paste. Bak? 
in a hot oven for twenty-five minutes. 

FILLING FOR CREAM CAKES 

One-half cupful of sugar, three spoonfuls of flour, one egg, one 
cupful of boiling milk. Beat the egg, add the sugar and flour mixed. 
Stir in the boiling milk and cook until creamy. 

MARBLE CAKE 

One cupful of .?ugar, one-half cupful of butter, one cupful of milk, 
two and one-half cupfuls of flour, one egg, .me teaspoonful of soda, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Take one-third of the mixture 
and add to it half a teaspoonful each of cinnimon. cloves, nutmeg ani! 
allspice, with half a cupful of raisins. Put in the pan in alternate 
spoonfuls. 

NUT CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, whites of three eg,a-s, one- 
half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one cup chopped English walnuts. 
Use halved walnuts on white frosting. Bake in small, square tin. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 




Start the New Home Right ! 

We hare a Wedding QiftforTou 

If you will bring this book to our 
store we will give you two pieces of 

Transparent 

Oven-Ware 

"■* "^'^ Has the name on every piece 

TWO CUSTARD CUPS 
One for Ton — One for Him 



Remember that a few 
pieces of Pyrex are 
worth more than a 
whole shelfful of or- 
dinary kitchen ware. 

Bake and Serve in the 
Same Dish 

PYREX It--. ,, ;i ^• I I. •'' I 'I . >A ' man who does her own cooking — 
it makes it easier to prepare a meal — easier to serve the meal at- 
tractively, and saves untold hours of extra pan cleaning. The pol- 
ished surface is easy to clean. 

PYREX never chips nor crazes and is guaranteed against 

breakage from oven heat. PYREX never grows old. 

Secure a few pieces now and be prepared 

for housekeeping time 




We have Pyrex Dishes 
for every baking need 



HOWARD F. POOL COMPANY 



Paints — Oils — Hardware 
5 Market St. 



Tel. 671 



Lynn, Mass. 



Preserves, Pickles and Jellies 

CRAB APPLE JELLY 

■i-rrASH fruit, cut in pieces, but do not pare nor remove seeds, 
^ ^ barely cover with cold water. Boil slowly, and when soft put 
in cheese cloth bag and let juice drip through, but do not squeeze, a^ 
that makes jelly cloudy. Measure and let boil twenty minutes, add 
equal quantity of heated sugar, boil five minutes, skim and turn in 
grlasses. Cover and keep in a cool dry place. 
PEPPER RELISH 

Twelve green peppers, twelve ripe peppers (remove seeds), 
twelve large onions. Chop fine, cover with boiling water five min- 
utes, drain and add one quart vinegar, two cups sugar, four table- 
spoonfuls salt. Boil slowly one hour. 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

Three pounds cauliflower, one quart onions, two quarts green to- 
matoes, one pound green and red peppers, two quarts vinegar, one 
half cup mustard, three fourths cup flour, one large tablespoonfui 
pepper, one half cup sugar, one half cup salt. Boil tomatoes, onions, 
peppers and cauliflower ten minutes. Then mi.x mustard, flour, salt, 
sugar and pepper in a little cold vinegar and boil just long enough to 
thicken. 

CURRANT JELLY 

Wash the currants but do not stem; put in a kettle; scald but 
not cook; cool and strain. Boil the juice about twenty minutes 
Weigh the sugar, a pound to a pint of juice, and have it in the oven 
browning lightly and heating thoroughly. When the juice has boiled 
twenty minutes stir in the sugar until it dissolves; then put into 
glasses. 

PICCALILI 

One peck chopped green tomatoes, one scant cup of salt. Let 
stand over night and in the morning drain off all juice. Then add 
one head celery chopped, six onions chopped, one tablespoonfui all- 
spice, one tablespoonfui cinnamon, two cups brown sugar, one tea- 
spoonful mustard, skins of two red peppers chopped, two quarts 
strong vinegar. Cook until tender. 

RASPBERRY JAM 

To three or four pounds of ripe red raspberries add an equal 
quantity of white sugar. Crush the whole well in a preserving ket- 
tle; add one pint of currant juice and boil gently until it jellies upon 
a cold plate; put into small jars and cover with brandied paper. Tie 
over them a thick paper and keep in a dark, cool and dry place. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



"If you want a thing well done 
have it cooked at home." 



SHOES 

$500 or $5000 



It isn't what you pay for your shoes — it is that value 
you are receiving in return that counts. That is 
what you can bank on with us, value received at all 
times whether you pay $5.00 or $50.00 a pair. 



Good Shoes — Hone^ Shoes 

IS OUR MOTTO 



Wentworth^s Shoe Store 

269 Union Street, Lynn 

Keep onxiour toes; you can't tell Tvhal'll turn up next 



STRAWBERRY JAM 

Put into a porcelain kettle four pounds of strawberries, one pint 
of red currant juice and two pounds of sugar. Boil the berries and 
currant juice first; add the sugar and boil up again, skimming well. 
Put in jars, cover with brandied paper and keep in a cool place. 
PEARS 

Pare, cut in halves and throw into cold water. Take one pound 
of sugar and a little over a cup of water for every three pounds of 
the fruit. When the syrup boils put in a layer of fruit and cook unti! 
tender. Have jars ready in a pan of boiling hot water (be careful 
to plunge them in so the water strikes outside and inside at the same 
time; fill the jars to the top with fruit, then pour on boiling syrup to 
the brim and screw the tops very tight. Set away in a cool, dark 
place. 

PEACHES 

Plunge into boiling water to make the skins come off easily, then 
throw into cold water. For three pounds of fruit use one pound of 
sugar and not quite a cup of water. When the syrup boils put in 
peaches, a few at a time, and cook until tender. Fill jars as for pears. 
The stones wiW add to the flavor. 

PRESERVED QUINCES 

Pare and quarter, taking out cores and all hard parts. Boil in 
clear water until tender; spread out t^ dry. Allow a half pound of 
sugar and one-third of a cup of water to a pound of fruit. When 
the syrup boils put in the fruit, set b^ck on the stove and cook very 
slowly for an honj- or tnore if not toa tender, as the longer it cooks 
the brighter will be the color. Put in jars as other fruit. 

APPLE JELLY 

Appjes for jelly should be tart, juicy and of good flavor. Pare 
the apples, core and quarter them, then put them, with the skins and 
cores, in a jar in a slow oven. When they are quite soft, strain all 
through a coarse muslin ba^, pressing hard to extract all the flavor 
of the fruit. Put a pound of loaf sugar to every pint of juice, and 
the juice of a leiflort, and put the liquor over the.fire in preserving ket- 
tle. Boil steadily for twenty minutes or so, skimming occasionally; 
roll glasses in hot -water and fill'them with th^ jelly while hot. WTier 
cold, cover with brandied tissue paper, and store in a cool, dry place, 

C[;11LI SAUCE 

Twenty large tomatoes, six red peppers, six onions, two tea cCips 
vinegar, one and one half teaspoonfuls salt, one and one half cups 
sugar, one and one half teaspoonfuls pepper, one teaspoonful cinna- 
mon. Boil one hour. <.,,; 



msmm.. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Being happilv married is a blessed adventure 
in living, like riding on the rim ot the sunrise. 

Let this specialty shop make your 

happiness complete bv saving you 

time and money on your 

household needs. 



g Specialties - Bedding 
1 Linens - Cottons 




73 MARKET STREET 
Corner of Tremont 



i^av we have the pleasure of servingYou? 



Sauces 



SAUCE TARTARE 

TO the yolks of four eggs add salt and mustard to taste and a 
pinch of powdered sugar; stir in drop by drop four tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil ; follow in the same way with an equal quantity of 
tarragon vinegar; add a button onion minced and mashed, a little 
pickled cucumber cut fine; pepper. This makes a choice fine sauce. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Break carefully two eggs and put the yolks into a shallow dish, 
then add, drop by drop, enough Lucca oil to work to a cream, stirring 
steadily one way with a wooden or plated fork — never steel; add salt 
to taste and follow with mustard to taste, next a very small pinch of 
powdered sugar, and last of all vinegar to taste drop by drop. The 
stirring should be continuous and always in one direction, and when 
properly made the mayonnaise will have the smoothness and con 
sistency of the richest cream. Some use all of the egg. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING, NO. 2 

Put the yolk of an egg into a bowl with a saltspoonful of salt, and 
beat until light; then add half a teaspoonful of dry mustard, and beat 
again. Then add olive oil, drop by drop, until it is thickening, then a 
few drops of vinegar, and the same of lemon juice. Continue this 
process until the egg has absorbed a little more than a gill of oil ; 
finish by adding a very little cayenne pepper. 

MUSHROOM GRAVY 

Put a pint of peeled mushrooms into a small saucepan with a few 
slices of fat bacon or a lump of butter; brown until they stick to the 
bottom, but be careful not to scorch; stir in :i tablespoonful of flour, 
add a pint of broth and let simmer five minutes. A little lemon juice 
may be added if desired. 

CELERY SAUCE FOR TURKEY 

Boil a head of celery until quite tender, then put it through a 
sieve; put the yolk of an egg in a basin and beat it well with the 
strained juice of a lemon; add the celery and a couple of spoonfuls of 
liquor in which the turkey was boiled; salt and pepper to taste, 

CAPER SAUCE 

Mix well one tablespoonful of flour and twice the quantity of but- 
ter; add boiling water until it thickens. Chop fine and add one-hard- 
boiled egg and two tablespoonfuls of capers. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



Open Evenings Free Delivery 



The Road to Happiness 

Leads Direct to 

The Lynn Furniture Store 

38 Andrew Street, Lynn 

for the Furnishings of 
Home Sweet Honiu 

JVe hd've a good seledion of 

NEW AND SECOND HAND 
FURNITURE 



You will find here 

ART SQUARES, CARPETS and RUGS 
PARLOR and BEDROOM SETS 
DINING ROOM SETS 
OIL CLOTH FLOORING 
STOVES and REFRIGERATORS 
Slightly used at half the price of new 



Good Furniture Not Expensive 



Our Prices Are Moderate Our Terms Liberal 



Griddle Cakes and Waffles 

SIFT dry one pint of buckwheat flour and two teaspoonfuls of 
Price's Cream Baking Powder, and add a tablespoonful of brown 
sugar with water sufficient to make a batter. Beat but lightly ami 
bake at once on a hot griddle. 

{NDIAN GRIDDLE-CAKES 

Sift and mix together two-thirds quart of corn meal, one-third 
quart of flour, one teaspoonful of bi'own sugar, two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of Price's Cream Baking Powder and a half teaspoonful of 
salt. Add two beaten eggs and one pint of milk, beating into a 
smooth batter. Brown nicely on a very hot griddle. Serve with 
syrup. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

Take half a teacupful of rice and boil; when cold mix with one 
quart of milk, the yolks of four eggs and two teacupfuls of flour sifted 
with, two teaspoonfuls of Price's Cream Baking Powder with a little 
salt; beat the whites of the eggs to a froth and add last. Bake on a 
gridle. 

FLANNEL CAKES 

Sift together one and a half pints of flour, one tablespoonfu' 
brown sugar, two teaspoonfuls of Price's Cream Baking Powder and 
one teaspoonful of salt. Add two beaten eggs and one and a half 
pints milk and beat into a smooth thin batter. Bake on hot griddle 
to a rich brown color and serve with maple syrup. These should 
never be larger than a tea saucer. 

WILHELM WAFFLES 

Mix one quart of flour with three tablet-'poonfuls of sugar, tw< 
large teaspoonfuls of Price's Cream Baking Powder and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt; work in two tablespoonfuls of lard or butter and 
add four beaten eggs with one pint of milk. 

PANCAKES 

Mix one pint of flour and one teaspoonful of Price's Cream Bak 
ing Powder. Beat separately the whites and yolks of six eggs; add 
the yolks first with one saltpoon of salt; then follow with the whites 
and flour alternately, with flour sufficient to make a thin batter. Lard 
the bottom of a hot frying pan and fry quickly. Pancakes should be 
rolled up like a sheet of paper, laid upon a hot dish and served with 
butter, jelly or preserves as preferred. If not sent to the table im- 
mediately upon coming from the pan they .'should be kept hot over 
boiling water so that they may not become dry. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 

^t7's. T^rospecfive : 

you are not counting on being married but once. 

You cannot afford to let the greatest event 
of your life go by without a Wedding reception 
of some kind. 

Something to look back on with pleasant 
memories. 

Something for your friends to talk about. 

If you want something elaborate, that's our 
middle name. Something less expensive, we 
are there with the goods. 

You don't have to worry. We bring every- 
thing with us. 

Take our advice and telephone for this spe- 
cialist at once. 

We have specialized on these things for the 
past eight years and know just what you re- 
quire. 

BRIDES' CAKES WEDDING CAKES 

BIRTHDAY CAKES WEDDING CAKE BOXES 

Telephones 2116 and 4793-R 

cTVlARDEN ^e Caterer 

LYNN 



The best of everythiiir Menus and suggestions 

served in the best 1}0S- without a murmur, 

sible way. 



Candy 



POPCORN CANDY 

ONE cup white sugar, half cup water, one tablespoon butter. 
Cook until ready to candy, then stir in two quarts popcorn. 
Mould into balls, or pour into pan and mark off in bars. 

PENUCHIE 

Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup milk with a small piece of 
butter. Boil until hard in cold water, then add one cup chopped 
nuts, one teaspoon vanilla. Stir until it grains then turn into a tin 
to c3oL Cut in squares. 

CARAMELS, CHOCOLATE 

One-half cup molasses, one cup sugar, one-half cup milk, one-half 
teaspoon flour, small piece butter, one-fourth pound chocolate. Boil 
until hard, turn into pan, mark in squares before it becomes hard. 

FRENCH FUDGE 

One pound brown sugar, one-half pound English walnuts, one- 
fourth cup milk, butter size of an egg. Boil ten minutes, add chopped 
walnuts and beat. 

PEANUT CANDY 

One and one-half cups molasses, three-fourths cup sugar, one 
big spoonful vinegar, a piece of butter. Boil until brittle, then put 
in peanuts and a heaping teaspoon soda, and pour into buttered tins. 

HOME-MADE PEPPERMINTS 

Two cups granulated sugar, one-quarter cup water. When it 
comes to a boil add two teaspoons corn starch dissolved in a little 
water. Boil five to eight minutes, then take from stove and add six 
or eight drops of peppermint oil, cream a few minutes, then drop on 
well buttered pans. The same recipe can be used with any flavoring. 

WALNUT CREAMS 

Fondant (uncooked), two tablespoonfuls milk, one tablespoonfu' 
melted butter, one half cup powdered sugar, one half teaspoonfu! 
Baker's vanilla, sugar to make stiff enough to handle. Shape in small 
balls and press half of walnut meats inside. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 







Just suggest to that "Fond Hope" of yours that you'd like 
to visit LYNN'S FINEST GRILL for a steak or a 
broiled live lobster, before the knot is tied. 

Afterwards, v.-hen you really must be careful of the pen- 
nies for the first year, a bite at one of our DAIRY 
LUNCHES is mighty fine. 

We have a private Banquet Hall that is at your service 
for the wedding supper, or even the ceremony, ii' 
you'd like it, and we'd be glad to talk it over with 
you in regard to a wedding breakfast or entertain- 
ment and supper after the big event,. 

LOCATIONS 

LYNN STORES 
16 Central Square 170 Broad St. 

9 The Arcade 396 Washington St. 

11 Willow St. 18 Central Sq. 

BOSTON STORES 

7 Dock Square 111 Causeway St. 

Office 11 The Arcade Phone Lynn 429 




INCORPORATED 



MAPLE SUGAR CANDY 

One cup granulated sugar, one and one-half cups maple sugar 
or syrup, butter size of walnut. Cook until it hardens. 

WHITE CANDY 

Two cups of sugar, one fourth cup of vinegar, one fourth cup of 
hot water, one fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one teaspoon- 
ful of butter. Boil until it hardens quickly in cold water. Do not 
stir. When cold pull till white. Flavor. 

DIVINITY FUDGE 

Two cups sugar, one half cup Karo corn syrup, one half cup wa 
ter, pinch of salt. Boil until thread is foi-med, then take from stove 
and add whites of two eggs beaten very stiff, one cup walnuts, beat 
until stiff. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

Two cups granulated sugar, one cup powdered sugar, one cup 
milk, two squares chocolats or three teaspoonfuls cocoa. Boil ten 
minutes and then take from stove and add large piece of butter, pinch 
of salt, Baker's vanilla and beat until stiff. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

Two cups molasses, one cup sugar, one tablespoon vinegar, boil 
ten minutes, stirring all the time, add butter size of walnut, and one • 
fourth teaspoon saleratus. 

COCOANUT CANDY 

Two cups light brown sugar, one half teaspoonful salt, one hall' 
teaspoonful Baker's vanilla, three fourths cup milk, one tablespoon 
butter, one half cup cocoanut. Mix sugar and milk, cook to soft ball 
stage, add butter and cocoanut. Beat and add Baker's vanilla. 

TAFFY 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup molasses, two tablespoons vine- 
gar, butter the size of an egg. Boil until it strings, pour into but- 
tered plates, pull when cool. 

STUFFED DATES 

Remove stones from dates, insert salted peanuts or almonds, roll 
in fine granulated sugar. 



NUT FUDGE 

Three cups brown sugar, one cup white sugar, one cup milk, one 
cup chopped walnut meats. Cook until it will gum in water. 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 



FRESH EGGS 



Eggs have the highest food 
value of any known edible, 
but we Americans appre- 
ciate them only when they 
are fresh. 

We specialize in 

STRICTLY 

FRESH 

EGGS 

OUR EGGS come in fresh every 
day. Right from our Poultry 
farms. We charge no more than 
you would pay elsewhere for in- 
ferior quality. 



"24 HOURS FROM NEST TO YOU" 

LYNN BIRD ^ SEED STORE 

122 OXFORD STREET 



TIME REQUIRED FOR: 

BAKING Coffee, 3 to 5 min. 

Beans, 8 to 10 hours. Com, green, 5 to 8 min. 

Beef, rolled rib or rump, per lb., Corned Beef, 4 to 5 hours. 



12 to 15 min. 
Bread, brick loaf, 40 to 60 m 
Biscuit, 10 to 20 min. 
Cake, plain, 20 to 40 min. 
Chickens, 3 to 4 lbs. weight, 1 

I'/i hrs. 
( ustards, 15 to 20 min. 
Fish, 6 to 8 lbs., 1 hour. 
Gingerbread, 20 to 30 min. 
Graham Gems, 30 min. 
Lamb, well done, per lb., 15 min 
Meat, braised, 3 to 4 hours. 
Pie Crust, 30 to 40 min. 
Pork, well done, per lb., 30 min. 
Potatoes, 30 to 45 min. 
Pudding, Bread, Rice and 

Tapioca. 1 hour. 

BOILING 
Asparagus, 15 to 20 min. 
Bass, per lb., 10 min. 
Heans, shell, 1 to 2 hours. 
Beef-a-la-mode, 3 to 4 hours 
Peets, young, 45 to 60 min. 
Brown Bread, 3 hours. 
Cabbage, young, 30 to 45 min. 
Chickens, 45 to 60 min. 
Clams, 3 to 5 min. 



Fowls, 2 to 3 hours. 
1. Ham, 5 hours. 

Lamb, 1 hour. 

Macaroni, 20 to 30 min. 
to Onions, 30 to 45 min. 

Oysters, 3 min. 

Peas, 15 to 20 min. 

Potatoes, 20 to 30 min. 

P.ice, 15 to 20 min. 

Small Fish, per lb., 6 min. 

Spinach, 20 to 30 min. 

Tomatoes, 15 to 20 min. 

"('ui-key, 2 to 3 hours. 

Veal, 2 to .■? hours. 

BROILING 

Chickens, 20 min. 

Chops, 8 min. 

Steak, 1 inch thick, 4 to 6 min. 

Steak. IV2 inch thick, 6 to 8 min. 

Fish, thick, 12 to 15 min. 
FRYING 

Bacon, 3 to 5 min. 

Breaded Chops, 4 to 6 min. 

Croquettes, 1 min. 

Doughnuts, 3 to 5 min. 

Fish Balls, 1 min. 

Fritters, 3 to 5 min. 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

Four teaspoonfuls of liquid one tablespoonfu' 

Two gills of liquid one cup or one-half pint 

Two round tablespoonfuls of flour one ounce 

Four cups of bread flour one quart or one pound 

One cup butter one-half pound 

One tablespoonful of butter one ounce 

Butter the size of an egg two ounces 

Two cups of granulated sugar one pound 

Two and one-half cups of powdered sugar one pound 



MENTION THE BRIDE BOOK 






(Enngratulaltana auii iSest UiBljra 



Harry W. Crooker 

31 MUNROE STREET 
LYNN, MASS. 

COLUMBIA GRAFONOLAS 

EDISON PHONOGRAPHS 

PLAYER PIANOS 

MUSIC ROLLS 

RECORDS 

PIANOS 







f^t^(^t^(?s7ll^l^lTS?ll^l!^l^t?S?)rrS\1t7Sf1t^rr8<1t7S<1t^ 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 



When ftesh vegetables are 
used, remember that a dash of 
soda helps to keep the color in 
green vegetables, and that salt 
darkens cabbage, cauliflower, or 
Brussels sprouts. In general, 
salt should never be added until 
the vegetable is half done. 

Always hang sheets fastened 
to the clothes-line with the two 
hems pinned together with 
clothespins, and they will stretch 
the same amount on all sides and 
hang much more evenly than if 
hung through the middle. 

For cleaning the kitchen range, 
use waxed paper that comes 
around loaves of bread. You will 
find it removes the ashes and dirt 
and gives the stove an appear- 
ance of having been blacked. 

.4 "dotibtfnl" colored sweater 
may be successfully washed if 
the sweater is' first soaked in one 
third pail of lukewarm water ti 
which has been added three ta 
blespoons of turpentine and a 
cup of salt. 

/» using fillings for sandwiches 
that are liable to soak in, such 
as mayonnaise or jelly, butter 
both slices of bread. For other 
fillings butter only one sUce and 
spread the other slice with the 
filling. 

To wash cut glass, place the 
articles in a pan of soft water, to 
which a little washing blue ha^ 
been added and scrub it with a 
brush. Dry with a soft cloth and 
you will have a fine polish with- 
out rubbing. 



Linoleum will keep bright and 
last longer if you apply white 
shellac with a clean paint brush 
two or three times a year. Lin- 
oleum should be clean and dry 
before shellac is put on and be 
careful not to lap the strokes. 

When separating the whites 
from the yolks of eggs, if a part 
of the yolk is accidentally broken 
into the water, dip a clean cloth 
into warm water and wring dry. 
Touch the yolk with the cloth 
and it will cling to it. 

In removing a good stamp 
from an envelope, cut a blotter to 
the size of the stamp, soak it in 
cold water and then lay it over 
the stamp. In a few minutes re- 
move blotter and the stamp will 
come off as good as when new. 

An excellent liquid for clean- 
ing spots on woolen or silk is 
made from a potato. Put the 
raw potato through the food- 
grinder, add one cup of cold wa- 
ter, boil ten minutes, strain. Use 
the liquid to clean the soiled 
spots; if they are especially stub- 
born, add a small amount of 
powdered borax or powdered am- 
monia to the starchy water. Po- 
tato water, in its role as clean- 
ser, is used in Belgium today as 
a substitute for soap. Scraped 
raw potato is also an excellent 
emergency remedy for a burn. 

When ink is spilled on white 
goods of any kind, apply fu'l 
strength, hydrogen peroxide, at 
at once, afterwards washing and 
rinsing in the usual way. 



MENTION IHE 



NOW LITTLE MRS. NEWLYWED: 

\T OU have read all the pages in this book up to this one; you have 
learned h ;w t3 cock, you have lear..ed how to keep house, anil 
learned where to buy almost everything necessary to establish that 
home of your own. But I reserved this space next to the Lynn Gas 
Co., because two of the most important things that will go into that 
new home will be the P'Mno for the parlar and the Gas Range for the 
kitchen. 

When the piano question presents itself, ple:ise be:xr these fact>. 
in mind. I carry a Larger Stock of Pianos to choose from than any 
other store in Lynn, at the Lorest Prices on the Easiest Terms and 
No Interest. 

Just because you have not had a great amount of experience in 
buying household "goods, don't let any smooth salesman talk you into 
buying a piano on the &'; interest bearing "ease plan, when you cavi 
buv from me at a Loner Prite and No Intcre!=t. 



LARGEST PIANO 




EI'.4Sr. & Fi O ^A^ N 

12 ft 14 CITY MALL SQ, OPPOSITE CITYHALL 



FOR A REAL BARGAIN 

Where you can buy a PL\NO or PHONOGRAPH under the 
easiest purchasing conditions 

See BROWN 

The Cut-Price Piano and Phonograph Mnn 

12-14 CITY HALL SQUARE, LYNN 

Dirrrthi On-oos^te CUv Hn'l vherp yvi n-c-" prcfnted fifh thi.f bool- 




Coming Brides, Attention. 



H 



ERE'S just, a little tip that may mean much 
to your happiness a little later on — 

When you are talking to "him" about the new 
home don't fail to put in a word for a new 

Cabinet Gas Range 

You'll want a thoroughly modern kitchen in which to 
start off on successful housekeeping. You'll need a Gas 
Kange. You'll want one, too, because it will make it eas- 
ier for you to cook the things "he" will like. No fuss, 
muss, dirt or waste to Gas Range cooking — and you'll 
have lots more time to yourself. 



mii$ ^^^\(.C'. 



HOME 



On this great earth, the dearest and 
sweetest spot. Home — where cares 
and troubles melt away under Love's 
magic wand. 

Scenes that are brightest arise from the 
happy home; each one with its fur- 
niture picturing comfort, beauty, 
happiness and success. 

To the Bride- and Groom-to-be, the Hill 
& Welch store is dedicated. It is a 
home - making institution whose 
counsel and well-chosen merchan- 
dise make real, those joyful scenes. 

With our wish for your Happiness, we 
must add, visit such guides of the 
Home. 



ch COo 



MUNROE ST. OXFORD ST. 

'■'■What you buy we standby" 



M 


it 



K 



