r 










GETT THE HABIT ! 



OF-FTtCIAL. EDITION 



EAT MORE nSH 



COMPILED BY W. I. CRAWFORD 
SEATTLE 



200 WAYS 

TO PREPARE 

Fresh Fish, Salt Fish 

Dried Fish, Smoked Fish 

and Canned Fish 

Salmon, Cod, Halibut 
Mackerel, Haddock 

Yellowtail, Sable Fish 
Snapper, Bass, Etc. 

Oysters, Clams, Crab 
Shrimp, Eels, Etc. 



PRICE $1.00 
Mail Address, Box 283, Seattle, U. S. A. 




opyrlglit, 1920 



C1A574735 



Abu ■ .- iJ^'J 



-T 



(^ 



» y; 



EAT MORE FISH 



INTRODUCTION 



The writer, who is a salmon canner, was formerly secre- 
tary of the Puget Sound Salmon Canners Association and Asso- 
ciation of Alaska Salmon Packers; is the author of various 
pamphlets on salmon, and has made hundreds of stereopticon 
views of the great fisheries; he is sole owner of Crawford's 
Motion Pictures, "The Story of the Salmon — The Great Fishing 
Fleet in Action"; he has given a great deal of time to educa- 
tional work, believing that the people — especially the schools — 
should be shown and made acquainted with the wonderful food 
value of fish — and the great fishing industry. 

In order to further educate the people he has compiled this 
book, "Eat More Fish," which gives more information about fish 
than has ever been published before, in this form, as well as 
much valuable information for the housewife, and all the people; 
also many tested and economical recipes. 

This book, "Eat More Fish," is dedicated to the conserving 
of food and with the hope that it will make for a better and 
stronger people, for we believe a patriotic spirit, health, strength, 
a vigorous mind and body are man's best heritage for his pos- 
terity, all of which will be more likely if he "Eat More Fish." 

W. I. CRAWFORD, 

Seattle. 



THIS BOOK CONTAINS 

Over 100 recipes for preparing canned salmon alone, with name 
and address of originators of 50 as well as 50 from the U. S. 
Bureau of Fisheries, Official Bulletin No. 11, as well as many 
other recipes authorized by the Federal Bureau, Naval Marine 
Service, etc. 

Information about canned salmon, grades and labels, how 
to tell if fish is good or bad, miscellaneous useful information 
for the housewife, special recipes covering other lines of food 
products, etc., etc. 




A Vision — ^Alaska King Salmon 



EAT MORE FISH 



Salmon Cannery Should Be as Clean as a Home Kitchen. 




Cannery Operated by Mr. Crawford, Showing Hand Fillers. 



Copyright 

\V. I. CRAWFORD 

Publisher 

Box 283, Seattle 




Cannery Operated by Mr. Crawford, Showing Machine Line and 
General Interior — Old Style Processing. 



BAT MORE FISH 



FARMING THE SEA 

By W. I. CRAWFORD 
Seattle 

(Published in the Westerner, February, 1913) 

The tiller of the soil, at the cost of much study and money, and incessant 
labor, must put back into the ground, every year, besides his annual plant- 
ing of seed, a large percentage of that which he takes from it in crops. If 
he does not, within a shoi't time he has impoverished his land, and the 
gradual diminishing and final failure of crops is his inevitable and direful 
result. He must plow and harrow and test and fertilize and cultivate year 
in, year out, without end, in order to reap an average crop — to "hold his 
ground" with the product of the years before. 

But the "farmer" of the sea — the fisherman — he neither fertilizes the 
waters nor cultivates them; he thinks not of nitrates nor phosphates, nor 
lime nor legumes, and he does but reap, reap, every year an ever-increasing 
crop of fish; reaps and packs, reaps and packs the world's food of fish, that 
has built for our country a growing mountain of wealth. In recent years, 
the friend of the farmer of the sea, the states and federal government, has 
perfected the method of planting the fish, that the fisherman may not only 
continue to reap a normal harvest, but an ever-increasing harvest; and he 
has no concern with the growth and development of the seed that is planted, 
for he knows that the sea, which has sustenance for all the life that can 
find room within it, will take care of that. 

The resources of the sea pass all human understanding, but today we 
begin faintly to realize that they are inexhaustible. Mention of the un- 
equaled fishing industry of the Pacific Coast to most people means Salmon. 
Their thoughts on the subject seldom include the vast wealth of other 
varieties of food fish taken on our Pacific Ocean shores. Yet the details of 
the wonderful story of this peculiar, plentiful and palatable pink- and light- 
fleshed product of our Pacific waters are far from being realized even by 
those who know it to be a wonderful story. 

Our salmon industry began somewhat less than fifty years ago, and five 
hundred millions of dollars will not pay for the total salmon pack of the 
years that have followed, and another hundred million for fish salted, mild 
cured, kippered, pickled, etc. (The pack of salmon the first year of record 
amounted to about 8,000 cases, and leaping yearly by the tens of thousands 
of cases, the tremendous expansion of the industry is indicated by the pack 
of 10,000,000 cases for the year 1918. These figures concern entirely the 
salmon packed in tins — canned salmon.) Millions and millions of dollars 
additional are represented in the fish of that one tribe alone which were 
caught and consumed in other ways. 

Roughly, the fish of all kinds taken from our Pacific Coast waters, from 
California to Alaska, have approximated a yearly value of fifty millions of 
dollars for the past ten years, and the salmon has represented $40,000,000 
of that huge annual pile of wealth. Yet this tremendous total will be greatly 
augmented in future annual fish reports for the Pacific Coast, because of the 
addition of many new salmon canneries and the enlargement of the capaci- 
ties of most of the old ones. This means the increasing of the fishing fleets 
and the facilities for catching the salmon, to say nothing of the installation 
of much modern machinery. « 

Some idea of the existing size 2of'ttie salmon packing industry will be 
had from the following statement bf« tjie cost of maintaining it: In one 
year the salmon industry for labor, approximately $9,000,000; fish, $9,000,- 
000; cans, solder, acid, etc., $7,000,000; general and overhead expenses, taxes, 
etc., $5,000,000; cannery fleet, $4,300,000; transportation, $1,900,000; boxes, 
$1,000,000; insurance, storage, $500,000; labels, $400,000; lacquer, $300,- 
000; fuel, light and power, $500,000; supplies, $600,000. 

Besides supplying the world with one of its most popular food staples, 
and one which analysis shows to contain almost fifty per cent more nourish- 



EAT MORE FISH 



ment than sirloin steak at less cost, the great fishing industiT constitutes 
a regular market for the Pacific Coast farmer and grocer to the extent 
of $3,000,000 a year, a market which will not only be permanent, but 
progressive with the growth of the industry. The tiller of the soil on the 
Pacific Coast, and especially the farmer in the Pacific Northwest, owes a 
co-operative duty to his brother who farms the sea. and he certainly should 
avail himself of every possible piece of information relating to the sea 
industry from which he derives such great benefits. 

SUPPLY DIMINISHING 

It is a common habit of mind to regard the business of fishing as a 
diminishing industry, and people look forward to the time when fish will be 
missing from the daily menus, much as they think of the disappearing for- 
ests and seals, and many expect, when they read of the enormous number 
of fish caught in the North Pacific waters each year, that before long the 
fish will have gone from the earth like the buffalo from our plains, with 
perhaps a few weakly denatured specimens preserved with great difficulty 
in our more pretentious aquariums. 

Which will be the result unless wise and maybe drastic laws are made 
and enforced for the protection and conservation of all the species of salmon. 
It is only a matter of time until all food fish will have to be protected in 
order that the future supply may be assured. 

When the fish swam in wild and unexplored rivers, lakes and streams, 
and the Indians were the only inhabitants of this territory, nature provided 
for the natural reproduction and maintenance of the fish. But with the 
advent of the white race, the establishment of commerce and the con- 
veniences and facilities of a higher standard of civilization, with all its 
tendency of good as well as evil, out of necessity, these things were destruc- 
tive to the fish of our streams, where man has built sewers, great power 
dams, saw mills, irrigation canals and other improvements interfering with 
the progress of the salmon and other fish as they made their way up these 
streams toward their natural spawning grounds. 

The salmon come in from the ocean and go into the different fresh 
water streams for the purpose of spawning. The spring, chinook or king, 
which is the largest of the salmon, often weighing over 60 pounds, only 
enter large rivers for the purpose of spawning. They climb up and up until 
the headwaters are reached, often jumping sevei'al feet over riffles and 
rocks. 

The blueback red or sockeye salmon, which averages about six pounds 
in weight, rarely enters any river which does not rise in snow-fed lakes. 

The pink or humpback is the smallest of the salmon and for spawning pur- 
poses enters only the small streams, lagoons, etc. Sometimes they spawn 
but a short distance from the ocean. 

The coho or silver salmon run in the spring, fall and early winter, when 
the waters are high. They usually seek the large rivers, but are not so 
persistent as the spring salmon in reaching the headwaters for spawning. 

Chum salmon usually run in the shallow streams, spawning in any place 
in fresh water where they find lodgment for the eggs or spawn. 

There was a time Avhen the salmon came in from tbe sea to spawn 
in such numbers as to form an almost compact mass filling the stream; 
they floundered up the shallows of the* freshwater stream, surmounted the 
falls by leaps that were miraculou9«*nej/er pausing, never turning, and hur- 
rying at the utmost speed on their :pi^ity errand. 

In spawning, the male salmon, sometimes the female, will, with tail or 
fins, excavate a small hollow place in the gravel or sand, into which the 
female will deposit the eggs or spawn. Immediately, or shortly, after the 
spawn is deposited by the female, the male fish will cover the eggs and 
deposit thereon its milt or spermatic fluid (resembling ordinary milk in 
apearance), which is absorbed by the eggs, fertilizing them and at the same 
time hardening them. The fresh, cool water running continuously over the 



EAT MORE FISH 




EAT MORE FISH 



eggs will hatch them out In 50 to 60 days, depending upon the temperature 
of the water. 

The king or spring salmon deposits from 2,000 to 6,000 eggs, depending 
upon its weight; the sockeye averages about 1,200; the humpback about 400; 
the coho or silver salmon about 2,000, and the chum possibly about 2,000 
eggs each, while the steelhead will deposit 3,500 or more eggs at a time. 

ARTIFICIAL PROPAGATION 

As stated above owing to the many power dams and other improvements 
which act as impediments to the spawning salmon, because they prevent 
them from reaching their natural spawning grounds, science has hit upon 
a way artificially to propagate or hatch this fish — the method really amounts 
to the assistance of nature in such a way as to immensely increase the cer- 
tainty of the yield, and insures the supply required by the demands of com- 
merce, not only maintaining the supply, but enormously increasing it, as is 
evidenced by the increasing yearly pack where it has been tried. 

The salmon are taken with a net or caught in an impounding trap, 
where they are held until they are what is termed "ripe" or ready to spawn. 
The operator or fish catcher will take the female salmon and kill it. Im- 
mediately he cuts it open, stripping it of its eggs or spawn, which are 
placed in a pail. Then the male fish is taken up and the milt extracted 
by pressure and poured over the eggs, fertilizing them practically the same 
as by nature. This process is repeated upon other fish until the pail, holding 
25,000 or 30,000 eggs, is full. The eggs are allowed to stand for about 40 
minutes, when they become separated from each other. All dead eggs are 
washed out and thrown away, the balance being put into the hatchery 
troughs and set in the running water on the hatchery floor. 

REARING PONDS 

Rearing ponds are now being used to retain the small salmon, feeding 
them until they are strong and better able to protect themselves from 
their natural enemies in the streams. This improvement in salmon propaga- 
tion insures the future increase in numbers of that fish. When released 
the small salmon in due time seek the ocean, where, so far as we know, the 
spring salmon remains from four to five years, the sockeye three to four 
years, and possibly five years, the humpback two years and the other species 
two to four years, when they return to spawn in the streams or waters in 
which they were propagated. It is estimated that in the natural spawning 
of the salmon as much as eighty per cent of the spawn and small salmon 
are consumed by their enemies. Hence but twenty per cent ever reach 
the ocean, while under artificial propagation it is possible to save 60 to 80 
per cent of the fry. and with the rearing pond system, possibly 90 per cent 
will safely reach the ocean. It is now a well authenticated fact that the 
spring or chinook salmon and also the sockeye, which have ascended the 
rivers a long way from the ocean, after spawning die, never returning to 
the ocean. 

Strange as it may seem, the salmon business is one industry that is 
perpetuating itself without any cost or expense to the state or people at 
large. The entire expense of building, maintaining and operating the fish 
hatcheries, salaries of the fish wardens, patrol service, etc., is paid by the 
fisheries interests in taxes, license fees, etc. 



EAT MORE FISH 



FOOD VALUE OF SALMON 
By W. I. CRAWFORD 

(From Trade Register, 1913) 
PART IV 

CANNED SALMON— ITS NUTRITIVE FOOD VALUE 

The Federal Government has published reports covering food values of 
many kinds of fish, which makes it possible for the writer to furnish much 
of the following. 

INVESTIGATION 

Just now the subject of the high cost of living, food values, and so forth, 
is a live one, and possibly as little understood as any other. 

Investigation has shown that fifty years ago, when canned salmon was 
first put on the market, or when the salmon industry was first established, 
it was impossible to determine the food value, or the combination of food 
materials, especially of fish and meat. 

The chemistry of food materials was practically unknown until about 
the year 1880, when it was discovered that by chemical analysis the com- 
position of food materials could be determined. 

FOOD VALUES 

It is not our purpose to write a scientific treatise on the subject of food 
values, but to briefly state some facts regarding the food value of Canned 
Salmon, which applies equally to other food fish. 

Over four thousand (4,000) separate analyses of foods gathered from 
different parts of this country have been made by the United States gov- 
ernment, the results of which are now available, and prove conclusively 
that the relative protein and nutritive value of foods can be determined, and 
that fish stands high in its nutritive or food value as compared with other 
meats. 

CHEMICAL COMPOSITION 

The chemical substances of which the body is composed are very similar 
to those of the foods which maintain it. They are made of the same chem- 
ical elements, and for that reason in this article are all classed, or dis- 
cussed together. 

From fifteen to twenty elements are found in the body, most abundant 
of which are oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, calcium, phosphorous, and sulphur. 
These elements are so combined as to form a great variety of compounds 
in both the body and the food. 

In the food, as well as in the body, the most important kinds of com- 
pounds are photein, fat, carbohydrates, mineral matter and water. The func- 
tions of these elements are to repair and rebuild tissues of the body, to 
supply it with heat and muscular energy. Water makes up about 60 per 
cent of the weight of the body and enters into all the tissues; 5 to 6 per 
cent of the body is composed of mineral ash, or waste matter, which supplies 
little, if any, nutriment, yet is a very important factor in the body. 

PROTEIN 

Protein is a term used to describe that element of the body which in- 
cludes the principal nitrogenous compounds, so familiar to us, as the gluten 
of wheat, and especially is it prominent in canned salmon. 

Protein Is the principal tissue former of the protein compounds, making 
up fully 18 per cent of the weight of the body; supplying the albumenoids 
of the blood, milk, and other fluids; building up and repairing the nitrogen- 
ous factors, such as muscles and tendons. Protein is a flesh former, and its 
compounds consists of the belatinoides and almumenoids, which classed to- 
gether are termed "proteids," and are so known to the medical profession. 



EAT MORE FISH 



All authorities agree that they are the most important constituents of our 
food, being the basis of bone, muscle, energy, and the tissues, and essential 
to bodily structure. 

FAT 

Fat, as found to exist in fish, cream, butter, and many of the vegetables 
and cereals, supplies the body with the constituents wlfxeh, in a sense, are 
burned in order to furnish heat and energy. 

The body fat varies greatly with the food, exercise, age and other indi- 
vidual conditions of the particular person. It is a fact that when more food 
of this character than is necessary to be taken, the fat will be stored in the 
body, and in combination with the protein becomes body protein and body 
fat, which, when the food supply is short, is drawn upon to supply heat and 
energy, as well as strength. About 15 per cent of the weight of the body is 
usually body fat. 

Less than 1 per cent of the weight, or proportion, of the body is com- 
posed of the carbohydrates, which are generally found in sugars, vegetables, 
cereals, grains, and potatoes, the larger part of each being transformed into 
fat in the body. However, sugar and starch are abundant in ordinary foods, 
and are important factors in the body on account of being easily digested 
and furnishing a great source of energy. 

WASTE 

Much of the foods we buy in the market is waste, such as shells of eggs, 
bone, gristle, etc., and are generally thrown away. Yet all these contain 
the same elements in different proportion as does the food which we eat, 
and if properly prepared much of it would make good food. A great many 
times splendid food is classed as waste, or refuse, simply because the flavor, 
or taste, is objectionable. 

All the organs of the body, all tissues, muscles, the brain, the flesh, the 
bones, skin and veins, are built up of the nutritive, elements, and particularly 
of protein. It is a scientific fact that every motion, movement, or suggestion 
of the brain or body consumes some material which some other factor of 
the body must supply with material to repair, rebuild or make up. 

The foregoing synopsis, or outline, pertaining to the elements and sub- 
stances which go to make up and sustain the body, as shown by actual test 
reported by the government, is given here in order that the reader may 
realize the fact that nutriment and strength may be had by an intelligent 
and proper understanding of the food materials which he eats. 

It is stated that sickness causes 42 per cent of the poverty in the 
United States. Therefore, it is only natural that we ask what is the remedy, 
and our answer would be based on the following: 

If practical demonstration of food values, and education along these 
lines, were made compulsory in our schools, the rising generation would 
know what to feed the body, the kind of food necessary to supply the ele- 
ments needed in order to eliminate sickness, and to rebuild, repair and sus- 
tain the body. 

The writer believes success, prosperity, happiness, and health do not 
depend upon the power of or accumulation of gold, but rather upon the 
successful pursuit of one's profession (scientific), common sense in feeding 
the body, for the same beneficent Creator who makes the sea, the fish 
therein, the earth and its fruits, also made man, and it should be man's 
highest aim to accomplish more and increasing good each day, to honestly 
acquire and accumulate money, property and influence in order that he might 
more readily achieve his purpose in life. And that doing these, he must flrst 
know himself and learn that health, strength, a vigorous mind and body, 
and a pure life, are the best heritage for his posterity. 

The above being true, we feel that we are only doing our part in this 
great plan for conserving food and making for a better and stronger people 
when we tell the story of fish, its nutritive values, the sanitary process of 
preparing it for the table. 



II 



EAT MORE FISH 




A Mile of Boats at Buyers' Scow, a Wonderful Scene in the Movies 



10 



EAT MORE FISH 



!' 




At the Gang Knives, Cutting Fish. 



THE STORY OF THE SALMON 

(By W. I. Crawford.) 

The Salmon is a citizen of credit and renown; 

He feeds the poor, and feeds the rich, of almost every town. 

They ne'er before such food did eat, it satisfies them so — 

For salmon canned, served hot or cold, will never bring them woe. 

Each year the whole Pacific Coast, no matter what its mood. 
With fishing boats makes wondrous hauls of this the King of Food. 
Sometimes the run is small, 'tis then that many packers roar. 
For all the markets in the land are crying, "Give us more." 

From hatcheries back in the hills the little fish advance, 

And to the ocean pass along, and eat at every chance. 

Some kinds come back in two short years — while others come in four, 

But when they come, they're caught and canned, and sold from many a store. 

King, Sockeye, Spring, Alaska Red, Humpback, Chinook, and Chum, 
There is a great variety to choose your favorite from. 
They all are rich in nutriment; they make men wise and strong. 
They build the brain and muscle up, and make life sure and long. 

Year after year they go and come. Year after year they're caught. 

And people eat them just the same, in weather cold or hot. 

Now, some have never tried this rich and satisfying dish. 

But once they've tasted it they'll say — "It is the King of Fish!" 

And so on down through history of man and bird and beast. 
The story will repeat itself in both the West and East. 
The fish will go and fish will come, and men will rule and sway. 
While Salmon still its lead will keep, forever and a day! 



EAT MORE FISH 11 



INFORMATION ABOUT CANNED SALMON 
(By W. I. Crawford.) 
THE SALMON 

(A) How Caught — On the Pacific Coast salmon for canning purposes 
are caught or taken in purse seines, haul or drag seines, gill nets, set nets, 
dip nets, fish wheels, traps or pound nets, or by troll fishermen. They first 
are delivered to certain points or buying stations adjacent to the fishing 
banks, and from there taken to the canneries by fast power boats. Here 
the heads, fins, tails, scales and entrails are removed by machinery. 

After being thoroughly cleaned, washed and scrubbed, the salmon passes 
through gang knives and is cut into proper sized pieces for the can, and 
then fed into the filling machines which automatically fill the cans, or the 
fish is taken by hand fillers, who carefully fill each can. 

Processing: — In most all canneries the cans are filled by machinery, 
and as the empty cans are conveyed to the filling machine an attachment 
automatically delivers into the can, if a one pound can one quarter ounce of 
refined salt, if a half poimd can one half as much which is the only ingredi- 
ent except the raw fish that goes into the can. 

After being filled and inspected, the cans are passed through an auto- 
matic weighing machine which throws out the light weight cans and passes 
the proper weight cans on to a belt which conveys them to the steam or ex- 
haust box, this is a covered or enclosed box into which live steam is turned, 
the cans are carried through this box, sometimes with the tops loosely fitted 
on and sometimes without the tops, for a period of time varying from 7 to 
14 minutes with the steam at a temperature of about 210 degrees F. which 
is the first known method for exhausting the can before sealing. Some 
Canneries use what is termed "a Vacuum machine" as it will accomplish 
the same purpose, after being thus exhausted the cans are run through the 
topping and closing machines which puts the top on and rolls the edge 
down, hermetically sealing the can. 

The cans are now placed in large iron trays or what is termed coolers, 
conveyed to the steam retort where they are cooked for 80 to 100 minutes at 
a temperature of 240 to 250 degrees and a pressure of 10 to 12 pounds. The 
writer has found that if cans are piled with much open space that 90 min- 
utes, 242 degrees and 10 lbs. pressure insures perfect processing of any 
good fish, and softens the bones of the salmon so that as a food product, 
canned fish is an absolutely pure food, high in protein and rich in oil, more 
than meeting the rigid requirements of the pure food laws, the rules of the 
department of chemistry, etc. 

Color of Salmon: — It is not generally known, but it is a fact that all 
salmon are not red or what is known as salmon colored. Sockeye, red, 
blueback, the red spring, king or chinook always hold their red color in 
the can v.'hile most all other salmon will not retain the red color, the silver- 
side, cohoe or medium I'ed turn to sometimes a very light red, hence the 
name "Med. Red"; the humpback or pink salmon will be found to be light 
pink, the chum, or keta, turn white and sometimes a yellowish grey color. 
All salmon if canned when fresh and properly processed will stand up quite 
solid when turned out of the can. 

(B) Salmon is Canned in Three Sizes or Styles of Packages — One 
pound tails, one pound flats and one-half pound flats, however, the shape of 
the can does not signify any particular grade or quality of fish. 

(C) Some Facts About Grades and Labels — There are five grades or 
kinds of salmon taken on the Pacific Coast. 

1. Spring salmon. King salmon, Chinook salmon and Quinnat salmon 
belong to the same class and are known and labelled Springs and Tyee on 
Puget Sound, Kings in Alaska and Chinook on the Columbia River, and 
Quinnat in other places. Flesh is pale to deep pink and fine flavor. 

2. Sockeye, Blueback, Reds and Alaska Reds are taken on Puget Sound, 
in the Columbia River, in Alaska and the Fraser River, and are labelled in 



EAT MORE FISH 



the trade under these names. Flesh is firm, rich deep red color, fine flavor. 

3. Cohoe or Silver salmon are known in the trade and labelled "Medium 
Reds," "Silver-sides" and "Cohoe Salmon," and is a good food fish but does 
not retain its red color in the can, flesh is firm and solid. 

4. Humpback salmon, usually labelled "pinks," is the smallest and a 
most prolific salmon. It stands well as a food fish, having a large percentage 
of food value and compared to its food value is perhaps the cheapest 
canned food product on the market, its fiesh is not so solid. 

5. Chum salmon is another food fish and a very good one; dried and 
smoked it comprises the pi'incipal food supply of the Indians and natives. 
It does not show the red color after cooking, and is not so fine in flavor as 
the other grades. 

Canned salmon is usually rated in the order given above and one should 
use their own discretion in selecting the particular grade desired, as the 
main difference is in the color and flavor and amount of fat or oil contained 
in the fish. This oil is rich in protein and should be used. 

(D) How to Heat a Can of Salmon — Place the can in a saucepan and 
cover with hoiling water, boil 15 minutes; this will thoroughly heat the con- 
tents. Or if boiling any other food you can put the can in a pan and set 
in same kettle, allowing the steam to heat the salmon. 

(E) How to Open the Can — First remove the label, then lay the can 
on its side upon the table, then insert the point of the can opener close to 
the side seam at the top, now set the can on end and with the hand press 
down on the top while working the can opener around the top seam or ream 
of the can until it comes to the side seam again, then lift the top and it 
will easily break off, leaving the entire contents exposed. Now pour oif 
the oil or liquid into a side dish, turn the can over, punch a hole through 
the bottom and the contents will come out in unbroken form. 

(F) How to Tell if the Contents of Can Is Good — If upon opening the 
can no bad odor is prevalent and the flesh is clean and bright, with oil or 
liquid present, you may depend upon it being good, while if a bad odor is 
noticeable or if no liquid or oil is present, or if the can and the flsh are 
dirty and mushy it is best to not eat it, better return the can to the dealer 
and ask him to report it to the jobber. 

RELATIVE FOOD VALUE OF CANNED SALMON 
United States Bulletin 142 shows relative food value of canned salmon 
as compared with other foods. 

CANNED SALMON .218 Spring Chicken .120 

Sirloin Steak .165 White Bread .090 

Sugar-cured Ham .142 Rice .080 

Macaroni .134 Baked Beans (canned) .069 

Eggs .131 Potatoes .018 

FOOD VALUES are rated in calories: Average healthy person requires 
1000 calories per day; 100 of these should be fish. A one-pound can of 
salmon contain 500 to 850 calories, depending largely upon quantity of 
oil in it. 

SPECIAL RECIPES FOR PREPARING SALMON 

NOTE: The following original recipes were sent into the Salmon 
Canners Association in response to request for special recipes for pre- 
paring salmon for the table, by the persons whose names and addresses 
appear. 

SALMON TURBOT 
Mrs. R. D. Pinneo, 1153 17th Ave. No., Seattle 

One pound can Pink Salmon. 

Dressing: One pint milk heated to boiling point, add three tablespoons 
flour, 2 eggs beaten light, salt, pepper to taste; mix flour with a little milk, 
pouring hot milk into eggs and flour. When thickening, use layer of salmon, 
then dressing, then salmon, till everything is used. Sprinkle bread crumbs 
on top. Bake in oven till brown. This will be enough to serve five or six 
persons. 



EAT MORE FISH 13 



SCALLOPED SALMON WITH MUSHROOMS 

Mrs. W. H. Cumming, 4051 lOtli Ave. N. E., Seattle 
One pound canned salmon; remove bones and skin, add one can mush- 
rooms cut small, one teaspoon onion juice, little salt and paprika. Mix 
with one cup white sauce and put in buttered baking dish. Cover with 
buttered cracker crumbs and sprinkle with grated cheese. Bake in hot 
oven twenty minutes or until a golden brown. This will serve from six to 
eight persons. 

SALMON ROLL 

Mrs. A. C. Batterson, 2253 W. 61st St., Seattle 

Three cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, 3 level teaspoons baking powder, 
sift all together three times, rub in % cup of shortening, add enough milk 
to make a biscuit dough, and roll into a sheet half an inch thick, having the 
ends even. Remove any bones or skin from one can of salmon, flake fine 
with a fork leaving any juice or oil with the fish, add two eggs well beaten, 
a grating of onion, 14 teaspoon cayenne, 1 teaspoon salt, use a little lemon 
juice and water to make a paste, spread fish paste over dough, and roll up 
like a jelly roll. Bake in a buttered pan 40 minutes. Brush over the out- 
side of roll with a little milk and return to oven to glaze. Serve hot with 
cream sauce flavored with Worchestershire. Will serve six to eight persons. 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

Mrs. S. B. Rogers, 5251 14th Ave. N. E., Seattle 

1 Pound can salmon 'z^ Cup butter 

14 Pound crackers Salt and pepper to taste 

1 Pint milk 

Remove all oil, skin and bones from salmon, pick fish to pieces. Butter 
baking dish, put layer of cracker crumbs in bottom, then layer of salmon 
with salt, pepper and bits of butter. Another layer of crackers, then salmon, 
salt, pepper and butter. Then cracker crumbs on top with bits of butter. 
Pour over all the milk till quite moist. Bake in a moderate oven 20 to 30 
minutes, till nicely browned. 

SALMON CHOPS 

Mrs. E. S. Hambleton, R. F. D., Pearson, Wash. 

One pound canned salmon; drain and remove skin and bones, pick to 
pieces with a fork. Make a hard white sauce. Stir the flaked fish into the 
hard sauce, add a half teaspoonful salt and a little pepper, and one-eighth 
teaspoonful or less of paprika; then set aside to cool, while you roll two 
shredded wheat biscuits, beat one egg and break some macaroni into four 
inch lengths. Make the chops by forming small oval cakes, dip in beaten 
egg, then in the shredded wheat biscuit crumbs, insert a stick of macaroni 
leaving the end of the stick out, fry in deep hot fat a golden brown, (I use 
Crisco) drain, and remove to a hot platter, garnish with parsley or lettuce 
leaves, and cut a lemon into quarters, or as perferred. 

Note: — ^Cracker crumbs or bread crumbs can be substituted for the 
shredded wheat biscuit with as good results. This recipe will be found to 
be sufficient for four people. 

Grades and Labels:— Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



14 



EAT MORE FISH 



SALMON CHOPS 

Miss Alice Ward Smith, 3774 14tli Ave., N. E., Seattle 



1 Sprig parsley 

1 Cup cracker crumbs 

1 Tablespoon flour 

1 Egg 



1 Can salmon 
IJ/2 Cups milk 

1 Tablespoon butter 
1 Slice onion 

3 Sticks macaroni 

Melt the butter, add flour and pour into these the milk with which the 
slice of onion has been scalded, and cook until smooth. Mince the parsley 
in this sauce. Mince the salmon fine with a fork removing any particles 
of bone or skin, then mix thoroughly with the sauce, salt and pepper to taste 
and shape in croquettes in the form of chops. This amount will make one 
dozen. Roll the chops in cracker dust, then in beaten egg and once more in 
cracker dust. Stick a fourth of a piece of macaroni into the small end of 
each chop, for the chop bone and fry in deep fat. Serve hot with mayon- 
naise dressing to which has been added diced cucumber. One cup of diced 
cucumber to two of dressing. 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

Mrs. W. E. Mitchell, 436 Wheeler St., Seattle 
Pick out the bones and mash fine one can of salmon. Grind 1 doz. soda 
crackers, butter a pudding pan or baker and put in one layer of cracker 
crumbs, followed by a layer of salmon. Dot it with butter, a tiny bit of salt 
and pepper, and repeat the layers, having cracker crumbs for the top. Place 
more butter on top and pour over all a pint of milk. Bake in an oven twenty 
or thirty minutes until nicely browned. As fish and crackers are already 
cooked this dish is quickly and simply made. Serve in same dish on table. 
With potato salad this is complete and makes a meal dainty enough for most 
occasions. Will serve from four to six persons. 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

Mrs. W. F. Meier, 7034 17th Ave. N. E., Seattle 
Mince fine a can of salmon, placing in a baking dish, (or individual cus- 
tard cups) a layer of salmon, a layre of cracker crumbs, a little salt, pepper 
and melted butter. Repeat until salmon is used. Pour over this two eggs, 
beaten with two cups of milk. Bake twenty-five minutes, setting baking 
dish in a pan of hot water. fServe plain or with bits of lemon or tomato 
sauce or white sauce or egg sauce. This will serve ten people. 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

Mrs. F. M. Stokes, 2002 10th Ave. No. Seattle 

4 Good sized potatoes, boiled and 1 Tablespoonful flour 



dried 
1 Good sized onion 
1 Stock celery, small 

1 Cup bread crumbs, browned 

butter 

2 Cups milk 



1 Tablespoonful butter 
^2 Teaspoonful Worcestershire 
sauce 
in 1 Egg 

1 Can salmon, picked over good, 
removing all bones 



Boil potatoes and slice, cut one onion into small pieces, 1 small stalk 
celery cut in small pieces, 1 cup bread crumbs browned in butter, 2 cups 
milk, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 tablespoonful butter, i/^ teaspoonful Worcester- 
shire sauce, 1 egg, 1 can salmon picked over good, removing all bones. Place 
contents in large deep pan, placing in hot oven about thirty minutes, adding 
the browned bread crumbs just before serving. This quantity will serve 
eight people bountifully. 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



EAT MORE FISH 15 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

L. V. Johnson, 1715 Harvard Ave., Seattle 
One pound can salmon, 1 cup mashed potatoes or cold boiled rice, 1 cup 
crumbs from bread dried and ^lolled with rolling pin. 

Mix together and put into greased pudding dish. Pour over this a cup 
of boiling water seasoned with 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon salt, i/^ tea- 
spoon pepper, % teaspoon mace, a small pinch of cayenne. Bake in moderate 
oven until top is light brown, possibly i/^ hour. Will serve seven or eight 
persons. 

SCALLOPED SALMON 
Miss Grace Engart, 1902 Queen Anne Ave., Seattle 
One pound can salmon, remove all bones possible. Break seven 
crackers into small pieces (do not roll them), and cover this mixture with 
three scant cups milk. Stir in one well beaten egg. Add a small piece of 
butter, also salt and pepper to taste. Stir the entire mixture into a baking 
dish and bake for ^4 hour. This dish will sei've seven people and will be 
found delicious, either hot or cold. 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

Mrs. L. Murray Graht, 113 N. 55th St., Seattle 

1 Can salmon 1 Teaspoon salt 

2 Cups milk |/^_Teaspoon pepper 

2 Tablespoons flour 1 Tablespoon chopped onion 

2 Tablespoons butter 1_Teaspoon chopped parsley 

2 Eggs 

Pick over the fish and break into small pieces. Make a cream sauce 
by blending the flour, butter and milk together. Boil for a few minutes, 
then add the eggs well beaten, add the fish, salt, pepper, onion and parsley, 
put into a buttered bake dish, cover with fine bread crumbs and dot with 
pieces of butter. Bake in a moderate oven for % hour. Service for four. 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

Ada L. Morris, 511% Maiden Ave., Seattle 
Remove bones and pick apart one can of salmon. Butter a baking dish, 
put in layer of salmon, then layer of cream sauce, then layer of salmon, then 
cream sauce with cracker crumbs on top and bits of butter over them; boil 
twenty minutes. 

Cream Sauce: — For one can salmon, heat one cup milk to which add two 
level tablespoonfuls of flour and two of butter which has been previously 
melted and creamed together, let bubble up, then add grated rind and juice 
of one lemon, pinch of salt, pepper and paprika to taste; remove from fire, 
add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

This will serve seven persons. It is delicious. 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

Mrs. Mildred C. Hall, 4742 11th Ave. N. E., Seattle 

2 Cups of boiling water 

1 Can salmon Buttered bread or cracker 

2 Tablespoons flour crumbs 
Butter size of an egg 

(The juice of one lemon may be added, though we prefer it without.) 
Mince one pound can salmon, removing bones and skin (if any). Salt 
and pepper to taste. Rub butter and flour to a cream and add the hot water, 
cooking it a few minutes. Then mix with the water, put into a baking dish, 
sprinkle with cracker crumbs and bake for 20 minutes. This is certainly 
delicious and will serve five persons generously. 

Grades and Labels:— Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C." 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



16 EAT MORE FISH 



SALMON TIMBALES 

Mrs. C. C. Dose, 3111 Dose Terrace, Seattle 

Two cups of fine bread crumibs, soak in % cup of milk and l^ cup of 
cream, flake one can of salmon discarding the bones and skin. Yolks of 
three eggs beaten lightly, % can mushrooms chopped fine. Lastly add the 
beaten whites of the three eggs, put in timbale shells, stand in pan of hot 
water and bake in moderate oven for % hour. 

SALMON RAMEQUINS 

Mrs. F. H. Furey, Box 994, Seattle 

Melt three tablespoons butter, add three tablespoons flour and pour on 
gradually one cup of milk. To this add one pound can salmon, having pre- 
viously removed the bones and skin and flaked it fine, also one can peas, i/4 
teaspoon salt and % teaspoon celery salt. Fill ramequins dishes and cover 
with buttered crumbs. Bake till light brown. This will serve six people. 

SALMON AUX EGG NOODLES 

Mrs. F. M. Seymour, Seattle 

1 Can salmon free from skin and 1 Tablespoon parsley, minced 

bones 1 Pint boiling milk 

1 Cup grated cheese 1 Ounce butter 

Yz Can mushrooms, minced 

Butter baking dish, cover the bottom with layer of egg noodles, add fish 
in flakes, pour over milk and butter, add mushrooms and parsley, season 
with salt and pepper, then add remaining egg noodles and sprinkle over 
with grated cheese and a few cracker and bread crumbs. Place in a moder- 
ate oven and bake. To be served in a baking dish. 

SALMON PUDDING 

Mrs. J. Shank, 134 23rd Ave. So., Seattle 

Mince one can salmon, save liquid for sauce; put in 4 tablespoons of 
melted butter, % cup bread crumbs, pepper and salt and finally 3 well beaten 
eggs. Put in buttered mold set in a pan of hot water, cover and steam in 
oven one hour, filling with water as it evaporates. Set in cold water a 
minute and turn out. 

Sauce: — Heat one cup milk to boiling and thicken with 1 tablespoon 
cornstarch , wet in cold water; add a spoonful of butter, salmon liquor and 
a beaten egg, take from the fire, season and stand in hot water three minutes 
covered; add juice of half a lemon, pour over the pudding. Delicious. 

SALMON PUDDING 

Mrs. Hugh Wilkie, 311 1st Ave. W., Seattle 

Take six medium sized potatoes, boil and mash them with milk and 
butter, beating them until they are very light. Take a 1-lb. can of salmon, 
pick it over and remove all skin and bones, add this to the potatoes while 
in the pan, season with pepper and salt, make very hot and serve on a dish 
molded high in the center, with egg sauce. 

Egg Sauce. — Take one pint of milk and when hot put in a small piece 
of butter, a little pepper and salt and thicken with two tablespoons of corn- 
starch. Remove from the flre and stir in two hard boiled eggs chopped fine. 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



EAT MORE FISH 17 



SALMON LOAF A LA VIENNA 

Mrs. Anna Cross, 613 2nd Ave., Seattle 
1 Can salmon free from skin and J^ Teacup cracker or bread meal 

bones 1 Small onion, minced 

4 Hard boiled eggs, peeled 1 Ounce melted butter 

5/2 Teaspoon ground mustard 1 Raw egg 

1 Tablespoon parsley, minced 

Run fish through meat grinder and place with butter, mustard, onion and 
parsley, on fire in a shallow pot, when it becomes hot, work in raw egg and 
cracker or bread meal, season with Worcestershire sauce, pepper and a good 
dash of nutmeg, work up until smooth with a paddle or large spoon; re- 
move and place on cutting board, napkin or cloth, work fish to 1 inch thick- 
ness on napkin by patting it out with the hands. Place the four eggs in a 
row at the very edge of fish, take hold of the napkin and start to roll, bi'ing- 
ing the roll towards you with both hands so as the eggs will be placed in 
the middle of fish. Shape and place in a greased pan, brush over with a 
little sweet milk, dust on a few cracker or bread crumbs and place in a 
moderate oven until brown; remove from oven and place on a large platter 
and slice off in thin slices. Serve with or without sauce. 

SALMON LOBSCONSE (For Camps) 

Mrs. A. Denny Lindsley, 1410 Allen Place, Seattle 
1 Can salmon 3 Tablespoons flour 

1 Small onion I/2 Cup canned milk 
4 Slices bacon Salt and pepper 
6 Crackers 

Fry bacon and sliced onion, remove bacon when done and stir flour into 
hot fat until slightly brown. Season, then add milk which has been diluted 
to a cupful with cold water. Stir constantly and when sauce thickens add 
flaked salmon, and when heated through, pour over the crackers which have 
been broken into bits. 

SALMON PASTRY 
Carolyn Wingate, 4051 10th Ave. N. E., Seattle 

Shred the contents of 1 lb. can of salmon, mix into this one tablespoon 
melted butter, salt and pepper, the juice of half a lemon with a little of its 
grated rind and a beaten egg. Line a deep baking dish with pastry and 
cover the bottom with half the salmon mixtui-e, then fill in with oysters and 
mushrooms, put the remaining half of mixture over the top and cover with 
a crust of pastry, bake three quarters of an hour. Will serve eight persons. 

SALMON WIGGLE 

Mrs. H. F. Kuehn, 1938 47th Ave. S. W., Seattle 

2 Cups French peas 4 Teaspoons of flour 

1 Large can salmon 8 Teaspoons melted butter 

3 Cups of sweet milk 

Season with cayenne pepper and salt to taste, serve on Saratoga Flakes. 
Make the gravy with the milk, flour, batter and seasoning in a double boiler, 
then add peas and salmon; let cool; just before serving pour mixture on 
ci'ackers. Should serve fifteen people. 

SALMON SALAD 

Mrs. E. W. Pay, 118 John St., Seattle 
Drain one can of salmon and remove skin and bones, separate into small 
pieces, add one cup of cooked peas and mix with any good salad dressing. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C." 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



18 EAT MORE FISH 



SALMON SALAD 

Mrs. W. T. Hofstatter, 960 Motor Place, Seattle 

1 Can salmon 2 Hard boiled eggs, chopped 

2 Cups finely cut cabbage 3 Sweet pickles, chopped fine 
Drain off liquor from salmon, remove bones and skin and chop fine. 

Add cabbage, eggs and pickles, mix all together with salad dressing and 
serve on crisp lettuce leaves. This will serve six. 

SALMON SALAD 

Mrs. Frank P. Dow, 627 36th Ave. No., Seattle 

1 Can salmon 2 Tablespoons of green or red 

1 Cup celery, cut fine sweet peppers, cut fine 

% Cup cold cooked peas 1 Very small onion, grated 

Y2 Dozen ripe olives, chopped 

Mix well together with mayonnaise dressing. Pile on lettuce leaves and 

put more dressing on top with thin strips of the sweet peppers. Will serve 

eight. 

SALMON SALAD 

Mrs. A. M. Beckett, 7519 Wilson Ave., Seattle 

1 Pound tin salmon 1 Small tin peas 

3 Hard boiled eggs J/s Cucumber 

2 Head good firm lettuce 

Shred the salmon lightly with a fork, cut the lettuce into five strands, 
and mix both together lightly, then add the peas freed from all moisture, 
and decorate with finely sliced cucumber and egg cut into rings. This salad 
is served with mayonnaise dressing, and is quite one of the finest fish salads 
I have ever known. It is also very decorative when served on large lettuce 
leaves. Sufficient for sixteen portions. 

SALMON SALAD 

Ruth Esther Sievers, 2318 Wetmore, Everett 

1 Can salmon 3 Egg yolks 

1 Cup celery 1 Teaspoonful dry mustard 

2 Hard boiled eggs J/^ Teaspoonful salt 
3_Tablespoons vinegar 1 Cup whipped cream 
1 Tablespoon butter 

Pick the contents of a can of salmon into shreds and pour over the juice 
which is in the can. Cut a cupful of celery very fine, and chop two hard 
boiled eggs fine, pour over all of this a mayonnaise made as follows: Boil 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 1 tablespoonful butter, pour on beaten 
yolks of three eggs, add one teaspoonful dry mustard, ^2 teaspoonful salt, 
when cool add 1 cup whipped cream. 

SALMON SALAD 

Mrs. E. D. Falnestork, 1124 27th Ave., Seattle 

One can of salmon, one bunch of celery cut fine, % pint mayonnaise 
dressing. Remove bones from salmon, flake it with a fork and add celery, 
V2 apple choped, one orange cut small and mix all thoroughly. Next, hard 
boil as many eggs as desired. Remove shells, cut slice off top and remove 
yolks, and fill with salmon salad and a spoonful of mayonnaise on top. Cut 
a slice off the bottom of each egg so as to make it stand up, and serve with 
lettuce leaves. Garnish with yolks cut in slices. 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
gi'ades. in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



EAT MORE T'ISH 19 



SALMON SALAD 

Mrs. Grace E. Cox, 5619 12th Ave. N. E., Seattle 

1 Pound salmon % Cup hot milk 

'/2 Teaspoonful salt y^ Cup hot vinegar 

1 Teaspoonful sugar 2 Tablespoonsful butter 

1 Teaspoonful flour Yolks of two eggs 

54 Teaspoonful mustard 1 Tablespoonful gelatine softened 

Pepper, if you wish in Y^ cup cold water 

Over the salt, sugar, flour and mustard, pour gradually the hot milk. 
Cook in double boiler for ten minutes, then add the hot vinegar and the 
butter already creamed and mixed with the yolks of eggs. Stir till the egg 
is set then add the softened gelatine. Strain and pour over the boned, flaked 
salmon, from which the oil has been poured. Mix thoroughly and pour into 
moulds. Serve on nest of lettuce with mayonnaise or sauce of grated cu- 
cumbers and whipped ci'eam. This will serve six persons generously. 

SALMON SALAD 

Miss Nina Talbot, 1129 21 st Ave. No., Seattle 

One can salmon, four sour cucmber pickles diced, four hard boiled eggs 
diced, six large square crackers rolled, teacup of crisp celery diced. Mix 
all lightly together with some of the mayonnaise dressing or cream dressing. 

SALMON LOAF 

Mrs. Jesse E. Davis, 5244 Brooklyn Ave., Seattle 

1 Can salmon 4 Tablespoons melted butter or 

3 Eggs, well beaten lard and butter 

1 Level teaspoon (into bread Salt, pepper, minced parsley 

crumbs) baking powder (two tablespoons) 

1 Cup fine bread crumbs Lemon juice 

Chop salmon fine and rub butter into it, beat crumbs and seasoning into 
the beaten eggs, mix both parts, place In mold and steam one hour. 

Sauce: — 1 cup milk heated to boiling point, 1 tablespoon corn starch, 1 
tablespoon butter, 1 egg, i/4 cup tomato catsup, pinch of red pepper, liquor 
from salmon. Stir egg into milk carefully the balance into the egg and 
milk, boil one minute. Garnish with lettuce, parsley and hard boiled egg. 
This will serve eight persons. 

SALMON LOAF 

Mrs. Charlie Morse, 825 E. 70th St., Seattle 

Drain 1 lb. can of salmon and save liquor. Chop the fish fine and add 
^ cup of soft butter, four well beaten eggs, % level teaspoon salt, i/^ cup of 
fine bread crumbs, % level teaspoon finely chopped parsley, Yz teaspoon 
pepper. Mix all together and put into buttered mold and steam one hour. 
Serve with this sauce. Melt two level tablespoons of butter, add an equal 
amount of flour, a few grains each of mace, and cayenne, 1 cup of hot milk 
and the salmon liquor. When it is cooked smooth add one beaten egg. This 
is a delicious luncheon dish. Garnish with parsley. 

Note: — Do not use cracker crumbs as the loaf will be dry. It should 
be soft and just firm enough to hold together. Unmold and either pour 
sauce over, or serve in portions with sauce over. This will serve four or 
five. 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 







N 



25 .vis 

»0 g 9.0 

< •-!!/<?< 

ymz> 



(t UJ 



T 6 It 



<tlj 

?>< I 

Jz 



<(n 



xo , 



. o< 50 go l-n 

' -ji,'-. ''O "Ok ■«D 
I OIU z TUl 



^5 . 

5--I0 



3o< 

IsCCLiJZi 










nS 



01 



to 

O -^ 

0) .S 



o -a 
^ o 

S " 



pq 



.2 m. 



o 
o 



(0 

CO t 
III o 

O 

-J 
00 

6 

CO 



-a o 

O 



EAT MORE FISH 



SALMON LOAF 

Mrs. E. C. Sharfie, 716 12th Ave. No., Seattle 

1 Can salmon I/2 Cup bread or cracker crumbs 

4 Beaten eggs Salt and pepper 

4 Tablespoons melted butter 

Chop and mix in chopping bowl. Make into a loaf and steam one hour. 
This to be eaten warm with sauce made of: 
1/2 Cup butter Juice of lemon 

Yolk of two eggs 1 Cup of boiling water 

Heat to thickening without boiling. Serve on platter with sauce poured 
over loaf. 

BAKED SALMON WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Miss M. Leona Sperry, Seattle, R. F. D. No. 1, Box 218 

1 Lb. salmon 1 Teaspoon vinegar 

1 Cup tomatoes 2 Teaspoons butter 

1/2 Cup water 1!/2 Teaspoons flour 

1 Slice onion Vz Teaspoon salt 

A clove or two 1 16 Teaspoon pepper 

Cook tomatoes, water, onion, cloves and sugar twenty minutes. Melt 
butter, add flour and stir into hot mixture. Add salt and pepper, cook ten 
minutes, then strain. Add salmon and put in baking pan, pour around half 
the sauce and bake thirty-five minutes, basting often. Remove to hot 
platter, pour around remaining hot sauce and garnish with parsley. This 
will serve from four to six persons. 

SALMON LOAF 

Mrs. Edna Fulton Densmore, 415 12th Ave. No., Seattle 

Chop a can of salmon into pieces small. 

Then a cup of crumbs in the dish may fall. 
Now a cup of nice sweet milk, well beaten eggs just two 

Salt and pepper add to this and mix it through and through. 
Steam this mixture just one hour, turn out upon a plate. 

And serve it with a white sauce, how to make it I will state, 
Mix a tablespoon of butter, with a tablespoon of flour, 

A cup of milk pour onto this, (a little salt) stir and boil it, not an hour. 
But just a few short minutes, then serve it good and hot. 

And if your husband thinks like mine, he'll say it hits the spot. 

SALMON LOAF WITH CUCUMBER SAUCE 
Mrs. O. I. Hall, 2027 15th Ave. So., Seattle 
A. 
1 Pound can salmon 1 Teaspoon dry mustard 

1 Teaspoon salt 1 Tablespoon flour 

1 Teaspoon sugar Dash cayenne 

B. 

2 Yolks eggs % Cup milk 

Yz Tablespoon melted butter '4 Cup vinegar 

C. 
2 Tablespoons cold water 1 Tablespoon gelatine (level) 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



EAT MORE FISH 



Remove skin from salmon and scald on a platter, then drain in collander 
or sieve. When dry separate into flakes. Put "A" and "C" together in 
double boiler. Beat "B" slowly together (on account of vinegar) then pour 
into "A" and "C" and cook until the mixture thickens. Then pour into mold 
or small molds. 

Cucumber Sauce: — % cup whipping cream, I saltspoon salt, 2 tabelspoons 
vinegar, % cup chopped and drained cucumber. The vinegar must be dropped 
into whipping cream to keep from curdling. Nothing can ever be put into 
cream before it stiffens. 

SALMON LOAF 
Mrs. F. H. Warren, 822 E. 79th St., Seattle 

One can best salmon, remove skin and bones and pick fine, 4 tablespoons 
butter, 1 cup fine bread crumbs, 1 level teaspoon baking powder, 3 eggs well 
beaten, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste. Steam two hours. 

Sauce: — 1 egg well beaten, 1 cup sweet milk, liquor from salmon, pepper 
and salt to taste, % cup tomato catsup, trim with fresh parsley, serve with 
thin home-made bread and butter sandwiches. 

SALMON LOAF 

Mrs. E. F. Taylor, 1614 12th Ave. W., Seattle 
One can salmon, take out bones and pick it fine with a fork; lYz cups 
cracker crumbs, 1 egg, salt and pepper to taste; lYz cups of milk. Put in 
baking powder cans, cover with a cloth and then cover and boil in a kettle 
one-half hour. 

BAKED SALMON 

Mrs. C. M. Holmes, 5005 Donovan St., Seattle 
Cover the bottom of a six or eight inch pan with a paper thin layer of 
first, salt pork t>ien of onions, next, if vou have them, of sweet peppers. 
Follow with a layer of tomatoes, either fresh or canned, then the salmon 
thoroughly mashed, seasoned with a little salt, pepper and Worcestershire 
Sauce and made into a uniform layer. Cover with flour and butter or 
cottolene bake twenty-flve or thirty minutes. 

BAKED SALMON AND GREEN PEPPERS 

Mrs. Geo. A. Spencer, 2513 14th Ave. So., Seattle 
1 Lb. can salmon picked up, add 2 cups bread crumbs. 1 cup cream, 2 
tablespoons butter, salt and pepper and a little chopped parsley. Remove 
centers of twelve green peppers, flll with mixture and bake % hour bi'own. 
Put a little water in pan to start them and bread crumbs and a little butter 
on top of each. Serve 12 with one pepper. 

BAKED SALMON MANHATTAN 

Mrs. B. Johnson, 162 W. 62nd St., Seattle 
1 Lb. can salmon 3 Eggs 

Juice of ^ lemon J/^ Cup cooked peas 

1'/^ Cups white sauce A few slices of bacon 

Remove the bones and skin of salmon and squeeze the lemon juice over 
it. Then make the white sauce of 1% cups of milk thickened with 3 table- 
spoons of flour and 3 tablespoons of butter, stirring constantly until creamy 
and the flour is well cooked. Put the salmon into the white sauce and cook 
a few minutes. Butter a baking dish and pour this mixture into it. Beat the 
eggs very lightly and season with salt and pepper, add the peas, beat again, 
and pour over the other mixture. Then lay the bacon over the top and bake 
in a moderate oven until bacon is nicely browned, or about % hour. This 
will serve six people and makes an excellent luncheon or dinner dish. 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
gi-ades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



EAT MORE FISH 23 



IMPERIAL CREAMED SALMON 

H. K. Wittier, 804 Summit Ave., Seattle 
Take one can of salmon and break into small pieces, place in sauce pan, 
add 14 cup of milk or cream and %cup of water. Mix three tablespoons of 
flour with one of butter, stir this in and heat to boiling point. Add V4, can 
of chopped mushrooms, ^4: cup of ripe olives cut into pieces. Stir well to 
prevent burning and cook until thickened. Now add two tablespoons of 
sherry (if desired a dash of celery salt) and serve on trimmed piece of evenly 
browned toast. Sprinkle with a pinch of finely chopped parsley, and garnish 
with lettuce leaves and sliced or quartered lemon. The quantity of mush- 
rooms and ripe olives can be changed to suit the taste, and a dash of paprika, 
or a little Worcestershire sauce may be added if desired. 

CREAMED SALMON WITH PEAS 

Mrs. A. E. Chase, 2338 Boylston No., Seattle 
To one can of salmon, boned, add V2 can peas. Make a white sauce of 
one pint of milk and cream, thickened with three tablespoons flour, one 
tablespoon butter, dash of red pepper, pinch of salt and a little minced pars- 
ley. Put in a buttered bake dish, layer of fish, a sprinkle of peas and layer of 
bread crumbs; cover with white sauce, and repeat until dish is filled; cover 
top with bread crumbs and melted butter, bake till brown. 
NOTE: This makes a nice fish course for luncheon. 

CREAMED SALMON WITH GREEN PEAS 

Mrs. J. B. Little, 1002% A St., Aberdeen 
1 Can salmon 3 Tabelspoons flour 

1 Can peas 1 pint of milk 

2 Tablespoons butter Salt and pepper to taste 

Melt butter in pan, add the flour and mix to a paste, add a little milk 
and mix smooth, then the remainder of the milk, cook to a rather thick 
cream, stirring constantly; if too thick add more milk. Drain water from 
peas and heat salmon in small pieces add with the peas to a cream and 
serve on toast. This will serve four people. 

SALMON CROQUETTES 

Mrs. Laura W. Ketcham, 8057 Wallingford, Seattle 
Fry three slices of onions in tablespoon of butter for two minutes. Then 
take out all onion and put one tablespoon of flour in the butter. Make 
thick, creamy sauce with one pint of rich milk or cream. Then put in one 
can of shredded salmon with oil poured off. Juice of one lemon, 1 tablespoon 
mincel parsley, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, dash of red pepper and 
salt to taste. When thoroughly cold make into cone shaped croquettes and 
roll in egg and cracker crumbs. Let stand for 1 hour before frying in deep 
fat. 

SALMON CROQUETTES 
Mrs. M. A. Caughlin, 1804 Bellevue Ave., Seattle 
1 Lb. can salmon 2 Eggs 

4 Tablespoons sweet milk 4 Tablespoons melted butter 

l%_Cups bread crumbs Salt and pepper to taste 

NOTE: If croquettes are brought to table on one platter pile them in 
a mound, having a napkin under them. 

Drain fish, mash fine, add the beaten eggs, melted butter, bread crumbs 
and milk in the order named, beat all until a soft paste is formed, place a 
small spoonful in the beaten egg (ready in a nan), lift from the egg and lay 
in cracker crumbs, shaping into dainty balls. Fry in deep fat until a delicate 
brown, remove from fat and drain on manilla paper. Serve hot. 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



24 EAT MORE FISH 



SALMON FISH BALLS 

Mrs. N. Steele, 815 3rd Ave., Seattle 

2 Cups salmon, minced 1 Cup mashed potatoes 

54 Cup drawn butter !/4 Teaspoon salt 

Pinch of pepper 
Work in the potatoes with the salmon and moisten with the drawn butter 
until it is soft enough to mold and will keep its shape. Roll the balls in flour 
and fry quickly to a golden brown in lard or cooking oil. Take from fat as 
soon as they are done and lay in seive to drain. Serve on a hot platter. 
Use more seasoning if desired. 

SALMON SANDWICHES 

Mrs. J. B. Seavey, Auburn, Wash. 

1 Lb. can salmon, remove bones and skin. Pick salmon apart with a fork. 
Six hard boiled eggs chopped fine. Moisten with salad dressing thinned with 
cream. This makes fifty sandwiches. 

SALMON SANDWICHES AUX TOMATOES 

Mrs. C. A. Donaldson, 815 3rd Ave., Seattle 

12 Slices of bread toasted on one side 1 Can tomatoes drained from all 
1 Can salmon, free from skin and liquor 

bones Yolks of six eggs 

1 Oz. butter 1 Clove garlic, crushed 

Place tomatoes on fire, add butter, season with pepper and salt, add 
fish. Allow to boil for twenty minutes, strain, return to pot, work in eggs. 
Allow all to nook until same comes to a paste, cool and spread six slices 
of toast with mixture, place remaining six slices on top. Trim and cut 
diagonally across. If any of the mixture is left, place it on border of each 
sandwich. 

SALMON COCKTAIL 
Mrs. Geo. A. Spencer, 2512 14th Ave. South, Seattle 

Break in bits 1 lb. can of best salmon, and remove bone and skin. 
Place in eight cocktail glasses, pour over each one tablespoonful of the 
following dressing. Serve with slice of lemon and wafer. Dressing: 
1 Tablespoon horseradish 2 Tablespoons lemon juice 

1 Tablespoon vinegar 1 Dash of tobasco 

1 Tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 14 Teaspoon salt 

2 Tablespoons tomato catsup 

Most appetizing before dinner. Serve eight persons. 

SALMON ON TOAST 

Mrs. Bertha Barton, 713 14th Ave., Seattle 
1 Can salmon 1 Lemon 

1 Quart milk Skant y^ teaspoon salt 

2 Heaping tablespoons flour A pinch of red pepper 
2 Heaping tablespoons butter 6-or 8 thin slices of toast 

Melt butter in a pan, add fiour and stir until smooth, add milk gradually 
and stir carefully until at a boiling point, then add one can of salmon, flaked, 
stir until thoroughly heated, add salt and a pinch of red pepper. Pour over 
slices of toast arranged on a platter and squeeze the juice of one lemon over 
all, then add a little chopped parsley if desired. This should serve six or 
eight persons. 

NOTE: This recipe is original. It can be prepared in a chafing dish 
at the table. 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



EAT MORE FISH 25 



Copied from 
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE 

BUREAU OF FISHERIES 

Economic Circular No. 33 : : : : Issued December 5, 1917 



THE EULACHON 

Commonly Called Smelt 

A Rich and Delicious Little Fish 

RECIPES 

FRESH OR FROZEN EULACHON 

1. Pried enlachon. — Remove scales, heads, viscera, and tails. Do not split. 
Dip each fish In well-beaten egg and roll in yellow corn meal. Salt to taste and 
fry in a well-greased frying pan, turning the fish to brown both sides. Do not 
have fire too hot. Small sweet cucumber pickles go well with the fish or sliced 
lemon may be used. Accompany with crisp baked potatoes, which should be 
eaten skins and all. 

2. Pried eulaclion. — Remove scales, gills, and viscera of one dozen fish, 
leaving heads on. Thoroughly mix 1 well-beaten egg, one-half cup of milk, and 
1 tablespoonful of fiour. Dip each fish, previously salted to taste, in the mix- 
ture, and roll in fine cracker crumbs. Fry brown in deep fat and serve with 
tartar or tomato sauce. 

3. Broiled eulachon. — Dress clean and wipe dry. Score a little across the 
back and broil slowly over a clear fire. Serve on hot platter. Season highly with 
lemon juice and white pepper. 

4. Baked eulacliou. — Remove scales, gills, and viscera of one dozen eulachon, 
leaving heads on. Do not split. Make stuffing of cracker meal, milk, a little 
salt, and chopped sweet peppers or paprika, and, if desired, a little powdered 
sage. Stuff each fish with the mixture. Place in a well-greased pan and just 
cover with a mixture of 1 well-beaten egg, one-half cup of milk, and one-half 
cup of cracker meal or fine crumbs. Bake until rich brown on top. Serve from 
pan in which the fish are cooked. 

6. Baked eulachon. — Dress and clean fish, split and lay open meat side up 
and season with salt and pepper. Place in a baking pan and bake from 15 to 20 
minutes in a medium oven, brushing fish over once or twice while cooking with 
beaten eggs applied with a small brush or swab. Garnish with parsley and 
lemon. 

7. Steamed eulaclion with drawn butter. — Prepare fish as if for frying. Line 
the bottom of a baking pan, or agate pan with a wet cloth, place fish in a row in 
pan, sprinkle with salt and white pepper, cover with another white cloth or 
napkin wet thoroughly with hot water. Cover with another pan. Place in oven 
to steam for about 25 minutes, basting frequently with hot water. When cooked, 
place on a hot platter, serve with drawn butter or tomato sauce, garnish with 
chopped parsley and sliced lemons. 

SALT EULACHON 

8. Pried salt eulachon. — If the fish have not been cleaned, remove the 
viscera as described previously. Soak for one hour, wipe dry and prepare and 
cook the fish as in the recipes for fresh eulachon. 

9. Broiled salt eulachon. — After cleaning, soak, wipe dry, and lay on a 
broiler in a gas oven or over live coals (wood or charcoal preferablj^). Broil 
until brown on both sides. Dress with pepper to taste. tServe with pieces of 
lemon. 

10. Boiled salt enlachon. — After cleaning, soak the desired number of fish 
one hour in cold water. Tie in cheesecloth bag and boil for a few minutes. Serve 
with egg sauce and boiled potatoes. 

12. Dried salt eulachon. — Remove from brine and drain. Run a slender 
slick or string through the eyes and hang in strong sunlight or moderate arti- 
ficial heat until thoroughly dry. If dried in the sun and out of doors, put them 
under cover at night and do not let them be exposed to any moisture, as the 
fish are so oily they may become rancid. It will take from two to several days 
to dry them. When well dried they may be kept for a considerable length of 
time If sealed or tied up In a paper bag away from moisture. These fish thus 
prepared may be eaten uncooked, or broiled or baked. No other treatment is 
necessary. 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



^^^^l^HT 


EAT MORE FISH 


"1^^^^^^ 


^^1 




Economic Circular No. 11 


sai;mon 


Issued Marcli 7 


, 1914 



SALADS 

1. Salmon salad. — Flake 1 can of salmon fine, 1 cup of cabbage cut fine, 1 
cup of celery cut fine, sprinkle a pinch of salt, dash of paprika; mix lightly and 
chill them. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

2. Salmon salad. — One large can of red salmon, 1 cup chopped celery, 1 cup 
chopped English walnuts, 4 or 5 sweet pickles (gherkins). Mix well with cream 
mayonnaise. 

3. Salmon cream salad. — Beat 4 egg yolks; add slowly while stirring one- 
quarter cup of olive oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and 1 tablespoonful of lemon 
juice; cook in a double boiler until it thickens; when cool add one-quarter cupful 
of olive oil, 1 tablespoonful of pulverized sugar, 2 level teaspoonfuls of salt, 
3 tablespoonfuls of finely minced pimentoes, and 1 cupful of double cream; mix 
well with 1 can of salinon (drained, and with skin and bones removed) ; garnish 
with finely chopped whites of hard-boiled eggs, and the hard-boiled yolks forced 
through a potato ricer; heap in a salad bowl and encircle with slices of hard- 
boiled eggs and sprays of watercress or parsley. 

4. Salmon salad sandwiches. — One pound can of salmon, 1 tablespoonful of 
any preferred salad dressing, 2 tablespoonfuls of finely chopped cucumber pickles 
(sour), 1 teaspoonful of grated onion or onion juice, one-half teaspoonful mixed 
salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly and spread between thin slices of bread. 

5. Salmon and pea salad. — Prepare 1 quart of aspic jelly (made with gela- 
tine after the regulation recipe), half fill a mold with it, and allow to set; arrange 
in it 1 can of minced salmon (drained and with skin and bones removed), pour 
over it a little more of the liquid jelly which has been kept in a warm place, add 
a few slices of hard-boiled eggs; let set again until it stiffens, then pour over 
all the remainder of the quart of liquid jelly. Set in a cold place; when ready to 
serve, turn out and decorate with cold boiled peas (or canned peas which have 
been washed in cold water and drained). Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

6. Salmon a la Deutsch. — Remove the skin and bone from 1 can of salmon; 
cut into half-inch cubes enough cold potatoes to make 1 cupful; chop fine one- 
half cupful of hard-boiled eggs and add to the salmon and potatoes; marinate 
with a French dressing; when ready to serve, moisten with any good boiled salad 
dressing, and garnish with chopped pimentoes, slices of hard-boiled eggs, and 
sprays of parsley. 

STEAMED DISHES 

7. Salmon en casserole. — Cook 1 cup of rice; when cold line baking dish. 
Take 1 can of salmon and flake, beat 2 eggs, one-third cup of milk, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of butter, pinch of salt, dash of paprika. Stir into the salmon lightly, cover 
lightly with rice. Steam one hour, serve with white sauce. 

8. Salmon in mold. — One can of salmon; 3 eggs beaten light; one-half cup 
of fine bread crumbs; salt, cayenne, parsley; 4 tablespoonfuls melted butter; 
remove oil, bones, and skin from the fish; mince fish fine; rub in butter until 
smooth; add crumbs to the beaten eggs; season fish; add eggs and crumbs; put 
in a buttered hold and steam one hour; serve with sauce. 

9. Salmon supreme. — Drain liquor from 1 can of salmon; remove bones and 
skin; chop fine; rub into it until smooth 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter; season 
with salt, pepper, 1 tablespoonful minced parsley, add 3 tablespoonfuls chopped 
celery; beat 4 eggs well, and one-half cup rolled cracker crumbs; mix all 
well together; pack into buttered mold; steam one hour. When done turn out on 
a heated platter; surround with peas (seasoned and drained), and serve with 
following sauce: Melt 1 tablespoonful butter; rub into it 1 tablespoonful of 
corn-starch; add slowly 1 cup hot milk, the salmon liquor, salt, pepper, and 
tomato catsup to suit taste; stir until smooth and thoroughly cooked: serve in 
separate dish. 

BAKED DISHES. 

10. Timbales of salmon. — One can of salmon; 4 hard-boiled eggs; 3 eggs; 
salt; pepper; lemon juice; white sauce; parsley; flake canned salmon into bits, 
removing all bones and skin; rub the yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs to a paste, and 
stir them into the minced fish; mince the white of the eggs as fine as possible, 
and stir them into the salmon mixture; season with salt, white pepper, and 
lemon juice, with a dash of cayenne; beat the mixture into the well-beaten yolks 
of 3 eggs; add the whites of eggs beaten stiff; pour into buttered nappies or tim- 
bale cases; set these in pan of boiling water and bake about 25 minutes; turn 
out on hot platter; pour about the timbales a white sauce, into which chopped 
parsley has been stirred. 

H. Salmon loaf. — One small can of salmon; 1 cup of cracker crumbs; 1 egg; 
2 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk; small amounts of nutmeg, paprika, salt; remove 
bones from salmon, break into small pieces, add well-beaten egg, seasoning, and 
cracker crumbs; bake in a well-buttered dish for 15 minutes; serve hot for lunch. 

12. Salmon loaf with rice. — One can of salmon; 2 cups hot boiled rice (1 
cup before being cooked); 2 eggs beaten; 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter; juice 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



EAT MORE FISH 27 



of half a small lemon; salt and pepper to taste; add liquor from salmon can and 
mix ingredients lightly with a fork; bake in a covered pan set in water one hour 
in a moderate oven; serve with tomato sauce made by straining and slightly 
thickening a cup of canned tomatoes well seasoned. Peas, either fresh or canned, 
may be used instead of the rice, in which case serve with a cream sauce. 

13. Baked salmon loaf. — One can salmon, 1 pint of mashed potatoes, 1 cup 
browned cracker crumbs, 2 cups of parsley sauce. Grease a good-sized mold with 
butter, sprinkle with cracker crumbs, and line with mashed potatoes. Drain oil 
from salmon and remove skin and bones. Season with pepper and salt and pack 
in mold. Cover with potatoes and then cracker crumbs, put a few pieces of but- 
ter on top, and bake one-half hour in fairly hot oven. Turn out and pour parsley 
sauce over. 

14. Baked canned salmon. — Take off skin from a fine canned salmon steak. 
Lay in a small granite baking pan and sprinkle with a little pepper and salt and 
minced parsley. Over the salmon place an inch-thick layer of well-seasoned and 
beaten mashed potato, shaping to conform to a slice of flsh. On top put buttered 
and seasoned fine bread crumbs. Bake half an hour in a hot oven, basting once 
in a while with a little butter and cream that the salmon may not dry out. Place 
carefully on a platter and pour around the steak a cream gravy. 

15. Salmon cakes (German). — To 1 small can of salmon add 1 pint of 
mashed potatoes, prepared as for table use; add 1 beaten egg, 1 tablespoonful of 
melted butter, salt, and pepper to taste (if too dry add a little milk); make into 
flake cakes; place in buttered pan. Brown in hot oven. 

16. Salmon patties. — Line individual patty pans with a rich paste; put alter- 
nate layers of salmon force meat and mashed potatoes into them until the pans 
are filled, having the mashed potatoes on top; bake one-half hour and serve hot. 
Prepare the force meat for the above as follows: Take 1 can of salmon, 1 cupful 
of fine bread crumbs, the beaten yolks of two eggs, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 
teaspoon of salt, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful of grated 
onion, and 1 cup of milk; cook together for 5 minutes, stirring carefully. 

17. Baked salmon in pepper cases. — One can of salmon, 8 green peppers, 
crackers, butter, etc. Remove skin and bones from one can of salmon, season 
with salt and pepper and onion juice. Mix with an equal quantity of cracker 
crumbs moistened with butter, or left-over stuffing can be used instead. The 
mixture should be quite moist; if not, add a little milk. Cut lengthwise 8 sweet 
green peppers, remove seeds, parboil 5 minutes and fill with fish. Put in baking 
pan, surround pan with hot water, and cook until cases are soft but not broken. 

18. Baked creamed salmon with spagrlietti. — One can of salmon, one-half 
pound of spaghetti broken fine, butter size of egg, 1 pint of milk, 2 eggs. Boil 
spaghetti in salted water until tender, drain in a colander, and pour cold water 
through it; grease baking dish and put layer of spaghetti, layer of salmon, bits 
of butter and pepper; continue until all is used. Beat eggs, add milk, and pour 
over and bake 45 minutes. Serve with or without white sauce. 

19. — Deviled salmon. — One can of salmon, 2 eggs, flour, milk, butter, spices, 
potatoes. Mince 1 can of salmon after removing skin and bones, add the yolks 
of 2 hard-boiled eggs finely mashed, a little minced parsley, season with salt 
and pepper and 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice. Make a thick sauce- of 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, and two-thirds cup of milk. Pour 
sauce over salmon, and mix. Butter baking dish, fill with mixture, and cover 
with meringue of mashed potatoes; dot with bits of butter and brown in oven. 

20. Potted salmon a la Hebrew. — Scald and drain 3 cans of salmon; remove 
the skin and bones; rub together in a bowl one-half saltspoonful of paprika, 
one-half teaspoonful of mace, and 1 level teaspoonful of salt; mix half of this 
spice mixture with the salmon and place it in an earthen baking dish. Wash 
free from salt one-half pound of butter; put half of it over the salmon, and 1 
clove of garlic sliced thinly; cover and bake one-half hour. Remove the salmon 
onto a platter; now put the remainder of the washed butter into the baking dish 
and set aside until the salmon is cold; then add the remainder of the spice mix- 
ture to the salmon, and another clove of garlic, peeled and mashed; rub the 
salmon until smooth, then pour the contents of the baking dish over it and mix 
well. Pack into small jars, and it will be ready for use in 24 hours. Covered 
with melted paraffin or suet, it will keep in a cool place for weeks. 

21. Salmon turnovers. — Make a light dough as for shortcake. Take 1 can 
of salmon and remove liquid and bones, 1 can of green peas. Roll out a disk of 
dough about 6 inches across. Fill with 1 tablespoonful of salmon, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of peas, a little salt and pepper, bits of butter. Moisten the edges with cold 
water, turn over, and press together with a fork. Bake in moderate oven until 
delicate brown. 

22. Salmon souffle. — Separate 1 can of salmon into flakes; season with salt, 
paprika, and lemon juice. Cook one-half cup of soft stale bread crumbs in one- 
half cup of milk 10 minutes and add to salmon; then add the yolks of 3 eggs 
beaten until thick and lemon-colored, and cut and fold in the whites beaten stiff 
and dry. Turn into a buttered baking dish and bake until firm. 

23. Salmon souffle. — Drain and remove the skin and bones from 1 can of 
salmon; dissolve 2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch in three-fourths cup of cold 
milk; add 1 tablespoonful of butter to the milk; season with salt and pepper, and 
stir over fire until thick and smooth; add the yolks of 2 eggs and 1 teaspoonful 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



28 EAT MORE FISH 



each of lemon and onion juice; now add 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one- 
half cupful of bread crumbs, and the beaten whites of 2 eggs; stir well together, 
add the salmon, mix thoroughly and put into a buttered baking dish; set the 
baking dish in pan of boiling water and place in hot oven to brown. Garnish 
with parsley. 

24. Scalloped salmon. — One pound can of salmon, one-half cup of fine dry 
bread crumbs; 1 tablespoonful butter; 1 heaping tablespoonful flour; 1 pint good 
r'ch milk; salt, peppei', and paprika. Melt butter in a sauce pan and add flour 
and stir until melted and mixed but not browned. Remove from tlie fire and 
slowly add milk until smooth. Then return to fire to thicken like cream. Adil 
a little salt, pepper, and paprika to suit taste. Remove salmon from the can, 
remove any bits of bone and skin, and separate the flakes of salmon with a 
fork. Now butter a pudding dish, add a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of 
salmon, and cover with the dressing. Lastly cover top with crumbs and bits of 
butter and place in the oven about 20 minutes to heat through thoroughly and 
brown on top. The size of the baking dish will regulate the number of layers of 
salmon, etc. 

25. Scalloped salmon. — One can of salmon; remove all bone and bits of skin; 
mince fine. Roll 1 dozen crackers fine. Put in a buttered baking dish in alternate 
layers, adding bits of butter and a sprinkling of salt and pepper to taste. Have 
the top layer of crackers, and add sufficient milk to moisten the whole mass 
(about 1 pint). Bake 30 minutes and serve hot. 

26. Scalloped salmon. — One can of salinon, 1 pint of milk, 1 egg, 1 heaping 
tablespoonful of butter, 2 rounding tablespoonfuls flour. Put the milk on stove 
in double boiler, keeping out one-half cup. Mix butter and flour to a smooth 
paste, and add the egg well beaten, then the one-half cup of cold milk. Mix well 
and then stir into the milk, which should be scalding. Stir until smooth and 
thick like gravy. Season with salt and pepper and set aside to cool. Butter a 
baking dish and fill with alternate layers of flaked salmon and the cream dress- 
ing. The top layer should be of the dressing. Sprinkle with cracker crumbs 
and bake one-half hour in moderate oven. 

27. Scalloped salmon. — One can of salmon, 4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour, li,4 pints of milk, 1 teaspoonful salt. Mix cream, butter, 
and flour together, add the milk, and cook until thick. Butter the baking dish, 
cover the bottom witli fine cracker crumbs (or fiaked hominy), add a layer of 
salmon picked apart and bones removed. Then add a layer of cracker crumbs 
(or hominy), alternating with salmon. Pour the hot dressing over it. Place 
in the oven and bake 20 minutes. 

BOILED DISHES 

28. Salmon and tongue en casserole. — One can salmon, 1 veal tongue, butter, 
sherry wine or vinegar. Cook veal tongue in salted water until tender. Cut 
tongue into small pieces, place in casserole with 1 can of salmon freed from 
skin and bones, dot well with butter, add one-fourth cup boiling water. Pour 
over whole a wineglassful of sherry wine or 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar. 
Boil slowly about three-quarters of an hour and do not open until ready to serve. 

29. Salmon in potato border. — While potatoes are boiling prepare the salmon 
as follows: To 1 can add 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a 
little paprika, 2 cups of milk, and 1 cup of fine bread crumbs. Boil together in 
a sauce pan and rub until smooth; keep in a warm place while you mash the 
potatoes and arrange them in a border on a platter. Heap the hot salmon in the 
center; dot the potato border with butter. An extra touch may be added by 
pouring a cup of white sauce over the salmon and garnishing with slices of 
hard-boiled eggs. 

30. Salmon a la Creole. — Cook in 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of butter 1 finely 
chopped green pepper, 1 minced onion, and 1 chopped tomato (or one-half cup 
of canned tomatoes); add 1 cup of milk; stir until the pepper and onion are 
soft; add 1 can of salmon, drained and minced; simmer; serve hot. 

FOR CHAFING DISH 

31. Barbecue of salmon. — Marinate 1 can of salmon in 1 tablespoonful of 
pure olive oil, 1 tablespoonful of minced onion, 1 teaspoonful of cider vinegar, 
1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Into the 
upper part of the chafing dish put one-fourth teacupful of tomato catsup, 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, a few capers, and one-fourth cup of hot water; stir until hot 
and add the marinated salmon; stir well; add one-half can of peas (drained and 
washed) ; cover and let stand over the hot water pan until quite hot. Serve hot 
from the chafing disli, accompanied by sandwiches of thinly sliced brown bread. 

32. Salmon a la N'ewberg'. — Dissolve 1 dessert spoonful of cornstarch in 
1 pint of cold milk; add 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 beaten egg, and cook until 
thick; season with salt and paprika to taste; add 1 can of drained salmon, 1 tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and 3 tablespoonfuls of double cream. Serve on toasted 
bread or crackers. 

33. Salmon Hollandaise. — Melt 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in the upper pan, 
add 1 can salmon (drained), 1 can of peas (drained and washed in cold water), 
1 level teaspoonful of salt, and a little paprika; add the juice of 1 lemon and 
stir until hot; serve on toasted crackers. 

Grades and Labels: — Canned salmon is usually rated, as to quality and 
grades, in the order shown on copy of label, page 20, and in paragraph "C," 
page 11. Standard Canned Salmon is selected fish and every can guaranteed. 



EAT MORE FISH 29 



34. Creamed salmon in chafing- dish. — Three large tablespoonfuls of butter; 
melt; stir in a large tablespoonful of flour and one-half teaspoonful of dry mus- 
tard; 1 cup of milk; stir until a thick gravy; then stir into this 1 cup of flaked 
salmon; season well with salt, pepper, and paprika; one-fourth teaspoonful of 
Tobasco sauce, and, the last thing, pour into this one-half cup of catsup; serve 
on hot toast or on toasted crackers. 

35. Salmon in chafing' dish. — Put into the blazer 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
a finely minced onion, a sweet green pepper minced and seeded; and a cup of 
tomatoes; let it cook 2 or 3 minutes; then add one-lialf cup of boiling water and 
one-half pint of canned salmon; salt to taste; serve as soon as fish is heated. 

CREAMED SALMON 

36. Creamed salmon. — One can of salmon; 1 quart sweet milk; 3 ounces 
butter; 3 eggs: 2 ounces flour; 1 ounce chopped onion; salt, pepper; melt together 
butter and flour, and when creamy add 1 quart hot milk; add onion, salt and 
pepper; break in 3 raw eggs, and draw to back of stove till eggs set and will 
remain in chunks when stirred; add salmon after removing skin and bones; put 
back on fire and let boil up once. 

37. Creamed salmon. — Make a good white sauce by rubbing a tablespoonful 
of flour into a tablespoonful of melted butter; when smooth add 1 cup of cold 
milk, and stir while it is cooking; add 1 can of salmon separated into small 
pieces; if the sauce seems too thick, add a little of the liquor from tlie fish; 
serve this on soft buttered toast or square soda crackers; this may be varied 
by adding one-half teaspoonful of curry powder to the sauce, rubbing it in with 
the flour and butter; serve for breakfast, dinner, or supper. It can be prepared 
In 10 minutes. 

38. Creamed salmon. — One can of salmon; 1 cup milk; 2 level tablespoonfuls 
flour; 2 level tablespoonfuls butter; 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley; melt butter; 
add flour, rubbing together over blaze until flour begins to cook; add milk, stir- 
ring constantly; boil till smooth; add parsley and salmon; keep on stove till 
salmon heats through; serve on squares of buttered toast or in pastry cups. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

39. Curried salmon. — Melt 2 tablespoonsfuls of butter in a sauce pan, add 
one-third cup of flour, and 1 teaspoonful of curry powder; rub smooth in 1 pint 
of milk; stir until it boils; season with salt; add 1 can of salmon, and heat 
thoroughly while stirring; place in center of a platter, and border with hot boiled 
rice seasoned with salt and dotted with butter. 

40. Salmon fritters. — One and one-third cupfuls of pastry flour, 2 level tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 1 egg, two-thirds cup 
of milk. Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually, then egg well beaten. 
Season three-fourths of a cup of minced salmon with salt, cayenne pepper, and 
lemon juice, if desired. Add to the batter and drop by spoonfuls into deep fat 
and brown. Drain on brown paper and serve hot with Tartar sauce. 

41. Salmon stuffed hot rolls. — Bake ordinary full crust rolls. Use one roll 
for each person; cut off the tops of the rolls, scoop out the crumbs, brush inside 
and outside with melted butter, and put into hot oven until they are a delicate 
brown. Make a creamed salmon with chopped parsley and the whites of hard- 
boiled eggs in it. Heat the cases, fill with the creamed salmon, cover, and serve. 

42. Salmon croquettes. — One pint of chopped salmon, two-thirds cup of 
cream, 1 large tablespoonful of butter, small tablespoonful of flour, 2 eggs, two- 
thirds pint of bread crumbs; salt and pepper to taste. Mix the flour and butter, 
let cream come to boiling point, stir in butter and salmon and seasoning. Boil 
two minutes, let get cold. Form into croquettes and fry in liot lard. 

43. Salmon with white sauce. — One large-sized can of salmon. Heat the 
salmon and put on platter in one piece if possible. Make white sauce and pour 
over the salmon. Have 3 eggs hard boiled and slice over top. Garnish with 
parsley. 

44. Salmon patties — One can of salmon. Pour off oil and remove all skin 
and bones and break into flakes. Melt 1 tablespoonful of butter in a sauce pan, 
mix smoothly with it 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; then add slowly 2 cups of milk 
and season with 1 teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, a dash of 
mace, and 1 teaspoonful parsley minced very fine. Add flaked salmon, cook four 
minutes, stirring constantly. Put in patty shells and serve. 

45. Salmon omelette. — One-half can of salmon, 4 eggs, nutmeg, salt and 
pepper, 4 tablespoonfuls of boiling water. Beat eggs light (the whites sepa- 
rately), add salmon minced and drained, seasoning, and lastly add hot water. 
Put in well-buttered omelette pan, cook till firm. Serve with toast for breakfast. 

46. Salmon hash. — One can salmon flaked coarse; 1 cup rolled cracker 
crumbs; 1 cup milk. Have a skillet hot; place 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted, put in the cracker crumbs, stir; then the flaked salmon; stir these to- 
gether, season well with pepper, salt, a dash of cayenne, and then mix one-fourth 
teaspoonful of dry mustard with the oil that was on the salmon and stir in the 
mixture, then 1 cup of milk. When the whole is tlioroughly heated through 
and thick it is ready to serve. This makes an excellent dish to iJrepare on short 
notice. 

47. Salmon eg-gs — Three hard-boiled eggs, one-half cup shredded salmon, 2 
tablespoonfuls mustard pickles, 4 chopped green olives, salt and pepper to taste, 
3 tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise (thin with lemon juice or vinegar). Cut eggs 
in half, remove yolks. Mix together yolks, salmon, pickles, olives, mayonnaise, 
salt, and pepper. Put this mixture into the halved whites of eggs. Serve on 
lettuce leaves, with a teaspoonful of thick mayonnaise on each egg. 

48. Dressing- for loaf. — One cup sweet milk (added to the juice of salmon). 



30 EAT MORE FISH 



1 tablespoonful butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour; cook till thick. Add 1 egg beaten 
light and pour over loaf. 

49. Sauce for salmon. — Thicken 1 cup of boiling milk with 1 teaspoonful of 
cornstarch (or flour) and 1 tablespoonful of butter rubbed together. Add liquor 
from the salmon, season with salt, cayenne, and 1 tablespoonful of tomato catsup. 
Just before taking from the fire add 1 beaten egg. 

50. Salmon soup. — One can of salmon; bring 1 quart of milk to boil in double 
boiler, season with pinch of salt, pepper, and Spanish saffron, also a dash of 
nutmeg, if liked; then thicken with 3 tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed into 3 ounces 
of butter. Add contents of a can of salmon carefully freed from bones and skin 
and rubbed to a paste. Blend all carefully, and just before taking up add one- 
half teaspoonful onion juice and sprinkle with shredded parsley. 

SPECIAL NOTICE TO HOUSEWIVES 

In buying fresh fish, see that eyes are bright and prominent and the 
flesh firm, not flabby. 

FISH AS FOOD 

In "these days when the (^ost of living has become such an important 
factor, it is necessary for the average housewife to give careful thought to 
providing for her table. The articles procured must not only be reasonably 
cheap, but they must be palatable and nourishing. 

As fish meets these requirements, attention is called to it as one of the 
articles that should daily have an important place on each bill of fare. 

Not only from an economic, but from a health standpoint is it desirable 
that fish should be more freely used by working people of all classes, — those 
who work with their hands, — fish is an economical source of energy neces- 
sary to enable them to carry on their work, and for children and young per- 
sons it furnishes the very materials that are needed to enable them to grow 
healthy and strong. 

Another very important reason why fish should be generally used is its 
easy digestibility. Even feeble stomachs, that cannot readily deal with meat, 
find little difficulty in assimilating fish. The rapidity with which any kind 
of meat dissolves in the stomach depends largely on the fineness of its fibres. 
Thus beef is less- digestible than mutton, because the fibres are longer and 
harder, and again mutton is less digestible than the breast of fowl. In fish 
the muscle fibres are very short and are arranged in flaky masses, which are 
easily separated from one another. Hence fish lends itself to comparatively 
speedy digestion. Of course, fish differ greatly in digestibility, the leankinds 
being more readily disposed of than the fat, and salt fish, owing to the hard- 
ening of the fibre during the salting, lingers longer in the stomach than fresh 
fish. Moreover, fish is less stimulating as a food than meat, which is a mat- 
ter of importance in these days of heavy nervous tension. 

In this connection, however, an important feature must not be over- 
looked, viz., that, as in other foods, the digestibility and nutritive value of 
fish largely depends on the cooking of it. 

CLASSES OF FISH 

Pish may be divided into two classes, viz., oily and non-oily. Of the two, 
oily fish are the more nutritious. They comprise such kinds as salmon, trout, 
mackerel, herring, and eels, and have the oil mingled through the flesh. Haddock, 
cod, hake, polock, and halibut, etc., are non-oily fish; that is, the oil is contained 
in the liver and is removed when the fish is dressed for cooking. They are thus 
more suitable for invalids, and people of weak digestion, than the oily kinds. 

In preparing fish for cooking it should not be allowed to stand in water for 
a long time. It spoils the flavor, and the food substances are likely to be 
dissolved. 

HINTS ON FRYING FISH 

There are three ways of preparing fish for frying, viz.: firstly, dipping it 
in milk and flour; secondly, coating it with prepared batter; and thirdly, egging 
and crumbling. The last is considered the nicest, but is also the most expensive. 

The pan used for frying sliould contain sufficient fat to thoroughly cover the 
fish. Drippings, lard, or oil can be used for frying purposes. 

The fat must be quite hot — in fact, be smoking — before the fish is put in, so 
as to harden the outside, thus preventing the fat from entering into the fish, 
which would spoil the flavor and make it indigestible. 

Only a small quantity of fish should be fried at a time, and the fat should 
be allowed to get thoroughly hot before the next lot is put in. 



EAT MORE FISH 31 



As soon as the fish is brown on both sides, drain it on paper or a clotli, so 
as to absorb all the fat. It should then be dished up on a folded paper and 
placed on a hot dish. 

W^hen the frying is ended, allow the fat to cool a little, strain it to remove 
any loose crumbs or bits of batter, and the fat will then be quite fit for future 
use. 

HINTS ON BOILING FISH 

Clean and wash in plenty of cold water the fish intended for boiling. Add 
a little salt to the water; this will help to clean it, and keep the fish firm. 

Cod, haddock, conger eel, mackerel, hake, etc., are best suited for boiling. 

The fins should be cut off and the eyes taken out, if a small fish such as 
haddock or mackerel. 

Put the fish into warm water; add sufficient salt and vinegar to taste, 
vinegar helps to keep the fish firm and white. 

Allow about ten minutes for each pound of fish, and fifteen minutes over, if 
large. A moderate-sized fish usually takes from fifteen to twenty minutes to 
cook. Fish must not be allowed to boil fast; the slower it boils the better. When 
cooked, it should have a creamy appearance, and come easily from the bones. 
■W^len done, lift it out carefully, let it drain, and place it on a hot dish. Serve 
with melted butter, parsley, caper, eggs, or anchovy sauce. Boiled fish ,when 
once cooked, should be served promptly. 

The water in which fish is boiled should not be thrown away, for it can be 
used as stock for soups and fish sauces and stews. 

FURTHER HINTS 

In buying fish see that the eyes are bright and prominent and the flesh 
firm, — not flabby. 

Plain boiled or mashed potatoes should always be served with fish. Squash 
and green peas also go well with it. 

As the remains of boiled fish can be warmed up with a little butter, pepper, 
salt and water, making an excellent stew, they should always be saved. 

Canned fish should never be allowed to remain long in the can after opening. 
It should be used at once. 

While cold-storage facilities enable fresh fish, in prime condition, to be 
available during all months of the yea,r, it should not be forgotten that most 
varieties are caught more plentifully at certain seasons of the year, and should 
then be available most cheaply. 

Atlantic salmon are caught mainly in June, July and August. Pacific salmon 
of different varieties are caught nearly all the year round. 

Cod are mainly caught from April to November; but are most plentiful from 
June to September, both months inclusive. 

Haddock are caught most plentifully from April to January; but most 
plentifully from June to August and from November to January. 

Herring are caught on the Atlantic coast from April to November. They 
are in best condition from July to October. On the Pacific coast they are most 
plentiful from November to February. 

Mackerel are caught from May to November. They are most plentiful in 
May, June and in September and October. 

Halibut are caught all the year round. They are most plentiful from May 
to November. 

Smelts are caught from October to February. They are most plentiful in 
December, January and February. 

Oysters are taken in October and November; but as oyster culture is now 
being undertaken on a large scale they will soon be available during several 
months in the year. 

Little-Neck or Hard-Shell Clams are taken in May, June and September. 
Long-Neck or Soft-Shell Clams are taken all months in the year. 

Sea Mussels are available during the whole open-water season. 

TIME-TABLE FOR BOILING FISH 

Lobster 25 to 30 minutes 

Cod and haddock (3 to 5 pounds) 20 to 30 minutes 

Bass or bluefish (4 to 5 pounds) 40 to 45 minutes 

Halibut (2 to 3 pounds) 30 to 45 minutes 

Salmon (2 to 3 pounds) 30 to 35 minutes 

Garnish haddock or halibut with slices of hard-boiled eggs and parsley, 

and serve with drawn butter, egg sauce or Hollandaise sauce. 

Garnish salmon with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve with any 

preferred sauce. 

Baking — Clean fish and bake on a greased fish sheet in a dripping pan. 

In the absence of a fish sheet, strips of white cloth may be placed under fish 

by which to lift it from the pan. 

TIME-TABLE FOR BAKING FISH 

Bake thick cuts, weight 3 to 4 pounds 45 to 60 minutes 

Bake small fish 20 to 30 minutes 



32 EAT MORE FISH 



SAUCES FOR BAKED OR BOILED FISH 

TOMATO SAUCE 

2 Cups tomatoes 3 Tablespoons butter 
1 Cup water 3 Tablespoons flour 

1 Slice onion |/2 Tablespoon sugar 
Cloves Salt and pepper 

Cook tomatoes, water, onion, three cloves and sugar together twenty 
minutes. Melt butter, add flour and stir into the mixture. Add three-quart- 
ers teasnoon salt and a dash of penuer; cook ten minutes and strain, 

DRAWN BUTTER 

Ys Cup butter 1-8 Teaspoon pepper 

3 Tablespoons flour IJ/2 Cups hot water 1/8 Teaspoon pepper 
Melt half the butter; add flour mixed with seasoning and then hot water 

gradually. Boil five minutes and add remaining butter in small pieces. 

EGG SAUCE 

Add two hard-boiled eggs cut in slices to drawn butter, or add beaten 
yolks of two egats and a little lemon juice to drawn butter. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

^2 Cup butter 14 Teaspoon salt 

2 Egg yolks Few grains cayenne 
1 Tablespoon lemon juice '/3 Cup boiling water 

Wash butter with cold water and divide in three parts. Put first piece 
in saucepan with egg volks and lemon juice; place this pan in a larger 
saucepan containing boiling water and stir with a wire whisk uneil butter 
is melted: add sei^ond piece of butter and. as it thickens, the third. Add 
water, cook one minute and add salt and cayenne. 

STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH 

1 Cup bread and cracker crumbs Y4 Teaspoon salt 

4 Cup melted butter 1/8 Teaspoon pepper 

y^. Cup hot water Onion juice 

Mix ingredients, using only a few drops of onion juice. 

OYSTER STUFFING 

1 Cup cracker crumbs 1 Cup oysters 

'/i Cup melted butter 1/8 Teaspoon pepper 

J/^ Teaspoon salt 1/2 Tablespoon chopped parsley 

1{/^ Teaspoons lemon juice 

Mix seasoning and butter with crumbs. Remove tough parts of oysters; 
add soft parts to the mixture, moistening with two tablespoons oyster liquor, 
(or oil) 

FRYING 

Clean fish and dry it: sprinkle with salt, dip in meal, flour or crumbs, 
then in egg and again in flour or crumbs and frv in deep fat. Fish may be 
seasoned, rolled in meal and sauted in a frying pan, using butter or pork fat 
or cooking oil. See page 30. 

Fry scallops, oysters and clams as fish, or dip them in batter and fry in 
deep fat. Use high flame. 

BATTER FOR OYSTERS OR CLAMS 

2 Eggs 1 Cup bread flour 
1 Teaspoon salt % Cup milk 

1/8 Teaspoon pepper 

Beat eggs, add milk, flour, salt and pepper. 



EAT MORE FISH 33 



MISCELLANEOUS 

Tvying. — Procure slices about three-quarters of an inch thick, wipe and 
season with salt and pepper; fry In the ordinary way; place the cooked fish on 
a hot dish; garnish with parsley and slices of lemon and serve quickly. 

Fanned Fish. — This is suitable for any small fish or such as can be cut in 
slices. Have the fish well cleaned, seasoned with pepper and salt and dried with 
a little flour or, better still, very fine bread-crumbs. Have a large frying-pan 
smoking hot with as little grease in it as will keep the fish from sticking. Drip- 
pings from good, sweet salt pork is the best, but any sweet dripping will do. 
When the fat begins to smoke blue lay in the fish and brown quickly on both 
sides, then cover closely and set back to cook more slowly, from ten to twenty 
minutes, according to size of the fish. Bass in all its varieties is suitable to 
cook in this way, so are butter-fish, cisco, perch, herring, trout, bream, etc. 

Steamed Fish. — Clean carefully, but without removing head or fins. Rub 
inside and out with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, laying slices of onion inside, 
if liked. Lay on a buttered paper and steam till the flesh parts easily from the 
bones. Lay on a folded napkin, dress with lemon and parsley and send to the 
table with Poulette sauce. 

Baked Fish fresh water). — The best fresh-water fish to bake are Whitefish, 
Bass, Pickerel, Pike, etc., all having white flesh. They should be basted often 
and a stuffing also serves to keep the fish moist, as well as to season it. Clean, 
wash and wipe dry the fish. If fish is slimy, like Muskalonge, scald with hot 
water before attempting to clean. Rub with salt inside and out, stuff and sew 
with soft cotton, leaving knot at one end, so cotton can easily be removed when 
fish is cooked. Put fish on a sheet and rub all over with soft butter, salt and 
pepper, cut gashes about two inches apart and place narrow strips of salt pork 
in them. Dredge with flour, if desired, and put in hot oven, without water, basting 
with hot water and butter as soon as it begins to brown, and repeat every ten 
minutes. Remove it carefully from the fish sheet and place it on a hot platter, 
remove string, wipe off all water or fat which runs from the fish and remove the 
pork. Pour drawn butter sauce around (not over) the fish. Flavor sauce with 
lemon, piling potato chips lightly around fish. Garnish the head with parsley 
or water-cress. 

Boiled Fish. — Clean, wash and dry the fish. Split so that the backbone will 
be in the middle when the fish is lying flat, or remove the backbone. Sprinkle 
with salt and lay, inside down, upon a buttered gridiron over a clear fire until 
it is nicely colored, then turn. AVhen done put upon a hot dish, buttered plenti- 
fully, and pepper. Serve hot. 

Creamed Fish for Breakfast. — Soak the required amount of fish overnight. 
In the morning turn off the water, tear the fish into small pieces, cover with 
fresh water, bring to a boil, drain, and cook one minute in a rich cream sauce. 
The addition of a beaten egg makes it very delicious. iServe on buttered toast. 

Creamed Fish and Cheese. — Prepare the fish as in the preceding recipe, turn 
into a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle grated cheese thickly over the top and bake 
a delicate brown. 

Fish Salad. — Shred some boiled salmon, halibut, or other fish, mix with it 
half as much boiled potato cut in small cubes; serve on lettuce leaves with salad 
cream. Shredded lettuce or peas may be used in place of potatoes. Garnish with 
sliced lemon and boiled beets cut in fancy shapes. 

Stuffing^ for Baked Fish, No. 1.- — For a fish weighing four to six pounds take 
one cup of cracker crumbs, one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of pepper, 
one teaspoonful of chopped onions, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one tea- 
spoonful of capers, one teaspoonful of chopped pickles. 

Stuffing' for Baked Fish, No. 2. — Take about half a pound of stale bread and 
soak in water, and when soft press out the water; add a very little chopped suet, 
pepper, salt, a large tablespoonful of onion minced and fried, and, if prepared, a 
little minced parsley; cook a trifle, and after removing from the fire add a 
beaten egg. 

Stufiing' for Baked Trout.^ — To enough breadcrumbs add a little onion and 
anchovy sauce. Crumble a small piece of cooked salmon into the dressing. Add 
butter, pepper, salt and savory. Mix thoroughly. 

Fish Balls, No. 1. — Take the fish left from the dinner, put it in your chopping 
tray, being careful that there are no bones in it: chop fine. Pare and boil pota- 
toes enough to have twice the quantity of potatoes that you have of fish. When 
cooked turn them into the tray with the fish, mash fine, and make into balls about 
the size of an egg. Flour the outside lightly; have the fat boiling hot, and fry 
a light brown. The fat should be half lard and half salt pork. Have the slices 
of pork a nice brown, and serve with the fish balls. 

Fish Balls, No, 2. — One cup salt fish, freshened and stripped; two cups pota- 
toes cut in cubes: one teaspoonful butter; pepper, one egg, well beaten. Boil 
the fish and potatoes together about fifteen minutes, or until the potato is done; 
drain off the water and mash together until fish and potatoes are perfectly 
blended. Add the butter and pepper, and beat with a fork until light. Let it 
cool a little and then add the egg. Shape lightly in a spoon, slip into a frying 
basket and fry one minute in smoking hot lard. Do not fry more than five at 
a time, as more cools the fat. Drain on a paper, garnish with parsley, and serve 
hot. These may be served with a tomato sauce. (See under "Fish Sauces.") 



34 EAT MORE FISH 



FISH BALLS 

1 Cup salt fish picked fine or cut 1/8 Teaspoon pepper 

with scissors Salt, if needed 

1 Pint potatoes 1 Teaspoon butter 

1 Egg 

Wash fish and free it fromi bones. Pare potatoes and cut them in 
quarters. Put fish and potatoes in saucepan, cover with boiling water and 
boil twenty-five minutes, or till potatoes are soft. Drain off water and mash 
and beat fish and potatoes until they are light. Add butter and pepper, and, 
when slightly cooled, the egg well beaten. Shape and fry in a basket in 
smoking hot lard one minute. Drain on brown paper. Use high flame. 

Fish Cakes. — Wash salt codflsh and separate in pieces; there should be one 
cupful. Wash, pare and soak potatoes and cut in pieces of uniform size; there 
should be two cupfuls (heaping-). Put fish and potatoes in kettle with a gener- 
ous supply of boiling- water, and cook until potatoes are soft. Drain, return to 
kettle, inash, add one egg, well beaten, one teaspoonful butter, one-eighth tea- 
spoonful pepper, and a few drops of onion juice. Shape in flat cakes, roll in 
flour and saute in pork fat. 

Fish Toast. — One cup flaked cold fish, free from skin and bones. Heat in 
water sufficient to moisten; add butter, pepper and salt. When hot pour on 
slices of buttered toast; garnish with eggs poached in muffin rings. 

Fish Chcwder No. 1. — Take a fresh fish of three or four pounds, clean it 
well and cut in pieces of three inches square. Place in bottom of your dinner 
pot five or six slices of salt pork, fry brown, then add three onions, sliced thin, 
and fry these brown. 

Remove the kettle from the fire, and place on the onions and pork a layer of 
fish. Sprinkle over a little pepper and salt, then a layer of pared and sliced 
potatoes, a layer of fish and potatoes, till the fish is all used up. Cover with 
water, and let it boil for half-hour. 

Pound six biscuits or crackers fine as meal and pour into the pot, and 
lastly add one pint milk. Let it scald well and serve. 

Fish Chowder, No. 2. — Skin a four-pound fish, wash thoroughly, and cut 
the fisli from the bones in pieces about two inches square. Cover the head and 
bones with cold water and boil one-half hour. Slice two small white onions in a 
pan -with four slices of thin, fat. salt pork. When tender, skim out the pork 
and onions and add the strained bone liquor and one quart of sliced raw pota- 
toes. Cook ten minutes, then add the fish, one tablespoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful of white pepper, when the potatoes are tender, add one quart of hot 
milk which has been tliickened with two ounces of butter and flour mixed 
together. Do not break the fish by needless stirring. Split six crackers, arrange 
in a tureen, and- pour the fish chowder over them. 

SALT FISH 

All salted fish must be rinsed thoroughly to rei-nove tlie outside salt before 
being put to soak. Always tear it in pieces, never cut with a knife. 

RECIPES FOR COOKING FISH 
And information Regarding Different Kinds of Fish 

COD, HAKE AND POLLOCK 

Boiled Cod. — Put the fish into a large pan with enough tepid water to cover. 
Add salt and enough vinegar to flavor the water, boil gently till the fin or tail 
bone will come out if lightly pulled. When fish is boiled too fast the skin will 
break. A medium-sized piece of fish usually takes from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes to cook. When done lift the fish carefully out of the water, drain it. and 
dish up. Serve with melted butter, anchovy or parsley sauce. 

Broiled Cod Procure two or three slices of cod, about three-quarters of an 

Inch thick, wipe the fish, and season with salt and pepper; broil the slices over 
^r in front of a good fire, for about fifteen minutes, witli a little butter spread 
,0n each slice. Use a gridiron, or else coolc the fish on a hot dish; garnish with 
parsley and slices of lemon, and serve quiclvly. 

Baked Cod Steak with Bacon. — Procure a slice of cod weighing from one- 
half to three-quarters of a pound. Wipe it, and place on a buttered baking tin. 
Prepare a mixture of break crumbs, savory herbs, and parsley, and bind it with 
a little beaten egg. Place this upon the fish, and season. On top put one or two 
thin slices of bacon, and bake for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 
Dish up, pour around some anchovy sauce, and serve. 

Cod Steak with Macaroni. — Two slices of cod, one ounce bread crumbs, one 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley and mixed herbs, a little egg, two ounces boiled 
macaroni, one ounce butter, one-half ounce flour, one-half pint fish stock or 
milk, one-half tablespoonful anchovy essence, and a little grated cheese. 

Wipe the fish, and place on a buttered baking tin. Prepare a stuffing of the 
bread crumbs, savory herbs, and parsley, and bind it with a little beaten egg. 
Place this upon the fish. On the top put the cooked macaroni, besprinkle with 



EAT MORE FISH 35 



grated cheese, and bake for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Prepare 
the anchovy sauce. Disli up the fish when cooked, pour over the sauce, and 
serve. 

Carried Cod. — Two slices large cod, or remains of any codfish, three ounces 
butter, one onion sliced, a teacup of white stock, thickening of butter and flour, 
one tablespoonful of curry powder, one-quarter pint of cream, salt and cayenne 
to taste. Flake the fish and fry to a nice brown, color with the butter and 
onions; put this in a stew pan, add the stock and thickening, simmer for ten 
minutes. Stir the curry powder into the cream; put it with the seasoning into 
the other ingredients; give one boil and serve. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 
Sufficient for four persons. 

Shredded Cod baked with Cream Sauce.^ — Boil four or five pounds of fresh 
cod. When cooked, drain and shred in fine pieces and set away to cool. Make 
the following sauce for a five-pound piece of fish: Boil one quart of milk with 
one onion and a little finely chopped parsley. Set it aside. Mix one cup of 
butter with enough flour to absorb it. Add this to the milk and boil until it is 
the consistency of custard. Season with a dash of cayenne and salt to taste. 
Put a layer of shredded fish in a baking dish, cover with a layer of sauce, then a 
layer of fish and so on until the dish is filled. Have the last layer of cream. 
Cover with fine bread crumbs. Sprinkle with pieces of butter and bake in the 
oven until the top is a nice brown. Small boiled potato balls covered with cream 
sauce should be served with this. 

Codfish Balls, No. 1. — Boil one cup codfish with four good-sized potatoes; 
when done mash potatoes and fish togrether, a good-sized piece of butter, a little 
pepper and one egg beaten; roll in a little flour to form balls and place in frying- 
pan; fry brown on one side in butter, turn and brown the other side. 

Hake Steak with Fried Onions. — Proceed as directed for cod steak, using a 
thick slice of hake in place of cod. Skin and slice thinly one large onion, or two 
small ones; fry this, in one ounce of butter or dripping, to a golden brown. 
When the fish is cooked, dish it up, and surround with the fried onions, then 
serve. 

HALIBUT 

This fish may be cooked in the same way as directed for cod, haddock, etc. 

Broiled Halibut — Season the slices with salt and pepper and fry them in 
melted butter for half an hour, having them well covered on both sides, roll in 
flour and broil for ten minutes over a clear fire. Serve on a hot dish, garnishing' 
with parsley and slices of lemon. The slices of halibut should be about an inch 
thick, and for every pound there should be three tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Baked Halibnt. — Arrange six thin slices of fat salt pork (about two and one- 
half inches square) in a baking pan. Wipe a two-pound (or as much as you 
happen to have) piece of halibut with a damp cloth and place it in the pan. 
Mask the fish with three tablespoonfuls of butter creamed and mixed with three 
tablespoonfuls of flour; then cover the top with three-quarters of a cupful of 
buttered cracker crumbs and arrange five thin strips of fat salt pork over the 
crumbs. Cover with buttered paper and bake fifty minutes in a moderate oven, 
removing the paper during the last fifteen minutes to brown the crumbs and 
pork. Garnish with thin slices of lemon (cut in fancy shapes if desired) then 
sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. Serve with the following sauce: Melt three 
tablespoonfuls of butter, add three tablespoonfuls of fiour; stir until well 
blended, then pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, one and one-half 
cups of hot water. Bring to the boiling point; add three tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter and season with one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-eighth teaspoonful of 
butter. 

Halibnt Catlets. — Cut yooir halibut steaks an inch thick, wipe them with a 
dry cloth, and season with salt and cayenne pepper. Have ready a pan of yolk 
of eggs well beaten and a dish of grated bread-crumbs. Put some fresh lard of 
beef drippings in a frying-pan and hold it over the fire till it boils. Dip your 
cutlets in the egg, and then in the bread-crumbs. Fry a light brown; serve up 
hot. Salmon or any large fish may be fried in the same manner. 

Fried Fillet of Halibut.— Remove the skin and bones from a slice of halibut 
weighing one and one-quarter pounds. Cut each of the four pieces thus made, 
in halves lengthwise, making eight fillets. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and lemon 
juice. Roll and fasten with small wooden skewers. Dip in crumbs, egg, and 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Halibut Barebit. — Melt one teaspoonful butter, add a few drops of onion 
juice and one tablespoonful corn-starch mixed with one-half teaspoonful salt 
and one-quarter teaspoonful paprika, then pour on gradually one cup milk, add 
three-quarters cup of soft cheese, cut fine, and one cup of cold, flaked, cooked 
halibut. When cheese is melted add one egg slightly beaten and one tablespoon- 
ful lemon juice. Serve on crackers. 

Scalloped Halibut. — Shred one cupful of cold boiled halibut; pour in the food 
pan one and one-half cups milk and let come to a boil; add butter size of an egg, 
salt and pepper, then the crumbs of four crackers, add lastly the halibut; let it 
cook five minutes, then add two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, and serve on a hot 
platter with bits of buttered toast. 



36 EAT MORE FISH 



HADDOCK 

Baked Stuffed Haddock. — Wash, scale, and wipe a large fresh haddock, and 
remove the eyes. Prepare a stuffing- with one ounce chopped suet, two ounces 
of bread-crumbs, one teaspoonful herbs and parsley, and season with salt and 
pepper. Mix the stuffing with half an egg. Stuff the body of the fish with this, 
and sew up the opening. Pass a trussing needle, threaded with string, through 
the tail of the fish, centre of body and the eyes, draw the fish up into the shape 
of the letter S, brush over with beaten egg, and sprinkle over some bread-crumbs 
and a few pieces of drippings. Bake in a brisk oven for about half an hour or 
longer, basting frequently. Dish up and serve with brown sauce or melted butter 
or a little gravy. 

Baked Haddock. — Clean a four-pound haddock. Sprinkle with salt inside and 
stuff and sew. Cut gashes on each side of backbone and insert narrow strips of 
salt port. Place on a greased fish sheet or something to raise it from the bot- 
tom. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and place around fish 
small pieces of salt pork. Bake one liour in a hot oven, basting often. Serve 
with drawn butter sauce or egg sauce. 

Smoked or Finnan Haddock. — The following methods for cooking smoked 
haddock are especially recommended: 

1. Put a smoked haddock into a flat saucepan or frying-pan with a pint of 
milk, or half milk and half water: sprinkle over a grate of nutmeg, and cover the 
fish with a plate. Cook in front of a fire or in the oven for about 20 minutes; 
then take up the haddock, place it on a hot dish and serve. 

2. Cook one or two haddocks in a Yorkshire pudding tin, with a little water, 
in the oven for about thirty to thirty-five minutes, according to the size of the 
fish. When done, take up, drain, and place on a hot dish. Put a few small pieces 
of fresh butter over the top and serve. 

3. Cook the fish as directed in one of the foregoing ways; remove the bones 
carefully, and place it on a hot dish. Spread over with fresh butter, and put a 
few nicely poache dand trimmed eggs on top, and serve. 

FLOUNDER 

This is a fish that is not so generally used as it should be. When properly 
cooked it provides a light and easy digestible food. 

This fish may be fried in the usual way or baked as follows: 

Baked Flounder. — Fillet of flounder, cut the bones into small pieces, and put 
in a sauce pan with sufficient water to well cover them. Add a little salt, half 
an onion, one clove, and cook for fifteen or twenty minutes. (This will make 
fish stock.) 

Place the fillets neatly on a well-greased dish or tin, sprinkle over some 
finely chopped parsley, and a pinch of powdered sweet herbs (if handy), season 
with salt and pepper, add a dash of vinegar and just enough fish stock to half 
cover the fish. Sprinkle over with bread-crumbs to well cover the fish, place a 
tiny piece of lard or butter here and there, and bake in a hot oven for about a 
quarter of S.n hour. If a dish is used, send it to table in the same dish; other- 
wise, lift the fish carefully out on to a hot disli. 

The remainder of the stock can be used for sauce or other purposes. 

SKATE OR RAYS 

These fish are extremely plentiful around our shores, but for some reason 
they are scarcely used as food in any form. It is a favorite with those who 
know its fine flavor. 

Skate may be cooked as follows: 

Boiled Skate. — Take one and one-half pound of fish, one bay leaf, one or two 
slices of onion, one dessert-spoonful vinegar, one dessert-spoonful salt, and one 
and one-half ounces butter. 

Procure the fish skinned; cut into strips, and twist into rings. Skinning flsh 
is rather a tedious operation; it is therefore advisable to get it skinned and 
dressed from the fish dealer. Put the fish into a stew pan or fish-kettle, with 
enough salted water to well cover it; add a bay leaf, the onion slices, and the 
vinegar. Bring it to the boil, remove the scum, and cook till tender. Take up 
the flsh, drain well, and put it on a hot disli. Melt the butter in a frying pan, 
allow it to get brown, then pour it quickly over the fish; sprinkle over a little 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

Also fry in ordinary way. 

HERRING 

It is to be regretted that only a very small proportion of the great annual 
catch of this wholesome fish is used as food in this country. 

Baked Herrinff.- — Six fresh herring, one-third teacupful vinegar, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, one bay leaf, one-half teaspoonful pepper, one-half teacupful 
water. 

Fresh herring should not be washed, unless in exceptional circumstances. 
They should be emptied, the heads taken off. the scales scraped off, and then the 
herring well wiped. With a sharp knife split the herring up the back and lay it 
open; cut it in half; lift the bone out, beginning at the head; now roll each half 
up into a nice firm roll, beginning at the head. From six herring you will have 



EAT MORE FISH 



twelve of these rolls. -Stand them in a small pudding dish with the back upper- 
most — they will quite fill the dish. Now pour in half a teacupful of water and 
one-third of a teacupful of vinegar, mixed, a bay leaf slipped in at the side, and 
tlie pepper and salt. 

Cover the dish with a plate, and cook at the side of the Are or in the oven, 
for half an hour. The herring may be served in the dish in which tliey are 
cooked. Tliey are good either hot or cold. 

Fried Fresh Herring-. — Prepare as above, namely, empty the herring, take 
off the heads, scrape the scales oft and wipe them quite clean; then split them 
open from the baclv and lay them flat. Dust over them a little pepper and salt. 

Have a clean frying-pan. quite hot; place the herring in it, the skin next 
the pan, and fry them for five minutes; then fry the other side about the same 
time. Fry the skin side first. Good herring need no dripping, as they contain 
sufficient oil in themselves to fry in. 

Kippered Herriugr. — 'Place the herring between a greased gridiron, and cook 
before or over a bright fire for about ten minutes. Dish up, spread a little butter 
over the top, and serve. Another way is to fry the fisli over the fire in a frying- 
pan with a little butter or dripping, but the former method is preferred by most. 

Canned Herring- in Tomato Sauce. — This will be found a particularly appe- 
itsing and piquant dish, and quite ready for the table. 

MACKEREL 

Salt Mackerel. — Keep mackerel and other pickled fish under the salt and 
pickle by putting a weight on them. They must be soaked in plenty of water for 
ten or twelve hours before cooking, having the flesh side bf the fish down and, 
if possible, raised from the bottom of the vessel so that the water can circulate 
freely and draw out the salt. It is well to leave the vessel beneath the faucet 
and allow the water to drip continuously, thus providing a constant supply of 
fresh water. One trial will show you just how long to soak them. By some it 
is considered better to leave a little salt in them. 

Mackerel a la Creme. — Soak the salted fish forty-eight hours. Place in a 
shallow pan, barely cover with milk; place on the top of the stove and let it boil 
about fifteen minutes. Carefully remove the fish to the platter, skin side down; 
sprinkle with pepper and pour the milk over it; garnish with parsley and slices 
of lemon. Prepared thus, the fish contains the least amount of salt. 

Boiled Mackerel. — Freshen the fish and place in cold water. Boil gently 
thirty minutes and serve with drawn butter, made as follows: One quarter cup 
butter; two tablespoonfuls flour; one pint boiling water; little salt and pepper. 
Mix in the order given. Melt half the butter, add flour and stir until smooth. 
Pour on the boiling water gradually, stirring all the time until the sauce is 
thick and smooth. Then add the seasoning and rest of the butter, and stir until 
well blended. 

Fresh Mackerel. — Take four to six fresh mackerel, twelve pepper-corns, one 
blade mace, one gill vinegar, one-half gill water, one-quarter teaspoonful salt. 
Wash and clean the mackerel, cut off the heads and fins, remove the backbones 
carefully. Roll up the fish, place them in a pie-dish. Mix all the ingredients 
together, and pour over the fish. Cover the dish closely with paper, and bake 
in a cool oven about thirty minutes. Serve cold, and garnish with parsley. 

Fresh Mackerel Boiled. — If not cleaned, open them at the gills, take out the 
insides, wash clean, and pin in a fish-cloth. (Do not use the cloth that you use 
to boil mackerel for any other fish.) Drop into boiling water, and boil fifteen 
minutes. Serve with drawn butter. 

Broiled Mackerel. — Split down the back and clean. Be careful to scrape all 
the thin black skin from the inside. Wipe dry and lay on the gridiron; broil on 
one side a nice brown, then turn and brown the other side; it will not take so 
long to brown the side on which the skin is. (All fish should have the side on 
which the skin is turned to the first last, as the skin burns easily and coals 
are not so hot after you have used them ten minutes.) Season with butter, pep- 
per and salt. 

Fried Mackerel. — Fry brown six good-sized slices of pork. Prepare your 
mackerel as for broiling. Take out your pork, sprinkle a little salt over the 
mackerel, then fry a nice brown. Serve the fried pork with it. 

Baked Mackerel. — Split fish, clean and remove head and tail. Put in buttered 
dripping pan and sprinkle witli salt and pepper and dot over with butter (allow- 
ing one tablespoonful to a medium sized fish), and pour over two-thirds cup milk. 
Bake twenty-four minutes in hot oven. 

Maclverel will not keep fresh as long as other fish; it is therefore necessary 
that it should be consumed whilst perfectly fresh. 

SMELTS 

Smelts. — The only way to cook smelts is to fry them, although they are 
sometimes baked. Open them at the gills. Draw each smelt separately between 
your finger and thumb, beginning at the tail; this will press the insides out. 
(Some persons never take out the insides. but it should be done as much as in 
any other fish.) Wash them clean, and let them drain in a colander; then salt 
and roll in a mixture half flour and half Indian meal. Have about two inches 
deep of boiling fat in the frying-pan (drippings if you have them; if not, lard); 
into this drop the smelts, and fry brown. Do not put so many in that they will 
be crowded; if you do they will not be crisp and brown. 



38 EAT MORE FISH 



Iiake Trout may be baked broiled or fried. The meat is very white and 
particularly sweet. 

Pickerel may be baked broiled or fried. 

Fercli are best when fried. 

Pike is a white-fleshed wholesome flsh and is best when baked or boiled. 

Cat-fish should be skinned and fried. 

Tullibee is very similar to Whitefish and should be cooked in the same 
manner. 

Goldeyes are a little larger, but otherwise similar, to herring and are very 
tasty when fried. 

To cook, they should be placed in a shallow pan which has been covered with 
brown paper. Heat thoroughly in the oven with a moderate fire until the flsh 
spread open. AVhen cooked the heads and skin are easily removed. Serve whole 
on a hot platter and garnish with lettuce or parsley. 

SHELL FISH 

To Prepare Oysters for Cooking'. — Pour half a cup of cold water over one 
quart of oysters; take out each oyster separately with fingers and free from any 
bits of shell. The oyster liquor may be strained and used in soup, stew, or 
escallop if desired. Fried and broiled oysters are much better and cook easier 
if parboiled slightly before crumbling. Place one pint of cleaned oysters in a 
frying basket an keep it for one-half minute in a kettle of boiling water deep 
enough to cover them. Drain, dry on a soft towel and proceed as usual. 

Pried Oysters, No. 1. — Select large oysters, clean, and parboil slightly to 
draw out some of the water. Drain and dry on a towel. Roll in fine bread and 
cracker crumbs, dip in mayonnaise dressing, then in crumbs again. Let them 
stand five minutes, and if they seem moist, dip again in crumbs, and cook in 
deep hot fat for one minute. Being already cooked, they only need to be thor- 
oughly heated and the crumbs browned. 

Fried Oysters No. 2. — Select the largest oysters drain and dry between 
towels; dip in beaten egg, then in dry sifted bread-crumbs which have been sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, and fry in a wire basket in deep fat. 

These may be prepared some hours before cooking and the breading process 
repeated after the flrst coat is dry. 

Oysters Fried in Batter. — One cup of milk, two eggs well beaten, pepper, salt, 
and flour to make a moderately stiff batter. 

Add one cup of oysters with their liquor, season with grated nutmeg, and 
drop by spoonfuls into deep fat and fry. One-half a teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der sifted into the flour will make a light and puffy batter. If preferred the 
oysters may be dipped in the batter one at a time, but small oysters are better 
when mixed with the batter. 

OYSTER STEW 

1!/2 Pints oysters J4 Cup butter 

1 Quart scalded milk Salt and pepper 

Pick over oysters and cook in strained oyster liquor till they are plump 
and the edges commence to curl, adding a spoonful of water if necessary. 
Add hot milk, butter, salt and pepper and serve at once. Use medium flame. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

1 Pint oysters Salt and pepper 

4 Tablespoons oyster liquor Vz Cup melted butter 

2 Tablespoons milk or cream 1 Cup cracker crumbs 
|/2 Cup bread crumbs 

Brown the crumbs slightly and mix them with melted butter. Sprinkle 
a thin layer of crumibs on bottom of shallow buttered baking dish; cover 
with oysters, sprinkle with salt and pepper; add half of oyster liquor and 
half of milk; repeat and cover top with remainder of crumbs. Bake thirty 
minutes over a medium flame. 

Baked Oysters. — Put a round of toasted bread into a small baking cup or 
dish; spread with butter and fill with oyster; season with salt, pepper, and but- 
ter. Fill as many cups as required, place them in a baking pan in oven, cover 
with a pan and bake about ten minutes. 

Pig's in Blankets. — Have at hand oysters, salt, pepper, sliced fat bacon. Clean 
and season some nice large oysters, with salt and pepper. Wrap each oyster in 
a slice of thin bacon, pinning it with a toothpick. Cook them until the bacon 
is crisp. 

Creamed Oysters. — Prepare cream sauce, taking one-half the quantity of 
butter; scald the oysters until the edges begin to curl, drain and drop them into 
the cream sauce; let all stand in bain marie for five minutes to season thor- 
oughly. Serve in Swedish timbales or in pate shells. It is very nice used as a 
filling for short cake, croustade, or on toast. 

Oyster Salad. — First bring to a boil one pint of oysters, drain from liquor, 
and when cold mix with two stalks of celery cut in fine pieces; place on a bed 
of lettuce leaves or water-cress and serve with mayonnaise dressing and crisped 
crackers. 



EAT MORE FISH 39 



Scalloped Oysters. — Clean one pint of medium-sized oysters. Moisten one 
teacup of cracker crumbs with one-third of a cup of melted butter. Spread one- 
quarter of the crumbs in a baking- dish, over them put one-half of the oysters, 
season with salt, white pepper, and lemon-juice. Then spread another quarter of 
a cup of the crumbs, then the remaining oysters. Season again with salt, pepper, 
and lemon-juice, and cover with the remaining crumbs. Bake in quick oven until 
the liquor bubbles and tlie crumbs are brown. 

Oyster Fatties, No. 1. — One quart oysters, minced fine with a sharp knife: 
one cup rich drawn butter based upon milk; cayenne and black pepper to taste. 
Stir minced oysters in drawn butter and cook five minutes. Have ready some 
shapes of pastry, baked in pattie-pans, then slipped out. Fill these with the 
mixture; set in over two minutes to heat, and send to table. 

Oyster Fatties, No. 2. — Work one ounce of butter and one tablespoonful of 
flour into a smooth paste. When warm, add a little ground mace, salt, and 
cayenne. Gradually stir in three tablespoonfuls of cream. Boil for three or four 
minutes, then pour in the strained liquor of two dozen small oysters. Lastly, 
add the oysters. Stir for a few minutes and fill patties prepared as follows: 
Line some patty pans with thin pufl: paste, fill with rice so they will keep their 
sliape, cover the top with another piece of pastry. Bake in brisk oven. When 
baked, take off the top, empty out the rice, fill with the oysters, which have 
been kept warm, replace cover, and serve. 

CLAMS 

When the liquor is not used in the recipe it may be served as broth, or in 
a soup. 

Cliowder. — Three slices salt pork, cut in small pieces; four potatoes, sliced; 
three onions, sliced; one can clams; pepper and salt. Fry out the pork and re- 
move the scraps. Put in the kettle a layer of potatoes, etc., until all are in. 
Add pepper and salt and cook ten minutes in just enough water to cover. Add 
the clam liquor and clams and one cup milk and cook five minutes longer, or 
until the potatoes are done. If the clams are very large, cut them in pieces. 
Lastly, add three or four common crackers, and serve. 

Fried Clams. — Remove clams from can, dip each one in cornmeal, beaten egg-, 
and meal again, and fry in smoking-hot deep fat until brown. Bread-crumbs 
may be substituted for cornmeal if you prefer it. 

Clam Fritters. — Make a fritter batter as for griddle cake, stir into it the 
clams cut in small pieces and drop by the spoonful into smoking-hot deep lard. 
Fry brown, drain on paper and serve with slices of lemon. The clam liquor may 
be used instead of milk in making the batter and they may be fried in a spider, 
like griddle cakes. 

Clam. Nectar is now sold on the market in various sized cans and is very 
fine for soups or chowder. 

STEAMED CLAMS 

Clams must be in the shell and must be alive. Wash thoroughly; put 
in large kettle, allowing one-half cup hot water to four quarts clams; cover 
closely and cook until shells partially open. Serve with individual diphes 
of melted butter. Add a small quantity of hot water to dishes and butter 
will float and keep hot longer. Use high flame. 

Clam Stew. — To a can of clams add three cups of milk and three cups of 
water, scalded together. Add three crackers rolled, a tablespoonful of butter, 
pepper and salt, and bring the whole to a boil. Serve immediately. 

Clam. Escallops. — Wash and chop clams quite fine, butter a baking dish first, 
put in a layer of cracker crumbs, one tablespoonful of the liquor, add bits of 
butter, salt and pepper and a layer of clams. Proceed until dish is full, having 
crumbs on top. moisten with half a cup of milk. Bake about twenty minutes. 
Salmon baked this way instead of clams is nice. 

An Inexpensive Supper Dish. — Take one pint clams, remove the back, chop 
clams into small pieces. Butter baking dish, put clams, peppered and salted, into 
bottom of dish. Cream four large potatoes and lay in on top of clams . Mash 
three large carrots and season with pepper, salt and butter. Put carrots on top 
of potatoes and press down well. Sprinkle cracker crumbs and grated cheese on 
top. Lastly, pour on one-half cup of milk and bake until a golden brown. This 
dish can be gotten up for twenty-five cents and will serve five people. 

SEA-MUSSEL 

Sea-Mussel Stew. — One-half peck of mussels steamed and cleaned as usual. 
Remove the meats from the shells and place in a soup tureen with their own 
liquor. Add a pint of boiling milk, four ounces of butter, salt and pepper to 
taste, and serve piping hot with oyster crackers. 

Mussel Cliowder, New Eng-land Style. — Clean and cook the mussels as usual. 
Remove the meat; take out the beard, preserving the broth or liquor in another 
dish. To a half peck of mussels take three ounces of salt pork, cut in small dice, 
and fry in a kettle; add two onions, sliced, and cook well, but do not let brown; 
add a teaspoonful of flour; stir well. Then add the liquor with the same amount 
of water. Let it come to a boil, and add three potatoes sliced thin. Boil slowly 
until they are done, then add the mussels and a pint of boiling milk. Season 
well, and serve with pilot or soft crackers. 



40 EAT MORE FISH 



WHEN NOT TO USE SEA-MUSSELS 

Sea-mussels are wholesome, but, as in the case of all animal foods, there are 
conditions under which they should not be gathered or eaten. Dead or stale 
mussels are apt to contain the same dangerous decomposition products, pto- 
maines, as are found in other stale or putrefying animal foods. They should be 
alive when purchased, and this can be determined by observing if the shells 
are closed. If the shells gape, the mussels are either dead or weak and possibly 
dying, and should not be used. 

SPECIAL BAKED HALIBUT 

Wash and dry a piece of halibut about 2% or 3 inches thick. Place two 
slices of onion in the bottom of a long narrow pan, then a slice of salt pork. 
Place the halibut on this, then another slice of salt pork and two more slices 
of onion on this. Cover this with the hot white sauce and bake in a moderate 
oven 20 minutes. Five minutes before the halibut is done cover with but- 
tered bread crumbs and let brown. Salt, pepper or season to suit. — Miss M. 
Covington, Seattle. 

SPECIAL NOTICE TO HOUSEWIVES 

In buying fresh fish, see that eyes are bright and prominent and the flesh 
firm, not flabby. 
MEMO: — G-eneral Rule for Cooking Fish on pag-es 30-31 will apply to any of 

the following": 

NAMES OF SOME EDIBLE FISH 

The following edible fish are used in different sections of the country, 
while with parcel post delivery they could be used in all parts: 

Albacore, Blue Fish, Baraconda, Bonita, Bass, Cod, Black Cod (Sable 
Fish), Clams, Craokers, Crabs, Chum, Crawfish, Catfish, Cusk, Eulachon- 
Smelt, Gold Eyes, Gray Fish (Dog Fish), Haddock, Herring, Halibut, Hake, 
Humpback Jew Fish, Ling Cod, Lobsters, Mackerel, Mussel, Mullet, Oyster, 
Pike (Perch), Pickerel, Pollock, Rankador, Red Snapper, Sturgeon, Sucker, 
Sole, Skate, Shrimp, Sand Dab, Salmon, Spring, Silverside, Sun Fish, Steel- 
head Smelt, Tom Cod, Trout, White Fish, Yellowtail, Yellowfin. 

MEMO 

The U. S. Fisheries Bureau publish many bulletins and circulars giving 
information about the food fishes, their habits, etc. 

Should the reader wish to have more information, special advice or 
recipes, for use of any particular fish, whether named above or not, the 
same will be furnished upon request by the 

U. S. BUREAU OF FI'SHERIES Division F, Washington, D. C 

SPECIAL INFORMATION 

Upon request, accompanied by stamp, we will furnish data as to capital 
invested, people employed, cost of gear, plants, etc. 

Upon receipt of $3.00 we will procure and mail prepaid complete list of 
salmon packers, names of labels, etc. The regular Fisherman's Directory. 

Upon receipt of $1.00 we will mail typewritten list of general supplies, 
machinery, etc., used in the cannery business. 

HOME CANNING OUTFITS.— We can furnish complete home canning 
outfits using tin cans or glass jars, for canning every kind of food, cost 
about $20.00 and up, 14 quart to any capacity desired. Write for particulars. 

Address: "EAT MORE FISH," 
Box 283, Seattle, U. S. A. 



EAT MORE FISH 41 



1 teaspoon 




1 tablespoon 


Yz gill, or 


^4 


cup 


1 cup 






1 pint 






1 quart 






1 pound 






Vi pound 






1 pound 






1 pound 






1 pound 






2 ozs., or 


V4 


cup 


1 ounce 






1 ounce 






1 pound 






1 pound 






1 pound 






1 pound, 


2 


ounces 


1 pound, 


4 


ounces 



USEFUL INFORMATION 

FOR THE HOUSEWIFE. 

4 saltspoons equals 

3 teaspoons " 

4 tablespoons " 

16 tablespoons " 

2 cups " 

2 pints (4 cups) " 

2 cups butter, packed solidly " 

Yz cup butter, packed solidly " 

2 cups granulated sugar " 

2Y2 cups piilverized sugar " 

2 cups milk or water " 

4 tablespoons granulated sugar " 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar " 

4 tablespoons flour " 

75 pieces apricot " 

3 large bananas " 

2I3 cups wliite beans " 

No. 2 canned string beans (drained) " 

No. 2 lima beans (drained) " 

WHEAT AND FIiOUR — 

414 bu. wheat " 1 barrel flour 

1 barrel flour " 260 to 270 loaves 

1 bushel wheat " 65, 10 cent loaves 

Plour $14 bbl., bread cost 5 to 6c per loaf 

12 oz. loaf bread, graham " 14 14 inch slices 

16 oz. loaf bread, rye " 21 Yz inch slices 

18 oz. loaf bread, white " 16 Y2. inch slices 

20 oz. loaf bread, whole wheat " 15 14 inch slices 

1 lb. butter " 48 chips 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 
Measuring, Mixing and Combining 

All drj^ ingredients should be sifted before measuring. 

Flour and sugar should be placed lightly in a cup, a spoonful at a time, 
and leveled off with a knife; they should never be packed solidly. 

Butter and lard, or other shortening, should be packed solidly and lev- 
eled off with a knife. 

There are three methods of combining ingredients: Stirring, beating 
and folding. By stirring, the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. By beating, 
a large amount of air i.s incorporated, and by cutting and folding, this air 
which has been previously introduced is not allowed to escape. 

In cakes, sugar and butter should be creamed, unless the quantity of 
sugar is more than double that of butter, in which case half of the sugar 
should be creamed with the butter and the balance mixed in the yolks of 
eggs, after they have been beaten. 

The yolks of eggs should be beaten until thick and lemon colored for a 
fine cake; also when used in thickening. A "well beaten yolk has double the 
thickening power of one only half beaten. 

The whites of the eggs should be beaten until very stiff, and should be 
folded in at the last. No stirring or beating should be done after the whites 
have been folded in, or the work already accomplished of incorporating air, 
will be undone. 

All tablespoonfuls, also teaspoonfuls are measured level, for half spoon- 
fuls cut lengthwise. 

Sugar, flour, meal, in fact all finely ground materials should be sifted 
before measuring. 

If you measure all dry ingredients first, then liquids and last the fats but 
one cup, spoon and knife will be needed. 

Add one tablespoon of cold water to the egg used for crumbing: this will 
break up the strings of albumen. 

When mixing liquid with a solid ingredient, add only a little of the liquid 
at a time and stir constantly. 

To make nice bread crumbs, use all kinds of bread leftovers, etc., put the 
pieces in a warm oven and dry them, then fold in a cloth and roll them; this 



42 EAT MORE FISH 



will make uniform sized crumbs. Put in a glass jar and keep for preparing 
fish, meats, croquets, etc. 

A nice way to apply bread crumbs put crumbs or meal into paper bag 
drop meat or fisli into it, gently shake or turn over and you have it done to 
a turn. 

MEATS — Uses and Abuses. Meat of all kinds contain a goodly portion 
of protein, however not in so large a proportion as some other foods, yet all 
classes seem to want meat. 

Every housewife should know the different cuts of meat and she should 
carefully estimate their relative value. Some people buy only the cheapest 
cuts on account of the low price, which is all right if fuel is being used for 
something else, but frequently steak or chops would be a saving in time and 
fuel. Spanish stew, chili con carne, boiled dinner, etc., use the cheaper cuts. 

As soon as meat comes from the market, take it out of the wrapping 
paper, wipe it carefully with a cloth wrung out of cold water, put the meat in 
a granite dish or earthenware crock, cover and set in a cool place; it will 
need no further washing when prepared for cooking. 

Salt and cold water draw out the juices of meats, while hot water coagu- 
lates the albumen and keeps in the juices. 

Have the market man give you all the bones, suet and trimmings, use 
them for stock, together with all the bits and leftovers from your table. 

Clarify all beef suet, fats and drippings and keep in jar for frying and 
sauteing. Hot fat never boils, the water which the fat takes from the food 
causes the bubbles. Drain all food fried in fat on some absorbent material, 
soft cloth or paper. 

Cheese is one of the best foods to secure protein diet, and should be 
always at hand. Keep cut cheese in paper cooking bag. It will neither get 
too dry nor mould. 

A stock kettle is the supremest of economies. In it goes all scraps of 
meat, bones of all kinds. Occasionally a piece of cheap meat is added. 

Bones for the stock kettle should be cracked, as much nutriment is thus 
secured. This is easily accomplished by using a meat cleaver, a necessary 
utility in every kitchen. 

Much trouble is saved by preparing roasts on the wrapping paper in 
which they come. 

To prepare a roast, have it well skewered by the butcher. In a standing 
roast bones are left in. In a rolled roast they are removed. In either case, 
dredge the meat well with seasoned flour. The flour takes up the juices, 
seals the pores and gives a brown crust. 

High flavor is obtained by pressing a small part of a clove of garlic in 
one or two small cuts in the roast made by a sharp knife. 

Roast beef needs fifteen minutes to the pound in a hot oven. 

Mutton twenty minutes to the pound will be quite sufficient, while veal 
or pork should have not less than twenty-five minutes to each pound. 

HOME CANNING^ — There is no reason why the ordinary family cannot 
do home canning. There are several very complete outfits, such as cookers, 
boilers, steamers, etc., for use with glass jars. We know of several real 
"Home Can Sealer" for tin cans that makes it possible for the housewife to 
do canning of all kinds in practically the same manner as the canneries do. 

With the sanitai-y tin cans and the outfit referred to above, it is possible 
to can meats, fish, chicken, fruit, vegetables, etc. 

QUANTITY OF FRUIT REQUIRED FOR PINTS AND QUARTS 

1 bushel apples will make 30 pints or 20 quarts. 

1 bushel peaches will make 25 pints or 18 quarts. 

1 bushel pears or plums will make 45 pints or 30 quarts. 

1 bushel blackberries will make 50 pints or 30 quarts. 

1 bushel tomatoes will make 22 pints or 15 quarts. 

1 bushel shelled lima beans will make 50 pints or 30 quarts. 

1 bushel string beans will make 30 pints or 20 quarts. 

1 bushel shelled peas will make 16 pints or 10 quarts. 

1 bushel sweet corn (cob) will make 45 pints or 25 quarts. 

1 bushel sweet potatoes will make 30 pints or 20 quarts. 



EAT MORE FISH 43 



GOOD THINGS TO KNOW 

SOFT SOAP FOR WASHING MACHINE OR ANY WASHING 

Empty one can of lye into an iron kettle. Add three pints of cold water. 
Stir with a stick. Allow it to cool. Melt five pounds of clean grease or 
tallow free from salt, in a kettle and when entirely melted remove from 
fire and allow to cool enough to bear your hand in it. When grease is right 
temperature, not before, pour the cooled lye into the grease and stir until 
the lye and grease ai"e thoroughly combined and the mixture drops from 
stick like honey. Stir thoroughly taut not longer than necessary. Pour into 
box lined with flour sack to keep from sticking and cover with carpet; set in 
warm place for two or three days. This last process prevents the lye from 
separating and standing in the bottom. Directions for above found on lye 
can. Mine is the same down to the bottom of barrel. 

Now cut each pound into small pieces and add to each pound eight 
quarts of water in kettle and boil until soap is entirely melted. Before it is 
cold add one pint each of kerosene, turpentine, borax and ammonia. Stir 
well and you'll have about fifty-six quarts of beautiful soft soap. 

The cost amounts to fifteen cents for lye and forty cents for other things 
added, not counting the fat. This helps out on the H. C. L. and is very little 
work if directions are followed carefully. 

To Make Handkerchiefs Easy to Wash 

Put salt in a pail of cold water and soak handkerchiefs in it over night. 
The salt cuts the mucous and when rinced from salty water, are easily 
washed. 

Mrs. A. L. BALDWIN, 
623 James Street, E. Kent, Wash. 

HOW TO CLEAN AND DYE YOUR CLOTHES 

Home dyeing is cheap, easy, and full of possibility. Why wear spots and 
stains or yellowed white waists when a little home dyeing will give them 
new charm? You can dye your clothes permanently, or you can use one of 
the lighter weight dyes or stains that last for a few washings and enable 
you to change the color of your garment once in so often. Even with per- 
manent dyes, i£ you start with a light tone you can redye several times be- 
fore you exhaust the possibilities. 

Whatever brands of dye you use, be sure to follow directions explicitly. 
There are dyes for cottons, wools and silks. Be sure to use the right dye 
for the right material. The garment must be clean before dyeing or the 
resulting color will be dirty. 

By regulating the amount of dye in dye bath light or dark shades may be 
secured. It is a good idea to test the shade before dyeing, by coloring a 
small piece of the fabric in the dye bath. 

Almost any color will dye black, and almost any color that is not too dark 
will dye navy blue satisfactorily. Dark brown dye may be used for any 
colors except dark blue, black and red. You can dye any light and medium 
shades (except red) dark green. 

Of course, one knows that blue dye will turn yellow to green or red to 
purple; and green dye will dye red a dark brown or black. Sometimes 
fabrics will not dye an absolute black. If you dye a red material black and it 
stilll looks reddish, use a little green dye. For brown materials that have 
been dyed black use a little navy blue dye. 

If you are wise you will set your clothes before dyeing. 

Greens, blues, mauves, purples or purplish red should be soaked in alum 
water at least 10 minutes before dyeing. One gallon of water for an ounce 
of alum. Sugar of lead, used in the same way, is good for browns, brownish 
reds and tans. 

To keep the colors in cotton goods looking bright use a little turpentine 
in the suds. 

To keep the color in black cottons use the following method: Make a 
solution of black boiled dye and strain a little of it into your starch. Then 
strain the starch and proceed to starch your garment as usual. 



44 EAT MORE FISH 



Perspiration stains in colored dresses may be removed by soaking the 
garment an hour or two in cold water and then rubbing the places before 
washing with cornmeal instead of soap. 

Rust stains are usually removed by lemon and salt. 

A teaspoonful of soda and 10 cents' worth of chloride of lime in a gallon 
of water will remove mildew. Remove article from water in a few minutes 
and wash in clear water. Grass stains should be covered with cream of tar- 
ter, wet with water and placed in sun. 

For coffee and most fruit stains, pour boiling water through spots. Cold 
water will usually take out tea, chocolate or cocoa stains. 

Blood stains should always be soaked in cold water and when nearly 
gone use soapy water. 

Vaseline stains are very hard to remove. I think kerosene is the best 
thing to use. Soak the stain in it. All grease stains, such as axle, or 
machine oil, should be covered with lard, put in the sun if possible, washed 
with cold water and soap, then with very hot water and soap. 

Wax candle grease stains: Scrape them off then cover with clean 
blotting paper and press with hot iron. 

A Chinese method of removing black ink stains is to rub boiled rice on 
the stains as you would soap and wash in clear water. Repeat the process if 
the first ti-y is not successful. 

To clean a light trimming on dark dress cover with cornmeal saturated 
with non-explosive cleansing fluid. When fluid evaporates brush off the 
meal and your trimming will be clean. 

To remove perspiration stains which have colored a white waist make 
a paste of salt and water and apply to spots. Soak awhile and then wash in 
soap and water. You will find they have all disappeared. 

TAKING THE WHITE OFF COAT COLLARS 

Dark cloth coat collars often show white inside where they have come 
in contact with the neck. The great difficulty in cleaning them is overcome 
by the use of a spoon of ammonia in which enough salt has been put to 
make a mushy mixture. This, used as a cleanser, will remove all discol- 
orations. 

ABOUT COLD STORAGE . 

Do you know — 

That the present scientific cold storage warehouse is but the evolution 
from the farmer's cellar where he kept food from seasons of plenty to the sea- 
sons of scarcity? 

That proper cold storage is the most necessary and healthful of the 
several forms of food preservation? 

That cold storage simply annihilates time? 

That foods which go into cold storage in good condition come out in 
good condition? 

That without adequate cold storage warehouses to preserve the perish- 
able food products in time of overproduction there would be a very great 
scarcity in times when the supply of fresh foods was inadequate to supply 
the demand? ' 

That without cold storage at one season foods would be unprofitable to 
the producer and that in the season of scarcity they would be so high they 
would be beyond the reach of the average family? 

That there are laws governing the length of time food may be held in 
cold storage? 

That the cold storage man has nothing to gain by holding foods longer 
than sound economic principles will justify? 

That the temperature in the mechanical cold storage for preserving 
foods is as follows: 

Butter — 10 degrees below zero; 

Meat — 50 degrees below zero; 

Eggs — 30 degrees below zero; 

Poultry — Zero. 

Every step in the process of refrigeration must be correctly made. 



EAT MORE FISH 45 



GOOD THINGS TO KNOW 

SIMPLE AND EFFECTIVE COUGH REMEDY 

Peel raw beets and slice very thin. Put into a bowl with alternate layers 
of granulated sugar, using about the same bulk of each. Put under a press (a 
plate holding an iron or heavy rock will do), in a very short time the sirup 
will form for a first dose. Let stand several hours or over night and the 
quantity of sirup extracted will be a surprise. Drain and keep covered in a 
cool place. It is well not to make too much at a time, as it will ferment 
The dose need not be measured for either child or adult, as the sirup is 
harmless. It is the astringent quality of the beet combined with the sugar 
that will conquer the most stubborn cough. Put some of the sirup in a glass 
and direct the patient to sip a little whenever the irritation is noticeable, 
preferably before a spell of coughing. Frequent small doses are best 

CLARA E. HAZELGREEN, 
4213 Alki avenue, Seattle. 



SWAT THE FLY 



DpN'T PERMIT FLIES IN YOUR HOUSE. 

DON'T PERMIT FLIES NEAR YOUR FOOD. 

DON'T PERMIT FLIES NEAR THE SICK. 

DON'T PURCHASE FOODSTUFFS WHERE FLIES ARE TOLERATED. 

DON'T TOLERATE BREEDING PLACES IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD. 

Flies are bred in filth, live in filth and carry filth. 

Flies are the most dangerous insects known to man. 

Flies are the known distributers of many diseases, such as typhoid 
fever, tuberculosis, intestinal disorders, especially diarrhea and enteritis 
(summer complaint) of infants, as well as cholera. 

Flies visit the spitton of the careless consumptive, and other discharges 
from the sick, the open garbage pail, the manure pile, the carcass of the de- 
caying animal, the obstructed sewer and the refuse heap, and then call at 
your home to crawl over the exposed food, swim in the milk, wade through 
the butter or gambol over the nursing infant's face or bottle, or they will 
visit the unscreened grocery store, market, bakery or lunchroom. 

Flies carry germs of disease and filth on the hairs of their bodies and 
legs as well as on the fuzzy pads of their feet. These disease germs and 
particles of filth' are the dangerous unseen messengers of illness and death 
that files leave wherever they visit. Following a close study of a number of 
flies, it was found that the average fly carried more than 6,000,000 bacteria. 



SWAT THE FLY 



46 ^^^HP EAT MORE FISH 



TERMS USED IN COOKERY* 

A la. A la mode de, after the style or fashion of. 

Augflaise (a 1'). English style. fSomething plain roasted or plain boiled. 

Aspic. Savory jelly. 

Au Gratin. Covered with sauce, bread-crumbs, etc., and browned in the 
oven or under a salamander. 

Bernaise. A word much used in cookery for a rich white herb sauce. 

Bechamel. French white sauce. Recognized as one of the four foundation 
sauces. The name of this sauce is supposed to come from the Marquis de 
Bechamel. 

Bisque. Name given to certain soups usually made with shellfish. 

Blauc-Mangfe. A white sweet food. A sweet cream set in a mould. 

Boucliees. Small puff-paste patties (petit pates), small enough to be a tradi- 
tional mouthful only. 

Bouillon. A plain, clear soup. Unclarifled beef broth. 

Braise or Braising^. A slow cooking process. Meat cooked in a closely cov- 
ered stew pan (braising pan or brasiere) to prevent evaporation, so that the 
meat thus cooked retains not only its own juices, but also those of the articles 
added for flavoring. 

Caramel. Burnt sugar. A substance made by boiling sugar to a dark brown. 

Charlotte. Name of a hot or cold sweet dish. 

Comipote. Usually applied to a delicately prepared dish of stewed fruit, or 
fruits and jelly. 

Coiisomm.e. Clear, strong gravy soup. The clarified liquor in which meat 
or poultry has been boiled. 

Crociuettes and Bissoles. Names of small, light entrees (prepared with 
minced meat, etc.). 

Croustades. Shapes of bread fried, or baked paste crusts, used for serving 
game, minces, or meats in or upon. 

Croiitons. Thin slices of bread cut into shapes and fried, used for garnish- 
ing dishes and in soups. 

Dessert. The remains of a meal. Now indicating fruits and sweetmeats 
served after dinner. 

Bclair. A French pastry filled with cream. Bmiuce. Finely sliced or shred. 

Bntree. A course of dishes, or corner dish for the first course. 

Escalope. Thin, round steaks of veal, called "collops." 

Bspagrnole. A rich brown sauce: the foundation of nearly all brown sauces. 

Filet. The under cut of a loin of beef, mutton, veal, pork and game. 

Pole Gras. Fat goose liver. Forcemeat. Meat for stuffing. 

Fricassee. A white stew of chicken or veal. 

Fritter, Beigfuets. Anything dipped in batter, crumbled, or egged, and fried. 

Gateau. A round, flat cake, generally decorated. Glac6. Frozen, iced. 

Gumbo. The American term for okra soup or other preparations from okra. 

Hors-d'oeuvre. Appetizers. Dainty relishes, served cold before the soup. 

liiaison. The mixture of yolk of eggs, cream, etc., used for thickening or 
binding white soups and sauces. 

Macedoine. A mixture of various kinds of vegetables or fruits, cut in even- 
shaped disks. 

Maitre d'Hotel (a la). Hotel steward's fashion. Also the name of a flavoring 
butter, mixed with chopped parsley and seasoned with lemon juice, pepper and 
salt. 

Mayonnaise. A cold salad sauce, or dressing. 

Menu. The bill of fare. Literally the word means minute detail of courses. 

Mering'ue. Light pastry, made of white of eggs and sugar, filled with 
cream or ice. 

Kougrat. Almond rock candy. 

Paprika. Hungarian red pepper: less pungent than the Spanish pepper. 

Pate. A pie; pastry: a savory meat pastry, or a raised pie. 

Potag'e ,Soup. Broth or liquor: the first course of a dinner. 

Potpourri. A stew of various kinds of meats and spices. 

Puree. A smooth pulp; mashed vegetables; thick soups. 

Rag"out. A rich stew of meat, highly seasoned. 

Releve. A course of a dinner, consisting of large joints of meat, game, etc. 

Bemoulade. A cold sauce, flavored with savory herbs and mustard, used as 
salad dressing, etc. 

Bdti. The course of a meal which is served before the entrements. 

Rouz. A preparation of butter and flour, used for thickening soups and 
sauces. 

Sauter (ee). To toss over the fire, in a saut§ or frying pan, in little butter 
or fat; anything that requires a sharp fire and quick cooking. 

Sorbet. An iced Turkish drink; also a partly set water ice. 

Souffle. Literally "iDuffed up." A very light baked or steamed pudding, 
an omelet. 

Souffle Glace. A very light, sweet cream mixture, iced and served in cases. 

Tartare. A cold sauce, made of yolks of eggs, oil, mustard, capers, gherkins, 
etc., served with fried fish or cold meats. 

Timbale. A kind of crusted hash baked in a mould. 

Tutti-Frutti. A mixture of various kinds of fruits or cooked vegetables. 

Vol-au-vent. A light, round puff-paste crust, filled with delicately flavored 
ragouts of chicken, sweetbread, etc. 



EAT MORE FISH 47 



WAR-TIME RECIPES 

Becipes Tested and Approved in tlie Home Economics Department of 
the University of Washing-ton 

POTATOES 

Five pounds of potatoes equal in energy value one pound of white flour. 
Potatoes give you starch to act as fuel for the body to do its work. Potatoes 
give you minerals which are necessary for vital body processes. 

POTATOES WITHOUT WASTE 

"If you peel potatoes before cooking them you waste time and potatoes both. 
You throw away a sixth or even a quarter of the good part of the potatoes with 
the skins. Also if the potatoes aren't covered up by the skins while cooking 
some of the valuable material will soak out into the water." — U. S. Government 
Bulletin. 

"POTATOES THAT COOK ALL TO PIECES" 

Some potatoes fall to pieces in boiling before they are thoroughly cooked. 
Try draining them about five minutes before they are done. Set in a warm place 
and cover with several thicknesses of towel. They will retain sufficient lieat in 
themselves to finish cooking. 

Mealy potatoes are better steamed. 

TO DRAIN POTATOES 

Many failures in cooking potatoes are due to imperfect draining. All of tlie 
w-ater possible should be gotten rid of; first by pouring off all the water; second, 
by draining off all the steam possible. To allow as much of the water as pos- 
sible to change to steam, set the drained potatoes in a warm place and cover with 
a folded towel. If they are covered with a tin cover the steam will condense 
and run back, while a folded towel will absorb the steam and keep the potatoes 
warm. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

Chop cold boiled or baked potatoes fine. (An empty pound baking powder 
can makes a good chopper for this purpose.) Season potatoes well with salt 
and pepper. Turn them into a hot cast iron frying pan with just enough fat to 
keep them from sticking. Pack tight; add a little milk to make potatoes stick 
together. Cook until a brown crust forms. Fold like an omelet, and serve on a 
hot platter. 

Potatoes may be prepared in the same manner and baked in the oven until 
brown. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

1 Pint potatoes 2 Tablespoons flour 

1 Teaspoon salt 1 Tablespoon fat 

Slice potatoes very thin, using vegetable slicer. Put into a greased baking 
dish a layer of potatoes, sprinkle w^ith salt and flour and add fat. Repeat, mak- 
ing three layers. Cover with hot milk and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. 

POTATO SOUP 

2 Cups mashed potato 2 Tablespoons flour 

1 Quart milk 1% Teaspoons salt 

2 Slices onion Celery salt 
2 Tablespoons fat Pepper 

1 Teaspoon chipped parsley 

Mix flour with a little of the cold milk. Add the rest of the milk slowly to 
the mashed potato and combine with the flour and milk mixture. Add the 
remaining ingredients except parsley and boil one minute, stirring constantly. 
Add finely chopped parsley and serve. The pulp of any vegetable may be used 
instead of the potato, omitting the onion. 

Vegetable soups may be served with a little whipped cream if desired. — 
Cornell Bulletin. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

fi Medium sized potatoes Pepper 

2 Tablespoons f^ 3 Tablespoons milk 

Salt 
Bake the potatoes, remove from oven, cut slice from top of each and scoop 

out inside. Mash, add fat, salt, pepper and milk; refill skins and bake five to 

eight minutes in very hot oven. Potatoes may be sprinkled with grated cheese 
before putting in oven. 



EAT MORE FISH 



POTATOES O'BRIEN 

For Special Occasions 

Fry potato cubes — or balls — in deep fat. Drain on paper, sprinkle with salt. 
Cook onion in a little fat three minutes, remove onion and add to fat minced 
pimento. When thoroughly heated add potatoes, stir until well mixed, and 
sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 

SHEPHERD'S PIE 

Chop any cold meat fine or cut in cubes. Moisten with gravy or white sauce 
well seasoned. Put in baking dish and cover with mashed potatoes. Brown in 
ovdn. 

HUNGARIAN POTATOES 

1 Quart cooked potatoes 2 Cups tomatoes 

3 Tablespoons fat 1 Teaspoon salt 

1 Tablespoon chopped onion % Teaspoon paprika 

2 Tablespoons parsley , 

Brown onion slightly in fat and add to diced potatoes. Add remaining ingre- 
dients except parsley to potatoes and put in greased pan. Bake, covered, in a 
moderate oven forty-five minutes. Sprinkle top with chopped parsley and serve- 
— Official Recipe Book, Illinois 

FRANCONIA POTATOES 

Parboil potatoes for ten minutes. Remove the skins and place the potatoes 
on a roasting rack with meat. Bake until the potatoes are soft, or for about 
forty minutes, basting them occasionally. These can be prepared without the 
meat, by using fat for basting. 

BISCUITS 

1 Cup cornmeal 3 Tablespoons melted fat 

1 Cup mashed potatoes ?4 Cup milk 

3 Tablespoons white flour 5 Teaspoons baking powder 
Vz Teaspoon salt 

Mix dry ingredients, make a well, add potato, fat and milk. Fold carefully. 
Turn on a floured board, roll and cut. 

WAFFLES 

2/3 Cup white flour 2 2/3 Teaspoons baking powder 

2/3 Cup mashed potatoes 2 Eggs 

14 Teaspoon salt 3 Tablespoons fat 

2 Tablespoons sugar Ts Cup milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, beaten yolks of eggs and fat melted. Fold in 
beaten whites of eggs. 

POTATO MUFFINS 

% Cup mashed potatoes li Teaspoon salt 

1% Cups graham flour 4 Tablespoons fat 

4% Teaspoons baking powder 2 Eggs 

2 Tablespoons sugar 14 Cvip milk 

Cream fat and sugar together, add potatoes and cream together. Add beaten 
egg yolks and mix. Add some sifted dry ingredients, milk, mix thoroughly. Add 
more flour, milk; cut and fold. Fold in stiffly beaten egg, w^hite last. 

CORN AND BARLEY MUFFINS 

1 Cup cornmeal I/2 Teaspoon salt 

% Cup barley flour 1 Egg 

% Cup mashed potatoes M Cup butter (melted) 

% Cup sugar % Cup milk 

3 Teaspoons baking powder 

Mix dry ingredients: make a well, pour in milk, butter and egg. Cut and fold. 

SHORT CAKE 

1 % Cups flour ii Teaspoons baking powder 

14 Cup mashed potato 6 Tablespoons fat 

% Cup milk 2 Tablespoons sugar 

% Teaspoon salt 
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in the potato, add milk and last the 
melted fat. Roll lightly 1 inch thick. Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

1 Cup graham flour 4 Teaspoons baking powder 

1 Cup sweet potatoes 2 Eggs 

4 Teaspoons sugar 1 Cup inilk 

% Teaspoon salt 4 Tablespoons fat 

Cream butter and sugar and cream potato into tliis. Mix dry ingredients 
and add to first mixture alternatively with egg and milk. Batter should be as 
thick as cake batter. Bake in a hot oven. 



EAT MORE FISH 



49 



POTATO AND BARLEY GRIDDLE CAKES 

?4 Cup barley floui- 4 Teaspoons baking powder 

34 Cup mashed potatoes 2 Eggs beaten light 

V4 Teaspoon salt 3 Tablespoons melted fat 

2 Tablespoons sugar 1 Cup milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Make a well and pour in beaten eggs, milk 
and melted fat. Cut and fold lightly. 

BOSTON FAVORITE CAKE (With Potato) 

% Cup butter 11/2 Cups flour 

1 Cup sugar %' Cup mashed potatoes 

2 Eggs % Teaspoon salt 

14 Cup milk 21/^ Teaspoons baking powder 

1 Teaspoon vanilla 
The same rules regarding moisture and quantity of flour which are used in 
making bread with potato as supplement apply in cake. Mashed potato in cake 
is added after the egg is added to the creamed butter and sugar. 

POTATO BREAD 

Using mashed potato in bread allow 50% of the bulk of potato for liquid and 
50% for flour supplement. 

The amount of moisture in potatoes is variable, therefore the exact amount 
of flour in a given recipe cannot be stated. 

Any method may be used in making potato bread, except in the sponge 
method the mashed potato is added to the sponge and less of the flour will be 
required to make the sponge of proper consistency. 

% Cup water 1% Teaspoon salt 

1/^ Cake compressed yeast % Cup potato (mashed) 

1 Teaspoon sugar 2 Cups flour 

1 Teaspoon fat 

Potato may be used in whole wheat bread. 

A small potato (% oz.) supplies as much starch as a slice of bread (1 oz.). 

For warmed-over potatoes try using cold baked instead of boiled potatoes. 

HOW UNCLE SAM WARNS THE FIFSH DEALERS 

Copied from 

A DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE BULLETIN 



WHY DON'T PEOPLE EAT MORE FISH? 



This question is being asked every- 
where. 

Manjf people say they can not get 
fish in first-class condition. They 
say they can not get the varie- 
ties — especially the new ones — 
they want. 

Are these REASONS or EXCUSES? 

It makes no difference: YOU will 
not have a chance to argue the 
matter. 

You've got to SHOW THEM. 

YOU know that the minute fish die 
their flavor begins to fade, and 
that they are on their way to 
spoiling unless they are kept ice 
cold at all times. The customer 
may not know this, but he knows 
whether a fish tastes good or not. 

Do you keep your fish ICE COLD 
AT ALL TIMES? 

Are there flies in your shop? 



Is your shop spotlessly clean? Are 
your salesmen cleanly in body, 
clothes, and habits? 

Do you advise with your customers 
about fish: What kinds to buy 
and when; how to protect and 
cook them? Are you trying to in- 
troduce new fish to them? 

Are you laboring to make EVERY 
DAY A FISH DAY? 

You have never had a better chance 
to help your business and your 
country. But you must show the 
clean shop, sell the perfectly 
fresh fish, and give your cuso- 
mers the benefit of your knowl- 
edge and experience. 

Let the Bureau of Fisheries assist 
you: Ask for a set of the Bu- 
reau's circulars to show your cus- 
tomers. Tell you customers to 
ask for them, too. 



THE UNITED STATES BUREAU OF FISHERIES — DIVISION F. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 



50 EAT MORE FISH 



SUGARLESS CANDY RECIPES 

These recipes were sent to the candy contest for which the Conserva- 
tion Committee of Illinois State Council of Defense offered prizes in the in- 
terest of sugar conservation. None of them call for any kind of brown or 
white sugar made from cane of beets. 

The first three were the prize winners in the rotation given. 

A recommendation of the Woman's Committee is to use vegetable oils 
with a pinch of salt in place of butter in all recipes. 

HONEY CARMELS 
1 Cup milk 1 Teaspoon corn oil 

J4 Cup honey 1 Pinch salt 

% Cup corn syrup 

Heat the honey, corn syrup and salt to the boiling point. Add the milk 
gradually, stirring constantly. When the mixture becomes thick, add the 
corn oil and cook until it forms a firm, soft ball, when tested in cold water. 
Turn into a greased pan and cut in squares when cold. Any kind of nut 
meats can be added just before taking from fire. 

PECAN BRITTLE 
1 Cup maple syrup Pecan meats 

Boil until it crackles in cold water. Four enough over nuts placed in 
greased tins to hold them together, 

MAPLE SUGAR CANDY 

1 Pound maple sugar 1 Cup ground nut meats 
|/2 Cup milk 

Chop sugar. Boil milk and sugar together until it will form a ball in 
cold water. Take off the stove and beat it until it starts to cream. Add 
the nuts, stirring them in thoroughly. Serve plain or roll in cocoanut. 

MAPLE CANDIES— LIBERTY CANDY 

2 Cups maple syrup ^ Cup chopped nuts 

1 Piece of butter size of walnut 

Boil syrup and butter until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold 
water; add nuts and beat thoroughly. Any kind of nuts desired may be used. 

MAPLE FUDGE 

Roll out enough maple sugar fine to fill three cups. Place it in a sauce- 
pan with one cup of milk and a rounding tablespoon of butter. Allow it to 
cook, beating it constantly until it boils away from the sides of the saucepan 
(or until it forms a soft ball when tested in cold water) ; when cooked re- 
move from fire; let it become cool; add one teaspoon of vanilla, and beat it 
vigorously until thick enough to drop into a greased tin. Mark in squares. 
UNCLE SAM WALNUT FUDGE 

Boil two cups maple sugar, one cup milk, half cup cocoa, and butter 
half size of an egg until it strings. Do not stir while cooking. Add a tea- 
spoon vanilla and beat until almost hard. Have ready a greased tin, cover 
the bottom of same very thick with black walnut meats, pour mixture over 
this. Mark off in squares. 

MAPLE CREAM 

2 Cups maple sugar 1 Cup cream 

Stir without boiling until dissolved. Then boil without stirring until a 
little dropped in ice water forms a soft ball that does not slide. Pour into 
mixing bowl and when cooled a little beat until creamy and shape into bon 
bons. Half a walnut, or piece, may be placed on top of each. 

MAPLE CREAMS 

Take half as much water as maple syrup, cook without stirring and when 
nearly done put in a small piece of butter. Try in water and when it begins 
to harden take off and stir rapidly until it becomes a waxen substance. Then 
make in balls and put English walnuts on either side, putting on a greased 
plate to cool. 



EAT MORE FISH 51 



FRENCH DAINTIES 

Soak two envelopes acidulated gelatine in one cup cold water. Add one 
and one-half cups boiling water. When dissolved add four cups maple sugar 
and boil slowly for fifteen minutes. Divide the mixture into two equal parts. 
When a little cooled add one part to one-half teaspoon lemon extract. To 
the other part add one-half teaspoon extract of cloves, or color. Pour into 
shallow tins that have been dipped in cold water. Let stand over night. 
Then cut in squares and take out of tins. Roll in maple sugar and let stand 
until crystallized. Vary by using different flavor colors, and adding chopped 
nuts, dates or figs. Any fruit can be used when chopped. 

FRUIT CANDIES— NUTTED FRUITS 
1 Cup stoned dates 1 Cup nut meats 

1 Cup seeded raisins 

Run all through food chopper twice, form into ball and roll out to thick- 
ness wanted. Cut in squares. 

FRUIT CARAIVIELS 
Take equal parts of raisins, dates, figs and nuts; grind fine and press 
flat on an oiled dish, sprinkle on grated or shredded cocoanut and cut into 
caramels. 

RAISIN, NUT AND HONEY BARS 
Take two cups raisins and one cup nuts and grind them together in a 
food chopper. Mix them with a quarter cup of honey and put into an 
enameled psn. Pack under a weight for twenty-four hours. Cut into bars. 

IViOLASSES CANDIES AND TAFFY— MOLASSES CANDY 
1 Cup molasses 1 Piece of butter size of an egg 

1 Cup corn syrup 1 Tablespoon vinegar 

Boil, but do not stir until it hardens when dropped in cold water. When 
done stir in a teaspoon of soda, beat well, and pour into greased tins. When 
cool pull until white, cuts into sticks. Flavor, if desired, just before pouring 
out to cool. 

CHOCOLATE TAFFY 
'/4 Cup maple sugar 1 Piece chocolate inch square 

1 -Cup honey 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil until it makes a hard ball in cold water, 270 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Add the flavoring extract and put in a greased dish to cool. Pull until light, 

IVIOLASSES PEANUT 
1/2 Pound corn syrup 10 Ounces peanuts 

'/2 Pound molasses 

Cook syrup and molasses to soft ball and set off fire. Add the peanuts. 
Mix well and pour into oiled cooling pans. Allow to cool and roll smooth. 
Cut into balls. 

COCOANUT CANDIES— COCOANUT SQUARES 

1 Pound corn syrup % Pound grated cocoanut 

Cook syrup to a soft ball. Set off fire and add the cocoanut. Add a 
small amount of vanilla flavoring and turn into cooling pan coated with 
cocoa butter or some similar material and allow to cool. It may then be 
cut into squares. These squares can be dipped in maple cream or molasses 
syrup. 

FIG COCOANUT 

1 Pound corn syrup J/2 Pound ground figs 

'/2 Pound cocoanut 

Cook syrup to soft ball. Set off fire and add cocoanut, then figs. Add a 
small amount of vanilla flavoring and turn into a cooling pan coated wath 
cocoa butter or similar material. It may then be cut into squares. 
HONEY CANDIES AND NOUGAT— HONEY CANDY 
1 Cup syrup 4 Tablespoons honey 

Boil until it becomes brittle, when dropped into cold water. Pull while 
still warm. 



52 EAT MORE FISH 



FAMOUS ITALIAN CANDY 

Boil one pint of honey, two pounds chopped nuts (almonds"), three- 
fourths pound chopped pecans, one teaspoon of powdered cinnamon, and one- 
half pound of grated chocolate. When thick and smooth, cool and roll out. 
Cut into round cakes and dry them in the oven. 

CARAMELS— CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 
Cut two pounds almonds and three-fourths pound pecan nuts fine and 
boil them with two cups honey, one teaspoon cinnamon and one-half pound 
cocoa until quite thick, 260 degrees, using a candy thermometer. Cool and 
roll out. Cut in squares. 

STEAMED BARLEY PUDDING 
1 Cup molasses % Cup corn meal 

1 Cup sour milk 1 Cup barley flour 

1 Egg y^ Teaspoon salt 

1 Teaspoon soda 1 Cup chopped raisins 

Beat egg, add molasses, milk and soda dissolved in a little cold water. 
Sift corn meal and barley flour together and combine with first mixture. 
Add chopped raisins, and pour into well greased baking powder tins or 
popover cups. If the latter are used, cover each cup with a well greased 
paper. Steam two hours. 

PANCAKES 

3 Cups barley flour 2 Cups sour milk 

2 Teaspoons baking powder 1 Egg 

1 Teaspoon salt 2 Tablespoons melted butter 

2 Tablespoons sugar 1 Teaspoon soda 

EXCELLENT CHEAP CHOCOLATE CAKE 
1 Cup brown sugar 1J/^ Cups flour 

Yz Cup hot coffee I/a Teaspoonful baking powder 

Yz Cup boiling water Y^- Teaspoonful soda 

Y^ Cup grated chocolate or cocoa '/^ Cup of crisco or butter substitute 
Method — Put sugar, crisco, coffee, and water in which the soda has been 
dissolved, into a bowl. Add flour and baking powder. Beat well. Bake in 
one layer in a medium hot oven. Chopped nuts may be added. 

Frosting — Dissolve V2 cup of powdered sugar in 1 tablespoonful of cream 
or milk. 

BRAN HEALTH BREAD 
2 Cups bran flour 1 Teaspoonful salt 

J/2 Cup corn meal Yz Cup of sugar 

2Y2 Cups white flour 2J/2 Cups milk 

5 Teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Method — Sift all the dry ingredients together, and add to the milk. Nuts 
or raisins may be added. Bake in a slow oven until the loaves are double 
their size then add more heat. Bake in two loaves for thirty minutes. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT WITH ROLLED OATS 
V/2 Cups flour Y2 Teaspoonful salt 

^Y2 Cups rolled oats 2 Level tablespoonfuls crisco, 

4 Level teaspoonfuls baking powder Add milk to make soft dough 
Method — Sift flour, baking powder and salt together; add the rolled 

oats, then the shortening. Add the milk, making a soft biscuit dough. Roll 
%-inch thick and cut into biscuits. Bake in quick oven. This recipe makes 
16 biscuits. 

RICE PUDDING 
Splendid to Go With Fish Dinner 
Mrs. G. D. Reid, of Seattle, sends in the following splendid recipe for 
Stirred-in Rice Pudding: 
1 scant cup rice \V2 cups sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 2 quarts milk 

Flavor to taste. 
Method: Wash rice, place with other ingredients in pan, cook slowly, 
on top of stove, stirring frequently to prevent rice settling. When rice is 
cooked, set in oven, until top is nicely browned. 




The above pictures show: 

Foster, the mess cook, with a Rock Cod on the block 

Cannery and fishing boats. Puget -Sound. 

Moonlight among the San Juan Islands 

One of the big clams, on the^elebrated Puget Sound Clam Beach. 

— Photos by McCormack, Friday Harbor. 



54 EAT MORE FISH 



FISHING FLEET IN ACTION 

Motion Pictures and Stereopticon Slides Showing 

THE GREAT SALMON FISHERIES IN ACTUAL OPERATION 
Trap Fishing — Purse Seine Fishing — Troll Fishing — Salmon Canning 

STEREOPTICON SLIDES: EDUCATIONAL— INDUSTRIAL 

CRAWFORD'S STORY OF THE SALMON in Movies and Slides is the 
most complete educational lecture and description of the great Canned 
Salmon Industry and salmon fisheries ever produced. 

THE STORY IS ILLUSTRATED with slides made up from actual pic- 
tures taken mostly by Mr. Crawford himself and they show eveiy phase of 
this great business. We sincerely believe that we are offering the very 
best lot of slides and motion pictures ever made covering the Pacific Coast 
Fisheries. 

A FEW SUBJECTS 

PROPAGATION — Natural and artificial, telling the story of the salmon 
from the time it begins its mad race home to spawn, thus fulfilling its life 
mission, and die, until the eggs pass through the hatchery and the young 
salmon are released and go to some unknown place in the ocean. 

W. I. C. Lecture can be secured covering each slide, in a simple and 
practical manner describes each species, their habits, hatchery methods, etc. 

TRAP FISHING — Manner of construction, different kinds, lifting, brail- 
ing, etc. 

TROLL FISHING — Methods and gear used, kind of boats, real sport, etc. 

PURSE SEINE FISHING — Boats, men, gear, making set, hauling in, etc. 

DRAG OR BEACH SEINE — Gear, methods, etc. 

GILL NET FISHING — Boats, gear, methods, etc. 

BUYING FISH — Buying station, buyers, receiving, handling, etc. 

Cannery Series of slides show complete process of canning, butchering, 
cutting, can filling, cooking, soldering, etc., also shown in movies. 

Story of Port Angeles, Neah Bay, Cape Flattery, etc. Approximately 
300 slides, including additional views of boats, camp life, statistical data, 
age theory, capital invested, etc. 

THE FIRST MOTION PICTURES EVER TAKEN OF THE FISHING 
FLEET IN ACTION, THE INTERIOR OF CANNERY, ETC. 

CRAWFORD'S STORY OF THE SALMON 

PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS AND LECTURES 

OPEN DATES — A limited number of open dates can be made for any 
desired part of the Stoi-y of the Salmon, with lecture, for Science Clubs, 
Woman's Clubs, Improvement Leagues, Churches, Associations, Conven- 
tions, etc. 

Colleges, Universities, Schools, Commercial Bodies, etc., where Motion 
Picture Machine can be used, should avail themselves of the opportunity 
to secure slides and see the motion pictures of Ocean Fishing, Salmon 
Canning, etc. 



EAT MORE FISH 55 



(Card Lecture) 

TWO SOCKEYE SALMON 

Slide 34 Negative 328 

Crawford's Story of the Salmon 

Copyrighted 

There is no other fisli lilce the salmon It is truly a most wonderful fish 
and the "Story of the Salmon" is a wonderful story. 

We read about the hardy fisherman: we often go fishing; we see the thou- 
sands of salmon brought into the canneries; we read about the countless num- 
ber of salmon packed, of the car loads, train loads and ship loads of canned 
salmon sold; we hear of the immense capital invested and the pack worth 
milions of dollars. But that is not the "Story of the (Salmon. " 

If in the schol or class room, showing this picture to the children we would 
likely say: 

Here we have a picture of a male and a female, Alaska Red, which is same 
specie as the Puget Sound Sockeye Salmon: See the distinguishing difference, 
the smaller nose, more symmetrical shape and prettier lines of the female, or 
as we will term it the "Lady Salmon," while the other, or "Gentleman Salmon," 
has the strong rugged frame and features of the man. 

Strange as it may seem, Mr. Salmon never has but one wife or mate. 

Four years ago in some river, creek or lake which is fed by water from 
some snow-capped mountain, or in some fish hatchery, these two Mr. and Mrs. 
Salmon were born. They with millions of other fish children played around in 
the creek or lake, leaping the water falls, swimming the rapids and possibly 
making love to one another. 

One day after thus playing together for a time, possibly a year, they, with 
thousands of other fish children, eloped. They started for the ocean, two and 
two together, madly rushing and swimming over riffles, nothing could stop 
them. Where were they going and for what? Who knows? They went into 
the great ocean. But where and why? 

We only know they lost themselves in the great Pacific. We know that 
some great invisible power led them on, impelling and compelling them to 
go and go. 

We know that whether they went to the most Northern Sea or the farthest 
South, they came back; they never forgot the little river, creek or lake in 
which they played when children. Like true hearted men, they never forgot 
their home land. 

Strange as it may seem, at the same time and possibly about the same 
day and hour, these two and all the other Sockeye salmon that fled to the ocean 
on that day three or four years ago, and mind you, no otlier salmon, no matter 
in what part of the world they were, suddenly turned toward home. They were 
now grown to fish manhood and fish womanhood. They hurry faster and faster; 
on they come, faster than any ship, steering direct for the river from whence 
they came. They enter the river, they rush on. some are caught in the traps, 
nets, snares, etc., set for them; others keep going on: some turn into one creek, 
some into another, for each one knows the creek in which it was born. 

They jump the rapids, leap the falls, they struggle on and on, the creek 
becomes narrow, the w'aters shallow, they scrape their very bellies on the 
gravel. Still they push on, never stopping: they overcome every obstacle. For 
what? Simply to propagate their species and die. In doing this they perform 
the functions of and fulfill the purpose of their life, as the divine Creator 
intended they should. 

In a few short months these same rivers will again swarm with little baby 
salmon, who when they hear the call of destiny will start on that mad race to 
the ocean, to return as father and mother salmon did, and die. IS THIS NOT 
ENOUGH TO MAKE THE STORY OF THE SALMON A WONDERFUL rSTORY? 
(Extempore.) 

(Now, boys and girls, there is a lesson for you in the story of the Sock- 
eye, etc., etc.) 



Note: — It is most interesting to know how the female salmon deposits the 
spawn, ova or eggs, which is its life giving organ: How the male salmon de- 
posits thereon the milt, which is the spermatic or life giving organ of the 
male. How the eggs hatch, develop, grow and mature. All of which is told in 
the "Storv of the Salmon." 



56 



EAT MORE FISH 



SLIDES FOR SALE 

We have concluded to offer for sale any or all of the stereopticon slides, 
ranging in price .75 to $2.00, depending on coloring, quantity and whether 
card lecture accompanies same. 

SALMON SERIES— W. I. C, SLIDES— PROPAGATION 

3 Two Four-Year-Olds C photo slide 

4 Small Boy Dragging Spring Salmon C Photo slide 

302 Five Species Pacific Coast Salmon M photo slide * 

303 Four Human Species. Three Caught on One Line_C photo slide 

304 Washington State Fish Hatchery C photo slide * 

305 Inside View State Fish Hatchery C photo slide * 

306 Ascending Green River to Fish Hatchery C colored 

307 Tacoma Power Dam — Green River C colored 

308 Green River Dam at Hatchery C photo slide 

309 Fishway Over Dam in River C photo slide 

15 Fish Ascending River Rapids D photo slide * 

310 Fish Ascending an Alaska River photo slide * 

311 River Full of Fish — Going to Spawn D photo slide * 

312 Fancy Fish Jumping Rocks C colored 

313 Fish Ascending the Swift Current C photo slide * 

314 Eyeing Out Station — Green River C photo slide * 

315 New Building — Green River Eyeing Station C photo slide * 

316 Old Breeding Sockeye Salmon C photo slide * 

317 Hatchery Crew Ready to Take Spawn C photo slide * 

318 Salmon Eggs (spawn) 30 Days After Taking C photo slide * 

3181/^ Salmon Eggs as They Show in Hatchery Trough__C photo slide * 

318A First Appearance of Fungus Growth on Dead Egg-C photo slide 

318B Nine Hours Fungoid Growth on Dead Egg C photo slide 

318C Hatched Out and Destroyed by Fungus Growth C photo slide 

319 Salmon Eggs (50 to 55 days) Just Eyeing Out M photo slide * 

319% Salmon Eggs Hatching Out in Hatchery Trough C photo slide * 

320 Spawn One Day After Hatching Out M photo slide * 

320 Various Appearances, Hatching Out C photo slide 

Two Weeks Out, Five Weeks Out (two on one 

slide) C photo slide 

321 90 Days After Taking (30 days hatched out) M photo slide * 

3211/^ Salmon Fry as They Appear in Hatchery Trough C photo slide * 

322 Salmon Fry 105 Days in Hatchery (55 days hatch- 

ed out) C photo slide * 

3221/^ Salmon Fry 78 Days Hatched (125 in hatchery) ___M photo slide * 

323 Development of Salmon Egg (1 day to 10 months) _C photo slide * 

324 Chinook Salmon (artificially fed 9 months) com- 

pared with one 16 months in natural spawning 

grounds C photo slide * 

325 Oncorhynchus Tschawytscha Chinook Salmon; 

King Salmon (quinat salmon), Tyee Salmon or 

Spring Salmon — Breeding — 2 on slide C colored 

326 Spring Salmon Breeding (4 on slide) C colored 

327 Oncorhynchus nerka, Sockeye, or Sockeye Salmon; 

Blueback Salmon, Red Salmon, Redflsh or Nerka 

Salmon — -Breeding (5 on slide) C colored * 

328 Alaska Red (Breeding), 2 on slide C colored 

329 Oncorhynchus Kitsutch, Coho Salmon, Silver 

Salmon, or Medium Red — ^Breeding (2 on slide) _C colored * 

329V^ Humpback (2 on slide) C colored * 

330 Oncorhynchus gorbuscha. Humpback Salmon, Pink 

Salmon or Gorbuscha Salmon — Breeding (2 on 

slide) C colored * 

331 Humpback, Pink Salmon (4 on slide) C colored 

332 Oncorhynchus Keta, Calico Salmon, Dog Salmon 



EAT MORE FISH 



57 



333 



339 

340 

341 

3411/2 

342 

343 

344 

345 

346 

347 

348 

349 



350 
351 
352 
353 
354 



355 
356 
357 
358 
359 
360 
361 

362 
363 

364 
365 

367 
368 
369 
370 
371 
372 
373 
374 
375 
376 
377 
378 
379 
380 
381 
382 
383 
384 
385 
386 



or Chum Salmon — Breeding C colored 

Salmo Gairdneri, Steel Head Salmon, Steelhead. 
Hardhead, Winter Salmon, Salmon Trout or 

Square-Tailed Trout — iBreeding C colored 

SALMON SERIES— TRAP FISHING 

iDouble Fish Trap, Puget Sound M photo slide 

Trap Full of Fish M photo slide 

Gasoline Trap Brailer, Puget Sound M photo slide 

Inside the Spiller M photo slide 

Filling the Brailer M photo slide 

Lifting the Brailer M photo slide 

A Brailer Full of Fish M photo slide 

Emptying the Brailer M photo slide 

Emptying the Brailer M photo slide 

Lifting Pot Web M photo slide 

Leveling the Scow M photo slide 

Columbia River Trap C photo slide 

SALMON SERIES— GILL NET FISHING 

Going Out to the Banks C colored 

Taking in the Net C colored 

Gillnetters' Buying Station C colored 

At Night— Waiting for the Tide M photo slide 

Gillnetters in Camp M photo slide 

SALMON SERIES— TROLL FISHING 

Trolling in the Tide Rip C colored 

A Modern Power Troll Boat C colored 

A Successful Troller (San Juan) C colored 

Troller Floating With the Tide C colored 

Five-Line Troller C colored 

Pulling One In C colored 

Troller Pulling Two Dories C colored 

SALMON SERIES— OLY STYLE PURSE SEINE FISHING 

Old Way of Taking Fish from Seines C photo slide 

At the End of the Day C photo slide 

SALMON SERIES— DRAG SEINE FISHING 

Drag Seineing on Columbia River C colored 

Emptying the Drag Seine C colored 

SALMON SERIES— MODERN PURSE SEINE FISHING 

Three Well-to-Do Purse Seine Fishermen C photo slide 

A Small Purse Seine Boat on the Beach C photo slide 

Purse Seiners in Camp C photo slide 

Purse Seiner's Family C colored 

Purse Seiner's Children C colored 

Salmon Banks Barber Shop C colored 

Modern Purse Seine Boat. Ready for Departure__C colored 

Purse Seiner's Summer Camp C colored 

Throwing Out the Seine C colored 

Surrounding a School of Salmon C colored 

Taking Purse Line from Dory — (End of Haul) C colored 

Pursing With the Winch C colored 

Beginning to Haul In C colored 

Hauling Over the Side C colored 

Pulling In the Fish C colored 

Pulling In the Seine C colored 

Brailing the Seine C colored 

Talking Politics C colored 

Piling Web on Turntable C colored 

Piling Web on Turntable C colored 



58 



EAT MORE FISH 



387 The Hungry Crew at Breakfast C colored 

388 At the Buyer's Boat C colored 

389 On the Way to the Cannery C colored 

390 Oil Station at Salmon Banks C colored 

SALMON SERIES— OPENING OF SALMON BAY DOCK, SEATTLE 

391 The Tacoma Purse Seiners' Flag Ship C photo slide 

392 Wake Up! Tacoma! ___C photo slide 

393 Fleet Leaving Tacoma C colored 

394 Program Committee on Purse Seine Boat "Sun- 

set" C colored 

395 Tacoma Water Front C photo slide 

396 Purse Seiners Leaving Tacoma C colored 

397 On the Way to Seattle from Tacoma C photo slide 

398 Crossing the Channel C photo slide 

399 The Fleet in Puget Sound Going to Seattle C photo slide 

400 Chief Marshall's Flagship C photo slide 

401 In Salmon Bay — The Fleet D photo slide 

402 Oregon and Oregonian C photo slide 

403 Purse Seine Boat Making for Shelter C colored 

SALMON SERIES— NEAH BAY SERIES 

415 Snohomish Going to Sea C photo slide 

416 Snohomish at Close Range C photo slide 

418 Out On the Ocean C colored 

419 Buying Fish Out in the Ocean C photo slide 

420 Delivering Fish Out in the Ocean C colored 

421 Purse Seiners at Neah Bay C photo slide 

422 Neah Bay Dock C colored 

423 Our Headquarters, Neah Bay M photo slide 

424 Looking Toward the Shore M colored 

425 The Bunk House W&S photo slide 

426 Harold Ides C photo slide 

CANNERY SERIES 

428 City of Port Angeles C photo slide 

429 Lumberjacks of Port Angeles C colored 

430 Manhattan Cannery , C colored 

431 Manhattan Cannery Fire C colored 

432 Showing Boiler House and Light Plant in Ruins C colored 

433 View of Cannery After Fire C colored 

434 View from Interior After Fire C colored 

435 View from Bath Room C colored 

436 General View of Cannery — Rebuilt C photo slide 

437 The Fire Brigade C photo slide 

438 The Chemical Extinguisher at Work C photo slide 

439 The Cannery Messenger on Motorcycle C colored 

440 Skilled Cannery Labor C photo slide 

441 Some of the Cannery Employes at Lunch Hour C photo slide 

442 Cannery Walk Between Warehouses C photo slide 

443 Two Heads on One Plate C photo slide 

444 One of Us — A Beautiful Face C photo slide 

445 Peter Schwartz C photo slide 

446 Mar Kin, Chinese Foreman C photo slide 

447 Looking Down Between the Warehouses C photo slide 

448 Receiving Salmon at the Cannery C photo slide 

449 Fish on Cannery Floor C photo slide 

450 Fish and Iron Chink C photo slide 

451 Salmon as Cleaned by the Iron Chink C photo slide 

452 Sliming Troughs C photo slide 

453 Indian Slimers at Work C photo slide 

454 Front View of Slimers at Work C photo slide 

455 Gang Knives for Cutting Fish C photo slide 



EAT MORE FISH 



59 



456 
457 
458 
459 
460 
461 
462 
463 
464 
465 
466 
467 
468 
469 
470 
471 
472 
473 
474 
475 
476 
477 
478 
479 
480 
481 
482 
483 
484 
485 
486 
487 
488 



495 
496 
497 
498 
499 
500 



515 
517 
518 
519 
520 
521 
522 
523 
524 

525 
526 
527 
528 
529 
531 
532 
536 



Fish Cutter at Work C colored 

Filling Machines — Sanitary C photo slide 

Filling Machines with Female Operators C colored 

Sanitary Filling Machines in Operation C photo slide 

Hand Fillers Tables C colored 

Inspectors or Patchers C colored 

General View of Cannery Line C photo slide 

Chipping Table M photo slide 

Sanitary Clinching Machines in Operation M photo slide 

Exhaust Boxes — Sanitary C photo slide 

Through the Soldering Machine Down the Line C photo slide 

Sanitary Closing Machines M photo slide 

Passing Through Bath Room to Retorts C photo slide 

Hot End at Exhaust Box M photo slide 

The Retorts C photo slide 

At the Retorts M photo slide 

At the Lye Wash C photo slide 

Trucking into Warehouse C photo slide 

Cans Piled in Warehouse C photo slide 

Cans Piled in Warehouse C photo slide 

Label Machine at Work C photo slide 

Labelled Cans Ready for the Boxes M photo slide 

Box Nailing Machine : M photo slide 

Electric Truck C photo slide 

The Salmon Story — Part 1 C printed 

The Salmon Story — Part 2 C printed 

Salmon Fricasee, with Recipe C colored 

Baked Salmon, with Recipe C colored 

Salmon Fritter, Loaf, Salad, Egg C colored 

Salmon Breakfast, Omelet, Fritters, Croquets C colored 

Cannery at Astoria, Oregon C colored 

Making Trap Wire, Friday Harbor M photo slide 

Cannery of L. P. P. Company M photo slide 

AFTER THE SEASON 

An Alaska Cannery at End of Season C photo slide 

In Winter Quarters M photo slide 

A Cannery Pile Driver C colored 

In the Tar Shed M photo slide 

The Net Racks M photo slide 

Fisherman's Winter Quarters M photo slide 

MISCELLANEOUS SLIDES 

Prof. Kingsley's Analysis C printed slide 

Food Value of Salmon C printed slide 

Black Fish taken in Salmon Trap (extra fine) C photo slide 

Age of Salmon as Read by the Scales (Ward) C photo slide 

Age of Salmon as Read by the Scales (Ward) C photo slide 

So'ckeye Scale, male 3-year-old (Gilbert) C photo slide 

Sockeye Scale, male 4-year-old (Gilbert) C photo slide 

Sockeye Scale, female 4-year-old (Gilbert) C photo slide 

King or Spring, scale from immature male (Gil- 
bert) C photo slide 

Sockeye Scale, 5-year-old (Gilbert) C photo slide 

King or Spring, scale from 6-year-old (Gilbert) C photo slide 

King or Spring, scale, mature male (Gilbert) C photo slide 

Coho or Silver Scale ,yearling (Gilbert) C photo slide 

Coho or Silver Scale. 2-year-old (Gilbert) C photo slide 

Dog or Chum Scale, 4-year-old (Gilbert) C photo slide 

Humpback Scale, 2-year-old (Gilbert) C photo slide 

Coho or Silver Scale, 3-year-old (Gilbert) C photo slide 



EAT MORE FISH 



518 Princess May, Stranded on Island C 

550 The One That Got Away (Little boy telling fish 

got away) C colored 

545 Two-year-old Chum Salmon and Three-year-old 

Boy C 

546 Day's Catch, Little Girl Showing Father Day's 

Catch C 

547 Children Fishing from Dock (very fine) C colored 

548 Junior Fisherman, Little Boy C 

549 Man Holding Up Large Spring Salmon C 

550 Girl Holding Up Two Spring Salmon C 

551 Five Species of Salmon, Weights C 

552 Outline Showing Construction of Standard Fish 

Trap C 

553 Floating Traps C 

554 Lifting Pot Web or Spiller C 

555 Pitching Fish From Scow C 

556 Emptying the Trap Brailer C 

559 Bible Authority for Taking Fish C 

560 Tatoosh Light House, General View C 

561 Tatoosh Light House at Night, 80 min. exp C 

564 Village of Neah Bay C 

565 Surf On Sand at Neah Bay C 

566 Surf Off Cape Flattery C 

We have many others, some of which we enumerate, Indian making 
canoe, covered by four or five slides; Old Lady, age unknown; Beach 
Comber; Light House Jib, Himself, a fine picture of a very old Indian; 
Native Children at Play; Native Mother and Babe; The Basket Makers; 
Indians Landing a Whale; Indians Cutting Up and Dividing Whale; Fourth 
of July at Cannery; Men's Tug-of-War; Women's Tug-of-War; Victorious 
Women, Foot Races, Ball Games, etc. Also fine interior view of Cannery, 
Fish Dock and other fishing scenes. 

SPECIAL: — Any one or all of the above slides can be had, standard 
size in colored or plain. Prices quoted on application. Regular allowance 
made to schools and clubs, card lecture extra. 



EDUCATIONAL FEATURE PLAN 

As an educational feature and as a "Cash Raising Proposition" for 
Clubs, Ladies' Aid Societies, Domestic Science Clubs, Conventions, Charities, 
Churches, Schools, etc., our Illustrated Lecture-movies and slides, together 
with "EAT MORE FISH" is the most practical and value received yet pro- 
duced. Write about it, let us show you. 



Address: "EAT MORE FISH," 
Box 283, Seattle, U. S. A. 



EAT MORE FISH 




EAT MORE FISH 



INDEX 



A 

Artificial Propagation 6 

A. Mile of Boats 9 

B 

Buying Fish 30 

Boiling Fish, Time for 31 

Baking Fish, Time for 31 

Batter for Frying 32 

Baked Fish 33 

Boiled Fish 33 

Balls 33-34 

Boiled Cod 34 

Baked Cod 34 

Broiling Fish 34 

Batter for Oysters and Clams— 32 

Baking Powder Biscuits 52 

Blowers, S. G., & Co., Inc 20 

C 

Cannery Interior 2 

Chemical Composition of Fish — 7 

Canned Salmon 7-11 

Canned Salmon, How to Open___ 12 

Canned Fish, How to Heat 12 

Chafing Dish 28 

Canned Herring 37 

Classes of Fish 30 

Creamed Fish 33-38 

Cakes 34 

Chowder 34 

Cod Fish, Boiled, Baked, Broiled- 34 

Cod Fish Steaks 34 

Cod Fish Curried 35 

Cod Fish Shredded 35 

Clams 39-40 

Cat Fish 38 

Canning Fish at Home 42 

Cleaning and Dyeing 44 

Cough Remedy 45 

Cold Storage 44 

Candy Recipes 50-51-55, 

Chocolate Cake 5? 

D 

Drawn Butter Sauce 32 

Dj'eing, Information About 43-44 

E 

Eulachon or Smelt 24 

Egg Sauce 32 

Edible Fish, Names of 40 

F 

Farming the Seas, Story of 3 

Food Value of Fish 7-12 

Fats, Value of 8 

Fish as a Food 30 

Further Hints on Cooking 31 



Frying, etc. 30-32-33 

Frying, Batter for 32 

Fish Balls 20-33-34 

Pish Chowder 34 

Fish Cakes 34 

Fish Salad 33 

Flounder 36 

Finnan Haddie 36 

Fresh Fish 33-34 

Fruit Canning 42 

Flies, Swat 'em 45 

G 

General Information 31 

Gold Eyes 38 

Good Things to Know 43-44-45 

Gang Knives, Picture 10 

Grades and Labels 11-20 

H 

Hints on Boiling 30-31 

Hints on Frying 30 

Hollandaise Sauce 32 

Hake Steak 35 

Haddock and Haddie 36 

Halibut, Sundry Ways to Cook 

35-36-40 

Herring 36-37 

Home Canning 42 

How to Clean and Dye Clothes-43-44 

How to Open Can of Fish 12 

How to Tell if Can is Good 12 

How Uncle Sam Warns Fish Deal- 
ers 49 

Health Bread 52 

I 

Introduction 1 

Information about Canned Salmon_ll 

Information About Fish_ 41-42 

Information for Housewife 41-42-44-45 
Information, Dyeing and Cleaning 44 

K 

Kippered Herring 17 

King Salmon 1 

L 
Lake Trout 38 

Label "Standard Salmon" 20 

Labels and Grades 11-20 

M 
Miscellaneous Hints ___33-41-42-44-45 

Mackerel 37 

Mussels 39 

Meats 42 

Mussels, When Not to Use 40 

N 
Names of Edible Fish 40 



EAT MORE FISH 



63 



O 

Oily Fish 30 

Oysters 38-39 

Oyster, Dressing 32 

Omelet 29 

P 

Picture, Scow Load Fish 5 

Propagation of Salmon 6 

Protein Value 7 

Picture, Buying Fish 9 

Picture, Gang Knives 10 

Pike, Pickerel, Perch 38 

Pictures, Showing Cannery 2-53 

Panned Fish 33 

Pudding 52 

Q 
Quantity of Fruit Required for 
Canning at Home 42 

R 

Rearing Ponds 6 

Ray or Skate 36 

Rice Pudding 52 

S 

Story of the Salmon 10-11 

Special Recipes for Preparing — 12 

Special for Housewife 30-40 

Sauces of All Kinds 32 

Stuffing for Fish 32-33 

Steamed Fish 33 

Salads 17-18-33 

Salt Fish 34 

Sugarless Candy Recipes 50-51-52 

Standard Salmon 20 

Skate or Ray 36 

Shell Fish 38 

Smelt 37 

Sea Mussels 39 

Soft Soap, How to Make 44 

SWAT THAT FLY 45 

SALMON— 

A la Newberg 28 

A la Creole 28 

A la Deutcher 26 

Barbecue 28 

Boiled 33 

Baked 20-21 

Chops 13 

Cakes 27 

Cocktail 23 

Creamed 21-22-28-29 

Creamed with Peas 21 

Creamed Imperial 21 

Croquettes 22-29 

Curry 29 

Creamed Salad 26 

Chafing Dish 29 

Dressing 27-29-30 

Deviled 27 

Different Grades 11 

Egg Noodles 16 



En Casserole 26 

Egged 29 

Food Value 12 

Fritters 29 

Grades 11-12 

Hash 29 

Hollandaise Sauce 28 

How to Heat Can 12 

How to Tell If Good 12 

How to Open Can 12 

In Mould 26 

Jellied 23 

Loaf 16-19-20-26-27 

Loaf, Vienna 16 

Loaf with Cucumbers 19 

Lobsconse Salmon 17 

Noodles 16 

Omelett 29 

On Toast 23 

Pastry 17 

Patties 27-29 

Potted 27 

Pudding 16-52 

Roll 13 

Ramequins 15 

Salads 17-18-26-27-28 

Sauces 32 

Soup 30 

Sandwiches 22-23-26 

Scalloped 12-13-14-15-27-28 

Souffle 27 

Steamed 26 

Stuffing for Baked Fish 32 

Stuffed Salmon 29 

Salmon Supreme 26 

Style of Cans 11 

Turbot 12 

Timbales 15-26 

Turnover 27 

Wiggle 17 

With White Sauce 29 

T 

Two Sockeyes, Lecture Slide 55 

Terms Used in Cookery 46 

Time Table for Cooking 31-33-37 

Tomato Sauce 32 

U 

Useful Information 41 

U. S. Bureau of Fisheries 40 

U. S. Bulletins 49 

W 

Waste 8 

War Time Recipes 47-48-49 

Weights and Measures 41 

Wheat Flour and Bread 41 

SUNDRY 

List of Stereopticon Slides 58-60 



64 



EAT MORE FISH 




Food Specialties 



192 1 



Pisli Balls 
Pish Cakes 
Pish Iioaf 
Whole Clams 
Minced Clams 



Pish Cocktail 
Pish Sandwich 
Pish Chowder 
Clam Chowder 
Clam Broth 



Canned Alaska Red Salmon 
Canned Alaska Coho Salmon 
Canned Alaska Keta Salmon 
Canned Alaska King Salmon 
Canned Alaska Pink Salmon 
Alaska Herring, etc. 



d 

D 



HOW TO SERVE 
All ready to eat — Good hot or cold. 

Can be warmed up in can. fried on griddle, warmed up in oven, 
fried in butter. Any way to suit your taste, an\' l<ind of sauce. 



Delicious 



GUARANTEE 

Every precaution has been taken to have the contents absolutely good, 
sanitary conditions, personal inspection, scientific processing, etc., at all 
times. 

The "W. I. C. Brand" will be used only on "food specialties" of highest 
quality. 

The above cut shows "W. I. C. Brand" on high grade "Fish Food Spe- 
cialties" only. 

Beginning 1921 it is our purpose to use this brand on food specialties 
made by or for us. 

Every package of "W. I. C. Brand" is guaranteed to have been packed 
from good, clean raw material, in the best of sanitary conditions under per- 
sonal, individual inspection either by us or the packer who must conform 
to our formula or standard. ASK FOR W. I. C. Brand. 

Selling agencies and distribution arrangements will be established as 
fast as production will permit. 

Upon receipt of inquiry we will cheerfully give any information as to 
our products, where for sale, prices, etc. Also gladly furnish suggestions or 
special recipes for anything at our command. 



Eat More Pish 



WRITE US 




Mail Address 
Box 283 
Seattle 
U. S. A. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



REPRODUCTION OP 




014 518 692 4 



EAT MORn rioni 



FISH IS MEAT and has a HIGH FOOD VALUE. 

Analysis shows that fish meat contains as much BODY-BUILDING FOOD 
as beefsteak. 

Experiments show that fish Is as READILY DIGESTED as are other 
meats. 

You could replace all other meats with fish every day in the year without 
ill effects. There are more possibilities of increase in the meat supply 
by the fisheries than by any other one industry. The demand in the 
past has not equaled the supply. 

EAT FRESH FISH If you are near the source of fresh fish, but don't 
expect to buy at a low price fresh fish that have to be shipped by 
express for long distances on ice. Consume your locally-caught fishes 
and don't all use the same kinds. The cheapest is often as good as or 
better than the dear. 

EAT SALT FISH wherever you are. Write the Bureau of Fisheries for 
recipes for preparing salt fish for the table. If you eat meat for 
breakfast make it SALT HERRING, SALT MACKEREL, or other salt 
fish. Salt fish are good eating if you prepare them properly for the 
table. Do that. 

EAT SMOKED FISH. There is nothing better than fish prepared by this 
old-fashioned method.. Smoked herring, smoked eels, smoked BOW- 
FIN, smoked SHARK, smoked CARP. The three last mentioned are 
just being introduced to the market. Make them go! Write for 
recipes for preparing smoked fish for the table. 

Don't let Friday be the only FISH DAY. Eat more fish MORE DAYS A 
WEEK. 

Don't stand back on disagreeable NAMES or ungainly APPEARANCES. 

PREJUDICE IS AN EXPENSIVE LUXURY. A shark would not taste any 
better if called by another name; it tastes good as it is. CARP is 
good eating and nutritious. You will not find any fish on the market 
that is not fit to eat if it is in good condlition. The best test of a fresh 
fish is not its NAME but its FRESHNESS. 

LOOK OUT FOR NEW FISH! They are coming! BOWFIN, CRAYFISH, 
BURBOT, GOOSEFISH, SHARK, SKATE, SABLEFISH, GROUPER. 

PERSERVE FISH IN THE HOME. Small-pressure canners are already 
in use by thousands of people. Put up a supply of fish when you can 
get them cheap. Can the roe, too; they are especially nutritious. 

EAT FISH— CULTIVATE THE TASTE— GET THE HABIT! 

Note. — Above is reproduced from a poster of U. S. Bureau of Fisheries. 



LIBRftRY OF CONGRESS 



014 518 692 4 ^. 



\. 



Conservation Resources 



