CAMBRIDGE 
UBLIC HEALTH SERIES 



OD POISONING AND 
FOOD INFECTIONS 




Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

Microsoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/foodpoisoningfooOOsavauoft 



CAMBRIDGE PUBLIC HEALTH SERIES 

UNDER THE EDITORSHIP OF 
G. S. Graham-Smith, M.D. and J. E. Purvis, M.A. 

University Lecturer in Hygiene and University Lecturer in Chemistry 

Secretary to the Sub- Syndicate for and Physics in their application to 

Tropical Medicine Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, 

and Secretary to the State Medicine 

Syndicate 



FOOD POISONING 

AND 

FOOD INFECTIONS 



CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS 

C. F. CLAY, Manager 

LONDON : FETTER LANE, E.G. 4 

LONDON : H. K. LEWIS AND CO., Ltd., 
136 Gower Street, W.C. i 

LONDON : WILLIAM WESLEY AND SON, 

28 Essex Street, Strand, W.C. 2 
NEW YORK : G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 
BOMBAY ^ 

CALCUTTA V MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd. 
MADRAS J 

TORONTO : J. M. DENT AND SONS, Ltd. 
TOKYO : MARUZEN-KABUSHIKI-KAISHA 

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 






FOOD POISONING 

AND 

FOOD INFECTIONS 






BY 

WILLIAM of SAVAGE, "■'AW^^' 

B.Sc, M.D. (LoND.), D.P.H. 

COUNTY MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH, SOMERSET; EXAMINER IN 

STATE MEDICINE AND HYGIENE, LONDON UNIVERSITY; EXAMINER IN 

PUBLIC HEALTH AND FORENSIC MEDICINE, BRISTOL UNIVERSITY 




CAMBRIDGE 

AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS 
1920 



EDITORS' PREFACE 

TN view of the increasing importance of the study of public 
hygiene and the recognition by doctors, teachers, ad- 
ministrators and members of PubHc Health and Hygiene 
Committees alike that the salus pppuli must rest, in part at 
least, upon a scientific basis, the Syndics of the Cambridge 
University Press have decided to publish a series of volumes 
dealing with the various subjects connected with Public 
Health. 

The books included in the Series present in a useful and 
handy form the knowledge now available in many branches 
of the subject. They are written by experts, and the authors 
are occupied, or have been occupied, either in investigations 
connected with the various themes or in their application and 
administration. They include the latest scientific and prac- 
tical information offered in a manner which is not too tech- 
nical. The bibliographies contain references to the literature 
of each subject which will ensure their utility to the specialist. 

It has been the desire of the editors to arrange that the 
books should appeal to various classes of readers : and it is 
hoped that they will be useful to the medical profession at 
home and abroad, to bacteriologists and laboratory students, 
to municipal engineers and architects, to medical officers of 
health and sanitary inspectors and to teachers and adminis- 
trators. 

Many of the volumes will contain material which will be 
suggestive and instructive to members of Public Health and 
Hygiene Committees ; and it is intended that they shall seek 
to influence the large body of educated and intelligent public 
opinion interested in the problems of public health. 



AUTHOR'S PREFACE 

FEW subjects are treated in textbooks both in such a 
hackneyed and in such an inaccurate fashion as food 
poisoning and food infections. The title "ptomaine poison- 
ing" is maintained years after it has been proved that it is 
both inaccurate and misleading. Ptomaines are described 
in detail which have no bearing upon the question, organisms 
(such as B. proteus and B. coli) are accepted as the cause of 
attacks on the evidence of reports of outbreaks hoary with 
age, copied from textbook to textbook without any critical 
consideration as to how far they substantiate the claim, state- 
ments as to the distribution in nature of food poisoning 
organisms are repeated because some other textbook has 
admitted them and without any investigation as to their 
validity. 

It follows naturally that, apart from those who have made 
a special study of the matter, the information as to the 
causation and nature of food poisoning outbreaks current 
amongst the medical profession generally, and even amongst 
those (such as Medical Officers of Health) who should be 
authorities, is to a considerable extent unsound and inac- 
curate. This has a very detrimental effect upon the scientific 
progress of the subject since it leads to outbreaks being 
ascribed to causes unwarranted by the facts and to inquiries 
into sources of infection being neglected in just those direc- 
tions along which information would be most valuable. 
Anyone who has studied any considerable number of reports 
on food poisoning outbreaks will readily acquiesce in the truth 
of this statement. 

To stimulate interest in the subject, indicate where exact 
knowledge is lacking and the directions where it may be 
sought, and to lay down lines of prevention are objects I 
have had in mind in writing this book. 



viii PREFACE 

Some of the views advanced are not in accord with those 
accepted in the textbooks but during the past fifteen years 
I have devoted much time to the investigation of the com- 
plex problems discussed and no current view is rejected 
and no new one advanced without the scientific data on 
both sides being fully stated. 

The title is somewhat indefinite in scope and I have had 
to use my own judgment as to what to admit and what to 
reject as coming under it. 

The subject treated from a narrower standpoint was dealt 
with by me in a special report to the Local Government 
Board in 1913, and I have to thank the Board and the Con- 
troller of His Majesty's Stationery Office, and in particular 
Sir Arthur Newsholme and Dr MacFadden, not only for 
their permission to make extensive use of the material in 
that report but for enabling me to bring my list of British 
outbreaks more up to date by kindly placing at my disposal 
particulars of a number of cases reported subsequent to 
1912. 

WILLIAM G. SAVAGE. 

Weston-super-mare. 
October 1919. 



CONTENTS 



CHAP. PAGE 

I. Introductory and Historical . . . . i 
II. Food as a vehicle for transmitting bacterial 

DISEASES lO 

III. Foods inherently poisonous 24 

IV. Food idiosyncrasy 34 

V. The clinical and general features of outbreaks 

OF food poisoning 45 

VI. The Gaertner group of bacteria in relation to 

FOOD poisoning ....... 6i 

Addenda I — III 76 

VII. Food poisoning of unspecific bacterial origin . 94 

Addenda IV, V 123 

VIII. Certain special kinds of food poisoning . . 131 

IX. Botulism 149 

X. Sources and methods of infection in food poison- 
ing OUTBREAKS I59 

XI. Chemical poisons in food, unintentionally in- 
troduced : 
(i) Introduced mainly in connection with 

PROCESSES OF MANUFACTURE . . . 188 

(ii) Added from the action of the food upon the 

RETAINERS I95 

XII. Chemicals deliberately added to food — chemical 

PRESERVATIVES 202 

XIII. The prevention of food poisoning outbreaks . 215 

XIV. Methods of investigation of food poisoning out- 
breaks 225 

Addendum VI 238 

Index 243 



CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTORY AND HISTORICAL 

The consumption of food, apart from the question of errors 
of quantity, may be a source of ill-health in a number of 
ways, the following being the most important : 

(a) The food may be inherently poisonous. Noxious plants 
are well known, while animals, the flesh of which is poisonous, 
either always or at special times, are not uncommon. 

{b) The food may be a cause of disease because it acts as 
a vehicle for the transmission of disease-producing bodies — 
of plant origin (such as ergot), of animal origin (such as the 
animal parasites), or of bacterial origin (anthrax, tubercle 
bacillus, etc.) — ^which are introduced with the food and which 
are directly derived from diseased plants or animals. 

(c) The food may originate from healthy sources but sub- 
sequently become contaminated with bacteria pathogenic to 
man. The food may remain not visibly altered or may have 
undergone extensive decomposition changes. 

(d) The food may be prejudicial because it has become 
admixed with bodies of a chemical nature which exert a 
harmful action upon the animal organism. Examples of 
such additions are chemicals added as food preservatives 
and poisonous metals derived from food containers or acci- 
dental admixture. 

Admixture of food substitutes which irritate the alimentary 
tract to the extent of producing symptoms may possibly be 
grouped under this heading. 

(e) The food may be so treated in preparation that valuable 
and essential substances have been removed, causing the 
so-called deficiency diseases. 

(/) The food itself may be sound and uninfected with 
either harmful bacteria, parasites or chemicals and yet may 
originate illness in certain individuals owing to the existence 
of a special abnormal sensitiveness (idiosyncrasy conditions). 

This is an extensive list and using the terms food poisoning 

S. F. p. I 



2 INTRODUCTION [CH. 

and food infections in their broadest meaning all might be 
so included. The title bacterial food infections excludes con- 
sideration of the animal parasites transmitted through food. 
Also the diseases induced by the removal of essential food 
constituents are negative rather than active in their origin 
and cannot be considered to come properly within the scope 
of the present volume. These deficiency diseases, as they are 
frequently called, include beri-beri, scurvy and probably 
pellagra, and are due to the diet being insufficient in certain 
essential substances known as vitamines, which are con- 
tained in the natural foodstuffs, but which may be removed 
in the course of preparation. They will not be further 
considered. 

Common usage has given to the title of this volume a 
more restricted meaning and while this interpretation is one 
which cannot be defended as either entirely accurate or 
strictly scientific, yet it provides a convenient delimitation 
of an otherwise very scattered and far-embracing subject. 

The infections induced in man by the consumption of 
meat from animals definitely ill with bacterial infections, 
such as anthrax or tuberculosis, and in which the like disease 
is set up in the persons infected, are true examples of bacterial 
food infections, but as they are fully dealt with in general 
and special textbooks they are only given comparatively 
brief consideration. 

The cases in which the food merely acts as a vehicle for 
the transmission of the bacteria of well-known infectious 
diseases are conditions not generally understood when the 
above expressions are used although it is obviously impossible 
to set up a sharp scientific line of demarcation. A brief 
general discussion is all that is required therefore in explana- 
tion of these infections (Chapter II). 

The remaining conditions are those which are usually 
specially understood by the terms food poisoning and food 
infections, and these are treated in considerable detail in 
subsequent chapters. It will be seen that they comprise : 

1. Inherently poisonous plants and animals. 

2. Foods only poisonous because of abnormal reactions 
of the individual. 



IJ INTRODUCTION 3 

3. Bacterial food infections causing more or less acute 
symptoms of poisoning. 

4. Food poisoning cases from admixture with harmful 
chemical substances 

While the group due to admixture of chemicals is of 
great importance, the majority of the outbreaks and cases 
which are recognized as cases of food poisoning are undoubt- 
edly bacterial in nature, and it is to this branch of the subject 
therefore that attention will mainly be given. The symptoms 
caused are due to the food being infected with bacteria 
which produce toxic products, either before or after ingestion, 
to which the symptoms are due. Under this heading is in- 
cluded those cases in which the food has undergone bacterial 
changes outside the body, of the nature of putrefaction, and 
those in which the specific bacteria have produced little or 
no visible changes, but exert their most characteristic 
activities after consumption. 

Food poisoning conditions are frequently classified accord- 
ing to the vehicle of infection, those due to ordinary meat, 
shellfish, milk, cheese, ice-cream, sausages, fish, potatoes, 
etc., being separately described as if they had a separate and 
special causation. A few of these show special peculiarities 
with possibly a separate and peculiar etiology and so are 
more conveniently considered from this point of view, but 
apart from these such a classification is a most unscientific 
one and has nothing to recommend it. The vehicle of infection 
has little or nothing to do with the type of infection and the 
only scientific classification possible is one based upon the 
infecting agent. 

The extent to which individuals are prejudicially infected 
through the agency of food cannot be estimated even ap- 
proximately. The attacks may be so variable in severity, 
ranging from a trifling gastro-intestinal disturbance to 
severe symptoms dangerous to life itself and sometimes for- 
feiting it, may be so obscure and insidious in origin and so 
little anybody's business to investigate and record that it 
is quite impossible to statistically estimate their frequency. 
Most persons are attacked, at one time or another, with 
symptoms pointing with reasonable certainty to a derange- 



4 HISTORICAL ACCOUNT [CH. 

ment of the alimentary tract set up by some article of food 
eaten shortly before the illness. When these attacks involve 
a number of persons there is more likelihood of their being 
recognized as a food poisoning outbreak, but even the 
majority of these pass unnoticed in the scientific journals or 
in the daily press. 

All that can be said is that attacks of illness from specific 
contamination of the food are undoubtedly of considerable 
frequency and that even extensive outbreaks are probably 
far more prevalent than the published records of them would 
lead anyone to believe. 

Short historical account. 

Food poisoning must be as old as man himself. In the 
days of his dawning intelligence when driven by hunger or 
the delights of the eye to experiment with strange foods he 
no doubt learnt by bitter practical lessons that death and 
illness lurked in many foods and by painful experience ac- 
quired a knowledge of good and evil as it applies to food. 
In later times with more detailed knowledge as to foods 
death still lurked in the pot but it was frequently enough a 
deliberate death induced by malice, and the very widespread 
institution in ancient historical times and in the Middle 
Ages of official food tasters to king and princeling is a witness 
of the prevalence of the practice of wilful food poisoning. 
On the other hand in an age when sudden death was always 
mysterious and suspect, food was no doubt frequently con- 
sidered to be poisoned when it was not and death was due 
to other causes. Over-indulgence in food was probably far 
more frequently a cause of death than deliberate poisoning 
and an instance such as the death of Henry I from lampreys 
was more likely to be due to the surfeit of these fishes to 
which it is ascribed in the history books than to any poisonous 
qualities inherent in the lampreys, although it is a well- 
recognized fact that under certain conditions lampreys ex- 
hibit poisonous properties. 

" Death in the pot " still exists although man has catalogued 
the poisonous plants and animals, scheduled and restricted 



I] HISTORICAL ACCOUNT 5 

the sale of poisons and made gluttony unfashionable and an 
offence against taste. Now it takes other forms in large part 
due to the greed of man and his desire to acquire riches re- 
gardless of health considerations. Food is deliberately sophis- 
ticated, not in a spirit of vengeance but in one of greed or 
merely of callousness. Preservatives are sometimes necessary 
but are often added to conserve that which has become unfit 
or to keep in saleable condition for long periods what lack 
of cleanliness in preparation has imperilled. Animals are 
slaughtered '' to save their lives," and to be sold as killed meat 
fit for food, while diseased meat is washed, doctored and dis- 
guised to take its place and obtain its price with the fresh 
and pure. Strict cleanliness in the preparation of all foods 
is not enforced and frequently is impossible under many of 
the prevailing conditions, in part because knowledge does 
not illumine the business and in part because cleanliness 
costs a little more. These are the forms that "death in the 
pot " takes to-day. 

Many of the classical authors, such as Hippocrates, 
Horace and Ovid, refer to mushroom poisoning and some 
mention other poisonous foods. That food adulteration was 
practised in early times is clear from the importance given 
to it in many early enactments and the particulars mentioned 
by early writers. Wynter Blythe (Foods, their Composition 
and Analysis, 1903) quotes a number of interesting instances 
in which food was adulterated in Roman, Grecian and early 
English times. 

The early conceptions of food poisoning were purely 
chemical in nature and this without invoking bacterial action 
upon the food to produce the chemical poisons. Albert von 
Haller was apparently the first to make any scientific studies 
upon the effects of putrid materials upon animals. He found 
that the injection of watery extracts of putrefying meat into 
the veins of various animals frequently produced death, while 
Gaspard in the early part of the nineteenth century carried 
on similar experiments. 

In 1820 and 1822, Kerner published his papers upon 
poisonous sausages, ascribing the poisonous properties to a 
compound of sebasic acid and a volatile principle. We now 



6 HISTORICAL ACCOUNT [CH. 

know that these outbreaks were cases of botulism and due 
to a bacillus. 

Later conceptions of food poisoning, and particularly of 
meat poisoning, were chiefly based upon the supposed rela- 
tionship of the poisonous element to putrefactive decomposi- 
tion of the food, and very numerous investigations were 
made along this line of inquiry. 

Panum, in 1856, appears to have been the first to demon- 
strate that the poisonous quahties exhibited by putrid flesh 
were chemical in nature and not destroyed by boiling. 
Bergmann and Schmiedeberg, in 1868, obtained a highly 
toxic substance which they called "sepsin" from putrid 
yeast and from decomposing blood. After this discovery, 
other allied toxic bodies were discovered and extensively 
studied, and the whole group of basic substances with alka- 
loid characters were called ptomaines by Selmi. Selmi, how- 
ever, did not himself succeed in isolating any of the putre- 
factive alkaloids, all his experiments being made with ex- 
tracts, and Nencki, in 1876, was the first to isolate any of 
these bodies. Brieger (1882 to 1888) isolated and investigated 
a number of ptomaines. 

Cadaverine was the first putrefactive alkaloid prepared by 
synthetic methods. This was done by Ladenburg in 1883, 
who determined its formula as pentamethylenediamine. 
Vaughan played an important part in the development of 
this side of the subject, and in 1884 isolated from cheese, 
which had caused poisonous symptoms, the body tyro- 
toxicon, a substance closely allied to the ptomaines. 

The ptomaines, being bodies highly toxic to animals (when 
injected) and being obtained from putrefying meat, were at 
one time held to supply the cause and explanation of most, 
if not of all, cases of food poisoning and illness, and these 
outbreaks became fairly generally known, especially in this 
country, as cases of ptomaine poisoning. Indeed, at the 
present time, not only in popular estimation, but even 
amongst medical men and in scientific textbooks, this term 
is still largely retained, although, as will be shown later, 
there is no justification for its continued use. 

It will be explained in Chapter VII that ptomaines differ 



I] HISTORICAL ACCOUNT 7 

essentially from toxins in that the former are non-specific, 
while the latter are specific in that each is an intimate 
product of the bacterium which produces it. 

The great strides now being made in Biological Chemistry 
have yielded much information as to the composition of the 
protein molecule and the different substances which result 
from its decomposition, and also as to how far these products 
are harmful and a possible cause of food poisoning. 

While the ptomaine hypothesis largely held the field as 
the correct explanation of these outbreaks, another (a bac- 
teriological) conception was gradually being evolved, the two 
hypotheses developing concurrently and being to some extent 
complementary to one another. 

Bollinger, in 1876, in an important paper read at Dussel- 
dorf , drew attention to the great importance of meat poison- 
ing and to the fact that many outbreaks were associated 
with pyaemic and septicaemic conditions of the animals from 
which the food was obtained. He pointed out that the toxins 
of these diseases were not destroyed by cooking. 

In a later paper, in 1880, Bollinger collected the literature 
of the subject and was able to emphasise further the rela- 
tionship between human food poisoning outbreaks and septic, 
pyaemic and gastro-intestinal conditions in the animals whose 
flesh was consumed. The bacteriological proof of this rela- 
tionship was not however forthcoming for a number of years. 

Amongst the first bacteriological investigations on the sub- 
ject were those of Klein, in 1880 for the Local Government 
Board, into the outbreak of food poisoning at Welbeck 
(Notts), due to eating infected ham. No definite proof was 
however adduced that the bacteria isolated had caused the 
disease. 

The first important landmark in the bacteriological inves- 
tigation of food poisoning outbreaks was the isolation by 
Gaertner in 1888 of Bacillus enteritidis from a meat poisoning 
outbreak at Frankenhausen. The bacillus was isolated both 
from the fatal case and from the organs of the cow, killed 
on account of enteritis, the consumption of whose meat 
caused the outbreak. 

Since that date this bacillus, or closely allied forms, have 



8 HISTORICAL ACCOUNT [CH. 

been isolated from a very large number of outbreaks both in 
this country and abroad, and the etiological relationship has 
been firmly established. Indeed it is hardly too definite a 
statement to make that food poisoning of bacterial origin is 
very largely Gaertner group food poisoning and infection, 
and only in comparatively few cases are other bacilli associ- 
ated etiologically. 

The bacteriology of food poisoning also owes much to Van 
Ermengem. He investigated a number of outbreaks due to 
B. enteritidis and allied bacilli, while in particular, in 1896, he 
isolated and studied B. hotulinus, the cause of an important 
group of food poisoning outbreaks (botulismus or sausage- 
poisoning), which were at one time especially numerous in 
Wurtemburg and other parts of South Germany. This form 
of food poisoning is unknown, or at least unrecognized, in this 
country. Although cases were reported in 1918 there was 
no real evidence that they were cases of botulism. 

We owe an important further advance in the bacterio- 
logical study of food infections to Durham who demonstrated 
in 1898 that by the use of agglutination tests the bacilli 
isolated from food poisoning outbreaks, hitherto all indis- 
tinguishable, could be separated into at least two distinct 
groups. He also drew attention to the diagnostic value of the 
examination of the sera of patients suffering from food 
poisoning. 

Independently, and nearly at the same time, De Nobele 
in Belgium came to similar conclusions. 

On the epidemiological side this subject has received much 
attention from the Local Government Board. A very im- 
portant summary of the then known etiological facts in 
relation to food poisoning was written in 1890 by Ballard 
{Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1890, 
p. 189), while an extended report on this subject, written by 
the writer, was issued in 19 13 by the Local Government 
Board. 

During the last twelve years or so a fresh impetus has been 
given to the subject and much additional light has been 
thrown upon it by the careful investigations which have been 
made as to the distribution of B. enteritidis and other bacilli 



l] HISTORICAL ACCOUNT 9 

of the Gaertner group in nature and their relationship to 
different diseases in man and animals. 

Owing to the greater attention which the subject has 
received, especially during recent years, the number of re- 
corded outbreaks of food poisoning is now considerable. 
Ostertag, in 1902, was able to collect records of eighty-five 
epidemics in the period 1880-1900, mostly from German 
sources, while the writer in the above-mentioned report was 
able to give an account of seventy-nine outbreaks in Great 
Britain and Ireland alone. 



CHAPTER II 

FOOD AS A VEHICLE FOR TRANSMITTING 
BACTERIAL DISEASES 

The subject of parasitic disease, apart from bacteria, is out- 
side the scope of this volume and the present chapter is re- 
stricted to bacterial diseases. It deals on the one hand with 
the diseases of the domestic animals which are also harmful 
to man through their flesh or milk, and on the other with 
the general question of food acting as a vehicle for the trans- 
mission of infectious disease. Food poisoning outbreaks 
from specific bacteria or from putrefactive changes generally 
are dealt with in separate chapters. 



Bacterial diseases of animals which may be trans- 
mitted to man by their flesh or milk. 

The domestic animals, like man, suffer from many bacterial 
diseases. Some of these are peculiar to the lower animals 
and are not shared with man while others are common to 
both. As regards these diseases it does not follow that they 
are conveyed through food to man because they are common 
to both man and animals. Theoretically they may be, but 
probably few are so transmitted, owing to considerations 
which are dealt with later on. 

Edelmann's Meat Hygiene Textbook (Mohler and Eichhorn's 
translation, 1916) gives the following list of infectious dis- 
eases of animals used for food transmissible to man: tuber- 
culosis, para-tuberculosis (Johne's disease), pseudo-tubercu- 
losis, actinomycosis, botryomycosis, anthrax, rabies, gland- 
ers, foot and mouth disease, variola, tetanus, malignant 
oedema, septicaemia, pyaemia and putrid intoxication. To 
this series must be added a few diseases such as Malta fever 
and some varieties of mastitis (garget) conveyed by milk. 



CH. II] ANIMAL DISEASES II 

The list is of formidable length but it is probably extremely 
rare if at all, for most of them, that these conditions are 
conveyed to man through eating infected meat and but few 
more from drinking infected milk. 

Of these diseases tuberculosis is by far the most important 
and widespread, and tuberculous meat to a small degree and 
tuberculous milk to a considerable extent are important 
factors in keeping up the prevalence of these diseases, 
particularly in children. The bovine type of tubercle bacillus 
differs in certain characters from the human type but un- 
fortunately possesses considerable virulence for man. The 
actual proportion of tuberculosis in man of bovine origin 
probably varies widely in different localities and is influenced 
by the habits of the inhabitants as regards the consumption 
of raw milk, etc., but very roughly it may be said that about 
6 to 7 per cer\t. of deaths from tuberculosis are from bovine 
sources, nearly all being derived from tuberculous milk. 

Anthrax, theoretically, may be spread from the milk or 
meat of infected animals, but it is probably very rarely so 
transmitted, the disease being acute in its course and the 
animal markedly ill and not likely to be sold for food. In- 
fection from animals is usually by direct inoculation through 
the skin or by inhalation of the anthrax spores from infected 
wool or hair. 

Foot and mouth disease may be transmitted to man 
through the milk of infected cows, but there is no evidence 
of its transmission by meat. The disease in man is of rare 
occurrence and usually is caused by direct inoculation. 

Actinomycosis occurs fairly extensively in cattle, and 
recently Griffith (1915) has reported the presence of the 
specific organism in a large number of ox tongues from 
Argentina. The relationship between the human and bovine 
types has not been fully elucidated, but there appears to be 
no satisfactory evidence that this disease may be acquired 
by the ingestion of the milk or meat of infected animals. 
Our knowledge, however, requires extension particularly 
since this condition not very infrequently affects the udders 
of cows. 

Botryomycosis is a not very accurately defined condition, 



12 ANIMAL DISEASES [CH. 

probably the result of infection with more than one species 
of microorganism. The writer is unaware of any evidence of 
cases of this disease transmitted to man by food. 

For other diseases such as tetanus, glanders, rabies and 
variola (cow-pox and sheep-pox) which are met with in man 
the path of infection appears to be always, or almost always, 
by direct inoculation through the skin and not by way of 
the digestive tract. 

The other diseases mentioned — malignant oedema, septic- 
aemia, pyaemia and putrid intoxication — stand in a rather 
separate category, since they are all conditions associated 
with rapid decomposition of the meat, and their liability to 
convey disease is less a question of the transmission of the 
bacterium responsible for the disease than of the secondary 
changes which the meat may undergo, either of the nature 
of putrefaction or of specific infection with one, of the recog- 
nized food poisoning bacteria. Such conditions are therefore 
very wisely included amongst those which make meat unfit 
for food and cause its total condemnation. 

The condition known as braxy, a disease of sheep fairly 
common in Scotland, possibly should be included in the 
same category. Food poisoning outbreaks in connection 
with sheep are very rare, so the following in Scotland is an 
interesting illustration recorded by Bryson (1907). In 
September, 1907, the weather being warm and sultry, a 
ploughman and other servants ate a meal consisting of broth 
and mutton. The latter was derived from a sheep, which four 
days earlier was found to be suffering from braxy and was 
killed in consequence. All the servants were attacked, but 
all except the ploughman quickly recovered after vomiting. 
In his case the symptoms came on 2-3 hours after the con- 
sumption of the food, being the usual ones of abdominal pain, 
vomiting, cramps in the extremities, and foul evacuations. 
He also suffered from bradycardia. The report is not very 
definite but apparently there was no evidence of obtrusive 
decomposition of the meat. The report throws no light on 
the real cause of the food poisoning, but no doubt the con- 
dition of the animal predisposed the meat to infection with 
Gaertner or other bacilH, although of course the condition in 



IlJ ANIMAL DISEASES I3 

the sheep may have been due to infection with these bacilH. 
It can hardly be accepted that the condition of braxy was 
the cause of the outbreak. 

In addition to the above-mentioned diseases there are two 
conditions spread by milk but not by meat. One is Malta 
fever, the specific organism of which, Micrococcus melitensis, 
is frequently found in goat's milk in Malta and other affected 
places, goat's milk being a very common vehicle for the 
transmission of the disease. This disease may also affect 
cows and be spread by cow's milk, but the writer has been 
unable to trace specific instances. The other condition is 
mastitis in cows, an inflammatory disease due to various 
organisms, some of which are pathogenic to man and which 
are capable, when transmitted by milk, of causing wide- 
spread outbreaks of sore throat and other septic conditions 
in man. 

(For an account of this condition and also of outbreaks 
caused see the author's book. Milk and the Public Health, 
1912, pp. 91-100 and 105-111.) 

It will be obvious from the above remarks that, apart 
from a few diseases transmitted by milk, tuberculosis, dis- 
eases caused by bacilli of the Gaertner group and possibly 
local and general septic conditions, diseases of animals are 
not commonly transmitted to man through flesh derived 
from animals suffering from these complaints. Many com- 
mon animal diseases which have not been mentioned, such 
as swine erysipelas, swine plague, blackleg, cattle pleuro- 
pneumonia, rinderpest, etc., are not, so far as is known, 
transmissible to man. 

Food as a passive vehicle for the transmission of 
infectious disease. 

The extent to which food acts as a passive vehicle for the 
transmission of infectious diseases depends upon a number 
of different factors, of which the most important are the 
nature of the food, the opportunities for infection and the 
degree to which sterilization or partial sterilization is practised 
before consumption. 

Meat in its various forms and milk furnish bacteria with 



14 DISEASE TRANSMISSION BY FOOD [CH. 

abundant nutriment and are on this account particularly- 
liable to act as vehicles, since the element of dosage enters 
to a considerable extent into the question of infection. 
When these foods are infected with pathogenic bacilli the 
latter are likely to multiply, become very abundant and be 
distributed over or through a good part of the food. Other 
foods, such as bread or cereals, are much less likely to trans- 
mit infection, as even if specifically contaminated little or no 
multiplication of such bacteria will take place. Vegetables 
occupy an intermediate position in this connection, but 
some such as watercress, which are eaten raw, are liable to 
carry infection. 

Opportunities for infection vary greatly according to the 
foodstuff and the amount and kind of handling before being 
eaten. Certain foods, for example, are obtained from sources 
which are liable to be contaminated with sewage. Oysters, 
cockles and mussels, amongst shell fish, and watercress may 
all be contaminated from such material and typhoid fever 
has frequently been spread in this way. For other foods the 
chief danger lies in contamination with pathogenic bacteria 
during their preparation for sale. Meat, for instance, is 
liable to be splashed with the excreta of other animals or to 
be contaminated by dirty hands and instruments. For other 
foods the risk of their conveying disease is largely one of 
dirty and careless handling, and if the food handlers suffer 
from an infectious disease, or are carriers of the bacilli of 
such diseases, widespread infection may result. Milk and 
milk-containing foods, such as ice-cream, are liable to convey 
disease, either from diseased animals, carelessness in pre- 
paration or neglect in distribution. 

The degree to which food is sterilized before consumption is 
of great importance as regards its serving as a vehicle of infec- 
tion. Foods, such as oysters, mussels and ice-cream, which 
are eaten raw, have over and over again been convicted of 
spreading outbreaks of acute infectious disease. Other foods 
eaten raw, such as watercress and other vegetables, are only 
less liable because their opportunities to become infected are 
so much less. Others again, such as cockles and fried fish, 
which ^receive some cooking, but often of an ineffective 



Il] DISEASE TRANSMISSION BY FOOD 15 

character, also may serve to spread infectious disease. 
When cooked food is found to be the vehicle of spread 
it almost invariably is so because the cooking has been 
inadequate to destroy pathogenic bacteria or more com- 
monly because infection results after cooking and before 
consumption. 

It may be mentioned that infection of food with patho- 
genic bacteria after cooking is more dangerous than if no 
heating had taken place. Many bacteria are mutually inimi- 
cal and the hardier saprophytic types frequently serve a 
useful function by making the conditions of viability and 
growth difficult for the pathogenic types. When the former 
are destroyed by cooking this restraining influence is re- 
moved and the multiplication of any pathogenic bacteria 
which may gain access is likely to continue unrestrained. 
This fact constitutes one of the dangers of partially or 
wholly sterilized foods, such as brawn or pasteurized milk. 

Cooking to be efficient must be sufficient to kill any 
pathogenic bacteria which may be present in any part of the 
food. It involves therefore two points: the actual tem- 
perature reached and the degree or rate of heat penetration. 
Meat is of particular importance in connection with food 
poisoning outbreaks so that some particulars of temperatures 
reached in cooking may be of interest. 

Temperatures reached in cooking food. 

A considerable number of the experiments upon this 
point have been carried out in Germany in connection with 
the problem of the destruction of trichinae in flesh. Kiichen- 
meister with fairly large pieces of meat cooked in the ordinary 
way obtained the following average results, reached through- 
out the whole piece: broiled flesh 60° C, boiled beef 87*5° C, 
grilled beefsteak 56-57° C, roast pork (middle of joint) 65° C. 
He found that large joints required boiling for several hours 
for the interior to reach a temperature of 77-80° C. Meat is 
a poor conductor of heat. Perroncito carried out a number 
of experiments of which the following may be mentioned. 
The centre of a piece of beef (8 x 10 cm.) placed and kept 
in boiling water was only 47° C. after twenty and only 



l6 COOKED FOOD [CH. 

68-70° C. after thirty-five minutes. A ham of about six 
kilos weight was placed in cold water which was raised to 
boiling point. The water boiled when the interior of the ham 
was 25° C, after thirty-five minutes it was 35° to 40° C, 
and after two hours the temperatures in different parts of 
the interior were 46°, 55°, 58°, 62°, 64° and 67° C. A ham of 
about eight kilos treated in the same way only showed an 
interior temperature of 44-5° C. after 2 J hours, while after 
3 1 hours the temperatures varied from 62-84° C. in different 
parts. 

Rupprecht found that boiling for forty-five minutes, as 
practised in Saxony, did not produce a higher temperature 
than 75° C, and this only in thin pieces of meat. He found 
that the interior temperature of a rapidly roasted sausage 
was only 287° C. Wolffhiigel and Hueppe found that it was 
necessary to prolong the cooking of a leg of veal for 3I hours 
at 101° C. for the temperature of the deep parts to reach 
71-89° C. In another experiment a smoked ham of 4-5 kilog. 
weight (about 10 lbs.), 36 cm. long, 22 cm. wide and 10 cm. 
thick, was boiled in a cooking vessel in salt water for four 
hours at a maximum temperature of 102° C. The thermo- 
meter indicated temperatures of 75°, 77° and 78° C. in the 
centre of the meat. 

Petri also tested the penetration of heat into large pieces 
of meat and found that even after 3I hours' cooking the 
temperature of the interior may be only 84° C. or less. 

These experiments demonstrate the fact that meat is a 
poor conductor of heat and that the temperatures reached 
by the interior of meat subjected to fairly complete cooking 
may be far below the temperature necessary to kill harmful 
bacteria. It will be shown later on that a large proportion 
of food poisoning outbreaks are associated with prepared 
foods, such as meat-pies, brawn, canned meat and the like, 
and it is of importance to note that the temperatures reached 
in the cooking of these articles may be quite insufficient to 
sterilize the food or even to kill such pathogenic bacteria as 
B. typhosus, B. paratyphosiis B or the food poisoning bacilli, 
which are destroyed at comparatively low temperatures. A 
few examples may be mentioned. 



n] 



COOKED FOOD 



17 



In connection with the Derby food poisoning outbreak, 
Delepine and Howarth carried out some experiments upon 
the temperature reached in baking meat pies. They noted: 

{a) The temperature of the centre of a pie said to be 
underbaked, but having all the external appearances of 
being well baked, may not exceed 47*2° C. 

(b) The temperature of the centre of a pie obviously over- 
baked, and acknowledged to be so, had not reached beyond 
86-6° C. 

(c) There was a difference of several degrees between the 
temperature of various pies. 

As Delepine points out, a batch of pies prepared in a hurry 
might be so cooked that bacteria might continue to grow in 
their centre during the greater part of their stay in the oven, 
and the bacteria would certainly not be killed. 

The experiments of Beveridge and Fawcus (1908) upon 
the penetration of heat into the substance of meat in tins are 
of considerable interest. 

They found that when a tin was simply boiled in water, 
the temperature of the centre of the meat did not reach 
100° C. even at the end of five hours. 

With higher temperatures the following results were re- 
corded : 







Time taken by Central 




Outside 
Temperature 


Size of Tin 


Thermometer to 


Number of 
Experiments 










Reach ioo° C. 


Reach 105° C. 




107° c. 


I lb. 


58 min. 


80 min. 


Average of 5 


107° c. 


2 lbs. 


95 ., 


123 „ 


5 


120° c. 


I lb. 


22 „ 


27-4.. 


5 


120° c. 


2 lbs. 


28 „ 


36-2 „ 


5 


130° c. 


2 lbs. 


17 .. 


22 ., 


2 



With the ordinary large 6 lb. tins the rate and time of 
heat penetration would be much longer. 

These experiments illustrate the ease with which the toxins 
of Gaertner group bacilli may escape destruction in tins of 
meat insufficiently heated. 

It is not only meat foods which may spread infection and 
which may fail to be sterilized by cooking. Sawyer (1914), 
for example, records an interesting experiment with spaghetti. 



S, F. P. 



l8 DISEASE TRANSMISSION BY MILK [CH. 

a substance which when made by a certain typhoid carrier 
caused an epidemic of typhoid fever involving ninety-three 
persons who consumed this food. Laboratory experiments 
showed that Spanish spaghetti artificially infected with 
typhoid bacilli and made exactly as the carrier made it and 
cooked in a hot air sterilizer until the surface was dark 
brown and it appeared overcooked, failed to be sterilized 
and thermometer readings showed that the interior did not 
reach even a pasteurizing temperature. Cultures from the 
surface yielded no typhoid bacilli and only a few half-an-inch 
below the surface, but cultures from a depth of two-and-a- 
half inches showed abundant colonies of this organism. The 
cooking of this food in this outbreak merely served to incu- 
bate and multiply the bacilli. 

Milk as a vehicle of spread. 

As regards different foods milk stands on a rather separate 
footing and merits individual mention. Certain considera- 
tions make it especially liable to convey infection. 

(a) It is commonly consumed raw or with inadequate 
cooking. 

{b) It is a particularly suitable nutrient medium for bac- 
teria, so that those which gain access tend to multiply 
enormously, while milk being liquid they diffuse through the 
whole amount. 

(c) It is largely a food for children who are especially 
susceptible to infectious diseases. 

{d) It is a food which is extensively handled, thus giving 
abundant opportunities for infection, while the prevailing 
conditions under which it is collected and distributed are 
preeminently unsatisfactory. 

{e) It is derived from an animal which may herself be 
diseased and in that way supply milk already infected with 
pathogenic bacteria. 

In view of these facts it is not surprising that outbreaks 
of disease spread by milk are frequent and widespread. The 
chief diseases so spread are tuberculosis, diphtheria, scarlet 
fever, typhoid fever, para-typhoid fever, sore throat, diar- 
rhoea and gastro-enteritis, food poisoning. Cholera, Malta 



IlJ INFECTIOUS DISEASES 19 

fever, dysentery and other diseases not common in this 
country may also be transmitted by milk. 

Tuberculosis, sore throat outbreaks and Malta fever may 
be derived from a diseased animal but all the others, and 
these conditions sometimes, are nearly always spread by 
specific contamination of the milk from human sources. 
Such infection may be direct or indirect. In the former 
method the milk handler is either an actual sufferer from the 
infectious disease or a carrier of the specific organism. In 
the latter the source of infection may be from infected 
clothing or conveyed by infected water, dust, flies, etc. 

The infectious diseases spread by food. 

Apart from milk, foods do not usually act as vehicles of 
transmission for many diseases and in this country they are 
chiefly typhoid and para-typhoid fevers, tuberculosis, out- 
breaks of food poisoning and possible epidemic diarrhoea. 
Other important conditions so spread, but rare in this 
country, are cholera and dysentery. 

Diphtheria outbreaks spread by food other than milk, or 
milk products, are almost unknown, but Sobernheim and 
Nagel (19 18) have recently recorded an outbreak of eighty- 
one cases in a Berlin garrison in which the vehicle of infection 
was food infected from diphtheria cases or carriers. The 
epidemiological facts definitely implicated the food from 
the central kitchen as the vehicle, but the exact article of 
food which was specifically infected could not be determined, 
but it was probably a herring salad. 

Typhoid fever is the most important condition so spread 
and may be taken as an illustration. This disease is liable 
to be transmitted in this way because, as is well known, a 
proportion of recovered cases harbour the bacilli in their 
bodies for long periods, not infrequently extending to many 
years, excreting the bacilli intermittently in their urine and 
faeces. If such persons are employed to handle food they may 
readily infect it and cause outbreaks of typhoid fever. Such 
outbreaks have been most commonly recognized in institu- 
tions (probably, however, only from the better methods 
employed to detect them) and the track of the carrier from 

2 — 2 



20 INFECTIOUS DISEASES [CH. 

one institution to another can be traced by the crops of 
cases they infect. Outbreaks of this sort are not usually 
explosive, but generally creeping in character, since the op- 
portunities to infect the food are intermittent and subject to 
many checks, while the chances of survival of the bacilli are 
sometimes precarious, at others favourable. 

Milk is probably the commonest food to be infected in this 
way, but many other foods, such as meat, potatoes, bread, 
have been suspected or proved to be the vehicle of distribu- 
tion. The career of the famous "Typhoid Mary" may be 
given as a good illustration of a chronic typhoid carrier acting 
as a food handler. She was a cook and was responsible for no 
less than twenty-six cases in seven different families. The 
final outbreak which led to the recognition of her baneful 
influence was in 1907 when two cases of typhoid fever oc- 
curred in the family where she served as cook and which 
took place two months after her arrival. Gaps in her history 
could not be traced but at least the following cases resulted 
in places where she was a cook: one case in 1901, one case in 
a second family in 1901, nine cases in another family in 
1902, four in another in 1904, six cases in one family in the 
summer of 1906, and one in another family in the autumn 
of the same year. 

Another interesting example reported by Niven in 1908 is 
Mrs W., who kept lodgers and did her own housework. No 
less than seven lodgers at different times between 1898 and 
1908 contracted typhoid fever, while this woman in No- 
vember, 1908, was found to have typhoid bacilli in both 
faeces and urine. 

A number of other illustrations are given by Ledingham 
in his work on typhoid fever carriers. 

Explosive outbreaks may be spread by infection of the 
food by a carrier, as in the outbreak mentioned above when 
ninety-three persons contracted typhoid fever from spaghetti, 
but are more frequently associated with contamination of 
the food with typhoid bacilli from sewage pollution. Many 
typhoid fever outbreaks from oysters have been caused in 
this way. 

As a typical example may be instanced the outbreaks of 



U] FOOD TRANSMITTED DISEASES 21 

typhoid fever at Winchester and Southampton in 1902, 
following the Mayoral banquets on November loth in these 
towns (Bulstrode, 1903). At the Winchester banquet there 
were 134 guests of whom nine contracted enteric fever and 
also one waiter. At the Southampton banquet there were 
132 guests with ten cases and also one attendant. In both 
cases a number of the guests (forty-four at Southampton) 
suffered from gastro-enteritis of varying degrees of severity. 
By careful inquiry Bulstrode showed that the only item 
taken at the banquets capable of explaining the outbreaks 
were the oysters. Both lots of oysters were from the same 
source and were consumed in the two towns on the same 
day, while a number of other cases in other towns were shown 
to be due to oysters obtained from the same source and 
also consumed the same day. The oysters were derived from 
beds at Emsworth, which seven years previously Bulstrode 
had reported as liable to gross pollution. The oysters were 
laid down within a few yards of the main sewer of the town, 
one in which cases of typhoid fever had been unduly preva- 
lent for years and in which several cases occurred shortly 
before the outbreak. 

Genefal conclusions. 

From the above considerations it is possible to draw some 
broad general conclusions in regard to the transmission of 
infectious diseases by food. 

I. In view of the many sources of possible infection of 
foodstuffs with pathogenic bacteria, there is always some 
risk, and as regards certain foods considerable risk, of their 
acting as vehicles for the transmission of infectious disease, 
if they are consumed in the raw state. Incomplete as is the 
protection afforded by cooking it is yet very considerable, 
and to realize this we have only to contrast the numerous 
outbreaks spread by milk and shell fish with the rarity of 
those associated with food habitually eaten cooked. It fol- 
lows that foods eaten raw require special supervision in their 
preparation and transmission. In several places, such as 
Southend, the installation of efficient methods of cooking 



22 FOOD TRANSMITTED DISEASES [CH. 

cockles, replacing the previous haphazard and inadequate 
procedure, has resulted in a marked fall in the number of 
cases of typhoid fever. 

2. Special supervision is required over those whose busi- 
ness it is to handle food. A chronic typhoid carrier is for the 
most part only a public menace when a food handler. This 
aspect of the subject has received very inadequate legal 
consideration in this country and there are no enactments 
which give effective powers to deal with this class of persons. 
The following may be mentioned in illustration. The writer 
recently investigated a small outbreak of six cases of typhoid 
fever in a small town, all within a short period of one another, 
and all with a common milk supply. Suspicion pointed to 
the milk purveyor himself, especially as a history of an 
obscure illness some years earlier was forthcoming. A sample 
of his blood, secured with difficulty, showed a positive 
Widal reaction. After much persuasion a sample of his 
excreta was obtained, but when this was negative no efforts 
were successful in obtaining a second. No further cases 
developed and the matter had to be left (particularly in view 
of the insufficiency of proof) as there were no legal powers 
to prevent this man continuing to milk his cows and dis- 
tribute his milk. 

The Department of Health of New York City in 1915 
inaugurated detailed medical and pathological examinations 
of the cooks and waiters in a number of the hotels and 
restaurants of the city. A considerable number of typhoid 
carriers and infectious cases of syphilis, tuberculosis, etc., 
were detected in this way. 

3. General cleanliness in the manufacture, preparation 
for sale, and distribution of food is of the utmost importance. 
Strict cleanliness and care in preparation will obviate many 
of the dangers of food acting as a vehicle of infection, while 
these precautions are even more necessary for foods which 
are liable to imperfect cooking or some degree of heating 
and are not consumed for some time. Ice-cream, pasteurized 
milk and some forms of made food come under this category. 
This aspect of the question is dealt with more in detail 
in Chapter XIII. 



II] FOOD TRANSMITTED DISEASES 23 



REFERENCES. 

Beveridge and Fawcus (1908). Journ. Royal Army Med. Corps, x. 

315- 

Bryson (1907). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 1710. 

Bulstrode (1903). Report to L. G. B. on oyster-borne enteric fever at 

Winchester and Southampton. 
Edelmann (1916). Meat Hygiene Textbook (Mohler and Eichhorn's 

translation) . 
Griffith (1915). Report to L. G. B. Food Reports, No. 23. 
Howarth and Delepine (1902). Special Report on Outbreak of Food 

Poisoning in Derby. 
Savage (1912). Milk and the Public Health (Macmillan and Co.), 

pp. 91, 105, etc. 
Sawyer (1914)- Journ. Am. Med. Assoc, lxiii. 1537. 
Sobemheim and Nagel (191 8). Berl. klin. Woch. lv. 761. 



CHAPTER III 

FOODS INHERENTLY POISONOUS 

The rest of the book deals with foods which in themselves 
are sound and harmless, but which become poisonous or 
infective on account of secondary changes, either through 
the food acting as a nidus for bacterial growth or through 
contamination with chemical poisons. The present chapter 
deals with foods, both animal and vegetable, which in their 
natural state are poisonous to man. 

Animals poisonous when eaten. 

There are a good many animals which produce poisonous 
secretions as part of their defence against a hostile world, or 
utihze them as a means of killing their food, but such animals 
do not properly come under the above heading. Well-known 
examples are the poisonous snakes, certain fish, such as the 
sea-weaver, members of the scorpion family and a consider- 
able number of insects. Their action is produced by injection 
into the tissues and such poisons are entirely or very largely 
inoperative when introduced by the mouth. These animals 
can be eaten without risk of poisoning. 

The number of animals the flesh of which is inherently 
poisonous when eaten is small and, as will be shown later 
on, only a small proportion are poisonous at all seasons. In 
some cases — particularly as regards shellfish and some fish 
— the food is said to be poisonous at some seasons and under 
certain conditions, but these cases do not really come into 
the above category since they are not inherently harmful, 
but become poisonous on account of bacterial changes which 
they undergo associated with their environment. They are, 
therefore, dealt with in other chapters. Indeed the only 
animals of importance which remain are certain species of 
fishes with possibly a few poisonous shell fish. 

Poisonous fish. Many fish, especially those native to 
tropical waters, develop poisonous bodies of the nature of 



CH. Ill] POISONOUS FISH 25 

toxins very rapidly after death, so that their consumption, 
even a few hours after death, gives rise to symptoms of 
poisoning, although such fish are quite harmless and whole- 
some if consumed perfectly fresh. Apart from these there 
are certain fish whose bodies, even when alive, contain toxic 
substances of great potency. 

Of these fish by far the most important is the family of 
the Tetrodontidae. This family — the puffers, balloon fish, 
globe fish — comprises a number of poisonous species, in- 
cluding the well-known Japanese Fugu, which has a very 
large number of deaths to its credit. Faust (1906), for ex- 
ample, says that in the years 1885 to 1892 there were re- 
corded in Japan 933 cases of poisoning from this cause, 
681 (73 per cent.) of which were fatal. This family of 
fishes is widely distributed along the coasts of Japan, China, 
East Indies and Africa. 

Poisoning from these fishes is very acute with rapid onset 
of symptoms. Savtschenko (1886) divides the cases into two 
groups, the choleriform and the gastro-intestinal. In the 
former the whole duration may be only from ten to twenty 
minutes to a few hours with very rapid onset of abdominal 
pains, great distress, prostration, collapse, diarrhoea, vomit- 
ing, cramps in the limbs, with death from respiratory or 
cardiac paralysis. The symptoms in the gastro-intestinal 
type approximate to those met with in ordinary food poison- 
ing outbreaks. 

The nature and distribution of the poison has been care- 
fully studied by Takahashi and Inoko (1890), Miura and 
Takesaki (1890), Tahara (1890, 191 1), and others. 

These investigators found that the poison is mainly or 
entirely contained in the ripe ovaries (roe), alcoholic extracts 
from the other organs giving rise to no symptoms in rabbits. 
Tahara isolated from the ovaries two poisonous bases but 
in a later paper (19 11) isolated tetrodotoxin from the roe as 
probably the only poisonous substance. He obtained it in 
the form of a white very hygroscopic powder readily soluble 
in water and with a lethal dose equal to about four mgrm. 
per one kilogrm. of body weight. It is neither an alkaloid 
nor a protein. 



26 POISONOUS FISH [CH. 

The concentration of the poison in the reproductive 
organs explains the facts mentioned by earher observers, for 
example, as recorded by Giinther (1880), that "the poisonous 
properties of these fishes vary much as regards intensity, 
only certain individuals of a species, or individuals from a 
certain locality, or caught at a certain time of the year being 
dangerous/' 

Giinther mentions a number of other poisonous fishes in- 
cluding some varieties of herring {Clupea thrissa, Cliipea 
venenosa), tunny fish, file fishes, etc., while he quotes Poey 
as enumerating not less than seventy-two different kinds 
from Cuba. 

According to Schmidt a number of members of the sturgeon 
tribe are poisonous, the poison being confined to certain 
parts of the fish. 

The barbel {Barbus fluviatilis) has been particularly 
credited by older writers with causing poisonous symptoms 
(barb-cholera). The roe appears to be the only part which is 
poisonous. Hesse in 1835 carried out over no experiments 
upon men with roes from barbel. In sixty-seven no symp- 
toms were caused, while in forty-three some illness ensued, 
but this was mostly confined to abdominal pain or diarrhoea 
and in only two were cholera-like symptoms produced. No 
fatal cases have ever been reported. 

Jordan states that the flesh of the Greenland shark 
possesses poisonous qualities for dogs and produces a kind 
of intoxication in these animals. 

While a number of European fish are reputed to be 
poisonous at certain seasons of the year (particularly as re- 
gards certain parts of the fish), such as the barbel, sturgeon, 
carp, bream and one variety of perch {Perca venosa), it re- 
mains true generally that these poisonous fish are chiefly 
found in tropical waters. Very little accurate scientific 
work appears to have been done upon the exact cause of 
the poisoning properties of these fishes. The older writers 
lay stress not merely upon the fact that certain parts only 
are sometimes poisonous (chiefly the roe), but trace a rela- 
tionship to the kind of food consumed. Thus Giinther states 
that in the West Indies it has been ascertained that all the 



ni] POISONOUS PLANTS 27 

fishes living and feeding on certain coral banks are poisonous 
and suggests that they acquire this noxious quality from 
their food which consists of corals, mollusks and Crustacea. 
The poisonous herrings are said to be toxic only when they 
have been feeding on certain special kinds of food. Mitchell 
(1900) states that in 1842 all the members of a family in 
Toulouse were poisoned by eating a dish of snails collected 
from a poisonous shrub [Cariaria myrtifolia). 

More exact scientific investigation is required upon all 
these matters. 

Poisonous plants and fungi. 

The members of the vegetable kingdom which are poisonous 
and give rise to illness when eaten may be divided into three 
groups : those belonging to the flowering plants, the poison- 
ous fungi, and certain special parasitic vegetable growths. 

Poisonous flowering plants. 

It is well known that there is a large number of plants 
all or parts of which are poisonous when eaten, but fortun- 
ately the majority of them are either not very common or 
not attractive as food and actual cases of illness from this 
cause rarely occur, and are mostly confined to children 
eating poisonous berries. Amongst the best known of such 
plants are the deadly nightshade, henbane, spotted and other 
varieties of hemlock, foxglove, hellebore, monkshood, labur- 
num, bryony, yew, tansy and pennyroyal. These plants owe 
their harmful properties to poisonous chemical substances, 
for the most part alkaloids, of which strychnine, atropine, 
conine and aconite are well-known examples. The symptoms 
vary according to the nature of the chemical active principles 
and these and other particulars are set out in detail in text- 
books on Toxicology. 

Although a few of them, e.g. water hemlock, which has 
been eaten in mistake for parsnips and for celery, are eaten 
in mistake for edible foods, these accidents are rare, so these 
conditions hardly come under the category of food poisoning 
and do not require further consideration here. 



28 POISONOUS FUNGI [CH. 

In this connection it may be mentioned that milk is said 
occasionally to have produced gastro-intestinal symptoms 
due to the consumption by the cow of certain poisonous 
plants, such as poisonous ivy {Rhus toxicodendron) or even 
the leaves of the common artichoke. 

According to Miiller the milk of goats which have eaten 
Colchicum autumnale has caused the poisoning of infants. 

Poisonous fungi. 

Poisoning by fungi usually results when certain noxious 
varieties are mistaken for edible kinds and are eaten as food. 
This condition therefore properly comes under the designa- 
tion of food poisoning. 

Cooke, writing in 1894, states that the number of species 
of poisonous fungi found in this country is comparatively 
small and with knowledge and experience the list is gradually 
being reduced. 

In this country Agaricus campestris (the common mush- 
room) and, to a lesser extent, Agaricus oreades, are the only 
fungi eaten, but a considerably wider selection is made on 
the continent. Cases of poisoning appear to be most numerous 
in the United States of America, probably due to the large 
influx of a mushroom eating population from Southern 
Europe liable to confuse poisonous American varieties with 
rather similar kinds which are eaten without harm in their 
native lands. In illustration of this frequency it may be 
stated that Jordan (1917) mentions that in the vicinity of 
New York City there were twenty-two deaths from mush- 
room poisoning in one ten-day period (September, 1911) 
following heavy rains. The question of mushroom poisoning 
has naturally received special attention in America and we 
owe much of our recently acquired knowledge as to the 
nature of the poisons concerned to Ford and his fellow- 
workers in that country. 

The fungi chiefly responsible for poisoning cases are 
Amanita muscaria (the fly fungus) and Amanita phalloides 
(death cup), but a large number of other fungi have been 
shown to possess poisonous properties: Cooke mentions 
twenty- two poisonous species in this country. 



I 



IIlJ POISONOUS FUNGI 29 

The S5miptoms of poisoning may be nervous or gastro- 
intestinal in type or more commonly a mixture of both. 
Common nervous symptoms are muscular twitchings ex- 
tending to tetanic spasms or even general convulsions, 
disorders of vision and of the other special senses, somnolence 
and coma. The gastro-intestinal symptoms are the usual' 
ones of nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, with great thirst 
and prostration. The body is cold with weak quick pulse 
and laboured respiration. 

Mcllvaine (19 12) experimented on himself with pieces of 
Amanita muscaria, the size of a hazel nut, and found that it 
produced vertigo, nausea, pallor, exaggeration of vision, 
and respiratory distress, the effects passing off in two hours 
leaving severe headache. 

The poisonous properties of these fungi are all chemical 
in nature, although not the same for all the different 
species, and the degree and severity of the symptoms are 
proportional to the quantity of poison taken. There is not 
much evidence of idiosyncrasy in individuals and the well- 
known variability of toxicity of different plants of the same 
species can probably be explained on other grounds. 

Ford (1910-11) divides the poisonous fungi into three 
groups : 

A. Those containing poisons acting on the nerve centres, 
e.g. Amanita muscaria. 

B. Those producing degenerative changes in the internal 
organs, e.g. Amanita phalloides, Amanita verna, etc. 

C. Those causing gastro-intestinal disturbances of a more 
or less violent character, e.g. Lactarius torminosus, Clitocyhe 
illudens, Entoloma sinuatum, etc. 

From Amanita muscaria the substance muscarine has been 
isolated and studied in a pure condition by Schmiedeberg 
and Koppe. Although muscarine is a powerful poison the 
symptoms it produces in the human subject are not identical 
with those produced by this type of mushroom poisoning. 
Also an infusion of the fresh fungus is very poisonous to 
flies while muscarine itself is harmless to those insects. 
While, therefore, it is reasonable to assume that muscarine 
plays a large part in the toxicity of this mushroom it is 



30 POISONOUS FUNGI [CH. 

probably associated with other poisonous bodies which have 
not yet been isolated and studied. 

Muscarine is a non-protein substance with the formula 
C5H15NO3, which forms definite salts with acids. It is a 
colourless and tasteless liquid readily miscible in water. 
Another non-protein body of definite chemical composition 
and possessing poisonous properties is helvellic acid, which 
has been isolated from the poisonous Helvella esculentia. 

From the highly poisonous Amanita phalloides toxic sub- 
stances of an essentially different nature have been isolated. 
Robert in 189 1 isolated a poisonous body which he considered 
to be a t ox-albumin and called phallin. This substance is 
powerfully haemolytic. Abel and Ford (1907) consider it to 
be non-protein and to be a glucoside. 

Ford (1906) working with this fungus obtained two toxic 
substances, one which he called amanita-haemolysin, and 
identical with Robert's phallin, and the other a-toxin. 
Because of the rapidity with which it is destroyed by heat 
(half-an-hour at 65° C.) and by the action of pepsin and 
pancreatic juice, Ford and Bronson (1913) consider that 
amanita-haemolysin is of little importance in cases of fungus 
poisoning. It kills animals only slowly (three to ten days), 
causing local oedema and haemoglobinuria. They regard the 
a-toxin as the active poison chiefly because of its resistance 
to the action of heat and the digestive ferments and because 
of its ability to produce lesions in animals essentially identical 
with those described for man. They do not regard it as 
either a glucoside or a protein and remark that its extreme 
toxicity rank it as one of the most powerful known poisons 
of plant origin. These facts are in accord with the well- 
known fact that these mushrooms remain after cooking in- 
tensely poisonous to man, and that while the juice of the 
cooked Amanita is poisonous to animals in small doses, it is 
devoid of haemolytic properties. 

Poisonous parasitic growths. 

The best known example of this kind of food poisoning is 
the condition known as ergotism, while lathyrism is probably 
a disease of this nature. 



Ill] ERGOTISM 31 

Ergotism. Practically unknown in this country and very 
rare now in Europe (Russia is its last home), outbreaks of 
ergotism or ergot poisoning were a feature of medieval 
Europe and epidemics seem to have been very widespread 
and exceedingly fatal. The condition was probably exagger- 
ated by the bad social and sanitary condition of the peasantry 
especially by their chronic underfeeding. For a description 
of these outbreaks and a graphic account of the condition 
the reader is referred to the article by Allbutt in Allbutt's 
System of Medicine (2nd edition, vol. 11. Part i, p. 884). 
Many types of symptoms were recorded and the disease ran 
sometimes an acute, sometimes a chronic course. 

The disease was due to the consumption of rye grain 
affected with a vegetable parasite [Claviceps purpurea) form- 
ing the so-called spurred rye. Claviceps purpurea is a fungus 
attacking grain usually, but not exclusively, rye, the myce- 
lium growth replacing the grain. The grains not displaced 
are discoloured and of a brownish or purple colour while the 
flour made from the diseased rye is correspondingly dis- 
coloured and emits a sour odour. The condition in the grain 
is easily recognized by microscopic examination, while there 
are fairly reliable chemical tests to identify it in bread and 
in flour. 

As regards the poisonous principles of ergot up to com- 
paratively recently the work of Robert was followed. He 
found three substances: ergo tine, sphacelinic acid and cor- 
nutine, and considered that they all played a part in the 
production of the toxic symptoms. Recent studies by Barger 
and Dale have demonstrated more definite toxic bodies. 
They have isolated two highly poisonous bodies ^-hydroxy- 
phenylethylamine and j8-iminazolethyl amine. Both are de- 
rived from relatively indifferent amino-acids (i.e. tyrosine and 
histidine respectively) by the splitting off of carbon dioxide. 

Ergotism is chiefly of historical interest as a striking 
example of the possibility of the occurrence of widespread 
outbreaks of food poisoning persisting quite uncontrolled 
so long as the cause remained unrecognized. Even allowing 
for medieval exaggeration the number of victims seems to 
have been enormous and their sufferings appalling. 



32 LATHYRISM [CH. 

Lathyrism is another rare condition met with in certain 
parts of Europe (Italy, France), to a small extent in North 
Africa (Algeria), but especially in India. 

A comprehensive contribution to the subject was made by 
Buchanan, I. M.S., dealing with outbreaks in India (1896- 
1902), while a valuable account and summary of our know- 
ledge is given in a recent communication by Stockman 

(1917). 

The disease occurs in man as a chronic nervous disorder 
due to the habitual use as a food of the peas of certain species 
of Lathy rus (vetchlings), the most important being L. salivus 
(S. Europe and India), L. cicera (France, Italy, and Algeria) 
and L. clymenum (N. Africa, the Levant and Spain). It 
occurs endemically and epidemically, and is first described 
in the writings of Hippocrates. The symptoms appear only 
after the peas have been eaten for some time and they vary 
greatly. When the peas are the sole diet the disease may 
appear in six to eight weeks. Individual susceptibility ap- 
pears to have a considerable influence. Men are at least ten 
times as frequently affected as women. 

The symptoms vary greatly according to the amount and 
period over which the peas are eaten. They usually start 
with cramps in the calves followed by motor paralysis of the 
lower limbs and often of the sphincters. A characteristic gait 
developes and walking is difficult and laborious. A number 
of other symptoms are described by different authors. Stock- 
man points out that as very large numbers of mankind eat 
Lathyrus peas it is certain that when they are taken as part 
of a mixed dietary no poisoning results. In times of famine 
and poverty an excess is very apt to bring on all the symp- 
toms of lathyrism. 

Alkaloidal bodies were extracted by different workers 
from the peas and Stockman was able to extract a poisonous 
alkaloid, but only in minute quantities, which caused paraly- 
sis symptoms in monkeys. 

It is possible that other grain parasites may set up food 
poisoning when admixed with flour. In illustration of this 
possibility it may be mentioned that recently (1917) a number 
of cases of poisoning in France have been attributed to the 



Ill] LATHYRISM 33 

presence of corn-cockle (Agrostemma githago) in flour and 
bread. One sample of wheat examined by Stoecklin (1917) 
contained 19 per cent, of foreign seeds, including 10*2 per 
cent, of corn-cockle, and it is possible that contamination 
of wheat with this parasite is not of rare occurrence. The 
injurious action of corn-cockle is due to the presence of sapo- 
toxin, and a quantity of four grms. of corn-cockle, equivalent 
to 0-2 grm. of sapo-toxin, produces distinctly harmful effects 
on adults. Sapo-toxin is best identified by means of its 
haemolytic action. 

REFERENCES. 

Animals poisonous when eaten. 

Faust (1906). Die tierischen Gifte. 
Giinther (1880). The Study of Fishes. 
Robert (1906). Lehrbuch der Intoxikationen. 
Mitchell (1900). Flesh Foods. 

Miura and Takesaki (1890). Vir chow's Archiv, cxxii. 92. 
Savtschenko (1886). Atlas der Pois sons Veneneux. St Petersburg. 
Tahara (191 1). Biochemische Zeitschr. xxx. 255. 

Takahashi and Inoko (1890). Arch. exp. Path, und Pharni. xxvi. 
401, 453- 

Poisonous plants and fungi. 

Abel and Ford (1907). Journ. Biol. Chem. 

Allbutt. System of Medicine, 2nd edition. Vol 11. Part i. p. 884, 
Cooke (1894). Edible and Poisonous Mushrooms. London. 
Ford (1906). Journ. Inf. Dis. in. 191. 

(1910). Journ. of P harm, and Exp. Therap. 11. 145. 

(1910-11). Ibid. II. 285. 

Ford and Bronson (1913). Ibid. iv. 241. 

and Sherrich (191 3). Ibid. iv. 321. 

Jordan (1917). Food Poisoning. 

Mcllvaine (191 2). One Thousand American Fungi. 

Stockman (191 7). Ed. Med. Journ. New Series, xix. 277, 297. 

Stoecklin (191 7). Analyst, April, 191 7, 142. 



s. F. p. 



CHAPTER IV 

FOOD IDIOSYNCRASY 

The subject of food idiosyncrasy is not of much practical 
importance in itself, the number of persons affected being 
inconsiderable. On the other hand, it is of great theoretical 
interest since the scientific problems which it introduces are 
of considerable importance. The solution of these problems 
may throw much light upon other types of food infection, 
and this possibility makes the subject of more than passing 
interest and indeed one worthy of detailed consideration. 

It has been recognized for a long time that certain indi- 
viduals are peculiarly intolerant to particular foodstuffs, the 
ingestion by them of such foods, even in minute quantity, 
being followed by a definite train of symptoms, which, how- 
ever, may vary considerably in different persons. It is usual 
to describe such symptoms as being due to a peculiar idio- 
syncrasy of the individual and to dismiss the subject with 
this verbal subtifuge, which explains nothing. It is only in 
quite recent years that any scientific explanation has been 
forthcoming to account for this peculiarity. 

Persons suffering from this food sensitiveness frequently 
have been affected from early infancy, while in a few cases 
there is a history of hereditary transmission. Lesne and 
Richet (1913), for example, mention a case in which idio- 
syncrasy to eggs existed in four generations. 

The symptoms which occur usually fall into one or both 
of two groups, the one being disturbances of the gastro- 
intestinal tract, shown by nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, 
the other various skin affections, the commonest being 
urticaria, erythema and eczema. In some cases a less direct 
group of symptoms is met with, such as dyspnoea, inco- 
ordination of the lower limbs and attacks of asthma. 

The first co-ordinating fact which emerges is that when 
these foods are tabulated all are found to be protein in nature 



CH. IV] FOOD IDIOSYNCRASY 35 

or at least to contain proteins. By far the commonest food 
to cause such abnormal reactions is egg albumin, while other 
foods are fish, cheese, tomatoes, buckwheat, pork and shell- 
fish. 

A few typical instances of food idiosyncrasy may be men- 
tioned. 

Galloway (1903) quotes the case of a girl, who suffered 
year after year from a profuse eruption of exudative erythema 
with purpuric lesions. During each attack she also suffered 
from entero-colitis of severe degree and haematuria lasting 
for some weeks. Every autumn she was taken to the country 
and as soon as she ate the first blackberries and nuts her 
symptoms resulted. 

Long (19 13) records an extreme case of sensitiveness to 
white of egg in a boy. No effect was noticed when egg was 
first given to him at the age of ten months, but when next 
given, when fourteen months old, after only a taste of it 
"he cried out and clawed at his mouth," while his lips, 
tongue and the mucous membrane of the mouth immediately 
became enormously swollen, while urticarial wheals appeared 
about his mouth. He did not, however, become generally 
ill. Towards the end of his second year, while playing with 
eggshells, urticarial wheals appeared on his hands and arms. 
This occurred several times until his mother realized the cause 
of the urticaria. At twenty- two months one-eighth of the 
white of an egg in milk was immediately followed by swelling 
of the mouth, urticaria and vomiting. Given egg-white again 
when two years old more severe symptoms were present, as 
not only were those mentioned above induced, but also 
marked flushing, increased respiration, vomiting, muscular 
twitching followed by a semi-comatose condition. Complete 
recovery after three hours. In this case somewhat similar 
symptoms resulted when five years old after eating an 
almond and a Brazil nut. 

Smith (1909) reports the case of a man who throughout 
his life (first noticed when nine years old) showed a very 
marked hypersensitiveness to buckwheat, the symptoms 
being urticaria, angioneurotic oedema and vomiting. 

McBride and Schorer (1916) collected particulars of sixty 

3-2 



36 FOOD IDIOSYNCRASY [CH. 

cases of food sensitization causing skin lesions. These were 
more often urticaria than erythema. In their series fish, 
tomatoes and cheese produced only urticaria, while eggs 
usually were followed by urticaria, but not invariably. 
Cereals and pork caused erythema in a considerable percent- 
age of the cases, the lesions usually appearing within less 
than four hours of eating the food; tomatoes and cereals 
generally produced these symptoms in less than an hour, 
while with fish, nuts and cheese symptoms were for the most 
part delayed until after four to twelve hours. The eruption 
itself usually lasted one to twelve hours, but in a small per- 
centage of cases from one day to a week. In some instances 
there was also involvement of the respiratory tract; this 
varied from a slight cough to a severe dyspnoea. More than 
half of the cases of egg sensitization showed these symptoms, 
while they also occurred in a considerable proportion of 
those resulting from the consumption of fish, cereals and 
pork. 

Idiosyncrasy to certain proteins may be exhibited without 
the absorption being of necessity through the alimentary 
canal, as in the extraordinary instance reported by Hollick 
(1903). In this case the symptoms followed the application 
of a hot linseed-meal poultice to an inflamed haemorrhoid. 
The symptoms took the form of a contracted feehng in the 
throat, purpuric condition of the skin with an eruption 
(cutis anserina), very rapid pulse, later diarrhoea and vomit- 
ing. Face and extremities cyanosed and patient in a state 
of collapse. These symptoms were ascribed to the linseed 
from the fact that on two previous occasions the man had 
suffered from similar, but less marked, symptoms after 
taking linseed. On the first occasion he had eaten a few lin- 
seed seeds, while on the second he had eaten two lozenges of 
linseed and liquorice. 

The explanation of this interesting condition is now usually 
given as one of anaphylaxis. This is not a textbook of bac- 
teriology and this complicated and difficult subject cannot 
be dealt with here in detail, but the following short account 
will explain what is meant by this hypothesis and the way 
this condition is supposed to arise. 



I,V] FOOD IDIOSYNCRASY 37 

It has long been recognized that the injection of protein 
substances, such as blood serum, into man or animals may 
occasionally cause poisonous symptoms, although such an 
injection is quite without effect in the majority of cases. It 
was found by Richet and others that such a condition of 
sensitiveness to proteins could artificially be induced in 
animals under certain circumstances. The easiest way such 
a hypersensitive condition may be set up is by the injection 
of a sensitizing dose of serum, insufficient in itself to produce 
symptoms, followed after a suitable time interval (usually 
about two weeks) by a second dose of serum from the same 
animal. This second injection, if made into a guinea-pig 
or other suitable animal, may be followed by very severe 
symptoms, with, not infrequently, collapse and death. 

The mini^ium amount of serum necessary to bring about 
the symptoms of fatal anaphylactic shock is much greater, 
perhaps a thousand times greater, than the original sensi- 
tizing dose, while time is necessary for the anaphylactic 
condition to develop. The condition is specific, i.e. is mani- 
fested only on the re-injection of the same protein as that 
used for the sensitizing dose. Also it is to be noted that, 
within certain broad limits, the symptoms of anaphylactic 
shock are the same for each animal, no matter what the 
nature of the sensitizing protein employed. 

If a certain quantity of the serum of an anaphylactic 
guinea-pig is injected into a normal guinea-pig the latter 
becomes anaphylactic, i.e. will give the symptoms of ana- 
phylactic shock when serum from the animal used to sensi- 
tize is injected into it. This proves the existence of a con- 
dition of passive anaphylaxis. 

Without going into questions involving the exact mechan- 
ism it may be said that the condition of anaphylaxis is one 
of marked hypersensitiveness to the action of foreign pro- 
teins circulating in the blood. 

The matter is very well put by Wells (1918) in his Chemical 
Pathology, p. 198: 

" Presumably anaphylactic intoxication is but an exaggera- 
tion of the normal process of defence of the body against 
foreign proteins (including bacteria) through digestion. 



38 FOOD IDIOSYNCRASY [CH. 

Normally this is accomplished in the ahmentary tract and 
complete disintegration past the toxin stage is made certain 
by the presence of erepsin in the intestinal wall ; but if intact 
foreign protein molecules reach the blood in any way, this 
same digestive destruction is performed by the enzjnnes of 
the blood or tissues. So abnormal is the ' parenteral ' intro- 
duction of foreign proteins that, once it has happened, the 
protective mechanism is stimulated to the production of 
large amounts of proteolytic substances, and on this account 
if another quantity of the same protein is again parenterally 
introduced the breaking down of the protein is extremely 
rapid. Certain of the disintegration products are toxic, but 
with the normal rate of disintegration the amount present 
at any one time is inadequate to cause poisoning; when the 
proteolysis is accelerated as in the sensitized animal, a 
poisonous dose may be produced with the resulting anaphy- 
lactic intoxication. Whether this proteolysis takes place in 
the blood and tissues is not known." 

The hypothesis that these cases of food idiosyncrasy are a 
variety of anaphylaxis is based on the supposition that in 
the individuals who exhibit the condition there is a marked 
hypersensitiveness to the action of particular proteins in 
these special foods, that they gain access to the circulation 
as unaltered protein and that the symptoms caused are due 
to individual intolerance of their presence in the blood. 

There are strong arguments which suggest this as the true 
explanation. In the first place the symptoms induced, in- 
cluding the rapidity of onset (allowing time for absorption 
from the alimentary canal) , the minute dose required, and the 
lesions caused, resemble in many ways those recognized as 
the symptoms of anaphylaxis. Further, there are many 
direct experiments which support this view, some of which 
may be mentioned. 

Bruck (1909) investigated the possibility of producing 
experimentally a state of anaphylaxis by means of certain 
foods. Using hog serum and crab meat he obtained positive 
results with both substances in rabbits and guinea-pigs. He 
recorded the case of a man, aged twenty-four years, who 
since he was two years old could not eat pork or indeed any 



IV] FOOD IDIOSYNCRASY 39 

form of pig meat without the production of urticaria. He 
demonstrated that this man's serum possessed an anaphy- 
lactic antibody, and he was able to transmit this antibody 
to normal animals so that the injection into them of hog 
meat produced the typical s5niiptoms of hypersensitiveness. 

Schloss (19 12) was one of the first to draw attention to 
the fact that the symptoms of egg idiosyncrasy in children 
were those of anaphylaxis. He recorded particulars of a boy 
of eight years who showed marked urticarial lesions following 
the ingestion of eggs, almonds or oatmeal. Symptoms due 
to eating oats appeared some time after the child had first 
eaten oatmeal when he was twenty-two months old. Schloss 
employed a cutaneous inoculation test and found this pro- 
duced an urticarial wheal at the site of inoculation, this 
being only produced by the protein constituents of eggs, 
almonds or oats. He was able to immunize this patient 
against eggs by feeding him with ovo-mucoid (one of the 
active proteins in eggs) in gradually increasing doses. At the 
same time immunity to oatmeal and an appreciable decline 
in susceptibility to almonds resulted. 

Schloss carried out a number of experiments to see if any 
protective substance was present in normal individuals but 
failed to find any such body. By infecting guinea-pigs intra- 
peritoneally with some of the patient's serum it was possible 
to passively sensitize them to ovo-mucoid. He therefore con- 
cluded that this peculiar idiosyncrasy was due to protein 
sensitiveness or anaphylaxis. 

Miihsam and Jacobsohn (1914) examined the sera of two 
patients suffering from urticaria resulting from eating crabs, 
and found that their sera reacted to an extract of crab albu- 
min, so long as urticarial symptoms were present. 

Bronfenbrenner, Andrews and Scott (1915) give particulars 
of a girl who was subject to asthmatic attacks and severe 
gastro-intestinal disturbances following the ingestion of 
small quantities of white of egg, this peculiarity having been 
noticed since very early childhood. By means of the Abder- 
halden test they demonstrated the presence of a specific anti- 
body against the egg protein. They injected a small amount 
of the patient's serum into guinea-pigs thus passively sensi- 



40 FOOD IDIOSYNCRASY [CH. 

tizing them against egg protein and subsequently repeated 
the Abderhalden test, using the serum of these guinea-pigs, 
and in this way confirmed their finding of a specific antibody 
against the egg protein. 

The relationship of skin diseases and susceptibiHty to 
proteins has been studied by a number of workers and bears 
indirectly upon this question. One such investigation may 
be mentioned. 

Blackfan (1916) used a modification of Von Pirquet's test 
to study the question. Superficial scarification of the skin 
with a needle was followed by rubbing gently the substances 
used into the abraded surface. A positive reaction is shown 
by an urticarial wheal or marked erythema and oedema at 
the point of scarification, appearing within a few minutes. 
He also used an intra-cutaneous test. His results were more 
particularly in relation to eczema. Of forty-three patients 
without eczema, only one showed any evidence of suscepti- 
bility to proteins by cutaneous and intra-cutaneous tests, 
while of twenty-seven patients with eczema twenty-two gave 
evidence of susceptibility to proteins. White of egg, cow's 
milk and woman's milk were the substances which most fre- 
quently caused a reaction. 

Results on the same lines have been obtained by Strickler 
and Goldberg (1916). 

Greer (19 17) studied the intradermal reaction ef infants 
suffering from gastro-intestinal disorders. He used intra- 
cutaneous injections of egg, cow's milk, and human milk 
albumin. Of twenty-six infants subject to gastro-intestinal 
disorders or atrophy resulting therefrom, twenty-three gave 
definite intradermal reaction with lact-albumin of the cow. Of 
seventeen control infants not so affected five gave a positive 
reaction with one or other of the substances used and three 
of these were cases of eczema, one gave a history of a previous 
severe attack of gastro-enteritis, and one of an acute and 
severe attack of scurvy. Greer considers that the results 
suggest that sensitization to cow's milk proteins does occur 
in acute or chronic gastro-intestinal disturbance and that 
lact-albumin is probably the protein to which. sensitization 
most easily occurs. 



IV] FOOD IDIOSYNCRASY 4^ 

Accepting food idiosyncrasy as being due to a condition 
of hypersensitization to particular proteins we have yet to 
consider the causes leading to the development of this con- 
dition. In a few cases the condition is hereditary but in most 
is acquired. Under normal conditions the intestinal mucous 
membrane appears to limit very sharply the passage into 
the circulation of any but digested protein. It has been sug- 
gested that this hypersensitive condition arises from an 
abnormal permeability of the intestinal mucous membrane 
which allows the particular protein to pass through in an 
unchanged state, and in this condition gain access to the 
blood and tissues. This foreign protein circulating in the 
body produces the condition of hypersensitiveness so that 
subsequent introductions of this protein cause the develop- 
ment of the symptoms of anaphylaxis. 

This hypothesis is supported by the fact that Rosenau 
and Anderson were able in certain cases to sensitize guinea- 
pigs by feeding with horse meat and horse serum. This 
seems to be an inconstant phenomenon, and could not be 
confirmed, for example by Besredka, but is by no means im- 
probable in view of the facts that on the one hand extremely 
minute doses of the protein introduced into the circulation 
are capable of sensitizing the body, and on the other that it 
has been shown that when animals are fed with proteins in 
large quantities they may be demonstrated as such in the 
circulation and even occasionally in the urine. 

The interesting results of Lesne and Dreyfus (191 1) bear 
upon this point. They injected ovo-albumin into the stomach 
and small intestine of rabbits and obtained no evidence of 
anaphylaxis, but provoked it by injections into the large 
intestine. It is known that substances may be absorbed from 
the large intestine in a comparatively unaltered condition. 
The earlier work of Besredka (1908, 191 1), in which he found 
that the protection conferred upon sensitized guinea-pigs by 
the injection of milk into the rectum developed more rapidly 
and uniformly than when given by the mouth, is evidence in 
the same direction and suggests that the antigen is absorbed 
solely or chiefly from the large intestine. 

Besredka (1917) in his latest monograph upon the subject 



42 FOOD IDIOSYNCRASY [CH. 

has revised some of his earUer work. He records that guinea- 
pigs sensitized against egg-white, milk or serum, can be 
made anti-anaphylactic by feeding by the mouth with these 
substances, but that this protection is not developed at the 
end of twenty-four hours, but only after the lapse of forty- 
eight hours or better three days. Animals so fed will resist 
completely an otherwise toxic dose of the sensitizing sub- 
s', ance. Grineff has shown that (unlike its action as regards 
the production of anaphylaxis) heated egg-white acts in the 
same way as raw egg-white in conferring this immunity, 
suggesting that the protein is only absorbed after digestive 
action. 

Certain of the scientific investigations which have been 
carried out in connection with disturbances of the infant 
following the introduction of artificial feeding deal with the 
possibility of the direct absorption of proteins from the ali- 
mentary canal, and these in general support the above con- 
tention and furnish additional data in favour of it. 

Ganghofer and Langer in 1904 found that in young animals 
under eight days old the intestinal tract permitted the pass- 
age of heterologous proteins, such as egg or beef, using as 
the determining test the application of precipitin tests to the 
blood serum. When over eight days old this did not occur. 

Somewhat similar results have been obtained by other 
investigators and it would appear that while the gastro- 
intestinal wall of the new-born infant is, or may be, perme- 
able to foreign protein during the first few days after birth, the 
infant soon develops a defensive mechanism which can cope 
with foreign protein and prevent it reaching the blood stream 
in an unchanged condition. On the other hand injuries to the 
intestinal mucous membrane seem to be capable of breaking 
down these protective functions so that, in a certain pro- 
portion of such cases, foreign proteins again may pass un- 
changed into the blood. 

Moro (1906) found that two out of twenty-two children, 
very ill with digestive derangements, showed the presence of 
foreign protein (cow casein) in the blood, as demonstrated 
by precipitin tests. 

Lust (1913) fed infants with such foreign proteins as egg 



IV] FOOD IDIOSYNCRASY 43 

or beef, and found (using the precipitin test applied to the 
urine) that they were not absorbed. On the other hand in 
infants suffering from acute and chronic nutritional dis- 
turbances, such as gastro-enteritis, in nine out of sixteen 
cases egg albumin passed unchanged through the intestinal 
wall, and ox serum in one out of seventeen cases. 

The experiments of Hyashi (1914) were similar in their 
results. Schloss and Worthen (19 16) have investigated the 
same point and come to a similar conclusion. They found 
the precipitin test applied to the urine for the detection of 
egg protein more sensitive than the anaphylactic test. 

These facts suggest that the idiosyncrasy to cow's milk, 
which is found in certain cases, and which must be ascribed 
to a passage of unchanged protein through the intestinal 
wall, may result from sensitization during the first few days 
of life when the intestine is permeable, but is more likely to 
arise later on in infancy as a result of the passage of such 
proteins through an intestinal mucous membrane sufficiently 
damaged to allow their passage. It is also probable that the 
condition is favoured by a common concomitant of intestinal 
disturbances, an habitual excess of food. 

Two good examples of idiosyncrasy to cow's milk are given 
by Talbot (1916). 

Case I. A healthy baby, breast fed until 8| months old, 
then given one bottle of diluted cow's milk. This was taken 
without ill effects. No cow's milk given for three weeks; 
then given as whole milk and was at once vomited. A week 
later diluted milk was given but was vomited. Breast feeding 
was continued, but at the end of a further week the baby 
was given i oz. of milk with 8 ozs. of cereal gruel. Although 
only one teaspoonful was taken the baby shuddered when 
he swallowed it, vomited shortly afterwards and within an 
hour the body was covered with an urticarial eruption. The 
milk of a goat was then given and this was taken without 
any s5miptoms. Six months later cow's milk was given 
without further trouble. 

Case 2. The mother was unable to breast feed and during 
the first eight weeks of life the infant was given various 
modifications of cow's milk, most of which were vomited. 



44 FOOD IDIOSYNCRASY [CH. IV 

The child had to have a wet nurse. At six different times 
attempts were made to wean her and she was given cow's 
milk in various ways, and in all sorts of modifications, but 
in every instance the milk was vomited and the baby became 
very ill. These attacks were never associated with urticaria. 
Scarification skin tests with fresh cow's milk, dried cow 
casein, the proteins of barley and potato all gave slight posi- 
tive reactions. The baby was then given goat's milk, which 
it took without any symptoms of derangement. 



REFERENCES. 

Besredka (1908). Compt. Rend, de la Soc. Biol. lxv. 478. 

(1911)- Ibid. Lxx. 203. 

(1917)- Monograph on Anaphylaxie et antianaphylaxie. 

Blackfan (1916). Am. Journ. of Diseases of Children, xi. 441. 
Bronfenbrenner, Andrews and Scott (1915). Journ. Am. Med. Assoc. 

Lxiv. 1306. 
Bruck (1909). Archiv fitr Dermal, und Syphilis, xcvi. 241. 
Galloway (1903). Brit. Journ. of Dermal, xv. 235. 
Creer (1917). Archives of Pediatrics, xxxiv. 810. 
Flollick (1903). Lancet, 11. 1428. 
Hyashi (i9i4). Monatschr. f. Kinderh. xii. 749. 
Lesne and Dreyfus (191 1). Compt. Rend, de la Soc. Biol. lxx. 136. 
Lesne and Richet (1913). Archives de medecine des enfants, xvi. 81. 
Eong (1913). Joiivn. of Cutan. Diseases, xxxi. 108. 
Enst (1913)- Jahrb.f. Kinderh. lxxvii. 383. 
McBride and Schorer (19 16). Journ. of Cutan. and Genito-Urinary 

Diseases, xxxiv. 70. 
Moro (1906). Miinch. med. Woch. liii. 214, 2383. 
Miihsam and Jacobsohn (1914). Deut. med. Woch. xl. 1067. 
Schloss (1912). Am. Journ. of Diseases of Children, iii. 341. 
Schloss and Worthen (1916). Am. Journ. of Diseases of Children, xi. 

342. 
Smith (1909). Arch. Int. Med. iii. 350. 

Strickler and Goldberg (1916). Journ. Am. Med. Assoc, lxvi. 248. 
Talbot (1916). Boston Med. and Surg. Journ. clxxv. 409. 
WeUs (1918). Chemical Pathology, Third Edition. 



CHAPTER V 

THE CLINICAL AND GENERAL FEATURES OF 
OUTBREAKS OF FOOD POISONING 

As explained in Chapter I most food poisoning outbreaks 
are bacterial in origin. The present chapter is devoted to a 
general account of the characters of such outbreaks and a 
consideration of the different kinds of bacteria which have 
been found to be present. One group of cases, the so-called 
botulism, differ so materially as regards their causation, 
clinical features and general pathology, that they form a 
group apart and are most conveniently dealt with by separate 
presentation. This peculiar type 'of food poisoning is con- 
sidered in Chapter IX, and the particulars given below do 
not apply to botulism. 

The general clinical picture and other features of food 
poisoning outbreaks of bacterial origin are very much the 
same whatever the bacterial cause and although the particu- 
lars which follow are in the main based upon outbreaks due 
to one group of bacteria (the Gaertner group) they may be 
taken as generally applicable to all outbreaks of bacterial 
origin apart from botulism. 

The following details are compiled from the analysis of a 
very large number (about 112) of outbreaks in this country 
studied by the writer, the majority of which form the basis 
of a comprehensive special Report to the Local Government 
Board (Savage, 1913) to which reference should be made for 
detailed particulars in regard to some special points. 

The general nature of such attacks and the lines of eluci- 
dation will be best realized if a typical outbreak is described. 
The following one, investigated by the writer in 1908, will 
serve as a good illustration. 

On Friday, May 8th, 1908, in Murrow, a village in Cam- 
bridgeshire a woman purchased some pork bones from a 



46 FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING [CH. 

local butcher and that evening used them to make some 
brawn. The following morning the brawn was emptied out 
of the saucepan in which it had been made and, without 
cleansing the vessel, potatoes and asparagus were cooked in 
it. These vegetables were eaten for mid-day dinner by four 
persons and all were subsequently attacked with vomiting, 
diarrhoea, and the other symptoms of food poisoning, two 
in the night and two next morning. The husband who was 
away at mid-day remained well and unaffected. 

On the Monday, two days later, the brawn made up into 
pork cheeses (a local name for brawn) was given away to 
three different neighbours and was consumed by a further 
fourteen persons, all of whom were attacked with similar 
symptoms, after an incubation period varying from twelve 
to forty-eight hours. Three of the eighteen attacked died. 
No one eating the brawn escaped. 

None of the brawn was available for examination, but 
from the only fatal case investigated a Gaertner group 
bacillus (B. aertrycke) was isolated and its connection with 
the outbreak was further proved by the fact that it was 
agglutinated in high dilution by the serum of three sur- 
vivors. 

The brawn was home prepared and the materials were 
slowly heated for several hours with a short boil at the 
finish, but obviously actual boiling temperature was not 
reached. That the Gaertner bacilli were present before 
preparation and survived cooking is evident from the infec- 
tion imparted to the vegetables through the uncleansed 
saucepan. Further inquiries elicited that the pig which 
supplied the bones for the brawn had suffered from local 
injury or disease of one leg, no doubt due to infection by 
this food poisoning bacillus. 

Here are all the commonly present features of such out- 
breaks. A typical group of symptoms, a number of cases 
geographically separated but linked by a particular food 
consumed in common, a special bacillus demonstrated to be 
the pathological cause, and lastly (unlike most outbreaks) 
with definite evidence connecting it with disease in the 
animal supplying the incriminated food. 



V] FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING 47 

Incubation period. There is always some interval between 
the ingestion of the food and the onset of symptoms. The 
actual period varies greatly and in the writer's series of 
British outbreaks varied from half to forty hours or even 
longer. The interval most frequently recorded was from six 
to twelve hours. Not only does the incubation period vary in 
different outbreaks, but in the same outbreak widely different 
incubation periods have been recorded. These variations are 
easily explainable. In some cases the living infective bacilli 
are ingested with the food with none or but little of their 
toxic products. In such cases the incubation period will be 
of appreciable duration since time must elapse before the 
bacilli can manufacture sufficient toxins to manifest symp- 
toms. In other cases the bacilli may be killed during the 
processes of manufacture, or preparation for the table, and 
only the heat-resisting toxic products be left. These being 
preformed will exert their poisonous properties rapidly. The 
majority of outbreaks must be looked upon as being caused 
by a mixture of bacilli and toxins, the *bacilli having had 
time to grow in the food before it was consumed. In such 
cases varying incubation periods are likely to be met with 
since the amount of toxin ingested will vary with the quan- 
tity of food eaten and the degree of local bacterial contami- 
nation of the food. 

Symptoms. As a rule no symptoms are present during the 
incubation period. The onset is usually sudden. The symp- 
toms are essentially those of marked gastro-intestinal irrita- 
tion but are frequently accompanied or followed by symp- 
toms pointing to involvment of the nervous system. 

Three symptoms — vomiting, diarrhoea and abdominal 
pain — are met with in almost every outbreak and frequently 
in every case. Vomiting is the least characteristic of these 
symptoms and is not invariably present. In the Chesterfield 
outbreak, for example, it was present in 75 per cent, of 
the cases. 

The diarrhoea is usually very severe with repeated actions 
which, as a rule, are extremely offensive. Later in the attack 
the actions are more watery and frequently green in colour. 

The abdominal pain is nearly always severe; in some out- 



48 FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING [CH. 

breaks it is spoken of as agonising, and frequently is the first 
symptom complained of. Pain in other regions, such as the 
back or limbs, is not uncommon. 

Prostration, marked and often persisting long into con- 
valescence, is usually present and is a characteristic feature 
of most of the severe attacks. Marked collapse occurs in 
severe cases, often giving rise to great anxiety. Cold sweats 
and even rigors are mentioned as symptoms in some out- 
breaks. 

As a rule a moderate elevation of temperature is present 
in the early stages of the illness. The tongue is heavily 
coated and the breath offensive. Headache is usually present 
and giddiness is frequently recorded as a symptom. 

Numbness and cramp in the hmbs are less commonly 
mentioned. Severe cramps were prominent in the Chester 
and also in the Wigan outbreaks. 

Of other conditions which may be present the most 
interesting are herpes and other rashes. Herpes was re- 
corded in a number of cases in the Bacup, Wrexham and 
Derby outbreaks, and rashes were specially mentioned in the 
Derby, Ashton-under-Lyne, Warrington and Tollesbury out- 
breaks. The rash is usually stated to be erythematous or 
urticarial in character and may be followed, as was noted in 
the Derby outbreak, by well-marked desquamation. 

The severity of the symptoms varies very greatly in 
different outbreaks, and even in the same outbreak. Their 
duration also shows considerable variation, but symptoms 
usually diminish after two or three days, although marked 
prostration may persist much longer. Very occasionally 
cases with a more prostrated course are met with, -the 
patients being ill for several weeks. 

Case to case infectivity. In the records of outbreaks it is 
extremely rare to meet with cases of secondary infection, 
but a few instances are mentioned in individual outbreaks. 
It is probable that case to case infectivity is potentially as 
great as in typhoid fever, but the cases being for the most 
part acute and quickly ending, there is but little opportunity 
for secondary infection. 

Age and sex distrihtttion. There is no evidence of any 



V] FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING 49 

special incidence on either sex or at any age period. The age 
and sex distribution in any outbreak seems to depend en- 
tirely upon the accidental age and sex distribution of those 
who ate the food. 

It is of interest to note that in several outbreaks instances 
are recorded of babies being infected, or at least attacked 
with food poisoning symptoms, through their mothers' milk, 
the mothers being themselves sufferers. Thus McClure (1913) 
in the Manchester outbreak mentions five such cases (ages 
two weeks to fourteen months), while in the 1912 Eccles 
outbreak Hamilton gives a similar case. 

Infectivity rate. As a rule the infectivity rate is high. Not 
infrequently all who ate the infected food became ill (100 
per cent.). The recorded cases in individual outbreaks often 
form 80 per cent, or more of those consuming the food 
and is rarely under 50 per cent. Probably, however, this is 
an unduly high proportion as, unless special inquiry is made 
and all the food traced, attention is apt to be concentrated 
upon the cases of illness and the families and individuals 
overlooked who consumed the food without harm. In a 
number of instances, for example, it is recorded that those 
who ate the food on the day it was prepared were not 
affected or were affected to a lesser extent. These cases 
should all be taken into consideration when the infectivity 
rate is being calculated. 

Probably the form in which the food is taken, particularly 
if alone or with other food, plays an important part, while 
there is a certain measure of individual idiosyncrasy. For 
example, in one outbreak one person ate the salmon to 
which the illness was ascribed on three different occasions 
and had more of it than anyone else, yet she had a com- 
paratively mild attack, while her husband, who consumed 
much less, was very ill and died. 

Case mortality rate. The number of fatal cases varies 
greatly in different outbreaks, as can be seen from Table I 
(Addendum I). In the 112 British outbreaks mentioned in 
that table, as far as the figures are available, there were 
some 6190 cases with ninety-four deaths, a case mortality 
rate of 1-5 per cent. For the outbreaks definitely shown to 
s. F. p. .4 



50 FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING [CH. 

be due to Gaertner group bacilli the case mortality rate was 
even lower, being 1-47 per cent. 

The virulence of the particular strain of bacilli concerned, 
the time which it has had to grow upon the incriminated food 
before consumption, and the temperature of growth, are the 
factors which probably more especially control the mortality 
rate. 

Pathological appearances. In severe cases the gastro- 
intestinal symptoms are often very intense, and it might be 
anticipated that very definite pathological changes would 
be shown in the gastro-intestinal tract in fatal cases. The 
changes found on post-mortem examination are, however, 
often slight compared with the severity of the symptoms. 
The mucous membrane of the stomach and intestine is swollen 
and congested and shows minute haemorrhagic erosions, 
but often nothing else. The kidneys usually show cloudy 
swelling, the spleen and liver are congested. These may be 
the only pathological appearances. 

The following concisely describes the findings in a case at 
Wrexham, fatal after thirteen days' illness : 

"The stomach was generally congested, but the congestion 
was more marked towards the pylorus, and several extra- 
vasations were noticed. The small intestines were much in- 
flamed, many small submucous extravasations of blood had 
taken place, and many patches of slight superficial ulcera- 
tion were visible. The large intestine was also congested, 
especially the rectum. The heart was normal. The liver, 
kidneys and spleen were congested." 

In the Limerick cases, McWeeney found that the mucous 
membrane of the stomach and intestines showed patches of 
white, prominent granules, each as large as a pin's head and 
consisting of nodules of tumid lymphoid tissue. The liver 
also showed little, indistinct pale-yellowish areas or spots, 
which microscopic examination showed to be due to intense 
fatty degeneration of the liver cells at these places. These 
areas are evidently similar to the necrotic areas met with in 
the liver, etc., of animals naturally or artificially infected 
with Gaertner group bacilli. 

Seasonal prevalence. The influence of the time of year is 



V] FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING 5I 

very marked, food poisoning outbreaks being far more preva- 
lent in the hotter months. This is clearly brought out in 
Chart I. 

This is true of outbreaks selected without regard to 
etiology and appUes, but not so conspicuously, when those 
outbreaks alone are considered, which were shown to be due , 
to one or other member of the Gaertner group (Chart 2). 
It will be noticed that the months of greatest prevalence in 
Charts i and 2 are not identical, although there is a general 
agreement. There is not sufficient data to draw any general 
deduction from the differences shown. 

The factor of temperature is probably insufficient in itself 
to explain the seasonal prevalence, and other influences may 
operate. It may be, for example, that Gaertner group bacilli 
are more virulent in the summer. The greater multiplication 
of these bacteria in hot weather would increase the oppor- 
tunities for the transmission of infection. Flies would be 
more active as vehicles of infection in the summer months. 

If reliable information was available as to the mean tem- 
perature at the time of each outbreak, and a sufficient number 
of outbreak records were available, it might be possible to 
draw interesting deductions between the temperature and 
the vehicle of infection. In Chart 3 something of the sort is 
attempted, the outbreaks being classified into the six groups 
shown and entered in the month of occurrence. No definite 
deductions can be drawn since the data for this purpose is 
vitiated by the small number of outbreaks of each group and 
by the fact that in any one year a spring month may be, for 
example, much hotter than a summer one. Assuming June, 
July and August as the three hot months it is of interest to 
note the following grouping: 







Number in 


Percentage 




Total 


June, July, 


in June, 


Group 


number 


August 


July, August 


Made up meat foods 


37 


14 


38 


Tinned foods 


18 


6 


33 


Fresh and not made up meat foods 


20 


10 


50 


Milk, cream and ice-cream 


16 


12 


75 


Viscera 


5 


I 


20 


Other foods 


5 


3 


60 



loi* 46 46 

* Insufficient particulars in the other eleven cases. 



52 



FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING 



[CH. 



4fe 



aj5 g -r D V '-> ° ^ 



Chart I. 112 British outbreaks. 






w O iz; Q 



Chart 2. British outbreaks at- 
tributed to Gaertner group 
bacilli. 



i8 

I? 
i6 

15 
















M 

M 
M 


ol 






14 






M 




13 

12 




F M 
F M 


M V 
M M 




II 




F F M M 




10 




F F F M 




9 
8 




T F F F Vl 
T F F F F vi 


7 

6 




F 

T 




V 


B T F T F M 
B B B T T M M 




5 




T 




TBBBTTFM 




4 
3 
2 

I 





V 
B 


T 
B 
B 
B 


T 


TBBBTBBF 
TBBBTBBT 
BBBBBBBB 
BBBBBBBB 


Fl 



Note to Chart 3 : 

B =Made up meat foods 

T = Tinned foods 

F = Fresh food, not made up 

M=Milk, cream, ice-cream 

V = Viscera 

O = Other foods 
Insufficient particulars avail- 
able for the other foods. 



Chart 3. British outbreaks with vehicle 
of infection. 



V] FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING 53 

Physical appearance of the incriminated food. It cannot be 
too strongly emphasized that in the vast majority of food 
poisoning outbreaks the food affected is not noticeably 
altered in either appearance, taste or smell. The prevalent 
idea that the food (when some form of meat) must be, in 
popular parlance, "tainted" has taken a long time to be-' 
come exploded and is still the prevailing view amongst the 
ignorant. At inquests and the like it is frequently a matter 
of astonishment and comment that the food found respon- 
sible for such extensive illness was not noticeably different 
from ordinary healthy meat. 

A classical illustration is furnished by the Ghent outbreak 
in 1895 investigated by Van Ermengem. In this outbreak, 
the slaughter-house inspector (a veterinary surgeon) was so 
certain that the suspected meat (saveloy), in the absence of 
any abnormal signs, could have no connection with the out- 
break that he ate two or three pieces of it, to demonstrate 
its harmlessness. He was attacked with severe cholera-like 
symptoms and died five days later, the Gaertner bacillus 
being recovered post-mortem. 

The question of the poisonous properties of tainted meat 
is discussed in Chapter VII. 

While no changes are noticeable in most cases to the un- 
trained observer, in a minority of outbreaks some peculiari- 
ties such as objectionable flavour, heavy odour, moister and 
softer condition, etc., have been mentioned even in outbreaks 
definitely traced to Gaertner group bacilli. These, however, 
are the exception, indeed the rare exception, not the 
rule. 

Nature of the food acting as the vehicle of infection. The 
great majority are spread by meat foods. In the 112 British 
outbreaks set out in Addendum I, in one particulars are not 
available as to the food or animal from which derived. In 
twenty-one the vehicle was a non-flesh food, i.e. milk nine, 
cream one, ice-cream six, potatoes two (one only probably), 
pineapple jelly one, canned peaches one, rice cooked in fat 
one. The remaining ninety were all spread by flesh foods as 
set out in the following table : 



54 



FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING 
Table II. 



[CH, 



Nature of the Food 


Pig 


Ox or Cow 


'k^ 


Calf 


Fowl 


Fish 


Other 
animals 


Animal 
unnamed 


Total 


Brawn (and potted meat) 


iiW 


3(&) 


2 


iW 


I 






I 


19 


Meat pies 


9 


3 


l(<^) 


3 








I 


17 


Brawn and meat pies 


I 
















I 


Meat (pork, ham, beef, etc.) 


7 


8 


1(e) 




I 


4(^) 


^(J) 


2 


27 


Tinned 


I 


9 








JU) 




2*) 


19 


Sausages 


I 














I 


2 


Pickled 




I 














I 


Internal or special organs 


3(0 


I (udder) 














4 




33 


25 


4 


4 


2 


II 


4 


7 


go 



(a) one with pork also. (6) one "home pressed beef." 

(c) pressed veal. (c?) with potted meat. (e) ham and beef. 

(/) rabbit, goose, shrimps and sheep (possibly), one of each. 

ig) one fresh salmon, one kipper, one fried fish, one "fish." 

(j) six tinned salmon, one tinned herring. (k) both tongues. 

(/) all chitterlings. 

In forty-four continental outbreaks mentioned in the 
writer's Report to the Local Government Board, very 
similar findings were recorded. In three the vehicle was not 
meat (tinned beans two, pudding one). The others were 
distributed as follows : 

Table III. 



Nature of the Food 


Pig 


Ox or 
Cow 


Pig& 

Ox 


Calf 


Fish 


Horse Sheep 


Animal 
unnamed 


Total 


Flesh 

Chopped meat 
Sausages 
Other parts 
Not stated 


4 

2 

3 

I 


lO 

I 

I 


I 
2 


3 

I 

I 


2 


2 
I 

2 


I 


I 

2 


21 

5 
ID 

3 

2 




1 

lO ^ 12 


3 


5 


2 


5 


I 


3 


41 



These tables show that in 68-8 per cent, of the British and 
6 1 per cent, of the continental, where animal food was the 
vehicle, the animal was pig or ox. The almost complete 
absence of the sheep is very striking. In the one outbreak 
recorded in the British series which is attributed to mutton, 
the etiological relationship was very doubtful. In one other 
of these outbreaks (Surbiton, No. 23) some ribs of lamb 
appear to have been also secondarily affected. 

When the nature of the food carrying the infection is 



V] FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING 55 

considered it is at once obvious what a large proportion are 
due to some form of prepared meat food. Of the ninety 
British outbreaks spread by meat foods, in 41 per cent, 
the vehicle was brawn or meat pies, and in 21 per cent, 
tinned meat or fish. Fifty-nine out of the whole, or almost 
exactly two-thirds, were spread by such prepared foods, while 
three further cases were due to chitterlings. When the 
twenty-seven remaining cases are considered in detail it is 
found that in a good many of these the food was not simply 
the freshly cooked meat. They include several instances in 
which the meat was stuffed before roasting, in others it was 
twice cooked and was only harmful after standing and being 
warmed up next day, in others the meat was ham or other 
forms which are really prepared foods. In a good number 
the particulars recorded are very indefinite and inadequate. 
When allowance is made for this and the other points men- 
tioned it is evident that the number of cases in which the 
meat food was not subjected to some special form of prepara- 
tion other than simple cooking is a very small proportion of 
the whole. 

Apart from tinned fish the number of cases ascribed to 
fish is small, and in view of the considerable possibilities of 
contamination smaller than might be expected. A number 
of continental outbreaks have however been described, for 
example, Ulrich (1906, several kinds of fish), Abraham (1906, 
pike), Reinhold (1912, halibut) and Miiller (1914, fried eels). 

The incidence on milk and its relation to disease of the cow 
is dealt with on page 161. 

Bacteria detected in food poisoning outbreaks. In the British 
outbreaks analysed and set out in the table (Addendum I) 
it will be noted that Gaertner group bacilli were isolated in 
a large number of cases. Excluding outbreaks reported 
before 1890, when bacteriological technique was not well 
advanced, and thirty-five outbreaks in which no bacterio- 
logical examinations at all were made, the results in the re- 
maining sixty- two outbreaks were as follows : 

Gaertner group bacilli detected ... ... ... ... =43 

No Gaertner bacilli found : 

Very incomplete bacteriological examination =9 

More extensive ... ... ... ... ... ... =10 



56 FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING [CH. 

The nine outbreaks with very incomplete bacteriological 
examination hardly merit further consideration as the ex- 
aminations made were, in most cases, most inadequate, and 
Gaertner group bacilli if present would readily be missed. 

In the majority of the ten outbreaks in which a fairly 
complete bacteriological examination was made but no 
Gaertner group bacilli were isolated, no examinations were 
made from any of the patients, but were confined to an 
investigation of the supposed peccant material. For several 
of these there was some doubt as to whether the food sub- 
mitted for examination was the same as that which caused 
the illness. For example, in the Cambridge (1914) outbreak 
due to fresh salmon, three fish were cooked weighing sixty 
pounds and although the salmon left over after the feast 
was submitted for examination it may well have been 
derived from a non-infected fish since only 95 out of 196 
(48 per cent.) who consumed the salmon were attacked. No 
specimens from sufferers were examined. In another of 
these ten outbreaks (No. 60) the steak and kidney pie ex- 
amined by the writer was one of a batch of four, of which 
two only had been eaten with harmful results, and since no 
part of the pie examined had been consumed it may possibly 
have been free from the bacilli which were. evidently present 
in the other two. In several of the cases no agglutination 
reactions with the blood of the patients were carried out. 

In one of these outbreaks (Westminster, No. 99) agglutina- 
tion tests were carried out and three out of six sera specimens 
from patients agglutinated Gaertner group bacilli, so that 
this outbreak was probably due to Gaertner toxins, the 
negative results in the other cases being due to smallness of 
the dose of toxins. This outbreak is not included as due to 
this group as there is this element of doubt. 

In outbreak No. 107 (Glasgow) the bacteriological ex- 
amination was negative and the outbreak was ascribed to 
solanine (see page 145). 

In but few of these outbreaks was a complete examination 
made. It is further noteworthy that in only one of these 
ten outbreaks was there a fatal case (No. 99) and this was 
the one, as mentioned above, which was probably due to 



V] FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING 57 

Gaertner infection, while no bacteriological examinations at 
all were made of the organs of the fatal case. Out of thirty 
in the series of ninety-seven outbreaks since 1890 in which 
deaths resulted and in which a bacteriological examination 
was made, in twenty-eight Gaertner group bacilli were de- 
tected. In one case the bacteriological examination was 
negative, the outbreak being ascribed to solanine, while the 
remaining case was the Westminster outbreak, which was 
probably a Gaertner infection. 

While this may be advanced by some as showing that the 
less severe outbreaks are not always due to Gaertner group 
bacilli it should be remembered that the true bacterial 
cause of any outbreak of food poisoning is far more likely to 
be ascertained if the organs of fatal cases are available for 
examination. The failure to find Gaertner bacilli in cases in 
which there were no deaths may, in at least many outbreaks, 
be ascribed to the unsatisfactory nature of the material 
available for examination. The bacteriological examination 
of the incriminated food itself may be difficult and unsatis- 
factory, in part due to delay in transmission to the bacterio- 
logist, in part to the growth of other organisms which may 
obscure or even totally eliminate the bacillus reponsible for 
the outbreak, and in part to the possibility that the food 
submitted for examination is either not part of that incrimi- 
nated or that the particular portion selected for examination 
is free from the bacilli concerned in the outbreak. 

In no instance was it possible to advance proof that any 
other bacillus was the cause of the outbreak of food poisoning. 

While therefore out of the sixty-two outbreaks in which a 
bacteriological examination was made Gaertner group bacilli 
were only detected forty-three times (70 per cent.), in but 
few of the remaining attacks was a complete and satisfactory 
examination made, and it cannot be doubted that the per- 
centage would be much higher if more thorough and extensive 
investigations had been done. 

In every one of the forty-one continental outbreaks set 
out in Table III one or other member of the Gaertner group 
of bacilli was isolated. 

These figures suggest that outbreaks of food poisoning and 



58 FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING [CH. 

food infections are in the main due to the activities of one 
or another member of the Gaertner group and that the share 
of other bacilH is neghgible, at least as regards definite wide- 
spread outbreaks. As regards the indefinite attacks of illness 
with food poisoning symptoms, usually limited to one or two 
families or even to one or two individuals, which follow the 
consumption of certain articles of food, our knowledge as to 
causation is very inadequate since so few are fully investi- 
gated. Since when they are examined a considerable pro- 
portion is found to be due to Gaertner group bacilli we are 
justified in assuming that at least many of these have an 
etiology similar to the more definite outbreaks. 

From the point of view of causation we can divide food 
poisoning outbreaks of bacterial origin into three groups : 

(a) Those due to Gaertner group bacilli — the great majority 
of the large outbreaks. 

(b) Cases of botulism. An insignificant group due to B. 
hotulinus. 

(c) Those due to the toxic action of bacteria other than 
the above. 

Of the third group the most important place is usually 
ascribed to putrefactive bacteria such as B. coli and B. 
proteus. The characters of the Gaertner group are considered 
in Chapter VI, botulism in Chapter IX, and the relationship 
of putrefactive bacteria to food poisoning in Chapter VII. 
In the present chapter there only remains to be considered 
the evidence incriminating other bacteria as a cause of food 
poisoning. 

Apart from its activities as a putrefactive bacillus some 
suspicion and many unfounded assertions have gathered 
round B. coli as a cause of food poisoning. Inasmuch as the 
B. coli group (using the expression in a comprehensive sense 
to include B. coli communis and a number of allied forms) 
comprises organisms of very varying virulence, some of 
which may be decidedly pathogenic to man, it is a quite 
possible supposition. 

On the other hand in none of the extensive series of out- 
breaks in this country which the writer has studied could 
any member of this group of organisms be claimed as the 



V] FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING 59 

cause. They were frequently present in the foodstuffs ex- 
amined but no etiological connection was established. Their 
being present is of no significance since they are usually 
present in large numbers in identical but non-poisonous food- 
stuffs (ice-cream, brawn, etc.). 

In some of the earlier continental outbreaks, for example, 
Griinthal (1895) and Gliickstadt (1896), B. coli is ascribed 
as the cause, but as Fischer (1902) points out, and as is obvious 
from the records, the proof is most incomplete. The associa- 
tion of this organism with unfit cheese is better substantiated 
(see p. 138). 

Other bacilli have been suggested in individual outbreaks. 

Parkes (1905) describes an interesting series of cases of 
diarrhoea which continually occurred amongst the inmates 
of a large country mansion. The larder had recently been 
altered, and since then the meat and some other foods kept 
in the larder showed a pink growth. This was examined and 
identified as B. prodigiosus. The larder was cleaned out 
and disinfected and subsequently there was no diarrhoea or 
B. prodigiosus growth. As Parkes himself is careful to point 
out the chain of evidence is incomplete and is only suggestive. 

B. prodigiosus is not, in general, a pathogenic organism, 
and indeed has been used extensively to inoculate the human 
mouth in experiments, and this without any harm. On the 
other hand Woodward and Clarke [Lancet, 1913, clxxxiv. 
314) describe a case in which this bacillus was found as 
the probable cause of chronic cough and offensive sputum. 

Rappin (1913) under the name B. hypertoxicus describes 
an organism to which he ascribes an outbreak of food 
poisoning affecting twenty persons, with one death, the 
vehicle being clotted cream and milk. The characters given 
in the paper are indefinite, but it was lactose positive and 
probably a variety of B. coli. A study of the paper shows 
that the evidence that the organism had anything to do 
with the outbreak is of the weakest, but the outbreak is 
mentioned here since Rappin also states that he has isolated 
this bacillus from other cases in the course of an epidemic of 
similar illness in another place. B. faecalis alkaligenes has 
now been established as a cause of illness of the type of 



6o FEATURES OF FOOD POISONING [CH. V 

typhoid fever under certain conditions^, while Ridder (1909) 
has shown it to be the probable cause of a single sporadic 
case of gastro-enteritis following the consumption of some 
pickled and smoked pork, but the writer has been unable to 
find any evidence connecting it with an outbreak of food 
poisoning. 

While therefore there is a likelihood, or at least a possi- 
bility, that individual cases and even widespread outbreaks 
may be due to B. coli or bacilli other than those of the 
Gaertner group, there is no clear evidence connecting them 
with any definite outbreaks, and records of such cases require 
to be very clearly demonstrated before they can be accepted. 



REFERENCES. 

To save repetition the References for Chapters V, VI and X are 
given together at the end of Chapter X. 

* For example see Rochaix and Marotte, 1916, Compt. vend, de la Soc. 
de Biologic, lxxix. 316, and vShearman and Moorhead, 19 16, Brit. Med. 
Jcurn. II. 893. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE GAERTNER, OR SALMONELLA, GROUP OF 
BACTERIA (IN RELATION TO FOOD POISONING) 

The colon-typhoid group of bacteria is one of great size and 
complexity and may be clarified in various ways. Con- 
tained in it and intermediate between B. typhosus at one end 
and the B. coli family at the other is the important and fairly 
distinctive series of organisms, the Gaertner (or Salmonella) 
group or, as it is frequently called, the Paratyphoid- Enteri- 
tidis group. 

The following characteristics are common to all members 
of the Gaertner group: short, sporeless bacilli, with rounded 
ends, motile and usually markedly motile, gram negative; 
grow on gelatine as a white or translucent growth without 
liquefaction; produce at first some acid in litmus milk then 
after a few days incubation at 37° C. (the exact time may 
vary with different strains) marked alkali production; milk 
is never clotted; do not produce indol; glucose and mannite 
are fermented with the production of acid and gas, while 
lactose and saccharose are not fermented, neither acid nor 
gas being produced. 

B. paratyphosus A does not produce alkalinity in milk 
when the incubation period is not prolonged but is usually 
considered a member of the group. As regards this point a 
number of observers (for example, Bradley (1912), Krum- 
wiede, Pratt and Kohn (1916 h) and Jordan (1917)) have 
recently shown that this difference in milk between the 
Paratyphoid A and B strains is one of degree only and that, 
given a sufficient period of observation, many if not all A 
strains will produce alkalinity in milk. 

Jordan, for instance, found that twenty A strains all 
remained more acid than the control tube for nearly two 
weeks, but in about fourteen to fifteen days at 37° C. many 
approximated to the reaction of the control and then became 
progressively alkaline. After about five weeks the alkalinity 



62 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

was distinct but even then was considerably less than for B 
strains. 

Jordan (1918 h) in a later paper has further studied this 
point. He obtained the interesting result that the A strains 
multiply much less rapidly than the B strains in milk and 
considers that the differences between the A and B types 
in rapidity of alkali formation in milk is largely, if not 
altogether, a numerical relation due to gradations in the 
amount and rate of multiplication. 

On the other hand investigators have recently advanced 
another cultural test to distinguish the A and B types. 
Krumwiede, Pratt and Kohn (1916 a), confirming an earlier 
observation of Ford (1905), found that all B. paratyphosus A 
strains failed to ferment xylose, unlike the enter itidis-para- 
typhoid B strains. Weiss obtained the same results and so 
has Jordan. 

Some authors describe the production of indol by these 
bacilli, but a large number of strains from many different 
sources tested by the writer always yielded negative results, 
which is in accord with the work of Jordan and many other 
workers. 

The group can be sub-divided into two sub-groups : 

A. True Gaertner bacilli. 

B. Para-Gaertner bacilli. 

The true Gaertner bacilli are for the most part culturally 
indistinguishable and in addition to the above characters 
they ferment dulcite, maltose, galactose, laevulose, and 
xylose, while they do not ferment salicin, raffinose or glycer- 
ine. In glycerine they may produce a little acid, but never 
gas. 

The writer has given the name of para-Gaertner bacilli to 
a number of organisms, for the most part unnamed, which 
appear to be not uncommon in the healthy animal and 
human intestine, and which are of interest on account of 
their close resemblance to the true pathogenic members. He 
first drew attention to their presence in a series of Reports 
to the Local Government Board (1906-7, 1907-8, 1908-9), 
finding them in quite small numbers in the human intestine 
but rather more abundant in the healthy animal intestine. 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 63 

They can be distinguished culturally by an extended series 
of fermentation tests, especially of dulcite and salicin. They 
frequently fail to ferment dulcite while fermenting salicin, 
the exact opposite of the true strains. That these differences 
are real and distinctive is shown by the fact that these 
strains fail to be agglutinated by the sera of animals im- 
munized by the different types of true Gaertner bacilli, 
while the sera of animals injected with repeated doses of 
these para-Gaertner strains do not agglutinate the true 
types. They are non-pathogenic and do not produce heat- 
resisting toxins. 

The true Gaertner strains can be further sub-divided by 
means of serological tests. The strains so far isolated, with 
a few unimportant exceptions, can be divided into three 
types, but others may become known. These are : 

{a) B. enteritidis. Includes not only many of the Gaertner 
bacilli isolated from food poisoning outbreaks but also 
several of the rat viruses (such as Danysz bacillus) and some 
strains of B. typhi murium. Agglutination tests easily 
differentiate this bacillus from the other types. 

[h] B. paratyphosus B. The organism causing para- 
typhoid fever of the B type and also found in the human 
intestine in carrier cases. 

(c) B. suipestifer. Includes a number of the food poisoning 
bacilli, some B. typhi murium strains and probably B. 
psittacosis. The strains isolated from cases of swine fever 
(hog cholera) belong to this group. Many strains from these 
cases have been labelled B. suipestifer while showing dis- 
tinct cultural differences and some confusion has resulted. 
It should only be applied to bacteria with the above cultural 
characters. 

In nearly all German literature the B. suipestifer and 
B. paratyphosus B sub-groups are considered to be identical 
and only two sub-types are recognized. By agglutination 
and especially by absorption tests it is, however, possible to 
distinguish definitely between these two strains (Bainbridge, 
Savage, etc.). This view has recently been confirmed by the 
extended cultural, agglutination and absorption tests of 
Krumwiede, Kohn and Valentine (1918). 



64 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

As mentioned above all these strains are usually considered 
to be culturally identical, but Jordan (1917) in a recent 
valuable comparative study of strains of Gaertner group 
organisms from different sources found cultural differences 
in the strains isolated from diseased swine fever pigs. These 
B. suipestifer organisms in his hands attacked arabinose and 
dulcite slowly or not at all, both substances being fermented 
rapidly by the other sub-groups. Jordan and Victorson (1917) 
found that the same B. suipestifer strains failed to blacken 
lead acetate paper, a characteristic quality of all the B. enteri- 
tidis and B. paratyphosus B organisms. Weiss (1916) also 
records variations as regards the fermentation of inosite. 

Trawinski (1918) studied forty- two 5. suipestifer sir diinsir ova 
an epidemic of swine fever occurring at a pig-depot for swine 
from Poland. The strains isolated all differed culturally 
from B. paratyphosus B only in the fact that they failed to 
ferment dulcite and arabinose and produced acid but no gas 
in sorbite. 

All these strains were isolated from pigs and were there- 
fore of direct animal origin, and these cultural differences do 
not appear to occur with the strains isolated from food 
poisoning outbreaks, and which on cultural and serological 
tests are called B. suipestifer as they can be distinguished 
from B. paratyphosus B. If these conclusions as to cultural 
differences are confirmed it may be necessary to sub-divide 
the true Gaertner strains into four instead of three sub- 
groups, i.e. B. enteritidis, B. paratyphosus B, B. aertrycke 
and B. suipestifer, the B. suipestifer group mentioned on page 
63 being divided into true B. suipestifer strains with the 
cultural differences shown by Jordan and of purely porcine 
origin, and B. aertrycke strains, those culturally identical with 
B. paratyphosus B but of human origin and distinguishable 
by agglutination and absorption tests. 

A further point in connection with the cultural characters 
of this group is the possibility of variation of cultural and 
biological characters. 

Penfold (191 1 ) has drawn attention to the possibility of 
obtaining considerable variability in the gas-forming powers 
of intestinal bacteria and by using special means obtained a 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 65 

diminution of the gas-producing power of B. enteritidis. 
These methods, however, were more or less artificial and 
can hardly compare with those produced under more or less 
natural conditions. 

Ten Broeck (1916) records particulars of a hog-cholera 
strain [B. siiipestifer) which after passage through a series 
of rabbits produced acid, but failed to form gas, from dulcite, 
mannite, maltose, glucose, galactose and laevulose, a feature 
which persisted over a period of eighteen months in spite of 
varied attempts to induce the strain to revert to its original 
characters. In pathogenic and agglutination properties' it 
was unaltered from the original. 

Dorset, Moore, Bock and others have recorded strains of 
B. suipestifer which failed to ferment glucose with gas pro- 
duction. 

The writer (Savage and Forbes, 1918) in an extensive food 
poisoning outbreak due to fried fish isolated a strain which 
on its other characters was identical with B. enteritidis, but 
which when isolated, both from the fatal case and from the 
human carrier causing the outbreak, failed to produce gas 
in mannite and dulcite, and only produced a single bubble 
of gas in glucose; acid was however produced. Passage 
through a guinea-pig failed to alter these abnormalities. 
After artificial cultivation in litmus milk and other media 
for several weeks moderate gas production with glucose 
and dulcite and well-marked gas production in mannite 
was obtained. 

While therefore the cultural characters of this group are 
in general very definite and well marked there may occasion- 
ally be met with some abnormalities as regards fermentation 
properties, chiefly or entirely in the direction of a temporary 
suppression or retardation. 

Hutchens and Tulloch (19 14) isolated an organism from 
yeast from a brewery culturally identical with B. para- 
typhosus B which showed anomalous agglutination and ab- 
sorption reactions. While, in general, these tests are definite, 
anomalies are occasionally met with. 



F. p. 



66 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

Gaertner group bacilli as disease-producing organisms. 

These organisms are etiologically associated with a number 
of diseases and as this relationship is of very great importance 
in connection with the causation of food poisoning, detailed 
consideration of the subject is necessary. 

Disease in man. Apart from certain exceptional cases 
these organisms have been found associated with only two 
conditions, viz., cases of paratyphoid fever and outbreaks of 
food poisoning. 

It is only comparatively recently that paratyphoid fever 
has been separated from enteric fever (for example, two 
cases described by the writer in 1905 were amongst the 
earliest recorded cases in this country), but it is now well 
recognized as a separate disease. The clinical features are 
nearly indistinguishable from enteric fever, being chiefly 
characterised by a lessened severity, and to distinguish the 
two diseases bacteriological tests are necessary. Like enteric 
fever there is no evidence that this disease affects the lower 
animals. A proportion of the cases are due to B. paratyphosus 

A, but the majority (at least in Europe) are due to B. para- 
typhosus B. 

There are very few instances in which B. enteritidis has 
been found to cause human disease, apart from food poisoning 
outbreaks. Two in this country may be mentioned. 

Batten and Forbes (1908) describe two cases of infection 
of infants with B. enteritidis. They suffered from diarrhoea 
and vomiting with considerable fever, the symptoms per- 
sisting for a number of weeks and ending fatally in both 
instances. The two cases were quite unconnected and no 
evidence was available as to how they became infected. 
Both had been fed upon cow's milk and the bacilli may have 
gained access from this source. 

Dean (1911) has described a case of suppurative chole- 
cystitis with cholelithiasis in a woman of sixty-one years. 

B. enteritidis was isolated from the pus, gall bladder and 
stools. There was no history of acute food poisoning. The 
serum of the patient agglutinated the bacillus in low dilution. 
The case is of interest as the bacilli were excreted intermit- 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 67 

tently in the excreta in the same way as in typhoid and 
paratyphoid fever carriers. 

Disease in animals. In animals members of the Gaertner 
group appear to play a considerable disease-producing role 
and in this way are sharply separated from the allied typhoid 
bacillus which is incapable, so far as is known, of producing 
a natural disease in animals. The writer has been at some 
labour to investigate the literature, in view of its importance 
in relation to food poisoning, but in order not to obscure the 
balanced presentation of the subject the details are relegated 
to an Addendum (No. II) to this chapter, only a general 
account being given here. 

In swine fever organisms of this group [B. suipestifer) have 
been found in a variable proportion of cases, the actual per- 
centages ranging from o to 50 or over, not as the cause of 
the disease, but associated with the filterable virus generally 
accepted as the primary cause. An accurate bacteriological 
classification has not always been adhered to and in some 
cases the organisms found cannot be accepted as members 
of the group. 

Members of this group of bacilli have also been isolated 
from calves associated with a number of diseased conditions, 
especially septicaemia and calf dysentery. 

As long ago as 1876 Bollinger recognized the frequent 
association of outbreaks of food poisoning in man with the 
consumption of the meat of animals suffering from pyaemia 
and septicaemic conditions, and Gaertner group bacilli have 
been isolated from cows suffering from udder inflammation 
and occasionally from septic conditions or enteritis in the 
domestic animals generally. 

In horses they have been found by several observers 
associated with outbreaks of abortion in mares, although 
they are not the common cause of this condition. 

In a good many instances they have caused epidemics of 
disease in birds, such as parrots, canaries, pigeons and 
finches. 

They are a not uncommon cause of disease in rats and 
mice, and to a lesser extent amongst other small rodents, 
causing widespread epidemics. 

5—2 



68 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

While it is clear from the above summary that the Gaertner 
group of bacilli are responsible for a considerable amount of 
disease in animals as in man, a careful study of the individual 
outbreaks makes it evident that while they do play a disease- 
producing role in animals they are not the most common or 
even the most usual cause of the pathological condition with 
which they are associated. They occur as infrequent causes 
of the condition while in many cases they may only exert 
a secondary disease-producing effect. This important point 
will be considered further when the causation of food poison- 
ing outbreaks is dealt with in Chapter X. 

Distribution of Gaertner group bacilli in nature 
apart from pathological conditions. 

Not a little of the existing deficiencies in our knowledge as 
to the exact causes and sources of infection in food poisoning 
outbreaks are due to the conception, largely based in the 
writer's view on conclusions from faulty observations in 
Germany, that this group of bacilli are natural intestinal 
inhabitants of the domestic animals and even of man. The 
writer started his investigations upon the causation of food 
poisoning in 1905 with this as a possible hypothesis and 
starting point, but detailed searching investigations soon 
convinced him of its inaccuracy, while the detection of the 
para-Gaertner bacilli furnished a feasible explanation of 
where these continental workers had gone astray, as for the 
most part these organisms would be included by them as 
true Gaertner group bacilli. 

This question is of such great significance in connection 
with the sources of infection in food poisoning outbreaks, 
while some of the results have been so discrepant, that it is 
necessary to discuss it in considerable detail. To avoid 
overloading the text proper with details, the results of the 
different investigations are set out in a separate Addendum 
(No. Ill), leaving to be included here a general summary of 
the facts obtained. The available data as to distribution 
may be conveniently grouped as follows: in the human 
intestine, in the animal intestine, in fresh and prepared 
meat. 



VI ] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 69 

(a) In the human intestine. While a few of the earher 
German investigators record the presence of Gaertner group 
bacilU in the excreta of healthy persons, the majority of 
recent German workers have failed to find these bacilli apart 
from actual cases of disease, or persons acting as carriers 
after infection. All English investigators have been unable 
to find these bacilli in the contents of healthy human excreta, 
except in extremely rare instances. 

The available data justifies the conclusion that B. para- 
typhosus B and other members of the group are not present 
in the normal healthy human intestine, or even in patho- 
logical conditions, unless the disease is paratyphoid fever or 
other condition in which these bacilli play a disease-producing 
role. When therefore they are found they suggest either the 
existence of a Gaertner caused disease or that the person is 
acting as a carrier of these bacilli after infection. 

[b) In the animal intestine. An extended series of investi- 
gations has been carried out. The earlier continental workers 
claimed to have found these bacilli in considerable numbers 
in the intestine of quite healthy food producing animals and 
founded upon their work it became widely accepted that 
these bacilli were normal inhabitants of the animal intestine, 
at least of some animals. The writer and others, however, 
demonstrated that this view could not be maintained and 
that the claim of the ubiquitous presence of these organisms 
in the animal gut was probably due to an insufficient series 
of differentiating tests being carried out, and that when 
proper steps were taken to exclude these para-Gaertner 
forms, genuine Gaertner bacilli were not found. Later con- 
tinental investigations with better technique have failed to 
find these bacilli in any numbers and the balance of evidence 
may be said to show conclusively that these bacilli are not 
natural inhabitants of the animals- used for food and that 
they are not found more frequently than can be accounted 
for on the supposition that their presence is due to an actual 
case of disease or the carrier state after infection. 

In view of the extensive contamination of food by rats 
and mice considerable interest centres in the question as to 
how far members of this group of organisms are present in 



70 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

these animals and some writers have suggested that they 
may be the natural reservoir for these bacilli. Here again, 
however, investigations lead to the conclusion that these 
organisms are not natural inhabitants and do not occur in 
a higher percentage than can be accounted for on the sup- 
position of a carrier state in a class of animals which are 
very susceptible to infection from members of this group. 

(c) In meat, particularly prepared meat. A large number 
of samples of such foods have been examined and the results 
show that while members of this group of bacilli are nearly 
always absent they are very occasionally found to be present, 
probably due to contamination from an animal case or 
carrier, or in rare instances from a human carrier. Such 
meat must be regarded as a potential source of disease. 

The general result of all these investigations, as the writer 
construes them, is that the Gaertner group of bacilli are 
important causes of disease in both man and the lower 
animals, but that these organisms are not found under 
healthy normal conditions. For example, they cannot like 
B. coli, or some of the alHed non-lactose fermenting strains, 
be accepted as normal inhabitants of the intestine, but like 
B. typhosus they only occur either associated with definite 
disease or in the carrier state, as the result of persistence 
after the pathological condition has subsided or after a 
definite infection, which, however, may have been too slight 
to have set up recognizable objective symptoms. 

Special characters of the Gaertner group in relation 
to food poisoning. 

There are several properties possessed by this group of 
bacilli which are probably of considerable practical import- 
ance and which throw a good deal of light upon a number 
of perplexing points in connection with the methods of infec- 
tion by the group. 

{a) Variable pathogenicity. When first isolated from the 
animal body these bacilli usually possess considerable patho- 
genicity towards the lower animals, especially when inocu- 
lation methods are employed. This applies to all three 
varieties and no essential differences are observable between 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 7 1 

the different members. Most observers arc agreed that 
virulence is rather rapidly lost when the bacilli are kept 
under artificial conditions, although considerable variability 
is shown with different strains. There is some discrepancy 
of evidence as to how far the virulence of such strains can 
be restored by special cultural metho'ds or by animal passage. 
Gaertner noted that while the infective power of the bacillus 
may not be greatly impaired, the organism rather rapidly 
loses its power of producing toxins, an observation confirmed 
by later observers. Hoist found, using the bacillus isolated 
by him from the Gaustad Asylum outbreak, that the toxin- 
producing capacity, after rapidly diminishing, could be 
restored by several passages of the bacillus through pigeons. 
Van Ermengem found that the bacillus isolated by him from 
the Moorseele outbreak {B. enteritidis) behaved in the same 
way. Roily found that the Gaertner organism isolated by him in 
connection with an outbreak from tinned beans was harmless 
to mice by feeding but caused death in 4-7 days after passage 
through three mice. Trautmann obtained an increase of 
virulence by growth upon sterilized meat or upon pigeon 
blood agar and a diminution when grown upon ordinary 
agar, while he obtained decrease of virulence by animal 
passage. Xylander (1908a) found an increase followed by a 
decrease by animal passage. Kosche (1906) found an increase 
by intracranial rabbit passage. Heuser, using bacilli of the 
hog-cholera group, found distinct increase of virulence by 
animal passage through rats, but did not obtain a bacillus 
capable of causing infection by feeding. Smith and Reagh 
(1903) passed a hog-cholera strain through a series of fourteen 
rabbits and increased its virulence TO,ooo-fold(from o-i c.c). 
Ten Broeck passed another hog-cholera strain through 
eleven rabbits and increased its virulence a thousand times 
for subcutaneous inoculation, but unfortunately no feeding 
experiments were recorded. 

The strains which have been employed for exterminating 
rats and mice (see p. 176) differ in no cultural or agglutination 
qualities from true Gaertner group bacilli, and are now con- 
sidered to be identical with them except that they show, for 
the most part, low pathogenicity to human beings. To this 



72 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

fact must be ascribed the comparatively few cases of human 
infection, compared with the abundant opportunities af- 
forded. Whether, on the other hand, these bacilH can acquire 
markedly increased virulence for man and so be capable of 
originating definite disease symptoms is an important point 
upon which we possess very little evidence. 

Another point of considerable significance is the great 
variability met with when the method of infection is by 
feeding. Evidence of infection of animals by feeding is 
mentioned in connection with a number of outbreaks of 
which the following may be mentioned as examples. The 
bacilli isolated from the outbreaks at Wrexham, St Annes- 
on-the-Sea, and Accrington when used to feed mice or guinea- 
pigs caused infection and death. In the Partick outbreak in 
one house the cat ate a good deal of the infected meat. 
The animal suffered from extreme sickness, vomiting and 
purging, and continued after the subsidence of the acute 
symptoms in a lethargic state for several days. In connection 
with the Tollesbury outbreak a dog ate some of the infected 
brawn and was taken ill, but recovered. 

Pottevin (1905) carried out a careful experiment with a 
cat, feeding it with milk in which a bacillus, which had caused 
a food poisoning outbreak, had been grown for forty-eight 
hours. The cat became ill and suffered from diarrhoea for 
three weeks then gradually recovered. The bacillus was 
isolated from the excreta for over a month while the serum 
of the cat at the end of the illness developed well-marked 
powers of agglutination against this bacillus. 

On the other hand the bacilli isolated by the writer from 
the Murrow outbreak and by McWeeney from the Limerick 
outbreak, although both virulent to laboratory animals by 
injection, did not cause infection by feeding, and the same 
fact is recorded in other outbreaks. 

Kutscher and Meinicke (igo6) carried out a large series of 
feeding experiments, with, in general, negative results. 
Negative results were obtained with rats, rabbits, dogs and 
goats fed with B. paratyphosus B. Two sheep fed with the 
same bacillus showed a rise of temperature but no other 
definite symptoms. Ten guinea-pigs fed did not show any 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 73 

symptoms but developed an active immunity against this 
bacillus. Feeding experiments with white and grey mice 
were usually negative but two particular strains constantly 
killed white mice in from eight to fourteen days. It was not 
found possible to raise the virulence for feeding by animal 
passage. Two 2-3 weeks old calves were made violently ill 
with diarrhoea, temperature elevation, etc., but completely 
recovered, while they did not develop agglutination proper- 
ties nor could the bacilli be recovered from the foetid shmy 
stools. 

Reinhardt and Seibold (1912 a) fed a goat with a strain 
of B. enteritidis which was very virulent to goats when 
injected intraperitoneally into the udder or knee joint, and 
which previously had been passed through four goats. Some 
slight rise of temperature was noted but there was no notice- 
able effect upon the health of the animals and when killed 
there were no lesions, while the organs were sterile. The 
dose given was the whole of an agar culture every day for 
five days. 

The same authors give an interesting instance of a case of 
natural infection which throws light upon the way these 
diseases may be spread. A goat was infected by the injection 
of an emulsion of four agar cultures into the uterus, this 
causing marked illness. The three kids of this goat born two 
days before the inoculation were removed from their mother 
but were brought back in the evenings and drank her milk. 
Two remained unaffected but the third sickened eight days 
after the mother was infected and died three days later, 
showing gastritis and duodenal catarrh post mortem. The 
bacillus was readily isolated from the internal organs. 

A very interesting instance of human infection apart from 
a food poisoning outbreak is recorded by Meyer (1916). A 
man aged twenty-six years was infected in connection with 
the feeding of a calf with sterilized milk containing a B. enteri- 
tidis strain, isolated from a calf naturally infected with this 
bacillus. After an incubation period of ten to twelve hours 
he was attacked with severe abdominal cramps, nausea, 
severe diarrhoea, flatulence, headache and some rise of 
temperature. The symptoms persisted for several days, but 



74 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

he recovered completely within a week. The bacillus was 
readily isolated from his excreta while he developed agglu- 
tinins against this organism. Several other men ran an equal 
risk of being infected and Meyer considers that the important 
predisposing factor was that this man had been and was at 
the time of infection suffering from a chronic mucous colitis. 
These variable feeding results are recorded in some detail 
since we are dealing with a disease which invariably is 
acquired by way of the mouth, and which exerts its effects 
mainly upon the alimentary tract. It may be that the vehicle 
of infection is of importance and that infection is more likely 
to result when introduced upon foodstuffs than when the 
naked bacilli are given, also whether or no the bacilli are 
introduced with their specific toxins may affect the likelihood 
of actual infection resulting. 

(b) Nature of the toxins. A further point of importance is 
the nature of the toxins produced by these baciUi. The ex- 
perimental data is discrepant as to whether these bacilli join 
the very small band of organisms which produce true toxins 
(extra-cellular) or whether the toxins are contained in the 
bodies of the bacilli (endo-toxins). Cathcart, for example, as 
well as a number of other workers, such as Brion and Kayser, 
Kutscher and Meinicke, Levy and Fornet, found no evidence 
of soluble toxins, while others such as Uhlenhuth, Zwick 
and Weichel found evidence of toxic bodies in filtrates. One 
of the most recent investigations is by Ecker (19 17), which 
may be consulted for a review of the literature, who, working 
with B. paratypkosMS B, concluded that in broth cultures 
soluble toxic substances are produced within twenty-four 
hours by some strains of this organism. He found that these 
toxic substances produced constant pathological effects and 
that they were of the nature of true soluble toxins, inasmuch 
as they stimulate the formation of antitoxins. The toxic 
substances are comparatively thermostable since they resist 
boiling for five minutes at 100° C. 

(c) Heat resistance. A further point of great interest is the 
resistance of members of this group to heat. They all behave 
alike, and being non-sporing bacilli are fairly easily killed, a 
comparatively short exposure (thirty minutes) at 60° C. 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 75 

being sufficient to ensure their destruction. Their toxins, on 
the other hand, are characteristically heat-resistant. This 
was first shown by Gaertner with the original B. enteritidis 
isolated by him, and has since been confirmed by very 
numerous investigators. Van Ermengem, for example, found 
the toxins of his Moorseele bacillus {B. enteritidis) to resist 
heating to ioo° C. or even up to 120° C. Cathcart found 
that both B. enteritidis and B. paratyphosus B toxins with- 
stood heating to 100° C. for thirty minutes. 

As shown by Gaertner, Fischer, Hoist and others, the pro- 
duction of heat-resisting toxins is a property which rapidly 
becomes lost when the bacilli are artificially cultivated out- 
side the animal body. 

This remarkable power of resistance to heat possessed by 
the toxins of this group explains the fairly numerous out- 
breaks which are due to food materials which contain no 
living Gaertner group bacilli. The bacilli are killed during 
the process of preparation for sale, but the pre-formed toxins 
persist in virtue of their heat-resisting properties. 



76 



GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 



[CH. 



<u . 


•i^ . 




n en 


il ^3 




'-' 3 


, "^ aj , , , 


, , , 3 








s-^ 


'll ' ' ' 


1 1 l.-g 


. s ct3 


'^ 9 


rt 


i^ 


o- 


Xi 


H 


^ 


< 



NISI 



■S "4i M 5^ 



O !ll C; CQ 



i|1 : ^Sf.Sf 

■= -•= i dill, fcfc 






o 

p. 


■7^ C/) 


o 


~i-l 


^bC 


M-l a 


o 
be a 


11 


bee 
sail 


-M -^ 


^ CD 


o g'S 


^2 


O !=^ 


Cfl ? rj 



!H P^fflH 



03 

M 

m en en 

^ 2h 2 -^ 

c^ ^H vh rv ra 
OJ O O ^ 



en 






en r< 

'PhTD 

^ o 



O ^ 






moo 




c^ O , 
I I 3 



f^ 



1^ O O vO 



'^ o o 
03 o3 





n 


03 


^ " O 
03 ^ 






^4 



> > 
O O 



!3 r S^ ^ S c2 3 

^ ^ ^ 5 ^ ^i,X! 
<u ^ <ij o <i^ 



CO O M C^ (N C^ Tt-O C^ C^ 

C^CX) COCO tXSCOOOOO |CX)(X) 
I CO 00 



00 CX) 00 00 



Oa^O^O^T^lOO 000000 
cD>co 0000C^0^O^ C^a^O^ 
cococooooocooo OOOOOO 



Q o C 
c3 



be 



o 



^ ^ ^ o ra 






•rv^ ^ ;^ .1 



g d c c 0^ a 2^ 

C O O O ^ Oq=l 

Th fi fi fl S C S 

o o o o J™ o t2 

(1h Jk-1 J^ J^ 



I-l O iH 



lOO t^OO (^ O w 



M ro Tt- lOO t--oo 



VI] 



GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 



n 



^ ^t^ 



oq 05 



I I 



4> 

> 

„ • '55 

^ 8 



cq O^^ OO 



O 05 



0) (U g •_ I 

IH !h ^, O 






f^ 









O I o 






sp:c 






03 



O c! 



1 



'p. 



JH bo 

_, W <D 







Ti 










a 










a 


Ih 




«+H 




>,rt 




<u 




> 


' 




^ 


g 




C 


fi 




rvj 




— - 


O? 


t! 


0) 




F 


OJ 




I-i 






rt 


O 


u; 


rri 


o 


8 


O 

1— 1 


5S 


ii 









o 








Ph 




1^ 




b 


•rH 03 OS 

P4 "U <U c c t3 


S 
c 


«2 

■p.'d 


^^1 


O,^ o o ^ ^ fl 




^^ 




^ O R i S S .2 


^ 


o o 


•SK "1 


fe 


PL^PW 


H: ^ 



M o o o o o 



MO 



+ + 



o 



^ H r^ r^ t^ 



OS 

I <D 

M CO 

O 03 






I 



I.S 



c^ MOO I "p T*^ 

I I I I N M 



I T I 



M 4_, 

o O 
o3 



rj bc Ph 3 



i]j bjO oj 3 

12; o) 



4) ^,^ 

c/2 "—> 






Ph3 



00 00 c^ c^ 

CTi On a\ O 
00 00 00 00 



0^ O O M N N 
0^ O O O O O 
00 0^ (^ On 0^ On 



M Tf IT) lOvC O 
O O O O O O 
On On On On On On 



o o o o o 

On On on On On 






o 

O .y S -d -5 a; 



O bo-ir 






o3g — «T3o300 

-<" ^ oggg 






e 

^ « S C o 
<u o3 .i3 o3 o o3 






o 
bp^ 



CO 

O 
CO !h 

lU o 

O . ^ o3 

'3 Id ^ 
c/5 PQ^ 



0) 



4-' O 

CO • rt 

at! 



Ph 
CO 

H 

P4 

o 
bo 

3 



^ 




'^ 




(1) 








r? 




CO 




n 












a 




a> 








<-> 




^ 




3 




ro 




C 








iH 




n 












c^ 




O 


CO 
2 


_g 


oJ 


-^ 


<u 


4) 


3,^ 


(fi 








n1 


;J 


^ 


Td 




CO 


« 


J3 



78 



GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 



[CH. 



13 














ritidis. 
er. 

etc. (no 
tner). 


^ 

•s 






> 




•o 


fill 1 
III fe 

n3 






OJ 


1 a; 1 


a; 1 


1 '^ 




1 >-*' 


'0 


1 1 1 




'o 




c 


1 C 1 

4-> 


C 1 


§ IH ^03 


1 rt 


ill 




1 a> 


8 


1 1 1 


rt 


(j 




s 


?^ 


(D 
03 


. o3 




a; 




B 


cq fiq cq O 


cq' 




o 


o 


o 


Q30 cq 


^, 




03 



HH 






■ — ' — ■ 






















Animal 

from which 

derived 




^ 






^ X ^ 


X ^ 


^ X 1 X X 


X 1 




bf X 


X 


G 


-^ 1 




o 




CO 


cSoSoa 


50 1 00 


1 




flnO 







'ST 

0) 















0) 












ao -^ 
























c 

V 


gS 












l'^ 




__^ 


MH 


(U 




■a 
J 




riS) 




1 


^ -r. -^ '^ ^ 


S-i !U V 


6 


L 


b£ 

c 

i 

a; 
b/: 

03 


0) 





1 


_ —I ^ 

TJ T3 CD 
<]i u 

G G V 




■5 S S o o o 
H ffl « 0. ^ p. 


S 






1 § SS d 




cti 

Uc/: 


Cfi 


So 
pqpq 


G 

H 


G G i 


sqjHaa 


M c'^. <^. O 







M 


O <N O 


M H 


0. 







M 





M M 


"o 










+ 


o 




+ 




+ + 






1 i 


rt- CC O M 


M 




o 


O i^ C^. 


1 "^ 
' o 


1 ro t^o r^ 


Tt-OO 




00 


N 


r^ rf- N 


|6 


CO H 1-- M 


ro 






ro (N 


1 t^O H 


'O 




M CM 


ro 


M 


;? 












o3 














1 


1 1 '"' 






1 


O 
1 '"' 1 


1 1 


1 1 rf " 


1 "" 







+j ,G i: 


s 

M 00 , 




i-^iA ' 


^ 




1 


1 1 1 


1 1 


1 1 ^A=i 


1 c 






04 


G ro G 


'a 

• r-l 


c 
















? 




1 
M 


^ 




u 








;-. 


!h 


^-1 












.r 






^ 


s s £ 




<D 

<y 4: 3 3 :=s 


^ 'in 




^"i 


Cfl 


4-» -l-l -*-> 

m tn ^ 
G G G 


o 


bf S J5"9 3 "" 


p 




2 


iy) bo 0) 


SO 


b£) pH 




bjo 


bjCi bjO bo 


s 




>— ) 








^ 


1^ 




^^ 


G 


G G G 
<<< 




t^ r^oc CO CO CO 




00 CO 00 OO 00 00 


CO 0^ 0^ On 













000 


rt 


o o o o o 


o 




o 


o o o 


o o 


00000 


M 




M M 




M M M 




0> G\ Cr. (^ O^ 


c> 




o 


o^ o^ o^ o^ o^ 


0^ 0^ 0^ <^ G^ 


On a^ 




On 0> 


On 


(^ 0^ 


M M M M M 






M 


M M M 


M M 




H M 




H M 


*"' 


M M M 




a 




<D 








<i; 










^ 


































A 


Oh 

u 


3 











8 

S 


o ^ > c ^ 

+J c/3 C ri Q-* 

9 ,c ^ +- > 


O 

CD 




u 

o 


9 >.° 


P 


fc: (D OJ !« X) 




bi) 

£■§ 




1 

Is 


G 

m 


2 

>. 3-' OJ 
en G 03 


jaqiun^ 


Tf u->0 t-- 00 


a 




o 


M (S CO Tf- lO 


t^oo 


H CS 




ro ^ 


10 


t^oo 


'^ ^ Tt- '^ ^ T^ 




lO lO lO u-> >0 U-) 


10 10 10 100 


vO 










vO vO 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 79 






X 





, 


<U c^ 




m 


^-^-^ en 




H 


<u -d Td^ 




03 


(D OJ 0) 


en 


^r;^r;d '^ 









Cm 


Ph 


^ 




(2 


m^Oc^S 






^ 



<+H li l/J ^ UJL"-M ^ fJ 

C -d c '^ C S P^-g 'S ^ '^ '^'^ ^ 0) 



H H o o o 






\' ' O -^ I O ro +i 00 ro 

^ CO I M C^ §^- 

< 



rC 



mS^SiiiT^ i^ - M°?l^l^^l-^Sri I 






CO Q CT; C/) ^i^ 

O O 0000 OM M MMM HMMMN C^N <S COCO "^ 



I ^ 1 Iflfr 



to be 5_,^ p P ^ ^ 



6 « ^« ^ Is i tS sl ^Sll I" ^ 



c3 O 



I I l||l"sl I III t||i-8 U I U - 

^ ^ ^ p^ p^c^ mo ^ wow o^^mw oh § :z;:z; ^ 



8o 



GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 



[CH. 



c E S 



^qiBaa 





aj 


1 "» 


C 






s 


M 


<4i 


a; 




rt 


o; 


O 



It 



§ s o 



.'ts ^ 






cq O Oq(^ 



cq cq 



O 



0-. C/) 






be ho X 

S So 



I c" 8 S O i ?, 



4-> 
03 








-M 

rt 








M f 


mutton 
Imon 
tted me 


o 






i 






en 




sibly 
sh sa 
sh pc 


Oh 






O 






0) 


'S 


_^^ 


y 


O 

o 

CO 


1^ 


« 
^ 




II 












^.s 


n3 




5 0) 


c vh tH 1:2 


o 


n 








O 


(l^fefeg 


ffiCl. 


r^ 




UH 


pq 


Ph 


c^cq 


re 0) N 


o 


o 


N 


H 


M 


N 


M 


O M 



Cti 


-d c !^ 




5^ c c 


-d 




!! ^-^ 


.S^?^^ 




J^ 'd'd -d 




SSSS 


13 o'vU 


:a.s.s.s 


OpHfa 


UHHH 






CO ro lo 



1 i 



w O 
0)^ 



I I 



I Ci r^ ^ M M 



o 




uly 
uly 
tober 


bjo 


2 ^ 


03 


03 


-1 


"9 


^BB 

3 (U 0) 


03 


\-i S-H 

o3 03 




<, 


r^r^>-> 


•— 1 


O 


< 


•— > 


e^ 


s 


»— ) 




II 


03 




< 



O 0^ O C^ O O C^ 



lo in lo 

G^ <^ ON 



M M 

ON ON 



r^ r^ r-- oo oo oo oo 

On O^ On On On On On 



9 

;d 



'd o 






O o3 O 



^ ^ s 

^ c ^ 

OT o3 <U 



<^ d 

tn t-H — < — ^ 

C ^ O 'd 4J 

-I n v-i ;h 



tu 



> ."3 






o, a> 

^ I 

TO ;h 



^ b£^ 
G M hX) 

uOpq 



bc^ 



>:i o3 o ^ 

HHWm 



Vll GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 8l 



ADDENDUM 11. 

ANIMAL DISEASES CAUSED BY INFECTION WITH MEMBERS 
OF THE GAERTNER GROUP OF BACILLI. 

I. Swine fever. This disease is now generally accepted as due to a 
filterable virus, but in a considerable proportion of cases B. suipestifer, a 
member of the Gaertner group, is also found to be present, not as a mere 
passive concomitant but apparently with a distinct, although subsidiary, 
disease-producing role. The proportion of cases of swine fever in which 
this bacillus is found seems to vary from o to 45 per cent, or over (Uhlen- 
huth, Hiibener, Xylander and Bohtz (1908), Uhlenhuth and Haendel 
(1913), Grabert (1907)). 

While recorded investigations give the occurrence of this bacillus as 
prevalent to the considerable extent indicated, it is of importance to note 
that in many of the records the term B. suipestifer is used in a wide sense 
and includes many organisms which with any strict definition of the Gaertner 
group, such as should be employed, must be excluded as not members of 
it. Uhlenhuth and Haendel (1913) discuss at some length the varieties of 
B. suipestifer and while they point out that many of these are culturally 
identical and differ chiefly as regards virulence, motility and other variable 
characters, yet they include under this term, as varieties, organisms de- 
scribed by Dorset and also by Joest and Grabert which do not ferment 
glucose, and the bacillus described by Rietsch and Jobert from swine fever 
pigs at Marseilles which produced acid and clot in milk. Also the eight 
bacterial strains described by Uhlenhuth, Hiibener, Xylander and Bohtz 
(1908) which failed to be agglutinated must be regarded as suspicious, 
although the3^ report them as culturally in agreement with B. suipestifer, 
since they do not appear to have recognized the existence of para-Gaertner 
organisms. (The dulcite and salicin tests for example were not employed.) 

Dammann and Stedefeder (19 10) in an outbreak at Voldagsen isolated a 
bacillus {B. voldagseyi) which caused an infectious disease in pigs, and Glasser 
isolated an identical or almost identical organism {B . glasser) from another 
outbreak. These authors considered them to be true causal organisms 
of a variety of swine fever (Ferkel typhus), but the current German view 
appears to be that they are variants of B. suipestifer occurring in cases of 
hog-cholera (Schweinepest) . Culturally they differ from B. suipestifer in 
several important points, particularly in producing perm.anent acidity in 
milk, and in not fermenting glucose to the extent of gas production. 
Culturally they stand between B. typhosus and B. suipestifer. They are 
only slightly pathogenic and are only influenced in trifling degree by 
B suipestifer immune serum. 

It should be stated that considerable differences of opinion still exist 
amongst authorities as to what exactly constitutes swine fever. Schern 
and Stange (1914), for example, classify into three groups: 

(a) Schweinepest caused by B. suipestifer — classical swine fever. 

(6) Schweinepest caused by B. suipestifer and a filterable virus. Mixed 
infection. 

(c) A disease of hogs characterised by a haemorrhagic septicaemia; 
s. F. p. 6 



82 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

caused by the filterable virus and not identical with the classical Schweine- 
pest. 

In one of the most recent investigations, that of Gildemeister and 
Baerthlein (1915), ten B. suipestifer strains obtained from diseased swine 
inoculated in Germany with an American swine fever virus were culturally 
ail alike and agreed with the true Gaertner type but the differentiating 
tests were insufficient as they did not employ salicin, raffinose, saccharose 
or dulcite. Their agglutination results, however, suggest that these strains 
were closely allied to B. voldagsen and B. gidsser. The importance of these 
variants in human patholog}^ is unknown, but outbreaks have been described 
by Bernhardt and by Neukirch. 

Bernhardt (191 3) describes a small outbreak of food poisoning, with one 
death, after eating the meat of a necessity slaughtered cow. From the 
organs of the fatal case he isolated a bacillus of the Gaertner type which 
only differed culturally in that it failed to ferment glucose in twenty-four 
hours, and only produced a little gas after forty-eight hours. It, however, 
produced alkali in milk like the ordinary type and unlike the Glasser- 
Voldagsen strains. This bacillus was not agglutinated by B. enteritidis or 
B. paratyphoid B sera, but was agglutinated to the titre limit by a B. 
voldagsen serum. The sera of the patients agglutinated this strain but not 
B. enteritidis and only two showed a positive reaction with B. paratyphosus 
B, and this in very low dilution (i in 20). Bernhardt isolated the Voldagsen- 
Glasser bacillus from three other outbreaks in each instance from a fatal 
case, and some of these strains failed to ferment glucose at ail. The sugar- 
alcohol tests used were not extensive and it is not clear that at least .some 
of the strains were not the ordinary type of B. suipestifer . 

Neukirch (191 8) has described an extensive outbreak in Anatolia and 
Constantinople in 191 5 amongst men in which the cases were of a typhoid - 
septic or dysenteric type with a mortality of about 50 per cent. From a 
large proportion of the cases he isolated baciUi of the Gaertner group type, 
and which from his serological tests he considered to be closely related to the 
Glasser- Voldagsen type. An examination of his cultural reactions, however, 
throws considerable doubt upon this relationship since the strains fermented 
glucose with gas formation (but slower than B. paratyphosus B) while they 
gave the typical acid followed by rapid alkali production in litmus milk 
characteristic of the true Gaertner strains. It is more probable that the 
outbreak was a very severe one of B. paratyphosus B infection. 

In Scotland McGowan (191 5) carried out some very thorough post- 
mortem investigations on cases of swine fever. Cultures were made from 
the various organs and lesions of eleven cases of this disease in the neigh- 
bourhood of Edinburgh and twenty-seven organisms were isolated. None 
of them however belong to the true Gaertner group as shown by their 
action upon glucose, dulcite, and litmus milk, while all (with one possible 
exception) were non-motile. In two other isolated cases true B. suipestifer 
was not found. 

McGowan (191 7) in a subsequent report records the bacteriological 
findings in four further outbreaks in three separate piggeries. Although 
the bacteriological examinations were very thorough and included the 
examination of many different organs from eighty-five pigs, organisms 
resembling B. suipestifer were found in two cases only, i.e. from the duo- 
denum of one pig (pig i) and from the heart blood, duodenum and intestine 
of another animal (pig 4). These strains were culturally fully identical 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF. BACTERIA 83 

with B. suipestifer including the fermentation of dulcite and sorbite (both 
gas and acid), and alkali production in litmus milk. None of the other, 
organisms could be classed as Gaertner group organisms. B. suisepticus, 
on the other hand, was found in a large proportion of the pigs. 

Eberson (19 15) studied the chief groups of organisms found in a number 
of hogs artificially infected with the hog-cholera virus, fifty-five animals 
being examined: 106 so-called paratyphoid strains were isolated. The 
cultural character of these organisms are not given in detail, but for some 
the few cultural tests employed show clearly that they are not true Gaertner 
strains while for the rest the tests employed are totally inadequate to say 
if they are Gaertner organisms or not. Yet in this paper it is set out that 
"classification of the organisms shows that the greatest number belonged 
to the paratyphosus B group." 

It is, in the writer's opinion, a fair and justifiable criticism to make that 
if more exact and extended cultural investigations were made of the 
organisms present in pigs suffering from swine fever a considerably smaller 
percentage would be recorded as true B. suipestifer strains. Apart, however, 
from such necessary corrections it would still appear to be true that 
genuine Gaertner organisms are frequently met with in cases of swine 
fever, that is organisms which with the most refined bacteriological tests 
are indistinguishable from the strains isolated from human victims of food 
poisoning. 

2. Septicaemia and other diseases of calves. It would appear that while 
calf septicaemia, dysentery and pneumonia are caused by a number of 
different bacteria, in a certain proportion of cases Gaertner group bacilli 
are either the cause or are found to be present. 

Thomassen (1897) described a fatal septicaemia in calves in the neigh- 
bourhood of Utrecht and isolated a bacillus, now identified with B. enteritidis 
from the spleens, kidneys and other organs of the affected animals. Since 
that date Gaertner group bacilli have been reported by several continental 
observers in cases of septicaemia, white scour, etc. Such reports have been 
published by Zeller (1909), Titze and Weichel (1909), Schmidt (1907), 
Kiemer (1908) and Winzer (191 1). 

Several continental investigators have reported the occurrence of necrotic 
areas in the spleen, liver and other organs of calves in slaughter-houses. 
These were first investigated by Langer (1904), who isolated from them a 
bacillus which he called B. nodulifaciens bovis, but which was shown by 
Pitt (1909) and later observers to be a true Gaertner group organism. 
Pitt found that the calves frequently came from the same place and the 
same stalls and probably therefore represent the results of endemic infec- 
tion. Ledschbor (1909) and also Joest (1914) and others have found 
similar bacilli. 

Uhlenhuth and Hiibener have shown that Jensen's paracolon bacillus, 
described by him as the cause of calf dysentery, is in at least many cases 
a true Gaertner group bacillus. Jensen's (1913) own figures however show 
that Gaertner group infections are only responsible for a small proportion 
of the cases which he groups under the term " Kalberruhr." Of 251 cases 
he only found these bacilli in sixteen or 6-4 per cent. Apparently they 
were all in new born calves and no doubt were all infected at parturition. 
It is possible that a few may be of human origin but this is a most unlikely 
source of infection, and the most probable origin is either an infected cow 
or infected litter, etc. 

6—2 



84 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH, 

On the other hand, Meyer, Traum and Roadhouse (191 6) describe 
B. enteritidis as the cause of a severe outbreak of infectious diarrhoea or 
scour occurring amongst calves at the Agricultural Experiment Station, 
California, 

Zschiesche (191 8) has recently called attention to the heavy mortality 
from calves in East Prussia from diarrhoea conditions similar to those 
described by Jensen. He ascribes many of these cases to bacilli of the 
Gaertner group, but his results are very incompletely recorded so that it 
is not possible to say to what extent the bacilli isolated from the 176 
calves examined are genuine Gaertner group organisms. The fact that 
these Gaertner group bacilli isolated from calves can set up human disease 
is illustrated by the case recorded by Meyer (see p. 73). 

3. Pyaemic and septicaemic conditions in the domestic animals generally. 
Bollinger in 1876 first drew attention to the frequency of the association 
of food poisoning outbreaks in man with the consumption of the meat of 
animals suffering from such diseases. In a certain number of cases Gaertner 
group bacilli have been isolated from such conditions and apart from food 
poisoning outbreaks. For example the B. morhificans bovis of Basenau is a 
Gaertner organism and was isolated by him from a cow emergency slaugh- 
tered on account of puerperal metritis, while Fisher in 1896 isolated 
B. enteritidis from the spleen of a cow with udder inflammation. Also of 
particular interest is the outbreak of acute mastitis in cows recorded by 
Zwick (1909) and Zwick and Weichel (1910) in which Gaertner group 
bacilli were isolated from two out of twenty-one cases. 

Against these recorded cases we have the fact that a long series of 
bacteriological examinations of animals suffering from septicaemic diseases 
— made on the continent — have failed to show Gaertner group bacilli, 
except in rare instances. 

We must therefore conclude that while conditions of this sort may be 
caused by Gaertner group bacilli it is a rare and exceptional occurrence 
and the vast proportion of cases are due to the ordinary pathogenic pyo- 
genic bacteria. 

4. Enteritis in cows. Such cases are of exceptional interest in view of 
the fact that in a number of meat poisoning outbreaks the meat has been 
derived from a cow suffering from enteritis. Instances of enteritis in cows, 
unassociated with food poisoning outbreaks, in which Gaertner group 
bacilli have been isolated are rare and the writer has only been able to 
find the following. 

Mohler and Buckley (1902) record an outbreak in which seven out of 
twenty-one cows in a cowshed suffered from enteritis and died, while three 
others exhibited early symptoms but recovered. A Gaertner group bacillus 
was isolated from all the fatal cases. One cow apparently recovered from 
the acute attack, but ultimately died twenty-six days after the onset. 

Meissner, Berge and Kohlstock (191 2) describe an interesting outbreak. 
Dysentery was prevalent amongst some calves, causing the death of some 
although the majority recovered. One of these animals which had appar- 
ently recovered was transferred to pasture land shared by a number of 
cows. A number of these then suffered from diarrhoea and enteritis and 
died. The only one investigated showed B. enteritidis in pure culture. 
The affected cows were then moved to cow stalls. These contained two 
lame cows and a i| year old bull, none of which had been out in the pasture 
field. One of these two cows fell ill after the addition of the affected cows 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 85 

and from it B. enteritidis was isolated. The calf, which had apparently 
recovered and which was transferred to the field, was then examined 
bacteriologically and B. enteritidis isolated (the report does not say from 
which organs). A further calf which had died of enteritis was also sub- 
sequently examined and B. enteritidis isolated. In this outbreak we have 
an illustration of a calf suffering from a Gaertner group infection recovering 
and acting as a carrier of infection. 

5. Abortion in mares. While it is evident in the great majority of cases 
that this condition, at least in this country, is due to bacteria other than 
food poisoning bacilli (see Annual Report (191 4) of Chief Veterinary Officer 
of the Board of Agriculture) there is evidence that in certain outbreaks 
bacilli of the Gaertner group are present in the lesions, and in a number 
of cases have been reported as the cause of the condition. In 1893 Kilborne 
and Smith studied an abortion outbreak occurring amongst the mares of 
a large stud in Pennsylvania and isolated a bacillus which they grouped 
as a hog-cholera bacillus. The characters described are insufficient to group 
it as undeniably a true Gaertner group organism, but it fermented glucose 
but not lactose and saccharose, and the other characteristics given are 
those of Gaertner organisms. 

Similar bacilli have been isolated from American outbreaks by Good 
and Corbett, and by Meyer and Boerner (191 3). The latter observers from 
an outbreak in 19 13 in Pennsylvania isolated a bacillus which they called 
B. abortus equi. The serum of the aborting animals gave positive agglu- 
tination results as high as i : 2500 with this bacillus, but a complete com- 
plement fixation with comparatively high titres was only noted in four 
animals. This bacillus exhibited the cultural characters of the Gaertner 
strains except that the growth on agar slope was membranous, dry and 
brittle, and the gas produced in dulcite media was large in amount. One 
of the two strains isolated by Good also exhibited similar characteristics 
on agar. Their agglutination results suggest that their B. abortus equi is 
neither B. enteritidis nor B. paratyphosus B, while it was only partially in 
agreement with the only strain of B. suipestifer tested. The authors put 
it in a separate sub-group. 

Meissner and Berge (191 7) isolated what they call B. paratyphosus B 
forty-five times from the organs of fifty-seven foetuses (four to eight months 
old) . The sera of the mares agglutinated the bacteria isolated in dilutions of 
I : 1000 to I : 2000 and in some cases in higher dilution, while normal 
serum was only agglutinated i to 300. These bacteria were also agglu- 
tinated by B. paratyphosus B serum. 

In 1897 Lignieres and in 1905 Lignieres and Zabala isolated a Gaertner 
group bacillus from a series of cases of epizootic abortion in mares, sheep 
and cows in France and Argentina. In Holland outbreaks ascribed to 
members of this group have been described by de Jong, and by Van 
Heelsbergen (1914)- The bacillus isolated by Van Heelsbergen was patho- 
genic to the smaller laboratory animals and, as far as its cultural characters 
were tested, agreed with the Gaertner group. The agglutination reactions 
seem to show that it is not identical with either B. enteritidis, B. suipestifer, 
or B. paratyphosus B. 

Good and Corbett (191 3) isolated a very similar bacillus from the 
placenta, foetuses and uterine exudates in six different studs. Their 
bacillus agglutinated the sera of infected animals in dilutions of from 
1 : 500 to I : 5000 but was affected by normal horse sera only in low 



86 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

dilutions. The serum of an animal immunized against this bacillus failed 
to agglutinate either B. enteritidis or B. cholera suis. 

With their bacillus they succeeded in causing abortion in a ewe and a 
sow by intravenous and in guinea-pigs by subcutaneous injections, the 
organism being recovered from the uterine exudates. An injection of 2 c.c. 
of an agar emulsion into a pregnant mare caused abortion with the typical 
symptoms of the natural infection, while the organism was found in 
abundance in the internal organs of the foetus, as well as from the foetal 
membranes and uterus of the mare. 

The writer is not concerned with the question as to how far these bacilli 
were the true cause of the abortion and other symptoms or whether they 
played a role analogous to that of B. suipestifer in swine fever, but their 
presence in this condition in horses is certainly of considerable interest. 

6. Certain diseases of birds. Epidemics, usually marked by a high 
fatality rate, have been recorded as affecting a number of different species 
of birds and from which Gaertner group bacilli have been isolated. The 
best known are the outbreaks in parrots, the so-called Psittacosis disease 
(see Baumgartens Jahreshericht, 1896, for an account of several outbreaks). 
Nocard in 1893 isolated a bacillus, which he called B. psittacosis, from the 
bone marrow of birds which had died on the journey from Buenos Ayres. 
In subsequent epidemics this bacillus has been isolated both from the 
diseased parrots and from the blood of the human cases. From the parrots 
the disease has spread to man, and in April, 1892, an extensive outbreak 
occurred in Paris, with forty-two known cases and fourteen deaths. 

B. psittacosis is undoubtedly a Gaertner group organism probably 
identical with B. suipestifer (Bohme, 1906, Selter, 1916). Tartakowsky has 
described an infectious enteritis in sparrows due to a Gaertner bacillus. 

Joest (1907) isolated a bacillus, apparently a Gaertner group organism^ 
from a canary suffering, with others, from an epidemic disease associated 
with catarrhal enteritis and splenic tumour. Zingle (191 4) in 1913 isolated 
in pure culture a Gaertner group organism from pigeons in an outbreak 
affecting fourteen birds in the militarj^ pigeon station at Strassburg. 
This strain was agglutinated nearly to the titre limit by a S. paratypliosiis 
B serum but was only partially agglutinated by a B. enteritidis serum, so 
apparently it is the former organism, according to German nomenclature. 
Manninger (1913) investigated three birds of the finch family sent to him 
from the Buda-Pest Zoological Gardens and isolated from them a Gaertner 
group bacillus. The birds suffered from an acute intestinal catarrh. Like 
the bacillus from the last outbreak this organism was only agglutinated in 
moderate degree by a B. enteritidis serum but to the titre limit by a B. 
paratyphosus B serum. 

The outbreak of acute infectious disease in young pheasants recorded 
by Klein (1893) in which over 700 out of 1800 died may have been due to 
a Gaertner strain, but the characters of the bacillus isolated from the 
heart blood are insufftcient to settle this point and the fact that indol is 
said to have been produced is against this assumption. 

7. Canine distemper. The writer has only come across one report 
dealing with the presence of Gaertner bacilli in dogs. Tcrrey and Rahl 
(191 2), in a series of sixty-three consecutive cases of natural and experi- 
mental distemper, isolated B. enteritidis in one or more of the internal 
organs in twelve cases (19 per cent.). They suggest the baciUi invaded 
the organs in the final stages since 75 per cent, of the findings were in animals 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA Sy 

severely attacked. The bacilli were non-toxic to dogs. Their characters 
are not given in detail but were said to be identical in cultural and agglu- 
tination characters with B. enteritidis (Gaertner) . 

8. Diseases amongst rodents. B. typhi murium (a Gaertner group 
organism) was isolated by Loffler as the cause of an epidemic in mice and 
has been isolated subsequently from other mice epidemics. It has been 
used as living poison to set up an epizootic among mice and so cause their 
extermination. In the same way a number of Gaertner group bacilli have 
been used to set up infective disease in rats. Of these Danysz's bacillus is 
the best known. 

Spontaneous outbreaks of infectious disease amongst rats and mice and 
due to Gaertner group strains are not uncommon. Three such have occurred 
at widely different periods amongst the writer's laboratory m.ice. Extensive 
outbreaks amongst laboratory guinea-pigs due to these bacilli are not at 
all uncommon (O'Brien and others). 

A number of similar outbreaks in rats or mice have been recorded on 
the continent, while Pappenheimer and Wedel (191 4) have described an 
epidemic in America due to a strain which agreed in every respect with 
the Liverpool rat virus. 

Davies, Heaven and Walker Hall (191 7) have described a very extensive 
rat epizootic on board a ship from Buenos A^^res due to B. snipestifer or a 
very closely allied variety. 

Outbreaks of disease in other animals may possibly have been due to 
Gaertner group bacilli, but the bacilli have not been sufficiently worked 
out. Mori (1905), for example, describes a bacillus isolated from a cat, 
which, with several others, had died from an epizootic in Siena. The 
characters given are insufficient to indicate whether it was a Gaertner 
organism or not. In several food poisoning outbreaks due to Gaertner 
group bacilli cats eating the incriminated food have been affected and made 
seriously ill. 

9. In connection with the problem of the extent to which Gaertner 
group bacilli are responsible for disease in domestic animals some results 
obtained by the writer (Savage, 191 8 a) are of interest. The sera of a 
number of domestic animals passed as healthy were examined and, in a 
considerable proportion of them, specific agglutinins were present against 
one or other m.ember of the Gaertner group. The following summary gives 
the results of 133 examinations. In this table a positive reaction with a 
dilution of i : 20 only is classed as negative; a "slight" reaction is a 
positive reaction with a dilution of i : 50 with any one of the three organ- 
isms (B. enteritidis, B. suipestifer, B. paratyphosus B), while a "marked" 
reaction comprises a positive reaction with any one of these three organisms 
in a dilution of i : 100 or above. 

Percentages 



\nimal 


Number 
examined 


No 


reaction 


Slight reaction 


Marked reaction 


Calf 


14 




100 


— 





Cow and Ox 


26 




II 


35 


.54 


Sheep 


18 




78 


II 


II 


Pig 


36 




39 


19 


42 


Horse 


39 




41 


33 


26 



These agglutinins were absent in all the calves, were mostly absent 
from sheep, but were fairly well developed in 40 to 50 per cent, of the pigs. 



88 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

cows and oxen examined. They were also present in a considerable pro- 
portion of the horses tested. The failure to demonstrate these agglutinins 
in the calf and their definite development in many of the cows and oxen 
sera suggest that they are not present in the new born animal but develop 
later in life. The available data is insufficient to enable a definite opinion 
to be given as to whether these positive reactions with Gaertner strains 
are to be ascribed to an old infection with these bacilli, but they suggest 
this possibility. 



ADDENDUM III. 

DISTRIBUTION OF GAERTNER GROUP BACILLI IN NATURE 
APART FROM PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS. 

The distribution of these bacilli in nature is of such great significance in 
connection with the problems of food poisoning, and many of the results 
have been so conflicting, that it is necessary to give in some detail particulars 
of the investigations carried out in this connection. The data is con- 
veniently grouped as follows: in the human intestine, in the animal intes- 
tine, in foodstuffs, particularly prepared meats. 

A. In the human intestine. 

B. paratypJiosiis B is found in the intestine in cases of paratyphoid fever 
and in persons who have comparatively recently had an attack of para- 
typhoid fever and are acting as acute or chronic carriers. 

Apart from these cases all the English investigators have failed to find 
that B. paratyphosus B or other true Gaertner group organisms are natural 
inhabitants of the healthy human intestine. 

In 1907-9 the writer (Savage, 1907, 1908 a) examined verj^ carefully 
and by methods of proved utility fifty-three specimens of human excreta 
from healthy persons or from persons suffering from disease, a few being 
cases of paratyphoid fever. Apart from finding B. paratyphosus B in actual 
cases of that disease only one organism of the true Gaertner group was 
isolated; this was a B. enieritidis. 

Morgan (1906) examined about 300 cases of summer diarrhoea and only 
found two true Gaertner organisms, both B. suipestifer. 

Williams, Murray and Rundle (1910) examined the stools of 100 normal 
children and failed to find any true Gaertner group organisms. 

Bainbridge and O'Brien (191 1) examined the faeces and urine of numerous 
typhoid convalescents and failed to isolate any true Gaertner group bacilli. 

Lewis (191 1) examined 214 specimens of faeces from 146 normal children 
and seventy specimens of faeces from sixty-one cases of diarrhoea in 
infants. Only one strain identical with true Gaertner group bacilli was 
isolated. It was pathogenic but the precise sub-group was not determined. 

The German results are conflicting. Conradi, Prigge and Sachsmiike 
(1909) and others recorded B. paratyphosus B as present in the excreta of 
a considerable proportion of typhoid convalescents and healthy persons, 
while Seiffert (1909), Sobernheim (1910), Aumann, Tiberti (191 1) and others 
do not confirm these observations. 

Aumann's (191 1) figures include 799 specimens of human excreta, 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 89 

urine, blood or vomit examined in the Municipal Hamburg Hygienic 
Institute, 1905-19 10. Of these 498 were excreta specimens and 6 per cent, 
(thirty-one specimens) showed true Gaertner group bacilli, thirteen being 
paratyphoid bacilli and eighteen B. enteritidis. In all but one the presence 
of these bacilli was closely associated with epidemics or cases of disease. 
In the 301 other specimens three paratyphoid B bacilli were isolated, in 
each instance from a case of paratyphoid fever. 



B. In the animal intestine. 

a. Animals used for food. In view of the fact that faecal contamination 
of food during and sometimes after preparation is common, it becomes of 
cardinal importance to ascertain to what extent bacilli of the Gaertner 
group occur in the intestines of healthy animals. The domestic animals 
used for food are naturally the most important in this connection. 

The results obtained may be divided into three distinct phases. We 
have first the earlier German reports which supported the conception that 
these bacilli were natural intestinal inhabitants, then independently of these 
but in part carried out concurrently the investigations in this country 
which quite failed to support this contention, and lastly a series of 
recent investigations in Germany and elsewhere which support the English 
results. 

Uhlenhuth, Hiibener, Xy lander and Bohtz (1908) investigated bacterio- 
logically the intestinal contents of 600 pigs from the Central Berlin slaughter- 
house. Although they only examined one loopful of the intestinal contents, 
they isolated B. suipestifer from 8-4 per cent, (fifty-one cases) of the animals. 

In confirmation of these results Seiffert (1909) found the bacilli twice in 
sixty pigs, Ecker in four out of ten pigs and Grabert in seven out of 
twenty- three pigs. 

The cultural tests which these investigators employed, and which were 
accepted by them as sufficient, are not adequate to distinguish the bacilli 
from the para-Gaertner bacilli which not infrequently are present in the 
healthy animal gut. These investigators for example did not test the 
fermentation properties of their organisms upon dulcite, salicin or sac- 
charose. 

Some virulence tests — subcutaneous inoculation of mice — were per- 
formed and the mice succumbed. The .strains were agglutinated by hog- 
cholera sera but the exact dilutions employed are not given. 

In healthy calves and sheep Uhlenhuth, Hiibener and Andreijew found 
organisms in small numbers which were possibly paratyphoid bacilli. 
Andreijew (1910) is also frequently credited with finding true Gaertner 
bacilli in sheep intestines, but what he did find was bacilli "which in their 
cultural and biological characters could be, with more or less probability, 
added to the hog-cholera group of bacilli." Para-Gaertner bacilli are not 
uncommon in sheep. 

On the other hand, there are a number of negative German findings. 
For example, Titze and Weichel (1909) examined the excreta of forty-four 
cattle, sixty calves, fifteen sheep, three goats, sixteen dogs, twenty-four 
rabbits, fifty guinea-pigs, thirteen fowls, fourteen pigeons, six geese and 
fourteen sparrows with quite negative results except that in the excreta 
of one horse they found a paratyphoid bacillus. 



90 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

Ecker also examined the intestinal contents of twelve horses, sixteen 
cattle, eight sheep, one goat and five rats, and only in the case of one 
horse did he find a true Gaertner group bacillus. 

Horn and Huber (1912) examined the intestinal content of 100 healthy 
animals without finding any true Gaertner group bacilli although they 
found some allied forms. 

Aumann examined the excreta of 200 recently slaughtered animals, 
consisting of loi pigs, forty-eight cattle, forty-one sheep and ten calves, 
and failed to find true Gaertner group bacilli in any of them. 

Only a few English investigations appear to have been carried out, but 
their results are entirely opposed to the view that these organisms are 
natural intestinal inhabitants. 

Morgan (1905) examined the faeces and intestinal contents of a number 
of animals and isolated twenty-one cultures of bacilli of the Gaertner type. 
They were, however, not isolated by direct cultivation from the intestinal 
contents but onl}^ from animals inoculated with the material under ex- 
amination, a method which is now admitted to be unreliable for this pur- 
pose. 

In 1 906-1 908 the writer examined with great care (for example over 
700 plates were inoculated) the intestinal contents of twenty-six animals 
and five specimens of animal excreta, the animals selected being seven pigs, 
six bullocks or co-ws, five calves, four sheep, eight horses and one mouse. 
No true Gaertner group organisms could be found, although a considerable 
number of para-Gaertner bacilli were isolated which culturally resembled 
true Gaertner bacilli extremely closely. 

These results have been confirmed by Bainbridge (191 1) who examined 
the intestinal contents of fifty pigs without finding any true Gaertner 
group bacilli. 

In a later examination the writer (Savage, 1918) examined some of the 
internal organs of thirty-six healthy pigs and ten calves without finding 
any true Gaertner group organisms. 

As mentioned above quite recent continental and American investigations 
substantiate the views of the author as shown by the following reports. 

Fischer (191 5) examined eighty-five old calves, ten young calves and ten 
adult oxen without finding any Gaertner bacilli. 

Christiansen (1917) examined thirty-four calves without finding any 
true bacilli of this group. One closely allied bacillus (a para-Gaertner 
strain) was isolated and this author remarks that he frequently found this 
organism in older calves. It was non -pathogenic. 

Trawinski (191 7) examined the intestinal contents of 500 healthy pigs 
and from them isolated twenty-six strains which he included in the Gaertner 
group. The pigs came from a district where there had been no epidemics 
and were kept under observation for eight to ten days in the slaughter- 
house. Further cultural investigation of these strains divided them into 
three groups. The eight members of one group although they fermented 
dulcite failed to ferment sorbite and produced indol. Another group of 
sixteen strains also produced indol and failed to ferment either sorbite or 
dulcite. Only the two strains in the remaining group were culturally 
identical with the recognized pathogenic members of the group. His agglu- 
tination and absorption tests confirm the cultural reactions except that 
the eight organism.s of the first group serologically showed a relationship 
to B. aertrycke and to B. suipestifer. While therefore without the applica- 



VI] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA QI 

tion of certain essential cultural tests 5 per cent, of Gaertner group organ- 
isms were obtained, this was reduced to 0-4 per cent, when more detailed 
cultural examinations were employed. 

Russ and Trawinski (191 8) examined 1000 strains from horse manure 
and while seventy-seven (7-7 per cent.) were of the Gaertner group type 
closer study showed that only two strains were culturally quite identical 
with the true Gaertner organisms, while a further five strains only differed 
in that they failed to ferment rhamn'ose. Salicin was not employed, 
while none of the organisms were agglutinated by B. enteritidis or B. para- 
typhosus B serum. 

Jordan (1918 a), in America, examined the intestinal contents of 291 
normal swine, investigating in all 1419 strains. No organism was isolated 
which had the recognized characters of true Gaertner group bacilli, while 
this was confirmed by their failure to show any agglutination affinities 
with these organisms. 

Summing up the matter it seems a reliable deduction that the Gaertner 
group of organisms are not natural inhabitants of the intestine or other 
organs of domestic animals and the earlier German work is unreliable and 
is probably to be explained by failure to use a sufficient series of differenti- 
ating tests, para-Gaertner organisms (which are not uncommon) being 
confused with the true strains. 

/3. Rats and mice. Apart from animals used for animal food, evidence 
has been adduced that true Gaertner bacilli may be met with in the intes- 
tinal contents of rats and mice, a matter of importance in view of the fre- 
quent contamination of food by these animals. 

Heuser (1910) examined 100 mice and in five isolated Gaertner bacilli of 
both types, i.e. B. enteritidis and B. paratyphosus B {vel B. suipestifer 
according to German classification), from their intestinal contents. The 
mice showed no symptoms of disease. He also examined about sixty white 
rats and found B. enteritidis but no B. suipestifer. He found that by animal 
passage bacilli of the B. suipestifer group showed a rise of virulence to 
rats. 

Uhlenhuth (1909) examined twenty-five healthy mice and failed to find 
any Gaertner group organisms in the intestines or internal organs. 

Zwick and Weichel (191 1) examined 177 mice and in twenty-eight found 
Gaertner group bacilli present. 

There is further evidence as to the occurrence of true Gaertner group 
bacilli in the intestines of rats and mice from certain feeding experiments. 
Miihlens, Darm and Fiirst (1908) fed mice with different kinds of prepared 
food and a number of them died, Gaertner group bacilli being isolated. 
Gaertner group bacilli were not found in the foods by cultural tests. 
Zwick and Weichel fed 140 white mice with seventy samples of salt meat 
and different forms of pig, all of which culturally examined failed to show 
Gaertner group bacilli. Eighty-five (60-7 per cent.) of the mice died, and 
from two of them B. paratyphosus B was isolated. 

These feeding experiments suggest that the Gaertner bacilli were present 
in the mice, probably in the intestines, and under the conditions of the 
experiments invaded the body and caused a general infection with death. 

Savage and Read (191 3) examined the internal organs and intestinal 
contents of forty-one rats. No Gaertner group bacilli were isolated from 
the intestinal contents, but five strains of B. enteritidis were obtained from 
the spleens (in two cases also from the liver) of different rats. In two 



92 GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA [CH. 

instances Danysz's virus {B. enteritidis) had been distributed quite recently, 
while two and a half years previously the refuse tips and slaughter-houses 
from which these rats were obtained had been extensively dosed with this 
virus. It is highly probable that the bacilli isolated were derived (except 
in the two cases of recent infection) from an old infection with this virus, 
a conclusion supported by the failure to find this organism in the intestinal 
contents and by the fact that the serum from a number of these rats 
agglutinated B. enteritidis in high dilution. 

A later investigation by the writer (Savage, 191 8) confirms this hypothesis, 
since forty-eight rats obtained from a different source showed no Gaertner 
group bacilli or Gaertner group agglutinins. 

It has already been recorded that rats and mice suffer from epidemics 
of disease due to this group of bacilli. In such outbreaks while many of 
the animals die a considerable percentage recover or even show few or 
no symptoms as a result of the infection. A consideration of the above 
investigations strongly suggests that these bacilli are not natural inhabitants 
of either rats or mice and that when found they occur in animals which 
have recovered from infection and are acting as carriers. 

Petrie and O'Brien (1910) succeeded in experimentally producing the 
carrier-state in guinea-pigs by feeding them with B. suipestifer. In the 
case of two animals (out of six fed) the bacilli were isolated from the 
faeces for as long as fifty-nine days after the last feeding. The authors do 
not state if the bacillus used was virulent by injection when used for 
feeding, or if any impairment of virulence resulted from the sojourn in 
the alimentary tract of the guinea-pigs. 

In an epizootic amongst the stock guinea-pigs at the Lister Institute 
due to B. suipestifer, recorded by O'Brien (1910), the survivors showed 
definite immunity to this bacillus, and five of them proved to be carriers, 
excreting the bacillus intermittently five months later. 

Bainbridge (191 2), in the Milroy Lectures for 191 2, drew attention to 
the importance of the rat in relation to meat-poisoning, and suggested that 
the rat's intestine may be the true home of B. enteritidis, and that it reaches 
the alimentary canal of cattle and other domestic animals through the 
contamination of their food or bedding by rats. 

C. In meat, particularly prepared meat. 

In 1908 the writer (Savage, 1909) examined sixty-four specimens of 
brawn, sausage, tinned and other prepared foods, and also eighteen samples 
of pickling fluids from various sources. While pseudo- or para-Gaertner 
organisms were not uncommon, from only one sausage (out of twenty-eight) 
was a true Gaertner organism isolated. This was B. enteritidis and not 
B. suipestifer, although the sausage was a pork one. The particular sausage 
from which it was isolated was obtained from a small local butcher who 
made his sausages on the premises. No illness was known to result from 
consumption of the rest of the sausages. 

On the whole the German investigations, which have been fairly numerous 
since 1908, are in accord with and confirm these results, but several 
workers have found the bacilli more frequently. 

Miihlens, Darm and Fiirst (1908) examined fifty-seven samples of 
different kinds of prepared meats bought in Berlin shops, and including 
pickled goose-breast, raw ham, cooked ham, smoked ham, smoked tongues, 



Vl] GAERTNER GROUP OF BACTERIA 93 

etc. In no case could they find any Gaertner group bacilli by cultural 
examination. When they fed white mice with the different foods, a large 
number of the mice died, and Gaertner group bacilli were isolated. Since, 
however, as already pointed out, mice feeding and inoculation methods 
are useless for this purpose (see also Reinhardt and Seibold, 1912 b, and 
Schellhorn, 1910), the essential value of their work is that they failed to 
find Gaertner group bacilli in these prepared foods by cultural examination. 

Hiibener (1908) examined 100 different varieties of sausage and isolated 
six Gaertner group bacilli, two from fresh blood sausages and four from 
smoked sausages. The cultural characters of the baciUi are not given. 

Rimpau (1908) records that he found B. paratyphosus S in a liver 
sausage quite free from objectionable appearance or odour, and the use of 
which was in no way harmful. 

Rommeler (1909) examined fifty-one samples of sausage, and in eight 
found paratyphoid bacilli, while from eight samples of "hackfleisch" in 
five he isolated the same bacillus. As no cultural, agglutination or inocu- 
lative experiments are given, it is not possible to say if he differentiated 
the true from the para-Gaertner forms. 

Trautmann examined fifty-one samples of sausage, ham, goose-breast 
and smoked meat without finding any Gaertner group bacilli. 

Zwick and Weichel (1910) culturally examined seventy samples of salt 
meat, goose-breast and different forms of prepared pig meat, and were 
unable to find any Gaertner bacilli. 

Aumann investigated 150 specimens of sausage from Hamburg shops 
and failed to find Gaertner group bacilli in any of them. 

Zweifel (191 1) at Leipzig examined 248 specimens of chopped meat 
(hackfleisch), obtained quite fresh, both by direct plating and by enrich- 
ment method. In no case did he find true Gaertner group bacilli. 

Ciurea (191 2) working in Ostertag's laboratory examined fifty-three 
samples of "hackfleisch" from different Berlin sources. Although allied 
bacilli were isolated, in no instance was a true Gaertner group organism 
isolated. 

Carey (1916) examined thirty-four samples of pork sausage at Chicago 
but no Gaertner group organisms were obtained from any of them. 

These results may be taken as showing that true Gaertner group bacilli 
are nearly always absent from prepared meat foods, but that very occa- 
sionally they are present. 



CHAPTER VII 

FOOD POISONING OF UNSPECIFIC BACTERIAL ORIGIN 

It has been shown in Chapter V that all, or almost all, the 
larger and widespread outbreaks of bacterial food poisoning, 
where modern reliable methods have been employed to inves- 
tigate them, have been found to be due to one or other 
member of the Gaertner group of bacilli. Although this is 
now admitted it is still advanced that a certain proportion 
of these larger outbreaks have a different bacterial origin. 
The great majority of the instances of outbreaks and attacks 
of food poisoning limited to one or two persons or members 
of one family, and these are probably very numerous, have 
never been systematically investigated and we are not, 
therefore, in a position to dogmatise as to their causation. 
To account for this residuum of larger outbreaks and these 
numerous unexplained limited attacks several explanations 
may be advanced. 

In the first place there is a strong probability that not a 
few of these slighter and more localized outbreaks are also 
due to Gaertner group bacilli if only investigations were 
made. For others definite specific bacilli not of this group 
may be the cause, such as B. faecalis alkaligenes, B. pro- 
digiosus, or bacilli at present unrecognized. 

Two views, still widely favoured at the present time, have 
been advanced by different writers and investigators to 
account for many cases and outbreaks and require careful 
consideration. These two views are : 

(a) That the food poisoning attacks are due to general 
bacterial mass infection not necessarily specific in nature. 

(b) That the attacks are due to the changes caused by the 
action of putrefactive bacilli, in other words that the symp- 
toms are due to the ingestion of food in a state of incipient 
or developed putrefaction. 



CH. VII] NON-SPECIFIC FOOD POISONING 95 

General bacterial mass infection as a cause of 
food poisoning. 

Not commonly definitely expressed, but certainly fre- 
quently assumed, is the hypothesis that outbreaks of food 
poisoning are caused, not by infection of the food with some, 
specific bacillus, but through massive infection of the food 
with faecal and other bacilli, the symptoms being due to the 
action of the toxic products of these bacilli. This view is 
frequently suggested or implied as the explanation of indivi- 
dual outbreaks. The possibility of such a method of action 
cannot be ignored and the wide acceptance of this theory 
demands its careful consideration. 

In its favour is the fact that many of the cardinal symp- 
toms of food poisoning, such as diarrhoea, vomiting and some 
constitutional disturbance, are conditions which may be set 
up by any agencies which can disturb the balance of the 
alimentary tract. Amongst such agencies are certain chemi- 
cal substances and it may well be that the toxic products of 
bacteria, such as B. coli, which in general possess low toxicity, 
may exert an irritant action sufficient to cause the symptoms 
of this condition. 

A supposed analogy between food poisoning and epidemic 
diarrhoea has been utilised in this connection. Although the 
etiological view of epidemic diarrhoea most in vogue at the 
present time favours one or more specific bacteria as the 
cause, there is a considerable body of opinion which takes 
the view that the manifestations of epidemic diarrhoea in 
infants are nothing more than the result of massive bacterial 
infection, non-specific in nature, acting upon the sensitive 
mucous membrane of the infant. Delepine, for example, 
voiced this opinion in 1903 (Delepine, 1903), stating, "Epi- 
demic diarrhoea of the common type occurring in this 
country is apparently in the great majority of instances the 
result of infection of food by bacilli belonging to the colon 
group of bacilli which are present at times in faecal matter. 
It appears that this infection of food does not generally lead 
to serious consequences unless the infection is massive from 
the first, or the food is kept for a sufficient length of time 



96 NON-SPECIFIC FOOD POISONING [CH. 

and under conditions of temperature favouring the multi- 
plication of these bacilli." His view at that time was that 
"epidemic diarrhoea is generally the result of a more widely 
disseminated, and less massive form of bacterial infection of 
food than is the case with regard to the more definite out- 
breaks of food poisoning." 

Consideration of the general facts and a study of detailed 
outbreaks show almost insuperable difficulties in the way of 
accepting this theory. 

In the first place massive bacterial infection with intestinal 
bacteria is exceedingly common and foods such as milk, ice- 
cream, brawn and sausages are habitually consumed con- 
taining thousands of bacteria per cubic centimetre or 
gramme, many of which are of direct intestinal origin. 
Food poisoning outbreaks should be of repeated and constant 
occurrence instead of being comparatively infrequent. 

Further, there should be a special incidence upon the types 
of food which are so frequently ingested loaded with excretal 
bacteria. Milk in particular should be always causing out- 
breaks, yet if Chapter V is consulted it will be noted that 
comparatively few outbreaks of definite food poisoning have 
been traced to milk, and nearly all were due to bacterial 
infection with a specific bacillus. 

If outbreaks are caused by massive non-specific bacterial 
infection we would expect to get a definite relationship 
between dosage and the degree of infection. Those who ate 
little would have slight symptoms, those who ate "not wisely 
but too well" would pay the heavier price, the children with 
their greater intestinal susceptibility would particularly be 
selected. There would also be, in the more widespread out- 
breaks, a tailing off of the severity of the symptoms where 
the infection was less massive. Nothing of this is the case, 
the relationship between dose and severity of attack is at 
most very inconstant and frequently non-existent, while 
there is no special incidence on children. 

In food poisoning outbreaks it is true that examination of 
the food usually discloses faecal contamination, but it is 
exceptional to find it different in kind or more massive in 
character than food of similar nature, eaten without the 



VII] NON-SPECIFIC FOOD POISONING 97 

production of symptoms by thousands of other persons of 
the same age, sex and susceptibiHty. 

A study of outbreaks, whether large or small, show that 
they are explosive in character, a characteristic especially 
associated with specific bacterial infection. 

We have finally the impressive fact that the more care-' 
fully and fully individual outbreaks are studied and bacterio- 
logically investigated the greater the number found to be 
associated with infection with some definite bacillus, and it 
is a reasonable assumption that the residuum of outbreaks 
unassociated in this way would be comparatively small if 
all were fully investigated, bacteriologically and chemically, 
and especially if material was available for examination 
early in the course of the outbreak. 

This statement is substantiated by the occasional, almost 
chance, investigation of small outbreaks which differ in no 
way from others ascribed to massive bacterial infection, 
except that they happen to be investigated by competent 
bacteriologists. The following may be mentioned as an 
example : 

In a small town a family consisting of a mother and her 
five children, aged four to twelve, consumed without harm 
their Sunday dinner of beefsteak pudding, greens and haricot 
beans, but all, except the mother, were taken ill, with the 
usual food poisoning symptoms, after consuming the remains 
of the beefsteak pudding for Monday's dinner. One of the 
children died. At the inquest the usual medical evidence as 
to ptomaine poisoning was given and the usual suggestions 
of bacterial multiplication and fermentation were advanced 
and no efforts were made to trace the source of infection, 
this hypothesis being accepted as a satisfactory explanation 
of everything. None of the food was submitted for bacterio- 
logical examination, nor were the internal organs of the fatal 
case bacteriologically investigated. The writer only became 
aware of the outbreak when it was too late to obtain such 
material but it was possible to obtain samples of blood from 
four of the children. These all showed the presence of 
agglutinins in marked amount for B. enteritidis, one of the 
food poisoning bacteria, thus conclusively demonstrating 



98 NON-SPECIFIC FOOD POISONING [CH. 

r 

that this Httle outbreak was due to specific infection with 
this organism. 

On the experimental side there is no evidence to support 
this hypothesis. Food very massively infected with B. coli 
and other intestinal bacteria given to animals to eat does not 
cause infection or illness, and there are no actual food poison- 
ing outbreaks for which proof worth the name has been 
forthcoming that faecal B. coli have set up the condition. 
The only instance which the writer can trace showing that 
massive doses of B. coli taken into the human body by 
natural channels has caused symptoms is one recorded by 
Vaughan (1913). The Vaughans worked with large masses 
of B. coli grown for two weeks in agar in metal tanks. At the 
end of that time the crude bacterial substance obtained by 
extracting this mass with absolute alcohol and ether was 
powdered finely in an agate mortar for certain special inves- 
tigations. They state "the person who did the pulverizing 
was often quite seriously poisoned during the process unless 
he took the precaution of wearing a mask which hindered 
the inhalation of the powder." Apart from symptoms due 
to direct irritation on the mucous membrane the chief 
symptoms were a feeling of depression and malaise and a 
chilly sensation. Occasionally a decided chill would be ex- 
perienced, but no temperature readings were taken. Nausea 
and even vomiting were occasionally noted. After a period 
of discomfort varying from six to ten hours, during which 
the patient often complained of dull pains in the various 
joints, recovery would rapidly and completely take place. 

In this case the dose of bacillus endotoxins was enormous, 
and it is significant that the symptoms are not those associ- 
ated with food poisoning. 

The question of the activities of B. coli as a putrefying 
organism is considered in the next section. 

The view of the writer is that there is no evidence in 
favour of the hypothesis that ordinary massive bacterial 
food infection is a cause of food poisoning outbreaks. At 
the same time no one can make a close study of such out- 
breaks without coming across cases in which neither Gaertner 
group bacilli, B. botulinus, nor other recognized specific bacilli 



VIl] PUTREFACTION 99 

can be found and in which the possibility of putrefactive 
changes can be ruled out. In most such cases, however, 
opportunities for a full investigation have been lacking. The 
following will serve as an example of such an outbreak. 

Six persons were taken ill after eating, on December 24th, 
19 17, of a dinner of which goose was the chief item, nine in all ' 
partaking of it. The symptoms included headache, giddiness, 
vomiting and a very irritating nettle rash. One of those who 
suffered ate no goose but had gravy and stuffing. It was 
stated, after the outbreak, that the goose smelt peculiarly 
whilst being cooked, also that there was a general complaint 
of the stuffing of sage and onions being bitter. The writer 
examined bacteriologically the carcase of the goose, but not 
until ten days after the dinner on December 24th, while 
none of the stuffing was obtainable. Comparatively few 
bacteria, aerobic or anaerobic, were present, B. coli being 
exceptionally scanty, while no Gaertner group bacilli were 
found. Examination of the blood of a number of the cases 
also helped to exclude infection with the latter group, and 
the cause of the outbreak had to be left unascertained. 
There was no evidence of putrefactive changes and the out- 
break occurred during a very cold spell which with the 
bacteriological findings effectively disposed of the question 
of massive bacterial infection. The outbreak might have 
been due to chemical poisoning or to specific infection from 
some undetected anaerobic bacilli, and it will be noted that 
proper material was not available for a complete investiga- 
tion. 

The true causes of outbreaks of this nature can only be 
ascertained when complete and early investigations are 
possible and it is very desirable that opportunities for such 
examinations should be more frequently given and utilized. 

Putrefactive bacilli and putrefactive changes as a 
cause of food poisoning. 

It has been shown in Chapter I that the view that putre- 
factive changes are the cause of most outbreaks of food 
poisoning early obtained wide credence, and that the dis- 
covery of bodies of high toxicity to animals obtained from 

7—2 



100 PUTREFACTION [CH. 

putrefying organic matter was hailed as giving the necessary 
basis of scientific support for this contention. The views so 
propounded were widely accepted as correct, and have ob- 
tained such a hold on both medical and lay opinion that 
even at the present time food poisoning outbreaks are 
promptly labelled as outbreaks of ptomaine poisoning by 
both the majority of medical men and the general public. 

As a source of widespread outbreaks putrefactive changes 
can certainly be excluded, but, apart from these, expert 
opinion still favours the view that individual cases and 
limited outbreaks may be due to the consumption of meat 
in a state of early decomposition. 

This view is also the basis of administrative action and 
enormous quantities of food in an early stage of putrefaction 
are seized and condemned as unfit. On grounds apart from 
any risk of causing food poisoning outbreaks strong justifica- 
tion may be advanced for such action, but at the same time 
it is highly desirable that administrative procedure on so 
extensive a scale should rest on a firm basis of scientifically 
ascertained fact and not on any supposed harmfulness due 
to ptomaines which, as will be shown later, is devoid of 
scientific foundation or on unsubstantiated statements re- 
peated and copied from textbook to textbook without any 
effort to analyse and verify. 

It is therefore of material importance to consider in some 
detail the bacteriological and chemical changes which are 
included under the term "putrefaction" and the evidence 
pointing to the potential harmfulness to man of the con- 
sumption of food in such a condition. 

The chemical changes which take place in 
putrefaction. 

By putrefaction is understood the decomposition of 
organic matter, chiefly protein in character, by the action 
of bacteria, by which it is split up into a number of chemical 
substances many of which are gaseous and foul smelling. 
Earlier observers considered putrefaction to be a kind of 
fermentation similar, for example, to the production of 



VIl] PUTREFACTION lOI 

alcohol from sugar, and it was left to Pasteur to show that 
bacteria were the cause. 

The decomposition changes in non-nitrogenous matter are 
hardly of the nature of putrefaction so that for practical 
purposes consideration may be confined to changes in the 
proteins. 

To understand clearly the degradation changes in proteins 
as a result of putrefaction it is necessary to give a brief 
account of the composition of the animal proteins and their 
simpler cleavage products. 

The proteins are highly complex compounds of C, H, O, 
N and S, belonging for the most part to the colloids. The 
protein molecule is a very large one. Some fifty or so natural 
proteins are known, occurring in both animals and plants, 
and they are classified according to their origin, solubility 
in solvents such as water, saline solutions and alcohol, 
coagulability on heating and other physical characters. 

The work of Emil Fischer and his pupils has confirmed and 
elaborated the theory originally propounded by Hofmeister, 
that the protein molecule is built up of a series of amino- 
acids ^ forming a class of products which have been designated 
the polypeptides by Fischer. Such polypeptides form the 
essential part of the structure of the protein molecule, but 
it may contain other groups, such as phosphoric acid and 
possibly also carbohydrates. 

Under the influence of chemical agencies, such as acids or 

^ The amino-acids are bodies in which a NHo group (the amino group) 
is substituted for a hydrogen atom of the carbon group nearest the acid 
radical. For example, acetic acid is a simple fatty acid with the formula 
CH3— COOH, while CH^NHa— COOH is amino-acetic acid or glycocoll. 
The aromatic amino-acids are those in which amino-acids are united to 
the benzene ring. Tyrosine belongs to this group. The general formula of 

/NH2 
the mono-amido acids may be stated as R — CH\ " where R may be 

\C00H 
of very simple or very complicated structure; for example, simple chains 
as in leucine, members of the aromatic series as in tyrosine or tryptophane 
or sulphur containing bodies. 

In the di-amino acids two hydrogen atoms are replaced by NHg groups 

/NH2 
and these have the general formula R — C^COOH. Lysine, histidine and 

\NH2 
cystine belong to this group. 



102 PUTREFACTION [CH. 

alkalies, physical agencies such as superheated steam, the 
action of digestive or other ferments or the activities of 
bacteria, the protein molecule is decomposed and various 
cleavage products form. These substances may be classed 
as primary cleavage products, i.e. those which exist as 
radicals within the molecule, or as secondary products, i.e. 
those not existing pre-formed in the molecule but formed by 
transformation of the primary products. 

"When the protein molecule is broken down in the 
laboratory by processes similar to those brought about by 
the digestive enzymes which occur in the alimentary canal, 
the essential change is due to what is called hydrolysis: 
that is, the molecule unites with the water and then breaks 
up into smaller molecules. The first cleavage products, 
which are called proteoses, retain many of the characters of 
the original protein; and the same is true, though to a less 
degree, of the peptones, which come next in order of forma- 
tion. The peptones in their turn are decomposed into short 
linkages of amino-acids which are called 'polypeptides, and 
finally the individual amino-acids are obtained separated 
from each other" (Halliburton, 1916). 

It is important to realize that whatever method is used to 
decompose the protein molecule the process goes through 
all these stages and approximately quantitatively as well as 
qualitatively. Different agencies however carry the process 
to different stages and the characteristic chemical products 
brought about by putrefactive bacteria are due to their 
carrying the processes further and causing extensive second- 
ary cleavage changes. 

The conversions into proteoses, peptones and amino-acids 
are therefore changes which are common to all methods by 
which the protein molecule is dissociated, and chief interest 
centres upon the further changes in the amino-acids brought 
about by the putrefactive bacteria. Bacteria (and other 
fungi) are peculiar in being able to break down the amino- 
acids into bases and acids which, in general, have not been 
demonstrated as products of the metabolism of animals and 
the higher plants. 

As long ago as 1902 Czapek, and also Emmerling, pointed 



VII] PUTREFACTION 103 

out that the amino-acids furnish bacteria with abundant 
and available nutritive material. T^ie amino-acids are non- 
toxic bodies and include substances such as glycine (amino- 
acetic acid), alanine (amino-propionic acid), leucine (iso- 
butyl-a-amino-acetic acid), tyrosine, cystine, aspartic acid, 
glutamic acid, histidine and tryptophane. 

The secondary degradation products which result include 
bodies such as indol, skatol, skatol-carboxylic acid, skatol- 
acetic acid, phenyl propionic acid, phenyl acetic acid, 
^-cresol and phenol. In addition a number of simple bodies, 
such as ammonia, methane, carbon dioxide, sulphuretted 
hydrogen, hydrogen, etc., are formed as end-products. 

The precise chemical bodies which will be formed will 
depend upon a number of factors, such as the character of 
the bacteria concerned, the conditions of growth (especially 
as regards the presence or absence of oxygen), the available 
sources of nutriment other than the amino-acids, the tem- 
perature and the stage of the process. 

Hopkins and Cole (1903), for example, studied the changes 
produced in chemically pure tryptophane by putrefaction. 
They obtained indol, skatol, and skatol-carbonic acid by the 
action of aerobic bacteria and skatol-acetic acid with anaero- 
bic organisms, in this way showing that the tryptophane 
radical is the precursor of these substances in putrefaction. 

In the same way tyrosine is the precursor of phenol, para- 
cresol, para-oxy-phenyl acetic acid and other bodies. 

Most, if not all, of the sulphur in the protein molecule is 
contained in the amino-acid cystine and the offensive sulphur- 
containing bodies, such as hydrogen sulphide, methyl mer- 
captan (CH3SH) and ethyl mercaptan, produced during 
putrefaction are due to the breaking down of this amino-acid. 

In addition to these numerous products a very definite 
group of bodies^ chemically of the nature of amines, are 
formed in the later stages of putrefaction, and to these 
bodies, owing to the high toxicity possessed by some of them, 
the very greatest importance has been attached as a cause of 
bacterial food poisoning. 

A very characteristic action of putrefactive bacteria 
generally is their power to split off carbon dioxide from the 



104 PUTREFACTION [CH. 

carboxyl (COOH) group of the amino-acids with the pro- 
duction of amines according to the following equation : 
NHg—R— COOH = NHg— R— H + COg. 

In this way a whole series of bodies is formed which 
include the ptomaines of Selmi and Brieger and other bases, 
some of which are capable of exerting a poisonous action 
on man and animals. This decarboxylation of amino-acids 
seems to be a general reaction of a good many putrefactive 
organisms. 

As examples of such changes it may be mentioned that 
di-amino-valeric acid is converted into putrescine, di-amino- 
caproic acid (lysine) into cadaverine, and tyrosine into tyr- 
amine In the same way the poisonous and probably important 
body ^-imidazolethylamine is the amine of histidine. The de- 
carboxylation of amino-acids is not necessarily accompanied 
by a putrefactive odour or other obvious sign of bacterial 
action, but as Barger points out in the absence of bacteria 
decarboxylation of amino-acids does not occur. 

It is important to remember that ptomaines, in sharp 
contradistinction to toxins, are non-specific, i.e. they are 
not the products of intracellular metabolism specifically 
characteristic of the organisms which produce them. They 
are merely degradation products of the protein molecule and 
are elaborated by all bacteria that are capable of producing 
this degree of protein cleavage when grown on a suitable 
nutrient medium and under favourable conditions of growth. 
They may be produced by bacteria which possess no patho- 
genic power, while on the other hand highly pathogenic 
bacteria which are not powerful protein splitting organisms 
may produce little or no ptomaines. 

Owing to the importance which is still attached by some 
writers to these bodies and their historical interest, particulars 
of a few are given. For an extended account see Vaughan 
and Novy's book, Cellular Toxins (1903). 

Methylamine, CHgNHg. This is the simplest amine and 
has been obtained from decomposing herring, haddock and 
other fish. It does not possess any toxic action and very 
similar remarks apply to di- and tri-methylamine and to 
ethylamine. 



VIl] PUTREFACTION I05 

Putrescine (tetramethylenediamine) has been obtained 
from putrefying fish and other organic matter. Although 
recognizable about the fourth day of putrefaction it does not 
occur in appreciable quantity until about the eleventh day, 
while the amount increases as putrefaction continues. 

Cadaverine is similar in composition to putrescine with the 
addition of another CHg group. It has been isolated from the 
putrefaction products of many forms of protein. It can also 
be obtained from the amino-acid lysine by bacterial action. 

Van Slyke and Hart (1903) found a little putrescine in 
ordinary Cheddar cheese. Once formed putrescine and 
cadaverine appear to be very resistant to bacterial action. 

Putrescine and cadaverine are of interest because they 
have been found in the intestine, derived from the putre- 
factive decomposition of proteins, and sometimes in the 
urine in cystinuria. They are said to have some physio- 
logical properties, setting up, according to Behring, poisonous 
symptoms in mice, rabbits and guinea-pigs. Udranszky and 
Beauman, however, failed to obtain any evidence of intes- 
tinal irritation when dogs were fed with enormous doses of 
cadaverine. 

The choline group ot ptomaines includes choline, neurine, 
muscarine and betaine and is of more interest. 

Choline is a normal constituent of every cell, forming the 
nitrogenous portion of the lecithin molecule. It is only very 
moderately toxic, but the closely related neurine into which 
it may be transformed is highly poisonous. It has been 
suggested that one form of food intoxication is due to the 
choline, obtained from the lecithin in the food, being con- 
verted in the gastro-intestinal tract into neurine. 

Brieger obtained neurine in the putrefaction products of 
horse, beef and human blood after five to six days action in 
summer. 

Muscarine was obtained, accompanied by choline, by 
Schmiedeberg and Koppe from poisonous mushrooms. 

Both neurine and muscarine are extremely poisonous and 
very similar in their action. Subcutaneous injection of but 
I to 3 mg. of muscarine in man produces salivation, rapid 
pulse, reddening of the ^ace, weakness, depression, profuse 



I06 PUTREFACTION ^ [CH. 

sweating, vomiting and diarrhoea. Neurine acts very 
similarly. "The toxicity of these substances is so great that 
not a large amount would need to be formed by oxidation 
of choline to produce severe symptoms, although it is not 
known that this occurs actually in the body. When intro- 
duced by the mouth, the lethal dose of neurine is ten times 
as great as when injected subcutaneously, indicating that 
chemical changes in the gastro-intestinal tract offer some 
protection against intoxication by these substances when 
taken in tainted food. Choline, although by no means so 
poisonous as neurine, has a similar action when administered 
in sufficiently large doses. According to Brieger it is about 
Jq to 2V 3-s toxic as neurine" (Wells, Chemical Pathology). 

Mytilotoxine is chiefly of interest in that it is said to be the 
specific poison in connection with mussel poisoning and was 
obtained by Brieger in 1885 from toxic mussels. He was, 
however, unable to obtain it from ordinary mussels which 
were allowed to putrefy for sixteen days. According to 
Brieger it produces all the characteristic effects seen in 
mussel poisoning. Its connection with mussel poisoning is 
considered on p. 132. 

Alimentary toxaemia. 

Before considering the bacteriology of putrefaction or the 
part ptomaines or other putrefactive products play in food 
poisoning it is desirable, as throwing some light upon the 
problem, to briefly discuss some facts which have been 
elicited in connection with the question of alimentary tox- 
aemia in the human subject. This is a matter upon which 
great differences of opinion are encountered and indeed is 
one which bristles with difficulties. It bears upon the 
question of putrefaction since it is evident that processes 
closely analogous to putrefaction take place in the intestine 
of animals, not only abnormally but normally, with the pro- 
duction of very similar products. 

It has already been pointed out that the primary degrada- 
tion products of protein decomposition are the same whether 
caused by putrefactive bacteria or by the action of enzymes 
in ordinary digestion. According to ^trasburger at least one 



VII] PUTREFACTION I07 

third of the faeces in man consists of bacteria, while in 
diarrhoea this proportion is even greatly increased. Indol, 
skatol, phenol, and cresol are all bodies which are formed in 
the alimentary tract by bacterial action upon the proteins 
and when formed in excess they are absorbed by the intes- 
tines, oxidized into indoxyl, skatoxyl, etc., and eliminated' 
in the urine. 

The toxic effects of indol and skatol are not very striking 
when given by the mouth, but symptoms such as irritability, 
headache and flight of ideas are recorded by Herter (1907) 
after feeding with large doses of indol. He notes that the 
quantity of indol administered to produce these symptoms 
was probably in excess of any amount that would be ab- 
sorbed from the intestine, even in the most pronounced 
pathological condition. 

It has been suggested that the indol in the intestine may 
be, in part at least, a product of ordinary intracellular 
protein metabolism, but the experiments of Ellinger and 
Gentzen (1903) showed that tryptophane when fed or in- 
jected subcutaneously causes no increase in indican in the 
urine, whereas its injection into the caecum causes much 
indicanuria thus demonstrating that it results only from 
intestinal putrefaction. 

The formation of amines, identical with or allied to the 
ptomaines of Brieger, has also been demonstrated in the 
human intestine. As already mentioned the di-amines 
putrescine and cadaverine have been found in the urine and 
faeces in cases of cystinuria, while they have also been found 
in the stools of cholera patients; further, cadaverine has 
been found by Dombrowski in the faeces of a healthy man. 
In view, however, of their low toxicity they can hardly be 
regarded as likely sources of toxaemia to any serious extent. 

In recent years a number of interesting examples have been 
brought forward showing that in the intestine certain of the 
non-toxic amino-acids may be converted into poisonous 
amines by decarboxylation through bacterial action. Tyro- 
sine under the action of faecal bacilli has been converted into 
tyramine by Barger and Walpole, while by the same agencies 
tryptophane is converted into its corresponding poisonous 



I08 PUTREFACTION [CH. 

amine. Tyramine has indeed been found to occur in ripened 
cheese due to bacterial action upon the tyrosine in the cheese. 

Of special interest is the base ^-imidazolethylamine (or 
/3-i) produced from histidine by splitting off carbon dioxide. 
It was first prepared synthetically by Windham and Vogt 
(1907), and then by Ackermann (1910), who obtained it by 
the action of putrefactive bacteria on histidine. About the 
same time it was detected in ergot and its physiological 
action investigated by Dale and Laidlaw. Mellanby and 
Twort demonstrated that it was produced in the alimentary 
canal and isolated a bacillus of the colon type from the 
intestines capable of producing it from histidine, while 
Berthelot has also isolated a bacillus from the intestine with 
this property. It is important to note that Mellanby and 
Twort found their bacillus as an inhabitant of the normal 
intestine and not in abnormal conditions only such as epi- 
demic diarrhoea. 

Summarising available facts it would appear to be 
established that bodies possessing poisonous properties, indol, 
skatol, and especially certain poisonous amines, are produced 
from the cleavage of proteins by bacterial action in the 
normal intestine. It is further evident that under ordinary 
circumstances the human organism is capable of dealing 
with them without the production of any symptoms. This 
defensive mechanism has not been fully explained, but as 
long ago as 1899 Herter and Wakeman showed that the 
living cells of the body, especially the hepatic and renal cells 
and the epithelial cells of the intestinal tract, have the power 
of absorbing considerable quantities of indol as well as of 
phenol and combining with them so that these bodies cannot 
be recovered by distillation. The discrepancy between the 
fatal dose of toxins given by the mouth compared with when 
introduced under the skin is usually very great and postu- 
lates a powerful defensive mechanism. The liver would ap- 
pear to have very marked powers of destroying both toxins 
and alkaloids. 

The facts considered under alimentary toxaemia show that 
it is not sufficient to demonstrate that the food (putrefactive 
or otherwise) contains chemical bodies which exhibit toxic 



VII] PUTREFACTION IO9 

properties when introduced into the body under maximal 
favourable circumstances. To cause symptoms we have in 
addition to postulate some breaking down of the defensive 
mechanism, possibly in the first place of the mucous mem- 
brane of the intestine, allowing their absorption and non- 
destruction by the liver. 

The bacteriology of putrefaction. 

Although a good deal of work has been done on the subject 
of putrefaction the bulk of it is chemical in nature and the 
bacteriological studies usually refer only to the activities 
of certain selected organisms. Undoubtedly the chemical 
changes which make up the process of putrefaction can be 
brought about by many bacteria, while in ordinary putre- 
faction it seems fairly certain that we have to deal with the 
activities of both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. 

Putrefactive anaerobes. 

There are really two separate points to consider: the known 
anaerobes which possess putrefactive properties and the 
anaerobes actually concerned in putrefaction as met with 
under natural conditions. 

As regards the latter point the subject has not been ade- 
quately studied, and we are not in a position to define the 
chief anaerobes taking part in natural putrefaction or even 
to affirm that there are any anaerobes which are so invari- 
ably present in putrefactive material and which take such a 
conspicuous part in the processes of putrefaction as to be 
fairly given the title of "putrefactive" anaerobes. Many of 
the organisms described below have been isolated from 
putrescent matter, but our knowledge of the relative import- 
ance and activities of the different types is still very indefinite. 
The classification of anaerobes is decidedly unsatisfactory, 
but considerable progress has been made recently, chiefly in 
connection with the investigation of these organisms in war 
wounds. 

Putrefaction being essentially a degradation of the protein 
molecule the activities of anaerobes in this direction must 
largely turn upon their biochemical characters, and from this 



no PUTREFACTION [CH. 

point of view Rettger (1908) has grouped them into four 
classes. 

(a) Those that produce very httle or no putrefactive 
change or fermentation. B. tetani is a good example. 

{h) Those with a strong putrefactive action on natural 
proteins but which fail in fermentative properties, as illus- 
trated by B. putrificus. 

[c) Those which are primarily fermentative organisms 
and whose putrefactive functions are very slight or perhaps 
absent. For example, B. welchii. 

(d) Those which have very marked putrefactive and fer- 
mentative properties, as shown best in the bacillus of malig- 
nant oedema and the bacillus of symptomatic anthrax. 

A simpler classification is that given by Mcintosh (1917) 
into non-proteolytic and proteolytic anaerobes. 

Of anaerobes possessing well-marked putrefactive pro- 
perties the following may be mentioned : 

B. putrificus. First described by Bienstock (1884), who 
found it in great abundance in ordinary street dust. The 
same bacillus was isolated by Klein from putrefying dead 
bodies and called by him B. cadaveris sporogenes. Bienstock 
also found his bacillus widely distributed in faeces and putre- 
fying material but never in the faeces of normal individuals. 
Passini and also Rettger however state that this organism 
does occur in normal faeces, but there is some doubt as to 
the identity of their bacilli with the true B. putrificus. 
Although widespread in nature it is difficult to isolate. A 
long slender bacillus which produces large terminal spores 
and then closely resembles B. tetani. Actively motile and 
Gram positive. Cultures have a strong putrid odour. Accord- 
ing to Mcintosh it ferments glucose, maltose, lactose, 
saccharose and starch, clots milk, frequently with partial 
digestion, and liquefies coagulated serum in two to three days. 
It is non-pathogenic to guinea-pigs by subcutaneous or 
intraperitoneal injection. 

Vibrion septique or Bacillus of malignant oedema. Until 
recently the descriptions of this organism have been in- 
definite and variable, and undoubtedly different bacteria 
have been included under this title. This organism is usually 



VIl] PUTREFACTION III 

isolated from infected animals, is common in wounds and is 
said to occur in soil and putrefactive material and to be a 
constant inhabitant of the normal intestinal tract (Mace and 
others). The latter point is doubtful. 

A good account of its cultural characters is given by 
Robertson (1918) of which the following points are of interest - 
in the present connection. A saccharolytic organism clotting 
milk in three to seven days, without putrefactive or digestive 
reaction on meat and inspissated serum. Spores are readily 
formed upon all media; they are oval in shape and central 
or subterminal in position. The organism is pathogenic for 
man and also for laboratory animals, producing a blood- 
stained oedema and deep red colour of the infected muscles. 

B. sporogenes. A widespread organism common in animal 
excreta and cultivated soil. A large motile bacillus sporing 
readily, the spores being usually subterminal. It digests 
milk and liquefies coagulated serum and also possesses some 
saccharolytic properties, fermenting glucose and maltose. In 
albumin containing media it produces an unpleasant putrid 
smell. Grown on meat it blackens it. It is non-pathogenic. 

B. welchii. Under this title is included a group of organisms 
with very strong fermentative but trifling proteolytic pro- 
perties. B. perfringens of Veillon and Zuber, B. aerogenes 
capsulatus and B. enteritidis sporogenes of Klein (a mixture) 
are all names of organisms identical with one or other types 
of this bacillus. These bacilli have been described as putre- 
factive organisms by Tissier (1912) and others, but they do 
not liquefy coagulated serum, peptonise milk or produce a 
putrefactive odour. Pathogenic to laboratory animals. 

For a good description of these and other anaerobes 
Mcintosh's (1917) Report may be consulted. They are men- 
tioned here as organisms commonly associated with putre- 
faction, but as stated above their exact activities in this 
direction are very doubtful. While several are pathogenic 
by injection none are known to be hurtful when given by 
the mouth. Indeed the spores of several of them are natural 
inhabitants of animal excreta, as indeed is the very patho- 
genic B. tetani. Metchnikoff fed dogs with huge quantities of 
B. perfringens {B. welchii), such as 200 to 500 c.c. of broth 



112 PUTREFACTION |CH. 

cultures, and noted progressive loss of weight with slight 
anaemia and, when the animals were killed, some evidence 
of sclerotic changes in the kidneys. As Ledingham (1913) 
remarks it is surprising that nothing worse happened after 
such heroic dosing. 

Putrefactive aerobes. 

Those to which the greatest share in putrefactive changes 
have been ascribed are the proteus family (particularly 
Proteus vulgaris) and to a lesser extent B. coli and allied 
bacteria. It is probable that many sporing aerobes, such as 
B. suUilis and its allies, also play a part in putrefaction. 

The putrefacti\^e properties of B. proteus (using the term 
as a convenient general one to cover Proteus vulgaris and 
other strains of this family) seem to have been a good deal 
exaggerated. According to most observers these organisms 
can invariably be isolated from putrid meat (see Addendum 
IV), but this is not the writer's experience as regards Proteus 
vulgaris. 

All the members of this family are short, actively motile. 
Gram negative, non-sporing bacilli, aerobic and grow better 
at 20-25° C. than at 37° C. Their characteristic gelatine 
colonies are well known and the gelatine is rapidly liquefied. 
Cultures in materials containing albumin or gelatine have a 
putrefactive odour and become alkaline. They produce 
indol, ferment glucose, saccharose and maltose but not 
lactose. Milk is clotted and then peptonized. Coagulated 
serum is liquefied. 

While the above gives the characteristic characters of a 
typical strain of B. proteus there are many variations and the 
group is a very ill-defined one. 

Rettger and Newell (1912) tested a large number of B. pro- 
teus strains and found that they had no power to initiate 
changes in proteins. When other sources of nitrogen (pep- 
tones, etc.) are present, however, this organism will rapidly 
attack proteins. Herter and Broeck (191 1), for example, 
remark from their work, "The study of the products of the 
growth of Proteus shows that, to some extent at least, it is 
a putrefactive organism. It destroys a native albumin 



VIl] PUTREFACTION II3 

(casein) and it produces ammonia, primary amines, hydrogen 
sulphide, fatty acids of a high molecular weight, aromatic 
oxyacids, indol and indol acetic acids, all of which are 
associated with putrefaction/' 

Tissier (1912) found that the action of B. proteus upon 
albumin is qualitatively less (i.e. about two-thirds) than that 
of the putrefactive aerobes, but that B. proteus splits up the 
protein molecule much further. The products never give the 
biuret reaction, the quantity of amino-acids is always less 
and the quantity of ammonia always greater. 

The putrefactive abilities of B. coli are said to be some- 
what similar, but less marked than those of B. proteus. 

No definite studies have been made of the large number of 
other aerobes which play a part in the putrefactive disinte- 
gration of the protein molecule. Scientific investigation on 
modern lines is very desirable. 

The relative share of anaerobes and aerobes in 
putrefaction. 

Pasteur considered that putrefaction could only occur in 
the absence of free oxygen, and this view was upheld by 
Nencki, Bienstock and other workers. In putrefaction, as it 
actually occurs, it is evident that both aerobes and anaerobes 
play a part but something depends upon the interpretation 
of the word "putrefaction." Thus Rettger (1908), using the 
term in the restricted sense of only including the bacterial 
decomposition of albuminous matter accompanied by the 
formation of foul smelling substances, takes the view that 
the action of the obligate aerobes is one of ordinary dissolu- 
tion or digestion and that real putrefaction is the work of 
obligate anaerobes alone. 

Bainbridge (191 1) showed that certain anaerobic bacteria, 
including B. coli, B. enteritidis, B. proteus, Staphylococcus 
pyogenes aureus, were unable of themselves to attack and 
decompose pure egg-albumin and serum-protein. Sperry and 
Rettger (1915) confirmed these observations and also showed 
that certain putrefactive anaerobes (B. putrificus, B. oede- 
matis maligni, B. anthracis-symptomatici) are also devoid of 



114 PUTREFACTION [CH. 

this property. The observations to the same effect of 
Rettger and Newell with proteus strains have already been 
mentioned. 

Rettger, Berman and Sturges (1916) carried the work a 
stage further and showed that these organisms, aerobes and 
anaerobes alike, were unable to initiate decomposition 
changes in proteins when the latter were the only source of 
nitrogen. When soluble proteins (peptones and proteoses) 
were tested the non-gelatine liquefying organisms acted 
similarly, but the gelatine liquefiers such as Staphylococcus 
aureus, Proteus vulgaris, B. suhtilis and B. prodigiosus 
rapidly decomposed the soluble proteins into products 
which no longer gave the biuret reaction. In other words 
the proteins were only attacked if a proteolytic enzyme was 
also present. If the cultural methods adopted were such that 
the bacilli added contained no enzymes, even the gelatine 
liquefiers could not decompose pure proteins. 

The term "putrefaction" covers an exceedingly complex 
series of changes in organic matter of the highest chemical 
complexity. It is evident that under natural conditions, when 
numerous types of bacteria gain access to the decomposing 
material, many different organisms are given an oppor- 
tunity to play a part. Bacteria, such as B. suhtilis, which 
produce proteolytic ferments may be spoken of as putre- 
factive organisms equally with types such as B. putrificus, 
since they produce enzymes which alter proteins into bodies 
upon which the true putrefactive bacilli can act. We can 
adopt the narrow terminology of Rettger and exclude these 
organisms as non-putrefactive, but taking the broader view 
of putrefaction as embracing the whole range of the changes 
from the preliminary hydrolysis of the protein molecule to 
the production of foul smelling bodies it is obvious that 
aerobes and anaerobes both play a part in it, and it is not 
possible with present knowledge to accurately disentangle 
their several activities. Under certain circumstances on the 
other hand (for example, in tinned meats) changes com- 
parable to if not identical with putrefactive changes may 
occur and be the work of one or two types of bacilli. More 
investigations in this direction are desirable. 



VII] PUTREFACTION II5 

Critical consideration of the evidence incriminating 
putrefactive food as a cause of food poisoning. 

While tainted meat is nearly universally accepted as a 
cause of illness the facts already given show that no very 
clear evidence is available as to why precisely such food is 
harmful. 

The possibilities of harm appear limited to one or more of 
the following : 

1. Due to the toxic action of degradation products of the 
protein molecule. 

2. Due to toxins (endo- or exo-) produced by the growth 
of definite putrefactive bacilli in the food outside the body. 

3. Due to the ingestion of putrefactive bacilli which 
elaborate their poisons and exert their toxic action in the 
human intestine. 

The first possibility is non-specific, the two latter suggest 
that certain of the putrefactive bacteria are specifically 
pathogenic. 

Each may be considered in detail. 

Due to toxic protein degradation products. It has been 
shown that the chemical changes grouped under the term 
putrefaction are brought about by the activities of many 
bacteria, both aerobes and anaerobes, and consist of the 
production of a large series of chemical substances formed 
out of, and due to the breaking down of, the protein molecule. 
These substances are not specific products produced ex- 
clusively by putrefactive bacilli, but are products common 
to all agencies which have the power to break down proteins. 

The most striking of these bodies, since a number of them 
possess markedly poisonous properties, are the diamines 
isolated and studied by Brieger and others and known as 
ptomaines. Not unnaturally the demonstration of the pro- 
duction of such highly toxic bodies during putrefaction led 
to a wide acceptance of the view that these bodies were the 
cause not only of the harmfulness of tainted meat but of 
food poisoning in general, a view crystallized by the wide 
acceptance of the term "ptomaine poisoning" as one synony- 
mous with food poisoning. 

8—2 



Il6 PUTREFACTION [CH. 

As regards ptomaines these bodies appear to be present in 
putrefying organic matter if the processes are allowed to go- 
on long enough. These poisonous amines are not however 
produced in the early but only in the later stages of putre- 
faction and usually do not begin to appear until putrefaction 
has been in progress for a week. A study of the work of the 
earlier investigators, who isolated and determined their 
pathological properties, shows that they were only isolated 
by them after putrefaction had been allowed to continue 
under optimum conditions for some time, usually several 
weeks, and long after the most obtrusive signs of putrefaction 
had set in. They represent late protein degradation products. 
Under ordinary commercial conditions no one would be 
stupid enough to vend such food, no one would be rash 
enough to eat it. In other words, ptomaines are only pro- 
duced when the food is far too nasty to eat. 

In the second place the toxicity of ptomaines when 
administered by natural channels has been enormously ex- 
aggerated. The view of the intensely poisonous properties of 
ptomaines was almost entirely founded upon the results of 
inoculation experiments in animals. The introduction of 
such bodies alien to the animal economy direct into the 
tissues might very well set up toxic symptoms and there is a 
whole range of substances, such as snake venoms, products of 
pathogenic organisms, etc., which are nearly harmless by the 
mouth but intensely toxic when introduced under the skin. 
It is well known that many bacterial toxins, such as tetanus 
toxin, are extremely pathogenic by inoculation, but for 
which relatively enormous doses must be given by the 
mouth to induce any symptoms. 

Experiments demonstrating toxicity by the mouth for 
these ptomaines are very few, and the writer has not come 
across any direct evidence that feeding with ptomaines pre- 
pared from putrefying meat has reproduced the symptoms 
of food poisoning. 

It must also be mentioned that the methods by which 
ptomaines have been isolated are very faulty and the 
majority of the experiments have been undertaken with 
impure bodies, and some of the symptoms produced were 



VII] PUTREFACTION II7 

probably due to these impurities. Boeklish long ago showed 
that in preparing ptomaines from putrefying fish the most 
poisonous properties were possessed by the extraction fluid 
freshly prepared from putrefying broth. During the process 
of preparing the bases the toxicity of the extract diminished. 
Klein fed some mice on portions of a meat pie which had given 
rise to symptoms of poisoning in human beings and the mice 
were made ill and died ; after keeping the pie for a few days 
it acquired an intense odour of putrefaction and at the same 
time lost its poisonous properties; mice fed on it remained 
unaffected. 

Ptomaines being disposed of there yet remains the possi- 
bility that other non-specific protein degradation products 
produced in putrefaction may cause food poisoning symp- 
toms. It has already been explained that protein decom- 
position products identical with those produced in putre- 
faction are normally produced in the human intestine and 
that, for the most part, they cause no symptoms or meta- 
bolic disturbance. Some of these bodies, e.g. sulphuretted 
hydrogen, indol and skatol, possess toxic properties, but only 
when introduced into the body in some way other than by 
the alimentary canal or when given in very large and con- 
tinued doses. The writer has carried out several series of 
experiments which show how late these bodies are produced 
in the ordinary putrefaction of meat and it is evident that 
they are not produced in sufficient quantities in decom- 
posing meat at any stage at which enough would be eaten to 
cause food poisoning attacks. Indeed the recorded symptoms 
from the ingestion of large quantities of these substances are 
not those associated with an outbreak of food poisoning. 
When the subject of alimentary toxaemia was discussed it 
was shown that the defensive powers of the animal organism 
to protect itself from these non-specific protein degradation 
products present in the intestine are very considerable and 
effective. For any of these degradation products to be a 
cause of food poisoning we must postulate their early appear- 
ance in the food in such quantities that they can upset the 
protective mechanism of the body (intestinal cells, liver, 
etc.) to such an extent that they will be absorbed in amounts 



Il8 PUTREFACTION [CH. 

large enough to cause symptoms. It is a possible hypothesis, 
but not only does there happen to be no evidence to support 
it, but on the other hand the writer has found that these 
bodies are not produced in meat in any quantity at stages at 
which anyone would be likely to eat it. 

Consideration of the above facts makes it most unlikely 
that the symptoms of food poisoning are due to any of the 
ordinary non-specific degradation products of the protein 
molecule, while as regards one group of them — the ptomaines 
— it must be accepted as certain that they play no part in 
food poisoning resulting from food putrefaction. 

The term "ptomaine poisoning" is clearly incorrect and 
its retention is unfortunate and misleading as it leads to a 
faulty conception of the pathology of the condition, and 
what is worse to the neglect of proper methods of investiga- 
tion and prevention. It is to be hoped that it will speedily 
be relegated to the limbo reserved for unsubstantiated 
theories. 

Due to toxins produced by the activities of putrefactive 
bacilli. The important part taken by anaerobes in putre- 
faction has been explained and it is a feasible hypo- 
thesis that these and certain putrefactive aerobes might 
produce specific toxins (exo-toxins or endo-toxins). Apart 
from B. hotulinus, which is not a putrefactive anaerobe, 
there is no evidence of the formation by these organisms of 
toxins which are pathogenic when introduced by the mouth. 
Some of the putrefactive anaerobes, such as B. sporogenes 
and B. putrificus, are quite non-pathogenic even by injection; 
other anaerobes, such as B. welchii or Vihrion septique, possess 
marked pathogenic properties when injected into laboratory 
animals, causing severe local and general symptoms and 
usually death. They also produce toxins which reproduce the 
symptoms on injection. These facts suggest that these toxin 
producing anaerobes might be responsible for poisonous 
properties in decomposing food, but this hypothesis is 
negatived by the fact that they are not toxic when fed and 
indeed several of them, including the powerful toxin pro- 
ducer B. welchii, are natural intestinal inhabitants. 

As regards the putrefactive aerobes it is constantly stated 



I 



VIIJ PUTREFACTION II9 

that B. proteus is a cause of food poisoning. This claim is 
based in part on the fact that it is a powerful protein decom- 
posing organism, in part because it is an organism possessed 
of some toxicity and lastly because it has been found etio- 
logically associated with a number of outbreaks of food 
poisoning. 

The first part of the claim has been dealt with when the 
general toxicity of the protein degradation products was 
discussed. The pathogenicity of this group of organisms is 
discussed in detail in Addendum IV (p. 123) . It is there shown 
that while they may cause toxic symptoms by injection 
the evidence is conflicting and weak as to their pathogenicity 
when introduced by feeding. Certain strains do exhibit toxic 
properties when fed, but there is no clear evidence that 
anything comparable to an attack of food poisoning can be 
induced. 

The association of B. proteus with food poisoning out- 
breaks is discussed in Addendum V (p. 126). This shows 
that for most of the outbreaks reported as due to B. proteus 
the evidence is of the slenderest, while for none of them is 
definite proof forthcoming. 

The writer has carried out a number of feeding experiments 
with putrid meat the details of which have not yet been 
published. For example five different kittens were fed with 
highly putrid meat from different sources, each animal 
receiving from three to six feeds, usually on consecutive 
days, with watery emulsions of the decomposed meat. No 
signs of food poisoning resulted while, apart from a consider- 
able but often temporary loss of weight, or diminution of 
rate of natural increase, no symptoms were observable. In 
contrast with these a rabbit injected subcutaneously with 
but I c.c. of washings from three days' old putrid meat died 
four days after the injection. In this case no bacterial 
cause of death could be detected, but in another instance 
B. welchii was recovered from the tissues and the post-mortem 
appearances accorded with death from that organism. 

These experiments support the contentions expressed as to 
the absence of toxins in putrid meat capable of causing 
symptoms by feeding. 



120 PUTREFACTION [CH. 

Due to putrefactive bacilli elaborating poisonous toxins 
in the alimentary tract. This view suggests that the 
conditions in the intestinal tract are likely to be especially 
favourable for the elaboration of such toxins and is merely 
an extension of the view already dealt with. If these putre- 
factive bacilli cannot elaborate poisons in vitro it seems 
unlikely they can do so in vivo and there is no evidence. 
Also such a view requires some incubation period to allow 
of their formation, and in cases of putrid meat poisoning it is 
generally stated there is little or no incubation period. 

Dealing with putrefaction generally and without attempt- 
ing to restrict it to the activities of the products of B. proteus 
or any single bacillus, it may be said that available evidence 
is at present insufficient to establish that putrefactive 
changes are a cause of food poisoning. As a cause of ex- 
tensive outbreaks putrefaction can certainly be excluded. 
Apart from these we are still left with a possibility that 
limited outbreaks and individual attacks of illness may be 
due to the consumption of meat in a state of early decom- 
position. In such cases the symptoms can conceivably be 
due to the protein degradation products which result from 
the chemical changes caused by putrefactive bacilli, whether 
amines or the products of further disintegration such as 
indol, skatol, mercaptan, etc., but to acquiesce in this 
hypothesis we must suppose that the quantities of such 
degradation products swept into the intestine when tainted 
food is consumed are so considerable in amount that the 
defensive mechanism of the body is for the time overborne, 
and either these poisonous bodies, or others naturally present 
in the intestine, are absorbed and reach the circulation in 
amounts capable of producing definite symptoms. While 
the possibility of such a succession of events cannot be 
altogether rejected there is no reliable evidence, that the 
writer has been able to unearth, that it does occur. 

Another, and on the whole more probable, supposition is 
that the symptoms must be ascribed to specific toxins 
elaborated by certain of the putrefactive bacilli. At present, 
however, there is no reliable data associating any putre- 
factive bacillus with the production of such specific toxins 



VII] PUTREFACTION 121 

acting through the intestinal tract, but it is possible that 
noxious effects might be exerted by the toxins of two or more 
acting symbiotically. 

Tainted food is universally suspect, possibly quite justifi- 
ably suspect, but neither the degree of its malevolence nor 
the precise cause of its harmfulness has been placed upon a 
scientific foundation. 



REFERENCES. 
(Including Addenda IV and V.) 

Ackermann (1910). Zeit. f. physiol. Chemie, lxv. 504. 
Bainbridge (1911). Journ. of Hygiene, xi. 341. 

Barger (1914). The Simpler Natural Bases (Monographs on Bio- 
chemistry) . 
Barger and Walpole (1909). Journ. of Physiol, xxxviii. 343. 
Berthelot (1913). Compt. rend, de la Soc. de Biologie, lxxiv. 575. 

(1914 a). Ann. de I' Inst. Pasteur, xxviii. 132. 

(1914 ft). Ibid. XXVIII. 839, 913. 

Bertrand (1914). Ibid, xxviii. 121. 

Bertrand and Berthelot (1913). Lancet, p. 523. 

Bienstock (1884). Zeit. f. klin. Med. viii. i. 

(1899). Archiv f. Hygiene, xxxvi. 335. 

(1901). Ibid. XXXIX. 390. 

(1906). Ann. de I'lnst. Pasteur, xx. 497. 

Bierotte and Machida (1910). Miinch. med. Woch. lvii. 636. 
Booker (1897). Johns Hopkins Hosp. Reports, vi. 159. 
Cantu (191 1). Ann. de I'lnst. Pasteur, xx.v. 852. 
Dale and Laidlaw (1911). Journ. of Physiol, xliii. 182. 
Del6pine (1903). Journ. of Hygiene, iii. 68. 

Discussion of Alimentary Toxaemia (1913). Various speakers. Proc. 
Roy. Soc. of Med. Vol. vi. Parts i. and 11. No. 5 and No. 7 
(supplements) . 
Ellinger and Gentzen (1903). Hofmeister's Beitrag, iv. 171. 
Gliicksmann (1899). Centralb.f. Bakt. i Abt. xxv. 696. 
Groot (1918). Ann. de I'lnst. Pasteur, xxxii. 299. 
Halliburton (1916). Essentials of Chemical Physiology, 9th Edition. 
Herter (1907). The common bacterial infections of the digestive tract. 

New York. 
Herter and Broeck (1911). Journ. of Biol. Chem. ix. 491. 
Herter and Wakeman (1899). Journ. of Exp. Med. iv. 307. 
Hopkins and Cole (1903). Journ. of Physiol, xxix. 451. 
Horowitz (191 6). Ann. de I'lnst. Pasteur, xxx. 307. 



122 PUTREFACTION [CH. 

Jensen (1903). "Kalberruhr," KoUe und Wassermann, Handbuch der 

Pathogenen Microorg. iii. 779. 
Klein (1890). Report of Medical Officer, Local Gov. Board for 1890, 

p. 196. 
Ledingham (1913). Brit. Med. Journ. i. 821. 
Levy (1894). Archiv f Exp. Path. u. Pharm. xxxiv. 342. 
Levy and Thomas (1895). Ibid. xxxv. 109. 
Mandel (1912). Centralb. f. Bakt. i Abt. Orig. lxvi. 194. 
Martin (1901-2). Med. Officer's Report, Loc. Gov. Board, 1901-2, p. 395. 

(1902-3). Ibid. 1902-3, p. 496. 

(1903-4). Ibid. 1903-4, p. 461. 

Mcintosh (1917)- Special Report No. 12 Medical Research Committee. 

Mellanby and Twort (191 1). Lancet, 11. 8. 

Metchnikoff (191 4). Ann. de I' Inst. Pasteur, xxviii. 80. 

Ohlmacher (1902). Journ. of Med. Research, vii. 411. 

Passini (1905). Zeit.f. Hyg. xlix. 135. 

Pauly (1917)- Miinch. med. Woch. lxiv. 377. 

Pergola (1910). Centralb. f. Bakt. i Abt. Orig. liv. 418. 

(1912). Ibid. LXiii. 193. 

Pfuhl (1900). Zeit.f. Hyg. xxxv. 265. 

Plimmer (1912). The chemical constitution of the proteins, 1. 

Rettger (1906). Journ. of Biol. Chem. 11. 71. 

(1908). Ibid. IV. 45. 

and Newell (1912-13). Journ. of Biol. Chem. xiii. 341. 

Rettger, Berman and Sturges (1916). Journ. of Bad. i. 15. 

Robertson (1918). Brit. Med. Journ. i. 583. 

Sacquepee and Loygue (1914). Compt. rend, de la Soc. de Biologic, 

Lxxvi. 820. 
Schellhorn (1910). Centralb. f. Bakt. i Abt. Orig. liv. 428. 
Schumburg (1902). Zeit.f. Hyg. xli. 183. 
Silberschmidt (1898). Zeit.f. Hyg. xxx. 328. 
Smith, Theobald (1894). Trans. Ass. of Am. Phys. ix. 85. 
Sperry and Rettger (1915). Journ. Biol. Chem. xx. 445. 
Tissier (1912). Ann. de I'lnst. Pasteur, xxvi. 522. 
Tissier and Martelly (1902). Ann. de I' Inst. Pasteur, xvi. 865. 
Van Loghem and Loghem-Pouw (191 2). Centralb. f. Bakt. Orig. lxvi. 

19. 
Van Slyke and Hart (1903). Amer. Chem. Journ. xxix. 150. 
Vaiighan (1913)- V. C. Vaughan, V. C. Vaughan, junr, and J. W. 

Vaughan, Protein Split Products, 1913. 
Vaughan and Novy (1903). Cellular Toxins, 4th Edition. 
Vincent (1909). Bull, de I'Acad. de Med. lxii. 338, 
Wells (1914). Chemical Pathology, 2nd Edition. 
Wesenberg (1898). Zeit.f. Hyg. xxviii. 484. 
Zweifel (1911). Centralb. f. Bakt. i Abt. Orig. lviii. 115. 



VII] B. PROTEUS 123 

ADDENDUM IV. 

NOTES ON THE DISTRIBUTION AND PATHOGENICITY 
OF B. PROTEUS. 

The earlier accounts give this organism, or rather group of organisms, a 
very wide distribution in nature under saprophytic conditions. Proteus 
vulgaris is said to be very common in soil, contaminated water, in most' 
decomposing and decaying substances and to be a frequent inhabitant of 
the animal intestine. The group of organisms conveniently included under 
the term B. proteus has not been very exactly defined and there is some 
difference of opinion and practice as to the organisms to be included under 
this designation. 

Cantu (1911) carried out an extensive investigation upon the distribu- 
tion of B. proteus in nature, examining rather over 2000 samples from 
diff'^rent sources. Unfortunately he does not state clearly the amounts of 
each substance examined, so the results are not particularly conclusive. 
The greatest prevalence (20 per cent, or over) was found in the following: 

Number of Number in which Percentage 
Material samples examined B. ^roier/s found prevalence 

Tainted meat 22 22 100 

Dung 25 20 80 

Excreta of poultry on a meat diet 30 20 66-6 

Garden soil 52 23 44-2 

Human excreta : diarrhoea cases 40 16 40 

Uncooked sausage 30 10 33-3 

Melons 30 7 23-3 

Salad 20 4 20 

Fairly prevalent also on celery (17-5 per cent.), banana (15 per cent.), 
cheese (15 per cent.), mouth cavity (12-5 per cent.), flies from dung 
(12 per cent.). 

On the other hand this organism was only found in seven out of 200 
samples of milk, once out of 190 samples of air, absent from 100 bread 
samples, ones out of eighty samples of drinking water and absent from 
ninety samples of ice. The distribution was very variable as out of 392 
samples of raisins, prunes, grapes and pears it was not found once, while 
prevalent on melons and bananas. 

Groot (191 8) using the same method as Cantu obtained the following 
results : 

Material 

Adult excreta or intestinal contents 

Putrefactive meat 

Garden soil 

Nursing infants' excreta 

Excreta of older children 

The prevalence on meat foods was also shown by Zweifel (1911). who 
examined 248 samples of Leipzig "hackfleisch" obtained quite fresh, from 
which he isolated Proteus bacilH in 165 cases (66 per cent.). All the strains 
were non-pathogenic to mace by feeding. 

Sacquepee and Loygue (1914) examined fifty samples of sausages, ham, 
pork pies, etc., and found these bacilH present in eighteen cases (36 per 
cent,). 



Number of 


Number with 


Percentage 


samples 


Proteus 


positive 


22 


8 


36 


8 


8 


100 


7 


4 


51 


26 


14 


54 


23 


2 


85 



124 B. PROTEUS [CH. 

Bierotte and Machida (1910) investigating the germ content of the organs 
of quite healthy domestic animals found Proteus vidgaris twice in fifty-four 
organs from eleven animals. 

The writer has specially examined a considerable number of samples of 
garden soil and the excreta of healthy animals for these bacilli and has 
failed to find them in most cases, and is inclined to think them not so 
widespread as is supposed. On the other hand, they can almost invariably 
be found in meat after the onset of putrefactive changes. 

In pathological conditions, apart from food poisoning, B. proteus has 
been given a considerable disease-producing role by a number of investi- 
gators. Jensen considers this organism to be the cause of some forms of 
calf dysentery. Jaeger came to the conclusion that Weil's disease (infectious 
jaundice), an acute infectious disease characterised by jaundice, was due 
to a variety of B. proteus, a view supported by other investigators. B. 
proteus has been established as a rare cause of suppuration of various 
kinds in man, and it must be considered as a feebly pyrogenic bacillus. 
Pauly (1917) has recently given a number of such instances. 

The most important disease for which this organism has been advanced 
as being etiologically connected is epidemic infantile diarrhoea. Of earlier 
writers Booker (1897) and also Jeffries and Baginsky concluded that 
Proteus vulgaris and other organisms played a part in the condition, but 
they did not suggest this organism as the sole cause. 

This conception was revived by Metchnikoff and his school. Metchnikoff 
in 1914 summed up his conclusions as follows: "The chief microbe in the 
diarrhoea of nurslings is Proteus. Its presence is nearly constant in our 
cases of this disease, also its pathogenic role when administered by the 
mouth, either alone or associated with other microbes, demonstrates its 
preponderating importance." 

While this conclusion is by no means accepted generally, undoubtedly, 
according to this French school, B. proteus does seem to be abundantly 
present in this condition. For example, Metchnikoff, during 1910 and 
1913, investigated bacteriologically 218 cases and isolated Proteus from 
204 of them (93-6 per cent.). Bertrand (19 14) in fifty-five cases of infantile 
diarrhoea found Proteus vulgaris in every case, while he only isolated this 
bacillus in two out of twenty-four samples of excreta from infants suffering 
from diseases other than that of the alimentary canal. Horowitz (1916) 
investigated an epidemic of acute gastro-enteritis in Petrograd in August, 
1913, and studied sixty-three cases, finding B. proteus in twenty-four (38 
per cent.). The strains isolated showed high virulence to guinea-pigs by 
intra-peritoneal injection but were without effect when fed. 

A number of earlier investigators have shown that B. proteus may be 
possessed of considerable pathogenicity when injected into small rodents. 
From the different experiments it would appear that this organism is one 
with very varying virulence, that any toxic symptoms are essentially in 
proportion to the dose and that pathogenic effects are usually, but not in- 
variably, due to toxins produced outside the body rather than to a true 
infection. Comparatively few feeding experiments appear to have been 
made with this organism, and the results are very conflicting. The following 
may be mentioned in addition to those referred to under the individual 
outbreaks recorded in Addendum V. 

Sidney Martin (1901-04) carried out a series of investigations upon 
the products of Proteus vulgaris. He found a toxic substance in the bodies 



VII] B. PROTEUS 125 

of this bacillus readily extracted from the dried bodies by distilled water. 
The physiological action of this substance in fatal or moderate doses was 
the production of a great lowering of body temperature in the rabbit, 
sometimes over 7° Fahr., the production of rapid evacuation of the intes- 
tinal contents and the causation of great bodily weakness, in some cases 
followed by collapse and death. This toxic body was found in the filtrate 
of broth cultures, diminishing in those over two weeks old, and is an 
excretion of the bacillus. It was not completely destroyed by heat, but' 
the physiological effect was weakened. 

Other products of this organism, which are more correctly described as 
putrefactive products, such as the aromatic alcoholic extract, and the foul 
smelling bodies which are removed by distillation, have but a slight 
physiological action. 

Unfortunately Martin does not appear to have carried out any feeding 
experiments, and his investigations throw little light upon the power of 
B. proteus to produce toxins which can cause diarrhoea by feeding, 

Metchnikoff (1914) gave a young chimpanzee by the mouth several 
culture tubes of B. proteus, isolated from an infant suffering from diarrhoea, 
and the animal suffered from gastro-enteritis and died after four days, 
with abundance of B. proteus in the alimentary tract. Nursing rabbits a 
few days old were fed with B. proteus in broth and white of egg and a number 
of them died, i.e. twenty-two out of thirty-seven. The signs were those of 
experimental cholera and only one rabbit showed diarrhoea. Experiments 
with such young animals are not however very impressive. 

Herter and Broeck (1911) carried out a few feeding experiments with 
two strains of B. proteus vulgaris. Young guinea-pigs and nursing kittens 
were unaffected. Of three monkeys (Macacus rhesus) fed daily with 50 c.c. 
of broth cultures, two were unaffected even after a month's feeding, while 
the third showed diarrhoea with green stools. After li months the animal 
became very weak and was killed. The walls of the large intestine were 
thickened, congested, and shov.'^ed numerous small ulcerations. Cultures 
from the spleen and blood were sterile. The blood showed a slight agglu- 
tination reaction (i to 50) to B. proteus. 

Pergola (1910 and 1912) isolated B. proteus from sausages which were 
associated with a small outbreak of illness at Tugo in Italy. The bacillus 
isolated was very virulent to guinea-pigs, rabbits, mice and rats, both by 
inoculation and feeding. In cats the effect was variable. Usually the disease 
set up was acute, but in some cases protracted infection with subsequent 
death resulted. Some of the prolonged cases were after feeding. The 
interna] organs were usually sterile but the bacillus set up enteritis and 
could easily be isolated from the intestinal contents. The outbreak is 
described in Addendum V. 

Berthelot (1914 b) studied the pathogenicity of a strain of proteus 
obtained from a case of infantile diarrhoea. Subcutaneous injection of 
broth cultures into guinea-pigs and rabbits caused a local abscess, if the 
cultures were young, but death if old or if given in large amount. Intra- 
peritoneal or intravenous injections all caused death. Intraperitoneal 
injections of the living bacterial bodies alone caused death in guinea-pigs 
and rabbits in amounts equivalent to 2-5 mgrm. of dried microbes, the 
bacilH being abundant in the heart blood. Seven days' old broth cultures 
after the bacilU were killed were also always toxic intraperitoneally or 
intravenously. Unfortunately no feeding experiments were carried out. 



126 B. PROTEUS [CH. 

It may also be mentioned that Jensen claimed to have set up symptoms 
of calf dysenter)'^ in those animals by feeding them with broth cultures of 
B. pro feus. 

A point in regard to the toxicity of B. proteus \Ahich may be of con- 
siderable importance is the power which it seems to possess of increasing' 
.the pathogenicity of other organisms. I.ovy and Thomas (1895), for 
example, found that the virulence of the cholera spirillum was raised by 
injecting cultures of proteus precipitated by alcohol. Vincent (tqoq) 
found this organism present in severe cases of typhoid fever and that mixed 
cultures of proteus and typhoid bacilli were very virulent to rabbits. 

On the other hand, Theobald Smith (1894) found when B. suipestifer 
and proteus were grown together that while the virulence of the latter 
organism was raised that of B. suipestifer was diminished. 

Metchnikoff found that greater pathogenicity to quite young rabbits 
was shown when they were fed with a mixture of cultures of B. proteus 
and B. welchii, than when either were fed separately. Similar results were 
obtained with B. proteus and other organisms and Metchnikoff concluded 
that the pathogenic action of B. proteus in infantile diarrhoea was increased 
when acting with some other microbes. 

Berthelot (191 4 a) following up Metchnikoff 's work produced diarrhoea 
in young rats by feeding them with sterilized milk containing B. proteus 
and B. aminophilus (a bacillus closely allied to B. lactis aerogenes). B. pro- 
teus fed alone set up no symptoms. When infection occurred B. proteus 
was isolated, in a number of cases, from the heart blood of the rats. 

These facts suggest the possibility that any toxic properties of putre- 
factive meat may be due to a symbiotic action between B. proteus and other 
aerobic or anaerobic organisms. 



ADDENDUM V. 

FOOD POISONING OUTBREAKS ASCRIBED TO B. PROTEUS. 

A number of food poisoning outbreaks have been definitely ascribed to 
B. proteus. The following is a brief summary of the most important and 
most frequently quoted outbreaks: 

I. Outbreak described by Levy (1894). Eighteen persons who frequented 
a certain restaurant were suddenly attacked with bloody diarrhoea, 
vomiting, depression and slight fever. Convalescence was very protracted. 
Several of the cases were very severe, and one patient died. The incubation 
period is not stated. 

The outbreak was ascribed to 23. proteus on the following grounds: 

(a) The meat used was stored in a refrigerator. This had a strong odour 
of decomposition when examined and the floor was covered with a 
slimy brown crust which had an unpleasant stale odour and contained 
abundance of B. proteus. Both the raw and the cooked meat were kept 
for several days in the ice-chest. 

(6) In the fatal case proteus bacilli were isolated post mortem from 
the intestinal contents although not from the heart blood. 

(c) The proteus bacilli isolated were pathogenic to animals, and when 
injected caused haemorrhagic diarrhoea with the presence of proteus in 
nearly pure culture in the stools. 



VII] B. PROTEUS 127 

(d) The symptoms in the patients and in the inoculated animals were 
said to be similar. The post mortem findings in the fatal case were similar 
to those shown in animals killed by sepsin. 

It will be noted that no proof is advanced that B. proteus was present 
in or on the actual food eaten (this was, presumably, not examined); that 
the bacillus was not isolated from the fatal case apart from the intestine, 
the latter fact being of small significance since this organism is sometimes 
a natural intestinal inhabitant, and that no animal-feeding experiments 
were carried out. 

The outbreak is apparently ascribed to B. proteus because such bacilli 
virulent on injection into laboratory animals were found in a situation 
where they could have contaminated the food which caused the outbreak. 
In view of the wide distribution of proteus this is wholly insufficient 
evidence. 

2. Mansfield. In August, 1897. Described hy Wesenherg (1898). Sixty- 
three persons were attacked after eating chopped-up meat derived from 
an emergency-slaughtered cow, the meat being eaten either raw or in the 
form of slightly-cooked liver. The cow suffered from a traumatic peri- 
cardial inflammation. The meat had been stored in a very damp cellar 
and piled up piece upon piece. It showed commencing decomposition. 

A proteus bacillus was isolated from the meat, but as the latter already 
showed marked decomposition when it reached the laboratory this is not 
surprising. This bacillus when injected into mice and guinea-pigs was 
virulent. 

Those who had eaten the food after cooking remained unaffected. The 
symptoms were diarrhoea, headache, body pains, muscular weakness, vertigo 
and faintness. All recovered. 

Here the diagnosis of proteus as the cause is based upon finding it in 
the meat in a condition which proved virulent on inoculation. 

3. Outbreak in March, 1898 described hy Glilcksmann (1899). Two 
persons (father and son) fell ill a few hours after eating a little half-smoked 
pork derived from a pig slaughtered on account of disease (nature not 
ascertained). One of the patients died. 

The smoked meat was only examined four days after the fatal meal, 
and it had then undergone decomposition. When examined, colonies of 
B. proteus vulgaris were very abundant. Broth cultures of the isolated 
proteus injected into mice and guinea-pigs killed them with symptoms of 
diarrhoea. 

Here, of course, there is no evidence at all of a proteus infection. 

4. Outbreak in Sivitzerland described by Silberschmidt (1898). In Septem- 
ber, 1898. Forty-five cases due to the consumption of one kind of sausage 
(so-called "Landjager "). The symptoms, for the most part, came on about 
twenty-four hours after eating. The chief symptoms were very profuse 
diarrhoea, severe cramp-like body pains, fever — often marked — vomiting 
in most cases and marked prostration. The duration of the disease was 
considerable, most of the cases being about two weeks under treatment. 
One death occurred, two and a half days after eating. No bacteriological 
investigation of the patients was made. Apart from a rancid taste, the 
sausage meat appeared normal. B. proteus vulgaris and a coli-like bacillus 
were isolated from the sausage meat. 

Some feeding experiments were made, but they were quite inconclusive. 
Mice and guinea-pigs fed with dry pieces of sausage were unaffected, but 



128 B. PROTEUS [CH. 

when pieces of the sausage were kept for several days in broth and then 
fed to mice and guinea-pigs, the latter died and B. proteus was isolated 
from the intestinal content, but not from the organs. 

Here, obviously, there is no evidence that proteus was the cause of the 
outbreak. 

5. Hanover. Described by Pfuhl (1900). During the night of April 12th, 
1900, eighty-one soldiers were suddenly attacked with acute gastro-enteritis, 
four to twelve hours after eating sausage meat. The symptoms rapidly 
subsided. 

The sausage meat was not packed into skins, but into jars. It was 
prepared on April nth from heart, lungs and stomach of three different 
animals. It was cooled in the preparation-room. The sausage meat, in 
appearance, taste and smell, was perfectly normal. No evidence of putre- 
factive products could be obtained by injecting animals with alcoholic and 
ether extracts. No information was available as to the health of the 
animals. 

The bacteriological examination of the sausage meat showed, in addition 
to other bacteria, B. proteus in abundance. 

Two rats and two mice were fed with the sausage. The rats each received 
about ten grammes and were ill, suffering from diarrhoea, but recovered. 
The mice received about five grammes and were also ill with diarrhoea. 
One was killed twenty-four hours after feeding and B. proteus (P. mirabile 
Hauser) was isolated from the blood and internal organs, cocci and a sarcina 
being also present. The other mouse died three days after feeding, and 
proteus was isolated from the internal organs. The proteus isolated from 
this mouse was slightly virulent. 

While there is slightly more evidence in this outbreak pointing to proteus 
toxins as the cause, there is no etiological connection established as the 
human cases do not appear to have been bacteriologically investigated. 

The feeding experiments do not prove much since it is not uncommon 
to recover B. proteus, B. coli, etc., from mice which have died after feeding 
with foods such as sausage meat. Schellhorn (1910), for example, fed a 
large number of mice with germ-free meat and 50 per cent, died, usually 
within three to five days. 115 mice died in this way. As a rule no bacilli 
were found post mortem but in a few cases B. coli were found. B. proteus 
was not isolated by him from any of the mice. 

The sausage meat in Pfuhl's cases was prepared from stomach, etc., so 
the presence of proteus in it is of no special significance, and even if the 
strain present was toxic to mice when administered in sausage meat, this 
fact would not necessarily indicate an etiological connection between the 
sausage meat and the outbreak. 

On other grounds, it is unlikely that B. proteus was the cause of illness 
in these cases. The rapid onset and quick subsidence point either to chemi- 
cal poisons or to toxins only. It is improbable that the poisonous elements 
in this meat were due to B. proteus, since the meat was quite healthy in 
appearance, odour, etc., and there does not appear to have been sufficient 
time for any products of the kind to be formed. 

It is more likely that the outbreak was due to heat-resistant toxins, the 
product of some other organism, the organism itself having been killed 
in the process of preparing the sausages. The feeding experiments do not 
negative this, since the heat-resisting toxins might kill the mice and allow 
secondary invasion by intestinal bacilli, such as proteus. 



VIl] B. PROTEUS 129 

The report does not say when the sausage meat was examined. If not 
examined immediately the presence of proteus is easily accounted for. 

6. Hanover. Described by Schumburg (1902). In May, 1901, thirty- 
four persons became ill after eating sausage. The symptoms came on after 
a few hours and consisted of nausea, profuse diarrhoea, repeated vomiting, 
weakness and debility. In most of the cases the symptoms subsided after 
twelve hours, and only in one or two persons did they continue until next 
day. 

The sausage meat was not put into skins but was used loose. When 
bacteriologically examined it showed two kinds of bacteria — one a member 
of the potato bacillus group, the other proteus. A rat and two mice fed 
with the sausage meat died after twenty-four hours and proteus was 
isolated from the spleen, liver and heart blood, and was abundantly present 
in the intestinal contents. The strain isolated from these animals was 
virulent when fed to mice and rats. 

Apparently no examinations at all were made of the patients, and the 
proof rests solely upon finding a B. proteus in the food which was virulent 
to mice and rats. 

7. Ohio, 1897, Ohlmacher (1902) described an outbreak in November, 
1897, affecting 218 inmates of the Ohio Hospital for Epileptics, all of whom 
were attacked within a period of three days with severe food poisoning 
symptoms. No deaths although many were severely ill. Only the patients 
eating in one block of dining rooms were affected and the only article 
peculiar to these dining rooms was the oatmeal. This oatmeal was prepared 
by steaming the batch of twenty gallons in three large pans and then 
allowing it to cool slowly overnight, it being warmed up again in the 
morning. On the day before the outbreak, owing to repairs being executed, 
a large quantity of old plaster in the ceiling of the room used for steaming 
was knocked off and replaced with new, and the pans, being only covered 
by loosely fitting bins and sheets of paper, must have been infected with 
abundance of the dust. The oatmeal would be at about body temperature 
when so infected. A simple bacteriological examination of the plaster 
dust showed B. coli communis and a bacillus closely resembling Proteus 
vulgaris. 

Broth tubes inoculated with plaster scrapings and incubated for twenty- 
four hours gave cultures rapidly fatal to guinea-pigs when injected intra- 
peritoneally. Freshly-cooked oatmeal infected with plaster dust and 
incubated for twelve hours caused no appreciable effect when fed to 
rabbits and cats. The infected oatmeal was treated by the Stass-Otto 
method for ptomaines but the yellowish oily liquid so obtained had no 
effect on three cats. 

. The author only gives a guarded opinion as to the cause of the outbreak 
but suggests that either of the above bacilli, or both in combination, may 
have been the cause of the outbreak. 

This outbreak is unusual and interesting on that account, but there is 
no evidence incriminating B. proteus and the general particulars given are 
against any such view. It was quite possibly due to a Gaertner group 
organism which would easily be overlooked by the simple bacteriological 
methods used. 

8. Lugo, 1908. Pergola (1910) studied a small outbreak of food 
poisoning (number of cases not given) at Lugo, near Ravenna, in May, 
1908, following the use of sausages made from pig's meat. From the 

S. F. p. O 



130 B. PROTEUS [CH. VII 

sausages he isolated two bacteria, one of which {B. mesentericus vulgatus) 
was non-pathogenic, the other {B. proteus) was pathogenic. In a second 
paper (1912) he discusses the pathogenic properties of this strain of proteus. 
He made no faeces or vomit examinations, carried out no agglutination 
tests with the blood of those attacked, made no investigations as to the 
source of the sausages or possibility of infection, but states that he found 
no harmful chemical substances in the sausages. 

On this extremely slender evidence this outbreak is added to the list of 
those caused by B. proteus. 

9. Outbreak in 1912 described by Mandel. An outbreak of forty-six 
cases of food poisoning in a regiment, ascribed to eating stewed fish. No 
deaths. None of the fish was available for bacteriological examination, 
but the stools of twenty -eight cases were examined. From a number of 
them, seven in almost pure culture, Mandel (1912) isolated bacilli which 
he describes as B. proteus vulgaris. The organisms isolated were not all 
identical and do not agree in all characters with this organism. 

The sera of a number of the patients were tested against the isolated 
organism and ten of them gave a distinct positive reaction (macroscopic) 
in a dilution of i in 25. A similar positive reaction was given by one of 
the cases which showed no proteus strains in the excreta and by one of 
the cooks v/lio was bacteriologically negative, and who was not attacked. 
The diagnosis of B. proteus infection is based upon these bacteriological 
findings and while more decisive than in most of the above cases cannot 
be said to supply definite or satisfactory proof. 

From this summary of outbreaks it is evident that for none of them was 
it established that B. proteus was etiologically concerned. 



CHAPTER VIII 

CERTAIN SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD POISONING 

In general, food poisoning outbreaks are more conveniently 
grouped according to their bacterial origin rather than in 
relation to the kind of food infected. Certain kinds of food 
poisoning are, however, on account of their special nature, 
more conveniently studied from the food standpoint. These 
will be briefly considered in the present section. 

Mussel poisoning. 

Epidemics of typhoid fever have been frequently traced to 
the consumption of mussels as well as to other shellfish. In 
addition to these epidemics outbreaks of acute poisoning 
attributed to the consumption of mussels have been recorded 
on numerous occasions. 

In the recorded outbreaks the onset has usually been 
rapid and within a few hours of consuming the mussels, but 
occasionally it has been delayed for even as long as eighteen 
to twenty-four hours. While the ordinary food poisoning 
symptoms are met with to some extent, i.e. vomiting, 
diarrhoea and epigastric pain, they may be absent, and only 
very rarely are dominant symptoms. The main symptoms 
are referable to the nervous system. In the Leith outbreak, 
for example. Combe, who described it, gives the chief 
symptoms as — prickly feeling in the hands and feet, feeling 
of constriction of the mouth and throat, difficulty in swallow- 
ing and speaking freely, numbness about the mouth, gradu- 
ally extending to the arms, and muscular weakness of the 
limbs. 

In the Dublin cases, described by Sir Charles Cameron, 
the chief symptoms were vomiting, dyspnoea, swelling of 
the face, want of co-ordination of movement, spasms, 
especially of the arms. The onset started with prickly pains 
in the hands. 

9—2 



132 MUSSEL POISONING [CH. 

Almost identical symptoms were described by Schmidt- 
mann in cases observed by him in some workmen and mem- 
bers of their famihes who had eaten mussels obtained from 
a newly constructed dock. In these cases there was no 
abdominal pain or diarrhoea, but nausea and vomiting 
occurred. One person died in i| hours, another after 3 J 
hours and a third five hours after eating the mussels. 

In a case described by Hill (1895) the symptoms came on 
almost immediately after eating the mussels and death after 
about an hour. 

The symptoms are often very severe and not infrequently 
fatal, as shown in the following particulars of a few out- 
breaks in the British Isles : 



Place 



Number of Cases Number of Deaths 



Leith 


1827 


30 


2 


Liverpool 


1872 


2 


I 


Ramsgate 


1880 


2 





Liverpool 


t888 


3 


I 


Dublin 


1890 


7 


5 


Barry 


1909 


19 


I 




63 


10 



Case mortalit5^ 16 per cent. 

Many explanations have been advanced to account for the 
causation of mussel poisoning. These are carefully reviewed 
by Bulstrode in his report (1894-5) to the Local Government 
Board on "Oyster Culture in relation to Disease." The 
earlier views ascribing the pathogenic properties to copper 
poisoning, starfish spawn, mussels eaten during the spawning 
season, mussels eaten in a stale or dead condition, may be 
dismissed as untrue or inadequate as explanations generally 
applicable although metallic poisoning cannot be excluded 
as a possible cause of illness in individual cases or even in 
small outbreaks. 

The Wilhelmshaven cases directed attention into another 
field. From a number of the poisonous mussels Brieger 
obtained a poisonous base, which he regarded as a ptomaine, 
and called mytilotoxine. The symptoms produced in animals 
by the injection of this substance are, according to Brieger, 
similar to those produced in mussel poisoning. 



VIII] MUSSEL POISONING I33 

Salkowski (1885) found that the toxic substance was not 
destroyed by current steam. 

When mussels have caused illness it has invariably been 
found that they were taken from positions liable to sewage 
pollution, such as from dock walls or vessels in harbours. 
Although in opposition to this there is the undoubted fact 
that very large numbers of this shellfish, taken from sources 
equally exposed to sewage pollution, are eaten without 
harm, it is highly probable that their toxic properties are 
derived from their polluted surroundings. Schmidtmann, for 
example, found that healthy non-poisonous mussels placed 
in polluted water from which poisonous mussels were ob- 
tained themselves became poisonous, while the harmful 
mussels kept in clear running sea-water became non-toxic. 

No modern investigations appear to have been made upon 
the bacteria -causing poisonous properties in mussels, but 
McWeeney (1890), published some preliminary investigations 
and quotes Lustig as having, in 1888, isolated from the 
livers of specimens of mussels a bacillus rapidly pathogenic 
to rabbits and guinea-pigs. 

The rapidity of onset and (when fatal) rapidly fatal 
result make it evident that the symptoms are due to a 
chemical poison, while the peculiar symptoms differentiate 
this type from the ordinary food poisoning outbreaks. 

The most probable view is that mussels become poisonous 
from the production in them of chemical poisons elaborated 
by the vital activity of bacteria derived from their sewage 
contaminated surroundings, but we are ignorant of the 
special bacteria concerned, the conditions which cause the 
production of these poisons, and whether the toxic properties 
are due to mytilotoxine or to some other bacterial poisons. 

Very few outbreaks appear to have been reported in 
recent years, but it is desirable that the whole subject 
should be re-investigated by modern methods. 

Poisoning from other kinds of shellfish. 

Oysters eaten out of the season are said to cause gastro- 
enteritis, urticaria, and other symptoms, but acute and 



134 SHELLFISH POISONING [CH. 

intense poisoning of the type recorded under mussel poisoning 
appears to be rare. Two instances may be mentioned in 
both of which one or more of the oysters appeared not to 
have been perfectly healthy judged by the senses. 

In the case recorded by Casey (1894) a man ate eight 
oysters for supper, remarking at the time that one of them 
was bad. Others of the same lot were eaten by other persons 
with impunity and appeared to be quite fresh. The symptoms 
commenced about twelve or fourteen hours after the meal 
with pains in the back, violent abdominal pain, frequent 
vomiting and intense thirst; there was no diarrhoea. Later 
the patient collapsed and died forty-one hours after eating 
the oysters. 

Brosch (quoted by Novy) reported the case of an officer 
who died in twelve hours after eating some oysters which at 
the time were noticed to possess a bad taste. The symptoms 
began in a few hours and were more like those of botulism 
than mussel poisoning. 

Lobsters have been reported on several occasions as 
causing outbreaks of severe illness. Novy quotes a case in 
which a number of young people ate a mayonnaise made 
from canned lobsters. The symptoms were nausea, vomiting, 
much pain, severe headache, small, rapid pulse, and a slightly 
subnormal temperature. Neither urticaria, eye symptoms, 
nor paralysis occurred. 

Although not due to shellfish the case of poisoning from 
sardines reported by Stevenson (1892) was probably similar 
in nature. In this case a young officer ate six sardines on 
toast, from a newly opened tin, for breakfast. He said the 
fish tasted nasty. At lunch he was unwell and vomited soon 
afterwards, while more serious symptoms developed later in 
the day. He died the following day. The sardines were only 
examined five days after death but were then intensely 
toxic to rats and mice by feeding. 

Galeotti and Zardo (1902) report a considerable outbreak 
at Isola (Austria) in November, 1900, from the consumption 
of sea-snails {Murex hradatus). All the forty- three persons 
attacked had eaten sea-snails which three to five days pre- 
viously had been removed about five miles from the shore. 



VIIl] CHEESE POISONING 135 

The symptoms appeared within a short time after consump- 
tion of the molusks and were of the usual food poisoning 
rather than the mussel poisoning type. In certain cases less 
direct s5miptoms, such as haematuria, cramps, disturbance 
of speech, and muscular feebleness were exhibited. Five 
died but, although post mortems were made, bacteriological 
investigations were not carried out in these cases nor from 
the snails actually consumed. From the livers of sea-snails 
from the same region they subsequently isolated in pure 
culture a very virulent bacillus, which from the very incom- 
plete description appears to be a variety of B. coli or possibly 
a Gaertner group organism. It was highly pathogenic to 
guinea-pigs and rabbits by injection and killed rabbits in 
five to eight days when introduced into the stomach and 
also when fed to a dog. A year later they isolated what they 
describe as the same bacillus from snails from the same beds, 
but these possessed little or no pathogenicity. They take 
the view that some special unknown conditions had made 
this strain highly virulent and caused the outbreak. Ob- 
viously information upon many points not elucidated in the 
report is needed before this conclusion can be accepted. 

Cheese poisoning. 

Outbreaks of sudden illness from the consumption of 
cheese are not very uncommon, cases being more frequently 
recorded in the United States, but this is perhaps due to the 
special attention directed to the subject by Vaughan. 

The chief symptoms consist of diarrhoea, vomiting and 
abdominal pain. There is usually some degree of fever; rigors 
may be met with and symptoms of collapse are often present. 
The symptoms appear to vary greatly in severity, sometimes 
being very severe; no deaths were however recorded in 
either the Michigan (1883-4) or London (1901) outbreaks. 

The Michigan outbreak consisted of about 300 cases 
caused by the consumption of twelve different cheeses. It 
is not clear if they were obtained from the same source. The 
incubation period was mostly 2-4 hours, but in a few cases 
the symptoms were delayed up to 8-12 hours. 

In London (Newman, 1901) a considerable outbreak oc- 



136 CHEESE POISONING [CH. 

curred in 190 1, the cases being rather scattered: seventeen 
were traced in Finsburj/, twenty-one in Bermondsey, and 
others in different parts. The symptoms came on from two 
to eight hours after eating the cheese which was "Dutch 
cheese," and all made by one firm in Holland. In this out- 
break, as in others, the cheese was normal as regards taste, 
odour and appearance. 

The first scientific contribution to the causation of cheese 
poisoning was made by Vaughan in connection with the 
above-mentioned Michigan outbreak. From the aqueous 
extract of the cheese specimens Vaughan separated a cry- 
stalline poisonous body which he called tyro-toxicon. Tyro- 
toxicon is not an alkaloid, but in its chemical reactions, and 
to some extent in its physiological action, resembles diazo- 
benzene. 

This substance has since been isolated on a number of 
occasions from cheese which has caused outbreaks of poison- 
ing. In the London outbreak, mentioned above, the analyst 
who examined the cheese reported that he obtained a small 
amount of a body possessing the chief characteristics of 
tyro-toxicon, but this was only obtained from two out of 
four samples and then in small quantity only. Two other 
chemists examined samples but failed to isolate this poison. 

In this outbreak more than seventy cheeses were pur- 
chased by the wholesale firm and positive evidence of poison- 
ing was forthcoming for only a few of them. A bacterio- 
logical examination by Klein yielded no definite results. 
Although small quantities of tyro-toxicon were found and 
the outbreak was ascribed to this cause, the evidence re- 
corded does not satisfactorily prove this contention since it 
rests upon the fact that one analyst out of three, in two out 
of four samples, found quite small quantities of a body 
possessing the characteristics of tyro-toxicon. The bac- 
teriological investigations showed the presence of B. coli 
communis, Bacterium lactis and other bacteria, but no bac- 
teriological relationship to the outbreak was disclosed. 

Wallace (1887) mentions two outbreaks in America of 
poisoning associated with the consumption of cheese. In 
one at Jeanesville in January, 1886, over fifty persons were 



VIII] CHEESE POISONING 137 

suddenly taken ill while a similar but less extensive outbreak 
took place at Riverton some months later. No deaths. 
Tyro-toxicon was found to be present in both lots of cheese. 
In the Jeanesville case the cheese causing the illness was one 
of a lot • of thirty all received at the same time from the 
factory; twenty-seven had been sold and no illness resulted. 

Tyro-toxicon has also been isolated from poisonous cheese 
by Wolif and other investigators. 

A rather peculiar outbreak ascribed to cheese poisoning 
occurred at Aldershot in 1899 (B.M.J. 1899). Between 
August 26th and September loth twenty-seven cases oc- 
curred with three deaths, the chief symptoms being fever 
(ioo°-i03° C), vomiting and feeble pulse with, in severe cases, 
cramps in the calves. When these symptoms persisted for 
three or four days jaundice occurred in a good many of the 
cases. The rations included a daily allowance of cheese. 
Some of the patients however stated that they ate no cheese, 
while tinned beef and German sausages were also included in 
the ration. The cheese which was obtained from abroad was 
not abnormal in appearance or smell while, according to the 
contractor, it was supplied to other customers without com- 
plaint being made or illness resulting. The chief feature of 
interest in the outbreak is that twenty sheep happened to 
feed on the camp refuse, including potato peelings, onions, 
pieces of cheese, etc., and that some eight of them sickened 
and two died in two to three days. After burial three bodies 
were exhumed. From pieces of cheese obtained from the 
stomachs of these animals Luff found tyro-toxicon in fairly 
large quantity and one milligramme of this body injected 
into a rat killed it in three hours. Bacteriological examina- 
tion of the cheese from the sheep by Klein and Wright 
showed nothing worthy of note. 

Later investigations have shown that tyro-toxicon is not 
present in all poisonous cheeses, and that in such cases at 
least the harmful properties must be ascribed to other 
causes. 

Vaughan and Novy (1903) state that tyro-toxicon has 
also been found in milk in numerous instances and mention 
outbreaks described by Firth in 1887 in India, by Schearer 



138 CHEESE POISONING [CH. 

in 1886 and by Vaughan in 1887, in all of which tyro-toxicon 
was isolated. Wallace also describes an outbreak in which 
forty- three persons were taken ill and in which tyro-toxicon 
was isolated from the milk, and mentions a similar outbreak 
at Memphis. It is significant to note that there are few if 
any recent references to the finding of tyro-toxicon in cheese 
and all these reports date from the period when the chemical 
and ptomaine theory of food poisoning was predominant. 

Indeed in some of the more recent outbreaks tyro-toxicon 
has been looked for but not found. Taltaval andGies (1907), 
for example, made a very careful examination of a piece of 
cheese which had caused decidedly toxic symptoms similar 
to those described by Vaughan and Novy from poisonous 
cheese. They failed to find any tyro-toxicon or any alka- 
loidal substance. Coagulable proteins were absent but 
tryptophane, leucin, and tyrosine were found and they con- 
sidered that the poisonous matter was probably due to a 
toxic proteose. 

It may be mentioned as of some interest that Nelson (1916) 
has demonstrated the presence of indol, skatol, and phenol, in 
Limburger and Camembert cheese. These protein degrada- 
tion products were absent from Cheddar, Swiss and other 
cheeses. 

Bacteriological investigations have also been carried out. 
Vaughan and Perkins (1896) described an outbreak of twelve 
cases from eating cheese in 1895. From a piece of the 
cheese they isolated two bacilli, one of which elaborated an 
active toxin. This bacillus was a strain of B. coli communis 
or B. lactis aerogenes, chiefly differing from the former in its 
more rapid milk clotting power and its failure to produce 
indol. Both filtered and heated cultures rapidly killed 
laboratory animals. The toxins were partially heat resistant, 
not being entirely destroyed by fourteen minutes heating to 
100° C. 

Owing to a mistake in labelling, the toxicity of a sterilized 
culture was demonstrated upon a human subject who was 
made very seriously ill by the injection of ten drops of a 
concentrated (50 per cent.) germ free milk culture, the 
symptoms commencing within half an hour. 



VIII] CHEESE POISONING 139 

In subsequent investigations by Vaughan, organisms of the 
colon group were isolated which produced powerful toxins 
which were also heat resisting. Thus Vaughan and McCly- 
monds examined sixty-five samples of cheese from as many 
different manufacturers. Of these forty-nine were American 
green cheeses. Eight of the forty-nine samples were sent to 
the laboratory because persons eating them had suffered 
from nausea, vomiting and purging. The other samples 
were not known to be poisonous. Every one of the forty-nine 
samples of American green cheese furnished cultures which 
killed white rats, guinea-pigs and rabbits, the toxic organisms 
in all the samples being members of the colon group. The 
authors record that the cultures could be boiled without 
destroying their toxicity. 

Hoist (1896) records five different outbreaks of cheese 
poisoning observed by him within a period of five months. 
He isolated B. colt communis from each of the five lots of 
cheese (a Norwegian cheese called "Knet Kase"). He 
carried out some interesting feeding experiments with quite 
young calves. When calves were fed with B. coli from 
ordinary sources and from non-poisonous cheese, no diarrhoea 
or other symptoms were caused, but when calves were fed 
with the B. coli from the cheese — four strains from four 
separate outbreaks being used in individual experiments — 
the calves suffered from diarrhoea and in some cases died. 
In the latter case the bacilli were recovered post mortem 
from the spleen, blood, etc. The bacilli from the poisonous 
cheese were also highly virulent to rabbits. 

Symanowski (1913) describes an outbreak affecting twenty- 
seven persons in five households, who were suddenly attacked 
with vomiting, diarrhoea and colic, and which was due to 
eating infected cheese bought in the town market. A Gaert- 
ner strain [B. paratyphosus B) was isolated from the cheese 
and from the excreta of some' of the cases. In addition a 
number of samples of blood from persons attacked agglu- 
tinated this bacillus. 

It would appear to be probable that cheese poisoning, like 
other forms of food poisoning, is usually due to bacteria 
which produce powerful toxins. The bacterial investigations 



140 ICE-CREAM POISONING [CH. 

just recorded suggest that specially virulent strains of B. coli 
are concerned, but further investigation is desirable, and 
probably in a good many cases Gaertner group bacilli will 
be found to be the cause, if modern methods of identification 
are employed. 

Ice-cream poisoning. 

Although outbreaks of poisoning from eating ice-cream 
are not infrequent yet, making allowances for the numerous 
unrecorded cases, they are less numerous than . might be 
anticipated, in view of the unsatisfactory conditions under 
which much of this food is prepared and the fact that it is 
a substance which is an admirable nutritive medium for 
bacteria. It is true that it is subjected in preparation to 
some degree of heating, but this varies considerably, while 
the process of cooling afterwards is very slow and prolonged, 
and being often carried out amidst insanitary surroundings 
offers abundant facilities for subsequent contamination. 
Buchan (1910) in Birmingham found that the average 
duration of cooling after heating was about twenty-one 
hours. When vended, ice-cream frequently contains from i 
million to 300 million bacteria per cubic centimetre. 

Ice-cream has been the vehicle of spread in a number of 
typhoid fever outbreaks. The one at Eccles (Copeman, 1911) 
is a good example. 

In the series of British outbreaks in Table I six were 
spread by ice-cream. As an illustration that at Nuneaton 
in June, 1909, may be quoted. In this outbreak sixty-seven 
persons were attacked at ages varying from one to fifty 
years. The ice-cream used was composed of milk, eggs, 
sugar and gelatine. It was made one evening and allowed 
to cool (but not frozen) until the next morning when it was 
ready for sale about 9.30 a.m. It was all eaten that day. 
The chief symptoms were severe diarrhoea, vomiting and 
collapse and the incubation period for most casfes was from 
three to nine hours (twenty-four hours in one case). There 
were no deaths. B. enteritidis was isolated from the faeces 
of one sufferer while the blood serum of another agglutinated 



VIIl] POTATO POISONING 141 

this bacillus. No ice-cream was available for examination. 
In all the six outbreaks only one death was reported. 

The earlier observers reported poisonous chemical sub- 
stances in ice-cream. Thus Vaughan and Novy found tyro- 
toxicon in several samples of poisonous ice-cream and 
custard, Schearer reported the same substance in both 
vanilla and lemon ice-cream which had caused poisoning 
symptoms, while in 1896 Vaughan and Perkins reported the 
detection of another toxin in both ice-cream and cheese 
which had caused illness (about fifty cases from the ice- 
cream) . 

Although frequently grouped as a special class of food 
poisoning, ice-cream outbreaks do not differ in any essential 
particular from those due to the consumption of other foods 
and there is no scientific justification for retaining them as 
a special group. No further details therefore need be given. 

Potato poisoning. 

A considerable number of outbreaks of food poisoning 
has been reported from the consumption of potatoes. 
Earlier investigators, obsessed with the ptomaine theory of 
meat poisoning and. failing to find any source of ptomaines 
in potatoes, fell back upon chemical instead of animal alka- 
loids as the source of the mischief and ascribed the symptoms 
to solanine poisoning. The symptoms produced by solanine 
are said to be very similar to those of saponine, one of the 
ptomaines isolated from meat. 

Dixon Mann (1908) gives the chief symptoms of poisoning 
by berries containing solanine as vomiting and diarrhoea, 
with more or less collapse, pain in the stomach, cramps in 
the legs followed by clonic spasms, dilatation of the pupils, 
pallor, coldness of the surface, hallucinations and coma. 
Morris (1859), for example, gives particulars of a case with 
somewhat similar symptoms in a girl of fourteen who ate a 
number of potato berries with a fatal result three days later. 
The symptoms started a few hours after their consumption. 

With a chemical causation in fashion as the explanation 
of potato poisoning considerable attention was directed to 
the solanine content of potatoes causing disease symptoms, 



142 POTATO POISONING [CH. 

and it soon became evident that the amounts of this alka- 
loid present were quite insufficient to produce the symptoms, 
and indeed in some cases were less than in ordinary healthy 
potatoes. 

Meyer (1895), for example, found the solanine content of 
potatoes to vary from 0-04 to o-ii6 grm. per kilo according 
to the time of the year, while some young potatoes contained 
as much as 0-236 grm. per kilo. Potato sprouts and young 
green potatoes are rich in solanine and Meyer found as much 
as 0-580 grm. per kilo in little dwarf potatoes budded from 
old seed potatoes. Esser (1910) states that in midsummer 
the haulm contains 0-0925 per cent, of solanine, but late in 
summer only 0-0374 P^^ cent. He also found variations 
according to the nature of the soil. 

On the other hand Dieudonne (1904) found only 0-012 
grm. per kilo of solanine in potatoes suspected of having 
caused an outbreak of food poisoning. 

The dose of solanine necessary to produce symptoms of 
poisoning is not less than 0-2 to 0-4 grm. per kilo. Haselberg 
(1909) gave this alkaloid in considerably higher doses than 
this without any symptoms being caused. This writer 
records that the highest percentage of solanine he has found 
recorded in any potato poisoning outbreaks was in Weimar 
in 1897 when 0-426 per cent, of solanine was found. He 
remarks that perhaps this might be sufficient to produce 
poisonous symptoms if it can be assumed that at least i kilo 
of potato was taken and that all was absorbed. 

Schmiedeberg (1895) suggested that the amount of solanine 
was increased by bacterial action, while Weil (1900) found that 
two out of thirteen bacteria investigated by him increased 
the percentage of solanine. This observation seems unlikely 
and was not confirmed by Wintgen (1906). 

It may be mentioned that Long (1917) records a number of 
cases of poisoning of animals (horses, pigs, cows) from eating 
stocks of potatoes, but the symptoms he records are quite 
different from those which occur in human outbreaks. In 
these cases, since the quantities of potatoes eaten are so 
much larger, it is possible that the causation of the symptoms 
may be due to this alkaloid, particularly since in a number of 



VIII] POTATO POISONING 143 

cases sprouted potatoes, which contain a higher proportion 
of the alkaloid than ordinary potatoes, were consumed. 

On the whole it seems very doubtful if potato poisoning 
in man is ever caused by solanine poisoning, but the above 
particulars are interesting as showing how far a precon- 
ceived theory may be pushed to elucidate facts. 

One of the earliest outbreaks in Great Britain reported 
from eating potatoes is that described by Banks (1846). The 
potatoes were eaten for several meals by a family of seven 
persons, four of whom were attacked with severe symptoms, 
the most prominent being severe abdominal pain greatly 
increased by pressure, great tenderness of the rectum and 
anus, very pronounced constipation, nearly complete sup- 
pression of urine and symptoms of collapse. No narcotic 
symptoms were exhibited, neither were they those of ordinary 
cases of food poisoning. All recovered, but after a prolonged 
convalescence. A number of the potatoes exhibited black 
spots and fibres in their structure, and the father attributes 
the immunity of the other three cases to their having peeled 
the potatoes and removed the bad parts, a precaution which 
those attacked neglected to take. Banks considered that 
the outbreak was due to the consumption of potatoes in 
large quantities far advanced in decay. The outbreak was 
a peculiar one and was probably due to rather gross con- 
tamination, probably from fungi, and of a kind not now 
likely to be met with. 

The majority of the more recent investigations suggest 
that the poisonous symptoms are due to bacterial activity. 

Dieudonne (1904) described an extensive outbreak at 
Hammelburg in August, 1903, when 150 to 180 soldiers 
became ill two hours after dinner, the symptoms being of 
sudden onset and consisting of severe vomiting, intense 
diarrhoea, headache, collapse, etc. The symptoms began to 
subside after about seven hours in most cases and all ulti- 
mately recovered. The outbreak was ascribed to potato 
salad and from this Dieudonne isolated B. proteus. This 
bacillus was not virulent in pure culture but when mice were 
fed with previously sterile potato inoculated with this 
bacillus and grown for twenty-four hours at 37° C. they 



144 POTATO POISONING [CH. 

died in twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Mice fed with the 
salad died in twenty-four hours with severe gastro-intestinal 
symptoms. 

In considering these outbreaks three facts are noticeable. 
In the first place the symptoms are those met with in ordinary 
outbreaks of food poisoning from infected meat, milk, etc., 
and are not distinctive as in mussel poisoning. 

In the second place it is noteworthy that a large propor- 
tion have occurred amongst troops. Cortial (1889), for ex- 
ample, records an outbreak affecting loi soldiers. Schmiede- 
berg (1895) gives particulars of four outbreaks all amongst 
troops in garrisons, one affecting 357 soldiers, one 90, a 
third 125, and a fourth 43 men. All the 716 men so attacked 
recovered. 

Pfuhl in 1899 described an outbreak affecting fifty-six 
soldiers ascribed to the eating of salted potatoes. In thi^ 
instance the peeled potatoes contained 0-038 per cent, 
solanine when raw and 0-024 P^^ cent, after being boiled. 
On an average Pfuhl considered that every man who fell ill 
had 0-3 grm. of the alkaloid, a quantity which he considered 
sufficient to produce toxic results. 

The third distinctive point is the frequency with which 
the potatoes after peeling were kept in this condition until 
next day, or at least for a considerable interval, before 
cooking. The skins of unpeeled potatoes protect them from 
bacterial infection, but, as is well known, peeled potatoes 
are valuable nutrient media for bacteria. It is to this factor, 
and the accompanying specific bacterial infection, and not 
to any excess of solanine, that the frequency of potatoes as 
a cause of food poisoning is to be ascribed. For example, 
in the outbreak recorded by Pfuhl the potatoes concerned 
were peeled, placed in a vessel filled with water, and re- 
mained standing in the water until next day (in May). They 
were then washed and cooked for twenty-five minutes. 

In Dieudonne's outbreak the potatoes were boiled the 
night preceding the meal, then peeled and kept in this un- 
protected condition until the next day (in August) in bas- 
kets adjoining the camp kitchen. Dieudonne indeed quotes 
a very interesting instance in which the members of one 



VIII] POTATO POISONING I45 

company of a particular battalion became ill after eating 
potato salad which had been standing for twenty-four 
hours, while several other companies had two hours earlier 
eaten part of the same batch of potatoes without any 
untoward results. 

The only outbreak in England which the writer has come 
across is one at Norbiton (No. 70 in the series) in August, 
1910, and which after a careful study of the available facts 
he considers was probably due to potato poisoning. As no 
bacteriological examination of the potatoes was made it is 
impossible to be certain on this point. Potatoes were the 
only article eaten in common by all the sufferers. The 
persons attacked numbered 80 to 100, all having consumed 
their food at a fried fish shop, the meal being for the most 
part potatoes and fish fried in oil. The potatoes as purchased 
were good since half of them, cooked the evening before, 
were eaten without harm. The remaining half were washed 
and scrubbed, and left ready for frying on the following day. 
In this unprotected state they were probably infected in 
some unascertained way. This inoculated nutrient medium 
was kept for at least sixteen to twenty hours in a hot shop 
(in August) and was then fried with the fish. Probably the 
cooking in the oil killed the bacteria and left their toxins. 
No one appears to have asked or recorded whether the 
potatoes appeared good in the morning when they were 
used and no bacteriological examinations were made. 

Harris and Cockburn (1918) have recently re-investigated 
this subject in connection with an outbreak of food poisoning 
in Glasgow in November, 1917. From their tabular state- 
ment it would appear that sixty-one persons were attacked 
between November 23rd and 27th, of whom one died (aged 
five years) after an illness of thirty-one hours. In ten cases 
the illness lasted for two to three days, but for the remainder 
only for a few hours. The essential symptoms were head- 
ache, vomiting, diarrhoea and debility. The fatal case 
showed no indications of irritant poisoning and the immedi- 
ate cause of death was due to strangulation of the bowel, a 
condition which it was suggested was due to extreme retch- 
ing and vomiting. 

S.F.P. 10 



146 POTATO POISONING [CH. 

All the persons affected had partaken of potatoes from 
one source. The potatoes were normal in appearance and 
were part of a consignment of thirteen truck loads. The 
buds on quite a number of the potatoes showed evidence of 
sprouting, being about J inch in length, and their solanine 
content was estimated. 

The samples of potatoes from the household in which the 
fatal case occurred showed 0-041 per cent, of solanine, while 
a sample from the store and supposed to be from the same 
consignment gave 0-0079 per cent. No information is given 
as to the solanine content of the potatoes consumed by 
other persons who were attacked. 

Bacteriological examination of the potatoes and also of 
organs from the fatal case gave negative results. The 
potatoes bacteriologically examined were from the household 
of the fatal case, but apparently were not part of the potatoes 
actually consumed. 

The contention of the authors that the outbreak was 
undoubtedly due to solanine poisoning is not completely 
justified, or at least not proved. The potatoes were part of 
a large consignment most of which was eaten without any 
symptoms of poisoning, and which from the single analysis 
quoted appeared to have the ordinary low solanine content 
of potatoes. No evidence is submitted that the cases of 
poisoning coincided with instances in which the potatoes 
were eaten after sprouting and so presumably in a condition 
with a high solanine content. The analysis of potatoes from 
the household with the fatal case gives, it is true, a very 
high solanine content, but the report is by no means clear 
that the potatoes actually eaten were in this sprouting con- 
dition and says nothing as to whether other persons in this 
household consumed them without ill effects. The symp- 
toms were not those of poisoning by solanine as described 
above. 

REFERENCES. 

Shellfish poisoning. 

Brieger (1889). Virchow's Archiv, cxv. 483. 

Bulstrode. Supplement to the Medical Officer's Report L.G.B. 1894-5. 
(191 1). Report of Medical Officer of L.G.B. for 1909-10. 



I 



VIII] POTATO POISONING I47 

Cameron (1890). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 150. 

Casey (1894). Ibid. i. 463, 

Combe (1828). Medical and Surgical Review, xxiv* 

Galeotti and Zardo (1902). Centralb. f. Bakt. Grig. xxxi. 593. 

Hill (1895). Brit. Med. Journ. i. 301. 

Konig. Nahr. Genussen, 11. 103. 

McWeeney (1890). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 628. 

Neale (1909). Ibid. 11. 176. 

Novy (1915). Osier and McCrae's System of Medicine, 11. 450. 

Permewan (1888). Lancet, 11. 568. 

Salkowski (1885). Virchow's Archiv, cii. 578. 

Stevenson (1892). Brit. Med. Journ. u. 1326. 

Examples of mussel poisoning are also given in 
Brit. Med. Journ. (1857). Aug. ist, 657. 
Ibid. (1872), II. 592. 
Ibid. (1891), II. 749. 

Cheese poisoning. 

Hoist (1896). Centralb. f. Bakt. i. Abt. xx. 160. 

Nelson (1916). Journ. Biol. Chem. xxiv. 533. 

Newman (1901). Report of M.O.H. on Public Health of Finsbury, no. 

Symanowski (1913). Zeit. f. Medizinalbeamte, September 20th, 

No. 18. 
Taltaval and Gies (1907). New York Med. Journ. lxxxvi. 726. 
Vaughan and Novy (1903). Cellular Toxins. 
Vaughan and Perkins (1896). Archiv j. Hyg. xxvii. 308. 
Wallace (1887). Medical News, li. 69. 
(1899). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 1300. 

Ice-cream poisoning. 

Buchan (1910). Journ. of Hygiene, x. 93. 
Copeman (1911). Report to L.G.B. New Series, No. 51. 
Savage (1913). Ibid. No. 77. (Food Reports, No. 18.) 
Vaughan and Novy (1903). Cellular Toxins. 
and Perkins (1896). Archiv f. Hyg. xxvii. 308. 

Potato poisoning. 

Banks (1846). Dublin Journ. of Medical Science, i. (New Series), xxix. 

(Old Series), 267. 
Cortial (1889). Arch, de Med. et de Pharm. Militaire, xiv. 3. 
Dieudonne (1904). Deut. Militdrarztl. Zeit. xxxiii. 181. 
Esser (1910). Die Gifipflanzen Deutschlands. 
Harris and Cockburn (1918). The Analyst, xliii. 133. 
Haselberg (1909). Medizinische Klinik, v. 1196. 



148 POTATO POISONING [CH. VIII 

Long (191 7). Plants poisonous to live stock. 
Mann (Dixon) (1908). Forensic Medicine and Toxicology. 
Meyer (1895). Arch. f. exp. Path. u. Pharm. xxxvi. 375. 
Morris (1859). Brit. Med. Journ. September 3rd, 719- 
Pfuhl (1899). Deut. med. Woch. xxv. 753. 

Schmiedeberg (1895). Arch. f. exp. Path. u. Pharm. xxxvi. 373. 
Weil (1900). Arch. f. Hyg.i^xxviu. 330. 

Wintgen (1906). Zeit.f. Untersuch. der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, 
XII. 113. 



CHAPTER IX 

BOTULISM 

This interesting, but fortunately rare, type of food poison- 
ing has been recognized for nearly a century, but knowledge 
as to its true pathology only dates from 1895. Kerner in 
1820 reported upon a number of epidemics in various parts 
of Wiirtemberg and in 1822 reported a further ninety-eight 
cases with thirty-four deaths. Since these dates many other 
outbreaks have been reported, the greater number of the 
earlier ones occurring in Wiirtemberg or its neighbourhood. 
The majority of these earlier outbreaks were due to eating 
sausage, and the condition is often spoken of as "sausage 
poisoning." This name, however, is a very unsuitable one 
as the condition may be associated with many other kinds 
of foods. In particular it may 'be mentioned that a number 
of outbreaks have occurred in Russia, following the con- 
sumption of smoked fish, in which the symptoms bear a 
close resemblance to botulism and probably were examples 
of that condition. 

Outbreaks of botulism are rather rarely met with at the 
present time, but in view of the fact that cases of illness 
have recently occurred in this country which simulated this 
disease, some detailed consideration is necessary. The 
writer has been unable to trace the existence of a single 
definite outbreak in Great Britain. The case recorded by 
Stephenson (1892) of fatal poisoning of a young man from 
sardines was evidently due to a bacillus producing very 
powerful toxins and in some ways resembles this condition, 
but the recorded symptoms are not those of botulism. 

In America Dickson has reported a number of outbreaks 
and collected instances of others, and in a recent monograph 
on the subject^ (Dickson, 1918) he arrives at the conclusion 

1 The present chapter was written before this monograph appeared, but 
it was possible to incorporate a number of interesting points subsequently. 
Readers desirous of a more complete account of this condition are referred 
to this valuable monograph. 



150 BOTULISM [CH. 

that botulism is endemic in the United States, and is com- 
paratively common in the Pacific Coast States. 

In only a small proportion of the outbreaks recorded as 
botulism has the specific bacillus described below been 
isolated, the diagnosis being made upon the clinical data, so 
that it is desirable to describe the symptoms in some detail. 
The following account of the symptoms is largely taken 
from Van Ermengem's monograph upon the subject (Van 
Ermengem, 1912). 

The symptoms exhibited are very characteristic and 
strikingly different from those met with in ordinary cases of 
food poisoning. Indeed Van Ermengem states: "The symp- 
toms of botulismus are so uniform and true to nature that 
for the recognition of the disease clinical appearances alone 
are sufficient." 

The symptoms shown are almost entirely referable to 
lesions of the central nervous system. Prominent conditions 
are those referable to disturbance of the digestive tract — 
such as thirst, feeling of constriction of the throat, dysphagia, 
skin-like coating of mouth and pharynx, complete loss of 
appetite, obstinate constipation, and ocular symptoms — 
such as internal or external and more or less complete ophthal- 
moplegia, paralysis of accommodation, mydriasis, nystag- 
mus, internal strabismus. Other symptoms which may be 
met with are diuresis or complete anuria, complete loss of 
voice, prolapse or paresis of the tongue. 

The fatal cases show gradually advancing respiratory and 
cardiac failure due to progressive bulbar paralysis. 

Vomiting and diarrhoea are frequently absent, but may 
occur and if present are usually slight or transitory. Fever 
is never observed and indeed the temperature is usually 
subnormal, muscular cramps do not occur, consciousness is 
not impaired. 

The ocular symptoms usually develop in a progressive 
order. Amaurosis first occurs, then more or less complete 
accommodation paralysis frequently followed by ptosis, 
mydriasis, diplopia, etc. In cases which recover these ocular 
symptoms may last for many weeks. 

The case mortality may be as high as 30 to 50 per cent.. 



IX] BOTULISM • 151 

or even higher, and when death occurs it is usually in the 
first or second week. 

The clinical picture has to be distinguished from polio- 
encephalitis, bulbar paralysis and the different ophthal- 
moplegias. 

The symptoms usually appear twelve to twenty-four* 
hours after eating the infected food, but now and then are 
delayed as much as thirty-six to forty-eight hours. Only 
rarely do they appear earlier than twelve hours. 

The recorded pathological lesions in fatal cases are very 
slight and are chiefly in the direction of hyperaemia of most 
of the internal organs, and here and there small haemorrhages 
in the kidneys and spinal cord. Van Ermengem, however, 
points out that the lesions in man have not been extensively 
studied, nor by modern methods, and that there can be no 
doubt that severe and extensive histological changes take 
place similar to those which occur in animals inoculated 
with the toxin of Bacillus hotulinus and which especially 
manifest themselves in the cerebro-spinal centres. 

Dickson (1918) draws attention to the formation of 
characteristic thrombi and states that they are so uniformly 
present and are so characteristic in appearance as to be 
considered pathognomonic of botulism. 

The bacterial origin of this variety of food poisoning was 
first made clear by Van Ermengem, who in 1895 isolated 
B. hotulinus from a ham, the consumption of which had 
caused about thirty cases of botulism at Ellezelles (Belgium) 
in December of that year. The bacilli, in the form of spores, 
were present in considerable numbers in the intermuscular 
connective tissue of one of the three fatal cases and in small 
numbers in the spleen and contents of the large intestine. 

B. hotulinus is a large bacillus (4-6 /x long by 0-9 to i-2 /x 
wide) which sometimes forms short threads. It is slightly 
motile with four to eight flagella. Under suitable con- 
ditions, such as in an alkaline gelatine medium incubated at 
20°-25° C, it produces spores which are usually terminal 
but occasionally central. Spores are not formed at 37° C. 
The optimum temperature of growth is 20^-30° C. It is 
gram positive but does not hold the stain strongly. 



152 BOTULISM [CH. 

Growth is scanty in artificial media unless glucose is 
present or meat is used. It is an obligate anaerobe. Cultures 
have a rancid butyric acid odour. It liquefies gelatine, 
ferments glucose (with gas formation), but not saccharose or 
lactose, the growth in milk is scanty without coagulation or 
visible change. Mcintosh (1917) found that under good 
anaerobic conditions fair-sized colonies can be obtained in 
twenty-four hours on serum agar, while coagulated serum is 
not liquefied. This worker reports slight gas production 
with lactose and also with maltose, glycerine and starch. 
The spores are not highly resistant and are destroyed by 
fifteen minutes at 85° C. or thirty minutes at 80° C. (Van 
Ermengem). When dried they may retain their vitality for 
as long as a year. 

Its most characteristic property is the production of a 
very powerful toxin. According to Van Ermengem consider- 
able differences are met with in the virulence of the toxins 
produced in the different strains isolated. Toxin production 
is much more uniform when glucose is present in the nutrient 
culture medium. The bacillus (like B. tetani) will not grow 
to any extent in the animal body, but produces its poisonous 
effects by the toxins which it excretes into the nutrient 
material in which it is growing — a true exotoxin. When 
introduced into suitable animals (rabbits, monkeys, cats, 
pigeons, etc.) either by subcutaneous, intraperitoneal or 
intravenous injection or by feeding, the toxin reproduces in 
a very definite way the characteristic symptoms of botulism. 
As little as 0-0003 to o-ooi c.c. of a broth culture may kill a 
rabbit. In every case the symptoms only come on after an 
incubation period which usually is not less than twenty-four 
hours. The most characteristic symptoms by inoculation 
are produced with cats. 

It is rather characteristic that the symptoms can be readily 
reproduced by feeding, although of course considerably 
larger doses are required. Monkeys, guinea-pigs and mice 
are the most suitable for these feeding experiments. Small 
monkeys {Rhesus), for example, are killed in from 24-34 
hours, with all the symptoms of the condition, after feeding 
with small quantities of toxin. Cats are very resistant to 



IX] BOTULISM 153 

feeding and enormous doses must be given. On the other 
hand large numbers of the bacilU, apart from their toxin, 
can be fed to rabbits or guinea-pigs without causing poisoning 
symptoms, the organism being unable to produce its toxin 
in the animal body. 

The toxin is not highly resistant and is rapidly destroyed 
by heating to 70-80° C. 

Dickson (1917 a) noted that during the investigation of 
several outbreaks a number of fowls became ill with paralysis, 
etc., and died after eating food which had caused the human 
outbreaks. B. hotulinus was isolated from the food in the 
crop and gizzard. 

The pathological anatomy lesions in inoculated animals 
have been worked out with great care. Marinesco, and later, 
Kempner and Pollack, also Romer and Stein found early de- 
generation changes in the spinal grey matter, chiefly of the 
anterior horns, and in the medulla oblongata, while Van 
Ermengem found degeneration in the nuclei of the ocular 
nerves, the hypoglossal and the vagus. Cloudy and fatty 
degeneration of the cells of the liver, kidneys, and other 
organs also occur. Lesions of the cells of the cerebrum do 
not occur. 

According to Kempner and Schepilewski the toxin has a 
special affinity for cerebro-spinal tissue and is fixed and 
neutralized by admixture with brain substance. 

The methods and paths of infection have not been so 
satisfactorily demonstrated as the pathological nature of the 
condition. Outbreaks have most frequently followed the 
consumption of liver, blood and other varieties of sausage 
and also after eating ham, but have also been met with in 
connection with smoked meat, tinned meat, stuffed geese, 
raw and salted fish and from the use of certain non-meat 
foods, such as preserved beans. The majority of the recent 
American cases have been traced to home-canned vegetables 
or fruit. Cases with somewhat similar symptoms, but with- 
out bacteriological confirmation have been described after 
the consumption of crab and of oysters. In but few of these 
outbreaks has B. hotulinus been isolated and the diagnosis 
rests upon the clinical picture. 



154 BOTULISM [CH. 

In the Ellezelles outbreak from which Van Ermengem 
(1897) first isolated B. botulinus, the ham was derived from 
a healthy animal, the rest of which was consumed without 
harm. The affected ham had been laid at the bottom of the 
pickling cask and covered with the pickling solution, while 
the other ham from the same animal, which was quite 
harmless, was laid above it and not covered by the liquid. 
The poisonous ham was not putrid but had a strong rancid 
odour. 

Romer {1900) isolated the bacillus from a ham pickled in 
brine which caused four cases of botulism, the rest of the 
animal being eaten without symptoms. The pig was killed 
two months before the outbreak and the ham was noticed 
to smell badly after being dried. Evidently only part, of the 
ham itself was affected since others ate of it without symp- 
toms, but only those parts which were normal in appearance 
and smell. The affected portions were blue-grey in colour 
with a rancid butyric acid odour and contained long, sporing 
bacilli. The normal parts showed no bacilli. 

The outbreak at Darmstadt in 1904 described by Fischer 
(1906) is a good example of an outbreak not of meat origin 
and illustrates the high fatality often met with, since eleven 
died out of twenty-one attacked. The cases occurred at a 
cookery school and followed the consumption of a bean 
salad prepared and canned three months previously by one 
of the cooks at the school. The salad was eaten by twenty- 
four persons. The beans had a rancid odour when the can 
was opened, especially noticeable after the addition of the 
vinegar. They were not cooked but merely rinsed and 
warmed before being eaten. A bacillus almost identical with 
B. botulinus was isolated and yielded a toxin fatal to guinea- 
pigs in doses of 0-0003 c.c. The remainder of the uncooked 
salad filtered through a Berkefeld filter was very toxic to 
mice and other animals. 

Van Ermengem gives two other instances in which B. botu- 
linus was isolated. One at Oro (Denmark) in 1901, affecting 
three persons, one with fatal result, and due to the consump- 
tion of mackerel preserved in vinegar. The fish examined 
some weeks later had a pronounced butyric acid smell. 



I 



IX] BOTULISM 155 

The other was at Iseghem in West Flanders in 1906, affected 
eight out of twelve persons in one family, and was due to 
eating a ham which showed no abnormal taste or smell. 

This bacillus was also isolated by Ornstein (1913) from an 
infected ham which caused two cases, while the bacillus was 
also isolated from the spleen of one of the fatal cases. 

Another outbreak from ham in which B. botulinus was 
isolated was reported by Schumacher (1913) in which six 
members of one family were taken ill after eating raw ham. 
The four children recovered but the father and mother died. 
The bacillus was isolated both from the ham and from the 
spleen of one of the fatal cases. Wilbur and Ophiils (1914) 
describe an interesting outbreak in America in November, 
1913, of twelve cases of illness with one fatal case, which 
presented the symptoms of botulism and which was due to 
canned string beans served without preliminary heating. 
The beans were canned by one of the party the summer 
before. B. botulinus was not isolated but none of the beans 
from the tin actually used were available for examination. 
Nothing abnormal about the beans was noted at the time. 

As a rule no evidences of putrefactive changes were notice- 
able in the poisonous food, but Schede (1916) in a recent 
outbreak of three cases in June, 1916, at Charlottenburg, 
with two deaths, due to eating ham obtained from a pig 
killed the previous autumn, reports that the ham was ob- 
viously not good when eaten, so much so that the remainder 
with the bone was thrown away at the time. 

Considerable diversity of opinion exists as to the preva- 
lence of this peculiar type of food poisoning and as to its 
specific identity. As mentioned above no authentic outbreaks 
appear to have occurred in this country. On the other hand 
Dorendorf (1917) in a recent lecture on this subject in 
Germany considers that isolated cases or small groups may 
be not infrequent. He records that over a period of three 
months he saw in a Military Hospital in East Germany 
seven cases of botulism, five being sporadic cases and the 
other two in one group. In no instance, however, was the 
diagnosis confirmed bacteriologically, while this is not a disease 
which one would expect to occur as sporadic cases. 



156 BOTULISM [CH. 

Dickson (19 17 b) in America considers that the disease is 
more common than is shown by the records. He states that 
in an investigation of unrecorded cases of food poisoning 
which occurred on the Pacific Coast of the United States 
during the previous six years he located eleven outbreaks of 
botulism in which twenty-nine persons were ill and twenty- 
three died. From three of these he states that he established 
the diagnosis of botulism by the isolation of B. botulinus 
from the affected food. In this paper Dickson tabulates 
these and a further eleven outbreaks in the Western States of 
America, eighteen being on the Pacific coast — seventeen in 
California and one in Oregon State. In all eighty-one persons 
were ill and sixty-five died, a mortality of 68 per cent. In 
eighteen outbreaks in which the source of the poisoning was 
recognized eleven were of vegetable origin (six home-canned 
string beans, and one each from other fruits or vegetables), 
two to bottled clam broth and the other five to different meat 
foods. 

The most definite fact which emerges from a consideration 
of these and other outbreaks is that in none of them were the 
implicated foods eaten in the fresh state, the toxic properties 
only developing after the food had been stored. Not only 
had the food been kept for a long time but usually had been 
preserved under conditions which were obviously unsatis- 
factory, such as insufficient pickling, defective smoking, 
inadequate canning, etc., while it had then been eaten 
without being cooked. It is quite evident that the develop- 
ment of poisonous properties is due to an invasion of other- 
wise healthy food by B. botulinus from outside sources and 
this can only occur when suitable anaerobic conditions are 
provided. This bacillus must be considered, as Van Ermen- 
gem insists, as a pathogenic saprophyte. 

Dickson (1915), in an experimental study, infected cans 
of string beans and other vegetables with B. botulinus and 
kept the inoculated cans at room temperatures for three to 
twelve months. Of twelve cases so infected four were 
rejected as the control tests were unsatisfactory, while 
B. botulinus was isolated in pure culture from six of the 
remaining eight tins. 



IX] BOTULISM 157 

Dickson (1917 h) tested the efficiency of the so-called 
cold-pack method of canning vegetables to kill B. botulinus. 
This is a method much recommended for home canning and 
consists of heating the filled jars at the temperature of 
boiling water. He found this method quite inefficient to 
kill B. botulinus spores when these were experimentally added 
to jars of peas, beans and corn, and subsequently heated for 
120 to 180 minutes. 

As regards the conditions under which it is found in nature 
and the paths of infection to the food our knowledge is 
of the scantiest. Van Ermengem was unable to find this 
bacillus in fifty-two different samples examined by him, 
consisting of the excreta of domestic animals (pig, cow, 
horse, duck, fowl), intestinal content of different kinds of 
fishes, soil, mud, manure, etc. 

The only positive finding which appears to be recorded is 
that of Kempner and Pollack, who isolated a bacillus from 
the excreta of a pig in Berlin which they identified with 
B. botulinus. Van Ermengem examined this strain and 
found that it closely resembled his pathogenic bacillus from 
the Ellezelles outbreak but culturally was most like the 
Darmstadt bacillus. Kempner obtained an antitoxin serum 
by injecting it into animals and this serum was capable of 
neutralizing the toxins both of the Ellezelles and of the 
Darmstadt bacilli. 

More exact knowledge as to the distribution of this 
organism in nature is very desirable. 

The prevention of the conditions favourable to the infec- 
tion and growth of B. botulinus should not be difficult. 
Sausages and other forms of prepared food must be manu- 
factured from good and clean materials only and the methods 
of preservation must be satisfactory and efficient. Unlike 
toxins of the Gaertner group efficient cooking destroys the 
toxins of B. botulinus, so it is important that all such foods 
should be properly cooked, either in course of manufacture 
or before being eaten. Foods of this character which exhibit 
a butyric acid-like smell should be particularly regarded with 
suspicion. Van Ermengem also recommends that in salting 
the brine should contain at least 10 per cent, sodium chloride, 



158 BOTULISM [CH. IX 

since B. hotulinus will not grow in media containing more 
than 6 per cent, sodium chloride. 

Note. During the spring and eariy summer of 1918 a number of cases of 
illness occurred which clinically somewhat resembled those met with in 
outbreaks of botulism. Several observers suggested that they were cases of 
botulism, and such an attractive label obtained wide credence in the daily 
press and to a limited extent in medical papers. The cases mostly occurred 
between February and June and were met with in London, Sheffield, 
Birmingham and other large towns with a few single or groups of cases in. 
other areas. A careful analysis of the symptoms by anyone cognizant of 
the classical features of botulism would have shown that the differences 
from that condition were more noticeable than the resemblances, a know- 
ledge of the mode of causation of botulism would at once have thrown 
suspicion upon such a diagnosis, while a careful study of the epidemio- 
logical aspect would have been sufficient to remove any grounds for 
assuming any relationship to this variety of food poisoning. Indeed as 
soon as the trained investigator, apart from the clinician, took up the 
matter it was evident that the diagnosis of botulism rested upon no 
scientific foundation, and some non-committal title such as Polioencepha- 
litis was a more fitting designation for the cases. B. hotulinus was searched 
for, but naturally ne-^^er isolated. 

See Memorandum by Local Government Board, Brit. Med. Journ. 1918, 
May i8th, 573; G. H. Melland, Brit. Med. Journ. 1918, May i8th, 559, and 
May 25th, 587; W. Benton, Public Health, 1918, xxxi. iii; W. G. Savage, 
Public Health, 191 8, xxxi, 112, etc. 

REFERENCES. 

E. C. Dickson (1915), Journ. Am. Med. Assoc, lxv. 492. 

(1917 a)- Journ. Am. Vet. Med. Assoc, l. 612, 

(1917 b). Journ. Am. Med. Assoc, lxvii 966. 

(1918). Botulism. Monograph of the Rockfeller Institute of 

Medical Research. New York. 
Dorendorf (191 7). Deut. med. Woch. xliii. 1531 and 1554. 
Fischer (1906). Zeitschr.J. klin. Medicin, lix. 58, 
Kempner and Pollack (1897). Deut. med. Woch. xxiii. 505. 

and Schepilewski (1898). Zeit. J. Hyg. xxvii. 213. 

Marinesco (1897). Presse medicale, v. 41. 

Mcintosh (191 7). Medical Research Com. Special Reports, No. 12. 

Ornstein (191 3). Zeit. Chemotherap. i. 458. 

Romer (1900). Centralb. J. Bakt. Orig. xxvii. 857. 

and Stein (1904). Arch. J. Ophthalmologic, lviii, 291. 

Schede (1916). Medizinische Klinik, xii. 1309. 
Schumacher (1913). MUnch. med. Woch. lx. 125. 
T. Stephenson (1892). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 1326. 
Van Ermengem (1897). Zeit. f. Hyg. xxvi. i. 

(191 2). Kolle und Wassermann, Handbuch der Pathogenen 

Microorganismen, iv. 909. 

Wilbur and Ophiils (1914). Arch, oj Int. Med. xiv. 589. 



CHAPTER X 

SOURCES AND METHODS OF INFECTION IN FOOD 
POISONING OUTBREAKS 

The data given in earlier chapters make it evident that as 
bacteriological investigations of outbreaks become more 
exact and complete, Gaertner group bacilli are isolated in an 
increased proportion of instances, and while it is possible 
that individual cases and limited outbreaks of illness may 
be due to putrefactive changes in the food consumed, it may 
be accepted generally that infection of food with bacilli of 
the Gaertner group must be looked upon as the usual cause 
of outbreaks of food poisoning of bacterial origin. 

In instances of poisoning of the nature of putrefactive 
intoxication, if there are any such cases, it is not necessary 
to trace back the matter further since there is no question 
of specific infection with a definite bacterium, the toxic 
condition of the meat being produced by the growth of 
bacteria which are widely present in nature as saprophytes. 

When, however, we are dealing with infection of the food 
with specific bacilli it becomes necessary to carry the matter 
a stage further and to inquire how the food became infected 
with these particular bacilli and from whence they were 
derived. 

It is unfortunate that so many of the British recorded 
outbreaks are lacking in information in regard to the paths 
of infection. Many of the recorders of these outbreaks seem 
to have deemed it sufficient to prove the possibility of 
excretal contamination of the food material in question, and 
having done so appear to have regarded this as a sufficient 
explanation of the whole occurrence. 

In a large proportion of the outbreaks no attempt seems 
to have been made to get at the actual sources of infection, 
and this applies to the large as well as to the small outbreaks. 
There are many lacunae in our knowledge which it is most 
desirable to fill up. A few, however, of the records contain 



l6o PATHS OF INFECTION [CH. 

information of the highest value, while many of the conti- 
nental recorded outbreaks have been more carefully worked 
out from this point of view. 

It cannot be too strongly emphasised that outbreaks of 
bacterial food poisoning are due to specific infection and not 
to general infection of the food with ordinary excretal bacilli, 
and therefore no inquiry into an outbreak can have any claim 
to completeness unless the source of this specific infection has 
been traced or at least carefully sought for. 

In connection with such inquiries two important possi- 
bilities require careful consideration. 

Evidence as to disease in the animals supplying 
the food affected. 

The evidence as to the health of the animals supplying 
the meat in the reports dealing with individual outbreaks in 
this country is very meagre, the majority making no mention 
of it. In a few cases the investigator states that he was in- 
formed that the animals were healthy, but as this is usually 
the evidence of highly interested persons it is not very 
valuable. 

In only two of the British outbreaks recorded in the 
writer's report to the Local Government Board (Savage, 
1913) was any evidence given that the animal was diseased. 
In one, the Murrow outbreak, amongst the bones, etc., used 
to make the brawn was a pig's foot which was obviously 
diseased and which from the description available had an 
abscess on it. The pig was sufficiently affected to have to 
be carted to the place of slaughter. 

In the Limerick outbreak (McWeeney, 1909) the available 
evidence is not very precise, but the meat was purchased 
ready killed by the contractor and at an unusually low price. 
No reliable information was obtainable as to the condition 
of the animal prior to or at the time of slaughter, but since 
the butcher who sold it to the contractor would appear to 
have sold it below cost price it is highly probable that it 
was not sound healthy meat. 

In striking contrast are the continental records. Of forty 



X] PATHS OF INFECTION l6l 

outbreaks tabulated in the above Government Report, in 
50 per cent, it was reported that the meat was derived from 
a diseased animal. The diseased conditions found were 
gastro-enteritis, etc. eight, udder disease two, puerperal 
sepsis one, local abscesses three, other diseases six. 

The discrepancy between these two sets of records is' 
partly to be accounted for by the better system of meat 
inspection in Germany and Belgium, where most of these 
continental outbreaks occurred, thus allowing diseased con- 
ditions in the animals to be more readily traced, partly to a 
more general recognition abroad of the association of these 
outbreaks with diseased animals (the condition not being 
inquired into for many of the English outbreaks) and to 
some extent to the fact that the continental series were 
mainly large well-defined outbreaks easier to investigate. 

Evidence of disease in the animals supplying the affected 
food is best illustrated in connection with the outbreaks 
spread by milk. The nine outbreaks of milk origin mentioned 
in Table I merit individual consideration. 

For four of them (Greenwich, Aberdeen, Edinburgh and 
the first Newcastle-under-Lyme outbreak) no detailed in- 
vestigations were made, or at least recorded, in regard to 
the condition of the animals supplying the milk. 

In the 1894 Manchester outbreak, involving 160 cases, it 
was found that a cow affected with an inflamed udder 
(mastitis) had been removed from the farm supplying the 
incriminated milk two days after the outbreak and was 
killed two days later. No bacteriological examination was 
made of this cow so that full proof of the association was not 
obtained but a Gaertner bacillus was isolated from the mixed 
milk. 

In the Bakewell outbreak (1908) all the infected milk was 
traced back to a farm upon which a cow had calved five 
days before the cases developed, and the milk of which was 
added to the implicated supply two days previous to the 
outbreak. No bacteriological investigations or examination 
of the cow were made. 

The extensive outbreak at Newcastle-upon-Tyne (Kerr 
and Hutchens, 1914) in 1913, involving at least 523 persons, 

S.F.P. n 



l62 PATHS OF INFECTION [CH. 

was spread by milk derived from a cow which had recently 
calved and which then had been added to the herd and her 
milk mixed with the rest. The cow had shown signs of 
illness a day or two before and died almost coincidently 
with the occurrence of the first cases of the outbreak. 
B. enter itidis was isolated from the internal organs of this 
cow, from milk obtained from the udder after death, as well 
as from the stools of seven of the persons attacked. 

The Withnell and Chorley outbreak (Sergeant, 1914) 
affected 317 persons and was due to B. enteritidis conveyed 
in milk and derived from a cow which suffered from ill- 
defined illness, with (apparently) udder inflammation, for 
several days before the outbreak and died the day on which 
the first cases developed. 

The facts elicited in the outbreak in 1914 at Newcastle- 
under-Lyme are of particular interest. 468 cases were 
recorded with two deaths. The milk was obtained through 
two vendors, but all came from one farm. Inquiries at this 
farm elicited that a cow had been purchased from a dealer 
while in calf, about four weeks prior to the outbreak. Some 
two weeks later (i.e. about two weeks before the outbreak) 
she calved at the farm and two days later fell ill with what 
was believed to be "milk fever." Abscesses, which had to be 
opened, developed in one leg. Notwithstanding this condition 
the milk of this animal continued to be mixed with the rest 
and was sold up to four days before the outbreak, when it 
was withheld owing to the purulent nature of the discharge 
from the abscesses. The milk was then given instead to four 
calves all of which fell ill and two died. 

The blood of this cow completely agglutinated B. enteri- 
tidis, isolated from the organs of one of the fatal cases, 
proving that it had been infected with that organism. Sub- 
sequent examination of the discharges of this cow showed 
the presence of B. enteritidis in the urine and uterine dis- 
charges. The milk of this diseased animal was examined by 
Delepine on a number of occasions after the outbreak but at 
first without finding B. enteritidis. The milk then had a normal 
appearance, but two further samples examined fifty and 
seventy-eight days respectively after the beginning of the 



,X] PATHS OF INFECTION 163 

outbreak showed evidence of mastitis and from one of them 
B. enteritidis was isolated. 

In the outbreak in Giessen in October, 1891, described by 
Gaffky (1892), the vehicle was milk derived from a herd 
amongst which was a cow which had suffered from a local, 
inflammatory swelling on the shoulder and also from 
diarrhoea. 

The isolation of B. enteritidis from cases of acute mastitis 
in cows is discussed on p. ^^t- 

In view of the fact that it is sometimes accepted that the 
flesh of swine fever animals is harmless to man the following 
outbreak described by Miiller (1918) is of great interest as 
showing that B. suipestifer from pigs suffering from swine 
fever can originate outbreaks of human food poisoning under 
favourable circumstances. In this case these were the con- 
sumption of the bacilli in livers which were not cooked. The 
outbreak also shows the great protection afforded by cooking. 

In February, 1917, seven pigs fell ill and were slaughtered. 
Six of them were markedly ill and when examined after 
death showed haemorrhagic necrotic areas in the lungs 
indicative of pleuro-pneumonia, but with only slight changes 
in the intestines. They were diagnosed as suffering from 
Schweineseuche and Schweinepest. The veterinary inspector 
condemned the intestines, lungs and spleen as unfit, but the 
rest of the organs and the carcases were passed for food. 
The seventh pig showed only trifling signs of illness when 
alive and no signs of disease when killed. The flesh of this 
animal was used at the farm itself, being first cooked, then 
chopped up and made into sausage meat. To this chopped- 
up sausage meat was added the livers (all free from naked- 
eye evidence of disease) of all the seven pigs. Before this 
meat was filled into skins and recooked as sausages part of 
it was eaten by five persons. Two ate scarcely any of it and 
remained well but the other three all became ill with fever, 
diarrhoea, headache and vomiting, the symptoms lasting 
three to six days. All recovered. 

All the persons who ate the sausage meat after it was filled 
into skins and recooked remained unaffected. 

Part of the sausage meat and livers, however, owing to lack 

II — 2 



l64 PATHS OF INFECTION [CH. 

of casings, could not be so used. It remained over until next 
day and was then eaten by fifteen persons all of whom 
became ill. The symptoms were as above, but some were 
more severe and they lasted from six to eight days. All 
ultimately recovered. From this sausage meat B. suipestifer 
was isolated. 

The flesh of the six animals was consumed without harm. 
Illness therefore only resulted when the livers of these pigs 
were eaten in an uncooked condition. That these animals 
were suffering from swine fever is further shown by the fact 
that on the same premises, some before, some subsequently, 
eleven other pigs died and examination showed that their 
lungs, livers, spleens and kidneys were strongly infected 
with B. suipestifer. 

Evidence pointing to infection of the food 
subsequent to slaughter. 

A study of recorded outbreaks in this country shows, in a 
considerable number of them, that infection of the foodstuff 
may with great probability be accepted as taking place 
during or after preparation of the animal for sale. 

The evidence is cumulative rather than conclusive in par- 
ticular outbreaks. The following general summary will be 
sufficient to demonstrate its nature. 

(a) In many of the recorded outbreaks while no information 
was available showing that the animal was diseased, clear 
evidence was forthcoming that during preparation for sale 
extensive excretal contamination was possible and likely. In 
outbreak after outbreak abundant possibilities of such con- 
tamination have been shown to exist although as explained 
elsewhere this argument is of limited validity. 

Three examples out of many may be mentioned to illus- 
trate the abundant opportunities for excretal contamination. 

In the Mansfield outbreak (No. i8) the potted meat, the 
consumption of which caused the outbreak, was put to set 
and cool in the preparing-room, which was used for slaugh- 
tering the pigs. Pigs had been slaughtered there the day 
before the incriminated food was made. Further, the 
utensils used for preparing the potted meat were used 



X] PATHS OF INFECTION 165 

equally in connection with the slaughtering. The bowl used 
for ladling the gravy of the potted meat was, for example, 
used in dressing the carcases. 

In the Bacup (No. 84) outbreak the vehicle of infection 
was roast leg of pork. The legs were stuifed, roasted and 
sold as boneless legs of pork, so that considerable manipu-' 
lation was required. The other parts of the pigs caused no 
illness, and, as it was the legs which were infected, it is 
reasonable to assume that infection was post-slaughter. An 
obvious means of possible contamination was found, since it 
was ascertained that the man who prepared the legs for 
roasting and removed the bones was also engaged in slaugh- 
tering and in gut cleaning. 

In the Trowbridge outbreak (No. 109) due to infected 
chitterlings (i.e. the large intestine and stomach of the pig), 
the following was the method of preparation at the time of 
the outbreak. The guts, divided into lengths, were placed in 
a wooden tub containing warm water. Then piece by piece 
the lengths were taken out, their contents emptied into a 
bowl, by pressure between the thumb and finger, and each 
piece replaced in the same tub. Fresh water was then 
placed in the tub and the pieces washed in it, no running 
water being used. The pieces of gut were then placed in a 
lead lined trough filled with brine, said to be in the propor- 
tion of I J cwt. salt to thirty gallons of water. The chitterlings 
remain in the brine for a varying length of time, being re- 
moved as customers send for supplies. The premises were 
old and there was a general lack of cleanliness. 

It is obvious that under such conditions one section of 
infected gut would have ample opportunity to contaminate 
other batches, while the methods used would not remove all 
the excretal contents. No recognized period for brining was 
employed, this varying with the demand. The infected 
chitterlings were in the brine for from thirty minutes to six 
hours, but, from the facts obtained, could not have been there 
longer. 

(6) In many cases the meat during preparation was so 
treated, e.g. by boiling or other form of cooking, that any bacilli 
or toxins in it must inevitably have been destroyed, and that 



l66 PATHS OF INFECTION [CH. 

since the meat was shown to contain Gaertner group bacilli they 
must have been added after the preparation stages were com- 
pleted. 

This argument is particularly applicable in the case of 
brawn and some other prepared foods, and must be considered 
of great weight. The fact that the food has undergone 
preparation even involving heating cannot, however, be 
taken as conclusive in itself that the infection was post- 
slaughter. Trade expressions frequently will not bear 
scientific interpretations, and boiling to the meat purveyor 
may not mean a temperature of anything like ioo° C, either 
at any time or over a prolonged period. The low tempera- 
tures reached in ordinary cooking have already been con- 
sidered. 

Also there are sometimes opportunities for re-infection 
from the same source after cooking, e.g. from infected uten- 
sils, vessels, etc. In the Trowbridge outbreak, for example, 
the cooked chitterlings were put in cold water in the same 
bath in which they were put to soak before the boiling. 

(c) In a number of cases the specific food which caused the 
outbreak was non-infectious {or at least did not cause infection) 
at first and only became so after the lapse of a definite period of 
time. 

The following outbreak at Cressage in 1900 is a good 
example. 

At a farmhouse three geese were killed and a certain 
widow helped to prepare and cook them. The giblets were 
stewed September 26th and eaten by the farmhouse people, 
while the geese were cooked and eaten the next day (Sep- 
tember 27th). Both lots of food were eaten without harm. 
On September 27th about 2 p.m. the widow took home a 
portion of the giblets (consisting of gizzard and other parts), 
the giblets gravy, pieces of goose and slices of beef. These 
were placed in her pantry at home and eaten cold for 
supper the same evening without being recooked. After the 
consumption of this meat seven persons were ill and two 
died. Twenty-seven hours elapsed between the cooking of the 
giblets and their consumption. 

A similar latency of infection is observable in a number of 



X] PATHS OF INFECTION 167 

other outbreaks. While this point is important by itself it is 
quite insufficient to prove that infection took place between 
the date when the meat was non-infective and when it was 
infective, since infection is to some extent a question of 
dosage. 

Even in the Cressage case, which is of great interest, it 
by no means follows that infection was subsequent to cooking. 
The geese may have been diseased and the first cooking 
sufficient to kill nearly all the Gaertner bacilli, but not quite 
all, a few surviving. The twenty-seven hours in the warm 
weather would have given them abundant opportunities to 
multiply in the rich nutrient material, and so render this 
food highly infective. 

This argument is therefore of value, but is not conclusive 
in itself. 

(d) A further point is that since other portions of the animal 
were eaten without harm the animal itself could not have been 
diseased, and the cause of the outbreak: inferentially , therefore, 
the food infection must have been after death. 

This argument is adopted in many of the English reports, 
and while it is not without weight, it is only very partially 
true. It implies that Gaertner group infections of the food- 
supplying animals are generalised infections, and that the 
bacilli are present in all the organs and parts of the body. 
This would seem not to be the case, and localised lesions, 
such as the leg lesion in the Murrow pig, would appear to 
occur. In the Limerick and Murrow outbreaks, in which 
disease of the animal was highly probable, the other parts 
of the animals were eaten without apparent harm. 

In many of the continental outbreaks the animals supply- 
ing the food were definitely diseased, but while the meat of 
certain parts of the animal caused food poisoning, consump- 
tion of the rest of the flesh was without apparent harm. 

The question is probably not merely one of a local versus 
a general infection, but also one of dosage, the bacilli being 
more distributed in certain parts of the body, while the 
cooking processes to which different parts are subjected are 
not equal. 

{e) A large proportion of the outbreaks has been associated 



l68 PATHS OF INFECTION [CH. 

with foodstuffs which are very liable to bacterial contamination, 
and which when so contaminated allow marked multiplication 
of the added bacteria. 

This is an argument of great importance and weight. The 
prevalence of brawn and pork pies as vehicles of infection 
has already been discussed. Both contain a good deal of 
jelly and are admirable nutrient media for bacteria, while 
both cool slowly and in so doing afford, over a long period, a 
temperature suitable for very rapid multiplication of Gaert- 
ner or other bacilli. While brawn is not invariably sterilized 
during its preparation it is so in most cases, and as such 
provides a medium artificially sterihzed and freed from com- 
peting bacilli, a third factor favouring rapid multiplication. 
The frequency with which foods containing an excess of 
gelatinous matter have served as the vehicle in food poisoning 
outbreaks was first drawn attention to by Ballard in his 
classical report to the Local Government Board in 1890. 

A further point in connection with these made-foods is 
the frequency with which these articles have to be handled, 
thus increasing the liability to infection. 

( /) In a certain proportion of the outbreaks the vehicle of 
infection is not of animal nature at all. For these it is obvious 
that infection of the food during or subsequent to prepara- 
tion must have taken place. The following outbreak at 
Clapham in 191 1 is a good example. 

Tinned pineapple was purchased on the Saturday, opened 
on Sunday and made into a jelly by the cook on Sunday 
morning. It was then kept in the larder for about nine 
hours when it was placed on the table and eaten at 9 p.m. by 
eight persons, all of whom were taken ill and one died. There 
was a definite incubation period and the severity of the 
symptoms were not in proportion to the dose, so that it was 
clearly not a case of m.etallic poisoning. 

No bacteriological investigations were made, but this out- 
break was probably due to Gaertner or other bacilli which 
had infected the jelly and multiplied abundantly in it during 
the nine hours the food was kept in the larder on a hot July 
day in 191 1. The jelly also would have been hot to start 
with. 



X] PATHS OF INFECTION 169 

The presence of a material (jelly) capable of serving as a 
nutrient medium for the bacteria is here the important 
thing. The report gives no clue as to how the jelly could 
have become infected. 

While no one of the considerations mentioned as evidence 
of infection subsequent to the death of the animal is, in 
itself, sufficient to prove the point, they are each of value, 
and their cumulative evidence is in many cases quite 
sufficient to prove that the bacteria obtained access to the 
food after slaughter. 

There is one important argument on the other side which 
has not been mentioned. It is only in extremely rare cases 
that the sheep has been the animal furnishing the meat which 
has served as the vehicle of infection. It may be advanced 
that if post-slaughter infection were comxmon we should meet 
with many more such cases, since we know that Gaertner 
group bacilli inoculated upon mutton will multiply abund- 
antly. The probable explanation is the comparative infre- 
quency with which mutton is used in the preparation of 
made foods. It is chiefly eaten in the form of roast or boiled 
meat, and the joints being small are more likely to be 
efficiently cooked. There are no known diseases of the 
sheep due to Gaertner group bacilli. 

Sources of infection. 

The considerations just discussed show that while in a 
certain number of instances the source of infection is straight- 
forward, the vehicle of infection being meat or milk derived 
from an animal suffering from disease (general or localized) 
caused by one or other member of the Gaertner group of 
bacteria, in the remaining outbreaks (and this probably con- 
stitutes a considerable majority) there is no evidence of such 
a causal connection, while in at least some cases it is mani- 
festly untrue, the vehicle of infection not being derived from 
an animal at all. If we are to attain to reliable preventive 
measures it is essential to endeavour to trace out and ascer- 
tain the sources of infection in all cases, and especially for 
those in which Gaertner group bacilli have gained access 



170 SOURCES OF INFECTION [CH. 

from outside the food itself. There are three separate 
hypotheses which may be advanced and which require de- 
tailed consideration. 

Hypothesis A. That the Gaertner group bacilli which are 
the cause of the food poisoning outbreaks are of human origin, 
the meat being infected with pathogenic Gaertner bacilli from 
a human source, i.e. a case of disease [paratyphoid fever) or a 
carrier case. 

This view has been advanced by Conradi and by Rommeler. 
It has in its favour the fact that paratyphoid bacilli carriers 
have been proved to exist and that by analogy with typhoid 
carriers such carriers are potential, and may be actual, 
sources of infection. 

It may be accepted as demonstrated that outbreaks of 
paratyphoid fever, like outbreaks of typhoid fever, are 
frequently spread by carriers, but this is a very different 
proposition to suggesting that attacks of food poisoning can 
be originated by paratyphoid fever carriers. As far as we 
know B. paratyphosus B carriers always set up outbreaks of 
paratyphoid fever. 

An interesting outbreak of this kind is that recorded by 
Sacquepee and Bellot (1910). The outbreak of paratyphoid 
fever was caused by food, and the evidence suggests that this 
was infected by an assistant cook who had suffered from an 
ill-defined illness a short time previously. Paratyphoid 
bacilli were isolated from his excreta but only some months 
after the outbreak. The possibility of these bacilli being 
derived from a slight attack at the time of the outbreak was 
not fully excluded by the investigators, nor was the real 
nature of his ill-defined illness bacteriologically ascertained. 

Trautmann has advanced the hypothesis that in meat 
poisoning outbreaks we have to deal chiefly with an intoxi- 
cation from ingested toxins, while in paratyphoid fever with 
an infection with a few of the same bacilli (paratyphoid 
bacilli), which only cause disease symptoms after a definite 
incubation period. 

If this hypothesis were true, in most outbreaks some 
cases would be acute with the ordinary food poisoning 
symptoms, while others would be cases of paratyphoid fever. 



Xl SOURCES OF INFECTION 171 

This is by no means the case, although, as explained on 
p. 48, a few protracted cases of infection are met with. 

It has been pointed out that in several outbreaks the meat, 
when undoubtedly infected with Gaertner group bacilli, was 
eaten on the first day without harm or with only a small 
percentage of attacks, although very toxic on the second and 
subsequent days. On this hypothesis, at least, some of the 
persons who ate the meat on the first day should have 
developed paratyphoid fever. There is no evidence of a 
single such case in these outbreaks. 

We have evidence that B. paratyphosus B can cause acute 
gastro-enteritis, simulating a food poisoning outbreak, in the 
very interesting outbreak recorded by Bainbridge and Dud- 
field (191 1). They record a number of cases of acute gastro- 
enteritis in which the onset and symptoms were indistin- 
guishable from those met with in ordinary food poisoning 
outbreaks, and in which B. paratyphosus B was the organism 
found. Careful investigation failed to find any article of 
food which could be shown to be the vehicle of infection 
while a number of the cases occurred in different places and 
on different dates. The cases were connected, but it was one 
of contact, not a common food supply. In this outbreak the 
evidence was in favour of a human source of infection. 

McWeeney (1916) records the case of a man who was 
admitted to a Dublin hospital suffering from marked col- 
lapse and other symptoms. B. aertrycke was isolated. It is 
not clear if this was a case of food poisoning associated with 
food, or was a case comparable to those of Bainbridge and 
Dudfield. 

According to the writer's view (in contradistinction to the 
view accepted widely in Germany that B. paratyphosus B 
and B. suipestifer are identical) no food poisoning outbreaks 
have been shown to be due to B. paratyphosus B but all to 
B. aertrycke {vel B. suipestifer) or B. enteritidis, with possibly 
a few closely allied forms. To accept the carrier view we 
have therefore to postulate that human beings can and do 
act as carriers of B. enteritidis or B. aertrycke. Only a very 
few such cases have been recorded. 

That B. aertrycke, like B. paratyphosus B, can persist after 



172 SOURCES OF INFECTION [CH. 

infection through food poisoning in the human intestine is 
shown by investigations in connection with a very extensive 
outbreak amongst troops in France in April 1918, involving 
over 1000 cases. The outbreak could not be traced to the con- 
sumption of any one article of food but from the evidence 
it was highly probable that it was due to food infection. 
The cases, however, did not develop explosively but extended 
over several weeks, most of the cases occurring within a 
period of ten days. Perry and Tidy (1919), who describe the 
outbreak, considered that the primary infection was due to a 
human carrier, although no convincing evidence is adduced, 
and that the secondary cases which were common were due 
to the same cause. The outbreak was definitely traced to 
B. aertrycke, its exact place in the group being worked out 
by agglutination and absorption tests, while this bacillus 
was isolated from many of the cases and identified as the 
cause by agglutination tests with the blood of cases. Perry 
and Tidy made some valuable observations upon the per- 
sistence of these bacilli in the excreta of cases, studying forty- 
four cases for this purpose. In the early stages in many cases 
B. aertrycke was present in practically a pure culture. They 
found that 50 per cent, had ceased to excrete this organism 
by the end of the fourth week, while at the end of the seventh 
week only two were positive. One continued positive for 
fourteen weeks and the bacilli were still present at the time 
of the report. 

The only outbreaks in this country definitely ascribed to 
a human carrier are those at Wrexham (1910) and at Brigh- 
ton (1917). The Wrexham evidence is inconclusive. The 
cook to whom is ascribed the role of carrier is said not to 
have eaten any of the incriminated pie, and her blood 
reacted to the Gaertner group bacillus isolated as the cause 
of the outbreak in one out of four tests. From her faeces 
after the outbreak members of the Gaertner group were 
isolated, but no evidence is advanced that they were identical 
with the Wrexham bacillus. The cook might have been 
slightly infected without showing any obtrusive symptoms. 

In the Brighton outbreak, investigated by Forbes and the 
writer (Savage and Forbes, 1918), twenty-eight cases of food 



X] SOURCES OF INFECTION 173 

poisoning in a general hospital were traced to the consump- 
tion of fried fish. The evidence showed that the fish was 
infected in the hospital and the rest of it was eaten in the 
town without any evidence of ill-health. The serum of the 
kitchen maid, who had abundant opportunities for con- 
taminating the fish, since she sliced, floured and cooked it,' 
showed well-marked Gaertner group agglutinins. From the 
internal organs of a fatal case and from the excreta of this 
kitchen maid a highly pathogenic bacillus was isolated, 
which while serologically identical with B. enteritidis showed 
at first cultural deviations (i.e. diminished fermentation 
properties). The existence of these differences proved the 
absolute identity of the two bacilli. Very detailed inquiries 
were made which showed that the kitchen maid disliked fish 
and had not eaten any of the infected fish and that she had 
not suffered in the slightest degree at the time of the out- 
break or showed any symptoms of illness. The investigators 
concluded that she was a carrier of this bacillus and had 
infected the fish and caused the outbreak. There was no 
available evidence as to how this girl became infected and 
a carrier. 

In a number of outbreaks the carrier hypothesis is sug- 
gested as the source of infection (for example, Bernstein 
and Fish, 1916), but as a rule it is a suggestion only and there 
is no actual evidence to support the contention. 

While therefore there appears to be a probability that a 
certain number of outbreaks may be ascribed to infection of 
the food from a human carrier, the existing evidence suggests 
that such cases are few in number. Evidence is lacking as 
to the persistence of these bacilli in the human intestine 
after outbreaks of food poisoning, although from analogy 
with animals it is likely that in some cases they may persist 
for long periods. 

The human carrier hypothesis cannot be advanced as a 
general explanation for all or even for most outbreaks, while 
this view does not explain the proved association of many 
outbreaks with the consumption of the flesh of diseased 
animals. 

Hypothesis B. That the Gaertner group bacilli which set up 



174 SOURCES OF INFECTION [CH. 

the food poisoning outbreaks are derived from ordinary faecal 
infection of the food. 

The acceptance of this view, of course, impHes that the 
true Gaertner group bacilH are natural intestinal inhabitants. 
In view of this hypothesis this question was considered in 
considerable detail in Chapter VI. It was there shown that 
true Gaertner group bacilli cannot be considered as natural 
inhabitants of the animal intestine. 

The writer from his own and recorded investigations be- 
lieves this hypothesis, which is so frequently given in reports 
upon food poisoning outbreaks as a sufficient explanation, 
is without foundation, and that any support which it has 
received from bacteriological findings is due to insufficient 
cultural and agglutinative differentiation of the bacilli iso- 
lated. 

Also strongly against this view is the fact that present day 
methods for the preparation of meat for sale frequently 
allow great possibilities of contamination with excremen- 
titious matters. This contamination is especially liable to 
occur with made-foods, such as sausages, brawn and meat 
pies. The two former often show the presence of enormous 
numbers of faecal bacilli. 

The writer has also shown that when flesh, brawn, etc., are 
inoculated with Gaertner bacilli and with B. coli both 
multiply very rapidly, so that there is no reason for assuming 
that under natural conditions any Gaertner group bacilli 
which gained access to meat would be overgrown by con- 
comitant B. coli, thus preventing infection. 

This being the case, if simple faecal contamination is a 
sufficient explanation, food poisoning outbreaks should be 
extremely common instead of comparatively rare. 

The available data conclusively disproves the correctness 
of this hypothesis. 

Hypothesis C. That food poisoning outbreaks are due to 
infection of the food with virulent Gaertner group organisms 
{or other special bacilli) derived from animals which are either 
at the time suffering from disease due to Gaertner group bacilli 
or acting as carriers of these bacilli. 

This is the view which the writer has advanced as the one 



X] SOURCES OF INFECTION 175 

which best explains ail or most of the phenomena of food 
poisoning due to Gaertner group bacilli. 

This hypothesis is adequate to explain the outbreaks 
associated with the consumption of the meat of a diseased 
animal, and is also capable of explaining the outbreaks in 
which infection occurs during or after preparation of the 
food. 

As set out in Chapter VI there is a considerable number of 
animal diseases due to Gaertner group bacilli. Many of 
them affect animals used for human food, others animals 
(rats and mice) which have opportunities of infecting human 
food. 

While true Gaertner group bacilli are not natural inhabi- 
tants of the healthy animal intestine, they are very occa- 
sionally found to be present in it and in a few cases have 
been found in made-foods, such as sausages. Their occur- 
rence, which is rare, is probably due to the presence of 
carrier bacilli in animals recovering from infection from a 
Gaertner group organism. 

Zwick and Weichel examined 177 mice and in twenty- 
eight found they were acting as carriers of Gaertner group 
bacilli. 

Petrie and O'Brien (1910) fed guinea-pigs with B.suipestifer 
cultures. One died. The rest remained apparently healthy 
during the period of observation, extending over sixty days, 
and the bacillus , used for feeding was isolated from the 
excreta on a number of occasions. In this way they pro- 
duced healthy carriers. 

O'Brien (1910) has described an epizootic due to B. sui- 
pestifer amongst 500 laboratory stock guinea-pigs. All but 
twenty-one of them died. Five of the survivors proved to be 
carriers, excreting the bacilli intermittently five months 
later. The bacilli were, however, of diminished pathogenicity, 
while spread of infection from these carrier animals did not 
take place in the few experiments carried out. 

It does not appear to be settled how long these bacilli can 
retain their virulence when unassociated with a definite 
pathological condition. From analogy with typhoid carriers, 
it may be for very long periods. On the other hand, outside 



176 SOURCES OF INFECTION [CH. 

the animal body Gaertner group bacilli rather readily lose 
their heat-resisting properties and to some extent their 
virulence. 

It is probable that the virulence of the infecting bacillus, 
as well as the number present, is important in initiating 
infection. Meat poisoning outbreaks are far more prevalent 
in the summer months. This is no doubt in part a question 
of dosage, since the rate of multiplication of these bacilli is 
greatly favoured by a high temperature. It is, however, 
possible that in hot weather the virulence of Gaertner bacilli 
is raised and carrier bacilli, usually of too low virulence to 
infect, may become definitely pathogenic to man. It must 
be remembered that while true Gaertner group bacilli are 
very virulent by subcutaneous or intraperitoneal injection, 
they are far less virulent by the mouth, the way that human 
infection in food poisoning outbreaks is transmitted. 

A point which merits careful attention, but which cannot 
be said to be settled, is the extent to which rats and mice 
may serve as vehicles for the spread of Gaertner group 
bacilli and as a source of specific contamination of food. 
In Addenda II and III, Chapter VI, it has been pointed 
out that these animals are infected not infrequently with 
bacilli of this group, while certain members of the group 
(Danysz bacillus, Rattin, B. typhi murium, etc.) are ex- 
tensively employed to destroy rats and mice. Two possible 
sources of human infection have therefore to be considered, 
i.e. direct infection of man through the use of these viruses 
and specific contamination of the food from the access to it 
of rats or mice which are infected with Gaertner group bacilli. 

The Gaertner bacilli used for the destruction of rats and 
mice are evidently of low virulence to man, since very few 
accidents appear to have occurred when compared with the 
very extensive facilities offered for infection during handling 
and in use. 

Many observers, e.g. Bonhoff (1904), Danysz (1909), etc., 
advance the view that these organisms are not a danger to 
man. 

Several groups of cases abroad and one outbreak in this 
country have been ascribed to their use. The English out- 



X] SOURCES OF INFECTION 177 

break occurred in the City of London and may be briefly 
described. 

In July, 1908 (Collingridge, 1908), an outbreak of illness 
occurred at a large business establishment where a consider- 
able number of persons of both sexes were employed: 
Between the i8th and 22nd twelve men became seriously ill, 
the symptoms being fever, severe headache, vomiting, 
diarrhoea, cramp in the abdomen, giddiness, with severe 
collapse in many cases. There were no deaths. The severe 
symptoms lasted about forty-eight hours but each case re- 
covered and' practically was convalescent at the end of the 
week. 

All those taken ill had their meals in the same dining room 
and no illness arose amongst those using the other four 
dining rooms. No article of food was served exclusively in 
this particular dining room. In the course of the investiga- 
tion an offensive smell was noticed in the dining room used 
by the patients, and on removing some of the floor boards 
on July 30th the bodies, more or less decomposed, of forty 
mice were found. It was then ascertained that on July i6th 
some "Liverpool Virus" rat poison had been put down in 
the dining room and in one of the pantries. Only one tube 
was used and it was only put down once. 

Specimens of the stools of some of the patients were bac- 
teriologically examined by Klein who isolated a bacillus 
(microbe S.) from the stools which agglutinated the sera of 
five of the cases tested when convalescent. This microbe S. 
was pathogenic to a guinea-pig and culturally was identical 
with the Liverpool virus, both organisms in Klein's opinion 
showing minute cultural differences from B. enteritidis. 

It is, however, noteworthy that the sera of the convales- 
cent cases showed only very feeble agglutination reactions 
with the Liverpool virus or with B. enteritidis. 

Bainbridge (1909) has shown that the Liverpool virus is 
indistinguishable from B. enteritidis by cultural, agglutina- 
tion and absorption tests, so that the failure of the sera of 
these convalescent cases to agglutinate either the Liverpool 
virus or B. enteritidis throws grave doubts upon the etiolo- 
gical association. 

s. F. p. 12 



17S SOURCES OF INFECTION [CH. 

The cultural tests used by Klein were insufficient to dis- 
tinguish microbe S. from the para-Gaertner bacilli, and it is 
not clear whether this organism was a para-Gaertner bacillus 
or a true Gaertner organism such as B. suipestifer. 

The outbreak is of great interest but the available evidence 
both on bacteriological and epidemiological grounds is 
insufficient to prove that it was caused by the rat virus. 

Mayer (1905) during an investigation of mouse typhoid was 
himself taken violently ill. B. typhi murium wdiS isolated from 
his excreta while his blood agglutinated this bacillus in high 
dilution. His acute illness was no doubt due to infection 
with this organism. 

Schibayama (1907) in Japan has described five outbreaks 
in man all associated with the use of B. typhi murium as a 
virus. Two of them may be mentioned in detail. In one, in 
April, 1905, thirty persons were attacked with gastro- 
intestinal symptoms, and three died, twelve to forty-eight 
hours after eating cooked vegetables. The vegetables were 
cooked in a wooden vessel which two days earlier had been 
used to mix the mouse virus (consisting of B. typhi murium) 
with warm water before distribution and which had not 
subsequently been cleaned out. Seventeen of the cases oc- 
curred following eating the freshly cooked vegetables and 
twelve after eating next day the vegetables left unconsumed. 
Bacilli isolated from the intestinal contents of the fatal 
cases, from some of the recovered cases and from the vege- 
tables were found to be completely identical with one another 
and with B. typhi murium. 

In another outbreak which occurred in May, 1906, in a 
Japanese village a peasant brought home the virus mixed 
with meal. Six children found and ate it in mistake for cake. 
Next day all were ill with high temperature and diarrhoea. 
One child of four years died but the others recovered. 

Langer and Thomann (1914) describe an outbreak of 
eleven cases of food poisoning with two. deaths due to eating 
a meat pasty. What they describe as B. paratyphosus B 
was isolated from the internal organs of the cases, and this 
bacillus was agglutinated by paratyphoid serum and by the 
serum of the cases. From the flour used they isolated 



X] SOURCES OF INFECTION 179 

B. paratyphosus B. The different meal dealers were investi- 
gated and the only possible source of infection which could 
be found was from one of them who also stored a mouse- 
typhoid preparation. The bait used was identical with B. 
paratyphosus B. The last mouse destruction experiment had 
been about four months before the beginning ot the outbreak, 
but the authors showed experimentally that the bacilli 
lived easily for four months in the meal. 

It is of interest to note that this virus has set up disease 
in animals. Thus Krickendt (1901) reported that upon a 
certain estate the remainder of the mouse-typhoid cultures 
used against mice became mixed with the food given to 
calves. A number of calves (four to seven months old) fell 
ill with symptoms of gastro-enteritis found to be due to 
B. typhi murium. The older animals recovered but the 
younger died. 

Hiibener quotes Pfeiffers as finding fever, diarrhoea and 
loss of appetite to follow the feeding of three sheep with this 
bacillus. Two died while the third was severely ill. 

It is evident that much fuller information is desirable in 
regard to the use of these rat and mice viruses, and particu- 
larly as to how far those handling them develop slight 
infections with the presence of agglutinins in the blood. 

In view of the fact explained in Chapter VI that rats may 
recover from infection with Gaertner group bacilli and may 
harbour the bacilli subsequently for long periods, in con- 
junction with the extensive way in which these rodents infect 
food, it seems a highly probable hypothesis that the vehicle 
of infection in some cases is likely to have been rats or mice. 
From the nature of things it is not possible to supply direct 
proof of such transmission in any particular outbreak. 

Actual mode of infection of the food. 

It has yet to be considered how the food becomes infected 
with Gaertner group bacilli. When the vehicle of infection 
is meat derived from an animal suffering from disease caused 
by a Gaertner group bacillus, then of course there is no 
difficulty, but in considerably more than half the outbreaks 

12 — 2 



l8o MODE OF INFECTION [CH. 

this is not the case. For these outbreaks to complete the 
inquiry we need to explain how the food, frequently not 
meat at all, became specifically infected, for example, the 
path whereby the bacilli become transmitted from the 
animal intestine to the incriminated food. 

The study of recorded outbreaks as a rule reveals no data 
on this point, but for most of them there is definite evidence 
of the existence of insanitary conditions facilitating infection. 
In many cases, for example, the food was put to cool after 
cooking in places exposed to faecal contamination. Such 
exposure takes many different forms. In some the instruments 
used to cut up the slaughtered animals were the same as 
those used for the prepared foods, in others the persons who 
handled and dressed the carcases, and in some cases also 
indulged in gut scraping, were employed to prepare and 
handle the food used for human consumption. In other 
instances there was much exposure to dust, while for nearly 
all there was liability to infection from flies, some of which 
may have been specifically infected. 

As regards flies Graham-Smith (1914) found that with flies 
infected with B. enteritidis this organism can be found in 
the contents of their crops and intestines for at least seven 
days after infection. Such flies for several days readily 
infected with this bacillus media plates over which they 
walked, infection probably being due to inoculation from the 
proboscis of the fly. The only recorded instance of the re- 
covery of Gaertner group bacilli from flies under natural 
conditions, of which the writer is aware, is that recorded by 
Nicoll (191 1). This investigator isolated B. paratyphosus B 
from two flies, in one case from the external surface and from 
the intestine and in the second from the intestine alone. 
Nicoll concluded that the flies must have carried the bacilli 
for at least eleven and fourteen days respectively. 

The bacteria isolated from flies by Horn and Huber (1911) 
and described by them as of the paratyphoid group cannot 
be accepted as true B. paratyphosus B organisms. 

The cumulative evidence incriminating flies as the vehicle 
of infection in typhoid fever and all enteritis diseases is very 
strong, and therefore there is a strong presumption for 



X] MODE OF INFECTION l8l 

associating them with the causation of food poisoning 
infections. 

The importance of rats and mice as a vehicle of infection 
has already been insisted upon. Undoubtedly these animals 
gain access to food very extensively, and their role as trans- 
mitting agents is possibly underestimated. 

With the above well-known methods of infection available 
which have been generally accepted as operative for typhoid- 
dysentery infections it is not necessary to postulate any 
special and peculiar methods for food poisoning outbreaks. 

In the list of recorded outbreaks it will be noted that in 
several instances the vehicle of infection was meat which 
had been salted. It is therefore of importance to consider 
the extent to which salt solutions can eliminate Gaertner 
group bacilli. 

In a series of experiments with commercial brines and 
artificial salt solutions the writer (Savage, 1910) showed 
that a rapid elimination of both Gaertner and B. coli bacilli 
took place, at all the temperatures tested, in solutions con- 
taining 15 per cent, or more of salt. In 10 per cent, salt 
solutions the death of the bacilli was also rapid, but less so 
than for more concentrated solutions. In one experiment 
with 10 per cent, brine, however, the results showed that 
when the initial number of bacteria was very large the 
diminution was very rapid as before, but that a quite small 
number survived and then, having become acclimatised, were 
able to live as long as thirty-eight days. 

Weichel (1910) also found that salt solutions in a strength 
of 10 per cent, or over were prejudicial to Gaertner group 
bacilli added to them, killing the bacilli in a short time. An 
increase only occurred with a strength of 7 per cent, or less. 
The actual period of survival varied with the temperature 
and initial number of bacilli added. On the other hand in 
meat that already had been infected with food poisoning 
bacilli before pickling, the killing of the bacilli even with 
salt solutions up to 19 per cent, takes place after so long a 
period that pickling as a method for the utilisation of 
infected meat cannot be considered practicable and this 
quite apart from the question of toxin production. In meat 



l82 MODE OF INFECTION [CH. 

already infected before pickling the food poisoning bacilli 
resist killing in 12 to 19 per cent, salt up to seventy-five days, 
while in a solution of 10 to 13 per cent, numerous food 
poisoning bacteria within the meat were alive up to eighty 
days. 

Karaffa-Korbutt (1912) studied the inhibitory rather than 
the killing property of salt solutions. He showed that solu- 
tions of 6 to 7 per cent, inhibited the growth of B. enteritidis, 
B. paratyphosus B, and B. aertrycke. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR CHAPTERS V, VI AND X. 

The literature of the Gaertner group is very extensive. The under- 
mentioned list only includes those consulted which are referred to in 
the text and which illustrate special points. 

Abraham (1906). Munch, med. Wochenschrift. Liii. 2466. 

Acomb (1915). Special Report to Newport (Mon.) Borough Council 

(Outbreak No. 102). 
Andreijew (1910). Arb. aus d. Kais. Gesund. xxxiii. 363. 
Angus (1916). Journ. Roy. Sanitary Inst, xxxvii. 6. (Outbreak 

No. 103.) 
Aumann (1911). Centralb. f. Bakt. i Abt. Orig. lvii. 310, 
Bahr, Raebiger and Grosso (1909). Zeit. f. Infekt. der Haustiere, v. 

295- 
Bainbridge (1909). Journ. of Path, and Bad. xiii. 443. 

(191 1). Proc. Roy. Soc. of Med. iv. (Epidem. Section), 51. 

(1912). Lancet, 1912, March 16, 23, 30. 

and O'Brien (191 1). Journ. of Hygiene, xi. 68. 

and Dudfield (191 1). Ibid. xi. 24. 

Ballard (1890). Report of Medical Officer L.G.B. 1890, 189. 
Barker (1899). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 1367. (Outbreak No. 26.) 
Basenau (1894). Archiv f. Hyg. xxxii. 219. 

Batten and Forbes (1908). Proc. Roy. Soc. of Med. i. (Clinical Sec), 81, 
Baumgarten's Jahresbericht (1896), xii. 496 (contains a good account 

of several Psittacosis outbreaks). 
Bernhardt (1913). Zeit. f. Hyg. lxxiii. 65. 

Bernstein and Fish (191 6). Journ. Am. Med. Assoc, lxvi. 167. 
Berry (1907). Special Report, February, 1907. (Outbreak No. 40.) 
Bohme (1906). Zeit. f. Hyg. lii. 97. 
Bonhoff (1904). Archiv f. Hyg. l. 222. 

Bowes and Ash ton (1898). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 1457. (Outbreak No. 22.) 
Boycott (1906). Journ. of Hygiene, vi. 33. 
Bradley (191 2). Journ. and Proc. Roy. Soc. N S. Wales, xlvi. 74. 



I 



X] GAERTNER GROUP BIBLIOGRAPHY 183 

Brown, J. P. (1915). Report on outbreak of Food Poisoning at Bacup, 

June, 1915. 
Brown, G. A. (1906). Annual Report of M. O. H. Partick. (Outbreak 
No. 37.) 

(1907). Ibid. (Outbreak No. 42.) 

Buchan (1907). Lancet, December 7th, 1907. (Outbreak No. 45.) 

(1910). Annual Report of Medical Officer of Health, St Helens. 

(Outbreak No. 65.) 
Buchanan (1896). Report of Medical Officer L.G.B. 1896-7, 115. 
Carey (19 16). Am. Journ. Public Health, vi. 124 (Feb.). 
Cathcart (1906). Journ. of Hyg. vi. 112. 

Christiansen (1917). Centralb f. Bakt. 1 Abt. Orig. lxxix. 196. 
Ciurea (1912). Zeit.f. Infekt. Krank. und Hyg. d. Haust. xii. 321. 
Collingridge (1908). Report M.O.H. City of London, 1908. 
Dammann and Stedefeder (1910). Arch.f. Tierheilkunde, xxxvi. 432. 
Danysz (1900). Annates de I'lnst. Pasteur, xiv. 193. 

(1904). Brit. Med. Journ. i. 947. 

(1909). Ibid. I. 1909. 

Davies, Heaven and Walker Hall (191 7). Public Health, xxx. 226. 

Dean (191 1). Journ. of Hyg. xi. 259. 

Delepine (1903). Ibid. in. 68. (Outbreak No. 16.) 

Dorset, Bolton and McBryde (1904). 215/ Annual Report of the 

Bureau of Animal Industry, 138. 
Durham (1898). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 600. (Outbreak No. 20.) 

(1898). Ibid. II. 1797. 

(1899). Trans, of the Path. Soc. of London, L. 262. 

Eberson (1915). Journ. of Inf. Diseases, xvii. 331. 

Ecker (1917). Ibid. xxi. 541. 

Fischer (1902). Zeit.f. Hyg. xxxix. 447. 

(1915)- Centralb. f. Bakt. Orig. lxxvii. 6. 

Ford (1905). Medical News, Lxxxvi. 1126. 

Gaffky (1892). Deutsch. med. Woch. xviii. 297. 

Gartner (1888). Breslauer drztl. Ztg. x. 249. 

Gildemeister and Baerthlein (1915). Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesund. xlvui. 

122. 
Good and Corbett (1913). Journ. of Inf. Dis. xiii. 53. 
Grabert (1907). Zeit.f. Infekt. der Haustiere, ill. 218. 
Graham-Smith (1914). Flies in relation to Disease {Non blood-sucking 

Flies). Cambridge University Press. 
Hamilton (191 2). Annual Report M.O.H. Eccles. (Outbreak No. S^.) 
Handson and Williams (1908). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 1547. 
Hay (1910). Public Health, xxiii. 181. (Outbreak No. 56.) 
Heaven (1909). Annual Report M .0 .H . Bristol. (Outbreak No. 61.) 
Henry (1900). Annual Report M.O.H. Rochdale. (Outbreak No. 27.) 
Heuser (1910). Zeit.f. Hyg. lxv. 8. 
Horn and Huber (1911). Zeit.f. Infekt. der Haust. x. 443. 



l84 GAERTNER GROUP BIBLIOGRAPHY [cil 

Horn and Huber (1912J. Centralb. f. Bakt. Grig. xxi. 452, 

Howarth and Delepine (1902) . Special Report on Derby food poisoning 

outbreak. (Outbreak No. 32.) 
Hiibener (1908). Deutsch. med. Woch. xxxiv. 1044. 

(1910). Fleischvergiftungen und Paratyphus-infektionen, Jena, 

1910. 
Hutchens and TuUoch (1914). Journ. of Path, and Bad. xviii. 431. 
Jensen (191 3). Kolle und Wassermann, Handbuch der Pathogenen 

Microorganismen, VI. 121. Article, " Kalberruhr." 
Jex-Blake and Wilson (1918). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 310. 
Joest (1907). Bericht iiber die tierdrztliche Hochschule zu Dresden filr 
1906. Dresden, 1907, no. 

(1914). Zeitschr. f. Infektionskr. der Haust. l. 307. 

Jordan, E. O. (1917). Journ. of Inf. Diseases, xx. 457. 

(1918 a). Ibid. XXII. 252. 

(1918 b). Ibid. XXII. 51T. 

Jordan and Victorson (1917). Ibid. xxi. 554. 

Karaffa-Korbutt (1912). Zeit.f. Hyg. lxxi. 161. 

Kerr and Hutchens (1914). Proc. Royal Soc. of Med. vii. (Epidem. 

Section), 171. 
Kilborne and Smith (1893). U.S. Board of Agriculture, 1893. 
Klein (1893). Journ. of Path, and Bact. 11. 214. 

(1905). Trans. Path. Society, lvi. 132. 

Kosche (1906). Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesund. xxiv. 181. 

Krickendt (1901). Archiv f. Tierheilk. xxvii. 

Krumwiede and Kohn (1917). Journ. of Med. Research, xxxvi. 509. 

Kohn and Valentine (191 8). Ibid, xxxviii. 89. 

Pratt and Kohn (1916 a). Ibid, xxxiv. 355. 

(1916 b). Ibid. XXXV. 52. 

Kutscher and Meinicke (1906). Zeit.f. Hyg. lii. 301. 
Langer and Thomann (19 14). Deut. med. Woch. xl. 493. 
Ledschbor (1909). Zeit. f. Infekt. der Haustiere, vi. 380. 
Lewis (191 1). Med. Officer's Report L.G.B. 1910-11, 314. 
Lignieres and Zabala (1905). Rec. Veterinaire, lxxxii. 

(1905). Bull. Soc. Centr. de Med. Vet. Paris, lix. 453. 

MacConkey (1906). Journ. of Hygiene, vi. 570. (Outbreak No. 31.) 
Manninger (1913). Centralb. f. Bakt. i Abt. Orig. lxx. 12. 
Mayer (1908). MUnch. med. Woch. lv. 2218. 

(1905). MUnch. med. Woch. No. 47. 

McClintock, Boxmeyer and Siffer (1905). Journ. of Inf. Diseases, 11. 

351- 
McClure (1913). Public Health, xxvi. 297. (Outbreak No. 88.) 
McWeeney (1909). Brit. Med. Journ. May, 1909, 1171. 

(1911). Journ. of Meat and Milk Hygiene, i. i, 65, 129, 192. 

(1916). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 451. 

Meissner and Berge (191 7). Deutsche tierdrztl. Woch. 



I 



X] GAERTNER GROUP BIBLIOGRAPHY 185 

Meissner, Berge and Kohlstock (191 2). Centralh. f. Bakt. i Abt. Grig. 

Lxv, 38. 
Meyer (1916). Journ. of Inf. Diseases, xix. 700. 

and Boerner (1913)- Journ. of Med. Research, xxix. 325. 

Traum and Roadhouse (1916). Journ. Am. Vet. Med. Assoc. 

XLix. 17. 
M'Gowan (1915)- The Pathology and Epidemiology of Swine Fever'. 
Report issued by Edinburgh and East of Scotland College of 
Agriculture. 

(1917)- ^ further contribution to the Pathology and Epidemiology 

of Swine Fever. Report issued by Edinburgh and East of Scot- 
land College of Agriculture. 
Mohler and Buckley (1902). igth Annual Report of the Bureau of 

Animal Industry, U.S.A. 
Morgan (1905). Brit. Med. Journ. i. 1257. 

(1906). Ibid. I. 908. 

Mori (1905). Centralb.f. Bakt. 1 Abt. Grig, xxxviii. 42. 

Miihlens, Darm and Fiirst (1908). Centralb. f. Bakt. i Abt. Grig. 

XLVIII. I. 

Miiller (1914) MUnch. med. Woch. lxi. 471. 

(1918). Centralb. f. Bakt. 1 Abt. Grig, lxxxi. 505. 

Nankivell (1913)- Public Health, xxvi. 114. (Outbreak No. 87.) 

Nason (1899). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 791. (Outbreak No. 24.) 

Neukirch (1918). Zeit.f. Hygiene, lxxxv. 103. 

Newman (1908). Public Health, xx. 310. (Outbreak No. 39.) 

Nicoll (191 1). Journ. of Hygiene, xi. 381. 

De Nobele (1898). Ann. Soc. de Med. de Gand, lxxvii. 281. 

O'Brien (1910). Journ. of Hygiene, x. 231. 

Packer (1900). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 1372. (Outbreak No. 28.) 

Pappenheimer and Wedel (191 4). Journ. Inf. Dis. xiv. t8o. 

Parkes (1905). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 1330. 

Peck and Thomson (191 1). Special Report on an Outbreak of Food 

Poisoning in Chesterfield, igii. 
Penfold (1911). Proc. Roy. Soc. of Med. (Path. Sec.),iv. 97. 
Perry and Tidy (1919). Special Report (Series No. 24) to the Medical 

Research Committee. 
Petrie and O'Brien (1911). Journ. of Hygiene, x. 287. 

(1910). Proc. Roy. Soc. of Med. iv. 70. 

Pitt (1909). Centralb. f. Bakt. i Abt. Grig. xlix. 593. 
Pottevin (1905). Ann. de I'lnst. Pasteur, xix. 426. 
Prigge and Sachsmiike (1909). Klin. Jahrb. xxi. 225. 

(1909). Ibid. XXII. 237. 

Rappin (1913). Compt. rend, de la Soc. de Biologic, lxxv. 410. 
Reinhardt and Seibold (1912 a). Centralb.f. Bakt. i Abt. Grig. lxvi. 59. 

(1912 b). Zeit. f. Inf. Krankl. und Hyg. der Haust. xii. 332. 

Reinhold(i9i2). Correspondenz-blattfiirSchweizerAerzte, 1^x11.281, ^^2. 



l86 GAERTNER GROUP BIBLIOGRAPHY [CH. 

Ridder (1909). Berlin klin. Woch. xlvi. 2232. 

Riemer (1908). Centralh. f. Bakt. 1 Abt. Grig, xlvii. 169. 

Rimpau (1908). Deut. med. Woch. xxxiv. 1045. 

(1911). Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesund. xxxviii. 348. 

Roily (1906). Munch, med. Woch. liii. p. 1798. 

Rommeler (1909). Centralb. f. Bakt. 1 Abt. Grig. l. 505. 

Russ and Trawinski (1918). Zeit. f. Haust. und Inf. lxxxv. 32. 

Sacquepee (1909). Les Empoisonnements Alimentaires, Paris, 1909. 

and Bellot (1910^ Le progrhs medicate, xxvi. 25. 

Savage (1905). Journ. of Path, and Bact. x. 341. 

(1907). Med. Officer's Report L.G.B. 1906-7, 253. 

(1908 a). Ibid. 1907-8, 425. 

(1908 b). Journ. of Royal San. Instit. xxix. 366. 

(1909). Med. Officer's Report L.G.B. 1908-9, 316. 

(1910). Ibid. 1909-10, 446. 

(1912). Journ. of Hygiene, xii. i. 

(191 3). Report to the Local Government Board on Bacterial Food 

Poisoning and Food Infections, pp. 80. (Food Reports, No. t8.) 

(1918 a). Journ. of Hygiene, xvii. 20. 

(1918 b). Ibid. XVII. 34. 

and Gunson (1908). Journ. of Hygiene, viii. 601. (Outbreak 



No. 46.) 

and Read (1913). Ibid. xii. 343. 

and Forbes (1918). Ibid. xvii. 460. 

Scarisbrick (1911). The Medical Officer, Mdij, 2 jy. (Outbreak No. 76.) 
Schellhorn (1910). Centralh. f. Bakt. i Abt. Grig. liv. 428. 
Schern (1909). Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesund. xxx. ^j^. 

(1910)- Ibid, xxxiii. 387. 

and Stange (1914)- Zeit. f. Infekt. der Haustiere, xv. 107. 

(1914)- Ibid. XV. 341. 

Schibayama (1907). Miinch. med. Woch. liv. 979. 
Schmidt (1907). Deutsche tierdrztliche Woch. xvi. 685. 
Seiffert (1909)- Zeit. f. Hyg. lxiii. 273. 
Selter (1916). Ibid, lxxxi. 387. 

Sergeant (1908). Special Report of Lancashire CM .0 .H . (Outbreak 
No. 47.) 

(1914)- Ibid. (Outbreak No. 95.) 

Smith and Reagh (1903). Journ. of Med. Research, ix. 270. 
Sobernheim (1910). Centralb. f. Bakt. Ref. xlvii. Beit, zu Abteil. 170. 

and Seligmann (1910). Zeit. f. Immunitdtforschung. Grig. vi. 

401. 

Tartakowsky, Nocard et Lechlaenche. Les maladies microbiennes des 

animaux. 
Ten Broeck (1916). Journ. Exp. Med. xxiv. 213. 

(1917). Ibid. XXVI. 437. 

Thomassen (1897). Ann. de I'lnst. Pasteur, xi, 523. 



X] GAERTNER GROUP BIBLIOGRAPHY 187 

Tiberti (1908). Zeit. f. Hyg. -lx. 41. 

(191 1). Lo Sperimentale , 195. 

Titze and Weichel (1909). Deutsche tierdrztl. Woch. 1909. 

(1909-10). Arh. a. d. Kais. Gesund. xxxiii. 516. 

Torrey and Rahl (1912). Journ. of Med. Research, xxvii. 291. 
Trautmann (1902). Zeit. f. Hyg. xliv. 

(1903)- Ibid. XLV. 139. 

Trawinski (1917). Ibid, lxxxiii. 117, 

(1918). Centralb. f. Bakt. Grig. lxxx. 339. 

Trommsdorff, Rajchman and Porter (191 1). Journ. of Hygiene, xi. 

89. (Outbreak No. 69.) 
Uhlenhuth (1909)- Centralb. f. Bakt. Ref. xliv. Beiheft. 

(191 1). Journ. Roy. Inst, of Public Health, xix. 577. 

and Haendel (1913). Article " Schweinepest und Schweine- 

seuche," KoUe und Wassermann's Handbuch, 11. Part vi. 

and Hiibener (1908). Medizinische Klinik, November 29th, 

1823. 

(1908). Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesund. 

Hiibener, Xylanderand Bohtz (1908). Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesund. 



xxvii. 425. 
Ulrich (1906). Zeit.f. Hyg. liii. 176. 
United States Dep. of Agric. (1893). Bureau of Animal Industry Bull. 

No. 3, pages 49 and 53. 
Van Ermengem (1903) . Kolle und Wassermann, Handbuch der Patho- 

genen Microorganismen, 11. 637. 
Van Heelsbergen (1914). Centralb. f. Bakt. i Abt. Orig. lxxii. 38. 

(1914). Zeitschr. f. Infekt. der Haustiere, xvi. 195. 

Weichel (1910). Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesund. xxxiv. 247. 
Weiss (1916). Proc. of the New York Pathol. Soc. xvi. 139. 
Williams (1910). Journ. Roy. Instit. of Public Health, xviii. 725. 

(Outbreak No. 69.) 
Williams, Murray and Rundle (1910). Lancet, 11. 730. 
Willoughby (1906). Public Health, xviii. 626. (Outbreak No. 35.) 
Winzer (1911). Zeit.f. Fleisch- und Milch-hyg. xxii. 81. (Abstract 

in Journ. of Comp. Path, and Therap. xxv. ^y.) 
Xylander (1908a). Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesund. xxviii. 145. 

(19086). Zeit. f. Fleisch- u. Milch-hyg. May, 241. (Abstract in 

Journ. Comp. Path, and Therap. 1908, xxi. 259.) 
Zeller (1909). Zeit. f. Infekt. der Haustiere, v. 361. 
Zingle (1914). Ibid. xv. 268. 

Zschiesche (1918). Centralb. f. Bakt. i Abt. Orig. lxxx. 351. 
Zweifel (191 1). Ibid. j. Abt. Orig. lviii. 115. 
Zwick (1909). Ibid. xliv. Ref. Beiheft. 132. 

and Weichel (1910). Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesund. xxxiii. 250. 

(1910). Ibid, xxxiv. 391. 

(1911)- Ibid, xxxviii. 327. 



CHAPTER XI 

CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD, 
INTRODUCED UNINTENTIONALLY 

Part I. Introduced mainly in connection with 
processes of manufacture. 

Foodstuffs being so varied in nature and frequently so 
diverse in origin and methods of preparation, it is obvious 
that there is a considerable possibility that in one way or 
another an extensive range of harmful chemical substances 
may be introduced. In practice, however, not a large 
number have been detected, the most important being salts 
of arsenic, tin, lead, and occasionally barium. 

Arsenic. Arsenical compounds are widely diffused in 
nature, and although minute traces are not uncommon in 
many foods, or in materials either used as food or for the 
preparation of food, it was not until the extensive and wide- 
spread outbreak of arsenical poisoning in 1900 directed special 
attention to the subject that the danger of arsenic in food 
was realized and in any degree adequately investigated. 
This outbreak so well illustrates the dangers of chemical food 
contamination from sources not immediately concerned with 
food production and has been so fully investigated by a 
Royal Commission (1901) that it is instructive and important 
to consider it in some detail. 

During the latter part of igoo there occurred in England 
and Wales exceptional sickness and deaths attributable to 
poisoning by arsenic. This sickness, which assumed epidemic 
proportions, principally affected districts in Lancashire and 
Staffordshire but was not confined to those counties. The 
total number of persons attacked was at least 6000 and prob- 
ably the number was very considerably higher. 

The evidence showed conclusively that the epidemic was 
attributable to beer which had become contaminated with 
arsenic at numerous breweries. In every case the beer was 



CH. XI] CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD 189 

supplied^ from particular breweries and all of them used 
brewing sugars (i.e. glucose and invert sugar) supplied by a 
single firm. These two sugars are extensively used in brew- 
eries as adjuncts to, or as partial substitutes for, malt and 
as priming solutions which are added after the fermentation 
of the wort. The quantities of arsenic detected in specimens 
of these sugars was relatively large, and were found by differ- 
ent chemists to vary from o-oo8 to 0-131 per cent. (0-56 to 
9-17 grains per lb.) in the glucose and from 0-02 to 0-062 per 
cent. (1-4 to 4-34 grains per lb.) in the invert sugar, all 
estimated as arsenious oxide. 

This heavy contamination with arsenic was traced to the 
use, by the firm implicated, of sulphuric acid all supplied 
from one firm of acid makers. The amount of arsenic in this 
acid was found to be exceptionally high, amounts varying 
from 1*4 to 2-6 per cent, of arsenious oxide being found by 
different analysts. 

The firm supplying the arsenical sulphuric acid did not 
inform the firm making the brewing sugars that their acid 
contained arsenic, and stated in their evidence that they did 
not know the purpose for which it was required. 

The proportions of glucose and invert sugar used in the 
preparation of the disease-producing beers were as a general 
rule no greater than those which are used in many other 
English breweries. The amounts of arsenic present in the 
beers brewed with the contaminated sugars must have varied 
greatly at different breweries and in different kinds of beers 
since the proportions of these sugars used varied consider- 
ably, while material differences would result due to the stage 
at which the sugar was introduced into the beer. As a rule 
the proportion of arsenic in the beers actually used was 
probably 0-25 to i grain per gallon or even less, although in 
exceptional cases amounts as high as 1-5 and 3 grains per 
gallon were detected. 

While some of the sufferers were moderate beer drinkers 
the majority seem to have been heavy drinkers of this 
beverage. 

As was to be anticipated, in view of the great variations 
in dosage and the duration of the period over which arsenical 



190 CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD [CH. 

beer was drunk and the differences between individual beer 
drinkers as regards age, sex, conditions of nutrition and 
habits as regards alcohol, the disease produced by the 
arsenical beer during the epidemic varied greatly in its 
manifestations. 

There occurred throughout the epidemic, and particularly 
towards its termination, an abundance of cases with symp- 
toms corresponding to those described as characteristic of 
sub-acute poisoning by arsenic. "They showed, for example, 
inflammation of various mucous surfaces leading to coryza, 
huskiness, lachrymation and the like; gastro-intestinal dis- 
turbances and diarrhoea ; peripheral neuritis affecting sensory 
and motor nerves and in some cases associated with herpes 
or with well-marked ery thromelagia ; keratosis; or recent 
pigmentation corresponding to that which not infrequently 
occurs in persons taking arsenic for long periods." In addi- 
tion numerous cases were met with in which these kinds of 
symptoms were slight or absent altogether. 

The Royal Commission found it impossible to determine 
with any accuracy the number of fatal cases, but seventy 
were definitely recorded from this cause, and undoubtedly 
this was only part of the total. 

The outbreak naturally directed the attention of the Com- 
missioners to other possible ways in which arsenic may gain 
access to beer, and they reported that small quantities might 
be derived from malt, the grain being exposed when on the 
kiln to the products of combustion of fuel containing arsenical 
materials, and from chemical substances used, other than 
sugars, containing minute quantities of arsenic. 

In nearly every case samples of brewing sugars from other 
sources were found arsenic-free, and the Commissioners con- 
cluded that arsenic-free beer was practicable. 

As regards the presence of arsenic in beer before the out- 
break, the Royal Commissioners state "There can be no 
doubt that a considerable proportion of beer brewed in some 
parts of the country before 1900 contained noteworthy 
quantities of arsenic, mainly derived from malt and from 
brewing sugars." 

An outbreak of about fourteen cases at Halifax in 1902 was 



XI] CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD 19I 

traced to beer containing arsenic and the evidence pointed 
strongly to the conclusion that the implicated beers had been 
contaminated by arsenic derived from malt used in their 
preparation. In nearly every instance the malt concerned 
had been dried over local gas coke, and malt dried in this 
way was found in the 1901 inquiries to be especially liable' 
to contain arsenic. 

The Commissioners expressed the opinion that much of the 
alcoholic neuritis occurring among beer drinkers before 1900, 
and particularly in localities such as Manchester, was attribut- 
able to arsenic in beer. 

The Commissioners considered that the exclusion of small 
quantities of arsenic from food and drink is of greater im- 
portance than might at first sight be supposed. Clinically 
the effect of quite small quantities of arsenic administered 
over long periods with food cannot be said to have been 
fully studied: evidence of marked toxicity may be absent, 
but yet the arsenic may have unrecognized effects upon 
nutrition. They add "it would be unwise to express an 
opinion that any quantity of arsenic, however small, is to 
be regarded as admissible in any article of food, and we think 
it should be the aim of the food manufacturer to exclude 
arsenic altogether from his products." 

It is well known that in the past arsenical poisoning has 
been caused by the consumption of sweets coloured with 
arsenical pigments, but this crude form of poisoning is prob- 
ably a thing of the past. That arsenic may, however, gain 
access to sweets from other sources, although probably 
of very rare occurrence, is shown by the interesting 
outbreak in Manchester in 1908, carefully described by 
J. R. Hutchinson (1910). 

In this outbreak sixty-two known cases of poisoning oc- 
curred, fifty-six in children attending four schools, five in 
children under school age and one in an adult, the mother 
of one of the children attacked. Fortunately the amount of 
arsenic in the sweets was so large that in all cases vomiting 
was promptly caused and, after a transient illness, all the 
sufferers were quickly well again, usually the same or next 
>^- day. The s5miptoms in every case were those of an acute 






192 CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD [CH. 

irritant poison with sudden onset with acute vomiting. As 
a rule this was the only symptom, although abdominal pain 
was met with in some children and purging in others. 

Delepine examined the sweets and found two kinds, dis- 
tinguished by their physical appearance, one of which was 
arsenic free, while the other contained as much as an average 
of 10 to II grains of arsenic per pound of sweets. Some of 
the larger sweets contained probably not less than ^jj grain 
of arsenic in each. 

Although detailed inquiries were made into the origin of 
the arsenic, the source was never satisfactorily ascertained. 
Glucose entered largely into the composition of the sweets 
and the probability is that this was the vehicle of convey- 
ance, but this could not be established. If so the glucose 
must have been very highly contaminated with arsenic. 

There are several other sources from which arsenic may 
get into foods. For example, Smith (1912) has shown that 
food may be contaminated with small quantities of arsenic 
from shellac which is used not infrequently as a coating for 
some kinds of cheap confectionery. It is used as a varnish 
for different food containers. 

The modern spraying of fruits and vegetables with insec- 
ticide solutions is another possible source of arsenic and 
other metals. Arsenic is an ingredient of many insecticide 
solutions and may gain access to food from this source with 
want of care. MacFadden (1913-4), for instance, mentions 
that during 1914 a consignment of apples from the United 
States had on their skins a bluish deposit, evidently the 
remains of an insecticide wash. Analysis showed that copper 
in small quantities and arsenic in traces were present in this 
deposit. 

This subject has recently been investigated by the New 
Hampshire (U.S.A.) Agricultural Experiment Station (1917) 
in regard to the use of lead arsenate solution. This report 
shows that in the case of apples the maximum amount of 
the poison that may be expected to occur on the fruit 
would not exceed 0-5 mgm. per apple. In the case of small 
fruit the possibility of danger is greater and half a pint of 
strawberries may carry as much as 8 mg. of oxide of arsenic. 



XI] CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD I93 

Such a dose while insufficient to cause symptoms in an adult 
in the ordinary way might affect enfeebled adults or children. 
In the same way green vegetables, such as cabbages or lettuce, 
may be infected and carry a relatively large amount of poison. 

Recently arsenic has been found in a considerable number 
of samples of baking powder substitute (MacFadden, 1916-7).' 
In these samples the ingredients of the baking powder 
mixture were cream of tartar substitute (acid calcium phos- 
phate, sodium bicarbonate and ground rice). All the arsenic 
was contained in the acid calcium phosphate. Extensive 
inquiries were made and arsenic was found in many samples 
from many different parts of the country. While in the 
majority of cases the amounts reported were relatively 
small and, as judged by the limit laid down by the Royal 
Commission on Arsenical Poisoning (o-oi grain of arsenic 
per pound, equal to 1-43 parts per million), not calling for 
special action, in about fifty cases the amounts found reached 
as much as 400 parts of arsenic per million. One sample of 
unmixed acid calcium phosphate contained as much as 4-5 
grains of arsenic per pound (or 643 parts per million) . When 
traced to the source the poison was found to be derived 
from sulphuric acid contaminated with arsenic which was 
used to prepare the acid calcium phosphate. 

Antimony. Like arsenic, antimony is widely distributed 
in nature and is a powerful poison, but the writer is unaware 
of any outbreaks of poisoning, acute or chronic, from this 
metal or its salts in food. Pond (1905) showed that the red 
rubber rings used for mineral water bottles contained large 
quantities of antimony and that particles of these rings may 
be ingested with the mineral water. He suggested this as a 
possible cause of appendicitis, but no evidence of poisoning 
from this source has been actually reported. 

Lead. Lead occurs to a considerable extent in articles 
brought into close association with food. For example, 
some of the enamels used for glazing earthenware contain 
lead, tea is wrapped in lead foil, wine bottles are sometimes 
cleaned by shaking lead shot in them, soda water siphons 
are fitted with valves containing lead, cider may be heavily 
contaminated with lead from vessels used in the course of 

S.F.P. 13 



194 CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD [CH. 

its manufacture, tins for meat preparations may contain and 
give up lead. 

In all these ways lead may gain access to food and be a 
cause of chronic poisoning, but few definite recorded cases 
from these sources have been recorded, except from con- 
taminated cider. 

An interesting case was observed by Halenke and reported 
by him to Lehmann (1902). Two women ate cranberry tart 
for which they had cooked the cranberries in a cheap earthen- 
ware pot. Soon after eating part of the tart they became ill, 
one severely so. The glaze had been dissolved from the 
inside of the pot. A piece of the tart contained 160 mg. of 
lead. It was estimated that each woman had consumed 
from 400 to 600 mg. of malate of lead and that approxi- 
mately as much as 1000 mg. had been dissolved in this 
single cooking. 

Cider, which contains malic acid, was at one time respon- 
sible for a number of cases of lead poisoning from being 
allowed to come into contact with lead vats during the pro- 
cess of manufacture. Cases of lead poisoning from this 
cause were reported as long ago as 1767 by Baker. 

Copper. This metal may occur in foods in minute quan- 
tities, but very rarely is present in amounts capable of setting 
up disease symptoms when derived from accidental sources. 

In the Report of the Sanitary Department of the German 
Army for 1894 to 1896 it is recorded (see British Medical 
Journal, 1898, November 12th, p. 1532) that seventy-five 
men of an infantry regiment were seized with very severe 
diarrhoea. It was found that all the men attacked had eaten 
food cooked in copper utensils, and copper was found by 
chemical analysis both in the fragments left and in the 
dejecta. The symptoms were those of copper poisoning with 
the peculiarity that in some cases there was a considerable 
rise of temperature. 

Its intentional addition to foods is dealt with in Chapter 
XII. 

The occasional presence of copper salts in oysters is well 
known although the popular impression is incorrect that all 
''green oysters" are so coloured because of the presence of 



XI] CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD 195 

this metal. Bulstrode (1894-5) reported that green oysters 
from certain Cornish beds contained copper which imparted 
to them a distinct metalhc taste, and Thorpe found that the 
average amount of copper in these oysters, estimated as 
cupric oxide, was about 0-02 grains per oyster, the amount, 
however, showing considerable variation in individual mo- 
lusks. The metallic taste would discourage consumption, 
while a considerable number of such oysters would have to 
be consumed to yield a poisonous dose of copper. 

More recently MacFadden (19 13-14) reported the presence 
of considerable amounts of copper and zinc in certain oysters 
obtained in Liverpool. The analytical results showed that 
zinc was present on an average in an amount more than 
double that of the copper found, and MacFadden remarks 
''if this ratio should prove to be of common occurrence in 
oysters contaminated by metals of this group it is by no 
means certain that the protection afforded by abnormal 
colour and taste would suffice to safeguard consumers 
against serious risk of metallic poisoning from zinc, the 
presence of which would not be so obvious." 

Part 11. Chemicals added from the action of the food 
upon the retainers in which it is put upon the 
market. 

A striking feature of modern civilization is the extent to 
which food of various kinds is preserved and sold, not in 
the fresh condition, but stored in receptacles under con- 
ditions which preserve the food in an eatable condition. 
The amount of food canned is now enormous. For example, 
Report No. 54, "Canned Foods," of the Department of Com- 
merce, states that in 19 14 the value of foods canned in the 
United States alone amounted to about 258 million dollars, 
over 103 million cases being packed. 

The kinds of foodstuffs canned are very varied, but are 
mainly condensed milk, meat foods, fish, shellfish, fruits and 
vegetables. 

Nature of the retainers. Writing in 1908 Dr MacFadden 
(1908) remarks, "Until recent years most of the preserved 

13 — 2 



196 CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD [CH. 

foods manufactured in this country were packed in tin-plate 
receptacles. Tin-plate is a convenient material for this 
purpose, as an efficient seal can easily be procured in vessels 
made from it and no special disadvantage arises from sub- 
jecting them to high temperatures, thus enabling sterilization 
of their contents to be readily effected. Besides this, tin- 
packed goods are much more easily and safely transportable, 
and occupy less storage space than vessels of an equal 
capacity made from glass or earthenware. For these reasons 
tin-plate is still used in the packing of almost all preserved 
foods imported into this country, and also of many of those 
exported from it. It has been supplanted of late years to a 
very large extent, however, by glass and earthenware, more 
especially the former, in the case of goods intended for the 
home market. 

"So much have glass-packed food materials advanced in 
public favour, that it appears to be profitable for certain 
home manufacturers to transfer imported canned meats, 
such as tongues, sardines, etc., from their tin receptacles 
into glass containers. The fact that a considerable quantity 
of the preserved food in this country is sold in glass retainers 
does not therefore exclude the possibility of the food being 
contaminated with tin, transferred from a tin-plate recep- 
tacle." 

Metals which gain access. Although iron and lead may 
gain access in small quantities, the comparative harmlessness 
of the one and the minute quantities added of the other 
render contamination with these metals of no practical 
importance and the only metallic addition of any real 
significance is tin. The comprehensive report by Buchanan 
and Schryver (1908) to the Local Government Board gives 
much information upon this subject and has been largely 
relied upon for the following facts. 

The amount of tin which may he present. The amount 
found is influenced by the following four factors. 

[a) The nature of the food canned. Buchanan summing 
up the matter states "Practically all foods canned in the 
ordinary way become to some extent contaminated with tin 
as a result of the contact of the food with the tin-plate of 



XlJ CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD 197 

the can. Tin is taken up by meat extracts and essences to a 
greater extent than by most other meats. This results from 
the acidity naturally possessed by the meat extractives in 
these preparations. Certain canned fruits and vegetables, 
and foods, such as canned soups of which the latter forrn 
part, are also specially liable to take up tin from the can in 
consequence of their natural acidity. Canned peaches, 
cherries, pears, apricots, pineapples, tomatoes, asparagus, 
canned fruit puddings, and tomato soup are included in this 
category. Notable quantities of tin have been found in 
certain samples of canned lobster. 

"In such cases tin may penetrate into the substance of 
solid foods, and in the case of canned foods which consist of 
both liquid and solid portions, e.g., canned fruit, the solid 
portion may come to contain relatively larger proportions 
of tin than the liquid. This results from the fact that the 
tin, after solution in the liquid contents of the can, becomes 
in course of time adsorbed to, or chemically combined with, 
the solid contents." 

This point is of importance since it is usually assumed that 
the tin is in solution. If separate estimates of the tin in the 
drained solids and in the liquor be made it will be found 
that a large proportion of the tin is in an insoluble form. 
The longer the food has been canned the higher is the pro- 
portion of insoluble tin, the tin in solution being slowly 
rendered insoluble. 

Wirthle, for example, found that with preserved meats 
canned for some time the meat contained three times as much 
tin as the juice. 

As regards the actual amounts found Schryver summarises 
the results of some 130 analyses of different canned goods, 
most of which had been kept a considerable time, in the 
following table : 

Foodstuffs containing 

Less than i grain per pound 
Between i and 2 grains per pound 
Between 2 and 3 grains per pound 
More than 3 grains per pound ... 

Where maxima or minima only are quoted, one maximum number and 
one minimum number are included in this total. 



umber 


Percentage of total 


72 


55-4 


35 


26-9 


17 


130 


6 


4-6 



198 



CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD 



FCH. 



The very comprehensive report upon selected and repre- 
sentative varieties of canned foods made by an American 
Technical Committee (1917) gives a good idea of the amounts 
found, as shown in the following table : 



Nature of the food 

Michigan apples 
New York apples 
Pennsylvania apples 
String beans 

Cider 

Clam juice 
Condensed milk 

Corn 

Peas 

Pumpkin 



Average tin contents — 
maxima and minima 
(in milligrms per kilo) 



Remarks 



68—73 
166—175 

63—79 
85—181 

73—128 

17—34 
5 — 22 
6—25 

14 — 22 

39 — 666 



Tomatoes 

Salmon ... 
Tuna fish 



47—89 

36—52 
10—38 



f Age varied from i to 1 1 months. 
\ Only slight increase with time in 
i containers. 
Regular increase with time in 

containers (4 to 13^ months). 
Slight increase with storage. 
Very little variation. 
(Very little at any time, with slight 
1 increase during storage. 
No appreciable difference with 

storage. 
Wide variations met with. Varied 
with the kind. Thus New York 
pumpkins usually contained less 
than TOO mgrms, while Illinois 
pumpkins usually 300 to 600. 
Marked increase with time of 
storage. 
Very uniform on the whole as re- 
gards amount of tin and very 
slight increase with storage. 

at one age, i.e. 8i 



All examined 

months. 
At first only 10-15 mgrm. 

only increased to 23-38 

12 months storage. 



and 
after 



(b) The age of the tins, i.e. the period since canning. The 
quantity of tin taken up from the can usually increases with 
the time since canning but varies, as shown in the above 
table, with the kind of food. In the case of acid foodstuffs, 
solution seems to take place at a somewhat greater rate 
during the first few months after canning than at subsequent 
periods. 

(c) The quality of the tin-plate. Buchanan states "The 
quality of tin-plate used for the canning of foods varies very 
considerably, and there is no doubt that tin-plate is often 
employed in which the coating of tin has been reduced to a 
minumum from considerations of cheapness, with the result 



XI] CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD 199 

that a comparatively small erosion will in parts expose the 
steel or iron of the plate, and thereby facilitate an electro- 
lytic action likely to accelerate the further solution of the 
tin." 

The American Technical Committee paid special attentior^ 
to this point, which indeed was the main object of their 
investigation, but found that none of the difficulties en- 
countered, (including such points as perforation of the cans, 
discoloration of cans or contents, or amount of tin) in the 
twenty experimental packs of twelve representative foods 
in plain cans, were eliminated by heavy tin coatings. 

{d) The solder used and the method of soldering. As 
Buchanan remarks, "if solder (containing both tin and lead) 
is allowed to gain access to the interior of the can a very 
conspicuous solution of tin may take place. A can only a 
few months old in which this has happened may show a 
greater degree of tin contamination of its contents than a 
properly sealed can which has been kept for many years and 
used for similar material." Contamination by tin in this 
way is the more serious on account of the simultaneous risk 
of serious contamination by lead. 

The toxicity of tin. Tin may exert a toxic action in two 
definite ways. The amount taken into the body with the 
food may be so considerable that a single dose may set up 
acute symptoms, or chronic poisoning may be induced by 
much smaller quantities taken over a long period. Schryver 
(1908) has collected details of a few recorded cases of acute 
tin poisoning from foodstuffs. They are very few in number 
and in all the symptoms were those of acute irritant poisoning 
with rapid onset. He remarks "So far as may be gathered 
such irritant poisoning has been produced in adults who 
have taken at a single meal a quantity of tin equal to two 
grains, or thereabouts. It will also be noticed that in some 
of these cases the dose has apparently been taken in a small 
bulk of food, in circumstances which suggest that the pro- 
portion of tin present in the food which caused the mischief 
was rather of the order found in canned foods which owe 
their metallic contamination to escape of solder than of the 
kind which may be present in well-soldered tins that are 



200 CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD [CH. 

merely 'old.' At the same time it must be remembered that 
it is only the severe cases that are at all likely to receive 
investigation and record, and it is impossible to ignore the 
probability that taking at a single sitting food which con- 
tained the equivalent of 2 grains of tin (or even an amount 
materially less than 2 grains) would result in gastro-intes- 
tinal disturbance, whether the tin was concentrated in a 
small bulk of food or present in a larger mass. 

"On the other hand it may be regarded as established by 
general experience that canned foods, such as fruits, which 
when consumed within a few months of canning must often 
contain quantities of tin, such as J grain per pound, do not 
in ordinary circumstances occasion gastro-intestinal irrita- 
tion in the amount usually taken at a single meal." 

Buchanan summarising this question accepts the view 
that this irritant action may result when tin salts are present 
in foods in such quantities as may lead to i or 2 grains of 
tin being taken at a time. The concentration of the tin in 
the food, the condition of the stomach at the time the food 
was swallowed, the susceptibility of the individual and other 
circumstances would no doubt largely govern the result in 
individual cases. It is clear that canned foods which are 
capable of causing such symptoms contain much larger 
amounts of tin than occur in the canned foods ordinarily 
supplied for consumption. Buchanan suggests that when 
as much as 2 grains to the pound are found, the food should 
be regarded with grave suspicion and as "potentially dele- 
terious to health." He also draws attention to the desira- 
bility from an administrative point of view of requiring the 
date and place of preparation to be shown on the labels or 
to be otherwise available when required. 

As regards evidence of chronic poisoning Schryver was 
unable to trace any instances in which such chronic poisoning 
had followed as a result of the continued ingestion, along 
with food, of comparative small doses of tin. He experi- 
mented upon himself over a period of three weeks, taking 
during the first week approximately i grain (64-5 mgrm.) 
of tin per day, during the second week 2 grains per day and 
3 grains per day for the third week. He made careful analyses 



XI] CHEMICAL POISONS IN FOOD 201 

of the faeces and urine and found that when the quantities 
ingested were i to 2 grains per day no evidence of accumula- 
tion was forthcoming at the end of a fortnight, but that 
when the amount taken reached 3 grains per day the excre- 
tion of the tin did not keep pace with the intake. 

Schryver also considered, and discusses in his report, the 
results of different observers with animal experiments and 
concluded from all the different investigations that "they 
do not indicate much probability of serious risk of chronic 
poisoning by the absorption of non-irritant compounds of 
tin as a result of a diet which consists largely of canned 
foods and is continued over considerable periods of time." 

The general results recorded above, and others in the 
literature, do not suggest that tin plays any part of import- 
ance in connection with food poisoning acute or chronic. 



REFERENCES. 

Buchanan and Schryver (1908). L.G.B. Reports of Inspector of Foods. 

No. 7, "On the presence of tin in certain canned foods." 
Bulstrode (1894-5). L.G.B. Report on oyster culture in relation to 

disease, 99-108. 
Hutchinson, J. R. (1910). Jonrn. Roy. Inst. Public Health, xviii. 601. 
Lehmann (1902). Hygienische Rund. xii. 785. 

MacFadden (1908). L.G.B. Reports of Inspector of Foods. No. 6, 
"On preservatives in meat foods packed in cans or glass." 

(1913-4). L.G.B. Report on the Work of Inspectors of Foods for 

the year 1913-4, 106. 
(1916-7). L.G.B. Report on the Work of Inspectors of Foods for 



the year 191 6-7, 6. 
New Hampshire Agric. Exper. Station Bulletin 183, June, 1917, and 

Journ. Am. Med. Assoc. 1917, lxix. 1083. 
Pond (1905). Lancet, 1. 1610. 
Report of an Investigation by a Technical Committee representing 

The National Canners Association, The American Sheet and Tin 

Plate Company, and The American Can Company: "Relative 

value of Different Weights of Tin Coating on Canned Food 

Containers." 191 7. 
Royal Commission on Arsenical Poisoning, 1901. Part i. Report; 

Part II. Final Report. 
Smith (1912). U.S. Dept. Agric. Bureau of Chemistry, Washington. 
Wirthle. Chem. Zeitschr. xxiv. 263. 



CHAPTER XII 

CHEMICALS DELIBERATELY ADDED TO FOOD- 
CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 

There are many problems in the realm of preventive 
medicine which are still the subject of acute controversy and 
about which wide differences of opinion are held, both as to 
the actual facts and as to their interpretation. In spite of 
the large volume of evidence which has been presented, the 
considerable body of facts which have been collected and 
the immense mass of more or less hypothetical considerations 
which have been advanced, the question of the necessity and 
safety of chemical preservatives in foods yet remains a con- 
troversial matter upon which very different opinions are 
held. 

Owing to the perishable nature of foods and the fact that 
at certain times some are plentiful while at others difficult 
to get or unobtainable, man, for many centuries and indeed 
throughout his historical existence, has resorted to forms of 
food preservation. In addition he found that preservation 
in some of its forms materially altered the taste and quality 
of the food and thus gave him new, and frequently more 
palatable, types of food. With the growth of tribes into 
nations and of nations from agricultural to industrial com- 
munities this necessity of keeping unimpaired the food of 
seasons of plenty to times of scarcity has been accentuated, 
while the advantages of enabling rapidly perishable articles 
to be transported in a good condition from regions of origin 
to places of consumption have, with industrial concentration 
of the population, largely extended the practice. 

It has come therefore to be a commonplace that a large 
part of the food of the community is not eaten in its original 
condition but after various manipulations, all in the direction 
of preventing bacterial decomposition and so allowing the 
food to be kept for more or less prolonged periods. 



CH. XII] CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 203 

The earlier methods of preservation were largely non- 
chemical in nature, such as drying or smoking, but the latter 
is really a chemical process, chemicals, such as creosote, 
being developed and acting as preservatives. Further deve- 
lopments have been along the lines of using such well-known 
substances as common salt, sugar and vinegar. The use of 
nitre (potassium nitrate) may be considered as an example 
of the employment of a substance intermediate between 
these older substances and the more modern chemical pre- 
servatives. 

To these older processes, sanctioned by custom and used 
without demonstrable harm, no objection on the score of 
injury to health has been raised, nor can any objection be 
advanced on this ground to the use of the non-chemical 
methods of preservation by heat and refrigeration. The con- 
troversy has raged round the addition of certain more 
recently discovered chemical substances specially used as 
preservatives to prevent bacterial decomposition, and these 
only need to be discussed here. 

Concurrently with this development, chemical substances 
have come to be also used not to preserve the food, but to 
enhance its attractiveness, by giving a fictitious appear- 
ance of quality, or to pander to a popular prejudice in favour 
of supplying a food of a particular appearance or colour. 
This group includes the different colouring matters added to 
food and such special matters as the addition of copper salts 
to peas or other vegetables. 

The whole subject of preservatives in food cannot be 
treated here with the detailed consideration which its im- 
portance demands, but it will be possible to discuss in the 
space available the salient considerations and their relation- 
ship to food poisoning and food infections. Two extreme 
attitudes have been adopted amongst others. One party 
has taken the line that as these chemical preservatives are 
in the main substances with definite physiological actions 
upon the human body, causing poisonous symptoms when 
administered in sufficient doses, therefore they should be 
entirely excluded from food unless those who wish to add 
them can adduce evidence sufficient to prove that they are 



204 CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES [CH. 

harmless to man. The other extreme view adopts in practice 
the standpoint that it is for those who object to their intro- 
duction to demonstrate their harmfulness and that until 
this has been done they should be allowed to employ them. 

The most obvious fact in the whole controversy is its 
extreme complicatedness since it involves questions of 
dosage, the varying reactions of individuals to drugs, 
problems of elimination under different conditions and the 
study of a whole series of chemicals, some of which are 
used in combination, while additions to the list are con- 
stantly being made. 

Evidence of the prejudicial effect of the addition of these 
chemical preservatives has been adduced along a number of 
lines, the following being the most important : 

(i) That the preservative added is itself harmful to man 
in the amounts found or which may be present. 

(2) That the addition of these preservatives allows the 
food to be collected, prepared or stored under conditions 
which are prejudicial to health, such methods being com- 
mercially practicable only because the addition of pre- 
servatives prevents the food decomposition which these 
unhygienic practices would render inevitable. 

(3) That while these preservatives in the amounts found 
may not be harmful to normal man they are likely to be 
detrimental to certain sections of the community, i.e. the 
delicate, diseased or young. The cogency of this argument is 
augmented by the fact that for most foods the law does not 
require disclosure of the presence or amount of preservatives 
and that it is therefore impossible to ensure or safeguard in 
any satisfactory way that such sensitive persons may not be 
dosed with these chemicals without their consent or know- 
ledge. 

(4) That the fact that our present knowledge may not be 
sufficient to allow the formulation of conclusive evidence as 
to harmfulness to be forthcoming does not invalidate the 
possibility that their administration, especially over pro- 
longed periods, may be a cause of ill health. In other words 
it is a fair line of argument to take that the addition to food 
of substances which are known poisons in large doses may 



XII] CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 205 

exert a definite, if unknown, effect upon the tissues of the 
animal organism and so be a cause of chronic disease, and 
that the pubUc should not be exposed to these unknown, 
although problematical, risks without their knowledge and 
consent. 

Suggested selective bacterial action of preservatives. In con- 
nection with (2) above it has been suggested that chemical 
preservatives may be peculiarly prejudicial by exerting a 
selective action on bacteria, restraining the putrefactive and 
other types which would make the food obtrusively unsound 
while allowing the more pathogenic bacteria to develop, if 
not unchecked at least not restrained, to the same extent. 

Griinbaum^, for example, concluded that "The addition of 
a small quantity of a preservative like borax does not hinder 
the growth of microorganisms as a whole, although it does 
repress the putrefactive ones." Bernstein ^ developed this 
idea, experimenting only with boric acid. He found that this 
chemical to the extent of 0-3 per cent. (20 grains per pound) 
prevented objective decomposition while if putrefaction had 
commenced it inhibited further changes. He found that its 
inhibitory action was greater against proteus organisms than 
against B. coli, and was more marked than its action on 
B. typhosus or B. enteritidis. Klein^ carried out a few experi- 
ments in this direction but with a different result, finding 
that a marked inhibitory action was exhibited by 0-5 per 
cent, boric acid on both B. coli and B. enteritidis, but rather 
less on the latter, in both broth and sausage meat. 

The experimental evidence is scanty and very incomplete 
and does not satisfactorily establish the point, while no 
experiments appear to have been carried out to test the 
action of these chemical preservatives upon the putrefactive 
anaerobes. On general grounds it is unlikely that less re- 
sistant organisms, like B. typhosus and members of the 
Gaertner group, should survive in the presence of preserva- 
tives better than the hardier saprophytic forms. 

Chief preservatives used. The preservatives most commonly 

1 Brit. Med. Jour. 1900, 11. August i8th. 

2 Brit. Med. Jour. 1910, i. April loth, p. 928. 
" Public Health, 1910, xxiii. p. 438. 



206 CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES [CH. 

employed, in addition to such long-established substances as 
common salt, sugar, vinegar and nitre, are boric acid and its 
compounds, salicylic acid and salicylates, sulphurous acid 
and sulphites, formaldehyde, benzoic acid and benzoates, 
fluorides and hydrogen peroxide. A number of others have 
been introduced from time to time but are rarely used. Not 
infrequently two or more preservatives are used together. 
These preservatives are frequently sold under fancy names, 
either as single substances or as mixtures of two or more 
of them. 

Evidence of harmfulness. For details of individual cases of 
poisoning and the experimental evidence connecting these 
preservatives with ill health or actual poisoning the reader 
is referred to the Report of- the Departmental Committee on 
Preservatives and Colouring Matters (1909), Thresh and 
Porter's book, Preservatives in Food, 1906, and the individual 
papers, as the whole of the evidence cannot be summarised 
in the space available and any selection of evidence would 
lead to partial and possibly biased presentation. It is only 
proposed to discuss the broad general principles. 

Most of these substances are admittedly poisonous when 
administered in large doses and therefore the controversy over 
their harmfulness ranges over the question of their administra- 
tion in small doses. For example, for boric acid and its com- 
pounds, there are a good many definite recorded cases of 
poisoning from their use in large amounts. While therefore 
the direct harmfulness of these substances in small or 
minimal doses may be difficult to establish, objectors to their 
use are on firm ground when they take the line that the use 
of these chemicals should be restricted and controlled in 
order to prevent the different vendors or manufacturers, 
through whose hands the food passes, from separately and 
severally dosing these foodstuffs, with the possibility that 
the food as consumed may contain a poisonous dose. 

Since it is admitted that small quantities only are necessary 
for food preservation purposes while large quantities are 
undoubtedly harmful, the position of those who demand 
that some limits as to amounts present should be imposed is 
really unassailable. Those who handle these preservatives 



XIl] CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 207 

are for the most part ignorant of their possibly harmful 
character, they are not trained to appreciate the significance 
and niceties of small chemical additions and the need for 
accuracy, so that in practice it is common to find chemical 
preservatives present far in excess of any quantity necessary 
to prevent bacterial decomposition^. 

The common practice of selling these food preservatives 
under fancy names is a direct inducement to irregularity and 
excess of dosage, for those using them frequently have no 
idea what substances they are using or their strength, and 
rely blindly upon the directions given on the labels. 

A further fact of general applicability is that most of 
these substances are foreign to the animal body and are 
excreted as foreign substances by the kidneys. This organ 
is particularly sensitive to chemical substances so secreted, 
and it is therefore a reasonable supposition that their elimina- 
tion may be locally harmful, particularly to those with 
defective or damaged kidneys. It is this point which has 
induced some authorities to favour the use only of benzoic 
acid and benzoates as preservatives since they combine with 
glycocol and are excreted in the form of hippuric acid, a 
normal and harmless constituent of the urine. As Rosenau'-^ 
puts it," we know that the human organism is prepared to take 
care and render harmless a certain amount of benzoic acid, 
we know that this mechanism is a very efficient one and is 
capable of taking care of relatively large amounts of benzoic 
acid." 

On the other hand the special German Commission in 
1913 found that the administration of benzoic acid in re- 
peated and relatively large doses caused in dogs poisonous 
symptoms, and, if continued, death. To get this result, 
however, as much as 0-4 grm. per pound of body weight had 
to be administered. 

1 For example, in a sample of brawn the writer found as much as 96 
grains per pound of boric acid, and when the brawn-maker was invited to 
explain why he used a quantity so vastly in excess of the need he stated 
that he thought it was rather hot weather so took a small handful and 
mixed it in with the batch. He evidently thought it could be used like 
common salt. 

2 Preventive Medicine and Hygiene, 191 3. 



208 CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES [CH. 

The Departmental Committee on Preservatives and 
Colouring Matters (1909) did not arrive at definite opinions 
in regard to the harmfulness of most of the preservatives 
they considered, as the evidence laid before them was in 
some respects conflicting, in many cases partial and incom- 
plete, while no evidence was forthcoming as regards certain 
points. The Committee by no means condemned the total use 
of all preservatives but recommended restriction in their use. 

The views of this Committee largely influence the practice 
in this country, so it is important to state some of them and 
the following may be quoted as examples : 

Sulphites. "Concerning the physiological effects of the 
sulphites, a preservative often used by butchers, poultry 
dealers and brewers, there has been no evidence laid before 
this Committee. It appears, however, that when sulphurous 
acid or its salts are added to organic compounds, such as 
beer or butcher's meat, some of it is at once oxidized to 
sulphate, which may be regarded at any rate in the amount 
present as indifferent ; some attaches itself chemically to 
certain constituents of the food in question and the compound 
formed is also innocuous; a third portion remains as sulphur- 
ous acid, and it is this portion alone which is of permanent 
efficacy as an antiseptic. Concerning the effect of this 
moiety upon the consumer pharmacologists do not seem 
agreed, and further investigation is required before the 
sulphites can be regarded as either harmful or harmless." 

As regards this preservative it may however be remarked 
that in 1898 the Imperial German Board of Health forbade 
the use of sodium sulphite in food on account of its harmful- 
ness, while its use is also prohibited in America by the 
Federal Pure Food Act of 1906. 

Boron preservatives. "After very carefully weighing the 
evidence we have come to the conclusion that as regards 
the trade in fresh and cured meat, fish, butter, margarine 
and other food substances, in the consumption of which but 
small quantities of the antiseptic are taken into the system, 
there exists no sufficient reason for interfering to prevent 
the use of boron preservatives." As regards milk they 
definitely pronounced against their use. 



XII] CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 209 

Copper sulphate. This substance is chiefly used in the 
greening of vegetables. The Departmental Committee re- 
marks "It is highly undesirable that what is admittedly a 
poisonous substance should be used, even to the smallest 
extent, in connection with such food as may be consumed in 
considerable quantity. Direct proof that vegetables con- 
taining copper are injurious to the consumer is from the very 
nature of the case difficult to obtain, and we must admit 
that we have not succeeded in obtaining it. There is evidence 
pointing to the conclusion that the copper, when added to 
the vegetables, forms a compound which is not easily 
soluble in the human economy. There is, however, evidence 
of a contrary character, and it is not clear to us that the 
whole of the copper added becomes, or remains, insoluble 
under all conditions. Be this as it may, recent events have 
so incontestably demonstrated the serious and widespread 
mischief which may result from the consumption of food 
and drink, other than sweetmeats, containing even minimal 
quantities of poisonous metallic substances, that we are 
strongly of opinion that such poisonous substances should 
be rigorously excluded." As regards the amounts of copper 
sulphate actually found Dearden^ gives particulars of twenty- 
three samples of vegetables analysed at Manchester contain- 
ing amounts varying from 0-5 to 6 grains of crystallized 
copper sulphate per pound. 

A valuable series of studies upon the influence of vege- 
tables greened with copper salts on the health of man are 
contained in the Report of the Referee Board of Consulting 
Scientific Experts appointed by the U.S.A. Department of 
Agriculture 2. 

This report contains a detailed account of the experi- 
mental investigations conducted upon both man and animals. 
The general conclusions of the Referee Board are as follows : 

" {a) Copper salts used in the colouring of vegetables as 
in commercial practice cannot be said to reduce, or lower, 
or injuriously affect the quality or strength of such vegetables, 
as far as the food value is concerned." 

^ Public Health, 1910, xxiii. p. 426. 

2 17.5. Dept. of Agric. 1913, Report No. 97. 

S.F.P. T4 



210 CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES [CH. 

" {b) Copper salts used in the greening of vegetables may 
have the effect of concealing inferiority, inasmuch as the 
bright green colour imparted to the vegetables simulates a 
state of freshness they may not have possessed before treat- 
ment." 

" (c) In attempting to define a large daily quantity of 
copper, regard must be had to the maximum amount of 
greened vegetables which might be consumed daily. A daily 
dose of 100 grams of coppered peas or beans, which are the 
most highly coloured vegetables in the market, would not 
ordinarily contain more than loo to 150 milligrams of copper. 
Such a bulk of greened vegetables is so large, however, that 
it would hardly be chosen as a part of a diet for many days 
in succession. Any amount of copper above 150 milligrams 
daily may therefore be considered excessive in practice. A 
small quantity is that amount which, in the ordinary use 
of vegetables, may be consumed over longer periods. From 
this point of view, 10 to 12 milligrams of copper may be 
regarded as the upper limit of a small quantity." 

" It appears from our investigations that in certain direc- 
tions even such small quantities of copper may have a 
deleterious action and must be considered injurious to 
health." 

Other colouring matters in food. While in the past mineral 
matters definitely poisonous, such as lead chromate or 
arsenic compounds, have been used the colouring matters 
now employed are chiefly vegetable dyes and some aniline 
dyes which, so far as is known, have never caused food 
poisoning or disturbance. The Departmental Committee 
remarks "In regard to the colouring matters of modern 
origin, while we are of opinion that articles of food are very 
much preferable in their natural colours, we are unable to 
deduce from the evidence received that any injurious results 
have been traced to their consumption." 

These colouring matters are a waste of material and cannot 
be considered necessary or desirable, while there is the possi- 
bility of their use in certain cases to mask the quality of 
food and to make saleable food which otherwise would be 
rejected as unfit for consumption or of inferior quality. 



XIl] CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 211 

The actual Recommendations of this Departmental Com- 
mittee were as follows: 

"(a) That the use of formaldehyde or formalin, or pre- 
parations thereof, in foods or drinks be absolutely prohibited 
and that salicylic acid be not used in greater proportion 
than I grain per pint in liquid food and i grain per pound 
in solid food. Its presence in all cases to be declared. 

"(b) That the use of any preservative or colouring matter 
whatever in milk offered for sale in the United Kingdom be 
constituted an offence under the Sale of Food and Drugs 
Acts. 

" (c) That the only preservative which it shall be lawful to 
use in cream be boric acid or mixtures of boric acid and 
borax, and in amount not exceeding 0-25 per cent, expressed 
as boric acid. The amount of such preservative to be notified 
by a label upon the vessel. 

"(d) That the only preservative to be used in butter and 
margarine be boric acid or mixtures of boric acid and borax, 
to be used in proportions not exceeding 0-5 per cent, ex- 
pressed as boric acid. 

"(e) That in the case of all dietetic preparations intended 
for the use of invalids or infants chemical preservatives of 
all kinds be prohibited. 

" (/ ) That the use of copper salts in the so-called greening 
of preserved food be prohibited. 

"(g) That means be provided, either by the establishment 
of a separate Court of Reference or by the imposition of 
more direct obligation on the Local Government Board, to 
exercise supervision over the use of preservatives and 
colouring matters in foods, and to prepare schedules of such 
as may be considered inimical to the public health." 

There is general agreement amongst those entitled to 
hold an opinion in regard to conclusions (a), (b) and (e), 
while (c), (d) and (/) have a solid but not united body of 
scientific opinion behind them. 

It is obvious that these Recommendations do not cover the 
ground but, while dealing with specific points, leave the use 
of preservatives in most substances still an open one. They 
do not recommend the compulsory recording of the presence 

14—2 



212 CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES [CH. 

of preservatives, do not state which preservatives may be 
used, or in what amounts, do not prohibit the sale of pre- 
servatives under fancy names. Even these Recommenda- 
tions have not been made into laws. 

It is important to realize the present inchoate condition 
of affairs in this country and that it is an extremely unsatis- 
factory one for all concerned, i.e. the general public, the food 
manufacturer and food vendor and the Local Authorities 
who have to administer the law. 

The general public are prejudiced by, all unwittingly, 
being obliged to consume a considerable proportion of their 
food mixed with chemicals, the presence of which is unknown 
to the individual consumer and which many experts pro- 
nounce to be injurious. The consumer is given no oppor- 
tunity to decline to buy such foods since the law does not 
require (except for cream) either their presence or their 
amount to be disclosed. He pays rates and taxes to be pro- 
tected from injurious food, amongst other things, and he 
has no security that he gets what he pays for. 

The food manufacturers and food vendors are in a position 
nearly as unsatisfactory. They do not know what steps they 
may take and what they may not do, to chemically preserve 
their commodities. A high standard of scrupulousness and 
regard for the possibly injurious action of preservatives may 
prejudice their business activities compared with trade 
rivals and competitors who lack their scruples, since the 
latter by a plentiful use of preservatives may avoid loss from 
damaged goods or the expenses of strict cleanliness in manu- 
facture or storage. They are also subjected to inequalities of 
treatment, since in one area determined activity in dealing 
wdth preservatives may characterise the Local Authority, 
with consequent heavy legal expenses and burdensome 
litigation, while in another area the Local Authority regards 
the subject with complacency and no trouble is made. 

Local Authorities and their officers are in an even more 
difficult position. Each case (with a few exceptions) in which 
preservatives are found has to be taken "on its merits." 
Costly legal machinery has to be evoked and each Local 
Authority has to be prepared (for they may not combine 



XII] CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 213 

and pool legal actions), if they are attacking an industry 
which is united and provided with a strong financial backing, 
to take its case from Court to Court with ever-increasing ex- 
pense to the rate-payer until an unchallengeable decision is 
given. For no branch of law do precedents so little govern 
the decisions, since conditions vary so widely in different 
cases, so there is small guarantee that in important cases 
decisions in the first Courts will be accepted as final. 

That this is no fancy picture is shown by the very numerous 
instances in which cases are taken to the higher Courts and 
by the many instances in which the proceedings revolve 
round an unseemly wrangle between expert witnesses on 
the two sides repeating all the stock arguments and adducing 
the old experiments. 

The Central Authority meanwhile largely repudiates all 
responsibility. It does not say which, if any, preservatives 
may be used or under what conditions or require their 
presence to be recorded. It appointed it is true a Depart- 
mental Committee, but it has not even legalised the few 
rather emasculated recommendations of that Committee. 
Its defenders may rejoin that the harmfulness of most of the 
preservatives used was not proved in the evidence taken by 
that Departmental Committee and that considerable di- 
vergence of opinion and of experimental results were mani- 
fested. 

In the writer's opinion this attitude cannot be accepted as 
a sufficient or a satisfactory defence. The problem is difficult 
but not insoluble and it is for the State to take steps to 
solve it. It is the duty of the State, as represented by the Con- 
trolling Department, to make up its mind as to preservatives in 
food, and to embody it in the necessary legal form. Better 
to make it up wrongly in minor details than not to make it 
up at all. Cheaper to pay for the necessary investigations 
than to continue to squander money in fighting individual 
cases through the Courts. All this apart from the risk of 
serious injury to health from unregulated food dosing with 
chemicals. 

If we had, as we have not at present, a proper Court of 
Scientific (Technical and Administrative) Experts to act as 



214 CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES [CH. XII 

an advisory tribunal to a Ministry of Health it should be 
perfectly feasible to enact suitable regulations such as the 
following : 

1. That no preservatives at all be permitted to be added 
to food, apart from salt, sugar and other stated substances, 
unless the fact is adequately stated on the label describing 
the food. 

2. That the only preservatives which may be used are 
those contained in a government schedule, liable to revision 
from time to time. 

3. That no preservatives may be sold for the preserva- 
tion of food under fancy names and all must be vended in 
packages labelled with their full composition. 

4. That the amounts of preservatives permitted to be 
added must not exceed in different articles the maximum 
amounts published in a schedule to be revised from time to 
time. 

It is obvious that regulations of this nature imply a 
Government Department which is active not passive, posi- 
tive not negative. They need not imply that sanctioned pre- 
servatives are harmless, merely that the evidence as to 
their injurious properties is insufficient to warrant their 
being excluded for the present. 

The suggestion frequently advanced that the use of certain 
named preservatives should be prohibited by enactment is 
really rather a futile one, since the trade chemist will always 
be able to find new preservatives. The attitude should be 
that all must be prohibited until sanctioned and the State, 
as represented by its Health Ministry, should be courageous 
enough to make up its mind which to sanction, while being 
at the same time, on the one hand, always ready to with- 
draw its consent if the accumulated scientific data, which 
should be available and utihsed as the result of that sanction, 
proves that any preservative is prejudicial, and on the other 
ready to admit the use of others which scientific evidence 
shows to be without detriment. 



CHAPTER XIII 

THE PREVENTION OF FOOD POISONING OUTBREAKS 

It has been shown in preceding chapters that while the 
majority of outbreaks of food infection and food poisoning 
are bacterial in origin a proportion are due to poisoning 
with chemical substances not derived from bacteria, such as 
arsenic or chemicals added to preserve food. Food poisoning 
from such wilful chemical additions or accidental contamina- 
tion has been dealt with in Chapters XI and XII. Their pre- 
vention is largely a matter of more definite control over the 
addition of these substances by means of legal enactments 
restricting their wilful addition and of regulations exacting 
more care on the part of manufacturers as to the purity of 
substances to be added to articles to be used for human 
food. The need for such regulations and the form they 
should take has been sufficiently indicated in those chapters 
and further detailed consideration is not required. 

The general problem of bacterial diseases transmitted by 
food considered in Chapter II is a very wide one and a com- 
plete discussion of methods of prevention would involve 
consideration of the question of the spread of all infectious 
diseases capable of being transmitted by food. These 
problems although introduced to complete the subject are 
really outside the scope of what is understood by food 
poisoning outbreaks. 

The present chapter will therefore be confined to a dis- 
cussion of the measures which are required, or which may 
be employed, to prevent the spread of bacterial food infec- 
tions and food poisonings using these terms in the narrower 
limits which are usually applied to them in practical usage. 
The earlier chapters have shown that these conditions form 
a very definite group of outbreaks which are probably fairly 



2l6 PREVENTION OF FOOD POISONING [CH. 

common and it is of great importance to consider how far it 
is possible to limit their occurrence. 

While recent bacteriological investigations have enor- 
mously widened our knowledge as to food poisoning and the 
distribution of the bacilli concerned, this increased know- 
ledge has shown that the problem of prevention is far more 
difficult than was at one time supposed to be the case. In 
this it is comparable to the added administrative difficulties 
which have been caused by our increased knowledge as to 
the bacteriology and epidemiology of the acute infectious 
diseases. 

It must be admitted that the prevention of food poisoning 
outbreaks is one of extreme difficulty. 

If the original conception of food poisoning as due to the 
ingestion of food in a state of incipient decomposition had 
proved to be correct, prevention would have been a com- 
paratively simple matter, resolving itself into steps to prevent 
this incipient decomposition and a careful instruction of the 
public as to the evil effects of tainted meat. 

If the hypothesis which followed it — that these outbreaks 
were due to the consumption of the meat of animals suffering 
from certain specified diseases — had been shown to embrace 
the whole truth as to food poisoning, again preventive 
measures would not have been beyond satisfactory devising, 
consisting essentially as they would have done in a more 
rigid meat supervision and adequate punishment of those 
who neglected the statutory requirements as to traffic in 
such diseased food. 

It has, however, been shown in the earlier sections that 
the first hypothesis is not in accord with modern knowledge, 
while the second is only a part of the truth. 

From the review of existing knowledge given in the fore- 
going sections it is clear that, from the preventive stand- 
point, food poisoning cases must be looked upon as forming 
two groups : 

(a) Those due to the consumption ot meat derived from 
diseased animals. An intra-vitam infection with food poison- 
ing bacilli, in most cases members of the Gaertner group, 
but probably occasionally with other varieties of bacteria. 



. 



XIIl] PREVENTION OF FOOD POISONING 217 

{b) Those due to the contamination of healthy meat or 
other food with food poisoning baciUi derived from sources 
other than the food itself. 

It is probable that the second group is considerably larger 
than the first. 

The following preventive measures, general or direct, 
require careful consideration. 

I. More exact knowledge of the subject amongst 
the medical profession generally. 

It is evident that the knowledge of many general practi- 
tioners on this subject is antiquated and inaccurate. This is 
clear from a study of the medical evidence given at inquests 
upon cases of food poisoning. Death is usually ascribed to 
"ptomaine poisoning," the medical man explaining that 
under more or less unknown conditions food sometimes de- 
composes in the intestine with the formation of ptomaines 
which cause the symptoms. Surprise is frequently expressed 
that the meat showed no signs of being tainted. The term 
"ptomaine poisoning" given by the medical man as a full 
satisfactory and adequate explanation is accepted by the 
coroner and his jury as the whole of the matter and no 
further inquiry is deemed to be needed. It is, to say the least, 
unsatisfactory that there should be frequently such a dis- 
crepancy between medical evidence and readily ascertainable 
facts as to the causation of these cases. This has occurred, 
for example, in two outbreaks in which the writer had no 
difficulty in demonstrating that they were due to infection 
by Gaertner group bacilli. This public expression of views 
which are demonstrably wrong is not only damaging to the 
prestige of the medical profession as a scientific body but 
does more, it stifles inquiry and stops the elucidation of the 
truth. 

The general medical and even public health textbooks are 
undoubtedly partly to blame as they still propound and 
accept theories of food poisoning which are inaccurate and 
retain a nomenclature which is misleading. 



2l8 PREVENTION OF FOOD POISONING [CH. 

2. Detailed investigation of all food poisoning 
outbreaks. 

It has been pointed out in earlier chapters that there are 
many lacunae in our knowledge as to the causes and channels 
of infection in food poisoning outbreaks. It must be accepted 
that many of these gaps would not exist if even that small 
proportion to the whole of outbreaks which are officially recog- 
nized were adequately investigated. The writer is particu- 
larly alive to this point as he has had the opportunity of 
studying the official reports of many scores of outbreaks 
recorded in this country. In a very large proportion of them 
scarcely anything was attempted in the direction of investi- 
gating the precise causation of the condition and the path 
of infection. In outbreak after outbreak all that was re- 
corded was the details of the number of cases, the activities 
of the medical officer in putting a stop to it, a symposium as 
to the symptoms, a brief note as to the kind of food acting 
as the vehicle of spread, a note of surprise that the food 
appeared good, sometimes a description of the insanitary 
conditions which surrounded its preparation, but as regards 
investigations as to causation complete silence. 

If the need for inquiry as to the method and paths of 
infection had been realized, if the realization had been 
followed by accurate investigation, it cannot be doubted 
that our knowledge of the means of prevention of this con- 
dition would have been immensely advanced. 

Apart from these measures which really turn upon the 
neglect of this subject by the profession generally there are 
some definite preventive measures which at least merit 
consideration. 

3. Meat inspection at the time of slaughter. 

If an adequate and thorough system of meat inspection 
at the place of slaughter was in vogue in this country it 
would enable meat derived from animals suffering from 
infection with Gaertner group bacilli to be detected in many 
cases, and a certain number of food poisoning outbreaks 
would in this way be prevented. 



XIII] PREVENTION OF FOOD POISONING 219 

Even with an adequate system, however, meat from such 
animals would continue to be passed in a number of instances, 
as in some cases the disease (enteritis, etc.) from which the 
animal was suffering might be overlooked. In several of the 
recorded continental outbreaks the meat was passed by the 
veterinary meat inspector, although it was subsequently 
ascertained that small lesions were present which were prob- 
ably associated with the presence of the Gaertner group 
bacillus causing the outbreak. 

There is indeed sometimes considerable difficulty in ascer- 
taining how far Gaertner bacilli are likely to be present in 
some of the diseased conditions in animals associated with 
food poisoning. Bacteriological facilities should certainly be 
available to clear up doubtful cases but it is obviously 
impracticable to utilise bacteriology for the routine examina- 
tion of all cases. 

It may be concluded that while adequate supervision of 
meat at the time of slaughter will prevent some outbreaks 
it will not prevent more than a minority of them. 

4. Separation of the slaughterhouse from food 
preparing places. 

A careful study of the details of individual outbreaks as 
well as of theoretical considerations, shows that this is a 
most important preventive measure. In addition to the 
actual slaughtering, secondary procedures are frequently 
carried out in the slaughterhouse. The guts of pigs and other 
animals are not infrequently cleaned and washed in the 
slaughterhouse and then put in salt solution and used for 
sausage-casings. Brawn is also sometimes made and is fre- 
quently set to cool in the slaughterhouse. 

From personal observations the writer finds that it is not 
at all uncommon for sausages to be made in the slaughter- 
house and for the vessels containing the pickhng fluid and 
meat in course of salting to be kept in the slaughterhouse. 
In none of the bye-laws which he has seen has there been 
any clause prohibiting such practices, nor are they prohibited 
in the model bye-laws. 

This is a most important matter. It is evident that animals 



220 PREVENTION OF FOOD POISONING [CH. 

may recover from Gaertner infections, either completely or 
sufficiently for their carcases to be passed as satisfactory by 
the butcher and yet such animals may harbour living virulent 
bacilli of this group in the spleen or other organs or in the 
intestinal contents. If in the same slaughterhouse prepared 
foods are made or stored, infection of these foods is invited, 
and undoubtedly in this way a number of food poisoning 
outbreaks have originated. 

5. Enforcement of a higher standard of cleanliness 
in premises where made-up meat foods are prepared. 

The most striking fact which emerges from the study of 
any series of meat poisoning outbreaks is the very large 
number of cases in which the vehicle of infection has been 
brawn, meat pies, sausages or other form of made-up meat. 
Investigation of the condition of the premises and the actual 
procedures practised has almost invariably shown that, 
speaking generally, cleanliness was not practised in the 
preparation of these materials nor were the premises of such 
a kind as w^ould enable cleanliness and avoidance of con- 
tamination to be secured. Definite opportunities for excretal 
contamination of the food, during preparation or subse- 
quently, were usually present. 

Existing powers with regard to foodstuffs urgently need 
revision in many directions, but in nothing do they require 
strengthening more than in connection with the preparation 
of made-up meat foods. 

Take, for example, a vSubstance like brawn. In making it 
its constituents are heated so that competing bacilli are 
largely eliminated. When finished it constitutes a most 
favourable nutrient material for bacilli, with abundance of 
jelly, etc. This culture medium is set to cool, and usually 
cools slowly, so that over many hours it is maintained at 
temperatures which greatly favour bacterial multiplication. 
Frequently in practice the brawn is set to cool in places 
which necessitate its bacterial contamination, and sometimes 
it is put in places, such as slaughterhouses, were specific 
dangerous bacterial contamination is likely to occur. The 
brawn maker can do this quite unchecked by the supervision 



XIIl] PREVENTION OF FOOD POISONING 221- 

of the Local Sanitary Authority. He has neither to license 
nor to register his premises or himself and is not subject to 
any supervision by the Local Authority, apart from their 
general powers in regard to food inspection. 

The anomaly of the existing legal position is apparent if 
these non-existent powers are compared with the compara- 
tive stringent regulations governing the preparation of bread 
and its supervision. Bread is a substance which is a quite 
unimportant source of bacterial infection and the amount 
which does occur (i.e. from dirty handling of loaves) is largely 
independent of the supervision exercised. As potential 
vehicles for the spread of disease made foods are vastly more 
important than bread. 

A proper system of bye-laws and licensing of all premises 
upon which made-up meat foods are prepared are required 
and would be of material importance in limiting food poison- 
ing outbreaks. 

6. The limitation of diseases in animals caused by 
bacilli of the Gaertner group. 

It has been shown in Chapter VI (including Addendum II) 
that there are many pathological conditions in animals due 
to infection with bacilli of the Gaertner group or in which 
these organisms are present as secondary invaders. In 
Chapter X it was explained that the hypothesis which best 
accounts for the causation of the majority of outbreaks is 
that the bacilli are derived from animals which are either at 
the time suffering from disease due to Gaertner group bacilli 
or acting as carriers of these bacilli. 

Looking beyond the immediate steps required to prevent 
the infection of food for human consumption, it follows as 
an important practical inference that any steps which can 
be taken to limit the prevalence of these diseases in animals 
will diminish the chances of specific infection of human food 
and so will tend to lessen the number of food poisoning out- 
breaks. 

Such a limitation of the amount of animal Gaertner disease 
is a difficult matter to secure but is not beyond the range 



222 PREVENTION OF FOOD POISONING [CH. 

of practicability. Combined veterinary and bacteriological 
investigation should be made as to the extent to which 
Gaertner group diseases in animals occur in this country 
and how far the bacilli persist in a virulent condition in 
animals which have recovered from acute attacks. The data 
mentioned in Chapter X make it probable that in certain 
cases they may persist for considerable periods. 

In this connection it may be doubted how far it is wise, 
or indeed justifiable, to distribute broadcast without any 
check or supervision innumerable Gaertner group bacilli in 
the form of the various rat and mice viruses, for the purpose 
of destroying these rodents. These bacilli differ in no particu- 
lar except virulence from the Gaertner group bacilli associ- 
ated with food poisoning outbreaks, and while it is advanced 
that they are not pathogenic to man (and numerous instances 
of their free use without harm favour this contention), there 
are many instances in which cases or groups of cases of ill- 
ness in man have been attributed to infection from these 
viruses. 

One prominent characteristic of the Gaertner group of 
organisms is their varying virulence, and we are not in a 
position to negative the possibility that strains, originally 
non-virulent to man, may, by single or repeated passage 
through rats or mice, acquire a virulence sufficient to enable 
them to infect man, either directly or indirectly, by causing 
disease in the animals used for human consumption. 

The danger of contamination of food by excreta of rats 
has been dealt with in Chapter X, p. 176. 

7. Steps to obtain official cognisance of food 
poisoning outbreaks. 

There is not the slightest doubt that a very large number 
of cases, and even considerable outbreaks, of food poisoning 
and food infection pass unrecognised by the official authori- 
ties, and remain unrecorded, uninvestigated and sometimes 
unrecognised. 

As illustrating how slender the chances may be of such 
cases coming to light the outbreak at Bristol in 1909 (quoted 



XIIlJ PREVENTION OF FOOD POISONING 223 

by the writer in his Report to the Local Government Board) 
may be mentioned. 

No less than fifty-four known cases are recorded, but all 
of them were ill four days before it came to the notice of 
the health authorities. This information was purely for- 
tuitous, as it was only obtained through one of the office' 
staff reporting that his wife and neighbours were all suffering. 
It is reasonably certain that if an employee had not been 
affected the Health Department would have known nothing 
about it. 

If adequate measures are to be taken to prevent the fre- 
quent occurrence of food poisoning outbreaks, it is essential 
that all outbreaks, however small, should be brought to the 
knowledge of the medical officer of health and be thoroughly 
studied by him, with the assistance at an early stage of a 
bacteriologist. The excellent memorandum of the Local 
Government Board dated September, 191 1, on the investi- 
gation of outbreaks of illness suspected to be due to food 
poisoning, indicates the lines on which such inquiries should 
be conducted and has served a valuable purpose in stimu- 
lating interest and insuring the investigation of many out- 
breaks brought to the notice of the medical officer of health. 

A further question is how is this official cognizance to be 
obtained. It might be suggested that this group of cases 
should be added to the list of diseases which have to be 
notified by medical men to the medical officer of health. 
There are, however, considerable objections to this course, 
such as the fact that a medical man is not consulted in all 
cases and that the obscurities of definition as to what is 
included in the term would in practice lead to difficulties. 
All kinds of trivial cases might have to be investigated. It 
is, however, highly desirable that more co-operation between 
medical practioners and medical officers of health should 
obtain as regards the unofficial notification and investigation 
of such cases. This would be facilitated if the services of a 
bacteriologist were always available free of charge to medical 
practitioners, through the medical officer of health, to 
examine material from possible or actual cases. 

More could also be done by the education of the public, 



224 PREVENTION OF FOOD POISONING [CH. XIII 

inducing them to look more to their Health Department for 
advice and help. The average citizen looks upon the sanitary 
service for which he pays as a penal and detective organiza- 
tion of narrow scope rather than as an advisory body with 
extensive and wide functions. Usually when food poisoning 
cases have resulted the survivors and their relations are con- 
vinced that someone is very much to blame and the target 
of their animosity is, as a rule, the food vendor. It should 
be equally natural for them also to take the matter to their 
Health Department for explanation and advice. In this 
way many outbreaks would come to light and the appropriate 
steps be taken to limit and study them. 



CHAPTER XIV 

METHODS OF INVESTIGATION OF FOOD POISONING 
OUTBREAKS 

It will be evident from preceding chapters that outbreaks 
of food poisoning may be of different kinds and that the 
exact methods of investigation required will vary according 
to the nature of the outbreak. Outbreaks of infectious dis- 
eases (such as typhoid fever) spread by food, although dis- 
cussed in Chapter II to complete the subject, do not really 
come under the definition, as ordinarily understood, of 
attacks of food poisoning and need not be further considered 
in this chapter. The interesting cases of food idiosyncrasy 
are obvious from their nature and do not give rise to out- 
breaks. The cases which have to be considered group them- 
selves under attacks of poisoning or gastro-intestinal disease 
from inherently poisonous foods, from foods bacterially con- 
taminated and from foods impregnated with poisonous 
chemical substances. Of these the group due to contamina- 
tion of the food by specific bacilli is by far the largest and 
most important. 

Considerable difficulty is often experienced in obtaining par- 
ticulars and in numerous instances even extensive outbreaks 
never come to the notice of the authorities. This difficulty 
is increased when the cases implicated are not confined to 
the area of the one local authority. This is particularly 
likely to occur when a food, such as cheese or tinned meat, 
is part of a large consignment only a portion of which is 
affected and in which the good and the infected samples 
have been distributed impartially over a wide area. It is 
particularly important in such cases that the Central Health 
Authority (the Ministry of Health) should be promptly con- 
sulted and its machinery utilized to make the necessary 
inquiries in other areas. The Central Authority is also in a 
position to make detailed inquiries and investigations at the 
s. F. p. 15 



226 METHODS OF INVESTIGATION [CH. 

place of origin of the food, a procedure which is frequently 
very difficult for the Local Authority to undertake. 

An outbreak in 1910 will serve as a good example of the 
necessity and value of thoroughly following up inquiries. 
The first cases were reported at St Helens in August, 1910, 
when thirty- two persons were attacked. In the same month 
there were twenty-one cases at Carlisle. Further investiga- 
tion by the Local Government Board elicited six cases in 
Gateshead in September and fifteen in November at Hessle. 
In every instance the outbreak was associated with the 
consumption of the meat from a six pound tin of a particular 
brand of corned beef, one can only being implicated in each 
instance. The short incubation period and other features 
showed that the outbreak was due to bacterial toxins, but 
their nature was not ascertained. It was evident that a cer- 
tain but unknown proportion of a particular consignment, a 
very large one of several million pounds of meat, was in- 
fected and the firm in question with considerable public spirit 
agreed to stop the sale of the whole of the consignment re- 
maining unsold. This satisfactory determination of a difficult 
problem would not have been reached without the active co- 
operation of the Central Department and the extensive 
inquiries which they instituted. 

The investigation of outbreaks is dealt with in a clear and 
valuable Report issued by the Local Government Board 
(191 1), which should be consulted by every medical officer 
of health. 

L Inquiries to be instituted. 

Information usually reaches the medical officer of health, 
or other member of the Health Department, in the form that 
a number of persons have suffered, within a short period, 
from gastro-intestinal symptoms with acute onset. This 
information may be received from one or more of the sufferers 
or their friends, from local medical practitioners, or, not at 
all infrequently, the first information is that a fatal case of 
this type of unknown origin has occurred. If anything like an 
adequate investigation is to be made it is imperative that 
the inquiries should be prompt and thorough. 



XIV] METHODS OF INVESTIGATION 227 

The following investigations are always necessary: 
{a) An attempt to secure a complete list of the cases. Ob- 
tained by 

(i) An inquiry at the homes of the known infected house- 
holds. This will probably lead to a special article of food, 
being suspected. 

(2) Inquiries of medical practitioners as to similar cases of 
illness, each of them serving as a fresh centre of investigation. 

(3) In certain cases it may be necessary to make house to 
house inquiries in the implicated area. 

(4) If the outbreak is extensive the medical officers of 
health of adjacent or implicated areas should be consulted. 

{b) Detailed particulars of the individual cases of illness. 
The details required are : 
Clinical features. 

Exact date and time the food was consumed. 
Quantity of affected food eaten by each person. 
Interval since eating and onset of symptoms. 

(c) Evidence as to the vehicle of infection. As a rule the 
initial inquiries have clearly demonstrated the particular 
food implicated, but if this is not the case the investigation 
would have to include an intimate study of the food consumed 
by the sufferers and by those in the same households who 
escaped. Sometimes the investigation has to be carried a 
stage further and the particular ingredients in a composite 
food studied (e.g. the meat and gravy separately in a meat 
pie) to ascertain the exact article infected. 

[d) A detailed study of the history of the implicated food. 
These must include 

Precise nature of the implicated food. 

If compounded the different ingredients and by whom 
mixed and prepared. 

The source of the food traced back to the animal itself 
(if of animal origin). Size of the consignment and fate of the 
rest of the batch. 

Particulars as to any treatment or preparation of the food 
before consumption and by whom carried out. 

How far the particular food was fully or inadequately 
cooked. 

15—2 



228 METHODS OF INVESTIGATION [CH. 

In every case the dates of purchase and of any domestic 
treatment should be ascertained and recorded. 

These inquiries must be instituted both in the homes of 
the sufferers and at the places of preparation. 

Details as to the extent to which the food presented ab- 
normalities of taste, smell or appearance, during its different 
stages are occasionally of importance. 

(e) Evidence as to the source of infection of the food. This is 
the part of the inquiry which is so habitually neglected but 
which merits the closest attention if progress is to be achieved 
in regard to the prevention of outbreaks. 

In some outbreaks — for example, those of a chemical 
nature — this may be a simple matter but in the more com- 
mon bacterial types most painstaking inquiries, associated 
with bacteriological examination, may be required to eluci- 
date the source and paths of infection. 

Points requiring particular attention are 

(i) The sanitary conditions under which the food was 
made, prepared for consumption, cooled or stored. In par- 
ticular any opportunities for specific contamination must be 
looked for, such as gut scraping or other association with 
animal excreta or contamination from rats and mice. 

(2) If the food is of animal origin (meat or milk) inquiries 
should be made as to evidence of healthiness or illness of the 
animals supplying, at the time of or before slaughter, or 
amongst others of the same herd. 

Note. The price at which sold may throw indirectly light 
upon this matter. 

(3) The possibility of the infection being from a human 
carrier. Evidence of illness amongst those who handled the 
food. This inquiry is greatly facilitated by bacteriological 
examinations. 

II. Collection of material. 

It is obviously of importance that this should be obtained 
at the earliest time possible after the onset of the outbreak. 
A full investigation will comprise the examinations set out 
below, but as frequently not all the material will be obtainable 
it is worth emphasising that a fairly complete elucidation of 



XIV] METHODS OF INVESTIGATION 229 

the cause of the outbreak may be obtainable when only 
comparatively slender material is available for examination. 

(A ) Nature of material to examine. 

(i) Portions of the actual food consumed. This is frequently 
unobtainable, particularly in limited outbreaks. Obviously 
much depends upon the interval between the onset and the 
inquiry. If food is sent for examination care should be taken 
to indicate if it is part of the same food as was actually 
consumed by sufferers or if merely a sample of food of 
similar origin. A good many of the blank results obtained 
undoubtedly have been due to the food sent being the latter 
and not actually infected food at all. 

If doubt exists as to which ingredient is implicated in a 
composite food, samples of the separate components should 
be obtained. 

(2) Materials from fatal cases. If available this is by far 
the most valuable material for investigation. The samples 
to be transmitted should be spleen, liver (part is sufficient), 
part of a bone containing bone marrow, heart blood in a 
sterile bottle or in the unopened heart, piece of small intestine 
(ligatured), stomach (ligatured) with unopened contents. 
Other organs such as the kidneys may be included but are 
not really necessary. 

(3) Materials from living cases. Samples of blood (from 
finger or ear) for agglutination tests should be collected ana 
transmitted in the ordinary way (in sealed glass pipettes) 
from as many cases as possible. These specimens should 
not be collected at the onset of the illness as specific agglu- 
tinins will hardly have had time to be produced. They are 
of particular value when other sources of material are not 
available, since they yield positive results in Gaertner infec- 
tions for a considerable period after the outbreak has sub- 
sided. 

If chemical or mushroom poisoning is suspected vomited 
materials should be sent for examination, if obtainable. 

Dejecta specimens are of value, particularly when there 
are no samples available from fatal cases. They are more 
difficult to examine and negative results are of little signifi- 
cance. They should be sent as fresh as possible. 



230 METHODS OF INVESTIGATION [CH. 

(4) Materials from infected animals. These are only re- 
quired in special cases and whether they are needed or not 
arises at a later stage out of the results of the preliminary 
investigations. 

They may include the examination of milk, blood, dejecta 
and discharges of different animals. 

A good example of the value of such examinations is 
given on p. 162 in connection with a milk spread outbreak. 

{B) Methods of transmission. 

The examinations required are almost invariably bacterio- 
logical and the most satisfactory plan is to arrange with the 
bacteriologist for him to send the sterile bottles, jars, pipettes, 
etc., required, so that the material may be transmitted with 
proper precautions and under suitable conditions. If samples 
are likely to be delayed in transit they should be sent in 
ice-boxes. 

Sometimes there is no time to communicate first with the 
bacteriologist and obtain outfits from him. In such cases 
the following note by Durham (1898) on an emergency out- 
fit may be useful : 

"Impromptu method of making a simple freezing apparatus. 
Take a moderately large tin, such as a biscuit tin, and a 
wooden box of sufiicient size to give three or four inches 
clear space in every direction when the tin is placed within it. 
Put a layer of sawdust three or four inches deep at the bot- 
tom; stand the tin upon this, and fill the surrounding space 
with sawdust also. The various organs, after being removed 
with as much cleanliness as possible, are each wrapped in a 
clean cloth, wetted (not wringing wet) with i :5oo.HgCl2, and 
further wrapped and sealed, each separately in a piece of 
gutta-percha tissue (most easily done with a trace of chloro- 
form) ; they are then put into one or more watertight tins 
(those i or J lb. tins in which some tobacco is sent out are 
admirable, they may be more securely closed by means of a 
paraffin candle and a warm poker). The tobacco tins are 
placed within the larger tin, together with pounded ice and 
common salt, in the proportion of 3 lbs. of ice to i lb. of 
salt. The lid is placed on the larger tin, and the wooden 
outer box filled up with sawdust. An apparatus which holds 



XI V] METHODS OF INVESTIGATION 23 1 

the above quantities of ice and salt will keep about J pint 
hard frozen for more than twenty-four hours. There can be no 
difficulty in obtaining these materials at a moment's notice." 

III. Laboratory investigations. 

The scientific and practical value of the investigation of 
very many outbreaks has been spoilt owing to the suspected 
food being sent for chemical examination under the domi- 
nance of the fallacious "ptomaine" hypothesis. Naturally 
the analyst finds no ptomaines and the examination of 
important material is wasted. Chemical examinations may 
be required in special caseS; but they are special cases and in 
all but a tiny minority of cases the material should be sent 
to a bacteriologist for examination. If the possibility of 
chemical poisoning has not been eliminated the bacteriologist 
should be asked to retain some of the material for subse- 
quent chemical analysis, and this can usually be done 
without detriment since most of the chemical substances 
possible as causes of food poisoning are stable bodies and 
will not decompose or spoil by being kept awhile in the 
ice chest. 

Bacteriological and pathological examinations. 

(a) Th3 suspected foodstuffs. The precise methods of 
examination will vary slightly with the nature of the food, 
but should be on the following lines : 

The physical appearance, smell and chemical reaction 
should be noted carefully. Any deviations from the natural 
appearance of normal food of the kind under examination 
should be recorded. Aerobic and anaerobic cultivations, 
feeding and inoculation tests may all have to be made. 

Cultural examinations. It is important to obtain a uniform 
and characteristic sample. This can be conveniently done 
by mixing up selected portions with sterile instruments 
and adding to sterile water in a stoppered bottle, mixing 
thoroughly. If a quantitative examination is to be made a 
definite quantity of food must be added to a definite quantity 
of water. A fairly complete examination would include 



232 METHODS OF INVESTIGATION [CH. 

examination for Gaertner group bacilli, proteus group bacilli, 
B. colt and allied organisms, and for anaerobic bacilli such as 
B. botulinus and the putrefactive anaerobes. 

The most reliable method, in the writer's opinion, to 
isolate Gaertner group bacilli is to brush some of the emul- 
sion directly over a series of lactose-salicin-saccharose neutral 
red bile salt agar (L.S.S.B.A.) and to add also some of the 
emulsion to dulcite malachite green broth tubes (for com- 
position of these and other media see Addendum VI). 
After twelve to eighteen hours incubation the latter, suit- 
ably diluted, is brushed over a few L.S.S.B.A. plates. This 
broth medium favours the growth of Gaertner group bacilli 
over the other intestinal bacteria. The addition of the 
salicin and saccharose eliminates those para-Gaertner organ- 
isms which ferment these substances. 

All the white colonies (at least on the primary plates) 
must be investigated. This is most rapidly done by agglu- 
tination tests with powerful B. enteritidis and B. aertrycke 
sera. For this preliminary sorting the most convenient plan 
is to use sera with a titre of not less than i : looo. A dilution 
of I : 100 is prepared of each of these two sera and a loopful 
of each is placed on a series of coverslips, one loopful of each 
in separate drops. The white colonies are all previously 
numbered. With a sterile platinum needle a trace of colony 
No. I is added to each of the two loopfuls on the one cover- 
glass. The latter is everted and fixed with vaseline over a 
hanging drop slide in the ordinary way and the colony 
number and time marked on the slide with a glass pencil. 
If the orientation of the two drops is kept the same through- 
out, the sera used need not be marked on the slide. The 
other colonies are similarly treated and in this way a large 
number of hanging drop preparations can be put up in a 
short time. When the serum dilution is only to about one- 
tenth of the titre as recommended a time interval of fifteen 
minutes at room temperature is long enough. The hanging 
drop preparations are examined microscopically and those 
showing no agglutination rejected. Those showing definite 
clumping with either serum are culturally worked out and 
accurate agglutination tests made. This procedure will very 



XIVl METHODS OF INVESTIGATION 233 

rapidly eliminate the great majority of colonies not of the 
Gaertner group, but it is important to remember that the 
reacting colonies cannot be accepted without further tests 
as Gaertner organisms. It is merely a rapid method of 
sorting out the colonies worth investigating. 

The cultural characters of the true Gaertner organisms 
are given in Chapter VI, but for the convenience of workers 
it may be said that perhaps the simplest and quickest plan 
is to inoculate each of the selected colonies into six media: 
i.e. gelatine slope, litmus milk, peptone water, dulcite litmus 
broth, glucose litmus broth, salicin + saccharose + lactose 
litmus broth (the last three in double tubes). The other two 
important fermentation tests with rafhnose and mannite 
need only be applied later to confirm. Motility and micro- 
scopic appearance must of course be ascertained, the gela- 
tine slope culture being convenient for this purpose. 

The agglutination tests must be taken to the limit of 
agglutination. In important cases it may be necessary to 
immunize a rabbit with the isolated strain before a definite 
opinion as to the sub-group is given. Absorption tests also 
may be required. 

The presence of B. coli group organisms in the food can 
be judged from the number of red colonies on the modified 
L.S.S.B.A. plates. 

B. proteus isolation. The writer has experimented ex- 
tensively with many different forms of media, with or with- 
out aniline dyes, for this purpose but has not up to the 
present obtained a medium which can be considered satis- 
factory. Two methods may be tried : 

(i) Direct plating of a suitably diluted emulsion of the 
medium over a series of 10 per cent, gelatine plates. Not 
less than three in series should be used as the extent of 
bacterial contam nation is usually very problematical. The 
plates, incubated at 21° C, are examined after twenty-four, 
thirty and forty-eight hours respectively for the fairly charac- 
teristic liquefying colonies of Proteus vulgaris and for the non- 
liquefying colonies ol Proteus zenkeri with their characteristic 
thread-like processes spreading through the medium. Possi- 
ble colonies should be sub-cultivated into broth, replated to 



234 METHODS OF INVESTIGATION [CH. 

ensure purity (a very necessary precaution) and worked out 
culturally. 

(ii) Method of Choukevitch (1911). A little of the material 
for examination is added to the lower part of a tube of 
sloped agar, great care being taken to inoculate only the 
very bottom of the medium. The tube is incubated for 
twenty-four to thirty-six hours. If B. proteus is present it is 
supposed to extend up to the upper part of the agar and be 
present there in pure culture. As a subsidiary method to 
determine if B. proteus (using the term for the group) is 
present the writer has found this method of value and some- 
times has been able to isolate organisms of this group by 
its means, when failure resulted with other methods. 

It may be mentioned that B. proteus organisms can also be 
isolated sometimes from lactose bile salt neutral red agar 
plates, these organisms growing as white circular colonies. 

The examination of the foodstuff for the ordinary anaerobes 
is not of much service, as if found their presence is of no 
significance. If the symptoms suggest botulism B. hotulinus 
may be specially looked for, while its absence can be more 
definitely ascertained by inoculation tests. 

If B. hotulinus is present the foodstuff will probably have 
a distinct butyric acid smell. If the subcutaneous injection 
of a watery extract of the suspected material into a rabbit 
fails to reproduce the characteristic symptoms of botulism 
in animals (see p. 152) it can be assumed that the toxins of 
B. hotulinus are absent and cultural tests are hardly neces- 
sary. 

The methods for the isolation of anaerobes have been 
materially improved during the last few years. For the 
isolation of B. hotulinus and other anaerobes the plate 
method of Wilson is useful, while the method of eliminating 
the oxygen by using palladium or platinum asbestos to 
combine it with hydrogen is very convenient. For an ex- 
cellent account of these more modern methods see Fildes 

(1917)- 

Since tke spores of B. hotulinus are not highly resistant 

the method of heating to 80° C. for ten to fifteen minutes to 

eliminate non-sporing forms should not be employed. A 



XIV] METHODS OF INVESTIGATION 235 

watery emulsion of the material for examination should be 
spread over glucose serum-agar plates grown anaerobically, 
while other portions of the emulsion are added to glucose 
meat broth tubes and incubated anaerobically for several 
days and then plated on glucose-agar. The temperature qf 
incubation should be 20-22° C. The characters of this 
bacillus are described in Chapter IX. 

(b) Material from human cases. The examination of 
material from autopsies is conducted in a similar manner 
but is usually much easier, the bacilli being frequently present 
in pure or nearly pure culture. Only a fewL.S.S.B.A. and other 
plates need to be inoculated from each organ. Frequently 
the presence of Gaertner group bacilli can be determined 
within twenty-four hours. 

The examination of the contents of the intestine or of 
excreta specimens is a more troublesome business and a 
considerable number of plates must be made, while enrich- 
ment methods should also be employed. The white colonies 
on the plates should be sorted out with the Gaertner group 
sera as recommended for the examination of the foodstuff. 
If the examination of the excreta is at all delayed, as is 
usually the case, Gaertner bacilli may be very scanty and 
hard to isolate. 

The testing of the agglutinative properties of the blood of 
actual or suspected cases is a very important part of the 
investigation, since, as already mentioned, even when no 
other material at all is available for examination it some- 
times is sufficient to determine accurately the cause of 
infection. 

The sera should be tested against stock cultures of all 
three strains of the Gaertner group, B. enteritidis, B. sui- 
pestifer (aertrycke) and B. paratyphosus B. Dilutions of i in 
30 and I in 100 may be conveniently employed as a routine. 
If positive then i : 300, i : 500, etc., should be tested, if 
necessary to the limit of agglutination. Some of the serum 
should be reserved, or fresh specimens taken, to test against 
any Gaertner group bacilli isolated from the food or from 
post mortem material. 

A pathological examination of the organs from fatal cases 



236 METHODS OF INVESTIGATION [CH. 

yield little or nothing of practical value and is not of much 
importance. 

(c) Material from affected animals. This will vary with the 
nature of the material to be examined, but will be on the 
same lines as material from human cases. 

In regard to testing the agglutinative properties of sera 
from animals it should be mentioned that caution is necessary 
in their interpretation, since quite healthy animals may give 
positive findings to a certain extent (see p. ^y). 

Chemical examination. 

(a) Examination for ptomaines. As explained this is rarely 
required but special circumstances may make it advisable 
to test for these bodies if only to demonstrate their absence. 
For this purpose Brieger's method as described in Dixon- 
Mann's Forensic Medicine (1908, p. 678) may be employed: 
"An alcoholic extract obtained from the organic matter 
which contains the ptomaine is precipitated with neutral 
lead acetate (in order to remove amorphous albuminoid and 
other inert matter), filtered, and the filtrate evaporated to a 
small bulk; the residue is dissolved in water through which 
HoS is passed until the lead is thrown down. After filtration 
the solution is evaporated to a syrup, which, when cold, is 
extracted with alcohol, and the filtered extract precipitated 
with an alcoholic solution of HgClg. Advantage is taken of 
the varying solubility of the double salts formed by ptomaines 
with mercuric chloride to effect their separation by treat- 
ment with boiling water. The solutions thus obtained are 
severally decomposed by HgS and, after removal of the 
mercurous sulphide, are evaporated down so as to cause the 
ptomaine salts to crystallise out. Further separation is 
accomplished by forming double salts of the ptomaines with 
PtCl^ and AuClg. During the various processes, especially 
in the early ones, the temperature should not exceed 40° C, 
nor should the solutions be allowed to acquire more than a 
feebly acid reaction." 

"As free bases ptomaines are mostly liquid; some are 
crystallisable ; some are volatile, others are not; they form 
salts more or less easily crystallisable. Like vegetable alka- 



XIV] METHODS OF INVESTIGATION 237 

loids, ptomaines are precipitated by most of the alkaloidal 
group-tests." 

Their toxicity should be tested by injection and feeding of 
animals (guinea-pigs, rabbits, kittens), while if necessary 
chemical tests for individual ptomaines may be employed 
(see Vaughan and Novy). 

{b) Examination for evidence of putrefactive changes. The 
chemical tests for early decomposition changes in meat 
foods mentioned in the textbooks are really useless as they 
are unreliable and only definite when the meat is obviously 
putrefactive by smell and appearance. The writer with 
Mr D. Wood has spent much time in investigating the 
practicability of other chemical tests but up to the present 
the results are not sufficiently advanced to be worth repro- 
ducing. 

(c) Examination for poisonous metals. The metals which 
may have to be looked for are set out in Chapter XI. Suit- 
able tests and methods of estimation will be found in Ana- 
lytical Textbooks. While fairly simple to detect their esti- 
mation is a matter of considerable experience and should be 
left to the expert chemist, and to describe the methods in 
detail would occupy space which is unnecessary, in view of 
the excellent available descriptions. 

[d) Examination for preservatives. As for (c) it is not pro- 
posed to give here the different tests and methods of esti- 
mation. The latter require considerable experience. 

It is important to remember that occasionally preserva- 
tives are present in amount sufficient to retard bacterial 
growth and so, if their presence is not suspected, give a 
false idea of bacterial purity. 

REFERENCES (including Addendum VI). 

Bierotte and Machida (1910). Miinch. med. Woch. lvii. 636. 

Gary (1916). Am. Journ. of Public Health, vi. 124. 

Ghoukevitch (191 1). Ann. de I' Inst Pasteur, xxv. 852. 

Gonradi (1909). Zeit. f. Fleisck- und Milch-hyg. ^41. 

Durham (1898). Brit. Med. Journ. 11. 1801. 

Fildes (1917). "Methods for cultivating the anaerobic bacteria," 

Special Report, No. 12, Medical Research Committee. 
Filenski (1915). Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesund. l. 13.3. 



238 



ADDENDUM VI 



[CH, 



Horn (1910). Zeit. f. Infeht. der Haustiere, viii. 424. 

Local Government Board. Memorandum on the investigation of out- 
breaks of illness suspected to be due to food poisoning, Septem- 
ber, 191 1. 

Metzner (19 10). TierdrztL Zentralh. 436. 

Miiller (1910). Centralb.f. Bakt. i Abt. Orig. lvi 277. 

Savage (1908). Journ. Roy. San. Inst. xxix. 366. 
(1918). Journ. of Hyg. xvii. 34. 

SJooten (1909). Centralb.f. Bakt. i Abt. Ref. xliii. 193. 

Vaughan and Novy (1903). Cellular Toxins. 

Weinzirl and Newton (1914)- Am. Journ. of Public Health, iv. 413. 

Zweifel (1911)- Centralb.f. Bakt. i Abt. Orig. lviii. 115. 

Zwick and Weichel (191 1). Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesund. xxviii. 327. 



ADDENDUM VI. 



I. DIFFERENTIATION OF THE TYPHOID-COLON GROUP. 

In the main this is based upon fermentation tests. The following arboreal 
statement may be convenient for reference ; 



o 



N oti-lactose ferinenters 

i 

O 



+ ^ 





' 5. 


p 


'i 


+1 






n 


f? 


(7 




n- S, B. dyseiiteriae 


1 — ' 1 


Morgans 


r n 


^ v 

rt s 


(Shiga) 


t. r. 


No. T 


p t. ET. 


0' 




i" i^i" 


bacillus 


a-3 ^3 


3 




c § c 




^S =S 


r n 
Proteus B. alkalige7tes 




i. ^i. 




1-3. ^3. 


zeftkeri (marked 




^ §-.^ 




^^ £i^ 


(typical alkalinity 




S a 




H i'^ 


gelatine in litmus 




5-' a! 


B. 


Sara- 5" 


colonies milk) 


v 


^ t 


typhosus A 






B. typhosus B. dysenteriae 










(Flexner&Y.) 












^^ 


i- 








^ c/: 


S m 








' r ' 1 


+s 


'+= 



^. proteus vulgaris 
and other organisms 






^. enteritidis 



Para-Gaertner 



Para- 
B. paratyphosus B bacilli. Some Gaertner 
B. aetrycke vel B. suipesti/er f^actUi 

suipestifer strains 

+ = fermentation with production of acid and gas. 
a = ,, ,, ,, acid only. 

— = no acid or gas production. 



XIV] ADDENDUM VI 239 

The most convenient substances to quickly differentiate the main 
groups are lactose, glucose, mannite and litmus milk. Lactose differentiates 
at once between the B. colt group (lactose fermenters) and the rest — the 
non-la,ctose fermenters 

Note. This statement does not mean that the tests given are sufficient to 
establish the identification of the types mentioned. Of course all the 
essential characters of the strain have to be determined. All that is intended 
to be shown is a convenient means of rapidly sorting out the organisms 
studied into their possible groups, leaving it for other and confirmatory 
tests to complete the diagnosis. There are probably, in addition, a con- 
siderable number of non-pathogenic and unnamed lactose fermenters which 
closely simulate some of the above types. 

II. THE BACTERIAL CONTENT OF ORDINARY MEAT 
FOODS. 
Many mistakes have been made by bacteriologists through an inadequate 
acquaintance with normal conditions and the presence of particular 
bacteria given an unwarranted significance owing to a failure to recognize 
that the conditions found were in no way special but were those found 
normally, or but quantitatively exaggerated, under ordinary practical 
conditions. This being the case it may be of value to append a few particu- 
lars as to actual findings in meat foods under ordinary conditions and 
quite unassociated with outbreaks of food poisoning or other evidence of 
harmful properties. 

A. Internal organs of food producing animals. The question as to how 
far these organs are sterile has been investigated by a number of workers, 
Conradi (1909) using a special enrichment method found bacteria on 
seventy- two occasions out of 162 organs from 150 healthy animals. Of 
these bacteria thirty were anaerobic, forty-two aerobic. The aerobic 
organisms included B. coli, B. lacfis aerogenes, streptococci, etc., while the 
anaerobes were chiefly of the butyric acid group. 

Bierotte and Machida (1910) employed a modified Conradi method and 
obtained very similar results. They examined fifty-four organs from 
eleven quite healthy animals and found bacilli in thirty-two. 

Zwick and Weichel (191 1) also found bacteria in the internal organs in 
a number of cases. 

The writer (Savage, 1918) examined the spleens of twenty-four pigs and 
ten calves, all within a few hours of death, for aerobic bacilli. Exactly 
half of the pig and half of the calf spleens were sterile, the remaining 50 
per cent, containing bacilli which were not completely identified but were 
mostly B. coli, non-lactose fermenters allied to B. coli, streptococci and 
staphylococci. No special enrichment methods were used in these examina- 
tions. 

These investigations show that the presence of organisms in the internal 
organs of domestic animals, even when examined within a few hours of 
death, does not of necessity indicate that they have any pathological 
relationship. 

B. Fresh musculature. Gaertner in 1908 found that bacilli were present 
on the surface of fresh meat but had not penetrated, if the examination 
was made within three days of slaughter, while by the end of ten days 
they had not penetrated more than 0-5 inch into the interior. These 



240 ADDENDUM VI [CH. 

results were confirmed by Foster (1908) as regards the general sterility 
of the interior of fresh meat. 

Horn (1910) found bacteria in the interior of the musculature finding, 
as might be expected, that the number varied with the time since slaughter, 

Conradi, also Meyer and Rommeler, found bacteria in a certain proportion 
of cases. Metzner (1910) investigated 145 cases and found the meat free 
from aerobic bacteria, but did not examine for anaerobic organisms. Also 
Junach, Grabert and Mergell are quoted by Filenski (1915) as finding the 
flesh of slaughtered animals sterile (the original references are not aveil- 
able). 

Miiller (1910) in 46 per cent, of investigated cases found bacteria present. 

Anyone who takes the trouble to prepare and stain microscopic prepara- 
tions from the surface of even quite fresh meat will be able to demonstrate 
the presence of large numbers of bacteria. With the interval since slaughter 
the numbers increase very rapidly and after 20-24 hours they are very 
numerous. Also when sections are cut and stained they can be seen pene- 
trating between the muscle fibres. 

The question as to how far perfectly fresh unhandled meat is sterile 
would appear to be undecided from the above discrepant findings. 

C. Chopped meat ("hackfleisch"). Zweifel (1911) at Leipzig examined 
248 specimens of "hackfleisch" obtained quite fresh and in 165 cases 
found B. proteus and other bacilli, all non-pathogenic to mice by feeding. 

Weinzirl and Newton (1914) examined what they call Hamburger steak, 
which is really scraps of meat collected during the day from the trimmings 
of steaks, etc. They found the number of bacteria, in the forty-four 
samples examined, to vary from 270,000 to 88 millions per gramme. All 
but two would be passed by physical tests (smell, appearance, etc.). The 
numbers of bacteria present were naturally much higher in warm weather. 
They suggested a standard of ten million bacteria per gramme as the 
limit. 

It is obvious that with meat of this kind the number of bacteria present 
will vary directly with the degree and cleanliness of the handling, the time 
since killing and the prevailing temperature. 

D. Sausages. The writer (Savage, 1908) obtained the following figures 
from twenty-seven sausage samples, all examined the same day as prepared 
and all obtained from different sources. 

B. coll organisms No. of specimens 

Less than 10 per grm. of sausage meat o 

10 — 100 ,, ,, ,, 4 

100 — 1000 „ ,, ,, 6 

1000 — 10,000 ,, ,, ,, 4 

10,000 — 100,000 ,, ,, ,, 7 

Over 100,000 ,, ,, ,, 2 

Over 100,000 but actual number not estimated 4 

The number of organisms present was determined for a few of the 
samples and varied from 360,000 to over 600,000 per gramme. Streptococci 
were also present in large numbers in a majority of the samples examined. 

Slooten (1909) with sausage of various ages found up to one million 
bacteria per gramme of sausage. 

Gary (1916) examined thirty-four pork sausages from Chicago shops. 
All but four contained B. coli, while 64 per cent, contained over 100 .B. coli 



XIV] ADDENDUM VI 24I 

per gramme of meat. The average bacterial content was 158,000 per grm. 
growing at 37° C. (2500 to 1,538,000 as extremes), and 9,018,000 at 20° C. 
(650 to 200,000,000 as extremes). Gary found Proteus vulgaris in three 
out of seven samples of scrapings from sausage casings, while this organism 
was isolated eleven times (33 per cent.) from the sausages themselves. 

E. Brawn. Brawn is, or should be, thoroughly boiled when prepared 
so that whatever its original bacterial contamination it should be free' 
from B. coli and non-sporing bacteria when made. As a rule this is the case, 
but brawn is a material very favourable to bacterial multiplication, so 
that if, after preparation, it is placed in positions liable to bacterial con- 
tamination specimens will soon show a high bacterial content. 

Of eleven samples examined by the writer B. coli was absent in o-i grm. 
in seven, present i-io per grm. in one, present 5000-10,000 in one, while 
in the remaining samples these organisms were about 50,000 per grm. 

III. COMPOSITION OF SOME OF THE MEDIA 
RECOMMENDED. 

A. Lactose-salicin-saccharose neutral red bile salt agar (L.S.S.B.A.). 
Sodium taurocholate 5 grammes, Witte's (or other suitable) peptone 20 
grammes, and distilled water i litre, are boiled up together, 20 grammes 
of agar are added and dissolved in the solution in the autoclave in the 
ordinary way. The medium is cleared with white of egg and filtered. 
After filtration, 10 grammes each of lactose, saccharose and salicin and 
5 c.c. of recently prepared i per cent, neutral red solution are added. The 
medium is then tubed, or put into small flasks, and sterilized for fifteen 
minutes on three successive days. 

B. Dulcite malachite green broth. Liebig's extract 10 grammes, peptone 
10 grammes, sodium chloride 5 grammes, are boiled up with a litre of 
distilled water. The mixture, after filtration, is made up accurately to a 

+ 1 per cent, reaction, and 5 grammes of dulcite are added; 0-5 gramme of 
powdered malachite green is very accurately weighed out and also added. 
The mixture, usually slightly turbid, is steamed for thirty minutes, and 
again filtered. It is tubed, 10 c.c. into each tube, and sterilized for thirty 
minutes on two successive days. 

If dulcite is not readily obtainable it may be replaced by glucose, but 
dulcite is preferable. 

C. Serum agar. Make up a 3 per cent, nutrient agar and tube in the 
ordinary way. Melt and cool to about 50° C. To each tube add half the 
quantity of sterile blood serum. Mix and pour into a petri dish. Incubate 
overnight to test- sterility. 

If glucose serum agar is required the nutrient agar should also contain 
I per cent, of glucose. 



16 



INDEX 



Abortion in mares and Gaertner in- 
fections 85 

Actinomycosis 10, 11 

Aerobes, putrefactive 112 

Agaricus campestris 28 

Agaricus oreades 28 

Age and sex distribution in food 
poisoning outbreaks 48 

Agglutination tests, value of 8, 235 

Agrostemma githago 33 

Alimentary toxaemia io6 

Amanita-haemolysin 30 

Amanita muscaria 28 

Amanita phalloides 28,30 

Amanita verna 29 

Amines, in human intestine 107; in 
putrefaction 103, 116 

Amino-acids and bacterial growth 
103; composition loi; de- 
gradation products of 102 

Anaerobes, putrefactive 109 

Anaphylaxis and food idiosyncrasy 
36 

Animal organs, bacteria in 239 

Animals, inherently poisonous 24; 
infectious diseases transmiss'ble 
to man 10 

Anthrax 2, 10, 11 

Antimony in foods 193 

Apples and arsenical contamination 
192 

Arsenic in baking powder 193; in 
beer 188; in food 188; in 
glucose 189; in insecticide 
solutions 192; in shellac 192; 
in sweets 191 

Asthma and food idiosyncrasy 39 

Bacillus abortus equi 85 

Bacillus aerogenes capsulatus iii 

Bacillus aertrycke 64, 171 

Bacillus hotulinus and botulism 151 ; 
characters of 151; distribution 
in nature 157 ; first isolation of 
8, 151; isolation of 234 

Bacillus cadaveris sporogenes no 

Bacillus coli and cheese poisoning 
136, 138; and food poisoning 
58, 95, 98; as a putrefactive 
organism 113; isolation of 233 

Bacillus enteritidis and human dis- 
ease 66; characters of 66; 
first isolation of 7; in human 
intestine 88; in milk out- 
breaks 162; in prepared meats 



92; in rats and mice 91, 92; 
position in Gaertner group 63, 
64 ; toxins of 75 ; variation of 
characters 65; virulence by 
feeding 73 
Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes iii 
Bacillus faecalis alkaligenes 59 
Bacillus glasser 81 
Bacillus hypertoxicus 59 
Bacillus morhificans bovis 84 
Bacillus of malignant oedema no 
Bacillus paratyphosus A 61, 66 
Bacillus paratyphosus B in brewery 
yeast 65; in human intestine 
88; in paratyphoid fever 66; 
in rats and mice 91; position in 
Gaertner group 63, 64; toxins 
of 75; virulence by feeding 72 
Bacillus perfringens in 
Bacillus prodigiosus 59 
Bacillus proteus and food poisoning 
58, 119; and potato poisoning 
143; as a cause of disease 
124; as a putrefactive organ- 
ism 112; characters of 112 
distribution in nature 123; 
isolation of 233; outbreaks 
ascribed to 126; pathogenicity 
of 124; products of growth 
125; symbiosis of 126 
Bacillus psittacosis 86 
Bacillus putrificus no, 114, 118 
Bacillus sporogenes in, 118 
Bacillus subtilis 114 
Bacillus suipestifer and swine fever 
81, 163; in guinea-pigs 92; in 
prepared meats 92; in the 
animal intestine 89; in the 
human intestine 88; in rats 
and mice 91 ; position in 
Gaertner group 63, 64; varia- 
tion of characters 65 
Bacillus typhi murium 63, 176, 178 
Bacillus welchii no, in, 118 
Bacteria, action on amino-acids 
103; action on proteins 102; 
in mussels 133; isolated in food 
poisoning outbreaks 55 
Bacterial carriers and food poisoning 
1 70, 1 72 ; content of meat foods 
239; mass infection and food 
poisoning 95; variability 64 
Bacteriological examinations in food 

poisoning outbreaks 231 
Bacteriology of putrefaction 109 



244 



INDEX 



Baking powder, arsenic in 193 
Barbel poisoning 26 
Beer, arsenic in 188, 191 
Benzoic acid and food preservation 

206, 207 
Beri-beri 2 

/3-imidazolethylamine 104, 108 
Bird diseases and Gaertner bacilli 86 
Boric acid and food y reservation 

205-208 
Botryomycosis 1 1 
Botulism 8, 149 
Brawn, bacteria in 241; Gaertner 

group bacilli in 92 ; methods of 

preparation 220; preparation 

in slaughterhouses 219 
Braxy 12 
Bread as a disease conveying 

vehicle 14, 221 
Bream poisoning 26 
Buckwheat and food idiosyncrasy 

35 

Cadaverine 6, 104, 105, 107 

Calves and Gaertner group infec- 
tions 83 

Canine distemper and Gaertner in- 
fections 86 

Canned foods and investigation by 
Central Authority 226; and 
tin 196; extent of practice 195 

Canned meat and heat penetra- 
tion 17 

Carp, poisonous 26 

Carriers and food poisoning 170,172 

Case-mortality rate in food poison- 
ing outbreaks 49 

Case to case infectivity in food 
poisoning outbreaks 48 

Cheese and food idiosyncrasy 36; 
poisoning 135 ; putrescine in 105 

Chemical changes in putrefaction 
100 

Chemical poisons in food t88 et seq. 

Cholera spread by milk 18 

Choline 105 

Cider and lead poisoning 194 

Claviceps purpurea 3 1 

Cockles and disease 14, 22 

Colouring matters in foods 210 

Cooking, importance of 15 

Copper and "greening" of vege- 
tables 209; in oysters 194; 
poisoning 194 

Corn-cockle and food poisoning 33 

Cows and Gaertner group infections 
84 

Cystine, bacterial action on 103 



Danysz bacillus 176 
Diarrhoea spread by milk 18 
Diphtheria spread by food 18 



19 



Diseases caused by Gaertner group 

bacilh 68 
Drying of food 203 
Dulcite malachite green broth 241 
Dysentery spread by milk 19 

Eggs and food idiosyncrasy 35, 39 
Enamels and lead poisoning 193 
Enteritis in cows and Gaertner in- 
fections 84 
Ergotism 31 

Feeding and Gaertner infections 72 
Fish and food idiosyncrasy 36; 
food poisoning outbreaks from 
54, 130; inherently poisonous 24 
Flies and food poisoning 180 
Fluorides and food preservation 206 
Food as a passive vehicle for infec- 
tion 13, 14, 21; canned 195; 
idiosyncrasy 34; handlers, 
medical examination of 22; 
handlers, need for supervision 
of 22 
Food poisoning and bacterial mass 
infection 95; extent of 3, 9; 
historical account 4; from 
mussels 131; from shellfish 

131 
Food poisoning outbreaks, age and 
sex distribution 48; and B. 
proteus 126; and animal dis- 
eases 160; bacteria isolated 
5$; case mortality rate 49; 
case to case infectivity 48; 
classified according to vehicle 
3; collection of material 228; 
from rats and mice 176; in- 
cubation period 47; infectivity 
rate 49; inquiries required 
226; methods of investigation 
of 225; nature of the food 53; 
need for investigation of 218; 
official cognizance of 222; path- 
ological appearances 50; phy- 
sical appearance of food 53; 
prevention of 215; seasonal 
prevalence 51; sources of in- 
fection 159, 169; spread by 
milk 18; symptoms of 47; 
tabular list 76 
Food preservation methods 202 
Food, sources of ill-health from i 
Foot and mouth disease 11 
Formaldehyde as a food preserva- 
tive 206 
Frankenhausen outbreak 7 
Freezing apparatus for transmitting 

food 230 
Fried fish and food poisoning 14 
Fruit spraying and arsenic poisoning 
192 



INDEX 



245 



Fugu 25 

Fungi, poisonous 28 

Gaertner group agglutinins in heal- 
thy animals 87 

Gaertner group bacilli and abortion 
in animals 85; and bird dis- 
eases 86; and canine distemper 
86 ; and diseases of calves 83 ; 
and enteritis in cows 84; and 
rodent disease 87; animal 
diseases caused by 67, 81; as 
disease producing organisms 
66, 81; characters of 61; 
classification of 62, 63 ; distri- 
bution in nature 68, 88; heat 
resistance of 74; human dis- 
eases caused by 66; in animal 
pyaemic and septicaemic con- 
ditions 84; in meat and pre- 
pared meat 92; in milk 161; 
in rats and mice 91, 175; in 
swine fever 81 ; in the animal 
intestine 89 ; in the human in- 
testine 88; limitation of dis- 
ease from 221; methods of 
isolation 232; prevalence in 
outbreaks 55; salt action on 
181; sources of in outbreaks 
159. 170; toxins of 74; vari- 
able pathogenicity of 70, 176 

Glass retainers for food 196 

Glucose, arsenic in 189 

Greening of vegetables 209 

Greenland shark, poisoning from 26 

Green oysters 195 

Guinea-pigs and Gaertner group 
bacilli 175 

Hackfleisch 93, 240 

Heat penetration in canned foods 1 7 

Heat resistance of Gaertner group 

bacilli 74 
Helvetia esculentia 30 
Herrings, poisonous 26, 27 
Histidine 104 

Historical account of food poisoning 4 
Hydrogen peroxide as a food pre- 
servative 206 

Ice-cream and infectious diseases 
14; poisoning 140 

Idiosyncrasy and food 34 

Incubation period in food poisoning 
outbreaks 47 

Indol and putrefaction changes 
107, 108 

Infants and foreign proteins 42; 
idiosyncrasy to milk 43 

Infectious diseases of animals trans- 
missible to man 10; spread by 
food 14, 19 



Infectivity rate in food poisoning 

outbreaks 49 
Insecticide solutions and arsenic 192 

Laboratory investigation of food 
poisoning outbreaks 231 

Lactose-salicin- saccharose neutral 
red bile salt agar 232, 241 ■ 

Lampreys 4 

Lathy rism 32 

Lead in canned foods 196; poison- 
ing 193; sources in food 194 

Linseed and food idiosyncrasy 36 

Liverpool rat virus 177 

Lobsters and food poisoning 134 

Made-up foods and food poisoning 
55, 220 

Malta fever 10, 13, 18 

Mastitis in cows and food poisoning 
i6i 

Meat as a nutritive medium for 
bacteria 14; bacteria in 239; 
inspection and the prevention 
of food poisoning 218 

Meat pies, temperature reached in 
cooking 17; salting in slaugh- 
terhouses 219 

Medical profession and food poison- 
ing outbreaks 217 

Methylamine 104 

Mice and food poisoning outbreaks 
176; and Gaertner group bacilli 
91, 175; and Gaertner group 
diseases 87, 222 

Milk and food poisoning 53, 161; 
and infectious diseases 14; as 
a vehicle of disease spread 18; 
B. proteus in 123; of cow and 
infant idiosyncrasy 43; poison- 
ous from cows eating poisonous 
plants 28 

Mineral waters and antimony 193 

Muscarine 30, 105 

Mushroom poisoning 5, 28 

Mussel poisoning 106, 131, 132 

Mussels and infectious disease 14 

Mytilotoxine 106, 132 

Neurine 105 

Nitre as a food preservative 203 

Oatmeal, food poisoning outbreak 

from 129 
Oysters and copper 194; and food 

poisoning 133; and infectious 

disease 14, 21 

Para-Gaertner bacilli 62 ; in animal 
intestine 89 

Paratyphoid fever and food poison- 
ing 170; spread by milk 18 



246 



INDEX 



Pathogenicity of Gaertner group 70 

Pathology of food poisoning out- 
breaks 50 

Pellagra 2 

Perch, poisonous 26 

Phallin 30 

Pickling fluids, Gaertner group 
bacilli in 92 

Poisonous animals 24; fish 24; 
flowering plants 27; fungi 28; 
metals, examination for 237 

Poisons, chemical, in food 188 et seq. 

Polypeptides 10 1 

Pork and food idiosyncrasy 36 

Potato poisoning 141 

Preservatives in food 202 et seq. ; 
examination for 237; harm- 
fulness of 206; objections to 
204; objects of addition 202; 
selective action of 205; un- 
satisfactory present position 212 

Prevention of food poisoning out- 
breaks 215 

Protein degradation products and 
food poisoning 115 

Proteins and food idiosyncrasy 35, 
36; bacterial action on 102, 
113; composition of loi ; de- 
gradation products of 102 

Proteus vulgaris (see Bacillus pro- 
teus) 

Ptomaine poisoning 6, 99, 115, 118, 
217 

Ptomaines 6, 104, 115 

Putrefaction and food poisoning 99, 
115; and ptomaines 104; bac- 
teriology of 109; chemical 
changes in 100; chemical tests 
for 237; definition of 113 

Putrefactive aerobes 112, 113; 
anaerobes 109, 113; bacteria 
and amino-acids 102; bacteria 
and food poisoning 118, 120; 
bacteria and proteins 102; 
meat, B. proteus in 123 

Putrescine 104, 105, 107 

Putrid meat, toxicity of 119 

Pyaemic and septicaemic conditions 
and food poisoning 7, 12; and 
Gaertner infections 84 

Rats and Gaertner group infections 
87, 176, 222; Gaertner group 
bacilli in 91 

Rattin 176 

Rodents and Gaertner group in- 
fections 87 

Salicylic acid as a preservative 206 
Salt as a food preservative 203, 206 
Salt solutions, viability of Gaertner 
bacilli in 181 



Salting of meat in slaughterhouses 
219 

Sapo-toxin 33 

Sardines and food poisoning 134 

Sausage poisoning 5, 8, 149 

Sausages and food poisoning 125, 
127, 128, 129 

Sausages, B. coli in 240; B. proteus 
in 123, 125, 241; bacteria in 
240; Gaertner group bacilli in 
92; preparation in slaughter- 
houses 219 

Scarlet fever spread by milk 18 

Scurvy 2 

Seasonal prevalence in food poison- 
ing outbreaks 50 

Sepsin 6 

Septicaemia and Gaertner group 
bacilli 83; in animals 12 

Serum agar, preparation of 241 

Shellac, arsenic in 192 

Shellfish and food poisoning 131, 
133 J poisonous 24 

Skatol from putrefaction 107, 108 

Skin diseases and food idiosyncrasy 
36, 40 

Slaughterhouses and food poisoning 
outbreaks 219 

Smoking of food 203 

Snails and food poisoning outbreak 
134; poisonous 27 

Solanine and potato poisoning 142 

Solder and metallic poisoning 199 

Sore throat outbreaks spread by 
milk 18 

Spaghetti and infectious disease 17 

Spraying of food and arsenical 
poisoning 192 

Strawberries and arsenical poisoning 
192 

Sturgeon fish, poisonous 26 

Sugar as a food preservative 203, 
206 

Sulphites as food preservatives 206, 
208 

Sulphuric acid, arsenic in 189 

Sulphurous acid as a food preserva- 
tive 206 

Sweets, arsenic in 191 

Swine fever and Gaertner group 
bacilli 81 

Symptoms in food poisoning out- 
breaks 47 

Tea, lead in 193 

Temperatures reached in cooking 

food 15 
Tetrodontidae, poisonous 25 
Tin, factors influencing amount in 

canned foods 196; in canned 

foods 196; poisoning from 

200; toxicity of 199 



INDEX 



247 



Tinned foods and food poisoning 

54; Gaertner group bacilli in 

92 

Tomatoes and food idiosyncrasy 36 

Toxins of Gaertner group bacilli 

74 
Tryptophane, putrefaction of 103, 

107 
Tuberculosis from animals 2, 11; 

spread by milk 18 
Typhoid carriers and food handling 

19; colon group, differentiation 

of 238 
Typhoid fever from food generally 

19; milk 18; oysters 21; 

spaghetti 18 



Tyramine 104, 107 
Tyrosine 104, 107 
Tyro-toxicon 6, 136, 137, 141 

Urticaria and food idiosyncrasy 36 

Variability of bacteria 64 
Variola 10, 12 

Vehicle of infection in food poison- 
ing outbreaks 53 
Vibrion septique no, n8 
Vinegar as a food preservative 203 
Vitamines 2 

Zinc in oysters 195 



CAMBRIDGE: PRINTED BY J. B. PEACE, M.A., AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS. 



THE CAMBRIDGE PUBLIC HEALTH SERIES 

UNDER THE EDITORSHIP OF 
G. S. Graham- Smith, and J. E. Purvis, M.A. 

jVL.U., r.K.o., University Lecturer in Chemistry and 

University Lecturer in Hygiene and Physics in their application to Hygiene 

Secretary to the Sub-Syndicate for and Preventive Medicine, and Secretary 

Tropical Medicine to the State Medicine Syndicate 

The books in this series are written by experts, and the authors are 
occupied, or have been occupied, either in investigations connected 
with the various themes or in their apphcation and administration. 
It is hoped that the volumes will be useful to the medical profession 
at home and abroad, to bacteriologists and laboratory students, to 
municipal engineers and architects, to medical officers of health and 
sanitary inspectors and to teachers and administrators. 

Volumes now ready 
Flies in Relation to Disease : Non-Bloodsucking Flies. 

By G. S. GRAHAM-SMITH, M.D., F.R.S. Second edition. Revised and 
enlarged. With 27 plates, 32 text-figures, and 20 charts. Demy 8vo. 15s net. 
■ "The work is one of great value, and should be studied by every medical 
practitioner." — The Medical Times 

Flies in Relation to Disease: Bloodsucking Flies. By 

E. HINDLE, B.A., Ph.D. With 88 text-figures. Demy 8vo. 12s 6d net. 
"We must congratulate Mr Hindle on the completeness of his work, on 
his admirable illustrations, and on his exhaustive index." — The British Medical 
Journal 

Isolation Hospitals. By H. FRANKLIN PARSONS, M.D., 

D.P.H. With 55 illustrations. Demy 8vo. 12s 6d net. 

"The author has given to Medical Officers of Health, hospital superintendents, 
and all persons concerned in the control and management of isolation hospitals, the 
best and latest information on the subject of isolation hospitals, their utility, design, 
cost, and the latest approved examples." — The Sanitary Reco7'd 

The Bacteriological Examination of Food and Water. By 

WHXIAM G. SAVAGE, B.Sc, M.D., D.P.H. Second edition. With 
16 illustrations. Demy 8vo. los net. 
*' It is rare to find in one individual such a happy blend of administrative 
experience and specialised technical knowledge as is possessed by Dr Savage, and the 
results are shown in every page of this admirable treatise. " — Public Health 

Food Poisoning and Food Infections. By W. G. Savage. 

Demy 8vo. 15s net. 

The Chemical Examination of Water, Sewage, Foods, and 

other Substances. By J. E. PURVIS, M.A., and T. R. HODGSON, M.A. 

Demy 8vo. los 6d net. 

'iThis book is extremely clear and concise, containing within 228 pages the 
methods of analysis for water, sewage, foods, disinfectants, gases, ragflock and urine.... 
The large number of typical analyses, accompanied by notes and descriptions of the 
reasons for the final decisions, are exceedingly helpful in that difficult matter, the 
interpretation of the results of an analysis. ...The book is exceedingly useful, and 
the references and bibliography throughout the book are valuable to any worker 
on these subjects." — The Journal of the Koyal Sanitary Institute 

Sewage Purification and Disposal. By G. B. Kershaw, 
M.Inst.C.E. With 56 illustrations. Demy Svo. 12s 6d net. 
" No book more worthy of perusal and study by those who are interested 
in the subject of sewage purification has been published in recent years.. . . 
A technical book which is at once readable and instructive." — The Journal of 
the Institute of Sanitary Engineers 

[p. T. O. 
I 






CAMBRIDGE PUBLIC HEALTH SERIES 

Volumes now ready, continued 

Infant Mortality. By H. T. Ashby, M.A., M.D. With 9 illustra- 
tions. Demy 8vo. 12s net. 
" A painstaking digest of the vast literature on the subject which has of late 
years accumulated. . . . Dr Ashby has done his work exceedingly well and has 
given fair and unprejudiced acknowledgment to the several factors which have 
contributed to the great fall in the mortality rate among infants." — The Lancet 

Post-Mortem Methods. By J. M. Beattie, M.D. With 8 plates 
and 3 text-figures. Demy 8vo. 12s net. 
" Our impression of the book is extremely favourable, and we can con- 
gratulate the author on the issue of a most useful and practical volume. . . . 
We can with confidence recommend it to our readers, and we feel sure it will 
enjoy a wide and well-merited circulation." — The Medical Times 

Occupations from the Social, Hygienic, and Medical Points 

of View. By Sir Thomas Oliver, M.D., D.Sc, F.R.C.P. With 2 charts. 
Demy 8vo. 7s net. 

"The many-headed theme is dealt with in a thoroughly scientific, if brief, 
manner. . . . We welcome this book as a valuable introduction to the study of 
subjects which must grow in importance as trade and commerce increase." 

The Lancet 

The Causes of Tuberculosis. By L. Cobbett, M.D., F.R.C.S. 
With 23 plates. Demy 8vo. 23s net. 
" Such a work as Dr Cobbett's supplies a want, containing as it does the 
cream of modern knowledge on the subject of tuberculosis, presented in a 
form which is at once interesting and convincing. A full index and a concise 
summary of each section of the subject under discussion renders it easy of 
reference. The photographic illustrations of the disease in various types of 
animals are excellent and add considerably to the practical usefulness of the 
whole treatise." — The British Medical Journal 

In preparation 
Ticks as Carriers of Disease. By G. H. F. Nuttall, F.R.S. 
Serum Diagnoses. By Carl Browning, M.D. 
The Purification of Water in Sedimentation, Filtration and 

Precipitation. By Sir A. C. Houston, M.B., D.Sc. 

The Purification of Water by Ozone and Chlorine ; and 

Domestic Filters. By Sir G. Sims Woodhead, M.A., M.D. 

The Principles and Practice of the Dilution Method of 

Sewage Disposal. By W. E. Adeney, D.Sc. 
Disinfection. By C. W. Ponder, M.D. 

Housing in Relation to Public Health. By C. J. Coleman, M.D. 
School Hygiene. By E. T. Roberts, M.D. 

Soils, Subsoils, and Climate in Relation to Health. By G. 

Walker, M.B. 
Vital Statistics. By R. Dudfield, M.B., and G. Udny Yule, M.A. 
Foods, Sound and Unsound. By H. C. Haslam, M.A., M.D., Sc.D. 

Cambridge University Press 
.Fetter Lane, London, E.G. 4 : C. F. Clay, Manager 



I 



CO 



CO 






i 

■<Hi 
H 
H 

N 

O; 

o 

Oi 



OJ! 

col 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



•t^ 



