Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 






^ 







?1 

•1 

I 

,11 
1 
\ 



•i: 



"Cvery girl ousrht to know that cookery is a fine art and 
the mastery of it an accomplishment of which to be proud." 

—Ella Wheeler Wilcox. 



SLADE'S 

COOKING 
SCHOOL 

RECIPES 



BY 



25 Cooking School Teachers 



TOGETHER WITH A OOLIiECTION 

OF HOUSEHOIiD AND 

HEAI/TH HINTS 



Eighth Edition 



BOSTON 

D. & L. SLADE CO. 

1920. 



'it*'!-. 



INDEX 



How to meiisure 76 

Household Hints 72 

Keeping Well 70 



Time Table for Cooking. 
Health Hints 



BREAD, ROIiliS, ETC. 



Congress Baking Powder 

Biscnits 9 

Corn Bread 9 

Date Muffins 9 

Graham Bread 9 

Nut Bread 9 

Oatmeal Rolls 10 

Rye, Graham or Oatmeal. 

Bread ^ 10 



Rolls or Bread 

Rice Muffins 

Rice Muffins No. 2 

Slade's Spice-and-Fruit Rolls 

Small Plum Brown Bread 
(Grandmothers' Pudding 
Sauce) 

Tea Muffins 



FRITTERS AND GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Banana Fritters, Lemon Sauce • 13 • ; Sq«;iash- Griddle Cakes, 

SOUPS. . 



Cream Soup with Vegetables 14 

Chicken Soup 16 

Clam Bisque - 16 



Cream Soup with Stock, 
Tomato Tapioca Soup . 



MEATS, ENTREES AND VEGETABLiES. 



Chicken Croquettes 18 

Chicken and Tapioca Panada 18 
Lamb and Macaroni, Bre<Hi: 

Style 18 

Lamb Chops, Broiled 18 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 21 

Turkey, Roasted and Stuffed 21 



Stuffing 

Stewed Kidneys 

Stewed- Mutton 

Veal en Casserole 

Veal Balls en Casserole 

Spanish Rice with Tomato 
Sauce 



CURRIES. 



Curry of Chicken 28 

Curried Potatoes 23 

Curried Shrimps 28 

Curry of Vegetables 23 



Veal Forcemeat 
Curry Sauce - . 
Curry Sauce . . . . 
Hawaiian Curry . 



Balls in 



EGGS. 



Egg Nog, Orange 24 



Scrambled Eggs with Toma- 
to and Ham 



Vegetables 26 

Beets in Sauce 26 

Tomato Sauce Relish 26 



VEGETABLES. 

Potato Timbal .en Surprise. 

Thick White Sauce 

Squash P|^lf 



SAIiADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 

Mock Lobster Salad . , 
Pear and Nut Salad. 

Potato Salad , 

Poinsettia Salad . . . . 
Spanish Salad 



Chewy Salad * . . .^ 28 

Fruit Salad Dressing 28 

Halibut Salad 28 

French Dressing .• 29 

Green Pea Salad 29 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES. 

Chicken Wiggles 30 1 Welsh Rarebit . 

Welsh Rarebit 30 



FISH. 



Baked Halibut 31 

Deviled Scallops 31 

Fillets of Halibut, a la Sl<ide 31 

Fish with Greelx Peppers... 32 



Scalloped Fish 

Scalloped Scallops .... 
Savory Finnan Haddie, 
Tartar Sauce 



76 
63 



11 
11 
11 
12 



12 
12 



13 



16 
17 



21 
21 
21 
22 
22 

27 



24 
24 
24 



25 



26 
27 
27 



29 
29 
80 
SO 
30 



81 



32 
32 
33 
33 



OAKE 

Angel Cakelets 34 

Angel Cftke 34 

Angel Cake 34 

Apple Sauce Cake, Frosting 35 

Callas ^ 35 

Caramel Cake,. Filling and 

Frosting 35 

Cocoanut Fruit Cake 36 

Cocoa Sponge Cake 36 

Cocoa Doughnuts 36 

Chocolate Cake 86 

Chocolate Pie 36 

Coffee Spice Cake 37 

Corn Starch Cake with Choco- 
late Nut Frosting 37 

Dutch Apple Cake 37 

Fruit Cake 38 

Fruit Cake 38 

Gingerbread 39 

Ginger Puffs 39 

Lemon Tie -Filling ' 39 

Hamlets 39 

Maple Walnut Cream Cake 

with Maple Frosting 40 

PUDDINGS AND 

Apple Roll, I-ieraon Sauce.... 47 

Apricot and ^Tapioca Trifle ... 47 

Boiled Cracker Pudding . . . , . 48 

Caramel Tapioca Cream ..... 48 

Baked Indian Pudding 48 

Baked Tapioca Pudding 49 

Banana and Tapioca Char- 
lotte 49 

Caramel Pudding 49 

Cherry Tapioca Pudding 49 

Coffee Tapioca Cream 49 

Coffee Cream 60 

Custard Indian Pudding 60 

Fig and Ginger Pudding 50 

Fniit and Tapioca Pudding . . 50 

German Tapioca Pudding .... 50 

PICKIiES AND 

Chili Sauce 56 

Fig Pickles 67 

French Pickles 57 

Green Tomato Sweet Pickle.. 57 

Mixed Pickles 57 

Olive Oil Pickles 58 

Pickled Beets, Spiced 58 

Piccalilli or Chowchow 58 

Pickled Shad or Blueflsh 58 

Pickled Mushrooms 59 

Pickled Oysters 59 



AND PIES. 

Molasses Drop Cakes 40 

Molasses Doughnuts 40 

Nut Layer Cake with Choco- 
late Nut Frosting 41 

Oatmeal Drop Cookies 41 

Orange Shortcake with Boiled 

Frosting 41 

Orange and Pineapple Short- 
cake 42 

Quick Loaf Cake 42 

Raisin Pie 42 

Rocks 42 

Spice Cake 43 

Spice Cake 43 

Spice Cake 43 

Sour Milk Doughnuts 44 

Sponge Cake 44 , 

Squash Pie 44 

Strawberry Shortcake 44 

Strawberry Shortcake (Indi- 
vidual) 46 

Strawberry dhortcake 45 

Tea Cake, Filling 46 

DAINTY DESSERTS. 

• Oatmeal Pudding 63 

Orange Sago 53 

Peach Tapioca Pudding ...... 53 

Prune Sago Pudding 53 

Raspberry Whip • 64 

Rhubarb Tapioca 54 

Rice and Tapioca Pudding ... 64 

Sago Pudding 64 

Strawberry Tapioca 64 

Strawberry Sponge 65 

Tapioca and Macaroon Cream 56 

Tapioca with Apples 66 

Tapioca Sponge 65 

Thanksgiving Pudding 66 

Virginia Pone 66 



PRESERVES. 

Pickled Pears 69 

Ripe Tomatoes, Pickled 69 

Stringless Beans, Pickled. ... 69 

Sweet Pickled Crab Apples ... 60 

Sweet Pickled Pears 60 

Tomato Oatsup 60 

Mint Jelly «0 

Spiced Goosberries 61 

Spiced Grapes 61 

Spiced Rhubarb Jelly 61 



FROZEN DAINTIES. 



Frozen Caramel Custard 62 

Slade's Vanilla Ice Cream ... 62 
Strawberry Macaroon Ice. ... 63 



Pistachio Bisque Ice Cream 
Cherry Almond Mousse .... 



BELL'S SPICED SEASONING RECIPES. 



Tomato Soup 65 

Jellied Meats or Fowl 65 

Bell's Croquettes 65 

Veal Ix)af 06 

Meat or Turkey Dressing... 66 

A Nice Turkey Dressing.... 66 

Esculloped Meat or Fish.... 66 

Miss Farmer's Turkey Dressing 66 



Delicious Dressed Beef. . . . 
Delicious Lamb Croquettes. 

Hamburg Steak 

Salmon Loaf 

S[)iced Beef . . 

Escalloped Oysters 

Meat Souffll 

Delicious Sausage 



63 
63 



66 
66 
67 
67 
67 
67 
67 
68 



i slware reliable; It makes food 



The Most Important 

thing in preparing wholesome food is to be sure that 
you have pure and healthful ingredients to begin with. 
If the baking powder is adulterated, if it contains 
unwholesome substances, if it is not properly pro- 
portioned and prepared, your best efforts and most 
valuable recipes will not produce wholesome food. 

S L A D E ' S 

CONGRESS 
Baking Powder 

An absolutely Pure Grape Cream 
of Tartar baking powder, unsurpassed 
for efficiency and health conducing 
quality. 

Ilade's-revere PS^'S^r 

Is a popular priced baking powder that produces per- 
fect results. It is composed of Acid Phosphate of 
Calcium, Sodic Aluminic Sulphate, Bi- 
carbonate of Soda and Corn Starch. 
These are all of the highest quality and 
so proportioned as to produce efficient 
and wholesome results. U. S. Govern- 
ment reports show that a properly 
made baking powder containing above 
ingredients to be as wholesome ^s any 
made. 



When a noted physician like Bennett F. Davenport, M. D., 
certifies to the high quality of the Slade's Baking Powder, it 
ought to be convincing. 



PREFACE. 

If the one who makes two blades of grass grow where 
only one grew before is "a public benefactor" so is the 
one who improves the daily food of the people, either by 
supplying articles of superior excellence or by suggesting 
superior methods of preparation, thus adds to the health 
and happiness of the people. 

This book is presented to the public with the purpose 
in mind of impressing the importance of using only high 
grade food articles of known purity and excellence and 
at the same time suggesting methods of preparing the 
food that will add to their palatability and wholesomeness. 

The government reports as well as the thousands of 
family papers are constantly calling attention to the dis- 
honest and often injurious adulteration of food articles 
and are constantly reiterating the fact that the only pro- 
tection the purchaser can have is by buying only in pack- 
ages bearing the name of a reliable manufacturer. 

The indifference of housekeepers and the sharp compe- 
tition of the present day frequently force grocers to sell 
inferior goods to meet the seeming cut prices of unprin- 
cipled or ignorant dealers. 

If you are so careless or ignorant or indifferent that 
you willingly pay as much for poor stufC as you would 
for the best, why blame the grocer if he gives you that which 
pays the best profit? 

Your health and that of those dependent upon you, the 
pleasures of those who eat at your table, and even economy 
appeal to you to exercise care and good judgment in bu;y- 
ing, so that to be indifferent is almost criminal in these 
enlightened days. 

The best baking powder, spices, flavoring extracts, etc., 
are always the most economical and wholesome and the 
housekeeper makes a mistake if she fails to insist upon 
SLADE'S. 

"Such a house as the D. & L. Slade Co., Boston, for illus- 
tration, offers the careful housekeeper a protection which 
cannot be overestimated, for goods bearing their label 
are the best and purest obtainable and can be used with a 
sense of utmost security, as regards their wholesomeness 
and freedom from adulteration. 



Manufacturers and sellers of adulterated foods justify their 
fraud by saying:, "It sells and suits.** You encourage decep- 
tion when you accept the poor stuff In place of Slade*s Spices. 

"The most searching analysis of the D. & L. Slade Co.'s 
spices but demonstrates their excellence and absolute 
purity, and condiments sold under their brand are emi- 
nently worthy of praise from every physician and every 
health Journal in the land/' A. R. Gray, M. D. 

Slade's Baking Powder is an abaolutely pure ferape 
cream tartar baking powder, and for wholesomeness and 
efficiency is unexcelled. 

SLADE'S Spices and Flavoring Extracts are all pure, 
always pure and pure in all ways; they are absolutely 
reliable and will impart to the food a flavor superior to any 
other. 

SLADE'S Cream Tartar and Baking Soda are so pure 
that they can be used for medicinal purposes as well as 
for baking, with the assurance that nothing purer or better 
can be bought anywhere at any price. 

Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca is one of the most con- 
venient as well as the most wholesome foods; unlike the 
old fashioned Pearl Tapioca it needs no soaking but cooks 
instantly. Dr. Benjamin F. Walker, of New York, says: 
"No better, purer or more wholesome food product could 
be asked than Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca. In every 
essential feature it is most excellent." 

We strongly recommend Bell's Spices Seasoning for 
Poultry, Fish, Game and Meats of all kinds. A dressing 
or stufl!ing flavored with Bell's Seasoning is both economical 
and wholesome, adding to the pleasure of the meal. 

Many of the Spices and Extracts sold by druggists and 
grocers are adulterated or below standard and are, there- 
fore, unreliable and dangerous to use.; on this account you 
should always insist upon Slade's in labeled packages bear- 
ing the name of the D. & L. Slade Co. 

In all recipes calling for Baking Powder the modern 
cooking school method is to use two level teaspoons of 
Slade's Baking Powder to a cup instead of the old way 
of two heaping teaspoons to a quart of flour. 

8 



*'Slade'8" — ^the very spice of life that gives it all its flavor. 



BRSAD, ROIiliS, ETC. 

Slade*s Bakliig Powder Biscuits (made with entire wheat 

flour.) 
2 cups entire wheat flour ' % cup milk 
4 teaspoons Slade's 2 tablespoons butter 

Baking Powder 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 
, Mix and sift together the dry ingredients. Cut in the 
butter with a knife and then cut in the milk. Roll out %- 
Inch thick and cut with a cutter. Bake 12 to 15 minutes 
in a good oven. — M. C. Jones, Cambridge, Mass. 

No matter how good the cook may be, if the baking 
powder is poor the biscuit will not be as good as it ought 
to be. You can insure good results by using Slade's, the 
best baking powder; it is always reliable: your grocer sells it. 
Corn Bread. — Mix one cup corn meal, 1 cup flour, 2 tsp. 
Sl&de's Baking Powder, % teaspoon salt, ^ cup sugar. 
Beat one egg until very light and add 2 tablespoons melted 
butter or drippings, mix well and add 1 cup milk. Unite 
mixtures, beat until smooth, and bake in buttered shallow 
pan, or gem pans in hot oven 20 to 30 minutes. — ^H. A. 
liuestis, Boston, Mass. 



1 cup sweet milk 
1 tablespoon melted butter 
H cup dates cut in small 
pieces 



Date Muffins. — 

2 cups entire wheat flour 

3 teaspoons Slade's Bak- 
ing Powder 

2 tablespoons sugar 

H tablespoon salt 

1 egg 

Mix in the order given. Half fill 12 Muffin rings and 
bake. — Myrtie Ethelyn Robinson, Twentieth Century Cook- 
ing School. 
Graham Bread. — 

1% cups sour milk % teaspoon salt 

% cup sugar 2 teaspoons Slade's Soda 

% cup molasses 2 cups sifted Graham flour 

Mix the above thoroughly and bake forty minutes. — 

Isabelle Osborne, Instructor, School of Domestic Science, 

Boston, Mass. 

Nut Bread. — 

1 cup scalded milk 

1 cup boiling water 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 teaspoons salt 
2 tablespoons sugar 
1 yeast cake dissolved in 

V4. cup luke warm water 
Mix the first five ingredients, and when the mixture 
becomes luke warm, add the dissolved yeast and the bread 



2 cups bread flour 
3% cups entire 

flour 
1 cup English 

meats 



wheat 



walnut 



Few extract matiufacturers can say they never use artificial 
ethers, but Slade uses only the true and pure fruits and fruit 
oils. 

flour. This makes a soft sponge. Cover and set in a warm 
place for two hours, to ri^e. Sift in gradually 3% cups 
of entire wheat flour or enough to make a soft dough; add 
nut meats. Cover again and set in a wtfrm place until it 
doubles in bulk. Toss on a floured board, knead until 
smocth, shape into loaves. Let the" dough rise in bread 
pans until it doubles in bulk. Bake in a hot oven one 
hour. — L. C. Smith, Brookline, Mass. 
Oatmeal Rolls. — 

1 cup milk 1 cake yeast softened in 

% cup rolled oats % cup milk or water 

3 tablespoons butter 2 eggs, whites beaten stiff 

1 tablespoon sugar Flour to knead 

H teaspoon salt 
Scald the milk and pour over oats, add butter, sugar, and 
salt. When luke-warm add yeast, egg white and flour. 
Knead till elastic, let double in bulk and shape in small 
rolls. If a crusty roll is desired place far enough apart so 
that they will not touch when risen double. Bake in a 
hot oven. — Mary Macdermaid, Instructor, School of Domes- 
tic Science, Boston, Mass. 

Rye, Graham or Oatmeal Bread. — 

1 cup scalded milk % cake compressed yeast 

1 level teaspoon butter or 1% cups white flour 

lard , 1% cups Graham or rye 

1 level teaspoon salt flour or 

2 level teaspoons sugar 1 cup cooked oatmeal 
Melt the butter in the hot milk, mash and cream the yeast, 

sugar and salt and moisten with two tablespoons warm 
water. When the milk is cool add the yeast and white 
flour, using enough to make a drop batter after beating well. 
Let this sponge rise, surrounded with warm water, and 
when foamy, stir in either of the coarse meals, using enough 
to make a dough that will keep its shape, and could be 
handled if necessary. If it settles to a level when you stop 
stirring, add more flour till it will keep up round. Let the 
dough rise, covered, in a warm place; when doubled in 
bulk, shape into small loaves and let them rise again till 
double, or, if the dough should be too soft to handle, roll it 
in a little flour oti the board, and then roll it off into a 
greased pan Held under the edge of the board. Bake in a 
hot oven about an hour, and when done let it coOl un- 
covered, standing it on the edge. 

In making oatmeal bread, use ofle Cuj) of frdshly hiade. 
warm rolled oat mush; or, lacking this, scald oile cup of 
rolled oats with enough boiling water to swell and moisten 
all the grains and let it stand half an hour. Then proceed 

^or Graham Bread. — Mary J. Lincoln. Boston, Mas*. 

Id 



Slade's Spices tickle the taste and please the palate. 

Rolls or Bread. — 

1 pint scalded milk or 1 level teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk and 1 cup hot 1 level tablespoon sugar 

water % to 1 whole yeast cake 

1 rounded tablespoon lard % cup warm water 

or butter 3 pints sifted flour 

Put the hot milk, butter, salt alid sugar in the mixing 
bowl; soften the yeast in the warm water; use one-half 
cake if the dough is to be mixed at night and rise until 
morning, and a whole cake if mixed in the morning and 
a quick rising is desired. The latter is the better way. 

When the milk is cool, add the yeast and enough flour 
to make a dough that will stand up round when you stop 
stirring it. Mix with a strong knife, with a cutting-through- 
and-turning-over motion of the dough at every stroke, 
occasionally scraping from the edge of the bowl to the 
centre. 

When stiff, mix until no flour is seen, smooth it over the 
top, cover with a towel and pan and let it rise in a warm 
place.. If you prefer to knead the dough, add more flour, 
toss it out on the floured board and knead it with the palms, 
not the fingers, till fine-grained, elastic, and smooth clear 
through the mass. 

For a quick rising put the bowl in a pan of hot wiater 
(as hot as you can bear your whole hand in for a minute) 
and add hot water as needed to keep it at uniform tem- 
perature. When the dough is light and spongy around 
the edge and has doubled its bulk, which will be in from 
two to three hours, divide it into four equal parts if for 
bread, and into small portions if for rolls; knead each slights 
ly to shape, using a mere dusting of flour and be careful, to 
leave no dry flour on the surface; put loaves into a greased 
brick loaf pan, two in each, and the rolls into a shallow pan; 
cover well and when risen to the top of the pan, bake in 
a hot oven from forty to sixty minutes for bread and ten 
to flfteen minutes for rolls. Let the rolls rise more slowly 
and for a longer time than the bread, for they will not rise 
so much in the oven as the heat sets the dough cells almost 
immediately. — Mary J. Lincoln, Boston, Mass. 

Rice Mufiins. — Take one quart of sour milk, three well 
beaten eggrs, a little salt, a teaspoon of Slade's S<xda and 
enough Slade's Rice Flour to thicken to a stiff batter. Bake 
in rings. 

Rice Muffins No. 2. — One and one-half cups Slade's Rice 
Flour, a tablespoon of sugar, two teaspoons Slade's^ Baking 
Powder (or one teaspoon of Slade's Saleratus and two 
teaspoons Slade's Cream Tartar) a little salt, one egg, and 
one and one-half cups sweet milk. 

Mix thoroughly all the dry ingredients, then add the egg 
and. milk. Bake at once. 

■ V • « • " i 

11 



Variety is the spice of life — "Slade's is tlie best variety." 

Slade's Spice-and-Fruit-Rolls. — Sift together, three times, 
three cups of pastry flour, three rounding teaspoonfuls of 
Slade's Baking Powder and a generous half-teaspoonful 
of salt. Work in one-third a cup of shortening. Beat 
an egg, add about two-thirds a cup of milk, less rather 
than more, and use to mix the dry ingredients to a doufeh. 
Knead the dough slightly, then roll into a rectangular sheet 
about one-third an inch thick. Brush over with softened 
butter, sprinkle with half a cup of dried currants and then 
with three tablespoonfuls of sugar", mixed with a teaspoon- 
ful of Slade's Ground Cinnamon and one-fourth teaspogn- 
ful Slade's Cloves. Roll the dough as a jelly roll, then cut 
into inch-and-a-half lengths. Dispose these close together 
with one end upward in a buttered baking pan. Sprinkle 
,the tops with a little sugar and spice mixed together. Bake 
about twenty-flve minutes. Serve hot with cocoa. — Mrs. 
J. M. Hill, Boston, Mass.. 

It is Impossible to make a purer, stronger or more health- 
ful baking powder than Slade's. 

Small Plum Brown Bread (Grandmother's Pudding Sauce) 
2/3 cup Graham flour H teaspoon salt 

2/3 cup corn meal % cup molasses '. 

2/3 cup rye meal 1% cup thick sour milk 

1^ teaspoon Slade's Soda 1 cup raisins, seeded 

Thoroughly mix and sift the first five ingredients. Mix 
molasses and sour milk and add to the first mixture. Add 
raisins and stir well. Butter the inside of */4-lb. baking 
powder tins, fill them half full of. the mixture, cover tightly, 
place in a covered kettle of boiling water and steam one 
hour. Be sure to keep the kettle tightly covered, and the 
water boiling the entire time. If a crust is desired, put the 
brown bread in a hot oven after removing from the tins 
and bake % hour or until a firm crust forms. 

Grandmother's Pudding Sauce. — 

1 cup granulated sugar H cup orange juice 

% cup butter % cup boiling water 

Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly; add orange 
Juice and cream again, add boiling water gradually, mix 
well, and serve at once. If butter and sugar are thoroughly 
creamed, this sauce is very foamy. — L. C. Smith, Brookline» -^ 
Mass. 

Tea Muffins. — Mix t^o ;Cups bread flour, 2 teaspoons 
Slade's Baking Powder, % teaspoon salt and 1 table- 
spoon sugar. Beat 2 eggs until very light, add M cup 
melted butter and % cup milk. Unite mixtures; beat 
until smooth and bake in a hot oven 20 or 25 minutes. — 
H. A. Huestis, Boston, Mass. 

12 



Your only protection against fraud and adulteration is 
the name of a reliable manufacturer; get Slade*s Spices and 
Specialties. 

Slade's Baking Powder always ensures good results in 
baking. Poor baking powders lead to failure and disap- 
pointment, but Slade's produces light, pleasing and whole- 
some food. 

FRITTERS AND GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Banana Fritters. — 

1 cup bread flour % teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons Slade's 1 egg 
Baking Powder % cup milk 

3 teaspoons powdered 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
sugar 3 bananas 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Beat egg well, add 
milk and add this to dry ingredients; beat until smooth. 
Add banana which has been forced through a sieve and 
lemon juice. Drop by spoonfuls into deep hot fat. Drain 
and serve hot with Lemon Sauce as follows. This serves 
six persons. — Edna Burso, Worcester, Mass. 

Slade's Baking Powder is as pure and good a baking 
powder as can be hiade; it is made from grape cream tartar. 

Lemon Sauce. — 

% cup butter % cup boiling water 

1 cup sugar Juice and grated rind of 
3 egg yolks one lemon. 

Cream butter in top of double boiler; add sugar slowly. 
Add egg yolks beaten till a light yellow, then boiling water. 
Cook till thick ov«r hot water. Add lemon juice and grated 
rind. — Edn& Burso, Worcester, Mass. 

Squash Griddle Cakes. — 

2 cups flour 2 cups sifted squash 
1% cups milk 4 tablespoons sugar 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons Slade's Baking 
Powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat the eggs, add them 
and the milk to the squash. Pour over the dry ingredients 
ahd beat until smooth and light. Drop by spoonfuls on 
a greased hot griddle. When well puffed, full of bubbles 
and cooked on the edges, turn and cook on the other side. — 
Mary E. Ditson, Allston, Mass. 

SOUPS. 

For flavoring soups, chowders, etc., Slade's Extract of 
Onion will be found excellent. Slade's is the true extract 
of onion while much that is sold is artificial, being made 
from garlic or one of the coal tar derivatives. 

Too much stress cannot be laid upon the importance of 
flavoring soups properly; a dash of pepper may spoil all 
your efforts if the pepper is of poor quality, while ti little 

13 



No chemical preservatives in any of Slade*s groods; purity, 
cleanliness and scientific skill are depended upon as 
preservatives. 

of SLiADE'S Pepper will make it pleasing: to the palate; 
the difference in the flavor of the Pepper makes far more 
difference than most people think; that is why it is im- 
portant to be particular to get Slade's, which is always 
pure and good. 

Celery Salt gives a very pleasing flavor to many soups, 
but the same care must be exercised to get the best quality 
for probably three-fourths of the brands being sold are 
adulterated and the best protection you can have is to get 
SLADE'S, which can be depended upon to be absolutely 
pure, 

A small bag of Slade's Pickling Spice cooked in the soup 
gives a delicious flavor and the bag of spice can be removed 
just before the soup is served. 

Cream Soup with Vegetables. — ^The cooked and sifted 
pulp of almost every variety of fresh, canned or dried vege- 
table may be combined with milk, cream and eggs, seasoned 
appetizingly and served as soup., Many of the varieties 
may be prepared at short notice and are very useful in 
emergencies. 

To prepare vegetable pulp; wash, trim or pare and divide 
whatever vegetable is to be used. Cook those which have 
strong acrid juices like potato, cauliflower, onion, shell 
beans, etc., in boiling water Ave minutes, then discard this 
strong water and add water to cover and cook until very 
tender. If canned peas, string beans, and asparagus are 
to be used, drain off the water, as this often has an un- 
pleasant taste of the tin; rinse well and heat quickly in 
water to moisten. 

Soak whole dried peas, beans, lentils, etc., in cold water 
over night or until well swollen; split peas will cook soft 
without soaking. 

Chestnuts should be shelled and blanched before boiling. 

Green peas that are too hard to serve as a vegetable make 
an excellent soup and should be used in this way instead of 
cooking them with those which are tender, thereby spoiling 
all. 

In making sweet corn soup, scrape off the raw pulp, 
and put the cobs in cold water and cook half an hour, then 
use this water with the pulp. 

Cook tomatoes in their own Juices with a bit of onion 
and sweet pepper or a teaspoon of Slade's whole mixed 
spices and a bit of Slade's Soda and add the flour cooked 
in butter, before straining; this will expedite the process; 
making, when canned tomatoes are used and the milk is 
heated while the tomatoes are cooking, one of the best 
soups for an emergency. 

14 



Gongress Baking: Powder is a cream tartar baking; pow- 
der; Revere Baking Powder is cheaper but equally efficient. 
Both are wholesome or we should not sell them. 

Celery, carrot, salsify, parsnip and asparagrus should be 
cut in inch pieces to draw out the flavor quickly. 

When the vegetable is cooked tender, mash in the water; 
then press through a strainer flne enough to keep back 
seeds, hulls or fibre. Rest the strainer in the top of the 
double boiler and press with a wooden masher. With 
peas, or other vegetables having tough hulls, turn out after 
the first pressing into a dish and add water or milk to cover, 
stir well and this will help the remainder of the pulp to go 
through easily. Much would be wasted without this pre- 
caution. 

Now having prepared the vegietable pulp, the remainder 
of the process is very* simple, for you have only to add 
an equal part or any proportion convenient of milk or thin 
cream and thicken it to the desired consistency with flour 
or cornstarch cooked in butter, as for white sauce, seasoning 
as preferred. A general formula would be: 

1 pt. vegetable pulp with 2 level tablespoons flour 

Juice 1 level teaspoon salt 

1 pt. milk or thin cream Slade's Pepper to taste 

2 level tablespoons butter 

Add the milk to the pulp and heat; melt the butter in a 
sauce pan and cook in it one tablespoon each of minced 
onion and sweet pepper. Cook slowly without" coloring. 
Skim them out and put them with the pulp; stir in the 
flour, adding more butter if needed, blend and add gradu- 
ally one cup of the milk mixture; when smooth and thick 
stir this into the remainder. Add more milk or water if 
needed to very thick pulp of dried vegetables and use more 
flour with succulent vegetables. 

All vegetable cream soups are thicker as they cool, and 
should be a little thinner than desired at first and be served 
very hot. 

Some starchy vegetables would appear to need no thick- 
ening but to perfectly unite the pulp with the liquid, a 
small amount of flour is needed; and the soup has a finer 
flavor if this flour flrst be cooked in the butter, instead 
of diluted with water and stirred in, as then ft is often 
insufliciently cooked. 

Always plan to have extra milk for thining, as it is 
easier to thin the soup, than to add thickening if it be too 
thin; the pulp varies so much that an exact recipe is not 
always to be followed strictly. 

The extra seasoning for pea, corn or carrot soup may 
be a teaspoon of sugar, for spinach a teaspoon of lemon 
juice; for potato or cauliflower Slade's Celery Salt or grated 
cheese; for dried beans, Slade's Mustard, l«mon Juice and 
hard-boiled eggi. 

If 



Tbe healthful qualities of Slade's Quick Cookliifi: Tapioca 
are well known. 

Slivers of celery, chives or crisp fried bacon or tiny fried 
or toasted croutons, or fried fritter beans, or small cooked 
peas or asparagus tips, or sifted egg yolks may be served 
with any cream soup. 

To make richer cream soups, add double the amount of 
butter in small portions just before serving, or beaten eggs, 
cooking only a moment longer, or whipped cream, or com- 
bine white meat stock, or oyster juice or meat extract with 
the vegetable. — Mrs. Mary J. Lincoln, Writer and Lecturer 
on Household Science, Boston, Mass. 

Ohlck^i Soup. — Cook together slowly for one hour three 
pints of chicken liquor, a tablespoonful each of onion and 
carrot sliced, a sprig of parsley, stalk of celery, teaspoonful 
of sweet herbs, four peppercorns and a teaspoonful of salt; 
strain and reheat, then add four level tablespoonfuls of 
Slade'8 Quick Cooking Tapioca and cook until the tapioca 
is transparent. Add one pint of hot cream or milk. Beat 
the yolks of two eggs, add to them a few spoonfuls of the 
hot soup, and when well mixed stir them into the soup 
and remove at once from the fire. Have ready the whites 
of the eggs, slightly salted and beaten until stiff and dry 
and put them by spoonfuls into the soup tureen. Pour 
over them the hot soup and serve at once. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Clam BUique. — ^Wash two quarts soft shelled clams, put 
in a kettle with one-half cup hot water, cover, and cook 
until shells open. Drain liquor from clams and strain 
through a double thickness of cheese cloth. Add enough 
boiling water to make one qUart liquid. Cook one table- 
spoon finely cut onion and two tablespoons grated carrot 
in two tablespoons butter, five minutes. Add two table- 
spoons flour and stir until well blended, then pour on 
gradually while stirring constantly the clam liquor. Bring 
to the boiling point, strain and add one cup cream, and 
the yolks of two eggs beaten slightly. Season with salt, 
Slade's Pepper and a slight amount of Slade's Powdered 
Nutmeg. — Fannie Merritt Farmer. 

Cream Soup with Stock. — ^We include here all soups made 
by combining milk or cream, or white sauce and eggs, 
with a stock of chicken, veal, white blooded fish and shell 
fish. 

White stock is a general term for the water in which 
fowl, or chicken or a portion of veal has been boiled or 
steamed and it includes fish stock, which is made by boiling 
any white fish or the thinner shells of crabs and lobsters; 
and also oyster stock or the juice of parboiled oysters. 

After boiling whichever material you are to use in mak- 
ing the soup, strain the stock and remove the fat when 
'•old, or when ready to use; then dilute as desired vith 

16 



Slade's Spice is extra nice. 



milk or cream and thicken slightly with flour, or corn starch 
cooked in hot butter as for white sauce. Season simply 
with salt, Slade's Pepper or Cayenne, or add to each variety 
of soup some additional and appropriate seasoning. A 
general formula would be: 

1 pint white stock 1 or 2 level tablespoons 

1 pint milk or thin cream flour 

2 level tablespoons butter 1 level teaspoon salt 

1 level tablespoon corn- Slade's Pepper to taste 

starch. 

Heat the stock and milk in a double boiler, melt the 
butter in a sauce pan without browning; add the corn- 
starch and seasoning, blend and add gradually one cup 
of the hot stock; when stirred smooth add this to the re- 
mainder of the soup. 

The extra seasoning for chicken or oyster soup may be 
Slade's Celery Salt, Slade's Mace, bay leaf or minced pars- 
ley; for fish soup any preferred table sauce, catsup, or 
chives, or bay leaf. 

Slivers of onion, sweet pepper or Celery may be cooked 
slowly in the butter before adding the flour and strained 
from the sauce before serving. Richer cream soups may 
be made by stirring in one or two beaten eggs to each quart 
of soup, just before serving and letting it heat only long 
enough to slightly cook the egg; or by serving a small 
portion of whipped cream in the tureen. To oyster soup, 
add the minced and sifted parboiled oysters; to crab or 
lobster soup, the minced meat and to chicken the pounded 
and sifted breast of the boiled fowl. — Mary J. Lincoln, Writ- 
er and Lecturer on Household Science, Boston, Mass. 

Tomato Tapioca Soup. — Mix two cups stewed and strained 
tomato, one cup cold water, 3 tablespoons Slade's Quick 
Cooking Tapioca, one slice onion, 2 teaspoons sugar, % 
teaspoon salt, % teaspoon Slade's Pepper, few grains each 
Slade's Cloves and Celery Salt and cook until tapioca is 
clear. Remove onion, add three tablespoons butter and H 
teaspoon Slade's Soda and serve. — Alice Bradley, Boston, 
Mass. 

MEATS, ENTREES AND VEGETABLES 

The use of spice in foods is not alone to improve the 
flavor and please the palate, but it is also intended to tickle 
the glands of the stomach and make them produce an 
abundant supply of digestive juices. They also stir up the 
liver, a necessary function in the case of people of sedent- 
ary lives. The stronger the digestive organs the less the 
need of spices, but as people advance in years the need of 
the aid of spices increases. It is a remarkable circumstance 
that spices grow in hot climates where the heat prevents 
the active bodily exercise of colder climates and where 

17 



Don't be humbugged; if you want the best, get Slade's. 

men become sluggish and inactive, here men, animals 
and birds find it essential to eat spices in abnormal amounts. 
The beneficial effects of pepper, curry powder, and other 
condiments are generally recognized; the important thing 
is to get the pure; this can be done by refusing bulk spices 
and insisting upon having Slade's in sealed packages bear- 
ing the name "Slade's"; these are always absolutely pure 
and extra strong. 

Chicken Croquettes. — Stir a pint of fine-chopped chicken 
into a cup and a quarter of sauce, made of one-third cup 
of flour, three tablespoons butter, a cup of chicken stock, 
and one-fourth cup of cream; season with a few drops of 
Slade's Onion Extract, a teaspoon of lemon juice, one-half 
teaspoon Slade's celery jalt, and Slade's pepper. When 
thoroughly chilled, form into cylindrical shapes, roll in 
egg-and-bread-crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Serve sur- 
rounded with cooked peas and figures stamped from cooked 
slices of carrot seasoned with salt, Slade's Paprika and 
butter. — Mrs. Janet M. Hill, Boston, Mass. 

Chicken and Tapioca Panada. — Put a pint of well-sea- 
soned chicken liquor into a double boiler over the fire. 
When the liquor is hot, add a quarter cup of Slade's Tapioca 
and cook, stirring occasionally, until the tapioca is trans- 
parent. Add one cup of hot cream and one generous cup 
of cold baked or broiled chicken that has been chopped 
fine in a meat chopper. Season with a scant half-teaspoon 
of Slade's Celery Salt, a dash of Slade's Cayenne, and a 
half-teaspoon of finely-chopped parsley. Beat the mixture 
together thoroughly, and when it is hot add very carefully 
the yolks of two eggs slightly beaten. Serve in cups with 
sippets of well-tO£Lsted bread. The yolks of eggs may be 
omitted if desired. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Ijamb and Macaroni, Breck Style. — Chop remnants of 
cold roast lamb and season with salt, Slade's Pepper and 
Slade's Celery Salt; there should be one cup. Put in a 
buttered baking dish and cover with one cup boiled maca- 
roni broken in small pieces and seasoned with salt. Beat 
four eggs slightly and add one and one-half cups milk. 
Pour over the macaroni and dot over with bits of butter, 
using one and one-half tablespoons. Bake in a slow oven 
until firm and slightly browned on the top. — Fannie Mer- 
ritt Farmer, Boston, Mass. 

Lamb Chops, Broiled. — ^Trim the flesh neatly from that 
part of the rib bone which extends upward from the "eye" 
of meat. Remove all superfluous fat around the eye. Wipe 
with a damp cloth and place in a well-oiled broiler. Broil 
from six to ten minutes, according to thickness, ten seconds 
on a side. Spread with maitre d'hotel butter. Cover the 
ends with paper frills, and dispose around a support, hollow 
in the centre. Fill the centre with peas. 

18 



LAMB CHOPS, MAITHE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 
(See Page 18.) 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES WITH PEAS. 
(Sec Page 18.) 



Food Experts, Chemists and PhysicEans who test Slade's 
Spices, Extracts and Food Specialties, testify to their pur- 
ity and excellence. 



(See Page Zl.) 



The better informed- one is the more strenuous to get 
Slade's Spices. 

Maitre d*Hotel Butter. — Cream one-fourth a cup of but- 
ter. Add one-half teaspoon salt, a dash of Slade's Pepper 
and a tablespoon of fine chopped parsley; then, very slowly, 
to avoid curdling, a tablespoon of lemon juice. This sauce 
is appropriate also for beefsteak and broiled fish. — Mrs. 
J. M. Hill, Boston, Mass. 

There is a great difference in flavor between Slade's Pep- 
per and the common pepper frequently sold. 

Turkey, Roasted and StufTed. — Draw, singe, and remove 
pin feathers; wash and wipe the turkey, inside and out; 
rub over with salt inside and out, then fill with stuffing 
and truss neatly. Place strips of salt pork over the breast 
and set into a hot oven. In about twenty minutes, lower 
the heat of the oven and baste the turkey with salt pork 
fat, or dripping, melted in hot water. Cook a ten-pound 
turkey about three hours, or until the joints may be easily 
separated. Baste every ten minutes, dredging with flour 
after each basting. 

Stuffing. — Mix thoroughly one quart of soft bread crumbs, 
a cup of butter, melted in two-thirds cup hot milk or water, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon of Bell's Spiced Poultry 
Seasoning, and a beaten egg. Omit the egg, if the dressing 
is to be eaten hot. A cold dressing slices well, when the 
egg is used. — Janet M. Hill. 

Bell's Spiced Poultry Seasoning is a combination of the 
purest spices and freshest herbs and is unequalled as a 
flavoring for all kinds of stuffings. 

Stewed Kidneys. — 

2 beef kidneys % teapsoonful Slade's 
2 tablespoons butter Cloves 

2 tablespoons flour Juice one-half a lemon 

Soup stock or water 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons mushroom % teaspoon Slade's Pep- 
ketchup per 
H teaspoonful Slade's 
Cinnamon 

Slice the kidneys; remove the fat. Cook three hours 
in a soupstock or water to cover, in a double boiler. Re- 
move the kidneys and any superfluous fat with brown paper. 
Rub butter and flour together and add to stock with the 
remaining ingredients. Cook the kidneys in this sauce 
twenty minutes. — Mary E. Ditson, Allston, Mass. 

Stewed Mutton. — Three pounds of fore quarter of mut- 
ton. Wipe with a damp cloth and remove the pink skin, 
the fine splinters of bone, and as much of the fat as pos- 
sible. Put loosely into a granite stewpan, add enough 
boiling water to cover, and cook very slowly until the meat 

21 



Slade's Pepper has a better flavor than other kinds because 
it is the best cleaned whole pepper powdered perfectly pore. 

is tender. Put with it one medium-sized onion cut Into 
quarters. 

•When it has cooked one hour add one teaspoonful of 
salt and one-fourth saltspoonful of Slade's Pepper. While 
cooking add ; boilingr water to replenish that which has 
boiled away. When the bones will slip out easily remove 
from the fire, take out the largest of the bones, and set it 
away to cool. When the fat is hard, remove every particle 
of it. Put the meat over the fire again, and if the broth 
be too strong, add water to dilute it and add .more seasoning 
if desired. When boiling add, for about one quart of liquid, 
two tablespoonfuls of Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca, boil 
five minutes longer, and serve. 

The meat and broth may be served separately if desired. 
A fowl cut up as for fricassee, or portions of- the fore quar- 
ter of' veal maybe prepared in a similar way, and the broth 
will be delicious thickened with . Slade's Quick Cooking 
Tapioca. — Mrs. M. J. Lincoln. 

Insist upon having Slades* Quick Cooking Tapioca and 
do not accept inferior kinds. 

Veal en Casserole. — Two pounds veal steak cut in indi- 
vidual servings. To one -beaten egge add two tablespoons 
cold water, dip veal in "bread crumbs that have been dried 
and rolled, then in egg and again in crumbs. Saute until 
brown in salt pork fat, place in casserole, cover with a well- 
soasoned tomato sauce or brown srravy and cook slowly 
for 2 hours or more. Serve from the casserole. — Mary 
Macdermaid, Instructor, School Domestic Science, Boston, 
M9.SS. 

Veal Balls en Casserole. — Remove and discard all unedible 
portions from a pound and a half of veal steak. To the 
meat add a thin slice of bacon or fat salt pork, a slice of 
onion, three or four branches of parsley and a chilli pepper, 
freed from seeds; pass these all together through a food- 
chopper; add one-fourth a cup of thick cream, beaten firm, 
a slice of bread, freed from crust, soaked in cold water and 
squeezed dry, a generous half-teaspoonful of salt, one egg 
beaten light and a teaspoonful of Mandalay or similar sauce. 
Mix all together thoroughly, then shape in the hands, into 
balls. Have three or four tablespoonfuls of hot bacon 
fat in a frying pan; roll and cook the balls in the fat until 
seared upon the outside, then dispose in a casserole. Add 
six small onions, parboiled an hour and drained, and six 
quarters of carrots, parboiled half an hour and drained, also 
about a pint of broth or tomato puree or a cup of each and 
half a teaspoonful of salt. Cover and let cook in a moderate 
oven about an hour. Serve from the dish. — Mrs. J. M. 
Hill. 

22 



Slade's Standard — ^Absolute Purity and Superior Excel- 
lence — ^leads to success. Encourage business integrity by 
getting Slade*s Spices, Mustard, Salad Cream, etc. 

CURRIES. 

Curry powder adds a flavor unobtainable otherwise; 
Slade's is the only kind you should use, for most brands 
on the market are adulterated or of poor quality. 

Curry of Chicken. — -Separate a chicken into pieces at the 
joints, dip in water and roll lightly in one-fourth cup of 
flour into which a tablespoon of Slade's Curry Powder 
has been mixed, then saute in hot butter with a thinly- 
sliced onion until lightly colored. Grate a fresh cocoa- 
nut, pour over it a cup of boiling water, let stand half an 
hour, then strain ofC the liquid. Set this aside to add to 
the curry just before sending to the table. Add a second 
cup of boiling water to the grated cocoanut and let stand 
half an hour, then pour the whole into a cheese cloth and 
press out all the liquid possible. Add this last liquid with 
a cup of veal or chicken broth (that made from the neck, 
pinions, back-bone piece and giblets of the chicken cooked 
with slices of onion and carrot and a sprig of parsley will 
do), to the chicken in the pan and let simmer until the 
chicken is tender; add salt as needed, the reserved cup of 
cocoanut milk and one teaspoon of lemon juice. Serve 
with boiled rice in a dish apart. 

Slade's Curry Powder is made from a fine Indian recipe 
— it has the true flavor. 

Curried Potatoes. — Melt two tablespoons butter and cook 
in it a tablespoon of minced onion, add a heaping table- 
spoon flour, a tablespoon Slade's Curry Powder, one-half 
teaspoon salt and a cup of hot milk. Let boil flve minutes, 
strain over one pint of hot cooked potato balls. Serve 
hot. This is excellent with cold meats, ham and bacon. 

Curried Slirimps. — Chop fine one small onion and cook 
until yellow in 1% tablespoonfuls butter; add 1% table- 
spoonfuls flour and % teaspoonful Slade's Curry Powder; 
when smooth add 1^ cups stewed and strained tomato 
and 1 can shrimps broken in pieces. Season with salt and 
Slade's Pepper or Paprika and serve on crackers or toast 
— H. A. Huestis, Boston, Mass. 

All sorts of Curry Powders are sold; good, bad, and in- 
different in quality; always insist upon having Slade's 
and you get the best. 

Curry of Vegetables. — Parboil 10 minutes 1 cup each 
carrot and turnip cut in small cubes. Drain and add 1 cup 
potatoes, cut in larger pieces, ^^ teaspoon salt and boil- 
ing water .to cover well. When vegetables are done, drain 
and add ^^ cup cooked peas. Season with a little salt, 
Slade's Pepper or Paprika and moisten with one cup Curry 
Sauce, as follows: 

23 



**Better than home made" is the verdict after trying 
Slade's Salad Cream. 

Curry Sauce. — Cook together until slightly browned 1 
tablespoon (rounded) butter and two tablespoons onion; 
then add ^ teaspoon Slade's Curry Powder, ^ teaspoon 
salt, speck of Slade's Pepper and Slade's Celery Salt, and 
1 heaping tablespoon flour, when smooth add 1 cup milk; 
cook until thickened, and strain over the vegetables. — H. 
A. Huestis, Demonstrator, Newton, Mass. 
Hawaiian Curry. — 

1 grated cocoanut 1 section dried garlic 

1% pints milk Small piece green ginger 

2 tablespoons butter root 

2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon Slade's Curry 

% large onion Powder 

Add the milk to the grated cocoanut and allow it to stand 
twenty-five minutes. Strain through a thin cloth and 
discard the cocoanut meat. Chop onion and garlic, and 
grate the Ginger Root. Add to melted butter and cook 5 
minutes. Mix flour and Curry Powder and add to the 
melted butter. When thoroughly blended, add milk grad- 
ually and cook slowly until the sauce thickens — ^just before 
serving season with salt. If salt is added at first, it is liable 
to curdle the milk. 

Reheat lobster meat or shrimps in the sauce and serve 
with a border of boiled rice. — Jean Kenrick, Newton, Mass. 

Veal Forcemeat Balls in Curry Sauce. — Pass a pound 
and a half of veal and one-fourth a pound of salt pork 
through a meat chopper; add one and one-half cups of 
cracker crumbs, one and one-half teaspoons salt, one-half 
teaspoon Slade's Pepper, one-half cup cream, milk, stock or 
water, two well-beaten eggs, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Shape into balls; saute the balls with a sliced onion to a 
golden brown on all sides in salt pork fat or butter. Take 
out the balls, add more butter if needed, one-fourth cup 
flour, . two tablespoons Slade's Curry Powder and one-half 
teaspoon salt; when frothy, dilute with about a pint of milk, 
water or stock, let boil, then strain over the balls, which 
should be half covered with the sauce; cover, and let sim- 
mer slowly about forty-five minutes. Serve in the centre of 
a ring of hot boiled rice. — Mrs. J. M. Hill, Boston, Mass. 

Slade's Curry Powder is made from a fine Indian recipe 
— it has the true flavor. 

BGGS. 

Egg Nog (Orange). — Beat white of one egg, until stiff 
and add gradually % tablespoon sugar and juice of % 
orange. Beat yolk of one egg until thick and add gradu- 
ally a few grains salt, ^ tablespoon sugar, juice of % orange 
and % lemon. Fill a glass % full of crushed ice, pour in 
first mixture, add second mixture, mix carefully and serve — - 
Alice Bradley, Cambridge, Mass. 

24 



Slade's Spices and Specialties always satisfy. 

Scrambled Cggs with Tomato and Ham. — Cook together 

1 hk cups strained tomato, % cup soft bread crumbs and 

2 tablespoons butter 3 minutes; drop 4 eggs one at a time 
into the tomato, stir constantly and when it thickens add 
% cup chopped boiled ham. Season with Slade's Paprika 
and add salt if needed. Serve on hot Baking Powder 
biscuit not more than '/& inch thick when baked. — Mrs. Mary 
L. Wade, Atlantic, Mass. 

VEGETABLES. 

The important points in the cooking of vegetables are 
simple; they first should be clean and free from indigest- 
ible portions; second they should be thoroughly cooked 
but not over-done; and lastly they should be seasoned 
suitably, developing rather than disguising the respective 
flavors. 

The methods are similar, for nearly all varieties; there- 
fore, general principles are given rather than specific recipes. 

All vegetables should be washed or scrubbed; then pared, 
peeled, scraped, shelled, husked, or trimmed as needed. 
Beets, potatoes, sprouts, okra and many of the summer 
vegetables are usually cooked whole, but string beans, car- 
rots, parsnips, turnips, onions, squash, and salsify will 
cook more quickly if slivered, sliced, diced or quartered. 

Cook in boiling salted water, enough to cover; use less 
water and but little salt for peas and such as are to be served 
moist; but replenish the water frequently for shell beans, 
large string beans, and others which require long cooking, 
letting it reduce at the last to merely enough for serving. 
The time for cooking will vary with the freshness and text- 
ure, but generally it takes five minutes for sweet corn, twen- 
ty to thirty minutes for most fresh summer vegetables, 
one hour some winter vegetables and several hours for 
dried vegetables. 

When done, drain and mash turnip, parsnip and squash, 
and season with butter, salt and Slade's Pepper. To mashed 
potato and sliced onions add milk, or cream to moisten. 

Drain asparagus, quartered cucumbers and leeks, and 
serve on toast; season with butter, salt and Slade's Pepper, 
or serve in white sauce. 

Serve peas, shell beans and summer carrots in their 
reduced liquor and season with salt, pepper, sugar and 
butter or cream. 

Chop or cut spinach, cabbage, greens, beets and car- 
rots, and add lemon juice, or vinegar, to the usual season- 
ing of butter, salt, and pepper. 

Serve cauliflower, diced turnip, carrot or parsnip in white 
sauce; but do not overdo the white sauce serving, for one 
tires of it if served too frequently. 

25 



That name SIjAD£'S shields you from aU adulteration. 

A bit of Slade's Nutmeg cooked with slivered string 
beans, a little sv/eet green pepper cooked in the white sauce 
for vegetables, a bit of Slade's Soda to sweeten stewed 
tomatoes and to soften cabbage while boiling, a slice of 
cheese laid between the halves of a hot baked potato for 
five minutes before serving, and a mixture of sugar, Slade's 
Cinnamon and butter for baked sliced sweet potatoes are 
suggestions worth remembering. — Mary J. Lincoln, Boston, 
Mass. 

Beets in Sauce. — 

2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons vinegar 

2 tablespoons flour % teaspoon salt 

I'cup water or % teaspoon Slade's Pep- 

1 cup beet water per 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar 6 cups beets 

Melt butter, add flour, stir till smooth, add water and 
cook till thickened, stirring constantly, then add sugar, 
vinegar, salt and Slade's Pepper. Cook beets until tender, 
cut in half-inch cubes. Reheat in the sauce. — Frances 
Lowe Smith, Instructor, School Domestic Science, Boston, 
Mass. 

Tomato Sauce Rellsli. — 

1 peck ripe tomatoes 2 teaspoons Slade's 

2 cups chopped celery Cloves 

2 cups chopped onions 2 teaspoons Slade's 

4 red peppers chopped Cinnamon 

'3 cups sugar 2 teaspoons Slade's 

1 cup salt Pepper 

2 teaspoons Slade's % cup celery seed 
Ground Mace 3 pints vinegar. 

Chop the tomatoes fine, drain and throw away the juice. 
Mix the ingredients thoroughly and put without cooking 
into covered stone jars.— FVances Lowe Smith, Instructor, 
School of Domestic Sience, Boston. 

Potato Timbaleen Surprise.—^ 

2 cups mashed potato 1 egg 

Vfe teaspoon salt % cup cold meat, ham or 
Spk. Slade's Pepper lamb . . ' 

^2 tableapoons butter M cup thick white sauce. 
% cup milk 

•Season mashed potato with salt, Slade's- Pepper and 
butter, ^dd milk slowly and beat thoroughly; add beaten 
egg. The mixture should be firm enough to hold in shape. 
Have ready eight timbale molds, buttered and sprinkled 
with dried crumbs. Fill with potato mixture, take out 
the centre, leaving a narrow wall. Fill centres with meat 
mixed with white sauce, cover with potato, set in oven on 
baking tin 10 minutes. Turn on serving dish. Serve with 
ito sauce. 

26 



That name SliADEI'S stands for SUPERIOR EXCEIiIi£NCE. 

Thick White Sauce. — 

2% teaspoons butter % teaspoon Slade's ' ' 

% cup bread flour Pepper 

Vi teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

Melt butter in top double boiler, add flour, salt and 
Slade's Pepper; stir until smooth. Add milk slowly. Cook 
till thickens. Beat until smooth. — Edna Burso, Worces- 
ter, Mass. 

Squash Puff. — 

2 cups sifted squash 1 tablespoon butter . 

H cup rich milk or thin Slade's Pepper and salt to 

cream taste 

1 egg 

Add the milk, butter, salt and pepper to the squash. 
Beat the egg until light and beat it into the squash. Place 
on a buttered baking dish and brown in the oven. Serve 
at once. — M. C. Jones, Cambridge, Mass. 

Spanish Rice.— - 

1 cup rice M green pepper, seeded 
4 quarts boiling water % red pepper, seeded 

% lb. fat salt pork 1 cup tomato sauce 

H small onion 

Wash rice, rubbing between hands in plenty of cold water 
until the water is no longer starchy. Parboil for 10 minutes 
in the boiling water, adding the grains a few at a time so 
as not to stop the boiling, drain. Chop the pork, place in 
a frying pan in oven until the fat is drawn out. Chop 
onion and peppers and fry to a delicate brown in the fat. 
Place all the ingredients in the top of the double boiler ^ 
add the tomato sauce and cook until the rice is tender. 

Tomato Sauce for Spanish Rice. — 

2 tablespoons butter H cup stock 

2 tablespoons flour Salt and Slade's Pepper 

H cup tomato puree 

Melt .the butter, add flour, and cook until smooth di- 
rectly over fire, add stock, tomato and seasonings. Stir 
and cook over fire until perfectly smooth, then pour over 
rice. — Mary Macdermaid, Instructor, School of Domestic 
•Science, Boston, Mass. 

SAIiADS AND SALAD DRE2SSINGS. 

"Keep as near as ever you can to the first 
sources of supply — fruits and vegetables." 

Salads may be prepared of all kinds of poultry, game, 
meat, fish, oysters, lobsters, eggs, as well as of all kinds 
of greens, of which, changing with the 'season, the choice 
must ;be left to the judgment, fancy and discretl6n efth«» 
mistress of the house: "^ 

a7 



SliADS'S and PURE are synonymous words. 



The same thins is true of the dressings to be used on 
salads — the Judgment of the housewife must be exercised 
to suit the taste of her own household; some like a sharp, 
acid flavoring, some want dressing with oil, others without 
oil; for most palates nothing will be found more pleasing 
than Slade's Salad Cream, which can be purchased at the 
grocer's -all ready for use ; the dressing is prepared from 
the purest, freshest and most wholesome ingredients and 
is free from all preservatives and unhealthful substances. 

French dressing is used for green vegetables, for fruits 
and nuts, and to marinate cooked vegetables, or fish or 
meat for salads. To marinate means to mix thoroughly 
with the ingredients of the salad and allowing the dress- 
ing to remain until the ingredients are thoroughly sea- 
soned with it; the salad should then be carefully drained 
so that the salad cream or mayonnaise may not be diluted 
with the liquid. 

Slade's Salad Cream or dressing is used for meat, fish, 
and some varieties of fruit and vegetables; sometimes alone 
and sometimes after some of the salad ingredients have 
been seasoned with French dressing. 

The green vegetables should be fresh, crisp and cold. 
Salad should be made Just before it is needed, for it loses 
its freshness quickly. 

Cherry Salad. — 

1 pint fresh cherries % lb. filberts 

^ pint Maraschino ^ lb. candied cherries 

cherries 

"~" Blanch the filberts and put into the fresh cherries after 
taking out the stones. Mix all together with the follow- 
ing dressing. Serve in glasses with fancy crackers as a 
dessert. 

Fruit Salad Dressing. — 

Juice of two oranges 1 cup cream 

Juice of two lemons % cup sugar 

2 eggs 

Beat the juice of fruit with eggs; add sugar and boil 
till clear. Whip the cream and stir thoroughly into the 
mixture after it has cooled. Set away to become thor- 
oughly chilled. — M. A. Davis, Worcester, Mass. 

Halibut Salad. — Steam a slice of halibut, first well rubbed 
over with salt, until the flesh easily separates from the 
bone; remove skin and bone and with a fork separate it 
into flakes into attractive pieces, not mincing it too fine to 
have a leftover appearance, add a seasoning of salt, and 
French Dressing to which has been added a few gratings of 
raw onion. When ready to serve pour otS what French 

8S 



Physicians, Chemists, Ck>oks and Housekeepers all testify 
to the purity, wholesomeness and efficient qualities of 
Slade's Baking Powder. 

Dressing: has not been absorbed and arrange in a salad dish 
with alternate layers of fish, cold boiled peas, cucumbers 
cut in cubes and sprinkled with salt and Slade's Salad 
Cream. Garnish with heart leaves of lettuce and serve 
with any kind of sweet pickle or with spiced gooseberry. — 
Katherine Parsons, Lynn, Mass. 

French Dressing.-* 

H teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

^ teaspoonful Slade's Slade's Extract of Onion 

Pepper to taste 

4 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

Mix all together. — ^Katharine Parsons, Lynn, Mass. 

Slade's Salad Cream will be found to be even better 
than home-made. It is made of pure and wholesome in- 
gredients and will be found so pleasing to the taste that 
once tasted you will want Slade's thereafter. 

Green Pea Salad.— 

- 1 quart green peas 2 cucumbers cut in 

1 cup walnut meat cut in cubes 
small pieces 

Mix peas, walnut meat and four tablespoons of Slade's 
Salad Cream together very thoroughly. Serve on lettuce, 
cover with Slade's Salad Cream and garnish with cucum- 
ber cubes. — Miss Bertha M. Babb, Walker Manual Train- 
ing School, Portland, Maine. 

Mock Lobster Salad. — 

2 cups cold boiled halibut 4 hard boiled- eggs, 
1 cup chopped radishes chopped fine 

Slade's Salad Cream 

Mix the halibut, radishes and eggs thoroughly, then add 
enough of Slade's Salad Cream to moisten, arrange on 
lettuce, cover with Slade's Salad Cream and garnish with 
radish roses. — Miss Bertha M. Babb, Walker Manual Train- 
ing School, Portland, Maine. 

Pear and Nut Salad. — Beat the white of one egg slightly, 
add V& tablespoon of lemon juice and ^ tablespoon water. 
Drain carefully canned pears. Take each one and dip 
into the white of egg, then roll in English walnut meats 
chopped fine. Serve on lettuce leaves with Slade's Salad 
Cream. This is also good made with ripe uncooked Bart- 
lett pears. — Mrs. Mary L. Wade, Atlantic, Mass. 

The scientific proportions, the exactness and skill used 
in the preparation of Slade's Salad Cream, ensures to con- 
sumers a better and more uniform salad dressing than they 
could make at homei 

B9 



It Is worth much to know tiiat your sploes ajfe pore —- 
It ooets only the effort of gettAag Slade's. 

Potato Salad. — 

2 cups boiled potatoes cut ^ cup celery cut fine 

in ^ inch cubes 1 small onion chopped 

Marinate with Slade's Salad Cream. Arrange on crisp 
lettuce leaves and sprinkle with chopped meats. — Myrtle 
Ethelyn Robinson, Twentieth Century Cooking School. 

Poinsettia Salad.; — Peel small tomatoes and cut in eighths 
lengthwise, but do not separate the sections at one end. 
Open like flowers on a bed of lettuce. In the centre of 
each, pile a teaspoonful of cream cheese that has been forced 
through . a coarse strainer. 

Serve with Slade's Salad Cream or with French dress* 
ing to which has been added 1 teaspoon each of finely 
chopped green pepper, parsley and chives. — Alice Bradley, 
Cambridge, Mass. 

Spanish Salad. — Cut cream isheese in half -inch cubes; 
cut four canned Spanish pimentos in half-inch squares: 
mix the pieces of cheese and pimentoi together lightly and 
dispose on a bed of heart leaves of lettuce, nicely washed 
and dried. Beat half a. cup of double cream until firm 
throughout; add one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt and half 
a cup of Slade's Salad Cream. Pour the cream mixture 
over the cheese and pimentos and decorate with figures 
cut from a pimento. — ^Mrs. Janet M. Hill, Boston. 

CHAFING PISH KBCIPE3S. 

I 

Ohicken Wiggles. — 

H cup cream H cup celery 

1 cup mlik H cup walnut meats 

1 tablespoon butter H can pe£U3 

2 egg yolks 1 teaspoon salt 
1 cup chicken (salmon or 

lobster) 
Scald the cream and milk in blazer over hot water, add 
^ge yolks well beaten, butter and salt. Cook until it thick- 
ens, add chicken, cut in cubes, peas, which have been 
washed, drained, and celery cut in half-inch pieces. Cook 
until heated through and add nut meats. Serve hot on toast 
triangles. — Edna Burso, Worcester, Mass. 

Welsh Rarebit. — 

1 cup scalded milk 1 teaspoon flour 

14 cup grated cheese 1 teaspoon butter 

^ teaspoon salt Dash Slade's Cayenne 

' U teaspooh Slade'd 1 egg Well beaten 
Mustard 

Scald the nillk ih a double boiler. Beat egg till light — 
feidd cheese, salt and mustard, flour and cayenne. Pour on 
scalded milk, return to the double boiler, cook until it 

80 



A simple shake flavors the cake, when you use Slade's 
Powdered Nutmeg in those sifthig-top tins. 

thickens, add butter. Serve hot on toast points or on 
zephyrettes. — Edna Burso, Worcester, Mass. 
Welsh Rarebit. — 

1 tablespoon butter H teaspoon Slade's Mus- 

2 teaspoons flour tard 

H cup cream or milk H teaspoon Worcester- 

% teaspoon salt shire Sauce 

Few grrains Slade's 3 cups grated cheese 

Cayenne 
Melt the butter in a double boiler^ add flour mixed with 
salt, mustard and cayenne^ stir until smooth, then cream 
or- milk. Cook eight to ten minutes, add cheese, stir until 
melted, then Worcestershire Sauce. Serve on crackers. — 
Mary E. Ditson, Allston, Mass. 

Slade's Mustard will be found to be specially pleasing 
to the palate. 

Baked Halibut. — Buy a thick slice of halibut, about 2 
pounds. Wash it and lay it in a dripping pan on strips of 
salt pork and onion. Season with salt and Slade's Pepper 
and grate over it one small onion and the juice of half a 
lemon. Then cover with buttered bread crumbs and bake 
about one haur. 

It is especially good when served with Hollandaise sauce. 
— Miss Alice M. Williams, Lynn, Mass. 

Deviled Scallops. — Pour boiling water over one pint of 
scallops and let them stand three minutes, drain and cut 
into quarters. Melt two tablespoons butter, add three table- 
spoons flour, % teaspoon salt and a generous seasoning 
of Slade's Cayenne. Blend with the butter until smooth; 
add one tablespoon of lemon juice, % cup thin cream and 
stir until it boils, boil three minutes. Remove from the 
fire and add the yolks of two eggs, beaten smooth and the 
scallops. Put into buttered shells or ramekins, cover with 
buttered crumbs and bake until brown. — Mrs. Mary L. 
Wade, Atlantic, Mass. 

Fillets of Halibut, a la Slade. — ^Wipe two slices halibut, 
each weighing one pound, and cut in eight fillets. Iloll 
each fillet separately, and fasten with a small wooden ske- 
wer. Arrange six thin slices fat salt pork (two and one- 
half inches square) in a. pan, cover with one small onion 
thinly sliced and add a bit of bay leaf. Cream three table- 
spoons butter and add three tablespoons flour. Put fillets in 
pan, mask with cream butter, sprinkle with buttered cracker 
crumbs and arrange three parallel strips of fat salt pork 
on each. Cover with buttered paper for the first eight 
minutes of the baking; then remove the paper to brown 
crumbs and pork. Remove to a hot platter and pour around 
the following sauce: 

31 



Imitations are never as good as tlie genuine. Slacle*s 
Flavoring Extracts are genuine fruit flavors. 

Drain off fat remaining in pan and strain; there should 
be three tablespoons. Add three tablespoons flour and 
stir until well blended, then pour on grradually, while stir- 
ring constanly one and one-half cups rich milk or thin 
cream. Bring to the boiling point, season with salt and 
Slade's Pepper and just before serving add one tablespoon 
butter, bit by bit. — Fannie Merritt Farmer, Boston, Mass. 

Fish With Green Peppers. — 

1% cups cold cooked fish ^ slice onion, or flavor to 

1 cup white sauce • taste with Slade's Ex- 
H small green pepper tract Onion 

Salt and Slade's Pepper" 

Cut a slice from stem end of pepper, remove every seed 
and parboil peppers fifteen minutes. Make a white sauce 
with 1 cup milk, 2 tablesoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
■flour, bit of bay leaf, sprig of parsley, salt and Slade's Pep- 
per to taste, scalding the milk with the parsley and bay leaf, 
cook the onion finely chopped in the butter 3 minutes, or 
flavor with Slade's Onion Extract to taste; add the flour 
when well mingled, the milk, salt, and Slade's Pepper, when 
thickened and smooth add the fish broken Into flakes and 
the green peppers cut into narrow strips; heat thoroguhly, 
and serve with brown bread sandwiches. 

This is easily prepared in the chafing dish, having the 
green peppers previously cooked. — Katherine Parsons, 
Lynn, Mass. 

Much of the so-called Onion Extract is made artificially 
from chemical ethers; Slade's is the true extract of Onions. 

Scalloped Fish. — 

2 cups cold fish; cod, 3 tablespoons butter 
haddock or halibut 3 tablespoons flour 

IH cups milk ^ teaspoon salt 

1 slice onion % teaspoon Slade's Pep- 
Blade of Mace per 

Bit of Bay Leaf % cup buttered crumbs 

Scald the milk with onion, mace and bay leaf. Remove 
seasonings. Melt the butter, add flour, salt and pepper, then 
gradually the milk. Boil three minutes. Put one-half the 
fish in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with salt. and pepper 
and pour over one-half the sauce. Repeat, cover with but- 
tered crumbs and bake until the crumbs are brown in a hot 
oven. — M. E. Ditson, Allston, Mass. 

ScaUoped Scallops. — ^Wash and pick over one pint scal- 
lops. Mix one cup cracker crumbs and one-half cup soft 
bread crumbs and add one-half cup melted butter. Put a 
layer of crumbs in a buttered baking dish, cover with a layer 
of scallops, season with salt and Slade's Pepper and add 

" 32 



It is your money you are spending. Why not insist upon 
having Slade's Extracts? 

three tablespoons cream. Repeat, cover with remaining 
crumbs and bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 
— Fannie Merritt Farmer, Boston, Mass. 

There is a great difference in flavor between Slade's Pep- 
per and the common pepper frequently sold. 

Savory Finnin Haddie. — Soalc Finnin Haddie in milk to 
cover one hour. Bake thirty minutes and separate into 
flakes; there should be two cups. Cook one-half tablespoon 
finely chopped onion and three and one-half tablespoons 
finely chopped green peppers in one-fourth cup butter five 
minutes, stirring constantly. Add one teaspoon salt, one- 
half teaspoon Slade's Paprika and a few grains Slade's Pep- 
per and cook three minutes; then add four tablespoons flour 
and stir until well blended. Pour on gradually; while stir- 
ring constantly one cup each milk and cream. Bring to 
the boiling point and add Finnin Haddie. Turn into a 
buttered dish, cover with buttered crumbs and bake until the 
crumbs are brown. — Fannie Merritt Farmer, Boston, Mass. 

Tartar Sauce for Fried Clams, Scallops and all kinds of 
Fish. — Mix some finely chopped pickles or olives or a mix- 
ture of both with Slade's Salad Cream. Another combina- 
tion preferred by some is finely chopped pickles, capers 
and parsley. 

CAKES AND PIES. 

The secret of success in cake making consists in using the 
best materials and having everything ready so that there 
may be no delays in the process of mixing and baking. The 
fire should be in the right condition so that it will not be 
necessary to cool the oven by adding, fresh coal while the 
cake is baking. The pans should be buttered or lined with 
butter or oilSd paper. The measuring cups, spoons, egg 
beater, etc., and all ingredients, should be all ready to use. 

Always sift the flour before measuring and mix the flour, 
baking powder and all dry ingredients thoroughly together 
before adding the liquids; several sif tings are essential to 
ensure thorough mixing of the ingredients and to assist in 
achieving the best results. 

In making cake, have the butter where it will grow soft 
but not melt; cream the butter, and add the sugar gradually; 
beat the eggs very light and add to the butter and sugar, then 
mix in the flour, in which the baking powder, spices and 
salt have been sifted, and milk" alternately. 

Always use the Slade's Baking Powder and Slade's 
Spices, for thes<? are absolutely pure and extra strong; one 
great cause of failure in cake making is found in the vary- 
ing^ strength of different baking powders and spices. If you 
always use the Slade's Baking Powder and Slade's Spices, 
Cream Tartar, Baking Soda, etc., you can be sure of uni- 

33 



Tell your nelfi^hbor about the superiority of Slade's Flavor- 
ing'^ Extracts, that they may enjoy luxurious living. 

formly good results and avoid all dangers attending the use 
of adulterated goods so often forced upon consumers by 
unprincipled manufacturers and dealers. Alum baking 
powder and bulk cream tartar containing terra alba are 
specially to be avoided as dangerous to health. The only 
protection you can have against adulteration and fraud is to 
insist upon having the brand of goods you know to be pure 
and good; Slade's are always reliable. Do not accept any 
other brand said to be the same thing under another brand 
— ^such are fraudulent — Slade puts up no other brands. 

In all recipes calling for Baking Powder the modern cook- 
ing School method is to use two level teaspoons of Slade's 
Baking Powder to a cup instead of the old way of two 
heaping teaspoons to a quart of flour. 

Never slam the oven door when baking, but open and 
close softly. 
Angel Gakelets. — 

^cup grranulated sugar % teaspoon Slade's Cream 

H cup pastry flour Tartar 

Whites of three eggs 1 teaspoon Slade's Orange 

Extract 
Sift the dry ingredients together and gradually mix into 
the stiffly beaten whites. Add flavoring and drop with a tea- 
spoon upon a pan covered with buttered paper. Bake in a 
moderate oven 10 to 16 minutes. 

This quantity should make two dozen. — Mary E. Ditson, 
Allston, Mass. 
Angel Cake. — 

Whites of eight eggs 1 cup flour 

H teaspoon Slade's Cream Pinch of salt 

Tartar % teaspoon of Slade's 

1% cups of granulated Vanilla 

sugar 
Sift the flour four times before measuring. Add salt to 
eggs, then whip till frothy. Add cream of tartar and con- 
tinue beating until eggs are stift and dry, then add sugar 
grradually. 

Add flavoring and lastly fold the flour lightly and thor- 
oughly through the mixture. Bake 45 minutes in a moder- 
ate oven in an unbuttered angel cake pan. — Anna A. Mur- 
phy, Teacher of Cookery in Worcester, Mass., and teacher in 
the Public Schools of Newark, N. J., during the summer. 

An^l Cake. — Whites ot eight eggs, one cup of sugar, 
one-half cup Slade's Potato Flour, one-fourth teaspoon of 
Slade's Cream of Tartar, salt and flavoring. Beat the 
eggs stiff, then add gradually the sifted sugar, flour, cream of 
tartar and salt. Flavor and bake in an ungreased angel cake 
tin for one hour; do not open the oven door for twenty 
minutes after the cake is in. 

34 



The selection, cleaning and powdering of sploes Is an art 
Over sixty years' experience Is back of Slade's Spices. 

Apple Sauce Cake. — 

1 cup sugrar 1 teaspoon Slade's Cln- 

M cup butter namon 

1 cup unsweetened apple H teaspoon Slade's Cloves 

sauce % teaspoon Slade's Nut- 

1 teaspoon Slade's Soda . meg: 

IH cups flour % teaspoon Slade's 

1 speck salt Allspice 

1 cup raisins, seeded, 
chopped and floured 
Cream the butter and add one-half of the sugar; add the 
remainder of the sugar to the apple sauce and then add that 
to the first mixture. Sift the dry ingredients and add them; 
stir in the prepared raisins last. Bake % of an hour in a 
moderate oven. Frost when cool. 
Frosting.— 

1 cup sugar 1 stiflly beaten white of 

H cup water egg 

Speck of Slade's Cream 1 teaspoon Slade's Vanilla 

Tartar 
Mix the sugar, water and cream tartar; beat slowly, stir 
until it forms a thread when dropped from the spoon. Pour 
slowly over the beaten white of egg» beating as you pour, 
flavor and beat until thick enough to spread. — L. C. Smith, 
Brookline, Mass. 

When people learn the superiority of Slade's flavoring 
extracts they will refuse to accept other kinds. 

Callas. — ^Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, three 
tablespoons water, two teaspoons Slade's Baking Powder, 
a little salt, and any flavor liked. These need a quick oven. 
One tablespoon in a saucer. When done, turn on a napkin, 
and press in the form of a calla lily. Fill with whipped cream 
slightly sweetened and flavored. — Mrs. J. M. Hill, Boston, 
Mass. 
Caramel Cake, FlUlng and Frosting.-— 

Cake. — Cream 4 tablespoons (level) of butter, add % 
cup sugar, 1 large, well beaten egg, H cup milk, IH cups 
flour, 1 teaspoon Slade's Cream Tartar, H teaspoon Slade's 
Soda (or 2^ teaspoons Slade's Baking Powder in place of 
Cream Tartar and Soda). Bake in quick oven in two Wash- 
ington pie tins. 

Filling. — Caramelize M cup sugar in small omelet pan, 
add to 1% cups scalded milk. When the sugar is dis- 
solved, add % cup sugar, mixed with % cup flour and cook 
20 minutes in double boiler. Add beaten yolk of egg, cook 
two minutes, when cool flavor with H teaspoon Slade's Va- 
nilla. Spread between cakes. 

Frosting. — Caramelize ^ cup sugar in small omelet pan, 
add 1 cup granulated sugar, H cup water and boll until 

85 



Indifference and carelessness place a premium upon fraud. 
Be careful to get Siade's Spices and Specialties. 

syrup will thread long threads when dropped from tip of 
spoon. Pour syrup slowly onto the beaten white of egg, beat 
with egg beater until mixed, then beat with spoon until stift 
enough to hold its shape. Spread on cake. — I. R. Jarvis 
(Miss Farmer's School Cookery), Boston, Mass. * 

* €k>coanut Fruit Cake.— ^Cream one-half cup butter; add 
gradually one cup sugar, then the beaten yolks of three 
eggs and, alternately, one-fourth cup milk and one cup 
and a half of flour, sifted with one-half teaspoon Shade's 
soda and two level teaspoons Slade's Cream of Tartar. 
Flavor with one teaspoon of Slade's Lemon Extract or 
a grating of lemon rind; beat in half a grated cocoanut 
and one-half cup of sliced citron, and lastly, the whites 
of two eggrs beaten dry. Bake in a tube pan about forty 
minutes. Ice with a boiled frosting flavored with lemon — 
peel and juice, or extract — adding, also, the rest of the 
cocoanut, grated. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Cocoa Sponge Cake. — 

3 eggs % cup cocoa 

IH cups sugar 2 teaspoons Slade's Bak- 

% cup cold water ing Powder 

1 teaspoon Slade's Vanilla 1 teaspoon Slade's Cin- 

1% cups flour namon 

Beat yolks of eggs light, add water, vanilla and sugrar; 
beat again thoroughly; then add the flour, with which the 
baking powder, cocoa and cinnamon have been sifted. 
Fold in the stifliy beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in a 
rather quick oven twenty-five or thirty minutes. — Myrtle 
Ethelyn Robinson, Twentieth Century Cooking School. 

Cocoa Doughnuts. — One egg, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half cup milk, one-quarter teaspoonful salt, one-quarter 
teaspoon Slade's Cinnamon, two cups flour, one-quarter 
cup Baker's Breakfast Cocoa, two teaspoonfuls Slade's 
Baking Powder. Mix in the order given, sifting the bak- 
ing powder and cocoa with the flour. Roll to one-third 
inch in thickness,' cut and fry. — Myrtle Ethelyn Robinson, 
Twentieth Century Cooking School. 

Chocolate Cake. — One cup sugar, % cup sweet milk, 
one tablespoon butter , (melted), one teaspoonful Slade's 
Vanilla, 1% cups flour^ Cook over the fire two squares 
of chocolate and % cup milk and yolk of one egg until 
thick. -Mix with the other mixture, and add a level tea- 
spoonful of Slade's Soda dissolved in one tablespoonful 
of hot water. — Alice M. Williams, Lynn, Mass. 

Chooolate Pie. — Line a pie plate with paste, prick it .in 
jjeveral placM, and bake a daUcate brown. Scald 1 cup 

86 



Don*t blame the grocer — you are responsible if you accept 
poor stu£f in place of Slade's Spices. -- 

of milk. Mix together ^^ cup sugar, % cup flour, 1 table- 
spoon cold milk and yolks of 2 eggs. Add to this the hot 
milk, cook over water 10 minutes, stirring constantly until 
it thickens; add ^1 tablespoon butter and 1% squares choco- 
late melted. Pour this mixture into the cooked pastry 
and cover with a meringue made of the whites of 2 eggs 
and 4 tablespoons pulverized sugar flavored with % tea- 
spoon Slade's Vanilla. Bake 10 to 15 minutes in a moder- 
ately hot oven. — Mrs. Mary L. Wade, Atlantic, Mass. 

Coffee Spice Cake. — 

% cup butter % teaspoon Slade's 
% cup sugar Cinnamon 

% cup molasses % teaspoon Slade's 
% cup cold coftee Cloves 

1 egg % teaspoon Slade's 

2 cups flour Allspice 

% teaspoon Slade's Soda % cup currants 

Cream the butter, add gradually the sugar, then the egg 
well beaten and molasses. Sift the flour with the spices 
and the soda. Add to the mixture alternating with the 
coffee. Bake in a long cake pan. — Isabelle Osborne. In- 
structor, School of Domestic Science, Boston, Mass. 

Corn Starch Cake. — 

Whites of three eggs % cup butter 

% cup corn starch % cup milk 

1 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

1% teaspoons Slade's 
Baking Powder 

Mix and sJft the flour, corn starch and baking powder. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the milk, then dry in- 
gredients and lastly the stifl^y beaten whites. Frost with 
a chocolate nut frosting, as follows: 

Chocolate Nut Frosting. — 

1 square chocolate % cup nuts 

2 tablespoons boiling 1 cup sugar 
water White one egg 

% teaspoon Slade's 
Extract Vanilla 

Put chocolate, water and 2 tablespoons of sugar into a 
saucepan and boil until smooth. 

Beat the white of the egg and rest of sugar together; 
add to chocolate mixture and boil till thick. Take from 
fire and add Vanilla and the % cup chopped nuts. — M. 
A. Davis,' Worcester, Mass. 

Dutch Apple Cake. — Sift together two cups flour, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon sifted Slade's Soda, 
and two level teaspoons Slade's Cream of Tartar; with 

37 



FM>ple wUl be hnmbnned vntU they leant to aak for 
Slade'fl Sploes and Elztracts. 

the tips of the lingrers work in one-fourth cup butter; beat 
an egg, add a cup of milk, and stir into the dry ingredients; 
turn into a buttered pan, spread evenly and press into the 
top of the dough apples pared and quartered. Sift three 
tablespoons sugar and one of Slade's cinnamon over the top. 
Bake and serve with butter, a hard sauce or a hot pudding 
sauce. Peaches may be used in the place of apples, and 
three level teaspoons Slade's Baking Powder in place of 
soda and cream of tartar. — -Mrs. J. M. Hill, Boston, Mass. 



Fruit CaJce. — 

% cup butter 

% cup sugar 

V^ cup molasses 

^ cup milk 

% teaspoon Slade's 

Cinnamon 
% teaspoon Slade's 

Allspice 
H teaspoon Slade's Mace 
^ teaspoon Slade's 

Cloves 



2 eggs 

2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon Slade's Soda 

H cup raisins, stoned and 

cut in pieces 
H cup chopped figs 
H cup currants 
% cup citron cut in strips 
Grated rind and Juice of 

one lemon 



Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then the 
molasses, eggs well beaten and the fruit. Mix thoroughly, 
then add the milk. Sift together twice flour, soda and 
spices and add to the mixture. Bake in a cake pan in a 
slow oven one and one-half hours. — ^Anna A. Murphy, 
Teacher of Cookery in Worcester; also Teacher in Summer 
Schools of Cookery at Newark, N. J. 



Fruit Cake. — 

2 cups butter 
2 cups sugar 

5 eggs 

2 cups molasses 

2 % cups sweet milk 

6 cups flour 

1 teaspoon Slade's Soda 

2 teaspoons Slade's 
Cream Tartar 

1 teaspoon Slade's 
Cinnamon * 



1 teaspoon Slade's Mace 

1 teaspoon Slade's Cloves 
(scant) 

M teaspoon Slade's 
Nutmeg 

2 cups Sultana raisins 
2 cups currants 

2 cups citron 

2 cups chopped dates 



Put together like an ordinary cake mixture. Steam four 
hours in a brick loaf bread pan. This quantity will make 
three loaves. — Mary Macdermaid, Instructor, School of 
Domestic Science, Boston, Mass. 

In place of Cream Tartar and Soda you can use three 
teaspoons Slade's Baking Powder. 



38 



Don't complain — ^throw away the poor stuff, and erer 
after get Slade's, wlilch you know to be pure and good. 

Gingrerbread . — 

2 cups flour % cup melted butter, or 

% teaspoon Slade's M cup chicken fat and 

Ginger % teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon Slade's 1 teaspoon Slade's Soda 

Cinnamon ^ cup molasses 

% cup susrar H cup water 

Mix and sift dry ingrredients. Add molasses and water 
slowly beating constantly till smooth. Add shortening 
and beat well. Pour into a well-greased small shallow 
pan and bake in a moderate oven about 25 minutes. — Anna 
A. Murphy, Teacher of Cookery in Worcester, Mass., and 
in the Summer Schools of Newark, N. J. 

Ginger Puffs. — Beat one egg, and % cup sugar, H cup 
molasses, 4 tablespoons butter and % cup warm water. 
Add 2 cups flour mixed and sifted with one teaspoon each 
of Slade's Cinnamon, Ginger and Soda and ^ teaspoon salt. 

Combine mixtures and bake in small buttered pans. — 
I. R. Jarvis. 

Ijemon Pie Filling. — Line two small pie plates with plain 
paste and fill with the following mixture: 

Yolks 3 eggs H cup milk 

1 cup sugar 5 teaspoons pounded and 
Speck salt sifted cracker crumbs 
Juice and rind of one 

lemon 

Beat egg yolks until light, add Juice and rind of one lemon, 
sugar and salt. When thoroughly blended, combine with 
cracker crumbs which have been added to cold milk. Bake 
without an upper crust until the filling is thick and the 
pastry thoroughly cooked. Cover with the beaten whites 
of three eggs combined with three tablespoons of sugar and 
bake In a very moderate oven until the meringue is brown. 

The pounded cracker crumbs which are used for thick- 
ening in plape of cornstarch make this lemon filling very 
delicate. — Jean Kenrick, Newton, Mass. 

Hamlets. — 

Scant % cup butter 1 cup raisins, chopped 

1% cups sugar 2 teaspoons Slade's 

2 eggs Cinnamon 
2 tablespoonfuls sour milk Flour to roll 
t teaspoon Slade's Soda 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then the 
eggs beaten light and the cinnamon, then the sour milk 
and raisins. Sift the soda with one cup of flour and add 

39 



A little of Slade's Spice is better than a great quantity of 
poor stuff. 

that and enough more flour to make them stiff enough to 
rolL 

Sweet milk may be used. Keep the dough as soft as 
you can possibly roll it. — Alice M. Williams, Lynn, Mass. 

Maple Walnut Cream Cake. — 

H cup butter 1 teaspoon Slade's Vanilla 

% cup sugar 1% cups flour 

Whites of two eggs 2 % teaspoons Slade's 

% cup milk Baking Powder 

Cream the butter and sugar and add milk, Vanilla and 
flour mixed and sifted with the baking powder, mix and 
beat thoroughly. Fold in whites beaten stiff. Bake in 
round shallow pans lined with paper and buttered. When 
cold trim, fill with maple frosting, sprinkle over % cup 
walnut meats cut in small pieces. Cover the top and sides 
with frosting. 

Maple Frosting. — 

1 cup Maple Syrup Whites of two eggs, 

beaten stiff 

Boil syrup until it threads, pour slowly into the eggs, 
beating constantly until thick enough to spread. — Miss 
Bertha M. Babb, Walker Manual Training School, Port- 
land, Maine. 

Molasses Drop Cakes. — 

1 cup molasses ^ teaspoonful Slade's 
% cup shortening, melted Ginger 

% cup milk % teaspoonful Slade's 
1% cups bread flour Cloves 

1 teaspoonful Slade's Soda M teaspoonful Slade's 

Cinnamon 

Mix the molasses and shortening, add milk and flour, 
mixed and sifted with the soda and spices. Beat until 
smooth. Bake in gem pans. — Bertha M. Babb, Walker 
Manual Training School, Portland, Maine. 

Molasses Doughnuts. — 

2 eggs % teaspoonful Slade's 
% cup sugar Gfnger 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon Slade's 
1 cup thick sour milk Cinnamon 

% teaspoonful salt 2 teaspoons Slade's Soda 

' 1 cup flour 

Beat the eggs until very light, add sugar, molasses, sour 
milk and flour mixed and sifted with spices, salt and soda. 
Add enough more flour to make a soft dough. 

Roll on floured board, shape and fry in hot fat. — Bertha 
M. Babb, Walker Manual Training School, Portland, Me. 

^ 40 



Slade's Spices and Specialties are all pure, always pure 
and pure in all ways. 

Nut liayer Calce. — Cream one-half cup butter. Add grad- 
ually one and one-half cups sugar, then one-half cup milk, 
one teaspoon Slade's Vanilla, two and one-fourth cups 
flour, sifted with one-fourth teaspoon Slade's Soda and three- 
fourths teaspoon Slade's Cream of Tartar. Lastly, fold in the 
whites of five eggs. Spread in two layer-cake pans. Press 
halves of English walnuts into the top of one of the layers, 
to make lengthwise rows of nut meats. Sprinkle the whole 
with granulated sugar, and bake about twenty minutes. 
Put the layers together with 

Chocolate Nut Frosting. — Boil one cup sugar and half a 
cup of water until it forms a thread when tried with a 
spoon. Pour in a fine stream, beating constantly, on to 
the beaten yolks of two eggs. Then pour this mixture 
on to a square of melted chocolate, add the chopped meats 
remaining from a pound of unshelled nuts, and one-half 
teaspoon Slade's Vanilla, and beat until cold enough to 
spread. — Mrs. J. M. Hill, Boston. 

Oatmeal Drop Cookie@. — 

V% cup butter 1 teaspoon Slade's Soda 

1 "cup light brown sugar % teaspoon salt 

2 eggs % teaspoon Slade's Cin- 
4 tablespoons milk namon 

2 cups rolled oats % teaspoon Slade's 

1 cup raisins • Cloves * 

1 cup chopped nut meats % teaspoon Sladc^'s 

1 cup flour Nutmeg 

Sift dry ingredients together. Cream butter, ad<J sugar, 
eggs well beaten, milk,- flour, fruit and rolled oats. Beat 
well, drop by spoonfuls one inch apart on a buttered sheet. 
Bake in a moderate oven. — Frances ILiOwe Smith, Instructor 
School of Domestic Science, Boston, Mass. 

When the convenience and superior excellence of Slade's 
Powdered Nutmeg becomes generally known, everybody 
will want it. 

Orange Shortcake. — Cream one-third cup butter; add 
gradually one cup granulated sugar, then the yolks of ten 
eggs beaten until light-colored and thick; now add, alter- 
nately, one-half cup milk and one and three-fourths cups 
flour, into which three teaspoons Slade's Baking Pow- 
der have been sifted. Bake in two shallow tins lined with 
buttered paper. Slice eight or ten oranges, sprinkle with 
sugar, and arrange between the layers and around the 
cake. Sprinkle the top of the cake with powdered sugar 
and garnish with sections of orange, from which the mem- 
brane has been removed; or instead of the sugar use a 

Boiled Frosting. — Boil one cup granu Fated sugar and one- 
half cup water until the syrup threads from the end of a 

41 



It is a mistake to take any other Inrand than Slade's. 

spoon; then pour in a fine stream onto the white of one 
large or two small eggs, beaten until foamy but not dry; 
beat until cool, standing in a dish of cold water, then pour 
upon the cake. Spread evenly at once and decorate as 
before. — Mrs. J. M. Hill, Boston, Mass. 
Orange and Pineapple Shortcake. — 

2 cups bread flour ^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter 1 can shredded pineapple 

1 cup milk 4 oranges 

4 tablespoons Slade's 
Baking Powder 
Cut the oranges in small pieces, mix with pineapple, 
sweeten to taste and let it stand an hour. 

Sift the flour, salt and baking powder. Cut in the butter 
with a knife, then add milk. This will flll two round shallow 
cake tins. Put half the fruit between the layers and the 
rest on the top.— -M. A. Davis, Worcester, Mass. 

Slade's Baking Powder has been on the market for 
over 60 years. If it had not possessed superior merits, it 
would have been driven from the market a generation agcr. 
Quick Ijoaf Cake. — 

1 cup butter 2 eggs 

2 cups sugar 3 cups bread flour 

IH cups milk 2 teaspoons Slade's Bak- 

1 cup cooked potato yeast ing Powder 

1 teaspoon S]ade's Nut- 
meg 
Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then well 
beaten eggs, and yeast. Sift the flour, nutmeg and bak- 
ing powdfer together and add to cake mixture alternately 
with the milk. One cup of seeded raisins and % cup citron 
cut fine may be added if desired. Bake in loaves one hour. 
This makes two loaves. — Isabelle Osborne, Instructor, 
School of Domestic Science, Boston, Mass. 
Raisin Pie. — • 

1 cup cranberries, cut In % cup hot water 

pieces 1 teaspoonful Slade's 

% cup raisins chopped Vanila 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoonful butter 

4 tablespoonfuls flour 
Mix the sugar and flour, add to the hot water, then add 
cranberries and raisins. 

Cook for a few minutes, remove from flre and add Slade's 
Vanilla. Line a plate with paste, add the fllling, dot over 
with the butter, cover with strips of paste and bake. — 
Miss Bertha M. Babb, Walker Manual Training School, 
Portland, Maine. 

Rocks. — Cream % cup butter, add % cup sugar, 2 well- 
beaten eggs, % teaspoon Slade's Soda dissolved in % table- 
spoon hot water, 1% cups flour mixed and sifted with H 

42 



Like t]ie mark "stearling** on sUver, the name SIADE'S 
gruarantees grenulne quality. 

teaspoon Slade's Cinnamon, % teaspoon Slade's Allspice, 

% teaspoon of salt, % teaspoon Slade's Vanilla. Add % lb. 

of dates, stoned and chopped fine', % lb. of walnuts cut in 

large pieces. 

Drop from a teaspoon on an inverted buttered dripping 

pan, one inch apart and bake as cookies. — I. R. Jarvis. 
^ Spice Cake.^- 

1 % cup butter % cup raisins 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon Slade's Cin- 

2 eggs namon 

% cup sour milk % teaspoon Slade's 

M cup molasses Cloves 

H teaspoon Slade's Soda % teaspoon Slade's 

2% cups pastry flour Allspice 

% cup currants 
Sift the dry ingredients together. Dust the fruit with a 
little of the flour. Cream the butter, add sugar, cream 
again, add eggs well beaten, molasses and sour milk. Add 
flour gradually, beat well, bake in patty pans in a moder- 
ate oven. — Prances Lowe Smith, Instructor, School of Do- 
mestic Science, Boston, Mass. 

For making all kinds of cake, there is nothing which 
excels the Slade's Baking Powder. It is absolutely pure, 
wholesome, and the highest possible strength, Ask your 
grocer for Slade's Baking Powder. 
Spice Cake. — 

% cup sugar % teaspoonful Slade's 

% cup butter Cinnamon 

^ 2 eggs % teaspoonful Slade's 

^ cup molasses Allspice 

H cup milk % teaspoonful Slade's 

1 teaspoonful Slade's Cloves 

Vanilla 2% teaspoonfuls Slade's 

1% cups flour Baking Powder 

1 tablespoonful cocoa 
Cream the butter and sugar together, add to the well- 
^ beaten eggs and beat together until very smooth, add 

molasses, milk and vanilla and the flour mixed and sifted 
with the spices, cocoa and baking powder, beat very thor- 
oughly. Bake in a shallow buttered and papered pan 
about 30 minutes. — Bertha M. Babb, Walker Manual Train- 
ing School, Portland, Maine. 

Spice Cake. — Cream 6 level tablespoons butter, add % 
cup white sugar, add 1 egg well beaten, % cup sweet milk 
in which % teaspoon Slade's Soda has been dissolved, 
1 % cups flour mixed and sifted with % teaspoon each of 
Slade's Cinnamon and Cloves. Bake in a loaf. One- 
half cup of raisins cut In quarters and % cup walnut meats 
broken In pieces may be added. — I. R. Jarvis. 

43 



Slade's Flavoring Extracts are as high grade as money 
and skill can make them. 



Sour Milk Doughnuts. — 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon Slade's Baking 

2 eggs Powder 

1 cup sour milk ^ teaspoon Slade's Nut- 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, meg 

melted % teaspoon Slade's Cin- 

1 teaspoon Slade's Soda namon (if desired) 

1 teaspoon salt 4 cups bread flour. Omit 

butter if cream is used. 
Beat eggs, add sugar, sour milk and butter. Sift to- 
gether flour, soda, salt, baking powder and spices, add to 
the egg mixture, turn on to well-floured board, knead slight- 
ly, rolling out about % of the mixture at a time,- Cut into 
shape with doughnut cutter and fry in deep fat. Drain 
on brown paper and roll in sugar. — Katherine M. Parsons, 
Lynn, Mass. 

Do not make the mistake of allowing anyone to talk 
you into using a doubtful baking powder; your health 
is too valuable to be trifled with. Tell your grocer you 
must have Slade's Baking Powder, which is known to 
be absolutely pure and free from all unhealthful ingredi- 
ents. 

Sponge Cake. — One-half cup Slade's Potato Flour, one- 
half teaspoon Slade's Baking Powder, four eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately, one cup sugar, a little salt. 
Mix the baking powder, flour and salt thoroughly together. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, add the flour 
and baking powder, then the well-beaten whites of the eggs; 
flavor to suit taste. Bake at once in a quick oven. This 
makes a delicious sponge cake that is even better the second 
day than the first. 
Squash Pie. — 

1 cup stewed and sifted ^ teaspoonful Slade's 

squash . Ginger 

1 pint milk, scalded % teaspoonful Slade's 

3 crackers, rolled fine and Cinnamon 
sifted % teaspoonful salt 

% cup sugar 

Mix squash, milk and cracker crumbs together, then 
add sugar mixed with the spices and salt. Line a deep pie- 
plate with paste, fill with the squash mixture and bake in 
a moderate oven. — Miss Bertha M. Babb, Walker Manual 
Training School, Portland, Maine. 

Strawberry Sortcake. — Sift together three cups pastry 
flour, one teaspoon salt, and six level teaspoons Slade's 
Baking Powder; with the tips of the fingers, well floured, 
work into the mixture one-third cup butter; mix with about 
one and one-half cups milk and water combined, to a soft 
dough; spread in two buttered pans, smoothing the dough 

— 44 



''I never saw its equal/' said a housekeeper of Slade*s 
Kxtraet of Lienion. 

with a knife or spoon. When baked, butter the under 
crust of each generously and put together with two bas- 
kets of strawberries that have been standing mixed with 
two cups granulated sugar an hour or more. The berries 
between the crusts and part of those on top may be sliced 
or mashed if desired. Beat a cup of double cream and 
two tablespoons powdered sugar until stiff to the bottom 
of the bowl. Use this to decorate the top of the short- 
cake, putting it on with a forcing bag and star tube. Or 
sprinkle the top of the berries with powdered sugar, and 
serve with cream from a pitcher. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Slade's Baking Powder has been on the market for 
over 60 yers. If it had not possessed superior merits, it 
would have been driven from the market a generation ago. 
Strawberry Shortcake (Individual). — 

1 pint pastry flour 1% box berries 

4 teaspoons Slade's Bak- 1 cup or more of sugar 

ing Powder % pint thin cream 

% teaspoon salt M cup sugar 

3 tablespoons butter % teaspoon Slade's 

% to % cup milk Vanilla 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients and cut the butter in 
with a knife. Add gradually enough milk to make a soft 
dough (from % to % cup). Roll out % inch thick. Cut 
with a biscuit-cutter, and bake in a hot oven from 10 to 
20 minutes. Wash, hull, and slightly mash the berries, 
set in a warm place, and add a cup or more of sugar to 
sweeten the berries to taste. Whip the cream, sweeten and 
flavor. 

When the little cakes are done, split, butter, put berries 
between and on top, and garnish with the whipped cream. 
— L. C. Smith, Brookline, Mass. 
Strawberry Shortcake. — 

2 cups bread flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

4 teaspoons Slade's Bak- % cup of butter 

ing Powder % cup milk 

% teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients twice. Work in the 
butter with the tips of the fingers and add enough milk, 
gradually, to make as soft a dough as possible and still 
one that will not stick to the floured board when it is tossed 
about. Divide the dough in two parts and roll out each 
half to fit a round layer-cake tin which has been well 
greased. Bake in a hot oven 10 or 15 minutes. Butter the 
under crust and spread with sweetened mashed berries. 
(Use one cup of sugar to a box of berries). Cover the top 
with sifted powdered sugar or cover the top with halved 
berries and Sprinkle generously with powdered sugar, or 
ooY^r th« top with whipped cream, which should be sweet- 

46 



Slade'8 Orange EMract has a richnefls of flavor lacldn^ In 
some other brands. 

ened first with a heaping tablespoon of powdered sugar and 
^ teaspoon of Slade's Vanilla. — Anna A. Murphy, Teacher 
of Cookery in Worcester, Mass., and Teacher in the Public 
Schools of Newark, N. J., during the summer. 

Tea Oake. — 

2 eggs, reserving white of % cup butter 

one 2 cups fiour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons Slade's Baking 
H cup milk Powder 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and cream the two to- 
gether. Add the beaten egg. Sift the flour and baking 
powder together and add alternately . with the milk. Bake 
in two or three layers about 26 minutes. 

Filling. — Beat the reserved white of the egg very- stiff, 
add % cup of sugar and beat again, add H cup fresh straw- 
berries, crushed to a pulp and beat until stiff. Pile on 
top and fill between the cakes. Raspberries are as 
delicious as strawberries, also peaches may be used. — M. 
C. Jones, Cambridge, Mass. 

PUDDINGS AND DAINTY DCSSERTS. 

In selecting a dessert the question of its wholesomeness 
should be considered, and in Slade's Tapioca is found an 
article from which can be made the most delicious desserts, 
the healthful qualities of which cannot be questioned. 

Dr. B. F. Warner, of New York, says: The keenest- witted 
housewife is sometimes deceived by the attractive features 
which are intentionally presented to cover up deficiency in 
quality; the trained appetite of the epicure may, upon occa- 
sions, lead him astray, but the cold and impartial scientific 
tests of the chemical laboratory are unerring, and may be 
depended upon as being correct. Such tests demonstrate 
most effectually the utmost purity and wholesomeness of 
Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca. Such tests show that this 
product is as acceptable on account of the nutrition it con- 
tains as it is desirable judged from the standpoint of the 
epicure, who must regard it highly for reasons of its 
toothsomeness, which wins the appetite even as its intrinsic 
healthful qualities win praise from the scientific investigator 
Who makes it the subject of examination. 

It is not always that the provident housewife who conscl- 
efltiOUsly caters to the family and the seeker after gustatory 
delights can stand upon the same plane with the hygienist 
and the three unite in praise of the same food article— an 
article which, viewed from the standpoint of either, is all 
that can starid together upon common ground, for whether 
viewed by the light of kitchen wisdom, judged by the culti- 
vated taste of the epicure or considered as a "subject" by 

46 



Slade's Vanilla is made from the best selected Mexican 
Vanilla Beans— for true delicious Vanilla flavor it is 
uneaqualled. 

the analyst in his laboratory; from either or all of these 
points of view no better, purer, more* appetizing: or more 
wholesome food product could be asked than Slade's Quick 
Cooking Tapioca. In every essential feature it is most 
excellent. 

Apple Roll, Ijemon Sauce. — 

2 cups flour % cup milk 

4 teaspoons Slade's Baking 1 cup chopped apple 

Powder 3 tablespoons sugar 

% teaspoon salt % teaspoon Slade's Cin- 
2 tablespoons butter namon 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Work in the butter with 
the tips of the fingers; add gradually the milk, mixing with 
a knife to a soft dough. Put on a floured board and roll 
to one-fourth inch thickness, brush over with melted butter, 
and sprinkle with apple, sugar, and cinnamon. Roll like a 
jelly roll; cut off pieces three-fourths inch in thickness. 
Place on a buttered pan flat side down and bake in hot oven 
fifteen minutes. Serve with Lemon Sauce. 

Iiemon Sauce. — 

% cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

% cup water Dash of Slade's Nutmeg 

2 teaspoons butter ♦ 

Make a syrup by boiling sugar and water five minutes; 
remove from fire; add butter, lemon juice and nutmeg. — 
Mary E. Ditson. 

It is surprising how many cooks persist in buying whole 
nutmeg when they can get the absolutely pure powdered 
nutmeg in sifting top tins all ready for use, by asking their 
grocer for Slade's Nutmeg; there i:i no waste to throw away. 

Aprioot and Tapioca Trifle. — Put the juice from a can 
of apricots into a double boiler with sufficient boiling water 
to make one quart in all. Cook in this three-fourths of a 
cup of Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca until the tapioca is 
tansparent, adding meanwhile three-fourths of a cup of su- 
gar. Put the apricots into a serving dish and pour the tapi- 
oca over them. Serve hot or cold with cream and sugar. 
Other fruit may be used in the same way. Sliced bananas are 
particularly good, but these should be stirred into the tapioca 
mixture before it is removed from the fire, as even a slight 
cooking renders the banana more easily digested. Add the 
juice of two lemons with the banana. If peaches be used 
fiavor with a half-teaspoonful of Slade's Mixed Spices, or 
with lemon Juice. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

47 



A reputation won by over 60 years of honest dealing Is 
back of Slade's Spices and Extracts. 



% teaspoon Slade's 

Allspice 
% teaspoon Slade's Cloves 
1 tablespoon melted 

butter 



Boiled Cracker Pudding. — 

1 quart milk 

1 pint pounded crackers 

2 eggs 

^ cup molasses 
1 cup seeded raisins 
1 teaspoon Slade's Cin- 
namon 

Add cracker crumbs to milk. Beat eggs until light, add 
salt and spices and combine with the crackers and milk mix- 
ture. Add molasses, raisins and melted butter and stir until 
thoroughly blended. Tie the mixture carefully in a heavy 
floured pudding bag. Place on a rack in a kettle of boiling 
water, cover and boil 2% hours. Serve with hot pudding 
sauce. 

Pudding may be steamed in a tin mould instead of boiling 
it in a pudding bag. It is more satisfactory if It is boiled 
in the bag. — Jean Kenrick. 



Caran&cl Tapioca Cream. — 

2 tablespoons Slade's 

Pearl Tapioca 
1 pint milk 
Yolk 2 eggs 
% teaspoon Slade's Vanilla 



% cup sugar 
% teaspoon salt 
Whites 2 eggs 
2 tablespoons sugar, 
caramelized 



Cover the Tapioca with hot water and let it stand to ab- 
sorb the water. Caramelize the sugar and dissolve it in the 
milk. Add this to the Tapioca and let it cook in a double 
boiler until Tapioca is done. Beat the yolks of the eggs, 
add the sugar and salt and pour over them the milk. Cook 
like a soft custard. When creamy, remove from the heat 
and beat in the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Serve cold. — M. C. Jones, Cambridge, Mass. 



Baked Indian Pudding. — 

1 cup Indian meal 

2 tablespoons flour 
% teaspoon salt 

2 quarts milk 

1 cup molasses 

% cup finely chopped suet 



1 cup sugar 

3 eggs 

1% teaspoons Slade's 

Cinnamon 
1 teaspoon Slade's Ginger 
1 cup raisins, if desired. 



% cup butter 

Scald one quart of the milk and stir into it the meal, flour 
and salt. While hot stir in the molasses, chopped suet, and 
butter. Let this mixture get cold, then add the sugar, well 
beaten eggs, one quart of cold milk and spices. Bake in a 
moderate oven three hours. — Isabelle Osborne, Instructor 
School of Domestic Science, Boston, Mass. 



48 



A delicious padding can be made in a few minutes by the 
use of Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca. 

Slade's Ginger is selected ginger root powdered absolutely 
pure; it is of superior strength and flavor. 

Baked Tapioca Pudding. — Scald one quart of milk. Put 
Into^ it one-third cup Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca; stir 
until transparent, about five minutes. Stir in one-half tea- 
spoon salt and one tablespoon butter. Let it cool slightly; 
beat one egg with half a cup sugar and half a teaspoonful 
Slade's Cinnamon and stir into the Tapioca. Turn into a 
pudding dish and bake about twenty minutes, or until It 
puffs up and is brown. To be eaten hot with butter or cold 
with cream. — Mrs. Mary J. Lincoln, Culinary Editor of 
"American Kitchen Magazine." 

Banana and Tapioca Charlotte. — Cook one-third cup of 
Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca in a pint of boiling water 
until the mixture is smooth and transparent; add one cup of 
banana pulp (three or four bananas peeled and pressed 
through a potato-ricer or sieve), one-fourth cup of lemon 
juice and one cup of sugar. When the mixture Is thoroughly 
scalded, remove it from the fire and fold into it the stiffly 
beaten whites of three eggs. Line a glass serving dish with 
lady fingers or macaroons and turn the mixture into it. Add 
one-fourth cup of milk and two tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar to cup of thick cream and beat until stiff with an egg- 
beater. Use the cream as garnish for the top of the char- 
lotte. A pastry bag and rose tube will be found convenient 
In garnishing with whipped cream. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Caramel Pudding. — Scald 4 cups milk, Caramelize H cup 
sugar and add slowly to the milk; when sugar is dissolved 
in milk, add 2 cups stale bread crumbs (coarse) and let 
soak 30 minutes. 

Beat 2 eggs slightly, add % cup sugar, % teaspoon salt 
and 1 teaspoon Slade's Vanilla. Add to first mixture, turn 
into buttered baking dish and bake slowly one hour. Serve 
with sugar and cream. — I. R. Jarvis. 

Cherry Tapioca Pudding. — Made same as the peach, with 
butter left out. 

Coffee Tai^oca Cream. — Put one pint of breakfast coffee 
over the fire in a double boiler. (The coffee left from break- 
fast will do, if it was poured from the grounds before It was 
taken to the breakfast room.) When hot, add three level 
tablespoonfuls of Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca, and cook 
until the tapioca is tansparent. Beat the yolks of two eggs, 
add half a cup of sugar and one-fourth a taspoonful of salt, 
and beat again; dilute with a little of the hot tapioca, and 
stir into the contents of the double boiler. When the mix- 
ture has thickened fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the 
egg. Serve the cream very cold. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. • 

49 



The a4]ditlon of Slade's Gurry Powder to the gravy will 
make a stew a new dish. 



CJoffee Cream.— 

1 cup strong coffee 1 tablespoon gelatine 

1 cup cream (thin) % cup cold water 

3 eggs ^ cup sugar 

Scald coffee and cream in double boiler. Soften gelatine 
in cold water and add to hot cream. Add the beaten yolks 
and sugar; cook two minutes. Cool, add the stiffly beaten 
whites and beat the mixture in ice water till it begins to 
stiffen. Serve with whipped cream. — M. A. Davis, Worces- 
ter, Mass. 

Custard Indian Pudding. — Put into top of double boiler 2 
cups milk and 3 level tablespoons corn meal; steam 1% 
hours, stirring occasionally. Then remove and add % 
cup milk (cold), one tablespoon butter and % cup raisins. 

Mix two eggs with a scant V4 cup brown sugar, hi tea- 
spoon Slade's Ginger, % teaspoon Slade's Cinnamon, and 
% teaspoon salt. Add to the first mixture, and pour into 
baking dish and bake slowly until firm like a custard and 
browned. Serve plain or with a hard sauce made with brown 
sugar instead of white or powdered sugar. — H. A. Huestis, 
Boston, Mass. 

Slade's Cinnamon is a blend of high-grade cassias so 
as to produce a strength and flavor superior to common 
cinnamon or cassia. 

Fig and Ginger Pudding.-^ 

3 lbs. chopped figs 1 lb. crystalized ginger 

9 cups water 4 cups sugar 

1 teaspoon Slade's Ginger 

Cut the crystalized ginger in %-inch pieces. Slowly 
boil all together on the back of the - stove for six hours, 
stirring frequently to prevent sticking. 

Delicious as a summer dessert. Serve with whipped cream 
into which chopped nuts have been stirred. — M. A. Davis, 
Worcester, Mass. 

Fruit and Tapioca Pudding. — Pour one quart of boiling 
water over one cup Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca and 
let it cook in the double boiler for five minutes, or until 
traiisparent. Add half a teaspoon salt. Core and pare 
seven tart apples. Put them in a round baking dish and 
fill the core cavities with sugar and the juice of one lemon. 
Pour the tapioca over them and bake slowly until the apples 
are soft and of a deep red color. Serve hot or cold, with 
sugar or cream. Peaches cut in halves may be used the 
same way. — Mrs. Mary J. Lincoln, Author of Boston Cook 
Book. 

^German Tapioca Pudding. — Scald one quart of milk in 
the double boiler, and cook in it half a cup of Slade's Quick 

60 



Leading Cooking School Teachers tell their puplla 
the beat reaulta In fiavoring food ore attained by the ui 
BLADE'S Splcei and Extracts. 



STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 
(See pages 41-4S.) 

It 1b the flavor ot the food that marka the dlfterence 
between delicious dishes and the distasteful ones. 

Slade'B Splcea and FlavorinK Extracts ensure the best 



It Is folly to accept poor trash when you pay the price of 
Slade's. . Slade's Extract of Vanilla is best and goes farthest. 

Cooking Tapioca about five minutes, or until transparent. 
Stir in half a teaspoonful of salt and one teaspoonful of 
butter; beat two eggs with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
stir them quickly and thoroughly into the tapioca, and 
just as soon as the egg has a cooked look, turn into the 
dish for serving. Mix half a teaspoonful of Slade's Cinna- 
mon with half a cup of sugar, and pour it over the pudding. 
Put one tablespoonful of butter cut into bits on the sugar. 
If this be done while the pudding is warm, by the time 
you are ready for the second course the butter and sugar 
will have melted and formed a delicious sauce for the pud- 
ding. To be served warm. — Mrs. M. J. Lincoln. 

One of the most pleasing of spices is cinnamon or cassia, 
yet there Is no spice in which the quality varies more; the 
only way to be sure to get the absolutely pure and best 
quality is to insist upon having Slade's in sealed packages. 
Avoid bulk and adulterated spices. 

Oatmeal Pudding.^ — ^Use three cups apples, pared, cored 
and cut into eighths; one cup rolled oats, 2 tablespoons 
butter, H cup sugar, ^ cup seeded raisins, H teaspoon 
Slade's Cinnamon, % teaspoon salt, one cup milk. 

Butter a pudding dish, put into it half the apples, d,dd 
half the butter, sugar, raisins, Slade's Cinnamon and salt. 
Sprinkle over this one-third the rolled oats, then add the re- 
mainder of the apples, butter, sugar, raisins, cinnamon and 
salt; cover with the remainder of rolled oats and pour on the 
milk. Bake in a moderately hot oven one hour, cover 
the dish the first half-hour. — Mrs. Mary L. Wade, Atlantic, 
Mass. 

Orange Sago. — To two cups cold water add one cup 
Slade's Sago, let it soak until the water is all absorbed; 
then add another cup of boiling water and cook until the 
sago is clear; have ready four oranges sliced and cut in 
small pieces; sprinkle with sugar while the sago is hot; 
pour it over the oranges and put in a cool place. Serve 
with powdered sugar. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Peach Tapioca Pudding. — Take the juice from a quart 
can of peaches and add enough boiling water to make a 
quart. Add three-fourths cup of Slade's Quick Cooking 
Tapioca, one cup sugar, and small lump of butter. Cook 
until tapioca is transparent. 

Place peaches in baking dish and pour over the tapioca. 
Bake in oven one-half hour. Rather slow oven is best. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Prune Sago Pudding. — One and one-half cups prunes 
stewed and picked to pieces, one cup Slade's Sago soaked 
and boiled until tender^ one-half cup sugar, salt and Slade's 



Any-old-sploe may be good enoagh for fooUsb folks, but 
you want "Slade's." 

» 

Cinnamon to taste; juice and grrated rind of one lemon. 
Cool in a mold. Serve with powdered sugar. — Mrs. J, M. 
Hill. 

Raspberry Whip. — 

2 small boxes berries 1 cup heavy cream 

1 tablespoon lemon juice % cup sugar 

Mash half the berries, add the lemon juice and sugar 
and stir into the stiffly beaten cream. Pile in sherbet 
glasses, garnish with the whole berries and serve ice-cold 
with lady fingers. — M. A. Davis, Worcester, Mass. 

• 

Rhubarb Tapioca. — Divide stalks of rhubarb, lengthwise, 
into two or three pieces; then cut into bits. To one pint 
of the rhubarb add a dozen and a half of cooked prunes 
with one-fourth a cup of prune juice and half a cup of sugar* 
After boiling five minutes add half a cup Slade's Quick 
Cooking Tapioca, soaked a few minutes in three- fourths a 
cup of cold water, and cook over hot water (stirring once 
or twice) until the tapioca becomes transparent. Serve 
hot or cold with sugar and cream. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Rioe and Tapioca Puddioflr. — Scald three pints of rich 
milk in a double boiler, st}r into it half a cup of Slade's 
Quick Cooking Tapioca and half a cup of rice; cook until 
the tapioca is transparent. Add one cup of stoned raisins, 
one cup of sugar mixed with one-fourth a teaspoonful each 
of Slade's Ground Mace and Cinnamon, and a teaspoonful 
of salt; stir until the sugar is dissolved. Pour the mixture 
into a buttered pudding dish. Bake in a very moderate 
oven about three hours, or until the grains of rice are tender. 
Serve either hot or cold. If the milk be absorbed before 
the rice becomes tender, add more milk. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Sa^o Pudding. — Two large tablespoons Slade's Sago 
boiled in one quart of water, the peel of one lemon, a little 
Slade's Nutmeg; when cold add four eggs and a little salt. 
Bake about an hour. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Strawberry Tapioca. — Soften one-half teaspoon of gela- 
tine in cold water to cover; dissolve with two teaspoons 
of boiling water standing over hot water. Cut straw- 
berries in halves lengthwise, dip the cut sides in the gela- 
tine, and with them line a glass serving dish, chilled. Add 
one-half cup sugar, one cup of water and the Juice of a 
lemon to the rest of the quart of berries, and cook until 
the berries are softened. There should be a generous pint 
of the mixture. Stir in one-fourth cup of Slade's Quick 
Cooking Tapioca and cook until the tapioca la transparent 
— from five to ten minutes; then fold in the whites of two 
eggsi beaten stiff; let cool slightly^ then pour inta the dish. 

64 



Slade*s reputation is so valuable it would be folly to in- 
jure it by selling; any poor stuff. 

lined with berries. Chill, and at serving time decorate 
with double cream, sweetened and beaten solid, and whole 
berries. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Strawberry Sponge. — Hull a quart of strawberries and 
sprinkle a cupful of sugar over them and leave for an hour 
or more. Cover one-half box of gelatine with one-half 
cup cold water. Mash the berries and press out all the 
juice. Dissolve the gelatine with one cupful of boiling 
water, and the juice of a lemon and the juice of the straw- 
berries, with more sujar if desirable and enough cold water 
to make fully three cups of liquid in all. When coia and it 
begins to jelly, beat in the whites of three eggs, stiffly beaten. 
Mould arid serve with whipped cream or a custard made 
with the yolks of the eggs. — Alice M. Williams, Lynn, Mass. 

Tapioca and Macaroon Cream.— 

3 round tablespoonfuls of M teaspoon salt 

Slade's Quick Cooking % cup pounded 

Tapioca macaroons 

3 eggs 2 cups milk 

% cup sugar 

Scald the milk in double boiler, add the tapioca slowly 
and cook five minutes, stirring frequently. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs well, add sugar and salt, pour the hot mixture 
slowly into the egg mixture and return to the boiler to 
cook about five minutes, stirring all the time. Remove 
from fire, fold in the beaten whites of eggs, add the pounded 
macaroons and set aside to cool. Can* be served with 
beaten cream. — Katherine M. Parsons, Lynn, Mass. 

Tapioca with Apples. — Core and pare about eight tart 
apples; let cook, until they may be pierced with a fork, in 
a cup of sugar and water boiling together; cook only three 
or four at a time, and turn them often to preserve their 
shape. When all are cooked, remove to a baking dish, and 
to the syrup add enough boiling water to make three cups 
in all; add half a teaspoon of salt, and when again boiling 
stir In one-third cup of Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca; stir 
and cook until transparent, then pour over the apples in the 
dish; sprinkle the tops of the apples with one-fourth a cup 
of sugar mixed with one tablespoon SLADE'S Cinnamon, 
and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold, pref- 
erably hot, with cream and sugar or with vanilla cream ice. 

Tapioca Sponge. — Put one cup of currant or quince jelly 
into a pint measure; fill the measure with bolting water: 
add half a cup (scant measure) of Slade's Quick Cooking 
Tapioca, and cook in a double boiler until the tapioca is 
trasparent. Add one-fourth a teaspoonf ul of salt to the 
whites of three eggs, and beat them until stifC; fold them 

65 



Tlie peaceful powder for the V, S. Navy is Slade's Baking; 
Powder. 

into the tapioca mixture, and turn into a mould. Serve, 
when thoroughly chilled, with cream. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 
Always ask for Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca. 

Thanksgiving Pudding. — 



3 pints scalded milk 
1 lb. of bread, or 6 
pounded crackers 

6 eggs 

2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup sugar 

% cup rose water 

1 teaspoon Slade's Nut- 
meg 

1 teaspoon Slade's Cin- 



^ teaspoon Slade's 

Cloves 
Salt 

% cup butter 
% cup chopped suet 
Juice and rind of one 

lemon 
1 pound each of currants, 
citrons and raisin;:^ 



namon 
Scald the milk, add bread crumbs and soak over night; 
add beaten eggs, flour, sugar, salt and spices which have 
been mixed together, butter, chopped suet, lemon juice 
and rose water. When thoroughly blended add currants, 
raishis and citron, cut in very thin slices. Turn into a 
buttered earthern ware pudding dish, cover and bake In 
a moderate oven four hours. Serve with cream pudding 
sauce. If the pudding seems stiff, add a small amount 
more of cold milk, before putting into the baking dish. — 
Jean Kenrick. 



Virginia Pone. — 

1 cup hot boiled hominy 

2 cups milk 

5 level tablespoons butter 
2 eggs, beaten 



*/^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup white corn meal 

2 teaspoons Slade's Bak- 
ing Powder 



Add to the hominy the milk and butter, then cool some- 
what. Add the salt, white corn meal and the baking pow- 
der, mixed and sifted together. Add the eggs, beaten light. 
Bake in a buttered earthern dish 45 minutes. — M^ C. Jones, 
Cambridge, Mass. 

PICKiiES AND PRESERVERS. 
Chili Sauce. — 



24 tomatoes 1 

3 small green peppers 1 

1 large onion (sliced) 

2 cups vinegar 1 
% cup sugar 1 
1 tablespoon salt 

1 teaspoon Slade's Cin- 
namon 



teaspoon Slade's Cloves 
teaspoon Slade's 
Allspice 

teaspoon Slade's Ginger 
teaspoon Slade's 
Nutmeg 



Boil vinegar and spices ten minutes. Peel and slice the 
tomatoes and add to the first mixture. Then add all the 
other ingredients and boil one and one-half hours. Re- 



66 



That tired feeling is often due to indigestible food. SIadc*s 
Baking Powder makes wholesome food. 

move from the fire and seal in sterilized air-tight jars or 
bottles. — Anna A. Murphy, Worcester, Mass. 

Fig Pickles. — 

IH lbs dried figs 1 teaspoon Slade's Cin- 

2 cups vinegar namon 

1 % cups sugar 1 teaspoon Slade's Cloves 

Wash the figs thoroughly in warm water, cover with 
cold water and let soak for two days, then simmer gently 
in the water in which they are soaked until soft. Add 
the sugar, vinegar and spices, and boil gently until thick. 
Store in sterilized jars and seal. — Mary Macdermaid, In- 
structor, School Domestic Science, Boston. 

You owe a duty to your family and the general welfare 
to insist upon having spices, baking powder, etc., of known 
purity and excellence. That is why you should call for 
SLADE'S. 

French Picldes. — ^Slice one peck of green tomatoes, 
sprinkle them as they are sliced with one cup of salt; let 
stand over night, then drain thoroughly, rinsing with cold 
water. Cut two quarts of onions into slices and put the 
tomatoes and onions into a large saucepan in layers with a 
sprinkling of Slade's Pickling Spice between each layer, 
using in all one cup of spice; sprinkle in also one pound of 
brown sugar and four tablespoonfuls of mixed mustard. 
Cover with vinegar and simmer one hour. Store iri fruit 
jars. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Green Tomato Sweet Pickle. — Of one peck of tomatoes 
remove a thin slice from the blossom ends and the hard 
portion around the stems, then slice. Sprinkle the slices 
as they are cut with a cup of salt and set aside over night. 
Drain and boil in two quarts of water and one quart of 
vinegar fifteen minutes, then drain again. Cook together 
ten minutes one gallon of cider vinegar, two pounds (four 
cups) of sugar and one package of Slade's Pickling Spice; 
add the tomato and simmer gently one hour, stirring oc- 
casionally. Store in fruit jars. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Mixed Pickles. — Cut fifty cucumbers lengthwise in quar- 
ters; cover with cold water in which one-third a cup of salt 
has been dissolved. Cook a large head of cauliflower in 
salted water until tender, then break apart in flowerets; 
cook two quarts of green beans, from which the strings 
have been taken, in salted water until nearly tender. Peel 
one quart of button onions and cook until nearly tender. 
Scald the cucumbers in the brine, then drain and rinse and 
mix with the other ingredients. Scald enough vinegar to 
cover the pickles, with three-fourths a cup of Slade's Pick- 
ling Spice, and pour while hot over the vegetables. This 
recipe gives a soft, tender pickle; if crisp pickles are desired, 
do not cook the vegetables. Let stand in salted water 

57 



Only absolutely pure groods bear that name, **Slade's". 
Protect your health by using only Slade's. 

over night, then drain off the brine, scald the brine with 
a piece of alum the size of a hickory nut, pour ^ver the 
vegetables, and when cold drain and replace with hot 
vinegar and the spices. — Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Olive Oil Pickles. — Slice cucumbers enough to make 
four quarts, cover with boiling water in which one cup of 
salt has been dissolved, let stand in a covered vessel twenty- 
four hours, then drain, rinse with fresh water and drain 
again. Add to the cucumbers one dozen button onions, 
scalded and peeled, half a cup each of sugar, olive oil, 
Slade's Pickling Spice and cold vinegar enough to cover. 
Mix thoroughly and store in earthen jars or glass cans, 
taking care that the liquid covers the cucumbers completely. 
— Mrs. J. M. Hill, Boston. 

Slade's Pickling Spice is a blend of whole spices, seeds, 
etc., to produce perfectly flavored pickles. Ask for Slade's 
and refuse bulk or Inferior brands. 

Pickled Beets, Spiced. — Cut off the tops one inch, at 
least, above the beet, but do not cut or break the root 
end. Wash carefully but thoroughly; cook in boiling 
water until tender, adding boiling water to replenish that 
which boils away. Drain, cover with cold water and rub 
off the skin; cut in thin slices or leave whole for use in hold- 
ing salads. Pack while hot in a stone jar, sprinkling Slade's 
Pickling Spice between and over the slices or the entire 
roots. Cover with cold vinegar and close the jar tightly. 
Use the whole beets, with centres scraped out to form 
cups, for cucumber or other salads. Use the slices as any 
pickles, or cut in fanciful shape, or chop finely to decorate 
potato, sardine, cabbage, celery or other salads. — Mrs. 
J. M. Hill, Boston. 

Picalilli or Chowchow. — Chop one peck of green toma- 
toes, mix with them one cup of salt and set aside over night. 
In the morning drain in a bag, pressing out all the liquid. 
To the tomatoes add one dozen small onions, one small 
head of cabbage, half a dozen green peppers and one head 
of celery, chopped. 

Put the ingredients into a porcelain kettle with three 
cups of brown sugar, one cup and a half of Slade's Pick- 
ling Spice, tied in several small bags, and three quarts of 
vinegar. Cook very slowly until the tomatoes are soft 
(six or eight hours), stirring often. Store in jars, removing 
the bags of spice or not as desired. — Mrs. J. M. Hill, Boston. 

Pickled Shad or Blueflsh. — Put the fish on the drainer 
or sheet in the kettle, add one tablespoonful of salt for 
each quart of water and enough boiling water to just cover 
the fish; cook slowly until the flesh separates from the 
bone, thirty minutes or less. Drain and let cool. Cut 
the flesh in pieces. To half the water in which the fish 

58 



Be4oTe food laws, Slade's Spioes and Specialties were 
absolutely pure, when adulteration was greneral. 

was cooked add Slade's Pickling Spice, a tablespoonful to 
a quart, and simmer half an hour or more. Add as much 
cider vinegar as liquor, and heat and pour over the fish, 
taking care that the liquor covers the contents. The pickle 
will be ready for use in one or two days and will keep in 
a cool place about ten days. — Mrs. J. M. Hill, Boston. 

Pickled Mushrooms. — Peel the mushroonjis with a knife 
or rub them with flannel and salt to remove the skin. Put 
them in a saucepan with a teaspoonful of Slade's Pickling 
Spice and half a teaspoonful of salt for each pound of mush- 
rooms. Cook very slowly until the juice begins to flow 
from them, shake and continue cooking until the liquid 
is absorbed; cover with vinegar, and when scalding hot 
store in glass fruit jars as in canning. — Mrs. J. M. Hill, 
Boston. 

Pickled Oysters. — ^Wash fifty oysters, put into a sauce- 
pan and strain the liquor over them, adding one table- 
spoonful of Slade's Pickling Spice and half a teaspoonful 
of salt; cook until the oysters look plump and the edges 
curl, then add one cup of vinegar, and when the liquid 
boils turn at once into hot cans and finish as in canning. 
Store in a dry place. Mrs. J. M. Hill, Boston. 

Pickled Pears. — 

4 quarts pears 1 oz. Slade's Stick 

4 cups sugar Cinnamon 

4 cups vinegar 12 Slade's Whole Cloves 

Boil sugar, vinegar, cloves and cinnamon twenty min- 
utes; skin thoroughly. Wipe and pare fruit, and place in 
cold water to prevent discoloring. Stick each pear with 
four cloves. Cook in boiling syrup half at a time, till soft. 
Put up in -pint jars, seal tightly according to directions 
for canning. Peaches or apples may be put up in the same 
manner. Large fruits should be cut in quarters. — Edna 
Burso, Worcester, Mass. 

Ripe Tomatoes, Pickled. — ^Wipe carefully one peck of 
smooth, ripe tomatoes and pack them into a jar, sprink- 
ling them as they are packed with one cup of Slade's Pick- 
ling Spice. Scald one gallon (or enough to cover the toma- 
toes) of strong cider vinegar and pour over the tomatoes; 
cover closely and let stand three days. Pour off the vinegar, 
scald and return to the tomatoes. After three days repeat 
the process, then set aside for six or eight weeks. — Mrs. 
J. M. Hill, Boston. 

Strlngle.ss Beans, Pickled. — Of one peck of green or wax 
beans remove the strings, cook whole in slightly salted 
water until nearly tender. Fill into a jar in layers, with 

69 



Slade's name has never been seen on adulterated goods. 
Get Slade's and purity is insured. 



one cup of Slade's Pickling Spice. Cover with scalding 
hot vinegar, press down with a weight upon a plate and 
set aside for a week; then scald the vinegar and return to 
the beans. Repeat the process a thiid time, after which 
they will be ready for use. — Mrs. J. M. Hill, Boston. 

Slade's Pickling Spice is a blend of whole spices, seeds, 
etc. to produce perfectly flavored pickles. Ask for Slade's 
and refuse bulk or inferior brands. 

Sweet Pickled Crab Apples. — Rub eight pounds of Si- 
berian crab apples with a dry flannel and prick each apple 
several times. Make a syrup of four pounds of sugar and 
a quart of vinegar (water may be substituted for a part 
of the vinegar) ; add two-thirds a cup of Slade's Pickling 
Spices and the crab apples and simmer until the apples 
are perfectly tender throughout, but not broken; drain 
and store in jars. Reduce the syrup until quite thick 
and pour over them. — Mrs. J. M. Hill, Boston. 

Sweet Fielded Pears. — Pare seven pounds of pears with- 
out removing the stems. Let them stand in cold water 
until all are pared, to avoid discoloring. Make a syrup of 
three pounds of sugar and one pint of vinegar, add half a 
cup of Slade's Pickling Spice and 'the pears, cook until 
tender. Pack in jars, reduce the syrup somewhat, and 
pour over the pears; flnish as in canning. 

If the pears are very ripe, cook only until well scalded, 
skim out into a jar, reduce the syrup and pour over them. 
The next day pour off the syrup, reheat and pour over the 
fruit. Repeat the process three times, reheating the pears 
with the syrup the last time. Prepare peaches, ripe musk- 
melon rind, or ripe cucumbers in the same manner. — Mrs. 
J. M. Hill, Boston. 

Some chemists claim that many of the spices sold in some 
States are adulterated; it is, therefore, for your interest to 
insist upon having Slade's Spices, which you know are 
absolutely pure and good. 

Tomato Catsup. — Scald and pare ripe tomatoes and cut 
them in small pieces. To each quart add one chopped onion. 
Stew until very soft and then rub through a strainer. To 
each gallon of the strained tomato liquid add the follow- 
ing seasonings: 



hi ounce Slade's Cayenne 
% ounce Slade's Ginger 
% ounce Slade's Allspice 



^^ ounce Slade's Cloves 
% lb. salt 
1 pt. vinegar 



Cook slowly for two hours and seal air-tight in sterilized 
glass jars. — Jean Kenrick, Newton, Mass. 

60 



**SIacle*s** and ''Satisfaction** are Siamese twins. 
Get Slade's and you get the best. 

Mint JeUy. — 

2 tablespoons granulated % cup sugrar 

gelatine hi cup lemon juice 

% cup cold water 1 bunch mint 

2 ^ cups boiling: water 

Wash and crush a small bunch of mint such as can be 
bought for Ave cents In a city market, and steep it in boil- 
ing water on the back of the stove for 15 or 20 minutes. 
Soften the gelatine .in cold water, and then dissolve in the 
boiling water in which the mint has steeped. Add lemon 
juice and sugar. Strain and pour into small, individual 
moulds. Chill. Serve with lamb. — Miss L. C. Smith. 
Brookline, Mass. 

Spiced Gooseberries. — 

6 quarts grreen or ripe 1 full tablespoon Slade's 

gooseberries; pick off Cinnamon 

the blooms 1 full tablespoon Slade's 

9 lbs. white sugar Allspice 

1 pt. vinegar 1 full tablespoon Slade's 

Clove 

Put % the quantity of sugar and the pint of vinegar 
and the gooseberries and spices in a preserving kettle and 
cook 1% hours — then add the remainder of the sugar and 
cook % of an hour longer. Put into presreving jars while 
hot. — Katherine M. Parsons, Lynn, Mass. 

One cannot be too careful about getting Slade's Cinna- 
mon, Cloves and Allspice, for these are always good. 
Spiced Grapes. — 

5 pounds grapes 2 teaspoons Slade's 

3 pounds sugar Allspice 

2 teaspoons Slade's Cin- % teaspoon Slade's 
namon Cloves 

Pulp the grapes and boil the skins until tender. Cook 
the pulp and strain through a sieve to remove seeds, then 
add the pulp to the skins, with sugar, spices, and one pint 
vinegar. Let this mixture boil thoroughly, then store in 
jars. — Isabelle Osborne, Instructor School of Domestic 
Science, Boston, Mass. 
Spiced Rliubarb Jelly. — 

2 tablespoonfuls (level) 3 cups sugar 

granulated gelatine % teaspoonful Slade's 

2 tablespoonfuls cold Whole Cloves 

water % teaspoonful Slade's 

5 cups rhubarb cut in inch Whole Allspice 

pieces 1 Inch stick Slade's Whole 

1 cup water Cinnamon 

Soak the gelatine in the 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water; 
cook the rhubarb, the cup of water, sugar and spices to- 
gether ten minutes, drain through a colander and pour 

61 



Slade's Potato Flour makes dellcions sponge cake. See 
recipes on package. 

the liquid while hot over the softened gelatine, add" the 
juice of the lemons and strain through a fine strainer into 
jelly mould. Set aside to harden. — Katherine M. Parsons. 
You can buy Slade's Whole Cinnamon and other whole 
spices in 5 and 10 cent cartons. 

FROZEN DAINTIES. 

The flavor is what makes frozen dainties pleasing to 
the palate, and for flavoring extracts there are none that 
equal SLADE'S. Many of the extracts now being sold 
are made from coal-tar ethers and should be avoided by 
the careful housewife to whom is entrusted the health 
and comfort of the family. All danger and annoyance 
attending the use of adulterated and poor quality flavor- 
ings can be avoided by insisting upon having only SLADE'S 
Flavoring Extracts, which are always absolutely pure 
and prepared from the best selected fruits and oils and 
are entirely free from the artificial chemical ethers so com- 
monly used. 

For true flavors, Slade's will be found to be the most 
economical and pleasing because of their superior excel- 
lence. 

Frozen Caramel Custard. — Stir one cup of granulated 
sugar in a saucepan over the fire until it melts and becomes 
caramelized. Cool the caramel a little and then add It 
carefully, using a long-handed spoon, to a quart of scalded 
milk. Add also one-quarter cup of Slade's Quick Cooking 
Tapioca and cook until the tapioca is transparent. Beat 
the yolks of four eggs slightly, add half a cup of sugar and 
half-teaspoonful of salt and cook in the hot mixture for a 
few moments, stirring all the time. Remove from the 
fire and turn at once into the can of the freezer. When 
thoroughly cold add one pint of cream, one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of Slade's Vanilla Extract and freeze. In 
packing the freezer, use three parts of ice to one of salt. — 
Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Slade's Vanilla Ice Cream. — Soften one-fourth a pack- 
age of gelatine In one-fourth a cup of cold milk and dis- 
solve in a pint of scalded milk, add one cup of sugar, «tir 
until dissolved, let cool, then add a second pint of milk, 
one cup of double cream and one tablespoonful of Slade's 
Vanilla Extract. In freezing use three measures of crushed 
ice to one of salt. 

Serve in sherbet glasses. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
maple syrup in each glass; add a rounding tablespoonful 
of the frozen cream and sprinkle the top of the cream with 
English walnuts, chopped rather coarse. — Mrs. Janet M. 
Hill, Boston, Mass. 

62 



You can saTe money and get better results by using 
Slade's Baking Powder. 

Slade's Vanilla extract Is prepared from selected vanilla 
beans and will be found thoroughly reliable. 

Strawberry Macaroon Ice. — ^To IH cups fresh straw- 
berry juice or syrup from a jar of canned strawberries, 
add H cup cold water, the juice of one lemon, a few grains 
of salt and sugar to taste; turn into a brick mould. Dilute 
% pint heavy cream with % cup milk and beat until stiff. 
Add % cup powdered sugar, % cup macaroons or macaroon 
drops dried and pounded, % tablespoon Slade's Vanilla, 
and a few grains salt. Pour on to the strawberry mixture 
to overflow the mould; cover with buttered paper, then 
with the tin cover. Pack in equal parts of ice and salt 
and let stand three hours. — ^Alice Bradley, Boston, Mass. 

Pistachio Bisque Ice Cream. — 

1 quart milk % teaspoonful salt 

1 cup sugar 1 egg 

1 tablespoonful flour 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Beat the egg slightly, 
blend with it the sugar, flour and salt, add to the scalded 
milk and cook twenty minutes. Strain and cool. When 
cold 1 quart cream, 1 tablespoonful Slade's Vanilla, 1 tea- 
spoonful Slade's Almond, % cup chopped peanuts, almonds 
and macaroons. Color a pale green. Pack and freeze. — 
Alice M. Williams, Lynn, Mass. 

Cherry Almond Mousse. — Make a white parfait by cook- 
ing 1 cup sugar and % cup water till it spins a thread. Pour 
this mixture slowly over beaten whites of three eggs, beaten 
till stiff and dry. Fold in the whip from 1 cup cream and 
1 cup chopped almonds which have been previously blanched 
and browned, % cup chopped candied cherries and 1 tsp. 
Slade's Almond Extract. Put into a mould, bury in ice and 
salt (4 parts ice to 1 part salt), for four hours. Turn on to 
a platter and press lady Angers around mould. — Edna Bur- 
so, Worcester, Mass. 

HEAIiTH HINTS. 

Health depends in a large degree upon keeping the body 
well nourished and the system working regularly; if the 
system becomes clogged, the decaying matter gradually 
poisons the entire system and headaches, stomach troubles, 
rheumatism, and almost all other troubles result. 

For the proper nourishment of the body pure and palate 
pleasing food should be prepared, the more pleasing to the 
eye and palate the more readily the food is digested; the 
anticipated pleasure of some pleasing looking food stars 
the flow of saliva and when this is further helped by a savory 
smell and a palate tickling taste the saliva and the gastric 

69 



Be prepared for company by having a bottle of Slade's 
Salad Cream in the house: — Salads are always acceptable. 

Juices make digestion easy; tiiis is one of the purposes of 
Slade's Spices and Slade's Extracts, they impart that de- 
lightful odor and flavor that make common foods uncom- 
monly good. 

Because of their absolute purity and superior excellence, 
Slade's Spices and Extracts conduce to good health. The 
general idea that spices and extracts are harmful is due to 
the large proportion of adulterated and poor quality spices 
and extracts commonly sold; spices loaded with dirt and 
adulteration, or ground from old, decayed or worm-eaten 
whole spices are necessarily unwholesome, and even good 
whole spices improperly powdered may be irritating, but 
Slade's Spices are the best selected spices, cleaned and 
powdered in the most approved manner, absolutely pure; 
that is why you should always insist upon SLADE'S. 

A. R. Gray, M. D., in the American Journal of Health 
said: "Such a house as the D. & L. Slade Co., Boston, 
for illustration, offers the careful housekeeper a protec- 
tion which cannot be over-estimated, for goods bearing 
their label are the best and purest obtainable and can be 
used with a sense of utmost security, as regards their whole- 
someness and freedom from adulteration." 

Extracts have been adulterated to a greater extent than 
almost any other article in the food line; the coal-tar pro- 
ducts have given an opportunity to produce flavorings 
similar to the true extracts at prices so much less in cost 
that the temptation to sell the unwholesome products has 
been too great for many manufacturers and dealers; Slade's 
Flavoring Extracts are true, pure and wholesome; they 
are made from the best selected fruits and are always true 
to name and reliable. 

SLADE'S VANILLA is prepared from the best selected 
Mexican Vanilla Beans and for delicacy of flavor and true 
efficiency is unsurpassed. It is free from all artiflcial color 
and its clear amber-like appearance tells of its high quality, 
and that all useless vegetable matter has been removed. 

SLADE'S LEMON is prepared from the highest test 
Oil of Lemon and fresh fruit; a trial of this will convince 
the most skeptical that the high reputation of SLADE'S 
Spices is fully maintained in SLADE'S Flavoring Ex- 
tracts. 

SLADE'S ORANGE, ALMOND, ROSE, and ONION 
are all guaranteed to be absolutely pure and of the high- 
est efficiency as flavorings; they will be found to be far 
superior to ordinary flavoring extracts, and to be most 
economical because SLADE'S will produce a better flavor 
with a smaller quantity. 

64 



For sandwiches, salads and cold meats use Blade's Mus- 
tard — ^it pleases the palate. 



beijIj's spiced seasoning recipes 

Bell's Seasoning has been sold for over. 50 years and 
because of its superior excellence has supplanted other kinds 
and steadily increased in sale. 

AlKXiir Recipes have been prepared and tested by famous 
cooks. Every one is a gem. There is no guess-work. Re- 
sults will always be satisfactory if directions are followed. 

All measurements are level unless otherwise stated. 

Tomato Soup. Place 1 quart milk in double boiler, and 
bring to a boil. If^ldce in saucepan the contents of a 3- 
pound can of toii^atoes, and bring to a boil. Add to the 
tomatoes H teaspoon soda. This is important. Strain the 
tomatoes into the milk. Add 1 even teaspoon of Bell's Sea- 
soning and 1 teaspoon of salt. Strain and serve promptly. 

.Jellied Meats or Fowl. 1 pint of cold meat or fowl, one 
t49aspbon Bell's Seasoning, ^ teaspoon salt, liquid enough to 
nil pi^t mould. Add to liquid when hot. 1 tablespoon gra- 
nulated gelatine. Cool and serve on a base of lettuce leaves 
over which thin sliced lemon is placed. 

Bell's Croquettes. 1 cup chopped cold roast lamb or boiled 
mutton. Cook one cup potatoes, pared and cut in H-inch 
cubes, in boiling salted water till soft. Brown 1 tablespoon 
finely chopped onion with 2 tablespoons butter, stirring con- 
stantly. Add 4 tablespoons flour. Cook 2 minutes. Then 
pour on, stirring constantly, % cup strained tomato. Season 
with % teaspoon Bell's Seasoning, 1 .teaspoon vinegar, H 
teaspoon finely chopped parsley. Add lamb and potatoes. 

Salt to taste. Spread mixture on plate to cool. Shape, dip 
in crumbs, in egg, and crumbs again. Fry in deep fat, and 
drain on brown paper. 

Veal Ix>af. 1% pounds finely chopped lean veal, % pound 
finely chopped fat salt pork, % cup bread or cracker crumbs, 
H tablespoon salt, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon Bell's Seasoning. Pack in small bread pan, brush with 
slightly beaten white of egg, cover, and bake in slow oven 
2% hours. Baste three times with 1 tablespoon butter 
melted in 1 tablespoon hot water, and prick frequently. 
Remove loaf, and pour olT any fat. Chill, cut in thin 
slices, garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg and parsley. 

66 



Slade's Stige is the hand-picked sage leaTes powdered per- 
fectly pure— 'HO stalks, no steins, no dirt. 

Escalloped Meat or Fish. Alternate layer of meat or fish 
sprinkled over with 1 teaspoon Bell's Seasoning, with a layer 
of fine cracker crumbs, then a layer of potato. Repeat these 
layers until dish is full. Add grravy, broth, or warm water, 
and bake slowly. For fish use milk instead of warm water. 

Hotel Sizes: the 1 -pound can is sufiicient to fiavor the 
dressing of 800 pounds meat or poultry, or the 5-pound 
can, 4000 pounds. 

Meat or Turkey Dressing. Toast 4 slices white bread 
and with 2 cups cracker crumbs place in a deep dish; add 
% cup melted butter. Cover with 2% cups hot milk to make 
stuffing right consistency. Add tablespoon Bell's Season- 
ing, an even teaspoon salt and 4 slices salt pork fried to a 
crisp and chopped fine. When well mixed, stir in 2 raw eggs. 
Equally good when baked in small pan and serve separately. 

A Nice Turkey Dressing. Toast 7 or 8 slices of white bread. 
Place in a deep dish, adding butter the size of an egg. Cover 
with hot water or milk to melt butter and make bread right 
consistency. Add 1 even tablespoon of Bell's Seasoning and 
1 even teaspoon salt. When well mixed, stir in 1 or 2 raw 
eggs. For goose or duck add 1 raw onion (diopped fine. 

Equally good when baked In a small dish and served sepa- 
rately. 

Miss Fanner's Turkey Dressing. 1 cup stale bread crumbs, 
1 cup cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon Bell's Seasoning, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, H tablespoon finely chopped onion, % cup melted 
butter, H cup finely chopped cold boiled ham. Mix well, 
and moisten with 1 % cups scalded milk. If stufilng is to 
be served cold, add 1 egg, slightly beaten. 

One of Boston's noted hotel-keepers has said: *'I would 
as soon think of discharging my chef as to do withouti 
Bell's Spiced Seasoning." 

Delicious Dressed Beef. Take a 6 -pound cut shin beef, 
wash thoroughly, cut in small pieces, place in kettle, half 
cover with cold water, and cook slowly for 5 hours. Re- 
Inove fat, gristle, and bone. Chop fine, add 2 ev^i tea- 
st>tK>ns of Bell's Seasoning, heaping teaspoon salt, and 
enough of the liquor to moisten well. Place in deep dish 
With heavy weight on it and cool. An onion cooked with 
the meat will add to the flavor. 

Delicious Ijamb Croquettes* (Chicken or Beef Croquettes 
hiade in the same manriei* are excellent.) Prepare 6 cups 
of chopped lamb. Take IH Aven tablespoons butter, melt 
in saucepan, and add 1 heaping tablespoon flour and 1 cup 

If 



Xo chemical preservatives In any of Slade's goods; piurity 
and cleanliness and scientiilc skill ajre depended upon as 
preservatives. 



of milk, stirring continually until it boils. Add 1 evei^ tea- 
spoon of Bell's Seasoning and 1 even teaspoon salt, i^^*^^^ 
1 egg over the meat. Pour over same the sauce ma||e as 
above, and stir thoroughly. Make into croquettes of size 
desired, and put in a cool place to harden. Fry in ho^ lard. 
Serve with green peas. 

Hamburg Steak. For 1 pound of meat add 3 tea^q[>oons 
Bell's Seasoning, half pint warm water. Place in baking pan 
and cook in moderate oven 1 hour. Serve on a bp,se of 
mashed potato, garnished with parsley. 

Salmon IJoaf. Mix 1 beaten egg with 1 pint of mashed 
potato, and line mould with same. Fill with 1 pound of 
salmon well mixed with 1 heaping teaspoon of Bel|'s Sea- 
soning. Cover with mashed potato. Then bake for" 1 hour 
in moderate oven. 

Spiced Beef. Chop 2 pounds fresh beef, enough to fill 
4 cups. Soak 2 slices bread, either toasted or plain, in 1^ 
cups of milk, and add to the raw beef. Cut fine 2 slices of 
fat salt pork, and add to beef, together with 3 eyen tea- 
spoons salt, and 3 even teaspoons BelFs Seasoning. Place 
in a buttered pan. Cut a piece of butter the size of an egg 
in small pieces, and distribute over the top. Bak^ from 1 
to IV^ hours. 

Sscalloped Oysters. Toast to a crisp 2 slices of whjte bread. 
Break in pieces, and place in a deep dish. Add % cup of 
cracker crumbs % cup melted butter, IH teaspoons salt, 

1 even teaspoon of Bell's Seasoning. % cup hot w^'ter and 
mix thoroughly. Place in bottom of shallow buttered bak- 
ing-dish a thin layer of bread crumbs, then a layer con- 
sisting of % pint of oysters, 2 tablespoons of oyster liquor, 
and 2 tablespoons of cream or milk. Cover with the dressing 
compounded as above. Add another half pint of oysters, 

2 tablespoons of oyster liquor, 2 tablespoons of cream or 
milk, evenly distributed. Sprinkle with browned buttered 
cracker crumbs. Bake 30 minutes. 

Meat Souffl^. Melt 1 tablespoon butter. Add 1 tablespoon 
flour. Pour on, stirring constantly, 1 cup scalded milk. Add 
% cup soft stale bread crumbs. Cook 2 minutes. Add % 
cup chopped cooked chicken, turkey, or duck, % teaspoon 
Bell's Seasoning, % teaspoon salt. Add well-beaten yolks 2 
eggs. Cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Bake in 
buttered pudding- dish in slow oven 35 minutes. Serve with 
or without white sauce. 

67 



Slade's Pepper has a better fla/vor than other khids be- 
cause it is the b^t cleaned whole pepper powdered perfectly 
pure. 

Delicious Sausage. To each pound of fresh, lean pork add 
1 level tablespoon of Bell's Poultry Seasoning and 1.% even 
teaspoons salt, Sprinkle over the meat, cut fine, thoroughly 
mix to a stiff dough, then make into' cakes and fry. 

1012, E. R. Grabow Co., Managers of Hotel Cmpire, 
Hotel Tuileries, Boston, Hotel Titchfield and Myrtle Banlc 
JIotel,^Janiai€;a,.New Ocean House, Swampscott, Mass.^ write: 
••We take pleasure in endorsing BELIj'S POUI/TRY DRESS- 

ING, which is the only one we use in all our hotels^ and 
cheerfully recommend it." 

^ 1878, Allen AinsUie, Steward, Tremont House^ Boston, 
^vroter "Unquestionably the most superior SEASONING in 
use." . / 



THIRTY-FIVE YEARS LATER 

1013, Allen Ainslie,- President Hotel Lenox, Boston, writes: 
"Have used BELLi'S SPIOED SEASONING for thirty-five 
in the various hotels which I have conducted and in my 
opinion it Is -the best Seasoning that has ever been put on 
the market." 

1005, Mrs. W. H. Watson, Yokohama, Japan, wrote: "I 

used your Dressing for years in America. My mother used 
it and she. thought as I do that there was nothing qaite 
so good.. Curnow & Company are our best grocers. I do 
wish you. could induce them to buy it. 

* " . • ■ ■ • 

1006, J. Cumow & Co., Iitd., Yolcohama, Japan, wrote: 

"We secured a supply of your Seasoning from Seattle and 
now have it on sale." 

A. P. Tandy, Steward of the New Hampsliire Stafp.HLos-; 
pital at Concord, N. H., writes: "We have used yonf Poultry 
and Sausage Seasonings for several years, and they have 
always given entire satisfaction." 

1012, William H. Moseley, Moseley's New Haven Ilouse, 
New ^aven. Conn, wrote: "I wish to add, my testimony to 
that given you by my father in 1878, and to say that, we 
have continued to use your POUI/TRY SEASONING to tjie 
exclusion of all others, and fipd it has been kept up to the 
high standard of quality referred to by him." , 

1011, F. H. Crane, Superintendent Parlor, Sleeping and 
Dining Cars, New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad 

68 



Physicians, Chemists, Ck>oks and Housekeepers all testify 
to the purity, wholesomeness and efficient qualities of Slade's 
Baking Powder. 

Co., wrote: "We have been using BELLi'S POUI/TRY SEA- 
SONING in our dining cars for a long time with good re- 
sults;" 

1912, J. Freed Harvey, Managing Director of Hotel Belle- 
vue ^d Hotel Canterbury, Boston, and Piedmont Hotel, 
Atlanta, Ga., wrote: "We use BELL'S DRESSING in all our 

hotels and have not used any other for eighteen years. Our 
cooks prefer BelFs to that of any other." 

1876, J. B. Wistar, Steward Grand Central Hotel, New 
York City, wrote: "I have been over-persuaded to try other 
makes. In every instance have been obliged to either 
return or throw them away and fall back on the old reliable 
BELL'S SPICED POULTRY SEASONING." 

1913, Herbert S. Joslin, Managet* Hotel Cecil, Medicine 
Hat, Alberta, Canada, writes: "THE POULTRY AND SAUS- 

SAGE SEASONING ^reaches us O. K. arid? almost every day 
we enjoy it in some form. Myf Chineses chef^'isi-qtiite de^ 
lighted at the many compliments on his Turkey Bussing 
and home-made Sausage cake. You will hear from us as 
soon as we need more." 

In 1870, Mrs.. Underwood, the famous cook, served. Gen- 
eral Butler with dressing flavored with the original. ^ELL!S 
SPICED SEASONING, and the general said, "A little more 
stuffing, please. This is fine, Mrs. Underwood." 

In 1870, BELL'S SPICED SEASONING was, made of the 
granulated leaves of pure, sweet herbs and spices. ' As it 
was in 1870, so it is to-day. It has given satisfaction each 
successive year to a critical public. 

' ' •-' Memorial Hall, Harvard College, 

Cambridge, March 1, 1878; 

YOUR DRESSING for meat, game, fish, and poultry merits 
all that you claim-. for it. The pleasusre of havings h^rbs 
and spices in one package instead of half a dozen* is real- 
ized when using your dressing. The satisfaction of having 
it' at all times alike is apparent to any chef du cuisinen 

F. E. Belch, Steward. , 

We recommend and sell 

Bell's Se<^sonin 

69 




And cold meat, fl^h, and vegretables can be made into a 
pleasln^r salad by the use of Slade's Salad Cream. 



KC£3?IN6 WKUL. 

Pure and palate pleasing food, right thinking, and right 
habits conduce tp good health; the system should not be 
allowed to become clogged; to keep the system working 
properly regular habits should be cultivated and when 
nature needs assistance only reliable remedies should be 
used; Slade's name gives perfect protection from adulterated 
and fraudulent medicines. 

In case of serious sickness always consult a physician. 
In an emergency for common disorder use some of the 
simple remedies found in almost every home. 



Some of these simple remedies: 

Acidity of Stomach. — ^Take a teaspoonful of Slade's Salera- 
tus or Baking Powder in half a glass of water, or Slade's 
Soda Mints. 

Biliousnees — Slade's Aromatic Castor Oil. 

Boils or Carbuncles (or other outward indications of im- 
pure blood). — Slade's Sulphur. 

Bruises or Abrasions. — Slade's Camphorated Oil. 

Bums and Scalds. — Slade's Camphorated Oil. Slade's 
Camphorated Oil and lime water equal parts, produces 
an improved "Carron Oil" as employed at the Carron Iron 
Works, Scotland. 

Catarrh.- — Slade's Sulphur internally taken In milk or 
Slade's Sulphur taken with molasses. Slade's Cream Tar- 
tar is a valuable adjunct to the sulphur and molasses. 

Cold. — If attended with constipation use Slade's Aromatic 
Castor Oil. 

Colic. — Slade's Essence Peppermint and Spearmint. If 
there is costiveness and continued pain a cathartic should 
be employed such as Slade's Aromatic Castor Oil. 

Collapse or Fainting. — A few drops of Slade's Spirits 
Camphor on sugar taken internally, also bathe the face 
with Slade's Spirits Camphor. 



70 



Good nutrition depends on * pure and healthful f ood— 
Slade*s Baking Powder makes health-glTlng: food. 

Ck>ngestlon of Bronchial Passa^.. — Slade's Camphorated 
Oil externally. 

Ck>nstlpation. — Slade's Aromatic (pleasant) Castor Oil, 
Slade's Tincture of Rhubarb. Slade's Sweet Tincture of 
Rhubarb. 

Dlarrhoect. — Slade's Essence Spearmint, Slade's Sweet 
Tincture Rhubarb. 

Diphtheria. — Slade's Sulphur. Blow througrh a cone of 
paper into tonsils. Allow a pinch of Slade's Borax to dis- 
solve on tonsrue slowly. 

Dyspepsia. — Slade's Soda Mints. 

Dysentery. — Slade's Aromatic Castor Oil. 

Sczema. — Slade's Sulphur mixed with equal amounts of 
lard and applied to parts affected. Slade's Camphorated 
Oil, applied externally, Slade's Sulphur internally. Dissolve 
a few ^ains menthol in Slade's Camphorated Oil and apply. 

• Ear Ache. — Place Slade's Sweet Oil or Slade's Cam- 
phorated Oil on cotton and put into ear passage and appjy 
warmth at back of ear. ^ 

Flatulence. — Slade's Soda Mints, Slade's Essence of Pep- 
permint, Slade's Essence of Spearmint. 

Headache. — Slade's Spirits Camphor as an outward ap- 
plication. If constipated use remedies suggested. See Con- 
stipation. Put feet into hot water with Slade's Mustard and 
allow to remain until cold; it draws the blood and inflam- 
mation from head. 

Heartburn. — Slade's Soda Mints. 

HiveSi — Bathe the body with equal parts Slade's Spirits 
Camphor and water, rubbing the affected parts especially 
well. Give cathartics such as Slade's Aromatic Castor 
Oil, etc* 

Nauseai^-^Slade's £:ssence Spearmint, Slade's Soda Mints> 
Three to five drops Slade's Spirits Camphor on sugar; 

Neuralgia (Pain in net^e Centres) .-^Siade'id Spirits Cam- 
phor, Blade's Camphorated C^il, ail to be applied externally, 
parts to be well rubbed. 



Prickly Heati — Eat light, keep bowels opeh by use of 

71 



Baked beana become a real treat when Slade's Salad Cream 
is ua^ upon them. 

Slade's Aromatic Castor Oil and bathe in water in which 
there has been some Slade's Saleratus dissolved. 

Rheumatic (or muscular pain). — Slade's Spirits Camphor, 
Slade's- Cacmphorated Oil, all applied externally. Coyer 
parts with cloth or oiled silk to keep moisture in and prevent 
evaporation. 

- R • - r. • r 

Sour Stomach. — Slade's Soda Mints. 

Sprains. — Slade's Camphorated Oil, Slade's Spirits Cam- 
phor. Apply externally to pairts affected. 

Stomach Ache. — Slade's Essence Spearmint, Pepper- 
mint, Checkerberry. 

Stomach Bum. — Slade's Soda Mints. 

Tooth Ache (Cavity). — Saturate a piece of cotton with 
Slade'sr camphorated Oil and insert in the cavity of tooth. 

Tooth Aqhe (Inflammatioii or swollen gum). — Rub grum 
with Slade's Spirits Camphor and rub the outside of face 
with Slade's Camphorated * Oil Keep face warm. ' 

' t HO VSSHOIiD HINTS. 

To Destroy Cabbage Worms. — Sprinkle Slade's Pepper 
into the crrowingr cabbages. 

To Cook Peas or Beans That are Too Old to be Tender. — 

Add a pinch of Slade's Baking Powder to the water in 
which they ' are cooked; it removes the strong flavor and 
makes them more digestible and more delicate. 

To Remove Fruit or Tea Stains From Table Cloths or 
Napkins. — ^Use Slade's Saleratus moistened with sweet 
milk or soap suds. 

To Make Clothes Look White. — Add a liberal quantity 
of Slade's Saleratus in washing, and the clothes will not 
require so much rubbing. 

To Soften Water. — Add a little Slade's Saleratus or a 
little Slade's Borax. 

To Keep the Whites of Eggs from Falling Back Before 
Being Used. — Add a pinch of Slade's Cream Tartar to the 
half-beaten whites and beat until stiff. 

To Make Cut Flowers Keep. — Add a little Slade's Sale- 
ratus to the water in which they are kept. 

To Clean White Furs. — Wash in warm water, to which 
Slade's Saleratus has been added. 

12 



Slade*s Ijemon flaTprs si^perlor to any other. 



To Remove Stains from Marble. — ^Apply a mixture of 
Slade's Saleratus and Whiting with a damp cloth. 

* • • - 

' Iiavatories, Kitchen Sinks, and Ijaundry Tubs can be 
kept sweet and clean with a generous usagr^ of Slade's Sal- 
eratus. 

To Improve the Flavor of Groosoberrlcs. — Add a little 
Slade's Cinnamon. 

To Make a Faded Dress Perfectly White. — Wash in boil- 
ing water, to which Slade's Cream Tartar has been added. 

To Keep Milk Cans Sweet and Clean. — Ringe in hot water 
in which some Slade's Saleratus has been dissolved. 

To Clean Feather Dusters. — Give a bath in hot water, 
in which a generous amount of Slade's Saleratus has been 
dissolved. 

To Sweeten Meats and Game WTiich Have Become Slightly 
Tainted. — As a rule all large roasts, or any kind of meat, 
poultry or game should be washed before cooking in a pan 
of water, to which a tablespoon of Slade's Saleratus has 
been added. - If there be the slightest taint -the Saleratus 
sweetens and purifies it. Liver, Kidney, Heart,, Sweet- 
breads, etc.,- may be treated In the! same y/^y to reiji-ove 
the coagulated blood. 

Ta Flavor White Soups, Mashed Potatoes, Poached Eggs, 

Etc — tlse Slade's White Pepper, as it will not show as 
plainly as when the Black Pepper Is used;- 

When the Butter Pails to Come after the customary 
amount of churning, a teaspoonful of Slade's Soda will 

hasten matters. _ . " . 

- ' . ■ • - ^ ^>. 

;Mllk Which Has Tiirned may be rendered fit for use again 
by stirring in a little Slade'g Socia. ' " 

To -Keep the Baby's Bottle Sweet. — Rinse often in boil- 
ing water, in which Slade's Saleratus has been dissolved. 

To Keep Oruels or Milk Sweet in the Sick Room. — Put in a 

pinch of Slade's Saleratu^. • . C 

Acid Fruits will require much less sugar if a little Slade's 
Saleratus is stirred in^ before adding sugar: ^Remember 
this when cooking Rhubarb, Cranberries, ' Gooseberries, 
Currants, Plums, etc. 

When Cooking Meats and Vegetables the addition of a 
little Slade's Saleratus will hasten their cooking as wqU 
as make them tender. 

73 



II pore, always pare and 



When Washing Distaea add a little of Slade's Saleratus 
or of Slade'a Borax and your dishes will cleB.n eaalor and 
have a better polish. 

To Prevent Moths from Destroflnir Clothing, Carpets, 
Etc. — Sprinkle Slade's Cloves and Allspice about the articles 
to be protected. It Is said that Slade's Cloves are as erFect- 
Ive as camphor, moth marbles, etc.. and tar more agreeable 

To Drive Away R«d Anls.^— Scatter Slade's Clovea and 
Allspice thickly about where the ants trouble and allow 
it to remain; the smell of cloves Is very distasteful to the 
ants, and drives them away. 

Antidote tor Poison. — In case of accidentally taking 
poison, first produce vomiting' by giving an emetic conalatlng 
or a teaspoon of Slsije's Mustard In a tumbler of warm water, 
call physician at once, then give the white of an egg. and in 
cose of stupor, give strong coRee. 



A GREAT CONVENIENCE 

Tm need no gntcr 

« SIMPLE SHAKE 
FLAVORS THE MKE 

SLADE»S 

Powdered Nutmeg 

Is rapidly taking the place of whole Nutmegs. 
It I* more-convenient and more economical as there 1» no watte. 



How to Measure 



By Mrs. Mary J. Lincoln. 

/^NE cup, or one tablespoon, or one teaspoon, means 
^^ a full measure — all it will hold of liquid, and even 
with the rim, or edge, of dry material. 

Stir up all packed materials, like mustard in its box, and 
sift flour before measuring. Fill cup without shaking down, 
and dip spoon in material, taking up a heaped measure, 
then with a knife scrape off toward the tip till you have 
level measure. Pack butter or lard in cup so there 
will be no air spaces. A scant cup means one-eighth less 
and a heaped cup about one-eighth more than a level cup. 

Divide a level spoon lengthwise for a half measure, and a 
half-spoon crosswise for quarters or eighths. A pinch 
means about one-eighth, so does a saltspoon; less than 
that means a dash or a few grains. 

A rounded tablespoon means fllled above the rim as much 
as the spoon hollow below, and equals two of level measure. 
It also equals one ounce in weight, and two rounded table- 
spoons if put together would heap a tablespoon about as 
high as would an egg, giving us the old-time measure of 
"butter size of an egg,** or two ounces, or one-fourth the 
cup. Butter and flour for sauces are commonly measured 
by the rounded tablespoon by the experienced housekeeper. 

Soda, cream-of -tartar, baking powder, salt and spices, 
and some extracts, are generally measured with a tea- 
spoon, level measure, for this gives the proportional amount 
needed for the cup measure of other materials. 



Table of Proportions 

60 drops = 1 teasp. 

3 teaspoons = 1 tabsp. 

4 tablespoons.... = ^ cup. 

1 cup = % pint. 

1 round table- 
spoon butter = 1 ounce. 

1 solid cup but- 
ter, granulated 
sugar, milk, 
chopped meaL=^/4 pound. 

2 cups flour = % pound. 

9 large eggs = 1 pound. 



Table of Measures 

1 cup liquid, 3 cups flour 
for bread 

1 cup liquid, 2 cups flour 
for mufllns. 

1 cup liquid, 1 cup flour 
for batters. 

1 teaspoon soda to 1 pint 
sour milk. 

1 teaspoon soda to 1 cup 
molasses. 

% teaspoon salt to 1 quart 
custard. 

1 teaspoon salt to 1 quart 
water. 

% teaspoon salt is a pinch. 

% square inch pepper is a 
shake. 



7§ 



Time Table for Cooking 

By Mr$. Mary J. Lincoln 



BAKING BREAD. CAKES 
AND PUDDINGS. 



Lodf bread . . . ; 40 to 60 

Rolls, Biscuit 10 to 20 

Ornham gems 30 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 

Sponge cake. ...... .45 to 60 

Plain cake 30 to 40 

Fruit cake 2 to 3 

Cookies 10 to 15 

Bread pudding * 1 

Rice and Tapioca 1 

Indinn, pudding. 2 to 3 

Plum puddiiig. . ..... 2 to 3 

rtistards .......;... 15 to 20 

Steamed brown -bread 3 

Stoanieil pudding .... 1 to 3 

Pie-crust ..... about 30 

Potatoes 30 to 45 

Baked beans 6 to 8 

Braised meat 3 to 4 

Scalloped dishes .... 15 to 20 



m. 

t( 

<< 
•< 

4( 
H 

hrs. 

m. 

hr. 



m. 
hrs. 

<4 

m. 
•< 

hrs. 
<i 

m. 



FRYING 

Croquettes, Fish Balls . 1 m. 

Doughnuts. Fritters.. 3 to 5." 
Bacon, Small Fish, 

Potatoes 2 to 6 " 

Bread^'d Chops and 

Fish> 5 to 3 •* 



BAKING MEATS 

Beef, sirloin, rare, per 

lb 8 to 10 m. 

Beef, sirloin, well 

done, per lb 12 to 15 *' 

Beef, rolled rib or 

rump, per lb 12 to 15 *' 

Beef, long or -short 

fillet 20 to 30 ** 

Mutton, rare,' per lb. 10 *' 

Mutton, well done, 

per lb 

Ijamb, well done, per 

lb 

Veal, well done, per 

lb. 

Pork, well done, per 

lb 

Turkey, 10 lb8 wt . . 
Chickens, 3 to 4 lbs. 

wt 1 to 1% •• 

Goose, 8 lbs.. 2 '* 

Tame ducks 40 to 60 m 

Game duck 30 to 40 m 

Grouse, Pigeons..... . 30 " 

Small birds 1.15 to 20 *• 

Venison, per lb 15 " 

Fish, 6 to 8 lbs ; long 

thin fi3h 1 br 

Fish 4 to 6 lbs ; thick 

Halibut i " 

Fish, small 20 to 30 m 



15 ** 

15 " 

20 •* 

30 " 
3 hrs. 



BOILING 



Coffee 3 to 5 on. 

Tea, steep without 

boiling 5 »• 

Corn meal 3 hrs, 

Hominj', fine .....'. 1 hr. 

Oatmeal, rolled 30 ra. 

** coarse, steamed 3 hrs. 

Rice, steamed 45 to 60 m. 

Rice., boiled 15 to 20 '• 

Wheat Granules 20 to 30 '* 

Eggs, soft boiled ... 3 to 6 " 
Eggs, hard boiled. . .15 t6 20 " 
Fish, long, whole, per 

lb 6 to 10 

Fish, cubical, per lb 15 

Clams, Oysters 3 to 5 

Beef, corned and a. la 

mode 3 to 

Soup -fitoek 3 to 

Veal. Mutton 2 to 



<< 

4< 



5 hrs. 

6 '* 
3 •* 



Tongue 3 

Potted Pigeons 

Ham 

Sweetbreads ........ 20 

Sweet cofii ......... 5 

Asparagus, Tomatoes, 

Peas 15 

Macaroni, Potatoes, 
Spinach, Squash, 
Celery, Cauliflower, 

Greens 20 

Cabbage, Beets, y'ng 30 
Parsnips, Turnips ... 30 
Carrots, Onions, Sal- 
sify 30 

Beans, String and 

Shelled 1 

Puddings, 1 qt , st'md 

Puddings, small 

Freezing Ice Cream . . 



to 4 hrs, 

2 •• 

5 '• 

to 30 m 

to 8 *• 

to 20 •• 



to 30 " 
to 45 •• 
to 45 " 

to 60 •' 

to 2 hrs. 
3 *• 
1 hr. 
30 m. 



BROILING 



Steak, one inch thick 4 m. 

Steak, one and a half 

inches thick.i.. .«. . . 6 *• 

Small, thin fish 5 to 8 " 



Thick fish 12 to 15 m. 

Chops broiled in pa- 
per 8 to 10 •• 

Chicken 20 " 

Liver, Tripe, Bacon . , 3 to 8 " 



76 



HEALTH AUTHORITIES PRAISE THE PURITY OF 

SLADE'S FOOD PRODUCTS, 



Massachusetts State Assayers 

Messrs. Griffin & Little have certified that they have 
examined samples of Slade's Spices, Mustard, Cream 
Tartar, Herbs, etc., and found them to be absolutely 
pure and of highest quality. 

Prof. S. P. Sharpies, Dr. B. Fi Davenport, Prof. J. F. 
Babcock and other well-known chemists and analysts, 
have certified to the purity and quality and Tiealthful- 
ness of Congress Baking Powder 

Maine State Assayers 

Professors- F. L. Bartlett and Richard M. Stanley 
have testified to the perfect purity and healthful qual- 
ity of Congress Baking Powder. 

Rhode Island State Assayer 

Prof. E. E. Calder has certified to the purity, effi- 
ciency, healthfulness and reliability of Congress Bak- 
ing Powder. 

Connecticut State Analysts 

in their official reports testify to the absolute purity of 
Slade's Spices, Cream Tartar, etc. In Bulletin 123 they 
show that of 22 samples of mustard in labeled pack- 
ages, Slade's Mustard was the only absolutely pure 
uncolored mustard found. . 

New York State 

Messrs. Stillwell & Gladding, analytical chemists, 
have certified that Slade's Baking Powder is an honest 
powder, of great purity and exceptional strength. 

A. R. Gray, M. D.: "The most searching analysis of 
the D. & L. Slade Co.'s Spices but demonstrates their 
excellence and absolute purity, and condiments sold 
under their brand are eminently worthy of praise from 
every physician and health journal in the land." 

pr. B. F. Warner: "Judged simply upon its own 
strong merits and from the viewpoint of the trained 
hygienist, Slade's Quick Cooking Tapioca deserves the 
heartiest praise that any health publication can bestow 
upon a deserving food article whose .wholesomeness 
and nutritive value have been thoroughly proved by 
the 'most searching scientific tests." 



EVERY TEST OF SLADE'S SPICES, 

Bakin^T Powder, Mustard, Cream Tartar, etc, 
means new triumph, for SIiAD£'S goods are 
all pure, always pure, and pure in all ways. 

77 



NUT LAYER CAKE 
(See page 41.) 



^HE BOSTON COOKS' AIjIjIANCE certified that practical 
telts demonstrated that SLADE'S Spiees, Cream Tartar, 
MUstard ana Herba are superior to other brands and that 
thfey are the purest, strongest and best upon the market. 



Ihe international cooks and pastry cooks 

ASEOCIATION op NEW YORK certify that "To obtain 
tha beat results we use and recommend for use Sl-ADB'S 
Spices. We And them auperlor to all others." (Signed) 

ADOLPHB MEYER, Secretary, 



DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 



PROFESSOR AliLYN OF THF WFSTFIELD (MASS.) 

HOARD OF HEAI/TH has certified that BLADE'S SPICES 
and SPECIALTIES are abeolutetj' pure and excellent 





1 

BUS 



SLADE'S 

Flavoring Extracts 

Will be found unuaually 
pleaaInK- Thpy arc frpc from 
all artiUHal flavors, and are 
made from fresh fniits and 
oils; they are pure, true and 
good. 

D. & L. SLADE CO. 

BOSTON 



SLADE'S 

Quick Cooking 

TAPIOCA 



Cooks instantly, and makes delicious deiserts 

SLADE'S 
Salad Cream 

PURE AND PLEASING 

A most satisfying dressing for Salads, Sandwiches, 
Cold Meats, etc. 



