Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often diflicult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parlies, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the plus We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a b<x>k is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means il can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's hooks while helping authors ami publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull text of this book on I lie web 
at |http : //books . qooqle . com/| 



HARVARD UNIVERSITY 




LIBRARY OF THE 



GRADUATE SCHOOL 
OF EDUCATION 



SUPPLEMENTARY EDUCATIONAL MONOGRAPHS 

Published in conjunction with $" '/ $ V* ^ 7 

THE SCHOOL REVIEW and THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL JOURNAL 

Vol. II October 1920 

No. 6 Whole No. 1 4 



HOME ECONOMICS IN 
AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



By 
MABEL BARBArAtRILLING 

ETHELWYN MILLER Ci-XRA BLANCHE KNAPP 

LEONA FLORENCE BOWMAN VIOLA MARLA BELL 

FLORENCE WILLIAMS BERTHA MILLER RUGG 

with the collaboration of 

HAROLD ORDWAY RUGG 




THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 



PUBLICATIONS EDITED BY THE FACULTY OF THE SCHOOL 
OF EDUCATION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 



JOINT EDITORIAL COMMITTEE. 

' CHARLES HUBBARD JUDtf, Chairman 

, . l JOHN FRANKLIN BOBBITT 

: . SAMUEL CHESTER PARKER 

HENRY CLINTON MORRISON 
Articles and Editoriala of the School Review Articles and Editorial* of the 

ROLLO LA VERNE LYMAN • Elementary School Journal 

MORTON SNYDER FRANK NUGENT FREEMAN 

HARRY ORRIN GILLET 

Reviews Supplementary Educational Monographs 

GUY THOMAS BUSWELL WILUAM SCOTT GRAY 

ROLLA MILTON TRYON MARCUS WILSON JERNEGAN 



SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE ON CURRENT 

EDUCATIONAL PROBLEMS 

I * 4 

THE SCHOOL REVIEW 

THE School Review is an open forum for the discussion of progressive • 
movements in secondary education. It prints scientific studies in 
regard to the junior high school, supervised study, standards and tests, 
problems of organization and class instruction, etc. It presents practical 
material in the form of discussions of classroom methods and administrative 
devices. It includes a department of reviews which keeps the reader in touch 
with significant publications from month to month. 

• 

THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL JOURNAL 

THE Elementary School Journal emphasizes progressive movements in 
elementary education, publishes studies which contribute results of 
value to teachers, promotes the scientific study of school problems, and 
devotes much space to reviews of recent literature and to news notes on 
major movements in education. 

THE SUPPLEMENTARY EDUCATIONAL MONOGRAPHS 

THE Supplementary Educational Monographs present a body of scientific 
and practical material covering reading, arithmetic, penmanship, algebra, 
and the administrative organization of elementary schools and high 
schools. These represent a type of quantitative scientific material which is 
indispensable to the student of current educational problems and to the 
school administrator. The monographs include a series of significant historical 
surveys of American education. 



SUPPLEMENTARY EDUCATIONAL MONOGRAPHS 

Published in conjunction with 
THE SCHOOL REVIEW and THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL JOURNAL 

Vol. II October 1920 

No. 6 Whole No. 14 



HOME ECONOMICS IN 
AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



{ 



HOME ECONOMICS IN 
AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



a- 

MABEL BARBARA TRILLING 
ETHEL WYN MILLER CLARA BLANCHE KNAPP 

LEONA FLORENCE BOWMAN VIOLA MARIA BELL 
FLORENCE WILLIAMS BERTHA MILLER RUGG 

toilh Ike collaboration of 

HAROLD ORDWAY RUGG 



THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
CHICAGO. ILUNOIS 




TX /(oS 



I 



7 



HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION 



Copyright 1920 By 
The University av Chicago 



All Righto Reserved 



Published December 1920 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAGE 

List op Figures vii 

List op Tables ix 

List of Plates zi 

CHAPTXK 

I. Present Status of Home Economics i 

II. How Courses in Home Economics Are Organized: An 

Evaluation of Sequence and Emphasis .... 5 

III. Textbooks Influencing the Curriculum 20 

IV. Home Economics Textbooks: Technique and Information 

versus Thinking and Appreciation 28 

V. Inadequate Purposes for Teaching: The Mastery of Tech- 
nique and Information 53 

VI. New Purposes for Teaching: Training Powers of Thinking 

and Enjoyment - . . 69 

VII. Measuring the Results of Teaching in Textiles, Dress 

Design, Sewing, and House Planning 75 

VIII. Scales for Measuring Skill in Machine Sewing ... 100 

IX. A Program for the Scientific Study of Home Economics 

Education 115 

Index 123 



LIST OF FIGURES 

noumz paos 

i. Percentage of Schools in Which (A) Clothing Courses Are 
Introduced Prior to Food Courses, (B) Clothing and Food 
Courses Are Introduced at the Same Time, (C) Food Courses 
Are Introduced Prior to Clothing Courses .... 6 

2. Number of Schools Introducing Beginning Clothing and Food 

Courses in the Various . Grades of 67 School Systems 7 

3. Number of Schools Emphasizing Hand Sewing and Machine 

Sewing in the Various Grades of 67 School Systems xo 

4. Number of Schools Teaching Marketing in Various Grades 

of 67 School Systems 11 

5. Number of Schools Emphasizing Different Topics in Textile 

Study in the Various Grades of 67 School Systems . 13 

6. Number of Schools Emphasizing Different Topics in Food 

Study in the Various Grades of 67 School Systems . 14 

7. Percentage of High Schools and Elementary Schools Using 

Basic Texts and Reference Books in Clothing and Shelter 23 

8. Percentage of High Schools and Elementary Schools Using 

Basic Texts and Reference Books in Food .... 24 

9. Comparison of the Approximate Percentage of Emphasis 

in Clothing Books on (i) Information, and (2) Develop- 
ing Judgment or Problem-Solving Ability . . 35 

10. Amount of Space Estimated in Number of Words Given to 

Textiles in Textbooks 37 

11. Relative Amount of Space Given to (i) Art Principles 

Applied to Dress; (2) Commercial Patterns; (3) Drafting 

of Patterns 45 

12. The Extent to Which Various Aims Are Emphasized in City 

Courses of Study 58 

13. The Extent to Which Various Aims Are Emphasized in Home 

Economics Textbooks 59 

14. The Extent to Which Various Aims Are Emphasized in the 

Journal of Home Economics and in the Proceedings of the Lake 
Placid Conference on Home Economics 61 

• • 

vu 



viii LIST OF FIGURES 

15. The Extent to Which Various Aims Are Emphasized by Writers 

on General Education $ 4 

16. The Extent to Which Various Aims Are Emphasized in School 

Surveys 6 7 

17. A Scale of Difficulty or Value for the Various Parts of a 

Test go 

18. An Illustration of a Hypothetical Rectangular Distribu- 

tion of Children's Abilities g X 

19. Illustrations of the Shape of the Distribution of Human 

Traits 02 

20. The Distribution of the Intelligence of 1,458 Children 93 

21. Percentage of 1,896 Ten- Year-Old Boys Located in Each 

Grade, Salt Lake City Schools, May, 191 5 .93 

22. A Normal Probability Curve Illustrating the Theoretical 

Shape of the Distribution of Pupils' Abilities ... 94 

23. An Illustration of a More Accurate Scoring of Questions 

A, B, and C, the Scores Having Been Located on the 
Assumption that Pupils' Abilities Fit the Normal Curve . 95 

24. Distribution of Scores in Series A, B, and C Made by Pupils 

in Home Economics Tests ........ 97 

25. Distribution of the Averages of the Six Judgments on Ten- 

sion in French Seams and Hems io 6 

26. Distribution of the Averages of the Six Judgments on the 

Length of Stitch in the French Seams and Hems . 107 

27. Distribution of the Averages of the Six Judgments on Spacing 

in French Seams and Hems IQ g 

28. Distribution of the Averages of the Six Judgments on Con- 

structive Elements in French Seams and Hems ... 109 

29. Distribution of the Averages of the Six Judgments on Neat- 

ness in French Seams and Hems II0 

30. The Normal Probability Curve Superimposed upon the Curve 

Made by the Distribution of the Averages of the Judg- 
ments on the French Seams and Hems m 

31. An Illustration Showing What School Mark Should Be 

Assigned to a Particular Sample Which Was Given a 
Specific Score by the Use of the Scale When the Passing 
Marx Was Set at ii on the Scoring Scheme . .112 



LIST OF TABLES 

TABLX FAGB 

I. Extent of the Offering in Home Economics and House- 
hold Art in Number of Years of Woke Reported . 7 

II. Year of Sewing in Which Certain Projects Are Intro- 
duced in 67 Schools 15 

III. List of Projects Introduced Two or More Times in 

Different Sewing Courses of a School System . 16 

IV. Typical Population Groups 22 

V. Ten Most Commonly Used Books in Clothing and Shelter 25 

VI. Nine Most Commonly Used Books in Food ... 25 

VII. Percentage of 167 Cities Using Each of Ten Books 
Either as Basic Texts or as Reference Books in 
Clothing and Shelter, in Both High Schools and 
Elementary Schools 26 

VIII. Percentage of 167 Cities Using Each of Nine Books 
Either as Basic Texts or as Reference Books in 
Food, in Both High Schools and Elementary Schools 26 

IX. Headings under Which the Content of Textbooks on 

Clothing and Shelter Was Tabulated .... 30 

X. Headings under Which the Content of Textbooks on 

Food Was Tabulated 32 

XI. Percentage of Space in Each Book Analyzed Given to 

Textiles, Dress Design, Sewing, and House Planning 34 

XII. Emphasis Given in Clothing Books to Pure Skill, Skill 
and Problem-Solving, Information, and Problem- 
Solving 39 

XIJI. Average Emphasis Given to Types of Training in Text- 
books on Clothing 40 

XIV. Emphasis Given to Types of Training in High-School 

Sewing and Cooking Classes 40 

XV. Percentages of Space in Six Textbooks Given to Gen- 
eral Directions and Principles with the Percentages 

Given to Recipes 41 

ix 



X LIST OF TABLES 

TABLE PAGE 

XVI. Percentages of Food Texts Given to Skill, Informa- 
tion, and Reflective Thinking 42 

XVII. Percentages of Space in Each of Nine Food Books 
Given to Cooking, Nutrition, Marketing, Food Pro- 
duction, Sanitation, and Housewifery .... 48 

XVIII. Order in Which Principal Subjects Are Introduced in 
Five Commonly Used Textbooks Dealing with Various 
Phases of Clothing 49 

XIX. Order in Which Principal Subjects Are Introduced in 
Five Commonly Used Textbooks Dealing with Various 
Phases of Food 50 

XX. Order in Which Seven Main Topics Are Presented in 
the Teaching of Cooking in Six Commonly Used Text- 
books 50 

XXI. Number of Courses of Study in Which Each Aim Is Listed 

as One of the Aims of Instruction 57 

XXII. Number of Textbooks Specifically Stating in Preface 
or Elsewhere the Purposes of Instruction in Home 
Economics 59 

XXIII. Proportion of Specific Ams Classified in Four Groups 60 

I XXIV. Number of ' Times That Specific Types of Aims Are 

Listed by the Writers on General Education • % 63 

XXV. Number of Teachers Concurring in Each of the Various 

Aims in Home Economics 65 

XXVI. Number of Teachers Concurring in Each of the Various 

Aims in Household Art 65 

XXVII. Percentages of Agreements of Judges on Five Factors 104 

XXVIII. A Mark of General Excellence for a Piece of Work 105 

XXIX. Percentage of Samples on Which Six Out of Six Judges, 
Five Out of Six Judges, and Four Out of Six Judges 
Exactly Agreed in Scoring 106 



LIST OF PLATES 
HEMS 



PLATE 

I. Spacing 



II. Constructive Elements 

III. Constructive Elements— (Continued) 

IV. Neatness 
V. Tension 

VI. Length op Stitch 

FRENCH SEAMS 

VII. Spacing 
VIII. Constructive Elements 

IX. Neatness 

X. Tension 

XI. Length op Stitch 



XI 



/ 



CHAPTER I 

PRESENT STATUS OF HOME ECONOMICS 

The purpose of this monograph is to report the findings of a survey 
of the status of home economics in the public schools of the United 
States. The survey has included a quantitative study of existing courses 
in elementary and secondary schools, a minute analysis of the textbooks 
by which much of the teaching practice is controlled, and a thorough 
canvass of the literature of the subject in search of definite aims or 
objectives. In addition, this report sets forth the preliminary organiza- 
tion of tests in measuring skill in machine sewing, content and reason- 
ing tests in textiles and clothing, and a suggestive program for the 
reconstruction of the curriculum in home economics. 

The writers have prefaced the detailed report of their investigations 
by a brief discussion of the most important findings and corresponding 
outstanding needs in home economics education. 

The most striking facts revealed by the investigations herein reported 
may be summarized in these five statements: (i) there is little evidence 
of a continuous sequentially aitanged curriculum in the public schools; 
(2) teaching emphasis is placed on information and technique rather 
than on powers of thinking and judgment; (3) vague statements of 
aims and outcomes are prevalent which show the work to be controlled 
by an interest in subject-matter rather than by educational and psycho- 
logical motives; (4) there are few tests or scales with which to measure 
achievement or progress; (5) there is no definite program for curriculum- 
making. 

1. The curriculum situation. — A complete lack of sequence of sub- 
jects and gradation of material is revealed in the school courses; that 
is, there is lack of a continuous curriculum. A study of the order of 
projects utilized in various school grades illustrates concretely these 
statements. Complicated garments which involve complex knowledge 
and technique are made by pupils prior to more elementary ones; the 
same project in sewing is repeated in any one of a number of years. 
The present practice of introducing sewing from one to two years prior 
to the grosser skills that can be brought into food courses is also open 
to criticism. The reader will find in chapter ii a discussion of the 



2 HOME ECONOMICS EST AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

fundamental problems of sequence. Shall the order of subjects have an 
educational and mental basis or shall technical difficulties of construc- 
tion and mechanics alone control our decisions ? 

In discussing these questions concerning the curriculum this report 
makes use of quantitative procedure. Discussions are based upon care- 
ful interpretation of tabulations. These, in turn, rest upon as complete 
a use of scientific technique as it has been possible to develop in these 
preliminary stages of the work. Basic assumptions have been made 
that the textbook largely determines the course of study and that the 
work of teachers is strongly influenced by the content as it is laid down 
in various kinds of printed material. 

The salient characteristics of the curriculum are shown by a sum- 
mary, evaluating the contents of the most widely used textbooks. 
An unusually large number of books — 267 different textbooks^— was 
found to be used in the entire field. They include " encyclopedias/ ' 
manuals of reference, recipe books, compilations of directions for learn- 
ing the technique of sewing, books written for the college but used in 
high schools and elementary schools, and very few books, indeed, 
designed definitely for the school grades in which they are used. There 
is thus heterogeneity in organization and content of the curriculum. 
However, the curriculum is determined by relatively few books. Nine 
books in food and ten in clothing cover 95 per cent of the practice of 
our public schools. In brief, these are the points canvassed in detail 
in chapter iii. 

2. Teaching emphasis in home economics. — The second finding of 
the survey, that the teaching emphasis is on information and technique 
rather than on powers of thinking and judgment, is also based on the 
assumption that the thought of children and the energies of teachers are 
expended on those details to which textbooks pay attention. From 
analyses of textbooks and courses of study, this report presents definite 
answers to the questions: To what extent does the home economics 
curriculum provide for worth-while home-making skills ? Is the infor- 
mation acquired by the children of social value ? Is sufficient oppor- 
tunity provided for young people to develop powers of critical judgment ? 
Is there promise that instruction will result in real abilities of apprecia- 
tion and enjoyment ? Illustrations are presented which show that our 
public-school instruction is devoted primarily to two activities-: infor- 
mation-giving and the development of technique. Consequently, a 
minimum of opportunity is provided for training in judgment or think- 
ing. The facts cited cause us to raise serious questions as to whether 



PRESENT STATUS OF HOME ECONOMICS 3 

or not the information given in our courses is always of social value. 
For example, the results of quantitative tabulation point to the con- 
clusion that a minimum of training is given to forming standards of 
judgment with reference to art principles and that sewing dominates 
the clothing curriculum just as recipes control the teaching of foods. 

3. Current purposes for teaching. — The third finding is that the mas- 
tery of technique and information are the aims set forth by writers and 
teachers of home economics. The content of our courses is certain 
to be strongly influenced by the purposes held in mind in framing 
and teaching it. Just as our textbook material is permeated with an 
"information-giving" point of view, so our classroom instruction holds 
this purpose in the foreground. The home economics group should 
work toward the development of a new point of view respecting the 
fundamental purposes of teaching their subject. We shall be very 
critical of those aims which demand that girls be perfected in ability 
to cook and sew. If training of this sort robs them of opportunity 
for adequate training in the use of standards concerning the technique 
of housekeeping, the situation must be condemned in sweeping terms. 
It is much more vital for them to know how to choose wisely, to buy 
sanely, to plan and organize, and to learn to "appreciate" and "enjoy" 
thoroughly than it is to have developed a high degree of skill in perform- 
ing any of the mechanics of home-making. 

4. Standardized tests and scales in home economics. — To make home 
economics scientific one of the most pressing needs is the design and 
use of standardized tests and scales. By the report of illustrative tests in 
chapters vii and viii an attempt is made to show how this procedure will 
aid in the construction of a sound scheme of home economics education. 
If instruction is to eventuate in important abilities of thinking and enjoy- 
ment, it is clear that we can aid the process by the use of definite meas- 
uring instruments. Reasoning tests will not only differentiate between 
pupils of varying abilities, but they will also serve to focus the attention 
of teachers upon this outcome as the central function of teaching. 
Similarly, the design of information tests will expedite notably the 
movement for the standardization of minimum essentials in home 
economics and will at the same time serve as a very definite guide for 
the teacher. Furthermore, the design of scales for various kinds of 
skills — for example, ability in machine sewing — will aid both teacher 
and pupil. 

5. A program for curriculum-making and teaching procedure. — 
Finally, we need for the future to formulate a complete program for 



4 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

curriculum-making and teaching procedure. This program must be 
developed from all the other needs shown by the survey. Its first 
element should be a scheme of principles underlying the selection of 
subject-matter. Its second should be criteria to control the sequence 
of subjects within the various school grades. We need, further, a plan 
to control the emphasis that we place upon various outcomes and pur- 
poses in our class instruction, one that will make teachers conscious 
constantly of the imperative need of so framing class exercises that 
facts and habit-formation are subordinated to principle and so woven 
into class presentation as to develop thinking ability. Success in teach- 
ing rests primarily upon (i) the degree to which we learn to use a psy- 
chological approach to our subject; (2) the extent to which we study 
the mental life of children; and (3) the extent to which we frame our 
whole school procedure in accordance with scientific findings. Through- 
out this entire report, therefore, we shall talk much about "learning." 
The phrase "how children learn" will dominate our thinking in so far 
as the discussion affects the teaching phases of the matter. 

Another point in our program, therefore, is the formulation of 
machinery for scientific experimentation in teaching home economics. 
A platform should be developed from this for the construction of school 
textbooks. Fundamentally, our program should be built on educa- 
tional principles so that home economics will be equipped to justify its 
position on the ground of its intellectual value and social usefulness. 



CHAPTER II 

HOW COURSES IN HOME ECONOMICS ARE ORGANIZED: AN EVALUA- 
TION OF SEQUENCE AND EMPHASIS 

Public-school home economics means "sewing" and "cooking." 
Again and again the student of public-school teaching can observe that 
emphasis is placed, not on the varied, many-sided subject-matter urged 
by the college teacher of home economics, but upon these technical 
skills. 

In this chapter this fact is brought out by an analysis of actual 
courses of study, a profitable first step in the investigation of home 
economics instruction. Several hundred courses of study from city 
school systems in twenty- two states have been examined; of these, 
sixty-seven contained enough description of the home economics courses 
to present a typical picture of the work done in our public schools. 
These have been analyzed critically and tabulated in detail, and supply 
for the most part the basis for the statements made in this chapter 
concerning the scope and organization of home economics courses. 

In these sixty-seven courses of study one finds ample justification 
for the statement that the public schools are teaching home economics 
as so much sewing and cooking. While in the elementary school there 
are instances here and there where the sewing courses include some 
instruction in certain other subjects — in textiles, in costume design, in 
house furnishing and house planning — these subjects are clearly subor- 
dinated to the sewing. The attention of the household-art teacher is 
devoted primarily to teaching children how to sew. 

In the same fashion, the time of the "domestic science" teacher in 
the elementary school is spent primarily on instruction in cooking. 
Careful investigation of the courses used in public schools leaves little 
doubt that those who are engaged in administering the food work in 
home economics are concerned chiefly with the preparation of food 
according to recipes. Subordinated to this are other subjects, such as 
food production and manufacture, nutrition, meal planning, etc. Some 
slight attention is paid to buying. The all-important aim, however, as 
public-school instruction is now organized, is the acquisition of informa- 
tion concerning how to prepare food. Cooking instruction is not aimed 
so definitely at the development of skill in the preparation of food, as 



6 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

at the giving of information concerning how to prepare food. But 
more of this technique will be considered later. We are first concerned 
with the larger questions of organization and administration of courses. 
Sewing precedes cooking in the elementary curriculum. — This is one of 
the most important facts of organization observed in the analysis of the 
courses of study. As questions of the psychological arrangement of 
subject-matter are introduced, one is led to the conviction that the 
courses have been introduced with little thought of such problems. 
Clothing is introduced first in 58 per cent of the schools, and food study 
first in only 6 per cent. The remaining 36 per cent introduce the 
study of food and clothing at the same time (Fig. 1). 




A- 5 8% B-36% C-6% 

Fig. 1. — Percentage of schools in which (A) clothing courses are introduced prior 
to food courses, (B) clothing and food courses are introduced at the same time, (C) food 
courses are introduced prior to clothing courses. 



Distribution of beginning food and clothing courses. — There is far less 
uniformity in regard to the grade in which the subject is introduced 
than to the order in which the courses are begun. 

Figure 2 shows the number of schools that introduced beginning 
clothing courses and beginning food courses in each grade from the 
fourth to the tenth inclusive. Ten cities began home economics instruc- 
tion in the fourth grade with courses in sewing, nine in the fifth grade, 
sixteen in the sixth grade, sixteen in the seventh grade, two in the 
eighth, and three in the ninth grade. Similarly only two cities introduced 
food courses as early as the fifth grade, ten as early as the sixth, twenty- 
five in the seventh, fourteen in the eighth, etc. Figure 2 is also of 
interest in showing that there is very little agreement as to the proper 
place to introduce the study of either food or clothing. Clearly there 
is no uniformity in the general practice of organizing courses within the 
elementary and secondary schools. 

Amount of time aUoted to home economic courses. — Table I from 
Professor Koos's report, showing the number of years devoted to home 
economics in different schools, strikingly confirms this lack of uniform 
procedure. 



HOW COURSES ARE ORGANIZED 



There are three distinct modes in the number of years of work 
which are offered by city systems: 10 schools out of 63 offer 1 year; 
19 offer 2 years; n offer 4; 5 scattering ones offer from 4! to 8. If 



Number of 
Schools 



Grades 4 




5 6 

Beginning clothing courses 



Beginning food courses 

Fig. 2. — Number of schools introducing beginning clothing and food courses in 
the various grades of 67 school systems. 

one can discover a modal procedure, it is that two-year courses are 
offered more frequently than any other, yet a fairly considerable num- 
ber of schools are now giving instruction in home economics through 

four years of school. 

TABLE I 

Extent or the Offering in Home Economics and Household Art in Number 

of Years of Work Reported 



Years of Work 
I 

ii • 

2 

2\ ■ 

3 • 
4 
4l • 

U : 

8 



Number of Schools 
IO 

• • 3 
. . 19 

• • 3 
. . 6 

. n 

1 

1 

1 

2 



Not making usable replies 6 

Total number responses to questionnaire . . 63 



8 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

It is impossible to tell from Koos's report in which of the grades the 
work is organized. We assume, however, that most of his references have 
to do with grades nine to twelve inclusive. From the study of his 
own questionnaires he comments on the frequency with which city 
systems present home economics work in combination courses. He 
says, "These combination courses may be limited to one year, or they 
may continue through two years, and the practice is followed even in 
third- and fourth-year courses, as may be seen in the following illustra- 
tions: one school offers a course in laundry and dressmaking in the 
third year; another, a course in millinery, dressmaking, laundry, and 
dietetics in the fourth year; still another a course in sanitation, home 
management, and art needlework in the third year." 1 This also illus- 
trates the lack of standardization of courses as well as of terminology. 

One of the most important findings, therefore, from the investiga- 
tion of the city courses of study, is the general practice of introducing 
sewing or clothing courses while the child is in the earlier grades, with 
the work in food or cooking following this by at least two years. Cer- 
tainly this practice is in distinct opposition to what would be expected 
from a psychological study of the mental processes called into play in 
the two kinds of courses. The distribution of such courses should 
recognize basic facts of children's physical and mental development. 
It appears to be a well-established principle that young children should 
not be asked to perform manual activities which require a fine muscular 
co-ordination. It is doubtful whether the pupil's physical development 
in the early grades is such that these tasks can be performed without 
strain. In his early years he is best adapted to performing the grosser 
muscular activities. Hence there is justification for questioning the 
tendency in home economics to introduce sewing one to two years 
before cooking. The skill required in cooking is of a grosser type than 
that required in sewing. Yet nineteen schools require children to 
devote definite periods in school to sewing in the fourth and fifth grades 
as contrasted with two schools which require them to cook in the fifth 
grade. 

Furthermore, observation shows that young children are more 
interested in the cooking class than in the sewing class. The reason is 
not hard to find. Young children like activities which bring quick 
returns. The nature of sewing is such, on the one hand, that the child 

'Koos, L. V., The Administration of Secondary-School Units. Supplementary 
Educational Monographs, Vol. I, No. 3, pp. 127-31. Chicago: University of 
Chicago Press, 191 7. 



HOW COURSES ARE ORGANIZED 9 

must wait during many lessons, perhaps throughout the whole term, 
before she has one completed article. Interest lags and learning is 
hampered. On the other hand, cooking is of such a nature that immedi- 
ate returns can be secured. 

For these reasons, it is difficult to see why public-school adminis- 
trators have ordained that sewing courses nearly always precede cook- 
ing courses by from one to two years. It would seem logical, when 
the curriculum permits only one course to be given at a time, that 
cooking should be given first. No added equipment would be neces- 
sary. All that is necessary is to change the order of things. Let the 
fifth and sixth grades use the cooking equipment and the seventh and 
eighth grades the sewing equipment. Only four schools out of sixty* 
seven whose courses were analyzed do not offer cooking. In the other 
sixty-three schools it should be possible to reverse the order of the 
beginning courses in cooking and sewing as suggested above. This 
reverse order, that is, with cooking introduced first, is now prevalent 
in only 6 per cent of the schools (Fig. 1). 

The introduction of topics within subjects. — Not only the distri- 
bution of the food and clothing courses but also the distribution of 
various topics or phases of subject-matter within each field needs 
consideration. For example, there are the problems of teaching hand 
sewing, machine sewing, textile production, facts about textiles "for 
consumers," sanitary handling of food, marketing, and such topics. 
They must be taught in their proper sequence at the period when they 
are most interesting to the child and at the period when they are best 
adapted to his abilities. Space in this chapter will not permit a detailed 
consideration of each phase of subject-matter. A few typical examples, 
however, may be chosen for discussion, comments being based on the 
tabulation of the content of these sixty-seven courses of study. 

EXAMPLES OF CURRENT PRACTICES IN PRESENTING SUBJECT-MATTER 

i. Hand sewing versus machine sewing. — The question of hand 
sewing versus machine sewing has long been discussed among home 
economics teachers. The consensus of opinion is that hand sewing 
should be emphasized but little, and that machine sewing should 
receive much attention. Three arguments are offered in support of this 
recommendation: First, hand sewing requires girls to make a fine 
muscular co-ordination, which is frequently a real physical strain. 
Machine sewing does not require so detailed a muscular control. Sec- 
ondly, hand sewing does not offer as great an opportunity for mental 



IO 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



training as does machine sewing. The argument is advanced that the 
repetition of the same stitch over and over again, which is necessary in 
making a garment by hand, does not have the educational value that 
the construction of two garments or more by the more rapid process 
of the machine would have. Thirdly, it is very difficult to find definite 
social value for hand sewing. In these days people do not have the 
many hours required to make garments by hand. Fewer and fewer 
garments are being made in the home, and of those which are made in 
the home, practically all are machine made. 

Number of 
Schools 

30 



as 



20 



25 



10 







^^^ 




i 


> 














1 


\ 
\ 














i 
/ 
/ 


\ 
\ 














t 

/ > 
/ / 


i \ 
\ \ 










s 




f / 


\ \ 








> 


' 


yv 


> I 


\ \ 
\ \ 








/ 

/ 








\ \ 








/ 










\ 






/ 










S 






/ 










m 






/ 










""•*»,^ 




/ 
















f 















Grades 4 



8 



10 



11 



12 



Hand sewing 



— — - - Madiiae sewing 

Fig. 3. — Number of schools emphasizing band sewing and machine sewing in the 
various grades of 67 school systems. 

Yet the practice in the public schools emphasizes hand sewing 
Figure 3 shows the grades in which courses in hand sewing and machine 
sewing are introduced. It will be noted that many more school systems 
introduce hand sewing in the fourth, fifth, and sixth grades than 
machine sewing. Only two introduce machine sewing in the fifth 
grade. This figure is contrasted with fourteen school systems which 
by the end of the sixth grade have offered instruction in machine sewing. 
In 14 per cent of the schools the teaching of machine sewing is not 
mentioned at all. In the high-school years machine sewing is empha- 
sized. It is not contended that no hand sewing should be taught. 
A minimum of instruction in this subject probably always will be 



HOW COURSES ARE ORGANIZED 



II 



necessary. Of fundamental concern, however, are the major emphasis 
and distribution of time- throughout the course. If the sixty-seven 
courses of study which were analyzed may be taken as indicative of the 
general practice, there is need for an immediate and thorough revision. 
2. The teaching of intelligent buying. — It doubtless will be agreed 
generally by home economics teachers that public schools should develop 
in the children those abilities of judgment which are involved in intel- 
ligent buying. The development of "consumers'" judgment is a 
prominent aim today. At the present time, however, only 40 per cent 
of the courses of study indicate any instruction in buying, marketing, 
or costs of food. Figure 4 shows the general tendency through the 

Number of 
Schools 

30 



IS 



xo 























»^ 







































Grades 5 



8 



xo 



XI 



xa 



Fig. 4. — Number of schools teaching marketing in various grades of 67 school 
systems. 



grades of the teaching of marketing. There is a slight tendency to. 
place it somewhere from the seventh to the tenth school years. This 
lack of emphasis upon problems of buying reflects the general tendency 
for public-school courses to be concerned with skill and routine informa- 
tion and not with the fundamental social abilities which involve trained 
judgment. We shall comment upon this in various sections of this 
monograph. Figure 4 also shows that there is a very distinct tendency 
not to teach buying at all in the upper grades. Were it not for the 
important question of elimination of children in the junior high-school 
grades, it would seem wise that these problems of buying should be 
discussed in the upper high-school grades. As girls grow older, they 
are better equipped and more interested in this problem of buying, more 
likely to be in touch with financial affairs of the home and to have a 



12 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

better idea of the value of money. Yet the subject should most cer- 
tainly not be wholly omitted in the lower grades. 

The tendency to ignore educational outcomes in constructing a 
course of study in home economics may be illustrated in many ways. 
For example, a definite statement is found in the printed course of 
study of one large school system that "only the teacher shall regulate 
the tension and length of stitch in machine sewing." Very likely 
this ruling was made in the desire to have the girls turn out only 
good technical work. From the standpoint of learning, however, such a 
procedure inhibits any possibility of having the pupils learn to operate 
a sewing-machine successfully. If even the rudimentary principles of 
machine operation which are to be taught can be used in the home 
activities of these girls, we should be teaching them under the same 
conditions of actual learning and doing which they will meet in their 
own practical home work. 

Another point needing discussion in this connection is the extent 
to which these topics of economics of the home should be taught in sub- 
jects other than home economics. There is distinct overlapping here 
between the field of home economics and that of the social studies, 
general economics, and to some extent the commercial courses. Subse- 
quent sections of this monograph urge the need of a careful considera- 
tion of this whole question of overlapping of content of the school 
subjects, especially in the intermediate grades. 

3. Types of material emphasized in teaching textiles. — As the courses 
of study were analyzed, the material that pertains to textiles was 
divided into three general fields: (1) historical data concerning the 
textile industry; (2) data concerning the production and manufacture of 
textiles; and (3) facts for consumers concerning textiles. Figure 5 
shows how these three kinds of textile materials are emphasized in 
schools. It is clearly to the credit of the supervisors who made the 
courses of study that so little emphasis is given to the history of textiles. 
It should be said that this material was introduced in these schools 
primarily because historical summaries are included in the textbooks. 
From the standpoint of social use it seems wise to omit the history of 
textiles, especially if the time given to home economics courses is limited. 
At the same time, we believe that certain historical facts of interest and 
importance to a clear understanding of home economics should be 
taught either in history courses or in courses in social studies. It is 
also gratifying to note that in only one city is the history of textiles 
taught in a home economics course which does not also touch upon 



HOW COURSES ARE ORGANIZED 



13 



other phases of textile study. Clearly textile facts for consumers will 
be more worth while from the standpoint of social use than will the 
history of textiles. 

Production and manufacture are overemphasized to the neglect of 
"consumers' facts." As indicated in the figure, our analysis shows 
that twice as many schools teach the production and manufacture of 
textiles in the lower grades as teach textile facts for consumers. The 
two subjects are taught above the ninth grade in about the same num- 
ber of schools. We agree with the general practice to the extent that 

Number of 
Schools 




Grades 4 



Production and manufacture of textile* 

Textile facts for consumers 

History of textile industry 

Fig. 5. — Number of schools emphasizing different topics in textile study in the 
various grades of 67 school systems. 



a certain amount of material concerning the production and manufacture 
of textiles should be taught for a clear understanding of the wise con- 
sumption of textiles. Yet the question is pertinent whether it is 
necessary to teach the production and manufacture of textiles to fourth-, 
fifth-, sixth-, and seventh-grade children before introducing such topics 
as " testing for adulteration," "kinds of fabrics," etc., which are classified 
under "textile facts for consumers." Yet in about 50 per cent of the 
schools the study of textiles is so arranged. This is probably due in 
part to the fact that supervisors are handicapped by the dearth of 
textbooks which give material on "textile facts for consumers" for the 
elementary grades. If the teacher wishes to emphasize this phase of 
the work she literally must make her own text or outlines, and give all 



H 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



the necessary information to the children in lecture or mimeographed 
form. This suggests that there is a very great need for an appropriate 
text in textiles for the elementary schools. 

4. Food classification and composition versus general principles of 
cooking. — Figure 6 shows the number of schools which are teaching 
food composition and classification, nutrition, and general principles 
of cooking. in various grades from the fifth to the twelfth inclusive. 
The three curves are very nearly coincident. With respect to these 

Number of 
Schools 



Grades 5 




Food composition and classification 



Nutrition 

General principles of cooking 

Fig. 6. — Number of schools emphasizing different topics in food study in the 
various grades of 67 school systems. 



three elements in the general curriculum, practice has become very 
uniform. Such a figure, however, does not enable us to form any other 
definite conclusions. 

5. Order of projects shows no regard for "sequence." — A fundamental 
criterion of organization of subject-matter in a course should be that 
the material is arranged in such sequential form that both technical 
difficulties and difficulties of a distinctly mental character are carefully 
graduated. One is amazed to find the chaotic condition of home eco- 
nomics with respect to the gradation of projects. Table II shows that 



HOW COURSES ARE ORGANIZED 



IS 



i»A qwnoj | 



«i <i ct 



■ • 



*»A P*FIL | M *° ^ M M 



CI • M M M 



j»APoo»S | E 



tOO O W)« toOO n « iow>« 



»AWI | *§ 



&o m to " oo w m moo ci m 



2 



I 



v© 



as 



9 

« 

< 

O 

at 

M 

B 

o 



§ 



- -^ II J : 

~m g.s.s-f'3 
ffflflllllll 



a .1 

"53 o*«j 5 

*CJ «t *. «s 



j»A<?*"w>i 



*»AI«RX 



JWApoo»s 



N M N 



w> **■ «0 « f> «0 ^t<0 



« M 



« M 



M CI O 



«»AWnj | 



O fONN POO •-» ©k « O* ©v 

M M M M CI 



«n 

M 

a 

« 
< 





ill p-ili 

7-i ,9 ,°. J5 E s « » » B 



i»A «fl™i | 



^H N 



n 



n»AP*FlL 



eo «*5»0 m 



J»APM09S 



J»A*«M 



o ▼ o *^o 



Ot c*» cooo oo o 



H 

to 

O 

51 



n 

M 




NUMBU. OP 

Schools 


j^ A qv~>j 




"»APiRL 


• ►« *0 • 'WmO • m m « c« • • • ^ co « w 

H4 • • • 


J«A PV033§ 


m © w N <*)fO W)«00 f)fO^W5« « fO*0«*3 m to*"* 


j»A 1"U 


MO MM M 



V) 

H 
t 

< 



If &i 



.■i* 



m* m> m » fla ai 



„ „ „ M^^ g : 8-5 Cjg 

2 2 2 & oB oB b© o d, da 6 



bo 



CO 

«§ : 



22 

• M 



g g 3h 



•J 



4> 






o rt C 



bO 

a 

1 



8. 



3 9 
■81 

"8 J 



313 2 ^^ 



13 

=4 a 

• M »M 
M4 0h 



JB-3 



V 4> 

is * 



i6 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



any project of sewing may be taught in any year. For example, nine 
city systems have the cooking apron made in the first year of sewing; 
nine systems have it in the second year, and ten in the third year. It 
is not conceivable that cooking aprons can vary so in form of construc- 
tion and degree of difficulty that they are equally well adapted to first, 
second, and third years of sewing. There is also considerable repetition 
from year to year in a single school. Table III shows the tabulation 

TABLE III 

List of Projects Introduced Two or More Times in Different 

Sewing Courses of a School System 





Years or Sewing in Which Same Project Is Taught 


Projects 


School A 


School B 


School C 


School D 


ADron. sewing 


1-2 

1-2 . 

1-2 

i-3 
1-2-3 

1-2 
1-2 

i-3 


1—4. 


2-A 




Bag, sewing 


m T — T 




Buttonholes 


2—Z— C 1—A. 




Chemise 


o o 






Crocheting 


1-4 

1-2 

2-3 

1—2 






Darning 






Dress, cotton 


i-3 


1-4 


Middy blouse 


Nightgown 


1-3 


1-2 









of projects which were introduced twice or more in the different sewing 
courses of the same school system. For example, the nightgown is made 
during each of the first three years of sewing in two school systems, and 
in the first and second years of sewing in another system. In each 
case the garment was a kimono nightgown. It is hardly possible for 
two kimono nightgowns to be so different in form of construction that 
one is suited in degree of difficulty to the first and the other to the 
third or second year of sewing. The need for investigation and reor- 
ganization of our courses on a thoroughgoing basis of increasing difficulty 
to the learner is apparent. At present there is no established order of 
projects. The sequence of projects is clearly in a chaotic condition. 
Courses should be arranged so that there is increasing difficulty 
for the learner — that the pupil may always find a real mental "pull" 
in the subject-matter of successive grades. Clothing courses are of 
such a nature that they depend not only on the informational content 
but also on the projects which are used to carry out the basic aim of 
developing ability to plan, lay out, and complete independently the 
original construction of a garment. Undoubtedly certain forms of con- 



HOW COURSES ARE ORGANIZED 17 

struction are more difficult from the standpoint of technique and from 
the standpoint of comprehension of the construction. The technical 
work in the project, objective in character, can be measured accord- 
ingly. On the other hand, the comprehension of the form of construc- 
tion, subjective in character, is difficult to measure. For example, the 
construction of a middy blouse is more difficult to understand than the 
construction of an apron. 

When one turns to the planning and making of other more com- 
plicated garments, differences in difficulty for the learner are less clear. 
It is not so easy to determine which is the more difficult for the learner 
to understand, construction of a kimono sleeve or of a set-in sleeve. 
In each case the understanding of the construction must be considered 
apart from the difficulty of mere making. It is, of course, easier for 
the learner to make the kimono sleeve than the set-in sleeve. Is it, 
however, easier to understand the construction of the kimono sleeve as 
the pattern is laid out on the material ? 

Shall projects be graded on a basis of increasing technical difficulties 
or in terms of increasing comprehension or mental difficulties? This 
is a basic question concerning the arrangement of home economics 
material. Whatever may be the answer to this question, the present 
writers are clear in their criticism that the present organization of home 
economics courses is not one of graded sequence. The following quota- 
tions from courses of study indicate the general practice: "Much the 
same work in the eighth as in the seventh grade, only more theory." 
"The scope of the work in the sixth grade is much the same as in the 
fifth grade." In one course of study it is stated, "The girls may choose 
between making a child's dress, a towel, and a napkin." Although this 
is an extreme example, it is apparent that the designers of public- 
school courses have given little thought to the striking differences in 
difficulty of learning and in educational value of such types of subject- 
matter. Apparently not even the slightest regard has been given in 
many of our city courses of study to this important question of 
sequence. 

Thus we have summarized by five different types of examples the 
general situation with respect to the organization of home economics 
courses in the public-school grades. The conclusion appears to be 
direct: Movements should be inaugurated, through conference and dis- 
cussion in teachers' associations and in the home economics press, for 
the thorough-going overhauling of the administration of courses that 
deal with food, clothing, and shelter. 



1 8 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

HOW THE COLLEGES CLASSIFY THE FIELD 

The lack of agreement in thinking concerning even the scope of the 
field is illustrated very well by the different methods in which the field 
is organized and distributed by our various higher educational institu- 
tions. Certain colleges — for example, Teachers College — describe the 
field as that of "household arts," and differentiate the two major sub- 
divisions of the field as "domestic science" and "domestic art." The 
University of Chicago describes the field somewhat more in accordance 
with the suggestions of the American Home Economics Association as 
"home economics," and divides it into five sections: (i) home economics 
education, (2) food and nutrition, (3) household art, (4) home manage- 
ment, (5) institutional economics. The University of Minnesota de- 
scribes the whole field as that of "home economics" and breaks this 
up into (1) food, (2) textiles and clothing, (3) institutional management. 
In the Oregon Agricultural College the scheme is as follows: home 
economics, with the subdivisions of domestic science, domestic art, 
home administration, and institutional management. 

In our study of the literature of home economics and of the textbooks 
and books on the teaching of the subject, we have found this same 
chaotic condition of terminology prevalent. It is very clear, indeed, 
that the home economics group should move in the direction of stand- 
ardizing the terminology as well as the scope of its field and organization. 
As it was stated in the beginning, the aims of instruction as stated 
by the college leaders who are training public-school teachers of home 
economics are often much broader than the practice of the public-school 
teachers themselves. Home economics to the former generally means 
much more than the study of sewing and cooking. The broader point 
of view can be illustrated from quotations from a very recent book on 
Teaching Home Economics. 1 

Home economics is a subject that centeis around the problems of the home 
and the other institutions whose problems are of similar nature. It includes 
a study of food, shelter, and clothing viewed from the standpoint of hygiene, 
economics, and art, and a study of the relations of the members of the family 
to each other and to society. This is a very broad conception of the mean- 
ing of home economics studies, for so often they mean merely cooking or 
sewing in the girl's program. 

In addition these writers state: 

It is true that this field of education for the home has no common ter- 
minology. It would probably be very helpful if it had. This lack of common 

« Coolcy, Anna M., Winchell, Cora M., Spohr, Wilhelmina H., and Marshall, 
Josephine A., Teaching Home Economics. New York: Macmillan Co., 1919. 



HOW COURSES ARE ORGANIZED 19 

terms leads to a great deal of confusion, especially as much state legislation 
is being enacted in relation to the teaching of home subjects in schools and it 

is often extremely difficult to interpret the various laws In some 

states the term "domestic science" means cooking, while in others it is used 
to cover the entire field of education for the home, that is, it includes such 
subjects as dressmaking, textiles, household management and housewifery, 
household sanitation, and cooking. Under other laws domestic economy is 
the inclusive term, or household economics or home economics. 

1 

These writers argue definitely for a common terminology. To 
this argument the writers of the present monograph subscribe heartily. 

There can be little doubt, therefore, that some college workers in 
viewing their problems see the scope of home economics as a large and 
intensive field of education for young women — doubtless, also, to some 
extent for the education of young men. We would lay stress on one 
phase of the definition given above. It includes not only a study of 
food, shelter, and clothing, but also "a study of the relations of the 
members of the family to each other and to society." Analysis of the 
curriculum materials in public-school courses today leads to the con- 
clusion that scarcely a beginning has been made in the direction of 
carrying this larger aim into the work. 



CHAPTER HI 

TEXTBOOKS INFLUENCING THE CURRICULUM 

Thus far we have presented a sketch of the general organization of 
courses in home economics. Our analysis must be carried more inten- 
sively into a survey of the concrete details of the curriculum itself. To 
do this one should analyze textbooks. In the past few years it has been 
clearly established that for definite knowledge concerning the content of 
our courses of instruction critical examination should be made of the 
printed materials which are used in the courses. We have already reported 
the analysis that was made of city courses of study. One striking conclu- 
sion from this analysis is that much of the printed material of this sort 
consists so completely of vague generalities as to tell us almost nothing 
as to the actual content of the curriculum itself. In collecting informa- 
tion concerning courses of study from several hundred cities we asked 
supervisors to send us copies of typewritten or mimeographed subject- 
matter used in their instruction. Very little material was received in 
answer to such requests. We conclude, therefore, that the subject- 
matter of home economics is still represented largely by three types of 
material: (i) by the content of textbooks used in the elementary and 
secondary grades; (2) by the content of reference books; or (3) by the 
content of books with which supervisors and teachers had been trained 
in their college work, and upon which they were forced to depend for 
the mere subject-matter of their curriculum. 

Method of determining which textbooks are most commonly used. — To 
discover those books which are influencing the curriculum, the question 
blank reproduced on page 21 was sent to 300 cities, including two in 
every state. Most of the cities were above 15,000 inhabitants; a few 
smaller ones, however, are included. Two forms were sent. On 
Form I, which is reproduced here, data were collected for the elementary 
grades; on Form II, data were collected for the high-school grades, 
nine to twelve, inclusive. 

Care was taken to define the exact grade limit so that the introduc- 
tion of the junior high-school scheme would not confuse the interpreta- 
tion of returns and to distinguish between books in the hands of pupils 
used as " basic texts" and books which were used as supplementary or 
reference material in the grade rooms or in the school library. The 

20 



TEXTBOOKS INFLUENCING THE CURRICULUM 



I 1 

Sis 



1 f 

f I i 
I 11 






s 1 I 1 

£ a £ a 



I i 



22 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



nine headings of the question blank illustrate the basic " courses" or 

"subjects" which the analysis of city courses of study showed to be the 

most frequent scheme of classification. 

Returns were received from 167 cities in 41 states. Exception might 

be taken to this small number, but it has been found from other similar 

surveys that the use of a small group of cities, if well selected, gives a 

true picture of the practice of the entire country. We give in Table IV 

the names of cities which are typical of the various population groups 

included within our study; those having a population above 300,000; 

100,000 to 300,000; 50,000 to 100,000; 15,000 to 50,000, and under 

15,000. 

TABLE IV 

Typical Population Groups 



Over 300,060 in Population 

Los Angeles, California 
San Francisco, California 
Chicago, Illinois 
Baltimore, Maryland 
Boston, Massachusetts 
Detroit, Michigan 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
Newark, New Jersey 
Buffalo, New York 
Cleveland, Ohio 

50,000 to 1004000 in Population 

Mobile, Alabama 
Hartford, Connecticut 
Evansville, Indiana 
Des Moines, Iowa 
Portland, Maine 
Manchester, New Hampshire 
Yonkers, New York 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
Paw tucket, Rhode Island 



Under 15,000 in Population 

Phoenix, Arizona 
Twin Falls, Idaho 
Waterville, Maine 
Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan 
Stillwater, Minnesota 
Billings, Montana 
Webb City, Missouri 
Hudson, New York 



100,000 to 300,000 in Population 

Grand Rapids, Michigan 
St. Paul, Minnesota 
Kansas City, Missouri 
Omaha, Nebraska 
Jersey City, New Jersey 
Columbus, Ohio 
Dayton, Ohio 
Memphis, Tennessee 
Spokane, Washington 

15,000 to 50.000 in Population 

Little Rock, Arkansas 
Berkeley, California 
Pasadena, California 
Stockton, California 
Colorado Springs, Colorado 
Meriden, Connecticut 
Pensacola, Florida 
Cedar Rapids, Iowa 
Aurora, Illinois 
Joliet, Illinois 
Oak Park, Illinois 
Rockford, Illinois 
Newport, Kentucky 
Lewis ton, Maine 
Waltham, Massachusetts 
New Rochelle, New York 
Poughkeepsie, New York 
Charlotte, North Carolina 
Durham, North Carolina 
Chattanooga, Tennessee 
El Paso, Texas 



TEXTBOOKS INFLUENCING THE CURRICULUM 23 

Extent to which public-school instruction in home economics is based on 
the textbook. — On studying the tabulated returns of the questionnaires 
one is impressed, first, by the fact that 100 per cent of the high schools* 
are using basic texts or reference books. Equally important is the fact 



High school* uiinf batlc una Elementary tc 



High schools minx reference books Element*!}' schooli using reference took* 

Fig. 7. — Percentage of high schools and elementary schools using basic texts and 
reference books in clothing and shelter. 

that in the elementary grades public-school workers in home economics 
are just beginning to use textbooks. In clothing only 15 per cent of the 
elementary schools use basic texts. In food, the situation is slightly better, 
for more than one-third of the cities use basic texts, while approximately 
two-thirds use either basic texts or reference books (Figs. 7 and 8). 



24 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

Conditions in the elementary grades should be modified. — From whatever 
angle we study the problem of the organization of home economics courses, 
we come back to the theme that we have not a continuous home economics 
curriculum in the elementary grades. The present writers believe that 



nfeienca book*. 



High Kboob mint reference book* EtsmcnUry tdwolj nrini reference book* 

Fir. 8. — Percentage of high schools and elementary schools using basic texts 
and reference books in food. 

the practical development of a course of study which is continuous 
through the grades depends upon the development of elementary-school 
books suited to the various stages of the growth of children. It is very 
clear, indeed, that city supervisors of home economics are unable to find 
textbooks which are adapted to their work. 



Textbooks influencing the curriculum 25 

TEXTBOOKS USED 

The reader will be startled to find that a total of 267 different books 
was reported as used in different school systems. Of these 267 books, 
123 are used either as reference or as basic texts in clothing and shelter, 
while 144 are used in the study of food. Yet only a few books really 
control the course of study, for, of the total 267, 19 determine more 
than 95 per cent of the practice of the country. Of these, 10 are used 
in clothing and 9 in food. Eight of the 19 are also used as reference books 
in those high schools which do not use basic texts. Tables V and VI 
give the titles and authors of the books. 

TABLE V 

Ten Most Commonly Used Books in Clothing and Shelter 

Baldt, Laura I., Clothing for Women 

Bevier, Isabel, The House 

Dooley, William H., Textiles 

Fales, Jane, Dressmaking 

Gibbs, Charlotte M., Household Textiles 

Hapgood, Olive C, School Needlework 

Izor, Estelle Peel, Costume Design and Home Planning 

Kinne and Cooley, Clothing and Health 

Kinne and Cooley, Shelter and Clothing 

Woolman and McGowan, Textiles: A Handbook for Student and Consumer 

TABLE VI 

Nine Most Commonly Used Books in Food 

Bailey, Pearl L., Domestic Science Principles and Application 

Conley, Emma, Nutrition and Diet 

Greer, Carlotta C, Textbook of Cooking 

Kinne and Cooley, Foods and Household Management 

Morris, Josephine, Household Science and Diet 

Rose, Mary S., Feeding the Family 

Sherman, Henry C, Food Products 

Wellman, Mabel T., Food Study 

Williams and Fisher, Theory and Practice of Cookery 

College books used in the high school. — As evidenced by this study, 
identical textbooks are used in a number of cases in the elementary 
grades, in the various years of the high school, and in college. High- 
school girls and students in the various years of college are not only 
reading the same subject-matter, but they are also engaged in learning 
and repeating the same skills and in constructing the same projects. This 



26 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



situation cannot be condemned in too rigorous a fashion. In the early 
establishment of school subjects in the curriculum it has always been the 
case that books definitely planned for college students have been used in 
part or entirely in the high school. The same practice exists in home 
economics. Three of the ten most commonly used clothing books were 
planned for college readers, according to the statements of authors in 
the prefaces. Of the books on food used as "textbooks," one on nutri- 
tion was written as a " reference book." It is a very technical treatise. It 
could most conveniently be used as a reference book for college students* 
yet we find that this book is used in both high schools and elementary 

TABLE VII 

Percentage of 167 Cities Using Each of Ten Books Either as Basic Texts 
or as Reference Books in Clothing and Shelter, in Both High 

Schools and Elementary Schools 



Textbooks 


Basic Texts 


Rbfebence Books 


High School 


Elementary School 


High School 


Elementary Schoo 


A 


61 

27 

9 

2 

3 
10 


24 

12 


26 
52 
17 


42 

30 
3 

14 
3 


B 


c 


D 


28 


E 


11 
14 


F 


4 
16 


G 




H 


16 
12 
20 


11 
12 
40 


5 


I 


4 


J 


16 









TABLE VIII 

Percentage of 167 Cities Using Each of Nine Books Either as Basic Texts 
or as Reference Books in Food, in Both High Schools 

and Elementary Schools 



• 

TtfTWVW c 


Basic Texts 


RSFKBJBNCE BOOKS 


A UllsWU 


High School 


Elementary School 


High School 


Elementary School 


A 


17.0 

8.8 

18.4 


132 


8.0 
11. 7 
29.4 
35-0 

0.9 
27.0 




B 


12 .0 


c 


ft ss 


3-5 


D 


4.7.6 TO T 


35.0 


E 


*T# • w 


18 


23.0 


F 


18.8 

4-9 

IO.8 




12.0 


G 


2.0 


3-5 


H 


I2 .8 0.7 


I 


8.0 


x 4-7 5.2 






7-1 


21 .O 



TEXTBOOKS INFLUENCING THE CURRICULUM 27 

schools as a reference book and occasionally as a textbook 1 In general, 
however, the adaptation of subject-matter to the general maturity of the 
student is better in the field of food than it is in that of clothing. In 
the latter field the three college texts referred to above are being used in 
a large percentage of the elementary schools which use basic texts. This 
reveals not only the great dearth of adequate elementary-schoolbook 
material, but also the uncritical attitude with which public-school people 
select home economics books. 

The extent to which these textbooks are used is set forth in Tables 
VII and VTII. The letters and numbers which represent the texts in 
these tables do not correspond to the arrangement of authors' names in 
Tables V and VI. 

It is assumed that the point of view and teaching emphasis in home 
economics is reflected adequately by the content of these nineteen text- 
books and supplementary references. Therefore, for a discussion of the 
curriculum we turn to an analysis of the books. 



CHAPTER ly 

HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS: TECHNIQUE ANI> INFORMATION 

VERSUS THINKING AND APPRECIATION 

One of the most important practices contributed recently l>y the 
quantitative movement in education has been the careful tabulation 
and scrutiny of the contents of school textbooks. Those engaged in this 
work have been much concerned with the answer to questions such as 
the following. In raising them here, we have in mind their application to 
the field of home economics. 

i. To what extent does the home-economics curriculum provide for 
worth-while home-making "skills" ? 

2. Is the time of children in home economics classes devoted to 
acquiring information of social value ? 

3. Is sufficient opportunity provided for young people to develop 
powers of critical judgment — that is, of analytical thinking ? 

4. Are we so planning our curriculum and organizing our class 
exercises in home economics that there is promise that the instruction 
will eventuate in real ability to appreciate and enjoy ? 

Quantitative scrutiny of the contents of school textbooks will supply 
the evidence upon the basis of which these questions can be answered. 

The ten books referred to in clothing and shelter and the nine books 
which determine instruction in food have been analyzed and the contents 
tabulated in a very detailed manner. 

The unit of tabulation. — It was assumed in tabulating the content of 
these books that the emphasis which teachers give to various kinds of 
material and to the mental processes utilized is approximately propor- 
tional to the space devoted to the subjects and processes in the text* 
books. Hence the unit of tabulation was the number of words -devoted 
to the various phases of the subject. 

Tables DC and X present in so far as space permits the detailed 
headings which were used in the tabulation of the contents of these 
books. We report these headings because we believe that only through 
a careful study of them can the reader secure a clear grasp of the method 
used in organizing the subject-matter for comparative study. This 
tabulation form was designed and redesigned by the writers of this mono- 

28 



HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 29 

graph in conference and was put through a process of revision until it 
was found that the subject-matter of the different textbooks fell readily 
under the various headings. Analysis of various phases of content 
included a separate study of methods of using illustrations, references, 
exercises, and questions. Thus every unit of space in each book was 
accounted for. The percentage of space devoted to each topic, division, 
phase, etc., was calculated. Summaries of these percentages have been 
used in our tables, and in the main supply comparable statistics. Before 
proceeding to a comparative study of the textbooks under consideration, 
however, we should discuss the value of such procedure, the standards 
for evaluating curriculum material, and the criteria for evaluating the 
subject-matter. 

Importance of analyzing textbooks: Training teachers in service. — The 
tabulation of the contents of school textbooks for the purpose of the 
thorough evaluation of the curriculum is an important piece of educa- 
tional criticism. It is a task ??hich calls j n to play processes of judgment. 
Although necessarily partaking very much of routine, it provides one of 
the most stimulating devices for improving teachers in service. Super- 
intendents and principals can use such a method to make their teachers 
constructively critical of their courses of study and to develop a point 
of view concerning aims of teaching. We suggest in passing, therefore, 
that it is a most important administrative device for the training of 
teachers in service in public-school systems. 

STANDARDS FOR EVALUATING TENDENCIES IN CURRICULUM-MAKING IN 

HOME ECONOMICS 

There is a great need for a complete program of selecting and arran- 
ging subject-matter. Courses of study in home economics should rest upon 
a definite twofold program which covers: (1) the selection, (2) the arrange- 
ment of subject-matter. Home economics leaders are in danger of taking 
up the same ineffective method of developing their curriculum that in 
many cases has been utilized in other established subjects. Public- 
school textbooks in the mathematical, historical, and scientific fields, for 
example, during the past two generations, have been constructed by 
elimination from, or accretion to, a stock course of study. New books 
are written from old ones. Revision consists merely of slight omissions 
of old material and the gradual addition of new. Periodically, at least, 
courses of study should be recast, not by this process of gradual accretion 
or elimination, but by inventorying all the curriculum materials available 
for home economics courses and by selecting or rejecting them for the 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

TABLE DC 
i undzk Which the Content of Textbooks on Clothing and 
Sbeltkb Was Tabulated 



HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 
TABLE DC— Continued 



32 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

TABLE X 
Headings ukdek Which the Content or Textbooks on Food Was Tabulated 



111 



!ftl 



111; 



ml 



HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 33 

course in the degree to which they satisfy the criteria which have been 
set up in the program of curriculum-making. This study leads to the 
judgment that home economics, even more strikingly than the older sub- 
jects of the curriculum, has no such program. The present situation 
cannot be evaluated without one. Hence, a tentative scheme is out- 
lined herewith. 

1. Selection of subject-matter. — Two principles should control the 
selection of subject-matter: first, social worth; secondly, thinking value. 
Instructional materials in the home economics field must prove them- 
selves of social value to a majority of the student body. The content of 
a course should be criticized in terms of the degree to which the subject- 
matter makes provision for thought training. The primary intellectual 
purpose of our course is to develop powers of judgment, to teach an 
appreciation of scientific law, and to develop abilities of analysis and 
scientific thinking. To carry out this basic aim the course of study 
should be organized in such a way as to provide an opportunity for the 
development of these powers. The course of study in home economics 
must not only contain socially worth-while material, but it must also 
co-operate with other subjects in the curriculum in providing training 
for the development of the scientific attitude. This can come only 
through constant practice in meeting problem situations. Only by 
practice in judging, in analyzing, in problem-solving, can one develop 
an appreciation of scientific law. 

2. Arrangement of subject-matter. — The psychological criteria of 
sequence and of adaptation should control the arrangement. These fall 
under two heads: (1) technical difficulty; (2) the adaptation of material 
to the educational growth of the class in which it is used. Wherever 
possible, curriculum materials should be arranged developmentally. 
The first criterion controlling the general placing of principal divisions 
and of topics within these divisions is the sequence of technical difficulty. 
Reference has already been made to this matter in chapter ii. With 
this placement of subject-matter, writers and supervisors in home 
economics have been primarily concerned. The second criterion is 
even more important. The arrangement of a course of study, the 
materials of which have been selected upon principles of social use and 
thinking value, must be determined primarily by the developing maturity 
of the pupil. This means experimentation in the different grades of the 
elementary and secondary schools for the purpose of scientifically 
determining the best method of placing and arranging subject-matter. 



34 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



WHAT DOES THE PRESENT COURSE EMPHASIZE: INFORMATION, TECHNIQUE, 

THINKING, OR APPRECIATION? 

Let us now determine from the analysis of the textbooks the answers 
given by actual school procedure to the four questions asked at the 
beginning of the chapter. Let us find in how far the school course really 
does emphasize information, technique, thinking, and appreciational out- 
comes. Table XI and Figure 9 supply much data from a study of 
which we can at least partially answer these questions for the clothing 
and house-planning side of home economics. 

EMPHASIS GIVEN TO VARIOUS SUBJECTS IN THE 
HOME ECONOMICS CURRICULUM 

What types of subject-matter are studied by girls in our public- 
school courses? Table XI shows the large fourfold division of the 

TABLE XI 

Percentage of Space in Each Book Analyzed Given to Textiles, 
Dress Design, Sewing, and House Planning* 



Textbooks 


Textiles 


Dress Design 


Sewing 


House Planning 
and Furnishing 


A 


20.8 

6.9 

21.0 

4 9 


12.0 

193 
20.I 


22.1 
41. 1 
48.3 
72.5 


17. 6 


B 


c 




D 




E 


31.6 


43-9 

57-2 


F 






G 


28.1 

75-7 
82.2 

85.0 


5-5 


29.8 


H 


0.3 


I 








J 
















Ranee 


4-9-85.0 
40.5 


s 5-31.6 

17.7 


22.1-72.5 
42.7 




Average 


0-3-57.2 




29.7 



* This table does not indicate the percentage of space given to illustrations, exercises, etc. 

books in the clothing field: textiles, dress design, sewing, and house 
planning and furnishing. Of the ten books analyzed four deal with three 
of these divisions. Four of them deal with only one, Books H, I, and T 
have to do almost entirely with textiles; F is devoted to the house. ' Book 
E combines discussion of dress design and house planning. Book A 
endeavors to spread its material over the whole fourfold field of textiles 
dress design, sewing, and house planning and furnishing. The mere 
reference to this non-uniform organization of subject-matter illustrates 
clearly the lack of standardization of the home economics curriculum 



HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 



35 



Emphasis on Information 
x. Production 
a. Manufacture 
3. Historical data 
Texts 



Emphasis on Developing Judgment or Problem-Solving Ability 
1. Budget 3. Economic aspect 

a. Structure of fiber 4. Kinds of fabric 



B 




37% 



63% 




60% 



40% 




36% 



64% 



36% 



Fig. 9. — Comparison of the approximate percentage of emphasis in clothing books 
on (0 information, and (2) developing judgment or problem-solving ability. 



36 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

Any comparison of the contents of textbooks is colored by this lack of 
uniformity in the fields covered by the books. 

The clothing course of study dominated by attention to textiles and 
sewing. — Again, a study of Table XI leaves little doubt that the teaching 
of clothing in the majority of cases is combined with a discussion of 
textiles. For those books in which the material is combined with other 
subjects, textiles, in every case but one, outweighs all but sewing. It 
clearly shares with sewing the major part of the course. Note the per- 
centages of space devoted to textiles and sewing when treated in the 
same text. For sewing they range from 22.1 to 72.5 with an average 
of 42.7 per cent; for textiles, from 4.9 to 85.0 with an average of 
40 . 5 per cent. The relative amount of emphasis given to textiles in the 
books* under consideration is well displayed in Figure 10. 

Variety of topics discussed within each subject; illustrated by textiles. — 
The subject-matter itself within the various divisions of the clothing 
field shows the same lack of standardization as does the distribution of 
emphasis. In one of the books, textiles includes production, manu- 
facture, properties and structure of fibers, kinds of fabrics, hygiene of 
clothing, testing and adulteration, historical data, economic aspects of 
the industry, and principles of design, weave construction, and patterns. 
Book C discusses some of these, but omits, for example, properties and 
structure of fiber, kinds of fabrics, and hygiene of clothing. Another 
book on textiles, Book J, covers most of the preceding topics but omits 
art principles in relation to design. This book, however, discusses 
the problem of budget-making. 

INFORMATION-GIVING AND DEVELOPMENT OP TECHNIQUE DOMINATE 

THE COURSE 

From a thorough analysis of the discussions of textiles in these 
books, we are convinced that the vast majority of the attention of the 
course is devoted to giving out information. Figure 9 gives the evi- 
dence for a statement of this kind. This figure presents graphically the 
relative attention paid to acquisition of information and to development 
of judgment in choosing wisely. There can be little doubt that on the 
average more than two-thirds of the attention of the textile course, for 
example, is devoted to information-giving. Production of fibers, manu- 
facture of materials, the historical development of industries — these are 
the topics that engross the attention of children in public-school courses 
in textiles. 

Care has been taken to group as problem-solving material any 
subject-matter through which it appeared possible to develop the weighing 



HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 



37 



Texts 




93,000 



B. 




13,000 




40 , 000 




a6,ooo 




65,000 




SAfloo 



J 




135,000 



Fig. 10. — Amount of space estimated in number of words given to textiles in 
textbooks. 



38 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

of values. If any error has been made, it has been in the direction of 
overweighting the amount of attention paid to reasoning abilities. For 
example, discussions of the structure of fibers, tests of adulteration, the 
economic aspects of the industry, the making and use of budgets, dis- 
cussions of kinds of fabrics — such phases have been tabulated as material 
which provides possible training in the development of higher thought 
processes. Such a procedure certainly overweights rather than under- 
weights "problem-solving." Many leaders acquainted with actual 
instructional education in home economics will recognize, however, that 
a large part of all this material also is pure information. 

ILLUSTRATION OF TYPICAL METHOD OF TREATING HOME ECONOMICS 

TEXTBOOK MATERIAL 

Emphasis in clothing texts. — Note, for example, the way in which 
subject-matter is organized in one of the most widely used texts. We 
turn to a chapter on one of our most important textile industries. In 
this chapter the pupil meets in very brief paragraphs discussions of the 
most diverse kinds. General conditions in commerce and business are 
taken up in a half-page. The discussion is not sufficiently detailed, 
however, to give the pupil a real perspective of the big issues involved. 
Brief factual statements concerning the properties of the fiber follow. 
Such statements are from three to seven or eight lines in length. Each 
is stated in a matter-of-fact way, and uses terminology that is thoroughly 
technical. This discussion is succeeded by six pages of material describ- 
ing the geographical distribution of the fiber. In succeeding sections 
the pupil reads a half-page on climatic conditions, methods of gathering 
the fiber, rates of work and pay, methods of preparing the fiber, with 
elaborate technical discussions of the machinery by which it is prepared 
for the market, and a digression a page in length on the scope of this par- 
ticular textile industry in one country. This continues for twenty pages 
more, half-page presentations predominating, with rarely any attempt 
systematically to organize the discussions of the topic around a few major 
principles. The text abounds in Latin terms, and is concerned funda- 
mentally with minutiae rather than with a few important principles 
which the child could understand and retain. 

This particular book, which it must be remembered is used only as 
an illustration— a typical one, however— forms the basis of reading in a 
number of college classes and is the adopted text in textiles in 20 per cent 
of the secondary schools using basic texts. It is the consensus of opinion 
of many teachers and college students that the material is not organized 



HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 



39 



so that it will be retained or so that it will eventuate in a clear grasp of 
large underlying principles. It is inconceivable, therefore, that such 
texts can result in real "learning" outcomes with secondary-school 
pupils. We have used one minor illustration to present concretely 
two points: (i) that the curriculum through which young people are 
taught in home economics is overweighted in its emphasis on information 
and technique; (2) that we have been conservative in our criticism of 
the present emphasis on information because even material of the kind 
referred to in this section has been regarded as making possible provision 
for training in "judgment." It is our conviction that only a small per- 
centage of public-school courses in home economics make any provision 
for training in judgment, thinking, or appreciation. 

In regard to the sewing work, the analysis of courses of study and 
the minute tabulation that has been made of the content of the textbooks 



TABLE XII 

Emphasis Given in Clothing Books to Puke Skill, Skill and Problem-Solving, 

Information, and Problem-Solving 



Textbooks 


Skill 


Skill and 
Problem-Solving 


Information 


Problem-Solving 


A 


37-5 
72.2 

66.9 

58.7 

51.6 


15-5 

19-3 
28.1 

15-2 
2.0 


145 

53 

4-5 
12.0 

22.8 


7.1 
2.8 


B 


C 


0.0 


D 


0.0 


G 


7.0 






Range 


37.5-72.2 
57. 3 


• 

2.0-28.I 
16.0 


45-22. 8 
11. 8 


0.O-7. l 


Average 


34 





leave no room for doubt that teachers are fundamentally concerned with 
manual skill. Furthermore, such work occupies a large proportion of 
the time of the clothing courses. Such conclusions are based on the 
findings in Table XII, in which are given the percentages of material in 
clothing books devoted to skill, skill and problem-solving, information, 
and problem-solving. 

The subject-matter relating to sewing in the five books which have 
been analyzed was divided among four groups: skill, skill combined 
with problem-solving, informational material, and problem-solving. It 
will be generally conceded that machine sewing, hand sewing, and 
the technique required in garment construction are skills; that the 
planning of a garment, the drafting of the pattern, or the alteration of 
the commercial pattern involves a certain emphasis on skill, but may 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



Aipactof 

Inaiutry 


Addi- 
tional 
Fibtri 




| 


I 


pI^mt- 









HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 
TABLE DC— Continued 



Hocsi Plamhinq and Fuihishing 



Rod» Planbih 



42 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



This comparison does not enable us to draw clear-cut conclusions con- 
cerning the opportunity provided by these books for training in reflec- 
tive thinking. Therefore a separate analysis was made of the six books. 
The percentage of each text devoted to skill, the percentage to informa- 
tion, and that to reflective thinking were tabulated and computed sepa- 
rately. Table XVI gives the results. 

TABLE XVI 

Percentages of Food Texts Given to Skill, Information, 

and Reflective Thinking 



Textbooks 


Skill 


Information 


Reflective Thinking 


A 


3-3 

8.2 

1.6 

57 
6.4 

2.8 


383 
41.4 
440 
58-4 

643 
56.5 


19.8 

25-9 
20.5 
26.6 


B 


c 


D 


E 


"•5 
13 7 


F 





It should be noted that much the largest part of each of the six books 
is devoted to information-giving — from 38.3 per cent to 64.3 per cent — 
and only n. 5 per cent to 25.9 per cent to reflective thinking. Under 
acquisition of skill all subject-matter was included that could be taught 
as "skill," even though it was not sufficiently emphasized or repeated 
often enough really to result in such skill. The following items are 
illustrative of such material: measurement, table serving, cleaning, care 
of utensils, daily routine. All subject-matter included under recipes, 
classification of foods, food production, and housewifery (omitting the 
two items mentioned under skill) was classified as information. 

Under reflective thinking was included any discussion of food prin- 
ciples, nutrition (excepting one item of food classification), marketing, 
sanitation, and household budgets. 

This material was so grouped because it is possible to teach it on a 
higher level than that of merely fixing associations. It is very probable, 
however, that most teachers using these textbooks use the material in a 
routine manner, emphasizing information. A considerable amount of 
subject-matter which has been classified as reflective thinking probably 
would be more properly classified as information. 

TABULATION OF MATERIAL LEADING TO PROBLEM-SOLVING ABILITY 

We found less than 1 per cent of subject-matter in any of these 
books in which real problems are presented. It is clear that the develop- 
ment of the ability to reason has been disregarded in the organization 



HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 43 

of the subject-matter. Occasionally in questions and experiments one 
finds a situation presented which is really problem-solving material. 

A careful canvass was made to discover "experiments" which were 
presented in true problem-solving form. It was found that in the 
presentation of all experiments the writers find it necessary to name 
the reagents which are to be used — presence or absence of heat, alkali, 
acid. They also describe somewhat in detail the method of conducting 
"experiments." It is clear, therefore, that these attempts to set up 
experiments in food books for the public schools limit themselves to 
interesting the pupil in new methods. An illustration of an experiment 
where the student would be most interested in the method is as follows: 
"Boil water in a small saucepan closely covered. Note the sound of 
the water just before boiling and the change in sound as the boiling 
begins." Occasionally one finds an experiment set so as to arouse the 
curiosity of the pupil as to the result. Here is an illustration of an 
experiment. "Test a bit of cream of tartar with litmus paper. Is it 
acid or alkaline in reaction ? " 

Situations like these cannot be "problem-solving" for children in 
the elementary or secondary schools at the present time. For such 
material to become a "problem" situation and for the pupil to proceed 
to its solution, she must have information as to the physical and chemical 
changes produced in matter by heat, acid, and alkali. If such facts had 
been mastered in some other course in science, or in previous phases of 
the home economics course, the student upon being presented with the 
problem could, perhaps, be expected to analyze it in terms of these 
reagents. The second definite lack in the training of the pupil is in our 
failure to develop the technique of conducting experiments. We have 
no standardized procedure in our present books. The method of 
carrying out any proposed experiment must be described in detail each 
time. 

Still more direct evidence is at hand to show that these experiments 
cannot result in problem-solving ability. There is a distinct failure to 
organize the conclusions which are reached as a result of the experiment 
in such a way as to teach children fundamental scientific principles. 
With such subject-matter as this, home economics is missing its great 
opportunity for the development of problem-solving ability and the 
setting up of scientific attitudes. With no phase of its subject-matter 
is there better opportunity to secure these important generalized out- 
comes. If home economics is to be recognized as a great applied science, 
it will be through the organization of just such material as this. 



44 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

IS THE INFORMATION GIVEN IN OUR COURSES OF SOCIAL WORTH? 

Our first criterion for the selection of subject-matter is social value. 
We are very much concerned in evaluating the kind of information which 
is given — especially since so much attention is given to it. To answer 
this question in detail is beyond the scope of the present report. Only 
through evidence which will be collected by years of investigation can 
a satisfactory evaluation be given. One cannot analyze home economics 
textbooks without becoming very skeptical of the social value of much of 
their content. An illustrative sketch has been given of the type of 
material in a typical book on textiles. Another illustration can be 
found in the comparison of methods of treating the subjects of com- 
mercial patterns and drafting patterns. 

Teaching the use of commercial patterns versus training in the drafting 
of patterns. — A large proportion of women and girls make use of com- 
mercial patterns either in doing their sewing or in having it done. To 
satisfy the criterion of social worth, the curriculum should provide an 
adequate discussion of the use of commercial patterns. In order to 
develop an understanding of how to choose, alter, and use commercial 
patterns, texts should go into the subject thoroughly. Those who 
emphasize the drafting of patterns maintain that this training develops a 
better understanding of the commercial pattern and gives the requisite 
foundational knowledge. 

While this is in a measure true, the material of Figure n shows that 
the present tendency of our textbooks distinctly is to overweight the dis- 
cussion of the drafting of patterns. In the same five books referred to 
later in the discussion of art principles, we find the percentage of space 
devoted to commercial patterns as contrasted with that devoted to 
drafted patterns, as follows: 0.9 per cent contrasted with 3.7 per cent; 
0.9 per cent contrasted with 7 . 1 per cent; 1 . 8 per cent contrasted with 
12 per cent; 1 per cent contrasted with 11 per cent. In only one, 
Book G, is the emphasis on commercial patterns larger than that on 
the drafting of patterns — this case, 3 . 7 per cent contrasted with o .3 per 
cent to the drafting of patterns. 

Present textbooks tend to ignore the importance of the "budget" — 
Analysis of the contents of these books shows that the authors have 
almost entirely ignored the possibilities of using the budget as curriculum 
material. In books on clothing, only three discuss the budget in any 
way. They give, respectively, 1.3, 1.1, and 6.5 per cent of the entire 
space of the book to this problem. Of the books in food, three refer 
to the keeping of household budgets. Book B devotes 3.8 per cent of 



HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 45 

the entire book, Book £ devotes 0.46 per cent, and Book F, 0.75 per 
cent to this subject. The conclusion is clear that these writers are not 
especially concerned with the important economic problems of the budget. 
Yet the material is of great social value. Through the right discussion 
of the individual and famly budget, sound training in one of the most 
important elements of good citizenship can be given. 

Art principles in Commercial Drafting 

relation to dress patterns of patterns 

Texts 



a.x% 



B 





1.6% 1.8% u% 





2% 3.7% -3% 

Fig. 11. — Relative amount of space given to (1) art principles applied to dress; 
(2) commercial patterns; (3) drafting of patterns. 

Informational material is not organized in problem-solving form. — 
Even when the information is without question of social value (and we 
agree that one of the aims of the course is that of fixing socially worth- 
while facts), subject-matter could be presented in problem form. This 
has not been done. The discussions of the course could be phrased in 
question form. Pupils could be faced constantly with problem situations, 



46 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

with issues about which they must reflect. Experiments can be organ- 
ized so that the pupil will be induced to disentangle some problems. 
Clearly the gain to the pupil in "thinking" value would be far greater 
than that which follows upon the mere acquisition of information. 

We scrutinized critically the uses made of questions in textbooks. 
The study showed that nearly all the questions were worded so as to 
force specific recall of the words stated in the text. Only occasionally 
questions were put so as to offer real difficulties and to develop powers 
of judgment. The following is an example of the type of questions 
most frequently found in these textbooks: "What is the proportion of 
flour and liquid for one cup of white sauce for vegetables?" The 
response involves direct memory. Training of this sort does not call 
into play reflective thinking. Occasionally questions were found, how- 
ever, apparently planned for the purpose of developing the organizing 
powers of the pupil by causing her to rearrange facts which have already 
been presented in another way. For example: "Make a list of strong, 
of sweet, and of mild flavored vegetables." A third type of question, 
and one which is clearly of the greater educational value, is to present 
to the pupil a problem clearly and definitely: "What other foods must 
be served with potato to make a meal complete? Find the cost of 
potatoes in your locality. Estimate the cost of a dish of mashed potatoes 
for five people." 

Another illustration of the degree to which our curriculum falls short 
of providing sufficient opportunity for training the judgment of young 
people is in the application of art principles. Clearly the understanding 
of art principles as an aid in selecting beautiful and harmonious furnish- 
ings of fabrics is a desirable asset in securing pleasing results. If children 
are to be taught habitually to arrange furnishings well in the home, to 
choose the right kinds of materials in dress, to select the right design, etc., 
then the curriculum must definitely set up materials through which these 
outcomes can be secured. Figure n shows, for five commonly used 
books, the percentage of space of the textbooks devoted to art principles 
in relation to dress. Note what the figures are: 2.1 per cent, 3.5 per 
cent, 1 .6 per cent, 2 per cent. 

This analysis means that not more than five to ten pages of discus- 
sion, illustration, problem-solving, etc., are devoted to the entire problem 
of developing art principles in relation to dress design, house furnishing, 
or fabrics. Is not the conclusion sound that such an inadequate amount 
of attention to an important outcome from school studies, and one 
which is very difficult of attainment, cannot possibly lead to satisfactory 



HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 47 

results ? The need for preparing textbook material and of revising class- 
room emphasis so that an opportunity may be provided for developing 
habits of sound judgment and of wise choice is quite clear. We shall be 
able to teach children to enjoy the objects of their environment only by 
surrounding them with good things and by constantly calling their 
attention to the characteristics which are in accord with principles of art. 
The school can teach appreciation only through the constant utilization 
of intellectual methods. There is good reason to believe that for those 
who are not by nature unusually sensitive, appreciation can be set up 
effectively by ideas; to have one's attention called to the principle of 
design underlying the arrangement of furniture in a room which is satisfy, 
ing will lead eventually to enjoyment of such an arrangement. The 
school must recognize its important function of developing these enjoy- 
ment outcomes. It is inconceivable that it can serve this function 
except through the introduction of subject-matter which is so planned 
as to eventuate in such outcomes. The goal, no doubt, is that of making 
automatic the sensing of proper arrangements. The means of arriving 
at this are twofold: (1) through the careful presentation of principles of 
arrangement, reasons why this arrangement of line is pleasing, and why 
that arrangement is disquieting or inharmonious; (2) by providing an 
opportunity in the project work by which practice in application of these 
principles can be secured. Through the twofold agency, therefore, of 
intellectual explanation and sufficient practice, the school may hope to 
have its instruction result in some degree of aesthetic appreciation. 

EMPHASIS DEVOTED TO VARIOUS SUBJECTS AND TOPICS IN FOOD 

There are six major divisions of the food field: cooking, nutrition, 
marketing, food production, sanitation, and housewifery. The per- 
centage of space in each of nine books devoted to each of these phases 
of the work is shown in Table XVII. 

The books are classified in two groups, Group I including the six 
divisions of the field. The books in Group II deal with nutrition, 
marketing, food production, and sanitation, but omit cooking and house- 
wifery. The comments that were made on the clothing books can 
practically be duplicated. There is almost no agreement among writers 
of food textbooks regarding the subjects which should be emphasized or 
the proportional space which should be given them. 

The most striking finding, however, is that cooking dominates the 
course, the range of space being from 25.4 per cent to 49 . 5 per cent. 

Paralleling this outstanding emphasis upon routine material is the 
great dearth of material in the field of nutrition. No phase of the 



4 8 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



subject-matter in our home economics courses that is worthy of occupy- 
ing a central space in the food curriculum is more understressed than 
that of nutrition. We believe that it offers unusual opportunity for 
the training of children both in socially worth-while information and at 
the same time in real problem-solving ability. With this type of subject- 
matter, if with any in the whole home economics field, it should be 
possible to organize the curriculum so as to have it serve the two 
important purposes. A careful scrutiny of the textbooks used in the 
schools, however, shows that the leaders are missing their opportunity. 
It is of interest to note that the textbooks that devote the largest 

TABLE XVII 

Percentages of Space in Each of Nine Food Books Given to Cooking, Nutri- 
tion, Marketing, Food Production, Sanitation, and Housewifery 



TmCTBOOKS 


Cooking 


Nutrition 


Maixstino 


Food 
Production 


Sanitation 


HousK- 

WTRRY 




Group I 


A 


37-8 

25-4 
29.8 

369 
49- 5 
46.3 


14.8 

16.5 
19.7 
18.4 
10.7 


0.70 

7.89 

2.27 

4.03 

2.40 
1.40 


8.40 
300 

4.IS 
4.90 

2.50 

3.80 




3.0I 
I7.70 

7.40 
I0.4 


B 


0.88 
1.22 
0.64 

O.IO 

1.03 


c 


D 


E 


IS.6 
8.03 


F 






Group II 


G 




46.8 
58.1 
21.8 


4.6 

10. S 
2.1 


10.2 


1-7 




H 






I 




28.3 


IS- S 











amount of space to cooking give the smallest amount to nutrition, and 
vice versa. 

Neglect of marketing. — Just as there is little or no emphasis upon 
intelligent buying of clothing, so the textbooks in food almost totally 
neglect this important problem. Note, for example, the range of 0.7 
per cent to 7 . 89 per cent in the space devoted to marketing. Contrasted 
with this it is astonishing to find that textbook writers in this field are 
actually devoting more space to the discussion of fuels, stoves, com- 
bustion, etc., than they are to these important problems of buying. 
There is a total lack of evaluation of both the social and the psychological 
importance of different types of subject-matter connected with food. 
Long and technical explanations of food production and manufacture or 
of certain phases of nutrition are given. Some of the textbooks in 



HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 



49 



cooking devote a relatively large amount of space to a detailed discus- 
sion of the different kinds of stoves. The historical development of 
stoves is described in detail from the earliest to the most modern types 
in Current use. 

ORDER IN WHICH SUBJECTS AND TOPICS ARE INTRODUCED INTO THE COURSES 

In this report there has been set up as the criteria which should 
control the arrangement of subject-matter in the course, technical 
sequence within the subject-matter and the psychological principle of 
" learning." Tables XVIII, XIX, and XX illustrate the present practice 
of introducing subjects and topics in the clothing and food textbooks. 

Table XVTII shows the order in which five main subjects of the 
clothing field are introduced in five commonly used textbooks. These 

TABLE XVm 

Oxder in Which Principal Subjects Ase Introduced in Five Commonly Used 
Textbooks Dealing with Various Phases or Clothing 



Textbooks 


Textiles 


Dress Design 


Sewing 


House Planning 
sad Famishing 


MilKnery 


A 


2 
I 

2 
2 


4 

2 
I 


3 
3 

3 

I 


I 


5 


B 


C 






D 






E 


I 


2 













subjects are textiles, dress design, sewing, house planning and furnishing, 
and millinery. This difference in order is caused in part by the fact 
that the five texts do not canvass the same fields. However, whenever 
textiles is combined with dress design and sewing, it is significant that 
in the majority of cases it precedes either of the other two. It is agreed 
that experience in handling materials, which results from the study of 
textiles, shall be gained before dress design is attempted. Furthermore, 
there is a distinct tendency, as shown by these books, to provide an 
opportunity for the development of some skill in the constructive pro- 
cesses and an understanding of patterns before the detailed study of 
costume design is undertaken. Although home economics is a new 
subject, these tendencies toward general agreement as to the order 
of introducing main subjects themselves are apparent from a general 
analysis of the curriculum. 

The order in which these main topics in food (excluding illustrative 
material and statistical material) are presented in five commonly used 
books shows distinct lack of uniformity, as may be seen by Table XIX. 



$o 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



It is quite clear that there is no agreement as to which kind of subject- 
matter provides the proper introduction to the study of food. Appar- 
ently no experimental evidence is available to guide the decision. 

TABLE XDC 

Order in Which Principal Subjects Are Introduced in Five Commonly Used 
Textbooks Dealing with Various Phases of Food 



Textbooks 


Experiments 


Recipes 


Nutrition 

and 
Production 


Housewifery 


Cost of 
Foods 


Principles 


General 
Directions 


A 


2 

4 
I 
I 

2 


5 
6 

2 
2 

" 5 


I 
I 

3 
I 

I 






3 
3 


4 


B 




2 

3 


5 


c 


3 




E . 






F 






3 


4 






1 "" 





The study of the order of presentation of the material has been con- 
tinued by an analysis of the order of topics presented in cooking. Table 
XX gives the order in which seven main topics are introduced in the 
course. 

TABLE XX 

Order in Which Seven Main Topics Are Presented in the Teaching of Cook- 
ing in Six Commonly Used Textbooks 



Textbooks 


Fruits 


Vegetables 


Beverages 


Cereals 


Fats and 
Oils 


Eggs 


Milk 


A 


I 


3 
I 

2 
I 

? 




2 
2 

5 

2 

4 

2 


4 






B 




3 
3 
3 


4 


c 


I 








D 






4 


E 


2 

3 


I 




s 


F 










1 


1 


1 





There is a much larger agreement as to the kinds of food that should 
be presented first in teaching cooking. Two texts begin with fruits, 
three with vegetables, and one with beverages. 

It will be helpful to state certain assumptions that may aid in deter- 
mining which foods should be discussed first. 

i. Foods requiring a small amount of skill in their preparation. For 
example, the cooking of a vegetable or fruit containing one food con- 
stituent. 

2. Foods simple in composition, so that the effect of the application 
of heat upon this one constituent could be noted without the result 
being complicated by another food constituent. 



HOME ECONOMICS TEXTBOOKS 5 1 

3. Economical use of food in season. Fresh fruits and vegetables 
are generally cheaper in the fall; therefore beginning cooking lessons 
involve the use of these foods. 

Apparently these three assumptions seem to control the character 
of the introductory lessons in food. To date no experiments based 
on studies of how children learn, have been published showing which type 
of food should be presented first. 

Methods of presenting different lessons on food vary. — Four of the 
five books present some phase of nutrition of the food first. Two intro- 
duce the discussion by experiments. In the preface of two of the books 
the following method is suggested: 

The main discussion or recitation must accompany or follow the applica- 
tion. Students are most interested in the performance of an experiment or 
a cooking process, and when practice precedes a recitation, they learn to think 
and do for themselves, and therefore get a better understanding of the theory. 

A second author gives the following: 

The theory of a process in cooking is understood much more easily after 
than before experience with that process.' For this reason teachers are urged 
to reduce explanation to a minimum until pupils have had some practice in 

the process to be explained It not only gives better results from cookery 

instruction, but it favors the acquisition of skill by pupils, and increases their 
interest in the work. 

Two other authors advise the use of the reverse order of procedure. 

This study of the variation of the order of presentation shows that 
as yet no one or two methods have been found to be best. We take this 
opportunity of emphasizing again that such methods can be developed 
only by a careful scientific study of the development of subject-matter, 
of the way in which children learn, and of best methods of adapting 
the two. 

CONTRAST OP HOME ECONOMICS WITH OLDER SUBJECTS 

OF THE CURRICULUM 

In each of the established academic subjects of the curriculum, the 
order of introducing topics is thoroughly standardized. For example, 
the ten most commonly used first-year algebras introduce the twenty 
main topics of the course in almost the same way. Rarely does a topic 
get out of line in more than one or two places. The same "lock-step" is 
apparent in the treatment of the subordinate topics of these main 
divisions themselves. 



52 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

Home economics, however, is a newcomer in the curriculum, and 
the order of introducing kinds of subject-matter has not been at all 
standardized. It will be fortunate indeed if the leaders in this field can 
recognize in their discussions of this important problem of gradation of 
material a criterion other than that of mere technical sequence. Paral- 
leling the use of this principle of arrangement in determining the order 
of presentation there should be a thorough use of the psychological 
principle of arrangement of subject-matter according to "learning" 
difficulty. The writers of this report believe that through experimenta- 
tion and detailed discussion, in conference and in the press, it will be 
possible to come to general agreement as to the best order of introducing 
subjects and topics within the whole public-school curriculum. We 
believe, however, that it cannot come except through a stimulating discus* 
sion which is based upon careful rtiinlrfiig and experimentation. Again 
we recur to what has been said before. If textbooks in the field axe 
constructed on a program which will satisfy the psychological criterion 
of arrangement, then through the experimental use of such textbooks the 
best arrangements of material will be revealed. We should scrutinize 
the contents of our courses of study — the way in which material is organ- 
ized, the detail with which it is presented, the illustrations which axe 
used, and the extent to which the material is concrete or abstract — 
always holding in mind this fundamentally important criterion of 
organizing subject-matter in accordance with "how children learn." 



CHAPTER V 

INADEQUATE PURPOSES FOR TEACHING: THE MASTERY OF 

TECHNIQUE AND INFORMATION 

There is a distinct need for a clear statement of aims and outcomes 
of teaching. The construction of a scheme of home economics education 
for the public schools which is sound socially and psychologically must 
rest upon a clear statement of educational objectives and outcomes. 
There are two ways of determining current instructional goals. To the 
first we have already resorted, namely, that of analyzing the curriculum. 

There is another approach to this problem of determining teaching 
aims: analysis of the literature of the field. It is one which has been 
canvassed but little in the history of home economics. We have been 
unable to find summarized statements of this sort in the publications of 
home economics workers. Only two reports have been found by those 
conducting the present inquiry which are helpful in this respect. These 
were written, one by a professor of education in one of our state univer- 
sities, the other by a specialist in city-school survey work. A summary 
has been made, therefore, of general aims and outcomes of teaching 
as they are stated by home economics leaders and teachers themselves. 
To five important sources we have turned: 

i. The courses of study of city public-school systems discussed in 
chapter ii have been tabulated because they present the point of view 
of supervisors of home economics. 

2. The prefaces, forewords, and contents of nineteen currently used 
textbooks have been canvassed. The same books discussed in chapters 
iii and iv provide the material for this chapter, only twelve out of the 
total of nineteen containing material of value. The culling out of state- 
ments of teaching function from this second source has reinforced the 
conclusions drawn from a detailed analysis of the books themselves. It 
enables us to state in succinct form the specific purposes behind the 
selection and arrangement of the content to which we have already 
referred. It will be helpful to keep in mind also that the material from 
this source presents fundamentally the point of view of college writers 
of home economics textbooks — textbooks which are used, however, in 
the public schools. 

53 



54 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

3. Our study has endeavored to report accurately the point of view 
of home economics leaders as presented in convention and conference 
discussions and in their professional literature. For this purpose 
statements of objectives have been summarized from the two principal 
publications of home economics workers — the Journal of Home Economics 
for the years 1909-19, inclusive, and the Annual Proceedings of the Lake 
Placid Conference on Home Economics for the years 1899-1909 inclusive. 
This material presents in a new form and under different conditions the 
point of view of much the same group of leaders as those concerned with 
the writing of textbooks. 

4. From the points of view of home economics workers themselves, 
which are summarized in our first three sources, we turn to the writings 
of leaders in the general educational field: professors of education, 
authors of textbooks on various phases of public-school education, 
specialists working on school surveys, writers of articles in educational 
journals and of bulletins of the United States Bureau of Education 
which deal with home economics education. The fourth source, there- 
fore, to which we turn is a series of eleven representative textbooks on 
education; home economics pamphlets of the Bureau of Education 
(Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 28, and 32; also Education for the Home, Part I); and 
the issues of the Teachers College Record for 1906-7, 1913, 19149 1915* 
and 1918. 

5. This type of material which we have set apart in a class by itself, 
is the material found in the four surveys of public-school systems 
that have dealt with home economics. 



EVALUATION OF AIMS AND OUTCOMES: A FIRST STEP IN THE 
RECONSTRUCTION OF HOME ECONOMICS 

It is a basic criticism of our whole educational scheme that purposes 
and functions have not been clearly stated. Analysis of other public- 
school courses — language, mathematics, science, social studies, etc. — 
reveals the same lack of clear definition of teaching goals. Specific 
outcomes have rarely been enumerated. This, we believe, is one of the 
fundamental causes for our apparent inability to set up a course of 
study and to present it to pupils in such a way that nearly all children 
can satisfactorily acquire the facts and skills and the powers of generaliza- 
tion which are fundamental to the teaching. In recent years there has 
been a marked tendency in such elementary-school subjects as spelling, 
arithmetic, history, and in such high-school courses as mathematics, to 



INADEQUATE PURPOSES FOR TEACHING $S 

investigate " minimum essentials " and to study the foundational elements 
of our curricula which should form the basis of teaching. Even in this 
connection purposes are rarely phrased in terms of the "learning" of the 
pupil. Like the vocabulary of the college instructor and writer, it is a 
"subject-matter" terminology. It deals with the "operations" of the 
subject. It goes no farther than to study the kinds of errors that stu- 
dents make. It does not deal primarily with the learning process itself. 
It is one of the central theses of the writers of this monograph, however, 
that in order that a clear statement of objectives and outcomes may be 
made and generally accepted by workers in home economics education, 
thinking must be expressed in language pertinently related to the psy- 
chology of the learner. 

Difference between "aims" and "outcomes." — Now objectives (or 
aims) and outcomes are different, and yet both are important. Objec- 
tives state the general goal of teaching that should control the organiza- 
tion of the curriculum and the arrangement of materials and discussions; 
the particularized outcomes of teaching enumerate the types of 
information which have been acquired, the habits that have been formed, 
the extent to which powers of critical judgment, reasoning, analysis, 
and discrimination have been developed. The statement of objectives 
must be deliberately general in character. It pictures the big function 
and purpose of home economics education. The other deals with par- 
ticulars, with details. The statement of function or general aim is the 
controlling principle. The enumeration of outcomes applies the principle 
by listing specific mental processes which the teacher is to have in mind 
in the work of each exercise of the course. The extent to which 
the latter have been developed should be checked up concretely 
by scientific measurement. The statement of general aim, again, 
should be a pedagogical application of clear thinking concerning 
the psychological and sociological bases of home economics education. 
The itemization of outcomes involves, on the other hand, the psycho- 
logical problem of throwing into prominent relief the meanings or types 
of information to be indelibly fixed, and those fundamental types of 
muscular and intellectual habits the forming of which is a necessary 
groundwork for the more important outcomes of learning. The state- 
ments of the outcomes will include the perfection of machinery for the 
development of powers of critical judgment, abilities to think logically, 
to weigh issues, and to use information and ideas selectively. 

Home economics needs a scheme of educational thinking which is thor- 
oughly psychological in character, and which at the same time will fit the 



56 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

schoolroom needs of teacher and pupil. Thinking about the purpose and 
functions of education should be done in terms of "learning." 

PROBLEMS OF HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION ARE FUNDAMENTALLY 
PROBLEMS OF "HOW CHILDREN LEARN " 

The crux of the teaching problem is " learning." There is much evi- 
dence that we have lost sight of it in our school subjects, home economics 
included. We have discussed learning from the standpoint of the 
psychological laboratory and textbook. We have neglected to apply it. 
We have recently had valuable suggestions from the educational psy- 
chologists 1 concerning the methods of approach to this problem, but as 
yet there has been no detailed application in home economics. Even a 
cursory examination of the literature shows that workers in this field 
have been so concerned with subject-matter that they have failed to take 
into consideration the basic problems of learning. Furthermore, the 
general psychologist's contribution to the teaching of children has been 
very limited, remote, and indirect, especially with regard to a subject 
like home economics. The need is evident, therefore, for a statement of 
objectives and outcomes in our field which will reconcile these two 
points of view. 

CURRENT POINTS OF VIEW CONCERNING THE FUNCTION AND PURPOSE OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 

Our discussion is based upon tabulation of published aims. The 
statements of aim set down by the various groups of workers referred to 
in previous sections were tabulated. These were grouped in such a 
fashion that a sound interpretation could be made of the points of view 
represented by these statements. The tabulation was made in accord- 
ance with the four groups that we have previously mentioned. 

Group A: When the phraseology left no doubt that the writer 
desired the setting up of habits of skill, of technique as an outcome of 
teaching, then it was tabulated in this group. Such phrases as "manual 
skill," "dexterity," "cooking and meal serving," "hand and machine 
sewing," "home-making skills," "keeping accounts," "habits of neat- 
ness," "habits of cleanliness," "habits of accuracy," "system in working" 
are illustrative of the statement which we interpreted as technique or 
habit-formation (both intellectual and manual). 

" Judd, C. H., Psychology of High School Subjects. Boston: Ginn & Co., 1915. 
Freeman, F. N., Psychology of the Common Branches. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co. 
1917. 



INADEQUATE PURPOSES FOR TEACHING 57 

Group B: Whenever an aim clearly fell in the information group, it 
was checked there. Facts concerning foods, their source, manufacture, 
composition, selection, diet, etc.; house management, its care, and the 
use of labor-saving devices, the budget, division of labor, etc.; informa- 
tion about clothing, its selection, manufacture, its care; facts about the 
house, its construction, furnishing, sanitation, etc. 

Group C: The third group, more vaguely stated intangible outcomes, 
included such phrases as "independence," "intellectual power," "initia- 
tive," "broad view of life," "self-reliance," "high sense of honesty," 
etc., combined with statements which clearly related to the scientific and 
appreciation^ attitudes. 

Group D: Similarly with statements which could be interpreted as 
emphasizing the development of judgment and problem-solving ability. 
We so interpreted such expressions as "to get the pupil to use mental 
and physical powers definitely and intelligently in respect to problems 
of food and clothing"; "to develop a scientific attitude toward home 
problems"; "to train in the power to select and judge daily diet"; 
"to develop power in actual situations in the home"; etc. 

I. The Point of View Expressed in Printed City Courses op Study 

Out of several hundred city courses of study only sixty-seven con- 
tained statements of the program for home economics. Forty-two of 
these stated aims of instruction. Eighty-five specific aims were given. 
Table XXI summarizes the tabulation, while Figure 12 presents the 
results graphically. 

TABLE XXI 

Number op Courses op Study in Which Each Aim Is Listed as One of 

the Aims of Instruction 

A. Technique and habit-formation 28 

B. Information 19 

C. General aims 27 

D. Formation of critical judgments 11 

Occasionally it was found that a supervisor would list one aim as 
the sole objective of instruction. For example, two supervisors set up 
knowledge as the sole aim; one, technique and habit-formation (phrased 
as "familiarity with tools"). No course of study set up the develop- 
ment of powers of judgment or problem-solving ability as the sole aim. 
Two state in varying language certain, very general aims as the only 
goals to be kept in mind. Four systems record skill and information as 
all-sufficient, while one-third of the entire number are centering their 



• 



S» HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

attention upon skill, technique, or habit-formation. One-fifth of the super- 
visors thought information was of primary value, and said nothing about 
skill. "Manual dexterity " was a favorite term used to describe skill 
and "knowledge of food principles" for the acquisition of information 
in the food field. 

The analysis of city courses of study, therefore, reveals two striking 
facts: first, tie very evident lack of dear thinking on the part of those 
designing our city-school courses of study concerning the real objectives 
of home economics; second, the great emphasis laid upon the acquisition 



Technique and hibii-lornuuion 



1>. Fonnstlon of critical judgment! 

Fig. is.— The extent to which various aims are emphasized in city courses of 
study. 

of information and technique. There is little doubt that the leaders of 
home economics work in our cities are concerned more with fact and 
skill outcomes than they are with the development of generalized abilities 
in children. One-third of the aims were vaguely expressed and were 
couched always in phrases long current in statements of aims of school 
teaching. For example "to create a high ideal of home life and realize 
dignity of labor," "to strengthen the moral qualities of honesty, truth- 
fulness, purposefulness and the like," "to develop not only the taste, but 
also the wisdom to choose the best instead of the cheap, the beautiful 
instead of the ugly." 



INADEQUATE PURPOSES FOR TEACHING 59 

II. Aims Expressed by Writers of School Textbooks in Home Economics 

Twelve of the nineteen textbooks reported in chapters iii and iv 

contained statements covering the purposes of instruction. Table XXII 

TABLE XXII 

Number of Textbooks Specifically Stating in Preface or Elsewhere the 

Purposes of Instruction in Rome Economics 

A. Technique and habit-formation 3 

B. Information 10 

C. General aims 3 

D. Formation of critical judgments 3 

summarizes our grouping of the aims and Figure 13 gives the data 
graphically. 




□ 



Technique ud hibit formition 



This tabulation of aims confirms the conclusions reached hi chapters 
ii and iv: writers of textbooks are concerned primarily with "informa- 
tion," with facts to be acquired, not immediately with material which 
will develop the students' mental powers of logical thinking. The 
organization of the textbooks is such as, rarely if ever, to arouse problem 
situations in the mind of the teacher who presents the material. The 
giving of information and the checking of the extent to which it is 
acquired — this is too often the goal held before public-school teachers 
of home economics by books which they are using. 



60 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

III. Statements op Aim Found in Professional Home Economics Publica- 
tions: "The Proceedings of the Lake Placid Conference on Home 
Economics" and the "Journal of Home Economics" 

It is in the proceedings of conferences and conventions that one can 
generally find the clearest statement of the real interests of leaders in 
an educational movement. It is a well-known fact that for the established 
subjects the content of the textbooks and courses of study is shaped 
by an accumulation of tradition which has been crystallized by publica- 
tion agencies. The tabulation of aims from such sources leads to a 
conclusion far different from the interpretation of the verbal state- 
ments of the textbook writers before conventions. Their theoretical 
objectives are commonly diametrically opposite to the outcomes in 
which the study of their own material will eventuate. 

We believe this point of view aids in understanding the material 
one finds in the Proceedings of the Lake Placid Conference on Home 
Economics and the Journal of Home Economics. At various times com- 
mittees have reported on the "status of home economics in elementary 
and secondary schools "(for example, at the third annual meeting, 1901)- 
From such reports one obtains the idea that leaders in the home economics 
field, although relatively untrained in the science of curriculum-making 
and the psychology of learning, are sincerely interested in the preparation 
of materials and in the formulation of teaching procedure which will lay 
a greater stress upon important generalized outcomes. One still finds, 
however, considerable emphasis on skill and information in the fifty- 
four aims that were stated specifically in the Proceedings of the Lake Placid 
Conference on Home Economics. The distribution is shown in Table 
XXIII and in Figure 14. 

TABLE XXIII 
Proportion of Specd?ic Anns Classified in Four Groups 

Proceedings of 
Journal of **** P** 6 ** 

Homo Economics B ^££o°m\cs 



A. Technique and habit-formation . . . £ £ 

B. Information £ £ 

C. General aims } i 

D. Formation of critical judgments ... £ £ 



But there is an equal emphasis upon the importance of developing 
general powers. One-fifth emphasize skill and habit-formation, informa- 
tion, and problem-solving ability. Two-fifths of the statements reveal 
an interest in the broader and more dynamic aspects of education. Such 



INADEQUATE PURPOSES FOR TEACHING 61 

statements as the following illustrate tlus interest: "to develop power 
to trace cause and effect"; "to develop good taste as regards form and 
color in furnishings and clothing"; "to obtain right attitude of mind 
toward the home"; "to establish a close connection between school and 
daily life"; " to lead to improvement in the condition of home life " ; "to 
develop a sense of personal responsibility for the home " ; " to emphasize 
the social aspect of education." 




A. Technique ud hj.bit-formsf.wn 

B. IrJonnstiun 

C. Gcoenl airai 

D. Formation of eritiad judgments 

Fig. 14. — The extent to which various aims are emphasiz< 
Economics and in the Proceedings of the Lake Placid Conferi 



Thus these "general" aims predominated. Culture was a highly 
lauded goal. "Sentiment," however, crept into the statement of the 
aims constantly, perhaps in part because of the lack of scientific analysis 
of the intellectual problem of stating educational aims clearly. Such 
phrases illustrate this, for example, as "it ennobles homely and practical 
duties of life by increasing respect for work; it ennobles life itself." 

Often other more general aims were met. For example, there was 
presented the problem of the home- to-community relationships. Very 
frequently in the minds of these workers was the question of how best 
to train the child for good citizenship. "The fourth R" — right living 



62 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

with only as much educational manipulation as was needed — was the 
point of view insisted upon by a few workers, and one which swayed 
the organization of home economics workers at least for a time. Thus 
the general point of view of some of the leaders shows that they have 
accepted the principle of "general" as opposed to "specific" education- 
Many of these leaders did not write the textbooks and the courses 
of study; so these important statements of function and purpose have 
not eventuated in curriculum materials themselves. As has already 
been indicated, this is a fundamental weakness in our scheme. State- 
ments of aim must be carried out through a proper organization and 
presentation of curriculum materials. 

IV. Point or View Typified by Writers on General Education 

i. Textbooks on education. — A canvass of many books on education 
reveals discussions of home economics in the following: Inglis: Principles 
of Secondary Education; Charters: Teaching the Common Branches; 
Cooley: Domestic Art in Woman 9 s Education; Johnston: High School 
Education; Hollister: High School Administration; Stout: The High 
School; Weeks: The People's School; Betts: Class-Room Method and 
Management; Davis: High School Courses of Study; Leake: The Voca- 
tional Education of Girls and Women; Leake: The Means and Methods 
of Agricultural Education. 

The same lack of definiteness is found in the writings of educationists. 
We believe that even a more sweeping criticism ought to be made of the 
extent to which teachers of "education" have analyzed the fundamental 
problems of home economics education than has already been made of 
the leaders of home economics themselves. A careful study of the 
statements of these writers reveals no systematic program. Of twenty- 
seven definite statements which were given, only two laid stress upon 
the basic importance of setting courses of study so that general training 
could be given. The acquisition of information, the development of 
skills, and the securing of various intangible outcomes of instruction — 
these are the important objectives according to these writers. It is 
perfectly clear that educationists have not applied their general theories 
to the specific problems of home economics education. We have been 
unable to formulate from their statements a program of reconstruction- 
Note these statements: "On the one hand the subject holds place due 
to a kind of exercise, both muscular and mental, which they need when 
they engage in manual work." "The faculty of observation is trained 
with lessons in tidiness"; "to apply intelligence and system to house- 
work"; "to learn how to cook and make hats." Another author states 



INADEQUATE PURPOSES FOR TEACHING 63 

that the real aim is "to give certainty to guesswork, to learn how to 
apply science, and to develop ability to initiate." Only occasionally do 
any of these writers emphasize strongly the importance of the problem- 
solving phases of the work as is illustrated in Figure 15. 

2. Home economics circulars of Bureau of Education. — The examina- 
tion of the home economics circulars of the United States Bureau of 
Education merely confirms the conclusions arrived at from our analysis 
of textbooks and printed courses of study. Information to be given, so 
much skill to be sought after — these stand out again and again. When- 
ever aims are differentiated for elementary and secondary schools, 
habit-formation, technique, and skill predominate for the elementary 
course, and the acquiring of information for high-school instruction. 
For example, one gathers that machine sewing should be taught in the 
elementary schools because it will develop motor control and manipu- 
lation. The dignity of home-making is extolled with the development 
of generalized habits of "personal neatness" and "quiet orderliness." 
The same tendency to keep "cultural" outcomes to the forefront reveals 
itself in these home economics circulars as in the textbooks and other 
publications. All phases of information were to be emphasized, but the 
student was to be made completely conscious of the cultural values in 
home economics teaching. 

3. Teachers College Record. — Analysis of the statements of the func- 
tion of home economics as given in the Teachers College Record was also 
made and is included in the tabulation shown in Table XXIV and 

Figure 15. 

TABLE XXIV 

Number of Times That Specific Types of Aims Are Listed by the Writers 

on General Education 

A. Technique and habit-formation 19 

B. Information 18 

C. General aims 21 

D. Formation of critical judgments 10 

"General" and intangible aims play a large part. An emphasis 
upon the analytical, reasoning, and problem-solving functions was 
lacking. Writers here, as elsewhere, are primarily concerned with having 
children learn masses of home-making facts and acquire certain skills. 

V. Evidence from Surveys of Home Economics Education 

1. The Koos report. — The most complete analysis of the scope, 
function, and objectives of home economics was made by Professor L. V. 
Koos, as secretary of the Commission on the Reorganization of the 



64 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

Secondary School Units of the North Central Association of Colleges and 
Secondary Schools. His report, issued in 1917,' pictured the organization 
and administration of home economics and household art courses in 
sixty-three high schools in fourteen north central states. Half of the 
high schools were in Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin. Among other 
things Professor Koos collected from the teachers their statements of 
aim. Specific aims reported in his study involved for home economics: 
(1) to develop skill in performing household activities; (a) to give informa- 
tion concerning home industries and concerning materials; (3) to teach 



- Technique and I libit- formation 



D. Formation o! critic*! judfDKDU 

Fig. 15. — The extent to which various aims are emphasized by writers on general 



principles of economy in terms of cost and expenditure of energy; (4) to 
create interest in home making; (5) to develop a scientific attitude toward 
household activities; (6) to create a desire to improve the living conditions of 
the family or of the community; (7) to show the relation of civic and economic 
problems to the home. Table XCIII [Table XXV in this monograph) con- 
tains the compilation of the responses to this request. If we bear in mind 

' Koos, L. V., The Administration of Secondary-School Units. Supplementary 
Educational Monographs, Vol. I, No. 3. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1917. 



INADEQUATE PURPOSES FOR TEACHING 



65 



that the total number of responses received was sixty-three, the fact that 38, 
42, 39, and 34 teachers, respectively, concur in aims (1), (3), (4), and (6) as 
being most deserving of emphasis and that 22, 21, 19, and 22 additional 

TABLE XXV 

Number of Teachers Concurring in Each of the Various 

Aims in Home Economics 



Aims 


• 

Number or Teachers 


Emphasizing 


Giving Most Emphasis 


1 


22 

47 
21 

19 

33 
22 

3o 


38 

II 

42 

39 
22 


1 


4. 


5 . . . .• 


6 


34 
6 


7 







teachers, respectively, emphasize them, signifies that these aims are con- 
sidered valid by all or practically all teachers. There is rather general con- 
currence also in the remaining ones. 

specific aims in household art 

The following specific aims in household art were listed in the question- 
naire, and the teachers were requested to single-check those .being emphasized 
and to double-check those receiving most emphasis in their classes: (1) to 
emphasize the informational side of the work (i.e., study of the loom, modern 
industrial conditions, economics, etc.) ; (2) to develop appreciation of beauty 

TABLE XXVI 

Number of Teachers Concurring in Each of the Various 

Aims in Household Art 



A 111 8 


Number or Teachers 


Emphasizing 


Giving Most Emphasis 


I 


44 

32 

9 


5 
25 
52 


2 


2 





in material and construction; (3) to develop habits of skill and industry. 
Table XCIV [Table XX VT of this monograph] contains the compilation of 
responses to this request. The order of recognition given these aims is at 
once seen to be the reverse of that in which they have been here named. 



66 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

His study confirms the two important conclusions derived from 
our other tabulations: first, there is very little agreement among teachers 
of home economics as to just what they are striving for in their instruc- 
tion; secondly, they are emphasizing informational and technique out- 
comes. 

2. The contribution of the Cleveland survey, — An important dis- 
cussion of our problem is found in the analysis that was made by 
Alice C. Boughton of household art work in the Cleveland schools. The 
survey included the organization of courses, the preparation of the 
teachers, a study of the curriculum itself, of methods of teaching, and 
of purposes and functions of the course. Her comments confirm our 
conclusions point by point. In discussing the training, experience, and 
point of view of the teaching staff, she says: 

They have little perspective with regard to their subject. If ever they do 
stop to question, they concern themselves with the hows rather than with 
the whats or whys of their work. 

Note the emphasis upon technique, upon skill, upon being able to 
manipulate: 

Every teacher should have a distinct end in mind toward the fulfillment 
of which she is bending all effort, and a dear idea of tools and materials required 
to bring her plans to fruition. Instead of this there is blankness and mis- 
understanding when questions as to the general function and purpose of 
household arts are raised. The following is a case in point. 

She presents a case in which a teacher was giving a lesson on peanut 
cookies. The teacher was asked why she was teaching peanut cookies 
at this particular time. The reply was that they were in the course! 
Miss Boughton's survey points out that more time should have been 
spent by the teachers of home economics in trying to find what their 
subject ought definitely to contribute to the girl's education, what its 
aims were, and in how far results obtained corresponded to the end 
desired. From a study of a school survey, Figure 16 graphically illustrates 
that information is receiving the greatest emphasis; that there is also 
undue emphasis on technique and habit-formation as compared with the 
attention given to forming critical judgment. 

Further light can be obtained upon the relation between the curricu- 
lum and objectives by reference to Miss Boughton's analysis of the way 
in which the Cleveland course of study was made. The old method of 
making a course of study was " to take from a well-stocked mind a neat 



INADEQUATE PURPOSES FOR TEACHING 67 

collection of facts which could be arranged in orderly and logical sequence 
and so given to the child." She illustrates by three lessons which can 
be found on page 27 of the report. 

In such a fashion the whole course went on its deadly way, for in their desire 
to be logical the makers overlooked the psychological. Apparently they for- 
got that the way they themselves learned to measure, cook, and wash dishes, 
was by measuring, cooking, and washing dishes when there was a real reason 
for doing so, and some sort of a penalty in not doing the task well. 



A. Technique ud hibtt-fofmUioB 



Fig. 16. — The extent to which various aims are emphasised in school surveys 

She raises pertinent questions of emphasis: 
Where shall the emphasis be put — on production or use ? Shall all the girls 
be perfected in skilled ability to cook, sew, and sweep, or be given standards 
concerning cooking, sewing, sweeping, and the other technique of house- 
keeping ? Which is more vital for them, to know how to make a good loaf 
of bread, or how to recognize good bread when they see it ? The viewpoint 
of the present report is that general intelligent understanding is more important 
than detailed skill in accomplishment. The object of the work is to have the 
girls leam to know by doing. 



68 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

SUMMARY OF CURRENT STATEMENTS OP OBJECTIVES AND OUTCOMES 

Several conclusions can be set forth as typical of the general situation. 
First, there is a very evident lack of clear thinking about the goals of 
instruction in home economics. This is shown by the vague terminology 
which is used in the literature, by the great variety of aims, and by the 
fact that in a large group of teachers there is very little predominance of 
one aim over another. It can also be shown by the few statements of 
scope of home economics that one can find. The Cleveland survey 
report is unique in that it has a program. It is a means of analysis and 
criticism. It is primarily educational in point of view. 

The second outstanding conclusion from this discussion is that 
instruction in home economics is committed largely to routine — to 
dealing out information. The course is to be set so that children shall 
know how to cook and sew, and scores of hours are devoted to the 
routine of such things. Still greater is the waste, however, due to the 
striking emphasis upon the acquiring of facts and information. This 
report calls attention to the fact that this emphasis upon routine is not 
peculiar to the home economics field, that formalism pervades the 
teaching of mathematics, spelling, history, geography, arithmetic, even 
the scientific subjects of the high school. 

In the third place, it is very evident that the program as set forth 
in the statement of aims is carried out in general in the textbook. 



CHAPTER VI 

NEW PURPOSES FOR TEACHING: TRAINING POWERS OF THINKING 

AND ENJOYMENT 

Need for unifying principles in the school subjects. — Improvement of 
the teaching of the school subjects waits upon the discovery of great 
unifying principles in each one. For example, take mathematics. We 
have seen stagnation in the conduct of mathematical instruction in the 
public schools of this country because of the inability of the mathe- 
matical group to find a great central purpose for the course and to 
organize curriculum materials about it which will contribute to the 
fulfilment of the objective. "Science," in its public-school form, has 
failed to put new mental virus into the curriculum primarily because 
the development of subject-matter and its presentation have been 
unaccompanied by a thoroughgoing statement of unifying principles. 
The mere introduction of new subject-matter has been insufficient just 
as it has been at various times in the history of our mathematics cur- 
riculum. The same fate awaits the movement to build a public-school 
curriculum around the social studies unless the basic laws and pro- 
cedure in thinking and in enjoying are discovered and linked up effec- 
tively with a curriculum and teaching procedure which is thoroughly in 
harmony with it. 

It is possible to show in mathematics (and it will be possible to show 
in the physical, biological, or social sciences) that there is one funda- 
mental underlying principle of intellectual learning: the ability to see 
relationships. The primary function of all school instruction on the 
intellectual side should be the training of children in the use of those 
higher mental processes which are primarily analytical, discriminatory, 
differentiating, reasoning in character, and to which all other processes 
should be subordinated. Not the acquisition of facts in mathematics, 
in the social studies, in science, in language, not the development of 
hand skill, carried to such a point as to eventuate in "trade" efficiency, 
but rather a goal should be held before us of so organizing all our cur- 
riculum materials and our class exercises that children shall be made 
effective thinkers. That they shall be able to draw correct inferences 
from tangled situations, shall be critical of their tendencies to act upon 
first impulses, shall be able to draw sound conclusions — these are basic 

69 



70 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

• 
purposes. This, along the intellectual side, we believe to be a funda- 
mental principle of curriculum-making and to be a necessary first step 
in the statement of a sound scheme of objectives in education. 

We have deliberately illustrated our discussion of the central 
principles of teaching from school subjects other than home economics. 
The home economics group should be much concerned in working out the 
future of public-school instruction in such a subject in collaboration 
with workers in the other subjects. It will be seen that the primary 
objective of the intellectual training that we give children in our school 
subjects is a scientific attitude. This in turn can be developed only by 
constructing our course of study around a core of problem-solving 
situations. The development of a grasp of scientific law — this is the 
principal intellectual goal of instruction. All emphasis upon the acquisi- 
tion of socially worth-while facts should be subordinated to it — in fact, 
curriculum materials of that sort should be selected primarily in terms 
of the degree to which they contribute to it. Similarly, our education 
must not be centered fundamentally upon the development of hand 
technique, of muscular co-ordination. True enough, a considerable 
amount of training must be devoted to the development of a sufficient 
degree of skill in certain commonly used processes so that our children 
will be socially equipped to meet home-making situations, but the pre- 
ponderance of our time and energy should be directed at these other 
more important objectives. 

Home economics: a great applied science of the public-school cur- 
riculum. — Certainly for city schools home economics provides the con- 
tent for the application of scientific principles more thoroughly than 
does any other subject of study. It is the belief of many of us that 
the whole elementary and secondary curriculum needs revamping in 
terms of the degree to which, intellectually at least, it can contribute 
to the development of the scientific attitude. The pure sciences, intro- 
duced lower in the school curriculum, have failed to do this. The 
applied sciences give far greater promise of being the vehicle by which 
this outcome can be obtained. On the intellectual side, therefore, it is 
the point of view of the writers of this monograph that the great oppor- 
tunity of home economics is to recognize its function as the central 
applied science of the curriculum. In the fields of food and textiles the 
basic principles of chemistry can be made clear if the proper goal is 
held in mind and if the course of study is framed in terms of it. Cer- 
tainly elementary but fundamental laws of physics find their applica- 
tions in the study of food. A few important principles of bacteriology 



NEW PURPOSES FOR TEACHING 71 

can be developed through the study of sanitation, hygiene, and food, 
and should be regarded as required essentials of scientific training in 
the elementary schools. In the same fashion a completely rounded-out 
applied science in home economics will show applications of biology 
and psychology in the very important fields of hygiene and child psy- 
chology. The field of household art can justify its place in this general 
home economics curriculum in the degree to which it turns right-about- 
face from emphasizing the acquisition of fact and the development of 
skill, and lays an emphasis upon the development of standards of 
judgment and of the basic principles of the science of economics through 
the study of consumers' problems, through a proper acquaintance with, 
and appreciation of, the budget, problems of buying, etc. Thus, on 
the intellectual side, our program for the remaking of the objectives of 
home economics education emphasizes the generalized outcomes, and 
would set up in clear relief home economics as the great applied science 
of the curriculum. Only for the rural districts would we grant that any 
other definite body of subject-matter — agriculture — can give the same 
opportunity to carry over into effective learning the basic principles of 
scientific law. To accept this program, home economics workers 
generally will be forced to repudiate the situation which our report 
shows to be prevalent. We urge a complete recasting of the whole 
point of view. 

Abilities of enjoyment and appreciation. — We are thoroughly critical 
of the failure of public education today to develop the important atti- 
tudes and qualities of "enjoyment." It is clear that home economics 
has failed, with the other subjects, to fulfil this important function. 
We would set up as the second and equally important objective of the 
course the development of ability to enjoy "good" things — aesthetically 
right arrangement of color elements, line arrangement, etc. 

No psychology of appreciation. — Any group of workers dealing with 
this problem is today practically inhibited from proposing a complete 
program through which instruction may eventuate in these aesthetic 
outcomes. We have no psychology of appreciation. Even in the 
field of art, teachers, practical workers in the field, and the psychologists 
have so far failed to contribute singly, or in co-operation, a definite 
concrete analysis of these intangible mental processes, and of the methods 
by which they may be developed. This will include a recognition of the 
important place in this field of the contribution of intellectual elements. 
For example, one can show that the ability to appreciate is contributed 
to in a very marked way by the proper introduction of new ideas. There 



72 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

axe many practical illustrations of the statement also that ability to 
enjoy and appreciate in music, literature, art, or the drama is contributed 
to strongly by habituation. The illustration is commonly met of persons 
who have learned to enjoy orchestral symphonies by training themselves 
with victrola records and through informing themselves of the charac- 
teristics of the symphonies. 

Thus we would set in a new perspective the great central purpose of 
home economics education. In doing so the basic question is raised: 
Where shall emphasis be placed — on perfection of ability to cook and 
sew, or upon the development of standards of critical judgment con- 
cerning food, diet, selection of dress, distribution of the income, house 
planning, arrangement of furnishings, development of ideas and habits 
of good arrangement? It is as the Cleveland survey says: "Which is 
more vital — to know how to make a good loaf of bread, or to recognize 
a good loaf of bread when they see it?" Certainly we will agree that 
intelligent understanding i§ indeed far more important than the per- 
fection of skill, either manual or intellectual. 

THE OUTCOMES OF INSTRUCTION: NEED FOR A SYSTEMATIC PROGRAM 

No statement of goals will eventuate in thorough-going outcomes 
except through specific enumeration of those outcomes themselves. 
Consider the situation in any of the school subjects. One very real 
reason why we have not been able to teach children to handle language 
correctly is that we rarely, if ever, have stated concretely the specific 
mental achievements which we hope to have our children attain. For 
teaching to be effective, classroom processes must be aimed, not only at 
general goals, but also at specific outcomes. The spelling of particular 
words shall be automatized ioo per cent. Certain skills in the four 
fundamentals of arithmetic shall be absolutely mastered. The required 
skill to handle these operations in mathematics or in science, to 
use these language forms in a foreign language or in the vernacular, 
will be developed only when teachers enumerate definitely the specific 
mental outcomes in which their instruction is to result. 

So it is with instruction in home economics. The specific description 
of particular outcomes from teaching will not only aid the teachers in 
framing their classroom work so as to bring about the desired result, 
but will also make our whole group very critical of much of the material 
itself. An important influence upon the elimination of waste material 
from the present-day curriculum in home economics will be revealed by 
this movement for specific delimitation of outcomes. 



NEW PURPOSES FOR TEACHING 73 

Outcomes must be stated in psychological terms. It must not be 
forgotten, however, that if the statement is to affect teaching, it must 
be phrased in terms of "learning." We have already referred to the 
striking need for the development of a psychology of home economics. 
We have suggested a fourfold scheme of thinking. This scheme includes 
the important categories of (1) the fixing of meanings or the acquisition 
of socially worth-while facts; (2) the development of an optimum (not 
a maximum or "trade") amount of hand technique and of intellectual 
habit-formation; (3) the perfection of abilities of critical judgment; 
and (4) the development of the power to enjoy and appreciate things 
that have been found to be aesthetically right. 

Some such practical scheme of thinking about the goals of instruction 
is necessary for definite outcomes to result from teaching. Good teach- 
ing will ensue only through clear thinking concerning how children 
learn. Attention should be given to the importance of the development 
of an applied psychology in our field. We believe that the chaotic sit- 
uation described in chapters i and iii has developed primarily because 
of the lack of clear thinking about both the purposes and the methods 
of instruction. Pupils will have a clear grasp of the subject-matter unly 
when we have enough knowledge of how children learn to utilize it in 
teaching. 

Teachers generally are recognizing in these days that the funda- 
mental pedagogical need is to clear up thinking about the mental pro- 
cesses which are involved in the learning of school subjects. How are 
clear ideas formed in home economics? What is an idea from the 
standpoint of our subject-matter? What different types of mental 
processes are involved in forming powers of critical judgment that are 
not involved in acquiring information? Furthermore, a statement of 
such a psychological sort needs to be detailed and immediately related 
to particular teaching problems in home economics. Not with general 
laws of attention, memory, imagination, etc., are we concerned — not 
how to memorize in general is the aim — but rather how to master effec- 
tively and economically specific home economics facts that are socially 
worth while, facts concerning the production of materials in textiles; the 
testing and adulteration of fibers; the weave construction of principal fab- 
rics; facts concerning the nutritive value of food most commonly used. 
From the standpoint of economical and effective learning we are very 
much concerned with best methods of teaching a clear grasp of foundation 
recipes, of basic patterns in constructive work in sewing, the fixing of 
important principles of construction. How best can the teacher autom- 



74 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

atize those important mental skills in which the process of wise selection 
and judgment should become automatic — for example, in the buying of 
food and textiles, in the harmonious arrangement of proper colors, in the 
combination of proper food in a well-planned diet ? These are illustra- 
tive of the psychological questions which should be considered. 

The perfection of abilities of critical judgment has been set up as 
an all-controlling aim for consideration. The teacher's thinking con- 
cerning such goals needs to be aided by clear statements of the mental 
processes which contribute to powers of judgment. How can the 
subject-matter of home economics, for example, be arranged so as to 
contribute this fundamental ability of analytical thinking? By what 
means can the curriculum and classroom-instruction be organized so as 
to have it eventuate in the scientific attitude ? 



CHAPTER VII 

MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING IN TEXTILES, DRESS 
. DESIGN, SEWING, AND HOUSE PLANNING 

There are two effective methods by which a sound scheme of instruc- 
tion in home economics can be organized. The first necessitates the 
clear statement of goals of instruction. This we have canvassed in 
detail in chapter v and incidentally in other sections of this report. The 
second is the design and use of standardized tests to measure the results 
of instruction. In the past few years, educational leaders have rapidly 
taken over the use of scientific technique. The very essence of their 
systematic methods has been the design of instruments by which traits 
and activities can be measured. 

Even though the movement is still very young, more than one hun- 
dred standardized tests are available in the various school subjects. 
To measure the results of teaching arithmetic, it is possible to make use 
of a number of rather well-standardized tests for formal abilities, such 
as the Courtis Standard Research Tests, Series B, the Woody Arithmetic 
Scales, the Cleveland Survey Arithmetic Tests, the Monroe Diagnostic 
Tests, and others. The ability of children to reason with arithmetic 
materials can also be tested by such tests as the Stone Reasoning Test, 
the Monroe Standardized Reasoning Test, or the Buckingham Reasoning 
Tests. In spelling, a teacher can construct her daily tests from the 
graded lists in the Ayres Spelling Scale or the Iowa Dictation and Spelling 
Tests. Examinations which are constructed in this way are themselves 
"standardized" in that the difficulty of each of the words which is 
selected is known. Similarly, it is possible to measure a pupil's rate of 
reading with different kinds of material. Important achievements or 
defects in oral reading ability can be checked up by Gray's Oral 
Reading Test. A pupil's understanding of sentences and his visual 
vocabulary can be determined definitely by the two Thorndike tests — 
Thorndike* s Scale Alpha 2 for Measuring the Understanding of Sentences 
and Thorndike *s Reading Scale A 2 and B: Word Knowledge or Visual 
Vocabulary. From the unusual amount of material that is being 
developed at the present time by various investigators, it is a safe pre- 
diction that within the next few years it will be possible to find varieties 
of standardized reading materials which will test adequately the ability 

75 



76 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

of a pupil: (i) to read and analyze a problem; (2) to read and select 
essential ideas; or (3) to read and organize material. 

The measuring movement is permanent. — We could continue with the 
other school subjects. Suffice it to say that, rather completely for the 
elementary-school subjects and in part for those of the high school, this 
work of constructing standardized test material has gone on. Even 
now it is having a decided effect on the established subjects of the 
elementary and secondary curriculum. The measuring movement is 
beyond the realm of theory and prophecy. Measurement is becoming 
one of the definitely accepted tools of a thoroughly equipped school 
administrator. Teachers are being trained in the handling of measur- 
ing instruments and in the utilization of results. 

Few tests available in home economics. — There have been no published 
tests for home economics to the present time. 1 We report in this chapter 
and the next the preliminary investigations of this matter that have 
been set in motion by the present writers. These preliminary tests are 
reported at this time because the design and use of tests is the center of 
a complete program for the reconstruction of home economics work in 
the public schools. There is no desire at present to report these as 
standardized tests. Extensive activity, however, should be stimulated 
among home economics leaders and teachers in the construction and use 
of such measuring devices. We have proceeded far enough at the present 
time to recognize clearly the importance of this work. There can now be 
seen the relation of standardized tests in home economics to the design 
of a sound course of study, how such tests contribute to the improve- 
ment of classroom teaching, and their close connection with problems of 
learning. A necessary first step in the development of educational 
measurement is the detailed analysis of the mental processes which are 
utilized in learning the subject-matter of the field. 

FOUR TYPES OF STANDARDIZED TESTS IN HOME ECONOMICS 

Concretely, in home economics there will be four types of standard- 
ized tests — one to fit each of the four main classes of instructional 
outcomes. 

First, we shall have a test, or a series of tests, for the acquisition of 
information, a test for the extent to which children have mastered the 

1 After this section of the monograph was completed Dr. Murdoch's interesting 
text came from the press: Murdoch, {Catherine, The Measurement of Certain Elements 
of Hand Sewing. Teachers College Contributions to Education, No. 103. New York: 
Teachers College, Columbia University, 19 19. 



MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 77 

socially worth-while facts which have been set up through the cur- 
riculum. 

Secondly, since the development of manual and intellectual skills is 
one of the established goals of our teaching, there will be need for scales 
and tests to measure the extent to which children have mastered tech- 
nique. Scales for skill in sewing, for example, will be utilized by home 
economics teachers in the same effective way that handwriting scales 
are now being used by hundreds of teachers. 

Thirdly, but most important of all, we shall test the ability of 
children to "think" — to reason — when dealing with home economics 
material. We are primarily concerned with reasoning tests — measures 
of their powers of critical judgment. Certainly no preliminary inves- 
tigation should overlook this phase of the matter. 

Fourthly, the enjoyment outcomes have been referred to in this 
report through a discussion of the development of appreciation and 
tastes. The scheme of measuring will be incomplete unless the next 
few years of research result in definite contributions in the field of 
testing aesthetic abilities. 1 There are already concrete evidences in 
published literature of art which show the possibility of application in 
house planning, decoration, and costume design. Thus we have the four- 
fold scheme of testing — acquisition of information, development of manual 
and mental skills, powers of judgment, and abilities of enjoyment and 
appreciation. 

TESTS FOR REASONING ABILITY IN TEXTILES, DRESS DESIGN, SEWING, 

AND HOUSE PLANNING 

Two instructors in the University of Chicago 2 during the past year 
have been working on the problem of developing reasoning and informa- 
tion tests in the field of household art. The work is still in the experi- 
mental stage, but sufficient progress has been made so that a preliminary 
statement can be given at this time. In this report attention has been 
focused constantly on the importance of developing power of critical 
judgment. Therefore, in setting forth the possibility of developing 
educational measurements in home economics, the design of instruments 
for testing reasoning outcomes is first discussed. Parts of the reason- 
ing tests with percentages of pupils failing and score values follow. 

"Whitfoid, W. G. f "Empirical Study of Pupil-Ability in Public-School Art 
Courses," Part I, Elementary School Journal, XX (September, 19 19), 33-46. 

'Leona F. Bowman and Mabel B. Trilling. 



78 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

REASONING AND CONTENT TESTS 

Series A 

I. If you were testing upholstering cretonnes, check in the following list 
the best test for determining fastness of color : 

i. Rub the fabric with a piece of moist white cloth. 

2. Obtain a sample of the material and subject it to the ordinary 

rubbing and soaping which must be used in cleansing such 
material. 

3. Expose a sample for a number of days to the sunlight, having half 

of it covered with something which will exclude light. 

Percentage of pupils failing 46 

Score value 48* 

•Method of determining score values is discussed on pages 94-97. 

II. To test woolen material for shoddy, check the best test to use from 
the following list: 

1. Examine the sample under the microscope to see if there are fibers 

of many colors. 

2. Burn samples of both warp and woof threads, noticing the odor 

and the type of residue. 

3. Boil the sample for a few minutes to remove sizing. 

Percentage of pupils failing 88 

Score value 69 

III. To test a material for true and artificial silk, check the test in the 
following list which would be best to use: 

1. The burning test. 

2. The microscopic test. 

3. The breaking test. 

Percentage of pupils failing 56 

Score value 52 



Series B 

Directions: This is a test of reasoning ability and judgment. Some of 
the conclusions presented in the following exercises are good; others are bad. 
Make a cross after the best answer or conclusion to each. 

I. If you were asked to select a suitable house dress for a short, stout 
woman you should select: 

1. A Scotch plaid gingham. 

2. A striped black and white silk. 

3. A dark worsted to be trimmed in bands of black silk braid. 

4. A dark blue linen with white collar and cuffs. 

Percentage of pupils failing 30 

Score value 40 



MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 79 

II. If you had plenty of money with which to buy yourself a school dress 
for next winter, you should buy: 

1. A velvet dress. 

2. A serge dress. 

3. A broadcloth dress. 

4. A taffeta silk dress. 

Percentage of pupils failing 30 

Score value 40 

IV. If you are to design a party dress for a very tall girl of about your age, 
you should use: 

1. Striped material made with panel drapes. 

2. Plain material made with ruffles, shirring, or horizontal tucks. 

3. Embroidered material made with a wide girdle and plaited skirt. 

Percentage of pupils failing 30 

Score value 40 

VI. If you find that the skirt pattern which you have bought is two inches 
too long, you should: 

1. Cut two inches off at the bottom of the pattern. 

2. Cut two inches off at the top of the pattern. 

3. Cut one inch off at the top and one inch off at the bottom. 

4. Lay a one-inch tuck crosswise of the pattern about 10 inches 

down from the top. 

Percentage of pupils failing 30 

Score value 40 

VII. Suppose you have a good-fitting sleeve pattern, but the sleeve is 
not full enough for the prevailing fashion. You should add fulness by: 

1. Adding an inch or two to each side of the pattern. 

2. By laying a lengthwise fold in the material before placing pattern 

and cutting material, and later correcting the upper curve of 
sleeve in the material. 

3. By cutting the pattern apart lengthwise on the upper side insert- 

ing a piece and correcting the curve before cutting material. 

Percentage of pupils failing 61 

Score value 56 

VIII. If wrinkles in the waist which you are making run from the neck 
at the shoulder seam slanting to the armseye, you should: 

1. Take up the shoulder seam at the point of the shoulder. 

2. Take up the shoulder seam at the neck. 

3. Take out some fulness under the arm. 

Percentage of pupils failing 81 

Score value 67 

IX. Suppose you have $6.00 with which to buy material for your 
graduating dress. You wish this dress to be serviceable and appropriate for 



8o 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



wear during the summer for the theater, receptions, dances, dinners, and club. 
You should select: 

i. White cashmere 42 inches wide at Si . 50 per yard. 

2. Dimity 32 inches wide at $0. 50 per yard. 

3. White galatea 32 inches wide at $0.40 per yard. 

4. White lawn 27 inches wide at $0. 50 per yard. 

5. White organdie 36 inches wide at $1 . 50 per yard. 

6. Persian lawn 36 inches wide at So. 75 per yard. 

7. Swiss 32 inches wide at Si. 00 per yard. 

8. Cr6pe de Chine 40 inches wide at Si . 50 per yard. 

Percentage of pupils failing 24 

Score value 36 



Series C 
Directions: 

This is a test of reasoning ability and judgment. Some of the conclusions 

presented in the following exercises are good; others are bad. Make a cross 

after the best answer or conclusion to each. 

I. The areas of the following floor-plans are the same. The one which 

is most economical to use in building a small house is: 





4_ 





a) The L floor-plan; b) The T floor-plan; c) The square floor-plan; d) The 
cross floor-plan. 

Percentage of pupils failing 36 

Score value 43 

V. I wish to increase the apparent height of this room as much as possible, 

therefore: 

1. The picture-molding should be on a line with the upper casing of 

doors; the wall-paper plain; curtains hanging straight; mission 
furniture, which emphasizes horizontal lines. 

2. Pattern in paper should suggest horizontal lines; molding on 

line with upper casing of windows; furniture of Hepplewhite 
design; hangings draped back, and in color, harmonious with 
the background of the wall-paper. 

3. Wall-paper should be striped; picture-molding at angle of wall 

and ceiling; panel pictures; mission furniture; hangings in 
straight folds. 

Percentage of pupils failing 60 

Score value 54 



MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 8l 

Scope of the reasoning tests. — Reasoning tests have been experimented 
with by the present writers in three fields of subject-matter: textiles, 
dress design and sewing, house planning and furnishing. These tests 
have been given in nine high schools, in and about Chicago, to 148 
pupils. It is obvious that no test can be standardized on the basis of so 
small a number as 148 pupils. This material is reported as illustrative 
of the technique of constructing tests for reasoning in home economics. 
Through the experimentation much has been learned about the design 
of those tests, so that the redesign which is in progress for the purpose of 
standardization will be very much more effective. These tests were not 
timed tests. A gross time limit was set for each series which permitted 
all who had average ability to finish the tests. 

How reasoning tests in home economics can be used. — School principals 
and superintendents as well as teachers should be concerned with check- 
ing up the degree to which instruction has emphasized thought processes 
rather than information and technique. They can do this effectively 
by the use of reasoning tests. One of the important functions of a 
reasoning test is, therefore, to measure objectively the work of vari- 
ous pupils, to compare results, grade with grade and teacher with 
teacher. 

This is not the most important administrative use, however, for such 
tests, nor the one which after all conduces in the most important way 
to effective class instruction. Teachers can test pupils with reasoning 
tests, such as we have described, to check up the degree to which they 
are properly classified within classes. Furthermore, the results of such 
testing tell the teacher very clearly, indeed, whether certain pupils are 
mastering essential principles — whether they are grasping central ideas. 
The teacher becomes critical of her own judgment; she raises serious 
questions whether children's powers of judgment are really being devel- 
oped. Thus tests designed in accordance with sound principles will 
supply school people with accurate means of differentiating between the 
degrees to which instruction has emphasized one or another outcome. 
Later in this chapter we shall discuss the fundamental criterion for 
the design, of reasoning tests. 

Possibility of measuring growth of children. — Not only will the 
result of being able to differentiate between the reasoning abilities of 
different children be obtained, but an important method of deter- 
mining the degree to which children have grown in ability will also 
be supplied. 



82 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

TESTS FOR INFORMATION IN TEXTILES, DRESS DESIGN, SEWING, AND 

HOUSE PLANNING 

A second important recognized outcome of instruction is the acquisi- 
tion of socially worth-while facts. Stress should be laid upon the phrase 
"socially worth-while." In home economics, as in other subjects, we 
need many "social" studies, the conduct of which will lead to the 
determination of factual material which can be shown to have definite 
social value. The designers of information tests in other school subjects 
have, in the main, constructed tests to fit what is prevalent in the course 
of study, and not what can be shown to be socially worth while. For 
example, in history tests are constructed to fit the content of twenty- 
three commonly used textbooks. In geography the same procedure has 
been followed. Even in the construction of a recent spelling scale the 
selection of words has been based upon their frequency of use in new 
spelling books. The reader should understand clearly, therefore, that 
the practice of selecting the content of a test so as to fit prevalent usage is 
but a transition measure — a makeshift. The urgent need is for establish- 
ment of minimum essentials by means of scientific procedure. 

At present, however, the only justifiable method of determining 
minimum essentials until such social studies have been made is through 
a comparative study of the textbooks and printed courses of study in 
use in the schools. The subject-matter which is common may be con- 
sidered essentially worth while, from the various authors' points of 
view. This method was followed in designing our information tests 
which are illustrated in Exercises I and II. 

CONTENT TEST— TEXTILES 

EXEKdSE I 

Directions: 

Check with the initial letters (c for cotton, / for flax, s for silk, and w for 
wool) those places in the following list where one or more of these textile fibers 
are produced. 

For example, silk, wool, and flax are produced in France. Therefore, 
France — s, w, /. 

Begin with this column: 

Percentage of Percentage of 

Pupils Failing Pupils Failing 

i. Belgium 50 9. Georgia 26 

2. Minnesota 76 10. India 2 

3. Scotland 30 n. Thibet 76 

4. North Carolina 36 12. Italy 13 

5. Australia 54 13. Sea Islands 69 

6. Egypt 38 14. China 15 

7. Ireland 44 15. Colorado 55 

8. Japan 8 



MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 



83 



Exercise n 
Directions: 

Below is a list of terms used in the manufacture of textiles. 

ticular example of each as: Reeling — silk. 



Give a par- 



Percentage of 
Pupils Failing 

i. Calendering 62 

2. Hackling 63 

3. Ginning 12 

4. Weighting 62 

5. Throwing 75 

6. Breaking 70 



Percentage of 
Pupils Failing 

7. Felting 44 

8. Retting 69 

9. Degumming 55 

10. Scutching 76 

11. Baling 22 

12. Scouring 44 



Directions: 

Write the initial letter after each fabric which is manufactured from 
cotton; w after each fabric from wool; s after each from silk. If a fabric is 
manufactured from two or more of the textile fibers, place two or more initial 
letters after the name of each. 

Example: Moire* from both silk and cotton. Therefore, it should appear 
moire 1 — c, s. 



Percentage of 
Pupils Failing 

i. Taffeta 16 

2. Batiste 36 

3. Chiffon 45 

4. Mohair 94 

5. Calico 13 

6. Broadcloth 29 

7. Huckaback 19 

8. Organdie 33 

9. Silkaline 87 

10. Madras 57 

11. Gingham 13 

12. Panne velvet 64 

13. Muslin 15 



Percentage of 
Pupils Failing 

14. Chambray 26 

15. Swiss 29 

16. Georgette crepe 46 

17. Serge 16 

18. Plush 38 

19. Velveteen 84 

20. Crash 36 

21. Sateen 61 

22. Flaxon 69 

23. Voile 17 

24. Crdpe de Chine 39 

25. Khaki 42 



The chief purpose of these preliminary tests is to develop a critical 
attitude toward the curriculum. Suppose we found, as in the case of 
some of the tests that are reported in Exercise I, page 82, that 50 
per cent of the pupils failed to remember what fibers are produced in 
Belgium, that 76 per cent failed with Minnesota, but that only 8 per cent 
failed with Japan, and 2 per cent with India. What will one conclude 
from such findings? Are these percentages of failure, as in the case 
of reasoning tests, to be regarded as adequate measures of the ability 



84 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

of pupils to study and remember facts concerning textile fibers ? Our 
answer is "No," for two reasons: First, some of these facts are taught 
in other school subjects, especially geography. (Note the small per- 
centage of failure in the case of Japan and India.) Secondly, the 
"teaching emphasis" controls the percentages of failure. For example, 
in some of the classes which we tested, the small percentages of failure 
found for retention of certain facts were due clearly to the greater 
emphasis that had been laid on these facts by the teacher. The degree 
to which a teacher emphasizes certain subjects or phases of a subject, 
therefore, is reflected in the information test. Questions of this sort 
are raised because it should be made clear that information tests are 
not adequate measures of pupils' ability, and the design and construc- 
tion of such tests cannot rest upon the same principles as are used in 
reasoning tests. 

A suggested point of view on the design of information tests in home 
economics. — The first task is the construction of a sound course of study. 
This having been done, each phase of the subject-matter will be repre- 
sented by a statement of minimum essentials, of common ideas, which 
children should automatize and carry through their life-work. For 
example, there are certain fundamental principles in design, certain 
minimum standards for materials, certain foundational recipes which 
every woman in the home should know. Facts of this sort in all sub- 
jects of the curriculum can be determined, and, we believe, tested for 
periodically throughout the school career of the child, by complete 
information tests. This would mean, therefore, that there should be 
information tests covering each item of these minimum essentials which 
should be used at the end of a term or the end of a school year. These 
tests cannot be mere samples of the facts contained in the course. 
This would be one type of information test. They should be thought of 
rather as " all-inclusive" tests and should include all of the facts within 
a subject that the school sets up as minimum essentials. 

Accompanying these minimum-essential information tests, very 
general use should be made of tests which can be constructed and scored 
economically, and which will canvass the details of the work done 
week by week, and month by month, throughout the school year. 
"Completion" and "Checking" tests will be referred to later as two 
basic types which are effective and economical. It is clear that no 
minimum-essentials course can be effectively organized which is not 
supported by a very considerable amount of detailed subject-matter. 
It is these details, subordinated as they should be to great central 



.MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 85 

principles, that should be tested by information tests given at short 
intervals, perhaps once, twice, or three times a month throughout the 
year. 

Thus it appears that we shall have two distinctly different kinds of 
information tests in general use when minimum essentials have been 
agreed upon in home economics. In the meantime, however, there is 
urgent need of stimulating discussion of the testing movement itself. 
For that reason tentative tests should be constructed today which are 
based upon the best judgment we can get as to which facts (of those 
included in prevalent courses of study) should be automatized. This 
point of view is illustrated by tests reported herewith. 

Two types of information tests: (1) the completion test; (2) the checking 
test. — Two types of information tests have been designed by those who 
have used the results of the psychological experimentation of recent 
years. 

1. The completion test. This is illustrated by Exercise III. The 
completion-test scheme has been used for a generation since Ebbinghaus 
first hit upon it as an effective method of testing memorizing. In 
recent years many educational tests in language, history, geography, 
etc., have utilized this method. To use it, one sets up a series of sen- 
tences, omitting critical cue words. The ability to supply the missing 
information is regarded as a measure of two things: (1) the degree to 
which the child has the information demanded, and (2), to some extent, 
his intelligence. Scores of language completion tests, for example, cor- 
relate very highly indeed with other valuable kinds of intelligence 
material. Hence, in using an information test of the completion type, 
one never knows to what extent the score represents definite grasp of 
information or the amount contributed by intelligence. 

2. The checking test. For this reason many workers prefer the 
checking method. One form of this method is illustrated by Exercise 
IV. It consists of a series of statements, some of which are true and 
some of which are false. The student is asked to read the statements, 
deciding whether each one is true or false and to underline the appro- 
priate word. 



86 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

COMPLETION TEST 

_! . Exercise III 

Directions: 

Complete the sentences below by using one or more of the following list: 

cotton, silk, wool, linen, hemp, ramie, artificial silk. 

Percentage 
of Pupils 

i. Under the microscope many serrations can be seen on the Failin * 
fibers of : . . 62 

2. The fiber which has the appearance of a flat, twisted piece 

of ribbon is 73 

3. When applying the burning test the fibers which leave a 

large amount of residue and have the odor of burning 
feathers are 29 

4. When applying the burning test the fibers which have a 

white ash and the odor of burning paper or wood are. ... 19 

5. The strongest of the vegetable textile fibers is 98 

6. Under the microscope some fibers look like straight glass 

rods. These are 65 

7. The strongest animal fiber is 79 

8. Under the microscope certain fibers look as if they are 

jointed, or have nodes 69 

CHECKING TEST 

„ Exercise IV 

Directions: 

The statements below are either true or false. If the statement is true, 

underline the word "true" which follows the statement. If the statement is 

false, underline the word "false." Example: Wool is stronger than cotton 

(true , false ). 

Percentage 
of Pupils 

i. Broadcloth is more serviceable for general wear Failing 

than serge (true, false) 30 

2. Silk fiber is stronger than wool (true, false) 44 

. 3. Artificial silk has higher luster than true silk. . . (true, false) 57 

6. The mercerization of cotton weakens the fiber 

very much (true, false) 57 

■9. The woof thread should be stronger than the 

warp thread (true, false) 37 

12. Artificial silk is not serviceable material to use 

in garments which require much laundering. . (true, false) 76 

13. Serge is a worsted cloth of twill weave con- 

struction (true, false) 33 

17. Woolen under garments should be subjected to 

rubbing, soaping, and boiling for the purpose 

of cleansing such garments (true, false) 44 

18. Silk should never be pressed with a hot iron . . . (true, false) 15 

21. Broadcloth has no right nor wrong side (true, false) 50 

22. Dotted swiss has a right and wrong side (true, false) 26 

Method of scoring such tests. — The reader will note that a score 
obtained by such a method may be very much complicated by guessing ; 



1 



MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 



»7 



or "chance." If a "true or false" test is constructed properly, then a 
student who has never studied the subject at all can by guessing answer 
50 per cent of the questions correctly. Hence, in order to offset this 
weakness in scoring, a scheme has to be devised by which the guesser 
will receive a zero score. One way to do this is to subtract the number 
of incorrect answers from the number of correct answers. This is the 
most commonly used method. However, it does a distinct injustice to 
the pupil of considerable intelligence who is inclined to be an erratic 
worker. Especially is this true when the tests are conducted in a 
short period of time conditions, one minute, two minutes, three minutes, 
etc. The scores made by such pupils will be lower than their real ability. 
Because of such weaknesses, other forms of the checking method are 
utilized. We have made use of these methods in our preliminary inves- 
tigation. We refer to them in order that the reader who is interested 
in this work may have the benefit of the suggestions. 

Exercise V 

Underline the names of the seams which should be used in making a 
gingham dress. 



Location 



Straight skirt 

Under-arm seam of 

waist 

Shoulder 

Seam at armseye . . . 
Sleeve 



Kind of 


u 


Kind of 


ercentage 
Failing 


Kind of 


■! 


Seam 


{ft* 


Seam 


Seam 


* (3 




fe 




fe 




Px 


fell 


72 


French 


20 


plain 


36 


fell 


39 


French 


22 


plain 


60 


fell 


36 


French 


58 


plain 


66 


fell 


59 


French 


67 


plain 


65 


fell 


36 


French 


22 


plain 


55 



Kind of Seam 



false French 

false French 
false French 
false French 
false French 



li 



23 

27 

73 
39 
30 



4. Underline the names of the materials with which care must be 
taken so that the upper part of each piece in the pattern will lie in the 
same direction: 



Material 



I. 
2. 

3- 

4. 

5. 
6. 

7- 
8. 



Serge 

Georgette crepe 

Broadcloth 

Shepherd's check 

Brocades with vine design 

Velvet 

Satin 

Scotch plaid 



Percentage of 
Pupils Falling 



46 
16 

76 
76 
22 

67 
82 

15 



Score Value 



48 
30 
63 
63 
35 
58 
68 
29 



88 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



5. Underline the names of the materials with, which care must be 
taken in cutting because the material has a right and wrong side. 



Material 

1. Flannelette 

2. Taffeta silk 

3. Embroidered voile 

4. Broadcloth 

5. Satin 

6. Velveteen 

7. Calico 

8. Dotted swiss 



Percentage of 
Pupils Falling 


Score Value 


64 


57 


40 

4 
60 


45 
16 

34 


3* 
18 


11 
32 


IS 


29 


21 


34 



Here one is asked to underline one of four or more words. The 
element of \ chance or guessing is very slight. In history, uses of this 
methodThave already been proposed in the design of information tests. 
For'example, the first exercise in the Harlan's Tests of Information in 
American History consists of the following: 

At the right of the page are the names of some men mentioned in American 
history. Fill in blanks with the names which properly belong there. 

1. America was discovered by Jefferson 

near the close of the fifteenth century. Cornwallis 

2. The name of the man who is supposed to have dis- "William Penn 

covered the Pacific Ocean is Lafayette 

Patrick Henry 

3. The first president of the United States was Columbus 

Benjamin Franklin 

4 Washington 

is the name of a distinguished Frenchman who aided John Cabot 
the colonists in securing their independence. Balboa 

5 • 

*. urrendered to the colonial troops at Yorktown. 

Advantages of the checking method. — If a checking method is used in 
which the chances of obtaining a correct score by guessing are only one in 
four, one in five, or less, this method has certain definite advantages which 
favor its use. First, a scoring scheme can be constructed by which the 
achievements of the pupils can be much more accurately gauged than 
with the completion test. With the straight completion test, a number 
of different answers will be found which will fill the gaps in the sentences 
with varying degrees of correctness. It is very difficult to design a scor- 
ing scheme which will assign proper credit to these various answers. 
With the checking method, however, one can arrange lists of possible 



MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 89 

responses of varying degrees of correctness (as in the Harlan history 
test). Thus the difficulty of the tests may be graded. It has been 
stated earlier that the design of information and reasoning tests did not 
rest upon the same principles. We take the occasion here, therefore, to 
turn the discussion to methods by which reasoning tests may be 
developed. 

PRINCIPLES OF DESIGN OF TESTS 

The reader will note that with each part of the reasoning tests we give 
two facts — one, percentage of pupils failing, the other, the score value. 
For example, in Problem I, page 80, the percentage of pupils failing was 
36, the score value, however, 43. In Problem 5, Series C, the percentage 
of pupils failing was 60, and the score value was 54. Although a study 
of these percentages of pupils failing leads to no final conclusion at the 
present time concerning teaching in home economics, yet the material 
is pertinent to the whole discussion of how to construct reasoning tests 
with such material. 

Fundamental criterion for the design of reasoning tests. — Irrespective 
of training, there will always be gross individual differences in the 
ability of children to reason with various kinds of content. The subject- 
matter of the test must distinguish clearly between children of widely 
varying abilities. To do this it must contain some very easy material 
that all but a very small fraction of the student body can deal with 
successfully; then it must contain some very difficult material which 
only a small percentage of pupils can handle; and finally it must include 
a larger amount of material of moderate degrees of difficulty which 
varying proportions of the rank and file of our children can master. 
That is, the central principle of design of a standardized reasoning test 
is that it shall recognize accurately differences that exist in children's 
abilities. It can do this only when the subject-matter is correspond- 
ingly differentiated. 

Basic assumption: difficulty determined by the proportion of pupils 
unable to perform the various tasks. — The discussion of the central prin- 
ciple of design leads naturally to a second question, namely, how to 
determine the difficulty of the material to go into the test. Two basic 
methods have been followed by those working in this field. One has 
been that of asking specialists — generally teachers of a given subject — 
to estimate the degree of difficulty. This has been commonly referred 
to as the teacher-judgment method. In some fields of learning it has been 
shown that this method is thoroughly inadequate (for example, in 
arithmetic and mathematics). In other fields, such as handwriting, 



90 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

drawing, composition, etc., it has been found to be the only feasible 
method. 

The method which has been found to be of most use in fields like 
home economics, however, has been that of assuming that mental tasks 
are difficult in proportion to the percentage of children unable to per- 
form them. Hence the term "proportion-of-pupils-f ailing" method of 
designing tests. 

Reasoning tests arranged in order of increasing difficulty. — In order to 
set the material before the student in the proper fashion so that the 
proportion of pupils who are unable to perform set tasks shall be deter- 
mined, it is necessary to arrange the test material in exact order of 
increasing difficulty. The easiest task should be set first; the next 
hardest, second; and the most difficult should come last — thus forming 
what is called, variously, a "difficulty" test, a "development" test, or a 
"power" test. The ability of the pupil in such a test is shown by the 
scores on the different parts of the test which he has been able to do. 
If the test is refined enough, his ability can be measured by the score 
which is assigned to the most difficult part of the test which he can 
manage. 

Need for knowing or assuming the shape of the distribution of scholastic 
ability. — It is not enough, however, to be able to determine the 
proportion of pupils failing on the different kinds of subject-matter. 
This is only the first step in determining the relative scores that should 
be assigned to the parts of the test. Difficulties are not directly propor- 
tional to the percentage of pupils failing in the various tasks. This was 
the error that some of our workers made in the early years of the stan- 
dardized-test movement. 

An example will make the point clear. Suppose three reasoning 
questions had been answered by 1,000 pupils. Eighty per cent of the 
pupils failed Question A; 40 per cent, Question B; 20 per cent Question 
C. Let us locate these questions graphically on a horizontal line which 
can be thought of as representing a scale of difficulty as in Figure 17. 



o IOO 

Fig. 17. — A scale of difficulty or value for the various parts of a test. Three 
questions are to be located on this scale so that the distance of the location of 
each question from will indicate the relative "difficulty" or value of the question. 
We use "proportion of pupils failing" and a distribution curve of pupils' abilities. 
See Fig. 18. 

Question A can be considered twice as difficult as Question B and 
four times as difficult as Question C only when the shape of the distribution 



MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 



91 



of children's abilities is rectangular. The form or shape of a curve of 
distribution of pupils' abilities is very important. In plotting one, a 
point on the horizontal base line always represents the value or score 
assigned to a certain task. The height of the vertical line erected at 
any point on the horizontal, or the distance from the base line to the 
curve, always represents the number of pupils who have shown the given 
amount of attainment. Hence, when the figure is rectangular, it means 
that the number of superior children equals the number who are inferior. 
Figure 18 illustrates graphically what the situation would be. Remem- 
ber that the area of each little rectangle (or for that matter the base of 





»/*• v <* 



-»«» 



t#fo« •/• a 



"J 

W I 

t 



1 



:s 









-v+0 



"i!7 



13 



o 



-P-04 



1 



••« 



Fig. 18. — An illustration of a hypothetical rectangular distribution of children's 
abilities. 



each rectangle) represents the number of pupils who are unable to 
handle successfully the various parts of the test. Note that there is 
only one condition under which the length of the base line from o to 
where Question A stands can be four times as great as the length of 
the base line from o to where C .stands, namely, that the curve of chil- 
dren's abilities shall stand at the same height all the way along. 

The distribution of children's ability is not rectangular in shape. — It is 
clear, even to the layman, that there are not just as many geniuses in 
the world as there are average children. We know perfectly well that 
mediocrity predominates all about us and that exceptional children, 
either subnormal or accelerated, are met in far smaller proportions. 
During the past three generations this fact, common to individual 
experience, has been set out clearly by means of careful measurement. 
Many studies have been made since the beginning of the science of 
anthropology eighty years ago. Measurements of stature, circumfer- 
ence of the head, cephalic index, length of various bones and parts of 



Q2 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



the body, and other physical measurements have been compiled. 
Almost always the same shaped distribution results. Figures 19 to 21 
illustrate the essential principles that have been developed. 

The shape of the distribution of human abilities accords with the so-catted 
"normal probability curve." — As investigators noted the frequency with 



r 



nr 



Number 
of Men 



1200 
000 
600 
300 



■ 



am 



1 
& 

"5 

i 

8 




* "I 



JiH 



2*2* 



1*04 



J2&T 



5a. 



58 60 6a 64 66 68 70 7» 74 76 78 5 *S 25 35 45 55 6s 75 85 95 105 us its 



Height of men 

How the sUture of 8,585 men 
distributed (Yule). 



Speed in writing 

How the handwriting ability of 25,387 Cleveland pupils 
distributed (Cleveland Survey). 

Number 
of Pupils 



J 



50 






















«5 
























20 


















. 






























*i 








J 
















10 

5 










f 
















MM 


*-* 


"I 

















Amounts of intelligence 

How the intelligence of 004 
children distributed (Terman) 



2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ix ts 13 

Number of problems solved 
How ability to solve algebra problems distributed 



Fig. 19. — Illustrations of the shape of the distribution of human traits 



which distributions of the same general shape recurred, they developed 
typical mathematical curves which would generalize as "law" the 
scattered measurements which had been compiled. Anthropological 
measurements which have been graphed in Figures 19 to 21 represent 
merely the distribution of the traits of a few individuals. From the 
standpoint of "law," one is concerned rather with the theoretical 



MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 



93 



distribution which these frequency curves tend to resemble as larger and 
larger numbers of cases are collected. Mathematicians have developed 
a few frequency curves which represent various kinds of laws of distri- 
bution. One of these, the one portrayed in Figure 22, is called the 




Inferior 

x-5% 



Inferior 
16. a% 



Avenge 
63.3% 



Superior Very 
15.5% Superior 
3.6% 



Flo. 20. — The distribution of the intelligence of 1,458 children (Terman) 




Gnukt 

Fig. 21. — Percentage of 1,896 ten-year-old boys located in each grade, Salt Lake 
City Schools, May, 1015 (Terman, 1010). 

"normal probability curve" (sometimes styled the "normal frequency 
surface," or the "LaPlace-Gaussian curve," or the "curve of error"). 
It has been found that many anthropometrical measurements fit this 
curve with considerable precision. 



94 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

So much for the distribution of physical traits. In recent years 
many mental measurements have been made. Distributions of the 
same general shape commonly recur — distributions which reveal many 
"average" measurements and few exceptional ones. Furthermore, 
they shade off gradually on either side of the average. The curve is 
very flat, indeed, at the extremes, showing that there are very few 
individuals in which the trait is present or absent to an exceptional 
degree. The detail of these various measurements need not be quoted. 

These data which refer to the shape of the distribution of human 
traits are given in order to convince home economics workers that 
achievements on sound tests must distribute somewhat in accordance 




Fig. 22. — A normal probability curve illustrating the theoretical shape of the 
distribution of pupils' abilities. 

with a " normal " distribution. There is no argument for great precision 
in the shape of this distribution of actual measurements. A need is 
felt, however, for the careful use of a distribution curve which has been 
shown to agree approximately with the general way in which human 
traits are differentiated. 

APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES OF DESIGN TO REASONING TESTS IN 

HOME ECONOMICS 

How to use the normal curve in assigning values to the parts of a test. — 
This technical discussion of the distribution of human traits can now 
be applied to the problem of assigning values to the parts of a reasoning 
test in home economics. Refer to Figure 18 and the discussion of the 
fallacy of a rectangular distribution. The importance of avoiding 



MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 



95 



that fallacy should now be apparent. Question A is not four times as 
hard as Question C, nor twice as hard as Question B. How can one 
determine the relative values to give these questions? The answer is 
direct: by making the fundamental assumption that reasoning ability 
with home economics content distributes, closely enough for practical 
purposes, in accordance with the normal probability curve. This is 
the second assumption, and must be combined with the earlier one, 
namely, that scores on the parts of the test depend upon the percentage 
of pupils unable to do the work. By the use of these two assumptions 
the technique becomes complete. The score that should be assigned to 




y*A/a o-r a 



tPO 



ri*/Jd •/ 



-***<.* 



Fig. 23. — An illustration of a more accurate scoring of questions A, B, and 
C, the scores having been located on the assumption that pupils' abilities fit the 
normal curve. 

Question A (based on certain technical statistical assumptions that 
need not be discussed here) is 66.4; that for B, 45.3; and that for C, 

33.6. 

Why are these scores more correct than any others ? — The answer is 
found from a study of the distribution curve. Figure 23 explains the 
situation. The aim is to locate each question at a given point on 
the scale of difficulty. The value of the question, therefore, will be the 
distance that this point is from the zero point at the left. Thus Ques- 
tion A is 66.4 units from the zero point because between the zero point 
and a vertical line erected at that point is included 80 per cent of the 
area of the whole curve. (The area of the curve represents the pupils 



96 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

in the group.) Eighty per cent of the area corresponds to the 80 per 
cent of the pupils who failed. Similarly Question C has a score of 33 .6 
instead of 20, because one has to go out on the base line 33 units in 
order to include 20 per cent of the area of the curve. Statements like 
this call attention strikingly to the important characteristic of flatness 
of the normal probability curve near the extremes. Thus we see that 
Question A can be regarded as only about twice as difficult as Question C 
instead of four times; that is, 66.4 contrasted with 33.6, instead of 
80 per cent contrasted with 20 per cent. 1 

Distribution of results of test scores in Series A , B, and C. — Figure 24 
shows graphically the distribution of scores which were made by 148 
pupils in Series A, 146 pupils in Series B, and 138 pupils in Series C. It 
shows that even in this preliminary design of a reasoning test questions 
have been graduated in difficulty so as to differentiate children of vary- 
ing abilities. The reader should not conclude from this that mere 
rough accordance of the distribution of scores with the general shape of 
the theoretical curve is a criterion for evaluating the validity of the 
questions themselves. Whether we ought to include certain questions 
in such a test will depend upon the application of the social criterion 
rather than the mere utilization of psychological ones. It is apparent, 
however, that we have in this technique a procedure by which tests 
can be designed which will discriminate very clearly, indeed, between 
the differing abilities of the children in our classes. 

ASSIGNING SCORES TO THE TARTS OF AN INFORMATION TEST 

The practice has been adopted recently of scoring the parts of an 
information test (which is either of the completion or checking type) 
by the same method as that described in the section on reasoning tests. 

It is possible, of course, to give a great many fact questions to large 
numbers of pupils, to score the percentage of failure on each question, 
and to locate each question on the base line of the normal probability 
curve, thus assigning it a "score." It will be impossible, however, to 
conclude whether this score is a fair measure of the "difficulty" of the 
question or of teaching emphasis. It appears to us that this involves 
a fallacy which we should avoid in the design of information tests. 

1 The values which correspond to percentages of pupils failing can be found in 
statistical Tables V and VI in H. O. Rugg's Statistical Methods Applied to Education. 
In chapters vii and viii of that book explanations are given of the way in which such 
tables are constructed and of the theoretical development of the normal probability 
curve itself. 



MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 



97 



After minimum essentials shall have been established, the content 
of information tests which are used at the close of the year should 



II 

llllllllllllllllllll 

illillllliiiillllliniliiill 

1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 f 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 

II 



minimi 
iiiimmi 
minimi 
minimi 
milium 



n 

imiiiimmii 

iiimiiiiiimmiimmimi 

in H in n nuiiiiiii t him i in in ii ii 1 1 ii ii ii i 

iiimiiiiimiiiiiiiimim 

niiiiii 
in 
n 



iiiiiiiiiiui 

1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 M M I M I 

llllllllllllllllllllllll 

iiiiiiiiiiui 



09-os 



6-w-o* 



6*6?-o? 



6'6s-oc 



6 '61-01 



6*i -1 



S 

I 
i 



I 



00 

Jo 



.9 



ofi-oti 
6611-011 J! 
6' 601-OOI .S 

1 



6'66 -06 



6'6g og J 

664 -oi -g. 
'I 

6*69 -09 j 
6' 6* -ofr ° 



o* 001-06 

6'6g -og •? 

6-6Z -o* -S 

669-00 I 



6-6^ -o* -a 

•I 

00 
6 6f -of £ 



6 '6c -or 
6'6i -oz 






1 



1 1 



i 



I 
I 



•» 
.* 



•s 

8 
2 

1 

t: 

1 



a 

o 

.s 

•f 
IT 



*> O 



1 

< 

1 

.9 

I 

1 



^ 
j 



r.a 



.a 
§ 



2 



6'6S -oS J jj "g 



? '5 



(9 



I 
I 



include only such minimum essentials, each fact of which should be 
learned by every pupil in the class. Therefore, instead of having a 



98 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

graduated scale in which one question is answered by 5 per cent, another 
by 20 per cent, another by 30, 40, etc., until finally we include questions 
answered by nearly all of the pupils correctly, it appears to us that this 
minimum list of facts should be learned 96 or 97 per cent correct. 
The situation is directly analogous to that in spelling. Scales are 
already available for the measurement of spelling ability. One's 
spelling ability is measured by the percentage of words out of a given 
list which he can spell correctly. Again we insist that the correct pro- 
cedure would be to insist upon 100 per cent efficiency for each word in a 
foundation list. 

Value of scoring tentative information tests. — It is conceivable that 
some gain will accrue from the use of test questions which are scored 
in this preliminary stage of our movement. With each part of the 
exercises which are reported from pages 78 to 88, the "percentage of 
pupils failing" is stated. Doubtless it will be stimulating to teachers 
to note the variability in the percentages of failure on the various kinds 
of questions. Attention is called to the fundamental importance of 
recognizing that this refers principally to a matter of teaching emphasis. 
We should be very critical, indeed, of our instruction if, on topics that 
can be agreed upon by groups of home economics teachers, 50 per cent, 
70 per cent, or 80 per cent of the pupils failed to handle the material 
successfully immediately at the end of the year's instruction. Such 
results are revealed by a study of the exercises reported. As indicated 
in earlier sections of this chapter, one cannot conclude definitely con- 
cerning the causes of failure in these particular cases. Such results 
may be due to a lack of proper distribution of teaching emphasis. Cer- 
tainly there is evidence to conclude that a disproportionate emphasis is 
placed on information and technique rather than on the formation of 
judgment. If this be true, then the unusual percentages of failure on 
some of those basic topics represented by these exercises is all the more 
alarming. The important questions of how the teacher distributes her 
time and emphasis should be canvassed very carefully by adminis- 
trative officers. 

WHAT STANDARDIZED TESTS WILL DO FOR HOME ECONOMICS 

Before leaving this discussion, however, let us remind the reader 
that the design of tests will provide a twofold stimulus for the improve- 
ment of the home economics situation. First, they will improve teaching 
by clear definition of instructional goals. That matter has already been 
referred to. Secondly, those tests that deal primarily with information 



MEASURING THE RESULTS OF TEACHING 99 

and with technique will focus attention upon the fundamental ques- 
tion of establishing minimum essentials in the course of study. We 
are convinced that no matter is more urgently demanding the attention 
of home economics workers at the present time than that of minimum 
essentials. The most pressing need is to organize systematic investi- 
gations and to conduct social studies of homes and communities by 
which a clear statement can be made of the socially worth-while facts 
that should form the nucleus of our curriculum. The most powerful 
instrument to expedite this movement is the construction and wide- 
spread dissemination of information tests in home economics. 



CHAPTER VHI 
SCALES FOR MEASURING SKILL IN MACHINE SEWING 

• 

We have illustrated how the measuring movement can be carried 
out in home economics by the design of reasoning tests and tests for 
the acquisition of socially valuable information. These come first 
because we wish to emphasize their greater importance. Especially 
will the widespread use of tests for "judgment" stimulate a greater 
attention to generalizing abilities. 

The development of motor skill is also one of the established goals 
of instruction. We need scales to measure the degree to which our 
pupils have mastered certain important skills. The most obvious 
phases of the work with which to begin are types of sewing. 

During the past year two 1 of the present writers have experimented 
with the development of measuring scales for machine sewing. These 
have to do with some of the simplest processes used in garment con- 
struction. Reproductions of the scales are found in Plates I-XEL The 
scales reported in this monograph are for two constructive processes 
which make their appearance early in sewing classes and are in con- 
stant use, namely, French seams and hems on a straight edge. The 
series is capable of extension until it includes all the constructive pro- 
cesses commonly used. 

Criteria for designing scales. — In working out the kind of scale which 
is to be used as the measuring instrument for these tests several points 
were kept in mind: (i) to be most useful the scale must be not merely 
one which would grade work by means of an impression in regard to 
its general excellence, but one which would analyze the factors which 
contribute to that general excellence; (2) the scale must be an adequate 
measuring device, but it must also be sufficiently simple to promote 
economy of time and effort in its use (over-refinement in detail would 
defeat its purpose); (3) as the real object of tests is not merely to dis- 
cover defects but also to assist in correcting them, the scale must be 
graphic in form and must contain sufficient explanatory material to 
make it useful as a corrective device in the hands of pupils. These 
three considerations were the factors which controlled the form of the 

1 Florence Williams and Clara B. Rnapp. 

100 



SCALES FOR MEASURING SKILL IN MACHINE SEWING IOI 

scale and, consequently, influenced the treatment of the material which 
was collected. 

What is done in the tests. — In these tests each pupil is asked to make 
a French seam or a hem, as the case may be, under standardized 
conditions, in a given length of time, on material furnished by the 
persons who are giving the test. Two of the tests follow. 

TEST B. MAKING A FRENCH SEAM 

i. Material. — Cotton material with a distinct difference between the 

right and the wrong sides. Two pieces, 10X3 inches. 
2. Instructions. — 

a) Have each pupil thread her machine with white thread and 

test the stitching. The pupil is to judge for herself the 
length of the stitch and the tension before beginning the test. 

b) Distribute material to each pupil: two pieces of cloth, four pins, 

printed directions and labels. 

c) Have each pupil fill out the label. 

d) Give the following directions: 

Join these two pieces of material by means of a French seam along the 
longer edge, using any method which you think best to secure a good result. 
Use the presser-foot as a guide for the width of the finished seam. Fasten 
the threads at both ends of the stitching by tying. Begin when I say, " Begin," 
and stop when I say, "Stop." Paste label on the inside of the finished work. 
Time allowed — 10 minutes. 

To each pupil were given printed directions similar to (<f) under Instruc- 
tions and the label mentioned in (c) asked her to record the following items: 

Date 

Town 

School 

Grade 

Age 

Length of previous instruction in machine sewing 
(1 term, 2 terms, etc.). 

Number of times you have used a sewing machine 
(if very few). 



TEST C. HEM ON A STRAIGHT EDGE 

1. Material. — Rectangular piece of cotton material with a distinct differ- 

ence between the right and the wrong sides — 10X4 inches. 

2. Instructions. — 

a) Same as in Test B. 

b) Distribute materials — one piece of cloth, six pins, blank labels. 

c) Same as in Test B. 

d) Give the following directions: 



102 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

On one of the long edges of this piece of cloth make a hem one inch wide 
when finished. Use any method which you think best to secure a good result. 
Finish each end of the stitching by retracing (the teacher may use any term 
with which the class is familiar). Stitch as close as possible to the edge of 
the finished hem — not more than A of an inch from the edge. Begin when I 
say, "Begin," and stop when I say, "Stop." Paste label on work in such a 
way that it does not cover any part of the hem. 

Time allowed — 10 minutes. 

In this test printed directions and labels were given to pupils. The 
time allowance had been determined experimentally in the first three 
classes in which the tests were tried. 

Where the preliminary tests were given as a preliminary study the 
tests described above were given in the following schools: Elementary 
School of the School of Education, University of Chicago; Burns School, 
Chicago; Farragut School, Chicago; Myra Bradwell School, Chicago; 
Andrew Jackson School, Chicago; D. J. Corkery School, Chicago; Field 
Grammar School, Leominister, Massachusetts; Phillips Street School, 
Fulton, New York; Central School, Laporte, Indiana; Laporte High 
School, Laporte, Indiana; Haish School, De Kalb, Illinois; Ellwood 
School, De Kalb, Illinois. 

Two hundred and twenty samples of Test B were received and 
two hundred and thirty-five of Test C. These represented Grades VI, 
VII, and VIII. 

ANALYSIS OF FIVE FACTORS WHICH CONTRIBUTE TO EXCELLENCE IN THE 

SEWING PRODUCT 

After a number of sample tests had been returned the task of analyz- 
ing the general excellence of a given result into the five factors which 
contribute to that result was undertaken. 

Tension and length of stitch. — The factors which are most easily 
distinguished and defined are first, tension, and second, length of stitch. 
The tension may be exactly right, it may be so loose or so tight as to 
destroy the usefulness of the seam where it appears, or it may be so 
adjusted that its appearance is not all that could be desired, and yet 
its usefulness is not seriously impaired. The length of stitch may be 
too long or too short, it may be fairly good or it may be very good. 

Spacing. — A third factor which contributes to general excellence is 
the distance and the uniformity of the distance between the line of 
stitching and the line which it should follow; this includes both the 
straightness of the line of stitching itself and the space between the 



SCALES FOR MEASURING SKILL IN MACHINE SEWING 103 

line of stitching and the edge which it should follow or to which it should 
lie parallel. Spacing was finally adopted as a sufficiently descriptive 
term for this factor. 

Constructive elements. — A fourth factor includes such points as 
making a hem or seam on the proper side of the material, trimming a 
French seam in such a way that no raw edges will appear on the right 
side of the finished seam, making the edges at the turn of a French seam 
exactly even, and turning a hem to a uniform specified width. These 
points are included under the term, "constructive elements." 

Neatness. — A fifth factor has been called "neatness." It includes 
such points as beginning stitching properly so that the thread does not 
become knotted, finishing stitching at the ends in the way prescribed 
in the directions, and being careful to make the first row of stitching 
properly so that a second row will not have to be added in an effort 
to correct it. 

SCORING AND GRADING THE WORK 

How the specimens were scored. — After all the samples had been collected 
they were numbered and submitted in turn to each of six competent 
judges, of similar training, to be ranked in the following fashion. Each 
sample was ranked "good," "medium," or "poor," with reference to 
each of the five factors considered separately. For example, Judge X 
ranked Sample 117 of Test B as poor in spacing, good in tension, good 
in length of stitch, poor in neatness, and medium in constructive ele- 
ments. Each judge estimated only one factor at a single sitting; that 
is she divided all the samples into three piles representing the three 
qualities with reference to spacing alone; then this ranking was recorded; 
at another time she divided them with reference to tension alone, and 
that ranking was recorded; so on until the rankings of all the judges 
had been recorded in tabular form. 

The tabulations were then examined for the purpose of discovering 
which samples had been ranked as of the same quality with reference 
to a given factor by every one of the judges. For example, in Test B, 
Sample 18 was ranked by all the judges as poor in constructive elements; 
Sample 28 was ranked as good in constructive elements by all the 
judges; Sample 47 was ranked medium by all the judges in constructive 
elements; and so on throughout the list of the four remaining factors: 
tension, length of stitch, neatness, and spacing. It was found that the 
average of absolute agreement by all the judges was 11. 3 per cent. 
Table XXVII shows the percentages of agreements of judges. 



104 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

Those samples that were ranked by each one of the judges as similar 
in quality with reference to a given factor were then considered typical 
examples of that quality for that factor. From these typical examples, 
specimens were chosen to represent a given quality, and these specimens 
were photographed with as much attention to detail as would bring out 
the typical defects or excellences most clearly. Explanations have been 
added to the printed plates to bring out special points more definitely. 

TABLE XXVn 
Percentages of Agreements of Judges on Five Factors 

Tension 8.5 percent 

Length of stitch 4. 15 per cent 

Spacing 16. 7s per cent 

Constructive elements 11. 5 per cent 

Neatness 15. 75 per cent 

Average 11. 3 per cent 

How to mark pupils 9 work with the scale. — Grading a piece of work by 
this scale is simple and takes little time. One merely compares the piece 
of work that is to be graded with the printed scale and ranks it aa good, 
poor, or medium in length of stitch, tension, neatness, constructive 
elements, and spacing, according to that quality on the printed scale 
which it most closely resembles in each of those factors. For example, 
the bit of work to be graded may be a French seam in a middy blouse. 
The instructor may find that according to the scale it has qualities that 
make it fall in the following grades : Tension, " good " ; length of stitch, 
"good"; neatness, "poor"; spacing, "medium"; constructive ele- 
ments, "medium." 

In order to facilitate the process of marking a piece of work, it is 
necessary to assign numerical values to the qualities "good," "poor," and 
' 'medium. ' ' By the use of numbers one can easily find a mark for general 
merit more easily than by the use of the terms "good," "poor," and 
"medium." It was assumed that 1, 3, and 5 would approximate the 
true values of the different qualities on the scale. (TTiis assumption 
was carefully discussed from the standpoint of statistical validity. 
Various other weighting schemes gave no better promise of effective 
use than this.) Thus, when poor equals 1, medium equals 3, and good 
equals 5, it is simple to find a. value for general merit. Table XXVTII 
shows how a mark for general excellence may be assigned to a piece of 
work. 



SCALES FOR MEASURING SKILL IN MACHINE SEWING 105 

Scores have been made practical by translating into school marks. — To 
facilitate further the use of the scale, the possible scores have been trans- 
lated into school marks and printed on the sheet with the scale. It was 
decided by the judges, after study and statistical manipulation, that 
the passing mark should be i£. To make this the passing mark will fail 

TABLE XXVIII 
A Mark or General Excellence fox a Piece or Work 

Tension 1 

Length of stitch 5 

Spacing 1 

Constructive elements 5 

Neatness 3 

IS 
Average 3 

5 . 28 per cent of the pupils. If the reader is interested in the statistical 
procedure, he will find next a description of the method. All the 
possible scores were translated into the school marks most commonly 
used. The table printed on the sheet with the scale itself is self- 
explanatory as far as its use is concerned. 

STATISTICAL METHODS OF CONSTRUCTING THE SCALES 

It was assumed that ability in making French seams and hems is 
distributed according to the normal probability curve. Therefore, in 
order to check the validity of our method of scoring the samples the 
averages of the judgments were plotted in graphic form so as to com- 
pare them with the theoretical curve. It was found, as indicated by 
Figures 25-29, that the abilities as ranked by the six judges for the 
separate factors do not distribute according to the normal probability 
curve. The theory of the normal probability curve assumes that 
there are a few people of very poor ability. These figures show that if 
the rankings of the judges are to be considered correct, the abilities do 
not all distribute themselves in the same fashion. This may be due to 
one of two things. First, the teaching emphasis may have been such 
that certain factors were emphasized and others neglected. Secondly, 
the standards of the individual judges may have been such that when 
they averaged the six judgments the curve distributed itself in rectangu- 
lar form rather than according to the theory of the normal probability 
curve. It is of interest at this point to note that the majority of the 



io6 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



judges agreed upon 60 per cent of the samples. Table XXIX shows 
how the judgments were agreed. 

TABLE XXIX 

Percentage or Samples on Which Six Out op Six Judges, Five Out of Six Judges, 
and Four Out or Six Judges Exactly Agreed in Scoring 



Agreements 



Tension 

Length of stitch 

Spacing 

Constructive elements. 
Neatness 



6 out of 6 
Judges 



Per Cent 
6.50 

4.15 
16.7S 
II-SO 
15-75 



5 out of 6 
Judges 



Per Cent 
18.9 
12.0 

U.7 
154 
22.1 



4 out of 6 
Judges 



Per Cent 

34- 1 
36.O 

367 
27.6 

25.2 



Total of Agree- 
ments by 
Majority of 
Judges 



PerCent 
59 SO 

52.15 
68.15 

5450 
63.05 



Average of agreements 59-47 



Number of 
Samples 

1 60 



X40 



120 



100 



80 



©o 



40 



20 



Test 



- I 4 I I 



Scores x.otox.90 



2.0 to 2.99 3.0 to 3. oo 

Class intervals of one whole unit 

1 —Poor 3 —Medium 5— Good 



4.0 to 5.0 



Fig. 25. — Distribution of the averages of the six judgments on tension in French 
seams and hems. 



SCALES FOR MEASURING SKILL IN MACHINE SEWING 



107 



The table shows that a majority of judges agreed upon only 52.15 
per cent of the samples in length of stitch as compared to an agreement 



Number of 
Samples 



aoo 



180 



160 



140 



ISO 



zoo 



80 



60 



40 



ao 



Test 
Scores 







■ 












































/ 








/ 

























z.o to x.oo 



2.0 to 2.90 



3.0103.90 



4.010 5.0 



Class intervals of one whole unit 

x -Poor 3 —Medium 5 — Good 



Fig. 26. — Distribution of the averages of the six judgments on the length of 
stitch in the French seams and hems. 



upon 68. 15 per cent in spacing. This would indicate that less reliabil- 
ity can be placed upon the judgments in length of stitch than upon those 
in spacing. In the interpretation of the curve made by the judgments 



io8 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



on the length of stitch there is less reliability on its truth, although it 
approaches the probability curve in shape. On the other hand, the 
curve made by the judgments for spacing has a much larger agreement 
of judges on samples, yet does not approach the normal probability 



Number oi 
Samples 




z.o to i .00 



4.0 to 5.0 



2.0 to 2.09 30 to 3.00 

Class intervals of one whole unit 
1 -Poor 3 -Medium 5 -Good 

Fig. 27.— Distribution of the averages of the six judgments on spacing in French 
seams and hems. 

curve in shape. It shows a distinctly upward slant at the left and down- 
ward at the right. This may be interpreted to mean that the teaching 
had not sufficiently emphasized this factor as an element in teaching 
pupils to make French seams and hems. Or it may mean that spacing 
is of greater difficulty to the learner than length of stitch or tension. 



SCALES FOR MEASURING SKILL IN MACHINE SEWING 109 



No attempt has been made in this investigation to determine the relative 
difficulty of the different factors that contribute to the making of good 
seams and hems. The results of such an investigation would without 
doubt be a great aid in teaching sewing. The curve made by the judg- 
ments on neatness also shows a tendency to rise at the left and drop 
at the right. This can be interpreted in the same way. 

Number of 
Samples 

140 



1 30 



100 



80 



60 



20 



Test 
Scores 






x.oto 1. 00 



4.0 to 5.0 



a.otoa.oo 30 to 3.00 

Class intervals of one whole unit 
1 "Poor 3 -Medium 5 

Fig. 28. — Distribution of the averages of the six judgments on constructive ele- 
ments in French seams and hems. 



Good 



As long as all of the factors judged are exclusive of one another and 
include everything that contributes to a good piece of work, the average 
of these judgments on the different factors should give the judgment 
for general merit. In Figure 30 a curve is plotted that is made from 
the data obtained by taking the average of the average judgments on 
each factor. For example, Sample 219 was ranked by six judges five 
times, that is, for each of five factors. The average of the six judgments 



no 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



for spacing was 2, the average for constructive elements was 3, the 
average for neatness was 2%, the average for length of stitch was 4$, the 
average for tension was if. Then the average of the averages will give 
the value for general merit, or 2.73. In this manner the average was 
found for every sample, and a curve was plotted, as shown in Figure 30. 

Number of 
Samples 
160 



140 



xao 



100 



80 



60 



40 



20 



Test 
Scores 

































\ 








\ 










* 

















x.o to 1. 00 



3.0 to 3.00 



3.OIO3.OO 



4.0 to 5.0 



Class intervals of one whole unit 
i— Poor 3 -Medium 5 -Good 



Fig. 29. — Distribution of the averages of the six judgments on neatness in French 
seams and hems. 



As stated above, the assumption was made that ability in machine- 
made French seams and in hems distributes according to the law of the 
normal probability curve. To test the degree to which our scoring 
scheme properly differentiates abilities, a normal probability curve was 
superimposed on the curve plotted from the values of the averages. It 
seems that, considering the fact that there are only 455 cases used, the 
curve follows rather closely the line of the normal probability curve. 



SCALES FOR MEASURING SKILL IN MACHINE SEWING III 
TRANSMUTATION OF SCORES INTO SCHOOL MARKS 

Every possible score from the use of the scale has been translated 
into each of three typical marking schemes — that is, with the passing 
mark at 65, at 70, and at 75, respectively. The passing score on the 
scale was put at 1$. This fails 5.28 per cent of the cases. As shown 













f 


^ 


f 


+ 


-ff- 


~i 






11 








i 


j 


/ 


/ 










--' 


s> 













Fig. 30. — The normal probability curve superimposed upon the curve made by 
the distribution of the averages of the judgments on the French seams and hems. 



inFigure3i,theintervalsbetween65and 100, 70 and 100, and 75 and 100 
were divided to correspond to the intervals on the base line of the curve 
plotted in terms of the scores secured by the judgments on the samples. 
A table giving the values in school marks for these scores is printed on 
the sheet with the photograph of the scale. How the translation into 
school marks was made is also indicated in Figure 31. 



112 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



WHAT CAN BE GAINED BY THE USE OF SUCH A SCALE? 

The most impqrtant question which arises in connection with such 
a measuring device as the one just described is, "What effect will it 
have on the work of teacher and of pupil ? " To state in advance just 
what that effect will be is impossible, but, judging by the results which 
have followed the use of similar devices in other fields, we may without 
hesitation forecast a few possibilities. 

First, it leads to the definite setting of standards of attainment. — In the 
first place, such a device ought to help teachers to set up certain standards 



Test 
Score i 



School 
Marks 




Pawing Mark 



I* 


*i 


* 




6 .s 


69 


* 




1° 


74 


* 




75 


78 



73.5 



3 

78 
81 



3i 

82 

8S 
87 



3l 

86 

89 



91 



93 



4i 

06 
96 



IOO 



IOO 



77 

81 84 87 90 93 97 xoo 

Fig. 31. — An illustration showing what school mark should be assigned to a 
particular sample which was given a specific score by the use of the scale when 
the passing mark was set at ij on the scoring scheme. 

of achievement in technique, the common interpretation of which will 
not be confined to one teacher or one school, or one system, but which 
will mean the same thing to everyone who uses the scale. There is at 
present no adequate terminology. A mark of 80 or of B — , perhaps, 
has a fairly definite meaning to the teacher who gives it, but its inter- 
pretation by another teacher may be quite different, as each teacher's 
scale of values is an individual matter and exists only in her inner 
consciousness. It is subjective not objective. On the contrary, 
similar marks on a definite scale to which everyone has access will be 
capable of common interpretation by all parties concerned. With the 



SCALES FOR MEASURING SKILL IN MACHINE SEWING 1 13 

establishment of a commonly understood terminology of this sort, 
definite standards of achievement for the various grades can be set up. 
This will have to be done by the examination of many samples and by 
the calculating of averages and medians in order to be sure that the 
standards are set neither too high nor too low. After such steps have 
been taken it will be legitimate to require that each pupil in a given 
grade show at least such attainment in technique as is indicated by a 
certain rank on the scale. If such requirements are enforced and if 
teachers can know what to expect in technique at the beginning of each 
new grade, time and energy now wasted in repetition of effort may be 
more profitably expended in the development of problem-solving ability. 

Secondly, it gives the inexperienced teacher a definite guide. — Especially 
to the inexperienced teacher will such a scale, when standardized, prove 
helpful. Often she feels quite at a loss to know what degree of excel- 
lence in technique she has a right to expect from pupils in a certain 
grade. If she can know that the average mark attained by pupils of 
that grade considered in large numbers is 65 or 75 or 85 on a standardized 
scale which she has in her hands, she will then have a definite guide for 
her judgments. 

Thirdly, it makes teachers self-critical. — Again, the use of such a scale 
will have a tendency to make teachers self-critical in a healthful fashion. 
A common scale of this sort may be used as a measuring stick for the 
work of classes of various grades in all parts of the country. The 
results from various schools may then be compared. If a teacher dis- 
covers that her pupils are not ranking up to the general average of 
pupils of the same grade, it is more than likely that she will begin to 
wonder why and will set herself to the solution of the problem with 
which she is confronted. She will examine her methods, try to discover 
what the particular weaknesses in her teaching are, what points she is 
not emphasizing sufficiently, and, in short, why she does not secure 
better results. 

On the other hand, if the work of a particular school or school system 
ranks especially high, will it not be to the advantage of all teachers of 
the subject to have someone make a study of the methods employed 
in that school or system so that others may profit by their experience ? 

Fourthly ', it makes possible comparison of schools and classes and 
pupils which leads to healthful emulation. — The spirit of emulation will 
act also as a spur to pupils. They are always interested in comparative 
scores and enjoy making a creditable showing as individuals or as a 
class. In one school where the tests were recently given and ranked 



114 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

by a tentative scoring scheme, the pupils displayed a keen interest in 
their own scores and in the average and the median of the class. The 
tests seemed to make their work assume in their eyes an importance 
akin to that of other school subjects in which they are frequently tested. 
Fifthly, it portrays dearly types of pupils' difficulties.— The analytical 
character of the scale and its graphic form make possible its use as a 
corrective device in the hands of the pupils. Each difficulty which 
the pupil is likely to encounter is carefully pictured and explained so 
that she can see just what it is that makes her work poor or medium 
or good in quality. By constant reference to such pictures the pupil 
will be led to correct her own mistakes in an intelligent fashion, thus 
relieving the teacher from constant emphasis on technique. 



CHAPTER DC 

A PROGRAM FOR THE SCIENTIFIC STUDY OF HOME 

ECONOMICS EDUCATION 

The situation that confronts those who are active in home economics 
education is very large, with opportunity for constructive development. 
The most important statements that have been made concerning home 
economics are those that refer to its unformulated condition. Con- 
struction — not reconstruction — is the keynote. The home economics 
course is a newcomer in the public schools. Its content and its emphasis 
are not routinized. There is no crust of teaching tradition to break 
through. There is no established sequence. Neither is there even 
tentative agreement that certain types of subject-matter are to be 
regarded as inviolate, as they are in the established classical and mathe- 
matical subjects. 

Let us set about the scientific building of a new movement in home 
economics. To do so, an important first step is the formulation of a 
definite program of development. Without a program our efforts will 
be unco-ordinated and will not result in definite and helpful advances. 
Therefore, we conclude this evaluation of current practices in public- 
school home economics by suggestions for future work. 

A SUGGESTED PROGRAM 

The most urgent need is vigorous discussion of the present situation. 
In this report five pressing needs have been established. They deal 
with (i) the need for a real curriculum which will reveal sequence of 
subjects and topics and gradation of material; (2) the urgent need for 
a thorough change in teaching emphasis; (3) a statement of aims or 
objectives phrased in terms of pupils' experiences and abilities; (4) a 
need of testing results in teaching; and (5) the need for a complete 
program for curriculum-making and teaching procedure. 

In the discriminating debate concerning the vital issues in the field, 
home economics educational associations should lead. There are 
national associations through the machinery of which it should be 
feasible to set in motion a type of investigation and discussion which 
will bring permanent results at an early date: the American Home 
Economics Association and the National Education Association. In 

115 



Ii6 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

addition to these, such regional associations as the Central Association 
of Science and Mathematics Teachers and other like groups which are 
active in eastern, southern, and western sections of the country should 
co-operate — also the various university high-school conferences, such 
as the University of Pennsylvania "School Men's Week," the Spring 
Conference between the University of Chicago and Associated Secondary 
Schools, and the University of Illinois High-School Conference. These 
are illustrations of types of associations whose activities are restricted 
to local territory, but in which leadership of the most advanced types is 
already at hand. 

TYPES OF PROCEDURE BY WHICH CHANGES IN THE CURRICULUM 

CAN BE BROUGHT ABOUT 

Changes in the curriculum can best be brought about by: 
i. Evaluating textbooks on definite criteria. 

2. Summarizing intelligent judgments concerning practice in home 
economics. 

3. Carrying on scientific studies of curriculum-making and teaching. 

New textbooks in home economics should be evaluated on the basis of defi- 
nite criteria. — Great gains will come to the teaching of our subject if we are 
constructively critical of each new textbook offered for use in the public 
schools. Each book should be weighed against the two principles of 
social worth and thinking value which we suggested in chapter iv for 
the selection of subject-matter. Is the material in textbooks socially 
worth while ? Can it be justified from the point of view of its use in the 
satisfaction either of the child's needs in the home or his future adult 
needs? Is the subject-matter presented in the textbook organized in 
such a way as to lead to genuine thinking ? Does the textbook emphasize 
training in making intelligent decisions or does it give a routine emphasis 
upon myriad facts ? 

Sanction of teaching bodies needed. — The second method by which 
changes in the curriculum can be effected is through the medium of teach- 
ers' associations rather than through committee reports. There is a very 
real reason for this. Committee procedure has consisted largely in the 
formulation of the judgments of a few individuals of the committee 
rather than a consensus of many expert opinions. Therefore, the only 
criterion against which proposed curriculum stuff has been measured has 
been found in their individual experiences. A new type of committee 
procedure is necessary. Findings, to have definite effect upon the pub- 
lic-school curriculum, must be thoroughly discussed by, and have the 



A PROGRAM FOR SCIENTIFIC STUDY 117 

official sanction of, organized teaching bodies. As a part of the program 
for development, we urge that committees of various associations carry 
on extensive collections of judgments of supervisors and teachers in pub- 
lic-school systems, writers of textbooks, specialists in bureaus, and 
university teachers of courses in home economics. One of our most im- 
portant tasks is the summation of the most intelligent thought of home 
economics people on the basic issues that we have pointed out through- 
out this monograph. 

Scientific procedure of curriculum-making. — Committees should dele- 
gate responsibility for research to collaborating specialists. There is 
ample justification for this suggestion in the results of the activities of 
such committees as the Committee on Minimum Essentials in Elemen- 
tary School Subjects of the National Education Association. We shall 
do well to apply the technique of investigation which this committee 
has worked out. It is unique in the history of curriculum-making for 
the schools of any country. The central feature of the procedure is for 
committees of important associations to delegate to individuals the 
special study of individual research problems. Groups of these 
co-operating specialists meeting and discussing their problems in local 
centers should report stages of progress and findings on the programs of 
various home economics associations. But the essence of the technique 
is the delegation of individual responsibility for carrying on the research. 

The movement for research is already well launched. In various edu- 
cational centers, both in our university and in progressive city school 
systems, individuals and groups are already actively carrying on scientific 
study. The Committee on Educational Research of the American Home 
Economics Association has research under way which will be reported 
at the annual meetings of the Association. Committees of the Central 
Association of Science and Mathematics Teachers are working on special 
problems. The programs in home economics of the University of 
Chicago and Associated Secondary Schools are also contributing vigor- 
ous discussions of results of research. 

ILLUSTRATIVE RESEARCH PROBLEMS IN HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION 

Determination of minimum essentials. — The most urgent problem for 
scientific study is the determination of socially worth-while facts and 
processes for the home economics curriculum. The determining of 
minimum essentials through the use of content or information tests and 
through teachers' judgments, as evidenced by the analysis of textbooks 
and courses of study has been discussed. The next step involves 



Il8 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

the carrying on of various scientific studies for the purpose of deter- 
mining what ought to be taught. Illustrations are given of two of such 
studies. 

i. Studies of home-making procedure in typical homes. — Just as we first 
have canvassed the actual status of home economics education in the 
schools, so a survey of home-making activities in typical kinds of homes 
gives promise of worth-while results. To standardize the technique of 
such surveys the present writers have already carried on a preliminary 
analysis of two hundred and fifty homes. A detailed question blank 
was prepared on which investigators tabulated replies of individual 
home-makers. A sound collection of facts concerning what goes on in 
the home can be made only by having an investigator go to the home- 
makers personally, and by careful questioning secure answers to definitely 
formulated questions. Our own question blank, preliminary as it was, 
has gone through a number of stages and revisions. In spite of the care 
with which such question blanks are constructed, nothing but experi- 
mental filling out of such blanks with home-makers can enable one to 
prepare a complete scale. 

From such a blank one finds out, for example, what proportion of 
homes of various types handle the laundry work in the home — in what 
proportion commercial utilities are used. A good illustration of types 
of facts collected is the extent to which the home makes clothing as 
contrasted with its use of ready-to-wear clothing. Similarly the extent 
to which home-makers patronize bargain sales, how frequently they use 
commercial patterns, make their own patterns, alter patterns, use a 
form in dressmaking, renovate fabrics, dye fabrics, etc. Facts have 
been collected concerning the extent to which labor-saving devices are 
used — how many use bread mixers, cake mixers, dish washers, sewing 
machines, vacuum cleaners, etc. It is important to note how many 
keep household accounts: how many really operate their homes on a 
budget. The attendance upon clubs, to which much consideration of 
home-making problems is given, should also be canvassed, and the 
amount and kind of reading in home-making magazines. These that 
we have named are illustrative of the types of facts which have been 
collected by personal investigations of various types of homes. 

2. Studies of the judgments of home-makers who have had previous 
experience in teaching home economics. — It doubtless will be agreed that 
the home-maker of several years* experience who formerly has taught 
home economics in the public schools (and perhaps in higher institu- 
tions) will be best equipped to evaluate proposed curriculum material. 



A PROGRAM FOR SCIENTIFIC STUDY 1 19 

We propose as a part of the suggested program the careful canvass of 
the judgments of just such trained workers. An investigation of this 
type has already been launched by some of the present writers. Much 
work needs to be done by the home economics people generally over 
the country. 

It should be clearly recognized, however, that this type of investi- 
gation will merely throw a little light on the problem of what it will be 
possible to do in the home through the careful training of children in 
the public schools. It does not answer the question definitely of what 
ought to be taught in the public schools. 

STUDIES OF PLACEMENT OF SUBJECTS AND TOPICS 

Related to the problem of determining minimum essentials is that 
of the careful consideration of arrangement of material. This funda- 
mental problem of a graded curriculum — a sequential order of subjects 
and topics adapted to the developing maturity of children — can be 
attacked in two ways: first, by a thorough-going exchange of ideas in 
round-table discussions of home economics leaders; second, by the 
experimental teaching of proposed arrangements. Judgments should 
be compiled through the work of research investigators. Our report 
has pointed out the striking need of tentative agreement as to (1) the 
placement of subjects within the various grades, and (2) the most 
effective order of presentation and arrangement. The use of committee 
procedure at this point should lead to important advances. 

Tentative curriculum material permanently organized only through 
experimental teaching. The formulation of tentative courses of study 
by judgment methods is necessary. The final arrangement of material, 
however, can be determined only through classroom experiments in 
teaching. Scientific procedure in home economics education will find 
its finest expression, therefore, in detailed experiments in class presen- 
tation of curriculum material which has been selected in the foregoing 
ways. 

Experimental teaching means the study of how children learn. — We 
have previously said that the psychology of teaching home economics 
has not been formulated. It is apparent to students of the question 
that it will be developed only through intensive classroom studies of 
learning. One principle controls such classroom experiments: a teacher 
cannot teach and study learning effectively at the same time. That has 
been proved by years of attempts on the part of various workers. The 
scientific study of "learning" necessitates that at least two minds 



120 HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

work on the same problem at the same time: one mind, that of the 
teacher organizing and presenting her material in terms of the experi- 
ences of young children; the second, that of another teacher observing 
the former's class work critically, day after day, and later teaching the 
same subject-matter under the careful scrutiny of the teacher whom 
she observed in the previous hour. We commend to the attention of 
students of the scientific study of education in home economics the 
importance of setting up experiments of this kind. We are convinced 
that only by some such procedure can we write adequate school text- 
books or books on the psychological processes of learning. If we are to 
have a psychology of home economics, it must be written by teachers 
of home economics who have been trained in applied psychology. 
There is little promise that psychologists or educational psychologists 
themselves will write this material for us. We must do it ourselves 
through our own "laboratory." That laboratory is the class in dress 
design, nutrition, house planning and decoration, sewing, cooking, or 
household administration. The bare outlines of the technique have 
been suggested. Experimentation and detailed discussion of them 
should result in the amassing of important facts concerning how children 
learn in home economics, through which a real applied psychology will 
be constructed. 



INDEX 



Aims: set forth by teachers of home 
economics, 3; classification of, 60; 
difference between aims and outcomes, 
55; educational, 53; grouping of, 56; 
in household art, 65; need of, 53; of 
writers of textbooks in home economics, 
59; stated in professional home 
economics publications, 60 

American Home Economics Association, 
18 

Appreciation : abilities of enjoyment and, 
71; developing of, through art prin- 
ciples, 47; no psychology of, 71; tech- 
nique and information versus thinking 
and, 28 

Bough ton, Alice C, 66 

Bowman, Leona F., 77 

Budget, 44 

Buying, The teaching of intelligent, n 

Clothing: courses of, dominated by 
attention to textiles and sewing, 36; 
emphasis in textbooks, 38; ten most 
commonly used books, 25 

Completion test, The, 85 

Cooking, 5; food classification and com- 
position versus general principles of 
cooking, 14 

Cooley, Anna M., 18, 19 

Courses of Study: analysis of, 5; distri- 
bution of food and clothing courses, 6; 
order of projects, 15; time allotment 
in home economics courses, 6 

Criteria: for arrangement of subject- 
matter, 33, 49; for designing scales, 
100; selection of subject-matter, 33, 44 

Curriculum, The : arrangement of subject- 
matter, 33; emphasis given to various 
subjects, 34; scientific procedure for 
making, 117; selection of subject- 
matter, 33; situation, 5; standards 
for evaluation of, 29; teaching pro- 
cedure and, 3 

Dress design, 49 

Emphasis: evaluation of, given to 
subject-matter, 34; in clothing text- 
books, 41 ; in food topics, 47 

Experiments in food texts, 43 



Food: classification and composition 
versus general principles of cooking, 14; 
emphasis in textbooks, 41; most com- 
monly used books, 25; order of teach- 
ing, 50, 51; topics in, 47 

Freeman, F. N., 56 

Home Economics: arrangement of sub- 
ject-matter, 33; as an applied science 
of the public school curriculum, 70; 
current views of function and purpose 
of, 56; how the colleges classify, 18; 
public school, 5; selection of subject- 
matter, 33; time allotment to courses 
in, 6 

Home economics education: central pur- 
pose of, 72; needs in, 1; problems of, 
56; teaching emphasis in, 2 

Household art: specific aims in, 65 

Housewifery, 47, 48 

Information in home economics courses, 
3, 38, 39, 45 

Journal of Home Economics, 54, 60 
Judd, C. H., 56 

Judgment training in home economics, 
46, 57-61, 63, 64, 67 

Knapp, Clara B., 100 
Koos, L. V., 8; report, 63 

Lake Placid Conference Proceedings: 54, 
60 

Marketing, 47; neglect of, 48 

Marshall, Josephine A., 18 

Measuring: the results of teaching in 
textiles, dress design, sewing, and 
house planning, 75 

Methods: of presenting food lessons, 51; 
scoring tests, 86; training teachers in 
service, 29 

Millinery, 49 

Minimum essentials, 82, 117 

Murdock, Katherine, 76 

Needs: in home economics education, 1, 
115; unifying principles, 69 

Normal probability curve, 92 

Nutrition, 47, 48 



121 



122 



HOME ECONOMICS IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 



Objectives: educational, 53; stated in 
psychological terms, 73; summary of 
current statements of, 68 

Organization of home economics courses, 5 

Patterns: commercial versus drafted, 44 

Problem-solving in home economics 
instruction, 35, 38, 39, 42, 43 

Problems of home economics education, 
56 

Proceedings of the Lake Placid Confer- 
ence on Home Economics, 60 

Program: curriculum-making, 5, 115, 
117 

Projects: grading of, 17; order of, 1; 
sequence of, 14 

Questionnaire Form I, 21 

Questions in home economics textbooks, 
46 

Research problems in home economics 
education, 117 

Reasoning and content tests, 78; how 
used, 81; scope of, 81 

Recipes, 41, 50 

Rugg, H. O., 96 

Sanitation, 47, 48 

Scales and measurements: criteria for 
designing, 100; for measuring skill in 
machine sewing, 101 ; method of mark- 
ing pupil's work with, 104; statistical 
methods of construction, 105; why 
teachers should use, 112 

School subjects: need for unifying 
principles in the, 69 

Scoring: grading machine sewing tests, 
103; method of developing score 
values, 94-97 

Sequence: evaluation of, 5; in order of 
projects, 14; in teaching clothing sub- 
jects, 49; in teaching food subjects, 50, 

Si 



Sewing, 5; hand sewing versus machine 
sewing, 9; information tests in, 82; 
scales for measuring skill in machine 
sewing, 10 1 

Skill in home economics, 39, 40, 42, 58, 
64, 66, 100; in machine sewing, 10 1 

Spohr, Wilhelmina H., 18 

Standards for evaluating tendencies in 
curriculum-making in home economics, 
29 

Subject-matter: arrangement of, 33; 
selection of, 33 

Teachers College Records, 54, 63 

Teaching: emphasis in home economics, 
2, 34, 84; in textiles, 12; purposes, 53 

Technique in home economics: 3, 58; 
and habit formation, 57, 59-61, 63, 64, 
67 

Tests: available, 75; Test B, making 
a French seam, 101 ; Test C, hem on a 
straight edge, 101; checking, 85; 
completion, 85; content and reason- 
ing ability in textiles, dress design, 
sewing and houseplanning, 77, 78; 
methods of scoring checking, 86; prin- 
ciples of designing, 89; purpose of, 83; 
standardized, 75; and scales in home 
economics, 3; types of, for home eco- 
nomics, 76; what standardized tests 
will do for home economics, 98 

Textbooks: clothing, 25; education, 62; 
emphasis in clothing, 38; emphasis in 
food, 41; experiments in food, 43; 
food, 25; importance of analyzing, 29; 
most commonly used, 20; order in 
which subjects are introduced, 49 

Textiles: content tests in, 82, 83; meas- 
uring the results of teaching in, 77; 
types of material emphasized in teach- 
ing, 12 

Trilling, Mabel B., 77 

Whitford, W. G., 77 
Williams, Florence, 100 
Winchell, Cora M., 18 



*» Smchk; 

iniformity of distance between line oi stitching and the edge of the hem. 
fiist* 01 ' stitching slants away from edge of hem; ift, stitching very crooked; 

_™r- '■ -.'tine too fat from the edge. 
?°° ,c, * l,tM switching follows the edge fairly well but is not quite straight. 
Me di'« n: "' 3 straight stitching following the edge. 
flood" 5' 



Constructive Elements 
Turning the hem to the proper side of the material uni- 
formly to a specified width. 

Poor— i. m. Hem not uniform in width; ift. Hem 
turned to the right side of the material instead of to 
the wrong side; te. Hem not uniform in width and 
the first turn not caught in the stitching. 



3" 5<> 5 

Constructive Elements — e out inued 

Medium — 3. 3a. Width uniform but too wide; 3ft. Width 

unifonn but too narrow. 
Good = 5. Uniform specified width. 



Neatness 
Beginning properly 50 that the thread is not knotted, finishing ends neatly, making only 
e line of stitching. 
Poor = i. ifl. RelracinR too far from first line of stitching; ift. Thread knotted, two 

lines of stitching; ic. Ends unfinished. 
Medium = 3- Retracing fails to coincide exactly with the first line of stitching. 
Good = 5. Retracing coincides exactly. 



Poor=i. Ore thread forms loops which stand out distinctly above 

the other thread. 
Medium = 3. Loops not so distinct as in 1, yet they allow the second 

thread to lie flat on the surface of the cloth instead of being drawn 



Length of Stitch 
Poor= i. ia. Too long; iS. Too short. 
Medium — j. Medium length. 
Good = 5. Most desirable length. 



Spacing 

Distance and uniformity of distance between the line of 
stitching and the edge of the seam. 

Foot — t. m- Stitching crooked; it. Stitching too far from 

the edge; ic. Stitching too near the edge. 
Medium- 3. Stitching not quite straight. 
Good = s. Width of seam correct and very nearly uniform. 



Constructive Elements 
Making seam on proper side of materia] inclosing raw edges, turning seam 
directly on line oj first stitching. 

Poor=i. 13. Seam not turned close to line of stitching; ib. Raw edges not 
inclosed; if. Seam made on the right side of the material instead of on 
the wrong. 
Medium^. Part of the seam inaccurately turned. 
Good = 5- Seam on proper side of material, raw edges inclosed, edges of turn 



Neatness 

Beginning properly so lhat thread is not knotted, 

finishing ends neatly, making only one line of stitching. 

Poor™ I. 10. Thread knotted; lb. Two lines of 

stitching; if. Thread knotted, ends unfinished. 

Medium- 3. Slight imperfection in stitch, one end 

unfinished. 
Good = 5- Both ends properly finished, no knots. 



Tension 
Poor=i. One thread forms loops that stand out distinctly 

above (he other thread. 
Medium = 3. Loops not so distinct as in 1, yet they allow the 

second thread to lie flat on the surface of the cloth instead 

of being drawn down into it. 
Good = 5. Tension so adjusted that both threads are drawn 

into the cloth equally, making the stitch look alike on both 



Length of Stitch 
Poor = i. 10. Too short; 16. Too long. 
Medium = 3. Medium length. 
Good = 5. Moat desirable length. 



An experimental and statistical volume 



>ndary-School Units. By Leonard V. Koos, Ph.D. Pp. 



VOLUME II 

An experimental and statistical volume 

Scientific Method in the Reconstruction of Ninth-Grade Mathematics. By Hahold 
Ordway Rugg, Ph.D., and Jons Roscoe Clark, A.B. Pp. vi+190. Available only 
as part of a complete volume. 



No. 3. The Handwriting Movement. A Study of the Motor Factors of Excellence in Pen- 
manship. By Frank N. Fheevan, Ph.D. With the assistance of H. W. Nutt, Mary 
L.Dougherty, C.F.Dunn, and P. V. West. Pp. xvi + 170. Price $1.35, postpaid. 

No. 4. Reading: Its Nature and Development. By Charles Hubbard Judd, Ph.D. With 
the co-opera ti'in nf William Scott Gray, Kalhcrine McLaughlin, Clarence Truman 
Gray, Clara. Schmitt, and Adam Raymond Gilliland. -Pp. xiv-f-192. Available only 
as part of a complete volume. 



Home Economics in American Schools. By Mabel Barbara Trilling, Ethelwyn 
Miller, Leona Florence Bowman, Florence Williams, Clara Blanche Knapp, 
Viola Maria Bell, Bertha-Miller Rugo, with the collaboration of Harold Ordway 
Rucc, Ph.D. Pp. x+124. 11 plates. Price $1.25, postpaid. 



» • 



VOLUME HI 



\ 



N* 



J. If 






A historical volume 

No. i. Educational Legislation and Administration in the State of New 
York from 1777 to 1850. By Elsie Garland Hobson, Ph.D. 
Pp.268. Price $1.60, postpaid. 

No. 2. The History of Educational Legislation in Ohio from 1803 to 1850. 
By Edward Alanson Miller, Ph.D. Pp. 245. Price $2.00, 
postpaid. 

No. 3. Development of High-School Curricula in the North Central States. 
By John Elbert Stout, Ph.D., Professor of Educational Admin- 
istration, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. (In press.) 

No. 4. A History of Educational Legislation in Mississippi from 1 798 to 
i860. By William H. Weathersby, Ph.D., Professor of Educa- 
tion, Mississippi College, Clinton, Mississippi. (In press.) 

In view of the rapid changes which are taking place in the cost of publi- 
cation it is not advisable to announce additional volumes in this series. There 
will be announcements hereafter of numbers of the monographs in the order of 
publication. 

No. 17. An Experimental Study of the Eye-Voice Span in Reading. By 
Guy Thomas Bus well, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, 
the University of Chicago. (In press.) 



/ 



No. 18. An Experimental Study of the Reading of Isolated Numerals and 
of Numerals in Arithmetic Problems. By Paul Washington 
Terry, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington. (In press.) 



SUBSCRIPTION RATES 

The School Review 

The Elementary School Journal .... 



$2. $o a year 
2.50 a year 



Address all communications regarding subscriptions to The Department 
of Education, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. ' 






Date Due 























..A 


kA&s!^ 


,inr 


5^^( 


j. .Jtt 


w v 






p 












& »^ 


IV 25 W 






N( 


6 













































































TJClii .T7 




3 2044 029 046 422 



Demcn 38-297 



\ 



