
Class. 
Book.. 



"T 



\ , 



GopyiiglitJJ!* 



caiEmiGHT DEPosm 



6 



THBEE JS/SEALS-ADAf SERIES 



LEGUMES 

PEA5BEAN5LENTIIS 

FOR 

BREAKFAST. 
DINNER, SUPPER 



BES5IE R. MURPHY 



THREE'MEALS'A-DAY SERIES 

' JJL 

/ 3 / / 



LEGUMES 

DRIED BEANS, PEAS, LENTILS 



FOR 



BREAKFAST. DINNER, SUPPER 



Compiled and Edited By 
BESSIE R. MURPHY 

Southern Food Expert and Lecturer 



RAND McNALLY AND COMPANY 
CHICAGO NEW YORK 



Copyright, jq20, by 
Rand McNally & Company 







APR 28 1920 
©GU 5 667 5 6 



A-20 



Dedicated to 

SOMEBODY SOMEWHERE 

To be used by 

EVERYBODY EVERYWHERE 



Cookery .... means the econ- 
omy of your great-grandmothers^ and 
the science of modern chemists; it 
means much tasting and no wasting; 
it means English thoroughness, and 
French art, and Arabian hospitality; 
and it means, in fine, that you are 
to he perfectly and always *^ ladies'' 
— loaf-givers. 

RUSEIN 



THE INTRODUCTION 

This little series of books is a collection of tested and 
economical recipes for everyday foods that are obtainable 
everywhere and suitable for any of the three meals of the 
day. These recipes are written in plain, everyday terms. 
They are not all original — the authors of many of them 
are unknown. They form just a little series of everyday 
books for everybody from everywhere. 

The World War gave every homemaker an opportunity 
to realize the difference between use and abuse of foods. 
For years we have wasted much of the bountiful supply of 
food produced by our country. Let us then not go back- 
ward, but let us go forward, bending every energy to make 
lasting the benefit in health and economy gained from a 
diet that not only eliminates extravagance and waste in 
buying and serving, but also affords greater variety. 

The recipes in this series call for flour, sugar, and butter. 
To conserve these three foods just as long as our country 
and the peoples of Europe need them is the loyal and 
patriotic duty of — not the other fellow — but you. 

Measurements 
All measurements should be accurate to insure success. 
A standard measuring cup is equal to ]/2 pint. 
All measures are leveled. 
For }4 spoon divide with knife lengthwise. 
For J4 spoon divide with knife crosswise. 
For J4 spoon divide with knife crosswise. 






VI THE INTRODUCTION 

Substitutes 
The same substitutes are not obtainable in every state, 
and for this reason the following tables are given. You may 
use the ones to be obtained in your community. 

FLOUR 

For I cup of wheat flour, substitute : 
i^ cups barley 
yi cup buckwheat 
I *' corn flour 
I ** " meal 
I *' " starch 
I " peanut flour 
potato flour 
rice flour 
1 35^ cups rolled oats 
yi cup soy-bean flour 
\yi cups sweet-potato flour 

SUGAR 

For I cup of sugar, use : 

i>^ cups corn sirup 
\% " honey 
\yi, " maple sirup 
i^ " molasses 

BUTTER 

In place of one cup of butter, use: 
I cup oleomargarine 
% cup chicken fat 
yi cup clarified drippings 
1/i cup solid vegetable fat, such as Crisco 
3/^ cup cottonseed oil 
^ cup peanut oil 
^ cup com oil 



LEGUMES: DRIED BEANS, 
PEAS, AND LENTILS 

GENERAL STATEMENT 

Origin. Many nations either from choice or from 
necessity eat little or no meat, yet some protein food is 
found in their diet. That food is *'poor man's beef" — 
peas and beans. Beans were used by the ancient Greeks 
and Romans not only as a food, but as a ballot in voting, 
choice of a candidate being made by dropping a bean in 
a helmet. France and England honored this ancient food 
by a feast on Twelfth Night, when a bean was placed in 
a cake, the lucky one cutting the slice containing the bean 
being crowned **Bean King." Among the Hindoos this 
energy-giving food is fed to those going on a long journey, 
and the ancient Arabs preparing for difficult trips fed their 
horses a diet of beans. 

Every nation and coimtry has some variety of the bean: 
The Mongol eats his rice, but for his protein has the soy 
bean; the Mexican, whose meat supply is scant, uses the 
frijole bean; the Spaniard has his lentils, while India has 
a proverb, **Rice is good, but lentils are my life." South 
America claims the lima bean as a native, and Scotland 
the bone bean. The United States has one hundred and 
fifty varieties of beans being cultivated. The famous 
Boston baked beans are known everywhere. In fact, for 
all ages among all nations the pea and bean have held 
an important place as food for mankind. 



2 THREE-MEALS-A-DAY SERIES 

Common varieties of beans. The kidney bean is terra 
cotta in color, changing to brown when cooked. It is 
about ^ inch long. 

The lima bean has an ivory-greenish hue and is flat 
and broad. 

The frijole bean is reddish brown in color and is small 
and flat. 

The cowpea or field pea has many varieties — red, 
black, round, lady, black-eye, whippoorwill. 

The cranberry bean is pinkish cream in color, changing 
in cooking to brown; it is of medium size and plump. 

The pinto bean is similar in appearance to the cran- 
berry bean, but is lighter in color. 

Lentils are greenish brown in color and shaped like flat 
disks; they are about J4 inch in diameter. 

Navy beans are white and of very small size. 

The soy bean varies in color from yellowish and whitish 
to brown, green, and black; its shape varies from spherical 
to elliptical. 

How to buy beans. Most colored beans have a richer 
flavor than the white varieties. The best beans are of a 
uniform size. A well-dried bean is smooth and shiny. 
In buying beans see that they are clean, and free from 
weevils, stones, and grit. 

Food value of peas and beans. Considering the low cost 
and the quantity of protein furnished by beans, there is 
no vegetable that can compare with them in food value. 
They are rich in carbohydrates, supply tissue food, and 
furnish heat and energy to the body. They contain so 
much protein that they rank in value with meat, eggs, and 
cheese, and for this reason they should be used more as a 
meat substitute. 



LEGUMES: DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS 3 

Digestibility of beans. A dish of beans is considered a 
"hearty meal," and many complain that beans are diffi- 
cult to digest. This is frequently due to the fact they are 
not properly prepared and cooked. 

Cooking of beans. All dried beans require long slow cook- 
ing on account of the thick wall of cellulose that surrounds 
the starch and protein. Carefully look over the beans, 
rejecting all imperfect ones. Wash them clean and soak 
them over night in four times as much water as bulk of 
beans; add i teaspoon of soda to every quart of water. 
Then bring beans to the boiling point in the same water, 
let them boil about lo minutes, then pour off the water and 
add fresh water, adding i teaspoon salt to every quart of 
water. Finish cooking slowly with the cover partially off 
until the beans have reached the required tenderness. 

For baked and stewed beans the cooking must stop when 
the skins begin to crack. For soups they should be cooked 
until very soft. For serving with a sauce they must not 
be broken or mushy, but cooked until perfectly tender. 

Beans are more easily digested by many people if the 
skins are removed in the following way: Parboil beans 
until the skins crack, then put them into a colander, pour 
cold water over them, and rub them between the hands 
to loosen the skins. Then return beans to kettle to cook. 

Soy beans require about 4 hours to cook, lima beans 
about i}4 hours, black-eyed peas and all spotted beans 
about 3 hours, and white beans 3>^ hours. On account 
of the long slow cooking the fireless cooker is invaluable 
in the cooking of beans. 

Cooking of peas and lentils. The same method is employed 
in boiling peas and lentils as that used for dried beans. 



DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS FOR BREAKFAST 

Baked Beans 
Any kind of beans may be baked in the following manner : 
Soak the beans over night. Cook them until the skins 
begin to break, then drain off the water. Put a layer of 
beans in a deep earthen or glass baking dish ; in the center, 
place a piece of salt pork, using yi. pound for every quart 
of beans. Fill the dish with beans, add seasoning (i tea- 
spoon salt and yi teaspoon pepper to every quart), and 
enough water to cover the beans. Bake the beans in a 
moderate oven 8 or lo hours. Add a little boiling water 
from time to time, but never let water be above the top of 
the beans. Do not cover while baking. 



Boston Baked Beans 

2 cups beans y^ pound salt pork 

I teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons molasses 

I cup boiling water 

Soak and cook beans as directed on page 3. In the 
morning drain off the water, add fresh water, and cook 
slowly until beans are tender. Drain them. Scald the 
pork, scrape, and gash the rind in several places. Put 
beans in baking dish, add the pork, leaving the rind exposed. 
Mix molasses, salt, and boiling water and pour mixture 
over the beans; then add enough boiling water to cover. 
Cover dish and bake slowly about 7 hours. Add boiling 
water from time to time. Remove cover at last so as to 
brown mixture. 



LEGUMES: DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS 5 

Baked Beans with Rice 

4 cups navy beans yi pound salt pork 

I teaspoon salt i cup rice (cooked) 

Soak beans over night. In the morning put them into 
a saucepan and cook them with the pork slowly until they 
are tender. Remove pork, drain the beans, turn them 
into baking dish, and add the rice. Cook 30 minutes 
without stirring, so that the rice will remain on top. (Cover 
to prevent rice from burning.) 



DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS FOR DINNER 

Bean Soup 

1 cup dried beans i tablespoon fat 

2 quarts water Salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon flour to taste 

Let beans soak over night. Drain off water and put 
beans in a saucepan, with 2 quarts of water, and let them 
simmer for several hours until the beans are tender, adding 
more water if necessary. When beans are perfectly soft, 
press them through a sieve, adding enough water or stock 
to make soup the consistency of cream. Add the flour 
and the fat rubbed together until smooth and boil. 

Baked-Bean Soup 

3 cups cold baked beans i^ cups canned to- 
3 pints water mato pulp 

2 slices onion 2 tablespoons fat 
2 tablespoons flour Salt and pepper 

Put water, beans, and onion into saucepan, bring them 
to the boiling point, and let them simmer 30 minutes. 
Remove them from the fire and rub them through a sieve. 
Add tomato, salt, and pepper to taste, and mix well with 
the flour and fat rubbed well together. Cook all together. 

Cream-of-Lentil Soup 

2 cups mashed cooked 2 tablespoons flour 

lentils 2 tablespoons butter 

8 cups water 2 cups milk 

3 tablespoons chopped onion 

Cook the onions 10 minutes. Add them to the lentils 

6 



LEGUMES: DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS 7 

and run mixture through a sieve. Melt the butter, add 
flour and milk, and cook 5 minutes. Combine the two 
mixtures, season to taste, and serve. 

Split-Pea Soup 

1 cup peas (soaked over i chopped onion 
night) I teaspoon butter 

2]4. quarts water 2 tablespoons flour 

y^ pound salt pork i teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk yi teaspoon pepper 

To the well-drained peas add the water, the pork, and 
the chopped onion, simmering mixture slowly until peas 
are soft. Press through a sieve and add the flour mixed 
with a little cold water, butter, salt, pepper, and the hot 
milk. Put soup over the fire and let it come to the boiling 
point. Serve at once. 

Soy-Bean Soup 

I cup cooked soy beans i stalk celery 

4 cups cold water i teaspoon salt 

y2 onion ^ teaspoon pepper 

I tablespoon fat 

Cook the onion in the fat, add beans, water, and season- 
ing. Cook slowly I hour. Serve at once. 

CowPEA Soup 

1 quart boiled peas 3 onions (chopped fine) 

2 ounces bacon 4 quarts hot water 

(chopped fine) Salt and pepper 

Put into a saucepan the bacon, onions, salt, pepper, and 
water and boil 25 minutes. Rub the cooked peas through 
a sieve, add the above mixture, and boil i hour. Serve hot. 



8 THREE-MEALS-A-DAY SERIES 

Cream-of-Lima-Bean Soup 

1 cup dried lima beans i cup milk 

4 carrots 3 tablespoons fat 

2 onions 2 tablespoons flour 

3 pints water i teaspoon salt 

yi teaspoon pepper 

Soak the beans over night. Drain them and cook them 
in water until they are soft. Rub them through a sieve. 
Cut the carrots and onions into small cubes, add half the 
butter, and cook 5 minutes. Stir flour and salt into the 
boiling soup, ad(J milk, strain, and reheat. Put in remain- 
ing butter and serve soup hot. 

Baked Peas 

Wash peas. Put them into a saucepan with a piece of 
bacon and cover with cold water. Boil until peas are 
tender. Pour them into a baking dish with a little butter, 
salt, and pepper. Leave the piece of bacon and half bury 
it in the middle of the dish. Cook slowly until peas are 
a delicate brown. 

Baked Cowpeas and Cheese 

2 cups cooked peas ij^ tablespoons butter 

y2 cup grated cheese i tablespoon onion 

I teaspoon salt i teaspoon salt 

I tablespoon chopped sweet green pepper 

Press the peas through a sieve and mix them with the 
cheese. Cook the onion and pepper in the butter, but 
do not brown them; add mixture to peas and cheese. 
Form into a roll and bake in a moderate over until brown. 
Baste occasionally with butter and water. 



LEGUMES: DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS 9 

Baked Pinto Beans 

I pound pinto beans 2 teaspoons salt 

yi pound pork Pepper 

I sliced onion 2 tablespoons molasses 

Wash, soak, and cook beans as directed on page 3. 
When they are done, drain and turn them into a baking 
dish on top of the sliced onion. Cut rind of pork and 
place it on top of beans, rind up. Mix the seasoning in a 
quart of boiling water and pour enough into dish to reach 
the top of the beans, keeping the remainder to add as 
needed. Bake in a slow oven 6 hours. 

Baked Lentils 

I quart lentils J^ teaspoon pepper 

I quart water y^ pound salt pork 

I teaspoon salt i small onion 

Wash and soak lentils over night. Drain them in the 
morning and put them into a saucepan with 2 quarts of 
cold water and heat slowly. As the water boils, the lentils 
will rise to the top. Remove them and place them in a 
deep baking dish with pork and onion in the center. Mix 
the seasoning with the boiling water and add to the dish. 
Cook slowly in moderate oven 4 hours, adding a little water 
from time to time. 

Lentils and Rice 

I cup lentils i onion 

1 cup rice Salt 

2 tablespoons butter Pepper 

Wash the lentils and soak them over night. Drain and 
cook them in i pint water for i hour. When done the 
lentils should be a dry mass. Wash and boil the rice. Put 



lO THREE-MEALS-A-DAY SERIES 

2 tablespoons butter into a frying pan. When it is melted, 
add the sliced onion, then the lentils and rice, and stir over 
the fire 1 5 minutes. Season to taste. 

Bean Polenta 

1 pint white beans i tablespoon butter 
lyi tablespoons molasses i tablespoon vinegar 
]4. teaspoon mustard Salt and pepper 

Wash the beans and soak them over night. In the 
morning drain off this water, cover beans with fresh water, 
and boil slowly i hour. Drain again, cover with i quart 
freshly boiled water, and boil slowly another hour. When 
beans are done, press them through a sieve, return them to 
the kettle, add the butter, molasses, mustard, salt, pepper, 
and vinegar, stir, and boil 10 minutes. 

Bean Tomato Stew 
1% cups cooked white 2 tablespoons butter 

beans i teaspoon salt 

2 cups tomato juice yi teaspoon paprika 
1/2 sliced onion (stewed Speck soda 

until tender in tomato 

juice) 
Strain tomato and onion mixture. Add the beans, season- 
ing, and butter. Cook until stew is thick enough to serve 
on plate. 

Lentil Casserole 
2 cups cooked lentils 4 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon salt i onion 

2 cups tomatoes i cup bread crumbs 

Cook lentils as directed on page 3. Brown chopped 
onion in fat. Place lentils, tomatoes, and onion in layers 



LEGUMES: DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS n 

in a well-greased baking dish; cover them with bread 
crumbs and the melted butter. Bake in a moderate oven 
until mixture is brown. 

English Peas in Ramekins 

1 cup pea pulp Few drops onion juice 
3 eggs White sauce 

Soak the dried peas over night, cook them in the morn- 
ing until they are tender, adding y^ teaspoon salt to i cup 
peas. When peas are tender, press them through a sieve. 
Combine them with the white sauce, beaten ^^g, and sea- 
soning. Put mixture into well-greased ramekins and bake 
slowly 40 minutes. 

White Sauce 
yi cup milk I teaspoon cornstarch 

2 tablespoons butter yi teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

Melt the butter, stir in cornstarch or flour, add the milk, 
and stir until mixture is thick and smooth. Then add the 
seasoning. 

Savory Beans 

yi pound lima beans i onion 

I cup milk I bay leaf 

^2 cup canned tomatoes i teaspoon allspice 

I tablespoon butter 2^ teaspoons salt 

yi teaspoon pepper 

Wash and soak the beans over night. In the morning 
cook them until they are tender, and drain. Add the milk, 
the tomatoes, fat, onion chopped fine, allspice, salt, and 
pepper. Pour mixture into a well-greased baking dish and 
bake i hour in a moderate oven. 



12 THREE-MEALS-A-DAY SERIES 

Kidney Beans with Brown Sauce 

1 pint kidney beans i teaspoon butter 

I cup brown sauce 

Soak and cook beans as directed on page 3. Drain 
them and put them into a saucepan with the butter for a 
few minutes. Add i cup brown sauce and cook slowly 
5 minutes. 

BROWN SAUCE 

Put into saucepan i tablespoon butter and brown until 
it is dark, but not burned. To this add i tablespoon flour 
and brown again. Add slowly i cup stock or hot water 
and stir until mixture is smooth and thick. Season with 
salt and pepper and cook 5 minutes. 

Lima-Bean Loaf 

2 cups lima beans 4 tablespoons peanut 

1 cup bread crumbs butter 

2 tablespoons grated % teaspoon pepper 
onion i cup stock 

I tablespoon bacon fat 

Wash, soak, and cook the beans as directed on page 3. 
Drain and chop beans coarse. Add crumbs mixed with 
seasoning and butter, then add liquid and fat. Pour 
mixture into a well-greased baking pan and bake in a 
moderate oven 35 minutes. 

Tomato Bean Loaf 

^ I cup cooked beans i cup milk 

iy2 cup bread crumbs i cup cooked tomatoes 

Pepper and salt 

Mash the beans fine and add the bread crumbs, the milk, 
and tomatoes, and season to taste. Pour mixture into a 



LEGUMES: DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS 13 

well-greased baking dish and cook in a moderate oven i 
hour. Serve cold in slices. 

Soy-Bean Loaf 

2 cups soy beans i egg 

K cup cut salt pork i tablespoon chopped 

1 chopped onion parsley 

3 tablespoons fat 2 tablespoons chopped 
2]/i cups bread crumbs green pepper 

I teaspoon salt 
Wash beans and soak them over night. In the morning 
drain and cover them with cold water to which add the 
pork cut in cubes. Cook until beans are soft and then 
drain them. Brown the bread crumbs in the fat, add the 
parsley, pepper, salt, well-beaten eggs, and soy beans. Mix 
well and make into a loaf, put into well-greased pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven i>^ hours. Turn out on platter 
and if desired serve with tomato sauce. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Cook slowly for 10 minutes >^ can tomatoes, i chopped 
onion, yi teaspoon salt, i clove. Remove mixture from 
fire and press it through a sieve. Cook together i table- 
spoon each of flour and butter i minute, add tomato mix- 
ture, stir until smooth, and cook slowly 5 minutes. 

Boston Roast 

2 cups kidney beans 3 teaspoons salt 

1 cup bread crumbs j^ cup water 

2 cups grated cheese i tablespoon chopped 

onion 
Wash, soak, and cook beans as directed on page 3. In 
the morning mash the beans, add the cheese, onion, crumbs, 



14 THREE-MEALS-A-DAY SERIES 

salt, and the water. Form into a loaf. Bake in a moderate 
oven 40 minutes. 

Pea Timbales 

I cup pea pulp I cup milk 

3 eggs X teaspoon pepper 

Onion juice 

To the pea pulp add the eggs, milk, and seasoning. Mix 
and pour into greased molds. Set molds in a shallov/ pan 
of hot water and bake in a medium oven until mixture is 
set. Turn out on a platter and pour over the timbales 2 
cups white sauce. 

For white sauce, see page 11. 

Hopping John with Tomato Sauce 

I quart cowpeas 3 tablespoons butter 

I pint rice 2 teaspoons salt 

Soak cowpeas over night in enough water to cover. In the 
morning cook until peas are tender. Cook the rice in 3 
pints water. Add the rice to the cowpeas, season with 
salt and butter. Serve with tomato sauce. For tomato 
sauce, see page 13. 

Pinto-Bean Loaf 

I pint cold boiled pinto i cup cooked rice 

beans 3 tablespoons tomato 

I well-beaten egg catsup 

I tablespoon minced onion 2 teaspoons salt 
yi teaspoon pepper 

Mix ingredients in the order given, shape into a loaf, 
place two slices of bacon on top, and bake in moderate 



LEGUMES: DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS iS 

oven 30 minutes. The loaf may be served with tomato 
sauce if desired. For tomato sauce, see page 13. 

Baked Pinto Beans and Tomatoes 

I pound pinto beans i teaspoon mustard 

yi onion 2 teaspoons salt 

y^ pound salt pork % teaspoon pepper 

1 pint canned tomatoes i cup hot water 

Wash and soak beans over night. Drain and cook them 
in fresh water to which has been added ^ teaspoon soda. 
Boil about 10 minutes. Place in baking dish onion and 
part of pork, add a layer of beans, repeat layers, leaving 
small piece of pork for top. Mix seasoning, hot water, and 
tomatoes and pour them over the beans. Bake slowly in 
moderate oven 6 hours. Add more water if necessary. 

Mock Turkey or Savory Roast 

2 cups legume puree 2 teaspoons sage 

2 eggs I cup strained tomato 

^T. cup toasted bread 2 cups nut meal or finely 

crumbs chopped nuts 

y2 cup browned flour % cup cream 

2 teaspoons celery salt 2 tablespoons grated onion 

I teaspoon salt 

Cook the legumes (lentils, peas, or beans) until they are 
dry and tender. Make a puree by mashing them through 
a colander. To the slightly beaten ^gg add the puree and 
the other ingredients in the order given. Bake either in 
the form of a turkey or as a loaf in a hot oven 20 to 30 
minutes, until well browned. Serve with a brown sauce or 
a cream sauce. 



1 6 THREE-MEALS-A-DAY SERIES 

Kidney Beans and Macaroni 

1 cup macaroni 2 quarts water 

2 tablespoons flour ^ cup milk 

2 tablespoons butter % cup strained tomato 
2 teaspoons salt i pint cooked kidney beans 

Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water from 20 
minutes to i hour, or until it is soft enough to crush between 
the fingers. Drain, and pour a cupful of cold water through 
it. Make a cream sauce of the butter and flour and the 
milk, which should be heated first. Cook sauce 5 minutes, 
then add the strained tomato. Add to this sauce the 
thoroughly drained mxacaroni and the kidney beans. Salt 
to taste. Heat the mixture, then turn it into a vegetable 
dish and serve. The beans mash easily; hence stir the 
mixture gently. 



DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS FOR SUPPER 

Bean and Potato Puff 

iy2 cups bean pulp }4 cup bread crumbs 

I cup mashed potatoes i beaten egg 

Mix all the ingredients, season with a little onion juice, 
salt, and pepper. Drop by spoonfuls on a well-greased pan. 
Bake in moderate oven until puffy and brown. Serve hot. 

Creamed Peas 
I pint peas i teaspoon salt 

y2 pint cream Pepper 

Butter 

Soak the peas in cold water over night. Free them 
from the skins by rubbing them between the hands. Con- 
tinue washing them in cold water until all of the skins are 
removed. Put them into saucepan to cook with enough 
water to cover them; boil slowly until they are thoroughly 
done. Press peas through a colander; season with salt 
and pepper, add cream and a small piece of butter. Whip 
mixture the same as mashed potatoes and serve hot. 

Pea Souffle 

I cup pea pulp 3 eggs 

}4, cup bread crumbs 

SAUCE 

^2 cup milk or meat stock j4 teaspoon salt 

yi teaspoon pepper 

]\Iake sauce of ingredients indicated. Add crumbs, pea 
pulp, and beaten yolks. Fold in the egg whites. Bake 
until soufHe is firm (about 35 minutes) in a moderate oven. 

17 



i8 THREE-MEALS-A-DAY SERIES 

Bean Souffle 

I pint bean pulp ]/^ teaspoon celery salt 

4 eggs % teaspoon onion salt 

1 tablespoon lemon juice i teaspoon salt 

Press stewed or baked beans through a colander, and 
add the lemon juice and seasonings to the pulp. Beat the 
yolks of eggs very light and add them to the bean pulp. 
Then fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Turn the 
mixture into a greased baking dish, set the dish in a pan 
of hot water, and bake in oven 25 to 30 minutes. Serve 
at once. 

Soy-Bean Souffle 

2 cups soy-bean pulp i teaspoon onion juice 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons parsley 

Separate the eggs and beat well, add the onion juice, 
soy-bean pulp, and parsley, and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of the eggs. Pour mixture into a baking pan and 
bake slowly 20 minutes. 

Mock Sausage 

]/2 cup lima beans i ^gg 

y^ cup bread crumbs Pepper and salt 

3 tablespoons butter ^ teaspoon sage 

Wash, soak over night, and cook beans until they are 
tender. Put through a colander and add other ingredients. 
Shape like sausages, roll in crumbs, eggy and crumbs again. 
Fry in fat until brown. 

Bean Croquettes 

I pint white beans i tablespoon vinegar 

I tablespoon molasses i tablespoon butter 

Salt and pepper 



LEGUMES: DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS 19 

Wash, soak, and cook beans as directed on page 3. 
When they are done, drain and press them through a col- 
ander, add the other ingredients, mix well, and let them 
cool. Form into croquettes or small balls, dip them in 
egg and then in bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 

Lentil Croquettes with Rice 

I cup cooked lentils ]/2 cup milk 

I cup cooked rice i beaten egg 

Salt 

Put lentils through a sieve. Mix them with the rice, 
milk, egg, and salt. Shape into croquettes, roll them in 
egg and then in bread crumbs, spread a little milk on top, 
and put them in oven and bake until brown. 

Louisiana Lentils 

1 cup lentils i onion 

2 cups canned tomatoes 2 tablespoons butter 

3 red peppers 

Wash, soak, and cook lentils as directed on page 3. 
Drain them. Melt the butter in a baking dish, add the 
onion and pepper chopped fine, cook until the butter is 
brown, and add the tomatoes, salt, pepper, and well- 
drained lentils. Cook uncovered 30 minutes. 

Lima Beans a la Creole 

I cup lima beans J/2 green pepper 

1 teaspoon salt i cup tomatoes 

2 tablespoons butter }4 tablespoon onion 
J/2 red pepper (cut in i teaspoon grated 

strips) horseradish 

Wash, soak, and cook beans as directed on page 3. 
Drain them. Cook onion and green pepper in butter 2 



20 THREE-MEALS-A-DAY SERIES 

minutes, add beans and other ingredients, and cook slowly 
lo minutes. Serve on buttered toast. 



Lentil Cutlets 

% cup lentils (soaked i tablespoon butter 

over night) ij^ tablespoons 

ij^ tablespoons cooked bread crumbs 

meat % teaspoon salt 

yi tablespoon chopped Pepper 

onion i ^zg 

Put lentils, meat, onion, and bread crumbs through meat- 
grinder. Add other ingredients. Form into cutlets, roll 
them in flour, brush them over with milk, roll them in 
bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Serve hot. 

Lentil and Potato Loaf 

i^ cups lentil puree i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter Y^ teaspoon sage 

y^ cup cream 2 cups riced potatoes 

I tablespoon butter 

Soak I cup raw lentils over night. Drain, and cook 
them in boiling water until they are tender. When they 
are nearly done, allow the water to evaporate until the 
lentils are dry. Put them through a colander to make a 
puree. Then add the butter, cream, salt, and sage. Force 
through a ricer two freshly boiled potatoes which have 
been boiled in salted water and thoroughly dried. Season 
them with butter, and additional salt if necessary. Place 
the lentil mixture on the bottom of a buttered baking dish 
and on top of this a layer of potato. Brush the top with 
a little cream or melted butter, and bake until well browned. 



LEGUMES: DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS 21 

Peas Patties 
I cup split peas >^ teaspoon salt 

3 pints water i cup bread crumbs 

4 tablespoons butter i egg 

I tablespoon chopped onion 

Soak the peas over night, then cook them in the 3 pints 
of water. When they are done, rub them through the 
colander to make a rather dry puree. Stir in the beaten 
egg and the other ingredients, adding enough bread crumbs 
to absorb the moisture. Shape the mixture into round 
cakes and bake them on an oiled tin in a quick oven. 
Brush the tops several times with milk during the baking. 
Serve with white sauce (page 11), tomato sauce (page 13), 
or brown sauce (page 12). 



22 THREE-MEALS-A-DAY SERIES 

BEAN AND PEA SALADS 

Lima-Bean Salad 

I cup cooked lima beans 3 tablespoons chopped onions 
2 tablespoons chopped parsley 

Mix the beans, onions, and parsley together. Put 
them on lettuce leaves, garnish with stuffed olives, and 
serve with French dressing. 

Kidney Bean Salad 

2 cups cooked kidney 3 sweet pickles chopped 

beans i cup diced celery 

Mix well the beans, celery, and pickle. Mix with may- 
onnaise and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Pea Salad 

1 pint white peas % teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons salad oil )/2 teaspoon mustard 
y2 teaspoon sugar yi teaspoon celery salt 
yi teaspoon pepper 5 teaspoons vinegar 

Soak and cook peas until they are tender. Put them 
on salad dishes and pour over them a dressing made as 
follows: Rub to a smooth paste the oil, sugar, pepper, 
salt, mustard, and celery salt, and whip in the vinegar, a 
teaspoon at a time, mixing thoroughly. 



LEGUMES: DRIED BEANS, PEAS, AND LENTILS 23 

HOW TO USE LEFT-OVER BEANS AND PEAS 

Any left-over cooked beans or peas may be mashed and 
used for croquettes by the addition of salt, pepper, and 
I tablespoon melted butter to every cup of beans or peas. 
Stir this mixture into a well-beaten egg, roll it into small 
balls, dip them in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot 
fat imtil brown. 

Warmed-Over Baked Beans 

Put into a frying pan some of the left-over pork of the 
beans. When the fat has melted, pour in the beans, 
cover, and set on back of the stove, where they will cook 
slowly and brown. When they are brown, fold them over 
like an omelet, turn out on platter, and serve hot. 

Succotash 

Left-over cooked lima beans may be added to left-over 
cooked corn, mixed with a little sweet milk, to which has 
been added for every cup of milk i tablespoon butter and 
a little salt and pepper. Cook slowly about 10 minutes. 

Pancakes 

Mash I cup left-over lentils and put them through a sieve. 
Season with salt, pepper, a little butter, and i egg beaten 
with yi. cup milk. Add yi cup flour sifted, yi teaspoon 
baking powder, mix well, and fry on greased griddle. 



24 THREE-MEALS-A-DAY SERIES 

BEANS AND PEAS COOKED IN FIRELESS COOKER 

For Soups 
Soak beans or peas over night, drain them, and to i 
cup beans or peas add 2 quarts of water, add other soup 
ingredients, and boil slowly on stove 15 minutes. Use one 
radiator and cook for 4 hours. 

Stewed Peas or Beans 
Prepare peas or beans as directed on page 3, using i 
cup beans well covered with water. Use one radiator 
and leave in cooker 5 hours. 

Baked Beans 
Prepare beans as directed on page 3. Bring them to a 
boil on the stove and place them in fireless cooker, using 
two heated radiators. Let them remain 3 hours, then 
remove and put in final seasoning. Reheat the two radi- 
ators, return the beans and radiators, and leave them in 
cooker about 4 hours. 



THREE-MEALS-A-DAY-SERIES 

By Bessie R. Murphy, Food Expert and Lecturer 

The books of this little series for school and home use are something 
more than a collection of tested recipes for the preparation of foods 
we know. They represent, besides, a thrifty and thinking use of 
home-grown foods to the most appetizing, economical, and healthful 
ends. 

Rice : For Breakfast, Dinner, and Supper. 

In the inviting recipes of this little book, rice is shown not only in 
its possibilities as a cereal, soup, salad, dinner vegetable, bread, dessert, 
and invalid food, but in its value for nourishment and energy, and as 
an admirable balance for the diet. 

Peanuts : For Breakfast, Dinner, and Supper. 

Wholesome, healthful, and flavorous, the humble peanut is presented 
in its countless uses for the table — as breads, meat substitutes, dressing 
for poultry, salads, desserts, candies, butter, and relishes — food prepa- 
rations that whet the appetite, and at the same time bring before us 
the importance of the peanut as a food. 

Corn Meal : For Breakfast, Dinner, and Supper. 

In the breads, griddlecakes, tamales, corn-cheese sticks, croquettes 
of meat, and other good things, the young cook gets not only a sug- 
gestion of the Indian feast — "green corn and venison" — but instruction 
as to how to prepare and cook properly corn-meal dishes that tempt 
the appetite. 

Potatoes : For Breakfast, Dinner, and Supper. 

Anyone who uses this book will approach potatoes, whether Irish 
or sweet, with a new interest. It is surprising how many toothsome 
changes may be rung on the necessary tuber in the way of breads, 
as a vegetable in combination with others, as croquettes, salads, 
doughnuts, cakes, pies. 

Legumes : Dried Beans, Peas, and Lentils. 

Under Legumes, the student comes to know the unusual food value 
of beans, peas, and lentils, as compared with other vegetables and 
their cost, also that there are innumerable ways of preparing "the 
poor man's beef" in savory baked and stewed dishes, and soups. 

Bound in paper, price, each, I0.25 

RAND McNALLY & COMPANY 

CHICAGO NEW YORK 



//^-aG\} 



HOME ECONOMICS SERIES 

LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Bp Frances Elizahelh Stewart, Instructor in Home Economics, 
Robert Lindblom Technical High School, Chicago 

This series, a two-year course for high schools, is a definite force 
for self-help. Based upon economic values, and treating foods and 
their preparation for the child, adult, and invalid in relation to health, 
these four books not only make for better and more profitable service 
in the home, but they lay the foundation for a radical improvement 
in health for those who come under its influence. 

Food Economy. Book One consists of lessons in cooking care- 
fully planned to lower the cost of living and to attain the greatest values 
in food. Naturally "the balanced ration" and "complete dishes" 
are features of the book. Food Economy treats preservation of 
foods by means of drying and canning, "left-overs," inexpensive meat 
cuts, stews, meat substitutes, bread, and wheat substitutes, and gives 
invaluable exercises and aids for the use of the future housewife. 
$1.25 

Diet for Adults, in Book Two the needs of the worker are the 
subject of study, and calorie values are the basis of the dishes treated. 
Suitable diets for both hard and light workers are carefully considered. 
Problems in calorie values, such as the loo-calorie portion scheme, give 
the pupil thinking work to do $1.25 

Diet for Children. Book Three deals with suitable food for 
babies and children. For the older infant there are broths, gruels, and 
fruit juices, and for children of four to eight years, such dishes as cereals, 
cream soups, simple fruit and milk desserts. The older child also has 
attention. Sections on lunch boxes, parties, and penny lunchrooms 
have point for teacher, parent, and pupil $1.25 

Diet for Invalids. Book Four gives an interesting insight into 
foods in their relation to disease. Here are bran breads and dried 
foods useful for elimination diseases, special diet for diabetes and 
fever patients, and for children wasting from malnutrition; here are 
foods valuable for iron, fats, and proteins. The book is one of worth, 
not only to the teacher and pupil, but to the nurse and mother. .$1.25 

These books are bound also in laboratory 
form ready for filing in notebooks 

Price, each $1.25 

RAND McNALLY & COMPANY 

CHICAGO NEW YORK 



LBAg'20 



