OLD AGE DEFERRED 



LORAND, M.D. 



J 

1^1* 



axvonj n n 



Old Age Deferred 



THE CAUSES OF OLD AGE AND ITS POSTPONEMENT 

BY HYGIENIC AND THERAPEUTIC 

MEASURES 



Man does not die, 
he kills himself. 

Sentca 



BY 

ARNOLD LORAND, M.D. 

In 



FIFTH EDITION 

Translated, with additions, by the Author 
from the Third German Edition 





PHILADELPHIA 

F. A. DAVIS COMPANY, PUBLISHERS 
1920 






-ft v? 

.V 



COPYRIGHT, 1910 
COPYRIGHT, 1916 

BY 

F. A. DAVIS COMPANY 



Copyright, Great Britain. All Rights Reserved 



REPRINTED: February, April, October, 1911; May, November, 1912; May, 1913; 
February, 1914; January, June, November, 1915; March, September, 1916; February, 
1917; February, June, September, October, 1920. 



PRESS OF 

F. A. DAVIS COMPANY 
PHILADELPHIA, U.S.A. 



PREFACE TO NEW REVISED EDITION. 



THE sudden and premature deaths in recent 
years of numerous prominent people, through 
arteriosclerosis, impressed me strongly that 
these persons might be still alive if they had been 
better informed of hygienic living. This gave me 
the idea of preparing a special section in this new 
edition, dealing with the prevention of this high mor- 
tality from arteriosclerosis and also with the preven- 
tion and treatment of high blood-pressure. At the 
same time, I am availing myself of this opportunity 
with an endeavor to augment, so far as possible, the 
general purpose of this book, which is to fight old age 
by all means that are at our disposal. I am also 
adding a few suggestions on the treatment of old 

looks. 

DR. ARNOLD LORAND. 



(iii) 



PREFACE. 

WHOEVER takes up this book with the idea that the aged can 
be transformed into sprightly adolescents will be disappointed. 
A work based entirely on evidence of a scientific nature, as is the 
present volume, cannot have such an end in view, since it is 
altogether unattainable at least with what knowledge is now 
available. 

But while it is still impossible for us to create a young man 
out of an old one, it is quite within the bounds of possibility, as we 
shall endeavor to demonstrate herein, to prolong our term of 
youthfulness by ten or twenty years. In other words we need no 
longer grow old at forty or fifty; we may live to the age of 
ninety or one hundred years, instead of dying at sixty or seventy. 
All this can be brought about by the observance of certain 
hygienic measures, and by improving the functions of a certain 
few of the glandular structures in our body, provided incurable 
organic disorders have not already too gravely compromised one 
or more of our main organs. 

In a communication to the Paris Biological Society, pre 
sented in our name by Dr. Gley, Professor of Physiology at the 
University of Paris, and in an address delivered before the Brus- 
sels Royal Society of Medical and Natural Sciences, we described 
old age as a chronic disease due to degeneration of the glands 
with internal secretions (hereinafter frequently referred to as the 
ductless glands), of the thyroid, the sexual glands, and the 
adrenals in particular. In this work we will show that this 

(v) 



vi Preface. 

degeneration is amenable to treatment, just as are chronic diseases 
in general. 

The facts herein presented are illustrated and sustained by 
numerous experimental and clinical observations. Being desirous 
of proving the correctness of all our statements, we have had to 
enter, sometimes very fully, into the question of the ductless 
glands, in order to point out the marvelous influence they exert 
upon the various vital functions. 

In view of the fact that the ductless glands have already 
been treated in a very elaborate and exhaustive manner by a well- 
known American author, Professor C. E. de M. Sajous, of Phila- 
delphia, in his work on the "Internal Secretions" (2 volumes) 
which introduces many new thoughts and important discoveries, 
we have paid particular attention to the thyroid and sexual glands, 
which we have carefully studied anatomically, histologically, 
experimentally and clinically. 

Not being a native of, or even resident in, either America or 
England, though possessed of a fair knowledge of the English 
language having delivered addresses in several universities, and 
before numerous medical societies in the United States, Canada, 
England, and Scotland it was very difficult for us to avoid 
idiomatic errors. We take great pleasure in acknowledging, 
therefore, our indebtedness to our friend, Col. Frank Haddan, of 
London, who, being impressed with the importance of our subject 
and its humanitarian aspect, kindly volunteered to look through 
our manuscript and correct most of our errors of style and 
grammar, thereby rendering us valuable assistance. Our thanks 
are also due to Dr. Le6 Rosenthal, of New York, for the adjust- 
ment of many technical sentences. 

Every one will admit that the subject treated in this work is 
not an easy one. It might be urged also that its presentation 



Preface. vii 

here is based on entirely novel lines, scientific literature on old 
age being very scarce. 

Considering also that it has been necessary for us to take up 
questions beyond the ordinary sphere of a medical practitioner, 
sometimes of a philosophical, technical and physical nature, it is 
to be expected that certain imperfections will be found. But, 
whatever may be the opinion of the reader, he will not deny that 
none should fail to derive some benefit from the numerous hints 
we have given for the preservation of health and prolongation of 
life. If by reason of our advice we succeed in saving but a single 
human life from a premature grave, our aim will have been 

attained. 

DR. ARNOLD LORAND. 



CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER I. PAQE 
ON THE APPEARANCE OF SYMPTOMS OF OLD AGE IN YOUNG PERSONS 1 

CHAPTER II. 

ON THE AGENCIES WHICH GOVERN OUR EXTERNAL APPEARANCE AND THE 
NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES 11 

CHAPTER III. 

ON THE AGENCIES WHICH GOVERN IMMUNITY AGAINST INFECTIONS AND 
INTOXICATIONS THE ORIGIN OF FEVER 21 

CHAPTER IV. 

ON THE AGENCIES THAT GOVERN THE CONDITION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 
AND MENTALITY 35 

CHAPTER V. 

ON THE INFLUENCE OF THE SEXUAL GLANDS UPON VITALITY AND LONG 
LIFE 45 

CHAPTER VI. 
ON HEREDITY AND LONGEVITY 55 

CHAPTER VII. 

ON MEANS WHICH CAN HELP us TO DETERMINE THE PROBABLE DURATION 
OF LIFE 64 

CHAPTER VIII. 
ON THE CAUSATION OF OLD AGE 90 

CHAPTER IX. 

THE RATIONAL PREVENTION OF PREMATURE OLD AGE AND THE TREATMENT 
OF OLD AGE ' 114 

(ix) 



Contents. 



CHAPTER X. PAGE 

THE DESTRUCTION AND ELIMINATION OF Toxic PRODUCTS FROM THE BODY 
AND HYGIENIC MEASURES FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THESE FUNCTIONS. 134 

CHAPTER XI. 

ON THE DESTRUCTION OF POISONOUS PRODUCTS THROUGH THE THYROID 
AND PARATHYROID GLANDS 138 

CHAPTER XII. 
HYGIENE OF THE THYROID GLAND 145 

CHAPTER XIII. 

THE DESTRUCTION OF Toxic PRODUCTS BY THE LIVER AND THE IMPROVE- 
MENT OF ITS PROTECTIVE FUNCTIONS 149 

CHAPTER XIV. 
THE HYGIENE OF THE LIVER 155 

CHAPTER XV. 
ON THE DESTRUCTION OF Toxic PRODUCTS BY THE ADRENALS 159 

CHAPTER XVI 

HYGIENE OF THE ADRENALS AND OF THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM A FEW 
REMARKS ON THE CAUSE, PREVENTION, AND TREATMENT OF ARTERIO- 
SCLEROSIS 164 

CHAPTER XVII. 

THE ELIMINATION OF Toxic PRODUCTS THROUGH THE INTESTINES AND THE 
IMPROVEMENT OF THIS FUNCTION 170 

CHAPTER XVIII. 
ON THE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF HABITUAL CONSTIPATION 175 

CHAPTER XIX. 
HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES 182 

CHAPTER XX. 

HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES A FEW REMARKS ON THE CAUSE AND PRE- 
VENTION OF APPENDICITIS 192 

CHAPTER XXI. 
ON THE ELIMINATION OF Toxic PRODUCTS THROUGH THE KIDNEYS 197 



Contents. \\ 



CHAPTER XXII. PAGE 

HYGIENE OF THE KIDNEYS, AND THE PREVENTION OF RENAL DISEASE ...... 203 

CHAPTER XXIII. 
ON THE ELIMINATION OF Toxic PRODUCTS THROUGH THE SKIN .......... 209 

CHAPTER XXIV. 
THE HYGIENE OF THE SKIN AIR BATHS ............................... 2l 



CHAPTER XXV. 
ON RATIONAL CLOTHING ............................................... 219 

CHAPTER XXVI. 

IMPROVED HYGIENE OF THE SKIN AND KIDNEYS THROUGH BATHING FOOT- 
BATHS ............................................................ 231 

CHAPTER XXVII. 
HYGIENE OF THE SKIN AND KIDNEYS BY MEANS OF PERSPIRATION ........ 237 

CHAPTER XXVIII. 

ON EXERCISE, SWEDISH GYMNASTICS MASSAGE SPORT, AND WALKING 
AND RUNNING EXERCISE ........................................... 244 

CHAPTER XXIX. 
A FEW REMARKS ON COLD FEET THEIR CAUSE AND TREATMENT ......... 252 

CHAPTER XXX. 
ON THE BENEFITS OF SUNLIGHT ..................... . ................. 255 

CHAPTER XXXI. 

ON THE ADVANTAGES OF AN OPEN AIR LIFE AND OF BREATHING EXER- 
CISES ............................................................. 262 

CHAPTER XXXII. 
ON THE DANGERS OF LIVING IN CONFINED AND ILL VENTILATED QUARTERS. 271 

CHAPTER XXXIII. 

HYGIENE OF ARTIFICIAL HEATING THE DANGERS OF HEAT BY STEAM AND 
A FEW HINTS ABOUT THEIR PREVENTION ............................ 275 

CHAPTER XXXIV. 
FOOD HYGIENE GENERAL REMARKS ....................... '. ............ 280 



xii Contents. 



CHAPTER XXXV. PAGE 

ON PROTEID FOOD, ANIMAL FOOD, MEAT, FISH, EGGS, MILK, ETC 294 

CHAPTER XXXVI. 

ON CARBOHYDRATES AND FATS, AND THE GREAT ADVANTAGES OF VEGE- 
TABLES AND FRUIT 301 

CHAPTER XXXVII. 
ON THE ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF A VEGETARIAN DIET 309 

CHAPTER XXXVIII. 

ON THE DANGERS OF A Too ABUNDANT MEAT DIET A FEW HINTS ON 
THE DIETETICS OF MEAT 317 

CHAPTER XXXIX. 

ON THE GREAT ADVANTAGES OF MUCH MILK IN THE DIET FOR THE PRE- 
VENTION AND TREATMENT OF OLD AGE 325 

CHAPTER XL. 

ON BLOOD AS AN ARTICLE OF FOOD CONTAINING IRON AND ANIMAL EX- 
TRACTS SAUSAGES AND BLOOD PUDDINGS 333 

CHAPTER XLI. 

SOME REMARKS ON THE HYGIENE OF EATING How TO OBTAIN AN APPE- 
TITE ON MASTICATION 339 

CHAPTER XLII. 

ON THE USES OF SMALL DOSES, AND THE DELETERIOUS ACTION OF LARGE 
QUANTITIES OF ALCOHOL 347 

CHAPTER XLIII. 
SOME REMARKS ON THE CAUSES AND PREVENTION OF THE ALCOHOL HABIT. 356 

CHAPTER XLIV. 

ON OTHER STIMULANTS TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, TOBACCO: THEIR MERITS 
AND DISADVANTAGES 362 

CHAPTER XLV. 

ON SLEEP, AND ITS IMPORTANCE IN RIDDING THE BODY OF Toxic PRODUCTS. 368 



Contents. xiii 



CHAPTER XLVI. PAGE 

ON- THE CAUSATION OF SLEEP, SLEEPINESS, AND INSOMNIA 372 

CHAPTER XLVII. 
HYGIENE OF SLESP PREVENTION OF INSOMNIA 377 

CHAPTER XLVIII. 
THE TREATMENT OF SLEEPINESS AND INSOMNIA 383 

CHAPTER XLIX. 

HYGIENE OF THE SEXUAL GLANDS THE DANGERS OF SEXUAL OVERACTIVITY 
AND OF TOTAL SEXUAL ABSTINENCE 389 

CHAPTER L. 
ON MARRIED LIFE AS AN IMPORTANT MEANS FOR PROLONGING LIFE 400 

CHAPTER LI. 
HYGIENE OF THE MIND EMOTIONS AND WORRY AS CAUSES OF OLD AGE... 404 

CHAPTER LII. 

HYGIENE OF THE MIND RELIGIOUS BELIEF AS A MEANS OF PROLONGING 
LIFE 414 

CHAPTER LIII. 
DISEASE CONSIDERED AS A SELF-DEFENCE OF NATURE 419 

CHAPTER LIV. 
HYGIENE OF THE MIND ADVICE TO BRAIN WORKERS 423 

CHAPTER LV. 

ON THE PREVENTION OF PREMATURE OLD ACE, AND THE TREATMENT OF OLD 
AGE, THROUGH CERTAIN DRUGS: ARSENIC, IRON, AND IODIDES 426 

CHAPTER LVI. 

ON THE PREVENTION OF PREMATURE OLD AGE AND ON THE TREATMENT OF 
OLD AGE BY ANIMAL EXTRACTS 434 



xiv Contents. 



CHAPTER LV1I. PAGE 
A FEW HINTS ON YOUTHFUL APPEARANCE 449 

CHAPTER LVIII. 

THE "TWELVE COMMANDMENTS" FOR THE PRESERVATION OF YOUTH, AND 
THE ATTAINMENT OF A GREEN OLD AGE 455 

GLOSSARY 459 

INDEX 467 



SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT 
To THE READERS OF "OLD AGE DEFERRED.' 



WE have just recently received the manuscript 
for the following introductory pages, which 
are intended as a message direct to the 
American people by Dr. Lorand. Their importance 
justifies a careful reading. 

Although, in accordance with his duty as a citizen 
of Austria, Dr. Lorand has had to practically abandon 
his private practice, and devote his energies and his 
abilities to the service of his country in the time of 
trial, he has, nevertheless, been so situated as to have 
a pretty intimate knowledge of American affairs. He 
has been especially grieved and shocked to learn of 
so- many, sudden, untimely, and in his judgment, 
unnecessary deaths among prominent Americans since 
the great war began. Counting as he did, a great 
number of friends, not only among American physi- 
cians, but among American tourists, and knowing, as 
he does, so intimately, the peculiar physical character- 
istics of the high-grade American citizen, he is 
appalled at the wastage of valuable lives in a country 
teeming with prosperity and incidental home comforts. 

The following introduction is designed as a 
warning to high-pressure Americans that by a little 
care and the exercise of reasonable judgment a large 
number of these premature deaths may be prevented. 

Even if you were to read no- further, the careful 
perusal of this introduction is well worth while, as 
it deals directly with the most important personal 

problems, 

THE PUBLISHERS. 

(xv) 



PREMATURE OLD LOOKS: 

THEIR PREVENTION AND TREATMENT. 



IN the previous editions of this book I have 
attributed premature old age to the degeneration 
of certain glands of our body, such as the thyroid 
gland and the ovaries. It is my intention now to 
show, that precocious old looks can often be caused 
by certain faulty habits; thus for instance by not 
drinking daily a sufficient amount of liquids. There 
are many women, who be it by an unjustified fear of 
obesity, or for other reasons, scarcely drink any 
liquids except possibly a cup of tea or coffee for break- 
fast. They neither drink with their meals nor much 
at other times. In such cases the tissues of the face 
will lack the necessary amount of fluids to which is 
due, mainly, the roundness and fullness of the cheeks 
which we so much admire in the fresh faces of young 
girls and children. In consequence the face will 
appear lean and haggard, the skin shrivelled and 
folded, and lines and wrinkles will appear already in 
the faces of young women. Besides, as the sufficient 
amount of fluids will be wanting, the toxic products 
formed daily in> our bodies is not washed out through 
those natural channels, the kidneys and the intestines, 
but will take their way through the skin, and erup- 
tions and pimples will develop, much to the damage of 
the complexion. An obstinate constipation will be 
another consequence, which, giving to the skin of the 
face a dirty yellow-brown hue, naturally contributes 
to produce an old appearance of the face. More and 

(xvii) 



XV111 



Water Drinking with Meals. 



more, ami I convinced that a generous purging, as for 
instance by certain mineral waters, is a most effica- 
cious remedy to prevent old looks and at any rate to 
improve them!. Drugs as a general rule are far less 
wholesome and effective for this purpose. 

By not drinking sufficiently, such substances as, for 
example, uric acid, cannot be washed out and their 
retention will cause a serious, damage to health, 
facilitating the origin of arteriosclerosis, which very 
frequently is associated with such conditions. Persons 
suffering from uric acid present frequently an older 
aspect than corresponds to their years and the falling 
out of the hair, or the appearance of gray hair, in 
early years, is often the case with them. 

It is erroneous to think that water produces fat- 
ness. If this were the case we would advise the poor 
people to drink plenty of water that costs nothing, to 
get fat. It is not water that makes 'fat, but water 
that is taken with the meals, together with copious 
food, thus aiding the absorption and assimilation of 
the same. To avoid obesity after rich food it is there- 
fore advisable not to drink with the meals, but at other 
times. Copious food must be avoided, especially fat, 
starchy food and sweets. A diet consisting of plenty 
of meat, fats, and above all milk and butter and 
sweets, is the surest road to obesity. They must be 
avoided and the preference given to a diet of little 
meat, green vegetables and fruits. For further de- 
tails of such a diet I must refer to the chapter, 'The 
Treatment of Obesity," in my book, "Health and 
Longevity through Rational Diet," publishers, F. A. 
Davis Co., Philadelphia, I must emphasize the neces- 



Injuries Due to Obesity Cure. 



xix 



sity of great prudence in reducing cures, for, as I 
know from my practice in Carlsbad, there is scarcely 
anything, unless a serious disease, that can produce 
so rapidly the appearance* of age in young persons 
and the more in riper years, than imprudent and 
reckless obesity cures, causing wrinkles and the 
hanging and sunken cheeks. 

I must certainly blame the eagerness of many 
ladies to transform their fresh, round and elastic 
forms into lean and skinny ones, thinking that thus 
they will look younger. No; I am certain that many 
young women look considerably older after these 
atrocious and imprudent diet-cures. Dieting is more 
permissible with older persons, if not exceeding cer- 
tain limits; but young women and girls I would 
strongly advise to eat hearty meals of mixed food, 
for, as I also show in my above-mentioned book on 
Diet, we are introducing in our systems very valuable 
substances, which are in reality useful remedies with 
certain^ articles of food. Most important among 4 these 
are fresh milk (uncooked), numerous fruits, certain 
kinds of animal food, which all contain considerable 
quantities of important mineral salts, indispensable 
to our well-being, and to the freshness and elasticity 
of mind and body. Besides these salts and valuable 
ferments these articles of food contain also a most 
important substance, called vitamines, which, as its 
name shows, conveys a kind of vitality to the tissues. 
It is indispensable to the well-being of the nervous 
system and also of the muscles, and thus also to the 
most important muscle of the body, the heart. The 
vitamines are largely represented in the outer cover- 



XX 



Vitamines. 



ings of the rice, of the corn, and also in eggs, 
potatoes, etc. In fine white bread there is scarcely 
any, but there is far more in the brown bread con- 
taining all parts of the grain. Milk also contains 
them, but mainly fresh, uncooked milk ; strong cooking 
destroys the vitamines in the plants and the animal 
food, and besides such cooking, asi I show in the 
chapter on "Rational Cooking" of my book on 
Rational Diet, also destroys other valuable ferments 
of great importance for our body. It is certain that 
our looks, the beauty and size of the human body and 
of animals, and even the color of the feathers of the 
birds, depend very much, as I show in the same book, 
on the wise selection of the food which we eat. Not 
only in young growing persons, but also in the adult 
and even in aged persons. 

Of the different faulty habits there is probably 
none that would produce so rapidly the premature 
appearance of old age in young women as smoking. 

THE DANGERS OF SMOKING IN WOMEN. 

If excessive smoking is deleterious to man, in the 
woman moderate smoking may cause seriojus altera- 
tions. We must not forget that the tissues of women 
are more delicate and tender than those of men, and 
especially young women can in this respect be put 
in the same class with children. The woman is not 
so wjsll protected against the influence of poisons 
such as nicotine as the man, for in her some of those 
glands whose duty is to destroy such poisons, as, for 
instance, the thyroid, are kept in much greater activity 
on account of the frequent changes in the ovaries 



Effects of Smoking. 



xxi 



with each! menstruation, pregnancy, the climacteric, 
etc., and with their consequent repercussion upon the 
thyroid gland, with which the ovaries are closely 
related. If to this comes such extra work by the daily 
introduction of poisonous substances, although even 
in small quantities, the gland may the more readily 
lose its efficiency. After my own observations which 
I made upon my patients in Carlsbad coming from 
eastern countries in Europe, I know that smoking 
women present a much older aspect, if they have in- 
dulged in this habit to a large extent and for years. 
They soon fade, the cheeks are pale, as a rule, and 
sunk in. The general nutrition suffers, there is loss 
of appetite, frequently a catarrh of the stomach and 
very often pains in the stomach; indeed there is often 
neurasthenia with sleeplessness. With more exces- 
sive smoking there will appear all the symptoms 
which are common to the chronic nicotine poisoning 
of men. 

I am not prepared to maintain that, after the din- 
ner, a cigarette or sometimes two are dangerous to 
adult women. The aspect of a lady smoking a 
cigarette after dinner surely cannot be called attract- 
ive, and it certainly does hurt the aesthetic feelings of 
a normal man to) see a woman smoking one big cigar 
after another. It looks too masculine in a woman, 
as I have observed in a ladies' club in Copenhagen, 
where most of the women sat with big cigars in their 
mouths. Such habits take away all charm even from 
the finest looking women, and as a normal woman, is 
attracted by all that is manly in man and is repelled 
by an effeminate man, we men dislike masculine 



XX11 



Cosmetic Hints. 



women, just as we dislike a woman having a mustache 
and whiskers. If I were a married man, I know I 
would not like to kiss my wife if she strongly smelled 
of tobacco, just as it would be repulsive to kiss a man ; 
the smell of strong tobacco creating involuntarily the 
sensation of associating with a man. Until recently 
women have presented far less frequently the symp- 
toms of arteriosclerosis than men, excessive smoking 
being rare with them. But as the effects of smoking 
are more deleterious to them, naturally arterio- 
sclerosis will arise much sooner in them, and as 
through the hardening of the arteries the nutrition qf 
the tissues suffer, the nourishing blood not rendering 
them in sufficient amount necessarily such persons 
will begin to look old at a comparatively early period 
of life. 

A FEW COSMETIC HINTS FOR THE REMEDYING 
OF OLD LOOKS. 

In the previous editions of this book I have shown 
that it is possible to improve old looks through 
hygienic measures, the use of the extracts of certain 
glands, like the thyroid and ovaries and also by the 
employment of certain drugs like arsenic and the 
preparations of iodine. I would like to add now a 
few cosmetic hints against old looks some of which 
I had already published a few years ago, as a col- 
laborator to the handbook of cosmetics of the derma- 
tologist, Prof. M. Joseph, of Berlin (M. Joseph, 
Handbuch der Kosmetik, Leipzig, 1912). 

In persons of certain age and also in younger 
persons with a fading expression of the face and be- 



Dangers of Facial Massage. 



xxiu 



ginning wrinkles I have found, as efficacious in pro- 
ducing an immediate improvement, the gentle ap- 
plication to the face of any kind of fats of pure quality 
and the rubbing thereon of some reliable preparation 
of white powder. The powder should afterward be 
wiped off very carefully. It should not be put on in 
thick layers, for then, as after the use of pastes and 
paints in general, lines may be created where they are 
not yet present and lines already existing may be hol- 
lowed out to veritable wrinkles. No powder should 
be visible on the face. The object is to add to faces 
with dry skin the best variety of fat with reference 
to its animal origin so as 1 to make up for the wanting 
secretion of the sebaceous glands and to replace, if 
possible to a certain' extent, the fat wanting in the 
tissues. All kinds of massaging of the skin should 
be avoided ; only a gentle rubbing is allowed. In fact, 
I consider massage as deleterious to the face, except it 
is done by a qualified masseur who* is an expert in this 
kind of massage with a correct anatomical knowledge 
of the muscles of the face and of the direction they are 
running. Special care must be taken that the massage 
of the face should never be done with fats, as this 
would promote the formation of lines and wrinkles 
and even of deep ones, if done unskillf ully. The 
massage of the face should consist in gentle strokings 
of the face with the end of the fingers and, always 
following the direction of the muscles. 

The powders used should be of the best possible 
quality. Before all they should not contain any 
metallic salts and especially not lead. Unhappily 
some of the very best powders are prepared with it, as 



XXIV 



Treatment for Fading Faces. 



lead gives to the powders a specially white and 
attractive aspect. But I should like to bring home 
to the ladies the fact, that these powders are the most 
apt, especially in persons who perspire easily, to create 
lines and wrinkles and to give to young faces in a 
short time an old appearance. 

The best powders I consider those which consist 
of fine rice-powder, amylum, or talcum, and they pro- 
duce the best effect, if they are not visible on the face. 
I have often seen the finest complexions ruined by the 
frequent usage of thick powders, pastes, and paints. 
The above-mentioned procedure of rubbing in fats 
and thereupon some of the finest hygienic powders 
should only be done every other day. To give to 
fading faces a certain tonicity I recommend the use 
of alcohol, diluted with three times as much water, 
which, in the same manner as diluted vinegar, will 
also improve the complexion. I have found that a 
very strongly diluted solution of the extract of the 
suprarenal glands has also a marked effect in toning 
up the muscles of the face, if rubbed in gently. Only 
small quantities of the diluted solution should be used 
for this purpose. 

As gray hairs create, even in persons still young, 
an elderly appearance, it might appear to their advan- 
tage to color them. It is best to use such, coloring only 
in regions of small extent rather than in a general 
way. As the most inoffensive coloring of gray hair 
among dark hair, I would consider the preparations 
containing nitrate of silver. Those which contain lead 
or copper should be condemned. 



A rteriosclerosis. 



XXV 



After all the best weapon against old looks is a 
hygienic life by which we can best avoid the develop- 
ment of a condition which already at an early age 
gives an old aspect to the tissues, i.e., of arterio- 
sclerosis, or hardening of the arteries. 

RAPID AND EARLY DEATH THROUGH ARTERIO- 
SCLEROSIS AND ITS PREVENTION. 

For most arteriosclerotic persons there can be only 
little hope to live up to a green old age, to become 80 
or 90 years old or even to pass on to still higher years. 
But there are exceptions not so very seldom, and it 
gives comfort to my patients suffering from this 
disease and apprehension of the future, when I tell 
them that nearly all the brothers and sisters of both 
my parents suffered from this disease for many years, 
which did not prevent them from attaining ages vary- 
ing between 80 and 96 years and more. My father 
ever after his forty-fifth year suffered from attacks 
of asthma. As a child I was often awakened through 
his nightly asthmas, but in spite of many symptoms -of 
arteriosclerosis he lived to a great age. 

One of my aunts is still living, not very far from 
100 years old, although suffering in a high degree 
from arteriosclerosis for many years. Such pro- 
tracted cases generally happen in families of longevity 
and they are only due to, as a rule, regular habits, al- 
though it is true that my father was a great smoker 
in his younger years and even in his last years enjoyed 
one or two light cigars daily. 

Such long survivals constitute, however, a great 
exception in arteriosclerosis, and it usually happens 



xxvi How Angina Occurs. 

only in cases where there are no symptoms of 
that most dreaded form of arteriosclerosis, i.e., the 
sclerosis of the coronary arteries of the heart. These 
arteries are probably the most important ones of our 
body, for they provide the muscles of the heart with 
the nourishing blood without which they could not 
do their work. It is the sclerosis the hardening of 
these arteries which, causing an obstacle to the passage 
of the blood, is the most frequent cause of rapid death 
in arteriosclerosis, often in comparatively young 
people. It is a sad fact, that such a condition, a.s so 
often is the case with arteriosclerosis, can exist with- 
out exhibiting any marked symptoms of it being 
present. A very frequent symptom of sclerosis of the 
coronary arteries is attacks of genuine angina pectoris 
(stenocardia), to be distinguished from the pseudo- 
attacks of angina pectoris of neurasthenic persons. 
In such attacks there are strong radiating pains in 
the heart region and a feeling of great anxiety, of 
utter annihilation, and of instantaneous death; and 
indeed not so seldomi such attacks may terminate in 
death. These attacks may be considered as a warn- 
ing of nature that such persons stand on the verge of 
a precipice and thus urging them to the greatest pre- 
cautions to avoid anything that may bring about such 
an attack. From my own observations, rapidly fatal 
attacks of angina pectoris in such cases of arterio- 
sclerosis happen frequently after a heavy dinner. The 
stomach being distended, the diaphragm is* pushed 
upward and thus impeding the movements of the 
heart, which has not sufficient space for the play of its 
muscles. Such a condition may also be often caused 



Foods to Avoid. 



xxvn 



by the ingestion of dishes causing flatulence. In con- 
sequence heavy dinners and flatulent foodstuffs must 
carefully be avoided, and I declare any person who 
presents attacks of genuine angina pectoris as a de- 
termined suicide if he continues to indulge in them. 
There should be taken 5 small meals a day, so as to 
avoid the keen appetite which results in overloading 
the stomach. Foodstuffs causing flatulence such as 
cabbage, fried potatoes, etc., should, above all, be 
avoided. Food that is rich in cellulose (wood fiber) 
is strictly forbidden in such cases. For further de- 
tails on food producing flatulence I must refer to my 
above-mentioned diet book, which contains a special 
chapter on the best food in flatulency and also a list 
on the amount of cellulose (wood fiber) in different 
articles) of food. For the treatment by drugs refer to 
the chapter of this book on arteriosclerosis. Besides 
moderate habits, including the use of very light 
cigars in the smallest possible quantity (if smoking 
cannot be given up entirely), overexcitement of any 
kind, especially sexual, as also overexertions (hill 
climbing), must strictly be avoided. Transgression 
of these commands, especially hill climbing, may 
sometimes mean instantaneous death in advanced 
cases. Persons suffering from coronary sclerosis with 
attacks of angina pectoris will do very well to give 
up their positions if heads of companies with great 
responsibilities and heavy burdens resting upon their 
shoulders, as any stormy shareholder meeting may 
prove fatal to> them. As already said it is a sad fact, 
that persons may suffer from coronary sclerosis with- 
out even knowing it, as there are also thousands of 



xxviii Examination by a Doctor. 

victims of arteriosclerosis who are utterly ignorant of 
their condition, as this disease often presents no 
marked symptoms. I must deplore that most stupid 
habit of seeking for medical aid only when the 
ravages of disease have gone so far that reparation is 
impossible. How often do people forget the wise 
English proverb: "An ounce of prevention is worth 
a pound of cure." Just the same as; children, are sent 
every three months to the dentist to see if any of the 
teeth present may be decaying in order to save them, 
people already before feeling ill ought to at least once 
a year be examined thoroughly by a doctor to see if 
anything is wrong in the human machinery. I feel 
certain that in such a case many thousands of per- 
sons, instead of lying in their dark, cold graves below 
the earth, could still tread the soil enjoying 4 sunshine 
and the scent of the flowers. There is no doubt that 
arteriosclerosis and especially coronary sclerosis could 
be avoided in many cases, through such an examina- 
tion, for the onset of arteriosclerosis is generally in- 
sidious and slow, especially if it develops in the 
younger years, when due to syphilis, and thus, if in 
time recognized, it could be cured. But even without 
the syphilitic infection, cases in young persons are 
more frequent than we think. 

It is to the present terrible war, raging and 
destroying so many lives, that we owe the observation 
made by many of the military doctors that a goodly 
number of young soldiers present symptoms of arterio- 
sclerosis, many of them having never suffered from 
syphilis. Often it is but a slight elevation of the 



Prevention of Apoplexy. 



XXIX 



blood-pressure, but which, if persistent, may indicate 
a beginning arteriosclerosis. 

THE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF HIGH BLOOD- 
PRESSURE AND THE PREVENTION OF APOPLEXY. 

Apoplexy is the consequence of, a condition, which 
may be considered as the highest degree of a scale 
whose lowest step is often a slight elevation of the 
blood-pressure, when in a younger person. Thus, if 
before the 45-70 year period the blood-pressure is 
somewhat elevated and remains so for a certain length 
of time, we must, if there are no special reasons for 
this elevation, for instance, kidney trouble, be sus- 
picions of arteriosclerosis. It is true, that there are 
cases of this disease without a high blood-pressure, 
but if we find, besides considerably elevated blood- 
pressure, traces of albumin in the urine and also renal 
elements, a swelled liver and an accentuated second 
sound at the aorta, there cannot be much doubt that 
we have probably to do with arteriosclerosis. A high 
blood-pressure can most frequently be caused through 
difficulties in the circulation of the kidneys; there- 
fore in each such case the urine must carefully be 
examined. By improving the circulation through the 
kidneys we can also influence favorably the blood- 
pressure. Certain drugs producing a great flow of 
urine have indeed given good results in high blood- 
pressure, like, for instance, diuretin in some cases. I 
ami, however, averse to the use of drugs if there are 
more natural remedies, and so I would advise the use 
of a quite harmless one like the juice of lemons. It 
is very diuretic and, as I have observed, there are also 



xxx Advantages of Purgative Waters 

cases of chronic inflammatory conditions of the kid- 
neys which are very favorably influenced through a 
treatment by lemons, in the same way as also gout and 
the uric acid ailments in general. I have found that 
with lemon-juice given in mineral water we obtain 
still better results if a little glycerin is added. Be- 
sides lemon-juice the juice of certain other fruits like 
grapefruit, oranges, and grapes can also give good 
results. Besides a good diuresis, a thorough cleaning 
of the intestines is desirable, high blood-pressure often 
being caused by habitual constipation with stagnation 
of the intestinal contents and subsequent flatulence. 
I must repeat with emphasis again that daily bowel 
movements do not prove at all a clean intestine fol- 
lowing a good evacuation, and I am sure that the 
good results obtained in the treatment of arterio- 
sclerosis in certain spas, like Carlsbad, Marienbad, 
and Kissingen, are not so much due to the action of 
these waters upon arteriosclerosis, but simply to their 
eminently purging action. Neither of these springs 
has a direct effect upon arteriosclerosis, but besides 
the dietetic advantages of the installation of these 
spas, the waters from their springs evacuate thor- 
oughly the intestines, ridding them of toxic products 
most deleterious to the arteries, and at the same time 
facilitating in a powerful way the circulation of the 
blood through the abdomen with its most wholesome 
repercussion upon the whole general circulation. A 
thorough intestinal evacuation can relieve a high 
blood-pressure nearly the same way as an extensive 
venesection. A good perspiration can also give good 
effects; however, to produce it there would be neces- 



Electric Light Baths. 



XXXI 



sary to take hot- water or air bath, which may prove 
most deleterious. There are means, however, to avoid 
this for, as I know it from my own experiences, it is 
possible to have a profuse perspiration without the 
sensation of great heat and a red head through ap- 
plication of electric light bath with blue light. In 
this blue light bath, studying its action, I have myself 
obtained, after about twenty minutes' time, the 
desired effect without the depressive feeling* afterward 
as so often is the case with the usual steam bath. 
These baths are the more indicated in cases of a 
nervous heart. 

There are also different drugs, which may in many 
cases prove, useful : thus, a French preparation, pre- 
pared from the viscus kinds called guipsin, then 
diuretin prepared by different concerns. Very valu- 
able are the nitrate preparations, especially in cases 
with coronary sclerosis, also- vasotonin, etc. But from 
my own experiences I give in many cases the prefer- 
ence to preparations of iodine. But I have found that 
iodine should not be giver* in too small doses and that 
they must also be taken for a certain length of time. 
Besides iodine I have found, as most efficacious in cases 
with very high blood-pressure, the application of elec- 
tric currents after the system of D'Arsonval (arson- 
valization). In each case of several patients I have 
seen the dropping of the blood-pressure to the normal. 
As soon as we find a high blood-pressure in a pa- 
tient we must do our best to diminish it, for if we 
allow it to become persistent the high blood-pressure 
will produce a loss of the elasticity of the walls of 
the blood-vessels, there will arise pathological altera- 



XXX11 



Effects of Mental Exertions. 



tions and arteriosclerosis may easily establish itself. 
Aided by persistent, very high blood-pressure the 
degeneration of the walls of the blood-vessels may in 
the long run go so far that a destruction of their 
tissues can arise. Then by any sudden great elevation 
of the blood-pressure it may come to a rupture of th'e 
vessel, to apoplexy. If such a thing happens to a 
blood-vessel of the brain, then such vital parts of the 
brain may be detsroyed that sudden death will follow. 
But in many cases, happily, other less important parts 
are affected, without involving death, and then fol- 
lows lameness of those regions of the body which are 
provided with nerves coming or going to these parts. 
Sclerosis and degeneration o<f arteries happen most 
frequently in parts of the body where the circulation 
is the most copious by hyperfunction of these parts; 
thus in the legs of country people walking and climb- 
ing much (Romberg). 

Mental exertions produce a great afflux of blood 
toward the brain each time, with deep thinking more 
blood arrives toi the brain and it is therefore not sur- 
prising, as I show in my book on "Human Intellect 
and its Improvement through Hygienic and Thera- 
peutic Measures." Such an appalling number of 
prominent brain-workers, men of science and of busi- 
ness, are suffering from hardening of the brain-vessels 
and are struck by apoplexy of the brain, sometimes 
even at early ages, before or shortly after their fiftieth 
year. Indeed a vast majority of the great men of 
science and business are thus afflicted, as I show in 
this book, apoplexy being very frequent amongst 
them. It is reckless overwork, unhygienic meth- 



Arteriosclerosis of the Brain. 



XXXlll 



ods of mental work that may with surety produce a 
hardening of the arteries of the brain. It would 
exceed the short space allowed to this chapter if I 
should enter here upon the hygienics of; mental work, 
which I am treating in several chapters of my book 
on the "Human Intellect," but it will suffice here to 
emphasize the necessity of interpolating resting days 
between days of mental overexert ion. It would be 
too much for me to demand that a successful man of 
business retire entirely from his affairs, but what he 
could do, especially if the head of the business, is to 
leave the city on Saturday for the country, with the 
custom of walking about in the fresh air, returning 
Monday with fresh strength; and, further, to avoid 
anything that produces high blood-pressure, hill 
climbing, hot or cold drinks, strong coffee, tea, and 
above all tobacco, which is one of the very surest 
means to increase the blood-pressure. There is no 
condition where smoking can produce such fatal 
effects as in arteriosclerosis, and especially if the 
arteries of the brain, as so often in bra in- workers, are 
affected. In inveterate smokers, perhaps a few de- 
nicotinized cigarettes or cigars may be allowed. In 
place of regular coffee or tea, coffee without caffeine 
and the Brazilian tea, mate, whose properties I have 
described in my book on Rational Diet, may be allowed, 
but also not in indiscriminate quantities. If too much 
of them is taken, they may prove not less harmful, 
therefore also caffeine-free coffee and mate should be 
taken with wise moderation. Against the troublesome 
symptoms of arteriosclerosis of the brain like dizzi- 
ness, loss of memory, difficulty of reasoning, head- 



XXXIV 



B rain Hygiene. 



aches, feeling of pressure upon the brain, etc., I have 
seen, as I described in special chapters of my book 
"The Human Intellect," very good results through 
the combined use of preparations of iodine and ex- 
tracts of the thyroid gland. The dizziness disap- 
peared and also the headaches, the memory got much 
better and also the reasoning power. These effects 
were, however, obtained in cases not too advanced. 
As a preventive against arteriosclerosis of the brain 
and as a remedy against headaches and feeling of 
pressure in the head I am recommending snuffing in 
my book on Intellect, showing that through its use the 
circulation of the congested brain is much relieved. 
In confirmed cases of arteriosclerosis of the brain, 
however, snuffing should be avoided, for it may have 
fatal results. Excessive snuffing is also deleterious to 
healthy men, especially when tobacco is used. To 
prevent apoplexy the hygienic advice we have given 
in the beginning of this chapter to avoid high blood- 
pressure must strictly be followed. I should like to 
add to them hot foot-baths for about five minutes, to 
which mustard powder could be added. There should 
also be a special care for a wise diet, avoiding con- 
stipation; of meat only very little should be taken, 
fish should be preferred, and of meat only chicken 
and veal allowed. The best food against arterio- 
sclerosis and heart trouble consists of a milk and egg 
diet, with vegetables and fruit, to which fish and cheese 
may be added. As a most valuable food for over- 
work of the heart and the general circulation, I 
recommend honey, whose merits I show in next 
chapter. 



Useful Foods. 



XXXV 



THE BEST FOOD FOR A FAILING HEART. 

There is one muscle in our body that never takes 
a rest. It never ceases to work, either day or night, 
and the better for us, for if it should stop it would 
mean the end of life. This muscle is the heart. Of 
course we must feed well such a hard-working organ, 
and have special care to select such a food that! is the 
most genial for it and can the best promote its activity. 
As the heart is a muscle we must give the food that 
is best indicated for muscular activity. Observations 
have shown that the muscles of our body are doing 
their work at the expense of a certain sweet stuff 
(glycogen) contained in them. Experiments also 
prove this, for it has been found that the heart of 
animals removed from the body will survive for days 
the death of their owner if kept in a salt solution, with 
grape- or fruit- sugar added. The addition of certain 
mineral salts like lime and carbonate of sodium is 
also able to prolong the survival of the cut-out heart 
of dead animals. So there can be no doubt that the 
same elements must also prove useful to the heart of 
the living, as is indeed the case. 

As! I have shown in my diet book the ingestion of 
sweets promotes muscular activity and fatigues from 
bodily exertion are better borne. And this also holds 
good for our most important muscle the heart. I have 
seen in my heart patients very good results through 
the addition of a generous amount of sweets to their 
ordinary diet. On the other hand, I have, as a rule, 
observed a weak activity of the heart with my patients 



XXXVI 



Honey for the* Weak Heart. 



in Carlsbad suffering from the graver farms of 
diabetes who were kept on a diet strictly excluding 
sweets and starchy food in general. Indeed a weak 
heart is most frequent in severe diabetes, as in such a 
condition the sugar ingested cannot be utilized and 
entirely eliminated in the urine. For this reason I 
consider it unwise to place severe cases of diabetes on 
a strict diet and I recommend to them the use of 
fruit sugar (levulose), which is often well utilized 
and especially in a case of diabetes with heart-failure 
I like to do this. Such persons should never be 
strongly dieted. As the best food for the heart I 
recommend honey on the base of the above-mentioned 
observations. Honey is easily digested and assimi- 
lated; it is the best sweet food, as it does not cause 
flatulence and can even prevent it, to a certain extent 
promoting the activity of the bowels. It can easily 
be added to the 5 meals a day I recommend in cases 
of arteriosclerosis and of weak heart. As it would 
be unwise to leave such a hard-working organ as the 
heart without any food over the long hours of the 
night, I recommend heart patients to take before 
going to bed a glass of water with honey and lemon- 
juice in it and also to take it when awaking at night 
(honey dissolves in warm: water). 

Before and after muscular exertion honey should 
be given in a generous dose; no coachman would 
allow his horses to run for hours without giving them 
food at the resting intervals. Only man is so un- 
reasonable as to undertake heavy exertions often with 
an empty stomach. No wonder that so many sports- 
men get a weak heart simply for just such a reason. 



Lime Foods. 



xxxvn 



The use of sugar cannot well replace honey. In the 
same amount sugar is chemically irritating to the 
stomach. At any rate the preference should be given 
to cane-sugar; sugar of beet-root is chemically pure, 
although through modern civilization it is, unhappily, 
deprived of the important mineral salts the beet-root 
contains, and it has also been shown that through the 
use of chemically pure sugar the body loses in lime, 
which is eliminated in larger quantities. If honey is 
alone taken in larger dose it is better borne if water 
is drunk afterward. Besides honey I like to recomr 
mend grapes, as containing much sugar and also valu- 
able mineral salts like lime. If grape cures as con- 
ducted, for instance, in Meran (Tyrol) give good 
results in arteriosclerosis and heart cases, the results 
I think could be explained by the above observations. 
We can best introduce lime in our bodies through 
milk, cheese, eggs, fruits, and vegetables. The latter, 
especially fruits, are also rich in sodium and potas- 
sium, which are also valuable elements for the activity 
of the heart. I would especially insist upon the fact 
that the heart-muscle is rich in lime, as it contains 
about seven times as much of it as the other muscles. 
If we introduce in our system freshi, uncooked milk 
and eggs we also introduce a very valuable substance 
of which we have spoken before, vitamines. I believe 
that these substances must be very valuable for the 
activity of the heart because in all the diseased con- 
ditions, the deficiency diseases, arising, we have found, 
a want of this substance (Funck). Besides, in nerv- 
ous troubles a weakness of the heart and muscles is 
commo'n. If in one of this class of diseases, like 



XXXV111 



Uncooked Milk. 



beriberi, even in the latent cases, strong muscular 
exertions are made, then cardiac attacks will appear 
with great weakness of the heart. According to 
Funck, chief of the laboratory of the London Cancer 
Research Institute, muscular exertions are apt to make 
these diseases break out at once in cases, until then 
latent, without any symptoms. He also impresses 
upon the fact that when vitamines are wanting in 
the food, it is the vitamine stores of the muscles which 
are attacked first (Funck, "Die Vitamine," Wiesbaden, 
1914). But as the best proof for my opinion that 
food containing vitamines is indisplaceable for the 
heart-muscle I mention the fact, determined by 
Cooper and quoted by Funck, Journal of Hygienics, 
1913, that the heart-muscle is very rich in vitamines. 
Beriberi and other deficiency diseases are the highest 
degree of a condition that is due to the entire want 
of vitamdnes in the blood. But no doubt there may 
be lower degrees due to the insufficient amount of 
vitamines, in which may simply show symptoms of 
neurasthenia with nervous heart troubles, as an ex- 
pression of the craving of our systemi after these sub- 
stances. Milk containing vitamines, and also contain- 
ing a considerable amount of sugar and lime, it must 
be considered as the most valuable food for the heart. 
But only fresh milk, for by boiling it the vitamines 
are lost. Boiling above 100 C, and especially in large 
apparatus under high pressure like in the autoclave 
used in many of the large institutions and some of 
the big hotels, destroys the vitamines. I have already 
in my diet book, in the chapter on rational cooking, 
insisted upon the dangers of overcooking our food. 



Some Effects of Modern Progress. xxxix 

Another rich source of vitamines, the bran of wheat 
and rye, is taken from us through another invention 
of our so-called modern civilization, the machine 
milling, simply for technical reasons. Forty or fifty 
years ago there was no cases o beriberi in the far 
east; the natives ate rice with its who'lesome outer 
layers; then modern civilization introduced machine 
mills instead of the old hand mills, robbing the rice 
of the silver fleece rich in vitamines, and beriberi 
appeared. It is true that the bran presents obstacles 
to our intestinal juices, but there exist certain methods 
by which it can be ground to a fine flour and all 1 its 
valuable parts assimilated and introduced in our body. 
We have quoted here several instances of the fateful 
influence of our modern progress upon our health. 
What is the good of the great progress of medicine 
if, on the other hand, our modern progress through 
reckless inventions separates us from Mother Nature 
and, inducing us to unnatural habits and ways, ex- 
poses us to disease and untimely death. No wonder, 
then, if arteriosclerosis and old age appear in rela- 
tively young people. 



CHAPTER I. 

ON THE APPEARANCE OF SYMPTOMS OF OLD AGE IN 
YOUNG PERSONS. 

As a general rule the first symptoms of old age do not 
appear before the fortieth or forty-fifth year. There are, how- 
ever, many persons who, much earlier, occasionally even before 
thirty, show some of the typical symptoms of senility: corpu- 
lence, gray hair, wrinkles in the face, falling out of the hair and 
loss of teeth, etc., for example. The gums also are retracted from 
the teeth, which consequently appear greatly lengthened; later 
on the teeth become loosened and fall out. This then causes the 
jaw bones to atrophy, when the face becomes sunken, and the indi- 
vidual appears many years older. The hair loses its original color 
and becomes dry and gray, especially on the temples. The ap- 
pearance of bald spots surrounded by gray hair increases the aged 
appearance of the face. On examination, the pulse of such per- 
sons may exhibit a high tension, the temporal arteries may be 
tortuous, and the skin found to be dry. A sensation of cold in 
the extremities is especially frequent. There is, as a rule, a 
tendency to constipation. The mental faculties are also altered; 
the memory weakens, and the mind is often depressed. Neu- 
rasthenia or hysteria become frequent in such persons, while 
impotence in men and menstrual disorders in women develop. 
The urine may be found to contain traces of albumin and occa- 
sionally a few hyaline casts. The presence of these, according to 
Professor Senator, 1 indicates a degeneration of the convoluted 
tubules of the kidneys, and thus the loss of important elements 
of the chief excretory organ of the human body. 

On examination of the state of nutrition in these persons, 

i Hermann Senator: "Die Erkrankungen der Nieren;" Nothnagel's 
"Handbuch der praktischen Medicin," ii Auflage, 1902. 

(i) 



Old Age Deferred. 



it may often be found to be below the normal. It is certain that 
such a condition in young people is abnormal, and, therefore, 
a pathological condition. 

The question now arises : In which category of diseases is 
this condition to be classified? 

In typical cases of this class there is a diminution of 
metabolism, i.e., of the assimilation and conversion of food 
into energy. We shall have to think of the possibility of altera- 
tions in those organs which govern the process of metabolism. 

These organs are the glands with internal secretion (espe- 
cially the thyroid gland, testicles, ovaries, the adrenals and 
pituitary body), according to recent researches, among which 
those of the author of this book may be mentioned. He was 
among the first to show the fact that glands with internal secre- 
tion control all the processes of oxidation, 2 and that the dis- 
eases of metabolism : diabetes, obesity, gout, etc., are the direct 
consequence of alterations in these important glands. This is 
further sustained by the labors of Sajous 3 who was the first 
to describe the mechanism through which these organs govern 
oxidation and metabolism, and to explain how they produce the 
disorders just enumerated. 

The most important part herein is taken by the thyroid 
gland, whose increased activity is followed by an augmenta- 
tion of the processes of oxidation in the body, whereas its 
degeneration is followed by a diminution of these processes. 
When the thyroid gland is degenerated entirely, as in myx- 
cedema, there is also a great diminution of all oxidation proc- 
esses. There are also cases where the thyroid is only partially 
altered by the increase of connective tissue, cases called partial 
myxoedema, and in these cases, accordingly, the diminution of the 



2 Intern. Congr. of Med., Madrid, April, 1903 ; and various Addresses to 
the Brussels Royal Society for Med. and Nat. Sciences, 1903, the Hamburg 
Med. Society, 1904, the Paris Biolog. Society, 1904, the London Path. Society, 
1906, etc. 

3 Sajous : "Internal Secretions and the Principles of Medicine," vol. i, 
1903, and vol. ii, 1907, and Philadelphia Medical Journal, March 7, 1903. 



Symptoms of Old Age in Young Persons. 3 

processes of oxidation does not take place to the same extent as in 
complete myxoedema. 

When we thus find symptoms of old age in young persons, 
together with, in the most typical cases, a state of decreased 
oxidation, we have to determine whether or not we are dealing 
with a degeneration of the thyroid gland. And, indeed, such a 
condition is before us, for the symptoms we have just mentioned 
are characteristic of myxoedema. 

If complete myxcedema, the highest degree of this condi- 
tion, is rare, on the other hand the incomplete forms, where the 
thyroid is only partially replaced by connective tissue, are fairly 
common. 

This is shown by the fact that, after the fortieth or forty- 
fifth year, the thyroid shows an increased amount of connective 
tissue, and thus cannot be so active as a thyroid with more secret- 
ing elements and less connective tissue. 

We have thus reasons to suppose that the persons above 
mentioned, who only exhibit some but not all of the symptoms 
of old age, symptoms which are also found as typical in myx- 
oedema, are suffering from a partial myxoedema or hypothy- 
roidia. And it does not necessarily follow that in all such cases 
the processes of nutrition will be diminished, as is the rule in 
typical cases of myxoedema. 

The resemblance between senility and myxoedema was first 
pointed out in 1890 by Sir Victor Horsley, one of the foremost 
authors on myxcedema, and afterward by Vermehren, 4 Ewald, 5 
of Berlin, and the author. Horsley ascribed old age to degen- 
eration of the thyroid gland, and we have shown (in a com- 
munication to the Paris Biological Society, presented by Dr. 
Gley, Professor of Physiology at the University of Paris, Decem- 
ber 4, 1904) that, besides the thyroid, there are also different 
other ductless glands whose degeneration produces old age. 
These are the sexual glands, the pituitary body, and the adrenals. 

4 Over Myxcpdemet, Kjobenhavn, 1895. 

5 Ewald: "Die Erkrankungen der Schilddriise," Nothnagel's Handbuch, 
Vienna, 1896. 



Old Age Deferred. 



It is a well-known fact that extirpation of the testicles and 
of the ovaries is followed by obesity and other symptoms of 
old age; in the same way cessation of the menstruation with 
degeneration of the ovaries at the climacteric is followed by all 
the symptoms of old age and certain nervous disturbances, as, for 
instance, troublesome flushings, which occur here, as after cas- 
tration. Eunuchs, as a rule, look much older than their age. 
The Oriental eunuchs, and also the members of a religious caste 
in Russia, the Skopse, who castrate themselves through fanati- 
cism, because of their parchment-like face covered with innumer- 
able wrinkles, appear aged beyond their years. 

Degeneration of the pituitary body is also followed by pre- 
mature senility. This is shown by the fact that acromegalic 
persons, as a rule, look much older than their age. This also 
holds good in the case of myxoedematous patients. We have 
had opportunity to see, quite recently, the skeleton of a female 
acromegalic patient of Dr. G. A. Gibson in Edinburgh, and found 
typical indications of old age, an enormous augmentation of 
connective tissue and vascularization of the bones, with great 
porosity. 

It must be remembered that all the glands with internal 
secretions, according to Pineles, 6 Sajous, 7 and the researches of 
the author, stand in very close relation to one another. Thus, 
degeneration of the thyroid is followed by that of the pituitary 
body. This was shown by the experiments of Hofmeister, 8 
Stieda, 9 Rogowitsch, 10 Benda, and many others. Degeneration 
of the pituitary is followed by a similar lesion in the thyroid. 

Arteriosclerosis is a condition very frequently met with in 
elderly persons, and, according to recent researches, this disease 
is caused by a toxic agent with subsequent degeneration of the 
walls of the blood-vessels. Such a change can be produced 

6 Pineles: Volkmann's klin. Vortrage, N. 242, 1899. 

7 Sajous : "Internal Secretions," Philadelphia, vol. i, p. 140, 1903. 

8 "Beitrage zur klin. Chirurgie," 1894. 

9 Ziegler's Beitrage, Bd. vii. 
lOZiegler's Beitrage, vol. iv, 1889. 



Symptoms of Old Age in Young Persons. 5 

artificially, as shown by Josue, 11 by injecting adrenal extract 
into rabbits. 

That the ductless glands are closely related holds good aiso 
for the thyroid and adrenals. This relation, however, is an, 
antagonistic one. The adrenals increase the blood-pressure 
(Oliver and Schafer 12 ), and the thyroid diminishes it. It is 
an interesting fact, demonstrated by Professor Eiselsberg 13 in 
Vienna, that extirpation of the thyroid gland of dogs results in 
atheroma of the aorta. In connection with this we also men- 
tion the clinical fact, that all those agencies which are harmful 
to the thyroid gland, as syphilis, abundant meat food (Brei- 
sacher, 14 Blum, 15 Lorand 16 ), alcohol (Hertoghe and de Quer- 
vain 17 ), and tobacco (Hertoghe), are also those which are 
commonly considered to be the causes of high tension and 
arteriosclerosis. Infectious diseases are also brought in etiolog- 
ical relationship with arteriosclerosis, and it has been shown by 
a series of authors, that in infectious diseases the thyroid under- 
goes important alterations which may involve its degeneration 
(Roger and Gamier, Crispino, Torri, Bayon, de Quervain). 

Infectious diseases also induce changes in the adrenals, as 
shown by many authors (see Chapter III). 

Various toxic products, such as lead, alcohol, and tobacco, 
which are considered causes of arteriosclerosis, are also able to 
produce hypertrophy of the adrenals. 

And, if we consider those agencies which are commonly con- 
sidered the causes of premature senility, we notice the singular 
fact that they are also considered to be especially harmful to 
the various glands with internal secretion, particularly the thy- 
roid and sexual glands. 

11 Josue": C. R. Societe de biologic, Nov. 14, 1903. 

12 Oliver and Schafer: Journal of Physiology, vol. xviii, 1895. 

13 Eiselsberg: "Die Krankheiten der Schilddriise," Stuttgart, 1901. 

14 Breisacher : Archiv fur Anat. und Physiologic, Suppl., Bd., p. 509, 1890. 

15 Blum: Virchow's Archiv, p. 495-514, 1899. 

16 Lorand: Transactions of the Path. Society of London, vol. Ivii, Part 
1, 1906. 

17 La Semaine Mfidicale, 1905. 



Old Age Deferred. 



Among these agencies may be mentioned infectious diseases, 
sexual excesses, frequent pregnancies, strong emotions continued 
for a long time, such as grief and sorrow, chronic intoxications 
(by poisonous products produced in the body, or introduced from 
without). We will show later, in an exhaustive way, the action 
of these agencies upon the glands with internal secretion. 

Between the thyroid gland and the ovaries, .a close rela- 
tionship also exists. Thus, invariably, when we find the thyroid 
altered, we can also see changes in the ovaries. Consequently 
in myxcedema and Graves's disease we find, with great fre- 
quency, disturbances in the functions of the ovaries, e.g., cessa- 
tion of the menses, or disorders of menstruation. In such con- 
ditions the ovaries have often been found to be atrophied. We 
also frequently find such disturbances in acromegaly, where they 
may either be due to changes in the pituitary, associated with an 
altered condition of the ovaries, or they may be ascribed directly 
to changes in the thyroid which, as we have shown in a commu- 
nication to the International Congress in Madrid, 1903, is very 
often altered in acromegaly. If microscopically examined it 
is probably found changed in every case. Indeed, we have 
attributed acromegaly to the primary changes in the thyroid 
which lead only secondarily to those in the pituitary body. 

In diabetes, which disease, according to our investigations, 
is often caused by changes in the thyroid, 18 and subsequently 
in the pancreas, or vice versa, amenorrhea or impotency is 
frequently met with. 

On the other hand, changes in the ovaries are also, as a 
rule, followed by changes in the thyroid gland, as may be seen 
in puberty, menstruation, pregnancy, lactation, and the climac- 
teric. We will enlarge upon this later, in greater detail, but we 
will only briefly mention here that we may frequently see a 
swelling of the thyroid gland as an expression of increased 



iSLorand: "Die Entstehung der Zuckerkrankheit und ihre Beziehungen 
zu den Veranderungen der Blutgefassdriisen," Berlin, A. Hirschwald, 1903, and. 
French Translation, Maloine, Paris, 1904. 



Symptoms of Old Age in Young Persons. 7 

activity during these conditions. We can also see this in dis- 
eases of the ovaries, and, as certain authors show, even sexual 
excesses can produce an altered state of the thyroid. This was 
known to the ancient Hebrews, for they used to examine the 
neck of the newly-married bride the morning following the wed- 
ding night to see if the neck had become larger by the swelling 
of the thyroid gland. 

Thus we can readily understand that, frequently, swelling 
of the thyroid is the consequence of over-work of this organ, 
and, as in the case of great sexual excesses or frequent pregnan- 
cies, may lead to exhaustion of the gland with its grave clinical 
consequences. 

Indeed it has been shown by the earliest authors on myx- 
cedema, that this disease is very frequently caused by too fre- 
quent pregnancies, especially if connected with prolonged lacta- 
tion (Ord, Morvan, Combe). This will also explain why women 
more frequently show the symptoms of precocious senility than 
men, whose sexual glands are not put to such constant activity 
and change as are the female sexual glands. Similarly women, 
after frequent pregnancies, especially with prolonged lactation, 
or women with diseases of the ovaries, and also those addicted 
to habitual sexual excess, such as prostitutes, very soon become 
fat and fade before their time. Thus we may see symptoms of 
precocious senility in such women even before the end of the third 
decade, especially if they have begun to lead an immoral life at 
an early age. Even young girls may look much older through the 
abuse of their ovaries from sexual excesses. Their breasts be- 
come large and pendulous, and their faces bloated and relaxed. 
Menstruation may likewise be made to appear in early childhood 
by sexual abuses, as Pauline Tarnowska 18a has found through the 
examination in St. Petersburg of 150 very young prostitutes. 

We shall show in the next chapter that obesity, which has 
nothing to do with over-feeding, can be caused by like agencies. 



18 Tarnowska : "Etudes antropomStriquea sur les prostitutes et lea 
yoleuses," Paris, 1889 f 



8 Old Age Deferred. 



That mental emotions, especially care, grief, sorrow, etc., 
powerfully influence the different ductless glands, and are able 
to produce degeneration of the thyroid, adrenals, and sexual 
glands, etc., is shown by conclusive proofs in the chapter on the 
"Hygienics of the Mind." 

Infectious diseases are especially liable to cause change in 
the kidneys, and in various infectious diseases, sometimes even 
in tonsillitis, we may find an inflamed condition of these organs. 

The kidneys can also be damaged by the passage of various 
toxic products, which are either produced in the body (auto- 
intoxication) or introduced with the food (condiments), or as 
stimulants e.g., alcohol, strong tea, etc. All these toxic agents 
are capable of doing damage to the kidneys just as to the thy- 
roid gland. We shall treat later on, in separate chapters, of the 
action of these stimulants upon the ductless glands. 

The condition termed auto-intoxication may be induced by 
many different factors, among which may be mentioned the 
products of intestinal putrefaction (Senator 19 ) and the waste 
products from the processes of oxidation, such as uric acid, for 
example. Animal food is more apt to produce intestinal putre- 
faction than any of the various other foodstuffs. 

There are three important organs which protect us against 
such a condition of auto-intoxication; these are the kidneys, 
liver, and thyroid, and possibly also the parathyroids. 

The kidneys act by promptly eliminating such toxic products 
in the urine. They are glands with internal secretion, as shown 
by the experiments of Brown-Sequard, 20 E. Meyer, 21 and clin- 
ical observations of Senator 22 and H. Strauss'. 

The liver, which, according to Gilbert, H. Strauss, 23 and 
others, is also a gland with an internal secretion, is strongly an- 
tagonistic to intestinal poisons. It destroys toxic products 



19 Senator: Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, Nu. 24, 1868. 

20 Brown-S6quard : Archives de physiologic norm, et path, p. 778, 18fl3. 

21 E. Meyer: Ibid. p. 179, 1894. 

22 Senator: Loo. cit. 

23 H. Strauss, Senator : Festschrift. 



Symptoms of Old Age in Young Persons. 9 

brought to it from the intestine through the portal vein, and sev- 
eral authors, Professor Adami, Sir Lauder Brunton and Boken- 
ham, 24 show that it is also able to eliminate such products with the 
bile after previous transformation. We will treat of these pro- 
tective functions of the liver in a separate chapter, together with 
the hygienics of this important organ; but we will just men- 
tion here that the liver plays a great role in the transformation 
of the toxic end products of albuminous food into harmless sub- 
stances, such as urea. 

The third important toxin-destroying organ is the thyroid 
gland, which, as shown by the experiments of Dr. Leo Brei- 
sacher, 25 of Detroit, formerly assistant to Professor Munk, of 
Berlin, and of Dr. F. Blum, 26 of Frankfort, as well as Dr. 
Chalmers Watson, 27 of Edinburgh, destroys those poisonous 
substances produced by the decomposition of proteid food. More- 
over, Sajous has shown that this is a prominent function of the 
pituitary body, the thyroid and the adrenals, acting jointly as 
the "adrenal system." 

It will be evident that these various glands can only do their 
work to perfection so long as their parenchymatous tissue is not 
replaced to any large extent by connective tissue. Of these glands 
the thyroid takes the foremost rank, as it governs the other 
glands. As we have shown in a communication to the French 
Congress of Medicine, in Liege, 1905, the thyroid influences 
the liver, and in a paper before the Paris Biological Society, 
February 25, 1907, we have shown that the thyroid also influ- 
ences the kidneys. In fact, the liver and kidneys are closely 
allied to the thyroid, and when this organ is degenerated, the 
other two glands follow suit. 

Accordingly we may expect that, when the thyroid under- 
goes a process of degeneration, such an event may also take place 



24 Sir Lauder Brunton and Bokenham : The Journal of Pathology and 
Bacteriology, p. 50, Nov., 1907. 

25 Breisacher : LOG. tit. 

26 Blum: Virchow's Archiv, 1899. 
27 Lancet, Feb. 11, 1905. 



10 Old Age Deferred. 



in these two protective organs, as we have shown in our atx?ve- 
mentioned two communications. In consequence of the dimin- 
ished activity of these organs the development of a condition 
of auto-intoxication may be facilitated. Patients showing symp- 
toms of old age in early years, also show to a greater or 
less extent symptoms of such a condition, as do myxoedematous 
persons. 

Meat food especially, if taken in large quantity, is a certain 
producer of uric acid, and it is an interesting fact, shown by 
several authors and also by the writer, 28 that by thyroid medica- 
tion we can augment the elimination of uric acid, and also pre- 
vent its formation in large quantity, both in the case of uric 
acid formed in the body or introduced from without by the food. 

This fact stands in relation to the powerful influence exer- 
cised by the ductless glands, and especially the thyroid, upon 
the process of oxidation ; and, as we are anxious to prove the as- 
sertions we here advance, we shall show in the next chapter how 
these wonderful glands influence the processes of nutrition in the 
tissues, and at the same time the external appearance. We have 
already mentioned a form of obesity that has nothing to do with 
overfeeding, as one of the symptoms of precocious old age, and 
in the next chapter we will review in detail the agencies which 
govern this condition. 



28Lorand: Comptes Rendus de la Soci6t de biologie de Paris, FSvrier 
25, 1907. 



CHAPTER II. 

ON THE AGENCIES WHICH GOVERN OUR EXTERNAL APPEAR- 
ANCE AND THE NUTRITION OF THE TISSUES. 

As a general rule infants of both sexes look very much 
alike, so much so, indeed, that sometimes it is only possible, upon 
close inspection, to determine the difference in sex. This, how- 
ever, can only be so for a certain period until certain changes 
take place in the ductless glands, especially in the sexual glands 
and the thyroid. 

The latter contains but very little, if any, colloid sub- 
stance in infancy, and the colloid increases only gradually until 
it is present in abundance at the time of puberty, when also the 
changes in the sexual glands reach a climax coincident with the 
ripening of the follicles in the ovaries and their rupture at a 
menstrual period. This latter process is, as we have mentioned 
before, under the influence of the thyroid. Puberty and men- 
struation do not take place, as a rule, in persons with a degen- 
erated thyroid gland. 

With the onset of puberty there is seen, also, a change in 
the external appearance of the individual and the attributes of 
virility e.g., moustache, hair in the pubic region, alteration of 
the voice, etc., appear. In the female the development of the 
breast, hair on the pubis, etc., occurs. At the same time the 
features attain the peculiar characteristic which distinguishes 
the male face from the female, even without the aid of a mous- 
tache. 

In those persons in whom puberty has not occurred at the 
usual age (fourteen to sixteen years in our climate) the attri- 
butes of sex are absent. In these cases the male looks very much 
like the female. A similar phenomenon may be seen in women 
after castration and the climacteric, when they may even show 

en) 



12 Old Age Deferred. 



a tendency to develop a moustache and hair on their face, in 
places, corresponding to the male beard. 

This we can also observe in women whose ovaries have been 
altered by disease or by sexual excesses. 

These attributes of sex are also called external sexual char- 
acteristics, and they are the direct result of the internal secretion 
of the sexual glands. They only develop through the presence of 
such a secretion, and this is easily demonstrated by the fact that 
after castration of the infant, they do not appear at all. Hence, 
if we see grown up men with no trace of a moustache it may 
indicate an undeveloped condition of the testicles. Again, we 
castrate a young cock, he will not grow a comb and spurs, and 
other cocks will pass by, too proud to fight with a degenerate 
deprived of its male attributes. If we now take the extirpated 
testicle of such cock and graft it under his skin, the other cocks 
will commence to fight with him, for his comb and spurs will 
develop as in other normal cocks. 

That the whole external appearance of a castrated animal 
or man is changed, is also demonstrated by important changes 
in the skeleton and size of such animals or persons. 

As Poncet 1 has shown, the extremities of a castrated rabbit 
become abnormally long, and it is a well-known fact that 
eunuchs have abnormally long arms and legs. This also occurs 
in cases of infantilism, which, as we know, is due to a non-devel- 
opment of the sexual glands. Moreover, the thyroid of such 
individuals is also found to be in a pathological condition, as 
was shown by Hertoghe. 

Men who have been castrated before puberty or whose tes- 
ticles are undeveloped, present such an external appearance. They 
have no moustache, as above mentioned; their hair is dry and 
brittle and remains short ; their faces are pale, and of a yellowish 
hue; their hands are cold and reddish blue. Often the skin of 
the face is like parchment and has many wrinkles. Their intelli- 



1 Poncet: C. R. de la Soci6t6 de biologic de Paris, 55. 



External Appearance and Nutrition of Tissues. 13 

gence is often diminished, as we will show later on, and they are 
usually anaemic. 

Women with undeveloped ovaries have flat breasts and hips ; 
their faces are often irregular in structure, and their jaws are 
often prominent; their gums are shrunken and their teeth are 
long and soon fall out. Some cases may show a colossal obesity, 
but in the partial forms of ovarian insufficiency they may be 
remarkably thin. They also are, as a rule, anaemic or chlorotic. 

In some parts of the Orient, as in India, there are female 
eunuchs, such as Roberts has seen on the way from Delhi to Bom- 
bay. Such eunuchs had no bosom ; the pubic hair was absent, and 
their buttocks were like those of men ; but the rest of the body 
was stouter. Of course these women had been castrated during 
their childhood. 

If we make a Roentgen-ray examination of the skeleton of a 
person castrated in childhood, we shall find that the epiphysial car- 
tilages remain unossified for a long time after puberty. 

It is a very interesting fact that, both after castration and 
in myxcedema, the same persistence of the epiphysial cartilages 
and retardation of ossification have been observed by means of 
the Roentgen-rays: by Hertoghe in 1896; Springer and Ser- 
banesco in 1897; Gasne and Laude in 1898; Legry and Renault 
in 1902 ; Jeandelize in 1903. The same thing has also been 
observed by Hertoghe in "Infantilism of the Type of Lorraine." 

The influence of the thyroid upon the skeleton and size of 
the body is easily shown by simple observations. 

Children of parents with cachectic diseases like chronic tuber- 
culosis, syphilis, alcoholism, etc., in which the thyroid gland is, 
as a rule, found degenerated (Gamier, 2 Hertoghe 3 ), are (as 
shown by Prof. Perrando 4 and Gamier) born with a congenital 
atrophy of the thyroid. Just as young animals with an extir- 



2 Gamier : "La Thyroide dans les maladies inf ectieuses," ThSse de Paris, 
1899. 

3 Hertoghe : Loc. cit. 

4Eerrando: "Sulla struttura della Tiroide," Sassari, 1900. 



14 Old Age Deferred. 



pated thyroid, so these children will not grow, and we know 
that cretins (degeneration of the thyroid) remain as a rule dwarfs 
all their life long. We can now produce in such persons certain 
and very curious changes by feeding them with thyroid extract, 
and we can see them, as Hertoghe has shown, grow inch by inch 
in a short period; their mental faculties improving at the same 
time in an incredible manner. 

The influence of the thyroid upon the skeleton is also shown 
by the fact, established by Gauthier, 5 that in a fracture with but 
little tendency to the formation of a callus, union takes place 
much more quickly after administration of thyroid extract. 

In Graves's disease, with exaggeration of the thyroid activ- 
ity, there is, on the other hand, an increased elimination of the 
most important constituent of the skeletal tissues: calcium car- 
bonate, and this occurs also in acromegaly and diabetes, in which 
conditions the thyroid is very frequently altered (Lorand 6 ). 

Osteomalacia, which is associated with an enormous elimi- 
nation of calcium carbonate is, as we at present consider, due to 
an exaggerated ovarian activity (Fehling), and can be favor- 
ably influenced by castration or, by what would be more reason- 
able, thyroid treatment. 

No less powerful than that of the thyroid is the influence 
of the pituitary body upon the skeleton, especially upon the 
hands, feet, and skull. And if we wish to demonstrate how much 
the ductless glands influence the looks of a person, it is suffi- 
cient to point out the great changes that take place in the face 
of a patient with acromegaly. This disease makes such persons 
look very much as "Punch" is depicted. 

The skin and complexion of persons suffering from changes 
in the ductless glands are also very different from normal. Thus 
Addison's disease, due, as well known, to a degeneration of the 
adrenals, makes a white man look more or less like an Indian, 
and there is a pigmented skin also in persons affected by the 

5 Les Medications thyroidiennes, 1902. 

6 Lorand : Loc. cit. 



External Appearance and Nutrition of Tissues. 15 

partial form of that rare disease. We can also easily show that 
changes in the thyroid are followed by changes in the condition 
of the skin. Thus, with thyroid degenerations, as in myxcedema, 
the skin is pale with a yellowish tinge. In Graves's disease pig- 
mentation of the skin can often be observed, and not rarely 
cutaneous eruptions. 

In affections of the sexual organs in woman similar condi- 
tions of the skin can occur. Such persons often present wrinkles 
at a very early age, and certainly look older than their years. 
Infants suffering from congenital degeneration of the thyroid 
gland often look withered and present a face as wrinkled as a 
sexagenarian. We see this also in congenital syphilis (atrophy 
of the thyroid). 

The hair also very often shows alterations in diseases of 
the thyroid, or ovaries. Thus, in myxcedema there is an atrophy 
of the follicles of the hair, which falls out, even in the case of 
the eyebrows. 

It is particularly interesting that, by thyroid medication, a 
new growth of hair has been observed in places where it had 
fallen out years previously, as we have observed, with other 
authors, in several cases after thyroid medication. And, very 
strange to say, this newly-grown hair was quite dark while the 
hair that had previously been in its place was gray in color. 
It has been authentically stated by several authorities that old 
persons of sixty or seventy have acquired black hair under thy- 
roid treatment. 

On the other hand, in much younger persons, perhaps under 
thirty, who are suffering from complete or partial degeneration 
of the thyroid gland, the hair very often turns gray ; so much so 
that Hertoghe considers this to be one of the typical symptoms 
of such a condition. 

The falling out of hair, or its turning gray, after acute 
infectious diseases or after grief and sorrow, may have some 
connection with the well-known changes in the ductless glands, 
especially in the thyroid, in these conditions. This is made quite 



16 Old Age Deferred. 



clear by Sajous's demonstration that these glands collectively 
govern the activity of general oxidation, that is to say the vital 
process itself. 

As we have previously mentioned, a moustache or whiskers 
may grow in women suffering from disease of the ovaries, just 
as after castration or the climacteric. It is also very interesting 
that a premature grayness often occurs in cases of insanity, and 
can be attributed to the frequent changes in the thyroid and 
sexual glands in these conditions. 

The nutrition of the skin is entirely under the influence of 
the thyroid. After extirpation or degeneration of the thyroid, 
there occurs atrophy of the sebaceous and sudorific glands. 

In myxcedema the skin is dry and never perspires. On the 
contrary, in Graves's disease, or after thyroid medication in 
large doses, there is abundant perspiration. 

Deposits of tartar are common symptoms in all forms of 
thyroid degeneration. Retraction of the gum follows and the 
teeth loosen and fall out. This is also a common symptom in 
diabetes, but here only in advanced cases. In such cases there 
is, as we 6a have shown, an exhaustion of the thyroid gland, which 
develops as a consequence of the previous hyperactivity of the 
thyroid gland in the early stages of the disease. As a rule the 
teeth of a diabetic only fall out in the severer form of the disease, 
generally after acetone has begun to show itself in the urine. 

Important changes take place in the subcutaneous tissue 
after extirpation of the thyroid gland. In such cases there is 
either augmentation of connective tissue or of fat. Thus, in 
the case of a young bull, whose history we followed, there has 
been an increase of thirty pounds of fat within a few months 
after extirpation of the thyroid. The same thing happened in the 
case of a young horse, whose thyroid was also extirpated. 

There are, however, still more facts which show the great 
influence of the thyroid upon the metabolism of fat. Thus we 



eLorand: "Die Entstehung der Zuckerkrankheit," Berlin, 1903, and in 
French translation, Paris, 1904. 



External 'Appearance and Nutrition of Tissues. 17 

know very well that by thyroid medication we are able to reduce 
fat considerably. This is due to the action of the thyroid which, 
as shown by many authors, increases the process of oxidation. 
In Graves's disease these processes are augmented. In the oppo- 
site condition (myxcedema) they are diminished. By giving 
thyroid extract we are able to augment, positively, the processes 
of oxidation in the tissues, as shown by Professor Magnus-Levy, 7 
of Berlin, and many others. 

As we have shown in our previous researches, there is an 
abundant formation of fat in the early cases of degeneration of 
the thyroid gland, which sometimes progresses to a colossal 
obesity, which obesity has nothing to do with overfeeding. 
Such individuals have, as a rule, but poor appetites, and eat 
very little. Therefore, in a communication to the French Con- 
gress of Internal Medicine in Paris, 1904, we differentiated 
two kinds of obesity: I. Exogenous obesity i.e., arising by 
agencies coming from without by the food we introduce into 
our body. 2. Endogenous obesity, having its origin within our 
economy, and depending on changes in certain glands which 
govern the processes of oxidation e.g., thyroid sexual glands, 
pituitary body. This second form is independent of our feeding. 
As we have shown, this latter can be produced by any of those 
agencies which are harmful to the ductless glands, especially the 
thyroid and sexual glands, as, for example, infectious diseases, 
frequent pregnancies, certain toxic products (alcohol), sexual 
excesses, climateric. All these conditions may have the effect 
of producing obesity, which can be explained by an exhaustion 
of the thyroid and ovaries following a pre-existing hyperac- 
tivity. 

The influence of the ovaries upon the production of obesity 
can be demonstrated by the sequels of castration, and also by 
the fact that women, after one or more, especially several preg- 



7Magmis-L6vy: "Der Stoffwechsel bei Erkrankungen einiger Drusen ohne 
Ausfiihrgang," in v. Noorden'a "Handbuch der Pathologic des Stoffwechsels" 
vol. ii, Berlin, 1907. 

a 



18 Old Age Deferred. 



nancies, or after sexual excesses, may become very fat. In such 
women this obesity may be only partial and limited (as we have 
shown in a recent communication to the International Congress 
of Medicine in Lisbon, 1906) to certain parts e.g., the mam- 
mary glands or hips. 

There can be no doubt that the sexual glands influence the 
nutrition of the tissues in a powerful manner, and this has also 
been shown, experimentally, by the researches of two Berlin 
experimenters, Professors Loewy and P. I. Richter, 8 performed 
in the physiological institution of Professor Zunz. These savants 
have shown that after castration there is a diminution of oxida- 
tion. By giving extracts of dogs 7 testicles to castrated male 
dogs, they were able to augment the processes of oxidation. 
These processes, however, were still more increased after the 
administration of female extracts to these castrated male dogs. 
The administration of ovarian extracts to the spayed bitch has, 
of course, given still better results. Thus there was here an 
increase of 67.7 per cent, after castration, and 37.6 per cent, of 
the original value. The increase of the oxidation in male dogs 
was 44.5 per cent, after castration, by the treatment with ovarian 
extracts, and 24.8 per cent, above the normal value. If the 
results after feeding with male extracts were not so successful, 
it must be attributed to the circumstance that we are at present 
unable to produce testicular extracts of the same efficacy as 
ovarian extracts. 

The action of the pituitary body upon metabolism has been 
shown by Narbuth, who found a diminution of oxidation after 
degeneration of the pituitary body, and an increase after medi- 
cation with extracts of the same organ. This fact is also shown 
clinically by cases of obesity after degeneration of the pituitary 
body in acromegaly, and by the interesting fact (shown by a 
great number of authorities and recently by Frohlich, 9 Berger, 10 

8 Loewy and Richter: Archiv fiir Anat. u. Physiologic, Supplement, 1899, 
and Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, 1899. 

9 Wiener klin. Rundschau, p. 78, 1901. 
10 Zeitschrift fur klin. Med., liv, p. 5, 6. 



External Appearance and Nutrition of Tissues. 19 

and Erdheim 11 ) that cases of pituitary tumor may be met with, 
associated with obesity, and without any of the symptoms of 
acromegaly. Especially interesting is the case of Madelung 12 
showing a colossal obesity in a girl aged 9 years, after a gun- 
shot injury of the pituitary body. This observation sustains, and 
is clearly explained by, Sajous 13 who showed that the posterior 
or neural lobe of the pituitary body contained a nerve center 
which governed the functional activity of the thyroid, and that 
the secretion of the latter insured the catabolism of fats by in- 
creasing their vulnerability to oxidation. 

The external appearance of such cases of obesity, which we 
have described before the French Congress of Medicine in 1904, 
and the London Pathological Society, February 21, 1905, as 
endogenous obesity, is also clinically different from the appear- 
ance of those caused by over-feeding. As we have shown, per- 
sons addicted to rich food, with little exercise, are often red in 
the face, and are plethoric; they easily become overheated and 
perspire freely. They seldom complain of constipation. On the 
other hand persons suffering from endogenous obesity generally 
look pale, always complain of cold and dry skin, and perspire 
very seldom, if at all. As a rule they are also very constipated. 

There is still another ductless gland which influences metab- 
olism in a powerful way. This is the pancreas which, by its 
three enzymes, brings about the assimilation of the proteid car- 
bohydrate and fatty materials. To these may also be added its 
production of labferment. By its internal secretion, which is 
probably produced by the islands of Langerhans, it aids in the 
oxidation of the sugar, introduced into our alimentary canal in 
the shape of starchy food, or contained in the carbohydrated 
radicle of the albuminous molecules, as demonstrated by Pavy. 
The entire degeneration of the pancreas, especially of the part 
containing the islands of Langerhans, produces a disease that is, 



11 Ziegler's Beitrage, 1903. 

i2Archiv fur klin. Chirurgie, p. 1066, 1904. 

13 Sajous: "Internal Secretions, etc.," vol. ii, 1907. 



20 Old Age Deferred. 



as a rule, characterized by loss of weight and the production of 
emaciation often to an astonishing degree i.e., diabetes. 

Persons suffering from the milder form of this disease often 
present a rosy and healthy appearance, and as we have pointed 
out previously, often look younger than their age. We believe 
that, as we shall show further on, this fact is not without rela- 
tion to the condition of the thyroid in this disease. We have 
shown by researches made in the laboratory of Professor Min- 
kowski, then of the Augusta Hospital in Cologne, that in diabetes 
the thyroid contains large, sometimes enormous, quantities of 
colloid substance, thus indicating a condition of thyroid hyper- 
activity. 

. As we have mentioned in the first chapter, corpulence is 
often one of the first symptoms of old age, and we have also 
insisted upon the fact that this can be brought about by infec- 
tious diseases (e.g., typhoid, pneumonia, scarlet fever, etc.). As 
we have also mentioned the fact, in the first chapter, that old 
age can be brought about by .an infectious disease which acts 
upon the ductless glands, especially the thyroid, we believe it will 
be necessary to enter a little more in detail into this subject, to 
which we will devote the next chapter. We will enlarge upon 
the fact that our immunity against infectious diseases is entirely 
dependent on the proper working order of certain ductless 
glands. 



CHAPTER III. 

ON THE AGENCIES WHICH GOVERN IMMUNITY AGAINST 
INFECTIONS AND INTOXICATIONS THE ORIGIN OF FEVER. 

FROM the moment of our birth we are constantly exposed 
to the incessant attacks of innumerable bacteria and to the effects 
of a large amount of poisonous material formed within our body 
or introduced from without, and if we survive this ceaseless 
battle it is due to the powerful weapon we possess in the internal 
secretion of the ductless glands, especially of the thyroid gland. 
That this gland possesses very energetic antitoxic properties can 
be shown by the fact that when it is extirpated animals or per- 
sons very readily acquire infectious diseases of all sorts. Thus, 
the late Professor Charrin, 1 of Paris, showed several years ago 
how readily dogs that have lost their thyroid succumb to all 
possible infections. Professor W. S. Greenfield, 2 of Edinburgh, 
has found that persons suffering from myxoedema (athyroidia) 
very often die from tuberculosis, and Professor Pel, 3 of Amster- 
dam, found a great frequency of tuberculosis in the families of 
myxoedematous persons. This coincides with the conclusions 
of Prof. G. R. Murray, 4 Professor Lanz, and ourself, that the 
properties of the thyroid can be inherited. Sajous has shown, 
moreover, that the pituitary, the adrenals and the thyroid con- 
stituted the autoprotective mechanism of the body against disease, 
a fact not only sustained by the above evidence, but also by a vast 
number of additional facts. 

As we showed at the last Congress of Tuberculosis in Paris, 



1 Charrin: "Les Defenses naturelles de Forganisme," Paris, 1898 (Masson). 
2 Greenfield: Quoted after Ewald, "Die Erkrankungen der Schllddriise," 
Nothnagel's Handbuch, Wien. p. 159, 1896. 

3 Pel : "Myxcedema," Volkmann's Sammlung klin. Vortrage, 1895, No. 123. 
4 Murray: "Diseases of the Thyroid Gland/' Part i, London, 1901. 

(21) 



22 Old Age Deferred. 



1905, tuberculosis is especially frequent as a sequel to any process 
deleterious to the thyroid gland, as after the puerperium, espe- 
cially with prolongated lactation ; after sexual excesses, as there 
is a relation between the sexual glands and the thyroid; after 
various infectious diseases; after rapid growth in puberty, due 
to hyperactivity of the thyroid which influences the growth of 
the body ; after severe diabetes due to exhaustion of the thyroid ; 
and after previous hyperactivity in chronic alcoholism due to 
the action of alcohol upon the thyroid. On the other hand, all 
those agencies which excite thyroid activity may be a preventive 
against tuberculosis, such as raw meat and milk. It has been 
shown that milk contains the internal secretion of the thyroid. 

The thyroid protects us against poisons of different origin, 
such as the products of decomposition of protein food. This 
fact is shown by the experiments of Dr. Leo Breisacher, of 
Detroit, 5 formerly assistant of the late Professor Munk, of Ber- 
lin, and from those of Dr. Blum, 6 of Frankfort. The experi- 
mental results of Dr. Chalmers Watson, 7 showing alteration 
of the thyroid in certain animals after an exclusive diet of raw 
meat, and those of Dr. D. Forsyth 8 concerning the pituitary 
body in some animals, may be correlated with this fact. As 
is well known, the thyroid and pituitary body stand in very close 
relationship. Galeotti and Lindemann, 9 in 1897, have also shown 
that the products of decomposition of meat produce an increase 
of the colloid substance of the thyroid. 

The antitoxic properties of the thyroid against different 
products is also shown by the observations of Lanz 10 and Walter 
Edmunds, 11 who have found that animals without thyroid resist 

5 Breisacher: "Untersuchung fiber die Gland Thyroidea," Archiv fiir 
Anatomic und Physiologic, Suppl., Bd., p. 509, 1889. 

6 Blum: Pfluger's Archiv, vol. xc., p. 285, 1902; Archiv fiir die Gesammte 
Physiologic, p. 617, 1902. 

7 Chalmers Watson: The Lancet, p. 347, Feb. 11, 1905. 

8 Forsyth: The Lancet, p. 154, Jan. 19, 1907. 

-9 Lindemann: Virchow's Archiv, p. 202, 1897. 
10 Lanz: Zur Schilddriisenfrage, Leipzig, 1894. 

11 W. Edmunds: The Lancet, May llth, p. 1317; 18th, p. 1381; 25th, 
p. 1449, 1901. 



Immunity Against Infections and Intoxications. 23 

narcosis badly; and, as we have shown in a communication to 
the Paris Biological Society, 12 chloroform, like alcohol, produces 
a condition of hyperactivity in the thyroid gland, which results 
also in an excited mental condition. The observation that cases 
of Graves's disease and of severe diabetes cannot stand narcosis 
may be related to this fact. 

It has been shown recently by Hunt 13 that the thyroid pro- 
tects us against poisons like acetonitril, and that iodine acts 
through the thyroid. Gamier, 14 of Paris, has found that cer- 
tain chemical products, such as iodine, produce great alterations 
in the thyroid. As is well known, cases of Graves's disease 
(hyperthyroidia) have been observed after iodine treatment. 
That the thyroid fulfils a protective role against infectious dis- 
eases may already be considered proved by the fact that, 
as Roger and Gamier, 15 Crispin, 16 Torre, 17 Bayon, 18 of Wurz- 
burg; de Quervain, and others have found, the thyroid is, as a 
rule, altered in infectious diseases. As Roger and Gamier have 
shown by a series of investigations confirmed by the above- 
named authors, the thyroid shows in acute infectious diseases 
with fever an increased activity with enlargement of the follicles, 
which are filled with a large quantity of colloid substance which 
may even enter into the adjacent lymphatic spaces. However, 
this hyperactivity of the thyroid gland may be followed by its 
exhaustion, and thus after a certain duration of high fever there 
may be no colloid substance at all in the folliculi. 

It is only logical to suppose that with anatomo-pathological 
alterations of the thyroid, indicating a condition of hyperactivity, 
there must be corresponding clinical symptoms and that these 

12'Lorand: C. R. de la Soci6t6 de biologie, 1906. 

13 Hunt: International Congress of Physiology, Heidelberg, 1907. 

14 Gamier : "La Thyroide dans les maladies inf ectieuses," These de Paris, 
1899. 

15 Roger et Gamier: Presse medicale, April 19, 1899. 
16 Crespin : Giornale dell' Associazione Napolitano di Medici, xii, 3. 
17 Torre: "La Tiroide nei Morbi Infettivi," II Policlinico, No. 6, p. 145; 
No. 8, p. 226; No. 10, p. 280. 

18 Bayon: Wiirzburger Abhandlungen, 1904. 



24 Old Age Deferred. 



must necessarily be similar to those found in another condition 
of hyperactivity of the thyroid gland i.e., in Graves's disease, 
the condition of hyperthyroidia. And, indeed, such must be the 
case, for, as we shall try to show, fever and Graves's disease have 
similar clinical symptoms. Thus their most typical symptom 
is the same: tachycardia or increased frequency of the pulse, 
without which no case of Graves's disease should be diagnosed. 
There is a sensation of heat in most of the cases of Graves's 
disease, and the temperature sometimes reaches a dangerous 
degree in fully developed cases of this disorder. Thirst, fre- 
quent in fever, is also a frequent symptom in Graves's disease 
(polydipsia in 14 out of 59 cases recorded by Albert Kocher 19 ), 
and can also be produced by thyroid feeding (Lanz, 20 Georgiew- 
ski, 21 and others). After a certain duration of fever further 
symptoms of an increased activity of the thyroid appear, such 
as abundant perspiration a typical feature of Graves's disease. 
Vaso-dilatation and excessive perspiration can also be produced 
by thyroid feeding. The latter symptom of fever is a device 
by which nature tries to eliminate toxic products, and accordingly 
there generally follows upon it a fall in the temperature and an 
amelioration of the symptoms of fever. The diarrhoea which 
we find in some infectious diseases, like that of typhoid fever, 
trypanosomiasis, etc., is also a typical symptom in Graves's dis- 
ease. When the fever subsides there appears another typical 
symptom of this condition : polyuria. To complete this analogy 
we may mention toxic decomposition of proteins, diminution in 
the body weight, great muscular weakness, and increased elimi- 
nation of urea and uric acid as typical symptoms of both condi- 
tions. As in Graves's disease, there is also in fever an aug- 
mentation of the processes of oxidation. Glycosuria is frequent 
in both conditions, and acetonuria may occur in fever and also 



19 A. Kocher: "Mittheilungen aus den Grenzgebeiten," etc., 1901. 
20 Lanz: Quoted after Buschau, Wein, 1895. 

2iGeorgiewski: Zeitschrift fiir klin. Medicin, Bd., xxxiii, f. 1-2, p. 153, 
1897. 



Immunity Against Infections and Intoxications. 25 

in Graves's disease. Glycosuria and diabetes in consequence of 
infectious diseases are, as we have shown in a paper read before 
the London Pathological Society, 22 probably due to the increased 
activity of the thyroid, and their disappearance, occasionally 
after a high fever, may be ascribed to the exhaustion of the thy- 
roid after a previous hyperactivity. We know that a condition 
of Graves's disease may be followed by a myxcedematous condi- 
tion in which, as we have shown previously, glycosuria is very 
rare. In the few hitherto published cases there was no com- 
plete myxcedema. 

Both in Graves's disease and fever there is an augmentation 
of the processes of oxidation. After convalescence, however, 
oxidation may be diminished, and this explains, as we have shown 
at the French Congress of Medicine in I9O4, 23 why obesity so 
frequently occurs after infectious diseases on the basis of degen- 
erative changes of the thyroid, which governs oxidation ; during 
the course of infectious disease with fever increased activity of 
the thyroid and loss of weight occur, and these are followed by 
exhaustion of thyroid activity and obesity. 

The conditions of delirium and maniacal exaltation in cases 
of high fever are analogous to the condition of mental exalta- 
tion that may occur in Graves's disease. According to the late 
Moebius, 24 in cases of Graves's disease there are sometimes 
symptoms like those of alcoholic intoxication due to the toxins of 
the thyroid. We believe that the mental exaltation in chloroform 
narcosis and alcoholic intoxication stands in relation with the 
action of these drugs upon the thyroid. That alcohol acts upon 
the thyroid has been shown by de Quervain, Hertoghe, 25 and 
others. Sajous in his work on the "Internal Secretions," urges 



22 Lorand : Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, vol. Mi, 
part 1, 1906. 

23 Lorand : Congres Frangais de Medecine, Paris, 1904. 

24 Moebius: "Die Basedow'sche Krankheit," Nothnagel's Handbuch, 
second edition. 

25 Hertoghe: "Die Rolle der Schilddrtise," etc., Miinchen, 1900; and 
"Paludisme et Myxoedfcme," Progr&s medical Beige, No. 2, 1902. 



26 Old Age Deferred. 



that the thyroid is not directly excited by toxins and other poisons 
which produce fever, but that these toxics excite primarily the 
thyroid center (or better the adreno-thyroid center, for he holds 
that the adrenals are also governed by this center) thus increas- 
ing the secretory activity of the gland. The correctness of this 
view is proved by the fact that, as shown by Sawandowski, 26 sec- 
tion of the basal tissues, and, therefore, between the pituitary and 
the bulb, prevented the production of fever, due to putrid mate- 
rials, and also the influence of antipyretics, antipyrin, for instance. 

Cutaneous eruptions may occur in fever or in Graves's dis- 
ease. In the same way as in many skin diseases they may be 
considered as the expression of an elimination of toxic products 
through the skin. 

All the above symptoms of fever may be considered as 
expression of the efforts of nature to defend herself by elimi- 
nating toxic products. All toxic products which are the causes 
of infection act upon the thyroid gland, this organ, through 
increased activity, produces symptoms such as we see in Graves's 
disease. That these symptoms, especially abundant perspiration, 
polyuria, and diarrhoea, typical in some infectious diseases, may 
be considered as the direct consequence of thyroid activity, can 
best be shown by the fact that the thyroid gland governs the 
functions of the skin, intestines, and kidneys. 

That the symptoms of fever may be considered as due to 
increased thyroid activity is also shown by the fact that nearly 
all such symptoms may be produced by thyroid preparations. We 
have personally taken for experimental purposes, during ten 
months, thyroid tablets and experienced the sensation of heat, 
flushings, and abundant perspiration. It is interesting to note 
that all kinds of wounds and contusions we got during the time 
we took these tablets, healed with surprising rapidity with fine 
granulations far better than previously; on the other hand, we 
very frequently suffered from tonsillitis and acne eruptions. 

26 Sawandowski: Centralbl. f. d. med. Wissensch. B. xxvi, S. 145, 161, 
1889. 



Immunity Against Infections and Intoxications. 27 

Symptoms similar to fever have also been produced in 
animals by thyroid feeding; thus, very often elevation of the 
frequency of the pulse from 100 to 140-160 beats (Lanz), and 
from 150 to 200 beats (Georgiewski), while Ballet and Enri- 
quez 27 produced regular fever in their animals; Easterbrook 28 
also produced "some pyrexia" in his animals and an increase 
of pulse-rate of about 40 a minute. As Dr. Tanberg, former 
assistant of the Physiological Institute in Christiania, told us, 
he has produced an increase of the temperature of two and a 
half degrees in animals, whose thyroid he had extirpated, after 
giving very large quantities of thyroid gland. 

It is of great interest to the question at issue that the reme- 
dies which we employ to fight fever should also produce symp- 
toms like the thyroid does when it is in increased activity. Thus 
salicylates produce a vaso-dilatation and abundant perspiration, 
and afterward diminution of the temperature. We have, ourself, 
taken salicylates or acetonitril preparation and felt the sensation 
of heat and afterward perspiration. When we take a hot air 
or steam bath for cold or gouty pains we produce first, great 
heat, tachycardia, and then abundant perspiration, and the typical 
symptoms of fever or increased thyroid activity. 

We know that certain drugs, as found by Gamier, have an 
exciting action upon the thyroid, such as iodine, and what is 
especially important, pilocarpine. The great sudorific action of 
this drug may stand in some relation to its effect upon the thy- 
roid. It is permissible to suppose that the different drugs which 
antagonize fever do so by acting first upon the thyroid gland 
and exciting its increased activity to fight infection. But if we 
gave too much of these we might exhaust the activity of the 
gland in the same way as Gamier found an exhaustion of the col- 
loid of the thyroid after too much iodine. This shows that we 
should not give antipyretics in too large doses. We should 
excite thyroid activity but not overdo it. 



27 Ballet and Enriquez: Quoted after Buschau. 

28 Easterbrook : The Lancet, p. 546, August 27, 1898. 



28 Old Age Deferred. 



That the thyroid is able to protect us against infectious 
diseases can be best shown by the fact that it exercises a great 
influence upon phagocytosis. According to the findings of 
Fassin, the alexins disappear from the blood after the extirpation 
of the thyroid gland ; and, according to Sir Almroth Wright, the 
production of opsonins is dependent upon internal secretions. 
Hence, it is of the greatest value to us that StepanofP 8a and 
Marbe have proved by experiments conducted in the Pasteur In- 
stitute of Paris that the opsonins disappear after the extirpation 
of the thyroid gland but increase after thyroid treatment, these 
experiments thus proving the correctness of our clinical observa- 
tions on the role of the thyroid gland as an organ for protection 
against infections, as published in The Lancet two and one-half 
years ago. Sajous, who was first (1907) to point out that the 
thyroid secretion was the agent which Wright termed "opsonin," 
is also shown to have been right by the investigations of Fassin, 
Stepanoff and Marbe, thus proving further the intimate relation- 
ship between the thyroid and our immunizing functions. 

Fever can be produced with similar symptoms by toxic 
products of different origin, as from small elements of the vege- 
table kingdom like bacteria, certain plants, and even fruits, as 
is shown by the urticaria which follows in some persons after 
eating strawberries. Certain minute elements of the animal 
kingdom have a similar power, such as protozoa like trypano- 
somes, and we may also instance certain kinds of animal food 
like oysters in certain persons, the poison of snakes, and cer- 
tain insects like tarantulas and scorpions; also certain minerals 
like arsenic and phosphorus can produce fever. Besides these 
poisons coming from without, fever with similar symptoms can 
also be produced by poisons formed within our body by the 
hyperactivity of a gland the thyroid. When so many different 
poisons produce the same result it lies near to suppose that 
they do this by means of the same agency, which, according to 



28* Stepanoff: Comptes Rendus de la S. B. de Paris, 1908. 



Immunity Against Infections and Intoxications. 29 

the aforesaid observations, is very probably a thyroid hyper- 
activity. The modus operandi of all these agents is well studied 
in Sajous's work, to which the reader is referred. 

As is well known, a condition of hyperactivity of the thy- 
roid may be followed by its exhaustion, and thus Graves's dis- 
ease may often be followed by myxcedema, i.e., athyroidia. In the 
same way the hyperactivity of the thyroid gland in infectious 
diseases may also be followed by its exhaustion and a myx- 
cedematous condition. Even complete myxcedema most fre- 
quently appears after a previous infectious disease a fact recog- 
nized by the earliest English authors on this disease. Accord- 
ingly, it is not surprising if an infectious disease like trypanoso- 
miasis is followed by a condition like sleeping sickness, which, 
as we have shown at the German Congress for Internal Medicine 
in 1905, presents all the clinical symptoms of, and identical 
anatomico-pathological alterations of the central nervous sys- 
tem noted in, myxcedema. On the other hand, trypanosomiasis 
presents all the typical symptoms of Graves's disease. In syph- 
ilis also, after the fever with eruptions in the secondary stage, 
in which we not infrequently see, especially in women, a swell- 
ing of the thyroid, we find in the tertiary stage many symptoms 
of a condition of myxcedema or hypothyroidia, and with the 
iodine treatment we add to the blood the main element of the 
thyroid gland. Iodine is also especially active, if not given in 
too large doses, in exciting thyroid activity, and sometimes it 
even provokes Graves's disease. 

Persons of healthy constitution with a good working thy- 
roid may get the sensation of heat and perspiration spontane- 
ously after a cold, or gouty pains, even without salicylates, and 
feel better afterward, whereas persons with a deficient thyroid 
have difficulty in producing the symptoms of fever. Recently 
we observed a young man, aged 22 years, with symptoms of 
hypothyroidia as described by Hertoghe, who had follicular 
tonsillitis. He presented none of the symptoms of fever, but 
it took him ten days to get over it and he felt very weak after- 



30 Old Age Deferred. 



ward. There was this summer an epidemic of typhoid fever in 
the lunatic asylum of Colorno, near Pavia. We have it from Dr. 
Gassenghi, of the University of Pavia, that half of the patients 
died; but it is very interesting to note that there was no fever. 
This may be explained by the fact that many cases of insanity 
and idiocy stand in etiological relation to alterations of the 
thyroid gland, and may get better after the hyperactivity of 
the thyroid through fever. Indeed, by some authors, e.g. 
Wagner an improvement has been observed to occur in insanity 
by producing fever through injections with tuberculin. We feel 
sorry not to be able to enter more fully into this interesting sub- 
ject, but we may briefly mention that, as we have stated in the 
Neurological Society of New York (April 2, 1906), we have 
observed several cases of dementia prsecox and melancholia with 
alterations of the thyroid and sexual glands in each case. Alco- 
holics suffering from pneumonia seldom get high fever, but often 
die in a short time. Alcohol in large quantities not only causes 
degenerative changes in the heart, but also in the thyroid. And 
we should not forget that there exist very close relations between 
the activity of these two organs. 

It seems to follow from these observations that persons with 
a good sound thyroid have a better chance in fighting infections 
and intoxications than persons with a degenerated thyroid. In 
persons with an active thyroid, an increased activity of the gland, 
and thus a better functioning of the eliminative organs which 
are governed by it, can take place more easily than in persons 
with a degenerated thyroid, and, in consequence, with a dry skin, 
constipated bowels, and lazy kidneys. Some hints may be derived 
from these observations in the interest of prophylaxis and prog- 
nosis, and also for the purposes of life insurance. 

It seems to us that the conclusion is not unjustified, that 
fever is a beneficial process of our organism which is produced 
by an increased activity of the thyroid gland as a reaction 
against toxic products and poisons in general. The symptoms 
of fever are the expression of this increased activity, and they 



Immunity Against Infections and Intoxications. 31 

are directed toward the elimination of noxious elements. It 
would be unreasonable to oppose this spontaneous healing ten- 
dency of nature by fighting these salutary symptoms, unless there 
be hyperpyrexia. Fever, as probably disease in general, serves 
the ends of nature in the interest of our conservation. In addi- 
tion to the thyroid, the other ductless glands protect us from 
infections and intoxications. Thus, the pituitary body which 
Casselli, 29 Guerrini, 30 Torri, and many others found, as a rule, 
altered through infectious diseases. Torri noticed a hyperplasia 
of the chromophile cells of the pituitary body, and disappearance 
of the colloid from the follicles in the majority of cases of pneu- 
monia, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, diphtheria, and other infec- 
tious diseases. Gamier also noted changes in this gland in 
chronic tuberculosis. Thaon, 31 in his recent thesis, also found 
changes in the pituitary body in many cases of various sorts of 
infectious disease, and, what is most interesting, also in intoxi- 
cations from intestinal origin. We must conclude with Sajous 
(1903) that the pituitary body reacts to the effects of infections 
and intoxications and that these anatomo-pathological alterations 
of the pituitary also provoke clinical symptoms. Renon 32 and 
Delille have drawn attention to the fact that the decrease of the 
blood-pressure, and increase in the number of pulsations, in fever, 
as also the other symptoms of this condition, such as insomnia, 
heat, perspiration, etc., are due to the alteration of the pituitary 
body. When this is active and healthy it augments blood- 
pressure, according to Oliver and Schafer, 33 Cyon, Livon, 
Gamier, Thaon, Hallion, and Carrion, etc. At the same time the 
pulse is diminished, but when this gland is degenerated the pres- 
sure naturally falls and the pulsation goes up. 



29 Studie anatomic! e sperimentali sulla psyeho-pathologia della glandula 
pituitaria, Reggio Emilia, 1900. 

30Revista di Patol, nerv. e mentale, Nov., 1904 j and La Sperimentale, 
Iviii., 1904. 

31 Th&se de Paris, 1907. 

32 SociSte de therapeutique, Jan. 22, 1902. 
S3 Journal of Physiology, t. xviii, 1895. 



32 Old Age Deferred. 



It is also very interesting that Renon, with his assistants, 
Delille and Azam, 34 were able to increase blood-pressure in 
numerous cases of infectious diseases and diminish the pulse, 
and also produce a marked improvement in the feverish condi- 
tion through the administration of extracts of the pituitary body, 

We must insist on the fact that the thyroid and the pituitary 
body are antagonistic ; the thyroid diminishes, the pituitary aug- 
ments, blood-pressure. The same antagonistic relations exist 
also between the thyroid and adrenals, as already mentioned. 

The adrenals play an important role also in the defense of 
the organism against infections and intoxications, as we will 
point out in a separate chapter. We will only recall here that 
already (1903) Sajous 35 has insisted upon the important role 
of the adrenals in the production of fever. 

The co-operation of the sexual glands in protecting the 
body from infectious disease can be shown by the fact found 
by Professor Cornil, 36 of Paris, that in infectious diseases, such, 
for instance, as typhoid fever, there is frequently sudden men- 
struation, with abundant metrorrhagia, the autopsy often show- 
ing hypertrophy of the corpus luteum. 

Metschnikoff 37 and Matschinski found, after injections of the 
bacilli of tetanus, or of diphtheria, the greatest number of them 
in the ovaries, or in the testicles, of the animals. It is also of 
great interest that Lingard 38 found that the subcutaneous injec- 
tion of testicular extracts into cattle induces a resistance to in- 
fection from bovine plague, against which other cattle can also 
be rendered immune through the serum of the treated animals 
which seems very important to us. Brown-Sequard and d'Arson- 
val employed testicular extracts with good result in tuberculosis, 
and Uspenski in cases of Asiatic cholera. 38 * 



34 Azam: These de Paris, 1907. 

85 "Internal Secretions," vol. i, p. 33. 

36 Quoted after Loisel. 

37 Metschnikoff: Annales de 1'institut Pasteur, 1900. 

38 Lingard: Centralblatt fiir Bacteriologie, vol. xxxviii, Nu. 2, p. 246. 

38 Comptes Rendus de la Societe 1 de Biologic de Paris, Nov. 5, 1896. 



'Immunity Against Infections and Intoxications. 83 

In the chapter on the treatment of old age by organic 
extracts, we submit evidence showing that infectious diseases 
have been treated successfully by several authors by these ex- 
tracts. Many others have also shown that spermin, prepared 
by Professor Poehl from the testicles of various animals, has 
also a marked effect against different infectious diseases, some- 
times even in cases of desperate septicaemia. It has been shown 
by Professor Loewy and Dr. Richter, that after giving spermin 
there is at first a great diminution of the leucocytes in consequence 
of leucolysis, which is soon followed by hyperleucocytosis, and at 
the same time there was considerable increase of alkalinity in 
the blood. 39 

Loewy and Richter were able to cure animals by injecting 
spermin even in cases of experimental pneumonia, where they 
had received three or four times the fatal dose of pneumococci. 
These observers also tried spermin in diphtheria, but here the 
results were less marked, although in some cases where the exact 
fatal dose was given, a cure was effected. According to Pro- 
fessor Poehl 40 the increase of alkalinity of the blood through 
spermin, explains its action to increase immunity against infec- 
tion. Sajous also urges that immunity is closely related with 
alkalinity. 

It is interesting to observe that spermin has also given good 
results in intoxication through leucomames, which play a great 
role in autointoxications in the body. This applies to neurin 
and cholin, as noted by Professor Prince Tarchanow, and Dr. 
Poehl. 

We have already mentioned that the thyroid protects us 
against various poisons, such as chloroform, and it is of interest 
to note that the testicles may also have a similar action; for, as 
Tarchanow has shown in frogs, and also dogs, after injection 
of spermin, these animals were better able to resist chloro- 
form narcosis, and could also withstand a greater dose of it 

39 Richter : Organotherapie. 

40 Poehl: Organotherapie, vol. i, St. Petersburg, 1905. 

3 



Old Age Deferred. 



Weljaminoff found the same also in man. Kriiger found that 
this applied also to ether narcosis. 

The liver, as we shall show later in a separate chapter, also 
antagonizes intoxication. Another organ in close relation to the 
ductless glands especially in infants the thymus, must also be 
considered in the same way as the spleen as taking an important 
part in our protection against infections. As well known, the 
spleen is a foremost organ for the production of protective sub- 
stances, the frequent swelling of the spleen in infectious diseases 
shows its co-operation in the defense of the body (see also Chap- 
ter X). Respecting the thymus, it has been shown by Brieger, 
Kitasato, and Wassermann, that cultures of cholera bacilli lose 
their toxic action in extracts of the thymus. 

There can be no doubt whatever, from the foregoing, that 
our immunity against infections and intoxications depends on 
the intact condition of the ductless glands, the great importance 
of which, as defensive organs, has been demonstrated and ex- 
plained by Professor Sajous in I9O2. 41 As he says : "The over- 
activity of the adrenal system is the inciting factor of leuco- 
cytosis, and, therefore, of phagocytosis ;" and later in the second 
volume: "that the adrenal system, composed of the pituitary 
body, the adrenals, and the thyroid apparatus, constitutes the 
immunizing mechanism of the body." 

When the ductless glands are not in good working condi- 
tion, there are three principal things which can occasion infec- 
tion or intoxication. These are deficient nutrition, exposure to 
cold, and a depressed mental condition. By these the resistance 
of the cells against the energy of the invading microbes is low- 
ered, and the greater the invasion the easier will be their victory. 

We will often refer to this in the chapters on personal 
hygiene, and propose certain remedies for avoiding these pre- 
disposing sources of infection and intoxication. 



41 Sajous: "Internal Secretions," vol. i, p. 624, 1903 (see also vol. ii, p. 
13, 1907). 



CHAPTER IV. 

ON THE AGENCIES THAT GOVERN THE CONDITION OF THE 
NERVOUS SYSTEM AND MENTALITY. 

BY treating with thyroid extracts a child that has remained 
backward in his mental development we can make a curious ob- 
servation. The child who had previously been a cretinous idiot 
will not only improve bodily but also mentally, and he will be 
transformed into an intelligent being with normal mental facul- 
ties. The logical deduction is that the thyroid must influence 
powerfully the condition of our nervous system and mentality. 
Indeed, the physiological activity of the nervous system and men- 
tality depends entirely on the co-operation of the ductless glands 
with internal secretion. In fact, we do not think we are going 
too far in saying that the condition of the nervous system and 
mentality is mainly governed by these glands. The truth of this 
assertion is shown by the fact that any alteration of these glands, 
especially the thyroid and sexual glands, and pituitary body, is 
always followed by alterations of the nervous system. This 
is strikingly sustained by the elaborate researches of Sajous who 
found that the reactions of fluids circulating in all nervous ele- 
ments corresponded with those of internal secretions and par- 
ticularly that of the adrenals. 

Removal of the thyroid also produces far reaching anatomical 
changes in the central part of the nervous system which, as we 
have mentioned, has been described by Albertoni, Tizzoni 1 
Blum, 2 Walter Edmund, 3 and others. These consisted of the 
destruction of nervous cells and nervous processes, chromato- 



1 Arch, per le scienze Mediche, vol. x., p. 45, 1886. 
2 Blum: Virchow's Archiv, 1899. 

s Walter Edmunds: Transact, of the Path. Soc. of London, vol. liii., Part 
3, p. 343, 1902. 

(35) 



36 Old Age Deferred. 



lysis, and also the augmentation of the neuroglia, which increases 
in the same way as the connective tissue in all other organs and 
tissues. 

These changes have been found by Whitwell 4 also in myx- 
cedematous persons. In accordance with these anatomo-patho- 
logical changes we must also expect clinical symptoms, and we 
shall thus find in persons with degenerated thyroids an idiotic 
condition termed cretinism, while in persons suffering from 
myxcedema mentality is considerably altered. Thus Pilcz 5 notes 
as typical symptoms of myxoedema: slowness of thought, 
apathy, defective memory, and somnolence. In fact, after re- 
moval of the thyroid gland or after its degeneration by disease, 
we observe changes in all those functions which, according 
to our present knowledge of physiology, are situated in the 
cortex cerebri, such as intelligence, power of imagination, will 
power, memory, sleep, etc. The thyroid must govern these func- 
tions, as they are seriously damaged after the degeneration of 
this gland. Thus, myxcedematous people think and speak very 
slowly, have a weakened intelligence, are completely apathetic, 
and have no will power, and the memory is either gone or is 
defective. In the same way, as in old age, myxoedematous people 
can remember events which have happened a long time ago, but 
cannot do so as regards recent events all facts we explain by 
assuming they are able to remember what has happened at the 
time prior to the degeneration of the thyroid; but after such 
a condition they are not able to mirror recent events in the 
greater brain. The wonderful effect of the thyroid on intelli- 
gence can be observed, as above mentioned, in backward or 
cretinous children who, by means of the thyroid extract, become 
intelligent children gifted with a better memory. We, ourselves, 
through personal observation and experiments, observed the fact 
that thyroid tablets improve the memory (see also Chapter LIII), 



4 Whitwell: British Med. Journal, p. 730, Feb. 1892. 

5 Quoted after Oppenheim: "Lehrbuch der Nervenkrankheiten," p. 1383, 
Berlin, 1906, 



Agencies Governing Nervous System and Mentality. 37 

and it is interesting to mention here the case of a very stout 
patient who, after the first day of thyroid treatment, felt in such 
a condition of mental activity that he sat down, in the middle of 
the night, at his writing table to compose a scientific article in- 
stead of going to sleep. We did not mention to this gentleman 
a lawyer anything about the effects that the thyroid might have. 
Dr. Hertoghe, the well-known authority on the thyroid gland, 
told us that he sometimes takes before strenuous mental work, 
such as the delivery of a lecture, three or four thyroid tablets at 
a single dose. We must not, however, allow ourselves to be 
seduced to thyroid medication by the action of thyroid on men- 
tality, unless the condition of our gland demands it, for the ad- 
ministration of such extracts in large doses and without special 
diet and precautions may produce disagreeable symptoms, a 
description of which we will give in a special chapter on the treat- 
ment of old age by means of extracts from the organs of animals. 

We have also frequently seen a marked improvement in the 
mental faculties of adults through thyroid treatment. Thus last 
winter, during a stay in Nice, we were consulted by an American 
lady of 69 years who was suffering from arteriosclerosis and 
dizziness. Through thyroid treatment the intelligence of this lady 
improved so much that it became very noticeable to her English 
trained nurse, who told us that whereas before she could do any- 
thing with this mentally torpid woman without comment, now she 
first demanded to know the reason for everything before she com- 
plied with the dietary and hygienic measures the nurse wanted 
her to follow. 

That the thyroid gland affects the intellect is also proved by 
the very important fact that the serum of animals whose thyroid 
has been extirpated, and which is thus antagonistic to the thyroid 
gland, is able to impair the intellect. Dung 5 * noticed this after 
using large doses of such serum in a woman with Graves's disease, 
thereby causing an appearance of great stupidity, loss of memory, 



5Darig: Miinchener Med. Woch., 1908, Nu. 18. 



38 Old Age Deferred. 



and incapability of thinking, so that he had to suspend the treat- 
ment. These symptoms continued for fourteen days after the 
treatment had been discontinued. 

Sleep is also one of the functions controlled by the thyroid, 
and as its changes are able to promote senility, we believe it 
will be well to discuss this more fully in a special chapter 
(XLIII). 

We cannot recall any alteration of the thyroid gland that 
is not accompanied by nervous symptoms. In Graves's disease 
(exaggerated activity of the thyroid) we observe a condition of 
great nervousness, so much so that, according to some authori- 
ties, Graves's disease may be termed a neurasthenia with tachy- 
cardia. There are many women treated for simple hysteria 
who are, in fact, suffering from a partial form of Graves's 
disease with its cardinal symptom: tachycardia. In cases of 
Graves's disease we often find conditions of exaltation, even 
manias, and very frequently, at the very least, great irritability. 
On the other hand, in myxoedema there is, usually, a condition 
of melancholia, and it is interesting in this connection, that in 
a number of cases of melancholia we have found a swelling of 
the thyroid with a cessation of the menstrual flow; such cases 
improved after thyroid treatment, particularly when conjoined 
with treatment by ovarian extracts. In the lunatic asylum of 
Pontiac, Michigan, some 100 cases of swelling of the thyroid 
have been traced out of 600 insane inmates, as we heard on the 
occasion of our visit to our friend, Dr. Edwin S. Sherril, of 
Detroit, four years ago. 

As we have seen already, the thyroid stands in very close 
relation to the ovaries, and, as we have often stated, the altera- 
tion of the ovaries is very apt to produce a swelling of the thy- 
roid, as witnessed during menstruation, puberty, pregnancy, the 
puerperium, lactation, and the climacteric. Not only may the 
thyroid swell in many of these conditions, but the mental sys- 
tem is also changed during each of these processes. Sometimes 
it may be simple irritability, but at times the changes of the 



Agencies Governing Nervous System and Mentality. 39 

mind may develop into lunacy. Thus, in young girls, we occa- 
sionally see in the years of puberty mental changes, such as a 
tendency to wandering away from home, and even cases of 
lunacy, the so-called psychoses of puberty. Similar cases of 
insanity are equally frequent in pregnancy, and during the cli- 
macterium or after the experimental climacterium castration. 
Again, insanity is not unfrequent in cases of degenerative dis- 
ease of the ovaries; to such an extent, indeed, that sometimes 
a gynaecologist can treat a case of insanity in women better than 
a specialist in psychiatry. Not only in women, but in men 
changes in the sexual organ always produce far-reaching changes 
in the mind. Chronic gonorrhoea is the more to be feared on 
account of its invariably involving the prostate, the inflammation 
of which, in the same way as that of the testicles, is usually 
followed by symptoms of neurasthenia. If we now note this and 
remember that, according to Baldwin, in most cases of hysteria 
we may find at the autopsy alterations in the ovaries, we shall 
understand that the author of this book did not go too far when 
he stated, in a communication to the Belgian Congress of Neu- 
rologists, in Brussels, in 1906, that all cases of neurasthenia and 
hysteria are based upon pathological anatomical alterations, and 
that it is not true that, in contra-distinction to all other diseases, 
these should be the only ones without any pathological ana- 
tomical foundations. In fact, in nearly all cases of neurasthenia 
or hysteria we shall find changes in some of the ductless glands, 
particularly the thyroid, sexual, or pituitary body, if we only 
take the trouble to search for them. The degenerative altera- 
tions of the pituitary body are, as a rule, followed by the symp- 
toms of the disease called acromegaly, and this also presents all 
the symptoms of a neurasthenic or hysteric condition. 

From the foregoing we shall understand why so many 
people, whether male or female possibly the latter in greater 
number who live in total sexual abstinence, present symptoms 
of neurasthenia or hysteria; for it has been shown by Rigaud 
and also by Mingazzini, that animals, living in total sexual 



40 Old Age Deferred. 



abstinence, present alterations in the epithelia of the sexual 
glands (see Chapter XLVII). 

It would be simply hypocrisy and unworthy of a scientific 
work which should always aspire to reveal the truth, were we 
to deny the fact that many old bachelors and spinsters present 
a series of nervous symptoms, especially dyspepsia and hyper- 
chlorhydria and pains in the stomach, far more than other per- 
sons, which we must explain by the action of impulses coming 
from the sexual organs to the sympathetic and pneumogastric, 
the principal nerves of the stomach and intestines, and thus pro- 
ducing a hypersesthesia of the nerves of the stomach. In such 
persons some kinds of food, well digested by a normal stomach, 
will act as an injurious foreign body, and be felt as such by 
the over-sensitive stomach nerves, and the gastric glands will 
respond with a large flow of secretion and much acid upon 
agencies that produce no such stimulation in a normal stomach. 

That the sexual glands also influence the intellect is best 
proved by the observation that in cases of testicular or ovarian 
insufficiency intelligence is often diminished. Thus we were con- 
sulted by the parents of a young man of eighteen years who was 
mentally backward ; he could not remember anything ; his arms 
and legs were abnormally long, but his body short, thus resem- 
bling a eunuch's and indeed I found his testicles were not yet 
descended. His voice was that of a child, and he also exhibited 
the other symptoms of testicular insufficiency described in the 
second chapter of this book. 

On the other hand we may see a precocious highly developed 
intellect in children with a premature sexual development. We 
know of a boy of six years who tried to have sexual intercourse 
with a little girl of the same age, and who at the age of four and 
one-half years knew all the capitals of the world by heart. 
Hence the education of precociously bright children should be 
especially guarded, for they can become great men but also not 
rarely, if neglected, great criminals. 

As, however, in these days of scepticism we do not believe 



Agencies Governing Nervous System and Mentality. 4i 

in anything until demonstrated by experiments (often forgetting 
the fact that what does for dogs or rabbits does not always do 
for man) which should only assist our judgment, but not exclu- 
sively govern it, we shall have to prove the correctness of our 
clinical observations on the influence of the sexual glands i.e., 
on the nervous system and mentality by experiment, and we 
believe we have sufficient facts at hand to do so. 

About a hundred years ago it was shown by Gall who was 
attacked by several authors, among them Rieger, as innovations 
always are, but who was also successfully defended by the cele- 
brated German nerve specialist and philosopher, Moebius 6 that 
castrated animals or persons have an alteration in the back part 
of the skull indicating an impoverishment of the cerebellum. And, 
indeed, he produces his own evidence and that of several other 
authorities, Darnecy, Rousseau, etc., which gives the history of 
several autopsies on castrated persons, all of whom showed an 
atrophy of this structure. In cases where only one of the tes- 
ticles was destroyed, this atrophy was always present in the 
hemisphere of the small brain on the opposite side. 

It has been found by numerous authorities that the skull 
and brain of castrated animals and persons is smaller than the 
normal. Gall 7 noted this fact, and after him Vimont, 8 from 
experiments on animals; and, according to the latter observer 
castration of both sides produces a considerable diminution of 
the cerebellum. Leuret and Hoffmann 9 found a diminution of 
the head in horses, sheep, and pigs after such an operation, 
and that the other parts of the skeleton are always altered is a 
fact recorded by a large number of authorities as stated already. 

As we have pointed out above, any alteration of the testi- 



6 Moebius: "Die Wirkungen der Castration," Halle, 1902. 
7 Gall: "Anatomic et Physiologie du Systems nerveux," T. iii., p. 108* 
Paris, 1818. 

8 Vimont: "TraitS de Phrenologie humaine et comparee," two vols. el 
atlas, vol. ii., p. 233, Paris, 1835. 

9 Hoffmann : "Ueber die Castration der Hausthiere Schneidermtihla Thier 
medecin," Vortrage ii., 12. 1892. 



42 Old Age Deferred. 



cles or ovaries is followed by nervous disturbances, and, conse- 
quently, the total removal of these glands produces far more 
deleterious effects, and these will vary according to whether such 
persons have been castrated at an early age or later. In these 
latter cases nervous disorders will be more acutely felt, and as 
the celebrated French authority, Dupuytren, states, melancholia 
is a common phenomenon in castrated men. According to 
more recent observations in cases of enlargement of the pros- 
tate that have been treated by castration, the patients exhibit 
melancholia. We may here remark that the testicles and the 
prostate are in close relation, the latter always becoming atro- 
phied after castration. There is experimental evidence to show 
that a too large amount of testicular or ovarian secretion may 
produce toxic effects. Thus, Loisel, by injecting testicular or 
ovarian extracts into animals, could produce toxic symptoms 
in every instance. This may account for the fact mentioned 
previously that persons living for a long time in complete sexual 
abstinence, occasionally exhibit symptoms of disorder of the 
nervous system. 

The marvelous influence of the sexual glands on the mind 
and character is at once apparent if we consider the aberration 
from the normal of the castrated person. The authorities who 
have studied the eunuchs in Egypt and the Skopze in Russia 
(a religious sect who adopt castration as a tenet), found typical 
characteristics in these people that distinguished them from 
the normal. 

Thus, as a rule (and as stated by Moebius), the biography 
of remarkable eunuchs of the old and middle ages shows that 
they are entirely deficient in courage, which seems to be de- 
pendent entirely on the possession of testicles, and the same fact 
may be noted also in the case of the lower animals. Thus, an 
ox is a coward compared to a bull, and an ordinary horseman 
prefers to ride a mare rather than a stallion. The best means of 
taming certain animals is by depriving them of their testicles at 
an early age. Intelligence also is much influenced, not only by 



Agencies Governing Nervous System and Mentality. 43 

the thyroid, as already shown, but by the testicles. Thus per- 
sons of literary or other fame, such as artists and the like, have 
become impaired in their capacity after castration : Abelard, for 
example. 

Moebius, in the history of the world, could find no castrates 
of great intelligence. Knowledge gained by diligent labor is 
not referred to here. We merely wish to express our conviction 
that great ideas, such as are found in men of genius, are impos- 
sible in men devoid of their testicles ; and it appears out of the 
question to imagine such men as Napoleon, Goethe, or others, 
as castrates. On the contrary, we are inclined to believe that 
such great men had a private life that would have rendered them 
unfit for the position of superintendent of an American Sunday 
School. 

Courage is a specific feature that can only be found in a man 
who is still in possession of healthy sexual glands ; it is entirely 
wanting in eunuchs. Cowardice, superstition, laziness, avarice, 
vanity, cruelty, and other bad qualities are typical features in 
eunuchs. Our friend Sir Hugh Adcock, formerly physician to 
the late Shah of Persia, told us that his own experience with 
hundreds of eunuchs showed him that they all had these bad 
qualities. Capacity for hard work, generosity, kind-heartedness, 
and religion may be found in persons who are in the possession 
of healthy, vigorous, sexual glands; but by exhaustion, after 
sexual excesses, a condition may be created analogous to myx- 
cedema after previous Graves's disease. This exhaustion of the 
sexual glands may create a condition in which some of the feat- 
ures of the castrated may appear. This is noticeable in the 
character of many of the dignitaries of oriental countries who 
possess large harems, and also in occidental countries in many 
men who lead a life of debauchery. The influence of the pituitary 
is shown by changes that invariably occur in the nervous system 
and mind after any alteration in it. Thus, in two millionaires 
suffering from acromegaly we have observed great stinginess. 
We do not intimate that this is a characteristic of millionaires, 



44 Old Age Deferred. 



but these gentlemen were quite the reverse before becoming 
afflicted with their disease. In one case of acromegaly, for the 
knowledge of which we are indebted to Dr. Dercum of Philadel- 
phia, there was a great distrust of anything new, even the most 
useful of innovations. This caused great discontent among the 
gentleman's business partners, although he himself showed this 
disposition only after the symptoms of his disease were apparent. 
In acromegaly there exists a hyperactivity of the pituitary ; Renon 
was able to produce the disease by giving large doses of pituitary 
extracts, and Hochenegg obtained good results in his treatment 
of it by extirpating the pituitary body. 

Extirpation of the adrenals is also followed by important 
alterations in the nervous system, as was noted by Jersoni and 
others. Also, in Addison's disease, which is accompanied by a 
degeneration of these glands, we notice a diminution of the intel- 
lect together with a general mental depression. 

The influence of the ductless glands on character, and the 
change in the same after alterations in those glands, may easily 
lead to crime, as the two principal barriers against crime are 
will power, by which we control our passions ; and sound judg- 
ment, by which we distinguish right from wrong. It is evident 
that a cretinous or myxoedematous person will have no great 
will power, for this, as already shown, is dependent on the thy- 
roid secretion; nor do they possess intelligent sound judgment 
enough to realize what is right ; and, as the possible consequences 
of their defective action, castrated persons, as above shown, are 
more attracted to crimes due to avarice or cruelty. Those who 
are interested in this question may read our lecture delivered 
before the Medical Jurisprudence Society in Philadelphia, 10 in 
which we endeavored to prove in detail our assertions that the 
origin of crime is due to nervous changes succeeding alterations 
of the ductless glands. As persons of advanced age often have a 
complete atrophy of the sexual glands, changes in their char- 
acter may be explained on these grounds. 

10 Journal of the American Med. Association, May 10, 1907. 



CHAPTER V. 

ON THE INFLUENCE OF THE SEXUAL GLANDS UPON VITALITY 

AND LONG LIFE. 

WHEN we study the history of people who present a youth- 
ful appearance late in life, and reach an extraordinary old 
age, up to 1 20 or 140, or even 160, we are surprised at 
the unmistakable evidence of a strong sexual activity in most 
of them, which is only possible by being possessed of healthy 
and active sexual glands; and thus it would appear that the 
possession of such glands may impart a strong vitality and the 
best chances for a long life. That such is the case we will en- 
deavor to show by evidence of an experimental nature, and also 
by facts gathered from observation of the long lives of the 
patriarchs. 

When the sexual glands of a person are extirpated, such 
castrated people, be it man or woman, soon get old. This we 
can see in the case of eunuchs who get wrinkled even in their 
youth, such also get fat, and present other symptoms of prema- 
ture old age; and the same is observable in women whose 
ovaries have been removed. 

Matthew Paris, 1 the historian, in his description of eunuchs 
and the appearance of early old age, tells us that in 1253 Fred- 
erick II, Emperor of Germany, married Isabella, sister of the 
King of England, and he presented to his wife several Moorish 
slaves who were eunuchs, for servants, who looked like old 
masks. Pelikan 2 also mentions that the whole community of 
castrated Skopze in Russia, has a withered aspect; and in his 

1 Quoted after Moebius, "Die Wirkungen der Castration," p. 43, Halle, 
1907. 

2 Pelican: "Gerichlach Med. Untersuchenger iiber das Skopzentham in 
Russland," Giessen, 1876. 

(45) 



46 Old Age Deferred. 



book Merschejewski relates that their skin is withered and 
wrinkled, and that they look worn out, aged, and senile. 

Besides provoking senility at an early period, castration or a 
degenerated condition of the sexual glands, especially in women, 
is able to produce alterations in organs, which are of great impor- 
tance to the vitality of individuals, and to a long life, such as 
the heart, stomach, intestines, and liver. Experienced authorities 
have noted heart troubles in dysmenorrhcea and amenorrhcea, 
and also neurosis of the heart with long, lasting alterations of 
the female sexual glands. Professor Kisch 3 also noted tachy- 
cardia in such conditions. Professor Landau 4 has very often 
observed a degeneration of the heart after myoma of the uterus. 
Lehman and Strassmann, in the Berlin Charite, have seen such 
a degenerated condition of the heart in 44 per cent, of patients 
with myomas of the uterus. 

It has been shown by experiments that there is a close 
relation between the condition of the ovaries and the heart. 
Professor Hegar 5 has demonstrated that castration, or simple 
tugging of the ovaries, is able to produce a diminution of the 
heart beats, or even a stoppage of the heart. Lucas Champion- 
niere has also noted the same after a tearing of the ovaries, and 
Mariagalli and Negri have also noted tachycardia after lapa- 
rotomy. 

Very important also are the relations between the ovaries 
and the digestive organs. Kretschy observed, in a case of fistula 
in the stomach, that alterations of the female sexual organs 
regularly produced also alterations of the digestive functions; 
for instance, during menstruation there is always an increased 
flow of hydrochloric acid. The same has been found by 
Fleischer, who noted during this period a sluggishness in diges- 
tion, which improved after menstruation. 



3 Kisch: "Das Geschlestrlehen der Frau," second edition, Vienna, 1908. 

4 Quoted after Kisch. 

5 Quoted after Kisch ; as also other authors on the relation between heart 
and stomach, and the ovaries. 



Sexual Glands Vitality and Long Life. 47 

Tanecki found dyspeptic troubles in cases of retroflexion 
of the uterus, and Eisenheart has observed the disappearance of 
acute gastric troubles after a cure of retroflexion. 

P. Muller also declares that there are intimate relations 
between the sexual glands and the digestive organs. He also 
observed dyspeptic troubles during menstruation ; and Professor 
Leyden has noted neuralgia and hyperaesthesia of the stomach 
in young girls after menstrual troubles. 

Habitual chronic constipation, which is so frequent after 
a degenerated condition of the sexual glands, points to the exist- 
ence of close relations between these organs and the intestines. 

Based upon clinical observations, we have advanced the 
theory that alterations of the ovaries are able to produce altera- 
tions also of the liver, and the circulation of the bile, with forma- 
tion of gall-stones. Castration also produces alterations of the 
thyroid: first, its hyperactivity with increase of colloid sub- 
stance, and, afterward, its degeneration. 

Castrated animals or persons seem to offer less resistance 
to infection, which may be on account of the connection, as 
shown by the experiments of Metschnikoff 6 and others, that 
the testicles are altered in infections, which has been shown to 
be equally the case with the ovaries (Professor Cornil). The 
sexual glands, as the ductless glands in general, have the duty 
also of protecting the body against the various kinds of intoxi- 
cation and infections, as already emphasized. 

From the foregoing there can be no doubt that degenerated 
conditions of the sexual glands, by producing alterations in 
important organs, diminish vitality and the chances of an 
advanced old age. 

This seems also to apply to males, for there is no evidence 
showing that any eunuch has reached a very advanced age, 
whereas there is plenty of evidence of persons with strong sexual 
glands having lived far beyond 100 years. The vitality of 
persons if totally castrated is, as a rule, diminished. 

Metschnikoff: Loc. cit. 



48 'Old Age Deferred. 



Again if we study the history of persons who attained the 
maximum span of life, we find many evidences of the existence 
of strong sexual impulses. Thomas Parr, who lived to nearly 
153, has been accused of having committed a sexual offense in 
his iO2d year, for which he was found guilty and punished. 
Reaching even a greater age, his sexual appetite does not seem 
to have diminished, for he married, eighteen years after, a widow, 
who said she could discover nothing that would betray his great 
age. 

Drakenberg, a Dane, who is buried in the cathedral in 
Aarhus, Denmark, lived 146 years, and reached this advanced age 
although he was more often drunk than sober. When he 
was in he married a woman of 60, and after she died he fell 
in love in his i3Oth year with a young peasant girl; but this 
blooming flower of the Jutland peninsula, famous for its fresh 
and healthy girls, refused her ancient wooer, who, nothing 
daunted, tried his luck with several other young maidens but 
with no better success; therefore he had perforce to remain 
a widower, and he lived an additional sixteen years. Possibly 
if he had addressed widows or elderly spinsters, he might have 
succeeded; but it is very instructive that this ancient Methu- 
selah insisted on marrying a young girl, which certainly speaks 
in favor of strong sexual feelings in so old a man, and, indeed, 
we may say it is an object lesson to us to observe that these 
ancients were always anxious to marry again so soon as they 
became widowers. That it was more than a mere formality, 
or bond of platonic affection, was attested to by Thomas Parr's 
wife when he was in his i3Oth year. 

If many children be considered a sign of sexual activity 
and capacity, these very old men distinguished themselves in 
this respect, as most of them had numerous progeny. Several 
had a score of children after they were 80. Peter Albrecht, who 
lived to be 123, married in his 8$th year, and had 7 children. 
Another patriarch, Gurgen Douglas, born in Marstrand, near 
Gothenburg, in Sweden, who reached to 120 years and 7 months, 



Sexual Glands Vitality and Long Life. 49 

married in .his 85th year and had 8 children, one of which was 
born when he was in his iO3rd year. This child was an idiot, 
but as it is very interesting to note, otherwise physically well 
developed. 

An Italian, Baron Baravicino de Capellis, died in 1770 at 
Meran, a climatic resort in the Tyrol (Austria), in his io7th 
year. He had 4 wives, the first of whom he married when 
he was 14, and the last when he was 84. He had 7 children, 
and it is an interesting fact that his wife was pregnant when 
he died. 

As an English paper has reported, in 1796 there was a 
shoemaker, R. Glan, living near Philadelphia, Pa., who died 
at 114, and never missed a Sunday service. At his decease his 
third wife was but 30, and his virile powers were normal. 

We need not be too skeptical as to the legitimacy of the 
children of fathers of such advanced age for reasons we will 
mention later. Examples of fathers at ages above 60 or 70 
are not so exceedingly rare. A very good example of this is 
that of a crowned head of one of the European countries, mar- 
ried morganatically, who, in his 72nd year, was presented by 
his wife with a child, and nobody who is acquainted with the 
powerful constitution of this monarch and his predilection for 
the fair sex will doubt his happiness as a father. He is noted 
for his marvelous intellect, which, again, is so frequently met 
with in persons with very active sexual glands. 

Several of these ancient patriarchs, at the autopsy, pre- 
sented a wonderfully good state of preservation of the various 
organs. Thomas Parr died in his I53d year, and his autopsy 
was made by one of the greatest physicians in the history of 
medicine the celebrated Harvey, the discoverer of the circulation 
of the blood. Harvey found every organ in this wonderful old 
man in perfect condition. His death was attributed by Harvey 
to over-eating, as Parr had always lived a very frugal life. The 
King of England invited this astonishing personage to London in 
his I52d year, as he wanted to know this most interesting of his 



50 Old Age Deferred. 



subjects; but the rich food he received in the royal household 
did not prove beneficial to him, and though his 152 years of frugal 
life were unable to kill him, nine months of an opposite style 
of living succeeded in so doing. 

We should not wish to omit mentioning again the impor- 
tant fact that, with few exceptions, the persons who lived to 
such an extraordinary age were married, and some of them 
three or four times, which again serves to show us the great 
importance of marriage as a means to reach a good, old age. 

We have quoted these instances of longevity from Hufe- 
land, 7 one of the greatest German physicians of the eighteenth 
century, of whose truthfulness there can be no doubt. The 
great German physiologist, Pfliiger, also quoted some of the 
above examples of great age in his address in celebration of the 
birthday of Emperor William II, at the University of Bonn. 
When Parr had been found guilty of a misdemeanor in his 
iO2d year facts were adduced in the courts which showed that, as 
Pfliiger says, this "100 jahrige durchaus die Eigenschaften eines 
Kraftegen jugendlichen mannes besass" (the man of 100 years 
really had the qualities of a powerful young man). Pfliiger 
quotes this from Flourens, and we were pleased to find an 
account of the autopsy of the celebrated patriarch in a letter 
from Harvey, himself, to his nephew, published by the Syden- 
hatn Society 8 : "The body was in such a good condition in a 
man of 153 that the cartilages of the chest bones were not yet 
ossified." Harvey put it: "The cartilages were soft and flexi- 
ble," black hair on the forearms, and the organs apparently 
healthy. Probably the fact that the testes, as Harvey says, "were 
sound and large," had something to do with it. He was also an 
affectionate husband, and to quote Harvey again, "His wife told 
me that until twelve years ago he never ceased to embrace her 
frequently" ; that is, when he was 140 years old ! At the autopsy 



7 Huf eland : LOG. cit. 

8 The works of William Harvey, M.D., edition of the Sydenham Society, 
p. 590, London, 1847. 



Sexual Glands Vitality and Long Life. 51 

of John Bayley, of Northampton, who died 130 years old, Dr. 
James Keill 9 found his testes of large size. 

We have also knowledge of a very interesting case, that 
of an Irishman, an ex-navy man, who, according to the admiralty 
official statistics, was 113 years old, and whose body was dis- 
sected by Professor Cunningham, Professor of Anatomy of 
Edinburgh University. As Dr. Cunningham, himself, told us, 
the testes were sound and healthy looking, and the cartilages 
of the chest bone not yet ossified. Death was not due to old 
age, but to a prostate abscess, except for which the body was in 
good condition. 

Metschnikoff also mentions in his "Etudes sur la Nature 
Humaine" examples of old men between 94 and 104 years, who 
suffered from copious spermatorrhoea, and in whose semen he has 
found a great quantity of spermatozoa. He and Dr. Weinberg 
observed similar conditions in old dogs of 18 to 22 years of 
age, one of whom, just before his death, had shown marked 
sexual tendencies. 10 Saverio Spangaro, 11 examining the testicles 
of a number of old men, found many of them atrophied, but 
others showed microscopically no difference to the testicles of 
younger individuals; there were only slight microscopical 
changes. This again proves our theory, that old age is not due 
to the degeneration of one, but of several glands with internal 
secretion, similarly to other diseases of these glands, like dia- 
betes, acromegaly, etc. 

The above facts of the preservation of the sexual glands in 
advanced old age, proves also the important fact that though 
the actual age be there, the symptoms of it may not be very 
pronounced if but the sexual glands are in good order. Of 
course the condition of the other ductless glands is of impor- 
tance, for old age must be regarded as the consequence of the 
degeneration of the different ductless glands, and not of one 
gland alone. 



9Philosoph. Transactions, xxv., 1706. 

10 Essais optimistes, p. 47, Paris, 1907. 

11 S. Spangaro : Anatomische, Hef te, Heft lx., p. 630, Wiesbaden, 1902. 



52 Old Age Deferred. 



When we consider the splendid health enjoyed by most of 
these patriarchs and the good condition of their organs, why 
should we deny the possibility that they were disposing of at 
least one lively spermatozoon, and thus we shall have no reason 
to doubt their happiness as fathers. 

We must also add that the truth of the extraordinary age 
of these persons has been proved, in most cases, by documents, 
sometimes even in courts of law; also by the recollections of 
very old people who, in their own early childhood, personally 
knew them. 

That people with strong sexual impulses very often reach 
a very advanced old age, we can often observe. There are 
plenty of examples in the history of the world. Thus, the 
greatest debauchery did not prevent Louis XV becoming very 
old, and the Emperor Tiberius lived to be 78 after his notorious 
life. However, in the same way as with alcohol and tobacco, 
we would here repeat "Quod licet Jovi, non licet bovi" (or, 
"what suits Peter may not suit Paul"). 

We may also refer to a few instances coming under our 
own observation. A few years ago one of our confreres at 
Carlsbad died, 96 years of age. His intellect was perfect, and 
a few months before his death we had a consultation together 
about a patient who was 83, at which he gave evidence of a 
wonderfully clear intelligence. In his behavior toward the fair 
sex (whom he much admired) he showed a chivalry and gal- 
lantry outvying men of half his age. Up to the last he never 
failed to attend a theatrical performance when there was an 
operetta or a ballet. There was nothing to prevent his attain- 
ing a greater age, but, falling in his room, he contracted a frac- 
ture of the femur, followed by pneumonia, which put an end to 
his medical practice, for this wonderful old man in his advanced 
years paid his daily visits, which he only intended to cease, as 
he said, when he reached 100. 

A prominent member of the aristocracy of one of the north- 
ern countries of Europe, who is at present 90 years old, hav- 



Sexual Glands Vitality and Long Life. 53 

ing been reproached several years ago by his relatives for his 
amorous advances to the fair sex, gave the answer, "You do 
not know what it means to be an old man with the body of a 
young man." This old man still rides on horseback and still 
goes shooting. The fact that he looks a handsome man of 60 
may be explained on the basis of our above observation. 

In advanced old age the preservation of the sentiments 
toward the opposite sex, which allows us to presume the pres- 
ence, and not yet extinction, of an internal secretion of the sex- 
ual glands, is often found in combination with a high intellect. 
This is also proved by the example of Goethe in his 83d year, 
for in his old age his intellect would have been creditable to a 
man of 30. When he was over 81 he astonished his audience 
by the uninterrupted current of his ideas, also the extraordinary 
richness of his inventions. 12 Commenting on the above, Moebius, 
in an interesting biography on Goethe, says : "From the physio- 
logical standpoint the astonishment evoked by the works of this 
old man is almost greater than that about his juvenile activity." 
He finished the second part of "Faust" when he was over 82. 
As Metschnikoff says: "It is love that was the greatest stimu- 
lant of the genius of Goethe," for it is well known that Goethe 
was an ardent admirer of the fair sex. When he was 74 he was 
passionately in love with Ulricke Lewetzow, who was still in her 
teens. He danced like a youth when in her company, and it 
was at this time that he wrote to his son that he had never, 
up to this, felt so well in mind and body. He wanted to marry 
the young girl, and the Grand Duke of Saxe- Weimar asked in 
Goethe's name for her hand; but the mother was not willing 
to allow a marriage between persons of such divergence in age. 
So much was Goethe in love with the young girl that his dis- 
appointment contributed to develop a serious illness (Ecker- 
mann). Even when he was much older he again renewed his 
relations with Miss Marianne Young, and was then, to a certain 
extent, consoled for his disappointment over Miss Lewetzow. 
12 Eckermann : Quoted after Metschnikoff. 



54 Old Age Deferred. 



He preserved his admiration for the fair sex until his death, 
and even in the closing day of his life in his delirium he called 
out, "Look at that beautiful woman's head with dark curls on 
a black background!" 13 

A similar retention of the sexual sense we see in the 
advanced years of Victor Hugo, whose admiration of the oppo- 
site sex continued till his death. Ibsen, the celebrated Norwe- 
gian dramatist, kept up a well-known correspondence with a 
young lady whom he met at Marienbad a short time before he 
died in advanced old age. 

Sometimes in women of extreme age instances are quoted 
that would seem to indicate that in them also the activity of the 
sexual glands may not have been extinct. It is stated that 
Ninon de 1'Enclos 14 was in her QOth year still so beautiful that 
a young abbe fell desperately in love with her. We know an 
Italian lady of 69 who is still good-looking, presenting the 
appearance of 45, and she still menstruates. That she was sex- 
ually active is shown by the fact that she has 12 children. There 
is more fire in the eyes of this Italian matron than in many 
women of half her age. That the possession of active sexual 
glands influences the looks very much can also be proved by 
the pale, yellow-gray and aged looks of even young women 
suffering from serious chronic diseases of the sexual glands, 
and also of women who have caused these organs to degenerate 
owing to sexual excesses. 

The fact that persons who have attained advanced old age 
in robust health and perfect intellect often show signs of pre- 
servation of the sexual glands, permits the inference, especially 
considering the foregoing examples, that a perfect condition of 
these glands is an important factor toward vitality and long life, 
for which reason we devote a long chapter to the best hygiene 
of the sexual glands (see Chapter XLIX). 

13 Lewes : Vol. ii., p. 372 ; quoted from Metschnikoff. 

14 Quoted from Professor Kisch. 



CHAPTER VI. 
ON HEREDITY AND LONGEVITY. 

WE occasionally witness the peculiar fact that persons 
who live very moderately and eat very sparingly, and who totally 
abstain from alcohol, nevertheless become old before their time, 
while, on the other hand, there are those who, in spite of having 
been addicted all their lives to the pleasures of a bounteous table 
and unstinted quantity of wine or spirits, yet enjoy a green old 
age. We had an opportunity of observing an old gentleman of 
76 (some say he was really older) belonging to our own pro- 
fession, with whom we had the pleasure of traveling from Lis- 
bon to Paris in the same small railway compartment. This 
gentleman, notwithstanding his age, was in full possession of all 
his mental powers, of which he has given remarkable proofs 
in his recent publications which might have well been written by 
a man younger by some scores of years, and which, in fact, 
convey that impression. This gentleman's age cannot be gauged 
by his words, neither was it shown by the hearty appetite with 
which he partook of the six courses of the dinner, nor by the 
enjoyment with which he disposed of his bottle of claret ; and he 
smoked a large cigar afterward with such appreciation that we 
began to envy the old man. We almost believe that he stood 
the long-continuous journey of thirty-seven hours much better 
than we did, and we were surprised at his fresh appearance the 
following morning after the discomforts of a night in a small 
berth of the Compagnie Internationale des Wagons-lits, half 
the size of the ordinary American Pullman car berth. We must 
remark, however, at once, that such instances as these are excep- 
tional. Nature is always just, and even here we have an illus- 
tration of the Golden Rule, for such persons inherit the health 
of their fathers. 

(55) 



56 Old Age Deferred. 



Even character and appearance may be inherited by off- 
spring. The height of parents is, as a rule, though not in every 
case, inherited by their children, as also are many features of 
their external appearance. As we have seen in the previous 
chapter, the size of an individual and his outward appearance 
are dependent on the internal secretions of the ductless glands; 
and as these qualities are inherited, so we may presume that the 
properties of the ductless glands, which produce these effects, 
may also be inherited; and that this is not a vague supposition 
is demonstrated, we think, in a paper we read on the subject 
of heredity at the German Congress of Internal Medicine at 
Leipzig, in 1907, in which we showed that the alterations of 
the ductless glands are inherited with remarkable frequency. 
Thus Graves's disease can frequently be inherited, and the chil- 
dren descended from such parents, especially after puberty, 
often have a small goiten In such cases a slight protuberance of 
the eyes can also be noticed; they are frequently very nervous, 
and any sudden shock will be sufficient to induce a typical case 
of Graves's disease. Oesterreicher 1 found 9 cases of exophthal- 
mic goiter in one family. The frequent instances of heredity in 
Graves's disease are insisted upon by Brouwer 2 and other authors. 

Degenerative changes of the pituitary body may also be 
inherited. Thus Bonardi and Schwoner and others also showed 
cases of acromegaly of hereditary origin. 

Diabetes is, as we have said, a disease of the ductless glands, 
and we have especially emphasized, on previous occasions, how 
frequently, if not invariably, diabetes originates through heredity. 
We have also shown in a communication published in the 
Practitioner, of London, in October, 1903, that the children of 
diabetic persons have an inherited tendency to alimentary glyco- 
suria, which occurs very frequently among them. 



1 Quoted after Moebius. "Die Basedow'sche Krankheit," second edition, 
1906. 

2 Quoted after Oppenheim, "Lehrbuch des Nervenkrankheiten," Berlin, 
1906. 



Heredity and Longevity. 57 

Myxcedematous persons, as a rule, have children displaying 
symptoms of congenital myxoedema, and cretins have cretinous 
children. The very interesting case has been published of a 
woman who, until the age of 40, had two normal children. She 
then acquired a goiter, and the child that was born later was a 
cretin with a goiter (Lanz). 

Parents suffering from diseases in which the thyroid has 
degenerated, such as chronic tuberculosis, malaria, syphilis, and 
other cachectic diseases, have children whose growth is slow, 
and who remain backward physically and mentally. Such chil- 
dren easily acquire any infectious disease. Tuberculosis, as we 
have shown at the International Congress on Tuberculosis in 
Paris, in 1905, is remarkably frequent among them. We can 
easily appreciate the fact, if we realize that the children of such 
parents in whom the thyroid has degenerated through disease are 
born usually with a congenital atrophy of the thyroid gland, which 
has been proved by Gamier and Perrando. These children have 
inherited from their forefathers the bad qualities of their thy- 
roid, and this will also explain why such children, when fully 
grown up, will not remain, as a rule, for so long a time as youth- 
ful looking as other persons who have inherited healthy thy- 
roids ; they early become aged-looking and, also, as a rule, their 
lives are shortened owing to their tendency to contract easily all 
kinds of infections. 

Evidence founded on experiments is at our disposal to 
prove our assertion that irregularities of the thyroid are inherited 
by offspring. Professor Lanz, 3 of Amsterdam, formerly an 
assistant of Professor Kocher in Bern, has extirpated the thy- 
roid gland of goats, and he found that in each case the young 
of such animals, as compared with normal kids of the same 
age, remained backward in growth. There can thus be no doubt 
that the qualities of the ductless glands of the parents are in- 
herited by their descendants. 



3 Beitrage zur klin. Chirurgie, xiv., p. 1, 1905 e 



58 Old Age Deferred. 



We often find diseases of the various ductless glands 
present among- members of the same families. We can trace, 
not infrequently, diabetes, Graves's disease, etc., and acromegaly, 
occurring in different members of the same family, and this 
will be observed most often in the case of diabetes and Graves's 
disease. Thus I have observed in the case of two fathers (com- 
ing from the same city in Hungary, but belonging to different 
nationalities) diabetes, and their daughters had protuberant eyes; 
they had a small goiter, and the typical fingers characteristic of 
Graves's disease, emaciated and pointed like those of the 
Madonna of Perugino, which have been mentioned already by 
other authors as symptoms of Graves's disease. There was no 
tachycardia as yet in either of these two cases which had Graves's 
disease. Very probably any mental shock, as in so many other 
cases, would here have caused sudden development into Graves's 
disease. 

We have already noted that in syphilis and other cachectic 
diseases such as alcoholism, malaria, tuberculosis, etc., the thy- 
roid gland becomes degenerated (Gamier, Hertoghe, etc.), and 
that the foetuses of such parents demonstrate congenital atrophy 
of the thyroid (Gamier 4 and Perrando 5 ). We can thus under- 
stand the observations of Hertoghe, who found that nearly all 
cases of infantile or congenital myxcedema were born of parents 
suffering from the above-named diseases. Of very great value, 
also, is the observation of Professor Pel. 6 He diagnosed a case 
of syphilis in the father, myxoedema in the daughter and 
acromegaly in the son. 

As shown by many observers, including ourself, the duct- 
less glands stand together in a very close relationship, and thus we 
may find that when one member of a family shows an alteration 
of the ductless glands, we may discover in the same family other 
members affected by alterations of the same or other ductless 



4 Gamier: "Les maladies infectieuses," Th&se de Paris, 1899. 
6 Perrando: "Sulla struttura della Tiroide," Sassari, 1900. 
6 Pel: Berl. klin. Wochenschrift, 44% 1905, 



Heredity and Longevity. 59 

glands. The case of Pel is a fine illustration of this point; the 
syphilis of the father with its morbid influence on his thyroid 
resulting in the hereditary transmission of a degenerated thyroid 
to the daughter, and the consequent supervention of myxoedema. 
The son had an altered condition of the pituitary body, and 
thus developed acromegaly. The altered condition of the 
pituitary body may have been secondary to the previous altera- 
tion of the thyroid inherited congenitally, if we take into con- 
sideration the fact that, as I showed in a communication to the 
International Congress of Medicine in Madrid, in 1903, acro- 
megaly is due to primary alterations in the thyroid which, in 
the same way as is demonstrated by experiments on animals, 
may lead secondarily to alterations of the pituitary closely con- 
nected with the former gland. The qualities of the sexual glands 
can also be inherited. Thus, there are cases of mothers whose 
menstruation began very early, i.e., at the age of 9 or 10, and 
lasted until the age of 56 to 60, and who had many children, 
among whom were daughters showing similar conditions. On 
the other hand, we may see difficulties of menstruation in the 
mother also inherited by the daughter. 

If the bad qualities of the ductless glands are inherited, 
it is only logical to expect the same for the good qualities also. 
It stands on this basis that we may frequently find longevity in 
the same family. Longevity, as illustrated by the many facts 
adduced in this book from the field of clinical and experi- 
mental observations, is closely allied with a thorough perform- 
ance of the functions of the ductless glands, especially of the 
thyroid gland; if these are in good condition, and especially if 
proper hygiene is also observed at the same time, longevity will 
follow. The good condition of the ductless glands is largely 
dependent upon a life based on hygienic principles, although 
when these glands are of the best quality they may stand a good 
deal and not degenerate so soon, even after excessive activity 
following injudicious or fast living. 

But if a long life be dependent on a good state of the duct- 



60 Old Age Deferred. 



less glands and if the qualities of these are inherited which 
cannot be doubted after the foregoing observations on heredity, 
it must necessarily follow that longevity is inherited too, and 
this is a fact which can be proved by a large number of observa- 
tions. 

If we study the history of persons who have lived over 100 
years, we shall find in nearly every case that their forefathers, 
or their descendants, or other relatives of the same blood have, 
as a rule, also lived to a great age. This will be illustrated by a 
few examples which we will now give. 

In the year 1724 there died in Hungary in a village called 
Kopros, about ten miles from Temesvar, a man, Petraz Czarten, 
who was 185 years of age. When he died, his son was 95. 

We have already referred to the case of a man named 
Thomas Parr in our chapter on the influence of the sexual glands 
upon vitality and long life. This man died in 1635 in his I53d 
year, and after death his body was dissected by the great physician 
Harvey. That longevity had existed in his family was shown 
by the fact that one of his female descendents died in Cork, in 
Ireland, at the age of 103. 

In the year 1797, in a village near Bergen, there died a 
man, Joseph Surrington, in his i6oth year. That he left a 
young widow, after having been married several times, is not 
so extraordinary if we consider the facts in the chapter in this 
book on the influence of the sexual glands upon vitality and 
long life. When this man died his eldest son was 103 and his 
youngest only 9! 

In a Finnish village near St. Petersburg there lived an old 
peasant woman, Maria Willamow. She was born in 1692, and 
died on September 10, 1807, after having lived 115 years, 9 
months, and 4 days; her brother had already died in 1768 at the 
age of 1 08. All her relatives and descendants were remarkable 
for their longevity. 

Jean Thuret was a soldier, and in spite of having been 
wounded in several battles, he lived beyond the age of 104. 



Heredity and Longevity. 61 

His mother died when 118 and his uncle at 130. The high old 
age of many of these patriarchs is proved by legal evidence. 
Thus, H. Jenkins, from Yorkshire, has appeared before a court 
of justice as witness in a matter that happened 140 years ago. 
He was accompanied by two sons, of whom one had reached 
100 and the other 102 years. Again, conclusive proof of the 
inheritance of long life. 7 

To the history of these patriarchs I can add a few personal 
observations. My mother's father lived to the age of 104. He 
never smoked and could read without spectacles all his life. He 
had eleven children, of whom one (an aunt of mine) is 95, and I 
have every reason for believing that she will continue to live yet 
many years in her present condition. Another daughter is at 
present 85 ; a son is 83, and another 78. 

We are acquainted with the history of the family of a phy- 
sician in Amsterdam, in which the great grandfather was 96. He 
had six sons who, between them, totaled 600 years, one of them 
living to the age of 102, some of the others to 80 and 90; and 
there is a daughter 79 years of age. 

From the foregoing it seems that persons descended from 
long-lived families have themselves a good chance of living to 
a great age ; but to do this it is essential that they should observe 
the rules of hygiene to prevent the deterioration of their duct- 
less glands. 

That the observance of good hygiene is of the greatest 
importance to attain longevity can be best adduced by the fact 
that persons descended from short-lived parents may also attain 
a green old age in robust health, as I will show by a few exam- 
ples which have come under my personal observation. 

Sir Herman Weber, the author of a valuable work on the 
prolongation of life, is descended from parents who both died 
at an early age. This savant has himself followed the excellent 
advice he gives in his books on long life, with what result can 



7 Quoted after Professor Pel. 



62 Old Age Deferred. 



be best judged by his healthy and vigorous looks. His appear- 
ance is that of a man many years his junior, yet Sir Herman 
was 82 a few years ago when we were together climbing a very 
steep and high hill in Carlsbad. When we arrived at the sum- 
mit nothing could restrain Sir Herman, but he insisted on also 
mounting a lofty tower to see the surrounding mountains, with- 
out taking any rest between his exertions, and this in spite of 
the warmth of the weather. 

On the day that we began to pen these lines we were con- 
gratulating one of the multifarious professors of the medical 
faculty of Berlin on his 73d birthday. He is in perfect and 
robust health, and is at present engaged on the third edition of 
his work, which is well known in medical circles all over the 
world. He told us his father was 33 and his mother 48 when 
they died, and several of his brothers died before reaching old 
age. However, his grandfather lived to be 90. This savant 
has always led a sober and regular life. 

Sometimes chronic diseases, -like syphilis, etc., do not prevent 
people who come from a long-lived family from attaining to a 
very old age. Thus a patient of mine, a French gentleman of 
72 years, who still shows symptoms of the tertiary form of 
syphilis acquired fifty-two years ago, is still looking in splendid 
health, like a man of 60, and was complaining to me about his too 
strong sexual feelings. Likewise, the father of a patient of mine 
has reached his 96th year in spite of his syphilis, which he acquired 
an age ago. 

If we now consider the environments where the longest- 
lived persons are found, we shall find that those who always live 
in the open air, and also moderately, rising early in the morning 
and leading day by day the same regular life, have attained the 
longest lives. A great number of long-lived patriarchs can be 
found among the peasants, or at least among persons living in 
the country and out in the fresh air all day. Undoubtedly the 
greatest number of long-lived people are to be found in the 
British Islands, especially in Scotland. The inhabitants of 



Heredity and Longevity. 63 

Great Britain are well known to appreciate fresh air, and on the 
Continent we often see them, especially Scotchmen, going about 
without any overcoat even on a cold winter's day. 

We shall see in various chapters of this book how essen- 
tially important is a sound hygiene to ensure long life, and we 
shall demonstrate in separate chapters the great importance of 
fresh air and of exercise in the open air. 

If we would inquire where are to be found the greatest 
number of persons over 100 years of age, the palm must be 
given to Bulgaria, if what is claimed be true, viz., that there are 
3800 persons over that age, and all these folk partake daily of 
"jogurth," a sour milk containing three different microbes, the 
most efficacious among them being the maeja bacillus. In Ger- 
many, with its 61,000,000 of inhabitants, there are but 71 per- 
sons over 100 years old, while Bulgaria, with only 7,000,000, 
claims to have 3800, and that it is due to the jogurth eaten 
every day. We will deal more fully with jogurth in the chapter 
on the elimination of toxic products from the intestines. 



CHAPTER VII. 

ON MEANS WHICH CAN HELP us TO DETERMINE THE 
PROBABLE DURATION OF LIFE. 

WE have seen in the first chapter of this book that we may 
find the symptoms of old age, in quite early years, in persons 
whose ductless glands (the thyroid, ovaries, testicles, liver, kid- 
neys, pancreas, adrenals, pituitary body) are degenerated by 
disease; nervous affections; alterations of the mind: grief, sor- 
row, etc. ; chronic infections ; numerous pregnancies, etc., or by 
faulty hygienics : excesses in food, alcohol, sexual pleasures, etc. 
We have also seen in the third chapter that the immunity of an 
individual against infections be it by bacterial invasion or by 
poisonous food or drugs, etc. is dependent upon the correct 
functionating condition of these glands. We have seen that 
those in whom these glands are degenerated fall easy victims to 
all manner of infections, and the previous chapter on heredity 
shows that the same happens to children, the offspring of 
parents suffering from alcoholism, tuberculosis, or malaria, as 
the children of these parents are born with a congenital degen- 
eration of the thyroid, and thus remain backward in growth, 
both mentally and physically, and, especially, fall easy victims 
to tuberculosis. Their life is generally short. While such 
a sad cloud hangs over the head of persons whose glands are 
damaged, either congenitally or by disease, much more favor- 
able is the lot of those who have inherited healthy glands and 
by careful living have preserved them intact, or who, though 
born with ductless glands not entirely normal, and possibly bor- 
dering on a condition of congenital myxcedema, have, by suit- 
able treatment and hygiene, succeeded in improving the con- 
dition of their glands. 
(64) 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 05 

We have seen that the thyroid influences powerfully the 
production of those safeguards of our body against infections 
the anti-bodies being, as shown by Prof. Sajous (1903-1907), 
beyond a doubt products of ductless glands and the better the 
condition of the glands, the more protective substances will be 
produced in order to fight down the murderous microbes, or 
organic poisons, which continually threaten us with destruction. 
In this fight, a person with healthy ductless glands will always 
attain a longer life than one with ductless glands of inferior 
quality. The better the condition of the thyroid the greater will 
be the activity of those organs that are under its direct command 
(e.g., the kidneys, liver, skin, and intestines), and by the increased 
activity of the main emunctories of the body poisonous products 
will be eliminated by means of a greater flow of urine, an abun- 
dant perspiration, and thorough purging. Also the myriads of 
toxic products that are brought from the intestine to the liver will 
be promptly destroyed, or transformed into less dangerous com- 
binations. 

Thus there can be no doubt that a person with healthy 
ductless glands, especially the thyroid and testicles or ovaries, 
will live long provided, of course, no other vital organ be 
irreparably diseased. 

The question now arises, by what means can we ascertain 
whether the ductless glands are in good condition or not? We 
will now try to answer this important question. 

We can diagnose a healthy condition of the ductless glands 
either directly, by the examination of those glands which are 
available for a digital examination, as the thyroid, sexual glands 
or liver, or indirectly, by the examination of the state of those 
functions which are governed by these glands; e.g., the heart's 
action, the pulse, regulation of temperature, defaecation, diu- 
resis, digestion, activity of the skin and its glands, condition 
of the nervous system, etc. 

Before entering upon the examination of these glands we 
must first ascertain whether our patient comes of a long-lived 



Old Age Deferred. 



stock, or, if not, whether diseases that are particularly harmful 
to the ductless gland, and are commonly hereditary, like tuber- 
culosis and syphilis, have occurred in the family. According to 
our observation boys more frequently look like their mothers, 
and girls like their fathers, and also inherit their qualities. After 
having ascertained the family history, we must inquire whether 
the patient has had any diseases that are specially harmful to 
the ductless glands: e.g., infectious diseases scarlet fever, 
diphtheria, typhoid, etc. and also ascertain his usual diet and 
habits, keeping in mind the bad effects of abundant meat food 
upon the thyroid, as well as of certain stimulants like alcohol 
and tobacco. As these, if of bad quality and taken in quantity 
for a long time, have the most damaging influence on the duct- 
less glands, our prognosis of a long life will be duly influenced, 
and in particular unfavorably for those who come of a short-lived 
stock, or who have been weakened by previous infectious dis- 
eases. If some persons, otherwise healthy and of good family 
history, can with impunity indulge till old age in wine and 
tobacco, yet this is not a general rule. Individuals are known who 
drank and smoked till over one hundred years of age, but such 
cases are rare, and we may quote the Latin proverb : "Quod licet 
Jovi, non licet bovi." Everybody will admit that the expectation 
of life in those who are moderate in the use of wine and tobacco 
and also, let us insist, of tea and coffee, is much greater than 
in the immoderate. We will further deal with this question in 
our chapters on alcohol and tobacco. 

After having given an exhaustive history of the persons 
whose probable lifetime we are trying to determine, we next 
proceed to the examination of those ductless glands which are 
available for direct examination, and first of all, the thyroid. 

The examination of the thyroid gland by palpation is a 
very difficult undertaking and necessitates a thorough knowl- 
edge of the anatomy and physiology of the gland. We must 
bear in mind the fact that, in men, we generally find only two 
lobes, the lateral ones, which lie on either side of the trachea, 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 67 

as the median lobe is generally undeveloped in the male. The 
right lobe is usually larger than the left. In women the median 
lobe is often well developed and can be distinctly seen in enlarge- 
ment of the gland, for instance, during puberty, menstruation, 
pregnancy, etc., and especially when a goiter exists which, for 
reasons we have mentioned previously, is more common in the 
female. 

When the thyroid shows a considerable swelling, as in 
goiter, it can be seen and felt easily, but not always, for cases 
certainly exist where in life no thyroid could be felt, and yet 
at the autopsy a large goiter has been found. Thus, in a case 
of acromegaly a thyroid of about 130 grammes was found by 
Holsti, 1 though during life nothing could be discovered by pal- 
pation. When a large thyroid can be seen and felt, we are 
justified in diagnosing a swelling of the gland; but in cases 
where we neither see nor feel it, we are not always justified 
in stating that it is not enlarged. 

When palpating the thyroid we must note whether it is 
soft or hard. If soft, the tissue present is probably parenchy- 
matous in nature and so, probably, entirely secreting tissue, while 
a goiter that feels hard may denote excess of connective tissue, 
and thus, apparently, an inactive gland. The presence of cystic 
formations raises the possibility of a large quantity of colloid 
substance, either healthy or degenerate. 

Thus, inspection and palpation of the thyroid can give us, 
to a certain extent, valuable information; we must, however, 
not rely entirely upon the results of this external examination 
but, especially in cases where no thyroid can be felt, we must 
add to the external examination an inquiry into the condition 
of those functions which are governed by the thyroid we 
must, in fact, examine the condition of those organs whose 
function is dependent upon the internal secretion of the thyroid. 

Thus, we must examine the skin and note whether it is dry 
or moist, and whether the sweat glands are acting normally. 

1 Holsti: Zeitschrift ftir klin. Medicin, p. 272, 1892, 



68 Old Age Deferred. 



A dry skin, with diminished perspiration, denotes an inactive 
thyroid, especially when excess of subcutaneous fat is present. 
Excess of fat, of the consistence of bacon, is characteristic of 
a greater degeneration of the thyroid i.e., myxcedema, and 
indicates a great loss of function of the thyroid gland. Pallor of 
the face, with round red patches on the cheeks, and dilated capil- 
laries, are also characteristic signs of such a condition in its early 
stages, and so are a wrinkled forehead, especially with two per- 
pendicular folds, and puffy eyelids. Wrinkling of the skin of the 
hands, taken in conjunction with other signs, is also a point of 
diagnostic value. 

The condition of the musculature can also give us some 
valuable information. The thyroid and other ductless glands, 
as the sexual glands, govern the tonicity of all the muscles. 
In children, especially about the age of puberty, the muscles 
are firm and elastic, but in later years, or even in young women, 
consequent upon various conditions which are harmful to the 
ductless glands, such as sexual excesses or numerous pregnan- 
cies, the muscles lose their tonicity and become lax and flabby. 
This also occurs in myxcedema arising from other causes. The 
viscera, deprived of their muscular support, become displaced, 
and in this way arise the various forms of visceroptosis. 

Premature grayness is an indication of probable changes in 
the thyroid. This is confirmed by the fact that, as a rule, such 
persons are also very nervous. Premature grayness constitutes 
a typical symptom of myxcedema and hypothyroidia, and as 
such has been described already by Hertoghe. 2 Falling out of 
the hair is also a symptom of importance, if it appears in early 
years, especially if it is accompanied by falling out of the eye- 
brows and the hair on the back of the head. On the other hand, 
Sajous found that in appropriate cases, thyroid extract promotes 
the growth of hair, while adrenal extract encourages, besides, the 
growth of the eye-brows. 

In examining the circulatory system we must bear in mind 



2Nouvelle: Iconographie de la SalpgtriSre, Juillet-Aout, 1899. 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 69 

the powerful influence of the ductless glands upon the circula- 
tion, especially that of the adrenals, thyroid, and pituitary body. 
As shown by Oliver and Schafer, the thyroid secretion dimin- 
ishes blood-pressure, whereas the adrenal secretion increases it. 
Thus, these two glands are antagonistic and it can easily be 
understood that if there is not sufficient thyroid secretion to 
counterbalance that of the adrenals, the blood-pressure will in- 
crease. If this lasts for some length of time, very serious effects 
will follow. Atheroma and arteriosclerosis may ensue, both of 
which conditions tend to shorten life. The adrenals can be 
stimulated to such over-secretion by mental emotions, which act 
upon the sympathetic (splanchnic) nerves. Besides mental 
emotion they can also be stimulated by various poisons, such as 
alcohol, tobacco, or infectious diseases (see Chapter III). We 
must keep these facts in mind when we examine the circulatory 
system, and we must ascertain the condition of the arteries, 
whether soft or hard, and of the blood-pressure. Tortuosity of 
the temporal artery in young persons is also a sign of some value. 
The condition of the coronary arteries is of the utmost impor- 
tance. We must also not forget the fact, that even in severe 
cases of arteriosclerosis the pulse may be found soft. Every- 
thing will depend upon the examination of the heart, and special 
attention must be paid to the second sound at the aortic orifice, 
and to any accentuation of that sound. 

In the examination of the digestive organs we must pay 
special attention to the state of the appetite. Very often with 
a degenerated thyroid this may be wanting. The appetite, as 
shown by Pawlow, is under the influence of the mind as we 
will see. With a sad melancholic disposition, as is often 
found in persons with a degenerated thyroid, there is insuffi- 
cient or no secretion of gastric juice. Besides, in myxoedema- 
tous conditions all glandular secretions are more or less checked. 
Thus food passes into a stomach with insufficient gastric juice, 
remains there in stagnation and causes fermentation. The stom- 
ach makes vain efforts to drive the food i-nto the intestine. 



70 Old Age Deferred. 



Slowly an atonic condition of the gastric walls arises, and later 
dilatation of this organ. The fermenting foodstuffs in the 
stomach set up a chronic intoxication of the organism. 

Concerning the condition of the intestines we should con- 
sider the chances of long life greater in those persons whose 
bowels act regularly and who are never constipated. Such per- 
sons are able to eliminate toxic products much better than those 
who are suffering from chronic constipation. The function of 
the intestines is powerfully influenced by the thyroid gland, 
chronic constipation being a typical symptom of all conditions 
in which this gland is degenerated, whereas in the opposite 
conditions, such as Graves's disease (exophthalmic goiter), 
diarrhoea is common. By giving thyroid gland we can treat 
successfully those obstinate cases of constipation, which are 
based etiologically on such grounds. Besides the thyroid gland, 
the ovaries also influence, to a large extent, the intestines, con- 
stipation occurring, as a rule, in diseased conditions of the 
female sexual organs. 

Flatulency and distention of the bowels are very frequently 
met with in women with diseased thyroids or ovaries, and are 
due to an irritated condition of the nerves of the intestines. 

When examining the nervous system we must inquire for 
headaches, especially in the occipital region, migraines, and the 
previous occurrence of neuralgia, these being very frequent 
symptoms in persons with athyroidia or hypothyroidia. Most 
characteristic are alterations in the mental condition. Thus, 
memory for recent events may be gone. There may be apathy, 
with hesitation before every movement, such persons disliking 
to move about. They may sit indefinitely in the same position. 
As already mentioned in the chapter on the influences of the 
ductless glands upon the nervous system such people are fre- 
quently somnolent. Therefore we must inquire about the hours 
of sleep. Besides sleeping long, such persons are apt to awake 
in the night after dreams of a terrifying nature. Our diagnosis 
of a condition of athyroidia or hypothyroidia has often been 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 71 

helped, by inquiring whether such persons have seen little ani- 
mals (rats or mice) creeping through the room while sitting 
quiet, or before going to sleep. Such a symptom has been 
described by Murray, 3 in his book on myxoedema, in the early 
stages of this disease; the mind being then so much altered 
that even manias of persecution and suicide may arise. 

Neurasthenia is a disease which, as we have tried to show, 
is very often based upon changes- in the ductless glands, espe- 
cially the thyroid, sexual glands, and pituitary body. The same 
holds good for hysteria. Therefore the presence of such con- 
ditions will influence us in our judgment as to the future of 
such persons. In cases of great nervousness, especially when 
associated with mental depression, there is less resistance to 
infection, for causes already mentioned (see Chapters III and 
L). Great mental excitability may predispose to certain dis- 
eases which shorten life, like diabetes, and in people in whom, 
owing to an unstable nervous system, there is a frequent increase 
in the blood-pressure, the possibility of apoplexy is to be feared, 
if such persons are of a plethoric build. The wear and tear of 
life is certainly far more felt by persons whose minds are very 
easily impressed and excited by events of little importance ; and, 
considering the great influence of mind upon body, persons, who 
like a weak tree are easily beaten down by the smallest storm, 
will have less chance of long life than persons who have a 
better control over themselves and stronger will power (see 
"Hygienics of the Mind," Chapter L). 

Having thus briefly described the principal functions gov- 
erned by the thyroid gland : shown how, by observing changes in 
these functions, we can judge as to the healthy condition of this 
gland, let us now see if any means exists by which we can ascer- 
tain the functionating condition of the other ductless glands. 

After the thyroid the sexual glands claim our attention, 
as these glands are of the utmost importance on account of their 
enormous influence upon the processes of metabolism and the 
3 Murray: "Pisease of the Thyroid Gland," p. 72, London, 1901. 



72 Old Age Deferred. 



maintenance of life (see Chapter V). We must first call to 
mind that their work is essentially under the influence of the 
thyroid, changes in which invariably produce changes in the 
sexual glands. Thus, in degenerated conditions of the thy- 
roid, we find impotency in men and sterility in women. In such 
conditions atrophy of the testicles, or of the ovaries, can often 
be found. These clinical observations can be confirmed by 
experiments. Thus Lanz 4 found sterility common in goats 
whose thyroids had been extirpated. In cretins an atrophic 
condition of the testicles, or of the ovaries, is present as a rule, 
and such patients very frequently show lack of sexual desires. 

Direct examination of the sexual glands can be more easily 
carried out in men than in women. 

The presence of varicose veins is of great importance, as 
varicoceles are generally accompanied by great disturbances of 
the nervous system, sometimes even going as far as insanity. 
Suicide is not unfrequently committed in such a condition. 

After the testicles the prostatic gland must be examined. 
As direct examination of this gland is only possible by a painful 
examination through the rectum, we shall have to inquire into 
the condition of the functions of this gland. We must find out 
whether there is a flow of prostatic liquid and semen (frequency 
of pollution). It must be remembered, however, that the flow 
of a little semen in constipation and sexual abstinence has no 
importance. 

We must specially inquire about previous attacks of gonor- 
rhoea. Examining the urine in two fractions, we must ascertain 
whether the first fraction is as clear as the second. The pres- 
ence of a few filaments tells a tale of previous gonorrhoea, but 
is of no consequence for the prognosis. It may be, however, 
that they possibly indicate the presence of gonococci in the deeper 
lying glands of the urethra which, after sexual excesses, can 
again come to the surface even after years. 

Inquiring for gonorrhoea in the past, we must find out 
4 Lanz: lioc. tit, 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 73 

whether the patient was treated by local applications with instru- 
ments to the posterior part of the urethra, this being the only 
radical treatment of chronic gonorrhoea. As a rule, every 
chronic gonorrhoea invades the posterior part of the urethra 
and, usually, inflammation of the posterior part of the urethra 
involves also the prostatic gland. 

The presence of strictures and hypertrophy of the prostate, 
unless they occur in connection with a gonorrhoea, are indicative of 
a faulty activity of those glands which influence the formation 
of fatty or connective tissue in the body, as will be shown. It 
may indicate changes in the thyroid, after extirpation or degen- 
eration of which the connective tissue in the body is increased, to 
which fact is also largely due the occurrence of prostatic 
hypertrophy. 

We must inquire as to the passage of urine. An inter- 
rupted stream with pain on micturition may indicate, in elderly 
persons, a hypertrophy of the prostate, especially if these pains 
are more frequent in cold weather. The bladder must be exam- 
ined for the presence of stone. The presence of stone, as also 
of long-standing gleet and strictures that are not cured, lessen 
the chances of a long life, the dangers of cystitis, and ascend- 
ing pyelonephritis, and nephritis, hanging, as the sword of 
Damocles, over the heads of their unfortunate possessors. 

Gonorrhoea, if it occurs frequently and attacks the pros- 
tate, is a great danger both to the mental stability and sexual 
powers. The presence of great sexual desires, with more or less 
impotence, must also be taken into consideration when we are 
collecting evidence to find out the chances of long life in an 
individual. 

Regarding the examination of the female sexual organs 
and of their functions, it cannot be the object of these lines 
to describe how to conduct a thorough gynaecologic exami- 
nation. We must limit ourselves to those points by which 
we can ascertain the condition of those functions which are 
under the control of the ovaries, with special reference to their 



74 Old Age Deferred. 



internal secretion. Thus, we need merely observe whether the 
external sexual characteristics (e.g., breasts, hips, etc.) are well 
developed, since these are under the direct influence of the 
internal secretion of the ovaries. 

A chlorotic condition allows us to draw the inference that 
a faulty condition of the ovaries exists (ovarian origin of chlo- 
rosis v. Noorden), and also of the thyroid, as this gland often 
shows change in chlorosis. The extirpation of these glands is 
followed by a diminution in the number of red blood-corpuscles 
and in the percentage of haemoglobin. Both of these elements of 
the blood can be increased by the use of thyroid or ovarian ex- 
tracts, as has been noted by several authorities. 

The condition of menstruation can give us valuable infor- 
mation. The late appearance of the first menstrual period, 
irregularities of menstruation, its appearance at irregular inter- 
vals, and frequent disappearance for months, will give us an 
unfavorable idea of the ovarian activity, especially when each 
menstrual period is accompanied by pain. So will sterility, as 
this condition is common, not only in association with ovarian 
inactivity (if not due to malpositions of the uterus or impo- 
tency of the husband), but also with thyroid deficiency. On 
the other hand, too frequent pregnancies or miscarriages will 
also unfavorably influence our judgment, as these agencies have, 
as a rule, a deteriorating effect upon these important glands, 
causing their exhaustion and, at the same time, that of the 
thyroid. In women with thyroid insufficiency and general loss 
of muscular tone, prolapse of the uterus may be frequent, and also 
metrorrhagia. As Hertoghe found, we can stop uterine haem- 
orrhages in women with thyroid insufficiency by the adminis- 
tration of thyroid extracts. The history of previous gonor- 
rhoeal infection must be specially investigated, as this disease, 
if not treated, which is unhappily so often the case, will always 
involve the ovaries, causing their destruction and often their 
obliteration. Gonorrhoea in women is far oftener overlooked 
than in men, as it so often passes for a simple discharge, 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 75 

until by microscopical examination gonococci are found, and 
the ovaries already injured. It is a sad fact that a large majority 
of the cases of pelvic disease in married women are due to infec- 
tion by the husband, for an enormous number of men enter upon 
marriage with gonorrhoea that is imperfectly cured, or not cured 
at all. Let us hope that there will come a time when a law will 
be passed obliging every man to be examined thoroughly before 
entering upon marriage, especially for gonorrhoea and syphilis. 
Such legal precautions would soon check the transmission 
of these diseases to the wife and of syphilis to the innocent 
descendants. It may be that thus, to a large extent, the propa- 
gation of some of the greatest scourges of humanity can be 
checked, viz. : of tuberculosis, alcoholism, and crime 5 which, as 
shown previously, flourish on the soil prepared for them by 
hereditary syphilis. 

A total lack of sexual desire in women is not normal, and 
may indicate changes in the ovaries. On the other hand, there 
is an increase of sexual desire at the period of augmented 
ovarian activity, as in the days preceding menstruation. We 
have had the opportunity of hearing praise of ovarian treat- 
ment from husbands of women with tendencies to sexual fri- 
gidity. 

Very valuable information about the activity of the ovaries 
can be gained from the examination of the breasts. It must 
be borne in mind that the ovaries and the breasts stand in very 
close relation. Changes in the ovaries are always followed by 
changes in the breasts, and it is a very interesting fact that 
cases of cancer of the breast have been cured by extirpation of 
the ovaries. 

Comparing the breasts of an innocent young girl between 
sixteen and twenty years with those of women of the same age 
leading an immoral life, or of women after many pregnancies 
or in advanced age, we notice at once the great difference 

5 Arnold Lorand: "Pathogeny of Crime," Address to the Philadelphia 
Med. Jurisprudence Society. Monthly Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, 1907. 



76 Old Age Deferred. 



between the large flabby breasts and the firm tissue of a young 
girl leading a moral life. According to our observations we 
have described 6 cases of fatty enlargement of the breasts, fol- 
lowing all those agencies which are hurtful to the ovaries, as 
masturbation, sexual excesses, many pregnancies, etc. On the 
other hand, in degenerated conditions of the ovaries and thy- 
roid, especially if these conditions are congenital, we may find 
the breasts quite undeveloped. 

After the thyroid and ovaries we will direct our attention 
to the pituitary body. Direct examination of this ductless 
gland being out of question, owing to its position on the base 
of the skull, in the sella turcica, we have to judge of its vitality 
by indirect methods. We know that by the alterations of 
this gland a condition is produced, called acromegaly, charac- 
terized by enlargement of the toes, fingers and nose, prominence 
of the lower jaw, sinking in of the temple and of the fossa canina 
in the cheek-bones, prominence of the occipital bone, etc. As 
with all diseases of the ductless glands, besides the extreme form 
just described, which constitutes the highest degree of such a 
degeneration, there are also marked cases where all of the above 
deformities are only slightly pronounced. We must inquire 
whether the features of such persons have changed, or the nose, 
hands, and feet become larger. This is best determined by 
comparison of old and recent photographs. 

A history of headache, especially nocturnal, of mental 
change, e.g., great susceptibility or symptoms of neurasthenia, 
taken together with the external appearances, may aid our diag- 
nosis. The simultaneous discovery of an ocular lesion (hemi- 
anopsia) will confirm our suspicions beyond doubt. 

The pancreas, also, can only be examined by indirect evi- 
dences of its activity. A history of frequent or occasional epigas- 
tric colic, of large quantities of unformed shapeless stools of a 
yellow or yellow-gray color, containing undigested fat, together 



6 International Congress of Medicine, Lisbon, 1906, reported in Presse 
mSdicale, 1907. 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 77 

with loss of weight, will make us think of the possibility of disease 
of the pancreas. The most exact proof of such change can only 
be obtained by microscopical examination of the faeces. 

Examination of the urine for sugar can also tell us whether 
there is disease of the pancreas, especially of those parts of the 
pancreas which constitute a ductless gland, independently of the 
rest of the viscus, namely, the islands of Langerhans. 7 

As Mering and Minkowski 8 first showed, every dog whose 
pancreas is extirpated invariably becomes diabetic, and this dia- 
betes is similar to that of man. In many cases of diabetes 
changes in the pancreas have been found at autopsy; and 
although a good number of cases without any apparent change 
in the pancreas have been recorded, the cause of these has been 
revealed by an American author, Dr. Opie, 9 then of the Johns 
Hopkins University in Baltimore. This author has found in 
a few cases of diabetes alterations in the islands of Langerhans 
in the pancreas. This fact has been confirmed by a good many 
authors, of whom I may mention Sobolew, 10 Weichselbaum 11 
and Stengel, Sauerbeck, and others. As is invariably the case, 
the statements of these authorities have been attacked by others, 
as Hanseman, who have found no such changes in the islets in 
diabetes. We must, however, state here, that an apparently 
perfect anatomical condition of glandular structure after death 
need be no proof of a perfect secretory activity during life. 
Every epithelial formation, and the islands of Langerhans are of 
this nature, must furnish a secretion, and this flows in every 
gland only under a nervous stimulation. As Pawlow has shown, 
the pancreas secretes under nervous impulse. Therefore the 
findings of pathological anatomy cannot show us whether these 
glands have been secreting properly during life or not, especially 
in a nervous disease such as diabetes. 



7 Langerhans: ThSse, Berlin, 1869; G. Lange. 

8 Mering und Minkowski: Archiv fiir exper. Path, und Pharm., xxvi, 1889. 

9 Opie: Journal of Experiment. Medicine, p. 827, 1901. 
lOVirchow's Archiv, clxviii, p. 1. 

11 Wiener klin. Wochenachrift, 1901-1902. 



78 Old Age Deferred. 



According to the experiments of Diamare and Kuliabko, 
the islands of Langerhans furnish a secretion which aids in the 
inversion of grape sugar. We have shown at meetings of the 
Biological Department of the Hamburg Medical Society (Ger- 
many), and of the London Pathological Society, specimens of the 
pancreas of diabetic persons where there were changes only in 
the islands of Langerhans and none in other parts of the pancreas 
while, in one case, nearly the whole of the pancreas was des- 
troyed by cirrhosis, but without any diabetes, for in this case the 
islands of Langerhans were not changed at all. It is interesting 
to note that these changes in the islands of Langerhans were also 
present in mild cases of diabetes. 

Thus, the finding of sugar in the urine usually indicates the 
probability of changes in the pancreas. Even small quantities 
of sugar, such as appear only after starchy meals (alimentary 
glycosuria ex amylo) may be brought into connection with 
changes in the pancreas; for Wille 12 found in Hamburg from a 
large series of autopsies, that in a considerable number of cases 
with alimentary glycosuria, there were also changes in the pan- 
creas. 

We must not forget the very important fact, that even when 
we find no sugar we cannot at once exclude diabetes. There are 
many cases of mild diabetes which do not show any sugar on an 
ordinary diet. To recognize these cases we must give them a 
test meal of either about three ounces of grape sugar two hours 
after a light breakfast of coffee and a roll, or, as we have recom- 
mended in our book on the rational treatment of diabetes, 13 we 
must give a test meal of much starchy food, such as rice and cakes, 
and examine the urine two hours later. If then no sugar is 
found, or not exceeding 0.2 per cent., diabetes may be excluded. 
Persons with O.I per cent, to 0.3 per cent, of sugar after such a 
starchy test meal may be considered as on the border line of 
diabetes. Such persons show a diminished tolerance of carbo- 

12 Quoted after Professor Oser : Deutsche klinik., vol. v, p. 158. 

13 Second edition, Berlin, 1909. 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 7i) 

hydrates, and they have lost the power to consume all the sugar 
they introduce into their body. Therefore, especially if they 
come of diabetic parents, they should avoid eating much starchy 
food so as not to develop further this dangerous tendency. 

Diabetes, in the majority of cases, considerably shortens 
the patient's life. Mild cases of diabetes may however live 
for fifteen or twenty years, or often even longer. In pre- 
dicting the chances of longevity in diabetic subjects everything 
depends on the question whether diacetic acid has been found in 
the urine or not. This can be easily ascertained by putting a 
few drops of a solution of perchloride of iron into a test tube 
with the diabetic urine. If diacetic acid is present, the liquid 
will become Burgundy red in color, and the deeper this red color, 
the greater is the percentage of diacetic acid present. In such 
cases the chances are very bad, such patients living on an average 
for only one to two years. Exceptions to this rule, however, are 
not infrequent, and we know of a case of acromegaly with 
severe diabetes, who has passed large quantities of diacetic acid 
for the last fourteen years. 

Cases of severe diabetes, with diacetic acid, can often be 
easily recognized by their appearance. They are thin, the cheeks 
are often flushed, and they show nearly all the signs of a myxce- 
dematous condition, as already described, whereas cases of mild 
diabetes present often symptoms of hyperactivity of the thyroid 
gland, as in exophthalmic goiter. As we have shown, diabetes 
is often due to an overactivity of the thyroid gland, 14 as well as 
to degeneration of the pancreas, these glands being antagonistic 
to one another. This is confirmed and amplified by Sajous, who 
ascribes one form of diabetes to overactivity of the adrenal sys- 
tem, which includes the thyroid gland. Overactivity of the latter 
organ may also be followed by its exhaustion, with symptoms of 
myxoedema, as is the rule in severe diabetes. 

Patients with mild diabetes often have a fresh look and a 



14 "Die Entstehung der Zuckerkrankheit," Berlin, 1903, and its French 
translation, Maloine, Paris, 1904. 



80 Old Age Deferred. 



rosy face, and very frequently look much younger than they 
are. We believe that the healthy working condition of their 
thyroids has something to do with this fact. 

The pancreas is a very important organ for the main- 
tenance of life as it produces certain bodies (enzymes) which 
are of enormous importanc in the assimilation of food. One 
of these bodies (they are three in number), helps the assimila- 
tion of albuminous products and is called trypsin. It also plays 
an important role in the treatment of cancerous growths. Be- 
sides this the pancreas produces an enzyme that helps the assimi- 
lation of the carbohydrates (amylopsin) and another that is 
indispensable for the perfect assimilation of fat (steapsin). 

As we have shown by experiments made in the laboratory 
of Professor Minkowski (then in Cologne), the pancreas stands 
in definite relation to the thyroid. These two glands seem to 
be antagonistic to one another, for on extirpation of the pancreas 
of three dogs, thus rendering them diabetic, in every case 
the thyroid showed a condition of hyperactivity, whereas in one 
case, after previous extirpation of the thyroid, the pancreas 
showed an enormous number of islands of Langerhans (thirty- 
six to forty in one field). 15 

It was also of great interest, that each diabetic dog ceased 
to eliminate sugar two days after extirpation of the thyroid. 

As with the thyroid, the pancreas has also very impor- 
tant relations with the liver. Dr. Steinhaus found, in a research 
conducted in the laboratory of Professor Minkowski, that in a 
large number of cases of hepatic cirrhosis there were also similar 
changes in the pancreas. Similar observations have also been 
made by Opie, Amato, KlifTel and Lefas, 16 and others. This 
may be the reason that in diseases of the liver we have had 
good results from the administration of pancreatic extract. In 
every case we have found a better assimilation of food, and espe- 
cially a better appetite. This stomachic effect of pancreatic ex- 
is Comptes-Rendus de la SociSte" de biologie, Paris, 25 Mars, 1904. 
16 Revue de mSdecine, 23, 1903. 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 81 

tracts we have found in nearly every case and even when the 
patients were not suffering from pancreatic or hepatic disease. 
(See also Chapter LIV.) 

Still more than the pancreas is the liver indispensable for 
the maintenance of life. It destroys the deadly poisons which are 
conveyed to it by the portal vein for neutralization. Besides this 
it produces certain bodies which help to destroy poisons arising 
from the decomposition of albuminous food. (See also Chapter 
XIII.) 

The liver also produces certain bodies, as urea, which 
play a very important part in metabolism, and it also serves as 
a large depot for glycogen, the stored sugar of the body. The 
liver forms a large amount of glycogen, and stores it up for the 
wants of the body. By a ferment, also produced by the liver 
cells, the glycogen is transformed into sugar, and in this form 
is given off to the body. If the liver were extirpated the blood 
would contain no more sugar, as was found by Minkowski 
through experiments on animals. 

Besides sugar, the liver also produces, as just mentioned, 
another very important substance, and this is urea. This body is 
produced in the liver from ammonia, which, as the final product 
of decomposition of albuminous substances, is brought to the 
liver by the blood. From carbamic acid, also, the liver forms 
urea. Ammonia and carbamic acid are poisonous products 
which arise from the decomposition of albuminous material, and, 
by transforming them into urea, the liver saves our body from 
continuous intoxication. Thus we can see that in diseases of 
the liver the quantity of urea falls and the elimination of am- 
monia increases. A normal man eliminates about thirty to forty 
grammes of urea in a day. Much smaller quantities per diem 
would thus indicate diminished activity of the liver. 

Besides glycogen and urea, the liver also produces another 
substance, which is indispensable to the perfect process of diges- 
tion and assimilation. This is the bile. The bile transforms 
fat in the intestine into an emulsion, and thus makes it possible 

6 



82 Old Age Deferred. 



for the fat-splitting ferment of the pancreas to act upon it, and 
to split it up into glycerin and fatty acids, and thus make it 
serviceable for the uses of the organism. The bile augments 
the action of the pancreatic ferments; it stimulates the move- 
ments of the intestine, and is a powerful antiseptic to the con- 
tents of the intestine, as it hinders to a certain extent their putre- 
faction. Another important action is that it increases the water 
content of the faeces, and thus materially helps an easy evacua- 
tion of the bowels. 

After having thus briefly passed in review the important 
functions of a healthy active liver, let us now say a few words 
about its examination. The liver is one of the few ductless 
glands which are available for manual examination by percussion 
and palpation. We must ascertain if it extends considerably 
below the costal margin, and by palpation we must ascertain 
whether the enlarged liver is soft or hard and cirrhotic. In the 
former condition we can diagnose hyperactivity of the liver, 
probably due to its efforts to safeguard the body against a long- 
continued intoxication, as may be the case in those who over- 
eat, and also in long-continued digestive troubles, especially 
with dilatation of the stomach, chronic constipation, etc. Fol- 
lowing on this hyperactivity, as is the case with all organs, there 
may come an exhaustion, more especially after long-continued 
intoxications. Thus in chronic alcoholism a simple hypertrophy 
of the liver may go on to cirrhosis, and later the hypertrophy 
may be followed by an atrophy, with all its harmful conse- 
quences, as ascites, etc. 

On examining the liver we must not forget the sclerotics, 
and must note whether, on looking upward, there is any yellow 
discoloration. 

While palpating the liver we must specially note whether 
it is tender, and also if the gall-bladder is tender. This is a 
typical symptom of chronic inflammation of the gall-bladder, 
or cholecystitis, which is so frequently associated with gall-stones. 
We find such a tender gall-bladder very frequently in elderly 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 83 

women, in whom gall-stones are particularly common. In 
fact, they occur so frequently that Halck 17 in Copenhagen, found 
them in 29 per cent, of 4140 autopsies on persons above 50 years 
of age. However the mere presence of gall-stones does not 
constitute gall-stone disease, the essential point being an inflam- 
mation of the gall-bladder and bile-ducts. Such an inflammation 
of the gall-bladder is revealed by tenderness on pressure with the 
examining hand. It is a frequent symptom of all those conditions 
(as we have found and communicated to the French Congress of 
Medicine, 1905) in which the thyroid or sexual glands are dis- 
eased. For instance, after pregnancies, after infectious diseases 
in old age, etc., it is often accompanied and preceded by obesity, 
which is also a consequence of inactivity of the thyroid and sexual 
glands. Frerich, many years ago, observed enlargement of the 
liver and a tender gall-bladder in women at the climacteric, and 
many other authors have made similar observations. Hertoghe 
found such conditions common in women suffering from inactivity 
of the thyroid or hypothyroidia. 

It has been found by experiments, made by Blumenthal and 
Jacobi, that extirpation of the thyroid is followed by a dilation 
of the gall-bladder, and many authors have noted the presence 
of biliary constituents in the urine of animals whose thyroid has 
been extirpated. 

We can readily understand why women with changes in 
the thyroid and sexual glands are so often attacked by gall- 
stone disease. In these women there is, as a rule, atony of the 
intestines, with habitual constipation. This intestinal atony is 
also accompanied by an atony of the gall-ducts, and so the bile 
is more or less stagnant in these ducts. 

As shown by Morat and Doyon, 18 the gall-ducts contract 
rhythmically every ten to twenty seconds, and the bile is thus 
expressed. The periodical compression of the liver by the 
diaphragm at each inspiration also helps this expression of the 



17 Quoted from Hoppe-Seyler in Nothnagel's "Practice," p. 548, 1904. 
IS TraitS de Physiologic. 



84 Old Age Deferred. 



bile. Thus it flows under a certain pressure through the chole^ 
dochus, and it is easy to understand that the billions of microbes 
which infest the intestines, will have great difficulty in passing 
the narrow and tortuous passages of the bile-ducts through 
which bile is circulating at great pressure. And this is of the 
utmost importance, for if microbes are able to pass the common 
duct and thus enter the bile-ducts, they will set up inflammation, 
as was shown by several French authors : Gombault, Charcot, Gil- 
bert, etc. 

Inflammation of the bile-ducts plays a most important part 
in the origin of gall-stone disease, for, as Naunyn and his pupils 
have shown, inflammation of the bile-ducts leads to a precipita- 
tion of cholesterin, and so to the formation of gall-stones. 

In women gall-stone disease is more frequent than in men. 
This depends upon the greater frequency of diseases of the thy- 
roid and sexual glands in women. Changes in the sexual organs 
produce an irritation of the splanchnic with checking of the peri- 
staltic movements of the intestine and, at the same time, relaxa- 
tion of the muscular coat of the bile-ducts. Thus there arises 
a deficient expression of bile, and stagnation follows, with invari- 
able immigration of bacilli producing inflammation and precipi- 
tation of cholesterin and gall-stones. For the above-mentioned 
reasons constipation is far more frequent in the female, and 
constipation, being always accompanied by atony of the bile-ducts 
with stagnation of the bile, directly exposes to the risk of gall- 
stone disease. 

In men gall-stone disease may often be considered a mani- 
festation of old age. It appears, as a rule, after the fortieth 
year, and is often brought about by previous infectious diseases. 
In such cases obesity often develops first, and later gall-stone 
disease. For those who are interested in this subject we would 
refer to our communication 19 on the origin of gall-stone disease 
following changes in certain ductless glands. Considerable, 



19 Archives gSngrales de mSdecine, Octobre, 1905, and Monthly Cyclopaedia 
of Practical Medicine, 1906. 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 85 

sometimes enormous, loss of weight is a very frequent symp- 
tom of gall-stone disease, and is probably due to pancreatic 
alterations. 

Gall-stone disease may be regarded as of great importance 
in estimating an individual's prospects of longevity, and at the 
same time as a pathological manifestation of an inactive thyroid, 
or deficient sexual glands in women. This applies equally well to 
the cause of renal colic, gravel, which was found by Professor 
Sajous to be prevented by thyroid preparations and a suitable diet. 

Constipation, an important predisposing cause, has been 
shown to be an expression of such conditions. The truth of 
these assertions is proved by experimental evidence. 

Extirpation of the thyroid provokes important changes in 
the liver. In myxcedema there is a condition of hepatic cirrhosis, 
as shown by Prun-Hudden, Vermehren, 20 and others. Two 
years after we had shown that the thyroid and liver stand in 
close relation to one another, Professor Neusser, of Vienna, 
brought forward the same conclusion at the German Congress 
of Internal Medicine in 1906. 

Another important gland that has a very close connection 
with the thyroid is the kidney. A direct examination of this 
organ is not possible, but we have means of readily judging of 
its efficiency by observing how it performs its function. This is to 
eliminate waste and poisonous products from the body by means 
of its secretion the urine. Thus from the examination of the 
urine we may gather all the information necessary about the 
activity of the kidneys. 

In examining the urine we must first pay attention to its 
appearance, the daily amount, and its specific gravity. Less 
than about two pints a day of a light colored urine, with a specific 
gravity below 1020, indicates a faulty action of the kidneys, 
and the possibility of a large amount of toxic products being 
retained, instead of being eliminated. Such a urine can often 
be seen in cases of thyroid insufficiency, as this condition of the 

20 Over Myxoedemet, Kjobenhavn, 1895. 



86 Old Age Deferred. 



thyroid causes a diminution in the activity of the kidneys. As 
we have shown in a communication to the Paris Biological 
Society, 20 * the thyroid and the kidneys are very closely related, 
changes in the thyroid always being followed by changes in the 
kidneys. Thus it was found by Albertoni and Tizzoni, by Blum 
and others, that extirpation of the thyroid is followed by fibrosis 
of the kidneys. Interstitial nephritis is the rule in myxcedema, 
and is very frequent in all conditions with insufficiency of the 
thyroid. In such patients the quantity of urine is dimin- 
ished, and also its specific gravity, as well as the quantity of 
urea and uric acid, which in consequence are retained in the body. 

The quantity of the eliminated uric acid being diminished, its 
retention in the body explains why gout is so frequent in people 
with thyroid insufficiency, and why these persons so often com- 
plain of rheumatic pains. As we have shown in our above- 
mentioned communication, gout is due to a degenerative change 
in the thyroid and kidneys, with retention of uric acid as a sequel. 

The presence of albumin in quantities greater than 0.5 
gramme to the liter is of grave import, and denotes important 
change in the kidneys. Smaller quantities, or just a trace, may 
not be of great importance. Traces of albumin occur from a 
great number of causes, and are often due to the passage of 
toxic products through the kidney which this organ eliminates, 
as one of its main functions is to eliminate toxic products from 
the body. 

More serious than small quantities of albumin is the appear- 
ance of casts and renal epithelium. These, if present, indicate 
a destructive process in the kidneys. Even the occasional occur- 
rence of hyalin casts is not without danger, for, according to 
Professor Senator, 21 of Berlin, hyalin casts are formed by degen- 
eration of the epithelium of the convoluted tubules, which play 
an important role in the separation of solid products from the 
blood into the urine. The loss of these structures means a ham- 



so* LOG. cit. 

21 Die Erkrankungen der Nieren, second edition, Berlin, 1906. 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 87 

pering of the most important function of the kidneys. Even 
when we find only one such cast in one or two specimens, we 
must not forget that a pint of the urine may contain a very 
large number, and thus every day large quantities of valuable 
kidney elements are wasted and one of the most important func- 
tions in our body is hindered. Therefore we must not pass by 
such a condition of things without serious thought for the future 
of such persons. The length of their lives will largely depend 
upon their diet, just as in cirrhosis of the liver. If these persons 
are addicted to an abundant meat diet, their chances of longevity 
will certainly be smaller than with milk and vegetable food. As 
we have seen, the liver is constantly dealing with poisons arising 
from the decomposition of albuminous food, especially meats. 
The kidneys are destined to eliminate such products from the 
blood and pass them out with the urine. We will treat of this 
subject later in a separate chapter. 

In patients with diseases of the kidneys, the condition of 
the skin is of the utmost importance, as the skin is our second 
kidney. Therefore patients with thyroid insufficiency have 
less chance of a long life if their kidneys are in any way inca- 
pacitated. 

Besides the above-named vital organs, there are certain 
portions of our anatomy which are also of importance in the 
determination of our chances of life. Take, for example, the 
nose. In the children of parents with degenerated thyroids there 
is a great tendency to adenoid vegetations. These are, strictly 
speaking, not a disease of childhood alone, for often they may 
be met with in adults, even in middle age. If large they necessi- 
tate breathing through the mouth instead of through the nose, 
especially at night. Such children are liable to frequent catarrhs, 
and what is more serious, to pulmonary troubles. They are also 
liable to suppurative otitis media and frequent attacks of ton- 
sillitis. These frequent attacks of tonsillitis may constitute a 
serious danger, as they may induce an inflammation of the kid- 
neys. As a rule, in such cases the nephritis passes off in a few 



88 Old Age Deferred. 



days, often without being recognized, the symptoms being 
ascribed only to the tonsillitis. Although the acute symptoms 
may have disappeared and nothing remain but a few red blood- 
corpuscles in the urine and occasionally a few casts and epithe- 
lial cells, yet under the ashes the fire may still creep on and 
chronic nephritis develop. In fact, a good number of cases of 
chronic nephritis whose origin is wrapped in mystery are due 
to such a tonsillitis. 

The condition of the teeth must also be inspected, for people 
without sufficient teeth cannot chew their food properly, and 
thus gastric and intestinal catarrhs may arise. 

Just as important, if not more so, than the condition of the 
above-mentioned vital organs, is the mental state. Thousands 
of years ago it was a manifest truth that the mind governs the 
body. In judging an individual's chances of long life, we cannot 
omit the importance of his mental character. As a rule a man 
with a well-balanced mind, who is not disturbed by the smaller 
worries of life, has more chances of a green old age than a 
man whose easily impressionable mind exposes him to continual 
agitation and anxiety, and who is overwhelmed by the slightest 
untoward event. A man who is a born optimist and who views 
everything in a rosy light, has got far more chance than a pes- 
simist who sees everything in a cloud. A man who is ambitious 
and never satisfied is more liable to mental and physical change 
than one who asks for little and easily gets it. Being disap- 
pointed in his ambition, as so often happens, he becomes despond- 
ent, especially if he is lacking in will power, which depends on 
the activity of the thyroid as previously mentioned. In this con- 
dition he may not only lose his appetite and become ill-nourished, 
but he is also more liable to succumb to the incessant attacks of 
microbes, among which he lives, and which gain easy access to 
the body in melancholic conditions. Sorrow may act in the same 
harmful manner. 

The chances of a bachelor or spinster for a long life are 
always less than those of a married person. Single people are 



How to Determine the Probable Duration of Life. 89 

more subject to nervous change and digestive troubles, and have 
a greater tendency to become despondent and melancholic. In 
bachelors, also, the acquisition of contagious diseases is a con- 
tinual danger, and when they get older after their former merry 
lives, if merry it was, gloom invariably follows. Married life 
is the best guarantee for a long life and happy old age (see 
Chapter XLVIII). 

Before closing this chapter we would state that it was not 
our intention to give a description of the physical examination 
of a patient from the point of view of life insurance, but to indi- 
cate certain points which must guide us in forming an opinion 
on a person's chance of longevity. All vital phenomena are 
under the influence of the internal secretions of the ductless 
glands, which govern every organ of our bodies. Therefore 
everything depends upon finding out the condition of these 
glands. Any well instructed physician can make a thorough 
examination of the different organs of the body for the pur- 
poses of life insurance; therefore we did not think it necessary 
to describe here the examination of the heart or lungs, etc. 

By such examination of the ductless glands we are not only 
able to forecast the approximate length of life, but we are able 
to judge a patient's power to withstand disease when we are 
called to his bedside. If we find the ductless glands of such a 
patient (especially the thyroid and adrenals, kidneys and liver) 
in good working order, we can predict a successful and rapid 
termination to the malady. It is easy to understand that any 
one with a healthy skin, normally acting bowels, and plentiful 
urine, will more readily eliminate poisonous products than a 
person with a dry skin, constipation, and scanty urine. Also 
his tissues will be in better condition, and in the case of wounds 
granulations will more quickly form and fractures heal readily 
with firm callus. 

Such an examination as the above can, however, also help us, 
as we readily shall understand, to foretell the chances of a person 
as to the prolongation of youth and the retardation of old age. 



CHAPTER VIII. 
ON THE CAUSATION OF OLD AGE. 

WE have seen in the first chapter of this book that the 
symptoms of old age may appear in quite young persons after 
changes in the ductless glands, especially the thyroid, ovaries, 
testicles, etc. We have also shown how these glands influence 
the condition of the tissues, and our external appearance, our 
immunity from infections and intoxications, and the condition 
of our nervous system and mind. We have also seen how these 
wonderful glands influence the length of our life and our pros- 
pects of a green old age, and thus it is evident that these glands 
are in close relation with the origin of old age. It is justi- 
fiable, therefore, to enter fully into a discussion as to whether 
old age is really due to degeneration of the ductless glands, 
which supposition must have occurred to anyone who has read 
the previous chapters of this book. 

Sir Victor Horsley, of University College Hospital, Lon- 
don, was the first to bring old age into causal relation with 
degeneration of the thyroid, and after him Vermehren and 
Ewald of Berlin. 

In a communication we made to the Biological Society at 
Paris, December 4, 1907, we showed that old age is not alone 
due to degeneration of the thyroid, but to changes in several 
ductless glands, of which the chief are the thyroid, ovaries, testi- 
cles, adrenals, and pancreas. In a communication to the Inter- 
national Medical Congress in Lisbon, in 1902, we added to these 
glands the liver and kidneys, which also possess an internal 
secretion. 

Let us now see if there is any evidence in support of such 
a statement. 
(90) 



The Causation of Old Age. 91 

As we shall show, such proofs do exist and they are of a 
pathological, anatomical, experimental, and clinical nature. To 
begin with, it is a well-established fact that at a certain age the 
different ductless glands show important changes, notably an 
increase of connective tissue, with subsequent degeneration of 
the secreting tissue. 

Sir Victor Horsley 1 found that the thyroid gland, after a 
certain age, shows an increase of connective tissue, with fatty 
degeneration of the epithelium and shrinking (concentration) 
of the contents of the follicles. Hale White 2 also, examining 
at autopsy seventy thyroid glands, found an atrophic condition 
in old subjects, an atrophy which is more marked the older the 
subject, and that these changes are already present in the thyroids 
of persons fifty years old. 

The thyroid, together with the parathyroids, have been 
found degenerated in old age by Erdheim. 3 Bauman found 
only very little iodine in the thyroid of aged persons. 

Let us add that, luckily, not every thyroid shows important 
changes after the age of forty or fifty, although there is usually 
a slight increase of connective tissue at that age. On the other 
hand there are thyroids in subjects of advanced age which show 
no important degenerative change. This, however, is, accord- 
ing to our experience at autopsies, a very rare occurrence. The 
point of main importance is the amount of colloid substance 
present. A thyroid with much colloid, if it is of normal quality 
(which can be recognized by the way it stains with eosin), is 
a thyroid of good activity. As we know, the thyroid contains 
more iodine than any other part of the body. The main bulk 
of the iodine in our body comes from the thyroid. It fellows 
from the investigations of Decent Oswald, 4 in Zurich, that the 



1 "On the Thyroid and Pituitary Bodies," British Medical Journal, 1890, 
and Proceedings of the Royal Society, 1886. 

2 Hale White: Med.-Chirurg. Transactions, vol. Ixxi, 182. 

3 Beitrage zur path. Anatomie, xxxiii, p. 158, 1903. 

4 Oswald: Zeitschrift fur physiolog. Chemie, 1899, and Virchow's Archiv, 
169, p. 444, 1902. 



92 Old Age Deferred. 



quantity of iodine in the thyroid depends upon the amount of 
colloid substance. Hence a thyroid with much colloid substance 
contains much iodine, and a large goiter composed of connec- 
tive tissue alone and containing no colloid, cannot contain any 
iodine. 

Differing with a famous French physician who said that 
the age of a man depended upon his arteries, we would state 
that it depends upon the quality of his thyroid. For the condi- 
tion of the arteries, as we have shown in different parts of this 
book (Chapters II and VI), depends very much upon the con- 
dition of the thyroid gland, which governs the whole circulatory 
system. 

The parathyroid glands, which are in relation with the thy- 
roid, and changes in which may produce cramps, as shown by 
Jeandelize, 5 Pineles, 6 etc., also present an increase of connective 
tissue, with fatty degeneration of the epithelium, in old age, as 
was shown by Erdheim, 7 of the Vienna Pathological Institute. 

As is well known, the ovaries also, between the ages of 
forty-six and fifty, undergo important changes and involution, 
with consequent cessation of the menses. There is an increase 
of connective tissue with degeneration of the epithelial struc- 
ture. There is also a retrograde metamorphosis of the Graafian 
follicles into fibrous tissue. The testicles have been found atro- 
phied in old age by Professor Langhans, 8 but there are many 
exceptions, as shown by S. Spangaro. 9 

As Sajous 10 and we 11 also have shown in our already cited 
researches, that the various ductless glands are closely related, and 
thus changes in the thyroid are always accompanied by changes 
in the other ductless glands. This rule applies to the present 

6 L'instiffisance thyroidienne et parathyroidienne, Paris, 1904. 

6 Grenzgebiete f. Med. Chirurg., 1905. 

7 Erdheim : LOG. cit. 

8 Langhans: "Hoden Atrophie," Handbuch der Deutschen Chirurgie, 
Stuttgart, 1887. 

Spangaro: Anatomische Hefte, Ix, 1902. 

10 Sajous : Loo. cit. 

11 LOG. cit. 



The Causation of Old Age. 93 

case and after senile changes in the thyroid, with increase of 
connective tissue, the other ductless glands also show similar 
changes. These are found in the pituitary body, the adrenals, 
the liver, and kidneys. We have several times insisted upon this 
fact in various chapters of this book. 

The adrenals of old people have been examined by Miner- 
vini, 12 and he found a true cirrhosis of these glands which had 
included nearly the whole gland. He also found drops of fat 
in the cells of the medulla. Dellamare 13 found a hypertrophic 
condition of this gland in old age. 

In nature every cause has a sequel. Therefore, when we 
see such important changes in glands with internal secretions, 
there logically must be sequels to the alterations in these impor- 
tant organs. And these exist. When the thyroid is degener- 
ated, to a greater or less extent all those symptoms appear 
which are characteristic of changes in the functions governed 
by the thyroid, and of which we have spoken in previous chapters. 

Therefore, when the thyroid is degenerated, symptoms ap- 
pear which are characteristic of myxoedema. And, indeed, Sir 
Victor Horsley was the first to draw attention to the fact that 
in old age we find all the symptoms of myxoedema; and after 
him, .Vermehren 14 and Ewald. 15 They have compared the 
symptoms of myxoedema with those of old age, and found the 
two conditions very similar. According to our own observations 
the most prominent of these corresponding symptoms are : 

The wrinkles on the face and the drooping of the lower eye- 
lids, in extreme cases amounting to ectropion. Then the great 
number of wrinkles on the hands of myxoedematous people, even 
at an early age, and the feeling of cold in the hands and feet and 
their bluish color. 

With advancing age, obesity is often the first symptom, 

l2Minervini: Journal d'anat. et de physiol., p. 449 and p. 639, 1904. 

13 Dellamare : Soc. de biologie, 17 Octobre, 1903. 

14 Studier over Myxoedemet, Kjobenhavn, 1895. 

15 Ewald : "Die Erkrankungen der Schilddriise," Nothnagel's Handbuch, 
Vienna, 1896. 



94 Old Age Deferred. 



just as in myxcedema, and, as we have said above, obesity can 
be caused by degeneration of the thyroid and sexual glands. 

The hair in both conditions is very often gray, and there 
is atrophy of the papillae of the hair and of the sebaceous and 
sudorific glands, with dryness and falling out of the hair. 

Constipation or irregularity of the bowels is also common. 
There is often great fatigue, slow speech, and an apathetic con- 
dition in both these states. The memory shows the same typical 
deficiency, events of long ago being more easily remembered 
than those of quite recent date. The character of the patient 
becomes egotistical and avaricious. There is great sensibility 
to cold and difficulty in keeping warm. The urine is generally 
below the normal quantity ; often it is scanty and of low specific 
gravity, with retention of solid constituents. The processes of 
oxidation are diminished both in typical myxcedema and in 
advanced old age. There is a diminution of the blood-corpuscles 
and of haemoglobin in both conditions. 

After the initial obesity in early myxoedema and old age, 
there comes as a second stage a loss of fat, characteristic of the 
advanced stage of myxcedema (the cachectic stage) and advanced 
old age. 

There is an increase of fatty tissue after extirpation of 
the thyroid gland, and later of connective tissue, just as in 
myxcedema and old age. This increase of connective tissue is 
typical of old age. It first appears in the arteries, leading to 
atheroma, and the typical symptoms of arteriosclerosis. In 
myxcedematous persons, although they may still be young, we 
find atheromatous arteries and arteriosclerosis. Impotence is 
common in myxcedema, especially in advanced cases, and is also 
found in senility, being more marked the greater the patient's age. 

There is no denying the fact that in old age we find, besides 
degeneration of the thyroid, symptoms of degeneration in vari- 
ous other tissues and functions, and the question now arises, 
whether these changes in the tissues are really the sequel of 
previous degeneration of the ductless glands, or whether both 



The Causation of Old Age. 95 

are only accidental and in no causal relation We have already 
answered this question four years ago in our communication 
to the Paris Biological Society, showing that old age is due to 
degeneration of the ductless glands, and stating that these glands 
govern the tissues and not vice versa. Still, we shall enter here 
more fully upon this question, showing by experimental and 
clinical evidence that the changes in the ductless glands are 
primary, and followed by a degeneration of the tissues as a con- 
sequence. 

We can produce experimentally typical symptoms of old 
age in young animals by extirpation of the ductless glands, more 
especially the thyroid, ovaries, and testicles. 

When we extirpate the thyroid gland of an animal we get 
an increase of fat in the subcutaneous tissue, or an increase of 
connective tissue. We know of the case of a young bull which, 
two months after extirpation of the thyroid, gained about thirty 
kilos in weight, due to an increase in fat. The same thing 
occurred in a colt. We are indebted for our knowledge of 
both these cases to Dr. Hertoghe, of Antwerp, the well-known 
authority on the thyroid gland. 

After extirpation of the thyroid gland prominent writers 
have found a diminution in the processes of oxidation; and by 
thyroid gland feeding we can augment these processes, as was 
shown by Vermehren, Magnus-Levy, Thiele, Nehring, and 
many others. This property of the thyroid gland is made use 
of in the medicinal treatment of obesity. Since writing these 
lines we have observed a loss of forty pounds in a man, a patient 
of Professor Launois, of Paris, who, after this loss, felt better. 
We treated him in Carlsbad for six weeks with thyroid extracts, 
and the average loss was about a pound a day. True, this patient 
was also taking Carlsbad water, but we have never seen so con- 
siderable a loss due to this water alone. The diet of this patient 
had not been strict. This loss of weight, then, is mainly to be 
ascribed to the thyroid treatment. This treatment is dangerous, 
however, unless carefully regulated by a physician. 



96 Old Age Deferred. 



Thus extirpation of the thyroid is undoubtedly in causal 
relationship to obesity, which, as already mentioned, is often 
the first symptom of old age. But it also can produce another 
sign of old age, and this is the increase of connective tissue in 
the various organs and tissues. That connective tissue forma- 
tion is an attribute of old age has been clearly shown by 
Demange and Oettinger, who found at every autopsy on old 
persons an increase of connective tissue in the walls of the 
capillaries. Ord and Mahomet found exactly the same thing 
in the capillaries of persons suffering from myxoedema. This 
has been proved experimentally by Professor Eiselsberg, 16 of 
Vienna, who found atheromatosis of the aorta and other blood- 
vessels in dogs whose thyroids he had removed. 

This increase in connective tissue has been found in various 
viscera after removal of the thyroid; thus it was found by 
Kishi 17 in the liver of one hundred and fifty dogs and monkeys. 
Rosenblatt and Jeandelize 18 also described an interstitial hepa- 
titis in similar cases. 

The same change has also been noted in the kidneys after 
extirpation of the thyroid (e.g., Blum 19 found an interstitial 
nephritis), and in the brain an increase of neuroglia occurs, as 
observed by Blum, Walter Edmunds, and others. 

Increase of connective tissue in the skin is a common occur- 
rence after thyroid extirpation, and the name "myxoedema" is 
probably derived from the fact that in some cases, as the dis- 
ease advances, the connective tissue is transformed into a muci- 
noid substance. The name "cachexie pachydermatique," as sug- 
gested by Charcot, seems to be far more adequate. 

Formation of fat and of connective tissue is not only seen 
after removal of the thyroid, but can also be observed after 
extirpation of the sexual glands, the ovaries and testicles. 



16 "Die Krankheiten der Schilddriise," Stuttgart, 1901. 

iTVirchow's Archiv, p. 260, 1904. 

iSLoc. tit. 

19 Blum: Loc. cit. 



The Causation of Old Age. 97 

As mentioned in Chapter II, Loewy and Richter, 20 of Berlin, 
observed that removal of the sexual glands always produced 
a diminution of the oxidation processes. 

The experiments of Prof. Loewy and Prof. P. F. Richter 
are not invalidated, in our opinion, by the experiments of Luthje, 
who did not find an increase in metabolism after ovarian feeding. 
The reason for this may be that he was not in possession of active 
extracts. Anyone who works with animal extracts knows what 
a great difference there is between various organo-therapeutical 
preparations, some being more efficacious than others. 

As a rule castrated animals take on fat, and this fact has for- 
many years been made use of by farmers. At the same time 
the flesh of such animals acquires a better flavor, the pronounced 
flavor of the meat of non-castrated animals being objectionable 
to some consumers. This demonstrates the very instructive fact 
that the internal secretion of the testicles has its effect on all 
parts of the body. 

Castration in man is very frequently followed by obesity 
and symptoms of old age. Thus the eunuchs of eastern coun- 
tries are very often fat and, at the same time, look much older. 

The influence of the ovaries upon fat formation can also 
be shown by their therapeutical action in obesity. Although 
not so active as thyroid extracts, we have found that by the 
combined use of thyroid and ovarian extracts, we could produce 
a considerable loss in weight, when, by thyroid treatment alone, 
we could not obtain it. This, however, is only in the case of 
women. We will treat of this subject more fully in the chapter 
on ovarian treatment. 

Besides the above-mentioned experimental facts, which 
show that these attributes of old age obesity and increase of 
connective tissue can be produced by removal of the thyroid 
or sexual glands, we also have to deal with facts gained by clin- 
ical observation, which show that any cause inimical to the duct- 
so Archiv fur Anat. u. Physiol., Supplement, 1899; and Ergebnisse der 
Physiologic, ii, 1902. 

7 



98 Old Age Deferred. 



less glands, especially the thyroid and ovaries, may bring about 
old age. Take, for example, infectious diseases. They have a 
very damaging effect on the various ductless glands, especially 
so if they are of long duration. Their influence upon the thy- 
roid has been clearly shown by various observers. (Roger and 
Gamier, Crispino, Torri, Bayon, de Quervain, and others. See 
Chapter III.) 

Not only the thyroid gland, but other ductless glands, are 
affected by infectious diseases, and in the third chapter of this 
book we have shown that the adrenal glands show alterations 
indicating hyperactivity in infectious diseases. 

The pituitary gland is also altered in infections, as shown 
in the same chapter. 

Changes in the pituitary body may also be a factor in pro- 
ducing premature old age. It is a fact that all people suffering 
from acromegaly appear much older than their age. In fact, one 
of the first symptoms that arouses the anxiety of the relatives 
of such a patient is that he looks so much older, and it is only later 
that they notice the overgrowth of the nose, the hands, and 
feet. Since, in many people who are getting older, the head and 
nose may increase in size, we may suppose that this is the clinical 
expression of senile changes in the pituitary body. There is a 
condition known as "acromegalie fruste," in which the symptoms 
are only slightly pronounced and which is often unrecognized. 
As we have already said, all diseases of the ductless glands may 
be only partially developed. This is due to the fact that only 
a proportion of the thousands of follicles, of which such a gland 
is composed, need be affected. 

The ovaries and testicles also show changes as an evidence 
of their fight against infections, and we have mentioned the find- 
ings of Professor Metschnikoff with regard to these glands. 

In every severe infectious disease the liver shows great 
change in its parenchymatous tissue, with a subsequent increase 
of connective tissue. 

The increase of connective tissue in various organs, and 



The Causation of Old Age. 99 

especially in the blood-vessels, after infectious diseases, can be 
regarded as an illustration of our remarks on these same changes 
following degenerations of the thyroid. It is a well recognized 
fact that atheroma can be caused by various infectious diseases, 
and can also be artificially produced by several infectious agents. 

The kidneys, through their role as eliminative organs, usually 
suffer, even more than the other glands, in the course of infec- 
tious diseases. Even a slight angina may produce an acute 
parenchymatous nephritis, and the more virulent the infection, 
the more will the kidneys suffer. 

Not infrequently, unknown to us, important parts of the 
renal tissue are lost after such infections, and a chronic nephritis 
may creep on insidiously. After such loss there may be pro- 
liferation of connective tissue, and the kidneys thus become unable 
to fulfill the most important eliminative functions in the body. 
Owing to this incomplete elimination, toxic substances may be 
retained in the body. 

From the above considerations we can see how important 
it is to guard against the risk of infection. This is often impos- 
sible, considering the billions of microbes by which we are sur- 
rounded day and night. The best precaution is to keep those 
organs in good working order which safeguard us against 
infections i.e., the ductless glands. 

Even more potent than infectious diseases in producing old 
age are the results of degenerative changes in the ovaries. 
The effects of castration have already been mentioned. Much 
in the same way do those causes act which exhaust the internal 
secretion of the ovaries, e.g., many pregnancies, or sexual ex- 
cesses. We must take into consideration the fact that, as shown 
by many authors, the different ductless glands are altered during 
pregnancy (Launois, 21 Guieysse, etc.). Many mothers of large 
families look old before their time, as do also many of those 
who lead a professedly immoral life. Even in young girls we 

21 Launois et Mulon : "Hypophyse et f emme enceinte," SociSte 1 de biologie, 
p. 448, 21 mars, 1903; and ThSse a la Faeulte 1 des Sciences, 30 juin, 1904. 



100 Old Age Deferred. 



can see the consequences of such deteriorating agencies in hyper- 
trophy of the mammae, developing in very short time, and also 
a tendency to deposition of fat on the abdomen, which becomes 
pendulous in women who have had many children. The features 
of women who indulge in sexual excesses undergo a striking 
change even in early life. They become coarse, bloated, less 
sharply defined, and the cheeks and chin become fat and flabby. 
Indeed we have often been struck by the great resemblance of 
such a face to that of an early stage of myxoedema, a condition due 
to deficiency of thyroid secretion, which in turn, as shown by 
Sajous, influences other ductless glands. The effects of numer- 
ous pregnancies are far more marked if lactation is prolonged. 

Not all women after many pregnancies, or after unduly 
frequent sexual intercourse, will show symptoms of premature 
senility, as much depends on heredity and also on the surround- 
ings in which they live. Certainly if they live in precarious cir- 
cumstances, as do the poorer women of the working classes in 
many European countries, especially Germany and Austria, 
where these women perform hard bodily work and are badly 
fed, and have much sorrow and care, they will soon appear old ; 
and women looking like matrons at thirty are of common occur- 
ence in the lower classes of these countries. But this is seen 
also in the women of southern Europe, although they do not 
work so hard. This is due to the fact that in southern countries 
girls reach puberty early and are married very young, in the East 
often at the age of twelve. Thus, sexual activity begins earlier 
and ends much sooner. Its end, of course, means the beginning 
of old age. As soon as retrograde changes commence in the 
ovaries, the summer of a woman's life is over; and, just as 
summer is sometimes prolonged into autumn, so at this period 
of her life may she still retain strong sexual desire. Happy the 
woman whose heart, as well as her ovaries, undergoes a senile in- 
volution, for there is nothing more terrible for a formerly beauti- 
ful woman than to see her charms wane while her heart remains 
young. 



The Causation of Old Age. 101 

Yvette Guilbert, in her novel the "Demi-vieilles," 22 de- 
scribes in a picturesque manner the pangs of a woman at the 
climacteric age. Let us quote a few lines : "They try to remain 
young, hide the gradual onset of their ugliness, and look for a 
chance to taste of love again. They cry out for the past, for 
even while they fight against time they cannot detain it in its 
course." This description, however, does not apply only to the 
majority of middle-aged women, but more especially to profes- 
sional beauties. 

It can be seen from these considerations how necessary it 
is for a woman who has frequent pregnancies to observe the 
rules of hygiene. That these produce excellent results we 
have proved. We know of a score of ladies of the aristocratic 
and wealthy classes who, though having six or even seven chil- 
dren, look none the worse. A certain Austrian archduchess 
still remains a beautiful woman, in spite of her eight children and 
the fact that she is a grandmother. Such examples may be fre- 
quent in old families with this hereditary tendency. Though the 
bearing of many children can hasten old age, yet, on the other 
hand some women, after the birth of their first child, become 
better and fresher looking. We can see this especially in girls 
of twenty or more who, having appeared somewhat withered 
before marriage, begin to bloom afresh after the birth of the 
first child. Increased activity of the ovaries and thyroid is the 
explanation of this phenomenon. As already mentioned, the 
thyroid takes an active part in ovarian changes. In a young 
girl of fourteen, just previous to menstruation and puberty, we 
may find a swelling of the thyroid gland. During menstruation 
we can often see a distinct enlargement of the thyroid, and at 
the same time certain nervous symptoms such as are usually 
connected with thyroid change. 

Increased activity of the thyroid during pregnancy is shown 
by a swelling of the gland, often causing a regular goiter, and, at 
the same time, not infrequently by the typical symptoms of exoph- 
22 Quoted after Professor Kisch. 



102 Old Age Deferred. 



thalmic goiter. Lactation is also dependent upon thyroid activity. 
After prolonged lactation there is an exhaustion of thyroid 
activity; and, on the other hand, by giving thyroid extract we 
can increase the flow of milk. 

The swelling of the thyroid in the above conditions can be 
explained by the greater demand for thyroid secretion, and that 
this hyperactivity occurs is also shown by the observations of the 
early writers on myxoedema. Morvan, Ord, and Combe found 
that myxoedema was frequently caused by numerous pregnancies, 
especially if associated with prolonged lactation. 

This also explains why women become prematurely old so 
much more frequently than men, for their ovaries are much 
sooner exhausted, in consequence of their activity being much 
greater than that of the male sexual glands. There is a much 
greater demand not only on the female sexual glands, but also on 
the female thyroid, which enlarges every month in many women, 
and is greatly exhausted by each pregnancy. As Hertoghe 23 
says, with reference to this exhaustion of the thyroid by preg- 
nancies, "each child demands one tooth." 

According to Hertoghe, pregnancies are especially apt to 
produce degenerated conditions of the thyroid gland. 

Sexual excesses, on account of the concomitant nervous 
excitement, are also very prejudicial to the adrenals, for just as 
frequent nervous excitement in general, they produce alterations 
in the blood-pressure and favor the development of arterioscle- 
rosis. 

Sexual excesses are also very harmful to men, although 
their action on the thyroid, in men, has not yet been ascertained. 
It is a fact, however, that they diminish the resistance to infec- 
tions, and favor the onset of neurasthenia and arteriosclerosis. 

Changes in the thyroid also become manifest during the 
climacteric, and the troublesome nervous manifestations at this 
period are largely due to this fact. Later, on account of the 

22 Hertoghe: "Die Erkrankungen der Schilddrtise und der chronische 
gutartige Hypothyreoidismu," Miinchen, Lehmann, 1900. 



The Causation of Old Age. 103 

degeneration of the thyroid and ovaries in many of these women, 
there is an accumulation of fat, of a bacon-like character, in the 
same situations as was described above in women after many 
pregnancies and sexual excesses viz., the breasts, the hips, and 
the abdomen. The facial appearance of these women who be- 
come obese after the climacteric resembles that of a typical case of 
early myxcedema. In the later stages, as old age advances, just 
as in myxcedema, the fat may disappear and be replaced by 
great thinness and emaciation the cachectic stage of myxcedema. 
This is less frequently seen now-a-days, on account of the im- 
provement and checking of the disease by thyroid treatment. 

It is a very strange fact that although sexual abuses soon 
bring about symptoms of old age, as do also many pregnancies, 
clinical observations show that total suppression of sexual activity 
is also, if not still more, a powerful factor in the production of 
premature senility. There is no denying the fact that spinsters, 
after the age of thirty or forty, often look older than married 
women with small families. See also our chapter on the 
"Hygiene of the Sexual Glands" on this subject, in which we 
show by experimental evidence the dangers of the total suppres- 
sion of sexual activity. 

Evidently nature will not be trifled with, and the ovaries 
and testicles are made by the Almighty to serve a certain pur- 
pose, just as any other organ. Their remaining in total idle- 
ness is no less harmful than in the case of any other organ. We 
fail to see for what reason this organ alone should be made an 
exception, and to deny this fact would be hypocrisy. 

Persons who live in total sexual abstinence are very often 
of a nervous, neurasthenic, or even melancholic disposition. If 
we consider how intimate are the relations of the sexual organs 
with the thyroid, we cannot exclude the possibility of changes 
in this important gland under such conditions. 

The relationship between the sexual glands and the thy- 
roid is also demonstrated by experimental evidence. Thus Cecca 
found, after extirpation of the ovaries or testicles, that the thy- 



104 Old Age Deferred. 



roid shows an accumulation of colloid substance ; again, Jayle saw 
the appearance of exophthalmic goiter in a case after castration ; 
and, on the other hand, Prof. Hoffmeister, of Strassburg, found 
a premature ripening of the follicles in the ovaries after 
thyroidectomy. 

Freund constantly found goiter in cases of nbromyoma of 
the uterus, and in two cases the goiter has disappeared after 
operation on the uterine tumor. 

It is a well-known fact that exophthalmic goiter can be 
improved by ovarian extracts, as Latzko, of Vienna, and others, 
have shown. 

Changes in the thyroid, as a rule, produce certain changes 
in the sexual glands. Thus, in exophthalmic goiter menstrua- 
tion is usually irregular and often disappears. In myxoedema 
there is atrophy of the ovaries and sterility. The above con- 
ditions in man often produce sterility. 

In partial cases of myxoedema metrorrhagia is frequent. 
By giving thyroid extracts these uterine haemorrhages may be 
stopped. 

After having shown that old age can be caused with more 
or less certainty by degenerative changes in the sexual organs, 
we will now try to show that it can also be caused by various 
kinds of intoxication. Especially is this true of large quantities 
of alcohol continued for many years. 

Alcohol specially influences the ductless glands. Small 
quantities may at first stimulate their action, but large quantities, 
if taken for a very long time, will cause degeneration. 

In the third chapter of this book we have already briefly 
mentioned the bad effects of alcohol upon the ductless glands. 
We have seen that, as de Quervain, Hertoghe, etc., have shown, 
alcohol produces very marked degeneration of the thyroid 
gland. This has been proved by autopsies on chronic drunkards. 
As well as on the thyroid, alcohol also acts upon the other duct- 
less glands. It acts, for instance, upon the adrenals. Its action 
in small doses is similar to that of adrenalin. Alcohol in small 



The Causation of Old Age. 105 

tonic doses excites the activity of the splanchnic nerves, and so 
may produce an increased flow of adrenalin and a higher blood- 
pressure (see Chapter XV). 

Alcohol in large doses may also have a degenerating effect 
on the sexual glands. Small doses can stimulate, but large 
doses are decidedly harmful. Temporary impotence may result 
in such cases, and chronic impotence in inveterate drinkers. 

Though alcohol in large doses is harmful, and if taken in 
very large quantities for many years can hasten old age, there 
is absolutely no reason to suppose that in small doses it has any 
etiological relation to senility. In fact, there are many cases 
on record of persons who have taken alcohol, especially wine in 
limited quantity, every day, and have lived to enjoy a healthy 
old age. 

One of our confreres, a surgeon of Lotharingia named 
Politiman, lived to be 140. As Professor Pel, whom we quote, 
says, the historian explains that this old age was due to the 
medicine this worthy doctor took every day after doing his work. 
He had drunk his fill every night since the age of twenty-five 
years. Another surgeon, Espagno, lived to be 112 with no less 

moderate habits! Countess K , who died in Nicolajew in 

Russia, a few years ago, at the age of in years, took daily a 
cordial in the form of a good drink of cognac ; and about one and 
a half years ago the Daily Mail of London brought to public 
notice the case of a Mrs. Anderson living in Springfield, near 
Glasgow, who, in spite of her 103 years, was taking daily a table- 
spoonful of whiskey. 

A strong point against the anti-alcohol faddists is the case 
of Brown, 24 an Irish peasant, who, after many years of heavy 
beer-drinking, attained the age of 120. His tombstone exhibits 
the following epitaph : 

"Here lies Brown, who became 120 only through the strong 
beer he was drinking. He was constantly drunk, and in this 
condition so terrible, that even death was afraid of him. When, 

24 Quoted after Professor Pfliiger. 



106 Old Age Deferred. 



however, one day contrary to his habits he was sober and in a 
quiet mood, death got courage, seized him, and thus at last was 
triumphant over this incorrigible drunkard." (See, further, 
Chapter XLI.) 

All these examples merely show what we have so often 
insisted upon, that everything depends upon heredity. There are 
many causes that produce premature senility. It seems, also, that 
when only a few of these causes, or only one, is acting, there is 
a possibility of a successful fight against it. It is a different 
matter when all, or several, of the causes of old age are present. 
As the German proverb says: "Viele Hunde sind des Hasen 
Tod" ("many dogs mean death for the hare"). 

It is a very interesting fact that seldom are all the various 
kinds of immoderation united in the same person. Thus, some 
persons may drink and smoke heartily and, perhaps as a result 
of the action of these poisons upon the sexual glands, may be 
better able to combat their sexual instincts. This will also explain 
the drinking habits of some old spinsters or widows. They 
"drive out the Devil with Beelzebub," as the German proverb 
says. On the other hand, many total abstainers from alcohol 
and tobacco are far less successful in combating their sexual 
instincts, and for such persons marriage is a necessity. 

As a rule, celibatarians show symptoms of old age much 
sooner than married persons. 

If among those addicted to drink there are many instances 
of long life, among smokers such instances are much fewer. 

As Professor Pel says, there was only one man among 
many, of those over 100, who was a smoker (see Chapter XLII). 

It is also of interest that among very old people we find 
many with very decided sexual tendencies. Evidently such per- 
sons must be in possession of very active sexual glands, which 
indicates also a healthy thyroid (see Chapter V). 

We may class alcohol with tea and similar beverages. A 
small amount every day may be a good thing, but in large quan- 
tities they may all become injurious and tend to shorten life. 



The Causation of Old Age. 107 

Tobacco, according to clinical observations (Huchard), is 
apt to cause arteriosclerosis, just as alcohol in large doses; and 
this is also proved by experiments e.g., those of Isaac Adler and 
Hensel which show that atheroma of blood-vessels can be pro- 
duced in animals, experimentally, by nicotine. 

Everything points to the fact that tobacco is especially 
injurious to the adrenals. We will treat of this subject more 
fully later on when discussing the hygienic treatment of old age. 

Many conditions of chronic intoxication, and hence prema- 
ture senility, may be caused by faulty food, especially if taken in 
large quantity, for a long time. Even fresh albuminous food 
of animal origin, if taken in large quantity every day, may prove 
harmful. We have seen previously, in Chapters III and IV, 
that meat produces by its decomposition certain poisonous sub- 
stances which should be destroyed by the ductless glands. 

Premature old age frequently occurs in people who live a 
sedentary life, and at the same time consume much rich food and 
alcohol. This causes obesity, and the muscles and nerves which 
are little used, are prone to show degenerative changes after a 
certain time. At any rate the processes of metabolism are dimin- 
ished in these structures, since their supply of fresh arterial blood 
is always reduced if no work or exercise be performed. 

It is a well-known physiological fact, that nerves which are 
inactive lose their excitability and degenerate. This holds good 
for motor nerves, and we can also note degeneration of muscles 
and organs which are not used. Thus, the nerves of an extrem- 
ity, after amputation, undergo a process of degeneration. The 
lower limbs of people affected with infantile paralysis, or of per- 
sons obliged to remain in bed for a long time, show atrophic 
changes. Hence we can easily see the necessity for exercise, 
which increases the blood-supply to the muscles and nerves. Work 
of any kind, even mental work alone, is a means of preventing 
precocious senility; if manual exercise is combined with it, it is 
still more efficacious. 

Plutarch, in his "De educatione puerorum," mentions that 



108 Old Age Deferred. 



a certain amount of work improves the mind, but excess of work 
is prejudicial. 

We see the best illustration of this fact m American busi- 
ness men. There are no men in any country who do such an 
amount of work, and at the same time take so little recreation 
or exercise. They sit in their offices till dusk, with a few minutes' 
interval for a hasty meal, consisting- mainly of meat that has 
often been kept in cold storage for a long time, after which busi- 
ness goes on again, at high pressure, until the evening. Then, 
instead of walking home and taking exercise, they take a car 
or carriage to their house or club, and pass the evening in smok- 
ing and drinking, sometimes to excess. Day after day the same 
killing of body and nerves goes on till these people look old long 
before fifty, if, indeed, they reach that age. Arteriosclerosis, 
diabetes, gout, and obesity find many victims among such men. 
It is sad to think how many thousands of these splendid people, 
full of genius and talent, could be saved for their native country 
if only they had been taught in their youth the most elementary 
rules of hygienics. What joy does money afford without health ? 

Some of the most powerful agencies in producing old age 
are frequent mental emotions, especially sorrow and grief. 

It is a common fact that after such emotions people soon 
look older. To mention an example, there is positive evidence 
that young persons, after a mental shock, have become gray in 
a single night, thus developing abruptly one of the most typical 
symptoms of old age. 

That mental emotions, especially anger, grief, sorrow, fright, 
anxiety, etc., are very harmful to glands with an internal secre- 
tion, is shown by a series of clinical observations. Sajous has 
in fact termed sensorium commune, i.e., the center which receives 
all shocks, the governing center of the ductless glands, located in 
the pituitary body. 

With mental emotion there is often disturbance of a func- 
tion, interference with which is very liable to hasten the onset 
of old age, and this is sleep. 



The Causation of Old Age. 109 

We frequently notice that persons who have not slept well 
for several nights, especially if passed on a railway journey, 
look worn out and older. After a good night's rest these effects 
disappear and they look fresh and younger again. 

There are other functional disturbances which are espe- 
cially harmful as they interfere with the elimination of harmful 
products either introduced with the food or found in the body 
(e.g., uric acid). This applies also to the bowels, perspiration, 
and diuresis. When these important functions are checked, there 
is retention of poisonous products and a condition of auto-intoxi- 
cation. These functions are governed by the ductless glands, 
especially the thyroid, as we have seen in Chapter VI. It is easy 
to understand that by their interruption the onset of old age is 
hastened, as these toxins will cause deterioration and destruction 
of epithelium and the formation of connective tissue in its place. 
Retained poisonous products play a very great etiological role 
in the production of arteriosclerosis, which is found as a typical 
symptom of old age in the large majority of aged persons. 

We thus see that all those agencies which by common consent 
are usually considered the most frequent causes of old age, are 
also very detrimental to the ductless glands, especially the thy- 
roid. They produce hyperactivity, with subsequent exhaustion, 
in these important glands. The pathological and anatomical changes 
indicating hyperactivity give place to those of atrophy. We have 
given an example of this in discussing the changes in the thy- 
roid in infectious diseases. The formation of connective tissue 
is the final result. Thus a condition of the thyroid arises similar 
to that in myxoedema, which, as we have stated, can be pro- 
duced by causes similar to those which produce old age i.e., 
infectious diseases, exhaustion of the ovaries after pregnancies 
or sexual excesses, mental emotions, etc. 

The pathological and anatomical changes in the thyroid, con- 
sisting of an increase in the connective tissue, as in myxoedema, 
will logically produce clinical symptoms, and these symptoms are 
the same as those of myxcedema. 



110 Old Age Deferred. 



Therefore we are justified in assuming that old age will 
show the same clinical symptoms as myxcedema. 

We have shown that, given changes in the thyroid gland, 
the other ductless glands will be altered too; for instance, the 
liver and kidneys. These glands have an important function in 
freeing the organism of poisonous substances. As in old age 
their secreting elements are more or less atrophied, they are 
unable to execute their task properly, and these harmful products 
will accumulate. Now, there are important organs which can act 
as corollaries to these glands. These are the intestines and the 
skin. They also are under the influence of the thyroid. In dis- 
eased conditions of the thyroid they are unable to perform their 
functions regularly. The poisons will not be eliminated, and 
thus a condition of auto-intoxication must arise. 

Just as after extirpation of the thyroid there is an increase 
of connective tissue or fat in various organs and tissues (as 
Demange found), so in old age there arises a condition of sclero- 
sis in the tissues and organs. 

On this account, strictures of the urethra are readily pro- 
duced in old men who have had gonorrhoea scores of years ago. 
The prostate gland, owing to the abundant formation of connec- 
tive tissue, will also enlarge, although usually sclerosis of an 
organ is accompanied by diminution in size. In the central nerv- 
ous system, just as after extirpation of the thyroid, there is 
proliferation of neuroglia. Through destruction of the nerve 
cells those mental attributes arise that are deemed typical of old 
age: Egotism, enmity against all new ideas, conservatism, etc., 
which we described in our address on the origin of crime before 
the Philadelphia Medical Jurisprudence Society, April 14, IQO/. 25 
The same mental characteristics are also typical of degenerated 
conditions of the thyroid and pituitary body, as we have seen 
in a case of acromegaly whose history we owe to Dr. Dercum, 
of Philadelphia. 

To recapitulate, we may state that old age is caused by 

25 Journal of the Amer. Med. Assoc., May 17, 1907. 



The Causation of Old Age. Ill 

degeneration of the ductless glands, and that there exists a con- 
dition of auto-intoxication in old age. 

The symptoms of old age are the result of breakdown of 
the tissues and organs which, owing to shrinking of the blood- 
vessels, are insufficiently supplied with blood, and, owing to the 
disappearance of nervous elements, are devoid of proper nervous 
control. 

Degeneration of the ductless glands and of the organs and 
tissues cannot be simultaneous, for the latter are under the con- 
trol of the former. These glands govern the processes of metabo- 
lism and nutrition of the tissues, and by their incessant antitoxic 
action protect the organism from the numerous poisonous prod- 
ucts, be they of exogenous origin, introduced with air or food, 
or endogenous, formed as waste products during vital processes. 
After degeneration of these glands the processes of metabolism 
in the tissues are diminished, and there is an increase of fibrous 
tissue at the expense of more highly differentiated structures. 

The fact that the changes in the tissues are secondary and 
take place only after primary changes in the ductless glands, is 
best proved by the circumstance that they can be produced, either 
experimentally by the extirpation of certain of the ductless glands, 
or spontaneously by the degeneration of these glands in disease. 

Our theory as to the causation of old age by degeneration of 
the ductless glands has been confirmed by several writers, some 
of whom had no knowledge of our existing work. 

Thus Campbell, in July, 1905, published a short note in the 
Lancet, attributing old age to degeneration of the ductless glands, 
overlooking our previous communication to the Paris Biological 
Society. 

Two years afterward Pineles, in an article published in the 
Wiener klin. Wochenschrift, comparing the origin of diabetes, 
tetany, and old age, came to the conclusion that old age was 
caused by the same agency (i.e., alteration of the ductless glands) 
as the other conditions mentioned. 

Sir Herman Weber, in his interesting work on the prolonga- 



112 Old Age Deferred. 



tion of life, also attaches great importance to degeneration of 
the ductless glands as a cause of old age. 

In his work on the same subject, Professor Metschnikoff 
admits, only partially, the truth of our theory on the causation 
of old age. He admits the great importance of the ductless 
glands in the pathology of old age, as they serve to destroy 
poisons. He denies, however, the relation of old age to a 
myxcedematous condition; but everyone who knows the pathol- 
ogy of myxcedema will see that the arguments of Professor 
Metschnikoff cannot stand, for they have no foundation. 

His arguments are that there is an oedema in myxcedema, 
but not necessarily in old age; that the hair falls out in myx- 
cedema, and that myxcedematous women have abundant men- 
struation, while old women have none ; that myxcedematous per- 
sons have strongly developed muscles, and old people, on the 
contrary, weak and feeble muscles. 

The truth is that there is often no oedema at all in myx- 
cedema; that the hair often does not fall out in myxcedema, 
especially in its partial form (hypothyroidia) ; that myxcedema- 
tous women have, as a rule, no menstruation (atrophy of the 
ovaries) ; and that myxoedematous people have not a strongly 
developed muscular system, which is rather degenerated by a 
new growth of fat, or connective tissue, or a mucinous tissue, fol- 
lowing the degeneration of the thyroid just as it follows its extir- 
pation. Professor Metschnikoff also states that certain animals 
that soon become old do not develop cachexia after extir- 
pation of the thyroid. 

This was the belief about eighteen years ago, but now we 
know that they all develop cachexia if the operation is so per- 
formed that the parathyroids, or at least some of them, are 
allowed to remain untouched. Professor MetschnikofFs views 
have been greatly weakened by the far more extensive researches 
of Professor Sajous which have conclusively shown that the life 
process, its activity and duration, is dependent upon the ductless 
glands, including the thyroid. 



The Causation of Old Age. 113 

It is evident from the above considerations that all hygienic 
errors, be they errors of diet or any kind of excess, will bring 
about their own punishment; and that premature old age, or a 
shortened life, will be the result. In fact, it is mainly our own 
fault if we become senile at sixty or seventy, and die before ninety 
or a hundred. 

It may be the privilege of a few to live until ninety, even 
though worshipping immoderately at the altars of Bacchus or 
Venus ! But these are very few, and as we have seen, they have 
lived on the heritage of their forefathers, not merely in an illus- 
trative sense, but also in reality, for the greater number of such 
persons have grown up in easy circumstances without knowing 
the wear and tear of care and sorrow. 

Not only old age, but the majority of diseases, are due to 
our own fault in undermining our natural immunity against infec- 
tions, and subjecting our various organs to unreasonable over- 
work and exertion. We do not believe that the worst slave- 
driver of olden days subjected his slaves to such treatment as 
we do our own organs, and especially our nerves. At last they 
must rebel, and disease, with early death or premature old age, 
will be the result. 

It is literally true, as the German proverb says : "J e der ist 
seines Gliickes Schmied" (every man is the locksmith of his own 
happiness), and as a variation on this we would say: "Every man 
is the guardian of his own health." 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE RATIONAL PREVENTION OF PREMATURE OLD AGE AND 
THE TREATMENT OF OLD AGE. 

General Remarks. 

WE have shown in previous chapters, through facts from 
pathological anatomy, experimental pathology, and clinical medi- 
cine, that old age is a disease characterized by the abundant 
growth of connective tissue, diminution of the oxidations, and 
a condition of auto-intoxication. 

This disease is caused by the degeneration of the glands with 
internal secretion, especially the thyroid, ovaries, testicles, liver, 
and kidneys. 

In the same way, and to the same extent as most other dis- 
eases, this disease is also amenable to treatment, although a thor- 
ough cure, except in cases beginning in very early years, is just 
as little possible as in most other diseases. 

In keeping with the majority of diseases, old age is progres- 
sive, and, in fact, is so to a far higher degree than other 
diseases. It is seldom stationary; it goes on all the time. 
This we shall easily be brought to understand from the fact 
that the more time progresses, the more food is taken to sustain 
the processes of life. By the deficient action of the glands, whose 
role is the proper assimilation of the food and the destruction 
and elimination of poisonous products of the body, these toxic 
substances will accumulate, day by day, especially if meat be 
taken, and thus the continual poisoning will be augmented as 
time goes on. Thus it must be our most important task to check 
the progress of a condition in so high a degree injurious to 
the body. 

Let us consider the means by which we can prevent this 
(114) 



Prevention of Premature Old Age. 115 

disease, for "prevention is better than cure," says the English 
proverb. 

The preventive treatment of old age is in no less degree pos- 
sible than that of any other disease. To prevent old age ration- 
ally, we must avoid all those harmful agencies which may be 
deleterious to the glands with internal secretions, as it is the 
degeneration of these glands that brings it about. These agen- 
cies, however, being exceedingly numerous, we have mentioned 
in the previous chapter only those which are in the highest degree 
detrimental and also the most frequent. 

By avoiding these we believe we could successfully combat 
old age, but only for a certain time; and if not longer, in spite 
of our careful hygiene, it would not be our fault, but that of our 
ancestors of many generations ago who did not observe the rules 
of hygiene even as well as we do, and left us ductless glands of 
inferior quality. 

Parents can only bequeath to their children ductless glands 
of the same quality as they themselves possess. This undoubted 
fact is clearly proved by the experimental, pathological, and ana- 
tomical results we have mentioned in the chapter on heredity. 
We will illustrate this by the following examples, which will 
show how often it is difficult to avoid harmful agencies, and how 
much depends on having been born with healthy ductless glands. 

A person inhalesi air that contains virulent bacilli and con- 
tracts tuberculosis. Another drinks a glass of water or milk, 
contaminated by water or kept in vessels that have been washed 
with water containing the bacilli of Eberth, and contracts typhoid 
fever. Conversely, others who have inhaled the same air and 
drunk much more of the same water, have remained free from 
any infection. 

The cause of this is that the first mentioned have inherited 
defective ductless glands from their ancestors, and probably after- 
ward have ill-treated these glands by an immoderate use of all 
those agencies that are detrimental to them, such as alcohol, 
sexual excesses, much meat, tobacco, tea and coffee in large quan- 



116 'Old Age Deferred. 



titles, etc., and thus could not produce anti-bodies to counteract 
the infection. 

Of course, the fault does not lie entirely with such people, 
but that from their birth they are the victims of the immoderation 
of their ancestors; and by this fact alone are doomed to more 
easily succumb in the incessant fight against the microbes, and 
therefore a limited lifetime has been already meted out to them 
at birth. 

We have, in the chapter on heredity, quoted instances of 
persons coming of short-lived families, who reached a great old 
age; but this was due solely to exceedingly careful hygiene. It 
is not always easy to observe these rules scrupulously, and besides 
often necessitates the possession of means to carry them out and 
to enable us to be more exempt from the wear and tear of life 
cares and sorrow, which shorten the lives even of persons with 
healthy glands, though much more of persons who have inherited 
defective ductless glands. 

It has been shown by statistics 1 that the present generation 
is longer lived, and that the average of life is longer, than was 
the case one hundred years ago. This is solely due to the fact 
that now-a-days we know more of hygiene than our forefathers 
did, although the struggle for existence and competition every- 
where has certainly become more keen, with the inevitable worry 
and depression of mind which it so frequently brings about. This 
lengthened life is certainly due to more careful hygiene, espe- 
cially against infectious diseases. 

The extended life of an individual depends always, first, on 
the inherited qualities of the ductless glands, and, secondly, on a 
sound observance of hygienic measures. 

To prevent old age coming on too soon, the first condition 
necessary is the possession of healthy ductless glands, and this 
will depend, as just stated, on heredity. We can exert no 
influence on the generations that have passed away, and must 

1 Westergaard : "Die Lehre von der Mortalitat u. Morbilitat," second 
edition, Jena, 1901. 



Prevention of Premature Old Age. 117 

therefore direct all our attention to the generations that are to 
come. This can only be done by influencing the laws of mar- 
riage, and particularly by prohibiting the marriage of persons 
suffering from diseases that are most detrimental to the glands 
with internal secretions. 

Children of people suffering from syphilis, tuberculosis, 
chronic alcoholism, etc., are, as we have seen, born with con- 
genital atrophy of the thyroid gland, and are especially apt to 
acquire all infectious diseases, such as tuberculosis, with the 
greatest facility. 

The Bible is literally true when it says that the sins of the 
fathers are visited even unto the third generation. 

Thus we can influence the baby even before it is born ; let us 
then consider what we can do after its birth to prevent premature 
old age and to secure for it a prolonged existence. 

The mother of the future child must carefully avoid any- 
thing that may prove fatal to the foetus or influence its nutrition. 
It is a well demonstrated fact that different kinds of harmful 
products, i.e., drugs and probably also stimulants like alcohol, 
coffee, etc., can be conveyed to the foetus. A pregnant woman 
must, therefore, most strictly observe all the rules of hygiene, 
and especially abstain from the use of drugs which (as for in- 
stance, iodine, the bromides, etc. ) can also take effect on the foetus 
and prove detrimental ; emotions must especially be avoided. 

When the child is born the best nutriment for the baby is 
the milk of its mother, and if the mother be not available for 
this purpose, a wet nurse must be obtained, for human milk is 
indispensable in the nourishment of the baby if we desire to 
influence its future immunity against infections ; for this impor- 
tant purpose all the internal secretions of the ductless glands go 
into the child through the milk which contains them. Sajous 
holds that millions of infants die solely because they are deprived 
of what nature provided for them, the maternal milk, which not 
only nourishes them, but protects them against disease. 

The infant is practically helpless against infections, for its 



118 Old Age Deferred. 



thyroid contains scarcely any colloid substance, sometimes none; 
and it also contains no iodine, 2 especially in children who are 
descended from parents suffering from chronic cachectic diseases, 
such as tuberculosis, syphilis, malaria, insanity, etc. The other 
glands are also not yet sufficiently developed, as this takes place 
generally in the years toward puberty. 

All the internal secretions will, therefore, come to the chil- 
dren from the mother or wet nurse. 

The above fact also explains why infectious diseases are so 
very frequent among infants, and also among children before the 
years of puberty. 

The avoidance of infectious diseases is especially important 
for infants, for in later life many other infections will occur 
preferably in those children whose ductless glands have been 
weakened by previous infection. Therefore, even with adults, 
when we take the history of a case we should inquire whether, in 
childhood or later, the patient has suffered from infectious dis- 
eases. The necessity of such a procedure will be more clear after 
we have shown their relationship with a weakening of the ductless 
glands. 

The possibility of premature old age is greater in a person 
who has suffered from one or several infectious diseases in child- 
hood than in another who did not contract any. 

Very interesting experiments have been made on puppies 
fed on their mothers' milk, and some with raw and boiled cows' 
milk, showing the superiority of the bitches' milk, and also of 
the unboiled milk. 

When human milk is not available for divers reasons, fresh 
cow's milk should be employed, using it raw, however, in order 
not to destroy, by boiling, various substances of the nature of 
ferments. Before giving it to the baby, the cow's milk should be 
diluted with water, and milk-sugar and cream should be added to 
make it more like human milk (see Chapter on "Milk Diet"). 



2 Baumann: "Zeitschrift fiir Physiolog. Chemie," 21, 319, 1895; 22, 1, 1896. 



Prevention of Premature Old Age. 119 

Of course, when giving raw milk, we must ascertain that 
it comes from cows examined specially for tuberculosis, and that 
the milk is of the best quality and very fresh since it has been 
shown that its power to kill bacteria and therefore to protect 
the child begins to decrease soon after it is drawn. 

Not only for the infant in arms, but for the growing baby 
and child during its first year, milk food, containing largely of 
milk and cereals, will be the best diet, excluding meat entirely, 
since in these tender years the ductless glands are not sufficiently 
developed to destroy poisonous products that arise from the end- 
products of decomposition of meat. By giving these little creat- 
ures meat we may depreciate the efficiency of their ductless 
glands through unnecessary strain in the destruction of poisons, 
and thus diminish their chances in later life, of a prolongation of 
youth and a happy old age. For the same reasons and even 
more weighty ones, alcohol, coffee, tea, etc., should be avoided. 

It is sad to reflect that, in some countries, alcohol is given to 
children, who are even far more helpless against it than adults. 

We have observed in Northern Hungary that the children of 
the Slovacks, a Slav nation that inhabits certain parts of Hun- 
gary the native land of the writer, are stunted in their growth. 
The reason for this is, that in these parts of Hungary, where there 
are plenty of potatoes, but a scarcity of other food, the peas- 
ants give brandy to their youngsters. As we have seen in the 
second chapter of this book, the growth of the human body 
depends on the thyroid gland. The fact that these children do 
not grow shows that alcohol is deleterious to the thyroid. This 
question will be considered more fully in the chapter on alcohol. 
The advantages of milk food we shall also treat more fully 
in a separate chapter. 

To deal with old age rationally, we must begin in 
childhood to fight against it, as all those agencies that tend to 
produce it prematurely can at this age prove far more deleterious ; 
and as in this world no action is lost whether for good or evil 
we must reap the results of our imprudence in later life. 



120 Old Age Deferred. 



Unhappily at this tender age we have no reasoning powers, 
the glands governing them not having been developed, and there- 
fore our parents or guardians must act for us. Their want must 
also be supplied by the teacher, and we believe it would be produc- 
tive of great good to teach the elementary rules of hygiene in 
school at the same time as reading and writing. 

The impressions we first get in childhood remain through- 
out life and are never forgotten; therefore, hygiene should be 
learned even by small children. The soul of a child is like plaster 
of Paris, that can, like dough, be moulded into any shape we 
desire. It is at this early age that we should learn of the necessity 
of a bath every day, of moderation in food, the avoidance of 
certain stimulants, such as alcohol, and also of tea and coffee in 
large quantities. 

Alcohol, coffee, and tea are especially injurious to children. 
The celebrated German clinician, Strumpell, writes as follows in 
the Pedagogical Pathology: "Among the acute as well as chronic 
intoxications which can be the cause not only of a temporary, 
but also of a prolonged psychopathic condition, intoxication by 
alcohol, and by stimulants generally, plays the greatest role. 
Such abuse is especially noxious to children, and causes an enor- 
mous number of diseases with psychopathic results." We our- 
selves believe that it is a crime to give alcohol to children, and 
that it should be punishable as such. 

Dr. F. Heyn, in a statistical contribution on "Idiocy," that 
appeared recently in the Psychiatrisch Neurologische Wochen- 
schrift, showed that in 17.6 per cent, of cases of idiocy in children 
the above mentioned fault in hygiene the use of alcohol, tea, and 
coffee was the cause. Thirteen years ago Director Triiper, in 
a monograph on the psychopathic conditions of childhood, insisted 
on abstinence not only from alcohol, but also from coffee, by 
women during pregnancy ; but it should be noted also that these 
agencies continue to be deleterious years after a child is born. 

Above all else we must try to make a good man or woman 
of the child, as this also is an essential safeguard against dis- 



Prevention of Premature Old Age. 121 

ease and premature old age. We should endeavor to interest 
children while they are yet of a school age in the fine arts, such as 
tnusic, painting, and literature, as they have a very favorable 
influence on the hygiene of the mind in after years. Religious 
instruction also gives good results in this respect. 

When children approach puberty it is important to avoid 
an agency that may prove very deleterious to certain of the glands 
with internal secretions, and this is masturbation. 

We will not commit the error made by so many unscientific 
writers of ascribing much greater importance to this matter 
than it deserves. It certainly is not true that tabes dorsalis, 
dementia paralytica, or other serious nervous diseases will result 
from this source; but it cannot be denied that neurasthenia or 
hysteria or impotency sexual neurasthenia can be promoted 
6y the exaggeration of masturbation, if indulged in many years. 

Masturbation is always injurious to the sexual glands, more 
so to the male than to the female organs, and in addition to the 
thyroid, and if in excess to the adrenals. It also very un- 
favorably influences the mind and character. 

In youth, instruction as to the control of the sexual passions 
will be of the utmost importance, even considering alone the 
dangers of infections, especially of gonorrhoea, which not only 
endangers the future husband, but the future wife also. We need 
6ere but mention the well-known fact that the thorough and 
radical cure of syphilis may even more readily be accomplished 
than that of chronic gonorrhoea. 

We have mentioned above that after gonorrhoea (every 
chronic gonorrhoea involves the prostate gland) there are severe 
disturbances of the nervous system, which may also influence the 
mind, causing hypochondria. 

To prevent all these dangers there has been formed in 
France a society called "Societe Franchise de Prophylaxie Sani- 
taire et Morale," which advocates the necessity of instructing 
boys and girls as to all the dangers that threaten them and how 
to avoid them. 



122 Old Age Deferred. 



Happy is the young man who is able to live in perfect 
chastity without harm to mind or body. We will enter more 
fully into the consequences of complete sexual abstinence in the 
chapter on sexual hygiene ; but the great majority of young men 
have the danger from sexual intercourse suspended, as the sword 
of Damocles, over their heads, and the best way to avoid this is 
by marriage. 

Marriage is, indeed, an invaluable aid in the struggle against 
old age; but sometimes, although this is an exception, it may 
turn out to be a double-edged sword. 

By marriage a young man acquires regular habits, and by 
the assistance of a loving wife is better able to control his pas- 
sions ; and last, but not least, the hygiene of the mind will also 
be improved. The inevitable hardships of life are thus less felt. 

These great advantages of marriage can, however, exist 
only in cases where the two halves make one whole i.e., where 
the sun of happiness shines in the marital sky. For this purpose 
each of these two halves must endeavor best to please the other. 
The husband must, as is quite in the nature of things, show the 
utmost forbearance to the wife, and never forget that, on account 
of her different anatomical and physiological constitution, the 
mind of the female is far more exposed to frequent irritation as a 
natural consequence of the frequent alterations of the sexual 
glands and thyroid in women. It would be unreasonable to 
blame her for a condition for which not the woman, but her 
Maker, is responsible. 

If married life is one of the best means to defer old age, 
on the other hand it is positively certain that unhappy marriages 
are the surest means to hasten its oncoming; but these are the 
exception, and, as in everything else, the exception only proves the 
rule. 

A single man, or woman, is far more exposed to all the 
agencies we have referred to above as being deleterious in caus- 
ing old age and especially depressed conditions of the mind, these 
being the consequences of total sexual abstinence, faults of 



Prevention of Premature Old Age. 123 

hygiene in diet, use of stimulants (alcohol in men, coffee, tea, 
etc., in women), fewer precautions against disease, and so many 
other agencies of less importance that there can be no doubt that 
the bachelor or spinster, as a rule, will become old in earlier years 
than the married person. Therefore, although himself still a 
bachelor, the writer feels compelled to sing the praises of married 
life as a hygienic factor favoring old age. 

The possession of children is heavenly bliss to married peo- 
ple, and their pride and joy in them, and in living with youngsters, 
renders the parents young, as the German proverb says. But as 
every good thing, if in excess, may turn out to be harmful, omne 
quod est nimium vertitur in vitima, so too, many pregnancies may 
prove very harmful in the fight against old age, especially when 
the mother nurses for a long period each of the children. In 
women who produce much milk this may prove advantageous to 
health if not too greatly prolonged ; but in women with a meager 
provision of milk as in cases of thyroid insufficiency it may 
prove disastrous by destroying the means of keeping youthful till 
an advanced period. 

In married women with many pregnancies much will depend 
on external circumstances of life, and it is certain that nothing 
will hasten the advance of old age as many pregnancies, the 
mother suckling all the children herself, in combination with defi- 
cient food, the wear and tear of poverty, and with anxiety as to 
the morrow. This cruel struggle for daily bread is what renders 
the women of the lower classes old before their youth has passed. 

To prevent the deleterious consequences of too many preg- 
nancies on beauty, health, and wealth, in certain countries, as in 
France, the habit of having one or two children has been encour- 
aged by artificial means. However, as is always the case when 
our acts disregard Nature, great mischief may thus arise, and 
even in cases where death has not followed abortions, very often 
such irreparable damage is caused to the organs on which youth 
and beauty depend that the oncoming of old age is still further 
hastened. 



124 Old Age Deferred. 



The endometritis and peri- and parametritis of many years 
duration, which are sometimes the result of such procedures, 
influence the appearance of these persons more unfavorably than 
many pregnancies. 

Parents who have many children may be regarded as the 
happiest of mankind. Their name is forever perpetuated through 
their numerous sons, and their flesh and blood survives in their 
children, to quote the great German philosopher, Schopenhauer. 

The years of the climacteric are the most troublesome in mar- 
ried life, not only for the wife, who is directly affected by it, but 
also in almost equal degree for the husband, who must show the 
greatest forbearance to his wife at this period. The sun is set- 
ting! It is not merely that the decline of the sexual functions 
produces certain changes in the body, which are especially notice- 
able in the external appearance; the influence on the mind also 
produces deleterious effects. Therefore we must direct all our at- 
tention to the hygiene of the mind. In married women with lov- 
ing husbands and children the task will be much facilitated. As 
we have already mentioned, this stage of human life is most felt 
by professional beauties, who witness with chagrin the vanishing 
of their power over the hearts of men. In many spinsters living 
alone, friendless, this is also a frightful stage of life. Here we 
have again an opportunity to observe the wonderful soothing 
effects of religion, which offers us consolation in all our troubles. 
Religious women will, therefore, much better withstand this most 
difficult part of their life. Religion and philosophy, too, may be 
still more helpful to overcome mental depression. 

It is interesting to note that many women, even those pre- 
viously little given to religious practices, turn over a new leaf, 
and to make up lost ground, become quite pious. Such as in 
their youth were haughty and proud beauties, and only went to 
church to exhibit their new hats and toilette, now become meek 
and modest, and never miss a religious meeting or exercise. 

Still, even after a woman has passed the climacteric, 
everything is not lost if only she be a clever member of her sex. 



Prevention of Premature Old Age. 125 

In fact, something remains that may even place her above her 
much younger sisters, and that is experience and knowledge of 
the world; and if, by the aid of a skillful toilette, she is able to 
make the best of what good looks remain from better days, it is 
probable that she will outdo many of her sisters far below her 
in age. 

Even if at this time of her life, aware of the approach of 
old age and its cruelties, she may be inclined to say with Long- 
fellow, "but the hopes of youth fall thick in the blast/' still there 
are, in the present state of science, plenty of resources open to 
her, no less than to a man, to put off old age for a score of years, 
or to mitigate its effects when it has asserted itself with all its 
terrors. 

We owe our knowledge of the fact that there is a treatment 
for old age to the famous French scientist, Professor Brown- 
Sequard, whose father was American and who, for a time, was 
professor of physiology at Harvard and later a practitioner in 
New York which he left to become professor of physiology at the 
University of Paris. Although, before him, Claude Bernard, a 
man of no less fame, had shown the existence of internal secre- 
tions, Brown-Sequard was the first to draw practical conclusions 
from this fact, and the first who gave a solid basis to the doctrine 
of internal secretion. 

Brown-Sequard was the first to use the extracts of a duct- 
less gland (the testicle) for therapeutic purposes, although thou- 
sands of years before him the Chinese had used different organs 
for purposes of healing, and the savages of Africa ate certain 
portions of their enemies the liver and the testicles to enhance 
their own courage. 

Brown-Sequard obtained surprising results by using the 
crushed extracts of rabbits, guinea pigs, and dogs, of which we 
will say more in the chapter on the prevention and treatment 
of old age by organic extracts. 

Unhappily, as human nature is prone to attack every inno- 
vation or to ridicule it, in spite of the great reputation of this 



126 Old Age Deferred. 



savant, his discoveries were skeptically received; and if the 
extracts of another similar gland the thyroid had not yielded 
such marvelous results, probably the author of the present work 
would never have had the opportunity to write on the treatment 
of old age with organic extracts. 

It has been shown by many authorities that the thyroid 
gland is able as we have already mentioned several times in 
different parts of this book to augment the processes of oxida- 
tion, and it has also been stated by several authorities, such as 
George Murray, Vermehren, Hertoghe, and Laache, that persons 
treated with thyroid extracts appear much younger after the 
treatment sometimes, as Hertoghe mentions, ten to twenty 
years younger. 

Now, if a person suffering from complete myxoedema can 
obtain such a result by the use of thyroid extracts, should not a 
person suffering only from a partial form of the same disease 
be able to obtain similar results ? It would be quite contrary to 
our physiological conceptions that a person in a bad condition 
of health and in physiologically inferior circumstances should 
benefit more, by exactly the same treatment, than another person 
who is in a much better condition of health. Therefore, the 
thyroid treatment of old age is justified. And indeed, we our- 
selves have seen astonishing results from thyroid treatment, not 
only in old people, but also in persons under 40. 

Thus the thyroid can be of valuable aid for the prevention 
of old age, and for deferring its onset as long as possible ; and for 
this purpose it will be necessary to begin our treatment in women 
at about the age of 35, or in certain cases, such as where many 
pregnancies have occurred, even before this age, and in men at 
some time after 40 (see also Chapter LIII). Still, to avoid abuses 
in the use of this efficient drug, it would be necessary to pass a 
law prohibiting its sale without a medical prescription. 

Besides the thyroid gland, the extracts of the sexual glands 
can also be used ; thus, ovarian extracts for women, and testicular 
extracts for men. 



Prevention of Premature Old Age. 127 

We have also witnessed good results with ovarian and tes- 
ticular extracts of pigs. Long before ourselves, Brown-Sequard 
and Professor von Poehl and many others made very interesting 
observations on testicular extract, on which we shall dwell in the 
chapter on the treatment with testicular extracts. 

Besides the above extracts, those of the kidneys and of the 
pancreas have also given us, and others, very good results, and 
they can be used with advantage in the prevention and rational 
treatment of old age in combination with the other extracts, 
though preferably in cases where the functions of these organs 
are deficient. In old age that has already become manifest 
they should always be used, as they will facilitate the work of 
these very important organs, and thus prolong their vitality. In 
this manner an old man will be able to employ these organic 
extracts of the pig to work for the benefit of his own organs, or, 
at any rate, to assist in their work. 

We have given above a sketch of the dangers that follow 
us from the cradle until old age, and hasten its arrival, and shown 
by what means we can avoid or diminish them in the different 
stages of life; we would now like to offer a few hints that 
may prove useful for any of these periods in life. 

We have shown in the previous chapters that the degenera- 
tion of certain glands with internal secretions, especially the thy- 
roid, liver, and kidneys, will produce a condition of auto-intoxi- 
cation, as poisonous products will not be destroyed in the proper 
manner, and also not eliminated from the body. Therefore our 
whole energy must be turned to working in time against this auto- 
intoxication of the body. This can be most rationally done by 
a careful hygiene of these different ductless glands into which 
we will enter later in separate chapters and also by special 
cultivation of the functional efficiency of those organs that 
eliminate poisonous products from the body, such as the kidneys, 
intestines, and the skin. 

These three organs are in close relation to each other, for 
when one is threatened the others come to its assistance and 



128 Old Age Deferred. 



aid it in the work of elimination. Thus, when the kidneys are 
not functionating as they should, the skin comes to the rescue 
and helps to eliminate a large part of the remaining products by 
increased perspiration. Nature often does this spontaneously 
before we come to her aid. 

The intestines will do their best, in like manner, to expel a 
part of these products. Recognizing this co-operative action of 
almighty Nature, we must also try to be of assistance by careful 
hygiene, and later on we shall see what will be the best way to 
effect this; but let us at once urge here that the necessity of 
having the bowels moved daily should be insisted on from earliest 
childhood. Especially is this of the greatest importance in the 
case of young girls, for with them this most necessary rule of 
hygiene is so often neglected. There is no doubt that, in many 
persons, faecal matter can stagnate in the intestines for a few 
days without much consequence, as the epithelium of the intes- 
tines, when in sound condition, may prevent the entrance of 
poisonous products. But it may be different when this becomes 
a habit ; and when the epithelium is not in perfect order, as is 
often the case after prolonged constipation, or with catarrhs of 
any kind, or with excreta which by their shape may injure 
the epithelium mechanically, resorption will follow. 

At any rate, it is an every day occurrence for persons who 
have not had their bowels moved, even for one day, to complain 
of headache and other symptoms of uneasiness, so that it is 
impossible to regard these as simple reflex actions, as some are 
disposed to think, but rather as symptoms of auto-intoxication. 
Therefore the necessity of clearing the bowels every day should 
be insisted on, and again especially in the case of the young 
girls, for it can easily become a bad habit once they have begun to 
neglect it, and the sluggishness of the bowels, to which females 
have a peculiar tendency, is thus further encouraged 

Everything should be done to prevent habitual constipation 
in young girls, for the important reason that stagnation of 
blood in the adjacent organs of the pelvis is otherwise promoted, 



Prevention of Premature Old Age. 129 

and thereby also a tendency to subsequent diseases of the 
sexual organs, from which many women suffer, at any rate much 
more frequently than men. 

This movement of the bowels every day can best be secured 
by appropriate food, such as exercises a gently stimulating action 
on the walls of the bowels. Drugs should be avoided as much 
as possible, for reasons we will mention in another chapter. 

Habitual constipation, if persisting for years, can certainly 
facilitate the oncoming of old are, while its appearance can be 
considerably deferred by a good movement every day, owing to 
the prompt release from the organism of a mass of toxic products. 

The great importance of this can be easily realized if we 
observe the face of any one who has been constipated for several 
days. After a thorough clearing out, the face becomes fresher 
and the eyes brighter. The complexion that was previously a 
dirty gray becomes white and rosy again, particularly in the case 
of young women. Should not this prove an object lesson as to 
the vital importance of a thorough evacuation daily as a safeguard 
against premature old age? 

Every physician who practices in a place where the mineral 
waters have purging effects has occasion to observe that persons 
coming to these spas, looking worn out and gray in the face, 
with pendant cheeks, and showing all the signs of auto-intoxi- 
cation from the retention of poisonous products, always look 
much fresher, and, indeed, many years younger, after the cure. 
We could observe the same effects in our own case after each 
purge, although we do not suffer from habitual constipation. 

There is no doubt that freedom from occupation, and par- 
ticularly life in the open air, in the woods and meadows, have 
a very great influence in effecting such cures ; but we may note 
the same effects after courses of purging without the aid of such 
conditions as the above. 

The care, not only of the bowels, but of the skin, must be 
impressed on every one from earliest childhood, especially the 
necessity of a bath daily. Unfortunately, this is too much neg- 



130 Old Age Deferred. 



lected on the Continent, and becomes prevalent only as Anglo- 
Saxon customs are diffused abroad. 

By a bath with soap the pores of the skin are better opened, 
as the dirt that clogs them is removed, and thus the poisonous 
products can be given off through the skin more easily, and the 
skin thereby justifies its name as chief assistant to the kidneys. 
It is, in fact, our second kidney. When the skin comes into 
greater activity through the action of the sudorific glands, a part 
of the solids in the urine and many harmful matters, which other- 
wise would make their way through the kidneys, are eliminated 
through the skin instead, in which manner the powers of the kid- 
neys are economized. 

It is, therefore, only natural that we should do everything 
to promote these important functions, especially since we may 
regard the skin not only as a second kidney, but to a certain 
extent also as a second lung; for it possesses respiratory func- 
tions in addition, receiving oxygen and giving off carbonic acid 
to a certain degree. 

To assist these functions in every possible way, we must 
allow the air to reach the skin freely, for which purpose cloth- 
ing and underwear should be porous, in order not to impede the 
process of respiration and elimination. This end will also be 
attained by exercise in the open air and sunshine; in fact, by 
remaining out-of-doors as long as possible. All these important 
features will be dealt with fully in separate chapters. 

Before leaving the subject of the prevention and rational 
treatment of old age, we will give a few hints that may be of 
use in any stage of life. 

First, great moderation in the diet should be observed, as 
large quantities of food may, in the long run, impair the powers 
of the digestive organs, and also of several of the ductless glands, 
which are concerned in the operations of digestion and assimila- 
tion the pancreas and liver. Sajous has shown that the secre- 
tion of the adrenals takes actual part in the functions of all these 
organs. Everything that is eaten should be thoroughly masti- 



Prevention of Premature Old Age. 131 

cated and not "bolted"; digestion, in reality, beginning in the 
mouth. 

Meat should not be consumed in large quantities, as it is 
injurious to various glands with internal secretions, especially the 
thyroid and liver, and after having been taken for a long time 
in large quantities can promote arteriosclerosis (see Chapter 
XVI). 

The best nourishment for increasing the chances of a long 
life and to defer the effects of old age, is a diet consisting of little 
meat, much milk, and vegetables. We have for many weeks 
lived on a diet consisting solely of milk, eggs, bread, butter, and 
fruits, and, we believe, have never felt so fresh and well dis- 
posed to work as during that time and, as friends remarked, never 
looked so well, either. 

A strictly vegetarian diet, without milk and eggs, is distinctly 
unwise and dangerous to health, if followed for a long time. 
Our anatomical and physiological construction is not adapted to 
such nourishment (see the chapter on this subject). 

By many authorities wine is called "the milk of old age." 
This is not true, although it is a fact that many old people feel 
better after an occasional glass of claret, when they have been 
in the habit of taking it for years. 

We will deal with alcohol and its deleterious effects in a 
separate chapter. Far more injurious than red wine used in 
moderation, are tea and coffee used in large quantities. Unfor- 
tunately, many of those who fanatically fight against alcohol, in- 
dulge in many cups of black coffee or tea daily, and thus poison 
their nervous system. Besides containing thein and caffein, they 
also aid the formation of uric acid, as they contain bodies from 
which the purin substances are produced (Haig, Hutchison, 
Walker Hall). 

Cocoa and chocolate may be taken in larger quantities than 
coffee or tea. Cocoa with milk is, at the same time, very nutri- 
tious, as it contains fatty substances. 

Spices should be avoided as much as possible, especially 



132 Old Age Deferred. 



sharp, irritating condiments, which are so freely taken, particu- 
larly in America. 

We must not forget that the greater part of all we eat and 
drink must pass through the kidneys, the fine epithelium of which 
is thus easily endangered. For the same reason drugs should 
only be taken under medical advice, and with great reserve, for 
if taken too freely they may not only injure the kidneys and liver, 
but also the stomach, which first receives them. 

Sound sleep is of the greatest importance. Most of the 
organs rest during sleep ; the great brain in particular being com- 
pletely at rest; but the disintoxicating glands are most active 
during sleep. This function should therefore be promoted by 
all means, and we shall devote a special chapter to sleep, its causa- 
tion, and the treatment of insomnia. Let us, however, at once 
mention that sleep can best be encouraged by the use of a large, 
airy room, and going to bed early, say, at ten to half-past, and 
rising at five or half-past, when sleep has been undisturbed during 
the night. Seven hours' sleep is the best; longer sleep, if over 
seven and one-half or eight hours, injurious, except for anaemic 
girls and women. Many people do very well with six hours' 
sleep, but less than this will prove injurious in the long run. 

It is astonishing to note the large proportion of persons liv- 
ing to a very great age that were early risers ; for which reason 
we may conclude that "early to bed and early to rise" is a valu- 
able factor in the struggle against old age. 

We emphatically repeat, over and over again, the impor- 
tance of fighting against our passions and cultivating the hygiene 
of the mind; this must be commenced in early childhood and 
continued through life; and the good qualities of the mind, 
which we will call the "positive" features of the mind, should 
be especially cultivated, such as kindness, good-heartedness, 
friendship, love, magnanimity, hope, modesty, liberality, gener- 
osity, frugality, and above all things, contentment with every- 
thing. On the other hand we may describe wickedness, unfriend- 
liness, hatred, and jealousy as "negative" features of the mind, 



Prevention of Premature Old Age. 133 

which should be smothered at their very inception in the child. 

The most successful way to fight the battle of life is to 
cultivate equanimity and follow the beautiful precepts of Hindu 
philosophy, which teach us never to hunger after honors and 
riches, but to be content with what comes in our way. It should 
be a lesson to us as to what to avoid when we take note of the 
manner in which so many American business men sacrifice their 
mind and health in an insatiable thirst for success and riches, and 
after attaining them, by a real battle with life, find their health 
so impaired that they reap no enjoyment from it. What is the 
use of a million when all that life holds dear is lost in the struggle 
to obtain it, and when, probably, our children will squander it, 
as do many sons of millionaires who have worked themselves to 
death. Rather be a living beggar than a dead millionaire ! 

In the succeeding chapters we will enter fully into detail 
on all the subjects we have touched upon in these general remarks. 
We will describe the functions by which the body rids itself of 
toxic products, and the means by which these functions may be 
improved. At the same time we shall set forth the rational 
hygiene of the organs that cause the elimination of poisons either 
taken through food or introduced from without ; and after having 
demonstrated the most effective mode of freeing the body from 
such poisons, we shall mention the best kinds of food and deal 
more specifically with the advantages and disadvantages of the 
various kinds of food. The effects of certain agencies of great 
benefit to the health, such as the open air, sunshine, exercise, etc., 
will be treated in an exhaustive way. Finally, we shall show 
that we are able to prevent premature old age in an effective 
manner, and even to treat successfully by means of certain drugs 
and organic extracts the condition of old age itself. 



CHAPTER X. 

THE DESTRUCTION AND ELIMINATION OF Toxic PRODUCTS 

FROM THE BODY AND HYGIENIC MEASURES FOR 

THE IMPROVEMENT OF THESE FUNCTIONS. 

THERE is not one thousandth of an inch of our body sur- 
face which does not swarm with innumerable bacteria, and as 
soon as the continuity of our skin is severed, as by a small 
wound, they immediately invade our tissues and attack us. 
Happily we are not without means of defense. Our organism 
is so well arranged that, as soon as a foreign body enters which 
might become injurious, a kind of police organization comes into 
action, and the leucocytes, like policemen, arrest the bacilli, and 
render them harmless by eating them up. This is phagocytosis, 
first described by the great French investigator, Metschnikoff. 
And so marvelously arranged is our body, that there are also 
special substances, the alexins (Buchner), which aid the leu- 
cocytes, and the opsonins, which first act upon the bacteria, so as to 
make them more digestible for the leucocytes. 

To make the bacilli still more sensitive to the influence 
of the alexins there are the agglutinins, observed by Bordet, and 
by Gruber and Durham, which immobilize the microbes, and 
thus aid the phagocytes and alexins in the performance of their 
task. 

The leucocytes are formed in the lymphatic tissues, especially 
the lymph glands and spleen. Thence they circulate through the 
body and offer opposition to the microbes and other foreign 
bodies which they meet on their way. The red blood-corpuscles 
of the adult are formed chiefly in the bone marrow. 

The lymphatic glands play an important role, not only as the 
birthplace of leucocytes, but also in that they are able to arrest 
(134) 



Elimination of Toxic Products from the Body. 135 

noxious substances, such as microbes, and keep them from enter- 
ing the circulation. That the lymphatic structures are able to 
protect us against bacillary infection can be shown by the swelling 
of the spleen in infectious diseases, such as typhoid fever, 
malaria, etc. 

The tonsils are also of some importance for our protection 
against harmful substances. They become inflamed in various 
infectious diser ses such as scarlet fever, measles, acute nephritis, 
etc. Their great value may best be shown by the fact that 
not infrequently, after total extirpation of both tonsils, a gener- 
alized eruption has been observed. Thus we must always seri- 
ously reflect before advising the extirpation of these important 
organs, the role of which as sentinels is shown by their anatomical 
position on either side of the entrance for the most indispen- 
sable elements of our life: air and food. Unless frequent in- 
flammation, and possibly irritative nephritis, demand an opera- 
tion, it would be better not to undertake it. Even if it is 
done, the glands should never be entirely removed. 

A great number of microbes enter our system through the 
mouth with the air and food, but happily they are antagonized 
by the saliva and the gastric juice, which are able to destroy a 
large number of these obnoxious invaders. Like the ductless 
glands, the lymphatic glands are closely connected with one an- 
other, and thus changes in one of these glands are apt to be fol- 
lowed by changes in the others. Hence we can see how a lym- 
phatic structure contained in the intestine, the appendix, 
can often become inflamed after previous inflammation of the 
tonsils. As is well known, the appendix shows great similarity in 
its histological structure to the tonsils, so much so that some call 
it an intestinal tonsil. Several authors have drawn attention to 
the fact that appendicitis has often been observed after tonsilli- 
tis, and Delcour has written a monograph in which he attrib- 
utes appendicitis, indirectly, to thyroid degeneration, e.g., con- 
genital myxoedema. Adenoid vegetations are always accom- 
panied by chronic pharyngitis and tonsillitis, which bring about 



136 Old Age Deferred. 



appendicitis. And since adenoid vegetations are an expression 
of thyroid deficiency, Delcour attributes appendicitis to a defi- 
cient thyroid. We are not prepared to accept Delcour 's state- 
ment, as there are cases of adenoid vegetations without a deficient 
thyroid. However, as we have personally observed, chronic 
nasal catarrh and tonsillitis are very frequent in persons subject 
to appendicitis. The appendix is an important lymphoid organ 
and, if possible, it should be preserved. 

As I have already shown in a previous communication, 1 
the lymphatic glands stand in very close relation to the thyroid 
gland. In diseased conditions of the thyroid we find, as a rule, 
enlarged lymphatic glands, as in Graves's disease, myxcedema, 
cretinism, acromegaly, and also in diabetes. The thyroid seems 
to exert a great influence, not only upon the lymphatic glands, 
but also on the blood-corpuscles. The red blood-corpuscles are 
diminished after extirpation of the thyroid, as also in myx- 
cedema, as well as in old age. On the other hand, they can be 
increased very considerably by thyroid feeding. The white 
blood-corpuscles are also influenced by the thyroid, for, after 
extirpation of the thyroid, their number is at first increased and 
later diminished. Very important is the discovery of Mile. 
Fassin 2 (in the laboratory of the University of Liege, Belgium), 
who found a diminution in the production of alexins after ex- 
tirpation of the thyroid, thus confirming what Sajous had pointed 
out four years earlier. According to Sir Almroth Wright, the 
discoverer of opsonins, the production of these bodies also de- 
pends upon the internal secretions. We have seen that Sajous 
has shown (a fact confirmed by others since) that opsonins are 
mainly composed of thyroid secretion. 

Thus we see that the production of antitoxins is greatly 
under the influence of the thyroid, which governs the processes 
of phagocytosis, and thus powerfully helps in the defense of 
our system. 

1 Policlinique de Bruxelles, Avril, 1903. 

2 Report in Centralblatt fur Stoffwechsel, 1907. 



Elimination of Toxic Products from the Body. 137 

Besides microbes, we introduce into our body a large num- 
ber of harmful products through food and drink (stimulants). 
Many toxic substances are formed by the decomposition of food, 
and also in the processes of metabolism in the tissues. We are 
protected against these substances by certain organs which 
destroy them (as the thyroid, parathyroids, and liver), and by 
other organs which eliminate them (as the kidneys, the skin, 
and the intestines). When these organs are all working well, 
we may get rid of these products and not be affected by them; 
but in old individuals it is different, as their protective and 
eliminative organs have more or less degenerated. Then these 
substances are not destroyed entirely, nor wholly eliminated. 
They are retained, and cause the condition of auto-intoxication. 

It is very difficult to prove definitely by experiments, that 
there really exists such a condition as auto-intoxication; but, 
practically, its existence cannot be denied. We note after changes 
in the above-named organs, when their functions are in abey- 
ance, signs of intoxication in a patient, which include headaches 
and other nervous symptoms, with a haggard and colorless face. 
After a good movement of the bowels, perspiration, and abundant 
diuresis, we see a great change for the better. Thus, even if 
scientific experiments which are made on small animals do not 
strictly confirm the existence of auto-intoxication, the great im- 
provement in our condition after improved elimination speaks 
very strongly for its existence. Therefore, to prevent such a 
condition, we rmst do our best to keep these organs in good 
working order, In the succeeding chapters we shall consider in 
detail the protective and eliminative functions of these organs, 
and the possibilities of their improvement by hygienic and thera- 
peutic measures. 



CHAPTER XI. 

ON THE DESTRUCTION OF POISONOUS PRODUCTS THROUGH THE 
THYROID AND PARATHYROID GLANDS. 

THE earliest authorities on the thyroid gland, including 
Schiff and others, have shown that when this gland is extir- 
pated in a dog, as a rule the animal develops convulsions after 
a few days, and subsequently dies. It is very unusual to find a 
longer survival after such operations. 

Interesting and very instructive experiments by the Amer- 
ican specialist, Dr. Leo Breisacher, of Detroit, Mich, (formerly 
assistant to Professor Munk, of Berlin), have demonstrated that 
it is possible to keep animals, operated on as above, alive for 
a long time if they are debarred from meat and kept on a milk 
diet. 

A perfectly natural explanation of this prolonged survival, 
which had never been observed until the above experiments, lies 
in the fact that milk food is better adapted to animals deprived of 
their thyroid, and that, as Dr. Breisacher maintained, meat acts- in 
a poisonous manner on the nervous system of dogs thus operated 
on. Thus we note that dogs in this condition cannot live on a 
meat diet. The learned savant and others noticed that dogs so 
fed succumbed very quickly, while at the same time he observed 
that no attack of convulsions ever occurred in dogs fed on milk, 
though many other authorities had noticed such symptoms in 
corresponding cases. 

He also observed, and it is a most interesting point, that 
dogs which improved on a milk diet, again got worse after meat 
or bouillon was taken and died in consequence. Of great im- 
portance also is his observation that boiled meat is not dangerous 
to animals thus operated upon, which he explains as being due 
(138) 



Destruction of Toxic Products by the Thyroid. 139 

to the fact that the extracts of meat having a toxic action are 
soluble in water. 

There can thus be no doubt, from these beautiful experi- 
ments of Breisacher, that meat does contain substances that are 
poisonous, and we may safely draw the conclusion therefrom that 
if we, who are in possession of our thyroid, do not suffer from 
a meat diet, it is due to the protection afforded us by this gland. 
If we remove this, as in the instances given of the dogs, or if it 
is degenerated by disease, then our immunity also disappears. 
In myxcedematous people this is self-evident, for they are always 
worse after taking meat, and most of them have an antipathy to 
this sort of food. Also in many cases of severe diabetes (a myx- 
cedematous condition), meat is very injurious, and if taken in 
large quantities can contribute to the development of acidosis. 1 

The above-mentioned experiments of Breisacher have been 
confirmed by F. Blum, of Frankfort. He finds also that omnivo- 
rous animals operated on as the dogs, if fed with meat, die from 
tetany in a few days. But when such animals have been kept 
on milk for a long time, before and after the operation, a large 
proportion have survived, or, at most, passed through a mild 
form of tetany, and continued well until meat was again admin- 
istered, when their condition soon became worse, and death 
ensued, as in the case of the animals kept on a meat diet. Some 
of the dogs fed on milk also died, but before succumbing they 
underwent a long cachectic illness. In any event they lived 
longer than the animals fed with meat, which rapidly died with 
violent symptoms. 

Dr. Blum arrived at the conclusion that the thyroid is a 
dis-intoxicating organ (entgiftendes organ) the function of 
which is to destroy poisonous products formed by the decom- 
position of the albuminous food-substances. 2 



1 "Untersuchungen tiber die Glandula Thyroidea," Breisacher: Archiv 
fur Anatomie und Physiologic, p. 504, 1890. 

2 Virchow's Archiv f iir Path. Anatomie und Physiologie und klin. Medi- 
cin, vols. 158, 162. 



140 Old Age Deferred. 



The Japanese authority, Kishi, also arrived at the same 
conclusion, after having removed the thyroid gland from 150 
monkeys, dogs, and other animals. 

That the products of the decomposition of albuminoids can 
produce changes in the thyroid has been proved by Galeotti 
and Lindemann, who found an increase of colloid substance in 
the thyroid of animals after the injection of leucin and tyrosin, - 
which are the products of decomposition of albuminous sub- 
stances. That meat acts in an injurious manner on the thyroid 
gland, if eaten in very large quantities, has been proved by clinical 
observations and by the experiments of Chalmers Watson, into 
which we shall enter more fully in the chapter on the dangers of 
too free a meat diet. 

The thyroid not only protects us against the poisons in meat, 
but also against many others; in fact, perhaps we may say, 
against poisons generally. Let us, however, specially mention 
those poisonous products which have been tried experimentally. 
That the thyroid protects the body against bacillary attacks has 
been noted by Charrin in the case of dogs, which succumb in a 
very short time to all kinds of infection after the removal of the 
thyroid. We have demonstrated, in Chapter III, the protec- 
tive action of the gland against such poisons as chloroform, as 
mentioned in our communication to the Paris Biological Society 
in 1906, where we stated that in chloroform narcosis all the 
characteristics of an increased activity of the thyroid are per- 
ceived, including symptoms such as we see in Graves's disease. 
We have also found that the thyroid of dogs contains an in- 
creased amount of colloid substance after chloroform narcosis, 
which enables us to understand why this drug is not well borne 
by animals operated upon as above, as discovered by Lanz and by 
Walter Edmunds ; likewise, we may thereby explain why patients 
suffering from Graves's disease of long standing, in which there 
generally is a transition to a myxoedematous condition, are liable 
to a fatal termination after an operation with anesthesia. Cases 
of diabetes (in accord with frequency of thyroid changes) also 



Destruction of Toxic Products by the Thyroid. 141 

often present serious phenomena after an operation under anes- 
thesia, including coma and even death. 

Alcohol also acts on the thyroid gland, there being a cer- 
tain analogy between intoxication by chloroform and by alcohol. 
The changes in the thyroid after the long-continued use of alcohol 
are the consequences of the frequent conditions of hyperactivity 
of this gland, expressive of its antitoxic action. We have re- 
ferred to the influence of alcohol on the thyroid in other parts 
of this book. This gland also protects us against injurious drugs. 
Hunt, of Washington, has shown from experiments that when 
certain animals, such as rabbits, have been given acetonitril and 
thyroid preparations at the same time, they do not become 
poisoned ; whereas when they have taken the former alone, they 
do. Jeandelize and Perrin have also proved the protective action 
of the thyroid against arsenic. 

Gamier has also found that certain drugs, such as iodine, 
pilocarpin, etc., when injected into animals, produce an increase 
of colloid secretion in the thyroid glands. It is, therefore, but 
logical to regard this hyperactivity of the thyroid gland as an 
expression of its defensive action against toxic products (see 
Chapter III). 

From the foregoing it is obvious what an important organ 
we possess in the thyroid gland, and that by its degeneration, 
as in the state of myxcedema or in the much more frequent athy- 
roidia, we become more exposed to all kinds of poisonous prod- 
ucts ; but what renders its degeneration a still graver misfortune 
for us, is the fact that it is apt to bring about the degeneration 
also of other organs which destroy and eliminate poisonous 
products, viz. : the liver, kidneys, intestines, and skin. 

The liver is always altered by extirpation of the thyroid 
gland, likewise as a rule in myxoedema, and even in hypothy- 
roidia; for congestion and other changes follow, as found by 
Rogowitch, Sanquirico, and Canales, Albertoni, Tizzoni, and 
others. A fatty degeneration of the, liver ha also been described 
by Sciolla. 



Old Age Deferred. 

__________________ 

Laulanie has discovered, in the same way as Van der Ecke 
and Rosenblath, very extensive changes in the liver after re- 
moval of the thyroid. Jeandelize also found interstitial hepatitis 
after the removal of the thyroid and parathyroids. Kishi also 
describes alterations in the blood-vessels of the liver occurring 
in a great number of animals after thyroidectomy. 

Hun, Prudden, Mackenzie, G. Murray, and others, found 
usually a cirrhosis of the liver in myxoedematous persons. 
Vermehren found an interstitial hepatitis, with thickening of the 
blood-vessels of the liver, and of the bile, in myxoedema. 

It is also of great significance to note that Gley, Laulanie, 
and others, constantly found biliary matters present in the urine 
of animals from which the thyroid had been removed. 

After due consideration of these facts it cannot be denied 
that the liver and the thyroid stand in very close relationship, 
and this we maintained at the last French Congress of Medicine 
at Liege, where we were glad to see that the President of the 
Congress, Professor Bouchard of Paris, and later Professor 
Neusser of Vienna, coincided in this opinion. 

We have also shown, as already mentioned (Chapter V), 
that degenerative processes of the thyroid are able to facilitate 
the development of the gall-stone complaint. The degeneration 
of the thyroid is not only followed by degeneration of the 
liver, but also by that of the kidneys. 

It has been noted by, Albertoni and Tizzoni, that animals 
whose thyroid has been removed show a condition of interstitial 
nephritis. Blum has found the same thing, and has observed also 
that this condition frequently comes about in an astonishingly 
short time after the operation, say, in 18 to 20 days. The paren- 
chyma also presents distinct signs of inflammation; the urinary 
channels lose their epithelium and present the appearance of 
hollow grooves. These changes occur in all animals, except 
such as die a few days after the operation, and such as are 
permanently immune from the intoxication that follows the 
removal of the thyroid. 



Destruction of Toxic Products by the Thyroid. 143 

We can also observe clinically that removal or degeneration 
of the thyroid are capable of producing changes in the kidneys ; 
for after the operation, as a rule, albumin appears in the urine. 

In myxcedema and hypothyroidia there is also very fre- 
quently albumin in the urine, as well as hyalin or granular casts. 
In such cases the urine is usually not copious; very frequently 
it is scanty (oliguria), and its light color and low specific gravity 
show that the solids have been retained in the body. In such 
cases there is often retention of uric acid. In a communication 
to the Paris Biological Society (February 25, 1905) we attrib- 
uted gout to changes in the kidneys giving retention of uric acid, 
after primary alterations of the thyroid as the cause (see also 
Chapter V). 

That the intestines also suffer changes after degeneration 
of the thyroid is best established by the fact that there is obsti- 
nate constipation in such cases, as in myxcedema or in partial 
myxcedema and hypothyroidia (old age). The functions of the 
skin also will be diminished after degeneration of the thyroid, 
as we observe plainly in the conditions of myxcedema and hypo- 
thyroidia. In these diseased conditions there is an atrophy of 
the sudorific and sebaceous glands, so that the skin cannot per- 
spire; on this account a large amount of toxic products is 
retained. 

We can see plainly from the above that when a person has 
a degenerated thyroid a condition of auto-intoxication must 
necessarily follow, as there is in consequence a degeneration also 
of the other organs which destroy and eliminate poisonous ma- 
terials. The liver in such a case will not be able to fulfill its 
function of destroying a mass of poisonous substances ; the slug- 
gish kidneys and bowels will not eliminate them sufficiently, and 
dry skin will also contribute to their retention, since its insensible 
respiration is not taking place. All these life-shortening agencies, 
which may combine to cause premature old age, can be brought 
back to a primary cause the degeneration of the thyroid gland. 

When the thyroid is removed from an animal, but the para- 



144 Old Age Deferred. 



thyroids are allowed to remain, that animal will not then suffer 
convulsions, but will only present the symptoms of cachexia 
typical of the operative cases of myxoedema. 

It has been shown by Gley, Vassale, and Generali, that these 
very small glandular organs, of which there are four, two internal 
and two external ones, possess quite a different structure from 
the thyroid gland. 

It has been demonstrated by many authorities, among them 
Jeandelize, that the convulsions which follow the removal of the 
thyroid are due to the fact that the parathyroids have been re- 
moved completely, together with the thyroid gland. Jeandelize 
was able to produce convulsions by merely removing the para- 
thyroids alone; he attributed tetany and epilepsy to the changes 
in the parathyroids, in common with other authorities, who have 
even obtained good results in epilepsy with parathyroid treatment. 

Several authorities besides Jeandelize have attributed tetany 
to alterations of the parathyroids: for instance, Pineles; and 
at the German Congress of Medicine in Munich, Erdheim com- 
municated his observations in three cases of tetany, in each of 
which, at the post-mortem, there was found hypertrophy of the 
parathyroids. 

Dr. Macallum, of Johns Hopkins University, has also re- 
ported the case of a person who developed tetany in consequence 
of a dilatation of the stomach, and in whom the parathyroids 
were found to be hypertrophied. 

We learn from the foregoing that the parathyroids protect 
us against poisons that arise from the stagnation of the contents 
of the stomach, and that their integrity is necessary as a safe- 
guard against important alterations of the nervous system. 

However, these glands, which were already described by 
Sandstrom twenty-two years ago, have not been studied as yet to 
the same extent as the thyroid, and we cannot enlarge further 
on this subject at the present time. 



CHAPTER XII. 
HYGIENE OF THE THYROID GLAND. 

THE rational hygiene of the thyroid gland consists in the 
avoidance of all agencies that may prove harmful to the gland, 
the most important of which are infectious diseases; frequent 
pregnancies; sexual excesses; intoxications by food, stimulants, 
or drugs ; and emotions such as grief, sorrow, etc. 

It will not be difficult to prevent some of these, but it will 
be nearly impossible to avoid others, such, for instance, as infec- 
tious diseases. There is not the least doubt, however, that at 
times we expose ourselves quite unnecessarily to infections, as 
when we drink water that has not been boiled or filtered, or when 
we take milk from uninspected dairies for a long time ; or, again, 
when we remain too long a time in the confined air of assembly 
halls, etc., and breathe the air that has been exhaled by thousands 
of others, many of them possibly with infectious diseases of the 
throat and lungs. Many a case of infectious disease, with all its 
dangers to life or to important organs, such as the thyroid, may 
be avoided by proper circumspection. 

It is also quite unnecessary for us to expose ourselves to the 
dangers arising from the decomposition of meat, which is par- 
ticularly injurious, when taken in large quantities, to the thyroid^ 
as shown by the experiments of Breisacher, Blum, Chalmers 
Watson, etc., more especially if animal food be taken that is 
not quite fresh and can cause the formation of ptomaines. Ac- 
cording to Blum the thyroid has the special function of destroy- 
ing poisons formed in the intestines, in particular by the decom- 
position of animal food. Now when too much work is thrown 
up on this important gland, it is easy to understand that after a 
time it will give out, and to prevent this we must avoid taking 

10 ' (145) 



146 Old Age Deferred. 



large quantities of animal food or fish (which is meat also, a fact 
not realized by many people), and when we do take it, we must 
first be certain that it is in a fresh condition. To enable us to do 
this we are provided with special sense-organs, and our eyes, 
nose,. and the taste papillae of our tongue will inform us whether 
the meat, and especially the fish or crustacean, is in a fit condition 
to be eaten. 

We have mentioned several times that alcohol and tobacco, 
taken in large quantities or for a long time, are deleterious to 
the thyroid, which fact will justify our abstinence therefrom, or 
the greatest moderation in their employment; those who can do 
without stimulants will always be the best off. 

Sexual excesses can also be easily avoided, and women who 
wish to retain their youth will do well not to expose themselves 
to pregnancies year after year after having had three or four chil- 
dren. It is, however, great good fortune to have a numerous 
progeny, and by careful hygiene, as plenty of instances prove, the 
struggle against premature old age can be carried out success- 
fully. In regard to this we may refer to the chapters on the 
causes of old age and on sexual hygiene. Diseases of the 
ovaries must be particularly avoided, as all changes in those 
glands will react on the thyroid, which is closely related to them. 

Doubtless one of the most difficult tasks will be the avoid- 
ance of strong emotions: grief and sorrow; and yet we are 
not helpless against them, as will be illustrated in the chapter on 
the hygiene of the mind and on the advantages of a religious 
belief. 

Having dwelt on the necessity of preventing injury to this 
important gland, we will now show that there are certain means 
of enhancing its vitality, which effect we can obtain by improv- 
ing the circulation, and removing agencies by which this would 
be impaired. As Sir Herman Weber has shown, it is possible to 
improve the working condition of this gland by massage, which 
should be done daily and is readily carried out. 

It is easy to see that a tight collar offers difficulty to the 



Hygiene of the Thyroid Glands. 147 

free circulation of the blood through this gland, and therefore 
it is advisable to wear a loose, and also low, one. Strange to say, 
many ladies wear such tight, high collars, not availing themselves 
of their immunity from such a yoke, which men have voluntarily 
endured for so long a time. It is advantageous not to button 
both sides of the shirt-band to which the collar-stud is fastened, 
but one side only, which is easily done when low collars are worn 
and is not noticeable; the great comfort and advantage of so 
doing will outweigh all other considerations. 

The vitality of the thyroid gland may be enhanced by vari- 
ous measures in which thyroid secretion, or iodine its main ele- 
ment, is introduced into the body. The easiest way to effect 
this is by taking foods, such as plants and vegetables, which con- 
tain a maximum of iodine. The iodine in the thyroid and other 
parts of the body is introduced therein mainly with our food (or 
by drugs in the case of goiter). Another way is by taking thy- 
roid extracts. Since, at a certain age, as mentioned in the 
chapter on the causes of old age, parts of the epithelium of the 
thyroid are degenerated and replaced by connective tissue, thyroid 
extracts will be the best means, if taken in very small doses, of 
supplying this physiological need. Such doses of the extracts, 
freshly prepared and from a reliable firm, can do no harm, but, 
on the contrary, will keep the thyroid in good working order. 
As we have learned from personal experience these very small 
doses can even be taken, at intervals, for a long time, without 
injury to the health, and we need not await the arrival of old 
age, but should use them as a preventative against it, and in 
particular temporarily where there is, or has been, a great demand 
for thyroid secretion, as, for instance, in convalescence after an 
infectious disease, or after childbirth, especially if the flow of 
milk is scanty, which is an expression of a defective thyroid ; also 
after sexual excesses, and in cases of mental depression, after 
we have suffered grief ; in fact, after any of the occurrences which 
we know to be harmful to the thyroid gland, which, in such cases, 
has been giving off larger amounts of its secretion. 



148 Old Age Deferred. 



We must, however, caution patients against ever taking 
these extracts save under medical advice, since otherwise dan- 
gerous results may be and have been produced, as will be shown 
elsewhere. 

The diet of greatest hygienic value with regard to the 
thyroid will consist of large quantities of milk, with little or no 
meat, but plenty of vegetables. 

With such a diet there will result less putrefaction in the 
intestines, and thus also less demand for the thyroid secretion to 
destroy poisonous matters ; at the same time, along with the milk 
and vegetables, iodine, the main element of the thyroid secretion, 
will be brought into the body, and a loss of this product from it 
prevented. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

THE DESTRUCTION OF Toxic PRODUCTS BY THE LIVER AND 
THE IMPROVEMENT OF ITS PROTECTIVE FUNCTIONS. 

THE liver is one of the most important of our organs. As 
Professor Hemmeter, of Baltimore, says, "The liver is an organ 
secondary in importance only to the heart. Living things can 
exist without stomachs. They can live for forty days without 
eating, but mammalia can only live a few days, sometimes not 
twenty-four hours, without a liver." The importance of the 
functions of the liver is illustrated in this picturesque remark of 
Dr. Rovighi 1 : "Like unto Minos in Dante, the liver tests the 
conscience of those that want to enter, and knows their sins." 

We introduce into our stomach and intestines a number of 
poisonous substances which, if injected into our blood, would 
kill us, or at least, cause grave intoxication. Yet because 
they are taken by the mouth they are harmless, and the reason 
for this strange phenomenon is that they must pass through the 
liver, being brought to this organ from the intestines through 
the portal vein, and are there destroyed. This is illustrated in 
the case of the Indian snake charmers, who acquire immunity 
against snake-bites after having first sucked the poisonous fang 
of the snakes and absorbed the toxin via the intestine. They 
thereby gradually accustom their body to this terrible poison, 
which, taken in this manner, is far less harmful, since it passes 
through the liver. That the liver destroys various poisons was 
first shown by our esteemed friend, Prof. Paul Heger, 2 of Brus- 
sels University, who demonstrated by experiments that nicotin 

l Quoted after Professor Hemmeter. Address to Sixty-first Annual Meet- 
ing of the Ohio State Medical Association, May 9-11, Canton, Ohio. 

SThdse de Bruxelles, 1873; Journal me*d de Bruxelles, 1877; C. R. 
de 1' Academic des Sciences, May, 1880. 

(149) 



150 Old Age Deferred. 



added to blood soon disappeared after it had been passed through 
the liver artificially. After this remarkable discovery other au- 
thorities have found reason to state that the liver also destroys 
other poisons, in particular alkaloids: strychnine and atropine 
(Professor Roger 3 ), hyoscyamine (Heger and Buys 4 ), quinine, 
morphia, curare (Lussana). According to SchifT, and Lauten- 
bach, alkaloids undergo a chemical change under the influence of 
the liver. As SlowzofP found, the liver also protects us against 
poisons such as arsenic ; therefore we can understand why persons 
suffering from hepatic disease cannot tolerate arsenic. This 
should be taken into consideration when we are treating patients 
with cacodylates, or with atoxyl. 

It has, however, been maintained by Zagari that this anti- 
toxic action of the liver fails in the case of bacteria and, according 
to Professor Roger, especially with bacterial toxins in old 
cultures. 

Yet other authors have shown that the liver probably has 
an antitoxic action against bacteria and their toxins. Thus, Pro- 
fessor Adami, of Montreal, 6 by experiments with a minute 
diplococcus similar to that which is found in Pictou's cattle 
disease, and Sir Lauder Brunton, and Dr. Bokenham, 7 have 
shown that the lethal action of diphtheria toxin is greatly dimin- 
ished during the circulation of this toxin through the liver, and 
also that the juice from such a liver has a slight antitoxic power. 
These authors have also shown that the bile from such a liver 
has a slight antitoxic action. They consider that the antitoxic 
power of the liver does not depend upon the blood present in the 
organ, but on the liver tissue itself. 

It has been shown that the liver excretes into the bile poi- 
sons which it arrests during their circulation through the portal 



3 These de Paris, 1887. 

4 Quoted from Hanot, Archives Ge"n. de Me"decine, II, -895. 
BSlowzoff: Beitr. zur chem. Physiologie u. Path., p. 281, 1901. 

6 Adami : Montreal Med. Journal, p. 485, July. 

7 Sir Lauder Brunton and Bokenham: The Journal of Pathology and 
Bacteriology, p. 50, Nov., 1907. 



Destruction of Toxic Products by the Liver. 151 

system. This has been shown by Lussana in the case of curare. 
That poisonous substances are excreted into the bile is shown 
also by the immunizing experiments of Professor Koch against 
bovine plague. He employs the bile of animals which died of 
plague. This contains attenuated plague bacilli, of which Pro- 
fessor Koch makes use in his experiments. 8 

Dr. Fraser 9 has shown that when increasing doses of snake 
venom are injected into an animal a condition of immunity is 
brought about, so that finally fifty times the dose which would 
have proved fatal at first, becomes innocuous. As Fraser found, 
the bile of such animals contains an antivenine, and he made 
use of this bile as an antidote against the original venom. 

These experiments prove that the bile contains poisonous 
substances, including pathogenic bacteria in an attenuated con- 
dition, and also that it has antitoxic properties. Thus we may 
understand how it can neutralize putrefactive products from the 
intestines. Not only bacteria, but all the various kinds of poison 
which the liver destroys, are eliminated by the bile; hence the 
importance of a free circulation of this fluid. The liver serves 
as a depot for metallic substances like iron and copper, and also 
for the more dangerous ones such as lead, mercury, arsenic, or 
antimony. After first keeping them in storage, it then attempts 
to eliminate these noxious substances. According to Slowzoff 
and Bamossi, the various poisonous metals and alkaloids enter 
into combinations with the proteid bodies of the liver. Animals 
that have been richly fed have been found to be better protected 
against these poisons because of their livers being richer in 
proteid contents and glycogen. 

The liver also protects the body against the numerous toxic 
products formed in the stomach and intestines during the process 
of digestion and assimilation. The most important of these are 
the carbamins and ammonia salts, which would be injurious to us 
if the liver did not protect us by converting them into urea. 



8 Quoted after Metschnikoff. 

9 Fraser: British Med. Journal, vol. ii, p. 595, 1897. 



152 Old Age Deferred. 



When the liver is excluded from the circulation, as Nencky 
and his pupils have done by establishing an Eck fistula, toxic 
symptoms arise when the animals are given albuminous food, 
and these symptoms can only be explained from the fact that 
the liver is unable to destroy toxic products. The more albu- 
minous food taken, the more marked are the symptoms of intoxi- 
cation. 

The liver aids in the transformation of the poisonous end- 
products of proteid metabolism by bringing about the combina- 
tion of the toxic end-products with sulphuric acid (Baumann, 
Emden and Glaesner). Thus these dangerous substances are 
eliminated as ethereal sulphates, which are practically harmless. 
Even when these ethereal sulphates are present in large amounts 
in the urine there may be no symptoms of auto-intoxication. 

When the liver is extirpated, a condition of acidosis arises, 
and a large quantity of ammonia is eliminated, which is produced 
in order to neutralize the acids present. The liver protects us 
against acids formed in the organism. After eating a quantity of 
meat, we would be menaced by the acids formed through its 
decomposition, were the liver not active. 

We can prevent acidosis if we eat a considerable amount 
of carbohydrates, at least 100 grammes a day as Hirschfeld has 
proved. It has been shown by Waldvogel that these carbohy- 
drates do not prevent acidosis if they are given by a method which 
precludes their passage through the portal circulation, e.g., 
subcutaneously. 

As we have seen above, the liver receives an enormous 
amount of toxic products from the stomach and intestine, which 
it transforms or destroys. Like any other organ which is over- 
worked, the liver may undergo certain changes when continually 
subjected to a strain, and great quantities of these toxins might 
be able, after a long-continued action, to alter the liver tissue. 
Such a condition we may note in gastric and intestinal diseases, 
especially in those cases where large amounts of fatty acids are 
formed. 



Destruction of Toxic Products by the Liver. 153 

Bouchard found an enlargement of the liver in 23 per cent, 
of all his cases of dilatation of the stomach. 

We can understand that when fatty acids, as a result of 
gastro-intestinal disease, pass for a long time through the liver, 
they may destroy the delicate epithelium of this organ. Boix 
demonstrated this by experiments. By feeding animals with 
lactic, butyric, and acetic acids, he produced hepatic cirrhosis. 

So long as the liver is healthy it is able to withstand the con- 
stant inflow of toxins and will transform them into less harmful 
compounds. But when the liver is altered, as in cirrhosis, 
things are different. We then find a diminution of urea, and 
an increase of ammonia. Happily such a condition arises only 
when there are considerable anatomical and histological changes 
in the liver. 

Salaskin and Zaleski have shown in animals that when 
there are serious anatomical changes in the liver, the ammonia 
is increased, and the urea is diminished. We may suppose that 
in old age, when the connective tissue is more or less increased 
and important liver elements destroyed, a similar decrease in the 
urea formation may take place just as in chronic cirrhosis. 

That in diseases of the liver toxic products are formed 
and eliminated by the urine in increased amounts, has been shown 
by Professors Bouchard 10 and Roger. They found that the 
urine of patients suffering from diseases of the liver is more toxic 
than that of normal persons. 

That the normal urine is toxic has been proved by Seglas 
and Vauquelin, 11 and also by Bocci. 12 Bouchard has designated 
as the urotoxic unit the quantity of urine necessary to kill an 
animal weighing i kilogramme, and as the urotoxic co-efficient 
the relation of the urotoxin eliminated in twenty-four hours to the 
body weight of the animal. This latter, then, indicates the quan- 
tity of urotoxins a man eliminates in twenty-four hours. 



10 Lecons sur les autointoxications dans les maladies. 

11 Journal de Magendie, vol. ii, p. 357, 1822. 
iSCentralbl. fur med. Wiss. 51, 1882. 



154 Old Age Deferred. 



All these calculations of Bouchard have had no great suc- 
cess, however, for many authorities, as Gumprecht, 13 Heymans 
v. d. Bergh, etc., have shown that the toxic effects of the injected 
urine may be explained in part by the difference in osmotic 
pressure between the injected urine and the blood. 

Still the fact remains that the urine of many cases of liver 
disease has been found to be more toxic than the urine of other 
persons. 

When the liver is damaged it cannot destroy poisons in the 
normal manner, as was shown by experiments. Thus, the liver 
cells have been experimentally injured when it was found that 
such a liver was not able to destroy strychnine as well as a normal 
liver. Very important findings have been made by Roger and 
Gamier. 14 They have ascertained that privation, bad nutrition, 
etc., can also lower the vitality of the liver and diminish its anti- 
toxic properties. 



13 Centralbl. fur Inner. Med., 24, 1897. 

14 Roger et Gamier: C. R. Soc. de biol., p. 209, 1899. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
THE HYGIENE OF THE LIVER. 

WE have often observed that people suffering from diseases 
of the liver feel and look much better after abstaining from meat 
and living on milk and a vegetarian diet. If such a diet be bene- 
ficial in cases where the tissues of the liver are degenerated, it 
appears reasonable to assume that it will be equally efficacious 
when the liver has not yet been altered by disease. We must 
realize that the various unwholesome matters we eat or drink 
are carried to the liver to be dealt with, and that the end-products 
of the decomposition of the meat, and other elements contained in 
preserved meat which may not be perfectly sound, may injure 
the liver-tissue, or, at any rate, throw more work on this organ 
than food in the nature of vegetables or milk. 

A milk diet has the further great advantages that it assists 
in destroying toxic products in the intestine, and also that it can 
hinder the development of gall-stone disease (see Chapter 
XXXIX). 

Not only meat used in abundance, but also various kinds of 
spices, condiments and stimulants may be very injurious, espe- 
cially alcohol, if taken in large quantity. Gin and brandy are 
the most deleterious in their action. Wines containing little alco- 
hol are less harmful, but acid or strong white wines may injure 
the liver-tissue. 

The well-being of this organ is essentially dependent on 
the good condition of various other organs with which it stands 
in very close relation, in particular the intestines, for instance. It 
is from here that most of the toxic products enter the liver, 
either by the portal vein or through the choledochus. The intes- 
tine always contains myriads of microbes, which may enter the 

' (155) 



156 Old Age Deferred. 

liver either by the blood or the bile, and thus provoke very impor- 
tant changes in the liver-tissue. Professor Adami, 1 of Montreal, 
found colon bacilli in a cirrhotic liver. 

It follows, therefore, that we must maintain the intestine in 
the best possible condition, and avoid constipation and stagnation 
of faecal matters, with the augmentation of toxic products. That 
constipation is very deleterious to the liver can be best shown 
by the fact that very often affections of the liver and bile-ducts, 
and especially gall-stone disease, are developed in persons 
suffering from habitual constipation. The best treatment for 
these liver affections is a purging treatment, and it is mainly on 
account of their action in this manner that certain alkaline min- 
eral waters have attained so great a fame; in addition, due to 
increased peristalsis, the circulation of the bile is enhanced. 

Proper movements of the bowel are indispensable to a sound 
condition of the liver and for the prevention of hepatic d/sease, 
and we, therefore, refer the reader to the chapter that deals in 
detail with the prevention and treatment of constipation. 

Not only the intestine, but the stomach also, must be in- 
good condition. It has been noted by Bouchard and Hanot that 
chronic gastric and intestinal troubles are apt to cause enlarge- 
ment of the liver. Bouchard has found an enlarged liver in 23 
per cent, of his cases of dilatation of the stomach. Hanot and 
Boit 2 have shown experimentally that the different acids formed 
in the gastro-intestinal tract are able to produce a genuine cir- 
rhosis of the liver. Therefore acid fermentation must be care- 
fully avoided ; and to prevent such fermentation in some degree 
in the stomach and in the intestine, it is necessary to masticate 
the food thoroughly, as will be shown. 

Another very important organ, the sound condition of which 
is of great importance to the liver, is the pancreas. It has been 
found by several authors, particularly by Steinhaus, 3 in his in- 



1 Quoted from Quincke : "Diseases of the Liver" in Nothnagel's "Practice." 
2 Hanot and Boit: Congresso Med. Internat. di Roma, 1894. 
3 Steinhaus: Deutsches Archiv fur klin. Medicin, 1902. 



The Hygiene of the Liver. 157 

vestigation of some 40 cases of hepatic cirrhosis, that the pan- 
creas is also affected in each case of this type; and we further 
know that after disease of the pancreas, as in diabetes, for 
example, the liver is also, as a rule, altered. Thus these two 
organs are in close relationship. 

As pancreatic diseases are among the most difficult to diag- 
nose, and people suffering from them live and die, as do also many 
diabetics, without their particular state having been recognized, 
so, the rational treatment of these diseases being still imperfect, 
we cannot offer advice in regard to their prevention. But, at 
any rate, the safest course will be moderation in diet, especially 
fatty food, which exacts the active co-operation of the pancreas. 
As in the case of all other organs, long-continued overwork will 
exhaust this gland, and thus induce a diseased condition. Mod- 
eration in diet will be the best policy for the pancreas, as also 
for the liver; and to maintain these organs in sound working 
order, meat in particular should only be taken in small quantities, 
and fat also should not be partaken of in large amount. 

Milk and vegetable food, with but little meat, and that pref- 
erably as fish, will certainly furnish the best diet to avoid dis- 
eases of the liver. As Quincke 4 mentions, experience shows also 
that water in large quantities, especially certain alkaline saline 
waters, can increase the flow of the bile; and therefore, as also 
for other reasons mentioned in this book in Chapters XXXIV 
and XLI, water should be drunk in sufficient quantity every day. 
The alkaline waters referred to are certainly superior in their 
action to ordinary water, especially those kinds which at the 
same time cause purging. 

Hot climates have a deteriorating effect on the liver. We 
have often noted the great frequency of liver complaints under 
these conditions, and we have never had a patient from the hot 
parts of Mexico who has not had P. hypertrophied liver. We are 
inclined to believe that it is not so much the climate as faults in 
hygiene, especially in diet and in the use of stimulants, which are 
4 Quincke : "Diseases of the Liver," in Nothnagel's "Practice," 1907. 



158 Old Age Deferred. 



the cause of such a condition in Europeans residing in tropical 
climates. 

A vegetarian diet is certainly the best in tropical countries, 
as we personally found during a stay in Southern Florida, Texas, 
and Mexico. Just as for the kidneys, so for the liver, a bath, and 
particularly a sweat-bath, is of great benefit, since by means of 
it toxic products may be eliminated which would otherwise 
be carried to the liver. 

We have found these baths to be of great benefit in liver 
diseases, and considering the amelioration of the processes of 
oxidation brought about by such baths, it seems highly probable 
tnat they are capable of improving also the working condition of 
a liver not as yet diseased. 

In general, it is our opinion that to prevent disease in an 
organ the surest method is to use those means through which that 
organ, when diseased, is found to benefit. Of course this is only 
meant as a general statement ; but in the children of those suffer- 
ing from liver complaints such preventive treatment is particularly 
indicated, as these conditions, we have found, are most frequently 
inherited. We have treated cases where three or four genera- 
tions of one family had been sufferers from the same complaint. 

Here, as always, let us follow the wise precept: "Preven- 
tion is better than cure." 



CHAPTER XV. 

ON THE DESTRUCTION OF Toxic PRODUCTS BY THE 

ADRENALS. 

THERE is ample evidence in support of the contention that 
the adrenals play an important part in the destruction of toxic 
products in the body. As long ago as 1853, one of the leading 
authorities on the adrenals as ductless glands, Brown-Sequard, 
noticed that the blood of animals without adrenals was more 
toxic than that of animals the adrenals of which had not been 
removed. 

Langlois and Abelous 1 confirmed the conclusions of Brown- 
Sequard. They also established the fact that the blood and mus- 
cular extracts of frogs whose adrenals had been removed, were 
toxic, and contained a poison of the nature of curare. The 
animals died from auto-intoxication, and 'these savants came to 
the conclusion that the adrenals were created to neutralize or de- 
stroy poisons which are evolved during muscular work. Frogs 
from which the adrenals had been removed showed also lessened 
resistance to muscular fatigue. Similar results have been ob- 
served by Langlois in the case of other animals: rabbits, dogs, 
guinea-pigs, etc. Albanese 2 also found that animals operated 
on as above exhibited more fatigue than those whose adrenals 
had been allowed to remain intact. The recent labors of Sajous 
which have shown conclusively that the adrenals furnish to the 
blood one of its important immunizing constituents explain all 
the above observations. 

The fact, observed by all these authorities, that when one 



1 Abelous et Langlois : Archives de physiologic norm, et path., p. 267, vol. 
iii, 1892, and "Travaux de Laboratoire," Lancet, August 20, 1898; Societe" de 
biologie, 1892. 

2 Albanese: Archiv. Ital. di Biologia, p. 338, 1892. 

(159) 



160 Old Age Deferred. 



of the adrenals is removed the other becomes hypertrophied, 
sometimes to a great extent, seems also to point to the conclu- 
sion that greater demands are made on the gland that remains, 
the hypertrophied condition of which appears to be due to the 
increased work required of it in protecting the body from 
infection. 

That these organs really assist in the defense of the body 
against the attacks of microbes or the introduction into it of 
certain toxic products can be best demonstrated by the fact that 
after such infections the adrenals are, as a rule, altered, showing 
that a pronounced reaction antagonistic to these agencies has 
occurred. 

It has thus been proved by a succession of authors: Char- 
rin, 3 Langlois, Roux, Yersin, Professor Roger, and more recently 
by Oppenheim and Loeper, 4 that in experimental or in sponta- 
neous infectious diseases the adrenals present important altera- 
tions as a result of the reaction against infection. 

Oppenheim and Loeper found that important changes fol- 
lowed upon experimental infectious diseases; for example, after 
infection by the bacilli of diphtheria or anthrax, or by the pneu- 
mococcus; also in such infectious diseases as diphtheria, pneu- 
monia, small-pox, typhoid fever, etc. ; and also after experimental 
poisonings, as with arsenic, phosphorus, or mercury. There 
occurred leucocytic reaction, diffuse diapedesis, or infectious nod- 
dules, and also a congested condition of the adrenals, sometimes 
so marked that haemorrhage took place, with complete destruction 
of the parenchymatous tissue of the glands. 

Very important are the conclusions of Oppenheim, 5 that 
when animals have received poisonous products, together with 
adrenal extracts, after having previously lost these glands by 
operation, such animals show a longer survival, sometimes even 
of indefinite duration, as compared with animals without adrenals 

3Charrin: "Lea defenses naturelles de 1'organisme," Paris, 1898; C. R. 
Soc. de biologie, 1892. 

4 Oppenheim et Loeper: C. R. Soc. de biol., 22 mars, 1901. 

5 Oppenheim: "Les capsules surre"nales, "Thse de Paris, 1902. 



Destruction of Toxic Products by the Adrenals. 161 

to which have been administered the same toxic products, but 
without adrenal extracts. 

With phosphorus and urinary poisons in particular, this 
author has obtained most striking results from the injection into 
animals of adrenal extracts at the same time as the poisonous 
substances. 

Oppenheim comes to the same conclusion as Abelous, Char- 
rin, Langlois and Sajous : that the adrenals play a great role in 
the destruction or neutralization of microbic or other poisons 
introduced into the system. 

We are thus in possession of powerful arguments in support 
of the presumption that the adrenals are antitoxic glands. The 
fact, found by Langlois, that the adrenals contain less adrenalin 
after experimental infectious diseases, and that established by 
Luksch, that after certain experimental infectious diseases such 
as diphtheria, typhoid, or tuberculosis, the extract from the 
adrenals no longer produces an increased blood-pressure, do not 
seem to us sufficient to invalidate our belief in the antitoxic 
properties of these glands ; for here we are witnessing the same 
occurrence as has been previously noted in reference to the thy- 
roid, that the functional hyperactivity of the gland may be 
followed by its exhaustion. 

Moschini, Nicholas, and Bonnamour have also found his- 
tological evidences in the adrenals in infectious diseases indicating 
a hyperactivity of these glands. 

The fact that different toxic products, such as alcohol, can 
produce alterations in the adrenals, indicates also a role of these 
glands in defending the body against toxic doses of this sub- 
stance (see Chapter III). 

It was found by Aubertin 6 and other authors that there is 
a hyperplasia of the adrenals after experimental intoxication of 
the guinea-pig by alcohol. Bernard and Bigart found important 
alterations of the adrenals after experimental poisoning by 



6 Aubertin: C. R. Soc. de biologie, 22 juillet, 1902. 

11 



162 Old Age Deferred. 



mercury, arsenic, lead, etc. As shown by Professor Sajous, 7 
various drugs act on these glands, and he attributes the rise of 
blood-pressure therefrom to the action of such drugs on the 
adrenals, whose function, as is well known, is to raise the blood- 
pressure. We can thus understand how if alcohol be taken in 
large quantities it is able to produce atheroma and arteriosclerosis, 
as are also other toxic bodies, such as nicotine. 

It is well known that arteriosclerosis is frequent in great 
smokers. It has been found by several authorities, among them 
Borylac, that inhalation, or mastication, of tobacco produces 
atheroma, and by Boverie and Loeper 8 that similar changes 
have followed experiments with tobacco or ergotin. Very im- 
portant data have also been established by Drs. Isaac Adler and 
Hensel, of New York, 9 who have found that atheromatous alter- 
ations of the aorta can be produced experimentally by powerful 
doses of nicotine. Such alterations were similar to those effected 
by adrenalin, but were neither so constant, nor so marked. 

These experimental facts, together with observations by 
Dr. Sajous, prove that the atheromatous condition brought about 
after using certain drugs, such as alcohol and tobacco, can be 
ascribed to the adrenals. Josue, in i893, 10 showed that by inject- 
ing adrenal extracts (solution i : 1000) into the veins of a rabbit, 
atheromatous patches of the aorta will appear after five or six 
weeks. The changes described by Adler and Hensel from the 
effects of nicotine confirm the probability that tobacco acts on 
the adrenals first, then, by their medium, on the blood-vessels 
(see, also, Chapter XLIII). 

The above observations show that the same is also probable in 
the case of alcohol, to which we may add a case of Widal and 
Boivin, who found in a young woman dipsomaniac a hyperplasia 
of the adrenals and atheroma of the aorta; and to complete the 
value of these observations we subjoin those of a series of cases 

7 Sajous : Loc. cit. 

8 Socie'te' d' Anatomic, Mai 31, 1907. 

9 Deutsche Med. Wochenschrift 8, 1906. 
IOC. R. Soc. biologic, Nov. 14, 1893. 



Destruction of Toxic Products by the Adrenals. 163 

of atheroma by Joshua, in three of which a hyperplastic condition 
of the adrenals was found. 

It follows logically from the foregoing effects of alcohol and 
tobacco, that we must avoid large quantities of these substances if 
we desire to keep in a normal condition the heart and blood- 
vessels, upon the perfect state of which depends, in a great degree, 
our chances of a long life and extended youthfulness. 

We will deal further with the latter points in the following 
chapter. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

HYGIENE OF THE ADRENALS AND OF THE CIRCULATORY SYS- 
TEM A FEW REMARKS ON THE CAUSE, PREVENTION, 
AND TREATMENT OF ARTERIOSCLEROSIS. 

IN order to obtain the best hygienic condition of the circu- 
latory system, it is indispensable to avoid all that are harmful to 
the adrenals. There can no longer be any doubt that these glands 
exercise a controlling influence on the heart and the whole circu- 
latory system. They are in intimate relation with the principal 
nerves that regulate the heart: the sympathetic and the vagus. 
Thus, for instance, emotions that act on these nerves excite 
through them a hypersecretion of the adrenals and a contraction 
of the small blood-vessels, with a rise in the blood-pressure. By 
the hyperactivity of these glands their secretion, in larger quan- 
tity than usual, is thrown out into the system, producing toxic 
effects which result in an atheromatous condition of the arteries. 
According to our present knowledge, we imagine this athero- 
matosis to be due to the toxic effect of the adrenals quite inde- 
pendently of the increase in the blood-pressure, for it has been 
distinctly shown that even substances which diminish blood- 
pressure, such as amyl nitrite, for example, are also capable of 
producing atheroma. The toxic effects of adrenalin are proved 
by the experiments of Amberg 1 in the laboratories of the Johns 
Hopkins University. 

We must especially insist on the fact that high blood-pres- 
sure is not a condition essential to arteriosclerosis. It has been 
shown by Sawada. 1 * Groedel, 2 and Ferranini, 8 through measuring 

1 Amberg: Archives Internationales de Pharmakodynamie et Therapie, 
1905. 

1 Deutsche Med. Wochenschrift, No. 12, 1907. 

2 Congress ftir Innere Medicin, 1907. 

3 Grom. Int. della Soc. Med., xxvi. 

<164) 



Prevention and Treatment of Arteriosclerosis. 165 

the blood-pressure by Riva-Rocci's instrument, that numerous 
cases of arteriosclerosis can arise without any increase at all in 
the blood-pressure. According to Professor Romberg, 4 there is 
only high blood-pressure in such cases of arteriosclerosis where 
there is a diseased condition of the kidneys. According to this 
leading authority on heart diseases, high blood-pressure is one 
of the earliest symptoms of kidney complication in arterioscle- 
rotic persons. We believe that the high blood-pressure found in 
kidney diseases may be brought into correlation with the previous 
statement, by the fact that in such conditions, and especially in 
sclerosis of the kidneys, the adrenals, if examined, are frequently 
found to be hypertrophied, as was noted by Parkes Weber, 5 
Lemaire, and in four cases of Troin and Rivet. 6 At the last Con- 
gress of German Physicians and Naturalists in Dresden, 1907, it 
was proved by Schur and Wiesel, as also in their previous com- 
munications, that the blood of patients affected with kidney 
diseases contained the characteristic substance that gives the 
adrenalin reaction with perchloride of iron, and produced 
mydriasis if dropped into a frog's eyes. 

It is of singular interest that all those agencies that pro- 
duce a hypersecretion of the adrenals are the same which 
are known to be harmful in causing arteriosclerosis. In the 
front rank of such are tobacco, alcohol, and different kinds of 
poison, such as lead, mercury, etc.; also infectious diseases, 
especially syphilis, the important role performed by which, in the 
production of arteriosclerosis, has been treated of very com- 
petently by Professor Edgreen, 7 of Stockholm, and Darier, of 
Paris. Arteriosclerosis can also be produced very frequently by 
abundant meat food and by strong tea or coffee. There is as 
yet no scientific proof to show that abundant meat food has the 
same deleterious action on the adrenals as upon the thyroid, 



4Lehrbuch der Krankheiten destergens und der oxlutgeftire. Stuttgart, 
1906. 

5 Parkes Weber : Transact. Path. Society, London, Iviii, 3. 

6 Gazette des h6pitaux, Juin 14, 1906. 

7 "Die Arteriosclerose," Leipzig, 1898. 



166 Old Age Deferred. 



ovaries, pituitary body, pancreas, liver, kidneys, etc., upon which 
we have enlarged in previous chapters of this book; and, more- 
over, we have no knowledge of any work written on this subject; 
but as such a diet is very efficacious in producing a sclerotic con- 
dition of the kidneys, it may, for these reasons alone, tend to 
further the development of arteriosclerosis, considering that so 
often in such conditions both kidneys and adrenals are found in a 
hypertrophic condition. This disease may be produced by 
alcohol, tea, and coffee, by causing a great variation in the tone 
of the capillaries. According to Professor Romberg and others, 
it remains to be proved whether they affect the adrenals at all; 
but we have already shown what their action is on the kidneys. 

To keep the adrenals in good condition and thus prevent 
arteriosclerosis, it is necessary to avoid all the above harmful 
agencies. It is true that there are some people who can enjoy 
these things in large quantities with impunity and without in- 
jurious effects until they reach a considerable age; but it is 
different when they all act together. Especially deleterious are 
mental emotions, grief, and sorrow, on which we have dwelt in 
the introduction to this chapter, and on the effects of which we 
have previously remarked; they produce a great variation in 
the tone and calibre of the blood-vessels. We will therefore en- 
deavor to treat of the prevention of a prolonged continuance of 
this most disastrous agency in our chapters on the hygiene of 
the mind. Emotions of a sexual character are, perhaps, more 
than emotions from other sources, disastrous to the heart and 
blood-vessels, as shown by the fact, which may often be observed, 
that persons addicted to sexual excitations frequently die from 
sclerosis of the coronary arteries. That the sexual glands are in 
intimate relations with the heart, which can often be irritated in 
consequence of changes in these glands, especially in women, 
has been already mentioned. 

We should like to add that, as the above agencies are also 
harmful to the thyroid gland, the antagonist of the adrenals, 
its degeneration can further the development of arteriosclerosis 



Prevention and Treatment of Arteriosclerosis. 1G7 

in the same way that Eiselsberg produced an atheromatosis of 
the aorta in dogs after extirpating the thyroid gland. According 
to Minnich, arteriosclerosis is very common in people with goiter, 
appearing in them at a very early age. Fries and Pineles found 
that alterations of the blood-vessels occurred in goats after extir- 
pation of their thyroid gland. 

Since arteriosclerosis is so frequent in old age it must be due 
to the degeneration of the thyroid and also to the aggregation of 
all the above-named harmful agencies during a prolonged period. 
To avoid it, and also premature old age, it is, therefore, most 
essential to guard against all agencies harmful to the thyroid and 
adrenals, to which we have referred above; and this is the best 
basis for the rational treatment of arteriosclerosis. It is most 
fortunate that Dellamare discovered in old age a hypertrophy of 
the adrenals. 8 

All this is greatly strengthened by the recent investigations 
of Sajous, which show that besides its action on the blood-pres- 
sure and the heart, the adrenal secretion actually supplies the 
substance which in the lungs, takes up the oxygen from the air 
to sustain life in all our tissues. It thus becomes evident that 
harm to our adrenals is bound to shorten life. 

To recapitulate : There exist two chief agencies for the pro- 
duction of arteriosclerosis: I. A hyperactivity of the adrenals, 
causing a rise in blood pressure. 2. A degeneration of the 
thyroid gland, which, when normal, antagonizes the first by 
lowering the blood pressure. Although from the above men- 
tioned facts high blood pressure cannot be considered as the chief 
cause of arteriosclerosis, still no doubt it certainly contributes to 
it; for each time that there is a rise in the blood pressure more 
blood is forced through the arteries, thereby causing them to 
dilate ; and after a repeated number of such dilatations the elas- 
ticity of the vessels will eventually be impaired, especially so in the 
aged, where one part of the elastic fibers is already replaced by 

8 "Recherches sur la senescence des glandes surre"nales/' Soc. biologic, 17 
Oct, 1903. 



168 Old Age Deferred. 



connective tissue. As a result of the arteriosclerosis the passage 
of blood through the capillaries will be impeded, and in conse- 
quence the work of the heart will be increased; likewise the 
nutrition of the walls of the vessels will be diminished. The best 
preventatives of arteriosclerosis will therefore be: i. To avoid 
all agencies which may tend to cause excessive activity of the 
adrenals ; and 2. To increase the activity of the thyroid. 

Moderation in food is necessary above all things, for much 
food causes an increase in the abdominal circulation and a larger 
amount of blood to be carried through the vessels; if the food 
consists of much meat, then its viscosity is augmented, as pre- 
viously stated, which indicates that a vegetable diet, with milk, 
and little or no meat, is the best ; but too large quantities of milk 
should not be taken at one time. 

Much bodily and other exercises, in excess, such as too much 
climbing, should be avoided, as they promote arteriosclerosis by 
frequent excitation of the splanchnics and adrenals. As Romberg 
observed, there is sclerosis of the arteries in the extremities of 
persons who do much physical labor, and Remlinger 9 found the 
same in the lower extremities of peasant women who walked a 
great deal. 

Not only by a diet, chiefly vegetarian, is the viscosity of the 
blood diminished and the circulation facilitated as found by 
Determann, but also by means of iodine administered in the 
shape of iodide of potassium or iodide of sodium. This has been 
proved by the experiments of Ottfried, Miiller, and Inada. 10 For 
many years it has been well known that iodine can greatly benefit 
the condition of arteriosclerotic persons. In combination with a 
preparation of iodine, Professor Senator 11 favors the use of 
nitrites, and Professor Huchard also recommends nitroglycerine 
in the intervals between the iodide treatment. Besides inorganic 
iodine, it would appear to us logical to try organic iodine prepara- 



Remlinger: "Dissertation on Arterioscle'rose," Marburg, 1905. 
10 Preface of Romberg: Deutsche Med. Wochenschrift, No. 78, 1904. 
11 "Therapie der Gegenwart," March, 1907. 



Prevention and Treatment of Arteriosclerosis. 169 

tions, such as thyroid extracts, the principal element of which is 
iodine. For the above reasons it is also necessary to take special 
care of the condition of the kidneys, which can be done, as we 
have shown, by hygienic and dietetic measures, already described 
in the special chapters of this work. An improvement in the 
condition of the kidneys, and probably also in the arteriosclerosis, 
may, in our judgment, be obtained by the administration of 
kidney extracts, with which we will deal more fully in the 
chapter on the treatment of old age by organic extracts. 

According to Edgreen, about 25 per cent, of the cases of 
arteriosclerosis is caused by alcohol. It acts by causing a con- 
striction of the small vessels (Traube), just as does adrenalin. 

But much more harmful in the production of arteriosclerosis 
is tobacco. According to Claude Bernard, Huchard, Basch, 
Oser, Isaac Adler, and Hensel, tobacco produces a constriction 
of the small blood-vessels. Thus nicotin, adrenalin and alcohol 
have similar actions, which also corresponds to the observations 
of Sir Lauder Brunton. We have had a great many smokers 
among our arteriosclerotic patients; but, on the other hand, we 
quote further on the cases of some great smokers who lived to a 
very old age as we have seen. But this latter class is not 
numerous. 

Similarly, the hygiene of the intestines is of the utmost 
importance, especially as poisons generated in the intestines 
play a leading part in causing arteriosclerosis, according to 
Huchard, Senator, and others. We must take great care to have 
a daily evacuation of the bowels, and especially to prevent flat- 
ulence, for this distention of the colon or the stomach, by carrying 
the diaphragm upward, may interfere with the expansion of the 
lungs and thus produce a mechanical hindrance to the movements 
of the heart and a free circulation of the blood. Those with a 
tendency to angina pectoris must specially avoid such dangerous 
courses. Hill climbing, during which not infrequently such peo- 
ple suffer sudden death, should also be avoided. More than from 
I to iy 2 liters of liquids per day should not be allowed. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

THE ELIMINATION OF Toxic PRODUCTS THROUGH THE INTES- 
TINES AND THE IMPROVEMENT OF THIS FUNCTION. 

THE intestines contain billions and billions of microbes, their 
number increasing downward throughout the length of the intes- 
tine. The duodenum contains the least, and in some parts of it 
there are none at all. 

The presence of these bacteria is a great necessity to us, 
as without their assistance we could not exist, for they take an 
active part in intestinal digestion and help to form the inter- 
mediate substances, especially from albuminous food and fat, 
for our nutrition. They also assist fermentation and thus induce 
a better peristalsis of the intestines, by which the contents are 
expressed. 

That animals cannot exist without cultures of bacteria in the 
intestines is shown by the experiment of Schottelius, who dem- 
onstrated that young chickens could not thrive on a sterilized 
nutrition, and Nuttall and Thierfelder had great trouble in keep- 
ing their guinea-pigs alive when feeding them for a time on 
sterilized milk. 

All those bacteria which are found in the intestines are, we 
may say, innocuous ; they assist digestion and do no harm. But 
among such are often virulent bacilli against which, under nor- 
mal circumstances, we are well guarded, as the epithelium of the 
intestines is so wonderfully arranged that so long as it is in 
a healthy condition it does not admit the passage of these 
microbes ; but in the aged, or in those exhausted by debauchery 
or previous disease, or when there is an inflamed condition of 
the intestines, stagnation of hard masses of faeces for a very long 
time cause mechanical lesions of the epithelium when, conditions 
(170) 



Elimination of Toxic Products Through Intestines. 171 

now having changed, nothing will prevent these microbes from 
entering the walls of the intestines and either cause disease, like 
typhoid or tuberculosis, or from passing through and entering 
into the blood. 

Besides these dangerous bacteria many other harmful sub- 
stances pass from the stomach down into the intestines, whence 
they are taken up by the portal vein and brought to the liver. 
When the latter is in good condition so much the better for us, 
but when they arrive in too large quantities, or when the liver is 
more or less degenerated, as in old people, drunkards, gourmands, 
etc., then trouble arises. 

When the number of bacteria in the intestines is much 
greater than usual, certain dangers arise from such a condition, 
as thereby the immigration of bacilli into the bile-duct is facili- 
tated causing inflammation of the gall-ducts and gall-bladder, 
and subsequently gall-stone disease. Further consequences of 
such a condition may be the closure of the bile-duct, and then 
no bile can reach the intestines. The presence of bile, however, 
is very important, for, according to current opinion, this exerts 
an influence on the checking of putrefaction in the intes- 
tines. Bile is a natural antiseptic of great efficacy, and has also 
a stimulating effect on the nerves of the intestines, promoting 
their peristaltic movements. 

It would, therefore, greatly interfere with the useful work 
of those organisms normally present if we permitted the forma- 
tion of enormous quantities of bacteria, especially of such as are 
harmful to us; so we must endeavor to eliminate them and not 
give them the opportunity to turn against us, and we must do all 
in our power to keep the peristalsis of the bowels in good working 
order so as to prevent any stagnation of their contents, as such a 
stagnation, in addition to favoring the growth of bacteria, also 
facilitates the development of auto-intoxication. Even if it is 
true that most of the end-products of proteid food in our intes- 
tines, like indol and skatol, are not able to produce severe poison- 
ing if injected into other animals; still there is no -doubt that in 



172 Old Age Deferred. 



medical practice not infrequently cases are observed where the 
retention of all these products together results in very grave 
conditions. Thus Ewald 1 has published the case of a woman 
who, for about a month, retained the contents of the bowels and 
in consequence presented a serious condition of intoxication; 
after eliminating a large quantity of faeces pitch dark she 
recovered and the symptoms of intoxication disappeared. Sena- 
tor also published a very interesting case of auto-intoxication 
with hydrothionuria. 

We often have occasion to note cases of persons having no 
bowel action for two to three days, who then complain of head- 
ache, loss of appetite, and various nervous symptoms, neuras- 
thenia, etc., all of which may, perhaps, be regarded as of reflex 
origin ; but when we see in such people a yellow or yellowish-gray 
complexion which, after a good purge, resumes its clear condition, 
clinically, we regard it as auto-intoxication. 

Even if, as already mentioned, most of the elements of 
albuminous catabolism are not toxic if injected into animals, still, 
occasionally, toxic products can be formed, such as cholin and 
neurin, which come from the former. These elements arise 
from decomposition of the lecithin, which, of our various food- 
stuffs, is contained in the greatest quantity in eggs; and these 
substances can provoke serious nervous symptoms. In such 
cases there is, of course, a stagnation of long duration of the 
bowels, but such a condition as the latter can arise without a 
stricture or obstruction, although these are the most frequent 
causes. Another toxic product is the pepto-toxin of Brieger. 

Stagnation takes place in sluggish bowels. As a general 
rule, faecal movement is caused by peristalsis of the intestines, 
which consists of circular contractions of the bowel by which the 
contents are propelled toward the end of the same ; besides these 
movements there are also pendular or vermicular contractions of 
certain parts of the intestines ; all these movements also assist the 



1 Ewald: "Die Autointoxication," Berl. klin. Wochenschr., No. 7-8, 1900. 



Elimination of Toxic Products Through Intestines. 173 

admixture of the chyme with the juices of the intestines. All these 
contractions are caused by impulses from the nerves which lie in 
the walls of the intestines, the plexus myentericus ; they can also 
be provoked by impulses coming from the central nervous system. 

The nerve ganglia that lie in the walls of the intestines can 
be influenced mechanically by the contents of the intestines, when 
such are bulky, and also when they are fermenting ; therefore, the 
bacteria, by promoting fermentation, also aid in peristalsis. The 
bulky condition of the bowel contents can be best induced by food 
of the vegetable kingdom through its cellulose contents, of which 
tissue the cells of plants or fruits are largely formed. When 
these irritating agents act on the nerve filaments in the intestines, 
the bowel will contract and expel its contents. 

But when food contains no irritating substances and is easily 
assimilated without forming residues, or when the innervation 
by the vagus is sluggish and the peristaltic movements are slow, 
the contents of the intestines can remain longer, especially in the 
haustra of the intestines. It may be that the bowels move every 
day, but that does not prove that everything in the intestines has 
been expelled therefrom, for some amount of faeces can yet re- 
main in the haustra of the intestine even for many days ; so that 
in such cases there is still a constipation of one part of the bowels. 
We have observed, personally, and on patients, that, after 
a good opening of the bowels, when a purge is given for in- 
stance, directly after a meal a short time afterward there has 
been another copious discharge that had evidently remained 
behind. Thus, no doubt a retention of faeces, and sometimes a 
condition analagous to auto-intoxication, can be caused in people 
who have the bowels opened every day, although not to the 
extent of those having obstruction or habitual constipation. 

To avoid such a condition a good purge should be taken 
at regular intervals, say once a week, even by persons who have 
a movement daily, in order to eliminate matter which may have 
remained. It will not be necessary, naturally, to use a too 
powerful purgative, but one adapted to the necessity of the case ; 



174 Old Age Deferred. 



taking, as a rule, such a purge as will act a little better than the 
ordinary bowel movement, and graduated according to the 
strength of the person so using it. 

Before closing this chapter we must also briefly insist upon 
the importance of the fact, that the secretions of the intestine 
and of its glandular annexes have also an anti-bacterial and 
anti-toxic action. Very important is the role of the bile for the 
disinfection of the intestine, as it contains two acids, the glyco- 
cholic and taurocholic, which possess highly anti-fermentative 
properties. As already mentioned, the bile also assists in the 
assimilation of fat, and also exercises a stimulating action on the 
peristalsis of the intestines. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

ON THE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF HABITUAL 
CONSTIPATION. 

WE all know from physiology that the expulsion of fcecal 
matter from the intestines takes place in such a manner that the 
contents therein act as a kind of extraneous body with stimu- 
lating action upon the walls of the intestines and the plexus 
myentericus contained in the same. Consequently there follows 
a contraction of the walls of the intestines, and their contents 
are expelled. All nerves, the plexus myentericus included, are 
under the control of the central nervous system, which creates 
motor impulses through the medium of the pneumogastric 
(vagus), or may cause a check to the peristaltic movements 
through the intervention of the splanchnic nerves. 

Thus, as we see, different agencies influencing the central 
nervous system, like strong emotions, shock, etc., may cause an 
irritation of the pneumogastric, the motor nerve of the intes- 
tines, and thus occasion a movement of the bowels. Different 
toxic products may act also upon the pneumogastric; strong 
motor action of the intestine with diarrhoea may also be caused 
by the abundant secretion of the thyroid gland, as in Graves's 
disease, where an excess of toxic matters of the thyroid gland 
are secreted. 

In the same way we can also produce diarrhoea if we give 
thyroid extracts in too abundant quantity; but giving the same 
in more moderate doses will effect an improvement in the 
peristaltic movements. 

That the thyroid gland has a controlling influence on the 
innervation of the intestine is evident from the fact that, when 
the thyroid is degenerated, the bowels are very sluggish. Under 

(175) 



176 Old Age Deferred. 



such conditions we often find very stubborn constipation; but 
when we administer to such persons thyroid extracts for a given 
time, we note a considerable improvement of the bowels, which 
can even go to the extent, if too excessive doses be given, of 
causing diarrhoea as already mentioned. 

In addition to the thyroid gland, there are other ductless 
glands which seem to influence the peristaltic movements by 
acting on the splanchnic nerves, and these are the sexual glands. 
In women they are frequently altered. Dysmenorrhcea, amen- 
orrhcea, and other troubles are frequent, and constipation is a 
typical symptom of such conditions. This may also serve to 
explain why women are more often constipated than men. 

But the alteration of the sexual glands can also cause con- 
stipation in men, if we may draw the inference from the great 
frequency of constipation in diseases of the prostate gland, which 
to some extent may be in relation with the subject with which 
we are now dealing. 

In order to avoid constipation we must therefore observe a 
careful hygiene of the thyroid, and also of the sexual glands, fol- 
lowing the advice we offer in special Chapters XVIII and 
XLVIII. 

Besides constipation, as above, from the central nervous 
system, the same may be caused through the lack of a stimulation 
which may come from the intestinal contents. As we have 
already seen, the peristaltic movements of the intestine and the 
expulsion of faecal matter take place through the stimulation of 
the nerves in the intestinal walls by the intestinal contents, which 
act either mechanically or by the irritation which their fermenta- 
tion causes. 

To prevent constipation we must take such nourishment as 
will act in a stimulating way, either mechanically, owing to its 
bulk, or by the fermentation it causes. In order to have good 
bowel movements we must create them, and this is best done, not 
by a diet of meat and finely ground cereals, which are absorbed 
with scarcely any residue to effect the purpose, but by one of 



Habitual Constipation. 177 

vegetables and fruit, which contain cellulose in the largest quan- 
tity, this substance forming the framework of the structure in 
which the cells are imbedded; it constitutes the wall of the cells. 
This cellulose provides us with the best residue from food, which, 
if present in large quantities, will exercise a mechanically stim- 
ulating action on the intestinal walls. 

Vegetables are thus a valuable aid in the prevention of con- 
stipation, and of these the following are the best: spinach, 
carrots, green beans, and boiled lettuce, taking into consideration 
their action as laxative food. Cabbage also acts well as a bulky 
food. 

Graham bread and brown bread in general, and in particular 
a special kind, called "cellulose" bread, are also very good agents 
with which to prevent and to treat habitual constipation. Some 
breads, as various kinds made from bran, are so coarse that, to a 
certain extent, they may be considered as setting up a kind of 
internal massage of the intestines. 

Not only vegetables, but fruits, by reason of the fruit sugar 
and acids they contain, may also prove laxative if taken in given 
quantities. Fruits may be taken stewed, as a compote, or baked, 
as for instance, apples; they may also be taken au naturel if 
the condition of the stomach permits. Of compotes the most laxa- 
tive are plums, prunelles (sour figs), and apples; also pineapples, 
cherries, and various berries, all of which may also be partaken 
of in the form of a mush or puree, to great advantage; also 
fruit juices and fruit wines, if free from alcohol. 

Of fresh fruits, grapes and, according to our observation, 
pineapples also undoubtedly have the best laxative quality, as 
also have green figs, which can be taken regularly as a preventive 
against constipation. Figs when dried, especially the so-called 
Olympia figs from Smyrna, or the California variety, are also 
most beneficial, their laxative properties to a certain extent being 
probably due to the seeds which they contain, which serve as a 
means for intestinal massage. 

Orange and grape-fruit, taken on an empty stomach in the 

12 



178 Old Age Deferred. 



morning, may also have a laxative effect, due probably to the 
quantity of fruit acids they contain. 

We sometimes hear patients complain of constipation after 
partaking of milk. According to our experience, this is more 
often the case when boiled milk, heated above 60 C, is taken. 
On the other hand, we believe that when uncooked milk is taken 
it may act as a laxative in many persons, due to the action of 
milk-sugar and acid. Acidulated milk may have this property 
in a greater degree, as also may buttermilk, and especially whey ; 
all of these are, on the whole, good laxatives. 

The diet of those suffering from habitual constipation 
should be as follows: In the morning, on rising, take a glass 
of cold water and an orange. For breakfast, one or two oranges 
or several slices of fresh pineapple, or, in countries where one is 
so fortunate as to obtain such delicious and wholesome fruit, a 
grape-fruit; after that one or two soft boiled eggs, cereals, 
Graham or brown bread, or one of the kinds of coarse breads rich 
in cellulose, and fresh butter thickly spread on the bread (if the 
stomach is good). Then follow with orange marmalade or 
puree of prunes, ending with some grapes. Honey (another 
excellent laxative) may also be added. Two glasses of milk or 
more, for those who can stand it ; in fact, as much as they desire. 
For dinner, the following is recommended: Roast or boiled 
meat, two sorts of green vegetables (by preference spinach), 
French beans, carrots, boiled lettuce, one course of stewed 
compote of fruit, and finish with dessert of grapes, figs (dried or 
green), or preserved plums (California or Bordeaux). For 
drink, mineral waters, such as the various light American kind, 
either mixed with wine or alone. Alkaline waters, such as 
Biliner, Vichy, etc., if taken very cold, may also contribute to the 
laxative action. For supper, something akin to breakfast. As 
we shall point out in the chapter on the hygiene of food, we 
recommend meat only once a day. 

We are confident, from experience gained with our own 
patients, that people who follow such a regimen will have an easy 



Habitual Constipation. 179 

bowel movement daily, and will thus avoid those dangers which 
are connected with the habitual use of laxative drugs. 

For those who, in spite of such a course of diet, have slug- 
gish bowels, we recommend massage and electricity, and also cer- 
tain hydrotherapeutic procedures. The method of carrying out 
such must be obtained from the special hand-books written for 
that purpose; but we would merely mention here that massage 
should preferably be performed by one belonging to the medical 
profession, or, at any rate, by one trained in the Swedish system. 

Electricity may be applied by either galvanic or faradic 
current, both of which give excellent results. 

Hydrotherapeutics must not be overdone or harm may result. 
We find that a compress of lukewarm water (Pressnitz compress) 
worn round the abdomen and back through the night, produces 
good results in many cases, if the diet is, at the same time, 
appropriate. 

For those who only suffer occasionally from constipation, 
as, for instance, after a railway journey, it is an easy and always 
efficacious method (if there is no inveterate constipation) to 
take a suppository of glycerine and introduce it into the rectum. 
After only ten to fifteen minutes interval there may be a copious 
evacuation. 

In persons where the dietetic and above-mentioned mechan- 
ical remedies have not proved effective, irrigation of the rectum 
and intestines should be employed. We would not, however, 
advise the constant use of this method, as torpidity of the in- 
testine might result if practiced daily (see chapter on the hygiene 
of the intestines). 

In cases where there is a more serious degree of constipation 
a little soap, or olive or castor oil, should be added to the water, 
together with a little soda to assist the formation of an emulsion. 

Enemata possess the advantage of having nothing to do 
with the stomach, and thus this important organ can be spared 
much irritation which, unfortunately, cannot be avoided when 
other purging remedies, such as drugs, are given, all of which 



180 Old Age Deferred. 



must pass through the stomach when taken by the mouth. If we 
find it necessary to resort to laxative drugs by the mouth we 
must first try such drugs as are least irritating to the stomach 
and intestines, and foremost among these is rhubarb, which can 
be taken in the form of a compote as well as a drug. To this it is 
well to add magnesia and bicarbonate of soda. We should, if 
possible, administer only the mildest purgatives, and, therefore, 
if rhubarb is not effective, we may give cascara sagrada, or the 
pulp of tamarind, which is, moreover, pleasant to take; but the 
action is not so pronounced as in the case of cascara sagrada 
(rhamnus purshiana). 

Before resorting to drugs, however, we think it would be 
better to try the natural mineral waters, and only when these fail 
should we fall back on drugs. 

There are two kinds of mineral waters, each varying in its 
action: i. The milder acting water, of a laxative nature. 2. 
Stronger water, with drastic action. Of the former we will men- 
tion those which are employed for several weeks continuously 
for a regular cure: Germany: Kissingen; Austria: Carlsbad; 
Marienbad. As the author of this book is himself a practicing 
physician at one of these springs, he thinks it more becoming to 
pass over in silence which of these waters is preferable. Each 
of them, as also many others not mentioned for want of space, 
have their undoubted merits. A teaspoonful of Sprudel salt, 
taken in a glass of lukewarm water in the morning on an empty 
stomach, will give excellent results; but it should not be taken 
every day for any length of time, as otherwise, as with all other 
drugs if taken continuously, it may deaden the excitability of the 
nerves of the intestines, and success depends upon keeping these 
nerves in such a condition that they may respond, upon a light 
stimulation, with a contraction of the intestinal walls and expul- 
sion of the faecal matter. 

Of the strong mineral waters with drastic action, there are 
several excellent springs in America, some of them surpassing 
many of the European mineral waters. In Europe there are in 



Habitual Constipation. 181 

Hungary: Hunyadi-Janos, Ferencz-Jozsefforras, etc.; Spain: 
Rubinat, Villacabra-Loeches, etc. ; and elsewhere a number of 
such springs. As all are natural remedies they should be used 
in preference to drugs when the intestine does not respond to 
mild laxatives and a strong whip is needed. In my opinion they 
are less fitted for every day treatment, though well adapted for 
a thorough cleaning out of the intestine to get rid of stagnant 
matter (see Chapter XIX). 

These strong, drastic, natural waters act by causing a transu- 
dation into the intestine, creating a condition somewhat similar 
to a catarrh, but in a more benign way. 

Briefly, the best and most rational treatment of sluggish 
bowels is by stimulating the intestine by means of an appropriate 
diet which, at the same time, tends to ward off old age. 



CHAPTER XIX. 
HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES. 

As the means by which we are able to keep the intestines 
in good working order are of the same efficacy also for the 
stomach, all that is necessary to mention in this chapter about 
the intestines will apply equally to the hygiene of the stomach. 
The same applies also to the pancreas, so that it is unnecessary 
to treat of its hygiene separately. It is also our intention in this 
book to mention only the hygiene of those organs which are 
able to rid the body of toxic products, as it is mainly by their 
degeneration that premature old age is brought about. 

There is scarcely a serious disorder of the stomach without 
an attendant alteration of the intestinal functions. All the differ- 
ent agencies that are dangerous to the stomach will also prove 
dangerous to the intestines. We have mentioned several of these 
in the chapter on food and the hygiene of eating, where we have 
pointed out that defective mastication is very deleterious. Food 
introduced into the stomach passes into the intestines, and if it 
reaches these insufficiently masticated it will present great diffi- 
culties for the penetration of the intestinal ferments. Not only 
will it not be well digested, but as the different ferments cannot 
well penetrate these compact masses they will putrefy, thus con- 
siderably increasing the natural fermentation, in consequence of 
which a great amount of toxic products and a considerable irri- 
tation of the intestinal mucous membrane will result, which may 
subsequently cause disease. By thoroughly masticating every- 
thing we eat, we are not only safeguarding the condition of the 
stomach, but also that of the intestine. 

The integrity of the functions of the intestines is of supreme 
importance, for it is here that absorption and assimilation of most 
(182) 



Hygiene of the Intestines. 183 

of our food occurs. If our intestines are not in perfect order we 
shall soon waste and dwindle away, even within a short period, 
and sometimes very rapidly. Thus if we wish to retain our 
strength we must treat the intestine with the greatest care. This 
is especially the case in old age, for then an atrophy of the 
glandular mechanism of the digestive tract, stomach, and intes- 
tines, takes place. Thus old people will not be able to assimilate 
nourishment to the same extent as younger ones ; they will lose a 
portion of its nutritive value, and it will become more and more 
difficult for them to completely digest their food. To such peo- 
ple, therefore, it will be necessary to give food in a form that is 
easily absorbed, preferably in liquid form; it would also be 
desirable to give them their albuminous food in a predigested and 
soluble form. In Germany, especially, are used a considerable 
number of so-called "Nahrpraparate," a nutritive preparation 
which contains albumin in the form of albumose, which naturally 
can be assimilated easier ; there are also carbohydrate preparations 
in which the starch is transformed into dextrin or maltose. There 
is a legion of such preparations, but it would lead us too far to 
enlarge on them by a longer description. They are produced 
from proteids, many of them from fish, or from blood, or from 
eggs; also from milk; while others consist of finely ground 
preparations of wheat, oatmeal, barley, rice, arrowroot, sago, 
tapioca, buckwheat, Indian corn, etc. As aged persons have 
greater difficulty in assimilating in their intestines and stomach 
food in its natural state, the use of the best of these predigested 
preparations would certainly be advisable in order to insure a 
healthy condition of the intestines and a prolongation of life. 
The last mentioned carbohydrate preparations possess also the 
great advantage of preventing an excessive putrefaction of the 
intestinal contents with its harmful consequences, which tendency 
is always greater with albuminous food, starchy foods in large 
quantity tending, as already stated, to produce acid fermenta- 
tion in the intestines by which many products of albuminous 
digestion can be destroyed. Against these poisons formed in the 



184 Old Age Deferred. 



intestinal tract we possess a natural defense in certain ductless 
glands, the thyroid and liver, which are degenerated in old 
people ; therefore carbohydrate is the best for them. 

The prevention of intestinal putrefaction is, however, 
equally important in younger people. As Combe proves, we 
can avoid this by the use of certain kinds of food, especially car- 
bohydrates and fruit, and by other substances producing lactic 
acid, which is, indeed, the best disinfectant for the intestines. 
The great benefit of various kinds of sour milk generally has been 
pointed out by Metschnikoff and his disciples. Among the causes 
of old age this savant attributes an important role to the processes 
of putrefaction in the intestines, and to avoid this he recommends 
the use of a certain kind of sour milk produced by fermentation 
by a number of microbes, including the Bulgarian Baccillus maya. 

That certain kinds of food exercise poisonous effects when 
introduced into the intestines is a matter of common observation. 
Thus, in not a few cases, fever, accompanied by cutaneous erup- 
tion, may be witnessed after partaking of strawberries or oysters, 
and especially after eating meats (notably sausages) which are 
in a state of decomposition. Severe cases of poisoning, even re- 
sulting in death, have occurred ; and in Germany there have been, 
from time to time, regular epidemics after partaking of sausages 
in the above condition. 

Of course everyone partaking of such poisonous food will not 
become poisoned as this is prevented by the action of such glands 
as the thyroid and liver, whose function it is to preserve us from 
such effects. People in possession of healthy sensory organs, 
eyes, nose, and tongue, will be enabled to tell whether meat 
is in a fit condition to be eaten or not ; but frequently we cannot 
discover by our senses a state of decomposition when such is 
not in an advanced stage, and if such food is taken regularly 
and in large quantities the great number of microbes we thus 
introduce into the intestines will poison us slowly but surely. 

Such poisonous microbes thrive and multiply very well in 
the alkaline contents of the intestines, but the growth of such 



Hygiene of the Intestines. 185 

dangerous bacteria can be greatly hindered by the introduction 
therein of acid substances, especially lactic acid. It has been 
observed by several authorities, such as Grundzach, 1 Schmitz, 2 
and Singer, 3 that lactic acid decreases intestinal putrefaction, 
and also the conjugated ether sulphates in the urine. 

Professor Metschnikoff, of the Pasteur Institute in Paris, 
deserves great credit for having insisted on the importance of 
introducing certain microbes into the intestines for the purpose 
of transforming the sugar of their carbohydrate contents into 
lactic acid, and thus causing the disinfection of the intestines by 
destroying the noxious germs and hindering their development. 
For this purpose the so-called Bulgarian bacillus can best be 
employed, as it is able to transform the cultures of pathologic 
microbes in the intestines into a beneficient growth that is quite 
harmless. 

This Bulgarian bacillus is well known because of its action in 
producing the sour milk "yoghurt" of the Bulgarian population, 
to the use of which, according to Metschnikoff, is due the very 
large number of centenarians to be found in that country. 

The action of the lactic bacilli has been proved by the experi- 
ments of Dr. Herter, of New York, 4 who discovered that by the 
introduction of large quantities of these bacilli into animals their 
intestinal putrefaction was diminished. 

Dr. Michel Cohendy 5 has performed similar experiments 
on himself. After taking for twenty-five days his usual diet and 
subsequently noting the degree of his intestinal putrefaction, he 
took pure cultures of a lactic bacillus, extracted from "yoghurt." 
For more than two months he continued to take large quantities 
of these bacilli (280 to 350 grammes a day). Not only dur- 
ing the course of the experiment did the urine exhibit evidences 



1 Grundzach: Zeitschrift fiir klin. Medicine, p. 79, 1893. 

2 Schmitz: Zeitschrift fiir Physiologische Chemie, vol. xix, 1897. 

3 Singer: Therapeutische Monatshafte, p. 441, 1901. 

4 Herter: Brit. Med. Jour., p. 1898, Dec. 25, 1897. 

5 Cohendy: C. R. de la Socigte de Biologic, Mars 17, 1906. 



186 Old Age Deferred. 



of a diminution of intestinal putrefaction, but this continued 
for seven weeks afterward, and he arrived at the conclusion that 
the lactic acid fermentation due to this bacillus was able to hinder 
the putrefying action of the microbes developed from the meat 
he had taken during his experiments. He, therefore, comes to 
the conclusion that it is unnecessary to discontinue meat food 
for the suppression of intestinal intoxication if lactic bacilli be 
taken therewith. 

Dr. Pochon, assistant to Professor Combe, of Lausanne, 
continued upon himself the experiments of Dr. Cohendy. For 
several weeks he took sour milk (lait caille) which was prepared 
from cultures of pure lactic microbes, and he found positive proofs 
of the checking of intestinal putrefaction thereby. 6 In those, there- 
fore, who are able to procure and use a pure preparation of lactic 
bacilli, intestinal putrefaction will be greatly diminished. But 
even when we cannot obtain these preparations we can follow a 
diet that will tend to develop lactic acid fermentation. This can 
be brought about by taking carbohydrates in large quantities, espe- 
cially those which are very rich in sugar, at the same time taking 
milk, particularly sour milk. 

It is an absolute fact that in those who are addicted to a 
diet of carbohydrates, intestinal putrefaction is diminished, owing 
to the formation of lactic acid from the fermentation of the milk- 
sugar which is contained in such carbohydrates. 

Intestinal putrefaction is enhanced by the alkaline contents 
of the intestines ; it can, therefore, be checked by various agencies 
that diminish the alkalinity of the intestine, such, for instance, 
as by lactic acid, just referred to. Fatty and acetic acids also 
effect this; likewise fatty food, which promotes the formation of 
fatty acids. Cheese may produce fatty and also lactic acids; 
wherefore it is of value to combat putrefaction in the intestines. 
Of the further benefits of cheese as an article of food, we make 
mention in the chapter on the hygiene of food ; we also state there 



6 Combe: "L'Auto-intoxication intestinale," Paris, 1906. 



Hygiene of the Intestines. 187 

that it is unsuitable in those cases in which the intestines are not 
in thorough order. 

Great care should be exercised in the quality of the food. 
The freshness of various foods is of the greatest importance to the 
intestines, since the main function of the stomach is principally a 
mechanical one, serving to reduce the food into a convenient form 
and carry it to the intestines, ready to be there prepared, through 
the influence of the intestinal juices, into a condition fit for absorp- 
tion and assimilation. During this process the food is being 
reduced to its simpler elements, and the more noxious substances 
are being freed to commence their baneful activity. These sub- 
stances first of all create an inflamed condition of the intestines; 
then, being absorbed into the blood, they cause a general intoxica- 
tion. Fortunately they are not frequently absorbed, and thus their 
injurious effect is limited to the intestine. Among other such in- 
jurious foods we may mention fish and oysters, sausages and meats 
that are in a state of decomposition ; fruit that is unripe or unsound ; 
and canned food in which certain drugs are used as preservatives, 
such being poisonous in varying degree, examples being salicylic 
boracic, and sulphuric acids, etc., and at times even the terrible 
poison, verdigris. Fresh food should always be preferred to 
canned food, or to food preserved in other forms for too long a 
period (see also chapter on the hygiene of food). 

The stomach, and intestines also, can frequently suffer 
damage from ice cold drinks, especially if taken habitually and in 
large quantities. As already mentioned in the chapter on the 
hygiene of the kidneys, we should never forget that every sort of 
food or drink must pass a series of delicate epithelia of our noblest 
organs, which can be injured by sharp and poisonous substances 
with which they come in contact. 

More injurious is the action of various kinds of noxious 
food, especially if putrid, which remain for a long time in the 
intestines, thus creating a chemical laboratory constantly prepar- 
ing poisons. Even the residue of less harmful foods, espe- 
cially albuminous, even if of good quality, when taken into the 



188 Old Age Deferred. 



body, can become deleterious if it remains too long in the intes- 
tines. It will, therefore, be a part of the highest wisdom to 
exercise care in having these highly important organs, on which 
all our nutrition depends, in thoroughly good working order by 
keeping them clean and by removing stagnant material. We have 
already designated the best way to effect this in a previous chap- 
ter, and we desire here to say a few words on the abuse of, and 
great dangers arising from, remedies constantly prescribed for 
constipation. 

We have insisted in the foregoing pages on the necessity of a 
daily bowel movement, and have stated that appropriate food is 
the best way to attain this. Food that leaves no residue, like 
meat or finely ground cereals, is incapable of producing a stool. 
Hence, as Schmidt has pointed out, constipation is often caused 
by the food being too completely absorbed. Strassberger, by 
analyzing and counting the number of bacteria in the stools, 
found that certain cases of constipation were caused by a dimin- 
ished fermentation in the bowels. Lohrisch has found that in 
persons whose intestines possess a marked power for absorption 
there does not remain in them a residue sufficient for the action 
of the bacteria, and thus there will not be a sufficient fermenta- 
tion to act as a stimulant to the intestinal walls to cause them to 
expel their contents. Uncooked cold milk (especially but- 
termilk, whey, sour milk, "yoghurt," kefir, etc.), and dishes con- 
taining vegetables and fruit, grapes, puree of prunes, marmalade 
of oranges, and brown bread ( Graham, Pumpernikel, etc. ) should 
produce a movement of the bowels every day in a normal man or 
woman. There are, however, many exceptions to this, especially 
in the case of women, caused either by previous errors in diet, 
or by negligence in answering at once the demands of the bowels 
for an immediate evacuation, and also, very often, by an abuse 
of purgatives. All this is, of course, aggravated in those in 
whom the innervation of the bowels, which is controlled by the 
splanchnic nerves and the vagus, is altered by the degenerative 



Hygiene of the Intestines. 189 

condition of certain glands which influence these nerves: the 
sexual organs and the thyroid. 

These alterations are far more common in women, as fre- 
quently mentioned before, as their sexual glands and thyroid are 
so often irritated by physiological and pathological processes 
peculiar to her sex, and which so frequently recur during the life 
of a woman. It is a fact that most of the diseases of the female 
sexual mechanism are followed by alterations in the intestines, 
due, in part, to their close proximity to the pelvic organs, but, in 
a greater degree, to the intimate relation of these regions to the 
nerves that control the intestines. The same is true to a lesser 
degree in man, so that after troubles with the prostate, or after 
chronic gonorrhoea, a regulation of the bowels is an important 
matter, constipation being usually very obstinate in such cases. 

In addition to this sluggishness of the bowels in females, 
owing to anatomical and physiological causes, there may be asso- 
ciated faults arising from a bad habit. Instead of paying special 
regard to the innate tendency toward constipation and endeavor- 
ing to have a movement every day, many women, especially 
young girls, neglect this by even resisting the demand of the 
intestine to be evacuated, and deferring this most important 
function to the following day, or even later. Such a course 
necessarily lowers the vitality of the intestinal nerves and mus- 
cles. As soon as such a nervous impulse is felt, we must prouiptly 
act on it; should we not do so a greater nervous and muscular 
effort must follow, and, if even then we neglect to obey the call 
of Nature, after several such useless efforts the nerves and mus- 
cles of the intestines will relax, particularly if such a foolish 
practice be often repeated, for it is quite natural that such an 
intestine will not respond to the stimulation by the pressure of its 
contents upon the nerves, and its muscles will not contract to 
expel the faecal contents, as in normal people. 

Unless, therefore, from force of circumstances, it is impos- 
sible, we must at once respond to the first admonition of the in- 
testines, and not exhaust the vitality of its nerves and muscles 



190 Old Age Deferred. 



by exposing them to unnecessary efforts at our own expense. 
Some people are so impressed with the importance of immedi- 
ately answering such a call that they will forego the most urgent 
business on that account. I know an authentic case of a member 
in the profession a great surgeon who, a few years ago, was 
urgently summoned to a member of the highest nobility who 
had met with a hunting accident. Unfortunately for the patient 
the call came at just such a moment as we have been speaking 
of ; true to his principles, he did not arrive immediately, but only 
after having fulfilled the execution of this important part of the 
hygiene of his intestines, and the patient lost his life. 

Happily such an instance is of the rarest occurrence in our 
profession, for we always ignore our own chance for a long life 
in favor of our patient's, which is fully proved by the fact that, 
of all professions, the physician's life is the shortest. 

Corsets as worn by women contribute to develop in them 
ptosed bowels gastroptosis and enteroptosis which can easily 
arise after pregnancy; the strength of the intestinal muscles 
becomes still more diminished and constipation is the consequence. 

It is not to be wondered at if women, and men also, in cases 
where the diet alone does not bring about an ordinary movement, 
should resort to drugs, several of which we have mentioned pre- 
viously. At first, even the mildest drugs will act; but, un- 
fortunately, after a time the intestine becomes accustomed to 
them and they cease to act. Stronger drugs are then resorted to, 
such as often contain aloes, which, besides injuring the stomach, 
act in a very irritating way on the intestines; these respond by 
a very strong action, causing copious stools accompanied by colicky 
pains. But it is in the nature of things, as we have observed 
holds true in any organ, that overstimulation of any function is 
followed by its exhaustion; thus the nerves and muscles of the 
intestine get over irritated and relax if obliged to overact. After 
a copious evacuation caused by strong drugs we, therefore, find a 
still more obstinate constipation than before. Stronger and 
stronger drugs are then used until there is a complete break- 



Hygiene of the Intestines. 191 

down and ruin of the intestinal innervation and muscular action. 
We must, therefore, commence first with a suitable diet, then use 
mild drugs if necessary, with massage and electricity, as already 
described. 

Intestinal enemata are also beneficial, but if a large amount 
of liquid be used the muscular walls get too greatly dilated and 
may lose their elasticity and vitality, particularly if strong drugs 
be used in such enemas. 

Many women suffer from habitual constipation by reason 
of their drinking but little water, especially if the food they take 
contains little fluid; the faecal masses become solid and coagu- 
lated, and thus their passage in the intestine toward the anal 
exit becomes more difficult, whereas by a sufficient quantity of 
liquid, such as water, this movement will be much facilitated ; and 
that this is an important consideration is quite evident in the case 
of women who have a tendency to lethargic bowels. Such a 
thickening of the faecal masses occurs particularly in certain 
parts of the intestines, such as the caecum, the ascending colon, 
and the sigmoid flexure. In these parts the faecal matters 
often become detached, accumulate, and easily get condensed. 
They may remain there sometimes for longer periods, which can 
easily be proved by experiments, giving bismuth by mouth and 
then examining the abdomen by means of the Roentgen rays. 

It thus happens that people, under the impression that a 
good daily stool has produced a clean bowel, still have a residue, 
and this can instantly be seen by removing the same by purging 
drugs. We, therefore, recommend the weekly use of a reliable 
purgative, such as bitter water, thus cleaning the bowels of all 
residue, which frequently remains in deep haustra of the intes- 
tines, as in Barlow's disease. 

The stagnation of faeces around the caecum may also facili- 
tate the development of appendicitis, this being frequently due to 
neglect of the hygiene of the intestines. It is also one of the 
commonest diseases, as we will show in the succeeding chapter. 



CHAPTER XX. 

HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES A FEW REMARKS ON THE 
CAUSE AND PREVENTION OF APPENDICITIS. 

APPENDICITIS, in these days, is one of the most frequent 
causes of an unexpected death. As this work is designed to set 
forth the means by which we may prolong life, it is desirable not 
to miss the opportunity of offering a few remarks, in connection 
with the chapters on the preservation of the intestinal functions, 
upon the cause and prevention of an intestinal disease by which 
particularly young and promising lives are frequently cut off. 

In the previous chapters we saw that the caecum was one 
of the places of selection for the stagnation of the faecal contents 
in the intestinal canal. As the pressure of such faecal matter in 
the caecum and colon is greatest toward the appendix the contents 
may go more easily into than away from the appendix, and par- 
ticularly so when, from a long rest in the caecum, they are thick- 
ened. The return of faecal matter from the appendix is often 
hindered by a spindle-shaped thickening at the junction of the 
appendix with the caecum, which presents the appearance of a 
narrow bridge. 

This thickening of the mouth of the appendix is the conse- 
quence of the very close contact of the psoas muscle, upon which, 
in many people, the appendix lies, so to speak resting upon it. 
This has been shown by Offerhaus 1 (a surgeon in the Hague Hos- 
pital) to be the case in 62 per cent, of normal men. 

In certain movements, such as running or cycling, the psoas 
is continually pressing against the appendix, and it is natural 
that such continuous pressure against this organ will in time 
leave a permanent mark, which is, indeed, seen in many cases of 

i Offerhaus : Proefschrift, "Eine mechanisclie oorzaak voorhet ontstaan 
van Appendicitis," Leiden, 1901. 

(192) 



Prevention of Appendicitis. 193 

appendicitis. After a certain time a circumscribed segmentation 
will be visible on the parts of the appendix which are in contact 
with the psoas, and later this becomes so marked that a circular 
kinking results, establishing the narrow bridge to which we have 
already referred. 

It is logical that the thicker the appendix, the more pro- 
nounced will be the marks produced by the pressure of the psoas. 
The average size of the appendix, even in the adult, is that 
of a somewhat slender worm, from which is derived the name 
"vermiform appendix/' But when there is stagnation of the 
faecal contents in the appendix, and especially when the thickened 
faecal matters are of such hard consistency that a hard stony 
concrement, such as the coprolith is formed, then the appendix 
sometimes assumes quite a comparatively large size. We saw 
the case of a girl of 16, operated on by Dr. Offerhaus at the 
Hague (details of which case were published by him), in whom 
the appendix was of the size, in circumference, of a large thumb. 

In such large appendices the marks of the psoas will, of 
course, be more pronounced, and frequently the narrow bridge 
referred to will develop. This is caused by the appendix being 
further attached to the intestines where, owing to the narrow 
connecting bridge, it is unable to evacuate itself, and so grows 
larger and larger, the mischief thus constantly increasing. 

It is also evident that the nutrition of an organ whose blood- 
supply is mechanically interfered with, as in the case of the 
appendix by its close contact with the psoas, as described above, 
must necessarily be a precarious one ; and it is a pathological fact 
that an organ which is badly supplied with blood is also more 
liable to disease, because the insufficient supply of blood 
causes a diminution in the number of phagocytes thereby 
weakening the defense of the organ against infection, as ex- 
plained in Chapters III and X. Consequently the mi- 
crobes easily prevail, particularly in a portion of the body 
like the intestines, where they normally exist in such great 
numbers. 

18 



194 Old Age Deferred. 



By the foregoing we have not only shown the cause, but 
also the principles for a rational prevention, of appendicitis. As 
we have seen, the starting point of all mischief is the close prox- 
imity of the psoas to the appendix, and the occasional cause is 
constipation, with stagnation of the faecal contents. The best 
preventive against appendicitis consists in avoiding both causes, 
which, however, is only possible in the latter case by adopting 
all those measures we have mentioned in the chapter on the 
treatment of constipation. 

The first cause, the close contact of the psoas with the appen- 
dix, can certainly not be prevented; but what we can do is to 
avoid all movements by which the psoas is unduly pressed against 
the appendix. This can be done by avoiding those exercises in 
which the psoas is brought into frequent contraction and then 
pressed forcibly against the appendix: for instance, running, 
cycling, etc. The young lady, already referred to, with the large 
stone in the appendix, indulged freely in such sports. The habit 
of sitting with one leg crossed over the other should also be 
avoided. 

We must now, however, determine who those persons are 
in whom such a condition exists. They are those who frequently 
complain of pains in the appendicular region, usually after quick 
walking or running, and especially after cycling, and at times 
even without these ; but in this latter class the plain is milder. In 
order to make an exact diagnosis whether such pains are caused 
by pressure of the psoas upon the appendix, we must tell the 
patient to lift the right leg high and we then press with the right 
hand against the thigh. If there is a latent form of appendicitis 
due to the above-named anatomical relations, then the patient will 
experience pain when we press with the left hand upon Mc- 
Burney's point. By this means appendicitis can be diagnosed 
while it is still in an early stage, and the life of many may be 
saved before it is too late, and we know only too well how 
rapidly this treacherous disease can lead to a premature death. 

Having made the diagnosis in the above mentioned way, 



Prevention of Appendicitis. 195 

we should prohibit all active movements, especially running, 
cycling, etc., and take special care to have a daily bowel movement 
by the use of a suitable diet and those other means previously 
mentioned. 

Pain in the appendicular region may be of a very pro- 
nounced character, and yet there may be no appendicitis, for it 
may be caused by inspissated faeces. The presence of stagnating 
faecal matter often induces the formation of gas, and by the dis- 
tention so caused the intestinal nerves are irritated and thus pain 
occasioned. 

We can distinguish between appendicitis and pains follow- 
ing colics, caused by flatulency, by giving carminatives, such as 
the decoction of different carminative herbs called Aqua Carmin- 
ativa Regia, which is much used in Germany and Austria, where 
it is an official preparation of the Pharmacopoeia Austrica and 
Germanica. A few tablespoonfuls of this decoction will produce 
free passage of gas, after which, in the case of flatulent colic, the 
pain will disappear, especially if we add a purgative and clear the 
intestines. Of course, in appendicitis the pain will not disappear 
after the use of carminatives. 

Besides the foregoing very frequent causes of appendicitis 
there are a few others to deal with, all of which here is out of 
the question ; our intention is to confine ourselves to mentioning 
some of the more frequent causes and not to deal exhaustively 
with the subject, which can be found in the various hand-books 
on surgery. Yet we should like to mention one cause that is not 
infrequent, and this deals with the relation between the tonsils and 
the appendix. If we examine these organs histologically, we 
shall find that both are of the same lymphoid tissue, and, indeed, 
some writers go so far as to term the appendix the tonsil of the 
intestine. 

Now we can often observe that when one of the lymphoid 
structures is changed, the others may follow; and this shows 
that just as the ductless glands are in close relation to one 
another, so also the ductless glands and the lymphoid structures 



196 Old Age Deferred. 



stand in close mutual connection, as we have mentioned in 
previous works, emphasizing the fact that the tonsils are often 
much enlarged in myxcedema, Graves's disease, acromegaly, 
diabetes, etc. 

In addition to these intimate relations there are also other 
causes arising from the tonsils that affect the appendix. Such is 
the case when the tonsils are inflamed and infectious matter aris- 
ing therefrom reaches the intestines. The cause of appendicitis 
from such a source has been confirmed by the bacteriological ex- 
aminations of Professors Lanz and Tavel. Indeed, clinically, we 
can often see that appendicitis has been, in quite a number of 
cases, the result of previous tonsillitis, this in turn often being 
caused by the secretion from the inflamed posterior part of the 
nose coming in contact with the tonsils, as has been previously 
stated. 

Very frequently such a condition exists in conjunction with 
adenoid vegetations, and this explains the error into which Del- 
cour has fallen in his book on the relation of adenoid vegetations 
to appendicitis, in which he attributes the immediate cause of the 
latter to a state induced by an insufficiency of the thyroid gland. 
'We can often observe that adenoid vegetations can exist with a 
good thyroid and vice versa, although we cannot deny the fact 
that in children with thyroid insufficiency adenoid vegetations 
are frequent. 

It is very probable that the first mentioned causes of appen- 
dicitis and the last named often go together, the one assisting 
and developing the other. The unfavorable anatomical position 
and constipation, together, offer a very favorable soil in which, 
through bacterial co-operation after tonsillitis, influenza, or other 
infectious diseases, this much dreaded disease can develop. 

By a slight operation life is often saved. The pity is that 
such aid is often invoked too late. 



CHAPTER XXI. 

ON THE ELIMINATION OF Toxic PRODUCTS THROUGH 
THE KIDNEYS. 

IN the course of this work we have frequently insisted on 
the fact that we are being continually poisoned during the proc- 
esses of life, either by poisons coming from without into our body 
through food or drink, or by toxic substances being formed in 
our body through defective metabolism. We have a series of 
glands with internal secretions which have properties antagonistic 
to these poisons, the most important of such glands being the 
thyroid, parathyroid glands, adrenals and the liver, which act by 
destroying these injurious products. 

The following can now happen : Either these toxic products 
may be produced in such enormous quantities that even the in- 
creased functions of these glands will be insufficient to overcome 
them, or the glands may not be in a condition of complete in- 
tegrity. In either of these cases the bulk of these poisons will be 
carried to the eliminating organs to be dealt with, viz. : the skin, 
the intestines, and the kidneys. 

As we shall see, the skin alone is not able to eliminate more 
than a certain portion of these products, even by the additional 
assistance of perspiration. In addition to the skin the intestines 
may also assist the work of the kidneys, by expelling principally 
the poisons from the digestive organs. But only a small portion 
of the poison circulating in the blood will be eliminated in this 
way, especially if there is a lazy action of these organs. Thus 
the great bulk of all these products is carried to the kidneys, 
which are, indeed, our most important organs for the elimina- 
tion of toxic products from the blood. 

It is furthermore important to consider the kidneys because 
they are also glands with internal secretion. This is evident from 

(197) 



198 Old Age Deferred. 



the fact that uraemia is a condition which is dependent upon the 
absence of such a secretion. 1 It is not caused only by the reten- 
tion of urine and the urea contained therein, for cases have been 
noted where there has been no urine for as long a time as seven 
days, and yet there was no uraemia, whereas uraemia rapidly de- 
velops at times in spite of an abundant flow of urine and elimina- 
tion of urea. Thus, logically, uraemia must be ascribed to 
another factor, which can only be the absence of an internal 
secretion from the kidneys, which may otherwise perfectly per- 
form their work. Another convincing proof of this statement is 
the fact that we are able to treat with great effect, as we have 
personally observed, diseased kidneys with extracts from the 
kidneys of pigs. We will demonstrate the action of this in a 
separate chapter. 

That the kidneys are glands with internal secretion has 
been proved already by Brown-Sequard, 2 Meyer, 3 and other 
authors, among whom we will mention as two of the last authori- 
ties on this question, Professor Senator and Professor Hermann 
Strauss. 

The kidneys, being glands with internal secretion, must 
then stand in close relation to the other ductless glands, accord- 
ing to the law established by us in our previous works. As 
already mentioned, we have shown in a communication to the 
Paris Biological Society, February 25, 1907, that these glands 
have an intimate relation to the thyroid gland, and vice versa. 
Thus, alterations of the thyroid always produce changes in 
the condition of the kidneys. These alterations in the kidneys 
may, however, not necessarily be based on the intimate relations 
between thyroid and kidneys as ductless glands, but may be pro- 
duced by the fact that, when the thyroid is degenerated and 
cannot destroy toxic products, these poisonous matters will be 
thrown on the kidneys (the skin and intestines not being of 



1 Senator : Loc. tit., and others. 

2 Brown-S6quard : Archives de physiologie norm, et path., p. 778, 1893. 

3 Meyer: Ibid., p. 179, 1894. 



Toxic Products and the Kidneys. 199 

assistance under such conditions) and eliminated by them. 
Naturally the passage of such poisonous products through the 
kidneys is liable to produce changes in them, and albuminuria 
and hyaline or granular casts may show themselves in con- 
sequence. 

The same may also happen after changes in the liver. 
When this important organ is not able to destroy poisons they 
are carried in increased quantities to the kidneys, whence their 
passage will produce albuminuria and hyaline and granular casts, 
as has been especially described by such French authorities as 
Huchard, Teissier of Lyons, Moliere and Gouget, etc., as occur- 
ring in diseases of both liver and gall-ducts. 

The appearance of albuminuria, and even of hyaline casts, 
must be taken as a proof of an abnormal condition of the kid- 
neys, and this notwithstanding numerous authorities who are 
inclined to regard such an occurrence in a more lenient way. 
We hold, with Professor Senator, that the permanent presence 
of such elements in the urine is the proof of the fact that the kid- 
neys are not in a normal condition. Even the orthostatic album- 
inuria of quite healthy persons, which, as its name implies, only 
occurs when such persons have been standing for a time in an 
upright position, has been considered by Senator as an expression 
of the existence of certain changes in the kidneys. According to 
Senator, the hyaline casts also are not such an innocuous 
symptom as certain authorities claim, but they are formed from 
the degeneration of the convoluted tubules. This is the most im- 
portant element of the kidneys, for the greater part of the solids 
and toxins are excreted by its cells from the blood, and besides 
this function these epithelial cells also have an internal secretion. 
The appearance, therefore, of hyaline casts (which, as Senator 
found, could be proved under the microscope as having been 
formed through degeneration of the epithelial cells) must be 
considered as evidence of the loss of the secreting portion of the 
kidneys and of the destruction of their most important elements, 
and can be found regularly in all the toxic processes that take 



200 Old Age Deferred. 



place in the body, showing that the poisonous products of these 
processes have passed through the kidneys and been eliminated. 

Thus we find albuminuria and casts, and even signs of a 
serious inflammation of the kidneys, in different infectious dis- 
eases, and even after tonsillitis ; also after other toxic conditions 
caused by the secretion of toxic products in the body from certain 
ductless glands, such as the sexual glands during puberty and the 
thyroid gland in Graves' s disease. Likewise in certain diseases 
where waste products of metabolism cause uric acid to be formed 
in large quantities, as also in diabetes, where a quantity of other 
toxic products, besides uric acid, are produced. 

From the foregoing it is only natural to expect that dif- 
ferent toxic products which are introduced into the organism 
from without, either in the food or in the drink, or which result 
from the decomposition of meat and alcohol and other stimulants, 
will also, for the most part, be eliminated by the kidneys, espe- 
cially with a dilatory performance of the other disintoxicating 
organs. When passing in large quantities, or sometimes even 
in smaller numbers, they may be able to irritate the fine epi- 
thelia of the tabula epithelia and also those of the glomeruli, 
and produce casts (hyaline ones especially) and albuminuria. 
After large quantities of alcohol such a condition can even become 
permanent if the other toxin-secreting organs are sluggish. 

In his experiments on animals Penzoldt has produced albu- 
minuria by means of English mustard, pepper, and particularly 
radishes, and still more so after black tea. Gunzburg noted this 
also in a boy of 13, and Roth in a child of 3^2, in both cases after 
the use of black tea. 

Albuminuria and casts can frequently be observed after the 
administration of drugs in degrees varying according to the 
toxicity of the drugs. We have published a case in which even 
epithelial cells of the kidneys, single and in casts, as well as 
blood-casts in quantities, have been found after an administration 
of chloride of potassium. Luttje found casts in 33 cases out of 
207, and in 92 of these albuminuria, after the administration of 



Toxic Products and the Kidneys. 201 

salicylates, and he issues a warning against their continual usage. 
That the same occurrence has also been observed after the use 
of other poisonous drugs such as mercury, chloroform, etc., will 
only appear to us as natural. 

The skin and intestines, which co-operate continually with 
the kidneys, are able to do a part of the work of the latter by 
eliminating poisons which otherwise would have been carried to 
the kidneys, injuring the delicate structures by which they are 
secreted and through which they pass. As will be found in the 
chapter on the functions of the skin, this tissue is able to eliminate 
(especially when its functions are increased, as in cases of perspi- 
ration) a part of the harmful products, among them being some of 
the nitrogenous end-products of metabolism, and also common 
salt. But when the skin is unclean and its pores are clogged by 
dirt and the products of perspiration, and when it is diseased, as 
in skin diseases, or when it is burnt extensively and the sudorific 
glands destroyed, then these poisonous products are directed to 
the kidneys, whose secreting structure will naturally be injured by 
their passage. 

The same may also happen after an obstruction or hindrance 
to the intestinal functions. When the passage of faecal matter is 
retarded for a long time, a re-absorption of toxic matters can 
take place by the blood, necessitating their elimination by the 
kidneys, with harmful consequences to these important organs. 
This has been proved by experiments made by Wallerstein, who 
mechanically closed the anus of rabbits and dogs. After but 
twenty-four hours he found albuminuria and different kinds of 
casts in the rabbits', and casts only in the dogs' urine. It is very 
important evidence in favor of our supposition that the convo- 
luted tubules of the kidneys play the most important part in the 
excretion of harmful products from the blood, that Wallerstein 
found, after four days, that the greatest change had occurred in 
the convoluted tubules of the kidneys in these animals. The 
epithelial cells of these tubules were greatly degenerated and in a 
state of coagulation necrosis. 



202 Old Age Deferred. 



Similarly English 4 has found albuminuria and casts in cases 
of strangulated hernia in men, in consequence of the stagna- 
tion of the contents of the intestines and the re-absorption 
of toxic matters. Similar results may also occur according to 
Leichtenstein, Senator, Jafre, etc., in cases of intussusception, 
incarceration, and similar pathological conditions. 

Thus we can all easily understand how the stagnation of 
the intestinal contents, as, for instance, in chronic habitual con- 
stipation, may also be injurious to the kidneys; and, indeed, 
Kobler and Huler have described albuminuria as a consequence 
of constipation. Not only is the elimination of excrementitious 
substances checked, but there is reabsorption of poisonous prod- 
ucts from the intestinal contents which the kidneys must excrete. 

That poisonous products coming from the intestinal tube 
are apt to produce even serious changes in the kidneys has been 
proved by Heller and Fishel after catarrhs of the stomach and 
intestines. At the same time we will also mention that in cases 
of intestinal autointoxication we can also observe a diminution 
in the quantity of urine, as noted by several authors, of whom 
we specially mention Boas and Hemmeter. 5 

From the foregoing there can be no doubt that most of the 
toxic products in the blood are eliminated by the kidneys. This 
is also the manner in which the nitrogenous end-products of 
metabolism leave the body. The kidneys act as a kind of 
filter for these products. When the kidneys, however, are 
changed or degenerated by the formation of connective tissue 
and loss of the elements of excretion, as in old age, then these 
products will be retained in a greater or smaller number, and 
a condition of autointoxication follows, to which we have pre- 
viously ascribed a great role in the pathology of old age. Log- 
ically, if we wish to prevent old age coming on too soon, or a 
diminution of our chances for a long life, we must do our best 
to prevent such a diseased condition. 



4 Oesterr. Med. Jahrbuch, No. 2, 1884. 
6 Hemmeter : Loc. cit. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

HYGIENE OF THE KIDNEYS, AND THE PREVENTION OF 
RENAL DISEASE. 

THE most rational hygiene of the kidneys for the preven- 
tion of kidney diseases consists in the avoidance of all those 
causes which are injurious to the kidneys, and which we have 
mentioned in the previous chapter. A great part of the poi- 
sonous products that are eliminated by the kidneys are intro- 
duced with the food and beverages, and it is important for 
us to bear in mind the fact that what we eat or drink must pass 
through our kidneys, and that the structure of these organs is 
delicate; that the most important secreting parts are composed 
of fine epithelium which can easily be desquamated by the pas- 
sage of irritating products. Thus we note the appearance of 
hyaline casts after different kinds of spices and stimulating 
liquors, especially if taken in large quantities. 

There are many members of the profession who attach no 
importance to the occasional appearance of a hyaline cast. But, 
considering the finding of Professor Senator 1 that such casts 
are formed by degeneration of the tubular epithelium, we can- 
not take such a lenient view ; for even if we find only one cast 
in two or three microscopic specimens, we must realize how 
many thousands of these there may be in a liter of urine. Thus 
every day thousands of these casts, and in a year enormous quanti- 
ties, may be lost. But as each cast means the loss of important 
secreting elements, there can be no doubt that, after a certain 
time, we shall have lost an important part of these most impor- 
tant organs, whose place is taken by connective tissue. Thus 
the development of interstitial nephritis can be hastened by 



Senator : LOG. cit. 

(203) 



204 Old Age Deferred. 



faults in our alimentary regime. In cases where meat is taken 
abundantly it is most probable that the continual excretion from 
the blood of nitrogenous end-products of metabolism means a 
serious overwork for the kidneys and grave damage to their 
epithelium. And still more so if, owing to a diminished activity 
of the liver due to senile degeneration, toxic products of a higher 
toxicity than urea, and even uric acid, are passed. 

We have observed the great frequency of albuminuria and 
casts in the urine of persons who were addicted for many years 
to a plentiful meat diet. According to Dr. James Tyson, 2 who has 
been for many years making accurate observations on diseases 
of the kidneys, and who has published a standard work on them, 
interstitial nephritis can be produced after the prolonged inges- 
tion of much meat. If we wish to keep our kidneys in the best 
condition, a lacto-vegetarian diet with only little meat, once a 
day, is the most suitable. Still more than meat, bouillon and 
meat gravies should be avoided, since they contain irritating 
meat extracts. 

Milk diet in abundance is not only indicated in liver dis- 
ease, but also in chronic kidney troubles. But when there are 
coexisting changes in the circulatory system, milk should not 
be given in large quantities, but in smaller amounts. Milk has 
also the great advantage of being a strongly diuretic substance, 
especially in its acidulated forms (yogurth or kefyr, or simple 
sour milk) ; and at the same time it irritates the kidneys very 
little, since it contains only a minute amount of common salt. 

According to Bunge, we take decidedly too much salt every 
day, and in this way we injure our kidneys considerably. 
Achard, 3 Strauss, 4 Vidal and Javal, 5 and simultaneously H. 
Strauss, have found that diseased kidneys (especially in acute 
or chronic parenchymatous inflammations) are unable to elimi- 



2 Tyson: A treatise on "Bright's Disease and Diabetes," second edition, 
London, 1904. 

3 Achard : Presse meU, 1901. 

4 Strauss : "Die chronischen nierenentzundungen," Berlin, 1902. 

5 Vidal et Javal: Soc. M6d. des HOpitaux, Juil. 31, 1903. 



Prevention of Renal Disease. 205 

nate sodium chloride properly, and its retention leads to 
oedema. According to these authorities, cedema is caused by a 
retention of water and sodium chloride, the retention of the 
latter playing the primary role, whereas according to Alexander 
Koranyi, Richter, Kovesi, and Roth-Schulz, the retention of the 
water is the primary factor. 

For these reasons salt should only be taken in very small 
quantities. Alcohol should also be avoided, except in small 
quantities, as being very injurious to the kidneys; and consid- 
ering that chronic nephritis may be caused by the immoderate 
use of alcohol, Bunge thinks that the chronic nephritis following 
large quantities of alcohol may be attributed to the fact that, 
according to the researches of Keller, 6 made in Bunge's labora- 
tory, the alcohol habit leads to an immoderate use of salt with 
its deleterious effects upon the kidneys. 

According to Bunge, rice gives very little work to the kid- 
neys, as in twenty-four hours only 2 grammes of alkaline salts 
are eliminated. On the other hand, potatoes cause a very great 
elimination of salt by the kidneys. Bunge thinks that rice would 
be a good food for patients with renal disease. 

Not only alcohol, but other stimulants, like tea, can be of 
harm to the kidneys if taken in large quantities, as we have 
mentioned in the preceding chapter when speaking of black tea. 

We do not think, however, that the daily use of black tea, 
in moderate quantities, would have unfavorable effects on the 
kidneys. Its relation to the production of uric acid should, how- 
ever, be remembered (see chapter on other stimulants: coffee, 
tea, tobacco, etc.). 

For reasons already mentioned, irritating spices and adul- 
terated sauces should be very carefully avoided; also all kinds 
of food which contain pungent ingredients. We have no doubt 
that by their use life is often shortened. The passage of such 
poisonous substances for years through our kidneys must injure 



6 Keller: Zeitschrift fur Physiol. Cheiuie, vol. xiii, p. 130 and 134, 1889. 



Old Age Deferred. 



their delicate structure and hasten the development of the senile 
kidneys, with interstitial nephritis. 

It is advisable to drink plenty of water, especially when 
much meat, or the above-mentioned sauces, are eaten. By this 
means we can flush out of our kidneys the end-products of 
proteid food, and also other toxic substances. For the same 
reason it is well to use certain mineral waters with diuretic 
properties. They should, however, not be taken at the same 
moment as substances irritating to the kidneys are taken, or the 
kidneys may be so injured that acute hsemorrhagic nephritis may 
ensue. We 7 have published such a case, where even small quan- 
tities of chloride of potassium taken on an empty stomach, 
together with Wildungen waters, which have very diuretic 
properties, provoked a condition of acute nephritis, with great 
quantities of blood clots, epithelial and granular casts, many 
epithelial cells, and red and white blood-corpuscles in the urine. 
When taking various drugs, we must always remember 
that they must pass through our kidneys. The drug habit, 
especially when irritating drugs are taken, can have a ruinous 
effect on these vital organs and surely diminish our prospects 
for a long life. Day by day many of the epithelial cells will be 
desquamated, slowly but surely, and inflammatory conditions of 
the kidneys will eventually appear. There is nothing in this world 
without a cause, and if a chronic parenchymatous or inter- 
stitial nephritis suddenly appear, it must have a pre-existing 
cause. It is the result of our continual neglect and abuse of these 
most important organs. As Prof. Friedlich Miiller said a few 
years ago, the kidneys never forget the wrong they once have 
suffered. Indeed, most of the evil that befalls us in this world 
is our own fault, for doing things we should not do and omitting 
those we should. 

A frequent source of renal diseases is infectious diseases 
with the passage of toxic products through the kidneys. This 
source of kidney disease is often overlooked, the symptoms of 
7 Journal m6d. de Bruxelles, 1903. 



Prevention of Renal Disease. 



acute nephritis being mistaken for or confused with those of 
the infectious disease. Acute nephritis after tonsillitis is often 
not diagnosed unless the symptoms are very marked. In such 
cases occasional casts and epithelial cells, with red and white 
blood-corpuscles, may remain for a long time in the urine, some- 
times permanently, and thus slowly and insidiously chronic neph- 
ritis develops. 

Tonsillitis is often caused by the dropping upon the tonsils 
of mucous secretion from a post-nasal catarrh. This is com- 
monly so in chronic rhinitis caused by adenoid vegetations. The 
best prevention of renal diseases in these cases is operation on 
the vegetations and treatment of the rhinitis, rather than removal 
of the tonsils, which probably play a great role in the defense 
of the organism against infections. This is shown by the fact 
that they are inflamed in the early stages of many infectious 
diseases. 

The greatest care must be given to the condition of the 
skin and intestines, if we wish to keep our kidneys in good order 
and prevent their deterioration. We must try to eliminate 
through the skin and intestines as many as possible of the toxic 
substances which otherwise would make their way to the kid- 
neys an'd increase their work, and perhaps injure their epithe- 
lium. In this way we can save our kidneys for their time of need. 

Therefore, the skin and intestines should be kept in good 
working order. We must do all we can to maintain the func- 
tion of the skin, and in several chapters of this book we have 
considered this question. We will only mention briefly that 
the invisible perspiration of the skin should be encouraged as 
much as possible. Damp and cold weather are apt to suppress it. 
In such weather our skin also gives off too much warmth, there- 
fore we should be warmly clad, wool, especially for old persons, 
being best. Still more important is this when the kidneys are 
already damaged. For such persons a warm climate is advisable. 
By increasing the perspiration to sweating, products which are 
harmful to the kidneys may be eliminated. Hence such pro- 



208 Old Age Deferred. 



cedures will take work off the kidneys and rid them of injurious 
substances. The sweating should be done frequently, at least 
once a week, if we want to keep our kidneys in good condition. 
For fuller particulars on the hygiene of the skin, and also of 
the intestines, we refer to the chapters relative to these questions. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

ON THE ELIMINATION OF Toxic PRODUCTS THROUGH 
THE SKIN. 

THERE are some two and a half million small glandular 
formations the sudorific glands on the whole surface of 
the body in the subcutaneous tissue of the skin, from which 
issues a secretory tube somewhat of the nature of a corkscrew 
to the external surface of the skin. 

These glands are richly provided with blood-vessels, and 
a comparison may be drawn, to a certain extent, between the 
glomerules of the kidneys and these small glandular formations. 
The first receive certain substances from the blood and give it 
off through the tubules which carry away the urine, and the 
latter take both fluid and solid substances from the blood and 
eliminate it in the form of sweat through the excreting chan- 
nels of the sudorific glands. 

Gas can also be eliminated through the skin carbonic acid 
though in infinitely smaller quantity than by the lungs, for 
while the latter eliminate from 800 to 1200 grammes of carbonic 
acid, it has been shown by the experiments of Aubert 1 that a 
human being eliminates through the skin a maximum of 6.3 
grammes and a minimum of 2.3 grammes in twenty-four hours, 
which is certainly a very small quantity. Besides carbonic acid 
the skin probably also eliminates other organic combinations in 
the form of gas, though it would be very difficult to analyze 
them by exact experiments. Pettenkoffer was able to demon- 
strate from experiments, that, if many persons are in a confined 
place, it is not carbonic acid alone that causes the very disagree- 
able sensation of the foul air, but that it is a consequence of 



i Aubert: Pfliiger Archiv, vol. vi, p. 539, 1872. 

" (209) 



210 Old Age Deferred. 



the accumulation of harmful products of perspiration through the 
skin, the particular nature of which has not been determined 
as yet. 

On this account it is permissible to speak of a respiration 
through the skin, although it has not yet been demonstrated 
by exact methods that the skin is really absorbing small quanti- 
ties of oxygen ; and it is even now not yet beyond doubt whether 
the small amount of carbonic acid may not be ascribed, perhaps, 
to the decomposition of the excretions from the skin, and of 
the epidermis that is shed, as stated by Prof. Bunge. 2 

But if it is not possible to prove the certainty of respiration 
through the skin to a degree that would satisfy the postulates 
of exact science, on the other hand the observations of ancient 
savants, whose chemical knowledge and powers of observation 
were not inferior to those of their present successors, in spite of 
a deficient education in chemistry, all point to its existence, and 
we shall have to take it into account. 

As a rule the various products of skin perspiration 
cannot be seen, as they are eliminated in the form of vapor. 
This evaporation takes place in this invisible form, however, 
only when it is not checked or when it is not produced in ex- 
cessive quantity. But when such evaporation is hindered by 
clothing that is impermeable to such products, such as rubber 
clothes or fur, or when it is too abundant, then it will be 
eliminated in the form of water through the pores, and will 
appear in drops. The human body loses from i to 1^2 liters of 
this moisture, that is to say, sweat, in a day. 

Such checking of evaporation produces a very disagreeable 
feeling, a fact that indicates the existence of skin respiration; as 
does also the circumstance that persons clothed in a way that 
permits of the circulation of air to the skin and the elimination 
of the products of perspiration, and who also use other means 
for maintaining a good hygiene of the skin, such as a bath, are 
always in better health than those who neglect these points. 

2 Professor Bunge : Lehrbuch der Physiologie des Menschen, Leipzig, 1905. 



Toxic Products and the Skin. 211 

That the retention of various harmful products normally 
eliminated through the skin is extremely injurious to health is best 
shown by the fact that animals whose skin is varnished all over 
invariably succumb to intoxication. Especially is this true in 
amphibia, who, as Spallanzani 3 found, can live longer after the 
removal of the lungs than after varnishing the whole skin. The 
cause of this is that in amphibia the respiration by the skin is 
more important than that through the lungs. 

But even if, in higher animals, there is far more respiration 
through the lungs than through the skin, the varnishing over 
of the skin on the entire body can produce death in certain mam- 
malia. This has also been observed to have occurred in man. 
The day before the solemn entry into Rome of Pope Leo XIII, a 
little boy was painted over his entire body with gold leaf so as 
to represent an angel ; but he suddenly died before the procession 
began. We cannot, however, conceal the fact that the death of 
higher animals, according to some authorities, is not due to the 
retention of the products of perspiration, but rather to an in- 
creased loss of warmth of the body, especially as these animals 
have always been shaved prior to being varnished. 

Still, for reasons we shall give later, we believe that this 
cannot alter our views on the harmfulness of checking respira- 
tion through the skin. The injurious action of this is also 
shown by the fact that persons whose skin is burnt to a large 
extent, die, as a rule, by intoxication. Certain opinions have been 
advanced which ascribe such a death to a change in the consti- 
tution of the blood after extensive burns. I am inclined to think 
that death may be due to the fact that the skin respiration is, 
in such a case, more suppressed, as the body is enveloped in 
bandages which, like sticking plaster, do not admit of air circu- 
lation; and also because there is no elimination. At the same 
time the other parts of the body are covered by the clothing in- 
stead of the same being removed. If, however, after such burns 
the body be kept quite naked and the air thus permitted a free cir- 

3 Memorabilien traduits par Levebier, p. 77, Geneve, 1863. 



212 Old Age Deferred. 



culation on all sides, then even after the most extensive burns 
death will not follow, as we have seen in several cases so treated 
by Dr. Sneve in St. Paul, Minn., whose wards we inspected 
some years ago. Why should the changes in the blood not in- 
duce death in these patients in the same way as it does in 
patients swathed in bandages? Logically, this cannot be the 
reason for death, but in all probability it is the suppression of 
the skin respiration. But if death after extensive burns is due to 
this cause, then the same may be given as the cause of death after 
varnishing the body. The substances which are eliminated from 
the body through perspiration are urea, uric acid (in small quan- 
tities only), common salt, creatin, acetic acid, lactic acid, and a 
number of fatty acids. Although exact science does not demon- 
strate that poisonous matters are eliminated through perspiration, 
still some very noted men, like Ortner and Goldscheider, are 
convinced of it. Arloing contends that the perspiration of even 
a healthy man is toxic, whereas Queirolo admits this to be so 
only in the case of sick persons. 

We shall also be able to realize the great importance of 
the skin as an eliminating organ for toxic products after a little 
consideration on the origin of skin diseases, which we believe 
are due to two principal causes: Firstly, the invasion of mi- 
crobes into the skin after a diminution of its resistance, which, 
in turn, is dependent upon the condition of its nutrition by 
the blood. This is the external cause. Secondly, by the elimi- 
nation of toxic products which are formed in the body and then 
pass through the skin. These may have originally been intro- 
duced from the outside, either by food or by drugs, or they may 
have been produced in the body through products arising from 
certain glands, such as the thyroid, sexual glands, etc. The waste 
products of metabolism, such as uric acid, may also be included 
in this category. This is the internal cause of skin diseases. 
Both of these causes may stand in relationship ; thus the existence 
of the second may favor the development of the first. 

For the subject now under consideration the second cause is 



Toxic Products and the Skin. 213 

more important, and we will say a few words on the matter as 
showing the importance of the skin as an eliminating organ for 
toxic products. 

We may frequently see persons who are affected by erup- 
tions on the skin after eating certain kinds of food, as oysters 
or strawberries; and especially after eating oysters which have 
not been absolutely fresh. In our own case, and in many others 
which we have observed, an eruption of acne on the face has fol- 
lowed the eating of cheese. A similar state of things may result 
from taking certain drugs; thus, after bromine or iodine very 
often acne may be observed on the face. This interesting fact 
we have experienced personally and have noted in patients who 
have taken thyroid tablets in certain quantities, which also 
contain iodine. 

If we examine acne eruptions we find in them certain mi- 
crobes, such as the bacillus of Unna, etc. In gout, which is 
caused by the retention of uric acid, skin diseases are very 
frequent. 

Sufferers from Graves's disease, in which there is, as has 
been so often mentioned, a hyperactivity of the thyroid gland, 
have very frequently cutaneous eruptions, including acne, and often 
also a very irritating pruritus. Also in diabetes, in which thyroid 
hyperactivity plays a prominent role, it is not so much the sugar as 
the factor I have referred to, which is the cause of the great 
frequency of skin diseases. Here also a number of toxic prod- 
ucts are eliminated through the skin. 

In women, during menstruation, we often see cutaneous 
eruptions, as acne or hives. The former is often very distressing 
in boys and girls in the years of puberty, and it is quite impos- 
sible to deny that this may be a symptom of a hyperactivity 
of the sexual glands. Thus, we often observe acne in persons 
who are masturbating, or who for a long time live in complete 
sexual abstinence, so that in certain places the laity term these 
"pimples of chastity." Here, again, married life is the best 
cure for this disease, as it is for so many others. - 



214 Old Age Deferred. 



It is very interesting to note during the question we are now 
discussing that persons suffering from psoriasis feel relief from 
their affection when they have had a good opening of the 
bowels, or when they perspire freely; hence in hot summer 
weather they suffer less inconvenience than in the winter; also 
by following a certain diet this disease may be favorably influ- 
enced; that is to say, such persons have fewer psoriatic patches 
when the toxic products are eliminated by the intestines or kid- 
neys. When there is a hyperactivity of the skin function, as in 
perspiration, the toxic products are eliminated in the vapor or 
moisture of the perspiration, but during a diminution of this func- 
tion they form the psoriatic patches. 

When the skin function is increased, as in sweating, a num- 
ber of products that are otherwise eliminated through the urine 
pass through the skin, which may eliminate a considerable part 
of the solid waste products, and particularly a very important 
chemical product common salt. When the kidney is diseased 
the elimination of common salt and other substances may become 
difficult, and thus still more injure the kidneys; these products, 
and especially the common salt, will be retained. Then comes 
the skin to the assistance of the kidneys. Not an inconsiderable 
part of these substances may then pass through the skin when 
it is in a condition of increased activity, in the form of sweat. 
Thus the kidneys and skin work in harmony; they are com- 
panions, and may be graphically called "Kidney and Co.," the 
skin being the second partner. The skin is thus one of our most 
important organs, and in the following chapter we will deal 
with its hygiene. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 
THE HYGIENE OF THE SKIN AIR BATHS. 

IN another part of this work we have attributed to the 
kidneys a very important part in the causes of premature old 
age, as their degeneration is one of the most striking causes of 
auto-intoxication, the immediate cause of old age. The more 
injurious the products passing through the kidneys, the quicker 
will these noble organs be degenerated and the sooner will they 
decay. 

It will thus be the wisest policy in the prevention of prema- 
ture old age and in the interests of a long life, to lighten the 
work of the kidneys, and avoid their being overstrained by 
throwing a part of the work on their partner the skin. This 
organ, as stated at the close of the preceding chapter, is, in a 
certain measure, a co-partner with the kidneys. When, through- 
cold weather, for instance, the functions of the skin are dimin- 
ished, a greater flow of liquid will pass through the kidneys in 
the form of urine; but when the weather is hot and there is 
perspiration, to a certain extent, less liquid will be secreted and 
excreted by the kidneys : that is, they will work less. By per- 
spiration, also, more common salt will pass through the skin, and 
consequently less through the kidneys. 

It follows logically from these considerations that if we are 
anxious to preserve the vitality of the kidneys and also free the 
blood from noxious elements, we must pay special attention to 
a good action of the skin, and this is only possible by a rational 
hygiene. 

The sudorific glands are abundantly provided with small 
blood-vessels, which bring a large quantity of warm blood to 
them, from which they absorb watery and solid parts, and, in all 
probability, gaseous substances also, and pass them through their 
tortuous excretory channels to the surface of the skin. The 

(215) 



216 Old Age Deferred. 



mouths of these channels are the pores, and it is of fundamental 
importance that they remain open ; for if closed these waste prod- 
ucts cannot pass out and must remain in the body, while in addi- 
tion no air can pass into the pores, and so no exchange of 
materials can take place. 

These pores can easily be clogged; for example, by the 
scales cuticle which we shed every day, mostly from the 
superficial layers of the skin, and also by the oily secretion of 
the sebaceous glands. The fat that these glands secrete is in- 
tended by Nature to serve as a protection against liquids, like 
water, and against the perspiration from the skin. In some per- 
sons this fat is secreted in too large quantities and may then, 
especially with its products of decomposition, clog the pores. In 
the same way the products of perspiration, and also foreign 
materials, such as dust, may close the pores. It will, therefore, 
be necessary to remove all these substances which are prevent- 
ing the proper aeration of the skin and the elimination of harmful 
matters by it. It is also not impossible, when the products of 
decomposition of the sweat remain long in close contact with 
the skin, that some of those injurious elements may be reabsorbed. 

The best method of getting rid of these harmful substances 
is by bathing every day. But water alone, except it be very 
hot, and the bath of long duration (and in this case it presents 
some inconvenience and may be injurious also to health if taken 
daily), is not able to remove the oily and fatty products of the 
skin. Therefore it is best to use soap in addition to water, and 
to rub energetically with it the entire skin surface of the body. 

Besides removing, by a bath, the injurious products that 
clog the pores, we must take particular care to allow air to 
penetrate to the pores as freely as possible, thus permitting a free 
issue to the body exhalations and facilitating respiration by the 
skin. 

We should not, therefore, exclude the air by thick, non- 
porous clothing, such as furs ; nor should we use underwear 
that fits too closely to the body. To permit of a thorough aera- 



Hygiene of the Skin Air Baths. 217 

tion of the skin it would be advantageous to remain exposed 
naked to the air once or twice during each twenty-four hours, 
and each time for at least five to ten minutes. When the weather 
is warm and we bathe in the sea or a river, we combine the ad- 
vantages of a water and air bath. But in places where there is no 
sea, lake, or river in which to bathe, we could, if living in the 
country, enclose some spot for such an air bath which, in sunny 
weather, would also become a sun bath at the same time. On 
the grass of a clearing in a wood, or in a garden, such an air bath 
could best be taken. In summer, if the air is not too warm, and 
if we are in the sun, we may remain longer than ten minutes in 
such an air bath. 

If we are not able to procure a place in which such a bath 
can be taken quite naked without being seen, the next best thing 
is to clothe oneself in amply large white pajamas, or, for women, 
in a very wide white mantle or costume of the empire style, and 
thus attired to take a walk in the garden or ground of one's 
property. 

In cities many can take such an air bath in one room every 
day when they can spare ten minutes, the best time being before 
dressing and after undressing. But also during the day, espe- 
cially in summer, we should spare a few moments to take such 
a bath. In winter the room must, of course, be warmed for the 
purpose. In combination with the bath, breathing exercises 
can also be performed to great advantage in the way described 
in the chapter on the advantage of open air. In order to avoid 
catching cold in such an air bath it is advisable to rub the 
entire skin surface of the body. This causes much blood to be 
brought to the skin ; thus more blood is conveyed to the sudorific 
glands which are thereby enabled to absorb a larger quantity of 
harmful matters from it, while at the same time more air can be 
taken in by the pores. While rubbing which is best done by 
a brush we can also move about, and while standing also beat 
the periphery of the body with a thick rough towel in the same 
way as in Finland they do with brushwood after hot baths. It 



218 Old Age Deferred. 



is not painful and is very effective in producing a hyperaemia 
of the surface of the skin. When the skin is thus better nour- 
ished with blood it also offers more resistance to germs that may 
cause diseases of the skin, and such better nutrition and its im- 
proved hygienic condition is a safeguard against catching cold. 

Such an occurrence is more likely to occur in persons who 
neglect a thorough cleansing of the body daily by baths and who 
go warmly clad; in such cases the muscles which contract the 
pores are less active, and because of this more body heat is lost 
and catching cold more easily takes place. When we feel warm 
more blood circulates through the skin, and when afterward cold 
air reaches us the pores, in a normal person, contract quickly and 
the blood is retained in the interior of the body. Thus we 
are prevented from giving off too much warmth from the 
body and catching cold. Persons who have been trained since 
their early childhood to cold water and cold air show a great 
facility for reaction against cold. When cold air reaches the 
skin, which on account of warm surroundings has become warm, 
filled with blood, red, and moist, the skin will contract and 
become pale, the easy conduction of warmth will be checked, and 
the heat retained in the body. Thus such persons will not so 
easily catch cold as others whose skin is not kept in good hygienic 
condition. 

Many people have already shortened their existence by 
catching colds. Pneumonia, pleurisy, nephritis, and many other 
dangerous ailments have arisen from such a cause and led to 
premature death. A good hygiene of the skin not only serves 
to eliminate toxic products from the body and keep our kidneys 
in good order, but also prevents the tendency to catching cold, 
which is so often the cause of an early death. We must, there- 
fore, do our best by a careful rational attention to the hygiene 
of the skin, and for this purpose we will deal further with the 
subject in two chapters on the hygiene of the skin by bathing 
and by rational clothing. 



CHAPTER XXV. 
ON RATIONAL CLOTHING. 

THE chief object of rational clothing is to obtain porosity. 
All underwear as well as outer coverings must be made out of 
some porous substance which will in no way check the perspira- 
tion from the body or the evaporation of such perspiration, and 
which will at the same time allow of a free passage of air to all 
parts of the body. 

First, we will discuss the question as to the nature of the 
underwear which is most appropriate for keeping ourselves 
in a healthy condition. 

Wool is the most suitable material for warmth for under- 
clothing, as it is a bad conductor of heat and can therefore best 
retain the natural heat of the body. It follows, therefore, 
that this is the best for aged persons to use. 

In old age, especially when very advanced, less natural 
heat is produced in the body. On account of the degenera- 
tive changes of the small capillaries the surface of the body is 
not so well provided with the heating element, which is the 
blood. At the same time, on account of the loss in elasticity of 
the musculature, the skin of an aged person contracts less readily 
from cold than does the skin of younger people; thus, while on 
the one hand less warmth is produced, on the other hand more 
warmth may be given off, a due consideration of which leads 
to the logical conclusion that all aged persons had best wear 
woolen underclothing. 

Woolen underwear, though the best to retain the warmth of 
the body, has, on the other hand, very serious drawbacks. Wool 
possesses the great advantage of easily absorbing the perspira- 
tion of the body; it can, in fact, absorb about 40 per cent, of 

(219) 



220 Old Age Deferred. 



the moisture, by weight, without becoming so saturated as to 
be noticeable ; but at the same time it gives off this moisture again 
very slowly, necessitating the changing at once of such damp 
covering. 

The greatest drawback to wool, however, is that it soon 
loses its porosity after it has been washed, for then it shrinks 
and its meshes contract, and in consequence the material is no 
longer porous ; while in this condition it does not freely give off 
the moisture, but retains it, the aeration of the skin is seriously 
hindered, and the products of perspiration are not gotten rid of. 

Everybody knows what a disagreeable feeling is produced 
by keeping on such underwear after it has become dampened by 
perspiration, and this is due to the prevention of the dissemination 
of the exhalations from the body. Such disadvantages to the 
wearer of woolen underclothing may possibly be discounted by 
making such underwear with large meshes ; but even in this case 
it is not easy to prevent the loss of porosity after washing. It 
is therefore advisable to wear a large meshed linen garment 
next the skin under the woolen underclothing; there will thus 
be a cushion of air between the skin and the woolen garment; 
and linen also has a great affinity for absorbing moisture and 
rapidly giving it off again. 

All kinds of underwear, whether of wool or other material, 
should be loose about the body. It is a great mistake to have it 
too tight. There should always be a considerable layer of air 
between the clothing and the skin. This layer is warmed by the 
blood at the surface of the body, and as air is a bad conductor 
of heat, even in the case of underwear not so thick as wool, 
if such clothing is worn somewhat loosely about the body and 
is porous, we shall not feel cold. The porosity of the tissue per- 
mits the entrance of air, and such tissues, with air in their pores, 
are abstracting a minimum of heat from the body, though such 
pores in the tissue allow for the free passage and exit of the 
harmful exhalations and evaporations from the body. 

From the foregoing it follows that socks which do not fit 



On Rational Clothing. 221 

too tightly but fairly loosely, and which are made of porous ma- 
terial, such as good wool, will also be the warmest. It is quite 
unnecessary to adopt heavy double socks which fill up all the space 
in the shoes; as a matter of fact in such a case we may have 
colder feet than if we wore light porous good woolen socks that 
do not fit too tightly. 

Linen possesses the great advantage that it easily absorbs 
moisture and easily gives it off again, but as it is not such a bad 
conductor of heat as wool, and freely gives off heat, it may most 
advantageously be utilized in warm weather, and also in winter 
if worn under the other woolen garments. 

Linen is superior to wool in so far as the matter of cleaning 
it is concerned, as it can be washed much more thoroughly than 
wool, which easily retains dust and dirt. Linen is one of the 
most porous substances for underwear. 

Ramie is a material made from a tropical plant, the Bceh- 
meria Nvuea, and has lately come much into use. It readily 
absorbs the moisture from the skin and does not retain it as 
long as does wool, but rapidly gives it off again. It also does 
not abstract warmth so much as linen, and next to wool is the 
warmest material for underwear. The drawbacks to it, how- 
ever, are that it is too heavy and does not last long. Silk under- 
wear also retains the warmth, and also very easily absorbs 
moisture; but it is too expensive for ordinary use, and can 
readily be spoilt by indifferent washing, unless the most expen- 
sive quality is used. 

Of all the various materials for use as underwear possibly 
cotton has the greatest average advantages. It gives off the 
moisture it has absorbed from the skin, although not quite so 
efficaciously as does linen. According to James Paton it absorbs 
moisture equally well as linen; but Pettenkoffer is of a dif- 
ferent opinion, as in his view cotton does not absorb the moisture 
from the skin as readily as does linen. 

The greatest advantage, however, of cotton over all other 
kinds of material (except perhaps ramie) for underwear is its 



222 Old Age Deferred. 



porosity. It is about the most porous material there is, espe- 
cially if in the course of manufacture the maker takes particular 
care in selecting the very best cotton; it does not shrink like 
wool, and therefore does not lose its porosity in the same way 
when washed. 

When cotton is so manufactured as to present the greatest 
possible porosity, it has also the great advantage of being almost 
as warm as wool, which is due to the fact that air can enter 
freely everywhere and remain in the interstices of the material. 
It has already been mentioned that air is a bad conductor of 
heat, so that cotton underwear of good quality retains the 
warmth of the body and at the same time allows a free exit for 
the exhalations of the skin. If, therefore, cotton be prepared 
from the best possible material, and manufactured in such a 
manner as to obtain the greatest amount of porosity, i.e., when 
it is loosely woven, it can compete successfully with wool as 
material for warm underwear ; it is, therefore, quite an erroneous 
view to hold, as so many do, that cotton is very different in this 
respect from wool; everything depends upon the quality and the 
manner in which it is manufactured. 

According to the researches of Sir William Thompson 1 
there is practically no difference between wool, cotton, and linen 
in regard to their capacity as conductors of heat. Nevertheless 
we ourselves still believe that in winter weather, or when there 
are cold northern winds, wool is best, especially for the aged. 
This same holds good also for those younger persons who catch 
cold easily. 

In order to keep warm in winter it is, however, necessary 
that the cotton material should be of a certain thickness, besides 
being of the best quality and of the best make. As already men- 
tioned it is of the utmost importance that the underwear should 
not fit too closely around the body, but that there should always 
be a layer of warm air between the skin and the garment. In- 
stead of the present custom of wearing close-fitting trousers it 

1 Sir William Thompson, in "Heat," Encyclopaedia Britannica. 



On Rational Clothing. 223 

would be much more beneficial to adopt the very large loose 
linen trousers that are worn in certain countries, such as Hun- 
gary. When once accustomed to such, and especially in the 
case of the younger generation, they can readily be worn also in 
winter time. Then, possibly, porous cotton can take the place 
of linen, although many people may feel just as warm in porous 
linen underwear; or we could possibly follow the example of an 
English gentleman who told me he never wore any underdrawers 
at all. 

In many European countries women, especially of the lower 
classes, wear no undergarments on their legs at all. In healthy 
women such a custom may be of great advantage, as it permits 
of the free passage of air and the elimination of the perspiration 
from the skin, being in effect a continuous free air bath for the 
lower parts of the body. 

It is not so necessary to keep the lower extremities, except 
the feet, warm (provided that the feet are made warm by the 
constant motion of their muscles), as we do not need to be so 
well protected there as on the upper parts of the body; we also 
feel the cold less in these parts, which we can all appreciate if 
we are in the habit of walking much and not sitting about all 
day. 

Before putting on clean underwear we must be careful to 
ascertain that it has been thoroughly aired and is quite dry, for 
it happens in more cases than one knows of that the linen arrives 
from the laundry quite damp, although apparently it appears 
and feels dry. After having caught cold each time I changed 
my linen, after having perspired, I had the idea to put my vest 
over an electric lamp, and was surprised to see a cloud of mois- 
ture arise from it. As moisture readily absorbs the warmth of 
the body, we can therefore easily lose too much warmth and 
thus catch cold. Before putting on clean linen it is also advis- 
able to rub the body with a brush (or rough towel) until the 
skin glows, and the linen itself should of course be put into a 
hot-air cupboard or be aired before a stove or, fire, by which 



224 Old Age Deferred. 



means many colds will be prevented; and these precautions are 
particularly necessary in all cases after free perspiration, in 
which latter case also a bath is very desirable before putting on 
our clean linen. It is of primary importance to change under- 
wear every day, so as not to leave the products of perspiration 
on the skin for several days (see chapters on the hygiene of 
the skin and kidneys through perspiration). 

We will now offer a few remarks on the subject of white 
linen. We should not wear starched linen shirts, as they are less 
permeable to the air. In lieu of these, porous linen shirts are 
advisable, or any other kind of soft and porous material, without 
a starched front. The use of starched shirts should be confined 
to dinner parties and social functions. 

The most absurd part of our linen outfit is unquestionably 
that instrument of torture we wear as a yoke around our neck, 
preventing a free circulation through our most important arteries 
and throttling one of our most important organs the thyroid 
gland. This we know as the "starched collar," without which 
we must not appear in decent society. It is in any or all of its 
present shapes an unhealthy article of clothing, but especially so 
when, from foolishness, it is worn standing high up to the chin, 
keeping away the air from the neck and hindering free cir- 
culation. Its bad effects upon the thyroid have already been 
referred to in the chapter on the hygiene of the thyroid gland. 
It would be more reasonable to wear a low collar, turned down, 
and of soft linen, as worn by our forefathers. Women may have 
this privilege, but, sad to say, they do not avail themselves of 
it, but instead, in many instances, cover their necks, and even more 
than their neck, by impermeable materials. Yet the neck is one 
of the parts of the human frame where many sudorific glands are 
situated and where we perspire freely. These parts especially 
should not be enclosed by clothing; neither should the arm- 
pits and the toes of the feet, for here the sudorific glands of the 
body are very numerous. Yet we wear the most impermeable 
materials, such as leather, and often indeed thick leather, and 



On Rational Clothing. 225 

horribile dictu! even rubbers, very often, on these important 
organs. 

The outer garments should also be made, after careful con- 
sideration, to afford the greatest amount of porosity. It would 
be the height of hygienic triumph to wear clothes made to allow 
of the free inlet of wholesome sunlight. Gray garments are, 
therefore, the best, and next to this blue should be greatly pre- 
ferred to dark colors. 

The overcoat should never be too heavy nor too warm; 
as a general rule, we should never wear clothes warmer than the 
temperature at the time requires, always being guided by the 
thermometer and not by the calendar. It is much better to be 
clad too lightly than too warmly, for we thus avoid perspiring 
and thereby catching cold; or, in. other words, if clad simply 
lightly the likelihood of our taking cold is less than when we 
are too warmly clothed, for then we also perspire less freely. 
It may be that we shall more readily feel cold, but, fortu- 
nately, the sensation of feeling cold does not imply catching cold. 
In fact, when lightly clad we feel much more inclined to take 
brisk exercise. Then we feel warm, and, as we shall show in the 
chapter on exercise, more blood is sent to the periphery of the 
body and the general nutrition of the skin is increased. 
Naturally, when we are lightly clad we do not sit about without 
moving, but we endeavor to create a reaction in the skin by brisk 
exercise. Englishmen, and especially Scotchmen, rarely wear 
an overcoat, never sleep in a warmed room, and rarely ever catch 
cold, which is certainly much more prevalent in countries with 
overheated houses, as in America, and where the people are more 
accustomed to ride in the street cars (also heated) than to walk. 

Catching cold is best obviated by hardening the body against 
the influence of cold, and this is best done by a continual 
aeration of the skin, and by means of cold baths, commenced in 
a judicious manner. We should become accustomed to permit 
the entrance of air as frequently as possible to the whole sur- 
face of the body, which we can do by remaining stark naked in 

15 



226 Old Age Deferred. 



our room for only a few moments several times a day, as already 
advocated in the chapter on the hygiene of the skin. But still 
more important is free access to the air, even though cold, if we 
desire to be immune against colds. Most people who do catch 
cold contract it first in the head, especially after being in a state 
of perspiration. 

The frontal and temporal parts of the head are very well 
provided with sudorific glands, and it is therefore most unreason- 
able to prevent free air access by a warm covering. It is also 
unnecessary, because Nature has already provided these parts 
with a natural covering, viz. : the hair, which, with the skull, 
is intended for the adequate protection of our most delicate organ, 
the special construction of which places us above all other 
animal creation. 

That young men with abundance of hair should wear heavy 
head coverings is extremely unreasonable. It would be a far 
more healthy custom to go without a hat, and thus preserve for a 
much longer period this natural ornament to the head. At the 
same time we would perspire less in the head and thus be less 
liable to take cold. By continuing this practice, as is customary 
among the boys of a certain English school (The Blue Coat 
School), the scalp of the head will become so much hardened 
against climatic influences that we should be able to go out with 
uncovered head even in cold weather. As, however, not all our 
neighbors and acquaintance are keenly interested in the postu- 
lates of health and long life they may laugh at first, but afterward 
they will themselves be converted by the advantages of such a 
custom and will follow our example. 

Those whose scalp has become bald or only scantily covered 
with hair, by excluding from the same too much air or by reason 
of disease, may not so readily- stand the effect of the cold, 
and for such a head gear may be necessary, in which case the 
preference should be given to soft and very light felt hats, and 
not to those made of hard material, which prevent the circulation 
of the blood through the scalp and thus kill the roots of the hair. 



On Rational Clothing. 227 

Those who are slaves to the prejudices of their short-sighted 
brethren may wear their hat when in their company or in the 
streets, but by all means take it off at other times, and especially 
when in the woods or in the fields. 

It is a singular anomaly that the English, who in many ques- 
tions of hygiene, as by conducting their sports in the open 
air, stand at the head of all nations, yet obstinately stick to their 
tall hats and long black coats in the warmest summer weather, 
sacrificing health and comfort to social prejudices. How long 
will Bacon's nation persist in such a custom?* 

Other parts of the body richly provided with sudorific 
glands are the feet. This must logically make it obligatory for 
all who wish strictly to follow the rules of health and long life 
not to prevent the free access of air by impermeable rubbers or 
heavy high boots. Leather, of course, is not a porous material, 
like certain kinds of cloth, and hinders the free passage of air 
and the evaporation from the surface of the feet. The most suit- 
able footwear, and that best adapted to the demands of rational 
hygiene, would be sandals, similar to those worn by the Greeks 
and the Romans. Such, however, could only, in present days, 
be worn in villages, at the seaside, or in the country generally, 
if we do not want to be criticized as queer or eccentric by our 
neighbors, who have less knowledge of the hygienic methods of 
living. 

It might be possible to make footwear in such a manner as 
to overcome this feeling as to wearing them of the nature of 
sandals, or part sandals and part shoes such as slippers or 
"pumps." At any rate it is advisable never to wear other foot- 
gear than half-shoes, and the author of this work wears such even 
in winter time without inconvenience and without feeling cold. 
The best half-shoes for summer wear would be those made of 
canvas with leather soles. It goes without saying that one has to 
get accustomed to this habit of wearing low shoes, by beginning 



* Latterly city men wear straw hats in summer and also the coachmen 
and servants of the upper class. 



228 Old Age Deferred. 



in warm weather and continuing uninterruptedly to the winter, 
and even throughout that season, unless very severe weather 
prevails, when gaiters should be worn above them. 

If porous woolen socks of the best quality are worn in con- 
junction with the half-shoes cold is not felt, especially if we do 
not remain still but walk about briskly, which will practically 
convince us of the necessity of walking and running for exercise. 

Rubbers are unquestionably unhealthy things to wear, and 
to many will cause a disagreeable sensation owing to the hindrance 
to foot perspiration. 

It is advisable to take off our shoes, as the Mohammedan 
does, as often as possible during the day; for instance, while 
working or reading, and at any time when we are in private, 
and only put them on again when visitors are present. Every- 
body appreciates what an agreeable sensation it is to take off one's 
shoes and have a good airing of the feet, especially after a 
long walk, in which latter case a foot-bath is also a capital 
thing which will certainly increase our comfort, especially if we 
have been wearing sandals or half-shoes and we have been wan- 
dering about the country exposed to dust. 

We have referred more fully to the use of the foot-bath 
in another chapter. In the same way as with our foot-wear, we 
should reform our ways by removing the yoke which cruel 
fashion obliges us to wear round our necks the high, stiff col- 
lar. How long shall we continue to put up with these con- 
tinuous impediments to our health? Top hats! tight collars! 
tight boots with a pointed toe! and a fur coat over our dark 
clothes! How can the sun and air penetrate such idiotic har- 
ness, and how can the poisonous exhalations of the body find 
their way into the fresh air when they are retarded by very 
heavy and warm woolen underwear? We must again repeat 
that we catch cold much more easily when we are clad too 
warmly than too lightly. The more freely we perspire in our 
clothes the more easily we catch cold. We found this from 
personal experience. We were at one time always catching cold, 



On Rational Clothing. 229 

in consequence of too sedulously wrapping ourself in woolen 
garments and heavy clothing. But since we have taken to wear- 
ing linen or cotton underwear and light clothes, with half-shoes, 
carrying our hat in the hand, and the overcoat rather on the arm 
than on the body, we now rarely ever catch cold. 

All of our garments should be loosely fitting, and in this 
respect the American fashion for men's clothing is superior to 
the European fashion of tightly fitting garments. Also the 
present style of long, narrow trousers is not only unsesthetic but 
also unhealthy and unsuitable for quick movements. Let us 
go back to the knee-breeches of forefathers, who were thereby 
made much more pleasing to the eyes at least, those of normal 
build were. 

A sufficient aeration of the body is necessary not only by 
day, but by night. In fact, it is more necessary at night, for 
as mentioned in the chapter on sleep, the ridding of the body 
from toxic products is performed more actively during the night. 
It will logically follow from this consideration that heavy feather 
beds and, in fact, all kinds of heavy coverlets are not beneficial 
to health, as they are apt to suppress the exhalations of the body 
and to prevent the access of air to the body. For the same rea- 
sons it is also imprudent to go to bed in underwear, and par- 
ticularly if woolen. I would even go so far as to dispense with 
the use of the night-shirt, a garment which was quite unknown 
to our ancestors until a few hundred years ago. By going to bed 
quite nude, in a large bed, with ample bed clothes of a porous 
material wrapped not too tightly about the body, we have thus a 
kind of air-bath in bed and feel more refreshed in the morning, 
especially after having slept in a room where the air can enter 
freely. In cold weather in winter a double woolen coverlet can 
be used. 

It may be that in carrying out strictly the rules of a rational 
hygiene of clothing as laid down above, many people may have 
to revolutionize their old habits of an unhealthy and life-short- 
ening way of living. But the real question is : Do we want to 



230 Old Age Deferred. 



live long and retain as long as possible our youth that is passing 
away only too quickly in any case, or do we want to descend 
into an early grave before our time? Those who desire the first 
alternative and who wish to enjoy their lives up to the very last 
may follow my advice ; then they will soon be rewarded by fresher 
looks and increased vital power. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

IMPROVED HYGIENE OF THE SKIN AND KIDNEYS THROUGH 
BATHING FOOT-BATHS. 

EVERY day we are getting rid of the superficial layers of 
the skin, which process can become so intense in some people 
that the skin looks as though it were covered with flour dust; 
and in some persons with dry skin such apparel as stockings 
sometimes gets full of this. These minute scales, which get 
necrotised in the upper parts of the skin, are apt to clog the 
pores, which can also become closed by particles of dust, or by 
products of the sebaceous glands and by perspiratory residues. 
As the free entrance of air to the pores is an essential condition 
for skin respiration, and as the elimination of harmful products 
is only possible when the pores remain open, we must get rid 
of the foreign matters which clog them, for which purpose we 
take a bath. But water alone, even if it be hot, is not able to 
effect a thorough cleansing of the skin on account of the oily sub- 
stance which is secreted by the sebaceous glands ; so, to obtain the 
fullest cleansing effects, we add the use of soap and a brush, as 
already mentioned before. We must rub the soap well in, and 
then rub it off energetically, if we desire to benefit by a fully 
hygienic bath. 

As we are daily getting rid of the above-mentioned skin 
scales, so it behooves us to take a daily bath. It is not necessary 
to stay in the bath more than ten to twelve minutes, or at the 
most fifteen. For the reasons above mentioned the effect of 
bathing is a rational hygiene of the skin. 

By the action of the water, soap, and brush friction the 
skin receives more blood, which is, at the same time, a great 
advantage to the internal organs, as the blood drawn away from 
them facilitates the circulation through them . should they be 

(231) ' 



232 Old Age Deferred. 



congested. When more blood reaches the skin the muscles that 
contract the pores are also better nourished, and they then react 
better to certain agencies cold, for instance. They quickly 
contract the pores, so that the blood will be kept back in the 
interior of the body and a cooling off of the periphery of the 
body, with its dangerous consequences from catching cold, maj 
thus be avoided. 

A daily bath can also be advantageous for those who per- 
spire too freely. After a bath, and this is one of its greatest 
advantages, the insensible perspiration is much increased, and 
more water leaves the body through the pores than before, and 
when a bath has been too hot, a very free perspiration may 
ensue. But usually with people with a too free perspiration, 
this tendency would.be diminished, as it can often be noted that 
those who daily take a luke-warm bath perspire less than others 
on warm summer days. 

Besides exciting the functions of the skin baths are also an 
excellent means for diminishing a possible overwork of the kid- 
neys, and thus keeping them in good condition. It is possible to 
eliminate, through bathing, such products by the skin which 
otherwise would have to be eliminated through the kidneys. 

It has recently been shown by experiments conducted by 
Strasser and Blumenkranz 1 that baths taken for a long time and 
at a temperature of 34-35 C, are able to create an increased 
elimination, not only of a considerable quantity of water, but of 
common salt also, and of the products of decomposition of 
nitrogenous matter. 

These authorities come to the conclusion that through bath- 
ing there can be brought about a true increase not only of the 
water-secreting activity of the kidneys, but also of their ability to 
eliminate nitrogenous end-products and salt. They found an 
increase of diuresis to double the usual amount and an increased 
elimination of from 50 to 100 per cent, of nitrogen, and from 100 



1 Strasser tmd Blumenkranz : "Die Wirkung indifl'erenter und schweiss- 
^resbender Bader bei Nephritis," Med. kljn. ? JJeicbfte Hefte 6, 1W. 



Bathing Foot-baths. 233 

to 200 per cent, of salt. According to Liebermeister, Loewy, 
Rubner, and others, the processes of oxidation can be increased 
by cold baths from 50 or 100 to 200 per cent., and by hot baths, 
according to Winternitz and Rubner, 50 to 100 per cent. Rubner 
also asserts that the processes of oxidation can be wonderfully 
increased by cold douches. 

There can thus be no doubt that baths are able to influence 
the conditions of the kidneys in a very favorable way, and that 
their vitality may be augmented by the daily use of the bath. 

The drawback to the bath is that so many people easily 
catch cold afterward ; to prevent which, such persons should not 
wet the head, and especially the back part of it, as otherwise 
catching cold is easily effected ; and it is also of importance that 
the bath-room should not be left while the skin is hot. The 
best way is to allow cold water gradually to enter the bath, 
getting out directly there is the least sensation of cold. The 
rule should be not to leave the bath when the skin is hot and 
red and the pores wide open, without letting cold water contract 
them by taking a short douche, and on getting out of the bath 
the skin should be quickly dried by energetic friction with a 
rough towel until the skin becomes quite scarlet. Not sufficiently 
drying the skin will cool it rapidly, and even intensely, owing to 
the evaporation of the water from the periphery, and surely cause 
a severe cold. 

To prevent the habit of catching cold the best way is to 
accustom the skin to the action of cold water. Rubbing the skin 
with a cold wet towel until the skin glows, especially the chest 
and extremities, is a good way to effect this, beginning in warm 
summer weather and continuing through the winter, but not 
vice versa. Decidedly the best preventative to catching cold is 
to get the skin accustomed to fresh air and cold water. 

To prevent catching cold after a bath a reaction of the skin 
is necessary, and this is best attained by a rough towel, as before 
mentioned, and by rubbing the body with a hard brush. Mas- 
sage is an excellent addition to bathing, as by this means the 



234 Old Age Deferred. 



circulation through the skin and muscles is much increased, there- 
by increasing the oxidation of the body. By kneading the 
muscles waste products are brought into the lymphatics (see, also, 
chapters on exercise). 

It is only logical that we must pay special attention to 
cleanliness in those parts that have the greatest number of 
sudorific glands, such as for example the axillae and the toes of 
the feet. Circumstances often, as when on a journey, do not 
allow of the luxury of a complete bath, and in such cases we must 
be content to wash the body with water and soap, and to rub 
down with a rough towel and brush, paying particular attention 
to the axillae and feet. These may also be bathed in alcohol and 
water, 1 / 2 to 1 / 3 of the latter, and also with vinegar and water; 
the feet can best be cleansed in a foot-bath. 

From ancient times, especially in the East, such foot-baths 
have been largely used, probably for the reason that sandals were 
worn, which allowed dust and dirt to accumulate on the feet; 
people whose feet perspire freely should always use a foot-bath 
daily ; and, because the feet are a part of the body which are the 
worst aerated from being covered with impermeable leather, while 
they are, at the same time, the best provided with sudorific glands, 
a daily foot-bath is advised for all. 

When the feet perspire freely, hot water must be used ; but 
after using such we must immediately use cold water so that the 
opened pores will close again. Pouring cold water into the bath 
or over the feet will effect this, but it must be done quickly. 

Foot-baths are excellent things for those who suffer from 
cold feet, and what at first sight seems paradoxical, a cold foot- 
bath in particular, which acts by enlivening the circulation in 
the feet; the bathing should, however, only last about a couple 
of minutes. Cold baths for the feet also act very beneficially 
in cases of headache, and especially in insomnia. They act upon 
the distribution of blood in the brain; the blood-vessels are 
thereby first distended and afterward they contract, which, last- 
ing for a certain time, induces sleep; for, as mentioned in the 



Bathing Foot-baths. 235 

chapter on sleep, the brain must be free from blood if sleep is 
to result. In hot summer weather it is quite delightful to sit on 
the banks of a river and allow our feet to dangle in the water, 
and we always feel refreshed after it; walking with bare feet 
is also very pleasant and healthy in summer time. 

The action of a foot-bath is much increased by the addition 
of salt or mustard, and with the latter is an excellent preventa- 
tive against a hypersemic condition of the brain, such as apo- 
plexy, as thereby we favor a decreased congestion of this noble 
organ. 

Cold foot-baths should not be used by very old people, as 
they distend the brain-vessels which, as a rule, are altered in 
such people and may more easily rupture; if taken, a wet, cold 
towel should be wound round the head. 

Cold baths generally are often beneficial in the case of cer- 
tain nervous troubles, such as neurasthenia and hysteria; only 
they must never be too cold nor too prolonged, as otherwise the 
effects may be very depressing. A short cold friction of the 
body every morning on rising is of great advantage in the pre- 
servation of health. In kidney trouble we must, however, be 
careful, as often an increase of albuminuria has been observed 
after them. Sea baths are especially refreshing, owing to the 
sodium content of the salt water. Our own observations teach 
us that a bath had best be taken by first using water of the highest 
temperature that can be borne (about 42 degrees C). Those 
who can stand it might continue to add hot water until the skin 
is quite red. Abundant perspiration will then appear on the head, 
face, and neck. After having perspired freely, we should then 
allow cold water to enter until the bath has become cool. 
It usually takes some time to cool the water off thus gradually, 
but after such a bath there is a feeling of great exhilaration, 
especially after warm sea baths taken in this manner. We con- 
sider that hot baths of long duration say 30 to 45 minutes are 
especially useful in cases of kidney disease, or as a preventive of 
such. We could take them twice a week as a means of eliminat- 



236 Old Age Deferred. 



ing the toxic products of metabolism, but it is an essential condi- 
tion that the heart and blood-vessels be in good condition. The 
Japanese are in the habit of taking such hot baths at an enor- 
mously high temperature, and they feel the better for it. 

Bathing generally is favorable not only to the kidneys, but 
to all the organs, as the processes of oxidation are thereby pro- 
moted, and our prospects for long youth and long life are bettered. 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

HYGIENE OF THE SKIN AND KIDNEYS BY MEANS OF 
PERSPIRATION* 

UNDER normal conditions we daily lose a certain amount 
of water and also of gaseous and solid products, among them 
many harmful ones, through the invisible and insensible per- 
spiration of the skin. That such a process does actually take 
place is proved by our personal observation and by the disagree- 
able feeling produced in cold and damp weather by the checking 
of such perspiraton. We can even be seriously affected if by 
disease or by extensive burns a large portion of the skin be 
destroyed, thus abolishing this insensible perspiration. 

The invisible and insensible perspiration can become visible 
and sensible when either its evaporation into the air is checked, 
as in the case of tight-fitting clothing, such as a rubber over- 
coat, or when the temperature of the medium around the body 
is raised. Both conditions can be fulfilled by fur clothing, for 
which reason its use as wearing apparel is to be deprecated. 

When in a state of perspiration we should take special care 
that the passage of the perspiratory products into the air shall 
not be impeded by any means. Fur garments are not so un- 
suitable for old people in whom the perspiratory functions of the 
skin are much diminished. We have, in this connection, ob- 
served an old lady of 76 sitting at the dinner table, close to an 
overheated fireplace, and wearing a large fur collarette, in which 
she felt quite comfortable. As frequently mentioned in this book, 
in old age there is a degeneration of the thyroid gland to a 
greater or lesser degree, and consequently a lowering of the 
temperature of the body and a diminution of the functions of the 
skin, which is dry and rarely perspires. 

(237) 



238 Old Age Deferred. 



When the temperature of the medium which surrounds the 
body is raised to a high degree, the capillaries of the skin are 
widened and more blood circulates through them; thus also 
more blood is conveyed to the sudorific glands, and naturally 
more water is then excreted by them, and at the same time also 
more of the solid and harmful products. According to Camerer, 
the sweat contains in each 100 grammes 50.6 g. ashes, 10 g. fat, 
and 10 g. nitrogenous matters, of which 30 per cent, is urea and 
75 per cent, is ammonia. Uric acid was also found in the sweat 
of healthy people, but Magnus Levy found it missing in gouty 
patients. By frequent sweating procedures the hygienic condi- 
tions of the skin can be promoted, and especially so in individuals 
whose skin is generally dry and inactive. In those who perspire 
much too freely, however, after several procedures of this kind 
the overactivity of the sudorific glands can be diminished. After 
very free perspiration the condition of the skin will be improved, 
and then we will note the disappearance of certain skin dis- 
eases, such as psoriasis in hot summer weather. 

Habitual excessive perspiration can, however, impair the 
skin through the elimination of harmful products, although the 
skin is, to a certain extent, protected by the greasy matters 
secreted through the sebaceous glands. Likewise we can also 
note the loss of hair in persons perspiring very much about the 
head and more particularly in those parts where the sudorific 
glands are situated, such as the forehead and temples. This 
is most frequently observed in those who have dry hair, in 
whom accordingly there is a diminution of the functions of the 
sebaceous glands. In persons who wear fur caps and whose 
head is always covered, we most frequently find bald heads, 
especially if they have a tendency to perspiring about the head. 
For this reason it is also more reasonable never to wear hats if 
we desire to retain as long as possible the natural ornament of 
the head. 

We can cause abundant perspiration by all the various 
means by which the temperature of the body is raised. In such 



Hygiene of the Skin and Kidneys. 239 

cases more blood comes to the periphery of the body, and thus 
also to the sudorific glands. The essential factor is the widening 
of the capillaries, and this can be produced not only by agencies 
influencing the body from without, such as hot air or a vapor 
bath, but also by agencies from within the body which act on 
the vasomotor centers and thereby cause a widening of the 
capillaries, such as certain drugs like salicylates, and also organic 
preparations like thyroid extracts ; mental emotion will also cause 
such an occurrence. Salicylates are excellent drugs for produc- 
ing abundant perspiration, and are also less dangerous than 
pilocarpine. After the use of the former and very free perspira- 
tion, we notice an improvement in the symptoms of gout, for 
reasons we will give later. 

Of the different baths which are used to induce perspiration 
we award the preference to electric light baths, where we obtain 
a double advantage, for we can unite the advantages of per- 
spiration with those of the influence of light upon the body. We 
are able to prepare such a bath so that the chemically active rays 
(see chapter on the advantages of sunshine) are obtained. 
Not only is a very abundant perspiration produced (indeed some- 
times about a liter of sweat can be removed from the body in 
from twenty to twenty-two minutes), but also the processes of 
oxidation can be augmented. As a consequence we often note 
a great diminution of fat in persons with a superabundant accu- 
mulation of this substance. When in such baths blue light is 
used and the blue rays are acting in overwhelming quan- 
tity, the condition of the nervous system can be influenced in a 
very favorable way, and especially can excited conditions be 
calmed. It is also probable that by such sweating procedures 
toxic products, which are deleterious to the nervous system, can 
be removed. Perspiration can also be caused by bodily move- 
ment through exercise. In such cases, as proved by physiological 
experiments, impulses are sent to the vasomotor centers, which 
result in a widening* of the capillaries through the excitation of 
such centers. Thus sweating is created by fast walking, running-, 



240 Old Age Deferred. 



and frequently also by horse-back riding, and by various kinds of 
sports, such as cycling. In all these cases it is essential, however, 
to change the clothes and underwear which we have worn when 
perspiring, and to take a bath; for the possibility is not to be 
denied that a part of the toxic products which adhere to the 
skin after such sweating exercises may be re-absorbed, although 
we are not in a position to give exact experiments to prove such 
a supposition. 

Taking a bath and using soap and brush, and creating a 
friction until there is a red reaction of the skin, may then pre- 
vent the danger of catching cold, but after such a bath it is most 
important not to leave with a hot, red skin and opened pores, 
but to cause their contraction by a quick cold douche, continued 
at intervals until the skin is cooled and the pores thereby con- 
tracted. An energetic friction of the skin must follow before 
leaving the bathing place. 

After such a bath we shall experience a sensation of great 
comfort, and shall feel much lighter and fresher. Such baths 
should be taken frequently, at least once a week, and if we are 
very desirous of keeping a youthful appearance for a long time, 
even more frequently. In stout people, however, it is necessary 
for such baths that the muscles of the heart be not degener- 
ated; and also that there should be no serious affection of the 
heart valves or of the blood-vessels, if baths of a very high 
temperature and lasting a considerable time are indulged in. 

In cases of chronic intoxication and such like diseases of 
metabolism, such as gout, and in cases of old age, perspiration 
induced by very hot baths, providing the circulatory system is in 
good condition, should be tried and given often if the results 
prove satisfactory, as we thus obtain the benefit of the bath and 
also of the perspiration. 

The sweat baths should not exceed 1 5 to 20 minutes in dura- 
tion unless they are well borne, when a few more minutes may be 
added. In old people cold douches should not be resorted to, 
but directly after the bath they should be put to bed, which should 



Hygiene of the Skin and Kidneys. 241 

have been previously warmed by hot-water bottles. In persons 
where the processes of oxidation are diminished and the skin 
very inactive, as is the case with many aged people, such baths 
give very excellent results. 

Sweating improves the functions of the kidneys in a much 
greater degree than those of the skin. By insensible perspira- 
tion water is eliminated, together with certain harmful solid 
products which otherwise would make their way through the 
kidneys; this occurs much more so when the perspiration is 
greatly increased by sweating processes. In such cases about a 
liter of water can pass through the skin daily, and in addition a 
considerable part of the nitrogenous end-products of metabo- 
lism and of common salt. It has been discovered by Professor 
Hermann Strauss 1 that in a liter of sweat, under favorable cir- 
cumstances, fully six grammes of common salt can be removed 
from the body. Leube once found 2.31 grammes of chlorides in 
800 grammes of sweat. 

Of nitrogenous bodies, according to Strauss, about 2 
grammes can be removed through the skin daily, and according to 
Professor von. Noorden 2 only i gramme. Leube discovered, 
about thirty years ago, that the amount of nitrogen in the urine 
was 2 grammes less on such days as sweating processes had 
been used than was usual on other occasions. Kovesi and Roth- 
Schulz found 29 grammes of nitrogen and 29 grammes of com- 
mon salt in the sweat of patients suffering from Bright's disease. 
Strasser and Blumenkranz found, after electric light baths, a 
considerable increase in the elimination of common salt up to 18 
grammes, 4 grammes more than had been ingested. Nitro- 
genous bodies have also been eliminated in larger quantities than 
have been introduced, as has also more water. This has been 
proved in experiments on the effects of bathing, in which people 
with diseased kidneys have been used as the subjects. In these 
cases the elimination of common salt and nitrogenous products is 

l Deutsche Med. Wochenschrift, p. 34, 1904. 
2y. JNoorden: Pathologic des Stoffwechsel, vol. i, 1906. ' 

16 



242 Old Age Deferred. 



certainly greater than in normal individuals. Still there can be 
no doubt that with such, by perspiration and bathing, an in- 
creased elimination of these products can be obtained. 

The experiments of Roth-Schulz and Kovesi are most in- 
teresting. These authorities discovered, and before them H. 
Strauss, that the sudorific glands of nephritic patients when in 
increased activity can secrete a liquid that is more concentrated 
than the blood. Thus a compensatory action can be obtained. 
They hold that, through sweating, from 10 to 20 per cent, of the 
solids in the urine can be eliminated through the skin. 

It is also most important that they discovered a reduction 
in the molecular concentration of the blood, which, as we know, 
is increased in nephritic conditions. The frequency of sweating 
processes for persons suffering from affections of the kidneys is 
all the more indicated because such persons, generally, have a pale 
and very dry skin, the temperature of which is, as a rule, dimin- 
ished. 

To this great amelioration of the kidney functions by per- 
spiration is also due the fact that gouty patients are much 
relieved after frequent sweatings. As already mentioned we 
attribute gout to an alteration of the tissues of the kidneys, by 
which uric acid is retained. By diverting the end-products of 
the nitrogenous bodies to the skin and relieving the kidneys of 
a part of this strain, we may also improve their condition and 
thereby the gouty element. At the same time, in consequence of 
these procedures, the excretion of urine has much increased; 
and this has been going on for several days, not only after the 
bath, but after the sweating. By such an increased diuresis the 
condition of gout can also be much improved, as everything that 
improves the kidneys improves that. 

From the observations of Haig, the elimination of uric acid 
is rendered more difficult by reason of the presence of common 
salt; the increased elimination, therefore, through the skin must 
necessarily be more advantageous in the case of gouty people. 

There can be no doubt that sweating processes are of great 



Hygiene of the Skin and Kidneys. 243 

benefit, not only to the kidneys, but also to the other organs, 
such as the liver. 

We also generally observe perspiration in all processes of 
infection or intoxication, and it may therefore be regarded as a 
probable species of self-defense of the human body against the 
attacks of microbes or other toxic products, for it would seem 
that by this means nature desires spontaneously to get rid of the 
various toxic matters. Indeed, when we treat fever with salic- 
ylates we are assisting nature to this end, for we thus create per- 
spiration. As already mentioned in Chapter III, persons 
with a dry skin, who perspire but rarely, have less protection from 
infectious diseases than others. Thus everything supports the 
theory that the various toxic products, including those from 
microbes, are eliminated by perspiration. Many years ago we 
tried to find microbes in the sweat of typhoid fever patients in the 
St. Pierre Hospital in Brussels, but as has been found in the 
bacteriological laboratory of the Institute Solvay, the cultures 
that formed were due to a pollution of the perspiratory products 
with foreign microbes. The efforts of other authorities have 
also failed up to now to discover, by exact research, the presence 
of microbes in sweat, as expressive of their elimination through 
sweating. But, even if not supported by exact evidence, we feel 
inclined to believe that by perspiration in abundance a number of 
toxins of bacterial origin can be eliminated from the blood, be- 
cause in feverish ailments, after great perspiration, as in the case 
of pneumonia, a great improvement takes place in the condition of 
the patient. In former times bleeding gave similar results, per- 
haps in a greater degree; but in the present day sweating has 
superseded this. 

To the hygiene of the skin through bathing we would 
wish to add, before concluding this chapter, that carbonic acid 
baths may also give good results, as they cause a better circula- 
tion of the blood through the skin, which gets red. Such baths 
are also excellent preventatives against arteriosclerosis. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

ON EXERCISE, SWEDISH GYMNASTICS MASSAGE SPORT, AND 
WALKING AND RUNNING EXERCISE. 

ALL kinds of exercise have one essential point -to them 
they produce a contraction of the muscles. As Ludwig and his 
disciples have shown, contraction of the muscles produces an 
increased supply of blood in them; more arterial blood being 
brought to the muscles, more oxygen and heat is generated 
through them, which results in a general increase of the process 
of oxidation. 

When muscles are undergoing contraction impulses are con- 
veyed to the splanchnic nerves, which are the regulators of the 
vasomotor system. Through the irritation of these nerves, the 
blood-vessels of the internal organs supplied by the splanchnics 
contract, and more blood is despatched to the periphery of the 
body. The capillaries of the skin will be dilated, and more 
blood will also be brought to the sudorific glands ; these also ex- 
crete more water, which takes the form of sweat. Thus, by exer- 
cise that causes some exertion, abundant perspiration follows, by 
which means we can obtain the advantages we have mentioned 
in the chapter on the hygiene of the skin and kidneys; and it 
is for this reason also that we place this chapter on exercise im- 
mediately after the above-named one. 

The essential point in these exercises is that a great part 
of the circulating blood will be brought to the periphery of the 
body, and thus the congestion of the internal organs will be 
prevented or relieved. Among these organs the kidneys will 
be benefited, but only in a preventive sense, for in inflamma- 
tory conditions of the kidneys, especially in the parenchymatous 
forms, all kinds of exercise should be avoided. Besides the kid- 
(244) 



Exercise, Swedish Gymnastics. 245 

neys and other organs, the heart also may benefit by exercise if 
such be taken in moderation. The greatest benefit, especially 
for those with a diseased heart, will follow exercises carried out in 
the form of Swedish gymnastics. 

The originator of the Swedish gymnastic movements was 
Peter Ling, who gained great credit for himself and his country 
by the invention of this system, which has prolonged the life 
of many persons suffering from chronic ailments. In the 
Royal Central Institute for Gymnastics in Stockholm, and 
also in private schools in that city, many experts have been 
trained in these methods, and from thence they have spread all 
over the world, many coming to the United States, where Dr. 
S. Weir Mitchell introduced these salutary systems, and also 
massage. 

Massage was known thousands of years before Ling's 
time, notably in India, Java, and other countries of the Malayan 
race. Even the great Harvey knew the effects of massage, for 
he quotes the case of a man who, in consequence of an insult 
which he could not avenge, became so overcome with passion 
and rage that he fell into a strange disorder suffering from 
extreme compression and pain in the heart and chest, from which 
he only eventually received some relief when his chest was pum- 
meled by a powerful man just as a baker kneads dough. 1 

The essential thing in massage is the kneading of the mus- 
cles. We thus artificially increase the flow of the blood in them 
through the local irritation of the skin and the mechanical 
diffusion of the blood in the direction of the muscle. We thus 
produce artificial hyperaemia, not unlike the effects of a mus- 
tard plaster, and, in the same way as the plaster, we are also 
drawing blood from the congested organs, and especially from 
the engorged heart; thus we obtain a better distribution of the 
blood throughout the body and facilitate the action of the heart. 

It has been shown by the experiments of Sir Lauder Brun- 
ton and Tunnicliffe that kneading the muscles increases circu- 

1 Quoted after Sir Lauder Brunton, Harveyan Oration. 



246 Old Age Deferred. 



lation through them in the same manner as massage. They 
found that during such kneading the amount of venous blood 
which issued from them was sometimes diminished and sometimes 
increased ; that just after the kneading was over the flow dimin- 
ished (apparently from the blood accumulating in the muscles), 
and this diminution was again succeeded by a greatly increased 
flow. The clinical results are precisely what one would expect 
from increased circulation in the muscles, and cases apparently 
hopeless sometimes recover most wonderfully under this treat- 
ment. 

By means of massage the functions of the heart can thus 
be facilitated, for massage mechanically diminishes the resistance 
of small capillaries to the oncoming blood-waves sent from the 
heart. It mechanically quickens the circulation of the blood 
through the capillaries by dilating them in a way similar to exer- 
cise (see, also, Chapter XVIII). 

By certain massage movements applied to the exterior 
region of the heart such as vibratory massage this organ can 
also be favorably influenced ; and by kneading, friction, and mas- 
sage together applied to the periphery of the body, and by passive 
movements of the extremities, many cases of heart disease have 
been treated with good results, and premature death prevented. 
Still more thorough is the effect of such treatment if carbonic 
acid baths are used in connection with the above, as at Nau- 
heim, for such baths stimulate the skin, which becomes better 
provided with blood. We have referred to the effect of such 
baths in a previous chapter on the hygiene of the skin and kidneys 
by means of bathing. 

The Nauheim treatment affords good results in mild cases 
of arteriosclerosis, dilatation of the heart, and various other 
forms of heart disease. 

Massage is also an excellent thing in chronic diseases of 
metabolism, as it helps the resorption of waste products and 
augments the processes of oxidation; in cases of gout, obesity, 
and also diabetes, it can therefore give very good results. 



Exercise, Swedish Gymnastics. 247 

In the case also of healthy people who can afford to be 
massaged daily, vital functions can be rendered more active and 
youthfulness prolonged ; and for those who do not possess facili- 
ties for being massaged by others, they can perform it themselves 
by friction, rubbing the body at rising and just before going to 
bed. 

The Swedish movements can also be performed not only by 
free gymnastics, but also by the use of mechanical apparatus, such 
as that invented by Dr. Zander of Stockholm. These movements, 
combined with massage, also give good results in many of the 
above-mentioned ailments, but it would lead us too far to enlarge 
upon them here. 

Much more strenuous for the body than Swedish move- 
ments and massage are the exercises of sports, a complete de- 
scription of which would exceed the limits of the present work; 
but whether it be football, tennis, golf, athletics, or cycling, the 
great object in all is to easily create perspiration, by which the 
benefits described in the chapter on hygiene of the skin and 
kidneys are obtained. It goes without saying, that a dis- 
eased state of the kidneys excludes all kinds of violent exer- 
cise which require a severe bodily movement. By means of 
sport the processes of oxidation are also rendered more active, 
and thus obesity can be prevented and cured, and at the same 
time the waste products are more thoroughly consumed. Neu- 
rasthenic conditions, insomnia, etc., may be improved if the 
sport adopted does not lead to too great fatigue ; otherwise they 
may be made worse. Taking into consideration, however, the 
conditions of the circulatory mechanism, sport is a two-edged 
sword. If undertaken in moderation all sport can improve our 
physical condition; but it may prove disastrous if reason be not 
exercised and it is indulged in to excess. By the strong muscular 
exertions referred to an irritation of the splanchnic nerves takes 
place, resulting in a high blood-pressure; more blood will pass 
with greater vigor through the arteries and capillaries, which, 
consequently, become dilated. If this occurs too frequently they 



248 Old Age Deferred. 



will, as is only natural, lose their elasticity, in which case degen- 
eration of the arteries and development of arteriosclerosis may 
follow. 

When a succession of severe muscular exertions takes place 
an accumulation of blood occurs in the right side of the heart, 
and, as the right ventricle cannot empty itself, shortness of 
breath, and even death, may result. The left ventricle then be- 
comes dilated, and such dilatation of the heart not infrequently 
persists for a long time, even in persons who have been in good 
health before undertaking severe exercises. If, therefore, the 
normally healthy may suffer from an irrational indulgence in 
sport, how much more fatal must be the results to those with 
heart or kidney complaints, and with degenerative conditions of 
the blood-vessels? 

To persons of advanced age sport may be very pernicious, 
for here the elasticity of the arteries is wanting; they are more 
rigid, and consequently cannot so readily dilate. Overexertion 
in such cases may lead to the gravest results. 

As those engaged in sport lose a large quantity of fluid, 
they soon feel thirsty, and so may be inclined to make up the 
deficiency of water in the blood by partaking of alcoholic bever- 
ages, such as beer, whisky, or wine; and if such are taken in 
large quantities, necessarily further dilatation of the heart and 
blood-vessels will result, as is usual from the frequent use of 
large quantities of liquids, not taking into account the mischief 
caused to the various organs by the alcohol. As a general form 
of exercise sport in moderation can be beneficial to the heart. 
Naunyn has shown that blood-pressure falls from continuous 
exercise, and Masey has also demonstrated this on galloping 
horses. The best form of exercise is walking or moderate 
climbing. Moritz has shown that after exercise the volume of 
the heart is diminished, and the rate of the pulse increased. 

There are certain sports which do not require great 
bodily exertion, and these are, in consequence, less harmful to 
the heart. Take, for example, horseback riding, which produces a 



Exercise, Swedish Gymnastics. 249 

more or less accentuated rhythmic shaking movement of the bodjr* 
In a particular style of riding called "the English trot," the body 
rises and falls at regular intervals, which causes as we noted 
in our own person free perspiration; the circulation, especially 
in the abdominal organs and lower extremities, is also pro- 
moted. We consider riding to be one of the most beneficial 
kinds of exercise. We frequently note the healthy appearance 
of horseback riders (except jockeys, who are underfed in their 
training). A well-known member of the medical faculty in Ber- 
lin, a world-renowned specialist, was a great horseman. He took 
part in the last Medical Congress in Dresden, coming on horse- 
back through the pouring rain from Berlin. Possibly his good 
health was due to the vigorous exercise of which he was so fond. 
By a strange irony of fate, this enthusiastic admirer of riding 
died in consequence of an accident caused by his automobile a 
short time ago. 

In certain kinds of sport, such as riding and cycling, the 
greater possibility of accidents is a drawback, and in nervous 
individuals serious traumatic neurosis, and often diabetes, may 
sometimes develop, particularly in those cases where such people 
are descended from diabetic parents. We published a case of this 
kind some years ago. For such people this kind of exercise 
should be prohibited, especially in those descended from diabetic 
parents. Cycling has the additional drawback, according to 
Zunz, that from it fatigue is not so soon felt, and thus overin- 
dulgence may more easily occur. 

Less injurious than sport, and much easier to be performed, 
is walking exercise. As walking on the level does not necessitate 
great exertion, unless performed rapidly, it can give good results 
if continued for a considerable distance. It is desirable to walk 
as much as possible, and never to use a street car or a carriage 
unless pressed for time; by this means health may be greatly 
improved. In walking especially the muscles of the lower ex- 
tremities are contracted, and at the same time the circulation is 
improved, the more so, of course, in the lower extremities, but 



250 Old Age Deferred. 



also in other parts of the body; and this is still more the case 
when we walk briskly. For those possessing a good circulatory 
mechanism, it is always advisable to walk briskly, thus indulging 
in a healthy and practical and muscular exercise ; and for such, also, 
running for a few minutes several times daily is excellent, as 
perspiration can thus be created, whereby harmful products are 
eliminated from the body. This latter exercise is more suited to 
those living in the country, or if in cities, to those who have a 
garden or large yard. 

It is advisable not to run too fast, as such would cause severe 
exertion with bad effects upon the heart ; but if undertaken at all 
it should only be for a minute or so. Running at a moderate 
speed, breathing deeply and rhythmically at the same time, and 
with rhythmical, rather short steps, can be kept up even for 
eight to ten minutes without any particular harm to the circu- 
latory system. Personally we used to do this, and often, when 
the thermometer stood below zero, without hat or overcoat, 
finishing thoroughly warm and comfortable. Standing still after 
running, when so attired, might lead to catching cold, but run- 
ning out of the house and back again without stopping causes no 
such risk, even in a strong wind, as we have personally proven. 
Such running may best be done three times a day, before break- 
fast, dinner, and supper, as this running in and out of the garden 
is the best of appetizers, and is far more beneficial than drugs for 
those men and women who sit about all day and complain of 
want of appetite. Such running practice is only good for those 
who have sound blood-vessels, heart and kidneys. Deep regular 
breathing while exercising is also indispensable. 

Walking up a hill will naturally require greater exertion 
than walking on the level, and may be more beneficial to the 
health than sports conducted to a similar degree. At first the 
blood-pressure will increase, but it will afterward decrease. 
Deeper respirations will have to be taken, so that a larger supply 
of oxygen will be brought to the lungs and tissues. 

Climbing high mountains should be strictly forbidden per- 



Exercise, Swedish Gymnastics. 251 

sons suffering from disease of the heart and arteriosclerosis, 
for the greater exertion then required has often caused death 
in persons so afflicted. To prevent the bad circulatory effects 
of climbing it is necessary to breathe deeply and regularly, and 
this, indeed, should not be overlooked in all forms of exercises; 
even masseurs are unable to work properly unless they take deep 
regular breathing. 

In mild cases of heart trouble, and even in more serious 
cases if applied judiciously, Oertel's treatment of each day slowly 
walking up a steeper and steeper hill will give good results, giving 
good training for the heart muscle. But this treatment should 
only be carried out under the direction of a competent specialist. 

The great advantage of the various kinds of sport and of 
walking, climbing, and running exercise is that several other 
agencies can be combined with them that are very important in 
the treatment and prevention of the effects of old age. These 
are fresh air and sunshine. We think that the combination of 
the three agencies exercise, fresh air, and sunshine is the best 
and most necessary means for the preservation of youthfulness 
and for the prolongation of life. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

A FEW REMARKS ON COLD FEET THEIR CAUSE AND 
TREATMENT. 

IT is intentional that we present this chapter immediately 
after those on the improvement of the functions of the skin and 
on exercise, as these are the principal means by which, as a 
general rule, we are able to prevent cold feet. 

These are, for the most part, occasioned by an insufficient 
supply of arterial blood to the extremities. This can be caused 
either by a hindrance to the circulation as for example in the 
case of irrational use of articles of clothing or through the 
want of muscular contraction by exercise. In old people, 
especially, cold feet can be occasioned by the degenerative altera- 
tions of the blood-vessels, in consequence of which less arterial 
blood reaches the feet. If to this anatomical cause there are 
other factors added, then naturally the sensation of cold feet will 
much more easily result. We must bear in mind that the feet, 
like the nose also, are the most distant parts of the body from the 
center of the circulatory system the heart, so that naturally in 
these parts, through the less effective warmth of the arterial 
blood in old people, and even in younger anaemic women, the 
sensation of cold will easily arise. 

Cold feet through irrational clothing can be caused by using 
garters or thick footwear with tight shoes, owing to the circu- 
lation of the blood being thus impeded in the lower extremities. 
It is of no use to wear the thickest woolen socks or stockings as a 
protection against cold feet, which should serve to retain the 
natural warmth of the feet, and then to prevent this warmth be- 
ing given off, this latter resulting in the sensation of cold feet. 
But how can this thick footwear retain the heat, the generation 
of which it prevents by mechanically compressing the blood- 
vessels and thus rendering the influx of warm blood impossible? 
(252) 



Cold Feet. 253 



It is also useless to wear thick socks if there be no layer 
of air between them and the skin, which layer is the best means 
of retaining warmth, as mentioned in the chapter on the hygiene 
of the skin in connection with rational clothing. Neither 
the footwear nor the shoes must, therefore, be close fitting. 
Many people wear such tight-fitting socks or stockings, and boots 
or shoes, that the pattern of the socks is impressed on the feet, 
in which case of course it need cause no surprise if they complain 
of cold feet in spite of the thickness of their socks or stockings. 

As already mentioned in the chapter on hygienic clothing, 
it would be preferable to wear thin wool of the best quality and 
low half-shoes; when so clad we will not suffer from cold feet 
if we take exercise. The writer of this book wears such even 
in winter, in which season he puts on gaiters only when the tem- 
perature is below 20 F. On some very cold days he might 
feel cold in them, but then only in the morning, for after a 
brisk walk, or better, after a smart run (see previous chap- 
ter) the cold sensation disappears for the rest of the day. 

Exercise is, as a rule, the best preventative against, and the 
best method of treatment for, cold feet, as it is through the 
muscular contraction produced by walking or running that heat 
is generated, as explained in the previous chapter on exercise. 

Rubbing and massage of the feet will produce results 
similar to those obtained by exercise, and are still more effective 
if supplemented by walking. 

When we sit still our body will naturally cool off. It is 
therefore a good plan to make circular or other movements with 
the feet and not allow them to remain still if we feel cold in 
them. 

While residing as a guest with an elderly lady, the head 
of an aristocratic Dutch family, I observed her putting her feet 
on a silver warming utensil, in which her footman constantly 
burnt a little oil lamp, in order to keep her feet warm. I told 
her she could easily dispense with this if she would make up her 
mind to take exercise on foot instead of driving in her luxurious 



254 Old Age Deferred. 



carriage, and not confine herself to merely walking from one 
room to another. 

Defective circulation of the blood to the feet can not only 
result in cold feet, but also in very serious ailments, and even in a 
shortening of the ordinary span of life. Thus, in consequence of 
a deficient influx of arterial blood and the stagnation of the 
venous circulation, especially in old people with sclerotic changes 
of the blood-vessels, a very trying and long-continued ulceration 
of the feet may result. By bringing more arterial blood to the 
feet and causing hypersemia, according to Bier, we can cure this 
condition. 

Still more serious consequences may be brought about by 
defective circulation in the feet, and especially in the toes, in 
the form of senile gangrene, which is far more frequently found 
in diabetic persons, and sometimes even before the com- 
mencement of old age. In cases of arteriosclerosis, where cold 
feet are the consequence of defective blood-supply owing to arte- 
rial degeneration, iodides together with thyroid extracts will be 
found successful. They produce a dilation of the blood-vessels, 
diminish the viscosity of the blood, and thus produce the sen- 
sation of heat. The method of application will be found in the 
chapter on the treatment of old age by organic extracts. 

As the promotion of a hygienic condition is an excellent 
preventative against cold feet and also excellent for their treat- 
ment we repeat again that a foot-bath should be used daily in 
such cases, and not only warm, but also cold water should be used 
therein. Cold water acts as already mentioned as a stimulant 
when applied as a foot-bath ; but it should only be used for a very 
short time, after which energetic rubbing of the feet will produce 
active circulation and the feeling of warmth in them. We recom- 
mend for cold feet to rub them with a cold wet towel, then to 
pour over them a little eau de cologne or alcohol, and again rub 
them till they begin to become red ; we must next move the toes 
forward and backward twenty or thirty times with our hand. 
We will then feel in the feet a sensation of agreeable warmth. 



CHAPTER XXX. 
ON THE BENEFITS OF SUNLIGHT. 

IT is a matter of everyday observation that when we leave 
plants in a room, where no sunshine can penetrate, they lose 
their color and soon show quantities of parasites. Similar changes 
occur in persons who live in dark rooms and seldom come into the 
sunlight. They become pale, and are liable to all kinds of bacil- 
lary infections, especially tuberculosis. An Italian proverb says, 
very justly, "Dove no viene il sole viene il medico'* "Where 
comes no sun, the physician is coming," and a German proverb 
again says, "Auf die schattige seiteder strasse kommf der 
Leichenwagen doppelt so oft, als auf die sonnige," which means 
in English, "The funeral coach turns twice as often on the 
shady side of the street as on the sunny side," which saying, 
like most proverbs, contains much truth. 

We often notice that on days when there is no sunshine espe- 
cially when at the same time it is cold and damp, we feel de- 
pressed in mind. In such an atmosphere there is a diminution 
of the respiratory and transpiratory functions of the skin, and, 
in consequence, a retention of toxic products. On the other 
hand, on sunny and dry days these functions are facilitated, and 
there is less work to be thrown upon the kidneys. Such a rest 
does good to an organ that is almost constantly at work, and 
is a wise economy for the days of old age. It is astonishing how 
sunshine can influence our mental condition. We feel better 
able to work, and also to take out-door exercise, on sunny days. 
Particularly in old age is sunshine precious, and we see our old 
house dog and our cat lying in the sunshine and taking a sun 
bath. In the same way, instinct tells old people that the sun is 
good for them, and thus they eagerly watch for it to shine, and 
like to sit in it, especially on cold days. 

(256) 



256 Old Age Deferred. 



It has been shown by exact researches that the sun's rays 
can kill bacteria, and statistics have shown that in sunny weather 
there are fewer infectious diseases, like influenza, than in dull 
weather. In sunshine there are two elements which possess anti- 
toxic and healing properties: light and warmth. Its light is 
made use of in the treatment of certain infectious diseases, like 
lupus (Finsen treatment). Both these properties can be used 
to great advantage in the sun-bath treatment. Lying in the sun 
for a certain length of time causes a dilatation of the blood-vessels 
and, later on, abundant perspiration. 

The ancient Romans made use of the therapeutic action 
of sunshine, and many of them took sun-baths on the roofs of 
their houses. There were also public sun-baths, much visited 
by the population. The ancient physicians recognized the value 
of sunshine in the treatment of various ailments. According to 
Hippocrates, the sun-bath augments transpiration and makes 
us more resistant against disease, giving us more strength. 
Celsus also advised its use in nervous diseases. 

Certain people have undertaken scientific experiments on 
animals to prove the great effects of light. Moleschott, the 
great physiologist, found that the embryos of frogs gave off 
far more carbonic acid under the influence of light than when 
they were in the dark. The stronger the light the more carbonic 
acid was given off. Edwards found that such embryos could not 
develop at all in the dark. 

Very important was the discovery of Arloing, 1 and also of 
Duclaux, 2 that the growth of bacteria when exposed to the sun 
is checked, and that later on they will even be killed. This is 
mainly due to the action of blue and ultra-violet rays. 

The chemical action of sunlight is exercised by the blue 
and ultra-violet rays (Finsen), and the heat comes mainly from 
the red rays. From our point of view, however, the chemical 
rays play the more important part. 

1 Arloing: C. R. de 1'Academie des Sciences, p. 378 et 511, Paris, 1885. 

2 Duclaux: Revue Scient., 1887. 



Benefits of Sunlight. 257 

When we sit in the sun for a long time and get an inflamed 
skin, this is due mainly to the chemical rays. This fact was 
established by Charcot on the basis of clinical observations. 
Charcot's work has been confirmed by the researches of Wid- 
mark, and especially by the exact experiments of the famous 
Danish physician, Niels Finsen, 3 in 1906. The latter showed 
that when strong light killed bacteria, this was due to the 
action of the chemical rays alone, and, specifically, to the ultra- 
violet rays. He also showed that these are the rays which pro- 
duce dilatation of the blood-vessels and an inflammatory condi- 
tion of the skin. 

To the red cheeks of those people who pass much time in 
the open air and sun, we can compare, as a contrast, the pale 
faces with a greenish hue of those who live in the dark, like polar 
explorers. If strong light dilates the blood-vessels, and sends 
much blood to the periphery of the body, thus promoting the 
insensible perspiration and metabolism, on the other hand, in 
the long night of the arctic regions there is contraction of the 
blood-vessels, and the blood is kept back in the interior of the 
body, with the retention of excretory products. It has been 
shown by Oerum, 4 through experiments on animals, that the 
quantity of their blood and its percentage of haemoglobin is 
dependent upon the light. They are reduced in the darkness 
and increased in the light. Through a light bath the quantity 
of blood was increased 25 per cent, within four hours. 
Finsen 5 has also found, through examination of twenty-nine 
persons, that there is less haemoglobin in the blood in winter 
than in summer, due to the lack of sunlight in winter. Grawitz 
and Graffenberger have seen a diminution of the haemoglobin, 
as also of the quantity of the whole blood, in animals which were 
kept in the dark. Marti found that the red blood corpuscles are 



3 Finsen : "Om anvendelsen af concentrerede chemiske Lysstraaler/ 
Kjobenhavn, 1896. 

4 Oerum : Pflviger's Archiv. f. d. g. Physiologic, vol. cxiv. 

5 Hospitalstidende, p. 1209 and 1239, 1894. 

17 



258 Old Age Deferred. 



diminished in such animals, but become augmented when they 
are again exposed for a time to the sunshine. 

We should aim to get our share of direct sunlight in the 
open air, for, as Finsen has shown, the valuable chemical rays of 
the sun are excluded by glass; and, after all, it is not warmth 
alone we seek, but also the chemical and anti-bacterial action of 
the sunlight, together with its effects upon the blood-vessels and 
nervous system. 

To absorb as much of the active rays as possible, it is best 
to wear light or light blue or light gray clothing, which allows 
the sun's rays to pass, whereas dark cloth does not, as found by 
Boubnoff and Lenkey. The rays of the sun are always valuable, 
but their action varies with the altitude. Thus, the higher the 
altitude and the rarer the atmosphere, the more efficacious will 
be the action of the sun's rays. In lower altitudes the rays have 
to pass through dense strata of air filled with vapors of carbonic 
acid and dust, and thus much of their strength is lost. As 
Prof. Mohn 6 says in his book on "Meteorology": "The rays 
of the sun in transit meet always denser and denser air, which 
contains large quantities of vapor, carbonic acid, and dust. A 
part of their strength is absorbed by the substances contained 
in the air, and these, as well as the air, are heated. Hereby some 
of the power of the sunshine gets lost, as the rays of the sun 
are reflected off these substances. Furthermore, they pass 
through clouds. Hence the rays of the sun lose more and more 
of their strength before they reach the earth." 

It is also an important fact that the higher the altitude, the 
more numerous are the chemical rays of the sun which have 
the greatest heating properties. In high localities sunshine con- 
tains much more of the blue and ultra-violet rays, whose won- 
derful action upon the red blood-corpuscles has been shown by 
the experiments of Niels Finsen. 7 Not only on the blood, but 
also on the nerves, they exercise a tonic action. As Niels Finsen 



6 Mohn: Quoted after Holm, Nbrsh Magazin. Laege, W. 6, 1906. 
TMeddelelser fra Finsen's "Chemiske Lysinstitut," Kjobenhavn, 1899. 



Benefits of Sunlight. 259 

has shown, it is due to these blue and violet rays that insects 
regain their vitality as soon as the sun shines. As Dr. Holm 
says, it is probably due to these rays that the quantity of red 
blood-corpuscles and of haemoglobin is increased at altitudes 
of 500 or 600 meters above the sea level, as found by Viault 8 and 
Mintz. 9 

As a logical consequence of the above, we must try to enjoy 
sunshine on mountains, or on the terraces of high buildings, as 
there can be no doubt but that sunshine is more beneficial in such 
places. In high altitudes sunshine is far more warming than 
lower down, probably due to the fact that the sun's rays pass 
fewer strata with vapor and foreign substances, and thus less 
of their warmth is absorbed. Thus we can explain the observa- 
tions that, by exposure for a certain time to the rays of the sun 
on the top of high mountains in mid-winter, erythematous or 
eczematous eruptions were produced. At such great heights the 
air is usually very dry, and so there is less loss of heat from 
the body. Therefore we can sit comfortably in the sun at such 
heights without an overcoat, even in winter, whereas several 
hundred meters lower down we should feel cold even with an 
overcoat on, especially in a coast climate. 

Let us be grateful for every ray of sunshine and take ad- 
vantage of it. Some ladies avoid the sun, but it would be wiser 
to seek it and, if possible, to expose our whole bodies to its rays. 
Let us remove all the curtains from the rooms in which we sleep 
or sit, especially from our work room. In the train let us 
sit on the sunny side, and not draw the curtain unless we are 
reading; in short, let us seek the sun wherever it shines. We 
shall soon observe how much better we feel after a long sojourn 
in the sun. We have often been surprised at the appearance of 
patients whom we have sent for a holiday to the Riviera in Egypt 
or to other sunny places. Thus we have often seen pale patients 
come back rosy-cheeked and flourishing, and in our own case we 

8 Viault: C.R. Acad. Sciences, p. 917, 1890 and p. 295, 1891. 
Mintz: C.R. Acad. Sciences, p. 298, 1891. 



260 'Old Age Deferred. 



have observed the same thing after staying in California, Arizona, 
Mexico, and Florida for several weeks. There is no denying that, 
as a rule, those who spend much time in the sun look better and 
healthier than those who live in dark rooms or offices. It 
must be understood that we are talking about sunshine at a 
moderate temperature. But even a somewhat higher tempera- 
ture, with sunshine, can do no harm, especially to persons suf- 
fering from chronic kidney trouble. In old age, as in other 
conditions of athyroidia, we often find chronic interstitial nephri- 
tis and sluggish kidney functions. Therefore we should relieve 
the kidneys of any overwork and make the skin do more, which 
can be accomplished by warm sunshine. Old people, if their 
means allow it, should never be left to pass a winter in cold cli- 
mates, but should be sent to warm sunny climates like the Riviera, 
Egypt, or California or Florida in America. They require as 
much sunshine as possible. Americans may use with great profit 
the climatological charts of Dr. Charles Denison, of Denver, 
Colo., which show with great exactness those parts of America 
where the greatest number of sunny days occur. 

Against old age sunlight should be regarded as an excel- 
lent protection. It safeguards our kidney functions by promot- 
ing skin activity, and it aids the processes of metabolism. It is 
best used in combination with exercise, like riding or some form 
of sport, and a daily sun bath. It is our belief that, by such 
means, both youth and life may be prolonged. 

The wonderful effects of sunshine are illustrated by an in- 
teresting experiment of Benjamin Franklin. According to> Hufe- 
land 10 this savant had received wine from Madeira which he was 
putting into bottles on his Pennsylvania estate. In this wine he 
found a few flies, which were apparently dead. The sharp-minded 
savant put these flies in the July sun of the hot Pennsylvania 
climate, and before long the life that had been so long interrupted 
appeared again. The flies became lively and soon flew away. 



lOHuf eland: "Makrobiotik," p. 129. 



Benefits of Sunlight. 261 

They thus showed the same reaction to the beneficent effects of 
sunshine as the insects in the above-mentioned experiment of 
Niels Finsen. The fly is a most objectionable animal, but it 
possesses one good trait that reconciles me to its existence; and 
that is that it is so fond of the sunlight that it may thereby 
serve as an example to those foolish people who do their best to 
avoid it. 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

ON THE ADVANTAGES OF AN OPEN AIR LIFE AND OF BREATHING 

EXERCISES. 

WHEN we note the faces of persons who, by reason of their 
occupations, pass their lives in the open air, such as peasants, 
gardeners, etc., we usually find them healthy and fresh-look- 
ing, and looking more youthful than their actual age. This 
is especially so in the case of their wives and daughters, who are 
more exempt from certain injurious habits, such as smoking, 
and are less addicted to other harmful agencies, like alcohol. 
Their fresh rosy faces speak in eloquent terms of the benefits of 
fresh country air. 

On the other hand we see that others, whose daily avoca- 
tions compel them to stay all day in a close atmosphere, very 
frequently look pale and sickly. Among such persons, as ob- 
servation shows, infectious diseases are frequent, and especially 
tuberculosis. This disease most frequently develops in persons 
who pass all their time in close places, especially when they are 
poorly fed at the same time. We can trace this plainly in the 
working classes in certain European countries where, in Vienna, 
for instance, until the past several years, about 70 per cent, of the 
total mortality was due to tuberculosis. 

If we now take such tuberculous persons and place them in 
a hospital or sanatorium and subject them to the open air treat- 
ment, compelling them to pass all their time exposed to the fresh 
air, both day and night, we soon witness a marvelous change. 
Their appearance is improved, and also their appetite; and after 
a time in most of the cases there will be an increase in bodily 
weight. We thus see that the open air produces wonderful 
effects in such persons, who, as a rule, have been immured in 
close places, they shattering their health. 
(262) 



Open Air Life and Breathing Exercises. 263 

We have thus witnessed the clinical demonstration of the 
fact that fresh air is able to improve our health. Fresh air con- 
tains much oxygen, and this is a most indispensable substance, 
for without it we cannot live. The red corpuscles in the blood 
which, loaded with carbonic acid, the veins convey to the lungs, 
eagerly absorb the oxygen from the air that we inhale and then 
convey it to the tissues to satisfy their requirements for this 
precious substance. 

By absorbing oxygen the elimination of carbonic acid is 
at the same time facilitated. The greater the number of red 
blood corpuscles that comes to the surface of the lungs the greater 
will be the volume of oxygen which is taken into the system, and 
afterwards the larger will be the volume of carbonic acid gas 
expelled. Thus in the lungs there takes place a distintoxication 
of the organisms, and, according to certain authorities, the cells 
of the lungs are co-operating in this process in a manner analo- 
gous to the internal secretion by the cells of other glandular 
structures. 

The more fresh air, i.e., the more oxygen we get into our 
lungs, the more we can contribute to the processes of oxidation 
in the tissues. When the processes of circulation and of breath- 
ing are checked, and when insufficient oxygen is absorbed, we 
soon see a very important change for the worse in the condition 
of such persons, as exemplified by cases of heart and lung trouble. 

Given the great importance of oxygen, we must try by every 
means to get as much of it into our lungs as possible; we shall 
get more of it from air that is not stagnating, but always in cir- 
culation. When we are in a closed room, after a certain time we 
absorb all the oxygen in it, particularly when there are several 
persons present who are sharing with us the oxygen in the air. 

Staying for a long time in air so vitiated that it contains but 
little oxygen and much carbonic acid and many rnicrobes exhaled 
by the others, we are liable to reap the disadvantages we have 
set forth in the chapter on the dangers of a close room. Accord- 
ing to Pettenkofer, the exhalations from the persons present in a 



264 Old Age Deferred. 



close room are much more noxious than the carbonic acid gas. 
We, therefore, open the window and door in order to create a cur- 
rent of fresh air, and so allow the oxygen to be renewed. In 
this we but imitate nature, which sends a wind to purify the 
close atmosphere on warm summer days. This is natural 
ventilation. 

If we want to preserve our youth for a long time and attain 
an old age, we must take all available means to avoid such air 
contaminated by billions of microbes and vitiated by the exhala- 
tion of so many human beings and animals, who also absorb 
much of the oxygen. To this is added the smoke from the 
numerous manufactories, houses, and plants, and the dust and 
exhalations from many noxious substances of various kinds. As, 
however, fortunately, all this vitiated air is generally found in the 
lower strata, always endeavor to find a lodging in the more 
elevated portions of the city, and on the highest floor possible if 
staying in an apartment house or in a hotel. If possible our 
houses should be built on the outskirts of the city, and preferably 
near a park, or wood, or at least a meadow where there is a free 
circulation of pure air. 

In our rooms, and especially in the sleeping room, the win- 
dow, or at any rate the transom, should always stand open, 
and if possible also during the night. But when obliged to sleep 
in a room with a closed window to avoid the noise of the street 
traffic, the first thing to do in the morning, directly one gets up, 
is to open the window and let in the fresh air, and do not close 
the window again until night-time. When we are well covered 
we need not be afraid of catching cold. As a rule only those 
take cold who keep in a warm room and live at enmity with fresh 
air. Fresh air, as a matter of fact, never does any harm to its 
friends; it is only dangerous to its enemies. As Captain Svaer- 
drup, a member of Nansen's expedition to the North Pole, told 
us, he and his comrades never suffered from 1 colds as long as they 
were in the polar regions. They first caught them when they 
approached Christiania, 



Open Air Life and Breathing Exercises. 265 

When standing at the window inhale the fresh air deeply 
several times and retain it as long as possible before exhaling it. 

Indeed we could preserve our health much more effectively 
if we imitated the Indian and slept in the open air. It is a fact 
that many Indians possess great immunity to all kinds of 
fatigue, enjoy very robust health, and reach a green old age. 
This is undoubtedly due to the fact that they pass the whole 
of their life in the open air. When tuberculous people are 
kept under the free-air treatment we are, after all, only follow- 
ing the example of the red man. Nobody who is accustomed to 
live in a close room with heavy curtains at an average tem- 
perature of 75 to 80 from October to May, can imagine the 
pleasures of a wooden hut or tent for day and night use. When 
Dr. Pottenger, of the Monrovia Sanatorium, near Los Angeles, 
California, showed me around his little wooden cottages in which 
his patients lived, I simply envied them. I cannot imagine a 
more healthy dwelling-place than a tent in summer and a wooden 
hut in winter, with a stove in it for the cold weather; and if we 
cannot raise the heat over 75, so much the better. 

The son of a family in England, who are great friends of 
mine, has formed a resolution not to sleep any longer in the 
comfortable family mansion, but in a tent in the meadows of 
his property during both winter and summer. His family and 
friends regarded this as an eccentricity, against which they 
warned him ; but still he got on very well in his tent, and looks 
fresher and healthier than ever before. We are always put down 
as eccentric if we have the courage to resist the foolish preju- 
dices of our surroundings. For my part I prefer to live to 
be 100, and to attain this I do not object to be considered 
"eccentric." 

Anyone who is anxious to live long and preserve his youth 
should endeavor to spend as much time as possible in the open 
air. After the day's work is finished we should always get out 
into the air, preferably in a park or wood adjacent to our home, 
where there is more oxygen contained in the .air. We should 



266 Old Age Deferred. 



follow the example of those English people who leave town on 
Saturday and remain in the country until Monday, leaving be- 
hind them the cares of business. There is probably no nation 
which likes exercise in the open air so much as the English, 
Scotch, and Irish, and among them is to be found the greatest 
longevity. An agreeable way to get plenty of fresh air is by 
automobiling, and for those whose means can afford it long 
journeys by automobile may constitute an excellent fresh air 
cure, as they tend to improve the appetite, produce sleep, and 
relieve neurasthenic conditions in general. But automobiling can 
only be considered as a hygienic means for longevity when the 
speed does not exceed twenty to twenty-five miles an hour. 

When in the country we should always prefer mountains, 
and the higher they are the purer is the air and the more oxygen 
does it contain, as a rule. At the same time very much depends 
also on the presence of forests, especially of pines and fir trees. 
High mountains with such arborization generally have pure 
fresh air full of oxygen, and there is np drug in pharmacy 
that can equal this in its beneficial effects. It is a fact, estab- 
lished by leading physiologists, that persons living on mountains 
have more red blood-corpuscles than those living in the plains. 
When patients are sent to spots so elevated in the air as moun- 
tains with forests, we find them, as a rule, looking healthy 
and fresh when they return from their holiday in the fresh air. 

As found by A. and Y. Loewy and Luntz, 1 mountain air 
improves the processes of oxidation and increases the number 
and depth of the respirations. All this, however, according to 
these savants, is the result of the exciting action of the sunshine. 
It speaks volumes for the health-giving properties of moun- 
tain air that the inhabitants of such spots, especially in Scotland, 
Switzerland, and Norway, have such fresh rosy cheeks. These 
we notice more particularly among the females, especially in 
young girls who are freer from the agencies harmful to good 



1 Quoted after Landois : "Lehrbuch der Physiologie des Menschen," Berlin, 
Wien, 1905, eleventh edition, p. 235. 



Open Air Life and Breathing Exercises. 267 

health, such as alcohol, sexual excesses, etc. In Norway almost 
all the young girls have fresh red cheeks, for which, indeed, 
they are noted, due to the delightful air on its mountains and 
forests, with which the whole land is almost covered. 

I had the opportunity of proving for myself, after spending 
a certain time in a resort on the top of a mountain in Norway, the 
delightful purity and invigorating quality of the air, which was 
due to the large amount of oxygen. As a confrere expressed it, 
there was champagne in the air! It was not soiled here by any 
manufacturing plant, the curse of so many places with fine air. 
Norway, one of the most extensive countries in Europe, has at the 
same time a very small population, only about two millions, and 
very few factories, so that the air is not polluted either by a 
dense population or by the smoke of manufactories. Scotland, 
with its highlands, has also a similar air, and the color of the 
Scotch lassies is not far behind their Norwegian sisters. This 
can be admitted as a scientific argument for the relations of 
health in the country. 

But Americans need not travel so far. There is as good a 
climate and wonderfully fresh air in the Rocky Mountains, and 
also in other highly elevated places, of which America can boast 
many more than Europe. But whether there or in Europe it 
would be necessary to give up all occupations for a few months, 
or at least for several weeks after every six months. This time 
we should pass in those elevated places where we can climb every 
day; climbing presents an excellent opportunity to get much 
fresh air into our lungs, as we are then obliged to take much 
deeper inspirations, thereby obtaining more oxygen from the 
pure air of the mountains. As we shall show in the next chapter, 
exercise combined with fresh air is of the greatest importance 
to our health and chances for a long life and a green old age. 

But in order to get plenty of air it is not indispensable to go 
to forests or mountains or to the seaside ; we can also get it at 
home, although not with the same amount of oxygen. To 
absorb much air we must breathe deeply and keep in the 



268 Old Age Deferred. 



inspired air, and endeavor to get it into all parts of the lungs. 
In ordinary life we forget this and we get just as much air 
into us with our superficial breathing as is necessary to keep us 
alive and to feel no harm from our want of air. Most people 
breathe only superficially, and only inspire deeper when mounting 
the staircase, unless, indeed, they adopt the less healthy habit of 
reaching the first floor by the elevator. But as it is of apparent 
benefit to us to get as much air into our lungs as possible, we im- 
prove this state of affairs by breathing exercises. The great im- 
portance of these breathing exercises for the prolongation of 
human life has been especially insisted on by Sir Herman Weber. 2 
But before him, Hamel and Harry Campbell 3 had already demon- 
strated the great therapeutic results of respiratory exercises. 
Sir Herman Weber recommends commencing with moderately 
deep inspirations and expirations, continued during from three to 
five minutes once or twice a day, and then gradually increasing to 
ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. The depth of each inspira- 
tion and expiration, and the duration of holding the breath, are 
to be increased only gradually. Sir Herman Weber advises in- 
spiring in an erect position, with raised arms and closed mouth, 
bending the body forward during expiration so that the fingers 
touch the ground or the toes. 

According to this authority, besides the influence on the cir- 
culation, the respiratory movements keep up the nutrition and 
efficiency of the lungs, and also maintain the elasticity of the 
chest walls, which are apt to become stiff in old age and thus 
interfere with the free action of the lungs and pleura. 

These respiratory exercises can also be performed in a 
sitting or horizontal position. 

According to Sir Lauder Brunton, the deep respiratory 
movements act as a kind of massage to the lungs, thoracic 
walls, pericardium, and heart. 

Sir Herman Weber mentions that he has seen persons who 



. tit. 

3 Dr. Harry Campbell on "Respiratory Exercise in the Treatment of Disease," 
London, 1907. 



Open Air Life and Breathing Exercises. 269 

get out of breath, even after short walks and climbs, and who 
for this reason abstained from such, and consequently suffered 
in health and spirits, become, by means of these movements, 
active walkers and climbers, gaining improvement in every 
function of the body, and outliving by many years their 
brothers and sisters who had not practiced them. He also spe- 
cially recommends these breathing exercises to literary workers, 
statesmen, professional men, and others who get no time to take 
the usual methods of exercise. 

In certain heart troubles for example, dilatation of the 
heart these movements are contraindicated. 

It is natural that if we practice these exercises in the 
fresh air of the forests or mountains their salutary action will 
be still more pronounced. But if we are too indolent to per- 
form the regular breathing exercises, whose beneficial effect upon 
the heart's nutrition and action is so great, it will suffice for 
us to take deep inspirations and expirations while walking. We 
must get into the habit of doing this every day, and thus prolong 
our life. 

As a general rule we only breathe with one part of our 
lungs, sadly neglecting the other, by which the aeration of the 
blood will not be so thorough. Independently even of the breath- 
ing exercises, it would be very advantageous to our health if we 
gently took a long breath, which should be so prolonged that we 
feel our stomach distended. The air will thus reach the deeper 
portions of our lungs. This will also be the best practice while 
singing; indeed, the latter would be the very best of ways in 
which to obtain a good and thorough aeration of the lungs. 
We have heard of cases where people without a voice have 
taken singing lessons, for the simple reason that they were 
descended from families in which tuberculosis was hereditary. 

This latter disease is one of the most frequent causes of a 
shortened existence, and it is, therefore, our duty to point out 
here the great advantages not only of a generous diet, consisting 
of a certain amount of underdone fresh meat, uncooked ,milk 



270 Old Age Deferred. 



of healthy cows or goats, and many eggs, sausages and puddings 
made of the blood of pigs (see Chapter XXXIX), but also of 
regular deep breathing, thereby permitting of the entry of oxygen 
to all parts of the lungs. 

We always recommend breathing through the nose, as 
doing so through the mouth dries up the mucous membranes, 
especially if throughout the night, during sleep, the mouth is 
kept open. This bad habit permits of the entrance of cold air 
which, not being warmed by passing through the nasal passages, 
may be injurious to the lungs. The Indians are fully cognizant 
of this fact, for in some tribes the mother binds up the mouth 
of her child and thus compels it to breathe through the nose. 

In the foregoing we have shown the great advantages of 
abundant fresh air. We have referred to the fresh appearance 
of country people, especially of those who live on mountains, as 
also to the improved condition of tuberculous persons after having 
been exposed to as much fresh air as possible. I ask, therefore, 
why, if people suffering from this disease derive so much bene- 
fit from fresh air, should not we, who are still healthy, be also 
benefited by it? Let us therefore remain in the open air as much 
as possible, and never prevent its close approach to us; for it 
gives health, long youth, and a good old age. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 

ON THE DANGERS OF LIVING IN CONFINED AND ILL 
VENTILATED QUARTERS. 

PERSONS in the enjoyment of complete health and vigor are 
frequently very sensitive to recognize the different agencies 
deleterious to their health. In the same way as animals they 
possess a certain instinct in this respect. In fact it is by this 
faculty alone that they can enjoy a normal and robust health, 
as they are thus enabled to avoid all kinds of dangers to their 
health, the integrity of their healthy mind also giving them the 
necessary will power for this purpose. 

Against all sorts of dangers to their health such persons, as 
a rule, are prompt to act; thus, when they come into a close 
room the air will soon become offensive to them, and they will 
either leave or ask for the opening of a window or of a venti- 
lator, closed through folly. On the other hand sickly persons, 
or people who do not otherwise enjoy perfect health or well- 
balanced minds, will remain in such a vicious air and contract all 
the dangers consequent to it, shortening their prospects for a 
healthy youth and long life. 

That living in the vitiated air of a close room is deleterious 
to health is proved by a simple observation of the faces of those 
stopping for a long time, or habitually doing so by reason of 
their professions, in close localities. They will present a pale, 
gray sickly appearance, and it is a fact that they very rapidly 
acquire all sorts of infections; especially is tuberculosis very 
prevalent in such cases. We observe precisely the same thing 
in the case of plants which, if kept in a close room, especially 
where little light reaches them, soon lose their color and are 
destroyed by parasites ; and exactly the same happens in the case 
of man. Prisoners, unfortunate work-people, living and labor- 

(271) 



272 Old Age Deferred. 



ing in large numbers in small and close quarters, waiters and 
similar employees, are those in whom tuberculosis is most fre- 
quently found. In respect to workmen, this may be more truly 
the case in Europe, where they live under more miserable condi- 
tions, than in America, where their position is possibly the most 
enviable of all wage earners. 

Close air, just as much as stagnant water, promotes the 
growth of dangerous microbes, and the chances of infection are 
greatly enhanced where a number of people are gathered together 
in such places. Many of them may be suffering from infectious 
diseases of the respiratory organs ; they exhale, and also eject by 
coughing or sneezing, an enormous number of microbes, which 
mingle with the air and multiply at their leisure in such close 
atmospheres; and this is especially so when they are assisted in 
their growth by the great heat prevalent in such places, par- 
ticularly in winter time. Bacteriological examinations made of 
the air of such localities have shown an enormous number of 
dangerous microbes. We need, therefore, not be surprised when 
persons, and especially children whose resistance is diminished, 
often contract tonsillitis, diphtheria, bronchitis, or pneumonia, 
etc., after having passed an evening in such a place, the air being 
hot, and particularly if, at the same time, the temperature outside 
was very low. 

Living in a close room will soon tell on the general health, 
and this is easily visible in the appearance of such persons. 
Their pale faces form a striking contrast to the fresh rosy cheeks 
of those who habitually live in the fresh air. Those who have 
to pass their lives in offices are to be pitied, although, to a large 
extent, it is their own fault; they deprive themselves of the 
benefit of fresh air, which, after office hours, they would have 
ample opportunity to obtain if they would not persist in spending 
their leisure time in a club or other close place, instead of taking 
a brisk walk and exercise in the fresh air. No wonder that 
such people easily acquire dyspepsia and stomach troubles! 
Exercise in the open air is most valuable for promoting an 



Confined and Ill-ventilated Quarters. 273 

appetite, and persons sitting constantly in close places often lack 
this; thus their gastric juice, which is indispensable to a thorough 
digestion (see chapter on hygiene of eating how to obtain an 
appetite) fails, and eating without this juice their food will not 
be well digested and will create stomach troubles, which are ex- 
tremely frequent in such office workers, but rarer in the case of 
peasants, coachmen, and other fortunate individuals whose occu- 
pation keeps them in the fresh open air. There is an increased 
amount of carbonic acid in the air of all localities where many 
persons are present. According to Pettenkofer, even in our 
living-rooms the carbonic acid content of the air is increased 
above the normal; and still more is this so in lecture-halls (3.2 
per cent., against a normal content of 0.5 per cent.), in public 
houses (4.9 per cent.), and most of all in school rooms (7.2 per 
cent. ) . 

We should, therefore, always keep a window open and never 
close the ventilator. Fresh air is the thing we are most in need 
of to carry on the oxidizing processes in our body. Exclude 
this and you exclude health. We must also remove from the 
rooms all those things which can absorb the air or hinder its 
entrance. There should never be flowers, and particularly no 
potted plants, in a living room, as they require air like ourselves ; 
while to sleep in a room with plants is very deleterious (see 
chapter on sleep). 

Curtains should all be removed, especially those of a heavy 
nature and dark color, which would prevent the entrance of the 
beneficial sunshine. Every room should be provided with open- 
ings for ventilation, and the transoms used in America are espe- 
cially useful when they are open, and not used only to let the 
electric light into the sleeping room during the night, thus dis- 
turbing sleep. As a close room tends to shorten life it should be 
the policy of the government authorities never to allow the use 
of any newly built house, especially of public buildings, unless it 
contains openings for ventilation, the closing of which should be 
very severely punished by Jaw. 

18 



274 Old Age Deferred. 



If, during the day, it is necessary to have fresh air in every 
room, there is still greater necessity for this during the night, 
as we require more air during sleep than while awake; and, 
therefore, we should never sleep in a room that is entirely 
closed, but always leave the window (the upper part by prefer- 
ence) or the ventilator open. 

We can easily convince ourselves how injurious it is to 
sleep in a close room by leaving our room in the morning, taking 
a walk in the fresh air, and then re-entering our sleeping cham- 
bers that have remained closed as we left them, and we shall at 
once realize the unhealthy condition of the air in such a room, 
filled as it is with carbonic acid that has been exhaled during the 
night, and also loaded with the other deleterious toxic substances 
cast off by our lungs and skin. We shall then certainly make up 
our minds not to inhale during the next night the same air again, 
but to allow it to escape by the open window and thus permit 
the entrance of fresh air into our lungs, whose need for air is 
much increased during sleep in order to replace the large volume 
of carbonic acid exhaled. 

As a consequence of passing the night in such a close room, 
we feel, on the following morning, very heavy, and often have a 
headache; we also often have no appetite for breakfast after 
such a night, unless we first take a walk in the fresh morning 
air. 

The danger of the close room should be brought home to 
all, even children, through instruction in hygiene in the pub- 
lic schools; and even from their very youngest days this 
should be instilled into the minds of youth, together with the 
centra-advantages of fresh air. By these means they will be 
accustomed to the fresh air and its beneficial effects, as much 
as they will learn to detest the horrors of the air exhaled by 
other people, which is the source of so many infections. Every 
one who wishes to enjoy life during youth, and live to a good old 
age, should abominate a close room and never, if he can possibly 
help it, pass an hour in such an atmosphere. 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 

HYGIENE OF ARTIFICIAL HEATING THE DANGERS OF HEAT BY 
STEAM AND A FEW HINTS ABOUT THEIR PREVENTION. 

OLD people are particularly sensitive to cold, and they there- 
fore need a warm room when the temperature falls in the 
autumn. In old age, especially in its advanced stage, the pro- 
cesses of oxidation are diminished, and thus less natural warmth 
is produced; but, as we give off more heat in cold weather, it is 
only natural that they will feel the cold then much more than 
younger individuals. 

The rooms, therefore, in which old people live must be 
kept very warm, in the same manner as we do with infants, 
especially for those who come of parents with degenerated 
thyroids. Thus we see again how old age and infancy present 
many parallel features. 

But, if a very warm room be compulsory for aged folks, 
no such necessity exists in the case of the young or middle aged, 
and it is abusing their health if they remain long in rooms heated 
above 75 to 85, or sometimes 90, where, at the same time, 
every window is sedulously closed on all sides, so that no fresh 
air can find entrance. Such overheated rooms we usually find 
in northern climates, and the air in such cases is frequently 
hotter in the house in winter than we find it in the open on a com- 
fortably warm summer day, when, being in the open, the heat 
can certainly be better borne than in a close room. 

In America many things are better than in Europe ; but this 
certainly does not apply to the method of heating used in the ma- 
jority of the houses, hotels, and office buildings, all of which 
are mostly overheated, and that by steam heat, and very fre- 
quently with defective ventilation, if there be any at all. The 
worst part of it is that a uniform heat is maintained, whether 

(275) 



276 Old Age Deferred. 



it be a warm or a cold day; thus, the air temperature was 
55 F. on October 15, 1906, when I was in New York, and in 
one of the most fashionable hotels the temperature was 75 F. 
In Houston, Texas, there was a heat wave in February, 1907, 
with disagreeable hot weather, yet 70 F. of steam-generated 
heat was maintained in the hotels, which made life unbearable for 
those who, like the author of this book, are so fond of fresh air. 

As we are endeavoring in this work to give hints how to 
reach a ripe old age and prevent diseases which may dissipate our 
hopes in that direction, it is our duty to protest and to point out 
the dangers of such irrational heating. 

It seems to me, however, that in some northern countries 
in Europe things are not much better, especially since steam 
heat is becoming more and more used, as in Norway, even 
in the private houses. In some of these countries Russia, for 
instance cotton is put around the window panes to exclude the 
air, and also to absorb the moisture condensed on the inside of 
the double windows. 

In many European countries, however, fireplaces and stoves 
are common. The most rational method of heating, though not 
the most economical, is the open fireplace in England, whence the 
most ventilation is obtained; for the essence of the problem is 
to obtain warmth and fresh air at the same time. English, 
Scotch, and Irish are most sensitive to an overheated room, and 
they are probably the most healthy inhabitants of Europe, too. 
While a guest, some years ago, of friends in Derbyshire, I well 
remember that, directly the temperature rose above 65, the win- 
dows were thrown open. 

Americans in Europe often complain that they are not 
warmed at the fireplace, which only keeps the face and not the 
body warm. This, however, will only apply to those who 
only feel comfortable at a temperature of 75 F., which is dis- 
tinctly unhealthy; for the open English grate can very easily 
produce the standard temperature of 15 R. (about 18 C.), 
which should not be exceeded if we want to have a healthy 



Hygiene of Artificial Heating. 277 

warmed atmosphere in our rooms. Of course such fireplaces 
can produce a much higher temperature, but even then the air 
is never so offensive as that of rooms heated by steam. 

It would seem, at first thought, that women can withstand 
cold much better than men, considering how much lighter is 
their dress and how much more it exposes them to cold air. We 
sometimes see young girls of the poorer class in such light cloth- 
ing in mid-winter, standing in the streets and talking with their 
friends, that we men shiver at the mere idea of such clothing. 
Yet it is women who most need a warm room, probably because 
their dress is much the same indoors in mid-winter as in mid- 
summer. They, however, when out-of-doors wear heavy furs 
which entirely check the respiration of their skin; and their 
light clothes, when indoors, do not afford much opportunity for 
their skin respiration, for then there is usually no fresh air in the 
house, but an oppressive heat, all air ventilators being sedulously 
closed. It is strange how people try, by every means, to destroy 
their health ! 

In warm weather we give off less warmth and do not 
require so much food in order to produce warmth, as the natural 
temperature also requires less of us; in summer, therefore, we 
need less nourishment. 

Circumstances, also, become much more equalized in the 
artificial summer of the overheated room. Whereas people tak- 
ing a brisk walk in a cold and bracing atmosphere return with 
rosy cheeks and a roaring appetite, the unfortunates who per- 
sist in passing the day in overheated, especially steam-heated 
places with a confined atmosphere will not feel a natural hunger, 
will eat without a healthy appetite, and will have insufficient 
gastric juice (see chapter on appetite), exposing themselves to 
digestive troubles in consequence. Their need for food will be 
less, and a bad condition of health will follow. 

Another and most imminent danger of overheated rooms 
is the facility with which we are apt to take cold by walking from 
a room kept at summer heat to the outside cold of winter. We 



278 Old Age Deferred. 



all know how we catch cold, as a rule, but we never know how 
it may end. Sometimes a simple cold is followed by sore throat, 
but often also by catarrh of the bronchi, and even of the lungs. 
In persons addicted to alcohol a fatal pneumonia from such a 
cause is common ; but, in any event, there is a great failing of the 
general health for a long time, all of which may have originated 
from an overheated room which has made us more sensitive to 
the effects of cold. 

When we keep ourselves cool we are less liable to catch 
cold, as is well known; for then our body is not first heated up 
and then cooled off rapidly. This has been shown by experiments 
on animals. It is certain that people accustomed to a temperature 
of 15 R. have much less tendency to take cold than those living 
in rooms at 75 to 90 F. Such a temperature is also a breeding 
place for billions of dangerous microbes, which certainly prosper 
better at such a warm temperature. 

Still more dangerous are the consequences from the over- 
heating of railway compartments, as then it is still less impossible 
to avoid rapid changes of temperature. When there are many 
persons in overheated places, and the exhaled air from all of 
them contains an enormous quantity of virulent bacilli, the dan- 
ger of infection is still greater ; especially so when there is steam- 
generated heat, with its injurious effects on the mucous mem- 
branes, whose resistance to bacillary invasion is thus lowered. 

Steam heat is the most injurious of all heat, as it dries up 
the mucous membranes and renders them thereby more liable to 
infection. We have often noticed in persons with large tonsils 
inflammation of these glands, which commenced every time that 
such persons inhaled steam-generated heat for several hours. 
Such frequent tonsillitis will also undermine the health, espe- 
cially if we consider that not infrequently an acute glomerulo- 
nephritis may ensue (and often does follow, in an insidious way, 
without even being diagnosed). There have also been plenty of 
cases of appendicitis in which the tonsillitis has been in prior 
etiological relation to its development. 



Hygiene of Artificial Heating. 279 

We have observed persons who, in consequence of such fre- 
quent tonsillitis due to steam heat, have run down in health, lost 
their appetite, and presented a pale, gray and miserable appear- 
ance, whereas before they were rosy-cheeked and vigorous. In 
others, continued pharyngitis, bronchitis, and sometimes asthma, 
may be observed. 

In order to mitigate these dangers of steam heat we must 
place basins filled with hot water in the localities where the steam 
heat is produced. Such basins can be readily placed behind and 
attached to the radiators; but they must be of large dimensions 
and must be kept properly filled. 

Steam heat is most dangerous when there is insufficient 
ventilation ; there should, therefore, be behind the radiators, and 
also in the opposite wall at a certain height, an opening for ven- 
tilation. It is, of course, understood that such ventilators are 
to be always kept open and not, as is unhappily so often the case, 
closed. It is of the utmost importance that the radiators be 
thoroughly dusted every day, as this heated dust is most injurious 
to health. This is a rule that should be especially observed in 
railway cars. 

Fireplaces and stoves, which allow of a renovation of the 
air in a room, are superior to the steam heat. In a room with 
an open fireplace or a good stove the air is renewed, for a current 
of air is created which removes from the room microbes and dust. 
Thus the air is purified. But it is quite different with steam heat, 
which does not remove bad air from the room. Fancy, now, a 
steam-heated hall, with many people in it, which is overheated at 
the same time, and you will understand the frequency of tonsillitis 
and bad colds after staying in such a hall which we would feel 
inclined to spell in a different way, to show better its real nature. 

Hot-water heating is superior to steam heating. 

Everyone who desires to preserve youth for a long time 
and attain a good old age, should avoid living continually in 
places overheated by steam, without proper ventilation, as this 
is one of the surest means of shortening life. . 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 
FOOD HYGIENE GENERAL REMARKS. 

THE leading principle in the use of food is that we should 
eat to live, but not live to eat. It is certain that more people 
die from eating too much than too little. It is wonderful to 
consider how little food animals, or human beings, can exist 
upon for a long time and remain in good health ; and it is certain 
that the foundations of many diseases are laid by excessive eating. 
It must be borne in mind that the elaboration and assimilation of 
a large quantity of food requires the activity, or even hyperac- 
tivity, of several of our most important organs, upon the condi- 
tion of which our length of life depends. And here we may 
repeat the statement that has been made so often in the course of 
this book, that overactivity of an organ may be followed by its 
exhaustion. By laying too great a burden upon an organ, and 
continually overworking it without giving it any rest for recuper- 
ation, we are burning the candle at both ends, and rapidly ex- 
hausting the vitality of such important organs as the liver, 
kidneys, pancreas, stomach, and intestines, not forgetting those 
important glands, the thyroid and parathyroid, which take a great 
share in the destruction of poisonous products formed in our 
bodies from the end-products of food. 

We have just mentioned that with very little food animals, 
or human beings, can live for a long time. But prolonged under- 
feeding may be quite as dangerous as overfeeding. In starva- 
tion the resistance against infectious diseases, and especially 
tuberculosis, is diminished. This disease, the most common of 
all maladies, is found most often in underfed people, especially 
if they live in confined localities with little air and no sunshine. 
Moderation in food, as in everything else, is the only way to 
attain a happy old age. 
(280) 



Food Hygiene. 281 



The Romans had a very appropriate proverb which ran: 
"Omne quod est nimium, vertitur in vitium," "Everything in 
excess becomes a vice." 

Much depends upon the quality of the food we take, for 
some foods are of very little nutritive value; and even of the 
most nutritive food, some parts may pass out as waste products, 
because those organs which elaborate and assimilate food may be 
partially, or wholly, changed by disease, and so unable to fulfill 
the work for which they are destined. 

Therefore, given a moderate amount of food, the condition 
of the body and the maintenance of strength will depend mainly 
upon the nutritive value of that food. An exact method of 
estimating the nutritive value of food has been shown by Frank- 
land, Stohmann, Danilewsky, and Rubner. 

The best method of calculating the nutritive value of any 
food consists in estimating how many calories it produces in 
the body during combustion. One calorie is the amount of heat 
necessary to raise the temperature of one gramme of water one 
degree Centigrade. Comparing our system to an oven in which 
food represents the fuel : Just as oxygen is necessary for combus- 
tion in the oven, so we could not carry out the processes of com- 
bustion in our system without a plentiful supply of oxygen 
through our lungs and skin. Also, just as gases produced in a 
furnace must have free exit, so the carbonic acid, formed in our 
tissues in the processes of combustion, must be eliminated by the 
lungs and skin, otherwise auto-intoxication will occur. The 
above-named authorities have reckoned exactly how many calories 
the various kinds of food produce in our body. 

All articles of diet can be classified into three principal 
groups: proteids, carbohydrates, and fats. According to the 
abovenamed authorities one gramme 1 of proteid produces 4.1 
calories; one gramme of carbohydrates, 4.1 calories; but one 
gramme of fat produces more than twice as many, i.e., 9.3 
calories. 



1 As well known, one gramme is the equivalent of 15 grains. 



282 Old Age Deferred. 



In order to maintain life without waste or without exposing 
ourselves to disease, it is necessary to use all three kinds of food ; 
for although many animals, or human beings, can live for a cer- 
tain time on only one variety of food, most of them would die 
if this were persisted in for a long time. The- total exclusion 
of proteids especially would produce, after a certain time, a con- 
siderable wasting of the body tissues and certain death. Accord- 
ing to Voith, it is necessary to take about 100 grammes of albu- 
min a day if we want to avoid waste of body tissue. Proteid 
food cannot be replaced by either of the other two groups of 
food. 

There are a series of facts which show that the estimate 
given by Voith is perhaps too high. Horace Fletcher has shown 
by experiments on himself, controlled by Professor Chitten- 
den, that he could live in splendid health with food not contain- 
ing more than 45 grammes albumin, and of 1600 calories heat 
value, in twenty-four hours, with a body weight of 186 pounds. 

As shown by Professor Noorden, 2 in Vienna, a man must 
take 30 to 34 calories for each kilo (2 1 / 5 pounds) of his body- 
weight when he is doing no work, and 34 to 40 calories with light, 
and 40 to 60 calories with harder work. Accordingly a man 
weighing 70 kilos would require to take food equivalent to about 
2800 calories for light work, and about 3500 to 4000 calories for 
heavy work. But Fletcher got along well on 1600 calories with 
a body weight of 186 pounds. However, he lost some weight, 36 
pounds, but became healthier and stronger than he was previously. 
Later on he still further reduced his diet and lived on 38 grammes 
of albumin and 1581 calories, continuing in perfect health. 

By a series of experiments on a number of healthy Ameri- 
can soldiers, continued for a long time, Chittenden 3 and Horace 
Fletcher 4 found that these men could do very hard work with 

2v. Noorden: "Die Zuckerkrankheit," fourth edition; and "Pathologic 
des Stoffwechsels," fourth edition, vol. i, 

3 Chittenden: "Physiological Economy of Nutrition," New York, 1904, 
and "The Nutrition of Man," London, 1907. 

4H. Fletcher: "The A, B-Z of Nutrition," New York, 1904. 



Food Hygiene. 283 



an average of only 55 grammes albumin and 2700 calories; and, 
what is more interesting, their muscular power was doubled. 

The same result was obtained by Professor Chittenden by 
experiments on seven of the finest athletes among the 2300 
students of Yale University. He found the strength of these 
students increased as much as 48 per cent. One of them won the 
championship in gymnastics, open to all American universities, 
during the course of these experiments. Rechenberg found that 
the weavers of Zittau in Germany required 65 grammes of .pro- 
teids a day. 

Very interesting are the observations of Professor Baelz, of 
Tokio, made on the Japanese coolies, who drew the jinrickshaw 
containing Professor Baelz, who then weighed 160 pounds. 
These coolies took carbohydrates, mainly rice, with a proteid 
content of only 60 to 80 grammes. They were able to do their 
work exceedingly well on this meager diet. One day Professor 
Baelz gave them a little meat which they took for three days, and 
then refused it, saying they would take it after their journey was 
done. Baelz made the interesting observation that these men 
were able to go about 60 miles, drawing a man of 108 pounds, 
whereas Baelz, who followed riding in a carriage, had to change 
his horse six times and only beat them by half an hour. 

The author of this book has observed that while taking i l / 2 
liters of milk a day, 2 eggs, 40 grammes of butter, 3 rolls, 3 
oranges, a pound of cherries, a cup of coffee with milk, and 
one tart, he was able to live very well for about two months 
without any loss in weight. The milk was of excellent quality, 
containing about 700 calories to the liter, and about 34 grammes 
albumin ; thus he was taking about 70 grammes albumin and about 
2300 calories a day, with a body weight of 155 pounds, and leading 
a very active life and he felt better than ever before. 

Still we would not like to generalize and say that 55 or 60 
grammes albumin in the day would be a suitable amount for every 
individual. Here, as everywhere, individuality and many other 
circumstances must be considered. What is good for one may 



284 Old Age Deferred. 



not answer in the same way for another. The Japanese have 
constitutions different to the Europeans, for which reason we 
cannot apply to Europeans facts which hold good for Asiatics. 
Moreover, not everyone's digestive organs are capable of util- 
izing ingested food to the same degree. The quality of the 
food is also of great importance, and likewise its digestibility. 
Therefore the question is very complex, and, for these and other 
reasons, the discussion of which would lead us too far, we cannot 
recommend a diet containing such a small amount of albumin for 
general use. 

Everybody likes to judge from his own experience, and so 
the author is inclined to the belief that, when milk is taken in 
large quantities, in addition to fats and carbohydrates, it is pos- 
sible to get along with a smaller amount of albumin, and of calo- 
ries in general. Milk, in healthy stomachs and intestines, is very 
easily absorbed, and the food leaves less residue than most 
other kinds of food. Then, again, milk contains in a wonderful 
combination all the three main groups of food. So we believe 
that when milk is taken as the main article of diet we can get 
along with a smaller number of calories, without any prejudice 
to our health. 

According to Rubner 5 the following number of calories are 
indicated daily: Carbo- 

Albumin Fat hydrates Calories 
For an adult of 50 kilos >,. .... . 90 37 262 2102 

Foranadultof70kilosl d ingllghtWOrk 123 46 317 2631 

._ . .. 96 44 404 2472 

For an adu t of 50 fa os > 

For an adult of 70 kilos \ ^ ^ ^ 2m 

Albuminous food serves, according to the prevalent opinion, 
to build up our body tissues, carbohydrates to produce the energy 
that is necessary for muscular work, and the fats to produce heat. 

Accordingly, persons who are growing will need more albu- 
min in order to produce body tissues ; and albuminous food will 

5 Rubner : "Physiologie der Nahrung und der Ernahrungtherapie," Leip- 
zig, 1897. 



Food Hygiene. 285 



be indicated for those who have had much loss of tissue, as in 
convalescence after wasting disease. By albuminous food the 
waste of body tissues can best be replaced. Also after different 
kinds of excesses where tissue is wasted (e.g., after sexual ex- 
cesses) albuminous food will be indicated. 

Such a food is also necessary for women during pregnan- 
cies, and especially during lactation. 

In any of these conditions the minimum of albuminous food, 
taken daily, should certainly be 100 grammes. But other persons 
can often manage with less without any wasting of the body pro- 
teids, so long as carbohydrates and fats are taken simultaneously 
in sufficient quantities. 

Besides the three principal groups of food there are certain 
other kinds which are almost as indispensable, e.g., mineral matter 
and water, without which no animal or man could live, and vege- 
table acids and cellulose. 

The most important mineral matters are lime salts, mainly 
in the form of phosphates. They are present in greatest amounts 
in cows' milk. Common salt is a most important element of food, 
for which animals and men often risk their life. As Bunge 
shows, where vegetables that contain much potassium are taken, 
then common salt must be taken as well. He has shown by 
experiment upon himself, that when potassium salts are taken a 
great quantity of sodium chloride is eliminated from the body. 
The reason is, that when a potassium salt is taken, e.g., carbo- 
nate of potassium, and this, in the blood, meets with chloride of 
sodium, then chloride of potassium and carbonate of sodium are 
formed. But the kidney's duty is to see that the composition of 
the blood is maintained, and that foreign substances, or the sur- 
plus of a normal substance like carbonate of sodium, are elimi- 
nated. Hence the carbonate of sodium and the chloride of potas- 
sium are together eliminated, and thus our blood loses two im- 
portant elements: chlorine and sodium. Thus, when potassium 
is taken, the body loses sodium chloride, and then more of this 
substance is required. 



286 Old Age Deferred. 

A diet of potatoes necessitates much salt, as they are rich 
in potassium; on the other hand, rice contains only minimal 
quantities of potash. Potatoes contain 42 grammes of potassium 
in 100 grammes ; rice only i gramme. Thus rice as food would 
require only the smallest amount of salt. 

At the same time Bunge points out the great dangers to the 
kidneys of a diet from which quantities of an alkali salt are 
formed and circulate through these organs. We can draw a 
practical conclusion of great value from Bunge's observations, 
and not use much salt in our food, nor too large quantities of 
vegetables containing much potassium, if we want to save our 
kidneys from harm. That salt is deleterious to the kidneys, 
especially when previously damaged, is shown by the works of 
Achard and Loeper, 6 Strauss, 7 Vidal and Javal, 8 and others. We 
have enlarged upon this in our chapters on the functions of the 
kidneys and their hygiene. 

A mineral of great importance is iron, which is contained 
in pig's blood to the largest extent, and in certain vegetables 
and fruit in considerable quantities. Vegetables and fruit are 
also rich in vegetable acids, and also contain a large amount of 
cellulose, which plays an important role in the normal evacuation 
of the bowels, being the most natural stimulus for this purpose. 

Condiments are also indispensable in a certain quantity with 
our food, for without them the food would have no taste and 
would not stimulate appetite, which is of great importance for 
digestion. On the other hand, too much of these condiments 
would irritate vital organs, like the stomach, intestines, liver, 
kidneys, etc. Therefore they should only be used in modera- 
tion, and the more potent ones, like mustard and pepper, should 
be avoided, or only taken in minimal quantities. Vinegar would 
not be so bad if it did not so often contain sulphuric acid. Cer- 
tain sharp sauces which are much used are veritable poisons to 

6 Achard and Loeper: C.R Soc. biologic, 23 Mars, 1901. 

7 Strauss: Die chronischen Nierenentzundungen, Berlin, 1902. 

8 Vidal et Javal: Soc. M6d. des HSpitaux, 26 J., 1903; Vidal: "Le 
regime deehloruse"," Li6ge CongrSs de He'd., 1905. 



Food Hygiene. 287 



the kidneys. This is true of soup that contains them, and even 
strong bouillon, when it is taken every day in large quantities, 
may be injurious to the kidneys and affect unfavorably the blood 
pressure since it contains many meat extracts. To minimize the 
dangers of all these kinds of harmful materials, and also of the 
end-products of nitrogenous food when passing through the 
kidneys, it is best and healthiest to drink large quantities of 
water, hard water being most desirable, according to Roese, 
because of its richness in lime salts. It is advisable to drink this 
after meals; but if water is not taken in too large quantities it 
may be perfectly harmless to take it during meals. It helps the 
appetite in many persons, and encourages the absorption of the 
food. If taken in too large quantities it may dilute the gastric 
juice, although in such a case the glands of the stomach strive to 
keep up the standard acidity, and secrete more acid in conse- 
quence. As shown previously, a certain degree of fluidity of the 
intestinal contents is indispensable for the healthy action of the 
bowels. For all these reasons we recommend a moderate amount 
of good fresh water daily. Happily, most of our foodstuffs, 
especially green vegetables and fruit, contain water in large 
quantities. 

Under the name stimulants we include various kinds of food 
accessories. The most important of these are alcoholic drinks. 
It has been shown by physiologic experiments that when alco- 
hol is taken in moderate quantities it is harmless, and at the same 
time may be of value as a nutrient foodstuff. It is evident from 
the result of the experiments of Atwater and Benedict that alcohol 
has a nutritive value, and that as a kind of fuel it can largely 
replace carbohydrates and fats. In such quantities it also stimu- 
lates digestion and other functions, e.g., those of the heart and 
nervous system. Such small quantities of alcohol are contained 
in beer and wine. According to Rubner, 100 parts of beer 
contain : 

Alcohol Albumin Extracts 

Bavarian beer 3.45 0.61 5.3 

Pilsner . . 3.46 0.4 5.0 



288 Old Age Deferred. 



English and American beers, however, are much stronger 
in alcohol; thus Scotch ale contains 8.50 per cent, of alcohol; 
London porter, 6.90 per cent. ; lager beer, 3.90 per cent. 

Beer is also of nutritive value on account of its sugar and 
dextrine, which are in considerable amount, especially in dark 
beers; it also contains an appreciable amount of albumin. 
On the other hand, beer has the disadvantage of forming uric 
acid in considerable quantities, as shown by Walker Hall and 
Haig. Beer also conduces to obesity. There can, however, be 
no harm in taking a small amount of light beer every day. 

Wine contains proteid substances, carbohydrates, and salts. 
In some kinds of wine, like port, sherry, Tokayer, Malaga, and Ma- 
deira, there are large quantities of sugar. The alcohol contents 
of the different kinds of wine are given by Rubner as fol- 
lows : 

Tyrolean wines 8.3 per cent. 

French red wine 9.4 " " 

Rhine wines 11.1 " " 

. , Palatial (Pfalz) wines 11.5 " " 

Mosel 12.1 " " 

Thus, Tyrolean wines are the lightest, French wines come 
next, but Mosel wines are the strongest, in spite of the popular 
belief that they contain only little alcohol. 

Wines contain more acids than beer (0.41 per cent, to 0.69 
per cent, according to Rubner), whereas beer has only o.i per 
cent. As wine contains vegetable acids, just as do vegetables 
and fruit, they may be of a certain dietetic value on this account. 

We do not think it harmful if old people drink, every day, 
a few glasses of good French claret, although we are not pre- 
pared to indorse the dictum of Hufeland that wine is the milk 
of the old. Much greater precaution must be taken in the en- 
joyment of spirits: brandy (cognac), whiskey, and rum. These 
beverages contains 50 to 60 per cent, of alcohol. Still we do not 
think that small amounts of whiskey, if taken occasionally and 
in measured quantities, can be dangerous. Care must be taken 
to get whiskey of good quality. There can be no doubt, how- 



Food Hygiene. 289 



ever, that when large quantities are taken, as in dipsomania, old 
age is brought on sooner. It is claimed that after taking whiskey 
less uric acid is eliminated than after taking the other alcoholic 
beverages, as beer or some kinds of wine. 

Coffee, tea, and cocoa also belong to the class of stimulants, 
and we will treat of them in a special chapter, as also of tobacco. 

Great moderation must be observed in the amount of food 
we take daily. Too rich food would induce not only diseases 
of the digestive organs, but also disorders of metabolism, like 
obesity, gout, or diabetes, and thus shorten life. Arteriosclerosis 
is also promoted by such a diet. 

The more food also the more exercise should be taken, and 
the more we work the more food should we take. 

Aged persons should take less proteid food and more carbo- 
hydrates. Proteid food is better suited to young persons who 
are growing. Besides carbohydrates, milk is also especially in- 
dicated for old persons, as are also certain amounts of fat, 
butter, etc. 

The amount of food should also depend upon the climate; 
thus, in winter more fat should be taken, for fat produces heat. 
Inhabitants of northern climes eat much fat, and in Scandi- 
navia more butter is taken than in southern countries. In hot 
summer weather little proteid food is required, and carbohy- 
drates, vegetables, and fruit are more suitable. 

Much depends on the preparation of food. In the process 
of cooking the food should be brought into the most advan- 
tageous form for absorption and assimilation. Therefore much 
depends upon the way in which the food is cooked, and the 
great importance of this fact is shown by the establishing of 
courses in cooking in Berlin under the direction of Prof. H. 
Strauss. 

In the choice of food attention must be paid to its digesti- 
bility. A robust man, who works hard and takes much exercise, 
can digest easily the most indigestible vegetable food, whereas 
a man occupied with scientific work and sitting down all day 

19 



290 Old Age Deferred. 



will have a greater difficulty in digesting it. Aged persons, 
whose digestive glands are atrophied, are unable to digest food 
which presents great difficulties to the action of their juices. 
Therefore raw milk, whipped eggs, tripe, lamb, rice, sago, 
tapioca, barley, and soft boiled eggs, are the most digestible foods 
for them. Of the vegetables, rice is among the easiest to digest, 
and it will also soonest disappear from the stomach. There are 
special preparations made from various kinds of cereals, finely 
ground, and containing the most nourishing elements, and these 
may be advisable for aged persons. There are also albuminous 
foodstuffs in which the albumin is changed into the form of 
peptones. However, it has been shown by Professor Ewald that 
they contain very little peptone, but mainly albumose, its pre- 
cursor. Others of these foodstuffs have the starch trans- 
formed into dextrin or maltose. There can be no doubt that 
aged persons will thrive and prosper on the best of these prepa- 
^ rations, which also have the advantage that they can be taken 
in conjunction with milk. Another point in their favor is that 
they require little mastication. 

We add here a table after Professor Ewald, of Berlin, on 
the digestibility of the various kinds of food : 

TABLE INDICATING THE DIGESTIBILITY OF DIFFERENT KINDS OF FOOD. 

The following food leaves the stomach in 1 to 2 hours: 
100 to 200 gr. of pure water. 200 gr. light wine. 

220 gr. aerated water. 100 to 200 gr. milk. 

200 gr. tea. 200 gr. bouillon. 

200 gr. coffee. 100 gr. eggs (soft boiled). 

200 gr. beer. 

A longer time, 2 to 3 hours, is required for the digestion of the following 
food: 

200 gr. coffee with cream. 200 gr. dried cod, boiled. 

200 gr. cocoa with milk. 150 gr. asparagus, boiled. 

300 to 500 gr. water. 150 gr. potatoes, boiled. 

300 to 500 gr. beer. 150 gr. potatoes, mashed. 

300 to 500 gr. milk. 150 gr. cherries, a compSte. 

100 gr. raw eggs, hard boiled eggs, or 150 gr. cherries, raw. 

omelette. 70 gr. white bread, new or stale, 

250 gr. sweetbread boiled. dry or with tea. 



Food Hygiene. 291 



72 gr. fresh oysters boiled. 70 gr. biscuit, fresh or stale, dry or 
200 gr. carp boiled. with tea. 

200 gr. pike, boiled. 50 gr. Albert biscuits. 
200 gr. haddock. 

A still longer time, 3 to 4 hours, is required by: 

230 gr. young chickens, boiled. 150 gr. dark bread. 

230 gr. partridges. 150 gr. brown bread. 

220 to 260 gr. pigeons. 150 gr. white bread. 

195 gr. pigeon, roast or broiled. 100 to 150 gr. Albert biscuits. 

250 gr. beef, boiled. 150 gr. potatoes. 

160 gr. ham, raw or boiled. 150 gr. kohlrabs, boiled. 

100 gr. roast veal, hot or cold. 150 gr. carrots. 

100 gr. beefsteak, roasted. 150 gr. spinach. 

100 gr. sirloin of beef. 150 gr. cucumber salads. 
200 gr. salmon, boiled. 50 gr. apples. 

72 gr. caviar, salted. 

The following food demands the longest time for its digestion: 

210 gr. pigeons, roasted. 250 gr. goose, roasted. 

250 gr. filet of beef, roasted. 250 gr. duck, roasted. 

250 gr. beef steak, roasted. 200 gr. herring, salad. 

250 gr. tongue, smoked. 150 gr. lentils, mashed. 

200 gr. hare, roasted. 200 gr. peas, mashed. 

240 gr. partridges, roasted. 150 gr. green beans, boiled. 

The digestibility of these various kinds of food is calcu- 
lated for the normal stomach. By following the above table we 
can make the best choice of easily digestible food. Especially 
for aged persons we should choose such, and at the same time we 
should mince them, or give them in the form of porridge, which is 
still better. We must do this because aged persons do not pos- 
sess, as a rule, good teeth, if any, and thus cannot fulfill the 
demands of mastication, which we will treat of later on in a sepa- 
rate chapter. 

The food should not be too hot nor too cold, as, if it is, the 
stomach, and even intestines may be damaged; on the other 
hand, as a rule, warm food disappears sooner from the stomach ; 
but there are many exceptions to this rule. 

The keynote in the hygiene of food is moderation. We 
should never eat more than necessary to satisfy hunger. Most 
people know when they have had enough; -and as a rule 



292 Old Age Deferred. 



animals never eat more than enough to satisfy them, and then 
they will refuse more food. But with the intelligent human 
being it is different, and there are not a few who eat more than 
they require, and thus dig their graves with their teeth. Mod- 
eration is all important; it is, indeed, the cause of longevity of 
those persons who live about 100 years. 

We know the story of Cornaro, who became ill at 40 
through immoderate living. He recovered his health by reduc- 
ing his food to the necessary amount only, and then lived, happy 
and healthy, to 100 years. Mr. Horace Fletcher, 9 and many 
other persons, have recovered their health through moderation 
in food, after having come to the brink of death through im- 
moderation. Such examples we may often see, and they are 
eloquent advocates of moderation in diet. 

We will show later that we can only digest food that we 
eat with relish; therefore never let us be persuaded to par- 
take of food, or compel ourselves to eat, when we are not hun- 
gry. Therefore, at least six hours should pass between dinner 
and supper, and five hours between breakfast and dinner. It is 
more healthy, and especially conducive to healthy sleep, to have 
dinner at 12 or I, and supper at 6 or 7. Meat should only be 
taken once a day, at dinner, and in the evening much less should 
be eaten than at noon. Meat should never be taken for break- 
fast. We would recommend the following diet : 

BREAKFAST. 

Grape fruit or oranges, 2 eggs (soft boiled), cereals, stewed 
fruit, white or brown bread, fresh butter, a teaspoonful of 
marmalade or other kind of jam, fresh cherries, or fresh straw- 
berries, or other fruit in season, especially grapes, half to one pint 

of milk. 

DINNER. 

Soup, fish or meat, vegetables, stewed fruit, fresh fruit, 
white or brown bread. 



Loo. cif. 



Food Hygiene. 293 



SUPPER. 

Like breakfast : one pint of milk, or half a pint of sour milk, 
kefir, or koumiss. Also, if liked, sour milk during the day. 

In the above diet list we have a variety of foods, which 
variety is of great importance. 

It is very advantageous, according to our observation, to 
append to this diet some milk, carbohydrates, fat, green vege- 
tables, and fruit, with the exclusion of meat. This we may do, 
especially if the weather is warm in spring, summer, or early 
autumn; but in winter the above diet with meat should be 
taken. It would be an excellent thing to take these two diets 
in alternating periods. Much will depend upon the tastes of 
each person, and the special indications which we give later on 
in their respective chapters. 

When no meat is eaten, then at least i Y^ to 2 liters of rich 
milk should be taken, and some cream cheese. 

After these general remarks on food we will treat of the 
merits and drawbacks of the various kinds of food. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 



ON PROTEID FOOD, ANIMAL FOOD, MEAT, FISH, 
EGGS, MILK, ETC. 

MEAT is the commonest animal food, is the most nutritious, and 
most closely resembles in its composition our own bodily tissues. 
Because the albumin of meat is much better absorbed than any 
other kind of albumin, such food can replace wasted body ele- 
ments in a shorter time than can any other kind of nutriment. 

Even the albumin of milk leaves more residue than that 
of meat. From this latter, therefore, is derived the most benefit 
during the period of bodily growth, or in the other conditions 
above mentioned ; but it will not be so efficacious in those whose 
growth is already finished, or whose body tissues are wasted by 
disease or by other demands on them. 

Meat contains very valuable nutritive elements, such as 
large quantities of proteids and fat, but very little carbohydrates ; 
also various important salts, such as chlorides, phosphates, and 
carbonate of potassium. Meat also contains iron, the largest 
amount being found in the blood of pigs. We can estimate 
the nutritive value of different kinds of meat from the follow- 
ing table; according to Professor Rubner, 1 each 100 parts 
contain : 



Food. 


Albumin. 


Fat. 


Calories. 




20 6 


1.5 


98 


Fat beef 


169 


27.2 


327 


Fat pork 


145 


37.3 


406 


Lean pork 


199 


6.8 


145 


Lean veal . 


19 8 


0.8 


89 


Fat veal 


18.9 


7.4 


146 


Fat chicken 


18.5 


9.3 


162 


Hare 


23.3 


1.1 


106 




10.1 


7.1 


107 


Bacon 




95.3 


886 



1 Rubner : "Physiologic der Nahrung und der Ernahrungtherapie," Leip- 
zig, 1897. 

(294) 



Proteid Food. 295 



In addition to the above nutritive elements there are also 
a series of extractive substances to which is due the pleasant 
taste of the meat. When such food is boiled these substances and 
salts pass into the water, and such meat loses in flavor, though 
not in its nutritive qualities, for the water i.e., the soup is 
not nutrimental at all. Meat, if prepared for the table directly 
after the animal is killed, would not be palatable ; and it is, there- 
fore, necessary for it be kept for a given time before it is eaten. 
Dr. Wiley, of Washington, considers that meat improves if kept 
not exceeding fourteen days in cold storage, after which time it 
begins to lose its best qualities. 

When meat is chilled it does not lose its pleasant taste; but 
when it is frozen the case is very different, for then it loses its 
beneficial juices, which escape into the surrounding ice. In such 
meats, therefore, the extractives which give the pleasant flavor 
are wanting. Refrigerated meat generally arrives in Europe in 
excellent condition from America. 

Before animals are slaughtered to be used for food a rig- 
orous examination by veterinarians must be made, in order to 
avoid poisoning from meat in a condition of putrefaction, or 
from diseased animals. Some animals, such as pigs, very often 
suffer from acute inflammatory diseases caused by catching cold 
while on long journeys prior to being slaughtered. Fortunately, 
in the early stages of such illness there is little danger, for it can 
be avoided by thorough bleeding. The Jewish method of bleed- 
an animal is thus particularly to be recommended, for by this 
means poisonous products can leave the animals' bodies in large 
quantities. Meat retaining all the natural blood decomposes very 
rapidly, especially in hot climates, and we must not forget that 
such poisonous substances, as ptomaines, in meat, are not de- 
stroyed by the process of cooking. 

The greatest danger from poisoning lies in oysters, which 
are otherwise a most digestible food. This is owing to the fre- 
quent presence of sewage contamination in the waters where they 
are bred, thereby causing veritable epidemics of typhoid fever. 



296 Old Age Deferred. 



Just as in fish foods, oysters and mussels, sausages in the meat 
foods are the most frequent cause of poisoning when they are not 
quite fresh and thoroughly sound, and from such a cause epi- 
demics from poisoning are frequent in Germany. Sausages are 
a very nutritious food, as they contain a large amount of fat; 
their greater value when made from the blood of pigs, on account 
of its richness in iron, will be specially dealt with in another 
chapter. 

Fish contain somewhat less albumin and much more water 
than meat, but some of them are rich in fat, such as the 
eel. We show in the following table the nutritive values in each 
100 parts of some of the most frequently eaten fish : 





Albumin. 


Fat. 


Calories. 




10 1 


7 1 


107 


Haddock ( Rubner ) 


17 1 


3 


73 


Salmon ( Pavy ) 


16 10 


5 50 


110 


Eel ( Rubner ) 


17 8 


28 4 


317 


White fish (Pavy) 


18.10 


2.90 


102 



Fish contain as a rule very little extractive substances com- 
pared with meat, and are therefore less tasteful ; but still the fatter 
fish have an agreeable flavor, and are pleasant to the taste. As 
a general rule, they are more digestible than meat, and also 
have less of other disadvantages than meat food, on which we 
will dwell more fully in another chapter. 

On the other hand, it is more important than with meat that 
fish should be absolutely fresh, which would be best attained 
by keeping them alive in water until just before being required 
for the table. Boiled fish is the most digestible, fried less so, and 
pickled or smoked the least. 

The most perfect animal food is milk, as it contains all the 
three principal elements of nourishment, and in normal digestive 
organs is easily resorbed. As in the case of meat diet, we will 
deal more fully with this most important and wholesome 
food in a special chapter. We will content ourselves with 
mentioning here that milk not only contains the three principal 
elements of food, but also most of the equally important organic 



Proteid Food. 



297 



and inorganic minerals, without which life would be impossible. 
It contains very important organic phosphorized combinations 
in the shape of lecithin and nuclein; and of the inorganic salts, 
lime exists in milk in a much greater degree than in any other 
food. Besides the albumin, carbohydrates, and fat which it con- 
tains, milk comes under the category of foods which are richest 
in mineral salts, especially lime, of which cows' milk contains 
1510 milligrammes in every 100 grammes of desiccated sub- 
stance, according to Bunge. In iron only is cows' milk very poor, 
and therefore when milk forms the main part of our daily 
nourishment it will be necessary to partake of iron at the same 
time, which we can best do by eating sausage and puddings 
made from pigs' blood (see Chapter XXXVIII). 

According to Professor Rubner milk and the various prod- 
ucts of milk contain the three main elements of food, in each 100 
parts, as follows : 





Albumin. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Calories. 


Cows' milk 


3 4 


3 6 


48 


67 


r.ream 


3 7 


25 7 


3 5 


268 


Buttermilk 


3 8 


1 2 


4 6 


41 


Whey 


0.8 


02 


3.4 


24 


Butter 


0.9 


83 1 


5 


404 


Cream cheese . 


27.2 


30.4 


2.5 


779 



According to Bunge the following is the composition of 
cows' milk, human milk, and the milk of some animals which 
rank nearest to human milk ; each 100 parts contain : 





Casein. 


Albumin. 


Fat. 


Sugar. 


Woman 


1 2 


05 


f8.n 

< 8 8 I 


1*1 


Cow 


3.0 


05 


U.8J 
3 7 


I6 to 5/ 
49 




1.2 


0.8 


1 2 


5.7 


Ass 


7 


1 6 


1 6 


60 


Goat . 


2.4 


0.8 


4.3 


3.6 



The milks nearest to human milk in composition are those of 
the horse, ass, and goat. It is a very interesting fact that goats' 
milk contains ten times as much iron and nearly. seven times as 



298 Old Age Deferred. 



much lime as human milk, and also ten times as much iron and 
eight times as much lime as cows' milk. On account of its nearer 
similitude to human milk than the cows' milk, and also because 
of its being richer in valuable minerals, we will later on, in the 
chapter on the advantages of milk food, advocate its use in prefer- 
ence to cows' milk. We will also show at the same time that milk 
must not be boiled, for by so doing very valuable ferments con- 
tained in the milk will be destroyed. Woman's milk is richer in 
these ferments. According to Beauchamp, Bouchut, and Moro, 
there is a diastatic ferment in breast milk, but not in cows' milk. 
Manfur and Gillet found a saponifying ferment in mothers' milk 
which is less active in that of cows. Luzatti and Bianchini found 
a starch-separating ferment in woman's milk which is absent in 
cows' and goats' milk. According to Spolverini, cows' milk has 
the same ferments as has human milk, except the amylolytic fer- 
ment, and also a salol splitting element that has been discovered 
by Nobecourt and Merklen in the milk of woman. 

Butter is a milk product in daily use, and is one of the 
foods most used in our diet ; and as it. is consumed in connection 
with carbohydrates, we will refer to it later, when discussing the 
question of carbohydrates generally; but we may mention here 
that butter must be taken only in a fresh condition, and it should 
not contain a greater proportion of salt than 2.5 grains per ounce, 
for reasons we have so often insisted upon in our general remarks 
on food when referring to common salt, and also in the chapter 
on the hygiene of the kidneys. When butter is in a rancid condi- 
tion it produces acid fermentation in the stomach, and also dis- 
orders of the intestinal functions. 

Cheese is a milk product very rich in fat, consisting of the 
coagulated casein of the milk fats and salts. American, Cana- 
dian, and English cheese are manufactured from pure milk, while 
the majority of cheeses of other manufacture are made from 
skimmed milk. A very nutritive cheese is made in Norway 
from the pure milk of goats; this has a very pleasant taste and 
is very easy to digest. By moderately pressing fresh curds cream 



Protcid Food. 299 



cheese is made; and we are of the opinion that in this form it 
is more hygienic than old cheese, and we therefore give the 
preference to cream cheese, or to cheese made from pure milk that 
is not old or sour. Cheese is a very valuable article of nourish- 
ment on account of the large amount of albumin and fat that it 
contains. Gervais and other sorts of cream cheese have a very 
high percentage of fat. 

Dr. Haig 2 recommends cheese as a valuable article of food 
in the dietetic treatment of uric acid diathesis. It has also the 
great advantage of being able to check intestinal putrefaction, 
owing to its milk and fatty acid contents. 

On the other hand, sometimes very old cheese may cause 
intestinal putrefaction, with symptoms of intoxication, and 
serious catarrh of the intestines. Professor Vaughan, of Ann 
Arbor, found toxic ptomaine bodies in cheese and old and stale 
milk. 

Many people are unable to digest cheese well ; others develop 
skin eruptions or acne after eating it; but, for those who can 
take it, it is very valuable as an article of diet when a lacto- 
vegetarian regimen is followed, as suggested in our general 
remarks on diet. 

In addition to milk and meat, the next most important ani- 
mal food is eggs, which are very rich in a most soluble ani- 
mal albumin, and also in a substance which plays an important 
part in the structure of the nervous system lecithin. According 
to Konig 3 chicken's eggs have, in their natural watery condition, 
13 per cent, of albumin and 0.3 per cent, of fat; and 89 per cent, 
of albumin and 2. per cent, of fat in the dried substance of the 
white part ; whereas the yolk, in the natural watery state, contains 
16 per cent, of albumin and 32 per cent, of fat, while, if dried, 33 
per cent, of albumin and 65 per cent, of fat. Eggs also contain 
much lime. 



2 Haig: LOG. cit. 

3T. Konig: "Chemie der menschlichen Nahriing und Genussmittel," sec- 
ond edition, Berlin, 1882. 



300 Old Age Deferred. 



Eggs with milk, carbohydrates, and fat together constitute 
a food which, in our opinion, is the most perfect, and one which 
will enable us to live a longer life in perfect health, even with 
a complete exclusion of meat; though if we take in addition a 
little of this latter at dinner we may increase considerably in 
weight, notwithstanding bodily exercise, as the author found from 
personal experience and from observations on a series of patients. 
Therefore, we again repeat that the above appears to be the most 
beneficial diet to follow if we wish to obey the dictates of health 
and enjoy a prosperous long life. 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 



ON CARBOHYDRATES AND FATS, AND THE GREAT ADVANTAGES OF 
VEGETABLES AND FRUIT. 

SPEAKING generally, by the title "carbohydrates" is prin- 
cipally meant vegetable food, in the same way that by "albu- 
minous" animal food is mainly designated. Still there are 
vegetables which contain more albumin in their natural watery 
condition than meat; thus peas contain 23 per cent, of albumin, 
whereas lean beef has barely 21 per cent., and fat beef only 17 
per cent. But one thing must especially be considered, and that 
is the fact that a considerable portion of peas (about 28 per 
cent.) is not absorbed, as Rubner has shown, whereas nearly the 
whole albumin contents of lean beef is. 

Most albumin is found in leguminous vegetables, such as 
peas, beans, and lentils ; and these are also rich in carbohydrates, 
as will be seen from the following table of percentages by Rubner, 
in which reference is also made to the nutritive value of our most 
important fresh vegetable foods : 



Food. 


Albumin. 


Fat. 


Carbohy- 
drates. 


Cellulose. 


Calories. 


Flour of peas 


OK, 7 


1 8 


57 2 


1 3 


362 


Flour of beans . . . 


00 <>. 


2 1 


58 9 


1 8 


363 


Flour of lentils 


OK 7 


1 9 


56 8 


2 1 


364 


Flour of rice 


6 9 


5 


77 6 


1 


351 


Flour of Indian corn 


14 


3 8 


67 6 


3 1 


382 




10 2 


9 


74 7 


3 


357 


Flour of rye 


10 Q 


4 8 


70 5 


1 2 


383 


Wheat bread 


fi 8 


8 


57 4 


4 


252 


Rye bread 


6 


5 


47 8 


3 


226 


Potatoes 


2 1 


1 


21 


7 


98 


Carrots 


1.0 


0.2 


4.4 


1.4 


50 



From the above we see that peas, beans, and lentils have 
the most nutritive properties, for they contain not only much 
albumin but also much carbohydrates, and also more fat (except 
in the case of ground Indian corn and rye), than the other above- 
mentioned vegetables. 

(301) 



302 Old Age Deferred. 



Thus we shall not be surprised to learn that we can thrive 
very well for a long time by using such exclusively for food, as 
has been proved by the experiments of Rubner and Woroschi- 
loff. The drawback to this kind of food is that it requires the 
stomach and intestinal juices to perform much more work, for 
reasons already mentioned; and, in consequence, less of it is 
utilized; and, after a certain time, the development of stomach 
and intestinal troubles is facilitated. 

Another drawback attending vegetables is that they contain 
purin bodies and form uric acid, indeed in considerable quan- 
tities, especially peas and beans, as Walker Hall discovered from 
experiments conducted in the Caroline Institution at Stock- 
holm. Of the various kinds of cereal foods rice forms the least 
uric acid, and also, as already mentioned, contains the least salt, 
for both of which reasons it is the best food for the kidneys. 
It is, at the same time, a very valuable nutritive food, as it con- 
tains a very large quantity of carbohydrates, viz. : 77.6 per 
cent., and almost the least cellulose of all foodstuffs, as shown 
in the table above ; but it is very poor in fat, and has also but a 
small amount of albumin. As it contains so little proteid and 
fat its adoption by people with vegetarian proclivities necessi- 
tates the simultaneous use of leguminous vegetables and of fats. 
It has the advantage over leguminous vegetables in that its starch 
components are extremely digestible. Thus it is the most valu- 
able vegetable food, in spite of its being poor in mineral matters. 

Granted the enormous value of rice as a foodstuff, we must 
express our surprise that it enters in so small a degree into our 
daily diet. In Europe, and in other parts of the world where 
persons of European descent reside, as also in America, the 
potato takes the same place as rice does in Asiatic countries, 
though the former is much less rich in nutritive Qualities, as we 
will show later on. 

Rice must be a most excellent food, for the natives of 



l Walker Hall: Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, p. 868, 1903. 



Advantages of Vegetables and Fruit. 303 

Asiatic countries, who live almost exclusively on this, offer us 
examples of great tenacity, and of resistance against bodily 
fatigue. Take the Japanese for example. Their coolies, as 
shown already, are able to do enormous muscular work on rice 
and fish food, and in athletics, such as jiujitsiu, they present a 
great example of muscular strength, though it cannot be denied 
that it is more their dexterity and knack than their superiority 
in mere strength that leads them to victory. That by means of 
rice diet, as by carbohydrates, great muscular energy can be 
obtained, is a well-known physiological fact. 

The starchy portion is converted, through the digestive 
ferments in the saliva, pancreatic, and intestinal juices, into dex- 
trin and grape sugar; absorbed through the intestines, it is 
deposited in the form of glycogen in the liver, the muscles also 
absorbing a large part of this glycogen. Through work this 
glycogen is exhausted. Thus work is performed mainly at the 
expense of the carbohydrates, which are the prime generators of 
muscular energy. We have also seen that the above-mentioned 
Japanese coolies perform their incredible muscular efforts largely 
on such food only. Still, a part of the muscular energy of the 
body can also be provided by the proteids and fats. 

Carbohydrate foods, and especially those that are poor in 
fatty contents, such as rice, and especially potatoes, which are the 
most deficient of all (having but o.i per cent, of fat), necessitate 
the simultaneous use also of fat; for this kind of exclusively 
carbohydrate diet would invariably lead to starvation unless 
there was a plentiful supply of fat with it ; and the best and most 
agreeable form to introduce fat into the body is by means of 
butter. 

Butter is very nutritious, as it contains, according to Rub- 
ner, 83.1 per cent, of fat, 0.9 per cent, of albumin, and 0.5 per 
cent, of carbohydrates. One hundred grammes of butter contain, 
according to Rubner, 779 calories. In addition to the above, 
butter also contains salts, and from 8 to 12 per cent, of water. 
A diet rich in carbohydrates could not be well assimilated with- 



304 Old Age Deferred. 



out butter ; but, at the same time, the abundant use of the latter 
also necessitates the use of carbohydrates, which are the best 
vehicle for butter ; therefore, when in diabetes we prescribe much 
butter or other fats, we make it a rule, also, to give some kind of 
food that contains some amount of carbohydrates, such as brown 
bread or green vegetables, or sometimes, in mild cases, also 
boiled potatoes. 

Potatoes, when new and watery, contain 16 per cent, of 
carbohydrates ; when they are old, 22 per cent. In many Euro- 
pean countries they form a most important article of diet. 
Though, as shown in the foregoing table, they contain only 
2 per cent, of proteids, they contain also important salts, 
such as a certain amount of citric acid and citrates of potassium, 
sodium, and lime. Thus potatoes, by means of these salts, 
are also an alkaline food, and if consumed in very large quan- 
tities, the acidity of the urine can become much diminished. 
These salts are burned in the body, and the potassium is then 
transformed into a carbonate salt. Mosse recommends potatoes 
in large quantities as a preventive of diabetes. 

Thus, after food which is rich in such vegetables as potatoes, 
or after fruit with much fruit acids, the urine can become less 
acid; but after food that abounds in proteids the urine becomes 
acid. This happens after eating much meat, or leguminous 
vegetables rich in proteids. Such a very acid urine is often passed 
by diabetics; therefore in their diet a certain amount of fruits, 
rich in salts but poor in sugar, may give good results. 

The most rational diet is that which combines all the 
principal items of nourishment in the greatest proportion pro- 
teids, as from such the body is built up and waste tissues re- 
placed ; next in proportion carbohydrates, from which, as already 
shown, we obtain muscular energy ; and to a smaller extent than 
the two preceding must be taken fat, which serves to produce 
heat in the body. Besides these three important constituents 
there is a further class of valuable substances indispensable for 
our well being, and these are the mineral matters. From ex- 



Advantages of Vegetables and Fruit. 305 

periments made by Lunin 2 in Bunge's laboratory, and by Forster, 3 
it has been shown that animals cannot live if fed on food 
that is devoid of mineral matters; and the latter savant has 
further shown that animals can live longer without any food at 
all than with food that has no salt whatever. We need these 
salts for different purposes, such as building up the skeleton; 
and the condition of the teeth depends also on the richness of 
our bodies in lime, and in order to obtain this it is indispensable 
to introduce food that contains a maximum of it. This is of 
special importance in the nutrition of children. 

We give below a table by Bunge showing the amount of 
lime contained in many of our common articles of diet; 100 
grammes of dried substance yields milligrammes of lime: 

Cows' milk 1510 Dates 108 

Human milk 243 White of egg 130 

Strawberries 483 Potatoes 100 

Figs 400 Pears 95 

Yolk of eggs 380 Malaga grapes 60 

Prunes 160 Graham bread 77 

Peas 137 But beef, only 24 

Probably no cell growth can take place without lime, and 
even if grown animals are fed on a diet containing no lime 
they soon become weak and will certainly die at some time from 
it ; therefore not only children, but adults also, must obtain a suf- 
ficient quantity of this, and milk or water that contains lime is 
certainly the best means by which to get it. Very interesting are 
the observations of Roese, 3a showing that in parts of Germany 
where water poor in lime is drunk less people are fit for military 
service and the teeth of the population generally are in bad condi- 
tion. Lime is indispensable for our body, for it has a favorable 
influence upon the work of the heart, the secretion of stomach 
juice, and the movements of the intestines ; it increases the quan- 

2 Lunin: Diss Dorpat, 1880. Zeitschrift fiir Physiolog. Chemie, vol. 
v. March 1, 1881 ; quoted after Bunge. 

3 Foster: Zeitschrift fur Biologie, vol. ix, p. 247, 1873; quoted after 
Bunge. 

3 a Roese, "Erdsalzarmuth und Entartung," Berlin, 1908.' 

20 



306 Old Age Deferred. 



tity of the urine ; and, as Lehmann, Posner, and v. Noorden have 
shown, the carbonate of lime dissolves uric acid. 

Another most important mineral salt is iron, this being an 
essential element of the haemoglobin of the blood. This latter is 
the red coloring matter of the blood, and consists of the combina- 
tion of an albuminous body-globulin with a ferruginous body, 
the haematin. According to Bunge, 4 a man weighing 70 kilos has 
in his blood 3.2 grains of iron, and according to Schmidt from 
2.4 to 2.7 grains. 

Bunge maintains that organic iron is more readily absorbed 
than inorganic iron, and that the best way to obtain sufficient iron 
in the body will be to choose a food that is rich in iron. 

We present below a table by Bunge, showing the various 
articles of food that contain the greatest percentage of iron; 100 
grammes dried substance contain milligrammes of iron: 

Pig's blood 226 Peas 6.2 to 6.6 

Spinach 33 to 39 Potatoes 6.4 

Asparagus 20 Huckleberries 5.7 

Yolk of eggs 10 to 24 Grapes 5.6 

Beef 17 Wheat 5.5 

Cabbage, green leaves 17 Rye 4.9 

Apples 13 Barley 4.5 

Red cherries 10 Raspberries 3.9 

Almonds 9.5 Figs 3.7 

Lentils 9.5 Human milk 2.3 to 3.1 

Strawberries 8.6 to 9.3 Cows' milk 2.3 

Carrots 8.6 Dates 2.1 

White beans 6.2 to 6.6 Pears 2.0 

Black cherries 7.2 But rice, only 1.0 to 2.0 

We thus see that certain kinds of fruits and vegetables are 
noticeably very rich, not only in lime, but also in iron; such are 
strawberries, Malaga or California grapes, peas, potatoes, etc. 

If not rich in lime, yet, on the other hand, rich in iron, are 
certain vegetables and fruits, such as spinach, asparagus, the 
outer leaves of cabbages, lentils, almonds, apples, cherries, etc. 

As it is very probable that organic iron is more easily 
assimilated than inorganic, it would be advisable in those cases 

4 Bunge : Loo. cit. 



Advantages of Vegetables and Fruit. 307 

which require a better nutrition of the blood and an increase 
of its contents in iron, to give plentifully the above-named vege- 
tables and fruits. 

The fruits mentioned as being rich in iron, such as apples and 
cherries, or in iron and lime, such as strawberries and grapes, 
can not only increase the amount of iron in the blood, but increase 
its alkalinity; and at any rate if they cannot increase it they can 
at least preserve it ; and not in the blood only, but also in the other 
fluids of the body, this being effected through the acids contained 
in such vegetables, such as citric, tartaric, malic, acetic, and oxalic 
acids, which are either in a free state or in combination with 
alkalies, as alkaline salts. After the combustion of the acids in 
the body they appear as carbonates, thus increasing the alkalinity 
of the blood and other fluids. 

Of the above acids, grape-fruit contains mostly citric acid, 
as also do oranges, lemons, gooseberries, etc.; apples and peas 
contain malic acid, and grape juice, tartaric acid. 

There can be no doubt that the above-named fruits and 
vegetables and let us not omit the important potato are able 
to do us good service in the prevention and treatment of the 
condition of acid intoxication that we find in severe forms of 
diabetes or in serious disorders of the liver ; but also in uric 
acid diathesis they can render valuable assistance. 

For a long time past through various kinds of fruit, espe- 
cially berries, various cases of gout have been successfully 
treated. Strawberries, cherries, and apples especially have been 
recommended in such conditions, and the value of such a pre- 
scription has been confirmed by the experiments of J. Weiss, 5 
made in Bunge's laboratory. We also used grapes in large 
quantities, besides the above-named fruits. 

In case of gravel, also, where the concrements consist of 
uric acid, the administering of such fruit can give beneficial 
results. 



5J. Weiss: Zeitsclirift fur Physiolog. Cheraie, vc 1. xxv, p. 303, 1898; voL 
ii, p. 216. 



308 Old Age Deferred. 



Besides mineral salts and vegetable acids, fruits and vege- 
tables contain a third important substance, which is cellulose, 
the framework of their cell tissues. Although this is very dif- 
ficult to digest, still there can be no doubt, from the experiments 
made on animals and also on man by Weiske, 6 that cellulose is 
also a nourishing food, for he proved on himself and another 
person that from 46 per cent, to 65 per cent, of the cellulose can 
be digested. 

The chief advantage, however, of cellulose does not lie in 
its nourishing properties, which are not great, but in the fact that 
it acts as the best natural stimulus to the peristaltic movements 
of the intestines. Thus food that contains such a residue (which 
is contained most largely in vegetables and fruit) is also the best 
to use if we desire to keep the intestines open and to observe the 
most important precept of their hygiene. This hygienic condition 
can also be much advanced by vegetables of the cereal kind, 
which, as shown in the chapter on hygiene of the intestines, 
may act as a disinfectant of the same through the milk acid that 
is formed therefrom in the intestines. 

Vegetables and fruit have thus very great advantages, and 
even in winter our daily diet should consist plentifully of them, 
as grape-fruit, oranges, etc., can be obtained at that time of the 
year. But when vegetables and fruit are exclusively used as a 
diet they present certain dangers, as we point out in the next 
chapter on the advantages and disadvantages of a vegetarian diet. 



6 Weiske : Zeitschrift fur Biologie, vol. vi, p. 456. 



CHAPTER XXXVII. 

ON THE ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF A 
VEGETARIAN DIET. 

OWING to certain peculiarities in our anatomical construc- 
tion we are not intended by Nature to be vegetarians. This is 
amply demonstrated when we consider the formation of our 
teeth. These are neither the teeth of carnivorous nor of herbiv- 
orous animals. We have, in fact, teeth similar to those found 
among 1 omnivorous animals, such as the dog and pig, while our 
whole metabolism, the transformation and assimilation of food 
in our bodies, presents great similarity to that of the dog. 

The construction of our intestines is further evidence that 
Nature did not intend us to be numbered among the herbivorous 
animals, which are required to have an enormously long intestine 
to store up and assimilate the very large quantity of herbs or 
vegetables which are necessary to satisfy their wants. We should 
have to possess an intestine many times longer than we are pro- 
vided with in order to be able to exist on vegetables alone; 
and even with such an intestine it would be very difficult for us 
to live comfortably for a long period on a purely vege- 
tarian diet. It is, however, certainly possible to exist on such 
a diet for a certain time ; and it may be of direct advantage for 
those persons who have overtaxed their digestive organs by large 
quantities of meat food, as it will afford the said organs a well 
merited rest. In order to live for a long period without risk 
on a vegetarian diet, it is necessary to add certain products of 
animal sources, such as milk and eggs. We know from personal 
experience that with a vegetarian diet supplemented by cereals, 
especially rice, milk, butter, and eggs, it is possible to exist very 
comfortably for a long time, and to thrive on it, for we have 
frequently witnessed a considerable increase in the weight of the 

(309) 



310 Old Age Deferred. 



body. This experience we have also gained and confirmed by 
personal test. 

A vegetarian diet, when supplemented by milk and butter, 
can be indulged in for a considerable time, and advantage may 
be gained therefrom. In many cases of nervous diseases it is 
of excellent value, especially in neurasthenia and hysteria, 
Graves's disease, myxcedema, etc., when meat food is deleterious, 
for reasons we have often given. With such a diet we can also 
avoid all the dangers which threaten us from the formation of 
uric acid. We must, however, avoid taking in large quantities of 
such vegetables as beans, peas, etc., which, according to Walker 
Hall, contain purin bodies, the mother substances of uric acid. 

Rice is the vegetable which will form the least uric acid, 
and it is at the same time one of the most nourishing of vege- 
tarian foods, as it contains 77 per cent, of carbohydrates. 

Thus with vegetarian diet we can avoid, in great proba- 
bility, those diseases which arise from an excessive formation 
of uric acid. As Professor Dettweiler, 1 of Freiburg, demon- 
strated at the German Congress of Medicine in 1907, the vis- 
cosity of blood is greatly diminished by a vegetarian diet. As 
gout is a disease which is due, in all probability, to a retention 
of uric acid (after preliminary changes in the thyroid and kid- 
neys, as we have pointed out in a communication to the Paris 
Biological Society, February 25, 1907), a long extended vege- 
tarian diet can unquestionably be of a great benefit for the pre- 
vention and treatment of this disease. It is, however, necessary 
that such a diet should be prescribed for a very long time (for 
several months at least) if we desire to reap the full benefit 
from it. 

To prevent the development of diabetes, also, especially in 
cases of children of diabetic parents, a vegetarian diet can be 
of great use. In the chapter on the deleterious action of ex- 
cessive meat food, we refer in detail to the fact that diabetes is 
most often found in persons addicted to much meat food, espe- 

1 Dettweiler: German Congress of Internal Medicine, 1905. 



Advantages and Disadvantages of a Vegetarian Diet. 311 

cially if carbohydrates are taken in large quantities at the same 
time. Obesity is seldom found in persons who live on a vegeta- 
rian diet. Carbohydrates can be taken in large quantities without 
producing obesity, if only meat is not taken at the same time in 
more than a limited amount. 

Arteriosclerosis is very seldom found in persons who have 
been addicted for many years to vegetarianism. Not only is 
this due to the fact that a vegetarian diet is the least deleterious 
to the circulatory system, but as we have mentioned above, the 
viscosity of the blood is also diminished; but with a vegetarian 
diet, coupled with milk, there is much less intestinal putrefaction, 
if any, than with a meat diet. It is well known that the produc- 
tion of arterial sclerosis can be facilitated by the products of 
intestinal putrefaction. 

As Brissaud and Siccard have shown, the injection of ad- 
renalin and uric acid at the same time into animals produces 
atheromatosis in each case. We also know, from clinical ob- 
servation generally, that arteriosclerosis is of greater frequency 
among gouty people, and the frequency of diabetes among such 
can be attributed to arteriosclerotic changes in the pancreas 
(endarteritis obliterans, Flexner). 

Marcel Labbe has shown at the French Congress of Inter- 
nal Medicine in Paris, 1907, that a diet of cereals, milk, butter, 
and sugar diminishes the quantity of uric acid, while the addi- 
tion of nucleo-albumins augments it. 

Vegetarian diet is of great service to the intestines, their 
torpidity being thereby greatly overcome ; and if milk be taken at 
the same time intestinal putrefaction is checked and the tendency 
to catarrh improved. Such a diet is also of great value to other 
important organs: the thyroid, liver, and kidneys; as in cases 
where such are in a diseased condition, the chances of recovery 
or for a more prolonged life are much enhanced, because such a 
diet is least harmful to these organs. 

But the greatest advantages of a vegetarian diet are seen 
in the prevention of the ravages of old age by this means. By the 



312 Old Age Deferred. 



use of such a diet we can, to a certain extent, check the degen- 
eration of those organs which play the most important patho- 
logical roll in the development of old age, and which have 
already been mentioned several times, viz. : the thyroid, liver, 
and kidneys (see the hygiene of these organs). The degenera- 
tion of these may produce the retention of toxic products and a 
condition of autointoxication; but by a vegetarian diet, coupled 
with milk, these troubles may be more easily avoided. 

A vegetarian diet, with milk and a few eggs daily, is the 
best nourishment for old people; the greater the age the more 
of the latter should be taken. In fact, persons advanced in age 
will do well to eat very little meat, for reasons which are fully 
given in the chapter on the dangers of a too abundant meat diet. 

We have thus seen that a vegetarian diet can give the best 
results, not only in the prevention and cure of many diseases, but 
also in the preservation of health in old age. It is a fact that vve 
often see persons who follow such a diet looking much fresher 
and more youthful than those who partake of much meat, espe- 
cially when they have passed the seventies. 

But if milk and vegetarian diet, with a few eggs daily, can 
be taken for many years and yield good results, it is quite a 
different case with those people who are in the habit of living 
only on vegetables to the exclusion of any article of animal food ; 
such are vegetarian fanatics, and if they keep up this deleterious 
habit for a lengthened period, they must inevitably suffer for it. 

Even if we do not admit the pretensions of certain authors, 
who declare that the albumin of the vegetable is less nourishing 
than the albumin of animals, still it is impossible for us to intro- 
duce into our bodies the quantity of vegetables which would 
contain the number of calories necessary in order that we should 
not suffer from a deficiency of them, and at the same time would 
allow for waste. To satisfy the requirements of our bodies we 
would have to eat enormous quantities of vegetables snd thus 
overload the stomach and intestines, with the result that even the 
strongest stomach would undoubtedly give way after a certain 



'Advantages and Disadvantages of a Vegetarian Diet. 313 

time, and dyspepsia, especially sour stomach, and eventually 
atony, and in many cases even dilatation, of the stomach would 
follow; and abnormal fermentation would readily take place in 
the intestines after a certain time. Consider, also, what large 
amounts of enzymes, how much saliva, hydrochloric acid, bile, 
etc., must be produced in order to insure a good digestion and 
assimilation of the food, though it is of course true that the 
ferments, at least, can readily act in a very small degree upon 
large quantities of food. Vegetarian diet has also the drawback 
that, for reasons already mentioned, more salt must be taken 
when we partake of it. 

There are many people who develop hyperchlorhydria after a 
vegetarian diet, and we frequently had to have our patients aban- 
don such a diet when they got acid stomachs ; and they only re- 
covered from these ill effects after animal food had been given 
in certain quantities. It is certain that the present capacity of 
the stomach and intestines, and their present anatomical and his- 
tological structure, also, is not sufficient or adequate for the con- 
tinued use of a vegetarian diet, the greatest danger of which lies, 
however, in the threatening under-nutrition, and in consequence 
the imminent danger of bacterial infection. 

It is a positive pathological fact that under-nutrition (or 
defective nutrition) through lack of the necessary amount of 
proteids in the diet exposes one more to infection by bacilli. 
This is plainly to be seen every day, especially in regard to tuber- 
culosis; and as the best preventive to this we strongly recom- 
mend plenty of nutrition, especially rare meat and milk. We 
have personal knowledge of several cases of tuberculosis arising 
from a purely vegetarian diet (see, also, Chapter III). The 
findings of Grawitz 2 indicate that an insufficient proteid diet pre- 
disposes also to anaemia. The importance of this fact is empha- 
sized by Sajous who has shown (1903) that defective nutrition 
weakens the activity of the pituitary, thyroid and adrenals, the 



2 Grawitz: "Klinische Pathologie des Blutes." third edition, 1906. 



314 Old Age Deferred. 



products or secretions of which take an active part in the destruc- 
tion of bacteria and their tocsins. 

In our chapter on the destruction of toxic products by the 
liver, we referred to evidence gained from actual experiments, 
that under-nutrition predisposes to infection. We have referred 
to Roger and Gamier, who have proved that the liver loses its 
antitoxic properties in cases of under-nutrition, and it is prob- 
able that the other antitoxic organs exhibit a similar condition. 

There art two primary conditions on which infection de- 
pends: i. The invasion of the microbes. The greater their 
number and virulence the more easily will infection take place. 
2. The diminution of our normal resistance against infection, 
which, as we have seen in the third chapter, can be caused by 
different factors, among which is under-nutrition. 

In any case we are surrounded by countless millions of 
microbes every day, which are only too anxiously awaiting a 
favorable moment to attack us ; and should we be so foolish as to 
encourage their attacks by adopting fads in our nourishment? 

The greatest danger of a strictly vegetarian diet is for those 
persons whose parents suffered from chronic cachectic diseases, 
such as tuberculosis, chronic alcoholism, etc., in whose cases the 
perils of infection are much more menacing. Should such ex- 
pose themselves still more by insufficient nourishment, such a 
course can be called by no other name than culpable negligence, 
leading to suicide. It is the object of this book to demonstrate 
the best way to reach a ripe old age and to avoid disease ; it is, 
therefore, my duty to emphasize the dangers of a sole vege- 
tarian diet, especially for weak people. 

As the processes of oxidation are, as a rule, diminished in 
old age, especially in its advanced stage, such persons can exist 
on less food and need not introduce so many calories into their 
system; and as they also take less exercise, so they require less 
nourishment. Consequently, they can live better on a vegetarian 
diet than can the young and robust. Even then, however, it may 
be prejudicial to their health to live solely on vegetables, and it 



Advantages and Disadvantages of a Vegetarian Diet. 315 

will be necessary to, supplement this with milk and a few eggs 
daily. For young people such a diet, continued for a prolonged 
period, will present evils, and it would therefore be advisable not 
to continue such nourishment longer than four or six weeks, and 
then add meat once a day to the former diet of vegetables. This 
is mixed vegetarian diet, and should be interposed in the ordinary 
diet routine at intervals and at times of necessity. Thus when 
symptoms of over-nutrition may present themselves a purely vege- 
tarian regimen may be followed, but not for longer than three 
or four weeks ; but for those having a weak constitution and great 
tendency to infection, a purely vegetarian diet is not indicated, 
even for so short a time as a week. 

Judging from my own personal experience, I do not think 
it possible for persons who confine themselves solely to a vege- 
table diet to prosper and look well, especially if they exist on such 
insufficient food for several months, and still less so if they con- 
tinue such a course for a longer time. We know that all the 
people of our acquaintance who existed for a long time on 
such a diet, presented a pale, haggard and miserable appearance, 
so that we could not but pity them. We, personally, tried to fol- 
low their example, but after a short experience hunger forced us 
to abandon the idea. Even long and careful mastication did 
not satisfy our craving for food, so that we had to add milk, 
cheese, and eggs. We admit, however, that for those of an 
unhealthy constitution, requiring less food, and especially for 
those who are in the habit of overeating, 3 there may be found 
some satisfaction in such a system of under-nutrition ; but even 
they have no right "to call it a healthy method of nourishment. 
We have found, that as a whole, women can stand more easily, 
and also for a longer time, a vegetarian diet. 



3 As an illustration we may mention the amusing story of the rich Dutch- 
man, who, while en route to an Austrian watering place for the treatment 
of his obesity, was arrested in Germany for some imprudent utterances termed 
"lse majest," and after having been kept in prison for four months on a 
largely vegetarian diet came home as a slender man cured of his corpulency. 



316 Old Age Deferred. 



Those who point out by historical facts that man was des- 
tined to vegetarian diet may not be right, for it is certain that 
many thousands of years ago man was a fruit eater, when he 
also lived in trees. When he began to reside on terra firma, 
compelled to so do by the scarcity of fruit in consequence of 
the increase of humanity, he turned hunter and meat eater. 
When we visit ethnographical museums, we find that from 10 
to 5000 years before Christ man fashioned spear heads and 
knives from flint, with which he killed animals, upon the meat 
of which he subsisted ; and at such times he lived chiefly on meat 
and fish, only later becoming agriculturist and omnivorous in diet. 

Many believers in a sole vegetarian diet like to point to ani- 
mals as an example, for these, they maintain, prosper on, and are 
contented with herbs. Let us follow up this statement and see 
what we find to be the case in the animal world. 

We maintain that the truth of the matter is that there are 
few animals of the nobler kind to be found among those existing 
on herbs. We find the monarchs of the animals among the 
carnivorous class, and if we take them as our example, the cour- 
age and valor of the lion will appeal to us far more forcibly than 
the cowardice and helplessness of the sheep. 

Energy gained by the addition of a certain amount of ani- 
mal food does not exclude the nobler qualities peculiar to the 
human brain, freed from fads and fanaticism, and it is a valuable 
factor in combating the numerous vicissitudes of life. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 

ON THE DANGERS OF A Too ABUNDANT MEAT DIET A FEW 
HINTS ON THE DIETETICS OF MEAT. 

MOST of us have experienced a feeling of heaviness after 
a dinner consisting of rich meat, and not infrequently there is 
also a sensation of drowsiness after it, which is not easy to over- 
come. The first may be due to the difficulty of digestion; but 
we may not experience this after taking even twice as much 
carbohydrate and green vegetable food. We know, from the 
observations on food already referred to, that meat is far more 
digestible, unless it contains much connective tissue and sinewy 
matter, than the majority of cereals and green vegetables, and 
especially fruit; and yet after a dinner of the latter we will not 
feel so heavy as after a meal in which we have taken a smaller 
amount of food, but of which the greater part was meat. 

This feeling of heaviness can, therefore, not be attributed 
to difficulty of digestion, and as there is, at the same time, a 
greater disinclination to work and a feeling of sleepiness after 
a meal with much meat than after one of vegetables alone, or of 
milk and vegetables, meat must, undoubtedly, have a more dele- 
terious effect upon the central nervous system than have other 
kinds of food. 

That this mere clinical observation is not fallacious is also 
shown by the fact that after eating much meat nervous dis- 
orders are far more frequent; and we find many more instances 
of neurasthenia and hysteria among eaters of much meat than 
among vegetarians; and in the treatment of many nervous dis- 
orders far better results are obtained after excluding meat from 
the diet. 

It is noticeable in a marked degree in Graves's disease, and 
also in myxcedema, that patients suffering from ,them will not 

(317) 



318 ' Old Age Deferred. 



improve with meat, and after partaking of it their symptoms 
are aggravated. This is only natural, as these diseases are 
caused by changes in the thyroid gland, to which we have referred 
in Chapter II, where we have also shown that this gland under- 
goes changes through an overabundance of meat. We have 
there mentioned the very interesting experiments of Leo Breis- 
acher, of Detroit, and of Blum, of Frankfort, and others. But 
we would wish to remark here that it has been demonstrated by 
the experiments of Chalmers Watson, of Edinburgh, that when 
certain animals, such as fowls, eat much meat to the exclusion of 
all other kinds of food, they present great enlargement of the 
follicles of the thyroid gland, and that rats, kept on the same 
diet, exhibit even a degeneration of the gland, which can even go 
to the extent of presenting the clinical picture of Graves's disease. 
Not only the thyroid, but the other ductless glands also, have been 
found altered after an exclusive meat diet. Forsyth 1 found also 
an enlargement of the follicles of the pituitary body in birds of 
prey, and Houssaye 2 found that chickens lost their fertility after 
such a diet, which affected their ovaries. 

There are numerous clinical and anatomo-pathological evi- 
dences to show that the other ductless glands also that is, the 
glands with internal secretion, such as the liver, kidneys, and 
even also the pancreas are altered by an abundance of meat 
food if long continued. 

We have already dwelt on the fact that the liver has the 
function of destroying the harmful products that are formed 
by the decomposition of meat food. Thus the more meat we 
eat the more work is thrown on the liver, which may first be- 
come hyperaemic, but, through the continuation of the harmful 
agency more deleterious conditions may develop. Every physi- 
cian can observe daily, as we have, that when patients suffering 
from disorders of the liver take meat, they gradually get worse, 
but when they give up meat they soon get better. If, therefore, 

1 Forsyth: Lancet, 1907. 

2 Houssaye: C. R. Acad6mie des Sciences, p. 934, 1903. 



The Dietetics of Meat. 319 

we desire to retain our vitality for a long time, it is best for us 
not to take too much meat. 

In the same way the kidneys can also be kept in good con- 
dition if too much meat be not taken. These eliminate the end- 
products of meat food, and the more of such products that pass 
through the kidneys, the more of them are taken from the 
blood and excreted by means of the fine epithelia of the kidney 
tubules, and thus the more is the work done by these organs ; and 
we have mentioned that any over-work of an organ may be fol- 
lowed by its exhaustion. As a consequence of eating meat some- 
times very harmful products pass through the kidneys, especially 
in the case of preserved, strongly seasoned, or spiced meat, for 
such preserved food may contain disease germs, ptomaine bodies, 
mineral poisons, etc. But even the passage of normal end- 
products of meaty food for example, if urea be continually 
passed for years in large quantities can produce serious altera- 
tions. Many authorities, such as Dr. James Tyson, of Phila- 
delphia, who is well known by his works on the kidneys, attribute 
to the very frequent taking of such food many cases of interstitial 
nephritis; and nearly all such authorities, including Senator, of 
Berlin, prohibit the use of meat in most of the disorders of the 
kidneys. But we have already referred to the danger of such a 
diet to the liver and kidneys, and it is only because of the im- 
portance of the subject that we have again referred to the matter. 

There is some clinical evidence in favor of the opinion that 
the pancreas may also be altered by an abundant meat diet. We 
know that when this organ is diseased we may discover a quan- 
tity of unabsorbed meat fibers in the faeces, indicating that the 
pancreas has failed to fulfill its task of assisting in the digestion 
of meat by the production of its ferment the trypsin. Meat, 
when taken in large quantities, can thus cause the pancreas con- 
siderable overwork, which, in the long run, as is well-known, 
may cause trouble, as is shown by the fact learned from observa- 
tion, that diabetes develops generally in meat eaters. Even in 
dogs an abundant meat diet can produce spontaneous diabetes, a 



320 Old Age Deferred. 



fact we have already published. Diabetes may not only be due to 
the changes in the pancreas, but also as we have shown 2 * to those 
in the thyroid gland, consequent upon such nourishment. 

It is a very important fact that much meat can become most 
injurious to diabetic patients, and, as v. Noorden 3 observed, even 
slight cases of diabetes can be transformed into severe ones 
in consequence of such a diet ; thus, in our opinion, in all severe 
cases of this disease meat should be prohibited. 

Not only can diabetes, especially if of an hereditary nature, 
be increased by abundant meat food, but gout also, as is well 
known, may be caused thereby, and, existing, may be made worse. 
Such diet not only provokes the elimination of sugar, but of uric 
acid as well, which latter is a cause of gout. 

Many authorities, especially Walker Hall and Haig, have 
demonstrated that even small quantities of meat can produce uric 
acid, especially when such meat contains a large quantity of 
nuclein bodies from which uric acid can be formed, such as the 
glandular organs, especially kidneys, liver, sweetbreads, short- 
bread, etc. 

Meat food in abundance is also deleterious to other organs, 
as, for instance, to the intestines, which, receiving a food so easily 
digested and absorbed, lack the natural stimulus for good peristal- 
tic movements, which can best be produced by a cellulose food 
like vegetables and fruit. 

The greatest danger to the circulatory apparatus lies in 
meat, for, as already mentioned, the viscosity of the blood is 
thereby increased, as discovered by Determann, 4 and thus its cir- 
culation through the blood-vessels impaired. It is a well-estab- 
lished fact that arteriosclerosis can very often be observed in 
persons who have been largely addicted to a meat diet for a long 
time. Apoplexy also is more frequent among such. 



2Lorand: "Die rationelle Behandlung der Zuckerkrankheit," second 
edition, Berlin, 1909. 

3 v. Noorden : Deutscher Naturforscher Congress, 1902. 

4 Congress fttr Innere Medicin, 1904. 



The Dietetics of Meat. 321 

These conditions can, however, be improved if the meat 
be suppressed and replaced by a vegetarian diet. 

It would lead us beyond the limits of this book if we at- 
tempted to point out in an exhaustive manner various other 
dangerous consequences of a too abundant meat diet. All we 
desire is to discuss the question whether, in view of the various 
dangers to which a meat diet may lead, to which we have re- 
ferred, we should or should not give up meat. 

We think we should be guilty of fanatical prejudice if, 
because of the above accounts of the dangerous consequences 
ensuing on an unlimited abuse of meat, we should discard meat 
entirely, even in small quantities. Such a course is, indeed, 
strongly advocated by Haig, 5 but we cannot follow him so far. 

It is quite true that even a moderate amount of meat may 
create uric acid, but there is not one hour out of the twenty-four 
that we do not produce a small amount of uric acid in our sys- 
tem, even if we exclude food of every description, such being the 
uric acid produced endogenously through the decomposition of 
the nuclein-containing albuminous bodies in the system, and 
which it is hardly possible to avoid; and if our kidneys be in 
good condition they will easily eliminate this small amount. 

Should we therefore prohibit a person of 50 or 60, who 
has been in the habit of eating meat every day of his life since 
childhood, and who is in quite a normal state of health, from 
taking a moderate amount of meat once a day, and thus 
knock him out of all his old habits ? We do not think this would 
be a wise proceeding on the part of any physician of wide clinical 
experience and of unprejudiced mind, as everyone must have 
observed that such a radical change in the habits of a lifetime 
may lead to consequences unfavorable to the general health. 
No! We desire to be temperate ourselves and to preach mod- 
eration. We must bear in mind that it is the immoderate use 
of meat that is to be condemned, and not its use in small quan- 



5 Haig: "Uric Acid in the Causation of Disease," sixth edition, London, 
1904. 

21 



322 Old Age Deferred. 



titles. We may, therefore, allow a moderate amount of meat, 
once a day, well cooked to destroy, if possible, certain harmful 
matters which can be rendered innocuous by sufficient cooking; 
and, by preference, we recommend boiled meat, as such food has 
all the nourishing properties of roast meat but less extractive 
substances, which might, perhaps, irritate the kidneys. Fresh 
meat should be taken in preference to canned food, as in the latter 
at times there is present certain additional matter, such as pre- 
servative salts, boracic acid, etc. 

White meat is always preferable to red, although it is the 
pretension of Offer and Rosenquist that in their action both kinds 
of meat are similar; still, for clinical reasons, we agree with 
Professor Senator 6 who, from his experience, considers white 
meat better for the kidneys. The correctness of this opinion has 
been proved recently by the researches of Max Adler. 6a We have 
seen the sugar disappear from the urine of our diabetic patients 
when they were placed upon a diet poor in extractive substances, 
such as fish (except salmon -and carp), veal, etc., and vegetables 
poor in carbohydrates; indeed, after such a diet they were able 
to tolerate quantities* of carbohydrates without eliminating sugar. 
It is also of importance to remember that meats containing many 
extractive substances, or broths made from such meats, are 
capable of greatly increasing the blood pressure; for this reason 
red meats should be forbidden to the aged. The meat of animals 
that have been hunted and subjected to great exhaustion before 
death should* not be used, or used only with very great modera- 
tion. Meat strongly seasoned and spiced, or pickled, should also 
not be eaten. Sausages should also be omitted from the diet. 
We must also remember that fish is also a meat food, although on 
account of the greater amount of water it contains and its more 
tender structure, and especially because of its smaller content of 
extractive, substances (except salmon, carp, etc.), it is preferable 
to meat proper; yet if taken in large quantities, especially such 



Senator : "Die Erkrankungen der Nieren," Nothnagel's Handbuch. 
6Adler: Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, 1908. 



The Dietetics of Meat. 323 

fish as salmon, it is quite as harmful as meat. At any rate fish, 
except the red-fleshed kind, should always be preferred to 
ordinary meat. 

It is best not to give meat to little children nor to per- 
sons in advanced years above 70, or earlier than this if 
they are decrepit. As found by Baumann, 7 Charrin, 8 Lafa- 
yette Mendel, 9 and others, the thyroid of infants contains no 
iodine; after the first year there is some, but even then very 
little. Baumann and Jollin 10 also found that the thyroid of old 
people contained only little iodine, which, as this is the main ele- 
ment of the thyroid gland, gives to such persons less chance of 
destroying toxic products ; and by reason of this no meat should 
be given either to little children or to persons of advanced age. 

We must also remember, as already mentioned, that pro- 
teid food is needed to build up the body, and this is not neces- 
sary in senility. All authorities agree that aged people require 
very little proteid in their food, and Prof. Magnus Levy 11 
accepts this opinion. There is, consequently, no necessity to 
force them to take meat, neither is it rational to permit its 
use, for they are more defenseless against the harmful products 
formed by the decomposition of meat than are younger people, for 
their thyroids and parathyroids, liver and kidneys, are degen- 
erated. Thus they would be able neither to destroy such products 
nor to eliminate them from the body. Exception may be made 
in the case of the aged who are in robust health and enjoying a 
green old age, for in such we may expect to find more active 
ductless glands, and they will therefore be better able to resist 
the dangers of meat food. 

There are certain precautionary measures that, perhaps, can 
mitigate such dangers; thus, by the daily use of water in pro- 



7 Baumann and Ross: Zeitschrift fur Phys. Chemie, 21-319, 1895: 22-1, 
1896. 

8 Charrin et Bouriet: C. R. Soc. biologic, c-2-339. 

9 L. Mendel : Journal of American Medical Assn., 3-2-'85. 

10 Jollin: Nbrd. Med. Arch., 1897, Test number. 

11 Magnus Levy: v. Noorden, "Pathologie der Stoffwechsels," i, 472. 



324 Old Age Deferred. 



portion to the amount of meat the end-products of the meat 
can be washed away. We should also with much meat eat also 
much fruit and vegetables. Abundant meat diet produces acids 
in the system; but, as mentioned in Chapter X, by means of 
green vegetables we can raise the alkalinity of the blood. 
Whether much or little meat be taken, sour milk, kefir, yogurth, 
or even ordinary milk and cheese should be taken also. We have 
not mentioned here another danger from meat diet, which is the 
putrefaction that may arise in the intestines, but on which we 
have enlarged in Chapter XIX. By means of sour or ordinary 
milk, or cheese, the putrefaction can be avoided, through the 
lactic acid formed. 

With a meat diet, especially when taken in large quantities, 
it is obvious that a good cleansing of the bowels will be all the 
more necessary, and this is best obtained by the addition to such a 
diet of fruit, vegetables, and sour milk. 

By precautions such as these the harm from a too abundant 
meat diet may be reduced or at least limited; but for those who 
are desirous of attaining an advanced old age, the greatest 
moderation in the matter of meat consumption is strongly rec- 
ommended. 

When we study the nature of the diet enjoyed by persons 
who have lived to and over 100, we find, indeed, exceedingly 
few who are great meat eaters; very many are persons who 
eat no meat at all; and in many cases, also, the original 
meat diet was subsequently abandoned in advanced age. Ac- 
cording to the report of the Collective Investigation Committee 
of the British Medical Association, the 55 centenarians whose 
cases they examined were, for the most part, small meat eaters. 12 



12 Quoted after Humphrey. 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 

ON THE GREAT ADVANTAGES OF MUCH MILK IN THE DIET FOR 
THE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF OLD AGE. 

WE have often observed that patients taking large quanti- 
ties of milk daily, together with eggs and vegetables, and little 
meat, soon begin to look better, and sometimes even younger. 
We have also observed upon ourselves the great advantage of 
such a diet in comparison with other diets. 

It is not surprising that persons using large quantities of 
milk daily look fresher and younger if we consider that when 
we take much fresh raw milk we are also taking extracts of 
various ductless glands, and especially of the thyroid. 

It has been shown by Bang, 1 Mosse, 2 and others, that the 
internal secretion of the thyroid passes into the milk. There 
are, indeed, several facts which prove that thyroid secretion is 
contained in the milk. As we know, the iodine in our body 
comes mainly from the thyroid, which, of all organs, is the rich- 
est in iodine. Now there can be no doubt that iodine enters 
the milk, for when we give iodine to the mother it can pass, by 
way of the milk, into the infant. As the thyroid of the infant, 
or of puppies, contains very little or no colloid substance, upon 
which, as shown by R. Hutchison and Oswald, the quantity of 
iodine depends, they must receive the iodine from the maternal 
milk. Mario Flamini (Revue mensuelle des maladies de 
Tenfance, 20, 97-120), by injecting iodipin into a goat, obtained 
milk containing as much as 0.12 gramme iodine to the liter. 
Another very important fact is that children suffering from con- 
genital myxcedema never show any symptom of this condition 



1 Bang: "Ueber die Aurscheidungs des Jodothyrius durch die Milch/ 
Berl. klin. Wochenschrift, Dec. 27, 1897. 

2 C. B. de 1'Academie de Medicine, 1898. 

(325) 



326 'Old Age Deferred. 



so long as they are taking their mothers' milk; but as soon as 
'they are weaned symptoms of myxcedema appear, which we 
must logically ascribe to want of thyroid secretion. 

Another fact, upon which we would like to insist, is that 
when we extirpate the thyroid gland of goats or other animals, 
their milk contains (as shown by Professor Lanz in the case of 
goats) a substance which acts upon the thyroid gland, dimin- 
ishing its activity. Logically, we think, we may conclude that 
the milk of goats with intact thyroids must contain a substance 
antagonistic to the substance contained in the milk of thyroidless 
goats. Such a substance is the thyroid secretion. 

Besides thyroid secretion the milk also contains important 
nutritive substances, like albumin, milk sugar, and fat; also 
lecithin, etc., certain ferments, and mineral matters, as lime, 
magnesia, iron, etc. (see, also, chapter on animal food). The 
valuable ferments which facilitate the digestion of the milk are, 
however, only contained in raw milk, and to a less extent in 
milk which is heated above 75 C. Behring has shown that even 
this temperature, if maintained as long as thirty minutes, is apt 
to deteriorate the milk. Pasteurized milk that is never heated 
above 70 C., and is cooled immediately afterward, contains a 
considerable amount of these important ferments. But if milk is 
heated to higher temperatures, as happens in boiling, the fer- 
ments are killed. It is of the greatest significance that raw milk 
has also the property to kill microbes to a certain extent. Thus 
Walter Hesse found in 1894 that the microbes of cholera died in 
raw milk. In experiments he has made recently with Hemp, 3 it 
was shown that raw milk of certain kinds of cattle had also the 
property to kill the bacilli of typhoid fever. But it is of the 
utmost importance to remember that these bactericidal properties 
of raw milk are destroyed if the milk is heated to 60 C. 
(140 F.). These authors have found that refrigerated milk, 
even if it is cooled down from 70 C., does not lose its bactericidal 
properties. 

3 Hemp: Verhandlungen des Congresses Deutscher Naturforscher und 
Aertze, Dresden, vol. i, p. 112, 1907. 



The Advantages of Milk in Old Age. 327 

There is a wonderful difference in the effects of boiled and 
raw milk. Animals, or children, never thrive so well on boiled 
as on raw milk. Professor Behring, of Marburg, 4 has shown 
that animals fed on milk heated to a high temperature never 
thrive well. Calves have been reared in Marburg, or on Bo- 
hemian or Hungarian farms, on boiled milk, and others on raw 
milk. Experiments with hundreds of such calves have shown 
that boiled milk is not a suitable food for them. 

In children, also, we can see the bad effects of using boiled 
milk. It has been shown by many authors that Barlow's dis- 
ease and rickets may be due to drinking overheated milk, espe- 
cially when such milk is not fresh. Behring has now shown by 
experiments that when calves are fed on boiled milk they 
acquire rickety deformities of the bones and scorbutic conditions. 
The majority of the calves died from exhausting diarrhoeas, just 
as do infants in large cities. 

Thus it is evident that we should always use raw milk, and 
only when there is doubt as to the origin of the milk should we 
heat it, and then not above 60 to 70 C. (140 F.), so as not to 
destroy all its valuable properties. Considering the enormous 
importance of this question for the public welfare, it would be 
advisable to put all establishments for the supply of milk under 
the control of physicians or veterinary surgeons. As the welfare 
of many children depends upon the condition of the cow that 
is giving them its milk, cows should be kept with great care and 
regarded as a kind of wet nurse. Just as prisoners, or men who 
work all day in close and badly ventilated rooms, are apt to 
develop tuberculosis; so, also, are cows if they are kept in dark 
stables with no fresh air. Therefore cows should be let out to 
pasture on the meadows every day, and kept there at night if the 
weather permits. The milk is also improved in quality if the 
cow gets some food rich in proteids in addition to her grain and 
hay. Every cow should be tested by tuberculin injections, and 
if this is positive the animal should be destroyed. The milking 
4 Behring: Beitrage ztir experimentellen Therapie, 8 fl, 1906. 



328 Old Age Deferred. 



of the cows should be done with scrupulous cleanliness. The 
udders and surrounding parts should be washed, and the milkers 
themselves should be dressed in clean white clothes, and their 
hands should be clean, preferably by washing them with some 
antiseptic liquid. Unless the cow is tubercular or otherwise sick, 
its milk never contains any harmful substances. As soon as it is 
obtained the milk should be put into an ice chest, as this is the 
best way to preserve it, and air should be excluded. It has been 
shown that milk cooled off to 160 C. does not lose its good 
qualities, and can be kept in fresh condition for many days. 

By undergoing acid fermentation milk does not lose its valu- 
able properties. Important substances like lecithin, iron, lime, 
native albumin, and valuable ferments are contained in such milk. 
Whey and buttermilk are also milk foods of the highest value. 

Besides its contents of internal secretions, valuable ferments, 
and mineral matters, milk must also be considered as an ideal 
form of nourishment owing to the fact that it contains all the 
necessary elements of human food. It is the most nourishing of 
all foods since it contains albumin, fat, and carbohydrates, the 
three main elements of human food, in large quantity. Good 
cows' milk contains about 35 grammes of albumin, 40 grains of 
milk sugar, and 35 to 40 grammes of fat to the liter. Thus if a 
person takes 2 liters of milk a day, or even less, 3 to 4 eggs, a little 
butter and several rolls, he can live comfortably without meat. 
We have made an experiment on ourselves by taking ij^ liters 
of milk, 4 eggs, 2, rolls, and 20 grammes butter a day as our only 
food, and after two weeks of such a diet, with a bodyweight 
of 68 kilos, we felt very well, and even lost no weight at the 
end of the trial. We have found in our own case, and in many 
patients, that with one plate of meat at dinner, together with 
vegetables and the above diet, with cheese, it is possible to live 
prosperously for months and to increase considerably in weight. 
The rosy cheeks of persons living on such a diet are the best 
proof of its efficiency. 

Those who do not like milk in large quantity may add a 



The Advantages of Milk in Old Age. 329 

little cocoa, or a little weak coffee to it. For those whose stom- 
achs cannot tolerate pure milk, a milk obtained by fermentation 
kefir is indicated. This can be prepared by fermenting 
cows' milk with grains of kefir. It should not be fermented, 
for most purposes, for longer than one-half a day. By virtue 
of the carbonic acid which it contains it has a soothing action 
upon the walls of the stomach, and also promotes a better 
flow of gastric juice. Thus it is more easily digested than ordi- 
nary milk, whose valuable properties, however, it retains. 

Milk is also of value when taken in large quantity, since it 
checks the formation of bacterial and toxic products in the intes- 
tine, which, as we know, is enormously rich in such products, 
especially after having eaten animal food, like meat. Milk sugar 
and lactic acid are very powerful antiseptic substances probably 
the best natural intestinal antiseptics of which we know. This 
fact is made use of by Metschnikoff in the production of his 
lactobacilline, by which, through the formation of milk acid, the 
multiplication of the intestinal bacilli can be checked, and thus, 
according to Metschnikoff, old age prevented to some extent (see, 
also, Chapters XIX and XX). 

It is a very interesting fact that in countries where much of 
a certain kind of acid milk is used (e.g., Bulgarian "yogurth," 
prepared with the aid of the Maya bacillus), there are many 
persons who live to be more than 100 (see Chapters VI and 
XIX). Some of the long-lived patriarchs whom we mention in 
this book, as Parr, who has lived to be over 152 years old, lived 
mainly on a milk diet. 

In addition to the above-mentioned properties of milk, this 
food has also the great advantage of throwing the minimum 
amount of work upon those organs whose duties are concerned 
with the assimilation of food and the elimination of its waste 
products. We have already mentioned that animals whose thy- 
roids have been extirpated can only survive if they are put on a 
milk diet. (Breisacher, 5 Blum. 6 ) This shows that when the 

5 Breisacher : Loo. cit. 
6 Blum: Loc. cit. 



330 Old Age Deferred. 



thyroid is extirpated or, what is the same thing, entirely degener- 
ated, only milk food can be tolerated, for the poisons of other 
food, like meat, are normally destroyed to a great extent by the 
thyroid gland. 

In old age there is greater or less degeneration of the thy- 
roid gland. Just as is the case with infants, whose thyroids are 
not yet developed, so also old people, as a general rule, are more 
helpless against poisons formed by the decomposition of meat. 
For such persons evidently, just as for infants, milk food is the 
best. 

Here, again, we see the similarity that exists between in- 
fancy and senility, and we realize the truth of the saying that in 
senility we return to childhood. That milk is the best food to 
keep the thyroid in good working order has been proved by the 
experimental researches of Fordyce. 7 

In our opinion one of the greatest advantages of milk as 
a food is that it exacts for its assimilation so little work from 
some of our most overworked and most important organs, 
like the stomach, liver, and kidneys. 

It is certainly a boon to an overworked stomach, which is 
otherwise normal, when we prescribe a diet of raw milk, which, 
for many persons, is more digestible than most other foods. It 
is a fundamental principle in the treatment of old age to give 
a rest to those organs of the body which are the most active. 
Such a rest will certainly do good to the stomach, especially 
in the case of heavy eaters, and will improve its vitality. The 
same maxim holds good for the liver and kidneys. 

There is no food which, with the same nutritive content, 
contains so few harmful toxic products as milk. Imagine the 
difference between the liver or thyroid of a heavy meat eater, 
and those of one who has long taken mainly milk. The experi- 
ments of Chalmers Watson 8 and of Forsyth 9 speak volumes on 
this point. 

7 Fordyce: British Med. Journal, vol. x, p. 619, 1902. 

8 Chalmers Watson : Loo. cit. 

9 Forsyth : Loc. cit. 



The Advantages of Milk in Old Age. 33! 

Since milk food contains scarcely any products harmful to 
the liver, even when taken in large quantities, and considering 
at the same time, the antiseptic action of milk food upon the 
bacilli in the intestines, it is easy to understand that with such 
a diet little work is thrown upon the liver, and its tissues are not 
damaged. We have been surprised to see how well patients 
with liver or gall-stone trouble looked after a diet of milk and 
vegetables for several weeks. The importance of such a diet 
upon the condition of the bile passages is shown by the well- 
known fact that inflammation of the bile-ducts and gall-bladder 
can be caused by the immigration of bacilli from the intestine. It 
follows that with a lessened amount of intestinal bacilli, the bile- 
passages will not be so liable to infection, and by a milk diet, espe- 
cially one of sour milk, kefir, koumiss, etc., we can limit, to a large 
extent, the number of bacteria in our intestines. Therefore such 
a diet would be calculated to prevent disorders of the gall-ducts 
and bladder and gall-stone disease, which are so often found in 
elderly persons. 

Milk is a food which contains scarcely any extractives. 
In consequence it is an ideal food for the kidneys, through which 
it passes without causing the least injury to these vital organs, 
which cannot be said of meat with its numerous extractive sub- 
stances. Milk contains very little salt, which qualifies it as a 
most excellent food for the kidneys. Milk diet has rightly been 
given since the early days of medicine in kidney troubles. Since 
in old age there is an increase of connective tissue in the kidneys, 
with impairment of their eliminative capacity, on this account 
also milk diet is the most suitable for old persons. 

In order to derive the greatest possible benefit from this 
most excellent food, it would be necessary to take human milk, 
as thus we introduce into our system the internal secretions of 
human ductless glands and human ferments. Such good for- 
tune can, however, only fall to the lot of infants, and, we are 
sorry to say, not to all of them. Therefore we are obliged to 
use the milk of those animals which is next best to human milk 



332 Old Age Deferred. 



for example, asses' milk. This, however, cannot be obtained 
easily; two pints of it would cost, in some places, about a dollar. 
The next best substitute is goats' milk, which also contains ten 
times as much iron as cows' milk. It is a great puzzle to us why 
the milk of this animal, which is richer in fat and albumin than 
cows' milk, is not more used. Perhaps the main objection is the 
occasionally disagreeable smell, which, however, can be avoided 
by keeping the goat very clean. The goat is rarely subject to 
tuberculosis, which also is a strong argument for the use of its 
milk. 

There can be no doubt that, for those who can stand it in 
large quantities, milk is an excellent aid in the fight against old 
age and in its treatment. As most constituents of the blood 
enter the milk, perhaps it is not too daring to say that drinking 
milk is, in a measure, drinking blood. Evidently blood contains 
all the internal secretions of the ductless glands as well as most 
valuable ferments ; hence the rational prevention and treatment of 
old age would consist in drinking blood. There is, however, no 
general tendency to such bloodthirsty methods at the present 
time, but, maybe, it will be used in the future. But if we cannot 
drink blood let us drink milk, the most valuable food there is. 



CHAPTER XL. 

ON BLOOD AS AN ARTICLE OF FOOD CONTAINING IRON AND 
ANIMAL EXTRACTS SAUSAGES AND BLOOD PUDDINGS. 

IRON is a most important element of our blood, the lack 
of which, as in chlorosis and various anaemic conditions, may 
produce very serious symptoms. To replace this deficiency iron 
is introduced into our system, and this can be done in two ways : 
either by the natural way, i.e., by food which contains iron, or 
artificially, by means of drugs which contain iron. It is the 
opinion of Bunge that iron, given in drugs, especially as inorganic 
iron, is not so readily absorbed and assimilated as organic iron, 
i.e., iron as it occurs in various articles of food, and especially 
in the blood. 

Therefore an effort has been made with more or less success 
by manufacturing chemists to make preparations of iron obtained 
from the blood, and Professor Bunge 1 has experimented on ani- 
mals by using iron containing nuclein, separated from the yolk of 
eggs ; and in Professor Kossel's laboratory such a preparation has 
been made from the eggs of the carp. It was found that these 
preparations were perfectly absorbed and assimilated. 

Professor Bunge, and also his pupils Abderhalden and 
Hatisermann, found that all animals which received food con- 
taining but little iron, became anaemic, e.g., young rabbits fed 
only on milk, which, as above mentioned, is very poor in iron. 
Later food was given that contained iron (as green vegetables, 
cabbage, herbs, etc.; or meat, yolks of eggs, and fruit), and soon 
afterward the iron contents of their blood was found to be 
increased. Even if we are not anaemic or chlorotic, it is necessary 
to take a certain amount of iron, preferably organic iron, into 
our systems. 

Anaemia of slight degree is very frequent in women, espe- 
1 Bunge: Lehrbuch der Physiologie, Berlin, 1907. 

(333) 



334 Old Age Deferred. 



cially after degeneration of the ovaries, as after the menopause. 
As we have already mentioned, the ovaries influence in a remark- 
able way the condition of the blood. In the adult the bone 
marrow is the chief seat of formation for the red blood corpus- 
cles ; but the bone marrow, and indeed the whole skeleton, as we 
have shown in the second chapter of this book, is under the con- 
trol of the ovaries and of the thyroid. As these organs are, as a 
rule, degenerated in old age, anaemia must result, and indeed Prof. 
Naunyn 2 says : "Old people are anaemic." Geist has already 
emphasized the diminution in the quantity of the blood in old age. 
That blood formation is deficient in old age is demonstrated by 
Besangon and Labbe, who found the activity of the bone morrow 
diminished in old age, and by Grawitz, 3 who found that bone 
marrow underwent important changes in old age, being trans- 
formed into a jelly-like substance. According to Grawitz, iron 
and he always prefers to prescribe an organic rather than an 
inorganic iron preparation is less efficacious in old age. We 
attribute this to the degeneration of the blood-forming organs, 
through whose intermediary action iron produces its effect. If, 
however, these organs are not entirely degenerated, but only par- 
tially so, as in the first few years following the menopause in 
women until the end of the fifties we can obtain better results; 
and indeed after giving such women iron we may observe that 
they look better, and often fresher (see, also, Chapter LIII). As 
organic iron is more easily assimilated, this form is to be pre- 
ferred, and the question arises : How should we take it ? Of all 
kinds of food used at present, spinach and the yolk of eggs 
contain the most iron; so we could give these. Fortunately 
spinach is obtainable at all seasons in the United States. For 
those who prefer eggs, yolks in quantities large enough to satisfy 
our needs would not be easily digested, and also as eggs would 
be difficult to procure fresh every day, we must think of another 



2 Naunyn: In Schwalbe's Lehrbuch der greisenkrankheiten, Berlin, 1909. 

3 Grawitz: Hidem and also in "Klinische Pathologie des Blutes," third 
edition, Leipzig, 1906. 



Blood as an Article of Food. 335 

expedient. We may take iron preparations obtained from the 
blood of animals. But why not take the blood itself, which 
contains iron in a form similar to that in our blood, and in larger 
quantities than in any other food ? This would certainly be more 
efficacious, and also less expensive. 

Bunge mentions that the chlorotic girls of Basel (Bale) 
come to the slaughterhouses in order to drink the blood of ani- 
mals that have just been slaughtered. The question arises as to 
which animal's blood is the best. That of the pig is preferable 
for several reasons. Its blood contains much irpn (according to 
Bunge 226 milligrammes in every 100 grammes), its organs are 
anatomically and histologically very like our own, and the pig is an 
omnivorous animal, as we are, being able to eat even 14 to 20 
pounds of meat a day. Several of the organo-therapeutic prep- 
arations, like ovarian extracts, and testicular and kidney extracts, 
are, if obtained from the pig, more active than those obtained 
from other animals. And, finally, from pigs' blood very savory 
sausages and puddings can be prepared. 

In Denmark and Norway a favorite pudding is prepared 
from pigs' blood, together with flour, sugar, barley, groats, and 
raisins, and we have found it very palatable. In these countries 
many physicians prescribe this pudding and blood sausages (in 
England called "black puddings") to chlorotic girls. 

We consider pigs' blood to be of very great value, not only 
on account of its iron, but also because it contains, as does blood 
in general (according to Claude Bernard), extracts of the duct- 
less glands in their most assimilable form, and by taking this 
blood we, at the same time, introduce these organic extracts. To 
obtain the greatest possible benefit from these properties the 
blood should be drunk fresh; but as this is not very easy to do 
for obvious reasons, we can substitute blood sausages and black 
puddings. Blood contains chemical substances of great impor- 
tance, as iron, manganese, phosphorus and small quantities of 
iodine, besides also lecithin, glycogen, glucose, jecorin, etc. It 
also contains important ferments, as diastase, and sugar- and fat- 



336 



Old Age Deferred. 



splitting ferments. Likewise it contains important immunizing 
substances, opsonins, alexins, etc. 

The blood of pigs is very nourishing, for it is rich in albu- 
min. Indeed, considering that this blood is wasted in the 
slaughter houses, it is necessarily the cheapest kind of food. 
And it is also an article of food which is easily digested, ab- 
sorbed, and assimilated. It is hard to understand why this 
article of diet has not been made more use of long ago. Professor 
Bunge, the well-known physiologist, likewise strongly recom- 
mends the use of blood as an important article of diet. We show 
in the following table, compiled from the researches of Abder- 
halden, 4 the composition of pigs' blood and of ox blood in respect 
to their nourishing qualities and different mineral contents. 



per cent. 

u u 



PIGS' BLOOD 

Water 71.6 

Hemoglobin 14.22 

Albumin 4.66 

Fat 0.11 

Fatty Acids 0.04 

Sugar 0.069 

Cholesterin 0-044 

Lecithin 0.231 

Phosphoric Acid w. Nuclein. . . 0.006 

Oxide of Iron 0.696 

Calcium 0.068 

Magnesium 0.089 

Potassium 0.2303 

Sodium 0.2406 

Entire Phosphoric Acid 0.1002 

Anorg. Phosphoric Acid 0.749 

Chlorides 0. 



Ox BLOOD 

per cent. 



10.31 
6.98 
0.052 

0.02 

0.199 

0.135 

0.003 

0.054 

0.007 

0.004 

0.004 

0.0364 

0.0040 

0.017 



According to the researches of T. Konig, 5 Farwick and C. 
Kraut blood sausages have the following composition : 



IN THE NATURAL SUBSTANCE 


DBT SUBSTANCE 


Water 


Nitro- 
genous 
Substance 


Fat 


Nitrogen 
Free 
Extract 
Matters 


Ashes 


Nitro- 
genous 
Substance 


Fat 


Nitrogen 
and Dry 
Substance 


49.93^ 


11.81 # 


11.48 # 


25.09$ 


1.64 


23.59$ 


22.90 & 


3.77$ 



4 Abderhalden : Zeitschrift fiir Physiolog. Chemie, 1898, 25, 56 (for pigs' 
blood) ; and Hidem, 1897, 23, 521 (for ox blood). 

5J. Konig: "Die mensch;lich,en Nahrungs und Qenussmittel," Berlin, 
1903, I, p. 76, 



Blood as an 'Article of Food. 337 

Experiments were made in England centuries ago by trans- 
fusing the blood of young animals into the veins of old animals 
(sheep, cows, and horses), which latter, by this means, became 
more lively and active. In some cases the special senses became 
more acute hearing especially, according to Dr. Hufeland. On 
man such transfusion has also been tried ; Dever and Riva, 6 in 
Paris, succeeded in treating certain diseases by transfusion of 
animals' blood, and, as Hufeland states, a lunatic recovered 
his health after transfusion with calves' blood. 

It is strange that this treatment is not more used now. 
Should we not be able to treat certain diseases, such as old age, 
by transfusing the blood of younger individuals, or of certain ani- 
mals ? This is certainly a bold question, and we are not yet in a 
position to answer it definitely. We must take into considera- 
tion the fact that the transfusion of blood, even though human, 
into other individuals presents certain dangers. Bier has tried 
transfusion in a few cases of lupus, and there appeared at first 
symptoms of intoxication followed later by a marked ameliora- 
tion. But if transfusion by present surgical methods is not free 
from dangers we can give the blood in a more rational manner 
by the mouth. As Bunge has shown, the hsematin is absorbed by 
the intestines, while the diapedesis of the blood corpuscles them- 
selves through the intestines has been demonstrated in the experi- 
ments of Grawitz. The serum of Moebius (antithyroidin) also 
acts if taken by the mouth. 

At the present time nothing hinders us from using the blood 
of pigs in the way just mentioned. But care must be taken to 
obtain fresh and healthy blood. Pigs often get pneumonia 
through catching cold during transportation. Therefore those 
pigs whose blood we use must have been previously specially 
examined. 

For this purpose also pigs should not be too fat. As we 
learned from observations in the slaughter houses, a fat pig of 



e Quoted after Hufeland, Makrobiotik, edited by Steinthal, Berlin, p. 13, 
1887, 

33 



338 Old Age Deferred. 



200 pounds may not have more than a liter of blood, whereas 
oxen of 900 pounds have nearly 10 to 12 liters of blood. Still, 
for reasons already mentioned, preference should be given to 
pigs' blood. 

It is most important that, when the diet consists of much 
milk and little or no meat, some iron-containing food be taken 
in addition. 



CHAPTER XLI. 

SOME REMARKS ON THE HYGIENE OF EATING How TO OBTAIN 
AN APPETITE ON MASTICATION. 

IF we desire to derive benefit from what we eat in order 
to keep the body in good condition, and thus successfully resist 
the onslaught of old age, we must possess a good digestion and 
be able to make use of our gastric juice. Without this secretion 
all, or the greater part, of what we eat will remain undigested in 
the stomach and intestines, and by its stagnation produce much 
disturbance and lessen the vitality of these important organs. 
Everything, therefore, depends upon being provided with an 
adequate supply of gastric juice. There are two ways of aiding 
this : First, by the direct action of the food on the walls of the 
stomach. Second, by various means which act on the nervous 
system that governs the glands of the stomach and provokes their 
secretion. As by the first means only a small amount of gastric 
juice is secreted, we will deal with the second. 

The nerves of the gastric glands can be stimulated by various 
agencies which influence the central nervous system, and thus 
provoke appetite ; for instance, sight, for we know of old how the 
sight of tasty dishes provokes our appetite. Professor Pawlow, 
of St. Petersburg, has shown by experiments on dogs, in whose 
stomachs he had made a fistula, that merely showing them a piece 
of meat was sufficient to cause them to secrete a large quantity of 
stomach juice. Umber has also shown on man that optic influ- 
ence was able to produce the secretion of gastric juice. 

In addition to sight, smell produces similar results. Pro- 
fessor Bickel, 1 of Berlin, has experimented on a girl of 23, who, 
after an injury from caustic potash, had to have a fistulous open- 

l Congress fur Iimere Medicin, 1904. 

(339) 



340 Old Age Deferred. 



ing made into her stomach, her oesophagus being completely 
strictured. By holding steaming hot soup under her nose he 
caused the secretion of a clear stomach juice to run through the 
open fistula. 

The secretion of the stomach juice can also be produced by 
the sense of taste. Professor Bickel showed this in the above 
case by placing on the girl's tongue a solution of sugar, and again 
of salt, and there followed each time a secretion of stomach juice. 

Pawlow has also proved this by ingenious experiments on 
dogs. After making a fistula in their oesophagus he gave them 
pieces of meat to eat, which, on being swallowed, fell out again 
by the open oesophagus, so that they never reached the stomach ; 
and yet the taste of the meat and chewing were sufficient to cause 
the production of a large amount of gastric juice. 

Thus the secretion of the gastric juice is under nervous 
influence. But if pleasant nervous impulses are able to promote 
its secretion, on the other hand, as shown by the observations of 
Beaumont, and also of Sommerfeld on men, disagreeable impres- 
sions are able to check it. Bickel and Sasaki have also observed 
this to have occurred in persons who have been in a state of anger, 
which coincides with our own observations that when we are in 
a depressed mental condition, or when we receive disagreeable 
news, we often lose our appetite. If, therefore, we want to eat 
with relish we must put aside all mental pre-occupation and 
worry, and go to the table in a cheerful mood. Persons of a 
melancholy temperament seldom have an appetite, and in melan- 
cholia there is often a refusal to eat, so that nourishment has to 
be maintained artificially. 

When any one has been working in the open air all day and 
is of a cheerful disposition, he will not need anything appetizing 
to make him eat. By his work he has digested his food easily, 
his body craves for more to keep up his energy, and his empty 
stomach requires to be filled ; he will be hungry and have a good 
appetite without any artificial stimulus. 

But it is a different thing with ladies who sit all day long in 



Hygiene of Eating. 341 



their rooms, or with men who sit all day at their office desks. 
Such persons very often need an artificial stimulus for a good 
appetite and sufficient gastric juice. We must then resort to 
small artifices to induce these. A snow white table cloth, beauti- 
ful service, choice fruit in artistic vases, wearing clean linen and 
evening dress, and having agreeable society and possibly music at 
dinner, will, perhaps, sufficiently act on the different senses to 
produce appetite and a free secretion of the gastric juice. 

In certain restaurants we often see an open buffet with the 
choicest dishes displayed, from which we can select our meal; 
and this certainly acts as an appetizer. In certain countries, 
also, it is the custom to take before dinner little hors d'ceuvres 
or delicacies, like the Zakuski in Russia, or the smorgasbord in 
Sweden, which certainly serve to enhance the appetite. 

Those whose appetite needs stimulation may receive benefit 
from meat extracts, such as bouillon, before dinner. These ex- 
tracts are some of the few things which can produce a sufficient 
secretion in the stomach directly, without the intervention of 
appetite, as has been shown by the experiments of many authori- 
ties. Such an appetizer would not, however, be advisable, 
because bouillon, containing extractive substances, is more inju- 
rious than meat if taken often and in large quantities. 

For such as have no appetite it may be of advantage to 
wash the tongue before meals with a solution of salt; this, 
to a certain extent, will also cleanse a coated tongue, with 
which a good appetite is not easily attained; and at the same 
time, according to Bickel's above-mentioned experiment, it may 
provoke a secretion of stomach juice. Vinegar and water will 
have the same effect as the saline wash. A coated tongue should 
always be cleansed before meals, for when the papillae of taste 
are covered, the direct action of the food on them may be 
prevented. 

Just before dinner, and for an hour after it, no mental work 
should be done ; and it is often better to open a letter after than 
before dinner, so as not to spoil the appetite. A short walk in 



342 Old Age Deferred. 



the fresh air before dining will also be an appetizer. We have 
personally noticed a diminution in appetite on those days when 
no exercise was taken. 

Much depends on the way the meals are served. Above all 
things food must be pleasant to the eye and to the palate, and 
it is the great art of the cook to fulfill this. The greatest pos- 
sible cleanliness is paramount, for with many people the sight of a 
dirty cloth or napkin is able to kill all appetite and check the 
secretion of gastric juice. 

Reading while eating is contrary to the above indications, 
unless perhaps it be something humorous, like Mark Twain's 
"Adventures of Huckleberry Finn," for instance. If we have the 
chance of choosing our neighbors at the dinner table let us rather 
sit next some one having the characteristics of Mark Twain than 
an undertaker or one who talks business. 

Besides the gastric juice the saliva also plays a very im- 
portant role, as it contains a valuable ferment which facilitates 
the digestion of starch into sugar : the diastatic ferment. In or- 
der to have a good supply of saliva the food must be kept longer 
on the tongue, as the flow of saliva is best induced by the stimula- 
tion of the nerves of taste ; so we must masticate longer, and move 
the food between the teeth and on the tongue for as long a time 
as possible, so that it will act on the nerves of taste. 

The secretion of the salivary glands under nervous influence 
is actuated in the same way as is that of the gastric juice. It is 
powerfully influenced by psychical inpressions; for instance, by 
impulses coming from sight to the nervous centers and thence to 
the salivary glands, as can easily be seen by daily observation. 
If we offer a hungry dog a sausage we shall all witness an abun- 
dant flow of saliva, and the same may also be seen in man, and the 
German saying, "das wasser lauft im Munde zusammen," 
may be literally true. 

The secretion of saliva can be provoked by much the same 
agencies as that of the stomach juice, but above all by mastica- 
tion. This has the greatest effect on the flow of saliva, espe- 



Hygiene of Eating. 343 



daily when accompanied by good appetite; in fact, we may say 
good appetite provokes the flow of saliva and mastication main- 
tains it for a long time. We are thus able, by abundant saliva- 
tion, to aid digestion wonderfully, especially with regard to 
starchy food, as the diastatic ferment of the saliva assists in trans- 
forming starch into sugar; otherwise such material would be 
rather difficult to digest, only depending then on the pancreatic 
and, perhaps, intestinal ferments. Another great advantage of 
thorough mastication is that the food reaches the stomach in the 
smallest possible pieces, perhaps in liquid form, and thus the 
stomach juice can reach it freely from all sides, whereby digestion 
is greatly facilitated. 

Not only the digestion in the stomach, but also the absorp- 
tion of food transformed into a liquid from the intestines is 
much assisted by thorough mastication; while, as the result of 
insufficient mastication, as with fast eaters, the food may cause 
much greater work to the walls of the stomach. Being much 
less absorbed from the intestine it may irritate it as a foreign 
body until expelled by greater efforts of the intestinal walls. 
Long-lasting gastric and intestinal catarrhs may result from 
insufficient mastication. 

The great advantage of methodical long mastication has 
been shown by Harry Campbell, 2 Horace Fletcher, 8 and Van 
Sommeren, of Venice. According to their recommendation it 
would be necessary to masticate food until it has almost lost its 
taste. It certainly requires long practice, especially in the case 
of fast eaters, to acquire the habit of prolonged mastication, for 
nothing is so difficult as to give up habits indulged in since 
childhood. Fast eating is not only injurious to health, but if 
indulged in in company, it is a breach of good manners. 

The authorities on thorough mastication also claim that by 
so doing they are able to do with less food, which is the more 
readily to be believed, as they are able to digest and absorb every- 

2 "Observation on Mastication," Lancet, vol. ii, 1903. 

3 Horace Fletcher: "The A, B-Z of Nutrition," New York, 1904. 



344 Old Age Deferred. 



thing better, their food leaves less residue, and they profit more 
by what they eat than do fast eaters and bad masticators. 

Good mastication means also good exercise for the teeth, the 
good condition of which is of the utmost importance for a 
healthy digestion just as it is important for all other organs of 
the body. When we eat fast we are inclined to wash down the 
imperfectly masticated food by large quantities of water, which 
may be prejudicial, as we are thus too freely diluting the contents 
of the stomach. Many women abstain from drinking at their 
meals for fear of getting fat, which is an erroneous idea, as 
Prof. Van Noorden has shown that this cannot produce obesity. 4 
On the other hand, not drinking during meals may lead to bad 
results. We are accustomed to take most of the water we drink 
with our meals; not taking any at meals may largely decrease 
the amount of fluid in the body, which has many bad effects. As 
shown by Pawlow, and also by Bickel, more stomach juice is 
secreted when the body contains more fluid. Then drinking a 
certain amount of water at meals may assist in the absorption of 
the food. There is also the great advantage that by the aid of 
fluids the end-products of nitrogenous matters, which have toxic 
actions, may be more easily eliminated from the body than with a 
dry diet. We believe it is preferable to take even an excess 
of water, than none at all, with meals, and there are many people 
who have no appetite unless they drink while eating. 

The question whether after meals we should rest or take 
exercise must be answered individually; those suffering from 
obesity or other disorders of metabolism, like gout or diabetes, 
had better take some form of exercise after a meal, while weak 
persons should rest. In general, a short walk after meals, and 
then remaining quiet for an hour, will prove to be best; but 
mental occupation for at least an hour after meals should be 
strictly prohibited. 

The time for meals should be when we are hungry, as we 
should never eat at other times for fear of not being able to digest 
4y. Noorden: "Die Fettsucht," Nothnagel's Handbuch. 



Hygiene of Eating. 345 



well, owing to the absence of stomach juice. It is essential to 
take our meals every day at the same time ; our stomach is of such 
a clock-like mechanism that it best indicates the hour for meals. 
If well disciplined it will secrete its gastric juice every day at 
the same hour. If possible we should always eat in company, 
for then we will eat slower, masticate better, and, if the company 
is jovial, probably secrete more gastric juice. 

Just as after meals, so also before them, any strenuous exer- 
cise should be forbidden. A little exercise may promote the 
gastric digestive secretions; but if we become tired from much 
exercise, then certainly not much and sometimes no gastric juice 
will be secreted; then meat extracts, bouillon, or soup will be 
necessary for obtaining an appetite. Some people eat too much 
bread, which may cause overwork for the stomach, as to digest 
bread gives it more work than does other food. It has been 
found that the albuminous parts of bread require five times more 
ferments and pepsin of the stomach than does meat; besides 
which, as we have found in many of our patients, there is nothing 
that causes an acid stomach so often as does too much bread, 
especially in nervous people. 

The most digestible food for most stomachs is meat, if it 
does not contain much connective tissue. Meat sauces and 
bouillon are excellent appetizers. However, such nourishment 
at every meal has its inconveniences, on which we will enlarge 
in another chapter. It is most desirable only to take meat once 
a day at dinner. 

The albumin in meat is much easier to digest than that in 
vegetables; to digest the latter, particularly potatoes, cabbage, 
etc., we need to have a thoroughly good stomach. Fat dishes are 
able to diminish the quantity of stomach juice, and fatty pota- 
toes or other vegetables with much fat, demand sound stomachs, 
in the same way as does rich pastry. Butter is an easily digested 
fat if it is fresh, but certainly not when it contains free fatty acids. 

Besides meat, cereals, such as are taken in America at break- 
fast, especially when finely ground and taken in the form of 



346 Old Age Deferred. 



flour, are most easily digested. It is an excellent American cus- 
tom to commence breakfast with grape-fruit, which is somewhat 
astringent and very refreshing; but to begin breakfast with an 
apple or a pear is the greatest possible offense to a normal stom- 
ach, and occurs only because of the lack of a thorough knowledge 
of the physiology of the stomach. 



CHAPTER XLIL 

ON THE USES OF SMALL DOSES, AND THE DELETERIOUS ACTION 
OF LARGE QUANTITIES OF ALCOHOL, 

IN everyday life we are exposed to worry and disappoint- 
ment; and also, as many of us easily tire after work, we fre- 
quently feel an inclination to take something to cheer us up and 
to incite us to further exertions ; thus we take stimulants, such as 
alcohol, tea, coffee, tobacco, etc. 

We may fairly compare these stimulants to a whip with 
which we urge on a horse. A short reflection, however, will 
teach us that rest would be the best stimulant for a tired horse ; 
but, unfortunately, physiological thinking is not yet the common- 
sense view of all. 

A willing horse requires no whip, and many of us are able 
to attain a good old age without requiring any stimulants. The 
grandfather of the author of this work has attained the age of 
105 without taking any stimulants. 

As our numerous friends, both in America and England, 
know, we do not take any alcohol, not from principle, but because 
we find no pleasure in so doing. Still we don't feel inclined to 
follow the anti-alcohol fanatics in their crusade, because we de- 
test fanaticism of any kind, whether displayed by Chinese, by 
Mohammedans in Bochara or Morocco, or by Christians in Eng- 
land or America. We also do not uphold such narrow-minded- 
ness as prohibiting even the smallest amount of alcohol to those 
who only take it in the greatest moderation, solely on the ground 
that there are some good-for-nothings who can never take it 
without getting drunk. With equal justice might we take away 
the fortune from a man who has gained it by his labor, on the 
ground that there are others starving because they will not work. 
We are not prepared, either, to accept the dictum of the anti- 

347) 



348 Old Age Deferred. 



alcoholics that alcohol is a poison even in small quantities. We 
do not deny that there are many among them who cannot stand 
even small quantities, which is a probable reason why they are 
so clamorous against it; but they do not possess normal health, 
physically or mentally; and the supposition is not unjustified that 
there is in some of them a lessened tolerance for alcohol owing 
to their previous immoderate libations. 

The truth is, as shown by many physiologists, such as 
Atwater and Benedict, and also by Professor Tigersted, 1 even 
at the Anti-Alcoholic Congress at Stockholm, that alcohol may 
be regarded, but in small doses only, as a precious gift, for by it 
we may preserve important parts of the bodily tissues carbohy- 
drate and fatty substances, which may be economized hy the use 
of certain quantities of alcohol. The nourishing effect can be 
attained only if not too much be taken, for in over-abundance a 
decomposition of albuminous substances can be produced as a 
toxic effect. 

Alcohol in small doses is unquestionably an excellent stimu- 
lant for the nervous system and the circulatory apparatus. There 
are many people who are able to do more work, especially of a 
physical nature, when they take a certain amount of alcohol ; and 
at the same time they have a better appetite for food. Alcohol, 
however, is of more benefit in this respect if we take wine; and 
of all alcoholic drinks, except beer, wine contains the least per- 
centage of alcohol, especially French wines, which normally con- 
tain only 9 per cent. But this stimulating effect only holds good 
when we do not take large amounts, for in the latter case the 
quality of work is impaired, especially mental labor. 

In a given quantity, and preferably in the shape of red 
wine, alcohol is able to cheer us up, and to a certain extent 
diminish grief and sorrow; but after taking large quantities we 
feel more depressed. 

Beer is more nourishing than wine, but has a more sluggish 
effect. English and some kinds of American beer often contain 
1 Quoted after Dr. Hollitscher, Prager med. Wochenschrift, 1907. 



Deleterious Action of Alcohol. 349 

nearly as much alcohol as some kinds of wine, sometimes more 
than light Tyrolean or Italian wines. 

The most beneficial form of alcohol is a light wine, and, as 
a medical stimulant, the older vintages of French wines. Beer 
may, to some extent, assist digestion, owing to its bitter con- 
stituents. It is true that it contains the least percentage of alco- 
hol of all beverages of this nature, but it has the disadvantage 
that it is taken in larger quantities as one gets accustomed to it, 
and thus more alcohol and a larger amount of liquid may be 
introduced, the result of which may be injurious to the circula- 
tory system (see "Hygiene of the Food"). 

Observation proves that many old people thrive well on 
a small amount of claret or other red wine taken daily at meal 
times. In such cases it may be regarded as a harmless tonic, if 
taken only in small quantities, and if their health be otherwise 
normal except for the debility attributable to old age. Dr. Savile, 
of London, has also found salutary effects from moderate and 
exactly regulated quantities of alcohol in the aged inmates of the 
workhouse infirmary. 

In our judgment we shall be best guided by the way in which 
our regular patients tolerate alcohol. When, having been accus- 
tomed to it all their life, they ask for wine or whiskey, and they 
can tolerate it well, we admit that small amounts act as a kind 
of tonic for them ; but it should never be given if there is an in- 
compatibility for it, for then it is distinctly harmful and should 
be avoided. 

Brandy is the most dangerous form of alcohol, la but whiskey 
in small doses may be reckoned much less harmful; but the 
least injurious of all are light wines and the still lighter kinds 
of beer, which contain only some 3 per cent, of alcohol. 

That wine may be taken without harm, even to considerable 
old age, can be illustrated by a series of examples, of which we 



I* There may be exceptions, however. The father-in-law of a Swedish 
lady patient of ours is at present 96^ years old. For a good many years the 
old gentleman has been drinking daily a large amount of cognac. 



350 Old Age Deferred. 



have mentioned some already, where persons have reached 100 
years of age in spite of drinking wine every day. They might, 
perhaps, have lived longer had they taken no alcohol, for, as a 
rule, such persons come from long-lived families, and, as we have 
said previously, such people may permit for themselves greater 
license in this respect ; but this must be distinctly regarded as the 
exception, for, as the statistics of the United Temperance Asso- 
ciation in England show, total abstainers have a much greater 
chance for a long life than have others. According to Neisson's 
investigation of 6m persons from 16 to 90 years of age who 
were taking alcohol, the ratio of mortality among them was 
three times greater than for the whole population of England. 

Sir Isambard Owen shows, by a careful analysis of the 
results of the Collective Investigation Returns, comprising 4287 
persons, that the average duration of life is greatest among 
total abstainers and very moderate drinkers, and that but few 
addicted to much alcohol were among the long lived; those in 
the latter condition can only expect a shortening of life, which 
proves conclusively that alcohol is very deleterious to the 
organism. 

As post-mortem examinations show, all the organs of the 
body suffer degeneration after coming in contact with large 
quantities of alcohol. It would be impossible to dilate here 
upon all these different changes. We will, therefore, only men- 
tion the effects of alcohol on the most important organs for 
example, the heart and blood-vessels. 

As is well known, alcohol, if taken in large quantities, degen- 
erates the heart muscles and also produces the condition of 
arteriosclerosis. Its effects on the brain are particularly delete- 
rious. If taken once only, but in large measure, it is sufficient to 
cause intoxication, with changes in the mental faculty. Taken 
habitually, as by chronic alcoholics, these mental changes may 
develop into a permanent character, and thus insanity may follow. 
According to the official statistics of the Kingdom of Wurttem- 
burg, about 60 per cent of the inmates of lunatic asylums were 



Deleterious Action of Alcohol. 351 

alcoholics. Out of 579 lunatics of the Provincial Insane Asy- 
lum, in Vienna, in 1899, there were 40 per cent, alcoholics. 

As we have shown in our address at a special meeting 
of the Philadelphia Medical Jurisprudence Society, insanity and 
crime stand in very close relationship, and, in fact, crime may 
be regarded as a nervous disease. We should, therefore, not 
be surprised to find so many criminals among alcoholics. Ac- 
cording to statistics prepared in Germany, some 63 per cent, of 
cases of injury to the person, 69 per cent, of robbery and murder, 
and 77 per cent, of sexual crimes were committed by persons 
under the influence of alcohol; and according to Dr. Scharf- 
fenberg, of Christiania, if there were no alcoholics crime would 
be diminished by one-half. 

A person committing a crime while under the influence of 
alcohol is no more responsible than a person who does the same 
thing while in a state of delirium caused by some infectious dis- 
ease, or while under the influence of such a poison as muscarin 
or atropin, which produces an intoxication similar to that of 
alcohol. 

Of the other organs which are injured by alcohol we must 
put in the front rank the various ductless glands, which are of 
special importance to us. 

The frequency of impotency in chronic alcoholism proves 
how injurious to the sexual glands are large quantities of alco- 
hol. The same applies to the adrenals, as shown by the fre- 
quency of arteriosclerosis in alcoholics. From one dose of 
alcohol we can often see an increase in blood-pressure. It has 
been shown by Dr. Sajous that alcohol acts in a very deleterious 
way upon the pituitary body when taken in anything but small 
quantities or well diluted as in beer or light wines ; he illustrates 
this fact in a very instructive microscopic specimen. 2 

In the same way the bad effects of alcohol on the kidneys and 
liver are amply demonstrated in the handbooks of clinical medi- 
cine and pathological anatomy, with which we are all well 
2 Sajous: "Internal Secretions," vol. ii, p. 1332, 1907. 



352 Old Age Deferred. 



acquainted ; and the constant occurrence of cirrhosis of the liver 
and interstitial nephritis in alcoholics plainly show this. 

A matter of grave importance to us is also the degeneration 
of the thyroid in alcoholics, as found by the researches of de 
Quervain 3 and Sarbach 3 * and the clinical observations of 
Hertoghe. 4 

These degenerating effects of alcohol on the ductless glands 
will explain why premature old age is so often found in alco- 
holics, especially when brandy and liqueurs are taken; but still 
worse consequences than this also arise, viz. : the diminution of 
the powers of resistance to infection or intoxication, in conse- 
quence of the lack of those important protective elements which, 
as we see in Chapter III, are derived from the ductless glands, a 
fact which various epidemics amply prove. My friend, Dr. Mac- 
Means, told me during a stay in Monterey, Mexico, that in 
an epidemic of yellow fever, he observed that alcoholics were 
among the first to contract it. 

We know the great frequency of tuberculosis in alcoholics, 
and the great mortality in such persons from pneumonia. They 
are unable to withstand the high fever and cannot combat the 
infection, and the heart soon fails ; and also, as a general rule, in 
all cases of infectious diseases their chances are much worse 
than are those of other people. 

We note in Chapter VI that heredity depends on the con- 
dition of the ductless glands of the parents. This is also the case 
with alcoholics, and it is a fact that the descendants of such are 
heavily handicapped ; and, as also mentioned in Chapter VI, con- 
genital myxcedema and scrofulosis is prevalent among them, 
and their chances for a long youth discounted. Nervous dis- 
eases are also of constant occurrence among these, such as idiocy, 
epilepsy, etc., very interesting data as to which are given by 
Legrain. A certain alcoholic was eight times in the insane 



3 de Quervain: Semaine Med., 1895. 

3'Sarbach: Mitth. Grenzgebiete Med. u. Chir., 1906, p. 213. 

4 Hertoghe: Loc, cit. 



Deleterious Action of Alcohol. 353 

asylum for delirium tremens. He had nine children ; three died 
at birth from general debility, one died of convulsions within the 
first year, and the other five suffered from trembling in the 
extremities. The father of this person was also a drunkard, 
who hanged himself; the mother, a brother, and a sister were 
also dipsomaniacs. 

Martin found in 60 out of 83 female epileptics, alcoholism 
in the parents. Demme examined 57 children among such, and 
found only 10 who were normal, physically and mentally. 

A terrible genealogy is that traced by Dr. Klausner con- 
cerning a woman named Ada Take, born in 1740, who was a 
dipsomaniac. She had 709 descendants, among whom were 
100 illegitimate children, 181 prostitutes, 142 beggars, 46 work- 
house inmates, 76 criminals, and the remainder were more or 
less habitual drunkards. This one family cost the country or 
prison authorities for their support over three million florins 
($1,200,000). 

In tropical climates the effects of alcohol are most perni- 
cious. According to Dr. Hueppe, it is the greatest enemy to 
the European. From the official report of the British Commis- 
sioner General for Central Africa, in 1894, "the use of beer, wine, 
and spirits is more destructive to our tropical colonies than all the 
bacilli and plasmodia;" and according to the great African ex- 
plorer, Emin Pasha, the tropics offer no dangers to the health 
of such as can abstain from large amounts of stimulants. It is 
very likely that what atrocities have been credited to Europeans 
in Africa were due to alcohol. 

From the foregoing facts it is clear that large quantities 
of alcohol are most injurious, but there is no scientific evidence 
to prove, with exactitude, that small doses are harmful. 

Some experiments in this direction have been made by 

Laitinen, 5 but they were performed on rabbits and guinea pigs, 

to which he gave very small doses (only o.i centimeter per kilo 

body-weight). He found that the haemolytic ability of the 

5 International Congress of Anti- Alcoholics, Stockholm, 1902. 



354 Old Age Deferred. 



blood was impaired, and that there was a greater mortality 
among their young than among the young of those kept on water. 
Laitinen, himself, did not dare to draw conclusions from these 
experiments ; nor can we, for there is a great difference between a 
man and a rabbit. But if an inference may be deduced from such, 
we can apply it to children, for, as is well known, the effects of 
drugs on small animals offer better comparisons for children than 
for adults. For this purpose, however, we need not refer to the 
experiments of Laitinen, for Dr. Maurice Kende has lately ex- 
perimented on 20 children between 6 and 15 years of age, who, 
after very small quantities of wine, exhibited an impairment of 
their mental faculties. 

Dr. Hercod has also shown that out of 591 Viennese school 
children, the best certificates for scholarship were gained by 
those who took no alcoholic drinks; instructional results were 
not quite so satisfactory in those who occasionally did so ; but the 
worst scholars of all were those who took alcohol two or three 
times a day. According to Viennese life, beer is generally meant 
by the term "alcohol/' and, in a much less degree, wine. 

That children are susceptible to alcohol, as to all poisons 
in general, has been already mentioned in Chapter X; so it is 
not surprising if only small quantities should unfavorably 
affect their mental faculties. We have also previously insisted 
upon the necessity of considering it a crime, meriting a heavy 
punishment, to give alcohol to children. But we again repeat 
that there is not sufficient strictly scientific evidence, as yet, to 
prove that small quantities of alcohol (especially beer or wine, 
and possibly whiskey) are deleterious to the majority of adults; 
those who cannot stand even small quantities will be best without 
any ; but we fail to see why a working man, when he comes from 
his daily labor, should be forbidden to take his glass of beer. It 
is certainly not the temperate users of stimulants, the hard 
workers, that should be persecuted by anti-alcoholics, but the 
intemperate users, who are a real curse to humanity. If those 
fanatics will limit their action in this useful direction only, every 



Deleterious Action of Alcohol. 355 

physician will be only too anxious to support them; but instead 
of this, like Don Quixote against the windmills, they forbid the 
use of alcohol entirely to persons who simply cannot exist with- 
out it; in fact, they might just as reasonably forbid them to eat, 
drink, or sleep ! 

We firmly believe that the best course is to discover the 
cause which compels such people to drink so much that they can- 
not discontinue the habit, and by finding the cause we shall 
ascertain the origin of the disease and can then treat it rationally, 
as we will endeavor to show in the succeeding chapter. Physi- 
cians, and not clergymen, are best qualified to fight the alcoholic 
habit, just as they are best qualified to fight all other diseases. 
That alcohol in small quantities cannot be such a poison as 
claimed by these faddists, is also shown by the great number of 
moderate drinkers who live to be much above 100 years old. At 
the present time there are also within our knowledge several 
persons over 100 years old who take every day a certain amount 
of alcohol. Thus an old general in Berlin, who reached his iO3d 
birthday last December, is accustomed to go, every day, to a beer 
house to have his glass of beer. Mrs. Andie Campbell, of Spring- 
burn, near Glasgow, who attained her iO3d birthday in January, 
1908, attributes, as the newspapers stated, her old age to the 
moderate use of whiskey, which she has been accustomed to drink 
all her life. According to the report of the Collective Investiga- 
tion Committee of the British Medical Association, most of the 
51 centenarians, whose cases were investigated, were total 
abstainers, but 5 were very fond of alcohol. One of them, Peggy 
Walsh, who is said to have attained 127 years, was in the habit 
of taking daily before dinner an ounce of whiskey in water. 6 
Thus it seems conclusive that the use of moderate quantities of 
alcohol does not seriously impair our chances for living to a good 
old age. 

6 Quoted after Humphrey, "Old Age," Cambridge, 1889. 



CHAPTER XLIII. 

SOME REMARKS ON THE CAUSES AND PREVENTION OF THE 
ALCOHOL HABIT. 

IT is a strange fact, but one in which all observers agree, 
that women who have never been accustomed to take alcohol, 
can stand considerable, and sometimes very large, quantities of 
it during convalescence after infectious diseases, such as pneu- 
monia, etc. It is equally strange that in severe cases of 
diabetes, where previously opium had never been taken, very 
large doses of this drug may be used without any inconvenience. 
We have also observed that women suffering from severe dia- 
betes, though unaccustomed to alcohol, could take large quantities 
of it for instance, one or two tablespoonfuls of whiskey three 
times a day without displaying any symptom of mental excita- 
tion or other signs of having taken liquor in a quantity which 
might provoke a state of excitation in persons not used to alcohol ; 
in fact, the alcohol has been well tolerated and taken with 
pleasure. 

In both these conditions diabetes (Lorand) and infectious 
diseases the thyroid gland plays an etiological role, as we 
have frequently indicated in this work. It is, therefore, justifiable 
now to discuss the point whether the thyroid has something to 
do with the apparent paradox that alcohol can be taken, without 
the display of any signs of intoxication, by women who are other- 
wise never in the habit of taking spirits. 

That this is really so cannot be denied, a priori, for the 
reason that between the activity of the thyroid and the influence 
of alcohol a certain relationship exists. This is evidenced from 
the observation, mentioned previously, that alcohol acts upon the 
thyroid gland, at first causing hyperactivity, and later on ex- 
(356) 



Prevention of the Alcohol Habit. 357 

haustion of it. As we have already mentioned, there is a certain 
analogy between the action of chloroform and that of alcohol on 
the thyroid gland. In fact, we think that it is permissible to 
assume that drunkenness is a consequence of the hyperactivity of 
the thyroid, for in such a condition there are observable a series 
of symptoms of thyroid hyperactivity; and it has been shown by 
Moebius 1 that in women suffering from Graves's disease (hyper- 
activity of the thyroid) we may find a condition of intoxication 
similar to that seen in alcoholic intoxication, although such 
women had not taken even a drop of alcohol. This condition is 
provoked by the over-abundance of thyroid secretion in the blood. 
In other words, women suffering from this disease can be drunk 
without having taken any alcohol at all, simply because of the 
entering into their blood of the secretion of the thyroid in large, 
i.e., in toxic, quantity, this having produced such a condition. 

According to several authors, whom we have already quoted 
(de Quervain, 2 Hertoghe 3 ), alcohol has a great influence on the 
thyroid, and in chronic alcoholism the thyroid is found to be de- 
generated. 

If it can be admitted that drunkenness is caused by the toxic 
products of the thyroid, due to the alcohol acting on the thyroid 
and causing its hypersecretion, we can also explain the mystery 
why persons bitten by poisonous snakes can also, in the same 
way, take very large quantities of alcohol without showing its 
effects, even when they have previously been quite unaccustomed 
to it. Snake poison, as do all poisons, creates a hyperactivity of 
the thyroid which results in the throwing off of a large amount 
of colloid substance. Exhaustion follows this hyperactivity, and 
in this condition, as in convalescence from infectious diseases, and 
in severe diabetes, where there is also a similar exhaustion of the 
thyroid after a previous hyperactivity, a large quantity of alcohol 
can be taken, merely because of the fact that when the thyroid is 



1 "Die Basedow'sche Krankheit," Nothnagel's Handbuch, second edition. 

2 Semaine MSdicale, 1905. 

3 Loc. tit. 



358 dd Age Deferred. 



devoid of its colloid, a condition of hyperactivity, which is the 
cause of drunkenness, cannot easily be provoked, unless enormous 
doses are given. We must, therefore, in cases of snake poison- 
ing give greatly increased doses of alcohol in order to again 
provoke an increased activity of the thyroid, and thus cause the 
eventual destruction of the harmful toxalbumins of the snake 
poison. 

If women, in a state of convalescence after pneumonia, or 
with severe diabetes, and unaccustomed to taking spirits, can 
stand large quantities of alcohol without exhibiting any signs of 
excitation, it is very probably due to the circumstance that the 
thyroid has already thrown off its available amount of colloid, 
is exhausted, and the doses given are not yet sufficient to produce 
a fresh secretion, and thus the symptoms of drunkenness do not 
develop. 

The result of these observations is that a degenerated thy- 
roid cannot easily provoke a condition of drunkenness, which 
may also explain the curious coincidence that frequently chronic 
alcoholics, even after large quantities of alcohol, do not present 
typical symptoms of drunkenness; in fact, sometimes so few of 
such signs are visible that, if a crime is committed under such 
influences, it is difficult to prove they were really intoxicated at 
the time, as they present no visible signs of such a condition. 

From the foregoing we shall, therefore, not be surprised to 
find that persons suffering from hypothyroidia or myxcedema 
can take large quantities of alcohol, and at the same time evince 
a great liking for the same ; in fact, at times, they have a regular 
craving for it. Several things will explain why myxcedematous 
people like to take alcohol. They invariably feel cold, as the 
thyroid regulates the temperature of the body; they thus desire 
to obtain warmth from the spirit (which may excite the function, 
in a small degree, of such parts of the thyroid as are not yet 
degenerated), and thus produce symptoms of thyroid hyper- 
activity, by which warmth may be produced, though they do 
not realize that subsequently they will be all the colder. Such 



Prevention of the Alcohol Habit. 359 

people are also generally of a dull apathetic disposition, never 
cheerful, but in a depressed mood, owing to the degenerated 
condition of the thyroid; and being thus despondent they are 
easily dejected by worries or disappointment. That such people 
should resort to drink is but natural, if we consider that they can 
take alcohol without visible effects. We must not forget that 
there are many degrees of hypothyroidia, from light cases with a 
simple insufficiency of the thyroid up to graver forms nearly 
approaching myxcedema ; and all we have said on the above sub- 
ject will apply in varying degrees to them. 

From this we shall now also understand why aged people 
can sometimes take much alcohol without exhibiting signs of 
drunkenness, which is probably the origin of the erroneous idea 
that "wine is the milk of the aged." This can have very baneful 
results, for if small doses can undoubtedly produce especially 
when light French wines are taken a tonic and stimulating 
effect on the thyroid, after larger doses the hyperactivity may 
more readily be followed by exhaustion, in which case, in old 
age, the degeneration of the thyroid will be still more quickened. 

If persons with a degenerated thyroid can take large quan- 
tities of alcohol without getting drunk, on the other hand, those 
with an overactive thyroid cannot stand alcohol so well; and 
that the latter is the case in Graves's disease has been already 
shown by the fact such people can exhibit the symptoms of intoxi- 
cation even when they have taken no alcohol at all. Young girls 
and women generally, except those past the climacteric age, are 
very sensitive to the effects of alcohol, and easily get intoxicated, 
owing to the fact that the thyroid is, with them, more active on 
account of the intimate connection between it and the ovaries. 
Thus, during thyroid treatment we have seen intoxication appear 
after a single glass of claret in persons who previously could 
drink much more without becoming so affected. 

During treatment with thyroid tablets alcohol is not well 
borne, according to our observations. 

It is probable that the sexual glands have also something 



360 Old Age Deferred. 



in common with this question. We have observed that people 
with marked sexual inclinations are seldom habitual drunkards; 
in fact, we do not recall having ever come across an instance; 
also, among total abstainers men of strong sexual inclina- 
tion are not infrequently met with, whereas alcoholics do 
not usually seem to care much for the fair sex, which should 
surprise us the less, in as much as among them impotency is very 
frequent, alcohol in large quantities always having a baneful 
effect on the sexual glands. In small quantities, to a certain 
extent, it may prove stimulating to these glands. 

It is an interesting fact that in those with degenerated 
sexual glands there is always a greater liking for alcohol; thus 
women, after the menopause, have a greater predilection for 
spirits, and the greatest number of cases of drunkenness in 
women is to be observed among such. Eunuchs also have a 
greater inclination for intoxicating agents than have their more 
fortunate brethren who are still in possession of their sexual 
glands. We do not think that psychic impulses, consequent on 
such conditions, can be of sufficient influence to explain the crav- 
ing for alcohol, except, perhaps, through the circumstance that 
persons deprived of the active sexual glands do not enjoy a high 
state of mental activity and are unable to judge of the fatal con- 
sequences of the drink habit. If women, after the menopause, 
exhibit a greater inclination to drink, we think it cannot be ex- 
plained solely by their seeking to drown the sorrows of lost youth 
and by substituting for the pleasures of sexual life those of the 
bottle. This may certainly influence them to a certain degree, 
but in any case it is certain that without the possession of healthy 
sexual glands the desire for stimulants is greater; and it would 
seem also that in advanced age they can take alcohol more freely 
than in their prosperous younger days. Such persons have a 
partiality for strong sweet liqueurs. Happily such women are in 
a great minority. All we wish to point out is that it is among the 
older people that this craving exists, as in the younger ones 
alcohol cannot be so well borne. 



Prevention of the Alcohol Habit. 361 

From such observations on the greater frequency of the 
alcohol habit among persons suffering from degenerated condi- 
tions of the thyroid and sexual glands, and on its greater rarity 
in opposite conditions, we believe that some therapeutic hints 
may be gained. The best preventive against the alcohol habit 
(which is induced usually by the want of, and a real craving 
for, stimulants) will be the satisfying of this tendency by other 
means than alcohol. We can even prevent this craving if we 
can improve the state of their thyroid or sexual glands. For 
single persons marriage is an excellent stimulant, and a first- 
class psychic treatment as well. Treatment by means of thyroid 
gland can also give good results, as by this the mental condition 
will be improved and a cheerful disposition may be gained, which 
will enable them the better to withstand worry and depression 
after disappointment. At the same time the temperature of the 
body will be increased, a feeling of warmth produced, and fatigue 
much better borne. Thus no whip will be needed, and the craving 
for stimulants will be prevented. To women not only thyroid, 
but ovarian, extracts should be given. Both exercise a powerful 
influence on- the mental condition, relieve depression, and remove 
the craving for constant stimulation. By these means we possess 
a basis for the rational treatment of alcoholism, besides the 
psychical and ethical one, on which we will not enter here. But 
we must emphatically remark that we must, in the first instance, 
get rid of the real cause of alcoholism, viz., the diseased condition 
of the thyroid and sexual glands which induces it, and by the 
removal of the cause we also remove the consequences. By 
merely forbidding the use of alcohol and doing nothing to cure 
the diseased condition which sets up such an insatiable craving 
for it, is like filling a barrel, which has a hole in it, with water, 
before we have tried to stop up the orifice. 



CHAPTER XLIV. 

ON OTHER STIMULANTS TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, TOBACCO: 
THEIR MERITS AND DISADVANTAGES. 

IN many people the use of the above stimulants produces 
greater energy, especially for mental work, and the process of 
thought may be facilitated by their means, although we are not 
prepared to approve them as a general rule. At any rate if such 
properties are to be found in these stimulants, they are available 
only in small amounts and not exceeding a given limit, for in 
excess the same rule applies to them as to alcohol. 

There are, indeed, certain authorities who condemn them, 
and go so far even as to call them poisonous. But it is a 
leading principle of this work to condemn exaggeration and 
fanaticism in any form, and always to observe the means that 
are best for all rules of life. Sobriety and. impartiality in every- 
thing must be the guiding stars for such a work as this. We 
must not forget that the millions of human beings that are on the 
earth have each a different kind of constitution, and many of 
them practically cannot exist without the assistance of certain 
stimulants, without which life would be a burden to them; and 
as it does no good to make prohibitions which cannot be kept, 
even though made with the best of intentions, all we can do is to 
endeavor to control certain things and to see that some limit is 
set for their use. 

There are two varieties of tea, both of which, however, are 
gathered from the same plant; their only difference lies in their 
method of preparation; their differentiation is in color black 
and green. The former undergoes a process of fermentation 
and is then dried slowly over charcoal fires, while green tea 
derives its color from having been dried in a fresh condition 
over a wood fire. 
(362) 



Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, Tobacco. 363 

When we want to make good tea we must take finely 
washed leaves and make an infusion, so that the greatest pos- 
sible surface of the leaves shall come in contact with the boiling 
water; and it is best to let this contact be only for a short time, 
as otherwise the tea will be too strong and less beneficial to health. 

The most important elements in tea are thein, a substance 
that is identically similar to caffein in coffee, ethereal oils, tannin, 
and extractives. Green tea contains more thein and ethereal oils, 
and also more tannic acid, than black tea ; and the longer it is in 
contact with boiling water the greater will be the quantity of 
tannic acid derived from it. According to R. Hutchison, 1 the 
ashes of tea contain a large percentage of manganates (1.09 per 
cent, manganese hydroxide) and much iron (4.47 per cent, oxide 
of iron). 

After taking a cup of tea there is a feeling of great com- 
fort; we feel lighter and less fatigued, which is due, as dis- 
covered by Koch and Kraepelin, la to the combined action of the 
ethereal oils and of the thein. The tannic acid contained in tea 
may also give good results in the treatment of certain diar- 
rhoeas. The actions of tea are very similar to those of coffee, 
which is only natural, since both contain the same chemical agent, 
thein or caffein. Still, though chemically the same, physiolog- 
ically doubtless there are some slight differences. Although both 
promote endurance in physical and mental work, according to 
some views, still in many people nervous irritability, such as 
sleeplessness, is greater from tea than from coffee. Coffee is a 
better diuretic than tea, and it has been found that common salt is 
eliminated in the larger quantity after taking coffee. For weak 
stomachs neither is advisable. 

In many cases tea is less easily assimilated than coffee, on 
account of digestive disturbance caused by its tannin contents; 
while to many others tea proves more suitable than coffee. 
When these beverages are taken in large quantities there are 

1 Hutchison: "Food and the Principles of Dietetics," London, 1901. 
I'Koch and Kraepelin: "Psychologies die Arbeiten," vol. i, p. 378, 1895. 



364 Old Age Deferred. 



very serious symptoms of nervous disorders, such as great ex- 
citability, sleeplessness, palpitation of the heart, trembling, etc. 
Indeed, sometimes the very serious condition of actual intoxi- 
cation is brought about. 

It is quite amazing what large quantities of tea are con- 
sumed in certain countries in England, for example; and in 
many instances the moderate use of good wine would cer- 
tainly create less mischief than the immoderate use of tea. 
Tea is not so beneficial to the kidneys as coffee, and as we have 
mentioned in the chapter on the hygiene of the kidneys, irri- 
tation of the kidney tissues may be at times observed after the 
use of tea. As in the case of alcohol, moderation with tea and 
coffee is necessary. According to the researches of Bottger even 
weak infusions of tea and coffee are harmful to children, and 
strong infusions to grown up people. 

The most important substance in coffee is caffein, a product 
already mentioned as being chemically identical, with thein. 
When we take a cup of coffee about o. i gramme of caffein enters 
the system, and also 0.2 gramme of tannic acid, as shown by 
Robert Hutchison. When coffee is roasted aromatic oils arise, 
which give coffee its delicious aroma. Coffee acts as a stimulant 
to the heart and also to muscular contractions. Its beneficial 
action on the kidneys has been referred to. When coffee is taken 
it is more hygienic to take it not too strong, and invariably with 
cream or milk. 

According to Emil Fisher, caffein is a thrice methylated 
xanthin, from which it can be produced artificially. As caffein, 
or thein, contains purin bodies, they also augment the amount 
of uric acid in the body, and especially so when they are taken in 
large quantities. Because coffee, tea, or cocoa give rise to uric 
acid, Haig would like to banish them entirely from the diet. We 
do not feel inclined to follow Haig in such a fanatical view, for 
after all it is nearly impossible to so live that we should not 
introduce some small amount of uric acid into the system; we 
are always producing a certain amount of it in the system, as 



Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, Tobacco. 365 

already mentioned, and whether a trifle more or less be taken can 
make no difference, as minute quantities of uric acid cannot play 
an important role if our kidneys are in good condition to elimi- 
nate them. With a large amount of meat we eliminate two grams 
of uric acid in every twenty-four hours, and even with an entirely 
vegetarian diet the urine still contains 0.2 to 0.7 gramme, accord- 
ing to Bunge. Should we be so unreasonable as to refuse a 
person a cup of weak tea or coffee, after their having been accus- 
tomed to such for a lifetime, merely to avoid a few more atoms of 
uric acid. Especially should we refuse them a weak cup of coffee, 
remembering that such is a good diuretic and assists in the elimi- 
nation of baneful products through the kidneys? Only to 
actually gouty people might such a veto, perhaps, be reasonably 
applied. 

Cocoa is a very valuable article of food, and at the same 
time a very mild stimulant. As its active principle it contains 
theobromin, which is a twice methylated xanthin. In its chemical 
and physiological actions theobromin is very similar to caffein. 
It is, however, in some respects superior to caffein. Thus it can 
assist muscular activity, according to some authorities, to a 
higher degree than caffein or thein. 

Cocoa has the further advantage of being more digestible 
than coffee or tea ; and as a foodstuff it shows a great superiority 
over both the latter, as it contains 12 per cent, of albumin, 13 
per cent, of carbohydrates, and contains fat indeed, about 50 
per cent. in a fresh condition. 

Cocoa presents fewer drawbacks than tea or coffee; it is 
less exciting to the nervous system, more digestible, and much 
more nutritious also. We think, therefore, it is clearly indicated 
as the best of all stimulants, and, for reasons already stated, we 
are not afraid to recommend it, in spite of the fact that it may 
nominally increase the amount of uric acid. Cocoa was also the 
favorite beverage of the great botanist Linne. 

Chocolate is composed of cocoa and a large quantity of 
sugar, and is quite a pleasant sugar food, which doubtless can 



3G6 Old Age Deferred. 



be used with profit as a dessert to a lacto-vegetarian diet. It is 
also suitable for the use of tourists and sporting men in order 
to enable them the better to endure great fatigue. We often 
recommend its use in its best quality and in small quantities to 
those people from whose diet meat is excluded. 

Tobacco is a plant, the leaves of which, when prepared by a 
special process and smoked in the shape of cigars, or in pipes, 
are able to produce in many people a feeling of exhilaration; 
and many such smokers are able to do more work, especially brain 
work, with the aid of a good cigar. Tobacco contains, in addi- 
tion to noxious salts, a poisonous alkaloid, nicotine, which pro- 
duces in small amounts in those not accustomed to it, and in all 
people if in larger quantity, a condition of intoxication. When 
nicotine is taken for many years, and sometimes even in a shorter 
time, either by smoking or chewing, very injurious consequences 
from nicotine poisoning may ensue. According to Konig, cigar- 
ettes are the most dangerous in this respect. It is quite a mistake 
to think that no nicotine is introduced into the system through 
smoking; and in chewing mixtures the presence of foreign 
matters must not be overlooked. Nicotine may exercise a fatal 
action on various organs for instance, on the inner parts of the 
eye and the optic nerve, and the nervous system; but without 
doubt its most injurious action is on the heart and the stomach. 
At first it may cause only an irregular pulse and an occasional 
feeling of a stopping of the heart; but if continued, in spite of 
these symptoms, for a long time, it can undoubtedly produce the 
condition of atheromatosis, and will assist in the development of 
arteriosclerosis, which is probably caused by the action of this 
substance on the adrenals ; for it has been noted by many leading 
authorities e.g., Prof. Isaac Adler, of New York that tobacco 
produces effects similar to adrenalin. 

According to Sir Lauder Brunton 2 and others, tobacco 
raises the blood-pressure, sometimes enormously. As Brunton 
says: "I do not know that there is anything that causes such 
2 Brunton: Lectures on the Action of Medicine, p. 321, 1897. 



Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, Tobacco. 367 

a tremendous contraction of the vessels and raises blood-pressure 
to such an enormous extent as does nicotine, except, perhaps, the 
extract of suprarenal capsules, which has an action almost 
identical with nicotine." 

It has also been shown by Esser 3 that chronic nicotine 
poisoning is able to produce in animals a great disturbance of 
the heart and histological alterations of the vagus fibers, and 
that if nicotine is injected into the circulation it excites the vagus 
and slows the action of the heart. 

Clinically we have observed the great frequency of arterio- 
sclerosis in great smokers, but we do not think that two or three 
light cigars a day, but never before meals, can do any harm, 
save in exceptional cases. Indeed, there are a few instances of 
persons living to be over 100, notwithstanding the fact that they 
were smokers a fact contrary to the observations of Hufeland, 
who pretends that he never heard of such a case. The famous 
English painter, Mr. Frithe, who died in October, 1909, used to 

smoke six cigars a day; and Mr. F , of Chartres, in France, 

passed last year his looth birthday in spite of his having taken 
snuff all his life. 



3 Esser: Arch, fur exper. Path, und Pharm., xlix, p. 168. 



CHAPTER XLV. 

ON SLEEP, AND ITS IMPORTANCE IN RIDDING THE BODY on 
Toxic PRODUCTS. 

SLEEP is one of the most important functions of the body. 
As the physiologist, Bunge, 1 remarks, "a man can live for a 
month without food, but he must succumb after only a few days 
if he fails to sleep." 

That sleeplessness leads to death has been proved by experi- 
ments on animals by Maria de Manasseine, who has demon- 
strated that animals from three to four months old invariably 
died if treated in such manner that they could not sleep at all. At 
the same time their temperature fell four to five degrees, and the 
number of their red blood-corpuscles decreased from five millions 
to two millions per cubic millimeter. Manasseine also discovered 
important changes in the brain of animals which had died from 
sleeplessness. 

Before we get sleepy, as a rule, we feel tired and suffer 
from fatigue. Working from morning to night for even idle 
persons work through the action of their organs our mus- 
cles make numerous contractions, and it has been demonstrated 
by Weichardt 2 that toxic products are thus accumulated in them. 
This savant made animals perform very fatiguing movements for 
several consecutive hours; he then injected extracts from those 
muscles which had been subjected to such exercise, into other 
animals, which animals in turn exhibited symptoms of great 
fatigue; and he has gone so far as to show that such animals 
may even die during the next twenty to forty hours. 

Similar conditions prevail in human beings to a greater 
or less degree. According to Prof. Obersteiner, of Vienna, 



l Bunge : Loc. cit. 

2 Weichardt: Munchener Med. Woehenschrift, Nu. 1, 1904; and Ver- 
handlungen der Physiolog. Gesellschaft, Berlin, Dec. 5, 1906. 

(368) 



Sleep and Ridding the Body of Toxic Products. 369 

and Binz, sleep is produced by an accumulation of the products 
of fatigue in the brain, and these substances are carried off dur- 
ing sleep. Thus sleep is similar to a condition of autointoxi- 
cation caused by the accumulation of the products of work, be 
it muscular or mental, during the time that we are awake. 

In the next chapter we shall show that sleeplessness occurs 
in all cases where the thyroid gland is degenerated. This gland, 
as we show in different parts of this book, destroys the toxic 
products formed in the body. When this gland is degenerated 
these products cannot be destroyed, and thus a condition of 
autointoxication will follow, as in myxoedema, which has sleep- 
lessness as one of its most typical symptoms. 

According to our present physiological knowledge the cen- 
ter of sleep is seated in the brain just as are other functions, such 
as intelligence, will power, imagination, etc. As we have 
mentioned in the chapter on the agencies which control the 
condition of our nervous system and mentality, all these are 
changed when the thyroid is altered, for they suffer alteration 
after the thyroid is removed or destroyed by disease ; and, on the 
other hand, they can be improved by thyroid treatment. Thus, 
sleep being one of these functions, it is only logical to assume 
that the thyroid controls sleep, which proposition we shall sup- 
port with a mass of evidence in our next chapter; we will also 
mention there that after the injection of adrenalin, in the vicinity 
of the brain, Dr. Zeigan 3 has produced sleepiness in animals. 
Adrenalin produces an anaemic condition of the parts into which 
it is injected, caused by the contraction of the blood-vessels. 

There has been a dispute on this question, whether it is 
hypersemia of the brain, or its anaemic condition, which induces 
sleep. 

In addition to the experiments of Dr. Zeigan, which we 
have referred to, and with which we will deal further in our 
next chapter, there are also other circumstances which support 
the idea that in sleep the brain must be in an anaemic condition. 

3 Zeigan: Therapeutische Monatshefte, p. 193, 1904. 

24 



370 Old Age Deferred. 



We know that in order to fall asleep the brain must 
be at complete rest, for otherwise it is impossible to sleep; 
if the function of the brain is roused by any exciting influ- 
ence, as for instance, if we ponder deeply over any scientific 
problem, sleep is out of the question. We think this can be amply 
proved by a very interesting experiment carried out by the physi- 
ologist, Mosso, in order to show that the process of thought 
produces a hyperaemia of the brain. Mosso made a man lie 
horizontally on a sort of scale, so that the balance was perfectly 
level. The subject was then told to think deeply, and upon so 
doing the head end became heavier, and the balance was depressed 
in that direction. 

We can also note that any other agency which produces a 
greater flow of blood to the brain will be an impediment to sleep. 
For instance, many people are unable to sleep when they have 
taken a certain amount of alcohol, such as wine, just before 
going to bed; and this is more observable in those who are un- 
accustomed to alcohol, and who become flushed, feel hot in the 
head, and become mentally excited after taking even small quanti- 
ties. On the other hand persons accustomed to spirit drinking, in 
whom no such symptoms are exhibited, may possibly be able 
to sleep; this demonstrates toxic action, which may be followed 
by deep sleep, by the action of alcohol on the thyroid gland. 
Taken in small quantities alcohol excites thyroid action, but taken 
in large quantities it causes its exhaustion as already previously 
mentioned. 

Long ago it was accepted as a well-known fact that a hot 
head and flushed face prevent good sleep; but good regular sleep 
is obtained when the head is cold. 

Sleepiness after dinner is attributed by Bunge to the ac- 
cumulation of blood in the digestive organs, which produces an 
anaemia of the brain. As we show in the next chapter, the altera- 
tion in the thyroid by its destruction of toxic products from the 
intestine, may also in part do this. 

Very interesting experiments have been carried out by 



Sleep and Ridding the Body of Toxic Products. 371 

Christern, 4 under the direction of Prof. Kreis, of Freiburg, 
who showed that the pressure of blood in the cavity of the skull 
of a boy decreased while he was asleep. 

As we have already stated, sleep is attributed generally to 
a condition of autointoxication. When we rise in the morning, 
after having slept well and soundly during the night, we feel so 
fresh that these toxic products must assuredly have left the body 
during the night. On the other hand, after a sleepless night we 
feel so miserable and weak that the supposition is not unjustified 
that possibly we have not gotten rid of these harmful products. 
Professor Bouchard has endeavored to show, by an examination 
of urine passed during the night, that this has a greater toxic 
action when injected into animals than has urine passed during 
the day. 

As before mentioned, according to Obersteiner and Binz, 
during sleep the products of fatigue, which have accumulated in 
the brain during the day, are removed by the blood. 

Everything points to the fact that through sleep we are 
getting rid of toxic products; and sleep is thus a function, the 
regularity of which is of the utmost importance for our pros- 
pects for a prolonged youth and healthy old age. 

4 Quoted after Bunge. 
6 Bouchard: Loc. cit. 



CHAPTER XLVI. 
ON THE CAUSATION OF SLEEP, SLEEPINESS, AND INSOMNIA. 

WHEN any one is affected by African sleeping sickness, he 
wants to sleep at all times. We observed the case of an officer 
of the Belgian Congo Army, suffering from this sickness, who 
actually feel asleep over his soup while at table. Dr. Willems, 
of Brussels, also mentions a case of a patient who fell asleep 
during his wedding, and of another who went to sleep on the 
doorstep while in the act of calling on him for advice. 

Discovery of the cause of such a marked degree of sleepiness 
caused by disease should be of the greatest possible assistance in 
solving the mystery which enshrouds the lesser degree of sleepi- 
ness found in normal cases. We will, therefore, now dis- 
cuss the question of the cause of the uncontrollable desire to 
sleep in cases of sleeping sickness. 

As we pointed out in a communication to the German Con- 
gress of Medicine in Wiesbaden, in 1905, sleeping sickness is 
clinically and essentially a condition quite different to trypanoso- 
miasis. It undoubtedly is the consequence of the former, which 
is caused by the bite of the tsetse fly (Glossina Palpalis) ; but 
sleeping sickness presents entirely different clinical symptoms from 
the first, and it also takes a much longer time, sometimes five to 
seven years, to develop, after the preceding trypanosomiasis. 

As we could not fail to observe, the above case presented 
all the appearances of a myxoedematous condition, among 
others the same walk, slowness of movement and of speech, and 
the same apathetic mental state, with the same dullness of mem- 
ory; and it was surprising to witness how all these symptoms 
improved only a few days after thyroid treatment had been 
instituted. 

The pathological and anatomical changes in patients suffer- 
(372) 



Causation of Sleep and Insomnia. 373 

ing from African sleeping sickness, described by the English and 
Portuguese Commission charged with the study of this disease, 
present also a great similarity to the changes found in myx- 
cedema, and this is especially the case in connection with the 
central nervous system. Thus we find in both conditions similar 
changes, such as destruction of the nerve cells and nerve 
processes, chromatolysis, disappearance of the Nissl bodies, and 
also the same typical agglomeration of white blood-corpuscles in 
and around the blood-vessels, etc. The most striking point in 
reference to this similarity is the fact that the condition in the 
central nervous system is in both conditions named alike, viz., 
pylo-encephalo-myelitis. Walter Edmunds has found similar 
changes in dogs and monkeys after removal of the thyroid. 

This singular similarity also coincides with the etiology 
of the two conditions. Myxcedema is most often the conse- 
quence of a previous infectious disease; in the case of sleeping 
sickness, this previous infectious disease is trypanosomiasis. In 
trypanosomiasis we find all the symptoms of Graves's disease. 
In the chapter on the agencies which grant us immunity against 
infections and intoxications, we explain the presence of the symp- 
toms of Graves's disease. The symptoms of trypanosomiasis can 
be explained in the same way, as can those which occur in other 
infectious diseases, as they are expressions of the defense of the 
thyroid against infection. The consequence of such overwork of 
the thyroid is its degeneration, which results in the symptoms of a 
myxcedematous condition, as found in sleeping sickness. 

According to Koch, arsenic, in the form of atoxyl, can give 
good results in such a condition; but with arsenic we introduce 
one of the main elements contained in the thyroid gland, and 
arsenic can also afford favorable results in the treatment of 
myxoedema. 

The most typical symptom of African sleeping sickness is 
the great somnolence which cannot be controlled or resisted, 
as stated in the few examples given above. This somnolence is 
also one of the typical symptoms of myxoedema, being according 



374 Old Age Deferred. 



to Pilcz, one of the four cardinal symptoms of this disease. We 
also find this in animals or persons in which the thyroid has been 
removed. We have observed dogs in which this has been done, 
and they were always so fast asleep that the loudest noise could 
not rouse them. From the foregoing th^re can be no doubt that 
the thyroid gland has something to do with sleep, and this is best 
exemplified by the circumstance that there is sleepiness in all 
those conditions where the thyroid gland is degenerated, as in 
the instances, just quoted, of myxoedema and of animals in which 
the thyroid has been removed. In addition to these examples, 
sleepiness can also be observed in cases of tumors of the pituitary 
body for instance, in acromegaly. However, as has been 
shown by Gley, Rogowitsch, 1 Stieda, 2 Sajous, 3 and others, the 
pituitary gland and the thyroid are in a very close relationship, 
and, as I have also pointed out in a previous paper, we find pretty 
constantly alterations of the thyroid gland in acromegaly. 
Salmon also mentions that in tumors of the pituitary body, with 
sleepiness, there was generally found an atrophic condition of 
the thyroid. 

Sleepiness is frequently observed in certain cases of obesity. 
Such a condition was described several years ago, under the 
name narcolepsy, by Sainton. I have also observed similar cases. 
Thus, an English patient of mine, a gentleman weighing 260 
pounds, would fall asleep on any occasion in church, at the 
theatre, and at concerts ; and I have heard of a similar case from 
a confrere (related to me by Dr. Echlin, of Ottawa), who was 
a very fat man and who snored much louder during an operation 
than did the narcotized young lady, whom Dr. Echlin was operat- 
ing on for appendicitis. 

The sleepiness in these cases must also be attributed to the 
thyroid gland, which governs metabolism, as shown by the 
researches of Prof. Magnus Levy, 4 of Berlin, Thiele, Nehring, 

1 Loc. cit, 
2Loc. cit. 

3 Sajous : Loo. cit. 

4 Path, des Stoffwechsels of v. Noorden, second edition, vol. ii. 



Causation of Sleep and Insomnia. 375 

etc., and also by my own works. The fat-reducing action of 
thyroid extracts confirms this clearly. 

Sleepiness is a frequent symptom of chlorosis; and it is a 
fact that in chlorosis the thyroid is very often altered, which 
might thus explain it. 

Sleep produced by narcotics and alcohol can also be brought 
in relation with altered thyroid functions. We have already 
mentioned that we have observed during narcosis with chloro- 
form and ether a marked swelling of the thyroid gland, indi- 
cating a condition of hyperactivity, which is followed by exhaus- 
tion; and after previous mental excitation, depression and sleep 
follow. The action of alcohol on the thyroid has also been 
explained in a previous chapter on alcohol. 

The sleepiness we notice after a heavy dinner, and more 
particularly after partaking of a large amount of meat, can also 
be traced to thyroid changes ; for we know that the thyroid gland 
destroys toxic products formed in the intestines, especially those 
toxines caused by the destruction of albuminoids, as shown by 
Blum. 

The best proof, however, of the truth of the assertion that 
a degenerated state of the thyroid produces sleepiness, is to be 
found in the fact, which we have established by a number of 
observations on patients, and also on ourselves, that the serum of 
animals, in which the thyroid has been removed, causes sleep. 
We will deal more fully with this in our next chapter on the 
treatment of sleeplessness. 

If sleepiness is so frequent in all degenerative changes of 
the thyroid, on the other hand insomnia is the rule in cases of 
hyperactivity of the thyroid gland, as in Graves's disease, in 
which we know there exists a condition of hyperactivity of the 
thyroid. We also find insomnia in diabetes, but only in the 
preliminary stages, where there is no acetone and diacetic acid in 
the urine. In severe cases we often find, on the contrary, 
sleepiness; and this may be attributed to the fact that severe 
cases of diabetes present features of a myxoedematous condition, 






376 Old Age Deferred. 



as we have found by the disappearance of the acetone and diacetic 
acid through treatment with thyroid extracts. Sleeplessness 
can also be produced artificially by giving thyroid preparations 
in large quantities. 

If sleepiness may be produced by thyroid degeneration, and 
sleeplessness through thyroid hyperactivity, the conclusion is 
not unjustified that the thyroid exerts a controlling influence 
upon sleep; it is, however, quite possible that the other ductless 
glands may also influence sleep. 

Subsequently to my communication to the German Congress 
of Internal Medicine in 1905, wherein I showed that the 
thyroid governs sleep, Dr. Salmon, of Florence, in a monograph 
on sleep, tried to show, without any knowledge of my commu- 
nication, that sleep is governed by the pituitary body. As, how- 
ever, the pituitary body and the thyroid are in close relationship, 
and as Salmon also mentions that in cases of tumors of the 
pituitary body the thyroid has been found atrophic, I am inclined 
to attribute the primary role to the thyroid. We can produce 
sleepiness by the serum of thyroidectomized animals, and sleep- 
lessness by thyroid extracts ; but we do not yet know any similar 
facts about the pituitary body. 

From the communications of various authorities, it appears 
possible also that the adrenals influence sleep as first pointed out 
by Professor Sajous in 1903 in the first volume of his work 
(p. 520) on the Internal Secretions. Dr. Zeigan 5 injected a 
milligramme of adrenalin, mixed with 5 grammes of physiologi- 
cal salt solution, into the vicinity of the brain of cats, producing, 
within one minute, a deep sleep lasting from thirty to fifty 
minutes; and when the cats awoke they remained very drowsy 
for some time afterward. 

From the above observations therapeutic conclusions may 
also be deduced, as we will show in the chapter on the treatment 
of sleepiness and sleeplessness. 



5 Therapeutische monatshefte, p. 193, 1904. 



CHAPTER XLVII. 
HYGIENE OF SLEEP PREVENTION OF INSOMNIA. 

WE are all acquainted with the tale of the man who was 
blind in one eye and deaf in one ear, who at once went to 
sleep when his sound eye and ear were closed. In this case there 
was nothing to stimulate the centers of perception in the brain. 

This example is very instructive for the question we shall 
now have to discuss. The best hygiene of sleep is to avoid all 
agencies that may cause excitation of the brain. We have 
seen, in the preceding chapter, that an anaemic condition of 
the brain must be sought; and this is best attained when the 
brain is at complete rest and nothing is acting on it which may 
cause an afflux of blood, and thus hinder an anaemic condition. 
A sleeping brain must not work, as any kind of mental labor, 
even the smallest noise, when it is able to attract attention by 
having been conveyed to the centers of perception, may impede 
sleep. Sometimes the loudest noise, such as an electric car pass- 
ing with bell ringing, will not awaken us, or prevent our falling 
asleep, if we are accustomed to it; for it will then excite no 
attention and consequently will cause no work for the brain ; but 
should some one speak loudly in an adjoining room, or should any 
unusual noise occur in our vicinity, although infinitely less than 
the above mentioned, it may be sufficient to prevent our sleeping, 
for we pay more attention to it, and thus the repose of the brain 
is prevented. 

The miller will sleep soundly in spite of the rumbling of 
his mill wheels, to which he has been accustomed for years ; but 
should the mill stop he may awake, for this would arrest his 
attention. 

From the foregoing it follows logically that in order to sleep 
soundly it is best to exclude everything that can arouse tHe 

(377) 



378 Old Age Deferred. 



organs of perception, and which, if conveyed to the brain, may 
invite attention and thereby brain work. We must, therefore, 
exclude noise and light from our sleeping chamber, as we all 
know from personal observation that we sleep soundest in a 
room that is thoroughly darkened and where no noise can 
penetrate. 

Some people are accustomed to a slight light in the room 
during the night, for complete darkness would create attention, 
and thus they would not be able to sleep so well. For such the 
light through the transom will be advantageous; but for many 
people such light would prevent them falling asleep. 

When a sleeping chamber is too warm we may be prevented 
from sleeping; people mostly sleep best in a room that is not 
warmed, as this favors an anaemic condition of the brain and 
excludes the sensation of heat that is adverse to sleep. We also 
sleep better in autumn and winter than in summer, unless the 
room be heated and an artificial summer created thereby. 

The air in the room must not be oppressive, so as not to 
invite the attention of our senses of perception ; it would, there- 
fore, be wisest to take the largest room in the house to sleep in, 
and not the smallest, as many do. People with a large bedroom 
and small sitting-room will have more chances for a long life 
than those reversing this order of things. A hygienic bedroom 
must be large, not heated during the night, and the upper part 
at least of the window should always be open, and preferably 
one at a part of the house facing a large garden or open space. 

In order that the brain may be at rest it is essential that 
the other organs should also be resting. Any organ that is 
working, particularly if the work be laborious, or if the organ 
be diseased, will send impulses to the brain. It is very difficult 
to sleep if any part of the body is aching; the sensory nerves 
bring this to the center of perception in the brain, and this 
awakens us. When the stomach is loaded we may the sooner 
drop to sleep, for reasons mentioned in the preceding chapter ; but 
digestion during sleep is more labored, and thus again impulses 



Prevention of Insomnia. 379 

will be sent to the brain. The same occurs when the intestines 
are filled with gases. 

This necessitates the practical advice not to eat too much 
for supper, and particularly not to go to bed for some two and 
a half to three hours at least after that meal; and most people 
will sleep better if they do not take much meat, and for such as 
suffer from sleeplessness not any meat at all, at night. The most 
hygienic hour for our evening meal would be about 7 o'clock, not 
later; and for the prevention of sleeplessness 6 o'clock is better. 

But if it is difficult to sleep with the stomach full, an empty 
stomach may also cause difficulties, particularly when there is much 
hydrochloric acid in the stomach. A glass of milk and a biscuit 
is a good remedy if awakened from such causes. 

Flatulency also may often be the cause of disturbed sleep, 
and to prevent this certain kinds of food, liable to cause it, should 
not be taken in the evening; such are beans, peas, or lentils, and 
potatoes especially, if beer be taken at the same time. By such 
combinations a regular chemical laboratory in the intestines will 
be formed during the night, and for five to six hours after such a 
meal, or longer, according to the time we go to bed, sleep will be 
disturbed. So long as there is flatulency it is impossible to sleep, 
and the quickest way to put an end to it is to insert a supposi- 
tory of glycerine into the rectum, which will soon cause a copious 
evacuation, provided that the intestines have not been previously 
weakened by too many drugs. After this remedy the flatulency 
will cease, and sound sleep for the rest of the night will follow. 

Many people are apt to awake during the night after five 
or six hours' sleep if they have partaken of much meat at the 
evening meal and then gone at once to bed. Only to catch an 
early morning train would it be permissible to commit such a 
breach of the true hygiene of sleep. To observe this hygiene fully 
we must also avoid taking mineral waters with diuretic action for 
some time before going to bed, for the dilatation of the bladder 
from the accumulated urine may convey sensations to the brain 
and thus disturb sleep. 



380 Old Age Deferred. 



Total sexual abstinence may cause insomnia, especially in 
persons who do not observe complete chastity; for this marriage 
is the best preventive, as it is for other troubles of a like nature. 

In women, when menstruation comes on, there is also dis- 
turbed sleep very frequently ; toid many unmarried women suffer 
from insomnia. 

Sleep can the more easily be disturbed when it is the lightest, 
which is generally the case during the early morning, for which 
reason at this period all noise should be most carefully avoided. 
Sleep about midnight is generally the deepest, and a noise that 
would not disturb us at that hour will frequently do so in the 
early morning hours; thus, the midnight hours being the best 
for sleep, it seems advisable to go to bed about ten or half-past ten, 
and it is certainly not hygienic to retire after twelve, as then it is 
more difficult for most people to get asleep than it is at ten or 
eleven. 

It follows from the preceding considerations that mental 
work in the hours before going to bed will be contrary to the 
hygiene of sleep. When the brain is engaged in intense thought 
there is an afflux of blood thereto, as mentioned before. 
It takes some time before the brain becomes sufficiently anaemic 
for sleep; for which reason also it is not wise to read books, 
especially interesting ones, in bed. It is a very bad habit to read in 
bed until late in the night, as is done by many ladies who complain 
of insomnia and take somnifacient drugs instead of extinguishing 
the light as soon as they go to bed, and excluding all agencies that 
may excite their attention, in order to allow the brain to come to 
a state of rest. 

We must now answer the question : How many hours' sleep 
shall we indulge in? 

On an average, for the adult male, six to seven hours' sleep 
is necessary to feel rested thereafter and to fully appreciate the 
saying that "Sleep is Nature's sweet restorer." Young girls 
and women require much more sleep than do men; but children, 
and especially infants, require the most. 



Prevention of Insomnia. 381 

Infants are usually almost always asleep, possibly owing to 
the fact that the thyroid and other ductless glands are not yet 
fully active; and for this reason children also require longer 
sleep. The older we get the less sleep we require. Sometimes 
in old age there is obstinate insomnia, which is due to changes 
in the blood-vessels of the brain, by which high blood-pressure is 
caused and the anaemic condition of sleep prevented. 

It is unwise to say you must sleep six, seven, or eight hours 
to have enough. Each individual requires a different time accord- 
ing to his bodily requirements, which he must study by careful 
observation. The deeper the sleep, the shorter will be the time 
that will be required for it. The essential thing is to feel rested 
in the morning, and it does not matter if we have slept only five 
and one-half hours if we only feel that we have slept enough. 
There are many people, usually over 50 years of age, who feel 
rested and perfectly well after but five hours' sleep. But if after 
even seven hours' sleep we still have a feeling of weariness and 
depression, so to speak, we have not freed the body of toxic prod- 
ucts during sleep, so the time was insufficient and must be made 
up the following night. 

It is a very strange thing, when we have not been able to 
sleep long enough for one or two nights, and we do not feel in 
good condition in consequence, that a longer sleep on the third 
night will be able to restore us entirely. I believe this is a clinical 
argument in favor of the theory that sleep serves to free the 
body from the products of intoxication, which may be stored 
up for two or three days and disappear after one night's suffi- 
cient sleep. 

Too much sleep may be nearly as bad as too little. After 
sleep too long continued we feel very heavy and oppressed; we 
must, therefore, observe the right medium in this as in every- 
thing else. The greatest maxim for longevity is moderation in 
all things. 

Granted the great importance of sleep as a function of 
ridding the body of toxic products and of replacing spent energy, 



382 Old Age Deferred. 



it will be only too natural for us to do our best to assure its 
regular performance if we are desirous of living long and retain- 
ing the vigor of youth as much as possible. Indeed, sleeplessness, 
if continued for a few nights, is most dangerous in tending to 
produce premature old age. We have only to look at the face 
of a person who has passed a sleepless night or nights and we 
shall see sunken eyes, hollow cheeks, and pendant features which 
bear a strong resemblance to the face of an elderly person. It is 
then interesting to note how one night of sound sleep will restore 
the normal youthful appearance, which is an indication of the 
beneficial influence of sleep in the problem of senility. 

Sleepless nights must be avoided by every means. If pos- 
sible never travel at night, unless we feel assured that our sleep 
on the train will not be disturbed; always, if we can, give the 
preference to day travel. The less often we go to bed after 
midnight the better will be our chances for the retention of youth 
and a long life. 

Going to bed early enables us to rise early; and this is a 
powerful factor in long life, proven by the fact that the majority 
of people living to be 100 or over were early risers. The great 
importance o<f this has been perpetuated by Franklin, the founder 
of many notable societies and institutions, in the familiar verse : 

"Early to bed, and early to rise, 
Makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise." 

Franklin lived to> be 85 years old. 

We have often noticed very old people go to bed after 
sunset and rise with the earliest dawn. As a rule, people who 
go to bed early, some hours before midnight, enjoy the soundest 
sleep because of the fact that sleep is always deepest at about 
midnight. Usually only those living in villages can indulge 
in this healthy habit, and doubtless this is one of the reasons for 
their long life and robust health. 



CHAPTER XLVIII. 
THE TREATMENT OF SLEEPINESS AND INSOMNIA. 

WE have mentioned in a previous chapter that insomnia 
is a source of great danger to our prospects for a continued 
youthfulness and a long life. 

Before dealing fully with this subject it may be useful to 
refer to the treatment of sleepiness also, as our remarks concern- 
ing this will tend to explain better the novel and most rational 
treatment of insomnia which we here advocate. 

We have already seen that the degeneration or removal of 
the thyroid gland produces sleepiness, and its hyperactivity 
sleeplessness, as in Graves's disease. It therefore appears ra- 
tional that if we wish to treat sleepiness we must first create a con- 
dition of hyperactivity in the thyroid gland, or at least we must 
improve its action. 

The best way to attain this is to administer thyroid extracts, 
which, as we have stated before, are able, according to our 
researches, not only to improve sleepiness, but even to create the 
opposite condition sleeplessness. 

We have already referred in another part of this book to 
our observation of a case of sleeping sickness in an officer of 
the Belgian Congo Army, who was almost always asleep. To 
him we administered thyroid tablets, and after a few clays 
there was a marked change in his mental attitude and in his 
whole condition, and the sleepiness improved. But we ob- 
tained still better results in the case of a very stout man weigh- 
ing 124 kilos, who was always falling asleep, so much so that 
he was arrested in the picture gallery at Versailles, where he 
had fallen asleep while looking at the pictures. This patient 
would fall asleep when out walking, and this occurring in the 
streets of Carlsbad, he was picked up under the impression that 

'383) 



384 Old Age Deferred. 



he was drunk, while in reality he was perfectly sober. Having 
treated him for a few weeks with thyroid tablets, his sleepiness 
was much improved, so much so that he did not fall asleep in 
our waiting room, where formerly the other patients would 
prevent him from falling off his chair when sleeping. This 
gentleman was the patient of Professor Launois, of Paris, and 
on his return home after a six weeks' treatment we found that 
he was cured of his sleepiness and had lost 16 kilos (35^ 
English pounds). 

We were also able to observe, in our own person, the ac- 
tion of thyroid extracts; for, having for a few weeks taken 
two tablets daily (about 10 grains), we began to suffer from 
sleeplessness, and our rest did not again become natural until 
after we had discontinued the thyroid treatment. This was an 
experiment that we made for our own personal instruction, and 
judging from the results, we considered that they indicated the 
trial of thyroid extracts in cases of habitual sleepiness. 

To treat insomnia we naturally must first endeavor to 
prevent it, to do which we must bear in mind the advice ten- 
dered in the chapter on the hygiene of sleep. The best means 
to insure good sleep is to partake of a light early supper, and to 
have a very dark and quiet room. It is decidedly unreasonable to 
resort to injurious drugs for sleeplessness, instead of darken- 
ing the window and transom to exclude the light, and sleeping 
in a room where no noise can penetrate. 

Persons suffering from sleeplessness must, above all, lead 
a hygienic life; they must take exercise every day, walking or 
running in the open air, even in cold weather, so as to produce 
some fatigue before going to bed. Sitting the whole afternoon 
and living in an overheated room is absolutely inimical to sound 
sleep ; but overexercise and excessive fatigue may also be as bad. 

It is an excellent thing for persons, whose sleep is not as it 
should be, to drive in an automobile or carriage for an hour, at 
least, before going to bed, the former being preferable owing to 
the greater current of fresh air. We often notice children get- 



Treatment of Sleepiness and Insomnia. 385 

ting drowsy after being out in the pure open air ; and in places 
which are situated at a certain height up a mountain, we often 
obtain excellent results in insomnia. 

Many people sleep better after a warm (not hot) bath, last- 
ing twenty minutes at least, just before going to bed; on the 
other hand, a cold bath might prove too stimulating and hinder 
sleep. 

Some people experience difficulty in falling asleep; others 
easily do this, but awake soon, after four to five hours of 
sound sleep, and then cannot fall asleep again. A very dark 
and quiet room may overcome this perhaps, but a room into 
which light enters from the street or through the transom will 
never do so. When there has been no sleep for a whole night, 
and no sleep on the second night till after midnight, we may give 
a remedy to produce sleep, but not otherwise. In principle we are 
decidedly against the use of remedies to induce sleep, and we 
only permit such after two partially sleepless nights when on 
the third night there is no sleep until midnight, or after a thor- 
oughly sleepless night when there is also no sleep the following 
night till midnight. 

We have already mentioned that the effects of one sleepless, 
or several partially sleepless, nights, may be compensated for by 
one thoroughly good night's sleep. As through sleeplessness 
toxic products are, in all probability, retained in the body, certain 
hygienic rules must be observed after a sleepless night, thus, for 
instance, a cold room ought to be heated before we get up, for the 
effects of such a night are, according to our observations, felt 
more when we get up in a cold room than when we get up in a 
well-warmed one. 

It will also be most beneficial to take a very hot, or even a 
Turkish or Russian, bath after a sleepless night, in order to elimi- 
nate toxic products by abundant perspiration. An electric light 
bath may give better results, using principally the blue rays, as 
such have a soothing effect upon the nervous system, besides 
creating a free sudorific action. 

25 



386 Old Age Deferred. 



If all the hygienic rules above indicated are applied and 
fail, then the conditions are such that we may resort to sleeping 
remedies, adopting, however, the principle to try first the most 
innocuous, and especially such as the patient will not become 
addicted to the use of. 

The principal object is to diminish the excitability of the 
brain, and bromide is one of the least dangerous remedies to 
obtain this result. We will therefore first try sodium bromide, 
say, 20 grains, in a g*lass of water. Valerian also can give good 
results, and is not a dangerous remedy. There is a German 
preparation, bromural, composed of bromide and valerian, which 
is a very mild sleeping mixture. Chloral is also an excellent 
drug for reducing the excitability of the brain, but it is not so 
harmless as the others. There has, of recent years, been intro- 
duced from Germany a preparation, isopral, made from chloral, 
and for which it is claimed that it is a mild sleeping mixture to 
the use of which people do not become addicted. 

Such remedies may be prescribed when there is only a tem- 
porary sleeplessness and not one of habitual long standing. 
When sleeplessness is more inveterate and obstinate the above 
remedies will give no result, and then stronger drugs must be 
resorted to, such as veronal; but this must never be given in 
large doses, as it may produce in certain persons symptoms 
of intoxication if more than i gramme (15 grains) be taken. 
The principle of this remedy, which contains urea, is to produce 
a condition analogous to intoxication, by producing fatigue. 
None of these agents should be used otherwise than under the 
supervision of a physician. 

Some of our patients complained of heaviness in the head 
after the use of veronal, while others approved of it and found 
that they could also sleep on the following night, even after only 
the one dose. 

It would be most injurious to health to use these sleeping 
mixtures habitually, especially opium and morphine. We have 
mentioned here only a few with which we have experimented on 



Treatment of Sleepiness and Insomnia. 387 

ourselves or tried on patients in cases of necessity, as all such 
remedies may be injurious to the brain if taken often. 

We feel inclined to attribute greater importance to a sleep- 
ing remedy which is based on physiological observations of sleep. 
As we have already stated, thyroid degeneration or removal 
produces sleepiness; we have, therefore, tried the serum of 
animals whose thyroid has been extirpated, and, as will be proved, 
we have had good results in each case. 

Being struck by the similarity of the symptoms of dia- 
betes to those of Graves's disease, and as a logical consequence 
of our researches on the frequency of a hyperactivity of the thy- 
roid in diabetes, we tried a remedy for this condition which 
has produced as good results as many authorities have obtained in 
their treatment of Graves's disease. This is the serum of goats 
from which the thyroid has been removed, prepared according to 
the formula of the celebrated neurologist, Dr. Moebius, of Leipzig, 
who died recently. This remedy, named after its discoverer 
"anti-thyroidin Moebius," has not only afforded us good 
results in the diminution of glycosuria, as we showed by a number 
of cases in the book that we published upon the origin of diabetes, 
but also, what is still more interesting to our present subject, 
every patient suffering from insomnia exhibited an improvement ; 
in fact, there was not a single case which did not benefit by this 
treatment. 1 

Following an automobile accident we suffered much from 
insomnia. We tried this remedy personally, and after doses of 
5 grammes (75 grains) we were each time able to sleep for 
about eight hours, and felt refreshed afterward. We have found 
this remedy superior even to veronal, for the latter, when tried 
personally and afterward in patients, did not give the same effect 
as anti-thyroidin. 

This remedy has, however, one great drawback, and that 
is the exorbitant cost; and it requires to be taken in considerable 
amounts, at least 45 to 70 grains at a dose, although in some 
l Loc. cit. 



388 Old Age Deferred. 



patients a soothing result has been obtained from 20 grains 
three times a day. 

This drug diminishes the excitability of the nervous sys- 
tem, and is, therefore, an excellent remedy for insomnia, 
for it depends on a physiological appreciation of our knowl- 
edge of the influence of the thyroid gland on sleep. We have 
lately published an article on the hypnotic effect of anti-thyroidin 
Moebius in the "Therapie der Gegenwart" of Berlin, Novem- 
ber, 1907. 

Instead of the anti-thyroidin Moebius the extravagant 
price of which forbids its general use we would recommend 
extirpating the thyroid gland of a goat, which is a very simple 
operation, and making use of the milk, following the example of 
Professor Lanz, of Amsterdam, and of Walter Edmunds in 
London. 

Our observations on the great influence of anti-thyroidin 
on sleep were confirmed by Professor Lanz in a discussion 
following an address we delivered before the Society for the Ad- 
vancement of the Medical and Natural Sciences, in Amsterdam, 
on the 1 5th of March, 190$? He also mentioned the case of a 
dog whose master, a peasant, was tending the professor's goats, 
whose thyroids had been removed and whose milk was being 
administered by the professor to his patients suffering from 
Graves's disease. The peasant was told to give the goats' 
milk to his dog, but after a time, the peasant refused to do this, 
as since the goats' milk had been given to the dog, he always 
wanted to go to sleep, even when accompanying his master in 
his walks. 



2 Nederlandsch Tijdschrift voor Geneeskunde, 1905. 



CHAPTER XLIX. 

HYGIENE OF THE SEXUAL GLANDS THE DANGERS OF SEXUAL 
OVERACTIVITY AND OF TOTAL SEXUAL ABSTINENCE. 

WE have referred, in previous chapters of this work, to the 
great influence of the sexual glands on several of the most im- 
portant organs, and shown in what a marvelous way these 
glands affect our vitality and prospects of longevity (see Chap- 
ter V) ; consequently it is only natural that we should use our 
best endeavors to maintain these glands in good working con- 
dition, which we can do in a rational manner by protecting 
them from all harmful agencies, which may be numerous. It 
would exceed the limits of this book to enumerate all the dif- 
ferent causes of diseases of the sexual glands, so we will con- 
fine ourselves to the most frequent, which, although not imme- 
diately producing actual disorders of the glands, may yet lower 
their vitality in the long run and finally lead to their degen- 
eration. 

The infectious diseases of the sexual glands, acquired by 
contagion through sexual intercourse, occupy a prominent place 
among the agencies deleterious to them. They are well dealt 
with in the handbooks on this subject, so will not be further 
referred to here. The best way to avoid them is by marriage. 
This may, in the majority of cases, be a safeguard for the 
man but not for the woman; for, unhappily, in very many in- 
stances women are infected by their husbands as soon as they 
enter the bonds of matrimony. 

In Chapter VII we mentioned the injurious consequences 
of these infections, not only for men, but also for women, and told 
how in the former sexual potency, and in the latter fertility, may 
be ruined by such. The best way to deal with the matter would 
be to pass a law enforcing the examination of the prospective 

(389) 



390 Old Age Deferred. 



husband by a physician; and if such a law were applied also 
to the woman, the propagation of certain hereditary dis- 
eases might be arrested. Long ago Plato thought of such an 
emergency. He recommended that before a marriage judges 
should examine both man and woman, the man to be stark 
naked, and the woman partially so; after the inspection the 
judges were to deliver their opinion whether the couple should 
be married or not. 

Nearly as injurious as infectious diseases may be the abuse 
of the sexual glands by too frequent intercourse, by masturba- 
tion, or by other irritations of these glands, such as excitation, 
without subsequent satisfaction, especially in cases of interrupted 
copulation with a view to avoid offspring. 

Too frequent sexual intercourse may soon sap the vitality 
of these glands and, indeed, hasten the symptoms of old age, 
even in young persons. As already mentioned, even young girls 
may acquire some of the attributes of old age by such means. 
They soon become fat and bloated, the features lose their juvenile 
aspect, and the cheeks become pendant; the muscles lose their 
tonicity, and there is a marked difference between the muscles 
of a young maiden and those of a woman of the same age who 
has been leading a life of debauchery for some time. The latter 
will invariably, if not always, look older which ought to be an 
object lesson on this subject. Premature old age can similarly 
be brought about by constant conditions of exhaustion of the 
ovaries consequent to frequent .pregnancies. When a woman has 
a child year after year, as a rule, especially if living in straitened 
circumstances, she usually looks older; but this is not so in all 
cases, as we have before remarked. 

Moderation, therefore, must be strictly observed. 

The ancient Hindoos recommended to men sexual absti- 
nence of long duration, thinking that by this means the internal 
secretion of the sexual glands would be absorbed into the system 
and that they would thereby reap all the benefits inherent in 
such a secretion. By this it seems that thousands of years before 



Hygiene of the Sexual Glands. 



Claude Bernard and Brown-Sequard the Hindoos already ap- 
preciated the great importance of the internal secretions. 

According to the Prophet Mohamed, sexual intercourse 
should not be more frequent than once in eight days. Zoroaster 
recommends once in nine, Solon and Socrates once in ten, and 
Moses eight days before and eight days after menstruation, and 
Luther twice a week (der Woche Zwie). The Holy Book of 
the Jews, The Talmud, 1 an encyclopaedia of Jewish knowledge 
embracing a period of from 500 years before to 500 years after 
Christ, recommends the following in respect to marital inter- 
course : Young strong men, every day ; workmen, once a week ; 
mental workers, once a month. Acton advises copulation once 
only in from seven to ten days. 2 

Pomeroy says matrimony is Nature's nectar, but if we 
indulge too freely, instead of nectar Nature will offer us water 
or bile, and finally deadly poison. To avoid sexual overactivity 
in married people Kisch recommends a separate bed for man and 
wife. 

Far more dangerous than too frequent intercourse are fre- 
quent excitations of the sexual organs without final sexual satis- 
faction. In this way a continual hypersemia of the caput galli- 
naginis in the prostate can be set up; and as this is where the 
ducts of the seminal vesicles end, premature emissions and impo- 
tency may result. Thus we see that masturbation and inter- 
rupted copulation may produce the same effect; indeed, these 
practices are far more injurious to virility than sexual over- 
activity if indulged in in the normal way. 

Frequent sexual excitations are also very deleterious to the 
female sexual organs, which are thereby brought into a hyper- 
semic condition ; and if this dangerous practice be often repeated 
serious disorders may follow, and especially is this the case if 
intercourse be interrupted before the seminal emission. 



1 Quoted after Prof. Kisch "Das Geschlechtsleben des Weibes," Vienna, 
second edition, 1908. 

2 Quoted after Prof. Kisch, as are most of the quotations in this chapter. 



392 Old Age Deferred. 



According to Professor Kish such preventive coition (con- 
gressus interruptus) may be followed by a relaxation of the 
uterus and chronic metritis. The hypersemia and stagnation of 
the blood may lead to inflammation of the ovaries and parame- 
tritis, and perhaps to new growths. Neugebauer and Pigeolet 
have often observed cancer of the uterus in women who made 
a habit of indulging in sexual intercourse with the use of pre- 
ventives against conception. Metritis and parametritis after 
such a proceeding have been observed by Bircher, Valente, etc. 

Certain abuses of the female sexual organs, such as copula- 
tion during menstruation, may also be ruinous to those organs ; 
metritis, parametritis, ovarian inflammation, etc., may be the 
result of such grave violations of this most elementary rule of 
the hygiene of the sexual glands. 

The ancient Mosaic Laws prescribed the punishment of 
death for intercourse during menstruation. During this period 
all kind of work should be prohibited, and for many women it 
would be wisest to rest completely, especially during the first 
day. 

Women should not marry under a certain age, preferably 
not under 20. With the Spartans no man was allowed to marry 
before 30, and no woman before 20, and we know what a robust 
and strong nation they were. This is most essential to avoid 
premature senility, which can easily develop in women who com- 
mence sexual intercourse at an early age. No woman should be 
permitted to marry until she is fully developed physically and 
mentally. There are cases where women are not fully developed 
at 1 8, or even at 20, and in such cases marriage should be 
deferred to a later period. 

Close observation of the rules for a rational hygiene of the 
sexual organs also demands that chlorotic girls should not marry 
until their condition is improved by iron treatment, the sexual 
organs in cases of severe chlorosis or anaemia not being fit for 
use. 

We have referred to the dangers of sexual overactivity, and 



Hygiene of the Sexual Glands. 393 

we will now endeavor to show that the opposite extreme, viz., 
complete inactivity of these glands, may also lead to disastrous 
consequences. When nature created our different organs they 
were intended to be used, and there is no part and no organ in the 
body that should not fulfil its function (even the appendix, as 
lymphatic tissue, has one). No exception can be made in favor 
of the sexual organs, although the hypocrisy of certain faddists 
would have us believe that these organs alone out of the whole 
body should serve no purpose whatever. Indeed, the whole 
anatomical construction and the physiological working of these 
organs differing in each sex shows that Nature intended them 
to be used in conjunction with each other. 

These organs are glandular formations having, like all 
other glands of the body, a secretion, which, like the secretions of 
the other ductless glands as, for example, the thyroid if pro- 
duced in too large quantities, may have toxic effects. That this 
really is the case is shown by the experiments of Loisel, who 
found that the extracts from the testicles, and still more so from 
the ovaries, if injected into other animals, have toxic effects. 

The sexual glands, being glands with an epithelial formation, 
must certainly produce a secretion; they could not be an 
exception to one of the fundamental laws of anatomy and his- 
tology. The accumulation of this secretion may produce certain 
toxic effects, judging from the experiments of Loisel. 2a We 
may, therefore, conclude that the complete inactivity of these 
glands or, in other words, total sexual abstinence, may have inju- 
rious effects on the general health, as also on the condition 
of the glands themselves; and we are able, by experiments 
and clinical and anatomo-pathological observations, to confirm 
this view. 

Regaud 3 has observed that when guinea pigs are kept for 
a long time in complete sexual abstinence, away from their 
females, the testicles present degenerative changes, and at the 

2 a Loisel : Journal de 1'Anat., xi, p. 536 ; C. R. S. B., L. ix, p. 403. 

3 Regaud: Comptes rendus de 1'Association des Anatomistes p. 198, 1903. 



394 Old Age Deferred. 



same time the volume of the gland is considerably diminished. 
The seminal epithelium shows many cells with signs of degenera- 
tion. He also observed similar signs in the epithelium of the 
seminiferous tubules during winter hibernation, and also in the 
spring when the animals were not sleeping but if they were kept 
in total sexual abstinence. Although they were well nourished 
these animals showed no spermatogenesis. 

Regaud comes to the conclusion that "la continence forcee 
peut done avoir pour consequence des modifications importantes 
de 1' epithelium seminal" enforced abstinence (sexual) may 
thus lead consequently to important modifications of the seminal 
epithelium. 

According to Mingazzini, 4 the ovaries of female animals that 
are kept in captivity and sexual abstinence present degenerated 
follicles, this being very different to the ovaries of other females 
living in freedom, the comparisons having been made in the same 
season of the year. 

There is some evidence to show that similar results may 
happen in man. When men live a long time not for weeks 
or a few months, but for a very lengthened period in total 
sexual abstinence, the size of the testicles may sometimes be 
found diminished. Unfortunately there have not as yet been 
made, at least to our knowledge, histological examinations of 
the sexual glands of those who really have led a life of total 
sexual abstinence. But a remote proof in support of our propo- 
sition that such a condition may lead to histological changes in 
these important glands, is the fact that Baldwin has discovered 
histological changes in the ovaries of hysterical women, of 
whom a large proportion were either spinsters or women who 
became widows early in life. Of course this is but a very 
indirect proof, devoid of the scientific value of the observations 
of Regaud and Mingazzini. 

There are, however, important clinical facts which support 

4 Mingazzini: Corpi lutes veri e falsi; R. F. Laboratorio di Anatomia 
normale della Reale Universita di Roma, vol. iii, 1893. 



Hygiene of the Sexual Glands. 395 

the supposition that total sexual abstinence may lead to alteration 
of these glands. Thus we have observed impotence in the cases 
of several men after sexual abstinence of long duration, which 
entirely disappeared in nearly every case after copulation 
at regular intervals; and we arrive at the conclusion that a 
regular use of these organs, which are intended by Nature to be 
used, is a necessity, and that impotence can frequently be best 
cured by marriage. In marriage only can hygienic and regular 
sexual intercourse best take place ; and thus marriage is the best 
hygiene for the sexual glands. For this and other important 
reasons we will devote a special chapter on marriage, which will 
succeed this. In some maidens near the thirties we can note the 
appearance of symptoms of fading; through the loss of fatty 
tissue those parts of the body that were formerly round become 
angular, and there thus develops the condition of leanness so 
typical of old spinsters; hairs may also appear on the chin and 
upper lip. That all this is caused by the inactivity of the sexual 
glands, which, as already explained, influence the outward 
appearance of the body, is best demonstrated by the fact that 
after marriage a great change takes place in such women, and 
the fading rose-tree blooms again. Thus marriage re-creates 
youth. 

The deleterious effects of total sexual abstinence on the 
sexual glands have also been observed. Professor Kisch noted 
that with women who had lived an active sexual life and who 
had had several children, whom they had fed from the breast, 
menstruation continued till a later period in life than it did in old 
maids, or in women who early in life had become widows, or in 
barren women. 

That total sexual abstinence may have very injurious effects 
on the nervous system, as mentioned in Chapter IV, and 
assist in the development of hysteria and neurasthenia, is shown 
by the fact that when there is an accumulation of semen in the 
male, or a swelling of the Graafian follicles in the female, then 
an excitation of the nervous system follows, with sexual desire. 



396 Old Age Deferred. 



That the nervous system can be excited and even seriously dam- 
aged by too frequent and too excessive impulses conveyed from 
the sexual glands, has been mentioned by us at various times 
in this book. 

The continual resistance to satisfy sexual desire, and espe- 
cially satisfaction by artificial means, may lead to ruinous conse- 
quences for the nervous system and the sexual glands. 

Happily there can be no doubt that many men and women 
lead healthy lives, in spite of their struggles against satisfying 
the desire of the sexual organs to follow their natural bent ; but 
such cases are not the rule, and most of such people have some 
kind of disorder, especially of the nervous system or the digestive 
organs, as, for instance, cardialgia, or acidity of the stomach. 
We have already referred to the alteration in these organs 
following changes in the sexual organs. 

There are people with a frigid disposition, which is cer- 
tainly not normal and such may not be troubled by their sexual 
glands. On the other hand, there are people with too great a 
sexual inclination. The suppression of these desires in them may 
often lead to ruin of the nervous system. Prof. Krafft-Ebing 
found that individuals with neuropathic constitutions often have 
their desires exaggerated in a pathological way, and he came to 
the conclusion that in such persons, through enforced sexual 
abstinences, the nervous system may be ruined. Professor Erb, 
the famous Heidelberg specialist for nervous diseases, declared at 
the Congress of the German Society for the Suppression of 
Vice, held a few years ago at Frankfort, that there are adult 
individuals in whom sexual abstinence for a long time produces 
serious mischief in the nervous system. 

Buddha says : "Sexual instinct is stronger than the iron 
hook with which wild elephants are tamed; it is hotter than 
fire; it is an arrow that pierces the soul of man." 

Briefly, neurologists, especially since Freud's labors, now 
realize the importance of the injurious influences of an abnormal 
sexual life, many disorders of the nervous system and mind hav- 



Hygiene of the Sexual Glands. 397 

ing been traced to the conflict between the demands of nature and 
a too rigorous sexual repression, through fear, disgust, shame, etc. 

One of the pioneers of the movement in Germany for the 
emancipation of women Johanna Elberskirchen demands free 
scope for the sexual feelings of women and their satisfaction 
within physiological limits and according to physiological 
necessity. 

We are of the opinion that, as a rule, there is a certain dif- 
ference between sexual desire in man and the same in woman. 
Man mostly wants satisfaction simply; in women there is gen- 
erally a higher motive: she demands love, and refuses satis- 
faction alone. 

Nature, who has created the sexual organs of male and 
female as a masterpiece of very clever and skilful construction, 
with admirable forethought in even the smallest details of this 
very complicated mechanism, has appointed to them a very im- 
portant purpose, viz., the propagation of the race ; and she pur- 
sues her ends in a most artful way, giving to each sex certain 
attributes by which the opposite may be attracted. The peacock, 
for instance, is furnished with a wonderful collection of beautiful 
feathers to excite the sexual feelings of the hen, which has a 
much plainer exterior. In man the relations are reversed; here 
beauty is more conspicuous in the female, and it is by their 
charms, the attributes of their sex, that men are attracted, who, 
unfortunately, look rather to the beauty of the outside, which 
is transient, than to that of the soul, which is eternal. 

This book is a plea for a simple and natural life, and for 
obedience to the laws of Nature rather than for neglect or 
abuse of them. Sexual desires are the outcome of the existence 
of the sexual glands, and they are enforced upon us in a way 
that is sometimes nearly irresistible after long continued sexual 
abstinence. Disobedience to the imperious commands of Nature 
will draw down upon us her revenge and punishment, and ail- 
ments and disease, and bodily and mental misery, may be the 
consequences of the complete suppression of- the functions of 



398 Old Age Deferred. 



these glands in adults. There may be exceptions, and certain 
women or men may pass a lifetime in such an unnatural way 
without any apparent ill consequences to their health; but such 
are rare. It has been observed not infrequently that spinsters 
were fast fading when they were married, but that after a time 
they looked much younger, especially after their first child. As 
already quoted above from Kisch, sexual life and, therefore, 
youth are longer preserved in women who use their sexual glands 
and have children than in those who do not. Thus there is no 
alternative, and marriage is the safest course. Marriage, if the 
partners are well suited, is indeed the most useful and beneficial 
institution there is ; and, as we will show in the next chapter, it is 
one of the most important agencies in the treatment of old age, 
and for the longest possible conservation of youth. 

But the question now arises, what should those do who 
cannot get married, not through any fault of their own, if they 
should escape all the mischief due to an unnatural suppression of 
the sexual functions or their satisfaction in an unnatural way? 
We will now endeavor to give a few useful hints on the subject. 

First of all, a hypersemic condition of the sexual organs 
should be avoided by all means, and care should especially be 
taken to have the bowels opened every day, as otherwise hyper- 
semia of the pelvic organs will follow. This may also be a 
consequence of rich food and a sedentary life, which, therefore, 
should be avoided. Cold hydrotherapeutic washings of the sur- 
face of the body, particularly of the sexual parts, may also be 
beneficial. As during long sexual abstinence the probability is 
that toxic products are being evolved and are accumulating in the 
system, a good purge every five or six days would seem to be a 
necessity, as also would a hot bath. Reading light literature 
should be avoided. We especially recommend much exercise in 
the open air and sunshine, long walks, mountain climbing, sports, 
long journeys (especially by automobile), etc. 

The best safeguard against sexual desires is an active busy 
life, which affords no opportunity for idle thoughts. 



Hygiene of the Sexual Glands. 



For persons doomed, from one cause or another, to lead a 
life of complete sexual abstinence, the best and safest course to 
prevent sexual desire is to lead a strenuous business life, drown- 
ing the desires in a flood of useful and busy occupations. 

Thus unmarried girls and widows may well pass their time 
in charity, nursing the sick, and other occupations tending to 
make them useful, rather than spend their time in fruitless 
dreams ; and by such occupations they obtain a happiness which 
they might not have found, perhaps, even in married life. 

The surest kind of occupation for the prevention of the 
above mentioned desires is strenuous mental -work. When the 
mind is busy with serious problems these desires cannot obtrude 
themselves ; and, indeed, we have often observed in persons whose 
lives have been devoted to serious scientific work, which has 
entirely absorbed them, a total absence of sexual desire for a 
long time, and even impotency. This, however, we will con- 
sider later as a consequence of defective hygiene during mental 
labor (see Chapter L, on the hygiene of the brain worker). 

We do not recommend mental work so exaggerated beyond 
the ordinary limits that it might cause harm to the brain and 
nervous system ; but it is certain that when mental work is done 
within reasonable limits, and when it occupies the greater part 
of our time, but not all, it is a great protection against sexual 
desires, restricting them without any injury to the functions 
of the sexual glands. 

Thus, as we see, there are certain remedies against sexual 
desires for those that cannot satisfy them; but the most natural 
solution of this question can be brought about in the safest way 
by marriage. 



CHAPTER L. 

ON MARRIED LIFE AS AN IMPORTANT MEANS FOR PROLONGING 

LIFE. 

OPINIONS differ as to whether married life can be gener- 
ally considered as a source of happiness ; some there are who say 
it is the acme of happiness, while others do not agree that it is 
exactly a heaven on earth. 

Personally we possess positive evidence in favor of the view 
that marriage can make people very happy; for we know of a 
number of cases of suicide following the loss of husband or wife, 
and we have a clear recollection of seeing many widows or wid- 
owers break down at the mere mention of their departed, years 
after the bond of matrimony had been thus severed. 

Certainly agencies that can make people happy, such as 
marriage, ought to be able to lengthen existence and remove 
petty cares, worry, and sorrow that are so prevalent in this life, 
and which, in the long run, tend to induce premature old age. 
As the Germans say, "Getheiltes Leid ist halbes Leid" ("a sorrow 
shared is but half a sorrow"), and the man who can share his 
misfortunes with a beloved wife does not carry his burden alone. 

This is of the greatest importance, for, as we shall show in 
the next chapter, the body is governed by the mind, and thus 
mental emotions of a depressing nature assist in the development 
of disease and the symptoms of premature old age, in combating 
which a single man is always at a great disadvantage. 

We shall also show that, as a rule, our mishaps and disap- 
pointments are due to our own fault of omission or commission, 
to want of foresight, etc. It is a positive fact that many a man, 
famous in history, owed his position and success to the advice 
and assistance of a clever and sympathetic better half ; this term 
is, indeed, not devoid of foundation, for a man does not so seldom 
(400) 



Married Life as Means for Prolonging Life. 401 

become perfect through his better half, the woman. The female 
character is so essentially different to the male, because of her 
different anatomical and physiological constitution, that by the 
uniting of the female to the male some deficiency in the char- 
acter in the latter may be supplied, and vice versa, with equal 
benefit to both. Thus the uniting of the woman to the man is 
most desirable, if only for this reason. 

It would lead us too far to insist on the enormous advan- 
tage of married life for public morality, for the prevention and 
repression of crime, and even for the welfare of the State, the 
soundest foundation of which is family life. Each family is a 
little community in itself, with the father at the head as king, and 
the mother as queen. And as the State wants subjects, so the 
family wants children ; for the great pleasures connected with the 
various stages of a child's growth from the cradle to the altar, 
serve as the key to a lengthened and the longest possible existence. 
Cornaro gives us a very instructive example in his saying "in 
the society of the young we become young again ;" and so chil- 
dren restore youth. 

Not only because of the favorable mental influence exer- 
cised by marriage must this be recommended as one of the most 
efficient means for attaining a long life, but also because of vari- 
ous other advantages induced by the improved hygienic condi- 
tions of various organs. Thus, marriage is able to satisfy the 
sexual desires, the complete suppression of which is so injurious 
to most healthy men and women, without there being any risk 
of contracting diseases of the sexual organs with their terrible 
consequences. For this reason alone married persons have the 
best chances for preserving their youth, provided they exercise 
moderation and do not indulge in the pleasures of matrimonial 
life beyond the physiological limits. 

It is much easier to observe the rules of hygiene for the 
various organs , as outlined previously, in married than in single 
life ; for in the latter condition one is concerned for himself alone, 
whereas in the; former,, fou.r eyes instead of two are on the watch. 

26 



402 Old Age Deferred. 



Thus the first symptoms of disease are often visible to the eyes 
of a loving wife, and, as prevention is better than cure, such a 
disease may then be checked by promptly applied treatment. Most 
diseases could be cured if treatment could be administered at 
the very beginning, whereas curable diseases often terminate 
fatally from neglect of a sufficienctly early treatment. There can 
be no doubt about it, but that as a rule, a married man is far 
better nursed, in case of sickness, than is a single man ; and we 
all know that a good nurse can often do just as much good, 
sometimes even more, than the most skilful physician. It is 
certain that the therapeutic results in the English and American 
hospitals would be inferior to those obtained at present if there 
were not such excellent nurses, of whom, these countries may 
indeed well be proud. Marriage, through the regular habits it 
causes, can also favorably influence certain chronic diseases ; thus, 
according to Renon, even heart affections can be favorably 
influenced by married life. 

As a rule married life also implies the possession of a home, 
whereas a single man or woman most often have no real home. 
They are obliged to frequent restaurants for their meals, where 
there is great likelihood of their damaging their stomach or in- 
testines by irregularities in food or drink at least in the case of 
men, who also have no reason to stay indoors in the evening, and 
are thus more exposed to the life-shortening influences of an 
irregular life. 

As we have already seen, the best means for attaining a 
very long life is moderation in everything; and there is no doubt 
that this can be much better observed in married than in single 
life. 

For all the foregoing reasons we must emphatically advise 
all who desire long life and the preservation of youthfulness 
as long as possible, to marry, and if they become bereaved, to 
marry again. Celibacy is a condition unknown to uncivilized 
nations ; the ancient Hindoos considered it a crime that should be 
punished ; and, according to Du Perron, the Parsees of the present 



Married Life as Means for Prolonging Life. 403 

time, who still follow the religion of Zoroaster, regard celibacy 
as a deadly sin. According to Tsen-ki-tong, 1 an old maid is a 
phenomenal rarity in China. 

The best proof of the supposition that marriage is conducive 
to long life is the example given us by the long-lived patriarchs 
mentioned in another chapter, nearly all of whom were married ; 
for if they became widowers, even though over 100 years in age, 
they soon married again. 

It is one of the saddest sights on earth to see an old bach- 
elor alone in the world ; and we consider that the happiest beings 
are those who, in their green old age, are surrounded by numer- 
ous children and grandchildren. According to Schopenhauer, 
such persons never die, for their flesh and blood survive in their 
descendants. 

Being still a bachelor we may incur the reproach that we 
speak of marriage as the blind man speaks of color, and par- 
ticularly by seeming blind to the evils that may be present in the 
married state. We cannot deny the fact that some people are 
most unhappy ; but it is our firm belief that all the ills that befall 
us on this earth are due to ourselves. If we select our nuptial 
mate with care and sound judgment, paying more attention to 
the internal rather than the external qualities, treating her with 
the utmost consideration of character, first studying and then 
adapting ourselves to them, we shall not find sharp edges but 
smooth sides, and we shall never come into collision with them. 
Everywhere and anywhere, everyone is the author of his own 
luck. 



1 Tsen-ki-tong: "China und die Chinesen," German translation from the 
Chinese, Leipzig, 1875. 



CHAPTER LI. 

HYGIENE OF THE MIND EMOTIONS AND WORRY AS CAUSES OF 

OLD AGE. 

WHEN the famous surgeon Vesalius was dissecting a 
woman, he discovered that her heart was still feebly beating. 
He was so overcome by mental distress at his discovery that 
he suddenly dropped dead. Other instances, also showing that 
strong emotions of the mind are able to kill people, are known, 
and history also tells us of the case of Louis of Bourbon who 
dropped dead from fright at witnessing the exhumation of his 
father's bones. Not only can severe emotions caused by fear 
or grief, but pleasing ones, when they exceed a certain limit, 
are also able to produce instantaneous death. Thus it is said 
that when Leibnitz's niece found a large amount of gold under 
the bed of the famous philosopher, after his death, she had such 
a powerful emotion of joy that she fell dead. The same sudden 
end was the fate of Sophocles when he heard that one of his 
tragedies had been awarded the highest prize. 

Death is happily rather rare under such circumstances; but 
diseases of a serious kind, especially diabetes, can be caused 
frequently from strong mental emotions of a depressing nature. 
We have published two cases of young women who suddenly 
contracted severe diabetes after a fright, while previously there 
had been no symptoms of such; and in a third case glycosuria 
was increased very considerably. This last case was one of mild 
diabetes ; the sugar increased to a very great extent the day fol- 
lowing the intelligence that he had lost half his fortune through 
a coal mine accident. Professor Naunyn, in his book on dia- 
betes, after quoting our own observations, also states the inter- 
esting fact that after the bombardment of Strassburg in the 
(404) 



Emotions and Worry as Causes of Old Age. 405 

v< 

war of 1870, many cases of diabetes developed in consequence 
of the fear and anxiety brought about by it. 

Strong emotions of the mind thus tend to shorten existence 
by their fatal action on several of the most important organs, 
such as the heart, and in particular the ductless glands: the ad- 
renals, thyroid, pituitary, pancreas, liver, kidneys, and the sexual 
glands. These are governed by the sympathetic and vagus, and 
mental emotions, by acting on these nerves, produce alterations 
in these important glands. 

By acting on the adrenals mental emotions produce higher 
blood-pressure, in consequence of the toxic action of the increased 
adrenal secretion, and thus favor the development of diseases of 
the heart and circulatory system, especially arteriosclerosis, which 
so very frequently shortens life (see also Chapter XVI). 

That mental emotions act upon the thyroid is shown by 
the alteration of this gland in consequence, which can sometimes 
go so far that often Graves's disease (hyperthyroidia) has been 
observed, at times shortly, and at other times suddenly, after the 
mental shock. The hyperactivity of the thyroid may eventually 
be followed by its exhaustion; and so it happens that as one of 
the causes of myxcedema mental depression is often mentioned. 

That alterations of the pituitary body after mental emotions 
can take place, is shown conclusively by the fact that competent 
authorities, like Professor Pel and many others, have published 
cases of acromegaly after such a cause. We personally observed 
a case in which grief from incarceration caused the disease to 
which also diabetes was added. Sajous has long urged that the 
pituitary is the sensorium commune, i.e., the central organ upon 
which all severe emotions react. 

It is indeed tragical that diabetes mellitus so frequently 
attacks those who suffer reverses in their life. Unlike death 
in the cases above mentioned, it is only brought about in those 
who have had mental emotion in consequence of disappointment, 
loss of fortune, and, in some cases, a wife's infidelity, etc. Thus, 
not satisfied with bringing misfortunes. Fate' adds disease, so 



406 Old Age Deferred. 



that their lives are threatened with being shortened. We shall 
insist, later on, that this disease, as most diseases generally, 
only develops in consequence of our own fault or the fault of our 
forefathers. 

The alterations of the pancreas in consequence of mental 
emotions can be best demonstrated by the frequency of diabetes 
after such a cause, as just referred to above. Pawlow observed 
a checking of the pancreatic juice after such an agency. 

The action of mental emotions on the sexual glands is 
shown by the sudden appearance of menstruation. We have 
recently heard of a young lady who attempted suicide because of 
disappointment in love; she threw herself into a river, which 
fortunately was not deep at the moment, and this act caused the 
sudden return of her menstrual period. 

Cases of sudden menstruation after various kinds of mental 
emotion have often been observed ; and in men under similar cir- 
cumstances impotency is not infrequently noted, though, in most 
cases, it is only temporary. 

The alterations of the liver are shown by jaundice, and of 
the kidneys by an increased flow of urine in consequence of men- 
tal emotions. According to Clifford Allbutt, 1 strong, mental 
emotions play an important part in the origin in many cases of 
interstitial nephritis. 

It is a well-known fact that persons, after strong mental 
emotion of a distressing kind, have suddenly turned gray, as 
is related of Marie Antoinette, Queen of France; and we our- 
selves have seen a similar case in a young lady, one of our rela- 
tives, who in one night had her jet-black hair turned white. 

That care, worry, grief, and sorrow are able to bleach the 
hair, although not so suddenly as above, is generally known; 
and not only gray hair, but a haggard, worn appearance, and 
all the other attributes of old age, with changes in the arteries, as 
is so often the case in old age, have over and over again been 
attributed to the above causes. It is a well-known fact that 



1 Quoted after James Tyson. LOG. cit. 



Emotions and Worry as Causes of Old Age. 407 

premature old age is probably brought about more frequently 
by the above agencies than by any of the other contributory 
causes. 

Not only premature old age, but also premature death, can 
be caused by such agencies ; for there is no longer any doubt that, 
in persons with mental depression, resistance against infections 
and intoxications is reduced, and that such persons are thus at the 
mercy of the microbes, which are to be found in billions every- 
where. On the other hand, we can often observe that a merry 
disposition may cause long-lasting youth and a very long life. 
The celebrated English painter, Mr. Frithe, who died quite 
recently at the age of 92, when asked the reasons for his vigor 
and robustness used to answer: "No worries, and six cigars a 
day." Having seen on the island of Capri an old boatswain of 
80 years vigorously handling his oars, we inquired of him the 
reasons for his robustness and received as his answer : "Sempre 
allegre" (always merry). This "sempre allegre" should also be 
our own motto for life, because of its efficacy in warding off old 
age. 

There are some admirable teachings in the Upanishads and 
Vedanta of the Hindoos : never to seek for riches and fame, and 
to give up ambition. Indeed this, more than anything else, would 
assure a perfect tranquillity of the mind, as exemplified by the 
image of Buddha ; but for the future of mankind and the progress 
of scientific research, a certain amount of ambition is necessary. 
We think the noblest aim is to do good for its own sake, and 
not for the sake of honors ; but if honors are obtained, to accept 
them calmly, going on in the usual way; for otherwise it hap- 
pens, as we so often witness, that too much ambition, with its 
wear and tear, exposes us to premature disease by arterioscle- 
rosis, the most prevalent disease among men who have reached 
fame, especially among statesmen, whose honors are, indeed, 
dearly paid for. 

It would lead us too far to enter into particulars as to how 
the various organs, even the stomach, can possibly, even in a 



408 Old Age Deferred. 



powerful way, influence the conditions of the mind ; but we must 
make an exception in the case of the ductless glands. If the 
mind influences these, on the other hand they exercise a mar- 
velous action on the mind, as already stated. 

Degenerated conditions of the thyroid are always followed 
by weakening of the mental powers, and they are also able to alter 
the normal conditions of the mind. As a rule, as we so often see, 
persons having such are low spirited and possess no will-power 
or energy. The loss of will-power through extirpation of the 
thyroid or by its degeneration has been already mentioned in 
Chapter IV. 

People with a weak thyroid, and especially if to this be 
added a degenerated state of the testicles, or of the ovaries are 
usually melancholy and despondent. They have exceedingly 
often what the French call "idees noires" they are always full of 
"dark ideas." In everything they undertake they always foresee 
a bad issue; and it is not singular that this bad issue very often 
really comes about, for it is caused with mathematical certainty 
by their own incapability, absentmindedness, and entire want of 
foresight. This is another illustration of our theory that most 
of our want of success and our mishaps, if not all of them, we 
bring upon ourselves by our own faults. We often notice that 
such people lack the most elementary rules of foresight, precau- 
tion and circumspection. They are horribly absentminded, a 
fact we have noted especially in old spinsters, who may pass their 
best friends a dozen times on the street without recognizing them. 
Such persons may also easily fall victims to accidents, as being 
run over by a carriage, etc. 

The fact that these "dark ideas" are frequent in people 
with a degenerated thyroid has also been observed by Dr. Leo- 
pold Levi, of Paris, and Dr. Baron Henry de Rothschild, who, 
in their Annals on Children's Diseases, published by Dr. de 
Rothschild's Hospital for Sick Children, give a detailed de- 
scription of the alterations in the mind in cases of thyroid degen- 
eration. That these dark ideas must be ascribed to degeneration 



Emotions and Worry as Causes of Old Age. 409 

of the thyroid and of the sexual glands, besides the proof from the 
observations mentioned in Chapter IV, is best shown by the 
fact that, as we have seen in many cases, they may be much 
improved and, not infrequently, may disappear through the use 
of thyroid, testicular, and ovarian extracts. Courage, as was 
shown in the same chapter, is a quality of the mind which is 
entirely dependent upon the intact condition of the sexual glands ; 
it is lacking in castrates, and seldom seen in persons with 
degenerated sexual glands. 

These persons are like a reed in the wind, waving backward 
and forward without any energy; the least untoward event may 
beat them down. They are pained by circumstances and are 
always governed by them, whereas a person with a healthy thy- 
roid and healthy testicles, like the heroes sculptured by the Greek 
artists, who have fire and courage in their eyes, faces all circum- 
stances. Such as these control all circumstances, sometimes even 
fate, and it is not fate that governs them. Sometimes we feel 
inclined to think that there is no such thing as fate, at least for 
such men. They mould their own destiny themselves, and always 
succeed in pushing on with their iron will. 

Will-power is, as repeatedly mentioned, essentially a product 
of thyroid, and also probably of intact testicular or ovarian, 
activity. It is always wanting in persons who have been cas- 
trated, and is very often absent in those leading a life of sexual 
debauchery. 

According to the above, persons with weak thyroids or weak 
and degenerated sexual glands are bound to fail in their under- 
takings, and are thus more exposed to disappointments of all 
kinds, reverses of fortune, etc.; therefore, such people are the 
most frequent subjects of mental depression. 

Taking into consideration what has been said above, we 
conclude that the source of disappointment lies, in many cases, 
if not in most, in our own fault, because of loss of foresight or 
some slight omission, which, indeed, is so often apt to overthrow 
all our most beautiful plans. Often it is due to errors of judg- 



410 Old 'Age Deferred. 



ment, and frequently also to want of perseverance, the conse- 
quence of defective will-power. 

We have already shown in Chapter IV, and above, that 
degeneration of the thyroid and of the sexual glands is always 
followed by similar alterations of the mind. 

If we want rationally to prevent mental depression we must 
first remove its cause. In many cases it is caused by alterations 
of mental activity subsequent to changes in different ductless 
glands, and also in other organs that influence the condition of 
the mind. Logically, we must improve the functions of these 
glands if we want to proceed rationally, and then our mental 
activity will improve, and failures like disappointments may, in 
all probability, be avoided. We can effect this by means of 
extracts of certain animal organs. 

It has been shown by the celebrated physiologist, Brown- 
Sequard, by experiments on himself, that testicular extracts 
were able to improve his mental vigor and enabled him to do 
a much greater amount of work. We have made similar ob- 
servations in several cases, especially when at the same time thy- 
roid extracts were used, but also without them. Thus we think 
that we do not go too far, on the basis of the observations of 
Brown-Sequard and other authorities, including our own, when 
we say that, through the improvement of our mental power by 
therapeutic measures, like organic extracts, we may be able to 
influence success to a favorable degree, and that everybody is, in- 
deed, as already quoted, "the smith of his own luck," as the 
German proverb says; and thus we can protect ourselves against 
failure, disappointment, and mental depression. We are thus 
justified in saying that a man with healthy ductless glands in 
perfect working condition, and thus of perfect mental power, is 
the man who can face any emergency and, to a certain extent, 
direct fate at his own pleasure. Such a man can get practically 
everything he wants, and Napoleon probably was made of such 
stuff. For such men there are no obstacles in the world. 



2 Brown-SSquard : Loo. oit. 



Emotions and Worry as Causes of Old Age. 411 

It is of great importance that not only the glands with 
internal secretion, but also all the other organs of the body, 
should be kept in hygienic condition, carrying out the rules laid 
down in other parts of this book. 

It has been shown by noted historians that great men, such 
as Napoleon, had to blame their downfall indirectly to faulty 
hygiene for instance, of the digestive organs. That the con- 
dition of the stomach this too often ill-used organ influences 
the mind in a powerful way, is borne out by many interesting 
examples. 

There can be no doubt, however, that there are causes of 
ill-luck which we cannot avoid, as, for instance, loss of near 
relatives by death, such as parents or children, or disappointment 
in nuptial affection or love although here, to a great extent, 
omissions, lack of sound judgment, and last, but not least, lack 
of perseverance can be imputed. 

If then, in spite of all our precaution, an accident or death 
of a dear relative occurs, we must use every endeavor to control 
our grief and sorrow. Fortunately the human frame is so won- 
derfully built that there is self-defense not only against disease, 
but also against affections of the mind. Thus we have the gift 
of forgetfulness, and if this sometimes be a drawback, in most 
cases it is a divine blessing. We must endeavor to obliterate the 
remembrance of our disappointments. We must remember that 
mourning for a great number of years will not restore life for 
one minute to the dear departed, but that a day of it is sufficient 
to run down our own health and create deep furrows in our face. 
Happily, average man is so constituted that, as time goes on, 
he must naturally lose his sorrow ; time heals all grief, and here 
also will-power has its effects; and these who lack it, examples 
of whom we have referred to above, are easily subject to suicide. 

It would also be necessary to change such of our habits 
as are allied to superstition and prejudice. As in many things, 
the Chinese are more rational in their customs ; at their times of 
mourning every one is dressed in shining and 'beautiful white ; 



412 Old Age Deferred. 



they use a white coffin, which is much more pleasing to the sight, 
and certainly much more cheerful, than our depressing dark 
ones; and when the whole house and church are draped in black 
our depression, with its terrible consequences to our health and 
vitality, is so much the more increased. Thus the dead often 
shorten the lives of the living. 

Then, living in total seclusion, garbed in deep black, with 
long black veil, remaining away from all places where the mind 
can be cheered, not even allowed to attend a concert, how can 
a poor widow forget, especially if her will-power from causes 
mentioned, is diminished? Shall we then be greatly surprised 
if, as occurs occasionally, such a widow or widower commits 
suicide, to which such irrational prejudices are simply impelling 
them? 

And yet it will certainly not be impossible to ameliorate 
such a state. With a strong will-power systematically trained 
from childhood, we can accustom ourselves to drive out dis- 
agreeable thoughts of bereavement, fear, anxiety, etc. Realizing 
that what is irreparably lost can never be recovered, notwith- 
standing oceans of tears and the deepest sorrow, we must suc- 
ceed in understanding the uselessness of it and make up our 
mind to eradicate entirely from our recollections things that can 
never be altered. Not to worry about anything is the surest 
and most successful way to attain long life and a green old age, 
and by the exercise of some will-power and consistent training 
such a mental condition can be obtained. 

There are certain external agencies which can powerfully 
assist to bring about f orgetf ulness. Such are music, the arts, litera- 
ture, and above all scientific occupations. Where is there a grief 
that cannot be soothed by one of the beautiful symphonies of Bee- 
thoven, or by the works of Mozart, or by other classics : Haydn, 
Haendel, Bach, Schubert, Chopin, Wagner, Grieg; or by the 
paintings of Velasquez, Rembrandt or Van Dyck; or by the 
pictures of the beautiful women painted by the great English 
masters Gainsborough, Reynolds, Romney, and Lawrence; and 



Emotions and Worry as Causes of Old Age. 413 

which of the saddest faces will not turn to a smile when reading 
Mark Twain ? The pursuit of scientific research is also a mighty 
weapon, and we know a famous savant who passed the remainder 
of the day in his laboratory after he had accompanied the hearse 
of his wife to the cemetery. 

When we are deeply depressed over a severe loss if we pay a 
visit to a museum, where we can see the manifestations of life 
that existed hundreds or thousands of years ago, it may give 
us some comfort. Considering the bodies in the British Museum 
of Egyptian kings and queens, etc., that lived thousands of years 
ago, together with the jewels that they were wearing, and all the 
other signs of splendor that existed so many ages before, we ask : 
in the face of these thousands of years what are those few years 
of worry on earth ? As Schopenhauer said : "The world existed 
50,000 years ago, and will last 50,000 years more, and what are 
the few years of our life in face of these thousands?" and we 
would like to say "in face of these millions" of years, as the 
scientific history of mankind attests. 

A trip to the country, mountains, forests, or seaside, being 
out in the flower-covered fields and sunshine, and especially 
foreign travel, thereby changing all our surroundings and habits, 
should soon be able to soothe our sorrows. In early childhood a 
love for the fine arts, music, painting and literature should be 
developed, as these form a valuable support for the mind in later 
years. A knowledge of Latin and Greek, which are soon for- 
gotten, should not be the aim of the school education, but rather 
the refinement of character in the child. 

The most valuable aid in the treatment of mental depres- 
sion is religion, for this gives what nothing else can give in equal 
degree Hope ! Hope, without which we should always exist in 
continual gloom ! We will point out, in a few words in the next 
chapter, the advantages of religious belief. 



CHAPTER LII. 

HYGIENE OF THE MIND RELIGIOUS BELIEF AS A MEANS OF 
PROLONGING LIFE. 

A RELIGIOUS lady of the Dutch aristocracy, whom we have 
known for years, lost within a short time both her grown-up 
son and her husband, to whom she was most devotedly attached. 
Imagining* that she must have been completely crushed, we 
inquired of a member of the family how she had sustained these 
terrible losses. The answer was that she was perfectly calm and 
that she was the most composed member of the whole family. 

We know from personal observation that this lady was truly 
religious ; and we are, therefore, inclined to believe that only her 
great sense of religion enabled her to withstand so well these 
terrible shocks. Her case is a typical one, showing that persons 
of a truly religious belief are better able to withstand depressing 
impressions. They will not give way to despair so readily as 
most irreligious people, and it is exceedingly rare to find a case 
of suicide among such. 

Not only will truly religious people avoid suicide and mental 
depression, with all their fatal consequences, as we have shown 
in the preceding chapters, but they will also, as a rule, withstand 
diseases better than others. As we have noted, truly religious 
people, when seriously ill, have such a strong faith and hope in 
their recovery they invariably are convinced that God will help 
them that this has proved to us a most invaluable aid in their 
medical treatment. The importance of this fact is also confirmed 
by our friend, Dr. Eberson, one of the busiest practitioners in 
Amsterdam, who remarked to us that the outlook for recovery 
was always more favorable in such cases. As Prof. Charles Beck, 
of New York, told us, he often remarked that his religious 
(414) 



Religious Belief as a Means of Prolonging Life. 415 

patients could stand narcosis better: they showed less anxiety, 
and thus the heart action became less excited. Thus religion can 
undoubtedly tend to prolong life; and in this we are not saying 
anything novel, for it is well known that the mind has a wonder- 
ful influence over the body. Religion acts on the mind, and the 
mind powerfully governs the body. 

This is made use of by certain religious sects in what are 
known as "faith cures ;" and that in certain cases, and especially 
in nervous diseases, such as hysteria or neurasthenia, these cures 
may be of service, cannot be denied on the ground of the above 
observations. 

The influence of the mind over the body was recognized 
hundreds of years ago by all great physicians. The great phi- 
losopher, Kant, 1 insisted upon it in a special article, and Char- 
cot has effected some wonderful cures by such means in hys- 
teria, as have hundreds of other physicians. We all agree, for 
we see it every day, that the mind governs the body; but there 
are also certain agencies that govern the mind, and religion is 
one of the most important of these. 

Therefore, happy are they who are truly religious, for their 
days may be longer, and they are better prepared to meet the 
vicissitudes of life! 

There are many scientific people who do not believe in a 
Superior Being because His presence cannot be scientifically 
proved. But there are many things that are quite inexplicable, 
but which none the less do exist, and in which we do believe. 
Are there not many such things, even in medicine, which are most 
mysterious, but nevertheless true? If we consider the human 
body we find that to the smallest details, to the minutest of the 
millions and millions of cells of which it is composed, it is built 
up in a most marvelous way. It is admirable with what in- 
genuity and forethought the smallest particles are put together 
to suit one another. There may be an artistic genius who can 
erect one wonderful construction, as a masterpiece of art; but 

i Journal der pract. Arzneikunde, vol. v, 1788. 



416 Old Age Deferred. 



in the human body the microscope will reveal thousands and 
thousands of such masterpieces, perfect in the smallest details, 
which no artist could be capable of putting together and of 
making them work admirably in unison. 

And the physician must be an artist, too, to discover which 
of the wheels in this most wonderful machinery are not doing 
their duty; and if it took but a second to conceive a human 
body, it takes a whole lifetime to study all the recesses and 
angles of this masterpiece of mechanism. 

The admirable forethought with which the different parts 
are formed in man or animal, must give us the idea that it must 
be the sequence of a cause, as indeed there is in this world no 
effect without a cause; and this cause must be the action of a 
Superior Power. 

To give one of the numberless examples for the truth of 
this, we should like to quote the ingenious mechanism affecting 
the eyes of certain young animals, such as dogs. As is well 
known, puppies cannot see for a few days after birth, but are 
prevented from so doing by a delicate mucous membrane that 
covers their eyes. And yet there is a cause for this, which cause 
is the result of a most tender circumspection; for these little 
animals are provided with this membrane so that strong light, like 
sunshine, shall not irritate the eye until certain modifications have 
taken place in the inner eye, which allow these parts to stand such 
a light ; and as this requires a few days, the membrane in ques- 
tion closes the eye during that time. It seems as if Almighty 
Nature stands with her hands over the eyes of these puppies to 
protect them from being harmed by the light. 

Maternal love is a necessity in all animals to save the race 
from extinction. There are a few exceptions in which animals 
occasionally kill their young for certain reasons ; but this is con- 
fined to a few of them such as cats and dogs, and only happens the 
first or second days after labor, being due probably to mental 
alterations induced by the processes of birth ; it may happen also 
in man. It is truly marvelous how insects provide for their 



Religious Belief as a Means of Prolonging Life. 417 

descendants, which they will never see, for they themselves die 
prior to their development. An interesting example has been 
lately quoted by a naturalist. The wasp, before dying, thinks of 
a most ingenious way for providing food for her larvae. This is 
in the form of a worm; but as this worm would putrefy before 
the development of the larvae, the wasp does not kill the worm 
but merely stings it in the spinal cord. This does not kill the 
worm, but simply paralyzes it, and thus the worm will live on till 
the larvae are developed, when there they will find their food 
ready prepared for them by their far-seeing mother. Who is the 
cause of such foresightedness being given to these insects? 

There are certain people who cannot believe in a Supreme 
Being, because injustice, mishaps, and accidents happen daily. 
But there are natural laws which must pursue their course. 
When a child falls out of a top floor window and is killed on the 
pavement below, the law of gravity is acting; but the accident 
may be due also to a want of foresight on the parents' part. 
If disease overtakes us it is also frequently, if not always, due to 
our own fault, or that of our forefathers. On the other hand, 
we see the wonderful work of Nature ; for, as already shown in 
Chapter III, our body is wonderfully provided with every means 
of defense against disease; and like a careful mother, Nature 
warns us first, for hardly ever do we get ill without there being 
some premonitory symptoms. Thus, before chronic kidney af- 
fections come on, we eliminate for some months, and sometimes 
longer, casts ; and before diabetes comes on traces of sugar, as a 
rule, appear in the urine for a certain time; and then is the 
time for us to follow a diet in order to avoid these diseases. In- 
fectious diseases also give warning symptoms before they de- 
velop, and these, as well as others, may sometimes be prevented 
by a timely defense and certain hygienic measures on our part. 
Even against poisonous animals we are protected in a wonderful 
way. Thus, before the rattlesnake bites he utters a warning by 
his rattles, and before the mosquito gives us malaria through its 
sting a premonitory hum falls on our ear. Unfortunately we 

27 



418 Old Age Deferred. 



have not sufficient space to give further examples of the admir- 
able way in which a Superior Power is doing His best to protect 
us, and if mishaps do very often occur, very frequently, if not 
always, as already mentioned, it may be traced to certain of 
our own actions. 



CHAPTER LIII. 
DISEASE CONSIDERED AS A SELF-DEFENCE OF NATURE. 

MANY a man bemoans his fate when bed-ridden and tor- 
tured by pain, and yet we cannot fail to recognize, upon further 
consideration, that such suffering often serves but to pave the 
way for recovery. Very frequently the advent of slight pain is 
the earliest indication that something in our organism is amiss, 
and promptly leads us to think of measures for the prevention of 
further trouble. A sickness can often be controlled at the outset 
upon using proper measures, and thus entirely averted. Severe 
pains not infrequently mean the saving of life, since they compel 
indolent or careless persons to seek the physician's help while 
there is still time. How few persons, indeed, would consult the 
doctors and discontinue excessive eating, were they not forced to 
do so by their aches and pains. 

Not a few diseases are to be classed as serious and dangerous 
to life owing to the fact that, of themselves, they do not give rise 
to discomfort, and lull their victims into a false sense of security. 
Many a diabetic would live longer, were he reminded by torment- 
ing pains of the necessity of careful treatment and restriction in 
his diet. Thus even pain is of service to mankind. 

Other annoying symptoms of disease must also be regarded 
as expressions of nature's efforts towards self-cure. When a 
person makes use of an article of food that has undergone deteri- 
oration, nature often endeavors to remove it by an evacuation 
of the intestinal canal. Again, no harm is done when a glutton 
at length upsets his stomach, loses his appetite, and allows the 
ill-used organ to rest. And he is being let off cheaply, if his over- 
burdened stomach procures its own relief by vomiting. When a 
person has an attack of gout and sweats profusely, noxious 

(419) 



420 Old Age Deferred. 



substances are likewise eliminated thereby. When the illness is 
over, however, one feels not infrequently all the more fresh and 
rested after convalescence, whence the ancient Greeks not incor- 
rectly said: "To iraQbs Idrpos <W 

Indeed that sickness is oftentimes directly beneficial in its 
effects is a matter of frequent observation. If, for example, a 
markedly obese person becomes diabetic in such cases the 
disease appears in a mild form, as a rule, his chances of long 
life are thereby not infrequently improved. I observed this in the 
case of an American lady who weighed 162 kilogrammes (357 
pounds). The mild form of diabetes which this lady developed 
was certainly not to her detriment, for whilst she could lose 
weight as a result and live for a long period, her situation would 
have been far different had the obesity progressed still further. 

We have already endeavored to show that fever is in reality 
an expression of efforts of the body at self-healing, as we like- 
wise maintained with reference to skin affections. So, too, the 
syphilitic patient who exhibits diffuse skin-eruptions, as well as 
other localized manifestations in the peripheral tissues, has a 
better outlook with respect to the dreadful nervous consequences 
of this disease than one who never exhibits the outer signs of the 
infection. 

We perceive, therefore, that that which we call disease is 
nought else but nature's attempt to attain health a kind of 
defensive reaction against harmful substances. The disease 
proper has often already been present for some time; it already 
exists at the very instant in which the invading foe makes its 
entrance into the body. Between this time and the moment when 
the reaction of the body, that is, what we are in the habit of 
calling the disease, appears, a considerable period may fre- 
quently elapse; oftentimes it may even extend through several 
years, as in leprosy or in the sleeping sickness. It would thus be 
entirely rational to interfere at a time when the enemy has not 
yet penetrated into the body. Unfortunately the signs which 
might acquaint us with its presence have not at that time found 



Disease as a Self-defence. 421 

distinctive expression. Vague symptoms such as mild headache, 
want of appetite, lassitude, low spirits, etc., may alone exist, and 
yet it is necessary that even these should be watched for. Already 
in this period it would be advisable to seek the physician's aid, and 
if many be deterred therefrom because of the expense involved, it 
should be recalled that oftentimes fifty visits cannot procure the 
result which might have been obtained by a few preventive 
measures. Thus the very mildest symptoms of illness are not 
to be disregarded, a fact with which children in particular must 
be impressed. Older persons and teachers should likewise be 
made familiar with this precept. What a multitude of human 
lives could be saved in this way! 

But in order to recognize the slightest indications of an 
approaching illness, deviations from the normal state of health 
would have to be closely studied. The science which apprises 
us of the functions of normal organs would have to be given 
more extensive recognition, and physiology would have to become 
the basis of the physician's every thought and method of treat- 
ment. The system prevailing among the Chinese, who in many 
ways surpass us in logic, and who pay the doctor only so long as 
they are in health, is thus not so unreasonable. The best plan 
of all would be for each family to have its own house-physician, 
whom it could consult regularly, especially if there be children; 
for such a person alone is capable of recognizing the earliest 
deviations from the normal. The prevention of disease would 
have to constitute the basis of all our therapeutic endeavors. 

In order to become of real assistance to Nature, however, 
the physician must be continually following in the wake of her 
efforts to secure health. If the defensive reaction brought about 
by Nature against toxic materials is too feeble, he must assist 
her by proper remedies. Thus when the use of spoiled food is 
followed by diarrhoea, he must not arrest the latter ; otherwise he 
would, indeed, be locking the wolf in with the sheep. On the 
contrary, he must imitate Nature and accordingly administer a 
purgative. Again, if on taking cold or during a gouty attack a 



422 Old Age Deferred. 



person falls into a profuse sweat, it would certainly be illogical 
to administer a remedy to counteract this beneficent influence; 
another means of producing perspiration should rather be availed 
of, as, for example, the salicylates. If, on the other hand, the 
reaction is too strongly marked, as, for instance, in a young girl 
with very active thyroid gland, who in consequence of typhoid 
exhibits a dangerous rise of temperature or hyperpyrexia, then 
the physician must put on the brakes and save her life by appro- 
priate antipyretic measures. 

In view of the above deductions, it is not unjustifiable to 
believe that the symptoms of disease, i.e., what we designate as 
disease, together with many other supposed ills, in reality con- 
tribute toward the preservation of mankind. 



CHAPTER LIV. 
HYGIENE OF THE MIND ADVICE TO BRAIN WORKERS. 

SCHOLARS, who live entirely from the product of their mental 
labors, often do not present a healthy appearance, and are not 
infrequently subject to nervous, gastric or intestinal disorders, 
chronic constipation, etc. In laborious mental activity an exces- 
sive amount of blood flows to the brain, that of other organs 
being withdrawn, and thus diminished formation of gastric juice 
is favored and the appetite reduced. Intellectual activity should, 
if possible, be suspended a full hour before and after meals. 
Congestion of the brain likewise interferes with proper sleep, 
which, as a rule, can only become truly deep when the brain is 
bloodless. Intellectual efforts should therefore be avoided for a 
period of one to two hours before going to bed, and especially 
one should not read in bed. 

After a good night's sleep the brain is adequately rested and 
hence capable of doing the most work. For this reason the 
morning hours are the best of all for mental labor ; the very early 
hours have the additional advantage of absolute quiet and 
freedom from disturbance. Personally I work preferably from 
5 to 8 o'clock in the morning, especially in the winter time when 
one cannot well go out walking so early. 

In a previous chapter I mentioned the fact that organs upon 
which great demands are made more readily become the seat of 
arteriosclerosis because of the abundant flow of blood to them. In 
persons of great intellectual activity we accordingly find marked 
sclerosis of the cerebral arteries, especially if they have the 
bad habit of smoking and drinking excessively. Besides, drinking 
interferes with the quality of work done. The influence of smok- 
ing in the production of arteriosclerosis we have already dis- 

(423) 



424 Old Age Deferred. 



cussed. Under normal conditions intellectual workers can live 
to an advanced age this we know from numerous celebrated 
instances: Hippocrates, Democritus, Plato, Plutarch, Leibnitz, 
Newton, Galileo, Michael Angelo, Carlyle, etc. Socrates wrote 
his Panathenae in his 94th year, the celebrated Dr. Hufeland the 
fifth edition of his "Makrobiotik" at a ripe old age, while Goethe's 
powers of execution remained to the last undiminished. Recently 
I received from an English colleague 80 years of age, who had 
attained eminence by his studies on metabolism, an excellent work 
on diabetes, which he had just brought out. 

With but very few exceptions, we find that the great master- 
intellects who attained to an advanced age led lives of modera- 
tion in every respect not only as to their bodies, but also their 
minds. Whoever lives as hygienically as did Newton, can, like 
him, become very old in spite of bodily weakness. Newton was 
a very frugal eater, had no passions and never worked until 
over-fatigued. Not to work to excess, to permit one's self to rest 
at the proper time this is the chief precept in the hygiene of 
the mind. The brain requires rest even more than any other 
organ from which great activity is demanded. One should not 
work more than a few hours at a stretch. 

I strongly recommend going to bed at ten or eleven o'clock, 
rising at five to half-past six o'clock, and then after refreshing 
one's self, at once settling down to work. Breakfast may be 
eaten at about eight o'clock. A walk should then be taken before 
going back to work, which should be interrupted an hour before 
dinner-time and only resumed an hour after the meal. In the 
warmer seasons it is best to work in the garden or in the woods 
whenever the nature of the work permits. It is advisable to leave 
off one hour before supper, and then, as a general rule, do nothing 
further, but take a walk, if possible also before supper. In 
general, mental workers need plenty of exercise in the open air; 
especially in the woods or elsewhere in the midst of foliage is the 
flow of ideas more easily aroused. When it is not too hot, one 
may sit out in the si", while working, though the eyes and the 



Advice to Brain Workers. 425 

book or paper should be shaded. The combination of pure air, 
sunshine, and mental occupation is of great value. Laboratories 
and libraries should be so disposed as to correspond strictly to all 
rules of hygiene regarding air and light. 

In winter time one gains distraction by visiting friends, 
attending society meetings, concerts, theatres, etc. In every 
season of the year it would be well to spend Sundays in the 
country. It is necessary, likewise, to follow the general rules of 
hygiene. Insofar as the diet is concerned it is strongly to be 
recommended during heavy mental labor, especially where much 
thinking is required, that meat-eating be given up and a vegeta- 
rian diet, with the addition of milk products and eggs, adopted. 
At any rate, a diet rich in meats must be avoided; it not only 
makes one heavy and dull, but also creates a want for alcohol, 
coffee, tobacco and other unwholesome stimulants, for which a 
diet containing little or no meat need evoke no desire. 

Regularity and moderation heighten the expectations of long 
life in mental workers and guard against the premature failure 
of the intellectual powers which must sooner or later follow upon 
overwork. This not infrequently happens quite early in life. 
Boerhave could already cite two such cases; "I have known a 
young man who knew everything and was a prodigy of learning, 
but who hardly lived to the age of 25, and another who worked 
day and night with the industry of a bee, and without any 
definite illness died in his nineteenth year in a state of emacia- 
tion." In common with scholars and men of letters physicians 
must take particular care of themselves, their brains being con- 
tinually on a stretch. The efforts they make to prolong the lives 
of others shorten their own the irony of fate! Few callings 
demand as much mental work as that of the medical man. We 
physicians often have to deal with infectious diseases; since the 
continued mental strain is capable of injuring our bodily health 
and hence diminishing our resisting power against infections, it 
is advisable for us as far as possible to avoid all harmful influ- 
ences, and especially excess of any kind. 



CHAPTER LV. 

ON THE PREVENTION OF PREMATURE OLD AGE, AND THE TREAT- 
MENT OF OLD AGE, THROUGH CERTAIN DRUGS: 
ARSENIC, IRON, AND IODIDES. 

IT can often be observed that people who habitually take 
arsenic, either for medicinal or other purposes, look better and 
younger; and we have, ourselves, noted in some of them a dis- 
appearance of wrinkles. Wrinkles are caused by the loss of the 
fatty tissue from under the skin, and as arsenic causes an increase 
of fat in the tissues it may improve such a condition. 

As is well known in some parts of Europe, notably in 
Styria, the habit of eating arsenic is very prevalent among the 
peasants; and it is strange to note that most of these people live 
to a great age, and at the same time are extremely immune 
to all kinds of bodily fatigue for instance, they can climb 
the highest peaks in their native mountainous country without 
great exertion. They take arsenic because it enables them to 
undertake harder work, such as climbing, with greater ease, and 
also improves their appearance. 

We have known several ladies, famous actresses among 
them, who have indulged in this habit from vanity. A very 
interesting case was tried, about ten years ago, before an Aus- 
trian court of justice, in which a servant girl tried to poison her 
mistress by arsenic in small quantities. To the dismay of the 
servant, however, the lady continued to become more beautiful; 
so the murderess determined to give a larger dose, which in- 
duced grave symptoms of intoxication, and caused the discov- 
ery of the plot. 

It is equally well known that animals obtain a glossy and 
sleek coat through the administration of arsenic in small quan- 
tities. 

(426) 



Prevention of Premature Old Age Through Drugs. 427 

There can be no doubt that when arsenic is taken in small 
quantities it may prove of therapeutic value against old age; 
but as very aged people are often antagonistic to its use, it would 
seem to offer better results if used as a preventive against 
premature old age rather than as a cure after old age had much 
advanced. 

As arsenic can give good results, especially in combination 
with iron, in ansemia, and also in neurasthenia and hysteria, we 
think that its use would be particularly beneficial in women ne'ar 
the forties, and especially during the years before and after the 
climacteric until about the sixtieth year. According to Grawitz, 
arsenic acts better than iron in the ansemia of the aged. 

Arsenical treatment has given us excellent results also in 
nervous troubles of women at a much earlier age. It has often 
produced an increase in the weight and an improvement in the 
personal appearance of our patients. 

As, according to Gauthier 1 and Bertrand, the thyroid gland 
contains arsenic, we are thus administering an important ele- 
ment of this gland. The observation of Dr. Sajous 2 is of great 
importance, that arsenic dilates the arterioles. Indeed, we have 
also made similar observations; thus we found after the use of 
arsenic in several cases a higher vascular pressure and irregulari- 
ties of the pulse similar to those occurring after tobacco smoking, 
which, as shown before, has also a stimulating action upon the 
adrenals. In a few cases there was also pigmentation of the 
skin. By using arsenic while taking thyroid extracts we stimu- 
late the antagonists of the thyroid, the adrenals; and thus the 
symptoms of hyperthyroidia can be avoided by simultaneously 
giving arsenic in small doses. As we shall, in the next chapter, 
recommend the use of thyroid extracts in the prevention of 
premature old age, and in the treatment of old age, this simul- 
taneous use of arsenic can increase the benefit of such treat- 
ment; but for the purpose in question arsenic should be given 



l Revue de Medecine Bulletin Academic de Medecine, vol. xliii, p. 116, 1900 
2 Sajous: "Internal Secretions," vol. ii, p. 1312, 1907. 



428 Old Age Deferred. 



in the smallest possible doses, as Fowler's solution, beginning 
with 3 drops and increasing to not more than 5 or 6 drops per 
day, by slow and gradual degrees, and then decreasing slowly 
again, but not for longer than for three or four weeks altogether. 
In women something more could be given. Far better than 
Fowler's solution would be the various mineral waters that con- 
tain the most useful form of arsenic, as such waters usually con- 
tain also iron, which still further increases their value. Such 
mineral waters can be found in various countries, viz. : in Aus- 
tria, in the Tyrol: Levico, very rich in arsenic and iron, and 
Roncegno, rich in arsenic; in Bosnia: Guberquelle, very rich in 
iron; in Switzerland: Val Sinistra; in France: Royat, Bour- 
boule, etc. They are absolutely innocuous if taken under medical 
care. We must begin by taking one tablespoonful of these 
arsenical waters, and gradually increase to five or six tablespoon- 
fuls a day, when we must then again gradually diminish the 
amount. 

By taking such waters, increasing slowly and gradually 
and then decreasing in a similar way, the most efficacious arsenic 
and iron treatment can be obtained, and a simultaneous thyroid 
treatment better endured. It is better to take such remedies 
after meals, and the patient must be kept under constant medical 
supervision, just as they are during iodine or thyroid treatment. 

We have often observed that women, especially in the 
forties or fifties, looked much younger after a treatment by iron 
preparations, particularly when in combination with iron and 
arsenic; mineral mud baths, containing much iron, have been 
used; and we are quite emphatic in asserting that such treat- 
ment, possibly more in women than in men, though in these we 
have not infrequently noted the same results, is able to improve 
the symptoms of old age; for we have had opportunities of 
observing this in many cases, sometimes even in women at the 
beginning of the sixties. 

The best results can be observed in women between 30 and 
60, even though they sometimes have no previous anaemia, who 



Prevention of Premature Old Age Through Drugs. 429 

look much healthier after such a combined iron, arsenic, mineral 
water, and mud-bath treatment. In men similar results have 
been noted; but in the case of women it must be regarded as a 
specific. 

In the same way as iodides act on the thyroid, we are in- 
clined to think that arsenic and iron are specifics to promote a 
better action of the sexual glands, especially the ovaries, and 
probably also of the adrenals. 

According to Professor von Noorden 3 and other authors, 
chlorosis is due to a degenerated condition of the ovaries. But 
the adrenals also may be altered, causing the great muscular weak- 
ness of chlorotic girls. Thus Dr. Sajous 4 has attributed chlo- 
rosis to adrenal degeneration. If, as observed for centuries, 
arsenic and iron are specifics in augmenting haemoglobin in the 
blood, it is a question whether this effect is obtained by the action 
of these preparations upon the ovaries, or upon the adrenals, as 
advocated by Dr. Sajous. 5 The probability is that they act upon 
both glands. Mud baths which are rich in iron are especially 
potent and successful against chlorosis and anaemic conditions, 
and at the same time against ailments of the ovaries and uterus, 
as is well known to gynaecologists. Iron seems also to exercise 
beneficent action on the male sexual glands. Impotency, as we 
have also seen, can often be improved by iron preparations, or 
by mineral waters containing iron and arsenic. Hysteria, as 
ancient physicians supposed it to be, and as we have tried to 
show, 6 is due, in great probability, very frequently to alterations 
in the female sexual organs, and iron treatment, especially arsenic 
and iron mineral waters, improves many cases. 

As well known to urologists, the general condition in cases 
of chronic posterior gonorrhoea, and in prostate troubles from 



3v. Noorden: "Die Bleichsucht" Nothnagel's "Handbuch der pract 
Medicin." 

4 Sajous : "Internal Secretions," vol. i, p. 87, Philadelphia, 1903. 

6 Loc. cit., p. 95. 

6 Congress of Belgian Neurologists, 1906. 



430 Old Age Deferred. 



such a cause, is often improved through iron treatment; as also 
is neurasthenia, even though some cases are not in etiological 
relation with such a cause. 

We must thus consider iron, especially when in combination 
with arsenic, as one means of improving the condition of the 
sexual organs judging from the foregoing reported clinical 
observations. The fact that iron of itself is no longer regarded 
as being useful in senility i.e., when the sexual glands are more 
or less degenerated points to the value of its combination with 
arsenic. We consider iron, especially in the form of the easily 
absorbed iron mineral waters, and in the form of the iron con- 
tained in mud baths, as a valuable means for the prevention 
of premature old age, and for the treatment of old age. Iron, 
and especially inorganic iron, is indicated as a preventive of old 
age for the reason that it stimulates to greater activity the blood 
forming organs, as has been shown by Harnack and von 
Noorden. It is a fact, upon which we have already insisted, that 
the organs which control the condition of the bone marrow, the 
seat of the blood forming mechanism i.e., the thyroid and the 
ovaries, are degenerated in old age. Iron acts upon the bone 
marrow through the intermediate agency of these glandular 
structures. 

It can be administered in the form of the perchloride or of 
other inorganic preparations. According to Bunge, organic iron 
preparations and iron contained in food have the advantage of 
being more readily absorbed and assimilated. (See chapter on 
the blood as an article of iron-containing food.) But Grawitz 
still prefers to prescribe inorganic iron, such as reduced iron or 
perchloride of iron. An old iron preparation of great efficacy is 
the Blaud pills. 

A very successful method of iron treatment is by mineral 
waters which are rich in iron in Austria, Franzersbad; in 
Germany, Langenswalbach. We prefer such waters as contain 
arsenic besides iron, as already mentioned. 

When mud baths are used simultaneously, it will be advis- 



Prevention of Premature Old Age Through Drugs. 

able not to take thyroid extracts also; but to await doing so till 
after the course of baths is finished. 

Increase of fat and of connective tissue are the most typical 
and anatomo-pathological changes in the tissues produced by 
old age. It is evident that drugs which can combat these 
changes are also able to treat and improve the condition of old 
age. There is no inorganic drug which can give such good 
results in these conditions, according to our present knowledge, 
as the iodides. It is generally believed that through the use of 
potassium iodide we are able to diminish fat in many cases. The 
increase of connective tissue in different organs, that takes place 
in the cirrhosis of these organs, has also been treated by iodides 
with success, according to some authorities, and, according to 
others, without any. At any rate, in arteriosclerosis there can be 
no doubt that iodides do give good results as they facilitate the 
circulation of the blood by diminishing its viscosity. According 
to Heinz, 7 iodides can combat connective tissue hypertrophy by 
rendering the vessel walls more permeable. They also increase 
the activity of the leucocytes. 

When WQ administer iodides we give in them the main ele- 
ment of the thyroid gland iodine, so that iodide treatment acts 
on these glands and increases their iodine contents. Iodine is a 
rational remedy for preventing old age, for the reason that, as 
Baumann and Jollin have found, the thyroid gland of aged 
persons contains but little iodine. We know, through the 
researches of Blum, Baumann, Kocher, Aeschbacher, etc., that 
by administering iodide we increase not only the iodine content 
of the thyroid, but also, as the experiments of Gamier show, its 
colloid substance. Iodides are best taken in the form of a 
saturated solution of sodium iodide, or other preparations con- 
taining this salt. They act best when taken in small quantities 
(not over 15 grains of the iodide a day), such amounts stimulat- 
ing thyroid activity ; larger doses, by overstimulating, may cause 
a subsequent exhaustion of the thyroid. 
1 Heinz: Virchow's Archiv, civ, p. 44. 



432 Old Age Deferred. 



That iodide treatment is able to increase thyroid activity 
is best shown by the fact that it may be followed by iodism, 
which presents most of the symptoms that follow large doses of 
thyroid extracts. It is very probable that many benefits obtained 
by iodide treatment can be explained through its action in 
increasing thyroid activity. 

Instead of using inorganic iodine, it would seem more log- 
ical to use organic iodine, as contained in the thyroid gland. We 
could thereby, to a certain extent, replace iodides successfully by 
thyroid extracts; the drawback, however, is that some thyroid 
preparations contain only a minimum quantity of iodine, while 
others contain more. It would, therefore, be advisable, when 
thyroid extracts are used, which contain only a very little iodine, 
to use in combination therewith, very small quantities of iodide of 
potassium ; say, one day one or two thyroid tablets, and the next 
day the iodide. It is best, when we are trying to treat the symp- 
toms of senility by combined iodide and thyroid preparations, to 
feel our way very cautiously, every third day examining the 
heart and pulse (see following chapter). 

Such treatment should be undertaken only when a thor- 
ough knowledge is possessed of the physiology and pathology 
of the thyroid gland. 

The fact that iodides improve the circulation of the blood 
makes them, in old age, especially useful, as arteriosclerosis is 
then very frequent and the iodides become of special value. 
Similar remedies are also indicated in all conditions arising from 
tertiary syphilis, which is very often a cause of premature 
senility. For all the reasons given above we think that iodide 
treatment, in small doses, especially in combination with thyroid 
treatment, can give good results in our struggles against old age, 
and in its treatment when it has advanced on us. 

We have often observed that old people taking iodides 
for arteriosclerosis, present a much more youthful appear- 
ance after such treatment; and Dr. G. W. Gibson, physician of 
the Royal Infirmary in Edinburgh, tells us that he has observed 



Prevention of Premature Old Age Through Drugs. 433 

the same thing. We might especially mention the case of an 
English gentleman 58 years of age, who had six years ago a 
hemorrhage in the right eye; since that time he has been taking 
iodides, and in spite of his age is looking quite fresh and youthful 
indeed, he recently married a young lady of 18 years. 



28 



CHAPTER LVI. 

ON THE PREVENTION OF PREMATURE OLD AGE AND ON THE 
TREATMENT OF OLD AGE BY ANIMAL EXTRACTS. 

WHEN, some twenty-two years or more ago, the first ac- 
counts came to hand of the marvelous effects of extracts from 
the thyroid gland of sheep, they were at first received, as in 
general are all reports about wonderful cures, with incredulity 
or scepticism ; and it is quite possible that the same might be the 
case regarding the success of our method of treating the symp- 
toms of old age, and the prevention of their premature develop- 
ment, by thyroid and other organic extracts, were it not that 
we are supported by a mass of evidence, to which we will at 
once refer. 

It has been noticed by all the leading investigators on the 
effects of thyroid extracts, such as G. Murray, 1 Hector Mac- 
kenzie, 2 Hertoghe, 3 and others, that the majority of old people 
treated for myxoedema by thyroid extracts, after a certain period 
of treatment, presented a much younger appearance, sometimes 
even to the extent of from ten to twenty years. This fact is 
perfectly true, as we can see from the photographs of these cases, 
taken before and after treatment, by Murray, Laache, 4 Oppen- 
heim, 5 Ewald, 5a Hertoghe, and many others ; the greater number 
of these photographs show persons looking very much younger 
after but a few months', and in some instances less, treatment. 
Several of the above-mentioned authorities, and also Vermehren 6 



1 Murray : "Diseases of the Thyroid Gland," vol. i, London, 1901. 

2 Mackenzie: British Med. Journal, Oct. 29, 1892. 

3 Hertoghe : Loc. cit. 

4 Laache: Deutsche Med. Wochenschrift, 1893. 
SQppenheim: Lehrhuch der Nervenkrankheiten, Nu. ii, p. 1390. 
B*E\vaId: "Die Erkrankungen der Schilddriise," second edition, 1909. 
6Vermphren: Loc. cit. 

(434) 



Prevention of Premature Old Age by Animal Extracts. 435 

and others, report that dark hair has grown on places which, 
before the treatment, were bare, and where previously gray hair 
had fallen off. This would appear incredible were it not a fact, 
familiar to all who are in the habit of prescribing, in many cases, 
treatment by thyroid extracts. 

Similar facts have been observed by us personally in a 
number of cases, among them two, of a very interesting char- 
acter, in the wards of Dr. Hector Mackenzie, at St. Thomas's 
Hospital, in London. One was a woman of 65, who looked 
more like 42 after several years' treatment with thyroid ex- 
tracts; the other was a woman of 42 who, as it seemed to me, 
looked quite ten years younger after taking daily one thyroid 
tablet for twelve months. About 2 years ago we saw in the 
wards of Dr. G. A. Gibson, at the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, a 
woman of 72 who, after a similar treatment during the past 
twenty years, looked, as we agreed with Dr. Gibson, only between 
50 and 60. Most of the above cases were those of persons suf- 
fering from myxcedema ; so the question arises whether all other 
people, not affected with this complaint to the same extent, may 
not also derive equal benefit from a similar treatment. 

We have shown in several chapters of this book that in 
old age the iodine content of the thyroid gland is much dimin- 
ished and the tissue of the gland itself is degenerated in varying 
degrees, at times approximating to myxoedema; and, as found 
also by Sir Victor Horsley, Hale White, Vermehren, Ewald, and 
ourselves, old age presents clinical symptoms similar to those of 
myxoedema. 

Naturally not every old man has the whole thyroid gland 
degenerated, and clinically, therefore, there will be varying de- 
grees in the myxcedematous conditions, some presenting more 
and some less of the symptoms; so that some men of 80 years 
of age may look younger than others at 65 or 70. 

If a man of 60, suffering from absolute myxcedema, that 
is, a complete degeneration of the thyroid gland, will present an 
appearance of 50 or less, after thyroid treatment, as shown in the 



436 Old Age Deferred. 



photographs of the above mentioned authorities, and as seen by 
ourselves, why should another man of 60, having only partial 
symptoms of this complaint, as usual at this age, not benefit to 
the same extent and look younger after similar treatment? It 
would be quite adverse to all notions of pathology for a man, 
in a better condition of general health and suffering only from 
a mitigated and partial form of a disease, not to derive equal or 
greater benefit from a similar treatment as the other person of the 
same age affected by a complete development and thus increased 
degree of the same disease. This, indeed, would be contrary to 
all sound reasoning. 

But we have had personal opportunities of treating numer- 
ous persons, not actually myxoedematous, but exhibiting only 
slight symptoms of such a condition, such as are found in people 
with premature senility, and also in many cases of obesity and 
arteriosclerosis, and in every case we have been able to observe 
a more youthful appearance afterward. 

The features have become notably more refined and more 
sharply defined, and there were many other benefits that may 
often follow thyroid treatment, such as loss of excessive weight, in- 
creased quantity of urine and of perspiration, and better action 
of the intestines. The gait especially became much easier; some 
were able to climb hills, whereas prior to the treatment they 
became fatigued from less than a ten minutes walk. The 
improvement in the mental condition was sometimes striking; 
memory especially became much better, as did also the general 
intelligence. It was also very interesting to note that abrasions, 
or any kind of sores, healed rapidly with fine granulations; for 
which reason such a treatment may give good results also in leg 
ulcers. We have obtained the best results from our thyroid 
treatment in those persons who were prematurely ageing; but 
even in the aged we have produced an improvement in the 
symptoms. 

By the amelioration of the functions of the skin, kidneys, 
and intestines, which functions are, as a rule, impaired in old 



Prevention of Premature Old Age by Animal Extracts. 437 

age, such treatment may already be indicated; and especially 
since the production of heat is thereby augmented, which is a 
great advantage to old people, who usually complain of cold. 
At the same time we are able to increase the processes of oxida- 
tion, which are, as already mentioned, diminished in old age. 
Thus, from the improvement in all these functions from the ad- 
ministration of thyroid extracts in old age, the treatment is, prima 
fade, justified. Great care must, however, be exercised in pre- 
scribing such extracts, and they should never be given unless the 
effects on the patient can be properly observed every three or four 
days, as all the drugs which are as effective as the thyroid, such 
as arsenic or other active drugs, can do much mischief if taken 
in large quantities. For such, so to say, physiological purposes 
as we are required to give them, thyroid extracts should be ad- 
ministered in a quantity just sufficient to make up the amount of 
thyroid secretion which the body demands; the greater the age, 
the larger the dose ; but we must not forget that, as in advanced 
cases of myxoedema, so also in advanced senility, we must not 
expect too great results from the treatment. The thyroid 
extracts that we give can only act if the thyroid gland still has 
some of its secreting structure intact and is not yet completely 
degenerated, which latter is the case in complete myxcedema and 
advanced senility. It is best to commence at about 40, and in 
persons with symptoms of premature senility, even before this. 
Simultaneous obesity will offer the best opportunity for this 
treatment, and by the mere reduction of superfluous fat a more 
youthful appearance may be obtained. In younger people, about 
or prior to middle age, one tablet daily, or sometimes two for a 
week or so, then going back to one a day, will be the best method. 
It also is necessary to have free intervals of five or six days 
between treatments, and then to commence de novo. We must 
bear in mind that the effects of the thyroid gland may be 
cumulative. 

From observations on ourselves and on patients we recom- 
mend for such as are not advanced in age, say, below 40 or 45, 



438 Old Age Deferred. 



one tablet for a week or two, then stop for a few days, resuming 
with one tablet for a week; then an interval of three days be- 
fore commencing again ; while for those with symptoms of prema- 
ture senility two or more tablets could be given, proceeding as 
above. In more advanced age two or three tablets may be given 
for two, three or four weeks before a free interval of several 
days takes place. 

We must emphasize the fact, however, that a physician who 
prescribes such extracts, should have a thorough knowledge of 
the physiology and pathology of the thyroid gland for his safe 
guidance. On the other hand, we again urge that patients should 
never use them otherwise than under the guidance of a physician. 

When thyroid is taken in an irrational way in large doses, or 
when continued for too long a time, we may sometimes have the 
very opposite symptoms for a time even more fat, and in some 
cases older looks; but if we abandon the treatment for two or 
three weeks we may witness, as we ourselves have done, a general 
improvement in the condition and personal appearance; after 
iodide treatment we may observe the same, sometimes with in- 
crease of fat. Thyroid extracts cause a greater activity of the 
thyroid, and at times even an over-activity thyroidism which 
may be followed by its exhaustion. This has been proved by 
experiments by Christiani, who transplanted a fresh thyroid 
gland on an animal with healthy thyroid, and thereby produced 
a degeneration of the latter. Walter Edmunds, by feeding 
monkeys and dogs on too large a quantity of thyroid extract, 
produced in their central nervous systems changes similar to 
those following extirpation of the thyroid gland. Much iodide 
of potassium is apt to produce, not only a diminution in size 
of the thyroid, but sometimes its degeneration (see Gamier, 
Chapter III). As we have observed, the symptoms of exhaus- 
tion of the thyroid after thyroid treatment are, as a rule, merely 
temporary, and may pass off after a rest of a week or so ; but yet 
we must sound a warning against hasty and imprudent treatment. 

7 LOG. cit. 



Prevention of Premature Old Age by Animal Extracts. 439 

These extracts contain more or less iodine according to 
their manufacture; and it has been shown by Claude Bernard 
that iodine is not easily eliminated from the body, but is retained 
for a given time; so that the effects of the treatment may be 
felt also in the free interval, and according to our observations, 
often better then than during actual treatment. Taking the ex- 
tracts for too long a time without intervals may, at times, pro- 
duce disagreeable symptoms, such as palpitation of the heart, 
nervous excitability, sleeplessness, etc. ; so that during the course 
of the treatment the patient should be examined every three or 
four days as to the condition of the heart and urine ; and if the 
pulse rises above 90, if it were lower before, the treatment should 
be suspended for a few days; much meat, alcohol, strong tea or 
coffee, should be avoided. When thyroid extract in large doses 
and much meat are taken together, according to our observation 
in a few cases, traces of sugar may appear in the urine up to, say, 
from o.i per cent, to 0.4 per cent., which quickly disappear if 
the meat is reduced, in spite of continuing the thyroid cure, as 
we have noted in two cases. It is, of course, well understood that 
thyroid treatment should not be tried in patients who show 
symptoms of a hyperactive condition of the thyroid gland e.g., 
a rapid heart action, etc. ; but we must rather try to improve only 
a deficient activity of the thyroid gland. By giving small quanti- 
ties of iodides before beginning thyroid treatment we could best 
ascertain the condition of the thyroid gland ; for if symptoms of 
iodism appeared we would then be in the presence of a very 
active thyroid, and thyroid treatment would be contraindicated. 
In many cases of inactivity of the thyroid gland we have obtained 
excellent results by administering simultaneously thyroid prepara- 
tions and small quantities of iodides. The use of stimulants 
such as alcohol, strong tobacco, and strong tea or coffee, should 
be forbidden during thyroid treatment. 

Taken in the above manner with the necessary precautions 
and only under medical supervision, thyroid as a preventive for 
premature senility, and as a treatment for the symptoms of senility, 



440 Old Age Deferred. 



is entirely harmless. We have never observed the least incon- 
venience in any of the numerous cases we have treated when 
our instructions as to doses and diet were carried out, nor in 
ourselves. We have personally, for experimental purposes, 
taken these extracts for the past five years once for ten months 
with short intervals and stood it very well. Sometimes a few 
occasional pimples were seen, and sometimes sore throat 
developed, and in some patients headache. It is essential that 
only fresh preparations from a reliable source should be used. 

The effects of these extracts on the nervous system and 
mentality are very remarkable. As already mentioned, we noted 
greater immunity from fatigue, bodily and mental, in many pa- 
tients, and also in ourselves. Memory seems to have been much 
improved. 

The same has also been noted by Hertoghe, who told us that 
he used to take three tablets immediately before beginning his 
lectures. We do not think it advisable to exceed two or three 
tablets a day ; and even then it is best not to take this quantity, as 
a general rule, for longer than one week, when we must then 
reduce this quantity to one tablet. 

In combination with thyroid extracts or alone, ovarian ex- 
tracts have given us favorable results in the treatment of aged 
women, and also in younger ones before the menopause, espe- 
cially after oophorectomy. Obesity that follows the menopause, 
or the degeneration or extirpation of the ovaries, and which 
may also be regarded as one of the primary symptoms of old 
age, has been in nearly every case very favorably influenced by 
ovarian extracts, particularly in such cases as thyroid extracts 
were used at the same time. 

A very interesting case is mentioned by Burghart 8 of 
obesity in a young woman of 20, consequent to an undeveloped 
condition of the ovaries and uterus. By giving ovarian extracts 
he was able to reduce the weight by 8 kilos, and when the treat- 
ment was discontinued, obesity returned. 

8 Burghart: Deutsche Med. Wochenschrift, p. 610 and 627, 1899. 



Prevention of Premature Old Age by Animal Extracts. 441 

As we have already shown, the ovaries also influence the 
processes of oxidation. Loewy and Richter were able to con- 
siderably increase oxidation in animals by ovarian extracts. 
Very important also is the fact that Spillman and Etienne 9 ob- 
served an increase in the number of red blood-corpuscles after 
ovarian treatment. For the above reasons alone, ovarian extracts 
should be tried in old age, where we find, as already stated, a 
diminution of oxidation, and very frequently also, in old women, 
an anaemic condition. Chroback and Landau were the first to 
employ with good results ovarian preparations for the relief of 
the symptoms following castration in women. According to our 
observations on many women under our care, the greatest benefit 
can be afforded by ovarian treatment to cases having the disagree- 
able nervous disorders which follow the menopause, such as hot 
flushes, nervous depression, headaches, nervous insomnia, etc., 
these symptoms having disappeared in nearly every case after 
several weeks' treatment. 

We consider ovarian extracts to be a specific against the 
painful feelings of heat in women in the years succeeding the 
menopause, or after oophorectomy in younger years. In order that 
these extracts should be active, it is necessary that they should 
be prepared from the corpus luteum part of the ovaries, which 
contains their internal secretions. The pig would be the best 
animal for the purpose, for its ovaries have been found supe- 
rior to those of other animals ; and they also contain more iodine, 
much more than the ovaries of cattle. 

When prescribing ovarian extracts we may give larger 
doses than of thyroid extracts, as they are less dangerous when 
taken in large quantities than the latter. We usually begin with 
two tablets, increasing to four, a day. 

Less active than the ovarian preparations are the extracts 
of the testicles, at least in the form in which they are at present 
used. It is very probable that this may be due to the testicles of 



Spillman and Etienne: C. R. du Congr&s de Medecine de' Nancy, p. 953, 
1896. 



442 'Old Age Deferred. 



bulls being mainly used up to now, for just as their ovaries are, so 
also may the testicles of cattle be less efficacious. In addition it 
is also probable that these extracts do not contain certain effective 
parts of the testicles. It has been demonstrated by several au- 
thorities, as Shattock and Seeligmann, 10 Ansele, and Bouin, that 
the internal secretion of the testicles is derived, to a certain extent, 
from the interstitial cells, a group of cells imbedded in the spaces 
between the individual tubules. In some animals, as in the pig, as 
found by Shattock, these cells are contained in such amount that 
they form a special part of the testicles called by Shattock "para- 
tubular glands;" 11 and for this reason alone pigs' testicles should 
be preferred. It seems that the interstitial cells can only play a 
role in combination with certain other parts of the male sexual 
organs, for certainly when alone they cannot represent the part 
of the testicles which gives the real internal secretion. This is 
shown by the fact that they are found in the largest number in 
degenerated conditions of the testicles for example: in cretins 
(Lanz), in undescended testicles (Bellingham Smith), and in 
atrophied testicles of old men (Haviero Spangaro 12 ). 

That testicular extracts are able to improve the symptoms 
of senility has been shown by the celebrated physiologist, Brown- 
Sequard, 13 from experiments on himself. He used an extract 
prepared from the crushed testicles of guinea-pigs or dogs. 
After injecting these extracts into his arms and legs, this old 
savant of 72 noted a considerable increase in his muscular and 
mental powers. As he mentioned in his communication to the 
Paris Biological Society, he observed in himself an augmentation 
of the energies of the nervous centers; he found that he could 
do more work than formerly, and that without getting tired he 
could more easily ascend the staircase, nearly running, just as he 
used to do until he was 60 ; and by the dynamometer he noticed a 

10 Shattock and Seeligmann: Transactions of the London Path. Society, 
p. 57, vol. Ivi. 

11 Shattock: LOG. clt. 

12 Spangaro: Anatomische Hefte, Wiesbaden, vol. Ix, 1902. 
130. R. de la Socigt de biologie, 1 and 15, Juin, 1889. 



Prevention of Premature Old Age by Animal Extracts. 443 

decided increase in the muscular power of his extremities. All 
his excretory functions were improved ; he had laxative action of 
the bowels without resorting to purges to the same degree as 
formerly; his stream of urine became much longer, thus indicat- 
ing a better muscular power in the urethra; he could work 
standing for a few hours, whereas before he was always obliged 
to be seated ; and he found that his intellectual powers increased 
considerably. 

It is almost unnecessary to add that this startling commu- 
nication was received, in spite of his great fame, with scepticism, 
and by many even with derision. And yet it is these discoveries 
by Brown-Sequard that have laid the foundation of our present 
knowledge of the internal secretions. That the effects were not 
due to auto-suggestion has been shown by the experiments of 
Zoth and Pregl, 14 who found, by means of Mosso's ergograph, 
an increase of muscular power through the injection of testicular 
extracts. It is also very interesting to note that in a few diseases 
which usually occur only in advanced age, testicular extracts have 
given good results, such as in Parkinson's disease and in tabes 
dorsalis, as shown in the communications of Brown-Sequard and 
D'Arsonval to the Paris Biological Society in 1892. 

We have also, for experimental purposes, tried on ourselves 
testicular extracts from the pig, and indeed we found a decided in- 
crease in muscular and mental powers. Thus we were able to 
climb the highest hills much more quickly and with much less 
fatigue than before ; and we made the same observation in regard 
to increased mental activity; and we must strictly defend our- 
selves from any suspicion of having been influenced by auto- 
suggestion, which is not to be inferred after similar observations 
of other authorities. Similar results we have personally ob- 
served after injection of spermin (Poehl). This substance, ob- 
tained from the testicles of animals, was introduced by Prof, 
v. Poehl, 15 of St. Petersburg, and has been commented upon 



14 Pfluger's Archiv. vol. vi, pp. 335 and 379, 1896. 

is Poehl and Tarchanoff: Organotherapie, vol. i, St. Petersburg. 



444 Old Age Deferred. 



by many authorities, among them Professor Senator and P. F. 
Richter. According to Poehl it advances all the processes of 
oxidation in the tissues, as is shown also by the experiments of 
other authorities for instance, Prof. Tarchanoff, Prof. Loewy, 
Richter, 16 etc. who found that it is able also to powerfully 
alkalinize the blood. It has been proved by a mass of experi- 
mental evidence that spermin is a catalytic ferment, and that 
it regulates tissue oxidation. Poehl insists that the diminu- 
tion of alkalinity of the blood may also reduce the resistance of 
the body to infection, a fact fully sustained by the theory of Dr. 
Sajous, 17 that immunity is influenced by alkalinity; and it is 
probably due to this that many authorities have obtained good 
results from spermin treatment in various infectious diseases and 
in conditions of autointoxication. Loewy and P. F. Richter 
found that spermin increases hyperleucocytosis and the alkalinity 
of the blood. The same effects have been claimed by Brown- 
Sequard and D'Arsonval for testicular extracts. They reported 
cases of successful cures in tuberculosis, and Ouspenski 18 has 
successfully treated Asiatic cholera with them. 

In the experiments made by Loewy and Richter, at the 
suggestion of Professor Senator, on animals, it was found 
that experimental diseases, such as pneumonia, terminated much 
better after an injection of spermin (see, also, Chapter III). 

As found by Bukojemsky, 19 Hirsch, etc., spermin treatment 
has given good results in senile marasmus; and senile pruritus 
can be improved by it, as stated in two cases by Bosse. 20 Very 
interesting, also, are this latter savant's observations in a case of 
optic atrophy due to syphilis, when spermin was used. The 
patient was nearly blind, and after sixteen injections of spermin 
he could again see the hands of a watch. 

Spermin is contained in different organs, especially in the 



16 P. F. Richter : Organotherapie, Berlin. 

17 Sajous : "Internal Secretions." 

18 C. R. Soc. de biologic, Nov. 5, 1892. 

19 Petersburgh Med. Wochenschrift, Nu. 7, p. 67, 1904. 

20 Journal fur med. Chemie u. Pharm., Dec., 1892. 



Prevention of Premature Old Age by Animal Extracts. 445 

ductless glands; and among these the testicles are naturally the 
richest in such a secretion. In order to obtain the best testicular 
preparation, the whole substance of the testicles must be taken, 
together with the interstitial cells, and not the latter only. 
Brown-Sequard prepared his extracts from guinea-pigs and 
dogs, which do not have a large number of these cells. We 
should like to take into consideration the discovery of Professor 
Lanz, who found in the testicles of impotent cretins a large 
quantity of interstitial cells; yet neither the physical nor mental 
condition of cretins permit the inference of very active sexual 
glands. 

In our opinion, the most active testicular extracts would be 
those derived from the testes of the pig; but not from the testicles 
only, for the preparation should also contain extracts from the 
prostate as well, for in the human body the action of the testicles 
is inseparable from that of the prostate. This has been shewn 
by the experiments of Camus and Gley, who found that seminal 
fluid exhibits more lively movement of the spermatozoa when a 
little prostatic liquid is added to it. It is thus very probable that 
by adding prostatic extracts to those of the testicles, the vitality 
of such extracts may be enhanced. 

It is important to note that in his article on old age in Dr. 
Stedman's well-known work, Boy-Teissier 21 relates that he ob- 
tained very good results from Brown-Sequard's testicular ex- 
tracts in the treatment of old age. 

We have seen in Chapter V what a marvelous influence the 
sexual glands exercise on vitality and long life; if, therefore, 
by testicular extracts we can enhance the activity of the sexual 
glands, it would really be worth while to do so. 

In addition to thyroid, ovarian, and testicular preparations, 
the extracts also of the kidneys should give good results in the 
treatment of old age and in the prevention of a prematurely aged 
condition, by improving the eliminative functions of the kidneys. 



21 "Twentieth Century Practice" by Thomas Stedman, M.D., London, p. 491, 
1897. 



446 Old Age Deferred. 



It has been found by many authorities, of whom we espe- 
cially mention Gilbert and Carnot, 22 Obolenski, 23 Dubois, 24 
Renaut, 25 and Teissier, 26 that by giving extracts of the kidneys 
they were able to improve the condition of patients suffering 
from various forms of renal diseases, especially when suffering 
from ursemic conditions and parenchymatous inflammations. We 
have also tried such extracts and found, indeed, beneficial results 
in many cases, as reported in an address we gave to the Medical 
Association of Greater New York on October 15, 1906. Since 
then we have had opportunities of noting similar results in a still 
greater number of patients, especially in aged people, among 
them being several with arteriosclerosis. In each case we have 
observed a decrease in the number of casts. In some cases of 
chronic parenchymatous nephritis we were surprised to find that 
there were no casts at all, after several weeks' treatment by renal 
extracts four tablets a day whereas, before treatment, there 
were found in one case twenty hyaline and granular casts in one 
specimen of urine only. We have also noticed, in many cases, a 
notable diminution of albumin, although it seems to us that the 
decrease in the number of casts has been more prominent ; and in 
many cases there has been an increased flow of urine. 

From the above results of treatment by renal extracts, 
such a treatment with extracts prepared by maceration of the 
kidneys of pigs, appears indicated, as a means to prevent prema- 
ture old age, and also in old people generally, especially since we 
never observed any deleterious symptoms after administering 
two to four tablets a day. It would, possibly, be useful to recom- 
mend in such cases pigs' kidneys daily ; and as they are not palat- 
able raw, unless tolerated in that condition, they can be grilled. 

Good effects, and probably to a greater degree, may be 
observed also after the use of pancreatic extracts. Their use in 



22L' poth6rapie, Paris, 1898. 
23Wratch, No. 27, 1899. 

24 Soc. de biologie, p. 287, 1903. 

25 Bull. gn. de th6rapeutique, p. 30, 1907. 
26 Teissier: Bull. M&L, No. 57, p. 617, 1907. 



Prevention of Premature Old Age by Animal Extracts. 447 

old age is indicated by the fact that there is in the pancreas, just 
as there is in the kidneys or thyroid, an increase of connective 
tissue in old age, and thus the pancreas is not able to produce the 
necessary amount of ferments for the digestion and assimilation 
of the proteid, carbohydrate, and fat food. We also often see, 
therefore, aged people lose weight, especially in advanced senility. 

According to the observations of many authorities, among 
them Abelmann, 27 H. Salomon, 28 and E. Meyer, 29 it would 
seem that, by the use of certain pancreatic extracts, there is a 
very decidedly better assimilation of proteid, of amylaceous, 
and especially of fatty matters. As in old age there is often a 
decrease of stomach and pancreatic juice, pancreatic extracts 
seem to be especially indicated. 

We have obtained good results in each case that we have 
treated by pancreatic extracts, and also in experiments on our- 
selves, having used a preparation introduced by H. Salomon. 
Even in aged persons we have noted easier digestion and the 
disappearance of digestive trouble after two or three tablets of 
the extract of pancreas taken immediately after dinner and supper. 
In cases of liver and gall-stone troubles, where previously there 
was a considerable loss of bodily weight, in nearly every case 
after pancreatic treatment there was no more falling off in the 
weight, and in some instances we have even found a consider- 
able increase in weight. It is our custom to apply these extracts 
to every case where we want to increase bodily weight by a 
better assimilation of the food. Especially in cases where we 
have given much milk do we find that it is much better tolerated 
by the addition of these extracts to the food. We have also 
found, by experiments on ourselves, that the feeling of oppression 
and heaviness in the stomach after hearty meals, especially of 
indigestible food, has been much improved by the use of two 



27 Abelmann: Quoted after Oser, Nothnagel's "Practice" p. 109; "Dis- 
eases of the Pancreas," p. 101. 

28 Salomon: Berl. klin. Wochenschrift, Nu. 3, 1902. 

29 Meyer: Zeitschrift fur exper. Path. u. Ther., vol. ii, 3 H. 



448 Old Age Deferred. 



to three of these pancreatic tablets. Especially have they proved 
useful after late dinners in preventing a disturbance of the sleep. 
We have given above an account of the different organic 
preparations by which we can treat the symptoms of old age 
with good results. According to our experience it is not advis- 
able to use all these extracts at one and the same time, but only a 
few. At any rate, thyroid tablets can be used for a long time, 
but in every case with intervals between the treatment. With 
these ovarian or testicular extracts can be used, as can also pan- 
creatic extracts. The last mentioned ones should be used only 
as long as necessary until digestion is improved and bodily 
weight is increased, if so desired. They may then be discarded 
until again needed. Thyroid extract should also be discarded, 
after two weeks* or one month's use, for a week or so, and then 
slowly begun again. It is difficult to give general instructions 
that will suit every case ; it is therefore best to treat cases in an 
individual manner, the prime maxim being that by such extracts 
the function of certain glands should be improved until what 
was defective or deficient has been made up. The thyroid ex- 
tracts require that the effects should be carefully watched ; but all 
the other extracts are free from harmful consequences, especially 
if not taken in abusive doses, and provided also, of course, that 
they are fresh and not decomposed bv long keeoing. 



CHAPTER LVII. 
A FEW HINTS ON YOUTHFUL APPEARANCE. 

THE youthful appearance of a person is dependent chiefly 
upon the condition of the complexion, of the teeth and of the hair. 
If a person has a fresh complexion, and if the muscles of the 
face are firm and not relaxed his face will show a youthful 
appearance. A few wrinkles around the eyes and the crow-feet, 
which we find especially with persons of a vivid, lively disposi- 
tion, whose faces show a sensitive expressiveness do not prejudice 
the youthful appearance of such persons. 

In order to keep the complexion fresh and to protect the 
skin from fading there are a few hygienic measures to follow. 
It is not advantageous to wash the face daily with a soap. It is 
much better to dip the towel, when we get up, in cold, soft water, 
the best in rain water and then to wet the face all over, or to bend 
over a basin with cold rain water and to throw with the hand the 
water against all parts of the face. Thus by the refreshing cold 
of the water the muscles of the face will be "toned up" and their 
relaxation prevented. The same way it will be advisable to wet 
the face with a little eau de cologne or alcohol of 30 per cent, 
whenever fatigued during the day in order to prevent the relaxa- 
tion of the muscles of the face. The skin of the face should be 
made only lightly wet, for the frequent thorough washing of the 
skin will tend to make it very dry. In order to remove the dirt 
from the face the best method is to employ a very mild soap which 
contains much fat. It is advisable to put on the face in the 
evening before going to bed an ointment that is made out of 
animal fat, e.g., lanolin to which may be added glycerine or some 
other kind of fat of animal origin. But it is not necessary to do 
this every day. Massage of the face, by which the blood supply 

2 . (449) 



450 Old Age Deferred. 



of the muscles can be augmented may be of great benefit, if it is 
done in a scientific way and carefully. To improve the complex- 
ion of the face and to prevent the unsesthetic reddish skin with 
dilated blood-vessels, the tincture of benzoin or cosmetics that 
contain it can be used with profit. Those, however, who are so 
happy as to have a naturally fresh, rosy complexion should never 
use benzoin, for according to our observations the strong tinc- 
tures made with it may be detrimental to their skin. 

Of great importance to the freshness of the complexion is 
also a regular daily thorough cleaning of the intestines, we have 
often made the observation, that the yellowish dark complexion 
of constipated persons gets much improved after a copious 
evacuation ; thus in this sense the use of purgative mineral waters, 
and also the use of laxative fruits like grapes taken daily in large 
quantities often much improve the complexion. Then also the 
condition of the liver is of great importance for a fine complexion, 
and everything that improves the functions of the liver can con- 
tribute to conserve the same. In this connection we refer the 
reader to our chapter on the hygiene of the liver. 

Of great use also are bodily exercises, for instance long 
walks in the open air, as thus the circulation of the blood is much 
improved in the periphery of the body and thus also is the face 
and the nutrition of the tissues of the skin improved. It is also 
of importance to carefully observe our teachings on the rational 
hygienic use of food as given previously. It is a fact that the 
complexion of great meat eaters is not so fresh and finely delicate 
as that of persons living on lacto-vegetable foods. We 
have also often made the observation, that persons eating meat 
in abundance gain a better complexion after having been put on 
a diet of milk, eggs, butter, cereals and other vegetable foods, 
especially abundance of fruit. 

It is also a fact that a bright, cheerful disposition favorably 
influences the expression of the face and the complexion. Pas- 
sions, grief and sorrow may prove very detrimental, as they often 
leave lines and wrinkles in the face. 



Youthful Appearance. 451 

We have already mentioned previously that certain drugs 
such as arsenic, iron and iodides can prove of great benefit for 
the production of youthful looks, as they powerfully influence the 
formation of the blood and affect its circulation through the 
tissues, and also the general nutrition. Furthermore the thyroid 
preparations can bring about the same results and they also con- 
tribute to obtain and retain a youthful appearance as we have 
shown previously. We will only mention here the important 
fact that wrinkles in the face are of frequent occurrence in 
degenerated conditions of the thyroid gland ; in young individuals 
and even in infants this may be seen. On the other hand may be 
observed the disappearance of wrinkles after thyroid treatment 
as shown in our chapter on the treatment of old age through 
animal extracts. Hot baths are also useful to aid in retaining a 
youthful appearance as they promote a better circulation of the 
blood through the tissues of the skin and an improvement of 
the functions of the skin. 

Above all it is the condition of the teeth that is of utmost 
importance for youthful looks. For if they fall out atrophy of 
the alveolar process takes place, and when the lips and the 
cheeks lack their osseous support they will fall in. The chin in 
consequence gets pointed, the height of the face is diminished 
and the whole face looks much older. To avoid this everything 
should be done to keep the teeth in good condition and to prevent 
their decay and their falling out. 

The ruin of the teeth may be brought about by external and 
internal causes. The first are less dangerous, for they are chiefly 
of bacterial origin and they can be 'avoided by a scrupulous clean- 
ing of the teeth. Much more serious and sometimes even 
unavoidable are the internal causes thus especially the bad nutri- 
tion of the gums. If the gums are not sufficiently supplied with 
blood or if the blood is lacking certain important elements, or if 
it contains elements of a toxic nature as for instance in diabetes, 
they become atrophic. They retract and the support the teeth 
receives is insufficient. 



452 Old Age Deferred. 



When the saliva is of an acid nature tartar gets deposited 
on the teeth and this may cause the formation of pus in the 
alveoli of the teeth i.e., produce alveolar pyorrhoea. In such a 
condition the base of the teeth is surrounded by pus, which 
destroys the substance of the teeth which are then lost. Most 
frequently we find an acid sa'iiva in meat eaters and in certain 
diseases, especially in diabetes, gout, etc. According to Paterson 
the above condition is very frequent in persons with chronic nasal 
and pharyngeal catarrhs, especially when breathing through the 
mouth. 

The best means to obtain a regular supply of blood to the 
gums is the massage of the gums by the finger, on which may be 
put a little olive oil, and then gently rub the lower jaw from 
below upwards, and the upper jaw from above downwards. 
Equally a rubbing of the teeth with a brush that is put in an 
alcoholic solution of 30 per cent, will do good. The acid saliva 
can be remedied by an alkaline mouth water, or a paste containing 
bicarbonate of sodium in large quantities. It is also very benefi- 
cial to the gum to clean it with alcohol of 30 per cent, gargling 
or drawing it between the teeth, as is also the use of certain 
antiseptic and stringent mouth waters like borax with tincture 
of myrrh, or ratanhia with myrrh, etc. Hydrogen peroxide is an 
ideal antiseptic for the teeth and gums, and in strong solution it 
may prove useful in cases of a hypersemic and inflamed condition 
of the gum. 

The condition of the sexual glands and of the thyroid gland 
also powerfully influence the condition of the teeth, which can 
be seen plainly by the fact that all the alterations of these glands, 
as in pregnancy, in chlorotic conditions, etc., may produce 
important changes in the condition of the teeth and the alveolary 
processes. In some cases we were able to improve a swelled and 
hyperaemic condition of the gum by the administration of thyroid 
extracts. 

Youthful looks also very much depend upon the condition 
of the hair. When the hair is scarce and what there is left is gray 



Youthful Appearance. 463 

a person appears much older than he really is. When we get to 
a certain age and many persons even before the connective 
tissue in the capillaries which provide the hair root with blood 
becomes augmented and the elasticity of their walls become lost. 
Thus there will be a difficulty in the regular blood supply to the 
hair roots or bulbs. We have already in these pages insisted on 
the fact that iodides are able to improve the circulation of the 
blood in the capillaries and thus they may give good results in 
such cases, especially in aged persons. We may also improve the 
blood circulation by massage of the scalp done in a gentle way 
and carefully. According to Ehrmann the faradization of the 
hair gives also good results. Above all we should not make diffi- 
cult the blood supply to the hair roots by the wearing of hard 
stiff hats which compress the blood-vessels. Less often the 
falling out of the hair is caused by bacterial diseases and such 
can be best combated by antiseptic ointments by sublimate, 
alcohol, by washing with tar soap, etc. 

There exists here also a sympathetic connection between the 
condition of the hair and that of the thyroid and the sexual 
glands. In the degenerated conditions of these glands we 
frequently find the hair very spare, it remains short, dry and 
brittle and falls out very easily. After having treated such cases 
for a certain time with thyroid extracts, we can obtain often a 
great improvement in the condition of the hair. It may in the 
beginning fall out the more, but this happens only with hair that 
is already morbidly decayed, but afterwards we will observe a 
still better growth of new hair. Arsenic may also give similar 
results according to our own observations and that of other 
authorities. 

Youthful looks can also be obtained by a slender figure. 
Slender persons look often younger than they are, whereas 
corpulency conveys more the impression of a higher age than 
would correspond to the real number of years. Therefore those 
who wish to look young must avoid becoming corpulent. Above 
all the quantity of meat should be limited, for corpulency can be 



454 Old Age Deferred. 



best brought about by much meat in the diet, if at the same time 
also amylaceous or starchy foods and sweets are taken in quantity. 
Besides a frugal diet, much exercise contributes in most persons 
to the prevention of obesity. Turkish baths, and according 
to the prevalent opinion, also the use of certain purgative mineral 
waters like those of Carlsbad, Marienbad or Kissingen will also 
give good results. Very often we can see good results with a 
great loss in the weight of corpulent persons after the use of 
thyroid preparations as we have mentioned previously. 



CHAPTER LVIII. 

THE ^TWELVE COMMANDMENTS" FOR THE PRESERVATION OF 
YOUTH, AND THE ATTAINMENT OF A GREEN OLD AGE. 

IN his report on the autopsy of Thomas Parr, who lived 
to the age of 152 years and 9 months, Dr. Harvey, physician to 
the king, attributed his death to the change from a frugal diet 
of subrancid cheese, milk in every form, and coarse, hard bread, 
to the rich feeding he received in London, and to the change 
from the healthy air of the country to the foggy climate of the 
metropolis. We also dwelt on the important fact that by his 
leading such a peasant's life, free from care owing to its sim- 
plicity it contributed to his very advanced age; for, as the great 
Harvey pithily put it, "sorry fare, but free from care." 

We thus see that this celebrated discoverer of the circulation 
of the blood ascribed special importance, for the attainment of an 
advanced old age, to these same agencies, viz. : living temperately 
and in the open air, and absence from worry, the importance of 
which we have demonstrated by scientific evidence in the various 
chapters of this book. 

We have found, among the cases of those who lived to a 
great age, sometimes much over one hundred years, very numer- 
ous instances of persons who were in poor circumstances, exist- 
ing on a very simple diet, but who were free from cares. To 
attain such a measure of simple diet does not require any very 
great effort of mind; peasants obtain it without care or worry. 
If we were asked for the best means of living to be 100 years 
old we would say : become a peasant or a pauper and be received 
into an English work-house. 

It is astonishing how many of the inmates of the Eng- 
lish workhouses and other similar institutions for the poor be- 
come very aged. They have no anxieties about getting their 

(455) 



456 Old Age Deferred. 



daily bread, and oftentimes they are fed better than they would 
have been in their homes, although only the minimum amount 
of hygienic food is given. (This certainly would not have ap- 
plied to the English workhouses before the days of Charles 
Dickens.) Workhouse inmates lead a very regular and frugal 
life, rising in the small hours of the morning and retiring to bed 
early in the evening. Thus, in winter time, they can never con- 
tract pneumonia by coming home late from the overheated theatre, 
concert, or club-house. They also need not worry about their 
fortunes, for they have none. 

We may thus conclude that a workhouse may be a more 
favorable place for reaching a good old age than a palace, which 
coincides with the pithy words of Dr. Harvey already quoted. 

To the three agencies of frugality, fresh air, and no worries 
we would like to add the great advantage of sunshine, plenty 
of milk in the diet, and little meat, a daily proper action of the 
bowels, a daily bath, rational clothing, and above all con- 
sidering the great importance of the functions of the glands with 
internal secretion as a means of freeing our body from poison- 
ous products, and thus preventing premature old age we must 
insist on the rational hygiene of these organs, and on the rein- 
forcement of their functions, if changed by age or disease, by 
means of extracts obtained from similar organs of healthy 
animals. 

From long study of the lives of the patriarchs of great age 
who, according to evidence, sometimes legal, and acknowledged 
also by such authorities as Professor Pfluger 1 and Pel, 2 have 
attained an age much over 100, and in some cases even of 160 
we have come to the conclusion that, by following the hygienic 
rules we have laid down in the various chapters in this book, we 
certainly can preserve our youthfulness till 50 or 60, and our 
life to 100 or over. 

We fully acknowledge the value of descent from long-lived 



i LOG. tit. 

2 Pel: Loc.cit. 



"Twelve Commandments" for a Green Old Age. 457 

families, but we may refer to the instances we have quoted of 
persons descended from short-lived families and yet living to be 
nearly 100. 

It would, indeed, be most foolish to feel like an old man or 
woman when but 40 or 50, and to die perhaps at 60, when, by the 
exercise of a little judgment, we can considerably prolong our 
youth, which may otherwise be fast flitting away, preparing us for 
an early grave, and enjoy our life twice as much by being free 
from pains and ailments. 

Most of the evils that befall us in this world, including 
premature old age and early death, are, in our opinion, as we 
have often repeated, solely due to our own negligence; and to 
avoid such a fate we recommend the following precepts : 

1. To be as much as possible in the open air, and especially 
in the sunshine; and to take plenty of exercise, taking special 
care to breathe deeply and regularly. 

2. To live on a diet consisting of: meat once a day, eggs, 
cereals, green vegetables, fruit, and raw milk of healthy cows 
(as much as the stomach will permit) ; and to masticate properly. 

3. To take a bath daily; and in addition, once a week or 
once every two weeks, to take a sweat bath (if the heart can 
stand it). 

4. To have a daily action of the bowels ; and in addition to 
take a purgative once a week if there is any tendency to 
constipation. 

5. To wear very porous underwear, preferably cotton j 
porous clothing, loose collars, light hat (if any), and low shoes. 

6. To go to bed early, and to rise early. 

7. To sleep in a very dark and very quiet room, and with 
a window open ; and not to sleep less than six to six and one-half 
hours, or more than seven and one-half, and for women eight 
and one-half, hours. 

8. To have one complete day's rest in each week, without 
even reading or writing. 

Q. To avoid mental emotions, and also worries about things 



458 Old Age Deferred. 



that have happened and cannot be altered, as well as about things 
that may happen. Never to say unpleasant things, and to avoid 
listening to such, if possible. 

10. To get married ; and if a widow or widower, to marry 
again ; and to avoid sexual activity beyond the physiological limit, 
as also to avoid a total suppression of the functions of these 
organs. 

11. To be temperate in the use of alcohol and tobacco, and 
also in the use of coffee or tea. 

12. To avoid places that are overheated, especially by steam, 
and badly ventilated. To replace or reinforce the functions of 
the organs which may have become changed by age or disease, 
by means of the extracts from the corresponding organs of 
healthy animals ; but only to do this under the strict supervision 
of medical men who are thoroughly familiar with the functions 
of the ductless glands. 



GLOSSARY. 



Acetone, Acetonum. An inflammable, colorless liquid of an acrid taste 

and a penetrating odor. Occurring in small quantities in the blood 

and urine and in considerable quantities at times in diabetic urine. 
Acetonitrile. Methyl cyanide. A colorless volatile liquid. 
Acetonuria. The presence of an abnormal amount of acetone in the urine. 
Acromegalia, Acromegaly. A chronic nervous disease, usually of adults 

and marked by abnormal processes of growth, especially in the head. 

face, and extremities: Marie's disease. It has in many cases been 

found to be associated with disease of the pituitary body and the 

thyroid gland. 
Adenoid. Resembling a gland. Name given to masses of hypertrophied 

glands normally present in the nasopharynx. 

Adolescence. Youth: the period between puberty and full development. 
Adrenal. Situated near the kidney. The suprarenal capsule. 
Agglutinin. A substance, occurring according to some investigators in 

blood-plasma, according to others only in the serum after coagula- 
tion, comparatively resistant to heat, drying, putrefaction, etc., 

showing many of the characteristics of prpteids, and producing 

agglutination or sticking together by its action on the surface of 

foreign cells. 
Alexin. Any principle that accompanies a pathogenic cell growth and is 

antagonistic to its evil effects, a defensive proteid. Any albuminous 

preparation used for protective inoculation. 
Alkalimetry. The process of determining the amount of free alkali in 

various substances. 
Alveolar. Belonging to the alveoli. 
Alveoli, (a) Bony socket of a tooth; (&) an air-cell of the lung; (c) a 

cavity, pit, or recess. 
Amenorrhea. Absence or stoppage of the menstrual discharge, normal 

during pregnancy. 
Amphibia. A class of vertebrates forming a transitional group between 

the fishes and air-breathing animals, usually having gills in the 

larval form and lungs in the adult. 
Amyl Nitrite. A drug which produces yasodilation opening of the 

blood-paths. Formerly used in trigeminal neuralgia and malaria. 
Amylaceous. Composed of starch: starch-like. 
Amylolytic. Tending to dissolve starch, and thus to favor its conversion 

into sugar: sometimes applied to the saliva. 
Analogous Tissue. A diseased tissue resembling a normal elementary 

tissue of the body. 
Anemia. Deficiency of the blood in quantity or quality, either general 

or local. 

Anomaly. Irregularity: deviation from rule. 
Antipyretic. A remedy to lower temperature. 
Antipyrin. A colorless, almost odorless, crystalline powder or tabular 

crystals, with a slightly bitter taste, prepared by the condensation of 

phenylhydrazine with aceto-acetic ether with the subsequent menthy- 

lation of the product. 
Antitoxic. The quality of counteracting poisons: overcoming toxic 

influences. 
Antivenin, Antivenomous Serum. A polyvalent blood-serum prepared 

from animals rendered immune to snake-venom. 

(459) 



460 Glossary. 



Aorta. The larger arterial trunk arising from the left ventricle of the 
heart, and indirectly giving origin to every artery except the pul- 
monary and its ramifications. 

Arborization. A branching distribution of veinlets or of nerve-filaments, 
especially the branched terminal ramifications of a nerve-axon. 

Arteriosclerosis. Sclerosis or hardening of the walls of an artery, espe- 
cially of the inner coats. 

Atheroma. A form of fatty degeneration of the coats of the arteries in 
arteriosclerosis, producing patches of induration or of softening. 

Athyroidia. A condition caused by an insufficiency of thyroid secretion. 

Atrophy. A regressive metamorphosis, "wasting away" (not always due 
to imperfect nutrition), in which the parts become smaller by diminu- 
tion of their elements, either in size or in number. 

Attenuated. Drawn out thin. The lessening of weight, as by dietetic 
and medicinal treatment. 

Auto-intoxication. Poisoning with toxic products elaborated within the 
body. Self-infection from self-formed poisons. 

Axilla. The armpit. 

Bacteria. Any of the microscopic, unicellular masses of protoplasm 
referred to a genus. Each is surrounded by an envelope, the total 
vital capacity of each species being represented by every cell. 

Butyric. Relating to or derived from butter. 

Cachexia. A depraved condition or habit of body or nutrition. 

Calcium Carbonate. A soft, white, inodorous substance. Chalk. It 
occurs in shells, bones, and marble. 

Callus. The osseous substance deposited between and around the divided 
portions of a fractured bone. Unnatural hardness or induration of 
any soft part or a thickening of the cuticle, caused by pressure or 
friction. 

Calorie. The unit of heat, or the quantity of heat required to raise 1 
gram of water 1 degree centigrade. 

Carbohydrate. Any one of a group of chemical compounds in which 
carbon is combined with hydrogen and oxygen, which exist in the 
same proportions as in water, the carbon atoms usually being a 
multiple of six. 

Catabolism. The production of a simpler substance from a more com- 
plex. Passage of tissue material from a higher to a lower plane of 
specialization or complexity. 

Catalysis. In chemistry a reaction that appears to take place owing to 
the mere presence of another body that apparently undergoes no 
change. 

Catalytic. Belonging to or causing catalysis. 

Cellulose. A carbohydrate forming the framework or skeleton of plants, 
and the most abundant substance in the vegetable kingdom except 
water. 

Chlorotic. Relating to chlorosis. A person affected with chlorosis, or 
"green sickness," a form of anemia. 

Choledochus. The common bile-duct. 

Choline. A ptomaine found in brain tissues, in the bile, in yolks of egg, 
and in many decomposing animal and vegetable tissues. 

Chromatolysis. The breaking down and dissolution of the chromatin of 
cell-nuclei. 

Chromophile. Stainable or easily stained, or absorbing of color. 

Cirrhosis. A disease of the liver or other organs marked by prolifera- 
tion and increase of the interstitial connective tissue, which subse- 
quently contracts or shrinks, producing atrophy and degeneration of 
the parenchymatous substance. 

Climacteric. A particular epoch of the ordinary term of life marked by 
periods of seven years, at which the body is supposed to be peculiarly 



Glossary. 461 



affected, and to suffer considerable change. Used to indicate the 
"change of life," or cessation of menstruation in women. 

Clinical. Pertaining to the sick-bed treatment of a patient. 

Colloid. Resembling glue. 

Connective tissue. The framework tissue which supports and connects 
other tissues and organs. 

Convoluted Tubule. The contorted portion of a uriniferous tubule. 

Corpus Luteum. "Yellow body," the yellow mass in the ovary occupying 
the place of a Graafian follicle which has discharged its ovum. 

Cretinism. A congenital disease, characterized by goiter, stunted 
growth, swelled abdomen, wrinkled skin, wan complexion, vacant 
and stupid countenance, misshapen cranium, idiocy, and comparative 
insensibility. Disturbance of the function of the thyroid gland is 
accredited as the cause. 

Cystitis. Inflammation of the urinary bladder. 

Dementia Praecox. Any form of dementia beginning at puberty and 
marked by negativism, stereotypy, mannerisms, and verbigeration. 

Desquamation. A scaling off. The separation of lamina or scales from 
the skin, or from mucous or serous surfaces, or from bones. 

Dextrin. A soluble carbohydrate into which starch is converted by 
action of diastase or dilute acids. 

Diabetes Mellitus. A disorder of metabolism characterized by chronic 
hyperglycemia and glycosuria on a diet not containing excessive 
amounts of sugar, and associated with polyuria, polydipsia, poly- 
phagia, emaciation; often dryness of the mouth and skin; some- 
times boils, carbuncles, spontaneous gangrene, loss of sexual power, 
or nervous affections. 

Diuresis. Increased discharge of urine, from whatever cause. 

Ductless Glands. Glands without an excretory duct. 

Dynamometer. An instrument with which to measure the force of mus- 
cular contraction, especially of the hand grasp. 

Ectropion. Eversion of the edge of a part, especially of the eyelid or 
eyelids. 

Edema. A swelling from effusion of serous fluid into the cellular 
substance. 

Emunctory. Excretory. Any excretory duct of the body. 

Endometritis. Inflammation of the inner lining membrane of the body 
of the uterus. 

Enemata. Liquids or injections thrown into the rectum; clysters. 

Enteroptosis. Prolapse of the intestines. 

Enzyme. A ferment. A substance showing proteid-like reactions, easily 
destroyed by moderate heat, originating from living cells, either 
directly or through the intermediate stage of a pro-enzyme, and 
showing a metabolic activity in converting a specific substance or 
substances into certain other products in a manner and to an extent 
independent of the amount of enzyme present and without being 
itself used up in the process. 

Epiphysial. Pertaining to or of the nature of an epiphysis. 

Epiphysis. A piece of bone growing upon another, as the bulky extremi- 
ties of long bone which are in early life separated by cartilage from 
the shaft. 

Epithelium, -lia. Epithelial cells: cells which form the surface of the 
skin, mucous membranes, and line all canals having communications 
with the external air. 

Erythematous. Of the nature of erythema; redness of the skin. 

Ethnographical. Concerning the science of the characteristics of the 
human family. 

Etiology. The science of the causation of disease. - 



462 Glossary. 



Exophthalmic Goiter. Synonyms: Graves's disease, Basedow's disease. 

A disease marked by protrusion of the eyes, enlarged thyroid gland, 

anemia, and overaction of the heart. 
Extirpation. The complete removal or eradication of a part by the 

knife or by caustic. 

Faradization. A method of treating disease by a localized application 

of induction currents. 
Follicle. A little bag: applied in anatomy to a very small cavity or 

tubular gland, as the hair glands and the sebaceous glands of the skin. 
Follicular. Resembling or belonging to a follicle. 

Gastroptosis. A downward displacement of the stomach. 

Glomerulus. (1) A small, rounded mass. (2) A part of the kidney; a 

coil of blood-vessels projecting into the extended ends of each 

uriniferous tubule. 

Glycosuria. The presence of sugar in the urine. 
Graves's Disease. (See Exophthalmic Goiter.) 

Hemianopsia. Blindness in one-half of the field of vision of one or 
both eyes. 

Hemoglobin. A red, crystalline substance, of uncertain and very com- 
plex composition, found in red blood-corpuscles of the venous blood, 
and believed to consist of hemochromogen and a proteid. 

Histology. The science of the minute structure and composition of the 
different tissues of organized bodies. 

Hyaline Cast. A nearly transparent and clear urinary cast. 

Hydrothyonuria. The presence of hydrogen sulphide in the urine. 

Hyperactivity. Abnormal activity. 

Hyperemia. Excess of blood in any part due to increased influx or 
obstruction of the outflow. 

Hyperesthesia. Morbid increase of the general sensibility, or of one of 
the special senses. 

Hyperleucpcytosis. Increase in the number of leucocytes in the blood. 

Hyperplasia. The increase of the number of the individual structural 
elements of a tissue. 

Hyperpyrexia. Abnormally high fever, especially when over 42 C. 
or 106 F. 

Hypersecretion. Excessive secretion. 

Hypertrophy. Enlargement of a part or an organ, especially when due 
to overnutrition. 

Hypothyroidia. Diminished function of the thyroid gland. 

Impermeable. Not permeable: not permitting a passage through. 
Interstitial Hepatitis. Inflammation of the interstitial connective tissue 

of the liver. 
Interstitial Nephritis. Acute or chronic inflammation of the kidneys. 

Lab-ferment. The ferment (or enzyme) of rennet which coagulates 

milk, forming curds. 

Lactation. The time or period of secreting milk. 
Lactic. Pertaining to or derived from milk. 
Lanolin. A body consisting of cholesterin and fatty acids obtained from 

sheep's wool: used as a basis for ointments, especially with equal 

parts of petrolatum, on account of its ready absorption and its 

peculiar resistance to the growth of bacteria. 
Lecithin. A complex nitrogenous fatty substance occurring widely 

spread throughout the animal body; chemically, a glycerophosphate 

of neurin. 
Leguminous. Pertaining to the fruit or seed that is used as a food, 

such as peas, beans, etc., rarely any esculent vegetable. 



Glossary. 463 



Leucocyte. A white blood-corpuscle or one of the cells resembling it. 
Leucocytolysis. The destruction of leucocytes, as by bacterial extracts. 
Leucomaine. Any of a number of basic bodies, such as ornithin, the 

hexone and purin bases, etc., which are the normal products of tissue 

metabolism. 

Maceration. The act of steeping a substance in hot or cold water, 
usually to extract its virtues. 

Maltose. Malt-sugar, identical in composition with milk-sugar, but in 
its properties much more like grape-sugar. It is derivable from 
starch or glycogen, by the action of saliva, pancreatic juice, or malt 
diastase. 

Menstrual. Having to do with menstruation. The blood discharged in 
menstruation. 

Metabolism. The process by which living cells or organisms are capable 
of incorporating substances obtained from food into an integral part 
of their own bodies. 

Metrorrhagia. Excessive discharge (usually hemorrhagic) from the 
womb, especially when occurring at other times than during men- 
struation. Uterine hemorrhage. 

Molecular. Pertaining to molecule. A very small particle of matter. 

Muscarine. A poisonous alkaloid obtained from Agaricus muscarius. 

Mydriasis. A preternatural or morbid dilatation of the pupil of the eye. 

Myxedema. The name given to a condition characterized by a hyper- 
plastic and modified deposit of connective tissue in all parts of the 
body. 

Narcosis. The progress of narcoma or the production of narcotism by 

drugs, as opium, or by poisonous products originating in the body. 

Narcoma, stupor, or the state of being under the influence of narcotic 

medicine. 

Necrotized. Lifeless. 
Nephritis. Inflammation of the kidneys, which, when acute, involves 

chiefly the renal parenchyma, and, when chronic, either the paren- 
chyma or the connective tissue or both. 
Neural. Belonging to nerves. 
Neurasthenia. Nervous debility. Nervous prostration. An exhausted 

condition with irritability; a functional derangement of the nervous 

system, either spinal or cerebral, due usually to overwork or other 

excessive expenditure of energy. 
Neuroglia. The tissue, probably of ectodermic origin, forming the basis 

of the supporting framework of the nervous tissue of the cerebro- 

spinal axis. 

Neuron. The cerebrospinal axis. 
Neuropathic Constitution. The nervous diathesis: that constitution of 

body and mind which predisposes to nervous disease. 
Nuclein. The phosphorized proteid or nitrogenous substance found in 

cell-nuclei. It is believed to furnish the functional activity of the 

cell. 

Omnivorous. Feeding or subsisting on food of all kinds. 

Oophorectomy. Excision of one ovary. 

Opsonin. From opsono, "I prepare the ground for." An undetermined, 

unstable substance in the serum of the blood that renders bacteria 

more susceptible to ingestion by phagocytes. 
Osteomalacia. A chronic disease marked by progressive softening of all 

bones, due to the loss of their earthy constituents, so that they 

become flexible and fragile and unable to support the body. 
Oxidation. The combining of a certain quantity of oxygen with metals 

or other substances. The formation of an oxide. - 



464 Glossary. 



Palpation. Examination by the hand or by touch: manipulation of a 
part with the fingers for the purpose of determining the condition 
of the underlying organs. 

Pancreas. A long, flat, racemose gland of a reddish color situated in the 
epigastric region beneath the stomach on a level with the first to the 
third lumbar vertebrae. Its function is an important part of the 
digestion of proteids, fats, and carbohydrates. 

Parametritis. Inflammation of the connective tissues in the immediate 
vicinity of the uterus. 

Parathyroid. Situated beside the thyroid gland. One of the small 
glands, usually four to five in number, distinct from the accessory 
thyroids, lying along the lateral lobes, and possessing an important 
internal secretion independent of the thyroid gland. 

Parenchymatous Tissue, Pulp Tissue. The tissue forming the pulp or 
parenchyma of an organ. 

Pathology. The doctrine or consideration of diseases, and, in a broad 
sense, of every deviation from normal structure, composition, or 
function. That branch of medicine which treats of disease, their 
origin, nature, and termination, special attention being paid to the 
disorders of function and alterations of structure preceding and 
resulting therefrom. 

Perchloride. A chloride containing more chlorine than a protochloride. 

Percussion. The act of striking any part of the body with the fingers, 
or with an instrument, to ascertain its condition by the sound 
obtained. 

Pericardium. The membranous bag which contains the heart. It con- 
sists of an external layer of fibrous tissue and an internal serous 
layer, the latter of which surrounds the heart. 

Peristalsis. A peculiar worm-like movement of the intestines and other 
tubular organs by which they gradually propel their contents 
onward. 

Pernicious. Highly dangerous. 

Phagocytosis. The ingestion of foreign bodies, microbes, etc., by the 
action of phagocytes (certain of the colorless blood-cells). 

Pigmentation. The coloring matter in the skin. 

Pituitary Body. The small ellipsoidal body which rests on the sella 
turcica and is attached to the base of the brain by a pedicle. 

Plethoric. Fullness; a state marked by excess of blood in the vessels. 

Plexus Myentericus. Auerbach's plexus. A plexus of sympathetic 
fibers between the longitudinal and circular intestinal muscle-fibers. 

Pneumococcus (of Friedlander). The bacterium of pneumonia. 

Polydipsia. Excessive thirst. 

Polyuria. A disease characterized by thirst and by a persistently excess- 
ive flow of watery urine. 

Porosity. The state of having pores. 

Portal Veins. The large veins entering the liver at the transverse fissure 
and bringing to it the blood from the digestive tract and the spleen. 

Prognosis. The foreknowledge of the course of a disease drawn from a 
consideration of its signs and symptoms. 

Proliferation. Reproduction of similar forms, both normal and morbid, 
but especially applied to cell-genesis. 

Propagation. Reproduction. 

Prophylaxis. The art of guarding against disease. The observation of 
the rules necessary to the preservation of health, or the prevention of 
disease. 

Proteid. Any one of a class of complex, nitrogenous, levorotatory 
organic compounds forming the essential part of animal and vege- 
table tissues. 

Protozoa. The name for the primary type of lowest division of the 
animal kingdom. 



Glossary. 465 



Psoriasis. A cutaneous disease, characterized by a rough, scaly cuticle, 
continuous, or in separate, irregular patches, generally with fissures 
of the skin, and occurring especially on the extensor surfaces of 
the body. 

Psychoses. Disturbances of the mind. 

Ptosis. A falling, or prolapsus, especially applied to a drooping of the 
upper eyelid due to paralysis of the levator palpebrae superioris 
muscle. 

Puerperium. The state or period of confinement of a pregnant female. 

Pyrexia. The state of fever. 

Radicle. An ultimate division of a vessel or nerve. 
Retrograde-metamorphosis. The process by which somewhat complex 

bodies are broken up into simpler ones, and in the end into waste 

products. 

Salicylate. A salt of salicylic acid. 

Sebaceous. Fatty. Suety. Applied to glands which secrete an oily 
matter resembling suet. 

Segmentation. The process of division by which the fertilized ovum 
divides before differentiation into layers occurs. 

Sella Turcica. The depression within the three clinoid processes of the 
sphenoid bone, lodging the pituitary body. 

Senility. Old age. 

Septicemia. Blood poisoning. Fever and prostration due to the entrance 
of pyogenic or other micro-organisms or ptomaines into the cir- 
culation. 

Serum. The clear liquid which separates in the clotting of blood from 
the clot and the corpuscles, or any clear liquid resembling it. 

Skeletal. Of or relating to a skeleton. _ 

Spermatorrhea. An involuntary emission of semen without copulation. 

Spermin. A preparation of the prostate gland and testicle of animals. 

Subcutaneous. Situated, introduced, or living just under the skin. 

Sudorific. Inducing or causing sweat. 

Suppurative. Producing or discharging pus. 

Tabes Dorsalis. Locomotor ataxia. A chronic disease due to degen- 
eration and sclerosis of the posterior columns of the spinal cord, 
and marked by lightning-like flashes of pain and a peculiar gait. 

Tachycardia. A disturbed condition of the heart's action in which great 
acceleration of the pulse occurs. 

Tertiary. Third degree. 

Theobromine. A bitter, colorless, crystalline powder, capable of form- 
ing salts with acids, and sparingly soluble in hot water. 

Thymus. A bilobed, elongated body which develops from the entoderm 
of the last two visceral clefts, and is situated in the neck and thorax 
of the newborn child. 

Thyroid Gland. A reddish organ, one of the so-called ductless glands, 
giving rise to one or more internal secretions and siftated in front 
of and on either side of the trachea. 

Thyroidectomy. Excision of the thyroid gland or of its cartilage. 

Tonicity. The state of normal tone or tension. 

Tortuosity. Bent or twisted irregularly. 

Transudation. The morbid passing or oozing of blood, or other fluid, 
practically unaltered, through the pores of the skin or membranes. 

Trypanosome. One of any species of trypanosoma. The organism is a 
spindle-shaped, more or less elongated, protoplasmic body, containing 
two chromatic masses, a centrosome generally placed at the posterior 
end and a larger nucleus mesiallv situated, with a flagelltim and an 
undulatory membrane, starting from the centrosome, and running 
along the protoplasmic body. 

3Q 



466 Glossary. 



Trypanosomiasis. A diseased condition produced by trypanosomes. 

Trypsin. A ferment of pancreatic juice which has the power of con- 
verting proteids into peptones, best in alkaline solution, but also 
active in neutral solution. 

Unesthetic. Not having lost sensation. 

Unossified. Not having formed bone. 

Urea. A white, transparent, crystallizable solid, the principal solid 

constituent of urine. 

Uric Acid. A crystalline substance obtained from urine. 
Urotoxic. Relating to the poisonous elements of the urine. 
Urticaria. "Hives." An exanthematous fever characterized by an 

eruption like the elevations produced on the skin by the sting of a 

nettle, and attended with burning and itching. 

Vascularization. The act or process of becoming vascular, as in neo- 
plasms, thrombi, etc., or furnished with new blood-vessels. 

Vasodilatation. Widening of the walls of the blood-vessels; admitting 
more blood to the periphery. 

Vermicular. Worm-like. 

Viscosity. Adhesiveness. 



INDEX. 



Abderhalden, 333, 336. 

Abelard, 43. 

Abelmann, 447. 

Abelous, 161. 

Achard, 204, 286. 

Acne, microbes in, 213. 

Acton, 391. 

Adami, 9, 150, 156. 

Adcock, Sir Hugh, 43. 

Adler and Hensel, 162. 

Adler, Isaac, 107, 169, 366. 

Adler, Max, 322. 

Adrenals and circulatory system, 

hygiene of, 164. 
adrenal hypersecretion, 165. 
adrenals and cardiac nerves, 164. 
agencies, harmful, to avoid, 166. 
arteriosclerosis, 164, 165. 
causes of, 165. 

high blood-pressure and, 164. 
and kidney disease, 165. 

blood-test for, 165. 
preventives of, 168. 
atheroma, 164. 
mental emotions, 165. 
sexual glands, 165. 
thyroid gland, 166. 
tobacco a stimulant of, 427. 
Aeschbacher, 431. 

Age, old, blood-drinking for, 332. 
commandments for, 455. 
milk diet for. See Diet, milk. 
premature, from alcohol, 352. 
prevention and treatment of, 

arsenic, 426. 
for women, 427. 
for sexual glands, 429. 
in mineral waters, 428. 
gland, thyroid, 434. 
iodides for, 431. 

for arteriosclerosis, 431. 
iron, 429. 

for sexual glands, 429. 
kidney extracts, 445. 
ovarian extracts, 440. 
pancreatic extracts, 445. 
prostatic extracts, 445. 
spermin, 444. 
testicular extracts, 441. 
value of vegetarian diet to pre- 
vent, 311. 
Air, close, 272. 

fresh, automobiling for, 266. 
forests, 267. 



Air, mountain, 266. 
indoor, results of, 277. 
outdoor, benefits of, 277. 
vitiated, 264. 

Albertoni, 35, 86, 141, 142. 
Albuminuria from constipation, 202. 
Alcohol habit, cause and preven- 
tion of, 356. 

gland, thyroid, exhaustion of, 
as cause of drunkenness, 
357. 

glands, sexual, and, 360. 
preventive, 361. 
treatment of, 361. 
ovarian extracts, 361. 
thyroid, 361. 

immunity to large doses of, 356. 
persons easily affected by, 359. 
quantities, large, effects of, 350. 
age, old, premature, 352. 
arteriosclerosis, 350. 
brain, 350. 
delirium tremens, 353. 

progeny of, 353. 
epileptics, 353. 
genealogy, a terrible, 353. 
glands, ductless, 351. 
liver, 351. 
kidneys, 351. 
pituitary, 351. 
sexual, 351. 
thyroid, 352. 
heart muscles, 350. 
insanity, 350. 

and crime, 351. 
in tropical climates, 353. 
on children, 354. 
on thyroid gland, 357, 358. 
quantities, large, immunity to, 

357, 358. 

resistance, diminution, 351. 
diseases, nervous, 352. 
fever, yellow, 352. 
myxoedema, 352. 
of powers of, 352. 
pneumonia, 352. 
scrofulosis, 352. 
tuberculosis, 352. 
uses of, 347. 

as a preservative of tissues, 348. 
as a stimulant, 348. 

circulatory apparatus, 348, 

349. 
nervous system, 348. 

(467) 



468 



Index. 



Alcohol, uses of, as a stimulant, ner- 
vous system, wine, 348. 
beer, 348. 
brandy, 349. 
disadvantage, 349. 
for snake poison, 358. 
least injurious, 349. 
longevity, 350, 355. 
most injurious, 349. 
overabundance, effect of, 348. 
tonic, 349. 
whiskey, 349. 
wine, 348, 349. 
Allbutt, Clifford, 406. 
Amato, 80. 
Amberg, 164. 
Anderson, Mrs., 105. 
Ansele, 442. 

Appearance, youthful, hints on, 449. 
baths, 454. 
diet, 453. 

disposition, cheerful, 450. 
drugs, 451. 
exercise, 450, 454. 
glands, sexual, 452. 
hair, 452. 

and thyroid gland, 453. 
skin, care of, 449. 
slenderness, 453. 
teeth, care of, 451. 
Appendicitis. See Intestines. 
Arloing, 212, 256. 

Arteriosclerosis, etiology, 165, 167. 
diet, 165. 
coffee, 165. 
meat, 165. 
tea, 165. 
diseases, infectious, 165. 

syphilis, 165. 
in brain workers, 423. 
poisons, 165. 
alcohol, 165. 
lead, 165. 
mercury, 165. 
tobacco, 165. 
preventives of, 168. 

adrenals, reduction of activity 

of, 168. 

blood, viscosity of, 168. 
diet, 168. 
exercise, 168. 
thyroid, increase of activity of, 

168. 

Atwater, 287, 348. 
Aubert, 209. 
Aubertin, 161. 

Baelz, 283. 
Baldwin, 39, 394. 
Ballet and Enriquez, 27. 
Bamossi, 151, 



Bang, 325. 

Basch, 169. 

Baumann, 91, 118, 152, 323, 431. 

Bayon, 5, 23, 98. 

Beck, Charles, 414. 

Bedclothing, 229. 

Behring, 326, 327. 

Benda, 4. 

Benedict, 287, 348. 

Berger, 18. 

Bernard and Bigart, 161. 

Bernard, Claude, 125, 169, 335, 391, 

439. 

Bertrand, 427. 
Besancon, 334. 
Bianchini, 298. 
Bickel, 339, 340, 341, 344. 
Bier, 337. 
Binz, 369, 371. 
Bircher, 392. 
Blood as food, 333, 337. 
chemicals in, 335. 
experiments with, 337. 
ferments in, 335. 
immunizing substances in, 336. 
iron in, 333. 
in drugs, 333. 
in food, 333. 
lack of, in chlorosis, 333. 

in anaemia, 333. 
organic and inorganic, 333. 
blood, 334. 
best, 335. 
eggs, 334. 

nuclein of eggs, 333. 
spinach, 334. 
ox, 336. 
pigs', 335, 336. 
extracts in, 335. 
puddings, 335. 
sausages, 335, 336. 
transfusion, dangers of, 337. 
Blum, 5, 9, 22, 35, 86, 96, 139, 142, 

145, 318, 329, 375, 431. 
Blumenkranz, 232, 241. 
Blumenthal and Jacob'i, 83. 
Boas, 202. 
Bocci, 153. 
Boerhaave, 425. 
Boix, 153. 
Bokenham, 9, 150. 
Bonardi, 56. 
Bonnamour, 161. 
Bordet, 134. 
Borylac, 162. 
Bosse, 444. 
Bottger, 364. 
Boubnoff, 258. 

Bouchard, 142, 153, 154, 371. 
Bouchard and Hanot, 156. 
Bouchut, 298. 



Index. 



469 



Bouin, 442. 

Boverie and Loeper, 162. 
Breathing, deep, 267. 
benefits of, 269. 
centra-indications, 269. 
nasal, 270. 
Breisacher, Leo, 5, 9, 22, 138, 145, 

318, 329. 
Brieger, 34, 172. 
Brissaud, 311. 
Brown, 105. 
Brown-Sequard, 8, 32, 125, 159, 198, 

391, 410, 442, 443, 444, 

445. 
Brunton, Sir Lauder, 9, 150, 169, 

245, 268, 366. 
Buchner, 134. 
Buddha, 396. 
Bukojemsky, 444. 
Bunge, 204, 205, 210, 285, 286, 297, 

305, 306, 307, 333, 335, 

336, 337, 365, 368, 370, 

430. 
Burghart, 440. 

Camerer, 238. 

Campbell, 111. 

Campbell, Harry, 268, 343. 

Camus, 445. 

Carrion, 31. 

Casselli, 31. 

Cecca, 103. 

Celibacy, 402. 

Celsus, 256. 

Charcot, 84, 96, 257, 415. 

Charrin, 21, 140, 160, 161, 323. 

Chittenden, 282, 283. 

Christern, 371. 

Christiani, 438. 

Chroback, 441. 

Circulatory system and adrenals, 

hygiene of, 164. 
Cirrhosis, hepatic, production of, 

1 3d. 

Clothing, rational, 219. (See Skin, 

Hygiene of.) 

Cohendy, Michel, 185, 186. 
Cold, to prevent, 233, 278. 

feet. See Feet, 
Combe, 7, 102, 184, 186. 
Constipation, habitual, prevention 

and treatment of, 175. 
conditions, associated, in 

women, 176. 
diet for, 178. 
drugging for, 190. 
emotions, effect of, 175. 
fermentation, 188. 
glands, ductless, 176. 
sexual, 176. 

hygiene of, 176. 



Constipation, habitual, nerves, in- 
testinal, 176. 
splanchnics, 176. 
prevention of, 176. 
diet, 176, 178. 
cereals, 176, 177. 
fruits, 177. 
meat, 176. 
milk, 178. 
special, 178. 
vegetables, 177. 
thyroid, effect of, 175. 
treatment, 179. 

cascara sagrada, 180. 
electricity, 179. 
enemata, 179. 
hydrotherapeutics, 179. 
laxatives, 180. 
massage, 179. 
mineral waters, 180. 
rectum, irrigation of, 179. 
rhubarb, 180. 
vagus, action of, 175. 
Cornaro, 292, 401. 
Cornil, 32, 47. 
Crispino, 5, 23, 98. 
Cunningham, 51. 
Cyon, 31. 

Danilewsky, 281. 

Darier, 165. 

Darnecy, 41. 

D'Arsonval, 32, 443, 444. 

Delcour, 135, 136, 196. 

De 1'Enclos, Ninon, 54. 

Dellamare, 93, 167. 

Demange, 110. 

Demange and Oettinger, 96. 

De Manasseine, Marie, 368. 

Demme, 353. 

Denison, Charles, 260. 

De Quervain, 5, 23, 25, 98. 104. 352, 

357. 

Dercum, 44, 110. 
Determann, 168, 320. 
Dettweiler, 310. 
Dever, 337. 
Diabetes, opium in, 356. 

sleepiness and, 376. 
Diamare and Kuliabko, 78. 
Diet, blood. See Blood. 
for habitual constipation, 178. 
meat, avoidance of, in aged, 323. 

in infancy, 323. 
boiled, 322. 
canned, 322. 

preservatives in, 322. 
catharsis for, 324. 
dangers of, 317. 

heaviness following, 317. 
in disease, 317. 



470 



Index. 



Diet, meat, dangers of, nervous 

disorders, 317. 
results of, 317, 324. 
absence of, from, 321. 
in diabetes, 320. 
in gout, 320. 
on ductless glands, 317. 
on kidneys, 319. 
on pancreas, 319. 
on uric acid formation. 320. 
fresh, 322. 
moderate, 322. 

on circulatory apparatus, 320. 
putrefaction, 324. 

acids for, 324. 
roasted, 322. 
water and, 323. 
white, 322. 

milk, additions to, 329. 
advantages of, 330. 

for old age, 330, 332, 335. 
antiseptic action of, 331. 
asses', 332. 
boiled, 327. 
digestibility of, 329. 
ease of, on kidneys, 330. 
on liver, 330. 
on stomach, 330. 
for athyroidea, 329. 
goats', 332. 
human, 331. 
ideal, 328, 331. 
in childhood, 330. 
kefir, 329. 
longevity by, 329. 
of thyroidectomized goats, 326. 
raw, 327. 
secretions of ductless glands 

in, 325. 
substances in, 325, 326. 

in acid fermented, 328. 
suppression of myxcedema by, 

jZj. 

yogurth, 329. 
vegetarian, advantages of, 309, 

310, 311. 
age, old, value to prevent, 311, 

312. 

conditions improved by, 321. 
disadvantages of, 309, 312, 313, 

314. 

anatomical, 309. 
diseases avoided by, 310, 311. 
diseases from, 313, 314. 
condition for, 314. 
predisposition to, 314. 
lack of obesity from, 311. 
results of, 315. 
to reduce uric acid, 311. 
with proteids and fats, 309, 
310. 



Diet, vegetarian, with proteids and 

fats, in disease, 310. 
Disease a self-defense, 419. 

benefits of, 420. 

early recognition of, 421. 

treatment, 421. 
Dubois, 446. 
Duclaux, 256. 
Du Perron, 402. 
Dupuytren, 42. 
Diirig, 37. 
Dwellings, situations for city, 264. 

Easterbrook, 27. 

Eating, appetite, aesthetics for, 342. 
checking, 340. 
conditions producing, 340. 
lost, in the sedentary, 340. 
normal, 340. 
stimulation for, 341. 
bouillon, 341. 
exercise, 342, 344, 345. 
hors d'ceuvres, 341. 
smorgasbord, 341. 
tongue washing, 341. 
vinegar and water, 341. 
dinner, rest before and after, 341. 
food, most digestible, 345. 
butter, 345. 
cereals, 345. 
fat, 345. 
meat, 345. 
vegetables, 345. 
gastric juice, adequate supply of, 

339. 

augmenting, 339. 
mentally, 339, 340. 
sight, 339. 
smell, 339. 
taste, 340. 
hygiene of, 339. 
insalivation, 342. 

advantages of, 343. 
meals, companions at, 342. 
drinking with, 344. 
time for, 344. 
reading while eating, 342. 

exceptions, 342. 
saliva, secretion of, 342. 
stimulation of, 342. 
mastication, 342. 
teeth and, 344. 
Eberson, 414. 
Echlin, 374. 
Eckermann, 53. 
Edgreen, 165, 169. 
Edmunds, Walter, 22, 35, 96, 140, 

373, 388, 438. 
Edwards, 256. 
Ehrmann, 453. 
Eiselsberg, 5, 96, 167. 



Index. 



471 



Eisenheart, 47. 
Elberskirchen, Johanna, 397. 
Emden, 152. 
English, 202. 
Erb, 396. 

Erdheim, 19, 91, 92, 144. 
Espagno, 105. 
Esser, 367. 

Ewald, 3, 90, 93, 172, 290, 434, 435. 
Exercise, advantages of, 251. 
benefits of, 244. 
breathing, 262. 
effects of, 244. 
massage, antiquity of, 245. 
by self, 247. 
effects of, 245, 246. 
on heart, 246. 
Harvey, 245. 
sports, 247. 
best, 248. 
climbing, 250. 

for heart trouble, 251. 
Oertel's treatment, 251. 
contra-indications, 247. 
cycling, 249. 
dilatation of heart, 248. 
effects of, 247. 
horseback riding, 248. 
riding, 249. 
running, 250. 
Swedish gymnastics, 245. 
Ling, Peter, 245. 
Mitchell, S. Weir, 245. 
to induce perspiration, 239. 
treatment, Nauheim, 246. 
walking, 249. 

Farwick, 336. 
Fassin, 28, 136. 
Feet, cleanliness of, 234. 
cold, 252. 
cause, 252. 
circulation, 252, 254. 

senile gangrene, 254. 
clothing, 252. 
shoes, 252. 
socks, 253. 
treatment, 253, 254. 
exercise, 253. 
massage, 253. 
rubbing, 253. 
Fehling, 14. 
Ferranini, 164. 
Finsen, 256, 257, 258, 261. 
Fishel, 202. 
Fisher, Emil, 364. 
Flamini, Mario, 325. 
Fleischer, 46. 

Fletcher, Horace, 282, 292, 343. 
Flexner, 311. 
Flourens, 50. 



Food, blood. See Blood. 
carbohydrates, 301. 
cellulose, 308. 

advantage of, 308. 
vegetables, 301. 
diet, rational, 304. 
disadvantages of, 302. 
fats in, 301. 
leguminous, 301. 
albumin in, 301. 
butter with, 304. 
composition of, 301. 
containing iron, 306, 307. 
minerals, 305. 
lime, 305. 
iron, 305. 
potatoes, 304. 
rice, value of, 302. 
digestibility, 289, 290, 291. 
cold, 291. 
hot, 291. 
in aged, 290. 
in robust, 289. 
hygiene, 280. 

albumin, 283, 284. 
bouillon, 287. 
carbohydrates, 281, 284. 
condiments, 286. 
harmfulness of, 286. 
sauces, 286. 
vinegar, 286. 
diet, model, 292, 293. 
eating, excessive, 280. 
experiments, 282, 283. 
fats, 281, 284. 

feeding, over-, dangers of, 280. 
principle of, 280. 
under-, dangers of, 280. 
groups of, 281. 
in pregnancy, 285. 
iron, 286. 
keynote, 291. 
minerals, 285. 
nutritive value of, 281. 
potatoes, 286. 
proteid, 281, 284. 
rice, 283, 286. 
salt, 285. 

alkali, 286. 
soup, 287. 
stimulants, 287. 
alcohol, 287. 
beer, 287. 
whiskey, 288. 
wine, 288. 
cocoa, 289. 
coffee, 289. 
tea, 289. 
tobacco, 289. 
three kinds, uses of, 284. 
time for meals, -292. 









472 



Index. 



Food, hygiene, water, 285. 
hard, 287. 
in foodstuffs, 287. 
with meals, 287. 
most digestible, 345. 
preparation of, 289. 
proteid, 294. 
albumin, 294. 
animals, examination of 

slaughtered, 295. 
butter, 298, 303. 
cheese, 298. 

digestion of, 299. 
putrefaction of, 299. 
eggs, 299. 
fish, 296. 
meat, 294. 

composition of, 294. 
cold storage, 295. 
extractives, 295. 
milk, 296. 

composition of, 296, 297, 298. 
most perfect, 300. 
oysters, 295. 
quantity of, 289. 
sausages, 296. 
too rich, 289. 

diseases caused by, 289. 
weather requirements of, 289. 
Fordyce, 330. 
Forster, 305. 
Forsyth, 318, 330. 
Forsyth, D., 22. 
Franklin, Benjamin, 260, 281. 
Fraser, 151. 
Frerich, 83. 
Fries, 167. 
Frithe, 367. 
Frohlich, 18. 

Galeotti and Lindemann, 22, 140. 

Gall, 41. 

Gamier, 13, 23, 27, 31, 57, 58, 141, 

314, 431, 438. 
Gasne and Laude, 13. 
Gassenghi, 30. 
Gauthier, 14, 427. 
Geist, 334. 
Generali, 144. 
Georgiewski, 24, 27. 
Gibson, 432. 
Gibson, G. A., 4, 435. 
Gilbert, 8, 84. 
Gilbert and Carnot, 446. 
Gillet, 298. 
Glaesner, 152. 
Gland. See individual glands, by 

name. 

thyroid, administration of, skin 
eruptions following, 213. 
a function of, 139. 



Gland, thyroid, alcohol and chloro- 
form on, 357. 
and alcohol, 356, 357. 
and temperature, 237. 
death following extirpation of, 

138. 
degeneration of, in alcoholics, 

352. 

exhaustion of, 357, 358. 
extirpation of, effects of, 167. 
hyperactivity as cause of drunk- 
enness, 357. 
in infants, 323. 

maintaining life after extirpa- 
tion of, 139. 

milk as stimulant of, 330. 
results of disease of, on other 

organs, 141. 
intestines, 143. 
kidneys, 142, 143. 
liver, 141, 142. 
sleeplessness and, 369. 
Glands, ductless, effects of meat on, 

317. 
secretions of, in blood, 335. 

in milk, 325. 

parathyroids, influence on con- 
vulsions, 144. 

sexual, abuse of, 390, 391, 392. 
arsenic for, 429. 
diseases of, 389. 

frequency of, 391. 
hygiene of, 389. 
hyperactivity of, 213. 
inactivity of, 393. 

treatment of, in unmarried, 

398. 

intercourse, too frequent, 390. 
interrupted, 392. 
iron for, 429. 
marriage, age for, 392. 
sudorific, 215, 226. 
thyroid, destruction of poisonous 

products through, 138. 
Gley, 3, 142, 144, 374, 445. 
Goethe, 43, 53. 
Goldscheider, 212. 
Gombault, 84. 
Gouget, 199. 

Gout, skin diseases in, 213. 
Graffenberger, 257. 
Grawitz, 257, 313, 334, 337, 427, 430. 
Greenfield, W. S., 21. 
Groedel, 164. 
Gruber and Durham, 134. 
Grundzach, 185. 
Guerrini, 31. 
Guieysse, 99. 
Guilbert, Yvette, 101. 
Gumprecht, 154. 
Gunzburg, 200. 



Index. 



473 



Gymnastics. See Exercise. 

Haig, 131, 242, 288, 299, 320, 321, 

364. 

Halck, 83. 
Hall, Walker, 131, 288, 302, 310, 

320. 

Hallion, 31. 
Hamel, 268. 
Hanot and Boit, 156. 
Hanseman, 77. 
Harnack, 430. 

Harvey, 49, 50, 245, 455, 456. 
Haiisermann, 333. 

Heating, artificial, air, indoor, ef- 
fects of, 277. 

air, outdoor, effects of, 277. 
cold, catching, avoidance of, 

278. 

from warm rooms, 277. 
diseases, respiratory, 278. 
for old people, 275. 
for young people, 275. 
hot water, 279. 
hygiene of, 275. 
method of, most rational, 276. 

fireplace, open, 276. 
railways, overheated, 278. 
steam, injuriousness of. 278, 

279. 

effects after, 279. 
mitigation of, 279. 
radiators, dusty, 279. 
tonsillitis from, 278. 
temperature, high, 275. 

without ventilation, 275. 
indoor, best, 276. 
Hegar, 46. 

Heger and Buys, 150. 
Heger, Paul, 149. 
Heinz, 431. 
Hemmeter, 149, 202. 
Hemp, 326. 
Hensel, 107, 169. 
Hercod, 354. 
Heredity and the ductless glands, 

352. 

Hertoghe, 5, 12, 13, 14, 15, 25, 29, 
37, 58, 68, 83, 95, 102, 104, 
126, 352, 357, 434, 440. 
Herter, 185. 
Hesse, Walter, 326. 
Heyn, F., 120. 
Hippocrates, 256. 
Hirsch, 444. 
Hirschfeld, 152. 
Hochenegg, 44. 
Hofmeister, 4, 104. 
Holm, 259. 
Horsley, Sir Victor, 3, 90, 91, 93, 



Houssaye, 318. 

Huchard, 107, 168, 169, 199. 

Hueppe, 353. 

Hufeland, 50, 260, 288, 337, 367, 424. 

Hugo, Victor, 54. 

Huler, 202. 

Humphrey, 324, 355. 

Hun, 142. 

Hunt, 23, 141. 

Hutchison, 131, 325. 

Hutchison, R., 363, 364. 

Ibsen, 54. 
Inada, 168. 

Indian, longevity of, 265. 
Insomnia. See also Sleep. 
treatment of, 384. 
medical, 386. 
milk of thyroidectomized 

goats, 388. 
serum of thyroidectomized 

goats, 387. 
preventive, 384. 
bath, 385. 
hygiene, 384. 
room, 385. 

Intestines, hygiene of, 182. 
acid, lactic, 184, 185, 186. 
bacillus maya, 184. 
yoghurt, 184. 
albumins, prepared, 183. 

for the aged, 183. 
appendicitis, 192. 
adenoids, 196. 

cause and prevention of, 192. 
causes of, 194, 195. 
constipation, 194. 
exercise, 194. 
psoas, influence of, 192. 
test for, 194, 195. 
tonsils, 195. 

assimilation in the aged, 183. 
bowel movement, residue after, 

191. 

constipation, 188. See Constipa- 
tion. 

and fermentation, 188. 
appendicitis from, 191. 
drugging for, 190. 
corsets, effects of, 190. 
defense, natural, 184. 
liver, 184. 
thyroid, 184. 
diet, 186. 
fats, 186. 
cheese, 186. 
diseases of, coincident with 

stomach disorders, 182, 
drinks, ice-cold r 187. 
enemata, 191. 
faecal impaction, 191. 



474 



Index. 



Intestines, hygiene of, food, quality 

of, 187. 
foods, 184. 
injurious, 187. 
canned, 187. 
fish, 187. 
fruits, 187. 
meats, 187. 
oysters, 187. 
preservatives, 187. 
sausages, 187. 
unmasticated, 182. 

fermentation of, 182. 
poisonous effects, 184. 
glands, sexual, 189. 
habits, 189. 
purgation, 188. 
putrefaction, 183, 184, 186. 

meat, 186. 
water, lack of, 191. 
Iron. See Blood, iron in. 
in drugs, 333. 
in food, 333. 
lack of, in anaemia, 333. 

in chlorosis, 333. 
organic and inorganic, 333. 

Jaffe, 202. 
Javal, 286. 
Jayle, 104. 
'eandelize, 13, 92, 141, 142, 144. 

ersoni, 44. 

ollin, 323, 431. 

osue, 5, 162, 163. 

Kant, 415. 

Keill, James, 51. 

Keller, 205. 

Kende, Maurice, 354. 

Kidney disease, test for, 165. 

Kidneys, benefits of sweating upon, 

242. 
hygiene of, 203. 

alcohol, 205. 

casts, hyaline, 203. 

clothing, 208, 231. 

diet, lacto-vegetarian, 204. 

diseases, infectious, 206. 

drugs, 206. 

importance of, 215. 

intestines, 207. 

liver, 204. 

meat, 204. 

milk, 204. 

rhinitis and, 207. 

rice, 205. 

salt, 204, 215. 

sauces, 205. 

skin, 207, 215. 

spices, 205. 

tea, 205. 

tonsillitis and, 207. 



Kidneys, hygiene of, water, 206. 
mineral, 206. 

internal secretion of, 198. 

milk an ideal food for, 331. 

diet and, 330, 331. 
Kisch, 46, 391, 392, 395, 398. 
Kishi, 96, 140, 142. 
Kitasato, 34. 
Klausner, 353. 
Kliffel, 80. 
Kobler, 202. 
Koch, 151, 373. 
Koch and Kraepelin, 363. 
Kocher, Albert, 24, 431. 
Konig, 299. 
Konig, T., 336. 
Koranyi, Alexander, 205. 
Kossel, 333. 
Kovesi, 205, 241, 242. 
Krafft-Ebing, 396. 
Kraut, C, 336. 
Kreis, 371. 
Kretschy, 46. 
Kruger, 34. 

Laache, 126, 434. 

Labbe, 334. 

Labbe, Marcel, 311. 

Laitinen, 353, 354. 

Landau, 46, 441. 

Langhans, 92. 

Langlois, 159, 160, 161. 

Lanz, 21, 22, 24, 27, 57, 72, 140, 196, 

326, 388, 442, 445. 
Latzko, 104. 
Laulanie, 142. 
Launois, 95, 99, 384. 
Lautenbach, 150. 
Lefas, 80. 
Legrain, 352. 
Legry and Renault, 13. 
Lehman and Strassmann, 46. 
Lehmann, 306. 
Leichtenstein, 202. 
Lemaire, 165. 
Lenkey, 258. 
Leube, 241. 

Leuret and Hoffmann, 41. 
Levi, Leopold, 408. 
Levy, Magnus, 238, 323, 374. 
Leyden, 47. 
Liebermeister, 233. 
Life, indoor, 262. 

effects of, 263. 

examples of, 262. 
married, as a means of morality, 
401. 

children in, 401. 

disease, venereal and, 401. 

happiness in, 400. 

longevity, 403. 



Index. 



475 



Life, married, meals and, 402. 

means for prolonging life, 400. 
sickness and, 401. 
open-air, 262. 

effects of, 262, 263. 
examples of, 262, 267. 
Ling, Peter, 245. 
Lingard, 32. 
Liver, hygiene of, 155. 
bathing, 158. 
climates, hot, 157. 

hypertrophied liver, 157. 
diet, alcohol, 155. 
best, 157, 158. 
condiments, 155. 
meat, 155. 
milk, 155, 157. 
spices, 155. 
stimulants, 155, 157. 
vegetable, 155, 157, 158. 
water, 157. 

milk diet and, 330, 331. 
other organs and, 155. 
intestines, 155. 
pancreas, 156. 
stomach, 156. 
Livon, 31. 
Loeper, 286. 

Loewy, 18, 33, 233, 441, 444. 
Loewy, A. and Y., 266. 
Loewy and Richter, 97. 
Lohrisch, 188. 
Lois el, 42, 393. 
Longevity, alcohol and, 350. 

greatest, 266. 
Longfellow, 125. 
Lucas-Championniere, 46. 
Ludwig, 244. 
Luksch, 161. 
Lunin, 305. 
Luntz, 266. 
Lussana, 150, 151. 
Luther, 391, 396. 
Luttje, 200. 
Luzatti, 298. 

Macallum, 144. 

Mackenzie, 142. 

Mackenzie, Hector, 434, 435. 

Mac Means, 352. 

Madelung, 19. 

Magnus-Levy, 17, 95. 

Mahomet, 96. 

Manfur, 298. 

Marbe, 28. 

Mariagalli and Negri, 46. 

Marriage, age for, 392. 

Marti, 257. 

Martin, 353. 

Masey, 248. 

Massage. See Exercise. 



Meat. See Diet. 

Mendel, Lafayette, 323. 

Mering and Minkowski, 77. 

Merklen, 298. 

Merschejewski, 46. 

Metschnikoff, 47, 51, 53, 98, 112, 124, 

184, 185, 329. 

Metschnikoff and Matschinski, 32. 
Meyer, E., 8, 198, 447. 
Milk. See Diet. 

of thyroidectomized goats, 326. 
raw, for stomach, liver, and kid- 
neys, 330. 
Mind, hygiene of, 404. 

arteriosclerosis in, 423. 
brain workers, advice to, 423. 
bedtime, 424. 
exercise, 424. 
mealtime, 424. 
moderation, 423, 424. 
outdoor life, 424, 425. 
rest, 423. 
diseases from, 404. 

diabetes, 404, 405. 
emotions, strong, death from, 

404, 407. 

organs affected by, 405. 
adrenals, 405. 
hair, 406. 
liver, 406. 
pancreas, 406. 
pituitary, 405. 
sexual glands, 406, 409. 
stomach, 411. 
thyroid, 405, 408, 409. 
ideational channels, 411. 

causes of depressed, 411, 412. 
enlivening, 413. 

life, religious belief for pro- 
longing, 414. 
Cause, the great, 416. 
effect on anaesthesia, 415. 
faith, 414. 
Minervini, 93. 
Mingazzini, 39, 394. 
Minkowski, 80. 
Minnich, 167. 
Mintz, 259. 

Mitchell, S. Weir, 245. 
Moebius, 25, 41, 42, 43, 53, 357, 387. 
Mohammed, 391. 
Mohn, 258. 
Moleschott, 256. 
Moliere, 199. 
Morat and Doyon, 83. 
Moritz, 248. 
Moro, 298. 
Morvan, 7, 102. 
Moschini, 161. 
Moses, 391. 
Mosse, 304, 325, 370, 391, 443. 



476 



Index. 



Miiller, 168. 

Miiller, Friedlich, 206. 

Muller, P., 47, 168. 

Murray, 71. 

Murray, G., 21, 126, 142, 434. 

Napoleon, 43. 

Narbuth, 18. 

Naunyn, 84, 248, 334, 404. 

Nehring, 95, 374. 

Neisson, 350. 

Nencky, 152. 

Neugebauer, 392. 

Neusser, 85, 142. 

Nicholas, 161. 

Nobecourt, 298. 

Nuclein for yolk of eggs, 333. 

Nuttall and Thierfelder, 170. 

Obersteiner, 368, 371. 

Obolenski, 446. 

Oertel, 251. 

Oeruni, 257. 

Oesterreicher, 56. 

Offer, 322. 

Offerhaus, 192, 193. 

Old age, milk diet for. See Diet, 

milk. 

Oliver and Schafer, 5, 31, 69. 
Opie, 77, 80. 

Opium in diabetes, 356. 
Oppenheim, 160, 434. 
Oppenheim and Loeper, 160. 
Ord, 7, 96, 102. 
Ortner, 212. 
Oser, 169. 
Oswald, 91, 325. 
Ottfried, 168. 
Ouspenski, 444. 
Ovaries, influence of, on the blood, 

334. 
Owen, Sir Isambard, 350. 

Paris, Matthew, 45. 

Parr, 329. 

Parr, Thomas, autopsy on, 455. 

Pasha, Emin, 353. 

Paterson, 452. 

Paton, James, 221. 

Pavy, 19. 

Pawlow, 69, 77, 339, 340, 344, 406. 

Pel, 21, 58, 105, 106, 405, 456. 

Pelikan, 45. 

Penzoldt, 200. 

Perrando, 13, 57, 58. 

Perrin, 141. 

Pettenkoffer, 209, 221, 263, 273. 

Pfliiger, 50, 456. 

Pigeolet, 392. 

Pilcz, 36, 374. 

Pineles, 4, 92, 111, 144, 167, 



Plato, 390. 
Plutarch, 107. 
Poehl, 33, 127, 443, 444. 
Poison, snake, alcohol for, 358. 
Politiman, 105. 
Pomeroy, 391. 
Poncet, 12. 
Posner, 306. 
Pottenger, 265. 
Pregl, 443. 

Products, poisonous, destroyed 
through thyroid and 
parathyroid glands, 138. 
thyroidectomy, effects of, 138. 
on animals, meat-fed, 138. 
on animals on meatless diet, 

138. 

on animals on milk diet, 138. 
toxic, destruction of, by adrenals, 

159. 

after adrenalectomy, 159. 
from muscular exercise, 368. 
immunizing constituent, 159. 
infectious diseases, 160. 
microbes, 160. 
poisons, microbic, 161. 
destruction of, by the liver, 149. 
albuminoids, 152. 
carbohydrates, 152. 
enlargement of liver, 153. 
excretion of, 150. 
bile, 150. 
urine, 153. 

hepatic cirrhosis, 153. 
reduction in liver disease, 

154. 

elimination of, through intes- 
tines, 170. 
constipation, 172, 202. 

internal, 173. 
faecal intoxications, 172. 
intestines, microbes in, 170. 

effect on liver, 170. 
purgation, regular, 173. 
secretions, antibacterial, 174. 
elimination of, through kid- 
neys, 197. 
albuminuria, 199. 

from constipation, 202. 
casts, urinary, 199. 
chloroform, 201. 
drugs, poisonous, alcohol 

and, 200. 
kidneys, internal secretion 

of, 198. 

liver and, 199. 
mercury, 201. 
mustard and, 200. 
pepper, 200. 

potassium chloride, 200. 
radishes, 200. 



Index. 



477 



Products, toxic, elimination of, 

salicylates, 201. 
tea, black, 200. 
thyroid and, 198. 
elimination of, through the 

skin, 209. 

carbonic acid, 209. 
perspiration, 210, 212. 
retention of, 211. 
skin, causes of diseases of, 

212. 

burns, 212. 
eruptions of, 213. 
glands of, 209. 
respiration through, 210. 
Prudden, 142. 
Prun-Hudden, 85. 
Puddings, blood, 335. 

Quarters, ill-ventilated, dangers of, 

271, 272. 
air of, 272. 

microbes in, 272. 
infectious diseases from, 272. 
persons, sickly, 271. 

unused to, 271. 
schoolrooms, 273. 
sleeping-room, 273. 
flowers in, 273. 
furnishings of, 273. 
ventilation of, 274. 
windows, open, 273. 
Queirolo, 212. 
Quincke, 156. 

Rechenberg, 283. 
Remlinger, 168. 
Renaut, 446. 
Ren on, 402. 
Renon and Delille, 31. 
Renon, Delille, and Azam, 32. 
Richter, P. I., 18, 33, 205, 441, 444. 
Rieger, 41. 
Rigand, 39, 393, 394. 
Riva, 337. 
Roese, 287, 305. 
Roger, 150, 153, 160, 314. 
Roger and Gamier, 5, 23, 98, 154. 
Rogowitsch, 4, 141, 374. 
Romberg, 165, 166, 168. 
Rooms, sleeping, 264. 
Rosenblath, 142. 
Rosenblatt and Jeandelize, 96. 
Rosenquist, 322. 
Rothschild, Baron Henry, 408. 
Roth-Schulz, 205, 241, 242. 
Rousseau, 41. 
Roux, 160. 
Rovighi, 149. 

Rubner, 233, 281, 284, 287, 288, 294, 
297, 301, 302, 303. 



Sainton, 374. 

Sajous, 2, 4, 9, 19, 21, 25, 28, 31, 32, 
33, 34, 35, 65, 68, 79, 85, 
92, 112, 117, 130, 136, 159, 
161, 162, 167, 313, 351, 
374, 376, 405, 427, 429, 
444. 

Salaskin and Zaleski, 153. 
Salmon, 374, 376. 
Sandstrom, 144. 
Sanquirico and Canales, 141. 
Sarbach, 352. 
Sasaki, 340. 
Sauerbeck, 77. 
Sausages, 335, 336. 
Savile, 349. 
Sawada, 164. 
Sawandowski, 26. 
Scharffenberg, 351. 
Schiff, 138, 150. 
Schmidt, 188, 306. 
Schmitz, 185. 

Schopenhauer, 124, 403, 413. 
Schottelius, 170. 
Schur and Wiesel, 165. 
Schwoner, 56. 
Sciolla, 141. 

Seglas and Vanquelin, 153. 
Senator, Hermann, 1, 8, 86, 168, 
172, 198, 199, 202, 203, 
319, 322, 444. 

Sexual glands, 165, 176, 351, 452. 
and emotions, 406, 409. 
spermin, 444. 
Shattock, 442. 

Shattock and Seeligmann, 442. 
Sherril, Edwin, S., 38. 
Siccard, 311. 
Singer, 185. 

Skin and kidneys, hygiene of, bath- 
ing, 231. 

baths, carbonic acid, 243. 
foot-, 234. 
cold, 234, 235. 
baths, sea, 235. 
heart in, 236. 
hot, 235. 
warm, 235. 

by means of perspiration, 237. 
composition of perspiration, 

238, 241. 

fur clothing, 237. 
circulation in, 231. 
massage, 233. 
rubbing, 233. 

diseases, etiology of, 212. 
eruptions, 213. 
acne, 213. 
from cheese, 213. 
from drugs, 213.. 
from oysters, 213. 



478 



Index. 



Skin eruptions, in diabetes, 213. 
in gout, 213. 
in Graves's disease, 213. 
in masturbation, 213. 
in menstruation, 213. 
in sexual abstinence, 213. 
pimples of chastity, 214. 
psoriasis, 214. 
dust, 231. 
elimination of toxic products 

through, 209. 

excretion by, 214, 232, 244. 
exfoliation, 231. 

pores, 231. 

perspiration, abundant, 238. 
baths, 240. 

for old people, 240. 
baths to induce, 239. 
electric, 239. 
exercise, 239. 
light, 239. 

effect on kidneys, 241. 
excessive, 238. 
salicylates for, 239, 243. 
soap, 231. 
water, 231. 

Skin, hygiene of, 215. 
advantages of, 218. 
armpits, 224. 

bathing, 216, 225, 240. (See 
also Skin and Kidneys, 
hygiene of, through bath- 
ing.) 

air, 217, 225. 
cold, 218, 225. 
foot-bath, 228, 234. 
for old people, 240. 
water, 216, 225. 
clothing, blue, 225, 258. 
bedclothing, 229. 
changing, 224. 
collar, starched, 224, 228. 

harmfulness of, 224. 
cotton, 221. 

advantages of, 221. 
dry, 223. 
fur, 237. 
gray, 225, 258. 
hats, 226. 

health, impediments to, 228. 
leather, 224, 227. 
light, 225. 

advantages of, 225. 
linen, 220, 221. 

starched, 224. 
loose, 220, 229. 
night-shirt, 229. 
overcoat, 225. 
porous, 219. 
pumps, 227. 



Skin, clothing, ramie, 221. 
rational, 219. 
rubbers, 225, 227, 228. 
sandals, 227. 
shoes, 227. 
canvas, 227. 
half-shoes, 227. 
slippers, 227. 
silk, 221. 
trousers, 229. 
wool, 219. 

drawbacks to, 219, 220. 
cold, catching, 225. 
glands, sudorific, 215, 226. 
importance of, 215. 
neck, 224. 
scalp, 226. 
soles, 224. 

Sleep and its val te, 368. 
adrenalin and, 369, 376. 
after dinner, 370. 
alcohol, 370. 
brain, anaemia and, 369. 

hyperaemia and, 369. 
cause of, 369. 

autointoxication, 371. 
control of, by thyroid gland, 369. 
death from loss of, 368. 
experiment of Mosso, 370. 
function of, 381. 
hygiene of, 377. 

brain, excitation of, 377. 
chamber, sleeping, 378. 
food, 378. 
hours of, 380. 
noise, 380. 
sleepiness, 373. 

gland, thyroid, 374. 
sleepiness, and insomnia, cause 

of, 372. 
sleeping sickness, 372. 

cause of, trypanosomiasis, 373. 
changes, pathological, 373. 
treatment, 373. 
Sleepiness and insomnia, treatment 

of, 383. 

treatment of, thyroid extract, 383. 
Sleeplessness, effects of, 382. 
Slowzoff, 150, 151. 
Smith, Bellingham, 442. 
Sneve, 212. 
Sobolew, 77. 
Socrates, 391, 424. 
Solomon, H., 447. 
Solon, 391. 
Sommerfeld, 340. 
Spallanzani, 211. 
Spangaro, Saverio, 51, 92, 442. 
Spillman and Etienne, 441. 
Spolverini, 298. 
Sports. See Exercise. 



Index. 



479 



Springer and Serbanesco, 13. 

Stedman, 445. 

Steinhaus, 80, 156. 

Stengel, 77. 

Stepanoff, 28. 

Stieda, 4, 374. 

Stimulants, 347, 362. See also 

Food. 

chocolate, 365. 
cocoa, 365. 
advantages of, 365. 
theobromin, 365. 
coffee, 364. 
black, 362. 
caffein, 364. 
effects of, 364. 
for digestion, 341, 342. 
tea, 362. 

and coffee, comparison of, 363. 

effects of, 362. 
good, 363. 
green, 362. 
thein, 363. 
tobacco, 366. 
nicotine, 366. 
effects of, 366. 
arteriosclerosis, 367. 
poisonous, 366. 
Stohmann, 281. 
Stomach, milk diet and, 330. 
Strassberger, 188. 
Strasser, 232, 241. 
Strauss, 204, 286. 

Strauss, H., 8, 198, 204, 241, 242, 289. 
Strumpell, 120. 
S mlight, action of, chemical, 256, 

257. 

therapeutic, 256. 
altitude, 258. 

bactericidal effect of, 256. 
benefits of, 255, 259, 260. 
cheeks, pale, 257. 

red, 257. 

clothing for, 258. 
corpuscles, red, 257. 
experiments with, 256. 
haemoglobin, 257, 259. 
in old age, 260. 
in the open air, 258. 
mental effects of, 255. 
rays, chemical, and altitude, 258. 

ultra-violet, 256, 257. 
Svaerdrup, Captain, 264. 
System, circulatory, and adrenals, 
hygiene of, 164. 

Take, Ada, 353. 
Tanberg, 27. 
Tanecki, 46. 
Tarchanoff, 444. 
Tarchanow, 33, 



Tarnowska, Pauline, 7. 

Tavel, 196. 

Teissier, 199, 446. 

Tigersted, 348. 

Tizzoni, 35, 86, 141, 142. 

Thaon, 31. 

Thiele, 95, 374. 

Thompson, Sir William, 222. 

Thyroid gland. (See Gland.) 

Torri, 5, 23, 31. 

Traube, 169. 

Troin and Rivet, 165. 

Triiper, 120. 

Tsen-ki-tong, 403. 

Tuberculous persons, 262, 265. 

Tunnicliffe, 245. 

Twain, Mark, 342. 

Tyson, James, 204, 319, 406. 

Unna, 213. 
Uspenski, 32. 

Valente, 392. 

Van der Bergh, Heymans, 154. 

Van der Ecke, 142. 

Van Sommeren, 343. 

Vassale, 144. 

Vaughan, 299. 

Vegetables. See Food. 

Vegetarian diet. See Diet. 

Vermehren, 3, 85, 90, 93, 95, 126, 

142, 434, 435. 
Vesalius, 404. 
Viault, 259. 
Vidal, 286. 

Vidal and Javal, 204. 
Vimont, 41. 
Voith, 282. 
Von Noorden, 74, 241, 282, 306, 320, 

344, 374, 429, 430. 

Wagner, 30. 

Waldvogel, 152. 

Wallerstein, 201. 

Wassermann, 34. 

Water. See Food. 

Waters, mineral, arsenic in, 428. 

iron, in, 430. 
Watson, 318. 
Watson, Chalmers, 9, 22, 140, 145, 

330. 

Weber, Parkes, 165. 
Weber, Sir Herman, 111, 146, 268. 
Weichardt, 368. 
Weichselbaum, 77. 
Weinberg, 51. 
Weiske, 308. 
Weiss, J., 307. 
Weljaminoff, 34. 
Westergaard, 116. 
White, Hale, 91, 435. ' 



480 



Index. 



Whitwell, 36. 

Widal and Boivin, 162. 

Widmark, 257. 

Wiley, 295. 

Wille, 78. 

Willems, 372. 

Winternitz, 233. 

Woroschiloff, 302. 

Wright, Sir Almroth, 28, 136. 

Xanthin bodies, 364. 



Xanthin bodies, caffein, 364. 
theobromin, 365. 

Yersin, 160. 

Zagari, 150. 
Zander, 247. 
Zeigan, 369, 376. 
Zoroaster, 391, 403. 
Zoth, 443. 
Zunz, 18, 249. 



Other Publications of F. A. Davis Company , Philadelphia 

Health and Longevity Through 
Rational Diet 

PRACTICAL HINTS IN REGARD TO FOOD AND THE USEFULNESS 
OR THE HARMFUL EFFECTS OF THE VARIOUS 
ARTICLES OF DIET. 

BY 

DR. ARNOLD LORAND 

Physician to the Baths, Carlsbad, Austria, etc,, etc. 

Translated from the Original German Edition, with an Introduction by 
VICTOR C. VAUGHAN, M.D., Ann Arbor, Mich. Being a, complete code of 
instructions as to the different foods and how they can be best employed. 
Royal Octavo. 425 pages. Handsomely Bound in Cloth (uniform with 
"OLD AGE DEFERRED"). $3.00, net. 

SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS: 

Introduction, with remarks upon the importance of the Appetite and 
the Object of the Processes of Nourishment. 

I. The Influence of Food Upon Man. 

II. The Fundamental Laws of Rational Feeding. 

III. The Injurious Modes of Feeding. 

IV. The Good and Evil Effects of Various Food Substances. 

Meat Diet. Fish Diet. Milk Diet. Cereals. Green Vege- 
tables. Fruit Diet. Beverages. 

V. Vegetarianism and its Advantages and Disadvantages. Hints for 

the Prevention of the Latter. 

VI. The Practical Advantages of Rational Feeding. Useful Hints. 

VII. Hints for Those Obliged to Take their Meals in Restaurants. 

The Injurious Effects of the "Table d'Hote" Diet. 

VIII. The Increased Activity of Certain Functions Brought About 

by Food. 

IX. The Increased Muscular Power 1 Resulting from a Suitable Diet 

X. Conclusion. The Relationship of Food to Old Age and Lon- 

gevity. Glossary. List of Diseases. Index. 

MANY PEOPLE naturally sidestep books on diet because they 
expect to be warned against their pet dietary follies. This is 
not the Lorand way. In a most entertaining manner Dr. 
Lorand explains to the reader the advantages, disadvantages and 
nutritive values of different foods so clearly that a person of ordinary 
intelligence can exercise good judgment. Obviously, no person of 
reasonable common sense deliberately follows the path of error in 
diet; if he has the facts he can go ahead and choose for himself; Dr. 
Lorand's book provides the facts. 

JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (Chicago, 111.). 

Methods of cooking are described and Interesting remarks are made as to the size 
and distribution of the ill effects arising from various special and one-sided diets. It is full 
of valuable hints from which all can profit. It may be recommended to the layman as welj 
a. to the practitioner. 



Other Publications of F. A. Davis Company, Philadelphia 

Consumption: How to Prevent It and 
How to Live With It 

ITS NATURE, CAUSES, PREVENTION, MODE OP LIFE, CLIMATE, 

EXERCISE. FOOD, AND CLOTHING NECESSARY FOR 

ITS CURE. 

By N. S. DAVIS, A.M., M.D. 

Second Revised Edition. 12mo. 172 pages. Extra Cloth. $1.00, net. 

MOST families unfortunately give little attention to the preven- 
tion of Consumption until the subject has been brought to 
their notice in a menacing way. The author with great 
clearness has set forth the cardinal principles not only of the pre- 
vention of the disease, but of its hygienic treatment when established. 
This work provides much valuable information as to climates, 
diet, exercise, environment and family safeguards identified with the 
treatment of a case in the family when once established. 

NEW ORLEANS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL JOURNAL. 

Dr. Davis has written a thoroughly practical book. He handles the subject In such a 
way that the intelligent victim of consumption can read it with profit. It is the kind of book 
waich the physician can recommend to his patients and their relatives. 

Safeguarding the Special Senses 

GENERAL ADVICE REGARDING THE USE AND PRESERVATION 
OF THE EYES, EARS, NOSE AND THROAT. 

BY 
HENRY O. REIK, M.D. 

Illustrated with 4 Full-page Plates, 2 in Colors. 12mo. 123 pages. 
Attractively Bound in Cloth, 75 cents, net. 

ANY defect in the sight, hearing, or organs of speech tremen- 
dously reduces a person's efficiency. A neglected child there- 
fore may reasonably be expected to later on blame the 
parents who failed in their duty. Adults who are careless about 
colds affecting the ears, or who defer the use of glasses when 
necessary, may rightly expect the onset of defective hearing or 
cataract in their later years. 

It is said that probably 50 per cent, of the practice of specialists 
is made up of attempts to remedy the results of these forms of 
neglect. 

THE BOSTON MEDICAL AND SURGICAL JOURNAL. 

Such a book as this should find an especially useful place among the laity as well as in 
the profession. In fact, the simplicity of style is such that persons of small medical training 
would find it entirely understandable. 



Other Publications of F. A. Davis Company , Philadelphia 



Health and Beauty 



BY 

JOHN V. SHOEMAKER, M.D., LL.D. 

Royal Octavo. 475 pages. Extra Cloth. Bevelled Boards. Price, $1.50, net. 

>T"~ *HIS work is based upon an enormous experience not only as 
a specialist in skin diseases, but as a physician engaged in 
general practice. The contents of the book are therefore 

authentic and founded upon actual knowledge rather than theory. 
There may be good health without good looks, but seldom good 

looks without good health. This treatise tells you how these two 

highly desirable conditions may be co-existent. There is a place in 

every family library for a book of this kind. 

SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS: 

I. The Skin and Complexion. 

II. The Appendages of the Skin. 

III. The Usefulness of the Skin and of the Hair. 

IV. The Complexion. 

V. The Elements of Beauty and Grace. 

VI. World Influence of Woman's Charms. 

VII. Expression, Sexual Attraction, Wedlock. 

VIII. How to Cultivate and Preserve a Good Complexion. 

IX. The Bath. 

X. Digestion and Indigestion. 

XI. Education of the Body. 

XII. Cultivation of the Mind. 

XIII. Clothing and Dress. 

XIV. The Influence of Climate Upon Health. 

XV. Ventilation. 

XVI. Disfigurement from Disease, with Some Treatment of it. 

XVII. Eruptive Fevers. 

XVIII. The Hair, its Fashions and its Diseases. 

XIX. The Nails and Their Diseases. 

XX. Cosmetic Preparations. Index. 



, 
Other Publications of F. A. Davis Company, Philadelphia 

Confessions of a Neurasthenic 

BY 
WILLIAM TAYLOR MARRS, M.D. 

Eight Illustrations. 116 pages. Bound in Handsome Cloth. Price, $1.00. 

CONFESSIONS OF A NEURASTHENIC is designed to show 
the mental absurdities of that extremely cautious and anxious 
individual who wishes under any and all circumstances to take 
extraordinary good care of himself. 

The hero of this sketch has always found real, continuous effort 
too severe a tax upon his health. Therefore, he shifts from one 
occupation to another. His various adventures in search of a calling 
at once congenial and devoid of mental and physical strain are not 
only very amusing to read, but point a most useful moral. 



The Practical Care of the Baby 
And Young Child 

BY 
THERON WENDELL KILMER, M.D. 

Lecturer on Pediatrics in New York Poly clinic Medical School and Hospital', 

Attending Pediatrist, St. Bartholomew's Clinic; Consulting Pediatrist, 

Home of St. Giles, Garden City, New York, etc. 

With 68 Illustrations. Second Revised Edition. 158 pages. 
12mo. Cloth, 75 cents, net. 

THE remarkable reduction in the death rate among infants in 
New York City is the answer to what physicians there have 
been doing in recent years. They have given extraordinary 
attention to the care of children. Dr. Theron W. Kilmer has been 
closely identified in this good work and in compiling his book for 
the public, he was guided not only by an extensive personal experi- 
ence, but by a thorough knowledge of what numerous other ^special- 
ists in the Care of the Infant and Young Child have been doing. 

Kilmer's "Care of the Baby" is a thoroughly safe counsellor in 
the family; the clear text and numerous fine illustrations fulfilling 
every requirement. 








University ol Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

LOWE-MARTIN CO. LIMITED 



