
presentefc to 

Gbe library 

ottbe 

of Toronto 






^ O.V <uvtol a. ; 



Optimistic Medicine 



OR 



THE EARLY TREATMENT OF 
SIMPLE PROBLEMS 

RATHER THAN 

THE LATE TREATMENT OF 
SERIOUS PROBLEMS 



BY A FORMER INSURANCE MAN 





PHILADELPHIA 

F. A. DAVIS COMPANY, PUBLISHERS 
1921 



COPYRIGHT, 1920 

BY 
F. A. DAVIS COMPANY 



Copyright, Great Britain. All Rights Reserred 



PRESS OF 

P. A. DAVIS COMPANY 
PHILADELPHIA. U.S.A. 



FOREWORD 



BETWEEN the Technical Knowledge of the Physi- 
cian and the Legendary Instincts of the average 
citizen there is a sort of No Man's Land which 
accounts for many a sudden disappearance from these 
earthly scenes. 

If it were possible for the physician, who by com- 
parison knows nearly everything on the subject, to 
in a measure bridge this gap and thus transform his 
patients into clients with a greater common knowledge 
of Physiology and Hygiene as a mutual basis for 
consultation, the advantages to the medical profession 
would be great; but nothing in comparison with the 
benefits conferred upon the average family, whose 
hygienic "blunders" in their aggregate results to 
society are worse than many of the traditional 



"crimes." 



(Hi) 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER I. 
OPTIMISM AS A REMEDIAL MEASURE. 

PAGE 

Bombastic Pretense in Primitive Medicine Scorn of the Mod- 
ern Doctor for Such Methods Human Body a Marvelous 
Machine Instructing the Owner How to Run It Unnecessary 
Wear and Tear Nature, Although Sympathetic, Frequently 
Muddles Mental Influence Upon the Body Importance of 
Optimism to the Patient Responsibility of Physician for This 
Attitude The Physician Whose Patients are Always Very 111 
Where the Regular Practitioner has His Advantage Opti- 
mism Saves Physician's Vitality Optimistic Doctors and Pa- 
tients Both Live Long The Sense of Humor The Doctor of 
Excessive Thrift The Two Doctors and the Cancer Case 
Scaring Patients The Army Surgeon who Treated the Indian 
Chief 1-18 

CHAPTER II. 
CO-OPERATION BETWEEN DOCTOR AND PATIENT. 

The New Family The Doctor Abroad The Doctor at His Office 
Consider no Office Case Trifling The Patient who is Richly 
Repaid Exorcising Mystery Killing the Germ of Worry 
Importance of Thought Diversion Explanations which Pro- 
duce Lasting Impressions Supervising the Family Health 
Threatened Men Live Long The Red House on the Hillside 
Haphazard Living What Results From It Locating the 
Weakest Spot Frankness Versus Secretiveness Home Reme- 
dies Their Physiological Action Should be Explained The 
Society Physician Garrulity and How Discouraged 19-35 

CHAPTER III. 
BUILDING IMMUNITY TO DISEASE. 

An Ancient Medical Joke Keeping Patients Out of Difficulties 
Studying Prevention of Ordinary Colds Constitutional Ef- 
fects of Their Repetition Walking Along Life's Pathway 
Blindfolded Investigating Causes of Rheumatic Tendencies 
Financial Benefit Resulting to Patients Inheritance of Immun- 
ity Further Development of Inherited Immunity Avoidance 
of Irritation of the Mucous Membranes Immunity Mainly 

(v) 



vi Contents. 



PAGES 

the Exercise of Good Judgment Increase of Deaths from 
Heart Disease One of the Common Causes The Doctor Who 
Climbed the Mountain Coarse Vegetables and Some of Their 
Drawbacks The Old Story of the Kitchen Clock People who 
Live in a False Security The Thyroid, the Key to Much Dis- 
organizationWell-balanced Mental and Physical Life- 
Joseph H. Choate Developing Candidates for the Advanced 
Immunity Class 36-53 

CHAPTER IV. 

CHILDHOOD AND ITS PROBLEMS. 

Average Infants Should Have Good Physical Prospects A 
Little "Wholesome Neglect" Occasional Contact with Physi- 
cian Important Correcting "Sissy" Habits Anxiety Neurosis 
in Childhood Underfeeding to Avoid Indigestion "Shirt 
Sleeve Diplomacy" Developing the Child's Sense of Humor 
The Small Boy who Ate so Much Hash Parents who Become 
Prejudiced The "Square Deal" for Growing Children Cir- 
cumventing the Diet Crank Handicap of Physicians who 
only See Patients When Very 111 54-71 

CHAPTER V. 
ADOLESCENCE AND THE FAMILY DOCTOR. 

The Egotism of Adolescence Contact with the Doctor at this 
Period Few Parents Have Sufficient Judgment Impressing 
the Importance of Hygienic Rules Discouraging the Germ of 
Tuberculosis The Great Oversupply of Literature on Hygiene 
Prevailing Feminine Dress Healthful Denatured Literature 
Good Health and Good Morals Intelligence and Longevity 
"A Good Dose of Spunk" The Breathing Capacity and Hab- 
itsFrequent Contact with Physician Good Insurance 72-92 

CHAPTER VI. 
THE HOUSEMOTHER WHO WORRIES. 

The Germ of Worry The Antitoxin The Doctor who is a 
Sleuth Wasting of Dynamic Energy Teaching the Mother 
How to Conserve Exaggerated Appreciation which Follows 
The Woman who Sings at Her Work Adjudicating Domes- 
tic Problems The Lump in the Stomach Mothers should 
Know more of Physiology and Psychology The Mental 
Attitude as a Diagnostic Guide The Sense of Humor a 
Therapeutic Agent The Daily Grind has Many Humorous 
Phases 93-lli 



Contents. vii 



CHAPTER VII. 
THE TUBERCULAR SUSPECT. 

PAGE 

The Rights of the Individual Drastic Suggestions of Enthus- 
iasts Innocent Until Proved Guilty Encouragement or Dis- 
couragement Optimistic Attitude Essential The Irregular 
Practitioner The Psychological Effects of the Open Air Treat- 
ment Overfeeding Mental Effects of Banishment The Suc- 
cessful Battle at Home The Maximum Nutrition with 
Minimum Physical Strength Origin of Much Mental Dis- 
ease and Tuberculosis Similar Feeding all Important in 
Prevention 112-127 

CHAPTER VIII. 
THE OVERWORKED BUSINESS MAN. 

Greatly in Need of Guidance by Physician Physiology Modi- 
fied by Development of Maturity American Business Man 
Does not Work Himself to Death Premature Deaths Gen- 
erally Result of Ignorance Business Men Shy of the Search 
for Disease Tact Required Loafing and Overeating Over- 
doing the Vegetables and Salads The Man Blessed with a 
Poor Digestion Serious Consequences of Underfeeding 
Ignorance the Common Cause of Bad Heart The Apprehen- 
sion Due to Ignorance Physicians Should be Specialists in 
Exercise The Brutally Frank Diagnosis Working Days and 
Playing Nights 128-150 

CHAPTER IX. 
THE EARLY GRANDMOTHER STAGE. 

The Excessively Busy Propensity Perpetual Motion Physical 
Wastefulness Doctors Should Issue Warnings Psychoanal- 
ysis Necessary Frequent Result of a Little Unusual Exer- 
cise Mental Morbidity Induced by Routine Developing a 
sense of Humor Dietary Habits Large Doses of Optimism 
Financial Worries Family Worries Disappointment in Chil- 
dren The Business Woman Who Started a Boarding House 
Results of Underdressing Octogenarians Have Usually Kept 
Themselves Warm 151-171 

CHAPTER X. 
ACUTE DISEASES AMONG THE ELDERLY. 

Avoiding the Pitfalls Cold a Barrier to Longevity Pneu- 
monia a Cold Weather Disease Taking a Chance A Cold 



viii Contents. 



PAGE 

More than an Unpleasant Episode Physicians who Explain 
Physiology Parleying with the Digestion The Unnecessary 
Explosions Extreme Fatigue and Reckless Feeding Danger 
Points Along the Alimentary Canal Eccentric Methods of 
Exercise Frequent Error of Attributing Bad Feelings to Age 
Instead of Faulty Hygiene The Doctor who Explains the 
Chemistry of Digestion 172-192 



CHAPTER XI. 
THE CELIBATE OF FIFTY OR SIXTY. 

Many Thankless Tasks Social Sophistries Regarding Bachelor 
Maids, etc. Self-delusive Optimism The Fear of the Uncon- 
ventional Piercing the Reserve of Celibacy A Job for the 
Doctor Special Dominance of Habit Among Celibates Doc- 
tor's Influence Essential The Maiden Lady with the Annuity 
Annuitants Live Long A Busy Life with Companionship 
Better Than an Easy Life that is Lonesome 193-211 

CHAPTER XII. 
PRESERVING THE SPECIAL SENSES. 

The First Recognized Sense, Taste How Perverted More Reci- 
procity Desirable Between Doctors and Dentists As to Cer- 
tain Fads The Slaughter of Innocent Teeth Reviving the 
Sense of Smell Arousing Patients to the Importance of the 
Special Senses Best Fed and Clothed Children Often Neglec- 
tedDefects of Nasal Passages Always a Menace That Dark 
Mysterious Cavern in the Ear Easily Explained to Lay 
People Ultra-thrifty Patients What Doctors Should Some- 
times Tell Them Outlook not Good for the Nervously 
Defective . 212-228 



CHAPTER XIII. 
RETAINING EFFICIENCY LATE IN LIFE. 

Premature Shortening of Life a Civic Loss Those who Seem 
to Avoid Professional Contact with the Doctor Certain 
Reasons for This Shyness Professional Ethics Frittering 
Away Vitality when Unnecessary A Certain Popular Theory 
Weakness of the Flesh and the Optimistic Spirit Hygiene 
in Advanced Years a Very Flexible Term Some Hygienic 
Excuse for the "Avarice of Old Age" The Young Doctor 
who Makes a Hit with Old People Two Kinds of Remedies, 
viz., Pills and Optimism 229-248 



Contents. ix 



CHAPTER XIV. 
MAINTAINING THE VITAL ORGANS. 

PAGE 

"Morale" Of Vast Importance Ignorance of Physiology Under- 
mines the Patient's Courage Going to the Quacks for Sym- 
pathy The More Intensive the Life, the Greater the Need 
of Medical Supervision What the Wise Ones Know Attacks 
of "Wrath" Borderland Cases Overworking the Heart and 
Kidneys at Night Perspiration and Its Importance Should be 
Explained to Patients The Balkan Farmer and His Winter 
Undershirt More Equal Distribution of Bodily Wear and 
Tear Longevity May Thus Result The Physician the Nat- 
ural Source of Enlightenment 249-269 

CHAPTER XV. 
MENTAL TORTURE OF THE BODY. 

The Child Often More or Less Dominated by Apprehension 
Banished in Middle Life Comes Sneaking Back in Old Age 
Mind Diagnosis the Basis of Sound Treatment Patient's Con- 
fidence a Therapeutic Asset The Protracted Search for Germs 
The Shock Occasioned by Complete Discouragement Styles 
in Medical Practice Blood-curdling Diagnostic Tactics Should 
be Avoided "Life in the Old Dog Yet" Cheerful Generalities 
More People Should Appreciate the Psychological Benefit 
They Receive From Their Physicians How to Put the Quacks 
Out of Business Exceedingly Cheerful People Going to the 
Doctor When "Down on Their Luck" Simpler Medical Prob- 
lems and More of Them 270-289 

CHAPTER XVI. 
GETTING BACK TO THAT WHICH is NATURAL. 

One Person is Older at Forty than Another at Sixty-five 
The Normal Infant a Perfect Incarnation of Health^-What 
Correct Hygiene in Later Life will Accomplish Common 
Fallacious Self-confidence Disabilities at Forty Indicate Ignor- 
ance of Hygiene Cost of Living a Factor Milk the Cheapest 
Food Obtainable Some Bad Results of Stomach Tolerance 
White Chinese Suiting the Menu to the Occupation Impoi- 
tance of Posture Universal Ignorance of Digestive Chemistry 
Capacity of the Human Stomach to "Come Back" More 
Hygienic Knowledge as a Remedy for Social Unrest Reck- 
less Marketing of the Poor Physicians Should be Advisors 
in Household Economics 290-302 

GLOSSARY 303 

INDEX . . 311 



CHAPTER I. 
OPTIMISM AS A REMEDIAL MEASURE. 

EVEN from the first primitive man has ever in- 
vested the Healing Art with awe. In no way have 
the aborigines of any part of the globe been more 
responsive to bombastic pretense than in medicine. 
Trading upon this human weakness, multitudes of 
ignorant pretenders in past times have lived in lux- 
ury, or at least in luxury as compared with the mode 
of life of their dupes. As human nature remains the 
same throughout the ages, we do not have to go very 
far back into the history of scientific medicine to find 
similar examples of a superstitious credulity on the 
one side and a class of charlatans on the other. 

Now we have an era in which the physician scorns 
to impose upon the fears of his patients and takes 
them more into his confidence, thus establishing a sort 
of partnership in which the patient gathers the data 
for consideration by the physician -and the latter con- 
sults with the patient and gives him the benefit of his 
naturally greater technical knowledge of the impor- 
tance of the facts submitted. This is Medicine in its 
modern and true aspects, and opens up a field of use- 
fulness for the physician which makes his former 
professional routine seem tame and uninteresting by 
contrast. The physician no longer regards his patient 
as an exhibit displaying such and such routine symp- 
toms, to be treated likewise by routine, but as a 

(1) 



Optimistic Medicine. 



psychological entity with a mental and physical 
machinery which frequently requires adjusting. This 
human machine being the most marvelous and com- 
plicated mechanism ever in existence, it requires 
exceedingly careful handling. Therefore, it is the 
function of the physician not only to understand this 
mechanism and its vagaries, but also to instruct the 
owner in running this machine with the greatest pos- 
sible skill. 

Just as a locomotive engine may arrive after a 
hundred-mile run in perfect condition, but still require 
a period of rest and supervision in the roundhouse, 
so is it necessary that the human machine be not un- 
duly strained by overexertion or unwisely stoked with 
improper fuel. For this reason it is important that 
each patient be trained to exercise the best possible 
judgment in the selection of foods and in the estab- 
lishment of rest intervals, with such recreation as may 
be indulged in without undue fatigue, always bearing 
in mind, however, that a reasonably stiff regimen of 
work is less harmful than any protracted period of 
idleness. 

As all human knowledge has its limitations, it is 
too much to expect that even the most intelligent 
person will not more or less constantly exercise such 
bad judgment in his daily routine as to exert a de- 
pressing influence upon the integrity of his physical 
organism. Every waking hour brings with it such 
factors as annoyance, anxiety, undue haste, and gen- 
eral disturbance of the mental or physical morale 
which induce excess wear and tear. The avoidance of 



Optimism as a Remedial Measure. 



these destructive elements is sufficiently important to 
justify most careful study. To be sure, nature is 
always busily engaged in adjusting, smoothing over, 
and otherwise correcting these errors, but unfor- 
tunately nature frequently overdoes her part. The 
man who rushes off to business after a hurried and 
unsatisfactory breakfast finds nature so full of sym- 
pathy as to give him an abnormal appetite at lunch 
time, with the result that, unless he exercises unusual 
self-control, he a little later on finds himself trying to 
do business with a brain stupefied by the withdrawal 
of an unusual amount of vital force for concentration 
at the most threatened point, viz., the digestion. 

We are told by certain well-meaning enthusiasts 
that we may safely leave most of our troubles due to 
a disordered physical apparatus to the kindly offices 
of nature and all will be well. Unfortunately, this 
view is not entirely a safe one. Nature muddles 
things badly at times and frequently needs restraint. 
The instances of this well-intended, but ill-advised 
zeal on nature's part are almost countless. So it 
appears that those .confiding persons who dispense 
with medical advice and rely solely upon these benev- 
olent and restoring offices frequently find themselves 
in a very bad way. It is therefore often the function 
of the competent physician to repress these natural 
processes of repair by employing the well-known 
methods of the counterirritant, the laxative, and some- 
times the opiate. The oft-expressed wish that we 
might be saved from our friends too often applies to 
benevolent nature herself. 



Optimistic Medicine. 



A similar line of reasoning is justified when we 
contemplate the mind and its far-reaching influence 
upon the body. That the mental should dominate the 
physical is emphatically true, provided that the mind 
is in a normal state, well balanced, and properly 
trained. Under other conditions the influence of the 
mind upon true body may be extremely pernicious. 
We see this in so many instances of those given to 
morbid introspection, who magnify every symptom, 
with the eventual result of a general maladjustment 
all around. It is for this reason that so many physi- 
cians are disinclined to take the patient into their 
confidence, except in the most general way. We be- 
lieve this is a mistake, ; except in the instances where 
the mental poise of the patient has become thoroughly 
unbalanced. A great many patients would recover 
much more rapidly if they could be relieved from en- 
tirely unnecessary anxiety. It is true that a little 
knowledge is a dangerous thing, but it does not neces- 
sarily follow that total ignorance of matters which 
can be easily explained and which would have a very 
reassuring effect on the patient is desirable. A few 
moments devoted to an explanation of the physiology 
of the case in hand and what the doctor confidently 
expects will happen to restore physical equilibrium 
may place the patient in such an attitude of optimism 
and hope as to greatly shorten the period of illness. 

Most people of considerable experience have at 
some time or other come in contact with the breezy, 
cheerful, optimistic physician who often seems to be 
able to work a mental miracle with his patients. Such 



Optimism as a Remedial Measure. 



physicians are apt to acquire a greater reputation for 
skill in the use of drugs than they really deserve, the 
credit which properly belongs to the genial, kindly, 
and optimistic atmosphere created by the doctor being 
given to the prescriptions he writes. For this reason 
it should be apparent that in every family the utmost 
of courage, hope, and optimism should be brought to 
bear to influence the patient to direct his or her mental 
attitude in the right direction. The importance of 
this attitude is illustrated by the well-known fact that 
many patients of middle age or older are prone to 
consider their chances of recovery pessimistically as 
long as they stay in bed. Getting them out, bundled 
up in a chair while the bed is being made, gives them a 
new lease of hope, and they feel that they have crossed 
the crest of the ridge and that now progress toward 
recovery will become more and more easy. 

The depressed patient, normally of alert mind, 
who can be trapped into an exhibition of a natural 
display of humor may have received a more effective 
tonic than anything which can be taken out of a bottle. 
A woman who was naturally quick at repartee gath- 
ered the impression that her digestive functions were 
seriously impaired and the family doctor, a large and 
very rotund person, was joking her about it one day, 
making several allusions to her "poor stomach/' 
Finally he secured the desired reaction. Quick as 
a flash came the retort: "I wouldn't exchange with 
you." Nothing could have benefited her depressed 
functional condition more. It can be taken for 
granted that for the moment at least the manufac- 



Optimistic Medicine. 



ture of depressing toxins was interrupted. The old 
story of the colored gentleman who, when informed 
by the doctor that he had but a short time to live, 
got up from bed, put on his clothes and said, "If I am 
goin' to die, I'm goin' to have some fun/' is not so 
therapeutically heretical as it might seem. A resident 
of New York City has the unique distinction of hav- 
ing had the undertaker call to take him in charge on 
three separate occasions, and is still devoting himself 
to "business as usual." 

It is natural that some physicians should be op- 
timistic and others pessimistic, but the pessimistic 
doctor should change his business. To be sure, not 
many long faced doctors mean to exert a depressing 
influence on their patients. They intend to mask their 
depressed mental condition by an exhibition of great 
professional gravity. Under discouraging circum- 
stances they are very dignified and non-committal. 
When they make a statement, it is with a very grave 
demeanor and an attitude which implies that they 
shall do the best they can in a serious situation. Most 
families of reasonable experience with human nature 
naturally gather the impression that the doctor re- 
gards the patient's condition as serious. Level- 
headed members of the family discount this attitude 
and assure each other that the doctor is so conscien- 
tious that he is apt to be unduly anxious about his 
patients. But the depressing influence has its effect 
just the same, unless the family members have 
reached that state of mind where they are beginning 
to wonder if they had not better change doctors. 



Optimism as a Remedial Measure. 



There are, of course, certain unscrupulous physi- 
cians who make their patients out to be extremely ill 
whenever they have some slight indisposition, in order 
that they may acquire the more glory for having 
brought about a recovery. This type of doctor is 
always cheerful. He tells the family that the patient 
is very sick, but that he feels confident that he can 
bring about early improvement. As long as the doc- 
tor can get away with this policy he has the family 
in a thankful frame of mind because of their great 
good fortune in having him for a family physician. 
But sooner or later this professional pose becomes 
apparent and there is a dread on the family's part to 
call the doctor, even when he should be brought into 
the case, because they feel that he will be sure to 
make a mountain out of what to them seems to be 
but a molehill. So in the long run this kind of pro- 
fessional strategy proves to be unfortunate for the 
doctor, if not for his patients. 

Now by contrast just consider the counsellor who 
puts himself in that absolutely unassailable position 
occupied by the physician who is friendly, genial, 
hopeful, optimistic. The fact that the doctor advises 
the early employment of a trained nurse when such 
advice was unexpected does not come with the shock 
to the patient that would be the case were the doctor 
not cheerfully insistent that he has only favorable ex- 
pectations as to the outcome of the case. The im- 
pression on the patient and the patient's family is that 
the probable recovery will undoubtedly be sufficiently 
hastened by the employment of a nurse to justify the 



8 Optimistic Medicine. 

expense and inconvenience to the household. This 
type of physician always appears cheerful, calm, and 
hopeful. The patient looks forward with anticipation 
to his visits, and feels the hypnotic influence of his 
presence as soon as he enters the house. The orders 
of the optimistic physician are carried out cheerfully 
and hopefully. 

To be sure, the optimistic physician does not al- 
ways save his patients, but whatever the outcome of 
his professional endeavors, he is in a position to jus- 
tify himself all the way along. He has done his level 
best for the patient, has kept up the courage of the 
patient and of the patient's family, resorted to every 
expedient which gave promise of being any help, 
and, with an unfortunate termination of the case, is 
given the credit for having done everything possible 
to avert the eventual calamity. Of course, it is pos- 
sible for a physician naturally optimistic to rely too 
much upon his personality and too little upon remedial 
measures. If the physician is indolent, his natural 
optimism may lead him to neglect to carry out certain 
necessary methods or make a careful study of the 
case with a view of adopting some expedient which a 
more thorough consideration of the symptoms and 
course of the disease would have suggested. Even 
a delightful personality is no excuse for indolence and 
haphazard methods. 

However, when we place the two opposing tem- 
peraments in apposition for analysis, we have to admit 
that, as a rule, the hopeful, but happy-go-lucky, physi- 
cian is sometimes a more successful advisor than the 



Optimism as a Remedial Measure. 



most thoroughgoing, conscientious physician with a 
long face, especially in those cases in which the neu- 
rotic element is conspicuous. 

Various types of fallen healing cults have had 
their rise because with all their defects they had in 
many instances supplied that mental stimulus which 
certain adults in a low state of vitality always crave. 
Physicians who were competent in every way have 
often failed to benefit this class of patients because 
they could not quite disguise their feeling of contempt 
for them. The irregular practitioner never makes 
this mistake. While he may be short on medical 
knowledge, he is long on sympathy, and he panders 
to the morbid craving of the patient sometimes with 
quite remarkable results. The instance of the bed- 
ridden patient who after a seance or two starts on a 
rapid course toward apparent recovery is too fre- 
quent to justify comment, except that it illustrates the 
remarkable beneficial influence of a course of treat- 
ment which in the patient's opinion attaches proper 
significance to their pet symptoms. It seems ridicu- 
lous that so many capable practitioners should have 
had to divide the clinical field with these pretenders, 
but such is the fact. 

While everyone must admire that professional in- 
tegrity which refuses to blend itself with therapeutic 
humbug, it is, indeed, unfortunate that this chief stock 
in trade of the quack should not be more frequently 
utilized by competent physicians and adapted to their 
daily routine, thus leaving these dangerous and ir- 
regular practitioners out in the cold altogether. 



10 Optimistic Medicine. 

We are told by one of the apostles that, of many 
things which are lawful, some are not expedient. The 
quack employs certain methods which are expedient 
but not lawful for him to use, but which are both ex- 
pedient and lawful for the thoroughly competent 
physician to make the most of in his professional 
routine. 

While every physician understands the depressing 
influence of fear, it is probable that few physicians 
take this weakness of human nature sufficiently into 
account in their professional work. A certain per- 
centage of patients make this feeling sufficiently mani- 
fest so that the doctor may govern his course accord- 
ingly, but a much greater percentage of patients keep 
this morbid influence in the background. While they 
are more or less possessed with this apprehensive 
feeling, they assume an attitude of indifference and 
bravado which is deceptive. It is probable that no 
routine measure could be inaugurated by the family 
physician which could be more productive of bene- 
ficial results than to assume in practically every case 
the possible existence of this form of depression. 

If every patient were systematically given the 
benefit of hearty reassurance as a part of the course 
of treatment employed, the effect of mental depression 
anticipated and discounted in advance by the physi- 
cian, the aggregate beneficial results would be very 
great. Take the mother of young children, for in- 
stance, who has to give up her housewifely tasks and 
the care of her children and go to bed with some form 
of illness associated with marked physical prostra- 



Optimism as a Remedial Measure. 11 

tion. She may assume an attitude of composure and 
even cheerfulness in the presence of the physician, but 
left to herself her mind, which must be occupied in 
some manner or other, is very likely to be diverted to 
what might happen to her family should she fail to 
recover. This thought occurs over and over, every 
time bringing with it the development of toxins which 
depress function and retard the processes of repair. 
To exorcise all such mental depressions and replace 
them with a cheery hopefulness is as much the func- 
tion of the physician as to ascertain temperature. 

Our mental faculties are usually either a great 
help to us in our encounters with any form of crisis 
or very much the opposite. It all depends upon the 
point of view. The patient naturally takes for 
granted that the members of the family will say all 
they can that is encouraging and such statements are 
accordingly discounted. But when the family doctor 
calmly and convincingly explains the cause of the ill- 
ness and the probable certainty with which remedial 
measures will bring results, and as a friend of the 
family assures the patient in unmistakable terms that 
improvement should soon be manifest, it is apt to have 
a wonderfully reassuring and tonic influence, induc- 
ing the patient to eliminate from his mind this haunt- 
ing morbid panorama of dire things which are likely 
to happen to dependants should the recovery not take 
place. With this load of apprehension effectively 
thrown off, rest and the natural resilience of a reason- 
able amount of vitality will accomplish wonders in a 
short time. 



12 Optimistic Medicine. 

It is, indeed, sad to contemplate the innumerable 
instances in which families of growing children have 
been bereaved of a parent who, through overwork and 
perhaps underfeeding, had been reduced in health 
and vitality to be later pounced upon by these devils 
of morbid apprehension. Unnecessary anxiety has 
dragged down multitudes of such people, often depriv- 
ing children of the guiding and affectionate care of a 
mother or of the material assistance of the father, 
who, could they have had even a little knowledge of 
the certain depressing influences of worry, might 
have developed sufficient mental poise to throw off 
these burdens and become restored once more to nor- 
mal health and vigor. The physician who makes a 
part of his therapeutic measures a systematic policy 
of anticipation and elimination of morbid fears, is 
accomplishing far more for his community than even 
the most appreciative circle of patients can ever 
realize. 

Of course, there is a time for everything. There 
may be circumstances when a cheerful pose would be 
a mockery. The existence of a crisis clearly dis- 
cernible to the lay public is no time for a display of 
jovial demeanor. But an attitude of calm alertness 
and an appearance of readiness to meet the emergency 
always produces a steadying effect on the family, 
which is a much more helpful atmosphere for the 
doctor to work in than where opposite conditions 
prevail. 

Every physician comes in contact with situations 
which are a pretty heavy tax upon his nerves. If he is 



Optimism as a Remedial Measure. 13 

subject to depression of spirits and has a personal 
interest in the central figures of the tragedy or 
comedy being enacted, the general situation may con- 
siderably affect his efficiency. Furthermore, while it 
is desirable that the physician should take a keen in- 
terest in the welfare of his patients, it is extremely 
bad policy for him to allow his equilibrium to be jarred 
by personal anxiety. Many physicians whose sym- 
pathies were too sorely taxed in their contact with 
old families have paid dearly for same in vitality. 
Moreover, any depression on the part of the doctor 
produces even greater feeling of discouragement on 
the part of the patient and family. It is plain to be 
seen that the patient's prospects are distinctly lowered 
by any disturbances of poise on the part of the practi- 
tioner. Great numbers of people have become intro- 
spective invalids at an early age when, could they 
have thrown off the load of self-consciousness and 
successfully diverted their thoughts into other chan- 
nels when these feelings of depression appeared on the 
scene, the symptoms would have died a natural death 
and they might have lived lives of usefulness and con- 
tentment instead of being a burden to themselves and 
their friends. 

The octogenarian can generally be put down as 
having exercised wholesome restraints upon any 
tendency to take a gloomy view of things. This es- 
pecially applies to the physician himself. The doctor 
who reaches the age of eighty years has been an opti- 
mist who has not allowed professional burdens and 
anxieties to depress the functions of his vital organs. 



14 Optimistic Medicine. 

The probabilities are that he has exhaled an atmos- 
phere of hopefulness among his patients that has in 
the main been more beneficial to them than the pre- 
scriptions he has written. For this reason, it can be 
seen that all the cheerful influences which the doctor 
can bring to bear upon his patients perhaps accom- 
plishes as much good for himself in a general way as 
for the patients themselves. It becomes second nature 
for him to be cheerful and he keeps his mental and 
bodily poise to an advanced age. Therefore the doctor 
should add optimism to every formula for his own 
benefit as well as that of his patients. 

Nothing relieves the tension of anxiety more than 
a good, wholesome joke. A cheerful demeanor may 
be assumed by anxious members of the family and 
constitute more or less of restraint not only upon the 
patient who detects the unreality of the pose, but upon 
each other. The physician who has a sense of humor 
has abundant opportunities to exercise it in such a 
way as to, for the time being at least, dispel that 
seriousness which settles like a heavy fog upon the 
mental processes of those who are undergoing a 
heavy strain on account of serious family illness. The 
real joke should be made to do its full duty. Many a 
medical legend has been handed down from one gen- 
eration to another and performed its little function of 
relief. 

A physician in northern New England made his 
fame secure in a large area by an exhibition of thrift. 
Passing the cabin of a wood chopper on a side road 
he was called in by an anxious wife to see her hus- 



Optimism as a Remedial Measure. 15 

band who had been injured. The doctor prescribed a 
liberal diet. On being assured that the family were 
in desperate straits and that the only suitable delica- 
cies for the sick husband were the eggs contributed 
by two hens, the doctor disposed of the puzzling ques- 
tion in a very few words, namely, "Kill one of the 
hens and make broth; I will take the other for my 
fee." 

Differences in temperament are, of course, as 
manifest in the family doctor as in his patients. In a 
country village two opposing kinds of professional 
policy were well illustrated. 

A well-known resident, who, although uneducated, 
was a man of distinct personality and thoroughly re- 
spected by the community, was afflicted with a tissue 
growth which assumed a suspicious appearance. He 
was under the care of a well-known physician, who 
in his professional routine always exhibited a tem- 
porizing and blarneying attitude toward his patients. 
His attitude toward this case was characteristic. He 
made light of the matter, allaying the man's natural 
anxieties, applying local remedies, and looking out 
for him in every way that he could with the apparent 
hope that the growth might not prove to be really 
malignant. Whenever the doctor was interrogated 
pointedly as to what this condition really was, he 
assumed a very reassuring attitude. Finally the pa- 
tient became convinced that the case was more se- 
rious than the doctor was willing to admit, and told 
him so. He also said he was going to consult another 
physician in the village who was in the habit of telling 



16 Optimistic Medicine. 

his patients the truth. He accordingly interviewed 
the other physician who made a careful examination, 
and without any hesitation informed him that he had 
inoperable cancer that would doubtless prove fatal. 
The man paid the doctor his fee, thanked him for his 
frankness, and when he went to his sleeping room for 
the night carried with him a quart bottle of brandy. 
The next morning the bottle was empty and the man 
was found to be dead. 

Many physicians seem to find it necessary to scare 
their patients a little in order to get them to carry out 
their professional instructions. This policy is justified 
in some instances, but should only be applied where 
the patient is naturally of a very hopeful disposition. 
Prediction of dire consequences due to failure to 
follow the doctor's advice may make a lodgment in the 
mind which under discouraging circumstances will 
have a very morbid influence. Therefore, under al- 
most any circumstances, the holding out of a hopeful 
outlook is by far the best policy. 

There is probably no calling in life where the 
policy of being all things to all men and most women 
is more necessary than with a physician. The tactful 
doctor knows the temperaments' of his patients, or at 
least he should find them out if possible. It is for such 
reasons that the cultivation of a more or less personal 
acquaintance with the family is so desirable. There 
are a good many expedients by which the shrewd 
medical man .can impress the youngsters who come 
under his supervision. A Philadelphia urchin in- 
formed his mother, after a short ride in the auto of a 



Optimism as a Remedial Measure. 17 

young doctor of the neighorhood, that Dr. So-and-So 
was "the best boy in town." 

The unscrupulous man employs artifice for a bad 
cause, but the most honorable physician may employ 
artifice in a good cause. An old regular army sur- 
geon stationed in early life at one of the frontier 
military posts in the Northwest related the following 
experience : At the fort one day a messenger arrived 
from an Indian encampment some twenty or thirty 
miles distant asking that a medicine man in the fort 
be sent to see the big chief, who was in a bad way. 
Two or three surgeons respectfully declined the in- 
vitation, as the Indians were not regarded as very 
friendly. One doctor who thought he knew Indians 
pretty well and was inclined to be venturesome took 
an orderly who volunteered to go with him and 
started off with the messenger. Arriving at the en- 
campment he was immediately shown into the tepee 
of the chieftain, whom he found to be afflicted with 
an extremely bad carbuncle on the back of his neck, 
which had apparently reached the stage to be lanced. 
A crowd of bucks, squaws and younger inhabitants 
of the encampment gathered around. They looked at 
the army doctor with some curiosity, but with more 
suspicion. It was not an especially reassuring situa- 
tion. The doctor who knew Indian customs pretty 
well decided to make an impression. He therefore 
proceeded to imitate the mummery and antics of an 
Indian medicine man who had given a performance 
once at the army post. The audience was duly im- 
pressed. Likewise the patient, who submitted to sur- 



18 Optimistic Medicine. 

gical treatment followed by some quieting medicine, 
after which the old chief who had been in great dis- 
tress for some days proceeded to sleep the entire 
night through. The next morning he was very much 
improved and the venturous doctor started back to 
camp with his fee, two fine Indian ponies led behind 
by the orderly, 



CHAPTER II. 
CO-OPERATION BETWEEN DOCTOR AND PATIENT. 

WHEN the doctor is called to visit an entirely new 
family in time of stress, nothing is more calculated 
to give confidence to such people than to have him 
show an interest in the general physical history of the 
patient and of the family itself. The impression pro- 
duced is that he is a safe counsellor. And it is but 
natural that the physician who is suddenly called to a 
serious case should, in the interest of his own reputa- 
tion, gather as much information as he reasonably 
can that will be of assistance to him in estimating the 
natural resistance and rebounding vitality of the pa- 
tient whom he is expected to pilot through to recovery. 
Many physicians who thus meet every requirement 
at the bedside somehow prove to be a disappointment 
to the grateful family when they individually have 
occasion to interview the doctor at his office. 

It is a mistake to ever consider the case of a pa- 
tient who comes to the office as trifling. It is a dis- 
advantage to the patient and a hindrance to the 
normal development of the doctor. Every problem 
should be considered as possibly serious until the 
neuropathic trail can be followed up to its probable 
source and the patient's anxiety succeeded by the 
desired feeling of self-assurance. Such cases are 
usually simple enough after a little study. 

The man, woman, or child in perfect health is un- 
conscious of any ailments. There is a sense of well- 

(19) 



20 Optimistic Medicine. 

being, a feeling of optimistic satisfaction with the 
entire situation. Any disturbance of mental poise 
which evidently has some physical reason for it is 
worth its proportion of the doctor's time and of the 
patient's money. 

No physician should be so "busy" that he cannot 
give a reasonable degree of attention to the quite 
possibly trivial ailment which some office patient pre- 
sents to his notice. To listen in an abstracted manner 
and hand out some routine tonic is to send the patient 
away dissatisfied, which is not good professional prac- 
tice nor good business policy. Back of the slight 
ailment there may be the clue to a complete under- 
standing of the general condition suggestive of new 
and rational methods of treatment. 

The normal life of the adult is based upon proper 
functioning of every organ. It is the doctor's official 
duty to see that this normal poise is maintained if 
possible by every one of his clients. 

The proper procedure, therefore, is to review the 
symptoms and the state of mind of the patient, to co- 
ordinate the various facts brought together from time 
to time, and instruct the patient in those general prin- 
ciples of hygiene and physiology which will enable 
him or her to approximate as far as possible that de- 
sirable condition of a sound mind and a sound body. 
The patient is thus richly repaid for every visit he 
makes to the doctor's office. 

Naturally some patients are more communicative 
than others. Some wish to talk about their symptoms 
indefinitely and in other cases more than the third 



Co-operation Between Doctor and Patient. 21 

degree is required to get anything like a coherent 
idea of what seems to be troubling them. But it does 
not follow that a reluctant patient is not secretly grati- 
fied to have the doctor persevere and get at the bottom 
of the case as soon as possible. Some patients pre- 
sent a rosy view of their situation with the hope that 
the doctor will be favorably impressed and by some 
optimistic utterance brush away their own lurking 
fears. Such patients attach a weird significance to 
any statement, however trivial, the doctor may have 
occasion to make. The physician, however, is always 
on safe ground if he explains physiology to them. 
This holds good in any condition of discouragement 
and apprehension. Nothing brushes the cobwebs of 
mystery out of a patient's mind so effectively as to 
make clear to him that the person physiologically 
normal is healthy. It is much better for a physician 
to be regarded by his patient as a scientist than as a 
magician. 

When the husband, wife, maiden aunt, or grand- 
mother of the family has made a trip to the new 
doctor's office, and the doctor has shown a desire to 
take an accurate account of stock of the patient's gen- 
eral situation and has talked encouragingly and con- 
veyed some real information that will be a help in 
correcting any tendency to anxiety, that person is 
likely to return home with a new interest in acquir- 
ing and maintaining a high standard of health; and 
the chances are that that day the family will have 
adopted that doctor as their medical director. So as 
aforestated, the crucial moment between the new doc- 



22 Optimistic Medicine. 

tor and the old family, or the old doctor and the new 
family, is in the first office visit when the patient goes 
to interview the doctor with a lot of hidden worries, 
but with perhaps the appearance of cheerfulness, to 
present some variety of ailment to be treated by the 
physician. The doctor who recognizes that psycho- 
logical moment and makes the most of it is a real 
diplomat as well as physician. 

Of course, it involves some little time and pa- 
tience for the doctor to secure access to the inner 
consciousness, as it were, of the timorous or prudish 
patient. But the returns fully justify the trouble. 
When we contrast this humane method of dealing 
with those who have had the germ of worry implanted 
in their systems with the mysterious all-wise attitude 
of certain physicians who do not think it worth while 
to let their patients know anything about themselves, 
there can be but one answer as to which is the better 
course. The physician who assumes the oracular pose 
and believes in keeping his patients in ignorance is 
quite likely to see these patients pass into other hands. 
There is thus developed, as is frequently observed in 
small towns, an atmosphere of antagonism on the part 
of certain doctors toward the physician who pursues 
the opposite course, especially when by such methods 
he seems to be developing a large practice. 

When we consider the remarkable change in func- 
tional power which may accrue to the morbid person 
who is suddenly placed in a new and cheerful environ- 
ment, it begins to dawn upon us that such a person 
should be trained to divert the thought currents into 



Co-operation Between Doctor and Patient. 23 

more optimistic channels. Even the most uneducated 
person recognizes the helpful influence of such a 
change. Such being the case and autosuggestion be- 
ing an acknowledged factor in elevating or depressing 
the efficiency of bodily functions, why should so many 
people of middle age who begin to detect real or im- 
aginary physical weakness find it necessary to consult 
an irregular practitioner in order to secure a sym- 
pathetic appraisement of their physical condition as 
revealed to them through the magnifying glass of 
anxiety? Knowing as he does so much more of the 
basic sciences of anatomy, physiology, and especially 
of the varying intensities of bodily waste and repair, 
it is the experienced family physician who should be 
consulted and who should explain the physiological 
aspects of such cases in such a way as to make per- 
fectly clear to the patient what may be reasonably 
hoped for, provided that the upbounding and restor- 
ing functions of nature are not handicapped by un- 
physiological habits or depressed by the toxins of 
unnecessary and wholly unscientific anxiety. 

Unfortunately a multitude of physicians consider 
it almost unethical to show much interest in a case un- 
less there are real and clearly defined evidences of 
serious disorder. They decline to bother with a case 
where "there isn't much the matter with her/ 7 With 
the very best of intentions they assume an attitude 
that repels confidence, or causes the patient to feel 
that the doctor has tried by a bland and reassuring 
manner to disguise a certain feeling of contempt. 
Even where the doctor has guessed correctly and the 



24 Optimistic Medicine. 

patient is soon well again, the result may be unfor- 
tunate, as the person who fancied himself ill may un- 
der other circumstances delay consulting the physi- 
cian until a serious condition has developed. 

The physician should eliminate from his mind any 
and all reservations as to the ethics of devoting time 
and care to any person who comes to his office as a 
patient. It is impossible for any man or woman to 
consult a capable physician in his office without re- 
ceiving full value for the fee which may be paid 
provided that the doctor makes proper use of the op- 
portunity thus presented to explain the functions 
which may seem to the patient to be disturbed. Only 
a few minutes devoted to such explanations may pro- 
duce impressions which will be lasting and helpful 
from early life to old age. When we hear of the as- 
tounding ignorance of hygiene shown by people who 
in other respects are masterful in their intelligence, it 
is to wonder that such useful people who may have 
been cut down in their prime should not have been 
better informed by their physicians, for in most cases 
they have been under the nominal care at least of some 
doctor. 

Why should the man who had learned the art of 
supreme concentration in business and who was 
needed badly in the great constructive problems of 
modern life stumble and fall out of the procession 
because of the lack of a few lessons in self-preserva- 
tion which could have been so easily passed on to him 
by his doctor or his child's doctor? Apparently it is 
a curious conception of professional dignity which 



Co-operation Between Doctor and Patient. 25 

often leads the physician to feel that he would be 
attempting to parade his knowledge if he were to 
explain the physiology identified with the problem 
presented to his notice by a patient, or, when called 
to a case of croup, were to indicate an interest in 
the health of the father nearly always engrossed in 
the cares of business and absent from home when the 
doctor called. 

Viewing this matter in its philosophical aspects, 
one might readily imagine a physician under such 
circumstances inviting a wife's confidence as to the 
husband's condition of health, and, should it seem 
suitable, advising her to ask her husband to report to 
his office for professional advice. It is easy to con- 
jecture the innumerable instances in which such a 
policy might forestall the development of a nervous 
breakdown, overstrained blood vessels, or any pre- 
mature change from perverted functions to perma- 
nent disability. But, no ; it is not the fashion to "solicit 
business/' and the family physician hurriedly pre- 
scribes for the ailing child now perhaps already well 
on the way to recovery and hastens to the next case 

Even if we grant that a smattering of the rudi- 
ments of medical knowledge may lead a person to be 
at times too introspective, is it not better for both pa- 
tient and physician if the doctor is consulted some- 
times unnecessarily than if the overworked business 
man or mother of a family ignore all warnings, only 
interviewing the doctor when the conditions are des- 
perate? The old saying that "threatened men live 
long" has its counterpart in the histories of those who 



26 Optimistic Medicine. 

frequently consult their physicians, as by this habit 
a person gradually acquires a comprehension of the 
physiology which relates to his particular case and 
instinctively avoids that which he has learned is 
hurtful. Of course, it is possible for an unscrupulous 
physician to trade on the morbid fears of a semi-in- 
valid, but because this is sometimes done is no reason 
why the strictly reputable members of the medical 
profession should ignore such important aids to the 
extension of their spheres of usefulness. Often the 
elderly female who "has been the rounds" of the 
various offices at last finds a sympathetic listener and 
acquires a new lease of life through that power of sug- 
gestion which diverts her thoughts into more hopeful 
channels, thus giving the restorative powers of nature 
a chance. 

A salesman visiting physicians once called at the 
office of a doctor who practiced in a small town where 
he had two or three professional rivals, and after 
office hours were over was invited to take a ride over 
the hills in the doctor's carriage. The object of the 
drive was a small cottage high up on the hillside, the 
visitor sitting in the carriage while the call was being 
made. That evening the salesman, interviewing an- 
other practitioner in the town, chanced to mention this 
trip. "Did the doctor go to a small red house on the 
hill over east of here?" was the question. "Yes/' 
said the salesman. The rival medical man smiled 

sarcastically. "Whenever Dr. gets real hard 

up for a couple of dollars, he visits an old woman 
at that red house who thinks she is sick, and she 



Co-operation Between Doctor and Patient. 27 

always pays cash." The interesting sequel is that 
the physician thus accused changed his location, re- 
moving from the above described atmosphere of spite 
to a large town, where he soon acquired an extensive 
practice and an enviable reputation as a man of ability 
in his profession. 

In the "good old days" that we hear about, but 
which few of us would have enjoyed, it was con- 
sidered weak and childish to consult a physician un- 
less conditions were serious. Men and women thus 
proud to show a contempt for ordinary physical ills 
frequently refrained from seeking medical advice un- 
til the only remaining function of the doctor was to, 
so far as possible, ease the path to the grave. Such 
people were regarded as strong characters, whereas 
in the light of our present age their code was entirely 
wanting in common sense. 

The average adult American follows a certain 
routine of personal habits, some of which, unmodified 
by a correct understanding of their influence upon 
the ordinary physiological processes, may prove dis- 
astrous to the functional integrity. When we con- 
sider these facts it may be pertinently asked why a 
man should not select some capable physician to make 
clear to him those methods by which he may conserve 
the healthfulness and functional efficiency of his ner- 
vous system, his heart, his kidneys and digestive ap- 
paratus. He would thus be better prepared not only 
to retain health and youthfulness to an advanced age, 
but also greatly increase his capacity to accomplish 
results in his business or calling. Such an orderly 



28 Optimistic Medicine. 

system of self -development and conservation presents 
an illuminating contrast to the by far too common 
habit of living in a haphazard way until some un- 
pleasant warning sends a man in a panic to a physi- 
cian, who is himself handicapped in meeting the emer- 
gency by an almost total ignorance of the physio- 
logical history of the case. The advantages on the 
one side and the disadvantages on the other would 
seem to be apparent to any man of business acumen. 
Even the man most careless of his own physical well- 
being sees the good sense of having his automobile 
carefully examined occasionally by a competent 
mechanic. 

It is a reflection upon the common sense of the 
present age, and in a measure upon the capacity of the 
medical profession as well, that the prospects for 
longevity of the delicate woman of fifty should be 
greater than those of the apparently robust man of 
the same age. The reasons are obvious. The aver- 
age delicate woman has had her physical limitations 
explained to her by her physician whom she consults 
at such times as with her awakened sense of signi- 
ficance of unusual symptoms she deems necessary. 
The big, resolute, robust man ignores symptoms. He 
has always "come through" all right in the past and 
relies upon his abounding vitality as sufficient. Some 
time the charm fails to work, and analysis shows 
either that the kidneys, those noble organs, as Lorand 
so aptly terms them, no longer effectively perform 
their functions, or that something else has gone 
wrong. The catastrophe could have been prevented 



Co-operation Between Doctor and Patient. 29 

had some competent physician been given the contract 
a few years earlier to watch for jarring sounds in the 
physical machinery. 

The functions of the physician should more nearly 
correspond with those of the attorney. In older and 
more crude social conditions the successful lawyer 
rather encouraged his clients in litigation. In these 
days he counsels moderation. He devotes more and 
more time to preparing himself as a business adviser. 
He acquires a knowledge of the business problems of 
a variety of clients who come to rely more and more 
upon the sound judicial advice they can always de- 
pend upon when they consult the attorney who has 
followed the ups and downs of a business year after 
year. 

Given a fair chance, any well-qualified physician 
could soon form a pretty accurate estimate of the 
physical assets of the average man or woman. He 
could soon detect that "weakest spot" and teach the 
patient to recognize the storm signals. Under such 
conditions the practice of medicine would become 
more remunerative, than at present, as it would soon 
be the fashion with all intelligent families to regard 
their doctor as a director of hygiene as well as physi- 
cian. They would soon discover that the avoidance 
of serious illnesses made even a considerable expendi- 
ture for general professional supervision a great 
economy in the aggregate. 

Such a modification in the professional routine 
would be a boon to the physician. He could devote 
more and more time to the study of disease preven- 



30 Optimistic Medicine. 

tion, while there would be less and less of those times 
of stress which are sprung on the hard-worked physi- 
cian called in on emergency to a patient of whose gen- 
eral history he knows practically nothing. Many a 
time with such cases the physician is almost sure to be 
a victim. If he saves the patient, the family may 
never call for his services again, while if the case ter- 
minates unfavorably, the doctor is blamed. 

It is the sudden, critical type of case that exhausts 
the doctor's vitality and makes him old before his 
time. 

The retail clerk who assumes a bored air when 
questioned closely by a customer as to the quality or 
special characteristics of an article of merchandise 
is not likely to rise very fast. By taking the trouble 
to give a little real information so that the patron 
would take away with him a new idea or two on that 
special subject, the store would have been given a bit 
of effective advertising and the salesman quite likely 
would have added to his personal clientele. 

A certain type of family physician assumes a 
somewhat similar attitude toward patients. The doc- 
tor asks a few routine questions and with little or no 
comment on the case writes a prescription. With the 
suggestion that he be consulted again if necessary, he 
hurries to the next patient. Quite likely he never 
hears from the case or the patient again. To be sure, 
he preserves his professional dignity and could not by 
any stretch of the imagination be accused of trying 
to "drum up trade/' But by a few skillful questions 
he could have secured some valuable data which, 



Co-operation Between Doctor and Patient. 31 

briefly summarized in his notebook, would be useful 
if consulted again, while by the exhibition of a 
friendly interest he would have sent the patient away 
feeling that a safe and competent family practitioner 
was here available. 

Another species of medical man has an ambition 
to have a society practice. If consulted by a woman 
who plays bridge in exclusive circles, he turns the 
conversation into such channels as will impress the 
patient that he, too, is of the elect. This policy some- 
times seems to bring results, but the associations of 
fashionable society are little consolation when a family 
crisis develops. It is then that the plain, unpre- 
tentious, but capable physician shows his value. 

Most families have developed certain methods of 
treatment by home remedies which, with a little en- 
couragement, will be explained to the family physi- 
cian. It is quite the common practice to ridicule these 
family notions. A certain matron was accustomed to 
apply camphorated oil to her children's chests when- 
ever there was a cold with bronchial irritation. The 
family doctor considered this a huge joke, and on one 
occasion told his small patient with a heavy cold, the 
mother standing by, "Now, if your mother wants to 
put oil on you, tell her she can rub your chest well and 
then apply the oil to this chair leg and it will do just 
as much good/' The mother, who knew the doctor 
very well, enjoyed the joke, but did not change her 
opinion of the remedy. However, quite a few home 
remedies are actually foolish. Some people still be- 
lieve in powwowism. 



32 'Optimistic Medicine. 

Generally speaking, home remedies employed by 
women of fair intelligence are entitled to the sem- 
blance at least of the doctor's respect. For this rea- 
son a better impression is produced if the physician 
admits the value of such expedients. It may be in the 
interest of the family if the medical adviser takes the 
trouble to explain the reasons for whatever efficacy 
there may be in the home device, perhaps incidentally 
pointing out its limitations and the possible dangers 
of too much reliance upon it. In this case the mother 
will feel that in the main the doctor approves of her 
judgment and will also carry away with her a higher 
appreciation of the doctor as a recourse in time of 
stress. The woman (or man either) who leaves a 
doctor's office pleased with herself is pretty sure to in- 
cidentally be pleased with the doctor. 

Few practitioners appreciate the value to a patient 
of some chance word of warning or physiological 
hint. Real old people especially treasure up the hy- 
gienic hint received from some physician they knew 
in earlier years. Often an old man of eighty, explain- 
ing his health in advanced years, will quote some such 
suggestion as exercising a wholesome influence dur- 
ing many years. It is needless to say that such physi- 
cians are invariably pictured as eminent practitioners. 

It is only natural that a distant professional atti- 
tude on the one side should be met with a feeling of 
more or less constraint on the other. This will not be 
dispelled by airy references to social topics by the 
doctor. To get the inner confidences of the patient a 
physician must show an interest in details of personal 



Co-operation Between Doctor and Patient. 33 

hygiene and the all-important mental pose. The ap- 
parent dietetic error may not, in view of certain idio- 
syncrasies of the patient, be the key to the situation 
at all. Some irritating or corroding element in the 
family relationships may, if ascertained, provide the 
clue to a line of mental suggestion that will improve 
the, situation materially. 

Every man or woman of fair intelligence can be 
made to see the importance of thought propulsion 
in healthful channels. To avoid the physical depres- 
sion which results from morbid mental states there 
must be a habit of switching the thoughts in other 
directions. A few minutes devoted to explaining 
these methods of interchangeable thought currents 
may save a brand from burning up under the artful 
supervision of an irregular practitioner. A woman 
will naturally be grateful to the physician who res- 
cues her young child from a dangerous attack of 
croup, but if he can teach the mother the rudiments 
of that philosophy which will enable her to make 
the best of whatever situation may confront her, she 
will be reminded of his helpfulness continually. 

In securing the unreserved confidence of patients 
some trouble is involved, of course, but it is the best 
of investments. To encourage the employment of 
home remedial measures by explaining their physio- 
logical action is but to assist parents in recognizing in 
season those conditions which indicate the need of 
professional counsel. An understanding of the gen- 
eral principles of diet, a knowledge of the utility of 
the fomentation and counterirritant, and of those 

3 



34 Optimistic Medicine. 

methods by which it is possible to secure relative im- 
munity from colds should be reasonably expected by 
the average family as a part of the equivalent to be 
delivered to them by any physician whose relations 
are such as to constitute him the family doctor. 

Of course, there are families who will sadly im- 
pose on the good nature of any doctor who will submit 
to it. Every situation has a law unto itself. The 
slacker in paying bills naturally deserves little con- 
sideration. Under such conditions the traditional 
brusqueness of the bluff country doctor is very much 
in order. A physician in a medium-sized country town 
in New England was standing in his habitual pose of 
dignified reserve on the steps of his favorite drug 
store one summer afternoon. He had completed his 
calls, his horse and carriage were at the curb, and the 
doctor was contentedly smoking a long black cigar. 
An old garrulous male resident of the town ap- 
proached the doctor just as a funeral cortege rounded 
the corner and passed down the street. The old man, 
not greatly admired as a citizen, and who was always 
endeavoring to appear on terms of intimacy with this 
physician, was immediately interested. He blinked 
for some moments at the passing procession. Turn- 
ing to the impassive figure beside him, he asked 
" Whose funeral procession is that, Doctor ?" The 
name of the departed was supplied. "What! is he 
dead, Doctor?" "His friends must be a mighty hard- 
hearted set if he isn't dead," was the laconic reply. 

While the physician is sometimes embarrassed by 
the too assiduous attentions of his admiring followers, 



Co-operation Between Doctor and Patient. 35 

he is not entirely immune to charges of unnecessary 
solicitude for them. However, the caustic critic who 
admonishes her neighbor to be careful and not let the 
doctor "run up a bill" by making unnecessary visits 
will have her cautions ungraciously received, provided 
that the physician in question makes it his custom to 
always take the family into his confidence. Such a 
system assures the attending physician of the loyalty 
of any family whose patronage is worth having. It is 
no small advantage to any family doctor to have the 
intelligent mother of a family of children ready at 
any time to take up the cudgels in his defense. 

The, woman who has seen her children safely 
piloted through the perils of those contagious diseases 
which are with difficulty avoided, especially in towns 
and cities, and who has had the rudiments of physio- 
logical development carefully explained to her inci- 
dentally, is no small factor in providing an effective 
substitute for the advertising of which the doctor is 
deprived by his code of ethics. 



CHAPTER III. 
BUILDING IMMUNITY TO DISEASE. 

AN ancient form of medical humor is exhibited 
where the family doctor declares that he cannot afford 
to take a very long vacation at any time for fear that 
his patients will all get well. In a similar fashion the 
lawyer of ancient times was careful to keep in touch 
with his clients lest they might adjust their own diffi- 
culties and thus be able to dispense with his services. 
These crude days are now no more. The business 
man now knows enough law to enable him to see for 
himself the importance of having his attorney keep 
him out of difficulties and the time is rapidly approach- 
ing when the average man or woman of intelligence 
will expect a similar policy on the part of his medical 
adviser. 

There are enough hygienic problems connected 
with every household to justify more or less contin- 
uous association with a capable medical man. To 
build up an immunity which will stand off disease is a 
much more advanced form of medical science than 
treatment of colds and indigestions brought about by 
gross ignorance of hygiene. 

Greatly to their disadvantage, it is not the custom 
of the average family to secure medical advice in cases 
of ordinary colds. For this reason these colds con- 
stantly repeat themselves. If the physician could be 
encouraged to hunt for the cause of these predisposi- 
tions, he might very likely be able to make sugges- 
tions that would largely eliminate these recurrent dis- 
(36) 



Building Immunity to Disease. 37 

tempers and at the same time augment the powers of 
resistance to other forms of disease. Colds are due to 
chilling the skin. 

People can well afford to keep in reasonably close 
communication with any physician who is making a 
study of the avoidance of colds. A long train of un- 
pleasant consequences are identified with a repetition 
of colds. The integrity of the mucous membrane of 
the nose and throat is very considerably affected, 
thus rendering the patient more susceptible to the in- 
fluences of dust, damp air and sudden chill. Fre- 
quently repeated head colds are very likely to cause 
eventual impairment of the hearing. Therefore, for 
the reasonably intelligent family to depend upon self- 
treatment for such conditions is often worse than folly. 
In too many cases it results in actual life-shortening. 
Numerous persons have died of pneumonia as a re- 
sult of having "colds" and not consulting a doctor 
promptly. 

Now taking both parties into consideration, let us 
briefly review the advantages which would result 
from consulting a. physician systematically whenever 
a cold materializes. From the patient's standpoint 
there is a possibility of great benefits in the form of a 
greater capacity for enjoyment to advanced years. 
On the doctor's part there is an opportunity to acquire 
a very intimate knowledge of the physical organiza- 
tion of the patient. In studying up the cause of these 
recurrent colds, he must of necessity acquaint himself 
with the general physical condition of the patient and 
especially the state of the digestion. In this way he 



38 Optimistic Medicine. 

is prepared to formulate a hygienic regimen which 
will build up resistance to all varieties of germ dis- 
eases. Any average family can well afford to pay the 
doctor for these researches and the doctor can richly 
afford to devote the time to so interesting and useful 
a task if he is to be well paid for it. Tact is, of course, 
required, as people are quite prone to be shy of the 
medical adviser who is forever asking for "speci- 



mens." 



If we place in contrast two families of equal finan- 
cial and social conditions and general intelligence and 
one of these families avoids all association with the 
family doctor except in time of urgent necessity and 
the other family keeps in frequent communication 
with the physician on the lines above suggested, it is 
interesting to consider what may develop in ten years. 
In the first case the family will have acquired no addi- 
tional knowledge of self-preservation. They will have 
perhaps passed safely through some serious illnesses, 
but are still walking along life's pathway blindfolded. 
The other family will have acquired a general know- 
ledge of self-preservation and will have been able to 
detect approaching indispositions so as to bring the 
doctor into such cases while there is yet time to make 
a defensive battle. In the one case the doctor will 
have perhaps been paid considerable sums for the 
treatment of acute illnesses. In the other he may 
have received even greater compensation for constant 
supervision. It ought not to be difficult to decide which 
investment in medical services is likely to prove the 
better. 



Building Immunity to Disease. 39 

Many fairly intelligent men and women suffer a 
great deal from rheumatic conditions. They grad- 
ually come to expect about so much misery from that 
cause. They wait until there is absolutely no possible 
way of avoidance and then call the doctor. The physi- 
cian employs such palliative measures as his expe- 
rience and knowledge of the patient would suggest 
and when the patient is beginning to get fairly comfor- 
table, the doctor no longer figures in the case. It 
does not occur to these excellent people that it would 
be the best possible investment to have a contract with 
the physician to make a study of the conditions under- 
lying these illnesses with the view of perhaps being 
able to eliminate the cause entirely. It would not 
seem to be necessary that a normally healthy man or 
woman who understood the general principles of hy- 
giene should have to endure these repeated rheumatic 
afflictions. If the doctor is given an opportunity to 
make a study of the hygienic habits, the probabilities 
are that in a few months he would have located that 
hygienic error or system of errors or local infection, 
or whatever it may be which has been responsible for 
the trouble. 

As an example, if the capacity of a business man is 
reduced 50 per cent, three months of the year on 
account of lumbago or some other form of rheumatic 
ailment, it would seem to be the best possible invest- 
ment for him to encourage some capable physician in 
making a long-continued investigation of his physical 
organization and thus perhaps have this recurrent 
burden taken out of his routine ever afterwards. 



40 Optimistic Medicine. 

It is easy to conjecture numerous forms of dis- 
ability which are not identified with any organic weak- 
ness, but which reduce the capacity for usefulness and 
enjoyment to a marked degree. Every person who 
has some tendency of this kind can well stop and con- 
sider whether he should not, as a part of wisdom, 
undertake to have this weakness corrected and thus 
become practically normal. 

Biologists have pretty thoroughly demonstrated 
the soundness of the theory that immunity and the 
prospects of longevity are in the main reproduced true 
to type. The man or woman whose ancestors were 
strong and rugged people living to an advanced age 
may reasonably expect similar good fortune provided 
that he or she lives in an equally favorable environ- 
ment. Previous generations have been subjected to 
the wear and tear of life's battle and reached a good 
age. Granting that they have transmitted their vi- 
tality to the present generation, it would seem that, 
with a more adequate knowledge of hygiene and with 
less of the effects of the irritating and corroding in- 
fluences of life, they might maintain health and use- 
fulness to an even greater age. Almost any person of 
reasonable intelligence as an interested party would 
naturally consider it worth while to make a study of 
this problem. 

Assuming that a person with good heredity and 
with fairly good health concludes to make a study of 
self-preservation, he will naturally undertake to make 
the best possible use of such immunity as he may have 
inherited, augmenting same so far as he can by 



Building Immunity to Disease. 41 

development of a reasonably perfect system of nutri- 
tion and with such exercises in the open air as to 
keep his muscles in good condition and with careful 
avoidance of any luxurious habits with which the 
earlier generations were not handicapped. In this 
way he not only keeps his inherited capital of natural 
resistance intact, but may considerably add thereto. 

If such a regimen of common sense hygiene is 
indicated in the case of the fortunate possessor of 
great natural immunity, it is to a far greater extent 
appropriate to the person whose family record is not 
so favorable. 

While a great deal can be accomplished by the 
layman in figuring out the right program for himself, 
he is immeasurably better equipped if he comes in 
frequent contact with some intelligent physician who 
knows his physical strong points and weak points, and 
who is able to estimate the usefulness of any hygienic 
method which may have been under consideration by 
the patient. In this way he is safe from overdoing 
some things and underdoing other things. He is in 
a position to act intelligently all along the line ; so, as 
in practically every attempt at self-development, the 
capable physician is the man of the hour whose 
trained judgment is worth a great deal more than it 
ever costs. 

Of course, it should not be inferred from the fore- 
going that no fairly intelligent citizen is capable of 
estimating for himself the benefits and disadvantages 
of habitual physical exercise, neither does it follow 
that individual preferences in matters of diet are to be 



42 Optimistic Medicine. 

lightly cast aside in favor of some strict scientific 
regimen laid down by the family doctor. The pa- 
tient is perfectly justified in exercising his own judg- 
ment in a large number of instances, provided that he 
understands the underlying physiology. As few 
people uneducated in medicine do understand physi- 
ology, they are in a great deal safer position in at- 
tempting self-development if they proceed under the 
general tutelage of a competent physician. 

It may easily be pointed out by any person of ob- 
servation that it often happens that children of per- 
fectly healthy parents, with a good heredity in the 
background, seem to be handicapped at the start. 
Such instances are by far too common, it is true, at 
least in outward appearance. Nevertheless, it often 
turns out that the substandard child with a good 
heredity eventually develops a remarkable immunity 
to disease. When this is combined with a perhaps 
unusual knowledge of hygiene, resulting from solici- 
tous care on the part of the family doctor, the in- 
dividual will be enabled to reach middle life with far 
better prospects for longevity than some husky play- 
fellow who in early life was apparently able to endure 
anything, but whose heredity was less fortunate. 

Perhaps no more powerful agency for the develop- 
ment of personal immunity can be noted than careful 
avoidance of all undue irritations of the mucous mem- 
branes of the body. This is a very comprehensive 
term when considered in its true significance. Great 
numbers of people in reasonably good health are con- 
stantly doing something which produces this form of 



Building Immunity to Disease. 43 

irritation. Dietetic errors not only affect the stomach, 
but the entire upper digestive tract as well. Perfectly 
sane people persistently disregard the laws of chem- 
istry and of digestion in their selection of foods, with 
the resulting impairment of nutrition and with the 
dangerous element of mucoid irritation as well. Thus 
we have, as a result of these errors, not only inevitable 
physical depression as compared with the thoroughly 
good system of digestion, but dangers of cancer, gas- 
tric ulcer, appendicitis and various other abnormal 
states of the abdominal tract which may develop an 
explosion at any time. Of course, the reason why 
these risks are taken is usually gross ignorance. 

Probably there are few people so ridiculously fool- 
hardy as to deliberately adopt dietary habits which are 
sure to result in physical impairment, if not actual 
danger. So, again, the function of the family doctor 
is naturally suggested. Whenever a patient is brought 
to his attention who shows any evidence of impair- 
ment of the digestion, it would be greatly in the in- 
terest of the patient if the doctor could feel himself 
justified by custom and the approval of the patient to 
thoroughly investigate the habits of eating and the 
character of any unpleasant sensations which may 
have accompanied the process of digestion. Such a 
program carried out might enormously increase the 
powers of resistance as well as modify within the sys- 
tem various danger points which may at any time 
develop into a serious condition. 

Few persons in ordinary life comprehend the true 
significance of immunity. They have an idea that a 



44 Optimistic Medicine. 

person who has immunity is somehow gifted with a 
certain charm to ward off the results of indiscretions. 
Nothing could be more erroneous. Immunity in its 
real meaning of the term means the exercise of good 
judgment in the maintenance of a normal vitality 
which has been inherited from past generations. 
Someone has said that genius was! merely infinite 
capacity for taking pains. Health and immunity may 
be aptly defined in a similar way. Thus immunity or 
the art of self-preservation is not acquired by hap- 
hazard methods. It comes from a perfectly sane 
level-headed study of cause and effect with the under- 
lying knowledge of physiology which the intelligent 
family doctor can make clear in relatively few words 
and which often establishes bonds of sympathy be- 
tween the doctor and patient which are only severed 
by death or removal. 

The vital statistics show a steady increase in this 
country of the proportion of deaths from heart dis- 
ease. The cause of this increased mortality is va- 
riously attributed to the intensive pursuit of wealth 
and the luxuries and pleasures which wealth can pro- 
cure. This is true in a measure, but does not tell the 
entire story. People crumple down and die of heart 
disease because they have lived lives which weakened 
the resistance of the heart to the ordinary wear and 
tear and the inevitable strains. The heart that is not 
kept in a state of integrity by suitable exercise must 
necessarily become less immune to strain. 

An elderly physician who was a magnificent 
physical specimen had gradually become indolent in 



Building Immunity to Disease. 45 

the matter of suitable physical exercise. He had al- 
ways been well, his digestion gave him no trouble, 
and so far as he knew he was in perfect health. He 
decided to take a vacation in the mountains, and one 
day joined a party who were going to take a long 
walk to a point where there was a beautiful view. 
The strain upon this doctor's heart was too great and 
before he realized what was actually happening he 
was in a state of collapse, from which he died within 
a day or two. A merchant who prided himself upon 
his ability to keep in first-class physical shape without 
vacations undertook to take a walk late one night with 
a friend up a long hill. About two-thirds the way his 
heart suddenly gave out and he was helped to his 
home, where he went to bed and never recovered. He 
lived a few months, but his heart was completely ex- 
hausted and he died comparatively in his prime. 

Immunity to weakness of the heart is developed 
by such forms of exercise as will keep that organ in 
proper functional efficiency. An unused muscle is a 
weakened muscle, and if the heart is given long inter- 
vals of complete rest it loses its power of resistance. 

Nothing is better calculated to maintain the func- 
tional integrity of the heart than the habit of doing 
about so much walking each day. It is not necessary 
nor desirable that the heart should be subjected to 
strain, but it should have its minimum amount of 
exercise each day, and that minimum should be a 
liberal allowance of real work. 

There is probably no function in which the doctor 
can accomplish more for the benefit of his patients 



46 Optimistic Medicine. 

than to explain this necessity for constant exercise 
which will bring the heart into functional activity. If 
the heart is kept in condition it can stand an occa- 
sional jolt without danger. Otherwise any person, no 
matter how apparently well he or she may be, can 
easily produce heart weakness which will be per- 
manent. 

No investment of time and money can possibly be 
more justified than to secure the co-operation and ad- 
vice of the family doctor in relation to the various 
forms of exercise. The judgment of the patient may 
be good in general, but the doctor knows the physical 
and anatomical situation far better than even the most 
intelligent patient. Not only is there danger from an 
unwise system of exercise, but there is greater danger 
from no exercise at all, especially where it is the pa- 
tient's custom to indulge freely at the table a naturally 
good appetite. This custom accompanied by insuffi- 
cient exercise is very likely to lead to the habit of 
utilizing in the menu coarse vegetables and fruits for 
their laxative effect. Such foods should be employed 
with caution, as they are notorious gas formers, and 
the accumulation of gas in the stomach may produce 
such pressure upon the heart as to materially reduce 
its functional efficiency. This accounts for some of 
the frequent deaths from acute indigestion. Gas pres- 
sure upon the heart or heartburn should be promptly 
reported to the family physician, who will inaugurate 
a system of that natural relief associated with the 
employment of the laxative waters or even the mod- 
erate use of Epsom salts, which are life savers for the 



Building Immunity to Disease. 47 

heart struggling against the gas pressure above re- 
ferred to. 

There seems to be a totally unexplainable aver- 
sion on the part of many people to the employment of 
laxatives. Such people ought to be guided by their 
physicians, who will explain to them the absolute 
necessity of developing an accurate knowledge as to 
the character and quantity of these remedies which 
may be required to secure a normal condition of the 
stomach and intestinal tract. 

It is only necessary to give a little consideration to 
the foregoing facts to appreciate the recklessness of 
otherwise conservative men and women who try, by 
frequent self-treatment experiments, to materially 
modify the functional activities of their digestive sys- 
tem. A habit is perfectly normal and conducive to 
physical well-being if it is a good habit. When a per- 
son of middle age and with little practical knowledge 
of anatomy, physiology and hygiene undertakes to 
revolutionize his bodily habits, he is assuming very 
considerable risk. It is an old saying that the physi- 
cian who treats himself has a fool for a doctor, as it 
is generally conceded that no one can exercise as good 
judgment in the correction of his own physical ills 
as in making suggestions to others. The old legend 
tells of the farmer who was dissatisfied with the ac- 
curacy of the kitchen clock and took it to pieces, after 
which he put it together again, with the result that he 
had nearly enough pieces left over at the completion 
of the job to make another clock. The jaunty self- 
confidence with which many supposedly intelligent 



48 Optimistic Medicine. 

people will tinker with their own machinery bears a 
similarity to the clock experiment. 

Certain adults who are blessed with good health 
and who pride themselves upon the fact that they have 
never had to consult a physician are usually living in 
a false security. Such people, even if they do oc- 
casionally consult a doctor for a trifling indisposition, 
seem extremely anxious to avoid the appearance of 
having any real need of a doctor's services. They 
consult him for some transitory ailment and keep 
away from the medical atmosphere so long as pos- 
sible thereafter. The physician under such circum- 
stances has no opportunity to make any real appraisal 
of the patient's physical condition. He makes sug- 
gestions for the relief of the intercurrent malady com- 
plained of and will not expect to see the patient again 
for a long time. The doctor is, in fact, much in the 
position of the Canadian Frenchman who told of 
meeting a friend in the road leading a sick horse. 
The friend asked him what he thought was the matter 
with the horse and this was his explanation, "I tu'n 
him aroun, look at his symptom. I say probably got 
cold; probably no/' In a considerable number of in- 
stances the doctor interviewed by a transient who has 
only a brief time to spare for the examination has just 
about as good a chance to determine the real condi- 
tions as in the case of the man with the sick horse. 

Just why it is that so many people of most ex- 
cellent judgment in general affairs should be so un- 
willing to give any physician a half reasonable chance 
to investigate their physical assets and determine their 



Building Immunity to Disease. 49 

points of weakness is one of the mysteries which has 
thus far not been solved. 

This unaccountable aversion to coming within the 
sphere of influence of the physician seems to be ex- 
plainable only as a form of superstition. There are 
people who will long defer making a will because they 
somehow have a feeling that the next logical move for 
them is to take their departure from earthly scenes 
and therefore make the will operative. There are, in 
fact, people who seem to have a similar dread of tak- 
ing out life insurance. Reduced to its elements, such 
sentiment is an extremely childish form of supersti- 
tion, and it is probable that the reluctance of many 
people to have their physical well-being duly ap- 
praised by a doctor is based on a vague theory that by 
keeping away from the doctor altogether they will 
never need the services of one. 

It is apparent that, if men and women are to make 
an intelligent study of the means of producing im- 
munity to disease, they must lay aside their reluctance 
and accept the guidance of physicians who possess a 
practical knowledge along this line. In this way they 
may be safeguarded against the unpleasant results of 
injudicious exercise or of little or no exercise what- 
ever. The term exercise used in this connection re- 
fers not alone to muscles, but to all bodily function. 
It is just as harmful to undereat as it is to over- 
eat and it is equally important that the menu be suit- 
ably selected with its proper proportion of animal and 
vegetable foods. The great danger lies in eating too 
much animal food. Every physician worthy of the 



50 Optimistic Medicine. 

name is ready and willing to discuss such questions 
with his patient who has given some little intelligent 
study to the subject as applied to his own case. In 
this way the patient has the benefit of his own obser- 
vation and experience and the doctor's superior know- 
ledge, while the doctor has the advantage of being 
able to verify his own conclusions as to the status of 
health of the individual by the intelligent suggestions 
of the patient. 

In the production of immunity there figure not 
only the organs of respiration, digestion, circulation, 
etc., but the ductless glands. An overworked thyroid 
has often been found to be the key to much disorgan- 
ization in the ordinary processes of function. Sol- 
diers at the battle front are frequently found to be 
suffering from this form of debility due to overexcite- 
ment. People who allow themselves to become easily 
disturbed and irritated over the ordinary wear and 
tear or friction of life may suffer a similar way. It is 
worth a great deal to an easily excited patient to have 
the family doctor explain the probable relation be- 
tween such unfortunate conditions and that all-im- 
portant governing center known as the thyroid. It 
is reasonable to suppose that such knowledge would 
often exercise a wholesome restraint upon those who 
"let themselves go" when things go wrong. Within 
recent years a good many of the intelligent lay public 
have gradually acquired a certain knowledge of that 
mysterious glandular system, defective function of 
which they have found out is responsible for certain 
types of arrested development. When physicians as a 



Building Immunity to Disease. 51 

class take the trouble to instruct their patients in rela- 
tion to those glands, the influence of such information 
cannot fail to be wholesome. 

Unless some great and universal cataclysm over- 
whelms the human race and civilization is destroyed, 
it is probable that the problems of life will become 
more and more complex. If the intelligent races of 
mankind are permitted to develop to higher and 
higher forms of civilization and higher education be- 
comes more universal, it can be reasonably expected 
that much knowledge which is now regarded as tech- 
nical and only available to trained specialists will in a 
general way at least become available to the masses. 
Under such conditions, the associations of physicians 
and their patients will be more intimate and confiden- 
tial, with results highly gratifying to all concerned. 
When these conditions prevail the contrast with the 
crudities of the earlier days of medical practice will, 
indeed, be great. 

It is pleasant to conjecture a period when a large 
proportion of the duties of the family physician will 
be the direction and supervision of hygienic house- 
holds. It is easy to imagine the gratification with 
which the highly trained physician will see the va- 
rious households with which he is established as a 
general adviser developing such robust forms of 
health as will make his onerous duties in the treat- 
ment of perplexing and ofttimes baffling and acute 
diseases less and less a factor in his professional life. 
Under such conditions association with the physician 
will but seldom carry with it any atmosphere of dread, 



52 Optimistic Medicine. 

but rather an atmosphere of optimism and intelligent 
co-operation on the part of his clients. 

Building immunity to disease, therefore, consid- 
ered from the scientific standpoint, consists of so sys- 
tematizing the processes of digestion and of exercise 
as to raise to the highest possible degree of efficiency 
all of the functioning organs of the body. It would 
seem that the enormous benefits in accomplishing such 
a desirable state of affairs might well justify the lay- 
ing aside of all prejudices and superstitions and the 
establishment of such co-operation between the doc- 
tor and his patients as to reduce mistakes in hygiene 
to the minimum. 

There has perhaps been no better example recently 
of a well-balanced mental and physical life than in the 
instance of the late Joseph H. Choate, for a consider- 
able time ambassador to Great Britain. Mr. Choate 
was a man of wealth, of remarkable culture, and with 
exceptional social gifts. His abilities as an attorney 
are too well known to justify comment. The legends 
of Mr. Choate which have been passed about in recent 
years demonstrate the saving influence of a genial 
sense of humor, which naturally relieved the tensity of 
a life of unusual activity and mental strain. An ex- 
ample of the readiness to which his flexible mind 
could adjust itself so as to bring out the humorous 
side of any topic which chanced to occupy his atten- 
tion is given in his quick reply to a guest who was 
present at the celebration of one of Mr. Choate's last 
birthdays. Asked who he would prefer to be if he 
could not have been Joseph H. Choate, the instant an- 



Building Immunity to Disease. 53 

swer was "Mrs. Choate's second husband." Such a 
retort is only possible when there is a perfect mental 
and physical balance. Mr. Choate was perennially 
young. He was an extremist in nothing, as evidenced 
by the fact that the inventory of his estate included 
a wine cellar, the contents of which were valued at 
several thousand dollars. To hint that Mr. Choate 
was in any way at a disadvantage physically, men- 
tally or morally from the fact that he had a discrim- 
inating knowledge of high-grade wines would be ridic- 
ulous. All of which goes to show that, as aptly 
stated by Lorand, the keynote of healthful immunity 
to disease and the encroachments of time is modera- 
tion in all things. But many there are with whom 
moderation in the use of stimulants is impossible. 
A few people live to a great age and succumb to 
the gradual, but ever increasing, burden of years, but 
the great majority gradually lose their resistance to 
the disease enemies which are always ready to take 
advantage of any break in the defenses. Not only are 
people cut off in their prime or earlier, but the com- 
munity is correspondingly weakened through the loss 
of their productive energies. Every family properly 
instructed by a physician is likely to develop candi- 
dates for the advanced immunity class who live their 
full allotted term of life and accomplish so far as pos- 
sible what their ambition inspires them to do. This 
is normal human existence. It is hard to conceive 
of any more profitable expenditure of the physician's 
time than to assist in increasing the number of 
nonogenarians. 



CHAPTER IV. 
CHILDHOOD AND ITS MEDICAL PROBLEMS. 

THE average infant born of reasonably normal 
parents should start out in life with good physical 
prospects. What that child will be a year or two later 
depends to a marked extent upon the amount of com- 
mon sense possessed by the parents. 

A frequent remark by a certain wise grandmother 
was that one of the most beneficial factors in rearing 
young children was a reasonable amount of whole- 
some neglect. The child that can be well fed and 
cared for and at the same time left to its own devices 
during a good proportion of its waking moments is, 
indeed, fortunate. 

It is a well-known fact in natural history that 
young puppies or kittens that are fondled too much 
are apt to become sickly. The young child that is 
constantly under supervision, continually being talked 
to and encouraged to show off its various characteris- 
tics, is likely to develop overwrought nerves. There 
is little doubt that much of the sarcasm which has 
been directed toward the only child has as a basis the 
too assiduous attention devoted to such a child in in- 
fancy and childhood. Such children are prone to be- 
come self-centered and introspective, which usually 
means in adult years more or less mental instability 
and an unwillingness to assume the responsibility 
which goes with the better grade of citizenship. 
(54) 



Childhood and its Medical Problems. 55 

Probably the foregoing statement is trite and com- 
monplace, but, after all, it cannot be emphasized too 
often. 

It is unfortunate that in this strenuous age more 
physicians do not have an opportunity to closely watch 
the development of the infants over whose advent 
they have presided. In small country towns this cus- 
tom is usually practicable. In cities, owing to the 
habit of many families to move into more expensive 
neighborhoods as the families increase and the par- 
ents become more prosperous, it is quite common for 
these youngsters to pass out of the range of obser- 
vation of the original family doctor. 

Where it is feasible for the physician to exercise 
watchful care over the physical destinies of the small 
child until adolescence or later, it can be seen that it 
is greatly to the advantage of both child and parents. 
The doctor who is familiar with the digestive history 
of the child and who has been brought into consul- 
tation when the common diseases of childhood have 
developed, is pretty sure to acquire a practical knowl- 
edge of the youngster's physical assets. If he can 
come in contact with such children sufficiently often 
to retain a personal acquaintance with them, he is in 
position to exercise a very beneficial influence. 

Nothing is more conducive to such proper physical 
development than the acquirement of the habit of eat- 
ing without discrimination any wholesome food which 
the family menu may provide. What one learns to 
like in childhood is pretty sure to be acceptable during 
the adult years. Whenever a problem presents itself 



56 Optimistic Medicine. 

whereby a child exhibits a fussy attitude toward the 
bill of fare, the doctor should be brought into the case 
to settle the question. A child is very quick to detect 
any inconsistency on the part of the parents, and, if 
the impression is gained that the mother desires the 
child to eat something that is distasteful simply as a 
matter of her own convenience, the youngster is quite 
prone to manifest a rebellious spirit. If in such cases 
the doctor has cultivated an agreeable personal rela- 
tion with the child and explains simply and logically 
the importance of acquiring a liking for all kinds of 
food, the child is very liable to accept the doctor's 
explanation as reasonable, and will conform to the 
doctor's recommendations. This one factor in family 
health is in itself sufficient reason for intelligent par- 
ents to cultivate a personal relation between the family 
doctor and their children. 

Every reasonably sturdy small boy has an ambi- 
tion to appear manly. If the physician makes it clear 
to the youngster that it is a "sissy" habit to be al- 
ways finding fault with the food, it will carry more 
weight than a great deal of expounding of dietetics 
by the interested parents. What appeals to very small 
boys appeals with even greater force to the very small 
girl. 

Most young children have a wholesome dread of 
being delicate. When they acquire habits which are 
detrimental to good health, it is to a much greater 
extent than most people apprehend, because they have 
never been convinced as to the direct relation between 
correct habits of eating and exercise and the robust 



Childhood and its Medical Problems. 57 

good health which every well-born child should 
possess. There is no function of the family doctor 
which is more important to the family and to society 
in general than the establishment of a personal rela- 
tion with the small developing child which will en- 
sure the placing of that child on the right route for 
health and vigor. 

When a boy or girl has reached the reasoning age 
of, say, six or eight years, it should be possible for the 
family doctor to have furnished the rudiments of a 
hygienic education which will materialize positive 
benefits during an entire lifetime. The civic value of 
such a course of instruction is almost beyond calcula- 
tion, while there could hardly be a surer formula for 
a high degree of professional success on the part of 
the doctor than to have the personal approbation of 
the juvenile members of the families under his care. 

Children whose parents are afflicted with anxiety 
neurosis acquire the effects of this neurosis more than 
they inherit the disease. Even a neurotic woman 
may become the mother of a perfectly normal healthy 
child, but when the healthy child has been worried 
over and scolded for slight infractions of hygiene 
and kept in a stirred-up mental state through the ap- 
prehensions of that mother, the effects cannot fail to 
be harmful, unless the child eventually ignores such 
apprehension sufficiently to become immune to it. 

Mothers who begin by dressing their infants too 
warmly are prone to show continual anxiety a few 
years later lest the sturdy appetite of an active child 
leads him to overeat, thus causing indigestion. To 



58 Optimistic Medicine. 

ward off possible indigestion anxious parents will 
often deprive their children of foods which their 
healthy appetites crave and which are eminently suit- 
able, merely because they feel that it would be safer 
for the child to eat more easily digested foods. This 
is a sadly mistaken policy. The active small boy or 
girl should be early accustomed to the use of foods 
which, without overtaxing the digestion, still provide 
the alimentary canal with plenty to do. The pam- 
pered stomach soon loses its capacity. 

On the other hand, the small schoolboy's definition 
of the conical form and mechanical characteristics of 
the human stomach, in the statement that the human 
stomach is a comical shaped body which is capable of 
enormous extension, was probably correct. Therefore 
it is little short of tragedy when the fear that gratify- 
ing the normal and healthy appetite will possibly pro- 
duce indigestion results in the child being deprived of 
its normal inherent right to give that importunate 
stomach of his plenty of occupation. An urchin who 
has never experienced the surreptitious delights and 
subsequent pangs which are associated with green 
apples has somehow been deprived of his birthright. 

One of the most unfortunate of parental delusions 
is found in those cases where the mother gets the im- 
pression that a child must not be made to mind when a 
crisis develops through the fear that the child will 
become nervously unsettled. Many cases of regret- 
table self-indulgence in adults are traceable to this 
unwise viewpoint of parents. The child who is worth 
rearing at all should be subjected to discipline. 



Childhood and its Medical Problems. 59 

The doctor comes in contact with such examples 
frequently in cases of small patients who refuse to 
comply with the requirements of the nurse and es- 
pecially who object to taking medicine. Some of these 
cases are quite perplexing. There is probably no 
province in which the doctor can accomplish more for 
the hygienic benefits of such pampered children than 
in the exercise of a certain amount of tact and whole- 
some advice under appropriate circumstances. There 
are few children who do not possess a reasonable 
amount of family pride, and it is along these lines 
that the physician can get in his work. Even if the 
small boys or girls, show very little respect themselves 
for their parents, they expect their playfellows to 
show respect just the same, and, if the doctor plainly 
points out to those refractory youngsters that, if they 
do not mind their parents, it is going to make their 
playmates lose respect, also, it will start those juvenile 
minds to working, and if they can be made to see that 
an exhibition of disrespect on their part toward their 
parents produces exactly the same attitude toward 
their father and mother on the part of their play- 
mates, the influence is sure to be beneficial. 

It might easily seem to be somewhat remote from 
the daily routine of the family doctor to be assisting 
in the family discipline. Nevertheless, there is prob- 
ably no service which the family physician can render 
which is more worth the financial cost than in in- 
structing young children as to the importance of get- 
ting strong and robust. If they can be made to see 
that the parents are even more anxious to have them 



60 Optimistic Medicine. 

strong and robust and are making rules for their 
guidance solely with the best interests of the children 
at heart, it is easily possible to create a more recep- 
tive attitude on the part of such children and thus 
make them more ready to co-operate with the parents 
and the doctor in adopting daily habits that will make 
them strong and healthy. 

Of course, it can be readily seen that a consider- 
able percentage of weak mothers who overindulge 
their children are of a mental calibre that would make 
them quick to resent anything which they considered 
to be unjustifiable interference by the family doctor in 
their household. But it can also be seen, through a 
little reflection, that the doctor who had sufficient 
backbone to call a spade a spade in such cases would 
be pretty likely to secure the wholesome respect of a 
very considerable number of intelligent people. It is 
also easy to imagine, although perhaps not easy to 
estimate, the enormous benefit which might result in 
many pampered American families if the family doc- 
tor could lay aside any habitual policy of supergrace- 
ful tactfulness, and when in contact with small citi- 
zens who gave the promise of growing up to be spoiled 
citizens in later years were to adopt a form of "shirt- 
sleeve diplomacy." 

We must not overlook the fact that the psycho- 
logical element enters into human life at a very early 
age. Those who amount to something in the general 
economy of communal life are those who are able to 
exercise self-discipline and this same element is of 
almost illimitable importance in the development of a 



Childhood and its Medical Problems. 61 

sound physique. The best possible advice that can be 
given to a person of almost any age with reference 
to any individual "symptoms" is to forget them. The 
person who fears indigestion is always likely to have 
it, and the same law of psychology holds good in the 
case of other bodily functions. To have the right 
attitude is considerably more than half the battle in 
accomplishing most anything desirable to accom- 
plish. Thus it appears that if the small child is trained 
to have the right attitude in its daily routine, develop- 
ment becomes normal and symmetrical. 

The physician who succeeds in appealing to a 
child's sense of humor has done much in the estab- 
lishment of agreeable personal relations. Even the 
most cantankerous children become more pliable when 
the situation becomes amusing. Tense moments lose 
their acuteness and reason asserts itself. This holds 
good so invariably that it is indeed unfortunate that 
parents do not more frequently bring this soothing 
element into common use. The child who will only 
seem to become more stubborn in conflict with the 
parental edict often drops his belligerent attitude al- 
most instantly if it is made to appear ridiculous. 

There are abundant reasons why the physician 
should be regarded as an adviser in shaping the child's 
mental development. Few parents know much of 
psychology and when juvenile mental problems arise 
the doctor is as much needed as in cases of impaired 
nutrition. The best moral instruction alone may not 
produce the effective influence. The sons of doctors 
of good standing will bear very favorable comparison 



62 Optimistic Medicine. 

for general usefulness with the sons of clergymen. 
And so we must conclude that of all the soothing in- 
fluences which may aid in establishing the child's nor- 
mal development, an awakened sense of humor is 
probably the most important. This sense often mani- 
fests itself at a very early age. A lady, accompanied 
by her small son, was making an all-day journey by 
train. The boy, squirming about in his seat, attracted 
the attention of a benevolent looking woman near by. 
She looked approvingly at the youngster and re- 
marked, "Little boy, what makes your hair so curly ?" 
The boy looked at her a moment and then drawled, 
"I don't know, unless it's because I eat so much hash." 
The mother was much disconcerted, but with such evi- 
dence against her did not think there was any use in 
attempting a denial, although hash was a very in- 
frequent part of the family menu. 

Owing to the frequency with which a slight in- 
digestion or other form of indisposition may cause a 
rise of temperature in young children, it is hardly 
practicable for the family physician to be called in all 
such cases. 

Certain routine instructions conveyed to the par- 
ents by the doctor will suffice in most instances. If 
a child is ailing and there is simply evidence of fever, 
the first thing which the mother should do, of course, 
is to examine the throat. If nothing unusual is re- 
vealed by such examination, it may be assumed for 
twenty-four hours at least that quiet and a careful 
diet will probably bring about a normal condition. 
Even with the disappearance of the fever, however, 



Childhood and its Medical Problems. 63 

there may be no apparent appetite temporarily, but 
this is but natural. The small child is often better 
qualified to decide whether to eat or not than the 
parents. If there are no other unfavorable symptoms 
and the child is normally healthy, it is pretty safe to 
assume that the appetite will manifest itself in due 
season and that the child will make up for all lost 
time. A doctor of experience well stated the case in 
the following words: "Leave it to him; he knows 
better than you do whether he wants to eat or not 
and whether he ought to eat or not/' In fact, as 
aforestated, this is generally the case. The adult 
after an attack of indigestion will often force matters 
by some form of tonic and tax the stomach beyond 
its requirements under the existing circumstances, 
while the child, not hampered by the little knowledge 
which is sometimes such an embarrassment, will wait 
until the digestive tract is in readiness to receive and 
properly digest the normal and sometimes abnormal 
quantity of food which is urgently called for by the 
average child after a period of deprivation. 

In earlier days the presence of typhoid fever in the 
neighborhood afforded frequent opportunities for dis- 
play of apparently remarkable skill on the part of the 
attending physician. A bad indigestion followed by 
temporary fever of several days' duration was often 
regarded under those conditions as probably typhoid 
fever, and when the symptoms suddenly subsided and 
the temperature became normal, the doctor acquired 
the credit of having "broken up" a bad case of ty- 
phoid. Such professional feats are seldom heard of 



64 Optimistic Medicine. 

at present. But there is yet occasionally an instance 
where a grateful family will congratulate themselves 
on having a family physician possessed of such ability. 

It is interesting to note the marked contrast in 
the attitude of different families residing under simi- 
lar conditions in the same neighborhood. In one in- 
stance there will be found the family which comes in 
contact with their physician through the habit of 
calling for professional assistance whenever there is 
any evidence of the slightest ailment in the household. 
Perhaps not more than three doors away will be a 
family where the children seldom if ever know what 
it is to have the services of a doctor. With the latter 
type of parents it may be usually assumed that they 
regard their more anxious neighbors as being under 
the sway of their family physician for exploitation 
purposes. This theory will often seem to hold good 
for a considerable time, but sooner or later the family 
which has been immune from the apparent need of 
medical attendance will need a doctor very badly and 
will have to have the services of some physician who 
knows practically nothing as to the constitutional 
characteristics and early history of the patient. On 
the same principle certain people save themselves con- 
siderable expense for fire insurance, which, however, 
they need very badly should the unexpected happen. 

It is probable that many comparatively uneducated 
parents are really sincere in their belief that having 
the family under the supervision of a physician tends 
to a habit of coddling the children. In the main, how- 
ever, it is thrift rather than ethical considerations 



Childhood and its Medical Problems. 65 

which causes so many children to pass through their 
developing years without professional attention, re- 
sulting unfortunately in many instances in some neg- 
lected form of perversion which would have been 
promptly detected by a competent physician, perhaps 
averting a lifelong weakness or untimely breakdown. 

These sins of omission on the part of the parents 
are not altogether their own fault. It is natural that 
people of thrift with the quite common worshipful 
attitude toward success should prefer as their medical 
adviser the doctor with a big practice. Physicians 
who have this reputation are apt to have considerably 
more to do than they can give proper attention to and 
are quite prone to pass over their ordinary routine 
cases very superficially. This is a great disadvan- 
tage to the patient and also a detriment to the stand- 
ing of the medical profession at large. What could 
be more natural than that parents who get the im- 
pression that the most successful doctor in the com- 
munity had failed to give proper attention to their 
children should become prejudiced against regular 
practitioners and drift away to become the dupes of 
those of limited education who claim a vast superi- 
ority over graduates of high-grade medical colleges? 

It is clearly in the civic interest itself that over- 
worked physicians should divide their patients with 
fellow-practitioners who have not the special personal 
magnetism to attract large numbers to their offices. 
Many a physician of excellent qualifications is never 
appreciated. If the overworked doctor who has some- 
how become the vogue would exhibit a fraternal spirit 



66 Optimistic Medicine. 

toward his colleagues, it would be much in the public 
interest and also be a great advantage to the medical 
profession as well. A prompt visit by a less-sought- 
after physician may be of much greater assistance 
than the delayed visit of the practitioner who has more 
serious cases on his mind to such an extent that he 
can hardly bring himself to devote even a few min- 
utes to the patient in question. 

A woman lived on a farm at a point so remote 
that busy town physicians disliked to make the jour- 
ney there. Finding physicians so reluctant to an- 
swer her calls, she solved the problem for herself as 
she, explained to one of her acquaintances. She said 
that she had decided that her best policy was to keep 
herself supplied with different kinds of patent medi- 
cines and use her own judgment. It may not occasion 
surprise to add that one of her two children, a young 
man, who should be in superb health, is a wreck. 

While we pride ourselves upon our enlightenment 
as a free people, and justly, too, it is only in recent 
years that our children have begun to receive a modi- 
cum of the attention and civic care that they are en- 
titled to. Public schools, through medical inspection, 
are beginning to exercise supervision over their 
pupils, with the object of detecting structural defects 
at a time when they may be at least partially remedied. 
But even this system is often carried out in a per- 
functory way that fails to accomplish the desired 
object. The school physician cannot be expected to 
give more than superficial attention to such cases. 
He makes recommendations which in a few instances 



Childhood and its Medical Problems. 67 

stir up the parents to proper action, but are in far too 
many instances practically ignored. And yet a great 
majority of families who send children to public 
schools take pride in having these pupils suitably 
dressed and adequately fed. They do not realize that 
while being even lavish in the equipment of their 
children they are neglecting that which is far more 
important to their later success in life and which 
would cost comparatively little by comparison. 

As stated before, physicians are often reluctant to 
make recommendations lest the parents should con- 
sider them as meddlesome. A physician may give 
attention to an interesting child of six and take it 
through a brief intercurrent illness and not see that 
child again for five years. During that interval con- 
ditions may have developed which could have been 
easily remedied, but which through the neglect or ig- 
norance of the parents, are allowed to produce struc- 
tural defects which will persist during life. Such in- 
cidents are often little less than tragedy. 

If physicians as a class would adopt the custom of 
tactfully assuming a personal interest in all children 
which come under their observation and would make 
a thorough examination with the object of recom- 
mending correction of physical defects and such a 
policy would become universal with doctors, the bene- 
fits thus resulting would be beyond computation. 
Every family doctor should call the parents' attention 
to any neglect of the teeth and should explain to 
parents, especially mothers, the all-importance of a 
correct posture. 



68 Optimistic Medicine. 

Such a professional policy would no doubt require 
considerable time in the aggregate, but it is difficult 
to believe the average family of even moderate intelli- 
gence would not appreciate the interest shown and 
acquire the custom of bringing the doctor into more 
frequent relations with the family, thus permitting 
opportunity for this very important supervision over 
the physical development of the growing child. It is 
hard to conceive of any more congenial phase of medi- 
cal practice for the red-blooded family practitioner 
than in watching the hustling youngsters of his clien- 
tele and making sure that they had a "square deal" 
at their critical formative periods. 

The healing art is one of the noblest of callings, 
but it is burdened with numerous conventional cus- 
toms which are greatly at variance with modern en- 
lightenment. Under existing conditions most physi- 
cians construe it to be their duty to remain in the back- 
ground in matters of family health, unless their inter- 
vention is requested. This works very well in the 
matter of adult affairs. Men and women of maturity 
are free agents, and are supposed to be in possession 
of mental faculties which will enable them to decide 
whether or not they need professional inspection. But 
this philosophy cannot be applied to young children. 
Their parents are responsible for their welfare, and 
if they are ignorant or indifferent, the children must 
suffer the consequences. Reluctance to suggest reme- 
dial measures to adults in a family being visited by a 
physician may be justified; but wherever the doctor 
goes and there are young children, custom should per- 



Childhood and its Medical Problems. 69 

mit the doctor to show an interest in the health status 
of these children without same appearing to be med- 
dlesome or evidence of a commercial instinct. A little 
wholesome tact on the doctor's part can often open 
the way to the location of some impediment to health 
in a growing child. That professional delicacy which 
stands in the way of such obviously practical measures 
should be relegated to the rear, with many other forms 
of excess baggage with which doctors have been in- 
cumbered in the past. 

No one realizes quite as much as the doctor does 
the crimes which are committed against many chil- 
dren by their often well-meaning parents. There 
ought to be some way to bring these parents to ac- 
count, and there is no one who can do it quite as well 
as the doctor can. Unfortunately, many doctors, be- 
lieving that they will probably find trouble enough in 
their pathway without hunting for it, adopt the policy 
of strict non-intervention. Hence the parents com- 
placently proceed with their child management and 
carry out any quaint or fantastic theory which may 
take possession of them. 

Nothing is perhaps more harmful from the civic 
standpoint than the grotesque conceptions of the proc- 
ess of nutrition which well-meaning, but ignorant, 
parents sometimes acquire from neighbors and irre- 
sponsible propagandists and perhaps newspaper 
writers. They are as illogical as the celebrated author 
who figured out a suitable ration for his dog. A friend 
calling at the author's bungalow in the country was 
told by the colored maid that he was absent. The 



70 Optimistic Medicine. 

visitor, lingering for a few moments, chanced to 
notice a lean and melancholy dog nearby. Being fond 
of dogs, he called to him, and he came dejectedly for- 
ward. He asked the maid what seemed to be the 
matter with the dog. "Oh! he's jes' stubborn," was 
the reply. "He won't eat his tomatus." The visitor 
was astonished. "Won't eat his tomatoes?" he said. 
"What do you mean by that?" The explanation was 

forthcoming at once. "Mr. , he says tomatus 

is a puffec food for dogs. This dog he is stubborn 
and won't eat his tomatus." 

Much good can be accomplished by the removal of 
the child's usually vague misconceptions of the func- 
tions of the stomach. Many quite intelligent parents 
are nearly as much in the fog in such matters as their 
children. If it be explained that the stomach is a sort 
of receiving station where the different food elements 
are classified, assorted and utilized in the human fac- 
tory, it will seem less mysterious. And if it can be 
made clear that the introduction of inharmonious sub- 
stances into the stomach at the same time may result 
in these discordant elements starting a free fight 
among themselves, it becomes more comprehensible. 
For example, it can be explained that while liberal 
helpings of pink strawberry ice cream and ripe red 
watermelon are all right if kept apart, they are con- 
siderably like the cat and dog when crowded together 
in a child's stomach. 

Such illustrations may easily make impressions 
that will be lasting when dissertations on greediness 
will be soon forgotten. 



Childhood and its Medical Problems. 71 

Any moralizing homilies which will discourage the 
normal buoyant optimism of childhood are always un- 
wise. It is a regrettable situation even when the adult 
acquires a distrust of the good intentions of his stom- 
ach. The child should be given to understand that, 
with anything like reasonable indulgence of the appe- 
tite, everything will be all right. Parents often little 
realize how lasting are the impressions of childhood. 
The small boy or girl whose only association with 
the physician is at some time of stress will often 
acquire a dread that will persist into adult life, and 
cause avoidance of medical attendance too often until 
some serious condition has arisen which at an earlier 
period might have yielded to treatment more readily. 

Few young children arrive at the age of ten or 
twelve without having manifested some subacute con- 
dition which suggests a trip to the doctor's office. 
The child which is pale and anemic, the healthy look- 
ing child with a generally bad breath and coated 
tongue, the round-shouldered child, the child who 
complains of rheumatic pains of the joints, and many 
others, all require a general overhauling by the physi- 
cian. And when this is done and the small patient 
appreciates the benefits resulting, he has acquired a 
useful lesson and will probably never join the ranks of 
those who in a crisis seek for guidance at the shrine 
of the medical magician or next-door neighbor. 



CHAPTER V. 
ADOLESCENCE AND THE FAMILY DOCTOR. 

To unthinking parents the manifestations of ado- 
lescence often constitute merely an annoying problem. 
To those who are wiser this period is of the most in- 
tense interest and even amusement. 

The child that has heretofore been placid and 
amiable under nearly all conditions may develop a 
sudden and apparently unaccountable tendency to irri- 
tability and self-sufficiency. The egotism of this stage 
of development is, indeed, often perplexing, and if 
parents show a lack of consideration at this time they 
may, to a considerable extent, lose their personal in- 
fluence over their children for all time. It is essen- 
tial under such conditions that there be manifested a 
wise forbearance and charitable attitude. In this way 
the parents can exert a wholesome direction of the 
mental processes during the most formative period, 
and after a year or two will be rejoiced to see the good 
results follow this method of meeting the situation. 

Because the boy or girl that has always been tract- 
able and easily managed suddenly becomes stubborn 
and rebellious is no indication that the child is going 
to the dogs. It is merely the manifestation of per- 
sonality without that proper balance of the common 
sense and good judgment which under fair condi- 
tions will be seen later. There is probably no better 
corrective for the cocky self-satisfaction of this period 
(72) 



Adolescence and the Family Doctor. 73 

than a little wholesome ridicule. When adolescent 
egotism can be made to appear absurd, it soon sub- 
sides, for adolescence is peculiarly sensitive to the ap- 
pearance of being inconsistent. It is those who are 
past middle age who feel that they can afford to be 
inconsistent. 

Some parents have an idea that it is undignified 
to explain the reasons why they disapprove of the 
plans of their children at this age. This is a mistake. 
There should always be a reason given whenever it is 
necessary to exercise any unusual degree of restraint, 
as boys and girls in the early teens are very likely to 
develop a high sense of personal dignity and impor- 
tance. If this dignity is ruffled unceremoniously and 
ignominiously it breeds a feeling of resentment which 
is very unfortunate. 

There is no such important contract ever under- 
taken by parents as the education of their children into 
capable, responsible, and well-meaning citizens. If 
the father hires a young clerk, he expects to show a 
reasonable amount of patience in training this clerk 
to become useful. He gives the reasons why such and 
such things should be done. In a similar way the 
mother of a household who engages a young domestic 
expects to have to devote a considerable amount of 
time and patience in training this helper so that she 
may know what to do and the reasons therefor. If 
such policy is pursued in the ordinary business affairs 
of life, it follows that in the development of men and 
women a much greater amount of judgment and pa- 
tience is required in order that the children may re- 



74 Optimistic Medicine. 

tain absolute confidence in not only the affection, but 
also the good judgment, of the parents. 

It does not follow, however, that, through zeal to 
exercise the most helpful supervision over their chil- 
dren parents should manifest any lack of confidence. 
It is an unfortunate situation indeed when children 
feel that it is a smart thing to be able to "fool" 
their parents by doing prohibited things on the sly. 
It is a natural thing to expect that some children at 
this stage of development will occasionally overstep 
the bounds of their parents' wishes, but they will not 
do this to any harmful extent, as a rule, if they under- 
stand their parents' motives in exercising restraints. 

In extending a guiding hand in the regulation of 
their children's affairs parents are commonly actuated 
by two purposes : First, they wish to safeguard their 
children's health; second, they wish to guard them 
against improper associations. Here, as before men- 
tioned, it is not sufficient that parents should lay down 
a rigid rule of action, but that they should also ex- 
plain the reasons for any restriction that they should 
place about their children's movements. Gradually 
these suggestions become absorbed, and the children 
develop protective faculties of their own. The two 
basic factors of the future social usefulness of these 
young people are health and morals. There should be 
sufficient time devoted by parents to explaining these 
details so that their children may fully understand 
their importance. 

Unfortunately, while it is theoretically possible for 
parents to exhibit adequate judgment and wisdom in 



"Adolescence and the Family Doctor. 75 

meeting the problems of adolescence, practically few 
parents have sufficient knowledge to deal with these 
questions without bringing the family doctor into con- 
sultation. Whenever a boy or girl of this trying age 
shows a finicky appetite at the table or manifests un- 
usual mental traits, or has failed to develop a sym- 
metrical physique, it is as important that a competent 
physician be brought into the family counsels as it is 
that the child be sent to the dentist at regular intervals. 
Every stoop-shouldered boy or girl needs medical at- 
tention, unless their parents possess much more than 
the average knowledge of hygiene. At this age the 
parental admonitions to "straighten up" no doubt 
help; but if the recipient of this advice be sent to the 
doctor to talk over the case an impression would be 
made that is likely to be of much more benefit. Some 
defect in diet or other hygienic habit will be revealed 
that will furnish a clue to the cause of the physical 
deficiency. 

Busy housemothers of reasonable intelligence usu- 
ally try to see that their young children adopt the 
habit of brushing their teeth, but, owing to the 
peculiar adolescent temperament, a few emphatic 
words from the family dentist will usually create a 
greater impression than oft-repeated reminders by the 
mother. 

One of the advantages of poverty is the inability 
of the children of such households to indulge them- 
selves in the alternation of sweets and pickles which 
figures so conspicuously among certain pampered off- 
spring of the prosperous. The children of the aver- 



76 Optimistic Medicine. 

age poor are neither overfed nor overclothed, one of 
the interesting consequences of which is the develop- 
ment of an apparent immunity to certain diseases. 
They become accustomed to hardship, although fre- 
quently stunted in growth, and, of course, placed at a 
disadvantage in mental development. Nevertheless, 
the city family in poor circumstances which may be 
deprived of its bread winner is generally far better 
able to look out for itself than the middle-class family 
accustomed to all the usual comforts and suddenly 
thrown upon its own resources. 

It is commonly reported that recruits for the army 
who come from city slums bear up under the hard- 
ships of army life much better than the boys who come 
from comfortable homes even on the farms. Al- 
though the farm boys are used to outdoor life and 
present a healthful appearance, they are not prepared 
to endure wet clothing and broken hours of rest. 
With such well-established facts it should be possible 
to make very useful deductions. 

A housemother who is wise enough to see the 
advantage which may result from having the assist- 
ance of the family doctor when her children are at 
the adolescent stage, can probably see greater benefits 
result from a few dollars thus expended for profes- 
sional fees than could possibly be obtained from much 
greater expenditure in any other way. 

The boy or girl of twelve to fourteen years of age 
may have become practically immune to the constantly 
repeated words of counsel from parents as to the im- 
portance of observing certain hygienic rules. But 



Adolescence and the Family Doctor. 77 

when they are taken in hand by a physician and it is 
explained to them that their future health and useful- 
ness may depend to a very considerable extent upon 
their adopting the right mode of living at that partic- 
ular stage of their development, and the reasons 
therefor are explained in a general way so as to be 
thoroughly comprehended, it cannot fail to make a 
beneficial impression. It can be taken as an accepted 
fact that practically every boy or girl has an ambition 
to appear to advantage in the eyes of his or her young 
associates. If it is made clear to a growing boy that 
by avoiding certain hygienic errors he will become 
more rugged and athletic, and the general principles 
of nutrition, ventilation and exercise are made clear 
to him, as any intelligent physician can easily do in a 
few short interviews, it may easily result in a com- 
plete change of attitude. By similar reasoning, if a 
young, growing girl is made to realize that the adop- 
tion of a rational system of eating will have an im- 
mediate and beneficial influence upon her personal ap- 
pearance and practically ensure robust health in later 
years, she may in that way be induced to avoid some 
of the customs which have contributed far too often 
to that delicacy of physique so commonly observed 
in many American families in easy circumstances. 

Two correlative facts may often supply the deter- 
mining motive in turning these useful citizens in the 
right direction, viz., the adolescent male secretly de- 
sires to appear at a physical advantage in the eyes of 
his young feminine associates, and the adolescent 
feminine, however indifferent she may appear on the 



78 Optimistic Medicine. 

surface, has some underlying motive for appearing at 
advantage in the eyes of the boys. If these children 
can be fully impressed by the physician with the im- 
portance of proper nutrition, suitable clothing, correct 
posture, and ventilation as a basis for good looks, the 
problem is practically solved. 

One of the hopeful tendencies of the present period 
is the custom among dentists of noting any abnor- 
mality of the mucous membrane of the mouth and 
throat and advising consultation with the doctor. It 
is certainly equally desirable that the family physician 
call the attention of parents to the importance of con- 
sulting the dentist when the necessity is apparent. The 
value of the child is, of course, great in the family 
circle, but the child is also an important asset to 
the community, and the sooner all social influences 
are directed to the conservation of child health, the 
better for all concerned. 

It is a regrettable fact that the majority of parents 
fail to appreciate the vital importance to their children 
of having them receive the right counsel and super- 
vision of health at the adolescent stage. It may even 
be excusable by comparison to exhibit some apparent 
neglect of younger children, but at this period of 
development care and watchfulness is all-important. 
Physical growth is likely to be rapid, and proper 
nutrition is of the utmost importance. The boy or 
girl at this period craves plenty of meats and other 
nitrogenous foods, which should be supplied in abun- 
dance, even if some self-sacrifice is involved on other 
members of the family. It is about this stage that 



Adolescence and the Family Doctor. 79 

the germ of tuberculosis may be implanted and secure 
a lodging place. Nothing is more discouraging to the 
same germ than to have the blood richly supplied with 
protein elements. Abstention from such foods a few 
years earlier or later may not be so harmful, but at 
this particular stage it is dangerous. It is for this 
reason that the physician should be given access to 
the situation. Parents who read periodicals have 
great opportunities for acquiring ideas on diet, nutri- 
tion and general hygiene. Unfortunately, many of 
these suggestions are furnished by faddists and en- 
thusiasts, and are misleading rather than beneficial. 
The doctor who knows the family history is the 
authority who should have the say about such matters 
whenever a question arises. The doctor is in posi- 
tion to explain the inconsistency of many so-called 
hygiene experts who have contributed to the great 
oversupply of literature on this subject. The large 
appetite for wholesome food which is manifest at this 
period is or should be a source of gratification to 
parents. 

Perhaps there is as much that is unreliable in the 
suggestions for clothing and ventilation as in any 
other department of hygiene. There are writers of 
repute who make great claims for the beneficial effects 
of what is generally regarded by parents as insufficient 
clothing. Their hobby is the importance of children 
being "hardened" so as to become immune to changes 
in temperature. It is easy to carry this idea to very 
harmful excess. It is a well-known fact that young 
farm animals thrive a good deal better if they are not 



80 Optimistic Medicine. 

required to shiver. Young cattle don't make the 
proper growth unless they are shielded to a reason- 
able degree from exposure. As in so many other 
matters, it is simply a question of moderation. Just 
because cattle kept in a warm and unwholesome atmos- 
phere will develop bovine tuberculosis is no indica- 
tion that they should be kept during the cold weather 
in open sheds. So while it is very desirable that 
children should have good air to breathe and not be 
swathed with such an abundance of clothing as to 
make them tender, it does not follow that they should 
be required to go half clothed and subjected to a 
degree of hardship which inevitably reacts upon their 
health and development. In cases of doubt the family 
physician should be asked to give his ideas as to what 
will be best adapted to the individual case in hand. 

A physician of note recently published in a prom- 
inent medical journal a review of dress and its rela- 
tion to health. Contrasting the prevailing modes of 
feminine dress with that of the men he attributed the 
comparative immunity to catarrhal colds enjoyed by 
women to their mode of dress, which he says is rapidly 
approaching that of the Scotch Highlander. He sug- 
gests that men would be equally immune if they were 
to clothe themselves less warmly, entirely ignoring 
the general structural differences between the male 
and female. A little reflection shows a very different 
reason for the ability of women to withstand cold, the 
average healthy woman being supplied with a develop- 
ment of adipose tissue directly under the skin, which 
not only contributes to the rounded symmetry of her 



Adolescence and the Family Doctor. 81 

figure, but also provides a warm, fatty blanket, which 
naturally withstands the onslaught of cold air. As 
these anatomical differences are manifest at an early 
age, it is apparent that there is a perfectly natural 
reason why boys' clothing in general stores will be 
found on examination to be much heavier and warmer 
than that supplied in the girls' clothing departments. 

Children that are too warmly or not sufficiently 
clothed are very prone to catarrhal conditions of the 
upper respiratory tract. These states aggravate any 
abnormality of the nose and throat of congenital ori- 
gin, and if allowed to go uncorrected may very mate- 
rially affect the future health and even the intelligence 
of the child. Therefore it is the duty of all parents 
who naturally wish to do their very best to secure 
lives of future health and usefulness for their children 
to have their adolescent boys and girls carefully ex- 
amined by a competent physician at reasonably fre- 
quent intervals, in order that any structural abnor- 
mality may be detected in its incipiency and promptly 
corrected if possible. 

Naturally in family and social importance the 
question of morals is not secondary to that of health. 
Numerous writers have supplied a great abundance 
of literature which they designed to provide impor- 
tant biological information for the comprehension of 
the adolescent mind. It is doubtful if these books 
have accomplished 10 per cent, of the good they are 
recommended to produce. The average healthy boy 
or girl is not naturally impressed by the denatured in- 
formation which may be suitably incorporated in books 



82 Optimistic Medicine. 

for them to read. If parents, as may frequently be 
the case, desire to have information dealing with the 
reproduction of the species passed on to others than 
themselves, there would seem to be no more suitable 
person to assume this responsibility than a physician, 
especially in urban communities, where feminine prac- 
titioners are available. But the real impressive moral 
lesson can generally be best provided by the parents 
themselves in pointing out the real significance of the 
occasional social tragedy which unfortunately occurs 
often enough in almost every community to at least 
provide the desired moral effect. Such instances are 
concrete and real, and their consequences are appar- 
ent, and at this age the impression produced is almost 
invariably lasting. 

If it were not really a serious matter, it would be 
amusing to consider the importance which is some- 
times attributed to adolescent eccentricities. In point 
of fact, these children are often far wiser than they 
are given credit for being. If they can be supplied 
with the knowledge of the real facts they are liable 
to conduct their affairs with much more judgment 
than might be expected. Mistakes made by the im- 
mature are usually due to an ignorance of the facts. 
It is the parents' duty to see that so far as possible the 
children are enabled to act with the intelligence that 
comes from general information. Because a boy or 
girl commits some act which indicates turpitude is no 
indication that when they understand the possible con- 
sequences of such an act that they will not change 
their course of action. A resident of a rural neighbor' 



Adolescence and the Family Doctor. 83 

hood, just about leaving his home, overheard a con- 
versation between his wife and a small girl of the 
neighborhood, whose home environment was not what 
it should be, in the course of which the girl told a 
pitiful story to the effect that her mother was quite 
ill in bed and wished to borrow a small quantity of 
tea. The request was granted and in the meantime 
the man had started down a shady lane in the direc- 
tion of the residence of the girl's family. As he was 
nearing a thicket by the roadside, the small girl passed 
him on the run, going around a curve in the road. 
The next moment the alleged sick mother emerged 
from the bushes and eagerly asked the girl, "Did you 
get it?" An interesting detail of the case is that the 
girl thus employed in such a devious errand a few 
years later made an excellent marriage to a young 
man of good family and became an estimable woman 
exhibiting no apparent trace of the bad training she 
had received from a worse mother. 

The intimate relation between good health and 
good morals justifies further consideration of the sub- 
ject. Social workers have found that the main essen- 
tial of health and morals is intelligence. A person 
may be educated and still be sadly lacking in intelli- 
gence. Conversely some very intelligent people have 
little education. The all-important thing in laying the 
foundations for the future healthfulness of children 
is to so develop their intelligence that they may be 
able to appreciate correctly the relations between cause 
and effect. To accomplish this very important object 
it is necessary that the parents or natural guardians 



84 Optimistic Medicine. 

create a capacity in adolescent children to estimate the 
daily routine details at their true value. This, re- 
duced to its lowest terms, constitutes intelligence. 
Some parents attach a wholly unnecessary importance 
to children's quarrels, whereas they should always 
endeavor to have a participant in one of these dis- 
agreements understand, if possible, the point of view 
of the other. This gives the child poise and self- 
restraint, and creates the habit of understanding that, 
inasmuch as we are all human, it is only to be expected 
that we are all liable to make mistakes, and that the 
good qualities of everyone should be brought into the 
balance to weigh against their bad qualities. The 
mental equipoise thus secured is worth a great deal 
more than it could ever cost. 

Perhaps the most important foundation of equable 
temperament is a good digestion. Nevertheless it is 
perfectly possible for a person to find a good digestion 
to a considerable extent a handicap. A magnificent 
digestion and intellect are frequently strangers. The 
ox has three stomachs and probably knows little of 
the pangs of dyspepsia. The horse, on the other 
hand, has a more delicate digestion and requires much 
greater care in feeding. Nevertheless the span of life 
of the horse is double that of the ox, while the grade 
of intelligence of the horse is probably four times that 
of the ox. A somewhat similar comparison may be 
made between the turkey and the goose, about the 
only points of similarity between them being that they 
are nearly the same size and both wear feathers. The 
turkey knows practically nothing except to eat, 



"Adolescence and the Family Doctor. 85 

whereas the goose is comparatively intelligent. The 
days of the turkey are usually short and full of trouble, 
but the goose may live to a great age. And so if a 
child is fortunate enough to be able to appreciate the 
real significance of the daily happenings and to esti- 
mate them at their approximate importance, this habit 
of analysis will persist during life and exercise a 
marvelous influence upon the functions of both body 
and mind. 

The discomforts of life are either physical or men- 
tal. To be able to appreciate the causes of these dis- 
comforts naturally tends to eliminate them, thus pro- 
ducing equipoise and normality. 

It is at about this period of development that 
young girls acquire a passionate fondness for certain 
articles of food and an equal distaste for others. 
When such occasions arise a trip to the doctor is very 
much to be recommended. The protestations of the 
mother may not prove equal to the situation. But 
the doctor can explain how important it is that a 
person should be .able to eat almost all varieties of 
food. They can make clear to these incipient young 
ladies that it is not exactly good form to be fussy 
about eating when being entertained. That in itself 
has some weight with a bright young girl who does 
not wish to appear at a disadvantage in that way. 
Further than that it can be explained that the use of 
some of the coarser foods and vegetables is absolutely 
necessary to the proper functioning of the intestinal 
canal. With an understanding of the real scientific 
facts the matter will take on a very different aspect. 



86 Optimistic Medicine. 

Every normal boy or girl desires to be vigorous and 
thus be able to avoid illness. If all this is made clear, 
and it is understood that the use of diet restricted 
chiefly to meats and starches will tend to a more fre- 
quent development of indigestion, rises in tempera- 
ture, and a muddy complexion, the parents' task with 
that girl will be much simplified. It cannot be im- 
pressed upon the public too strongly that the less the 
digestion has to do the less it is capable of doing. 

The chief qualifications of the family physician 
are his technical knowledge of the healing art and his 
philosophy of life. Of these two factors in profes- 
sional success, the latter is often of the most impor- 
tance in dealing with normally healthy children. The 
influence which a wise physician may exert upon the 
adolescent boys and girls of his clientele is practically 
without limit. An interview with a doctor at this 
age may be retained in the memory throughout an 
entire lifetime. Many physicians acquire a great 
aptness of speech in meeting different situations, and 
the thing to be regretted is that they do not come in 
contact with many of their patients often enough. 
The following illustrates this desirable qualification 
on the part of the practitioner. A woman who had 
considerable bronchial trouble visited her dentist one 
morning and he told her a certain tooth should be 
extracted. Knowing her physical history, he sug- 
gested that perhaps some form of anesthesia would 
be an advantage, but that she better have her family 
doctor decide what it should be. She accordingly 
went to the doctor, who was just starting on his 



Adolescence and the Family Doctor. 87 

rounds, and put the question to him. His reply was 
prompt and effective. "The best thing I know of to 
use in your case is a good dose of spunk/' And that, 
indeed, proved to be all the anesthetic that was 
required. 

Nothing meets with so quick a response from the 
family doctor in his relations with children as an 
appeal to this same quality, spunk. A child accus- 
tomed to the sympathetic ministrations of an anxious 
mother will often develop great reluctance to the tak- 
ing of medicine or otherwise submitting to the re- 
quirements of the situation. When the family doctor 
airily appeals to their spunk, and assures them that 
he knows they are game, and that they are not going 
to whine and make a fuss over something that is 
going to put them back where they can play and have 
a good time once more, the response is pretty apt 
to be satisfactory. Some of the bravest patients are 
children, who become brave because they are stimu- 
lated by the doctor's manner into forgetting to be 
sorry for themselves. Self-pity is just as depressing 
in adolescence as it is in any other age, and is one 
of the greatest of handicaps in disease or in health. 

In the average family the boy or girl that has 
passed through the various perils of early childhood 
and reached the age of twelve or thirteen with an 
appearance of reasonable vigor, is generally con- 
sidered to have ceased to be a hygienic problem. It 
would be better in many instances if it were other- 
wise. The adolescent of either sex often requires even 
more careful watchfulness than the younger child, 



88 Optimistic Medicine: 

for the reason that it is the age when physical defects 
are accentuated, and unless properly corrected are 
made permanent. 

An astigmatic child can usually get along with 
reasonable comfort in the earlier years, but will often 
be seriously handicapped before entering the teens. 
Therefore the status of the vision should be accurately 
determined and the question decided whether or not 
glasses are necessary. Mouth breathing in early 
childhood disassociated with adenoids may often be 
attributed to a condition of coryza which is quite 
common at this period, but if it persists after the age 
of ten or twelve, something is wrong and a physician 
should be appealed to. Parents should never feel 
that they have done their duty by their children until 
they have a correct knowledge of the conditions of 
the teeth and upper respiratory tract. Abnormalities 
of this nature are practically sure to produce per- 
manent stigmata and constitute a handicap through 
life. 

There are many intelligent parents who exercise 
excellent judgment in the care of their children dur- 
ing early childhood and adolescence, but the quality 
of their judgment is best determined by their readi- 
ness to have their children subjected to medical in- 
spection at frequent intervals. 

About the only thing of value in the correct rearing 
of children that does not carry with it a considerable 
financial cost at this period is fresh air. Most people 
are so situated that they can at least supply that im- 
portant element to their growing children, and it is 



'Adolescence and the Family Doctor. 89 

probable that the importance of fresh air to breathe 
is recognized by most families of any reasonable in- 
telligence. It is not sufficient, however, to supply the 
fresh air. The child must be taught how to utilize 
it to the best advantage. This involves not only ven- 
tilation, but the development of correct breathing 
habits. Probably no better investment for any family 
could be mentioned than payment of a small profes- 
sional fee to a competent physician in order that the 
breathing capacity and habits of a child may be care- 
fully estimated and proper instructions received for 
the correction of any defects or bad habits. The man 
or woman who knows how to breathe properly and 
can exercise this function without handicap through 
some obstruction of the respiratory tract has a great 
deal better chance to become an efficient citizen than 
otherwise. It is not enough that parents should ap- 
preciate the importance of this. They should see that 
their children have the benefit of professional super- 
vision, as the doctor of the most ordinary attainments 
must of necessity possess a greater knowledge and 
better judgment for the correction of any defects of 
this nature than the wisest parents ignorant of tech- 
nical medical science. 

One of the occasional tragedies that comes to the 
attention of physicians is the child with a condition 
of the joints which the parents optimistically diagnose 
as rheumatism. It would be well for society in gen- 
eral if the public could be made to understand that in 
childhood there is practically no such thing as chronic 
rheumatism of the joints. Any condition of this na- 



90 Optimistic Medicine. 

ture which persists requires most careful consideration 
by a competent physician. To average parents it 
seems entirely unnecessary that a child in apparently 
good health should be required to rest in bed for a 
period of weeks or months because of some sensitive 
knee or hip joint. It often happens, therefore, that 
children thus afflicted are either allowed to go without 
medical attention altogether or, when a doctor is con- 
sulted, his recommendations are not carried out. Such 
carelessness may and often does result in a permanent 
crippling of the child. 

It is not at all surprising that parents who would 
look upon any failure to carry fire insurance on their 
house and contents as reprehensible carelessness 
should habitually take chances in safeguarding the 
healthfulness of their children. Custom sanctions 
that form of negligence, and in a measure physicians 
encourage it themselves. The attitude of some doc- 
tors when repeatedly consulted on hygienic problems 
is one of amused tolerance or even raillery. Parents 
don't like to appear in the eyes of their neighbors as 
"making a mountain out of a molehill," so they 
"guess" that the child that has a good appetite and 
no rise in temperature will come out all right. But 
the time is rapidly approaching when the attitude of 
both physician and parents will be changed. It is 
certain there should be no more congenial task for a 
physician whose attention is largely directed to the 
care of serious cases than to be able to discuss ques- 
tions of individual cases where the principal problem 
is one of hygiene. 



Adolescence cmd the Family Doctor. 91 

If the custom of greater professional supervision 
of growing children should be established, the nature 
of a physician's duties would be materially changed. 
The greater the amount of time and talent devoted to 
prevention, the less the mental strain and professional 
care involved in rectifying the consequences of neglect. 
It is merely another application of the formula that 
the stitch in time saves nine. 

It is not sufficient that the parents of adolescent 
children should be of good intentions. Some very 
satirical comments have been made from time to time 
about good intentions. Whenever they are in doubt, 
it is the duty of parents to secure advice from a 
physician. 

The mother of good intentions often wonders why 
it is that her boy or girl is so "delicate." She caters 
to their whims and prepares delicacies to tempt the 
deficient appetite, but far too often she does not see 
any occasion to consult a physician. Physicians of ex- 
perience can usually guess pretty nearly as to the 
dietary habits of a twelve-year-old girl by the appear- 
ance of her tongue. He can form a fairly accurate 
idea of the hygienic requirements in a three minutes' 
inspection. It is therefore eminently suitable and 
business-like for parents, instead of fumbling about 
in their comparative ignorance, to have a competent 
physician lay down a hygienic program to be carried 
out carefully and systematically. 

One of the common mistakes made in cases of de- 
pressed nutrition, as per above, is where the mother, 
instead of taking her young daughter to the doctor's 



92 Optimistic Medicine. 

for a general overhauling, manages to consult him 
herself, incidentally with some other errand. Natu- 
rally the doctor is rather guarded in his decision under 
the circumstances. He guesses that financial pru- 
dence underlies this method of bringing the subject 
before him and offers a few suggestions on general 
principles which are out of deference to the apparent 
good intentions and social position of the mother. 
The general social welfare requires that he refuse to 
make any suggestions whatever until after a careful 
inspection of the patient. Country doctors, however, 
often hesitate to take this position out of regard for 
possible economic factors which may enter into the 
case. Let us hope the time is not far distant when 
they may be more outspoken. 

The adolescent child has a value to the public as 
well as to the parents. 



CHAPTER VI. 
THE HOUSEMOTHER WHO WORRIES. 

IT is unfortunate that the woman who, in ful- 
fillment of her destiny, marries and rears children 
should in so many instances add largely to her domes- 
tic burdens by allowing the germ of worry to gain a 
lodgment in her mental system. 

When the carefree maiden assumes the responsi- 
bilities of looking after a household she has to bring 
about a complete readjustment of her mode of life. 
If she is of an optimistic nature and of reasonably 
good health, the process of the change need not be 
especially burdensome. But if she is lacking in self- 
confidence, even ordinary household cares will weigh 
heavily. When to these are added the nurture of 
children, it is only necessary that the habit of anxiety 
be added to prepare the way for a life of physical and 
mental strain, if not eventual invalidism. 

There is probably no one who can do so much in a 
few words to inculcate a healthy mental attitude in the 
young housemother as the family physician. Some 
doctors, realizing this, endeavor to correct any mor- 
bid tendencies which they may observe, but many 
others refrain from what might possibly be construed 
as an intrusion into family affairs, and ignore this un- 
fortunate characteristic, to the very considerable 
detriment of the victims of such habits. 

There is probably no mental habit among Ameri- 
can women which is more laden with evil physical 

(93) 



94 Optimistic Medicine. 

consequences to that element of society in which it is 
found than the anticipation of trouble. Women who 
are possessed with this anxiety neurosis find abundant 
opportunities for the entertainment of this undesir- 
able mental guest. Any slight indisposition in the 
family circle assumes a menacing form. Through 
fear that trouble will come to them, they seem to go 
out and hunt for it. They see slights among their 
friends where no slights are intended. The grocer 
of the best intentions cheats them. They are sus- 
picious of their maids, question the motives of their 
children, and keep themselves in a continuous fer- 
ment of unrest. Carried to its logical conclusion, 
such tendencies take all the pleasure out of family 
life. 

When a physician has occasion to prescribe for a 
nervous woman with husband and children, he needs 
to become a veritable sleuth. More times than other- 
wise the real cause of this class of physical ailment 
is based upon some form of mental perversion. It is 
practically impossible to catalogue the consequences 
of this propensity. 

Examples of this perverted line of reasoning are 
found where women with the worry habit are left 
widows with the maintenance of young children on 
their hands. Suspicious of the motives of their real 
friends, they will often listen to suggestions for in- 
vestment which are made by plausible strangers, fre- 
quently with disastrous consequences. The woman 
thus left to battle alone who rises to the occasion and 
rears her children to be gpod citizens is usually the 



The Housemother Who Worries. 95 

optimist whose mind is not poisoned and depressed 
by doubt, fear, and suspicion. 

Any trained business man will agree that mental 
depression distorts the judgment and ofttimes reduces 
the business capacity to the lowest minimum. The 
same rule of psychology which applies in business 
applies in the household, and no one is so well prepared 
to make these lessons clear to the housemother as the 
family physician, familiar with the physical condi- 
tions of the different individual members of the family, 
and with the economic conditions as well. There is 
little advantage in prescribing digestive tonics and 
nerve panaceas unless the corroding cause of this 
trouble can be removed. Comparatively few of the 
lay public appreciate the untold possibilities associated 
with mental depression. An example is the following. 

A clergyman who was naturally apprehensive and 
who by rigid economies had succeeded in saving a 
little money was induced by a relative to invest this 
nest egg in a business enterprise. A little later the 
borrower became financially involved and the poor 
clergyman found himself in danger of losing all he 
had. In the bankruptcy proceedings the clergyman 
was placed upon the witness stand and subjected to 
vigorous cross-examination. Although there w r as 
nothing hostile in this line of inquiries, the clergyman 
took it very seriously, and his anxiety and anguish at 
what he considered to be a crisis in his affairs were so 
great as to bring about complete prostration, with 
collapse of the digestive functions. He never recovered 
his health. 



96 Optimistic Medicine. 

This instance illustrates the natural morbid con- 
sequences of the worry habit. This clergyman was 
possessed of the anxiety neurosis which reached its 
culmination when he was subjected to a little unusual 
strain. 

It is said that there are only two classes of men 
who do not understand women: the men who are 
married and those who are not married. It is prob- 
able that in the abstract the average doctor under- 
stands the married feminine better than anyone else. 
It is to the doctor, therefore, that appeal should be 
made to save the neurotic housemother from herself. 
Things which to an outside party are the simplest 
possible to understand are often the most difficult for 
a certain type of woman to estimate at their real value. 

Every grown-up man will remember that in the 
elementary schools the girls were generally the quick- 
est to learn numbers; but the modern high-pressure 
woman seems to have forgotten that there is such a 
thing as addition and subtraction, at least as relating 
to her reserve energy. She wastes this vastly im- 
portant dynamic reserve with a prodigality that often 
produces a subconscious question in the mind of the 
onlooker as to whether the woman is quite right in 
her head. Very often this is the crux of the whole 
situation in building up the overtaxed mother of a 
family. 

In a great number of cases the doctor will find that 
all such details as diet, tonics, and recreation are in 
reality subsidiary to the main question, which is to 
prevent the patient from squandering her nervous en- 



The Housemother Who Worries. 97 

ergy. When it can be fairly impressed on a woman 
of this type that it is not only possible to overdraw 
this reserve, but, on the other hand, to build it up, 
much will have been gained. Great significance may 
be associated with success in this endeavor. The doc- 
tor who has taught one of these victims of misdirected 
zeal to appreciate not necessarily her limitations, but 
her capacity for rebuilding under fair circumstances, 
may have changed the entire history of a family. 

In providing this essential line of instruction it is 
important that nothing be done to arouse apprehen- 
sion. To tell any person that he must do certain 
things or he will become prostrated is often to hasten 
the untoward event itself. While he may need the 
warning, he needs encouragement more. Therefore 
the stress that is placed on the desirability of building 
up a nervous efficiency that will enable the interested 
party to stand the jolts of ordinary wear and tear 
opens up an exceedingly attractive vista, and is en- 
couraging and constructive rather than the reverse. 

One of the common manifestations of a progress- 
ive loss of nervous reserve is thus seen in the woman 
who works "on her nerve." A counterpart to this is 
observed in small children who remain in the city 
through a hot summer. At the beginning of the 
heated term they will become unduly active as the 
weather grows hot. After a few weeks evidences of 
exhaustion will appear, and they will become languid 
and indisposed to activity. Naturally the proper policy 
with both types is to restrain such unnatural activity 
at the outset, thus holding in reserve, so far as pos- 

7 



98 Optimistic Medicine. 

sible, the natural nervous energy. Everyone knows 
how exasperating it is to overwrought children to tell 
them they must not persist in the play that enthralls 
them, but must stop as it is bad for them. However, 
to divert their attention to something more quieting 
and picture out to them how nice it would be to get a 
good sleep and rest and feel fine the next day, some- 
how appeals. One policy is pessimistic, depressing; 
and the other is optimistic and constructive. The 
comparison between the overworked housewife and 
the child that plays too hard will not seem illogical 
to those who have had actual experience with both 
types. 

Again comparing the hign pressure housemother 
with her children, you find a marked dissimilarity in 
attitudes. The greater the anxiety on the part of the 
mother, the more marked the self-sufficiency of the 
child. The mother who allows her children to know 
that she is anxious about them plays into their hands. 
The teacher in the schoolroom who displays a similar 
mental attitude soon knows the meaning of trouble. 
The lack of poise on the part of the mother supplies 
an almost superhuman poise on the part of the chil- 
dren they are trying somewhat unsuccessfully to con- 
trol. The distracted hen who has hatched out a flock 
of ducks and has seen them march out deliberately, 
heedless of her protest, into the water, has her human 
counterpart. In fact, the anxiety which hens often 
manifest over their offspring may in a measure ac- 
count for the interest which many women take in 
poultry raising. 



The Housemother Who Worries. 99 

At no time does woman conserve her health and 
energies so well as when assuming that attitude of 
calmness, repose, and self-poise which has character- 
ized most of those women whose names have come 
down through the records of time. The girl who, in 
the premarried state, kept her admirers "guessing" 
has only to retain this pose in the management of her 
children and the power of suggestion will do the rest. 
So we see on every hand the two types of mothers; 
the one, calm, self-possessed, an enigma to her chil- 
dren, and who controls them with apparent ease ; and 
the other urging and imploring her children to do the 
right thing and so evidently afraid they will not do the 
right thing as to reveal her entire incapacity to govern. 
The same relates to other relationships, friends, rela- 
tives, maids. The woman whose social and family 
attitude is always more or less of an imploring one, 
naturally dissipates her health and energies and event- 
ually loses all her personal force and influence. 

These considerations may seem somewhat remote 
from the routine of the busy family doctor, but they 
constitute the crux of a great number of clinical 
problems. 

To live a normal life one must systematically ac- 
cumulate a sense of fatigue as the day draws to a close. 
The person who has put in a busy day and feels "tired 
as a dog" and to whom the bed "looks good" has pre- 
pared himself for a good night's rest and a refreshing 
sense of renewed strength the next day, provided that 
the tax upon the nervous system has not been out of 
proportion with that upon the muscles ; hence the su- 



100 Optimistic Medicine. 

preme importance of teaching those adults who are 
carrying heavy burdens, especially women, to make a 
study of preserving this proper equilibrium. The 
physician who educates his people in this respect will 
find he is appreciated all out of proportion with what 
might seem to be the value of the service. It enables 
a person to make a proper estimate of his reserve 
powers. Such is just as useful in its place as any other 
knowledge of the daily routine, and is calculated to 
dispel the habit of worry. It is the vague, mysterious, 
impending calamity which is prostrating to the aver- 
age man or woman, and to know how to dispel worry 
is to enter upon a new existence in a large majority of 
cases. Many functional disorders seem to disappear 
with the banishment of worry. 

When the mother of a family with an anxious 
trend of mind has had made clear to her by the family 
physician the functional disturbances which are more 
or less surely identified with apprehension, it stands 
to reason that any person of tolerable intelligence will 
endeavor to avoid mental habits which invariably lead 
to physical discomfort. By being able to associate 
the effect with the cause, even the most primitive type 
of individual must instinctively seek to prevent that 
which inevitably leads to the unpleasant effect. One 
great advantage in these interpretations by the family 
physician is that it teaches parents to recognize early 
signs of abnormality in their children, who, under the 
circumstances, are naturally brought to the physician 
for attention before such conditions have become se- 
rious. This raises the standard of medical practice to 



The Housemother Who Worries. 101 

a much higher plane. There is nothing especially 
romantic or alluring in relieving the unpleasant con- 
sequences of gluttony or any other form of excess. 
The physician who can lift his daily routine to the 
study of the correction of moderate abnormalities in 
people who should easily develop a good physical con- 
dition is sure to have an opportunity to extend that 
field of endeavor and will acquire an increasing zest in 
his professional work rather than that sense of weari- 
ness and disgust which eventually overtakes the physi- 
cian who is constantly trying to correct the results of 
gross ignorance. Satisfaction of accomplishment of 
actual results that are a permanent benefit to the com- 
munity is great, and no day is ever quite long enough 
for the physician who is engrossed in such congenial 
tasks. 

A familiar salutation of a generation ago was 
"How do you think you feel?" This was before the 
days of specialists in suggestion and so merely a catch 
phrase. In these times it has a great deal of signif- 
icance. While a person's health depends upon fairly 
efficient function of the basic bodily organs, and while, 
if busily employed at congenial tasks, these functions 
may be maintained perhaps for years, nevertheless 
the real sense of well-being which makes life worth 
living is based upon a natural optimism, which, re- 
duced to its elements, simply means taking a cheerful 
view of everything. It would be well if the words 
"keep cheerful" could be incorporated in every pre- 
scription written by a family doctor. This does not 
imply a selfish lack of sympathy for the world's mis- 



102 Optimistic Medicine. 

fortunes, whether they are personal ones or more 
remote. We hear of people who are "as cheerful as 
the mourners in the rear coach." It is not probable 
that these same mourners in the rear coach are lack- 
ing in sympathy, but that they have accustomed them- 
selves to the trials of this life so as to be able to throw 
off the incubus on all possible occasions. Women 
who are disposed to take a sombre view of life should 
be advised to sing at their work when possible. The 
woman who sings and the man who whistles gen- 
erally keeps cheerful and thus relieves the drag upon 
the bodily functions. 

Of course, it might be said that change of scene 
will accomplish wonders for mental and physical de- 
pression. This is so evident that it does not admit 
of argument. It is unfortunately a fact, however, 
that comparatively few housemothers are eligible to 
this form of suggestion. Mostly they have to "stay 
by the stuff" year in and year out, and change of 
scene is as much beyond their reach as a limousine. 
A better suggestion from the family doctor is to urge 
his worrisome woman patient to look about her and 
see how habitual pessimism and apprehension works 
out with others. She will not have to look far to see 
examples which, in the light of this new suggestion, 
will be very educational in their influence. What 
seems to be virtue in the first person becomes very 
tiresome and unattractive in the third one. It is like 
getting a real good look in the mirror in a new light. 

Probably no mental habit is more calculated to 
dispel the atmosphere of conjugal romance than the 



The Housemother Who Worries. 103 

development, by the wife, of a sombre outlook upon 
life. The average breadwinner prefers to do what 
worrying seems to be necessarily associated with his 
business affairs, and, if anything like a normal man, 
he leaves his business burdens behind when he sets 
out for his home at night. If he finds his wife op- 
pressed by household cares and prepared to fill his 
ears with tales of woe, he has the alternative of tack- 
ling the hardest job of the day and exerting himself 
to cheer her up, or of getting through the evening 
meal as expeditiously as possible and then seeking a 
more cheerful environment. Too often he adopts the 
latter course, perhaps with the result of giving his 
wife something real and tangible to worry about. 
Naturally the latter state of the woman is worse than 
the first. So we have, as a result of her yielding to 
the little warping cares of domestic life, one of those 
silent tragedies where the husband and wife outwardly 
present the appearance of conjugal harmony greatly 
at variance with the facts that is, unless the mutual 
dissatisfaction leads to an open break. 

Many a woman of anxious temperament, yoked 
unequally with an optimistic husband, regards herself 
as a family martyr when the husband is the real 
martyr or could be if he would. To be sure, an easy- 
going husband can carry optimism to excess, as in- 
dicated by the New England legend which tells of the 
woman who roused her slothful husband from slum- 
ber early one morning and said, "John, do you know 
that all we have in the house to eat is a turnip?" "Oh! 
well," was the reply, "it isn't every poor devil 



104 Optimistic Medicine. 

that has a turnip." So saying, he turned over for 
another nap. 

While these domestic jangles are primarily of 
social significance, they are so plainly causative of 
depressed function as to be life shorteners. They 
therefore come within the domain of the physician. 
Certainly the clergy will hesitate to interpose in mat- 
ters so difficult to determine. The mother-in-law who 
might be supposed to possess some knowledge of such 
a household is not noted for her success in pouring 
oil upon the troubled waters. But the family doctor 
can adjudicate many domestic problems from their 
association with the inevitable depressing results upon 
the health. He is in a position to point out the effect 
and identify it with the cause. 

When all is said on this important subject, there 
can be but one logical conclusion, which is, that all 
that is possible should be done to educate the Ameri- 
can people as to the consequences of overtaxing the 
nervous system the national vice. The stimulating 
climate, social ambition, the desire to have not only 
the necessities, but the luxuries, all tend to develop an 
overwrought nervous state. This means a lower 
power of resistance in successive generations, and 
especially nervous instability. Many estimable citi- 
zens are on the borderline between mental poise and 
insanity. They need to be told how to read the danger 
signals. This is a task which rests with the medical 
profession. The doctor who devotes the major part 
of his efforts to tinkering on the stable door after 
the horse is stolen is not getting much satisfaction out 



The Housemother Who Worries. 105 

of his profession. Because he does not like to meddle 
with people's personal affairs he adheres to a rigid 
conventional code, regardless of consequences, in the 
families under his supervision. The place to begin 
that line of instruction is with the mothers of families. 
The woman who can read plainly the signs of oozing 
of the nervous reserve, either in herself or in others, 
must be a very irrational person or she will endeavor 
to arrest the process of waste. 

One of the most valuable services which can be 
rendered by the family doctor is in developing an 
optimistic belief in the mother of a family as to the 
vital force of her children. Many women who are 
kept in ignorance of family hygiene come to regard 
the raising of their children to maturity as largely a 
matter of luck. If a child in the community succumbs 
to pneumonia superinduced by the gross ignorance 
or carelessness of its parents, it is but a natural result 
of a definite, preventable cause. Naturally a physi- 
cian does not talk about parental neglect, at least 
specifically; but he can point out the effect which 
follows bad judgment on the part of parents in the 
care of their children, and comment on the revealed 
capability of the child to recover after a hard tussle 
with some intercurrent illness. 

In order to comfort parents who have been bereft 
of their children, well-meaning friends, and especially 
the clergy, often refer to the untimely death of healthy 
children as acts of Providence. This is naturally 
soothing to a woman who has exhibited gross careless- 
ness in the care of the child; but it is nevertheless con- 



106 Optimistic Medicine. 

trary to public welfare. It would be well if every case 
of the unnecessary sacrifice of children through the 
ignorance and neglect of their parents could be def- 
initely made clear to the community. 

Given half a chance, practically every normal child 
will weather the storms of childhood and develop into 
maturity with a strong, rugged constitution. Excep- 
tions are a small percentage, where through accident 
or unusual direct exposure to disease a case is hope- 
less from the start; but a much larger class of fatali- 
ties can be traced directly to the ignorance, laziness, 
and general incapacity of the parents. 

The mother of children of fair intelligence, prop- 
erly instructed, and who is conscientious, should not 
be allowed to gain the impression that the rearing of 
her children to maturity is a matter of luck. It is, 
on the other hand, a matter of practical assurance of 
success if she uses proper judgment and sees to it that 
certain physical defects do not sneak in and obtain a 
lodgment with her children without her knowledge. 
If instructed that she can safeguard their physical 
status just as she looks after the well-being of their 
teeth by occasionally having her offspring inspected 
by the doctor, and that their safety is otherwise chiefly 
a matter of giving them the right things to eat and 
keeping them properly clothed, with plenty of exercise 
and fresh air, it is calculated to lift a burden of real 
or subconscious anxiety from many a household. 

One of the most depressing symptoms of the house- 
mother who is possessed of the anxiety germ is self- 
pity. By comparison with some of her girlhood 



The Housemother Who Worries. 107 

friends who have acquired the conjugal status without 
the responsibilities of offspring, her lot seems hard 
indeed. The more she thinks it over, the larger the 
"lump" in her stomach. She cannot see why she should 
be tied down by children and her old chum in high 
school should be floating around every night with her 
equally carefree husband. The physician should be 
alert for the detection of any of this form of mental 
depression, and should point out in plain American 
language the great superiority of the wife who is rear- 
ing future American citizens by comparison with any 
married woman on earth who is childless. 

Occasionally there is a woman who scorns to en- 
tertain the idea that she is a martyr because she has 
a heavy burden of care of children. A girl of good 
family in a New England town married a promising 
young man and there were children. The husband 
was unfortunate in business and there were more 
children. Whereupon it naturally followed that the 
wife and mother of the numerous brood had a pretty 
hard time to get along and care for her family. In a 
burst of confidence one day she told an intimate 
woman friend that it had been a hard struggle, indeed, 
but the hardest thing she had had to contend with 
had been the numerous instances of misdirected sym- 
pathy on the part of her friends with few or no chil- 
dren, who could not understand how, with her large 
family, life could be anything but a horror. And yet 
from an outside standpoint it is easy enough to under- 
stand the attitude of the average married woman with 
the conventionally small family. Overindulgence of 



108 Optimistic Medicine. 

the only child can usually be depended upon to develop 
characteristics that will make the misguided parents 
glad, indeed, that they have but one. 

A great deal of unnecessary anxiety is endured in 
silence by women whose children present unusual 
physical characteristics. Subconsciously they often 
develop habits of indulging some child with dietetic 
idiosyncrasies or an unusual nervous temperament. 
When the doctor gives suggestions as to a proper 
selection of foods, he often ignores that which is of 
far greater importance. He fails to make clear to 
the mother the reason why "one man's meat is an- 
other's poison." A child that consumes too many 
sweets, and has an antipathy for milk, and becomes 
excitable and a source of continuous care to parents 
is not necessarily a little angel making a very brief 
stay upon this planet. The spiritual appearance of the 
child in most cases should suggest a marked correction 
in the child's habits rather than the too-fair-for-earth 
diagnosis. The woman who slaves to satisfy the 
whims of such a child during its first few years of 
life can be expected to keep on slaving after the child 
has arrived at maturity. The physician who has the 
assurance to convince such a mother of her mistake at 
the outset has conferred one of the greatest possible 
favors. The only practical way to rectify such a sit- 
uation is in explanations of physiology and psychology. 
Any sensible woman who understands these two 
sciences in their application to a child of unusual tem- 
perament is pretty sure to adopt an optimistic attitude 
and language which will be reflected in the child itself, 



The Housemother Who Worries. 109 

and perhaps completely transform the entire family 
atmosphere. 

For, after all, optimism is the great panacea. Mrs. 
Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch was an optimist and a 
source of inspiration to the entire neighborhood. 
Possession of such a temperament is worth far more 
than millions and the luxuries which they will buy. 
A great number of housewives with young children 
would be optimistic if they only knew a little more of 
that same physiology and psychology. They would 
then be able to provide their children with the right 
food, ventilation, and exercise, and would understand 
and estimate their little twists of temperament at 
their real value, thus developing a child's strong 
points, and so managing as to cause their bad points 
to shrink and disappear. The doctor is a hard- 
worked member of society. He has a great deal on 
his shoulders ; but nevertheless he is the logical person 
to provide this necessary instruction. 

Among the great achievements of the present age 
general popular enlightenment is not the least re- 
markable. Every physician now appreciates more 
than ever before the transcendent influence of the 
mind upon the human body and its functions. The 
benefits of wealth, friends, social position, and a highly 
developed system of education may, indeed, largely 
be neutralized by the habit of mental depression and 
pessimism. Under the baneful influence of a habit- 
ually despondent mental attitude, the digestive proc- 
esses become perverted, the elimination of toxins re- 
tarded, and the span of life materially shortened. 



110 Optimistic Medicine. 

Many otherwise highly intelligent people are more or 
less addicted to this habit, chiefly because they do not 
appreciate its consequences. Under such conditions a 
vicious circle is established and the mind and body act 
and react upon each other. 

In determining the contributing causes of the mor- 
bid state of health of mothers of families the habitual 
mental attitude should be weighed as carefully as 
any other item in the symptomatology. Very often, 
if the facts were known, the mental state would as- 
sume predominant importance. It is not enough that 
the doctor should advise such a patient to be cheerful. 
He should take the time to explain fully to the com- 
plete understanding of the victim of these vicious 
mental habits just what the effect is, not only upon the 
members of the family and the circle of acquaintances, 
but upon the general functional efficiency of the pa- 
tient. There are hosts of women who, if thoroughly 
enlightened in these respects, possess the intelligence 
to radically change their attitude. It can be done, and 
the physician with a fair knowledge of psychology 
can tell how it may be done. 

The great panacea for mental depression is the 
development of a sense of humor. There is not a man, 
woman, or child of ten years and upwards who does 
not come in contact every day with circumstances and 
curious idiosyncrasies that possess in themselves all 
the elements of the incongruous and the humorous. 
Everything which will produce a laugh in the house- 
hold is a therapeutic agent of the highest importance. 
Indeed, in the general analysis, it often happens that 



The Housemother Who Worries. Ill 

there is no one who contributes more to the cheerful- 
ness of the fairly intelligent family than the person of 
abnormal seriousness who can never see the funny 
side of things. Such people should be, if possible, 
laughed out of their self-consciousness, and thus 
forcibly required to become normal beings. 

A common figure of speech of an early era de- 
scribed the acquisition of certain mental kinks as hav- 
ing been absorbed with the mother's milk. This theory 
would hardly bear the light of our present knowledge. 
Many a mother of children with profoundly serious 
views of life, and whose children might naturally be 
expected to develop a sombre temperament, has been 
laughed and ridiculed into habitual optimism by these 
same children after they had reached the age of un- 
derstanding. Perhaps there is an antitoxin in the 
nutriment supplied by such mothers that exerts a more 
benign influence than has been commonly believed. 
Let us hope so at least. 

Under the beneficent influence of the optimistic 
temperament friends spring up on every hand, good 
qualities of people assume supremacy over their bad 
qualities, the pestiferous pranks of the small urchin 
appear in a comical light, the monotonous daily grind 
assumes a new interest, and the complicated human 
mechanism takes on a new efficiency. Millions of 
American housewives possess the intelligence to ap- 
preciate these facts at their real value if they could be 
explained carefully by the family doctor. It is a large 
contract, but the doctor is accustomed to larg;e con- 
tracts. 



CHAPTER VII. 
THE TUBERCULAR SUSPECT. 

ONE of the greatest questions of the present hour 
and perhaps of the next century is the correct defini- 
tion of the rights of the individual. 

While it may be conceded without argument that 
society may and justly should protect itself from the 
individual, it is a basic principle in all Anglo-Saxon 
countries that there must be no encroachment upon 
the inherent rights of the same individual, no matter 
how humble may be his situation in life. A system of 
government formulated solely from the standpoint of 
the welfare of the social state in general is intolerable 
in the eyes of every self-respecting citizen. 

Tuberculosis is a menace from which the com- 
munity must be protected. In order to accomplish 
this it is very important that physicians and sanita- 
rians have the confidence and co-operation of the 
people in the tenements. There is enough social unrest 
already. There must not be added to any unreasonable 
feeling on the part of the poorly educated people that 
they are being exploited economically a further im- 
pression that the health authorities are a natural 
enemy. 

Therefore when it becomes necessary that the 
tubercular patient of the tenement districts go to a 
state institution, it is not only important that every- 
thing be done to remove any feeling of resentment on 
(112) 



The Tubercular Suspect. 113 

the part of the family of the patient through his forced 
removal, but the patient's idiosyncrasies, his power of 
resistance to cold, and his digestive peculiarities 
should be given such consideration that when he comes 
back to his friends, the reports he makes will be calcu- 
lated to create a sense of confidence and satisfaction 
among his relatives and friends. 

One of the most important questions which has a 
bearing upon the prevention of tuberculosis is the 
rapidly mounting price of milk. While a community 
may naturally be desirous of excluding from its mar- 
kets milk of tubercular herds, the wholesale applica- 
tion of the tuberculin test to dairy cattle seems to be 
inevitably followed by a shortened supply of milk. 
The question may therefore well be raised whether 
some system of division of the herds that will permit 
the milk of apparently healthy cows, which, however, 
have shown tuberculin reaction, may not under a sys- 
tem of careful pasteurization be used with safety. 
Otherwise the alternative seems to be so high a price 
as to induce many people of large families to econo- 
mize in the use of milk beyond the lines of safety. 
The rapid expansion of tuberculosis among the chil- 
dren in the war zones in Europe shows what happens 
when the use of this natural food is too much re- 
stricted. 

According to the popular mind, a person is either 
tubercular or not. If a person is affected with tuber- 
culosis, that person is a suspect, an object of question 
and doubt. If they are not infected with the tuber- 
cular germ they are normal. Therefore it is easy to 



114 Optimistic Medicine. 

imagine the sense of dismay and often of despair 
which overtakes the person who feels that he has been 
"accused" of tuberculosis. 

Of course, this is all absurd from the standpoint of 
the physician. There are many people who go through 
life in very good health apparently who might have 
at some time in their history shown the characteristic 
reaction from tuberculin. Fortunate circumstances 
and abundant nutrition have enabled them to over- 
come this enemy in ambush before they have even 
suspected its presence. 

A prominent physician of ability some years ago 
after extensive clinical experience declared tubercu- 
losis to be primarily a nervous disease. Year after 
year he took advantage of every opportunity to em- 
phasize that belief. Naturally, the medical profession 
in general do not accept that view, believing that the 
nervous condition associated with tuberculosis is the 
result rather than the cause of the infection. Never- 
theless it seems to be most common among practi- 
tioners to look for a tubercular cause for nervousness. 

Now, in the instance where a nervous patient falls 
under the suspicion of a certain type of physician and 
is told in an impressive manner that he probably has 
tuberculosis, a sort of panic takes possession of the 
patient. The physician in such a case departs entirely 
from the conventional mode of handling the average 
nervous case, and instead of holding out every en- 
couragement, with the object of building up the pa- 
tient's confidence and inspiring him with a determina- 
tion to recover normal physical poise, he practically 



The Tubercular Suspect. 115 

destroys such remaining confidence as the patient has 
been able to retain. The tactless type of physician 
does this apparently because of the idea that it is his 
duty to society to point out definitely and positively 
every tubercular case. Such a policy, even if neces- 
sary, can be carried out in a manner little less than 
brutal. As said before, nothing should be done if it 
can possibly be avoided that will add to social unrest. 

There are cases where patients, naturally optimis- 
tic and of iron nerve, may be promptly advised that 
there are reasons to suspect tubercular infection. It 
may even be expedient to frighten them a little, in 
some instances, in order that they may be induced 
to exercise that degree of prudence which will hold 
out the hope of arresting the infectious process. But 
even then it is questionable whether it is expedient to 
impart such a dismal warning, unless there is con- 
clusive evidence of actual involvement with the dread 
disease which may infect others. 

Allusion has been made to rest and good food as 
the chief upbuilding factors in all conditions holding 
out the suspicion of tuberculosis. A third factor may 
be mentioned which is equally important, namely, an 
optimistic attitude on; the patient's part. It is a diffi- 
cult task for the physician to inspire that optimistic 
attitude coincidently with the announcement of what 
many neurotic patients would consider a death sen- 
tence. Suppose, on the other hand, that the patient 
is allowed to believe that, whereas he has symptoms 
which are often associated with pulmonary involve- 
ment, those symptoms may quite probably be due to 



116 Optimistic Medicine. 

other conditions, and that the doctor is going to act 
on that supposition until he has reason for a different 
view of the case. In this way the dread possibility is 
a sort of suspended sentence which good behavior on 
the part of the patient will in due course of time 
render null and void. 

Many physicians of material minds seem to dis- 
count the psychological element in treatment of pa- 
tients presenting suspicious symptoms of tuberculosis. 
Their attitude seems to be that the germ of that dis- 
ease does not in any way find his offensive slackened 
by the mental attitude of the patient. But in view of 
the depression which may result from fear and morbid 
introspection in states of comparative health and the 
consequent effects of same upon the digestion and 
nerve poise, it would seem likely that a patient's 
chances for building up a defensive status in case of 
infection must of necessity be greatly increased if he is 
in a fairly optimistic frame of mind. 

A certain degree of camouflage is allowed the 
physician in most clinical work, but there are physi- 
cians who would prohibit it entirely in the treatment 
of those whom they suspect of pulmonary weakness. 
On the other hand, there are physicians who at least 
trespass upon the borderlands of quackery in their en- 
deavors to undo the effects of too much candor on the 
part of some other doctor. As in many other prob- 
lems, the middle course is the best, viz., to regard the 
patient as a suspect where apparently necessary, and 
at the same time postpone as long as possible any 
decisions which will lessen the patient's optimism. 



The Tubercular Suspect. 117 

Many a heartsick patient, unwilling to believe the 
unqualified verdict, has resorted to the irregular prac- 
titioner, with a pathetic hope that by some magic the 
evil spell might be lifted. In an instance of this kind a 
young woman with small children, panic stricken at the 
prospect of soon following to a consumptive's grave 
her husband who had died but a few months before, 
abandoned all hope of relief from her physician and 
took a long journey to consult an advertising quack 
who prescribed a concoction for her which contained, 
among other ingredients, the ashes remaining from 
burnt crepe. Another victim of the disease in the 
same rural community consulted a spiritualistic 
medium who claimed to be influenced by a wonderful 
medicine man. He soon abandoned hope in this in- 
strumentality, however, as the remedies recommended 
were so markedly drastic as to show that they were 
a menace rather than any possible help. People are 
wiser in these days, but human nature is much the 
same at all times. Of all the remedies at the disposal 
of the practitioner, nothing equals in efficacy a well- 
sustained hope of recovery. 

When, in the light of our modern knowledge of 
bacteriology, the germ of tuberculosis is definitely 
located, it is, of course, unwise to conceal the fact 
from the adult patient. The great problem thereafter 
is to establish a routine calculated to maintain, as far 
as possible, such sense of well-being as may yet re- 
main in the patient. Any feeling of comparative per- 
sonal comfort is an enormous help in maintaining 
courage and determination to overcome the disease. 



118 Optimistic Medicine. 

It is said that in some northern climes many elderly 
people of good health retain such a persistent dread 
of the coming winter that they cannot even enjoy the 
present summer. When such a state of mind can 
exist with people in normal health possessed of means 
to supply themselves with the conventional comforts 
of life during the cold months, what must the attitude 
be of the morbid type of tubercular patient who has 
existed through a long, cold winter in an open shack? 
Numerous cases are recorded where patients have en- 
dured one such winter in the mountains with a toler- 
able degree of courage, but have failed to materialize 
the expected improvement when the summer weather 
arrived, largely because of a horror and dread of the 
prospect of going through another open air winter in 
the great fight against the disease. Many patients 
arriving at this mental state have clearly stated their 
preference to die indoors in comfort rather than un- 
dergo the hardships of the freezing process of cure 
another winter. Where the patient exhibits this 
pathetic mental attitude, some less radical method 
should surely be adopted. 

Therefore it would seem to be a safe conclusion 
that, so far as possible in the treatment of all chronic 
diseases, it should be a first consideration to maintain 
the sense of well-being of the patient and an optimistic 
state of mind. The expected gains which may be made 
by resorting to extreme measures which are tempera- 
mentally abhorrent to the patient seldom materialize. 

Some of the worst sins of the past which have 
been committed in the treatment of tuberculosis re- 



The Tubercular Suspect. 119 

late to nutrition. Acting on the principle that good 
food and abundance of it was needed, there has been 
in evidence an apparent belief by some practitioners 
that more good food would be still better for the pa- 
tient. There are some people so constituted gas- 
tronomically that they can eat more or less contin- 
uously and not show any immediate bad results. It is 
questionable, however, whether some patients are not 
often injured more than benefited by forced feeding. 
To be sure, febrile cases of tuberculosis present in 
their clinical aspects a race between the progress of 
the disease and the nutritive process. But, in for- 
mulating the ration system in such cases the reason- 
able comfort and sense of well-being of the patient 
should be regarded as the index. 

When the question arises as to which is best for 
the patient, home treatment or institutional, the finan- 
cial circumstances of the family should not be alto- 
gether the determining factor. One type of patient 
will welcome an opportunity to get away from home 
and take chances among strangers in a strange land 
who are in the same predicament. Some people are 
disposed to be of an adventurous temperament under 
such conditions and glad to make their escape from 
ill-concealed apprehension on the part of friends. In 
other instances the patient who, in a fair state of 
health, is diffident and indisposed to mingle with 
strangers, finds it all the more a tax upon the courage 
to leave home behind. The psychological effects on 
such a patient are so radical that they should not be 
overlooked. 



120 Optimistic Medicine. 

The drawback to all regenerative programs in the 
home is the difficulty in having the doctor's recom- 
mendations carried out. This is due to an ignorance 
existing among the general public which is far more 
excusable than on the surface it might seem to be. 
When physicians are laying out a radical course of 
treatment, what could be more natural than that the 
anxious family should be disposed to question a policy 
of regeneration in conflict with the patient's well- 
known idiosyncrasies and with the collective opinion 
of the household? For this reason, it is very impor- 
tant in all reconstructive cases that the physician ex- 
plain, with the utmost clearness, the reasons for his 
recommendations, and to make them, if possible, 
square with the judgment of the family. Such being 
the case, it ought not to be difficult to secure the in- 
telligent co-operation of the household, thus supply- 
ing the patient with all hygienic advantages without 
the depressing mental drawbacks above mentioned. 

Many a case of tuberculosis can be fought to a 
standstill in the home by means of an intelligent cam- 
paign in which physician, patient and family in gen- 
eral all co-operate. The educational benefit of such 
an achievement is likely to be great throughout the 
entire circle of friends. When a patient is branded 
as tubercular and whisked away to some retreat, the 
psychological effect on the community is very different. 
It is apt to develop a feeling of apprehension on the 
part of those of the community who may be suffering 
from a protracted cold or other form of physical de- 
pression. On the other hand, the successful battle in 



The Tubercular Suspect. 121 

the home by means which are widely known is not 
only calculated to inspire a feeling of confidence, but 
at the same time causes every household familiar with 
the facts to instinctively and often automatically es- 
tablish a lookout for any unfavorable symptoms which 
may manifest themselves in the family circle. The 
delicate young girl who allows herself to become so 
absorbed in her studies that it affects her appetite is 
far more likely to receive proper attention by her 
busy mother if the details of a hard and successful 
tussle with tuberculosis have become generally dis- 
tributed throughout the community. Parents familiar 
with such instances appreciate more than ever before 
the importance of a stitch in time. 

While it is well known that there is a sound physio- 
logical basis for the intense craving which many chil- 
dren have for meats, it is not as well known as it 
should be that this craving if gratified is calculated to 
have a life-saving influence in the prevention of tuber- 
culosis. Such important items of information should 
be widely distributed by physicians, in order that 
parents may appreciate the importance of furnishing 
a dietary for their children which supplies these neces- 
sary prophylactics in the blood. Too often parents 
allow their children to fritter away their digestive 
power by eating foods which satisfy hunger and the 
special fancy of the individual palate, but which are 
at the same time depriving the organism of the anti- 
toxic elements which provide the main protection 
against tuberculosis. At this critical state in the 
physical development the family physician may not 



122 Optimistic Medicine. 

see a prospective tubercular patient from childhood 
until some suspicious illness in early adult years spurs 
the parents to secure his advice. Frequently it is 
found that a heavy penalty for the careless supervision 
of adolescence by the parents is likely to be exacted. 

In considering the advisability of treatment in the 
home, much depends, of course, upon the family at- 
mosphere. Unless there can be a habit of cheerfulness 
among those who come in contact with the patient, 
removal to a sanatorium is naturally indicated. Too 
tender a solicitude on the part of an anxious mother 
is sure to be depressing. On the contrary, a resolute 
determination to carry the patient through to recovery 
is a great moral support, imparting courage at the in- 
evitable periods of depression. Mental telepathy is a 
real and often powerful influence which should be in- 
voked to the limit. 

The trite saying that life is a battle applies in in- 
tensified form in an active case of tuberculosis. Every 
item, however trivial, counts. The case presents an 
array of assets and liabilities and an appalling expense 
account. Every complication in the process of diges- 
tion, every unnecessary cough, every wave of mental 
depression is so much physical capital wasted. 

On the one hand is an active process of degenera- 
tion ; on the other is the natural resistance of a physi- 
cal organism planned for development to maturity 
and a later gradual decline through the processes of 
senility. To so augment the natural forces that they 
may resist and gradually overcome the sinister enemy 
who has secured a lodgment is the problem. The 



The Tubercular Suspect. 123 

weapons of defense are rest, nutrition and the mental 
attitude. Hence the great importance of the avoid- 
ance of any errors in the campaign of defense and 
offense. Abundant nutrition that will not prostrate 
the digestive organs, together with normal elimina- 
tion, helps to restore the bodily impulse to fulfill its 
normal destiny. 

As to the individual case, this is a problem in it- 
self. Some patients seem to present little capacity for 
defense once the enemy has secured a lodgment. The 
laws of heredity often seem immutable, but more often 
grave faults in nutrition in childhood have prepared 
a perfect soil for the invading bacteria. Every grow- 
ing child deprived of its normal requirements of ani- 
mal food is being robbed of the first line of defense 
against tuberculosis. The household that resentfully 
cuts down its milk allowance because of a necessarily 
increased price may have that parental error in judg- 
ment to account for a weakened resistant power later. 
Milk supplies not only nutriment, but aids in the de- 
velopment of natural immunity as well. This is so 
well recognized that milk comes first in the alimenta- 
tion program of every tuberculosis subject. 

A well-known alienist declares that there is much 
similarity between the tubercular case and the mental 
patient. The previous history of the breakdown is 
generally very much the same. There is continuous 
subtraction of vital force through overwork or de- 
pressed nutrition, generally both. A break is sure to 
come, unless the disparity between physical income 
and expenditure can be reversed. In the one case the 



124 Optimistic Medicine. 

weak place proves to be the lung, and in the other 
instance it is the brain. Mental disorder due to over- 
strain and insufficient nutrition may often be relieved, 
as also holds good with pulmonary diseases. 

In this gradual process of decline it will be found 
that there has been much digestive friction occasioned 
by either eccentric arrangements of the dietary or 
such mental stress as to offset any advantages accru- 
ing from a well-selected menu. Whatever the cause, 
there has been an undue accumulation of toxins in the 
system, all calculated to depress the bodily functions. 
Just as in some cases of mental disorder, relieving the 
patient from an uncongenial environment and placing 
him upon the proper selected dietary will soon result 
in steady improvement, so does the same hold good 
in certain tubercular cases. By producing a state of 
mental calmness and hopefulness and so arranging 
the nutritive program as to not complicate the diges- 
tive machinery by injudicious food combinations, a 
marked improvement may soon be manifest. 

Many an attractive young woman has been said 
to have gone into decline because of some unfortunate 
romance, when the real reason was a reckless disre- 
gard as to the food combinations inflicted upon her 
stomach. Few maidens are so susceptible to the 
tender passions as to go into a decline because of the 
idiosyncrasies of some irresponsible male person, pro- 
vided that she possesses fairly good judgment in feed- 
ing herself. On the contrary, a multitude of young 
women whose romantic affairs have proceeded with- 
out a ripple to disturb their placidity have developed 



The Tubercular Suspect. 125 

tuberculosis, not necessarily because of any late hours 
or even insufficient clothing, but rather through a 
steady decline in their vitality and resistant qualities 
due to unhygienic and often fantastic habits of eating. 

While the febrile patient must be kept in a quies- 
cent state, everything must be done that is possible to 
preserve an optimistic attitude. Anything which will 
amuse and not overtax is therefore in order. Even 
"canned music" may exert a cheering influence on 
many people. Everything depends upon the digestion, 
which will not work in harmony with mental depres- 
sion. The legend has been handed down from antiq- 
uity that the consumptive is prone to unnatural op- 
timism ; but this was before the era of bacteriology. 

Reverting to the before-mentioned simile of addi- 
tion and subtraction, there must be a lessening of the 
resistant powers whenever the feeding program is 
pushed to an extent which upsets the equilibrium. 
Avoidance of friction in the digestive processes per- 
mits of an array of such vital forces as yet remain 
with the patient in their full integrity. Besides nutri- 
tion, much that is in the nature of protective elements 
may be supplied in the form of milk, eggs, and certain 
cereals whose elimination without drastic medication 
may be ensured by the employment of vegetables per- 
fectly cooked. In this way a smoothly working sys- 
tem of rebuilding an incidental defense may be estab- 
lished without rendering the entire defensive resources 
of the body inert every now and then by some 
cataclysm of the digestion due to overeating or the 
ingestion of unsuitable food. 



126 'Optimistic Medicine. 

The presence of a febrile tubercular patient in an 
underfed family is, of course, dangerous. The family 
which is lavishly fed may also be insufficiently fed. 
There is, however, little danger of communication of 
the disease if the patient does not come in intimate 
contact with others who are having their vital forces 
properly sustained by a well-balanced dietary. The 
person who, in average healtK, is accustomed to a 
wholesome menu which contains not only meats, fats 
and starches, but an admixture of vegetables, and 
secures sufficient rest each twenty-four hours to pre- 
serve the essential sense of well-being, is not likely to 
acquire tuberculosis. Indeed, there are many who 
believe that occasional contact with the germ of this 
disease is essential to the development of a proper 
degree of immunity. The extraordinary susceptibility 
to infection which has been manifested by the native 
tribes of America, who certainly had every protection 
in establishing resistance to disease that fresh air 
could give them, indicates that there must be a large 
number of people in the large centers of population 
who have become immunized through the constant 
presence of the infective agents. 

Fresh air and hygienic environment are most ex- 
cellent prophylactic agents so far as they go. But the 
real protection against the invading disease consists 
of proper nutrition. Many families preserve health 
and a remarkable freedom from germ diseases year 
after year who seem to have no appreciation of the 
value of the ventilation of pure air. The indoor at- 
mosphere in the homes of these people in cold weather 



The Tubercular Suspect. 127 

is often repugnant to the esthetic sense. Neverthe- 
less, if supplied with an abundance of well-cooked 
food in the right proportion of meat, starches and 
vegetables and the milk and cream which is always 
identified with good cooking, they exhibit a sturdiness 
of physique which seems to make them immune to all 
wasting diseases. 

There are many medical problems far too com- 
plicated for the average intelligent layman to under- 
stand, but the physician who, in his relations with the 
public, throws an air of mystery about the cause and 
treatment of tuberculosis is not playing fair with his 
community. As before stated, every tubercular case 
treated in the home should be an effective center of 
education for all the families of the neighborhood. 
There should be an understanding as to how the condi- 
tion probably developed and how it could have been 
possibly prevented and the methods which hold out the 
most promising results in the improvement or cure. 
An inherited predisposition to the disease due to some 
syphilitic taint in the family should not be covered up 
and the development of the disease attributed to Provi- 
dence. If the too much indulged daughter of a well- 
to-do household has undermined her health by social 
dissipations and frivolous dietary habits, such causes 
should be known and allowed to serve as a warning. 
Wholesome living and suitable food provide under 
any ordinary circumstances sufficient protection 
against the invading germ. Otherwise the human 
race would have long ago been wiped out. 



CHAPTER VIII. 
THE OVERWORKED BUSINESS MAN. 

IT is one of the curiosities of the practice of medi- 
cine that even in the most enlightened communities 
those most in need of the wise counsels of a competent 
doctor are about the most frequently deprived of that 
benefit. 

It is only necessary to recall those instances of 
broken-down hearts and kidneys which occur so com- 
monly among business men in the "fifties" to realize 
that no helpless infant is in greater need of solicitous 
guidance than the man of middle age wholly absorbed 
in business and possessed of the usual meager under- 
standing of physiology. He is almost sure to go 
wrong. 

There are, to be sure, some who have been able 
to gauge the effects of unhygienic practices and who 
become wary of the big appetite and the accompany- 
ing plethora, or who have heard dismal tales of other 
men of sedentary habits who have on some tragic day 
made a sprint to catch a street car, and have re- 
solved to go easy. But few business men go to a 
physician primarily for information that will enable 
them to keep in such a satisfactory state of health as 
to be practically immune to the need of professional 
treatment. 

Now the question may naturally arise as to why 
the man of business who cheerfully pays a regular fee 
(128) 



The Overworked Business Man. 129 

each year to an attorney for guidance in avoiding 
lawsuits should not have some competent physician 
explain to him the various kinks of physiology as con- 
stantly modified from year to year in the development 
of maturity. Such a relation should certainly prove 
as congenial to the doctor as it is to the wise lawyer 
who sees about him prosperous business men who 
have profited by his safe counsels. 

There are various reasons why the logical parallel 
between physician and attorney does not exist, of 
which two are predominant. 

There is no doubt that both the lay public and the 
medical profession have been greatly influenced for 
the worse by the prevailing impression that the Ameri- 
can business man was prone to work himself to death. 
This is one of those numerous half truths of which 
people of enlightenment are beginning to be wary. 
The American business man works hard, and in far 
too many instances dies young. Therefore he has 
worked himself into an early grave, and his associates 
should take warning and slow up. But, on the other 
hand, it has been commonly noted that the naturally 
active man who retires from business and idles his 
time away is even more likely to go to pieces. 

It is time that every useful citizen of almost any 
age should understand that reasonably hard work is 
essential to health. 

This widespread impression that the business man 
is a martyr to overwork is one of the reasons why the 
doctor is not earlier consulted, and another is a sus- 
picion, which many a normally healthy man has, that 

9 



130 Optimistic Medicine. 

if he goes to a physician there will be an immediate 
search instituted to find some evidence of disease, and 
that it will be goodbye to peace and comfort ever 
afterwards. 

There is a basis of truth in this impression. The 
physician is so seldom consulted unless in illness that 
he might quite naturally conclude there must be some- 
thing wrong. And as there are few people of middle 
age who have not found some vulnerable point in 
their physical machinery, any doctor eager to accom- 
plish the utmost for the benefit of his patient may 
arouse morbid introspection in a certain type that will 
outweigh any possible benefits. In such cases the 
parallel with the wise lawyer would certainly fail to 
work out. But fortunately there are a great number 
of medical men who have the tact to keep a weather 
eye on a busy business man greatly to his advantage 
and never to his disadvantage. 

There are certain physiological axioms, ignorance 
of which on the part of any useful business man who 
has a family doctor is more or less a reproach to that 
doctor. It is the .function of the modern lawyer, as 
before mentioned, to keep his client from making mis- 
takes. It should be equally expected of the physician, 
when he has the opportunity, to point out the conse- 
quences of overthinking and underexercising, the im- 
portance of getting thoroughly rested at frequent in- 
tervals, and the fallacy of attempting to restore to full 
vigor and tonicity overworked vital organs by com- 
bined loafing and overeating. Getting one's "money's 
worth" at a sumptuous hotel as a means of building up 



The Overworked Business Man. 131 

the health has little hygienic basis. Little wonder 
that irregular practitioners of various cults flourish 
if they are able by various arts to convince the man 
or woman with an appetite far in excess of their nor- 
mal requirements that it is essential that they cut 
down the intake of nitrogenous foods and give the 
overworked stomach, heart, and kidneys a chance to 
resume normal function again. 

A man of magnificent physique took great pride 
in the fact that he had practically never known what 
it was to be ill. Methodical, calm, systematic, his life 
went on without a ripple' until he was seventy years 
old. About this time he thought it wise to take life 
easier. In apparently good health his appetite for 
good food showed no abatement. He ate heartily, 
and, yielding to the drowsiness following hearty meals, 
took frequent naps. A year or two later the natural 
result followed. His arteries degenerated and he died 
a few hours after an apoplectic stroke. Placed on a 
suitable diet and the physiology of his situation care- 
fully explained to him by a competent physician, this 
man should have easily lived to be ninety. 

One of the common concessions the heavy eater 
makes to his digestion is the employment of a liberal 
addition to his menu of vegetables and salads. He 
has an evident idea that his stomach is as fond of 
green vegetables as a cow. If there is an active peri- 
stalsis of the bowels associated with this combination 
he feels that the problem of heavy eating without evil 
consequences is solved. But he loses sight of the 
toxic gases which may be thus promoted and of their 



132 Optimistic Medicine. 

mechanical effect on the heart, which becomes tired 
and sometimes balks altogether. Such things should 
be explained by the doctor. 

The cow, as before stated, has three stomachs and 
seldom experiences the pangs of indigestion. When 
carefully and moderately fed she may continue to 
remain vigorous and be useful until twelve or four- 
teen years old. But the cow who is under the high 
pressure conditions of intensive dairying begins to go 
stale by the time she is eight. The combination of 
heavy grains and ensillage proteins and salads is 
too much for even three stomachs. 

It is just as easy for a physician to develop a fad 
or hobby as for anyone else. Those who have achieved 
a considerable measure of success in building up the 
underfed are often led into a sort of subconscious 
belief that good food and plenty of it will cure almost 
anything. This, in fact, practically holds good any 
time previous to full maturity. After that a change in 
policy is indicated until the digestive and arterial sys- 
tems have passed through a rest period. Rest and 
starvation combined have produced startling results 
in cases of overstrain of function. 

A well-known American family comprised four 
sons, three of whom died in comparatively middle 
life. The survivor reached a great age, and when 
questioned as to his longevity in the face of a rather 
unfavorable family history gave this explanation : "I, 
unlike my brothers, was blessed with a poor diges- 
tion." Of course, such a theory could hardly find 
support among scientists, but, in a measure, it holds 



The Overworked Business Man. 133 

good. The good digestion as it is usually classed is 
a comfortable one, whereas a sensitive stomach gives 
warning of any excess. 

Many people seem to think that good form re- 
quires liberal indulgence in the foods provided by an 
urgent hostess. A woman of great charm and sterling 
qualities was accustomed to assume, when guests in 
self-preservation saw fit to decline some rich dessert 
to which the hostess had devoted elaborate care, that 
it was the fault of the food. She would seem so dis- 
appointed and be so self-deprecatory in her inter- 
pretation of their object in declining that, rather than 
cause any disappointment, the dessert would be ac- 
cepted and eaten, with much subsequent inconven- 
ience. Little wonder that guests appreciative of her 
splendid hospitality nevertheless often approached her 
immaculate and bountifully spread table with more 
or less trepidation. 

Stock raisers have long since learned the impor- 
tance of a balanced ration, which means sufficient, 
but not too much^ food, of a variety that would en- 
sure normal function. A pair of horses worked regu- 
larly six days out of seven can be kept in condition 
by a suitable system of feeding, which is extended 
over the seventh day in which the team is idle. The 
intelligent driver of a pair of workhorses may indulge 
himself too lavishly on his day of rest and awaken to 
a blue Monday in consequence, but he is altogether 
too wise to overfeed his horses on their rest days as 
he does himself. It is probable that the old blue law 
system of "cold victuals" on Sundays was a,s much iji 



134 Optimistic Medicine. 

the line of correct hygiene as the precepts laid down 
by Moses. It is not likely that the ancient inhabi- 
tants of Connecticut overate on Sundays. 

Owing to the lack of correct knowledge on the 
subject, it is probable that a great majority of the 
adult inhabitants of this country either eat too much 
or eat too little. People of middle age coming under 
these classifications therefore stand in danger of two 
classes of ailments. Those who are underfed, al- 
though probably in most instances beyond the prob- 
ability of acquiring tuberculosis, are yet subject to a 
variety of disabilities if they proceed in their low diet 
program. Underfeeding leads to nervous disorders, 
general anemia, and, if carried to excess, mental in- 
stability in a great many instances. On the other 
hand, overeating is prone to make manifest various 
disorders of the heart, stomach, and kidneys, which 
figure largely as causes of premature death. 

These facts would seem to justify almost any 
physician in utilizing every suitable opportunity for 
the education of his adult clientele as to what con- 
stitutes the right system of feeding and exercise to 
conform with the person's occupation. To be sure, 
the physician might naturally hesitate to offer un- 
solicited advice to comparative strangers, having in 
mind the oft-repeated anecdote of the humane doctor 
who, not knowing his occupation, advised the subur- 
ban postman to take up a system of walking. 

The stout man who has a bad heart in most in- 
stances did not acquire that condition suddenly. It 
may have been coming on him gradually for years, 



The Overworked Business Man. 135 

due to personal demands upon that long-suffering 
organ that were a little in excess of normal capacity. 
It is not at all likely that the patient thus affected 
would have allowed himself to acquire such a very 
undesirable condition had he possessed a proper un- 
derstanding of what was leading up to it. He would 
have been wiser, and made sure that the overstrained 
heart was given an opportunity to get back to normal 
function again. Being, however, totally ignorant of 
what he was doing to himself, and receiving no en- 
lightenment from any source, he has gone blindly on 
until it is too late to rectify the ailment. In highly 
civilized states, such as we profess to have here in 
America, useful citizens with a fondness for a good 
living and disinclination for exercise should, as it 
were, have the riot act read to them by physicians 
who, under our present system, may take notice, but 
are restrained by an inexorable code from offering 
the word of warning unless directly asked for it. 

Financially this system of silence, lest there be a 
breach of etiquette, is often not only very expensive 
to the patient, but to the doctor as well. Numerous 
middle-aged men and women who have abundant 
means to pay for medical attention are very prone 
to leave their family doctor and go to some health 
resort whereby they are advised, admonished, and 
sometimes, if not too late, relieved, not only of their 
bad symptoms, but of a liberal amount of cash. It 
would be considerably more in the interest of the busy 
banker or manufacturer if he could be educated and 
admonished by his own doctor before so much harm 



136 Optimistic Medicine. 

had been accomplished. Being informed, he would 
be quick to detect any suspicious derangement of 
function, and would hasten to the doctor to be put in 
condition again and kept in condition if it were pos- 
sible. 

Large numbers of hustling Americans remain 
healthy until they become too prosperous. One per 
cent, of the time and energy absorbed in piling up 
additional assets, if devoted to the acquirement of a 
correct understanding of nutrition, would enable large 
numbers of bright business men to continue the 
money-making program for quite a number of years 
longer than they do as it is. Therefore, considered 
from that first principle standpoint, "does it pay," it 
is plain that it would pay, and pay largely. 

The horse owned by a poor farmer who is unable 
to provide a liberal grain feed, but has to furnish a 
larger ration of hay instead, may not present so sleek 
and elegant an appearance as the glossy, overfed ani- 
mal that lives in a more prosperous environment, but 
he is likely to live considerably longer. The dog for- 
tunate enough to live in the open country naturally 
takes a great deal of exercise. But even with this 
outlet for his energies he must not be allowed too 
much protein food. Otherwise his ordinary span of 
ten or twelve years of life will be cut down to six or 
eight. 

It should not be understood from the foregoing, 
however, that a reasonable amount of avoirdupois is 
necessarily an unhealthful condition. The stout man 
or woman who cuts down materially on the use of 



The Overworked Business Man. 137 

meats after middle age, utilizing the starch foods and 
a liberal portion of vegetables instead, may not only 
retain rotundity to an advanced period in life, but en- 
joy excellent health as well. Milk and cream, which 
may be taken in so many different ways, will take the 
place of meats, and the irritating meat elements and 
their toxins, which are such a burden to the circula- 
tory organs and especially to the kidneys, can be 
largely omitted from the menu. 

A most depressing factor with many generally 
intelligent adults of middle age and over is the feeling 
of apprehension which is apt to accompany subnormal 
physical poise. The man or woman who understands 
physiology and the various idiosyncrasies that belong 
to his or her own physical machine can appraise these 
depressions at their real value and with a knowledge 
of the probable cause. But the busy man or woman 
who has either avoided the doctor almost entirely or 
followed his clinical suggestions blindly without un- 
derstanding much about their purpose, often attaches 
a superstitious significance to what to them are vague, 
indefinite manifestations of some mysterious and 
threatening physical calamity. This is not unnatural 
as they recall their friends and acquaintances who 
have suddenly fallen by the wayside when shortly 
before they seemed to be in perfect health. 

Dread of what we do not understand is the antith- 
esis of that confidence and optimism which is essen- 
tial to physical poise. The housekeeper usually re- 
tains a reasonable amount of cheerfulness, although 
carrying a heavy load of family care. In the language 



138 Optimistic Medicine. 

of the period she "knows what she is up against/* 
Her husband may be fairly overloaded with business 
problems that tax his ingenuity and judgment, but 
he understands the intricacies of his business and has 
confidence that he can work his way through the 
maze of complications which may be looming up be- 
fore him. In both instances cheerfulness accompanies 
the solution of these various problems. But some in- 
disposition or depressing physical symptom, which ap- 
pears from the unknown somewhere, may completely 
change this feeling of confidence to one of dread. It 
would be hard to estimate the full measure of impor- 
tance of this depressing mental condition and its 
cumulative effects in a period of five years. Even a 
moderate understanding of the physiological cause 
and effect would lift this form of depression from a 
great number of citizens. 

Just why so many intelligent people should be 
content to grope their way along through middle age 
with so little comprehension of what countributes to 
their physical well-being or the reverse is hard, in- 
deed, to say. 

However, in considering this puzzle we should not 
overlook the feeling of dread which so many useful 
men of middle age feel as to approaching a physician 
with the view of having an inventory taken of their 
physical assets. They seem to feel that a physician 
thus consulted will make a desperate attempt to 
justify some long-continued course of treatment 
through the discovery of some adverse condition, re- 
garding which, if it exists, the patient prefers to re- 



The Overworked Business Man. 139 

main in ignorance. And we must confess that there 
is some reason for this reluctance. 

A good many physicians feel that they have not 
justified themselves in asking a fee unless they have 
outlined some form of treatment. In this way they 
tend to discourage consultation as a means of educat- 
ing the patient. They are often disposed to look with 
disfavor upon the person who consults them with an 
educational motive. They seem to assume that if the 
layman knew a little something about his case he 
would immediately start a system of self-treatment, 
whereas few people of common sense will take such 
risks, unless for trifling ailments. 

The one item of exercise alone is of sufficient im- 
portance to men who lead an indoor life to justify the 
system of general supervision by the doctor. It is 
really a question sometimes which is the most harmful 
to the man who spends most of his business hours in 
an office chair, going without exercise entirely or tak- 
ing up a system of exercise wholly on his own judg- 
ment. Few extremely busy men can take the time, 
under present conditions, for systematic walking. 
They alternate from over-exercise to no exercise at 
all, and the benefits are questionable. The same may 
be said of golf, unless it can be carried out systemati- 
cally. Even walking is of doubtful utility for stout 
men as compared with some form of exercise that 
brings all the muscles into use. There is probably no 
exercise which is safer or more beneficial to the aver- 
age man of middle age, who is in fair health, than 
farming. The suburban resident of a city who would 



140 Optimistic Medicine. 

undertake the care of a fair-sized vegetable garden, 
and continue to look after it during the entire season, 
will have inspired the gratitude of a great number of 
muscles ordinarily allowed to suffer from neglect. 
Every one of these muscles will have made some new 
demand upon the nutritive elements contained in the 
intake of food, the appetite will have been accordingly 
benefited, and the mental satisfaction of having ac- 
tually produced something of value to the population 
will likewise help to produce that optimistic sense of 
well-being which makes life worth living. 

Every physician who is engaged in general prac- 
tice should be a specialist in prescribing the right 
kind of exercise, not only for those who are debili- 
tated, but as well for those in fair health who hope to 
remain so. There is an excuse for every man and 
woman, however unlikely it may be that they are 
in need of ordinary medicine, in coming into a thor- 
ough understanding with a physician who is capable 
of outlining such forms of exercise as will seem to 
best fit the individual case. And there are few such 
cases where some improvement in the habitual form 
of exercise could not be suggested. 

Apparently taking the cue from the German idea, 
certain elements of the medical profession pride them- 
selves upon a brutally frank diagnosis under any and 
all circumstances. By this we refer to a thoroughly 
depressing estimate of a patient's condition. In most 
instances, also, the same brutally frank diagnosis is 
not only undiplomatic but unscientific. There are 
often hidden sources of vital force remaining in the 



The Overworked Business Man. 141 

patient which if stimulated by hope and an optimistic 
environment may produce marked improvement. Of 
course, it is a wrong idea in the average family of a 
patient who has been given the benefit of no doubts in 
the doctor's mind to somehow get the impression that, 
having gone on record as to an unfavorable prognosis, 
the doctor will practically abandon his efforts to bring 
about an improvement. 

The influence of mind over matter is so over- 
whelming that it is manifested in infancy. The older 
the patient becomes, the more stimulating or depress- 
ing such influences may be. The scientifically fed in- 
fant in an institution will die, while the baby who is 
the pet of a poor family, whose home is afflicted with 
bad ventilation, and who has little to eat will pull 
through and grow up with a strong constitution. For 
this reason there is little doubt that a great number 
of lives of usefulness would be extended a consider- 
able number of years but for this dread ultrafrank- 
ness on the part of the physician. It is a bad system, 
which permits a middle-aged man or woman of or- 
dinary intelligence to visit the doctor's office in hope 
and leave with that same hope supplanted by appre- 
hension and discouragement. 

Suppose a person does have a high blood pressure 
or very badly acting valves, or the analysis shows 
sugar or albumin in considerable quantity. It is not 
necessary to pass over a gloomy outlook to such pa- 
tients. The best possible remedy they can have is 
cheerfulness and hope. Cases which are taken up 
from this angle often show surprising recuperative 



142 Optimistic Medicine. 

powers. The optimistic diagnosis gives some of them 
every possible chance, while the cold-blooded, strictly 
technical interpretation of such a case to the patient 
has only ethical justification in some cases, if it even 
has that. 

It would be well for society if there could be a 
better comprehension of the difference between re- 
laxation and laziness. There are plenty of lazy people 
who are so insufficiently acquainted with real ener- 
getic industry that they could hardly be said to ever 
know the need of relaxation. The lazy person disin- 
tegrates through unwillingness to give various mus- 
cles and faculties even healthful exercise. This type 
of person does not have near as good a chance for 
long life as the more energetic person, provided that 
the latter is wise enough to recognize the need of 
frequent relaxation. 

One of the most disconcerting factors in any study 
of longevity is found in comparisons between the 
strictly temperate and those who have a moderate 
acquaintance with alcohol and nicotine in their va- 
rious forms. Of course, the man who actually acquires 
the drinking habit is in a class by himself, and can- 
not be given consideration in these comparisons. But 
if we compare total abstainers of frugal and indus- 
trious habits with those who are given to a moderate 
extent to the so-called social habits of smoking and 
occasional, but not habitual, drinking, the probabilities 
are that, of the two classes of similar intelligence, 
those given to the moderate indulgences aforesaid 
have the best chance for advanced old age. 



The Overworked Business Man. 143 

The extremely energetic and strictly temperate 
man is prone, as he grows old, to be less and less 
given to recreation and relaxation. The other type 
is very liable, on the other hand, to acquire the habit 
of smoking after meals, with the relaxation which 
accompanies it. If with the physician's consent, he 
indulges moderately in light wines (home manufac- 
tured, of course) it is with the object of rendering a 
little assistance to the appetite and digestion. In the 
one case, there is a fixedness of purpose which wears 
upon the vital organs, while, in the other, the custom 
of indulgence provides a rest period for those same 
organs. In exceptional cases nicotine may be a heart 
irritant, or the alcoholic appetizer may lead to an 
overtax upon the digestion, but, in eliminating such 
possible disadvantages, the relaxing influence of these 
habits, kept within the bounds of moderation, un- 
doubtedly produce much needed rest for a circulatory 
system which under constant pressure develops into 
hardening of the arteries and all the incidental dis- 
couraging symptoms. 

A great number of people seem to confuse the 
significance of the two well-known terms, recreation 
and relaxation. The man who works hard all day and 
gives his evenings over to recreation may keep him- 
self in an optimistic frame of mind for a season and 
still be seriously overtaxing himself. Recreation is, 
of course, desirable, but the real complement of tense 
concentration over business problems is a period of 
relaxation which will restore equipoise. Many use- 
ful male citizens never seem to acquire the art of 



144 ' Optimistic Medicine. 

relaxation except when in bed and asleep. They de- 
vote themselves to strenuous business during the day, 
returning to their homes to find their wives with 
plans all made for a social evening, which far too 
often simply provides a further tax upon the nerve 
energies. Many women feel that if they are shut up 
at home during the day, it is only fair that their hus- 
bands should take them out for an evening of pleas- 
ure when they get home from business. The effects 
are often similar upon both husband and wife, pro- 
vided that the wife carries a considerable burden of 
housekeeping problems. But if the wife is so for- 
tunately situated that she can devote part of the day 
at least to rest and relaxation, she has her husband 
greatly at a disadvantage. This may easily account 
for the very considerable number of well-preserved 
widows of strenuous business men who have been 
unable to stand the pace. 

The man of affairs who is a hard worker by day 
should have an opportunity for rest and recuperation 
during the evening. In this way he can go to bed 
at the normal time with his nerves restored to equilib- 
rium and secure a good night's rest and feel fine 
and fit for another day's work in the morning. Of 
course, this does not mean that all evening recreation 
is a delusion ; but much depends upon the character of 
the recreation. 

One of the most useful accomplishments which 
business men can possess is the ability to go to sleep 
practically at will. This is an art which can be easily 
acquired by most people. The man who, going home 



The Overworked Business Man. 145 

from business a half hour before dinner is served, 
can drop down upon' a couch and take a twenty min- 
utes' nap has done a great deal to "knit up the ravelled 
sleeve of care." Furthermore, he has restored tone 
to his digestive organs in anticipation of the task 
before them. 

One of the most common customs among people 
of intelligence who are able to live with tolerable 
comfort is the fairly substantial breakfast, light lunch 
and a more elaborate dinner. The moderate noonday 
lunch presupposes that there has been a substantial 
breakfast. Otherwise the food intake has not been 
sufficient. A good many people do not rise from their 
slumbers with a very keen appetite. If they eat a 
very light breakfast that is consistent with the appe- 
tite, they must indulge in a very liberal lunch or suffer 
from loss of energy. If they eat an elaborate lunch 
it affects their appetite for the evening meal. There- 
fore it seems very desirable that a person should have 
a fairly good appetite for breakfast. And nothing 
is probably more calculated to produce that appetite 
than some form of cold bathing immediately after 
rising. 

A very large proportion of those who are habit- 
uated to a morning bath probably fail to realize the 
maximum benefits from this practice. Only a com- 
paratively few Americans can derive benefit from a 
cold plunge, as the shock is too great. The warm 
bath followed by a shower is also too elaborate for a 
great number of people. They haven't the time nor 

the patience for it, and they distrust the benefits of it. 

10 



146 Optimistic Medicine. 

Probably the one really sure and safe bath which can 
be indulged in by all is the quick hand rub, followed 
by vigorous toweling. The tonic effects are practi- 
cally unfailing, and there are few people of tolerable 
vitality who fail to show the desired reaction. After 
this form of bath, which can be taken quickly, most 
normal men are ready for the kind of a breakfast 
which will sustain them during the most active period 
of the day's duties. 

It is an extremely desirable thing for a business or 
professional man to be able to start the day right with 
a good appetite for breakfast and the sense of feeling 
fit. It gives him an optimistic outlook which is of 
great service in getting through the daily grind. 

After all, the greatest tonic is the optimistic 
spirit. Under its benign influence annoyances are 
airily waved aside and the besetting sins of anxiety 
and mental irritability are overcome. The ability to 
eliminate unpleasant reflections and to feel a sense of 
appreciation of the good qualities which nearly every- 
one possesses, rather than to dwell upon the bad quali- 
ties, undoubtedly produces its reaction upon the vis- 
ceral organs, as well as upon the cerebellum. 

One of the chief encumbrances of extreme old age 
is the associated isolation. Friends and acquaintances 
of earlier days have passed on. The result is a ten- 
dency to melancholy retrospect which cannot fail to 
exercise a depressing influence upon mind and body. 
There is no prescription which the physician can offer 
this type of patient that is quite equal in its beneficial 
effects to the encouragement of a sense of humor. 



The Overworked Business Man. 147 

People of most any age fight shy of gloom in what- 
ever form it may present itself. The octogenarian 
who is ready and apt in humorous conversation can 
always find companionship among younger people. 
He is made to feel that he is a welcome addition to 
the social circle, and the tonic effects of such assur- 
ance are beyond computation. Physical exercise is 
desirable, but mental exercise at this period of life 
is all-important. It keeps the faculties flexible and 
creates an atmosphere of respect wherever it is in 
evidence. 

As an example of mental flexibility at a very ad- 
vanced age may be mentioned an old man of eighty- 
five or ninety who shuffled through the lobby of a 
popular hotel one day in a country town, and, his 
sight being somewhat impaired by years, made the 
mistake to address a somewhat familiar remark to a 
smart young traveling salesman. The salesman look- 
ing over his shoulder saw this somewhat uncouth 
figure and made an ill-natured reply. "Excuse me," 
the old gentleman remarked. "I made a great mis- 
take. I thought it was So-and-So. He's a gentle- 
man." Bland smiles greeted the old gentleman on all 
sides, while the salesman at once perceived that he 
was in a very uncongenial atmosphere. 

Avarice is said to be the sin of old age, which may 
be true in many instances. However, as long as the 
instinct and capacity to make money continues, it is a 
life preserver, providing an interest in life without 
which disintegration is rapid. Even going through 
the motions of a useful occupation is far to be pre- 



148 Optimistic Medicine. 

ferred to the vapid existence indicated in the oft- 
repeated story of the old man who, complaining of 
a loss of appetite, was advised by his physician to 
take a little whisky occasionally, say, after he had 
shaved. 

Shortly afterwards a son, with whom the old 
gentleman lived, came to the doctor much perplexed. 
He said: "Do you know, Doctor, I am worried 
about father; I am afraid he is losing his mind." 

"What makes you think so?" asked the doctor. 
The son's reply was illuminating: "He is shaving 
himself all the time." 

It may be reasonably assumed that in the future 
hard cider or gooseberry wine must figure in this 
faithful old joke. 

It is undoubtedly a fact that most physicians over- 
estimate the judgment and intelligence of their pa- 
tients to care for themselves. It is a cardinal prin- 
ciple in business life that it is never safe to take 
anything for granted. Specifications must be clearly 
defined and instructions must be definite, or there 
will be a mix-up somewhere. These principles should 
be applied systematically by physicians in those 
cases where they have general supervision of elderly 
people. 

While it is not considered good practice to uproot 
fixed habits, unless they are of a positively menacing 
nature, nevertheless patients past middle age should 
be instructed as a matter of routine in all their daily 
habits. For it is a sad fact that only a small pro- 
portion of such people who are classed as intelligent 



The Overworked Business Man. 149 

are sufficiently informed in hygienic matters to avoid 
excess of some form or other. 

The physician who habitually makes it a point to 
give definite instructions in these matters, which 
should be thoroughly understood, but which unfor- 
tunately are not, acquires a reputation for thorough- 
ness and professional ability which he might not se- 
cure through brilliant surgery or a successful battle 
with a desperate self-limited disease. 

The instructed patient who is elderly and garru- 
lous and who believes that his doctor is practically 
infallible is well worth all the petty instructions which 
might seem superfluous. 

A large number of elderly people succumb before 
their time to excessive indulgence in meats and gas- 
forming vegetables and the mental depression which 
is apt to be associated with such indulgence. To this 
may be added over-exercise at rare intervals, followed 
by practical inactivity. If these facts were known to 
a great number of people who ought to know them 
but do not, the span of life of many useful citizens 
would be greatly extended. The physician who could 
briefly summarize on the back of his prescription 
blank hygienic hints adapted to the age of the pa- 
tient would have performed a valuable civic duty 
and often saved himself considerable necessary ex- 
planation. 

For, after all, the days of miracles or near miracles 
are not passed. Patients with everything apparently 
in their favor somehow seem to fairly ooze away their 
vitality from every pore and die without apparent 



150 Optimistic Medicine. 

reason. Others whose days seem numbered mani- 
fest astonishing recuperative powers and persist in 
living. Such protracted instances of almost inex- 
cusable longevity can usually be traced up to rational 
feeding, cheerfulness and a normal amount of either 
physical or mental exercise. 

It may involve a little time and trouble primarily 
for the doctor to establish such a system of hygienic 
instruction in his community, but the efforts required 
will undoubtedly be lessened as time goes on, as the 
good effects of such instructions will be apparent 
and passed along by the patients themselves. 



CHAPTER IX. 
THE EARLY GRANDMOTHER STAGE. 

IT is often said that, while to the masculine mind 
woman is a perpetual mystery, it is even more certain 
that woman does not understand herself. This would 
seem to account for many of the eccentricities which 
reveal themselves in normally well balanced women 
about the time that their first grandchildren begin to 
establish themselves as distinct entities in the family 
census. 

The predominant symptom in such cases is usually 
an apparent impression on the part of such women 
that the family welfare will go to the scrap heap un- 
less they personally supervise about everything that 
is necessary to be done to conserve the family com- 
fort. The person who can invent an antidote or a 
serum for this propensity to always being excessively 
busy will have conferred a great boon upon the 
human race. 

At about the beginning of the sixth decade of a 
woman's life her habits seem to have become fixed 
and only a superhuman effort will prevail in bringing 
about that readjustment of the point of view of which 
so many middle-aged women are in urgent need. An 
extremely active woman has by this time arrived at 
a state that nearly approaches perpetual motion, 
while the naturally indolent woman has become a 
case of hopeless inertia. Of the two states, the latter 

(151) 



152 Optimistic Medicine. 

is, of course, the more deplorable one from the stand- 
point of health. 

The woman of fifty who has brought up a family 
in the right way has had a busy life, which means 
that she should now begin to slow up her activities 
and conserve her nerve energies in order that she 
may retain such remaining youthfulness as she still 
possesses to the latest possible period. But just as 
the lazy woman grows more and more sluggish, so 
does the industrious woman increase her activities 
until some warning is sounded which is so menacing 
and definite as to ensure its being heeded. 

As in so many other tragic instances of prodigal 
expenditure of an already depleted vitality, igno- 
rance of physiology is mainly the basic cause of such 
physical wastefulness. And as in other instances, 
which have already been enumerated, failure on the 
part of the family physician to issue the required 
warning is to a considerable degree responsible for 
such examples of entire collapse. 

To be sure, there are fortunately physicians in in- 
creasing numbers who are making it a part of their 
regular routine to explain to these matrons, who in 
most instances constitute the very cornerstone of 
the domestic organization and family happiness, as 
to how they may best prolong their life period of use- 
fulness to the beloved families on whom they have 
lavished their affection and devotion for so many 
years. It is hard to conceive of a more suitable out- 
lay of the doctor's time and energy. Professional 
etiquette is a very concrete and important factor in 



The Early Grandmother Stage. 153 

the family doctor's career, but there are occasions on 
which it has to be strained a little, and certainly there 
could be no more suitable time and place than to issue 
a warning where such warning is obviously needed. 

The elderly woman whose children marry and 
settle down at some distance from the old home often 
misses these absent ones, and looks back with a cer- 
tain yearning regret for the days when these self- 
sufficient ones were looking constantly to her for 
pretty nearly everything that made up their existence. 
However, it is a question whether the woman thus 
situated is not considerably better able to keep her- 
self in good physical condition than the woman whose 
married children are constantly making demands upon 
her for counsel and sharing with her all their cares 
and anxieties. It is really astonishing how much self- 
ishness may be manifested by these grown-up children 
under the guise of affection. 

It is about this time in her history that the ma- 
ternal head of a family resolves that housemaids are 
more of a bother than they are a benefit. She de- 
velops routine propensities which are extremely 
wearing to her nerves. Her housework becomes 
something sacred, from which there must be no dev- 
iation or shadow of turning. To be sure, that oper- 
ation is done exactly according to the code; she un- 
dertakes to do it herself. She does the same thing 
and thinks the same thoughts week in and week out. 
Small wonder that a few overworked nerves, more or 
less conscious or subconscious of the fact that there 
are a lot of other would-be useful nerves loafing on 



154 Optimistic Medicine. 

their jobs entirely, rebel and recourse is made to the 
family physician. 

Then is the time when the doctor should institute 
a system of psycho-analysis. A casual inspection of 
symptoms is of little avail unless the curtain is lifted 
to reveal what lies back of those symptoms. It is a 
time for professional firmness and heroic resolution. 
The third degree should be invoked to the extent of 
finding out all about that beloved routine which may 
often well be treated with contumely and ridicule. 
Righteous indignation at the temerity of the doctor 
who has thus assailed her sacred routine will in itself 
be helpful, as it will exercise some of those more or 
less somnolent nerves which are loafing while others 
work overtime. As to the benefits resulting from 
such a course, they can perhaps be best estimated by 
the French-Canadian phrase, "probably will and 
probably won't." However, perseverance usually 
brings its reward. 

It is quite probable that many of these abnor- 
mally busy matrons whose few worked to death 
nerves have rebelled might, after a period of reflec- 
tion, be inclined to see some logic in a doctor's theory 
that having a housemaid to direct would be bene- 
ficial because of the incidental ability of the house- 
wife employer to forget her other troubles. 

The bane of the average elderly housekeeper is a 
multiplicity of petty details performed with a feeling 
of urgency. It is often not the real muscular labor 
that produces disarranged nerves. On the contrary, 
the woman of normal health who actually uses her 



The Early Grandmother Stage. 155 

muscles instead of her nerves may be benefited. A 
woman of a rural neighborhood for a considerable 
number of years did laundry work for her neighbors, 
being well equipped with machinery for the purpose 
and doing excellent work and getting good prices. 
Finally, as it was not really financially necessary that 
she continue this work, she gave it up and went to 
a neighboring town and lived a life of comparative 
ease. In a year or two she came back to her country 
home apparently a total wreck. After a few months, 
having somewhat recuperated, she again took up her 
profession as a washwoman and rapidly regained 
her health. 

Many women who are most excellent house- 
keepers and who travel many miles a week in the 
kitchen, become alarmed about themselves if they 
undertake to walk outdoors, especially on uneven 
ground. They find themselves so much fatigued that 
they feel that they are much worse off than they 
supposed themselves to be. Introspection may often 
get in some of its worst results where this walking 
experiment is tried out at rare intervals. The facts 
are that by outdoor walking they have exercised mus- 
cles which ordinarily get little use and which natu- 
rally soon become greatly fatigued. If this is ex- 
plained to an intelligent woman by the family physi- 
cian, it may make a considerable difference with her 
physical program. 

No one can keep in proper physical condition un- 
less practically all his or her muscles receive a reason- 
able degree of exercise. It is for this reason that the 



156 Optimistic Medicine. 

calisthenics which matronly women are prone to 
greatly dislike are nevertheless extremely beneficial. 
Such exercise taken just before retiring will, in a 
very short space of time, materially improve the 
physical morale. 

The mental effects of an inadequate system of 
exercise become more and more marked in women 
past the age of fifty. The ever-present feeling of 
fatigue produces a habit of self-pity than which there 
can hardly be anything mentioned which is more 
demoralizing, especially if the sense of humor is 
defective. A woman under such conditions becomes 
obsessed with the idea that she is a martyr, and, as 
this viewpoint is developed, she exhibits greater and 
greater persistence in carrying out her beloved 
routine. 

It is absolutely essential in such cases that there 
be a change of scene or at least a change in the 
routine. Sometimes this can be brought about and 
sometimes it seems to be impossible. It would not 
surprise many people of experience to be told that 
the influence of a solicitous husband in such cases 
usually amounts exactly to zero. In fact, it may 
prove that the opposite type of husband may have 
more influence. Many middle-aged men living in 
such an atmosphere of domesticity reach a state of 
more or less continual disgust, and their caustic re- 
marks, on the principle of the counter-irritant, may 
actually accomplish some good. As a rule, however, 
the husband in such cases gradually gives up the 
struggle and concentrates himself upon his own per- 



The Early Grandmother Stage. 157 

sonal business problems, and a situation develops in 
which there is little mutual sympathy. There is little 
to suggest romance in the life of a woman weighed 
down by household cares and immune to all sugges- 
tions as to relief in association with the husband who 
has incidentally become a grouch. 

It should not be inferred from anything which 
has been aforesaid that the case of the morbidly busy 
or the mentally depressed woman of middle age is 
not often a serious one. Perhaps there is no place 
where the demands upon professional tact and di- 
plomacy are much greater. Mental morbidity per- 
sisted in eventually becomes mental disease and the 
few muscles and nerves which are overworked may 
by reflex influences change that which is a functional 
disorder to an organic one. There is often no time 
to be lost in changing the viewpoint, and the keynote 
of the whole line of treatment is in some way or other 
to provide recreation. 

In the average community there are very few 
people who understand the way these cases develop 
from bad to worse until there is a breakdown of 
mind or body. The doctor knows, and his sins of 
omission in connection with such cases are often se- 
rious. Societies of women organized for various 
charitable purposes often accomplish more for them- 
selves than for the poor unfortunates they are striv- 
ing to help. The woman who has stayed by herself 
for months and years and scarcely sees one of her 
neighbors, and has acquired the reputation of a re- 
cluse, may appear in an entirely different light to her 



158 Optimistic Medicine. 

neighbors when they really find out what kind of a 
woman she is. 

The proposition correctly stated is about as fol- 
lows : The woman has reached the age of maximum 
development and is a little on the decline. If the 
exercise of her brain, heart, digestive organization, 
muscles and nerves is fairly symmetrical, and, on the 
other hand, she is not indolent and sluggish, the ma- 
chinery, like the well-cared-for watch, will run along 
year after year, perhaps losing in efficiency a little, 
but in the main doing very well, until in advanced 
years some essential part weakens and a natural 
period of final and gradual decay follows. This is the 
way the proposition should be stated. Unfortunately 
in a great number of cases, it is found that, unlike 
the one-horse shay, some part has been allowed to 
become far weaker than the rest, usually through 
bad hygiene, and this weak part drags down all the 
others. 

If the average doctor would "hire a hall" and 
put these facts before the clientele, the vital statistics 
would certainly be interesting reading in a few years. 
Unfortunately the average doctor is altogether too 
busy for any such humanitarian program, and besides 
that, he is not at all certain that it would not be con- 
sidered as advertising himself rather than helping 
the community, and therefore things go along about 
the same year after year, about so many perfectly 
good machines breaking down somewhere along by 
the roadside, and the procession, gradually getting 
smaller, moves on. 



The Early Grandmother Stage. 159 

It is one thing to prescribe and quite another to 
have the prescription followed, and one of the most 
difficult tasks of this kind lies in inducing restless, 
overtired women to relax. Thought of the various 
duties unperformed so intrudes itself upon them under 
such conditions that they gain little or no respite. 
To learn how to close the door of one compartment 
of the brain and open another is an art which may 
add twenty to thirty per cent, to a person's span of 
life. All these facts are unknown, or at least unap- 
preciated, by a great majority of useful women. To 
be able to shift the mind from some annoying detail 
of housekeeping to some episode which presents un- 
usual humorous aspects is to suddenly take the tension 
off a lot of tired nerves and give pleasurable exercise 
to an entirely different set. 

While diet exercises a profound psychological in- 
fluence upon the entire human race, these influences 
become accentuated in elderly women. The woman 
whose digestive processes and especially elimination 
suggests liberal use of fruits is quite prone to have 
little desire for them. A woman will often eat an 
apple as a medicine, but seems seldom to acquire any 
special liking for this fruit, so exceedingly useful, 
especially when cooked. The observer, who fre- 
quently eats in a restaurant, will seldom see a woman 
eating a fruit dessert. Instead, she will prefer ice 
cream, which is usually exactly the wrong thing for 
her to add to an already sufficient dinner. Women 
inclined to be robust and healthy are generally fond 
of cooked vegetables, which are useful, but a large 



160 Optimistic Medicine. 

number of those for whom vegetables are especially 
indicated do not relish them. There is no doubt that 
the substitution of pork and beans for tenderloin 
steaks would be a perfect panacea to many compara- 
tively inactive women of abundant means who are 
afflicted with eliminative trouble. 

While the case of the woman oppressed and de- 
pressed by perverted function often presents a pathetic 
picture, the situation is often more depressing when 
there is presumptive evidence that the condition is 
menacing. Conditions of anemia with suspected pul- 
monary weakness, heart trouble in plethoric types, 
high blood pressure and those who have been under 
a heavy strain, etc., etc., often place a heavy respon- 
sibility upon the physician. In such cases he has a 
seriously depressed physical state heavily burdened 
with mental depression. The situation calls for the 
indicated treatment plus large doses of optimism. 
Physicians who can inspire cheerfulness in such a 
patient, incidentally establishing an appropriate regi- 
men of rest and a proper diet, are often astonished 
by the result. The patient acquires new courage and 
the sinister symptoms speedily abate. In a woman 
of reasonable intelligence mental stimulus with in- 
spired hopefulness may often persist to a green 
old age. 

Probably no condition which presents itself to the 
physician is less suggestive of an optimistic prognosis 
in the woman of middle age than cancer. Neverthe- 
less, there is considerable evidence in support of the 
theory that even this dread and mysterious condi- 



The Early Grandmother Stage. 161 

tion may be arrested sometimes by a suitable system 
of diet. This is certainly indicated in inoperable 
cases, and affords a certain basis for the encourage- 
ment of the patient. The fact that races who subsist 
almost exclusively upon vegetable foods are seldom 
afflicted with cancer certainly justifies the physician 
in making a radical change in the system of feeding, 
as if by, in a measure, starving the patient, a similar 
process may be applied to the malignant growth, 
there is some basis for the belief that the degenerative 
process may be arrested. 

It is said that men and women whose financial 
future has been provided for through an adequate 
annuity are much given to long life. Conversely it 
is frequently little less than a tragedy when the 
breadwinner of a family dies suddenly, leaving an 
indigent widow. A woman who has led a comfortable 
existence up to the age of fifty or sixty and is then 
left, perhaps with dependents, often seems to lose all 
courage or zest for existence. Women who look on 
and witness the tragedy in another's life which might 
easily happen in their own are prone to acquire an 
uneasy mental state which is cumulative in its effects. 

And so we have the exactly opposite state of mind 
from that of the beneficiary of a comfortable annuity 
a state of worry over ways and means, which places 
an additional burden upon the general functional in- 
tegrity of mind and body. 

It is very unfortunate, indeed, that there could 
not be a clearer understanding in early life of these 
psychological burdens of after years. For most 



11 



162 Optimistic Medicine. 

married couples of fair intelligence have thoughtlessly 
allowed themselves to drift along during their most 
productive years, always planning to save a nice lot 
of money in the future, which somehow always brings 
with it additional burdens of expense. And so we 
see those who have cheerfully spent their earnings 
in earlier years suddenly wake up to a realization 
that they have passed the meridian of life without 
any adequate preparation for probable less produc- 
tive years ahead. Such a realization frequently be- 
comes a sort of Banquo's ghost, persisting either 
consciously or subconsciously in most of the waking 
hours. 

It is certain that such thoughts are not conducive 
to health. In fact, it may be doubted if any one 
factor in human life is more corroding and generally 
demoralizing than the habit of taking anxious thought 
for the morrow. 

The Freud theory that dreams are but reflections 
of cravings of the waking hours is still regarded with 
skepticism by many scientists, but there are few un- 
educated lay people who have failed to note the dis- 
astrous physical effects of the anxiety habit. 

Therefore the physician who comes in contact 
with women who seem to be in generally depressed 
physical states should start an immediate hunt for the 
worry germ. 

There are numerous family reasons to account for 
a matron's sudden change of pose from a habit of 
optimism to moods of morbid abstraction. To yield 
unreservedly to such moods is to invite depressed 



The Early Grandmother Stage. 163 

function and eventually failing health. Hence the 
need of cross examination, by the physician inevitably 
brought into the case sooner or later, as to the mental 
factor. 

Of course, it does not follow that, if a woman is 
worrying over her daughter's unaccountable par- 
tiality for some man whom she herself disapproves 
of, the doctor can reach forth a restraining hand 
and interfere with the processes of romance. But he 
can give the anxious parent some often probably 
badly needed data on natural selection. He can also 
explain that in general a young woman exercises 
much better judgment in selecting a matrimonial 
partner than an old one does. 

Many a young married woman would have fig- 
ured out her own conjugal problem with fair chances 
of success but for the more or less indignant pity 
lavished upon her by a mother with too high a blood 
pressure. Everyone is the architect of his own happi- 
ness. There is an instance of rural philosophy which 
well applies to this problem. Commenting on a run- 
away marriage, which had caused a sensation, some 
one spoke of it as a sad misfit. The philosopher took 
a different view. He said, "The girl's family is com- 
pletely disgusted, and the boy's folks are perfectly 
delighted: that evens that part. The girl's parents 
are well off, and the boy's parents haven't a cent; 
that balances that side of it. The girl is a hustling 
worker and the boy is naturally a loafer, which evens 
that up. I think that altogether, it's about the evenest 
match I ever heard of." 



164 Optimistic Medicine. 

The genesis of that irresistible ambition which 
has figured so often in the careers of self-made men 
can often be traced to the early history of great 
energy on the part of one parent which has been 
stimulated to the utmost by the natural indolence 
of the other. 

The family physician will naturally refrain from 
philosophical comments of too personal a nature 
when he finds his overwrought feminine patient in a 
state of anxiety because of the bad success of some 
ill-starred son or unhappily married daughter. But 
when he comes in contact with a younger mother 
who is plainly coddling her children he is more than 
justified in issuing a warning. A coddled mind is 
usually found in a coddled body, and great numbers 
of American mothers have passed their latter days in 
bitter disappointment because somehow a cold and 
unfeeling world has failed to accept their offspring 
at the high valuation they had been taught to believe 
they possessed. 

Such is the fatalistic tendency of some women 
that the diagnosis, by the attending physician, of a 
malady which, in the observation of the patient, has 
proved incurable in some instances is sufficient to 
destroy all hope of recovery. Such cases require a 
careful exposition by the doctor of the numerous 
exceptions, and why they were exceptions. To the 
lay mind, paralysis is about the end of the human 
career ; whereas a large number of paralytics moder- 
ately affected have, under the wise counsel of physi- 
cians, apparently shaken off the menace of recurrent 



The Early Grandmother Stage. 165 

attacks and have passed on, after years of comfort- 
able life, as the result of some entirely different 
form of debility. An instance may be related of a 
man of fifty-five or sixty who was thus afflicted. 
Had he been entirely free from business cares he 
would have no doubt had sufficient time for morbid 
introspection and have soon succumbed to depression 
and the apprehension of other attacks. Fortunately 
for him he was the owner of a large farm, the de- 
tails of which, together with numerous help prob- 
lems, so completely occupied his attention that with 
suitable medical supervision and a simple farm diet 
he was able to live twenty-five years in comfort. 

As in so many problems of the later years, the 
keynote of treatment for the paralytic, aside from 
re-education of the muscles, is suitable elimination. 
It is one of the paradoxes of hygiene that so many 
otherwise well informed people should be so pro- 
foundly ignorant upon this subject of paramount im- 
portance to every member of the human family. Too 
many women through ultra-fastidiousness seem to 
wish to give as little consideration as possible to this 
detail, whereas nothing should be regarded as re- 
pellent which is essential to health. Of all corrective 
factors, nothing compares with the habit of eating 
freely of the common vegetables well cooked, the use 
of raw salads being often contra-indicated in people 
of advanced years because of their gas-forming 
tendencies. 

Without intention of casting any reflections upon 
the gentler sex, candor compels the admission that 



166 Optimistic Medicine. 

many women long since past the stage of physical 
development are large eaters. With the excessive 
activity commonly observed in certain types of busy 
housekeepers, they seem to survive a food intake 
which would soon produce disaster in a man of 
sedentary habits. But it becomes necessary, in the 
event of a less active existence, to materially cut 
down on the diet, or bad results follow. The person 
of that often indefinite classification known as eld- 
erly should be warned by the family physician that 
nature does not usually regard the inactive with 
favor. Hence the necessity of vigorous exercise of 
body and mind for all who would give reasonably 
free rein to the appetite for food rich in proteins. 
Otherwise the kidneys become overtaxed, the arteries 
subjected to overstrain, and the heart weakened in 
its functions by the pressure of gases and the ex- 
cessive stimulation of the surplus food material in 
the blood. Without an understanding of these con- 
sequences, disaster is apt to follow. With such an 
understanding, the man or woman of reasonable 
common sense reduces the dietary, both in quantity 
and quality, to the non-productive basis. No really 
heavy meals and at least two rather light ones each 
day are in order. 

Far better than such enforced abstention is a con- 
tinuation of a reasonably liberal diet suitably balanced 
by a life of vigorous usefulness. Surely there is no 
lack of opportunity. 

An unmarried woman of moderate means em- 
ployed in a large department - store became much 



The Early Grandmother Stage. 167 

worn by the responsibilities of her position. Living 
year after year in a boarding house of the common 
type, she noted the extremely unbusinesslike policy 
of the proprietress. When the institution had gone 
to pieces financially, she was in a position to under- 
stand the reason. To the utter astonishment of her 
friends she gave up her position, took over the board- 
ing house and proceeded to conduct it on sound 
business principles with great success. Incidentally 
her health was fully restored. 

To get the maximum amount of wear out of the 
human machinery it is necessary that the muscles, 
nerves, and the mind be exercised adequately and 
symmetrically. The Bible points out the logical con- 
sequences of the person who feels that he has earned 
a continuous holiday. Disintegration starts im- 
mediately. 

One of the most common mistakes made by 
healthy women of mature years is found in inade- 
quate clothing. A woman of fifty or sixty cannot 
withstand the effects of chilling the body as in her 
younger days. It is essential that she keep warm 
and at the same time avoid coddling herself. Other- 
wise rheumatism or neuralgia gets at work and is 
quite prone to persist. It is natural that a person 
who feels a twinge of rheumatism on every active 
movement should become less active. This depresses 
the various functions of the body, which, in turn, in- 
creases the tendency to rheumatic or neuralgic at- 
tacks. In this way physical tone gradually becomes 
reduced, and the robust healthy woman may find 



168 Optimistic Medicine. 

herself in a few months in a far less vigorous state 
of health. 

Many people have the impression that if they 
don't actually take cold, there has been no harm re- 
sulting from chilling the body. This is a very falla- 
cious view to take. The domestic fowls are well 
supplied with a covering calculated to protect them 
from the cold of the winter months. But everyone 
knows how destructive it is to a hen's "morale" or 
whatever it may be that causes her to decide to lay 
eggs, when she is subjected to the depressing in- 
fluences of a cold henhouse. She goes on an egg 
strike immediately, even if well fed. Practically all 
the domestic animals retaliate upon the owners who 
do not keep them fairly comfortable in cold weather. 
A fine vigorous calf which has made a very gratify- 
ing growth during the warm season can be easily 
stunted if confined to a cold stable during the winter. 
They actually seem to shrivel rather than acquire 
increased avoirdupois. 

Many extraordinary ideas are advanced from 
time to time as to the requisite temperature of dwell- 
ing houses during the cold season. Much depends 
upon the circulation of the occupant. No prescribed 
temperature is sufficient for a person who is not 
comfortably warm. Where the thermometer of a 
room runs low, extra clothing should be worn. 

Those cheerful octogenarians whom we occasion- 
ally meet will on investigation usually be found to 
have kept themselves warm and comfortable during 
the successive winter seasons. A case in point traces 



The Early Grandmother Stage. 169 

back to a farmhouse in a New England state where 
winter temperatures often touched a very low point 
on the thermometer. An old couple lived year after 
year and to a great age, spending most of their 
winter days in a temperature which averaged not 
less than 75 degrees, retiring to warm beds every 
night. To be sure, there was ventilation, but the 
temperature itself was always a considerable number 
of degrees above that advised by the theorists above 
mentioned. Such indoor temperature may be suffi- 
cient for young and vigorous persons who are well 
clothed or for older people with a high blood pres- 
sure who are natural subjects for apoplexy. But 
for the average person in normal health, however, 
any indoor temperature which averages less than 
70 degrees is frequently insufficient. 

There is probably no recipe more valuable for the 
preservation of usefulness in middle-aged women 
than the recommendation that they associate as much 
as possible and enter largely into sympathy with 
young girls. To be able to be interesting to young 
people is exceedingly helpful in turning the clock 
back. The woman who assumes a sarcastic attitude 
towards the social activities of the young people of 
her neighborhood has made a great mistake. 

The woman who can make her home a rendezvous 
for young people must incidentally, of course, keep 
her mind active and alert and in harmony with 
modern events. This in itself is exceedingly helpful 
exercise. When in combination with this custom 
she is able to develop and cultivate a warm and 



170 Optimistic Medicine. 

friendly feeling towards these young people and a 
tolerance for their frequent inconsistent actions, she 
is pursuing one of the most hygienic of policies. She 
is making her life useful and helpful to others and 
interesting and agreeable to herself. The matron 
who shows deference to the opinions of her young 
girl friends in the selection of her wardrobe can 
usually depend upon making few sartorial mistakes. 
In comparison with this, how frequently may be 
noted the extraordinary and bizarre appearance of 
the woman who has become out of friendly touch 
with those who usually exhibit good taste in their 
dress, and who relies solely upon her own unguided 
and inadequate conception of what is a becoming 
garb for her. 

There is no depression which assails a woman of 
mature age which is more harmful than the feeling 
that she is a source of ridicule and amusement to 
those whom she knows but slightly and who show a 
chilling acknowledgment of her appearance in public 
but otherwise remain aloof. 

The Fountain of Youth in a woman past the 
meridian of life can be best found by keeping the 
mind in warm sympathy with the young. A woman 
nearing seventy whose husband had recently died 
was suddenly called upon to endure a second terrible 
affliction. Her only daughter, a charming young 
woman, died suddenly, leaving four little children. 
The grandmother who had reached the age of nor- 
mal retirement arose to the occasion. She went at 
once to the home of these children an4 became prac- 



The Early Grandmother Stage. 171 

tically a mother and grandmother combined. In- 
stead of being crushed by the weight of care and 
responsibility, she seemed to take on new youth. 
Long after the children had reached maturity and 
left home, the grandmother survived to be the wonder 
and admiration of the surrounding community. She 
lived to well up into the nineties. 

Life is indeed a mystery; but one fact stands out 
so clear and definite that all may see. Those who 
give lavishly in affection and helpfulness seem to 
continually become richer in health and vitality, while 
those who deprive others of their kindly good will 
and helpfulness cheat themselves the worst of all. 



CHAPTER X. 
ACUTE DISEASES AMONG THE ELDERLY. 

THOSE who have reached middle life in a fair 
condition of health are reasonably assured of a com- 
fortable old age if they can avoid numerous pitfalls 
which seem to be continually spread before them. 

Many a healthy man or woman with a good 
physical prospect for the future becomes a victim of 
one of these untoward accidents, and the ranks of 
the survivors must close up as the procession goes 
forward. 

There are two great natural enemies of mankind : 
hunger and cold. In our present civilized state, at 
least under normal conditions, hunger has, in the 
main, ceased to be a danger to life. Because of 
various extremely diversified modes of life, cold con- 
tinues to be a sinister barrier to longevity. 

Researches of many eminent physicians and biol- 
ogists have demonstrated that the person who re- 
mains unscathed in times of pestilence is enabled to 
resist these dangers through possession of a high 
degree of personal immunity to the germs of dis- 
ease. This desirable physical state is maintained by 
suitable food, exercise, rest, good air to breathe and 
the avoidance of that chill which reduces the physical 
efficiency of the body, thus neutralizing the other 
favorable factors. When, however, a bodily chilling 
is combined with fatigue, immunity to disease is 
materially lessened. 
(172) 



Acute Diseases Among the Elderly. 173 

Naturally one of the most to be dreaded diseases 
of middle age and older is pneumonia. That the 
frequency of pneumonia is closely identified with the 
prevailing temperature is shown by the fact that it 
is infrequent during the warm summer months 
and gradually increases with the opportunities for 
getting chilled, and subsides at the end of the cold 
season as these opportunities lessen. 

Excessive fatigue is supposed to produce a low- 
ered state of bodily defenses, which leaves the way 
open for a pneumonic invasion; but, while it is 
reasonable to think that people become just as tired 
in dog days as they do in midwinter, such physical 
exhaustion is not in summer identified with an epi- 
demic of pneumonia. Hence by the process of ex- 
clusion we must concede that cold in itself produces 
just that lowered standard of efficiency in the blood 
stream which leaves the lungs in a condition to offer 
a considerably lessened resistance to the germs of this 
disease. 

A large number of physicians can be depended 
upon to tell their patients, under appropriate cir- 
cumstances, that it is dangerous to become seriously 
chilled. Unfortunately they do not as a rule explain 
the physiological reasons for their words of caution. 
For this reason a great number of people, very sen- 
sible in the main, think nothing of "taking a chance" 
by riding or walking in the open air without sufficient 
clothing. If they become uncomfortably cool, they 
trust to luck that they may throw off the chill without 
taking cold. Fortunately for the human race, they 



174 Optimistic Medicine. 

usually escape ; but as people become older there is an 
increasing number of chances that some time the trap 
will snap shut with them in it. Then must follow 
the battle for life, which, even if successful, often 
leaves a depressed state of health for a considerable 
time at least. 

Therefore it cannot be too urgently advised that 
people should not take unnecessary chances. It does 
not follow from this assertion that any individuals 
of fair health should go to the other extreme and 
coddle themselves. As a rule, safety lies in the mid- 
dle of the road, between the two extremes. 

There are numerous other evil consequences 
which may result from an undue chilling of the body 
besides some inflammatory process of the lungs. The 
fact that Bright's disease, one of the most common 
obstacles to long life in an individual, is far more 
common in the cold climates affords presumptive evi- 
dence that chilling of the body may react upon the 
kidneys as well as upon the respiratory tract. To be 
sure, there are plenty of other causes for Bright's 
disease than chilling of the body. But these causes 
are not operative to any such degree in warm cli- 
mates as they are in cold. Therefore the path of 
safety for those who may at some time or other have 
shown traces of albumin in the urine is to very care- 
fully avoid getting chilled. 

There are several kinds of germs which may 
cause catarrhal colds which are often epidemic in 
cold weather. But, although there would seem to be 
no reason why these germs should not be as highly 



Acute Diseases Among the Elderly. 175 

favored by a summer temperature as by that of mid- 
winter, everyone knows that a catarrhal cold in mid- 
summer is relatively infrequent. Most people escape 
such infections during the summer months even if 
quite commonly subject to them in the cold weather. 
A few may have such sensitive mucous membranes 
of the nose and throat that these conditions may 
manifest themselves as a result of atmospheric irri- 
tation. But there are comparatively few people who 
can breathe properly who, after all, can really make 
themselves believe that it is unwholesome for them to 
breathe pure cold air. Therefore the same deduc- 
tion presents itself as in the other conditions men- 
tioned, viz., chilling of the body is followed by a 
lowered immunity. 

Of course, it is impossible to avoid becoming 
chilled at times, but if the physiological importance 
of a prompt reaction is understood, most any person 
of fair common sense will take the means to establish 
the reaction. One of the severest tests which is ex- 
perienced by people in their occupations is in the case 
of models who have to pose for an hour or two in 
light drapery or perhaps in yery little drapery at all 
in an unduly cool studio. The model who has had 
that experience finds that safety lies in re-establish- 
ing equilibrium by taking a long, rapid walk. In 
this way, generally speaking, no apparent harm re- 
sults, although no physician would probably recom- 
mend such a calling as especially healthful. 

Naturally we must not overlook the factor of 
contagion in the spread of catarrhal conditions of 



176 Optimistic Medicine. 

the respiratory tract. Only a comparatively small 
percentage of the population seem to understand that 
the development of these disorders in the different 
members of the family is anything more than due to 
a coincidence or some peculiar quality of the atmos- 
phere. It is a fact, however, that the person who 
develops a bad catarrhal cold, which perhaps affects 
the bronchial tract as well, should avoid contact, so 
far as possible, with others. If the contagiousness 
of these colds could be fully appreciated they would 
probably be much less frequent. The average family 
physician is by far too busy with his never-ending 
routine to enter into any arguments with people who 
are more or less skeptical or indifferent. Therefore 
he has to devote a great deal more time and pro- 
fessional attention to the consequences of these 
contagions than to their prevention. 

The majority of people regard a severe case of 
the common type of cold as merely an unpleasant 
episode. They do not attach sufficient importance to 
the physical depression which accompanies such con- 
ditions, but seem to expect that about once in so 
often they will have to go through with such an ex- 
perience, whereas, theoretically at least, it is per- 
fectly possible to practically banish such colds 
entirely. 

There are certain people without any special 
medical knowledge who have seemed to possess a 
certain canny good sense which enables them to put 
the cause and effect together and gradually evolve a 
method of escaping these conditions. An example 



Acute Diseases Among the Elderly. 177 

of this kind was observed in a man who had so per- 
fected his system of defense against the common cold 
nuisance that he announced with the utmost confi- 
dence that he never expected to have another cold 
as long as he lived. He had found by experience that 
colds resulted from such and such causes, and by 
eliminating these causes he had for a long period 
escaped having any colds whatever. Such a rare 
exception to the common lot of mankind was cer- 
tainly interesting and worthy of further observation ; 
but unfortunately the amateur scientist in question 
was such a remarkably sound sleeper that when a 
fire broke out in his dwelling it gained such headway 
before he awoke that he was unable to escape. 

There is one item of information which physi- 
cians should so impress upon their families that they 
would never forget. It should be explained to them 
that any catarrhal cold which involves the chest and 
which is accompanied by a rise of temperature 
should be the signal for the patient to go to bed and 
the doctor be called. Such a policy carried out by 
intelligent families would prevent manv serious ill- 
nesses and numerous fatalities. 

The person who has become, in the popular term, 
subject to bronchitis has developed a lowered state 
of resistance which should be corrected. A person 
in this state of health may have one bronchial cold 
after another, and eventually develop a condition 
which favors the incubation of the germ of tuber- 
culosis. When this stage of physical depression is 

reached, radical action is necessary. The person who 

12 



178 Optimistic Medicine. 

requires three or four weeks to recover from a bad 
bronchial condition when attending to his regular 
duties and finds he may only recover from one but to 
shortly develop another, should be put to bed, as with 
this policy not only may there be complete recovery 
in a week or two and the patient be regarded as 
cured, but the tendency to recurrence will be greatly 
lessened. One thing is certain, the most skeptical 
patient will become convinced of the value of this 
mode of treatment if he has once seen it carried out 
efficiently. 

Those who are unduly exposed to cold and do 
not develop some catarrhal manifestations should not 
flatter themselves that they have escaped the conse- 
quences. There are numerous other ways by which 
outraged nature may voice her disapproval. Rheu- 
matism is a common sequel to such disregard of 
hygiene, and there are at least fifty-seven varieties 
of this condition. A man of about forty years who 
had always been a most excellent physical type and 
enjoyed good health, became convinced that he would 
be benefited by escaping somewhat from the confine- 
ment of a large prosperous country store in some 
outdoor occupation. He therefore bought a dairy 
farm and frequently spent his afternoons in mid- 
summer by helping with the farm work. Being 
naturally energetic, he would become quite warm and 
perspire freely. Instead of waiting until he had be- 
come thoroughly cooled or supplying himself with 
extra clothing, he would leave the farm and hasten 
back to the store, riding in the cool breeze. He 



Acute Diseases Among the Elderly. 179 

developed rheumatism; but having always been well 
he thought it would soon pass off. Persisting in this 
custom he fastened this condition upon himself to 
such an extent that after years of most exquisite 
suffering he died practically from exhaustion. 

That the catarrhal cold is a life shortener in the 
instance of many people who seem to throw off such 
colds with comparative ease is unquestionable. 

The danger of taking cold from any undue chill- 
ing of the body is greatly augmented when a person 
is habitually clothed too warmly. Such a custom 
naturally lowers the resistance. People who pass the 
chill days of winter in a steam-heated atmosphere 
should wear relatively light underclothing, making 
up this lack of covering by extra wraps for outdoor 
wear. There should also be plenty of exercise in the 
open air. 

Probably no one factor accomplishes more for the 
development of bodily resistance to cold than the 
hand rub in cold water on arising. This should take 
place in a fairly comfortable atmosphere and extend 
to the knees, the feet and ankles being unexposed. 
The quick rub with cold water followed by rapid and 
vigorous toweling can be depended upon to produce 
an agreeable sense, of reaction in most any person in 
a fairly normal state of health. The increased appe- 
tite for breakfast and the incidental sense of well- 
being amply repay anyone for the time and trouble 
involved. This practice comes as near being a specific 
for the tendency to bronchitis as could be recom- 
mended. 



180 Optimistic Medicine. 

The tendency to acquire the infectious form of 
catarrhal cold suggests the use of the nasal spray 
with an atomizer whenever there has been exposure 
to such disorders. An oil spray is preferable for this 
purpose. Thus treated, the nasal mucous membrane 
becomes comparatively immune to outside infection. 

The crop of colds which are often prevalent at 
the Christmas season can be plausibly attributed to 
over-eating. Theoretically at least, physicians could 
accomplish much good for their patrons if they would 
explain the consequences of these dietetic excesses. 
There are limits, however, to the probable benefits 
of such warnings, and doctors soon acquire a canny 
reluctance to meddle with the propensity to over- 
indulgence on festive occasions. Even the best tem- 
pered dog will often resent any attention while eating 
his dinner. 

While it should be understood that a tolerable 
degree of warmth is essential to health, it is equally 
important that the useful, but not medically wise, 
citizen should be made to appreciate the physiological 
difference between bodily warmth derived from arti- 
ficial heat and that secured by normal muscular ex- 
ercise. We have heard the story of the gold mine 
prospector who, enduring untold hardships in his 
search year after year and always in the best of 
health, eventually succeeded beyond his wildest hopes. 
From that time forward, being free to live at ease, 
his life became just one specialist after another. 

The resistance to cold which comes from useful 
exercise is a thing apart from being swathed in warm 



Acute Diseases Among the Elderly. 181 

clothing or seated at ease near a warm radiator. It 
is the difference between the natural and the artificial. 
But for the elderly of indoor life caution must always 
be advised, lest there be over-exertion and undue 
strain upon an arterial system weakened by the in- 
sufficient and usually unsymmetrical modes of exer- 
cise to which those who lead an office life are com- 
monly driven because of the protests of outraged 
nature. Moderate exercise with some useful and in- 
teresting purpose in view, the gradual development 
of a warm glow and incidental perspiration, is nor- 
mal and helpful to all who are in a fairly healthful 
condition. 

Few lay people of middle age appreciate the mor- 
bid possibilities of the acute indigestions. Probably 
no more fertile field exists for the exercise of a 
philanthropic spirit of enlightenment by the family 
physician. People who have reached middle life with 
a record of a practically unfailing digestive capacity 
are prone to believe that whatever other physical 
weaknesses may have become manifest, they need 
not borrow any trouble as to their ability to digest 
such foods as their preference indicates, irrespective 
of quality or quantity. That this is a delusion which 
frequently brings fatal results is so well known to 
physicians that it should be much more widely known 
among their patrons. 

The most general indication that the time has 
arrived for a slowing down in the gastronomic de- 
partment is habitual stomach pressure or "heart- 
burn." Certain foods, especially the coarser vege- 



182 Optimistic Medicine. 

tables, are apt to be the principal offenders in this 
process, and people who have been usually of robust 
health are perhaps more reluctant to indulge spar- 
ingly in these foods than to practice abstinence with 
most any other part of the menu. Being usually in 
comparative ignorance as to the mechanical effects 
of this gas formation, they are inclined to ignore 
these symptoms or to perhaps attempt to correct them 
by the use of soda or some other form of antacid. 

It is obvious that eventually the more or less con- 
stant presence of an undue flatulence in the stomach 
must exert an undesirable degree of pressure upon 
the heart, with the incidental lessening of the func- 
tional power of the stomach itself and especially of its 
mucous coating. 

When this unhygienic condition is continued right 
along month after month there may come a time when 
trouble which is barely smoldering under ordinary 
conditions may burst into flame. The business man 
who has never found it necessary to parley with his 
digestion may, through a combination of circum- 
stances, find himself, while in a state of fatigue and 
unusual hunger, confronted by a more elaborate bill 
of fare than usual, and relying upon that good for- 
tune which has always accompanied previous epic- 
urean exploits, he proceeds to satisfy his hunger to 
the limit. Under such circumstances it is perfectly 
possible for the long abused stomach to give up the 
struggle entirely, with the result that the heart, 
which has been hampered and crowded through gas- 
tric extension for a long time, finds the additional 



Acute Diseases Among the Elderly. 183 

burden too great and. like a wornout clock, suddenly 
stops beating. 

Perhaps a more frequent result of this form of 
error is found in the gradual irritation of the stomach 
lining to a degree that produces gastric ulcer. In 
this event the morbid consequences do not materialize 
in so tragic a manner, but unless there is a radical 
change in the mode of eating and very skillful medical 
treatment, the result is the same, and the person who 
has been more fortunate than others in the possession 
of an excellent digestive capacity has been misled into 
a condition of false security, as undesirable in hygiene 
as it is in warfare. 

The above is merely one type of morbid process 
which may result from injudicious feeding. Perhaps 
the heart and stomach are found to be practically 
immune to such excesses. There remains the ab- 
dominal tract to be considered. Granted that the 
stomach contents emerge through the duodenal out- 
let without causing any undue disturbance, there is 
yet the process of intestinal digestion and absorption 
to be carried out. It is obvious that if the intestinal 
contents are strictly physiological in quality and 
quantity it may be reasonably expected that there are 
no unpleasant manifestations. But, as often happens, 
defects in that perfect form of digestion, which is so 
much desired by all, are frequently manifested in the 
abdominal region. The liver performs its tasks with 
a stolid fidelity which often results in its being se- 
riously imposed upon. If the burden placed upon this 
long suffering organ is habitually greater than it 



184 Optimistic Medicine. 

should be expected to bear, some time there may be 
another instance where smoldering resentment bursts 
into flames. Congestion of the liver, followed by 
jaundice, is not usually a fatal disease, but is one 
which impairs the digestive capacity for a considerable 
period of time, and in later vears there may never be 
complete recovery. 

A not infrequent result of digestive weakness 
which manifests itself in the abdominal tract after 
middle age is appendicitis. A professional man of 
splendid natural physique was specially fond of sweet 
desserts. Socially inclined, he was often provided 
with an evening collation in addition to his three 
elaborate regular meals. His fondness for ices and 
similar delicacies was a pleasant joke among his 
friends. He began to have uneasy sensations in the 
appendicular region, and, morbidly afraid of an op- 
eration, he devised a method by which he felt sure 
he could relieve himself from any dangerous circum- 
stances. Under such conditions, of course, an ex- 
plosion was inevitable. The operation had to be per- 
formed, but all too late. Thus another useful man 
in the prime of life passed off the stage of earthly 
endeavor. 

It is sad to think of the number of splendid 
physical types whose very vigor and natural resist- 
ance have been their undoing. This should not be 
possible, except in rare instances, and would not be 
if physicians would take it upon themselves to explain 
more definitely the causes of various ailments instead 
of practically confining themselves to remedial efforts. 



Acute Diseases Among the Elderly. 185 

While nephritis, or Bright's disease, usually pur- 
sues a more or less chronic course, there can be little 
doubt that in its incipiency the development of albu- 
min excretion is due to some sudden undue tax upon 
the kidneys. A combination of overwork, a tense 
nervous state and over-indulgence in albuminous 
foods may push the excretory powers of the kidneys 
beyond their normal capacity. Perhaps a temporary 
reduction of the diet, with rest and relaxation, may 
restore symmetrical function once more, but these 
over-indulgences in work and alimentation cause more 
frequent repetitions of the condition until finally there 
is a distinct abnormal state which, masked for a time 
by other symptoms or no apparent symptoms at all, 
eventually makes itself manifest in such imperative 
terms that the condition is discovered when it is too 
late to be rectified. 

There seems to be a propensity among many 
people of great natural energy to become more and 
more involved in business just at the time when they 
should begin to relax. In the main, people of average 
intelligence understand this as applied to others, but 
they are very prone to regard themselves as excep- 
tions to this general rule. If they could but under- 
stand the great importance of the reduced consump- 
tion of albuminous foods after middle age and the 
reasons therefor many unnecessary tragedies could 
be averted. Physicians recognize these facts, but, 
as before stated, it is a brave doctor who has the 
courage to attempt to stand between a hungry man 
who considers himself in good health and the appetiz- 



186 Optimistic Medicine. 

ing foods to which he has become habituated, and 
knows no reason to doubt his gastronomic ability. 

In this connection there comes to mind a serene 
old man rounding out a life of great usefulness and 
activity, who substituted for a liberal use of meats 
in his diet an even more liberal use of milk three 
times per day. A small pitcher, containing perhaps a 
couple of glasses of milk sufficiently warmed to take 
off the chill, was placed beside his plate at every meal. 
He had little or no meat, but otherwise he conformed 
to the family menu. He died in his ninety-second 
year, being in his last days well poised, cheerful and 
without the slightest apparent abatement in his nat- 
ural intellectual vigor. 

The fact that the treatment of a majority of the 
diseases of advanced life centers upon the diet is 
sufficient reason why those who have not yet de- 
veloped these undesirable physical conditions should 
be warned in time. There is no one who can issue 
this warning with the authority which will be recog- 
nized except the physician. 

There can be little doubt that the noon-day sand- 
wich has much to answer for in the vital statistics. 
The young clerk who hastily consumes a ham sand- 
wich topped off with pie and ice cream may in popular 
phrase "get away with it." But the elderly person 
had much better acquire the soup habit. It is prob- 
able that the abolition of the noon-day dinner has 
considerable to do with the increased mortality 
among the elderly. The average restaurant sand- 
wich requires much more conscientious mastication 



Acute Diseases Among the Elderly. 187 

than it generally gets. The result is that not even 
the real nutrient values of a rather limited number 
of calories are really absorbed. Under such condi- 
tions the sandwich addict arrives at the dinner table 
in the early evening with a ravenous appetite, eating 
a heavy dinner, the digestion of which may be some- 
what interfered with by a late evening lunch, if the 
person in question is socially inclined. 

In considering the results of such dietetic ex- 
ploits, it is well to bear in mind a few general 
principles. 

Let us suppose that the average man arrives at 
the age of fifty years with no perceptible impairment 
of digestion, respiration or heart action. He is ca- 
pable of passing an excellent examination for life in- 
surance. But it is some twenty-five or thirty years 
since he reached average physical maturity. His 
machinery has been running smoothly all this time, 
but there must inevitably be some lessening in the 
capability of the same machine to stand hard usage. 
Strain which would be passed over easily at twenty- 
five or thirty gives his machinery considerably more 
of a jolt now. Therefore, according to a reasonable 
social theory, this person of fair intelligence should 
be instructed by some competent physician just how 
to ease up the strain of ordinary living year after 
year and thus preserve equilibrium. 

As has been stated before, cold is perhaps the 
most common factor in bringing about many sudden 
and unnecessary physical disasters. When habitual 
extreme fatigue and reckless feeding are added, the 



188 Optimistic Medicine. 

outlook is still less encouraging for the green old age 
everyone seems to desire, although, as the humorist 
says, few are satisfied when they get it. 

It should not impress a person of observation and 
intelligence as an unreasonable theory that, if the 
domestic animals must be kept fairly warm to thrive, 
the genus homo might naturally require protection 
from chill as essential to perfect health. Likewise 
the unwisdom of overfatigue in advanced years 
should be perfectly apparent. A young horse may 
be given a hard day's drive and in a day or two ap- 
parently have entirely recovered, while an old horse 
in evident good spiritsi at the start of a similar drive 
may become so overfatigued as to show the effects 
for a considerable period. Now when we add to these 
factors the dangers of reckless eating, it is easy to 
understand why a few who have acquired a more 
thorough comprehension of these principles will, 
barring accidents, live well up into the eighties, while 
those of stronger physique who have disregarded 
all these basic principles of hygiene may die in the 
fifties. 

There is a popular idea that stout people are short 
lived ; but this is not necessarily true. It depends very 
much upon their personal habits. Many stout women 
live to a very advanced age, especially if engaged 
in household tasks. They thus secure appropriate and 
regular hygienic exercise. 

One of the most common obstacles to longevity of 
men of corpulent tendencies is the frequent reluctance 
of such people to take proper exercise, which, of 



Acute Diseases Among the Elderly. 189 

course, means regular exercise. The heart, which 
is not only encased with a considerable amount of 
adipose tissue, but which has the burden of carrying 
on adequate circulation of the blood throughout so 
large an area, must be treated with great considera- 
tion. This can be accomplished provided the person 
understands the situation sufficiently to exercise fair 
judgment. Unfortunately, many of these rotund 
people are left very much in the dark, and their hearts 
are subjected to alternate periods of inactivity and 
excessive bursts of energy which naturally occasion 
abnormal strain. Under this unsymmetrical system 
of hygiene this patient organ gradually loses strength 
and the capacity to meet the occasional excessive 
demands. 

Now, on the contrary, where there is a compre- 
hensive understanding of the mechanism of the heart 
and the handicaps imposed by unusual corpulence, the 
person of judgment develops a system of fairly uni- 
form exercise of a nature that does not impose 
serious heart strain, with the combined result of giv- 
ing increased tone to the circulation and avoidance of 
the development of a pendulous abdomen, which is 
perhaps as menacing to longevity prospects as any 
physical characteristics of this period. 

Posture has a great deal to do with the physical 
integrity of the corpulent man or woman. Those 
who do considerable walking or when at home or the 
office spend a considerable portion of the waking 
hours upon their feet, are giving the vital organs a 
much better chance to perform their functions. 



190 Optimistic Medicine. 

Physicians are very much handicapped in their 
recommendations of exercise. They must give ad- 
vice which will be graciously received. It would be 
extremely undiplomatic to tell the plain ungarnished 
truth to many well-to-do citizens of much avoirdu- 
pois and a fat bank account. Hence we hear the 
legends of numerous roly-poly women performing 
strange physical stunts in the seclusion of their apart- 
ments and see numerous masculine victims of too 
excellent a digestion wending their weary ways about 
the golf links. The physician brutal enough to say 
to those women that the best possible form of exer- 
cise they could take would be to assist at. housekeep- 
ing and who would advise the substantial citizens of 
the other gender to take up gardening and the use 
of the axe would not be appreciated, although his 
counsel might be the very best possible under the 
circumstances. 

The human body is developed by exercise, and 
tends to remain in a condition of health and integrity 
as long as exercise is maintained. Whoever substi- 
tutes some one of the multifarious systems of diet 
or hygiene for the muscular activity required by na- 
ture is taking a chance. He may get along in a fairly 
comfortable way for a considerable period, but sooner 
or later some one of the essential cogs in the human 
machinery loses its capacity, and then the whole 
machinery must be scrapped. Those who stop and 
think of their developing days and of the physical 
activities of that period and of the sense of well- 
being they enjoyed and who find themselves in so 



Acute Diseases Among the Elderly. 191 

different a physical state in advanced years should 
not attribute the change entirely to age. On the 
contrary, they should, so far as their circumstances 
permit, get back into the physical habits of their more 
active days, cautiously and gradually, of course. To 
those who get the vision and who are able to act 
intelligently, there is a grand awakening and a new 
physical life if they will but act with judgment. 

Exercise which does not include the abdominal 
tract is but a poor substitute for that which is normal. 

As before stated, as people grow older they be- 
come more and more wedded to their pet notions, 
especially in the matter of diet. Any system of diet 
which keeps the intestinal canal in an abnormal state 
is unhygienic. When such conditions develop, a per- 
son should go back to first principles, which means 
chiefly the easily digested cereals and milk. No 
person need starve on that form of diet. 

Digestion is mostly a matter of chemistry ; certain 
ferments formed by the secretions of the stomach 
and intestines combine with the food for the pur- 
pose of so transforming it that it may become assimi- 
lated and thus utilized for the production of heat and 
energy. If the chemical process of digestion is a 
normal one, there are no disturbances of function 
among the activities of the lungs, heart, liver, pan- 
creas, kidneys, etc. But if there is an injudicious 
selection of foods, the chemical reactions following 
their introduction into the stomach and their com- 
bination with the gastric juices may produce irritating 
influences which by absorption from stomach and 



192 Optimistic Medicine. 

intestines produce auto-intoxication and involve the 
vital organs in disordered function. As people be- 
come older they become more susceptible to these 
adverse influences. 

The doctor who makes these facts plain to his 
reasonably intelligent families has placed himself 
upon a lofty pedestal in their regard. His patients 
will see to it that his light is not hid under a bushel 



CHAPTER XL 
THE CELIBATE OF FIFTY OR SIXTY. 

THERE are many thankless tasks in this world 
which must nevertheless be cheerfully undertaken and 
if possible finished with as much remaining cheer- 
fulness as circumstances permit. To suggest offer- 
ing good advice to the celibate is to assume that 
such advice would be appreciated, whereas everyone 
knows that if good and generally oft-repeated advice 
had been followed by the celibate, he or she would 
have long since ceased to be a celibate. 

However, when the mischief is done and the 
willful and elusive maiden has become a sober old 
maid, and the frivolous beau has developed certain 
tendencies to physical infirmity and to solitude, much 
can be done to sustain and cheer these lonely ones 
who have somehow missed the best that life holds in 
store. 

Two basic principles stand out conspicuously 
among the laws of physiology. The human young 
cannot develop normally in a loveless environment, 
and the human adult shrivels and deteriorates prema- 
turely when deprived of something to love and pro- 
tect. No social sophistries regarding bachelor maids, 
no elaborately contrived club diversions, no self- 
delusive optimism as to the joys of a life free from 
family responsibilities can explain away or alter these 

is (193) 



194 Optimistic Medicine. 

primordial and racial facts. Therefore, it inevitably 
follows that the celibate, all else being equal, is physi- 
cally at a disadvantage. And as sooner or later the 
doctor enters upon the scene, the question must nat- 
urally arise as to what shall be the nature of the 
psychological panacea which every wise physician 
dispenses even more fully than the pills and tinctures 
which nominally make up his stock in trade. 

The man of family, if possessed of fair intelli- 
gence, is pretty sure to have acquired some workable 
knowledge of hygiene. Various health problems have 
arisen in the family which, with the doctor's admoni- 
tions and explanations and some study on the part 
of the family members themselves, will have widened 
the understanding of the dominance of the mental 
over the physical. But the bachelor has not usually 
encountered these questions, and may easily arrive at 
the age of fifty with a most profound ignorance of 
the science of self-preservation. 

One factor which often handicaps the unmarried 
of elderly age is the abject fear of anything uncon- 
ventional. The spinster school teacher or store clerk 
will so dread any change from accustomed routine 
as to persist in her round of duties until collapse is 
near. The same holds good, although perhaps in 
lessened degree, with the elderly bachelor. Such 
people seem to feel that to complain of feeling badly 
would excite contempt. Many untimely deaths result 
from such morbid secrecy. 

In a small town a bachelor of a little less than 
fifty, in generally fair health, acquired a severe bron- 



The Celibate of Fifty or Sixty. 195 

chial cold. Having apartments in his place of busi- 
ness, he habitually secured his meals at a nearby 
hotel. The weather was intensely cold, the hotel din- 
ing room was chilly, and the bronchitis became worse. 
Friends of the masculine gender urged that the pa- 
tient stay indoors and have the care and watchfulness 
which their various wives would gladly supply. The 
poor bachelor could not endure the thought of causing 
so much trouble. He persisted in going to the hotel, 
pneumonia shortly developed, and was almost im- 
mediately fatal. 

Some of these well-meaning people who desire to 
reform nearly everyone but themselves have, in the 
wide range of their activities, proposed a tax upon 
bachelors. As none of these patriots have suggested 
taxing old maids, it is to be assumed that, in their 
outlook, failure to wed is a masculine fault only. 
Their philosophy resembles that of the lamented 
Artemas Ward and his famous soliloquy, "Where, 
oh! where are the girls of my youth? Some are 
married; others would like to be/' In point of fact, 
most unmarried people of mature years have simply 
failed to arouse interest in the right direction until 
the chains of habit have anchored them. 

The physician, who, as a feature of his treatment, 
can let the sunlight of easy congenial intercourse with 
others filter through the reserve of celibacy has ac- 
complished a creditable piece of work. If the barriers 
are once broken down, the expectation of life may 
easily be extended a decade. Such changes do occur, 
and happy marriages may result. 



196 Optimistic Medicine. 

But the doctor does not usually aspire to the func- 
tion of matchmaker between elderly bachelors and 
spinsters. He ministers to their bodily ills, carefully 
avoiding allusion to any disadvantages which may 
result from their lonely estate. However, it is clearly 
within the bounds of propriety to advise the develop- 
ment of a human interest and the avoidance of in- 
trospective seclusion. 

One of the physical handicaps of celibacy is this 
same reluctance by others than physicians to offer 
useful suggestions on ordinary hygienic topics. The 
married man or woman is constantly being called to 
account by the family for any disregard of the laws 
of health. Usually it may be assumed that the collec- 
tive judgment of husband or wife plus that of the 
children is a more valuable guide to some venturesome 
unit of the household than that of the individual in 
question. The husband who calls his wife down for 
too much zeal at house-cleaning time will have his 
day of reckoning later when he transgresses some 
law of health. But the single man or woman of fifty 
or over is usually surrounded by an atmosphere of 
greater reserve, and associates hesitate to volunteer 
such words of caution. 

The physician's problem with such people is there- 
fore more difficult, and requires much tact in certain 
cases. Where the married woman will often be pro- 
fuse in her narrative of symptoms, the spinster and 
the bachelor as well may be undesirably reticent, 
chiefly in some instances because of a reluctance to 
"make a fuss." Too much cross-questioning may 



The Celibate of Fifty or Sixty. 197 

actually seem to arouse unmistakable resentment by 
these persons. 

Another psychological element to be considered 
in serious illnesses is the lessened incentive for living. 
The father or mother of a family under such condi- 
tions is eager to carry on the accustomed tasks 
largely for the benefit of those more or less depend- 
ent. The unmarried patient may even have a de- 
pressing fear of becoming dependent herself. 

So it naturally follows that the greatest element 
in the treatment of the lonely old bachelor or spinster 
is the development of a real object in life. And this, 
in the constructive sense, always means a life devoted 
to others. It is only necessary to contrast the maiden 
lady who is working for others with the self-centered 
type to see the physiological benefits. The jolly old 
maid who is "all bound up" in a bunch of lively ap- 
preciative nephews and nieces seems, after middle 
age, to approximate her married sisters in her gen- 
eral physical attributes. She throws off the burdens 
of advancing years just as easily and enters gladly 
into social life. The maiden lady of this type, there- 
fore, seldom becomes an unusual problem to the 
doctor. 

It might be said that the shy, retiring spinster is 
an infrequent source of professional perplexity, as 
she commonly avoids the doctor if possible. But 
when she does finally come under observation there is 
a question of psychology which often requires solu- 
tion first of all. The thing to be done, of course, is 
to secure the patient's entire confidence generally no 



198 Optimistic Medicine. 

easy task. With the employment of tact, however, it 
may be possible to arouse a new interest in life, which 
might easily be worth the discomfort and inconven- 
ience of a hard illness. In brief, the first essential 
in the treatment of such a case is to so influence the 
patient as to give her as near a normal viewpoint as 
possible. This being done, she stands an equal chance 
with the average woman. The bachelor who in his 
younger days congratulates himself on his freedom 
from the uncatalogued problems of family life be- 
comes less assured as to his happy estate as the years 
advance. Success which is to be shared has a better 
flavor than success which is to minister solely to self- 
gratification. As some one has happily phrased it, 
"Celibacy is a pleasant breakfast, a tolerable lunch, 
but a very poor dinner"; and as the years go by, and 
the digestion becomes less reliable, the average bache- 
lor is in a position to attach special significance to 
this simile. 

Therefore, when the more or less dehumanized 
bachelor becomes sick and in a position to appreciate 
his lonely estate more than usual, the first step in the 
relief of his condition is, if possible, to establish that 
natural bond of sympathy with domestic life which 
does so much to inspire courage. All the tonics in a 
well-equipped apothecary shop are not to be com- 
pared for efficacy with the removal of the grumpy 
patient, thoroughly down on his luck, from the bleak 
discomfort of even sumptuously appointed apart- 
ments to the sympathetic atmosphere of a real home, 
with perhaps a big-hearted married sister or niece, 



The Celibate of Fifty or Sixty. 199 

and some well brought up young children to all take 
a genuine interest in their usually aloof relative, now 
brought to earth from his normal seclusion. Of 
course, the foregoing program does not so frequently 
happen. More commonly the poor, lone Robinson 
Crusoe remains in his apartments with a trained 
nurse or goes to a hospital, from which he eventually 
emerges to resume his accustomed mode of life. But 
in either event, if the doctor were really free to speak 
his mind (which unfortunately he generally is not), 
he might, with entire compatibility with the code of 
ethics, point out to the patient the psychological and 
even physiological benefits of so arranging his affairs 
as to devote some of his time, energy and substance 
to the upbringing and education of small children, 
even if for no other reason than the selfish motive of 
establishing a new interest in life. 

Instances have been known where the lonely old 
bachelor has become fully convinced of the wisdom of 
this course and has so revolutionized his mode of life 
as to marry a widow with a group of small children. 
Such cases usually turn out happily ; but unfortunately 
this procedure cannot be generally advised, there not 
being a sufficient number of interesting families avail- 
able to supply such demands. 

However, opportunities are abundant where the 
untrammelled bachelor can assume the role of fairy 
godfather if he will. Probably there are few ex- 
amples of genuine hero worship surpassing the ad- 
miration of the small boy who has thus far known 
little but privation when some big, whole-souled man, 



200 Optimistic Medicine. 

apparently regarding him as "a regular fellow/' pro- 
ceeds in various practical ways to hold out the help- 
ing hand. When it is considered how little is some- 
times required to shift the life course of the small boy 
for good or the reverse, and also how much genuine 
manliness may be hidden behind a ragged coat and a 
badly soiled countenance, it seems strange that more 
attention is not given to this most agreeable form of 
civic duty. 

People who have acquired the habit often seem to 
derive their main diversions from mixing up with the 
misfortunes of others. The medical profession makes 
no claim to surpassing rectitude, but can show a 
gratifying immunity to one common failing of 
humanity viz., self-centered indifference to other 
people's woes. The average doctor is not a grouch. 
He cheerfully makes great sacrifices of personal com- 
fort when he knows that his only reward will prob- 
ably be an approving conscience, and even that shining 
possession loses its luster sometimes when the doctor 
concludes from abundant evidence that being philan- 
thropic is just another name for being an easy mark. 

Just as the physician often charges up 15 per 
cent, or 20 per cent, of his fees with little expectation 
of ever collecting 1 them, and lets another 10 per cent, 
go as pure philanthropy, so there are a few other 
people who get the helping others habit and seem to 
enjoy it. But, in the main, the person who is en- 
trapped into some act of involuntary helpfulness 
deplores the necessity of it as he would the loss of a 
tooth. 



The Celibate of Fifty or Sixty. 201 

That time-honored medical joke which makes the 
doctor say to his patient, "Don't do as I do; do as I 
tell you," can hardly be applied to his philanthropy, 
as in this field of endeavor the doctor does a great 
deal that can well be emulated, and says nothing about 
it at all. 

If it is better to wear out than to rust out, the 
doctor certainly should know. Few physicians have 
time or opportunity for that pitying watchfulness of 
self which so well exemplifies this corrosion of men- 
tal and physical function when the attention is turned 
from outward to inward. 

And so in the case of the elderly celibate, the 
rapidity of the decline from vigor to senile weakness 
largely depends upon the degree of personal useful- 
ness. And as the person whose attention is concen- 
trated solely upon self has too much to worry about 
to have much time or energy to devote to general 
usefulness, his case is, indeed, hopeless, unless he can 
be jarred loose from his pet routine. 

Now, who can be delegated to issue the necessary 
words of warning to those who are so plainly in need 
of it? There can be but one answer. It is the -doc- 
tor's job. He and he only can place before the vic- 
tims of single blessedness, and their narrow sphere in 
life, the necessity of breaking away and giving their 
unused brain and nerve cells exercise while the over- 
worked ones get a rest. 

The medical problem identified with the treatment 
of the unmarried man or woman of advanced years 
is, of course, complicated, because of the handicaps 



202 Optimistic Medicine. 

which have been to but a limited extent set forth. 
Habits, which are such factors of increasing domi- 
nance in the lives of those who have led a married ex- 
istence, attain a special influence with those whose 
personal attention is little diverted from themselves 
and their limited sphere of action. It therefore be- 
comes necessary, in the treatment of such cases, to 
devote more than usual attention to the probable ef- 
fects of these personal habits and channels of thought. 
Nearly everything which is rational may, if carried to 
excess, become abnormal. About every person of in- 
telligence understands that there is probably no more 
wholesome article of food than roast beef; but if 
the consumption of roast beef is carried beyond 
reasonable limits it may become a menace to health. 
The prominent characteristic of the elderly celibate is 
to develop strong likings for certain restricted articles 
of food and drink. By a similar form of reasoning 
there is probably no halfway policy in an old maid's 
fondness for cats. She either is much devoted to 
these animals or she holds them in absolute execra- 
tion, and it is probable that maidenly devotion to cats 
and parrots is fully counter-balanced by the number 
of old bachelors who abhor them. 

Therefore it may be consistently reaffirmed that, 
in the treatment of this class of patients, nearly as 
much attention must be devoted to idiosyncrasy as to 
pathology. To so direct the treatment as to establish 
as remedial factors the employment of faculties which 
have for a long time been dormant is to not only pre- 
pare the way for the most favorable prognosis under 



The Celibate of Fifty or Sixty. 203 

the circumstances, but to in certain cases establish 
new interests in life, a more hygienic mode of daily 
existence and a considerable addition to the general 
expectation of life. 

It is, of course, taken for granted that any change 
of habit in these cases will be generally undertaken 
by the patient with great reluctance, but if the recom- 
mendations of the physician under such conditions 
are sound and based upon well-balanced reasoning, 
the very evidence of such reluctance is a strong argu- 
ment in favor of the doctor's insisting upon carrying 
out the plan. 

Next to the advantages to be derived through the 
association of these elderly celibates with young 
people is the establishment of personal contact with 
the useful domestic animals. There is something 
peculiarly comforting in the companionship of an in- 
telligent dog or horse or in the possession and de- 
velopment of cattle. Of course, it is unnecessary to 
mention the instinctive fondness of femininity for 
hens and chickens. No better advice can be given to 
the elderly and unattached man or woman than the 
recommendation of these forms of diversion. The im- 
portance of establishing these side interests becomes 
more manifest when it is considered how little there 
is in the lives of some people to supply that eager de- 
termination to recover from a serious illness which is 
often so encouraging a factor in a married patient. 
For a woman to have the feeling that her life has 
been a failure, and that if she lives she may become 
a burden upon her relatives, may considerably more 



204 Optimistic Medicine. 

than offset all the remedies and professional plati- 
tudes the doctor can provide. Nowhere is the pathos 
of dependence upon the next of kin more apparent 
than in the cases of gradual decline of health among 
the indigent and unmarried. 

The personal attitude of the physician in such 
cases is of far more than ordinary influence. Noth- 
ing is more helpful to patients of the aforementioned 
type than to have the breezy, big-hearted doctor show 
them the deference which belongs to a real personage. 
Often the best stimulant they can have is a tonic to 
their self-esteem. Not only does this form of mental 
stimulus produce almost magical results upon the self- 
abased patient depressed with a remorseful feeling 
that she is a burden and a nuisance, but the influence 
upon the household may be greatly for the benefit of 
the patient. There is little that reflects less credit 
upon the medical profession than the fortunately rare 
instance where, taking his cue from indifferent family 
members, the doctor allows that unpleasant family 
sentiment to be reflected in his intercourse with a 
self-depreciatory patient. 

The spinster whose age was enveloped in mystery, 
but who was reported by some juvenile member of the 
family to be old enough so that "tea rests her/ 5 has 
her counterpart in the old bachelor and his devotion 
to black cigars. There comes a time when the same 
old bachelor is less physically active, and when a 
heavy meal, followed by heavy smoking, does not 
produce as pleasant an effect as heretofore. And 
whereas, with reasonable limitations, of course, it is 



The Celibate of Fifty or Sixty. 205 

not considered to be good hygienic policy for the 
physician to take an arbitrary stand with the average 
patient against personal habits which have 'become 
second nature, it must, as before stated, always be 
borne in mind that such personal habits are apt to 
acquire a greater intensity with celibates than with 
married people of the same age who are more or less 
subject to family influences. It will, therefore, re- 
quire some careful explanations to make it clear that 
there should be a tendency to restriction in the use of 
tea, coffee, and tobacco. To be sure, such people are 
prone to be obstinate and in some instances even re- 
sentful over the curtailment of these normally com- 
forting habits. But, as before stated, if restriction 
is necessary, the doctor is far more likely to make 
such necessity clear to the patient than could be ex- 
pected in the case of friends and relatives. 

The all-important influence of rational exercise 
is so widely appreciated among people of intelligence 
at this time that it might seem superfluous to make 
special application of this practice to the unmarried 
who are advanced in years. But it should be remem- 
bered that, in order to secure the real hygienic bene- 
fits from physical exercise, the effects of such prac- 
tices must be weighed from the standpoint of their in- 
fluence upon the visceral organs. A moderate amount 
of walking in the open air is an excellent thing, so far 
as it goes, but unfortunately it does not go far enough. 
There is usually a sufficient amount of difficulty in- 
volved in securing the accomplishment of the proper 
amount of exercise of the right kind by the average 



206 Optimistic Medicine. 

adult. Such difficulties are intensified when these 
recommendations are directed to those who have 
acquired an exaggerated idea of the social conven- 
tions. The head of an average sized family, realizing 
the need of a suitable system of exercise, would be 
more likely to be deterred from carrying out such a 
program through laziness than because of any thought 
of what his friends and associates might think about 
it. In fact, that would be the least of his concerns. 
On the other hand, the old bachelor who was advised 
to take up a system of exercise which would occasion 
amusement among his friends would naturally shrink 
from it, while the maiden lady should be expected to 
be even more reluctant to perhaps arouse smiles 
among her nephews and nieces by some radical 
departure from her strictly conventional form of 
exercise. 

It is allowable, in this connection, to lay excep- 
tional stress upon the matter of exercise, because it 
is, to a large degree, the basis of that good digestion 
and corresponding cheerfulness without which the 
life of the celibate becomes a very dull affair, indeed. 

A depressing factor in the lives of elderly un- 
married people is often found in their unfortunate 
readiness to assume that the average happy-go-lucky 
family, parents and children, regard them and their 
accentuated personal qualities in a more or less hu- 
morous way. This in itself constitutes a sufficient 
reason why physicians should regard such cases as 
something set aside from the average professional 
routine. Self-consciousness in the very .young is at 



The Celibate of Fifty or Sixty. 207 

least not abnormal, but in the elderly it becomes a 
pronounced personal characteristic which may even 
develop into mental instability. 

Few people probably realize the sense of isolation 
which overtakes people who have gradually been left 
to themselves. The celibate is peculiarly liable to this 
fate. Married friends have become more and more 
absorbed in their children and grandchildren, and a 
gulf, narrow perhaps at first, gradually widens until 
there is little remaining of common interest. All these 
facts are of much physiological significance, and may 
eventually become pathological in their application. 

No axiom in life can be, with consistency, more 
frequently emphasized than that "pluck wins." A 
person in advanced years who develops an organic 
weakness may secure a considerable probationary 
period of comparative comfort if he maintains cheer- 
ful courage. The kindly affectionate interest of 
friends, a sense of humor, a wish to comply with the 
determination of the family members to make a strong 
fight frequently carry the patient along year after 
year, until even with the handicap above mentioned 
the life span approaches the normal. Contrasting this 
situation with that of the patient isolated through a 
gradual loss of intimate sympathy with such early 
friends as still survive, and it is apparent that the 
combination of circumstances provides a considerable 
handicap. 

Treatment of such patients therefore becomes, to a 
very considerable extent, a matter of psychology. In 
order that they may have an even chance they must 



v -~ 



208 Optimistic Medicine. 



be kept reasonably cheerful, which means that their 
associates must take a real, rather than perfunctory, 
interest in them. It may seem that this is a field for 
the social worker rather than the doctor; but, un- 
fortunately, the social worker never can speak with 
authority, while the doctor can. 

Some day a physician of sympathetic discernment 
will write a modern monograph which will show the 
pathological influence on the heart, liver, and perhaps 
even the elbows of the multitudinous forms of mis- 
directed mentality. Until this time arrives physicians 
will continue, as in the past, to devote as much per- 
sonal attention as feasible to the correction of such 
errors, and the clinical results will be largely measured 
by the intuitive skill thus employed. 

Just as the average lawyer is apt to be successful 
in his profession proportionally as he possesses an 
accurate business instinct, so should the physician be 
qualified on appropriate occasions to discuss business 
problems with women patients whose lives are iso- 
lated. Exerting the influence he does, he could no 
doubt prevent many sad financial mistakes. This 
field is too broad for anything but the most casual 
reference here; but there is one general principle on 
which the doctor might, with propriety, exercise his 
influence on occasion. The single woman of anything 
like reasonable judgment naturally has a horror of an 
old age of poverty. If she has had an opportunity to 
earn fair wages or has been the recipient of legacies, 
she is inclined late in life to become very economical. 
This, of course, is commendable in a way; but there 



The Celibate of Fifty or Sixty. 209 

can be no doubt that the habit of economy carried to 
excess tends to create a feeling of indifference on the 
part of such a person's natural heirs. The shabby 
old aunt who hangs on to every dollar so long as pos- 
sible through the morbid fear that she might perhaps 
in some more or less remote period be in want is not 
calculated to inspire admiration among her nephews 
and nieces or those who will naturally inherit her 
property. 

Such problems have been worked out to perhaps a 
greater extent in England than in any other part of 
the world. The solution of such a situation in Great 
Britain would naturally be the purchase of a life an- 
nuity. The maiden lady who still has an earning 
capacity and who has a moderate annuity provided 
for her lifetime can be of an optimistic frame of mind, 
can live comfortably, wear good clothes, and expe- 
rience the cheerfulness which naturally comes with 
that state of affairs. Her relatives and friends, who, 
had she followed the opposite policy of accumulating 
and fanatically saving every cent, might look upon 
her as a very unattractive person to be tolerated in the 
hope of what is to come after, will now take a very 
different view of the situation. It is for their interest, 
if she is generous, to make it just as pleasant for her 
as possible, and the single woman of advanced age 
whose friends and] relatives are kind to her is by na- 
ture inclined to reciprocate to the best of her ability. 
Therefore, when we consider the psychological con- 
trasts between the one type and the other, there would 
seem to be abundant professional reasons why the 



14 



210 Optimistic Medicine. 

physician should, as a medical expedient, exercise the 
prerogative of his office as above suggested. 

So in completing the circle of reflections on the 
celibate and his or her medical and social status, the 
conclusions we must naturally reach are that such 
people must approximate as near as possible in their 
mode of life those who have reached a similar age in 
the married state. Just so long as the capacity for 
usefulness continues, it is physiologically best for 
men and women to continue their activities. This 
policy ensures the maintenance of the feeling that 
one still has a value in the general social scheme 
which, if associated with a reasonable assurance that 
there are no dark, chilling problems of poverty in the 
future, will, with proper medical supervision, provide 
a fairly attractive outlook. 

But it is not healthful to have life too comfortable, 
as nature abhors idleness. A single woman of fifty- 
five or sixty, with no near relatives, had saved from 
her earnings as bookkeeper a snug little sum. She 
decided to take life easier, and became a companion 
to a wealthy woman. Shut of! from her former busi- 
ness associates, this normally active woman found 
time heavy on her hands. Having a good digestion, 
she, however, enjoyed the excellent menu provided by 
her employer. She had little to do, and although a 
strong, robust woman, naturally cheerful, the days 
seemed endless. Of course, physical degeneration 
developed, which, in this case, took the form of 
Bright's disease. Quite likely, had she fallen a vic- 
tim to the wiles of some mining or oil stock promoter, 



The Celibate of Fifty or Sixty. 211 

and thus lost her savings, this estimable lady might 
have remained usefully employed to an advanced age, 
as she would not have acquired the mistaken idea that 
it was for her interest to avoid all nerve strain and 
fatigue. 

A great deal of misdirected sympathy is poured 
out upon certain people who seem to be having a 
rather hard life, but who somehow seem to retain life 
and vigor to an advanced age. A busy life with com- 
panionship is much to be preferred to an easy life that 
is lonesome. 



CHAPTER XII. 
PRESERVING THE SPECIAL SENSES. 

ABOUT the first sense of which the human family 
becomes cognizant is that of taste. The possession of 
this sense of taste wonderfully encourages the small 
infant to develop other senses. 

Throughout the years of lucid human intelligence 
this same sense of taste maintains its pre-eminence. 
Plump grandmothers who know they should limit 
themselves in indulgence in their favorite foods are 
lured along by the sense of taste until they find them- 
selves very near that status which is known as being 
just plain fat. 

Just because possession of this fascinating ability 
to enjoy the taste of very suitable food may some- 
times lead to excess is far from being a reflection upon 
that essential healthful faculty. So it seems all the 
more surprising that some people should allow them- 
selves to lose this priceless possession to a consider- 
able extent, either through badly neglected colds or 
indulgence in heavily spiced foods, both of which may 
cause a considerable perversion of this highly valued 
sense. 

A prolific cause of degeneration of the sense of 
taste is neglected teeth. If we contrast the correct 
taste of the young child with a clean mouth uncon- 
taminated by decayed teeth or unwholesome dietary 
habits with that of the person who finds it expedient 
(212) 



Preserving the Special Senses. 213 

to develop a highly artificial flavor in his foods in 
order to create any appetite for them whatever, it can 
be readily seen that there has been a great change 
from that which is normal. To be able to eat simple 
food with a natural craving denotes a healthy sense 
of taste and a normal digestion. People of adult years 
who are continually stimulating themselves to de- 
velop an abnormal appetite for unwholesome food 
might well have their attention called by their family 
physician to this contrast. 

The proneness of poor human nature to fallacy is 
perhaps never better illustrated than in the tendency 
of many families to systematically neglect their teeth 
on the theory that artificial .ones will serve the pur- 
pose, also saving trouble and much expense. It is evi- 
dent that there is not sufficient reciprocity between 
physicians and dentists on these points. If the dentist 
was a little more prone to send patients to physicians 
when it was obviously for the patient's interest and if 
physicians gave a little more attention to the prob- 
lems of mouth digestion, the interests of the public 
would undoubtedly be served to a greater extent than 
at present. 

As it is, we see certain members of the medical 
profession undermining the dentists, and, in fact, 
placing them under a certain ban of suspicion. It has 
become the fad with a considerable number of physi- 
cians to credit practically all ills which they locate in 
any of their patients which are of obscure origin as 
tracing back in some way to the teeth. Obviously, if 
some unfortunate patient has been in a state of semi- 



214 Optimistic Medicine. 

collapse of health for a year or two, and his physician 
confidently tells him that his teeth are responsible for 
all his trouble, it will create a feeling of prejudice on 
the part of the patient towards those teeth, and he 
practically says "away with them, and I will employ 
in their place a collection of foreign bodies which can 
be removed at my will." Of course, this kind of 
primitive sentiment limits the ambition and scope of 
the dentist to a very elementary form of work. What 
satisfaction can there be in a dentist preserving a fine 
set of teeth for a patient only to a little later on have 
the same patient come to regard those teeth with ab- 
horrence and indignation because of a whole catalogue 
of miseries dangled before his eyes one by one by the 
consulting physician? 

As before stated, it is desirable that physicians and 
dentists reach one understanding on these points. 
Autogenous vaccine has taken the place of the slaugh- 
ter of many innocent teeth in the treatment of certain 
forms of abscesses, and it is probable that if a pains- 
taking x-ray examination of each and every tooth 
could be made there would be a verdict for acquittal 
for most of the defendants in the average case. 

Just as there are physicians who would advise the 
wholesale slaughter of teeth on suspicion, and who 
would eradicate any pair of tonsils that had ever 
dared to exhibit any exudate, so there are others who 
would coerce, rather than carry on an argument with 
the sinuses. There is little doubt that the lay public 
in general is becoming disposed to fight shy of the pro- 
fessional bull in the china shop who would smash 



Preserving the Special Senses. 215 

every organ that did not "carry on" according to the 
plans and specifications of the textbooks. Right it is, 
however, that nature, who knows many moods, and 
who lies down on her job at times seemingly, never- 
theless, if assisted rather than interrupted will often 
perform that which seems to be a miracle. To revive 
and redevelop the sense of taste which has become 
perverted or practically destroyed by catarrhal con- 
ditions in the upper nasal regions is well worth a con- 
siderable amount of expenditure of time and money on 
the part of the patient and of careful consideration on 
the part of the doctor. 

The gratifications of the senses are the dividends 
which are paid on the general organism. If they are 
defective or wholly crippled, life presents just so much 
less of that which makes it worth while to live. Many 
physicians have opportunities to arouse their patients 
to the importance of the care of these special senses, 
and it is unfortunate that they do not take more fre- 
quent advantage of these occasions. The sense of 
smell may be lost with comparative ease and persist 
throughout a long life. Such a misfortune is gen- 
erally unnecessary. Protection of the ability to 
detect odors may often save life, not to mention the 
almost inevitable practical occupational benefits which 
may come from the full protection of this sense. Yet 
it is nothing uncommon for a person to lose the sense 
of smell, giving little attention to the possibility of 
having it restored through careful professional atten- 
tion, and to go along throughout life thus badly 
handicapped. 



216 Optimistic Medicine. 

When the average intelligent layman understands 
the matter clearly, he will gladly and promptly con- 
sent to have the underlying structure of his nasal and 
oral cavities x-rayed in sufficient variety to satisfy the 
most exacting and conscientious family doctor. The 
whole trouble lies in the fact that the layman in ques- 
tion does not understand. He thinks there must be 
some graft about paying $3.00 for an x-ray of a 
tooth or some other section of the nasopharynx. 
When he comprehends that the x-ray eliminates 
guesswork to a large extent, he will show himself to 
be businesslike enough to enthusiastically endorse all 
that kind of photography that may be necessary for 
himself and his entire family. But the trouble with 
most of these people is that numerous doctors do not 
take the trouble to explain much about it. They like 
to feel that their patients' repose the most entire con- 
fidence in them and their judgment, whereas there is 
considerable danger that they will expect too much. 
This is a very literal era. Nearly everybody likes to 
be shown the reason. It gives an ordinary family a 
Bolsheviki feeling to think that they have been led on 
and exploited by a combination of medical specialists, 
and everything should be done to avoid the develop- 
ment of any such suspicion. 

Enormous sums of money are wasted on frivolous 
things by families who are too ignorant to appreciate 
the importance of sending their children to the dentist 
in time to save their six-year molars. As above sug- 
gested, doctors should co-operate with dentists in urg- 
ing the importance of all such conservation methods. 



Preserving the Special Senses. 217 

In a vague way, perhaps, the lay public knows 
as much about the care of the eyes as about any topic 
pertaining to medicine. But even in this field, and in 
this invaluable possession, many people suffer se- 
riously through life from the negligence of their par- 
ents, due, of course, mainly to ignorance. The pub- 
lic schools are accomplishing a good deal, however, 
in this direction. Nevertheless, there is something 
incongruous in having it left for school authorities 
to detect some serious defect in a pupil whose parents 
have, perhaps for years, been under the systematic 
supervision of a thoroughly competent family physi- 
cian. It is plain to see that any intelligent mother 
should be educated to the importance of having her 
children duly inspected as to their special senses by 
the family doctor. A great deal of harm is done 
through neglect of this kind, and it is a question 
whether the neglect on the part of such parents does 
not, in a large measure, reflect back upon the family 
doctor. 

It is to be hoped as one result of the general 
world upheaval that there will be a greater apprecia- 
tion of the dependence of every family upon that 
medical profession which has accomplished such 
wonderful results in the restoration of sick and 
wounded soldiers. In such great crises of life pre- 
vention rightfully resumes its proper relation, 
whereas, in the ordinary hum-drum routine of the 
average community, children are allowed to drift 
along well supplied with food and raiment, which may 
involve much expenditure of money, but deprived of 



218 Optimistic Medicine. 

that which would cost but a moderate sum and take 
up but a modicum of professional attention, and which 
would detect errors of vision and conditions of the 
nose and throat, which, although easily corrected at 
the outset, may result in positive and permanent 
physical defects. 

There has been a sentiment among the medical 
profession that they must not, under any circum- 
stances, appear to be soliciting business. This senti- 
ment should be banished to that era when it was con- 
sidered to be poor husbandry to plant beans in the 
dark of the moon. 

Perhaps more real danger results from neglect 
of the nasal passages than from any other part of the 
human anatomy. It would be impossible, within the 
limits of the space at our disposal, to catalogue all the 
physical disadvantages which may follow a policy of 
systematically ignoring conditions of the posterior 
nares and pharynx. 

If we are to attach any importance whatever to 
the prevention of disease as a civic duty, it should be- 
come a routine custom with all family physicians to 
impress upon the parents under their supervision that 
any persistent month-in-and-month-out catarrhal state 
of the child's nasopharynx means a material lessening 
of that child's probable future usefulness throughout 
life. 

The normal condition of a healthy child of 
course, sometimes interrupted by transitory colds is 
a perfectly healthy state of the mucous membranes of 
the upper air passages. This cannot be possible if 



Preserving the Special Senses. 219 

there are adenoids or obstructions of any kind in the 
nasal passage. The tidy housewife who will become 
semihysterical over the acquisition by her small 
daughter of a few of those highly undesirable in- 
sects which find a lodgment in the child's hair, will, 
year after year, ignore, with placid unconsciousness, 
the far more serious menace of a persistent cold in the 
head and obstructed breathing. 

The consequences of these unrelieved conditions 
are often constitutional and far reaching, as before 
mentioned. Locally they may work serious disaster 
to the senses of taste and smell and especially of hear- 
ing. 

Few lay people comprehend the direct connection 
between the posterior nares and the Eustachian tube 
of the ear. 

They have an idea that the ear is a dark, myste- 
rious cavern all shut off by itself. If the doctor could 
explain to the mother of a family just how direct the 
connection is between the posterior nose and the ear, 
it might change the history of many a household. 

TQ those who give the matter casual thought the 
loss of sight seems to be an infinitely greater mis- 
fortune than the loss of hearing. Viewed from the 
economic standpoint, this is practically correct, but 
psychologically it is not. The person who can hear 
can always retain contact with friends, whereas deaf- 
ness shuts one off into a world of itself. 

Therefore it seems a sad reflection upon a mem- 
ber of that profession which has to its credit so many 
extraordinary instances of self-sacrifice in the life of 



220 Optimistic Medicine. 

practically every physician to shamble along and 
allow so much mystery and misfortune to develop 
merely through pegligence in looking after the wel- 
fare of the various noses, throats and ears whose des- 
tiny he holds in his hands. 

It ought not to be very difficult for even a busy 
doctor to explain to some housemother that violent 
blowing of a nose afflicted with chronic catarrh is 
likely to cause an extension of the catarrhal process 
into the Eustachian tube with a secretion which will 
disturb the air pressure and possibly lead to perma- 
nent impairment of the hearing. People could under- 
stand those things if their doctors would only take the 
trouble to explain them, and then if they have some- 
thing a little the matter with their ears they will go to 
the doctor's and have it looked after. 

Somehow physicians seem to be a little shy of hav- 
ing anything to do with the ears. They perhaps get 
over-impressed by a few specialists of a type who, 
through ponderous assumptions of vast learning, are 
accepted too nearly at their own valuation. 

A prominent nose, throat, and ear specialist tells 
of the time when he attended a meeting of his pet 
society of specialists and noted among the papers to 
be read one entitled, "How to Blow the Nose." He 
said at first he thought that was a silly title for a 
serious scientific article, but it turned out that the 
paper when read before the society was the most 
helpful and practical of the entire series. This could 
easily be the fact, as a specialist of good judgment 
and experience could, if he saw fit, indicate a large 



Preserving the Special Senses. 221 

number of serious consequences of reckless nose- 
blowing. 

Every family ought to know that a catarrhal bub- 
ble in the ear which is made evident by swallowing is 
a condition fraught with danger, and that in that case 
proper spraying of the posterior part of the nose and 
throat and perhaps the application of air pressure 
should be insisted upon until those regions are in a 
normal state. 

Furthermore, every family practitioner should be 
prepared to explain under such circumstances how the 
ear-drum, which is liable to become depressed where 
there is catarrh in the Eustachian tube, may be 
pushed out normally by the patient himself projecting 
his breath posteriorly through the same Eustachian 
tube. This faculty may be acquired by a little prac- 
tice on the part of the patient, and if utilized a couple 
of times a day where there is a roaring in one ear may 
materially help in correcting the difficulty. Every lay 
family should understand the advantages which may 
come from massage or counter-irritant applied ex- 
ternally. Many an abscess of possible mastoid dimen- 
sions might be prevented by such methods. 

Among the barbarous and semicivilized races only 
the strongest children survived. It is one of the 
drawbacks to our highly civilized nation that many 
families degenerate physically notwithstanding a more 
than adequate system of protection from heat, cold 
and hunger, only to develop the marks of physical 
degeneration through the neglect of proper breathing 
and mastication. The semicivilized urchin is very 



222 Optimistic Medicine. 

glad, indeed, to thoroughly chew foods in their primi- 
tive forms, whereas the child raised in Anglo-Saxon 
countries in particular is pampered with predigested 
foods which require little use of the teeth, and suffers 
accordingly. 

Nothing brings out the flavor of food like proper 
chewing. Faddists have apparently talked this sub- 
ject to death in various periodicals, as we see few 
references to the question of proper mastication at 
this period. The subject is therefore left practically 
undiscussed, whereas it should be one of the duties of 
the medical profession to explain this matter on every 
possible occasion. 

The child that is not taught to eat properly and 
breathe properly will be handicapped through life. 

Few physicians consulted with reference to condi- 
tions of general depression, with poor digestion and 
lack of appetite, make any thorough investigation of 
the conditions of the mouth and pharynx. Frequently 
this region may afford the clue to much of the trouble. 
For an unclean mouth there is a perverted sense of 
taste, and every mouth is unclean which contains dis- 
eased teeth. A catarrhal state of affairs in the back 
of the nose and upper part of the pharynx must also 
exert a pernicious influence upon the doctor's prob- 
lem of building up the patient. Prescription of a 
tonic may help a little, but the removal of the per- 
haps major cause of the entire trouble would natu- 
rally be a much greater professional achievement. 

Nutrition is maintained through the intake of 
food, which is subjected to a process of digestion. It 



Preserving the Special Senses. 223 

is just as important that that part of the digestive 
process which begins at the mouth be carried out 
scientifically as it is that food be acted upon properly 
in the stomach. In fact, any perversion of the mouth 
and throat may greatly reduce the digestive efficiency 
of the stomach. 

Every family physician has to contend with a cer- 
tain attitude of suspicion among some of his ultra- 
thrifty patients. If he is consulted about a child for 
some trifling ailment and he discovers other condi- 
tions heretofore unknown to the parents which re- 
quire attention, they are often inclined to take these 
suggestions with a rather poor grace. They seem to 
imbibe the idea that the doctor is "grafting" upon 
them. They may retain that idea unless the doctor 
makes a clear, painstaking explanation of the situa- 
tion which cannot fail to penetrate their intellectual 
armor. If this is done, they may entirely change their 
attitude, and may regard the 'doctor as the benefactor 
of the family; at least, a little later on. 

But, unless this explanation is made, the family 
attitude may be that they have been exploited, and 
they will never appreciate what the doctor's inter- 
cession may accomplish for the child a few years later 
on. 

Of course, it does not mean so much to society in 
general when the doctor investigates the mouth and 
throat of an adult patient with deranged nutrition, 
because much of the harm caused by earlier defects 
will have become beyond remedy. Nevertheless, 
there is a certain class of middle-aged people who 



224 Optimistic Medicine. 

need to have the riot act read to them by the family 
doctors, and they are the ones who allow their teeth 
gradually to decay merely for the purpose of saving a 
few dollars. Every doctor ought to invent new and 
epigrammatic terms of admonition and contempt for 
that class of people. In carrying out this inelegant 
and unscientific process, it often happens that several 
years will elapse between the time when the teeth are 
in a tolerable state of preservation and when they 
have reached a condition which, as a matter of busi- 
ness, justifies their removal, to be replaced with arti- 
ficial teeth. During this period it is impossible to con- 
ceive the amount of deleterious and germ-laden mat- 
ter which may have passed along with the food and 
been absorbed by the digestive tract. 

Some day, perhaps, some philanthropist will con- 
ceive of the idea of endowing secretly, of course a 
certain number of general practitioners whose pur- 
pose shall be to locate where they can come into con- 
tact with a certain type of self-satisfied, fairly pros- 
perous, thrifty families. These physicians must be so 
absolutely regardless of the financial returns of their 
professional efforts as to in all instances call a spade a 
spade and tell just as many as possible careless, 
stingy, or indifferent parents the truth> the whole 
truth, and nothing but the truth as to the consequences 
of their neglect of the special senses of the different 
family members. Of course, such tactics would cause 
an immediate interruption of all diplomatic relations 
between the doctor and the patient, but it might hap- 
pen that these indignant patients would explain to 



Preserving the Special Senses. 225 

their friends some of the scathing and contemptuous 
things said by the doctor in question and that event- 
ually much good would be accomplished. Probably 
there are few physicians who could not recall smug, 
self-satisfied parents richly entitled to an illuminating 
discourse of this kind. 

There can be no question that there is a pro- 
nounced civic duty resting upon the family physician 
with reference to these physical defects. Few fami- 
lies of even quite superior intelligence appreciate the 
possible ill effects of uncorrected defects of the nose 
and pharynx. They do not realize that restricted 
breathing may prevent full development of the chest 
and tend to impoverishment of the blood, which in its 
turn predisposes to tuberculosis or at best to a neu- 
rotic temperament. If the physician makes it his cus- 
tom to discover such conditions where they exist, and 
explains to parents the unfavorable results of allowing 
such conditions to go uncorrected, he has placed the 
responsibility for neglect squarely on the shoulders of 
the fathers and mothers themselves. Where parents 
understand the connection between such unwholesome 
states and the finicky appetite, bad breath and per- 
version of the senses of smell, taste and hearing which 
may easily accompany these conditions, the cases are 
few where they will not make some effort to have 
these disorders relieved. 

There is little doubt that many a misfit in business 
life, working with a fifty per cent, mental and physical 
efficiency, might have had an entirely different career 
if he had had proper medical attention in childhood. 

15 



226 Optimistic Medicine. 

The outlook of those who are physically and ner- 
vously defective is not reassuring at this present era 
of strenuous competition in the world's commerce. 
Parents owe it to their children to prepare them for 
this strenuous life with the least possible physical and 
mental handicap. If parents, as is generally the case, 
are incapable of detecting and appreciating these de- 
fects in their children, their case is hopeless unless 
some physician with a discerning mind and sense of 
civic responsibility finds out these conditions and 
recommends their correction. 

About the only organized efforts to discover and 
correct the defects under discussion are what is done 
by medical inspection of school children. This, of 
course, in the aggregate accomplishes much good, but 
it is far from adequate. Furthermore, school inspec- 
tion is largely directed to the discovering of infec- 
tious diseases with the object of preventing their 
spread. It is at best superficial as compared with the 
real needs of this period. The more people are brought 
up in comparative luxury and pampered by indulgent 
parents, the more the necessity that the family physi- 
cian may exercise the initiative to forcefully place 
these facts before the parents and if possible ensure 
action on their part. 

Perhaps a surer way to interest parents in these 
subjects is to invite their attention to the physical 
shortcomings of their own. A great many people of 
middle age and older are suffering from neglect which 
to a considerable extent is personal. They do not take 
enough interest in having their various individual and 



Preserving the Special Senses. 227 

several catarrhs treated to really get much accom- 
plished. There is an opportunity for many warm dis- 
courses on the doctor's part as to the folly and worse 
of such neglect. 

Most people who try to treat themselves with a 
nasal spray overdo it at first, and then become dis- 
gusted and stop the process entirely. This is largely 
due to the fact that for some reason there seems to be 
a tendency to the recommendation of these alkaline 
sprays in a higher strength than is agreeable to the 
average mucous membrane. All such recommenda- 
tions should be accompanied with the advice that these 
nasal sprays be made very mild at first. They should 
be used in a warm state, at least in cold weather, and 
careful instructions given as to application. The par- 
ent who has been cured of some annoying condition 
of the nose and throat of considerable standing is 
pretty sure to take an interest in guarding his children 
against the same form of ailment. 

One of our early colonial flags bore the concise 
advice: "Mind your own business." It might, of 
course, be assumed that the majority of the medical 
profession have adopted this policy for their very own. 
They are reluctant to oiler suggestions to their pa- 
tients outside of the special limits within which they 
are consulted, which, while commendable modesty, is 
often poor civic policy. Everywhere numerous chil- 
dren of school age are seizing upon any excuse to give 
up their studies and become wage earners. The rea- 
sons, while frequently based upon the economic needs 
of the family, are nevertheless more commonly due to 



228 Optimistic Medicine. 

a feeling of discouragement on the part of pupils who 
fall behind in their classes and acquire a reputation 
for stupidity which can be traced in a large number of 
instances to some basic condition of the nose and 
throat. When we consider how boys who leave school 
for such causes may be hampered during their entire 
lifetime through lack of the education they ought to 
have secured, it reflects much discredit upon our 
boasted enterprise as a nation. 

Therefore it becomes apparent that every gen- 
eral practitioner should be prepared to do a certain 
amount of nose and throat work. There are innumer- 
able simple cases which could be relieved without re- 
course to the office of the specialist, who, however, if 
there could be a general awakening on this subject, 
would have his office crammed with patients in need of 
the more technical forms of treatment. We have a 
climate which is peculiarly exacting upon the mucous 
membranes ; hot and dry in summer, cold and damp in 
winter, and the sum total of necessary clinical work 
resulting is enormous. Let us hope that at no distant 
day the question of conservation of the special senses, 
which have their origin in such a limited tract of 
the human body, may receive the consideration it 
deserves. 



CHAPTER XIII. 
RETAINING EFFICIENCY LATE IN LIFE. 

As it usually requires a considerable number of 
years after physical maturity for man to develop full 
mental efficiency, it is apparent that any material 
shortening of the years of perfect mental function is a 
civic as well as individual loss. Therefore when the 
intelligent man or woman of fifty or sixty drops out 
of a life of useful activity, the community is weakened 
accordingly. 

If it is in the public interest that such useful lives 
be perpetuated as long as possible, the safeguarding 
of these social units by the physician is both a pro- 
fessional and civic duty. Unfortunately many useful 
citizens of average good sense at least seem to wish 
to avoid professional contact with the family doctor 
or any other doctor. 

From the standpoint of theory the reluctance of 
the average busy citizen, especially of the male gender, 
to seek medical advice is deplorable judgment. Prac- 
tically, however, many apparently sane people seem to 
think otherwise. The attitude seems to be: why 
should a person in health hunt for some flaw in his 
physical mechanism to worry about as long as that 
mechanism continues to function properly? How- 
ever, this natural shyness does not release the doctor 
from entire responsibility, by any means. 

(229) 



230 Optimistic Medicine. 

It is to be presumed that most families of fair 
standing have some physician in mind to whom they 
naturally turn in time of need. The physician who 
sustains this relation to such a family should be tact- 
ful enough to exercise a certain amount of influence, 
even upon those members of the family who have not 
found it necessary to consult him recently. 

The advantages of this policy can be made very 
great if some form of record be established. Only a 
very little data thus gathered together may be of great 
assistance in time of illness. If the physician knows 
the habits of a certain busy man, he is better able to 
formulate that psychological influence which counts 
for so much in the treatment of people of middle age 
or older. 

Suppose a physician knows some busy man of good 
standing in the community whose family is, generally 
speaking, under this doctor's care. Coming in con- 
tact with such a man in the ordinary way it would not 
seem to be a strain of professional ethics to urge upon 
him the importance of taking occasional vacations or 
in some other way getting out from under the daily 
grind of responsibility and business care. Surely 
there could be no impropriety in the physician who 
knows such a man in a friendly way, in offering sug- 
gestions which are conventional and justifiable even 
among ordinary business men themselves. In this 
way the doctor may often get a pretty fair idea of the 
physical condition of the head of a family without that 
individual himself realizing that he has said anything 
of any special significance. 



Retaining Efficiency Late in Life. 231 

Referring to such cases, we have in mind the semi- 
obstinate type of elderly business men who, always 
having been in pretty fair health, see no reason why 
they should not continue to be. They may, however, 
be adding to their business burdens rather than sub- 
tracting, which is a very bad habit after middle age. 
Any policy that will enable a physician to exercise a 
wholesome restraint upon this tendency is certainly to 
be commended. 

There seems to be an unfortunate custom of busy 
people of both sexes to gradually acquire the im- 
pression that they are absolutely indispensable in their 
various households and business offices. This perver- 
sion of mind is perhaps responsible for more prema- 
ture breakdowns than anything else. 

There could be no better professional advice of- 
lered to men and women of this type than that they 
should, so far as possible, unload all the details which 
they can possibly turn over to subordinates, retaining 
for themselves the function of directing the household 
or business without having incidentally to fritter away 
necessary vitality in tedious duties which can just as 
well be performed by some one else. The usefulness 
of any middle-aged person is greatly increased by the 
adoption of this policy. 

A state of good health is usually accompanied by 
a state of cheerfulness. The exceptions are when the 
person who is in normally good health is nevertheless 
so overworked as to be in a state of chronic fatigue. 
The naturally cheerful person who has gradually be- 
come morose is in a bad way, and often the protests 



232 Optimistic Medicine. 

and admonitions of other members of the family are 
unheeded. Any domestic duplicity which can mate- 
rialize a wholesome lecture from the family doctor 
under such circumstances is really justifiable. 

One of the first impulses of the person who is 
chronically overtired is to cut down on the food in- 
take. The appetite is lessened, and often symptoms of 
indigestion appear. When this state of things is 
accompanied by an even greater frenzy for work, 
shipwreck is not far off. 

It is unfortunate indeed that the "eight hour day/' 
which is considered so essential in labor circles, could 
not be incorporated into many a home and private 
office. 

After middle age the tendency seems to be either 
to overwork or underwork. It is hard to say which 
is the most injurious. Often the person who is in- 
terrupted in his apparently morbid desire for over- 
work by some unpleasant manifestation of symptoms 
becomes frightened and goes to the other extreme. In 
this case introspection gets in its perfect work, and 
the victim is worse off than ever. The physician who 
has a working knowledge of the general physical con- 
dition of such a patient in ordinary health can much 
better estimate the requirements of the case in a con- 
dition of illness. 

From the person who is positively ill, all care and 
responsibility should be taken away entirely until the 
equilibrium is once more restored. After that nothing 
is more encouraging to such a patient than the feeling 
that he is once more in physical condition to take up 



Retaining Efficiency Late in Life. 233 

his regular work and push it with a reasonable amount 
of energy. The mental stimulus resulting from that 
form of self-confidence is probably the best known 
tonic. 

There are some people who seem to have a mar- 
velous talent for idleness; but, as a rule, it may be 
assumed that idleness is an inherited, rather than an 
acquired, quality. The person who is naturally in- 
clined to take things easy often hails some form of 
physical depression with satisfaction as an excuse to 
loaf. On the other hand, the person who is naturally 
energetic is seldom benefited for any length of time 
by idleness. If he has to lie by and recuperate, it is 
important that he understand that he is simply filling 
in time, perfecting himself to once more resume his 
normal energetic habits. Under such conditions the 
person of philosophical mind may develop, by a 
reasonable amount of patience, a gradual accumula- 
tion of dynamic energy for performance of future 
tasks. 

It is one of the characteristics of femininity that 
they frequently show tendencies diverse to the fore- 
going. There are women who will apparently go the 
limit until their vital nerve forces are practically ex- 
hausted, and then collapse. They feel that they have 
performed their perfect work as long as their strength 
held out, and that now they are entitled to a period of 
recuperation. They lay aside all their customary 
anxieties and worries and give themselves over in a 
wholesouled manner to recuperation. Many a woman 
who was on the verge of collapse or worse at the age 



234 Optimistic Medicine. 

of fifty has in this way been restored to health and 
lived to an advanced age, apparently much the gainer 
for the enforced rest period. However, this could 
hardly be recommended as a scientific method of 
promoting longevity. 

There is a popular theory that there are about so 
many days' work in a man as in a horse. No doubt 
there is a measure of truth in this view, but it is 
nevertheless subject to many modifications. The work 
horse, highly fed and systematically employed at hard 
tasks, may appear sleek and healthy, but its span of 
life is much less than that of the saddle horse, accus- 
tomed to regular, but less fatiguing, exercise. Like- 
wise the man with intervals of relaxation and an ap- 
titude for enjoying rational diversion preserves youth- 
fulness, both physical and mental, far beyond that of 
the plugger with mind constantly bent upon routine 
tasks. In other words, both man and horse need a 
reasonable amount of variety. 

And if man, as a whole, is benefited by slipping 
off the usual burden occasionally, it likewise holds 
good that his various vital organs need a little rec- 
reation as well. The brain, stomach, heart, and kid- 
neys will naturally retain vitality and vigor longer if 
given occasional periods of relaxation. 

It is frequently reported of public men that when 
carrying their heaviest burdens they are accustomed, 
when mentally fatigued, to read the most thrilling ex- 
amples of light fiction. The benefits secured when 
the indoor man becomes bathed in perspiration from 
exercise in the open air are no doubt largely due to 



'Retaining Efficiency Late in Life. 235 

the sudden relief of the kidneys from their usual 
duties. The avoidance of meats on Fridays and the 
substitution therefor of foods easier of digestion is 
undoubtedly justified as a hygienic measure. 

Probably no single word is more expressive of 
well-being in the class of people under consideration 
than the word equilibrium. To preserve the equi- 
librium is to live a normal life to an advanced age. 
Disturbance of physical poise is always a tearing 
down process. 

The person who can begin the day's tasks after 
the breakfast hour with a general feeling of well- 
being may be generally regarded in a state of equi- 
librium. The digestive function is being carried out 
normally and the hours of repose have brought a res- 
toration from the fatigues of the previous day. This 
is the state of affairs which is desirable and normal, 
and should be preserved if possible. 

The normal middle-aged person who naturally be- 
comes a little drowsy after the evening meal if not 
actively employed in mind or body can generally be 
considered in a state of health, whereas if there is a 
restless feeling, all other conditions being equal, it 
may be assumed that there is at least too much nerve 
tension, if nothing more undesirable is going on. The 
person who is in this restless state should, if possible, 
ascertain the cause for it, and modify the mode of liv- 
ing as soon as it can be brought about. If there is 
anything that is causing anxiety, the will power 
should be exercised with the purpose of sidetracking 
these unpleasant suggestions, and the substitution in 



236 Optimistic Medicine. 

their stead of ideas which tend to promote a state of 
cheerfulness, and, if possible, that sense of humor 
which is a balm for so many unpleasant happenings 
of life. 

Probably one of the most depressing physical items 
in the lives of many fairly robust people of advanced 
years is the common social custom of eating more 
elaborate meals on Sunday than on other days. The 
mind may be taking a rest, but the digestion is work- 
ing overtime. This does not tend to the preservation 
of that equilibrium herein mentioned. Two fairly 
good meals on Sunday are probably considerably 
better for the average person than three. There 
are few people, however, who have the strength of 
mind to refrain from indulging in the extra meal on 
Sunday. 

One of the stumbling blocks to longevity among 
many people, no doubt, is persistence in eating certain 
foods which are better adapted to the earlier days of 
physical development than to the period of late ma- 
turity. Such extremely nutritious, but somewhat in- 
digestible, foods as baked beans, pork and the coarser 
vegetables could easily be left out of the menu with 
profit in the later years. Chemistry says that there 
are a large number of food units in the average baked 
beans, but it is doubtful if any very large proportion 
of these calories of nutrition is assimilated after mid- 
dle age. People who find themselves in a state of 
physical and mental activity late in life have usually 
long since habituated themselves to simple and easily 
digested foods. That which is wholesome and safe as 



Retaining Efficiency Late in Life. 237 

a dietary for a child of five is usually adapted to the 
person of 75 or 80 years. 

All these trite suggestions present no new ideas 
to the educated physician. But if the physician could 
more frequently make these points clear to his pa- 
tients much good could be accomplished. 

One of the most common agencies for the produc- 
tion of discomfort among many intelligent people in 
their later years is rheumatism. Many a man and 
woman of seventy or over could find life very pleasant 
indeed were it not for this plague, the cause of which, 
while, of course, variable, is very frequently due in its 
incipiency at least to unsuitable underwear. People 
of that robust type who can reasonably expect to live 
to an advanced age are quite prone to carelessness in 
this particular detail. They dislike the sensation of 
having wool next to their skin, and they postpone 
wearing woolen underwear until actually driven to it 
by the chill of winter. There is no question that this 
habit of procrastination is responsible for a great 
deal of the discomfort and mental depression which 
overtakes people who have developed chronic rheuma- 
tism late in life. These conditions are brought about 
partly by carelessness and largely by ignorance. 

A fine old man who lived to be over ninety enjoyed 
perfect health until the very last except for a stiffness 
of his joints which incapacitated him for all active ex- 
ercise. He had always had a horror of the touch of 
woolen underwear and only consented to wear it when 
it became apparent to him that he was suffering for 
the lack of it. Although in easy circumstances, it 



238 Optimistic Medicine. 

evidently had never occurred to him that by spending 
a little extra money he could secure a variety of 
weights of soft and non-irritating fabric that would 
afford him perfect protection without the discomfort 
which he had always associated with "winter flan- 
nels." There is probably no moderate investment 
which yields larger returns of comfort and safety to 
people of middle age and older than the acquirement 
of a variety of different weights of woolen under- 
wear of soft texture. Thus equipped there can be 
perfect protection with no discomfort. 

Individual fussiness in the matter of underwear is 
suggestive of much larger mental problems. The 
capacity for health and efficiency after middle age is 
composed of two essential units, viz., the major bodily 
organs, on the one hand, and the general tempera- 
ment, on the other. A person with the strongest kind 
of physique, but burdened with anxiety or an appre- 
hensive mental tendency, is liable to soon be floun- 
dering in deep waters, while the man or woman handi- 
capped by a weak heart or some other weakness of the 
flesh can be buoyed up by an optimistic spirit until the 
distinction is achieved of being one of the oldest in- 
habitants. In the one case the mental equipment is a 
dead weight and in the other is a life preserver. 

Many physicians have, as a part of their case 
records, outline charts on which they can indicate the 
location of the disease or weak spot in the physical 
makeup of the patient. It is probable that if some of 
this space thus utilized could be devoted to an analysis 
of the general mental outlook of the patient, the clin- 



Retaining Efficiency Late in Life. 239 

ical advantages would be more than equal to any other 
data thus assembled. 

We hear references made occasionally to the per- 
son who has a single track mind, and there is no doubt 
that this phrase carries with it much significance. As 
long as a person is in a state of health, his single 
track mind functions optimistically. But there are 
many people who, if suffering from some functional 
disorder, are very adversely affected mentally. They 
are burdened with apprehension and gloom, which 
greatly retards their recovery to normal condition. 
If, on the other hand, the person whose physical con- 
dition is somewhat disorganized, has sufficient flexi- 
bility of mind to sidetrack the associated load of un- 
favorable possibilities and get into a cheerful frame of 
mind, the result, as before suggested, is like taking 
the burden off the swimmer's shoulders and placing a 
life preserver under his arms. 

Winter contains added perils as people advance in 
age. Many elderly people of the practical "single 
track" tendencies seem to have a semicontempt for 
taking the precautions against chill which common 
sense should advise. They seem to have the fear that 
they will give the impression of coddling themselves. 
They wish to have it understood that they are just as 
well and robust as they ever were. This is the type 
of man who allows himself to become repeatedly 
chilled during a cold wave and who suddenly de- 
velops pneumonia as a plain, direct consequence of 
the chilling process. If every physician could each 
winter make it perfectly clear to a half dozen adults 



240 Optimistic Medicine. 

of general usefulness in the community just what the 
natural results of this exposure might easily be, the 
aggregate advantages would be of much social value. 

Hygiene as applied to many in advanced years 
seems to be a term of very flexible meaning. Per- 
sonal habits having become so thoroughly ingrafted 
upon the individual type, the wise physician refrains 
from suggesting any revolutionary changes. The 
man or woman of seventy or over who has a keen 
daily object in life will often seem to remain about 
stationary year after year, growing neither older nor 
younger. But woe be to the active person who sud- 
denly gets out of an occupation. 

Many people of slight knowledge of psychology 
are prone to speak sarcastically of those whom they 
classify as "money grubbers." They do not realize 
that this accumulative habit provides for certain 
types just that purpose in life which makes it worth 
living. The old man who has but a limited faculty 
for making friends, and there are many of them, nat- 
urally grows more and more lonely as his acquain- 
tances of earlier years drop away. He has found in 
the course of his observations, no doubt, that there is 
one kind of a friend that always seems to be faithful, 
namely, cash in bank. So he naturally proceeds to 
acquire as much of that friendly commodity as he 
can, thereby earning the reputation of being just 
another example of the "avarice of old age." This, 
of course, applies to those who hoard. 

On the other hand, there is probably no more 
healthful occupation in the world for the elderly than 



Retaining Efficiency Late in Life. 241 

to develop a keen enjoyment for making money, pro- 
vided that such accumulations are disposed of in a 
whole-souled way among the numerous objects that 
are always available for the consideration of those 
who are generous. Thus it appears that the person 
enterprising enough in old age to make money, thus 
affording a healthful occupation, and benevolent 
enough to be generous with it, and in this way secur- 
ing an agreeable form of recreation, has accomplished 
two important factors in arriving in health and com- 
fort at the green old age so poetically referred to by 
earlier writers who, no doubt, died young. 

Many a hard-working married couple keep up 
their courage during long years of stress with the 
mirage before their mental vision of the days of ease 
a few years ahead when they have made their pile 
and can give their entire attention to enjoyment. If 
there is any delusion existing among the general pub- 
lic which reflects especial discredit upon the human 
race it is the persistence of that idea in these days 
of enlightenment. Surely every doctor should take 
enough interest in his patients to explain to them the 
general psychological impossibility of carrying out 
such a plan. Rational recreation from month to 
month and a continuous performance of the general 
details of regular occupation undoubtedly hold out a 
great deal more promise for agreeable old age than 
any other scheme of life yet devised. 

It is probable, however, that, notwithstanding the 
advantages of useful occupation in the promotion of 
long life, there is one other agency which surpasses 

16 



242 Optimistic Medicine. 

them all. The old woman who keeps herself on inti- 
mate congenial terms with her granddaughters, 
knows all their beaus well enough to call them by their 
first names, and appreciates all the funny things 
which happen in the social life of these juniors, has 
probably come as near possessing the secret of eternal 
youth as anyone can. The octogenarian who can 
swap jokes with the boys of twenty possesses the 
same advantage. The man or woman who cultivates 
a keen sense of humor can always count upon con- 
genial companionship, and the tonic advantages of a 
hearty laugh have been known ever since the days of 
Hippocrates. 

Referring again to the problem of equilibrium, it 
may be justly stated that, in all probability, the ques- 
tion of diet looms exceedingly large in this connec- 
tion. The physician who is an adept in planning a 
suitable feeding policy for the elderly is sure to be 
regarded by such patients as next to being a magician. 

Idiosyncrasy plays so prominent a part in the 
dietary habits of many old people that it is practically 
impossible to impose a balanced ration upon those who 
are not exactly bedridden. The main problem, there- 
fore, lies in prevailing upon such people to avoid the 
two extremes of overfeeding or underfeeding. 

It is not enough to lay down arbitrary rules. It 
is necessary that patients know the reasons. The 
anemic subject should be made to clearly understand 
that a low diet usually means lower spirits with a 
possibility of tuberculosis, nervous breakdown, or an 
unbalanced mind lurking in the background. 



Retaining Efficiency Late in Life. 243 

Gross ignorance of hygiene is not alone dangerous 
to the patient; the patient's ignorance is sometimes a 
menace to the physician's reputation. 

A woman of fifty or sixty became run down in 
health because of an attack of diphtheria. She was 
thoroughly convinced that her digestion was a total 
wreck. Taking his cue from her pessimistic estimate 
of the integrity of her stomach, the physician pro- 
ceeded to feed her upon laxative medicines and com- 
paratively little else until she was practically a 
shadow. Another doctor was called who was an ar- 
dent believer in the theory that Satan supplies diver- 
sion for the idle stomach and he was able to exert 
sufficient influence to prevail on the patient to accept 
a liberal dietary. The result was a rapid and complete 
restoration to health, an unjust contempt for the first 
physician, who was really a capable man, and a posi- 
tive adoration for the other doctor, who had carefully 
explained the nature of the case to the patient and 
her family. 

Obstinate persistence in some cherished form of 
diversion with excessive exertion has caused the col- 
lapse of many apparently hale old people. Because a 
man always has been able to climb some mountain 
is no reason why the feat should be attempted again 
if there is any lowering of the state of vitality. It is 
very poor policy to force exercise in such cases beyond 
the limits of relative comfort. Some of the best hy- 
gienic habits are unwholesome at times. A very cele- 
brated actress in advanced years could not bear to 
forego her customary cold bath even when suffering 



244 Optimistic Medicine. 

from a severe bronchial cold. Her obituary appeared 
in less than a week. 

Considerable professional tact is, however, re- 
quired in issuing warnings against these pet hygienic 
hobbies. There is probably no greater opportunity 
for diplomacy in the practice of medicine than in the 
case of the young physician with the elderly patient. 
It is absolutely essential that there be nothing in the 
professional attitude or in the suggestions offered that 
would imply the slightest doubt that the patient's 
longevity prospects were regarded optimistically by 
the physician. The patient loses all confidence in 
the physician as soon as a contrary impression is 
acquired. 

The physician who has been in practice a long time 
and who finally retires or passes on to another sphere 
of existence is often sincerely mourned by his patients 
of all ages, but with the greatest sincerity by those 
advanced in years. The elderly physician naturally 
has a personal feeling of a common interest with a 
patient whom he has known in season and out of sea- 
son for a considerable period of years. To have to 
go to some younger doctor who may be much more 
interested in other phases of his professional work is 
often a sad experience undertaken with reluctance, 
and which can only be brought to a happy termination 
by proper appreciation of the psychological factors in 
the case by the new counsellor. 

It is said that the physician who has the obstetrical 
practice acquires the greatest influence over his fam- 
ilies. This is undoubtedly true in the main, but happy 



Retaining Efficiency Late in Life. 245 

the outlook for the recently established young prac- 
titioner who makes a hit with old people. 

The young physician who has the approval of the 
substantial business men in the full maturity of their 
intellectual faculties is sure to be, in a large sense, the 
gainer. 

Age may wither and custom may stale the infinite 
variety of both men and women, but the process is 
long deferred if the mental faculties remain in that 
state of vigor which is only possible when usefully 
engaged. The great mistake made by so many people 
of comfortable financial circumstances is that they not 
only lay aside their physical labors, but their mental 
activities as well. There ought to be a post-graduate 
course established in the public schools for the benefit 
of grandparents. Such a course should teach them 
that too much mental and physical relaxation inevi- 
tably means decay. Moderation is the keynote of any 
healthful system of relinquishment of the problems of 
existence. 

It is, of course, necessary that there be a slackening 
up of physical exertion and nerve strain as age in- 
creases. But it is wholly undesirable that the mental 
faculties be permitted to stagnate. 

Regular employment of the brain under normal 
conditions is exercise, often of an exhausting type. 
Therefore the person who is using the brain actively 
does not require so much physical exercise and may 
need a fairly liberal food ration to keep in a state of 
equilibrium. It is obvious, however, that when the 
person who has been working industriously with both 



246 Optimistic Medicine. 

body and mind for many years suddenly concludes to 
give up both forms of exercise and "retires," it is a 
shock to his physical organization. People are often 
deceived by the benefits they secure from a brief vaca- 
tion at some point of interest where they are actively 
employed in sight-seeing or social diversion for a few 
days and naturally resuming their regular life with 
every indication of benefit. They ignore the fact that 
the diversion which has accompanied their period of 
comparative idleness kept their minds occupied in a 
very beneficial way. Let those same people give up 
their regular employment and settle down for a life 
of mental and physical ease, and they soon approach 
a condition where the strain on some important item 
of their physical machinery is greatly intensified. 
Persistence in this mode of life almost inevitably 
means decay, unless the food ration is cut down to 
the basis of mere subsistence. 

It has always been noted that women leading a 
life of retirement seem to hold out a great deal better 
than men. The reason is obvious. Almost any 
woman who is inclined to be industrious can find some 
form of occupation that will take up her attention, and 
provide not only amusement, but mental and physical 
exercise. The retired farmer or mechanic, on the 
other hand, who has nothing to do is soon in the 
position of the favorite driving horse suddenly with- 
drawn from the active list, and he gets stale at an 
alarming rate. 

The moral of these reflections, therefore, is that if 
there is a lessening of physical exercise there must be 



Retaining Efficiency Late in Life. 247 

a corresponding increase of mental exercise in order 
to preserve the proper balance. Physicians can ac- 
complish much good for their communities by making 
these physical factors better known. 

But the greatest professional benefit which any 
family physician can confer upon these real old people 
is to maintain in their mind, so far as possible, a gen- 
eral feeling of optimism. It is but natural that a per- 
son of seventy-five who has seen numerous elderly 
acquaintances snatched away by attacks of pneumonia 
should become alarmed if afflicted with a bad bron- 
chial cold. 

The attitude of the physician may easily deter- 
mine the outcome of such a condition. If he is 
able to assure the patient that only a reasonable 
amount of care is required to accomplish complete 
recovery, then the courage of the patient will often 
do the rest. Unfortunately, many young doctors of 
relatively limited experience seem to be unduly im- 
pressed by the age of an elderly patient. They con- 
sider the case from the standpoint of vital statistics 
rather than from that of psychology. It is not the 
old people alone who die from discouragement. There 
are enough of a much younger age who succumb to 
the pessimistic belief that their case is hopeless. The 
price of pharmaceutical products has greatly ad- 
vanced within a few years, but every doctor carries 
within himself a remedy which, if he will use it, will 
often surpass anything that comes from the drug 
store, namely, the ability to establish hope and op- 
timistic confidence in the patient. 



248 Optimistic Medicine. 

It will be noted that those who have reached an 
advanced age are usually well endowed with the sense 
of humor. This helps greatly to smooth away the 
friction of everyday life. It is said that a man is as 
old as his arteries, but it might also be said that a 
man is still young if he possesses a keen appreciation 
of the almost innumerable instances of the incon- 
gruous. 

Exaggerated dignity may well be a liability rather 
than an asset if it repels those who take a humorous 
view of many everyday happenings. 

The possessor of a highly dignified demeanor has 
his place in the general scheme of things, but it is a 
lonely place. He has to contain great resources of 
self-amusement or he deteriorates rapidly after his 
active days are past. The contrast between these 
august personages and the jovial type of ancients is 
often remarkable. 

If every cloud has a silver lining, so do many 
annoying incidents reveal their funny sides. To be 
able to appreciate to the fullest extent these phases 
of untoward events is to get the most possible out of 
life. 

If old age must bring with it a reversion to second 
childhood, let it be with as much of childhood's light- 
heartedness as possible. Far better it is to be ca- 
pable of the interpretation of modern slang than to 
be ruminating day after day upon scenes of the distant 
past. The doctor who can impart a spirit of jollity 
to old age is more than a successful physician he is 
a philanthropist. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
MAINTAINING THE VITAL ORGANS. 

THE human organism, like any other organization 
with various functions to carry on, acts with a vary- 
ing efficiency which is dependent to a great degree 
upon the bodily morale. It is needless to say that this 
essential element which we have termed "morale" is 
dependent to a large extent upon the mind. Indeed, 
the mind is the balance wheel of the human body. 

Many so-called heathen tribes comprise numerous 
types of what would appear to be relative physical 
perfection. Nevertheless these splendid examples of 
apparent robust health are exceedingly short-lived 
because, in the common phrase, they do not know how 
to take care of themselves. They have no proper un- 
derstanding of cause and effect, and when they fall 
sick resort to various fantastic incantations and absurd 
devices which, if not followed by immediate improve- 
ment, leave the patient in a state of hopeless dejection 
from which he seldom rallies. 

It might seem impossible for similar tragedies to 
be enacted daily in every American city, but unfor- 
tunately for the vital statistics it is altogether too true. 
If disease kills its hundreds, panic and hopelessness 
kill their thousands, largely because of the dense 
Stygian darkness of ignorance of physiology, perhaps 
more frequently found in the mansion of the capitalist 
than in the farmhouse far back in the mountains. 

(249) 



250 Optimistic Medicine. 

So we can consistently speak of "morale" as the 
first essential of health, because morale is that all- 
desirable quality which leads to all real achievement. 
This attribute is based upon intelligence, or, in other 
words, education, which can be assimilated and 
utilized in a perfectly practical manner. It is prob- 
able that, if the hygienic impressions and delusions of 
many people of quite distinguished appearance were 
to be presented like a bundle of bank notes for ex- 
change into the real coin of practical intelligence, the 
percentage of discount would be equal to the present 
rate of exchange on the Russian rouble. 

It is, therefore, rational to conclude that with the 
degree of physiological intelligence possessed by 
average busy men or women they may be regarded as 
having been placed in charge of a complicated ma- 
chine of which in its inner working they have little 
accurate knowledge. It is accordingly most natural 
that they should be occasionally dropping a monkey 
wrench into the works, with results more or less wear- 
ing to the parts. And if the doctor, who is asked to 
readjust things and get them once more to running 
with as little jar as possible, will just look wise, say 
little, and leave the patient in the same dense igno- 
rance in which he was found, the chances are that 
after a short time the physician will see that patient 
joining the other dupes of the irregulars, who at least 
pretend to impart a little information. Fortunately 
for the general good, this type of physician is becom- 
ing more and more infrequent. It is to be noted that 
the general practitioner most sought after is the one 



Maintaining the Vital Organs. 251 

who aims to make his patients understand so far as 
practicable the purpose he has in view in his recom- 
mendations. 

The Bulgarians are said to be the longest lived 
people in the world. This is supposed to be due not 
only to their simple mode of life, but to the use of 
soured milk as a conspicuous feature of their daily 
food. Such a diet combined with a regular outdoor 
life leaves little of the complex in their hygienic prob- 
lem. However, civilized modes of living may be said 
to stretch all the way from Bulgarian simplicity to 
that of the pampered favorites of fortune in the gor- 
geously appointed family hotels. And as people be- 
come more proficient in the technical processes of our 
modern civilization, their need of medical supervision 
increases. 

The habitant of the remote fringes of organized 
society may have little real contact with a graduate 
physician during a long lifetime, and relying upon 
simple home remedies and certain canny common 
sense in their application may seem to be able to dis- 
pense with real medical advice and suffer little incon- 
venience. But the more complicated the mode of liv- 
ing, the greater the variety of medical problems de- 
veloped and the more the supervision of the high- 
grade physician becomes essential. If the patriarch 
on the mountain farm lives to be ninety, and his ambi- 
tious son, who establishes a prosperous business in the 
large city, only reaches the age of seventy, and the 
grandson who inherits the business dies of heart fail- 
ure or pneumonia or diseased kidneys at fifty, what is 



252 Optimistic Medicine. 

to be inferred as the cause of such physical decay in a 
robust family type ? The conventional answer is that 
city life leads inevitably to racial deterioration. 

There is probably nothing that reflects less credit 
upon this generation from the medical standpoint 
than this tradition. 

At a time when plagues that have existed in 
greater or less degrees of severity for centuries are 
being wiped off the face of the earth, and when the 
science of nutrition can estimate the number of food 
units in every edible substance, the mortality among 
middle-aged people, even with the most sanitary sur- 
roundings, shows a distinct advance. It is evident 
that there is a serious gap in the science of self-pres- 
ervation. Otherwise it would not be a fact that the 
more people have available to provide them with food, 
shelter, and wholesome enjoyment, the shorter their 
period of realization. 

Now, while it is true that modern life is stren- 
uous and many useful people break up at a compara- 
tively early age, it does not seem reasonable that 
such disregard of the laws of nature should be with 
deliberate intent. The business man of sound judg- 
ment in personal and public affairs is not throwing 
his life away wilfully. He goes to pieces because, in 
matters of health and self-preservation, he is even 
more ignorant of how to solve his personal problem 
than the illiterate Bulgarian peasant. 

Some most commendable measures have been in- 
stituted with the object of lessening this appalling 
waste of the lives of the most useful citizens, but it is 



Maintaining the Vital Organs. 253 

doubtful if they have accomplished much. In fact, 
this question would seem to the average citizen to be 
a trail leading directly to the office door of the family 
doctor. 

The problem briefly stated is this : the more com- 
plicated the business and social life, the greater the 
necessity that the individual leading such an intricate 
existence should understand how to so live as to avoid 
putting undue strain upon his nerves, circulatory or- 
gans, digestion or excretory system. The only per- 
son who would, to the trained business man, seem to 
be competent to solve this problem as a personal one is 
the practical, experienced physician. 

So, unless the medical profession as a body under- 
takes to supply this important information in a prac- 
tical way, a very considerable number of useful lives 
must continue to be cut short by; ten or fifteen years, 
with all the coincident family bereavement and dis- 
turbance to business and social life. Every doctor can 
recall a man here and 1 a woman there who seemed to 
possess an unusually practical knowledge of the ways 
to avoid errors of hygiene and also avoid the un- 
pleasant habit of morbid introspection. There is not 
much professional glory in attending a patient during 
the last illness, but there is a great deal of satisfaction 
in carrying some cheerful patient up into the eighties 
or nineties. So the question naturally crystallizes in- 
to how to impart the secret possessed by the few to a 
considerable number of others. 

This is the doctor's problem; no others can 
qualify. 



254 Optimistic Medicine. 

What is it that the wise ones know that carries 
them along year after year to a ripe old age of which 
the others are ignorant with such sad results? It is 
often not what could be regarded as any profound 
medical knowledge, but rather a sort of practical 
ability to estimate cause and effect at their real signif- 
icance. These people know when they are overwork- 
ing or underworking. They plan so they can lay aside 
the burdens for a time when they detect in them- 
selves the plain indications of strain. They know how 
to marshal their creative forces so as to operate them 
smoothly, and thus avoid nerve strain. They know 
how to select foods that will supply the requisite nu- 
trition without overtaxing the powers of digestion. 
They avoid the extremes of exposure to cold and of 
keeping too warm. They do not systematically seek 
to restore one set of nerves by, under the guise of 
recreation, overtaxing another set. In a word, they 
understand the importance of moderation. 

Analysis of the temperamental characteristics of 
the octogenarian will usually reveal a naturally 
friendly disposition which cherishes no ill will toward 
acquaintances who may be less amiably disposed. The 
habit of throwing the mantle of charity over the short- 
comings of others and at the same time fully appre- 
ciating their good qualities is undoubtedly a life 
lengthener of first rank. To maintain a feeling of 
resentment week after week is to experience far 
greater ill results for one's self than can possibly ac- 
crue to the object of the ill feeling. The scriptural 
injunction not to let the sun go down on one's wrath 



Maintaining the Vital Organs. 255 

has great moral value, but its hygienic significance is 
equally important and generally overlooked. Every 
bodily organ suffers from an attack of wrath, and 
even "righteous indignation" is too costly a luxury 
for frequent indulgence. 

If the patient of irascible temperament were to be 
advised by his family doctor to take a saline cathartic 
immediately following each attack of wrath, to be 
followed by a very simple diet for at least twenty- 
four hours, it is probable that the effects would be 
very beneficial, both physically and morally. A man 
of robust physique who had become prosperous and 
who, with agreeable family relations, found much 
leisure time for rational recreation, had one very un- 
fortunate habit. He was given, on apparently in- 
sufficient cause, to pass into a state of rage which 
would so prostrate him that he would be compelled to 
go to bed. It is hardly surprising that he should have 
died at a comparatively early age. 

While the person of average amiability undoubt- 
edly suffers severely from the occasional lapse into 
extreme ill temper, there are certain types who seem 
to be able to carry ill temper for a great many years. 
These generally are of the class who take pride in 
being "plain spoken." Ill nature may, therefore, be- 
come a sort of cult, in which case it would seem that 
antibodies had been developed to counteract the toxins 
which normally result from the surly mental attitude. 
In a certain rural community a woman was referred 
to as being of a very uncertain temper. "I don't know 
about that," said a local philosopher present. "I think 



256 Optimistic Medicine. 

she is the evenest tempered woman I ever saw ; mad 
all the time." 

There are occasional people of a naturally un- 
social, though amiable, type who seem to be immune 
to the ravages of time. They contrive ways of sup- 
plying to themselves in a limited sphere sufficient 
mental and physical exercise to preserve functional 
equilibrium. They live a life apart from the world 
even when they are wage earners. Sometimes they 
possess some small inherited means which by careful 
economy is sufficient for their wants. Although such 
people seldom seek medical advice, they are well 
worth analytical study by the physician, as they seem 
to demonstrate the normal tendency for the human 
machine to function smoothly for a long time when 
excessive strain is avoided. 

An example of this variety of the human species 
was noted in an old man who lived almost entirely to 
himself in a couple of rooms. He had an income suffi- 
cient for his wants, which were small. He occupied 
his time partly by ingenious contrivances for his per- 
sonal housekeeping. He could prepare his breakfast 
while lying in bed. By a system of wires he could 
light the fire in his small cooking range, set the coffee 
boiling, submerge the eggs for the necessary time in 
hot water, etc., etc. Although in every sense a recluse 
and a social nonentity, he lived to enjoy a good old age, 
apparently because he had not only succeeded in re- 
ducing mental and physical strain to the minimum, but 
also had satisfactory resources within himself for 
amusement. 



Maintaining the Vital Organs. 257 

Starting from this example of the symmetrical de- 
velopment of longevity in its simplest equation, we see 
the same process carried out in various ways in the 
lives of citizens of the highest usefulness. It is a 
problem of supplying nutrition in quantities sufficient 
to produce the extra energy required for whatever 
mental and physical tasks are carried on without over- 
taxing the nerves, heart, digestive and renal system. 
A few people seem to understand this problem by in- 
tuition, but most busy men and women need the prac- 
tical instruction which only the capable physician can 
impart. It is a sad fact, as we have repeatedly stated, 
that, because of the reluctance of many doctors to seem 
unduly inquisitive and a corresponding reluctance of 
average busy men and women to appear "fussy" about 
themselves, this necessary instruction is often not 
given in time. Too frequently it is the old story of 
providing the lock for the stable door after the horse 
is stolen. 

In the fields of nervous and mental disease much is 
said by medical men as to the borderland cases. It 
can be stated without exaggeration that this expres- 
sive term applies with equal logic to numerous other 
impending, but not fully determined, organic diseases. 
Most reasonably intelligent citizens are keenly alive 
to the serious possibilities of a neurotic patient who is 
on the verge of becoming actually unbalanced men- 
tally. But they fail to recognize other conditions of 
equally sinister significance. 

As an example of this unfortunate and inconsist- 
ent obtuseness, we see entire family groups in a high 

17 



258 Optimistic Medicine. 

state of anxiety over some semihysterical woman 
whose probable expectation of life should be estimated 
by conservative physicians as anywhere from twenty 
to sixty years, while the quiet, pale, anemic sister of 
high nerve tension, but carrying an air of forced 
cheerfulness, passes unnoticed. Careful medical in- 
spection of the latter case would often reveal a condi- 
tion requiring immediate professional attention to 
ward off, as a most natural development, a fully out- 
lined case of tuberculosis. The establishment of even 
a greatly modified form of the forced feeding which 
may be regarded as routine treatment for real tuber- 
culosis might not only rapidly build up such a suspect, 
but educate the patient, with lifelong benefits. 

Of even greater frequency are the unsuspected 
borderland cases of cardio-renal significance. In 
many instances there is little doubt that a period of 
rest and carefully regulated diet would relieve the 
strain and thus permit restoration of normal func- 
tional capacity. Unfortunately, cases of this kind are 
usually of the type which works hard and eats gen- 
erously, developing a sort of feverish zest for business 
which, in later life, is apt to be in itself a pathological 
indication. It is the strenuous life experienced by the 
heart and kidneys, a tensity which admits of practi- 
cally no vacations, which finally leads to their un- 
doing. The capable man of business who admits the 
importance of liberal allowances of time for the rec- 
reations of his employees, often shows no mercy to 
these long-suffering organs. Even in the hours of 
slumber they are kept struggling with the tasks im- 



Maintaining the Vital Organs. 259 

posed in the form of big dinners and heavy smokes 
following a tense day of business. It is not reason- 
able to believe that people of sound judgment would 
thus overtax themselves if they had any coherent 
understanding of the consequences. 

The average man and woman knows of a certain 
working organization which is designated as a "sys- 
tem." A heavy cold through the "system" entails 
discomfort. Just how it affects the individual work- 
ing parts is often as obscure to a bank president as 
"engine trouble" usually is to the automobile pas- 
senger in the back seat. One of the surest paths to 
success in general practice is for the physician to ex- 
plain the workings of the wonderful human engine so 
the patient may comprehend the individual, as well 
as collective, functions of the various parts, which, 
although standardized, are unfortunately not replace- 
able. Great benefit would undoubtedly accrue from a 
better general understanding of methods by which 
strain upon the organs of digestion, the heart and 
kidneys could be materially lessened at frequent in- 
tervals. Such periods of comparative organic rest 
would restore normal balance on many occasions 
when, if the truth were known, they were in a dan- 
gerous condition of superfunction. Few average citi- 
zens realize that such intensity of function may nat- 
urally produce gastric disease or enlargement of the 
heart and Bright' s disease. They go blindly on un- 
der the delusion that a keen appetite for steaks and 
chops and the comfortable or even uncomfortable re- 
sulting sense of repletion is an evidence of superior 



260 Optimistic Medicine. 

vitality and health. Such are the strange contradic- 
tions of human nature that the nervous patient with a 
blood pressure less by fifty points will haunt the doc- 
tor's office, while the man whose digestion is his pride 
and joy feels abundantly competent to be his own 
physician. 

An example of this form of superb self-confidence 
was exhibited in the instance of the proprietor of a 
prosperous drug store. Smiling, bland, and rotund, 
with a ruddy complexion, this man was always on 
duty at his store. His appetite never failing, it was 
his custom to carry home a thick steak and broil it 
himself for a midnight supper after his family were 
in bed. This unhygienic practice was abruptly ter- 
minated when he was about fifty by a profuse gastric 
hemorrhage. Gastric ulcer soon performed its perfect 
work. A timely word of caution by some one of the 
physicians who knew him intimately might have 
changed the history of this case. 

It could hardly be expected that the average per- 
son of even respectable general information can be 
made to comprehend in a short conversation the in- 
tricate technic of the various activities of the human 
organism. But it should be possible to make it plain 
that excessive function, of the heart for example, is 
pretty sure to shorten the career of the seventy-year 
clock. Viewed as a digestive problem, the lavish eater 
may scoff at the necessity of moderation, while the 
person who is always suspicious of the good intentions 
of his stomach will continue his policy of under-nour- 
ishment. But regarding; himself as a machine to be 



Maintaining the Vital Organs. 261 

kept running with proper efficiency and with the least 
possible friction, the problem becomes more concrete. 

It is probable that most people of average expe- 
rience have a more clearly defined idea of the respira- 
tory function than of nutrition and circulation, al- 
though the terrible mortality from pneumonia among 
certain types mght well indicate the contrary. Much 
depends upon the hygienic customs of different fami- 
lies. There are households where nearly every inmate 
beyond early childhood has either recovered from 
cases of bronchopneumonia or has narrowly averted 
passing through this ordeal. In such instances it is 
fair to presume that the ruling members of the house- 
hold are quick to perceive the significance of the 
menacing symptoms and lose no time in either calling 
in the physician or in instituting prompt measures 
themselves, frequently both. Where families possess 
this canny knowledge the deadly fear of pneumonia 
becomes transformed into a watchful wariness when 
suspicious indications appear. 

Contrasted with these are many unfortunate in- 
stances of apparent total failure to comprehend the 
significance of conditions which soon develop into 
serious types of this dreaded disease. 

It would be well for people in general if they 
could realize a little more clearly the tendency of na- 
ture to commit serious blunders under certain con- 
ditions. If there is a fractured limb in a person of 
tolerable health, nature hastens to rectify the matter 
as soon as possible. But unless a competent surgeon 
supervises the beginning of this process, nature is 



262 Optimistic Medicine. 

liable to make a very bad botch of the affair. In a 
similar way nature seems to hinder rather than help 
in certain affections of the pleural regions. Under 
such conditions it is often desirable to stay the hand 
of nature by the employment of the hot pack, de- 
signed, of course, to relieve this well intentioned, but 
undesirable congestion. Nature's policy in such cases 
seems to resemble that of the mob in the case of a bad 
accident. It shuts off the air supply by rushing an 
unusual volume of blood into the affected region, 
which interferes with the mechanical processes of 
respiration, thus constantly increasing the local irri- 
tation, with consequent distress and danger to the 
patient. 

It is, therefore, altogether desirable that physi- 
cians, so far as possible, instruct their patients as to 
the mechanical action of the regions of respiration, as 
by such comprehensions the average family will 
recognize the necessity of promptly utilizing such 
simple measures of relief as may be available before 
the doctor comes on the scene. The possibilities as- 
sociated with the wet pack, hot or cold as conditions 
and localities may indicate, should be recognized and 
appreciated by every family. However much the 
physician may be in doubt as to the "little knowledge" 
and its dangers there can be no disadvantage in ex- 
plaining the processes of physiology and the employ- 
ment of heat and cold as simple therapeutic agents. 

While the heart and lungs must continue busily 
at work at all times, their labors are often much aug- 
mented by heavy tasks imposed upon the organs of 



Maintaining the Vital Organs. 263 

digestion and excretion. The heavy strain thus pro- 
duced upon the mechanism in general is very wearing, 
as before suggested. It is often a blessing in disguise 
when a nervous breakdown occurs instead of some- 
thing more serious. 

How much more practical it v/ould be to devise 
some formulae that would ensure a slowing down of 
digestive and renal activities occasionally, thus per- 
mitting a general resting up of kidneys and heart! 
This can, perhaps, be best accomplished in the warm 
months by the use of simple, nutritious foods so cal- 
culated as to maintain nutrition with the minimum 
digestive effort, incidentally providing a vigorous, but 
not immoderate, system of exercise that will cause 
copious perspiration. Under such conditions the kid- 
neys at least may be considered as taking a com- 
parative vacation, which, if they have been subjected 
to rigorous tasks right along, will naturally tend to 
restore them to a normal standard of efficiency. 

This clearly explains the sense of elasticity expe- 
rienced by the tired business man who takes a rational 
vacation. If he can develop a keen appetite for simple 
and wholesome foods by vigorous, but not immoder- 
ate, exercise, and can incidentally perspire freely, he 
experiences a remarkable sense of rejuvenation. He 
feels like a new man. He attributes this to the 
unusual opportunity for vigorous muscular exercise, 
whereas it is the temporary relief from labor of the 
digestive and renal systems which is chiefly respon- 
sible for his unusual sense of well-being. To be sure, 
it is extremely gratifying to unused muscles to be 



264 Optimistic Medicine. 

brought into action under favorable conditions, but 
the vacation or outing that is accompanied by the 
feeling that the chief burdens of life have been laid 
aside is undoubtedly, when reduced to its origin, an 
expression of gratitude from the almost invariably 
overworked kidneys. 

This phenomenon, if such we may term it, is in- 
versely brought to the consciousness of physically in- 
active people when a considerable period of warm 
summer weather is followed by a cool spell. The ac- 
tive perspiration which may have persisted for some 
days or weeks is suddenly checked and the elimination 
which has been thus brought about is automatically 
transferred to the kidneys. These organs, which have 
been having it comparatively easy, are thereupon 
obliged to get down to hard work again, sometimes 
with all the evidence of considerable jarring of the 
machinery after this transformation has taken place. 

The damaging effects of pepper, mustard, essen- 
tial volatile oils, spices, etc., on the kidneys is not well 
known. Many cases of Bright's disease (inflamma- 
tion of the kidneys, albuminuria) are due to the use 
of these kidney irritants in large quantities. Numbers 
of men have died of kidney disease as a result of eat- 
ing their food made black with pepper, with too much 
salt in other food, and the use of mustard, spices, etc. 
These things should be used sparingly. Table salt is 
a necessity in food, and is needed in all food; but 
should not be used in too large a quantity. The pub- 
lic should be taught to avoid these excesses. Be 
temperate in all things. 



Maintaining the Vital Organs. 265 

That the Bible is the source of all wisdom is too 
commonly stated perhaps to justify repetition, but 
there can be no doubt that the notification that "By 
the sweat of thy brow thou shalt earn thy bread" is 
based upon the soundest hygienic principles. The 
luxury which permits those not versed in the laws of 
hygiene to indulge their preferences is seldom helpful 
to the vital statistics. It should be understood by all 
fully developed adults, as well as those of younger 
age, that reasonably profuse perspiration, in the warm 
seasons at least, is absolutely; essential to health. 
Moreover, any rational system of exercise which can 
be devised during the colder months that will cause 
perspiration at comparatively frequent intervals is 
undoubtedly likely to retard the development of renal 
congestions, with their long train of morbid conse- 
quences. 

Of course, it does not follow that the production 
of perspiration is a remedy for all ills. The hot coun- 
tries, where this function of the skin is carried out ex- 
tensively, are far from being desirable places of resi- 
dence. The strain which is lifted from the kidneys 
seems to be transferred to a considerable extent to the 
liver, and, of all the major organs of the body, the 
liver is not least in its capacity for making trouble. 

The indoor worker whose appetite has flagged nat- 
urally expects to acquire a keener zest for appetizing 
foods if he takes abundant exercise in the open air. 
In the tropical countries, where such exercise is not 
expedient except for those native born, it is the cus- 
tom to resort to alcoholic stimulants in order to de- 



266 Optimistic Medicine. 

^ 

velop the appetite which seems so essential to main- 
taining the bodily strength. Under such conditions 
the strain seems to fall largely on the liver, and the 
strength and vitality will be materially lessened un- 
less there are occasional vacation trips to the cooler 
climates. These facts, so well recognized, lead to 
logical conclusions as to our proper mode of action in 
the temperate zone. While it is desirable that there be 
more or less abundant perspiration, such benefits 
should not be neutralized by habits prejudicial to the 
integrity of the liver. Active exercise, with profuse 
perspiration, does not justify a person in incidentally 
indulging in heavy meals through artificial stimula- 
tion of the appetite. To get the maximum benefit from 
such exercise the diet, although liberal, should be 
simple. Otherwise the tendency is to develop condi- 
tions parallel to those existing in the tropics, when 
every evening meal has a few cocktails as a prelude. 
The conclusions to be reached, therefore, are that the 
conditions most conducive to health and longevity 
through maintenance of bodily efficiency involve, as 
an essential factor, exercise of the perspiration func- 
tion of the skin at frequent intervals, with cool spong- 
ing as a safeguard against possibly increased suscep- 
tibility to chill. 

Unmeasured benefits would accrue to average in- 
telligent families if they could be made to appreciate 
the fact that the functions of the skin are no less im- 
portant than those of the organs of the heart and 
lungs. Unfortunately many quite well informed 
people seem to regard the skin merely as a necessary 



Maintaining the Vital Organs. 267 

covering to hide a lot of tissue which naturally would 
not be pleasing to look upon. Nearly all the real up- 
lift work that is being done for the education and edi- 
fication of the public regarding the functions of the 
skin is that contributed by the toilet soap manufac- 
turers. Unfortunately, people are disposed to regard 
the suggestions of these people as inspired chiefly by 
self-interest. The fact that soap and water have be- 
come recognized as the best possible sanitary agent in 
producing a healthful habitation has, no doubt, a 
parallel application in matters of personal hygiene. 

It seems, however, that some discretion and judg- 
ment is required in the application of soap and water. 
The ancient Greeks carried warm bathing to such an 
extent that it became a cult, and historians have right- 
fully or wrongfully attributed their decline to the en- 
ervating influences of their fondness for the bath. Too 
much warm bathing, like too much clothing, has a 
depressing influence upon the skin. Submerging the 
body in warm water in a close, warm bathroom has 
an entirely different hygienic influence than that pro- 
duced by the use of the cool or tepid sponge bath, 
followed by vigorous rubbing of the towel. Each has 
its place, but the latter method of cleanliness is far 
more conducive to bodily vigor and immunity. 

Just how essential soap is to these processes is 
rather uncertain. The North American Indian of the 
Revolutionary War era is reported to have been much 
given to cold bathing, naturally without soap, and 
probably became more immune to extreme cold in pro- 
portion to the amount of clothing worn than any other 



268 Optimistic Medicine. 

tribe in history. The robust farmer of the Balkan 
states is an example of vigor and longevity, and is said 
to have his undershirt carefully sewed on to him by 
his wife at the beginning of winter, where it stays 
until, by the approach of the warm spring season, it 
is no longer needed as a protection. Whereby we 
again reach the conclusion that, the more simple the 
mode of existence, the less dependent people are upon 
the "many inventions" that seem so essential to a 
highly developed civilization. 

The skin seems to be as much benefited by contact 
with pure air as are the organs of respiration. Hence 
the desirability of clothing which is porous. The 
thick, but loosely woven, sweater is a far healthier 
garment for those exercising in the open air of winter 
than the fur or sheepskin lined coats now so popular 
with both sexes. There is, perhaps, no better proof of 
this statement than the robust vigor and highly de- 
veloped bodily immunity of the boys of the navy, ex- 
posed, as they are, to the chill and penetration of the 
salt breezes of the winter season. Under such condi- 
tions the skin reaches a high standard of functional 
ability. 

The medical style of writing indicated by the Gos- 
pel of St. Luke has often been noted by commenta- 
tors, while physicians have frequently expressed their 
appreciation of the very evident knowledge of medical 
science indicated by the writings of Shakespeare. But 
perhaps there is no more impressive example of medi- 
cal allegory than that well-known humorous poem of 
the late Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, "The One Horse 



Maintaining the Vital Organs. 269 

Shay," which tells of a vehicle the component parts 
of which were of such exactly uniform durability 
that at the end of one hundred years they all collapsed 
at once. 

Theoretically at least, the wear and tear on the 
human frame should be so equally distributed that 
death should only occur from the general decline and 
exhaustion of extreme old age. Practically, such 
equal division of strain seems to be unattainable. But 
it does not seem unreasonable to think that, if people 
of fair intelligence could acquire a clearer under- 
standing of the functions of the various essential units 
of the physical machinery, they could detect the warn- 
ings and interpret their meaning in time to relieve 
the pressure at threatened points, and thus avoid some 
local disaster which will drag down the entire mechan- 
ical structure. 

And so with perhaps wearisome repetition an- 
other plea is made that it is the physician, and the 
physician only, who can properly enlighten the people 
walking with blinded eyes among the hygienic pitfalls 
which seem to be found even more frequently among 
the mansions of the wealthy than among the cottages 
of the industrious poor. 



CHAPTER XV. 
MENTAL TORTURE OF THE BODY. 

FROM the earliest days of comprehension the 
child's body is more or less dominated by apprehen- 
sion. This condition of mind may easily exert a most 
depressing influence upon nutrition and produce a 
nervous bias that will persist during the adult years. 
Wise parents, therefore, do all in their power to ban- 
ish fear from the child mind lest the unfortunate habit 
be formed. 

During the stages of highest mental and physical 
efficiency, from the age of twenty to fifty, these mor- 
bid mental propensities usually remain in the back- 
ground ; at least, in times of normal health. But when 
through illness or advancing years there arises a con- 
sciousness of physical depression, the troop of old 
familiar hobgoblins begin to emerge from their lurk- 
ing places, and are perhaps even more unwelcome than 
in the days of childhood. 

It is logical to excuse child terrors on the grounds 
of ignorance natural at such early ages ; but it is un- 
fortunately quite the common thing to ridicule the ap- 
prehensions of the adult patient. This is a commend- 
able practice only when it is possible to give a clear 
and valid reason why the patient's fears are without 
foundation. It is often noted that the introspective 
chronic invalid will persist in living along year after 
year, while the hale and naturally robust will suddenly 
(270) 



Mental Torture of the Body. 271 

seem to collapse and show a surprisingly slight resist- 
ance to disease. This often unexpected breakdown is 
usually attributed to some unsuspected drain upon the 
vital forces, or exhaustion from overwork, but it is 
likely that one important factor is overlooked. This 
demoralizing element is panic. 

That the exact diagnosis is helpful to both doctor 
and patient in the self-limited disease is doubtless 
true. And that the same holds good with the physi- 
cian is true in all cases when tact is exercised. But 
the physician who calmly informs some active and 
socially essential man or woman that the condition 
under investigation has been determined beyond doubt 
to be a fatal malady has usually thrown aside the best 
possible remedy which could have been employed for 
the patient, namely, hope. 

This holds good in particular when the patient has 
heretofore enjoyed practically unbroken health. 

When a man or woman has experienced numerous 
ups and downs in health and has rallied from various 
menacing conditions, the attitude toward an unfavor- 
able diagnosis is more philosophical. The patient has 
acquired a certain wholesome self-confidence in that 
vitality which has proved equal to previous emer- 
gencies, and is quite prone to secretly resolve to con- 
vince that doctor that he may be considerably mis- 
taken, after all. This is a very desirable state of mind 
for the patient to be in, unless it leads to a tendency 
to ignore the doctor's suggestions. But the patient 
who has always enjoyed good health is apt to be af- 
fected very differently, and, believing that if the doc- 



272 Optimistic Medicine. 



tor is right, there can be little hope, enters into a state 
of semi-nervous collapse which has more than once 
proved fatal to people who had very little that was 
really the matter with them. It is really astonishing 
the loss of morale which can be exhibited by a robust 
man under such circumstances. We have a fair illus- 
tration of this panicky condition in the comparison 
between even the average type of woman and the 
strongly built man in perfect health when there is oc- 
casion to interview a dentist. The woman will endure 
the pain without flinching, while the man will often 
procrastinate visiting the dentist until the last possible 
moment and exhibit little nerve or capacity for punish- 
ment when the visit can be delayed no longer. 

Hope is, beyond question, the best remedy for the 
organically sick patient. While it is true that in such 
conditions restoration to perfect health is unlikely, 
everything which builds up a patient's confidence is a 
therapeutic asset and everything which produces dis- 
couragement a liability. The physician of tact can 
easily find ways to maintain such a patient's courage 
if he will. Unfortunately there are doctors who be- 
lieve that unless the patient can be thoroughly fright- 
ened, there will be a tendency to underestimate the 
importance of the treatment recommended. But, as 
without a reasonable degree of hope all other meas- 
ures for relief are often unavailing, the doctor as- 
sumes a very considerable responsibility in telling an 
active man of business who has hardly ever had a 
sick day, that he has Bright's disease of the kidneys, 
as there are other ways by which patients can be ad- 



Mental Torture of the Body. 273 

vised of their condition that will be less likely to 
break down the morale. 

A physician reported to a medical journal an in- 
stance of a long protracted search he had made for 
the evidence of tuberculosis in a certain case under 
consideration. The patient was in a somewhat run- 
down condition, with more or less bronchial irrita- 
tion, and the physician kept up a continuous system of 
examination of sputum for weeks and months. It 
appeared from his review of the case that he became 
early convinced that it was a case of tuberculosis, and 
he tells proudly of the time when, after many repeated 
failures, he actually succeeded in detecting the germ 
in the sputum submitted. The report of the case 
would indicate that the doctor had as much gratifica- 
tion over the fact that he had located the evidence that 
his diagnosis was correct as would an inventor who 
had at last discovered some secret of far-reaching im- 
portance in the laboratory. It is easy to conjecture 
the psychological influence upon the patient of these 
continuous attempts to secure the actual evidence. 
There are fortunately a large number of physicians 
who would gladly have given up the search, after a 
few failures, and encouraged the patient accordingly. 
Only a willingness to eliminate all hope of recovery 
as a factor in the case could apparently justify a doc- 
tor in thus continuously harrowing up his patient in 
order that he might finally exult over the vindication 
of his diagnosis. 

The first essential in average medical treatment is 
to keep the patient optimistic. All else is secondary. 

18 



274 Optimistic Medicine. 

An example of what this means was shown in a cer- 
tain army base hospital during the influenza epidemic. 
The mortality had been high and a dread of going to 
the hospital had developed throughout the entire 
camp. Boys who had to be sent to the hospital were 
greatly depressed. In their own expressive phrase 
they were "out of luck." A solitary woman nurse 
appealed to the commandant. She was in tears. She 
told him it broke her heart to see those boys dying 
there through lack of courage. Hospital orderlies, 
however faithful, were not sufficient ; she wanted some 
girl nurses and quickly. They were procured and 
supplied that one great essential heretofore not avail- 
able by requisition, courage. The change for the 
better was immediate and marvelous. 

One of the most adverse and even destructive in- 
fluences in taking over into a receivership the physical 
assets of an active business man is to break up his es- 
tablished routine. Even a healthy man with no sin- 
ister forebodings of approaching fatality experiences 
a shock when required to lay aside his regular mode 
of life. A complete cessation of routine tasks is as 
undesirable as that frenzy of over-attention to duty 
which is manifested by certain overwrought men and 
women who may be suffering from acute nerve ten- 
sion or the toxemia of incomplete function. When 
the physician makes some discovery that indicates or- 
ganic perversion, a little time devoted to explaining 
the normal physiology of a person of that age and the 
importance of maintaining as nearly perfect normality 
as possible provides an abundant excuse in the mind 



Mental Torture of the Body. 275 

of the patient for the general line of treatment marked 
out by the doctor. To be sure, the patient may have 
some misgivings that the condition is far from a 
strictly healthful one, but nothing has been said to take 
away the hope and incentive for faithfulness in carry- 
ing out the doctor's recommendations and with a view 
of bringing about the proper physical balance. In 
other words, all the impetus of the patient's hopeful- 
ness and courage is being utilized as a distinct asset. 

Of course, there are not many physicians who will 
bluntly and directly inform a patient that he is 
suffering from a fatal disease, and that his days 
are numbered. Leaving out a few so-called specialists, 
who pride themselves upon being oracles in their de- 
partment, such psychological methods are not the 
vogue. The results, however, frequently figure out to 
be about the same if, as commonly happens, the doc- 
tor takes the patient's family into his confidence and 
lays before them a very unfavorable outlook. When 
this is done the invalid is very liable to get a fairly 
accurate idea of what the doctor's opinion is, and the 
depressing influence is established. 

Much has been said of the absurdity of mind cure, 
and with abundant reason, but, after all, it is not en- 
tirely a delusion. The attitude of the physician should 
be encouraging on every possible occasion, and, in 
fact, he should not allow himself to cherish in his own 
mind anything but an optimistic view of every case 
so far as possible. 

It should not be forgotten that human nature is apt 
to revolt at the unfavorable diagnosis, and to ac- 



276 Optimistic Medicine. 

quire the impression that, if the physician has such a 
hopeless idea of the case, there is no use in contin- 
uing longer under his directions. It is under such 
conditions as these that the quack gets his innings. 
Whatever else may be lacking in his brain equipment, 
it is not optimism. Pie blandly assures the patient 
that he can bring about an immediate improvement, 
and in those instances where he does apparently ac- 
complish this result it is largely mental healing. 
Where there is some remaining foundation to build 
on he often wins, and if the victim should grow 
steadily worse, as often happens, the family have the 
consolation of knowing that the reliable and thor- 
oughly professional family doctor had already warned 
them as to the probable outcome of the case. 

It is not nearly as depressing to the middle-aged 
adult to hear that the kidneys are not quite right as it 
is to be told in the plainest language that there is a 
large constituent of albumin and that the blood pres- 
sure is 220 degrees. In the lay mind a person can 
have "kidney trouble" for a long time, whereas with 
a more definite graphic explanation the depressing 
influence is very marked. Likewise most people of 
observation have heard of numerous individuals who 
had "bad hearts," but who seem to get along with 
tolerable comfort year after year. It does not seem 
necessary that the patient with a badly enlarged heart 
should have his courage taken out of him entirely by 
absolutely frank diagnosis. 

Styles are continually changing in medical prac- 
tice, and whereas years ago many physicians, espe- 



Mental Torture of the Body. 277 

daily those who practiced in the country, would 
wheedle along their heart and kidney patients to live 
a long time and get considerable out of life, an era of 
realism has developed in recent years whereby a cer- 
tain type of doctors consider it their duty to lay aside 
these old-fashioned ideas of justifiable camouflage and 
place the exact facts before the patient; all of which 
might easily account, to a considerable extent, for the 
recently much increased mortality among people of 
middle age and over. 

It is true that some harm has been accomplished 
through reluctance of physicians to harrow up the 
feelings of their patients by revealing unpleasant 
facts as to the physical condition. But it does not 
necessarily follow that neurotic, depressed people who 
have been worrying about themselves for weeks and 
months should continue to be kept in a state of nerve 
tension on suspicion. According to the jurisprudence 
of most civilized countries, any man or woman is to 
be regarded innocent until proved guilty. In like 
manner, every optimistic suggestion which the in- 
genuity of the doctor can concoct should be dispensed 
freely with other tonics whenever a neurotic or de- 
pressed patient comes under observation. 

A physician in an eastern city established a far- 
reaching reputation as a successful practitioner. His 
clinical methods embraced three predominant factors. 
He prescribed laxatives freely and insisted upon a 
lavish diet for his patients. His third and most im- 
portant principle of cure was the administration of 
large doses of optimism on all occasions of contact. 



278 Optimistic Medicine. 

The patient who had become convinced that he was 
not long for this world would acquire an entirely dif- 
ferent idea after ten minutes at this doctor's office. 
When it was for his patient's interest he told them 
just exactly what was the matter with them if he 
knew, and gave them the benefit of the best possible 
guess, if he didn't know. They became partners in 
the enterprise of building up abounding health and 
vitality. The patients who had become discouraged 
while under the capable care of some other physi- 
cian would be advised to see the genial optimist, 
whereupon they would often make a quick recovery, 
preparations for which had perhaps been carefully 
made by the other doctor, and the optimist would get 
the credit. 

We are told in the Good Book that we should avoid 
the appearance of evil. There is nothing more repug- 
nant to the honorable, thoroughly competent physi- 
cian than the smug, bland self-assurance of the quack. 
The graduate of a high-grade medical school, who has 
also served a long and non-lucrative apprenticeship in 
a well-equipped hospital, is prone to ignore the hopes 
and fears of the ignorant. But such an attitude, how- 
ever commendable from the standpoint of ethics, fre- 
quently works to the disadvantage of both doctor and 
patient. 

The urbane quack thrives best when in competition 
with the serious minded regular practitioner who con- 
siders it unwise to go much into details with his 
clients. Hounded by their own fears and misgivings, 
patients will recklessly rush to the quack, because they 



Mental Torture of the Body. 279 

hear that he is a jovial kind of man whose patients 
immediately begin to get cheered up whether there is 
any reason for it or not. 

Again referring to the Anglo-Saxon code of juris- 
prudence, we find that every citizen is entitled to his 
"day in court." By similar reasoning it may be said 
that every patient should have the benefit of all reason- 
able doubts as to prospects of recovery. There are 
few clinical cases passing under review by the physi- 
cian which do not present certain hopeful elements. 
And the anxious patient, like the prisoner in the dock, 
is entitled to the benefit of all reasonable exceptions. 
An optimistic outline of the non-discouraging features 
of the case may greatly stimulate the patient's cour- 
age. An attitude of calm resignation may be emi- 
nently fitting to an undertaker, but is not appreciated 
in the family doctor. 

Happily there are not so many instances where 
contact with the family doctor is depressing to the 
patient. Most practitioners contrive to present a 
fairly cheerful exterior. But the doctor who can im- 
part some perfectly good reasons for encouragement 
to the patient himself can appear as gruff as he 
pleases and all will be forgiven. However, the prac- 
titioner who takes the time to clarify the case to the 
patient, who exults in every apparent element of im- 
provement, and who furnishes a logical and hopeful 
explanation for every setback has, irrespective of the 
outcome of the disease, acquired the gratitude and 
confidence of the patient, the patient's family, and all 
the family's remotest relatives. 



280 Optimistic Medicine. 

Enforced rest for recuperation is a remedy which 
must always be employed with due consideration for 
the mental influences which may incidentally result. 
The man or woman of middle age with a history of 
thirty or forty years of activity in congenial tasks 
must lay aside the accustomed routine in a spirit of 
cheerful acquiescence, or possible benefits are likely to 
be more than counterbalanced by depression. The 
most perfect machine requires a certain amount of 
"breaking in" before it will operate smoothly. The 
tasks which seem so monotonous to young people 
are apt to become the very breath of life after a 
period of years. It is accordingly a mental and 
physical shock when the person with evidence of or- 
ganic deficiency is required to lay aside the usual 
occupations. 

Idleness or travel for recreation, with the cheerful 
realization of a well-earned holiday, may be produc- 
tive of much benefit if there is a prospect of again 
taking up the beloved tasks a little later. But travel 
for health purposes is a hollow mockery if associated 
with the idea that one's work is done. 

Nothing is so cheering to a person under the 
handicap of a pessimistic diagnosis as the conscious- 
ness of yet being able to produce something for the 
common good. A patient under such circumstances 
intuitively seeks to take a hopeful view. "There is 
life in the old dog yet." 

The optimistic physician has a sugar coating for 
every unfavorable condition. He tells the patient with 
a bad heart or suspiciously acting kidneys that nearly 






Mental Torture of the Body. 281 

everybody of that age has something or other the 
matter with him. If it were not one thing it would be 
another, because there is always a weak spot some- 
where. He explains how to take the strain, so far as 
possible, off the affected part, and how to preserve 
equilibrium by letting the other parts of the machine 
do the work. Work! The very name carries magic 
with it to the man or woman with a useful life behind 
him. Nothing is more stimulating to his courage and 
fidelity to the doctor and his recommendations than 
permission to work. 

Just contrast with this the case of the middle- 
aged patient when the family physician advises con- 
sultation at the office of a certain type of specialist. 
The specialist has never seen or heard of the patient 
before, and probably never expects to see or hear of 
him again. Whatever else he may lack, it is not 
frankness. He calls a spade a spade, and it is safe to 
say that in a large number of instances the family 
doctor can never quite get the patient back to where 
he was before this ill-fated visit. 

Of course, there is a certain excuse for the realis- 
tic methods of the specialist. He must maintain his 
reputation as a correct diagnostician. Fortunately, 
the family doctor who knows his families and their 
characteristics is .under no such obligation. He can 
indulge in cheerful generalities, and by sustaining 
the courage of the patient will often be greatly sur- 
prised by the capacity manifested by such people to 
rally, for a considerable period, from depressing con- 
ditions, to accomplish much that is of benefit to them- 



282 Optimistic Medicine. 

selves and their families, and with the personal grati- 
fication which always accompanies such ability. 

Reticence on the part of the patient is undesirable. 
It is for the interest of the patient that he relieve his 
mind of all anxieties and doubts. It is for the in- 
terest of the physician that he have both a physical 
and mental blue print of the case. Some garrulous 
patients, to be sure, seem to forget that the doctor 
could have anything else to do but listen to symp- 
toms. One interview, however, will usually give 
the physician the cue, and he can thereafter confine 
the exhibit to the essentials. The patient who leaves 
the doctor's office thoroughly reassured has received 
a handsome equivalent for the fee, whatever it is. 

It is probable that even the most communicative 
patient seldom unfolds more than a small part of the 
worries which harass most of the waking moments of 
certain neurotic types. A woman with a sick husband 
can, under the burden of anxiety, easily project before 
her mental vision the death of her husband, the fu- 
neral, and her own struggles to maintain and educate 
her children, and all in the space of a very few min- 
utes. Under the depressing influence of fear the 
domestic animals, whose capacity for thinking under 
the most favorable estimate is but rudimentary, do 
not thrive. Man, while responsive to the glad emo- 
tions, with all their exhilarating influences, is con- 
versely subject, in intensified form, to the same de- 
pression of fear and morbid apprehension which any 
stock breeder will exorcise from his herds so far as 
possible. 



Mental Torture of the Body. 283 

The mental emotions constitute a keyboard which, 
under the stress of overexertion or toxic disorder, 
may become badly out of tune. The physician of ex- 
perience manipulates the keys through mental sug- 
gestion, carefully eliminating any underlying basis for 
discord. He looks carefully for the evidence of apa- 
thetic depression, on the one hand, and the nervous 
exhilaration of hypertension, on the other. Too little 
occupation is as undesirable as too much. It is un- 
fortunate that more people do not understand and 
appreciate the psychological benefit they receive from 
their doctors. They are very apt to give all the credit 
to the prescription they receive. But, as before sug- 
gested, many doctors have themselves to thank for 
this ungracious attitude on the part of their patients. 

In Hawthorne's masterpiece we read of the toxic 
influence upon Hester Prynne's nursing child as a 
result of her mental emotions when standing in the 
pillory exposed to the gaze and comments of the mob. 
Only a most rudimentary knowledge of physiology is 
sufficient to make the reason clear. Of course, not 
many crises arise where the mental emotions may 
reach such an intensity; but it is accepted without 
question that even the most ignorant adult with a 
cheerful nature has a better chance of living to a good 
old age than people of the opposite type. 

So it seems that in these days of enlightenment not 
only should the average person be taught to under- 
stand the far-reaching importance of a cheerful men- 
tal attitude, but he should also comprehend the bene- 
fits which may result to him from a visit to the family 



284 Optimistic Medicine. 

doctor even if he has no array of ordinary "symp- 
toms" to place on inspection before the doctor. A 
depressed mental state is as much benefited by con- 
tact with a thoroughly competent physician as a case 
of lumbago. 

It is interesting to conjecture what might happen 
to a large number of parasites upon the healing art if 
the thoroughly competent, high-grade family physi- 
cians would acquire the habit of considering every 
case which comes under their observation the subject 
of a mental diagnosis as well as physical. It is prob- 
able that the ranks of the peddlers, barbers and mani- 
curists would be very considerably increased by those 
fakers who now profit by the habitual disinclination 
of competent physicians to take the mental kinks and 
pessimisms of their patients as really valuable diag- 
nostic material. To be sure, the disgust which many 
physicians have for the querulous, self-centered, 100 
per cent, selfish types who apparently "enjoy poor 
health" is most natural, and might be commendable 
were it not that these people, when treated with the 
scant consideration they may seem to deserve, exert 
a bad influence ; for every one has an influence. 

Fresh air and suitable foods are important aids to 
the physician in practically every case. But the mel- 
ancholic temperament can easily render them of little 
avail. An examination of the blood may reveal much 
that throws light upon an obscure problem, but no 
microscope as yet can detect the hidden poison pro- 
duced by hate, envy, or the consciousness of a deadly 
wrong committed and not atoned for. 



Mental Torture of the Body. 285 

It would, perhaps, be rather unconventional for a 
dignified practitioner to tell his morose, self-centered 
patient that to develop a feeling of cordial friendli- 
ness and good will toward acquaintances was likely to 
help largely in accomplishing a cure; yet there are 
many instances where such a mental change would 
work an apparent miracle. 

Naturally these considerations apply with greatest 
force where no serious morbid changes have taken 
place. Even then any optimistic development of the 
mental attitude is helpful. But that the cheerful tem- 
perament is of great importance in imparting vigor 
and efficiency to the vital organs in the performance 
of their functions is so often demonstrated by certain 
exceedingly cheerful people who reach a hale and 
hearty old age that the prescribing of optimism as the 
chief preventive of the diseases of middle age would 
seem to be a professional duty as well as therapeutic 
policy. 

There can be little doubt that economic problems 
are largely responsible for much of the life-shortening 
gloom which descends upon many people of middle 
age. The financial outlook is not cheering, and de- 
pression becomes chronic. The trend toward the cities 
is, in a large measure, responsible. Fear of being un- 
employed holds .many potentially capable men in 
routine positions until natural adaptability to some- 
thing better has been lost. The country doctor can 
say to the worried housewife, "Why doesn't your hus- 
band look for a better job?" He can even go out of 
his way to recommend such a man to some employer 



286 Optimistic Medicine. 

in need of a reliable man. In the city the husband's 
identity may be actually submerged, and it is only 
when some kindly disposed person goes out of his 
way to actively intervene that the round peg is at 
last cosily established in the right niche. Such a pre- 
scription by the big-hearted family practitioner may 
produce record results in health and happiness. 

The comparative brevity of the span of life of many 
splendid physicians has been ascribed to excessive 
professional drudgery. But there can be no doubt 
that the inevitable depression caused by contact with 
the misfortunes of many luckless patrons is a produc- 
tive factor. 

It is evident that the interests of the doctor and 
his patients can be best served by more frequent in- 
tercourse, with the object of a greater amount of pro- 
fessional attention being devoted to prevention and a 
less degree of professional stress being devoted to 
cure. The family physician whose patients turn to 
him when they are "down on their luck/' and who get 
cheered up and instructed along the lines of conser- 
vation, is not wearing himself out with the anxieties 
and depressions which naturally are associated with 
treatment of a desperate case with economic disaster 
looming up in the background. The physician who 
realizes that a considerable number of families are 
keeping in that good health which results from in- 
telligent application of the laws of hygiene, and who 
has educated his patients to appreciate the importance 
of consulting their doctor whenever the condition of 
mind and body falls below standard, has prepared the 



Mental Torture of the Body. 287 

way for an old age of comfort and professional use- 
fulness, and especially that satisfaction which, comes 
from having ably performed his part in making the 
world a more comfortable and agreeable place to 
live in. 

While every adult man and woman has a certain 
conception of the various bodily processes, these ideas 
are as various as the individuals themselves. No 
doubt, teaching physiology in the public schools is a 
help ; but the picture thus presented to the child mind 
is painfully inadequate even as to normal function. 
As to the influences which pervert the action of the 
heart, kidneys, and liver, there is no idea whatever. 

Most people who succeed in avoiding the pitfalls 
and arrive at a healthy old age have little to thank for 
it but good luck. This is certainly not in accord with 
other branches of modern sciences. 

And yet it should not prove difficult to explain how 
hypertension affects adversely the heart and kidneys, 
which may always be taxed to their normal capacity, 
or how anxiety may depress the digestion and flood 
the system with toxins, thus also adding to the strain 
upon the kidneys. These are but a few of the sugges- 
tions which, passed along to a reasonably intelligent 
patient, will be received by the majority as a distinct 
revelation. Few patients thus enlightened will ever 
forget the lessons thus set forth, nor the doctor, either. 

The solution of this question lies with the doctor. 
It is for the interest of the doctor, although, of course, 
more in the interest of the public. The patient who 
secures a prescription may come again. The patient 



288 Optimistic Medicine. 

who secures useful instruction that will enable him 
to understand danger signals heretofore entirely ob- 
scure is sure to come again, for there are always new 
problems to engage the attention of the enlightened 
mind. 

Following such a policy, it happens, as a matter of 
course, that the physician has more and simple office 
problems and probably fewer and fewer night calls. 
And he is not likely to complain of such a develop- 
ment. Far better it is in advanced years to be known 
to the grandchildren of early patients as "the good, 
old doctor" than to have been cut down in the prime of 
life as the result of constant struggles to cure desper- 
ately ill patients who should have known better how 
not to be sick. 

Every man or woman, as soon as the days of en- 
lightenment arrive, must undertake to steer his course 
along the channel of natural development, maturity, 
and decay. The stream may appear placid and free 
from danger, but those who are not enlightened and 
who rely upon their own judgment are prone to 
trouble. They have no chart to steer by. The hidden 
rocks and quicksands are known to the doctor, and the 
only real safety lies in having him for a pilot. Just so 
long as people consider that good health is a matter 
of luck, they are ready to take their chances ; but when 
it dawns upon them that self-reliance in matters be- 
yond their comprehension bespeaks ignorance and 
fool-hardiness rather than good sense, they begin to 
look around for some one to guide them. With a 
few simple instructions and the clear-headedness 



Mental Torture of the Body. 289 

which comes from an optimistic temperament, they 
stand an excellent chance to reach the desired haven. 

Therefore, in view of the fact that it pays much 
better to hire a pilot than it does to incur the expense 
of salvaging a damaged boat, even if it does not go to 
pieces entirely, there is every reason to suppose that 
a great number of people who delay consultation with 
a physician until they are in a really bad way might, 
with a more clear understanding of the case, place 
their physical fortunes in the hands of a competent 
practitioner, consulting him frequently enough so that 
he could detect incipient dangers promptly, and thus 
save all unnecessary shocks. Such a policy, if gen- 
erally adopted, would greatly increase the average 
tenure of life, not only of patients, but physicians also. 
A sufficient number of physicians have already tested 
this plan and proved that it is workable. Let us hope 
that it may become of universal application. 



19 



CHAPTER XVI. 

GETTING BACK TO THAT WHICH is NATURAL. 

IT seems almost incredible at first thought that one 
person may be as old at forty as another at sixty-five, 
yet such is the fact. The reasons, while yet obscure 
enough, are becoming more and more tangible to 
students of physiology, and it is extremely important 
that enlightenment on this subject may become more 
general. 

The development of a normal nursing infant care- 
fully watched over by a healthy, competent mother is 
marvelous to behold. Such a child seems to be a per- 
fect incarnation of health. The changes from day to 
day are a constant revelation of the workings of a 
thoroughly co-ordinated machine. Just so long as the 
healthy mother can supply abundance of nourishment 
for such a child, the development persists rapidly and 
symmetrically. 

When the time arrives when other foods must be 
employed, there follows the introduction of the ele- 
ment of human judgment, always more or less faulty 
and capable of errors; hence the perils of the "second 
summer" and subsequent periods. Properly fed and 
cared for, however, the development of the child con- 
tinues in a satisfactory way, and the child becomes 
sturdy, thoroughly optimistic, and practically tireless, 
inasmuch as restoration from the incidental fatigues 
following child activity is accomplished by a good 
(290) 



Getting Natural 291 



night's rest. This situation, therefore, illustrates tKe 
human machine as it functions properly. 

It does not seem unreasonable to believe that, if it 
were possible for a person to pass through an entire 
lifetime under conditions as hygienically correct as 
during the period of childhood before mentioned, the 
number of centenarians would become so great as to 
cease to excite interest in the average community. 
Unfortunately, rugged health, with quick recovery 
from normal fatigue and often from comparatively 
frequent unhygienic practices, is apt to produce an 
undue sense of confidence which leads people to va- 
rious forms of excess on the unfounded calculation that 
they are so strong and vigorous as to make it un- 
necessary for them to exercise that prudence which 
people of more delicate physique find essential to 
physical comfort. In consequence of this fallacious 
feeling of self-elation, it follows that deaths occurring 
among those of middle age or even younger are quite 
commonly instances of this unusual early vigor and 
vitality misapplied, and that those of more delicate 
constitution who have from necessity found it essen- 
tial that they exercise better judgment are quite prone 
to find themselves in their later years in much better 
general health than their more vigorous associates of 
early life. 

It is true that the majority of adults find the all 
prevalent economic strain a prolific cause of that grad- 
ual change from perfect normal function to that which 
is more common and which provides such a large pro- 
portion of the clinical material with which physicians 



292 Optimistic Medicine. 

come in contact mostly during their professional 
careers. But it must be remembered that most of the 
persons who exhibit various disabilities by the time 
they are forty or forty-five have been acting without 
any adequate knowledge of hygiene. If they could 
but understand more fully just what perfect health 
is and how various personal deviations from normal 
hygiene may increase the wear and tear upon the or- 
gans of digestion and circulation in particular, they 
would find ways of modifying their habits of living 
with a view of relieving this strain so far as possible. 

The first essential of perfect health is, of course, 
nutrition. The human body requires about so many 
nutritive elements in order to maintain itself. Logic- 
ally the less strain upon the assimilative powers of 
the body which may be incident to taking up this 
amount of nutrition, the better the chances for per- 
fect health and longevity. 

The cost of living is a factor which at present 
enters very personally into the lives of most people. 
Fortunately, even under present conditions, most of 
the more expensive foods are not so actually neces- 
sary as many ill-informed people believe. Even at 
present high prices, milk is perhaps the cheapest food 
obtainable. And yet there are many families who 
stint themselves upon milk in order that they may 
spend much larger sums for other articles of food 
which impose a much greater tax upon the digestive 
faculties in proportion to the benefits received. 

People are prone to regard the selection of foods 
as merely a matter of preference; whereas if they 



Getting Natural. 293 



could but be made to appreciate the real facts, as could 
be easily set before them in a few minutes by a com- 
petent family physician, an entire family history might 
be changed. 

The first marked deviation from normal physi- 
ology in the individual who has passed through the 
first years of a perfectly normal and healthy childhood 
is usually developed as a result of the abnormal de- 
sire for food, which reaches its maximum at adoles- 
cence. Everything which is eatable is attractive at this 
period, and there is much that is eatable that is not 
wholesome. The rebounding vitality in this stage of 
development is such, however, that recovery usually 
follows such instances of over-indulgence. How- 
ever, if persisted in there gradually ensues a modifica- 
tion of the chemical action of the digestive fluids, with 
more or less toxic influences upon the entire system. 
When these toxic conditions are made manifest by 
discomfort in the gastric region it often serves as a 
warning to people of fair intelligence, who are thus 
enabled to trace cause and effect and to modify their 
mode of nutrition accordingly. Unfortunately there 
are many who do not seem to be able to connect cer- 
tain morbid conditions with the real underlying cause, 
and who therefore must pass the remainder of their 
lives under this great handicap. 

The human stomach seems to possess an almost in- 
credible ability to adapt itself to unfavorable condi- 
tions, at least in early adult maturity. In childhood, 
on the contrary, this noble and patient organ is more 
prone to rebel and reject its contents on justifiable oc- 



294 Optimistic Medicine. 

casions. But as years go on there is developed a 
stomach tolerance for many foods which are, never- 
theless, very unsuitable individually or incompatible 
in combination. People of fair intelligence are usu- 
ally able to comprehend the unsuitability of certain 
foods, which they, nevertheless, habitually indulge in 
merely because the resulting difficulties of digestion 
do not present an acute cataclysm. 

One of the chief reasons for this common use of 
certain foods unsuited to the individual is the dread 
of being regarded as eccentric. Conventionality is, 
in this, as in many other principles of life, a govern- 
ing influence. An eminent American once classified 
American citizens of the strictly conventional type as 
"white Chinese" and apparently with abundant rea- 
son. The parents who emphatically insist that their 
children of varying individualities shall "eat what is 
set before them" are, of course, carrying out this idea 
of strict conventional endorsement of the family menu 
whatever it may happen to be. 

Such is the influence of this idea of strict con- 
formity that most people fail to derive any special 
lessons from the occasional acute indigestions which 
are apt to come to nearly everyone from time to time. 
It would be natural that one might think seriously of 
the stomach upset which is corrected by castor oil and 
the subsequent diet for a day or so of milk toast or 
thin soup, in combination with some delicate form of 
crackers, and would begin to comprehend that a sys- 
tem of feeding which produces more or less discom- 
fort, even if it does not actually result in an explo- 



Getting Natural. 295 



sion, might naturally require some modification. Un- 
fortunately, so long as the ordinary state of health 
persists, people give little or no thought to any ques- 
tion of interior chemistry, and proceed stolidly along, 
exactly the same menu being provided for the robust 
outdoor worker as for the slender overwrought school 
teacher of the family, equal disregard being shown 
for the difference in ages of all those who are able to 
sit down at the family board. 

A gradual tolerance is built up in the digestive 
tract for all kinds of unsuitable and ill-combined foods. 
But, because there is no frequent explosion or acute in- 
digestions, it does not follow that the more or less 
abnormal chemical reactions in the digestive tract are 
not producing the results which may easily be ex- 
pected to follow if one stops to consider the foregoing 
facts. When the stomach contents are abnormally 
acid, it is inevitable that the intestinal tract be simi- 
larly affected and that the blood system will also be 
influenced. In other words, the bodily functions are 
all laboring under the handicap of unnatural interior 
fluids. It is not surprising that there is eventual pre- 
mature impairment of the functional integrity of the 
bodily organs. 

We are taught that one should not listen to the 
complaints of these various units lest the habit of in- 
trospection become established, in which case practi- 
cally every function of the body will seem to the owner 
thereof to be perverted. It is said that those who 
watcK their stomachs for symptoms will always have 
stomach trouble, and so on along the list. To be sure, 



296 Optimistic Medicine. 

morbid introspection is a very bad habit to acquire, 
but the chauffeur who carefully avoids listening to 
any complaints of the working parts of his automo- 
bile, lest these complaints should cause him annoy- 
ance, would not be regarded as a very safe driver. 
The better policy would seem to be to find out what is 
wrong and correct it if possible, and afterwards throw 
off dull care so far as these matters are concerned. 

Most people have experienced the sense of relief 
and often comparative elation which follows a normal 
and fairly complete elimination of the bowel contents, 
but they fail to connect with that sense of physical 
satisfaction the fact that the relative failure of this 
function is a sinister warning that the selection of 
foods for the digestive processes is not properly 
adapted to the individual. And yet so long as there 
are no actually pronounced morbid symptoms the 
average conventional person eats exactly what every 
other average conventional person eats, and regards 
such policy as essential to good manners. 

To be sure, the economic problem is sufficiently 
prominent in most families to make it impracticable 
for each member of the family to have a separate 
menu. Nevertheless, if the same average family could 
acquire a practical knowledge of what constitutes for 
each one the most suitable combination of foods, 
even where there was but a limited selection, it would 
be possible to avoid a great many instances of over- 
taxing the digestion, with incidental under-assimila- 
tion. The result would be that the aggregate health 
and vitality of such a family would be greatly in- 



Getting Natural. 297 



creased. There would seem to be no more appropriate 
function for the family physician than, so far as prac- 
ticable, to undertake to educate his families with 
reference to such important factors in their physical 
welfare. 

A few years ago there was a yery prominent 
Philadelphian who maintained a commanding posi- 
tion in the general business and financial affairs of 
the city until he was well up into the nineties. Day 
after day, when long past eighty, he could be found 
at his office busily occupied with, not only his own 
business affairs, but with matters of public interest. 
He had one unusual habit which his friends often 
noticed. Instead of sitting at the ordinary desk, it 
was his custom, while engaged in the daily routine, 
to stand at a high desk. It would not be a very great 
stretch of imagination to make it appear that this 
unusual postural habit in a measure accounted for the 
maintenance of this man's mental and physical vigor 
for so many years beyond the average span of life. 

Some anatomist of renown, in a course of exten- 
sive studies as to posture in connection with health 
and hygiene, has supplied some very plausible and 
convincing reasons for various forms of human ills 
which, no doubt, materially shorten the average span 
of life. This authority tells us that the conventional 
posture of civilization is unnatural, and that the 
human frame, even after centuries of gradual adapta- 
tion, has not yet accommodated itself to these changed 
attitudes. However much conjecture there may be in 
these ideas, the fact remains that the Englishman who 



298 'Optimistic Medicine. 

leaves the dinner table to stroll about his estate or in 
severe weather stand before an open fire, is giving 
his digestive organs a much better chance to perform 
their duties than the American club man who eats a 
hearty meal and then sits down in a luxurious easy 
chair to smoke a heavy cigar. Likewise the house- 
wife who gets up from the dinner table to assist in 
clearing away and washing the dishes usually enjoys 
better health than her sister who lives at ease at a 
high-class hotel. 

Theories on feeding and digestion are, of course, 
innumerable, but a few general facts stand out con- 
spicuously. People who exercise judgment and re- 
straint, not only in the quality of foods, but their com- 
bination, and who carry out reasonable symmetrical 
forms of exercise, derive sufficient benefit from such 
habits as to thoroughly justify the time and attention 
devoted to a little study of these problems. 

There are probably few families of average social 
position, even including those who have been com- 
paratively well educated, who have any real compre- 
hension of the chemistry of the alimentary canal. One 
fact alone, if explained to them, would no doubt pro- 
duce a great deal of benefit. If they could understand 
that nearly every case of indigestion was accompanied 
by an undue excess of acid in the stomach and bowels, 
that in itself would give them a clue as to how they 
could avoid that dietary excess which produces such 
conditions. If they could be led to understand that 
various forms of excess acid and toxemia are re- 
garded by many physicians as the causes of a good 



Getting Natural. 299 



proportion of the ills of later life, they would natu- 
rally see the advisability of modifying their selection 
of foods with the hope of more nearly approximating 
the normal benign conditions of childhood, when, as 
before stated, the bodily machinery functions so 
smoothly and perfectly. 

It is probable that the chief basis for that old and 
oft-repeated statement that "while there is life there 
is hope" rests more completely upon the capacity of 
the digestive tract to recuperate if given a fair chance 
than upon any other detail of bodily function. Very 
astonishing results often follow a change from an un- 
scientific, ill-adapted mode of feeding to one which is 
suitable to the age and condition of the individual. 
The digestive function seems to possess a wonderful 
power of recovery to normal if given the right 
treatment. 

There are probably not many people who can ar- 
range their daily routine with such absolute freedom 
as John D. Rockefeller, considerably past 80, and 
who is reported to be in a very satisfactory state of 
health. Fifteen or twenty years ago he was supposed 
to be in a very much depressed physical condition, 
but a suitable diet, with a reasonable amount of out- 
door exercise, has made him probably younger at 
eighty than he was at sixty. There are plenty of men 
and women who have to earn their living who could, 
nevertheless, if properly instructed, so adapt them- 
selves to conditions as to acquire a new lease of life 
and often comparative juvenility. There are few 
physicians in this present era of splendid preparation 



300 Optimistic Medicine. 

for professional work who are not perfectly capable 
of instructing their families as to how they may avoid 
the consequences of these hygienic errors and get 
back nearer to the resonance and rebounding vitality 
of youth. And, when all is said and done, the prob- 
lem resolves itself chiefly into the question of diet 
and exercise. 

There are physicians who attribute the rapid in- 
crease of cancer to faulty nutrition. In fact, that is 
probably the generally accepted theory as to the cause 
of this dread condition. But it is not necessary to 
report cancer as an exceptional instance as the result 
of these errors. Many of the most common ailments 
of elderly life can usually be traced back in some way 
or other to this cause. 

It should not, however, be inferred that diet alone 
can accomplish the desired results. There must be 
exercise of the right kind, and an abundance of it. 
No person can expect to keep in good health who lives 
a life of complete indulgence. It is simply one of 
the things that cannot be brought about. Therefore, 
it is just as necessary for the widow whose hard- 
working husband has departed early from this foot- 
stool, leaving her abundantly "provided for," to have 
some useful occupation that will occupy her mind and 
muscles as it is that the less fortunate woman who is 
doing scrub work should secure a reasonable amount 
of rest that she may recover from the exceptional 
fatigues of her occupation. In fact, if there is any- 
thing which has gone to prove that there is always a 
fly in the ointment, it is the state of health resulting to 



Getting Natural. 301 



those whose financial situation is such as to enable 
them to live lives of absolute indolence. 

All the above statements are, of course, trite and 
uninteresting to an educated physician; but it is dif- 
ferent with the lay public. Their ideas on these sub- 
jects are so nebulous and generally vague as to be 
amusing if they were not tragic. 

At no time in the world's history has there been 
such a general overhauling of social theories and anal- 
ysis of motives as at present. A large number of so- 
called poor people are being taught by cranks and 
crooks, chiefly the latter, that they are ill treated by 
those who are better off in this world's goods. A 
great deal of altruistic work is laid out for all classes 
of intelligent people, and it is important that these 
problems be taken up and worked out. Physicians 
have certainly done their full share in philanthropic 
work among the poor; at least, as regards the treat- 
ment of the sick. But it is doubtful if they have done 
as much to instruct these people how to keep well as 
the interests of society and of the physicians in partic- 
ular require. 

Ignorant people who know practically nothing of 
hygiene avoid the physician as long as possible. They 
indulge themselves in gluttony and other forms of ex- 
cess when they have opportunity, all of which con- 
duces to extreme poverty and its unpleasant conse- 
quences. The less intelligent the family, the more 
reckless they are, if they have the means available, 
in the purchase of foods. It is well known that the 
average well-to-do family is much more economical 



302 Optimistic Medicine. 

and careful in its marketing than the poorer classes, 
and there is much to be learned by even an ordinary 
family of fair intelligence. 

The physician who undertakes to instruct his 
families along the lines of hygiene and kitchen eco- 
nomics is, in reality, simply building up for himself in 
the not-distant future a class of practice that, while 
equally profitable, will be far less taxing than the 
treatment of cases resulting from gross ignorance. 
There is no angle from which this subject can be con- 
sidered where it is not in the direct interest of the 
physician to systematically carry on this program of 
general enlightenment. 



GLOSSARY 



Aborigines. The first inhabitants of a country. 

Abscess. A collection of pus in the tissues of the body caused 
by micro-organisms (bacteria). 

Adenoid. Swelling of the lymph glands in the roof of the naso- 
pharynx. 

Adolescence. Youth; period between puberty and maturity. 

Albumin. The white of an egg; the nutritious farinaceous matter 
stored up with the embryo of an animal or plant. 

Albuminous. Like or containing albumin. 

Albuminuria. Presence of albumin in the urine; Bright's disease; 
nephritis. 

Alimentation. The act of giving nourishment; the function of the 
alimentary canal; food. 

Alkaline. Having the reaction of alkali; opposed to acid. 

Anatomical. Relating to or according to, the laws of anatomy. 

Anatomy. The science of the structure of organized bodies, speci- 
fically of the human body. 

Anemic. A person with diminished number of red blood cor- 
puscles. 

Antacid. A substance that counteracts or neutralizes acidity. 

Antibody. Substance in the blood and tissue juices of animals 
rendered immune by inoculation that antagonizes certain 
toxins. 

Appendicitis. Inflammation of the vermiform appendix of the 
cecum. 

Appraisement. The act of setting the value; a valuation. 

Approximate. To bring or carry near; cause to approach. 

Assimilate. To convert into or incorporate with the substance of 
the animal body. 

Astigmatic. Pertaining to or affected with astigmatism; blurred 
vision. 

Atmosphere. The: air encircling the earth. 

Autogenous. Originated within the body. As applied to bacterial 
vaccine, the term denotes those vaccines which are made from 
the bacteria found in the patient. 

(303) 



304 Glossary. 



Autointoxication. A form of autoinfection usually due to im- 
perfect digestion of food in which the waste products of 
digestion are absorbed into the blood, poisoning the system. 

Autosuggestion, The apparently spontaneous occurrence to the 
mind of ideas derived from impressions received in the 
hypnotic state; self-suggestion; imagination. 

Basic. Pertaining to the base; fundamental. 

Biological In accordance with principles of biology. 

Biologist. One who studies or is skilled in the science of living 

forms. 

Bombastic. Swelled; high sounding; big without meaning. 
Blight's Disease. A form of kidney disease characterized by the 

presence of albumin in the urine. 
Bronchopneumonia. Inflammation of the lungs and bronchi. 

Camouflage. To misrepresent; to disguise. 

Cancer. A malignant tumor or growth, soft, friable, bleeding, 

eroding. 

Cardio-renaL Pertaining to heart and kidneys. 
Cataclysm. A deluge; flood; a violent or sudden physical change 

of the earth's surface. 
Catarrh. An inflammatory affection of any inucous membrane 

accompanied by increase of the mucus, especially from the 

nose, 

CatarrhaL Pertaining to or produced by catarrh. 
Cathartic. A purgative medicine; a medicine to cause the bowels 

to move. 

Charlatan. A quack; a pretender to medical skill. 
Chemistry. The science which treats of the properties of elemen- 
tary and compound substances. 
Clinical. Pertaining to a clinic or to the bedside. 
Code. A body of classified laws or regulations; a system of 

signals. 

Coherent Sticking together, cleaving. 
Co-operation. The act of working or operating together to one 

end; joint operation. 
Co-ordinate. Being of equal order or of the same rank or degree; 

working together; simultaneously. 

Corroding. Eating away gradually; impairing; wasting. 
Coryza. Cold in the head. 
Counterimtant Producing a counterirritation; a derivation agent 



Glossary. 305 



Credulity. Easiness of belief; disposition to believe on slight evi- 
dence or no evidence. 

Croup. A disease characterized by laborious and suffocative 
breathing; laryngeal spasm. 

Data. Something assumed, known or conceded for the basis of 

an argument or inference. 

Diagnosis. The recognition of a disease by its symptoms. 
Digestion. The process or act of converting food into material 

fit to be absorbed and assimilated. 
Diphtheria, A contagious throat disease characterized by the 

formation of a false membrane in the air passages. 
Duodenal, Pertaining to the duodenum, the part of the intestine 

joining the pyloric end of the stomach. 

Eliminate. Causing an evacuation; to get rid of. 

Environment. That which: surrounds; external circumstances of 

an organism. 
Equilibrium, A state of balance or equipoise; a condition in 

which opposing forces exactly counteract each other. 
Ethical. Pertaining to the ethics; moral. 
Ethics. The science that treats of the principles of human 

morality and duty; moral philosophy. 
Eustachian Tube. A tube which leads from the cavity of the 

tympanum of the ear to the pharynx. 
Exorcise. To expel by prayers or incantations. 
Exudate. An excretion thrown out by any of the body tissues due 

to disease. 

Faculty. Any mental or physical power; mental capacity; skill 

obtained by practice. 
Febrile. Pertaining to fever. 

Formula. A prescribed method of preparing a medicine; a recipe. 
Fomentation, The act of fomenting; warm or medicated liquids 

applied to a diseased part; incitement. 
Function, The special normal or proper action of any part or 

organ. 
Functioning. Executing or performing of anything normal to the 

part thus acting. 

Gastric. Pertaining to the stomach. 
Gastronomically. Pertaining to good eating. 

20 



306 Glossary. 



Germ. A microbe or bacillus; a spore. 

Glandular. Pertaining to, resembling or having glands. 

Handicapped. Encumbered or hindered. 

Hemorrhage. Bleeding from the lungs, arteries, veins or any- 
where. 

Hygiene. The science of health, its preservation and the laws 
of sanitation. 

Hypertension, Abnormally high blood-pressure. 

Hypnotic. Inducing sleep-; pertaining to or of the nature of 
hypnotism; a drug that induces sleep. 

Idiosyncrasy. A characteristic peculiar to an individual; an un- 
usual harmful reaction to a certain substance, as to a drug. 

Immunity. Exemption from any duty, office or tax; freedom from 
natural or usual liability; freedom from a certain disease; 
resistance to a disease that effectually overcomes its attacks. 

Injudicious. Indiscreet, unwise; lack of good judgment. 

Introspective. Inspecting within; examining one's thoughts or 
motives. 

Jaundice. A disease characterized by yellowness of the eyeballs, 
skin, etc., caused by biliary derangement. 

Kidney. One of two oblong flattened organs which separate the 
urine from the blood. 

Laxative. Loosening; purgative; a medicine that gently moves 

the bowels. 
Liver. A glandular organ secreting bile which aids in absorption 

of fat from the food, etc. 
Longevity. Extended age. 
Lumbago. Rheumatism of the muscles of the loins. 

Mastication. The act of masticating; chewing. 

Mastoid. The hard piece of bone behind the ear. 

MentaL Pertaining to the mind; intellectual. 

Modicum. A little. 

Morale. Moral condition; that mental state which renders a man 

capable of endurance and of exhibiting courage in the presence 

of danger. 
Morbid. Pertaining to disease; sickly; unhealthy. 



Glossary. 307 



Mucoid. Like mucus. 

Mucous Membrane. A moist glandular lining of some of the 

cavities and canals of the human* body. 
Mucus. A sticky fluid secreted by mucous membranes. 

NasaL Pertaining to, affected by, or pronounced through the nose. 

Nasopharynx. The cavity behind the nasal cavities and above the 
mouth. 

Nephritis. Inflammation of the kidneys; B right's disease. 

Nerves. Gray fibers which convey sensations from all parts of 
the body to or from the brain. 

Neuropathic. Pertaining to or characterized by a nervous dis- 
order. 

Neurotic. Pertaining to the nerves; pertaining to or affected with 
a neurosis. 

Neutralize. To make neutral; render inactive, as acid neutralized 
by alkali or alkali neutralized by acid. 

Nitrogenous. Pertaining to or containing nitrogen. 

Nonogenarian. A person more than ninety years of age. 

Nutrition. That which nourishes; food; the action of promoting 
growth or repairing waste in organic bodies. 

Obstetrical. Relating to childbirth. 

Octogenarian. One who is eighty years old. 

Opiate. A remedy containing opium or some of its derivatives. 

Optimism. The doctrine that everything in the present state of 

existence is for the best; state of being constantly in a good 

humor despite adversity. 

Oracular. Of the nature of an oracle; dogmatically magisterial. 
Oral. Of or pertaining to the mouth; spoken by the mouth. 
Organism. Organic structure!; a separate living entity; the human 

body. 

Peristalsis. The wormlike movement by which the alimentary 
canal propels its contents. 

Perverted, Turned from the true end or proper purpose; mis- 
applied. 

Pessimistic. Pertaining to, or characterized by pessimism; gloomy. 

Pharmaceutical. Of or pertaining to pharmacy or to preparing 
drugs for medical purposes. 

Pharynx. The musculo-membranous sac at the upper part of the 
esophagus. 



308 Glossary. 



Physiological Pertaining to physiology. 

Physiology. Science that treats of the vital functions performed 

by the organs of animals and plants. 
Plethora. Having excess of blood. 
Pleural. Pertaining to the pleura, the membranous bag enveloping 

the lung. 

Pneumonia. Acute inflammation of the lungs. 
Poise. Weight; balance; equilibrium. 

Posterior. The hinder parts of an animal; the back of anything. 
Powwowism. A superstition in which incantation is used to 

exorcise disease. 
Practitioners. Those engaged in the exercise of any profession, 

especially medicine or law. 

Primordial. Original or primitive; of the simplest and most un- 
developed character. 
Prognosis. Knowledge of the probable result in a disease from 

its symptoms; predication of the outcome of an illness in a 

person. 

Propensity. Natural tendency. 
Prophylactic, A preventive of disease. 
Primitive. Pertaining to the beginning; original;) old fashioned; 

crude; antiquated. 

Prudish. Like a prude; affectedly precise, nice or scrupulous. 
Psychological. Pertaining to psychology or the science of the 

mind. 

Recuperation. Recovery. 

Regimen. Systematic regulation of the diet or habits. 

Remedial. Affording, or intended for a remedy. 

Renal. Pertaining to the kidneys. 

Respiration. The act or process of breathing. 

Respiratory. Pertaining to respiration. 

Rheumatism. A painful disease of the muscles and joints accom- 
panied by swelling and stiffness. 

Rudiments. First principles; anything in its first or undeveloped 
state. 

Saline. Like salt. 

Sinus. A recess, hollow space, or cavity; also venous sinuses 

containing blood. 
Sinuses. Large cavities within. 
Solicitous. Eager; anxious; concerned. 



'Glossary. 309 



Specialist. One who devotes himself to a particular branch of a 

profession. 

Specimens. Samples; part of something to show the quality. 
Sputum. Saliva; spittle. 
Stimulus. That which stimulates; a spur; anything exciting to 

action. 
Superfunction. Excessive activity of an organ or structure. 

Symptom. That which indicates the existence of something else 

of which it is the effect, token or sign. 
Syphilis. A contagious venereal disease producing skin eruptions, 

sore throat, loss of hair, destruction of tissue, insanity, etc. 
Syphilitic. Affected with syphilis. 

Temperature. State of a body with respect to sensible heat. 
Temporizing. Yielding to current opinion; delaying. 
Therapeutic. Treatment of disease. 

Therapeutically. Relating to remedies used to cure ailments. 
Thyroid. The name of a large ductless gland situated in the neck, 

the enlargement of which produces goiter. 
Timorousi. Fearful of danger; full of scruples. 
Toxin. A poison produced by the action of bacteria upon organic 

matter. 
Tuberculosis. A lethal disease accompanied by the formation of 

small tubercles in the tissues, destruction of lung, hemorrhage 

from the lung, and wasting of the body. 
Toxemia. A blood poisoning. 
Turpitude. Moral depravity. 

Ulcer. A sore, attended with a secretion of pus. 

Unethical. Not according to the principles of ethics or moral 

philosophy. 
UnphysiologicaL Not according to normal, physiological action 

of the bodily organs. 

Vaccine. A therapeutic virus prepared by cultivating disease 
germs, then killing them with heat, and injecting this into 
the sick person. 

Vitality. Vital force. 

Volatile. Diffusing freely; capable of changing from a liquid 
state to a gaseous condition very readily, as benzine. 

X-ray. The Rontgen ray; a radiogram or x-ray photograph. 



INDEX 



Abscess, mastoid, 221 
Absent treatment, 92 
Absorption, 183 
Acid intoxication, 298 
Adenoids, 88, 219 
Adolescence and the family doc- 
tor, 72 

the egotism of, 72 

contact with the doctor at, 75 
Adolescent eccentricities, 74, 82, 85 
Advertising, 35 
Age, old, encumbrance of, 146 

premature old, 290 
Air, fresh, 88 
Alcoholic stimulants, 265 
Amiability, 255 
Annuity, 209 
Anxiety habit, 162 

neurosis in childhood, 57 
in man, 96 
in women, 94 
Apoplectic stroke, 131 
Appendicitis, 184 
Apprehension, 100, 137, 141, 239, 

270 

Army base hospital, 274 
Army surgeon who treated the 

Indian chief, the, 17 
Atmosphere, family, 122 
Attitude essential, 116 
Avarice, 147 

of old age, 240 

Baby, 141 

Baby's second summer, 290 

Bachelor, 193, 194, 198 



Bachelor maids, social sophistries 

regarding, 193 

Banishment, mental effects of, 119 
Bath, morning, 145 

hand rub, 146, 179 

plunge, cold, 145 

shower, 145 

warm, 145 
Bills, paying, 34, 35 
Blindfolded, walking along life's 

pathway, 38 

Blood oressure, high, 141, 160, 163 
Boarding house keeper, 167 
Body, chilling the, 168 

mental influence upon, 4 

torture of, 270 
Borderland cases, 257 
Breakfast, 145, 146 
Breathing, 221 

capacity and habits, 89 
Bright's disease, 174, 185 
Bronchitis, 177, 179, 195 
Bronchopneumonia, 261 

Calamity, impending, 100 
Calmness, 99 
Cancer 161, 300 

case, the two doctors and the, 15 
Case trifling, consider no office, 19 
Causes of rheumatic tendencies, 
investigating, 39 

financial benefit resulting to pa- 
tients, 39 

Celibacy, reserve of, 195 
Celibate of fifty or sixty, the, 193 
Cheerful view of everything, 100 



312 



Index. 



Childhood and its mental prob- 
lems, 54 

anxiety neurosis in, 57 
Children, medical inspection of 

school, 226 
pampered, 59 
rearing of, 105, 106 
supervision of, 91 
the square deal for growing, 68 
Chill, inducing reaction after, 175 
Chilling the body, 168 
Cigar, after-dinner, 298 
Clock, the old story of the kitchen, 

47 

Clothing, 167, 168 
Cold, 172 
in the head (coryza), 88 

persistent, 219 

Colds, catarrhal, 174, 179, 180 
constitutional effects of their 

repetition, 37 
studying prevention of ordinary, 

37 
Conserve, teaching the mother 

how to, 97 

appreciation which follows, 97 
Contagion in catarrhal conditions, 

175 
Co-operation between doctor and 

patient, 19 
Coryza, 88 

Deaths, early, 291 
Decline, going into, 124 

woman in, 158 

Demeanor, highly dignified, 248 
Denatured literature, 81 
Dentist, 272 
Depression, mental, sense of 

humor the great panacea 

for, 110 
Desk, high, 297 
Dessert, 159 



Diagnosis, brutally frank, 140 
frank, 276 
mental, 284 
unfavorable, 271 
Diagnostic guide, mental attitude 

as a, 110 
Diet crank, circumventing the, 69 

in late life, 242, 243 
Dietetic errors, 186, 187, 188 
Difficulties, keeping patients out 

of, 36 

Digestion, 84 
intestinal, 183 
normal, 191 
poor, 132 

Diplomacy, shirt-sleeve, 60 
Disagreements, cause of, 103, 104 
Disease, building immunity to, 36, 

52 

Discipline, 58 
Discouragement, dying from, 

247 

or encouragement, 114 
Disorganization, the thyroid the 

key to much, 50 
Diversion, importance of thought, 

22 

Diversions, club, 193 
Doctor abroad, the, 19 
adolescence and the family, 72 
and patient, co-operation be- 
tween, 19 
at his office, 19 
of excessive thrift, the, 14 
quoting the, 32 

who climbed the mountain, 44 
who is a sleuth, the, 94 
Doctor's difficulties, 120 
Doctors, the two, and the cancer 

case, 15 
Domestic problems, adjudicating, 

104 
Dread, 138 



Index. 



313 



Dress, feminine, healthful, 80 
Drudgery, professional, 286 

Ear, 219 

Easy mark, 200 

Eater, heavy, 131 

Eccentricities, adolescent, 74, 82, 
85 

Economic home problems, 285 

Economy, 209 

Efficiency, retaining, late in life, 
229 

Egotism of adolescence, the, 72 
contact with the doctor at, 75 

Elderly, acute diseases among, 172 
people, 148, 159 

Encouragement or discourage- 
ment, 114 

Energy, wasting dynamic, 96, 152 

Enthusiasts, drastic suggestions 
of, 112 

Eustachian tube 220 

Exercise, 45, 130, 135, 139, 140, 
188, 190, 205, 265 

Exercise, mental, 147 

Exorcising mystery, 21 

Explanations which produce last- 
ing impressions, 24 

Eyes, 217 

Fallacy, proneness of human 

nature to, 213 
False security, 183 
Family atmosphere, 122 

the new, 19 

Fatalistic tendency, 164 
Fatigue, 156, 173, 188 
Fear to do some necessary things, 

the, 49 
Feeding in tuberculosis, 125 

injudicious, 183, 185 
Flatulence, 182 
Food, 292 



Food, animal, eating too much, 49 

Fooling parents, 74 

Fountain of youth, 170 

Fractures, 261 

Frankness versus secretiveness, 32 

Friend, faithful, 240 

Frightening the patient, 272 

Garrulity and how discouraged, 

34 

Getting what you give, 171 
Ghost, 162 
Gloom, 239 

Grandmother stage, the early, 151 
Grouch, the doctor is not a, 200 

Habits and breathing capacity, 89 

"sissy," correcting, 56 
Handicap of physicians, 67, 68 
Haphazard living, 28 

what results from it, 28 
Hash, boy who ate so much, 62 
Health, good, and good morals. 

83 

normal, 186 

supervising the family, 25 
Hearing, 219 

Heart, bad; cause of, 135 
disease, increase of deaths from, 

44 
causes, one of the common, 

44 
the doctor who climbed the 

mountain, 44 
failure, 182, 251 
Heartburn, 181 
Hearts, broken-down, 128, 132, 

134 

Heating of the house, 168 
Hermits, 256 

Hillside, the red house on the, 26 
Home or sanatorium for tuber- 
culosis, 119 



314 



Index. 



Home remedies, 31 

their physiological action 

should be explained, 32 
the successful battle at, 120 
House on the hillside, the red, 26 

temperature of, 168 
Housemother who worries, 93 
Human body a marvelous ma- 
chine, 2 
instructing the owner how to 

run it, 2 

existence, normal, 53 
Humor, developing the child's 

sense of, 61 

the sense of, 14, 207, 248 
sense of, a therapeutic agent, 

110, 146 

great panacea for mental de- 
pression, 110 
Humorous phases, the daily grind 

has many, 110 
Hunger, 172 
Husband and wife, 144 
Hygiene, 243 

literature of, 79 

Hygienic rules, impressing the im- 
portance of, 76 

Idleness, 233 
Immunity, 172 
class, developing candidates for 

the advanced, 53 
inheritance of, 40 
mainly the exercise of good 

judgment, 44 
maintenance of, 172 
to disease, building, 36 
Impressions, explanations which 

produce lasting, 24 
Incentive for living, 197 
Indian chief, the army surgeon 

who treated the, 17 
Indigestion, acute, 181, 294 



Indigestion, underfeeding to avoid, 

58 

Indignation, righteous, 255 
Individual, rights of the, 112 
Infants, average, 54 
Influenza epidemic, 274 
Inheritance of immunity, 40 
Innocent until proved guilty, 116 
Insurance, frequent contact with 

physician good, 90 
Intelligence and longevity, 83 
Investments, disastrous, 94 
Irritation of the mucous mem- 
branes, avoidance of, 42 

Joke, an ancient medical, 36 

Kidneys, broken-down, 128 

harmful effects on, 264 
Kitchen clock, the old story of 
the, 47 

Laugh, 110 
Lazy person, 142 

woman, 152 
Life shorteners, 104 

well-balanced mental and phys- 
ical, 52 

Life's pathway blindfolded, walk- 
ing along, 38 
Literature, denatured, 81 
Live long, threatened men, 25 
Liver, 183 

congestion of, 184 
Living, haphazard, 28 

what results from it, 28 
Loafing and overeating, 130 
Locating the weakest spot, 29 
Longevity, 188, 189 

and intelligence, 83 

stumbling blocks to, 236 
Lump in the stomach, the, 107 
Lunch, noon, 186 



Index. 



315 



Man, rest and recuperation for, 144 
the overworked business, 128, 

144 

Mankind, enemies of, 172 
Martyr, 156 

Martyrs in the home, 103, 107 
Mastication, 221 
Mastoid abscess, 221 
Match, evenest, 163 
Matchmaker, 196 
Meals, Friday, 235 
relative quantities at, 145 
Sunday, 236 

Medical inspection of school chil- 
dren, 226 

joke, an ancient, 36 
writing, 268 
Medicine, bombastic pretence of 

primitive, 1 
doctor, scorn of the modern, 

for such methods, 1 
Men, threatened, live long, 25 
Mental attitude as a diagnostic 

guide, 110 

disease and tuberculosis, 123 
effects of banishment, 119 
influence upon body, 4 
perversion, 94 
telepathy, 122 
torture of the body, 270 
Mentality, misdirected patholog- 
ical influence of, 208 
Milk supply, 113 
Mind, influence of, 109 

single-track, 239 

Morals, good, and good health, 83 
Mother, teaching the, how to con- 
serve, 97 

appreciation which follows, 97 
Mother-in-law, 104 
Mothers should know more of 
physiology and psychology, 
108 



Mothers, two types of, 99 

weak, indulgent, 60 
Motion, perpetual, 151 
Mouth breathing, 88 
Mountain, the doctor who climbed 

the, 44 
Mucous membranes, avoidance of 

irritation of the, 42 
Music, 125 
Mustard, 264 
Mystery, exorcising, 21 

Nap for tired man, 145 

Nasal passages, 218, 221 

Nasopharynx, 218 

Natural, getting back to that 

which is, 290 
Nature muddles, 3 
Neglect, a little "wholesome," 54 
Nephritis, 185 

Neurosis, anxiety, in childhood, 57 
Nicotine a heart-irritant, 143 
Nose and throat, uncorrected de- 
fects of, 225, 228 
Nurses, psychical effect of girl, 

274 
Nutrition, 91 

grotesque conceptions of, 69 

maximum, 123 

Object in life, 197 
Occupation, useful, 300 
Octogenarian, 254 
Office case trifling, consider no, 19 

the doctor at his, 19 
Old associating with young, 169 

maid, 193, 197 
Optimism, 137, 247, 277 

and pessimism, 98 

as a remedial measure, 1, 33 

importance of, to the patient, 4 
responsibility of physician for 
this attitude, 4 



316 



Index. 



Optimism of childhood, normal, 
71 

saves physician's vitality, 13 

self -delusive, 193 

the first essential, 274 

the great panacea, 109 
Optimist, the, 95 

Optimistic doctors and patients, 
longevity of, 13 

spirit, 146 

Organs, maintaining the vital, 249 
Overeating, 133, 166, 180 
Overfeeding, 119, 125 
Overwork, 129 

Paralysis, 164 
Paralytics, 164 
Parents who become prejudiced, 

65 

Patent medicines, harm of, 66 
Pathway blindfolded, walking 

along life's, 38 

Patient, co-operation between doc- 
tor and, 19 

who is richly repaid, the, 20 
Patients out of difficulties, keep- 
ing, 36 
scaring, 16 

People who live in a false secur- 
ity, 48 
Pepper, 264 

Persons who need treatment, 128 
Pessimism, 162, 247 
and optimism, 98 
curing, 110, 111 
habitual, 102 
results of, 109 
Philanthropic, 200 
Physician and patient, closer as- 
sociation of, 51 

family, chief qualification of, 86 
frequent contact with, good in- 
surance, 90 



Physician, occasional contact with, 

important, 55 
school, 66 
tactless, 115 
the society, 31 
the, whose patients are always 

very ill, 7 

Physicians, handicap of, 67, 68 
Pluck wins, 207 
Pneumonia, 173, 195, 251, 261 
Policy, professional, 68 
Posture, importance of correct, 

67 

Practitioner, the irregular, 117 
where the regular, always has 

his advantage, 9 
Prevention, of ordinary colds, 

studying, 37 
constitutional effects of their 

repetition, 37 
of tuberculosis, 126 
Profession, medical, 200 
Professional drudgery, 286 
Psychical effect of girl nurses, 

274 
Psycho-analysis, 154 

Quack, 278 

Ration, balanced, 133, 136 
Recluse, 256 
Recreation, 143, 241 

vital organs need, 234 
Red house on the hillside, the, 26 
Relaxation, 143, 144, 159 
Remedies, home, 31 

their physiological action should 

be explained, 32 
Repaid, the patient who is richly, 

20 

Repose, 99 

Respiration, organs of, 261 
Rest, 280 



Index. 



317 



Rest and food in tuberculosis, 
115 

organic, 259 
Restlessness, 235 

Rheumatic tendencies, investigat- 
ing causes of, 39 

financial benefit resulting to pa- 
tients, 39 

Rheumatism, 89, 178, 237 
Ridicule for the adolescent, 73 
Righteous indignation, 255 
Roaring in ear, 221 
Ruts, thinking in, 153 

working in, 153 

Sacrifices of doctors, 200 

Salads, 131 

Sanatorium or home for tuber- 
culosis, 119 

Sandwiches, 186 

Scaring patients, 16 

Seclusion, 196 

Secretiveness versus frankness, 32 

Security, people who live in a, 48 

Self-pity, 156 

Self-poise, 99 

Self -treatment, 139 

Senses, preserving the special, 212 

Shirt-sleeve diplomacy, 60 

Single-track mind, 239 

Sings at her work, the woman 
who, 102 

"Sissy" habits, correcting, 56 

Skin, 266 

Sleuth, the doctor who is a, 94 

Smell, 215, 219 
loss of, 215 

Soap and water, 267 

Society physician, the, 31 

Sophistries, social, regarding 
bachelor maids, 193 

Specialist, 281 

Spices, 264 



Spinster a professional perplexity, 
197 

school teacher, 194 
Spot, locating the weakest, 29 
Spunk, a good dose of, 87 
Starvation, 132 
Statistics, vital, 186, 249 
Stomach, child's misconceptions 
of function of, 70 

the lump in the, 107 
Sugar coating, 280 
Superstition, 49 

Supervising the family health, 25 
Surgeon, the army, who treated 

the Indian chief, 17 
Sweets and pickles, 75 

Tasks, many thankless, 193 
Taste, 212, 219, 222 

loss of, 212 
Tax on bachelors, 195 
Teeth, 88 

brushing the, 75 

neglected, 212, 224 

neglect of, 67 
Temper, uncertain, 255 
Temperament, irascible, 255 

melancholic, 284 
Temperate man, 143 
Temperature of the house, 168 
Therapeutic agent, sense of hu- 
mor, a, 110, 146 
Thrift, the doctor of excessive, 

14 

Thought diversion, importance of, 
22 

propulsion in healthful chan- 
nels, 33 

Threatened men live long, 25 
Thyroid, the, the key to much 

disorganization, 50 
Treatment, open-air, 118 
Trouble, hunting for, 94 



318 



Index. 



Tubercular suspect, the, 112, 113 
Tuberculosis and mental disease, 
123 

discouraging the germ of, 79 

in war zones, 113 

the problem in curing, 122 

Ulcer, gastric, 183, 260 
Unconventional, fear of the, 194 
Underfeeding, serious conse- 
quences of, 134 
to avoid indigestion, 58 
Underwear, 237 

Vacation, 230 
Vaccine, 214 
Variety, need of, 234 
Vegetables, 131 

coarse, and some of their draw- 
backs, 46 

Vision, status of, 88 
Vital statistics, 186 



Walking outdoors, 155 
Warning, words of, 201 
Wear and tear, unnecessary, 2 
Woman in decline, 158 

lazy, 152 

who sinsrs at her work, the, 102 
Women, men who do not under- 
stand, 96 

Words of warning, 201 
Worries, 282 

the housemother who, 93 
Worry, 161 

killing the germ of, 22 

the germ of, 93 
the antitoxin, 93 

X-ray of teeth, 216 

Young, associating with, 169 
Youth, fountain of, 170 



Uni?ersity of Toronto 
Library 





Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



