n' 



|00 

=CNJ 




■CD 



=co 



Hamill, John Molyneaux 
Diet in relation to 
normal nutrition 




216 






FOR OFFICIAL USE. '^ 



REPORTS 

ON 

PUBLIC HEALTH AND 
MEDICAL SUBJECTS. 

No. 9. 



DIET IN RELATION TO NORMAL 
NUTRITION 

by 

J. M. HAMILL, O.B.E., M.D.. D.Sc, 

A Medical Officer of the Ministry of Health. 




MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 



LONDON: 
PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE 

1921. 
Price ^d. Net. 



FOR OFFICIAL USE. 

REPORTS 
ON 



PUBLIC HEALTH AND 
MEDICAL SUBJECTS. 

No. 9. 



DIET IN RELATION TO NORMAL 
NUTRITION 



by 



J. M. HAMILL, O.B.E., M.D., D.Sc, 

A Medical Officer of the Ministry of Health. 




MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 



LONDON: 
PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE 

1921. 
Price ^d. Net. 



To the Right Hon. Sir Alfred Mond, Bart., M.P., 
^Minister of Health. 
Sir, 

I BEG to present the following Report on Diet in relation 
to Normal Nutrition, by Dr. J. M. Hamill, one of the Medical 
Officers of the Ministry. 

The sound nutrition of the individual and the community is 
the foundation of the pubHc health. Though not wholly dependent 
upon the amount or quality of the food consumed, it is obv'ious 
that the food of a people is of j)rimary importance in nutrition ; 
other factors are effective mastication, the proper use of the 
dietary selected, and the capacity of the body to assimilate and 
make full use of the food consumed, which capacity is largel}'^ 
determined by a sufficiency of exercise, rest and fresh air. Whilst 
these important matters should not be neglected, the primary 
necessity is of course a satisfactory diet, and that is the subject 
of the present ]\Iemorandum. 

Requests have been addressed to the Ministry for a concise 
summary of our present knowledge of dietetics. Authoritative 
information is desired by medical officers of health, medical 
practitioners, and teachers and lecturers, as to the extent to which 
our practical knowledge of this subject has been modified by 
recent discoveries, particularly in regard to accessory food con- 
stituents, which have aroused widespread interest. The relations 
of these discoveries to the older established facts of human 
nutrition have not hitherto been brought to general notice, with 
the result that incorrect or unbalanced conceptions^ have obtained 
currency as to the significance of vitamins in nutritive dietaries. 

It is probably true to say that much ill-health, and much of 
the physical impairment, which obviously abounds, is due to 
dietetic deficiency and the improper selection and use of foods. 
The object of this Report is to review the present position and to 
show why, and in what way, the new facts respecting vitamins 
should be woven into the general fabric of our practical knowledge 
of dietetics, a subject in which happily the pubHc are taking ever- 
increasing interest. Its purpose is not, however, academical, or 
of theoretical concern only. It is designed to afford guidance 
to the reader as to the principles which govern the proper selection 
of the articles of food composing his dietary, in respect both of 
economical expenditure and the full maintenance of his bodily 
health. 

The ]\Iinistry have in contemplation the issue of one or more 
leaflets, which may serve as guidance to Local Authorities in any 
- popular.^istruction in this subject which they deem expedient, 
p f,/\ I have the honour to be, 

-^ 1 ^ Your obedient Servant, 

Whitehall, .September, 1921. 




^^39{( 



.9 



DIET IN RlilLATION TO NORMAL NUTRITION. 



It is now generally rccogni.secl that a suitable food supply 
and its rational utilisation are of cardinal importance in main- 
taining the liealtli and efficiency of the community. The first 
official report issued on the physical examination of recruits 
during the late war has revealed the fact that a substantial 
proportion of the population of tliis country suffers from physical 
defects wliich are largely traceable to abnormal or arrested 
development during the period of hfe when growth is most 
rapid. Every addition to knowledge indicates more and more 
clearly that physical defects of this Idnd have their origin largely 
in improper nutrition residting from deficient and unsuitable 
dietaries during early hfe. The body when proj)erly fed and 
well nourished lias extraordinary powers of resistance to disease 
and adverse circumstances. Breast-fed infants of well nourished 
mothers can withstand conditions of hfe that would be fatal 
to others not so well fed. The children of crofters, though often 
living in overcrowded hovels, are remarkably free from rickets, 
whereas children living in better surroundings but improperly 
fed fall readier victims to this disorder of nutrition. The incidence 
of tuberculosis in a community appears to be closely correlated 
with the food supply ; it diminishes when the food supply is 
am^ile and suitable, and increases when for one reason or other 
food is difficult to obtain and the quantity and quahty of the 
diet become inadequate. Troops can withstand great hard- 
ships if their rations are ample and suited to their needs, and the 
ravages of infective diseases such as typhus are especially severe 
amongst those whose resistance has been im^Jaired by lack of 
proper food. During the middle ages in this country harvests 
failed periodically, famine ensued and Avas usually accompanied 
or followed by outbreaks of infectious diseases. The correlation 
was well understood at the time and has survived in the phrase 
" famine and pestilence." 

Sufficient and suitable food is therefore the first essential 
in building up and maintaining the physique and stamina of the 
nation. Good environment and other favourable conditions 
are adjuvant and important, but unless attention is given to the 
basic factor of nutrition, efforts in these directions will be largely 
shorn of their value. 

It is, however, by no means a simple matter to say what is 
sufficient and suitable food, or when a diet may be regarded as 
satisfactory. A very large variety of food-stuff's is ordinarily 
available for consumption, and it is quite possible to prepare from 
these a diet which will be palatable or even luxurious but which 
is inadequate from the point of view of satisfactory nutrition ; 
conversely, a diet may be constructed from sim})le and relatively 
few food-stuffs which so far as present knowledge goes may be 
regarded as meeting essential nutritive requirements. 

During the past few years much attention and research has 
been devoted to dietetic problems, and valuable information 

X (78)1589.3 Wt 15116— 21 8A/55G 15,000 10/21 E&S Item 14. ^ . 



has been obtained regarding the principles which undcrhe nutri- 
tion. So far only the fringe of the subject has l^een touched, 
and much yet remains to be discovered. The outlook, however, 
is ])romising, and perhaps on this account in various quarters 
undue stress has been laid on certain aspects of the subject, 
or too much has been anticipated and deductions have been made 
and conclusions arrived at which cannot be justified in the hglit 
of work so far accompUshed. 

It would be obviously impracticable to review the whole 
subject of nutrition within any reasonable compass, and no 
useful jjurpose Avould be served by the attempt, but in what 
follows an endeavour has been made to present a short summary 
of certain salient features in regard to present-day knowledge 
of dietetics in so far as they appear to have a practical bearing 
upon the question of nutrition. 

1. The Nature of the Nutritive Constituents of Food. 

For ordinary purposes food may be regarded as anything 
which taken into the body is capable of supplying material 
for growth and the repair of waste or for furnishing energy 
for bodily heat and work. ]\Iaterials in large variety are 
available as foods, and contain substances which can be 
allocated to one or more of certain comprehensive chemical 
categories or groups. The chief of these groups are the proteins, 
the carbohydrates and the fats, certain mineral substances 
such as calcium, sodium, potassium, iron, &c., and in addition 
a class of substances of which little is known except that their 
presence or absence in a jjarticular food-stuff is inferred from 
the effects produced on nutrition by the administration of the 
food-stuff in question. To this class of substances the terms 
" accessory food factors " or " vitamins " have been provisionally 
applied. 

It is beyond the scope of this memorandum to describe in 
detail the chemical and other characteristics of the three great 
classes of organic food-stuffs or " proximate principles " as they 
are sometimes called, viz., the proteins, carbohydrates and fats. 
Information on these points can readilj/ be obtained from various 
works deahng with the subject.* 

2. Energy Requirements of the Body. 

The repair of waste and the supply of material for growth 
of the body account for only a fraction of the total daily intake 
of food. This fraction varies somewhat ^^■ith age ; it is naturally 
larger during the period of Hfe when growth is most rapid. In 
addition the body requires energy in order to perform muscular 
work and to produce heat to maintain the temperature of the 
body at its normal level (98-4° F.), and this energy is derived 
from the proximate principles of food, the proteins, carbohydrates 
and fats. 

* See " Monographs on Biochemistry," published by Longmans, 
Greon & Co. 



It is convenient and usual in questions of nutrition to measure 
energy in terms of lieat production since work is convertible 
into heat and may be measured in these terms. The unit of 
quantity of heat is termed a calorie and is the amount of heat 
required to raise the temperature of one gram of water through 
one degree Centigrade (actually from 15° C. to 16° C). In nutri- 
tion the amount of energy required is so great that inconveniently 
large numbers would be required to express it in terms of calories, 
consequently the kilocalorie or large calorie is used ; this unit 
is 1,000 calories and represents the amount of heat necessary 
to raise one kilogram of water from 15° C. to 16°. C. In dietetics 
the term Calorie is frequently used for shortness instead of the 
term Idlocalorie and is spelt with a capital initial letter to indicate 
that it represents the larger of the two heat units. 

The amount of energy required by the body has been the 
subject of very extensive investigation ; it naturally depends 
upon a variety of circumstances, such as the size of the individual, 
the amount of physical work done, and the loss of heat from the 
body, which in turn is afifected by such factors as surrounding 
temperature, amount of clothing, &c. The following are 
approximate daily energy requirements expressed in Calories 
for different classes of workers as estimated by Atwater.* 

Energy Value 
in Calories. 



Man without muscular work ... 2,700 

Man with hght muscular work - - - 3,000 

Man Av-ith moderate muscular work - - 3,500 

JMan with hard muscular work - - - 4,500 

It is obvious that size and weight of the body must influence 

its energy needs and these factors must be taken into account 

in assessing energy requirements. Rubner gives the following 

data which indicate the energy requirements of men of various 

weights whilst doing Mght workf : — 



Weight, 
in kilograms. 


Total Calories. 


Calories 
per kilogram. 


80 (12 St. 8 lb.) 
70 (11 St. 1b.) 
60 (9 St. 6 lb.) 
50 (7 St. 12 lb.) 
40 (6 St. 4 1b.) 


2,864 
2,631 
2,368 
2,102 
1,810 


35-8 
37-6 
39-5 
42-0 
45-2 



It will be noticed that although the heavier men require 
a larger absolute amount of energy, the amount of energy per 
kilogram of weight which they need is less than in the case of 
hghter men. The area of the surface of the body and conse- 

* U.S. Dept. of Agriculture (Office of Experiment Stations) Bulletin 
No. 21. 1895. /SeeaZso amplified table, Bull. No. 84 (1900). 

t Rubner : von Levden's " Handbuch der Emahrimgstherapie." 
1903. Bd. 1. p. 153. 

z 15893 B 



quently the amount of heat lost from it is relatively greater 
in small men than in large men and to meet this loss a relatively 
greater supply of energy is necessary. 

The Food (War) Committee of the Royal Society has devoted 
considerable attention to the question of energy requirements, 
and on the basis of certain experiments* provisionally adopted 
the following scalef : — 

Occupation. Food Requirements. 



Tailor 
Bookbinder 
Shoemaker 
^letal Worker - 
Painter - 
Cai"penter 
Stone Mason - 
Woodcutter 



2,750 Calories. 
3,100 
3,150 
3.500 
3,600 
3,500 
4,850 
5,o00 

Attention was drawn to the scanty experimental data available 
for framing these estimates and the consequent need of caution 
in using them. 

The usual estimate of the energy requirements of a woman 
as compared with a man is about four-fifths of the amount of 
the man's requirements. Obviously this is a general or average 
estimate and it may be exceeded in particular instances depending 
ujDon environment and occupation. 

^^ In children a computation of energy requirements is rendered 
more difficult by two factors. In the first place growth and 
metabohsm are more active than in the adult, and secondly 
whilst children do not perform muscular work which is easily 
measurable they are in a constant state of muscular activity which 
is of great value for healthy development. The degree of this 
activity seems to depend upon the amount of food taken ; activity 
dechnes if food is withheld or diminished. 

In the following table are given the net energy requirements of 
children compared Avith the average man and woman, together with 
the relative requirements of each class expressed as co-efficients. 





Energy 






Requii-ements, 


Coefficients. 






in Calories. 




Average man ..... 


3,000 


10 


Average woman ..... 


2,500 


0-83 


Children 0-6 years (both sexes) - 


1,500 


0-5 


Children 6-10 years (both sexes) 


2,100 


0-7 


Children 10-14 years (both sexes) 


2,500 


0-83 


Females, 14 years and upwards 


2,500 


0-83 


Males, 14 years and upwards 


3,000 


10 



* Becker and Hamalainen: Skand. Archiv. fiir Physiologie 31, p. 198, 
1914. 

t Report on the Food Requirements of Man, by the Food (\Var) 
-Committee, Royal Society, March 1919. 



The caloric values given represent the actual energy output 
of the individual ; to meet this output the food must supply 
the same amount of utiHsable energy. This depends upon the 
proportion of the food which is actually digested and assimilated, 
and since the loss due to incomplete digestion is generally taken 
to be about 10 per cent, the actual energy value of the food con- 
sumed should be about 10 per cent, greater than the energy 
requirements of the body. This adjustment has been made in 
tlie following table which gives the approximate energy value 
of the food required. 



Calories 



s. 



Children, 0-6 years ----- 1,650 

6-10 „----- 2,300 

10-14 „----- 2,750 

Females, 14 years and upwards - - - 2,750 

Males, 14 „ ,, - , - 3,300 

Now the energy requirements of the body can only be met 
by the energy sup^Dhed in food, and it follows that if the body 
is to maintain weight the amount of food ingested must be 
sufficient to furnish energy requirements. In any attempt 
therefore to estimate the sufficiency of a diet the amount of 
energy which it will supply must be ascertained since no diet 
which does not furnish enough energy to meet the requirements 
of the body can be regarded as adequate. 

x\s already stated the energy of food is derived from its three 
" proximate j^rinciples " or great classes of organic food- stuff con- 
stituents, the proteins, carbohydrates and fats ; it is therefore 
important to know what amount of energy these substances are 
capable of yielding. Much work has been done on this subject, 
and the follomng " standard values " which have been widely 
used throughout the world in determining the energy value of a 
mixed diet may be taken as sufficiently accurate for practical 
purposes : — 

1 gram of jDrotein will furnish 4 • 1 Calories. 
1 ,, ,, tat ,, ,, 9*o ,, 

1 ,, ,, carbohydrates ,, 4-1 „ 

When the composition of any article of food in regard to its 
protein, fat and carbohydrate content has been ascertained 
by analysis it is an easy matter to determine by simple calculation 
from the foregoing standard values the amount of energy which 
any given quantity of the food-stu£E in question is caj)able of 
supplying. Very commonly the amount of energy available 
is expressed in terms of Calories per pound or sometimes per 
kilogram of food material. Atwater* has pubhshed tables in 
which the composition and energy values of a large number of 

* U.S. Department of Agriculture (Office of Experiment Stations), 
Bulletin Xo 2S. 1899. 

B2 



8 

different foods in ordinan' consumption in the United States 
are set forth. Recentl}' Phnnncr* lias compiled similar tables 
for food materials in use in this country, and in Appendix 1 an 
extract from these tables has been made in ^vhich the composition 
and ener^yj' values of some of the commoner food stuffs are 
included. 

On reference to Phmmer's tables it ^\'ill be noticed that wide 
ranges of energy values are found in certain categories of similar 
food materials such as meat and fish. In the case of meat these 
diversities are due to the different composition of meat from 
various carcases or from different parts of the same carcase 
and can in the main be ascribed to the different proportions of 
fat which the specified articles contain. Similarly fish containing 
much fat or oil, such as salmon, herring or mackerel, have a 
higher energy value than white fish such as cod, flounder or 
haddock. On the other hand certain classes of food show a 
close similarity in energy value, for instance, most of the cereals 
and pulses possess an energy value in the neighbourhood of 
1,600 Calories per pound. 

An examj^le of a typical diet in which the energy value of 
each item has been calculated from tables of energy values is 
given in Appendix 2. 

The amount of energy in food which can be purchased for 
a given sum of mone}-, for instance, a penny, affords a useful 
measure of the money value of food so far as energy supply 
is concerned. The energy value obtainable for a pennj' can be 
arrived at by di%'iding the caloric value per pound of any article 
of food by its price in pence per pound. 



3. The Relative Proportions of the " Proximate 
Principles " in a Diet. 

Although each of the proximate principles of food is capable 
of supplying energy to the body it is not practicable (for reasons 
which will be evident later ^vhen the functions of each of the 
proximate principles are considered in more detail) to rely upon 
any one of them exclusively as a source of energy. Apart from 
the mere supply of energy each of the three great classes of food- 
stuff's has important duties to perform which require the 
presence of each of them in any diet which is to be regarded as 
satisfactory for nutrition. 

A very large amount of work has been done in an endeavour 
to ascertain what are the most suitable projDortions in which the 
proximate principles should be present in a diet suppl}dng an 
adequate amount of energy. Much of this work has been sta- 
tistical in nature, that is to say, conclusions as to requirements 
have been deduced from the examination of the customary 

* " Analyses and Energy Values of Foods," bv R. H. A. Plimmer, 
published by H.M, Stationery Oftice, 1921. 



9 

diets of .various classes of people. In the following table the 
conclusions of Voit, Rubner and Atwater who have devoted special 
attention to this subject are summarised. 

Standard Dietaries for a Man of 70 Kilograms {Weights in 

Grams). 





Voit. 


Rubner. 


Atwater. 


Light Work — 








Protein-' 


— 


123 


100 


Fat 


— 


46 


* 


Carbohydrates ... - 


— 


377 


* 


Energy value (Calories) - 


— 


2,445 


2,700 


3IEDIU5I Work — 








Protein ----.. 


118 


127 


125 


Fat 


56 


52 


* 


Carbohydi-ates . . . . 


500 


509 


* 


Energy value (Calories) - 


3,055 


2,868 


3,400 


Hard Work — 








Protein ------ 


U5 


165 


150 


Fat 


100 


70 


* 


Carbohydrates . . . . 


500 


565 


* 


Energj' value (Calories) - 


3,574 


3,362 


4,150 



As might be expected, the results obtained by these investi- 
gators are not in strict accordance. Divergencies are noticeable 
in the amount of protein and also in the proportion of carbo- 
hydrates and fats and, in the table in which Atwater's conclusions 
are given, no attempt is made to differentiate between carbo- 
hydrates and fats so long as sufficient is suppHed to ensure the 
daily energy reciuirements. In point of fact the proportions 
of the proximate principles in a diet in individual cases may 
and do differ appreciably from these standards without 
affecting the nutritional value of the diet, if the total 
energy supphed is adec[uate. Much attention has been devoted 
to ascertaining the significance in nutrition of the proximate 
principles of food and the Hmits within which they may vary 
in a diet without impairing the value of the diet for nutritional 
purposes. The investigation of this subject presents great 
difficulties, and the power of the body to adapt itself within Ande 
limits to diets var;ydng greatly in composition adds considerably 
to the complexity of the problem. The sahent features however 
which emerge from the mass of work which has been done on 
the subject may be succinctly stated in general terms. 

Proteins. 

The proteins are complicated nitrogenous substances upon 
which the body rehes for its supply of nitrogen necessary for 
life and growth or in other words for the maintenance of meta- 

* Carbohj-drates and fats to make up the required energy value. 



10 

holism.* Proteins therefore are essential constituents of all 
dietaries. Proteins are \\ell known as the chief soHd constituent 
of flesh (meat) but they are present in the tissues of all animals 
and vegetables, and such of these as are used for food are a source 
of supply of protein. The chief functions of proteins are to 
supply material required for the repair of waste of the 
tissues of the body and for their growth. In addition, of 
course, the protein consumed and metaboHsed in the bodj' 
jdelds energy, but in an ordinary mixed diet containing a hberal 
amount of carbohydrate no appreciable amount of the energy 
of tlie protein is utilised in the performance of muscular work. 
Tliis does not mean that protein is incapable of furnishing the 
energy for muscular Mork ; in the absence of carbohydrate 
and fat, it is possible to obtain the energy for bodily needs from 
protein alone, but in the human bod}^ it would not be practicable 
to rely on protein for this purpose since very large quantities 
would be required which, even if they could be consumed, would 
put an excessive strain upon the digestive and excretory organs. 
The daily requirements of protein are not therefore a function 
of the daily output of muscular work as is the case in respect 
of energy requirements, which are in the main derived from fats 
and carbohydrates, and the question as to how much jjrotein 
a dietary should contain requires consideration along other and 
different Hnes. 

The conclusions reached by Voit, Rubner and Atwater as to 
the amounts of protein needed were to a large extent based upon 
observations of the quantities actually consumed by various 
persons, but it by no means follows that the values arrived at 
lep resent the actual physiological needs. The protein contents 
of the dietaries investigated depend on the nature of the food 
consumed by tlu? classes under observation and this in its turn is 
largety determined by a variety of considerations such as the kind 
of food available, personal likes and national custom, chmate, 
work and the purchasing power of the individual. 

* Metabolism may be defined briefly as the chemical changes which 
occur in the tissues of a li\nng organism. Metabolism is a concomitant of 
all life and growth, and is the soiuce of the energy liberated in the body 
for the purposes of work and production of heat. It is sometimes 
convenient to regard these chemical changes as of two types: (1) in 
which simple chemical substances are built up or synthetized into more 
complex substances; and (2) in which complex chemical substances 
are broken down into simpler substances. To the former the term 
anaholism, and to the the latter the term katabolism, is applied. In the 
building up of the body tissues anabolic changes predominate ; the 
energy and heat required by the body result from the katabolic changes. 

On account of the cardinal importance of the nitrogen content of 
pi'otein, and the ease with which the metabolism of protein can be 
deteiTiiined in tei-ms of its nitrogen content, it is frequently convenient, in 
dietetic investigations, to refer to protein in terms of its nitrogen content 
Tlie nitrogen content of protein in many food-stufTs varies only slightly, 
so that if the amoiint of nitrogen is determined, the approximate amount 
of protein which it represents can be readily calculated by multiplying 
the nitrogen by an appropriate factor, usually 6-2.5. 



11 

In this connection it may be remarked that information 
regarding the dietetic habits of our people, the amount and charac- 
ter of the food materials habitually eaten by individuals at different 
ages and in different occupations is meagre and unsatisfactory. 
A considerable number of diets in selected classes of communities 
have been compiled and analysed both in the United States and 
in this country.* Although the actual numbers, especially in the 
United States, were large, it is still true that what is now needed 
is an extension of these studies so as to obtain a compre- 
hensive survey of actually existing conditions which would throw 
more hght upon the protein and energy intake of different classes 
of the population and furnish a rational basis for any action 
which may be necessary. 

In recent years numerous investigations have shown that the 
body can preserve health and vigour on a diet containing less 
protein than the standards of Voit, Rubner and Atwater. In 
some cases amounts as low as 40 grams of protein a day appeared 
bo be sufificient to meet protein requirements. 

Although such small amounts of protein seemed to be 
adequate to preserve health and even vigour in the cases under 
investigation, man}^ competent observers regard it as undesirable 
to reduce the protein supply to such low hmits on the ground 
that the margin of safety is too small to enable the organism 
to cope satisfactorily wdth the various adverse circumstances 
in which it may find itself placed from time to time. It is 
considered that one of the remote consequences of a diet extremely 
low in protein might be a lowered resistance to disease and general 
diminution in physical tone ; furthermore, that persons accus- 
tomed to a very low protein intake would be unable to assimilate 
an increased amount when necessary, as in convalescence from 
wasting disease. 

Whilst, therefore, the adoption of diets excessively low in 
protein is not advocated, there appears to be httle doubt that 
large numbers of people maintain good health and vigour on 
diets containing appreciably less protein than the amounts given 
in the standard diets of Voit, Rubner and Atwater. 

In an investigation into the nitrogen consumption of seven 
laboratory workers, the average daily nitrogen excretion of each 
individual amounted to 13 "5 gms. of nitrogen, equivalent to an 
intake of 93 gms. of protein. f A point of practical interest in 
this connection arises in regard to a sociological investigation 
by Rowntree,J at York, in which Atwater's standard of 
125 gms. of protein was adopted as a minimum below ^^•hich a 

* Many of the results are summarised in the Medical Research Com- 
mittee's Special Report Series, No. 13, 1918, and details of the United 
States investigations can be found in the series of bulletins published 
by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

t Hamill, J. M., and Schryver, 8. B. : Froc. Physiol. Soc, 24 March 
1906. 

A Study of Town Life," B. S. Rowntree. 



12 

condition of poverty might be inferred. The lowest protein 
vahie encountered was 89 gnis. a day, which is verj' little below 
the amount found adequate for the laboratory workers referred 
to above. Caution is. therefore, necessary in utihsing protein 
consumption as an index of underfeeding. 

It is an interesting fact that the protein content of food- 
stuffs in general is such that, in any ordinary mixed diet which 
sui)phes an adequate amount of energy for the average man, 
the protein content is somewhere in the neighbourhood of 
100 gms. or more, so that in an ordinary mixed diet which 
suffices to meet daily energy needs, no anxiety need be felt as 
to the amount of protein provided. This conclusion has been 
expressed in the aphorism " Take care of the calories and the 
protein ^v^ll take care of itself." With certain reservations in 
regard to the quahty of the protein wliich will be considered 
immediately, this represents a good working rule. 

Tliere still remain for consideration certain very important 
facts in regard to protein wliich research has recently brought 
to hght. In what has already been said, protein has been 
regarded as an entity ; stress must now be laid on the fact that 
Ju.st as all flesh is not the same flesh, so all protein is not the 
same protein. Proteins differ very greatty in cliemical composi- 
tion according to the source from which they are derived, and 
this difference in their constitution affects their beha-sdour in 
metabohsm and their utility from a nutritive point of view. 
From a chemical standpoint the protein molecule would appear 
to consist in essentials of amino-acids united together, or 
" conjugated "' as it is commonly called. The various proteins 
differ from one another in regard to the nature and amount of 
the various amino-acid groupings which enter into their constitu- 
tion. Thus, for instance, the two amino-acid groupings, trypto- 
])liane and lysin, which are found in a variety of proteins, are 
lacking in the protein, zein, which is the chief protein of 
maize. Variations in constitution such as that indicated exert 
a profound influence upon the suitability of individual proteins 
for ])urposes of nutrition. Experimental evidence shows that 
during digestion proteins are broken down into amino-acids, 
and that it is these acids wliich are utilised by the tissues 
to meet the various needs of the body's metabolism. It would, 
therefore, appear that no protein can be regarded as capable of 
.satisfactorily meeting the requirements of nutrition unless it 
furnishes a sufficient quantity of the various amino-acid grou])ings 
necessary for the needs of the human body. 

There are indications that tryptophane is an amino grouping 
of great importance in metabohsm, and on that account it might 
be expected that zein, the jirotein of maize, from which the 
trypto])hane gnnqMng is absent, would be inadequate for meeting 
the body's requirements in regard to protein. Actual experiment 
has shown that this is the case. " The mere nitrogen content of 
a diet is therefore not necessarily a sufficient criterion as to the 



13 

adequacy of the protein supply. A measure of the true value 
of proteins in nutrition appears to be their capacity to meet 
the organism's requirements in respect of the various amino-acids 
necessary for normal metaboHsm. 

Attempts have been made to measure the nutritional values 
of proteins from diflferent sources by determining their relative 
power in preventing loss of tissue protein from the body, and to 
these values the term " biological value of protein " has been 
appHed.* 

Up to the present these values have not been accurately 
determined, but the results already obtained would seem to 
demonstrate that proteins derived from animal sources are 
superior as conservers of body-protein to proteins derived from 
vegetable sources. The conception of the biological value of 
proteins has already led to important practical results. Evidence 
is accumulating which appears to indicate that one of the factors 
(if not the only factor) in the causation of the disease known as 
pellagra is a diet in which the protein is of low biological value. 
If this proves to be the case then pellagra may be regarded as 
a manifestation of disordered metabohsm and nutrition conse- 
quent upon a diet defective in some essential particular, and may 
be included in the category of so-called " deficiency diseases." 
It is claimed that the symptoms can be abolished and the disease 
cured by the administration of milk, the protein of which has a 
high biological value. This is of significance in connection "with 
the nutritive value of milk as an article of diet; the high bio- 
logical value of the protein of milk makes it a food eminently 
suitable for the young where growth is rapid and the demands 
of the tissues for a supply of appropriate protein is urgent. 

Carbohydrates and Fats. 

The chief carbohydrates which the body obtains in food and 
utilises in metabolism are the starches and sugars (cane sugar, 
lactose, glucose and fructose). The starches during digestion 
are converted into sugar (glucose) and absorbed as such. Fats, 
whether derived from animal or vegetable sources, usually 
contain as their main constituents three types of fat, stearin, 
palmitin and olein, and the proportion in which these are present 
largely determines the consistency and melting point of the 
whole fat. When a considerable proportion of stearin is present, 
the fat is firm and hard, e.g., mutton fat; when olein pre- 
dominates, the fat is soft or liquid (oil), e.g., oHve oil. The carbo- 
hydrates and fats are the cliief sources from which the body 
obtains the energy required for work and the production and 
maintenance of bodily heat. Within hmits, carbohydrates and 
fats are interchangeable in isodynamic equivalents. f That is to 

♦Thomas, K. : Archiv fiir Physiologie (Rubner), 1909, p. 219, 

t J^^^G iaodjTiarnic equivalents of carbohydrates and fats are the 

quantities of each which will furnish the same amount of energj-. 

Approximately 2^ parts by weight of carbohydrate supply the same energy 
X 15808 C 



14 

say, carbohydrates niaj' replace fats and vice versa in the pro- 
portion of about 2;^^ parts by weight of carbohydrate to 1 part 
by weight of fat. But it is not possible to replace the \\hole of 
the carbohydrate in a diet by fat, or to rely upon carbohydrate 
to the exclusion of fat Avithout certain disadvantages in the 
general metaboUsm of the body. 

In addition to the mere supply of energy, carbohydrates 
possess the property of enabhng the body to satisfy its nitrogen 
requirements on a much smaller protein intake than would be 
the case in a diet in wliich carbohydrates are replaced by fat. 
To this property the term " protein-sparing " is frequently 
applied, and carbohydrates possess it to a greater degree than 
any other food material. It would appear that partial rei^lace- 
ment of carbohydrate by fat in the diet may have Uttle or no 
influence on the amount of protein metabolism, and it is stated 
that protein metabohsm is not appreciably affected until the 
amount of fat is increased to such an extent that less than 
10 per cent, of the total energy is suppHed by carbohydrates.* 
When the proportion of fat in the diet reaches this jjoint, fat 
metabolism does not proceed normally, acetone appears in the 
urine, and a condition of acidosis supervenes. When all carbo- 
hydrate is replaced by fat, still more acetone is produced and 
excreted, and the condition of acidosis becomes more marked. 

Recent experimental inquiry seems to indicate that the 
human body performs work more economically on carbohydrate 
than upon fat, and when the work is sufficiently severe it is 
performed with greater difficulty upon fat and occasions greater 
fatigue, f 

Although evidence points to the conclusion that metabohsm 
becomes disturbed when too large a proportion of carbohydrate 
is replaced by fat, it would appear desirable that some fat should 
always find a place in the dietary, since there are indications that 
just as a certain proportion of carbohydrate is required to secure 
the proper utiUsation of fat, so also some fat would seem to be 
required for the adequate utihsation of carbohydrate in the diet, 
but at present Uttle is known as to the manner in which this 
effect is produced, or the amount of fat which it is desirable to 
include in the diet. Chmatic conditions, manual labour and racial 
habits probably exercise considerable influence upon the pro- 
portion of fat wliich may customarily be taken in the diet; in 
some cases as small a quantity as 20 gms. per day seems to meet 
requirements; in other cases, where much work is done at low 



(calories) as one part by weight of fat, and consequently these are the 
isodynamic equivalents of the two proximate principles in question. 
The converse of the isodynamic equivalents is the amount of energj' 
(calories) furnished by 1 grm. of carbohydrate and by 1 grm. of fat 
respectively as given in table on page 7. 

* Zeller, H. : Archiv fiir Phyaiologie (Rubner), 1914, p. 213. 

t Krogh, A., and Lindhard, J, : Biochernical Journal, 1920, xiv, 
p. 290. 



15 

temperatures, for instance, lumbering in Canada during winter, 
large quantities of fat are ap])arently utilised M'ith ease. Present 
opinion is inclined to the view that it is desirable for the average 
individual in the British Isles to take at least 75 gms. (2-64 ozs.) 
of fat in the daily diet. 

It is probable that there exists some ratio between fats and 
carboltydrates, possibly varying according to the circumstances 
and conditions in which an individual finds himself, which would 
best suit ideal nutrition, but knowledge is not yet sufficiently 
advanced to enable any definite pronouncement to be made on 
this point. 



4. Mineral Requirements. 

Very httle is at present known in regard to the actual 
requirements of the body in regard to mineral substances. Since 
mineral substances are both absorbed and excreted by the 
intestine, it is impossible by a mere comparison of intake and 
output to ascertain how much has really been absorbed, quite 
apart from the more important question as to how much has 
undergone assimilation. Although practically no data are forth- 
coming as to the total mineral requirements of the body, indica- 
tions have been obtained as to the amounts of certain elements 
such as phosphorus, calcium and iron, which may be needed. 
It has been possible, in the case of certain inorganic elements, to 
ascertain the equilibrium point at which their intake in the food 
is equal to their output in the excretions while the amount of 
the elements in question in the body remains constant. It does 
not, however, follow that such equihbrium indicates the minimum 
upon which the body can subsist, nor conversely does it follow 
that the attainment of equihbrium necessarily imphes an adequate 
supply of the elements in question. Growth is most active during 
the first year of hfe, and after this period it is probable that the 
mineral requirements of the body become relatively less. 

The phosphorus requirements of the body have been the 
subject of a large number of investigations, and have been 
variously stated as from about 1 to 2 gms. of phosphorus per 
day. The large variations which have been observed in the 
requirements of phosphorus would seem to depend, in ])art at 
any rate, upon the form in which the phosphorus is combined in 
the food; it would seem that phosphorus is more valuable for 
nutrition in certain combinations than in others. 

As regards iron, the requirements of the body appear to be 
met by about 10 milligrams of this element daily, but it would 
seem desirable that more than this amount should be present 
in the daily diet.* 

* U.S. Department of Agriculture (Office of Experiment Stations), 
Bulletin 185. 

C 2 



16 

The requirements of the adult body for calcium have been 
variously given at 0-6 gm. of calcium (0-84 gm. of lime), 0*68 
to 0-8G gm. of calcium (0-95 to 1-2 gms. of hme), 0-7 gm. of 
lime, I'o gms. of Ume, and by Bunge at 3-8 gms. of lime daily. 
Albu and Xeuberg consider that any diet supplying less than 
I to 1-5 gms. of hme daily is poor in calcium.* 

The above quantities must be taken as indicating only the 
order of magnitude of the reciuirements of the body in respect 
of the elements mentioned ; much more work requires to be done 
on the subject of the mineral needs of the body before definite 
pronouncement on this subject can be made. 

It has been shown in animals that, even when the phosphorus 
in food is adequate, deficiency in calcium leads to abnormalities 
in skeletal growth (osteoporosis ).f It would seem to be important, 
therefore, that during the period of skeletal growth, the CaO : 
PgOg ratio should be high. In wheat, and all, forms of flour 
derived from it, the above ratio is low. 

There are indications that when there is a deficiency in 
the supply of organically combined phosphorus, the body is 
capable of making good the deficiency, to some extent at any 
rate, from inorganically combined phosphorus. J It is probable 
also that the same is true in regard to calcium. 

It would appear that many diets, for instance, those in 
which wheat products and potatoes bulk largely, contain little 
calcium; the addition of oatmeal or peas and beans improves 
the calcium content, whilst milk very greatly increases the 
supply. An analysis of different diets shows that those in 
which milk forms an appreciable item are much richer in calcium 
than those in which this important article of diet is lacking. 
The value of millv in this respect, especially during the period 
of growth, is apparent ; it corrects the calcium deficiency which 
is charact^jristic of many cereals which naturally must enter 
largely into most diets. A table showing the mineral content of 
some common food-stuffs is given in Appendix 3. 

5. Accessory Food Factors, or Vitamins. 

Research during recent years has shown that the human 
organism cannot maintain normal health and metaboHsm on a 
diet consisting merelj^ of protein, fat. carbohydrate, inorganic 
salts and water, even though the amount of energy supplied is 
adequate and the protein sufficient in quantity and of suitable 
quaUty. It has been known for some years that pigeons, when 
fed on pohshed rice — that is to say, rice which has been deprived 

* Albu, A., and Neuberg, C. : Mineralstoffwechsel (Julius Springer), 
Berlin, 1906, p. 113. 

t Ingle, H. : Journal Agric. Science, 3, p. 22. 

X Hart, E. B., McCollum, E. V., and Fuller, J. C4. : American Journ. 
Physiol, 23, p. 246. Holsti, O. : Ska7ulin. Archiv fur Physiologie, 23. 
p. 143. 



17 

of its germ and outer coatings or bran* — begin soon to suffer 
from disturbed metabolism and disordered nutrition, wJiich 
ultimately manifest tliemselves in the diseased condition known 
as polyneuritis. The addition of rice bran to the diet of polished 
rice prevents the condition or cures it when it has supervened. 
It was also found that if mice were fed, not on natural foods, 
but upon mixtures of purified proteins, fats, and carbohydrates 
such as casein, egg-albumin, vitelhn, potato-starch, wheat-starch 
and fat, together with the proper salts, their offspring were 
difficult to rear, and no living young could be obtained from the 
latter, even though all energy and jjrotein requirements were 
adequately provided for. No satisfactory interpretation of 
these results was forthcoming until Professor Gowland Hopkins, 
of Cambridge University, suggested an explanation which 
accounted for the observed facts and opened up a new field of 
research which is being exj^lored with growing success and gives 
promise of further discoveries of fundamental importance in the 
study of dietetics. Hopkins fed young rats on a diet of pure 
caseinogen, fat, carbohydrate and salts, and found that the 
rats soon ceased to grow and ultimately died. But by adding 
only a trace of fresh milk to the diet, normal growth and develop- 
ment were assured. The quantity of milk added was so small 
that its constituents were negligible as regards energy or material 
for tissue formation supplied by the milk. The total solids 
added to the diet by the milk did not exceed 0-08 gm. per 
d&.y (later experiments have shoAvn that the bulk of this is 
inactive), yet the daily increase in weight of the rats amounted 
to half a gram per rat. It was proved also that neither the 
protein, the salts, nor the lactose of the milk were responsible 
for the readjustment of the gravely disturbed metabohsm and 
disordered nutrition, and, furthermore, waterj^ extracts of other 
food-stuff's, such as mangolds, were found capable of producing 
a similar beneficial effect. The conclusion was unavoidable 
that, in certain food-stuffs, there was some substance or material, 
hitherto unidentified, which was capable of profoundly affecting 
metaljolism, and without which the organism could not be 
properly nourished even though supplies of j)rotein and energy 
in the diet w^ere ample. It was obvious that this hitherto 
unrecognised substance in milk need be present in the diet only 
in remarkably minute amount, and must possess extraordinary 
potency. As a result of further investigation it became clear 
that there were other substances of similar nature which were 
responsible for proper nutrition and the maintenance of normal 
metabohsm and development, and that, when these were absent 
from the diet, imtrition and metabohsm became defective and 
ultimately manifested their defects in definite symptoms 
of disease. These substances are, therefore, essential for the 

* For an account of the milling of rice, see Dr. J. M. Hamill's Report 
to the Local Government Board on " facing " and other methods of 
preparing rice for sale, Reports of Inspectors of Foods, No. 8, lft09. 



18 

maintenance of normal growtli, health, and even life itself. 
For all substances of this categon-, Hopldns i:)roposed the term 
" accessor}' food factors," and, later on, the alternative term 
" Wtamins " came to be appHed to them. 

The nature of these substances is not yet understood, and 
httle is known as to their chemical and phj^sical properties or 
behaviour. Their presence or absence in any particular food-stuff 
can only be inferred from the effects produced on nutrition by 
the administration of the food-stuff in question ; that is to say, 
they have not yet been isolated as definite entities whose 
indi\idual characteristics can be determined. 

No satisfactory means are at present available for estimating 
quantitatively the amount in which vitamins are present in food 
materials, or the amount of each particular vitamin which is 
necessary to maintain normal metabolism and develoi)ment in 
any particular animal or at any definite age-];)eriod. In this con- 
nection the most that can be said is, that food-stuffs ^^hich in 
small quantities are able to prevent those disturbances in meta- 
bohsm which characterise deficiency in a particular vitamin are 
richer in that vitamin than other food-stuffs of which larger 
amounts are necessary to prevent the occurrence of similar 
disturbances. Progress, however, is being made in the develop- 
ment of methods of quantitative estimation of accessory food 
factors. 

Much of the work on vitamins has been done on small, rapidly- 
growing and prohfic animals, such as rats, which form admirable 
test objects in regard to the adequacy of various exj^erimental 
diets. But such animals are hable to display pecuharities of 
behaviour in regard to diets, and seem to be able to withstand 
certain deficiencies that are not tolerated by other animals. 
Thus the rat appears to be extremely resistant to deficiency of 
antiscorbutic vitamin, which in other animals results in the 
development of symptoms of scurvy. Considerations such as 
these have to be borne in mind, and due allowance made when 
aj)plying results obtained from animal experiments to man. It 
is possible also that degrees of deficiency in diet which would 
unfavourably affect rapidly growing animals may be without 
effect upon animals which develop more slowly, or which have 
reached the adult stage. There are many points such as these 
on M'hich further information is required, and can only be 
obtained as a result of much patient and laborious research; 
until such information is forthcoming, judgment must be 
suspended. 

What is already known in regard to vitamins indicates their 
car(Unal iujportance in nutrition, but it may here be remarked 
that in some quarters there appears to be a tendency to invoke 
unduly the vitamin hypothesis, and to make deductions and 
diaw conclusions which information at present available ia 
insufficient to justify. Present knowledge in regard to vitamins 



|- 



19 

necessitates caution in its application to far-reaching practical 
problem's in dietetics if the error of building too vast a super- 
structure on an insufficient foundation is to bo avoided. 



6. Varieties of Accessory Food Factors, or Vitamins. 

Research has so far disclosed the existence of three distinct 
accessory food factors, or vitamins, which are recognised by their 
special properties of j)reventing or curing certain disorders of 
metabohsm and nutrition which ultimately manifest themselves 
as definite symptom complexes, and are then known as " deficiency 
diseases." Examples of such " deficiency diseases " are beriberi 
and scurv3% in both of which lack of a special vitamin in the diet 
appears to be the determining factor. In all cases of vitamin 
deficiencj'^ there is evidence which indicates that before nutritional 
disturbance has become so considerable as to produce the charac- 
teristic symptoms of a deficiency disease, minor and more subtle 
metabohc derangements which do not manifest themselves so 
plainly may occur and may tend to produce, amongst other 
disturbances, defective development and lowered resistance to 
infective disease. Further investigation, however, is necessary 
before definite and detailed pronouncements can be made on 
these points. 

The three accessory food factors, or vitamins, at present 
known may conveniently be named according to the deficiency 
disease which each appears to be able to prevent or to cure, or at 
least to be a factor in its prevention or cure. Two of these 
vitamins have alternative names, which were originally apphed 
to them by early investigators, and by which they are frequently 
described ; there is evidence that these alternative names actually 
connote the same vitamin in each case, and they are accordingly 
given below in brackets.* 

The three known vitamins are : — 

(1) The anti-neuritic or anti-beriberi vitamin (also 
termed " water-soluble B " vitamin). 

(2) The anti-rachitic vitamin (also termed " fat-soluble 
A " vitamin). 

(3) The antiscorbutic vitamin. 

7. Properties of the Vitamins. 

1. The anti-neuritic (water-soluble B) vitamin prevents the 
occurrence of beriberi in man and analogous diseases (poly- 
neuritis) in animals. It is also necessary to ensure satisfactory 
growth and development in young animals. The anti-neuritic 
vitamin withstands drjdng for long periods of time, and this is 

* A full account of the known accessory food factors is given in the 
Medical Research Committee's Special Report Series, No. 38, 1919, 



20 

consonant with tlic fcact that its principal sources are dry food- 
ytufYs. It also dis])lays considerable resistance to heat ; it with- 
stands prolonged exposure to a temperature of 100° C, but at 
hiplier temperatures, e.g., 120° C, its destruction proceeds more 
raj)idly. This vitamin can be extracted by alcohol, and also by 
water* from most of the food-stuffs in wliich it occurs; it is 
probable that its solubihty is variable, depending upon the 
character of the food material in which it is deposited. The 
anti-neuritic vitamin is readily adsorbed from solutions upon 
the surface of various substances, such as charcoal, &c., l)ut it has 
not been isolated as an entity. 

2. The anti-rachitic (fat soluble A) vitamin is also necessary 
for normal growth and development to occur in young animals. 
In young rats, not onlj^ does growth cease when the anti- 
rachitic factor is lacking in the diet, but the animals become 
very susceptible to bacterial infection. This lowering of resistance 
to infective disease manifests itself in many cases by the appear- 
ance of an infection of the eye Avhich seems to be of the nature 
of a xerophthalmia. 8o characteristic is this manifestation that 
some observers regard it as almost a specific result of a deficiency 
of the anti-rachitic vitamin. 

Rickets, the chief manifestations of which are abnormal and 
defective bone formation, probably results from the interplay of 
more than one causal factor. Such information as is at present 
available points to defective nutrition (possibly prenatal as well 
as postnatal) as having an important bearing upon the production 
of rickets. Certain experimental e^^dence would seem to indicate 
that deficiency of fat-soluble A vitamin in the diet is one of the 
causes of the defective nutrition which ultimatel}' manifests itself 
as rickets, but opinion is not unanimous on this point. 

The anti-rachitic vitamin (now considered as probably identical 
with lat-soluble A vitamin) cannot be extracted from animal 
tissues by water, but is soluble in fat and in substances which 
dissolve fats. This vitamin occurs in green leaves, but in this 
situation it cannot be extracted by ordinary fat solvents. Fat- 
soluljle A vitamin shows considerable resistance to the destructive 
action of heat when heated out of contact with, oxygen, but, in 
the presence of oxygen, exj)osure to moderate temperatures, e.g., 
100° C, for relatively short periods (1 to 2 hours) will result in its 
destruction. The process of destruction appears, therefore, to 
be mainly one of oxidation. 

3. The antiscorbutic vitamin possesses the power of preventing 
or curing disturbances in metabohsm which result in the disease 
known as scurvy when this vitamin is lacking in the diet. 

The antiscorbutic vitamin is soluble in water and in alcohol, 
and can be dialysed and filtered through a porcelain filter without 
appreciable loss. UnUke the anti-neuritic vitamin, it is not 
adsorbed upon the surface of fine precipitates such as colloidal 
iron, &c.. and this difference provides a method whereby anti- 
neuritic aud antiscorbutic vitamins can be separated in a solution 



21 

containing them. , The antiscorbutic vitamin is sensitive to heat, 
and is readily destroyed by boiUng. At a temperature ranging 
from 80° to 100° C. about 00 per cent, of the vitamin is destroyed 
in one hour. The vitamin appears to be especially sensitive 
to heat in alkaline media which, even at ordinary temperatures, 
exert a rapidly destructive influence upon the vitamin. Possibly 
oxidation may play a part in its destruction. 

8. Distribution of the Vitamins in Nature. 

It \A'ould appear that the animal organism is incapable of 
producing vitamins for itself, and consequently all animals are 
dependent for their supply directly or indirectly upon the 
vegetable kingdom. It follows, therefore, that any vitamins 
present in meat, fat, or other food of animal origin, must have 
been ultimately derived from vegetable sources. It is evident 
that this generalisation is of the utmost importance in connection 
Mith practical dietetic problems. 

The sources of the three known vitamins may now be 
considered in detail. 

1. The anti-neuritic (or water-soluble B) vitamin occurs in 
the seeds of plants; the chief of. these for food purposes are the 
cereals and edible pulses which consequently form one of the 
main sources of supply of the anti-neuritic vitamin. 

In cereals the vitamin is not distributed uniforml}' throughout 
the grain; the bulk of it is limited to the embrj'^o, or germ, a 
small proportion being found in the bran (the pericarp and 
aleurone layer). In wheat and rice the germ appears to contain 
from five to ten times more of the vitamin than the bran. The 
endosperm is deficient in anti-neuritic vitamin. 

In pulses the anti-neuritic vitamin appears to be uniformly 
distributed tliroughout the seed, since in these seeds the embryo 
occupies the whole bulk of the seed, its reserve food supply being 
contained within the embryo itself and not separately stored in 
endosperm as is the case in cereal grains. Eggs are rich in the 
anti-neuritic vitamin which has been found to remain unimpaired 
in dried eggs ; this indicates that the ordinary process adopted for 
drying eggs does not destroy the vitamin. 

Yeast is also rich in anti-neuritic vitamin ; commercial pre- 
parations made from yeast are largely used as a substitute for 
meat extract in the preparation of soup cubes, &c., and retain the 
vitaminic activity of the yeast unimpaired. 

Meat is relatively deficient in the anti-neuritic vitamin, but 
it seems that the offal, i.e.. internal organs, such as heart and 
liver, contain it in rather larger amounts than the " flesh " 
or skeletal muscle. Fish, milk and cheese also seem to be 
relatively poor in this vitamin. 

2. The anti-rachitic (or fat-soluble A vitamin) is found in 
certain fats of animal origin, such, for instance, as beef fat, cod- 



22 

liver oil. tlie fat of kidneys, heart muscle and liver tissues, also 
butter, milk and cream. The primary source of the vitamin is, 
however, the green leaves of plants, and it is from the consumption 
of these tliat plant-eating animals obtain the vitamin and store 
it in the fatty tissues of their bodies. The vitamin in cod-liver 
oil must similarly be presumed to have been ultimately derived 
from the tissues of algae, or sea-water green plants. 

Root vegetables in general are deficient in fat-soluble A 
vitamin (though certain of them, such as carrots, seem to 
contain appreciable amounts of this vitamin), and so also are 
most oils and fats derived from plant sources, such as olive oil, 
cotton-seed oil, &c. 

It is obvious that the fat of plant-eating animals may show 
great variation in its content of fat-soluble A vitamin according 
to whether the animals' diet included green plants or not. Thus 
in the winter time, if green food is lacking, the milk of cows and 
butter made from it are deficient in fat-soluble A vitamin, 
similarly lard obtained from pigs fed on a diet from which green 
food is absent will lack fat-soluble A vitamin. 

The processes used in extracting and preparing fats may 
impair or destroy any vitamin which they already contain ; the 
vitamin content of lard may .be impaired in this way, even 
though the pig had been fed in such a maimer that its fat con- 
tained the vitamin. Oils are nowadays converted into solid 
fats by the process of hydrogenation, and in this process the 
vitamin which they may contain is destroyed. Such hardened 
fats may be employed in the manufacture of margarine. 

3. The antiscorbutic vitamin is found in the green leaves of 
plants, especially members of the natural order Cruciferae, e.g., 
cabbage. When it is difficult to obtain a supply of green 
vegetables, seeds, such as mustard and cress, which in themselves 
are devoid of antiscorbutic properties, may be germinated ; the 
seedlings are rich in antiscorbutic vitamin. Roots vary greatly 
in antiscorbutic power, swedes being superior to carrots and 
beetroots. Potatoes (tubers) and onions contain the antiscorbutic 
vitamin in appreciable amount. The vitamin is also present 
in fresh fruits ; oranges and lemons contain it in considerable 
quantity, and are superior to the lime fruit in antiscorbutic 
properties. Preserved lime juice, dried fruit and dried vegetables, 
are practically destitute of any antiscorbutic power. Both meat 
and milk have a low antiscorbutic value.. 

^). The Bearing of the foregoing Considerations upon 
THE Adequacy of Diets. 

It is clear from what has already been said that the selection 
of an a})j)rojjriate diet, which will produce the optimum results in 
nutritior., involves many considerations. All the various require- 
ments of a satisfactory- diet may be ^jrovided except in respect of 
one essential particular, for instance, fat-soluble A vitamin, and 



23 

the absence of tiiis is sufficient to render an otherwise excellent 
cliet unsuitable for normal development. It is quite possible to 
arrange a diet which is pleasing, satisfjdng, and even luxurious, 
but which is, nevertheless, unsatisfactory from a nutritive point 
of view, and will not produce the best results in regard to 
development and the maintenance of normal health. Conversely, 
it is not impossible to frame a dietary which is simple and which 
will meet all nutritional requirements in a satisfactoty way.* 

In considering the question of dietaries it is obvious that the 
most exacting demands in regard to the adequacy of dietary 
constituents will be made during the period of life in which grow^th 
is most active, and it is essential that these demands should 
be met properly in order to ensure satisfactory develox)ment, 
resistance to disease and the maintenance of health and efficiency 
in adult Hfe. The dietaries of different races of manldnd vary 
considerably in regard to individual constituents, in some, for 
instance, one type of cereal such as rice predominates, in others 
meat is rarely eaten, and in others dairy products are lacking. 
It is possible, however, to group the chief food-stuffs used by 
mankind into the following simple categories : — 

(1) Seeds, e.g., cereals and pulses. 

(2) Tubers, e.g., potatoes. 

(3) Roots, e.g., carrots, parsnips, turnips, &c. 

(4) Meat. 

(5) Leaves, e.g., cabbages and other green vegetables. 

(6) Fruits, e.g., oranges. 

(7) ]\Iilk and milk products. 

Animal exj^eriments have shown that a diet consisting exclu- 
sively of seeds is inadequate to promote growth or maintain life. 
Wheat, which may be taken as a typical seed, proves to be too 
poor in fat-soluble A idtamin and in such mineral constituents as 
calcium, sodium and chlorine, even when the whole of the wlieat 
grain is utihsed. Its protein also possesses too low a biological 
value for satisfactory nutrition. The biological value of the 
protein in a seed diet is enhanced when the diet instead of 
containing only one seed contains several different varieties, but 
even then it falls below what is desirable. 

Tubers and roots suffer from defects of a similar Idnd to those 
of seeds. The}'^ are in most cases deficient in fat-soluble A 
vitamin, and are poor in calcium, sodium and chlorine. Potatoes 
which have been peeled are also deficient in water-soluble B 
vitamin. 

Green leaves contain satisfactory amounts of the constituents 
which are deficient in the preceding groups of food-stuffs, namely, 
fat-soluble A vitamin, protein of a character suitable for supple- 
menting the defects in the protein of seeds, and also a sufficiency 

* A lucid exposition of the broader aspects of nutrition will be fomid 
in " The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition," by E. V. McColhim. (The 
MacmiJlan Company, New York, 1919.) 



24 

of mineral matter. The addition, therefore, of green leaves in 
adequate quantity to a diet of seeds, roots and tubers, would 
appear to ccmipensat^ for the defects of such a diet, and to render 
it satisfactory. Unfortunatel}^ however, for omnivorous animals, 
of which man i» one, the bulk of green vegetables which would 
probaljly be necessary to ensure an ample margin of safety 
would, in most cases, impose undue strain upon the digestive 
organs. 

Meat may be divided into two classes — (1) that derived from 
skeletal muscle, (2) that derived from internal organs, such as 
hver, kidney, pancreas, &c. The general term " offal " is 
commonly applied to meat of this second class. Skeletal muscle 
is superior to seeds mainly in respect of the higher biological 
value of its protein. Its content of fat -soluble A vitamin is not 
high, and in tliis respect it does not ajjpreciably reinforce a seed 
diet. If much fat is present, of course, the value of meat as a 
source of fat-soluble A vitamin is enhanced. Skeletal muscle, 
or meat as it is commonly called is, therefore, a useful supple 
mentary food to a diet consisting of seeds or seed products, tubers 
and roots, especially on account of its higher biological protein 
value. The glandular organs — " offal " — appear to be more 
valual)le as a source of essential constituents of the dietary 
than skeletal muscle, in so far as they contain a greater amount 
of both fat-soluble A and water-soluble B vitamins. 

Fish may be di\TLded into two classes — white fishes and oily 
fishes. It is probable that the former, in so far as essential dietary 
constituents are concerned, closelj^ approximates to skeletal 
muscle in quality. The oily fishes, such as herrings, &c., are 
more valuable as a constituent of the dietary, not onlj^ on 
account of their higher energy value, but also owing to the fat- 
soluble A vitamin which their oil contains. 

Eggs are a very useful addition to a diet, the j^olk especially 
being rich in fat-soluble A and water-soluble B vitamins. 

Milk is a food material of special importance. Many of the 
most widely used foods which are valuable sources of energy are, 
at the same time, either singly or in combination in a dietary, 
deficient in certain constituents essential for normal growth, 
development, and maintenance of health. iMilk contains all these 
constituents, and when used in conjunction with such food-stuffs, 
be they either of animal or vegetable origin, it corrects their 
dietary deficiencies. The biological value of milk protein is 
high, and on this account milk proteins are superior to those of 
any foods derived from vegetable sources. Milk is also rich in 
both fat-soluble A \'itamin and contains a certain amount of 
water-soluble B vitamin ; in addition, it is rich in mineral 
substances, especially calcium. It has already been seen that 
green leaves have the power of comi)ensating for certain dietary 
deficiencies, notably fat-soluble A vitamin, and in this respect 
are useful in supplementing the supply of this vitamin in milk. 
Furthermore, green leaves possess in a high degree, together 



25 

with certain fruits (especially citrus varieties), the antiscorbutic 
vitamin, which is deficient in most other classes of food-stuffs. 

If, therefore, a diet which is adequate, so far as its energy 
supply is concerned, is to be made safe in regard to the supply of 
other constituents essential for proper nutrition, this can best 
and most simply be assured by the addition of milk and green 
leaves to the diet. The value of milk and green leaves in ensuring 
the safety of a diet has earned for them the term " protective 
foods." 

It is quite possible that a mixed diet consisting of the commonly 
utilised classes of foods (seeds, tubers, roots and meat) might 
be so constituted as just to supply enough of each constituent 
necessary for nutrition. Some of the mineral salts, calcium, 
sodium and chlorine, would probably be low in amount, but in 
emergency it appears to be possible for the body to utilise inorganic 
sources to supply deficiencies. Hard water might suffice to 
make up the necessary calcium, and common salt the other two 
mineral elements. In nearly all ordinary diets composed of 
food-stuffs of the above classes, the supply of water-soluble B 
is usually sufficient ; its relatively wide distribution throughout 
food-stuffs would ordinarily ensure requirements^ being met by 
all usual mixed diets. It would seem, however, to be otherwise 
in regard to fat-soluble A vitamin, which is not so widely distri- 
buted throughout the various food materials of which diets 
are commonly composed. Although it may be possible to obtain 
a sufficient supply of fat-soluble A vitamin on a " seed, tuber, 
root, and meat " diet in which the representatives of each class 
are carefully selected and varied, it is possible that the amount 
may in some cases be perilously near the border line of safety, 
and may place the consumer in what has been called " the twilight 
zone," \\ithin which a very slight change in any of the dietary 
components may cause an important shift of balance in the wrong 
direction. There is experimental evidence to show that a diet 
which contains just enough fat-soluble A vitamin becomes inade- 
quate in regard to fat-soluble A vitamin when the protein content 
is lowered. Conversely,, when there is an ample supply of protein 
of high biological value, and also of mineral matter, an amount 
of fat-soluble A which would otherwise be inadequate may then 
suffice. That is to say, adequacy in respect of one essential 
constituent may be converted into inadequacy when the balance 
in respect of some other constituent of the diet is altered. Observ- 
ations of this kind make it evident that it is impossible to say 
what is the safe minimum of any dietary factor unless the 
biological values of all the other essential constituents of the diet 
are known. When the constituents of a diet are such as to bring 
the consumer into the so-called " twilight zone," any small 
shifts in the quality of the diet \\ith respect to any factor may 
either stabilise the processes of metabohsm or may lead to 
abnormal and pathological results. 



26 

A diet consisting of seeds or seed products, tubers, roots 
and meat must after all constitute the bulk of the diet of man, 
and if such a diet should happen to be within the " t\Wlight 
zone," it would appear that it can be raised into the region of 
safety by the addition of the protective foods — milk and leafy 
vegetables. 

10. The Preparation of Food in Relation to Nutritr'e 

Value. 

The effect of the various processes which food maj' undergo 
in its preparation for consumption upon the vitamin content 
of the food and its nutritive qualities demands consideration. 
It \\'ill suffice perhaps to deal with a few of the more representative 
and important food-stuffs ; other instances will naturally group 
themselves about these typical examples or will readily admit 
of judgment on similar considerations. 

Bread. — In the milling of white flour the object sought is to 
eliminate as much as possible of the outer coats of the grain 
(bran) and the embr^'o or germ, so that the resulting flour shall 
consist, as far as is practicable, of the contents of the cells of the 
endosperm. Since only very small amounts of the bran and 
germ remain ifl the finished flour, the latter is proportionately 
deficient in water-soluble B vitamin when compared with the 
original wheat grain or other varieties of flour containing various 
proportions of germ and branny particles. But when floin' is 
made into bread, yeast is used in the process in C[uantities usually 
amounting to rather less than one per cent, of the flour employed, 
and yeast is extremely rich in water-soluble B vitamin. Now, 
as the germ represents roughly 1 ' 5 per cent, of the wheat grain, 
and contains about four-fifths of the total content of water- 
soluble B vitamin present in the grain, the amount of water- 
soluble B vitamin contributed by the yeast would seem to be, 
at any rate, of the same order of magnitude as that contributed 
by the germ and outer coats of the grain. The commonly 
presumed disadvantages of bread made from white flour as 
compared with bread made from less liighly milled flour, in 
respect of the relative water-soluble B vitamin content of eacli, 
would seem therefore to be less serious than might at first be 
supposed. Experimental evidence suggests that requirements in 
regard to water-soluble B vitamin are easily satisfied, and there 
is nothing yet to show that these needs would not be met by the 
yeast in white bread even though such bread bulked largely 
in the diet.* An objection of a higher order and of greater weight 
could be urged against the undue prominence in a diet of bread 

* It is, of course, desirable that the processes to which food is 
subjected should not, if possible, diminish its content of any constituent 
which is inherently valuable in nutrition. At the cessation of Government 
control (31st March 1921) an average extraction of 76 per cent. " straight 
run " flour was being produced. Tliis flour makes excellent bread, and 



27 

made from any variety of flour, since most of the orthnary cereals 
used i'or food are deficient in fat-soluble A vitamin and contain 
protein of low biological value. The truth appears to lie in the 
fact that bread, so far as it supplies the needs of the body in 
respect of energy, protein, and mineral matter, is a good food, 
but that none of the cereals alone is a complete or ideal food. 
A mixture of different seeds is superior to one variety of seeds 
only, since the proteins of different seeds differ somewhat amongst 
themselves, and one may supply an important amino-grouping 
which may be lacking in another. Satisfactory nutrition is to be 
obtained only through variety and the right combination of 
foods. The various food-stuffs upon which mankind has to 
exist must be accepted and, instead of condemning them because 
this one or that is lacking in some respect, they should be utilised 
in combination to the best advantage. 

Margarine. — The chief constituents of margarine are vegetable 
oils such as cotton-seed oil, arachis oil, &c., and animal fats 
such as " oleo " and lard. Lately these have been supplemented 
by hydrogenated or " hardened " fats, and fats of this kind 
have to some extent replaced " oleo," which is relatively 
expensive and sometimes difficult to obtain. These fats and oils 
are mixed by churning "udth a proportion of skim milk. It is 
evident that the fat-soluble A vitamin content of margarine 
depends almost entirely upon the proportion of animal fat, other 
than lard, which it contains, and where tliis fat is replaced by 
hardened fats, the vitamin content of the margarine so produced 
may be very low. In respect of vitamin content such margarine 
contrasts markedly -with butter, for which it is used as a substitute. 
It is unfortunate that economic conditions should necessitate the 
curtailment of the use of animal fats in margarine, but in so far 
as margarine is a fat and a valuable source of energy, it is an im- 
portant food-stuff, and its use should not be condemned merely 
because of its possible poverty in vitamins. If necessary the fat- 
soluble A vitamin should be supplied from other sources. 

During late years margarine has largely replaced butter in 
the diets of considerable sections of the population, mainly on 

rnaj' be regarded as being slightly richer in water-soluble B vitamin than 
a " patent giade " flour, which is a more liighly refined fraction of the 
wheat. Whether the difference is of any practical moment it is impossible 
to say definitely in the present state of knowledge. It is possible that a 
demand for liighly refined flour may reassert itself, and to meet it the 
milling of " patent grade " flour may be resumed. The fact is that bread 
eaters in general prefer white bread to broad made from less liiglily milled 
flour, and it would be impracticable to coerce a community into consuming 
bread wliich might have advantages from a health point of view, but 
which is not relished. In such matters aesthetic considerations have much 
greater weight than those pertaining to well-being. 

For other aspects of this subject, see Dr. J. M. Hamill's Report to 
the Local Government Board on " The Nutritive \'alue of Bread matle 
from Different Varieties of Wheat Flour," 1911. [Cd. 5831.1 



28 

account of the sliortage and high price of butter.* It is not clear, 
however, whetlier tlie use on the present scale of margarine 
deficient in animal fat reduces the total fat-soluble A vitamin, 
content of the diet to such an extent as seriously to impair the 
vitamin value of the diet; further inquiry is necessary to 
determine, if jiossible, tliis point. 

Lard is an example of an animal fat which is usually deficient 
in fat-soluble A vitamin. This deficiency is not a necessary 
condition or pecuhar to the pig, but appears to depend upon 
t\\o factors. The first of these is the very- general practice of 
feeding ])igs on a diet poor in fat-soluble A A^tamin, in consequence 
of which the cmimals are unable to store a sufficiency of the vitamin 
in their fatt}^ tissue. The other factor consists in the process 
by Avhich lard is extracted on the commercial scale, where it 
may be subjected to temperatures sufticiently high and prolonged 
in the presence of air to destroy any fat-soluble A vitamin which 
the fat may initially have contained. 

Cooking of Green Ve.getables. — The rate of destruction of 
antiscorbutic vitamin is a function both of the temperature to 
\\hich it is exposed and the duration of exposure. Within the 
range of temperature ordinarily employed in cooking, e.g., 100° C. 
for boiling and 80° C. for simmering, the duration of exposure 
to these temperatures appears to be more important in the 
destruction of the vitamin than the differences in temperatures 
themselves. Cooking green vegetables for a short period of time 
at the higher temperature is therefore to be preferred to cooking 
them for the much longer time necessary at the lower temperature. 
For this reason, the method of slow cooking at temperatures 
somewhat below 100° C, as in the case of the so-called "hay box" 
method of cooking, is not suitable for green vegetables, and for the 
same reason green vegetables should not be cooked in stews, 
where the vitamin is exposed to a destructive temperature for 
relatively long periods. The antiscorbutic vitamin is also ex- 
tremely sensitive to alkaUes, and on this account the practice of 
adding soda to the water in which green vegetables are boiled 
is undesirable. When vegetables are steamed they retain more 
of their mineral constituents than when boiled. 

The process of drying vegetables is destructive of anti- 
scorbutic vitamin, and consequently dried vegetables are useless 
as antiscorbutics. 



* The monthly average consmnption, in tons, of imported and home 
produced butter and margarine, from 1915 to the end of the first half of 
1919, was as follows : — 





1915. 


1916. 


1917. 


1918. 


1919. 

6 months. 


Butter - * 
Margarine 


26,271 
18,166 


18,277 
22,212 


15,455 
22,768 


11,716 
21,205 


13,332 

28,686 



29 

Milk. — It has alreadj' been mentioned that experimental 
evidence seems to indicate that milk in a most important 
" protective food." In any ordinary mixed diet, consisting as 
it must do mainly of seeds, tubers, roots, and meat, there is 
the possibility of one or more essential substatices being lacking, 
or present in amount insufficient for satisfactory nutrition ; 
the addition of milk to such a dietary would appear to raise it 
above the zone of possible danger and ensure its safety for all 
purposes of nutrition. It is, however, important to realise that 
milk may exhil^it serious variations in its protective })ower, 
depending upon the conditions under which it is produced. 
The cow, as a member of the group of herbivora, possesses the 
ability of transmuting vegetable protein in its food into milk 
protein, which has a much higher biological value. It seems, 
however, to have no power to produce de novo fat soluble 
A vitamin, so that Avhatever fat-soluble A vitamin the 
milk may contain must have been derived directly from the 
vitamin present in the green vegetable food which the cow has 
consumed. The greater, therefore, the supply of green food 
(grass), the richer will the milk be in fat -soluble A vitamin, and if 
green food be lacking from the dietary of the cow, as is frequently 
the case in stall-fed cows in \\'inter, the milk produced will be 
deficient in fat-soluble A, and to this extent its value as a pro- 
tective food will be impaired. It is, therefore, important that 
milch cows should receive as large a proportion of green vege- 
table food as possible; the ideal conditions for the production 
of milk of satisfactory quality are attained A^hen the cows are 
being grazed. 

Human milk like\A-ise varies in its nutritive quality in accord- 
ance with the su]3ply of fat-soluble A vitamin in the mother's diet. 
Although human milk is normally superior to cow's milk for 
infant nutrition, there is evidence that these values may be re- 
versed where the mother's diet is deficient in fat -soluble A vitamin, 
and the cow is being fed on a diet in which grass bulks largely. 
It is therefore essential that the diet of a nursing mother should 
be rich in fat-soluble A vitamin, and in no way can this more 
readil;v' be ensured than by including in her dietary cow's milk 
containing a satisfactory supply of the vitamin. Eggs and green 
vegetables are valuable as a supplementary source of supply. 

Milk also possesses a definite but low anti.'^corbutic value. 
A point of practical importance is whether infantile scurvy is 
likely to supervene as a result of feeding with pasteurised, 
sterilised, or dried milks. There has been considerable divergence 
of opinion in regard to dried milk, but recent research .seems to 
show that in the ordinary processes of drying milk its antiscorbutic 
properties are not seriouslj' impaired. 

Having regard to the fact that the antiscorbutic properties 
of milk are low, and the possibility that dried milk if k('i)t for 
any length of time before consumption may suffer still fuithcr loss 



30 



of antiscorbutic properties, the policy of '" safety first ' has 
much to recommend it, and in conformity with this the adminis- 
tration of small quantities of orange juice to infants fed on dried 
milk, or indeed on any miLk, is a desirable precaution. 



11. Conclusions. 

In the foregoing discussion it has not been possible to do more 
than indicate the comphcated variety of factors which maj' 
influence the nutritive value of a diet, but out of the maze of 
considerations Mhich are involved, certain generahsations appear 
to emerge which, if used with caution and a recognition of the fact 
that present knowledge does not permit of final judgment, may 
serve as useful guides in the solution of practical dietetic problems. 

The ordinary materials which are readily available for the 
food of mankind — seeds, tubers, roots and meat — are competent 
to supply the energy required for the maintenance of life ; such 
food-stuffs must of necessity constitute the bulk of any dietary, 
but it is quite possible that a dietary of this kind, though ample 
in amount, may be seriously deficient in constituents essential 
for normal nutrition, growth and development. Limitation of 
the diet to too few articles from the above groups, and the mode 
of preparation and the subsequent cooking of food-stufFs, may 
aggravate the deficiency ; on the other hand, the careful selection 
of food-stuffs and the use of a variety of foods from the above 
categories may ensure the presence of a sufficiency of essential 
substances. In the present state of knowledge it is not possible 
to say with any exactness where a diet begins to be unsatisfactory 
in respect of its content of essential substances. There is, as it 
were, a region of doubt, the " twilight zone " as it has been called, 
in which small variations in the diet may make all the difference 
between adequacy for nutrition and the reverse. It is possible 
that large sections of a community maj' be Living within this zone, 
that the deficiencies in a diet may be intermittent and variable 
in nature, or so small as not to produce disturbance of metabohsm 
sufficiently marked to be recognisable as definite disease ; never- 
theless such deficiencies may result in minor and more subtle 
derangements of nutrition which may manifest themselves in 
defective physical development and lowered vitality. More precise 
and extensive information on this subject is needed and may 
be hoped for from future research. The point of practical 
importance which has emerged is that milk and green 
vegetables afford a means of raising any ordinary diet into 
the plane of safety, and pending further knowledge little 
fear may be entertained as to the satisfactory nature of any 
mixed diet into which milk and green vegetables enter, provided, 
of course, that the diet is sufficient in amount to afford the necessary 
supply of energy. It is not possible to say how much milk 
p diet should contain ; this will depend largely upon the richness 



31 

of the other articles of the diet in the essential constituents which 
milk provides. In the absence of definite knowledge on tliese 
points it would appear desirable that during the period of growth, 
at any rate, the amount of milk in the daily diet should be some- 
where in the region of a pint ;* it might with advantage be even 
more. At the present time the average daily milk consumption 
of the population of England and Wales has been estimated at 
about I pint per head, and in some populous districts is as low as 
0*08 or even 0*06 of a pint per head.f A pure and abundant 
milk suppl}^ readily procurable by all classes, is one of the 
essential factors in an}^ sound scheme of nutrition. 

The period of growi^h is the most important period of life, 
since upon satisfactory growth and development during this 
time the efficiency and well-being of adult life depend. In 
adult life, when development has been completed, it is probable 
that the need for some of the essential constituents is relatively 
less than during the period of growth, so that a diet which is safe 
during the period of growth in regard to essential constituents, 
is almost certain to be adecj[uate for adult life, always, of course, 
assuming that a sufficient energy supply has been assured. 

It will readily be inferred from the foregoing, that where a 
diet is supplemented by milk and green vegetables, the food 
materials of which the diet is composed may Cjuite satisfactorily 
consist of articles which are easily obtained and relatively 
cheap. Examples of such food-stuffs are — flour and its products, 
bread, &c. ; oatmeal; the pulses, e.g., peas, beans, and lentils; 
potatoes and roots, such as parsnips, carrots, &c. ; sugar and 
fats of all kinds. In regard to meat, it has already been mentioned 
that offal, which has the advantage of cheapness, appears to ])e 
dietetically superior to skeletal muscle (ordinary " meat "). 

Caution should be exsrcised in comparing the monetary value 
of one food -stuff with another if misleading conclusions are to 
be avoided. It is possible to compare fairly satisfactorily the 
monetary and dietetic value of the various cereals amongst 
themselves, and also to compare tubers, such as potatoes, T\ath 
various roots, when the point at issue is the energy value of 
these materials uncomplicated by other considerations. But to 
compare the monetary values of these clajsses of food-stuffs Avith 
other foods, such as milk, eggs, and leafy vegetables, may lead to 
fallacious results, since the dietetic considerations involved are 
not merely quantitatively but quahtatively dissimilar and do 
not admit of simple comparison. 

A final point for consideration is the effect of cooking upon 
the palatability and digestibility of food. Food which is so 
cooked as to be pleasing to the palate stimulates the secretion of 



* Second Interim Report of the Committee on the Production and 
Distribution of Milk fCmd. 88861, p. 6, issued in November. 1917. 

t Final Report of the Committee on the Production and Di^tribuLioti 
of Milk [Cmd. 483]. 1919; 



32 

digestive juices in a way which unpalatably cooked food 
is ''incapable of doing. The actual digestibility of food can also 
be im))aired by bad cooking. In order, therefore, that the most 
should be made of any diet, care and attention should be devoted 
to its preparation and cooking. It is to be feared that in many 
instances excellent food materials do not receive the treatment 
which they merit at the hands of those entrusted with their cook- 
ing. In this failure incompetence and apathy play their part, 
but ignorance and lack of facilities are accountable for much 
and are more easily remedied. For those who are desirous there 
are numerous opportunities of acquiring a knowledge of simple 
cooking, and an extensive literature exists on the subject. 

It is proba])le that much of what has been said in this report 
may need modification in the light of future discoveries. Know- 
ledge of the principles underlying nutrition has been greatly 
extended as a result of recent research, but it is evident that 
much j'et remains to be done. Progress in this work of national 
importance can be attained only by unremitting observa- 
tional and experimental inquiry. The problems awaiting investi- 
gation are amongst the most difficult which can be proposed 
for solution, and their elucidation will entail much labour and 
patient research. It was in this country, in the University of 
Cambridge, that the work which led to the two great dietetic 
conceptions — vitamins and the biological value of protein — largely 
had its origin, and it is onh'- fitting that this country should 
continue to maintain its position in the w^orld-wide search which 
is being vigorouslj^ prosecuted into the principles upon which 
sound nutrition and a rational system of dietetics can alone 
be based. 



SUIVBIARY. 

1. Food is necessary for (1) supplying material for the 
growth of the body and the repair of waste and (2) furnishing 
the energy required fpr muscular work and the maintenance ot 
bodily heat. 

2. The essential constituents of food can be grouped under 
the following classes of substances : — (a) proteins, (6) carbo- 
hydrates, (c) fats, {d) mineral matter, and (e) vitamins, or 
accessory food factors. A diet w'hich is defective in respect of 
any of these groups cannot be regarded as satisfactory for 
nutrition. 

3. The energy required by the body for w^ork and heat may 
conveniently be measured in terms of Calories. The energy 
requirements of the body Aary according to a variety of circum- 
stances, such as size, weight, age, sex, occupation, and environ- 
ment. The energy requirements of an average man engaged in 



33 

moderate work are, approximately, 3,300 Calories per day; 
a woman in similar circumstances requires about four-fifths of 
this amount and children from a half to four-fifths according 
to age. 

The energy which various food-stuffs can supply has been 
determined and tabulated in terms of Calories, and from such 
tables the amount of the various food materials needed to 
furnish the energy requirements of the body can be ascertained. 

4. The chief sources of energy in food-stuffs are the carbo- 
hydrates and fats. Within certain limits, carbohydrates and fats 
are interchangeable as sources of energy, but there is evidence 
which indicates that neither should be entirely absent from a diet. 

5. The protein in a diet contributes its share of energy, but 
its chief function is to supplj^ material for the repair of waste 
or wear and tear of the tissues of the body, and for growth. All 
ordinary mixed diets which supply an adequate amount of 
energy for the daily needs of the average man contain sufficient 
protein to meet requirements. 

Proteins vary in their composition according to the source 
from which they are derived, and the value of any given protein 
in nutrition depends upon its composition. A measure of the true 
value of proteins in nutrition appears to be their capacity to 
meet the organism's requirements in respect of the various 
amino-acids necessarj^ for normal metabolism. To this capacity 
the term " biological value of protein " has been appHed. The 
biological value of the proteins of milk and of meat is superior 
to that of proteins derived from vegetable sources such as 
cereals. 

6. In regard to mineral requirements, certain important 
groups of food-stuffs, such as most of the cereals and tubers, are 
low in calcium, whereas milk is rich in this im.portant element. 
]VIilk, therefore, is able to correct the calcium deficiency of these 
groups of food-stuffs which must of necessity enter largely into 
most diets. 

7. Vitamins are essential for normal growth and health. 
Their nature is not understood, and they have not yet been 
isolated. Their presence or absence in any particular food-stuff 
can only be inferred from the effects on nutrition produced by 
the administration of the food-stuff in question. Animals are 
dependent for their supply of vitamins upon the vegetable 
kingdom ; they are incapable of producing vitamins de novo. 
Three different vitamins, fat-soluble A, water-soluble B, and the 
antiscorbutic vitamin, have so far been distinguished. Both 
water-soluble B and fat-soluble A vitamins seem to be essential 
for normal growth and development. Deficiency in water- 
soluble B gives rise to beriberi in man and analogous conditions 
(polyneuritis) in animals, and there is evidence that a deficiency 
in fat-soluble A may be a factor in the causation of rickets. 
The antiscorbutic vitamin prevents the development of scur\ y. 
and cures the condition when it occurs. Water-soluble B vitamin 



34 

is found notably in tlie seedfi of plants, consequent!}' the cereals 
and pulses are an important source of supply of this vitamin. 
The vitamin occurs chiefly in the embryo, and to a lesser extent 
in the outer coat or bran ; in pulses it is distributed throughout 
the seed. Eggs and j'east are also rich in water-sohible B 
vitamui ; meat, fish, milk, and cheese contain relatively small 
amounts. The primary source of fat-soluble A ^itamin is green 
leaves. Animals, when fed on green leaves, store up the vitamin 
in their fatty tissues, so that animal fats, milk and butter, 
obtained from animals fed on green food are rich in this vitamin. 
]Most vegetable oils or fats, and, in general, roots and tubers, are 
deficient in fat-soluble A vitamin. The antiscorbutic vitamin is 
found in fresh green leaves and fresh fruits, especially oranges 
and lemons. Roots and tubers contain it in appreciable amounts. 
The antiscorbutic vitamin is readily destroyed by drpng; 
exposure to temperatures of 80° C. to 100° C. for one hour 
destroys 90 per cent, of the antiscorbutic vitamin content of 
vegetables, and the destruction is still more rapid if the vegetables 
are boiled with an alkah such as soda. Water-soluble B vitamin 
withstands drying, but is gradually destroyed at 120° C. Fat- 
soluble A vitamin is destroyed by heating to a temperature of 
100° C. for one to two hours in the presence of oxygen (air). 

8. The chief food-stuffs of manldnd can be grouped according 
to their nature into the following categories : — (1) seeds, (2) tubers, 
(3) roots, (4) meat, (5) leaves, (G) fruits, (7) millv and milk 
products. A diet consisting of seeds, tubers, roots, and meat 
may be deficient in fat-soluble A vitamin and calcium ; the 
inclusion of leaves (green vegetables) arid milk in the dietary 
corrects these deficiencies. 

9. The processes which food undergoes in preparation may 
impair its vitamin content; thus flour may be deprived of 
much of its water-soluble B vitamin in milling; lard may lose 
in the process of manufacture any fat-soluble A vitamin which 
it may j^ossess, and margarine made from vegetable oils, lard, 
and " hardened " fats, may also be deficient in fat-soluble A 
vitamin. Green vegetables may have their antiscorbutic 
properties destroyed by prolonged boiUhg, or by the addition of 
soda to the water in which they are boiled. In the making of 
bread, the addition of yeast is probably sufficient to correct the 
loss of water-soluble B vitamin incurred in miUing. 

10. There would seem to be greater risk of a diet being 
deficient in fat-soluble A than in water-soluble B vitamin, since 
fat-soluble A vitamin is not so widely distributed amongst food 
materials as is Avater-soluble B vitamin. By suitable selection 
and variety it may be feasible to construct a diet consisting of 
seeds, roots, tubers and meat, i.e., the staple material of most 
diets, which may contain all that is necessary for normal nutri- 
tion, but the possibiHty cannot be ignored that a diet con- 
structed from these important food-stuffs, whilst adequate as 
regards energy production, may be deficient in certain respects. 



35 

notably in fat-soluble A vitamin. The addition of milk and 
leaves (green vegetables) to such a diet would appear to be 
sufficient to raise it into the j^lane of safety, and for this reason 
milk and green vegetables have been termed " protective foods." 
In adult Kfe the need for certain essential constituents (vitamins) 
is probably less than during the period of growth, so that a diet 
which is satisfactory during this period is almost certain to be 
adequate for adult hfe, assuming that a sufficient energj^ supply 
is assured. 

11. In order that a dietary should include all the essentials 
for nutrition, it should be as varied as possible. All available 
evidence indicates the undesirableness of hmiting a diet to a 
few varieties of food material. When a diet is supplemented 
with milk and green vegetables, the most readily obtainable 
foods from the classes of seeds, roots, tubers and meat, such as 
flour, bread, &c., oatmeal; the pulses, €,.g., peas, beans, and 
lentils; potatoes and roots, such as carrots, parsnips, &c. ; sugar 
and fat of all kinds, together with meat and " offal," vnW form 
a satisfactory diet. Many of the more expensive and luxurious 
foods are superior only in regard to aesthetic qualities. 

. 12. The palatability and digestibiht}'^ of food are largely 
dependent upon good cooldng, and the nutritive value of much 
good food is impaired by lack of care and attention in this 
respect. 

J. M. HAMILL. 



A. W. J. :MacFadden, 

Seriior Medical Officer. 



3() 



APPEXDIX 1. 



Thk Composition and Energy Value of certain Food 
Materials {see p. 8). 

In this table the figures imder the various headings (with the exception 
of Energy Value) represent percentages of the article in question. 

















Knorgy 





Water. 


Ash. 


Sodium 
Chloride. 


Pro- 
tein. 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Fat. 


Value, 
Caloricfc 
per 1 lb. 

1 


Beef. 
















Rumpsteak 


43-9 


0-81 


0-06 


13-7 


— 


41-52 


2006-3 


Silverside - 


63-4 


1-07 


0-08 


20-01 


— 


15-26 


1016-1 


Sirloin 


50-0 


0-64 


0-07 


16-16 


— 


33-14 


1748-5 


Topside - 


49-6 


0-77 


0-06 


15-82 


— 


33-68 


1715-1 


Kidney 


76-3 


1-3 


0-5 


18-1 


by diff. 


2-6 


446-3 


Liver 


70-8 


1-6 


0-1 


19-9 


4-4 


3-2 


587-0 


Tripe 


81-3 


0-23 


— 


l.'5-7o 


— 


2-12 


382-4 


Sweetbread 


70-8 


1-8 


0-1 


17-0 


by dif=f. 


110 


•780-2 


Heart 


44-5 


0-7 


0-14 


13-16 


0-48 


40-78 


1974-1 


Tongue 


46-8 


0-6 


0-07 


11-89 


— 


38-64 


1851-1 


Mutton. 
















Leg - 


51-7 


0-82 


0-07 


16-07 


— 


28-50 


1501 •(> 


Shoulder - 


45-2 


0-76 


0-06 


13-24 


— 


34-91 


1719- 1 


Loin 


27-8 


0-36 


0-04 


9-47 


— 


56-57 


2562-4 


Xeck 


29-0 


0-60 


0-05 


9-55 


— 


34-86 


1647-9 


Pork. 
















Leg - 


50-5 


0-7 


0-12 


16-26 


— 


11-90 


1262-4 


Shoulder - 


37-7 


0-5 


Oil 


15-42 


— 


27-04 


1427-5 


Loin 


350 


0-5 


0-1 


12-94 


— 


32-60 


1615-7 


Trotter - 




— 




14-00 


" 


10-96 


722-6 




Other 








Ash. 












Bacon, 
















Back 


24-6 


2-3 


4-5 


9-1 





59-9 


2696-2 


Gammon - 


35-6 


2-2 


5-9 


11-7 


— 


44-6 


2099-3 


Streaky 


27-0 


3-6 


4-2 


10-3 


— 


54-2 


2478-0 


Ham 


— 


— 


— 


12-41 


— 


42-17 


2009-9 


Tinned Meat - 


67-2 


1-5 


— 


24-0 


— 


7-1 


745-'/ 




33-7 


Ash 


0-07 


12-49 


0-08 


2-98 




Chicken - 


0-57 


359-7 












by diff. 






Rabbit (without 


— 








12-53 


0-07 


4-5 


424-6 


skin). 


















Carbo- 














hydrate 








87-6 


0-7 




3-3 


(Lactose). 


3-6 




Milk 


4-8 


303-0 


Suet 


5-9 


0-2 


— 


1-2 


— 


93-3 


3958-1 



37 





Water. 


Ash. 


Sodium 
Chloride. 


Pro- 
tein. 


Carbo- 
liydrnto. 


Fat. 


Enerjzy 

Valium 

Calories 

per 1 lb. 


Fish (includ- 
















ing Skin). 
Herring yearling 
Mackerel - 


46-9 
41-2 


1-04 
0-7 


— 


12-1 
11-8 


— 


10-95 
7-0 


686-8 
514-8 


Salmon (section) 
Cod (section) 
Hake 


52-0 
70-3 
53-2 


1-2 
11 

0-8 


— 


16-3 
15-7 
12-4 


— 


12-9 
01 

0-6 


847-3 
296-2 
256-8 


Plaice 


43-6 


0-7 


— 


12-9 


— 


3-0 


366-5 


Sole - 


54-9 


1-4 


— 


15-2 


— 


1-5 


346-1 


Turbot - 


45-8 


0-6 


— 


HI 


— 


1-6 


269-9 















Carbo- 
hydrate. 


EnergyValue, 




Water. 


Ash. 


Fibre. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Calories 
per 1 lb. 


Cereals. 
















Maize meal 


9-6 


0-7 


0-3 


9-9 


21 


77-4 


1712-3 


Cornflour - 


11-4 


01 


0-0 


0-8 


0-1 


87-6 


1648-4 


Oatmeal - 


6-9 


1-8 


0-8 


11-9 


8-6 


70-0 


1886-1 


Rice 


10-9 


0-6 


0-3 


6-7 


0-4 


811 


1649-7 


Flour 


11-3 


0-8 


0-7 


10-1 


1-6 


75-5 


1660-0 


Tapioca 


11-9 


0-1 


0-01 


0-2 


0-05 


87-74 


1637-5 


Macaroni - 


10-9 


0-5 


0-1 


12-8 


0-2 


75-5 


1650-6 


Pulses. 




» 












Beans, haricot - 


11-1 


3-5 


2-6 


17-8 


0-5 


64-5 


1551-8 


Peas (dried) 


13-8 


2-7 


5-4 


20-4 


0-6 


57-1 


1466-5 


Lentils (split) - 


12-3 


2-1 


1-2 


20-1 


0-4 


63-9 


1579-0 


Vegetables. 
















Cabbage - 


87-4 


1-1 


1-3 


1-3 


015 


8-7 


192-3 


Cauliflower 


89-8 


1-0 


1-3 


1-5 


015 


6-3 


151-5 


Carrots 


87-0 


0-9 


11 


1-2 


0-1 


9-6 


205-0 


Onions 


86-6 


0-9 


11 


1-3 


0-12 


111 


235-9 


Parsnips - 


74-9 


1-2 


2-3 


1-8 


0-47 


19-4 


413-0 


Potatoes - 


76-3 


0-9 


0-5 


1-7 


0.03 


20-6 


415-9 


Tomatoes 


93-5 


0-5 


0-7 


0-7 


0-1 


4-5 


100-7 


Turnips - 


92-4 


0-9 


0-7 


1-4 


0-1 


4-4 


112 


Green peas(fresh) 


78-3 


0-7 


2-4 


3-3 


0-2 


10-3 


261-3 


(as purchased) 
















Broad beans (as 


80-0 


0-9 


1-9 


3-5 


0-2 


13-5 


324-8 


purchased). 



































Energy 
















Total 




Value, 




Waste. 


Acidity. 


Water, 


Ash. 


Fibre. 


Protein. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Fat. 


Calories 
per 
1 lb. 


Apples 


9-2 


111-7 


77-5 


0-3 


0-7 


0-3 


9-8 


0-2 


195-9 


Oranges 


25-1 


90-1 


65-1 


0-4 


0-3 


0-6 


6-6 


0- 1 


137-4 


Bananas 


43-3 


48-9 


40-2 


0-5 


1-2 


0-6 


14-1 


0- 1 


27S-5 


Pears 


12-3 


33-2 


73-9 


0-3 


1-7 


0-3 


7-4 


0-1 


147-0 


Plums 


5-1 


248-7 


82-3 


0-4 


0-8 


0-5 


7-8 


0-3 


164-2 


Melons 


44-7 


5-7 


51-7 


0-2 


0-2 


0-3 


2-6 


0-0 


54-2 



38 





Water. 


Other 
Ash. 


Sodium 
Chloride. 


Fibre. 


Pro- 
tein 


Carbohydrate. 


Fat. 


Energy 
Value, 




Maltose. 


Starch 
by diff. 


Calories 
per 
1 lb. 


Bread 
(brown) 

Bread 
(white) 


43-2 
42-3 


1-3 

0-9 


1-0 

0-9 


0-7 
0-6 


7-0 
7-2 


5-8 
3-7 


41-9 
44-4 


0-4 

0-2 


1012-4 
103(i-9 



Water. 



Sodium 
Chloride. 



Other 
Ash. 



Undeter- 
mined. 



Pro- 
tein. 



Carbo- 
hydrate. 



Fat. 



Energy 
Value, 
Calorics 
per 1 lb. 



Butter 
Margarine 
Dripping 
Lard 



13-85 
13-0 



•25 

•24 



0-1 
0-4 



1-4 

0-8 



0-2 
0-2 



82 


95 


84 


8 


100 





100 






3502-9 
3578-9 
4218-5 
4218-5 

















Energy 




Water. 


Other 

Ash. 


Sodium 
Chloride. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Undeter- 
mined, 


Value, 
Calories 
per 1 lb. 


Cheese — • 








• 








Hard (full cream) 


31-6 


2-7 


2-0 


25-7 


35 


3-1 


2011-3 


Hard (skin) 


41-5 


31 


2-2 


32-2 


11-6 


9-4 


1260-4 


Soft - 


41-1 


2-0 


1-4 


22-1 


30-3 


31 


1746-8 





Water. 


Ash. 


Fibre. 


Protein. 


Carbohydrate. 


Fat. 


Energy 
Value, 




Cane 
Sugar. 


Starch, 
by diff. 


Calories 
per 
1 lb. 


Sugar, brown 
Sugar, white 


0-7 


0-1 




— 


98-0 
100-0 


— 


— 


1822-6 
1859-8 



Water. 



Ash. 



Fibre. 



Pro- 
tein. 



Carbohydrate. 



Reducing 

Hexoso as 

Glucose. 



Cane 
Sugar. 



Undeter- 
mined. 



Energy 

Value, 

Calories 

per 

1 Jb. 



Syiiip. 


15- 1 


0-90 


gcildcn. 






Honey 


18-3 


0-30 


Jam 


26-6 


0-40 


Marmalade 


27-9 


0-17 



0-0 

0-10 
I -00 
0-68 



0-.3 



0-2 



44-5 

69-2 
43-9 
67 - 



31 


9 


2 


2 


25 


5 


1 


-6 



7-30 

9-50 
2-30 
2-45 



1426-6 

1290-0 
1296-4 
1280-4 



39 



• 


Water. 


Ash. 


Protein. 


Carl)o- 
hydrato. 


Fat. 


Undi-t.T- 
minoil. 


Energy 

Value, 

Calories 

per 1 lb. 


Eggs (hens')*, with 
shell. 


66-3 


10 


11-1 


— 


10-12 


1-40 


(559- 1 



Average weight of one egg, with shell, is taken as 2 oza. 



APPENDIX 2. 



A Simple Typical Diet. 



Constitvients. 



Amount per Day. 



Energy Value 
in Calories. 



Meat 

Canned meat - - - - 

Bread . - - - - 

Biscuit - - - - - 

Rice ... - - 

Oatmeal .... 

Bacon . . . - - 

Butter 

Cheese - - - - - 

^r 4. ui /Potatoes - 
Vegetables <|^(.^l^^,^g^ - 

Jam . . - . . 
Sugar - . - - - 

Milk (vuisweetened condensed) 

Tea 

Salt 

Pepper . - - - - 
Mustard . . . - 
Pickles 




The above is a simple type of diet wliich has been propoi=;o(l for troops 
not engaged in arduous operations; in practice, variety would be intro- 
duced into such a diet by the substitution of articles of approximately 
equivalent value when available. 



40 
APPENDIX 3. 



MiNHRAL Contents, in Milligrams per 100 Grains of the 
Edible Portion of some Common Foods.* 



Iron. 



Cal- 
cium. 



Magne- 
sium. 



Sodium. 



Potas- 
sium. 



Phos- 
phorus. 



Chlorine. 



Boef, lean - 
Eggs - 
Milk - 
Oatmeal 
Rice, polished 
Wheat flour 
Wheat grain 
Beans, lima, 

dried. 
Cabbage 
Peas, dried - 
Potatoes 
Turnips 
Apples 
Raisins 



3-8 


8 


30 


67 


0-2 


120 


3-7 


93 


0-7 


8 


1-5 


26 


5-2 


44 


7-2 


71 


0-9 


49 


6-6 


100 


1-2 


11 


0-6 


64 


0-3 


10 


3-6 


57 



24 

9 

11 

127 

27 

30 

170 

187 

14 

145 

22 

169 

8 

9 



67 
15 
51 
81 
21 
69 
106 
245 

20 
118 
19 
59 
15 
141 



35 


22 


14 


16 


142 


94 


380 


380 


68 


89 


146 


86 


515 


469 


1,743 


336 


243 


27 


880 


397 


440 


61 


332 


51 


125 


13 


830 


126 



50 
100 
120 
35 
50 
76 
88 
25 

13 
40 
30 
40 
4 
70 



* Lusk, G. 
1919). 



The Science of Nutrition " (W. B. Savmders Company, 



Printed under the authority of His Majesty's Stationery Office 

JJy Eyre and Spottiswoodc, Ltd., East Harding Street, E.C. 4, 

Printers to the King's most Excellent Majesty. 



LONDON : 
PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE. 



To be purcliased through any Bookseller or directly from 

H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the foUowing addresses : 

Imperial House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2, and 28, Abinodon Street, London, S.W.I; 

37, Peter Street, Manchester; 1, St. Andrew's Crescent, Cardiff; 

23, Forth Street, Edinburgh; 

or from EASON and SON, Ltd., 41 and 42, Lower Sackvillk Street, Dublin. 



1921. 

Price 3d. Net. 



