
itfj Jt (linrhim 
- 1940 



fct tttentortam 
Mamilton (Sarbon 



tscr of Pomett 
of Toronto 
;3fram 1921 to 1939 

Department of ^S 
^bucattcm for pffomen 



HYGIENE 

OF 
WOMEN AND CHILDREN 



OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS ) 



HYGIENE 

OF 

WOMEN AND CHILDREN 



BY 

JANET E. LANE-CLAYPON 

M.D., D.Sc. (LOND.) 

DEAN AND LECTURER ON HYGIENE IN THE HOUSEHOLD AND SOCIAL SCIENCE DEPART- 
MENT, KING'S COLLEGE FOR WOMEN I JUSTICE OF THE PEACE : FORMERLY MEDICAL 
INSPECTOR UNDER THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT BOARD 




LONDON 
HENRY FROWDE AND HODDER & STOUGHTON 

THE L4NCET BUILDING 
i & 2 BEDFORD STREET, STRAND, W.C.2 



First published in 1921 



PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN 
BY HAZEIX, WATSON AND VINEY, LD. 
LONDON AND AYLESBURY. 



INTRODUCTION 

DURING the last half-century or more there has been a great 
expansion of the whole subject of Hygiene. This has taken 
place both in the depth and extent of our knowledge and of 
our practice. When the early reformers commenced their 
work their efforts were directed to the improvement of the 
general conditions which concerned the community as a 
whole. They worked for, and secured, great advances in 
communal cleanliness that is, in the general cleansing of the 
streets, improvement in the water-supply and drainage, and 
also in the methods of dealing with infectious disease. It 
was, in fact, mainly with a view to the prevention of epidemics 
that they pressed for the amelioration of the other con- 
ditions. The latter part of last century witnessed the 
consolidation of a number of Public Health Acts and the 
development of the legal powers necessary for communal 
hygiene by the formation of Local Sanitary Authorities. 

The first step, therefore, was that of undertaking for the 
people of any district work which, from its nature, could not 
be undertaken by any one individual, but required the 
collective efforts of the community. The present generation 
is apt to take communal hygiene for granted, and perhaps 
hardly realizes how much has been accomplished. Unfor- 
tunately, it is necessary to add that a very great deal remains 
to be done, especially in some of the great industrial towns 
and in the rural parts of many counties. We know the 
advantages of good sanitation; anyone can see them for 
himself, since it is usually provided in the residential areas of 
those towns whose poorer areas are in great need of improve- 
ment. We know how disease takes hold and spreads in dirty, 
overcrowded areas ; how, for example, the children in those 



vi INTRODUCTION 

parts suffer from summer diarrhoea out of all proportion to 
the children in areas of good sanitation. We can see, if we 
will, the troubles of the housewife with dirt and flies, and the 
impossibility of providing adequately for family comfort 
in the insanitary and incommodious houses found in many 
congested areas. 

All this is dealt with in numerous text-books, and he who 
runs may read. While nurses, health visitors, and other 
sanitary workers may see the ill effects of bad sanitation, it 
is a subject which should be studied and made their own by 
women, and every effort should be made to secure improve- 
ments where they are needed. 

In this book passing references only have been made to 
general sanitation just to point out how general sanitation 
affects the individual. 

The next development of the whole subject of Hygiene was 
along certain special lines the hygiene of the child at various 
ages. Thus, the school medical service deals with the child 
of school age, the infant welfare work started on the infant 
after birth, and spread backwards to the mother and onwards 
to the child of school age. As a whole, the subject had 
arisen and had of necessity been dealt with, as it were, in 
sections of the community. Again, we have the special 
arrangements for dealing with tuberculosis and venereal 
disease, all on communal lines. 

A community is, however, made up in the aggregate of 
families, and these of individuals, and it is to the individual 
and the home that attention has been directed in this book. 
After all, it is to the individual that we must come in the 
end for any concerted effort. General public health measures 
will only carry us a certain way they must be the first step 
but the final step must be by the individual. It has been 
well said that people can be made neither healthy nor sober 
by Act of Parliament. Acts of Parliament are, however, 
essential in dealing with the impediments which prevent 
individuals from working out their own salvation, but they 
cannot effect this. 

Much breaking up of ground still remains to be done under 



INTRODUCTION vii 

the various Acts of Parliament which are now in operation for 
the improvement of the health of the people as a whole. 
But the time seems to have come when the note of individual 
hygiene should be sounded more loudly than has hitherto 
been the case. It is with a view to giving what is hoped 
may be some aid in this direction that this book has been 
undertaken. A good many important investigations have 
been carried out of recent years which have enlarged our 
knowledge of the whole subject, and an effort has been 
made to collect this material and to present it, so far as 
may be, in a simple and practical form. 

Of all the branches of hygiene that of the individual is, 
I fear, the most difficult in practice. If carried out as it 
should be, it makes demands upon the person of a far- 
reaching nature. It is not known by instinct, and knowledge 
is required ; but knowledge is of no use without practice, and 
the practice of personal hygiene implies self-control and 
often self-denial. Our desires are not always in the direction 
of health, but the contrary, and those who would retain 
health must often control their natural tendencies. Self- 
control is not a marked feature of present-day life in general, 
although both health and happiness are frequently lost by 
allowing free rein to fancies and desires. Often, no doubt, 
it is due largely to ignorance, because the reason for taking 
care of the body has not been appreciated. 

It is hoped that some of the difficulty of obtaining in- 
formation may be met by this book. So far as possible, no 
branch of hygiene on which information was already easily 
obtainable has been dealt with other than in passing. In 
infant hygiene it may be thought that the last remark does 
not hold, but it is hoped that some points are brought for- 
ward here, upon which information has not, as yet, been 
readily accessible. The same remark applies to the chapters 
on milk. There are, of course, numerous large works upon 
this subject, but they can scarcely be held to be readily 
accessible. Hence it was decided to insert some chapters on 
this subject. It is a wide branch of hygiene, and has been 
condensed so as to deal with only the more important 



viii INTRODUCTION 

aspects which are necessary for an intelligent appreciation 
of the reasons for dealing as is suggested with milk in the 
home, and when used as the sole food for infants. 

It had originally been intended to insert one or two 
chapters upon sex hygiene and the physiology of the re- 
productive system. While the book was being written the 
whole subject has come very much to the front, and a 
number of books on special aspects of the subject have 
been issued. It would have been necessary, if dealt with 
at all, to consider the whole question at greater length than 
had been originally intended. The alternative was to omit 
the whole, as being in a sense a special branch and requiring 
more elaborate treatment than was possible in the space 
available, and this was the course selected. 

There is no intention of suggesting that sex is not closely 
interwoven with the whole question of personal hygiene. 
Rather is it of such importance as to require special handling. 

While this book is intended especially for nurses and health 
visitors, it is hoped that teachers and individuals will find 
it of general assistance to them in their work or in their 
daily life. 

Throughout, the practice has been to refer constantly to 
other chapters and to endeavour by this means to draw atten- 
tion to the interweaving of the various parts of the subject. 

I am much indebted to many people for their kind aid 
in connection with the illustrations in this book. In especial 
I am deeply obliged to Professor V. Mottram for kindly 
preparing the elaborate tables in Chapter XVI, and also 
for reading over the proofs of all the chapters on food and 
on beverages. To Miss E. A. Stoney, M.A., for making 
X-ray photographs of feet ; to Miss E. Rigby Gardner, 
B.A., for the photographs of garments and of the shoe. I 
am further indebted to the following for permission to 
reproduce diagrams, etc., from their works, and I take this 
opportunity of conveying to them my hearty thanks : 

To the Controller of His Majesty's Stationery Office for 
figs, i, 2, 10-13, 2 3 39, 4> .4-1, 57> 58, 60, 61, 62 ; to Dr. 
Charles Porter for figs. 3, 6, 8, 9 ; to the Aircraft Manu- 



INTRODUCTION ix 

facturing Co. for figs. 4 and 5 ; to Dr. Joseph Cates for 
figs. 7, 15, and 1 6 ; to Professor Cohen of Leeds for figs. 
17-21 ; to Professor Robinson of Edinburgh for fig. 22 ; 
to Dr. Rivers of Cambridge for fig. 37 ; to the Royal Society 
for figs. 42 and 43 ; to Professor Gowland Hopkins for 
fig. 44 ; to Professor McCollum of the Johns Hopkins 
Hospital for fig. 45 ; to Dr. Harold Waller for fig. 46 ; to 
the National Clean Milk Society for figs. 47 and 54 ; to 
Messrs. Welford's Dairy Co. for fig. 49 ; to Professor Klein 
and to the United States Department of Agriculture for 
figs. 50, 51, and 52 ; to Professor and Mrs. Edward Mellanby 
for fig. 59 ; to Dr. Engel for figs. 64-68 ; and to Sir Alfred 
Tubby for figs. 69-72. 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

INTRODUCTION V 



CHAPTER I 

THE HOME - I 

CHAPTER IT 

ON GENERAL AMENITIES AND THE VALUE OF A GARDEN 8 

CHAPTER III 

ON ACCOMMODATION AND OTHER GENERAL POINTS IN 

THE HOME ....... 24 

CHAPTER IV 

ON THE STORAGE OF FOOD, WATER-SUPPLY, HEATING, 

ETC. ........ 40 

CHAPTER V 

ON FRESH AIR AND VENTILATION .... 48 

CHAPTER VI 

DUST AND DIRT ... 60 

CHAPTER VII 

GENERAL AND PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 73 



xii CONTENTS 

CHAPTER VIII 

PAGE 

ON CLOTHING . ^. . . . . . QO 

CHAPTER IX 

CLOTHING FOR WOMEN .' . . . . . 106 

CHAPTER X 

THE FEET . . . * . - I][ 7 

CHAPTER XI 

EXERCISE . . . . . . . . 132 

CHAPTER XII 

FATIGUE . , . .; V . . . 144 

CHAPTER XIII 

REST AND SLEEP . . . . . ' . . ' 15^ 

CHAPITER XIV 

ON BEVERAGES . ; . i r . . . . 169 

#> 

CHAPTER XV 

ON FOOD AND FEEDING . . . l86 

CHAPTER XVI 

FOOD AND FEEDING (CONTINUED). THE CHOICE OF 

FOOD-STUFFS . V ' . . . . IQ5 

< 

CHAPTER XVII 

FOOD AND FEEDING (CONTINUED). ACCESSORY FOOD 

FACTORS . . .-' . . . 209 



CONTENTS xiii 

CHAPTER XVIII 

PAGE 

THE HYGIENE OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL . . 2l6 

CHAPTER XIX 

MILK : ITS COMPOSITION ... . 227 

CHAPTER XX 

MILK PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY .... 234 

CHAPTER XXI 

ON THE BACTERIA IN MILK AND STANDARDS OF PURITY 251 

CHAPTER XXII 

ON THE HEATING OF MILK AND ITS CARE IN THE HOME 262 

CHAPTER XXIII 

THE FEEDING OF INFANTS ..... 277 

CHAPTER XXIV 

ARTIFICIAL FEEDING 2Q3 

CHAPTER XXV 

THE FEEDING OF CHILDREN AFTER THE AGE OF INFANCY 303 

CHAPTER XXVI 

NOTES ON RICKETS AND SCURVY .... 308 

CHAPTER XXVII 

GROWTH AND GROWTH FACTORS IN INFANCY AND CHILD- 
HOOD ........ 32O 

INDEX ......... 341 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

PAGE 

1. A model lay-out for houses ..... 9 

2. Showing an adapted housing scheme 10 

3. Plan of back-to-back houses . . . . .11 

4. Air photograph of Earswick, near York ... 12 

5. Air photograph of the East End of London . . 13 

6. Samples of sanitary bins . . . ... .15 

7. An insanitary rubbish-heap ..... 17 

8. Showing the pollution of a water-supply from a wrongly 

placed privy ..... .20 

9. A portable earth-closet ...... 22 

10. Plans of model houses under the Ministry of Health 

schemes ........ 25 

n. Plans of model houses under the Ministry of Health 

schemes .... .... 26 

12. Plans of model houses under the Ministry of Health 

schemes ........ 27 

13. Elevation and section of model houses under the 

Ministry of Health schemes ..... 29 

14. Poster showing the methods of contamination of food 

by flies . -35 

15. Middens in the North of England . . . .36 

16. An insanitary yard . . . . . . 37 

17. Holly-leaf half cleaned ...... 65 

18. Laurel-leaf half cleaned ...... 65 

19. The effect of watering grass with different rain-waters 66 

20. The effect of watering grass with acidulated waters . 67 

21. Smoke in Leeds ....... 69 

22. Diagram of skin ....... 80 

23. Disks of material showing degrees of contact . . 93 

24. Infants' garments ....... 97 

25. Infants' garments .... . . 99 

26. Flannel drawers, simple pattern . . 101 

XV 



xvi LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



PAGE 



27. Garments for little boys ...... 102 

28. Garment made from stocking- tops .... 103 

29. Garments for girls ....... 104 

30. Imprint of a normal foot on the ground . . .120 

31. A fashionable shoe ....... 121 

32. X-ray photograph of foot in stocking . . .122 

33. X-ray photograph of same foot in pointed shoe . . 123 

34. X-ray photograph of normal foot standing on level 

surface . .-.''. . . . . 128 

35. X-ray photograph of same foot in a high-heeled shoe 

standing on a level surf ace . .. . . .129 

36. Mosso's ergograph . . . . . . . 147 

37. Ergogram showing onset of fatigue . . . . 149 

38. Showing the percentage of accidents in relation to the 

time of day . . '..,-. . . . 152 

39. The effect of taking alcohol with and without food, on 

the rate and accuracy of typing . . . : , 181 

40. The effect on typing of alcohol taken with a fatless 

and a fatty meal . . , . . .. .- . 182 

41. Showing the amounts of alcohol in the blood when 

taken at different times in relation to food . . 183 

42. Metabolism in calories of men per diem . . . 192 

43. Metabolism of boys in calories per diem . . . 193 

44. The effect on rats of an artificial diet . . . 210 

45. Effect on young rats of feeding with different kinds 

of fat . . . . . . . .... 211 

46. The effect on the infant's weight-curve of removing 

its mother's bad teeth . , . . . .219 

47. Open and protected milk-pails ..... 241 

48. A Ulax filter . . . . . . . . 247 

49. Showing milk passing over a cooler . . . , . 248 

50. A double-coil pasteuriser . . . . . 267 

51. A simple pasteuriser with revolving paddles . . 268 

52. A utilizer of heat ' . . . . . . . . 269 

53. A home-pasteurising apparatus .... 276 

54. The long and the short haul ..... 283 

55. The relation between stimulus and output of the 

mammary gland . . . .... 286 

56. The weight- curves of two breast-fed babies and the 

amounts of milk taken ...... 291 

57. A method of desiccating milk ..... 298 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS xvii 

PAGE 

58. Weight-curves of infants fed on dried milk . .301 

59. The effect of rickets on the formation of teeth . . 311 

60. Percentage increase of weight in infants . . 3 2 3 

61. Average .weights of breast-fed and artificially fed 

children 325 

62. The same but over a longer period .... 326 

63. The proportion of the head to the rest of the body at 



64-1 




j"? 
'333 


65- 




334 


66. 


The muscular development of the infant at different 


334' 




ages . 




67- 

fiS 




335 



69. -| (337 

70. V Faulty and correct postures . . . . . -[ 338 

71. J 1338 



HYGIENE 

CHAPTER I 

THE HOME 

THE life of a nation is closely linked up with the position 
occupied by the life of the home. The habits of the country 
depend in great measure upon it. If the home is, as it should 
be, a point of attraction for the whole family, the minds of 
the members of the family will turn towards it. If, on the 
other hand, the home conditions are not attractive, then 
the mind will turn towards other things. 

It is not the size of the house, nor the nature of its 
furniture or other fittings, which makes a home, but the 
atmosphere which reigns there. The atmosphere is made 
in grea measure, at any rate, by the housewife. It is 
impossible to describe the numerous details which go to 
make up the atmosphere of a house, but it is felt at once 
on entering. Personality is impressed on the whole condition 
of the rooms, and is evident to those entering the house. 

It is sometimes assumed that personality can only be 
shown if money is available to purchase such furniture as 
the taste of the individual will select. The actual contents 
of the house may, it is true, be a means of expressing 
personality. But it is only one method : the little details 
show the character of the person responsible fully as clearly 
as the pieces of furniture. The arrangement of the rooms, 
their order or disorder, the care bestowed upon the polished 
wood or metal, the presence of a few flowers either in pots 
or in a vase, the state of cleanliness of the rooms, and sundry 
other points all give a vivid picture of the housewife's 
mentality. 

It is sometimes taken for granted that a woman must 
i 



2 HYGIENE 

instinctively know all about her duties both as housewife 
and mother. The child welfare movement has, however, 
shown that knowledge of child hygiene is not obtained 
through instinct, but by knowledge and instruction. 
Gradually, also, it is being realized that training is necessary 
for the housewife, and that the proper way to look after a 
home is not learnt by instinct. 

Instruction in the care of the home in all its branches 
can doubtless be handed on in great measure from mother 
to daughter, and up to a point this is a good method. 
But many mothers of the present day have not themselves 
received the necessary instruction, and cannot, therefore, 
pass it on to their daughters. It is to be regretted that 
in some cases mothers seem unwilling to teach their 
daughters, and, it would seem, prevent them from taking any 
responsibility ; in such a case the daughter may marry and 
have a home of her own when she is in a state of almost 
complete ignorance as to its management. In other cases, 
the household duties may be presented in such a way as 
to be irksome or wearisome, so that the girl has an ingrained 
dislike to them, and does not learn as much from her mother 
as she could. 

We are often told of the great household deeds of those 
of former generations how they preserved their foods, 
made their simples, etc. No doubt at that time it was very 
necessary, because there was no other method of procuring 
such commodities. On the other hand, the domestic arrange- 
ments as recorded in books and prints of those times show 
that the houses had very little comfort and were almost 
certainly very insanitary, as judged by modern knowledge. 
The needs and habits of the country have changed, and 
domestic arrangements have changed with them. The 
individual household is no longer so dependent upon its 
own resources as it was, although in rural districts there 
is less change in this respect than in towns or large villages. 

But modern life has brought with it other requirements, 
and the knowledge required in a housewife has become 
extended into fields not dreamed of in the past. The 



THE HOME 3 

housewife of generations ago probably reached a limit of 
knowledge and training roughly equivalent to that of the 
general position of trades or professions as a whole. The 
care of the home appears to have been justly regarded as of 
great importance, and due dignity given to those who were 
responsible for it. 

Unfortunately, the trades and professions have expanded 
and the level of general intelligence has risen in greater pro- 
portion than the knowledge of the average housewife. The 
facilities which are available for modern houses have enlarged 
the sphere of knowledge which the housewife should possess. 
She needs nowadays some knowledge of several branches of 
science, and instruction in many other points if she is to have 
anything which could be considered as an intelligent outlook 
upon her province. It must also be remembered that the 
value of money has been changing for a long time past ; it 
seems probable that many practices of our grandfathers and 
grandmothers would now be regarded as recklessly wasteful 
and extravagant. 

The care of the home must again be raised to the proper 
dignity which it should possess, and for this purpose the 
housewife must be instructed in her duties and must have an 
understanding of the processes involved in the appliances 
which are now available. Further, she must understand the 
relation of the daily habits and practices to health, which of 
them are good and which are not. Often she may have to 
work under difficulties because the house she occupies does 
not provide the facilities ; but matters are improving in this 
respect, and if a housewife knows what she ought to have 
it is the first step towards getting it. 

The whole tendency of the age is towards a simplification 
of labour, and there has been much outcry in recent years 
against the drudgery of housework. Now, while much can 
be done by various devices to reduce the amount of manual 
labour in all trades and professions, yet a small amount of 
work must still be done by the hands. Whatever work be 
done there must inevitably be some form of repetition which 
is often termed drudgery. It is impossible to abolish 



4 HYGIENE 

manual work altogether in a house, but a good deal can be 
done towards it. The proper care of a house and family 
demands knowledge and intelligence, and far too little of 
these are available or exercised by many housewives at the 
present time. 

There are signs that women are beginning to awaken to 
the true dignity of the position of an educated housewife 
who realizes that the best is required of her in the domestic 
arrangements, no less than the best is required of a man who 
would prosper in his work. It is not always realized how 
much a woman does towards making the prosperity or other- 
wise of her husband by the condition in which she keeps his 
home, and by her attitude of mind towards domestic and 
other matters. If a woman would regard herself as a pro- 
fessional worker she would realize at once the importance 
of a high standard for her work and that it should not be her 
only occupation throughout the whole of the day. She 
would then do her work more methodically, and would 
arrange time for mental and physical recreation. 

There are numerous books on household management 
which can be consulted for details on these points. The 
science underlying so many household matters is not always 
appreciated as fully and clearly as it should be, but this is 
slowly improving. In the chapters devoted to the home 
in this book, it will not be possible to deal with detailed 
methods of household work. Attention will rather be de- 
voted to the accommodation and to the facilities which must 
be regarded as necessary for the adequate performance 
of the duties concerned and for the preservation of health. 

The close relation of health to housing conditions has been 
increasingly realized of recent years, and a great and legiti- 
mate outcry has been raised against the grossly insanitary 
conditions under which many people are forced to live. 
Clearly every effort should be made to improve the conditions, 
but it may be borne in mind that the conditions complained 
of were regarded as satisfactory at the time the houses were 
built. At present, through ventilation is considered .a 
necessity; but this was not held in former days. The 






THE HOME 5 

insanitary conditions now so abhorrent to our senses were 
probably all that was regarded as necessary in days gone by. 
The fact that such conditions still exist means that the 
community as a whole does not fully realize their disastrous 
effects on health, and it is probable that they will not be re- 
moved until the housewife makes herself felt as a sanitarian. 

A great deal has been heard in recent years of labour- 
saving devices. For the most part these pieces of apparatus 
are expensive to install and sometimes expensive to work. 
Doubtless with the wider distribution of electricity suitable 
appliances at a less cost will be available for houses and 
will be a great boon to the housewife. At present most of 
the devices are of a time-saving rather than of a labour- 
saving nature There is a close connection of course between 
the two, but there is also a distinction. Of all the time- 
saving devices known it is safe to say that the best and most 
effective of them all is knowledge, coupled with experience. 
If the proper way of doing a thing is known much less time 
is taken over it, and, as experience is gained, the nervous 
system works more quickly and a further reduction of time 
is brought about. If housework is well done it is very 
interesting ; but nothing is more dreary than attempting 
work of which one has no knowledge. Time and effort are 
both wasted and the result obtained is usually discouraging. 
The importance of a knowledge of domestic matters, expand- 
ing in a manner comparable with that of other professions, 
is a real need of the present day. It is felt not only in this 
country but in nearly every country of the world which 
is making any attempts towards progress. It is an encourag- 
ing feature, because the home is the basis of national life. 

The shortage of houses, which has been felt acutely as a 
result of the great war, has brought into prominence the 
standard of domestic accommodation. This standard, 
which had been slowly rising before the war, effected a great 
leap forward in a very short space of time, as a result of the 
- general rise of level of living among the working-class popula- 
tion. What is now regarded as minimal would, in years 
past, have been considered luxurious, and in fact the present 



6 HYGIENE 

" minimal " accommodation can well be regarded as ade- 
quate for any person, from the hygienic standpoint. Some 
extension of the standard may be desirable according to size 
of family, etc., but that given may be taken as suitable for 
any citizen. 

Before the war it was estimated that about 90,000 to 
100,000 houses were built each year; of these some 95 per 
cent, were built by private enterprise and the remaining 
5 per cent, by Local Sanitary Authorities. The Local 
Sanitary Authorities, with one or two exceptions, did not 
build largely, on account of the risk of incurring a considerable 
annual charge on the rates. Public bodies build at financial 
disadvantage in most cases, and it was generally felt to be 
unjustifiable to burden the general rates with the charge of 
houses occupied by only a small section of the community. 
The schemes had to be roughly self-supporting, if undertaken. 
During the war all building of houses was stopped, and the 
Rent Restrictions Act prevented any general rise in the 
rentals of small houses commensurate with the demand for 
them. Meantime the cost of labour and of building materials 
rose to a great price, so that, if houses were to be built as 
commercial enterprises, it would be necessary to charge 
greatly increased tents. There was no chance of obtaining 
such a rent, because the rents of pre-war houses had been 
kept down artificially, and it was felt that the working-class 
population, who were in need of houses, would be neither 
willing, nor, in some cases, able to pay the necessary rent. 
Private enterprise could not therefore build these houses, at 
any rate without subsidy from the State. In order to meet 
the urgent need for houses and the difficulty or impossibility 
of securing their construction by private enterprise, it was 
decided by Parliament that the duty of building the houses 
required should be laid on Local Sanitary Authorities, 
who should be aided by large State grants. In general, the 
Local Sanitary Authority has to provide the money for the 
actual building and the State grant is intended to cover the 
greater part of the deficit on the annual outlay. The rents 
charged are only a small part of the cost incurred each year 



THE HOME 7 

by the Local Sanitary Authority ; but the economic rent - 
that is, one which covered the cost would not be paid by the 
working-class population in view of the relatively low rents 
paid for existing houses. More latterly, subsidies have been 
paid by the State to private builders who were prepared to 
construct houses of suitable type and to conform generally 
with the requirements of the Ministry of Health. The plans 
of the houses built must be approved by the Ministry. In 
order to facilitate their construction, the Ministry set out 
certain model plans, which are valuable aids in the planning 
and general arrangement, and of which some samples are 
given in the following chapters. 

The subsidy will not be continued beyond a certain 
period as yet not fixed, and it may be hoped that, with a 
return of more normal prices and conditions, the housing 
problem will be eased in conformity with the laws of supply 
and demand. 



CHAPTER II 

ON GENERAL AMENITIES AND THE VALUE OF A GARDEN 

THERE are many points which are of importance in the 
general arrangement of new houses. If built in or near a 
town, provision must be made for the occupants to have the 
use of the various services now regarded as forming neces- 
saries of life. Roads are needed, and these should be 
properly finished, and pavements provided. An unmade road 
is often dirty, and the dirty boots and the mud these bring in 
from it add materially to the work of the housewife. Trees 
or shrubs planted in the roads add to the general amenity, 
and, when they are grown, provide a pleasing appearance 
and welcome shade and breeze in summer weather. The 
position occupied by the house is of more importance than 
is generally realized. It is rare in this country that the sun 
is too hot, even in summer, and the presence of sunshine in 
the house makes a great difference to both mental and bodily 
health. Rooms which are to be the chief place of abode of 
the family should not face north. The living-room should 
get such sunshine as is available, and in general the houses 
should be planned so that as many as possible of the living- 
and bed-rooms should have sunlight and warmth. Anyone 
who has been obliged to spend most of their time in a house 
whose main rooms face north will readily appreciate the 
advantage of having sunshine. 

Long rows of houses are dreary and should be avoided. 
Blocks of from two to four houses can be prettily arranged 
and afford greater opportunities for a pleasant lay-out. 
Samples of lay-outs as suggested by the Ministry of Health 
for the new schemes are to be found in the Manual on the 
Preparation of State-aided Housing Schemes l (see fig. i). 

1 Published by H.M.'s Stationery Office, 1919. 




FIG. i. Showing a model lay-out for houses : note the gardens and 
the passages leading to the back. 

(By permission of His Majesty' s Stationery Office.) 




T3 '! 
V 4 






I 'I 



I 

8 - 3 



10 



GENERAL AMENITIES AND VALUE OF GARDEN n 

The one shown in fig. 2 is taken from another publication of 
the Ministry of Health, 1 and demonstrates the adaptation of 
old schemes. This should be compared with fig. 3, showing 
a common form of arrangement of older houses in the middle 
and north of England. 

The following photographs are also of interest as showing 
differences of lay-out. (Cp. figs. 4 and 5.) 

It is usual to keep the ground in front of the house for 
ornamental purposes ; there will be a path up to the front 
door, flowers, grass, or shrubs filling the rest of the 




FIG. 3. The dotted lines show the position of the partition walls between 
the houses. Note the gaps at intervals of every four houses : the sanitary 
accommodation is placed there. 

space. It is useful if a part of the ground at the back 
is laid down with concrete, forming a clean part near the 
house. Out-houses and offices, if built, are usually low, 
and should be connected with the house by a protecting 
roof if possible. It is less usual nowadays than formerly to 
have a projecting part of the house behind, since this may 
keep away some sunlight, and somewhat prevents free 
ventilation. The tendency is to arrange for all the offices 
to be inside the walls of the house proper. The back part 
should either be paved or used as a garden and be well kept. 

1 Housing, September 13, 1919. 










o 

a 



I 



<j 

TT 

6 





12 




111 

bo < 



8vf 

"3 I 

O i*- 

O iS* 



s: 

s & 



w^ * 

iSi 

w % I 



ff'S 



o 

a 
t 



14 HYGIENE 

The paths should be made up, and should not be left 
untidy and dirty. All this makes a difference when there 
are little children continually running in and out, who 
will make themselves and their clothes dirty with great 
ease if the path or garden-plot is in a bad condition. In 
addition, such unmade areas tend to become rubbish-heaps, 
and the soil gets trodden and sour ; further, they retain the 
damp and are a source of ill-health. An important point 
in the situation of a house is that of dampness or dryness. 
Houses should not be below the level of a river, or too near 
any low-lying water. The close vicinity of large trees will 
also make a house damp, because the drip from the trees 
will fall on the house and large, heavy trees remain damp for 
some time after the rain has ceased. 

A damp house is usually an unhealthy house. There are 
domestic difficulties because the food keeps very badly, and 
is a source of constant worry to the housewife. The rooms 
do not feel dry and cheerful, for a damp room always tends 
to be gloomy and chilly ; generally speaking, it means, for 
some reason or another, that the sun is not able to reach it 
for long in the day. Houses in valleys get less sun than 
those on a hill. Dampness has an effect on the general 
health of the inhabitants, tending to rheumatic troubles ; 
also tuberculosis is not uncommonly associated with damp- 
ness, which presumably lowers the general powers of resist- 
ance to disease. 

It is a pity that the rain-water falling on the roof is so 
seldom collected in towns, but allowed to run away into 
the drains. Rain-water, it is true, may be somewhat dirty, 
but if it is led into a proper cistern or covered barrel it can 
be used for washing. This is a great advantage and economy 
to the housewife, as it requires less soap, and cleanses the 
body and clothes more rapidly than the water from the 
general supply, which is practically always harder than rain- 
water. In country districts the rain-water is very frequently 
collected, being allowed to run into a large barrel or tank in 
the back yard. The receptacle should be kept covered to 
avoid the dropping in of dead leaves and other matter. 



GENERAL AMENITIES AND VALUE OF GARDEN 15 

The dust-bin should stand in the back yard in towns, duly 
covered with a well-fitting lid, and reasonably accessible to 
the dust-man. In some districts the dust-bin is fixed in the 
wall, access being gained by the housewife on the inside and 
the dust-man on the outside. Samples of sanitary bins and 
of an insanitary rubbish-heap are shown in figs. 6 and 7. 

Narrow back roads passing between the back yards or 
gardens of rows of houses are seldom well kept, but are 
frequently the place for the collection of refuse which has 
gradually accumulated and not been removed, as is done in 
the main road. As a whole, it is found preferable to arrange 
for passages from the main road giving access to the back 



NOTICE 

DRY ASHES ONLY 

NO LIQUID 




FIG. 6. Samples of sanitary bins. C is fixed into the wall. 

parts, without going through the house. There is then no 
need for a back road. This is seen in fig. i. 

Too often in the past the amenities of life have not been 
considered, and houses have been built in any nook or corner, 
without through ventilation, and in a position where the 
ordinary conveniences of life were almost impossible of 
provision. 

The number of houses allowed to the acre under the new 
schemes is twelve in the town and eight in the more rural 
areas. This provides sufficient space for both a front and 
back garden or yard, and gives plenty of air and opportunity 
for obtaining sunlight. These pieces of land are of great 
value to the occupiers. If there are infants or quite young 



16 HYGIENE 

children in the family, they can be put out in the peram- 
bulator in the garden. They can be sufficiently under the 
mother's eye to make it safe, and the child's health benefits 
greatly. The garden, both front and back, provides flowers 
and green vegetables, together with the healthful exercise 
and pleasant occupation necessary to produce them. On 
washing days the housewife can hang her clothes out on a 
line in the back yard and garden, thus relieving the kitchen 
of the steam from the drying clothes. In many cases, 
too, pets will be kept in the yard, all providing interest 
and instruction for the children. In some places larger 
animals will no doubt be found. One district councillor 
in Yorkshire recently publicly expressed his opinion that 
a pigsty outside the house would be more useful than a 
bathroom inside it, there being only a limited amount of 
money available an opinion which at least shows the value 
of pigs to the family, in his mind, and probably in that 
of many others. 

The advantages of a garden just enumerated have slightly 
different weight in town and country. In the country the 
family will probably be dependent on their garden for the 
supply of their vegetables, whereas in the town green foods 
can be purchased. There may be allotments, which will 
enable them to grow sufficient for the family needs ; but in 
most cases they will prefer to have the garden for this pur- 
pose, since it is more convenient. It is by no means always 
easy to buy fruit and vegetables in small quantities in the 
country ; but these are important, even essential, articles of 
diet. There will be greater freedom in the kind of animals 
or birds kept in the country, because the area of the garden 
will be larger, and also because the fowls, if kept, can 
frequently wander into adjacent fields or roads. 

Then, again, the garden serves as a means of dis- 
posing of refuse of all sorts. In a town the domestic 
refuse is collected, or should be collected, regularly by the 
Local Sanitary Authority. In the country such arrange- 
ments are often too expensive ; the housewife must deal 
with it herself, and the garden will be the better for 



mil 

\~. rf? taia&* -* 




i8 HYGIENE 

receiving the refuse. There should not be a great deal 
of material to dispose of, although there will always be a 
little. Some can be burnt, and the fowls or pigs, if these are 
kept, will eat most of the rest, especially if the harder parts 
are cooked. But cabbage stalks and such-like will remain, 
and there will be ashes from the fires which must be disposed 
of. Too often they are tossed into a specially prepared open 
pit, or ash-place, or are even thrown in a heap, and there left 
to rot under the influence of the sun and the weather. The 
ash-place will attract dogs, who will scratch about in it, 
scattering the refuse and becoming themselves covered with 
pieces of the decaying substances. The flies also will come 
and will breed there, constituting a menace to health, and 
causing much nuisance and general discomfort. 

If any form of receptacle for refuse is used outside the 
house it should be a metal bin with a properly fitting 
lid, which last must be kept always in its proper position 
on the bin. The ashes can be kept separated and used 
for the garden paths, or, if the soil be very heavy, some 
ashes may be used for lightening it. The vegetable 
and other refuse should be deposited in a trench in the 
garden. The trench need not be very deep, and can 
gradually be filled in day by day with refuse. The refuse 
must, however, not be left uncovered but must have several 
inches of earth over it, and earth must also be placed at the 
end, as it were, of the refuse thrown in each day. The earth 
prevents the access of flies a matter of great importance. 
The refuse has some manurial value, and will be decomposed 
in the ground, returning again to its original elements, so 
that after a while it will be amalgamated with the soil. A 
part of the garden should be available for the trench, and, 
when this is full, another trench can be dug elsewhere and 
the area of the filled-up trench can shortly afterwards be 
used for growing vegetables. 

Fowls and pigs should have their dwelling-places kept 
clean, both because they thrive better if thus kept, and also 
to avoid the breeding of flies or* of vermin in the poultry 
place or pig-shed. The refuse from green vegetables which 



GENERAL AMENITIES AND VALUE OF GARDEN 19 

cannot be used for the domestic stockpot can be boiled and 
mixed with the other soft food for the hens. For the pigs it 
is probably waste of time to boil the material. Hens, how- 
ever, take a long time to eat hard pieces of refuse, such, 
for example, as cauliflower-leaves or cabbage-stalks, which 
thus lie about looking untidy for several days. If, however, 
these are cut up and boiled they are readily eaten. Most 
other varieties of domestic refuse which cannot be given to 
animals can be burnt on the fire. 

Offal, when present, is best buried in the garden, and this 
may also be the fate of refuse which is not burned or given 
to the fowls. Thus, with a little trouble, there should be no 
accumulation of waste material in or near the house. Flies 
will breed in any such place, and flies are the carriers of 
disease germs, in addition to making the walls and other 
parts of the house dirty. Real cleanliness is almost impos- 
sible where flies are present in large numbers. The essential 
point is that there should be no breeding-grounds for flies, and 
this the housewife can secure by the above simple measures. 

The refuse which has been considered hitherto is the dry 
refuse from kitchens and fires, but there are other forms of 
waste material, where the garden is equally or more useful 
as a means of disposing of it. 

The excreta, both solid and liquid, should in a town be 
removed by the water-carriage system. Unfortunately, 
especially in the North of England, this is by no means 
always the case, and further reference will be made to this. 
The inhabitants of a house in the town cannot themselves 
make provision for the removal of their refuse, but are 
dependent upon the arrangements made by the Local 
Sanitary Authority and by the landlord. In the country, 
the excreta must be dealt with by the householders. Too 
often, even now, a hole is dug in the ground, and a little 
shed with a door is provided, a seat with a hole and a lid 
being built in the shed over the hole. The excreta are 
deposited in the hole and left to filter through the earth 
or to decompose, as the case may be. This is thoroughly 
unsatisfactory for several reasons. 



20 



HYGIENE 



In the first place, the fluid may contaminate the water- 
supply by filtering through the soil into the area from 
which the water-supply to the well is derived. If the 
well be a deep one taken, that is to say, through the top 
layer of soil the risk is less great ; but if a shallow well 
is used that is, one in the top layer of soil then the risk 
is very real. The distance apart that is, the relative 
position of the two places will alone provide the margin of 
safety. In any case, the well should be placed above the 



Front Garden 




FIG. 8. Showing how the water-supply of a house may be polluted 
owing to a wrong position of the privy. 

closet, so that the contamination does not filter into it, and 
they should be as far away from each other as possible. 
Fig. 8 shows the relative positions which will give rise to 
pollution. The position should be reversed. 

Then, again, it will almost certainly be productive of 
bad odours and be a breeding-place for flies. If the lid were 
always kept on the seat, so that the flies could not enter, 
this might be avoided. But flies breed freely on excrement, 
and generally they will gain access to the closet and breed 
there. 






GENERAL AMENITIES AND VALUE OF GARDEN 21 

The best form of receptacle for excreta in a country 
house is the earth- or ash-closet. It may be provided either 
inside or outside the house. There is no odour, and its 
only disadvantage is that it requires attention and a little 
trouble. If placed outside, the closet should be adjacent to 
the house, and any part of the yard which may have to be 
traversed should have an overhead shelter from the rain. 
The floor should preferably be of concrete, slightly raised 
at one part near the back whereupon to receive the pail. 
The pail is placed on the elevated part, and a hinged 
seat should be fixed to the back wall of the shed so that 
it can be pulled down and lie over the pail when required 
for use. Near by there should be a box or other receptacle 
with earth or ashes, and a shovel is also needed. Each 
time after use earth must be thrown over the excreta so 
as to cover them adequately. The pail should be emptied 
at sufficient intervals, depending upon the amount of use, 
but should not be left for more than three days. The 
contents can be emptied into the same trench as receives 
the dry refuse already referred to and the method of use of 
which has already been explained. By this means no nuisance 
arises and the whole closet can be kept clean and sweet. 

Portable earth-closets can be bought which have a place 
for the pail and an upper part behind which will contain 
earth or ashes (see fig. 9). This is fitted with a valve, 
which can be opened by pulling a plug at the side or 
back of the seat, and the earth or ashes fall on to the 
excreta. In some ways this is convenient, but hygienically 
it has no advantage over the box and shovel. The portable 
closet can be placed in any shed or suitable room. The earth- 
" closet must be clearly differentiated from the pail-closet. 
These are merely pails without any earth or ashes, which are 
emptied at intervals (often too infrequent) by the Local 
Sanitary Authority. They are very unhygienic, and the 
emptying is costly. There is a wide distinction between 
the clean, frequently emptied earth-closet and the pail which 
is used merely as a receptacle for excreta and emptied, say, 
twice a week or even less frequently. 



22 



HYGIENE 



Another method used in the country is the water-closet 
with cesspool. Theoretically the cesspool is supposed to be 
water-tight and to be emptied at frequent intervals. Actually, 
however, this is almost impossible, and the cesspool is not 
water-tight, the fluid draining away through the ground. If 
the cesspool be near the well there is great risk of con- 
tamination of the water-supply. It should be mentioned 
that, in selecting the ground for entrenchment for the con- 




FIG. 9. A portable earth-closet. 

tents of the pail, the area near the well, if there is one in 
the garden, should not be used for making trenches. Also 
cesspools or pits should be placed as far away as possible 
from the water-supply, and, if the ground is sloping, the well 
should be above the pit. The contaminated material should 
drain away from the well as it passes through the ground. 

In the absence of a garden the use of an earth-closet in 
the country is almost impossible, both on account of the 
difficulty of obtaining earth and also of disposing of the 
contents of the pail. Neighbouring farmers are sometimes 



GENERAL AMENITIES AND VALUE OF GARDEN 23 

willing to make an agreement to remove the refuse, which 
has some manurial value. 

There is yet one other waste material which can be dis- 
posed of in the garden, namely, dirty water. This will come 
from personal washing, the scrubbing, and house generally. 
The waste water from the kitchen and the bath is led out of 
the house by a pipe, which usually discharges over a gully. 
The water is led away to soak into the earth. If the weather 
is dry and the waste water small in amount, no trouble may 
arise. Sometimes, however, the ground gets water-logged 
and the waste water is not filtered away, so that the earth 
becomes muddy, and the organic waste in the dirty water 
may decompose and produce a disagreeable odour. The 
area over which the waste water soaks in should be reason- 
ably large. Perforated bricks, arranged so as to form a 
gully, are easily provided and allow the water to enter the 
ground over a large area. The fluid will run along the gully, 
losing some of its volume as it passes over the perforations. 
The cottage housewife can often be seen throwing the con- 
tents of her pail to some distance in a wide curve. She has 
realized the advantages of a larger area of distribution. 

The water from baths and wash-basins, if the rain has not 
fallen plentifully in summer-time, can be poured on to the 
flowers and vegetables, thus utilizing waste to produce 
growth. Kindly mother Earth receives the waste and 
converts it to useful purposes, so that refuse causes growth 
and the herbs can be used as food, the stage of refuse being 
only one phase in the larger cycle. 



CHAPTER III 

ON ACCOMMODATION AND OTHER GENERAL POINTS 
IN THE HOME 

THE precise amount of accommodation required in the 
home will vary somewhat with the size of the family. In 
this chapter the general assumption will be made that the 
family consists of the two parents and of from two to four 
children. The differences in accommodation will thus be 
mainly those for sleeping, the other rooms needed being 
very similar, whatever the size of the family. There should be 
not less than three bedrooms one for the parents and one 
for the girls and a third for the boys of the family. If the 
family is very large further accommodation will be needed. 

Various types of accommodation, according to aspect and 
plan of living-rooms, have been set out by the Ministry of 
Health, and are reproduced in figs. 10-13. They should be 
referred to in reading the text of this chapter. l 

As a rule, except perhaps in bungalows in rural areas, the 
living-rooms will be downstairs and the bedrooms upstairs. 
There is considerable difference of opinion as to the desira- 
bility of one or two living-rooms. Some people think that 
one large living-room is preferable to one smaller kitchen and 
parlour. Where space is limited it is hardly possible to 
provide two good rooms. If the kitchen is to be used as a 
general living-room, then there should be a good scullery 
leading out of the kitchen (cp. fig. 10), where small dishes, at 
any rate, can be cooked and all the washing-up and other 
dirty jobs carried out. The living-room must be kept reason- 
ably tidy and comfortable. In winter it will be warm, as the 
fire will be used for cooking ; in summer, unless gas is avail- 
able, it may be too hot. In towns at the present time gas 
is largely used for cooking in summer, and in the country 

1 These plans are reproduced by permission of His Majesty's Stationery 
Office. 

24 



ACCOMMODATION AND OTHER GENERAL POINTS 25 

the heat is seldom so great as in the towns. If the house 
faces north the one living-room may be carried right through 




21' 6V - 
GROUND FLOOR, 

FIG. 10. Plan of houses with one living -room and three bedrooms. 
Frontage to the south. Note that the larder faces north. 

the house, so that it gets good through ventilation and 
sunshine (cp. fig. n). 

There is much also to be said in favour of two living- 



26 



HYGIENE 



rooms, in spite of the rather general assertion as to the 
small use made of the parlour (cp. fig. 12). It is a change 
to have a second room for work or for those members 
of the family who have to study or who are working for 
any special purpose, or in which to entertain their friends. 




FI5L5T FLOOR, PLAN 




GROUND PLOOL PLAW 



FIG. ii. Plan of houses with one living-room and three bedrooms. 
Frontage faces north. Note that the living-room is carried right across 
the house to secure direct sunlight, and that the larder is placed to the 
front, facing north. 

Generally it seems that there is a preference for two living- 
rooms, even though each room be of less size than the one 
large living-room. 

It is of importance, in planning the doors and place for 
the fire, to avoid draughts. It is not always possible to 



ACCOMMODATION AND OTHER GENERAL POINTS 27 

provide a lobby both at front and back, and the door out 
of the living-room may open directly on to the garden 
or road. If the door on the other side of the room is 
badly arranged in respect of the front door there may be a 




GROUND FLOOE PLAN 



FIG. 12. Plan of houses with two living-rooms and four bedrooms. ' 
Frontage faces south. 

draught right across the room. If, further, the fireplace 
be set in the line of the draught, it may be impossible to 
keep warm in the room. So far as may be, the door or doors 
should be kept at one end or side of the room and the fire' 
place at the other. There will almost inevitably be a draught 



28 HYGIENE 

between the doors, and these should be as far as possible away 
from the fire, around which the occupants will sit to keep 
warm in winter. The position of the doors on the plans should 
be noted in illustration of this point. The outside doors do 
not open directly into the living-rooms, and the inside doors 
to these rooms are not placed directly opposite the outside 
ones. The side door in place of the front door is often good, 
as shown in figs. 12 and 13. The windows must be of 
sufficient size to admit plenty of light and sunshine, and must 
be capable of being well opened to admit the air. Windows 
down to the ground are nice to look at, but they are always 
somewhat draughty, and rooms with these windows are rarely 
warm in winter. 

Some of the older houses, found even now in the Mid- 
lands and elsewhere, had no windows capable of opening 
in the lower rooms. In many cases a small window has 
now been made to open, so as to secure some ventilation. 
In the back- to-back houses (cp. fig. 3, p. n), still found in 
thousands in the Midlands and North of England, no through 
ventilation is possible, because the same wall forms the back 
wall of the two houses. There is one living-room on the ground 
floor, often opening directly on to the street, through which 
some change of the air in the room is secured. Even with 
the best intentions, by keeping the door open as much as 
possible, it seems very difficult to obtain any appreciable 
circulation of air in the back part of the room ; after a little 
experience, back-to-back houses can be identified as such on 
entering them by the smell and general atmosphere of the 
living-room. Some ventilation, it is true, occurs through 
the crannies in doors and windows. Some air also passes 
through the walls, but in insufficient amounts to replace the 
need for a through current of air at suitable times. 

It is usual to have the floors of the parlour and bedrooms of 
wood, but the kitchen and scullery floors may be of tiles or 
flat bricks. In any case these latter should be used for the 
offices, but there are certain other considerations in regard to 
the kitchen floor. Tiled floors are less trouble to clean than 
wooden floors ; but they are cold in winter. Another disad- 



ACCOMMODATION AND OTHER GENERAL POINTS 29 

vantage lies in the fact that the tiles are harder, and any 
crockery or other breakable article which is dropped on to 
a tiled floor is nearly always broken beyond repair, which is 
not the case on a wooden floor. Tiles wear longer than wood, 




FR.ONT ELEVATION 




SECTION AB 



SIDE ELEVATION 



FIG. 13. Elevations and section of the houses of fig. 12. 

and are generally regarded as being more hygienic. But 
much depends on the housewife and on the condition of the 
floors. There are tiled floors in old houses where the tiles 
have been laid practically on the ground and where, when 



30 HYGIENE 

they get loose and worn, they allow of the dirt coming up 
between the edges and give much trouble to keep clean. 

Boards, however, if they are badly worn, are sometimes 
dangerous. In certain of the poorer houses in the worst 
districts the boards are worn and rotten, and there are 
actual holes in the floors which show underneath the ac- 
cumulated dust of many years, while the state of the 
boards is a constant danger to the small children and even 
to the elders of the family. As a council of perfection, the 
angles of junction of the walls and floor should be rounded. 
This prevents the dust from sticking at the junction and 
enables the housewife to clean easily. Unfortunately this 
can only be regarded as a luxury at the present time on 
account of the high initial cost of providing the curved 
parts. 

The high cost of wall-paper has tended to increase the 
use of distemper of various kinds in place of paper for the 
walls of both living and bedrooms. There are advantages 
in distemper over wall-paper, although some people like the 
patterns provided by the wall-paper. Many of the present- 
day varieties of distemper can be washed and the walls 
kept clean for a number of years. Redistempering is less 
expensive than repapering. For this reason distemper is 
preferable for offices where use and the need for special 
cleanliness makes frequent rewashing necessary. If wall- 
paper is used one layer should not be placed on the top of 
the other, thus merely covering up dirt and not removing 
it. Plaster sometimes gives trouble, when it begins to 
fall away. If it gets into really bad condition it may be 
continually crumbling, making much work to keep the 
room clean. 

Flies are a cause of great difficulty and trouble to the 
cleanly housewife. If the house is near one of the breeding- 
places, such as a privy midden or a rubbish-heap, they will 
make the walls and furniture very dirty. Everyone is 
familiar with the excrement al deposits left by flies and the 
trouble there is to remove them. 

The scullery should be adjacent to and open out of the 



ACCOMMODATION AND OTHER GENERAL POINTS 31 

kitchen. It can face north, as there is no object in securing 
sunlight, since it will not be occupied for more than short 
periods ; the light should, however, be good. The scullery 
should be provided with -a sink and draining-boards, and a 
plate-rack over the sink. There should be a copper for 
boiling clothes or to provide a good supply of hot water ; 
if preferred, the copper may be in the bathroom (cp. figs. 10 
and 11). In either case the copper should be arranged so 
that it can supply the hot water for the bath if necessary. 
The form of the sink will vary : there are shallow sinks and 
deep sinks. The former cannot be used for washing up, but 
a basin or pan can be placed in the sink. The deep sink can 
itself be used for washing up, or a receptacle can be used in 
it. It can also be used for rinsing clothes, and is generally 
more useful than the shallow sink. The chief reason that 
the shallow sink is widely used is that of the cost ; the 
initial outlay is greater on the deep sink, and it is therefore 
more costly to replace if it is cracked or broken. The waste- 
pipe from the sink should, in a large house at any rate, be 
fitted with a grease-trap. This is, in effect, merely a chamber 
in which the grease in the waste water can lise to the top of 
the fluid and be removed at frequent intervals. 

Sink-pipes should not get blocked up nor have a disagreeable 
smell, even in hot weather, nor is any deodorant or disinfect- 
ant needed, if proper care and attention are given. The waste 
water from the first washing of plates, dishes, etc., should be 
poured through the sanitary basket, which should be found 
in every household. This holds back the large particles, 
which can be removed and thrown into the waste-pail or bin. 
When waste-pipes are blocked it is nearly always due to 
carelessness; either large shreds from the swabs used for 
washing up and cleaning, or pieces of soap, are thrown down 
the sink with dirty water that is, the sanitary basket is not 
used. Hot fat is sometimes thrown away, when it should 
be collected, and it then cools in the pipe, or by some other 
careless act the sink is allowed to become blocked. If the 
sanitary basket is always used and kept clean, and the 
sink itself and any other receptacle used for washing up 



32 HYGIENE 

are also kept clean, both outside and inside, there will be 
no smell at all from the sink. This only arises when de- 
composition is in progress, and means that an accumulation 
of putrescible material has been allowed. 

The sink should have a supply of both cold and hot 
water, which last may be obtained either from the kitchen- 
range or from the copper. A good supply of hot water is 
essential for proper cleanliness, and the unfortunate house- 
wife who may be condemned to wash up numerous plates 
and dishes with hot water obtained only from a small kettle 
expends unnecessary labour and will find it difficult to pro- 
duce satisfactory results. A good supply of hot water 
must be regarded as a requisite of life, and a plentiful 
supply of cold water is, of course, necessary. 

It is convenient for the bathroom to be near the kitchen 
or scullery on account of the hot water supply. There are 
differences of opinion as to the necessity of providing bath- 
rooms in all working-class dwellings. There is no question 
that personal cleanliness can be maintained without a bath, 
but at the same time it is greatly facilitated by being able 
to wash the whole body at one time. In addition, there are 
other aspects of a bath which are dealt with in Chapter VII. 
It is very generally agreed that bathrooms should be available 
in any satisfactory new house. It is not enough to provide 
merely a bath in the scullery, as has frequently been done. 
The bath in the past was often fixed without proper hot. and 
cold water supply and sometimes without drainage. Over it 
was a table- top or shelf hinged to the wall, which could be 
lowered or raised at will. The bath was perhaps in a draught 
between the window and the door, and little, if any, privacy 
obtainable. It can hardly be wondered at that, in the 
circumstances, the bath was more often used as a store 
cupboard than as a bath, especially if the house was 
deficient in storage accommodation a not unusual con- 
dition. The bathroom must be private, and adequate 
facilities for bathing provided. 

Sanitary arrangements are of great importance, and are 
usually placed in proximity to the bathroom. The object 



ACCOMMODATION AND OTHER GENERAL POINTS 33 

of this is to economize piping, since both require waste- 
pipes, and the plumbing work is reduced by keeping the waste- 
pipes near one another, although the systems must be kept 
separate till they enter the main drain. 

The only satisfactory system in a town is the water- 
carriage system. This needs a plentiful water-supply, but 
in the long run is probably no more expensive than any other 
system. The excreta must be dealt with in some way or 
other, since they may not be passed untreated into a river. 
The only clean hygienic way of dealing with them is to remove 
them as soon as may be from the premises. The water- 
carriage system conveys them direct to sewage works of 
one kind or another, where the treatment used renders the 
whole innocuous. In the country this method cannot be 
used and the earth-closet has already been described. 

Where the excreta are not removed at once the " conserv- 
ancy system" is employed; some forms of conservancy are 
worse than others, but all are unsatisfactory and should not 
be tolerated in a town. The two chief forms are the privy and 
the pail closet. The privy is the worse of the two, and it is 
surprising that it should have been allowed to persist up to 
the present time. In general it is combined with a midden, 
or ash-place ; the theory apparently having been that the 
ashes could be used as covering for the excreta. A shed is 
usually provided with a partition extending inside from the 
top angle of the roof to within some inches or rather more of 
the floor ; this last is of concrete. On one side of the parti- 
tion a seat is provided and on the other the domestic refuse 
is collected. Both sides of the shed have doors, the one for 
the closet, and on the other side usually two doors, a large 
lower one and a small upper one. The lower one is for the 
dustman when he comes to remove the refuse, and the upper 
one for the housewife. 

Even under good conditions the arrangement would be 
unhygienic, as in effect it amounts to an accumulation 
of excreta on the one side and of domestic refuse on 
the other, there being little or no contact between the 
two. If these places were emptied frequently the evil 
3 



34 HYGIENE 

would be reduced ; but unfortunately, owing to their size, 
this is not absolutely necessary, and in some places they are 
emptied as seldom as every six weeks or even three months. 
During the intervals decomposition and the flies work their 
will, with the result that the air is nearly always vitiated and 
malodorous, and in the warm weather the flies render life 
in the adjoining houses almost intolerable. 

It is difficult to describe at all accurately the position of 
the occupants of houses near a privy midden in warm 
weather. The smell is nauseating and the flies ubiquitous. 
The housewife cannot by any number of fly-papers keep her 
walls and furniture free from them, and everything is soiled 
almost as soon as it has been cleaned. They alight in numbers 
everywhere, even on the sleeping infant, and of course on 
any kind of foodstuff lying in any accessible place. These 
flies come direct from the privy, where they have been bred, 
and their legs and bodies are laden with the bacteria among 
which they have lived. In warm weather in this country 
the fly goes through all its stages from the egg to the insect 
in about ten days, although this may be shorter and in cool 
weather is longer. If flies are to be prevented from breeding, 
no rubbish should be left for more than seven days, in order 
to avoid giving time for the eggs to develop. The whole is 
well demonstrated in the picture of which fig. 14 is a copy. 

There is no doubt that these insanitary arrangements, 
which are still common in the North of England, are produc- 
tive of much sickness, especially among infants ; but these are 
not the only persons concerned. The general health of the 
whole family cannot fail to be affected. There are other 
practical points about these privy middens which add to 
their general obj ectionableness, but enough will have been 
said to show how undesirable they are from the hygienic 
and domestic aspects. 

The only advantage of pail closets is that, being smaller, 
they must of necessity be emptied more frequently ; but they 
are thoroughly insanitary and require to be abolished. 

The insanitary conditions which arise from arrangements 
such as these are shown in the accompanying figs. 15 and 16. 



KILL THOSE FLIES! 



A HOW FLIES BREED 

AND FEED * 



' The Fly Road From 
Closet Pan 8. Dustbin v 
to Dinner table 

X * 




FIG. 14. Poster showing the breeding of flies ; their breeding grounds 
and the way in which contamination is carried by flies. 



35 




FIG. 15. Middens in the North of England. Note the heap of 
refuse and the general condition of the doors. 




37 



38 HYGIENE 

The waste-water closet is used in some districts, but is not 
satisfactory. It was believed that it would effect a great 
economy of water. The waste water from the house is 
carried by pipes into a receptacle which is balanced so 
that, when full to a certain level, it tips over, discharging 
its contents into another pipe which enters the side of 
the closet -pan, and the water flushes out the trap below 
the pan. The trouble is that the upper part of the pan 
gets soiled and thoroughly disagreeable and the pieces 
often allowed to run away in the waste water tend to block 
the trap of the closet. Thus, they often require attention, 
and sanitary inspectors state that the amount of water 
used in unblocking is in the aggregate probably as great as 
would be used by a proper water-carriage system. In spite 
of these drawbacks, some localities still adhere to this form 
of closet. 

Domestic hygiene and the comfort of the home are closely 
connected with the disposal of refuse, as well as the general 
health of the inhabitants. The water-closet alone can be 
regarded as satisfactory in a town, and the refuse should be 
collected frequently from a good form of bin. The closet 
may be inside or outside the house, and may be on the ground- 
floor or upstairs, according to the arrangement of the plans. 
It should have through ventilation with a window on to the 
outer air that is to say, it must not ventilate into the house 
and should not be in the centre of the house even if there is a 
ventilating shaft leading up from it. This last arrangement is 
not uncommon in old good-class houses. The window should 
not be near the larder, and the whole should if possible not 
be too near the living-rooms. Sometimes the w.c. is placed 
in the bathroom, but this has disadvantages for all but a very 
small family. The pan should be of porcelain and should 
not be boarded round, free access for cleaning being most 
desirable. Details as to the forms of closets can be found in 
text-books on general hygiene. 

The place for coals should be accessible both to the coal- 
man and to the housewife, and a cupboard for brooms, -etc., 
is almost essential. The bedrooms will be upstairs and 



ACCOMMODATION AND OTHER GENERAL POINTS 39 

should, as already stated, be three in number when there is 
a mixed family. 

It is important that the staircase should be well lighted. 
The stairs should not wind, if possible, and should be of 
sufficient breadth and not too steep. The Ministry of 
Health lays down the requirements of not less than nine 
inches for the tread, and a rise of not more than seven 
and a half inches for each stair. 

The other requirements are dealt with in the next chapter. 



CHAPTER IV 

ON THE STORAGE OF FOOD, WATER-SUPPLY, HEATING, ETC. 

ADEQUATE provision for the storage of food is an essential 
for any house which is to be regarded as conforming to 
standards of hygienic needs. The far-reaching ill effects on 
the health of the family are not always appreciated, and it 
seems advisable to go into the position somewhat carefully. 

There should be a larder for the storage of perishable 
foods, and a cupboard elsewhere for keeping dry stores. 
The larder should have a north aspect if possible, and, failing 
that, east, but not west and certainly not south. It needs 
to be cool and not exposed to the sun ; hence the north is 
preferable, but the east is next best. It should have a stone 
or brick floor, and if possible the shelves should be of stone 
or slate. Good ventilation is essential and the currents of 
air should pass right through the larder. The door must fit 
well so as to prevent the entrance of flies either under it or 
through crannies elsewhere. Some ventilating place is 
desirable in the door, and ventilating grating of various kinds 
can be fitted into it and into the lower parts of the wall so 
as to secure passage of air in the lower portions of the larder. 
The window must be of sufficient size ; all the openings for 
light or ventilation either by door, window, or grating must 
either be filled in with perforated metal sheets or be covered 
with gauze or muslin, so as to prevent the entrance of flies or 
other insects, or of dust and debris. 

Frames upon which muslin can be stretched, can be 
made for fitting in to the ventilating spaces as soon as the 
weather becomes warm, or they can be kept in position all 
the year round. It must be remembered that the gauze will 
soon get dirty and must be cleaned as often as may be required. 
If the larder is not really fly-proof it will be necessary to 

4 o 



STORAGE OF FOOD, WATER-SUPPLY, HEATING 41 

cover up all the food, either with fine wire covers or with 
muzlin or gauze supported on a framework, under which the 
food can be placed. 

Dampness is undesirable in a larder, and trees, if planted 
near it, should not be so close as to drip on to it or keep the 
walls moist. Food does not keep well in a damp atmosphere, 
and moulds grow readily. The housewife has to contend 
against bacteria at all times of the year, but in winter they 
multiply more slowly than in the warmth of summer, so that 
their presence is less noticeable. Damp weather keeps down 
the dust, so that there are fewer bacteria in the air ; but a 
damp larder encourages the growth of moulds, the spores of 
which are found almost everywhere. 

The larder is not suitable for storing dry groceries, for 
which another place should be available. This should 
preferably be in a position where it is dry and not too warm. 
It does not need to have any special arrangements for 
ventilation. It will be convenient for the housewife if this 
is placed either in or near the kitchen, so that she has not far 
to go for her stores. The modern kitchen cabinets are in 
effect small store-rooms and contain spaces for the commoner 
articles needed for daily use. These cabinets usually have 
a hinged or sliding shelf on which a good deal of the prepara- 
tion of the food can be carried out, such as the mixing and 
rolling of pastry, and are undoubtedly convenient although 
somewhat costly at the present time. 

If there is no larder the housewife is labouring under very 
serious disadvantages. She has no place in which perishable 
foods can be stored before cooking, so that she must pur- 
chase only when she wants to cook. Again, she has no 
suitable place to store the food which is left over after the 
meal. It will not keep good very long in the hot air of the 
kitchen, and the tendency will be to buy just enough for 
the one occasion. This means that fresh food must be 
purchased each day, involving a good deal of trouble both 
in the purchasing and in the cooking. It is, moreover, 
usually a good deal more expensive than buying in larger 
quantities, and keeping some over for use on the next or 



42 HYGIENE 

even on the following day. Made-up dishes are difficult 
to arrange in the absence of any place in which to store 
food, so that variety of menu is less likely to be found than 
where storage accommodation is present. 

The visitor entering the house of some of the poorer work- 
ing people will not infrequently see the remains of food left 
out on the table in the kitchen exposed to the dust and dirt 
and flies. Her first impulse will be mentally to condemn 
the housewife as careless and extravagant. But inquiry 
may show that there is literally no cool place for storage 
and that the only cupboard is adjacent to the kitchen 
fire. Doubtless with ingenuity and determination some 
sort of place can be contrived. But it is hardly fair to 
expect a housewife, who perhaps has never known the 
advantages of proper facilities for storage either in the 
home of her childhood or after marriage, to be very ener- 
getic in providing herself with such accommodation. She 
has accepted its absence as a part of the scheme of life. 
Inevitably she tends to buy ready-cooked food or tinned 
goods. These provide her with variety of food and at little 
trouble. They may be more expensive, but will probably 
not cost much more than she would need to spend on fresh 
purchases every day, although of course much less nourish- 
ing. Those who deplore the popularity of the fried fish and 
chip shops and the ready-cooked meat shops would do well 
to make inquiries into the facilities for storage and even for 
cooking in the houses of those who patronize the shops. 

In many houses the only cupboard is built into the wall at 
the side of the kitchen chimney. Here the temperature is 
continually kept high by the hot air from the fire. Dry 
goods like sugar and flour can be kept for a time in these 
cupboards, but perishable goods will not keep long in a warm 
atmosphere. The absence of storage will therefore fre- 
quently lead to an unsuitable dietary. Good hot meals 
properly served will probably be a Sunday luxury, and the 
rest of the week, the family, except perhaps the husband, 
will feed on pieces, or on cooked or tinned foods, warmed, up 
for the occasion, and probably rendered palatable with 



STORAGE OF FOOD, WATER-SUPPLY, HEATING 43 

pickles or vinegar. A nourishing, well-cooked, and varied 
menu under the conditions described is a matter of such 
difficulty as to daunt all but the exceptional housewife. 
The casual meal made on a badly balanced diet will too 
frequently be provided in houses where storage facilities are 
lacking. It is not suggested that the provision of storage 
facilities would at once produce a suitable diet, but genera- 
tions brought up in houses where the housewife works at a 
disadvantage cannot suddenly change their habits. This 
does not render it any less necessary to improve the condi- 
tions which are unsatisfactory. 

It is impossible to say how much of the malnutrition and 
ill-health found among the poorer working classes is due to 
any one special factor ; there can be little doubt that the 
methods of feeding are often one of the causes, and this 
depends not a little on the methods of storage which are 
available. In the plans shov/n on figs. 10, n, and 12 the 
larders are well arranged and are on the north side of the 
house, whether the aspect of the house be north or south. 
A dry storage cupboard is also arranged. 

The heating of the house, its supply of hot water, and the 
lighting, are closely bound up together, and at the present 
time, with the high cost of fuel, is a subject of much im- 
portance. 

In the country there will be little choice. The house must 
be heated by either coal or wood, as there will probably not 
be a gas supply. The lighting will be with oil-lamps. Coal 
is a wasteful fuel, and should, strictly speaking, not be used 
untreated as a fuel. Coke lias had too much combustible 
material removed to be suitable as the sole fuel in an ordinary 
open fire. But it is possible to remove valuable material from 
the coal and yet leave a fuel which would burn in an ordinary 
range or grate. In Chapter VI the detrimental effect of the 
coal-tar products which are not consumed in the domestic 
fire are mentioned. The modern fire-brick grate, with the 
sides and back all in one piece of the material, is a great 
improvement on the old metal grate from the point of view 
of heating a room. It absorbs the heat and gives it off 



44 HYGIENE 

again to the room, less heat passing up the chimney into the 
outer air. In towns, gas is usually available and is now in- 
stalled in most houses. Until other fuel is available, however, 
coal will need to be used in country houses. There should be 
a coal range in the kitchen and small fireplaces in the parlour 
and in one at least of the bedrooms. The kitchen-range 
should have a boiler connected with it, which will take hot 
water to the bath and to the scullery sink. As already 
mentioned, the copper should be arranged to supply hot 
water direct to the bath, if desired. 

A good deal will depend on the kind of range which is 
fixed. Some ranges are more economical than others, but 
there is waste of heat in the majority of ranges in use. Any 
lengthy description of ranges would be out of place here, but 
a few points may be mentioned. The flues carry away from 
the fire-box the hot air which is used to heat the oven and 
the boiler. - In passing through the flues to the chimney 
itself soot and particles carried up from the fire by the hot 
air are deposited. This reduces the amount of soot in the air 
escaping from the chimney, but means that the flues must be 
cleaned out at frequent intervals. If the flues are allowed to 
become choked with soot the ovens and boiler will not get 
heated, being separated from the hot air by layers of soot. 
It has been calculated L that at least 6 per cent, of the coal 
burnt in domestic fireplaces escapes unconsumed into the 
air as soot. The Coal Mines Department gives the figure for 
coal burnt for domestic purposes as 40^ million tons per 
annum, so that nearly 2\ million tons of soot " escape into 
and pollute the atmosphere every year from domestic 
fireplaces alone." 

It is hardly possible to calculate the amount of damage 
done by the soot and fumes, but there can be little doubt that 
it has a very destructive effect on buildings, and that it adds 
greatly to the upkeep necessary for private houses in the 
way of redecoration. Further, the additional cost per week 
per household for fuel and washing material in a smoky town 

i Interim Report of the Committee on Smoke and Noxious Vapours 
Abatement, Cmd. 755, 1920, p. i. 



STORAGE OF FOOD, WATER-SUPPLY, HEATING 45 

has been estimated. The figures show that the cost of these 
in Manchester, as compared with Harrogate, is J%d. per 
week higher in Manchester, thus adding a charge of over 
290,000 per annum to the cost of personal cleanliness. Its 
effect on health is difficult to estimate, but there can be 
little doubt that it is considerable and very detrimental 
(cp. Chapter VI). 

If, as is common, the range is fitted into the wall, a great 
deal of the heat is used in warming the wall and adjacent 
parts. This may be desirable up to a point, but the loss 
of heat may be excessive with badly constructed ranges. 
There are some small ranges which stand in the room, and 
which are economical both for cooking and for heating the 
room. Oil-ovens are now sold, which are preferable for 
summer weather, as they can more readily be turned on just 
for the period required for cooking. They do not, however, 
provide a supply of hot water. 

In towns gas or electricity should be used for heating as 
far as possible. The main difficulty is the cost. If a fire 
is required most of the day a coal fire is a good deal cheaper 
than gas, at present prices. Much, of course, depends upon 
the housewife. If the gas is carefully used the saving of 
labour and the absence of ash-dust and soot may be regarded 
as in some measure meeting the additional cost. Then, 
again, some coal-ranges burn large quantities of coal, 
and gas would probably be cheaper to install. Both gas 
and coal burn up oxygen, and it is essential that the 
hot air from the fire should escape up the chimney and give 
rise to incoming currents of air so as to effect the necessary 
ventilation (cp. Chapter V). A gas-fire must be fitted to a 
flue just as a coal-fire must be, but it needs a smaller and 
less expensive one. The properly fitted gas-fire is very 
satisfactory both for warming and ventilating, but if 
required for many hours it is unfortunately more costly than 
a coal-fire. Cooking by gas, if carefully carried out, is 
hardly more expensive than using a coal-fire for cooking alone, 
as in the summer. The difficulty arises over the hot water 
supply. Gas is expensive to use for merely heating water 



46 HYGIENE 

except by means of a geyser. The domestic saucepan 
boiling over a gas-burner is very wasteful. About 60-70 
per cent, of the heat available is lost and only about 30-40 
per cent, is taken up ;for the boiling of the water. A geyser 
is more economical, the heat loss being only some 20-30 per 
cent, as against the above 70-80 per cent. 1 A copper burning 
coal, or preferably coke, would be an economy where gas is 
used as the main fuel, and a geyser is not available. 

There can be little doubt that electricity is the best means 
of heating. Unfortunately, at present in most areas its cost 
is prohibitive for all but the wealthy. Its installation for 
power as required for heating, in already existing houses, is 
an initial not inconsiderable expense, and the further cost of 
the electricity itself is, in most places, many times more 
expensive than gas. The saving in redecorating, etc., does 
not at present counter-balance the additional current 
charges. 2 Doubtless in years to come electricity will be 
developed and its cost reduced so that it will be more readily 
available. 

For lighting purposes electricity should be used whenever 
possible : it is not expensive if carefully used, and saves 
much expense in redecorating, etc., as it gives off no fumes or 
dirt. It is very widely installed at the present time in many 
towns. Gas burns up a large amount of oxygen and vitiates 
the atmosphere of a room. The incandescent mantles are 
very liable to break if badly treated, and add to the expense 
of the lighting. 

There are other methods of lighting, with acetylene, or 
petrol vapour, which are very suitable for installation in 
country houses of fair size. But electricity can also be manu- 
factured by a small suitable engine, which last can be used 
for other purposes as well, especially for pumping water. 

Central heating, either for warming or for the general 
supply of hot water, is excellent in large houses, and might be 

1 Applied Chemistry, Tinkler and Masters, pp. 228-30. 

2 The cost per unit of electricity varies widely in different and even in 
adjoining areas, so that no figures can be quoted which would be correct 
for more than the area concerned. 



STORAGE OF FOOD, WATER-SUPPLY, HEATING 47 

carried out in housing schemes. It presents little difficulty 
as regards installations, but has a fairly high initial cost, and 
the adjustment of the running expenses, if many separate 
houses are supplied, would probably present some difficulty. 
On the other hand, difficulties can usually be overcome, and 
a central supply of hot water would be a step in the direction 
' of saving labour, and presumably of fuel. It would be much 
appreciated by the housewife. 



CHAPTER V 

ON FRESH AIR AND VENTILATION 

THE dweller in the country who works during a large part 
of the day in the open air hardly realizes the need for fresh 
air for the maintenance of bodily health. He is often glad 
to get into shelter from the storms of rain and wind, and is 
apt to wish for rather less air. The town dweller, on the 
other hand, whose life is in great measure spent within walls 
of either a house or an office or factory, has urgent need of 
more fresh air than is often available in the course of his 
daily work. 

The healthiest life is an out-of-door life. Had there been 
any need of proof the war has supplied abundant evidence. 
Every one knows of the intense exposure to cold and to all 
the inclemencies of the weather suffered by the armies in the 
trenches during the winter. Yet their general health was 
good apart from troubles arising from the difficulty of 
changing clothes and boots. The pale office boy improved 
out of all recognition when given plenty of fresh air and 
exercise and good food. The girls who went to work on the 
land underwent similar transformations when the first effects 
of the unaccustomed life and work wore off, and the muscles 
became better able to cope with the work required of them. 

Both man and animals require protection from the ex- 
tremes of weather, for reasons which will be discussed in this 
chapter. The present state of social life, where large num- 
bers of people are aggregated in towns, conduces to habits 
and conditions of life where the body suffers from lack of the 
health-inducing influences of fresh air. 

For many years past there has been much talk of the need 
for oxygen and of the detrimental effects of carbon dioxide. 
While both these are important, especially the former, it 

4 8 



FRESH AIR AND VENTILATION 49 

would seem, from the researches of L. Hill, 1 and others, 
that these two matters should not alone receive attention 
but that there are other points of almost equal importance 
for health. These points will, it is hoped, be most simply 
explained by considering, first of all, the effects of out-door air 
on the body before dealing with the more complex conditions 
of indoor life. 

Most people have been taught that the air is composed 
primarily of two kinds of gases, oxygen and nitrogen, 
together with a variable amount of water- vapour ; that the 
nitrogen forms about four-fifths of the whole atmosphere, 
and that it has no specific action, being present as a diluent. 
Roughly, therefore, there is about 20 per cent, of oxygen 
in the atmosphere. In addition, there are small amounts of 
carbon dioxide about 4 parts per 10,000, and traces of 
other rare gases. The existing respiratory apparatus of man 
and animals cannot tolerate an atmosphere where the oxygen 
is present in considerably higher proportion than one-fifth. 
The carbon dioxide, although present in such small amounts, 
is of the utmost importance for life. It is, in a sense, both a 
waste product and a food. It is ordinarily regarded as a 
waste product in man and animals, because it is given off 
from the body in the expired air from the lungs, in larger 
quantities than it is taken in. It has just been mentioned 
that this gas is found in the proportion of about 4 parts 
per 10,000 in the air, but in expired air a common average 
figure is 6 parts per 10,000. Further, it is well known that 
carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and water (H 2 O) are constant end 
products of metabolism, not being broken down any further 

iby the body. Both these substances are got rid of continu- 
ally in the expired air. The CO 2 is carried from the tissues 
to the lungs in the venous blood, and is there liberated as a 
gas, the water passing off as water- vapour. The body, how- 
ever, needs some CO 2 to act as a balancing agent for the re- 
action of the blood, and normally only the excess is passed 
1 Reports Nos. 32 and 52 of the Medical Research Council, The Science 
of Ventilation and Open-air Treatment, published by H.M. Stationery 
Office. 



50 HYGIENE 

out in the lungs. The deep breathing induced by exercise 
is the response of the body to the need of getting rid of an 
increased formation of CO 2 (cp. also p. 136). On the other 
hand, if very deep breathing is performed, either deliberately 
or from a decrease of oxygen in the air breathed, too much 
carbon dioxide may be washed out, giving rise, if persisted 
in, to considerable disturbance of the circulation and 
respiration. In such a case, breathing air with an addition 
of 1-2 per cent. CO 2 relieves the condition. Carbon dioxide 
is, therefore, essential to life in certain proportions, but too 
much of it is injurious. Plants take up carbon dioxide 
during the day, under the influence of sunlight, and under 
this influence the carbon dioxide combines with the water in 
the plant leaves and formic acid is produced, which is then 
converted into sugar and ultimately into starch, acting as 
a food for the plant, and in many cases also for man and 
animals. At night plants give off CO 2 as a waste product 
of their metabolism. 

It has long been realized that the three gases, oxygen, 
nitrogen, and carbon dioxide were necessary to life, but it 
would seem that too much stress has been laid on these as 
chemical substances, and that too little attention has been 
paid to the other properties of air. Nearly every one realizes 
the revivifying effects of sea or of mountain air, and of the 
added power of exercise and work experienced under their 
influence. The smell at the sea-side, often called the smell 
of ozone, is in reality due to decaying seaweed and has no 
health-giving properties. The real health-giving properties 
of sea and mountain air are due to the effect of the breeze on 
the skin of the body. It has been shown that air blown 
on the skin produces decided effects, which differ in their 
intensity with the temperature, both of the air and of the 
skin, and also with the velocity of the air. 

The body is always producing heat in the course of its 
metabolism, and this heat is ordinarily got rid of by means 
of the vaporization of water from both skin and lungs. Air 
acts both as a cooling agent and as a stimulus. On a 
warm day, or after exertion, when the body wants to get 



FRESH AIR AND VENTILATION 51 

rid of the excess heat formed, a gentle breeze, by increasing 
the rate of cooling, aids in the ventilation of the body and 
hastens the removal of the heat. This is accomplished by 
blowing gently through the clothing and hastening the 
evaporation of the moisture. Also it acts as a stimulus to 
the whole nervous system, more especially on the exposed 
parts, such as the face and hands. If, however, the breeze 
be cold it will tend to constrict the vessels of the skin. 

When a person comes out into the open air for exercise 
or for definite work he will probably (except in very hot 
weather) feel that the air is cold, and the effect of the air 
will be to induce constriction of the vessels of the skin. 
As he works, the heat produced by the muscles brings about 
a dilatation of the skin -vessels (cp. p. 135). And the heat 
given off is removed by the formation of water- vapour and 
by the drying up of the water-vapour by the current of 
air. If the air be already heavily laden with water its 
drying effect will be reduced, and its cooling effect also ; 
hence the greater effort of walking on a damp day or in a 
damp climate, especially if there is little wind. 

If the air be very cold and the breeze strong the heat 
production of the body may not be able to keep pace with 
that removed by the cold wind ; on such a day it may be 
felt to be too cold to work out-of-doors. That the strength 
of the wind is more important than actual temperature is 
well known from the experiences of Arctic and Antarctic 
explorers. In those regions, although the temperature 
may be many degrees below freezing-point, those concerned 
may feel very hot on a still day, when taking exercise, but 
may be unable to go out in the same temperature, as shown 
" by the ordinary thermometer, if a wind is blowing. Again, 
when the work done causes production of heat in sufficient 
amounts to induce comfort in any particular strength of 
wind, the individual will soon feel cold and chilly on 
standing in the wind after work has been stopped. Heat 
is being removed all the time, but when no work is done 
insufficient heat is being produced to counterbalance that 
used up by evaporation in the wind. Hill considers that 



52 HYGIENE 

sensations of heat and cold are all relative, and that feelings 
of warmth or chilliness depend entirely upon the difference 
of temperature between the air near the skin and that of 
the blood. 

Hill l says : " The nerve endings of the epidermis, and those 
deep in the dermis, may be compared to thermo- junctions ; 
by sensing the difference between the surface temperature 
and blood heat, they produce feelings of chilliness or warmth. 
If, after the body has been heated by hard exercise, say to 
102 F., one rests in a draught, the blood temperature is still 
at the higher level, while the cutaneous surface cools rapidly, 
vaso-constriction taking place, and, the moist skin con- 
tinuing to evaporate, sensations of chilliness then result. 

" The rate of evaporation from the skin and the moistness 
of its surface, the contact with water particles, rain, chill 
mist, warm steam, profoundly influence our sensations of 
comfort or discomfort. Adaptation and indifference to cold 
comes about by training, e.g. the naked Terra del Fuegians, 
the bathers who break the ice for a swim in the Serpentine, 
the soldier returning from the front who does not even feel the 
draught which makes the sedentary worker shut the window. 

"The evaporative power of the atmosphere has a far- 
reaching effect, not only on the comfort of the skin, but on 
the respiratory membrane, the absorption of water from the 
gut, and the renal secretion. 

' ' The ceaseless variation in the rate of cooling, evaporation, 
absorption of radiant energy, as in outdoor conditions, relieves 
us from monotony, stimulates tone and metabolism. Indoors 
the conditions are generally uniform, monotonous, and 
unstimulating. In closed, artificially heated rooms the 
cooling and evaporative powers are very greatly reduced by 
the lack of the vastly freer ventilation which pertains out of 
doors, even on calm days." 

The effect of wind and sun is to stimulate the sensory 
endings and to improve the whole tone of the body. All 
stimuli, if applied too frequently, will give rise to fatigue. 
The worker acciistomed to an out-of-door life responds to 

1 Report cited, vol. i, p. n. 



FRESH AIR AND VENTILATION 53 

the stimuli with a less degree of intensity than a sedentary 
worker. These feel the effects of outdoor conditions more 
keenly than the outdoor worker, and must harden them- 
selves gradually on taking to an outdoor life, or on a holiday. 

The rate of evaporation from the body appears to be a 
most important matter. Some degree of evaporation is 
essential in order to remove the heat formed, even if no exer- 
cise be taken. This rate depends not only on the relative 
temperatures of the body and of the air, but also upon the 
velocity of the wind and upon the amount of water- vapour 
present in the atmosphere at the time. Evidently both 
these factors can be controlled by clothing, and much evi- 
dence on this has already been collected and many experi- 
ments carried out by Hill and others, of which some account 
will be found on pp. 91-96 of this book. 

In order to determine the effect of wind and of other 
factors on the rate of cooling of the body, Hill has invented 
a special thermometer, which he calls the kata- thermometer. 
This instrument is calibrated to show its own rate of cooling 
at a temperature approximately that of the body, and not 
an absolute temperature. It can be used either naked or 
covered with materials of various kinds, in single or in 
several layers. The results are expressed in the heat lost per 
second per square centimetre of surface of the thermometer 
bulb. The unit of heat taken is a millicalorie. The figures 
obtained represent, therefore, the number of millicalories 
lost per square centimetre of surface under the varying 
conditions of study. These figures differ widely according 
as the bulb is left naked or covered with a piece of material. 
They also differ as to the nature of the material used, and 
whether it is wet or dry. A wet covering gives a higher rate 
of cooling owing to the removal of heat in the vaporization 
of the water that is, in the drying of the covering. This 
question of vaporization and its opposite, condensation, 
plays an important part in determining sensations of heat 
and cold. For example, on entering a room after exercise 
in the open dry air, if the air of the room be warm and humid, 
moisture will condense on to the clothing. In condensing 



54 HYGIENE 

it gives up its heat of vaporization and imparts a feeling of 
warmth. If the air becomes drier or the person again goes 
out into dry air, a sensation of cold is experienced owing to 
the heat removed by the evaporation of the water. 1 

Hill 2 says : " There can be a sensation of chilliness in a 
calm mist, and quite alow rate of cooling of the body surface, 
and a sensation of warmth accompanying sweating on a 
warm day and a high rate of heat loss. It is the varying 
differences between the surface and the deeper blood temperature 
which controls the sensations." 

The presence or absence of the radiant heat of the sun also 
makes a great deal of difference in a climate like that of 
England. 

It is impossible to go more deeply into the importance of 
the cooling power of the air and the effect of sunshine. It 
is hoped, however, that enough has been said to emphasize 
the great value of fresh air, not merely for the face and lungs, 
but for the body generally. All parts of the body require 
ventilation, and the clothing must be adjusted to meet the 
needs both of the weather and of the individual. At the same 
time the power of adaptation of the body, through the con- 
traction or dilatation of the vessels of the skin, should be 
borne in mind. The town-dweller, whose body is usually in 
a poor state of tone, will require greater care than the out- 
door worker, if discomfort and chills are to be avoided. 

Chills and colds are rare among those who work out-of- 
doors, even in rigorous weather. They are the common lot 
of the enervated town-dweller, who lives in more or less 
vitiated atmospheres, liable to infection from dust or dirt and 
from other persons. The effects of dust and dirt are con- 
sidered separately in Chapter VI. 

So far only the ventilation of the body by means of air has 
been considered. This in itself is not very simple, owing to 
the number of varying conditions which are found. The 

1 Vapour, in condensing to water, gives up its heat of vaporization, 
amounting to five hundred and eighty calories per gramme ; the same 
amount of heat must be obtained from the surrounding air if the water 
again becomes steam. 

2 Report to M.R.C., No. 32, p. 107. 



FRESH AIR AND VENTILATION 55 

question is rendered more complicated when indoor ventila- 
tion has to be dealt with. The need for the renewal of the 
air is very generally, although not universally, admitted, and 
it is necessary to discuss the methods of securing this, and 
the basis of the methods adopted. 

It has long been realized that, when several persons are 
present in a room, the temperature of the room rises, owing 
to the warmth given off from their bodies. Also the air 
becomes stuffy and disagreeable, although this is less 
noticeable to those in the room than to someone coming in 
from outside. The change in the air has been attributed 
to various causes ; chiefly to the carbon dioxide given off, 
but also to less denned emanations, said to be given off in 
the breath and from the skin. Under this theory each 
person should have about 3,000 cubic feet of fresh air per 
hour rather less if the work be sedentary, more if active. 
This is based on the assumption that CO 2 in the air should 
not exceed 6 parts per 10,000. As the air already contains 
4 parts per 10,000, there is a margin only of 2 parts per 
10,000 to allow for contamination from the breath. But an 
average person maybe said to give off '6 cubic feet of C0 2 in 
an hour, or '2 in -J- of an hour. An individual supplied with 
an air space of 1,000 cubic feet would vitiate the air to the 
extent of '6 per parts 1,000 in the hour, or 6 parts per 
10,000. But there is a margin only of 2 parts per 10,000 
that is to say, the air must be changed three times in the hour 
if this standard is adopted. In actual practice this is an 
impossible standard to adopt, and the air-space found or 
demanded under different conditions varies widely, as shown 
in the following figures : 

Cu. ft. 
Poor law infirmaries, according to regulation 1,000 



Soldier's 

Pauper's dormitories ,, ,, 

Sick bay, navy .... 

Average mess deck, navy 

Average cinema theatres, Birmingham 

Sleeping deck, " Dreadnought " class 

Soldier's military transport . 

Sleeping deck, " Formidable " class 

A crowded dug-out curtained against gas 



600 
300 
250 
150 
140 
86 
80 
68 
3 



(Medical Research Council Sp. Rpt. Ser. No. 52, p. 263.) 



56 HYGIENE 

Hill and his collaborators have shown conclusively that 
the stuffiness and discomfort experienced are not due to the 
increase in carbon dioxide, and that the carbon dioxide 
content can be increased to even 3 per cent, or possibly more, 
without any sensation of distress, if other conditions are 
satisfactory. One of these is the movement of the air, 
another is the humidity, and the third is the temperature. 
Air may be complained of as being " bad " and " un- 
hygienic " when the CO 2 content is below the prescribed 
limit. Absence of air movement gives rise to a sensation of 
stuffiness ; there is no stimulus to the skin of the body, and 
the air will have little or no evaporative power. As a result 
of a vast number of experiments, Hill concludes that the 
figure for the cooling power as measured by the dry kata- 
thermometer should be not lower than 6, and that as measured 
by the wet " kata " not less than 18, and he thinks the figures 
should preferably be 7 and 20-30 respectively. " Higher 
cooling powers are comfortable if the feet are kept warm." 

It is obvious that there will be wide variation in the con- 
ditions found. Among the large number of valuable data 
collected or obtained by him one investigation is perhaps of 
special interest and is worth quoting in full. 

He says : " During the war rooms of the National Gallery 
were allocated to clerks engaged in auditing accounts. The 
galleries are high and lit by skylights, ventilated by small 
roof-openings, heated by steam-pipes laid in tunnels under 
the floor, these ventilated by gratings in the walls. There 
was ample space and no overcrowding. The conditions were 
such as to give a stagnant, monotonous atmosphere, and such 
readings on close days as dry kata cooling power 4*5, wet 
kata 16, dry bulb 73, wet bulb 63. In such stagnant air 
infectious colds were easily spread, the workers sitting close. 

"The clerks worked from 9 a.m. to i p.m., and from 2 
to 5.30-6 p.m., at the monotonous and trying occupation of 
auditing figures. There were no windows, and they could 
get no change of sight, no refreshing breeze. Ventilation 
was maintained only by convection. The complaints of 
want of ventilation were great. Clerks said there was no 



FRESH AIR AND VENTILATION 57 

oxygen, they could ' cut the air with a knife ' expressions 
provoked by the absence of visible ventilation, and based 
on the chemical theory of vitiated air. One girl, pale and 
ansemic, fanning herself, said she would like to tear open the 
skylights. 

"The absences of these employees from ill-health were 
considerable and the economic waste arising therefrom great. 

"The chemical purity of this atmosphere could not be 
assailed ; the carbon dioxide increase was insignificant. 
The hygienic expert called in found no cause for condemna- 
tion. The higher official marked the papers ' no action/ but 
the kata readings showed that the air had too low a cooling 
power and evaporative power. The working hours were too 
continuous and too long, and the work most monotonous. 
The girls travelled by warm, shut-up, crowded tube trains ; 
probably they took no active exercise at home." 1 

Many other similar investigations prove that it is the 
change of air, as shown by its cooling and evaporating power, 
which renders the atmosphere indoors pleasant or the reverse. 
The amount of change of air which is necessary for comfort 
will depend not only on the temperature of the room in 
relation to the air outside, but to the amount of work being 
done by the persons in the room. The greater the heat 
produced by the body, the higher the cooling power 
required for comfort. Very heavy work should be done in 
sheds where there is very free ventilation. Practical 
difficulty is also experienced by the varying ages and con- 
ditions of health of the occupants of the room or workshop. 
Old or debilitated people work less strenuously and produce 
less heat ; hence they require less cooling power in the air, 
and are afraid of draughts. Again, different amounts of 
clothing and of different thicknesses are worn by the several 
persons, which again alters the cooling power they require 
for comfort. It must be, however, remembered that thick 
clothing, unless light and allowing room for movement and 
space for ventilation, hampers the removal of water from 
the skin, and leads to lack of tone in the skin- vessels and 

i Report to M.R.C., No. 52, pp. 259-60. 



58 HYGIENE 

to a feeling of fatigue ; this arises from the insufficient 
evaporation of the sweat. There is also a greater risk of 
chill on leaving the heated atmosphere. 

Hill's calculations of rates of metabolism observed by 
Cathcart show that, whereas a cooling power of 5-6, as 
registered by the dry katathermometer, may be sufficient at 
meal-times, roughly double the degree of cooling, or a kata 
figure of 10-11, will be desirable when scrubbing a floor. 1 

It is beyond the scope of this work to deal with the 
mechanical appliances for securing change of air in houses 
or institutions. It may, however, be pointed out that all 
devices for " natural " ventilation depend upon the difference 
in temperature between the air inside and outside. The 
warm air inside (warmed either by persons or by some form 
of heating, or by both) rises to the top of the room and seeks 
outlet. If there is a chimney, and the air is being warmed by 
a fire, the hot air from the fire will rise and draw in colder air 
from outside through all the available cracks and crannies, or 
through the window or door if open. Unless the doors and 
windows fit more tightly than is usually the case, a very 
considerable amount of fresh air is obtained through the 
cracks. Too often, however, the position of the inlets is 
badly adjusted, or the inflow may amount to a draught of 
cold air. Gusts of cold air entering at or near the floor level 
will keep the feet cold, and the head may be unduly warm. 
The feet should be kept warm and the head cool. A not 
inconsiderable amount of ventilation is obtained through the 
walls of the room or house. The total amount will depend 
upon the material used, upon the presence or absence of 
flues or crannies, upon the temperature on the two sides of 
the wall, upon the exposure to wind and other variables. 
No exact estimates are possible, as the factors involved 
are too variable. The thickness of the walls makes a great 
difference in the temperature of a room. The g-inch wall 
of one brick thick used by jerry builders gives a cold 

1 Cp. Hill, Sp. Rpt., Ser. 52, p. 262, and Cathcart, Proc. Roy. Soc., 
January 31, 1920 ; Energy Expenditure of Infantry Recruit, H.M. Stat. 
Office, 1919. 



FRESH AIR AND VENTILATION 59 

house. The Ministry of Health requirements give a hollow 
space in the walls, which acts as a non-conducting layer, 
making the rooms warmer in winter and cooler in summer. 

In the majority of rooms of moderate size, ventilation is 
adequately effected by the intelligent use of windows and 
door, coupled with an appropriate method of heating the 
room. For very large places such as schools and factories 
artificial ventilation may be required. By these systems 
air is forced in or sucked out by means of electrically-driven 
fans. Not infrequently, however, these fans are not well 
placed, and insufficient attention is bestowed on their working, 
to the discomfort of the workers and the detriment of their 
health. The great disadvantage of all systems of mechanical 
ventilation is the difficulty which arises when anything goes 
wrong with the machinery. 

Where heavy work which causes sweating is undertaken 
the need for adequate cooling and evaporation is very great. 

High or large rooms are more difficult to ventilate than 
low or small ones, and are more expensive to warm. The 
warm air rises, and the air of the rooms is, as it were, heated 
from above downwards the higher the room, the more heat 
is required. Also, unless the windows reach to the level of 
the ceiling the air above the top of the windows will rarely, 
if ever, be changed. It was found that the ventilation in 
dug-outs, even where there were a number of people and 
gas curtains, was frequently quite sufficient to maintain a 
good degree of purity of atmosphere owing to the difference 
in temperature between the inside and the outer air. 

Fresh air at night is very important, especially to those 
who do not work out of doors in the day-time. It must, 
however, be remembered that the ventilation of the body 
under the bedclothes is not effective, and sufficient ventila- 
tion of both bedding and night-clothes is required on arising. 

It is necessary to be warm during sleep, but the value of 
a bath and good rubbing of the skin to give tone to the body 
after the night's rest will readily be appreciated (cp. Chap. 
XIII). 



CHAPTER VI 

DUST AND DIRT 

IF everyone realised the harnlfulness of dust and dirt we 
should be a healthier nation. It cannot be too often re- 
stated that dust and dirt mean bacteria, and these in their 
turn mean ill-health and disease. It is true that all bacteria 
do not cause disease, but it is impossible to tell without 
bacteriological examination whether those certain to be 
present are harmful Or not. Again, it is probable that 
even harmless bacteria, if present in large numbers, can 
give rise to disturbances of health. It seems fairly evident 
that, if swallowed in their myriads, they give rise to gastric 
or intestinal irritation, although some authorities consider 
that this has not been clearly proved. Dust-laden air is 
well known to be harmful, and how far the irritation set 
up is due to the bacteria, and how much of it to the 
particles to which the bacteria are attached, is difficult to 
determine. 

The pureness of country air, which is so healthy, is due 
in great part to the absence of dust and dirt. Town air 
is laden with bacteria attached to the particles of dust from 
the roads and of smoke from the houses and factories. 
The appearance of smoke is due to the presence of particles 
of carbon. On leaving the chimney these particles, no 
doubt, are relatively free from living bacteria, owing to the 
heat of the fire ; but they will soon become contaminated 
and bacteria-laden. 

The formation of fog is closely bound up with the presence 
of impurities in the air. Air contains varying amounts of 

60 



DUST AND DIRT 61 

water-vapour, which again is dependent on the temperature. 
The air may become saturated with water-vapour, after 
which point the water-vapour will condense into droplets 
and appear as mist or rain. The amount of water-vapour 
which the air can hold without condensation depends on 
the temperature. If the air be nearly saturated at any 
given temperature a relatively small drop in temperature 
may cause the air to be supersaturated for this new tempera- 
ture, when droplets of water may form. If there is complete 
absence of dust, supersaturation may not necessarily produce 
condensation that is, droplets l may not form, and hence 
a mist will not arise. This property of the atmosphere 
explains the prevalence of fogs in towns. Mists in the 
country are also due to changes of temperature of an 
atmosphere heavily laden with moisture. These changes 
of temperature will ordinarily be much greater in the 
clearer air of the country than in town air, yet fogs are 
worse in towns where many particles are present in the 
atmosphere. 

There are many methods of estimating the number of 
particles that is, the amount of dust present in the air ; 
great care must be taken if accurate results are to be ob- 
tained. Several methods involve drawing a known volume 
of air through some substance which will catch the particles, 
which are subsequently counted under the microscope by 
taking a small sample, or by weighing the amount of dust 
collected. The number of particles present has also been 
measured by comparing the intensities of fogs produced 
experimentally, by rarefying the air, and thus causing a 
deposit of moisture on each particle. The intensity is 
compared with suitable standards of dust-free air. 

It will be valuable to study some of the results which 
have been obtained by these methods. 

Using a method of applying the condensation of water 

1 The formation or not of droplets in a supersaturated sample of dust- 
free air depends upon the degree of the expansion of the air in its saturated 
state. It can expand up to one and a quarter times its original size before 
condensation occurs. 



62 



HYGIENE 



round particles and counting them with a lens, Aitken 1 
found the following number of particles in various places : 



Four feet from floor of room in which gas was burning 
Near ceiling . . ... 

Air above Bunsen flame ..... 

On the shore of Loch ...... 

At the top of Ben Nevis ..... 

In open air of London or Paris, many hundreds of thousands. 



No. per c.c. 
I,86o,OOO 
5,470,000 
3O,OOO ( OOO 
205-4,000 
335-473 



Palmer * obtained the following figures by another method : 





Particles counted per c. ft.3 


Weight in grammes 
per million litres. 


Out-of-doors, street level 


Il8,OOO 


I-I 


Wed worth, loth floor 


72,000 


o-3 


Building, 58th floor . 


23,000 


0-17 


Business office . 


128,000-172,000 


0-2-0-4 


Department store, basement 


94,000-118,000 


0-2-0-9 


Pearl button factory . 


72,000-139,000 


0-2 


School luncheon-room (a) 


258,000 


1-8 


Ditto (b) . 


97,OOO 


o-3 


Ditto (c) . 


1,090,000 


2-O 


Marble-cutting shop (d) 


590, 000-69 T . 


1-9-2-4 


Subway platform 


1, 130,000-2,320,000 


1-7-3-0 


Iron grinding room . 


14,800,000-48,700,000 


4-4-7-5 


Hat fur factory. 


435,000-701,000 


1-9-4-7 


Rag-sorting shop 


215,000-568,000 


7-9-3-3 


Mattress-renovating shop 


1,530,000-7,140,000 


2-4-22-2 


Feather-drying with starch (e) 


160,000-867,000 


27-9-14-7 



It cannot definitely be asserted that all these particles 
contain bacteria, but the following figures, taken from various 
authors, show that the correspondence is fairly close ; they 

1 Nature, March i, 1888. 

2 American Journal of Public Health, 1916, 6, 1049. 

3 These figures must be multiplied roughly by 35 to convert into the 
number of dust particles per c. metre. 

(a) 500-1,500 pupils present. 

(b) Few present, windows open. 

(c) Janitor sweeping. 

(d) Compressed-air chisels used. 

(e) Very hot, dry room ; feathers packed in starch are beaten by 
machinery to remove starch. 



DUST AND DIRT 63 

also show the effect of traffic and dry winds in vitiating 
the atmosphere : 

Bacteria per cubic 
metre. 

Air in Salon at Paris, Saturday, showed. . 42,000 
,, ,, ,, ,, Sunday at 3 p.m. showed 3,240,000 
,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, 4 p.m. showed . 5,000,000 



In a street in Paris the following figures were obtained : 



8 a.m. 
10 a.m. 
12-0 

2 p.m. 

5 P.m. 



Bacteria per cubic 
metre. 

545 

2,300 

9,600 

. 14,200 

20.800 



In the air above a house staircase : 

Before sweeping were found 

After ten minutes' dry sweeping of carpet. 



Bacteria per cubic 
metre. 

750 
410,000 



Above stone staircase : 

After dry sweeping were found. 
After wet sweeping were found. 



140,000 
26,000 



Underground station : 

9 a.m. were found ..... 
ii a.m. were found ..... 
After dry sweeping of platform were found 



Bacteria per cubic 

metre. 

410 

68,000 

210,000 



Graham Smith found three times as many bacteria at 
the base of the Clock Tower at Westminster as there were 
at the top. 

The above figures could be multiplied, but they show 
abundantly the harmful condition of dust, and the de- 
sirability of keeping roads watered and of not sweeping 
without sprinkling with water. Dust must be removed, 
not merely stirred up and left to settle again, as is too often 
the case with dry sweeping or dusting. The old-fashioned 



64 HYGIENE 

plan of sprinkling tea-leaves to catch the dust when sweeping 
had a sound hygienic basis, and should not be neglected. 
Dust may contain germs of tuberculosis, and bacteria from 
horse faeces will most probably be found in dust on the 
roads. The tubercle bacillus is extremely resistant to 
drying, and also to cold, and has been shown to survive all 
conditions of weather, at any rate, as found in countries with 
temperate climates. Bacteria are prevented from spread- 
ing by rain, but are aided by dry weather, as they are then 
conveyed in the dust. Summer diarrhoea in infants is 
always less prevalent in a wet summer than in a dry one, 
and the difference would appear not to be due entirely to 
difference of temperature. 

Rain has a very cleansing effect on air. It carries down 
the dust and draws down the higher and purer strata of 
air. A rain- and wind-swept area is usually healthy, although 
it may not have a pleasant climate. Probably the relative 
good health of sea-side towns is largely due to the storms 
and sea-spray, which reduce the dust and purify the air. 
The death-rate of inland towns which are wind-swept owing 
to their position, as compared with neighbouring towns of 
similar nature, but lying in a valley, shows the gain in 
health experienced by the inhabitants of the wind- and 
rain-swept district. 

The harmful effects of dust both out-of-doors and indoors 
has been abundantly shown. Out-of-doors it is easy to 
trace the effect on plant-life. The smoke contains tarry 
matter derived from the use of raw coal for fuel, and this 
falls on the leaves and chokes the apertures, preventing 
breathing, often to such an extent as to kill the plant. 
The dirt of leaves is well shown by the following photographs 
(see figs. 17 and 18) of holly and laurel leaves, which were 
growing in the grounds of Leeds University and were half- 
cleaned before photographing. 

Further, a sooty atmosphere tends to be acid, and has 
been shown to prevent proper growth of grass and plants. 
Cohen and Ruston made elaborate analyses of the rain 
falling at Leeds and at Garforth, outside Leeds, and used 



DUST AND DIRT 65 

samples of the rain for watering grass. The effect is shown 
in fig. 19. Further, water was prepared containing sulphuric 
acid in proportions comparable to those found in the rains 
concerned, and was used for watering grass-seeds. The 
effects are shown in fig. 20. 

Cohen analysed both the grass and the soil of the country 
under consideration. He found that there was much re- 





r 



FIG. 17. Holly-leaf from 
Leeds University garden. 
One half has been cleaned. 



FIG. 1 8. Laurel-leaf from 
Leeds University garden. 
One half has been cleaned. 



duction of nitrogen and of salts in the grass itself, and that 
the soil had a lower bacterial content, and, hence, a reduced 
absorption power for oxygen. 

Everyone is familiar with the difficulty of getting certain 
plants to grow in towns, owing to the vitiated atmosphere. 
It can hardly be supposed that the effect so marked on 
plants is not also marked on the growth and development 
of human beings. 

The amount of soot and dirt estimated as being deposited 

5 



66 HYGIENE 

per square mile in different towns and areas is of great 
interest. 

Tons per 
square mile 
per annum. 

London, Old Street, E.G. . . . . . 650! 

London, Buckingham Gate, S.W. . . . 500 

Leeds, four square miles central area . . - . 190 

Glasgow . . -,), . . . . . 1,330 

Rochdale. 89 tons per month . . . . 1,068 

Newcastle-on-Tyne. 53 tons per month . . 636 

Malvern. 6| tons per month .' . . . 78 



GarforthRain Qari'orlhRain LeedsRain 




FIG. 19. Showing the effect on the growth of grass of watering with 
rain-water, as shown on the labels. 

Brend 2 regards the vitiated atmosphere as being probably 
the primary cause of infant mortality. He says : " Dirtiness 
of the air seems to be the one constant accompaniment of 
a high infant mortality : purity of atmosphere is the one 
great advantage which the agricultural labourer of Wiltshire, 
the Connaught peasant, and the poverty-stricken crofter 
of the Highlands enjoys over the resident in the town. In 
the opinion of the writer, a smoky and dirty atmosphere, 
as a cause of infant mortality, far transcends all other 
influences." 

1 The figures are from various sources. 

2 Health and the State, p. 87. 



DUST AND DIRT 67 

While it may not be possible altogether to endorse this 
view, there can be no manner of doubt that it is one of the 
influences militating against health, and hence against 
happiness. A condition of the atmosphere at Leeds is 
shown in fig. 21. The table on page 68 shows the effect of 
a foggy month on the death-rate from respiratory diseases 
in Glasgow. 1 

The general effect on health of cold, foggy weather is 
well known in all the out-patient departments of children's 



Acidity4Parts 

per 1001)00 




FIG. 20. Showing the effect of watering with acidified water, as shown 
on the labels ; this should be compared with fig. 19. 

hospitals. After some thirty-six hours of cold autumn or 
winter fog every physician knows that his out-patient 
department will be over-burdened with cases of bronchitis, 
some mild and some severe. With the return of better 
weather there is at once a reduction in the number of cases 
of respiratory trouble. Further, the figures for infant deaths 
from bronchitis and other respiratory troubles are higher 
in the industrial areas where the atmosphere is polluted 
than in those areas where the atmosphere is less vitiated. 

1 Report Intern. Smoke Abatement Exhibition, 1912 (quoted from 
M.R.C. Report, No. 52, p. 146). 



68 



HYGIENE 



1909-10. 


Glasgow. 


Seven other 
towns. 


Mean 
city 
temp. 


Weather 
conditions. 


No. of 
deaths. 


Death- 
rate. 


No. of 
Deaths. 


Death- 
rate. 


October (weekly aver- 


35 


2-1 


31 


1-5 


49-2 


Clear to dull. 


age) . 














Week ending Nov. 6 


61 


3-6 


44 


2'3 


45-o 


Three days' 














fog. 


13 


75 


4'5 


39 


2-0 


44-o 


Dull, slight 














fog. 


, , 20 


138 


8-3 


55 


2-9 


30-7 


Five days' 














dense fog. 


M 2 7 


233 


13-9 


63 


3-3 


40-3 


Hazy. 


Dec. 4 


171 


10-2 


93 


4-8 


42-3 


Hazy or wet. 


ii 


198 


n-8 


76 


4-0 


37-o 


Four days 'fog 


18 


137 


8-2 


78 


4-0 


38-5 


Slight haze. 


M 2 5 


95 


5'7 


76 


4-0 


31-9 


Slight fog and 














clear. 


,, Jan. i 


93 


5-6 


88 


4-6 


43-1 


Wet or clear. 














One day fog. 



A very little consideration will show how this is brought 
about. Dirty material, soot and grime, is deposited every- 
where ; the air carries it into the homes. The clothing is 
covered with it, also the face and hands. The average 
individual loses heart at the increased effort required to 
keep either the home or the person in a cleanly state. The 
furniture becomes grimy and the skin cannot be continually 
cleansed. Bacteria are prevalent and are being continu- 
ously inhaled. Children have a habit of fingering every- 
thing and of sucking their fingers afterwards, thus taking in 
extra doses. The mucous membrane becomes inflamed, 
giving rise to a cold or bronchitis, which is clearly likely to 
be worse when the particles are held in increased numbers 
in the air, as is the case in a fog. 

The five towns having the highest infant mortality rates 
from respiratory diseases for the years 1907-10 were l : 



Leigh . 
Burnley 
Radcliffe 
Chadderton 
Wigan . 



Rate per 1,000 
births. 

37-3 

37' 
. 36-0 

32-5 

32-4 



1 Supplement to the 42nd Annual Report of the Local Government 
Board, 1912-13. Report of the Chief Medical Officer, p. 36. 




OJ 

a 



a 



I 



70 HYGIENE 

The lowest rates were found in : Rate per I>000 

births. ' 
Hornsey ........ 10-8 

Leyton. . . . . . . . .10-7 

Ilford ......... 10-5 

Peterborough . . . . . . 9-5 

Tunbridge Wells . . . . . . .8-7 

In fact, the towns of the cotton district, where dirt and 
moisture predominate, show the worst results, while the 
districts where the free breezes blow from the sea across the 
country-side, or where the towns have few strictly urban 
characters, show the best results. 

These figures should, however, not be pressed too far, 
since there are so many factors concerned in infant mortality. 
They provide, however, confirmatory evidence of a valuable 
character to the argument already advanced as to the harm- 
ful properties of dirt. This is more especially the case when 
present in a damp atmosphere, when the particles hold the 
water and where the mild winds are rain-laden, but do not 
sweep the air clean, as is the case on the west side of the 
Pennines. The keen, strong blasts on the East Coast are of 
great benefit to health. 

It is impossible here to dwell upon the effects of the 
various dusts which are produced by different trades. 
Those interested should consult larger works. 1 It would 
seem that all particles are not equally harmful, but that the 
dangerous particles are those of silica dust (i.e. from stone), 
which provokes no phagocytic action by the body. 

The following tables show the varying effects on the death- 
rate from pulmonary tuberculosis and the immense im- 
portance of adequate ventilation : 

DEATH-RATES FROM PULMONARY TUBERCULOSIS PER 1,000 LIVING IN 
CERTAIN DUSTY OCCUPATIONS 2 

Occupation. Death-rate. 

Brick-maker . . . . . .0-9 

Coal-miner . . . . . . i-o 

1 Oliver's Dangerous Trades, Oliver's Occupations (Camb. Univ. Press), 
and a valuable summary of literature by Hill, M.R.C. Special Kept., 
Series 52, pp. 158 et seq. 

* Compiled from lists of deaths published annually in the United Opera- 
tive Masons and Granite-cutters' Journal, published in Aberdeen. 



DUST AND DIRT 



Occupation. Death-rate. 

Mason (limestone) . . .1-4 

Iron-ore miner . . . . . .1*5 

Slate- worker . . . . . .1-8 

All males (England and Wales) 15 years of 

age and over . . . . .2-1 

Potter . .3-1 

Lead-miner . . . . . . 3*9 

Cutler (Sheffield) . 5'<T 

Granite- cutter (Aberdeen) . . . .6-2 

Gold-miner (Transvaal) . not less than 13-8 
Metal-grinder (Sheffield) .... 15-2 

Mason (sandstone) . . . . .16-7 

Tin-miner ....... 17-6 

Canister worker! ..... 22-3 

Flint-knapper . . . . . .41-0 



Uncombined 
silica 
dust. 



ABERDEEN GRANITE-CUTTERS 1 



Causes of deaths. 


Class of employment. 


Percent- 
age of all 
deaths. 


Median 
age at 
death. 


Tuberculosis 


I Building section (open to the 
| air) .... 


25-0 


54 




1 Monumental section (closed in) 


38-0 


4^-47 


Respiratory diseases 


[Building section (open to the 


13-8 


60 


other than tuber- 


\ air) .... 






culosis . 


' Monumental section (closed in) 


16-3 


48-49 




(Building section (open to the 






All other diseases . 


air) .... 


61-2 


56-57 




Monumental section (closed in) 


45-7 


43-44 



The second table shows not only that absence of venti- 
lation causes a higher proportion of deaths, but also that 
the age of death is lower. The economic loss is therefore 
greater than appears merely from the death-rate. 

It is hoped that enough will have been said to render 
evident the immense importance of getting rid of dust in 
houses. But further evidence is forthcoming as to the value 
of adequate cleaning and polishing. Schutze z took samples 
of the dust from all manner of places in a house and its 
furniture, and found that there was a great decrease in 
bacteria after a floor or a piece of furniture had been polished. 

1 Collis, Milroy Lectures, " Public Health," 1915, 28, 252 and 292. 
z Arch, fur Hyg., vol. Ixxvi. p. 297. 



72 HYGIENE 

Everyone knows the clean, healthy feeling of a room that 
has been thoroughly cleaned and polished, but it is of great 
value to know that it is a fact as well as a feeling. 

Sunlight also kills bacteria, and, taking the above facts 
into consideration, there is no difficulty in valuing the effects 
on health oi a clean, airy, sunlit home as compared with 
dirty, stuffy rooms where either the situation does not admit 
of the entrance of sunlight, or its entrance is prevented by 
curtains and plants in the windows, or even by drawing down 
blinds lest the carpet should be faded. It is better that the 
carpets should fade than the occupants of the house. 






CHAPTER VII 

GENERAL AND PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 

WE are told that cleanliness is next to godliness. Many 
hygienists and others whose paths of life have led them 
into a knowledge of the evils of dirty conditions, are 
sometimes tempted to think that without some measure of 
cleanliness, any high degree of godliness is well-nigh im- 
possible. Those nations who have made progress in hygiene 
look- upon self-respect as very closely connected with cleanli- 
ness. Unconsciously, from childhood upwards we have come 
to make a rapid general estimate of the social status and of 
the mental state of individuals by noting their appearance 
in the matter of personal cleanliness, under which heading 
that of order and disorder may well be included. 

The close connection between disease and dirt which was 
preached by the early sanitarians is emphasized yet more 
strongly by their successors whose researches into the cause 
of many of the epidemic diseases lead us back with an almost 
impressive monotony to some form or other of neglect of the 
laws of order and cleanliness. For, in dealing with this 
matter, it is not possible to consider only personal cleanliness. 
This, while a most important branch of the subject, is only 
one of its many aspects, and will not alone suffice to reduce 
disease without adequate attention to the state of the 
surroundings of the individual. 

GENERAL CLEANLINESS 

Cleanliness must be taken as a whole, and must be regarded 
as referring to the state of the environment of the person. 
Of what service will it be to clean the house, if microbe-laden 

73 



74 HYGIENE 

dust is blown in continually from outside ; or to cleanse the 
body, if the home itself is so dirty and vermin-ridden that the 
clothing becomes reinfected immediately after cleansing ? 
The process is merely disheartening, and even the stoutest 
heart fails in time in face of overwhelming difficulties. 

Cleanliness must be taken to include the cleansing of the 
body, of the dwelling-place, and of the environment of that 
dwelling. To secure this various agencies are needed. In 
urban areas the Local Authority is responsible for the cleans- 
ing of the streets, for the removal of refuse, for the condition 
of the houses of the district, and usually provides special 
cleansing stations for the person who is dirty as well as baths, 
etc., for the continued practice of cleanliness. Vermin are 
a concomitant of dirt, and the list of diseases which must be 
laid at the door of these types of creation is continually 
receiving additions. These, however, receive special atten- 
tion in numerous text-books, and it will suffice here to men- 
tion the more serious illnesses which are conveyed by this 
means. The war has shown conclusively that typhus and 
trench fever are carried from person to person by the body- 
louse ; the outbreak of plague in India some years ago led to 
the discovery that the rat's flea was the medium for the 
conveyance of plague ; more recently the medical officer of 
the London County Council has brought forward evidence 
which he believes shows that the common flea may be held 
to have a close connection with the conveyance of scarlet 
fever. 

Flying insects, again, carry disease, and, since their move- 
ments are beyond control, the organisms which they can carry 
and which can be deposited on food or on persons are infinite. 
The only way to deal with them is to destroy the breeding- 
places, namely, rubbish-heaps and decaying matter in the 
case of flies, and stagnant water in the case of the mosquito, 
different types of which carry the dreaded germs of malaria 
and of yellow fever. Malaria has -now died out in England 
as the result of hygienic measures, but it is not many years 
ago since this disease was by no means uncommon in the 
fens of Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire, and was known as 



GENERAL AND PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 75 

ague. The well-known mediaeval legends of those parts, 
where saints struggled with devils in the swamps of that 
district, were almost certainly the ravings of the unfortunate 
victims of malaria. The drainage of the fens and consequent 
removal of stagnant water has caused the disappearance of 
the disease. 

For the present purpose it will be convenient to divide 
the subject of cleanliness into two main divisions, namely, 
environmental cleanliness and personal cleanliness. En- 
vironmental measures will differ considerably in town and 
country. They are primarily concerned with the removal 
of the various waste matters whose presence arises out of the 
ordinary routine of daily life, and with the preservation of 
the dwelling itself in a reasonable state of order. In effect, 
the measures thus required are usually included under the 
general term sanitation, which term, however, includes 
other points less directly concerned with cleanliness than the 
items mentioned above. 

There are certain other matters which have important 
bearings on health and cleanliness, but which do not always 
receive sufficient attention from this point of view, such as 
the watering of streets and the flushing of street sewers. 

The waste materials which require removing fall under 
two main headings domestic waste and excremental waste. 
In a town the latter is usually dealt with by water-carriage, 
whereby the waste is led to some form or other of sewage 
works and there rendered innocuous. In some towns, how- 
ever, only certain portions of the town are served in this 
way, the other parts having a conservancy system whereby 
the excrement is retained for a period on or near the premises 
(cp. Chapter III). Some of the systems are less unsatis- 
factory than others, which is all that can be said in their 
favour. Thoroughly bad hygienically, they require the 
greatest care both in use and in removal if cleanliness is to be 
ensured. This, unfortunately, is rarely the case, and these 
arrangements are frequently the source, not only of disa- 
greeable odours, especially during the hot weather, but are 
also perennial sources of uncleanliness. They form ideal 



76 HYGIENE 

breeding-places for flies unless they are emptied not less 
often than once a week. 

Then there is domestic waste. This will include vegetable 
waste, together with offal from fish or other flesh food, tea- 
leaves, etc. Where an open fire is used for cooking most 
of this refuse could be burnt and thus disposed of hygieni- 
cally in the home ; but where gas is used, or an oil-stove, 
this is impossible, and the refuse must be collected and 
handled on a large scale. This is the duty of the Local 
Sanitary Authority, who should collect not less often than 
once a week and more often in the warm weather. Where 
there is much refuse a daily collection is desirable, and, 
failing that, there should be a collection twice or three 
times a week. 

The refuse should be placed by the housewife in a bin 
reserved for the purpose, which should have a closely fitting 
lid. By these means the premises are kept clear of refuse 
which is dirty and malodorous (cp. fig. 6, p. 15). 

Unfortunately, however, all towns do not undertake the 
adequate collection of refuse. In some districts there are 
large places where the refuse from a number of adjacent 
houses is thrown, and which, while nominally possessed of 
doors, are in effect open sheds, where the refuse mounts ever 
higher and overflows on to the surrounding area. This, 
being trodden upon by passers-by, and even played with by 
children, is carried on boots and shoes into the houses, 
rendering cleanliness difficult. Moreover, each gust of wind 
blows about the dust and particles from this obnoxious 
heap, making life hard for the cleanly housewife. Again, 
these places are breeding-grounds for myriads of flies, which 
enter the houses near by, alighting on the food and on all 
parts of the dwelling itself, leaving their marks of dirt 
behind them. 

Waste or dirty water is usually carried off by the same 
water-carriage system which removes excreta. Where, 
however, this is absent adequate means for the removal of 
waste water are too often also absent. There is usually a 
street-gully, into which such water can be thrown ; but it is 



GENERAL AND PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 77 

to be feared that not infrequently it is thrown down on the 
road itself, where it may run away, or evaporate, or remain 
according to the climatic or other conditions. 

The proper disposal of refuse is an expensive matter, but 
the cost is abundantly repaid in the improved conditions of 
life and in the general health of the inhabitants. These 
matters are vital to the housewife, and it is greatly to be 
hoped that the municipal vote, now possessed by so many 
women, will produce improvements in this direction in those 
towns which at the present do not carry out their duties in 
this respect. 

Then, in addition to the above, there is the general cleanli- 
ness of the roads. It should not be forgotten that, for all 
practical purposes, microbes may be regarded as present in 
all particles of dust. It is true that certain microbes are 
not directly harmful to human beings, but it is impossible to 
say which particles of dust may or may not contain the harm- 
ful varieties, and therefore all dust must be looked upon as 
harmful and every measure taken to reduce it. Roads 
should be kept watered in summer to lay the dust, and to 
prevent it from being blown into the houses. Observation 
upon the number of microbes in the air at the top of the clock 
tower of the Houses of Parliament showed that, as the day 
passed, the number of microbes increased owing to the stirring 
up of the dust by the traffic below (cp. Chapter VI). 

Another all-important point connected with cleanliness is 
the question of the water-supply. It is not possible to keep 
a house clean unless there is sufficient water. But the water 
must also be of pure quality. Water for cleansing floors, etc., 
does not need to attain the same standard of purity as that 
which is required for drinking. But it must be remembered 
that two sources of water-supply may get confused, and it is 
well, if possible, to provide pure water for all purposes. 
There is a close connection between general health and a pure 
water-supply. This has been shown repeatedly by the 
improved figures for health which are found in towns when 
a good water-supply has been provided as against those 
which obtained with an impure one. 



78 HYGIENE 

Personal cleanliness is evidently unattainable without 
water, and in fact rests largely upon the use of water in one 
direction or another. 



PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 

Personal cleanliness constitutes a fundamental part of 
personal hygiene. There has, however, been a somewhat 
marked tendency to lay great stress upon it without remem- 
bering that it is only one aspect of this wide subject and not 
the whole matter. The care of the skin and the care of the 
teeth have seemed to loom unduly large in certain courses 
of instruction in hygiene. The care of the teeth will be 
dealt with under the hygiene of the alimentary canal, the 
outer person alone being considered here. 

The need for cleansing the body arises from two main 
causes : the dirt which falls upon the body from without, 
and the secretion which reaches the skin from the tissues of 
the body itself. These differ in degree with different dis- 
tricts and with different persons. The dirt from without is 
increased in towns, or in very dusty areas, or from certain 
other special causes. Thus, in mining or factory districts, 
even in the country places, there is much outside dirt, as 
compared with the cleaner air of the rural areas where agri- 
cultural work predominates. In towns the dirt is further 
increased by the smoke from chimneys. Every one knows 
how easy it is to keep a house clean in the country, as com- 
pared with the continuous effort in the towns. Even with 
the^exercise of much patience it is almost impossible to 
attain to that degree of cleanliness which is found in the 
country house of average cleanliness. The same amount of 
dirt which falls on the furniture or on the clothing falls also 
on the exposed parts of the body, such as the hands and 
face and hair. Further, the wind blows the dirt into the 
clothing, and some of it will find its way on to the part of the 
body which is covered with clothes. 

Dirt is objectionable on account of its appearance on the 
parts which are exposed, quite apart from its detrimental 



GENERAL AND PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 79 

effect on health, so that these parts are more often attended 
to than those other parts of the body which are covered. 
Hygienically, the dust and dirt are bad because they tend 
to block the glands and to prevent the proper action of the 
skin. 

Text-books on physiology all devote some space to the 
functions of the skin, but it seems doubtful whether the stu- 
dent forms any adequate idea of the importance of the skin 
in relation to the general health. Life cannot be carried on 
without the aid of the.skjn. If top large an area of skin is 
thrown out of work from any cause the body cannot perform 
its functions, and the person or animal concerned dies. 

There are two kinds of glands in the skin, both of which 
must receive some attention in connection' with the question 
of cleanliness. The sebaceous glands are situated in the 
walls of the hair-follicles and secrete a fatty material which 
is extruded on to the skin. This fatty material acts as a 
protective covering for the skin, and in' cold weather probably 
aids in the retention of the 'body- warmth. Only the palms 
of the hand and the soles of the feet have no sebaceous glands, 
there being no hair-follicles on these parts of the body. The 
protection afforded. by the fat secreted is known to those who 
have undertaken explorations into Arctic or Antarctic regions. 
These men have found it inadvisable to wash their feet for 
several days before exposing the feet to great cold. Frost- 
bite is less likely if the foot retains its protective covering of 
the fatty material derived from the sebaceous glands. 
Fig. 22 shows the relation of these glands to the hair-follicles. 

The sweat-glands are small coiled structures which are 
found in great numbers all over the body and are especially 
numerous on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet. 1 

1 Metcalfe (Essays and Notes on Hydro-therapeutics, 1901) says that 
Erasmus Wilson counted the glands opening on to the skin with a magnify- 
ing-glass, and estimated that there would be some 7,000,000 glands, each 
about | inch long, thus making about twenty-eight miles of glands in the 
skin of each person. 

These figures are evidently only rough, but they give some idea of the 
immense number of sweat-glands and of their total surface for the secretion 
of water. 



8o HYGIENE 

The fluid secreted by them consists principally of water, but 
there are also small amounts of salts, urea, and other sub- 
stances. Some secretion of fluid is always going on from 
these numerous glands, which passes off as water-vapour, 
and is often spoken of as the " insensible perspiration." 




(a) 



FIG. 22. Diagram of skin. Note (a) a sweat-gland and the duct of 
another at (6) ; (c) the hair follicle, with (d) the sebaceous gland. The 
other structures are not referred to in the text. 

Starling 1 gives the average amount of fluid which is thus 
got rid of daily as 700 c.c., or about i|- pints a day. 

The amount secreted is, however, subject to wide varia- 
tions, owing to the fact that the sweat-glands form a part of 

1 Starling's Principles of Physiology, p. 1302. 



GENERAL AND PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 81 

the system dealing with the body temperature. This is 
controlled by the central nervous system, which is connected 
with the sweat-glands by means of special nerves passing to 
them. If the temperature of the body rises the activity of 
the sweat-glands increases the secretion of water from the 
skin, and this, by becoming vaporized on the surface of the 
skin, abstracts heat from the body and helps to lower the 
rising temperature. There is, further, an intimate connection 
between the sweat-glands and the kidneys. Ordinarily the 
greater part of the fluid of the body which is passed out 
daily is got rid of through the kidneys. If, however, the 
weather be very hot the sweat-glands will be acting very 
freely in order to keep the body temperature down. They 
will secrete very considerable quantities of water and 
reduce the amount of urine secreted by the kidneys. Con- 
versely, in cold weather the sweat-glands tend to secrete less 
water and the kidneys more. 

In average conditions it is hardly probable that the 
amounts of salts, etc., secreted by the sweat-glands can be 
regarded as forming any important part of the total waste 
salts the body must get rid of. Where, however, there is 
much active work by the sweat-glands the amount of salts 
becomes far from inconsiderable. Most people find, after 
they have been taking a good deal of exercise, such as may 
occur in a long walk on a hot day, especially if there is a 
good deal of uphill work, or after dancing for a whole 
evening, that, if the body be allowed to cool gradually, 
a deposit of salts of quite appreciable amount can be 
rubbed off the exposed surfaces of the skin. The clothes 
will have absorbed the substances where the body is 
covered by them. Those parts of the body which are covered 
by clothing will therefore not show this to an appreciable 
extent, since the sweat will have been absorbed by the 
clothing to a greater or less extent according to the nature 
of the material worn. 

In cases of disease of the kidneys the skin can render very 
powerful aid in the elimination of the waste material from 
the body. It is very important that the skin should be 
6 



82 HYGIENE 

kept in a healthy state and that the activity of the glands 
of the skin should be freely maintained. If there were 
no dirt from outside and if no clothing were worn it is 
probable that the amount of washing which would be neces- 
sary would be much less than is needed in the usual civilized 
conditions of life. Under these conditions there is dust and 
dirt from outside which varies in amount in the various 
districts, and there is also the clothing which absorbs and 
retains the excretions from the skin, and prevents the 
removal of these substances by the action of the air, which 
in the absence of clothing would play freely on the body. 
Some of the substances are also retained by the greasy 
nature of the secretion from the sebaceous glands. It is 
therefore necessary that the skin should be periodically 
cleansed so as to remove the waste matters which would 
accumulate on it and tend to obstruct the orifices of the 
glands. 

Water alone does not suffice, owing to the greasy nature of 
the secretion from the sebaceous glands, and soap is em- 
ployed for this purpose. Also the dirt which the body 
acquires from outside is usually slightly greasy, and will not 
come away with water only. The requirements of cleanli- 
ness are satisfied with ablutions which will remove the inside 
and outside dirt, namely, with a basin of water and soap 
that is, of course, provided that the whole body be washed 
and not merely the more readily accessible parts. 

Owing, doubtless, partly to the inconvenience of washing 
the whole body, the practice has arisen among most nations 
aiming at progress in hygiene of immersing the whole body in 
water or of providing some large receptacle in which the whole 
body can be readily washed and cleansed. Thus, the prac- 
tice of baths has arisen; but this practice, if extended, as 
it nowadays frequently is, introduces other elements beyond 
those of mere cleanliness, whose effects will be considered 
more fully below. 

A good wash all over once a day can be regarded as 
sufficient for the ordinary individual in regard to the 
body as a whole. The hands and face will, however, almost 



GENERAL AND PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 83 

certainly require more frequent cleansing, especially the 
hands. The hands are continually touching other things, 
which will be more or less dirty, and dirt contains germs. 
The dirty hand will, therefore, act as a disseminator of germs, 
and may even be the means whereby disease is conveyed to 
the food taken by the individual, or by others if that indi- 
vidual prepares the food. 

It is not usual to wash the hair more frequently than once 
a fortnight, partly because the long hair commonly worn by 
women renders it a lengthy process, and partly because, if 
the hair is continually depleted of its greasy material, it tends 
to become unduly dry, leading to a loss of hair. It must, 
however, be remembered that the hair is exposed to dust 
and dirt in the same way as the rest of the body, except for 
that part of the hair which is covered by a hat when out-of- 
doors. The frequency with which the hair should be washed 
will differ with different people and according to the occu- 
pation and place of residence. 

Especial attention should be devoted to those parts of the 
body which are less easy of access, such as behind the ears 
and between the toes, not forgetting the armpit and the 
parts round the anus and vulva. These last require 
scrupulous cleanliness during the monthly period, at which 
times increased care should be given. It may perhaps not 
be unnecessary to give a word of warning as to the cleanliness 
of the nails. These, if not kept short, provide a niche in 
which dirt can accumulate and germs be stored. Ordinary 
washing with soap and water does not cleanse the nails if 
these are allowed to grow any distance beyond that part 
where the nail is attached to the finger, or toe. If, for the 
sake of appearance, it is desired that the nail should grow, 
then much trouble must be given to secure cleanliness of the 
part between the nail and the finger. Anyone whose 
duties include the preparation of food should keep the nails 
short in order to avoid the risk of harbouring germs under 
the nails. 

At the best a long nail can only be worn by those who have 
no manual labour of any kind to do, and the admiration of 



84 HYGIENE 

a long nail may not unreasonably be looked upon as an 
acquired taste. 

The cleanliness of the feet is most important. Much of 
the discomfort experienced by many persons, especially 
during the warm weather, is overcome by keeping the feet 
clean. A good wash with soap at least once a day will 
reduce the discomfort, and a wash twice a day will be better 
still. Those who have tender feet or whose feet perspire 
freely will do well to carry out careful washing twice a day 
all through the year, and at more frequent intervals during 
the hot weather (cp. Chapter X). 

Baths. The use of baths seems to be a feature of civiliza- 
tion. The uncivilized nations do not appear to have baths, 
and, as the general comfort of life increases, baths increase 
also. In this country the provision of baths in dwelling- 
houses of quite large size was not usual even some fifty years 
ago. Now, a bath is regarded as almost a necessity in any 
house, of whatever size. Practically all new houses which are 
built, even in rural areas, at the present time have a bath 
provided if the water-supply is at all adequate for its use. 

Baths undoubtedly aid cleanliness owing to the greater 
ease with which a good wash can be obtained, but when used 
regularly and frequently they enter into another category 
than that of mere cleansing agents, especially if they are 
taken either very hot or quite cold. 

Such baths tend to pass out of the purview of hygiene and 
to enter that of therapeutics. They produce definite effects 
on the circulation which may be beneficial ; but, if the baths 
are taken at too frequent intervals, the effects should be 
borne in mind lest damage result instead of benefit. 

A bath in itself, without soap, is not necessarily the best 
method of cleansing the body. It is, however, very refreshing 
and stimulating. 

A good deal of work has been carried out on the subject of 
baths, primarily from the standpoint of medicinal baths. 
Hot and cold baths have long been used for therapeutic 
purposes, and something is known of their effects, which 
are also applicable to baths taken in the course of daily life. 



GENERAL AND PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 85 

Fortescue Fox 1 says : " The moisture of a bath may be 
considered as a sedative influence combined with the 
stimulating influence of heat or cold. The general effect of 
the bath depends on the predominance of the one or the 
other influence. Moisture softens and relaxes the skin, 
separates the dead epithelial scales, and causes the deeper 
cells to swell by the imbibition of water." He explains 
that the amount of water absorbed is negligible for all 
practical purposes. Everyone will be familiar with the 
separation of the dead cells of the outer layers of epithelium 
of the feet after they have been a little time in water. 
Baruch, 2 in summarizing the literature on the effect of hot 
and cold water on the circulation, showed that the application 
of cold to any part produced an increased blood-flow to the 
parts adjacent. 

A cold bath produces constriction of the arterioles of the skin 
and sends the blood to the internal parts. The effect of this 
is both to throw more work on the heart and to prevent that 
loss of heat by the skin which would occur if the arterioles did 
not become constricted. In fact, of course, some body heat 
is lost to the cold water, but more would be lost without this 
mechanism. The arterioles of the skin only remain con- 
stricted for a short period. Soon the opposing reflex com- 
mences, and the arterioles dilate. If the bath has been a 
short one the dilatation does not occur until the person is 
out of the bath, and the warm glow so much liked by those 
who are able to take cold baths is due to the dilatation of the 
vessels of the skin and the increased flow of warm blood to 
the periphery. Loss of heat then begins, which is, however, 
ordinarily prevented by the clothes. If, however, the bath 
itself be prolonged, then the dilatation occurs in the bath 
and the heat of the body is lost to the water, the temper- 
ature of which is raised thereby. The pulse-rate is slowed 
by a cold bath, the blood pressure goes up, and the heart- 
beat is fuller and deeper. 

Roughly, it may be said that a bath at the temperature 

1 The Principles and Practice of Medical Hydrology, chap. i. 
8 The Principles and Practice of Hydrotherapy, p. 36, 



86 HYGIENE 

of the skin has no decisive effect, the temperature being one 
of " thermal indifference." This temperature is not abso- 
lute, and differs under different circumstances, and with 
different persons ; 93 degrees Fahrenheit may be taken as 
an average temperature for the skin. Fox 1 states that a 
cool bath leads to increased consumption of fat to supply the 
loss of heat. The loss rapidly increases as the temperature 
of the water used is reduced. At 86 F. the loss may be 
double that at ordinary body temperature, while at 68 F. 
the loss may be five times as great. Rubner 8 found that a 
brief cold bath caused a great increase in CO 2 output and a 
rise, but to a less degree, in oxygen intake. 

Evidently, then, cold baths stimulate the circulation and 
throw more work on the heart. Those persons with normal 
hearts feel greatly refreshed by a daily cold bath in the 
morning, but there are people who do not feel that glow 
which should follow after a bath. That is to say, the re- 
action which should follow does not do so, and instead they 
feel cold and depressed because the heart has not responded 
to the stimulus. These persons should not take a cold bath, 
except perhaps in warm weather, when the temperature of 
the water may be such as will not produce a stimulus so 
intense that the heart cannot properly respond to it. A 
prolonged cold bath will always be depressing owing to the 
loss of heat and the increased combustion brought about. 

A hot bath causes heat to be retained in the body. The 
warmth brings about a dilatation of the arterioles of the skin, 
but if, as is usual, the temperature of the water is above 
that of the body, heat will not be lost, but the heat which is 
always being formed by the body is not given off and the 
general body temperature is raised. The activity of the 
sweat glands is increased by the temperature. Metabolism 
rises in proportion to the heat and to the duration of the 
bath. A bath of 104 F. may cause a rise of body tempera- 
ture of as much as five degrees in half an hour. The pulse- 
rate is accelerated, and the blood-pressure goes up with hot 
baths. 

1 Loc. cit. * Quoted by Fox, loc. cit., p. 58. 



GENERAL AND PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 87 

Enough has been said to show that baths produce general 
effects on the body, and that they cannot be regarded merely 
as a method of cleansing. If taken rightly the stimulus is 
beneficial to normal persons. Cold baths taken when the 
skin is active, as, for example, after exercise, may throw too 
great a strain on the internal parts. Again, a cold bath at 
night when the body is fatigued is also undesirable for similar 
reasons. After a hot bath the skin is acting freely, and there 
is a tendency to loss of heat. Care should then be taken not 
to expose the skin to cold ; if taken in the morning the clothes 
should be put on at once, or if at night then it is wise to seek 
the warmth of the bed without undue delay. 

Excessive and too frequent use of baths is enervating 
owing to the fatigue which arises as the result of much 
stimulation. Taken in moderation baths are beneficial as 
a whole, but some degree of discretion must be exercised. 
The monthly periods form no contra-indication to the use 
of baths, which may be taken freely at such times. It will 
usually be advisable to avoid either very hot or very cold 
baths, especially the latter, although some persons appear 
to experience no inconvenience from them. 

The skin should be dried very carefully after a bath, 
especially in the folds of the skin. Moisture left on the body 
will evaporate, giving rise to loss of heat and subsequent 
possible chill. Young people not infrequently wish to take 
a bath immediately after exercise, when the arterioles are 
dilated and the skin-glands secreting freely. In such a case 
the bath should have a medium temperature. Cold would 
be dangerous for the reasons given above, and a hot bath 
would tend to raise the body temperature, already probably 
slightly above the average with the exercise. It is better not 
to rush for a bath immediately after exercise, but to wait a 
little until the effects of the exercise have somewhat subsided. 

Sea-bathing lies somewhat outside the scope of this book. 
It is, however, perhaps useful to draw attention to the effects 
of bathing on the circulation. Miiller l conducted an 

1 Einfluss der Seebdder auf die Blutzirkulation des Menschen, Verhana 
intern. Kongress /. Thalassatherapie, June 1911. 



88 HYGIENE 

extensive investigation into the circulation after bathing 
for 8-10 minutes in the North Sea. He found an increase 
in the pulse-rate, together with a marked constriction of the 
skin-vessels, which persisted for several minutes after coming 
out of the water. The effect was accentuated on days when 
there were waves of some size. He points out the strain 
which is thrown on the heart, and emphasizes the need for 
caution in bathing, especially if there be any doubt as to the 
soundness of the heart and arteries. It is probable that the 
effects are largely due to the cold water, and would be reduced 
in warmer water than that of the North Sea. The added 
effect of the waves, however, indicates that the temperature 
is not the only factor. 

Cleanliness does not, however, only mean cleanliness of 
the body, but must be regarded as extending to the clothing. 
The garments receive dirt from outside and collect the 
secretion of the skin on the inside. This last soon gives 
rise to an unpleasant odour if the garments are not washed 
sufficiently often. All garments require washing or cleaning 
at intervals which vary according to the nature of the 
article and the stuff of which it is made. The edges of 
garments where they rub against the skin are especially 
very soon soiled, and require frequent washing. 

It is difficult to bring forward any concrete statements 
on the detrimental effects of dirty garments. Everyone 
is well aware of the pleasant feeling of getting into clean 
clothes after a journey, or when a clean set of clothes is 
put on. It is not unlikely that dirt and its accompanying 
germs exercise some subtle influence upon us without 
producing any direct effect which can reasonably be called 
pathological. We know that in epidemics death and 
disease find their surest victims among those living in dirty 
surroundings and who are themselves dirty both in their 
persons and in their clothing. Possibly the continued con- 
tact with dirt brings about a condition of low resistance 
to infection, and dirty clothing may well be productive of 
some form of the same process. 

Brushing forms a useful adjunct to washing for certain 



GENERAL AND PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 89 

garments. Hats, cloaks, and other outer garments, which 
from their nature cannot be washed very often, if at all, 
can be kept free from dust and from a good deal of dirt by 
frequent brushing. In addition, the articles are themselves 
preserved and keep their appearance better than those 
which are not so treated. Special care should be given to 
pleats or folds, and even to the seams of clothes, in all of 
which places dust will tend to lie unless brushed away. 
Again, it may be repeated that dirt and dust mean microbes, 
of which some will probably be directly harmful and against 
which precautions should be taken by effecting their 
removal, and if possible destruction, as rapidly as possible. 



CHAPTER VIII 

ON CLOTHING 

THE close relationship between good health and proper 
clothing has not yet been fully appreciated. This is due 
partly to ignorance and partly to the psychological aspect 
of clothes. It is probable that this latter factor has been 
of much greater influence than appears on the surface. 
Clothing may be regarded as having two primary objects : 
(i) to conceal the major part of the body for the sake of 
decency, and (2) to protect the body from the climate. 
The two objects are almost impossible to disentangle in 
surveying the ordinary garments worn in this country, and 
they are in a manner inevitably associated. Ordinarily 
the outer dress is worn for ornament, but may also serve 
to keep the body warm in winter, and the under* garments 
act as protectors of the body against the weather. Both 
sets of garments should be modified to suit seasonable 
changes in climate. Clothing is further complicated by 
the need for cleanliness, which demands the use of washing 
materials or the need of cleaning by one or other of the 
various processes available. 

The point of practical importance in the matter of 
clothing is to combine sufficient protection with adequate 
ventilation. The great value of this last is insisted upon in 
Chapter VI. Clothing which retains the body-heat too 
much, and which conversely prevents the entrance of air, 
may keep the skin in a state of activity over unduly long 
periods, and be the source of ultimate depression of health. 

The skin is continually giving off water vapour, which, 
owing to the lower temperature of the air around the body, 
condenses into water, and subsequently undergoes e vapor a- 

90 



CLOTHING gi 

tion from the skin. In hot weather, or after much exercise, 
the sweat-glands are very active, and everyone is familiar 
with the secretion of fluid which occurs. This fluid gradually 
evaporates, but, in doing so, large amounts of heat are 
taken up from whatever substance there may be near it. 
If the fluid is lying on the skin, then the heat necessary for 
its vaporization is abstracted from the body. If the fluid 
is absorbed by a garment the place of vaporization is to 
some extent transferred from the body itself, being separated 
from it by the thin layer of air found between the skin and 
the garment. The presence of other garments outside the 
inner one acts in similar fashion. The object of putting on 
a warm garment after severe exercise is to reduce the rate 
of evaporation. 

It is important that vaporization should not proceed too 
rapidly in warm weather : the vessels of the skin are filled 
with blood, and a rapid vaporization, by producing a rapid 
cooling, closes down the skin-vessels, throwing the blood 
into the inner parts of the body and giving rise to congestion 
and disturbance, which we term a " chill." The chilly 
sensation experienced is due to the rapid cooling of the 
skin, giving rise to a marked difference in temperature 
between the skin and the inner parts. 

A good many investigations have been carried out on the 
relative merits of different materials as clothing. Much 
will depend upon the climate and upon the occupation of 
the individual. The materials most commonly used for 
clothing are wool, cotton, silk and linen, and the properties 
of these will be first of all considered, and then their conse- 
quent applicability as garments. 

The power of absorption of water is clearly an important 
property of clothing. The amount of water which can be 
taken up by any material bears a close relationship to the 
amount of air it holds when dry. All materials consist of 
fibres ; these are smooth outside and hollow inside in the 
case of cotton and linen, while the wool fibre is solid in 
structure and its outside scaly. Woven or knitted wools 
hold large amounts of air in their meshes, as also does 



92 HYGIENE 

cotton when loosely woven in several layers, as in the case 
of cellular cotton materials. 

Water vapour penetrates into these materials with about 
equal ease, but the amounts of water the materials will 
hold vary considerably and are generally highest in the 
case of wool, although considerable differences are noted 
by various observers. Evidently the precise nature of the 
material used will cause wide differences in results, but, 
generally, the absorptive power of wool is higher than silk, 
and that of silk than that of cotton. Many materials 
retain considerable amounts of air in their pores even after 
wetting, as is shown by the following figures l : 



1,000 parts. 


Pore volume, dry. 


Pore volume, wet . 


Flannel ...... 


923 


803 


Cotton flannelette .... 


888 


7 2 3 


Knitted silk 


832 


501 


wool ..... 


833 


612 


cotton ..... 


747 


617 


linen ..... 


833 


318 


Smooth cotton ..... 


520 


o 



It is evident, therefore, that wool has both the greatest 
power of absorption of water and also retains most air on 
getting wet. Further, wool, owing to the structure of its 
fibre, does not lie so closely in contact with the skin, and 
will therefore admit of free ventilation, and will less readily 
take up heat from the body and bring about rapid vaporiza- 
tion of the water. 

The degree of contact made by various materials was 
studied by Hill and his collaborators by taking disks of 
various materials, moistening them with a dye, and gently 
pressing them on paper. The impressions left are shown in 
fig. 23, 2 and demonstrate the great superiority of flannel over 
other materials. The degree of protection from cooling is 
also good with flannel, although the protection afforded 

1 Med. Res. Council Report, No. 52, p. 236. 
See fig. 36, M.R.S. Report 52, p. 236. 



CLOTHING 93 

depends also upon other factors than the precise nature of 
the material. 

Taken as a whole, wool is clearly the best material for 
wearing next the skin, and should be worn in varying 
thickness of material according to the weather. Woven 
garments which fit closely, but not sufficiently so to hamper 
the movements of the body, are excellent, but well-made 
garments of any kind of woollen material will also serve. 




Flannelette. Angola Cotton. 

r ~~^:~77~ 7 ~ ; 




j 

Cotton shirting. Silk. Cotton, open mesh. 

FIG. 23. Disks of the various materials, moistened with a dye (the 
excess squeezed out). Laid on paper and a photographer's roller lightly 
passed over them. The less the degree of contact, the less the impression 
left. 

(By permission of His Majesty's Stationery Office.) 

Cotton in the form of calico, or one of the numerous similar 
materials on the market, is not good, as is shown by the 
figures already given. Plain cotton material is a good 
absorber of moisture, and, while pleasantly cool in summer, 
is not a safe article in regard to chills, owing to the rapid 
evaporation from it. There are a number of special forms 
of cotton garments which are a great improvement upon 
ordinary cotton stuff. The cotton threads are woven so 



94 HYGIENE 

that they form several layers, and hold much air, thus 
adding greatly to the power of the material to prevent the 
dispersal of the body heat in winter, and aiding the absorp- 
tion of moisture in summer. Of these types probably 
Morton's and the Aertex cellular make are the best known. 

Silk is a good absorbent, and if closely woven will act 
as a fair protection to the body in winter. It is, however, 
very expensive, and does not last very long. For the 
person of average income the two materials available are 
wool and cotton. Flannelette, which is made entirely of 
cotton, has a feeling which in some ways resembles wool. 
It is heavier in texture than ordinary cotton goods, which 
tends to produce a greater protection for the body. For 
this reason it is widely used as a substitute for wool among 
poor persons, but it does not replace wool from the hygienic 
point of view. Linen has advantages over cotton in 
retention of heat, but it does not absorb moisture readily. 
Flannelette, being cotton, is more inflammable than wool ; 
owing to its widespread use efforts have been made to 
render it non-inflammable. This is done by impregnating 
the material with mineral matter : on washing, nearly all 
this mineral matter is left behind in the water, and the 
flannelette is then again inflammable. 

The value of layers of air for the protection of the body 
against cold should be borne in mind. Fur holds a large 
amount of air in between its hairs, and it is these immobile 
layers of air which make fur so warm to wear. Other 
things being equal, two garments of thin material will be 
warmer than one garment of the same material but of 
thickness equal to the joint thickness of the two layers. 
This is due to the non-conducting layer of air between the 
two garments. 

The closer the mesh of the material, the more will it 
protect against wind. Rubber garments or other material 
of very fine mesh keep out the rain but give poor ventila- 
tion, and are therefore bad for the skin and general health. 
It is healthier to get wet out-of-doors and change the wet 
clothes on coming in. Although evaporation and loss of 



CLOTHING 95 

heat are going on, the wet garments have been shown by 
Hill to have almost as much protective power as dry ones 
in preventing loss of body heat, especially if the material 
is of a close mesh. So long as heat is being produced by 
exercise there is no appreciable danger of a chill resulting 
from wet garments. They should, however, be removed 
at once on entering the house, when exercise ceases, and 
dry ones substituted. 

Dry, well-aired garments have been shown by Hill to 
develop heat on becoming moistened. A thoroughly aired 
garment affords the well-known feeling of warmth and 
comfort, because, in absorbing the vapour from the skin, 
it actually gives off heat (cp. p. 54 (footnote) ). 

The material worn next to the skin will also be in contact 
with and absorb the other substances which form part of 
the sweat and of the excretions of the body. The clothing 
should not retain odours, and for this again wool is most 
suitable. Cotton absorbs odours and requires even more 
frequent washing than wool. 

The garments which are worn between the inmost one 
and the outer dress will vary a good deal both with the 
age and fancy of the individual. In each case, however, 
garments should admit full freedom of movement, and there 
should be no constriction of any part. These will be dealt 
with in further detail later. The outer garments for indoor 
wear will vary with the season and to some extent with 
the occupation. In this country, where central heating is 
unusual in private houses, the garments require to be 
warmer than in countries where central heating is general. 
The garments worn out-of-doors will again differ with the 
season. 

It is important that the total weight of clothing should 
not be such as to render exercise difficult, or to cause 
fatigue to the wearer. 

The outer garment worn in the house is usually the one 
to which most attention is devoted in relation to its appear- 
ance. It is this part of the clothing upon which people 
depend for their general appearance, and it may be said 



96 HYGIENE 

at once that society, with its communal life, demands that 
each individual shall show a certain standard of dress, 
which standard must include neatness and cleanliness. 

The commoner articles of clothing will be discussed later 
in detail, and their unhygienic tendencies pointed out. 
Unsatisfactory as many of them are, they undoubtedly 
show a great advance upon those of even as little a while 
ago as twenty years, and, if the pictures of garments of 
earlier centuries are considered, the advance is found to be 
even greater. 

INFANTS' CLOTHING 

The principles laid down for clothing in general hold 
good for infants. They need one warm garment next to 
the skin, a further garment for warmth, and an outer frock. 
In the early period of life a napkin is necessary in addition. 
The warm garment should be of wool, and may profitably 
be knitted. A little vest, opening in front and having a 
free expansion to allow either for growth of the child or 
shrinkage of the wool, is best. It should not be so long 
as to become soiled, but it should be long enough to reach 
to the upper border of the napkin, to which it can, if neces- 
sary, be fixed with a safety-pin. Either the vest or the 
covering garment should have a sleeve reaching to the wrist 
(see right lower garment, fig. 24). 

The binder of ancient days still holds sway in some 
districts, but is only mentioned here to be condemned. 
During the early days after birth until the remains of the 
umbilical cord have fallen off, there must be a bandage 
around the abdomen which holds the dry dressing of the 
cord in place. But when this latter has fallen off there is 
no further need for a binder. The old-fashioned binder 
was made of flannel and was some six inches broad, and 
long enough to pass several times round the child's body. 
The unfortunate infant was literally squeezed so as to secure 
the maximum tightness of the binder, which was then sewn 
up in such a way as, if possible, to tighten it still further. 
The child usually had the sense to resist stoutly, but its 



CLOTHING 



97 



efforts were of course unavailing against those of the superior 
adult force. Now this binder had many really harmful 
points. In the first place, it constricted the muscles of the 
abdomen and the organs inside the body. Muscles which 
are unable to be freely moved do not develop, but remain 
flabby, and there can be little doubt that much harm was 
done in this way by the binder. Further, the constriction 
of the organs is a pre- 
disposing factor to con- 
stipation, since the in- 
testinal movements are 
not free, and in addition 
the important aid of the 
abdominal muscles is 
lost, since these are 
hindered in their move- 
ment and development. 

The binder, moreover, 
has a tendency to move 
upwards towards the 
chest, when it will leave 
its original site of the 
lower part of the ab- 
domen and pass to the 
upper part of the ab- 
domen and the lower 
part of the chest. Here 
it prevents the proper 
movements of breathing 
an all-important item and may likewise interfere with 
-digestion. The common plea given by mothers, that it 
helps to strengthen the child's back, is a fallacy, as it has 
just the opposite effect. 

The binder is, however, dear to the heart of many, and 
some difficulty is often experienced in persuading the 
mother that it is unadvisable. As a temporary measure it 
may be necessary to use a knitted binder of sufficient size 
to slip loosely over the body (see lower left garment, 
7 




FIG. 24. Infant's garments, showing 
vest with long sleeves, opening in front, 
knitted binder, and garment for outdoor 
wear to cover the lower portions of the 
body. 



98 HYGIENE 

fig. 24). But this, if carelessly and frequently washed, will 
shrink in time and become hard and tight to a degree that 
may be even worse than the old flannel one. 

The chilly little cotton shirt formerly worn next the skin 
in infants has nothing to commend it, but is still found in 
certain districts. 

The napkins can be made of Turkish towelling or other 
material, but whatever is used it is necessary that it should 
be material of good absorbent power and be able to be washed 
a great number of times. The outer flannel napkin formerly 
seen is hardly used nowadays, being hot and lacking in 
ventilation. Still worse was the mackintosh napkin which 
has even been seen in children's hospitals not so many years 
ago. The need for a large number of clean napkins must 
be faced, and also for continued washing. Napkins should 
never be used after merely drying, but should always be 
washed if once soiled. Where there are several children 
the napkins should always be boiled between use, as no 
child should wear a napkin which has been worn by another 
without previous boiling. Minor but subtle infections are 
conveyed by this means, although the origin of the trouble 
is not always realized. 

The garment which is placed over the vest and napkin 
will vary a good deal according to the weather and to 
individual taste. Except in hot weather it is best of 
flannel and should stretch down over the toes to keep them 
warm. Sometimes a string is run along the hem and 
drawn up so as to keep the toes covered (see left-hand 
garment, fig. 25). This garment will need sleeves if the 
vest does not have them. The dress may be of any material, 
but it should not be very long (cp. right-hand garment, fig. 
25). The long robe, while seemingly dear to the hearts of 
nurses and mothers, weighs down the tiny feet and prevents 
their free movement, and also interferes with ventilation. 
The dress is best made fairly plain, and it should not be 
tied up tightly round the neck nor be tight round the top 
of the arm or wrist. There are any number of pretty 
patterns suitable for dresses. Readers are referred for details 



CLOTHING 99 

to some of the following books, which are only some of the 
many now published : Simple Garments for Children, and 
Simpler-Garments for Infants, M. B. Synge (Longmans). 
Baby Clothing, W. Hitching (Chambers). 

The three-quarter length clothes for infants have the 
great advantage that they can be used until the child 
begins to crawl about, by which time they are probably 
considerably the worse for wear and a fresh set is needed 
in any case. The long garments which are replaced by 




FIG. 25. Infants' garments. For description see text. 

the so-called short ones at about six or eight weeks are 
unnecessary, and an extra expense. Many poor mothers, 
for this reason, will buy thin and unsatisfactory " long " 
dothes which the child has to wear during its most sus- 
ceptible period immediately after birth, and is not kept 
warm in the more suitable clothes which are awaiting it a 
few weeks later. The importance of warm, loose clothing 
for infants can hardly be over-emphasized. 

The outdoor garments should also be simple and warm 
but of light weight. The hood may suitably be a plain 
knitted one or a loose cotton one in summer. The air 



ioo HYGIENE 

should be allowed to reach the skin of the head. The 
thick padded and embroidered hood tightly tied under the 
chin is not hygienic, but is frequently seen. It appears to 
be considered very ornamental, and its use dies hard. The 
pelisse is often modelled on similar lines and of heavy 
weight. To the above is not infrequently added a thick 
woollen veil, so that the air, which the child is taken out 
to obtain, is effectually prevented from reaching it. 

As teething begins the saliva dribbles out of the child's 
mouth. At this stage precautions should be taken to 
prevent the clothes getting wet. The saliva may soak 
right through to the skin, making the chest cold and risking 
an attack of bronchitis. Where the slobbering is very 
persistent a waterproof bib may be necessary, but a thick 
cotton one may be sufficient. 

When the clothes are made short the feet need covering, 
and warm socks should be worn, but for the other garments 
the same principles apply as for long or three-quarter 
clothes. The flannelette skirt with calico bodice is most 
unsatisfactory. The bodice is stuffy without being warm, 
and the petticoat also gives little warmth. To remedy this 
latter defect several of these garments are frequently worn 
one over the other. This means more washing, and is 
certainly no cheaper than one good flannel petticoat with 
flannel bodice. 

The loosely knitted overall gaiters drawn over the legs 
and feet and fastened round the waist are good for out- 
doors (cp. top garment, fig. 24). 

- The child who is never really warm will not have the 
same satisfactory circulation, and its vitality will be reduced 
compared with one that is kept warm. A really healthy, 
properly clothed infant will have a good circulation and 
its extremities and the body generally will be warm, which 
will materially aid its general progress. Again, the child 
who is overloaded with clothes may be too heated, but will 
be unable to secure the necessary movement of its limbs. 
In summer especially, it will tend to be fretful with the 
undue warmth of its clothing. 



CLOTHING 



101 



Elaborate embroidery and other forms of trimming have 
a tendency to make the clothing fussy or to be less warm 
than a plain garment. The child is better with simple 
garments which can be washed readily and without detri- 
ment to the articles themselves. 

When the infant has reached the age when napkins are 
no longer essential little flannel drawers of simple pattern 
should be provided (see fig. 26). The not uncommon 
practice of allowing children to crawl about without any 
covering over the legs and lower part of the abdomen is 
thoroughly bad. It 
is bad both for the 
health and general 
moral standard of the 
child. It risks chills 
from sitting on the 
cold pavement or 
floor, and the lower 
part of the body which 
should be kept warm 
is not even covered, 
and will almost cer- 
tainly be cold. 

In addition the 
child gets into dirty 
habits, and if it has 

not already been got into good and cleanly habits it will 
not learn to be clean by having no nether garments on. 
On the contrary, the trouble will be made worse and will be 
more difficult to deal with at a later age. 

Then, again, there is the risk of infection, which may be 
contracted by the child from the contact of the pavement 
or floor with the uncovered parts. 

Older Children. The age at which the sex of children is 
marked by a differentiation of clothing varies a good deal 
with the development of the child and the fancy of the 
individual parents. When, however, the differentiation 
has been_ decided upon the same principles as already given 




FIG. 26. Flannel drawers : simple pattern. 



IO2 



HYGIENE 



above should be observed. The garments should be simple, 
warm, give freedom of movement to all parts, and be readily 
washable. Little boys will usually require a flannel shirt and 
drawers, or the trousers may be lined with some suitable 
washable material (see fig. 27). The cellular cotton stuffs 
are very good for this purpose. The trousers should also 
be of washable material, navy blue serge being very suitable 

for the winter. The 
majority of plain 
woollen stuffs will 
wash without detri- 
ment, however, if the 
washing is carefully 
done. Knitted jer- 
seys are good for a 
further covering of 
the upper part of the 
body. These can be 
made out of various 
stuffs as well as being 
knitted. Thus the 
tops of ladies' stock- 
ings of which the 
feet are worn out, if 
cut open, make ex- 
cellent little jerseys 
or frocks (see fig. 28). 
These are shown at 
many infant welfare 
centres, where other 

equally ingenious contrivances for economy can often be 
seen. Some kind of outdoor coat will also be needed for 
the winter. In the summer time the clothes can be made 
of lighter material, but it must be remembered that the 
child will run about and get hot, and that it will be better 
to retain a flannel shirt, so as to avoid the risk of chills. 

The garments for little girls should also be simple and plain. 
Plenty of room must be left for movement. Some form of 




FIG. 27. Little boy's garments. Sweater 
and shirt above, trousers with removable 
washing lining below. 



CLOTHING 



103 



woollen vest or bodice should be worn next to the skin, and 
flannel drawers, at any rate during the winter. At the 
present time knickers have largely superseded the petticoat 
of former days even for little girls. It should be remem- 
bered, however, that these will require washing, and they 
should either be made of washable material, or should be 
provided with washable linings. The knickers themselves, 
even if lined, will also want washing at intervals (see fig. 29). 

The other garments 
will vary very much in 
type according to the 
fancy and convenience 
of the mother. Chemises 
may be worn, or cotton 
combinations, between 
the vest and the 
knickers, or petticoats 
with bodices of different 
kinds. Above these an 
overall or a frock is 
usual, or, in older chil- 
dren, a blouse and 
skirt. Each variety of 
the upper garment has 
its points. The frock 
may give more warmth 
to the upper part than 
the blouse, as it will 

more often be made of warmer stuff. On the other hand, 
these are not infrequently made too tight, especially 
across the chest, thus constricting the proper movement 
of the ribs in breathing. Also the frock gets dirty round 
the neck and under the arms and probably does not get 
washed so readily as the blouse. A blouse, however, may 
be made of some light material such as cotton, and in- 
correctly be considered sufficient clothing even in winter. 
Woollen jerseys made similarly to those for boys are very 
nice for girls. 




FIG. 28. Frock made from the tops of 
woollen stockings, whose feet were worn 
out. Sleeves can be added from the 
same material, if desired. 



104 HYGIENE 

A few words seem desirable as to corsets for little girls. 
They are not at all necessary. The object of a corset is to 
support the breasts. Up to puberty the development of 
the breasts is so small as to be negligible. Corsets only 
hamper movement in girls, and, if tight or fitted with bones, 
will tend to constrict the figure and chest. There is, 
however, no harm in a simple unboned corset provided that 
it is not tight, and it can serve as a means of support either 
to suspenders for stockings or to petticoats if worn. 




FIG. 29. Showing white flannel blouse worn 
with loose serge dress ; serge knickers with re- 
movable lining, and flannel bodice on which the 
stocking suspenders may be fixed. 

Suitable Footgear is of the utmost importance for both 
sexes. The feet should be warm and dry, not cold and damp. 
Socks are satisfactory for warm weather, but, if worn, they 
should not be supported on the leg by tight garters. Not 
infrequently children can be seen with red marks round the 
calves of their legs where the tight garter has pressed on the 
skin and underlying parts. Stockings which are carried 
over the calf of the leg will stay up better owing to the form 
of the leg, and a tight garter is not necessary. For little 
girls the stocking can be brought over the knee and held 
by suspenders from some form of small and unstiffened 
corset. The stockings should not, however, be so tightly 
strained over the knee as to cause any effort of movement in 



CLOTHING . 105 

walking.. The stockings or socks should be of suitable 
warmth according to the weather. Thick stockings are 
needed both for boys and girls during the cold weather, 
though thinner ones may be worn during the summer. 
Stockings serve not only to keep the feet and legs warm and 
to provide protection against the hardness of the boot or 
shoe, but also to absorb the moisture from the foot when 
heated after exercise or in the hot weather. 

There are two essentials for boots and shoes, namely, they 
must be water-tight and large enough. Damp feet owing to 
defective boots or shoes are a potent source of chills and 
illness. The feet are cold owing to the evaporation of the 
moisture, and cold feet are harmful to the general health. 
Some physicians regard damp, and hence cold feet, as 
predisposing factors of no less serious a disease than rheu- 
matic fever, apart from less serious troubles. The importance 
of adequate boots for children is now widely appreciated, and 
many schools have boot-clubs for the scholars. Tight 
boots are bad. They give pain and make the child unwilling 
to take sufficient exercise. Further, it seems almost certain 
that the friction resulting from tight footgear produces corns 
and deformities of the feet which are detrimental to the 
individual throughout life. 

Hats and caps are usually worn, but it is very doubtful 
how far they are really necessary except against great heat 
or wet weather. The wearing of a covering for the head is 
in this climate more attributable to custom or fashion than 
to its desirability as a protection. This is evident both 
from the experience of those who, in the country, seldom if 
ever wear hats, and also from the fact that, when it is fashion- 
able to do so, numbers of women wear hats which are in effect 
either so small as to cease to be a covering, or composed of 
one layer of tulle, which cannot be regarded as forming any 
protection for the head. Yet no harm is found to result from 
these eccentricities of fashion. On the other hand, the air is 
allowed free access to the head and ventilation is secured for 
the hair and skin of the head. These are great advantages, 
and may have a favourable effect on the growth of the hair. 



CHAPTER IX 

CLOTHING FOR WOMEN 

OF recent years the child welfare movement has attracted 
a good deal of attention to the clothing of infants and 
young children, so that it is now regarded as a definite part 
of child hygiene. Attention has, however, so far hardly 
been given to the problem of adult clothing in relation to 
general health. There can be no doubt that the importance 
of adequate and suitable clothing is fully as great for adults 
as for children, and that many ailments must be laid to the 
door of unsuitable garments. 

With adult age the psychological factor comes into play, 
and fashion tends to be considered more than hygiene. The 
young woman rarely stops to inquire or even to think whether 
the fashions she follows are sensible or not, still less whether 
they are good for her health. The change of fashions 
brings alterations in the nature of the unsuitability of the 
garments worn, but most fashions have some aspects about 
them which cannot be regarded as other than unhygienic. 

Speaking generally, it may be said that the clothing as a 
whole has become more reasonable than it was in former 
years, but this must be placed rather to the credit of the 
development of outdoor games than to the desire of the 
fashion-makers to produce suitable clothes for the health of 
the body. The discomfort which large numbers of women 
will endure for the sake of fashion is worthy of a better 
cause. 

The same general principles should be observed as have 
already been set out for infants. Yet how often does 
fashion prescribe garments which constrict one part or 
another of the body, and which, by their nature and style, 

106 



CLOTHING FOR WOMEN 107 

cannot admit of adequate warmth in winter, in addition to 
many other evils or difficulties. 

The undergarments should be sufficient for warmth and 
decency. As in infants, there should be a warm woollen 
article next the skin. Except possibly in really warm 
weather the lower part of the abdomen and the upper part 
of the legs should be covered by wool of varying degrees of 
thickness, according to the temperature and feelings of the 
wearer. The weather in this country is seldom hot enough 
to require specially thin woollen garments. The lower part 
of the abdomen should be kept warm. Many of the minor 
troubles of women are doubtless due to lack of this precaution, 
especially the matter of pain or discomfort at the monthly 
periods. A cholera belt, that is a woven belt, which can be 
worn round the lowejr abdomen and over the hips often 
answers the purpose very well, provided that the other 
garments are sufficiently warm. Over the warm vest or 
combination it is usual to wear some form of cotton garment 
either a chemise or combination. These vary greatly in 
style and in material. In the case of those who wish to 
appear as slim as possible it is probable that the cotton gar- 
ments are frequently omitted from the wardrobe. It seems 
impossible to suppose that the modest amount of clothing 
prescribed by the present fashions can secure anything 
approaching warmth during the winter. 

The petticoat of days gone by has now been almost 
entirely replaced by knickers. In many ways this is a 
great improvement. The knickers are warmer if made with 
suitable material, and less bulky. They do not impede 
movement as do petticoats, and are much more comfortable. 
It must, however, be remembered that they require 
washing, and unless washed frequently should have linings 
which can be removed and washed every few days. 

A petticoat of some material which will make the skirt 
slip easily is often worn over the knickers, or one of warm 
stuff to add to the general warmth. Again, however, it 
must be borne in mind that petticoats will need either 
washing or cleaning occasionally. Other articles of clothing 



io8 HYGIENE 

such as camisoles, etc., are purely a. matter of taste; but a 
sufficient number of clothes should be worn in winter to 
ensure that the circulation is satisfactory in all parts of 
the body. 

The little thin silk blouse so often seen even in winter 
cannot be regarded as an adequate covering, nor do the 
wearers usually pretend to a feeling of more than moderate 
comfort in the matter of warmth. Hygienically. this is most 
unsatisfactory, and the very short sleeves of recent mode, 
together with the very low necks of dresses, have been even 
more unsuitable. 

The shorter skirt is undoubtedly a gain both in the matter 
of freedom and of general cleanliness, provided that it is 
not carried so far as to be ugly, which is not infrequently the 
case. The long, trailing skirt of former days has, it is hoped, 
gone for ever. It was insanitary if not held up out of the 
mud, and fatiguing to the wearer when this was done. But 
dresses and coats and skirts all get dirty in towns and require 
periodic cleaning, especially the coats and dresses of the 
present fashion, which are worn against the neck, too often 
without any washable article between the material and 
the skin. 

There seems to be a constant tendency on the part of 
fashion -makers to favour constriction of one part of the 
body or another. At one time it is the waist, at another 
the neck, and again at another the feef may be attacked for 
their size. All forms of constriction are bad, and to be 
studiously avoided. The form most prevalent with many 
fashions is constriction of the waist. Just now it is not 
in vogue, but will doubtless return unless women will have 
sufficient sense not to adopt it. Tight-lacing or constric- 
tion of the waist is not merely most uncomfortable, but pro- 
duces troubles which cannot easily be put right later. 
Corsets may suitably form part of a woman's dress, but they 
should be worn loose, and be regarded merely as providing 
a support for the breasts and for the abdomen, where this 
latter is necessary. Constriction of the waist leads at once 
to difficulty in breathing. The breathing must inevitably 



CLOTHING FOR WOMEN 109 

be of the purely thoracic type, since expansion of the 
abdomen is not possible. Interference with breathing leads 
to interference with free circulation, with its accompanying 
general disturbance. 

In addition the tight waist will cause pressure on the 
abdominal organs, which, if continued, will probably pro- 
duce indigestion, from interference with the functions of the 
organs concerned, and constipation from pressure on the 
abdomen, with possible displacement of some of the parts 
concerned. The troubles caused by this undesirable state 
of affairs are accentuated in pregnancy. 

It is amazing that tight-lacing can ever be regarded as an 
attraction, since the body is not thereby diminished in size, 
but only displaced downwards, where the unnatural bulge 
produced is unsightly and unattractive. Ease of movement 
cannot accompany a tight waist, and this detracts yet 
further from the appearance of those who subject their 
bodies to the indignity of constriction of the waist. 

Another site of constriction is the neck. The present 
fashion of open neck effectually prevents any constriction, 
and is good, but it is not long ago that high neckbands were 
worn or high starched collars. These, if they did not 
actually constrict the part, were usually sufficiently tight to 
restrict free movement and produced enough friction to be 
thoroughly uncomfortable when active work had to be 
undertaken. It is remarkable that these high, stiff collars 
are still adhered to by men, who usually make for comfort 
in clothes, and in the nurse's uniform, where an open neck 
and lace or muslin collar would surely be more comfortable 
and more suitable generally. Possibly the low collar might 
tend to be less tidy, but a stiff collar, when not properly 
fastened or when slightly soiled, can also have a very un- 
sightly appearance. 

An appreciable, but not extreme, constriction of the 
neck by clothes interferes with the return flow in the veins, 
leading to a sense of fullness in the head, and may even tend 
to produce headache. 

Then there is the tight garter below the knee. There is 



no HYGIENE 

no need for it to be tight enough to cause constriction, 
although this is often the case. The garter is very usually 
now replaced by suspenders which hold up the stockings 
above the knee. Among the poorer classes, however, garters 
are very common. Suspenders, while good in principle, are 
sometimes so tightly fastened up as to restrict the move- 
ments of the knee and surrounding muscles. 

The tight band below the knee is especially bad where 
there is a tendency to varicose veins, and may not improb- 
ably be a predisposing factor to this trouble. The con- 
striction causes a decrease in the flow in the superficial veins 
which produces a deterioration in the vessel walls leading 
to back pressure and subsequent stretching, with the 
formation of varicosities and the attendant pain and dis- 
comfort of this condition. Varicose veins are far from un- 
common among women of the working classes who have to 
stand a great deal, and are often in a poor state of general 
health. 

The hygiene of the feet is very important. The remarks 
which have been made already on this subject in connection 
with children's clothing apply equally to adults, but there 
are other pitfalls for the young adult, which, if fallen into, 
lead to difficulty in later years. The care of the feet, 
however, is sufficiently important to require a chapter to 
itself. Inadequacy of protection for the foot is frequently 
found in the stockings worn. The best material for stockings 
is wool, and suitable degrees of thickness can be obtained to 
suit all weathers. The wool absorbs moisture from the feet 
in hot weather. The amount of secretion is not incon- 
siderable in most persons in hot weather or with exercise. 
Thread or silk stockings do not act in the same way, and are 
not warm enough for winter. The present fashion of 
wearing thin silk stockings with low shoes during the winter 
has no justification hygienically, and is not to be regarded as 
satisfactory. Stockings should be large enough for the 
feet, and should not be worn when shrunken in the wash, 
so that they compress the feet. More pressure is exercised 
by stockings than might ordinarily be supposed. The relief 



CLOTHING FOR WOMEN in 

experienced on removal of a stocking when the foot is slightly 
swollen after exercise gives some idea of the continual slight 
pressure which may be exercised throughout the day. If the 
stocking is too small in any direction, the compression will 
be considerable. 

Clothing during Pregnancy. It is very important that 
pregnancy should not be regarded as a pathological occur- 
rence, but at the same time there are certain changes in the 
figure inevitably connected with this state which call for 
some modification in the clothing. The extent to which 
such modification is made will depend in a wide measure upon 
the taste of the individual, and to some extent on her 
capacity to buy special clothes. 

While there is no need to buy elaborate clothes of any 
kind, there is equally no need for a woman to walk about 
looking hopelessly unsightly, or even almost indecent, during 
the later months of pregnancy. Some women, afraid of 
being noticeable, hardly venture out-of-doors during these 
last weeks, and this, again, is neither necessary nor good for 
their health. Either money, or care and forethought, is 
clearly required, but with the latter a very small sum will 
cover the required expenditure. 

The undergarments will probably need little change, 
but they should be adjusted so as to admit easily of breast- 
feeding. The chemise, bodice, or blouse which does not 
open in front and cannot be adjusted is incompatible with 
breast-feeding, as the mother will certainly not undress 
herself for each occasion. During pregnancy the breasts 
enlarge, and the clothes should be widened so as to allow for 
this development. 

Corsets, if worn, must be worn loose, and must be large 
enough to admit of the necessary expansion. Special 
maternity corsets can be purchased with elastic sides, but it 
is essential that there should be no constriction of the waist 
and no downward pressure on the enlarging abdomen. 
Among multiparae considerable pain and discomfort is often 
experienced by the dragging of the abdomen. This is 
frequently relieved by wearing an abdominal belt which will 



H2 HYGIENE 

support the abdomen round its lower parts. The belt is 
probably the best form of corset for pregnancy, and serves 
also to suspend the stockings. Garters are particularly liable 
to cause trouble during pregnancy, owing to the pressure on 
the large veins of the pelvis by the growing foetus, which 
impedes the return of the blood from the legs. Any 
tendency to varicose veins is always accentuated at this 
time. 

Knickers or a petticoat are still suitable, but they should 
preferably be suspended from a bodice, to which they can 
be fastened by clips or buttons, rather than worn supported 
round the waist. In this latter case they are very liable 
to cause some constriction owing to the trouble involved 
in the continued alteration in the size of the waist. A 
really loose piece of elastic may, however, serve the purpose. 
Such weight as must be worn should be laid on the shoulders 
rather than on the hips and abdomen. Maternity dresses 
need not be unsightly. Various patterns are found ; in some 
a blouse is worn under a loose apron bodice with a full skirt 
below, the bodice and skirt forming a one-piece garment. 

The waist can be wide, and can admit of further extension, 
either by an elastic in the top of the folds, or by allowing for 
overlapping in the first instance, with subsequent alteration, 
either by tapes or some other form of fastening. 

If the clothes are made plain, and in no special fashion, 
they can either be altered later into useful garments or can 
be kept for subsequent pregnancies. 

THE PSYCHOLOGICAL ASPECT OF DRESS 

Reference has already been made in the previous chapter 
to the psychological factor in regard to clothing. It would 
be almost as great an omission to overlook this side of the 
subject as to omit the subject itself from consideration. 

Apart from the utility of dress in relation to the weather, 
it serves as an expression of personality in the most remark- 
able manner. It cannot for a moment be contended that 
the question of dress is one mainly of money. This, of 



CLOTHING FOR WOMEN 113 

course, has a direct bearing on the kind of stuff of which the 
dresses may be composed or upon the number of garments 
which any one person may possess. Although on the surface 
it may seem to be a paradox, it is in reality the person who 
has not a long purse who usually shows her personality most 
markedly in her dress. The woman to whom money is no 
object will tend to follow the fashions slavishly, of whatever 
nature they may be. The more absurd and the more expen- 
sive, the more likely she will be to adopt them. She is led 
very largely by the dressmaker or by the shops she may 
happen to patronize. It is the business of both these to 
show the fashions, and they are only carrying on their work 
in dressing their clients in the latest vogue. There are, of 
course, a number of women to whom money is not much 
hindrance, and who take much thought as to the style, variety, 
and harmony of colour of their dress. They do not neces- 
sarily follow the fashion, but display their own taste freely 
in the clothes they wear. Their personality is displayed in 
their dress, and serves as a preliminary bond of union 
between them and their fellows of similar tastes, thus ful- 
filling the proverb which says that birds of the same feather 
will flock together. 

It is, however, in those whose earnings or whose available 
means are small that the personality is most surely shown. 
The girl or woman who cannot afford more than a few simple 
blouses and a coat and skirt, or dress, must see to it that she 
selects suitable colours and materials that will look nice for 
as long as possible that is, if she is wise. If, however, she 
selects materials that will not wash, and that soon get soiled 
and greasy, she must wear them in that state, unless and until 
she can afford to have them cleaned or to buy new ones. 
Or the cut may be peculiar, and not perhaps decorative, but 
only fashionable, and the stuff may fade or be of a material 
that will lose its shape. In the one case the wearer shows a 
capacity for facing the situation, and shows that she has 
learnt to adapt herself to her circumstances. In the other 
case the wearer has not been able to overcome her natural, 
and quite harmless, but unsuitable, desire for something 
8 



H4 HYGIENE 

that looks temporarily smarter, but that must be worn long 
after it has lost any suggestion of smartness. It may be 
contended that the first individual was not interested in her 
appearance, and did not really wish to wear the more fanciful 
or smart type of garment. In some cases, no doubt, the 
objection is valid, but in many persons it is evident that this 
is not the true explanation, as is shown in other portions of 
their attire where individuality also shows itself readily. In 
the days of neckbands hardly any part of the costume was 
more characteristic than the way in which this part of the 
dress was worn whether it was tidy or untidy, in good or 
in bad taste, properly fastened or only partially holding 
together at the back, etc. But, in default of the neckband, 
there is the general way in which the garments are put on, 
and whether they are fastened carefully, whether there are 
fasteners not firmly sewn on, or whether the sleeves are of 
the right length, etc. 

The hat, the way of doing the hair, the hands, and the 
gloves all again reveal unerringly the personality of the 
wearer. The hat may be of unsuitable size or shape or 
colour. It may always have been trim and neat or may 
once have been gaudy, but the trimming be now worn and 
dirty. The hair may be tidy or untidy, quietly ordered, or 
done in some eccentric fashion which shows the innate bad 
taste, or lack of taste, of the wearer. 

The kid glove with a hole in it, or with a button off, 
denotes absence of care for detail, and compares unfavour- 
ably with the glove of humbler material which is neat and 
tidy. Boots or shoes all give indications of the personality 
of their owner. 

With an inevitability which is almost alarming at first 
thought, the individual displays his or her character in his 
person, and the clothes form a not inconsiderable item in 
the general self-revelation. Posture and manner, together 
with facial expression, complete the picture, and it rests 
with the onlooker to read it aright. It is true that many 
people are unable to form any judgment that is approxi- 
mately correct from outward appearance, because seemingly 



CLOTHING FOR WOMEN 115 

they have not learned how to read the numerous signs of 
character shown by the individual. 

There is a common belief among women that the opposite 
sex does not notice clothes. Never was there a more 
fallacious impression. It is probably true that the average 
man does not notice dress in the same way that the average 
woman may do. That is to say, he will probably after- 
wards be unable to tell whether the dress worn was of silk 
or satin, of tweed or of fine serge, but he will have noted 
the more essential matters, such as whether the clothes are 
generally suitable, whether they become the wearer, and 
whether the whole person had a neat or an untidy appear- 
ance. 

Unconsciously in many cases important appointments 
are made largely on the personality shown by the individual 
in her dress and in the general appearance produced. Nor 
is this really an unfair method. The person who appears 
at an important interview without taking the trouble to be 
tidy will probably be careless in her work after appointment. 
Or one whose dress is dreary or dowdy will be unlikely to 
have an invigorating or stimulating personality. It is, of 
course, an effort for those with small means to look always 
tidy and be suitably dressed, and it can hardly be contended 
with any degree of justification that the effort is seriously 
reduced with habit. In those who are naturally tidy and 
careful no doubt the initial effort is less, but to many it 
proves a source of real and continuous effort. The daily 
mending of small matters, the incessant care for cleanli- 
ness, help no doubt to improve the self-control and 
habits of order, and thus contribute to the building up of 
character. 

For the order of the clothing is an outward mark of 
self-respect or of its lack. The poor working-class woman 
becomes untidy in her dress in exact proportion to the 
retention or to the loss of her self-respect. She thinks that 
it is immaterial what her appearance may be, and this is 
bound up with her respect for herself. In the courses of 
instruction now arranged by the Scottish Board of Agricul- 



n6 HYGIENE 

ture the way to wear clothes forms one of the subjects of 
lecture. 

Much more might be said on this subject, but enough has 
probably been said to show the main points. Physical 
health demands attention to clothing, and mental health 
suffers from a neglect of adequate care of the appearance. 
Undue self-respect leads to vanity, but the wise woman 
will try to take the medium course. 

NOTES ON CLOTHING FOR HEALTH VISITORS 

Health visitors will do well to remember that the working- 
class mother is sensitive on the matter of the clothing of 
her children. Any comments should be carefully made, 
and improvements secured gradually. One of the best 
opportunities is presented at the centre when the child is 
undressed for weighing. The clothing can then be seen 
without any difficulty, and the mother can at the same 
time be shown the model garments which should be a part 
of the equipment of every centre, however small. Another 
good occasion is before the birth of the infant, but at this 
period the health visitor must be careful that she does not 
interfere with the work of the midwife, who may have been 
already engaged. 

The clothing of the elder children should not be forgotten. 
It can be seen at the school medical inspection, but these 
inspections do not take place at sufficiently frequent 
intervals to assist in the same way that the weighing at the 
child welfare centre will do. Moreover, the mother is not 
always present. A number of child welfare centres do not 
confine their efforts to the children under school age, but 
show models of garments for school children also. In this 
way a great deal can be done to improve the knowledge of 
the mothers as to the best kind of clothes for themselves 
and their elder children. 



CHAPTER X 

THE FEET 

THE hygiene of the feet has not hitherto formed a part of 
the instruction given to the average medical student or 
health worker, and it is doubtful whether the great mass of 
the inhabitants in this country, at any rate, realize how 
much avoidable suffering they undergo on account of the 
lack of care of their feet. 

The war has doubtless forcibly drawn attention to the 
unsatisfactory condition of the feet of many recruits, and 
also to the imperative necessity of a healthy foot for 
marching. A number of papers have been written on 
various matters connected with the feet of soldiers. One 
writer points out the deformities found in the feet of many 
Englishmen as compared with the feet of tribes who wear 
sandals and do not constrict the feet or walk on hard 
pavements. 

While all this is helpful, it seems that the feet of the 
average man are still in a better condition than those of 
the average woman, and it is with women that this book 
is primarily concerned. It must, however, be remembered 
that it is before adult age is reached that much of the damage 
is already done ; attention to children's feet is of the utmost 
importance. 

No one will dispute that there is a great number of persons 
who are hampered in their work and in their pleasures by 
their incapacity to walk or even to stand on their feet for 
any length of time. It does not appear to occur to them 
that much of this could be remedied by appropriate measures, 
and they have little or no idea as to what those measures 
should be. But prevention is at all times better than cure, 

117 



n8 HYGIENE 

and adequate regard for the hygiene of the foot will obviate 
much discomfort and assist in the general enjoyment of 
life. 

Few people probably stop to think of the work which is 
placed upon the feet. They do not realize that the whole 
weight of the body must be supported on the feet, which 
in addition are required to bear the stress and strain of 
footgear and the hardness of roads or pavements. The 
heavier the person, and the harder the road, the greater 
the strain on the feet, quite apart from the additional 
suffering caused by unsuitable coverings. Everyone knows 
among their acquaintance many who suffer from corns or 
tender feet, as well as from many other ailments connected 
with some trouble of the feet, which interferes with their 
enjoyment of life. 

The great majority of these ailments are preventible even 
with the artificial conditions of life under which most 
civilized nations live. Some remarks upon the anatomy 
of the foot will, it is hoped, aid in the appreciation of the 
hygiene of this important organ. 

The foot corresponds to the hand in its development in 
the human being, just as it does in four-footed creatures. 
During intra-uterine growth the hind limb of the foetus 
becomes rotated so that the upper surface of the foot at birth 
corresponds with the back of the hand, and the under 
surface with the palm. Both hand and foot contain a number 
of bones of which those nearest the body form, with the 
long bones of the forearm and leg, the joint of the wrist and 
of the ankle. 

Beyond this joint there are a number of smaller joints 
between the other bones, which number eight in the wrist 
and seven in the foot, which can be traced on the back of 
the hand or on the upper surface of the foot ; beyond these, 
again, come the little bones of the fingers and toes, being 
short in the foot as compared with the hand. 

The bones are joined to one another by means of liga- 
ments which stretch across the joint and help to hold the 
bones in place. Each joint is completely surrounded by 



THE FEET 119 

ligaments, within which are the white cartilage-covered 
surfaces of the joint areas. The ligaments are not tense 
enough to hold the bones in position by themselves, but 
depend also upon the other structures muscles, tendons, 
fascia, etc., which lie on the outer surface of the joint. If 
these lose their tension and yield the ligaments cannot 
hold the joint surfaces in place. 

On the upper surface of the foot, between the bones and 
the skin, there are mainly tendons with blood-vessels and 
nerves and connective tissue. There is very little muscular 
tissue, and in most persons the bones can both be seen 
and felt. No strain falls upon this surface of the foot. 

The under aspect of the foot, however, has several layers 
of muscles, with their accompanying blood-vessels and 
nerves, together with important pieces of fascia and muscle 
tendons belonging to the muscles of the leg, which pass to 
be inserted into the bones of the foot. It is these soft 
structures which make walking possible. In some cases of 
disease where there has been a great wasting of the muscles 
of the foot the patient becomes almost unable to walk on 
account of the pain from the near contact of the bones 
with the skin against the floor or hard ground. 

In the normal foot the whole of the under surface does 
not come into contact with the ground on walking. This 
is due to the fact that the bones on the inner side of the 
foot are disposed in the form of an arch. In infancy the 
whole of the foot touches the ground, but this is not due 
to any difference in the position of the bones, but to the 
presence of a pad of fat in the under surface of the foot. 
This pad of fat is gradually absorbed during childhood, 
and the inner side of the foot is thus elevated so that it 
does not touch the ground. The imprint of the normal 
foot on the ground is shown in fig. 30. 

This imprint suggests that the outer side of the foot has 
no arch, but this is not strictly accurate. The bones on 
the outer side of the foot have a slight arch, but very little 
as compared with that of the bones on the inner side. In 
addition to these longitudinal arches there is also the 



120 



HYGIENE 



transverse arch of the foot at the head of the metatarsal 
bones that is, just before the toes are separated from one 
another. Tubby points out that the term " arch " in 
relation to the foot is erroneous, since the astragalus, the 
bone upon which the bones of the leg work, is not in the 
position of a keystone at all, but acts rather as a reinforced 
girder, with the piers placed obliquely. The astragalus is 
placed much nearer the heel than the toes, and the posterior 
limb of the arch is thus much shorter than the anterior one. 

The outer arch does not usually 
jfl cause much trouble, the inner 
arch being by far the more 
important. This arch is held 
up by the tendon of one of 
the leg muscles, the tibialis 
posticus, together with the 
strong fascia of the foot which 
passes from the heel to the 
toes, and the aid of the smaller 
muscles of the foot. Of these 
the tendon of the tibialis pos- 
ticus is the most important. 
This muscle arises in the back 
of the leg, forming a tendon 
in the lower part which passes 
round the back of the ankle 
joint, turning to the inner side 

of the foot, and then dividing up into numerous parts 
which pass to nearly all the small bones of the foot. It 
thus acts as a powerful support to the various small joints. 
If this inner arch gives way a flat foot results. 

The feet serve to support the body in standing and act 
as a lever to help the body forward in walking. Each 
time a step is taken the heel is first raised from the ground 
by the action of the muscles of the leg, and the weight is 
thrown forward to the ball of the foot. The reaction of 
the ground to the weight of the body throws the body 
forward on to the toes, and the bringing of the other foot 




FIG. 30. Imprint of a normal 
foot on a flat surface. The inner 
part of the foot does not touch 
the surface. 



THE FEET 121 

forward enables the foot to be lifted from the ground. The 
arch secures that elasticity of the foot which is so necessary 
for walking. 

In the normal foot the great toe lies in a straight line with 
the inner side of the foot, or may even pass slightly towards 
the middle line of the body. Among civilized persons, 
however, in the great majority of cases the toe is forced 
outwards before many years of life have passed, giving rise 
to deformities which seriously prejudice the capacity of the 
feet to perform their work. Most of these are due to 
improper shape of the boot or the shoe. 

Everyone must be aware that the shape of the customary 
boot or shoe does not attempt to correspond to that of the 
foot of the average 
person. Neither the 
narrow-pointed boot or 
shoe, nor the long boot 
with the square toe 
bears any resemblance 
to the true shape of 
the foot inside it. A 
fashionable shoe of the 
present day is shown 

m fig- 3 1 - FIG. 31. A fashionable shoe, 1921. 

The older literature 

seems to show that about the middle of the last century the 
fashion in footwear was very similar to that of the present 
day. Extreme heels were worn, and pointed toes. It 
may be assumed that they led to trouble, since there are 
various treatises of that period which deal with the normal 
foot and with the type of boots and shoes which should be 
worn to prevent foot trouble. 

One of these writers points out that in their essential 
structure most human feet are alike, that the chief differ- 
ences lie in the length and in the breadth of the foot, but 
that the other measurements are immaterial for all practical 
purposes if the shoemaker has a knowledge of the form of the 
foot. In the average shoe of the present day the foot is 





F IG> 32. X-ray photograph of a foot in a stocking. 
122 














FIG' 33. X-ray photograph of the same foot as in previous figure, in 
a soft, pointed shoe. The toes are squeezed together and the bones 
displaced as compared with their position in fig. 32. 

123 



124 HYGIENE 

elongated towards the toes, from pressure arising through 
lack of breadth. The toes are crushed into a shape which 
is quite unnatural. This is shown in the accompanying 
figs. 32 and 33 taken by X-rays, which show the position of 
the same foot with and without the shoe, which was of 
stuff, and soft. Corns are liable to form at all the points 
of pressure and friction, giving rise to pain and discomfort 
in walking. Actual deformities also arise requiring in many 
cases surgical interference for their correction. 

The great toe is gradually pressed over the toe next to it, 
so that the joint of the great toe is pressed towards the 
middle line and is directly exposed to the pressure of the 
boot or shoe. The pressure and friction produce irritation 
and frequently lead to the development of the well-known 
bunion. This gives rise to . a great deal of pain and dis- 
comfort, rendering walking a trial only to be undertaken 
when absolutely necessary, or necessitating the wearing of 
special boots, so made as to allow of ample space for the 
bunion. Further, the pressure of the great toe on the next 
toe leads to trouble. There is some difference of opinion 
as to the relative lengths of the great toe and the next one, 
but this is of minor importance for the question in hand. 

The second toe, being pressed upon from above, tends 
to flatten at the extremity and to become hyper- ex tended 
that is to say, the toe is contracted so that it projects on the 
back of the foot, and the tendon on the under surface 
shortens in adaptation. Other toes may share the same 
fate in bad cases. 

This condition of the toes is known as " hammer toe," 
and causes pain from the pressure of the boot on the promi- 
nent part of the toe, on which in addition a corn very fre- 
quently forms as a result of the pressure. Hammer toe is, 
however, by no means the only trouble produced by wearing 
improper boots or shoes. Nor does it always go so far as to 
produce severe pain, although some deflection outward of the 
great toe is extremely common. The crushing together of the 
foot gradually destroys the transverse arch, giving rise to 
pain which in some cases may be severe. Morton's disease, 



THE FEET 125 

where the pain is localized in the fourth metatarsal joint, 
may be caused by tight footwear. In this state the bones 
take up a false position which can often only be remedied 
by operation. 

In most boots or shoes narrow toes are associated with 
high heels. These last are fully as harmful as the tight 
boot and their ill effects are not perhaps entirely to be 
distinguished from those caused by narrow toes. 

Various ill effects arise from these high heels. In the 
first place, the centre of gravity of the body is thrown for- 
ward. The human organism is not as yet sufficiently adapted 
to the upright position to be able to stand upright without 
any tension on the muscles. In order to remain steady 
muscles must be in action to some extent. No one 
wishes to stand quite still for long. A change of posture 
is made unconsciously in order to relieve the muscles which 
are fatigued. By a change of the position of the centre 
of gravity an additional strain is thrown on the muscles 
concerned in order to maintain equilibrium. 

Each time the foot is raised in walking it undergoes some 
degree of shortening. The heel is raised by the action 
of the leg muscles, which contract, and, in doing so, increase 
the arch of the foot slightly. Thus, the foot, when the heel 
is raised, is a little shorter than when it is on the ground. 
With a high heel the foot is continually contracted and the 
muscles have more work thrown upon them. They become, 
therefore, much more quickly fatigued, and the wearer of 
high heels is unwilling to take much exercise owing to the 
fatigue involved. Gradually the muscles become perman- 
ently fatigued and lose their tone, with the result that the 
inner arch of the foot is no longer maintained in its proper 
position, but sags, owing to the inability of the muscles 
already referred to to support the bones. This sagging 
allows of a slight displacement of the bones and gives rise 
to pain of varying degrees of intensity. The person has, 
in fact, become flat-footed with its accompanying loss of 
elasticity of movement and ready fatigue. 

Tubby states that cases of flat-foot form two-fifths of all 



126 HYGIENE 

orthopaedic cases, and that among these females are found 
in the proportion of 67 to 42 in the case of men. 

Flat-foot may also be caused by excessive standing, 
especially if the body is heavy or the tone of the muscles 
poor. Many people are obliged by their work to stand when 
they have already become fatigued, and when the strain on 
the leg muscles is therefore great. 

Walking with the toes turned out throws more strain on 
the arch and tends to produce flat foot. Children should not 
be allowed to turn out their toes unduly. It is only a habit, 
which can be eradicated in the same way as other habits. 

For children and girls who are growing rapidly boots are 
preferable to shoes. The upper part of the boot gives an 
appreciable degree of support to the ankle and to the foot. 
Hence, there is less tendency to tread over on one side or 
the other of the foot. 

The low heel is intended to give slight support to the foot 
and to aid in raising the heel in walking, also to break the 
jar of the contact of the heel with the ground, which 
jar is transmitted to the body although it is reduced by 
the mobility of the joints. -The exaggerated heel causes 
fatigue and renders its wearer comparatively incapable of 
movement. 

The transverse arch of the foot is also injuriously affected 
by high heels. The weight of the body is now thrown 
forward towards the toes, and must be received by the ball 
of the foot. The transverse arch lies just above the ball 
of the foot, and it is this structure which in effect bears the 
strain on the ball. Hence it tends to give way and leads to 
the results already mentioned as resulting from tight boots. 
How unnatural high heels are can be seen readily at the 
present day. There are numbers of women who are clearly 
but poorly balanced on their heels, and must walk carefully 
to maintain their equilibrium. Admiration must be aroused 
by the amazing power of the human muscles to adapt 
themselves at all to the extraordinary position the body is 
made to adopt when high heels are worn. More especially 
is this so since in order, presumably, to reduce the weight 



THE FEET 127 

the heels are narrowed near the ground so that the individual 
is required to walk upon a very small area of support. 

These points were already noted in a book written in 1861 
by a practical shoemaker who deals with the evil of improper 
boots and shoes. He states that it was found by experiment 
that, if the heel was brought far forward, standing was 
impossible, as equilibrium could not be maintained. If it 
was brought backwards it " caused insupportable pain in the 
toes" (Dowie, The Human Foot and its Covering, 1861). 
This shrewd observer makes comments which seem to apply 
at the present day and are worth quoting. He says : " The 
practical study of pedestrian exercise, with a view to the 
physical well-being of the foot, is an interesting one to all 
who have any regard for their general health. It involves 
many important considerations for a thinking public : for, 
when the foot is neglected in infancy and youth the after period 
of life experiences a sad amount of suffering from persons 
being unable to take the necessary amount of exercise that 
their health requires. How many are there in this great metro- 
polis who contrive, by every means in their power, to avoid 
walking just because of their feet their shoe pinching them 
somewhere or other ? During the business part of the day 
every short cut possible is taken to avoid that kind of exer- 
cise which nature designed for the physical well-being of their 
bodies ; and when they emerge from the bustle and smoke 
of the city to the pure air of the suburbs, instead of enter- 
taining the thought of a health-giving family walk, the pinch- 
ing shoe is immediately pulled off, and the aching, imprisoned 
feet flung upon the sofa in slippers in search of relief, while 
the mind but too often finds consolation in attributing the 
injuries experienced to everything else but the real cause." 
Comment on this passage appears unnecessary. 

Figures 34 and 35 show very well the position of the 
foot with a high heel as opposed to the normal position. 

The angle made by the bones of the foot with those of the 
toes in fig. 34 should be compared with the corresponding 
one in fig. 35. Also the position of the os calcis (the bone 
which projects backwards, forming the heel) in the two 



128 



HYGIENE 



plates. The high heel throws the bone flatter, giving a 
less angle with the ground and causing the front lower part 
of the bone to press on the soft structures beneath. 

Consideration must also be given to the general care of 
the foot apart from the question of the footwear. In warm 
weather or with exercise the feet get hot and moist. Ventila- 
tion is required to allow of the dispersal of the heat, and the 
moisture requires absorption prior to its gradual evaporation. 




FIG. 34. X-ray photograph of a normal foot, standing on a flat surface. 
The weight of the body is passed to the ground through the heel and the 
ball of the foot. The bone of the heel (os calcis) makes an angle with the 
ground and with the toes. 

Shoes doubtless secure better ventilation of the foot, and 
stockings should be able to absorb the moisture. A thin 
woollen stocking is best for this purpose. A thread stocking 
does not absorb the moisture so readily and tends to become 
stiff and to rub the feet. Patent leather or rubber shoes 
prevent ventilation and are commonly said to " draw " the 
foot, making it feel hot and tender. Absence of ventilation 
and of the absorption of moisture causes the foot to become hot 



THE FEET 



129 



and swollen. A cramping shoe or boot hampers the circula- 
tion in the foot, thus curtailing the proper supply of oxygen 
to the muscles of the part. 

Where the feet have a great tendency to be moist some 
relief can be afforded by shaking a little boracic powder into 




FIG. 35. X-ray photograph of the same foot as in fig. 34, but in a 
high-heeled shoe. The os calcis is now nearly parallel with the ground, 
the long bones of the foot form a sharp angle with the toes and the weight 
of the body is differently distributed, as compared with the position in 
fig. 34. Less weight will be borne by the heel, and more by the joint and 
ligament of the foot. 

the foot of the stocking each morning. If too much is put in 
it will tend to become hard on drying and will fret the foot. 
Those who suffer from tender feet should take care that they 
are kept scrupulously clean. The feet should be washed 
9 



130 HYGIENE 

night and morning, soap being used on at least one of these 
occasions. Soaking the feet in water for 5 or 10 minutes, 
either with or without the addition of any chemical such as 
boracic acid or alum, gives considerable relief. The water 
may be warm or fairly hot. Cold water causes a reaction, 
making the feet feel hotter afterwards. Epithelial cells 
which have been cast off tend to accumulate between the 
toes and the bacteria which are present on the feet act upon 
them, producing a disagreeable odour. This odour can be 
obviated or removed by strict attention to cleanliness and 
careful washing in between the toes. 

In sortie Ckses of discomfort, especially when the feet are 
fatigued after active exercise, much relief can be obtained 
by smearing them gently with a little grease such as vaseline. 
Stockings should be washed out every few days. 

Corns are an overgrowth of epithelium, and cause pain 
by the pressure of the hardened mass on the soft tissues 
below. Many remedies are advertised, but it does not appear 
that there is any sovereign cure for them. Left alone, they 
may cause a high degree of debilitation. Many poor women 
are almost unable to walk from the pain caused by these 
large excrescences on various parts of their feet. The best 
remedy is to pare the corns as often as may be necessary 
with a sharp knife, being careful not to cause bleeding. 
This may lead to septic trouble, or at least to pain and 
tenderness at the spot for some days. This is especially 
the case in old people whose tissues may be in a state of low 
resistance. Or the epithelial overgrowth may be removed 
by snipping carefully round and under the corn with a 
pair of sharp-pointed scissors. 

The whole operation is more easily performed if the feet 
have been previously soaked in hot water to soften the corns. 
Where the tenderness is great, as is sometimes the case in 
bad corns which have been neglected, a bread poultice over- 
night may secure sufficient softening of the corn to enable 
it to be dealt with less painfully. Those who fail to care 
for their feet will regret it sooner or later. Unfortunately, 
with children, the damage from too short boots or shoes is 



THE FEET 131 

often very much against their own wish, and due to the fact 
that the boots have become too small but are " too good '" 
to be cast aside. It is most important that children should 
be allowed boots giving room for the foot to grow. In 
summer-time sandals have much to recommend them, but 
in winter the cold is usually too great for them to be worn 
without risk of a chill. Socks with a special place for the 
great toe may assist in wearing sandals in cold weather. 
These, however, are a good deal of trouble to knit as they 
cannot be purchased in the majority of shops, but must be 
specially made. Stockings which are too small in any 
direction will also act prejudicially on the feet. The 
constant pressure is greater than might perhaps be supposed. 
It is almost certain that the stocking takes its share in the 
pressing outward of the great toe, which has already been 
dealt with earlier. 

The value of exercise in the maintenance of health cannot 
be disputed, but exercise requires the use of the feet. Those 
who wish to retain their health should take care of their 
feet. It is extraordinary how little attention many people 
bestow upon these valuable and important parts of their 
body. 

No attempt has been made to discuss the form of shoe or 
boot which should be worn. Special forms of sole or of 
upper part are not within the means of the majority of 
people. Moreover, if care be taken it is usually possible to 
purchase boots or shoes which have low heels or which can 
have the heels adjusted, and whose toes are broad enough 
to avoid constriction of the foot. It is, of course, hard on 
the individual woman to be obliged to pay for lowering the 
heels, but it is the outcome of vanity of the rest of their sex, 
and it is unlikely that the boot-makers will change the form 
until there is more demand for a reasonable shoe than there 
is at present. High heels and rather pointed toes are 
usually smart in appearance, but if carried to extreme they 
look silly and unsightly. 



CHAPTER XI 

EXERCISE 

IT is a fundamental law of biological science that nothing 
remains stationary, everything that lives must be either 
growing or must be passing towards decay. In man and 
animals the maintenance of life involves the use of the 
systems of the body. These systems are interdependent, 
and the work of one affects the others. The muscular system 
is the one we are most accustomed to consider in connec- 
tion with use, and the term "exercise" commonly denotes 
the use of the muscles. Most people realize that there is a 
connection between muscular exercise and the proper per- 
formance of their functions by the internal organs. They 
know that children require exercise, because it helps to 
develop their muscles, and to make the body grow, and that 
exercise " does one good." The mechanism involved and 
the complex effects to which it gives rise, together with the 
results which may follow too little or too much use of the 
muscles, are somewhat outside the sphere of common know- 
ledge. It cannot be said that our knowledge is at all satis- 
factory upon many of these points, but an attempt will be 
made in this chapter to set out as far as possible the ele- 
mentary basis of the chief physiological processes and their 
application to the maintenance of health. 

Although there are numerous gaps in our physiological 
knowledge, it is possible to build up a reasonably complete 
picture of the mechanism and effect of exercise on the 
various systems of the body. So soon, however, as we come 
to the application of these principles to daily life the border- 
line of the realm of psychology is reached, and the influence 
-of the mind complicates the investigations. Up to the 
present this has tended rather to increase the difficulties. 

132 



EXERCISE 133 

Doubtless as investigations proceed it will be possible to 
gauge more accurately the effects which are due to the 
mind in contradistinction to the body. 

All muscular movements made by an individual are 
caused by impulses sent along the nerves to the muscles. 
These impulses, which are of the nature of an electric 
stimulus, produce a contraction of the muscle. No move- 
ment in ordinary life is caused by a single muscle acting 
alone. Each motion involves one or more groups of muscles, 
each one of which must receive the stimulus through its 
own nerve. It is beyond the scope of this work to consider 
how far all impulses sent along the motor nerves to the 
muscles arise as a result of sensory impressions, or how far 
the higher faculties may be concerned. The points of weak- 
ness in the system appears to be at the junction of the 
nerve and the muscle substance and at the part where the 
impulse passes from one to another of the neurones, those 
numerous component parts of the central nervous system. 
Muscular tissue will continue to respond to stimulation 
after the point of junction of the nerve and muscle has 
become incapable throiigh fatigue of transmitting the 
impulse. 

Walking is a complicated process when first attempted, 
but later, with continual practice, the adjustments involved 
have become so familiar that the movements are performed 
automatically and without mental effort. 

Every time a muscle contracts it does work. Work 
requires the expenditure of energy. The muscle cells 
contain reserve stores of energy, chiefly in the form of gly- 
cogen, but there are also other substances which may 
perhaps be concerned in severe exercise. When the 
muscle does work some of the glycogen is broken down into 
simpler substances (metabolites) with the liberation of 
heat and the formation of carbonic acid (CO 2 ) and water 
(H 2 O). In order to secure the complete breakdown of this 
substance into carbon dioxide and water, a supply of oxygen 
is necessary that is to say, the blood must bring enough 
oxygen to the muscles for this purpose. If the exercise 



134 HYGIENE 

is prolonged the blood-flow does not after a time usually 
bring up a large enough supply, and as a result certain bodies 
are found, which are due to a partial breakdown of the 
glycogen instead of a complete oxidation. The most 
notable of these is lactic acid, which is ordinarily transformed 
into the simpler bodies CO 2 and H 2 O, but requires oxygen 
for this, purpose ; other substances are also found, but in 
such small amount that they need not be considered here. 
The lactic acid is partly carried away by the blood-stream 
and exercises an effect on the body. It is not as yet definitely 
established whether the effect is primarily on the heart 
itself, which shares in the general deficiency of oxygen, or 
due to a specific action on the central nervous system, or to 
an insufficient oxygen supply to this latter. 

The final result, however, is the onset of fatigue of the 
neuro-muscular apparatus, although this is by no means 
synonymous with the feeling of fatigue experienced by the 
individual during and after exercise. There is little, if any, 
direct connection between the fatigue of the muscle and the 
fatigue sensation in the person concerned. After the 
cessation of exercise the oxidation of the lactic acid proceeds 
gradually to completion. 

The formation of lactic acid and the accumulation of other 
metabolites will eventually clog the muscle and prevent its 
effective working. It is probable that this largely accounts 
for the feeling of stiffness experienced after prolonged 
exercise by those whose muscles are not in training. 

Many experiments have been carried out in order to 
ascertain whether the fat which is stored up in muscular 
tissue is utilized in exercise, and whether there is a destruc- 
tion of the muscular tissue itself. It seems that neither 
of these occur to an appreciable extent so long, at any rate, 
as there is any store of carbohydrate in the body; but 
how far other substances can be used after the depletion of 
the store of carbohydrate, or owing to a shortage in this 
substance from special dietaries, has not been precisely 
determined. 

Other processes are brought into play on the commence- 



EXERCISE 135 

ment of exercise. Certain of the metabolites tend to produce 
a dilatation of the arteries in the muscles, thus aiding an 
increased flow of blood. At the same time the vessels of the 
splanchnic area are constricted, thus further increasing the 
amount of blood flowing to the other parts of the body. The 
dilatation of the vessels in the muscles is probably aided by 
the heat produced by the contraction of the muscles and 
subsequent liberation of energy. Then, again, the contraction 
of the muscles produces mechanical pressure on the veins, and 
forces the blood along them, back to the heart at an increased 
rate. A series of experiments has been carried out to 
ascertain the extent to which the blood-flow through the 
muscles is increased during their activity. Clearly the 
increase must depend upon the intensity of the effort, but 
roughly it would seem that the blood-flow may be increased 
from three to nine times the amount flowing at rest, the 
exact amount depending upon the condition of the muscles 
and the work required. 

The increased venous flow causes the heart to fill more 
rapidly during diastole, which produces an increased pressure 
in the heart, and increases the amount of blood sent out by 
this organ. The heart, in fact, is called upon to do more 
work, a greater quantity of blood being pumped by it into 
the circulation. The rate of the heart-beat increases 
simultaneously, and the general blood-pressure rises. 

The vessels of the skin also dilate, and the blood-flow 
through them is increased. This produces a heightened 
activity of the sweat-glands, and a loss of water from the 
blood. The metabolites in the muscles also retain fluid in 
the muscles themselves, so that the circulating blood tends 
to become less watery. A rise of body temperature occurs 
owing to the production of heat by the contraction of the 
muscles, some part of which, however, is got rid of by the 
evaporation of the secretion of the sweat-glands. 

The effects of exercise are therefore far-reaching, and 
include a rise in blood-pressure, increased rate of flow of 
blood in the vessels, increased work of the heart, and in- 
creased pulse-rate, together with greater activity of the 



136 HYGIENE 

sweat-glands, and greater production of heat. The cardiac 
and circulatory changes carry with them the necessity for 
an increased rate of circulation through the lungs, and for 
increased ventilation that is, for increased intake of oxygen 
and elimination of carbonic acid. Respiration becomes 
deeper and more rapid with exercise, the extent of the 
change depending upon the severity of the exercise. 

The deep and rather rapid breathing with which every- 
one is familiar after exertion is the response of the body to 
the increased need for oxygen. If the body is working 
efficiently and the exertion is not excessive, no distress is 
experienced. If, however, more work is laid upon the body 
than it is in a condition to bear without strain, breathing 
becomes laboured with the effort of the central nervous 
system to take in more oxygen and to get rid of the rising 
amount of carbon dioxide. It must not be forgotten that 
the heart itself is working harder, and that it shares both 
in the need for oxygen to carry on its work, and in the strain 
of working in the face of an insufficient supply. Co- 
ordination between the various systems concerned is required 
in muscular exercise. The more the individual takes exercise 
of any one or more types, the better does this co-ordination 
become, and the less strain does the work throw on the 
body. The body becomes trained to greater effort, and can 
accomplish many times the work with equal or even less 
effort. 

The work done must not be increased too rapidly, but 
must be added to gradually each day. Violent demands 
made upon systems not in a state of efficiency are liable to 
lead to a breakdown in the machine, which may not be 
easy to remedy. Difficulty of this kind is frequently caused 
during holiday periods. Persons who have been taking 
little or no active exercise for weeks, or even months, find 
themselves in a country place or at the seaside with time 
on their hands. Impelled perhaps by a beautiful day, they 
take prolonged exercise, and return worn out. Nor does 
this fatigue pass off at once ; if the exertion has been very 
severe it may have effects which will seriously interfere with 



EXERCISE 137 

the enjoyment of the remainder of the holiday. The 
danger is even greater where the change is being taken in 
a mountainous district. In this case the extra work of 
going uphill is added, and the body requires to adapt 
itself to high altitudes, where the oxygen tension of the 
atmosphere is reduced. Cardiac dilatation may result from 
the strain, which will be much more difficult to get rid of 
than it has been to produce. 

Some degree of exercise is necessary for the maintenance 
of health. This is especially the case with children and 
young people. It aids in the development of the body, 
and should form a definite part of life. The feeling of 
movement is pleasurable, as is conclusively shown by the 
spontaneous movements of joy shown by children in their 
early years before custom and the exigencies of civilized 
life have curtailed the free expression of feeling. The 
healthy child commonly wants to be doing something. 
While it may be necessary to control the direction of the 
activity, and the child should be taught some measure of 
restraint, the desire for activity should not be curtailed. 
The child will cease its activity when fatigue supervenes. 
Some are lazy, and for these, efforts are required to procure 
the necessary amount of exercise for health. The active 
child should not be pressed to take undue exercise. The 
body is still growing, and requires time and opportunity for 
this process as well as for the repair of the daily wear and 
tear. The tissues are delicate and more susceptible to 
injury than those of older persons. Undue fatigue may 
prevent growth, especially if the strain is continued. The 
lack of development and the unsatisfactory health of the 
children who in days gone by were allowed to work in 
the factories supplied abundant evidence on this point, 
without entering into a discussion as to the conditions of 
housing and feeding under which they lived. 

It is not always easy to determine where the border-line 
of safety lies. Roughly, however, a child should recover 
from its fatigue during the night's sleep. If too tired to 
sleep well, or if the fatigue persists on the following day, it 



138 HYGIENE 

is almost certain that the exertion has been excessive. Or 
again, if exhaustion is noted on the cessation of the exertion, 
the exercise has probably been too severe. The child 
ordinarily stops short before exhaustion has begun, but 
there are some children whose energy, or desire to complete 
some given work or game, will carry them over the border- 
line. The child should be hungry after exercise ; if it 
refuses to eat it is probably over-tired. Food should not 
be pressed in such a case, but the condition should not be 
allowed to recur. The body should be warm after exercise 
and the child should feel warm. If it complains of chilli- 
ness, or shows definite pallor, it will almost certainly have 
been over-exerting itself. 

As 'the child grows older the capacity of the body for 
exercise should increase, and does so increase in the healthy 
child. There is no hard-and-fast rule that can be laid 
down. At the age of about seven or eight the child already 
has a desire to emulate the acts of its parents or its elder 
brothers or sisters. This desire may easily lead to the 
putting forth of effort which it is really beyond the capacity 
of the body to perform without undue exertion. Again, 
the amount of work which can be performed varies in 
different children. Some children are growing very rapidly 
and require more rest than others. Others show a muscular 
development which admits of greater effort than is usual 
in children of that age. 

Their capacity for taking food and the nature of the 
food offered them will all make a difference in their capacity 
for muscular exertion. Those who are responsible for the 
health of children, whether their own or those of other 
people, will need to consider the children individually and 
not in classes according to their age, or to their intellectual 
progress. As adult age is reached the boy or girl is supposed 
to have enough experience of life to be able to decide to a 
great extent the degree of exercise that is good for him- or 
her-self. Sometimes the knowledge may be possessed, but 
does not happen to agree with inclination, and harm may be 
done, which cannot be remedied in after-life. 



EXERCISE 139 

So long as the fatigue induced is repaired by a night's 
rest it is unlikely that serious damage is being done, even 
although the fatigue may have been well marked after the 
exertion. Young people have a great power of recupera- 
tion, and some degree of fatigue will not hurt them. If, 
however, the fatigue is frequently pressed to an extent that 
prevents recuperation during the night the danger-line 
may easily be overpassed and permanent damage be done 
to one or other organ of the body. 

Walking is undoubtedly the form of exercise which 
produces the most general use of all the muscles without 
laying excessive strain on certain groups, unless the exercise 
is continually uphill or downhill. If this exercise can be 
taken freely without reference to mental work or to other 
duties, and if the person in question lives in a beautiful 
part of the country, walking will be a sheer delight, especially 
to those members of the community who are perhaps no 
longer in the flush of youth, and who take active interest 
in nature study. A walk taken purely for the sake of 
exercise along dreary roads whose every stone is known 
and where any interest is unlikely to occur is not felt to 
be a particularly desirable form of exercise by young 
people. Games are better, since they provide a stimulus 
to exercise and give mental enjoyment at the same time. 
The precise means whereby the mind affects the body are 
not known, but there can be no doubt at all that joyousness 
is good for the bodily health, while depressing mental con- 
ditions react unfavourably upon it. Whenever possible 
games should be played out-of-doors. It has already been 
shown that the body requires increase of oxygen when 
exercise is taken, and this increase is more easily provided 
in the open air than in a room, however good the ventila- 
tion may be. 

Physical culture, which is now so widely practised in 
schools of all kinds throughout the country, is a good move, 
and valuable in developing the muscles and improving the 
circulation. It also trains the muscles to act in co-ordina- 
tion and promotes intelligence in the pupils. It can hardly 



140 HYGIENE 

be regarded as replacing the free exercise in the open air, 
which should be obtained whenever possible. The rambles 
for nature study now often arranged for pupils provide 
exercise for the body and interest for the mind, and are 
greatly to be encouraged. 

Games of all kinds are of great value, but may easily 
be regarded as of more importance than is really the case, 
from the point of view of mere physical development. The 
well-known games which are played by the youth of this 
country, such as cricket, football, hockey, and tennis, have 
the double advantage of providing a training for the senses 
as well as for the muscles. Properly carried out, they 
should teach dexterity and co-ordination of the groups of 
muscles. Again, they develop a quick eye, a steady hand, 
and should create that feeling of fair play and of team work 
which are beyond the sphere of exercise and belong to that 
of mental development. Over-exertion in these is, however, 
not uncommon both among boys and girls, and everyone 
is by no means capable of the same amount of effort. 
Rowing and running in university and other contests demand 
so much effort from the heart that this organ may become 
disordered and never completely recover. 

Valuable as games are in the life of a nation, and much 
as they have admittedly done to train the young men of 
the country both physically and mentally, one is sometimes 
tempted to wonder whether we may not have a somewhat 
exaggerated idea of their value in relation to other matters 
of daily life. 

The quick eye, the sure aim, and the other acquirements 
connected with games, all develop one specialized set of 
actions of use primarily in those particular games, although 
they may also have some value in other directions. This 
specialization takes place just at the time of life when the 
mind is receptive and when fresh avenues of thought should 
be opened out, and when the mind should be directed on 
to broad lines of mental outlook, not of course neglecting 
the physical side. 

Those who, having reached the age at which they must 



EXERCISE 141 

take up their life's work, have selected a line which involves 
sedentary work should take care that they make time and 
opportunity for some degree of physical exercise which will 
serve to maintain the organs in an efficient state. 

During the life-time of the present generation the young 
women of the country have secured great advantages in the 
matter of games. These are most beneficial, but there are 
certain reservations which must be made. In the first 
place, the most strenuous games such as cricket and football, 
are not suitable for the average young woman. It is idle 
to pretend that the average woman is as strong physically 
as the average man, although there are certainly individual 
women who may be stronger physically than certain men. 
The onset of puberty is often a period when, without 
showing signs of actual disturbance, the tone of the body is 
not good. Many girls are anaemic, and the muscles flabby, 
with a good deal of superfluous fat. This is by no means 
necessarily due to the amount or nature of the food eaten, 
but may be attributable to the general state of the organism. 
Over-fatigue should be avoided in such girls until the body 
has reached a more stable condition, when the health fre- 
quently improves and more active exercise can be under- 
taken with impunity. 

There is also the question of exercise at the monthly 
periods. So far as possible these should be regarded as 
physiological and not pathological. Unfortunately, how- 
ever, the artificial conditions of civilized life tend to induce 
a good deal of minor disturbance at these times. It is 
difficult to make any definite statement as to the amount 
of exercise which may be safely taken. There are some 
people who experience no adverse feelings or effects during 
menstruation, and it may be that for these there is no need 
to curtail exercise even during the period itself. Others, 
again, and these form probably the more numerous class, 
while not indisposed, do not feel as well as at other times. 
In these cases, exercise, while it need not cease, should not 
exceed that which can be taken without incurring any 
special discomfort. 



142 HYGIENE 

Very often the conditions improve greatly as the growth 
of the body ceases and the strain caused by the development 
of the sex functions passes off. It should be borne in mind 
that there is congestion of the pelvic organs during men- 
struation, and that while gentle exercise may relieve it by 
causing an increased flow of blood to the vessels of the 
skin, undue effort is likely to react unfavourably on the 
heart and circulatory system generally and to cause dis- 
comfort rather than relief. The fact that rest will often 
suffice to relieve the discomfort experienced seems to 
indicate that the body is in a state of strain which should 
not be increased by too active exercise. Undue strain 
repeated at each monthly period may give rise to unhealthy 
conditions of the uterus which may affect the whole life of 
the individual. 

On the other hand, there is no need for a woman who 

suffers from a slight discomfort to imagine that she must 

necessarily remain indoors and perhaps fail to attend to 

her daily work. Unless this last should be heavier than is 

usually the case with women it will be much better for her 

to carry on as usual in spite of slight discomfort. Common 

sense and self-control must be brought to bear in deciding 

what amount of exercise may safely be undertaken by the 

young woman both during the periods and between them. 

A very strenuous life in between the periods may give rise 

to pain and distress at those times. Relief may be obtained 

by reducing the total amount of effort made on ordinary 

days. While there are no figures on the subject, there 

seems reason to believe that the very athletic woman of 

upright and tireless gait is by no means the most free from 

the minor ailments of sex or from difficulty in child-bearing. 

Active occupation is good for women, and housework is 

not to be despised in this connection. While it should not 

be regarded as the only form of exercise necessary for the 

housewife, it provides a good deal of use for the muscles, 

which are kept fairly efficient. If the work were more 

regulated, as it easily could be, the exercise might be more 

beneficial. Too frequently, however, there is little organiza- 



EXERCISE 143 

tion introduced, and the woman potters around for long 
periods, getting more bored than tired, and becoming over- 
powered by that sense of fatigue which, as already mentioned, 
has no definite relationship to pure muscular fatigue. If 
housework is done with open windows whenever possible 
so as to secure abundant fresh air and oxygen, and at stated 
times, and is briskly carried out, it is a great deal better 
than the idle life led by some women, or than the strenuous 
life of a factory or workshop. 

It is unnecessary to enter further into the various forms 
of exercise which are prevalent in this country. Some 
are clearly more beneficial than others, but it is hoped that 
enough has been said to show the general principles which 
should be observed, and to demonstrate the importance 
of using common sense in relation to exercise. 

It is necessary to consider more closely the phenomenon 
of fatigue, both in relation to muscular exercise and to 
brain work. 



CHAPTER XII 

FATIGUE 

MENTAL interest or excitement obscures the feeling of 
fatigue. For example, a runner or athlete engaged in a 
contest will perhaps quite early in the race experience a 
feeling of physical fatigue. But he does not stop for this 
reason. His desire to reach the goal before others, or to 
assist his side in winning, carries him over this period. 
Runners and rowing men experience what is known as second 
wind; that is to say, after a comparatively short period of 
muscular activity, the respiration, which had been ham- 
pered by the excessive exertion, together with the heart, 
takes on a fresh start at a higher level of activity. The 
mechanism of this adjustment is complex, is not as yet 
fully understood, and it need not be considered here. The 
degree to which the organism will respond to excessive 
exertion depends in great measure upon the condition of the 
muscles and of the heart. In the final contest, where the 
mental stimulus is strong, the man will continue to the end, 
impelled thereto by psychological reasons. After the 
contest is ended, the fatigue will be appreciated. This, 
although possibly affecting his progress in the latter part of 
the contest, has not prevented him from continuing the 
exertion long after he would have stopped from fatigue 
had there been no contest. 

Great physical fatigue may prevent the mind from working, 
and mental weariness may bring about a feeling of fatigue. 
The first may be explained as being due to fatigue of the 
heart and circulatory system, with consequent fall in blood- 
pressure and decrease in the rate of blood-flow in the cerebral 
arteries. In the latter case the feeling is probably not 

i 44 



FATIGUE 145 

physical at all, but is more likely to be due to lack of physical 
exercise. Prolonged brain work, involving a stationary 
condition, provides practically no muscular activity, and 
leaves the physical processes which produce heat at a low 
ebb. In most people a feeling of chilliness occurs after 
continued brain work, and is due largely to the absence of 
exercise of the muscles. Probably, also, the blood-pressure 
falls slightly, affecting the blood-flow through the brain. If 
considerable excitement is involved, the blood- pressure will 
be maintained, it being well known that cerebral excitement 
causes a rise of blood-pressure. 

That feeling of weariness so well known to most people 

engaged in sedentary work is frequently relieved by physical 

exercise, and this should be the case if the work has not been 

too excessive for the individual concerned. Monotony in 

the work, or lack of interest, will produce a feeling of weariness 

at a much earlier stage than is the case if the work arouses 

interest. The amount of either mental or physical work 

which can be undertaken without causing fatigue differs 

in the individual, and also with the degree to which he is 

accustomed to the work. The rate at which work can be 

done, and the effort required to do it, are both greatly 

modified by practice Everyone knows how wearied one 

feels at the end of the first day at a new job, which, after a 

little experience, can be performed without any fatigue at 

all ; or the ease with which the same mental work can be 

done which as a child was found to be of great difficulty. In 

order to secure the increased facility it has been necessary to 

exercise the mind or the body, calling upon it each day to 

perform rather more than it did the day before. This can 

clearly only be carried up to a certain point, which will differ 

for different people, and will depend upon the nature of the 

work required. Due regard must be had to the special 

aptitudes or disabilities of the individual, but extraordinary 

results can be achieved by perseverance and proper training. 

The following table shows the pulse-rate in two subjects 

doing approximately the same work, where one was a trained 

athlete and the other untrained. The effects are well 

10 



146 



HYGIENE 



marked, and show the relatively decreased effect of the 
exercise on the trained man, also the more rapid fall of the 
rate in the trained man. 

HEALTHY MEN. PULSE-RATE BEFORE AND AFTER EXERCISE Q-MILE 
RUN) . (PEMBREY AND COOK.) l 





Rest. 


Just after 
exercise. 


Counted during 
first minute. 


Counted in first four successive 
periods of 15 seconds. 


i. 


2. 


3- 


4- 


Trained . 
Untrained 


76 
80 


l5o 
1 80 


135 
165 


40 
45 


35 
4i 


3i 
40 


29 
39 



THE MEASUREMENT OF FATIGUE 

Before it is possible to enter into a discussion on the 
question of fatigue, it is necessary to adopt some form of 
standard which can be used to demonstrate and, if possible, 
measure the degree of fatigue which is produced. This is 
in fact a most difficult matter, since many factors enter into 
the question, some of which are almost impossible to measure 
satisfactorily. Muscular fatigue is so bound up with 
mental weariness that it is impossible to obtain a clear 
picture of the effects of muscular fatigue alone. Again, it 
is not possible to measure the fatigue of the whole body; 
nor is it practically possible to measure only the fatigue of 
one muscle, since there is no one muscle in the body which 
works entirely independently of others. As it is known that 
the nervous system is the primary seat of fatigue, it is not 
difficult to see that nervous exhaustion will affect the 
amount of work the muscles are able to perform without 
fatigue. 

The first method employed to estimate the condition of 
the muscles, and their capacity for work, was introduced by 
Mosso, who used an apparatus known as the ergograph. 
This is an apparatus for recording the amount of work done. 
Fig. 36 shows the method of working of the apparatus. 
The arm is held quiet in the apparatus, and the finger lifts 

1 Quoted by Bainbridge, Physiology of Muse. Exercise, p. 193. 



FATIGUE 147 

the weight hanging over the table. In the original work 
the weight used was roughly the maximum which the 
experimenter could raise. Later experimenters showed' that 
after fatigue had supervened for that particular weight, 
much work could still be done by the same group of muscles 
if the weight were slightly reduced. In addition to the 
portions shown in the figure, arrangements are made for the 
extent to which the weight is lifted with each contraction 




FIG. 36. Mosso's ergograph. 

of the ringer, to be shown on a smoked surface, thus recording 
the height to which the weight has been raised. Adjust- 
ments are further made in the later apparatus by which 
the total height of all contractions can be added together 
as they are carried out. Other investigators have also used 
a variable weight, or have made a group of muscles contract 
against the force of a spring. 

Rivers used a modified form of ergograph, and allowed two 
minutes' rest between each set of contractions that is, after 



148 HYGIENE 

each period when the finger no longer lifted the weight. 
The record of the contractions is shown in fig. 37. An 
interval was allowed between each of the sets I, II, III for 
recovery. The figure shows very well the onset of fatigue 
on each occasion, and the subsequent recovery, which last, 
however, gradually becomes less complete in the successive 
sets. Rivers defines fatigue as "A condition of lowered 
capacity for work, which follows or occurs during the per- 
formance of work of which it is the direct result." 

Mosso's method concentrates the attention of the subject 
on the muscular effort, and, as already mentioned, it shows 
the maximum amount of work that can be done with that 
particular weight. This aids in the elimination of outside 
factors, such as mental ones, because the factor of muscular 
fatigue is the prominent point in the mind of the person 
working. The amount of work done by the muscles increases 
with practice, up to a certain point. In daily occupation 
it remains stationary in the early part of the day, and then 
gradually falls off as fatigue comes on. Here, however, 
mental fatigue probably plays a not unimportant part. 
Various other methods have been used to measure mental 
fatigue, or fatigue of the special senses. In McDougall's 
apparatus the subject of the experiment is required to hit with 
a pencil, or other means of marking, a series of dots, which are 
made to pass in a slit in succession before his eyes. The rate 
at which the dots pass can be altered. They are marked on a 
strip of paper, and the experimenter hits them as they pass. 
Fresh pieces of paper are used for each experiment. Here 
the fatigue of the senses is being investigated. This method 
has been used to test the effect of drugs on the senses, also 
of tea, coffee, alcohol, and tobacco. The results obtained 
are considered under the appropriate chapters. (See under 
Beverages.) 

Arithmetical calculations have also been used to test the 
degree of mental fatigue which is involved in certain types 
and amounts of work of this nature. Before such experi- 
ments can be undertaken with any chance of success, it is 
clearly necessary to establish some basis upon which the 



FATIGUE 149 

comparisons can be made. The rate at which the individual 
can make the effort required must be obtained by experi- 
ment, since this differs with different persons, who, again, 
differ in the amount of work they can carry out, and in the 
time necessary for recuperation that is, in the depth of 
fatigue induced. 

A considerable number of such investigations have now 




FIG. 37. Note the dwindling height of the contractions as fatigue 
supervenes and the restored height after the two minutes' rest. Note 
also that after intervals the duration of work becomes reduced. 

been made, more especially in the direction of work in 
factories, where, however, the muscular and mental fatigue 
cannot be separated. 

An interesting investigation was carried out by Winch 
(British Journal of Psychology, 191 1) on the relative condi- 
tion of fatigue in school children in London, of different 
ages, in the morning and afternoon. Suitable mental tests 
were worked out, and the children were accustomed to 



HYGIENE 

them. The results showed that in children between six and 
seven years of age, fatigue for reasoned work was so great 
in the afternoon as to render it practically waste of time. 
On , the other hand, for the children, either boys or girls, in 
the higher standards there was no appreciable fatigue for 
reasoned work in the afternoon, especially in Standard VII. 
The mind develops with time, and the practice in work 
enables the older child to carry out the more arduous study 
without fatigue. 

Any prolonged consideration of the question of industrial 
fatigue is beyond the scope of this book. Although our 
knowledge on this subject is at present only in its early 
stages, it would seem desirable to touch briefly on the main 
features which have emerged as a result of the many investiga- 
tions made during the war in numerous factories. Some of 
them merely confirm facts already known, but are valuable 
as confirmatory evidence. 

It has long been realized that the capacity for work falls 
off after a period of time, which will vary with the individual 
and with the nature of the occupation. Some interesting 
observations were made by Pieraccini, and given to the First 
International Congress on Industrial Diseases held at Milan 
in 1906. He investigated the amount of work which was 
done by type-setters during each hour of their working day, 
and also the number of errors made during each hour. 

OUTPUT OF FOUR TYPESETTERS, SHOWING INCREASE OF ERRORS WITH 
INCREASE OF FATIGUE. 



Hours. 


8-9. 


9-10. 


IO-II. 


11-12. 


12-2. 


2-3- 


3-4- 


4-5- 


No. of lines set : 


















Total 


84 


104 


92 


86 


Rest 


99 


82 


6 4 


Average . 


21 


26 


^3 


21-5 


,, 


24-7 


20-5 


16 


Errors : 


















Total 


17 


10 


18-28 


28 


,, 


5'5 


22-6 


30 


Average . 


4-25 


2-5 


4-57 


7 


" 


i'37 


5-45 


7'5 



Four type-setters were working together, and the total 
number of lines set, and of errors made, are shown, as well 
as the average for each worker obtained by dividing the 
total by 4. 



FATIGUE 

Two primary facts emerge clearly. In the first place the 
output varies inversely with the presumed degree of fatigue, 
and in the second place the number of errors varies with 
the fatigue. The lag in the first hour of work has been found 
to be of usual occurrence, and is comparable to the getting 
into stride either in walking or in any other form of exercise 
with which everyone is familiar. Its explanation is more 
difficult. The highest results are obtained during the 
second hour, after which the output falls until the dinner 
hour. After the rest hereby obtained, the output rose 
markedly, to fall again more steeply towards evening. 
Although the rest had relieved the fatigue experienced 
before the dinner hours, it had not allowed of complete 
recuperation, so that fatigue of a deeper kind supervened 
comparatively soon after recommencing work. The com- 
bined and average output were less in the second hour 
after dinner than at any period during the morning. The 
same remarks apply in the main to the number of errors 
made at both periods of the day. 

Very similar results are shown by the study of the number 
of accidents which occur at different times of the day. 
This was ascertained for the Departmental Commission on 
Accidents in this country in 1908. Similar investigations 
were also made in Germany and in the United States with 
almost identical results. The figures given below show 
accidents in the cotton industry in the years 1911, 1912, and 
1913: 



Hour of day. 


Number of accidents. 


Percentage of 
accidents. 


Morning : 






7 to 7.59 


695 


6-49 


8 to 8.59 


970 


9-06 


9 to 9.59 


1,275 


11-90 


10 to 10.59 


1,485 


13-86 


ii to 11.59 


L438 


13-43 


Afternoon : 






i to 1.59 . 


885 


8-27 


2 to 2.59 . 


1,253 


11-70 


3 to 3.59 . ...... 


1,382 


12-90 


4 to 4.59 . 


1.327 


12-39 



152 



HYGIENE 



Fig. 38 shows these results of the last column graphically. 

It will be seen at once that the number of accidents show 
the same tendencies as the errors in the case of the type- 
setters in Florence. The number of accidents rises during 
the morning, to fall again after the midday rest, rising more 
quickly during the afternoon. It should be mentioned that 




FIG. 38. Showing the relation of the percentage of accidents to the 

time of day. 

many operatives ceased work before the last hour in the 
afternoon, and also that all did not commence work at 7 a.m. 
The general tendencies are, however, clear, and are sufficiently 
precise for the present purpose. 

During the war the output attained at works connected 
with material required for the prosecution of the fighting 
became an urgent national matter. Further, it was realized 



FATIGUE 153 

that it would be necessary to maintain the health of the 

workers so that they could continue to work until peace 

should come. The difficulties were yet greater because the 

workers, especially towards the end of the war, were pre- 

ponderatingly women, whose average physical strength 

must certainly be regarded as below that of men. The 

patriotism of the workers carried them through long periods 

of hard work, but the need for investigation into the health 

of the workers in relation to their work and also to the 

amount of work done, was realized, and wide investigations 

were carried out. It is not possible here to enter at any 

length into the results obtained, but certain prominent 

features require mention. Generally, it was found that long 

hours of work did not necessarily increase the output. The 

fatigue caused by the prolonged work rendered the rate 

of work slower, while a decrease in the working period of the 

day gave an increased output during the hours worked. As 

an example, the figures obtained from three winders are 

illuminating. During the first period of six working days 

(n half-days) the hours were 6-8 a.m., 8.30-12.30 p.m., 

and 1.30-5.30 p.m. The average output during the two 

middle-day periods each day was 5,006 bobbins. The early 

morning period was subsequently dropped for six similar 

days, during which the average output rose to 5,630 bobbins. 

As might be expected, considerable variations were found 

among the individual workers. What is, however, most 

interesting, is that further inquiries were made as to the 

feeding arrangements of the workers and as to the food 

obtained. It was found that one of the reasons for the 

improvement arising from the dropping of the early morning 

shift was that the workers could have proper breakfasts 

before coming to work. Again, in other cases it was found 

that a good output was associated with the vicinity of 

home and that the worker was able to get good food at 

each meal. 

Another interesting point was that of the time lost. It 
was found that this was greater with a long day than with a 
short day, and was evidently due, at any rate to some extent, 



154 HYGIENE 

to real fatigue and not to laziness. For example, for three 
winders working 

12 hours a day the time lost was 19-5 per cent. 
10 .. ,, ,, ,, 15-0 

8 13-3 

Tests for the fatigue of the senses were carried out in great 
numbers, the state of fatigue or otherwise being gauged 
by the acuity of vision or hearing or of some other sensation. 
The results followed the lines already indicated. Where 
overtime is worked it appears that the night is not long 
enough for recovery to take place, and the worker may start 
the next day with an accumulation of fatigue from the day 
before or of earlier origin. Such effects \\ ill be more marked 
towards the end of the week. It is, however, curious that 
Monday tends to show great fatigue. This " Monday 
effect " is not fully understood, and is probably, in part at 
least, psychological. The conclusions reached by Professor 
Kent l are of great interest. In regard to overtime fatigue 
he says : " When once an individual has, through labour 
during ordinary hours, reached a certain degree of fatigue, 
and proceeds to further labour (overtime) without taking 
the repose necessary to dissipate the fatigue already pro- 
duced, this further labour has a greater physiological effect, 
and exhausts the organism more than would a similar amount 
of labour performed when fatigue was absent. This is a 
well-known fact in physiology ; it is also a matter of ordinary 
experience. It is of importance in the present connection 
because it indicates that overtime labour is more harmful 
to the worker than labour performed during ordinary hours. 
It is therefore physiologically extravagant. 

" The payment of higher wages renders overtime economic- 
ally extravagant also. Yet higher wages are not sufficient 
to make it universally desired by the workers. Inquiries 
were made of 18 operatives in various departments of a large 
factory as to whether the overtime day with its extra rate of 
pay, or the ordinary day, ending at 5.30 p.m., would be pre- 

1 Second Interim Report on Industrial Fatigue, by Stanley Kent, 
published by H.M.S.O., Cd. 8335, 1911, p. 16 and foot-note. 



FATIGUE 155 

f erred. In reply, 15 voted against overtime, the remaining 
3 stating that they were indifferent in the matter/' 
And again, " The general health of the worker, upon which 
his rate of working and his powers of endurance depend, so 
far as it can be gauged by the tests used in this investigation, 
appears to be prejudiced by the introduction of overtime, 
and, to a less extent, by work in the early morning hours. 
The suspension of overtime was followed in every case by an 
improvement in the condition of the worker. In a large 
proportion of cases that condition was further improved by 
the suspension of work in the early morning hours. Where 
an estimate was made of the time lost by the worker and 
this was taken as ai\ indication of his general health the 
suspension of overtime was found to result in a saving of 
time of four and a half per cent. The subsequent suspension 
of the early morning period was followed by a further 
diminution in the time lost." 1 

The production of fatigue depends upon a number of 
factors, such as the habits of life, the relative strength of the 
worker in relation to the work done, the hours of work, the 
feeding arrangements, etc. Complicating the above are 
the psychological influences which, by affecting the mind, 
help to cause or prevent mental fatigue, according to their 
nature. Further investigations are being undertaken on 
these matters, and it is to be hoped that in the near future 
some of these difficult problems may receive elucidation. 

It is well known that work which is congenial produces 
less mental fatigue than that which is disliked. Also, work 
which is familiar has the same effect. Often that which 
is fatiguing and even boring at the start, proves to have 
engrossing interest when familiarity and a commencing grip 
of the subject make it easy. While no one should allow 
themselves to be discouraged in endeavouring to carry out 
the work which falls to them, it cannot be disputed that equal 
facility is not possessed by each person for each kind of work. 
Probably everyone can reach a certain standard of proficiency 
in any subject, but facility is acquired unequally owing to 

1 Op. cit., p. 65. 



156 HYGIENE 

the varying trends of mind of the different individuals. 
If no effort is made along unfamiliar lines, the mind is not 
called upon for effort, and does not develop, any more than 
the body will do if not used and made to work. 

But reason must be exercised. The young child whose 
mind is capable only of mild effort should be taken gradu- 
ally through its lessons, and not pressed with long hours or 
with hard routine or with cramping methods. It should, 
however, be encouraged to get over the difficulties with 
which it is bound to be faced, be the work ever so simple. 
Later, when the desire to excel enters into life, or even when 
troublesome examinations have to be taken, other phases 
occur. In such cases the mental stimulus may carry the 
exertion either of mind or of body over the physiological 
limits. This may arise not merely owing to the amount of 
work done, but to the time at which and the circumstances 
under which it is done. For instance, the amount of work 
done may not by itself be too great, but if in addition much 
time be taken for amusements, the combined effect may be 
disastrous, whereas a proper combination of work and play 
might have secured the desired result, and success have been 
achieved. Some relaxation is necessary, but it should be 
taken in moderate quantities and at appropriate times. 
Late nights in succession, coupled with perhaps still later 
hours of work, to be followed by a day of work and again by 
another night of amusement, will not long be endured by any 
organism. There are differences in the strain that can be 
borne by different people ; some will succumb very quickly, 
while others hold out for some while. Also, youth has powers 
of recuperation not possessed in later years, and the young 
man or woman will often show surprising powers of en- 
durance both for amusements and for work. During young 
adult life the powers are perhaps sufficient to warrant some 
degree of risk, provided always that too great risks are not 
taken. If the limiting line be overstepped, and complete 
recuperation nolonger takes place in the time allotted for rest, 
a breakdown may occur, which often takes years to recover 
from and may even show its effects all through life. It 



FATIGUE 157 

would seem almost as if the very power of recuperation 
possessed can be a danger, leading the person concerned to 
believe that it is inexhaustible until the terrible time comes 
when it is exhausted. 

In later life recuperation is slower and over-fatigue less 
easily recovered from. The staying power is, however, t 
usually greater owing, probably, to a reduced mental excite- 
ment, which last may in itself produce considerable fatigue, 
and which is more frequently present in youth. 

It should also be remembered that proper food and 
attention to the needs of the body generally make an 
immense difference in the amount of work that can be 
carried through without strain. Young women and girls 
especially are apt to regard such matters as too mundane 
to receive adequate thought, and they refuse to believe 
that these points are of fundamental importance if the 
work that falls to them is to be satisfactorily performed. 



CHAPTER XIII 

REST AND SLEEP 

BOTH rest and sleep are necessary for the maintenance of 
life. The various systems of the body cannot carry on 
their work continuously : there must be intervals when no 
work is demanded of them, so that they may recoup them- 
selves and recover from the wear and tear of the previous 
period of work. The circulatory and respiratory systems, 
which must be continuously meeting the needs of the other 
organs, have brief intervals of rest after each brief period 
of work. Inasmuch, however, as these brief periods recur 
many times in the course of a minute, the total amount of 
rest obtained by these systems in the course of the twenty- 
four hours is very large. In the heart, if the average time 
of the complete cycle be taken as -8 second, then the heart 
is at rest for just over one-half of the period : the total 
periods of rest in the twenty-four hours would therefore be 
more than twelve hours. This is only an average statement, 
as the actual amount of cardiac rest in each individual will 
vary with the rate of the heart-beat, which is influenced by 
many other factors. 

Other systems are required to work practically con- 
tinuously for prolonged periods, during which there is no 
opportunity for rest and therefore for recuperation, so that 
it is necessary to arrange for definite periods of reasonable 
length during which the various organs can repair their 
waste and re-create tissue to replace that which has become 
worn or damaged. It is hardly correct to regard the body 
in the light of a mere machine, owing to its great complexity 
and to the undoubted influence of the mind. It is possible 
that, with added knowledge of its working, many things will 

158 



REST AND SLEEP 159 

be found to be less complex than they at present appear. 
It is, however, clearly established that if health is to be 
preserved, the several systems of the body must be in a 
state of efficiency. They will only be efficient if they are 
in a proper state of repair, and they cannot be in repair 
unless time for recuperation is allowed. We are not able, 
nor is it necessary, to state precisely how much rest should 
be taken after any given period of exertion. The varied 
and subtle influences which are always at work, or which 
can be brought into action if needed, provide for fairly wide 
limits, both of exertion and of rest, within which the 
efficiency of the body can be maintained. 

Again, these limits vary with the individual, and depend 
upon hereditary influences and environment, and also upon 
general habits of life. One of the real difficulties in con- 
nection with the hygiene of the individual arises from this 
very complexity and absence of well-defined limits. Suffi- 
cient knowledge, some thought, and often a good deal of 
self-control are required in order to maintain the right 
proportion between rest and work. 

If too much rest is taken, the systems of the body gradually 
lose their efficiency and begin to deteriorate, or if insufficient 
work be undertaken during the period of development, the 
degree of development reached will be below that which 
was possible. It is probable that the degree to which 
physical development is lacking from insufficient physical 
work or exercise is very much less than that on the mental 
side. The ordinary animal spirits of the child and young 
person will, unless there are special hindrances, lead to at 
least enough bodily work or exercise to ensure development 
up to a reasonable point. There can, however, be little 
doubt that such a point is considerably below that which 
might have been attained had special methods been employed 
and special attention devoted to physical development. 
On the other hand, it can hardly 'be doubted that the limit 
of mental development reached by the average individual 
in any country is much lower than could have been reached 
with a very small additional amount of mental effort. 



160 HYGIENE 

Presumably, the faculties being of a later stage in evolution 
than the body, greater effort is required to induce them to 
work actively. The lop-sided or undeveloped mind is less 
visible outwardly than a defect of the body. It is, however, 
a mistake to suppose that it is not fairly readily discernible 
to the psychologist who knows how to look for it. 

As a nation, English people dislike being made to think 
for themselves : we prefer to be told by those who may 
be supposed to know, and a clever catch-phrase is often 
widely accepted as a correct statement because it sounds 
plausible. A little thought would often show its fallacy. 
Many children have inquiring minds, and ask intelligent 
questions, which those in charge of them are frequently 
unable to answer, but on which they are not prepared to 
admit ignorance. Thus the child's mental development is 
retarded and often stunted. The mere acquisition of 
knowledge should not, however, be regarded as the only 
form, or even the best form, of mental development. The 
capacity for reasoning and for balancing advantages and 
disadvantages is a branch of mental work which should be 
encouraged, and which often requires more real mental effort 
than any form of learning. 

The tendency to insufficient mental effort is probably 
more widespread among women than among men. It is 
less trouble to let matters involving real thought be settled 
by their brothers or husbands; and the majority of men do 
not seem to be anxious to put an end to the mental apathy 
of their womenkind. Yet such apathy is unhygienic, both 
for mind and body. The girl or woman whose mind con- 
tinually traverses the easy and well-known details of 
everyday life, without any effort at improvement, becomes 
mentally lethargic and unable to carry the mind either to 
a higher standard of her daily life or duties, or to outside 
matters of wider import. So long as life goes smoothly the 
waning of her faculties is not perhaps realized. But for 
everyone trouble and difficulty will inevitably come sooner 
or later, when mental efforts must be made if life is not to 
be dreary and purposeless. The bodily health is very 



REST AND SLEEP 161 

dependent upon the mental outlook. If the mind have no 
interest it will react unfavourably upon the body. In the 
absence of mental occupation, physical ailments, .either real 
or imaginary, assume an altogether undue prominence, 
which only too frequently leads to one of the various forms 
of nervous disorder with accompanying physical incapacity. 

Too much repose of either mind or body is to be. avoided 
just as much as too little rest. 

A good deal has already been said in Chapter XII. as to 
the ill effects of continued fatigue and over-exertion, and 
it is hardly necessary here to do more than deal with certain 
practical points relating to rest. It is very commonly 
stated that the twenty-four hours of the day and night 
should be divided into three equal periods eight hours' 
work, eight hours' rest and recreation, and eight hours' sleep. 
While this should be widely modified in practice, in ac- 
cordance with the age of the individual, it may be regarded 
as a fair statement for the average adult man or woman. 
The period of sleep should be continuous, but not the 
periods of work and rest : these require some adjustment. 
There must be intervals of rest for the taking of food, and 
there are intervals which will fall within the period allotted 
to rest, which will be absorbed in the other daily functions 
of life such as rising and going to bed, washing, etc. A 
portion of the eight hours' rest should be allotted to some 
form of recreation that is, to some diversion, either mental 
or physical, which will carry the individual away from that 
on which he is engaged during the eight hours of work. 
For those whose daily work consists primarily in physical 
effort, the recreation may profitably be that of reading 
some interesting book, or some other form of mental diver- 
sion. Those whose occupation is mainly sedentary, or who 
work indoors, should devote a part of their period of recrea- 
tion to outdoor exercise. It is apparently often believed 
that, if an occupation involves much standing and consequent 
fatigue, no exercise is necessary. Standing is fatiguing, but 
it does not replace the need for exercise, and much of the 
feeling of muscular weariness will disappear with a short, 
II 



162 HYGIENE 

brisk walk in the open air. The circulation will be quickened, 
and the feeling of fatigue, which is often also partly mental, 
will fall away. 

It is frequently asserted that the average housewife has 
no time available for recreation. Doubtless there are 
certain cases when it may be difficult for her to secure this, 
but in the great majority of cases it is due either to lack of 
method in arranging her work, or to lack of knowledge as 
to how to do it. A contributing factor lies in the fact that, 
except as to certain matters, there is no absolutely fixed 
time within which certain pieces of work have to be finished. 
The wise housewife will have at least a general outline of 
her work planned in her mind for the time of the day and 
for the days of the week, and, without necessarily adhering 
to it rigorously, she will see to it that the work is done in 
general accordance with her plans. By so doing she will 
be able to arrange for certain periods of rest and recreation 
each day. Rest should be arranged after meals, especially 
after a substantial meal, in order to allow the necessary 
blood-flow to the stomach. If exercise is taken the blood 
is diverted to the muscles and skin, and digestion is hindered. 

Rest after any special exertion, or at the end of the day 
before retiring to bed, is also good. This last induces a 
peaceful frame of mind which is conducive to restful sleep. 
One of the minor though not unimportant advantages of 
breast-feeding to the mother consists in the fact that she must 
stay quiet for from ten to fifteen minutes for feeding several 
times a day. These short intervals of compulsory rest are 
good for her both mentally and physically. Most people 
realize how rest will alter the outlook : the rather worried 
persons with a feeling of hurry driving them from behind 
lose their agitation on taking a short rest, especially if 
the rest be accompanied by some quite mild mental 
diversion. The tired muscles and the anxious mind of the 
person who worries relax if they can be persuaded to take 
rest. Too often, unfortunately, they are just the people 
who cannot appreciate the absolute need for both mental 
and physical repose. 



REST AND SLEEP 163 

Some pet hobby, if it be not exaggerated so as to become 
a nuisance to others, is to be encouraged. Life is dreary 
indeed for those who are deprived of their daily work by 
advancing years or ill health and who have no special interest 
in life. In the absence of family interests many retired 
persons fall a ready victim to indeterminate maladies when 
the real disease is that of boredom. 

It should not be forgotten that there is a definite limit 
of capacity for work for each person, and that beyond that 
limit the efficiency of the work done decreases very rapidly, 
so that it may almost be valueless. Students or others who 
have relatively short intervals of intensive work are apt 
to think that the number of hours' work they do is a criterion 
of the amount of work done or of knowledge gained. This 
is far from being the case. One hour of real mental con- 
centration on the subj ect in hand is of far greater value than 
three hours when fatigue has already supervened. The 
student starts with the idea that three hours' work is to be 
done, and the mental effort is in consequence reduced at 
the start. Later bodily fatigue intervenes, especially at 
night, and the mental effort, although perhaps as great as 
in the first instance, accomplishes little or nothing of any 
value. For purposes of systematic study, relatively short 
periods of full mental concentration are better and infinitely 
more effective than more prolonged periods, which will be 
accompanied by both bodily and mental fatigue in all but 
a few exceptional individuals. 

Sleep is indispensable to life ; without sleep we cannot 
live. During normal sleep the body is released from the 
influence of the mind, and is free to carry out the recupera- 
tion needed without interference. There is more in sleep 
than mere rest of the body. Everyone knows that eight 
hours' lying still is not at all the same as eight hours' quiet 
sleep. Many attractive and even beautiful suggestions 
have been put forward as to what happens to the mind 
during sleep. Physiological sleep is dreamless, and the 
state of the mind in this condition is not known. The 
theories above referred to mostly relate to dreams or to a 



164 HYGIENE 

partly awakened state, and are outside the province of this 
book. 

During sleep the rate of flow of the blood in the brain is 
reduced, and the arteries are contracted ; those of the skin, 
however, dilate, and more water vapour is given off. There 
is an increase in the amount of oxygen taken in, and a decrease 
in the carbon dioxide given off l ; these facts are consistent 
only with some altered or special phase of metabolism. The 
body requires to be kept warm during sleep on account of 
the dilatation of the "vessels of the skin. The face and 
nose should be uncovered so as to enable the required 
oxygen to be absorbed. For the same reason the air of a 
bedroom should always be fresh, and there should be con- 
tinuous ventilation during the night. Sleep is much more 
refreshing when the window is left open, and those who 
have once tried it are often hardly able to sleep with closed 
windows. Some modification of the degree of ventilation 
may be necessary with changes in the weather and in the 
temperature, although the last can also be met by increasing 
the warmth of the bedding and bedclothes. The really poor 
are often unable to afford this, and, in order to keep warm, 
they close the windows and block up all places where the 
cold air can possibly enter. This is far from conducive to 
good health, and the loss of good, refreshing sleep hinders 
development and impairs health. There is no advantage 
in very heavy sleep, from which, especially in badly 
ventilated rooms, less refreshment may be obtained than 
from a lighter but calmer sleep. 

A heavy meal should not be taken just before going to bed. 
It is liable to cause sleeplessness or troubled sleep with dis- 
tressing dreams. The nightmares of children are often 
traceable to this or to some form of digestive trouble. A 
warm, light meal of readily digested food may help to 
produce sleep by reducing the circulation in the brain 
and increasing that of the stomach. This is the reason why 
a feeling of sleepiness is so common after a meal, especially 

1 Pettenkoffer and Voit, Sitzungsber d. k. baier. acad., 1866-7, quated by 
Manaceine ; Sleep, 1897, P- 8 - 



REST AND SLEEP 165 

when bodily fatigue is also present. Excitement or over- 
exertion often drives sleep away, the former because the 
brain is working and prevents sleep. A satisfactory 
explanation of the latter has not as yet been put forward, 
but it is a well-known fact, and must be reckoned with. 

Sleeplessness is not infrequently due to some part of the 
body being cold. The feet are most often the primary 
cause, but some people with warm feet secure sleep by 
applying warmth to the abdomen ; this can be done by 
folding the arms over the body, if these latter are warm, 
or by a hot bottle. The feet can be warmed either by a 
hot bottle or by putting them in hot water for a few 
minutes before getting into bed, and drying with smart 
rubbing. With some people change of posture acts as an 
aid to sleep, or alteration in the level of the head, a glass of 
hot milk and water, or of milk, the nibbling of a biscuit, or 
a conscious relaxation of the muscles of the body may induce 
the sleep which does not come readily. 

Where life is carried out in conformity with the general 
laws of hygiene, and sleeplessness persists, medical advice 
should be sought. Drugs to secure sleep should only be 
taken on medical advice. 

The duration of sleep is largely a matter of habit. It is 
quite possible for sleep to be unduly prolonged, with 
consequent supervention of lethargic habits and indolence 
both of mind and body. Conversely, sleep can also be 
unduly curtailed. 

There are a number of cases of celebrated men whose 
habit it has been to sleep for a few hours only. Doubtless 
there are exceptional people who can do with less sleep 
than others, but the ordinary individual will do well to take 
seven or eight hours' sleep. 

Some of those who have written on the subject consider 
that the length of night and day should be determined by 
the sun. In agricultural districts and among the working 
population, this is necessarily very largely the case, and is 
probably sound both from physiological and hygienic 
aspects. But in towns it would be difficult to adopt, and 



166 HYGIENE 

there is no evidence to show that, if ordinary precautions are 
observed, there is any detriment in working after darkness 
has set in, or in rising before the day has broken. There 
are, at any rate, many other factors in town life which are far 
more detrimental to health. On the other hand, the fresh 
air of the early morning in the spring and summer is wonder- 
fully revivifying, and it is astonishing that so many people 
living in the country or in country towns are content to 
miss them by remaining in bed until the usual hour of 
rising all the year round. 

Children require much more sleep than adults. They are 
not capable of the exertion of so long a day, and they require 
longer rest. They are growing as well as recuperating, and 
more sleep is necessary. The town-bred child, whose bed- 
room accommodation is frequently scanty, is often given 
too short a night. Insufficient sleep is a not uncommon 
cause of stunted growth or of poor development, and should 
not be forgotten in making inquiries about a child whose 
progress is not satisfactory. 

It is impossible to lay down any precise rules which should 
govern the hours of sleep of children. The newly-born 
infant at first sleeps practically all day, later it has intervals 
of waking. Sleeping and feeding, etc., will, however, occupy 
a great part of the twenty-four hours during the early 
months of life, but the persistent rocking in order to get a 
child off to sleep again without appreciable waking intervals 
is not to be recommended. The healthy child can profit- 
ably be quiet and awake, and will learn to amuse itself 
quite well. Some attention from its family is good for it, 
while over-attention is as bad or perhaps worse than lack 
of attention. The repeated monotonous movements of 
rocking in a cradle do bring about sleep, so do also those 
made when the child is held in the arms to make it sleep. 
Both are artificial, and the child readily gets into the habit 
of sleeping only when these tricks are resorted to. It is 
bad for its nervous system to be rocked, and it should be 
allowed to sleep naturally and quietly. With advancing 
age the child will not want to sleep during the day, although 



REST AND SLEEP 167 

if laid down to sleep in a comfortable position after the 
midday meal, it will usually sleep well for a short time, up 
to three or four years of age. Children should not be allowed 
to sleep in awkward positions, such as are not infrequently 
seen in poor areas. The child sleeps leaning half out of a 
little cart, or leaning forward out of its chair over the table. 
These and other similar positions hamper respiration, and 
do not admit of satisfactory relaxation of the muscles. The 
child should sleep with its full length on the bed, either on 
its back or sides, according as it prefers. The duration of 
sleep can be gradually shortened, but for most children 
ten to eleven hours' sleep is advisable up to the age of about 
ten years. Eight hours should not be considered sufficient 
until young adult life has been reached at the age of about 
seventeen or eighteen. There will be considerable indi- 
vidual differences in the needs of children, and some modifica- 
tion in hours may also well be made to meet the changes in 
weather conditions in summer and winter. 

Neither children nor adults should be awakened abruptly 
from sleep, unless this is unavoidable. The circulation in sleep 
is not in the same state as when awake, and time is required 
for its adaptation to waking conditions. The brain has to in- 
crease its rate of blood-flow, and the supply to the other parts 
of the body has to be reduced. Brooks and Carroll l found 
that in normal individuals a fall in blood-pressure occurred 
during the early hours of sleep amounting to as much as 
24 mm. of mercury. Three hours after awakening there 
was still an average drop of 12 mm. Disturbance of sleep 
delayed, but did not prevent the maximum fall, although 
frequent interruptions of sleep did do so. It would seem 
probable, therefore, that an important element in sleep is the 
fall of blood-pressure, since practical experience shows the 
advantage of uninterrupted sleep. Some people are badly 
upset by being suddenly awakened, and many whose pro- 
fession renders them liable to be suddenly awakened will 
have experienced the indescribable feeling of physical misery 
associated with necessary rapid and sudden activity in the 

1 Arch. Int. Med., Aug. 1914, quoted by Faughtin Blood Pressure, p. 125. 



i68 HYGIENE 

early hours of the morning, especially if the weather be chilly. 
The temperature is lower at night and in the early morning, 
and the fall of the general blood-pressure during sleep will 
account for much of the discomfort of enforced sudden 
awakening to activity during these hours. 

Recently McDougall and Smith l have shown that 
deprivation of sleep has a definite effect on efficiency. Slight 
deprivation may increase the efficiency, but, after sitting up 
for three successive nights, the efficiency showed a marked 
decline, which persisted for from sixteen to nineteen days. 
These observations confirm the experience well known to 
some people that their brain is more active when there is a 
slight degree of physical fatigue. They also show that the 
after-effects of fatigue persist for considerable periods, so 
that recuperation would appear to be a longer process than 
is often supposed. 

1 Proceedings of the British Association, Physiological Section, August 
1920. 



CHAPTER XIV 

ON BEVERAGES 

IT is essential for the maintenance of health that a consider- 
able amount of water should be taken into the body each 
day. All food-stuffs contain large amounts of water in their 
composition, but more water is required than that taken 
in as a part of the food. The amount of water required will 
depend upon the climate, and will vary with the tempera- 
ture of the day and with the amount of exercise taken. Water 
vapour is continually being given off from both lungs and 
skin, and must be replaced by the drinking of water. 

An average amount of fluid required by an adult in this 
climate is usually said to be 1,500 c.c., or about 2\ pints per 
day ; it will, however, vary considerably, as already stated. 

Water, which is liked by many people, is generally found 
to be rather insipid as the only beverage, and most nations 
of the world have devised for themselves various fluids which 
have a flavour, and which are used by them to provide the 
necessary water, either wholly or in part. Many of the 
fluids contain substances other than water of considerable 
importance, so that, while supplying the necessary fluid, 
they also have other general effects upon the body. For 
the most part these substances are harmful if taken in more 
than very small amounts, and their action must be regarded 
as drug action. 

It would be beyond the scope of this work to enter into a 
discussion of the various fluids taken as beverages by the 
various nations of the world, although this is a subject of 
more interest than might perhaps be supposed. It must 
suffice to consider the common beverages in use in this 
country. These will be taken to include tea, coffee, cocoa, 

169 



170 HYGIENE 

milk, and alcoholic drinks of various kinds. It seems advis- 
able to emphasize again the need for taking a sufficient 
quantity of fluid during the twenty-four hours. As a whole 
men probably drink relatively more fluid than women, who 
tend to take too little fluid. There is an idea that the taking 
of a sufficient amount of fluid will conduce to the formation 
of fat, an idea which appears to fill many women's minds 
with horror. It is difficult, however, to see how such an 
idea can have arisen, nor does there seem to be any ground 
whatever for this statement. Fat formation is derived from 
food, and not from beverages. The obesity which follows 
the taking of large amounts of alcoholic liquors is not due to 
the water in the liquors, but to the effects of the alcohol. 
There is nothing fattening in water taken in reasonable 
amounts ; but taken in excessive quantities it may produce 
some degree of debility. 

Water taken in by the mouth is absorbed mainly from 
the small intestine, and is passed round to the tissues 
in the circulation. In proper amounts it flushes them, 
and helps to remove the solid waste products which are 
then discharged by the kidneys. If too little fluid is 
taken each day, the waste products may tend to accu- 
mulate, and, in any case, more work is thrown on the 
kidneys, which have then to secrete urine against a much 
higher pressure than should be necessary. Further, an 
insufficient water intake is not infrequently a source of 
trouble with the alimentary canal. Insufficient fluid intake 
may be the cause of some degree of constipation. Absorption 
of fluid takes place from the large bowel, and if the amount 
of fluid be insufficient, the proper action of the bowels in 
getting rid of waste materials may be hindered. The addi- 
tion of water to the dietary will frequently relieve such a 
condition, especially in infants and young children. Too 
often the amount of fluid taken by the mouth consists of a 
cup of tea at breakfast, a sip or two of water at lunch, one 
or two small cups of tea at tea-time, and a few sips of water 
in the evening a total intake of (probably) about i pint 
instead of the 2\ pints required. 



BEVERAGES 171 

The beverages above mentioned, which are to be con- 
sidered in this chapter, fall into three headings, according as 
they have nutritive properties or not, viz. : 

1. Cocoa, milk have definite nutritive value. 

2. Tea, coffee have no value as food-stuffs. 

3. Alcoholic liquors may, in certain special circum- 

stances, be regarded as having some nutritive value. 

The fluids of groups 2 and 3 have stimulating properties, 
but their actions are different, both in nature and intensity. 
Those of group i have no direct stimulating properties 
apart from what may be due to their food value or to the 
conditions under which they are taken. A hot beverage is 
more stimulating than a cold one, because warmth is supplied 
to the body thereby, apart from any action of the substances 
in the liquid. Tea, coffee, and cocoa are usually provided 
hot, and in cold weather milk is often warmed before being 
taken. 

Milk in this chapter is taken to be cow's milk, which con- 
tains about 11-12 per cent, of solid material. This is made 
up roughly as follows : protein, 3 per cent. ; sugar, 4*5-5 per 
cent. ; fat, 3 per cent. ; salts, o'8 per cent. ; and water, 87-88 per 
cent. Milk may therefore be regarded as a food, at any rate 
in some degree : it is the only food required by infants, and 
its value as a food-stuff for adults will be discussed in 
Chapter XIX. As a beverage it is very expensive at the 
present time, and must be regarded as a luxury rather than a 
necessity for all except infants. Cocoa contains fat, some 
of which is extracted in the process of manufacture of cocoa. 
This fat is known as cocoa-butter and became well known 
during the war, when fat shortage was acute. Cocoa or 
chocolate taken as a beverage usually receives additions in 
the form of sugar and milk, a good deal of both these in- 
gredients being used by some people. When ready for 
consumption, therefore, it may contain a fair proportion of 
food-stuffs. A cup of cocoa may in effect be at least one- 
third milk, and, if made in the first instance with milk, may be 



172 HYGIENE 

mainly milk, with the further addition of sugar and cocoa- 
butter. Thus it is comparatively rich in food-stuffs and is a 
nourishing beverage. Taken frequently, as above described, 
it would appear to have a tendency to produce the laying 
down of fat, which, however, may be merely due to the 
addition of this amount of food-stuffs to the dietary. The 
absence of any stimulating properties and the presence of 
nutritive substances make cocoa a very useful beverage for 
those needing to recuperate their powers. It is not as much 
used by poor persons as it might profitably be, on account, 
apparently, of its being given in prisons and workhouses, and 
has therefore become " tainted " in their minds. 

In this country tea is more widely drunk than coffee, 
although the reverse is the case in most Continental countries. 
It is difficult to say why there should be this distinction ; 
generally, however, Continental nations take more trouble 
over the preparation of their food than we do. Tea can be 
made and be a pleasant beverage with, as a whole, less trouble 
than coffee. Coffee needs grinding, and this must either be 
done at the home or it must be purchased ready ground at 
the shop. Ground coffee deteriorates rapidly in flavour, 
and to be nice must either be purchased at frequent intervals 
or ground for each occasion. Tea, on the other hand, if 
kept in a canister, preserves its flavour quite well, and requires 
no preliminary treatment. Again, as will be shown below, 
tea, as a whole, is a stronger beverage than coffee. The 
alcoholic liquors taken in this country, as beer, etc., are nearly 
all stronger than those taken on the Continent, so that there 
may be a general national tendency towards a heavier type 
of beverage. Also, tea is as a whole cheaper in this country 
than coffee. Tea and coffee both contain caffein or thein, 1 
which when prepared separately is used as a drug. There is 
no constant percentage of caffein in either tea or coffee, the 
amount varying with the different varieties and qualities. 
An essential distinction between tea and coffee lies in the 
presence of tannin in tea, but not in coffee. The following 

1 Both these names apply only to the one substance which is known 
commercially as caffein. 



BEVERAGES 



173 



amounts of caffein and tannin have been found in dry tea- 
leaves before use : 



Caffein . 
Tannin 



Black tea. 
Per cent. 

3-2 
16-4 



Green tea. 
Per cent. 

2-3 

27-1 



while the caffein in most coffee beans is said to amount to 
O'8 per cent, only, and no tannin is present. These figures 
clearly give no indication of the amount of caffein and tannin 
taken in the actual beverages. A teaspoonful of tea may be 
taken to weigh 5 grammes, and 10-12 grammes of coffee 
roughly equal one dessertspoonful of ground coffee. 

Smith l used 5 grammes of tea infused with 250 c.c. of 
water, or about a fair-sized teacupful. He found that ap- 
proximately 98 per cent, of the caffein came out into the tea 
infusion, of which the greater part was found in the first 
250 c.c. of boiling water poured on to the tea-leaves. The 
analysis of the tea-leaves gave : 



Ceylon tea 
China 



Caffein. 
Per cent. 



2-60 



Tannin. 
Per cent. 



I3-78 



The first infusion was allowed to stand for five minutes, was 
then poured off, and another 250 c.c. of boiling water was 
poured on. The infusions were analysed, and 100 c.c. con- 
tained the amounts shown below : 





Tannin in 
grammes. 


Percentage 
of total 
tannin . 


Caffein in 
grammes. 


Percentage 
of total 
caffein. 


Ceylon tea : 
First infusion . 
Second ,, 


0-199 

0-053 


70-5 

18-8 


0-055 
0-007 


86-5 
II-O 


Total .... 




892 




97-5 


China tea : 
First infusion . 
Second ,, 


0-151 

0-032 


54-7 
n-6 


0-040 
0-009 


76-9 
17-3 


Total .... 




66-3 




94-2 



1 "Tea Infusions and their Constituents," Pharmaceutical Journal and 
Pharmacist, June 28, 1913. 



174 HYGIENE 

These figures show that nearly all the caffein is extracted, 
of which by far the greater amount comes out in the first 
infusion. The same remarks apply to the tannin, but rather 
less markedly. Taking 3*2 as the percentage of caffein, 5 
grammes of tea would contain o'i8 gramme. If several 
cups of tea be taken during the day, the amount of caffein 
taken becomes considerable, and will produce effects which 
are comparable to small doses of the drug itself. Rivers 
(see p. 175) was rendered markedly sleepless by '5 gramme 
taken some hours before going to bed. Smith found that 
the hardness of the water did not affect the amount of caffein 
extracted, although it brought about some diminution of the 
tannin in the infusion. Some people in former days used 
sodium bicarbonate in the teapot with a view to reducing 
the hardness of the water or obtaining stronger tea. The 
sodium gives a darker colour, but does not affect the amount 
of caffein present. 

Much evidently depends on the method of making both 
tea and coffee ; namely, the amount of tea or coffee used, and 
the quantity of water. Coffee becomes blacker if boiled for 
a prolonged period, as also does tea if allowed to stand. 
There is very little precise evidence of the harmfulness or 
otherwise of the effects of prolonged standing or boiling. 
Generally, however, it may be taken that tea should be 
freshly made and used, and that coffee should only be boiled 
for a few minutes. It is probable that large amounts of 
tannin are prejudicial, since tannic acid precipitates protein 
and would therefore hamper digestion in the stomach. It is 
possible that this may have some connection with the 
indigestion often experienced by taking tea with a meal 
wherein protein forms an important part. Coffee rather 
than tea seems to be taken more usually with meals con- 
taining protein, and the custom is probably due to the 
action of tannin. It is well known that stewed tea is both 
unwholesome and disagreeable. Tea should be freshly made 
with water which has just come to the boil. The teapot 
should be previously warmed, so that the temperature of the 
water does not fall rapidly on being poured on to the leaves, 



BEVERAGES 175 

and the tea should not be allowed to stand for more than a 
few minutes. . The teapot should be thoroughly cleaned, and 
its used leaves removed between each use. Tea should not 
be taken from a pot which has been left standing for a pro- 
longed period on the hob. 

The ground chicory root commonly added to ground coffee 
is innocuous : it is liked by some people and not by others. 
It makes the coffee look darker and therefore stronger. 
The really delicate flavour of the coffee bean is said by^ 
travellers to be unknown in this country the best coffee 
being sent to or kept in Asia. It is also said that the best 
tea can be obtained only in the East. 

It is now necessary to consider the effects of caffein on the 
system. A number of investigations have been carried out, 
especially on the effects of caffein as a drug. In these cases, 
however, the amounts used have often been in excess of 
that found in tea or coffee when used as a beverage, and are 
not, therefore, strictly applicable to the hygienic side. But a 
certain number of experiments on the effects of small doses, 
roughly comparable to the amounts contained in tea or 
coffee, have been carried out, notably by Rivers l and 
McDougall 2 in this country. 3 While certain differences 
were found between the various observers, as a whole the 
general results correspond very well. There would seem 
to be no doubt, that caffein has a stimulating action and, 
up to a point, increases the capacity for muscular and mental 
work, especially when taken in small quantities. If taken 
in larger amounts, however, it seems to act as an accelerator 
of the onset of fatigue. With small doses, at any rate, there 
would appear to be no reaction after the stimulus. The 
results varied, however, with the person taking the liquid. 4 

1 Rivers, Influence of Alcohol, etc., on Fatigue, published by Arnold, 1908. 

2 McDougall, British Journal of Psychology, 1905, vol. i, p. 442. 

3 The dose taken by Rivers and his collaborators was -5 gramme, or 
about the equivalent of caffein in three flat teaspoonfuls of tea-leaves. 
(See above.) 

4 In one case no tea or coffee had been taken for two years before the 
experimental period, and the effects were much more marked than in the 
case of another investigator who had been taking moderate amounts right 
up to the experimental period. 



176 HYGIENE 

Control mixtures were made up containing no caffein, and 
in which the taste could not be distinguished from that 
containing the caffein, and the person experimented on was 
not told which of the mixtures had been taken. The tests 
were carried out on an ergograph (for details cp. pp. 146 
et seq.) to test the amount of muscular work done, also on 
a typewriter, and on McDougall's apparatus, where the ex- 
perimenter has to hit dots passing through an aperture in 
front of him. 

Roughly the same results were obtained by the different 
methods. The two last methods are primarily a test of 
mental work, and the ergograph of muscular work. It seems 
that caffein acts to some extent on the central nervous system 
as well as on the peripheral nerves, since there is an effect 
both in regard to mental and muscular work. As already 
pointed out, it is impossible actually to translate these 
experiments into terms of cups of tea or coffee, because great 
variation is experienced both in the variety of the tea or 
coffee used, and in the amounts taken to make the same 
quantity of the beverage ; also in the size of the cup used. 

While tea or coffee in reasonable quantities and in reason- 
able strength two or even three times a day may not be 
injurious, it is evident that repeated draughts of strong tea 
or coffee must be detrimental. The central nervous system 
should not be stimulated artificially at frequent short inter- 
vals. In such cases caffein will exert its influence as an 
accelerator of fatigue. The habits acquired by some people, 
especially women, of drinking tea at intervals of every two or 
three hours during the day cannot be other than harmful 
and set up a vicious circle. Fatigue is induced by the 
continued administration of caffein as tea and coffee, and 
efforts are made to counteract this effect by taking further 
doses of the drug. Ultimately exhaustion and ill-health will 
supervene. 

The key-note to personal hygiene is moderation in all 
things. 



BEVERAGES 177 

ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS 

It is not proposed to enter here at any length into a dis- 
cussion upon so-called temperance or intemperance. Com- 
mon knowledge and observation alone are required to realize 
the horrible effects of excessive doses of alcohol. There 
is no need to expatiate upon the attendant evils of drunken- 
ness to the person himself, or herself, and to those with whom 
they live, or to the community. This last bears the loss of 
labour and the cost of the ill health of the drunkard, or even 
of those who would not be considered as falling within so sad 
a category. It will presumably be admitted by all that 
alcohol, when taken in quantities sufficient to affect the out- 
ward behaviour of the individual, is detrimental both to the 
mind and to the body. 

The question to be considered here is whether small doses 
of alcohol are detrimental, such as would be taken by those 
who, while never taking excessive amounts, habitually take 
some quantity of alcohol in the day. Before this can be 
dealt with, some general discussion of certain aspects of the 
question appears necessary. The alcohol now under con- 
sideration is ethylic alcohol, which has the chemical formula 
C 2 H 5 OH or C 2 H 6 O. It is formed by fermentation from a 
large variety of substances, and different methods are 
employed in its manufacture. Most nations, other than the 
very primitive ones, have devised some form of alcoholic 
liquors. Some of these contain large amounts of water, 
with relatively small amounts of alcohol, and so through all 
degrees of strength, until in some there is more alcohol than 
water. Each kind of liquor has a special flavour arising from 
the essential oils and other substances present in the fruit or 
grain, etc., from which the beverage has been manufactured. 

The following figures give a rough idea of the amount of 
alcohol present in the commoner alcoholic drinks taken in 
this country : 

Whisky . . -\ 

Rum . . . I Formerly 50-60 per cent, alcohol ; now 30 -40 
Gin . . .1 per cent, alcohol by volume. 
Strong liqueurs 
12 



178 HYGIENE 



:},, 



Brandy. . . Formerly 43-47 per cent. ; now 30-40 per cent. 

by volume. 

Port wine . . 20-30 per cent, approximately, by volume. 
Sherry . . . 16-22 

Champagne . . 10-13 

Burgundy 
Hock . 
Claret . 
Cider . 
Strong ale 
Stout . 

Light beer , -\Upto 4,, 
Porter . . J 

The strong spirits are usually taken diluted with water. 
A half-pint tumbler of whisky, which has been diluted with 
three times its volume of water, will still contain about 
i J fluid ounces of pure alcohol, and the percentage of alcohol 
will still be higher than that found in the majority of wines, 
except port wine. 

These figures are of some importance because the numerous 
experiments which have been carried out recently, and which 
will be considered below, are almost entirely based on cubic 
centimetres of pure alcohol and not on fluid ounces of wine. 

It would be quite impossible in a work of this kind to 
make any attempt whatever to give an account of the im- 
mense mass of work which has been done on the subject of 
alcohol taken as a beverage. Although the investigations 
are apparently simple, there are many pitfalls. For instance, 
it is well known that some people are more susceptible to 
alcohol than others ; again, a considerable amount of toler- 
ance is established by those who habitually take alcoholic 
drinks, so that experiments conducted upon two individuals 
may not produce the same effect. Then there is the further 
question of the test to be employed, and the standard to be 
used, in determining the effect of taking alcohol. The 
difficulties will probably be more readily appreciated by 
considering the action of alcohol on the body. Taken into 
the stomach, the general effect of alcohol is to produce an 
initial stimulus to the heart and to cause a dilatation of the 
vessels of the skin : this last appears to be a specific action. 
The effect is to cause a sensation of warmth, since the sensa- 



BEVERAGES 179 

tions of warmth or cold depend upon the differences of 
temperature between the skin and the inner part of the body 
(cp. p. 54). Alcohol is probably absorbed only in small 
amounts from the stomach, and mainly from the small 
intestine. The rate of absorption varies markedly under 
different circumstances, notably according as the alcohol is 
taken fasting or with food, which retards absorption (cp. 
Reports 31 and 34 of the Medical Research Council and 
tables below), and also with the food taken. The presence 
of fat in the food further retards the passage of alcohol into 
the blood. Alcohol would appear to undergo no change in 
the alimentary canal, but to be absorbed directly into the 
blood-stream and thus carried round to all parts of the body. 

Taken in doses which cannot be regarded as sufficiently 
large to produce a condition even approaching to inebriety, 
it yet has effects on the central nervous system. The person 
who takes even small amounts of alcohol does so because he 
finds he " feels " better and generally happier. He would 
not take it unless he did, for alcohol is an expensive form of 
fluid, and with many people is an acquired taste. The 
troubles which had seemed serious seem less so under the 
influence of a little alcohol, and the individual becomes less 
critical both of himself and of others. His judgment is 
less clear, but he feels cheerier himself, and is under the 
impression that his abilities are sharpened ; presumably this 
is due to the fact that the edge of his critical faculties has 
been blunted. 

Hence it arises that people think they work better and are 
in a better mental condition after taking alcohol. As a 
matter of fact, the reverse is the case, as has been found 
abundantly by numerous careful observers. The sensations 
of a person who takes alcohol are no guide to the true con- 
dition. 

The stimulation gradually passes off and leaves the heart 
and system generally in a condition more exhausted than it 
was before. 

It has been shown repeatedly that soldiers and others 
engaged in hard muscular effort have their capacity for work 



i8o 



HYGIENE 



impaired by taking the ordinary allowances of beer or other 
form of alcohol. They may be said to expend a greater 
amount of energy in performing the same amount of labour, 
or they may do less work in a given time ; they do not 
march long distances so readily as their fellows who take no 
alcohol. 

The effect of alcohol on mental efficiency has been studied 
by Vernon and his collaborators. 1 Each experimenter was 
set a definite task with a typewriter, a machine with which 
all concerned were familiar, and one person used an adding 
machine. The chief points investigated were the rate of 
typing and the number of errors made, before and after 
taking alcohol. In some of the persons concerned there 
was a definite effect on the rate of typing, which was reduced ; 
in one case, however, there was no effect on the rate. But 
the effect on the number of errors made was quite definite, 
and pointed clearly to a detrimental effect of the alcohol. 
This is well shown by the table given below, 2 which also shows 



Effects of alcohol taken 
with food at 7.5-7.25 p.m. 

Mean time at which 
typing was made. 


Time taken. 


Mistakes made. 


Mean values. 


Mistakes 
corrected 
to con- 
stant 
typing 
speed. 


Slow 
typing. 


Fast 
typing. 


Slow 

typing. 


Fast 

typing. 


Time. 


Mis- 
takes. 


30 c.c. 


9.15 a.m. 


II9-3 


II2-0 


0-7 


3-4 


115-61 


2-1 


2-3 


alcohol 


6.41 p.m. 


119-0 


108-1 


0-7 


2-8 


1 13-6/ Ir 4 " 


1-8 


1-6 


(Feb. i 4 -1 


9 p.m. 


I20-I 


IIO-5 


1-8 


4-2 


JI 5-3 


3' 


3-2 


20) 


^10.40 p.m. 


122'! 


II2-0 


T ' 5 


3-o 


1 17-0 


2-2 


2-7 


60 c.c. 


fg.io a.m. 


ni-7 


103-7 


2-2 


3-8 


107-6) 


3-0 


3-2 


alcohol 


6.38 p.m. 


109-5 


101-8 


1-8 


3-6 


105-6 ( Io 


2-7 


2-5 


(Feb. 28- 


8.51 p.m. 


in-4 


105-4 


4-3 


5-6 


108-4 




5-4 


Mar. 6) 


[10.42 p.m. 


IIO-I 


102-4 


2-6 


4-3 


106-3 


3-4 


3-3 


Effect of 


f4-5<> P.m. 


IIO-2 


IO2-2 


i-i 


3- 


106-2 


2-1 


2-1 


30 c.c. 


















alcohol 


5-52 p.m. 


115-5 


108-1 


3-1 


5-5 


in-8 


4-3 


5-5 


at 5 p.m. 4 


















on an 


7.6p.m. 


II4-0 


104-7 


1-4 


3-5 


109-3 


2-5 


3-2 


empty 


















stomach 


9-14 P.m. 


II5-8 


106-0 


i-3 


3-3 


110-9 


2-3 


3-3 



1 Report to the Medical Research Council, No. 34. 

2 Loc. cit., pp. ii and 12. 



BEVERAGES 



181 



the increased effect of alcohol taken without food. The 
results are shown graphically in fig. 39. 

The greater effect of 60 c.c. over 30 c.c. of alcohol taken 




O) 



00 



^ MH 

r o + 



I? 



UJ 0) 

^ ^ 



bo 

I 



III 



with food is shown, and the effect lasts longer. It is of 
importance to note that 30 c.c. alcohol taken without food 
show a rather more marked result on the errors than 60 c.c. 



182 



HYGIENE 



taken with food ; also, the effect supervenes more rapidly. 
The maximiihi effect was found by other experiments to take 
place about 30 minutes after taking 30 c.c. alcohol without 
food and 40 minutes after 30 c.c. taken with food. The 
curve corresponds very closely with the percentage of alcohol 
found in the blood in experiments carried out by Mellanby 1 
(see below). 

Further, the nature of the food taken affects the rate of 



I, 



fat less mea.1 




fatty meal 




89 
TIME: or TYPING 



10 



FIG. 40. Showing the effect of alcohol taken with food, without and with 
fat. Note the non-rapid rise and fall of the curve of the fatless meal. 

(By permission of His Majesty's Stationery Office.) 

absorption. The number of mistakes made shows less 
increase when fat is taken than without it. On the other 
hand, the duration of the period over which the increased 
number of errors is made is very considerably prolonged ; 
the curve shows that the errors made fall more slowly with 
the fatty meal than with the fatless one. 

The presence of the fat retards the absorption, spreading 
out the period during which alcohol is entering the blood- 

1 Report to the Medical Research Council, No. 31. 



BEVERAGES 



183 



stream ; the time of elimination of the alcohol is, therefore, 
of longer duration. 

Fig. 40 shows this very well. The actual figures obtained 
are not here reproduced. 

It is interesting to compare the curves already given with 
the work of Mellanby on the concentration of alcohol in the 



O NO FOOD 

2t HOURS AFTER DREAD * MILK 
3* ... 

Gi ... 



221 

I77J 

133 



HOURS 



FIG. 41. Showing the amount of alcohol in the blood when taken at 
various times in relation to food. 

(By permission of His Majesty's Stationery Office.) 

blood under similar conditions of food and without food. 
Mellanby's work was carried out on dogs. Fig. 41 shows 
the effect of taking alcohol at different periods after a meal 
of bread and milk. After 6 J hours the stomach was presum- 
ably empty, and the results approximated to those found 
after the night's interval. 1 

1 Medical Research Council Special Report Series, No. 31, p. 23, fig. viii. 



184 



HYGIENE 



Mellanby had also found that fat had an inhibitory effect 
on the absorption of alcohol. 

In another case experiments with an adding machine 
were undertaken by an individual who was accustomed to 
take small doses of alcohol in the evenings, if so inclined. 
The figures in the table below l show the results of an 
experiment conducted over several weeks, both with and 
without alcohol. The smaller dose of 150 c.c. claret with 
food was found to have very little effect, but the increase 
to 190 c.c. without food showed a marked increase of 
errors made. 

It may be noted that the 190 c.c. of claret with 19-4 c.c. 
of alcohol correspond closely as regards alcohol content 
with about one glass of port wine which was used in some 
of the experiments and found to contain 18-5 c.c. of pure 
alcohol. 



No. of days on which 
experiments were 
made, and dates. 


Time and conditions of 
experiments. 


Mean time for 
two slow 
experiments. 


Mean time for 
two fast 
experiments. 


Mean of slow 
and fast 
experiments. 


Time. 


Eriors. 


Time. 


Errors. 


Time-] Errors. 


10 (May 11-21) 


After lunch without 
















alcohol 


75'7 


i'5 


66-7 


3'4 


71-2 


2-4 





After tea without 
















alcohol 


76-0 


1-4 


67-7 


5'5 


7 I-8 


3'4 


6 (May 22-29) 


After lunch, with 150 
















c.c. claret ( = 15-3 
















c.c. alcohol) . 


73-9 


1-7 


64-1 


5-i 


69-0 


3-4 





After tea without 
















alcohol 


7 2 '3 


2< 3 


62-4 


3'7 


67-4 


3' 


5 (May 30- 


After lunch without 














June 6) 


alcohol 


75-6 


r-4 


64-2 


3'8 


69-9 


2-6 


M 


After tea without 
















alcohol 


74'5 


I-O 


61-0 


3-8 


68-2 


2-4 


6 (June 7-14) 


Early afternoon, \ hr. 
















after taking 190 c.c. 
















claret ( = 19-4 c.c. 
















alcohol) without 
















food . 


71-1 


2-0 


62-4 


7-2 


55-8 


4-6 





After tea without 
















alcohol 


73' 


0-4 


62-3 


2-6 


67-7 


i'5 


5 (June 17-21) After lunch without 
















alcohol 


70-0 


i-5 


63-5 


3'7 


66-8 


2-6 





After tea without 
















alcohol 


68-0 


o-5 


62-0 


3' 


65-0 


1-8 



Medical Research Council Special Report, No. 34, p. 54. 



BEVERAGES 185 

In this table it is seen that there was a slight effect on the 
rate of adding, a longer time being taken to do the same 
piece of work that is, the rate was reduced. The effect on 
the errors made is, however, again the most marked. 

There is therefore abundant evidence that alcohol, even 
when taken in amounts comparable with that regarded as 
most reasonable for those who take alcohol at all, exercises 
a detrimental effect both on the general capacity for work 
and on the faculties. It can hardly be supposed that a 
continual effect such as is shown above can be without 
permanent detriment to the body generally. Anyone who 
will take the trouble to make observations will readily 
discover that the most alert people, who preserve the 
elasticity of their mind and body with advancing years, are 
those who do not habitually take alcohol. Those who 
early lose their muscular agility, and whose minds get set, 
will usually be found to take alcohol fairly habitually, 
although not necessarily in large amounts. 

It is often contended that alcohol is a food, and that as 
such it should be beneficial. In the ordinary acceptation 
of the term, alcohol is not a food. At the same time, in 
certain circumstances it may have a certain food-value. 
Roughly, if there is already a sufficient dietary of other 
substances, alcohol does not act as a food ; the tissues have 
enough fuel without the alcohol. If, however, for one reason 
or another an insufficient food-supply only is available, 
then alcohol can be used in small amounts as a food that 
is to say, it can provide energy, but it is not available for 
building up tissue ; rather, it is a tissue-sparer. 

It is hardly possible to come to any other conclusion but 
that alcohol is a drug having harmful effects, and the wise 
person will keep away from it as from all other drugs unless 
ordered by a doctor. 



CHAPTER XV 

ON FOOD AND FEEDING 

THE Great War brought the whole question of food into a 
prominence it had never previously possessed for the great 
majority of persons. The acute shortage of various foods 
and the complete disappearance of others from the market 
caused much thought to be given to it, both by individuals 
and by the scientific world. 

Terrible experiments in nutrition on a gigantic scale have 
been witnessed among the nations of Central Europe, who 
have suffered nutritionally far worse than the Allies. No 
attempt will be made to cover the physiological side of 
nutrition, but no text-book on hygiene of the present type 
would be complete that did not give some information as 
to the way in which the various food- stuffs should be com- 
bined and eaten in order to preserve health. 

Each nation has developed its own dishes and has certain 
special foods which are widely eaten. In most cases they 
represent some commodity which grows readily, or is readily 
obtained, in the country itself. For example, the fisher 
folk in Scandinavia or in the Shetland Isles live largely on 
fish, the natives of Malay on rice, etc. Where the climate 
is hard, the variety of food is generally restricted, the 
warmer and more favoured countries having at hand a 
larger number of food materials. Among primitive peoples 
many appear content with a very simple dietary, often 
most monotonous, rather than exert themselves to secure 
a more varied food-supply. In some countries the staple 
food substance is deficient in certain materials which we 
know to be necessary for the body, and in those countries 
diseases of special kinds are very prevalent. It is only 

186 



FOOD AND FEEDING 187 

within the last twenty to thirty years that the causation 
of these diseases has been traced to a defective dietary. As 
a whole, it seems that the more prominent nations of the 
world have gradually widened the bases of their food supply, 
and take a mixed diet. This is very desirable, and the food- 
stuffs taken should be varied ; but, in order to obtain the 
best results, some knowledge of the constitution of food- 
stuffs is necessary. Custom has in many cases found 
suitable mixtures in the way of dishes, or combinations of 
dishes, but there is still much to be desired in this direction 
among many sections and classes of the community in this 
country. 

The general effect of feeding on health has long been 
realized, but proper attention to the food taken has been 
regarded as denoting greed, and it is also clear that ignorance 
still plays a large part in the unsatisfactory dietary of 
many. It is almost certain that a great deal of ill health 
both in adults and children is caused by an improper dietary 
rather than by an inadequate one. 

This has been brought out very clearly by the work of 
physiologists during the last ten years. Although there is 
much that still requires further investigation, enough is 
known to form a valuable aid in arranging suitable dietaries. 
It may assist to a clear understanding of the position if 
some account is given of how the knowledge has been 
acquired, and of some of the experiments carried out. 
Physiology, as it is known at present, is of comparatively 
recent origin, but one of the subjects very early appreciated 
was the fact that food was the body's fuel. The body is 
continually giving off heat, and must get rid of heat, if life 
is to be carried on. The heat thus got rid of must be 
supplied from some source, and that source is the food. 
The food, after its entrance into the body, is broken down 
into smaller molecules, and these are absorbed before being 
utilized for the repair of tissue waste. In the process of 
being broken down and utilized heat is given off, and it is 
from this source that the energy necessary for life and 
activity is obtained. Hard work increases the heat given 



i88 HYGIENE 

off, and therefore increases the demand for energy and 
hence for food. 

The amount of heat liberated varies widely with different 
food-stuffs : fats show the greatest amount of heat given 
off on combustion per gramme of weight. It might be 
supposed that the nature of the food-stuff was immaterial, 
if the necessary amount of heat were provided. This is, 
however, far from being the case. It has been realized 
for many years that health could not be maintained un- 
less proteins (nitrogen-containing substances), fats, carbo- 
hydrates (sugars and starches), salts and water were taken 
in the dietary. Experiments have shown that to some 
extent the first three classes of food-stuffs are interchangeable. 
There must be a minimum intake of nitrogen, and this must 
be in the form of protein ; a part of the protein can, how- 
ever, be transformed into sugar by the organism, and fats 
and carbohydrates can also be transposed. But there is a 
limit to the interchangeability, and a minimum quantity of 
all the above constituents must be supplied. Also, before 
the amount of each constituent falls so low as to approach 
the minimum, there is considerable loss, since the inter- 
changing involves waste of energy. 

The amount of heat given off by the various food-stuffs 
has been studied and is known, being measured in large 
calories, or the amount of heat required to raise 1,000 
grammes of water through one degree Centigrade. 

Rubner worked out " standard values," which are 
generally accepted for determining the average fuel value 
of dietaries and substances. These values are : 

Calories. 

For each gramme of protein . . . . 4'i 
fat . 9'3 

,, ,, ,, ,, carbohydrate . . . 4*1 

The amount of energy required will depend a great deal on 
the nature and amount of work done and upon the age and 
size of the individual. For an adult man doing average 
work, food-stuffs having a value of about 3,000 calories 
per day is generally regarded as necessary in this country. 



FOOD AND FEEDING 189 

The requirements of other persons have recently been 
worked out, and are given below (see p. 191). 

Rubner showed many years ago that the loss of heat was 
in proportion to the surface of the body, and that the heat 
loss in the young was relatively greater than in the adult. 
Further, it must be remembered that energy is required 
for growth. Some very interesting work has been done on 
this question. It has been found that " the energy (calories) 
which is necessary to double the weight of the newborn of 
all species (except man) is the same per kilogram, no matter 
whether the animal grows quickly or slowly." : Some 4,800 
calories is the figure required (approximately) for all animals 
except man, when the amount is six times as great. A 
certain proportion of energy contained in the food is retained 
for purposes of growth ; the precise proportion thus utilized 
will depend upon circumstances. If the animal is very 
active a larger proportion will be used in the work done, 
leaving a less amount for growth, which will thus be slower : 
the rate at which growth takes place depends upon the 
adjustment between growth and repair. If this is borne in 
mind the practical applications are very clear. Children 
should not be allowed to over-fatigue themselves, since 
this will require that an undue proportion of energy will 
be used for repair, and growth will be hindered. If it be 
argued that an extra food supply would admit of growth 
and repair after great exertion, it should be remembered 
that the stomach and intestines must also be considered, 
and that, if they are overtaxed, and especially under condi- 
tions of bodily fatigue, indigestion, with consequent mal- 
nutrition, will be the almost inevitable result. An interesting 
fact has been discovered by Rubner. He finds that each 
kilogram of adult body substance metabolizes an average 
of 191,600 calories before it becomes exhausted that is, 
before death occurs. In the case of man this amount is 
much greater, being about 775,770 calories. The cells of 
the human body appear, therefore, to be capable of utilizing 
a much greater amount of energy than those of animals. 

1 Lusk, The Science of Nutrition, p. 414. Third Edition. 



igo HYGIENE 

The amount of energy expended depends very largely on 
the amount of movement. It has been shown by several 
observers, that, if a child cries, the energy given off is greatly 
increased over that expended in the quiescent state. In- 
vestigations made on soldiers showed that even simple 
actions, like sewing on buttons, caused an increased output 
of energy, which, however, was less than that required for 
such actions as scrubbing floors. 

There is a certain minimal amount of energy used up 
even though no active movements are undertaken. The 
heart and lungs and respiratory muscles are only still for 
very short intervals, and are using up fuel continuously. 
Hence, even a person lying in bed has need of food. The 
expenditure of energy when at rest is termed " basal 
metabolism." The increased metabolism when activity 
supervenes depends upon the action taken, and can be 
expressed in calories per square metre of body surface given 
off per hour. This figure for an adult man is about forty. 

The increases in energy requirement with change of 
occupation have been given as 

Occupation.! Increase in basal 

metabolism in per cent. 

Sitting .... .5 

Standing relaxed . . . . .10 

hand on staff . . . .11 

leaning on support ... 3 

,, " attention " .... 14 

All the available energy is not used directly in movement. 
All engines or apparatus using fuel show a heavy loss of the 
total energy, and in many cases the amount actually avail- 
able is not more than 10 per cent, of the total amount. The 
proportion of energy actually used gives the " efficiency " 
of the machine. The body in favourable conditions may 
utilize 30 per cent, of the available energy. 

Allowing for losses, and assuming an efficiency of 25 per 

1 Report on the Food Requirements of Man and their Variations accord- 
ing to Age, Sex, Size, and Occupation. Food (War) Committee of the 
Royal Society. Pub. by Harrison, March 1919, p. 2. 



FOOD AND FEEDING 191 

cent, and 397 calories per square metre of surface 
" basal," the following figures have been obtained l : 



as 



8 hours' sleep at 71-1 (basal metabolism) 
8 hours awake at 92-4 (basal metabolism + 
8 hours' work z (basal metabolism -f- 240 x 
96o) 

Adding for locomotion and travelling . 



30 per cent.) 
4 = 568-8 + 



Calories. 
568-8 
739-2 

1528-8 

2836-8 
300-0 

3136-8 



The proportion of calories required by persons of various 
ages as compared with those required by an adult man have 
been estimated by careful consideration of the requirements 
for growth and of the body surface, and are given as follows 3 : 



Both sexes. l 


Coefficient. 


Utilizable 
Calories. 


0-6 years 










o-5 


1,500 


6-10 ,, 










0-6 


1, 800 


10-13 .. 










0-83 


2,500 


13-20 years (boys) 






, 




I-O 


3,000 


Average man . 






. 




1-0 


3,000 


13-20 years (girls) 










0-83 


2,500 


Average woman 










0-83 


2,500 



Clearly the above are only averages, but they are of value 
in giving the idea of the needs of the child during the years 
of rapid growth. 

A number of investigations have been carried out on 
brain-workers, and it would appear that this class of work 
does not call for an appreciable expenditure of energy. But 
other considerations come in involving alterations in dietary 
which is considered on page 197. 

Our knowledge on many points connected with the energy 
requirements is very incomplete and needs further investiga- 
tion. The following charts will, however, be useful as giving 

* Ibid., p. 4 . 

2 As a result of certain calculations it has been assumed that the average 
labourer will perform 102,000 kilogrammetres of work in 8 hours, which 
will require the expenditure of 240 x 4 calories. 

3 Report of Food (War] Committee, p. 15. 



HYGIENE. 




ipoo 



500 



FEET &. INCHES 



201 LBS. 



FIG. 42. Metabolism in calories per day of men engaged for eight hours 
in various industrial pursuits. 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



193 



5.000 
CALS. 



4,500 



4,000 



3J500 



3,000 



12 14.5 16 19 205 22 25 27 30 33 35 40 45 50 KG. 
~ 891 96.1 06 112 M7 122 127 133 137 142 148 155 160 CM. 



2,0 ao 



1,500 



r.ooo 



500 



2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 II 12 13 14 I5YRS. 
2'9.5" 2'M" 3'2" 3' 6" 3'8" 3'IO" 4' 4'" 44" 4'6" 4'6" 4' 10" 5' I 
?7 32 36 41 45 49.5 54.5 60 67 72 SO 66 93 III LBS 

FIG. 43. Metabolism in calories per day of boys from birth to 15 years of age. 






194 HYGIENE 

some idea of the wide differences in output of energy and 
hence of energy requirements under different intensities of 
work by men or activity by boys. 

Important as is the supply of the necessary energy to the 
body, it is only a part of the story of the needs of the organ- 
ism. A dietary which is insufficient in caloric value will be 
inadequate and unsatisfactory, but a diet which is adequate 
as to caloric value may be wholly unsatisfactory from other 
standpoints, and be of a character on which life cannot be 
maintained. 

There must be the admixture of food-stuffs already referred 
to in this chapter, and in addition accessory factors of food 
must be provided. In the following chapter these matters 
will be considered, but it will not be possible to give more 
than an outline of the position. 



CHAPTER XVI 
FOOD AND FEEDING (continued) 

THE CHOICE OF FOOD-STUFFS 

IN the preceding chapter it has been explained that a certain 
minimum amount of fuel is necessary for the repair and 
growth of the body and some idea of the amounts required 
has been given. In ordinary life, however, it is hardly 
possible to be mentally connecting the food-stuffs taken in 
with calories. This can be done at intervals if required, 
since the heat- value of the majority of common food-stuffs 
has been investigated and is known. 

If the diet consisted of one or two food-stuffs the position 
would be very simple, and it would be possible to calculate 
and regulate the precise amount of energy taken in in the 
food. During the early months of life alone is only one 
article of food advisable, namely, milk. Later, after the first 
8 or 9 months, a mixed dietary is necessary, and the reasons 
for this and the kinds of food which should be selected 
require consideration. 

Physiologists and others are not as yet completely in 
agreement as to the extent to which the required energy 
must be obtained from the different classes of food-stuffs. 
All agree, however, that some portion of the diet must 
consist of protein in order that the necessary nitrogen shall 
be provided. Some one or more food-stuffs containing 
protein must therefore form a part of the diet. 

The chief animal foods which contain protein are meat, 
including game of all kinds, fish, eggs, cheese and milk. All 
the ordinary vegetable food-stuffs contain a little protein, but 

195 



196 HYGIENE 

in very much smaller amounts per pound than is the case 
with animal foods. 

The exception is the case of cereals where the total protein 
equals that found in some of the animal foods. But it is 
not enough that the mere quantity of protein should be 
taken. All proteins are not equally suitable for food, both 
on account of their composition and of the capacity or 
incapacity of the alimentary canal to make use of them. 

Proteins are built up of a large number of bodies known as 
amino-acids. These acids contain the group NH 2 , and it is 
this group which provides the nitrogen for the body. But 
the grouping of the nitrogen with the other atoms of carbon, 
oxygen, and hydrogen are of infinite variety, and each pro- 
tein molecule contains not merely a great number of amino- 
acid radicles, but a great variety of the amino-acids them- 
selves. It has been shown repeatedly by animal experiments 
that there are certain amino-acids which are essential to life, 
and which must be taken in in the diet. The complex 
protein molecule is broken down by the digestive processes 
and the amino-acids are liberated and absorbed. They then 
circulate in the blood-stream, and the tissues select the 
amino-acids they require. Certain organs need special 
radicles which they take up and utilize. A good example is 
that of an amino-acid termed tryptophane, which is almost 
certainly required by the thyroid gland for the performance 
of its functions. If this acid be not provided in the diet, 
then health suffers or disease supervenes. 

Fortunately, although the proteins vary widely in their 
number of radicles of different acids, the majority of pro- 
teins contain the essential ones, although some food-stuffs 
are undoubtedly more suitable than others. Thus maize is 
deficient in two important acids, but it need not for this 
reason be regarded as an unsuitable food, only it must not be 
the sole source of protein. Taken together with other foods, 
it forms a valuable source of energy and of nitrogen. Again, 
gelatin is a protein, but it lacks three of the essential amino- 
acids. Hence, although digested, and its cleavage products 
absorbed, it fails to maintain life. A varied dietary ensures 



FOOD AND FEEDING 197 

the sufficiency of the needful amino-acids, since these are 
found, although in varying proportions, in the majority of 
proteins. 

Protein has another effect on the body apart from its 
value as a source of fuel. It is a direct stimulator of meta- 
bolism, and brings about an increased heat production. This 
heat production is independent of the heat produced by 
muscular effort at the same time, and is a direct effect of the 
protein. Hence protein is said to have a " specific dynamic " 
action. This action is of considerable practical significance 
and should be properly understood by anyone making up 
dietaries. In a cold climate, where conditions of life may 
render it advisable for extra heat to be produced, protein is 
a valuable food-stuff. On the other hand, in hot climates, 
when the body has or may have considerable difficulty in 
getting rid of its heat, protein should be partaken of sparingly 
and primarily as a supply of nitrogen. The sedentary 
worker requires more protein than the manual worker. 
Thus persons whose employment prevents them from taking 
exercise and therefore from having an increased heat- 
production, are able on a rather full protein diet to maintain 
their body temperature without as much exercise as would 
otherwise be necessary. It must, however, not be supposed 
that a heavy protein diet replaces exercise for the body as 
a whole. 

It appears, from the results of numerous investigations, 
that protein is not utilized for muscular work. Careful 
observations have shown no increase in the nitrogen output 
in the urine, even after severe bodily exercise. Except 
within certain narrow limits nitrogen is not stored in the 
body, but is either utilized or discarded. Man cannot live 
on a protein diet alone, although a dog can do so. A high 
or excessive protein content in the food results in retention 
of parts of the protein molecule other than those associated 
with the nitrogen atoms. It has been shown that there 
is considerable retention of carbon with a high protein 
dietary, and that this is probably stored in the body in the 
form of either glucose or glycogen. It is also possible that 



198 HYGIENE 

fat may be derived from protein, but if this is so it is probably 
accomplished via the formation of glucose. 

In practice, apart from the above considerations, a high 
protein dietary usually results in intestinal disturbances, 
and the health of the individual is affected thereby. 

It is impossible to lay down a precise proportion of the 
total food which should consist of protein, since this will 
evidently vary with work and climate. Roughly, however, 
it seems probable that it should be about 70-80 grammes or 
2J-3 ozs. a day for the average man. The protein should 
not be all animal protein nor all vegetable protein, but a 
mixture. If a large proportion is taken as vegetable protein, 
then some authorities consider that not less than 100 
grammes of protein should be taken per day, of which 30 
grammes should be animal protein and 70 grammes vege- 
table protein. 

Seventy to eighty grammes of protein would be contained 
approximately in any of the following l : 

2 Ibs. bread, 
i Ib. 2 ozs. meat, 
10 ozs. cheese, or 
10 eggs. 

In practice in this country it is probable that the actual 
amounts of protein eaten would be considerably above these 
figures, and would be taken as to no less than one-half of 
it in bread, nearly one-half in animal food of one kind or 
another, and most of the remainder in cheese. Those who 
can afford it probably take well on towards iJ-2 times 
the amount of protein actually needed. No special budgets 
for working-men alone apart from their families seem to 
have been made out, and such as have been investigated 
are usually taken from very poor families. The following 
may be regarded as being rather below than above the 
amounts taken by all working-men who can afford to pay 
for so much protein. 

1 Report of the Food (War) Committee, p. 18. 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



199 





Grammes 
weight. 


Protein, 
per cent. 


Grammes, 
protein. 


Calories. 


Breakfast : 










Porridge (iozs. oatmeal) 


43 


13-4 


5'6 


= 23-0 


Bacon (2 ozs.) 


57 


9-6 


5'4 


= 22-1 


/Egg (say 2 ozs.) . 
X Or sausage (2 ozs.) 


(5 5 7 I 


12-8 
(12-6) 


7'3 
(7-2) 


= 3' 
= (29-5) 


Bread (6 ozs.) 


171 


7-1 


I2-I 


= 50-0 nearly 


Main Meal : 










Meat (10 ozs.) 


285 


Say 13-0 


36-0 


= 147-6 






(or at 










15-01) 


( 4 I-6) 


= (170-6) 


Potatoes (8 ozs.) . 


228 


1-9 


4-5 


= 18-4 


Flour in pudding (4 ozs.) . 


112 


IO-O 


IX-2 


= 46-0 


Suet ,, ,, (count as 










fat) .... 














Third Meal : 










Cheese (i oz.) 


28-5 


25-1 


7-1 


= 29-1 


Bread (10 ozs.) 


285-0 


7-1 


2O-2 


= 82-8 








109-4 


449'Q 






The above dietary is that allowed, as far as protein is 
concerned, by the Army. It is believed that it is often 
exceeded in the civilian population. The weight of meat 
and of cheese is probably on the low side for that which 
would be given at a meal by a good restaurant for working 
men, especially in works canteens. The figures are merely 
intended to give some idea of the form in which the daily 
protein is taken in by the average man. Taking figures of 
energy requirements of the Food (War) Committee (cp. p. 191), 
56-64 grammes of protein would be required by a woman, 
or just about one-half of total amount of protein-containing 
food-stuffs as given above. 

The bread as given above amounts to just over 6 Ibs. a 
week, an amount very commonly eaten by a working- 
woman. It may also be mentioned that what would be 
sold as a good beefsteak for a working-man will weigh 
over J Ib. and may easily reach i Ib. or more. A small 
mutton chop will ordinarily weigh not less than 5 or 6 ozs. 
The weight of a " chop " may, however, easily reach 8 or 

1 If the meat is lean the protein content will be raised. 



200 HYGIENE 

10 ozs. if of large size and thickly cut. In addition, the 
other adjuncts which are necessary in a complete dietary 
would supply further small amounts of protein. The food- 
stuffs taken for the above calculations will include materials 
such as fats and carbohydrates, salts and other food factors ; 
but the requirements of the body in regard to these are 
here temporarily disregarded. They are considered below. 

If 4'i calories per gramme be taken as the fair average 
for a protein in a mixed dietary, then 70-80 grammes of 
protein will yield 287-328 calories, or about T Vth of the 
total required. If as much as 109*4 grammes of protein be 
taken the calories will be 449*0, or just under |th of the 
total requirements. 

It is theoretically possible to obtain all the protein 
required from vegetarian food-stuffs, but it is difficult to 
take sufficient to supply the body with nitrogen. The 
nitrogen must be present in a digestible form, and one 
which the organism can utilize fairly readily. For example, 
in vegetables, with their low protein content, a very great 
bulk must be taken in order to satisfy the needs of the 
body. The bulk may be so great that an individual accus- 
tomed to a varied dietary could not possibly eat it the 
stomach and intestines could not deal with it. Again, it 
may be taken in a form so assimilable as to have little or 
no residue, as would be the case with milk. This again, 
while satisfactory from the point of view of theoretical 
metabolism, does not suit the alimentary canal, which is 
an important matter for the medical man and the hygienist. 
The need for a residue in the food is great, and is considered 
more fully in Chapter XVIII. 

Fat is taken in part with the meat, and also in other 
vegetable and animal fats. The amount of fat varies 
greatly with the nature of the meat, and with the part of 
the animal from which it is derived. Certain parts con- 
stantly contain a higher proportion of fat than others. The 
percentage of fat in meat varies from 8 to 20, or even up to 
30 for fat parts of mutton and pork. Eggs contain nearly 
as high a percentage of fat as of protein. Milk usually 



FOOD AND FEEDING 201 

contains 3 per cent., but the dairy products butter and 
cheese are very rich in fat. Butter is about 80 per cent, 
fat, and cheese about 32 per cent. Cream should contain from 
about 16 to 20 per cent, of fat. Fish is relatively poor in 
fat as compared with other animal foods ; the white fish, 
except halibut, contain almost negligible quantities, but a 
good deal is found in the coloured fishes such as salmon, 
herring, and mackerel. Butter has of late years been 
replaced in great measure by margarine, which is a mixture 
of vegetable and some animal fats (cp. p. 206). Dripping, 
lard, and suet contain only small quantities of any other 
substance than fat. 

In addition to the fat eaten in meat and as butter or 
margarine, a not inconsiderable amount is used in cooking. 
For example, plain pastry and suet puddings contain not 
less than half as much fat as flour, although pastry is 
commonly regarded as mainly a carbohydrate food. Fat 
is also used in cakes in varying amounts, and is used in 
cooking in small quantities in a variety of other ways. 

The Food (War) Committee suggests that 25 per cent, of 
the total energy requirements of the body should be taken 
as fat. It is not possible to state precisely the necessary 
amounts, since within limits fats and carbohydrates are 
interchangeable in the body, so that excess of the one 
variety will supply the deficiency of the other. Fat may 
be taken as providing on the average 9*3 calories per gramme. 
If 750 calories (J of 3,000) may be regarded as a reasonable 



amount of energy to be provided by fats, then 252 O r 80 

j 3 

grammes of fat are required in the day that is, 3 ozs. nearly 
(taking 28*5 grammes = i .oz.). Experience has shown 
that the amount of fat may be increased with advantage 
when heavy work is being undertaken. Fat yields over 
twice as many calories per gramme as either protein or 
carbohydrate, and this forms a good food-stuff especially 
for work in cold weather or in cold climates. All vegetables 
contain a little fat, which in some of the cereals and pulses 
may amount to 2 or 3 per cent. 



202 



HYGIENE 



Before the war J Ib. of butter was reckoned as the ordinary 
requirement per head in a household for all purposes, 
including use for cooking, but not providing all the fat 
required, suet, dripping, and lard being available as well. 

Taking the articles of diet already considered for the intake 
of protein, the following rough estimate of the total calories 
obtained from the fat can be made : 



Food. 


Amount. 


Grammes. 


Percentage 
of fat. 


Grammes 
of fat. 


Calories. 


Rolled oats . 


I OZS. 


42-7 


6-6 


2-8 


= 26-04 


Bacon . 


2 OZS. 


57-o 


64-0 


36-5 


= 339-45 


Egg . 


2 OZS. 


57-o 


n-4 


6-5 


= 60-45 


Meat . 


10 OZS. 


285-0 


15-0 












(approx.) 


37-7 


= 35-6i 


Suet pudding, one 


ij ozs. fat 


35-6 


75-o 


27-0 


= 251-1 


helping 






(approx.) 


(nearly) 






4 ozs. flour 


114-0 


1-4 


1-6 


= 14-88 


Cheese . 


I OZ. 


28-5 


32-0 


9-1 


84-63 


Butter or margarine 


I OZ. 


28-5 


80-0 


22-8 


= 212-04 










144-0 


1339-2 



In these articles of food the grammes of fat are found to be 
144-0, or nearly twice as many as those estimated to be 
necessary. If the bacon is left out altogether and the butter 
reduced to J oz. per diem the total is still in excess of the 
requirements. Taking the average amounts for a woman to 
be -83 that for a man, the calories which should be obtained 
from fat would then be 622. The above amounts of food 
could therefore be reduced by more than one-half. Even 
so some of the fat energy could be made up by carbohydrates, 
so that a still further reduction would be permissible. 
During the war, when meat, bacon, lard, butter, and 
margarine were all strictly rationed, it is probable that the 
allowance of fat was down to, if not somewhat below, the 
minimal requirements, especially as all fats are not of equal 
value from the nutritional standpoint, apart from their 
energy value. The carbohydrate available was also re- 
stricted voluntarily, so that there was not full possible 
interchangeability. 

Carbohydrates form a very important part of the dietary 



FOOD AND FEEDING 203 

in most countries. They are at once the cheapest form of 
food and are also the form in which energy required for 
muscular work is most readily made available. All cereals 
and pulses contain a high proportion of starch, which is 
converted into sugar (glucose) by the digestive juices. It 
can also be derived from protein by transformation in the 
body. Sugar is stored up in the liver and muscles in the 
form of glycogen, and is continually being used up in the 
course of muscular activity. The figure for energy value 
is the same as for protein, namely, 4-1 calories per gramme. 
Taking the total calories necessary at 3,000, of which 300 
should be in protein, 750 in fat, then the remaining 1,750 
calories have to be provided by carbohydrates. The manual 
worker probably takes the greater part of the calories in 
bread or flour and potato. One pound of bread yields 1,195 
calories, and few manual workers will eat appreciably less 
than i Ib. of bread a day. The remaining 555 calories will 
readily be made up on other foods. Seven pounds of 
potatoes in the week is not excessive for women doing 
domestic work, so that at least the same, namely, one pound 
per day, will almost certainly be taken by a man. This 
will yield over 400 calories. The remaining 150 will be 
more than made up in the use of sugar in tea or for cooking, 
flour in pastries, puddings, and cakes, and starch in vege- 
tables, fruits, nuts, etc. The amount of carbohydrates in 
fruits is considerable, and in dried fruits may exceed 60 
per cent., while in nuts it varies from 10-37 P er cent., 
according to the variety. It seems probable that a large 
number of people take in a greater number of calories than 
is required. The brain-worker will usually eat less carbo- 
hydrate, since he does not require it for muscular energy. 

Salts are also essential to life, and are present in all 
food-stuffs. The body requires a great variety both of basic 
and acid-radicles, but the precise quantity required is 
unknown. It is probable that vastly larger amounts of 
salts are taken in than are actually required. The nature 
of the salts differs in different food-stuffs. Some are deficient 
in one variety, others in another. Safety and sufficiency 



204 HYGIENE 

of all kinds of salts is secured by a mixed dietary even at 
the expense of some waste and excess of the salts. Too 
much of any one kind of salt, if taken as a separate item, 
may readily be injurious, and a large amount of common 
salt in addition to the salts present in the food-stuffs them- 
selves is not required. A little salt helps to bring out the 
flavour and to make the food palatable and is generally 
advisable ; but it is sometimes taken in excessive quantities 
at the table. Water is present in all food- stuffs in varying 
amounts, but there is not enough for the bodily needs, and 
fluid must be taken as a beverage (cp. Chapter XIV). 

It seemed desirable to give some information as to the 
composition of the commoner food-stuffs, together with 
their caloric values and cost. Such figures were prepared 
by Lusk in relation to American food and food prices, but 
have not hitherto been available for England. 

These have now been adapted by Professor Mottram, 
who has kindly allowed their publication (see below), together 
with an explanatory note written by him. 

He says : " It is carefully to be understood that the 
following tables are intended as a guide to economy in dietary 
only, i.e. to show which foods are dear, and which cheap, 
as sources of (a) energy, (b) protein. 

" The usual fundamental assumptions made in dietaries 
are : 

" (i) that a definite number of calories is essential per 

day, 3,000 for a man in a sedentary occupation, 

and 2,500 for a woman. 
" (2) that 30 grammes at least of animal protein with 

sufficient vegetable protein to make up altogether 

100 grammes a day are essential. 

" As regards these assumptions it may be stated that it is 
certain that some people can exist on a smaller caloric ration, 
and that further research may show that some vegetable 
proteins are as good as animal proteins. Already we know, 
e.g., that potato and pea-nut proteins are as good, or nearly 
as good, as cow milk proteins, but until research on the 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



205 



distribution of amino-acids in proteins is more complete, 
until the biological value of the different proteins is more 
worked out, assumptions such as the above must hold the 
field. And not until strong, convincing proof from biological 
laboratories has been obtained to the contrary, dare we 
modify them. They are on the safe and conservative 
side. 

"The costs, therefore, of obtaining 1,000 calories, or 30 
grammes animal protein or 70 grammes vegetable protein, 
are the ones given. 

"One word concerning the prices quoted is essential. 
They were collected in the neighbourhood of Campden Hill 
early in 1921. They represent in many cases ' rock-bottom ' 
prices. Some since then have altered. But this alteration 
does not matter, for it is easy to recalculate the new figure. 
If ribs of beef rise from 1/6 a Ib. to 2/-, the cost per 1,000 
calories or 30 grammes of beef protein rises 33 per cent., 
6d. being 33 per cent, of 1/6." 

PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION OF COMMON FOOD-STUFFS AND COST OF 1,000 CALORIES 

AND PROTEIN RATION 





Waste. 


Pro- 
tein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hy- 
drates. 


Cals. 
per Ib. 


Cost 
perlb. 


Cost per 
1,000 calories. 


Cost protein 
ration (i.e 
30 grammes). 


Beef : 


















Ribs . 


20-8 


13-5 


2O-O 





1,13 


1/6 


1/4 


8|cf. 


Round (lean) 


8-1 


18-9 


6-9 





675 




2/ 2 f 


6Jrf. 


,, medium 


7-2 


18-4 


12-2 





895 


M 


2/~ 


6*d. 


fat 


12-0 


17-0 


15-3 





I.OOO 


M 


1/6 


7^. 


Suet . 





4-6 


77.7 





3,440 






2/2 


Atora . 














1/8* 








Lamb : 
















Leg . .1 17.4 
Shoulder . 20-3 


15-4 
14-0 


12-9 

22-4 


z 


865 
1,245 


u 


1/4* 
nfa. 


6rf. 


Loin . 


! 4 -8 


15-5 


22-9 





1,295 


J 


iofd. 


6d. ' 


Mutton : 


















Leg . 


18-4 


14-6 


I4-0 





895 


1/4-1/6 


1/6-1/8 


7 j_8|rf. 


Loin . 
Shoulder 


16-0 

22-5 


13-1 
13-3 


14-7 


z 


1,420 
900 


1/6 


I/Of 


gd. 


Neck . 


27.4 


n-9 


I7'O 





97 


1/3 


i/i* 


8d. 


Pork : 


















Loin . 


19-7 


13-0 


23-0 





1,250 





___ 


__ 


Smoked bacon 


7'7 


8-8 


59'i 





2,720 


3/4 


I/2f 


2/6 


ham 13-6 


I3'8 


3i-7 





1,640 









206 



HYGIENE 





Waste. 


Pro- 
tein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hy- 
drates. 


Cals. 
per Ib. 


Cost 
per Ib. 


Cost per 
i.ooo calories 


Cost protein 
ration (i.e. 
30 grammes). 


Fish : 


















Cod . 


29-9 


10-8 


O-2 





225 


9d. 


3/- 


5\d. 


Cod steak . 


9-2 


16-5 


0-5 





350 


iod. 


2/4^ 


qd. 


Haddock . 


51-0 


8-1 


0-2 





170 











Halibut 


17-7 


14-8 


4-2 





475 











Mackerel 


447 


9'9 


4-0 





37 


8d.-gd. 


1/9^-2/lJ 


5%d.-6d. 


Sm. herring . 


44*4 


19-9 


8-4 





760 


iod. 


I/- 


3k^-~3^d. 


















Protein ration, 


















70 grammes. 


Sugar . 
Treacle . 








~ 


100 

70 


,790 
,255 


gd.-g^d. 
iod. 


8d. 


1 


Maple sugar . 
Tapioca . 
Sago 





O-I 

1-4 





71 

88 

78 


,270 
,685 
,665 


iod. 
iod. 


6d. 

6d. 


. 

\Cost pro- 
/ hibitive. 


















Protein ration, 


Dairy foods : 
















30 grammes. 


Eggs . 


II-2 


"5 


8-8 





615 


3/~ 


4/ IO J 


I/8fd. 














(8 to lib.) 






Whole milk . 





3' 2 


3-8 


5-0 


310 


4%d. 


1/2 


Q\d. 


Condensed 


















milk 





8-5 


7-9 


54-i 


1,460 











Cheese 





25-1 


32-0 


2-4 


1,885 


1/8 


io^d. 


5^d. 


Butter 





I-O 


80-8 




3,4io 


3/4 


i/- 


} 


Animal fat "4 
Margarine J 


_ 


1-2 


78-9 





3,315 


1/6 


6d. 


! Cost pro- 
1 hibitive. 


Vegetablefatl 
Margarine J 





ass 


ume 


the sa 


me 


I/- 


< A . 


J 


















Protein ration, 


Cornflour meal, 
















70 grammes. 


etc. . 


. 


5-7 


1-2 


73-77 


1625-50 


iod. 


6d.-6%d. 


2/7-1/10 


Oatmeal 


. 




6-6 


65-2 


i,795 


^d. 


2%d. 


4%d. 


Rice 





T 6-5 


0-3 


76-9 


1,610 


"l\d. 


4fd. 


I /5l 


Rye 





5*3 


0-8 


76-9 


1,610 


. 








Wholemeal . 





10-7 


1-7 


70-9 


1,645 











White flour . 





10-3 


1-4 


70-7 


1,640 


5/3 per 


2$d. 


6%d. 














14 Ibs. 






(Highest 


















quality) 
Macaroni 





8-7 
10-4 


0-9 
0-8 


73-6 
73-o 


1,620 
1,640 





T\d. 


i/5i 


Spaghetti 





9-4 


0-4 




1,640 


i/- 


j\d. 


i/9t 


Bread, Brown . 





4-2 


1-6 


46-2 


1,035 


4 d. 


3%d. 


1/2^ 


,, Graham 





6-9 


1-6 


51-3 


1,185 


4 d. 


3K 


8|rf. 


White . 





7-1 


1-2 


52-3 


1,195 


3^- 


3^d. 


8^d. 


Biscuits . 





Run 


from 


1850- 


1920 


i/4-i/io 


8%d.-io$d. 





Vegetables : 


















Asparagus 





1-3 


O-2 


3'3 


95 


2/6 


26/4 


26/6 


Scarlet runner 


7-0 


1-7 


o-3 


7-2 


1 80 











White beans 




15-8 


1-6 


59-9 


1,530 


3d.-6d. 


2d.- 4 d. 


3^.-6^. 


Beets . 


20-0 


I-O 


O-I 


7'4 


1 60 


3d. 


i/6f 


-3/io 


Cabbage . . 


15-0 


i-i 


0-2 


4'7 


"5 




2 / 2 i 


3/6 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



207 





Waste. 


Pro- 
tein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hy- 
orates. 


Cals. 
per Ib. 


Cost 
per Ib. 


Cost per 
1,000 calories. 


Cost protein 
ration (i.e. 
70 grammes). 


Vegetables : 


















Carrots 


2O'O 


0-8 


O-2 


7-1 


155 


2d. 


I/I 


3/2* 


Cauliflower . 





i-3 


o-5 


4'7 


135 


4d. 


2/6 


3/n 


Celery . 


2O-O 


0-7 


O-I 


2-6 


65 


3d. 


3/1 


5M 


Cucumber . 


15-0 


o-5 


O-2 


2-6 


65 








. 


Lettuce 


15-0 


0-7 


O-2 


2-5 


7 











Onions 


IO-O 


1*1 


o-3 


8-6 


195 


2d.-3d. 


io^.-i/3i 


2/4*-3/8i 


Parsnips 


20-0 


I-O 


0-4 


10-4 


230 


2d. 


8$d. 


2/7 


Peas (dried) 





17-3 


0-9 


62-5 


1,580 


6d. 


3K 


Std. 


(green) 


45-o 


2-7 


O-2 


9-6 


235 









Potatoes 


2O-O 


i-3 


O-I 


14-2 


295 


id. 


6|<2. 


i/nf 


Radishes 


30-0 


0-7 


O-I 


3'9 


90 










Rhubarb 


40-0 


o-3 


0-4 


2-1 


60 





. 





Spinach 





1-6 


o-3 


3'2 


TOO 


6d. 


5/- 


3/4 


Tomatoes 





0-7 


0-4 


3-8 


IOO 


lod. 


8/4 


18/4 


Turnips 


30-0 


0-7 


O-I 


5'5 


120 


i|i. 


i/- 


2/9 


Fruits : 


















Apples 


25 


o-3 


o-3 


9.7 


195 


5d.-6d. 


2/lf-2/6f 


21/7-25/9 


Bananas 


35 


0-6 


0-4 


13-0 


265 


8d. 


2/6 


i7/~ 


Blackberries 




I-O 


0-9 


9-9 


235 










Cherries 


5-o 


0-7 


0-7 


14-4 


305 











Currants 


? 


1-2 




n-6 


230 


. 








Figs (green) . 





1-2 





17-0 


330 











Grapes 


25-0 


0-8 


i-i 


I3-I 


300 


1/6 


51- 


35/- 


Bilberries . 





o-5 


o-5 


14-9 


300 








Lemons 


30-0 


o-5 


0-4 


5'4 


125 


47. 


2/8 


io/3i 


Oranges 


27-0 


o-5 


O-I 


7-6 


150 


6d. 


3/4 


i5/5i 


Pears . 


IO'O 


0-4 


0-4 


n-4 


230 









Plums . 


5-o 


0-7 




17-3 


325 











Strawberries 


5-o 


0-7 


o-5 


6-4 


150 


i/- 


6/8 


21/3 


Dried Fruits : 


















Currants 





1-9 


i'5 


67-0 


,315 


lod. 


7i<*- 


6/9i 


Dates . 


10-0 


1*5 


2-2 


63-6 


,275 


6d. 


4 rf. 


5/ii; 


Figs . 





3'4 


o-3 


67-0 


,290 


lod. 


lid. 


3/9i 


Raisins 


IO-O 


1-8 


2-7 


61-8 


,270 


*/- 


9ld. 


s/x ; 


Prunes 


15-0 


1-4 




56-1 


,045 


lod. 


9$d. 


9/2^. 



COST OF 1,000 CALORIES 



haricot 



zd.-4d. Oatmeal, 2%d. ; white flour, 2f d. ; bread, 3^.-3 

beans, 2^-4^. ; dried peas, $%d. 
4d.-6d. Vegetable margarine, 4^. ; dates, 4%d. ; sugar, 5^. ; suet, $%d. ; 

animal margarine, 6d. ; tapioca and sago, 6d. ; cornflour, 6d. 
6d.-8d. Potatoes, 6|^. ; dried currants, j^d. ; spaghetti and macaroni, 

7%d. ; figs, j$d. ; treacle, 8^. 

8^.-io^. Biscuits, 8%d.-io$d. ; parsnips, 8$d. ; raisins and prunes, g$d. 
lod.-i/-. Onions, 10^. ; cheese, 10^. ; loin of Canterbury lamb, xofd. ; 

shoulder, nd. ; butter, i/- ; kippers and turnips, i/-. 
1/0-1/6. Loin of mutton; i/of ; carrots, i/i ; neck of mutton, i/i; milk, 

1/2 ; bacon, i/2| ; ribs of beef (lean), 1/4 ; leg of Canterbury lamb, 

i/4 ; fat round of beef, 1/6 ; leg of mutton, 1/6. 



208 HYGIENE 

I/6-2/-. Beets, i/6f ; shoulder of mutton, 1/7; mackerel, i/gj. 
2 /-3/-- Moderately fat round of beef, 2/- ; ditto lean, 2/a| ; cod steaks, 

2 /4i apples, 2/i-2/6f ; cabbage, 2/2^ ; cauliflower and bananas, 

2/6 ; lemons, 2/8. 
At or above 3/-. Cod (whole), 3/- ; oranges, 3/4 ; celery, 3/10 ; eggs, 

4/io ; grapes, 5/- ; strawberries, 6/8 ; tomatoes, 8/4 ; asparagus, 

26/4. 

COST OF 30 GRAMMES ANIMAL OR 70 GRAMMES VEGETABLE PROTEIN 
2d.-<\d. Haricot beans, 3^. ; smoked herring, 3^d.^d. ; cod steaks, 4^. 
4d.-6d. Oatmeal, 4$d. ; cheese, 5\d. ; cod, $%d. ; dried peas, 5%d. ; 

mackerel, $%d. 6d. ; H. beans, 6d. ; leg and loin of lamb, 6d. 
6d.-8d. Round of beef (lean), 6d. ; ditto medium, and shoulder of lamb, 

6%d. ; white flour, 6$d. ; round of beef (fat), jd. ; leg of mutton, jd. 
Sd.-iod. Mutton leg and neck, 8d. ; white bread, 8d. ; biscuits, 8d. ; 

shoulder, 8^. ; ribs of beef, 8|df. ; Graham bread, 8|rf. ; mutton 

(loin), gd. ; milk, g%d. 
lod.-i/. Biscuits, io^d. 

1/0-1/6. Brown bread, i/2f ; rice and macaroni, i/sf. 
!/5_ 2 /-. Eggs, i/8| ; spaghetti, i/gf ; cornflour meal, i/io ; potatoes, 

i/nf. 
2/0-3/0. Suet, 2/2 ; onions, 2/4^ ; bacon, 2/6 ; cornflour, 2/7 ; parsnips, 

2/7 ; turnips, 2/9. 
Above 3/-. Carrots, 3/2^ ; spinach, 3/4 ; cabbage, 3/6 ; onions, 

dried figs, 3/9f ; beets, 3/10 ; cauliflower, 3/1 1. 
Above 5/-. Dried dates, 5/if ; celery, 5/6^. 
Above 6/-. Dried currants, 6/9jd. 
Above 8/-. Dried raisins, 8/iJ. 
Above 9/ . Dried prunes, 9/2^. 
Above io/-. Lemons, 10/3^. 

Above i5/-. Oranges, 15/5^ ; bananas, iy/- ; tomatoes, 18/9. 
Above 20/-. Apples, 21/7-25/9 ; strawberries, 21/3 ; grapes, 35/-. 



CHAPTER XVII 
FOOD AND FEEDING (continued) 

ACCESSORY FOOD FACTORS 

IT is now necessary to turn to another aspect of diets which 
has arisen during the last few years, following on the dis- 
covery of the occurrence of diseases when certain substances 
are deficient in the diet. These substances are termed 
vitamines, and, so far as is known at present, three separate 
varieties occur. The results obtained by experiment and 
the application of experimental results to men living under 
artificial conditions, such as is the case with armies and 
navies, have been almost dramatic in their success. 

Seeing that we have recently passed through a terrible war, 
and that its effects are still rampant in certain parts of 
Europe, it is not surprising that there should have been a 
great deal both said and written on this subject. Before 
considering the attention which should be given to these 
bodies, it will be well to see what is known of them. 

The first intimation of the importance of these bodies was 
obtained by the experiments of Hopkins, 1 who fed rats on 
a dietary of pure food-stuffs namely, purified protein, carbo- 
hydrates, fats, salts, and water. The rats did not grow 
on this dietary ; but if so small an amount as 2 c.c. of milk 
was added, they grew normally. The remarkable differences 
in the increase of weight are shown in fig. 44. 

The first one to be discovered was that now known as 
" fat-soluble A," or vitamine A. The term was given to it 
because it is found attached to fats. It would seem that the 
animal body cannot itself manufacture this substance, but 
must obtain it from plants, or from the flesh of another 
animal that lives upon plants. On the other hand, the seeds 

1 Journal of Physiology,' 1912, vol. 44, p. 433. 
14 209 



210 



HYGIENE 



of plants are, as a whole, not rich in fat-soluble A, although 
the amount varies with the grain. The germ of the grain 
appears to contain the major part. The vegetable oils and 
fats are poor in this body, and, curiously, lard, although an 
animal fat, is very poor in this substance. 

The nature of this body is entirely unknown, and its 
presence or absence from any food or diet can only be 



10 



50 




\ 



" o 20 10 

Time in days. 

FIG. 44. The lower curve shows the progress of six rats fed on 
artificial diet alone, and the upper one that of six similar rats fed 
on the same diet, with 2 c.c. of milk a day in addition. 

determined by animal experiment. The effect of fat- soluble 
A is most marked in connection with growth, and, whatever 
body it may prove to be, is clearly an essential element in 
the promotion of growth. Young rats fed on a diet in 
which it is deficient do not grow, and will finally die, and 
children and puppies suffer in its absence. Adults, however, 
seem to require small amounts of this substance, but little 
is known precisely. 



FOOD AND FEEDING 211 

The appearance of animals fed on diets with and without 
the vitamine A is also shown in fig. 45. 

Similar experiments have now been carried out in great 
numbers, both in this country and in America, and there 
can be no question of the importance of the accessory food 
factors. Mellanby, 1 working with dogs, has shown that if 
fat-soluble A be not provided, the puppies become rickety. 
The problem with dogs is, however, not quite so simple as 
the above statement seems to suggest. A great deal 
depends on the balancing of the food material in the dietary. 
In all animal experiments it is unwise, and often incorrect, 
to apply the results obtained, without modification, to the 
human species. It cannot as yet be stated that rickets in 




FIG. 45. Showing the effect of feeding rats on dietaries without or 
with vitamine A. (McCollum.) 

children is produced by the absence of the body above 
mentioned, although the addition of it to the dietary will 
aid in effecting a cure. Cod-liver oil is rich in fat-soluble A, 
and has for many years been used in cases of rickets (cp. 
also Chapter XXVI). Its value was believed to be due to the 
fact that it was a fat, but it was realized that other fats did 
not answer the purpose so well. Fish fats are found to be 
especially rich in this factor, which is presumably derived 
from the sea flora and fauna eaten by the fishes, since it is 
not believed that it is produced by the animal kingdom. 

Milk has been extensively used in experiments for pro- 
viding fat-soluble A in the diet, and, as a result, a great 
demand has been made for the inclusion of milk as an 

1 Medical Research Council Report, No. 38, and other publications. 



212 HYGIENE 

essential article of diet in the food of children. The occur 
rence of the accessory food factors, so far as is known at the 
present time, is shown in the tables l at the end of this 
chapter ; and the question of their place in the feeding of 
infants and children is discussed in later chapters. 

This factor appears not to be destroyed by temperatures 
ordinarily employed in the processes of cooking, although 
it is destroyed gradually by prolonged heating, and rapidly 
by oxidation. 

A second vitamine is that known as water-soluble B, or 
vitamine B. This body is attached to lactose in milk, and 
is therefore left behind when the cream with its fat-soluble A 
is removed. It is found almost universally and plentifully 
in the vegetable kingdom, and is found also in animal food. 
It is apparently obtained by animals from plants, as in the 
case of fat-soluble A. A deficiency of this factor has been 
shown to produce beri-beri in man, and poly-neuritis in 
birds. The disease occurs in countries where the diet is 
monotonous and is deficient in this factor. The well-known 
case is that of the Malay Peninsula, where the inhabitants 
eat polished rice as their main diet. The germ and the 
layer of cells just inside the husk contain water-soluble B, 
but these are removed in the process of polishing. 

This food factor is believed to be resistant to heat as 
ordinarily employed in cooking, but tends to be destroyed 
in temperatures commonly used in the sterilization of tinned 
foods. The universality of its distribution renders very 
unlikely any shortage of it in an ordinary mixed dietary in 
this country. The distribution of this factor in various 
food-stuffs so far investigated is shown in the table at the 
end of this chapter. 

The third factor is that known as the anti-scorbutic factor, 
or vitamine C. Scurvy is a disease which attracted atten- 
tion in connection with prolonged sea- voyages of days gone 
by, when the men were frequently away from land for 
several weeks, and lived on dried foods. It is not possible 
here to say more than that it was found that lime-juice, 

i Taken from the Medical Research Council Report, No. 38, pp. 102-3. 



FOOD AND FEEDING 213 

made from Mediterranean limes, properly prepared, and 
given out as a part of the daily ration, completely 
prevented the occurrence of scurvy. Of recent years the 
study of scurvy has been taken up experimentally, and 
the war added impetus to the investigations. There have 
been many cases of scurvy in expeditions, or in camps 
where the conditions of the food-stuffs were unfavour- 
able, and it is believed that the disease is due to the 
absence from the food, or to the destruction, of a special 
body which is present in large amounts in fresh fruits and 
vegetables. The nature of the body is unknown, and it has 
never been isolated. It is, in fact, apparently destroyed by 
desiccation, especially if the process be gradual. It seems 
to be less resistant to heat than the other factors, although 
little is known of its resistance to temperatures below 100 C. 
Nearly all the experimental work has been undertaken 
with material which has been heated for an hour at 100- 
120 C., temperatures not used in the ordinary household 
for prolonged periods. At the present time, as far as the 
usual mixed diet is concerned, it may be said that fresh or 
lightly cooked fruit and vegetables should form a part of 
any satisfactory dietary on account of the presence of this 
food factor. This has been realized on other grounds for 
many years. The question of this factor in infant feeding 
is considered in Chapter XXVII. 

It is hoped that enough has been said to demonstrate the 
immense importance of a mixed dietary from the point of 
view of nutrition. Certain other features bearing on this 
are considered in Chapter XXVI. 

It is not possible to deal with this complicated subject at 
any length, but, while recognizing its importance, the feeding 
experiments on animals should not lead to undue prominence 
being given to bodies of which very little is known. It is 
clear that a mixed dietary is essential, and that food should 
not be cooked longer than to render it safe from infection, 
or palatable to the individual. 

The distribution of the three accessory factors in the 
commoner food-stuffs is shown in the following table: 



214 



HYGIENE 



Classes of food-stuffs. 



Fat-soluble A, 

or anti-rachitic 

factor. 



Water-soluble B, 

or anti-neuritic 

(anti-beri-beri) 

factor. 



Anti-scorbutic 
factor. 



Fats and oils : 

Butter .... 
Cream . . 
Cod-liver oil 

Mutton fat ... 
Beef fat or suet 
Pea-nut or arachis oil 

Lard 

Olive oil . 

Cotton-seed oil . 

Coco-nut oil 

Cocoa-butter 

Linseed oil . 

Fish oil, whale oil, herring 

oil, etc. .... 
Hardened fats, animal or 

vegetable origin 
Margarine prepared from 

animal fat 



Margarine from 
fats or lard . 
Nut butters 



vegetable 



Value in pro- 
portion to 
amount of 
animal fat 
contained 



Meat, fish, etc. : 

Lean meat (beef, mutton, etc.' 
Liver .... 
Kidneys .... 
Heart .... 
Brain .... 
Sweetbreads 
Fish, white 

,, fat (salmon, herring, 

etc.) 

,, roe .... 
Tinned meats . 

Milk, cheese, etc. : 

Milk, cow's whole, raw 
skim 
dried whole 

,, boiled whole 

,, Condensed, sweetened 
Cheese, whole milk 
skim 

Eggs i 

Fresh . . . . 
Dried 



Very slight, 
if any 

Very slight, 
if any 

Very slight 



o 
Less than 

Undeter- 
mined 



Less than + 



? o 
? o 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



215 



Classes of food-stuffs. 



Fat-soluble A, 

or anti-rachitic 

factor. 



Water-soluble B 

or anti-neuritic 

(anti-beri-beri) 

factor. 



Anti-scorbutic 
factor. 



Cereals, pulses, etc. : 

Wheat, maize, rice, whole 
grain . 
Ditto, germ . 
Ditto, bran . 

White wheaten flour, pure 
cornflour, polished rice, etc. 

Custard powders, egg substi- 
tutes, prepared from cereal 
products 

Linseed, millet . 

Dried peas, lentils, etc. 

Peaflour (kilned) 

Soy beans, haricot beans 

Germinated pulses or cereals 

Vegetables and fruits : 
Cabbage, fresh . 

,, cooked 
,, dried . 
,, canned 

Swede, raw, expressed juice 
Lettuce .... 
Spinach (dried) . 
Carrots, fresh raw 

dried . 

Beetroot, raw, expressed juice 
Potatoes, raw 

cooked 

Beans, fresh, scarlet runners, 
raw .... 
Onions, cooked . 
Lemon juice, fresh 

,, ,, preserved 

Lime juice, fresh 

,, preserved . 
Orange juice, fresh 
Raspberries 

Apples .... 
Bananas .... 
Tomatoes (canned) 
Nuts . . . 

Miscellaneous : 
Yeast, dried 

extract and autolysed 
Meat extract 
Malt extract 

Beer 



o 

+ + 



+ 4- 
Very slight 



o 

4- in some 
specimens 

o 



Very slight 



Less than -f 

+ 

+ (at least) 
Very slight 



+ 
Very slight 



CHAPTER XVIII 

THE HYGIENE OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 

THE alimentary canal extends from the lips to the anus, 
and in the strict sense of the word may be regarded as lying 
outside the body ; that is to say, although enclosed by the 
body, its contents always remain separated from the tissues 
by the walls of the canal, and never come into direct contact 
with any other part. Already in preceding chapters a great 
deal has been said about the importance of the food material 
which is supplied to the body, and it must be remembered 
that without the alimentary canal the food could not be 
made use of by the tissues. 

The functions of the various parts of the canal are ordinarily 
regarded as routine matters to which each individual has 
become accustomed by the time that there is sufficient mental 
development to think. Too often attention is only devoted 
to the care of this important system when the absence of such 
care has produced a condition of illness in one or other part 
of this complex tract. 

It is proposed in this chapter to consider in their order the 
several portions of the canal, and to mention their more 
important hygienic aspects. 

The mouth and its organs are the first portion of the 
digestive system. It has in the main two functions to per- 
form : the cutting or mashing up of the food taken com- 
monly called mastication and the first stage in the digestion 
of starch. 

The lips and teeth take hold of the food and pass it 
backwards into the buccal cavity. Here the muscles of the 
jaw cause the teeth to work on the food, and it is, or should 
be, bitten by the teeth into smaller pieces. Simultaneously 
the salivary glands begin to secrete actively, and saliva is 

216 



THE HYGIENE OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 217 

poured out, moistening the food and helping in its disin- 
tegration into smaller particles. The ferment ptyalin 
attacks the starch present in the food, and the first process 
of digestion begins. 

The value of mastication is fairly well known, but it 
may sometimes be doubted whether its obj ect is appreciated. 
The amount of mastication which can be carried out depends 
on the nature of the food supplied. Soft, pulpy puddings, 
etc., cannot be kept long in the mouth, but are automatically 
passed onwards to the next phase. Hard food requires 
prolonged mastication, and gives exercise to the muscles of 
the jaw, and is stated to be good for the teeth. It seems 
sometimes as if the words " tough " and " hard " were 
slightly confounded in the matter of food. There is no 
advantage, but the contrary, in tough food. The term de- 
notes that the material is difficult to make any impression 
upon, and the muscles will be exhausted without producing 
much effect. Tough meat, for example, is very difficult to 
reduce to smaller pieces, and, unless cut up well before 
insertion into the mouth, will usually either be swallowed in 
fairly large pieces or be found impossible to deal with. On 
the other hand, hard food, such as thick biscuits or oatcakes, 
are capable of being broken up by cracking or by a process of 
attrition. For the most part it is foods which contain 
starch in considerable quantities which are hard, and it is 
precisely these upon which the saliva exercises its effect. 
The hard, starchy foods yield gradually to the pressure of the 
muscles, and are ground into small particles, which are in 
part digested in the mouth itself, owing to the longer period 
it remains there. 

The development of the j aw and of its muscles must depend 
in some manner, at any rate, upon the amount of use given 
to the muscles while the jaw is in a state of growth. It is 
advisable that food which has to be broken up by mastica- 
tion should be given as a part of the daily food, and attention 
should be devoted to the adequate chewing of foods such as 
meat and bread, which should be reduced to smaller pieces or 
to a pulp before being passed on to the stomach. 



2i8 HYGIENE 

It is of importance that the teeth should be kept clean, 
and particles of food should not be allowed to lodge in the 
interstices, or to lie in the angles or corners of the mouth 
between the cheeks and the teeth. The condition of the 
teeth does not depend entirely upon the cleaning of them, 
although this is important. It is shown in Chapter XXVI that 
rickets affects the teeth. It has long been known that other 
constitutional diseases affect the structure of the teeth, and, 
as experience grows, it seems clear that the teeth are affected 
by any severe constitutional disturbance. Conversely, 
teeth which are neglected and allowed to remain in a dirty 
condition will affect the whole body. We do not at present 
know how to avoid the localized decay of the teeth, and the 
fact that some teeth will probably decay has to be faced. 
These spots of decay must be dealt with as soon as they arise. 
They may and will spread, not only in the tooth affected, but 
in the adjacent teeth. The process of decay produces 
substances which are detrimental to the body. These are 
swallowed and probably also absorbed through the sockets 
of the teeth into the circulatory system. Many serious 
conditions are caused by the presence in the mouth of decay- 
ing teeth. The gums may become infected, and pus may 
be poured out continually in small amounts. This is 
swallowed and causes disturbance in the stomach. Decaying 
teeth and a foul mouth must be regarded as a chronic sore, 
the discharge from which is swallowed or absorbed, and which 
sooner or later will affect the whole system, not infrequently 
leading to serious disease. The teeth should be cleaned not 
less frequently than once a day, and preferably twice. Some 
authorities advise that they should be cleaned after every 
meal, and, at any rate, care should be taken to dislodge 
particles of food which may be left behind after a meal. 
Various kinds of preparations are recommended for clean- 
ing the teeth, but a simple material such as precipitated 
chalk will often be found to be as effective as the more 
expensive and elaborate powders and pastes. 

Toothache should be treated by a visit to the dentist, and 
it will usually mean that the tooth required attention some 



THE HYGIENE OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 219 

time earlier. Teeth do not ache unless the decay has 
penetrated a fair distance. Acute pain may be due to an 
abscess, which is not always caused by a decayed tooth. 
It requires investigation without delay. Fortunately, of 
recent years, the need for keeping the teeth in a healthy 
state has been more widely realized, but further improve- 
ment is still needed. 

The far-reaching effects of bad teeth are well illustrated 
by the work of Waller on nursing mothers. He shows that 



5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12mos. 



Ib. 

19 

18 
17 
16 
15 
14 



FIG. 46. Showing the effect on the growth of the infant of removing 
its mother's bad teeth. The arrow shows the point at which the operation 
took place. The dotted line is the child's weight-curve and the straight 
line the normal one. 

the condition of the mother's teeth affects her general health 
to such a degree as to affect the child she is nursing. How 
far this effect is through the milk, and how far it may be due 
to the contact by kissing, etc., with a foul mouth, cannot be 
ascertained, but it is not difficult to suppose that both these 
factors play a part. The increase in weight of the child 
shown on the curve in fig. 46 shows the position in a forcible 
and realistic manner. The food which is taken in contains 
many bacteria, and the mouth itself has a rich flora varying 
with the state in which it is kept by the possessor. Around 



220 HYGIENE 

and connected with the mouth are aggregations of lymphatic 
glands, notably the tonsils and the tissue on the posterior 
wall of the pharynx, which take up and endeavour to deal 
with the bacteria which might otherwise gain access to the 
system. When children are allowed to suck dirty fingers 
or dummy teats which have fallen on the floor, and so on, 
additions are made to the bacteria in the mouth and to the 
work of the protecting glands. While there is no necessity 
to make any attempt to sterilize, it is well to exercise reason- 
able care and cleanliness with regard to what is put into the 
mouth. 

The next part of the alimentary canal is the pharynx, 
which is also a part of the respiratory tract and is the place 
of crossing of the two systems, respiratory and alimentary. 
The respiratory passage, or larynx, now passes to the front, 
and the alimentary system, namely, the oesophagus, lies 
behind. The habit of speaking when eating leads to the 
opening of the larynx, with the consequent coughing due 
to a crumb or other material passing into the wrong system. 
The respiratory system endeavours to rid itself of the in- 
vading substance by the action of coughing. 

The bolus of food when swallowed is gripped by the 
muscles of the pharynx and passed through the oesophagus 
into the stomach. The stomach is, in effect, an enlarged 
portion of the alimentary tube which has become altered 
so as to form a receptacle. It lies nearly horizontal in general 
direction in the adult, and the outer or lower part has a 
greater curvature than the upper and inner side. The walls 
are composed of layers of unstriped muscular tissue lined 
with mucous membrane of special type, which is different 
at either end. At both entrance and exit the muscular 
tissue is thickened to form a ring of tissue which closes the 
orifice, opening only in response to certain stimuli. 

The gastric secretion is of the utmost importance in diges- 
tion. Its acidity destroys many of the bacteria in the food 
taken in, and the ferments act on the protein and fat, splitting 
them up into simpler bodies. Details can be found in any 
text-book of physiology. The stomach is capable of some 






THE HYGIENE OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 221 

degree of distension, or of being partly filled without injury 
to it as an organ of digestion. Repeated overloading will 
bring about a permanent distension. When this occurs the 
functions of the stomach are impaired. It ceases to be able 
to empty itself properly into the next part of the canal, 
namely, the small intestine, and the products of digestion 
are allowed to remain stagnant. If the stomach, without 
being unduly distended at any time, is allowed no rest, it will 
sooner or later cease to carry out its functions satisfactorily. 
The habit of frequent meals or of eating between meals is 
very bad. The child who at short intervals eats sweets 
and cakes, the adult who takes bits of food incessantly, are 
injuring the stomach. This organ needs rest, like all the 
others, and must be allowed to clear up the duties connected 
with one meal, and have some rest, before being asked to 
undertake more work. If it be not given a rest it gets tired, 
and, like the individual himself, ceases to work efficiently. 
This leads to indigestion, the functions not being well carried 
out. An interval of not less than four hours should be 
allowed between any two solid meals, and a longer interval 
is preferable. 

Food should be supplied to the stomach at fairly regular 
intervals and in reasonable quantities. The individual who 
eats in a haphazard manner four meals one day and two the 
next who is too busy or preoccupied to notice whether he 
or she is eating much or little, is rarely a very healthy person. 
The stomach does not like being treated in this fashion, but 
expects some consideration. No organ will work properly 
unless it is treated properly. Too often people do not 
realize this, and women especially are too apt to adopt the 
attitude of regarding the stomach as beneath serious con- 
sideration. ' ' Anything, ' ' they say, ' ' is good enough for me, ' ' 
and often they are so foolish as to carry this into practice. 
It is even considered as a triumph of mind over matter if a 
person appears to be relatively independent of the ordinary 
requirements of food. Sooner or later their health must 
suffer from it, for we cannot get away from the needs of the 
body. We may refuse to attend to the needs of the flesh, but 



222 HYGIENE 

we cannot remove the need. Such practices lead to disease 
and not to health. 

A line of distinction should be drawn between the atten- 
tion that is necessary and that degree of consideration which 
becomes an indulgence of self. It is easy to pay an undue 
care to the arrangements for food, but some amount of 
thought should be devoted to it. Well cooked, appetising 
food is more easily taken and digested than badly cooked 
dishes without taste or, as it were, form. It may be that 
experiments with gastric juice shows no difference, but com- 
mon sense and common experience cry aloud to the con- 
trary and insist that there is a psychological side which does 
have an effect upon the general well-being. The importance 
of a properly balanced dietary should not be forgotten in 
framing the menu. Attention should be paid to the climate 
and weather, also to the conditions of work, etc. A person 
who comes in tired after the day's work should have some 
hot food, which will supply warmth to the wearied system. 
Cold food, however digestible it may be, must first of all be 
warmed in the stomach to the temperature of the body, and 
thus at first abstracts heat instead of supplying it. 

In hot weather, when the need may be to get rid of heat, 
the natural tendency is towards cold foods, and especially 
to those which do not on combustion yield much heat or 
have no specific action in producing heat. For those who 
are working during the day it will usually be best to 
have the meal from which the most energy and waste 
will be derived in the middle of the day, and a nourishing 
but readily digestible one at night on return from work. 
A good deal must evidently depend upon the manner of life. 
The foreign plan of starting the day early and of taking a 
long midday pause is a very hygienic one, giving time to 
the body to recoup its wear and tear before proceeding to 
the second part of the day's work. 

The amount of food eaten varies with the individual, and 
is in many cases largely the result of habit. The feeling of 
hunger is not an altogether reliable guide, being sometimes 
rather an indication of the recurrence of the time for a 



THE HYGIENE OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 223 

daily habit rather than the expression of a need for food. 
Further, the feeling in regard to the need for the amount 
of food taken is often deceptive. The stomach gets accus- 
tomed to being filled with given amounts of food. Anyone 
can allow themselves to get into the habit of eating more 
or less than is reasonable, without noticing any particular 
change in themselves. There are wide limits of toleration, 
for a period, at any rate. If the limit in either direction is 
passed, then trouble comes, and the health suffers. There 
are many persons who habitually eat more than they really 
need, and who, if they are unable to obtain the amount 
to which they are accustomed, feel very hungry, when in 
fact it cannot be that they have not taken food sufficient 
in amount with which to carry on their work. But their 
stomach has been accustomed to a certain degree of dis- 
tension, and the absence of this distension causes a feeling 
of hunger. Similarly, if a person who eats sparingly is 
required to eat more than usual, a feeling of distension is 
often complained of, although it is highly improbable that 
it arises from an actual distension of the organ. 

The food which has been subjected to digestion in the 
stomach is passed out as it is ready into the small intestine. 
In the upper part the food now meets the bile, the pan- 
creatic juice and the succus entericus, by the combined 
action of which the complex bodies are broken down into 
the simpler ones suitable for absorption. Absorption takes 
place freely from the extensive surface of the small intes- 
tine. Hygienically there is little to be said specially about 
this part of the alimentary canal. It will be clear, however, 
that upon it depends the health of the body, and, in order 
that it may supply the necessary bodies to the tissues, the 
proper food-stuffs must be taken by the individual. Fortu- 
nately, the body is able to deal with a certain amount of 
excess of the various food-stuffs. This safety mechanism 
should not be tried too far by the ingestion of a badly 
balanced diet, but should be aided by the knowledge of the 
needs of the body. 

The food passes along twenty-two feet (approximately) 



224 HYGIENE 

of small intestine, the digestible portions being broken 
down and absorbed during their passage. The material 
which reaches the next portion, the large intestine, is still 
in a semi-fluid state, and contains chiefly debris and bac- 
teria. The large intestine commences in the right lower 
part of the abdomen and passes upwards towards the liver, 
then across the abdomen to the left side, where it turns 
downwards, and, after passing through the pelvis, reaches 
the anus. The chief functions of the large intestine are to 
absorb fluid so that the material presented to it is rendered 
more solid, and then to discharge this solid material, which 
is nearly all bacteria and waste, to the exterior. The food 
has, in fact, been overhauled and sorted into digestible 
and indigestible : the former has been absorbed, and the 
latter must be thrown out and got rid of. This latter 
process is just as necessary for health as is the former, but 
insufficient attention is often given to it. The large bowel 
must be kept in good condition, and for this purpose it 
must be relieved at suitable intervals of such of its contents 
as are finished with. The action of the bowel depends a 
good deal upon the amount of contents with which it is 
presented by the small intestine. As the fluid is absorbed, 
the material gradually accumulates in the lower part of 
the bowel and will slightly distend the walls. This dis- 
tension stimulates the walls, and a general contraction 
takes place, leading to an expulsion of the contents. Such 
an expulsion should take place fairly frequently, not 
less than once a day. If the contents remain longer in 
the bowel, bacterial action produces abnormal products, 
which are absorbed and in time will poison the whole 
system. 

Should an insufficient amount of material be present to 
produce a distension of the walls, the bowel will not empty 
itself, and the contents will remain in it too long. This 
occurs when the food is too nutritious, so that it is nearly 
all absorbed, leaving little or no residue to be passed into 
the large intestine. It also occurs if the food is too dry, 
so that the residue is hard, deficient in total bulk, and not 



THE HYGIENE OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 225 

readily passed through. In such cases the bowel will not 
be emptied, and constipation will result. 

The diet should contain a fair proportion of indigestible 
material, such as the cellulose of vegetables and of fruit, 
the husks of grain, etc. ; it must not be too dry that is to 
say, sufficient fluid must be taken, partly in the food and 
also separately as a beverage. Constipation both in infants 
and adults is not infrequently due to too small intake of 
water, and also to the nature of the food taken. The evils 
of constipation are not merely seen in a general state of 
ill health ; it has recently been forcibly pointed out by 
Sir Arbuthnot Lane that the stasis acts detrimentally upon 
the bowel itself, leading to a variety of conditions which 
may ultimately affect life. 

It is unwise to lay down too hard-and-fast rules as to the 
intervals which should elapse between the evacuations of 
the bowel, but it may safely be said that they should not 
be longer than about twenty- four hours. In many people 
the intervals are less than this, and a free natural clearance 
of the bowel is to be encouraged. Children should be taught 
that it is essential for time to be devoted daily to this pur- 
pose, and there is usually no difficulty in securing satisfactory 
habits if this is taken in hand from birth onwards. Neglect 
in children is often difficult to remedy later, and, apart from 
the bodily injury, the whole condition becomes a burden to 
the individual, and often also to those with whom they 
live. 

Schools and educational institutions of all kinds should 
realize the fact that provision must be made for this neces- 
sary duty. Too often in the past, especially perhaps in 
girls' schools, inadequate accommodation and inadequate 
time have been allowed, rendering it impossible for the 
bowels to be attended to. Continual repression of the need 
leads to sluggishness of the bowel, and to constipation, with 
its accompanying ill health. Great improvements in sani- 
tary accommodation have been made of recent years, but 
much is still required. All those who are responsible for 
others must learn to appreciate the necessity for adequate 
15 



226 HYGIENE 

provision. The health of those for whom they are respon- 
sible is concerned, and due regard must be paid to it. 

On the other hand, some people are unduly worried about 
the whole matter. This usually arises from some degree 
of constipation which has troubled them, and out of this 
they have got into the habit of taking drugs every two or 
three days. After a time, the bowel, having become 
accustomed to this artificial stimulus, ceases to work 
without it. Further, it requires an increasing strength of 
the stimulus, so that large doses of drugs must be taken. 
In many cases the bowel can regain its proper function if 
proper advice is obtained. In children it is fairly easy to 
secure good habits by giving decreasing doses of aperients 
each night. That is to say, the bowel receives a daily 
stimulus, but of a decreasing strength : gradually it will 
recover its own functions. It is perhaps well to mention 
that this should be accompanied by attention to the nature 
of the food and amounts of fluid, etc., already referred to. 
Exercise, by improving the general tone of the body, aids 
in the evacuation of the bowels, and should form part of the 
daily life of everyone. Fatigue, on the other hand, has 
the reverse tendency. 

As in all matters relating to the hygiene of the individual, 
knowledge is required, and must be combined with common 
sense in its application. 



CHAPTER XIX 

MILK: ITS COMPOSITION 

OF recent years so much has been said and written about 
milk, some of which is partly erroneous, that it will be 
necessary to review the whole question in some detail. 
The position is not a straightforward one, but involves 
many issues. Too frequently one side only of the question 
is urged, and the other aspects are ignored, so that a 
false proportion is thus, perhaps accidentally, presented. 
Anyone who wishes to have a reasonably clear view of 
the present state of knowledge on the milk question must 
be prepared to expend a little mental energy, and to 
think about the various difficulties inherent in the whole 
problem. 

Milk is produced by all varieties of mammals for the 
young of the species. Ordinarily the milk is secreted freely 
over such a period only as is required for the young of that 
particular species to become sufficiently mature to eat a 
more solid diet. The period necessary varies from a few 
days to a number of months, depending upon the state of 
maturity or immaturity of the young at birth, and also upon 
the rate of development after birth. The period of activity 
can be prolonged by continued stimulation of the gland. 

For a varying period it is the only food required or suit- 
able for the young of the species; but after a time the 
secretion ceases, and by that time the young animal should 
be able to eat the nourishment it requires. 

So far as is known, the milk of all species shows certain 
fundamental similarities of chemical composition, and 
contains protein (the nitrogen-containing part), fat, sugar 
(carbohydrate), salts, and water. In addition, it contains 
substances apparently necessary for the carrying on of life 

227 



228 



HYGIENE 



known as accessory food factors, or vitamines. In fact, it 
possesses all the elements required for food : this, however, 
is not identical with saying that it is a perfect food for 
anyone except infants or for the young animals for whom 
it was originally intended by nature. 

Although the milk of different species contains the same 
constituents, the proportions of those substances vary 
widely in the different milks. 

There is also a considerable variation in the composition of 
milk in each species, depending (in cows) upon the breed of 
cattle, the intervals between milking, the period of lacta- 
tion, and, as regards certain factors, upon the food given. 

Milk contains cells from the mammary glands. The milk 
from healthy, well-kept cows does not usually contain as 
many cells as that from cows not kept in a good state of 
health. In the early days of lactation there is always a 
great increase in the cells and in the protein content gener- 
ally, and the term " colostrum " is given to this milk. The 
increased protein and cells render the milk thicker, and 
that from the cow is not commonly used as food by man, 
but is of special value for the offspring. The following 
figures give some idea of the composition of cow's milk and 
its variations : 

Per cent. 

Water .... from 83-90 

Fat .... 



Caseinogen 

Lact-albumin 

Lacto-globulin 

Lactose . 

Ash 

Total protein. 



0-8-8-0 
2-0-4-5 

O-2-O-8 

0-08-0-35 

3-0-6-0 

0-6-0-9 

2-28-5-3 



Nature of samples. 


Proteins. 


Fat. 


Sugar. 


Salts. 


Water. 


Cow's milk, average . 


Per cent. 
3-50 


Per cent. 
3-50 


Per cent. 
5-0 


Percent. 
0-7 


Per cent. 

7 


,, ist day of colostrum . 
ist month of lactation 


12-99 
2-98 


3'9 

2-7 


2-3 

5'7 


i-5 
0-24 


11 


,, Jerseys 


3'i 


5-o 


4-8 








,, Shorthorns 


3*2 


4-0 


5'i 








Human milk, average . 


i'5 


4-0 


6-5 


0-2 


88 


,, ist day of colostrum 


9-7 


2-6 


2-9 


0-4 


8? 


,, ist month of lactation 


2-9 


2-7 


5'7 


O-2 


88 


,, 8th month of lactation 


1-7 


3-3 


6-3 


0-I 5 


' 



MILK: ITS COMPOSITION 229 

The substances contained in milk must now be con- 
sidered in greater detail. 

Protein of Milk. Cow's milk contains three different 
kinds of protein, which are termed caseinogen, lact-albumin, 
and lacto-globulin. 

Caseinogen is present in combination with calcium, as 
calcium caseinogenate. It differs from the protein ordinarily 
taken in food in several ways, and does not appear to be 
found anywhere outside milk. Caseinogen forms ordinarily 
one-half to two-thirds of all protein in cow's milk. When 
milk is treated with rennet, the caseinogen alone is acted 
upon, being changed and afterwards known as "casein." 
Casein forms the substance of the clot when curds are made, 
but other constituents of the milk are caught in varying 
amounts in the meshes of the clot. Caseinogen forms only 
about one-third of the total protein of human milk. 

Lad-albumin is an important protein. It has been shown 
to be identical with the albumin of the blood, and it is 
derived directly from the blood by nitration through the 
walls of the capillaries. It does not coagulate with rennet, 
but is found in the whey. Thus whey contains a consider- 
able amount of protein, and the whey of cow's milk will 
contain little less protein than is found in full human milk. 
Infants fed on whey and cream obtain nearly as much 
protein as they would derive from their mother's milk, 
where the chief protein is lact-albumin. 

Lacto-globulin is found in very small quantities, so small, 
in fact, that it has not always been detected by chemical 
analysis, but it can usually be demonstrated by more sensi- 
tive processes. It is derived directly from the blood, as is 
the lact-albumin, and is identical with the globulin of the 
blood. It carries with it the properties of immunity for the 
young of its own species, and is therefore of the highest 
physiological importance (cp. Chapter XXIII under Breast 
Feeding) . 

Sugar.-^-The sugar present in milk is called lactose, and 
is found nowhere else in the animal or vegetable kingdom, 
so far as is at present known. Lactose has the formula 



230 HYGIENE 

C 12 H 22 O n , being a disaccharide. It is manufactured by the 
cells of the mammary gland from the sugar circulating in 
the blood. This latter is glucose (C 6 H 12 O G ), and therefore 
the gland must be able to synthesize two molecules of glucose 
with the elimination of a molecule of water. This has not 
been accomplished in the laboratory, and the precise 
machinery whereby it is carried out is not known. 

Lactose when taken by the mouth must be broken down 
into simpler molecules. Its cleavage produces two mole- 
cules of sugar, each of which has the chemical formula 
C 6 H 12 6 , but the atoms are differently arranged in the mole- 
cules, giving rise to two different sugars, viz. : 

C 12 H 22 O n + H 2 = C 6 H 12 G + C 6 H 12 O 6 . 
Lactose. Glucose. Galactose. 

The alimentary canal of the young animal contains a 
ferment, lactase, which splits lactose in accordance with the 
above equation. This specific ferment disappears as the 
young animal becomes able to take varied food. The other fer- 
ments which attack sugar, and which appear later, are able to 
convert, at any rate, a certain amount of lactose ; but lactose 
when taken in any large amount tends to produce diarrhoea. 
If injected into the blood-stream, it is excreted by the 
kidney. Lactose cannot be utilized as such by the body, 
but must be broken down and built up again, by the 
mammary gland if necessary. This is an important point, 
since nursing mothers are sometimes advised to take large 
quantities of milk, on the apparent assumption that it can 
be utilized directly, which is not the case. Lactose has no 
advantage over ordinary sugar for nursing mothers, although 
it has an advantage for very young children owing to the 
presence of the special ferment, lactase. 

Fat. The fat of milk is made up of a large number of 
different fats. It is not proposed to enter into any dis- 
cussion of their varieties, since too little is known to make 
this worth while from a hygienic aspect. It is the fat with 
which is associated one of the vitamines (fat-soluble A) , which 
has been shown in Chapter XVII to be essential for the 



MILK: ITS COMPOSITION 231 

maintenance of health (cp. also Chapter XXVII). It is 
known that the fats present differ both in amounts and in 
kind in different species, but nothing is known of the 
probable differences relating to the nature or amount of 
fat-soluble vitamines present in the different milks. 

Great variations occur in the fat content of the milk at 
different stages of emptying the gland, either by milking, 
as in the cow, or by suckling in the case of the infant. The 
first part of the milk is poor in fat, but the content gradually 
rises until the last portions of milk obtained may be extremely 
rich in fat. Only insignificant and inconstant variations 
are found in the other constituents while the gland is being 
emptied. Certain typical figures are given below : 

Per cent, of fat. 

Human milk : ist sample ..... 4-4 

2nd ..... 6-7 

3rd .. . 8-4 

4 th ., 10-3 

5th ... 10-5 

Cows' milk : ist half litre ..... 3-7 

3rd ..... 4-2 

.. 5th . 5-8 

7th ... 9-3 

The milk of cows has received different names according 
to the stage of milking at which it is obtained the first 
portion is called " first milk," the last portions " stoppings," 
and the middle portions " middle milk." The stoppings are 
usually many times richer in fat than the first milk, e.g. : 

Per cent, of fat. 
First milk . . . . . . . 



Middle milk ....... 2-75 

Strippings . ... 8-30 

These figures show the great importance of using samples 
of the whole of the milk, both for any purposes of investiga- 
tion and for the feeding of infants. In the case of human 
milk, it is evidently imperative that the child should empty 
the gland, otherwise the full fat content, and hence food value 
of the milk, will not be obtained (cp. Chapter XXIII). 

Again, there is considerable variation in the fat content 



232 HYGIENE 

due to intervals of milking. A long interval produces a 
milk less rich in fat. Thus in winter, when the afternoon 
milking is done early, the morning milk will usually show a 
markedly lower fat content than the afternoon milk, although 
the total yield may be larger ; for example : 

Per cent, of fat. 
6 hours after milking . . . . . . 5-75 

14 4'5 

15 2-38 

Also with breast feeding, when an eight-hourly interval is 
allowed during the night, as against four-hourly ones during 
the day, the amount of milk given is greater after the long 
interval, but the fat content tends to be lower. 

Salts. The salts of milk have probably not as yet received 
the attention they deserve. The total amount found varies 
with the species, as also does the nature of the salts present. 
Generally, the ash of milk contains calcium, magnesium, iron, 
potassium, and sodium, which are combined in the milk 
with a variety of acid radicles, as carbonates, sulphates, 
chlorides, and phosphates. The phosphorus in the ash is 
in part derived from the caseinogen, which contains phos- 
phorus, and the association of calcium and caseinogen has 
already been mentioned (cp. p. 229). Calcium is present 
in larger amounts in cow's milk than in human, probably 
on account of the difference in caseinogen already mentioned. 
Iron is found in very small amounts in milk, but the body 
is affected by very minute amounts of salts. Human milk 
may roughly be said to contain from three to four times as 
much iron as cow's milk. There is some evidence to show 
that the iron in the milk of its own species is better utilized 
by the infant than that contained in cow's milk. Water 
forms about 87 per cent, of milk, leaving about 12 per cent, 
for the total solid material. (For comparison with other 
food-stuffs, see p. 205 et seq.) The accessory food factors have 
never been isolated, and their nature is unknown as yet. 
They are associated with the constituents of milk, but no 
more precise information can be given at the present time.- 

While there are marked individual differences in the 



MILK: ITS COMPOSITION 233 

composition of milk, as shown above, apart from these 
differences the composition is extraordinarily constant. 
Numerous attempts have been made to alter the composi- 
tion by feeding experiments. While some modification in 
the quantity of milk can be effected by careful methods, 
and by increasing the food, none of the experiments so far 
published show that it is possible to obtain an increase in 
any one constituent of the fluid by the addition of that 
substance to the food. Thus work done with lactating 
animals and women by feeding on calcium, iron, sugar, etc., 
have either been inconclusive or have shown no effect 
whatever. 

On the other hand, if any one vital constituent of the 
dietary is omitted, so soon as the deficiency is sufficient to 
prejudice the general health of the organism, then the whole 
milk supply fails. There is no reduction merely in the 
amount of that constituent in the milk, but a general 
reduction leading eventually to a cessation of the milk 
production of the gland. Within limits, therefore, a liberal 
diet may increase quantity, but, as will be shown later, 
excess of certain constituents may be prejudicial. The 
production of milk depends upon the general health of the 
organism, and the composition is regulated and kept constant 
by the gland itself. 



CHAPTER XX 

MILK PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY 

IN the preceding chapter milk has been considered as to 
its chemical composition only. It is now necessary to 
consider it as an article of commerce, and to study some 
of the difficulties which arise in its production and its 
transport to the consumer. Milk, as it is found in the udder 
of a healthy cow, is free from bacteria. It is, however, only 
by exercising most stringent precautions, far too stringent 
to carry out in the usual routine, that milk can be collected 
free from contamination by bacteria. At every stage of its 
progress from the ducts of the gland to the consumer, milk 
tends to have its content of bacteria increased. The nature 
of the contamination differs at different stages, and it will 
be necessary to see why this is so. Many of the bacteria 
are not directly harmful, but when present in large numbers 
they produce effects which may be harmful, especially to 
infants. 

The production of a milk free from bacteria may be 
regarded as a practical impossibility, but the gross con- 
tamination of the average sample of milk sold in this country 
is entirely unnecessary, and is the outcome of ignorance and 
carelessness on the part of those concerned in its production, 
coupled with ignorance and apathy on the part of the 
consumer. 

It is not proposed in this chapter to discuss the position 
of milk as a food-stuff for either infants or adults. It is not 
material for the moment whether milk is or is not of impor- 
tance as a beverage for adults. Milk is widely used for a 
variety of purposes in the ordinary household, and would 
be greatly missed if it were not available. But articles in 

234 



MILK PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY 235 

common use in the dietary should be as pure as is reasonably 
possible, since there is no advantage in consuming impurities, 
especially when, as in the case of milk, their origin evokes 
disgust, and they can be easily avoided. It is impossible to 
give any average figure for the number of bacteria commonly 
found in milk, owing to the wide variations. Roughly, 
however, it is fairly safe to say that the raw milk ordinarily 
sold in London, and many other large towns, contains several 
million bacteria per cubic centimetre. A cubic centimetre 
is just under seventeen minims, so that the quantity of fluid 
is small. If milk were a transparent fluid like water, such a 
sample would be cloudy in appearance, owing to the presence 
of these immense numbers of bacteria. As it is opaque, 
there is no difference in appearance whether the milk con- 
tains bacteria or not. The amount of sediment may give 
some kind of idea as to the degree of contamination, but 
cannot be regarded as a safe guide. 

The first source of contamination to which the milk is 
liable is from the cow herself. The chief diseases from which 
many cows suffer, and which are known to affect the health 
of human beings, are tuberculosis and inflammation of the 
udder, or mastitis. It is also possible that other diseases 
of the udder from which they suffer may produce diphtheria 
and scarlet fever in man. These last, however, have only 
doubtfully been traced to the cow, and are not, for the 
present purpose, of the same importance as tuberculosis and 
mastitis. At the same time, the possibility of other diseases 
of the udder pathogenic to human beings increases the 
likelihood of the transmission of disease from the cow to 
man. 

Tuberculosis is certainly the most serious infection, 
owing to the wide prevalence of the disease among cows. 
There are no figures which can supply an accurate state- 
ment as to the percentage of cows infected. Reliable 
, authorities believe that 25 per cent, would be a con- 
servative estimate, and it is stated that the figure might 
be a good deal higher. A cow may have tuberculosis of 
many parts of the body ; the udder itself may or may 



236 HYGIENE 

not be affected. Tubercle bacilli are frequently passed in 
the milk when the udder itself shows no sign of disease 
on physical examination. 1 It is not therefore safe to 
assume that the milk will not be infected unless the udder 
itself is infected. Indirect, if not direct, infection may 
also take place from a tuberculous cow, through the presence 
of tuberculosis in the alimentary canal. A cow with pul- 
monary tuberculosis will swallow tuberculous sputum, and 
the bacilli are excreted alive in the faeces. Any contamina- 
tion of the milk by faeces would therefore be liable to infect 
the milk. 2 The practice of mixing milk from many cows 
on a farm disseminates the bacilli, if any are present, but it 
also reduces the mass of infected material in each portion 
of the milk, since it may be assumed that much of the milk 
will be free from tubercle bacilli. 

The presence of tubercle bacilli in milk can only be 
accurately determined by injecting the suspected fluid into 
a guinea-pig. These animals are very susceptible to tubercle, 
and if killed from four to six weeks after the injection, will 
show the presence of tubercular lesions if the milk has 
contained tubercle bacilli. A very large number of tests 
are made each year in London and in other large towns in 
this country. There are naturally considerable variations 
in the figures obtained both from year to year and in 
different places. Generally, however, it may be said that 
the results show that from 6-8 per cent, or more of all 
samples examined contained tubercle bacilli. 

There can no longer be any doubt that these bacilli are 
capable of infecting man. There has been much discussion 
of this point, and much experimental work has been carried 
out. The tubercle bacillus found in cattle (bovine tubercle 
bacillus) shows slightly different properties from the human 
bacillus. This renders it possible to determine the origin 

1 Delepine, " Report on the Prevalence and Sources of Tubercle Bacilli 
in Cow's Milk." Report of the M.O. to the L.G.B., 1908-9. 

2 It has recently been shown that the bacilli passed out with the faeces 
remain virulent for many months, and are capable of infecting other 
animals grazing in the field. Report of the Medical Research Council, 
1920, p. 46. 



MILK PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY 237 

of tuberculosis in man, if a sample of the infected tissue can 
be obtained. The Royal Commission on Tuberculosis * 
found that in young children dying from alimentary tuber- 
culosis about 50 per cent, of the cases were due to the 
presence of the bovine bacillus alone. They further point 
out that there are an immense number of children whose 
health is damaged by tubercular lesions, but who do not 
die. More recently the great number of occult cases of 
tuberculosis in children has been demonstrated 2 that is, 
when there was no clinical evidence whatever of tubercle, 
the child dying of some other complaint. In Edinburgh a 
great deal of work has been done on this point, demonstrating 
conclusively the ravages of the bovine bacillus. As an 
example, Mitchell 3 examined eighty consecutive cases of 
tubercular glands. He states that " without exception the 
cases were those of children twelve years of age and under. 
The maximum incidence occurred during the second year 
of life. This is not surprising when it is recalled that the 
large majority of children of this age are nourished in 
whole or in part on cow's milk. I found that in my series 
of cases, 84 per cent, of the children of two years and under 
had been fed with unsterilized cow's milk since birth. 
Whatever may be the case in other countries, the mode of 
feeding children in Britain, especially in Scotland, is such 
as to favour bovine infection." 

Children as a whole are more often victims of tuber- 
culosis of the bones, joints, and glands, than of tubercle of 
the lungs, and their lesions are frequently found to be due 
to the bovine bacillus. The Royal Commission state : 
" Although the bovine tubercle bacilli may, as it appears, 
be solely responsible for certain cases of pulmonary tuber- 
culosis (consumption), and though it may be present with 
the human tubercle bacillus in the bronchial glands, it is 
evident from the data recorded that the majority of cases 

1 Final Report of the Royal Commission on Tuberculosis. 

2 Delepine, British Journal of Tuberculosis, 1920, vol. xiv, p. 60. 

3 " Bacteriological Study of Tuberculosis in the Lymph Glands of 
Children," Journ. of State Med., 1915, xxiii. i. 



238 HYGIENE 

in which the bovine tubercle bacillus is the infective agent 
in the human being are cases of alimentary tuberculosis. 
Such are cases of cervical gland and primary abdominal 
tuberculosis. In the latter class of cases at least the 
tubercle bacillus has unquestionably been swallowed. . 1 . 
The percentage of these cases of alimentary tuberculosis 
due to the bovine tubercle bacillus is very large." 

The only way in which it would be possible for a milk 
supply to be free from tubercle bacilli would be by elimi- 
nating the disease from cattle. This, however, while a most 
desirable object to bear in mind, is one of the utmost 
difficulty to carry out, and for all practical purposes at the 
present time must be regarded as almost impossible. 

There is no difficulty in detecting tubercle by physical 
examination of the cows when the disease is well established. 
In the earlier stages it may be quite impossible to do so, 
although, as already mentioned, the cow may be passing 
the bacilli into the milk. 

The tuberculin test is of great assistance in detecting 
tubercle when properly used. The principle employed is 
the injection of a known dose of tuberculin (prepared from 
dried tubercle bacilli) with a view to obtaining a reaction 
in the cow. If the cow is tuberculous, the temperature will 
rise a few hours after the injection. If the temperature 
remains approximately constant, the test is negative. 
Unfortunately, this test can only be applied at intervals of 
a few months. The cost of testing is considerable, and the 
whole procedure is upsetting to the work of the dairy. 
Further, there is some risk of the cows' reacting uncertainly 
to the test if it is applied at short intervals. It is true 
that much can be done towards reducing the likelihood of 
tuberculosis in a herd, by regular injection of the cows and 
immediate elimination of those found to be infected. Every 
new cow admitted must be excluded for some months from 
any contact with the others, and must be satisfactorily 
tested at the end of this period before being allowed to join 
the herd. It is not advisable to test her on admission, for 
various reasons which are beyond the scope of this book. 



MILK PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY 239 

Dairy farmers who aim at a herd free from tuberculosis 
usually breed their own herds so far as may be, in order to 
avoid the risk of introducing infected cows from outside. 
It is important that a clear idea should be gained of this 
question of tuberculosis, for there is much loose talking 
which sounds impressive but which means little. For 
example, one large firm of milk- vendors at one time labelled 
all their milk carts " tuberculin-tested milk," which im- 
pressed the public and gave the impression that the milk 
was safe as regards tuberculosis. Actually the words mean 
nothing, for it is not possible to test milk with tuberculin, 
and the great difficulty of obtaining a herd guaranteed 
free from tuberculosis has been explained above. 

Even in America, where milk production on a scientific 
basis has been carried out for a number of years, virulent 
tubercle bacilli have been found in milk which has been 
produced under the strictest regulations for the detection 
of tuberculosis in the herd. The possibility of the presence 
of bovine tubercle bacilli in any given sample of milk cannot 
be ruled out, with the present known methods. The subject 
is a complicated one and cannot be dealt with fully here. 

Inflammation of the udder, or mastitis, is a not uncommon 
disease in cows : it is said that it is more common when 
the cows are badly cared for and kept in unhygienic condi- 
tions, but it will at times find its way into the best-kept 
herd. The organism which most frequently causes the 
trouble is a streptococcus, and many epidemics of septic 
sore throat have been traced to the occurrence of mastitis 
in one or more cows in the herd giving the milk which has 
been consumed. It may be that the affection is not dis- 
covered by the milker, or that the bacteria are passed out 
before any outward evidence is noticeable. Also, it is to 
be feared that the farmer is unwilling to throw away milk 
which, while he knows it to come from an unhealthy udder, 
is not as yet much altered in appearance, and which can 
quite well pass as good milk. If the mastitis is severe, the 
character of the milk alters, and blood and pus may be 
passed out with it. In this stage of the disease, the milk 



240 HYGIENE 

would probably be drawn only to relieve the cow and would 
be thrown away. 

In view of the above facts, it is clear that it is unsafe 
to regard any sample of milk as free from the germs of 
disease which may be derived from the cow. Clearly the 
majority of samples taken are free from such germs, but it 
is impossible to say which are and which are not. It is 
safer to act on the supposition that the milk is infected, and 
to take the precaution of heating the milk, as described 
in Chapter XXII. 

There are, however, other sources of contamination of 
milk by the cow herself. Unless cows are kept scrupulously 
clean, the udder and hind quarters become soiled with 
excreta, and may even be caked with the dried material. 
In the process of milking, some of this is rubbed off by 
the milker. He not uncommonly puts his head against the 
cow's flank, and the movements made rub the dirt off the 
cow into the pail below. 1 The manipulation of the udder 
has the same result, and further contamination may be 
caused by the passage of urine or faeces during milking. 
Unless the greatest care is taken, bits of hair and epithelium 
from the cow's skin will be rubbed off and fall into the pail. 

On a farm where the milk production is carried out on 
up-to-date lines, the cows' udders are clipped, so as to 
remove the hairs, and the hind quarters, udder and tail, are 
rubbed down with a clean, damp cloth, and then with a dry 
one before each milking, the skin being left moist but not 
wet. The milker is not allowed to put his head against 
the cows, and a special kind of pail is used which prevents 
the falling in of hairs, etc., from the cow. Two specimens 
of pails are shown in fig. 47. With the protected pail the 
milker holds the pail slightly tilted, and milks into the 
aperture at the side. 

The milker is a further source of contamination. His 
hands are not always washed before milking, and he may 
come straight from carting manure to the milking. He 

1 This assumes that the pail is an open one, which will probably be the 
case where the cows are dirty and old-fashioned methods are employed. 



MILK PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY 



241 



may moisten his hands with saliva, and a not uncommon 
practice is to draw a little milk and then dip the hands 
into the pail to moisten them. 

A milker should have hands which have been thoroughly 
washed with soap and water, and the nails must be kept short 
and clean. After washing, he must not handle anything else 
except the cow's udder, which will have been previously 
cleaned as already described. He should wear a clean, 
freshly- washed overall, covering, at any rate, the whole front 




FIG. 47. Open and protected pails. 

entirely. The milking should be done with dry hands. A 
milker or worker connected with the dairy who is suffering 
from any disease is liable to infect the milk. Infection may 
be conveyed to the milk by a tuberculous person coughing 
near the pail, or from one whose hands and clothes are soiled 
with sputum. Epidemics of scarlet fever, diphtheria, and 
enteric fever have been traced to the milk supply, and back to 
a worker or dweller on the farm who has infected the milk in 
some way not always very obvious, but none the less certain. 
Yet another source of contamination is the pail. If this 
16 



242 



HYGIENE 



has angles inside at the joints, and if it is not treated with 
steam or boiled between each usage, the pail will nearly 
always retain a considerable number of bacteria. Unless 
the pails are treated in this way, the retained bacteria will 
contaminate the fresh milk run into them. 

The following figures, taken from an experiment at 
Birmingham, illustrate the degree of contamination avoided 
by using a protected form of pail : 

NUMBER OF GERMS IN i CUBIC CENTIMETRE OF MILK SAMPLES TAKEN 
BY ORDINARY MILKING METHODS, AND BY SPECIAL MILKING METHODS 








Ordinary 
method 
(open pail). 


Average. 


Special method 
(protected 
pail). 


Average. 


After 2 
hours 


(Farm A 
1 , B 

I D 


6,790^ 
10,600 (_ 

147,5 | 
3 6oJ 


41,312 


150^ 
400 [ 
I 4 0| 
2 47' 


234 




(Farm A 


9,200^ 




i6o-| 




After 24 
hours 


J ' B 

1 ' C 


5,800,000 [_ 
852,000 1 


1,803,800 


18,000 | 
400 j 


4,975 




I , D 


554,000; 








After 48 
hours 


/-Farm A 

1; I 


32,000,000^ 
39,840,000 | 
16,180,000 I 


28,790,000 


460,000^ 
6,827,500! 
38,000 j" 
548,000] 


1,968,375 



The Birmingham figures quoted above show the bacterial 
counts in milk two hours after milking, using the two kinds 
of pail. These may be taken as not being appreciably 
higher than the numbers immediately after milking, since 
it is well known that the bacterial content frequently under- 
goes an apparent reduction during the first few hours after 
milking and in any case the rate of increase during the first 
few hours is slow. Orr x took the bacterial content of a large 
number of samples of milk after milking and found the figures 
to vary between 17,000 and 60,000. The winter figures 
were higher than the summer, owing to the cowsheds being 
dirtier and the air, therefore, more laden with bacteria. 
These figures are of interest when comparing those given 
below with milking carried out by the milking machine. 

In order to avoid the contamination arising during milking, 

1 Report on an Investigation as to the Contamination of Milk, 1908. 



MILK PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY 



243 



and also to save labour, milking machines have been intro- 
duced. These machines are devised with four cups with 
rubber linings which fit on to the teats. The cups are con- 
nected by flexible tubing to a closed receptacle and the whole 
is connected with some form of engine. The engine produces 
a reduction in the pressure inside the apparatus, and thus 
draws the milk out of the udder, a further device being intro- 
duced to make the suction intermittent. At first it was 
found that the suction did not really empty the udder and 
the cows dried off too quickly. Now, however, they can be 
regarded as satisfactory from this aspect, and the use of the 
milking machine appears to be gaining ground. From the 
point of view of cleanliness, however, it is very doubtful 
whether any improvement is effected. The machine requires 
the utmost care in cleaning it. The flexible tubes contain 
some rubber material, and cannot therefore be boiled. There 
are joints and corners, all of which should be kept in a state 
of rigid cleanliness : this requires time. Orr, 1 who carried 
out very elaborate investigations on both ordinary methods 
and on milking machines, found that the milking machines 
as a whole gave very unsatisfactory results. He says : 
" The results which might be expected to follow the use of 
milking machines are prevention of contamination from 
the udder, the air, and the milker, and the production of a 
milk containing a few bacteria. Experiments performed 
during the course of this investigation, however, prove 
that milk so obtained contains a large number of bacteria. 
Two of the best modern milking machines were under obser- 
vation, and on two occasions samples drawn from each 
machine were examined. The following are the results 
obtained : 





Agar at 37 C. 


Agar at 20 C. 






Per cent. 


Per cent. 


Machine : 


A i . . 


133,000 


172,500 


n 


,, 2 


208,000 


494,000 


Machine : 


B i . 


I.OOO.OOO 


1,392,000 


" 


2 . 


842,000 


986,000 



Loc. cit. 



244 HYGIENE 

" These results place the samples . . . amongst the worst 
specimens of milk. B i is worse than any other sample of 
milk examined, and B 2 is not much below the worst. The 
bacterial contents of A i and B 2 are only exceeded by one 
sample. 

" These results show the machine to be a source of great 
contamination. The reasons for pollution are mainly, first, 
the difficulty of cleaning, and, secondly, the sucking in of air 
and dust when the cups fall off. The difficulty in cleaning 
is due to the amount of tubing, which in one machine reaches 
a length of several yards and in the other of several feet. 
The machine is cleaned by running first strong soda-water 
through all the tubing and apparatus, and then washing 
thoroughly with tepid water. Hot water, of course, cannot 
be used, and certainly not steam, both being liable to destroy 
the rubber. The tepid water is incapable of killing the 
organisms in the tubes, and the apparatus stands from after 
the morning milking till the evening milking, during which 
time organisms in the water in the tubes are multiplying 
and are ready to contaminate the new milk passing through. 
When the cups fall off the teats, the bacteria-laden air is 
sucked into the tubes and contaminates the milk. There 
is no means of preventing the cups from falling on to the 
cowshed floor, as they sometimes do, and, the suction being 
continuous, manurial dirt, which is very rich in bacteria, is 
drawn into the apparatus." 

"The machines observed have been given the best chance 
possible, as the owners are expert farmers, and the cleaning 
is carried out in the dairy by experienced dairymaids. In 
both cases the cans were thoroughly cleansed, the cows 
groomed, and the cowsheds excellent, so that the milking 
machine alone can be blamed for the very high bacterial 
content of the milk. 

" Such disappointing results might be avoided if tubing 
could be used through which steam might be passed, and if 
the cups had check-valves to prevent the sucking in of air 
and dust at the moment the cups fall off the teats." 

In the recent inquiry made by the Committee on the 



MILK PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY 245 

Production and Distribution of Milk, 1 answers were obtained 
as to the frequency of cleaning of the machine. It is clear 
that, if the machine is to be cleaned properly, it requires a 
person of considerable intelligence, on account of its com- 
plexity, and it will take a long time to do. From the replies 
it would appear that from two to three hours are required for 
a thorough cleansing. Each machine is used for a number 
of cows at each milking. The Committee say : " The usual 
method of cleaning resorted to consisted of passing, by 
suction, first cold water and then hot water through the teat- 
cups and milk-conveying tubes into the milk- receiver. In 
some instances the hot water contained a disinfecting agent, 
in others the teat-cups were regularly brushed out ; but it 
was obvious, from the general tenor of the replies, that the 
cleaning was, as a rule, not sufficiently thorough or system- 
atic. The time given to the daily cleaning appeared to be 
about 5 minutes per receiver and associated parts, and it was 
added that the rubber parts required more perfect cleaning 
periodically. In most cases the machine was taken to pieces 
and thoroughly cleaned weekly, fortnightly, or monthly. 
Again, it was obvious that on many farms there was no 
definite procedure laid down for the dismantling and careful 
examination of the working parts and the parts which come 
into contact with the milk. At no stage in the management 
of a mechanical milker is there greater need for attention 
to detail than in the daily cleansing. The other work of a 
cowman is by no means of a cleanly nature, and it is not to 
be expected that the average cowman will carry out his work 
satisfactorily unless the necessity for thorough cleansing of 
the milking machine is understood or regular supervision is 
given by the farmer or bailiff." 

The milking machine, as commonly used, is of the nature 
of a glorified long- tubed bottle, which has justly been con- 
demned as a positive and dangerous source of contamination. 
The chief difference is that, in the one case, the contamination 
is at the source, and in the other it is at the end and must pass 

1 Final Report of the Committee on the Production and Distribution of 
Milk, 483, 1919, pp. 54-66. 



246 



HYGIENE 



inevitably into the baby's mouth. Rubber tubes, or tubes 
containing rubber, are very difficult to keep clean, as they 
cannot be boiled, and must be avoided where cleanliness is 
essential. 

After milking, the common practice is to filter the milk 
through some kind of filter. The Ulax, of which a figure is 
given in fig. 48, is a common type used. If the milk is drawn 
with strict attention to cleanliness, then filtering is un- 
necessary. If, howevei, dirty methods are permitted, 
filtering will in most cases make the position no better. 
With dirty cows and dirty methods, there will almost 
certainly be a good deal of gross contamination. The par- 
ticles, or even pieces, which fall into the pail contain large 
numbers of bacteria. The process of filtering breaks up the 
dirt and disseminates the bacteria. True, it holds back 
much of the visible dirt, but this makes a false sense of 
security. Thus, Savage found the following figures : 





Number of 
organisms in 
unfiltered 
sample. 


Amount of 
sediment per 
100 c.c. 


Number of 
organisms in 
filtered sample. 


Amount of 
sediment per 
100 c.c. 


Experiment i 
,, 2 . 
3 


242,000 
408,000 
6oo,OOO 


O-O22 

0-06 

0-048 


230,000 
139,000 
760,000 


O-O22 
O-O25 
O-O3 



The milk, after being drawn, has a temperature not much 
below that of the cow, and it should be at once cooled. If 
it is not cooled the temperature of the milk remains high 
for some time, as milk is a fluid in which the heat is trans- 
mitted or lost very slowly. The bacteria present will find 
the temperature suitable to their growth, and will multiply 
more rapidly than if the milk is cooled at once. For cooling 
the milk, an apparatus is used in which the milk is passed in 
a thin film over tubes filled with cold or iced water, according 
to the temperature of the weather. The milk, after cooling, 
should flow direct into sterilized bottles, or churns, which 
should not be opened before delivery to the customer 







FIG. 48. A Ulax filter. A shows the section of the filter ready for use. 
B is the cap held in position by the spring, which is caught at either end 
under a piece of metal. C is one of two wire gauze disks which hold 
D, a soft disk, between them, both C and D being held by B. 



247 



248 HYGIENE 

(see fig. 49). Unfortunately, however, this desirable pro- 
cedure is too seldom followed. The milk is by no means 
always cooled. Even if a cooler is used, it is not always 
properly cleaned, and is sometimes kept in a dirty shed or 
barn, or used out-of-doors. The milk may then receive 
further bacteria in the process, both from the dirty cooler 
and from the air of the shed. The milk is commonly 
poured into large churns which may be, but will often not 
have been, sterilized. The bacterial content of churns 




FIG. 49. Showing milk passing in a thin film over the cooler and 
thence into churns below. If desired it can also pass directly into bottles. 
In this latter case a special apparatus stops the flow when the amount the 
bottle is to hold has entered. 

which have been nominally cleaned, or have even been 
cleaned reasonably carefully, has been investigated, and it 
has been shown that ordinary cleansing still leaves a large 
number of bacteria behind. Thus Orr l states : " Four 
cans, which had been scalded by the farmer and which were 
ready to receive the milk, were each washed out with 100 
c.c. of distilled water, and the number of organisms per c.c. 
of this water was, in one 48,000, in another 2,325,000, in a 
third 19,960,000, and in a fourth 605,000. Specimen -i, 

1 Loc. cit. 



MILK PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY 



249 



which shows the best results, was obtained from a can in a 
town cowshed where the cans were filled with actually 
boiling water containing soda, and allowed to steep for half 
an hour. Specimens 2, 3, and 4 were cans simply filled with 
so-called boiling water." 

Recent work by Gumming and Mattick 1 gave the following 
figures : 

CLASSIFICATION OF CHURNS FOR INSPECTION OCTOBER QTH 
TO NOVEMBER 20TH, 1919. 





Clean and sweet. 


Milk absent, evil smell. 


Chum not 
washed, 
milk present. 


Churn badly 
washed. 


Dry. 


Wet. 


Dry. 


Wet. 


Number : 


81 


140 


5 


118 


8l 


75 


Per cent. : 


16 


28 


I 


24 


16 


15 




A 


B 


c 


D 


E 


F 



Total 500. 

Several of the results obtained from E were too numerous 
to be counted. F gave counts as high as 18,400,000 and 
5,300,000. The others varied from 170 to 6,200,000. If 
the churn containing 18,400,000 had 17 gallons of milk 
put into it, there would be about 240 per c.c. in the milk, 
derived from the churn alone. 

Further contamination takes place in transit, if churns 
with ventilation-holes in the lid are used, or if the cans are 
opened on the journey, or, as is also done, the milk is 
poured at the station from one churn into another. In 
the shop, again, it has further opportunities for contamina- 
tion. The counter-pan is probably far from sterile, and is 
often left open or partly exposed to the air. The passage 
in and out of customers to the shop, and the wind outside, 
will inevitably send some bacteria into the milk. If taken 
on the round, the milk on a hot day will gradually get 
warmed up and the bacteria will multiply ; the milk is 
often run through a tap, which is hardly likely to have been 
effectively cleansed, and the dust of the roads is blown 

i " Inquiry Concerning the State of Cleanliness of Empty Milk-churns " 
(Journal of Hygiene, 1920, vol. xix, p. 84). 



250 HYGIENE 

into the milk as it leaves the tap. The customer's jug will 
again probably add to the contamination, and the bad 
practice of leaving milk exposed in the home adds a further 
quota of bacteria to the already heavily laden fluid. 

It is evident that the methods of milk supply and delivery 
in this country still leave much to be desired. The heaviest 
and most dangerous sources of contamination are at the 
farm, and much could be done, without appreciable increase 
in expenditure, to improve the general cleanliness of the 
milk. The cows and the milking-sheds can be kept clean, 
and the milker can wash his hands, while the outlay on 
protected pails is not much greater than that required for 
open pails. These items alone would be a great improve- 
ment, and require only some education and intelligence. 
Other requirements involve some additional expenditure. 
For example, the milking-sheds should be specially con- 
structed, and the cows should preferably not live in the 
place in which they are to be milked. These points are, 
however, beyond the scope of this present work, and cannot 
be dwelt upon. 

Bottling on the farm is expensive, and a higher charge 
must be made for the milk. The bottles are liable to get 
broken in transit, and the charges made by the railway 
companies for carrying bottles are very much higher than 
those made for carrying milk in churns. It is hoped that 
enough has been said to give some idea' as to the nature and 
sources of the contamination of milk. 



CHAPTER XXI 

ON THE BACTERIA IN MILK AND STANDARDS OF PURITY 

SOMETHING has already been said as to the number of 
bacteria which are found in milk. The sources from whence 
they enter the milk have also been considered in outline. 
It is still necessary to consider the nature of the bacteria 
commonly found, their multiplication, and their effect on 
the milk. 

The pathogenic bacteria, when present, are usually found 
in numbers which are relatively insignificant as compared 
with the total number present. From the point of view 
of health the small numbers are of great importance, whereas 
in a general bacterial count they are almost negligible. 
They are usually derived either from the cow or from the 
milkers, although it is evidently possible that they might 
sometimes enter attached to particles of dust which had 
been contaminated. The vast majority of the bacteria in 
milk are non-pathogenic, at any rate in small numbers. It 
seems fairly evident, however, that gastric and intestinal 
disturbances can be produced in infants by the ingestion 
of large numbers of living non-pathogenic bacteria (cp. Park 
and Holt, p. 257). These bacteria in milk are derived 
from the air of the sheds or from dust, etc., blowing into the 
milk. Their variety is great, and includes spores, moulds 
of various kinds, sarcinse, cocci, and bacilli. Of these last 
there are many strains and varieties which are capable of 
splitting lactose with the production of lactic acid, and the 
commonest of these is known as Bacillus acidi lactici. The 
equation representing the change is : 

C 12 H 22 O n + H 2 - 4C3H 6 3 (CH 3 CHOH COOH.) 
Lactose. Lactic acid. 

251 



252 HYGIENE 

Some of these bacteria have other actions on the milk which 
are of less importance hygienically than the production of 
lactic acid. The presence of this last substance is detri- 
mental to the milk, both because the food-value of the 
milk is reduced by the splitting of the lactose, and also 
because the acid tends to coagulate the protein in the milk 
and to render it less digestible. Lactic acid, as such, has 
been stated to have a beneficial effect on the health of 
adults by improving the condition of the alimentary 
canal. This in itself is somewhat doubtful, and in any case 
is not here under consideration. The organism commonly 
associated with mastitis, and responsible for numerous 
epidemics of sore throat, is believed to be the Streptococcus 
lacticus, of which there are probably a considerable number 
of varieties widely distributed over the world. 

It has already been shown that the milk when first drawn 
ordinarily contains many fewer bacteria than on its delivery 
to the consumer. This is only in part due to additional 
contamination, but is mainly owing to the multiplication 
in the milk of those which gained access in the early stages. 
Under favourable conditions bacteria multiply rapidly. It 
is not practically possible for commercial purposes to obtain 
milk which is free from bacteria, so that it is necessary to 
render the conditions as unfavourable as possible for their 
multiplication. The most important condition is tempera- 
ture. The majority of the bacteria in milk, especially 
those forming lactic acid, grow rapidly at a temperature 
approximating to that of the human body and higher. 
Thus Slater l found at 45 C., the conditions as regards 
medium of growth being favourable, that the genera- 
tion time of the lactic acid bacillus was 21*5 minutes. 
For B. coli at 42 C. approximately the same time of 
generation was found by Lane-Claypon. 2 At lower tem- 
peratures the rate of growth is reduced, and at 20 C. it 
may be about three times as slow as at 42 C. for B. coli, 
while Slater obtained no growth from the lactic acid bacillus 

1 Trans. Chem. Soc., 1916, vol. cix, p. 2. 

2 Journ. of Hygiene, vol. ix, p. 239. 



BACTERIA IN MILK, STANDARDS OF PURITY 253 

at 20 C. At higher temperatures than the optimum the 
rate of growth is reduced, and falls with great rapidity until 
the death point is reached. Some are more resistant to 
heat than others, and survive even 100 C. for a short time ; 
but they do not multiply, and, on the reduction of the 
temperature, take a little time to recover from the effects 
of being heated. Milk when freshly drawn contains sub- 
stances which have been filtered out from the blood, which 
agglutinate bacteria, holding them together in clumps and 
preventing them from moving freely in the milk. These 
bodies are known as agglutinins. Their action in clumping 
bacteria has given the impression that milk contained 
substances which definitely destroyed bacteria. 1 Bacterial 
counts made on plates in the usual way showed a decrease 
in the bacteria present, within the first few hours after 
milking. Numerous investigators have worked on this 
subject and obtained analogous results. The most inter- 
esting results for the present purpose are those of Rosenau 
and McCoy, 2 who added a drop of a culture of B. typhosus 
to the milk, and, while demonstrating the reduction, showed 
that if the clump of bacteria were broken up the reduction 
was only apparent and not real. The effect is destroyed by 
heating, but is restored by adding a drop of typhoid serum 
which has agglutinating power. This is shown in the table 
on page 254. 

The power of agglutination soon passes off, and 4-6 
hours after the milk has been drawn its effects are no longer 
found. If the milk be heated the agglutination effect is 
abolished, and on the other hand is prolonged if the milk 
is kept cool. Thus, Myer Coplans 3 found that at blood- 
heat the inhibition lasted one hour only, but persisted for 
twenty- four hours if the milk was kept at o C. 

For all practical purposes nothing is gained by the 

1 When bacteria are plated with the object of counting their numbers 
each clump will count only as one bacterium, since it shows as one colony 
only. 

2 "The Germicidal Properties of Milk" (Journ. Med. Res., 1908, vol. 
xviii, p. 165). 

3 " On some Vital Properties of Milk" (Lancet, 1907, vol. ii, p. 1074). 



254 



HYGIENE 





Bacteria per loopful. 












8J hours. 


* 


At 


i 


*i 


6| 




Miirpil 




once. 


hours. 


hours. 


hours. 


Moderate 














shaking. 


pipette. 


B. typhosus : raw milk . 


1, 880 


1,380 


1, 060 


1,480 


1,980 


12,200 


boiled milk 


2,I2O 


4,O2O 


a. b. 


a. 


a. 


a. 








800,000 








one drop, i 
typhoid serum added J 


2,100 


2,040 


1,920 


2,300 


1,260 


a. b. 

20,000 


, , typhosus : boiled . 


2,280 


2,360 


7,020 


6,480 


10,860 


a. b. 














60,000 


,, typhosus in broth, \ 
serum added / 


1,830 


97 


2,920 


9, 1 80 


11,160 


a. b. 
100,000 


Organisms in milk alone . 


O 


I 


2 


2 


2 


46 



a = innumerable. 



b = about. 



presence of agglutinins, because milk, as delivered to the 
customer, is usually from 12 to 15 hours old, or even more, 
so that any inhibitory effect will have worn off. Organisms 
implanted into milk grow more readily in milk which has 
been heated than in raw milk. Here also, however, by 
the time the milk has been delivered there is no very great 
difference. At the same time the point may profitably 
be borne in mind in connection with the question of com- 
mercial pasteurisation which is considered in Chapter XXII. 
Milk undoubtedly forms a favourable medium for the 
growth of a large number of bacteria ; a good deal depends 
on the individual peculiarities of the organism, some having 
a more vigorous growth than others. In milk it has been 
shown that the growth of the lactic acid bacillus, and the 
consequent development of acidity due to the splitting of 
the lactose, inhibits the growth of certain organisms, which, 
even though they may multiply freely during the early 
hours after milking, are gradually killed off by the acidity 
of the medium. Since different samples of milk show 
different contents of bacteria, and those contents are made 
up of different proportions of the various strains, no figures 
can be given for the general rate of growth. Further, the 
temperature will have an important bearing on the multi- 



BACTERIA IN MILK, STANDARDS OF PURITY 255 

plication of bacteria, as already shown. The following table, 
taken from the work of Conn and Stocking l shows the 
gradual increase in the acid-forming bacteria of various 
kinds over the others. 



Time after milking. 


Total bacteria 
per c.c. 


Acid-forming 
per c.c. 


Liquefying 
per c.c. 


Per cent, of 
acid-forming. 


Fresh 


12,550 


1,250 


2OO 


IO 


Three hours 


12,250 


2.OOO 


2OO 


16 


Six hours. 


19,650 


2,250 


800 


23 


Nine hours 


56,900 


20,250 


55 


36 


Twelve hours . 


114,250 


68,400 


1,900 


60 






(Practically 










all Bacillus 










Acidi 










Lactici) 







This appears to be the common result of the fight between 
the bacteria if they are left long enough. Of the acid-forming 
varieties the lactic acid bacillus usually gains the victory. 
An average sample of milk which has turned " sour " will 
contain a large number of bacteria, of which some will be 
dying or dead, and the majority will be lactic-acid forming 
bacteria. The milk may have a disagreeable smell and taste, 
apart from the question of acidity, owing to the products 
arising from the action of the other varieties. Milk which 
does not appear " sour " when raw will sometimes, especially 
in hot weather, " curdle " on heating, when it might have 
taken some hours to curdle if it had not been heated. This 
is due to the action of the heat combined with the acidity, 
which results in a coagulation of the protein of the milk. 
A higher degree of acidity is necessary for coagulation in 
the absence of a high temperature that is, there must 
be more lactic acid. The caseinogen of milk does not 
coagulate on being heated without acid. Evidently the 
" souring " of milk is due to the multiplication of the lactic 
acid bacteria, and it is easy to see how the temperature at 
which the milk is kept will make a great difference in the 
keeping of the milk. Milk which is not cooled after milking, 

1 " Studies on the So-called Germicidal Action of Milk " (Rev. G6n. du 
Lait., 1902-3, vol. ii, pp. 2, 5, and 298). 



256 HYGIENE 

or which is left exposed to the sun, or placed near the fire or 
in a hot room, will have a great rise in its bacterial content 
as compared with a similar sample of milk which is placed 
in a cool spot or where devices for keeping it cool are used. 
The great value of keeping milk cool in transit will be appre- 
ciated, and it is regrettable that cooled vans for the trans- 
port of milk are not available in this country. 

The milk which a few years ago was sold as " sour milk " 
was heated and then inoculated with a special lactic acid 
bacillus. By this method a nicer milk is produced, as the 
products of the other strains, which are sometimes disagree- 
able, are eliminated, and only the pure effect of the lactic 
acid bacillus obtained. A good deal has been written on the 
value of lactic acid for infants. It is difficult to understand 
the reasons for such views, and they are not founded 
on any scientific investigations. The " Eiweissmilch " of 
Finkelstein, used by him in cases of summer diarrhcea, and 
other infections, is fermented, not in order to obtain lactic 
acid, but to reduce the amount of lactose in the final 
mixture. 

Some writers have argued that the bacteria in milk are 
beneficial to infants, and they even suggest that the tubercle 
bacillus may produce an immunity to the disease. There 
is no basis whatever for these statements. In fact, other 
attempts to protect against disease by the ingestion of anti- 
toxins or other protective substances have been signalized 
by failure, unless the walls of the alimentary canal are in 
an unhealthy condition. The protective substances are 
attached to protein molecules which are broken down in 
the process of digestion, and the protective action is de- 
stroyed. If immunity is to be acquired by milk it must be 
by the penetration of the bacteria from the alimentary 
canal into the tissues round it and there setting up a 
reaction. It is usually inadvisable to attempt inoculation 
with an unknown dose of living organisms ; better, if 
considered advisable, is a known dose of dead organisms, 
as is the case when inoculation is practised in medicine. 
Further, in view of the very few bacteria in milk as obtained 



BACTERIA IN MILK, STANDARDS OF PURITY 257 

by the infant from the breast, it is difficult to see why the 
addition of bacteria to the food of the artificially fed child 
should be an advantage. On the other hand, there is much 
evidence showing the detrimental effect of a high bacterial 
content in the milk of infants. A comprehensive investiga- 
tion was carried out by Park and Holt l in New York City, 
the results of which were published in 1903. They found 
that the children who received milk with a very high bac- 
terial content showed the worst results " not only by the 
death-rate, but by the amount and the severity of the 
diarrhoeal diseases, and the general appearance of the chil- 
dren as noted by the physicians." These observers attribute 
some of these effects to the accumulation of toxic bacterial 
products. 

There can be no doubt that milk should contain as few 
bacteria as reasonably possible, and standards have been 
laid down in order to secure a satisfactorily low bacterial 
content. Some account of these standards must now be 
given. 

The first introduction of standardized milk was made in 
America. Physicians specially interested in children found 
that the milk supplied in the ordinary way was of very 
unsatisfactory quality and in urgent need of improvement. 
They formed a body known as a Medical Milk Commission, 
and persuaded certain advanced dairymen to carry out 
reforms in milk production. These reforms included testing 
for tubercle, together with cleanliness of the cows, of the 
milkers, the pails, and of care in each stage of handling the 
milk, as has already been described in the previous chapter. 
As a result of experience, it was found that by adopting these 
methods the bacterial content of milk could be enormously 
reduced. 

The Medical Milk Commissions spread rapidly, and the 
majority of the large towns in the United States of America 
have these commissions at work. They are purely voluntary 

1 Park and Holt. "Report upon the Results with Different Kinds of 
Pure and Impure Milk in Infant Feeding in Tenement Houses and Insti- 
tutions in New York City " (Arch, of Fed., Dec. 1903). 



258 HYGIENE 

agencies which issue certificates to the farms whose methods 
and standards reach the requirements laid down by the 
Commissions. The milk is sold at a somewhat increased 
charge, and the farms pay for their inspection and super- 
vision, the whole being self-supporting. The standards 
laid down by the various commissions are very similar. The 
number of bacteria is not to exceed 10,000 per c.c. when 
delivered to the customer, and bacterial counts are made of 
samples of milk from each farm, usually twice a week. 
Standards are also laid down as to the fat content (varying 
from 3-5 to 4-5) and for the total solids which must be present. 
The farms are subject to inspection in every detail, and score- 
cards are kept showing the marks obtained on inspection. 
The milk is bottled on the farms, the bottles capped with 
special covers, and must be delivered cooled to the customers. 
Subject to the above restrictions and to satisfactory inspec- 
tion and bacterial and chemical results, the milk may be sold 
as " certified " by the Milk Commission. It is intended 
especially for infants and invalids. The bacterial count 
affords an astonishingly accurate test of the methods 
employed. It is impossible to reach a standard of 10,000 
per c.c. unless the greatest possible care is taken at each 
stage of production, even a small slip being likely to raise 
the number present above the limit. On the other hand, 
with practice and real care, the figure reached may be 
very much lower, amounting only to 1,000 or 2,000, and 
occasionally less. These figures cannot be reached without 
special apparatus and some outlay in relation to the dairy 
premises and to facilities for sterilizing the pails and bottles, 
and for cooling on transit in summer. It can practically 
not be obtained except by bottling on the farm. Evidently 
therefore the producer is entitled to make a higher charge 
for this milk. 

It is certain, however, that an immense reduction in 
bacteria can be effected by attention to the most ordinary 
requirements of cleanliness, of cattle, of milkers, and of 
utensils. Even with some unnecessarily careless methods 
the count can be reduced to a few hundred thousands per 



BACTERIA IN MILK, STANDARDS OF PURITY 259 

c.c. instead of the many millions frequently found. It has 
already been pointed out that the bacteria destroy the 
food-value of the milk by breaking down the lactose, and 
some varieties will break down protein ; also the souring of 
milk renders it unfit for sale. 

In order to stop the ravages of the bacteria, milk may 
be pasteurised, 1 which, if properly carried out, reduces the 
bacterial content. Numerous American cities have laid 
down regulations for the milk sold within their boundaries, 
giving the maximum which may be found in both raw and 
pasteurised milk. The milks are " graded " according to the 
number of bacteria found, and it must be stated whether it 
has been previously pasteurised or not. 2 Pasteurised milk 
is held in America to be unfit for infants, and, if it is to be 

1 The principles and processes are described in Chapter XXII. 

2 The State of New York issued regulations which came into force in 
November 1914, and which described explicitly the nature of the grades 
in milk. Briefly, they amount to the following : 

Grade A, Raw. This milk must not at any time previous to the delivery 
to the consumer contain more than 60,000 bacteria per c.c., and such 
cream not more than 300,000 bacteria per c.c. It must be delivered 
within thirty-six hours from the time of milking, unless a shorter time 
shall be prescribed by the local authorities. It must be delivered to the 
customers only in containers sealed at the dairy, and must show its grade 
and the name and address of the dealer. 

Grade A, Pasteurised. Such cream or milk, before pasteurisation, must 
not contain more than 200,000 bacteria per c.c. After pasteurisation, and 
previous to the delivery to the consumer, it must not contain more than 
30,000 per c.c. in the milk and 150,000 per c.c. in the cream. It must be 
delivered in sealed containers and labelled " Grade A, Pasteurised." 

Grade B, Raw. Such milk must not at any time previous to delivery 
to the consumer contain more than 200,000 bacteria per c.c., and such 
cream not more than 750,000 bacteria per c.c. 

Regulations as to delivery as for Grade A. 

Grade B, Pasteurised. Such cream or milk, before pasteurisation, must 
not contain more than 300,000 bacteria per c.c. After pasteurisation 
such milk must not contain more than 100,000 bacteria per c.c., and such 
cream not more than 500,000 per c.c. The milk must be delivered within 
thirty-six hours after pasteurisation, and such cream within forty-eight 
hours after pasteurisation. It must be labelled " Grade B." 

Grade C, Raw and Pasteurised. This grade has no prescribed bacterial 
standard, but must be delivered within forty-eight hours from the time 
of milking in the case of the raw milk, or within forty-eight hours after 
pasteurisation. 

The cows from which the milk of Grade A is obtained must have been 



260 HYGIENE 

heated again in the home, it should certainly not be used for 
this purpose. The grading of milk involves a good deal of 
machinery, seeing that it includes bacterial counts, inspec- 
tion, and so forth. It should be noted that the graded milk 
is of a lower standard than that " certified " by the Medical 
Milk Commission. 

In this country the only legal standard has been in regard 
to the fat content, which has been fixed at 3 per cent. In 
addition, milk must not be adulterated or diluted in any 
way. 

It should be noted that the cream is richer in bacteria than 
the milk below it. The fat globules of cream in some way 
catch the bacteria and carry them up to the surface in 
" rising." 

No bacterial standard is required in this country for the 
general milk supply. Some interesting figures of a bacterial 
content of milks from high-class dairies were obtained by 
certain investigators, 1 and it was shown that many of the 
samples taken had a bacterial count of several millions per 
c.c. The milks were supplied to seven child-welfare centres, 
and twenty-seven samples were examined. 

In 1920 the Ministry of Health, in co-operation with the 
Ministry of Food, decided to grant licences to standard farms 
for the production of two special classes of milk Grade A 

tested at least once in the previous year with tuberculin, and any tuber- 
culous cow must be excluded from the herd. 

For Grade B the cows must be healthy, as disclosed by an annual physical 
examination. 

The farms producing all these classes of milk are subjected to inspection, 
and are themselves graded by a system of score-cards. By this method 
marks are allowed for the various items concerned in the production of 
milk, and farms supplying Grade A milk must reach a higher percentage 
of milk than those supplying milk of Grade B, and these, again, a higher 
percentage than those supplying milk of Grade C. 

The regulations issued by the Department of Health for the city of 
New York define milk of Grade A as being suitable for infants and children, 
Grade B suitable for adults, and Grade C for cooking and manufacturing 
purposes only. 

The regulations of New York City for the farms and dairies connected 
with the milk supply are extremely detailed. 

1 Publications of the National Clean Milk Society. 



BACTERIA IN MILK, STANDARDS OF PURITY 261 

and Grade A (certified) . The farms are inspected both before 
the certificate is granted and at intervals during the period 
of production of the special milk. Score-cards have been 
prepared for the purpose of allotting marks for the con- 
dition of the cows as regards disease, for the equipment of 
the farm, and for the methods used in production of milk. 
Certain minimum totals must be obtained. The cows must 
be tested with tuberculin so as to ensure that they are free 
from tuberculosis within the limits of certainty secured by 
the test. Grade A (certified) must be bottled on the farm 
and the bottles closed with appropriate fixed caps, which 
cannot be removed without such removal being shown. The 
cap must bear the name and address of the producer, or of 
the farm where it is produced, the day of production, and the 
words " Grade A (certified) milk." The milk, on delivery 
to the consumer, must not contain more than 30,000 
bacteria per c.c., nor B. coli in one-tenth c.c. Grade A 
milk can be despatched in sealed churns from the farm 
and can be bottled at the town dairy, subject to the equipment 
and methods employed there being considered satisfactory 
by the inspector sent by the Ministry. 

Both these milks will be of a higher standard of purity 
than the average supply, and command a higher price. 
They are specially suitable for infants and invalids, the 
additional cost at present prices making them almost pro- 
hibitive for ordinary purposes. 

If bacterial counts of milk obtained from retailers at 
random are made, it will probably be found that here and 
there samples will be well below the figures mentioned above 
for the ordinary milk supply. This would almost certainly 
be due to the fact that the milk had been heated (pasteurised) 
in order to preserve it, and the greater number of bacteria 
thereby killed, so that they no longer grow when the sample 
is plated out. The pasteurisation of the milk supply is 
considered in the next chapter. 



CHAPTER XXII 

ON THE HEATING OF MILK AND ITS CARE IN THE HOME 

THE practical impossibility of producing milk free from 
bacteria has been explained in the preceding chapters. It 
has also been shown that it is impossible to be certain that 
any given sample of milk is free from pathogenic germs. 
These last, while numerically small, even when present, are 
more to be feared than the other very numerous varieties, 
which, however, render the milk unpleasant to take when 
they have reached great numbers. 

Milk has often to be carried long distances, and is usually 
not delivered to the customer before some eighteen or more 
hours have elapsed after milking. The prime cause of 
difficulty lies in the bacteria which are present ; and the 
position is best met by heating the milk and thereby killing 
the germs. 

The problem is not, however, met by merely making this 
statement, for many questions arise in connection with it. 
Among the most important ones are the following : 

(1) Can milk be heated without detriment ? 

(2) If so, to what temperature can it, or should it, be 

heated ? 

(3) What methods are best to employ ? 

(4) At what stage of its transit from cow to consumer 

should the heating be carried out ? 
These various questions cannot be considered entirely 
independently, since they overlap on certain important 
items. Moreover, certain matters have not been investi- 
gated as fully as might be desired, and there are differences 
of opinion among the experts on the various branches. 
More serious, however, is the divergence of views which 

262 



HEATING OF MILK AND ITS CARE 263 

has arisen from the loose terminology which has been 
employed in talking about milk which has been heated. 
The term " heated " is here used deliberately, since it is wide 
in its application, and covers all the methods and tempera- 
tures which are employed. In the literature terms such 
as " boiled " or " sterilized " are used, often without any 
careful explanation of the precise method employed, and 
too frequently the same term will be found to have been 
used by different authors to imply different processes. 

The processes commonly used in heating milk can be 
included under one or other of the terms " pasteurised," 
" boiled," or " sterilized." At the same time further 
statements are needed as to the length of time of heating, 
and, except in the case of boiled milk, the temperature 
reached should also be stated. 

" Pasteurised " milk means that the milk is heated 
gradually up to a temperature which is below boiling point ; 
that when the given temperature is reached the milk is then 
cooled quickly. This is only a general statement, and in 
practice the milk may be maintained for some minutes at 
the highest temperature used ; secondly, the temperature 
used varies considerably ; thirdly, the degree of cooling 
used is not necessarily the same. It will be seen, therefore, 
that the term " pasteurised " requires some qualification. 
The processes employed are described more fully below. 

"Boiled" milk has been used to describe any process 
where the milk is made to reach the temperature of the 
boiling point of water, namely, 100 C. or 212 F. The 
boiling point of milk is slightly higher than that of water, 
but this is not taken into consideration. The term is 
sometimes used . when the process in question is really 
pasteurisation ; on the other hand, the milk is often spoken 
of as sterilized when the process is merely boiling. Again, 
the length of time over which the temperature is maintained is 
often not stated, whereas this is a point of great importance. 

" Sterilized " milk should be milk which has been treated 
so as to destroy the bacteria present, rendering it sterile. 
If heat be employed for this purpose the temperature used 



264 HYGIENE 

must be well above boiling point and must be prolonged, 
in order to destroy the spores which are almost certainly 
present. Yet the word is often used to denote boiling. 
It is the inaccuracy of statement which has led to much of 
the difference of opinion in regard to the heating of milk. 

It is necessary to consider the general changes which take 
place on heating milk and at what temperature these com- 
mence. The majority of the pathogenic bacteria are killed 
at a temperature well below 100 C., although some of the 
nonpathogenic ones will survive this temperature for a time. 
For all ordinary purposes, however, the temperature reached 
in pasteurisation is sufficient to render the milk bacterio- 
logically harmless. Since the whole object of heating is to 
destroy the greater number of the bacteria, there is clearly 
no object whatever in employing a higher temperature. 
At the present time, for practical purposes, pasteurisation is 
undoubtedly the process which should be used. 

Slight chemical changes take place on pasteurisation. 
The ferments which are of no biological importance are 
destroyed ; the protein is rendered slightly more digestible. 
There is some degree of precipitation of calcium citrate, and 
it is possible that a part of the lact-albumin is coagulated 
and deposited. The evidence is not very convincing on 
this last point, and in general the changes may be regarded 
as of little or no importance. There is no evidence to show 
that any one of the accessory food factors is affected 
adversely by pasteurisation. 

When milk is heated to boiling point there is some slight 
further destruction of bacteria, and the protein appears to 
be rendered rather more digestible. If the temperature of 
100 C. is only just reached there would seem to be very 
little distinction between this method and pasteurisation. 
If, however, the heating be prolonged, important chemical 
changes take place. The sugar tends to caramelise and a 
brownish tinge appears in the milk. The flavour alters, and 
this change is much disliked by many. The lact-albumin 
is affected, and will coagulate ; if the heat be maintained for 
so long a period as one hour it has been shown that the 



HEATING OF MILK AND ITS CARE 265 

anti-scorbutic factor is damaged or destroyed. From the 
practical point of view, with which this book is concerned, 
such a procedure is entirely without purpose. It is detri- 
mental and expensive, in addition to being a process almost 
impossible to carry out in the home. Milk, when boiled 
over the flame, froths up and over the pan, and is partly 
wasted and makes much mess for the housewife. The 
machinery required on a large scale for heating milk to a 
temperature above pasteurisation is elaborate, and as a 
whole available only in laboratories. The same remarks apply 
generally to any process of " sterilization " of milk as a fluid. 
In practice, both on a large scale and in the home, the 
process to be employed is essentially that of pasteurisation. 
It is this process alone which will be described here. 

The answer to the first question is, then, that milk can 
be heated without detriment when the process employed 
is pasteurisation. It is now necessary to consider the 
temperatures concerned in pasteurisation. These vary in 
different processes. When employed for commercial pur- 
poses the temperature is kept as low as is consistent with 
the destruction of the bacteria, in order to avoid the 
use of more fuel than is absolutely necessary, since this 
would add to the cost. The temperatures used in the 
process vary from 140 F. (60 C.), to 170 F. (767 C.) 
according to the practice of the firm individually concerned. 
Many investigations have been carried out to ascertain the 
temperatures at which the pathogenic germs likely to be 
present are destroyed. The results obtained vary. It may 
be assumed, however, by comparing the figures given, that 
a momentary heating up to 170 F. will suffice, or a lower 
temperature lasting over a more prolonged period : 140 F. 
is on the low side for safety, since evidently in any apparatus 
used there will be an early period when the temperature is 
rising, the effect of which will be added to that produced by 
the highest temperature, so that milk which has just been 
brought momentarily to a temperature of, for example, i6oF., 
will have been exposed over a longer period to a temperature 
sufficiently high to destroy the harmful bacteria. 



266 HYGIENE 

Numerous workers have studied the thermal death-point 
of the tubercle bacillus, under varying conditions and with 
different results. Taking the general results, it seems that 
it is wiser to employ a temperature over 140 F., and 160 F. 
is probably desirable for safety. 1 

There are two main processes used in pasteurisation on 
a large scale: the "holder" and the "flash." In the 
former the milk is heated to the temperature decided upon, 
and is held at that temperature for a short period, usually 
about two minutes, before cooling. In the latter process 
the temperature to be reached is just touched and the 
milk promptly cooled. As a whole, the flash process 
requires less fuel and is more widely used than the holder 
process. 

It is stated that the cream-line is injured if the milk is 
heated to above 150 F., and for this reason many people 
are reluctant to use a higher temperature. 

When pasteurisation is undertaken in the home the 
temperature is generally allowed to rise considerably above 
that employed commercially, and, while not reaching the 
boiling point, often reaches between 180 and 200 F., or 
80 to 90 C. No detriment is done to the milk by such a 
temperature, and it is undoubtedly safer. 

The methods of pasteurisation now require to be dealt 
with. Those employed commercially differ from those 
employed in the home, and will be considered first. The 
object in commercial pasteurisation is to secure an even 
heating of all parts of the milk without loss of available heat. 
This is more readily achieved by means of coils in or around 
which the milk is brought into near contact with hot water 
or steam. In an apparatus where the milk circulates in the 
coils the heat is applied outside the coils, or the milk may be 
outside and the hot water inside. Again, there may be two 
tubes, one inside the other, for milk and water respectively 
(cf. fig. 50). The two systems for milk and water must, 

i Some dairymen consider it advisable to keep the milk at a low tempera- 
ture, say 145 F., for a longer period, thus increasing the effect on -the 
bacteria without risk of injury to the cream-line. 



HEATING OF MILK AND ITS CARE 267 

of course, be entirely separate. Unless the milk is arranged 
in relatively thin layers, either in- or outside the tube, the 
heating is apt to be irregular, and one part may be over- 
heated and the other not heated enough. If a large con- 
tainer is used for the milk, then some form of revolving 
paddles and of stirrer, charged inside with hot water or 
steam, must be used (see figs. 50 and 51). Frequently the 



HOT WATER. 

INLET WATEP M/LK 




EA/O V/EW S/DE V/EW 

p/oc connections removed 
to ehow doub/e tubes. 

FIG. 50. Showing double tubes in apparatus for pasteurising milk. 

milk is passed through two sets of coils, and that portion 
whose heating has been completed may be carried so as to 
pass in a coil which is surrounded by the incoming cold 
milk. By this arrangement the outgoing milk is cooled 
and the incoming warmed. Various devices are in use for 
the purpose of utilizing the heat, which must be given up by 
the outgoing milk. One such is shown in fig. 52. After 
heating the milk must be passed through some form of cooler, 



268 



HYGIENE 



in order to bring the temperature down without delay. 
This is of importance, since otherwise the surviving bacteria 
would multiply rapidly in the warm fluid. Milk is slow to 
heat in bulk, and also slow to cool ; hence tie necessity for 



M/LK 
OUTLET 



\THERMOMETEP 



M/LH 
/A/LET 




STEAM 
MLET 



STEAM AND 
-WATER 
JACKET 



REVOLV/NG 
"PADDLE 



M/LH 
'CHAMBER 



FIG. 51. A simple pasteurising apparatus, 
revolving paddles. 



The milk is stirred by 



handling it in thin layers. After cooling the milk is passed 
direct into bottles or churns for transit. 

Certain difficulties arise, or are liable to arise, in connec- 
tion with commercial pasteurisation. The arrangements 
for heating do not always work as smoothly and regularly 



*"t J^wjSXxz 



HEATING OF MILK AND ITS CARE 269 

as might be wished, and variations in temperature arise, 
usually resulting in insufficient heating ; also the apparatus 
is difficult to keep clean. 

The first of these difficulties depends upon the apparatus 
itself, but even the 
best ones will go 
wrong at times, and 
only a few dairies 
can afford a relief 
apparatus in the 
event of a break- 
down. Then the 
temperatures require 
watching, and this 
should be done by 
someone of sufficient 
intelligence and 
training to appreci- 
ate the importance 
of accuracy. Failing 
such care, there may 
be days on which 
the temperature is 
considerably below 
that required, or it 
may rise irregularly, 
and beyond that in- 
tended. 

Cleanliness is by 

, FIG. 52. Showing a method of utilizing 

the heat of the pasteurised milk to warm the 
Secure, for there must cold in-coming fluid and vice versa. 

of necessity be coils 

or pipes, together with bends, outlets, etc., where milk from 
the previous occasions will accumulate unless the whole 
apparatus is scrupulously cleaned after each use. Precisely 
the same sort of thing happens as in milking machines, and 
in churns (cp. p. 249), and the milk, after pasteurising, may 
easily be recontaminated in passing from the pasteurising 




270 



HYGIENE 



to the cooling coil. This is well shown by the figures of 
Pennington and McClintock l given below. 



Material examined. 


Count per c.c. 


24 hours later. 
Count pet c.c. 


Milk from first tank . 




1,504,000 


25,380,000 




, 


second tank 


t 


2,250,000 


37,800,000 




t 


pasteurising coil, 155 F. 


, 


18,000 


360,000 




t 


first cooling coil, 75 F. 




33,000 


I,O2O,OOO 




t 


second cooling coil, 64 F. 




2,160,000 


3,780,000 




' 


after bottling, ready for consumer 


2,880,000 


45,900,000 



IT 



Material examined. 


Count per c.c. 


24 hours later. 
Count per c.c. 


Milk from original can .... 


42,666 


3OO,OOO 


first tank ..... 


340,000 


7OO,OOO 


,, second tank .... 


620,000 


3,420,000 


pasteurising coil, 158-160 F. 


16,800 


240,000 


,, first cooling coil, 78 F. 


19,666 


420,000 


,, second cooling coil, 34 F. . 


178,666 


1,560,000 


,, bottled, ready for consumer 


446,000 


2,880,000 



Pasteurisation, when properly carried out, reduces the 
number of bacteria, and thus preserves milk for a con- 
siderably longer period than would otherwise be the case. 
If badly or insufficiently done it may, as shown above, 
actually increase the number of bacteria present, or it may 
engender a false security. In this country milk is supposed 
to be sold raw, but in fact a great deal of milk has been 
pasteurised before sale. In other countries, as on the Con- 
tinent and in America, where the sale of pasteurised milk 
is definitely known and permitted, large central stations 
have been established, and the milk is brought there direct 
from the surrounding farms, is pasteurised in bulk, and sold 
as pasteurised milk. In England, a few large dairies and 
some societies have a pasteurising plant which can deal 
with their own or a part of their own milk supply. A great 

1 McClintock and Pennington. Quoted by Eastwood, Report to the 
L.G.B. New Series, No. i, 1909. 



HEATING OF MILK AND ITS CARE 271 

deal of pasteurisation is carried on by small dealers, who 
apply heat in order to make the milk keep till the next day, 
or longer. The milk may even be heated on two separate 
days. 

Thus, it may become merely a device to enable milk to be 
sold as raw milk at a later period than should be the case. 
If milk which has been pasteurised becomes reinfected, the 
bacteria grows more rapidly than in raw milk, and, if such 
milk is handled in the careless way common in this country, 
it will certainly receive fresh accessions of bacteria. 

Most complex fluids, including milk, undergo chemical 
changes on standing or on keeping, also with much shaking 
or jolting. Although the precise nature of the changes is 
not known, there is evidence that stale milk, even if not 
soured, has undergone changes. Many housewives rightly 
make a practice of heating their milk for the household as 
soon as it has been delivered. If milk which has been 
pasteurised is sold as raw milk it will be heated again in 
many houses and will thus have been heated twice before 
consumption. Of recent years, with the introduction of 
pasteurisation on a large scale, it has been found that milk 
which has been heated twice is not a suitable food for infants, 
having a tendency to induce infantile scurvy. It is not 
known how far such tendencies are due to the long interval 
which will almost certainly have elapsed between the 
drawing of the milk and its consumption, or how far the 
second heating may be the detrimental factor. More 
precise knowledge, while of interest, does not affect the 
general point, and it should be clearly borne in mind that 
artificially fed infants, whose sole food is milk, should not 
be given milk which has been heated on two separate 
occasions. 

If pasteurised milk is sold as raw milk there is a very 
good chance that it will be again heated in the home before 
being given to the infant, which is most undesirable. There 
can be no doubt that milk delivered for infants should be 
delivered raw, both in order to ensure that it is as fresh as 
may be possible, and also to prevent a second heating. 



272 HYGIENE 

The American regulations for the sale of milk very rightly 
insist on such milk being regarded as unfit for infants. 

For adults and cooking there are great advantages in the 
sale of pasteurised milk. It has been shown in Chapter XVII 
that the anti-scorbutic value of milk is very small, and it is 
unnecessary, in view of the mixed dietary of individuals 
older than infants, to rely upon milk for the supply of this 
factor. The milk keeps longer, and, if the pasteurisation is 
well carried out, ensures freedom from germs of disease. 
Unfortunately, if the pasteurisation plant should be out of 
order, the milk may be sold as pasteurised when it is really 
raw, and possibly infected. An example of this was fur- 
nished on a large scale in Chicago a few years ago. A 
widespread outbreak of sore throats suddenly arose, which 
rapidly subsided, showing, however, a further rise a few 
days later. The number of persons attacked is given as 
10,000, and it was believed that this was much too low : a 
number of deaths occurred as the result of the epidemic. 
The cause of the outbreak was traced to a dairy, and it was 
found that on each occasion, a few days before the outbreak, 
the pasteurising plant had not been in order. The con- 
tamination was due to streptococcal infection, and was 
traced to an outbreak of mastitis in the cows of one of the 
farms supplying the dairy. An interesting point arises in 
the fact that the same mixed milk was supplied raw to a 
children's hospital, where the pasteurisation was. done 
on the premises. The hospital staff, however, were supplied 
with milk pasteurised at the dairy. None of the patients 
suffered from any disturbance, but many of the nursing staff 
were attacked. It is evident that if pasteurisation is 
carried out on a large scale, and the milk sold as pasteurised, 
proper precautions must be taken to guard against a break- 
down of the apparatus. 

Taking all the points into consideration, it is probably 
advisable to arrange for proper pasteurisation of the whole 
milk supply at large dairies, under proper supervision. The 
milk so treated should be sold as " pasteurised," and it should 
be clearly stated that it is unsuitable for infants. In 



HEATING OF MILK AND ITS CARE 273 

Chicago it appeared that the pasteurised milk was not sold 
until some two or three days after it had been heated, and 
this no doubt would be a common practice with a system 
of commercial pasteurisation. This alone renders it highly 
undesirable for infants. It cannot be too emphatically 
stated that milk for infants should be delivered as soon as 
possible after milking, and should be raw when delivered. 

The use of heated, as against raw, milk is discussed in 
Chapter XXVI, and in the present chapter it is assumed that 
milk should be heated, in order to destroy any pathogenic 
organisms which may be present. 

Pasteurisation in the home is carried out on a different 
plan from that on a large scale. It is preferable here to 
place the milk in a suitable receptacle, and the receptacle in 
a pan, where it is surrounded by water. The surrounding 
water should be cold to start with, and should be allowed 
to rise to the boil and remain boiling for not more than 
two or three minutes. Only milk which is to be used for 
infants or for drinking purposes need be so treated ; that for 
cooking will be heated in the process of cooking. 

If the milk is for persons other than infants on the bottle, 
it is best heated, either in a double saucepan or, failing this, 
in a covered receptacle which is allowed to stand in a sauce- 
pan of water. The receptacle used should be thoroughly 
cleansed with hot water and soda ; rinsed with hot water 
(preferably boiling) and then placed to dry, bottom upwards. 
It should not be dried out with a cloth, but allowed to drain. 
If a double saucepan is used, the inner pan should be kept 
for milk only. If a receptacle in a saucepan is used, the 
receptacle must be covered either with a closely-fitting lid 
or a piece of gauze, or, if the neck be narrow, it may be lightly 
plugged with a piece of cotton-wool ; the water in the outer 
pan should then reach as nearly as possible up to the level 
of the milk in the receptacle. 1 In a double saucepan the 

1 If the receptacle rests on the bottom of the saucepan it is apt to bump 
in boiling ; this is avoided if it be placed on a stand around and under 
which the water can circulate freely. Such stands can be purchased 
under the name of saucepan guards. 

18 



274 HYGIENE 

level of the water is of no account, as the temperature rises 
in the apparatus as a whole. After the water has boiled 
for not more than three minutes the inner pan or receptacle 
should be taken out and placed to stand at once in a basin 
or other vessel of cold water. This water will become 
warm in a few minutes, and should be thrown out, and 
fresh cold water supplied. In hot weather it is advisable 
to change the water every few hours. On no account should 
the milk be transferred from the vessel in which it has been 
heated^ to another ; the vessel has been partly sterilized by 
heating, and the milk should be kept in it, portions of milk 
being poured out of the vessel as they are required for use. 
Further, the milk should be kept covered, both during and 
after heating, the cover or plug only being momentarily 
removed to allow of some of the milk being poured out. If 
the cover is removed while the milk is hot, a skin will form, 
and, also, will allow dust and dirt to blow in. As has 
already been mentioned, milk is a fluid which both heats 
and cools slowly on account of its low power of conduction. 
When the water outside is boiling the milk has not reached 
that temperature, and does not reach 100 C. until the water 
outside has been boiling for a considerable time. In order 
that a temperature sufficient to destroy the pathogenic 
bacteria should be reached in the middle of the pan, it is 
advisable not to have a pan or receptacle that is too wide 
across. If a double saucepan is taken it should not con- 
tain more than three pints. This, however, will probably 
suffice for any but a large household, since the milk for 
cooking would not be heated in this way. Again, a longer 
heating than the above will affect the cream ; two or three 
minutes in boiling water does not affect the rising of the 
cream, but five to ten minutes spoils the cream-line. 

If the milk is for infants on the bottle, it is advisable to 
prepare the milk mixture first of all, and to fill as many 
bottles as are required for the feeds (and if possible an extra 
one for safety, in case one should break), and to place these 
on a stand in a pan. The bottles should have the necks 
lightly plugged with cotton-wool, and the water outside 



HEATING OF MILK AND ITS CARE 275 

should reach the level of the milk inside. The heating is 
carried out as already described, and the bottles, after 
heating, are plunged at once into cold water. Occasionally 
one will break, but not often. When required for the child 
the plug is removed, and a teat put on, the whole being 
placed in warm water for a minute or two to take off 
" the chill." The heating should be done only once in the 
twenty-four hours, and, if properly carried out and the milk 
kept cool, there will be no difficulty from the souring of the 
milk. 

The whole process is most simple, and only requires 
reasonable care and intelligence. The author has frequently 
explained the process, but too commonly people either 
persist in boiling for a longer period, when the milk tastes 
boiled and the cream-line is affected, or they seem unable to 
keep the milk covered, and equally unable to refrain from 
the temptation of pouring the hot milk into another recep- 
tacle, generally a jug. This, while clean in appearance, has 
probably been dried out with a tea-cloth or other rag which 
is loaded with bacteria, therewith reinfecting the freshly 
heated milk. In such circumstances, also, a skin is formed 
on top and, further, the milk does not keep well. It is 
much simpler just to keep the milk covered in the receptacle 
in which it has been heated. Fig. 53 shows a suitable 
apparatus for the home pasteurisation of infants' milk, but 
much simpler arrangements can readily be devised. 

There is little advantage to be gained by prolonging the 
period of heating. The great mass of bacteria are destroyed 
in the first few minutes. Ayers and Johnson l showed that, 
even at a temperature of 130 F., the living bacteria were 
reduced in the first half-hour from 2,530,000 to 75,000, 
while a further heating for 2-J hours only brought about a 
reduction to 9,200. At a temperature of 140 F. the 
reduction effected in the first half-hour was from 2,330,000 

1 Ayers and Johnson, (i) " Ability of Streptococci to Survive Pas- 
teurisation," Journ. of Agric. Res., 1914, vol. ii, p. 321 ; (2) " A Study of 
the Bacteria which Survive Pasteurisation, " Bureau of Animal Ind.,BulL, 
161, 1913. 



276 



HYGIENE 



to 20,000. It is probable that the majority were destroyed 
in the first few minutes. 

In the process of condensing milk for sale as condensed 
milk the pathogenic bacteria are destroyed, and the non- 
pathogenic ones are in great part killed by the prolonged 
heating, and are then prevented from multiplying by the 
sugar added as a preservative. 

When milk is dried, although the rollers over which it is 
passed in the more usual processes are heated to 120 C., 




FIG. 53. An apparatus for home pasteurisation. 

Delepine l found that the temperature of the milk, as it 
dried, probably did not exceed 96 C., and that the time of 
exposure to this temperature was not more than 3*3 seconds. 
In samples of milk artificially infected with tubercle bacilli 
he found that some still survived after heating. For prac- 
tical purposes, however, it may be assumed that dried milk 
is free from pathogenic bacteria, and that the other forms 
have been sufficiently reduced to be neglected. Also, they 
do not multiply in the dry material. 

1 Report to the Local Government Board, New Series, 97, 1914. 



CHAPTER XXIII 

THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 

DURING the first few months of life the human infant should 
be fed on milk only. The young of all the mammalia have 
this fluid, which contains all that is required for their sus- 
tenance, during a varying period after birth, provided for 
them by nature. The young of different species are born 
in varying stages of maturity, and the length of time in 
which they are wholly dependent upon their mother's milk 
varies with it. For example, guinea-pigs are born in a high 
state of maturity. Within not more than a few hours, and 
often within a much shorter period, they are running about 
actively in the cage eating anything they can find. They 
generally have, at any rate, a few teeth well developed at 
birth. Such animals are not wholly dependent upon their 
mothers' milk for more than a very short period, although 
they avail themselves of it for some days. 

In the human species the infant is born in an immature 
state and requires its mother's milk for several months 
until its masticating and digestive apparatus has got into 
a sufficiently developed condition to be able to utilize 
other foods. 

A fluid dietary is clearly indicated until such time as the 
infant's teeth are sufficiently developed to be able to bite 
solid food. When this time arrives, which should be about 
the eighth month, the milk ceases to be suitable as the sole 
food. Again, the digestive apparatus is best adapted for 
milk during the early months, but later is able to deal with 
other substances. 

This capacity would not appear to be dependent only upon 
the presence or absence of ferments in the several parts of 

277 



278 HYGIENE 

the alimentary canal, since all the ferments afterwards 
required are present not only at birth, but in many instances 
for some time before birth. The saliva contains ptyalin at 
birth, and is capable of splitting starch, although its power 
of doing so is weak. This power does not increase until 
about the sixth month of life, after which it is said to be 
stimulated by the presence of starch in the food. General 
experience has shown the inadvisability of giving starch to 
young infants, and it may safely be assumed that, had any 
such substance been necessary, nature would have provided 
for it. The presence of a weak ferment in the saliva does 
not therefore mean that the infant should be given food 
which will utilize it, and neither is it necessary or even 
advisable to give starch at the first moment that the 
ferment becomes present in more powerful form, namely, 
at six months of age ; it is usually better to wait for a 
further two, or even three, months before definitely adding 
starch to the diet. 

Gastric digestion also takes place in the young infant, 
but the amount of acid found is very small, or it may be 
absent. The most pronounced action is that of rennin, but 
pepsin is also present. It is, however, difficult to suppose 
that these are functioning normally during the few days 
after birth, since during this time proteins must be absorbed 
unchanged, as will be explained, in connection with the 
transference of immunity (see below). 

Pancreatic ferments are present in the pancreatic juice, 
although in smaller amounts than in later life. Intestinal 
ferments appear to be similar to those of the adult with one 
important exception. A special ferment, lactase, is found in 
the intestine of young mammals ; it splits lactose with great 
facility. The ferment is present before birth, and persists 
for some time afterwards ; but it gradually disappears, and 
is not capable of being re-established. The ferment appar- 
ently ceases to be secreted when the age of a mixed dietary 
arrives, and cannot be brought back by giving even large 
quantities of lactose. 1 

1 Cp. Plimmer, Journ. of Phys., 1906, vol. 35, p. 20. 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 279 

Provision is thus made for the digestion of all the food-stuffs 
in the milk. The differences in composition of human and 
cow's milk is shown on page 228, and also the alterations in 
composition with the stage of lactation. The importance 
of the lacto-globulin was pointed out, since it is to this 
portion of the protein that the immune substances are 
attached. Much work has been done in the transference 
of immunity and our knowledge is fairly complete. There 
can no longer be any doubt that whatever immunity is 
found in the blood of the mother passes out into the milk by 
means of the globulin to which it is attached and is taken up 
unchanged into the blood of the offspring. The immunity 
thus conferred is of the passive variety, and is transferred 
in a much weakened form. The strength of immunity in 
the milk has been estimated in certain cases and found to be 
between one-tenth and one-fifteenth of that of the blood. 
The experimental work which has been carried out has been 
done by producing in the mother an acquired immunity to 
some known body and studying the transference of the 
substances formed in response in the mother's blood. 

It has already been explained that the proteins must be 
absorbed directly without digestion for the purpose of this 
transference, but it is very important to note that the pro- 
tein absorbed should be that of its own species. Foreign 
protein is absorbed, but causes considerable disturbances. 
An artificially fed infant suffers from the foreign protein 
which it has to take in. The period over which this in- 
gestion can occur is short, being probably not more than a 
few days, after which digestion becomes established and the 
protein is broken down with the destruction of the associated 
immunizing properties. Although this particular advantage 
of early breast-feeding ceases, it does not mean that artificial 
feeding may safely be undertaken after the first few days. 
Quite apart from the differences in the relative quantities of 
the food-stuffs, the salts vary widely. Thus, in human milk 
there is about three times as much iron as in cow's milk, while 
the amount of calcium is much less, and the total quantities 
of salts are also well below those found in cow's milk. The 



280 HYGIENE 

true value and function of the various salts still require 
much investigation ; but it is safe to say that, as such investi- 
gations are made, they will show clearly that hitherto 
insufficient importance has been attached to salts in relation 
to the general growth and well-being of the infant. The 
presence of excess calcium in cow's milk is easily understood, 
since it has long been known that the calcium is attached 
to the caseinogen as calcium caseinogenate ; there is from 
two to three times as much caseinogen in cow's milk as 
in human milk, so that a large increase in the total amount of 
calcium in cow's milk might be expected. Iron has long 
been realized to be of vital importance to the organism. 
Bunge, working with the older methods of estimation of iron 
in milk, believed that the fcetal liver had a store of iron 
which at birth was gradually used up, and necessarily so, 
owing to the small amount of iron present in the food, 
namely, in human milk. Later researches with more accurate 
methods have, however, shown that the amount of iron 
really present is much greater than originally supposed. 
It may well be that this mineral forms one of the main 
differences between the salts of human and cow's milk and 
has an important bearing upon the nutrition of the infant. 
Magnesium must not be left out of consideration, but at 
present nothing definite as 10 the amounts present or as to 
its function is known ; but it is not unlikely that it may 
prove to be almost as important, if not as important, as iron. 
Of recent years the use of inorganic metals in treatment of 
disease has come much to the fore, and even small quantities 
have been found to be very powerful drugs, having intense 
effects on the body tissues. 1 

The protein of cow's milk and that of human milk will 
differ in their composition that is, in the constituent amino- 
acids of which they are made up. It seems that, so far, only 
scanty investigations have been carried out upon this point, 
which may, however, be one of some importance. 

The infant organism has a wide limit within which it can 

1 The references to the literature on iron and other salts, up to 1916, 
can be found in Milk, and its Hygienic Relations, Lane-Claypon, chapter iv. 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 281 

work satisfactorily, and theories do not always agree. For 
example, experts are not agreed as to the harmfulness or 
otherwise of the excess protein of cow's milk. It is usual to 
dilute milk, so as to reduce the protein to that found in 
human milk, but this does not by any means effect a similarity 
of protein. Others, again, do not consider that the excess 
protein has any deleterious effect, provided that a salt, 
usually sodium citrate, be added to prevent clotting in the 
stomach. Lusk points out (The Science of Nutrition, 
third edition, page 400) that the excess protein must exercise 
its specific effect and stimulate the infant's metabolism, thus 
increasing the amount of heat production and presumably 
heat loss. 

The distribution of calories is very different in human and 
cow's milk. Lusk, quoting from Rubner (cp. Lusk, loc. cit., 
p. 399) points out that if the average composition be taken, 
the calories are distributed as follows : 





Cow's. 


Human. 


Protein .... 
Fat 
Milk-sugar .... 


21-3 
49-8 
28-9 


7'4 
43-9 
48-7 


IOO-O 


IOO-O 



Nothing is definitely known as to the presence or absence 
of accessory food factors in human milk. It may be assumed 
that they are present, as is the case in cow's milk, but the 
amount is entirely unknown. It is almost certain that it 
will vary with the dietary of the mother, and it is quite 
possible that the unsatisfactory progress of infants on the 
breast may sometimes be due to an unbalanced dietary in 
the mother containing insufficient amounts of the growth 
factors, fat-soluble A and water-soluble B. 

The value of breast-feeding is well known in practice, and 
hardly needs support from the theoretical side. But it is 
hoped that the above remarks give some grounds for the 
general experience that mother's milk must be regarded as 



282 HYGIENE 

the right food for infants. Recent researches, to which 
further reference is made on page 289, show that the diet of 
the mother has far-reaching effects on the health of the 
offspring. 

Although, as is shown in the preceding paragraphs, our 
knowledge of the composition of milk and its precise relation 
to nutrition is still deficient, certain facts bear abundant 
testimony to the advantage of breast-feeding. If ordinary 
observation did not suffice, the figures of sickness and death 
among breast- and artificially- fed infants would do so. The 
proportion of deaths from such causes as have been in- 
vestigated from this point of view shows that the chance 
of survival of the breast-fed baby is many times greater than 
that of its artificially-fed brother. In particular the question 
of summer diarrhoea has been repeatedly investigated, and 
each time it has been shown that the mortality from this 
cause is far higher among bottle-fed babies than among 
those fed naturally. Those who have to deal with infants 
know well that in case of serious illness, the breast-fed baby 
may pull through where the bottle-fed baby will succumb. 
The risks suffered by contamination of the food are forcibly 
shown in fig. 54. 

Some years ago it was very widely stated that evidence 
was available to show that the capacity of breast-feeding 
was diminishing among women. There seems to be no 
foundation whatever for this statement, which contravenes 
the known trend of nature fundamental functions are main- 
tained by the organism even under adverse circumstances. 
Reproduction and the action of the organs associated with 
the system will presumably survive as long as the species 
concerned. It is unlikely, therefore, on a priori grounds that 
there will be any failure of mammary function. But there 
are pitfalls in the question of breast-feeding which are not 
foreseen, and which may lead to a failure to feed naturally. 
Under primitive conditions it may be found that the diffi- 
culties are less likely to occur than in our present artificial 
state. The supposition that primitive races do not suffer 
from disease and live long is, however, certainly a fallacious 



The Short Haul 



A great number of babies get 
their food through a tube many 
miles in length. 

It often takes a day and a half 
for the milk to run from the cow 
end of the tube to the baby end 
of the tube. 

This tube is open in many places 
and baby's food is frequently 
polluted. It is often wrongly kept 
in over-heated places. 

There may be a diseased cow 
at the country end of the tube. 
And yet some People Wonder 
Why So Many Babies Die ! 
On ihe other hand the mother- 
fed baby gets its milk fresh, pure 
and wholesome no germs can get 
into it. 

To Lessen Baby Deaths let us 
have More Mother-Fed Babies 

You can't improve on Nature's 

For your Baby's Sake Nurse It 




FIG. 54. Copies of the above as a poster enlarged to i6| by loj inches, 
mounted on a stiff card, varnished and with cord to hang, price 2/6 each, can 
be had on application to the Hon. Secretary, The National Clean Milk Society 
(Incorporated), 2 Soho Square, London, W.i. 

283 



284 HYGIENE 

one, as is shown by the published statements and investiga- 
tions made by travellers. 

In England, before the introduction of artificial feeding, 
if a mother would not or could not feed her infant, she 
engaged a wet-nurse to perform the duty in her place. 
This practice gradually fell in disrepute with the introduction 
of syphilis, since this disease is transmitted by suckling. 
A syphilitic wet-nurse will infect a non-syphilitic child. 
Her own child will be already infected in utero, but someone 
else's healthy child can be infected by the milk. Women 
who have been infected with syphilis often show no symp- 
toms at all, and it is not easy to ascertain whether they 
are infected or not without rather elaborate patho- 
logical investigations. For these reasons the practice of 
wet-nursing has been discontinued in this country, 
although it is still used among some of the continental 
nations. For the most part the wet-nurses are obtained 
through maternity institutions where the woman can be 
carefully investigated for possible syphilitic infection. 

Nothing can replace human milk for certain classes of 
ailments. In some conditions a baby may be restored 
to a good state of nutrition if it can receive human milk for 
even a short period, whereas it will have little chance of 
life if it has to be kept on cow's milk. Some maternity 
institutions abroad obtain milk from women Whose supply 
is more than enough for their own children ; in order to 
prevent the possible transference of any infection, the milk 
may be heated before being given. Such a process seems 
to have no effect whatever upon the nutritive property of 
the milk, but unfortunately the results obtained have never 
been published, and are not therefore generally available. 

Satisfactory breast-feeding can be secured only by co- 
operation between the mother and the child. The gland 
will not work without adequate stimulus, which must be 
supplied by the child, nor will it work without suitable care 
of the rest of the body, which depends upon the mother. 
The first difficulty in breast-feeding is that of getting the 
gland into working order. Milk is secreted under pressure, 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 285 

and the interior of the gland shows a positive pressure. 
The infant grasps the nipple with its lips and compresses it 
with the object of overcoming the muscular tone of the 
unstriped muscle tending to close the orifices of the ducts. 
At the same time the cavity of the mouth is enlarged by 
drawing down the jaws, which produces a sinking of the 
floor of the mouth and consequent decrease in the pressure 
in the mouth. There is then a pressure head between the 
interior of the gland and the mouth of the infant, which in 
normal cases should be sufficient to produce a flow of milk. 
If the child is weak and fails to be able to grasp the nipple 
firmly, or to produce a reduction of pressure in the buccal 
cavity, the milk will not flow properly, if at all. A weakly 
baby may take a long time to get the gland into working 
order, or may fail altogether. In such a case the fault is 
usually laid on the mother, who is said to have no milk, 
whereas the fault is with the infant, who cannot suck with 
sufficient energy. It is stated l that the pressure in the 
gland increases with the number of children. This may 
account for the difficulty often experienced with first 
babies, in cases where the second child finds no difficulty in 
obtaining its food. If a strong child be placed to the breast 
for a few days it will often get the breast into good working 
order, when the weaker child will be able to feed itself 
adequately. If this be impossible, it may be necessary to 
supplement the breast-feeding with some artificial feeding 
until the child is strong enough to suck more firmly. It 
should, however, be put first to the breast while hungry, 
and only receive other food after it has obtained all it can 
from the breast. The infant nearly always obtains more 
from the breast than can be got by any artificial means 
such as a breast-pump, and the amount obtained can be 
measured by weighing the child in the same garments before 
and after each feed. 

The effect of stimulus on the gland is shown by the amount 
of milk yielded by wet-nurses. These women can often 
feed two or three infants, as is also not infrequently the 

1 Cp. Fieldman, Ante-natal and Post-natal Child Physiology, pp. 448-52. 



286 



HYGIENE 



case with twins. Foreign authors have collected a great 
mass of evidence on this point, but among the most 
complete are the observations of Budin. The results 
obtained with one of the wet-nurses investigated are given 
in the following diagram, fig. 55, where it is shown that 
this one child took only some 500-800 cubic centimetres of 
the total yield of 1,000-2,500. The drop in supply which 



of children fed besides own child 




parturition 

FIG. 55. Showing the amounts of milk yielded under varying stimulus, 
owing to changes in the number of infants fed. The lighter shading shows 
the amount taken by the wet-nurse's own child. The darker shading the 
total amount taken by the other children. 

occurred when the number of children fed was reduced is 
particularly interesting. 

When more than one child is fed care must be taken 
that the same child does not always get either the first 
milk or the end-milk ; the fat of the end-milk is necessary 
for each, and too much fat produces digestive disturbances 
which may be serious. 

The position of the infant when feeding is of great impor- 
tance. It must be held comfortably, so that it feels perfectly 
supported, and care must be taken that its nostrils are not 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 287 

pressed against the gland. If this is so, then the child 
cannot breathe, and will be obliged to take its head away 
to avoid being suffocated. If necessary, the gland must 
be held back from the nostrils by the mother's free hand. 
Infants sometimes have a tendency to choke during feeding. 
This may mean either that the child is not comfortably 
placed for respiration, or that it is taking the milk too 
quickly. The former can be remedied by seeing that it 
can breathe satisfactorily, and the latter by controlling the 
flow of milk. The mother can place two fingers, one on 
each side of the nipple, and then control the flow, so that 
the child cannot swallow it too quickly. 

Babies should not vomit after feeding. If they do, it 
usually means that they have either taken too much or 
too quickly, or that they have not been kept quiet after 
feeding. If the infant has " wind," it may be gently placed 
in a sitting position, but its back should not be patted. 
This last will perhaps help to relieve the wind, but will 
probably cause vomiting. The practice of placing the child 
over the shoulder is satisfactory as regards position, if care 
be exercised, but the patting of the back which usually 
accompanies it has not equally good results. The object 
is to allow the air in the stomach to rise to the top of the 
organ and thus gain exit. 

The child should be hungry when it begins the meal. If 
it is not, it will suck half-heartedly and will only take the 
first part of the milk, which will flow easily. This is bad 
for both the gland and for the infant. If the gland is not 
emptied the milk supply tends to fail : it is not being 
worked, and this tends to a reduction of function. Then, 
if only the first milk is taken, the child obtains little or no 
fat, and does not thrive, since the bulk of the fat is in the 
end-milk (cp. page 231) . 

If the child is not hungry it is better to let it wait till 
the next feeding- time. The infant should not be left at 
the breast for more than 10-15 minutes. If it is hungry 
it will have taken all it needs in this period. If not, it is 
better to let it wait until the next feeding-time. It is not 



288 HYGIENE 

good to allow the child to go off almost to sleep with the 
nipple still in its mouth. 

There is some difference of both opinion and practice in 
regard to the best intervals of feeding, and it is probable 
that it is unwise to advocate any one hard-and-fast rule 
for all cases. Much will depend upon circumstances, but 
it may safely be said that the intervals of feeding should 
in no case be less than three hours (weakly, premature 
children excepted) and that there should be an eight-hourly 
interval during the night. With an average healthy child 
and mother, four-hourly feeds are the best, and can be 
commenced from birth. Some people find it difficult to 
believe that a child requires time for digestion, or that 
its organs want rest, like those of older persons. They have 
an idea that the more milk the child gets the faster it will 
grow. This is only correct up to a certain point, beyond 
which indigestion will result. The breast-fed baby has 
distinct advantages on these points, since it is less easy to 
over-feed it than the bottle-fed baby. But if the breast 
baby is not hungry, the gland will not be emptied, as 
described above. It will not be hungry unless the stomach 
is allowed time for digestion, and for subsequent rest. 

Human milk does not form a clot with rennet, and the 
milk does not therefore necessarily remain long in the 
stomach. The child's stomach can be studied with the 
X-rays, without the use of bismuth, and it has been re- 
peatedly shown that milk begins to pass out of the stomach 
even while the child is still feeding at the breast. The 
stomach of the infant is somewhat more upright than in the 
case of the older child or adult, which allows the milk the 
more readily to pass out into the intestine. The amount 
of milk taken by the breast-fed baby is not dependent upon 
the size of its stomach, since a portion at any rate passes 
through to the intestine during the period of feeding. Some 
gastric digestion takes place, however. There is no fixed 
period within which digestion takes place, since the period 
depends upon the composition of the milk and is delayed 
by the presence of fat. It would seem that from two to 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS 289 

three hours may be regarded as a fair average time. Four- 
hourly intervals between the feeds give the stomach some 
rest. The eight-hour interval at night enables both the 
mother and child to get a prolonged and unbroken period 
of sleep. This is good for both, and, by conducing to general 
good health on the part of the mother, helps in securing 
the activity of the mammary gland. 

The mother also has her part to play in breast-feeding. 
She must preserve her body in a good state of health, if the 
gland is to do its share. The supply of breast-milk depends 
upon . adequate nourishment, and the mother's dietary is a 
matter of importance. It should be varied, but need not 
otherwise differ from that eaten when nursing is not under- 
taken. There is no food which need be forbidden a nursing 
mother, except those which cause her indigestion. She 
should be encouraged to take vegetables and other articles 
of a mixed diet, so soon as she feels able to do so after the 
confinement. A diet of bread and tea is unsatisfactory. 
It is deficient from almost every point of view. If large 
quantities are taken, enough energy may be supplied at 
the risk of producing indigestion and other troubles. A 
dietary too rich in protein appears to have an adverse effect 
on the milk-supply, and to reduce or even prevent its 
formation. 1 This is, in fact, in accordance with general 
experience. The well-to-do nursing mother who is over-fed 
often loses her milk. It is then said that she is incapable 
of breast-feeding and that it is useless to attempt it again. 
Most people recall the pressure often brought to bear on 
the young mother to eat more, because she is nursing the 
baby. The result too frequently is that the mother lays 
on a good deal of fat, which annoys her, as she thinks 
she is losing her figure, and the breast-milk fails. If she 
had eaten a normal varied dietary, there would probably 
have been no difficulty. There is no need for a mother to 
avofd active exercise while nursing, so long as the exercise 
is not carried to fatigue. It is important to keep the bowels 
open by exercise and suitable diet rather than by drugs. 

1 Hartwell, Biochem. Jour., 1921. 



290 HYGIENE 

Breast-feeding should not be abandoned without more 
effort than is sometimes made. The breast will often come 
into good working order as late as one month after the 
birth of the child ; persistent efforts should be made for 
not less than four weeks. Again, if breast-feeding has been 
given up, for one reason or another, it can very frequently 
be restored, even after several weeks. The inherent capacity 
of the gland for its function is far greater than is commonly 
attributed to it that is, if it is treated properly. Due regard 
must be had to the whole position ; the mother's food, the 
infant's method of feeding, and so forth, require taking into 
consideration. 

The mental outlook is also important. The fretful, 
worrying mother is not often a good nursing mother. She 
neither gives herself nor the child any real repose. The 
child wants quiet and calm to enable its processes to be 
carried out satisfactorily. The agitated mother, always on 
wires, always in a hurry, makes the child fretful. Sooner or 
later the general effect is that it ceases to thrive, and the 
mother's milk is said to be at fault. Really it is the mother's 
habits. The peaceful ten to fifteen minutes which should 
be devoted to breast-feeding at each meal is good for the 
mother ; it makes her rest, and induces a calm attitude of 
mind, which will greatly help in her work and be of benefit 
to her general health. 

There is some divergence of opinion in regard to the need 
for regularity of feeding ; if the intervals are to be quite 
regular, then the child must be awakened at first at any 
rate. After a short time the infant will wake itself very 
regularly for its food, and, in any case, it will probably go 
off again to sleep after the food. Others, however, consider 
it most undesirable to wake the child, and think that it 
should be allowed to fix its own hours for meals, provided 
always that the interval is not less than four hours. Pro- 
bably in practice there is less distinction than appears, since 
the infant will wake at more or less fixed times if accustomed 
to them, and the demands of the stomach will tend to some 
degree of regularity. Some regard must, however, be paid 



Weeks 

Grammes 12345678 9 lOII 12 1314 15 16 17 18I920ZI 22232425262728 
10000 



9000 



3.000 



7000 



6000 



5000 



4000 




3000 



2000 



II 



FIG. 56. Showing the weight-curves and amounts of milk taken by 
two breast-fed infants. 



291 



292 HYGIENE 

to the mother and to her duties. It is often impossible for 
the mother to wait for the baby to awaken, if the sleep is 
long. Her occupation may require greater regularity, and 
the breasts may become painful and require emptying. 
Some common sense must be used, bearing in mind the 
general requirements, as set out above. 

The amount of milk taken by healthy breast-babies varies 
considerably. Abundant evidence is available from foreign 
sources showing precisely the amount of milk taken at each 
feed throughout several months of life. The child was 
weighed before and after each feed throughout the entire 
period. Among the most complete are cases given by 
Czerny and Keller, and two of these are shown in the 
accompanying diagram (cp. fig. 56). 

It should be noted that the general rise of both weight- 
curves is good. Further, that the amount of milk taken 
rises rapidly, reaching a maximum during the first few weeks 
of life, and continuing at the same level throughout the period 
of observation. The amounts of milk taken by the children ' 
show a greater difference than the weight-curves, Child I 
taking not far from twice as much milk as Child II. 

The child needs more food during the period of rapid 
growth in the early weeks of life, but such amounts cannot 
be given to the artificially fed baby, because the conditions 
of digestion are different. If the same amounts of modified 
cow's milk were given as are safely taken by the human 
infant in the early weeks of life disastrous consequences 
would occur. This is considered more fully in the next 
chapter. 

In regard to the amounts taken by breast-fed babies, it 
may be remarked that 600 c.c., which was often taken by 
Child II, amount to approximately i pint of milk, or just over 
21 oz., since 1,000 c.c. or one litre =i| pints, or 35 fluid ozs., 
and was repeatedly taken by Child I. These quantities are 
greatly in excess of what could be safely given to or taken by 
an artificially fed baby in the first few months of life. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

ARTIFICIAL FEEDING 

IF breast-milk fails, or is insufficient, cow's milk must be pro- 
vided for the infant ; goat's milk will also serve, if this is 
available. Ordinarily, however, cow's milk in one form or 
other is provided. In this chapter only some of the more 
generally important modifications of cow's milk will be 
dealt with. There are numerous more highly specialized 
modifications, and milk mixtures which are used by special- 
ists dealing with children. These are, however, outside the 
sphere of a work like this, as they are unnecessarily complex 
for use for the ordinary reasonably healthy infant. 

The most usual modification is that which is carried out 
with the object of bringing about an approximation of the 
composition of the cow's milk to that of human milk. For 
this purpose the milk must first of all be diluted by means 
of an equal volume of water in order to reduce the protein 
from 3 per cent, to 1-5 per cent. This makes the sugar and 
fat too dilute, and additions of these must be made to the 
fluid. The amounts of these added can vary slightly, but 
an average milk mixture can be made by taking -J pint of 
milk (10 ozs.), pint of water, 2 tablespoonfuls of lactose or 
one of cane-sugar, and i oz. of cream. The tablespoonfuls 
should not be heaped. The amount of lactose in such a 
mixture will be roughly approximate to that in human milk, 
while the fat is rather below the percentage in human milk. 
It is not advisable to give as much cane-sugar as lactose, and 
some people do not consider cane-sugar at all satisfactory. 
It has been found in practice that milk is best diluted until 
the child is about six months old. Some people consider 
that if a child has to be artificially fed during the first two 

293 



294 HYGIENE 

or three weeks of life the dilution should be carried further 
than equal parts of milk and water : in some books even 
as high a dilution as one part of milk to three or four of 
water is recommended. There seems to be no reason for so 
much dilution, which will probably not supply sufficient 
nitrogen for the child. It may be remembered that 
colostrum is especially rich in nitrogen, so that it may be 
assumed that the child needs a considerable amount of 
nitrogen in the early weeks after birth. 

If the milk be diluted beyond that represented by the 
amount present in the later milk of the human species it is 
doubtful whether the amount can be considered sufficient. 
The loss of weight during the early days (cp. pages 320-321) 
is greater in the artificially fed infant than in the breast-fed 
baby, and this may in part be due to the smaller amount of 
nitrogen. On the other hand, the protein of cow's milk is 
foreign protein, and it is probably inadvisable to give more 
than would be represented by dilution to one-half. 

It is neither possible nor advisable to lay down definite 
rules for the feeding of infants. The body- weight is a better 
index of the amount required than the age of the child. 
The development of children varies greatly, and a child, for 
example, of four months, may often weigh as much as another 
child of five or even six months, or as little as one consider- 
ably younger. Much depends on its inherited character- 
istics and other factors. Moreover, an active child will 
consume more energy than a passive one, and hence will 
require more fuel that is, more milk. Again, as is pointed 
out very forcibly by Prit chard, 1 the amount of food required 
will depend upon the amount of clothing, housing conditions, 
etc. Some authorities consider that the amount of milk 
taken should be calculated on the area of surface of the body. 
This is related to the weight, and becomes proportionately 
less as growth proceeds. A large number of calculations 
have been made as to the total number of the calories, and 
hence the amount of milk required per square metre of 
surface, and per kilogram of body weight. Hawkins con- 

1 The Infant, 1916, pp. 6675. Published by Arnold. 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING 



295 



sidered that during the first three months of life 100 calories 
per kilogram were required, falling to 90 during the next 
three months, and 80 or less thereafter. It seems fairly 
certain that these figures are greatly in excess of requirements, 
and later work by Murlin and Hoobler, 1 and by Benedict and 
Talbot, 2 shows that 48 calories per kilogram of body weight 
is sufficient for newly born infants, rising, however, to 60 
calories per kilogram a few weeks later. 

General reckonings in calories and kilograms are of little 
or no assistance to the nurse or mother who seeks some guid- 
ance in regard to the amount which should be given. It 
seemed, therefore, worth while to take the figures and work 
out the amounts on the following basis : 

i litre = if pints = 35 fluid ounces. 
I kilogram = 35 ounces. 
I kilogram cow's milk = 684 calories, 
i kilogram human milk = 719 calories. 

Further, it is assumed that 48 calories per kilogram are 
required immediately after birth, and 60 calories at later 
dates. 

Taking infants to weigh roughly 7 Ibs. at birth, n Ibs. at 
3 months, and 16^ Ibs. at 6 months, the figures given below 
are obtained : 



Weight of 
infant. 


Calories 

required. 


Equivalent 
of cow's milk 
unmodified. 


Equivalent Equivalent 
of milk for after 
modification, modification. 


Amount of mixture 
per feed, if five 
feeds per day. 


7 Ibs. 


153-6 


8 OZS. 


4 OZS. 


7i ozs. 


l OZS. 


II ,, 


300 


15*,. 


8 


15 


o 








(nearly) 


(nearly) 




16*., 


450 


30 


Mixture probably not 


6 ozs. whole 








needed. 


milk. 



These are, in fact, the very quantities that are commonly 
prescribed as a result of experience. It is very usual gradu- 
ally to increase the quantity of the mixture up to about 4 or 

1 Amer. Journ. of Dis. of Children, vol. ix, p. 81. 

2 Physiology of the New-born Infant. Carnegie Institute of 1915, 
Bulletin 233. 



296 HYGIENE 

4^- months of age, after which the degree of dilution can be 
reduced until the child takes about 6 ozs. of whole milk at 
each feed at the age of six months. It cannot, however, 
be too clearly stated that no hard-and-fast rules can be ob- 
served in the feeding of infants, and that excellent results are 
obtained by widely different methods ; each baby must 
receive individual consideration. 

Whatever milk mixture is used should be prepared once 
each day and heated as described on p. 273 et seq. If the 
child leaves any of its food, this should not be kept for the 
next time, but a fresh portion used for each occasion. Too 
often the bottle is temporarily set aside and even put to keep 
warm by the side of the fire. Sometimes the bottle stays 
there for prolonged periods, during which the bacteria are 
being incubated under favourable conditions, and are 
multiplying rapidly in the milk. 

The upright bottles, as shown in the diagram on p. 276, 
are the simplest to use, because no handling of the milk is 
required after it has been once heated. The old long-tube 
bottle has already been utterly condemned as unhygienic, 
on account of the impossibility of keeping the tube clean, 
since it cannot be boiled without destroying the rubber. 
The boat-shaped bottle is satisfactory as to shape, but the 
milk must then be heated in some receptacle and poured into 
the bottle before each feed. If this be done care should be 
taken that the milk is properly mixed before each use, other- 
wise the fat content of the food will vary considerably. 
The teats should fit directly on to the bottle. The bottles 
should be well cleansed with soda and hot water, and then 
scalded or even boiled ; they should subsequently be allowed 
to cool in such a position that dust does not gain access to 
the inside of the bottle ; they should remain in this position 
until required for use. The teats require turning inside out 
and thoroughly cleansing with hot (not boiling) water, 
placed in boracic lotion for a while, and then left in clean cold 
water until needed. In selecting the teat, some care should 
be given to the size of the hole. If too small, the child may 
not be able to get the food comfortably, and will be fretful ; 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING 297 

if the hole is too large, it will take the milk too quickly and 
may choke or even vomit the food. 

Cow's milk, on reaching the stomach, is acted upon by the 
rennin of the gastric juice, and a clot or curd is formed. 
This clot takes some time to digest, and the milk is delayed 
in the stomach for digestion. Human milk does not form this 
clot, and the milk therefore passes out of the stomach more 
readily. If an artificially fed infant be overfed, it will usually 
vomit the excess. Continued over-feeding with cow's milk 
may lead to a dilatation of the stomach with weakening of 
the walls and subsequent indigestion. 

Dried milk has come very much to the front of recent 
years as a food for infants, and there is every reason to believe 
that its use will increase. There is some divergence of view 
upon its desirability, but most of those who have used it are 
agreed that it forms a valuable and satisfactory food for 
infants. A great number of dried milks are obtainable, but 
some are better known than others. Different processes 
are used in their preparation. The commonest method is to 
pass the milk in a thin film between rollers heated to 120 C. 
or over. The milk is rapidly heated and dried, the water 
passing off as vapour. The temperature of the milk itself 
has been shown to remain below 100 C. throughout the period 
of desiccation, which amounts only to about 3 seconds. 
Fig. 57 shows the method used. 

The drying apparatus consists of two cylinders placed 
side by side, the space between them not exceeding two 
millimetres. They rotate in opposite directions at a speed 
of six to fourteen revolutions per minute. They are heated 
by steam under pressure at a temperature of i39-i4i C. 
for whole milk, or rather lower for separated milk. The 
steam enters through pipe V. The milk enters through 
pipe L, the outflow through d being regulated. It falls 
into the gutter a, when it passes into a state of ebullition. 
The temperature of the milk during the short time it was 
in the gutter was found to remain below 100 C. 

The milk passes out from the gutter in a thin layer, which 
rapidly dries in a pellicle on the surface of the rotating 



298 HYGIENE 

cylinder. By the time that two-thirds (approximately) of 
a revolution has been accomplished the milk is sufficiently 
dry to be separated in a continuous ribbon by means of the 
long, straight blades at r. The ribbon falls into the chamber 
C, whence it is removed, powdered, and packed in tins. 




FIG. 57. A method of desiccating milk. The drying apparatus con- 
sists of two cylinders placed side by side, the space between them not 
exceeding two millimetres. They rotate in opposite directions at a speed 
of 6-14 revolutions per minute. Steam at a temperature of from 139-141 
degrees Centigrade enters through the pipe V. The milk enters through 
pipe L. The outflow through d is regulated and the milk falls through the 
gutter a, passing out in a thin layer which rapidly dries in a pellicle on the 
surface of the rotating cylinder. By the time that the cylinder has gone 
through approximately two-thirds of a revolution the milk is sufficiently 
dried to be separated in a continuous ribbon by means of the long straight 
blades at r. The ribbon falls into the chamber c, whence it is removed, 
powdered, and packed into tins. 

Another method employed is to concentrate the milk to 
the consistency of a syrup at a relatively low temperature 
at reduced pressure. The milk is then forced under pres- 
sure in a jet through a small aperture, whence it passes to 
a chamber, where it meets a hot air current under pressure. 
This process causes the solid portion to fall out as powder. 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING 299 

The advantages claimed for this ^method are that the milk 
is kept below boiling point throughout the process ; but, on 
the other hand, it is exposed to a prolonged heating. Prac- 
tical experience does not seem to have shown any marked 
difference in the results obtained by the two methods. 

The best-known brands of dried milk are perhaps the Just- 
Hat maker (also known as the Cow and Gate, and as the 
West Surrey Central Dairy Co.), and that known as Trumilk. 
The powder is sold as dried whole milk, and also half- 
cream milk, and skimmed milk. Glaxo is another very 
well known variety of dried milk. In using whole dried 
milk regard must be had to the need for modification. 

Ordinary dried whole milk is seven to eight times as 
strong as fluid milk. In order to restore it to the original 
strength, one teaspoonful (not heaped) should be dissolved 
in one fluid ounce of water, and so on in proportion to the 
amount of milk required. The powder dissolves better in 
warm water than in cold. The emulsion formed on the 
addition of water varies a little with the brand. The degree 
of emulsification is not material to infants, who do not 
appear to pay attention to these minor points. It is rather 
the adult who takes the solution in tea who minds whether 
the emulsion is good or not. 

Some doctors prefer the half-cream brand of milk, and 
others use the skimmed milk, which is cheaper for poorer 
persons, in which case the addition of fat is necessary. 
Pritchard uses a fat emulsion known as Marylebone Cream, 
which contains beef fat, and appears to be a very satis- 
factory substitute for cream. 1 

The protein of cow's milk is more readily digested when 
it has been heated than when it is raw, and the protein of 
dried milk is rather more easily digested than that of 
pasteurised milk. For this reason it may be possible to 
give the milk in a rather less dilution than one-half emulsion 
and one-half water. This is undoubtedly an advantage in 
special cases, but requires careful usage. Some mothers 

1 The fat used in the original mixture was linseed oil. 



300 HYGIENE 

have the idea that an infant should be given as much food 
as possible. Dried milk commends itself to these as having 
a more real appearance of food than fluid milk ; hence they 
make the preparation too concentrated. Some people have 
had unfortunate experiences with dried milk, but in nearly 
every such case it will be found that too much food has 
been given. This leads to vomiting and to a condition of 
malnutrition ; if smaller amounts are given, trouble is 
rarely experienced. The directions on many of the tins 
are misleading, and the amounts directed to be given are 
too large. It is better to ignore the directions, and to 
remember that one teaspoonful of the powder represents, 
roughly, an ounce of whole milk, calculating from this the 
amount required. 

Of recent years there has been much discussion as to the 
production of rickets or of scurvy by the use of heated or 
of dried milk. This is discussed further in Chapter XXVI, 
but it may be stated here that much of the outcry raised is 
not based upon ascertained facts. If desired, there is no 
harm in giving fruit or orange juice to any artificially fed 
infant. 

The general position of dried milk for infants has been 
carefully investigated by Coutts, 1 who showed that its use 
was attended with very satisfactory results. Special 
investigations were made as to the weight- curves and 
general condition of infants fed on dried milk. Some of 
the curves are shown in the figure below (see fig. 58). 

The advantages of dried milk are many. In the first 
place, it may be taken as free from germs of disease. 
Delepine, it is true, found that the tubercle bacillus, when 
added to milk about to be desiccated, was not entirely 
destroyed; but, for all practical purposes, dried milk may 
be taken as germ-free. Such bacteria as are found in 
samples, when investigated, have most probably been 
introduced in the later manipulations. 

Then dried milk can be kept over prolonged periods. The 
quantity required can be prepared for each meal, and there 

1 Report to the L.G.B., 1918. 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING 



301 



is no waste. Fluid milk must" be purchased in definite 
amounts, and cannot and should not be kept more than 
twenty-four hours. 

In view of the excellent results obtained, it is rather 
difficult to understand the strenuous objections sometimes 
raised to the use of dried milk. Practical experience in such 
a case carries great weight, and should not be set aside by 
theoretical objections. There can be little doubt that 




80 8* 

The 
the 



4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 56 40 tt 48 52 56 60 64 68 72 76 

FIG. 58. The weight-curves of infants fed on dried milk (D.M.). 
numbers in the column D.M. show the number of weeks during which 
feeding lasted. The dotted line represents the average weight-curve. 

- dried milk is a great gain for the poorer classes, at any rate, 
and it is widely used among all classes of persons. It has 
always a distinctive taste, and is not so nice in tea or coffee 
as other milk ; but the infant, in fact, often seems to prefer 
dried milk to ordinary milk. Presumably infants have little 
sense of taste in early life, for, if allowed, they will con- 
tentedly take sour milk. 

Condensed milk is not suitable as a food for infants, 



HYGIENE 

although it may often be useful as a temporary measure in 
special cases of intestinal disturbance ; the sweetened 
variety contains too much sugar and too little fat. In 
order to give the child the requisite amount of fat, it would 
be necessary to give it more of the other constituents than 
it could possibly deal with. The unsweetened varieties do 
not keep well, and must be used quickly when once opened. 
Attempts have been made to make up small tins of the 
unsweetened variety to avoid this difficulty, but they would 
not appear to have met with great success. 

Patent or proprietary foods should not be used. For 
the poorer classes they are very expensive, in addition to 
being unsuitable. The majority of them contain starch, 
which is not good for the infant, and in the few cases where 
they are practically dried milk under another name there 
is no advantage in paying the additional price for the sake 
of purchasing a proprietary food. A few such foods are 
useful in special cases as temporary measures, but not as a 
continued diet. 

The large amount of sugar or starch in condensed milk 
and in proprietary foods makes the children very fat, and 
parents and friends express great delight at the enormous 
size of the child. The size is due to fat only, and the child 
is usually unhealthy and flabby, and in addition is frequently 
rickety. An infant should have firm, rounded limbs, not 
large flabby ones with rolls of fat. These large children are 
more liable to bronchitis and other ailments than the 
smaller and healthier ones. Further remarks on this subject 
will be found in Chapter XXVI. 



CHAPTER XXV 

THE FEEDING OF CHILDREN AFTER THE AGE OF INFANCY 

THERE have been, and still are, very marked variations in 
practice in regard to the age of weaning. Many years ago 
it appears that children were frequently not weaned until 
the end of the second year of life. It is, however, probable 
that breast-milk was by this time merely a supplementary 
part of the dietary. Suckling is often voluntarily prolonged 
at the present day as a result of the belief prevalent among 
many that pregnancy does not recur while lactation is 
carried on. This belief, which fails continually in practice, 
is still clung to by numerous nursing mothers. The occur- 
rence of pregnancy during breast-feeding is not in itself a 
contraindication to breast-feeding, if the mother is strong 
enough to carry it on. There is likewise no reason why 
nursing should not be carried on after the usual time for 
weaning, provided that the mother's milk is not the only 
diet, but forms rather a supplement to the other food. 

The breast-fed baby can safely be left at the breast for 
the first eight or nine months, at which age it requires more 
solid food. It is often advisable, with artificially fed 
children, to give a little puree of apples, carrots, or swedes 
at or soon after the sixth month. How far the advantage 
of the puree is due to the cellulose, and how far to the juice 
is undetermined, and is not of great importance from the 
practical point of view. In infants with a tendency to 
constipation great improvement is often noticed on com- 
mencing the apple or root puree. It is understood that 
the roots or apples will be well cooked and then rubbed 
through a sieve. One or two tablespoonfuls of it can be 
given in the day from about the sixth month onwards. If 

303 



304 HYGIENE 

the baby is doing well there is no special object to be 
gained in adding to its diet before the eighth or ninth month. 
When this age has been reached some solid food must 
be given. Bread and milk or rusk and milk are most 
commonly used, and serve very well. The bread or rusks 
should be pulped in hot milk until quite soft, so that the 
resulting mixture is fairly thick and smooth. Some children 
take it best when sufficiently fine to be drawn through the 
hole of a teat ; others take it quite easily when fed with a 
spoon, and it is best, if possible, that the child should begin 
to accustom itself to spoon feeding. It will be advisable 
to give the bread and milk gradually : for example, one 
meal of this, say, on alternate days, or three times a week, 
then increasing up to once a day and then twice in the day 
in place of a feed of milk. 

When the child has got accustomed to the bread or rusks, 
it may proceed to gravy and mashed potato, and gradually 
to bread and butter, biscuit, and generally to a more varied 
dietary. By the tenth or eleventh month the child may 
usually be given a little egg-yolk, if this can be afforded, 
say, about a half or one-third of a yolk two or three times 
a week. 

By the end of the first year a diet with considerable 
variety may safely be provided, including a very little soft 
fish well pounded up. Milk puddings or custards are 
good, and fat should form a part of the diet, butter being 
very good, but at the present time it is unfortunately too 
expensive for many. Suet is less expensive and can be 
added in small quantities to a rice pudding, if the last is 
well cooked, as it should be. The fruit or vegetable puree 
may with advantage be continued. In the early months 
of the second year the child can take small, well-cooked 
portions of most of the ordinary foods served for the family. 
It must be well mashed, as the teeth will not be able to 
deal with really solid pieces, and the child will not under- 
take much mastication. 

There is no special need for large amounts of milk- after 
weaning. It is good in puddings, and, if it can be afforded, 



FEEDING OF CHILDREN AFTER INFANCY 305 

can be given as a beverage, but it should not be regarded as 
the main article of diet. When the alimentary canal can 
take a mixed dietary it is a mistake to provide it only with 
slops. On the other hand, some discretion must be used, 
and such things as sausage, lobster, pickles, cheese, raw 
apples, and so on, should be reserved for a later age. The 
intestine needs roughage to work on, and too concentrated 
or nutritious a diet tends to produce constipation. As the 
child grows older the ordinary diet of an adult may be given 
in regard to the more usual food-stuffs : highly flavoured, 
done-up dishes or very rich food is inadvisable and the diet 
should be plain and good, with sufficient variety. Too often 
children are given bread and margarine for breakfast and 
tea, with perhaps a little jam occasionally, and, even if the 
meat be varied throughout the week, the pudding will 
usually be a milk pudding, which, however excellent in itself, 
is monotonous in the long run. Green vegetables, or roots, 
and potato should form a part of the daily dietary, but they 
can be served in different ways to give variety. Potatoes 
should not be peeled ; they should be washed and either 
boiled or (preferably) steamed in their skins, which can then 
be peeled off without removing the layers near the skin. 

The amount of food required during the period of growth 
and adolescence is obviously both an important and an 
interesting subject. Unfortunately, the necessary data are 
conspicuously absent, and hardly any scientific work has 
been done on this subject. Some years ago, the League of 
Food Reform in this country collected a mass of information 
as to the diet in certain schools, but no precise information 
is available as to the effect of the dietaries on the children. 
The subject is, in fact, one of great difficulty. Individual 
cases are of no value, but when large numbers are considered, 
the effects of the food are difficult to trace. For example, 
very few schools undertake any kind of systematic inspection 
of the children term by term, or weigh them to ascertain their 
progress. It is probably hardly a practicable proposition. 
Then the amount of food taken and required will vary 
enormously with the habits of the individual. A boy who 
20 



306 HYGIENE 

plays games actively, who usually runs instead of walking, 
and who is hardly ever voluntarily still, will require and 
take much higher quantities of food fuel than the boy of 
sedentary habits. The Food (War) Committee, as already 
shown, places the average requirements of boys and girls at 
3,000 and 2,500 calories respectively, and fig. 36, already 
given, show the marked difference in caloric needs between 
a <quiet and a very active boy. 

Gephart x investigated the amount of food taken by 355 
boys of various ages at a large school in New Hampshire. 
He found that the calories per head per day worked out at 
about 5,000, or more than one and a half times as many as 
the average requirement for an adult. There can be little 
doubt that metabolism is very active during the age period 
of about 13 to 17 or 18, and more calories are required per 
kilogram of body weight than in later life. But this does 
not necessarily mean that more fuel is required as a whole, 
since the total weight -will usually be less. 

As growth becomes less rapid, the calories required per 
kilogram of body weight gradually fall to the proportionate 
requirements of an adult, being considerably lower than at 
the age of 13. At the same time, some consideration must 
be had for the digestive system, and it is fairly certain that 
such a thing as taking an excessive quantity of food must not 
be ruled out. Physiologists do not appear to consider over- 
eating, but it is certainly a matter to be borne in mind in 
real life. Children are often greedy, or get into the habit of 
eating more than they actually require. It may also be 
that the food supplied them does not form a well-balanced 
dietary, and they are endeavouring subconsciously to repair 
the defect. 

The body can, without any doubt, accustom itself to live 
at different metabolic levels. A person who habitually eats 
large amounts will live at a higher level than a person who 
eats smaller amounts. Everyone is familiar in ordinary life 
with the great variation in amount taken by individuals of 

1 Quoted by Lusk, Science of Nutrition, p. 558, from the Boston Medical 
and Surgical Journal, 1917, vol. Ixxvi, p. 17. 



FEEDING OF CHILDREN AFTER INFANCY 307 

fairly equal size and weight and of similar habits. It may 
be supposed that in the one case either the body is made to 
undertake an unnecessary amount of work, or the assimila- 
tion in the intestine is poor. Possibly both factors are at 
work. The person who eats less may, on the other hand, 
utilize the food better, and relieve the body of work which is 
not essential for its well-being. An overworked stomach and 
intestine is very unhygienic, and leads to distension and dis- 
turbance of function. Sir Arbuthnot Lane 1 considers that 
the intestinal stasis arising from an over-loaded bowel com- 
mencing in childhood is responsible for many of the diseases 
found only in later life. It is evidently impracticable 
in the ordinary wear and tear of life to be planning the 
daily menu with a close regard to calories, or to the precise 
nutritive values of the food provided. But a little know- 
ledge and some common sense will suffice to produce a reason- 
ably satisfactory dietary. Nature is capable of utilizing 
one food-stuff to replace others in a very extraordinary 
manner, as has already been explained ; but there are limits 
to this capacity, and some effort on the part of those who are 
responsible in each household should be made to provide 
suitable food. 

It is unfortunate that comparatively few people have a 
sufficient knowledge of the rudiments of the basis on which 
a dietary should be arranged. Meat is often regarded as 
the most important article of food, especially for adults, 
while starchy foods are provided for children in large 
quantities. Within limits there is a greater need for carbo- 
hydrates on the part of the active child, but it also requires 
the other food materials. It is impossible here to enter into 
the question of a balanced dietary in further detail. It is 
hoped that the data given in Chapter XVI, and in 
the tables at the end of that chapter, kindly prepared by 
Professor Mottram, may form some guide as to the kinds of 
food which, when used together, will form a well-balanced 
dietary. 

1 Lancet, January 28, 1921. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

NOTES ON RICKETS AND SCURVY 

THE investigations of physiologists during the last few years 
have brought rickets and scurvy within the field of the 
hygienist, since it has been shown that both these diseases 
are preventible. The health visitor, or anyone working 
among children, will be frequently meeting cases of rickets, 
while the bug-bear of scurvy is continually being held up in 
connection with the feeding of infants. 

Rickets is a widespread disease, being very common in 
this country and in many other countries of Europe. It 
appears primarily as a disease of the osseous system, the 
bones becoming softened and the long bones bending, if any 
strain is thrown on them, as is the case if the child walks on 
them. There is little doubt that the whole bony structure 
is affected, and that it is due to some error of metabolism in 
the child. The lime which is deposited in the bones is 
reabsorbed into the system, leaving the bones unduly soft, 
and exposed to the pressure of the muscular action or to the 
weight of the body. Further, the formation of bone at the 
junction of the shaft of the long bones and the epiphyses of 
the joint becomes very irregular and results irl an enlarge- 
ment of the bones near the joint. The enlargement can be 
seen from outside, as the contour of the joint is altered, 
showing the swelling of the ends of the bones : this is usually 
especially noticeable at the wrist and ankles. The swollen 
appearance is partly due to a relaxation of the muscles and 
ligaments round the joint. 

The junction of the ribs with the costal cartilage is another 
part generally affected, and results in an elevation at the 
point of union. This elevation can be felt through the -skin, 
and is known as " beading " of the ribs, also as a " rickety 

308 



NOTES ON RICKETS AND SCURVY 



309 



rosary.'* The closure of the fontanelles in the skull is delayed 
by the onset of rickets, the chief fontanelle increasing in size 
with the establishment of the condition. Of the six fontan- 
elles in the fcetal skull, most are closed at birth, and the 
only one usually requiring attention after birth is the anterior 
fontanelle, which is situated at the site of the future junction 
of the frontal and parietal bones. Ordinarily this aperture 
is closed by about the eighteenth month by the growth of 
the bones, but if rickets supervenes this closure is delayed. 
The softening of the skull bones produces the square fore- 
head or " caput quadratum " very frequently associated 
with rickety children. 

The cutting of the teeth is delayed in rickets, and, when 
dentition is seriously behind time, this should lead to a 
suspicion of rickets. The average age for the appearance of 
the teeth is as follows : 



TEMPORARY TEETH 

Lower central incisors .... 

Upper incisors . . . . 

Lower lateral incisors and upper and lower 
first molars ...... 

Lower and upper canines 
Lower and upper second molars 



Dental formula 



4 

4 

20 



Months. 
6-9 
8-10 

12-15 

18-24 
24-30 



Upper 


Mo. 

2 


Ca. 

I 


In. 


In. 
2 


Ca. 

I 


Mo. 

2 = 


10 



Lower 2 



PERMANENT TEETH 



First molars . 
Central incisors 
Lateral incisors 
First bicuspid 
Second bicuspid 
Canines . 
Second molars 
Third molars (wisdom) 



Dental formula 



4 
4 

4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 

32 



2 = 10 



Years. 
6 

7 
8 

9 
10 

11-13 
12-14 
17-25 



Upper 


Mo. 

3 


Bic. 
2 


Ca. 

I 


In. 


In. 

2 


Ca. 

I 


Bic. 

2 


Mo. 
3 


Lower 


3 


2 


I 


2 


2 


I 


2 


3 



310 HYGIENE 

Dentition may be delayed in children who are not rickety by 
conditions which have produced any general debility. 

Rickets is a disease which is rarely fatal, but it has very 
damaging effects which make it a matter of great importance 
to the well-being of the community. The weight of the body, 
acting on the legs, will cause curvature of the leg or bow-leg, 
a serious deformity and detrimental in walking, although not 
actually a cause of ill health. The repeated traction of the 
diaphragm on the softened ribs leads to depression around 
the chest at the site of internal attachment of this muscle, 
giving rise to a groove known as Harrison's sulcus. The action 
of the arm muscles on the chest tends to produce a general 
deformity of the chest, narrowing it slightly from front to 
back. These changes affect respiration, and rickety children 
are at a serious disadvantage if bronchitis or other respira- 
tory trouble should overtake them : it appears that they are, 
as a whole, more liable to respiratory trouble than other 
children. The pelvic girdle may become considerably 
deformed, the cavity being narrowed from front to back, 
leading to difficulty in labour ; in extreme cases the spinal 
column also becomes deformed. 

These detrimental effects of rickets have long been known, 
but it is only within about the last decade or so that attention 
has been drawn to the effects of rickets on the teeth. Lawson 
Dick l pointed out in 1916 that the effects of rickets were 
traceable in the teeth among school-children in whom the 
trouble itself had left little else that was obvious. This 
observation has been confirmed by other observers, and the 
whole subject has received great enlightenment from the 
researches of Dr. and Mrs. Mellanby, which are referred to 
again later. Mrs. Mellanby a showed that the teeth are 
softened in rickets just as is the rest of the osseous system. 
Further, the enamel is damaged and the teeth become 
irregular ; this is shown in fig. 59. The jaws of three puppies 
are shown, the only difference in the diet being in the kind 
of fat given. In the case of the dog 145 linseed-oil was given, 

1 Proc. Roy. Soc. Med., 1916, vol. ix, p. 83. 

2 Lancet, December 1918. 



NOTES ON RICKETS AND SCURVY 311 

and it can be seen that the teeth have got little or no enamel 
and are irregular. In the case of the dog 148 with cod-liver 
oil the enamel is perfect and the teeth well developed and 
regular. The dog with butter (dog 146) has fairly good 
enamel, but not so good as in dog 148. Dog 145 was a bad 




FIG. 59. Dog 145 received linseed oil as fat in its diet. Dog 146 
received butter, and dog 148 cod-liver oil. In dog 145 the largest tooth 
has no enamel and the front teeth are irregular. In dog 146 there is some 
irregularity in the front teeth and the back teeth are not quite so well 
forward as in dog 148. The front teeth in the last dog are quite regular. 
All these dogs were of the same litter. 

case of rickets. The bones of the other two dogs were 
normal. 

The most important point in regard to the teeth from the 
hygienic point of view is that the condition of the first teeth 
has a marked effect on the condition of the permanent teeth. 
This is of serious import to the health of the child and adult, 
and leaves no doubt that every effort should be made to 
prevent even a mild rickety condition, if this is possible. 



312 HYGIENE 

The visible deformities arising from rickets are not neces- 
sarily the most serious ones. 

It has long been known that cod-liver oil is a good 
means of curing rickety manifestations, and the disease has 
been regarded as possibly due to a deficiency of fat in the 
food. It was realized, however, that this did not supply 
the full explanation of the cause. Puppies contract rickets 
fairly readily, and have been used for experimental purposes 
by various observers during the last few years. The Glasgow 
investigators attribute the onset of rickets mainly to lack 
of general hygiene, especially of exercise. Mellanby, how- 
ever, disagrees with this, and believes that the diet is the 
responsible factor, and that the condition is dependent 
upon the presence or absence of vitamines in the diet. 

Mellanby used a diet consisting of separated milk, white 
bread, and linseed oil, this last being taken to replace the 
cream of the milk ; yeast and orange-juice were also added 
to provide sufficient of vitamine B and of the anti-scorbutic 
factor. The puppies were six weeks old when the experi- 
ments were begun. On the above diet, which, except as 
to the bread, was given in definite amounts, the puppies 
developed well-marked rickets within about six weeks. If, 
however, cod-liver oil was used in place of linseed oil, rickets 
did not develop, and, in cases where rickets had already 
shown itself, a cure could be effected with cod-liver oil. 
A great number of experiments were carried out, and it 
seems fairly clear that the anti-rachitic substance must be 
the same as vitamine A. Mellanby found that confine- 
ment had no effect on the puppy if the diet was suitable. 
The position is not quite so simple as is stated above, as 
he found that an important factor was the rate of growth 
of the young dog. If the growth was slow the animal was 
less liable to develop rickets on a doubtful diet than if the 
growth was rapid. That is to say, if growth is taking place 
rapidly the growth factor provided by vitamine A is more 
urgently required to prevent rickets, or more accurately 
perhaps to maintain the proper balance and direction of 
growth. Generally the animal and fish fats were found to 



NOTES ON RICKETS AND SCURVY 313 

be greatly more powerful in preventing rickets than vege- 
table oils, although there was considerable variety among 
these last. 

It is impossible to enter into the valuable work done in 
detail. Those interested will find a discussion of the recent 
literature in the Report of the Medical Research Council, 
No. 38, to which reference has already been repeatedly 
made. 

There appears to be an idea that the school of thought 
at Glasgow and Mellanby's experiments are widely at 
variance, but, in fact, there is no difficulty in seeing that 
there is truth in both. The experiments illustrate the 
facts which should be grasped by all hygienists, namely, 
that the systems of the body are interdependent and not 
independent. It is reasonably certain that diet plays a 
very important part in the production of rickets in children, 
and Mellanby's experiments demonstrate the importance of 
securing a sufficiency of vitamine A in the diet. Ordinarily 
this is obtained in milk in the early months of life, and 
later should be obtained in the mixed dietary, the importance 
of which has already been explained. Naturally butter 
will be a good ingredient to assist in the provision of 
vitamine A. 

Given suitable conditions for the development of the 
various systems, an adequate supply of milk either breast- 
milk, or, if needs must, of cow's milk with the cream 
fresh air and cleanly conditions, satisfactory clothing of the 
right kind in fact, good general hygienic conditions the 
body, in the great majority of cases, will develop normally. 
If the age of weaning be unduly postponed and no additional 
food supplied, or if the food given be badly balanced as to 
its constituents, or if the child be kept in a hot, stuffy room 
with little or no fresh air, if its clothing be excessive or 
deficient, and its condition of cleanliness leaves much to 
be desired, some one or more systems will suffer and will 
inevitably affect the others. In one case the result may 
be that the child will not thrive, or that it may have 
indigestion, or it may develop rickets, according as to which 



314 HYGIENE 

aspect of the balance necessary between the systems is 
upset by the conditions of its life. 

The knowledge at present available cannot tell us pre- 
cisely which combination of adverse conditions is likely to 
produce any given state ; but it is sufficient to tell us what 
to avoid. We know that diet is of immense importance for 
adequate growth, and that certain substances must be 
present to keep that growth on the right lines. We also 
know that, in order to secure health, there must be fresh air 
and freedom of movement, sufficient warmth but not over- 
heating, together with care in a variety of other matters. 

There is no object in overloading the child with any 
special vitamine just to make sure that it gets enough. 
The suggestion that all babies, whether breast-fed or not, 
should take cod-liver oil in order to prevent rickets is really 
an extravagant one. Let attention be devoted to the 
mother's diet, on the lines already considered, and in the 
case of the artificially fed baby the mixture should contain 
some milk-fat to supply the vitamine necessary. Excess of 
fat may produce a condition of fat dyspepsia which is not 
easy to cure. 

Mellanby's observation that the greater the rate of growth 
the greater the liability to rickets is in entire conformity 
with clinical experience. It is not the small, slowly growing 
but healthy little baby that develops rickets, but the fat, 
heavy, rapidly growing child, whose diet is badly balanced 
and whose metabolism tends to be abnormal. 

It is impossible to say that any one factor diet, stuffiness, 
etc. is entirely responsible for the production of rickets. 
Such a statement would be in direct contravention of 
general experience, which teaches us that there is inter- 
action between the systems, and that an unsatisfactory 
state of one of them will also affect the others. It may 
safely be said that at no time of life is the interdependence 
more marked than in infancy, when the systems are im- 
mature and have not attained the condition of stability 
which comes with fuller development. 



NOTES ON RICKETS AND SCURVY 315 

INFANTILE SCURVY 

Infantile scurvy would appear to be produced by the 
absence of the anti-scorbutic vitamine in the dietary. The 
disease has always attracted great attention, rather by its 
dramatic nature than by its prevalence, especially in this 
country. The child which has developed scurvy is very 
ill and very fretful, is clearly in great pain on the slightest 
movement, and its condition altogether most heartrending. 
With the admini'stration of the necessary factor an immediate 
improvement sets in, followed by an amazingly rapid restora- 
tion to health. Hence, therefore, it would appear that 
there is a disease affecting the whole body and leading, if 
neglected, to death, which is cured by the administration 
of one particular factor in the diet. 

The natural and very proper sequence of events has been 
that there is great anxiety lest the food supplied to the 
infant should not contain a sufficiency of this factor. The 
most usual age for scurvy to develop is at the end of the 
first year of life, namely, at a time when the change from 
a milk diet to a mixed diet is taking place. It may, how- 
ever, occur at an earlier or at a later stage. Nothing is 
known as to the amount of the factor required to prevent 
scurvy, and the tendency at the present time appears to be 
to give so much of it that it is quite certain there is no 
deficiency. The anti-scorbutic factor is found in good 
quantities in fruit and vegetable juices. Further, there is 
evidence that the factor concerned is sensitive to either 
prolonged or excessive heat. 

A large number of experiments were carried out at the 
Lister Institute l with milk which had been heated for one 
hour at 120 C. and then fed to guinea-pigs or monkeys, 
the energy value of the diet being made up of substances 
which contain none of this vitamine. The animals developed 
scurvy on this diet. Following on this, assertions have 
been made that the anti-scorbutic factor is destroyed if 

1 Barnes and Hume, Lancet, 1919, vol. ii, p. 233 ; and Biochemical 
Journal, 1919, vol. xiii, p. 306. 



316 HYGIENE 

milk is heated. This, however, is too loose a method of 
speech. The experiments undoubtedly showed that pro- 
longed boiling of milk had a destructive effect on the 
anti-scorbutic factor, but it did not show that " heating " 
milk did so without further definition of the term. This is 
one of the dangers already pointed out in connection with 
the loose methods of speech in regard to heated milk. No 
one boils milk for an hour in the feeding of infants, on 
account of its impracticability. There is no evidence 
whatever to show that milk which has been either heated 
quickly ta 100 C. and rapidly cooled, or milk which has 
been pasteurised, as described in Chapter XXII, has been 
rendered unsuitable for infants. On the contrary, there is 
evidence against this. The weight-curves of infants avail- 
able at hundreds of child welfare centres in this and other 
countries show that milk which has been pasteurised or 
rapidly boiled, or dried, contains an adequate supply of the 
growth factors, and also of the anti-scorbutic factor. The 
children do not develop scurvy on such a diet. 

The upholders of the statement that pasteurised or 
rapidly boiled or dried milk produces scurvy in infants show 
a tendency to brush aside all the evidence in medical litera- 
ture, and in the common knowledge of the whole profession. 
They state that the medical profession has failed to detect 
the cases of scurvy, or perhaps of incipient scurvy, which, 
it is alleged, must certainly have been present. 

These assertions, while hardly doing justice to the powers 
of observation of the medical profession, are based on 
unfounded premises. It is assumed that experiments on 
guinea-pigs and monkeys are directly applicable to infants, 
and it is further assumed that there is no distinction between 
the highly heated milk kept at 120 C. for an hour, and the 
rapid methods of heating employed in pasteurisation or in 
drying milk (cp. p. 297 on the temperatures used in drying 
milk). 

A series of experiments was conducted at the Lister 
Institute on monkeys of different ages and varieties. They 
were fed on a mixed diet, but which, apart from the milk 



NOTES ON RICKETS AND SCURVY 317 

given, was believed to contain no anti-scorbutic vitamine. 
The results obtained with raw milk showed that about 100- 
150 c.c. per day was sufficient to protect from scurvy. The 
results with cow's milk varied a good deal : in one case, 
scurvy was produced when 200 c.c. of the dried milk re-made 
into the fluid was given, but in other cases it was not pro- 
duced. The authors consider that the difference was due 
to the fact that some of the milk was obtained by drying 
during the winter months and some during the summer 
months, and that the difference in the results was due to 
the change in the cows' diet from dried foods to grass. In 
one case, where scurvy had already developed on 200 c.c. 
dried milk, the amount was replaced by 200 c.c. of milk 
which had been scalded in an open pan and left to cool. 
This produced a rapid cure of the scurvy, showing that the 
milk thus treated had not lost its anti-scorbutic properties. 1 
It may be that the milk in question had suffered some 
slight diminution in amount of the factor, but there is no 
evidence on this point. The milk heated by this process was 
found to have been at a temperature between 70 C. and 
100 C. for about five and a half minutes. In most house- 
holds, if the milk is boiled in an open pan, so soon as it has 
begun to froth it will probably be poured into a cold jug and 
left to stand in cold water, having fairly certainly been 
exposed to a high temperature for a shorter period than 
5-| minutes. Milk pasteurised in a double saucepan or in 
little bottles for infants would also have been heated for a 
shorter period, and does not at any time reach a temperature 
of 100 C. If, therefore, scalded milk produced a cure it may 
safely be assumed that pasteurised milk would have done so. 
These experiments do not bear the direct interpretation that 
dried milk would produce scurvy in infants. They show 
merely that some an ti- scorbutic power is lost in drying, so 
that, given in amounts of 200 c.c. per day, it does not suffice 
to prevent scurvy in a monkey of unknown age. The relative 
amounts of the factor required by a monkey and an infant 
are not known, and the amounts of milk are not comparable, 

1 Loc. cit. 



3i8 HYGIENE 

as the infant takes a great deal more than 200 c.c. per day. 
There is, in addition, a very important point to be con- 
sidered, namely, whether the infant requires the same amount 
of vitamine per kilo of body weight as the other species. 
As its rate of growth is less it will, therefore, possibly require 
relatively less of the growth or protective factors ; but this 
is not known. Again, the amount of the factor ordinarily 
present in human milk is not known ; it is not unlikely that 
it may prove to be below that in cow's milk. The cow in 
summer lives on grass, during which period its milk is known 
to be richer in vitamines than in winter. If there is a dimi- 
nution in the food factors as a result of cooking, then it must 
be supposed that the mother's food, and hence her milk, will 
be poorer in vitamines generally than that of the cow. But, 
if cooking does not destroy vitamines, then the heating sug- 
gested for milk will not do so. 

Scurvy is not unknown in breast-fed infants. Morse, 1 in 
1914, quoted three cases of scurvy in breast-fed babies. In 
this case it is reasonable to assume that the mothers' diet 
was deficient in accessory food factors. 

For the present it will be sufficient to take clinical evidence 
as convincing, and it is not unreasonable to suppose that, 
when the war and its abnormal conditions have faded a 
little into the background, investigation will be undertaken 
into the question of vitamines in relation to normal dietaries 
and normal methods of cooking and of heating milk. It 
may be that there is some loss of all factors in certain or all 
of the ordinary processes of cooking, but it is reasonably 
certain that there is a margin of such substances in the food 
which allows for some destruction in the process of cooking, 
while leaving an adequate supply in the food taken. 

The reader may be reminded that milk should not be 
heated twice : this has been found to be a source of scurvy 
(cp. p. 271) ; but how far it is due to the length of time over 
which such milk will almost certainly have been kept, and 
how far to the double heating, is not known. In the mean- 
time, it will suffice to bear in mind the general requirements 

1 \American Journal of Obstetrics, 1914. 



NOTES ON RICKETS AND SCURVY 



319 



of the body for both adults and infants, remembering that 
the diet of the mother should contain the necessary food 
factors. She should be encouraged to take a varied diet, 
which should include vegetables and fruits, both on account 
of her own health and that of the child. 

There is no harm in adding fruit- juice to the food of an 
artificially fed child, but equally it has not been shown to be 
really necessary, and only adds to the expense and trouble 
of the mother. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

GROWTH AND GROWTH FACTORS IN INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD 

GROWTH in infancy and later depends upon many factors. 
There are certain general directions of growth which, so far 
as may be, operate in all infants and children : these are the 
internal factors ; but they can be and are known to be widely 
modified by external circumstances, notably by diet. 

During the first few weeks of life the infant loses weight, 
the day after which it regains its birth- weight varying from 
the fifth to the tenth or even the fourteenth day. Much 
work has been carried out with a view to ascertaining the 
cause of this drop in weight and whether any advantage 
could be effected by devising means for preventing it. It 
has been found x that, although loss of total weight occurs, 
there is a positive nitrogen balance, which indicates that the 
building up of tissue is progressing side by side with loss of 
weight. If a newly born child was fed by a wet-nurse whose 
milk has passed the colostral stage, a negative nitrogen 
balance was then found. 2 The loss is due largely, if not 
entirely, to loss of excreta and water which, during the early 
days of life, is not replaced in the food. There is the loss 
by the passage of meconium and urine, in addition to the 
loss from the lungs and skin. The amount of fluid given off 
from these sources is considerable, but the amount of fluid 
taken in is small. In the early days after birth the mammary 
gland is giving very little secretion, although that which is 
given is rich in nitrogen. Camerer 8 has stated that the loss 

1 Birk. Monats. f. Kinderh., 1910, vol. ix, p. 595 ; Griffith and Gittings, 
Arch, of Fed., May 1907. 

2 Birk., loc. cit. 

3 Quoted by Schlossmann and Pfaundler, in Diseases of Children, vol. i. 

320 



GROWTH AND GROWTH FACTORS 



321 



in weight is the same as the total losses from the sources 
mentioned, minus the amount of fluid taken. The experi- 
ment was carried out on a newly born girl who was the fifth 
child. Thus the gland got into working order more rapidly 
than is the case with the first or second children. 



Days. 


Amount of 
milk (in 
grammes) . 


Losses in grammes. 


Loss from 
skin and 
lungs. 


Sum of 
losses. 


Change in 
body-weight. 


Urine 


Faeces and 








meconmm. 








I 


10 


48 


51 fmeco- 


98 


IQ7 


- 187 


2 


91 


53 


26 \mium 


79 


158 


- 67 


3 
4 


247 

337 


172 
226 


3 jfeces 


85 
92 


260 
321 


- 13 
16 



Rott 1 has shown that during the process of the loss of 
weight the blood becomes more concentrated, the reverse 
occurring as the weight again rises, the blood becoming 
normal when the birth- weight is regained. "The loss of weight 
can be prevented by giving additional human milk during 
the early days of life. The prevention of the loss did not, 
however, after a few weeks had elapsed, show that any ad- 
vantage had been derived by the infant. 

The loss of weight is rapidly regained by breast-fed babies, 
probably owing to the very rapid increase in the amount of 
breast-milk. The amounts of breast-milk taken which are 
shown on fig. 56 on p. 291 show that the average daily amount 
of breast-milk obtained after the first week is between 500 
and 600 c.c., or between 17^ and 21 ozs. Now, the artificially 
fed infant cannot be given as much modified cow's milk as 
this, and for reasons which have already been explained 
receives usually not more than about one-half this amount, 
and may receive less than that. Hence the regaining of 
the birth-weight is a slower process than with the breast- 
fed baby. 

The weight-curve alone does not represent the growth 
which is taking place, and it is necessary to take into con- 
sideration the growth in length as well as the growth in 

1 Rott, Zeit. f, Kindah. I, 1910, p. 43. 
21 



322 HYGIENE 

weight. For example, a child fed on foods with much sugar, 
such as condensed milk, may become very heavy, but it will 
not necessarily be growing proportionately in other respects. 
Unfortunately, growth in length is more difficult to measure 
than growth in weight, as infants do not readily lie down 
flat so as to give accurate length-measurements. They do 
not always readily sit or lie still in a scale-pan, but it is 
usually easier to weigh them accurately than to measure 
them. No comprehensive investigations have been pub- 
lished showing the simultaneous growth in weight and 
length of the infant in its early days, and there is evidence 
that the two forms of growth are to some extent inde- 
pendent. 

The growth in weight will be considered first. 

Numerous investigations have been made of the weight- 
curves of infants, both in this and in other countries, and 
nearly everyone is familiar with the w T eight-curves of sup- 
posedly normal infants which are shown as a red line on the 
charts used at many child welfare centres. In actual fact 
there is no absolute rate of growth in weight which a child 
could show if it is to be regarded as normal, nor is the rate of 
growth constant. As a whole the rate of growth is greater 
during the weeks after the birth- weight had been regained and 
gradually slows down thereafter. In the first few weeks an 
increase of weight of as much as 8 ozs. may be recorded in a 
week, but this will gradually fall to 6 ozs. or later to 4 ozs., 
and towards the second year of life to about 2 ozs. ; but 
these figures are only the roughest indication of the child's 
progress. Very few children show a weekly increase which 
is the same for any two weeks in succession. Thus, a 
perfectly healthy infant may gain 10 ozs. one week and 6 ozs. 
the next, followed by a gain, say, of 9 ozs. and 7 ozs. There 
is no fixed figure, and, so long as a gain approximating to the 
average is shown, no further close comparison with so-called 
normal weight-curves need be made. Even where large 
numbers of children are investigated and the average weight 
taken, great fluctuations in the rate of increase are shown. 
The Berlin material worked up for the Local Government 



Percentage Inc 
in 8 day Peril 



SHOWING PERCENTAGE RATE OF INCREASE FOR EACH 
PERIOD OF EIGHT DAYS ON THE INFANTS OF BOTH SERIES 
(CONTROL & BOILED COWS MILK) UP TO THE AGE OF EIGHT 

MONTHS 

Infants of Series I 



Percentage Increase 
in 8 day Periods. 

9 




FIG. 60. 



323 



324 HYGIENE 

Board by Lane-Claypon l shows the wide variations both 
in breast-fed and bottle-fed babies. 

Figure 60 shows the variation. 

The plain line shows the percentage rate of increase 
each period of eight days of the breast-fed babies (Series I) 
and the dotted line that of the artificially fed ones (Series II), 
up to about the end of the eighth month of life. It will be 
noticed that the early high rate of increase falls sharply after 
about the first six or eight weeks, and then falls more slowly, 
with great weekly fluctuations throughout the whole period 
under investigation. These must not be taken as absolute 
rates, but they show that, even when large numbers of 
weights are taken, there is still no regularity of increase. 

Mothers and nurses often get agitated and distressed 
because the baby is not putting on weight regularly, whereas 
such a process would be the exception and not -the rule. 
The general trend of the weight-curve should be upwards, 
but a temporary drop in weight is usually found with any 
general disturbance, such as a cold or a cough, a mild attack 
of diarrhoea, or other ailment. The weight-curve does not 
take a straight but a zig-zag path in the great majority of 
cases. Even when 130 breast-fed children were examined 
collectively z the resulting weights did not present a regular 
curve, but an irregular one (cp. fig. 61). 

The plain line shows the breast-fed babies and the dotted 
line the artificially fed ones. After the first few days there 
is, comparatively, little difference in the rate of growth of 
the average breast-fed baby and the artificially fed baby, 
although the Berlin material seems to show that the actual 
average weight of the bottle-baby is slightly below that of 
the breast-fed baby during the first six months of life, after 
which little or no difference can be detected. This is shown 
in fig. 62, where the weights of 300 breast-babies and 204 
bottle-babies have been charted. 3 

1 Lane-Claypon, Report to the Local Government Board, New Series, 
No. 63. 

2 Ibid. 

3 The bottle-fed babies were all fed on cow's milk of good quality, which 
had just been brought to the boil and afterwards cooled and modified. 



GROWTH AND GROWTH FACTORS 



325 



It must not, however, be thought that the curves shown 
and the fact that the rate of growth is almost identical in the 
two series prove that there is no advantage in breast-feeding. 
This would be entirely erroneous. The records taken for 
investigation were not consecutive because when the child 
had died during the first year of life or ceased to attend, the 



Weight in 

Grammes 

7.OOO, 



6.000 



5,000 



4.000 



3.OOO 



SHOWING THE AVERAGE WEIGHT OF ISO INFANTS EXCLU- 
SIVELY BREAST-FED & OF 119 INFANTS EXCLUSIVELY FED 
UPON BOILED MILK UP TO ZOO DAYS OF AGE. OF THE 
119 INFANTS 78 HAD NEVER BEEN BREAST-FED AND 4-1 ... . . 
HAD BEEN BREAST-FED FOR 8 DAYS OR LESS. Grammes 

7.OOO 




5,000 



- 4-.OOO 



3000 



FIG. 61. 



whole record was discarded, whether the child was breast-fed 
or bottle-fed. The records examined showed clearly what is 
a commonplace to those engaged in work among children, 
that the breast-babies suffered from many fewer minor 
ailments (all recorded on the charts examined) than did the 
bottle-babies. Further, there is already abundant evidence 




326 



GROWTH AND GROWTH FACTORS 



327 



showing that .it is bottle-babies who die in much greater 
numbers than breast-fed babies during the first year of life. 
After the first year of life the growth in weight is rela- 
tively slow. Weight figures have been worked out by the 
Anthropometrical Society giving the average weight for both 
boys and girls at different ages. From these it is seen that 
there are slight sex differences : girls as a whole grow more 
rapidly in weight between the ages of 13 and 16, while boys 
show the most rapid period of growth slightly later in life. 
Table C shows the figures in their entirety. Further data 
will probably be available shortly, as investigations are 
proceeding from Oxford University. 

TABLE C. AVERAGE HEIGHT (WITHOUT SHOES) AT DIFFERENT AGES 
Boys heavy type. Girls light type 



Age last 
birthday. 


Height- 
inches. 


Increase. 


Age last 
birthday. 


Height- 
inches. 


Increase. 


Birth. 


20-6 




II 


53-5 


1-7 




20-5 






53'i 


2-1 


i 


29 


8-4 


12 


55 


1-5 




28-7 


8-2 




55-6 


2-5 


2 


32-5 


3-5 


13 


57 


2 




32-5 


3-8 




57'7 


2-1 


3 


35 


2-5 


J 4 


59-3 


2-3 




35 


2'5 




59-8 


2-1 


4 


38 


3 


15 


62-2 


2-9 




38 


3 




60-9 


i-i 


5 


41 


3 


16 


64-3 


2-1 




4'5 


i-5 




61-7 


0-8 


6 


44 


3 


i? 


66-2 


1-9 




42-8 


2'3 




62-5 


0-8 


7 


46 


2 


18 


669 


0-7 




44'5 


1-7 




62-4 





8 


47 




19 


67-3 


0-4 




46-6 


2-1 




62-7 


o-3 


9 


49-7 


2-7 


20 


67-5 


0-2 




48-7 


2-1 




62-9 


0-2 


10 


51-8 


2-1 


21 


67-6 


0-1 




51 


2-3 




63 


O-I 



Holt 1 finds that growth is more rapid in summer than in 
winter. Weight can vary within wide limits, and the child 
be healthy ; below a certain increase, however, there is 
usually either a deficiency of diet or some diseased condition. 

1 American Journal for Diseases of Children, 1918. 



328 



HYGIENE 



A too rapid increase in weight may also be a danger signal. 
The very fat child is by no means necessarily strong. In the 
early months great obesity will probably be due to a badly 
balanced diet and is often accompanied by rickety changes. 
In a breast-fed baby rickets may not be present, but the 
abnormally fat baby is usually more liable to colds and 
bronchitis than his brother or sister whose tissues are less 
infiltrated with fat. The weight will evidently vary to some 
extent with the nature of the diet and with the amount of 
exercise taken. Everyone, however, is familiar with the 
person of large appetite who does not grow fat, and with the 
person of small appetite who does not grow thin. These are 
intrinsic problems of metabolism outside the scope of this 
work, and still requiring investigation. 

In cases where the amount of adipose tissue is excessive 
at any age there may be deficiency of thyroid secretion ; the 
condition is then pathological, and requires medical treat- 
ment. 

TABLE D. AVERAGE WEIGHT AT DIFFERENT AGES 
Boys heavy type. Girls light type 



Age last 
birthday. 


Weight- 
pounds. 


Increase. 


Age last 
birthday. 


Weight- 
pounds. 


Increase. 


Birth. 


75 




II 


72 


4-5 




7-2 






68 


6 


i 


205 


13 


12 


76-7 


4-7 




19-8 


12-6 




76-4 


8-4 


2 


26-5 


6 


J 3 


82-6 


6-9 




25-5 


5'7 




87-2 


10-8 


3 


31 2 


4-7 


M 


92 


9-4 




30 


4'5 




96-7 


9-5 


4 


35 


3-8 


15 


102-7 


10-7 




34 


4 




1 06 


9-3 


5 


41-2 


6-2 


16 


119 


16-3 




39-2 


5-2 




113-1 


6-8 


6 


44-4 


2-2 


!7 


130 


11 




41-7 


2'5 




ii5 


2'4 


7 


497 


53 


18 


137-4 


7-4 




47'5 


5-8 




I2I-I 


5-6 


8 


549 


52 


19 


139-6 


22 




52-1 


4-6 




123-8 


2-7 


9 


60-4 


55 


20 


1433 


3-7 




55'5 


3*4 




123-4 





10 


675 


71 


21 


145-2 


1-9 




62 


6-5 




I2I-8 


_ 



GROWTH AND GROWTH FACTORS 



329 



Growth in length appears to be to some extent independent 
of the weight. Pfaundler states that the length of a child 
varies as the cube of the age, the age being taken from the 
date of conception, not from the date of birth. He finds 
conceptional age to be equal to the cube of the length 
multiplied by a constant which is 475. Conversely, if the 
length is known the conceptional age can be ascertained. 
Evidently this will give only the average figures, and there 
will be wide variations within normal limits. 




New-born 



2S Years. 



FIG. 63. Showing the proportionate size of the head and the rest 
of the body at different ages. 

The average height has also been worked out by the 
Anthropological Society, for boys and girls, and the figures 
are given in Table D. 

Further comprehensive investigations are promised from 
America, but have not as yet been published (Woodbury 
Jour, of Phys. Anthrop., 1919, vol. ii, p. 196). 

The child's head at birth is relatively large in proportion 
to its total length ; after birth the body grows proportion- 
ately more than the head, as is seen in fig. 63. 



330 HYGIENE 

The Relation of Feeding to Growth. Of recent years 
the investigations on vitamines have been rightly held to have 
a bearing upon infant feeding. This is a subject of great 
importance, but the very fact of its importance and of the 
far-reaching nature of any conclusions drawn make it 
imperative that no hasty or rash deductions should be made. 

It should, however, be borne in mind that abundance of 
vitamines alone, without sufficient food-stuffs, will not secure 
adequate growth, any more than will abundance of food-stuffs 
without the necessary vitamines. The great advantage of a 
mixed dietary for the fuel value is that thereby all the vita- 
mines are more likely to be present in sufficient amounts. 

The experiments on rats made by Hopkins and by 
McCollum show the importance of the vitamines for growth. 
In Hopkins's experiments the vitamines present in so minute 
a quantity as 2 c.c. of milk sufficed to make all the difference 
between growth and its complete absence (cp. fig. 38). It is 
believed that both fat-soluble A and water-soluble B are 
concerned with growth, and the anti-scorbutic factor, if not 
itself directly concerned, will, if absent, after a time cause 
such disturbances of metabolism as to inhibit growth. It 
must be assumed that it is of vital importance to the child 
that its diet should contain a sufficiency of these food and 
growth factors. But up to the present there is little or no 
evidence as to the amounts of these factors which are essential 
to infants or adults. 

Much work has been done * on the amounts of the various 
foods which protect against scurvy in guinea-pigs or against 
beri-beri in pigeons. The amounts have been carefully 
worked out, and there is every reason to believe that they are 
accurate. It is not, however, possible to apply these results 
categorically to infant feeding : far from it ; experiments 
on animals, while of the utmost value as a general basis, 
cannot be assumed as directly applicable in all details to 
human beings, and especially to infants. Guinea-pigs, rats, 
and infants are ah 1 different. They are severally born in 
different stages of maturity, and the duration of the time 

1 Cp. Report of Medical Research Council, No. 38. 



GROWTH AND GROWTH FACTORS 331 

during which they are wholly dependent on their mothers 
also varies. Further, there is no evidence whatever that 
equal amounts of accessory substances are required by 
different species of animals. In fact, the assumption is that 
it is not so, since rats do not appear to be liable to scurvy, 
even when dietaries which would be supposed to induce 
it are given. On the other hand, rats are very suitable 
animals to use for investigations into the other accessory 
factors. 

Inasmuch as human beings take the greater part of their 
food cooked, the resistance to heat of these factors becomes 
important. Especially is this the case in war time when 
tinned and concentrated foods have to be widely used by 
armies on the march. A great part of the investigations 
have, therefore, very naturally been carried out on foods 
which had been subjected to a high or a prolonged tempera- 
ture, sometimes to both. Normal infant or adult feeding is 
not really concerned with these abnormal temperatures. It 
is a matter of common experience that tinned foods are not 
so nutritious as fresh foods, and that dishes that have been 
repeatedly cooked or warmed up are not so good as freshly 
cooked ones. The evidence as to the heat-resisting power 
of vitamines A and B is somewhat conflicting. It seems, 
however, that they are capable of withstanding a tempera- 
ture of 100 C. for at any rate some minutes, if not longer. 
Generally, therefore, the temperatures ordinarily employed 
in cooking may probably be taken as having little or no 
effect on these two vitamines. It is undesirable on all 
grounds to boil vegetables or any kind of food longer than is 
really necessary to make it tender or to render it safe for 
eating. There is nothing to be gained by prolonging the 
period of heating, but the reverse. It is not always appre- 
ciated that, even though the temperature of an oven when 
used for roasting or baking may be well over 200 C., 
the temperature in the inner part of the object cooked will 
never reach anywhere near that figure. The temperature 
inside a well-done joint of meat should only reach 72 C., 
or the whole joint will be over-done. The temperature 



332 HYGIENE 

inside cakes and puddings has not apparently been investi- 
gated, but there is no reason to suppose that there would 
be any fundamental difference in principle. Most things 
cook at a temperature below that of boiling point of 
water, as is evidenced by haybox cookery. Here the 
temperature must fall rapidly at first on being placed in the 
box, and the cooking must be carried out at a heat figure 
well below boiling point. 

The addition of alkali is stated to act detrimentally upon 
vitamines A and B ; but, apart from this, practically nothing 
is known as to the effect on these vitamines of the ordinary 
processes employed in domestic cookery. It may be that 
a portion of the vitamines is destroyed by the temperatures 
used, but if this is so (and it has not yet been shown to 
be the case) then presumably the amounts present in an 
ordinary mixed dietary are sufficiently in excess to admit 
of some loss in cooking. Barnes and Hume, 1 working with 
dried milk, found no direct evidence of any loss of vitamines 
A and B, although their experiments were not directly 
concerned with these bodies. 

It is plain from the weight-curves of infants fed on boiled 
or on dried milk that, even if there is a loss of the growth 
factor, there is still an abundant supply remaining in the 
heated products, and this although milk is not a food par- 
ticularly rich in vitamine B. 

There is no apparent object in taking amounts of vita- 
mines greatly in excess of requirements, and so long as a 
sufficiency is secured no anxiety need be experienced. A 
mixed dietary has long been realized to be of importance 
both for infants and adults. This is further emphasized 
by the work on vitamines A and B, and our knowledge of 
the food-stuffs in which these are relatively plentiful is useful 
in order that an adequate supply may be assured. It is very 
likely that enough attention has not as yet been devoted to 
the importance of a suitable mixed dietary for the pregnant 
and nursing woman. On the other hand, as has already 
been pointed out, although milk contains all the vitamines, 

1 Biochemical Journal, 1919, vol. xiii, p. 306. 



GROWTH AND GROWTH FACTORS 333 

it is not rich in any other than vitamine A and is for other 
reasons unsuitable to play a large part in the necessary diet. 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 

A few remarks seem necessary on the development of the 
muscular system. This is, of course, closely associated with 
the development of the bones and joints, but the joint effect 




FIG. 64. Two days' old child. 

is shown in the condition of the muscles. A well-knit bony 
system implies good muscle tone and vice versa. 

The following pictures show the gradual development, 
during the first year of life, of the muscular tone. In fig. 64 
the child has little or no power of supporting itself, but 
wobbles helplessly. In fig. 65 it is seen to be able to raise 
its head, and there is a suggestion of dawning intelligence in 
the attitude. Later, in fig. 66, it has sufficient muscular tone 
to hold the body fairly upright when supported. In fig. 67 



334 



HYGIENE 



it is just able to stand upright when supported with two 
hands. The expression of the face suggests that the whole 
is somewhat of an adventure, and the position of the feet 




FIG. 65. Breast-fed baby, six weeks old. 

shows that the child is only held upright by the hands at 
the side and back. Fig. 68 shows the child almost standing 
alone. The feet are more firmly planted, slightly apart 




FIG. 66. Breast-fed baby, 3 J months old. 

so as to serve as a support, and the whole attitude of the 
body expresses relative ease as compared with the preceding 
figure. 



GROWTH AND GROWTH FACTORS 335 

After the child can walk easily it is important that it 
should be required to walk and sit straight. It should not 
be allowed to loll about with its arms and body held in any 
curious position. The need for a correct posture during 
sleep has already been mentioned, and the position when 
awake is also of great importance. When the whole system 
is pliable and is growing a deformity may result if the child 
is allowed to adopt continually a faulty posture. Curvature 




FIG. 67. Breast-fed baby, six months old. 

of the spine, while due to a variety of causes, may be 
produced by a continued incorrect position. Too often 
children are allowed to slouch instead of holding themselves 
upright and being a little brisk in appearance. These 
postures in walking and sitting are often merely a habit, and 
can be altered quite easily with a little persistence on the 
part of those in charge. If the school furniture is too low, 
or the relation of desk and seat incorrect, then the fault may 



336 HYGIENE 

not lie with the child. Details as to school furniture will be 
found in other text-books on hygiene. 

Again, if the light is bad the child may bend over or turn 
the body at an angle so as to secure sufficient light. The 
muscles are placed for prolonged periods in faulty positions 




FIG. 68. Breast-fed baby, nine months old. 

and acquire the habit of such a posture, dragging the bones 
to which they are attached out of their true position. 

The carrying of heavy weights may also produce deformity. 
The small girl who carries on her arm a baby looking nearly 
as large as herself will stand a great risk of deformity of 
the spine and its muscles. She will usually carry the child 



GROWTH AND GROWTH FACTORS 



337 



on her left arm, leaving the right arm free for other purposes. 
Any heavy weight which is frequently carried by any group 
of muscles will have a similar effect. The position required 
for some musical instruments may lead to some degree oi 
spinal curvature if care be not taken to see that the child 
stands straight. 

The danger of faulty posture should by no means be 
ignored. Not only is it of great importance for the whole 
muscular system, but it undoubtedly exercises an influence 
on the mind. 




FIG. 69. A, faulty position and furniture. B, correct position and 
furniture. Note the relative positions of the trunk, arms, and legs. Note 
also the rest for reading. 

Figs. 69-71 show the attitudes likely to cause trouble and 
simultaneously convey an attitude of mind. 

Attitudes of mind are assumed by both children and adults 
as readily as attitudes of body. If a child be allowed to be 
idle and discontented (the two frequently go hand in hand) 
its mind will take that attitude. If, however, it be required 
gently but firmly to be helpful and contented, its mind will 
acquire those habits, and will influence its whole life and 
career. Those who contend that mental characteristics 
cannot be altered, presumably mean that they are difficult 
to alter in adult life ; they are certainly more difficult to 
change after childhood has been passed, but the difficulty 
22 



338 HYGIENE 

often lies in our own disinclination to exercise the^needful 
discipline and self-control. 

The spoilt, badly-brought-up child is very often a nuisance 





A B 

FIG. 70. A, Faulty position of desk for writing. B, correct desk and 
posture. Here also note position of trunk, arms, and legs. 

to himself and others on reaching adult life. How early the 
characteristic habits and attitudes are adopted it is difficult 





A 



F IG . 7 ! ._A shows faulty posture at the piano. B shows correct posture 

to say. There can, however, be little doubt of the immense, 
often unconscious influence of the habits formed or allowed 
to form during the early years of childhood, which may 



GROWTH AND GROWTH FACTORS 339 

affect the whole later life for good or ill. For each indi- 
vidual makes so many of his or her own circumstances. It 
may be that much also is beyond our own control, but the 
indolent mind and body, which will not grasp the chances 
offered/are more often to blame for our misfortunes than we 
are perhaps willing to admit. The influence of the mind on 
general health is now widely recognized, and it is, therefore, 
of importance that such attitudes of mind as will tend to 
good health should be encouraged or adopted. A cheerful 
habit can be acquired quite as well as a grumbling one, and 
they who would be healthy in both mind and body must 
seek to obtain dominion over the body and to cultivate that 
self-control without which little can be achieved in life. So 
will they retain health, and secure happiness, and be enabled 
to perform those duties which fall to their lot in the world. 



INDEX 



Abdominal belts, 1 1 1 

Abdominal organs, clothing causing 
pressure on, 109 

Accessory food factors, see Vita- 
mines 

Accidents in industrial occupations, 

151, 152 

Adolescence, feeding during, 305 
Agglutinins in milk, 253, 254 
Air, action on the body, 50, 51, 52 
amount of dust in, 62 
amount required by each in- 
dividual, 55 
bad and unhygienic, how tested, 

56 

changes in, 61, 67 
composition and properties of, 49, 

50, 55 

contamination by the breath, 55 
effect of rain on, 64 
expired, composition of, 49, 50, 55 
stagnant, cause of, 56 
water vapour content of, 61 
wool retaining, 92 
Alcohol, absorption of, in the sys- 
tem, 179 
amount in the blood after oral 

administration, 183 
as stimulant, 179 
drug action of, 185 
effect on mental efficiency, 180- 

182 

effect on the system, 178, 179 
fat inhibiting absorption of, 184 
fatigue following, 179, 180 
not a food, 185 
percentage in various drinks, 177, 

178 

tolerance to, 178 
with and without food, effects of, 

180-182, 184 
Alcoholic beverages, 178 

action and effects of, 177 
Ale, alcohol percentage of, 178 
Alimentary canal, 216 
absorption of food in, 224 



Allotments, advantages of, 16 

Amino-acids, 196 

Anti-scorbutic vitamine, 212, 315,. 

330 

Artificial feeding, 293-295, 303-307 
bottles for, 296 
breast-feeding compared with,. 

282, 284 

development of infant during, 2941 
dried milk, 297-299 
modifications of cow's milk, 293 
patent and proprietary foods, 302- 
preparation of mixtures, 296 
summer diarrhoea during, 282 
weight of infant influenced by, 

321, 324 
Astragalus, position and function of,. 

1 20 

Athletes, " second wind " of, 144 
Atmosphere, see Air 

Bacillus acidi lactici, contamination 

of milk by, 251 
Bacillus coli, infection of milk by,, 

252 

Back-yards, insanitary, 36, 37 
Bacon, fat content of, 202, 205 
Bacteria, amount in dust, 63 
and dampness, 41 
conditions favouring the spread 

of, 64, 67, 68 

dust and dirt conveying, 60, 77 
harmful effects of, 60, 68 
in industrial areas, 68 
in milk, see Milk 
milk a favourable medium for 

growth of, 254 
Basal metabolism, 190, 191 
Bath-room, position and structure 

of, 32 
Baths, 84 

action on the skin, 85 
proper use of, 87 
therapeutic value of, 84, 85 
Bedrooms, planning and structure 
of, 24, 28 



I 
341 



342 



INDEX 



Beer, alcohol percentage of, 178 
Beverages, 169 
alcoholic, 177 

fat formation in relation to, 170 
nutritive, 171 
stimulating, 171 
Bile, 223 
Binders for infants, disadvantages 

of, 96, 97 
Blood, amount of alcohol in, after 

oral administration, 183 
Blood-pressure, during sleep, 167 

exercise increasing, 135 
Blouses for children, 103, 104 
IBody, action of air on, 50, 51, 52 
action of baths on, 85 
and head, proportionate size of, 

329 

cleansing of, 78, 82 
condition during sleep, 164, 167 
cooling of, 53, 54, 56-58 

materials affording protection 

from, 92 
daily amount of water required 

by, 169, 170 
effect of mind on, 139 
growth of, at different ages, 322, 

. 327, 329 
vitamines necessary for, 210, 

330 

nitrogen intake of, 188 
nitrogen output of, 197 
protection against cold, 94 
rest for, importance and value of, 

158, 159 
tone of, stimulation by wind and 

sun, 52 

ventilation of, by air, 54 
Body heat, amount given off by 

various food-stuffs, 188 
food as source of supply of, 187 
loss of, on what dependent, 189 
production and evaporation of, 

50, 5i. 52, 53, 56-58 
Body metabolism, 49, 50 

products of, 8 1 
Body temperature, during sleep, 168 

mechanism of variations in, 81 
Boiling, effect on nutritive value of 

food, 331 

Bones, development of, 333 
enlargement of, 308 
softening of, 308 
Boots and shoes, for children, 105, 

126 
ill-fitting, disabilities of feet due 

to, 121, 124, 126 
kind suitable, 131 
Bovine tubercle bacillus, 236, 237 



Bow-leg, 310 
Bowel, action of, 224 

evacuations of, frequency of, 225 

overloaded, disorders due to, 307 

water aiding action of, 170 
Boys, clothing for, 102 

feeding of, 306 

footgear for, 104 

height of, at different ages, 327, 

328 

Brandy, alcohol percentage of, 178 
Bread, carbohydrate value of, 203, 
206 

daily amount required by work- 
ing man, 199 

protein content of, 198, 206 
Breast-feeding, 231, 232, 279, 282 

advantages over artificial feeding, 
282, 284 

aids to, 287 

amount of milk yielded during, 
285, 286 

capacity of the mother for, 282, 
284 

commencement of, 284 

compulsory rest for mother dur- 
ing period of, 162 

development of infant during, 
334-336 

diet of mother during, 289 

early difficulties in, 284, 285, 290 

gastric digestion during, 288 

importance of, 282 

intervals of, 288 

length of period of, 303 

mental condition of mother dur- 
ing, 290 

position of infant during, 286, 287 

quantity of milk consumed dur- 
ing, 288, 292 

regularity in, 288, 290 

summer diarrhoea less frequent 
than during artificial feeding, 
282 

vomiting after, 287 

weight of infant during, 292, 321, 

324 

wet-nurses and, 284 
Breasts, condition immediately 

after birth, 320 
stimulation of flow from, 284, 

285, 290 

Breath, contamination of air by, 55 
Breathing, clothing interfering 

with, 109 

deep and rapid, cause of, 50, 136 
Bronchitis, factors favouring, 67 
Bunions, boots and shoes causing, 
124 



INDEX 



343 



Burgundy, alcohol percentage of, 

178 
Butter, fat content of, 201, 202, 206 

i 
Caffein, accelerating fatigue, 175, 

176 

as a stimulant, 175 
effects of, on the system, 175 
percentage in tea and coffee, 172, 

*73. J 74 
Calcium, amount in cow's and 

human milk, 232, 279, 280 
Calcium caseinogenate, 229 
Calories, value of food -stuffs ex- 
pressed in terms of, 188, 189, 
205 
Carbohydrate, 202 

energy value of, 188, 203 
necessary constituent of food, 188 
percentage in various food-stuffs, 

203, 205-207 
Carbon dioxide, amount in air, 49, 

50, 55 

essential nature of, 50 
Casein, 229 
Caseinogen, in cow's and human 

milk, 228, 229, 280 
Central heating, 46 
Cesspools, 22 
Champagne, alcohol percentage of, 

178 
Cheese, fat content of, 201, 202, 206 

protein content of, 198, 206 
Chest deformity, 310 
Chicory, 175 
Children, amount of sleep necessary 

for, 1 66 
caloric value of food required 

daily by, 191, 193, 306 
chest deformity of, 310 
clothing of, 101-104 

see also Clothing 
exercise for, 137, 138 
fatigue of, 137 

tests of, 149, 150, 156 
feeding of, 303 

during period of growth, 305 
footgear for, 104, 126 
growth of, feeding in relation to, 

330 

factors on which dependent, 320 
head and body of, proportionate 

size of, 329 
headgear of, 105 
height of, at different ages, 327, 

328 

mental attitude of, 337 
mental development of, factors 

influencing, 160 



Children, muscular system of, de- 
velopment of, 333-335 

over-feeding of, 306 

postures of, correct and faulty, 
335, 336 

rickety, 308-314 

stockings for, 104 

systematic inspection of, 305 

tuberculosis of, milk as cause of, 

237 

see also Infants 
Chills, cause and mechanism of 

production of, 52-54, 91 
clothing suitable for prevention 

of, 93 
following continued mental 

activity, 145 

Chimneys, sweeping of, 44 
Chocolate, nutritive value of, 171 
Cholera belt, 107 
Cider, alcohol percentage of, 178 
Circulatory system, activity of, 158 
during sleep, 167 
effect of mental activity on, 145 
effect of muscular exercise on, 

135, 136 

effect of sea-bathing on, 88 

stimulation by baths, 86 
Claret, alcohol percentage of, 178 

effects of, 184 
Cleanliness, 72, 73 

beneficial effects of, 72 

general, 73 

personal, 78 

Closets, structure and arrangement 
of, 20, 21, 22, 33 

ventilation of, 38 

waste-water type of, 38 
Clothing, 90 

absorption of sweat by, 91 

absorptive power of various 
kinds of, 92 

adult, 106 

during pregnancy, in 

cleansing and changing of, 88 

extravagant, 113 

fashions in, 106, 108, 113, 114 

for boys, 102 

for girls, 102-104 

for older children, 101-104 

for women, 106, 107 

function of, 51, 54 

health in relation to, 90 

infants', 96-101 

materials used for, 91 

notes on, for health visitors, 116 

objects of, 90 

personality in, 112, 113, 114 

psychological aspect of, 112, 114 



344 



INDEX 



Clothing, suitability of, 95 

texture of, 91 

unsuitable kinds of, 108, 113 
disabilities due to, 108, 109 

ventilation of, 90, 92 

wet, 94 
Coal, 43, 44 

Cocoa, nutritive value of, 171, 172 
Cod-liver oil, beneficial in rickets, 

312 
Coffee, as a beverage, 172 

preparation of, 174 
Coke, 43 
Cold, harmful effects of, 67, 68 

protection of body from, 94 

sensation of, on what dependent, 

179 
Cold air, action on the body, 51, 52, 

53 
Cold and heat, phenomenon of, 50- 

52 

Cold baths, 86, 87 
Collars, high and low, 109 
Colostrum, 228 
Condensed milk, 276 

unsuitable for infants, 301, 302 
Constipation, causes of, 225 

drugs not recommended for, 226 

prevention of, 225, 226 

water intake relieving, 170 
Cooking, by gas, 45, 46 

effect on vitamines, 331, 332 

observations on, 331, 332 

of food-stuffs, effect on nutritive 

value of, 331, 332 
Coppers, 44 
Corns, 130 
Corsets, for girls, 104 

maternity, in 

wearing of, 108 
Cotton, absorptive power of, 92 

use as clothing, 93 
Cows, diseases of, in relation to 
milk, 255 

mastitis of, 235, 239 

tuberculosis of, 235 

tuberculin test, 238 
Cream, fat content of, 201 

Dairy foods, various, percentage 

composition of, 206 
Dampness, avoidance of, 14 

effect on food, 41 
Deformity, postural, 335 
Dentition, delayed, 309, 310 
Diarrhoea, of new-born infant, 282 
Diet, see Food ; Food-stuffs 
Digestion, process of, 217, 220 

waste products of, 224 



Digestive system, overtaxing of. 
306, 307 

Dirt, see Dust 

Distempering of house walls, 30 

Dreams, 163, 164 
causes of, 164 

Dress, see Clothing 

Dried milk, 276 
advantages of, 300 
effects of, 300 
preparation of, 297 
scurvy in relation to, 317 
varieties and use of, 297-299 

Dust and dirt, amount in the air, 

62 

amount of bacteria in, 63 
amount deposited over a given 

area, 66 
harmful effects of, 60, 63, 64, 68, 

measurement of, 61 

pulmonary tuberculosis due to, 

70 

removal of, 63 
Dust-bins, 15, 1 8 

Earth-closets, 21, 22, 33 

Eating, general observations on, 

221, 222 

injurious habits of, 221 
Eggs, accessory food factors in, 214 
fat percentage of, 200, 202, 206 
protein content of, 198, 206 
Electricity, heating by, 45, 46 
Energy, muscular, mechanism of, 

133 

Energy value, of food, 188, 190 
Ergograph, muscular condition 

measured by, 146, 147 
Ethylic alcohol, 177 
Excreta, breeding-ground for flies, 

34 

disposal of, 19, 21-23, 33. 75 
receptacles for, 21, 22, 33 
Exercise, 132 

action of the muscles during, 133- 

135 

deep breathing due to, 50 
effect on body heat, 52 
effect on body processes, 134-136 
effect on the circulation, 135, 136 
effect on respiration, 136 
excessive, in children, effects of, 

137, 138 

expenditure of body energy dur- 
ing, 190 

fatigue due to lack of, 145 
fatigue following, 144, 145 
following sedentary work, 145 



INDEX 



345 



Exercise, games affording, 139, 140 
health in relation to, 132, 137 
necessary for maintenance of 

health, 137 
physical culture, 139 
stiffness following, cause of, 134 
violent and sudden, effects of, 136 
walking as a form of, 1 39 

Fashions in dress, 113 
Fat, accessory food factors in, 214 
amount in milk, 228, 230 
amount in various articles of 
diet, 200, 201, 202, 205-207 
beverages not conducive to for- 
mation of, 170 
body heat given off by, 188 
caloric value of, 201, 202 
daily amount required in food, 

201, 202 

energy value of, 188, 201, 202 
inhibitory effect on alcohol ab- 
sorption, 184 

necessary constituent of food, 188 
secretion of, 79, 80 
Fatigue, 144 

caffein inducing, 175, 176 

definition of, 148 

factors influencing, 144, 155 

following alcohol, 179, 180 

following sleeplessness, 168 

in school children, tests, 149, 150 

industrial, investigations into, 

150 
in industrial workers, due to 

overtime, 154 
measurement of, 146, 150 
mental and physical, causes of, 

144. 145, I4 8 
nervous system the primary seat 

of, 146 

of special senses, tests of, 154 
of neuro-muscular apparatus, 134 
prevention of, 156, 157 
production of, factors on which 

dependent, 155 
tea accelerating, 176 
Feeding, after age of infancy, 303 
during adolescence, 305 
during period of growth, 305 
growth in relation to, 330 
of children, over-feeding, 306 
of school children, 305 
vitamines in relation to, 330 
see also Artificial feeding ; Breast- 
feeding ; Food 
Feeding bottles, 296 
Feet, action of, during walking, 120, 
125 



Feet, anatomy and structure of, 

118-121 
bones and joints of, 118-120, 122, 

123 
care and protection of, 104, no, 

117, 127 

cleanliness of, 84 
cold, sleeplessness due to, 165 
constriction of, avoidance of, 

disabilities of, ill-fitting boots and 
shoes causing, 121, 124, 126 
health in relation to, 127 
hot and moist, treatment of, 128, 

129 

muscles of, 120 
transverse arch of, 120, 126 
treatment of , 129, 130 
ventilation of, 128 
Ferments, pancreatic, in new-born 

infant, 278 
Fire-grates, 43-45 
Fires, 43-45 
Fish, fat content of, 201, 206 

percentage composition of various 

kinds of, 206 

Flannel, absorptive power of, 92 
Flannelette, absorptive power of, 92 

use as clothing, 94 
Flat-foot, causes and frequency of, 

125, 126 

Fleas, disease due to, 74 
Flies, breeding of, prevention of, 19 
breeding-places of, 34, 35 
contamination carried by, 34, 35 
diseases due to, 74 
food contamination by, preven- 
tion of, 40 

incubation period of, 34, 35 
Floor-boards, 29, 30 
Floors, tiled, 28, 29 
Flues, care of, 44 
Fluid, daily amount required by the 

body, 169 

Fog, effect on health, 67 
formation of, 60, 61 
harmful effects of, 67, 68 
Fontanelles, delayed closing of, 309 
Food, absorption of, 223 
amount consumed, 222 
amount required daily by average 

male, 188, 204 

anti-scorbutic factor in, 315, 330 
as cause of rickets, 312 
body heat supplied by, 187 
boiling of, effect on nutritive 

value of, 331 

caloric value required daily at 
different ages, 191, 193 



346 



INDEX 



Food, caloric value required daily 
in different occupations, 192 
care of, 41, 42 
choice of, 195 
cold and hot, 222 
contamination by flies, 34, 35, 40 
diseases due to absence of vita- 
mines in, 212 

effects of alcohol with and with- 
out, 180-182, 184 
effect of dampness on, 41 
energy value of, 188, 190 
fat percentage in various articles 

of, 200-202, 205-207 
heating of, effect on nutritive 

value of, 331 
necessary constituents of, for 

maintenance of health, 188 
of mother, during breast-feeding, 

289 
passage of, into the stomach, 216, 

220 
proper and improper use of, 221, 

222 
regular intervals for consumption 

of, 221 

salt content of, 203 
standard values of, 188, 189, 205 
storage of, provision for, 40-43 
various kinds of, percentage com- 
position of, 205-207 
vegetarian, caloric value of, 200, 

206 

vitamines in, 214, 215, 312, 315 
Food factors, accessory, see Vita- 
mines 

Foods, patent or proprietary, 302 
Footwear, fashions in, 121 
Forehead, square, of rickety child- 
ren, 309 
Fowls, 1 8 

Fresh air, importance of, 48, 58 
Frocks for children, 103 
Fruits, accessory food factors in, 215 
carbohydrate value of, 203, 207 
percentage composition of, 207 
Fuel, 43-45 

Galactose, 230 

Games, kind unsuitable for women, 

141 
physical exercise afforded by, 139, 

140 
Gardens, amenities of, 16, 18 

disposal of waste material in, 16, 

23 

Garments, see Clothing 
Garters, constriction due to, 109, 

no 



Garters, during pregnancy, 112 

Gas, cooking by, 44-46 

Gas fires, 45 

Gastric digestion, in new-born 

infant, 278, 288 
Gastric ferments, 220, 278 
Gastric secretion, function of, 220 
Geysers, 46 

Gin, alcohol percentage of, 177 
Girls, boots and shoes for, 126 

clothing for, 102-104 

feeding of, 306 

height of, at different ages, 327, 

328 

Glaxo, 299 
Glucose, 230 
Glycogen, 203 

function of, 133, 134 
Great toe, action and function of, 
121, 125 

displacement of, cause of, 124 
Growth of body, at different ages, 
322, 327, 329 

factors on which dependent, 320 

feeding in relation to, 330 

Hair, washing of, frequency of, 83 
Hammer toe, ill-fitting boots and 

shoes causing, 124 
Harrison's sulcus, cause of, 310 
Hats and caps for children, 105 
Head, and body, proportionate size 

of, 329 

covering for, 105 

Health, clothing in relation to, 90 
dampness in relation to, 14 
effect of weather conditions on, 

67, 68 

exercise necessary for mainte- 
nance of, 132, 137 
general, fresh air in relation to, 

48, 52 

rest and sleep necessary for, 158 
Health visitors, notes on clothing, 

116 

Heart, action of alcohol on, 179 
activity of, 158 
effect of baths on action of, 86 
effect of muscular activity on, 135, 

136 

Heat, body, production and evapo- 
ration of, 50, 51, 52 
Heat and cold, phenomenon of, 50- 

Heating, methods of, 43-46 

of houses, 43, 45 
Heel, action of, during walking,. 125 

high, disadvantages of, 121, 125, 
126 



INDEX 



347 



Heel, low, 126 

structure of, 120 
Height, at different ages, 327 
Hobbies, mental effects of, 163 
Hock, alcohol percentage of, 178 
Hot baths, effect on the body, 86 
House-planning, diagrams, 25-29 
Houses, accommodation necessary 

in, 24 

arrangement of, 8 
baths within, 84 

building of, local sanitary autho- 
rity and, 6 
care of milk in, 262 
cleanliness within, 71, 73 
dampness or dryness of, 14 
dust and dirt within, causes of, 

78 

floors of, 29, 30 
food-storage in, 40 
gardens necessary for, 16 
general amenities of, 8-23 
heating of, 43, 45 
individual, extent of ground 

necessary for, 15 
insanitary conditions of, 4, 5 
lighting of, 43, 46 
management of, 1-4 
old, insanitary nature of, 34-38 
overcrowding of, 13 
papering and distempering in, 30 
pasteurisation of milk in, 273-276 
planning and structure of, 8-13, 

24-29 

privy or closet of, 20, 21, 22, 33 
sanitary arrangements within, 32, 

38 

shortage of, 5 
sites for, 14 
ventilation of, 28 
water-supply of, 32, 77 
contamination of, 20 
Housewife, duties and training of, 

1-4 
rest and exercise necessary for, 

162 

Housework, importance of, 3, 4 
Hunger, feeling of, 222, 223 
Hygiene, general, beneficial effects 
of, 73 

Immune substances, in human 

milk, 279 
Indigestion, causes of, 221 

tea as a cause of, 174 
Industrial areas, bacteria of, 68 
respiratory disorders and infant 

mortality in, 66-68 
Industrial diseases, 70 



Industrial occupations, accidents in, 

151, 152 
factors influencing output of 

work in, 153 
overtime in, physiologically and 

economically extravagant, 

154, 155 

Industrial workers, caloric value of 
food required daily by, 192 
daily protein dietary for, 199 
daily amount of carbohydrates 

necessary for, 203 
" Monday feeling " of, 154 
Infant mortality, from bovine 

tuberculosis, 237 
percentage in various towns, 68, 

70 

vitiated atmosphere a cause of, 66 
Infantile scurvy, see Scurvy 
Infants, absorption of proteins by, 

279 
amount of sleep necessary for, 

1 66 

binders for, disadvantages of, 96 
breast feeding of, see Breast-feed- 
ing 

clothing for, 96-101 
diseases of, due to decayed teeth 

of nursing mother, '219 
establishment of digestion in, 279 
fat not a criterion of strength in, 

328 

feeding of, 277, 303 
factors in, 281 
period of fluid diet, 277 
see also Breast-feeding ; Arti- 
ficial feeding 
ferments in alimentary tract of, 

278 

footgear for, 104 
gastric digestion of, 278 
growth and development of, 294 
breast-feeding influencing, 321, 

324 
factors on which dependent, 

320 
feeding in relation to, 322, 324, 

33 

head and body of, proportionate 
size of, 329 

headgear for, 105 

kind of food suitable during first 
and second years, 304, 305 

lactic acid for, erroneous con- 
ception of, 256 

length of, at different periods, 327 

mechanism of sucking by, 285 

milk for, condition in which 
desirable, 271 



348 INDEX 



Infants, milk for, condition in which 

undesirable, 272, 273 
preparation of, 274 
see also Breast-feeding ; Arti- 
ficial feeding 
muscular system, development of, 

333-335 
napkins for, 98 
nitrogen requirement of, 294 
nutrition. of, factors influencing, 

280 

obese, 328 

pancreatic juice of, 278 
postures of, correct and faulty, 

335 

ptyalin in saliva at birth, 278 

rickety, 308-314 

scurvy of, see Scurvy 

shoes for, 105 

socks for, 104 

standard milk for, 261 

summer diarrhoea of, 282 

teeth of, age for cutting of, 309 

teething of, 100 

thyroid deficiency in, 328 

transference of immunity from 

mother to, 279 
underclothing of, 103 
weaning of, 303 
weight of, at various periods, 322, 

323. 328 

during breast-feeding, 292 
early loss in, 320 
rate of increase in, 322 
too rapid increase in, 328 
wind and vomiting of, 287 
Insects, diseases due to, 74 
Intestinal stasis, 225 

due to over-eating, 307 
Intestines, functions of, 224 
length of, 223 

passage of food through, 223 
position and course of, 224 
Iron, amount in cow's and human 

milk, 279, 280 
constituent of milk, 232 
importance of, to nutrition of 
infant, 280 

Jerseys for children, 102, 103 
Just-Hatmaker dried milk, 299 

Kata-thermometer, use of, 53, 56 
Kidneys, relation of sweat glands to, 

81 
water aiding excretion of waste 

products of, 170 
Kitchen-ranges, 44, 45 
Kitchen-water, disposal of, 23 



Kitchens, planning and structure 

of, 24 
Knickers, during pregnancy, 112 

for women, 107 

material for, 103 

Lact-albumin, constituent of milk, 

229 

Lactase, 230, 278 

Lactation, compulsory rest for 

mother during period of, 162 

condition of milk in early days of, 

228 

see also Breast-feeding 
Lactic acid bacilli, action on milk, 

251, 252 

factors favouring growth of, 252 
souring of milk due to, 255 
Lactic acid, function of, 134 
production of, 251, 252 
supposed value of, for infants, 256 
Lacto-globulin, constituent of milk, 

229, 279 

Lactose, 229, 278 
action of, 230 
addition to milk, 293 
conversion into lactic acid, 251 
production of, 230 
Larder, structure and planning of, 

40 

Larynx, 220 

Laziness, harmful effect of, 159 
Legs, rickety curvature of, 310 
Lighting of houses, 43, 46 
Lime-juice, in prevention of scurvy, 

212, 213 
Linen, absorptive power of, 92 

use as clothing, 94 
Liquors, alcoholic, 177, 178 
Living-rooms, aspect of, in newly- 
built houses, 8 
damp, 14 

planning and structure of, 24-29 
stuffiness of, to what due, 55, 56 
sunshine necessary for, 8 
ventilation of, 55-58 
Local Sanitary Authority, and 

house-building, 6 
collection of rubbish by, 16, 76 
Lymphatic glands, infection through 
decayed teeth, 220 

Mammary glands, condition im- 
mediately after birth, 320 
stimulation of secretion from, 
284, 285, 290 

Margarine, fat content of, 201; 202, 
206 



INDEX 



349 



Mastication, 216, 217 , 

object of, 217 

Maternity clothing, in, 112 
Meals, intervals between, 221 
Meat, daily amount required by 

working man, 199 
fat percentage of, 200, 202, 205 
percentage composition of vari- 
ous kinds of, 205 
protein content of, 198, 205 
vitamines in various kinds of, 214 
Medical Milk Commission, investi- 
gations by, 257 
Menstruation, body changes during, 

142 

muscular activity during, 141-143 
Mental activity, capacity for, limit j 

of, 163 

effect on circulatory system, 145 j 
physical reaction following, 145 
Mental development, factors in- 
fluencing, 160 
Mental efficiency, effect of alcohol | 

on, 180-182 
Mental enjoyment, effect on the | 

body, 139 
Mental excitement, obscuring j 

fatigue, 144 
Mental fatigue, factors influencing, i 

155 

measurement of, 148 
Mental inertia, physical effects of, j 

161, 163 

prevalence of, 160 
Mental weariness, causing fatigue, 

144 

Metabolism, basal, 190, 191 
disturbances of, inhibiting growth, 

330 

effect of protein on, 197 

errors of, rickets due to, 308 
Metabolites, muscular action pro- 
ducing, 133, 134 
Middens, 20, 33, 36 

insanitary nature of, 34 

pollution by, 20 
Milk, 171 

accessory food factors in, 214, 230, 
264 

agglutinins in, 253, 254 

anti-scorbutic factor in, 265, 316, 

bacteria of, destruction of, 263, 264 
bacterial infection of, 234, 242 
factors influencing, 256 
prevention or reduction of, 258 
organisms associated with, 251, 

252 
variety of bacteria, 251 



Milk, bacterial products of, in- 
jurious to infant, 257 
boiled, 263 

bottling of, 261, 274. 275 
calcium content of, 232 
care and preparation of, 262, 273- 

276 

caseinogen in, 280 
chemical composition of, 171, 227 
clotting in infant's stomach, 297 
condensed, unsuitable for in- 
fants, 301, 302 
condensing of, 276 
contamination of, causes of, 235 
sources of, 240, 246, 249, 250 
cooling of, 246, 248 

object of, 256 
curdling of, 255 
dilution of, 293 
dried, see Dried milk 
fat content of, 200, 206, 228, 230, 

231 

standardized, 260 
favourable medium for growth of 

bacteria, 254 
ferments of, 230 
filtering of, 246 
for infants, condition in which 

desirable, 271 
condition, in which undesirable, 

272, 273 

preparation of, 274 
grading of, 260, 261 
heated, scurvy in relation to, 

316, 318 
heating of, 262 

changes during, 264 
misconceptions concerning, 264 
processes in, 263 
human, calcium content of, 279, 

280 

caseinogen in, 280 
composition compared with 

that of cow's milk, 279-281 
digestibility compared with 

that of cow's milk, 288, 297 
immune substances in, 279 
iron content of, 232, 279, 280 
percentage composition of, 228 
question of vitamines in, 281 
salts in, 279, 280 
secretion of, 284, 285 
yield by wet-nurse, 285, 286 
humanising of, 293 
modifications of, 293 
pasteurisation of, 259 
changes during, 264 
in the home, 273-276 
technique of, 266-269 



350 



INDEX 



Milk, pasteurised, 316 
definition of, 263 
re-infection of, 271 
scurvy in relation to, 316, 318 
percentage composition of, 228 
preparation of mixtures, 296 
protective substances in, 256 
protein content of, 228, 229, 281 

artificial reduction of, 293 
qualities at different stages of 

milking, 231 
quality better in summer than in 

winter, 318 
re-heated, 271 

a source of scurvy, 318 
unfit for infants, 272 
salt content of, 232 
scurvy in relation to, 316, 317 
secretion of, 226 
sore throat due to, 272 
sour, bacteria of, 255 

cause of, 255, 256 
stale, changes in, 271 
standardized, 257, 258, 260, 261 
sterilized, definition of, 263 
tubercle bacilli in, 236 

prevention of, 238, 239 
" tuberculin tested," 239 
variation in composition of, 228 
vitamine of, 214, 230 

not affected by pasteurisation, 

264 

water content of, 232 
Milk-churns, bacterial infection of, 

249 

Milk -coolers, 246, 248 
Milk-pails, protected forms of, 241 
Milk-supply, epidemics traced to 

source of, 241 

Milking, cleanliness during, 241 
contamination of milk during, 

240-242 
hints on, 241 

Milking machines, 243-245 
cleansing of, 245 
contamination of milk by, 243, 

244 
Mind, attitudes of, in children, 337 

effect on body, 1 39 
Mists, formation of, 61 
Morning air, revivifying effects of, 

1 66 

Mountain air, health-giving pro- 
perties of, 50 
Mouth, bacterial infection of, 219, 

220 

hygiene of, 218 
Muscle groups, action of, 133 
co-ordination of, 140 



Muscles, blood-supply to, 135 

energy reserve of, 133 
Muscular activity, capacity for, 

limit of, 163 
effect of alcohol on capacity for,. 

185 

effect on the heart, 135, 136 
expenditure of body energy dur- 
ing, 190 

measurement of, 146 
of children, 137 
prolonged, output not necessarily 

increased by, 153 
stiffness following, cause of, 134 
see also Exercise 
Muscular contractions, 133 
Muscular fatigue, effects of, 146 

measurement of , 146, 150 
Muscular movements, cause and 

mechanism of, 133, 136 
health in relation to, 137 
nervous impulses governing, 133 
Muscular system, development of > 
333-335 

Nails, cleanliness of, 83 

Napkins, 98 

Neck, constriction of, by clothing, 

109 

Neckbands, 114 

Nerves, relation to muscular move- 
ments, 133 
Nervous system, central, action of 

tea and caffein on, 176 
effects of alcohol on, 179 
primary seat of fatigue, 146 
relation to sweat glands, 81 
Neuro-muscular apparatus, fatigue 

of, 134 

Nitrogen, amount in air, 49, 50 
body intake of, 188 
body output of, 197 
supply of, for the body, 196 

Nursing mothers, milk for, 230 

Oatmeal, percentage composition 

of, 206 
Obesity, consumption of fluids in 

relation to, 170 
in infants, 328 
Occupational diseases, 70 
Odours, types of clothing retaining, 

95 

(Esophagus, 220 
Offal, disposal of, 19, 76 
Oils, accessory food factors in, 214 
Out-door life, effect on general 

health, 48, 49, 52 



INDEX 



Out-houses, position and structure 
of, ii 

Over-eating, 221, 222, 306 
disorders due to, 189, 307 

Overtime labour, physiologically 
and economically extrava- 
gant, 154 

Oxygen, amount in air, 49, 50 

Ozone, 50 

Pail-closets, 21, 22, 33 
Pancreatic juice, 223 

of new-born infants, 278 
Pasteurisation of milk, 259, 264 

technique of, 266-269 
Patent foods, 302 
Petticoats, during pregnancy, 112 

for children, 103 

for women, 107 
Pharynx, 220 

Phthisis, see Pulmonary tubercu- 
losis 

Physical culture, 139 
Physical exercise, see Exercise 
Physical fatigue, see Fatigue 
Pigs, 1 8 
Plants, effect of smoke and dust on, 

64 
Port wine, alcohol percentage of, 

178 

Postures, correct and faulty, during 
walking and sitting, 335-338 
Potatoes, food value of, 203, 207 
Pregnancy, clothing during, 1 1 1 
Privy, breeding-ground for flies, 34 

pollution of water-supply by, 20 
Proprietary foods, 302 
Protein, absorption by new-born 
infant, 279 

amount in food required daily, 
198, 204 

amount in milk, 228, 229 

composition of, 196 

energy value of, 188, 198 

food-stuffs containing, 195, 205- 
207 

in cows' and human milk com- 
pared, 229, 280, 281 

metabolism stimulated by, 197 

necessary constituent of food, 188, 

195 

specific dynamic action of, 197 
specimen dietary containing 
minimum amount necessary, 
199 
Protein diet, characteristics and 

results of, 197, 198 
Psychological aspect of dress, 112 
Ptyalin, 217 



Puberty, tone of body at, 141 
Pulmonary tuberculosis, bovine 

bacillus as a cause of, 237 
mortality from, in various occu- 
pations, 70, 71 
Pulse-rate, effect of baths on, 85, 86 

Rain, cause of, 61 

effect on air, 64 
Rain-water, advantages of, 14 
Refuse, see Rubbish 
Respiration, effect of exercise on, 

136 
Respiratory disorders, in industrial 

areas, 67, 68 

Respiratory system, activity of, 158 
Rest, abuse of, 159, 161 

amount required daily, 161, 165 

cardiac, 158 

during period of lactation, 162 

expenditure of body energy 
during, 190 

importance and value of, 158 

time most suitable for, 162 

work in relation to, 159 
Ribs, " beading " of, 308 
Rice, percentage composition of, 

206 
Rickets, 308 

cause of, 312 

characteristics and features of, 
308 

cod-liver oil during, 312 

effects of, 310 

experimental production of, 312 

teeth during, 309, 310 

vitamines in relation to, 211 
Rickety rosary, 308, 309 
Roads, general cleanliness of, 77 
Rooms, see Living-rooms 
Rubber garments, poor ventilation 

afforded by, 94 
Rubbish, domestic, 76 

collection and disposal of, 
16-18, 23, 75 

harmful effects of, 76 

insanitary nature of, 17 
Rum, alcohol percentage of, 177 

Saliva, function of, 217 

of new-born infants, 278 
Salivary glands, 216 
Salts, constituents of milk, 232 

in food-stuffs, 203 

in human milk, 279, 280 

necessary constituents of feed, 
188 

value of, 204 



352 



INDEX 



Sanitary bins, use of, 15, 18 
School children, fatigue in, 150 
feeding of, 305 
systematic inspection of, 305 
School work, fatigue following, 150, 

156 
Scullery, planning and structure of, 

30 
Scurvy, experimental production of, 

3i6, 317 
infantile, 315 

age of development of, 315 
cause of, 315 
prevention of, 315 
lime-juice in prevention of, 212, 

213 

milk as cause of, 316, 317 
pasteurised milk in relation to, 

316, 318 

prevention of, 330 
vitamine theory of, 212, 213 
Sea air, health-giving properties of, 

50 

Sea-bathing, beneficial effects of, 87 

Sebaceous glands, action and func- 
tions of, 79, 80 

Sedentary work, physical exercise 
following, 145 

Sewage, contamination by, 20 
disposal of, 19, 21, 22, 33, 75 

Sherry, alcohol percentage, of, 178 

Shoes, see Boots and shoes 

Short skirts, 108 

Silk, absorptive power of, 92, 94 
use as clothing, 94 

Silk stockings, no 

Sink-pipes, 31, 32 

Sinks, care and use of, 31, 32 

Sitting, correct and faulty postures 

in, 337> 33.8 

Skin, action of air on, 50, 51, 52 
action of baths on, 85 
cleansing of, 82 

health influenced by, 78, 82 
composition and structure of, 80 
elimination of waste products by, 

81 

evaporation from, 90, 91 
functions of, 79, 82 
glands of, and their functions, 79, 

81 
material suitable for wearing 

next to, 93, 107 

water vapour given off by, 90, 92 
Skirts, short and long, 108 
Skull, delayed closure of fontanelles 

of, 309 

Sleep, amount required daily, 161, 
165, 166 



Sleep, blood-pressure during, 167 
body temperature during, 168 
condition of the body during, 164, 

167 

circulatory system during, 167 
effect on the body, 163, 164, 167 
factors inducing, 162 
importance and value of, 158, 163 
phenomenon of, 163, 164 
physiological, 163 
prolonged, and curtailed, 165 
sudden interruption of, harmful 

effects of, 167 

Sleeplessness, causes of , 164, 165 
harmful effects of, 168 
prevention of, 165 
Smoke, harmful effects of, 60, 64, 67 
Soap and water, skin cleansed by, 

82 

Socks for children, 104 
Sodium citrate, clotting of milk 

prevented by, 281 
Soot, amount deposited in a given 

area, 66 

harmful effects of, 44, 64 
prevention of, 44 
Sore throat, milk causing, 272 
Sour milk, bacteria of, 255 

production of, 256 
Spinal curvature, causes of, 335 
Standard milk, 257, 260, 261 
Starch, conversion into sugar by 

digestive juices, 203 
Starchy foods, hardness of, 217 
Stimulants, 171 

alcoholic, 177-179 
Stockings, constriction due to, 131 
for children, 104 
materials for, no, 128 
Stomach, distension of, 221, 223 
impaired function of, causes of, 

221 

overloading of, 223 
passage of food to, 220 
structure and position of, 220 
Stomach disorders, decayed teeth 

causing, 218 

Stout, alcohol percentage of, 178 
Streptococcus lacticus, mastitis and 
sore throat associated with, 
252 
Stuffiness of living-rooms, to what 

due, 55, 56 
Succus entericus, 223 
Suet pudding, fat content of, 202 
Sugar, carbohydrate content of, 

206 

conversion of starch into, by 
digestive juices, 203 



INDEX 



353 



Sugar, percentage in milk, 229 

storage in the body, 203 
Summer diarrhoea, 64 

of new-born infants, 282 
Sun, effect on the body, 52 
Suspenders, no 
Sweat, absorption by clothing, 91 

production of, 91 

Sweat-glands, action and function 
of, 79, 8 1 

secretion from, 91 
Syphilis, infection of new-born in- 
fant by wet-nurse, 284 

Tannin, effects of, 174 

percentage in tea, 173, 174 
Tea, accelerating fatigue, 176 
as a beverage, 172 
China, and Ceylon, compared, 173 
infusions of, 173 
preparation of, 174, 175 
Teats, 296 

Teeth, age for appearance of, 309 
care of, 218 
decayed, disorders due to, 218, 

220 
in nursing mother, injurious to 

infant, 219 

delayed cutting of, in rickets, 309 
diseases affecting, 218 
effect of rickets on, 310 
permanent, time of appearance, 

309 

temporary, time of cutting, 309 
Teething, saliva due to, 100 
Temperature, see Body heat 
Thein, 172 
Thyroid secretion, deficiency in 

infants, 328 

Tibialis posticus, position and func- 
tion of, 120 
Tight-lacing, 108, 109 
Tiled floors, 28, 29 
Toes, action, during walking, 120, 

121, 125 

displacement of, due to ill- 
fitting boots and shoes, 124 
Toothache, 218 

Towns, infant mortality and re- 
spiratory disorders in, 66-70 
Treacle, carbohydrate content of, 

206 

Trumilk, 299 
Tryptophane, necessary constituent 

of food, 196 
Tubercle bacillus, dust conveying, 

64 

in milk, 236 
Tuberculin-tested milk, 239 

23 



Tuberculosis, alimentary, bovine 
tubercle bacillus chief cause 
of, 238 
in children, milk frequent 

cause of, 237 
milk as conveyer of, 235 
see also Pulmonary tuberculosis 

Under-garments for children, 101, 

103 
for women, 107 

Varicose veins, garters and bands 

causing, no 
Vegetables, accessory food factors 

in, 215 

caloric value of, 200, 206 
percentage composition of, 206, 

207 
Ventilation, inadequate, ill effects 

of, 56, 57, 7 
of closets, 38 
of clothing, 90, 92 
of feet, 128 
of houses, 28 
of larders, 40 
of rooms, 56, 58 
Vermin, diseases due to, 74 
Vitamines, 209, 312, 315, 330, 332 
absence of, rickets in relation to, 

312 

anti-scorbutic, 315, 330 
characteristics of, 209-211 
diseases due to absence of, 212 
feeding in relation to, 330 
growth of body in relation to, 330 
heating of food-stuffs in relation 

to, 331 

in human milk, 281 
in various common food-stuffs, 

214, 215 

rickets in relation to, 211 
vital importance of, in diet, 313 
Vomiting, after breast-feeding, 287 

Waist, constriction of, 108, 109 
Waking, sudden, harmful effects of, 

167 

Walking, as form of exercise, 1 39 
beneficial effects of, 139 
correct posture during, 335 
painful, due to boots and shoes, 

124 

Wall-paper, 30 
Walls, papering and distempering 

of, 30 
Warmth, mechanism of production 

of, 52 

sensation of, on what dependent, 
179 



354 



INDEX 



Washing, frequency of, 82, 83 
Waste, see Rubbish 
Waste-pipes, care of, 31 
Water, absorption of, in the body, 

170 

amount in milk, 232 
as a beverage, 169 
daily amount required by the 

body, 169 

effects of, after oral administra- 
tion, 170 

fat formation not due to con- 
sumption of, 170 
waste, disposal of, 23, 31, 76 
Water-closets, 33, 38 
Water-supply, 77 

contamination by sewage, 20 
general health in relation to, 77 
hot and cold, 32 

Water vapour, absorption by cloth- 
ing, 91 

amount in the air, 61 
Weaning, 303 
Weariness, see Fatigue 
Weather, conditions of, effect on 

health, 67, 68 
Weight of infant, artificial foods 

influencing, 322, 324 
breast-feeding influencing, 321, 

322, 324 
loss of, during first few weeks of 

life, 320 

rate of increase in, 322 
too rapid increase in, 328 
variations in, 320 
Wells, contamination of, 20 



Wet clothing, 94 

Wet-nurses, 284 

yield of milk by, 285, 286 

Whey, 229 

Whisky, alcohol percentage of, 177, 
178 

Wind, after breast-feeding, 287 
clothing as protection against, 94 
effect on the body, 50, 51, 52, 53 

Wine, alcohol percentage of, 178 

Wool, absorption of water vapour or 

sweat by, 92 
for under-garments, 107 
suitability for clothing, 93 

Wool stockings, no, 128 

Work, and rest, relation between, 

159 

capacity for, factors influencing, 

153. I6 3 

effect of alcohol on capacity for, 

185 

expenditure of body energy dur- 
ing, 190 

fatigue following, 155 
measurement of, 150 

output not necessarily increased 
by long hours, 153 

"overtime" physiologically and 
economically extravagant, 

J 54 

see also Muscular activity 
Working men, see Industrial 
workers 



Yards, insanitary, 36, 37 



OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 

ELEMENTS OF HYGIENE 
AND PUBLIC HEALTH 

By CHARLES PORTER, M.D., M.B., C.M., M.R.C.P. 
(Ed.), Medical Officer of Health, Metropolitan Borough 
of St. Marylebone ; Examiner in Public Health, Uni- 
versity of Edinburgh ; Member of Board of Examiners, 
Royal Sanitary Institute and Sanitary Inspectors' 
Examination Board. 

Crown 8vo (7^x5). Cloth. 98 Illustrations. pp. 
xiv + 412. 1 2/6 net. 

CARE OF HUMAN MACHINERY 

By R. McNAlR WILSON, M.B., Ch.B. (Glasgow), 
Captain, R.A.M.C. (T.), late Assistant to Sir James 
Mackenzie under the Medical Research Committee. 

Crown 8vo (7^ x 4f ). Cloth, pp. 250. 1 0/6 net. 

THE HEALTHY GIRL 

By Mrs. JOSEPH CUNNING, M.B., and Miss A. 
CAMPBELL, A.B. 

Crown Svo (?f x 5 J). Cloth. 21 Illustrations, pp. 201. 
5/- net. 

CHILDREN THEIR CARE AND 

MANAGEMENT 

By E. M. BROCKBANK, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician, Royal 
Infirmary, Manchester. 

Crown Svo (7j x 5). Cloth, pp. 271. 3/6 net. 

INFANT HEALTH 

By J. CAMERON MACMILLAN, C.M.B., Inspector of 
Mid wives and Health Visitor, Oxford. With a Foreword 
by the late Professor Sir William Osier, F.R.S. 
F'cap Svo (6| x 4j). Cloth, pp. 136. 

OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 

The Lancet Building, 1 & 2 Bedford Street, London, W.C.2 




CV2 

0> 

LO 

to 



.8 



fl 

.p 9> 
S 
a o 



-* o 



Q) 



Q) 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 



