MORE RECIPES ^ 
FOR FIFTY 




LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, NEW YORK 




Cornell University Library 
TX 820.S55 



More recipes for fifty, 




a i'yi£4 U03 584 715 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003584715 



MORE RECIPES 
FOR FIFTY 



BY 

FRANCES LOWE SMITH 

AUTHOR OF 
"RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY " 




WHITCOMB & BARKOWS 

BOSTON 1 92 1 



355" 



o 



-L. 



^7 U^ ^»*' ^ 



Copyright 191 8 

By Whitcomb & Barrows 

Reprinted September, 192 1 



Thok&s Todd Co., Printbiis 
14 Beacon Stkest, Bostom, MABSAa^ussTTs 



To that Great Army of Workers Over 
Here and Over There Who Fight to 
Make the World Safe for Democracy _ 



PREFACE 

From the very day of America's awakening to the need 
of conservation, the members of the School of Domestic 
Science have entered heartily and enthusiastically into 
each succeeding plan of the Administration for conserv- 
ing the foods needed by our Allies. In order to do not only 
"our bit," but our utmost, radical changes have been made 
in the School menus, and much time has been given by 
teachers and by students of the Class of 1918 to experi- 
mental cookery with the various substitutes. In preparing 
the recipes, two definite objects have been kept in mind : 
the one to simplify for institutions the problem of provid- 
ing satisfactory meals with less sugar, less fat, and less 
wheat; the other to enable them to do so at minimum 
expense. 

The results of these months of work are embodied in 
"More Recipes for Fifty," and it is hoped that the book 
will be valuable in the years to come, as well as during 
these fateful years of the great World War. 

F. L. S. 



Boston, June, 1918. 



INTRODUCTION 

A recipe, called to judgment, must answer three 
questions : 

Is it practical ? 

Is it economical ? 

Is the result attractive ? 

These questions have to be answered in the affirmative 
when the recipes are planned for small groups. The 
answers must be still more emphatic when cooking is 
done for half a hundred. 

The first book by Miss Smith has proved its rare value 
to the many dietitians and institution managers who have 
used it. The second carries the added merit of adjustment 
to our increased list of staples. 

Before the war, we were in a rut in our kitchens. We 
used wheat, meat, sugar, and fats thoughtlessly and 
monotonously. Now, happily, cooking is lifted out of this 
dull routine. It has become a real adventure. 

On any new trail, however, we need a guide who has 
thoroughly explored the danger points and can guard us 
against them. 

Repeated experiments with what, in the- first days of 
the world struggle, we called "substitutes" have produced 
the recipes in this book. They make a reliable and com- 
plete collection of palatable dishes which are not only 
good in theory, but entirely satisfactory in practice. 

Elizabeth Macdonald. 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Fruits i 

Substitutes 9 

Breads and Rolls 13 

Griddle Cakes, Muffins, Biscuit, etc, . . a8 

Cakes and Cookies 50 

Eggs 71 

Soups and Chowders 75 

Fish 84 

Meats . . 95 

Luncheon Dishes 118 

Vegetables .... • ■ ^35 

Salads and Salad Dressings .... 163 

Sandwiches . 181 

Desserts 190 

Index 215 



FRUITS 

Dried Fruits 

If properly cooked, dried fruits are a delicious and 
convenient form of fruit for winter use. Comparatively 
few people, however, cook dried fruits properly, and the 
result is a strong prejudice against them. At a time when 
the preservation of all food is so essential, and containers 
are so increasingly scarce, dried fruit comes to its own. 

It should be used freely: for breakfast fruit, for 
luncheon and supper desserts, for ices and sherbets, and 
for other dinner desserts. Often a combination of two 
fruits makes a pleasant variety; as dried apples and 
raisins, or prunes and apricots. 

Wash fruit thoroughly in cold water ; drain. Add cold 
water to cover, and let soak from one to three days in a 
cold place ; the drier and harder the fruit, the longer the 
time required for soaking. Bring slowly to the boiling 
point, and without stirring cook in double boiler or in 
fireless cooker two or more hours, or until fruit is per- 
fectly tender, but unbroken. Sprinkle sugar or syrup over 
top of fruit, and cook twenty or thirty minutes longer; 
do not stir. A little salt added to the water before cooking 
is often an improvement; add lemon, spices, or other 
seasoning at same time if used. Com syrup may be used 
in place of part or all of the sugar. Sweet, well-ripened 
fruits require little or no sugar. If the juice is watery 
and flavorless after cooking the fruit, turn it into a sepa- 
rate saucepan, and boil down to desired consistency. 



2 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Cranberry Bananas 

50 bananas 3 cups cranberry juice 

4 cup margarine i cup or more corn syrup 

Left-over cranberry juice may be used, in which case 
no syrup will be needed. If bananas are to be used with 
meat, less sweetening will be required than when served 
as dessert. The margarine may be omitted. Peel bananas, 
place in shallow agate pans; dot over with bits of mar- 
garine, add half the syrup. Bake thirty minutes or until 
done, basting occasionally with remaining syrup. 

Sliced Bananas with Fruit Juice 

Allow one medium-sized banana to each person. Slice 
into sauce dishes ; dip over fruit two or three tablespoons 
cranberry juice which has been sweetened with com syrup. 
Cherry, red raspberry, or red currant juice may be used. 
Or serve half a banana to each person, and with it red 
currants, cut oranges, or strawberries, which have stood 
in sugar an hour or so ; or stewed cranberries or peaches. 

Bananas with Orange Sauce 

50 bananas § cup cornstarch 

3 cups white corn syrup J cup margarine 

I J quarts boiling water 2 cups orange juice 

Bake bananas in hot oven for twenty or thirty minutes, 
or until they swell almost to bursting ; remove from skin. 
Or peel and put in casseroles to bake. Serve with hot or 
cold sauce : Mix cornstarch with a little cold water, and 
add to remainder when it boils. Boil five minutes; add 



FRUITS 3 

margarine, syrup, one teaspoon salt, and boil one minute. 
Add juice and grated rind of orange. Pour over bananas 
before serving. 

Bananas with Lemon Sauce 

3 cups corn syrup ^ cup cornstarch 

i^ teaspoons salt i J quarts boiling water 

f cup lemon juice 4 dozen bananas 

Mix salt and cornstarch with a cup cold water. Bring 
remaining water to boil, add to cornstarch, stirring con- 
stantly; add corn syrup and boil five minutes, then add 
lemon juice and grated rind. Peel bananas ; cut in halves 
lengthwise, then each half crosswise. Put in baking dishes, 
add sauce, and bake thirty minutes in moderate oven. 

Bananas with Sultana Sauce 

25 to 50 bananas 9 tablespoons cornstarch 

I quart Sultana raisins I tablespoon salt 

i| quarts water | cup lemon juice or strong 
f quart corn syrup vinegar 

Peel bananas, removing all coarse threads; place side 
by side in baking dishes. Wash raisins, add water, and 
simmer half an hour or longer, replenishing water as it 
evaporates ; there should be one and one-half quarts when 
done. Mix cornstarch, salt, and a little cold water which 
has been saved out. Add boiling raisin water and syrup, 
boil two minutes; add vinegar or lemon juice, bring to 
boil, and pour over bananas. Bake in hot oven thirty 
minutes, or until bananas are done. Serve as dessert. The 
bananas may be baked separately, and sauce poured over 
them when served. In that case, boil sauce five minutes. 



4 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

The number of bananas depends upon size ; there should 
be the equivalent of a small banana to each person. 

Stuffed Prunes 

2 pounds prunes i cup chopped walnuts 

3 cups chopped raisins i cup dark corn syrup 

Soak prunes over night, or longer if very hard. Drain, 
steam thirty minutes, and remove stones. Mix raisins, 
nuts, and syrup ; cook five or ten minutes in double boiler ; 
fill prunes with mixture, and chill. 

Apricot and Apple Jani 

Soak two pounds dried apricots for one or two days 
in cold water to barely cover. Add four pounds peeled, 
cored, and sliced apple. Cover closely, and cook in oven 
until soft. Add about three-fourths its bulk of dark corn 
syrup and sugar mixed, and half a teaspoon salt. Cook 
until thick and uniform in color, adding more syrup or 
brown sugar if not sweet enough. One seeded and chopped 
lemon may be added if desired. 

Prunes and Apricots 

2 pounds dried apricots 3I cups com syrup or 

i^ pounds pitted prunes sugar 

Wash fruit separately and thoroughly ; add cold water 
to cover ; soak from one to two days. Put in double boiler 
or fireless kettle in alternate layers, add water in which 
they were soaked, and cook several hours, or until quite 
soft but unbroken. Add syrup without stirring; cook 
fifteen minutes longer in fireless or on back of range. 
Unpitted prunes may be used, requiring about two pounds. 



FRUITS 5 

Apples, Italian Style 

Choose large, juicy, well-flavored apples, attractive in 
appearance. Wash and polish well, and serve in fruit dish. 
Pass with them Neufchatel, cottage, Roquefort, Young 
America, or any cheese that is not hard and dry. Cut 
apples in slices, cind spread with cheese. Serve for luncheon 
dessert. 

Apples Baked with Syrup 

50 large, tart apples i J quarts thick maple or 

1 4 quarts water brown sugar syrup 

Wash and core apples, and if skins are tough, pare the 
upper half. If possible, bake apples in baking pans that 
can be covered. Add one teaspoon salt and boiling water 
to syrup, pour over apples, and bake in rather hot oven 
an hour or more. They should be perfectly soft, even if 
they cook to pieces. If some apples are done first, remove 
from pan, and continue cooking the others. If juice seems 
watery, boil a few minutes after removing apples. Pour 
juice over apples, and chill. Serve for dessert. If apples 
are used for breakfast, one quart syrup is sufficient. 

Baked Apples De Luxe 

18 pounds tart apples i teaspoon salt 

2 quarts brown sugar i bunch mint leaves 

li quarts water Peel of one or two lemons 

Do not use apples that cook to pieces easily. Corn syrup 
may be used in place of sugar by leaving out one pint of 
water. Cut yellow peel of lemons in small pieces. Wash 
mint, and allow about two leaves to each apple. Pare, core, 
and halve apples. Put into large kettle or bean pots. Bring 
sugar and water to boil ; add mint, lemon, and salt. Pour 



6 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

over apples, bring to boil, and cook in fireless cooker or 
Aladdin oven five or six hours. The apples should be 
unbroken and amber colored. Serve for dessert. 

Pickled Apples 

i4 pecks winter apples i pint light brown sugar 

ijquartswhite corn syrup i tablespoon whole cloves 
f quart strong vinegar i tablespoon cinnamon buds 

Pare, quarter, and core apples ; add remaining ingredi- 
ents, bring to boil five minutes, and cook two or three 
hours in fireless cooker or Aladdin oven. The apples 
should be light in color, and soft but not broken. Serve 
with roast pork, veal, or game. 

Apple Amber 

12 pounds tart apples i pint boiling water 

i^ quarts corn or maple i teaspoon salt 

s jrrup 4 cup margarine ( optional ) 

Pare apples and slice thin ; put into baking dishes. Mix 
syrup, salt, and water; bring to boil, pour over apples, 
and dot with bits of margarine. Cover, and bake in 
moderate oven until apples are tender and amber colored. 
They should be only slightly colored and unbroken. Leave 
in dishes until cold. Serve for dessert with soft custard 
sauce, with cream, or plain. 

Cranberry Sauce 

4 quarts cranberries 2 quarts com synip 

I cup boiling water ^ teaspoon salt 

Wash and pick over berries. Mix remaining ingredi- 
ents, pour over berries ; put on back of range or on asbes- 



FRUITS 7 

tos mat until some juice is extracted, then cook more 
rapidly until skins are tender and juice jellies. Serve cold. 

Cranberry Relish 

4 quarts cranberries 3 lemons 

l| quarts corn syrup 2 quarts celery cut in 

i teaspoon salt half-inch pieces 

Wash and pick over berries ; drain well. Put berries, 
syrup, salt, and lemon juice in kettle ; heat slowly, then boil 
until juice jellies. Cool partly, stir in dry celery, and put 
in cold place to mold. If it does not harden, serve in sauce 
dishes. 

Summer Fruit Cups 

Fruit cups may be served as an appetizer or as dessert. 
For the former, two tablespoons of the mixed fruit and 
juice is sufficient for each person ; but for the latter, more 
generous servings should be allowed. Under existing 
conditions, it will be found possible many times to prepare 
fruit cups with less sugar or syrup than heretofore, 
sometimes even without any. Sugar should be made into 
a syrup, using half as much water as sugar, and boiling it 
two or three minutes before adding to fruit. White corn 
syrup or honey may be used in place of sugar syrup. Cook 
currants, sour cherries, or other very acid fruit, in syrup 
four or five minutes, but simply pour hot syrup over 
raspberries, peaches, and other mild fruits. Let stand in 
syrup until ice cold. There are many delicious combina- 
tions available in native fruits from June to October: 
large strawberries cut in halves, sprinkled with powdered 
sugar, and chilled ; raspberries and currants ; diced water- 
melon and canned or fresh pineapple, with or without 



8 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

lemon juice; blackberries flavored with lemon juice and 
nutmeg to taste; stoned cherries, with diced banana or 
pear or pineapple; cut peaches, stoned cherries, and a 
sprinkling of minced angelica. Sometimes a combination 
of three or four left-over fruits may be used. 

Winter Fruit Cups 

Winter fruit cups do not require syrup. Serve without 
sugar, or with powdered or granulated sugar sprinkled 
over prepared fruit before it is chilled. In order to save 
sugar, however, white corn syrup may be used instead. If 
sugar is used, do not allow more than two tablespoons 
to a large grapefruit. Peel grapefruit, separate sections 
from membrane, and cut in thirds; peel and separate 
oranges into sections, removing membrane ; peel bananas 
and cut in small dice. Winter fruits may be combined 
in various ways: grapefruit, Malaga grapes seeded and 
halved, and Maraschino cherries shredded or halved; 
grapefruit, canned pears, and preserved ginger chopped 
finely; oranges, lemon juice, and minced fresh mint; 
oranges, grapefruit, and bananas; oranges and apples; 
stewed figs cut in small pieces, lemon juice, peaches, and 
marshmallows. 



SUBSTITUTES 

The problem of substitutes in cookery reduces itself 
to three factors : fat, sugar, and flour. 

FAT 

The first one is easily disposed of: use butter substi- 
tutes, oils, hardened oil, and clarified drippings in place 
of butter and lard in cooking. In substituting fats, it 
should be remembered that seven-eighths of a cup of oil 
or lard is the equivalent of one cup of butter ; fourteen 
and one-half tablespoons of hardened oil is equivalent to 
sixteen tablespoons of butter. Also it is well to bear in 
mind that many of our cakes and prepared dishes have 
been richer in fat than at all necessary, so that it is often 
possible to cut down more or less the amount called for 
in pre-war recipes. 

SUGAR 

There are two ways of saving sugar : by making things 
less sweet, and by using molasses, syrups, or honey in 
place of all or a part of the required sugar. In nearly all 
of the dessert and cake recipes that we have been in the 
habit of using, the amount of sweetening may be reduced 
with satisfactory results. In substituting molasses and 
syrups for sugar, leave out as much liquid as there is 
molasses or syrup added. In using honey, deduct one- 
fifth cup of liquid for each cup of honey substituted. 
Dark cakes may be made without any sugar, or with a 
small amount of brown sugar in addition to the molasses 

9 



lO MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

or syrup used. Add one teaspoon of soda for each cup of 
molasses substituted for sugar. 

FLOUR 

At first, the substitution of unfamiHar flours for wheat 
flour presents serious difficulties, but the acquisition of 
a few fundamental principles and a little practical ex- 
perience soon enables one to use substitute flours very 
satisfactorily. 

Corn flour is a new acquaintance to most of us, but 
corn meal is an old friend, although one whose possibilities 
we have never realized. In some sections we have been 
confined to white meal, in others to yellow meal. Now 
we have increasingly available both white and yellow 
flour, as well as white and yellow meal. In substituting 
corn products for wheat flour, use from three-fourths to 
seven-eighths as much. Corn flour and corn meal give the 
best results when combined with one-third or one-half 
wheat flour, as they contain so little gluten; but very 
satisfactory quick breads and sponge cake may be made 
wholly of com. 

Barley flour, in particular, has been the bane of the 
housewife. The first barley flour put on the market was 
all barley, but now, under government regulation, three 
or four per cent wheat is added ; and the result is a flour 
which can be used alone or in large part in almost every- 
thing but yeast bread. The product is, of course, much 
darker, and has the characteristic barley taste unless 
counteracted by other flavors, but in time we shall become 
accustomed to that and think nothing of it. 

For yeast bread, from twenty-five to fifty per cent 
wheat flour is needed in order to give a satisfactory loaf. 
In many cases, a mixture of two or more substitutes gives 



SUBSTITUTES 1 1 

better results than one alone. Brown gravies and sauces, 
muffins, biscuits, noodles, dark cakes, sponge cakes, and 
many puddings may be made wholly of barley flour. 

A good deal is being said about the acid in barley, and 
the necessity for using limewater or some other agent to 
counteract it. When it is remembered that entire wheat 
flour and corn products contain almost as much acid as 
barley, the necessity for neutralizing it in the one case, 
when it is not done in the other, seems still an open 
question. Yeast bread made with barley flour may have 
a slightly acid, but not unpleasant, flavor which increases 
as the bread grows older; but baking powder and soda 
mixtures have no noticeable acid taste. 

With such substitutes as cornstarch, potato flour, and 
rice flour, it is necessary in many cases to use from, 
twenty-five to fifty per cent wheat, barley, or rye flour, 
to furnish gluten enough to make them stand up. Sponge 
and angel cakes may be made wholly of starch flours; 
"butter" cakes, muffins, and similar doughs requiring a 
large number of eggs, may be made with at least half of 
such flours. 

In making over old recipes, or for reversing the process 
when the war is over, the following table gives approxi- 
mately the amount of substitute flour to use in place of 
pastry flour, as that is the kind of wheat flour generally 
used in baking powder mixtures. In substituting for 
bread flour, use two tablespoons more to a cup than when 
substituting for pastry flour. For instance, use one cup 
instead of seven-eighths cup of barley. 



12 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 



Table of Substitutions 
(Approximate) 
In place of one cup of pastry or winter wheat flour use : 



Barley flour 


i cup 


Corn flour or ) 
Fine corn meal j 


1 to ^ cup 


Granulated corn meal 


f cup 


Buckwheat 


J cup 


Ground rolled oats 


1 cup 


Potato flour 


i cup 


Rice flour 


J to J cup 


Cornstarch 


i cup 



For the present, at least, it is more patriotic to use 
largely the so-called "quick breads" in place of yeast 
bread. Since they do not keep as well, it is necessary to 
bake less and oftener. Steamed breads have an advantage 
over baked ones in the longer cooking, which makes them 
more digestible. Left-over muffins, com bread, and other 
quick breads may be toasted. 

Wheatj barley, rye, and corn flour should be sifted 
before measuring ; granulated corn meal and the starches, 
such as cornstarch and potato flour, may be used without. 

The number of eggs used may be increased or decreased 
to suit prevailing conditions. If fewer eggs are used, add 
one teaspoon baking powder and two tablespoons liquid 
for each one omitted. If the number is increased, reverse 
the process, omitting the same amount of baking powder 
and liquid. 

Milk for cooking is always skim milk, unless otherwise 
specified. Water may be substituted for milk if necessary ; 
and sour milk for buttermilk, or the reverse. 



BREADS AND ROLLS 

TWENTY TO FIFTY PER CENT WHEAT FLOUR 

White War Bread 

I quart water ^ cup com syrup 

I quart hot milk i cup fat (optional) 

I cake yeast in f quart white corn meal 

i cup lukewarm water f quart barley flour 

2i tablespoons salt 3 J quarts wheat flour 

Scald milk; add syrup, fat, salt, and water. Add dis- 
solved yeast, corn meal, and barley flour. Beat hard, then 
add wheat flour until stiff enough to knead. Knead thor- 
oughly, using more flour if necessary. Let rise over night. 
Do not use any flour in shaping loaves. Put in oiled pans ; 
let rise again until double in bulk. Bake in moderate oven 
one hour or more for large loaves. The crust is more 
tender if brushed with melted margarine or other fat, but 
that may be omitted if necessary. Makes six large loaves. 

Potato Bread 

I pint hot milk i cup corn syrup 

1 quart mashed potato ^ yeast cake 

J cup fat (optional) i pint white corn meal 

2 tablespoons salt i| quarts wheat flour 

Boil potatoes, put through ricer, and pack well in 
cup. Add milk, salt, syrup, and shortening. If left-over 
mashed potato is used, leave out one-half cup milk. When 
lukewarm add yeast, which has been dissolved in one- 
's 



14 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

fourth cup tepid water. Stir in corn meal, add flour, and 
knead well. The dough will be very stiff, but will soften 
in rising, on account of the moisture in potato. Let rise 
over night. In morning, shape and bake as White War 
Bread. Makes three loaves. 

Rye Bread I 

1 quart hot milk \ cup shortening 
f quart water i yeast cake 

2 tablespoons salt i quart wheat flour 
I cup dark corn syrup Rye flour to knead 

Dissolve yeast in one-fourth cup tepid water. Add 
water, salt, syrup, and shortening to hot milk; cool. 
Add yeast and wheat flour, beating hard. Add rye flour 
to knead, let rise over night; shape, let double in bulk, 
and bake in very moderate oven about an hour and a half 
for large loaves, and one hour for small ones. Makes six 
large loaves. 

Rye Bread II 

Women's City Club of Boston 

if quarts hot water i^ tablespoons fat 

I cup molasses 2 quarts rye meal 

1 yeast cake i^ quarts rye flour 

2 tablespoons salt if quarts bread flour 

Dissolve yeast in one- fourth cup lukewarm water. Add 
molasses, salt, and fat to hot water ; cool. Add dissolved 
yeast, and rye meal and rye flour gradually, beating well. 
Add bread flour to knead as soft as possible, using more 
flour if necessary. Let rise over night ; shape, let rise till 
double in bulk, and bake in very moderate oven, about an 



BREADS AND ROLLS 1 5 

hour for small loaves, and an hour and a half for large 
ones. Makes six large loaves. 

Rye and Potato Bread 

1 quart hot milk or water ^ cup corn syrup 

2 quarts mashed potato 2 yeast cakes in 
i cup fat ^ cup water 

3 tablespoons salt 4 to 5 quarts rye flour 

Boil potatoes, and put through ricer before measuring. 
Left-over mashed potato may be used by omitting one cup 
liquid. Add hot milk to potato; cool. Add salt, syrup, 
melted fat or oil, dissolved yeast, and rye flour to knead 
into very stiff dough. This is very necessary, because the 
dough softens in rising, on account of moisture in potato. 
Makes six large loaves. 

Raisin Rye Bread 
Before shaping into loaves, add three or four cups 
washed and dried raisins to Rye Bi-ead I or II. Bake in 
small pans. Serve with coffee and cheese for luncheon 
dessert. 

Oatmeal War Bread 

2 quarts boiling water 2 tablespoons salt 

J cup fat I quart rolled oats 

I cup molasses i pint corn meal 

I yeast cake in li quarts barley flour 

J cup tepid water i^ quarts bread flour 

Mix oats, meal, salt, and fat ; add boiling water ; cool. 
Add yeast, molasses, barley flour, and bread flour to knead, 
using more if necessary. Finish as Rye Bread. Rye flour 
may be used in place of barley. Makes six loaves. 



l6 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Barley Bread 

I quart hot milk i yeast cake in 

1 quart cold water i cup tepid water 

i cup brown sugar 3 quarts barley flour 

2 tablespoons fat 3 quarts bread flour 

2 tablespoons salt or enough to knead 

Add water to scalded milk ; add salt, sugar, melted fat, 
dissolved yeast, and barley flour. Add bread flour to knead 
as soft as can be handled. Let rise over night, or start 
bread in morning, using double the amount of yeast. 
Shape loaves when dough is light. Use no flour in shap- 
ing. If sticky or soft, brush board with oil, or cut bread 
down well with knife and turn into pan without shaping. 
Brush with oil or melted fat. Let rise, and bake in very 
moderate oven about a fourth longer than for wheat bread. 
Makes six large loaves. 

Bran and Barley Bread 

I quart hot milk i cup fat (optional) 

1 quart cold water i cup molasses 

2 tablespoons salt | quart bran 

I yeast cake in l^ quarts bread flour 

i cup tepid water Barley flour to knead 

Scald milk ; add water, salt, molasses, melted fat, dis- 
solved yeast, and bran. Beat thoroughly, add bread flour, 
and barley flour to knead. Keep as soft as can be handled. 
Let rise over night; shape in loaves, brush with oil or 
melted fat, let rise until double in bulk. Bake an hour 
or more, according to size of loaves, in moderate oven. 
Makes six large loaves. 



BREADS AND ROLLS 17 

Yami-Dami Bread 

I quart boiling water 2 tablespoons salt 

1 cup rye meal i yeast cake in 

2 cups com meal ^ cup cold water 

^ cup shortening i^ quarts bread flour 

I cup molasses i quart rye or barley flour 

Mix corn and rye meal, add boiling water, stir until 
smooth. Add salt, fat, and molasses ; cool. Add dissolved 
yeast and bread flour. Beat well, and add rye or barley 
flour to knead as soft as can be handled. Let rise over 
night; shape, let rise until double in bulk, and bake an 
hour or more in moderate oven. Makes three large loaves. 



Coffee Bread 

2 yeast cakes 2 cups corn syrup 

1 pint scalded milk ^ teaspoon mace 

2 quarts barley flour 3 cups mixed fruit 

3 cups white corn flour i teaspoon salt 

I J cups shortening 3 eggs, well beaten 

Dissolve yeast in one-rfourth cup cool water. Add short- 
ening, salt, and sjrrup to hot milk ; cool. Add eggs, and 
flour sifted with mace or cinnamon. Chop citron; wash 
and dry raisins; mix fruit with a little of the flour, 
then combine with first mixture. Beat well, let rise over 
night ; pour into oiled shallow pans to depth of one inch. 
Brush with milk, and sprinkle generously with sugar 
mixed with mace or cinnamon. Let rise until about 
double in height. Bake in rather hot oven forty-five 
minutes, or until done. 



l8 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Date Bread 

2 quarts warm white i yeast cake dissolved in 

corn meal mush J cup lukewarm water 

1 pint brown sugar 4 cups cut walnut meats 
4 teaspoons salt 5 cups stoned dates 

I cup shortening i^ quarts barley flour 

Mix first four ingredients; add dissolved yeast and 
barley flour. Add wheat flour to knead thoroughly. In 
morning, or after first rising, knead nuts and dates into 
dough ; shape in loaves, let rise until double in bulk. Bake 
from fifty to sixty minutes, or until done. It should be 
thoroughly cold before cutting. Makes three loaves. 

Crumb Bread 

2 quarts hot water i yeast cake 

1 cup molasses i^ quarts crumbs 

1 J tablespoons salt 2 quarts rye flour 

i cup fat (optional) 2 quarts wheat flour 

Use any kind of left-over muffins, corn bread, or dark 
bread. Dry thoroughly, and put through meat chopper 
before measuring. Add hot water, fat, molasses, and salt ; 
cool. Add yeast, which has been dissolved in one-fourth 
cup lukewarm water, and wheat flour. Add rye flour to 
knead, using more if necessary. Finish as White War 
Bread. Barley flour could be used in place of rye. Makes 
six loaves. 

Cereal Bread 

2 quarts left-over cereal 1 yeast cake in 

1 cup molasses i cup tepid water 

2 tablespoons fat ij quarts barley flour 
li tablespoons salt i^ quarts wheat flour 



BREADS AND ROLLS I9 

Work molasses, salt, dissolved yeast, and melted fat into 
cereal, using wooden or heavy iron spoon. Add barley 
flour, and wheat flour to knead well. If cereal is quite 
jnoist, more flour will be required, but do not make stiff er 
than necessary in order to knead well. Finish as White 
War Bread. Makes four small loaves. 

Potato Rolls 

I cup shortening 3 cups hot milk 

I to I cup sugar i yeast cake in 

1 4 tablespoons salt 2 tablespoons tepid water 

i^ quarts mashed potato 3 quarts bread flour 

Half barley flour may be used if desired. The sugar 
may be omitted. Put boiled potatoes through ricer ; pack 
lightly to measure. Add hot milk, salt, shortening, sugar ; 
cool. Add yeast, and flour gradually ; it will be very stiff 
dough. Knead well, let rise over night. In morning, 
shape in balls about one and one-half inches in diameter. 
Place in oiled pans, barely touching each other. Do not 
use flour, but keep fingers well oiled. It is not necessary 
to take dough on board at all. Let double in bulk, bake 
in hot oven. Makes about six dozen medium-sized rolls. 

Barley Rolls 

I pint scalded milk | yeast cake dissolved in 

1 pint water 2 tablespoons tepid water 
f cup shortening i^ quarts wheat flour 

2 tablespoons salt i| quarts barley flour, or 
^ cup sugar enough to knead 

A pint of white corn meal or corn flour may be substi- 
tuted for one pint of wheat flour. Add water, salt, sugar, 



20 MORE RECIPKS FOR FIFTY 

and shortening to hot milk. When lukewarm, add yeast 
and wheat flour ; beat well ; add barley flour to knead as 
soft as dough can be handled. Let rise over night. In 
morning, brush board with oil, and without disturbing 
dough, turn it upside down on board. Roll to about an 
inch in thickness, cut in small rounds, and place barely 
touching each other in pans. When light, bake in hot oven 
twenty to thirty minutes. Or roll to one-half inch in thick- 
ness, and shape like Parker House Rolls. Makes about 
six dozen. 

Rye Rolls 

I pint scalded milk 2 tablespoons salt 

I pint water ^ yeast cake in 

f cup shortenirig ^ cup tepid water 

4 tablespoons sugar or ij quarts bread flour 

dark com syrup 2 quarts rye flour 

One pint barley flour or com meal may be substituted 
for a pint of bread flour. Make as Barley Rolls. In morn- 
ing, shape in smooth balls about one and one-half inches 
in diameter. Place barely touching each other in well- 
oiled pans. Let double in bulk, and bake in hot oven. 

Indian Clover Leaf Rolls 

f quart corn flour | cup shortening 

or bolted corn meal 2 tablespoons salt 

I quart hot milk ^ cup com syrup 

I yeast cake dissolved in i pint rice or barley flour 

i cup tepid water 2 quarts wheat flour 

The proportion of wheat flour may be decreased with 
fairly good results by using more com or barley flour. 
Pour hot milk over com meal ; let stand until lukewarm. 



BREADS AND ROLLS 21 

Add remaining ingredients, kneading dough until it is 
soft, smooth, and elastic. Let rise over night. In morn- 
ing, cut down with knife and let rise again, or shape 
at once. Grease muffin pans, and into each put three 
balls about an inch in diameter. Keep fingers well oiled 
in shaping rolls, but use no flour. Let fully double in bulk. 
Bake in hot oven thirty minutes, or until done. Makes 
five or six dozen rolls. 

Raised Rye Meal Biscuit 

1 quart scalded milk 2 quarts rye meal 

or milk and water i pint corn or rye flour 

2 tablespoons salt Wheat flour to knead 

I cup molasses i yeast cake dissolved in 

I cup shortening I cup tepid water 

Heat milk; add molasses, salt, and shortening; cool. 
If corn meal, instead of corn flour, is used, turn hot milk 
over it before adding other ingredients. Add yeast, rye 
meal, and wheat flour to make a dough as soft as can be 
kneaded. Knead well; let rise over night. In morning, 
shape in balls about one and one-half inches in diameter. 
Keep fingers well oiled while shaping. Place in pans to 
barely touch each other. Let double in bulk. Bake in hot 
oven thirty minutes, or until done. 

Raised Corn Meal MufHns 

f quart hot milk i yeast cake in 

4 quart water ^ cup tepid water 

1 cup shortening f quart wheat flour 
1 4 cups corn syrup ij quarts corn meal 

2 tablespoons salt f quart barley flour 



22 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Scald milk ; add shortening, salt, syrup, and water ; cool. 
Add remaining ingredients ; let rise over night. Beat well. 
Fill oiled muffin pans half full ; let rise until nearly double 
in bulk. Bake in hot oven forty-five minutes, or until 
done. 

QUICK BREADS 

WHEATLESS BREADS 

Quick Barley and Com Bread 

2i quarts barley flour J cup baking powder 

I quart fine corn meal 2 teaspoons soda 

I quart corn syrup i quart sour milk or 
2^ tablespoons salt buttermilk 

Sift dry ingredients together ; add milk and syrup. Mix 
quickly, without much beating. Fill well-oiled pans half 
full. Bake in slow oven from one to one and one-half 
hours. Com flour may be used in place of com meal. 
Small loaves are more satisfactory than large ones. Makes 
four small loaves. 

Quick Oat Bread 

li quarts oat flour or i^ quarts sour milk 

rolled oats f cup water 

i^ quarts barley flour 2 cups molasses 

f quart corn flour 3 tablespoons salt 

if tablespoons soda ^ cup baking powder 

If rolled oats are used, put through fine food chopper 
before measuring. Sift dry ingredients together ; add re- 
maining ingredients, beat well, and fill oiled bread pans 
half full. Bake in slow oven from one to one and one-half 
hours. Makes four small loaves. 



BREADS AND ROLLS 23 

Quick Bran Bread 

2^ quarts barley flour i quart corn syrup 

1 quart corn meal 2 tablespoons salt 
f quart bran i tablespoon soda 

i^ quarts sour milk i cup baking powder 

Mix and bake as other quick breads. 

Quick Buckwheat Bread 

I J quarts buckwheat flour i cup baking powder 

li quarts corn meal i^ cups molasses 

2 tablespoons salt i J quarts sour milk or 
i^ tablespoons soda buttermilk 

Mix and bake as Quick Barley Bread. 

Raisin Bread 

Use any quick bread recipe. Wash one quart seeded 
or seedless raisins; dry thoroughly, and mix with flour 
before adding liquid. Bake in slow oven. Serve as bread, 
or with coffee and cheese for luncheon dessert. It should 
be perfectly cold before cutting. 

Date Bread 

Make as Raisin Bread, substituting three or four cups 
stoned and cut dates in place of raisins. Bake in slow 
oven, and serve cold. 

Nut Bread 

To any quick bread add two cups coarsely cut walnuts 
or pecans, and two or three cups dates, cut in small pieces 
and mixed with flour before liquid is added. Bake in slow 
oven, and serve as Raisin Bread. 



24 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Brown Bread I 

i^ quarts corn meal 4 teaspoons salt 

I J quarts rye flour 2 cups raisins 

2 tablespoons soda 2 quarts sour milk 

4 tspns. baking powder 3 cups molasses 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add raisins, molasses, and 
milk. Fill oiled molds half or two-thirds full. Steam 
three and one-half hours. Remove from molds, and put 
in oven to dry for a few minutes. Makes six or more 
loaves, according to size of molds. 

Brown Bread II 

li quarts corn meal f quart water 

1^ quarts rye meal 2 tablespoons salt 

f quart molasses 4^ teaspoons soda 

f quart sour milk 2 cups raisins (optional) 

Mix and steam as Brown Bread I. 

New England Brown Bread 

I quart stale bread or f quart corn meal 

muffins crumbled in f quart buckwheat flour 

I quart cold water i tablespoon salt 

i^ cups molasses 2 tablespoons soda 

f quart rye meal 2^ cups cold water 

Graham may be used in place of buckwheat. Use any 
stale crusts or crumbs of com bread, muffins, and other 
dark breads. If dried and ground crumbs are used, take 
only two cups. Soak crumbs in water over night; in 
morning, rub through colander. Sift together dry ingredi- 
ents ; add to first mixture alternately with cold water and 



BREADS AND ROLLS 25 

molasses. Fill oiled brown bread molds two-thirds full ; 
steam three hours. Serve with any kind of beans or with 
fish. Makes six or more loaves. 



War Brown Bread 

I quart corn meal i| tablespoons salt 

I quart rolled oats 2 cups molasses 

1 quart barley flour J cup baking powder 

2 teaspoons soda 2 quarts milk or water 

Put rolled oats through meat chopper. Sift remaining 
dry ingredients together; add ground oats, molasses, 
water, and milk. Beat well. Fill oiled molds about two- 
thirds full ; steam three hours or more. 

Buckvi^heat Brown Bread 

I quart corn meal 2 tablespoons soda 

I quart buckwheat flour ^ quart molasses 

I quart barley flour 2 quarts sour milk or 
4 teaspoons salt buttermilk 

Mix and steam as War Brown Bread. 

Steamed Com Bread 

3 quarts corn meal i cup white com syrup 
3 quarts sour milk 2 tablespoons salt 

I cup fat (optiqnal) 8 well-beaten eggs 

2 tablespoons soda 

Sift dry ingredients, add remaining ingredients. Fill 
oiled molds half or two-thirds full, and steam three to 
four hours. 



26 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Steamed Barley and Corn Bread 
li quarts barley flour i cup baking powder 

1^ quarts corn meal or 3 cups water 

corn flour 3i cups sweet milk 

2| tablespoons salt 2 J cups corn syrup 

Mix and steam as Brown Bread I. 

Steamed Nut Bread 

I quart corn meal i pint sour milk 

li quarts Graham flour i^ cups molasses 

I tablespoon salt 2 well-beaten eggs 

I tablespoon soda i or 2 cups nuts 

I pt. sweet milk or water 2 cups raisins 

Mix fruit with a little of the measured flour. Sift dry 
ingredients together. Beat eggs, add milk and molasses ; 
combine mixtures. Add fruit and nuts, turn into oiled 
molds, steam three or more hours. Serve cold or nearly so. 



WITH WHEAT FLOUR 

Quick Nut Bread I 

i^ quarts Graham flour i tablespoon salt 

I quart pastry flour i tablespoon soda 

3 tbspns. baking powder i:i quarts sour milk 

2 cups brown sugar 3 cups nut meats 

Measure Graham before sifting. Sift dry ingredients 
together ; add milk and coarsely chopped nuts. Bake in 
rather slow oven an hour or more, according to size 
of loaf. Makes three large loaves. 



BREADS AND ROLLS 27 

Quick Nut Bread II 

i^ quarts Graham flour 2 teaspoons soda 

f quart bread flour 2 cups water 

4 tbspns. baking powder 2^ cups sweet milk 

li cups brown sugar 14 cups molasses 

I tablespoon salt 2 to 4 cups walnut meats 

Sift Graham, and return bran to flour before measur- 
ing. Sift flour, salt, soda, and baking powder together ; 
add Graham. Mix sugar, molasses, milk, and water, and 
add to dry ingredients. Beat thoroughly ; add coarsely cut 
nuts. Bake in bread pans, in slow oven, from one and one- 
half to two hours. Serve cold. Makes three large loaves. 

Quick Date and Nut Bread 

14 quarts pastry flour 3 eggs 

f quart Graham flour i^ cups molasses 

I tablespoon salt | quart sour milk 

I tablespoon soda ij cups walnuts 

^ cup baking powder 3 cups cut dates 

Sift Graham, and return bran before measuring. Cut 
nuts into, coarse pieces. Wash, dry, stone, and cut dates 
in pieces ; mix with a little of the measured flour. Sift dry 
ingredients' together. Beat eggs, add milk and molasses ; 
combine mixtures, add dates and nuts. Bake in oiled 
bread pans from one and one-half to two hours. Serve 
cold. Makes three large loaves. 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, 
BISCUIT, etc. 

Barley Popovers 

2^ quarts milk lo eggs, well beaten 

2^ teaspoons salt 2\ quarts barley flour 

Mix salt with flour. Make large hole in center and add 
milk, stirring constantly in ever-widening circles until all 
the flour has been used. Beat eggs thoroughly, then add 
to flour mixture ; beat about two minutes with Dover egg- 
beater. Fill hot, oiled muffin pans two-thirds full; bake 
in rather hot oven from forty-five to sixty minutes. The 
popovers should double in size and have a good crust all 
over, otherwise they will be soft instead of crisp. Avoid 
having oven so hot as to bum them on top before brown- 
ing sides and bottom. If batter is too thick, they will not 
be hollow. Makes five dozen large popovers. 

Rye Popovers 

2 quarts milk lo eggs, well beaten 

2 teaspoons salt 2 quarts rye flour 

Make and bake as Barley Popovers. One-third wheat 
flour may be used in place of rye. 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes 

3 quarts buckwheat flour | cup molasses 
I cup baking powder | quart milk 

2 tablespoons salt 3 quarts water 

28 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUIT, ETC. 29 

Sift dry ingredients together twice, add milk, water, and 
molasses to which half a teaspoon soda has been added. 
Cook at once on hot, well-oiled griddle. The batter should 
be so thin that cakes are ready to turn almost at once. 



Crumb Griddle Cakes 

3 qts. soft, stale crumbs i quart barley flour 

12 eggs, beaten separately 3 quarts hot milk 

2 tablespoons salt i cup baking powder 

Use stale mufifins, brown bread, or any dark bread. If 
dried and ground crumbs are used, one and one-half 
quarts would probably be sufificient. Pour hot milk over 
crumbs, and let stand until cool. Add yolks, and flour 
which has been sifted with salt and baking powder. 
Three-fourths cup melted fat may be added, but cakes are 
very good without it. Fold in stiffly beaten whites. Cook 
slowly on well-oiled griddle. 



Corn Griddle Cakes 

3 qts. corn flour, or white 2f tablespoons salt 
or yellow corn meal 3 quarts sour milk 

2 tablespoons soda 8 eggs 

Sift dry ingredients together; add milk and beaten 
yolks. Fold in stififly beaten whites ; or yolks and whites 
may be beaten together and added with milk. Cook on 
moderately hot griddle. Corn meal griddle cakes should 
cook rather slowly, to insure best results. The batter is 
quite thin. Makes about one hundred cakes. 



30 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Com and Potato Griddle Cakes 

2 quarts com meal 3 quarts sour milk 

1 quart mashed potato i quart sweet milk 

2 tablespoons soda 8 egg yolks 

2 tablespoons salt 8 egg whites 

Sift dry ingredients. Beat yolks, add mashed or riced 
potato, beating until smooth and thoroughly mixed. Add 
milk, and combine with dry ingredients. If left-over 
mashed potato is used, it will probably be necessary to 
omit part of sweet milk. Fold in stiffly beaten whites. 
Cook on moderately hot griddle. 

Barley Griddle Cakes 

3 quarts sour milk 2 tbspns. baking powder 
2 tablespoons salt 4 quarts barley flour 

2 tablespoons soda 6 well-beaten yolks 

^ to f cup shortening 6 stiffly beaten whites 

Sift dry ingredients. Add milk, melted shortening, and 
yolks. Fold in whites, and cook on hot griddle. Makes 
a hundred good-sized cakes. Less flour may be used if 
preferred. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

2^ quarts boiled rice i^ tablespoons salt 

2^ quarts barley flour 2^ quarts milk 

i cup baking powder 8 eggs, beaten separately 

Stir salt and milk into hot rice. Cool; add yolks, and 
flour which has been sifted with baking powder. Fold 
in stiffly beaten whites, and cook on hot griddle. 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUIT, ETC. 3 1 

Green Corn Griddle Cakes 
3 quarts green corn pulp i quart sweet milk 

scraped from cobs i to | cup shortening 

10 eggs, beaten separately i^ quarts barley flour 

2 tablespoons salt | cup baking powder 

Mix and cook as Barley Griddle Cakes. 

Barley Waffles 
4 quarts barley flour 3 quarts milk 

2 tablespoons salt 16 eggs, beaten separately 

i cup baking powder i J cups shortening 

Sift dry ingredients together ; add milk and well-beaten 
yolks, then melted fat. Fold in stiffly beaten whites. Heat 
one side of waffle iron ; turn, and heat other side. Grease 
both sides well. Put tablespoonful of mixture in each 
compartment, near center of iron. Cover, and turn almost 
at once. Cook until brown on both sides. 

Corn Waffles 
2 quarts com meal ^ cup baking powder 

2 quarts barley flour 3 quarts milk 

2 tablespoons salt 16 eggs, beaten separately 

i cup shortening 

Make and cook as Barley Waffles. 

Rice Waffles 

2 quarts cooked rice 3 quarts milk 

3 quarts barley flour 16 well-beaten yolks 

^ cup baking powder 16 stiffly beaten whites 

2 tablespoons salt i^ cups shortening 

Mix and cook as Barley Waffles. Other cereals may be 
used in place of rice. 



32 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Buckwheat Waffles 

4 quarts buckwheat flour i teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons salt 4 quarts milk 

i cup baking powder i cup shortening 

1 cup molasses i6 eggs, beaten separately 

Mix and cook as Barley Waffles. 

Virginia Waffles 

1 4 quarts boiling water J cup baking powder 

2 cups white corn meal 3 tablespoons salt 
i^ quarts milk 8 egg yolks 

2f quarts barley flour 8 egg whites 

f cup sugar i cup shortening 

Cook meal in water twenty minutes. Cool ; add sugar, 
well-beaten yolks, milk, and melted fat. Sift dry ingredi- 
ents, combine mixtures, and fold in stiff whites. Cook as 
Barley Waffles. 

Rye Biscuit I 

3 quarts rye flour ^ cup baking powder 
2 tablespoons salt 4^ cups milk, or milk 

I cup shortening and water 

Sift dry ingredients together ; cut and rub in shorten- 
ing. Mix lightly with milk to as soft a dough as can be 
handled. Do not knead or work in more flour, but pat 
dough with floured hands until it can be rolled without 
sticking. Roll to three-fourths inch thickness, cut in small 
rounds ; place in greased pans to barely touch each other. 
Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes, or until done. It is well 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUIT, ETC. 33 

to begin baking on lower grate, then finish on upper, so 
as to brown top of biscuit without overbaking bottom. 
If floury on top, brush with milk before baking. 



Rye Biscuit II 

Make as Rye Biscuit I, using half wheat and half rye 
flour. 

Barley Biscuit I 

2 quarts barley flour 2 tablespoons salt 

I quart pastry flour f cup shortening 

i cup baking powder 4I cups milk or water 

Mix, roll, and bake as Rye Biscuit. The dough should 
be as soft as can be handled. 



Barley Biscuit II 

i^ quarts barley flour ^ cup baking powder 

14 quarts corn meal | cup shortening 

1 tablespoon soda i^ quarts sour milk 

2 tablespoons salt i cup or more water 

Sift dry ingredients together; rub in shortening. Add 
sour milk and water to make a dough as soft as can be 
handled. Roll, cut, and bake as Rye Biscuit. 



Oaten Biscuit 

Make like Barley Biscuit I or II, substituting oat flour, 
or rolled oats which have been ground and sifted. 



34 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

War Biscuit 

I quart rice flour or 2 tablespoons salt 
f quart potato flour | cup baking powder 

I quart barley flour i cup shortening 

1 quart pastry flour Milk to moisten 

Mix, roll, cut, and bake as Rye Biscuit. Make as soft 
as can be handled. 

Rye Meal Biscuit 

2 quarts rye meal ^ cup baking powder 

1 quart pastry flour 6 tablespoons sugar 

f cup shortening Milk or water to make a 

2 tablespoons salt soft dough 

Make and bake as Rye Biscuit. 

Corn Biscuit 

i^ quarts pastry flour 2 tablespoons salt 

i^ quarts white corn f cup shortening 

flour or meal i^ quarts or more milk 
^ cup baking powder or water 

Make and bake as Rye Biscuit, keeping dough as soft 
as can possibly be handled. 

Quick Corn Rolls 

Make like Com Biscuit. Roll out to one-half inch thick- 
ness ; brush with melted fat or oil. Fold like Parker House 
Rolls. Place one inch apart, to allow for rising and 
spreading. If tops are floury, brush with melted fat or 
milk. Bake in quick oven twenty minutes, or until done. 
Makes about six dozen medium-sized rolls. 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUIT, ETC. 35 

Maple Biscuit 

Use any biscuit recipe. Make as soft as can be handled, 
roll to one-half inch in thickness, and cut in rounds. Brush 
half of them with softened butter substitute ; spread with 
brown or grated maple sugar ; put together in pairs. Place 
in oiled pans, barely touching each other, and bake in hot 
oven. 

Ma,ple Rosettes 
2^ quarts pastry flour ^ cup baking powder 

J quart white corn meal 4^ or more cups milk, or 
i^ cups shortening milk and water 

2 tablespoons salt i quart shaved maple sugar 

I cup oleomargarine 

A larger proportion of white corn meal may be used, 
or pastry flour alone, when not necessary to save wheat. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients together. Cut and rub in 
shortening. Add milk to make as soft as possible. Be 
careful not to knead in flour in rolling. Roll out to one- 
half inch in thickness. Cream oleo and sugar together 
until soft enough to spread. Spread thick layer on dough ; 
roll like jelly roll. Cut in three-fourths inch slices ; place 
flat side down, and barely touching each other, in oiled 
pans. Bake twenty minutes or more in hot oven. Brown 
sugar, with a tablespoon maple flavor, may be substituted 
for maple sugar. 

Orange Rolls 

Prepare dough as for Cinnamon Rolls or Maple Ro- 
settes. Spread with softened butter or margarine, and 
cover with granulated sugar which has been moistened 
with orange juice and mixed with grated rind. Be careful 
not to use too much orange juice. Bake in hot oven. 
Lemon juice may be used in same way. 



36 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Spoon Com Bread 

4 quarts water i cup fat or oil 

2 quarts milk 4 tablespoons salt 

2 quarts white corn meal 12 eggs 

Put water and corn meal in double boiler, bring to scald- 
ing point, and cook fifteen minutes longer; add milk. 
When lukewarm, add well-beaten eggs and other ingredi- 
ents. Bake in well-oiled baking dishes one hour, or until 
a knife comes out clean. Serve from dish with spoon. 

Com Dodgers 

3 quarts corn meal 4 tablespoons oil or fat 
2 tablespoons salt 2^ quarts boiling water 

Add salt and fat to com meal, then the boiling water. 
Beat well ; cool. Form into flat cakes about two and one- 
half inches in diameter and one-half inch thick. Bake 
thirty to sixty minutes in very hot oven. They should be 
crisp, and are eaten with butter or gravy with the meat 
or vegetable course. If preferred soft inside, make them 
from three-fourths to an inch in thickness. They are 
better when cooked very slowly on a griddle on top of the 
stove, but with gas it is difficult to do it satisfactorily. 

Com Meal Puffs 

1 J quarts com meal i^ quarts milk 

li quarts pastry flour i cup shortening 

5 tbspns. baking powder i^ tablespoons salt 
ij quarts boiling water 10 eggs 

Pour boiling water over com meal; add shortening; 
beat well, cool. Sift dry ingrediehts together. Beat yolks 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUIT, ETC. 37 

thoroughly, add milk, and combine mixtures. Fold in 
stiffly beaten whites, fill pans half full, and bake in hot 
oven from forty-five to sixty minutes for large muffins. 
Four and one-half to five cups barley flour may be substi- 
tuted for pastry. 

Hoe Cake 
2^ quarts boiling water i tablespoon salt 

i^ quarts corn meal ^ cup shortening 

Mix thoroughly ; spread in well-greased pans to depth 
of one-half inch. Bake in hot oven from forty-five to sixty 
minutes. Break in pieces and serve hot. 

Com Meal Gems 
3 quarts yellow corn meal 2 tablespoons salt 
if cups pastry flour | cup shortening 

f cup baking powder 2 quarts milk 

J cup sugar 2| cups water 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk, water, and 
melted shortening. Beat well. Bake in moderately hot 
oven forty-five to sixty minutes for large muffins. Hav- 
ing no eggs and so little wheat flour, these muffins are 
close in texture. 

Molasses Com Bread 
i^ quarts corn meal ^ cup shortening 

i^ quarts buckwheat 2 cups molasses 

2 tablespoons salt ij quarts sour milk 

i§ tablespoons soda i cup water 

3 tablespoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add milk, water, molasses, 
and shortening. Beat well. Bake in shallow pans in mod- 
erate oven thirty minutes, or until done. 



38 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Green Corn Puffs 

I ^quarts fresh or canned i quart barley flour 

sweet corn i-J cups corn meal 

12 to 14 eggs 6 tbspns. baking powder 

3i cups milk 2 tablespoons salt 

If fresh corn is used, remove husks and silk, and shave 
off kernels halfway to cob ; then scrape clean with knife. 
Sift dry ingredients together. Beat eggs thoroughly, add 
milk and corn, and combine with first mixture. Barley 
flour may be used in place of corn meal if preferred. Bake 
an hour or so in moderate oven, increasing heat during 
last half of time. Serve with meat course at dinner, or 
for breakfast. 

Potato Com Muffins 

li quarts com meal 6 eggs 

f cup sugar i^ quarts riced potato 

2 tablespoons salt i^ quarts milk 

i cup baking powder | cup shortening 

Put hot boiled potato through ricer ; pack lightly in cup 
to measure. Sift dry ingredients together. Beat egg yolks, 
add potato and milk; combine mixtures, add melted short- 
ening. Beat well, and fold in stiffly beaten whites. Bake 
in hot oven forty-five minutes, or till done. One cup 
pastry flour may be added. 

Raisin Com MufHns 
li quarts corn meal i cup corn syrup 

li quarts pastry flour f cup shortening 

2 quarts boiling water 2 tablespoons salt 

8 tbspns. baking powder 6 eggs 
3 cups raisins 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUIT, ETC. 39 

Wash and dry the seeded raisins, and mix with a little 
of the measured flour. Scald meal with hot water ; add 
salt, corn syrup, and shortening ; cool, and add well-beaten 
yolks. Sift flour and baking powder together; combine 
mixtures, beat well, and add raisins. Fold in stiffly beaten 
whites. Bake forty-five minutes or more in rather hot 
oven. Five and one-fourth cups barley flour may be used 
in place of pastry flour. 

Fairy Com Bread 

2\ quarts corn meal 7 tbspns. baking powder 

3I quarts milk 4 tablespoons brown sugar 

i^ tablespoons salt 20 well-beaten egg yolks 

I cup shortening 20 stiffly beaten egg whites 

Pour scalding hot milk over corn meal ; add shortening, 
salt, and sugar ; cool. Add well-beaten yolks and baking 
powder, and beat thoroughly, in order to mix in baking 
powder evenly. A little cold milk may be kept out to 
mix with baking powder. Fold in whites, and pour into 
shallow, well-oiled pans to depth of half an inch or more. 
Bake in hot oven twenty to thirty minutes. This corn 
bread is very light and delicate in texture. 

Golden Com Bread 

l| quarts yellow meal f cup baking powder 

4^ cups rice flour i^ quarts milk 

f cup sugar, or less I cup water 

^ cup shortening 2 tablespoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients together ; add liquid and 
melted shortening. Beat well. Bake in shallow pans or 
in muffin pans. Six cups pastry flour may be used in place 
of rice flour. 



40 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Berkshire Muffins 
I quart white corn meal i quart hot milk 

I quart rice flour i J cups water 

1 quart cooked rice J cup shortening 
i cup baking powder i| tablespoons salt 

^ cup sugar 7 eggs, beaten separately 

Turn scalded milk on meal ; cool. Beat egg yolks well, 
add rice, and combine with first mixture ; then add melted 
shortening, and flour which has been sifted with dry in- 
gredients. Fold in stifily beaten whites. Bake in well- 
oiled muffin pans thirty to forty-five minutes. Three and 
one-half cups barley flour may be used instead of pastry 
flour ; or two cups potato flour or cornstarch. 

White Corn Muffins 
li quarts white com meal f cup shortening 

i| quarts pastry or 2 tablespoons salt 

4i cups rice flour if quarts milk 

f cup baking powder | cup sugar 

Sift dry ingredients together; add milk and melted 
shortening. Beat well. Bake in well-oiled muffin pans, 
in hot oven, from thirty to forty-five minutes. Makes 
fifty or sixty large muffins. 

Rye Muffins I 

2 quarts rye flour i cup corn syrup 

1 quart pastry flour i^ quarts milk 

2 tablespoons salt ^ cup shortening 

10 tablespoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients together ; add milk, syrup, 
and melted shortening. Beat well. Bake thirty to forty- 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUIT, ETC. 4I 

five minutes in moderate oven. If sugar is used in place 
of syrup, add one cup milk or water. 

Rye Muffins II 
2 quarts rye flour i teaspoon soda 

1 quart pastry flour i cup molasses 
^ cup baking powder i^ quarts milk 

2 tablespoons salt 5 well-beaten eggs 

i cup shortening 

Sift dry ingredients together. Beat eggs ; add molasses 
and milk ; combine mixtures, add shortening. Beat well. 
Bake in moderate oven thirty to forty-five minutes. 

Date Rye Muffins 
I quart rye flour ^ cup sugar 

I quart rye meal i^ quarts milk 

1 quart pastry flour i cup water 

2 tablespoons salt f cup shortening 
10 tbspns. baking powder 2 packages dates 

Wash dates; stone, and cut in small pieces; mix with 
a little flour. Sift together remaining flour and other dry 
ingredients ; add milk, water, melted shortening, and dates. 
Bake thirty to forty-five minutes. 

Raisin Rye Muffins 
2^ quarts rye meal 1^ quarts sour milk 

I quart pastry flour i tablespoon soda 

2 tablespoons salt i cup sugar or less 

4 tbspns. baking powder 6 eggs 

i cup shortening 3 cups raisins 

If any bran sifts out of rye meal, return it before meas- 
uring. Mix and sift dry ingredients together. Add milk 



42 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

to egg yolks ; combine mixtures, add shortening, and beat 
well. Wash raisins, dry thoroughly, and mix with flour 
saved out for that purpose; stir into dough, and fold in 
stifily beaten whites. Bake as other Rye Muffins. 



Quaker Muffins 

1 quart barley flour i cup shortening 

2 quarts rolled oats § cup brown sugar 
i^ quarts sour milk 2 tablespoons salt 

8 well-beaten egg yolks 2 tbspns. baking powder 

8 stiffly beaten whites i tablespoon soda 

Pour milk over oats, and let stand thirty minutes or 
more. Add egg yolks and melted shortening. Mix and 
sift dry ingredients; combine mixtures. Fold in stiffly 
beaten whites. Bake in moderate oven thirty to forty-five 
minutes. Bread or rye flour may be substituted for barley. 

Potato Muffins 

2 quarts riced potato 8 eggs 

2 quarts pastry flour or | quart water 

part com flour lo tbspns. baking powder 

^ to I cup shortening 2 tablespoons salt 

I cup sugar 

Boil potatoes and put through ricer; pack lightly in 
quart cup. Left-over mashed potato can be used by omit- 
ting one-half cup water. Mix potato, water, and well- 
beaten yolks. Sift dry ingredients together; combine 
mixtures, shortening, and fold in stiffly beaten whites. 
Bake forty-five minutes, or until done. They should be 
quite crusty. 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUIT, ETC. 43 

Buckwheat Muffins I 

li quarts pastry flour 4 to i cup shortening 

1^ quartsbuckwheat flour 2 tablespoons salt 
I cup corn syrup 10 tbspns. baking powder 

i^ quarts milk 

Mix and bake as Rye Muffins. One and one-fourth 
quarts barley flour may be used in place of pastry. 



Buckwheat Muffins II 

2 quartsbuckwheat flour ij quarts milk 

1 quart barley flour | cup shortening 

2 tablespoons salt i^ cups molasses 
i cup baking powder i^ teaspoons soda 

Mix and bake as Rye Muffins. 

Oat Cakes 

3 quarts rolled oats or i| quarts sour milk 

oat flour i cup shortening 

J cup baking powder i^ cups com syrup 

2 tablespoons salt i^ cups water or sweet 
I tablespoon soda milk 

If rolled oats are used, put through fine meat chopper. 
Return the bran to sifted flour before measuring; use 
three quarts of the prepared flour. Molasses may replace 
corn syrup by adding one and one-half teaspoons extra 
soda. Sift dry ingredients; add milk, syrup, and melted 
shortening. Bake in muffin pans in rather hot oven. 



44 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Oat and Rice Muffins 
li quarts rolled oats 6 eggs, beaten separately 

li quarts rice flour i cup shortening 

2 tablespoons salt f cup water 

i cup baking powder f cup corn syrup 

li quarts sweet milk 

Put rolled oats through meat chopper before measuring. 
Sift dry ingredients together; add water, syrup, milk, 
melted fat, and egg yolks. Fold in stiffly beaten whites, 
and bake in moderate oven. 

Crumb Muffins 

i^ quarts dried and sifted f quart boiling water 

crumbs f quart milk 

i cup shortening I2 eggs, well beaten 

i cup brown sugar i^ quarts barley flour 

I tablespoon salt 4 cup baking powder 

Mix crumbs, shortening, salt, sugar, and boiling water ; 
when cool add well-beaten eggs, milk, and flour which 
has been sifted with baking powder. Beat well. Bake as 
other muffins, but longer. Makes sixty medium or fifty 
large muffins. 

Marlboro Muffins 
I quart bran i^ cups molasses 

I quart barley flour i^ quarts sour milk 

f quart fine corn meal 2 tablespoons salt 

or corn flour if tablespoons soda 

Sift flour, soda, and salt together ; add bran and com 
meal, then molasses and milk. Beat hard. Bake in moder- 
ate oven from thirty to forty-five minutes. Makes fifty 
large muffins. 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUIT, ETC. 45 

Plain Bran Muffins 

I quart bran 9 tbspns. baking powder 

I quart buckwheat flour i cup sugar or corn syrup 

1 quart barley flour | to i cup shortening 

2 tablespoons salt i| quarts milk or water 

If sugar is used, add from three-fourths to one cup 
extra liquid. Sift dry ingredients together; add milk, 
syrup, and melted shortening. Bake as other muffins. 

Date Bran Muffins 

I J quarts bran i^ quarts sour milk 

i^ quarts barley flour i cup water 

2 tablespoons salt \ cup shortening 

1 tablespoon soda f cup brown sugar 

2 tbspns. baking powder 3 cups dates 

If wanted sweeter, use corn syrup in place of water. 
Sift together dry ingredients; add bran without sifting. 
Add milk, water, shortening, and dates which have been 
stoned and cut in pieces before measuring. Bake as other 
muffins. 

Barley Muffins 

3 quarts barley flour \ cup shortening 
I cup baking powder f cup corn syrup 

2 tablespoons salt \\ quarts milk 

Three-fourths cup molasses and three-fourths teaspoon 
soda may be used in place of corn syrup. Mix and bake 
as other muffins. 



46 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Cheese Oysters 
ij quarts corn meal i^ quarts barley flour 

i quart cold water 3 tablespoons salt 

4 quarts boiling water 2 quarts grated cheese 

8 eggs or more 4 teaspoons baking powder 

Use more flour if needed; the amount depends upon 
thickness of mush and number of eggs. The oysters 
should be about the consistency of Com Oysters. Mix meal 
and cold water, add boiling water, and cook in double 
boiler one or more hours. Left-over mush may be used. 
Add cheese ; cool. Add beaten eggs, and flour which has 
been sifted with salt and baking powder. Drop by spoon- 
fuls on hot griddle which has been brushed generously 
with bacon fat or other drippings. Brown both sides. 
Serve in place of bread. 

Scotch Wafers 

I quart fine oatmeal 2 tablespoons salt 

1 quart rolled oats 3 tbspns. baking powder 

2 quarts barley flour 2 cups hot water 
I cup sugar i cup oil 

Mix first six ingredients. Add shortening to water, and 
add to first mixture. Pat, and roll as thin as possible. 
Cut with sharp knife in oblongs, about two by three inches. 
Bake in slow oven till crisp all through and slightly 
browned. Serve with jam or marmalade. 

Oat Crackers 
if quarts rolled oats 5 tablespoons oil 

f cup water or milk J teaspoon soda 

I cup molasses i tablespoon salt 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUIT, ETC. 47 

Put rolled oats through meat chopper. Add salt and 
soda to molasses aild milk; combine mixtures. Add oil; 
beat well, or knead with hands. Roll out to a very thin 
sheet ; cut in two-inch squares. Bake about twenty min- 
utes in slow oven. They should be crisp all through, but 
not very brown. This makes about one hundred. Serve 
with jam or Neufchatel cheese, or with both. 



Cinnamon or Maple Toast 

Cream together one cup margarine and one cup brown 
sugar, which has been mixed with five teaspoons cinna- 
mon; this is sufficient for fifty or sixty large half-slices. 
Trim off any burned or very dark crusts, and toast lightly 
on both sides. Spread with above mixture, and put back 
in hot oven long enough to partly melt sugar. Serve very 
hot. Or use finely shaved maple sugar and omit cinnamon. 

Prune Toast 

2 pounds prunes f cup cornstarch 

4 quarts water ^ cup orange rind 

I to 2 cups sugar 50 half -slices of 

J teaspoon salt French toast 

Wash prunes, add cold water; soak twenty- four or 
more hours. Add salt, and orange rind cut in thin shav- 
ings. Cook in double boiler or fireless cooker two or three 
hours. Do not stir, but cook until prune meat springs 
back from stone when pressed with finger. Drain off 
liquid ; there should be three quarts. Add water to make 
up required amount, bring to boil ; thicken with cornstarch 
which has been mixed with sugar. Boil two or three 



48 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

minutes; add carefully stoned prunes. Serve hot on 
French toast made with rye, barley, Graham, or white 
bread. This allows about two large prunes to each serving. 



Biscuit Toast 

Roll Rye Meal Biscuit dough to one-half inch in thick- 
ness. Cut in rounds or squares ; bake in hot oven. Split 
in halves, toast slightly and quickly in broiling oven, 
and cover with White Sauce II. Or add sauce without 
toasting. 

Brown Bread Toast 

Toast any kind of steamed brown bread, or crisp in 
oven, but be very careful not to burn it. Dip in cold salted 
water, arrange on buttered platters, put in oven two or 
three minutes to reheat, and cover with Cheese Sauce. 
Garnish with crisp bacon when possible. 

Barley Doughnuts 

5 well-beaten eggs i J quarts barley flour 

2 cups sugar i^ quarts pastry flour 

i§ cups sour milk 2\ teaspoons soda 

J cup shortening i tbspn. baking powder 

2 teaspoons salt i teaspoon cinnamon 

Add sugar, milk, and shortening to eggs. Mix and sift 
flour with remaining ingredients, and add to first mixture ; 
chill. Toss on floured board ; pat and roll into sheet one- 
half inch in thickness, but be careful not to work more 
flour into dough. Shape with doughnut cutter, dipped in 
flour each time of using. Fry in deep fat, drain on paper. 
Roll in sugar. 



GRIDDLE CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUIT, ETC. 49 

Corn Meal Doughnuts 

2j cups milk 2\ cups sugar 

3I cups very fine white 6 eggs, well beaten 

corn meal or flour i tablespoon cinnamon 
4^ cups pastry flour \ cup baking powder 

f cup shortening i tablespoon salt 

Heat milk and meal together in double boiler about 
thirty minutes ; add shortening and sugar. Sift together 
remaining dry ingredients. When first mixture is cool, 
add eggs and dry ingredients. Roll, cut, and fry as 
Barley Doughnuts. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 

Plain War Cake I 

i^ cups margarine or oil i teaspoon salt 

2i cups sugar 3 tbspns. baking powder 

I \ cups corn syrup 10 eggs, beaten separately 

I J cups milk I tablespoon vanilla or 

6| cups barley flour 2 tbspns. mace or nutmeg 

Cream shortening and sugar together; add corn syrup 
and yolks. Mix and sift dry ingredients, and add alter- 
nately with milk to first mixture. Add flavoring and beat 
hard ; fold in stiff whites. Bake in shallow pans in mod- 
erate oven. 

Plain War Cake II 

Make and bake as Plain War Cake I. Instead of using 
all barley flour, use one quart barley flour and one and 
three-fourths cups cornstarch or potato flour. 

Plain War Cake III 

Make and bake as Plain War Cake I. Instead of using 
all barley flour, use one quart barley flour and two and 
two-thirds cups rice flour. 

Marble Cake 

Use any Plain War Cake recipe. Divide mixture into 
two parts. To one part add five teaspoons maple flavor- 
ing, or one-third cup dark molasses and two teaspoons 
mixed spice, or three ounces melted chocolate. Put in 
shallow cake pans in alternate and irregular layers of light 
and dark batter. If chocolate is used, add one-half table- 
spoon vanilla to light part. 

50 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



51 



Maple Syrup Cake 



1^ cups oil 
i^ cups sugar 
14 egg yolks or 
7 whole eggs 
3^ cups maple syrup 
1:^ cups hot water 



2 cups potato flour 
4f cups barley flour 

3 tbspns. baking powder 
i§ teaspoons soda 

if teaspoons ginger 
I teaspoon salt 



Sift dry ingredients together. Cream sugar and oil, add 
well-beaten eggs and maple syrup, beating hard. Add dry 
ingredients alternately with hot water. Bake in shallow 
pans. 

White War Cake I 



1 cup margarme 

2 cups sugar 

I cup white corn syrup 
16 egg whites 
5 tspns. orange extract 
or any desired flavor 



'i cup baking powder 
I cup milk 
3 cups pastry flour 
1 4 cups potato flour or 
2^ cups rice flour or 
i^ cups cornstarch 



Cream margarine and sugar together ; add corn syrup 
and beat well. Sift dry ingredients together; add alter- 
nately with milk to first mixture. Add extract, and beat 
very thoroughly. Fold in stiffly beaten whites. Bake in 
shallow pans in moderate oven. 

White War Cake II 

I cup oil or margarine ^ cup baking powder 



2 cups sugar, 
16 egg whites 
I cup milk 
I cup white com syrup 



3 cups white corn flour 
2 cups rice flour 
2 teaspoons vanilla or 
any preferred flavor 



Make and bake as White War Cake I. 



52 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Layer Cake 

Use any recipe for Plain or White War Cake. Bake in 
layers, or bake in sheets and split in two. Put any desired 
filling between, and war frosting or powdered sugar on top. 

Cream Cake 

Use any Plain or White War Cake recipe. Bake in 
layers, and put whipped cream or Cream Filling between 
layers. Spread top with war frosting, or sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. 

Jelly Cake 

Make and bake as Cream Cake, using jelly for filling. 

Nut Cake 

Add three or four cups coarsely cut nut meats to 
White War Cake I. Bake in shallow pans or in muffin 
pans. 

Banana Cake 

Bake any plain or sponge cake in shallow pans. Split 
open; put Banana Filling between layers and on top. 
Finish with whipped cream when practicable. 

Columbia Cake 

5 cups barley flour i teaspoon salt 

i^ cups white com meal 2 J cups raisins 

2 cups sugar 2 cups milk 

I cup corn syrup i J cups oil 

i^ teaspoons nutmeg i tablespoon vanilla 

I cup baking powder | tbspn. lemon extract 

Put raisins through meat chopper, and mix with corn 
meal. Sift remaining dry ingredients together. Heat 



CAKES AND COOKIES 53 

milk, syrup, and oil to boiling point ; add vanilla and lemon, 
and stir into dry ingredients, but do not beat too much. 
There should be tiny lumps throughout the mixture. Add 
raisins, and mix well. Bake in loaves, in moderate oven, 
about an hour, or until done. Keep several days before 
using. 

Cocoanut Cake 

Use any recipe for Plain or White War Cake. Bake 
in layers; put Cocoanut Filling between layers, and 
Cocoanut Frosting on top. 

Spanish Corn Cake 
I cup margarine or oil 2| tablespoons mace 

3 cups sugar I tablespoon salt 

6 eggs I J quarts rice flour 

3 cups com syrup if quarts corn flour or 

3 cups milk bolted corn meal 

ID tablespoons baking powder 

Cream together margarine and half the sugar. Beat eggs 
very light, add remaining sugar and syrup, and beat the 
two mixtures together, then add milk. Sift dry ingredi- 
ents together ; combine with first mixture. Cinnamon may 
be used in place of mace. Bake in shallow, well-oiled pans 
forty-five minutes, or until done. 

Sunshine Cake 

3| cups white sugar ij teaspoons cream tartar 

f cup boiling water i8 egg yolks 

15 egg whites i tablespoon vanilla 

I teaspoon salt 2 cups potato flour 

Boil sugar and water together to about 217" F., or until 
it threads. Beat whites until foamy, add cream tartar, and 



54 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

beat until stiff and dry. Beat in syrup gradually, and con- 
tinue beating until mixture is cool. Fold in vanilla and 
well-beaten yolks, then fold in flour as quickly as possible. 
Bake in shallow pans from thirty to forty-five minutes, 
or in tube pans from fifty to sixty minutes. 

Roysil Sponge Cake 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons salt 

2 cups boiling water 3 tbspns. baking powder 
^ cup cold water 3 cups white corn syrup 

3 cups barley flour 12 eggs 

I cup potato flour 4 teaspoons flavoring 

Boil syrup, sugar, and water until it threads ; add to stiff 
whites, beating until mixture is cold. Sift dry ingredients 
together three times. Beat yolks until thick and lemon 
colored ; add alternately with flour to first mixture, fold- 
ing in as quickly as possible. Mix cold water and any 
desired flavoring, and add to mixture. Bake at about 
365° F. until half done, then raise to 400°. 

Barley Sponge Cake 
I quart barley flour J cup lemon juice 

3 cups sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

16 egg yolks 16 egg whites 

Beat yolks till thick and lemon colored. Beat sugar into 
yolks, and add lemon juice. Fold in alternately whites 
which have been beaten until stiff and dry, and flour which 
has been sifted with salt. Bake in shallow pans, tube pans, 
or muffin pans. Bake at 365° F. until half done, then raise 
heat to 400°. The extra lemon is to counteract barley 
flavor. Add an extra cup of sugar when conservation of 
sugar is unnecessary. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 55 

Golden Puff 

li cups rice flour 2^ teaspoons salt 

ij cups potato flour ^ cup lemon juice or 

2\ cups sugar 2\ teaspoons extract 

IS eggs 2^ teaspoons cream tartar 

Beat yolks until thick and lemon colored; add sugar 
gradually, beating all the time; add lemon. Beat whites 
until foamy, add cream of tartar, and beat until stiff and 
dry. Sift flour and salt together, and fold into yolks 
alternately with whites. Bake as any sponge cake. 

Corn Sponge Cake 

3 cups corn flour \ cup lemon juice or 

3 to 4 cups sugar i tablespoon extract 

i6 eggs i teaspoon salt 

Make and bake as Golden Puff. The acid is to counter- 
act the corn flavor. 

Sour Cream Cake 

2 cups thick, sour cream 4 teaspoons soda 

1 cup sour milk 2 teaspoons salt 

2 cups sugar i teaspoon nutmeg or 
I cup corn syrup mace or cinnamon 
8 eggs, well beaten if quarts barley flour 

Beat eggs, add sugar, and beat well ; add cream, milk, 
and syrup. Sift dry ingredients together, and combine 
mixtures. Bake about an hour in loaves in moderate oven. 
Serve hot with butter. 



56 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Chocolate Gingerbread 

3i cups mild molasses 3^ teaspoons ginger 

7 ounces chocolate 3 J teaspoons cinnamon 

if cups hot water if teaspoons salt 

3^ teaspoons soda 3^ cups barley flour 

§ cup oil or butter 2^ cups rice flour 

Mix molasses and hot water ; add half of oil, then flour 
which has been sifted with dry ingredients. Add melted 
chocolate and remaining oil. Pour into shallow, oiled pans 
to one inch or less in depth. Bake in moderate oven. 
Serve plain, with vanilla icing, or with whipped cream. 

Scotch Gingerbread 

I quart barley or rye flour 2 teaspoons salt 

1 quart pastry flour 2 cups raisins 

2 cups sugar i cup preserved ginger 
2 teaspoons soda i cup blanched almonds 
4 tspns. baking powder 2 cups molasses 

2 tspns. mace or nutmeg ij to 2 cups oil or fat 

I tablespoon cinnamon 8 well-beaten eggs 

Sift together the dry ingredients. Slice ginger and chop 
almonds very fine, and add these with raisins to first 
mixture. Heat fat and molasses to boiling point, and stir 
into dry mixture. Add eggs and beat well. Bake in loaf 
or sheet in moderate oven. 

Indian Gingerbread 
I cup oil or fat i quart corn flour or meal 

I quart dark molasses 2 teaspoons salt 

I pint boiling water 2 tablespoons ginger 

I quart barley flour or 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

li quarts pastry flour 4^ teaspoons soda 



CAKES AND COOKIES 57 

Sift dry ingredients together ; mix molasses, water, and 
oil, and combine with first mixture. Beat well, and bake 
in shallow cake pans or muffin pans. 

Pork Cake 

li pounds salt pork 2 tbspns. baking powder 

1 quart hot water 4 tablespoons cinnamon 

2 cups molasses i tablespoon nutmeg 

3 to 4 cups brown sugar i tablespoon cloves 
3I cups corn flour 2 teaspoons soda 

2 quarts rye flour i quart raisins 

Chop pork very fine ; add water, molasses, sugar. Sift 
dry ingredients together, and add to first mixture. Add 
raisins which have been mixed with a little of the flour ; 
mix well, and put into long, narrow cake pans which have 
been oiled and floured. Bake in slow oven an hour, or 
until done. This cake is better after standing a few days. 

Date Cake 

i^ cups oil or fat i tablespoon cinnamon 

3 to 4 cups brown sugar 2 teaspoons nutmeg 

I cup corn syrup 4 tbspns. baking powder 

i^ cups milk 2 quarts barley flour 

10 eggs, well beaten 2 pounds dates 

Sift flour and dry ingredients, except sugar. Wash, 
dry, and stone dates, and cut in pieces. Roll sugar if it is 
lumpy. Put all ingredients together in mixing pan, and 
beat three minutes, using spoon with slits, or use cake 
mixer. Bake in shallow cake pans, in moderate oven, 
forty to fifty minutes ; or in muffin pans thirty to forty 
minutes. 



S8 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Molasses Cakes 

1 cup oil or fat 2 tbspns. baking powder 

2 cups sugar 4 tablespoons ginger 
I quart molasses i^ tablespoons allspice 

2 quarts rye flour i teaspoon salt 

I tablespoon soda 3 cups water or milk 

Cream sugar and oil together, add molasses ; beat well. 
Sift dry ingredients together, and add half to the first 
mixture. Add milk and remaining flour alternately. Mix 
well and pour into greased individual cake pans, and bake 
in moderate oven thirty to forty-five minutes. Or pour 
into shallow cake pans to depth of one inch or less. 

Chocolate Cake 

i^ to 2 cups margarine 2 quarts pastry flour or 

1 quart sugar 7^ cups barley flour 
8 eggs, well beaten 4 teaspoons soda 

2 cups thick sour milk 8 ounces chocolate 

1 cup corn syrup i cup boiling water 

Cream sugar and margarine; add syrup, well-beaten 
eggs, milk, and chocolate which has been melted and mixed 
with boiling water ; then add flour which has been sifted 
with soda. Bake in shallow pans, in moderate oven, forty- 
five minutes, or until done. 

Raisin Cake 

i^ quarts raisins 2^ cups raisin water 

3^ to 4j cups sugar 5 eggs 

2 quarts barley flour 5 teaspoons soda 

li cups margarine 5 teaspoons nutmeg 

1 teaspoon salt 5 teaspoons cinnamon 

Cover raisins with one and one-fourth quarts boiling 
water; simmer twenty minutes, drain, and reserve raisin 



CAKES AND COOKIES 59 

water. Cream sugar and margarine; add beaten eggs, 
raisin water, and dry ingredients which have been sifted 
together. Mix raisins with one and one-third cups extra 
flour, and add to first mixture. Bake in shallow pans in 
moderate oven. 

Coffee Spice Cake 

2 cups shortening sJ tablespoons soda 

2^ cups molasses i teaspoon salt 

2^ cups coflFee i tablespoon cinnamon 

5 well-beaten eggs 2 teaspoons cloves 

2| quarts barley flour 2 teaspoons allspice 

2i cups sugar 2^ cups raisins 

Cream sugar and shortening together; add eggs and 
molasses. Sift flour with spices, salt, and soda. Add to 
first mixture, alternating with coffee, then add raisins. 
Bake in loaves or sheets. 

Apple Sauce Cake 

5 cups apple sauce if tablespoons soda 

li cups fat I J tablespoons cinnamon 

34 cups sugar 2 quarts barley flour 
I teaspoon salt -J cup corn syrup 

2^ teaspoons nutmeg 3 cups raisins 

Mix raisins with one-half cup extra flour. Mix and sift 
dry ingredients together. If sauce is unsweetened, add 
half a cup more sugar. Cream sugar and fat together; 
add syrup, apple sauce, and flour, then floured raisins. If 
sauce is very moist, another cup flour may be needed. 
Bake in shallow pans, in moderate oven, forty-five min- 
utes, or until done. 



6o MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

War Fruit Cake I 

I quart brown sugar 2 teaspoons salt 

l^ quarts water 4 teaspoons nutmeg 

3 or 4 cups seedless 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

raisins i quart com flour 

^ pound citron i quart rye flour 

i^ cups oil or drippings 7 tbspns. baking powder 

Cut citron in small, thin slices. Wash and dry raisins. 
Boil sugar, fruit, water, salt, shortening, and spices to- 
gether five minutes ; cool. Add flour which has been sifted 
with baking powder. Beat well. Bake in loaves, in mod- 
erate oven, forty-five to sixty minutes. 

War Fruit Cake II 

Make like War Fruit Cake I, substituting two quarts 
barley flour for corn and rye flour. 

Priscilla War Cake 

I quart brown sugar 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 quart water i tablespoon salt 

I quart raisins i cup baking powder 

i^ cups oil or mild drip- ^ quart pastry flour 

pings i^ quarts rye flour 

4 teaspoons nutmeg 2 to 4 cups nuts 

Cook together for five minutes the first seven ingredi- 
ents ; cool. Sift dry ingredients together, and add to first 
mixture with coarsely chopped nuts. Bake slowly in loaves 
forty to sixty minutes. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 6l 

FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 

Cream Filling 

i^ cups sugar 6 beaten eggs 

i cup potato flour or i^ quarts milk 

I cup rice flour i teaspoon vanilla 

i teaspoon salt i cup white corn syrup 

Mix dry ingredients; add slightly beaten eggs, then 
syrup; and gradually hot milk, stirring constantly until 
thickened, then occasionally. Cook about twenty minutes 
in double boiler. Cool, and add flavoring. 

Chocolate Cream Filling 

Melt four ounces chocolate or cocoa over hot water. 
Add to Cream Filling which has been made with two cups 
syrup, no sugar, and only one quart milk. 

Maple Frosting 

2^ pounds maple sugar i^ cups water 



4 to 6 egg whites 



Shave sugar as fine as possible ; add water, cook to soft 
ball stage. Beat egg whites until stiff and dry ; add syrup 
slowly, beating all the time. Set bowl containing frosting 
over hot water, and cook -for a few minutes, stirring hard. 
Remove from hot water as soon as mixture becomes 
slightly granular around edge of bowl. Beat until mixture 
holds its shape but spreads smoothly. One or more cups 
coarsely cut nuts may be added. 



62 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Fruit and Nut Filling 

f cup hot water 4 to 6 egg whites 

3 cups corn syrup i^ cups cut nuts 

i^ cups sugar 12 stewed and cut figs or 

I J cups cut raisins 24 stoned and cut dates 

Boil sugar, syrup, and water to soft ball stage. Add 
gradually to whites which have been beaten until stiff but 
not dry. Beat until of right consistency to spread, then 
add fruit and nuts. 

Banana Filling 

Peel from four to six bananas. Mash thoroughly, and 
beat until creamy. 

Peach Filling I 

Rub fresh or canned peaches through strainer, and 
use with or without whipped cream. Canned peaches 
should be drained first. 

Peach Filling II 

I J quarts canned peach f cup cornstarch 

juice and pulp Sugar to taste 

I teaspoon salt i teaspoon lemon extract 

Mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt ; add boiling peach mix- 
ture and boil five minutes, stirring often. Cool and flavor. 
Apricots may be used in same way. 

Cocoanut Cream Filling 
Add two cups shredded cocoanut to Cream Filling. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 63 

Cocoanut Frosting 

Beat three large egg whites until stiff ; beat in two cups 
powdered sugar; flavor with almond extract. Sprinkle 
thick with cocoanut. Makes enough to cover three cakes 
about nine or ten inches square. 

COOKIES 
To Bake Cookies 

Use baking sheets or large meat pans. The pans may- 
be turned bottom side up. Brush thoroughly with oil or 
melted fat, but never flour them. Allow from one to two 
inches of space between cookies. Brush off loose flour. 
Bake on lower grate of oven until about half done ; finish 
on upper grate. If cookies do not bake evenly, remove 
those that are done from pan, and put the others back 
to finish baking. 

Fruit Cookies 
i^ cups sugar i teaspoon cloves 

I cup shortening i teaspoon allspice 

3 eggs, well beaten i teaspoon ginger 

4 cup molasses i cup corn flour 

i teaspoon soda 2 cups rice or wheat flour 

I teaspoon salt Barley flour to roll 

I teaspoon cinnamon 2 cups seeded raisins 

Wash, dry, and chop raisins. Stir shortening and sugar 
together, add eggs, and beat hard ; add molasses. Sift all 
ingredients except barley flour together; combine mix- 
tures, and add barley flour to roll. Roll to one-fourth inch 
thickness ; cut in rounds or fancy shapes. Bake in moder- 
ate oven. Makes about one hundred medium-sized cookies. 



64 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Peanut Cookies 
f cup cooking oil ^ cup corn syrup 

if cups sugar i teaspoon lemon juice 

4 eggs, well beaten 2§ cups rice flour 

3 tbspns. baking powder i quart com flour 

J cup milk 3 cups or more peanuts 

Cream oil and sugar together ; add eggs, and beat hard. 
Add milk, syrup, and dry ingredients sifted together. Add 
coarsely chopped nuts and lemon juice. Drop by teaspoon- 
fuls, one inch apart, on oiled pans. Bake in slow oven. 
Makes about one hundred and fifty quite small cookies. 

Oatmeal Macaroons 
6 tablespoons fat 2J quarts rolled oats 

2\ cups corn syrup ^ cup barley flour 

f cup sugar i^ teaspoons salt 

6 eggs, well beaten 2 tbspns. baking powder 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together ; add rolled 
oats. Mix remaining ingredients, combine mixtures ; add 
four teaspoons almond extract. Beat well. Drop from 
teaspoon onto oiled pans, and bake fifteen to twenty 
minutes in moderate oven. 

Molasses Hermits 

i| cups brown sugar i teaspoon cinnamon 

li cups shortening i tablespoon soda 

3 tablespoons vinegar i| cups molasses 

I tablespoon salt i J cups coffee 

I tablespoon ginger 2 cups raisins, chopped 

i teaspoon cloves if quarts barley flour 

Cream sugar and shortening together; add molasses, 
vinegar, and coffee. Mix and sift dry ingredients to- 



CAKES AND COOKIES 65 

gether; combine mixtures. Add raisins, which may be 
mixed first with a little of the flour. Beat well. Drop 
from tip of spoon, one inch apart, on well-greased pans. 
Bake in hot oven. 

Surprise Cookies 

I cup shortening 2 teaspoons cream tartar 

14 cups sugar i teaspoon soda 

.1 cup corn syrup 2 teaspoons salt 

2^ quarts barley flour 4 teaspoons vanilla 

4 well-beaten eggs ^ cup water 

Rub shortening and sugar together ; add eggs, and beat 
well. Then add syrup, water, vanilla, and flour which has 
been sifted with dry ingredients. Roll one-fourth inch 
thick; cut in three-inch rounds and put filling between, 
pressing edges together. Bake in moderate oven. 

Pilling 
3 cups raisins li cups corn syrup 

3 tablespoons cornstarch | cup hot water 

Mix cornstarch with four tablespoons cold water ; add 
syrup, hot water, and finely chopped raisins. Cook in 
double boiler ; cool. 

Chocolate Drop Cookies 

il cups sugar 3f cups rye flour 

I J cups corn syrup 2| cups barley flour 

3 eggs, well beaten 2^ teaspoons soda 

I J cups milk li teaspoons cream tartar 

1 cup shortening 2^ teaspoons vanilla 

f teaspoon salt 6 or 7 tablespoons cocoa 

Mix sugar, cocoa, salt, melted shortening, and syrup 
together ; add eggs, milk, and flour sifted with soda and 



66 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

cream of tartar, and then vanilla. Drop by teaspoonfuls, 
and bake in moderate oven. Coarsely cut nuts may be 
added. Makes about five dozen cookies of medium size. 



Columbia Cookies 

I quart barley flour ^ teaspoon cloves 

I quart rolled oats 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

I J pints bran i teaspoon allspice 

I J cups brown sugar ^ teaspoon nutmeg 

I cup corn syrup 2 teaspoons salt 

i cup molasses i teaspoon soda 

I J cups shortening 3 eggs, well beaten 

i cup milk 2 or more cups raisins 

Sift together flour, spices, salt, and soda ; add bran and 
rolled oats. Beat eggs ; add sugar, molasses, milk, syrup, 
and shortening; combine mixtures. Add raisins which 
have been washed, dried, and chopped if necessary. Beat 
well ; drop by tablespoon fuls, an inch apart, on oiled pans. 
Bake in moderate oven. Makes about six dozen good-sized 
cookies. 

Buckwheat Drop Cookies 

I cup shortening 3^ cups buckwheat flour 

I cup brown sugar i teaspoon salt 

I cup molasses i teaspoon cinnamon 

4 well-beaten eggs i teaspoon allspice 

I teaspoon clove i teaspoon soda 

Cream oil and sugar together ; add eggs and beat hard, 
then add molasses. Sift dry ingredients together; com- 
bine mixtures. If preferred thicker, add one-half cup 



CAKES AND COOKIES 67 

more flour. Drop by spoonfuls, two inches apart, on well- 
oiled pans. Bake in rather hot oven. Use lower grate 
until about half done, then finish on upper grate. 



Barley Sugar Cookies 

4i cups barley flour 5 beaten eggs 

I i cups margarine 2^ teaspoons cream tartar 

2| cups sugar i^ teaspoons soda 

I teaspoon salt i teaspoon vanilla 

The vanilla may be omitted, or other flavoring substi- 
tuted if desired. Cream shortening and sugar together; 
add eggs, then flour mixed and sifted with soda, salt, and 
cream tartar. Chill ; roll quite thin ; cut in small rounds 
or fancy shapes. Place an inch apart in oiled pans. Bake 
in moderate oven, the first half of the time on lower grate, 
then on upper grate to finish. 



Bran Drop Cookies 

2 cups brown sugar i^ teaspoons soda 

2 cups sour milk i teaspoon salt 

2 cups bran i cup shortening 
2 cups barley flour ^ cup molasses 

I ^ cups corn flour or 2 or more packages dates 

bolted corn meal i or more cups nut meats 

Sift together flour, corn meal, soda, and salt. Add 
molasses to sugar, beat well; add sour milk, bran, and 
shortening; combine mixtures. Add coarsely cut nuts 
and dates. Drop by spoonfuls, one inch apart, on oiled 
pans. Bake in moderate oven. 



68 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Nut Molasses Bars 

i| cups margarine or i J quarts barley flour 

1 1 cups oil li tablespoons ginger 

f cup boiling water i teaspoon nutmeg 

i^ cups brown sugar i tablespoon salt 
li cups molasses f teaspoon clove 

I tablespoon soda Chopped nut meats 

Pour hot water over shortening; add molasses and 
sugar. Sift dry ingredients, and combine mixtures. Chill. 
Roll one-fourth inch thick ; cut in strips three and one-half 
inches long by one and one-half inches wide. Sprinkle 
with chopped nut meats, and bake about ten minutes. 

Alada Rolls 
^cup margarine § cup sugar 

I scant cup pastry flour or i tablespoon ginger 
J cup rye flour ^ cup molasses 

Heat molasses to boiling point, add shortening; then, 
while stirring constantly, add slowly flour which has been 
sifted with ginger and sugar. Drop small portions, two 
inches apart, from tip of spoon on oiled pans. Bake in 
slow oven, cool slightly, and roll over handle of wooden 
spoon. This makes five or six dozen rolls. Serve with 
coffee, or for afternoon tea. 

Cottage Cheese Cookies 
f cup shortening f teaspoon soda 

3 cups sugar i tbspn. bakmg powder 

3 well-beaten eggs f teaspoon nutmeg 

3 cups cottage cheese 4^ cups barley flour 

Cream shortening; add sugar, beaten eggs, and cottage 
cheese. Sift dry ingredients together, and add to first 



CAKES AND COOKIES 69 

mixture. The amount of flour depends upon amount of 
moisture in cheese ; use more if needed. Cookies should 
be rather thin when done. 

Date Crackers 
2i pounds dates if quarts barley flour 

14 cups corn syrup 2^ teaspoons soda 

I cup brown sugar i teaspoon salt 

I cup cold water i J cups hot water 

I J quarts rolled oats i cup white sugar 

2 cups oil 

Wash and stone dates ; mix with cold water, syrup, and 
brown sugar, and cook until soft. Cool. Sift flour, salt, 
and soda together. Rub white sugar and shortening to- 
gether ; add hot water, rolled oats, and flour. Mix well ; 
roll in two thin, square sheets. Spread date mixture on 
one, and cover with the other. Cut in three-inch squares, 
or in oblongs three by two inches. It is easier not to roll 
all the dough at once. Bake in rather hot oven. 

Cocoanut Marguerites 
i^ cups sugar i cup shredded cocoanut 

f cup water f teaspoon vanilla 

8 marshmallows i^ cups walnut meats 

3 egg whites Unsweetened wafers 

Boil sugar and water until syrup threads. Remove to 
back of range, and add marshmallows cut in pieces. Add 
to stiff whites of eggs, beating all the time. Add cocoanut, 
vanilla, and coarsely cut nuts. Spread saltines or unsweet- 
ened wafers with mixture, and bake in moderate oven 
until delicately browned. Serve with coffee for dessert, 
or for afternoon tea. 



7© MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Maple Marguerites 

I pound maple sugar 2 egg whites 

I cup boiling water 2 cups walnut meats 

Cut sugar as fine as possible; add water, and boil to 
soft ball stage. Cool slightly, beat into stiff whites, and 
continue beating until mixture is of consistency to spread. 
Add half of coarsely chopped nuts, spread on crackers or 
unsweetened wafers ; sprinkle with remaining nuts. Serve 
with coffee, or for afternoon tea. 

Marshmallow Marguerites 

Spread unsweetened wafers with butter substitute. 
Place a marshmallow on each, with a bit of butter on top 
of marshmallow. Bake in hot oven one or two minutes, 
or until marshmallows puff up. Serve at once. 



EGGS 

Scalloped Eggs and Onions 

I peck onions 3 quarts White Sauce II 

25 to 50 eggs I quart soft crumbs 

Peel onions; cut in two or more pieces, if necessary, 
in order to have them of uniform size. Cover with cold 
water, add one teaspoon soda, boil two minutes, drain. 
Add boiling water to cover ; boil five minutes ; drain. Add 
boiling water to more than cover, with two tablespoons 
salt, and boil until soft ; drain thoroughly. 

Cook eggs thirty to forty minutes in water at simmer- 
ing point. Remove shells ; cut in thick slices, or in quarters 
lengthwise. 

Put layer of onions in bottom of baking dishes, then 
layer of eggs. Cover with onions, and add white sauce. 
Mix crumbs with one-half cup melted oleo, sprinkle on 
top, and bake until crumbs are brown. If necessary, the 
crumbs may be omitted. If a small number of eggs is used, 
it is well to have more onions; or add some cold boiled 
potato cut in cubes, or left-over boiled rice or samp. 

Potato Omelet with Bacon 

6 quarts diced potato 3 tablespoons salt 

2 to 4 dozen eggs i teaspoon pepper 

3 quarts hot milk 50 small slices bacon 

Arrange slices of bacon close together in meat pans, 
and cook in oven until crisp and slightly browned. Re- 
move from fat and keep hot. Cut cold boiled potatoes 

71 



72 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

in dice, turn into hot fat, and cook until hot and a little 
browned. Remove to casseroles. Beat eggs thoroughly ; 
add salt, pepper, and hot milk. Pour over potatoes, cover, 
and bake in moderate oven until egg is set throughout. 
Lay slices of bacon on top, and serve at once. If more 
than two dozen eggs are used, additional salt will be 
needed. 

Smothered Eggs 

f peck potatoes ^ cup minced parsley 

2 quarts WhiteSaucell 6 tablespoons onion 

25 to 50 eggs 4 tablespoons salt 

I quart hot milk 2 teaspoons pepper 

Peel and boil potatoes, put through ricer; add salt, 
pepper, and hot milk to make creamy, but not sloppy. 
Beat well. 

Cook eggs until hard; cut in slices. Put a layer of 
potato in bottom of baking dishes; cover with eggs, 
sprinkle with finely minced onion, add white sauce, and 
cover with remaining potato. Put in hot oven to brown 
slightly. The dishes may be made more attractive by put- 
ting the top layer of potato through potato ricer again, 
or through pastry bag. 

Eggs in Potato Nests 

1 peck potatoes S tablespoons salt 

2 quarts hot milk 2 teaspoons pepper 
I or 2 cups margarine 50 eggs 

Peel and boil potatoes, put through ricer ; add salt, and 
milk to make creamy. Beat until fluffy. Pile in baking 
dishes, making little hollows or nests for the required 
number of eggs. Break an egg into each nest, sprinkle 



EGGS 73 

with salt and pepper, dip a little melted margarine over 
each ; cover dishes, and cook in oven until whites are firm. 
Serve for luncheon or dinner. 

Curried Eggs with Green Peas 

3 quarts White Sauce II 4 teaspoons or more curry 

6 quarts cooked peas 25 to 50 hard-cooked eggs 

Fresh or canned, or stewed dried green peas may be 
used. In making white sauce, add curry to flour before 
stirring into fat. If only twenty-five eggs are used, two 
quarts boiled rice may be added to sauce. Pile sliced eggs 
in center of platters, with border of peas ; then pour hot 
sauce over eggs. 

Scrambled Eggs with Smoked Halibut 

Pour hot water over one or two pounds smoked halibut, 
let stand ten or fifteen minutes ; drain, and cut in half-inch 
pieces, or in shreds. 

Prepare scrambled eggs as usual, omitting salt. Add 
halibut two or three minutes before serving, and salt to 
taste. 

Scotch Woodcock 

50 hard-cooked eggs i teaspoon pepper 

4 quarts White Sauce II i pound grated cheese 

Cook eggs thirty minutes in water just at the boiling 
point. Put into cold water a few minutes ; remove shells. 
Cut in two lengthwise, and each half in two or three pieces 
crosswise ; put into baking dishes. One or two quarts of 
boiled rice, samp, or macaroni may also be added. 

Melt cheese in white sauce, and add to eggs, lifting 
them with a fork to allow sauce to moisten them uni- 



74 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

formly. Sprinkle a little of the cheese over top ; or cover 
top with soft crumbs, using a quart of crumbs and one- 
half cup melted margarine. Bake twenty minutes, or until 
crumbs are browned. 

Corn Meal Omelet 

3 quarts milk i8 eggs 

1 1 cups corn meal 2 tablespoons salt 

1 teaspoon pepper i^ cups drippings 

Put corn meal and milk into double boiler, and bring 
to scalding point ; then cook twenty minutes or so, and add 
slowly to well-beaten yolks. Add salt and pepper, and 
fold in stifHy beaten whites. Put four tablespoons drip- 
pings in each baking dish, and turn in the omelet mixture. 
Bake forty-five minutes, or until a knife comes out clean. 
Serve at once. 

Brown Bread Omelet 

2 quarts dark bread in 24 eggs 

half-inch cubes 2 tablespoons salt 

i cup barley flour i J teaspoons pepper 

3 quarts milk f cup drippings 

Cook the bread cubes in the drippings until the fat is 
absorbed. Rub the flour smooth in a little milk; add 
milk, beaten yolks, bread, and seasonings, and fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites. Pour into well-oiled baking dishes, 
and cook in a moderate oven until firm; requires from 
thirty to forty-five minutes. Serve at once. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 

Lettuce Soup 

lO quarts chopped lettuce f cup potato flour 

6 quarts stock or water i^ cups butter substitute 

6 quarts hot milk 6 tablespoons salt 

I cup minced onion 2 teaspoons pepper 

The coarser outside leaves may be used for soup, re- 
serving the hearts for salad. Chop fine or put through 
meat chopper. Add boiling water or stock and onion ; boil 
twenty minutes. Stir flour and fat until smooth, add milk, 
and cook twenty minutes in double boiler. Combine mix- 
tures, add seasonings, bring to boil, and serve at once. 

Tapioca Soup 

2 No. 10 cans tomatoes i teaspoon peppercorns 
7 quarts stock 2 teaspoons paprika 

I cup chopped onion 4 tablespoons sugar 

5 bay leaves i^ cups pearl tapioca 

3 teaspoons cloves i quart cold water 

5 tablespoons salt 3 quarts mixed vegetables 

Soak tapioca in cold water several hours, then cook until 
clear in double boiler. Cook the first nine ingredients 
together twenty minutes, add one teaspoon soda; strain, 
and add to tapioca. Cut into small pieces cooked carrot, 
turnip, solid portions of tomato, or other vegetables, in 
any convenient proportion; add a few cooked peas, and 
stir into soup. Bring to boil, and serve at once. 

75 



76 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Parsnip Chowder 

1 pound fat salt pork or 5 quarts hot milk 

2 pounds fresh pork 2 cups chopped onion 

2 quarts diced potato 5 tablespoons salt or more 

4 quarts diced parsnip i teaspoon pepper 

6 quarts boiling water J cup potato flour or more 

Cut pork in small cubes, cook slowly until brown ; remove 
pork, and reserve one cup of fat. Cook onion slowly in 
remaining fat five minutes. Put parsnip, onion, pork cubes, 
and boiling water into kettle, boil thirty minutes; add 
potatoes, and cook twenty minutes, or until vegetables 
are soft. Add flour to reserved pork fat ; add hot milk, 
stir well, and cook in double boiler twenty minutes. Com- 
bine mixtures, add seasonings, bring to boil, and serve at 
once. 

Left-over roast or boiled pork may be used, without 
browning it. 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

^ bushel spinach or ^ cup cornstarch 

4 quarts cooked spinach i cup pork fat 

4 quarts boiling water 8 quarts hot milk 

5 tablespoons salt 2 teaspoons pepper 

Wash spinach thoroughly, add water and part of salt, 
boil until very soft ; rub through puree strainer. If cooked 
spinach is used, add water and put through strainer with- 
out further cooking. Melt fat, add flour, stir until smooth ; 
add hot milk, and cook in double boiler twenty minutes 
or so. Combine mixtures ; add remaining salt, pepper, and 
one-half teaspoon nutmeg if liked. Serve very hot. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS ^7 

Cream of Cress Soup 

i8 bunches watercress or 3 quarts rich milk 
10 quarts chopped cress 5 or more tablespoons salt 

\ cup minced onion i teaspoon pepper 

2 cups rice 2 cups fat 

10 quarts stock Nutmeg to taste 

Wash cress, and chop stems and all very fine. Cook 
onion in fat slowly for five minutes. Cook cress, stock, 
rice, and onion together till rice is quite soft ; rub through 
puree strainer. Add hot milk and seasonings. Serve very 
hot. Or serve without straining. 

Lentil Soup 

2 quarts lentils 2 cups chopped onion 

10 quarts stock 5 or 6 tablespoons salt 

2 quarts tomatoes i cup margarine 

I cup dry celery leaves \ cup cornstarch 

6 sprigs parsley i teaspoon pepper 

Soak lentils over night in plenty of cold water ; drain. 
Cook lentils, celery, parsley, onion, tomato, and stock 
together two hours, or until soft; rub through strainer. 
Rub fat and cornstarch together until smooth, add to soup 
with seasonings, boil five minutes ; serve. 

Barley Soup 

I quart pearl barley 6 quarts chopped cabbage 

12 quarts water or stock 5 or more tablespoons salt 

1 quart sliced onion i teaspoon pepper 

2 quarts chopped carrot i cup drippings 

2 quarts chopped turnip \ cup minced parsley 

Cook vegetables five minutes in drippings ; add barley, 
salt, pepper, and boiling water. Cook forty-five minutes, 



78 - MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

or until vegetables are tender. If water is used, add vege- 
table or beef extract, to flavor and color. Sprinkle with 
chopped parsley. 

Salmon Chowder 

I pound salt pork 2 teaspoons paprika 

I cup sliced onion ^ cup cornstarch 

5 quarts boiling water 6 quarts hot milk 

5 quarts diced potato 5 or 6 i-lb. cans salmon 

I cup fish oil or pork fat 5 tablespoons or more salt 

Cook salt pork five minutes ; add onion, and cook slowly 
five minutes longer. Add water and potato, and cook 
twenty minutes, or until soft. 

Stir fish oil and cornstarch until smooth, add hot milk, 
and cook thirty minutes in double boiler. Separate salmon 
into flakes, remove skin and bones, and add to sauce, with 
seasonings. When hot, combine mixtures, and serve at 
once. 

Salt Fish Chowder 

3 pounds salt codfish 8 quarts hot milk 

4 pound diced salt pork ^ cup potato flour or 

I quart sliced onion J cup cornstarch 

6 quarts sliced potato ^ cup chopped parsley 

4 quarts boiling water Salt and pepper to taste 

More codfish may be used if desired. Cover with cold 
water, bring slowly to simmering point, and keep at that 
temperature until soft enough to shred fine. 

Cook pork slowly until crisp; remove from fat, and 
cook onion slowly five minutes in the fat. Peel potatoes 
and cut in slices. If potatoes are large, cut in halves or 
quarters lengthwise before slicing. Put potatoes and 



SOUPS AND Chowders 79 

onions in kettle, add boiling water, and cook twenty min- 
utes, or until soft. 

Add flour to cold pork fat, stir until smooth, and add 
to hot milk ; cook in double boiler thirty minutes. Combine 
mixtures ; add fish, chopped parsley, diced pork, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Serve with celery and crackers. 

Cream of Scallop Soup 

6 or more quarts scallops f cup minced onion 

6 quarts rich milk 4 tablespoons salt 

6 quarts water 2 teaspoons pepper 

I cup potato flour | cup lemon juice 

I cup margarine i cup minced parsley 

I cup drippings 

Wash scallops and chop fine. Melt one cup drippings, 
add onion and scallops, and cook until slightly colored; 
be very careful not to burn them. Add cold water, bring 
to boil, and simmer twenty minutes. Mix flour to a smooth 
paste with margarine, and add to milk which has been 
heated in double boiler; cook twenty to thirty minutes. 
Combine mixtures, add seasonings, and serve very hot. 

Peanut Butter Soup 

I J quarts peanut butter 7 quarts stock 

3 cups chopped onion 6 quarts White Sauce I 
^ bunch chopped celery 2 teaspoons paprika 

4 to 6 bay leaves Salt to taste 

Cook peanut butter, onion, celery, and bay leaves in 
stock thirty minutes; rub through strainer. Add white 
sauce and seasonings. 



8o MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Vegetable Chowder 

5 quarts boiling water i quart diced potato 

I quart diced carrot i pound bacon or salt pork 

I quart diced turnip ^ cup potato flour 

I quart cooked Limas 6 quarts hot milk 

I pint diced onion 5 or more tablespoons salt 

I pint cut green pepper i teaspoon pepper 

I quart diced celery ^ cup chopped parsley 

Boil water, carrot, and turnip together forty-five min- 
utes or more; add remaining vegetables, and boil twenty 
minutes longer. Cut bacon in small cubes, cook slowly 
until crisp, and remove cubes. Stir flour into cooled fat, 
add hot milk, and cook twenty to thirty minutes in double 
boiler. Combine mixtures, add bacon cubes and season- 
ings ; sprinkle with parsley. 

Mutton Broth 

12 quarts mutton stock 2 quarts cut celery 

2 quarts chopped tomato i^ cups rice 

1 cup chopped onion 3 quarts mutton 

2 quarts chopped turnip Pepper and salt to taste 

Remove fat from stock. Add washed rice and vege- 
tables, bring to boiling point, and cook forty minutes, or 
until vegetables are soft. Stir well at first, to prevent rice 
sticking. Add pepper, salt to taste, and mutton which has 
been cut in small bits. Bring to boil again, sprinkle with 
chopped parsley, and serve with dark bread croutons. If 
a thicker soup is wanted to serve as main course for 
luncheon, the amount of vegetables and rice may be in- 
creased as desired. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 8 1 



Potato Stew 



8 to ID pounds potatoes | cup potato flour or 

i^ quarts sliced onion J cup cornstarch 

2 cups diced celery 3 quarts milk 

li pounds salt pork 5 or more tablespoons salt 

8 quarts water 2 teaspoons pepper 

i cup minced parsley 3 cups grated cheese 

Cut pork in half-inch cubes, cook slowly until crisp; 
remove pork, and reserve one cup fat. Add onion and 
celery to remaining fat, and cook five minutes. Cook 
potato, water, onion, celery, and pork scraps together 
slowly about forty-five minutes. Stir reserved fat and 
flour together, add hot milk, and cook twenty to thirty 
minutes in double boiler. Turn into potato mixture, add 
seasonings, bring to boil, and serve with grated cheese 
sprinkled over top. 

Country Chowder 

4 quarts green corn pulp 8 quarts boiling water 

3 quarts shelled Limas 4 quarts hot milk 

4 quarts sliced potato ^ cup potato flour or 
I pint sliced onion ^ cup cornstarch 

I pound salt pork 6 tablespoons salt 

^ cup minced parsley i teaspoon pepper 

If potatoes are large, cut in halves or quarters length- 
wise before slicing. Cut pork in half-inch cubes ; try out 
fat. Remove pork, add onion to fat, and cook slowly 
five minutes. Cook beans, water, pork, and onion one hour, 
or until soft. Add potato, and boil ten minutes ; add corn, 
and boil ten minutes longer. Stir flour into cooled pork 
fat, add hot milk, stir until smooth, and cook twenty min- 



82 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

utes in double boiler ; add seasonings. Combine mixtures, 
and serve very hot. Sprinkle with parsley. 

Dried Limas which have been soaked several hours in 
cold water, and canned corn, may be used in place of fresh 
vegetables. 

Swedish Soup 

12 quarts veal stock i teaspoon pepper 

6 quarts cabbage i cup drippings 

I J quarts celery or 4 bay leaves 
2 tbspns. celery seed ^ teaspoon mace 

I cup minced onion i quart diced veal 

I cup chopped carrot 5 tablespoons or more salt 

If the stock has been seasoned, less salt will be needed. 
Cook vegetables in drippings five minutes or more; add 
stock and bay leaves. Cook forty-five minutes, or until 
vegetables are done, replenishing stock if necessary. Add 
seasonings and diced veal. Serve boiling hot. 



Scotch Soup 

12 quarts water 2 quarts sliced onion 

l| quarts rolled oats i tablespoon celery salt 

5 tbspns. or more salt 2 teaspoons pepper 

6 quarts sliced potato i cup drippings 

Peel and slice small potatoes. Cook sliced onion in drip- 
pings. Put all ingredients into kettle, boil five minutes, 
and cook in fireless cooker or in Aladdin oven about an 
hour. Stock or meat gravy may be substituted for part 
of the water. Serve with cucumber pickles, and toasted 
muffins or dark bread croutons. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 83 

Plymouth Succotash 

10 pounds corned beef 2 quarts diced potato 

12 pounds fowl 2 quarts diced turnip 

6 quarts or more hulled i quart dried Lima beans 

corn or sweet corn Salt and pepper to taste 

Cook corned beef and fowl separately, using about four 
quarts water for each ; remove meat. Cool liquor, remove 
fat, and heat broths together. Add hulled com, and let 
simmer from one to two hours. 

Soak beans over night ; drain, add boiling water, parboil 
thirty minutes. Drain, add to hulled corn. Shelled green 
beans may be used instead. 

Add potatoes and white turnips about forty-five minutes 
before serving. Bring to boil, then keep at simmering 
point. Cut fowl and beef carefully in inch pieces ; add to 
mixture, season to taste, and bring to boil. Serve like 
chowder, with small biscuit or rolls. 



FISH 

Fish a la Pierce 

I to 3 pounds salt pork 24 pounds cod 

3 to 6 green peppers 3 quarts White Sauce II 

3 tablespoons salt or less ^ pound cheese 

Cut fat pork in half-inch dice, cook slowly until golden 
brown, remove from fat. Use fat for white sauce. 

Have fish skinned and boned at market ; cut in pieces 
for serving. Put in casseroles, sprinkling each layer with 
diced pork, chopped peppers, and salt, allowing one table- 
spoon salt with each pound salt pork used. Add sauce, 
liftingfish sothat all parts will be well moistened. Sprinkle 
grated cheese and bits of margarine over top, cover 
closely, and bake about an hour, uncovering for last ten 
minutes. 

Haddock, tilefish, or any white fish may be used. 

Fish a la MacDermaid 

24 pounds cod orhaddock 2 tablespoons salt 
2 pounds onion sliced i^ teaspoons pepper 

2 to 3 pounds salt pork i^ pounds cheese 

Cut onion in very thin slices ; cut pork in thin slices and 
each slice in two pieces ; grate cheese or cut in very thin 
slices. Put onion in bottom of agate platters or shallow 
pans. Wipe fish with wet cheesecloth, remove backbone ; 
place fish, skin side down, on onion, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, cover with bits of pork and cheese. Add milk 
barely to cover bottom of pan ; it requires about a quart 
in all. Cook forty-five minutes, or until done and sUghtly 

84 



FISH Sg 

browned. Add more milk if necessary, and cover pans 
part of the time if there is danger of browning too much. 
If possible, serve from dish in which it is cooked. 

Fish, Creole Style 
24 lbs. cod or haddock i| cups barley flour 

3 cups strained tomato i tablespoon salt 

3 green peppers i tablespoon sugar 

li cups oil 3 tablespoons parsley 

3 tablespoons onion 36 or more mushrooms 

Have fish skinned and boned at market. Brush bottom 
of broiling pan very thoroughly with oil or drippings, lay 
fish in pan, and broil for ten or fifteen minutes. Re- 
move fish to casseroles, add sauce, and cook fifteen minutes 
in moderate oven ; or cook fish entirely in oven. 

Sauce 

Cook finely minced pepper and onion in fat until soft- 
ened, add flour, stir well; add hot tomato, stirring con- 
stantly. Stir in sugar, salt, chopped parsley, and mush- 
rooms which have been cut in pieces. Dried mushrooms 
should be soaked in cold water from twelve to twenty-four 
hours before cutting. 

Fish with Sauce Poulette 
24 pounds cod or haddock 6 or more egg yolks 
3 quarts White Sauce II i teaspoon pepper 

I to 2 pounds salt pork 6 tablespoons parsley 

Cut cod in six four-pound chunks for boiling. Wipe 
with cloth wrung out of cold water. Cook in fish boiler 
or steamer; add one teaspoon salt to each quart water 
used. Cook from thirty to sixty minutes, or until flakes 



86 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

separate. The fish should keep its shape. Cut pork in 
half-inch dice, and cook slowly until golden brown. Use 
pork drippings for white sauce. When sauce is done, stir 
into beaten yolks, stirring constantly ; cook one minute in 
double boiler. 

Place fish in center of platters, cover with part of sauce, 
and sprinkle with parsley. Garnish with crisp pieces of 
pork, and circles of cucumber pickle and boiled carrot; 
or with small boiled onions and sliced beets. Pass remain- 
ing sauce. 

Any white or lean fish, such as halibut, tilefish, or white- 
fish, may be used in place of cod, but the quantity varies 
with kind of fish. 

Fried Fish a la Duren 

Have twenty-four pounds cod or haddock boned, 
skinned, and cut in fillets. Wipe with cloth wrung out of 
cold water. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, 
using two lemons, two tablespoons salt, and two teaspoons 
pepper. Let stand an hour or so, roll in barley flour or 
corn meal, and saute in oil or drippings until brown and 
crisp on both sides. Arrange fish on platters, and pour 
over it the following sauce : 

Sauce 

Make three quarts White Sauce II, scalding one or two 
small, grated onions in the milk. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 

Creamed Fish 
7 quarts cooked fish 6 tablespoons parsley 

4 quarts White Sauce II 2 teaspoons pepper 

Any kind of canned or cooked fresh fish may be used. 
Separate carefully into flakes, or cut in pieces; sprinkle 



FISH 87 

with salt. Boiled rice, samp, noodles, macaroni, or peas 
may be used in place of part of fish. Reheat in sauce. 
Serve on a bed, or in a border of potato, or on toast, or 
with baked potatoes. Sprinkle with parsley. 



Creamed Fish with Mushrooms 

5 quarts cooked fish 4 quarts White Sauce II 

2 or 3 quarts mushrooms 2 teaspoons salt 

or diced puff balls 2 teaspoons paprika 

Use any kind of cooked white fish. If it has not been 
salted in cooking, more salt will be required. Cut mush- 
rooms in small pieces, and saute in fat before making 
sauce. Remove from fat, and add with fish to sauce about 
twenty minutes before serving. Cut or flake fish carefully 
into inch pieces, and sprinkle with salt and paprika before 
adding to sauce. 

Creamed Fish with Green Peppers 

7 quarts cooked fish of 4 quarts White Sauce II 

any kind i teaspoon or more salt 

3 cups green peppers 2 teaspoons paprika 

Prepare as for Creamed Fish. Wash peppers, remove 
seeds, and parboil five minutes; then cut in half-inch 
pieces and add to fish. Serve as Creamed Fish. 

Creamed Fish with Cheese 

Prepare and serve as Creamed Fish. Just before adding 
fish to sauce, beat in half a pound or more grated cheese. 



88 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Fish 
Prepare fish as for Creamed Fish; plain, or witk 
peppers, cheese, or mushrooms. Turn into baking dishes, 
sprinkle lightly with soft buttered crumbs, and bake barely 
long enough to brown crumbs. 

Scalloped Fish with Rice 
4 quarts cooked rice 2 teaspoons pepper 

4 quarts cooked fish 2 teaspoons celery salt 

4 quarts White Sauce I 3 cups grated cheese 

Arrange rice, fish, and sauce in baking dishes in layers, 
having rice in bottom and sauce on top. Sprinkle with 
grated cheese, and bake about twenty minutes. Soft, 
buttered crumbs may be put on top. 

Creamed Salmon on Wafiles 
6 or 8 cans salmon 4 quarts White Sauce II 

Remove skin and bones from salmon, and separate into 
flakes or cut in inch pieces, being careful not to break 
fish more than necessary. As each can of fish is finished, 
sprinkle with half a teaspoon salt and dash of pepper. 
About fifteen minutes before serving, turn carefully into 
sauce, stirring once or twice with two-tined fork. Allow 
one-fourth waffle to each serving, cover with hot creamed 
salmon, and serve at once. 

Fish Timbale 
4^ quarts milk i tablespoon paprika 

^ cup fat 2 tablespoons salt 

3 cups soft crumbs 2 tbspns. grated onion 

2 cups barley flour or 12 eggs 

I cup cornstarch 4^ quarts cooked fish 



FISH 89 

Fish stock may be used in place of milk. Make a sauce 
of milk, fat, and flour, following directions for White 
Sauces. Add seasonings and crumbs ; cool. Add fish and 
well-beaten yolks, and fold in stiffly beaten whites. Bake 
in slow oven one and one-half hours, or until firm. Serve 
with or without Cheese Sauce. 

Fish Cakes 

4 quarts solidly packed i teaspoon pepper 

mashed potato 8 beaten eggs 

2 pounds salt codfish i cup milk 

Soak fish in cold water, drain; add boiling water, 
simmer an hour, or until fish shreds easily with fork. It 
should be very fine. 

Peel and boil six or seven pounds raw potatoes; put 
through ricer before measuring. Add fish, eggs, pepper, 
salt if needed, and milk. Beat well, and cool. Shape in flat 
cakes, roll in flour, and saute until brown in salt pork or 
other drippings. This mixture may be shaped in balls and 
fried in deep fat. 

Sardines on Toast 

Cut bread in half-inch slices, toast until nicely browned ; 
put in warm oven to finish drying. Dip slices in cold 
salted water, and arrange on well-oiled platters which can 
be put in oven. Lay sardines on toast, spread with dress- 
ing, and put in oven five minutes, or until very hot. 
Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve at once. 

For dressing, put together in a bowl one and one-half 
cups of oil from sardines, three teaspoons salt, two tea- 
spoons pepper, and one-fourth cup lemon juice or vinegar. 
Beat hard with Dover egg beater. 



go MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Shrimp Wiggle 

i^ cups fat I teaspoon pepper 

i^ cups rice flour 2 teaspoons Worcestershire 

4 quarts hot milk 2 tablespoons salt 

6 No. 2 cans shrimp 3 quarts cooked peas 

Three-fourths cup cornstarch may be used instead of 
rice flour. Make sauce of fat, flour, milk, and half the 
salt, following directions for White Sauces. Drain peas 
and shrimps, without removing from cans, then turn into 
large bowl, sprinkling with pepper and remaining salt. 
Add to sauce about fifteen minutes before serving. Add 
Worcestershire sauce, stirring very carefully and very 
little, in order not to break peas. Serve very hot on toast 
or heated crackers. Dip toast in cold salted water, set on 
edge in oiled pan, and put in oven to reheat. 



Finnan Haddie I 

12 pounds finnan haddie 4 quarts White Sauce II 
8 egg yolks 2 teaspoons paprika 

I pound cheese 6 tablespoons parsley 

Put fish in a large pan, cover with cold water, bring to 
boil, and simmer twenty minutes, or until flakes separate ; 
drain. Remove bones and skin, being careful not to break 
flakes. 

Stir grated cheese into sauce, and add part of sauce to 
well-beaten yolks, stirring constantly. Return to double 
boiler, add fish, and cook about ten minutes longer. A little 
Tabasco Sauce may be added if desired. 



FISH 91 

Finnan Haddie II 
12 pounds finnan haddie i cup green peppers 

4 quarts White Sauce II ^ cup pimento 

4 teaspoons lemon juice 12 hard-cooked eggs 

Prepare fish as in I. To make white sauce, cook chopped 
peppers in fat until softened; add flour, strained yolks, 
and gradually the hot milk ; cook thirty minutes in double 
boiler as usual, adding fish and coarsely chopped whites 
in time to heat thoroughly. Just before serving, add lemon 
juice, and more salt if needed. 

Swedish Salt Fish 
6 quarts potatoes sliced 6 beaten eggs 

2 pounds salt codfish i cup fat (optional) 

3 quarts hot milk i J teaspoons pepper 

Soak fish several hours, or over night ; drain, and shred 
fine. Peel, slice, and parboil potatoes about five minutes ; 
do not let them cook to pieces. Put potatoes, fat, pepper, 
and fish in casseroles, in alternate layers, having a layer 
of potato on bottom and top. Beat eggs, add milk, and 
pour over potatoes. Cover, and bake slowly one hour, or 
until potatoes are soft. More eggs may be used if desired, 
in which case more milk may be needed. 

Fish and Potato Scallop 
I peck potatoes i teaspoon pepper 

3 pounds salt codfish 6 tablespoons parsley 

4 quarts White Sauce II 6 tablespoons onion 

Peel and boil potatoes; add milk to make creamy, and 
salt to taste. Beat well. 

Soak codfish for several hours, drain ; add cold water 



92 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

to more than cover, simmer slowly until fish can be easily 
shredded with fork; add to white sauce. Put fish and 
parsley in bottom of baking dishes, cover with potato, 
piling it lightly and irregularly. Bake until potato is 
slightly browned. Finnan haddie, smoked salmon, or 
smoked halibut may be substituted for salt cod. 

New England Fish Dinner 

6 pounds salt codfish 3 quarts White Sauce II 

2 pounds salt pork 6 to 12 hard-cooked eggs 

Cut pork in half-inch cubes, cook slowly until crisp and 
golden brown ; remove from fat. Use pork drippings for 
sauce ; serve separately. 

Soak fish in plenty of cold water for several hours, 
drain. Add boiling water to cover, and simmer an hour, 
or until soft ; drain, remove to hot platters. Cover with 
diced pork and sliced eggs, and serve in a border of sliced 
beets. 

Savory Salt Codfish 

2 pounds salt codfish i teaspoon pepper 

4 quarts diced raw potato 4 quarts hot milk 
I pound fat salt pork 2 cups barley flour or 

6 or 8 egg yolks i cup cornstarch 

Salt to taste 

Cut codfish in half-inch pieces, cover with cold water, 
bring slowly to boil, and simmer an hour, or until soft; 
drain. 

Cut potatoes in half or three-fourths inch cubes, and 
steam until soft but not broken. 

Cut pork in half-inch cubes, cook until golden brown ; 
remove from fat. Pour off all but two cups of the pork 



FISH 93 

fat, add flour, and when smooth add milk, stirring con- 
stantly ; cook thirty minutes in double boiler. Add part of 
hot sauce to well-beaten yolks, stirring hard all the time, 
then put back into double boiler for five minutes. Add 
pork cubes, potato, and codfish. Serve very hot. 
Salt mackerel may be used in place of cod. 

Smoked Halibut k la Creme 

3 pounds smoked halibut i^ cups cut pimento 

4 quarts White Sauce II i teaspoon pepper 

Do not add salt to white sauce until just before serving. 
Scald halibut, drain ; cut in cubes or flakes, reheat in sauce. 
Serve in border of mashed potato, boiled rice, or samp. 

Any smoked fish may be cooked in same way : salmon, 
whitefish, cod, herring, or others. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel 

Soak six medium-sized salt mackerel, with flesh side 
down, in plenty of cold water forty-eight hours, changing 
water several times. Drain and wipe dry. Broil about 
twelve minutes, or until browned slightly. Remove to hot 
platters, spread with prepared butter, and garnish with 
parsley and slices of lemon or cucumber pickle. 

For the butter, cream one cup margarine and one 
tablespoon vinegar or lemon juice, using the acid that 
corresponds with garnish. If lemon is used, add grated 
rind. 

Baked Salt Mackerel 

Prepare fish as for broiling. Place skin side down in 
shallow pans, dredge each with a tablespoon barley flour ; 



94 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

add a spoonful margarine and one cup milk. Bake slowly 
thirty minutes, or until flakes separate. Serve in same dish 
if possible. Sprinkle with minced parsley. The fish may 
be heated sufficiently to remove bones before adding milk. 
Rich milk may be used and margarine omitted. 



Smoked Salmon en Casserole 

6 pounds smoked salmon 3 quarts canned peas 

6 cups sliced onion i cup fat 

6 quarts potato i cup flour 

2 teaspoons pepper i^ quarts hot milk 

Choose small potatoes ; peel, and cut in quarters before 
measuring. Cut salmon in half-inch pieces, or a little 
larger. Put potato in bottom of casseroles, add onion, fish, 
and peas. Add one cup boiling water to each casserole; 
cover tightly, and cook slowly forty-five minutes, or until 
potatoes are done. Make a sauce of fat, flour, and milk ; 
turn into casseroles, and cook fifteen minutes longer. Add 
pepper and salt to taste. If there is much liquid in cas- 
seroles, remove a little before adding sauce, or use less 
milk. 



MEATS 

The following recipes have been prepared to meet the 
wishes and requirements of the Food Administration. 
It has been the aim to have the maximum of variety and 
nutriment with the minimum of meat, especially beef 
and pork. The recipes call for the less desirable cuts of 
meat, and for relatively small amounts, so that it is pos- 
sible to have meat occasionally, even during periods of 
scarcity. 

Hamburg Roast 

ID pounds chopped beef i^ quarts water 
3 tablespoons salt ^ cup minced onion 

i lb. minced salt pork s eggs, well beaten 

i^ teaspoons pepper i cup barley flour 

3 cups dried crumbs 2 quarts strained tomato 

Put dried crumbs through coarse meat chopper, add 
water, and cook until pasty. Add meat, seasonings, beaten 
eggs, and more water and salt if needed. Shape in loaves, 
place in meat pans, and cook in hot oven till slightly brown. 
Then reduce heat and cook slowly, or remove to Aladdin 
oven; about an hour altogether will be required. Baste 
occasionally. Remove to platters. 

Turn one cup drippings from pan into saucepan, add 
flour, and strained tomato, stirring until thickened and 
well cooked. Season to taste. Add one quart or more 
cooked macaroni, spaghetti, or barley noodles, cut in half- 
inch pieces. Serve around loaf, or pass with meat. 

9S 



96 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Beth's Meat Loaf 

5 pounds beef or veal 8 eggs, well beaten 

5 pounds fresh pork 2 quarts strained tomato 

I quart cooked rice i quart dried crumbs or 

I cup minced onion 3 quarts mashed potato 

I teaspoon pepper 3 tablespoons salt 

Put meat through chopper, or have it ground at market. 
If mashed potato is used, one quart tomato will probably 
be sufficient. It should be just moist enough to pack well. 
Mix ingredients thoroughly, pack in brick-shaped pans. 
Bake two to three hours in range with slow heat, or in 
Aladdin oven. Baste occasionally if necessary. Serve 
with or without Brown Sauce. 

Hungarian Goulasch I 

12 pounds beef i cup sliced onion 

i^ cups drippings i cup celery 

1 quart boiling water 4 bay leaves 

if cups barley flour i teaspoon cloves 

2 quarts tomatoes i teaspoon peppercorns 

Use any inexpensive cut of meat; left-over roast or 
steak may be used also. Cut beef in two-inch pieces; 
wipe, roll in salted barley flour, and saute in hot drippings. 
Put in kettle with boiling water, cover, and cook slowly 
three hours, or until tender. Cook tomato and seasonings 
together slowly in covered saucepan fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, put through puree strainer ; add enough of the stock 
to make three quarts in all. Mix flour to smooth paste 
with a cup of cooled stock ; add to tomato mixture, stir- 
ring constantly. Boil five or ten minutes. Drain meat 
from stock, put in casseroles, add hot sauce, and reheat 
in oven if necessary. 



MEATS 97 

Hungarian Goulasch II 

8 to lo pounds veal from 7 pounds white turnips 

shoulder 2 bunches celery 

3 quarts boiling water 6 to 8 lbs. small onions 

2 tablespoons salt 12 pounds potatoes 

Chili powder to taste 2 cups barley flour 

Cut veal in two-inch pieces, brown in drippings or salt 
pork fat ; put in kettle with salt, chili powder, and boiling 
water. Cook slowly four hours or longer. Wash and cut 
celery in inch pieces, and add to veal about an hour before 
serving. Peel turnips, cut in halves lengthwise, and each 
half in slices; add to veal with celery. Yellow turnips 
require one and one-half hours. 

Cook onions as Boiled Onions. Potatoes should be about 
size of onions, or cut large ones in quarters or halves. 
Steam forty minutes, or until tender. 

Half an hour before serving, remove veal and vegetables 
to casseroles. Thicken stock with flour which has been 
stirred into drippings in which veal was browned ; season 
to taste. Add potatoes, onions, and hot sauce to meat 
and vegetables, and serve at once, with chopped parsley 
sprinkled over top. 

Danish Beefsteak 

6 or more lbs. raw beef 6 bunches celery 

2 tablespoons salt 2 cups drippings 

I tablespoon pepper i cup potato flour 

3 cups minced onion 4 teaspoons salt 

Chop round steak or any beef quite fine, add seasonings ; 
shape in balls about an inch and a half in diameter, saute 
in hot frying pans until well browned on all sides. 



98 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Wash celery, cut in inch pieces ; add four quarts boiling 
water, cook an hour, or until tender. Melt drippings, add 
flour, and three quarts celery water, stirring all the time. 
Boil five minutes, add celery and beef balls ; simmer fifteen 
minutes. If sauce is too thick, add more water. It should 
be thick enough to serve on plates. 

Beef Balls, Oriental Style 

8 lbs. chopped raw beef 3 quarts strained tomato 

4 pounds raw potatoes if cups barley flour 

6 eggs, beaten slightly i^ cups drippings 

I cup minced parsley i tablespoon salt 

3 tablespoons salt i teaspoon paprika 

Boil potatoes and put through ricer. Mix beef, potato, 
eggs, parsley, and three or more tablespoons salt. Shape 
in balls, or round, flat cakes about one inch or more in 
diameter. Roll in barley flour, saute until brown in drip- 
pings, remove to casseroles. Add fat to pan to make one 
and one-half cups ; stir in flour and add hot tomato, stir- 
ring constantly. Add paprika and one tablespoon or more 
salt ; add to meat balls, and cook fifteen or twenty minutes 
in oven. 

Spanish Tripe 

8 lbs. fresh boiled tripe 3 quarts strained tomato 

1 pt. chopped green pepper 3 tablespoons salt 

2 quarts chopped cabbage i teaspoon paprika 

I pint chopped onion i pound bacon diced 

Wash tripe, boil until tender ; cut in inch squares, put 
in casseroles. Sprinkle with barley flour, using one and 
one-half cups in all. Parboil cabbage five minutes ; drain, 



MEATS 99 

chop, and add to tripe. Strain tomatoes, add onion, 
pepper, salt, and paprika; boil two minutes, and add to 
tripe. Sprinkle diced bacon over top, and bake in moder- 
ate oven one hour. 

Baked Liver 

Pour boiling water over liver until surface is whitened ; 
drain. Dip in barley or rye flour, shaking off loose flour 
as it is lifted out. Put melted bacon fat in dripping pans 
to depth of one-half inch. Lay slices of liver in bottom of 
pans, sprinkle with salt and pepper ; bake twenty minutes, 
or until done, in hot oven. The liver should be cooked 
through, but not hard and dry. 

Beef Balls with Samp 

8 pounds chopped steak 2 tablespoons onion 

4 well-beaten eggs 4 teaspoons salt 

2 cps. gratedbread crumbs 4 teaspoons paprika 

Mix ingredients thoroughly, shape in balls size of Eng- 
lish walnuts; saute in drippings until slightly browned, 
and put in casseroles. Add sauce, made by cooking to- 
gether fifteen minutes the following ingredients : 

3 quarts strained tomato i cup sliced onion 

3 green peppers chopped i teaspoon black pepper 

I tablespoon salt ^ cup minced parsley 

Cook slowly forty-five minutes. To prepare samp, soak 
one quart in cold water twenty-four hours, put into double 
boiler or fireless cooker, and cook five or six hours ; drain, 
and add to beef mixture. The water from samp may be 
used in sauce. Macaroni or spaghetti may be used in place 
of samp. 



lOO MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Chili Con Carne 

12 pounds round steak i teaspoon cloves 

I cup drippings 6 to 12 red peppers 

I cup rice Chili powder to taste 

ij quarts boiling water 4 tablespoons salt 

12 large onions sliced 3 quarts cooked red beans 

Use freshly cooked or left-over beans. Any inexpensive 
cut of beef may be used in place of steak. Cut in inch 
pieces, saute until brown in hot frying pan, add water 
and rice, and cook slowly four hours, or until tender. 

Remove partitions and seeds from red peppers, parboil 
five minutes ; drain and chop. Mix half a cup barley flour 
with salt, and water to make smooth. Add flour, onions, 
peppers, cooked beans, cloves, and chili powder to beef. 
Real Chili Con Came calls for a dozen seeded and par- 
boiled red chilies, but Northern taste prefers less highly 
seasoned dishes. Cook thirty minutes longer on back of 
range, or in Aladdin oven, to prevent burning. Add more 
salt if needed. 

Spiced Veal Hearts 

15 large veal hearts i^ cups water 

I quart strong vinegar 2 tablespoons salt 

4 medium onions sliced 2 or 3 bay leaves 

4 medium carrots sliced 12 peppercorns 
8 cloves I quart boiling stock 

Wash hearts, and with scissors cut out veins and ar- 
teries. Place in stone or agate dish, and cover with mix- 
ture of vinegar, water, vegetables, and seasonings. Let 
stand forty-eight hours before cooking. Turn hearts 



MEATS lOI 

twice daily, keeping well covered in cold place. Drain and 
wipe dry. Stuff with: 

I quart small pieces dry 3 egg yolks 

bread i teaspoon pepper 

^ cup minced onion i tablespoon salt 

Soak bread in cold water until soft ; wring out in cheese- 
cloth. Mix ingredients, fill hearts; sew edges together 
sufficiently to keep in stuffing. Put in covered receptacle, 
add boiling stock, and cook in Aladdin or range oven 
three hours. 

Fresh pork, beef heart, rabbit, or any tough meat may 
be cooked in this way, by allowing four or five hours for 
cooking. 

Veal Hearts en Casserole 

15 large veal hearts 3 peppers or pimentos 

12 small onions 3 teaspoons whole spice 

1 cup bacon or pork fat i J quarts stock 

2 tablespoons salt i^ cups barley flour 

Wash hearts ; remove arteries and veins. Dredge with 
barley flour, and saute in hot frying pan in drippings until 
well browned. Be careful not to burn flour. Put hearts 
and fat from pan into tightly covered kettle; add sliced 
onions, peppers which have been seeded and sliced, season- 
ings, and stock. Cook slowly three hours in Aladdin or 
range oven. 

Pour off stock, and thicken with flour which has been 
made smooth with cold water. Slice hearts; pour over 
them the hot sauce, and serve at once. 



I02 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Veal Balls in Cream Sauce 

lo pounds shoulder veal | teaspoon cayenne 

1 pound salt pork 3 cups milk or stock 

2 quarts cracker crumbs 6 or 8 eggs 

I cup chopped onion 2 or 3 lemons 

3 tablespoons salt 3 quarts rich milk 
I teaspoon pepper i^ cups barley flour 

• Put veal, pork, crackers, and onions through meat 
chopper. Add seasonings, lemon juice, eggs, and milk. 
Mix well. Shape in balls about an inch in diameter, saute 
on all sides in drippings; they should be only slightly 
browned. Put balls in kettle with sauce ; cover, and simmer 
forty minutes or more in Aladdin or other oven. Have 
two or three asbestos mats or grates under kettle, to pre- 
vent burning. 

Sauce 

Add enough fat to pan in which balls were sauteed to 
make one cup or more. Add flour, and hot milk, stirring 
constantly. Stir till smooth and thickened ; season to taste. 

Brunswick Stew 

3 or more quarts veal 3 quarts corn 

I to 2 pounds salt pork 3 quarts tomatoes 

3 quarts sliced onion 3 cups boiling water 

6 quarts potatoes 2 cups barley flour 

3 tablespoons salt i teaspoon paprika 

Peel, slice, and parboil potatoes; chop pork; cut raw 
veal in small pieces. Put layer of pork in bottom of casse- 
roles, then veal and onion. Cover onion with potatoes, 
then add canned or fresh corn. Add one-half cup boiling 



MEATS 103 

water to each dish, cover closely, and cook about an hour. 
Strain tomatoes, and thicken with flour which has been 
made smooth with cold water ; add salt and paprika ; pour 
over contents of casseroles, and cook thirty minutes longer. 

Pork Stew 

2 shoulders pork 4 pounds sliced onion 
^ cup chopped parsley i quart celery 

3 quarts boiling water i teaspoon pepper 

4 pounds sliced carrot 4 tablespoons salt 
4 pounds sliced turnip 2 cups barley flour 

Cut pork in inch pieces or cubes; saute in hot frying 
pan, pouring off fat as it accumulates. Put pork in kettle, 
add water, cook two hours, and skim off fat. Add carrots 
and turnips, cook an hour ; add remaining vegetables and 
seasonings, cook thirty minutes or more. Remove pork 
and vegetables to casseroles; thicken liquor with flour 
which has been mixed till smooth with a little cooled 
liquor. If clear fat comes to top of sauce, it should be 
removed. Sprinkle with parslefy, and add to pork mixture. 

Serve with boiled potatoes and a green vegetable. 

Ragout of Veal, French Style 

16 pounds shoulder veal 8 bay leaves 

i^ cups drippings 2 quarts diced carrot 

2 quarts boiling water 6 pounds small onions 
J cup barley flour i cup chopped parsley 

8 garlic cloves 5 teaspoons or more salt 

Cut veal in pieces two or three inches square, brown 
in drippings in hot frying pan, remove to closely covered 
pot. Stir flour into fat left in pan; add boiling water, 



104 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

stirring constantly until smooth. Add carrots, onions, 
garlic cloves, bay leaves, salt, and hot sauce to veal. Cook 
slowly in Aladdin or other oven three hours, or until 
meat is very tender. Remove bay leaves and garlic, turn 
into casseroles, and sprinkle with parsley. Serve boiled 
rice or samp with it. 

When practicable, the carrots may be omitted, and two 
quarts chopped mushrooms added about half an hour 
before serving. Or add two quarts shelled peas about an 
hour before serving. 

Oxford Sausage 

4 pounds lean, fresh pork 2f tablespoons salt 

4 pounds veal or beef 2 teaspoons pepper 

4 pounds beef suet 2 or more teaspoons 
2 quarts soft, fine crumbs poultry seasoning 

Use any dark bread that contains little or no molasses. 
The crumbs should not be hard and dry. Put meat and 
suet through fine meat chopper, add other ingredients, 
and mix thoroughly. Pack well, and set in cool place if 
not used at once. Shape in small, flat cakes, as thick on 
edge as in center. Cook in hot frying pan or broiler until 
well browned on both sides. 

Pork Pie 

12 to i6 pounds lean, 3 tablespoons salt 

fresh pork 2 teaspoons pepper 

li cups minced parsley 6 tablespoons catsup 

6 medium onions 3 quarts water 

Cut meat in two-inch pieces, add onions and water, 
and cook slowly two hours. Add salt, pepper, catsup, and 



MEATS 105 

parsley, and remove meat to baking dishes. Skim off any 
clear fat on top of stock, and thicken stock with one and 
one-half cups barley flour mixed until smooth with a little 
cooled stock. Add to meat to come nearly to top ; reserve 
remainder to pass with pie. Cover meat with any Meat 
Pie Crust, and bake thirty minutes or more. Be sure that 
crust is done. If raw meat is cooked in casseroles instead 
of in a large receptacle, sliced raw potatoes may be added 
alternately with meat. Or partly cooked potatoes may be 
added when the crust is put on. Veal or mutton may 
be used in place of pork. 

Cuban Pie 

Put into baking dishes a layer of cooked rice or hominy ; 
sprinkle over it bits of cooked bacon, cover with layer of 
coarsely cut chicken, or chicken and veal; add chicken 
gravy to moisten well, then a layer of fresh or canned 
sweet corn seasoned with pepper and salt. Finish with a 
regular pie crust, or with one of the following Meat Pie 
Crusts. Serve extra chicken gravy or sauce with pie. 

Meat Pie Crust I 

I J quarts pastry flour 4 teaspoons salt 

§ quart corn flour or 5 tbspns. baking powder 

white corn meal 3^ cups water, or enough 
f to I cup shortening to make soft dough 

In all biscuit and similar doughs, the amount of liquid 
required varies slightly, so that at the last it should be 
added gradually, in order that the dough shall not be too 
soft to handle. In all cases, however, it should be as soft 
as possible. Sift dry ingredients, rub or cut in shortening. 



I06 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

add milk or water, roll to about one-half inch thickness ; 
cut in small rounds, or in sheet to fit top of baking dish. 
In latter case, cut an inch hole in center for escape of 
steam. Bake thirty minutes or more in hot oven. Four 
and three- fourths cups barley flour may be used in place 
of pastry flour. 

Meat Pie Crust II 

2 qts. barley or oat flour i cup shortening 

4 teaspoons salt 3^ cups milk, or milk and 

J cup baking powder water mixed 

Extra wetting will probably be needed if oat flour is 
used. Mix, cut, and bake as Meat Pie Crust I. 

Meat Pie Crust III 

2 quarts barley or pastry i J cups shortening 

flour J cup baking powder 

I quart rice or 3 to 3^ cups milk 

f quart potato flour 5 teaspoons salt 

Water may be used in place of milk. Cornstarch may 
be used instead of potato or rice flour. Mix as soft as 
possible. Make and bake as Meat Pie Crust I. 

Meat Pie Crust IV 

6 pounds peeled, raw 6 tablespoons fat 

potatoes I tablespoon salt 

3 cups pastry flour i tbspn. baking powder 

Boil potatoes, put through ricer ; add salt, fat, and flour 
which has been sifted with baking powder. Knead in the 
flour ; it will be very stiff. Roll to one inch or less in thick- 



MEATS 10/ 

ness, cut to fit top of pie, with a hole in center, and bake 
thirty minutes, or until done, in hot oven. The crust will 
be moist but tender. 

Persian Pilaf 

8 pounds lamb or mutton 2 tablespoons salt or more 

5 pounds onions sliced i teaspoon pepper 
I quart rice ^ teaspoon cloves 

ij quarts water i teaspoon cinnamon 

3 quarts strained tomato J cup chopped parsley 

Cut meat in inch pieces, saute in drippings in hot frying 
pan until well browned, and remove to kettle. Cook onions 
in same pan slowly until slightly browned, and add to lamb. 
Wash rice, add boiling water; boil one or two minutes, 
and add to meat with tomato and seasonings. Cook 
slowly two or three hours — three hours if mutton. If too 
dry, add more water. The liquid should be nearly or quite 
absorbed by rice. Sprinkle with parsley. If preferred, 
cloves and cinnamon may be omitted, and two cups 
chopped carrot and three tablespoons horse radish used 
instead. 

Scalloped Lamb 

6 quarts cooked lamb, or i cup barley flour 

lamb and other meat i^ tablespoons salt 

3 quarts strained tomato I teaspoon pepper 

i^ quarts brown gravy ^ cup chopped parsley 

Chop meat before measuring. Mix flour with season- 
ings, stir until smooth with a little cold tomato juice ; add 
boiling tomato, brown gravy, lamb, and parsley. Pour 
into baking dishes, sprinkle with soft, dark bread crumbs ; 
bake until crumbs are crisp. Crumbs may be omitted. 



I08 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 



Scotch Hot-Pot 



i6 pounds shoulder or i bunch celery 

neck of mutton ^ cup chopped parsley 

5 pounds carrots 2 teaspoons pepper 

5 pounds white turnips 3 tablespoons salt 

3 pounds onions i pint pearl barley 

Cut mutton in inch pieces, brown in oiled, hot frying 
pan, remove to closely covered kettle. Put three quarts 
boiling water in frying pan, add washed barley, boil five 
minutes ; add to mutton. Add vegetables and seasonings, 
and cook slowly three hours or more. Add more water 
if needed ; the barley should thicken it to the consistency 
of brown gravy. Add more salt, also, if needed. 

Lamb, Oriental Style 

8 pounds shoulder of lamb 4 pounds fresh string 
or mutton beans 

1 cup chopped onion i teaspoon pepper 

2 quarts broth or water 3 tablespoons salt 
I quart strained tomato i^ cups barley flour 

Have meat boned and cut in two-inch pieces. Brown 
in hot, oiled frying pan, put in casseroles or tightly covered 
kettle. Wash beans, cut in inch pieces, add to meat. Add 
onion, tomato, broth, and salt; bring to boil, and cook 
two hours, or until lamb and beans are tender. If mutton 
is used, it is well to cook it an hour before adding beans. 
If canned beans are used, drain four quarts, and add after 
thickening. Mix flour until smooth with cold broth, add 
to stew ; boil five minutes, stirring constantly. If too thick, 
add more broth. Serve with barley or com biscuit, or 
with barley dumplings. 



MEATS 109 

Chicken k la King 

6 quarts or more cooked i pint green peppers 

fowl cut in pieces J cup chopped parsley 

4 quarts rich broth i quart celery 

I cup potato flour 2 teaspoons paprika 

I cup fat Salt to taste 

Cook fowl, without cutting, in salted water, until quite 
tender; remove from liquor, and let get cold. Remove 
meat carefully from bones, and cut in two-inch pieces; 
they need not be regular in shape, but should be neatly cut. 
Put bones back in stock and simmer one or two hours; 
strain, and remove fat. Cream together fat and flour, 
add hot broth and seasoning, stirring all the time; boil 
five minutes. Add meat without stirring. Cut celery in 
inch pieces, boil thirty minutes ; drain, and add to sauce. 
Wash peppers, remove seeds, parboil fifteen minutes; 
drain, cut in small pieces, and add. Keep mixture over 
hot water until well heated through. Just before serving, 
stir carefully to mix ingredients. The pieces of fowl and 
vegetables should be unbroken. Serve in border of boiled 
rice. Sprinkle with parsley. 

Scalloped Chicken 

4 quarts chopped chicken 4 quarts White Sauce II 

4 quarts canned corn or chicken gravy 

I teaspoon pepper i tablespoon salt 

Put chicken and corn in baking dishes in alternate 
layers, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Add sauce, lifting 
chicken with fork to let sauce moisten all parts. Sprinkle 
with soft buttered crumbs, bake about forty minutes. 



no MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Maryland Chicken 

Dress, singe, and clean roasting chickens ; there should 
be about twenty-five pounds after they are dressed. Cut 
in pieces for serving. Roll in salted barley flour, saute in 
pork fat or cooking oil till golden brown ; remove to kettle. 
Add one and one-half cups barley or bread flour to fat in 
frying pan, stirring while it browns. Add to three quarts 
hot milk, stirring till smooth; cook fifteen minutes in 
double boiler, add one tablespoon salt and one teaspoon 
pepper. Turn sauce over chicken, and simmer from 
thirty to sixty minutes, according to age of chicken. Cook 
in oven, with two or three asbestos mats or grates under 
kettle to prevent burning. Garnish with chopped parsley, 
and serve with boiled rice. 

To Try Out Fat 

Cut suet, tallow, or trimmings of fresh fat pork in small 
pieces, or put through meat chopper. Soak mutton or 
chicken fat for twenty-four hours in cold salted water, 
changing water several times to remove the objectionable 
flavor; drain well before heating. Cook slowly in oven 
or double boiler for several hours. When fat is melted, 
strain through cheesecloth, pressing to obtain all the fat. 
Keep in cool place. 

The addition of one part cottonseed oil to three parts 
strained fat makes a good cooking fat. 

Save the scraps or crackling to use in Suet puddings, 
gingerbread, or hash. 

To Deodorize and Clarify Fats 

Any liquor in which meat has been boiled should be 
allowed to stand until the fat has risen to the top and 



MEATS III 

solidified. Remove fat to saucepan, scraping off sediment 
or particles of meat that cling to the bottom, then clarify 
and deodorize by any of the following methods : 

Add about a teaspoon soda to each quart of fat, barely 
cover with cold water, and cook very slowly until the 
water has evaporated ; add soda and a sliced raw potato, 
omitting water, and cook slowly until all bubbling ceases ; 
put a piece of charcoal in pan with the fat, and heat until 
there is no bubbling; add half a cup mild vinegar to a 
quart or more fat, and cook slowly until it has evaporated. 
Strain and cool. A mixture of several kinds of fat may 
be treated, instead of taking them separately. 

Savory Fat 

4 pounds fat : sausage, i tablespoon salt 

mutton, ham, veal 4 sliced apples 

I cup chopped onion i tablespoon sage 

If fat is salty, omit part or all of salt. If preferred, a 
mixture of sage, thyme, and marjoram may be used. 
Cook ingredients together slowly until soft ; strain, and let 
harden. Use in cooking meats, vegetables, soups, hash, 
and gravies whenever a highly seasoned dish is wanted. 

Bacon should be kept separate, and used in dishes re- 
quiring bacon flavor. 



MEAT SAUCES 

White Sauce I 

Make as White Sauce II, using double the amount of 
milk, or half the amount of flour and fat. This sauce is 
suitable for cream soups or for certain scalloped dishes — 



112 MOKE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

scallops that are made with some bread, cereal, or other 
thickening agent, in combination with meats or vegetables. 



White Sauce II 

With Barley Flour 

i^ cups oil or meat ^ teaspoon pepper 

drippings 2 quarts hot milk 

I tablespoon salt i^ cups barley flour 

Heat milk in double boiler. Cook flour in fat for two 
or three minutes, but be careful not to burn mixture. 
Remove from fire, add hot milk, stirring constantly until 
smooth and thickened. Do not return to fire, but cook in 
double boiler, thirty minutes or more, with water boiling 
underneath. Stir occasionally. Add seasonings. Use for 
highly seasoned sauces, such as curry ; for vegetables with 
distinctive flavor, like tomatoes; or for such meats as 
bacon, ham, or sausage. 

With Starchy Flours 

J to I cup butter substi- ^ teaspoon pepper 

tute of any kind i cup rice floiu" or 

1 tablespoon salt ^ cup potato flour or 

2 quarts hot milk ^ cup cornstarch 

Use equal proportions of flour and fat. Heat milk in 
double boiler. Stir fat until creamy, add flour, and stir 
until smooth. Add hot milk, stirring constantly until 
smooth and partly thickened. Cook forty to forty-five 
minutes in double boiler, stirring occasionally. Add salt, 
and pepper if desired. Do not cook fat and flour directly 
over fire at all, as there is danger of the formation of 



MEATS 113 

curdy lumps, which are difficult, sometimes impossible, 
to remove. Use for potato, celery, cucumber, or any meat 
or vegetable of mild flavor, or for cereals. 

White Sauce III 

Make as White Sauce II, using two and one-half times 
the amount of flour and butter substitute. This is a very 
stiff sauce, used chiefly for croquettes. 

Brown Almond Sauce 

Blanch one-half pound or more almonds, and cut in 
eighths. Cook until well browned in small amount of oil 
or other fat. Drain, and add to two quarts White Sauce II. 
Be careful not to burn fat, and use any that is left in 
making the sauce. Peanuts may be used in place of 
almonds, but they should be cooked in fat only long enough 
to heat them well, unless they have not been roasted. 

Plain Brown Sauce 

i| cups drippings 2 quarts stock or water 

2 small sliced onions 2 teaspoons salt 

i^ quarts barley flour ^ teaspoon pepper 

Cook onions and drippings together until very dark 
brown, as dark as can be without burning. Add flour, and 
cook until browned; add water or stock, stirring until 
smooth and thickened. Let boil five minutes, and add 
seasonings. If flour is well browned, a good sauce may 
be made without stock or kitchen bouquet. If not of good 
color or flavor, add kitchen bouquet or vegetable extract 
as needed. 



114 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Parsley Sauce 

i^ cups melted butter or f teaspoon pepper 

butter substitute -J cup minced parsley 

I tablespoon salt J cup vinegar 

If vinegar is very strong, it may be necessary to use 
less. If butter substitute is used, melt over hot water, 
add remaining ingredients in order given, and serve hot 
on broiled fish or boiled potatoes. 

Brown Gravy for Roasts 
li cups drippings 2^ quarts boiling water 

i^ cups barley flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Brown flour slightly in oven, stirring often. Pour off 
clear fat from roast, and save for other purposes. Turn 
the brown drippings in bottom of meat pans into large 
saucepan; add browned flour. Stir until smooth; add 
water, stirring constantly. Boil five minutes; season to 
taste. If the gravy is not of a rich brown color, add 
kitchen bouquet or vegetable extract as needed. 

Mushroom Sauce 
Chop one pint or more mushrooms, saute in drippings 
one or two minutes; drain, and add to Brown Gravy or 
Plain Brown Sauce. If dried mushrooms are used, soak 
twenty- four hours or longer before chopping. Use water 
in which they are soaked to make sauce. 

Fish Sauce 

I cup margarine 2 teaspoons salt 

1 cup rice flour or i teaspoon pepper 

i cup potato flour 6 hard-cooked eggs or 

2 quarts fish stock i cup chopped pickle 



MEATS 115 

Melt fat, add flour, stir until smooth ; add boiling stock 
or water, stirring constantly. Add salt and pepper, boil 
five minutes; add sliced or chopped eggs, or chopped 
cucumber pickles. 

Celery Sauce 

1 cup margarine i pint milk or cream 

2 teaspoons salt 2 cups cut celery 
^ teaspoon pepper i cup rice flour or 

I quart chicken stock ^ cup potato flour 

I pint celery water 2 tablespoons parsley 

Cut celery in quarter-inch pieces, boil twenty minutes 
in three cups water ; drain, and reserve water for sauce. 
Melt fat, add flour, stir until smooth; add boiling stock 
and celery water, boil five minutes. Add seasonings and 
cream, bring to boil again ; add parsley, and serve. 

Cheese Sauce 

Add one quart grated cheese to White Sauce II, adding 
also one teaspoon mustard and one teaspoon paprika 
which have been mixed with salt and pepper. 

Savory Sauce 

I pound salt pork or 2 qts. strained tomato 

bacon i cup barley flour 
^ cup chopped onion f teaspoon paprika 

^ cup chopped parsley Salt to taste 

Cut pork or bacon in tiny dice, cook until crisp and 
slightly colored; add onion, and cook very slowly until 
softened. Add flour, stir until well blended, then add 



Il6 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

tomato; stir until smooth and thickened. It should boil 
four or five minutes. Serve with or without straining. 

Italian Sauce 

2 qts. strained tomato or i cup chopped turnip 

part beef or chicken i cup chopped parsley 

stock i cup green pepper 

I cup chopped onion i cup oil or drippings 

4 cup chopped carrot i cup barley flour 

2 teaspoons salt 

Cook chopped vegetables in drippings very slowly for 
fifteen or twenty minutes ; skim or strain out, and reserve 
for soup. Stir flour into fat, add hot, strained tomato, and 
boil five minutes, stirring constantly. Add salt, and serve. 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

1 4 cups margarine 3 tablespoons finely 

I tablespoon salt chopped parsley 

f teaspoon pepper i cup vinegar 

Cream margarine ; add salt, pepper, parsley, and vinegar 
very slowly. 

Mint Jelly 

4 tablespoons gelatine | cup vinegar 

1 cup cold water ^ cup lemon juice 
i| quarts boiling water i J cups sugar 

2 bunches mint Green coloring 

The proportions of vinegar and lemon juice may be 
varied to suit convenience. Soak gelatine in cold water 
twenty minutes. Wash mint and chop fine; add boiling 
water in which sugar has been dissolved, let stand in warm 



MEATS 117 

place an hour. Add gelatine, lemon juice, and vinegar, 
and enough green coloring to make a delicate green. Rinse 
molds in cold water, add strained jelly, and put in cold 
place to stiffen. Serve with roast lamb or lamb chops. 

Pimento Sauce 

Add one or more cans strained pimento to two quarts 
White Sauce II, omitting an equal quantity of milk. 

Peanut Butter Sauce 

f cup peanut butter 2 quarts stock 

^ cup cornstarch 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix cornstarch to a paste with an equal quantity of cold 
stock. Stir peanut butter until smooth with a little 
cold stock, then add remainder boiling hot, and combine 
with cornstarch. Boil five minutes or more; add salt, 
and pepper if desired. 

Prepared Mustard 

6 tablespoons mustard 2 well-beaten eggs 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 cups strong vinegar 

2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons oil 

Mix dry ingredients ; add eggs. Add vinegar gradually, 
cook over hot water about eight minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Cool, then beat in olive oil. Will keep indefinitely. 
One teaspoon turmeric may be added if desired. 



LUNCHEON DISHES 

CEREALS AND MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Baked Samp and Cheese 

1 J quarts samp 3 quarts White Sauce II 

5 quarts water i to 2 pounds cheese 

2 tablespoons salt i teaspoon paprika 

Soak samp in water over night; in morning bring to 
boiling point, add salt, and cook several hours in tireless 
cooker or Aladdin oven. The samp should be soft and 
water absorbed. Turn into baking dishes, add sauce, to 
which grated cheese has been added, and bake from twenty 
to thirty minutes in moderate oven. Sprinkle with paprika, 
and serve. Fine hominy or hulled com may be used in 
same way ; also boiled noodles, spaghetti, or macaroni. 



Creole Rice or Samp 

3 qts. strained tomato 2 tablespoons salt 

6 quarts hot boiled rice i teaspoon paprika 
I quart sliced onion ^ cup minced parsley 

f cup drippings i pound grated cheese 

Cook onion slowly in drippings until soft but not brown ; 
add tomato, parsley, salt, and pepper, then hot boiled rice 
or samp. Left-over rice may be used, by separating 
kernels with fork before adding. Put in baking dishes, 
sprinkle with cheese, and put in oven to melt cheese. 

118 



LUNCHEON DISHES II9 

Rissoto 

I J quarts rice 2 cups chopped onion 

5 quarts boiling water 2 cups oil or bacon fat 

2 tablespoons salt 1 pound grated cheese, or 

2 teaspoons paprika more if desired 

Cook onion and rice slowly in fat until well browned, 
stirring often to prevent burning. Remove scorched 
particles of onion, if there are any. Add water and salt, 
and cook an hour in double boiler without stirring. If 
liked moist, use six instead of five quarts water. When 
about half done add cheese, stirring carefully with long- 
handled fork, to prevent breaking. 

Samp, Garden Style 

I quart samp | teaspoon pepper 

3^ quarts water 2 or 3 pints cooked peas 

i^ tablespoons salt i quart diced carrot 

3 quarts strained tomato i pint sliced onion 

f cup cornstarch ^ cup minced parsley 

i^ cups drippings 2 tablespoons salt 

Soak samp in water over night; in morning, add salt, 
and bring to boil; cook several hours in fireless cooker 
or Aladdin oven. Melt half the drippings, add onion, and 
cook slowly until softened; add diced cooked carrots, 
and continue cooking until fat is absorbed. Yellow turnip 
may be used in place of carrot, using left-over or freshly 
cooked. Rub remaining fat and cornstarch together, add 
hot strained tomato ; boil three minutes, stirring constantly. 
Add vegetables and seasonings, and cook over hot water 
until well heated. Pile samp in center of platters, pour 
sauce over, and serve very hot. 



I20 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Creamed Samp 

Soak six cups samp in five quarts cold water over night. 
In morning, add two tablespoons salt, bring to boiling 
point, and cook in fireless cooker or Aladdin oven from 
four to six hours ; drain if necessary. Add two quarts 
White Sauce II, and serve. 

Samp with Tomato 

1 1 quarts samp 3 quarts strained tomato 
5 quarts water ^ cup sugar 

2 tablespoons salt i tablespoon salt 
f cup cornstarch or ^ teaspoon pepper 

li cups barley flour i^ cups drippings 

Add boiling water to samp and salt; cook in fireless 
cooker or Aladdin oven six hours, or until soft. Or soak 
over night, then bring to boil and cook until soft. 

Melt drippings, add flour, and, when smooth, the 
strained tomato, sugar, and seasonings. Cook until thick- 
ened, stirring constantly; add samp, and mix well. Turn 
into casseroles, and bake thirty minutes. Boiled and 
drained macaroni, spaghetti, or rice may be used in this 
way. 

Spaghetti or Samp with Ham 

2 quarts spaghetti or 3 quarts strained tomato 

li quarts samp i§ tablespoons salt 

li cups drippings i teaspoon pepper 

i cup minced onion i quart grated cheese 

ij cups barley flour 2 tspns. Worcestershire 

Cook spaghetti, following usual directions for boiling 
macaroni. If samp is used, cook it in five quarts boiling 



LUNCHEON DISHES 121 

water, with two tablespoons salt, for five or six hours, 
as for Samp with Tomato. 

Melt drippings, cook onion in it slowly until soft; add 
flour, seasonings, and hot tomato. Stir until thickened, 
boil three minutes, stirring occasionally. Add cheese and 
spaghetti, being careful not to break latter. Pile in center 
of platters, garnish with strips of broiled ham. Ham fat 
may be used in sauce. 

Macaroni Timbale 

i^ pounds macaroni i or more pounds cheese 

12 beaten eggs 3^ quarts milk 

4 teaspoons salt 6 tbspns. barley flour 

2 teaspoons paprika 6 tablespoons fat 

Cook macaroni without breaking more than necessary, 
following usual directions for boiling, then cut in one- 
fourth inch pieces. Melt fat, add flour, and stir into 
hot milk, stirring until smooth. Add macaroni, cheese, 
seasonings. Cool, and add to well-beaten eggs. Turn into 
oiled baking dishes, set in pans of hot water or on asbestos 
mats; bake sixty minutes or longer in very slow oven. 
Serve at once with White Sauce II or Plain Tomato Sauce. 
Boiled samp may be used in place of macaroni. It should 
be drained and the water used in the sauce. 



Barley Noodles 

Beat four eggs slightly, add two teaspoons salt, and 
barley flour to make stiff dough. Knead on slightly floured 
board, roll very thin, let stand half an hour or so to dry. 
Roll the dough like jelly roll, cut off in one-fourth inch 
slices, then unroll. Cover with cheesecloth and keep in 



122 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

warm, dry place to dry. When thoroughly dried, it is 
ready to use, or to be packed in tight jars for keeping. 

Corn Noodles 

4 eggs, beaten slightly i^ cups white corn meal 

2 teaspoons salt i J cups wheat flour 

Barley flour may be used in place of wheat flour. Knead 
on floured board, using more flour if necessary. Roll, dry, 
and cook as other noodles. 

Konkee Noodle 

3 or 4 cups cut onions ij cups drippings 

5 pounds round steak or 2 cups barley flour 

any tough beef 2^ tablespoons salt 

3 quarts strained tomato i^ teaspoons paprika 

I quart boiling water 3 quarts noodles or more 

Cut steak in half-inch pieces or cubes. Brown it, a little 
at a time, in a very hot frying pan which has been rubbed 
with fat. Put into kettle with boiling water ; cook slowly 
three hours. 

Cut onions in slices, and cook very slowly in drippings 
until soft ; add flour, stir until smooth. Add hot, strained 
tomato, stirring all the time until it boils. Cook noodles 
in plenty of boiling salted water until tender, but not 
broken ; drain, and add to meat with seasonings and tomato 
mixture. Cook fifteen minutes longer. 

Noodles in Cheese Sauce 

Boil noodles until tender in salted water ; drain. Reheat 
in White Sauce II, to which grated cheese has been added. 



LUNCHEON DISHES I23 

OUapodrida 

6 to 8 quarts cooked rice 2 cups drippings 

i^ quarts sliced onion 2 to 4 cans pimento 

i^ quarts grated cheese 2 tablespoons salt 

4 quarts strained toinato 2 teaspoons paprika 

One and one-half quarts uncooked rice are required. 
Cook as Boiled Rice, reserving rice water for soup or 
bread making. 

Melt drippings, add onion, and cook until slightly 
yellowed. Cover bottom of casseroles with rice, sprinkle 
with onion, cheese, chopped pimento, tomato, salt, and 
paprika; repeat, having the top layer of cheese. Cover, 
and bake an hour in moderate oven, adding rice water if 
too dry. Uncover for a few minutes at the last, in order 
to brown slightly. 

Rice Rarebit 

4 to 6 quarts boiled rice 4 teaspoons salt 

f cup potato flour 2 teaspoons paprika 

2 cups oleo or oil i^ teaspoons mustard 

I pound or more cheese 4 quarts hot milk 

Mix flour and seasonings, add to fat, and stir until 
smooth. Add hot milk, stirring constantly until smooth ; 
cook thirty minutes in double boiler. Use one quart raw 
rice, if it is to be added to sauce ; one and one-half quarts, 
if rice is to be spread on platters and sauce poured over it. 
Cook as Boiled Rice. About ten minutes before serving, 
add grated cheese to sauce ; stir until smooth. Add rice, 
stirring very carefully with a long, two-tined fork, so as 
not to break kernels. Serve on hot toasted crackers or 
unsweetened oatmeal wafers. Or spread rice on platters, 



124 MORE RECIPES FOR TIFTY 

and cover with hot sauce. Part of paprika may be reserved 
to sprinkle over top. 



Corn Meal Mush as a Vegetable 

i^ quarts com meal 2 tablespoons salt 

4^ quarts water i teaspoon paprika 

Mix corn meal, salt, and paprika with enough cold water 
to make smooth. Bring remaining water to boil, add meal 
mixture ; boil one or two minutes, and cook three hours 
in double boiler, or six to ten hours in fireless cooker. 
Serve in following ways: 

Serve hot mush with fried fish in place of potato. 

Mold in long, narrow pans, cut in slices, and cook in 
drippings in hot oven or on griddle. Serve with roast pork 
or chicken. 

Turn into shallow pans to depth of an inch ; mold. Cut 
in blocks about one and one-half inches wide by two and 
one-half long, dip in egg and crumbs as for croquettes, 
and fry in deep fat. Serve with pork, chicken, or other 
roast meat. 

Tamale Pie 

4 quarts water i pint chopped onion 

2 quarts corn meal i pt. chopped sweet pepper 

2 tablespoons salt 5 teaspoons or more salt 

2 teaspoons pepper 6 tablespoons oil 

3 quarts chopped meat i cup Worcestershire sauce 
I quart strained tomato if desired 

Make corn meal mush of first four ingredients. Heat 
oil, add pepper and onion; cook until brown but not 
burned. Add tomato, meat, salt, and Worcestershire 



LUNCHEON DISHES I25 

sauce if desired ; mix thoroughly. Put layer of mush in 
bottom of baking dishes, then layer of tomato mixture; 
cover with remaining mush. Bake an hour, and serve with 
Savory or Italian Sauce. 



Baked Polenta 

2^ quarts corn meal 2§ tablespoons salt 

6 quarts water 4 quarts brown gravy 

Mix corn meal with two quarts of cold water; bring 
remainder to boil, and add to com meal. Add salt, and 
stir until the mixture boils, then cook four or more hours 
in double boiler or tireless cooker. Rinse shallow, oblong 
pans in cold water, turn in mush to depth of one inch, 
and let stand until cold and stiff. Cut in cubes, turn lightly 
into baking dishes, add gravy, and cook until heated 
through. Small cubes of left-over meat may be added. 



Molded Polenta 

24 quarts corn meal 2f tablespoons salt 

6 quarts water i or more pounds cheese 

Cook first three ingredients as in Baked Polenta. Add 
cheese, and stir until melted. Turn into round or melon 
molds that have been rinsed in cold water. In cold weather, 
let stand until molded, but not cold; in hot weather, let 
stand until cold. Turn out on platters, garnish with crisp 
bacon or parsley. Serve with Plain Tomato or Savory 
Sauce. 



126 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Spanish Polenta 

2| quarts corn meal 3 cups minced green pepper 

6 quarts water ij cups oil or fat 

2% tablespoons salt i\ cups barley flour 

4 quarts strained tomato 2 tablespoons salt 

1 4 quarts minced onion i or 2 quarts grated cheese 

Cook first three ingredients as in Baked Polenta. Turn 
into shallow pans which have been rinsed in cold water, 
to the depth of an inch. Let stand all day or over night, 
cut in cubes, turn into baking dishes. 

Melt fat, add pepper and onion, and cook very slowly 
until soft. Add flour, mix well ; add hot tomato, stirring 
constantly. Bring to boil ; add cheese and salt ; pour over 
cut mush. Bake about thirty minutes. 



Scotch Scrapple 

5 pounds beef or mutton 2 quarts rolled oats 

5 quarts water i teaspoon pepper 

5 teaspoons salt i teaspoon paprika 

Use any cut of meat suitable for boiling. Wipe thor- 
oughly, add boiling water, bring to boiling point, skim if 
needed, and simmer until meat is very tender; strain off 
liquor and let get cold ; remove fat. Put three and three- 
fourths quarts stock in kettle, adding water to make up 
the quantity if necessary. Add salt and rolled oats, boil 
five minutes, and cook one hour or more in double boiler 
or in fireless cooker. Chop meat quite fine, add to oat- 
meal with pepper, paprika, and any desired poultry or 
spiced seasoning to taste ; heat well, and turn into bread 
pans which have been dipped in cold water. Chill, cut in 



LUNCHEON DISHES I27 

slices, dredge with corn meal or barley flour. Put one 
or two tablespoons drippings in frying pan, and when hot, 
cook scrapple until well browned on each side. Cook 
rather slowly, so that a thick crust can form without 
burning. The slices may be laid in pans and cooked in 
oven, if preferred. 

New England Scrapple 

4i quarts water i teaspoon pepper 

I J quarts corn meal I teaspoon or more sage 

2 tablespoons salt 2 or 3 quarts minced meat 

Use any left-over meat and yellow granulated or home- 
ground meal. Mix meal with one quart cold water. Bring 
remaining water to a boil, add meal, and boil two or three 
minutes. Add meat and seasonings, and cook three hours 
in double boiler, or all day in fireless cooker. Mold in 
bread tins which have been dipped in cold water, cut 
in half-inch slices, and saute in drippings until brown 
and crusty on both sides. Sausage may be used in place 
of minced meat, but the sage should be omitted. 

Lima Bean Loaf 

2^ quarts Lima, pea, or i| cups oil or fat 

yellow-eyed beans 3 tablespoons salt 

3 cups chopped onion 2 teaspoons mustard 
3 quarts mashed potato 5 teaspoons paprika 

8 eggs, beaten well 2 teaspoons sage (optional) 

Soak beans over night, drain; cover with cold water, 
bring to boil, cook slowly until soft, drain ; put through 
meat chopper. Cook onion in fat until softened but not 
browned. Pack potato well in measuring. Mix ingredi- 



128 



MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 



ents ; add bean water to make moist, but not at all sloppy. 
Bake in casseroles in slow oven about an hour. Serve 
with Italian Sauce. 



Lentil Loaf 



2^ quarts lentils 3 

2 quarts soft crumbs or 2 

2 quarts mashed potato 3 

i| cups drippings i 



cups chopped onion 
cups chopped pimento 
tablespoons or more salt 
teaspoon paprika 



8 to 10 eggs, beaten well ^ cup chopped parsley 

Soak lentils over night ; drain. Cover with cold water, 
bring to boil, and cook gently two hours, or until soft; 
drain, and reserve water. Cook onion slowly in drippings 
until softened and yellowed. Mix ingredients well, adding 
mace or nutmeg if desired. Add bean water to make the 
mixture too moist to shape in loaves. Bake in casseroles 
an hour or more; in ramekins, about twenty minutes. 
Serve with or without Plain Tomato or Italian Sauce. 



Nut Loaf 




quarts hot boiled rice 


2 


quarts milk or more 


quarts cottage cheese 


8 


eggs 


cup chopped onion 


4 


tablespoons salt 


quarts chopped nuts 


2 


teaspoons pepper 



2 quarts stale bread 
i cup drippings 



i cup minced parsley 
I tablespoon sage 



Use old bread; break in pieces, and soak in milk half 
an hour, or until soft; beat well. Beat eggs sepewately. 
Mix all ingredients except egg whites ; the mixture should 
be too soft to shape in loaf, but not sloppy. Beat well. 



LUNCHEON DISHES I29 

fold in whites which have been beaten until stiff. Bake 
one and one-half hours, or until firm throughout, in baking 
dishes, in moderate oven. Serve with White, Cheese, or 
any desired Tomato Sauce. 

Cheese Loaf 

4 quarts soft bread 3 tablespoons salt 

crumbs, well packed i teaspoon pepper 

4 quarts milk i cup chopped green 
2 pounds grated cheese pepper or pimento 

24 eggs I cup margarine 

Soak bread crumbs in milk thirty minutes. Add cheese, 
seasonings, and well-beaten yolks, and beat well. Fold in 
stiffly beaten whites, turn into oiled baking dishes. Bake 
in moderate oven one and one-half hours, or until a knife 
comes out clean. Serve at once, with or without Italian 
Sauce. 

Cheese and Corn Loaf 

I cup margarine 3 tablespoons salt 

1 cup chopped green 4 quarts milk 

pepper 2 quarts com 

2 quarts soft crumbs or 2 quarts grated cheese 
2 quarts mashed potato 16 eggs 

I teaspoon pepper 

Use canned or fresh sweet corn. Cook pepper in mar- 
garine five minutes. Mix all ingredients except egg whites, 
beat well. Fold in stiffly beaten whites. Bake in moderate 
oven one and one-half hours, or until a knife comes out 
clean. Serve at once, with or without sauce. 



130 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Corn Meal Souffle 

if quarts com meal 24 or more eggs 

6 quarts cold milk i tablespoon paprika 

I cup margarine | teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons salt 3 cups grated cheese 

Put milk and margarine into double boiler; sprinkle 
com meal over top without stirring, let come to scalding 
point, then stir well, and cook until thick as mush. Add 
cheese, seasonings, well-beaten yolks; turn into mixing 
pans and let stand till lukewarm. Fold in stiffly beaten 
whites. Bake in moderate oven one and one-half hours, 
or until a knife comes out clean. Serve at once. 



Boston Roast 

3 quarts white beans 3 quarts grated cheese 

3 quarts mashed potato or 3 cups minced onion 

2 qts. soft, coarse crumbs 3 tablespoons salt 

Bean water to moisten i^ teaspoons pepper 

Soak beans over night, drain ; add cold water to cover, 
bring slowly to boil, and cook in Aladdin oven or on range, 
with slow heat, until soft. Drain, reserving water. Put 
beans through meat chopper. Boil potatoes, put through 
ricer, and pack lightly in cup to measure, or use left-over 
potato. If bread is used, crumble coarsely ; or take dried 
pieces, soak in cold water, wring dry in cheesecloth, and 
crumble. Cook onion slowly in one cup drippings. Mix 
ingredients thoroughly, adding more salt if needed, and 
bean water to make of right consistency to pack in bread 
tins. Or make a little softer, being careful that it is not 
sloppy, and bake in casseroles or ramekins. Bake in 



LUNCHEON DISHES I3I 

moderate oven about an hour for large dishes. Serve with 
Italian or any preferred sauce. 



Vegetable Roast 

4 quarts cooked soy beans i^ teaspoons pepper 

4 quarts corn 3 tablespoons salt or more 

2 quarts cooked hominy | cup grated onion 

2 quarts mashed potato i tbspn. vegetable extract in 
I pt. dried, ground crumbs i^ cups boiling water 

I quart strained tomato 6 eggs, beaten well 

Drain beans and put through meat chopper. If fresh 
corn is used, run sharp knife down center of each row 
of kernels, and remove pulp by scraping. Kornlet or 
chopped canned corn may be used. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly, adding bean water or more tomato if not 
moist enough. It should be so moist that it will not keep 
its shape at all. Rice may be used in place of hominy. 
Turn into baking dishes, and cook in moderate oven about 
an hour. 

Split Pea Souffle 

3 cups barley flour 24 to 30 eggs 

3 cups bacon fat 4 tablespoons salt 

3 quarts milk 2 teaspoons pepper 

4 quarts mashed peas J cup grated onion 

Soak about one and one-half quarts split peas in cold 
water over night; drain. Add water to come even with 
top of peas, bring to boil, and simmer until soft; drain, 
and reserve water. Put peas through puree strainer or 
meat chopper. Melt fat, add flour ; remove from fire, add 
hot milk, stirring constantly until smooth. Ham or sausage 



132 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

fat may be used in place of bacon. Cook in double boiler 
thirty minutes. Add seasonings and pea pulp, and stir 
into well-beaten yolks. Fold in stifHy beaten whites, and 
bake in moderate oven one and one-half hours, or until 
firm. Serve at once. 

A ham bone cooked with the peas gives a delicious 
flavor. In that case, use ham fat or unflavored meat 
drippings instead of bacon fat. 

Indian Fondue 

3 quarts hot milk 2 cups mincedgreenpepper 
3 quarts crumbled com 5 teaspoons mustard 

bread or muffins 2 teaspoons paprika 
2 pounds American cheese 2 tablespoons salt 

2 cups minced red pepper 30 eggs 

Grate or chop cheese. Crumble quite fine com bread or 
muffins (they should not be dried), and pack lightly to 
measure. Mix first eight ingredients thoroughly, add 
well-beaten yolks, and fold in stiffly beaten whites. Bake 
an hour and a half, or until firm, in moderate oven. 

Peanut Loaf 

3 quarts hot boiled rice 10 eggs, well beaten 

2 or 3 quarts chopped 4 quarts milk 

peanuts 5 tablespoons salt 

3 qts. soft bread crumbs 2 teaspoons pepper 

I cup melted fat 

Mix ingredients thoroughly, turn into greased baking 
dishes or bread pans, set in pans of hot water or on 
asbestos mats, and bake an hour, or until a knife comes 
out clean. Serve with Plain Tomato or White Sauce. 



LUNCHEON DISHES I33 

Baked Barley 

i^ quarts pearl barley 2 teaspoons pepper 

6 quarts boiling water 6 cups or more diced meat 

2 tablespoons salt 3 quarts brown gravy 

Add salt and barley to boiling water, and cook in fireless 
cooker over night or all day. Turn into baking dishes, 
add meat, pepper, and hot gravy or Brown Sauce, and mix 
well with a fork. Bake about thirty minutes in moderate 
oven. The meat may be omitted. 



BREAKFAST CEREALS 

There are several cereal products, not commonly used 
for that purpose, which make excellent breakfast cereals : 
pearl barley and cream of barley ; white com meal, which 
makes a very acceptable substitute for cream of wheat; 
a mixture of bran and rye meal, which makes a good 
coarse cereal ; popped corn put through meat grinder. 

Cream of Corn 

Mix one and one-half quarts white com meal with two 
quarts cold water; add two tablespoons salt, and four 
quarts boiling water. Boil five minutes, stirring constantly. 
Cook in double boiler or fireless cooker three hours or 
more. 

Cream of Rye or Rye Flakes 

Bring five quarts water to boil ; add three tablespoons 
salt, and three and one-half quarts cream of rye or rye 
flakes, stirring carefully with long-handled fork to pre- 



134 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

vent breaking of flakes. Boil one minute, and cook thirty 
to forty-five minutes in double boiler. 

Cream of Barley 

Cook as Cream of Corn. This cereal is not very well 
known in the East. It is similar to Ralston in color and 
texture. 

Pearl Barley 

Add one quart pearl barley to six quarts boiling water, 
add two tablespoons salt ; boil ten minutes, and cook five 
or six hours in double boiler, or all night in fireless cooker. 



VEGETABLES 

Creamed Cucumbers 

25 large cucumbers 2 cups margarine 

3 quarts milk i tablespoon salt 

2 cups rice flour or i^ teaspoons pepper 
f cup cornstarch | cup minced parsley 

I teaspoon celery salt i teaspoon paprika 

Peel and quarter cucumbers, and remove seeds with 
spoon. Add one and one-half tablespoons salt to four 
quarts water, add cucumbers, and boil about ten minutes ; 
drain in colander for several minutes, remove to serving 
dishes. 

Cream margarine and flour until smooth ; add hot milk, 
stir until smooth, and cook thirty minutes in double boiler. 
Add salt and pepper, pour over cucumbers, and sprinkle 
with parsley. '^^ 

Stuffed Cucumbers 

The number of cucumbers depends upon their size and 
the desired size of servings. If served as the main course 
for luncheon or supper, the portions should be larger than 
if served as a second vegetable. Pare, steam, or parboil 
five minutes or more ; rinse with cold water, drain. Cut 
in halves lengthwise, remove seeds, pressing out as much 
moisture as possible. Fill cavities rounding full, cover 
with soft, buttered crumbs, place in shallow pans with 
cucumber water in bottom, and bake thirty minutes, or 
until done. Serve with White, Cheese, or Tomato Sauce. 

13s 



136 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

StufBng 

3 quarts soft crumbs I cup bacon fat 

2 qts. chicken or veal, or i| cups minced parsley 

I pound bacon 2 tablespoons salt 

I cup chopped onion i teaspoon celery salt 

I teaspoon pepper i cupchoppedgreenpepper 

Cut bacon in slices, cook until slightly brown ; remove 
from fat, and chop fine. Cook finely minced onion and 
pepper in bacon fat until softened. Mix all ingredients, 
and moisten with stock or cucumber water. 

Mock Oysters 

Wash green tomatoes, remove stems, and cut in half- 
inch slices or thicker. Dip in barley flour to coat thor- 
oughly. Saute in hot frying pans containing cooking oil 
or salt pork drippings to the depth of one-fourth inch. 
They should be well browned on both sides, but not 
burned. Sprinkle both sides with salt and pepper while 
cooking. Arrange on hot platters; serve with Brown 
Sauce. To make the latter, add sufficient drippings to 
pan in which tomatoes were cooked, stir in flour, cook 
until brown ; add hot stock, and when thickened and well 
cooked, strain and pour over tomatoes, or serve in sepa- 
rate dishes. 

Baked Tomatoes 

Wash ripe tomatoes, remove stems, cut in halves cross- 
wise, and place in shallow pans with skin side down. 
Sprinkle each with salt and pepper, and half a teaspoon 
sugar. Put a bit of fat on the top of each. Bake in hot 
oven forty-five minutes, or until done. Place on half- 



VEGETABLES 137 

slices of toast, or on bed of boiled rice. Serve with Cream 
Sauce or White Sauce II. 

Cream Sauce 

Melt one and one-half cups salt pork or meat drippings, 
add an equal quantity of barley or bread flour, and stir 
until golden brown. Add a cup or more of tomato, and 
cook until soft. Add three quarts creamy milk, strain into 
double boiler, and cook until thickened. Serve in gravy 
boats. 

Peppers Stuffed with Rice 

25 large green peppers i pound sausage minced or 

4^ quarts cooked rice i pound bacon diced 

Cut peppers in halves lengthwise ; remove seeds, wash, 
parboil five or ten minutes ; drain. Cook sausage or bacon, 
mix with rice, moisten with a cup of margarine or fat, 
add salt and pepper to taste, and fill peppers rounding 
full. Place in shallow pans with a little water in bottom ; 
bake thirty to forty minutes, moistening rice with rice 
water if too dry. Serve with White Sauce made with 
meat drippings, or with Tomato Sauce. In latter case, 
moisten rice with strained tomato. 

If more peppers are used, increase rice and sausage in 
same proportion. 

Carrots Glace 

I2| pounds carrots i^ cups boiling water 

4 cups corn syrup i cup margarine 

Wash carrots, and scrape or peel very thinly. Boil in 
salted water until nearly done, or cook in steamer. Cut 
in half-inch slices, or cut in quarters lengthwise, and each 



138 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

quarter in two or more pieces, according to length. They 
may be cut before cooking, if preferred. Put into agate 
pans to depth of about two inches. Add syrup and mar- 
garine to water, with one teaspoon salt; dip over the 
carrots, and bake forty-five minutes or longer, basting 
with remainder of mixture. 

Peas with Mint-Glazed Carrots 

Prepare carrots as above. Just before removing from 
oven, sprinkle with one-half cup finely chopped mint. 

Drain and rinse peas, turn into double boiler, and for 
each No. 10 can of peas add one-half cup butter, two 
tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon salt, and one teaspoon 
pepper, and allow thirty minutes for heating. If served 
as main course for luncheon or supper, two cans peas 
should be used. Mound peas in center of platter, with 
border of carrots. 

Carrots with Lima Beans 

2 quarts Lima beans i cup sliced onion 

4 quarts diced carrot 2 tablespoons salt 

I pound salt pork i teaspoon pepper 

Soak beans over night in cold water ; drain. Cover with 
cold water, add one teaspoon soda, parboil fifteen minutes ; 
drain. 

Cut pork in small cubes, cook slowly until crisp, add to 
beans. Cook vegetables in pork drippings until slightly 
browned. Put beans, carrots, pork, and seasonings into 
large, tightly covered kettle, or into casseroles ; add water 
to come nearly to top of beans. Bake two hours, or until 
done. 



VEGETABLES 1 39 

Carrots a la Pompadour 

4 quarts cooked carrot 4 quarts White Sauce I 

4 quarts cooked potato i cup grated cheese 

Cut vegetables in half-inch cubes before measuring. 
Dissolve cheese in white sauce. It is a great improvement 
if cream is used in place of part of milk. Put vegetables 
in layers in baking dishes, having potato on top. Add 
sauce, cover with soft bread crumbs which have been 
mixed with melted fat ; or grated cheese may be sprinkled 
over the top. Bake about twenty minutes. 

Mock Mushrooms 

8 quarts diced egg plant i§ tablespoons salt 

3i quarts brown stock i| teaspoons pepper 

if cups fat or oil i teaspoon Worcestershire 

if cups barley flour i teaspoon onion juice 

Six or eight egg plants will be required. Peel, cut in 
half-inch cubes; cook in boiling salted water twenty 
minutes, and drain thoroughly. 

Heat oil or salt pork drippings, add flour, and when 
smooth, add hot stock. Stir till smooth and thickened; 
add seasonings, and egg plant. Serve very hot on toast 
or in border of Boiled Rice. 

Scalloped Egg Plant 
8 large egg plants i cup minced parsley 

I cup minced onion i^ teaspoons pepper 

i^ cups fat I tablespoon or more 

3 cups chopped mush- salt 

rooms 2 quarts soft crumbs 

The number of egg plants depends upon size ; if very 
large, six would be sufficient. Peel, cut in halves ; parboil 



140 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

in salted water ten minutes, or until tender but not mushy ; 
drain well. Cut in half-inch cubes or pieces. Cook onion 
slowly in fat until softened; add mushrooms, and cook 
two minutes longer. Mix ingredients ; add egg plant water 
to moisten, put in baking dishes or ramekins ; cover with 
crumbs which have been mixed with fat or oil. Bake 
until crumbs are brown. Serve with or without Tomato 
or White Sauce. 

Spring Greens 

There are many common, so-called weeds that furnish 
appetizing greens for those who have no early greens in 
the garden. Every locality can furnish one or more 
of these edible weeds, in addition to the ever present 
dandelion. 

Pigweed, or lamb's quarters, makes good greens when 
young and tender, and is found wherever there is culti- 
vated land. It may be used alone or in combination with 
other greens, and is cooked like spinach. Dandelions 
should be gathered before the flower bud makes much 
growth, and may be cooked like other greens or served 
raw as a salad. The marsh marigold, or cowslip, found 
in marshy places, is prepared like spinach ; also purslane, 
or "pusley." Sorrel, a common wayside weed in many 
localities, may be used alone, or in combination as a salad ; 
or cooked with dandelion, which makes a pleasing com- 
bination. Mustard should be used when young, either 
alone or in combination with greens of a mild flavor, such 
as purslane or pigweed. Very young, crisp mustard leaves 
make a good salad green. Milkweed is one of the most 
valuable of the edible weeds, and, unlike many of them, 
may be used throughout the season. Early in the spring, 
the young stem may be used ; later, only the branches are 



VEGETABLES I4I 

edible. The young stalks may be bunched and cooked like 
asparagus, with either melted butter or a white sauce. 
The branches are usually cooked like spinach. 

Kale 

Remove tough leaves, wash thoroughly, and drain. 
Cook in boiling water, adding one tablespoon salt to four 
quarts water. It will require from thirty to sixty minutes' 
boiling, according to age. Drain well, chop fine ; add one 
cup butter and two cups stock to eight quarts chopped 
kale ; simmer fifteen minutes, adding more salt if needed. 

Kohl-Rabi 

Peel one peck or more kohl-rabies, and cut in half-inch 
slices, discarding tough or woody portions. Boil in salted 
water thirty minutes, or until tender ; drain. Serve with 
melted butter or three quarts White Sauce II. 

Scalloped Kohl-Rabi 

9 quarts sliced kohl-rabi 4 quarts White Sauce II 
I J teaspoons pepper i quart soft crumbs 

Peel kohl-rabi; cut in half-inch cubes, or in one-third 
inch slices ; do not use tough portions. Boil in salted water 
thirty minutes, or until soft, allowing one tablespoon salt 
to four quarts water. Drain, put in baking dishes ; add 
sauce, sprinkle with pepper, and cover with crumbs to 
which one-half cup melted fat has been added. Bake 
until crumbs are brown. Grated cheese may be used in 
place of crumbs, or may be added to white sauce if desired. 



142 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Turnips au Gratin 

I peck white turnips 4 quarts White Sauce II 

i^ teaspoons pepper i quart soft breadcrumbs 

Peel turnips, cut in halves lengthwise, and then in slices ; 
parboil five minutes with one teaspoon soda ; drain. Add 
boiling water, with one teaspoon salt to each quart ; boil 
until tender. Drain, put in baking dishes ; add sauce and 
pepper, cover with buttered crumbs; bake until crumbs 
are brown. Grated cheese may be used in place of crumbs. 

Cabbage a la Frangais 

10 pounds cabbage | pound grated cheese 

3 quarts White Sauce II i teaspoon paprika 

Remove wilted or spoiled leaves, cut in quarters, soak 
an hour in cold salted water ; drain. Boil twenty to thirty 
minutes in salted water; chop coarsely, put in baking 
dishes ; add white sauce, sprinkle cheese and paprika over 
top. Bake about ten minutes. 

Baked Apples and Onions 

10 pounds onions 6 cups water 

6 pounds apples i cup or more margarine 

2 tablespoons salt i teaspoon pepper 

Peel and slice onions ; peel, core, and slice apples. Put 
alternate layers of apple and onion in casseroles, sprin- 
kling each layer with salt and pepper. Melt margarine 
in water, allowing one cup water to each dish. Cover 
tightly, and bake about one and one-half hours. 



VEGETABLES 143 

Fried Onions 

i| pecks onions 2 or more cups oil, mar- 

Salt to taste garine, or drippings 

Peel and slice onions. Into heavy, iron frying pans put 
about one cup water, and from one-fourth to one-half 
cup fat; depends upon size of pans — the water should 
barely cover bottom. Add onions, sprinkle with salt, 
cover. Cook slowly, stirring occasionally, until water has 
evaporated and onions are soft and golden brown, not 
dark brown. 

Onions with Nut Sauce 

Peel one peck or more onions. Parboil in plenty of 
boiling water, with one-half teaspoon soda, for two 
minutes ; drain. Add fresh water to cover, boil five min- 
utes ; drain again. Add boiling water to cover generously, 
and boil an hour, or until quite soft. Have them well 
done, even though they lose shape. If water turns quite 
yellow, it is well to change it again. Drain well, and 
add three quarts Brown Almond Sauce. Or use three 
quarts White Sauce II, to which coarsely cut, well-roasted 
peanuts have been added. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Choose about fifty large, firm, ripe tomatoes; wash, 
cut a slice from stem end, and remove pulp to leave only 
a wall about one-third inch in thickness. About five quarts 
stuffing will be required. Use a mixture of left-over 
chopped meat or minced fish, mixed with crumbs; or 
well-seasoned canned or fresh sweet corn ; or boiled rice 
which has been highly seasoned with onion, green peppers. 



144 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

celery, etc. Some of the chopped pulp may be added, if 
desired. Fill tomatoes rounding full, cover lightly with 
crumbs which have been mixed with melted fat or oil, 
and bake from thirty to forty minutes. Serve with white 
sauce, or with some creamed dish, such as celery or onions. 

Cauliflower Greens 

Wash the outer leaves of cauliflower, boil until soft in 
salted water, chop rather fine ; season with salt, pepper, 
and melted butter. 

Cauliflower au Gratin 

Prepare as Cabbage a la Frangais, using from six to 
nine cauliflowers, according to size. 

Cauliflower with Turnip 
6 pounds white turnips 4 large cauliflowers 

Cut turnips in three-fourths inch cubes ; or cut in halves 
or quarters lengthwise, then in half-inch slices. Boil in 
salted water until about half done. Separate cauliflowers 
into flowerets, and add to turnip ; continue cooking imtil 
done, about forty-five minutes altogether. Serve witli 
melted butter, with white sauce, or as Cauliflower au 
Gratin. 

Cauliflower Polonaise 

- Remove stalks and leaves from six or eight large heads 
of cauliflower. Soak heads in cold salted water an hour 
or more. Cook until tender in boiling salted water, from 
thirty to sixty minutes ; drain. 

Crumble soft, stale bread quite coarse, having about 
two quarts in all. Mix with one cup melted fat, turn into 



VEGETABLES 145 

large, shallow pan, and toast in oven until crisp and golden 
brown. Arrange cauliflower heads on platters, sprinkle 
with toasted crumbs. Serve with Hollandaise Sauce, or 
pour over cauliflowers a rather generous quantity of 
melted margarine. 

Creamed Parsnips 

Wash and scrape fourteen or fifteen pounds parsnips ; 
cut in any desired way. Gx)k in salted water until tender, 
but not broken. 

Meltone and one-half cups margarine or pork drippings ; 
stir into it one and one-half cups barley flour. Add three 
quarts water in which parsnips were boiled; stir until 
smooth and well boiled. Season with pepper and more 
salt if needed. Pour over drained parsnips, and serve at 
once. 

Creamed Radishes 

Wash radishes and remove stem and root. It is not 
necessary to peel them. They may be left whole, or cut 
in any desired way. Cook in salted water thirty minutes, 
or until tender. Serve in three quarts White Sauce II, 
using part of the radish water if desired. Sprinkle with 
minced parsley. 

Summer Squash 

If squash is young and the skin tender, it is unnecessary 
to peel it. Wash, cut in one-third inch slices ; dip in egg 
and sifted crumbs, or in fritter batter ; sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Saute in frying pans in meat drippings or 
cooking oil. 



146 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Salsify 

12 bunches salsify 6 green peppers minced 

(vegetable oyster) 3 cups minced onion 

3 quarts soft crumbs 3 quarts brown stock or 

I J cups drippings 3 quarts White Sauce I 

If white sauce is used, the crumbs are omitted. Scrape 
salsify, put at once into water to which enough vinegar 
has been added to make it slightly acid; this prevents 
discoloration. Cut in pieces before or after cooking. Boil 
in salted water until soft ; drain. Cook pepper and onion 
in drippings until softened, but not brown. Put salsify in 
baking dishes in layers, alternating with pepper and onion, 
and the crumbs if used. Add sauce or stock ; bake thirty 
minutes in moderate oven. 



Corn, California Style 

6 quarts canned corn i cup chopped green pepper 

2 quarts milk i to 2 pounds bacon 

I cup barley flour or 3 quarts soft crumbs 

i cup potato flour i tablespoon salt 

I cup bacon fat i teaspoon pepper 

Make a white sauce of the milk, bacon fat, flour, salt, 
and pepper, following directions for White Sauces. Add 
corn, crumbled stale (not dried) bread, and finely chopped 
pepper. Put in casseroles, and sprinkle over top diced 
bacon which has been cooked just enough to give one cup 
drippings. Bake in moderate oven until bacon is crisp 
and golden brown in color. To conserve bacon, grated 
cheese or buttered crumbs may be used for top, and 
another fat used in sauce. 



VEGETABLES 147 

Savory Corn 

i^ cups white corn meal f cup green pepper 

2^ cups cold milk 2 tablespoons salt 

3 quarts hot milk ^ cup drippings 

4 quarts corn or kornlet 16 eggs, well beaten 

Mix cold milk and meal; add to hot milk, stirring 
constantly until thickened. Add remaining ingredients; 
mix well, and turn into baking dishes. Set in pans of 
water or on asbestos mats. Bake in very moderate oven 
sixty to ninety minutes. When done, a knife will come 
out clean. 

Creamed Cabbage 
12 pounds cabbage 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Remove wilted or discolored leaves, cut in quarters, and 
soak in salt water an hour or more ; drain. Cook in boiling 
salted water from thirty to sixty minutes, but be careful 
not to overcook it. Drain well. Remove tough stalk, cut 
coarsely, turn into serving dishes, and add hot sauce. 
Sprinkle with paprika or finely chopped parsley. 

Cabbage Rolls 

Put left-over meat through meat chopper — beef, veal, 
lamb, pork, or a mixture of several kinds. Season with 
salt, pepper, and minced onion, or any desired combina- 
tion of seasonings. Moisten with left-over brown gravy 
or meat sauce. Wash cabbage leaves of convenient and 
uniform size, allowing one for each person to be served. 
Put into boiling water until wilted ; drain. Put tablespoon 
or more meat on each leaf. Roll, sprinkle with salt ; place 
folded side down in steamer, cook thirty to forty-five 



148 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

minutes. Serve with Brown, Plain Tomato, or Savory 
Sauce. In place of meat, a mixture of rice, minced parsley, 
and bacon which has been cooked until just beginning to 
brown, then chopped, may be used. Make White Sauce 
to serve with these rolls, using bacon drippings in place of 
butter. Or place rolls in baking dishes, add sauce, and 
bake about thirty minutes. 

Canned Asparagus Creamed 

4 quarts White Sauce II 4 to 6 pound-cans asparagus 
100 small slices toast i tablespoon paprika 

Drain asparagus without removing from cans. Remove 
to board, and with sharp knife cut in inch pieces, discard- 
ing any portions too tough to eat. Be careful not to crush 
asparagus. Make white sauce in large double boiler ; add 
asparagus about fifteen minutes before serving. Stir once 
very carefully with long, two-tined fork, just enough to 
moisten asparagus. Dip toast in cold salted water, put 
on buttered platters that will endure heat, and put in oven 
a few minutes to reheat. Cover with creamed asparagus, 
sprinkle with paprika ; serve very hot. Barley bread makes 
good toast. Finely chopped parsley may be used in place 
of paprika. 

Creamed String Beans 

I peck string beans i^ cups barley flour or 

i^ pounds bacon i cup potato flour 

3 quarts milk i teaspoon pepper 

Wash beans, string, and cut in inch pieces. Put into 
boiling water, and boil rapidly for twenty minutes ; drain. 
Cook in boiling water to which one-half teaspoon salt to 



VEGETABLES 149 

each quart has been added. When tender, drain, and add 
to f cJIowing sauce : 

Cook diced bacon slowly until slightly colored; skim 
out, and add to cooked beans. Pour off all but one and 
one-half cups fat, and add flour. Stir until smooth, and 
add hot milk, stirring all the time. If not smooth, beat 
with Dover egg beater; cook thirty minutes in double 
boiler. Season to taste with salt ; add beans, reheat, and 
serve. Margarine or meat drippings may be used in place 
of bacon. 

Beans a la Monitor 

3 quarts yellow-eye beans 2 pounds onions 

1 to 2 pounds bacon 4 tablespoons salt 

Soak beans over night or for several hours; drain. 
Cover with cold water, add one teaspoon soda, and parboil 
five minutes ; drain. 

Cut bacon in half-inch cubes, cook till slightly colored ; 
add to beans. Cook sliced onions in bacon fat for three 
minutes; then add onion, fat, salt, one teaspoon pepper 
to beans and bacon. Add water barely to cover. Bring to 
boil ; cook in fireless cooker or Aladdin oven for five or six 
hours, or until soft. Add more salt if needed. 

Creamed Peas 

2 No. 10 cans peas or 3 quarts White Sauce II 
6 qts. cooked fresh peas i J teaspoons pepper 

Drain and aerate canned peas, reheat in white sauce; 
or add freshly cooked green peas. In the latter case, cook 
peas in smallest possible amount of water, and use water 
in place of part of milk, so as to save all the sweetness 
and flavor of the peas. 



150 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Baked Split Peas 

3 quarts split peas 2 teaspoons pepper 

il pounds bacon 4 tablespoons salt 

Soak peas in cold water over night ; drain. Add boiling 
water to nearly cover, and salt ; cook in fireless cooker or 
Aladdin oven three hours, or until soft, adding water 
if necessary to keep from burning. The peas should be as 
moist as possible without being juicy. Put into casseroles, 
sprinkle with pepper, and cover the top with cubes or 
inch squares of bacon. Cook in rather hot oven until bacon 
is done. 

Lentils, Creole Style 

3 quarts lentils i quart sliced onion 

I J pounds salt pork i pint chopped pepper 

. 2 No. 10 cans tomatoes 4 tablespoons salt 

Soak lentils over night in cold water ; drain. Add boil- 
ing water to cover, simmer thirty minutes; drain. Put 
lentils in large, tightly covered kettle or bean pots; add 
diced pork, strained tomato, onion, chopped green pepper, 
salt, and pepper to taste ; add water barely to come to top. 
Cook two hours, or more if necessary, in fireless cooker 
or Aladdin oven, adding water if needed. 

Serve alone or in border of Boiled Rice ; or add boiled 
rice to lentils before serving. 

Stewed Lentils 

Soak three quarts lentils over night in cold water; 
drain. Add boiling water to cover, allowing one teaspoon 
salt to each quart ; simmer one hour or more. They should 
be quite tender, but not broken. Drain, pile in center of 



VEGETABLES I5I 

platters; surround with border of rice, and serve with 
Italian or Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce. 



Vegetable Hot-Pot 

2 cups drippings 6 quarts cut string beans 

I quart sliced onion 4 tablespoons salt 

1 quart cut celery i teaspoon pepper 

2 quarts sliced carrot or 3 quarts stock or water 

yellow turnip i^ cups barley flour 

6 quarts sliced potato i cup minced parsley 

Cut onions, carrots, and potatoes into half-inch slices. 
If vegetables are large, cut in halves lengthwise before 
slicing. Cut celery and string beans in inch pieces. Cook 
onion and carrot in drippings until light brown, remove 
from fat to kettle, add string beans ; pour on boiling water 
or stock, and boil one hour. Add potato, celery, and 
seasonings, and boil another hour, or until all are tender. 
Stir in thickening which has been mixed with drippings ; 
boil two or three minutes, stirring constantly. Serve with 
Corn Meal Biscuit. 

Scalloped Kidney Beans 

2 qts. red kidney beans 3 cups chopped onion 

I quart raw rice f cup oil or fat 

6 quarts strained tomato 3 tablespoons salt 

^ cup brown sugar i teaspoon paprika 

Soak beans twelve hours or more ; drain. Cover with 
cold water, add one teaspoon soda, parboil fifteen min- 
utes ; drain. Add one tablespoon salt, and boiling water 
barely to come to top; cook slowly until soft, adding 



152 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

water if necessary to prevent burning. There should be 
a small amount of thick juice when done. 

Parboil rice five minutes or more in boiling water; it 
should be about half done. Drain. 

Strain tomatoes; add finely chopped onion, oil, two 
tablespoons salt, sugar, and paprika. Arrange beans and 
rice in layers in casseroles, having bottom of beans and top 
of rice. Add sauce, lifting bean mixture with fork to 
allow sauce to moisten all parts. Bake thirty minutes 
or more in moderate oven. 

Beets Pickled with Onions 

4 quarts cooked beets 3 quarts weak vinegar 

li quarts onions ^ cup brown sugar 

6 tbspns. pickle spice 2 teaspoons salt 

Slice beets before measuring. Peel mild onions, and 
cut in very thin slices before measuring. Pack beets in 
earthenware or enamel receptacle, alternating with onions. 
Add sugar and spices to vinegar, bring to boil, pour over 
vegetables, and let stand several days before using. 

Scalloped Mushrooms 

4 qts. soft, coarse crumbs 2 teaspoons pepper 

i cup minced onion f to i pound bacon 

1 cup minced parsley 3 tablespoons salt 
4 quarts chopped mush- 2 cups barley flour 

rooms 3 quarts mushroom water 

2 teaspoons celery salt or brown stock 

i cup oil or butter 

Use fresh mushrooms, or soak two pounds dried ones 
twenty- four hours or longer in cold water to cover ; drain. 



VEGETABLES 153 

and reserve water. Chop mushrooms. Cook sliced bacon 
until slightly brown ; chop, and add to mushrooms. Cook 
onion slowly in bacon fat for five minutes ; add flour, stir 
until smooth. Add stock or mushroom water, cook until 
thickened, stirring constantly, and cool until lukewarm. 
Add half of salt, and coarsely crumbled white bread 
crumbs, with exception of three cups reserved for top. 
Add parsley, celery salt, and remaining salt to mushrooms, 
and add sauce to make quite moist. Put in baking dishes, 
cover with crumbs which have been mixed with melted 
butter or oil. Bake till crumbs are well browned. 

Baked Squash in Shell 

Choose smooth, hard-shelled winter squash, such as 
Hubbard; cut in three-inch pieces, removing seeds and 
pith. Place shell side down in shallow pans; cover, 
and bake two hours, or until soft. Remove to platters or 
small individual dishes, and eat from shell, seasoning it 
with salt, pepper, and butter as it is eaten. From twenty 
to twenty-five pounds squash will be required to serve in 
shell ; thirty or more pounds if removed from shell. 

Vegetable Hash 

4 quarts cooked cabbage i cup chopped onion 

4 quarts cooked potato i cup chopped green pepper 

2 quarts cooked turnip 3 tablespoons salt 

2 quarts cooked beet I cup drippings 

I cup chopped parsley 3 cups stock 

Chop ingredients coarsely, or cut in small cubes. Cook 
onion and pepper in drippings slowly, until softened. 
The proportion of vegetables may be varied to suit con- 



154 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

venience. Mix ingredients thoroughly, put into casseroles 
or baking dishes ; bake forty-five to sixty minutes. 



Puff Balls, Benzie Style 

Peel puff balls, discarding any portions that are not 
perfectly white. Cut in half-inch slices, dip in egg and 
sifted cracker crumbs, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and saute in oil, butter, or drippings until golden brown 
on both sides. Serve at once. 

Stuffed Celery 

Wash and trim fresh, crisp stalks of celery, scraping off 
any discolored portions. Stir together, until well blended, 
four Neufchatelcheeses, one-half pound Roquefort cheese, 
one-fourth cup margarine, and salt to taste. Fill cavities 
in celery stalks with this mixture, rounding it a little in 
order to use more cheese mixture. Sprinkle with paprika. 

Jellied Vegetables 

^ cup gelatine i J tablespoons salt 

I cup cold water i cup light brown sugar 

I quart boiling water ij quarts celery 

i cup lemon juice i cup green pepper 

I J cups vinegar i cup pimento 

Chop vegetables before measuring. Cabbage may be 
used in place of celery, and corn syrup in place of sugar 
by omitting one cup water. Dissolve gelatine in cold water, 
add boiling water, acid, sugar, and salt. When it begins 
to set, add vegetables, and pour into individual molds, or 
into large molds of any desired shape. Serve as garnish 



VEGETABLES 155 

for cold meats, or on lettuce as salad, with or without 
dressing. 

New York Baked Beans 

3 quarts pea beans i to 3 pounds pork 

4 tablespoons salt i teaspoon pepper 

Wash beans, and soak over night in plenty of cold 
water; drain. Cover with cold water, add one teaspoon 
soda, bring slowly to boil ; cook five or ten minutes ; drain. 
Add boiling water, and simmer until beans begin to soften, 
but do not lose shape; add salt and pepper, turn into 
casseroles. 

Dip pork into boiling water; scrape rind, then cut 
through rind ready for slicing. Press a chunk of pork 
into middle of beans in each casserole ; cover closely, and 
cook in moderate oven three hours, or until done, adding 
more water if needed. Then remove cover to brown top 
of beans and pork. Serve with tomato catsup. Chili Sauce, 
or mustard pickles. 

Baked Soy Beans 

5 pints yellow soy beans i tablespoon mustard 
I pint pea beans 2 teaspoons pepper 

1 to 2 pounds salt pork 2 teaspoons ginger 

2 cups chopped onion 4 tablespoons salt 
f cup molasses ^ cup vinegar 

Wash beans, cover with cold water, and soak two days 
or more in cold place; drain. Add cold water to cover, 
and one teaspoon soda ; parboil twenty to forty minutes ; 
drain. 

Scald salt pork, scrape rind, and cut pork in two-inch 
cubes or in slices. Add pork, onion, molasses, and season- 



156 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

ings to beans, barely cover with boiling water; cover 
closely, and cook in slow oven or fireless cooker from 
twelve to eighteen hours, adding more water as needed. 
The pea beans may be omitted, and one-half cup barley 
flour added, in order to give right consistency to juice or 
liquor, as soy beans contain little starch. 

Bean Rarebit 

3 quarts baked beans 2 teaspoons salt 

3 quarts milk or I teaspoon paprika 

3 quarts strained tomato i teaspoon pepper 

f cup drippings ^ cup made mustard or 

I quart grated cheese I cup chopped mustard 

6 tablespoons cornstarch pickle 

Put beans through fine meat chopper. Melt drippings, 
add cornstarch which has been mixed with paprika, 
salt, and pepper ; stir until smooth. Add hot milk, stir until 
smooth ; add bean pulp, cheese, and mustard. Cook about 
thirty minutes in double boiler. If too thick, add more 
milk or tomato juice. Stewed red kidney beans may be 
used instead of Boston Baked Beans. 

Beans, Italian Style 

3 qts. red kidney beans 3 quarts strained tomato 

I J quarts spaghetti i cup barley flour 

f cup minced onion 5 tablespoons salt 

f cup drippings i teaspoon paprika 

Soak beans over night ; drain. Cover with cold water, 
add one teaspoon soda ; bring to boil, and cook ten minutes 
or more ; drain. Add boiling water and four tablespoons 



VEGETABLES 157 

salt, and cook all night or all day in fireless cooker or 
Aladdin oven ; drain, and reserve liquor for soup. 

Break spaghetti in inch pieces, and cook as for boiled 
macaroni. Boiled samp may be substituted for spaghetti 
when conservation of wheat is essential. 

Cook onion in drippings, add flour, stir till smooth; 
add hot tomato, stirring constantly. Boil four or five 
minutes, add paprika and rest of salt, and carefully stir 
in cooked spaghetti or samp. Pile beans in center of 
platters, and surround with sauce. 

Potato Wiggle 

4 quarts cold potato 4 quarts White Sauce II 

4 quarts cooked peas Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut potatoes in small cubes before measuring. Drain 
peas, and if fresh peas are used, the water in which they 
are cooked may be used in place of part of milk. Peas 
should be cooked in the smallest possible amount of water. 
Potato cubes may be replaced by small, whole, new 
potatoes. The proportion of potato and peas may be varied 
to suit conditions. Reheat in sauce. 

Mexican Rabbit 

6 tablespoons margarine 2 qts. canned corn, fresh 
6 large green peppers grated corn, or kornlet 

3 pounds cheese i tablespoon salt 

12 eggs 1 qt. coarsely cut tomato 

Wash peppers, remove seeds and white portions, and 
chop coarsely. Melt margarine, add chopped pepper, then 
cook slowly until softened. Turn into double boiler, add 
cheese, com, salt, and tomato. When cheese is melted and 



158 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

mixture sufficiently cooked, add to beaten eggs, and stir 
until mixture is hot and thickened. Serve on crackers, or 
on bed of boiled rice or hominy. 

Red Bunny 

3 quarts strained tomato 2 teaspoons soda 

I quart hot milk 12 to 16 eggs 

I J cups fat 2 pounds cheese or less 

I I cups barley flour or i^ tablespoons salt 

bread flour 2 teaspoons paprika 

Melt fat, add flour ; remove from fire. Add milk, stir- 
ring constantly until smooth; cook twenty minutes in 
double boiler. Add grated or chopped cheese and season- 
ings, and stir into beaten eggs; return to double boiler 
and cook ten or fifteen minutes longer, stirring occasion- 
ally. Add soda to tomato, strain; bring to boil, and stir 
gradually iiito milk mixture. Beat with Dover egg beater, 
and serve at once on crackers, moistened toast, or on bed 
of cooked hominy. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 

16 pounds sweet potatoes 3 cups dark corn syrup 
i cupbutteror margarine i^ cups water 

Wash and pare potatoes; they should not stand long 
after peeling, or they will turn dark, even when kept in 
water. Cook twenty to thirty minutes in salted water; 
drain. Cut in halves or thirds, according to size ; put in 
baking pans to depth of about two inches. Boil water, 
syrup, and butter together one minute ; dip part of it over 
potatoes. Bake forty-five minutes, basting with remaining 
syrup mixture. They should be well glazed. 



VEGETABLES 159 

Potatoes Philippa 

4 quarts cold potato 4 quarts White Sauce II 

4 quarts cold white turnip ^ cup minced parsley- 

Cut potatoes and turnips in half-inch cubes before 

measuring. Reheat in sauce, and sprinkle with chopped 

parsley. 

Curried Potatoes 

6 quarts diced potato J cup minced parsley 

2 quarts diced onion | tablespoon salt 

3 quarts White Sauce II i^ tablespoons curry 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into half-inch cubes. Boil 
diced onion fifteen minutes; drain, and add to potato. 
Mix curry and one-half tablespoon extra salt with white 
sauce seasonings. Add sauce to potato mixture, heat ten 
or fifteen minutes in double boiler; turn into serving 
dishes, and sprinkle with parsley. 

Potatoes a la Virginia 

8 quarts raw potato 2 tablespoons salt 

I quart sliced onion i qt. fine, dry crumbs or 

ij pounds bacon i| cups cornstarch 

1^ teaspoons pepper 4 quarts hot milk 

Meat drippings or cooking oil may be substituted for 
bacon. Pare and slice potatoes before measuring, and 
parboil one or two minutes. Add salt and pepper to 
hot milk. Cut bacon in tiny dice. Put layer of potato 
in bottom of casseroles, sprinkle with onion and crumbs ; 
repeat. Add hot milk, sprinkle bacon over top. Cover 
dishes until nearly done ; bake in moderate oven one and 



l6o MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

one-half hours, or until potatoes are soft. If cornstarch 
is used, mix with cold milk to make smooth, then add 
scalded milk, and pour over potato. 

Italian Potatoes 

8 quarts cold diced potato 4 quarts White Sauce I 
3 cups green pepper i tablespoon salt 

I pound or more cheese i teaspoon pepper 

Melt grated cheese in hot white sauce. Cut cold boiled 
or baked potatoes in half-inch cubes, put in baking dishes, 
sprinkle with chopped peppers, salt, and pepper; add 
white sauce. Mix soft, stale crumbs with melted fat, 
and cover top ; or use part of the cheese. Bake in moderate 
oven fifteen minutes, or until crumbs are brown. 

Potatoes a la Clifton 

I peck potatoes 12 to 16 egg whites 

I quart milk i pound cheese grated 

5 tablespoons salt i| pounds bacon 

Boil and mash potatoes; add salt, cheese, and milk; 
beat until creamy. Fold in stifHy beaten whites, pile 
in baking dishes; cover with very thin slices of bacon, 
allowing one to each person. Bake thirty minutes, or until 
bacon is done. Serve as main luncheon dish. 

Potatoes with Parsley Sauce 

Cook peeled potatoes of uniform size in boiling salted 
water until soft. Drain, turn into serving dishes; add 
Parsley Sauce, and serve at once. Steamed instead of 
boiled potatoes may be used. 



VEGETABLES l6l 



Potato Hot-Pot 



8 quarts sliced potato 4 tablespoons salt 

2 quarts sliced onion ij teaspoons pepper 

4 quarts strained tomato i cup barley flour 

Peel and slice potatoes, parboil one or two minutes; 
drain. Put layer in baking dishes, add onion, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, and flour ; repeat. Water may be used 
in place of part of tomatoes ; strain, and add to potatoes. 
Cover dishes, and bake one and one-half hours, or until 
done. 

Scalloped Potatoes with Ham 

7 quarts cold diced potato i tablespoon salt 

I quart diced ham i teaspoon pepper 

4 quarts White Sauce I ^ cup minced parsley 

Cut cold, cooked ham in small pieces or dice. Put into 
baking dishes, with potato, salt, and pepper; add sauce, 
lifting potato with fork, to allow sauce to moisten all 
parts. Bake about twenty minutes in moderate oven. 
Sprinkle with parsley, and serve at once. 

Potato and Onion Scallop 

4 quarts sliced potato ^ cup cornstarch 

4 quarts sliced onion 3 tablespoons salt 

4 quarts milk 2 teaspoons pepper 

Peel and slice potatoes and onions before measuring; 
parboil separately three to five minutes ; drain. Put into 
baking dishes in alternate layers, dredging each layer with 
cornstarch mixed with salt and pepper; add hot or cold 
milk, cover closely, and bake one and one-half to two 



l62 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

hours. Add more milk, if necessary ; the potato mixture 
should be slightly creamy when done. One and one-half 
cups butter substitute may be added when not necessary 
to save fat. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

There are three types of salad in common use: the 
light or "green" salad of lettuce or other salad plants, 
cucumbers, tomatoes, or radishes; the substantial salad 
of meats, fish, or nutritious vegetables; and the fruit or 
cheese salad, suitable for dessert. 

In the recipes that follow, the fruit salads, and a few 
other kinds, are usually given without definite amounts. 
The size of fruits and the desired size of servings deter- 
mine the amount. For instance, half an egg or a whole 
egg may be allowed to each person. If pears or peaches 
are large, half of one makes a fair-sized serving; but if 
fruit is small, or servings are to be large, one and one-half 
or two must be allowed to each. If lettuce is to be served 
alone, at least nine large heads are needed; if used as 
foundation or garnish, six large heads are sufficient, unless 
servings are to be very generous in size. 

Wash salad plants thoroughly, and keep in cold place 
until served. Marinate vegetables and meats for an hour 
or more in freshly made or left-over French Dressing. 
Do not add dressing to green salads till just before serv- 
ing, as they wilt very quickly. 

If parsley (or lettuce) is washed and kept in tightly 
covered receptacle, it will keep fresh and crisp for some 
time. 

There are several oils, besides olive oil, that are suitable 
and satisfactory for marinating salads, and for dressings ; 
cottonseed, peanut, and corn oil are particularly good. 



163 



164 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Apricot Salad 

Drain canned apricots, arrange on crisp heart leaves of 
lettuce. Serve with Cream, Swiss, or Cream Mayonnaise 
Dressing; or with Bretton Woods Dressing, made with 
apricot syrup. 

Grapefruit Salad 

12 large grapefruit 6 sweet green peppers 

1 quart cut celery 3 sweet red peppers 

Remove grapefruit pulp carefully, discarding seeds. 
Clean and scrape celery as needed, and cut in half-inch 
pieces. Wash peppers, remove seeds and white portions ; 
cut in two lengthwise, then cut across in very thin slices 
or shreds. Mix grapefruit and celery, arrange on heart 
leaves of lettuce ; garnish with pepper shreds, and serve 
with Bretton Woods or Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Orange and Chestnut Salad 

Peel seedless oranges, and cut in slices. Peel boiled 
chestnuts, and cut in very thin slices. Arrange on shredded 
lettuce or watercress, and serve with Bretton Woods, 
Cream French, or Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Peach Salad 

Use canned peaches, allowing a large half peach for 
each person. Place on lettuce leaves; fill centers with 
dates cut in small pieces, or with plumped Sultana raisins. 
Serve with Bretton Woods Dressing, or with Swiss or 
Cream Dressing. Chopped nuts may be sprinkled over 
dressing, if desired. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS l6S 

Or drain peaches, arrange on lettuce, and fill centers 
with sweetened whipped cream to which a little lemo« 
juice has been added. 

Melon Salad 

Cut in cubes, and serve on lettuce ; or serve from shell, 
with Bretton Woods Dressing, or salt, pepper, and sugar. 

Sunflower Salad 

36 to 48 seedless oranges Bretton Woods Dressing 

2 to 4 packages dates Watercress 

Remove yellow rind of oranges with grater. Peel, and 
remove pulp carefully from each section. Arrange water- 
cress on individual plates ; place orange sections like petals 
of a flower, sprinkling with grated orange peel. Wash 
and stone dates ; cut each in four pieces, and pile in center. 
Serve with Bretton Woods Dressing. Use in dressing 
any orange juice that escapes. 

Plumped, seedless raisins may be used in place of dates, 
allowing four or five raisins to a serving. 

Apple, Celery, and Raisin Salad 

4 quarts cut apple i teaspoon paprika 

i^ quarts cut celery i^ cups salad oil 
3 cups raisins ^ cup lemon juice 

i teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons sugar 

Stew raisins slowly, in as little water as possible, until 
plump and tender, but not mushy ; drain. Beat together 
oil, seasonings, lemon, sugar, and six or eight tablespoons 
raisin water. Peel apples, quarter, and slice crosswise. 
The slices should be thick enough not to break. Cut 



l66 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

celery in quatter-inch slices. Marinate apples and celery 
in oil mixture thirty minutes ; drain, add raisins. Serve on 
shredded or heart leaves of lettuce. Serve with Cream 
or Cream Mayonnaise Dressing. Dates may be used in 
place of raisins. 

Cherry Salad 

Use pitted red or white canned cherries. Arrange on 
heart leaves of lettuce, with small balls made of Neuf- 
chatel or cottage cheese; or with marshmallows which 
have been cut in fourths. Serve with French or Bretton 
Woods . Dressing. 

Pear Salad 

Use canned or fresh pears. Serve in halves, quarters, 
or slices. Serve on crisp shredded or heart leaves of 
lettuce. Garnish with strips of canned pimento or stuffed 
olives. Serve with any preferred dressing. 

Manhattan Salad 

i cup gelatine in 2 quarts cut apple 

2 cups cold water i quart celery 

I quart boiling water 2 cups broken nuts 

I cup sugar 2 small cans pimentos 

I cup lemon juice 6 heads lettuce 

Soak gelatine in cold water ten minutes; add boiling 
water, sugar, and lemon juice. Chill until it begins to 
stiffen, then add apples and celery, which have been cut 
in small cubes or pieces, and nuts. Turn into individual 
molds, and chill. Serve on lettuce ; garnish with pimento 
cut in strips. Pass with it Cream or California Mayon- 
naise. Serve as dessert. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 167 

Stuffed Celery Salad 

Fill celery stalks with Roquefort or Neufchatel cheese ; 
cut in inch pieces and serve on lettuce, with French 
Dressing. 

Frozen Fruit Salad 

6 tbspns. potato flour i quart hot milk 

I cup sugar 2 cups vinegar 

i§ tablespoons salt 2^ cups cream 

■J teaspoon paprika i No. 3 can pineapple 

5 tablespoons margarine i cup or more orange 

8 beaten egg yolks i cup banana or peach 

Mix flour, sugar, salt, and paprika. Melt margarine, 
add flour; then, slowly, well-beaten yolks. Stir until 
smooth. Add hot milk slowly, and cook over hot water 
until it thickens, stirring constantly. Add vinegar, remove 
from fire ; beat hard, chill. Fold in whipped cream, and 
add fruit mixture : Cut bananas and pineapple into small 
pieces. Peel oranges, and remove pulp separately from 
sections. White or red cherries may be added, or be used 
in place of some other fruit. 

Fill small baking powder cans or pudding molds solidly 
with mixture ; cover tightly, pack in ice and salt, let stand 
three hours or more. Cut in slices ; serve on lettuce leaves, 
as the dessert course. No dressing is needed. 

Clover Leaf Salad 

Remove a slice from the stem end of large, perfect 
green peppers. Wash, and remove seeds carefully, so as 
not to break peppers. Press solidly into the peppers 
enough Neufchatel, cream, or cottage cheese to fill cavities. 



l68 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

The cheese should be salted to taste. Set in cold place to 
harden. Before serving, cut crosswise in slices one-third 
to one-half inch in thickness; place on shredded lettuce. 
Serve with French Dressing. 



Tomato and Cheese Salad 

25 large, firm tomatoes f cup minced olive 

8 to 12 Neufchatel f cup minced red pepper 

cheeses i to i teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon white pepper 

Chop olives and pepper very fine, mix thoroughly witk 
cheese and seasonings ; roll in balls about half an inch in 
diameter. Cut tomatoes in halves crosswise; place each 
half on two or three heart leaves of lettuce, with cheese 
balls on top. 

The olives and red pepper may be replaced by finely 
chopped parsley and paprika. Cottage cheese may be used 
in place of Neufchatel. Serve with French Dressing. 

Greenbrier Salad 

50 slices pineapple 3 large green peppers 

10 Neufchatel cheeses 6 heads lettuce 

If slices are large, they may be cut in two; three to 
five No. 3. cans are required. Place on crisp, blanched 
lettuce leaves. Mix cheese with three-fourths teaspoon 
salt, shape in tiny balls, and place on pineapple. Wash 
peppers, remove seeds and white portions; cut in two 
lengthwise, and cut across in very thin slices. Arrange 
in border around pineapple. Serve with Bretton Woods 
Dressing. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS l6^ 

This salad is delicious with preserved green goose- 
berries dipped over cheese balls, using some of the 
jooseberry syrup in the dressing. 

Berkeley Salad 

6 or more heads lettuce i pound Young America or 

I No. 3 can pineapple any soft, yellow cheese 

1 large can pimentos French Dressing 

Wash lettuce ; leave small heart leaves whole, but shred 
or tear the large leaves in pieces. Put in refrigerator 
until very crisp. Arrange in salad bowls ; scatter over it 
pineapple which has been cut in shreds or slivers, coarsely 
crumbled cheese, and shreds or small pieces pimento. 
Serve with French Dressing. 

Banana Sandwich Salad 

25 or 50 bananas 2 cups walnut meats 

2 to 4 cups raisins ^ cup preserved ginger 

Chop raisins, walnuts, and ginger fine; moisten with 
ginger syrup and lemon juice to taste. Chill and peel 
bananas, serving a whole or half banana to each person. 
Split lengthwise, put filling between; place on bed of 
watercress, and serve for dessert with Cream or California 
Mayonnaise, or with Cream Dressing. 

Beechcroft Salad 

8 Neufchatel cheeses i tablespoon salt 

2 cups peanut butter 12 to 14 large, red apples 

Put cheese, peanut butter, and salt into bowl ; mix well. 
pil fingers slightly with salad oil, and form mixture int« 



170 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

small balls. Wash apples, remove centers with corer, 
and cut each apple crosswise into four or five sKces. 
Place on watercress or lettuce, fill center with cheese balls, 
and serve with Bretton Woods Dressing. Cook cores in 
small amount of water ; strain, and use juice in dressing. 
Cottage instead of Neufchatel cheese may be used. As 
fast as apples are cut, moisten with French Dressing, 
or put in salted water to prevent discoloration. 

Prune and Cheese Salad 

Wash prunes ; soak over night, or longer, in cold water ; 
steam until tender, but not mushy. Remove stones, crack, 
and reserve meats. The prunes should not be broken, and 
it is well to chill them before removing meats. Add salt 
to taste, and chopped meats, to cottage or Neufchatel 
cheese; fill prune cavities, and place three or four on 
lettuce leaves. Serve with Bretton Woods or French 
Dressing, to which one tablespoon powdered sugar has 
been added. The chopped meats may be sprinkled over 
top, instead of mixed with cheese. Steamed dates may 
be used in the same way. 

Bacon Salad 

8 heads lettuce or their 2 tablespoons brown sugar 

equivalent i teaspoon pepper 

I pound or more bacon 2 teaspoons paprika 

li cups vinegar i teaspoon mustard 

Cut bacon in one-fourth inch dice ; cook till crisp. Mix 
dry ingredients, add vinegar, and stir until smooth; add 
to bacon and fat, bring to boiling point. The larger and 
broken outside leaves of lettuce may be used, leaving 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS lyt 

the inside ones for another salad. Shred by laying leaves 
in a pile, then cutting crosswise in half-inch strips. Pile 
lightly in salad bowls. Pour dressing over lettuce just 
before serving, or pass at table. The latter prevents 
wilting. 

Chicken Salad 

5 quarts chicken cubes 2 cups French Dressing 
3 quarts cut cucumber 2 teaspoons paprika 

I quart sliced radish 2 teaspoons salt 

I quart cut celery i qt. or more Mayonnaise 

Peel cucumbers ; if large, cut in halves lengthwise 
before slicing. Slice radishes without peeling. Cut celery 
in thin slices crosswise. Marinate with French Dressing, 
salt, and pepper, being careful not to break vegetables. 
Cut chicken in half-inch cubes or neat pieces. Arrange 
vegetables on lettuce or watercress, pile chicken on top, 
and put a spoonful Mayonnaise on each serving. Garnish 
with slices of radishes. 

Veal Salad 

6 quarts diced veal 2 cups French Dressing 
3 quarts celery, peas, or 2 dozen tomatoes 

cut string beans 3 heads lettuce shredded 

I tablespoon salt i qt. or more Mayonnaise 

Marinate veal and vegetables separately with salt and 
left-over French Dressing. The veal should be cut in 
half-inch cubes or neat pieces. When ready to serve, 
drain, and mix together lightly and carefully, and pile in 
center of platters, on a bed of lettuce or watercress. Cut 
tomatoes in quarters lengthwise, and arrange at base of 
mound. Cover top of mound with Mayonnaise. 



172 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Sardine and Tomato Salad 

25 firm, large tomatoes 6 or 8 heads lettuce 

6 large boxes sardines Vinaigrette Dressing 

Arrange lettuce to form nests. Cut tomatoes in quarters 
or sixths lengthwise ; arrange two or three sections in each 
nest, and place sardines between. Serve with Vinaigrette 
Dressing. 

Fish and Cuciunber Salad 

5 quarts cooked fish i cup minced parsley 

5 quarts sliced cucumber i teaspoon pepper 

I quart watercress 6 heads shredded lettuce 

4 teaspoons salt Mayonnaise Dressing 

Canned or cooked fresh fish may be used. Separate 
in flakes or in neat pieces, not less than three-fourths inch 
square. Mix carefully with salt, pepper, chopped cress, 
and Mayonnaise ; be careful not to break fish. Arrange 
cucumber on lettuce to form circles; fill center with fish 
mixture, and sprinkle with parsley. 

Potato and Peanut Salad 

9 quarts potato cubes 3 finely minced onions 

1 quart diced celery or i J cups vinegar 

cucumber i cup oil or margarine 

5 tablespoons salt i quart peanuts 

2 teaspoons pepper California Mayonnaise 

Mix carefully all ingredients except nuts and Mayon- 
naise ; let stand an hour or more. Use freshly roasted or 
reheated peanuts, in halves or large pieces. Just before 
serving, mix with potato ; arrange in salad bowl, garnish 
with watercress, and serve with California Mayonnaise. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS I73 

Sardine and Egg Salad 

Arrange lettuce in nests. Cut hard-cooked eggs in 
fourths lengthwise, or in slices. Arrange three or four 
pieces of egg, and about the same number of sardines, 
for each person, and serve with French, Creole, or Chili 
Dressing. 

Frankfurts with Potato Salad 

9 quarts diced potato i tablespoon celery salt 

I cup minced onion 2 teaspoons pepper 

i cup minced parsley i teaspoon paprika 

I pint mustard pickle 3 cups salad oil 

4 tablespoons salt i cup vinegar 

Chop or cut mustard pickles coarsely. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly but carefully; chill. Arrange in mound in 
center of platters, sprinkle with parsley, and arrange 
broiled Frankfurts as a border. 

Hot Potato Salad 

9 quarts sliced potato 3 or more cups salad oil 

I quart beef broth ^ cup minced onion 

4 or 5 tablespoons salt i tablespoon celery salt 

5 teaspoons paprika i^ cups vinegar 
I tablespoon mustard | cup parsley 

3 tablespoons sugar 12 hard-cooked eggs 

Scrape new potatoes, and boil in salted water. Slice 
while still hot. Add hot beef broth, seasonings, onion, 
and half the oil. Mix, and let stand several hours. Rub 
yolks through sieve; add mustard, sugar, and vinegar. 
Stir until smooth, and add rest of oil. Add egg whites, 



174 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

finely chopped, and combine with potato. Sprinkle with 
parsley. The bowl or pan in which salad is mixed may 
be kept standing in pan of hot water, since the salad 
should be warm when served. There should be sufficient 
oil to keep salad well moistened. Bacon fat may be used 
in place of oil. 

Pompeian Salad 

6 to 8 pounds cabbage i tablespoon salt 

f pound cheese 2 teaspoons paprika 

2 cups cucumber pickle i can pimento, chopped 

Choose crisp, solid heads of cabbage. Cut in quarters, 
and lay in salted ice water for an hour or more; drain, 
chop coarsely. Chop pickles and pimentos, and break or 
chop cheese. Just before serving, mix ingredients well, 
and garnish with pimento cut in any desired shape. Serve 
with French Dressing, if for dinner; Mayonnaise, if for 
luncheon. 

Cabbage Salad, French Style 

6 pounds cabbage i J tablespoons salt 

6 green peppers i teaspoon pepper 

i cup chopped parsley i pint oil 
1 tablespoon prepared i cup vinegar 

mustard 6 to 12 hard-cooked eggs 

Choose crisp, solid heads of cabbage. Cut in quarters, 
let stand in cold water an hour or so; drain dry, shred 
very fine. Wash peppers; discard seeds and veins, cut 
in fine shreds. Beat salt, pepper, mustard, oil, and vinegar 
until creamy. Mix all ingredients together. Garnish with 
sliced eggs and strips of pimento. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 175 

Vegetable Salad, French Style 

6 quarts diced potato 2 cups grated onion 

I quart diced cucumber 5 tablespoons salt 

1 quart diced radish 2 teaspoons pepper 

2 quarts cut celery Mayonnaise Dressing 

Cook potatoes before dicing them. Mix ingredients 
carefully and thoroughly; chill. Arrange in mound in 
center of platters; garnish with slices of red radishes, 
and crisp, white celery tips or watercress. 

Midwinter Salad 

2 No. 10 cans tomato J cup strong vinegar 
I J cups chopped onion 2 tablespoons salt 

3 sprigs parsley 6 tablespoons sugar 
12 stalks celery i^ cups gelatine in 

I tablespoon paprika 3 cups cold water 

Cook first four ingredients together twenty minutes 
after boiling begins; strain. There should be four and 
one-half quarts. Add remaining ingredients ; mold in any 
desired form. Garnish with crisp, shredded cabbage, 
and balls or fancy shapes of Young America or other 
yellow cheese. Half-inch pieces of cooked string beans 
and raw celery may be molded with tomato. 

Chiffonade Salad 

Cut lettuce, romaine, and endive in quarter-inch strips. 
Remove seeds and white portions from green peppers; 
cut in two lengthwise, then cut in very thin slices cross- 
wise. Break watercress in pieces. Mix ingredients, and 
toss lightly into salad bowl. If desired, garnish with 



176 MORE RECIPES POK TIFTY 

sections of grapefruit, slices or sections of tomato, or 
slices of cucumber. Serve with Chiffonade or Chili 
Dressing. 

Bean Salad 

7 quarts stewed beans i tablespoon onion sah 

3 quarts diced beet Watercress or lettuce 

4 cup chopped parsley Russian Dressing 

Use Lima, white kidney, flageolet, or pea beans ; drain. 
Marinate for an hour or more with left-over French 
Dressing to which the onion salt has been added. Arrange 
on bed of shredded lettuce or of watercress, with border 
of beets. Sprinkle with parsley, and pass with it Russian 
or Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Vegetable Salad 

Vegetable salads may be made like Bean Salad, using 
any convenient or favorite combination of vegetables: 
carrots and string beans ; peas and beets ; asparagus and 
radishes ; cauliflower, peas, and carrots ; and various other 
combinations. Serve with any desired dressing. Some 
form of French Dressing is preferable for dinner ; Mayon- 
naise for luncheon. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Bretton Woods Dressing 

2^ teaspoons salt i^ cups fruit juice 

Ji teaspoons pepper ^ cup lemon juice 

I or 2 teaspoons paprika ij cups olive or other 
5 tspns. powdered sugar salad oil 

If fruit syrup or sweetened juice is used, omit sugar. 
The syrup or juice should harmonize with salad: pine- 



SALABS AND SALAD DRESSIKGS I77 

apple syrup with pineapple salad, or orange juice with 
mixed fruit. Mix ingredients ; chill. Just before serving, 
beat hard with Dover egg beater. Serve with fruit salads. 

Chiffonade Dressing 

I cup minced parsley 2 tablespoons salt 

f cup chopped red pepper 2 cups salad oil 

2 tbspns. minced onion J cup vinegar 

I tablespoon paprika 6 or more eggs 

Chop hard-cooked eggs fine. Mix remaining ingredi- 
ents, and chill. Just before serving, beat hard with Dover 
egg beater; add eggs, and serve with shredded lettuce, 
romaine, endive, cabbage, and other green salads. 

Chili French Dressing 

i^ tablespoons salt 2 tablespoons sugar 

I or 2 teaspoons mustard i cup vinegar 

I teaspoon paprika 2 cups salad oil 

^ teaspoon pepper i cup Chili Sauce 

Mix ingredients; chill, and beat just before serving. 
Omit sugar for potato salad. Serve with fruit, tomato, 
cucumber, and similar salads. 

Roquefort Dressing 

2i cups salad oil 4 teaspoons salt 

i cup Roquefort cheese 6 or 8 drops Tabasco Sauce 
I teaspoon paprika i cup vinegar 

Stir cheese until creamy; add seasonings. Gradually 
beat in oil, then vinegar. Serve with lettuce, endive, 
cabbage, and other greea salads. 



178 JIORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Vinaigrette Dressing 

I teaspoon mustard i teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon paprika i tablespoon parsley 

I teaspoon curry ^ red pepper chopped 

I teaspoon minced chive f cup vinegar 

I tbspn. minced onion 2^ cups salad oil 

Chop parsley fine. Mix and crush first eight ingredi- 
ents. Add one tablespoon oil, and mash all to pulp ; add 
oil and vinegar gradually; chill. Beat hard just before 
serving. One-half cup finely chopped cucumber pickle 
may be added if desired. Serve with lettuce, asparagus, 
and similar salads. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

I J teaspoons mustard i^ pints salad oil 

I tspn. powdered sugar 6 tablespoons vinegar or 
1 tablespoon salt half lemon juice 

I teaspoon paprika 3 egg yolks 

f teaspoon pepper 3 stifHy beaten whites 

Mix dry ingredients, stir in yolks of eggs; add grad- 
ually the acid, beating thoroughly. Use a coiled wire 
whisk or Dover egg beater. Add one-half teaspoonful oil 
slowly, beating hard all the time; continue until half a 
cup has been used, then add a teaspoon or more at a time, 
beating constantly. At the last, a tablespoon at a time 
may be added. Beat in, one at a time, three tablespoons 
boiling water, and then stir in stiffly beaten whites. If 
preferred, vinegar and oil may be added alternately, 
beginning with half a teaspoon vinegar, and oil drop by 
drop. If Mayonnaise curdles, add it gradually to yolk 
of an egg, beating constantly. Cover tightly, and keep in 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS I79 

cold place if not used at once. Sometimes drops of oil 
collect on sides of receptacle, or on top of dressing. These 
should be removed before stirring Mayonnaise, or mixture 
will curdle. 

Condensed Milk Dressing 

6 tablespoons barley, rice, 2 cups mild vinegar 

or bread flour 2 cups water 

2 tablespoons mustard 4 eggs 
2 tablespoons salt i cup margarine 

I cup condensed milk 2 cups cream 

Mix well first three ingredients; add slightly beaten 
yolks, milk, water, and vinegar. Cook over hot water 
until thick, stirring constantly ; then add margarine. When 
partly cooled, fold in stiffly beaten whites, and just before 
serving add whipped cream. 

Russian Dressing 

To each quart stiff Mayonnaise Dressing add one cup 
Chili Sauce, two tablespoons each finely chopped red and 
green pepper. Beat well ; serve at once. 

California Mayonnaise 

5 tbspns. potato flour i^ teaspoons paprika 

6 tablespoons salad oil ij teaspoons mustard 
f cup mild vinegar i^ pints hot water 

I tspn. powdered sugar ij pints salad oil 

2^ tablespoons salt 3 eggs 

Mix dry ingredients ; add vinegar, and six tablespoons 
oil ; stir until smooth. Add hot water, and boil five min- 
utes, stirring constantly ; or cook thirty minutes in double 
boiler ; cool. Add to slightly beaten egg yolks. Add oil 
gradually, beating hard all the time. Fold in stiff whites. 



I So MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Peanut Butter Mayonnaise 

I pt.Mayonnaise Dressing ^ teaspoon salt 

I pint peanut butter 2 tspns. French mustard 

Btat about one- fourth cup water into peanut butter; 
there should be enough to make it about consistency of 
Mayonnaise. Add gradually to Mayonnaise, beating hard 
with an egg whip or Dover egg beater. Add salt and 
mustard, and chill before using. Mustard may be omitted. 

Thousand Island Dressing 

1 quart stiff Mayonnaise i cup Chili Sauce 

i cup minced onion i tablespoon paprika 

i cup chopped pimento i teaspoon salt 

i cup chopped pepper 4 hard-cooked eggs 

Chop egg whites, onion, pimento, and green pepper 
fine. Put yolks through fine sieve ; add dressing, beating 
well, then add remaining ingredients. Serve with fish, 
meat, or vegetable salad, or as sauce with meats or fish. 

Swiss Salad Dressing 

9 egg yolks i tablespoon paprika 

2 cups strained honey 2 teaspoons salt 

I cup salad oil i pint sweet or slightly 

3 tablespoons lemon juice sour cream 

Bring honey to boil, and pour over beaten egg yolks ; 
cook three minutes, stirring constantly. Beat until cool 
and thicker than Mayonnaise. Add gradually the season- 
ings, lemon juice, and oil. Beat hard, chill, and fold in 
stifHy beaten cream just before serving. 



SANDWICHES 

There are two types of sandwiches in common use: 
the substantial sandwich, which makes the main dish for 
luncheon or supper; and the small, dainty sandwich, 
served at afternoon teas and receptions. 

Breads of all kinds may be used for sandwiches : white 
and dark yeast breads, and quick breads made with baking 
powder or soda. The latter do not slice as well, but other- 
wise make very satisfactory sandwiches. To use with 
meat or fish, a bread made without molasses or a notice- 
able amount of sugar should be chosen. Yeast bread 
should be twenty-four hours old; quick breads from 
twelve to twenty-four hours old. 

Except for formal occasions, crusts should not be re- 
moved. For that reason, bake bread to light rather than 
dark brown, and bake in pans that make slices of desirable 
shape and size. For teas and receptions, the bread should 
be sliced as thin as possible; for substantial sandwiches, 
cut it from one-fourth to one-third inch in thickness. 

Cream thoroughly butter or any kind of margarine ; 
spread the bread evenly to its very edge, but for recep- 
tions and teas, be careful that there is no butter on the 
edge to soil gloves. Cover the bread evenly to the very 
edge with as thick a layer of filling as circumstances 
permit. It should not soak through or run over the edge, 
but should be sufficient to flavor the sandwich well, or to 
furnish the desired amount of food material if it is the 
main dish. Unless meats are very tender, they should be 
chopped rather than sliced. 

iSi 



1 82 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Sweet sandwiches are served as dessert for supper or 
luncheon, with or without tea or chocolate. They are 
particularly nice for picnics. 

If sandwiches are to be kept any length of time, wrap 
in oiled paper, or cheesecloth wrung out of cold water, 
and keep in closely covered tin box or jar. 

Watercress Butter 

I pound margarine 4 teaspoons lemon juice 

^ teaspoon salt ij cups minced cress 

Stir margarine until creamy; add salt, finely minced 
watercress, and lemon juice. 

Sardine Butter 

1 pound margarine 4 teaspoons lemon juice 

2 dozen sardines ^ teaspoon paprika 

Stir butter until creamy; add paprika, lemon juice, 
and sardines, which have been pounded to paste after 
removing skin, or bones if necessary. 

Kalamazoo Relish 

I quart chopped celery ^ cup grated onion 

i cup sugar (optional) i cup Mayonnaise 

i teaspoon salt i tablespoon parsley 

Chop celery very fine ; add seasonings and, last, Mayon- 
naise Dressing. Serve with club, lettuce, or plain meat 
sandwiches. 

Toasted Meat Sandwiches 

Put slices of buttered or unbuttered bread together, 
with filling of chopped bacon, seasoned and moistened 



SANDWICHES 183 

beef, ham mixed with chopped mustard pickle or salad 
dressing, or any other meat mixture. Toast quickly on 
each side, and serve at once. 

Hot Beef Sandwiches 

Cut left-over roast beef in very thin slices ; it does not 
matter about size of slices. Put between slices of bread, 
arrange on platters or individual plates, and cover gener- 
ously with hot Brown Gravy. If beef does not slice nicely, 
it can be chopped instead. Veal, lamb, or fresh pork may 
be used instead of beef. 

Hot Chicken Sandwiches 

4 quarts chicken diced 2 quarts hot milk 

2 quarts peas cooked 2 quarts hot chicken broth 

1 can pimentos 4 teaspoons salt 

2 cups butter or fat 2 teaspoons paprika 

f cup potato flour 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

Cream butter or chicken fat and flour together ; add hot 
milk and broth, stirring until smooth. Cook thirty min- 
utes in double boiler ; add seasonings. Cut chicken care- 
fully in half-inch cubes or pieces; reheat in sauce, and 
serve on bread which has been toasted on one side. 

Green Pepper and Peanut Butter Sandwiches 

Chop sweet green peppers, celery, and onion very fine, 
in any desired proportions. Mix with Peanut Butter 
Mayonnaise, using about one-third green pepper mixture 
to two-thirds of Mayonnaise. Spread between thin slices 
of buttered bread. 



l84 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Toasted Cheese Sandwiches 

Mix grated cheese to paste with softened butter or 
margarine ; season with celery salt, prepared mustard, and 
paprika. Spread between slices of bread, and saute o« 
both sides, in butter, on hot griddle. 

Peanut Butter and Egg Sandwiches 

12 hard-cooked eggs ^ cup minced green pepper 

f teaspoon celery salt | cup peanut butter 

I teaspoon paprika Salt to taste 

Mash eggs until quite smooth; add seasonings and 
peanut butter, and mix thoroughly. Add minced pepper, 
and water enough to make spread well. Spread thickly 
on slices of bread, and put together with lettuce. The 
bread may be buttered, but it is not necessary. 

Peanut Butter and Onion Sandwiches 

Spread one slice of bread with butter, and another 
one with peanut butter. Put together with thinly sliced 
Bermuda onion which has been marinated with Frenck 
Dressing. 

Sardine Sandwiches 

I pound can sardines | cup sardine oil 

I cup cucumber pickle 8 hard-cooked egg yolks 
I tbspn. minced parsley ^ teaspoon salt 

I tbspn. mixed mustard i teaspoon pepper 

Rub sardines to paste; chop pickle and parsley very 
fine. Mix ingredients well, adding two or three table- 
spoons vinegar if not tart enough. Spread slices of 
buttered or unbuttered rye or barley bread with mixture. 



SANDWICHES 185 

Egg Sandwiches 

1. Spread bread with butter mixed with parsley. Put 
sliced, hard-boiled eggs, sprinkled generously with salt 
and pepper, between slices. 

2. Spread one slice of bread with butter, the other with 
Mayonnaise. Put together with lettuce and slices of hard- 
boiled egg. Sprinkle egg with salt and pepper. 

3. Mix finely chopped eggs with Mayonnaise or Boiled 
Dressing to moisten well. Put between slices of buttered 
bread. 

4. Mix finely chopped eggs and stuffed olives with 
Boiled or Mayonnaise Dressing. Put between slices of 
buttered bread. 

5. Mix finely chopped ham and eggs, moisten with 
salad dressing of any kind; add a little minced mustard 
pickle or prepared mustard. Put between slices of buttered 
or unbuttered bread. 

Cucumber and Onion Sandwiches 

Chop cucumber and onion until very fine ; moisten with 
highly seasoned French Dressing. Spread slices of bread 
with some of the dressing. Put together with crisp, 
shredded lettuce and cucumber mixture. Chopped celery 
or green pepper may be added. 

Windsor Sandwiches 

I pound butter substitute . Salt to taste 

3 cups chopped ham ^ teaspoon paprika 

3 cups chopped chicken Salad dressing 

Rub butter till creamy; add finely chopped ham and 
chicken; season to taste with salt and pepper. Spread 



l86 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

slices of bread with Mayonnaise or Boiled Salad Dressing. 
Put together with chicken and ham mixture. 



Cheese Sandwiches 

1. Mix one-half pound butter or margarine, two cups 
grated cheese, two cups finely chopped nuts, and one 
teaspoon paprika to a paste. Spread slices of any kind of 
brown bread with mixture, and put together in pairs. 

2. Mix six Neufchatel cheeses and half cup or more 
chopped pimento; season with salt, pepper, and Mayon- 
naise. Spread one slice of rye or barley bread with cheese 
mixture, the other with peanut butter, and press firmly 
together. 

3. Mix six Neufchatel cheeses, or their equivalent of 
cottage cheese, to a paste, with salt, paprika, and cream. 
Spread bread with Watercress Butter, and put together 
with cheese mixture. 

4. Mix six Neufchatel cheeses, one-half cup each finely 
chopped nuts, olives, and green peppers; season with 
one-half teaspoon salt and paprika, and moisten to a paste 
with cream. Spread brown bread or any quick bread with 
butter or margarine, and put together with cheese mixture. 

5. Mix two cups peanut butter with hot water to make 
a smooth paste that spreads easily ; add a little salt. Mix 
two cups cottage cheese, with salt, and enough cream to 
soften, but not to make too thin. Spread one slice of 
bread with cheese, another with peanut butter, and press 
together. 

Sweet Cheese Sandwiches 

I. Use any quick bread not flavored with molasses. 
Spread half the slices with softened cream cheese, the 



SANDWICHES 187 

Other half with currant, cranberry, or gooseberry con- 
serve or marmalade ; put together in pairs. 

2. Cut any nut bread into very thin slices ; spread with 
mixture of cream cheese and butter, rubbed together until 
soft. Put together with orange or grapefruit marmalade. 

3. Cream together six Neufchatel cheeses and three- 
fourths cup butter or margarine; spread any kind of 
brown or quick bread. Put together with dates which 
have been washed, stoned, and chopped, or cut in halves 
or quarters. 

4. Spread very thin slices of bread with softened 
butter. On one slice put Neufchatel cheese, on the other 
pineapple marmalade. Press firmly together, and toast 
delicately on each side if desired. 

Club Sandwiches 

Toast slices of bread on one side. Spread untoasted 
side of one slice with Mayonnaise Dressing, cover with 
lettuce leaf ; add thinly sliced chicken, then more dressing 
and another leaf of lettuce. Put on thin, crisp slices of 
bacon, then sliced tomato and lettuce. Finish with second 
slice of toast, spread generously with dressing. Garnish 
with tiny lettuce leaves, and serve at once. The tomato 
may be omitted. 

Country Club Sandwiches 

Toast slices of bread on one side, and spread other side 
with butter. On buttered side of one slice, place lettuce 
leaf, spread generously with Mayonnaise Dressing ; then, 
in order given, a layer each of thinly sliced, mild onion, 
sliced tomato, sliced hard-cooked egg. Spread with more 
dressing, and cover with lettuce. Finish with second slice 



1 88 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

©f toast. Sliced cucumbers may be used instead of onion, 
if preferred. 

English Sandwiches 

Cover one slice of buttered bread with thinly sliced or 
grated cheese ; spread second slice with orange marmalade. 
Put slices together, and toast on each side. The butter 
may be omitted. 

Chicken Sandwiches 

Mix finely chopped chicken with Mayonnaise Dressing 
♦o moisten well ; add finely chopped green pepper, or celery 
if desired. Put between two slices of well-buttered bread. 

Hot Bacon Sandwiches 

Cook thinly sliced bacon in oven until crisp and slightly 
browned. Spread slices of bread with hot bacon fat, then 
with thin layer of salad dressing; cover with lettuce leaf 
or chopped tomato, put on crisp bacon, and finish with 
second slice of bread. Serve at once. 

Corned Beef or Ham Sandwiches 

Chop meat fine, or cut in very thin slices. Mix salad 
dressing or finely chopped mustard pickle with meat, or 
spread on slices. Put between slices of buttered bread. 

Date and Ginger Sandwiches 

2 cups chopped dates 2 cups chopped walnuts 

I cup finely chopped pre- Ginger syrup and lemon 
served ginger juice to moisten 

Mix ingredients thoroughly. Spread rye or barley bread 
with softened butter. Put together with fruit mixture. 



SANDWICHES 



189 



Cut in small sandwiches, about two inches long and one 
inch wide. 

Peanut and Raisin Sandwiches 

Mix together equal quantities of peanut butter and 
ground raisins; add about an eighth as much softened 
butter. Spread slices of rye, barley, or entire wheat bread, 
and put together in pairs. Quick bread not sweetened 
with molasses may also be used. 

Marmalade Sandwiches 

Spread bread with softened butter or margarine. Put 
together with stiff orange, apple, peach, or pear marmalade. 

Fig Sandwiches 

Chop stewed figs fine, add lemon juice if desired; 
spread on buttered brown bread. 

Fruit Sandwiches 

Put stoned prunes, seeded raisins, stoned dates, and figs 
through meat chopper. Add about one- fourth as much 
finely chopped walnuts as fruit mixture. Moisten to paste 
with orange or other fruit juice. Put between slices of 
buttered rye or entire wheat bread, with or without a layer 
of cream cheese. 



DESSERTS 

Chocolate Brown Bread Pudding 

2^ quarts stale, darkbread lo ounces chocolate 
crumbs or dried bread f quart corn syrup 

in small pieces 8 well-beaten eggs 

4 quarts hot milk i tablespoon salt 

Soak bread in hot milk until soft. Melt chocolate over 
hot water ; add enough milk from bread and milk mixture 
to pour. Mix ingredients well ; add five teaspoons vanilla. 
Turn into shallow baking dishes ; bake slowly one hour, 
or until knife comes out clean. Serve with sweetened 
whipped cream or with Russet Sauce. 

New England Pudding 

Use any good gingerbread or molasses cake recipe. 
Bake in layers ; put apple jelly between layers, and whipped 
cream or whipped cream substitute on top. 

Spiced Bread Pudding 

2\ quarts dried bread in i tablespoon salt 

small pieces i teaspoon nutmeg 

4^ quarts scalded milk i teaspoon cinnamon 

I pint mild molasses i teaspoon allspice 

I pint corn syrup i pint or more raisins 

Any kind of bread or muffins that is not burned or very 
dark from baking may be used. Soak in milk until soft ; 
add remaining ingredients, mix well, and turn into shallow, 

190 



DESSERTS 191 

oiled pans. Bake slowly an hour, or until knife comes 
out clean. Serve with whipped cream or a liquid sauce. 

Date. Cereal Pudding 

2 quarts cold cereal 2 teaspoons salt 

4 quarts hot milk 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

3 cups corn syrup i teaspoon nutmeg 
6 eggs, well beaten 2 packages dates 

Add milk gradually to cereal, beating constantly ; cool. 
Add beaten eggs, syrup, spices, and dates which have 
been washed, stoned, and cut in pieces. Bake slowly until 
knife comes out clean. Raisins may be used in place of 
dates. 

Cocoanut Custard 

5 quarts scalded milk 2 teaspoons salt 
3 to 4 cups cocoanut 15 eggs 

3 tablespoons cornstarch if cups sugar 

i cup cold water i tablespoon vanilla 

Scald cocoanut and milk together; add cornstarch, 
mixed to paste with cold water. Beat eggs; add salt, 
sugar, and hot milk, stirring all the time. Pour into 
custard cups, or into shallow baking dishes. Set dishes 
in pans of water, or on asbestos mats; bake very slowly 
until knife comes out clean. Three tablespoons soluble 
coflfee may be added to hot milk, and vanilla omitted. 

French Sandwiches 

Cut bread in one-third inch slices, of any desired shape 
and size. Spread with jam or marmalade, and put 
together in pairs. Dip in custard mixture; saute until 



192 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

delicately browned on both sides. Serve alone; with 
sweetened and flavored whipped cream; or with sweet 
fruit juice, using flavor that harmonizes with filling. 

Custard Mixture 

Beat ten eggs well; add one quart milk, one teaspoon 
salt, four tablespoons sugar, and one teaspoon vanilla. 

Rice Glace 

i^ cups rice f cup cold water 

3 quarts milk i cup boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons or more 

2 cups sugar vanilla extract 

6 tablespoons gelatine i pint or more thick cream 

Parboil rice in salted boifing water five minutes ; drain. 
Put into double boiler with hot milk, cook until soft ; add 
salt and sugar. Soak gelatine in cold water ; add boiling 
water, then stir into rice mixture. Add vanilla, and more 
sugar if needed. Fold in stiffly beaten cream, and chill. 
Serve alone, or with oranges cut in small pieces and 
sweetened slightly. 

Molded Rice 

1 quart rice 2^ quarts milk 

2 quarts water i tablespoon salt 

Cook rice in boiling water three minutes ; add salt and 
hot milk ; cook in double boiler until rice is soft and water 
absorbed. Turn into molds which have been dipped in 
cold water; let stand until cold. Serve with fruit sauce 
made by cutting fruit in small pieces, and letting it stand 
in sugar to make rather sweet. Fresh or canned peaches, 



DESSERTS 193 



apricots, strawberries, Loganberries, oranges, or stevred 
prunes may be used. 

Or garnish with fruit, and serve with it Fruit Sauce 
made with juice of fruit, or with a combination of juices. 



Richelieu Rice 

2^ cups rice 10 egg yolks 

2 quarts boiling water 3 tablespoons margarine 

3 quarts milk 2 cups raisins 

1 1 cups sugar i cup candied orange 

I tablespoon salt peel chopped 

Wash rice ; add to boiling water to which salt and fat 
have been added ; boil one minute. Add to hot milk, and 
cook in double boiler until rice is soft. Add sugar and 
fruit, and cook a few minutes longer. Turn rice mixture 
into well-beaten yolks, stirring constantly. Turn into 
molds which have been dipped in cold water ; chill. A little 
orange extract may be added if desired. Serve with plain 
cream or Soft Custard Sauce. 



Pompadour Rice 

I quart rice 1 or 2 cans pineapple 

I quart heavy cream 2 cups powdered sugar 

Cook rice as for boiled rice; be careful not to have 
kernels broken. Drain ; pour cold water through, to pre- 
vent packing while cooling. Cut pineapple in small pieces 
or shreds. Beat cream until stiff, but not dry. Fold 
cream and pineapple carefully into rice; chill. Serve in 
sherbet or punch glasses, with a candied cherry on top 
of each serving. 



194 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Victory Pudding 

2 J quarts milk i^ tablespoons salt 

2\ quarts boiling water 2 cups sugar 

3 cups rice 10 tablespoons cocoa 

Add washed rice to salted boiling water, boil three to 
five minutes ; add to hot milk, and cook in double boiler 
one and one-half hours. Mix sugar and cocoa, and stir 
into rice mixture ; cook thirty minutes longer. Add five 
teaspoons vanilla; chill. Serve with whipped cream or 
Marshmallow Sauce. 

Chocolate Tapioca 

2 cups tapioca ^ poimd chbtolate 
I quart cold water 8 egg whites 

3 quarts boiling water i table^oon vanilla 
I quart sugar or less i teaspoon salt * 

Soak one or more hours, in cold water, if it i^'pearl 
tapioca ; add cold water, and stir at once into boiling water, 
if it is minute tapioca. Cook until transparent in double 
boiler; add salt, sugar, and chocolate, and cook half an 
hour longer. Remove from fire, fold into stifHy beaten 
whites of eggs ; add vanilla, and chill. 

Lemon Tapioca 

4 quarts boiling water 2 cups minute tapioca 
I quart sugar or less 8 egg whites 

5 large lemons i^ teaspoons salt 

If pearl tapioca is used, soak in one quart of the water, 
cold, for an hour. Add remaining water, salt, sugar, and 
cook in double boiler until tapioca is transparent. Remove 



DESSERTS 19s 

yellow rind of two lemons, being careful not to get any 
of the white ; run a toothpick through the parings to hold 
them together. Cook with tapioca for five minutes, then 
remove. Pour hot mixture slowly over stiffly beaten 
whites, folding in whites as hot mixture is added. Add 
lemon juice, and stir occasionally while mixture is cooling. 
Serve with Soft Custard Sauce. 



Apricot Tapioca 

2 cups minute tapioca 2 pounds apricots 

3 quarts boiling water 2 quarts cold water 

2 teaspoons salt i quart sugar or Karo 

Add salt and boiling water to tapioca, and cook in 
double boiler until clear. Wash apricots; soak several 
hours, or over night, in cold water; cook until soft in 
double boiler or in fireless cooker. Add sugar or Karo 
syrup, or a mixture of the two, and stir into the hot 
tapioca. Cook a few minutes longer. Serve with cream, 
or with extra apricot juice as a sauce. 

Dried peaches may be used in the same way. 

Caramel Tapioca 

2 cups minute tapioca 3 cups figs 

I quart brown sugar 3 cups chopped nuts 

I pint corn syrup 4 quarts boiling water 

i^ teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons vanilla 

Wash figs, and soak in part of water for several hours, 
or over night. Cut in small pieces, and bring to boil with 
remaining water. Add tapioca, salt, sugar, syrup, and 
cook until tapioca is clear and figs are soft. Add coarsely 



196 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

cut nuts and vanilla; chill. Serve with whipped cream. 
If pearl tapioca is used, soak in same water with figs. 

Coffee Tapioca 

2 cups minute tapioca 3 cups sugar 

4 quarts boiling coffee 2 teaspoons vanilla 

l^ teaspoons salt 2 or more cups nuts 

Dissolve sugar and salt in coffee ; add tapioca, and cook 
in double boiler until clear. Add nuts and vanilla; chill. 
Serve with cream. 

Molded Snow 

2;J cups cornstarch i^ cups sugar 

1 cup cold water i teaspoon salt 

3^ quarts milk or water ij tablespoons vanilla 

Mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt; add water, and stir 
until smooth. Add hot milk or boiling water, stirring 
constantly ; cook in double boiler forty-five minutes. Add 
vanilla, turn into molds ; chill. Serve with Raisin, Choco- 
late, or Fruit Sauce. 

Apricot Blanc Mange 

2 pounds apricots i^ cups cornstarch 

3 cups sugar 2 teaspoons salt 
3 quarts hot milk 2J cups cold milk 

Wash, and soak apricots over night in water to barely 
cover. Cook in double boiler until soft. When nearly 
done, sprinkle two cups sugar over top. Drain off juice. 

Mix cornstarch to smooth paste with cold milk, remain- 
ing sugar, and salt; add hot milk, stirring constantly. 



DESSERTS 197 

Cook forty-five minutes in double boiler, stirring often. 
Add drained apricots, cook five minutes ; chill. Any pre- 
ferred fruit may be used in place of apricots. Serve with 
plain cream or fruit juice. 

Prune Blanc Mange 

5 quarts hot milk i^ cups sugar 

I pint cold milk i tablespoon salt 

2^ cups cornstarch 5 teaspoons vanilla 

Make as Plain Blanc Mange. When done, turn one- 
third into saucepan, and add three ounces chocolate, three 
or four cups stoned and cut cooked prunes, and six table- 
spoons sugar; cook one minute. Turn one-half white 
mixture into shallow, oblong pans, or any desired molds, 
smoothing and leveling top; cover with prune mixture. 
Spread remaining white mixture on top; chill. Serve 
with sweetened prune juice, or with thin cream. 

Caramel Blanc Mange 

4 quarts hot milk 2 cups cornstarch 

I quart caramel syrup 2 teaspoons salt 

I cup cold water ^ cup sugar 

To make the caramel syrup, caramelize one pint granu- 
lated sugar; add one quart boiling water and one pint 
dark brown sugar. Simmer until a rather thick syrup; 
add to hot milk. Mix sugar, salt, cornstarch, and cold 
water together; add to hot milk, stirring all the time. 
Cook forty-five minutes, stirring often; add two table- 
spoons vanilla ; chill. This may be varied by using maple 
syrup in place of caramel, or by adding three cups coarsely 
cut nuts. 



198 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Cocoanut Indian Pudding 

i^ cups corn meal i tablespoon salt 

f cup minute tapioca 3 cups molasses 

I cup shredded cocoanut f cup margarine 

^ quart brown sugar 6 quarts hot milk 

Mix together dry ingredients; add milk, stirring con- 
stantly, then margarine and molasses. Bake slowly until 
a knife comes out clean and there is much whey. It is 
well to allow four or five hours for baking. The whey 
or liquor serves as sauce, but whipped cream may be 
served also if desired. It should be warm rather than hot 
when served. 

Grape Nuts Pudding 

5^ quarts hot milk i cup com S3rrup 

I package grape nuts i tablespoon salt 

I cup coarse, dried i cup sugar 

crumbs 3 cups raisins 

6 eggs 

Add hot milk to grape nuts, let stand until cool; add 
sugar, salt, raisins, and beaten yolks. Fold in stiffly beaten 
whites just before baking. Pour into oiled baking dishes 
to depth of one or two inches ; bake in slow oven one hour, 
or until knife comes out clean. Serve with any desired 
liquid pudding sauce. 

Fruit Cobbler 

Use any Shortcake recipe for crust. Fill baking dishes 
half full of fruit, or more according to depth. Add sugar, 
if fresh fruit, and juice or water sufficient to prevent 
burning, but not enough to soak crust. Roll dough in 



DESSERTS 199 

iheet half an inch in thickness, cutting hole in center. 
Place on top of fruit; bake in hot oven thirty minutes 
or more. Or cut dough in rounds about three-fourths 
inch in thickness ; or make dough a trifle softer, and drop 
by spoonfuls on fruit. Serve with Fruit Sauce, or with 
cream. The amount of sugar used in the pudding will 
depend upon the sauce. If cream is used, more sugar 
will be required than for fruit sauce. Corn syrup may 
be used in place of all or part sugar, in which case less 
water or juice will be needed in baking dishes. 

Brown Betty 

6 quarts soft, stale, dark i^ cups margarine 

bread crumbs 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

2 quarts dried apples 2 teaspoons nutmeg 

r qt. or more corn syrup i teaspoon salt 

Wash apples, soak over night in water to barely cover ; 
cook until soft. Mix margarine with crumbs. Put into 
baking dishes a layer of crumbs, then a layer of apple; 
sprinkle with spices ; repeat. Add syrup and one or two 
cups apple juice. Cover with crumbs ; bake thirty minutes 
or more, adding more juice if too dry. Serve with Caramel 
Hard Sauce. 

Apple Ginger Pudding 

I quart pastry flour 4 beaten eggs 

2i cups barley flour 3 cups molasses 

4 teaspoons soda 3 cups brown sugar 

1 tablespoon ginger i teaspoon nutmeg 

2 cups sour milk f peck apples 

Sift together flour, soda, and ginger; mix molasses, 
milk, and beaten eggs ; combine mixtures, and beat well. 



200 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Peel, quarter, and core apples, and steam until soft; 
turn into shallow agate pans. Mix sugar and nutmeg, 
and sprinkle over apples. Spread first mixture over 
apples, and bake forty-five minutes or more. Serve with 
Brown Sugar Sauce, Caramel Hard Sauce, or sweetened 
whipped cream. 

Blueberry Pudding 

I J quarts barley flour or i cup sugar 

2 quarts pastry flour 2 teaspoons salt 

5 tbspns. baking powder 4 well-beaten eggs 

2 quarts fresh berries or i cup shortening 

2 small cans blueberries 3 cups milk 

Sift together all dry ingredients. Rub in shortening 
with tips of fingers. Mix milk and eggs, and add to first 
mixture. Drain blueberries very thoroughly, and add last. 
Bake in shallow cake pans. Serve with Fruit Sauce, or 
with Hard Sauce to which half a cup juice is used in place 
of hot water. 

Indian Cottage Pudding 

1 J quarts pastry flour 4^ cups milk 

f quart corn flour 5 well-beaten eggs 

5 tablespoons oil or fat 2^ cups sugar 

7 tbspns. baking powder f tablespoon salt 

Any kind of corn meal or corn flour may be used. One 
and one-fourth quarts barley may be used instead of 
pastry. Cream together shortening and half of sugar. 
Add remaining sugar to well-beaten eggs, and combine 
mixtures. Sift dry ingredients together, and add alter- 
nately with milk to first mixture. Pour into oiled pans 
to depth of half or two-thirds of an inch. Bake in mod- 



DESSERTS 20I 

erate oven. Serve with sweet Chocolate Sauce, Fluffy 
Fruit Sauce, or any sauce that is quite sweet. 

Shortcake I 

i^ quarts pastry flour i^ cups shortening 

i^ quarts white corn flour 4^ or more cups milk 

4 cup baking powder if tablespoons salt 

Sift dry ingredients together. Rub or cut in shortening ; 
add milk to make dough as soft as can be handled. Drop 
doughs often give best results. Bake in hot oven. 

Shortcake II 

li quarts pastry flour 2 tablespoons salt 

li quarts barley flour i^ cups shortening 

^ cup baking powder 4 or more cups milk 

Make and bake as Shortcake I. All or two-thirds barley 
may be used, but the more barley the darker the cake. 

Shortcake III 

2 quarts pastry flour 5 teaspoons salt 

1 pint potato flour i J cups shortening 

6 tbspns. baking powder 4 cups milk (about) 

Rice flour or cornstarch may be used in place of potato 
flour, and barley instead of pastry. Make and bake as 
Shortcake I. The dough should be as soft as can possibly 
be handled. 

Svpcet Shortcake 

If sweet cake is desired, add one or one and one-half 
cups sugar to any of above recipes. 



a02 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

These cakes may all be made with less shortening, but 
•f course will be less tender. The shortening may be any 
hardened vegetable oil or butter substitute. Water may 
1»e used instead of milk. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Wash and hull eight or more boxes strawberries, and 
eut in pieces. Add sugar or white corn syrup to taste, 
xnd let stand for an hour or so. It is a good plan to warm 
mixture slightly. 

Use any shortcake recipe. Roll to fit pie tins, or cut 
in small rounds, or drop by spoonfuls. The last method 
is particularly good if much com meal or corn flour is 
used in dough, for such mixtures need to be very soft. 
Bake in hot oven, split, and spread with butter substitute ; 
put fruit between layers and on top. Serve with juice of 
fruit, with or without cream. 

Any fresh or canned berries or fruits may be used im 
place of strawberries. 

Apricot Shortcake 
4 pounds dried apricots 3^ cups brown sugar 

Soak apricots twenty-four hours or more in water to 
cover; cook until soft, rub through strainer; add sugar, 
er four cups corn syrup. 

Use any shortcake recipe. Roll about three-fourths 
inch in thickness, cut in rounds, place in oiled pans just 
touching each other; bake fifteen to twenty minutes in 
hot oven. Split biscuit ; put apricot mixture between and 
on top. Dried peaches, green apple sauce, or other fruit 
may be used in place of apricots. 



DESSERTS SO| 

Apricot Dumplings 

Canned apricots, or stewed dried ones may be used, 
but do not put through strainer; add sugar or syrup if 
needed. Make dough as for shortcake, using any pre- 
ferred recipe. Roll dough one-third inch in thickness, 
cut in rounds three or four inches in diameter. Put two 
or three pieces drained apricot on each round, moisten, 
and press edges together like turnovers. Place in shallow 
agate pans, and nearly cover with boiling apricot juice. 
Bake in hot oven twenty to thirty minutes. Senre with 
juice as sauce. 

Fruit Dumplings 

Make as Apricot Dumplings. Use stewed and stoned 
prunes; fresh or canned peaches; a mixture of canned 
pineapple and fresh rhubarb; or quick-cooking apples. 
Use very little sugar in dumplings, but make juice rather 
sweet. 

Mock Plum Pudding 

I quart barley flour 5 eggs 

I quart corn meal 2f cups molasses 

I tablespoon salt 2| cups milk or water 

I tablespoon soda 2 J cups suet or 

I tablespoon cinnamon if cups drippings 

I teaspoon allspice i quart raisins 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Mix molasses, shorten- 
ing, milk, and well-beaten eggs; combine mixtures. Add 
raisins which have been washed, dried, and mixed with 
part of flour. Turn into oiled molds, and steam four 
hours. 



204 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

New Bellevue Pudding 

I quart molasses 4 teaspoons soda 

I cup drippings 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

2^ quarts barley flour 4 teaspoons cloves 

I quart milk or water i tablespoon salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients together. Melt shorten- 
ing ; add milk and molasses, combine mixtures ; turn into 
oiled molds, and steam two and one-half to three hours. 
Serve with Caramel, Brown Sugar, Ginger, Molasses, 
or other sauce. 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding 

6 eggs, well beaten 3 tbspns. baking powder 

3 cups brown sugar i quart pastry flour 

3 tablespoons margarine i quart barley flour 

3 cups milk 2 teaspoons salt 
li cups corn syrup i pound chocolate 

Cream margarine with one cup sugar ; add beaten eggs, 
then remaining sugar and syrup. Beat well, and add 
melted chocolate. Sift dry ingredients together, and 
add alternately with milk to first mixture. Put in oiled 
molds ; steam one and one-half to two hours. Serve with 
Brown Sugar or any desired sauce. 

Corn Meal Pie Crust 

li quarts pastry flour 4 teaspoons salt 

i^ quarts white or yellow 2f cups hardened vege- 
corn flour table oil 

Lard may be substituted by using two and two-thirds 
cups. Make as plain paste. Moisten just enough to form 



DESSERTS 205 

dough. The dough is more liable to tear in handling, but 
otherwise is no more difficult to handle than crust made 
of all wheat flour. Makes eight two-crust pies. 

Barley Pie Crust 

i| quarts pastry flour 4 teaspoons salt 

i^quartsbarley flour or 3 cups hardened oil or 

all barley flour 2§ cups lard 

Barley flour makes darker colored paste, otherwise it 
is very satisfactory. Make as plain paste. 

Three-in-One Paste 

I quart barley flour 3 cups hardened oil 

I quart rice flour 4 teaspoons salt 

I quart potato flour Cold water to moisten 

Pastry flour may be substituted for barley. Make as 
plain paste, using just as little water as possible in 
moistening. 

Cream Pie 

5 quarts scalded milk 3 J cups sugar 

I I quarts heavy cream i^ tablespoons salt 
i^ cups potato flour i cup cold milk 

Four and one-half cups bread flour may be used instead 
of potato. Heat milk in double boiler. Mix flour with 
cold milk; add to scalding hot milk, and cook thirty to 
forty minutes, stirring constantly until thick and smooth, 
then occasionally. Add salt, sugar, and cream. When 
cold, the filling should not be stiff enough to seem solid 
or gummy, but should be delicate and creamy in consist- 
ency. If necessary, add extra milk or cream. 



206 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Fit crust to pie tins, building up good edges ; prick all 
over bottom and sides with fork. Bake until done, but 
not brown. Put in filling, sprinkle with nutmeg; bake 
ten or fifteen minutes. 

One-Crust Apple Pie 

4^ cups apple i teaspoon salt 

I cup corn syrup i teaspoon cinnamon or 

i cup sugar nutmeg 

Pare, core, and slice apples. Fill deep pie tins ; sprinkle 
with sugar, corn syrup, salt, and spice. 

Roll pie crust to fit top of plates ; cover apples, and bake 
until apples are soft. Cool slightly, then turn upside down. 
Cut, and serve as two-crust pies, but with apple on top. 
May be served with whipped cream. If apples require 
long cooking, it is well to cook them partly before putting 
on crust. This mixture may be used in two-crust pies. 
Makes filling for one pie. 

Cocoanut Pie 

Make Cocoanut Custard mixture; pour into deep pie 
tins lined with paste. Bake slowly on lower grate until 
knife comes out clean. 

Squash or Pumpkin Pie 

I quart milk 2 tablespoons salt 

i^ qts. dark corn syrup 2 tablespoons ginger 

3 qts. cooked pumpkin 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

12 eggs, well beaten i teaspoon nutmeg 

Rub steamed or canned pumpkin through sieve. Mix 
salt and spices together, and add to pumpkin. Nutmeg 



DESSERTS 2©7 

may be omitted if preferred. Add remaining ingredients, 
and mix well. Fit crust to deep pie tins, building up good 
edges. Turn in pumpkin mixture, and bake slowly an 
hour, or until knife comes out clean. 

Mock Lemon Pie 

2 quarts buttermilk i6 eggs, beaten separately 
I J cups cornstarch ^ cup margarine 

I J quarts maple or dark ^ teaspoon salt 

corn syrup i| cups lemon juice 

Mix cornstarch with two cups cold water ; add to scakl- 
ing milk, stirring constantly until smooth and thick ; cook 
twenty minutes. Add gradually to yolks, then add remain- 
ing ingredients, and cook five minutes. 

Line pie plates with any preferred pastry, building up 
a good edge ; prick bottom and sides with fork, and bake 
until crisp, but not very brown. Turn in filling, cover 
with meringue, and bake slowly until brown. Meringue : 
Beat egg whites until stiff; add three- fourths cup sugar 
gradually, and one teaspoon lemon extract. Pile lightly 
on pies, leaving uneven surface. 

Orange Delight 

f cupgranulatedgelatine 5 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water 3 cups lemon juice 
3^ quarts boiling water 12 large navel oranges 

Soak gelatine in cold water twenty minutes; dissolve 
in boiling water. Add sugar and lemon juice; strain 
through cheesecloth wrung out of hot water. Pour, one 
inch deep, into large, shallow agate pans which have been 
dipped in cold water. Put in cold place to stiffen ; cut in 



208 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

inch cubes; pile lightly on plates or glass sauce dishes. 
Remove pulp carefully from sections of orange ; sprinkle 
with one cup sugar; let stand an hour or more. Place 
sections of orange on top of jelly; pour over whole a 
spoonful or two of orange juice. Serve without cream. 
If not sweet enough, use another cup sugar in jelly. 

Rhubarb Pie 

12 pounds rhubarb 8 eggs, well beaten 

2 quarts corn syrup i^ cups barley flour 

Wash rhubarb, removing any discolored portions of 
skin. Place on board, and with sharp knife cut in inch 
pieces. Cover with boiling water, let stand five minutes ; 
drain thoroughly. Mix flour, syrup, and beaten eggs. Fill 
pie plates with rhubarb, add syrup mixture; cover with 
crust, pressing edges firmly together. Bake in moderately 
hot oven until rhubarb is done. 

Banana Split 

Use one-half the proportions for jelly as given in 
Orange Delight. Unsweetened red cherry. Loganberry, 
or other fruit juice may be used instead of water, by omit- 
ting two cups lemon juice. Mold in half-inch sheets; 
cut in cubes. Split small bananas lengthwise, allowing 
one-half banana to each serving. Pile jelly cubes lightly 
on bananas. Put whipped cream on top; or pour over 
some sweetened fruit juice. 

Apricot Ice 

Cook canned apricots until very soft; put through 
coarse strainer, or crush until about consistency of apple 



DESSERTS 209 

sauce. Add no water or sugar. There should be about 
five and one-half quarts. If apricots are unsweetened, 
add sugar to make slightly sweet. Freeze as any ice. 

Loganberry Ice 

S quarts canned Logan- ^ cup lemon juice 

berry juice Sugar or syrup to taste 

Use the berries for pies, and the juice for Loganberry 
Ice. The amount of sugar depends upon amount used in 
canning. If berries are not sweetened at all, about a quart 
of sugar or corn syrup will be required. Freeze as any ice. 

Fruit Sherbets 

Use recipe for any kind of fruit ice. When half-frozen, 
add stiffly beaten whites of four eggs, to which four 
tablespoons powdered sugar have been added. Finish 
freezing, and let stand an hour or more to ripen. 

Popcorn Dainties 

I pint popcorn i teaspoon cream tartar 

1^ pounds maple sugar i J tablespoons butter 

1 4 cups whole milk i teaspoon maple flavor 

J teaspoon salt 

Pop one pint or more corn ; remove hard kernels. Boil 
sugar, milk, and cream tartar to soft ball stage; remove 
from fire ; add butter or butter substitute, salt, and flavor- 
ing. Pour over popped com, toss lightly in small clusters. 
Serve with or without rich milk or thin cream. If eaten 
without cream, pack in shallow, oiled pans and cut in 
squares. Brown sugar and vanilla may be used in place 
of maple. 



2I» MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

Corn Crisp 

1 pint popcorn 3 tablespoons margarine 

3 cups molasses -J cup sugar or 

I teaspoon salt i cup corn syrup 

Pop corn, and remove any hard kernels. Boil molasses, 
syrup, and margarine to soft ball stage ; add salt, and 
three-fourths teaspoon soda if desired. Mix with popped 
corn, and serve without shaping. Serve in cereal dishes 
with rich milk or thin cream. Corn Puffs may be used 
in place of popcorn. 

PUDDING SAUCES 
Chocolate Sauce 

8 ounces chocolate 4 cups sugar 

8 tablespoons margarine 2f cups water 

4 cups com syrup i tablespoon vanilla 

Melt chocolate over hot water; add fat, sugar, syrup, 
and water. Mix well, bring to boiling point; simmer 
fifteen minutes. Cool slightly before serving. 

Fruit Sauce 

2 quarts fruit syrup 4 tablespoons cornstarch 

3 tablespoons margarine i teaspoon salt 

If unsweetened fruit juice is used, add sugar or syrup 
to taste. Often a combination of juices is better than 
one kind alone, even when served with pudding made 
of one kind of fruit. Mix cornstarch with a little cold 
fruit juice; add boiling juice, salt, and fat; boil five 
minutes. Coloring may be added to give a more attractive 
appearance, but be very careful not to use too much. 
Shredded or finely cut fruit may be added if desired. 



DESSERTS 211 

Brown Sugar Sauce 

I quart brown sugar 6 tablespoons butter 

i^ quarts water ^ cup cornstarch 

i teaspoon salt i teaspoon cinnamon 

Mix sugar, cornstarch, and seasonings together. Add 
boiling water, boil five minutes ; add butter, and remove 
from fire. Serve warm. 

Cranberry Sauce 

i^ cups butter f cup water 

6 cups powdered sugar 3 cups cranberry juice 

Rub stewed cranberries through puree strainer, and 

use the mixture of juice and pulp. Cream butter; add 

sugar gradually, alternating with water. Beat well; 
add cranberry juice gradually. 

Raisin Sauce 

3 cups raisins 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

i cup brown sugar i| teaspoons vanilla 

i teaspoon salt i| quarts boiling water 

Mix cornstarch and sugar; add water gradually, stir- 
ring constantly. Add washed and seeded or Sultana 
raisins, simmer until raisins are tender; add salt and 
vanilla. 

Lemon Sauce 

2^ cups sugar i^ quarts boiling water 

:J cup cornstarch i teaspoon salt 

I cup margarine 2 teaspoons lemon extract 

Mix cornstarch and sugar; add to margarine, which 
has been stirred until creamy. Add boiling water, stirring 



212 MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 

constantiy ; boil five minutes, stirring often. Add salt and 
lemon extract. White corn syrup may be used in place 
of sugar. Mix cornstarch with cold water to paste; add 
three-fourths quart boiling water, and syrup; boil, and 
add remaining ingredients. 

Ginger Sauce I 

I quart brown sugar i cup vinegar or 

1 quart mild molasses i cup lemon juice 
i^ cups water 2 tablespoons ginger 
4 tablespoons margarine ^ teaspoon salt 

Mix sugar, salt, and ginger ; add molasses, fat, vinegar, 
and water ; simmer ten minutes. Serve hot. 

Ginger Sauce II 

2 cups butter i tablespoon lemon juice 
6 cups light brown sugar 2 tablespoons ginger 

Chop preserved ginger very fine, and mix with ginger 
syrup before measuring. Stir butter till creamy; add 
sugar gradually, beating hard. When smooth and creamy, 
add ginger, and slowly the lemon juice. 

Fluffy Fruit Sauce 

i| cups margarine 4 egg whites 

I J quarts powdered or ij quarts fruit pulp and 

• light brown sugar juice mixed 

Beat margarine to a cream ; add sugar gradually, then 
stifHy beaten whites ; and last, work in fruit pulp slowly, 
so as not to curdle mixture. Fresh, canned, or dried 
peaches and apricots, fresh or canned berries, or a mixture 
of orange juice and banana pulp, may be used. 



DESSERTS 213 

Russet Sauce 

^i cups margarine 5 teaspoons vanilla 

5 cups brown sugar i J cups cream or milk 

If margarine is very hard, rinse out bowl with hot 
water. Stir margarine until creamy ; add sugar gradually, 
beating hard until creamy. Add milk and flavoring slowly, 
to prevent curdling. Do not chill, as sauce should be of 
creamy consistency. 

Molasses Sauce 

f quart mild molasses 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

f quart boiling water 2 teaspoons mixed spice 
f quart brown sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

f cup margarine 6 tablespoons lemon juice 

Mix sugar, spices, and cornstarch together; add mo- 
lasses, margarine, and water; boil five minutes. Add 
more lemon juice or a little vinegar if needed. 

Maple Sauce 

Make as Brown Sugar Sauce, but omit cinnamon and 
add maple flavor. 

Maple Sugar Sauce 

3 cups maple sugar 6 egg whites 

6 tablespoons corn syrup 2 cups cream 
^ cup boiling water J teaspoon salt 

Boil sugar, corn syrup, and water almost to soft ball 
stage. Pour over stiffly beaten whites, stirring constantly. 
Cool, and fold in whipped cream. Thin cream may be 
used if necessary. 



INDEX 



Alada Rolls, 68 
Apple Amber, 6 

Celery and Raisin Salad, 165 

Ginger Pudding, 199 

Pie, One-Crust, 206 

Sauce Cake, 59 
Apples Baked in Syrup, 5 

Italian Style, s 

de Luxe, Baked, 5 

and Onions, Baked, 142 

Pickled, 6 
Apricot and Apple Jam, 4 

Blanc Mange, 196 

Dumplings, 203 

Ice, 208 

Salad, 164 

Shortcake, 202 

Tapioca, 195 
Apricots, Prunes and, 4 
Asparagus, Creamed Canned, 148 

Bacon Salad, 170 

Sandwiches, Hot, 188 
Baked Apples and Onions, 142 

Barley, 133 

Beans, New York, 155 
Soy, ISS 

Liver, 99 

Mackerel, Salt, 93 

Peas, Split, 150 

Polenta, 125 

Samp and Cheese, 118 

Squash in Shell, 153 

Tomatoes, 136 
Banana Cake, 52 

Filling, 62 



Banana Sandwich Salad, 169 

Split, 208 
Bananas, Cranberry, 2 

with Lemon Sauce, 3 

with Orange Sauce, -^ 

Sliced, 2 

with Sultana Sauce, 3 
Barley, Baked, 133 

Biscuit I, 33 ; II, 33 

Cream of, 134 

Doughnuts, 48 

Griddle Cakes, 30 

Muffins, 45 

Noodles, 121 

Pearl, 134 

Pie Crust, 205 

Popovers, 28 

Rolls, 19 

Soup, 77 

Sponge Cake, 54 

Sugar Cookies, 67 

Waffles, 31 
Bean Loaf, Lima, 127 

Rarebit, 156 

Salad, 176 
Beans, Baked New York, 155 
Soy, 15s 

Italian Style, 156 

Kidney, Scalloped, 151 

a la Monitor, 149 

String, Creamed, 148 
Beechcroft Salad, 169 
Beef Balls, Oriental Style, 98 

with Samp, 99 
Beets Pickled with Onions, 152 
Berkeley Salad, 169 



215 



2l6 



MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 



Berkshire Mufifins, 40 
Beth's Meat Loaf, 96 
Biscuit, Barley, I, II, 33 

Corn, 34 

Maple, 35 

Oaten, 33 

Rye, 32, 33 

Rye Meal, 21, 34 

Toast, 48 

War, 34 
Blanc Mange, Apricot, 196 

Caramel, 197 

Prune, 197 
Blueberry Pudding, 200 
Boston Roast, 130 
Bran and Barley Bread, i6 

Drop Cookies, 67 

Muffins, 45 
Date, 45 
Breads, with Wheat : Barley, 16 

Bran and Barley, 16 

Cereal, 18 

Coffee, 17 

Crumb, 18 

Date, 18 

Nut, Quick, I, 26 ; II, 27 
and Date, 27 

Oatmeal War, 15 

Potato, 13 

Raisin Rye, 15 

Rye I, II, 14 
and Potato, 15 

White War, 13 

Yami-Dami, 17 
Breads, Wheatless: 

Barley and Corn, 22 
Steamed, 26 

Bran, 23 

Brown I, II, 24 
Buckwheat, 25 
New England, 24 
War, 25 

Buckwheat, 23 

Corn, Fairy, 39 



Breads, Wheatless: 

Corn, Golden, 39 

Molasses, 37 

Spoon, 36 

Steamed, 25 

Date, 23 

Nut, 23 

Steamed, 26 

Oat, 22 

Raisin, 23 
Breakfast Cereals, 133 
Bretton Woods Dressing, 17S 
Broiled Salt Mackerel, 93 
Broth, Mutton, 80 
Brown Almond Sauce, 113 
Brown Betty, 199 
Brown Bread I, II, 24 

New England, 24 

Omelet, 74 

Toast, 48 
Brown Gravy, 114 
Brown Sugar Sauce, 211 
Brunswick Stew, 102 
Buckwheat Drop Cookies, 6C 

Griddle Cakes, 28 

Muffins, 43 

Waffles, 32 
Butter, Sardine, 182 

Watercress, 182 

Cabbage a la Fran;ais, 142 

Creamed, 147 

Rolls, 147 

Salad, French Style, 174 
Cake, Apple Sauce, S9 

Banana, 52 

Barley Sponge, 54 

Chocolate, 58 

Cocoanut, 53 

Corn Sponge, 55 

Coffee Spice, 59 

Columbia, 52 

Cream, 52 



INDEX 



217 



.Cake, Date, 57 

Golden Puff, 55 

Jelly, 52 

Layer, 52 

Maple Syrup, 51 

Marble, 50 

Molasses, 58 

Nut, 52 

Plain War I, II, III, 50 

Pork, 57 

Priscilla War, 60 

Raisin, 58 

Royal Sponge, 54 

Sour Cream, 55 

Spanish Corn, 53 

Sunshine, S3 

War Fruit I, II, 60 

White War I, II, 51 
California Mayonnaise, 179 
Caramel Blanc Mange, 197 

Tapioca, 19s 
Carrots, Glace, 137 

with Lima Beans, 138 

with Peas, 138 

a la Pompadour, 139 
Cauliflower au Gratin, 144 

Greens, 144 

Polonaise, 144 

with Turnip, 144 
Celery Salad, Stuffed, 167 

Sauce, IIS 

Stuffed, 154 
Cereals, Breakfast, 133 
Cheese and Corn Loaf, 129 

Loaf, 129 

Oysters, 46 

Salad, Prune and, 170 
Tomato and, 168 

Samp and, 118 

Sandwiches, 186 
Toasted, 184 

Sauce, IIS 

Sweet, 186 
Cherry Salad, 166 



Chicken a la King, 109 

Maryland, no 

Salad, 171 

Sandwiches, 188 
Hot, 183 

Scalloped, 109 
Chiffonade Dressing, 177 

Salad, 175 
Chili Con Came, 100 

French Dressing, 177 
Chocolate Brown Bread Pudding, 
190 

Cake, s8 

Cream Filling, 61 

Drop Cookies, 6s 

Gingerbread, 56 

Pudding, Steamed, 204 

Sauce, 210 

Tapioca, 194 
Chowder, Country, 81 

Parsnip, 76 

Salmon, 78 

Salt Fish, 78 

Vegetable, 80 
Cinnamon Toast, 47 
Clover Leaf Salad, 167 
Club Sandwiches, 187 
Cocoanut Cake, S3 

Custard, 191 

Filling, 62 

Frosting, 63 

Indian Pudding, 198 

Marguerites, 69 

Pie, 206 
Codfish, Savory Salt, 92 
Coffee Spice Cake, S9 

Tapioca, 196 
Columbia Cake, 52 

Cookies, 66 
Condensed Milk Dressing, 179 
Cookies, Barley Sugar, 67 

Bran Drop, 67 

Buckwheat Drop, 66 

Chocolate Drop, 65 



2l8 



MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 



Cookies, Columbia, 66 

Cottage Cheese, 68 

Fruit, 63 

Peanut, 64 

Surprise, 65 
Corn Biscuit, 34 

Bread, Fairy, 39 
Golden, 39 
Molasses, 37 
Spoon, 36 

California Style, 146 

Crisp, 210 

Dodgers, 36 

Doughnuts, 49 

Gems, 37 

Griddle Cakes, 29 

Muffins, Potato, 38 
Raisin, 38 

Mush, 124 

Noodles, 122 

Omelet, 74 

Pie Crust, 204 

and Potato Griddle Cakes, 30 

Puffs, 36 
Green, 38 

Rolls, Quick, 34 

Savory, 147 

Souffle, 130 

Sponge Cake, 55 

Waffles, 31 
Corned Beef Sandwiches, 188 
Country Chowder, 8i 
Country Club Sandwiches, 187 
Crackers, Date, 69 
Cranberry Bananas, 2 

Pudding Sauce, 211 

Relish, 7 

Sauce, 6 
Cream Cake, 52 

Filling, 61 

Pie, 205 
Creamed Fish, 86 

with Cheese, 87 

with Green Peppers, 87 



Creamed Fish with Mush- 
rooms, 87 

Parsnips, 145 

Peas, 149 

Radishes, 14S 

Salmon, 88 
Creole Rice, 118 

Samp, 118 
Cress Soup, Cream of, 77 
Crumb Griddle Cakes, 29 

Muffins, 44 
Cuban Pie, los 
Cucumber and Onion Sandwiches, 

I8S 
Cucumbers, Creamed, 135 

Stuffed, 13s 
Curried Eggs, 73 

Danish Beefsteak, 97 
Date Bran Muffins, 45 

Cake, 57 

Crackers, 69 

Cereal Pudding, 191 

and Ginger Sandwiches, 188 

Rye Muffins, 41 
Doughnuts, Barley, 48 

Com Meal, 49 
Dried Fruits, i 
Dumplings, Apricot, 203 

Fruit, 203 

Egg Plant, Scalloped, 139 

Egg Salad, Sardine and, 173 

Egg Sandwiches, 185 

Peanut Butter and, 1 84 

Eggs, Curried, 73 
in Potato Nests, 72 
Scalloped with Onions, 71 
Scrambled with Smoked Hali- 
but, 73 
Smothered, 72 

English Sandwiches, 188 

Fairy Com Bread, 39 



INDEX 



219 



Fat, Savory, in 

Fats : To deodorize and clarify, 
no 
Substitute, 9 
To try out, no 
Fig Sandwiches, 189 
Filling, Banana, 62 

Chocolate Cream, 61 

Cocoanut Cream, 62 

Cream, 61 

Fruit and Nut, 62 

Peach, 62 

Surprise, 65 
Finnan Haddie I, 90; II, 91 
Fish Cakes, 89 

Creamed, 86, 87 

Creole Style, 8s 

and Cucumber Salad, 172 

Dinner, New England, 92 

Fried, a la Duren, 86 

a la MacDermaid, 84 

a la Pierce, 84 

and Potato Scallop, 91 

Sauce, 114 

with Sauce Poulette, 85 

Scalloped, with Rice, 88 

Swedish Salt, 91 

Timbale, 88 
Fluffy Fruit Sauce, 213 
Frankfurts with Potato Salad, 173 
French Sandwiches, 191 
Frosting, Cocoanut, 63 

Maple, 61 
Frozen Fruit Salad, 167 
Fruit Cake, War, 60 

Cobbler, 198 

Cups, 7, 8 

Cookies, 63 

Dumplings, 203 

and Nut Filling, 62 

Sandwiches, 189 

Sauce, 210, 212 

Sherbets, 209 



Gingerbread, Chocolate, 56 

Indian, 56 

Scotch, s6 
Ginger Sauce I, II, 212 
Golden Corn Bread, 39 

Puff, S5 
Grapefruit Salad, 164 
Grape Nuts Pudding, 198 
Gravy, Brown, 114 
Greenbrier Salad, 168 
Green Corn Griddle Cakes, 3 1 

Puffs, 38 
Green Pepper and Peanut Saad- 

wiches, 183 
Greens, 140 
Griddle Cakes, Barley, 30 

Buckwheat, 28 

Corn, 29 

Com and Potato, 30 

Crumb, 29 

Green Corn, 31 

Rice, 30 

Hamburg Roast, 9S 

Ham Sandwiches, 188 

Hash, Vegetable, 153 

Hermits, Molasses, 64 

Hoe Cake, 37 

Hungarian Goulasch I, 96; II, 9f 

Ice, Apricot, 208 

Fruit, 209 

Loganberry, 209 
Indian Clover Leaf Rolls, 2» 

Cottage Pudding, 200 

Fondue, 132 

Gingerbread, 56 
Italian Sauce, 116 

Jam, Apricot and Apple, 4 
Jellied Vegetables, 154 
JeUy Cake, 52 



220 



MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 



Kalamazoo Relish, 182 
Kale, 141 
Kohl-Rabi, 141 

Scalloped, 141 
Konkee Noodle, 122 

Lamb, Oriental Style, 108 

Scalloped, 107 
Layer Cake, 52 
Lemon Sauce, 211 

Tapioca, 194 
Lentil Loaf, 128 

Soup, 77 
Lentils, Creole Style, 150 

Stewed, 150 
Lettuce Soup, 75 
Lima Bean Loaf, 127 
Lima Beans, Carrots with, 138 
Liver, Baked, 99 
Loganberry Ice, 209 

Macaroni Timbale, 121 
Macaroons, Oatmeal, 64 
Mackerel, Baked Salt, 93 

Broiled Salt, 93 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter, 116 
Manhattan Salad, 166 
Maple Biscuit, 35 

Frosting, 61 

Marguerites, 70 

Rosettes, 35 

Sauce, 213 

Sugar Sauce, 213 

Syrup Cake, 51 

Toast, 47 
Marguerites, Cocoanut, 69 

Maple, 70 

Marshmallow, 70 
Marlboro Muffins, 44 
Marble Cake, 50 
Marmalade Sandwiches, 189 
Marshmallow Marguerites, 70 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 178, 179, 
180 



Meat Loaf, Beth's, 96 

Pie Crust, 105, io6 

Sauces, 111-117 
Melon Salad, 165 
Mexican Rabbit, 157 
Midwinter Salad, 175 
Mint Jelly, 116 
Mock Lemon Pie, 207 

Mushrooms, 139 

Oysters, 136 

Plum Pudding, 203 
Molasses Cakes, 58 

Com Bread, 37 

Hermits, 64 

Sauce, 213 
Molded Snow, 196 
Muffins, Barley, 45 

Berkshire, 40 

Buckwheat I, II, 43 

Corn Meal, Raised, 21 

Crumb, 44 

Date Bran, 45 

Date Rye, 41 

Golden Com, 39 

Marlboro, 44 

Oat and Rice, 44 

Plain Bran, 43 

Potato, 42 
Corn, 38 

Quaker, 42 

Raisin Com, 38 
Rye, 41 

Rye I, 40 ; II, 41 

White Com, 40 
Mushrooms, Mock, 139 

Sauce, 114 

Scalloped, 152 
Mustard, Prepared, 117 
Mutton Broth, 80 

New Bellevue Pudding, 204 
New England Brown Bread, 24 

Fish Dinner, 92 

Pudding, 190 



INDEX 



221 



New England Scrapple, 127 
Noodle, Konkee, 122 
Noodles, Barley, 121 

Corn, 122 

in Cheese Sauce, 123 
Nut Cake, 52 

Loaf, 128 

Molasses Bars, 68 

Oat Cakes, 43 

Crackers, 46 

and Rice Muffins, 44 
Oaten Biscuit, 33 
Oatmeal Macaroons, 64 

War Bread, 15 
Ollapodrida, 123 
Omelet, Brown Bread, 74 

Corn Meal, 74 

Potato, 71 
Onions, Baked Apple and, 142 

Fried, 143 

with Nut Sauce, 143 
Orange and Chestnut Salad, 164 

Delight, 207 

Rolls, 35 
Oxford Sausage, 104 

Parsley Sauce, 114 
Parsnip Chowder, 76 
Parsnips, Creamed, 14s 
Paste, Three-in-One, 205 
Peach Filling, 62 

Salad, 164 
Peanut Cookies, 64 

Loaf, 132 

and Raisin Sandwiches, 189 
Peanut Butter Mayonnaise, 180 

Sandwiches, 183, 184 

Sauce, 117 

Soup, 79 
Fear Salad, 166 



Peas, Baked Split, 130 

Creamed, 149 

with Mint-Glazed Carrots, 138 

Souffle, 131 
Peppers StuflEed with Rice, 137 
Piersian Pilaf, 107 
Pickled Apples, 6 

Beets and Onions, 152 
Pie, Apple, One-Crust, 206 

Cocoanut, 206 

Cream, 205 

Mock Lemon, 207 

Pumpkin, 206 

Rhubarb, 208 

Squash, 206 
Pie Crust, Barley, 205 

Corn Meal, 204 
Pimento Sauce, 117 
Plymouth Succotash, 83 
Polenta, 125, 126 
Pompadour Rice, 193 
Pompeian Salad, 174 
Popcorn Crisp, 210 

Dainties, 209 
Popovers, Barley, 28 

Rye, 28 
Pork Cake, 57 

Pie, 104 

Stew, 103 
Potato Bread, 13 

Corn Muffins, 38 

Hot-Pot, 161 

Muffins, 42 

Omelet, 71 

and Onion Scallop, 161 

and Peanut Salad, 172 

Rolls, 19 

Salad, 173 
Hot, 173 

Stew, 81 

Wiggle, 1 57 
Potatoes a la Qifton, 160 

Curried, 159 

Italian, 160 



222 



MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 



Potatoes with Parsley Sauce, i6o 
Philippa, 159 
Scalloped with Ham, 161 
a la Virginia, 159 
Priscilla War Cake, 60 
Prune and Cheese Salad, 170 
Blanc Mange, 197 
Toast, 47 
Prunes and Apricots, 4 

Stuffed, 4 
Pudding, Apple Ginger, 1 99 
Blueberry, 200 
Brown Betty, 199 
Chocolate Brown Bread, 190 

Steamed, 204 
Cocoanut Custard, 191 

Indian, 198 
Date Cereal, 191 
Grape Nuts, 198 
Indian Cottage, 200 
Mock Plum, 203 
New Bellevue, 204 
New England, 190 
Rice Glace, 192 

Molded, 192 

Pompadour, 193 

Richelieu, 193 
Spiced Bread, 190 
Tapioca, Apricot, 195 

Caramel, 195 

Chocolate, 194 

Coffee, 196 

Lemon, 194 
Victory, 194 
Pudding Sauce, Brown Sugar, 211 
Chocolate, 210 
Cranberry, 211 
Fluffy Fruit, 212 
Fruit, 210 
Ginger I, II, 212 
Lemon, 211 
Maple, 213 

Sugar, 213 
Molasses, 213 



Pudding Sauce, Raisin, 211 

Russet, 213 
Puff Balls, Benzie Style, 154 
Pumpkin Pie, 206 

Quaker Muffins, 42 

Radishes, Creamed, 145 
Ragout of Veal, 103 
Raisin Cake, 58 

Corn Muffins, 38 

Rye Bread, 15 
Muffins, 41 

Sauce, 211 
Red Bunny, 158 
Rhubarb Pie, 208 
Rice Creole, 118 

Glace, 192 

Griddle Cakes, 30 

Molded, 192 

Pompadour, 193 

Rarebit, 123 

Richelieu, 193 

Waffles, 31 
Rissoto, 119 
Rolls, Barley, 19 

Corn, Quick, 34 

Indian Clover Leaf, ao 

Orange, 35 

Potato, 19 

Rye, 20 
Royal Sponge Cake, 54 
Roquefort Dressing, 177 
Russet Sauce, 213 
Russian Dressing, 179 
Rye Biscuit, 32, 33 

Bread I, II, 14 
Raisin, 15 

Flakes, 133 
Rye Meal Biscuit, Raised, 21 

Muffins, 40, 41 
with Raisins, 41 



INDEX 



323 



Rye Popovers, 28 
Rolls, 20 

Salad : Apple, Celery, and Raisin, 

Apricot, 164 

Bacon, 170 

Banana Sandwich, 169 

Bean, 176 

Beechcroft, 169 

Berkeley, 169 

Cabbage, French Style, 1 74- 

Celery, Stuflfed, 167 

Cherry, 166 

Chicken, 171 

Chiffonade, 17s 

Clover Leaf, 167 

Fish and Cucumber, 172 

Frankfurts with Potato Salad, 

173 
Frozen Fruit, 167 
Grapefruit, 164 
Greenbrier, 168 
Manhattan, 166 
Melon, 165 
Midwinter, 175 
Orange and Chestnut, 164 
Peach, 164 
Pear, 166 
Pompeian, 174 
Potato, Hot, 173 

and Peanut, 172 
Prune and Cheese, 178 
Sardine and Egg, 173 

and Tomato, 172 
Sunflower, 165 
Tomato and Cheese, 168 
Veal, 171 

Vegetable, 175, 176 
Salad Dressing, Bretton Woods, 
176 
California Mayonnaise, 179 
Chiffonade, 177 
Chili French, 177 



Salad Dressing, Condensed 
Milk, 179 
Mayonnaise, 178 
California, 179 
Peanut Butter, 180 
Roquefort, 177 
Russian, 179 
Swiss, 180 

Thousand Island, 180 
Vinaigrette, 178 
Salmon Chowder, 78 

on Waffles, Creamed, 88 
Salsify, Scalloped, 146 
Salt Fish Chowder, 78 
Savory, 92 
Swedish, 91 
Samp, Baked with Cheese, 118 
Creamed, 120 
Creole, 118 
Garden Style, 119 
with Ham, 120 
with Tomato, 120 
Sandwiches : Bacon, Hot, 188 
Cheese, 186 
and Nut, 186 
and Peanut Butter, 186 
Nut, Olive, and Pepper, 186 
Sweet, 186 
Toasted, 184 
Chicken, 188 
Hot, 183 
Club, 187 
Corned Beef, 188 
Country Club, 187 
Cucumber and Onion, 185 
Date and Ginger, 188 
Egg, 185 
English, 188 
Fig, 189 
French, 191 
Fruit, 189 
Green Pepper and Peanut 

Butter, 183 
Ham, 188 



224 



MORE RECIPES FOR FIFTY 



Sandwiches: Hot Beef, 183 

Marmalade, i8g 

Peanut and Raisin, 189 

Peanut Butter and Egg, 184 
Green Pepper and, 183 
and Onion, 184 

Sardine, 184 

Toasted Meat, 182 

Windsor, 185 
Sardine Butter, 182 

and Egg Salad, 1 73 

Sandwiches, 184 

and Tomato Salad, 172 
Sardines on Toast, 89 
Sauce, Cranberry, 6 

for Fish, 85, 86, 1 14 

for Meats, 111-117 

for Puddings, 210-213 
Sausage, Oxford, 104 
Savory Com, 147 

Fat, III 

Salt Codfish, 92 

Sauce, 115 
Scallop Soup, Cream of, 79 
Scalloped Eggs, 71 

Fish, 88 

Potatoes, i6i 
Scotch Gingerbread, 56 

Hot-Pot, 108 

Scrapple, 126 

Soup, 82 

Wafers, 46 

Woodcock, 73 
Scrambled Eggs, 73 
Scrapple, New England, 127 

Scotch, 126 
Sherbets, Fruit, 209 
Shortcake I, II, III, 201 

Apricot, 202 

Strawberry, 202 

Sweet, 201 
Shrimp Wiggle, 90 
Smoked Halibut a la Creme, 93 

Salmon en Casserole, 94 



Smothered Eggs, 72 
Soup, Barley, 77 . 

Cream of Cress, 77 
Scallop, 79 
Spinach, 76 

Lentil, 77 

Lettuce, 75 

Peanut Butter, 79 

Scotch, 82 

Swedish, 83 

Tapioca, 75 
Sour Cream Cake, 55 
Soy Beans, Baked, 155 
Spaghetti with Ham, 120 
Spanish Corn Cake, 53 

Polenta, 126 

Tripe, 98 
Spiced Bread Pudding, 190 
Spinach Soup, Cream of, 76 
Sponge Cake, Barley, S4 

Com, ss 

Royal, 54 
Spoon Com Bread, 36 
Squash, Baked in Shell, 153 
Stew, Brunswick, 102 

Pork, 103 

Potato, 81 
Strawberry Shortcake, 202 
String Beans, Creamed, 148 
Substitutes, 9 
Substitutions, Table of, 12 
Succotash, 83 
Summer Fruit Cup, 7 

Squash, 145 
Sunflower Salad, 165 
Sunshine Cake, 53 
Surprise Cookies, 65 
Swedish Salt Fish, 91 

Soup, 82 
Sweet Potatoes, Candied, 158 
Swiss Salad Dressing, 180 

Tamale Pie, 124 
Tapioca, Apricot, 19s 



INDEX 



225 



Tapioca, Caramel, 19s 

Chocolate, 194 

Coffee, 196 

Lemon, 194 

Soup, 7S 
Thousand Island Dressing, 180 
Three-in-One Paste, 203 
Timbale, Fish, 88 

Macaroni, 121 
Toast, Biscuit, 48 

Brown Bread, 48 

Cinnamon, 47 

Maple, 47 

Prune, 47 
Toasted Cheese Sandwiches, 184 

Meat Sandwiches, 182 
Tomato and Cheese Salad, 168 
Tomatoes, Baked, 136 

Stuffed, 143 
Tripe, Spanish, 98 
Turnips au Gratin, 142 

Veal Balls in Cream Sauce, 102 
Hearts en Casserole, loi 

Spiced, 100 
Ragout, French Style, 103 
Salad, 171 



Vegetable Chowder, 80 

Hash, 153 

Hot- Pot, 151 

Roast, 131 

Salad, 175, 176 
Vegetables, Jellied, 154 
Victory Pudding, 194 
Vinaigrette Dressing, 178 
Virginia WafiSes, 33 

WaiHes, Barley, 31 

Buckwheat, 32 

Corn, 31 

Rice, 31 

Virginia, 32 
War Biscuit, 34 

Bread, 13 

Cake, so 

Fruit Cake, 60 
Watercress Butter, 182 
White Corn Muffins, 40 
White Sauce I, iii ; II, 112; III, 

"3 
Windsor Sandwiches, 185 
Winter Fruit Cup, 8 

Yami-Dami Bread, 17 



