

■•'••■:l:''i5'V'lff:i' ; ' 




Class JTXJlSL 
Book, ^X^s ? 



Copyright ]^i 



CQFmiGHT DEPOSm 



THE MODERN CLUB 
BOOK OF RECIPES 



Contributed By Club Members 
And Their Interested Friends 



Compiled and edited by 

,^^^"^'^-^ Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

Chairman of Home Economics, Modern Club 




Philadelphia, Pa. 
THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY 

I921 



Copyright, 1921, by 
The Modern Club 



FEB 13 1922 



©n!.A654622 



•-vvO I 



't'^^ 

.€^5 



Affectionately dedicated 

to 

Our President 

MRS. HAROLD DeLANCEY DOWNS 

whose splendid leadership, unselfish devotion and untiring zeal 

have inspired 

The Modern Club 

with faith in its members, courage for any task 
and service to others 



FOREWORD 

A few places in the world are to be held holy because of the 
love that consecrates them and the faith that enshrines them. 
Their names are themselves talismans of spiritual beauty. Of 
these is Home. The strength of a nation is in the intelligent and 
well-ordered homes of its people. 

May this little book of tried and tested recipes do its bit in 
the home, according to its abilities, for each, according to his 
needs: and in so doing help to reach the goal of Home Economics; 
which is to develop every home into an institution that is eco- 
nomically sound, mechanically convenient, physically healthful, 
morally wholesome, mentally stimulating, spiritually inspiring, 
socially responsible; a center of unselfish love in the glory of 
serving our fellow-man. 

To attain this, the housewife must realize that mere house- 
keeping is a means to an end — a means to secure a finer develop- 
ment of individual life and more wholesome contribution to com- 
munity welfare. 

If this little book contributes to the happiness of a single 
home, it will not wholly have failed to realize the hopes cherished 
for it by the compiler. 

To the respective club contributors, by whose liberality so 
large a number of recipes are inserted, and to the many good 
friends who have further herein aided, I take this opportunity of 
repeating my grateful acknowledgments. 

Mercy Richards Essig 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Breads, Cereals and Sandwiches 1 

Hors-d'OEuvres 25 

Soup 33 

Fish, Oysters, Lobster, Terrapin and Crabs 49 

Entrees 71 

Meats, Poultry, Game and Eggs 83 

Vegetables 123 

Sauces 147 

Pickles and Relishes 161 

Salads and Dressings 173 

Cakes • 195 

Pastry, Pies and Puddings 235 

Ices 267 

Candies and Nuts 277 

Fruits and Vegetables (Preserved, Canned), Jellies and Jams 289 

Beverages 307 

Cookery for the Convalescent 315 

Miscellaneous 335 



INTRODUCTION 

The highest calling that can come to any woman is to make 
a Home. To this she must bring good sense, good temper and good 
management. As Ik Marvel said in his "Reveries of a Bachelor," 
" In her are met all the graces and the virtues of which as a bachelor 
I dreamed." To make these dreams of home and happiness come 
true, the woman of today has many things to help her, and one of 
these, well fitted to be her daily guide, is this Cook-Book that 
combines the valuable experiences of the splendid young house- 
keepers of The Modern Club. 

Isabel McIlhenny Nichols 

(Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols) 



A BIBLICAL BILL OF FARE 

Taken wholly from the Bible, a right royal banquet it would 
make. As will be seen, the courses number five. The candelabra 
and music are specified. Though in Palestine there is now no 
game, yet at this dinner quail and partridge are provided. 

A DINNER FROM THE BIBLE 

Spread a cloth of blue, and put thereon the dishes, and the spoons, and 
the bowls, . . . with the bread that is in the basket. — Numbers iv, 7, and 
Leviticus viii, 31. 

Salt without prescribing how much, . . . and a little oil in a cruse. — 
Ezra vii, 22, and I Kings xvii, 12. 

Bright shining of a candle doth give thee light. — Luke xi, 36. 

Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner. — 
Matthew xxii, 4. 

Let us eat, and be merry. — Lulce xv, 23. 

A feast is made for laughter, wine maketh merry. — Ecclesiastes x, 19. 

Ye hear ... all kinds of music. — Daniel iii, 5. 

GRACE 
Give us this day our daily bread. — Matthew vi, 11. 

SOUP \ 

Pour out the broth. — Judges vi, 20. 

Feed me . . . with . . . pottage. — Genesis xxv, 30. 

Eat this roll. — Ezekiel iii, 1. 

Use a little wine for thy stomach's sake. — I Timothy v, 23. 

FISH 

We remember the fish, which we did eat. — Numbers xi, 5. 

They gave him a piece of a broiled fish. — Luke xxiv, 42. 

Bring of the fish which ye have now caught. — John xxi, 10. 

Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine. — ^John ii, 10. 

ENTREMETS 

Hare. — Leviticus xi, 6. 

Chickens. — Matthew xxiii, 37. 

Besides harts, . . . and fatted fowl. — I Kings iv, 23. 

Kidneys. — Deuteronomy xxxii, 14. 

The wine is red. — Psalms Ixxv, 8. 

Olives. — Micah vi, 15. 

Give me ... a little water; . . . for I am thirsty. — Judges iv, 19. 



ROAST 

All manner of bake-meats. — Genesis xl, 17. 

Thou mayst kill and eat ... of the roebuck. — Deuteronomy xii, 15. 
Ye shall eat . . . the wild goat, . . . and the wild ox. — Deuteronomy 
xiv, 4, 5. 

Cause the strong wine to be poured. — Numbers xxviii, 7. 

VEGETABLES 

Take . . . unto thee wheat, lentiles, . . . and millet. — Ezekiel iv, 9, 
(They) brought . . . parched corn and beans. — II Samuel xvii, 28. 
After that, the full corn in the ear. — Mark iv, 28. 

We remember . . . the cucumbers, . . . and the leeks, and the onions, 
and the garlick. — Numbers xi, 5. 

GAME 

Partridges. — ^Jeremiah xvii, 11. 

Two young pigeons. — Leviticus v, 7. 

And he brought quails. — Psalms cv, 40. 

I would cause thee to drink spiced wines. — Canticles xvii, 2. 

Carry these ten cheeses unto the captain. — I Samuel xvii, 18. 



GRACE BEFORE MEAT 

Morning 

Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee for Thy care during 
the hours of the night and for the morning light ; for the fellowship 
of love, and for these. Thy mercies. Keep us throughout this 
day in purity of heart and give to us the spirit of good-will to 
all. In Jesus' name. — Amen. 

Noon 

Bless to our use, our Father, these tokens of Thy loving 
care. Give us grateful hearts for all Thy gracious kindness. 
Help us to be worthy of the great love bestowed upon us, and lead 
us into unselfish service. For our Saviour's sake. — Amen. 

Evening 

Our Father, with the closing of the day we offer Thee 
our grateful love. If we have sinned, forgive us in Thy great 
mercy. May Thy Spirit dwell in our hearts. May these 
tokens of Thy favor strengthen us for every duty of life. May 
Thy peace come with the shadows of the night. For Jesus' sake. — 
Amen. 

Rev, Charles Atwood Campbell 



We thank Thee for this place in which to dwell; for the love 
that unites us; for the peace accorded to us this day, for the hope 
with which we expect the morrow; for the health, the work, the 
food, and the bright skies that make our lives delightful; to our 
friends in all parts of the earth .... Give us courage, and 
gaiety and the quiet mind. Spare to us our friends, soften to us 
our enemies. Bless us, if may be, in all our innocent endeavors. 
If may not, give us strength to encounter that which is to come, 
that we be brave in peril, constant in tribulation, temperate in 
wrath, and in all changes of fortune and down to the gates of 
death loyal and loving one to another. 

R. L. Stevenson 



BREADS, CEREALS AND SANDWICHES 

Man shall not live by bread alone. — Matthew iv, 4. 



BREADS 



BREAD, No. 1 



2 cups warm milk or water 1 tbsp. lard or butter 

2 tsp. salt y-i c^e compressed yeast 

Sugar Flour 

Put the water or milk, salt, sugar and lard into a bowl. Dis- 
solve the yeast in warm water, add the flour gradually, and mix 
with a spoon. When stiff enough to handle, turn it out on a floured 
board and knead until soft and elastic. Put it back into the bowl, 
cover tightly and let it rise in a warm place until double its bulk ; 
then divide into loaves or shape into biscuit. Allow these to rise 
in the pan in which they are to be baked. Cover the bread and 
again allow it to double in bulk. Bake loaves about 1 hour in a 
hot oven. Biscuits require more heat than loaves of bread. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BREAD, No. 2 (Drexel Institute) 

2 cups milk or water 1 tsp. or more sugeu- 

1 tbsp. fat V^ cake yeast 

IV2 tsp. salt Flour 

Heat the milk or water, melt the butter in it, add the salt. 
While the milk is cooling, dissolve the yeast in >^ cup of lukewarm 
water, add it to the lukewarm milk, then add flour enough to make 
a batter. Beat until the flour is thoroughly mixed. Allow it to 
rise, then add more flour and knead on a floured board. Return 
to the pan and allow to stand until double its bulk. Place in loaves 
in a pan, and when raised bake it in a hot oven for 1 hour. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BREAD ROLLS 

1 pt. scalded milk 14 yeast cake if mixed at night 
1 tbsp. butter or 

1 tbsp. sugar V^ cake if mixed in morning 

1 tsp. salt Flour 

Pour the hot milk on the butter, salt and sugar. When luke- 
warm add the yeast which has been dissolved in warm water. 
Add 3 cups of flour to make a soft sponge, beat and put away to 
rise; when light add flour to make a stiff dough, and knead until 
smooth. Let it rise until double its former bulk. Knead again 

1 



THE MODERN CLUB 



and roll the dough yi inch thick. Lift it from the board and let it 
shrink so that the rolls may be of uniform shape. Cut with a 
round or oval cutter. Place a bit of butter near the edge of the 
dough, then fold so that the edges are even. Press the roll on the 
straight side to prevent its separating as it rises. Place the rolls 
to rise, and when light bake in a hot oven. This dough may also 
be used for bread sticks. Contributed 



BREAD STICKS 



1 cup milk (scalded) V^ tsp. salt 

14 cup butter Vi yeast cake 

1 tbsp. sugar White of 1 egg 

About 4 cups flour 



Add the salt, butter and sugar to the hot milk, and when luke- 
warm add the yeast which has been dissolved in warm water. 
Add the beaten white of the egg and flour to make a stiff dough. 
Knead until smooth, and let it rise until double its former bulk. 
Knead again, then shape into sticks. Roll a small piece of dough 
into a ball, then into a stick, which should be a foot long and 
about the diameter of the little finger. Place in bread-stick pans 
or on iron sheets, and let the sticks rise until light. Bake in a 
moderate oven until brown. Contributed 

BROWN BREAD, No. 1 

1 pt. sweet milk 2 tsp. soda 

1 cup molasses V2 tsp. baking powder 

3 cups Graham flour 1 tbsp. butter 

1 cup raisins 1 tsp. salt 

Bake in 3 one-pound baking powder cans for two hours in 
slow oven. 

Mrs. J. Howard Pew 

BROWN BREAD, No. 2 

1 qt. sour milk 1 pt. Graham flour 

1 qt. Indian meal 1 cup molasses 

2 tsp. soda mixed with molasses 
Steam 4 hours. 

Mrs. Herbert Fox 
2 



BREADS 



BROWN BREAD, No. 3 



1 cup molasses 1 tsp. salt 

2 cups buttermilk or sour milk 2 cups Graham flour 
1 tsp. soda, dissolved in sour milk 1 cup corn meal 

Mix thoroughly and beat. Grease pans well and steam for 
3 hours. Mrs. Ernest T. Trigg 

WHOLE WHEAT OR GRAHAM FLOUR BREAD 

Use whole wheat instead of white floiir, or use one-half 
white and one-half whole wheat or Graham flour. A second 
method is to mix the bread very soft, not kneading it, and pour 
it into the pans in which it is to be baked, allowing it to rise in the 
pans. It should be baked in a more moderate heat than white 
bread. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BUNS 

1 cup milk (scalded) V4 ^sp. salt 

3 tbsp. sugar Vi yeast cake 
1 egg 2 cups flour 

Make a sponge with the above ingredients. Beat it and when 
light add flour to make a stiff dough. Knead this and let it rise 
until double its former bulk, then add % cup butter (softened), 
y2 cup currants, % tsp. cinnamon or nutmeg. Let it rise again 
until light, then shape into small round cakes, and place them in 
mufhn pans to rise. When light bake in a moderate oven. When 
the cakes have baked for 15 minutes glaze them with a mixture 
of milk and sugar (^ tbsp. sugar, % cup milk) and repeat this 
every 5 minutes until they are done. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FRENCH ROLLS, No. 1 

1 pt. milk 1 yeast cake 

Vi lb. lard 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 tsp. salt 

Warm milk till lard melts. Mix all together and knead to a 
soft loaf. Let rise 2 hours. Cut out in circles, spread with butter, 
lap over. Let stand in pans till light and bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 
3 



THE MODERN CLUB 



FRENCH ROLLS, No. 2 

1 pt. sweet milk 1 tbsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter (or butter and lard 1/2 yeast cake (dissolved in % cup 

mixed) of warm water) 

2 tbsp. sugar 3 eggs 

Enough flour to make soft dough 

Break the eggs in a large bowl. Beat very light. Add butter, 
mix well; scald two-thirds of your milk, then with the sugar and 
salt mix in enough flour (sifted) to make a sponge ; mix all together 
and beat constantly so that the milk will not cook the eggs. When 
your sponge is smooth add the rest of the milk and the yeast and 
set into a warm place to lighten. When very light add enough flour 
to make your soft dough, kneading thoroughly and keeping the 
hands covered with butter all the time. Set to rise again. After 
this second rising mold into small round rolls that are placed well 
apart in a big baking pan. And when these have risen to the 
proper size bake in a very hot oven for 15 minutes. If these rolls 
are wanted for supper or for afternoon tea instead of for breakfast, 
they may be made in the early morning instead of over night. 

Miss Violette T. Haines 



NUT BREAD, No. 1 

1 egg 3 cups floiur 

1 cup sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup milk 1 cup chopped English walnuts 

Pinch of salt 

Mix the above ingredients and let rise 20 minutes. Bake 1 
hour. This makes one loaf. 

Mrs. F. R. Savidge 



NUT BREAD, No. 2 

4 cups flour 1 egg 

1 cup sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

IV2 cups milk 1 tsp. salt 

1 cup nuts, chopped 

Let rise yi hour. Bake \yi hours in moderate oven. 

Mrs. F, Dinwiddie Walker 
4 



BREADS 



NUT BREAD, No. 3 



2 cups flour % cup English walnuts, chopped 

Vi cup sugar 3 tsp. baking powder 

Salt 1 egg 

1 cup sweet milk 

Sift flour, sugar, salt and baking powder. Add eggs and milk ; 
beat for 5 minutes; add walnut meats, let rise 20 minutes. 

Mrs. George U. Rehfuss 



NUT BREAD, No. 4 

2V2 cups flour 1 cup milk 

3 level tsp. baking powder 2 eggs 

1/2 cup sugar 1 large cup chopped English walnuts 

Bake loaf 1 hour in moderate oven. 

Mrs. C. H. Landenberger, Jr. 



CREAM MUFFINS 

1 pt. cream 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs 2 tsp. salt 

3 cups sifted flour 1 tbsp. melted butter 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and add them to the cream; add 
this gradually to the flour, beat well and let stand 15 minutes; 
then add the salt, melted butter, the whites of the eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth, and the baking powder. Mix well and bake in a quick 
oven 25 minutes. 

Miss Marie A. Jones 

QUICK MUFFINS 

1 tbsp. butter (not heaping; too Whites of 4 eggs, beaten stiff 

much butter spoils the taste) 2 small cups flour (bread) 

2 cups milk 1 tsp. baking powder 

Mix together all the ingredients save the eggs; then fold in 
the whites of eggs; do not stir. Make into thin dough ; if too stiff, 
the muffins will not be so nice. Bake in rings filled not more than 
half full, on griddle, greased with beef drippings or fat salt pork. 

Mrs. Edward Bok 
5 



THE MODERN CLUB 



CINNAMON ROLLS 

Add to soft white bread dough, yi cup butter, 1 egg and yi cup 
sugar. Roll out >^ in. thick; spread with butter, cinnamon and 
brown sugar. Roll and cut like a jelly cake. Put in pans. When 
risen put butter, cinnamon and sugar on them and bake in a hot 
oven. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BEDFORD ROLLS 

Vz pt. milk 1 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. lard 1 tsp. sugar 

Vz yeast cake 

Melt lard and milk together. Make a soft batter. Add yeast 
dissolved in warm water. In 5 hours this will be as light as a 
feather. Cut with cake tins; do not handle much. Put into 
greased pans, not touching each other. Bake 20 minutes in hot 
oven. This amount will make a dozen or more rolls. 

Miss Violette T. Haines 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 pt. dry bread soaked in 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup milk 1 cup corn meal 

1 cup molasses 1 cup white flour 

Vz tsp. salt 

Add 1 cup raisins if desired. Steam 5 hours, 

Mrs. J. Clifford Jones 

BROWN BREAD, No. 1 

2 cups Graham flour 1 cup molasses 

1 cup wheat flour IV2 tsp. baking soda 

1 cup com meal 1 tsp. salt 

3 cups sour milk or buttermilk 

Stir the soda with the milk. Steam Zyi hours. 

Mrs. Pennington H. Way 

BROWN BREAD, No. 2 

1 egg 2 tsp. baking powder 

Vi cup brown sugar Vz tsp. salt 

Vi cup New Orleans molasses 2 cups bran flour 

1 cup milk 1 cup Graham flour 

Vz cup white flour 
6 



^____ BREADS 

Mix in order given and bake in slow oven 1 hour. Take half 
recipe for muffins in gem pans for breakfast. 

Miss Violette T. Haines 

BROWN BREAD, No. 3 

4 cups rye meal 1 tsp. salt 

2 cups com meal 1 cup molasses 

3 tsp. soda 4 cups sour milk 

Put into a tightly covered mold which has been greased. Cook 
over steam 6 hours, then dry in the oven for a few minutes. Serve 
hot, cutting the loaf across the mold. Oysters are nice served 
with brown bread. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

TEA ROLLS 

1 qt. flour 1 rounded tbsp. lard 

1 tsp. salt (a little more than level) 3^ yeast cake 

1 tsp. sugar 1 medium size potato 

Work lard well through flour. Slice potato thin and more 
than cover with water. Boil until well done and let cool to a tem- 
perature a little warmer than lukewarm. Work potato through 
a sieve into flour; add yeast which has been softened in warm 
water and enough of the potato water to make a dough soft 
enough to just escape clinging to hands. Knead thoroughly 
(about 20 minutes). Grease dough and make a hole in top with 
finger. Put a cloth over vessel and a top and put to rise in a warm 
place not later than 10 a. m. in winter. If it does not seem to 
rise, set vessel in water hot enough to bear hand in. Work out 
at 3 p. M. Miss Irene C. Eisenbrey 

BISCUITS 

3 cups flour 1 egg 

31/2 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. sugar 

V2 tsp. salt Milk 

Beat up the egg, stir in the sugar and enough milk to wet 
flour. Melt a little butter and when you cut biscuits dredge the 
top before putting in oven. Bake about 10 or 15 minutes in a hot 
oven. Avoid much handling. Mrs. xAlRthur L. Bunting 

7 



THE MODERN CLUB 



CINNAMON BUNS 

2 cups scalded milk 1 tsp. salt 

1 yeast cake dissolved in Vi cup Flour 

lukewarm water 3 tbsp. butter 

3 tbsp. sugar 

Add butter, sugar and salt to milk; when lukewarm add 
dissolved yeast cake and 3 cups flour. Beat thoroughly, cover, let 
rise until light (about 3 hours); cut down and add enough flour 
to knead (about 3 cups). Let rise again, toss on slightly floured 
board, knead as for bread and divide in two. Roll out thin (about 
% inch); spread with melted butter, sprinkle generously with 
sugar, cinnamon, raisins (currants and bits of citron may be added) ; 
roll up in one long roll and cut into 1-inch pieces. Set in square cake 
pan that has been greased and has yi cup brown sugar and yi cup 
water melted in the bottom. Let rise again until light and bake 
like bread — from 30 to 40 minutes. Mrs. Fletcher Stites 

GOLDEN CREAM TOAST 

Hard-boil 6 eggs. Chop whites and press yolks through a 
sieve. Make sauce, using 1 tablespoonful each of butter and flour 
added to a cupful of milk. When well thickened add chopped 
whites, season with salt and pepper. Spread this on toast, cover- 
ing with the mashed yolks. Mrs. Penrose Robinson 



POPOVERS, No. 1 



1 cup milk 2 eggs 

1 cup flour y-i tsp. salt 

Bake half an hour or so in moderate oven, in small brown 
bowls half full. Miss Alice L. Van Lennep 

POPOVERS, No. 2 

1 egg Vi tsp. salt 

Butter, size of a walnut y-i cup milk 

V2 cup water 1 cup flour 

Beat eggs light together; put in the milk, add flour, water, 
salt and melted butter. Heat the gem pans, put half full of batter. 
Bake 20 to 30 minutes. Miss Alice L. Van Lennep 



BREADS 

BREAKFAST BISCUIT 

2 cups flour Pinch of salt 

IV2 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. butter 1 cup milk 

Sift baking powder, sugar and salt with the flour. Work but- 
ter in very lightly, stir in milk, roll gently, cut into biscuits and 
bake in quick oven 15 minutes. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

SWISS BREAKFAST CAKE 

1 egg Salt 

34 cup sugar Butter, size of English walnut 

1 cup milk 2 tsp. baking powder 

Flour 

Use egg well beaten, add sugar, salt, and milk with butter, 
or y2 cup of cream in place of milk and butter ; add baking powder 
and flour to make batter about like cake. After putting in pan, 
sprinkle groimd cinnamon plentifully over the top, also a little 
sugar. Bake in a quick oven about 20 minutes. It comes out 
very light if right quantity of flour is added. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Edward S. Crocker 

HOMINY BREAKFAST CAKES 

1 cup cold cooked hominy 2 eggs 

*4 cup bread flour 1 tbsp. melted butter 

1/2 tsp. salt Milk 

Mix the hominy with the flour and add enough milk to make 
a stiff batter. Add the beaten egg yolks, the melted butter, salt 
and lastly the stiffly beaten whites. Cook slowly on a hot greased 
griddle until golden brown. This makes enough to serve three. 

Mrs. Charles S. Barnes 

HUCKLEBERRY MUFFINS 

IV2 cups flour 2 eggs 

1 scant half cup butter 1 cup huckleberries 

V2 cup sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs beaten together until 
light, then flour, reserving enough to flour berries, add baking 
powder. Fill greased gem pans and bake 15 minutes. 

Mrs. Harold DeLancey Downs 
9 



THE MODERN CLUB 



POPOVERS 

2 cups flour 2 eggs 

V2 tsp. salt 2 cups milk 

Use iron gems or muffin rings ; place in oven to heat ; grease 
when hot. Beat hard with Dover egg-beater before putting in 
pans. Fill about one-half full. Put immediately in hot oven 
and bake 30 minutes. Lower heat during last half of baking. The 
secret of good popovers is in having hot pans and oven. 

Helen M. Wright 



BRIGHTON ROLLS 

4 eggs % lb. flour 

1 pt. milk A little salt 

Beat eggs for one minute, add milk, flour, salt and stir well. 
The mixture will have consistency of a batter. Pour in well- 
greased roll molds, fill one-third full and bake for 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Godfrey N. Degerberg 



BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

2 cups flour 2 tbsp. lard or Crisco 

4 tsp. baking powder % cup milk 

yi tsp. salt 

Mix dry ingredients and sift, work lard in, add milk. Toss 
on board and roll out three times, cut with biscuit cutter, bake in 
quick oven on greased tin, about 12 minutes. 

Mrs. J. Leslie Davis 

GRAHAM GEMS 

1 cup milk 1 tbsp. butter 

1 egg 1 V2 cups Graham flour (or use one- 

1 tbsp. sugar half white) 

IV2 tsp. baking powder 

Bake in gem pans in a hot oven. 

N. M. Johnson 
Through Mrs. Edward E. Montgomery 
10 



BREADS 

CORN BREAD, No. 1 

2 cups flour Va tsp. salt 

iVz cups com meal 3 tsp. baking powder 

Yz cup sugar 1% cups milk 

1 tbsp. butter and lard, melted 

Bake 20 minutes in shallow pan. 

Miss Mary W. Lovell 

SPOON CORN BREAD, No. 2 

1 pt. milk 4 eggs 
34 cup yellow com meal Salt 

Scald milk, stir into it the yellow corn meal; continue stirring 
until it thickens. Remove from fire and add yolks of eggs; add 
beaten whites and salt. Bake 20 minutes. 

Mrs. F. R. Savidge 

CORN BREAD, No. 3 

V2 cup soft Virginia com meal 1 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs, beat in bowl Pinch of salt 
1 pt. milk Butter 

Mix corn meal and baking powder in the milk, add salt. 
Put lump of butter in earthen bowl and get hot enough to melt. 
Put tablespoonful of melted butter on mixture and leave the rest 
of the butter in bowl. Bake }4 hour. 

Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

CORN BREAD, No. 4 

1 egg 1 cup sour milk 

1 tbsp. butter 1 cup flour 

Yz cup sugar 1 cup com meal 

1 tsp. soda 

Mix butter, sugar and egg, beat until light, add milk with soda 
dissolved in it, then the flour and corn meal. Bake in a hot oven 
about 20 minutes. Miss Marian L. Haines 

CORN MEAL CAKES 

1 cup corn meal IY2 cups flour 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. butter 

2 cups milk 4 tsp. baking powder 

11 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Beat up eggs, add milk, stir into corn meal dissolved in 1>^ 
cups of boiling water, add flour, butter and baking powder; after 
a few cakes have been made, add one or more teaspoons of baking 
powder. Miss Dorothy H. Martin 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

V2 cup com meal y-i level tsp. salt 

IV^ level cups flour 1 egg and 1 yolk 

4 level tsp. baking powder % cup milk 

Va cup sugar 3 tbsp. melted shortening 

Sift the dry ingredients together twice; beat the egg, add 
the milk and stir into the dry ingredients; continue to stir until 
thoroughly mixed; add the shortening and beat vigorously. 
Dispose in a hot, well-greased iron muffin pan. Bake about 
25 minutes. Mrs. G. U. Rehfuss 

VIRGINIA SPOON CORN BREAD 

2 cups Virginia com meal 1 tsp. salt 

1 pt. milk 1 rounded tbsp. shortening 

2 eggs 1 light tsp. baking powder 

Beat eggs light. Sift com meal, salt and baking powder 
together. Add to this the eggs and milk alternately. Melt the 
shortening and add to it, then bake till done. 

Miss Mary W. Lovell 

BRAN MUFFINS 

2 cups bran IV2 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup flour V^ tsp. soda 
y-i cup molasses 1 cup raisins 

1/4 cup sugar Milk to moisten 

Bake 20 minutes. 

Mrs. G. U. Rehfuss 

BRAN MUFFINS 

2 cups Kellogg's bran V^ cup molasses 
% cup flour 1 tsp. soda 

V2 tsp. salt 

Bake 20 minutes in muffin pans. 

Evelyn Merwin 
12 



BREADS 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

1 cup Graham flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

y^ tsp. salt 2 tsp. sugar 

3/4 cup white flour 1 egg 

1 cup milk 

Mix ingredients together. Beat up the egg, and add to cup 
of milk and stir into dry mixture. Bake well in hot oven 25 
minutes. Miss Mary W. Lovell 

GRAHAM PUFFS 

iVi cups Graham flour 2 tsp. sugar 

1 cup white flour 1 tsp. salt 

3 eggs not beaten 3 cups milk 

Bake in hot iron muffin pans yi hour. 

Mrs. F. R. Savidge 

POTATO PANCAKES 

8 large raw potatoes 1 tsp. baking powder 

3 eggs 1 tsp. sugar 

Pinch of salt 

Grate the potatoes and mix the ingredients with enough 
flour to bake. Evelyn Merwin 

WAFFLES, No. 1 

1 pt. flour 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tsp. baking powder 3 eggs 

Vz tsp. salt iVa cups milk 

Mix in the order given, and bake at once. If the batter is too 
stiff, more milk may be used. Contributed 

WAFFLES, No. 2 

1 cup melted butter Yolks of 6 eggs (mix well) 

1 tbsp. sugar Milk 

V4 tsp. salt Flour 

Alternate qt. milk and 3 cups flour, fold in carefully 6 whites 
of eggs — dry. Mrs. G. A. Van Lennep 

13 



THE MODERN CLUB 



WAFFLES, No. 3 

3 eggs 1 qt. rich milk 

3 cups flour 1 tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. melted butter 2 heaping tsp. baking powder 

Beat eggs separately, mix salt in yolks, stir most of flour and 
part of the milk. Beat well until it bubbles, then add butter, 
then baking powder in the rest of the flour and the rest of the milk, 
and last the whites of the eggs. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

SWEET-MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup flour 1 scant cup milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. melted butter 
V4 tsp. salt 1 egg (if desired) 

Mix the dry materials and sift them. Beat the eggs and add 
the milk and melted butter; pour the liquid mixture slowly into 
the dry mixture, stir it to make a smooth batter, then beat it 
well. Cook it by spoonfuls on a hot greased griddle or frying pan, 
using just enough fat to keep cakes from sticking to pan. As 
soon as the cakes are full of bubbles, turn them quickly (with a 
broad knife or griddle-cake turner) and cook the other side. 
Never turn them twice. Miss M. A. Leas 

SOUR-MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup flour V4 tsp. salt 

y2 tsp. baking soda 1 cup thick sour milk 

1 egg 

Mix according to recipe for sweet-milk griddle cakes. 

Miss M. A. Leas 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 level cup buckwheat flour 1 level tbsp. sugar 

3 level tsp. baking pov*rder Vi cup milk 
V2 level tsp. salt (scant) 1 cup water 

Sift the dry ingredients together twice; add all the liquid at 
once; stir until thoroughly mixed; then bake at once on a hot, 
well-oiled griddle. Miss Violette T. Haines 

14 



BREADS 

PAN CAKES 

Crusts, breadcrumbs, etc. Soda 

Sour milk Salt 

2 eggs Flour 

Take the crusts, crumbs and pieces of bread left on the table 
and in the bread box. Soak in water till soft, press through a 
colander; cover with sour milk (or if sour milk is not handy, use 
sweet milk and baking powder, leaving out salt). Add beaten 
eggs and ^ teaspoon soda and salt to a quart. Stir in flour till 
rather thicker than buckwheat cake batter and bake slowly on a 
hot griddle. Make each cake a trifle smaller than a dinner plate 
and cover each cake with plenty of butter and sugar until you 
have six or eight layers and then slice it like pie when serving. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

WHEATLET OR WHEATENA (Drexel Institute) 

6 cups boiling water 1 tsp. salt 

1 cup meal 

Put the water and salt into a kettle ; pour in the meal, stirring 
to prevent burning. Cook 15 minutes. It is ready to serve, but 
is not injured by being kept yi hour over boiling water. Rolled 
wheat needs 2 hours' cooking over steam. Contributed 

FRIED MUSH 

To a cup or two of hominy or cream of wheat add bits of 
cooked sausage, diced ham or bacon (left-overs), heat together, 
pour into baking powder cans; when cold turn out and cut in 
thick slices, dip in flour and fry. Fresh com meal mush instead 
of cereals may be used. Miss Dorothy Martin 

CORN MEAL MUSH (Drexel Institute) 

1 cup corn meal 1/2 tsp. salt 

V2 tbsp. flour 1 cup cold water 

1 pt. boiling water 

Mix the dry ingredients, add the cold water. Stir this mixture 
gradually into the boiling water. Cook for 10 minutes, stirring 
constantly. Place it over boiling water and cook from 45 minutes 

15 



THE MODERN CLUB 



to lyi hours, or until the meal does not taste raw. Turn into a 
wet bread pan, and when cool cut into >^-inch slices. Dip the 
slices in flour and brown in a deep hot fat. A slice of fat salt 
pork may be used. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BAKED GRITS (Spoon Bread) 

1 cup grits 2 heaping tbsp. butter 

1 egg 2 tbsp. sweet milk 

Salt to taste 

Cover the grits with water and cook until well done (partly 
dry). Use Quaker Hominy Grits. Beat the egg and add grits 
and salt ; add melted butter and milk. Bake in buttered dish 20 
minutes and serve at once. To be eaten at once. 

"MoNA St. Clair, the best cook in Dixie" 

IRISH OATMEAL (Drexel Institute) 

1 cup meal 4 cups boiling water 

1 tsp. salt 

Cook 15 minutes, stirring constantly, and then 3 hours over 
boiling water or all night, quietly cooking. Contributed 

AVENA (Drexel Institute) 

1 cup meal 3 cups boiling water 

1 tsp. salt 

Cook 10 minutes, stirring constantly, and cook over boiling 
water at least 45 minutes longer. A better flavor is developed 
by an hour's cooking. Contributed 

TOAST 

Cut stale bread into slices }i inch thick. Put it on a toaster 
or fork. Move it gently over the heat until dry, then allow it to 
become a delicate brown by placing it nearer the heat. Trim off 
crusts. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CREAM OR MILK TOAST (Drexel Institute) 

2 cups milk or cream 1 tbsp. flour 
2 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

16 



_^ BREADS 

Pour this sauce over slices of dry or moist toast. Moist toast 
is prepared by quickly dipping dry toast into hot salted water. 
The sauce is prepared as the milk sauce for vegetables. 

Contributed 

CINNAMON TOAST 

Cut the bread in slices and butter well, cover each slice with 
brown sugar and sprinkle lightly with cinnamon and last with 
nuts, either almonds or pecans, chopped fine. Lay the slices on a 
flat pan, have the oven hot and the bread will toast in four to 
five minutes. Mrs. James F. Magee, Jr. 

CREAM TOMATO TOAST 

3 tbsp. flour Vz tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar IV2 cups stewed tomatoes 

3 tbsp. butter V^ cup milk, scalded (cream is 
V4 tsp. soda better) 

Rub flour and butter together, add tomatoes, sugar, salt and 
then the scalded cream or milk. Pour over buttered toast and 
serve at once. Mrs. G. U. Rehfuss 

TOASTED CRACKERS AND CHEESE 

Split crackers and brown in the oven. Prepare grated cheese, 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Cover each half -cracker with 
the mixture and return to the oven. When the cheese has melted 
they are ready to serve. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BACON MUFFINS 

3 cups flour V4 cup melted butter 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 cup cold water 

V2 cup chopped fried bacon 

Mrs. J. Clifford Jones 

CHEESE STRAWS 

1 cup flour 1 large tbsp. butter 

1 cup grated cheese A little salt 

Pinch of cayenne pepper 

Mix same as pie crust with cold water. Roll thinner than for 
pie crust, cut in narrow strips and bake. Mrs. H. S. Thorn 

17 



THE MODERN CLUB 



GERMAN TOAST 

1 egg 1 cup milk 

V4 tsp. salt 6 or 8 slices stale bread 

Beat the egg lightly, add salt and milk. Soak the bread in 
this until soft. Have a griddle hot and well buttered. Brown the 
bread on one side, place a small piece of butter on the top of each 
slice, and turn and brown it on the other side. This toast is eaten 
hot, with butter, and also with cinnamon and sugar, or a sauce. 

Miss M. A. Leas 

SANDWICH APPETIZER 

Vi lb. Roquefort cheese Little vinegar to taste 

1 cake cream cheese Little catsup 

Little mustard Little Worcestershire sauce 

Little salt Little cider 

Mix Roquefort with a little vinegar and mustard and salt, 
then add cream cheese, catsup, Worcestershire sauce and cider 
stirring all together. Spread on rounds of toast with a narrow 
slice of tomato across the sandwich. 

Mrs. Harold DeLancey Downs 

HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES 

1 roll snappy cheese V4 tsp. salt 

1 egg V4 tsp. mustard 

1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce Bacon 

Rounds of bread 

Cream cheese, add egg and seasoning. Spread on bread cut 
^2 inch thick. Place slice of bacon on each round, bake in quick 
oven till bacon is done. Mrs. F. R. Savidge 

CRACKER SANDWICH 

Mix together 1 small jar of McClaren's cheese and 2 tbsp. 
of mayonnaise. Put 1 green pepper through a vegetable grinder 
and add it to the cheese. Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

CRACKER SANDWICH 

Roquefort cheese with enough butter rubbed in to spread, 
a few drops of Worcestershire sauce and a little prepared mustard. 
Sprinkle paprika on top. Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

18 



BREADS 



CROUTONS 



Cut bread (stale or fresh) into J^-inch cubes, brown in hot 
oven, stirring frequently. If you wish, add butter sufficient for 
quantity of cubes. Contributed 

CRISP CRACKERS 

Split and butter thick crackers and brown in hot oven. 
Nice with soup. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CANAPES 

Cut bread into pieces 2 inches thick. Cut either round or 
3J^ inches long by 2J/2 inches wide. Remove part of the bread 
from center, spread lightly with softened butter and brown in the 
oven. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BUTTER BALLS 

Sixteen balls of yi, ounce each may be made from ]4, pound of 
butter. Put the pieces in iced water for a few minutes. Scald the 
paddles, then chill in iced water and roll each piece of butter 
between paddles until round. If butter sticks to paddles, rub them 
with salt, scald again and chill. Contributed 



19 



HORS-D'CEUVRES 

" We remember . . . the cucumbers, and the leeks, and the onions, and 
the garlick." — Numbers xi, 5. 



HORS-D'(EUVRES 



HORS-D'(EUVRES 

The habit of eating hors-d'oeuvres — the Httle delicacies, mostly- 
piquant and appetite encouraging — at the beginning of the meal 
comes to us from France. 

In France luncheon is always begun with these trifles. Their 
variety is endless, from the ordinary sardine or shrimp to all sorts 
of little salads, like celery and beetroot chopped fine and mixed 
with oil and vinegar, or the famous "salade russe," which is a 
mixture of cooked vegetables chopped fine and covered with a 
mayonnaise sauce. 

But hors-d'oeuvres must be fresh — that is the great secret. 

The French housewife uses bits from previous meals, which, 
of course, is quite proper, provided they are mixed and prepared 
just before the meal and not left to stand. 

In Italy they make a specialty of pickling mushrooms and 
artichokes for hors-d'oeuvres, and they do up anchovies and other 
small fish in exceedingly tart sauces. 

All over the Balkans you find ample varieties of hors-d'oeuvres, 
and in Russia the "zakouskis," as they are called, used to be very 
elaborate. In fact, the farther you go east the more piquant 
these dishes seem to become. 

JELLIED MACEDOINE IN TOMATOES (HORS-D'(EUVRE) 
(Boston Cook Book) 

Select rather small tomatoes, somewhat firm and with smooth 
exterior. Cut out a small piece around the stem end, peel with 
care and take out the seeds. Mix together two or three truffles, 
cut in tiny cubes, one-fourth a cup, each, of cooked peas, green 
and yellow string beans, cut fine, asparagus tips, bits of celery, 
carrot or whatever vegetable is at hand. To these add an equal 
measure of aspic jelly and mayonnaise dressing and stir over ice- 
water until beginning to set, then use to fill the tomatoes. Make 
smooth on the top and set aside on the ice for half an hour or longer. 
When ready to serve cut each tomato (with a knife dipped in hot 
water) in quarters. Serve on heart leaves of lettuce. Pass small 
sandwiches at the same time. 

Mrs. Harold DeL. Downs 
25 



THE MODERN CLUB 



CAVIAR 

The best known hors-d'oeuvre, perhaps, is served in many 
and bewildering ways, but the dainty lettuce and caviar sandwich 
(with a sprinkling of onion or a dash of lemon juice) leaves nothing 
to be desired. One will, of course, remember that the dish of 
olives, radishes and celery is a very necessary associate with 
whatever hors-d'oeuvre or hors-d'oeuvres may be served. 

Miss Violette T. Haines 

ICED CAVIAR 

To prepare the caviar, remove it from the can and put it on 
ice till well chilled, then put it in a small dish set in a larger one 
full of scraped ice, and put it on a tray with a plate of thin toast 
and one of finely minced Bermuda onions. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ASSORTED HORS-D'(EUVRES 

Delicious antipasto comes already prepared, in glass, which 
may be used for a course. A six or eight compartment glass hors- 
d'oeuvre dish may be used, each compartment lined with small 
lettuce leaves. Place sardines in one dish with quartered lemon. 
In another, fine stalks of celery stuffed with Roquefort cheese. 
In another, halved, cold hard-boiled eggs stuffed with caviar. 
Ripe olives may fill another, and artichokes and cepes in oil may 
make another variety, while there are all sorts of smoked and 
pickled fishes in oil from Italy and Scandinavia for sale at all pur- 
veyors', any of which may be used. Very small tomatoes, peeled, 
quartered, and marinated in French dressing with sliced cucum- 
bers, also form another, and combinations are of infinite variety. 
Serve with sandwiches of Graham and white bread and butter 
cut in fancy shapes. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ANTIPASTO, ITALIAN STYLE 

Arrange crisp white lettuce leaves on a platter and decorate 
with fillets of anchovies, slices of sweet red peppers, cut in fancy 
shapes, and very thinly sliced green peppers and small tomatoes, 
peeled and cut in quarters, all tossed together first in French dress- 

26 



HORS-D'(EUVRES 



ing. Take the contents of two jars of Italian antipasto and ar- 
range in the center and serve with Melba toast as a first course. 

Miss Dorothy Martin 

ANTIPASTO 

This Italian preparation happily named ("preceding the 
meal") is a glorious hors-d'oeuvre to awaken a jaded appetite. 
This should be served on lettuce hearts, and here the conventional 
French dressing is a very real addition. 

Mrs. G. U. Rehfuss 

POLLY'S CANAPES 

Make some small round canapes of wheat bread, toast, butter, 
spread with a layer of cream cheese, and cover this with a layer 
of olive butter. Decorate with red and green peppers cut in fancy 
shapes. Miss Martha A. McDowell 

RED CABBAGE AND CREAM CHEESE 

Shredded red cabbage served with balls of cream cheese not 
too liberally covered with mayonnaise gives to the taste the same 
pleasure with which it charms the vision. 

Mrs. G. U. Rehfuss 

STUFFED CELERY 

White, crisp, scraped stalks stuffed with Ancre or Roquefort 
cheese. Garnish with radishes cut to resemble rosebuds. 

Mrs. p. H. Way 

ANCHOVIES IN OIL 

The indescribable flavor of anchovies blended with olive oil, 
served on hearts of lettuce, makes an ideal hors-d'oeuvre. (Some 
epicures add a bit of French dressing.) 

Mrs. G. U. Rehfuss 

MACKEREL IN WINE SAUCE 

Connoisseurs differ upon the method of serving. Some insist 
upon its service with French dressing on lettuce, others claim the 

27 



THE MODERN CLUB 



dressing is impossible with the delicate flavor of the wine sauce, 
and still others insist that it be served on toast points with oil 
and paprika. However it is served it will be found most appetizing. 

Miss Dorothy Martin 

DIABOLO 

is another assortment of carefully selected items for the delecta- 
tion of one's palate. Usually served in a manner similar to 
antipasto, on lettuce hearts with French dressing. 

Contributed 

PATE DE FOIE GRAS 

A few of the smallest leaves of a lettuce heart, a small mound 
of foie gras and a bit of mayonnaise. 

Mrs, Norman S. Essig 



28 



SOUP 

Pour out the broth. — Judges vi, 20. 



SOUP 

CLEAR SOUP (Drexel Institute) 

4 lbs. meat and bone 6 cloves 

2 qts, cold water 10 peppercorns 

1 large onion Bunch of herbs 

y^ small carrot 1 tbsp. salt 

Va turnip Whites of eggs 

Soy or caramel 

Cut the meat into small pieces, soak in cold water. Cook 
6 hours, allowing it to bubble gently; then add the vegetables, 
finely chopped, the seasoning and the soy. Cook 1 hour longer. 
Strain and cool. When ready to use it, remove the cake of fat. 
To 1 quart stock add white of 1 egg, % lb. meat chopped fine; 
mix these ingredients. Heat slowly, stirring all the time until 
hot. Keep hot for 18 minutes, not stirring, then strain. Several 
pieces of lemon rind may be added to the cold stock if desired. If 
the soup has not enough taste of meat, add some of Armour's 
extract. 

Contributed 



BEEF BROTH (Drexel Institute) 
1 lb. lean beef 1 pt. cold water 

Scrape or cut the beef very fine and put into the cold water. 
Allow it to soak for 1 hour. Cook over hot water, stirring to pre- 
vent the meat in the lower part of the kettle from hardening too 
rapidly. When the temperature is 154° F., remove the broth and 
strain through a coarse sieve. Salt may be added before serving. 
If the kettle is surrounded by water, it cooks more evenly. A wire 
rest in the bottom of the pan may be used to hold the kettle. 

Contributed 

BEEF JUICE 

Take a slice of the round of beef and heat it a few seconds 
over a clear fire to start the juices. Cut the meat into small 
pieces and squeeze all the juice out, using a lemon squeezer or 
meat press. This is strong beef juice and is given cold to invalids. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
33 



THE MODERN CLUB 



BEEF STOCK OR BOUILLON 

1 lb. beef, or 2 lbs. meat and bone 

2 qts. or 1 qt. or 1 pt. cold water 

Put the trimmings and bones of fresh meat, also bones and 
pieces from roasts and broils, cut into small pieces, into a soup pot. 
Soak 1 hour in cold water. Cook at a low temperature for several 
hours. Vegetables may be added during the last hour, also 
seasonings. Strain through a cloth placed in a sieve. The cake 
of fat on the top must be removed before it is used. This is 
economical, as the fat is a good foundation for gravies and soups. 
No smoked or charred pieces of meat or bone should be used. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BOUILLON 

1 shin of veal (have bones cracked) 2 lbs. round steak (cut in little 

dice) 

Put all in a pot of cold water (about 5 qts. for this quantity 
of meat) and set it on the back of range and slowly bring to a boil. 
Let it boil slowly for 4 or 5 hours. Then strain through a fine 
sieve, and set away to cool, so that the fat can be removed easily. 
After removing fat, add 1 red onion, 1 egg, 2 or 3 stalks of celery; 
put all together over a very hot fire and let it come to a boil, 
removing the sciun as it rises. Set it back on the range and let it 
cool slowly until the flavor of the vegetables is all through the 
bouillon, continuing to remove the scum. One hour is long 
enough for this. Then strain it through a fine sieve and a piece 
of cheesecloth ; it is then ready for use either hot or cold. 

Miss Irene C. Eisenbrey 

CHICKEN BROTH IN CUPS 

3-lb. chicken 1 bay leaf 

2 slices carrot 2 stalks celery 

y^ tbsp. peppercorns Salt and pepper to taste 

1 sliced onion 1 tbsp. beef extract 

Boil the fowl in 2 qts. of cold water with carrot, pepper- 
corns, onion, bay leaf, celery, salt and pepper, and beef extract. 
Bring quickly to boiling point, then let simmer until the meat is 

34 



SOUP 

tender. Remove the meat and strain stock. Chill, remove the 
fat, reheat and see that it is properly seasoned. Serve in cups. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



JELLIED CHICKEN BROTH 

When the broth is taken from the fire, clear with the shell 
and white of 1 egg to each quart of stock, placing on the fire 
and letting come to a boil for 2 minutes, stirring all the time, 
then setting back for 20 minutes to simmer. Remove scum 
and strain through double thicknesses of cheesecloth placed over 
a fine strainer. Cool, then put in the ice-box to chill, and it should 
jelly without the addition of gelatine, if the broth is very strong. 
Serve in cups. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



CLAM BROTH IN CUPS 

Wash and scrub with a stiff brush }4. peck of clams, 
changing the water several times. Put in a kettle with 3 cups 
of cold water and cover very tightly, and steam until the shells 
are well opened. Strain through cheesecloth and serve in cups, 
very hot, with a spoonful of salted whipped cream on each cup. 

The Epicure, Boston 



MUTTON BROTH 

2 lbs. neck of mutton (Weak broth, 2 qts. cold water) 

1 qt. cold water 1 slice onion may be used 

Cleanse the meat with a damp cloth. Remove the skin and 
fat. Cut the meat into small pieces. Break or separate the bones. 
Place in a stew-pan and add the cold water. Let them stand 1 
hour if possible. If the onion is used, it may be added at the end 
of the hour. Heat gradually to 170° F., and keep it at that tem- 
perature 2 hours. Strain through a coarse sieve, that the 
reddish-brown particles of albuminous matter may not be lost. 
To make a delicate broth the mutton must be fresh. 

Contributed 
135 



THE MODERN CLUB 



MOCK TURTLE SOUP 

1 calf's head 2 onions 

4 qts. cold water 1 carrot 

1 tbsp. salt 1 turnip 

6 cloves Celery root 

6 peppercorns 4 tbsp. butter 

6 allspice V2 cup flour 

Vz-inch stick cinnamon 1 pt. brown stock 

1 tbsp. sweet herbs V^ lemon 

Wash, scrape and clean the head, and soak it an hour in cold 
water. Remove the brains and tongue. Lay them in cold water 
in a separate dish. Cut the head in several pieces and place in a 
kettle with the skin side up to prevent sticking. Add 4 qts. of 
cold water. Heat slowly; when it boils, skim carefully. Cook 
slowly for 2 hours, or until the meat comes easily from the bone. 
Add the salt at the end of 1 hour. Remove the meat. When 
cold, cut in >^-inch dice. Put the bones on to boil again. Add 
the spices, herbs and vegetables and boil slowly until reduced to 
2 qts. Strain and set away to cool. Half an hour before serving, 
remove the fat and put the stock on to boil. Add more seasoning, 
if desired. Make a brown sauce with the butter, flour and brown 
stock. Add this to the head stock. Add 1 cup of meat cut in dice. 
Use the remainder of the meat for force-meat balls. Slice the lemon 
and put it in the tureen with the force-meat; add the hot soup. 
The tongue may be cooked and used, if desired. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

RICH BROWN SOUP 

6 lbs. lean beef V2 doz. onions 

4 doz. cloves 5 qts. water 

1 tsp. salt, pepper, mace and grated 6 wineglasses claret or port 
nutmeg 

Cut beef from the bone, stick it over with the cloves, season 
with the salt, pepper, mace and nutmeg. Slice the onions, fry 
them in butter, chop and spread them over the meat. Put in pot, 
cover with the water and stew slowly 5 or 6 hours. When meat 
is dissolved into shreds, strain and return liquid to pot. Add 
claret or port. Simmer again slowly about yi hour. When soup 
is reduced to 3 qts. it is done. 

Mrs. a. Reed McIntire 
36 



SOUP 

TOMATO SOUP. No. 1 

1 can tomatoes 2 tbsp. flour 

1 onion 2 tbsp. butter 

1 pt. milk 1 tsp. sugar 

Salt to taste 

Add onion to tomatoes. Cook for 15 minutes. Strain. 
Put milk into a double boiler, add flour and butter, and dissolve. 
Just before serving mix it with the tomato, adding salt and sugar. 

Miss Elisabeth Warren Green 

TOMATO SOUP, No. 2 

1 cup strained tomatoes 1 tbsp. instantaneous tapioca 

1 pt. chicken stock 1 cup scalded milk 

Salt and pepper 

Add tapioca to chicken stock while cold, then cook stock and 
tomatoes for yi hour. Just before serving add scalded milk. Add 
seasoning last. Mrs. Jonathan Jenks 

TOMATO SOUP, No. 3 

1 can tomatoes 1 tsp. salt 

Va cup water 2 tbsp. butter 

4 cloves 3 tbsp. flour 

1 slice onion 

Cook tomatoes, water, cloves and onion 20 minutes. Strain, 
bind with butter and flour rubbed together and strain into tureen 
or plates. Mrs. Jonathan Jenks 

MOCK TOMATO BISQUE 

2 cups milk 1 tsp. sugar 

2 or 3 small slices onion 1/2 tsp. baking soda 

2 buds of clove 1 tbsp. butter 

4 tsp. flour 1 tsp. salt 

1 cup canned tomatoes Pepper to taste 

Put milk, onion and cloves in boiler and scald. While scald- 
ing, mix flour smooth with cold water. Put the flour in the scalded 
milk and place on stove to cook for ten minutes, stirring constantly. 
Keep lid off boiler. While milk is cooking, put tomatoes on to 

37 



THE MODERN CLUB 



heat. When heated, add sugar and soda, remove from stove before 
adding soda ; add this gradually to the thickened milk, then add 
butter in small bits and salt and pepper. Put on stove for few 
minutes. (This quantity of soup will serve four persons.) 

Mrs. Godfrey N. Degerberg 



CLEAR TOMATO SOUP 

1 qt. can tomatoes 6 peppercorns 

3 cups water 1 bay leaf 

I onion 2 tsp. sugar 

6 cloves 1 tsp. salt 

Boil 20 minutes. Strain and add white of egg and shell 
broken fine, and return to stove, stirring constantly until boiling 
point. Then cook hard 10 minutes, remove to back of stove to 
simmer for 20 minutes. Strain through double cheesecloth. 

Mrs. Harold DeLancey Downs 



BLACK BEAN SOUP 

3 cups black beans 1 slice lemon 

1 slice hard-boiled egg 

Soak the beans over night, and then cook all the following 
day. Mash through a colander, and then through a f ne strainer. 
Add lemon and hard-boiled egg. 

Miss Elisabeth Warren Green 



RICE BISQUE SOUP 

V2 cup rice V^ cup finely chopped celery 

1 qt. boiling water 1 bay leaf 

1 qt. milk 1 small onion 

3 tbsp. butter 

Wash rice and put it into the boiling water, boil rapidly for 
10 minutes, then drain and put it into a double boiler with milk, 
celery and bay leaf. Cover and cook slowly 30 minutes. 

While this is cooking cut a small onion into thin slices, put 
it with 2 tbsp. of butter into a small frying pan, cook slowly until 
onion is tender (not brown) ; add this to the mixture in the double 

38 



SOUP 

boiler and press the whole through a coarse sieve, return to boiler, 
add 1 tbsp. of butter and serve hot. 

Mrs. H. M. Langdon 

POTATO SOUP 

2 cups hot riced or mashed potatoes 1 y^ tsp. salt 

1 qt. milk Celery salt 

2 slices onion Pepper 

3 tbsp. butter Cayenne 

2 tbsp. flour 1 tsp. chopped parsley 

Scald the milk with the onion ; remove the onion ; add the 
milk slowly to the potatoes. Melt the butter; add to it the dry- 
ingredients; stir the mixture until it is well blended. Add this 
to the liquid mixture, stirring it constantly, and boil the soup for 
1 minute. Strain it if necessary, add the parsley, and serve it. 
"W ater saved from cooking celery is a good addition to potato soup. 

This recipe may be followed for onion, com, carrot, pea, 
bean or celery soup. Mrs. Harold DeL. Downs 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP, No. 1 

3 potatoes Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 cups milk or white stock 1/2 cup cream 

Salt and pepper 

Cook the potatoes in boiling salted water until soft. Drain 
and mash them and add the stock or milk. Press the mixture 
through a sieve, add the beaten yolks, the cream and seasoning. 
Cook in a double boiler until the egg thickens, then serve imme- 
diately, as the soup curdles if allowed to stand. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP, No. 2 

1 cup left-over mashed potatoes 1 slice onion 

3 cups milk Salt and pepper 
1 tbsp. butter 1 tbsp. flour 

Heat milk and onion together, but do not boil, pour over cold 
mashed potatoes and press through a strainer, melt butter, stir 
in flour but do not brown, and add milk mixture slowly, stirring 
constantly until thickened. Add seasoning and a little grated 
cheese on each plate of soup. Miss Marie A. Jones 

39 



THE MODERN CLUB 



POTATO SOUP 

3 potatoes IV2 tsp. salt 

1 pt. milk, or 1 cup milk and 1 cup Yg tsp. white pepper 

water V2 tbsp. flour 

1 tsp. chopped onion Yz tbsp. butter 

Wash, pare and cook the potatoes (without salt) until very- 
soft. Cook the milk and onion in a double boiler. When the 
potatoes are cooked and drained, mash them with a wire potato- 
masher, add the hot milk, and rub through a strainer. Return 
to the double boiler; add salt and pepper; melt the butter in a 
saucepan; add the flour and enough of the mixture of the milk 
and potato to pour it into the boiler. Cook 5 minutes. Add more 
seasoning, if needed, and 1 tsp. finely chopped parsley; serve very 
hot with croutons. Miss M. A. Leas 

SPINACH OR ASPARAGUS SOUP 

1 cup cream or rich milk 2 cups water (asparagus or spinach 

1 tbsp. flour has been boiled in) 

1 tbsp. butter Salt and pepper 

Mix butter and flour together. Add slowly the asparagus or 
spinach water and boil. Add cream and season. 

Miss Marie A. Jones 

CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP 

Vi lb. mushrooms Vi cup flour 

4 cups soup stock 1 cup cream 
1 slice onion Salt 

V4 cup butter Pepper 

Chop mushrooms f nely (which have been peeled and cleaned), 
add to soup stock with onion. Reheat, bind with butter and flour 
cooked together, then add cream and salt and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. J. Howard Pew 

MUSHROOM SOUP 

1 pt. cream Pepper and salt 

1 pt. milk 1 doz. fresh mushrooms (1 pt. if 

2 tbsp. flour canned) 



2 tbsp. butter 



40 



SOUP 

Add the milk to the cream, let come to a boil, thicken with 
flour and butter which have been stirred until smooth, season with 
pepper and salt, add mushrooms which have been chopped not 
too fine. This will serve eight persons. 

Mrs. H. M. Langdon 

MUSHROOM SOUP 

Peelings, stems, etc., of 1 lb. mush- 2 tbsp. butter 

rooms 2 tbsp. fiour 

1 pt. water 1 cup chicken stock 

Boil mushroom peelings, stems, etc., in the water; add a few 
mushrooms cut up. Season to taste. Cook butter and flour 
together a few minutes, stirring all the time. Add to the cooked 
butter and flour the strained mushroom liquor, then add 1 cup of 
chicken stock and cook for a few minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream on top. One cup of whipped cream may be used in place 
of chicken stock. Mrs. Jonathan Jenks 

CORN BISQUE 

1 pt. water Pepper, salt, parsley 

1 can corn 1 tbsp. butter 

1 pt. milk 1 tbsp. flour 

Pour water on com, boil 20 minutes slowly; strain, put liquor 
back on stove, add milk; season with pepper, salt and a little 
parsley; rub butter and flour together with a little hot milk, 
stir into the soup. Mrs. L. H. Richards 

CREAM OF CHICKEN SOUP 

Break up the chicken left from previous day, add bits of skin 
and barley, cover with cold water, cook slowly on back of stove 
for an hour or more, then drain off liquor, add an equal amount 
of milk and thicken with flour and butter rubbed together. A 
little cooked rice improves the soup. 

Mrs. Godfrey N. Degerberg 

BISQUE OF OYSTERS 

1 qt. oysters 31/2 tbsp. flour 

1 qt. liquid (liquor or water) Salt, paprika and celery salt to taste 

3 tbsp. butter (browned) 1 cup cream 

41 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Clean, pick over, chop and parboil oysters, strain and add to 
the liquor enough water to make 1 qt. of liquid. Brown the 
butter, add flour and gradually pour in the oyster liquor, stirring 
constantly. Let simmer for one-half hour. Season with salt, 
paprika and celery salt, and just before serving add the cream. 

Mrs. Godfrey N. Degerberg 

ONION SOUP 

2 large onions 1 qt. scalded milk 

2 tbsp. butter Beaten yolks of 2 eggs, or 

1 tbsp. flour 1 cup chicken stock 

Salt to taste 

Cook onions and butter in double boiler for 2 hours, then add 
flour and cook for another hour, then add the scalded milk. Just 
before serving add the beaten egg yolks. Salt is put in last to 
avoid curdling. Mrs. Jonathan Jenks 

GREEN PEA SOUP (Drexel Institute) 

1 qt. or 1 can green peas V2 tsp. salt 

1 qt. water ^ tsp. pepper 

1 tbsp. butter V2 tsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. flour 1 pt. milk or cream 

Cook the peas in 1 pt. of the boiling water until soft. Mash 
them in the water in which they were boiled and rub through a 
strainer, gradually adding the remainder of the water. Put them 
where they will keep hot. Melt the butter, add the seasoning, 
sugar and flour. Add gradually the mixture of water and peas, 
then milk or cream to make the soup of the right consistency. 
If the pods are fresh, more water may be used, and some of them 
may be cooked with the peas. Contributed 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP 

1 qt. white stock or milk 1 tbsp. flour 

IS stalks asparagus V2 cup cream 

1 tbsp. butter Salt and pepper 

Cook the asparagus in the stock or milk, saving the heads and 
cooking them separately to serve in the soup. When soft press 

42 



SOUP 

the asparagus and milk through a sieve. Heat the butter and add 
the flour and seasoning, then gradually add the milk and asparagus 
mixture. Add the cream and beat with an egg-beater. Place the 
cooked tips of asparagus in a tureen and pour the soup over them. 

Contributed 

CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP 

1 cup spinach 2 cups white broth 

1 pt. hot white sauce Salt and pepper 

Press cooked and chopped spinach through a sieve; add hot 
white sauce, white broth and salt and pepper as needed; strain 
and serve. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CLAM SOUP 

1 tbsp. butter Celery salt 

2 tbsp. flour Cayenne 

1 qt. milk 1 cup minced clams 

Rub butter and flour to a cream, melt in a saucepan over fire 
and add milk slowly, stirring constantly; when it thickens add 
celery salt, cayenne and minced clams with their juice; let it 
boil up once and serve very hot. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

NOODLES 

2 eggs Flour 

Beat the eggs until light, then add as much flour as they will 
absorb. Knead the dough until smooth, then divide it into two 
parts and roll each portion very thin. When partially dry cut 
into 3-in. strips. Place several of these pieces together and cut 
very fine, shake the pieces apart and when dry place in a closely 
covered jar. Noodles will keep for several weeks. They may be 
used in the same way as macaroni. Contributed 

NOODLE PUFFS 

In making noodles, if the paste is rolled thin and then doubled, 
small circles may be cut out, which, when dropped into hot fat, 
will make little brown balloons which are exceedingly good in 
clear soup. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

43 



THE MODERN CLUB 



RICE BALLS 

1 cup cold boiled rice 1 tbsp. flour 

1 egg Vi tsp. salt 

Dash of cayenne 

Mix rice with egg, slightly beaten, flour, salt and cayenne. 
Form into very small balls and drop into hot soup. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CANDY CARAMEL 

Melt 1 cup of granulated or brown sugar with 1 tbsp. water. 
Stir steadily over the fire until it becomes a deep brown in color. 
Add 1 cup boiling water. Cook a few minutes longer. Bottle and 
keep tightly corked. It may be used to color gravies, soups, sauces 
and custards. The boiling water must be added gradually. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



44 



FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTER, TERRAPIN AND CRABS 

Jesus . . . taketh bread, and giveth theyn, and fish likewise. — ^John xxi, 13. 



FISH 



BROILED FISH 



To broil small fish, also all thin fish, split them down the 
back, remove head and tail; the backbone is also sometimes 
removed. 

Large fish are cut in slices for steaks. Dry fish need butter 
rubbed over them before broiling. Oily fish need only salt and 
pepper. Grease the broiler with fat. Cook the flesh side first. 
The time for broiling depends upon the thickness of the fish. If 
cooked, the flesh separates easily from the bone. 

Slices of any white fish may be placed in melted butter for 
yi hour before cooking; then seasoned, rolled in flour, and broiled 
about 12 minutes. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FISH COOKED IN FAT 

Large fish may be skinned, boned and cut in slices. Small 
fish may be cooked whole. Season them with salt and pepper and 
cover with Indian meal, flour or crumbs and ^g^. One-half Indian 
meal and ^ flour may be used. Cook in deep hot fat or in a 
small amount of hot salt pork fat. Drain on paper. A wire 
basket is used to cook in deep fat. Contributed 

BAKED FISH 

Rub the fish with salt, fill it with stuffing and sew the edges 
together. Cut gashes on each side across the fish and put strips 
of salt pork into them. Grease the fish sheet and place the fish 
on it; put the sheet into a baking pan with pieces of pork fat. 
Baste it often. It is cooked when the fish separates from the bone. 
Serve with sauce. Contributed 

STUFFING FOR FISH 

1 cup cracker or bread-crumbs 1 tsp. onion juice 

Vi tsp. salt 1 tsp. chopped parsley 

Vg tsp. white pepper 1 tsp. capers or pickles 

Cayenne Vi cup melted butter 

Moisten with cold water, butter or an egg if a moist stuffing 
is desired. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

49 



THE MODERN CLUB 



FISH COOKED IN WATER 

Boiling salted water must be used; 1 tbsp. vinegar may be 
added to the water. Place the fish in a wire basket or sew it in a 
muslin bag. Put it into the boiling water, which will harden the 
albimien, then push the kettle to the back of the range and cook 
it at a lower temperature. It is cooked when it flakes or separates 
from the bone. Contributed 



SCALLOPED FISH 

V2 cup crumbs for bottom of dish lYz cups sauce 
2 cups fish 1 cup crumbs 

1 tbsp. butter for the top 

Take any white fish, chop or shred it, season with salt, and 
cover with milk sauce. Sprinkle crumbs (stale bread) over a shal- 
low baking-dish; add the fish and sauce, and cover the top with 
crumbs which have been added to the melted butter. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



HALIBUT 

One slice of halibut 2 inches thick, weighing about 2 lbs. 
Rub with garlic and cover the slice with }4 cup of butter broken 
in small pieces. Cook 15 minutes, basting twice. Then cover top 
with 1 lb. fresh mushrooms broken in half. Add 1 cup cream; 
cook 25 minutes or longer, basting 3 times. Thicken sauce in pan 
and pour over fish. Contributed 

BROILED HALIBUT, MAiTRE D'HOTEL 

Broil as many fillets of halibut as there are people, first rub- 
bing them over with olive oil and dusting with salt and pepper, 
and arrange on a hot platter garnished with cress. Make maitre 
d'hdtel sauce by creaming 4 tbsp. of butter and mixing thor- 
oughly with 2 tbsp. of lemon juice and 1 tbsp. of minced 
parsley, salt and pepper to taste and a dash of cayenne. Spread 
this over the fillets just before sending them to the table. 

The Epicure, Boston 
50 



FISH 



DEVILED HALIBUT 



Mince a pound of cold boiled or baked halibut, or the frag- 
ments of halibut steak, and make for it the following dressing: 

Yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs 1 tsp, salt 

1 tbsp. salad oil 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

2 tsp. white sugar A little anchovy paste 

1 tsp. made mustard 1 small teacup of vinegar in which 

Pinch of cayenne celery seed have been steeped 

Rub the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs smooth with the back 
of a silver spoon, or in a Wedgewood mortar, and when there 
remain no lumps work into a soft paste with the salad oil. Next 
beat in the white sugar, mustard, cayenne, salt, Worcestershire 
sauce, a little anchovy paste if you wish, and finally, a little at a 
time to prevent lumping, the vinegar. (It is easy to keep a bottle 
of this on hand for salads and sauces.) Stir all thoroughly into 
the minced fish, garnish with a chain of the whites of the eggs cut 
into rings, with a small roimd slice of pickled beet laid within each 
link, and you have a piquant and pretty salad for the supper- 
table. Miss Alice L, Van Lennep 

PARSLEY BUTTER 

3 tbsp. butter 1 tbsp. chopped parsley 

1 tbsp. lemon juice y^ tsp. salt 

Vs tsp. pepper 

Beat these ingredients into the butter and it is ready for use. 
To be used on fried or broiled fish and potato balls. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FRIED HALIBUT WITH CREOLE SAUCE 

From 3^-pound pieces divide into fillets. Wipe with damp 
cloth. Prepare and cook as cod fillets. 

CREOLE SAUCE 

Vz cup stewed tomatoes 2 green peppers 

2 onions, finely chopped V^ cup water 

Contributed 

BAKED SHAD 

Clean, wash and wipe the fish. Make a stuffing of grated 
bread crumbs, butter, salt, pepper and sweet herbs. After stuffing 

51 



THE MODERN CLUB 



lay it in the baking-pan, with a cupful of water to keep it from 
burning, and bake an hour, basting with butter and water, until 
it is tender throughout and well browned. Take it up, put in a 
hot dish and cover tightly, while you boil up the gravy with a tbsp. 
of catsup, a tbsp. of flour which has been wet with cold water and 
the juice of a lemon. Garnish with sliced lemon and water-cresses. 
You may pour the gravy around the fish, or serve in a sauce-boat. 

Miss Violette T. Haines 

SOUTHERN FRIED SHAD 

Clean, wash and wipe a fine roe-shad; split and cut each side 
into four pieces. Sprinkle with salt and p^epper, and dredge with 
flour. Have ready a frying-pan of boiling hot lard or drippings; 
put in the fish and fry brown, turning at the end of 5 minutes 
to cook the other side. Fry the roe in the same way; lay the fish 
in the middle of the dish and the roe outside of it; garnish with 
water-cresses and sprigs of pickled cauliflower, and eat with 
catsup or plain dressing of butter, melted, pepper and salt, or pars- 
ley butter, whichever desired. Mrs. Joseph T. Richards 

BOILED SHAD (Fresh) 

Clean, wash and wipe the fish. A roe-shad is best for this 
purpose. Cleanse the roes thoroughly, and having sprinkled 
both with salt, wrap in separate cloths and put into a fish-kettle, 
side by side. Cover with salted water and boil >^ to ^ hour, 
in proportion to the size. Experience is the best rule as to the 
time. When you have once cooked fish to a turn, note the weight 
and time, and you will be at no loss thereafter. A good rule is to 
make a penciled memorandum in the margin of the recipe-book 
opposite certain recipes. 

Serve the shad upon a hot dish, with a boat of drawn butter 
mingled with chopped eggs and parsley, or egg sauce. Lay the 
roes about the body of the fish. Garnish with capers and slices of 
hard-boiled eggs. Contributed 

BROILED SALT SHAD 

Soak over night in lukewarm water. Take out in the morning 
and transfer to ice-cold water for half an hour. Wipe very dry, 
and broil as you do fresh shad. Contributed 

52 



FISH 



BOILED SALT SHAD 



Soak the fish 6 or 7 hours in warm water, changing it 
several times ; wipe off all the salt and immerse in ice-cold water. 
When it has lain in this an hour, put into a fish-kettle with enough 
fresh water to cover it and boil from 15 to 20 minutes, 
in proportion to the size. Serve in a hot dish, with a large lump 
of butter spread over the fish. Contributed 



BROILED FRESH SHAD 

Wash, wipe and split the fish. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and lay it upon a buttered gridiron, inside downward. When the 
lower side is browned, turn the fish. One of medium size will be 
done in about 20 minutes. Serve on a hot dish, and lay a good 
piece of butter upon the fish. 

Mrs. Joseph T. Richards 



BROILED MACKEREL (Fresh) 

Clean the mackerel, wash and wipe dry. Split it open, so 
that when laid flat the backbone will be in the middle. Sprinkle 
lightly with salt and lay on a buttered gridiron over a clear fire, 
with the inside downward, until it begins to brown; then turn the 
other. When quite done lay on a hot dish and butter it plentifully. 
Turn another hot dish over the lower one and let it stand two or 
three minutes before sending to table. Contributed 



FRIED PERCH AND OTHER PAN FISH 

Clean, wash and dry the fish. Lay them in a large flat dish, 
salt and dredge with flour. Have ready a frying-pan of hot 
dripping, lard or butter; put in as many fish as the pan will hold 
without crowding, and fry to a light brown. Serve hot in a chafing- 
dish. 

The many varieties of pan fish — porgies, flounders, river 
bass, weak-fish, white-fish, etc., may be cooked in like manner. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
53 



THE MODERN CLUB 



RHODE ISLAND CODFISH CAKES 

Boneless codfish 1 tbsp. butter 

Boiled potatoes 1 egg 

Mash twice as much potato as you have codfish (1 cup of 
boneless fish to 2 cups potatoes) ; will require 1 tbsp. butter added 
to hot potatoes. Beat the egg well before adding and then beat 
all thoroughly before dropping into deep hot fat. If old-fashioned 
codfish is used, soak over night, pull to pieces and boil with pota- 
toes in morning and proceed as above. 

Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 



CODFISH CAKES, No. 1 

1 cup codfish (cooked) 1 egg 

2 potatoes 1/2 cup cream 

1 tbsp. butter Little red pepper 

Cut potatoes fine, boil, drain and mash, then add butter. 
Beat the egg till light; add to fish and potato. To this add >^ to 
1 cup cream according to consistency. Drop from spoon into 
boiling lard. Mrs. Aubrey J. Dando 



CODFISH CAKES, No. 2 

IV2 cups picked fish 3 cups mashed potatoes 

Yolks of 3 eggs 

Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add minced parsley 
(if you like it). Season highly. Drop by spoonfuls into boiling 
lard, very hot. Mrs. James A. Campbell 



SAUCE FOR FISH 

1 pt. boiling water Vi tsp. salt 

Vs or V^ cup butter 1 tbsp. lemon juice or vinegar 

2 tbsp. flour Cayenne 

Prepare in the same way as white sauce. Hard-boiled eggs 
may be chopped or sliced and added to the sauce. 

Mrs. James A. Campbell 
54 



FISH 

LEFT-OVER FISH 

Prepare white sauce as follows : 

2 tbsp. butter Vi tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. flour 14 tsp. white pepper 

2 cups milk 

Add about a cup of cold left-over fish such as halibut, trout, 
whitefish, pickerel, etc. Put in buttered baking-dish, sprinkle 
top with bread crumbs and brown in oven. 

Miss Marie A. Jones 



SALMON LOAF 

V2 cup cream V2 cup milk 

1 cup salmon Salt, pepper 

1 cup soft bread crumbs (picked up) Whites of 5 eggs, beaten stiff 

Boil bread crumbs and milk; into this put salmon and then 
remove from stove. Add the beaten whites of eggs, butter cups 
and sprinkle with hard bread crumbs, fill with paste and bake ■ 
20 minutes in pan of hot water. 

Miss Marie A. Jones 

SAUCE FOR SALMON 

1 cup milk heated to boiling Oil from the can of salmon 

1 tbsp. cornstarch 3 or 4 tbsp. catsup 

1 tbsp. butter Salt and pepper 

COLD FISH FOR LUNCHEON 

Cold cooked halibut steak is very nice served for luncheon with 
a garnish of tartar sauce served in lemon shells. Save the ends of 
lemons and dip the edges in chopped parsley and fill with tartar 
sauce. Contributed 



TARTAR SAUCE 

Add to oil mayonnaise dressing, chopped capers, olives, pickles 
and parsley. Miss Marie A. Jones 

55 



THE MODERN CLUB 



SOLE FLORENTINE 

While sole will probably not be available, flounder is the best 
substitute this country affords. Cook a flounder of medium size 
in fish stock to which a piece of butter has been added. Have 
ready some shredded spinach which has been cooked tender and 
warmed in melted butter; place this in the bottom of a baking- 
dish and arrange the fish upon it. Cover it with Mornay sauce, 
sprinkle over a little grated cheese, remembering that equal parts 
of Gruyere and Parmesan mixed give best results, and set it in a 
hot oven to glaze and brown the cheese. Mornay sauce is made 
from 1 pt. of bechamel sauce combined with % pt. of fish stock 
or court bouillon; cook briskly to reduce one-quarter and add 
2 oz. of grated Gruyere and 2 oz. of grated Parmesan, and after 
adding 2 oz. of butter stir until the cheese is melted. 

The Epicure, Boston 

BROILED SPANISH MACKEREL, FLORIDA 

Select a good-sized Spanish mackerel. Clean, split, rub over 
with melted butter, dust with salt and pepper and broil under a 
clear flame or over the coals until nicely done, and brown. Cut a 
basket from a round-shaped lemon for each person to be served, 
remove the pulp and fill with cucumber salad and have a boat of 
maitre d'hdtel butter to pass with the fish. The cucumber salad 
should be made from cuctimbers with the large seeds removed, 
cut in very tiny cubes, and a slice of red pepper, also minced very 
fine, and tossed together in some mayonnaise colored green, also 
known as "sauce verte." Serve the lemon baskets around the 
fish on the platter, putting on at the last moment, that the hot dish 
may not warm the lemon baskets. The Epicure, Boston 

OYSTER COCKTAIL 

6 oysters V2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

1 tbsp. tomato catsup 1 tsp. finely chopped celery 

1/2 tbsp. lemon juice 2 drops tabasco 

Salt to taste 

Mix, chill and serve in glasses or cases made of green peppers 
on crushed ice. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

56 



OYSTERS 



FRIED OYSTERS 



Select large oysters, put them into a colander and pour cold 
water over them to wash them, or cleanse by wiping with a cloth. 
Remove carefully small pieces of shell. Season with salt and 
pepper. Roll in fine bread crumbs (which have been dried and 
sifted), then in beaten egg, and again in crumbs. The beaten egg 
may have water or the juice of the oysters added to it, 1 tbsp. 
water to each egg. When the fat is at the right temperature, put 
several oysters in and cook until browned. Drain on paper. 
Garnish with parsley and pieces of lemon. 

Mrs. Charles G. Hodge 

OYSTER STEW 

1 cup milk Salt and pepper 

1 pt., or 30 oysters V2 tbsp. butter 

Scald the milk. Cook and strain the oyster juice, then add the 
oysters and cook until the edges curl. Add the seasoning, butter 
and hot milk. Serve at once. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS 

1 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

Vs tsp. white pepper Cayenne 

1 pt., or 30 oysters 

Place all the ingredients except the oysters in a chafing-dish 
or covered saucepan. When hot add the oysters, cover and shake 
the pan occasionally. When the oysters are plimip drain them 
and place them where they will be kept hot. Add enough cream 
to the liquid in the pan to make 1 cup. 

Miss Violette T. Haines 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

The oysters are prepared by wiping them, or pouring cold 
water over them in a colander. The juice may be strained through 
a cloth. The oysters are in layers, with seasoned crumbs between 

57 



THE MODERN CLUB 



each layer. The oysters, if used in shells, are cut with a silver 
knife into small pieces. 

30 oysters, or 1 pt. 2 cups crumbs 

3 tbsp. butter Salt and pepper 

Oyster juice or milk 

Prepare the melted butter and crumbs. Place half of them 
in layers between the oysters and reserve the other half for the 
top of the dish. Add oyster juice or milk if desired. Cayenne is 
a good seasoning used with the black pepper. 

Miss Mabel A. Leas 

OYSTER PIE (Very Old Recipe) 

Make a rich puff paste; roll out twice as thick as for a fruit 
pie for the top crust — about the ordinary thickness for the lower. 
Line a pudding dish with the thinner, and fill with crusts of dry 
bread or light crackers. Butter the edges of the dish, that you 
may be able to lift the upper crust without breaking. Cover the 
empty pie with the thick crust, ornamented heavily at the edge, 
that it may lie the more quietly, to bake. Cook the oj^sters as 
for a stew, only beating into them at the last 2 eggs, and thickening 
with a spoonful of fine cracker-cnmibs. They should stew but 
5 minutes; time them so that the paste will be baked just in 
season to receive them. Lift the top crust, pour in the smoking 
hot oysters and send in hot. 

I know that many consider it unnecessary to prepare the 
oysters and crust separately; but my experience and observation 
go to prove that if this precaution be omitted, the oysters are apt 
to be wofully overdone. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

STEAMED OYSTERS 

If you have no steamer, improvise one with the help of a 
colander and a pot-lid fitting closely into it, at a little distance 
from the top. Wash some shell oysters and lay them in such a 
position in the bottom of the colander that the liquor will not escape 
from them when the shell opens (that is, with the upper shell 
down). Cover with a cloth thrown over the top of the colandef, 
and press the lid hard down upon this to exclude the air. Set 

58 



OYSTERS 

over a pot of boiling water so deep that the colander, which should 
fit into the mouth, does not touch the water. Boil hard for 20 
minutes, then make an examination of the oysters. If they are 
open, you are safe in removing the cover. Serve on the half- 
shell, or upon a hot chafing-dish. Sprinkle a little salt over them 
and a few bits of butter; but be quick in whatever you do, for the 
glory of the steamed oyster is to be eaten hot. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BAKED OYSTERS 

12 large oysters 1 little grated lemon rind 

2 lbs. butter 1 tbsp. grated Parmesan cheese 

Vi gill cream Salt, pepper, grate of nutmeg and 

1 tbsp. anchovy essence few bread crumbs 

Put the butter in a saucepan, add the cream, stir till hot, add 
the anchovy essence and lemon rind. Pour half of this mixture 
into a buttered pudding-dish and lay the oysters on it. Sprinkle 
over the cheese and bread crumbs. Pour over the remainder of 
the sauce, season and sprinkle over more bread crumbs and bake 
in hot oven until nice and brown. Serve in same dish. 

Mrs. a. Reed McIntire 

STUFFED TOMATOES WITH OYSTERS 

12 ripe and roimd tomatoes 6 bulbs garlic, peeled and pressed 

2 doz. oysters without shells 1 bunch parsley 

3 or 4 medium dry onions 5 or 6 finely crushed crackers 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut the tops of the tomatoes in such a way as to leave them 
partly attached to the whole ones, in order to act as lids; then, 
after digging out the inside of each tomato with the aid of either 
a spoon or a sharp knife, fill lightly with the stuffing made of the 
ingredients listed above and prepared in the following manner: 

Cut the oysters into halves, thirds or quarters, adding the 
finely chopped onions, the juice of the garlic, the finely cut parsley 
and the well-crushed crackers. Season to taste and mix well. 

The stuffed tomatoes should then be arranged in a suitable 
pan, side by side, and after covering the whole with a little more 
crushed crackers, bake in a moderately hot oven until well cooked. 
Serve hot. Mrs. Gustave A. Van Lennep 

59 



THE MODERN CLUB 



OYSTER BROTH IN CUPS 

The oyster broth is made with 1 qt. of hot milk and >^ pt. 
of oysters in their Hquor, exactly as for oyster stew, or in this 
proportion if a large quantity is required. It is seasoned with 
celery salt, butter and black pepper, strained, and served in cups 
with or without whipped cream, and small oyster crackers passed 
with it. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CLAM AND OYSTER JUICE 

Cut clams or oysters into several pieces, and heat for a few 
minutes in their juice. Strain through muslin and serve hot. 
Great care must be taken in straining that sand does not pass 
through the muslin. If the juice is too strong, water may be added. 
This broth may be frozen for those who cannot take it hot. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CLAM FRITTERS 

1 cup flour 1 egg 

1 tsp. salt y-i cup milk 

1 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. butter (melted) 

1 cup chopped clams 

Sift the dry ingredients together. Beat the eggs and add the 
milk to it. Add this mixture to the dry ingredients, then add 
the melted butter and the clams. Drop by tablespoonfuls into 
hot fat and cook until the batter is done and the fritters are brown. 

Miss Mabel A. Leas 

CLAM BROTH 

(Clams in shell) 

6 large clams 1 cup water 

Scrub the clams thoroughly and place them in a saucepan 
with water. Cook until the shells open, then strain the broht 
through muslin. Serve hot. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CLAM PUREE 

1 pt. boiled clams 1 tbsp. flour 

1 pt. hot milk iy2 tbsp. butter 

Salt and pepper 
60 



LOBSTERS 

Remove the dark substance from the soft part of the clams 
and chop the hard part very fine. Melt the butter, add the salt 
and pepper and the milk gradually. Add the clams, and when 
hot strain and serve. Mrs. F. M. Mitchell 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Vz lb. salt pork 2 onions 

6 ripe tomatoes or iVz qts. canned 6 potatoes (ordinary size) 

tomatoes 60 clams (chopped) 

Cayenne pepper 

Cut salt pork into cubes about >^ inch square. Chop onions 
fine. Place pork and onions into a frying-pan and brown together. 
Peel and chop ripe tomatoes. Put pork and onions with the toma- 
toes in the soup-pot. Add 1 pt. of water to the above. Let this 
cook a while. Peel and cut potatoes into small cubes, add to the 
above when potatoes are well cooked. Add chopped clams and 
juice, straining juice 3 times. Season with cayenne pepper to 
suit taste and allow the chowder to cook slowly and well. Serve 
with pilot crackers. Mrs. K. S. Leuders 

CLAM PUREE 

30 clams 1 tbsp. flour 

1 qt. milk 1 tbsp. butter 

Vi cup cream 1 tsp. salt 

Dash of paprika 

Wash clams through colander and heat in saucepan. Mix 
flour and butter, then the cream, and stir into the milk already 
heated in double boiler. Stir the dressing into the hot clams, but 
do not cook the clams. This will serve 6 people. 

Mrs. Harold DeLancey Downs 

LOBSTERS 

Lobsters should be put into boiling salted water and cooked 
for 20 minutes; 3 tbsp. salt may be used with 4 qts. boiling water. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CLAMS AND LOBSTER IN SHELLS 

Have three small, cold, boiled lobsters. Remove the meat 
from the shells and retain the shells for use later. Chop the lobster 

61 



THE MODERN CLUB 



coarsely, and add to the meat half the quantity of chopped clams. 
Sprinkle with minced parsley and season with melted butter to 
taste, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fill some of the deepest 
clam shells and the empty lobster shells with the mixture, sprinkle 
over thickly with buttered bread cnmibs, and brown in a hot oven. 

The Epicure, Boston 



COLD CHICKEN LOBSTER WITH MAYONNAISE 

Remove the lobster meat from the shells and garnish with the 
small claws and tails. It is best served in the shell, being put back 
in the shell after trimming the latter and removing tail and claws, 
and serving on a very large platter in a bed of cress, garnished with 
quartered lemons. Pass mayonnaise in a sauce-boat separately. 

The Epicure, Boston 



LOBSTER CROQUETTES 

2 cups lobster meat 1 cup thick white sauce 

V2 tsp. salt Dash of cayenne pepper 

Vi tsp. mustard Bread crumbs 

1 tsp. lemon juice 1 egg 

Add to chopped lobster meat the salt, mustard and cayenne 
pepper. Add white sauce and cool. Shape in round croquettes, 
dip in crumbs, then in beaten egg, and again in crumbs, and fry 
in deep fat. Serve with tomato cream sauce made this way: 

^2 can tomatoes Onion 

Bay leaf Salt and pepper 

Thyme Vi tsp. soda 

Celery 1 cup white sauce 

Cook tomatoes for 20 minutes with a bit of bay leaf, a sprig 
of thyme, a stalk of celery and a slice of onion. Rub through 
a strainer, add salt and pepper to taste, and then white sauce. 
Stir thoroughly together and serve with the croquettes. This is 
also good with baked halibut or other white fish. 

The Epicure, Boston 
62 



TERRAPIN 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG (Delmonico's) 

2 lobsters (freshly boiled) 1 tbsp. butter 

y^ pt. rich cream Pinch of salt 

1 cup milk Pinch of pepper 

1 tbsp. cornstarch Yolks of 3 eggs 

2 wineglasses cider 

Split 2 freshly boiled lobsters, pick and cut into 1-inch pieces. 
Place in saucepan with butter, salt and red pepper. Cook 5 
minutes. Add cider. Boil 3 minutes. Beat yolks of eggs very 
light, add to them milk and cream. Put the whole in another 
saucepan and heat very hot. Dissolve cornstarch in cold water 
and add the lobster mixture to cornstarch. Stir 1 minute longer, 
then turn in chafing-dish and serve on hot plates. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

TERRAPIN 

Preparation for Stewing 

Place the terrapin in cold water for 10 minutes, then in boiling 
water. Boil for 10 minutes, then put into fresh boiling water with 
1 tbsp. salt, and cook slowly until the legs are tender and the claws 
can be removed. Take the terrapin from the water, remove the 
claws and the under shell. When cool remove the body from the 
upper shell. Remove the legs, skin them, and break them into 
small pieces. Remove the gall carefully, also the hard intestines. 
The gall will be found imbedded in one of the lobes of the liver 
and must not be broken. Break the meat in small pieces. Put 
the eggs and liver in a dish by themselves. If there are no eggs, 
or only a few, the yolks of 3 hen's eggs, which have been cooked 
hard, may be substituted. Contributed 

STEWED TERRAPIN 

1 terrapin 1/2 tsp, salt 

y-i cup cream Vs tsp. white pepper 

4 tbsp. butter Cayenne 

1 tbsp. flour Yf, cup cider 

Stew all of the tough meat for 10 minutes in some of the water 
in which the terrapin was cooked. Heat 1 tbsp. of the butter in 
a saucepan or chafing-dish. When hot add the flour. Add the 

63 



THE MODERN CLUB 



terrapin and seasoning. Cook until the first tablespoon of butter 
is nearly absorbed, then add the remainder of the butter. When 
again hot, add the cream slowly. Stir constantly. Taste the 
mixture at this point and add more seasoning if needed. Add the 
cider and cook until hot. If preferred, the eggs may be mashed 
and mixed with the second tablespoon of butter before adding it 
to the terrapin. If the terrapin is small, the full measure of cream 
and cider will not be required. 

Mrs. Charles G. Hodge 



DEVILED CRABS, No. 1 

6 crabs Vi tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter Cayenne 

2 tbsp. flour iVi cups cream 

Vi tsp. Worcestershire sauce 



BUTTERED CRUMBS FOR CRABS 

3 tbsp. butter Pepper 

y\ tsp. salt 2 cups bread crumbs 

Cook the crabs in boiling salted water for 30 minutes. Place 
in cold water for 5 minutes. Remove the claws and the apron 
found on the under shell. Remove the shells. The stomach should 
be left under the head. Remove the gills and intestines. Break 
the body in half and remove the meat from the bones. Make a 
sauce of the above ingredients, season highly and add the crab 
meat to this. If the mixture is too stiff, add milk or cream to 
make it the right consistency. Wash and scrub the upper shell 
and fill it with the mixture. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake 
20 minutes, or until brown. If desired, 1 tbsp. chopped parsley 
and the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs may be added to the crab 
mixture. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

DEVILED CRABS, No. 2 

1 pt. crab meat, or 1 doz. crabs 1 tbsp. parsley, cut fine 

V^ pt. milk 1 onion, grated 

1 heaping tbsp. flour Salt and cayenne to taste 

Butter size of an egg Nearly a whole nutmeg 

1 small carrot 1 tbsp. mustard 

64 



CRABS 

Boil crabs ^ hour. Boil the milk. Rub together flour, but- 
ter and mustard, mix with the boihng milk, let boil and stir until 
thick. Mix all together very well. This will make nine well-filled 
shells. They are better fried than baked. 

Miss Marian L. Haines 

CRAB RAVIGOTE, No. 1 

1 pt. crab meat 1 large green pepper 

2 large fresh ripe tomatoes 1 red pepper 

1 tsp. chopped parsley 

Chop tomatoes and peppers fine (removing seeds from pep- 
pers) . Mix all together with mayonnaise enough to have wet and 
moist; season. Fill crab shells or eggs with mixture and garnish 
top with 2 anchovies and a small piece of cut pickle and lemon. 

Mrs. a. Reed McIntire 

CRAB FLAKES RAVIGOTE, No. 2 

The desired quantity of crab flakes are marinated in sauce 
Ravigote, which is made from oil and vinegar in the proportion 
of 1 tbsp. of vinegar to 3 of oil, salt, pepper, 2 tbps. of small capers, 
some very finely minced onion and parsley mixed with half as 
much minced chervil, tarragon and chives, and thoroughly mixed. 
Drain and fill scallop shells with the crab flakes and mask with 
mayonnaise. Decorate with capers and tiny strips of red and green 
peppers, and serve as a first course with some tiny sandwiches of 
whole wheat bread. Miss Marian L. Haines 



65 



ENTREES 

Beside harts, . . . and fatted fowl.— I Kings iv, 23. 



ENTRIES 

SWEETBREAD PATTIES 

1 pair sweetbreads Vi tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter White pepper 
2 tbsp. flour Cayenne 

1 cup cream 

Sweetbreads spoil very quickly. Remove from paper at 
once, soak in cold water 10 minutes and parboil 15 minutes. Add 
salt 5 minutes before they are done. Put them in cold water for 
15 minutes, then remove the tough portions. Cut the sweetbreads 
into small pieces and chop the mushrooms fine. Make a white 
sauce of the butter, flour, seasoning and cream. Add the sweet- 
breads and the mushrooms and, when hot, serve in patty dishes 
or timbales. If desired, the mushrooms may be omitted and twice 
as many sweetbreads used. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

METHOD OF PREPARING MUSHROOMS FOR COOKING 

Scrape the stems, cut off the ends. Peel the caps of the mush- 
rooms. Wash them in salted water to remove the insects from the 
gills. Soak a few minutes in fresh cold water. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ENGLISH MONKEY 

1 cup stale bread crumbs V2 cup soft cheese 

1 cup milk 1 egg 

1 tbsp. butter Va tsp. salt 

Cayenne 

This is fine to make in a chafing-dish if one is nervous about 
making a rarebit, as this cannot go wrong. 

Soak stale bread crumbs in milk for 15 minutes. Melt butter, 
add cheese cut in small pieces and stir until cheese is melted ; then 
add bread crumbs and just before serving add egg slightly beaten, 
salt and a few grains of cayenne. Serve on crackers or toast. 

Mrs. Mason Thomson 

CHEESE FONDU 

1 tbsp. butter 1 cup bread crumbs 

2 cups grated cheese Salt 

34 tsp. mustard Paprika 

1 cup milk 2 eggs 

71 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Melt butter, cheese and mustard; add milk and bread crumbs, 
and stir over boiling water. Add salt and paprika. Beat 2 eggs 
separately. Add yolks, cook until hot, fold in whites. Serve on 
crackers. Nice for chafing dish. Mrs. Arthur Bunting 

SCALLOPED CHEESE 

1 cup dried bread crumbs V^ lb. grated cheese 

2 cups milk Pepper and salt 

3 eggs 1 tbsp. butter 

Soak bread crumbs in milk for >^ hour. Beat eggs light and 
stir in grated cheese, pepper and salt to taste, and butter cut into 
small pieces. Mix all thoroughly together. Butter a pudding- 
dish, pour mixture in, sprinkle top with bread crumbs and bake 
for 15 minutes in a hot oven. Mrs. H. T. Siddons 

CHEESE DREAMS 

Between two slices of bread put a piece of cheese as for a 
sandwich. Cut off the crusts and butter the outside of each slice 
of bread. Fry in butter and when the sandwich is browned the 
cheese will have partially melted. 

Mrs. Mason Thomson 

CHEESE "DELUSIONS" 

Cream cheese Vi cup nut meats 

V2 tsp. salt and cayenne 

Work a cream cheese until smooth, add finely chopped nut 
meats, salt and cayenne. Shape in balls the size of an English 
walnut, roll in finely chopped nut meats, flatten and place halves 
of English walnuts on opposite sides of each piece. Arrange on 
a doily-covered plate in a pyramid. 

Mrs. Martha Austin McDowell 

CHEESE SOUFFLE, No. 1 

2 tbsp. butter 1 cup grated cheese 

3 tbsp. flour 3 eggs 

y^ cup milk V2 tsp. salt 

Pinch of cayenne 
72 



ENTRIES 

Put the butter into a saucepan, and when hot add the flour 
and stir until smooth. Add the milk and seasoning. Remove to 
the back of the stove and add the well-beaten yolks and cheese. 
Set away to cool. When cool add the whites of the eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered dish and bake about 25 minutes. 
Serve the moment it comes from the oven. 

Mrs. Charles S. Barnes 

CHEESE SOUFFLE, No. 2 

2 tbsp. butter 3 eggs 

IV2 tbsp. flotir yz tsp. salt 

V2 cup milk Cayenne 

1 cup grated cheese Soda 

Put the butter into a saucepan, and when hot add the flour 
and stir until smooth; add the milk and seasoning. Cook 2 
minutes. Remove to the back of the stove and add the well- 
beaten yolks and the cheese. Set away to cool. When cold add 
the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered 
dish and bake for 20 or 25 minutes. Serve the moment it comes 
from the oven. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CHEESE SOUFFLE, No. 3 

Vi cup American cheese (grated) V2 pt- niilk 

2 tbsp. flour V2 doz. eggs 

V4 cup butter (scant) V2 tsp. baking powder 

Melt cheese and butter together. While hot, stir in flour, 
then milk. Cool. Then add baking powder. Beat eggs separately, 
stir all together and bake 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

CHEESE SOUFFLE, No. 4 

2 eggs xy-i cups white sauce 

Vi lb. grated cheese 

To the beaten yolks of eggs add white sauce, middling thick, 
and cheese. Put the cheese into the warm white sauce, let cool, 
add stiffly beaten whites of eggs ; fold them in lightly but do not 
beat again. Bake in a moderate oven 45 minutes. Serve at once. 

Mrs. H. M. Langdon 
73 



THE MODERN CLUB 



TOMATO AND CHEESE TOAST 

8 slices thin brown toast 2 cups strained and seasoned toma- 

1 tbsp. grated cheese toes, not thickened 

1 tsp. chopped parsley 

Put the toast on platter that can be put in oven; pour over 
the hot tomato sauce and sprinkle with the cheese (cheese is a 
matter of taste) ; put into hot oven 10 minutes, or until the bread 
has absorbed the tomato and the top is crisp. Sprinkle with 
parsley. Mrs. George Fetteroff 

CHEESE DISH 

4 slices bread Salt 

Vi lb. American cheese Paprika 

11/2 cups milk Baking soda 

Butter well a pudding-dish, put in small, very thin slices of 
bread and butter to cover the bottom and thin slices of American 
cheese to cover this. Sprinkle with a generous pinch of salt, 
paprika and baking soda. Repeat this until dish is full. Pour 
on milk to barely cover and set in hot oven for ]/2 hour, when it 
will be brown and puffy. Serve at once. For 2 or 3 persons. 

Mrs. F, Dinwiddie Walker 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 

3 tbsp. flour Vz cup American cheese 

Vs cup milk Salt 

1 egg Pepper 

1/2 cup Gruyere cheese Cayenne 

Bread crumbs 

Wet flour, stir till smooth, add milk gradually. When this 
is boiling add the yolk of 1 egg unbeaten. When well mixed add 
grated cheese. Add salt, pepper and cayenne. Spread this in a 
shallow buttered pan, when cold turn it out on a board, cut and 
mold into shape. Dip in crumbs, then in beaten egg, then in 
crumbs again, fry in hot fat, drain on paper. 

Mrs. a. Reed McIntire 

CHEESE BALLS 

1 cup grated cheese (dry) Whites of 3 eggs 

10 drops Worcestershire sauce Cracker crumbs 

74 



ENTRIES 

Mix lightly the cheese, Worcestershire sauce and whites of 
eggs beaten stiff. Shape into small balls, roll in cracker crumbs 
and fry in deep fat until brown. Drain and serve hot. 

Contributed 

RED DEVIL 

Green peppers 1 tsp. salt 

1 tbsp, butter 2 cups chopped cheese 

V2 cup milk 3 eggs 

1 can Campbell's tomato soup 

Fry green peppers well chopped in butter. Add milk, salt 
and cheese. Stir continually until cheese is melted. Add eggs 
well beaten. Add tomato soup. When hot, serve on hot buttered 
toast. Mrs. D. H. Cantrell 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 

1 cup grated cheese Whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff 

6 drops Worcestershire sauce froth 

A slight shake of red pepper 

Beat the cheese into the whites with a fork. Add the Wor- 
cestershire sauce and pepper and pour into the shape of a butter 
ball. Have a little shake of cracker dust in the hand while 
forming. Fry 3 minutes in boiling fat; serve at once. 

Miss M. W. Lovell 

CHEESE PUDDING 

1 pt. milk IV^ cups grated cheese 

2 eggs y^ tsp. salt 
1 pt. bread crumbs Soda 

Put the milk in a buttered baking-dish, add the beaten eggs, 
the crumbs, salt and soda which have been mixed. Bake in 
moderate heat until browned on top. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ESCALLOPED CHEESE 

1 cup bread crumbs soaked in milk 1 tbsp. butter 

2 eggs 1/2 lb. grated cheese 

75 



THE MODERN CLUB 



To bread crumbs soaked in milk add well-beaten eggs, 
butter and grated cheese. Strew bread crumbs on the top and 
bake in the oven a delicate brown. This is an excellent dish for 
supper with thin slices of bread and butter. 

Mrs. Aubrey J. Dando 

WELSH RAREBIT, No. 1 

Vi lb. grated cheese Cayenne 

V4 cup cream or milk 1 egg 

Vi or 1 tsp. mustard 1 tsp. butter 

V2 tsp. salt Dry toast 

Soda (just a tip) 

Put the cheese and milk or cream into a double boiler. Mix 
the mustard, salt and cayenne. Add the egg and beat well. When 
the cheese is melted, stir in the mixture of dry ingredients and egg, 
then the butter, and cook until it thickens. Stir it constantly 
and pour it over toast. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

WELSH RAREBIT, No. 2 

1 tbsp. butter Vz lb. soft mild cheese 

1 tsp. cornstarch Vi tsp. salt 

V2 cup thin cream yz tsp. mustard 

Cayenne 

Melt butter, add cornstarch and stir until well mixed; then 
add thin cream and cook 2 minutes. Add cheese cut in small 
pieces, salt, mustard and a few grains of cayenne. Stir until cheese 
has melted and mixture is of a creamy consistency. Serve on 
toast. Mrs. Mason Thomson 

CHEESE RICE 

2 cups cold boiled rice V2 cup grated cheese 

Vz scant cup hot milk A few shreds of pimento 

Heat rice and milk thoroughly over water, sprinkle lightly 
over it grated cheese and pimento. Cover lightly and let stand 
over the hot water until cheese is melted. This is acceptable for 
Sunday night tea. Miss Marie A. Jones 

76 



ENTREES 



POTATOES WITH CHEESE 



Dice cold potatoes and season well with salt, pepper and 
melted butter. In a buttered baking-dish arrange alternate layers 
of potatoes, grated cheese and white sauce and bake. 

WHITE SAUCE 
2 tbsp. butter 1 cup milk 

2 tbsp. flour Salt and pepper 

Miss Marie A, Jones 

ENTREE OF APPLES AND PORK 

Cut sour apples (pippins) into slices without skinning them; 
fry or saute them with small strips of pork. Serve both, tastefully 
arranged, on the same dish. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FORCE-MEAT BALLS 

1 cup cooked meat (chopped fine) 1 tsp. parsley 

V4 tsp. salt Yolk of 1 raw egg 

Vi tsp. thyme Onion juice 

Pepper 2 tbsp. flour 

1 tsp. lemon juice 2 tbsp. butter 

Add the seasoning to the meat. Beat the eggs and add 
enough to moisten the meat. Make the mixture into balls the 
size of a nutmeg. Roll them in flour and brown them in butter. 

Contributed 

NOODLES WITH CHEESE 

Cook yi cup of noodles in boiling salted water for 20 minutes, 
or until soft. Drain them in a colander. 

SAUCE 
2V2 tbsp. butter White pepper 

IV2 tbsp. flour IV2 cups milk 

3^ tsp. salt % cup grated cheese 

Make a white sauce of the above ingredients, adding the cheese 
last. Butter 6 pattie dishes and fill them two-thirds full of the 
cooked noodles. Cover with sauce, and then with buttered crumbs. 
Place the dishes in a pan of hot water and bake until the crumbs are 
brown. About 2 cups of crumbs will be required for six dishes. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
77 



/^ 



MEATS, POULTRY, GAME AND EGGS 

I smell the smell of roasting meat, 

I hear the hissing fry. — O. W. Holmes. 

And the same John had his raiment of camel's hair, . . . and his meat was 
locusts and wild honey. — Matthew iii, 4. 



MEATS 

ROAST BEEF 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth. Trim and skewer into 
shape. Weigh it. Lay the meat on a rack in a meat pan, and 
place 2 tbsp. dripping, or some pieces of fat from the beef, in the 
bottom of the pan. Place it in a hot oven, on the grate, to sear 
the meat; this will keep the juices in and take about 10 minutes. 
The fat side of the meat may be placed down until it sears, that it 
may not bum, then turned that it may become crisp. Lower the 
temperature after searing by removing the meat to the floor of the 
oven. For a small roast allow about 10 minutes for each pound; 
for a large one, about 15 minutes for each pound. When the 
meat is seared it may be dredged with salt and pepper, and must 
be basted often. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ROAST BEEF WITH GARNISH JARDINIERE 

Roast the beef in the usual way, and when done carve in the 
kitchen, placing thick, rare slices overlapping on a hot platter 
with a wide edge. For the garnish, which is typical of the foreign 
fashion of serving the piece de resistance at a meal, there should 
be a variety of vegetables, boiled in salted water until tender and 
then heated in a little melted butter and well seasoned. A good 
combination is cauliflower, string beans, carrots and peas, and 
another may be artichoke bottoms filled with French peas, 
braised celery in three-inch lengths, and bouquets of cauliflower. 
Or green peppers stuffed and baked and served with green string 
beans and carrots and cooked yellow turnip cut in fancy shapes. 
There is infinite variety in the combinations, and the vegetables 
should be placed in little groups around the platter, one for each 
portion, and separated by a sprig of water-cress or parsley. The 
cauliflower should be separated in small bouquets, the string beans 
saute in butter, the carrots cut in small, cork-shaped pieces and 
also saute, and the peas may be cooked with a little onion and 
bacon. Small onions boiled are always a satisfactory addition to 
any of these garnishes. Contributed 

ROAST BEEF A LA ARMENIA 

4 to 5 lbs. filet of beef, mutton or 3 or 4 ripe tomatoes 

Iamb, in one piece or 

2 or 3 dry onions 5 or 6 tbsp. canned tomatoes 

1 tbsp. butter 6 or 7 medium-sized potatoes 

1 cup water Salt and pepper to taste 

83 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Put the meat in a large roasting-pan and, with the aid of a 
sharp-pointed knife, pierce it deeply from all sides. Then slice 
over this the onions, pour the water in, season to taste and boil 
over a moderate fire until all the water evaporates. This done, 
rub over it the butter, adding also the tomatoes, which must be 
cut in small pieces, and the skinned potatoes cut into halves. 
Place the pan in a moderately hot oven until well done. 

Serve this roast in slices with its own gravy and with a vege- 
table salad. Madame Mathilde R. Van Lennep 



BROILING OR GRILLING BEEFSTEAK 

Wipe, trim ofE extra fat. Grease the gridiron with some of the 
fat. Broil over a clear fire, turning every 10 seconds. Cook 3 or 
4 minutes if liked rare, longer if well done. Serve on a hot platter. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



CELERY SAVORY 

2 large stalks celery 2 green peppers 

1 large onion 2 tbsp. butter 

Chop all rather coarsely and fry in butter slowly until tender. 
Serve with steak. Mrs. George Fetteroff 



FILET OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 

1 filet of beef 1 stalk of celery 

1 small onion 4 cloves 

1 small carrot 2 bay leaves 

Remove all the membrane and excess of fat. Cut strips of 
larding pork 3 inches long, }i inch wide, and yi inch thick. Chill 
the strips in ice water. Lard the upper side of the filet. Slice the 
onion, carrot and celery. Place them with the cloves and bay 
leaves in the bottom of the baking-pan. Place the filet on the 
vegetables; season with salt and pepper and cover with bits of 
butter. Dissolve 1 tsp. salt in >^ cup boiling water and pour it 
into the pan. Bake in a hot oven for 30 minutes. Baste frequently. 
Serve Vith mushroom sauce. 

84 



MEATS 



SAUCE 



Drippings from filet of beef 1 pt. stock 

2 tbsp. butter 1 pt. cooked mushrooms 

4 tbsp. flour 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

14 tsp. salt 
(May use Armour's extract and water, Va tsp. to 1 cup water) 

Heat the butter and drippings until brown. Add the flour 
and then the stock gradually. Strain, add the mushrooms. Cook 
5 minutes, add the Worcestershire sauce and salt to taste. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FILET OF BEEF MIGNONNE 

This is a favorite Parisian recipe. The filets are cut thick 
and broiled rare, first dusting with pepper and salt, and dipping 
in olive oil seasoned with a little onion juice. When brown they 
are removed to a hot platter, garnished with broiled bananas, 
half a banana being placed on each filet, and the following sauce 
poured around: One-half cup cream, salted and whipped stiff, 
with 2 tbsp. grated horseradish, salt and paprika. 

The Epicure, Boston 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING 



IV2 lbs. beefsteak 2 cups flour 

Yz lb. kidney Pepper 

V4 lb. suet Salt 



Make a soft dough with the suet and flour and line a deep 
pudding bowl. Cut up meat and kidney in small pieces, flour, 
pepper and salt it well, put into the dough, add half a cup of water, 
cover the top with more dough, pinch together well, cover with a 
greased paper and tie on a cloth. Put into boiling water and boil 
3 or 4 hours. The kidney can be omitted if not liked. 

Mrs. C. a. Phelps 

BEEF STEW (Drexel Institute) 

1 lb. beef 4 potatoes 

1 onion Salt and pepper 

V2 cup turnip Flour 

V2 cup carrot Water 

85 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Cut the muscle into 1-inch pieces. Put the bone (which has 
been cracked) and any scraps of any tough meat into a kettle of 
cold water (enough to cover them). Melt the fat from the meat 
in a frying-pan ; remove the scraps. Prepare the tender meat by 
seasoning it with salt and pepper and by covering it with flour. 
Brown the onion (which must be sliced) and the meat in the hot 
fat. Brown a small quantity at one time, as the onion cools the 
fat. Add the meat and onions to the bones and water; add enough 
hot water to cover. Cook on the back of the range until the 
meat is tender, from 2 to 3 hours. Half an hour before serving 
remove the fat and bones and add the other vegetables. The 
potatoes must be parboiled for 5 minutes and added to the stew. 
When the vegetables are cooked, put them with the meat on a 
platter. Thicken the gravy if needed. Season and pour over the 
meat and vegetables. Contributed 

HAMBURG LOAF 

IV2 lbs. Hamburg steak 2 sweet peppers, cut fine 

4 slices bacon Vi cup bread crumbs 

1 egg 

To the Hamburg steak add 2 slices of bacon cut fine, sweet 
peppers, bread crtimbs and egg. Work all together with the beef 
and mold in roasting-pan, lay 2 more slices of bacon over the 
top and bake slowly, basting as you would a roast. 

Mrs. H. M. Langdon 

WAKEFIELD STEAK 

Steak 4 tbsp. hot cider 

4 tsp. mushroom catsup 1 tsp. chopped parsley 

2 tsp. brown sugar 2 oz. hot butter 

Vi tsp. salt Potato chips 

Have a piece of filet steak cut l}i inches thick. An hour 
before cooking place the steak, turning it four or five times, in 
the mushroom catsup, brown sugar, salt, hot cider and chopped 
parsley. After being in the above mixture an hour drain, dredge 
with flour and pan broil with the hot butter for 20 minutes, turning 
frequently. Dish filet, drain fat from pan and mix with the pre- 
vious mixture, heat thoroughly and pour over the steak. Potato 
chips garnish the dish. Mrs. H. T. Siddons 

86 



MEATS 



BEEF A LA DUTCH 



1 onion 6 mushrooms 

1 or 2 tomatoes 2 lamb kidneys 

1 oz. butter y^ lb. beef chipped from tender 

1 green pepper part of round 

Mince onion and fry with the butter. Mince the other 
vegetables and let cook 10 minutes. Cut beef into 1-inch strips 
and kidneys into cubes and saute with vegetables for 5 minutes. 
Add Yi cup of stock or water and let cook 10 or 15 minutes longer 
and serve. Season well, a pinch of cayenne. 

Mrs. H. T. Siddons 



PHILIPPINE ROLL 

2 lb. chopped beef 1 cup milk 

2 pork chops Salt and pepper 

2 small peppers 3 strips salt pork 

1 cup bread crumbs 1 pt. stewed tomatoes 

Grind all together except the tomatoes and salt pork, make 
into a roll, put 3 strips of salt pork. Bake in slow oven 2 hours; 
yi hour before it is finished pour stewed tomatoes over it. 

Mrs. F. R. Savidge 



COLD MEAT ROLL 

1 lb. boiled ham A few cloves 

1 lb. raw beef y^ cup water 

2 cups bread crumbs V^ cup gelatin 

3 eggs, well beaten 1/4 tsp. kitchen bouquet 

1 small onion, chopped 1 tbsp. parsley, chopped fine 

Put the ham and beef through a meat chopper. To this add 
bread cnunbs, eggs and onions. Mix well and fold into a cloth 
the desired length, making a roll tied at each end. Boil this lyi 
hours, dropping a few cloves into the water. When ready to 
serve cold, heat together the water, gelatin, kitchen bouquet 
and parsley. Pour this over the roll ^ hour before serving. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
87 



THE MODERN CLUB 



"TASTIES" 

1 lb. round beef V2 cup water 

1 onion Dash of pepper 

V2 green pepper Salt 

1 can tomato soup Butter 

Slice the onion over the beef; slice pepper over onion; pour 
tomato soup and water over all. Season with dash of pepper, salt 
and butter. Bake ^ hour. Keep lid on while baking. 

Mrs. John S. Elliott 

BAKED PEACHES 

Use unripe peaches ; halve them and add a few drops of lemon 
juice and brown sugar. Bake. To serve around meat. 

Miss Alice L. Van Lennep 

POT ROAST WITH VEGETABLES 

2 lbs. meat 2 cups turnips or cabbage 
2 cups carrots 2 cups parsnips 

2 cups rutabagas 1 onion 

Choose a piece of meat with some bone and a little fat, such 
as pork or beef shoulder, or brisket. Brown the meat well on all 
sides in a hot kettle, with a bit of fat. Add 2 cups of water, cover 
closely and cook slowly for about 4 hours, adding water as neces- 
sary. The last three-quarters of an hour add the vegetables, 
pared and cut in pieces. Serve the meat whole on the platter 
with vegetables arranged around it. Miss Marie A. Jones 

TONGUE, WITH MUSTARD PICKLE SAUCE 

Cut boiled tongue into slices ; fry them in a little hot butter, 
with a sprinkle of minced onion thrown in. Then, for the sauce, 
take out the slices of tongue; put in 1 tsp. of flour, and when 
brown, a teacup of hot water. When done, strain and season with 
salt and pepper ; add 1 tbsp. of chopped pickles ; or the sauce may 
be flavored with capers, or with both capers and pickles. Let the 
slices of tongue soak in the sauce until ready to serve, then arrange 
the slices of tongue on a platter, one lapped over the other, and 
pour over the sauce. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



TONGUE 



TONGUE 



The tip of the tongue may be fastened by a skewer. A fresh 
tongue is put into boiling water and cooked in the same manner 
as mutton. It takes several hours to cook it; when cooked throw 
it into cold water to remove the skin. A salted tongue may be 
put into cold water and heated slowly, and then cooked at a low 
temperature until tender. Contributed 

BRAISED TONGUE 

1 fresh beef tongue 1 pt. stewed and strained tomatoes 

3 tbsp. butter 1 onion, chopped 

3 heaping tbsp. flour y^ tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 

1 pt. water in which tongue was Pepper 
cooked 

Boil a fresh beef tongue slowly for 2 hours, then skin it and 
put it in a casserole ; melt butter and flour and brown ; add water 
in which the tongue was cooked and tomatoes ; beat until smooth 
and thick; add onion, Worcestershire sauce and pepper; pour 
over tongue, cover and simmer in the oven for 2 hours: Serve on 
platter with the sauce poured over it. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

STUFFED TONGUE 

6 tongues of sheep or lamb V4 cup seedless black raisins 

Vz cup well-washed rice V4 cup shelled and chopped pis- 

1 tbsp. butter tachio nuts 

2 or 3 medium dry onions 1 pinch spice 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Leave the tongues in cold water for 1 or 2 hours, then 
wash well, skin and cut open on the one side, lengthwise, but not 
to the outermost ends. Then make the mixture of the ingredients 
listed above in the following manner : 

Fry well in the butter the well-washed rice and the finely 
chopped onions, and after 5 to 10 minutes add the raisins and the 
pistachio nuts, well chopped, also the spice and salt and pepper to 
taste. 

With this mixture fill the openings of the tongues with the 
aid of a spoon, and either tie or sew them with white thread to 

89 



THE MODERN CLUB 



prevent scattering the ingredients. Then arrange the stuffed 
tongues side by side in a suitable pan, and after covering them 
with plain water, boil over a moderate fire. Serve hot and use 
the broth as soup, if desired. Mrs. G. A. Van Lennep 

HAM 

Put into cold water and heat gradually. Cook at low tempera- 
ture until tender. Cool in the water in which it was cooked. When 
cold take it out and draw off the skin. It may be covered with fine 
crumbs and 3 tbsp. sugar, and placed in the oven for yi hour. 

Contributed 

OLD VIRGINIA SMITHFIELD HAM 

1 tbsp. soda 2 tbsp. red pepper 
yi cup sugar 1 bay leaf 

2 tbsp. mustard Bread crumbs 

Soak in cold water to which has been added the soda for 24 
hours. Put on to cook in fresh cold water at breakfast time. 
Simmer slowly until half done. Pour off the water and fill the 
kettle with boiling water to which has been added sugar, mustard 
mixed smooth, red pepper and bay leaf. Boil slowly until done. 
Set aside until quite cold, remove skin, cover with fine bread 
cnmibs, add a little sugar. Bake in hot oven until brown. It is 
better eaten cold, cut thin as possible. The R. H. Jones ham and 
Dodd hams are good substitutes. This is a genuine Virginia recipe. 

Mrs. John Wood, Jr. 

BAKED HAM 

Onion Cloves 

Parsley Brown sugar 

Bay leaf Lemon juice 

After scrubbing and soaking ham over night put on to boil 
in cold water until tender (3 hours or more). Add onion, bay leaf 
and parsley to cold water. Allow ham to cool in own water, after 
which remove the skin, score the fat into squares, inserting a clove 
to a square scored. Cover with brown sugar and bake an hour or 
until brown and tender. Baste with lemon juice. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
90 



HAM 



BAKED HAM 



Select your ham, about 15 lb. ham if possible with 1 inch of 
fat. Use one-half or more for baking, large end. Make a thick 
dough of flour and water, cover ham, cut side up. Take one quart 
of vinegar, one cup of sugar and three bay leaves, heat on stove 
and baste ham very often. (Use more vinegar and sugar if neces- 
sary.) Bake 3 hours. Remove crust of dough and serve. 

Evelyn Merwin 

BAKED HAM 

When boiling ham put in 1 cup of black molasses, 1 onion, 
a few cloves and a very small handful of peppercorns. 

Let the ham cool in the water in which it has been boiled. 
Skim. Rub brown sugar over the ham and brown in a slow oven 
for 1 hour, basting every 15 minutes with the liquor in which it 
has been cooked. " Mrs. Ernest T. Trigg 

FRIED HAM 

After the ham has been slightly browned pour over >^ cup 
of sweet pickle juice to each slice, and simmer slowly for 10 
minutes. Miss Marie A. Jones 

BAKED SMITHFIELD HAM 
(Recipe from Richmond, Va.) 

Soak over night, after thoroughly scrubbing the ham with a 
stiff hand brush. Boil it, 25 minutes to the pound, in the same 
water in which it soaked over night. When done let it partly 
cool and then peel the skin off, sprinkle it well with brown sugar 
and stick the fatty side with cloves. Place it in the baking-pan 
and brown in the oven. Miss Violette T. Haines 

ROYAL SCALLOP 

Cold ham Macaroni 

6 eggs, hard boiled White sauce 

Bread crumbs 

Chop cold pieces of ham very fine, chop eggs fine. Into a 
buttered baking-dish put a layer of chopped cooked macaroni, 

91 



THE MODERN CLUB 



then a layer of ham, then a layer of egg. Over all pour a medium 
white sauce. Sprinkle the top with bread crumbs and bake >^ 
hour. Mrs. Walter Wilhelm 

HAM TIMBALES 

2 cups ground ham Little chopped parsley, salt and 

1 cup bread crumbs pepper 

1 egg, well beaten 

Make a cream dressing of butter, milk and flour, and stir 
into it the above ingredients. Grease little cups and fill with 
mixture and cook in oven a half hour. 

Mrs. Richard H. Blythe 

"TASTIES" 

1 lb. slice ham 2 tbsp. vinegar 

2 tsp. brown sugar Yz cup water 
1 tsp. mustard Pepper 

Rub sugar and mustard on both sides of ham. Pour vinegar 
and water over ham ; add a little pepper. Bake ^4 hour. Keep 
lid on while baking. Mrs. John S. Elliott 

FRIED BACON WITH EGG 

Fry the bacon. Break eggs and drop them whole into the 
hot fat. Cook on low fire without turning. 

SAUSAGE IN BLANKET 

Take about 1 lb. of sausage meat, cover with soda biscuit 
dough ^ of an inch thick. Bake until sausage is well cooked, 
basting constantly and until crust is brown. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

PORK AND BEANS 

Parboil a piece of the middling of salt pork, and score the 
skin. Allow a pound to a quart of dried beans, which must be 
soaked over night in lukewarm water. Change this twice for more 
and warmer water, and in the morning put them on to boil in 

92 



PORK 

cold. When they are soft, drain off the liquor, put the beans in a 
deep dish, and half bury the pork in the middle, adding a very 
little warm water. Bake a nice brown. 

Miss Violette J. Haines 

ROAST YOUNG PIG, SOUTHERN STYLE 

Take a medium roasting piece of young pork, wash, wipe 
dry, dust with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and put in a 
roasting-pan with a little sage sprinkled over and yi cup of hot 
water. Arrange around the roast white and sweet potatoes, 
fairly small and peeled, and have ready some small red apples, 
cored. Roast the pork until two-thirds done, then place the 
apples, which cook very quickly, in the pan with the potatoes and 
finish the cooking. The apples may have the cavity where the core 
was removed stuffed with butter which has been rolled in granu- 
lated sugar and cinnamon. When the apples are tender the 
potatoes should be well browned and the pork should be done. 
It should be basted several times. The Epicure, Boston 

ROAST PORK WITH APPLE SAUCE 

Wipe the pork, sprinkle with salt, pepper and a little powdered 
sage, dredge with flour, place on a rack in a roasting-pan, after 
stuffing with the following stuffing: Chop 1 onion fine and cook 
until light brown and tender in a little dripping or butter. Make a 
stuffing of bread crumbs and crusts over which cold water is poured 
to moisten, then squeezed out and the onion added. Season with 
salt, pepper, sage, summer savory and th3Tne and a little minced 
parsley, add 3 tsp. of melted butter and bind together with 1 egg 
stirred thoroughly through the stuffing. Roast the pork until 
tender and the stuffing brown, basting frequently with the fat in 
the pan. Remove the pork and stuffing and, to the fat in the pan, 
add \yi cups of hot water and a little kitchen bouquet or caramel 
sauce. Season with salt and pepper and, when hot, thicken with 
a roux of flour and water, stirred smooth ; stir until thick and brown, 
strain through a wire sieve and serve with the pork and stuffing. 
Also serve with this, baked apple sauce made in a stone crock and 
baked tightly covered, which should give the sauce a beautiful 
red color. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

93 



THE MODERN CLUB 



TO BROIL VENISON STEAKS 

Have the gridiron hot ; broil and put in a hot dish ; rub over 
them butter, pepper, salt and a little melted currant jelly. 
If one does not wish to serve the jelly, simply garnish the dish 
with slices of lemon. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



MOCK VENISON 

Cut cold mutton into thin slices and heat in a brown sauce 
made according to the following proportions : 

2 tbsp. butter 1 tbsp. red-ciurant jelly 

2 tbsp. flour 1 cup water or stock 

1 tbsp. bottled meat sauce (whichever is pi ef erred) 

Brown the flour in the butter, add the water or stock slowly, 
and keep stirring. Then add the jelly and meat sauce and let the 
mixture boil up well. Contributed 

PAN-BROILING 

Remove from the steak or chop extra fat, and wipe with a 
damp cloth. Heat a frying-pan very hot without any fat. Put 
in the meat and cook 1 minute; turn and sear on the other side; 
then cook more slowly until done; 5 minutes if liked rare. Stand 
chops up on the edge to brown the fat. Keep the pan free from 
fat. Contributed 



MUTTON COOKED IN WATER (Drexel Institute) 

Cleanse, remove the pink skin and extra fat, and put into 
boiling salted water; 1 tbsp. salt to 4 qts. water. At the end of 
15 minutes' cooking in this temperature, it has become hardened 
on the outside, and the juices cannot escape. Push the kettle to 
the back of the stove, and let it cook until it is tender in a tem- 
perature about 180° F. If the water bubbles it is too hot. All 
kinds of meat may be cooked by the same rules, except those which 
have been salted. Contributed 

94 



LAMB 



SCALLOPED MUTTON 



Cut cold mutton into small pieces. Put a layer of bread 
crumbs on the bottom of a shallow baking-dish, then the mutton, 
and over that pour a sauce made in the following manner : 

1 tbsp. fat 1 cup liquid in which the mutton 

1 tbsp, flour (browned) was cooked 

Seasoning 

It may be seasoned with salt, pepper and onion juice and 
chopped parsley or 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce may be used. 
Cover with crumbs before baking. 

Cold roast beef may be used instead of mutton. The sauce for 
the beef may be prepared by using hot water and milk or water 
and stock. 

Mrs. Walter Wilhelm 



BROILED LAMB CUTLETS WITH STRING BEANS 

Wipe some lamb cutlets, season with salt and white pepper, 
rub over with a little soft butter and broil under a clear flame 
or, if in the country, pan-fry them in a very hot sheet-iron spider, 
which gives the same effect as broiling. Cook the desired quantity 
of string beans in salted water tmtil tender, and drain. Have a 
liberal quantity of butter in an enamel saucepan and toss the beans 
in this, seasoning with salt and pepper, and when they are very 
hot, garnish the platter of lamb with them. 

The Epicure, Boston 

LAMB STEW WITH RICE 

iy2 lbs. lamb or mutton 2 cups carrots 

Use lamb or mutton from shoulder, cut into small pieces. 
Cover with cold water and cook slowly without boiling for 4 to 
6 hours. Three-quarters of an hour before meal time add carrots, 
pared and cut into ^-inch pieces. When done thicken the gravy 
with 2 tbsp. flour. Serve on large platter with a border of boiled 
or steamed rice. 

Contributed 
95 



THE MODERN CLUB 



LAMB CHOPS WITH SAUCE 

4 to 6 chops Pinch of thyme 

1/2 tbsp. butter 2 ripe tomatoes " 

1 medium green pepper or 

1 medium dry onion 3 to 4 tbsp. canned tomatoes 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Fry the chops in their own fat. When done, take them in a 
separate dish, and add to the fat the butter and about >^ cup 
plain water — or broth if preferred — and bring to a boil. Then chop 
the green pepper, the onion and the tomatoes, and after seasoning 
to taste, also sifting in the thyme, add them to the boiling mixture. 
When this is nearly done, add the chops, and place the entire com- 
bination in a moderately hot oven for 10 to 15 minutes. 

Mrs. G. a. Van Lennep 



LAMB CHOPS A LA CASTELLANE 

Broil six thick slices of eggplant ^ of an inch thick. When 
tender, brush over with melted butter and arrange upon a platter. 
Upon each place a broiled lamb chop and pour around the sauce 
made as follows: 

Brown 3 tbsp. of butter, add Zyi tbsp. of flour and stir until 
well browned, then add, gradually, 1 cup of rich, brown stock. 
Cut into tiny cubes sufficient to make 3 tbsp. of raw, lean ham 
and cook this for 3 minutes in a little butter, moisten with 2 tbsp. 
of cider and add 2 tbsp. of finely shredded green pepper. Add 
this to the sauce and blend thoroughly before pouring around the 
chops. The Epicure, Boston 

MASHED POTATOES WITH MINCED MEAT 

1/2 lb. mutton or lamb meat 2 tbsp. butter 

1 qt. potatoes 1 cup broth, or plain water 

2 medium dry onions Salt and pepper to taste 

Mince the meat and fry in one-half portion of the butter 
with the finely cut onions. Season to taste. Then prepare the 
mashed potatoes and put in a suitable vessel with the fried meat 
in alternate layers, and after pouring over the broth, boil the whole 

96 



MEATS 

on a moderate fire for 15 to 20 minutes. Then add the remainder 
of the butter on the surface, and place the vessel in a hot oven for 
10 to 12 minutes. Mrs. G. A, Van Lennep 

DEVILED MUTTON 

Cut the cold mutton in rather thick slices, dip each in a 
"deviled" mixture of vinegar, French mustard, salt, pepper and 
a dash of sugar. Turn over the slices in the sauce several times; 
dip in a rather thick batter, and fry as you would fritters. Drain 
off the fat and serve hot. 

Mrs. Walter Wilhelm 

MINCE MEAT FRITTERS 

Yz lb. mutton or lamb 3 or 4 tbsp. butter 

3 medium dry onions 2 cups flour 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Make a stiff batter of the flour and lukewarm water, roll out 
very thin, and cut into 4-inch squares. Then fry well the minced 
meat with the finely chopped onions, seasoned with salt and 
pepper, in part of the butter. Place this, in tablespoonful quanti- 
ties, between the thin batter sheets, pressing down the edges and 
notching at regular intervals. When all are thus made ready, 
arrange in a suitable fiat pan, and after pouring over the remainder 
of the butter, melted, bake it in a moderately hot oven until the 
batter is well done. Serve hot. Mrs. G. A. Van Lennep 

BREADED MUTTON CUTLETS 

8 French chops, cut thin V2 tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. butter Vs tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. flour 1 cup cream 

V2 cup chopped ham 

Make a white sauce of the above ingredients ; when thoroughly 
cooked, add the finely chopped ham, mix thoroughly and set aside 
to cool. Broil the chops. Season each chop with salt and pepper 
and cover on both sides with a layer of the sauce. Allow them to 
stand on a buttered plate until firm, then dip in egg and crumbs 
and cook in deep fat until brown. Serve with Cuban or tomato 
sauce. 

97 



THE MODERN CLUB 



CUBAN SAUCE 

2 tbsp. ham (chopped) iVz cups stock 

V4 cup flour 1 cup tomato ketchup 

Vi cup butter V2 tsp. salt 

Cook ham and butter until the butter is well browned, add 
the flour and salt, the stock slowly, and then the ketchup. Cook 
10 minutes. Strain and serve with mutton cutlets. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



LAMB ROLL 

1/2 cup boiled rice Little onion, green pepper and sea- 

2 cups groimd lamb soning 

White of 1 egg 

Pack into covered mold and boil ^ hour. Serve on platter 
with brown gravy. Mrs. F. R. Savidge 



SWEETBREADS (Fried) 

Wash very carefully, and dry. Lard with narrow strips of 
fat salt pork, set closely together. Use for this purpose a larding- 
needle. Lay the sweetbreads in a hot frying-pan, which has been 
well buttered or greased, and cook to a fine brown, turning fre- 
quently until the pork is crisp. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



SWEDISH TIMBALES (Drexel Institute) 

3/4 cup flour 1 tsp. sugar 

V2 tsp. salt V2 cup milk 

1 egg 

Sift the dry ingredients. Add the milk gradually, then the 
beaten egg. Stir, but do not beat. Put the mixture into a cup. 
Heat the timbale-iron in fat which is hot enough to brown a cube 
of bread in 1 minute. The fat should be deep enough to cover the 
iron. When hot, dip the iron three-fourths into the batter and 
then into the hot fat. Cook until a delicate brown ; remove from 
the iron and drain on brown paper. Contributed 

98 



MEATS 



CALF'S LIVER (Fried) 



Slice the liver smoothly, and lay in salt and water to draw- 
out the blood. Lard each sHce, when you have wiped it dry, 
with slices of fat salt pork, drawn through at regular distances, 
and projecting slightly on each side. Lay in a frying-pan and fry 
brown. When done, take out the slices, arrange on a hot dish, 
and set aside to keep warm. Add to the gravy in the frying-pan 
a chopped onion, ]/2 cup of hot water, pepper, the juice of a lemon, 
and thicken with brown flour. Boil up well, run through a colander 
to remove the onion and the bits of crisped pork that may have 
been broken off in cooking, pour over the liver, and serve hot. 

Mrs. Herbert Painter 

TO COOK LIVER 

Fry in a saute pan some thin slices of breakfast bacon, and 
when done put them on a hot dish ; fry then thin slices of liver, in 
the same fat, which have previously been thrown into boiling 
water for only a moment, and then been sprinkled with flour. 
When well done on both sides, serve them and the bacon on the 
same dish, and garnish with slices of lemon. 

Mrs. Herbert Painter 

CANNED GREEN PEAS WITH MEAT 

V2 lb. lamb 3 or 4 tbsp. canned tomatoes 

2 medium dry onions 1 can peas 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut the meat into walnut-sized pieces, and fry for 20 minutes; 
then slice in the onions and put in the tomatoes, and continue 
frying 8 or 10 minutes longer. Then put in the contents of the 
can of green peas, season to taste and boil over a medium fire 
until done. Mrs. G. A. Van Lennep 



MEAT CROQUETTES 

1 lb. meat for hash 2 eggs 

3 medium onions Bread crumbs 

3 or 4 medium potatoes A little grated cheese 

Salt and pepper to taste 
99 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Boil the onions and potatoes in water; when done, pass them 
along with the meat through the grinding machine, put in a vessel 
and add the grated cheese, bread crumbs, pepper and salt. Break 
the eggs in a little water and add them, mixing well. Form into 
small round cakes, flour lightly on both sides and fry in butter or 
fat. Serve with salad. Equally good hot or cold. 

Mrs. G. a. Van Lennep 



VEAL CUTLETS 

A slice of veal from the leg. Wipe and remove the bone, skin 
and tough membranes. Cut into pieces for serving. Small pieces 
may be put together by using wooden toothpicks for skewers. 
Season the veal with salt and pepper. Roll in fine bread or cracker 
crumbs, dip in beaten egg, then in crumbs again. Melt 1 tbsp. 
of dripping or butter in a French pan, and brown the cutlets in 
the hot fat. When browned put the cutlets into a stewpan. 
While the cutlets are being prepared the bone and tough pieces 
may be cooking, at low temperature, covered with water. This 
water may be used for the sauce. 

SAUCE FOR CUTLETS 

1 tbsp. dripping 1 tsp. or more of Worcestershire 

2 tbsp. flour sauce 

1 pt. stock or water and stock 1 tbsp. chopped parsley 

Salt and pepper 

Prepare this as a brown sauce. Caramel or soy may be used 
to color it. Pour this sauce over the cutlets, and cook at a tempera- 
ture of 180° F. for 1 hour. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

VEAL LOAF, No. 1 

21/2 lbs. veal 2 eggs 

1/2 lb. pork 1 tsp. onion juice 

1 cup bread crumbs 1 tsp. salt 

Vz tsp. pepper 

Mrs. Brooke M. Anspach 
100 



I 



MEATS 



RED SAUCE FOR VEAL LOAF 

30 large tomatoes 1 qt. cider vinegar 

10 large sweet red peppers 1 cup sugar 

8 large onions V2 cup salt 



Cook together lyi hours. 



Mrs. Brooke M. Anspach 



VEAL LOAF, No. 2 

3 lbs. veal, chopped fine 1 tsp. thyme 

1 tbsp. salt 1 nutmeg 

1 tsp. pepper 6 soda crackers, rolled fine 

3 eggs 

Mix the ingredients well together, make into a loaf and 
sprinkle with flour. Bake 3 hours and baste with butter and water. 

Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 

VEAL LOAF, No. 3 

1 lb. veal, ground fine 1 beaten egg 

1/2 lb. salt pork, ground fine 1 tbsp. melted butter 

1 cup bread crumbs Salt, pepper, sage to taste 

1/2 cup top milk 

Make into a long loaf, put a piece of bacon on the bottom and 
top. Add 1 cup water and roast 1 hour. Delicious sliced cold. 

Mrs. L. K. Holder 

MOCK BIRDS 

Cut veal cutlet in squares. Stuff with poultry filling. Roll. 
Fasten with a toothpick or some such device. Serve with brown 
gravy. Mrs. Frank A, Craig 

HASH 

1 cup meat, chopped fine 2 tbsp. butter or beef fat 

2 cups hot mashed potatoes Salt and pepper 
Vs cup boiling water or more Onion juice 

Put the mixture in a French pan, in which yi tbsp. of beef 
dripping or butter has been heated. Spread smoothly. Cook over 
a moderate heat, and it will brown slowly, and not bum. Cook 

101 



THE MODERN CLUB 



about yz hour and do not stir the hash. Fold it like an omelet. 
The onion juice may be omitted and chopped parsley or capers 
used. Contributed 

Legation of the Kingdom 

OF THE 

Serbs, Croats and Slovenes 
Washington, D. C. 



2148 Wyoming Avenue, 
Washington, D. C. 

February 19, 1921 



My Dear Mrs. Essig: 

It is with much pleasure that I enclose the following recipe 
for a Serbian dish to be added to the others which comprise 
your Book of Cookery for the Modern Club. 

SERBIAN "JUVETCH" 

(How to Make a Tasty Luncheon Dish from Soup Meat and 
Left-over Vegetables) 

Shred coarsely pieces of soup meat just removed from bouillon. 
Place a layer in baking-dish with plenty of fat and small pieces 
of thinly sliced bacon and onions. To this add cooked sliced toma- 
toes and potatoes, rice, peas, and any other left-over vegetables. 
Add several tablespoons of cream, season with salt and pepper, 
bake in hot oven 10 minutes, and serve in dish. 

Mabel S. Grouitch (Madame Slavko Grouitch) 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig, Chairman Home Economics 
Modem Club of Philadelphia, Merion, Pa. 

ORIENTAL RECIPE 

PILAF, PLAIN (Luncheon Dish) 

5 cups stock 2 tbsp. butter 

2 cups rice Salt and pepper to taste 

Bring the broth to a boil first, then put the rice into it. Season 
to taste, and continue boiling until all the water is evaporated. 
This done, take the vessel off the fire and heat the butter well in 
a frying-pan; then pour over the boiled rice; cover with white 
muslin under the lid and place in hot oven for 15 to 20 minutes. 

Madame Mathilde R. Van Lennep 
102 



EGGS 



CROQUETTES 



Chop meat into small pieces, or very fine; add seasoning to 
taste — salt, pepper, cayenne, chopped parsley, or Worcestershire 
sauce; add a thick milk or cream sauce, and cool on a shallow 
plate; when cold shape into cones or oblong shapes and cover 
with crumbs, egg, and again with crumbs to cook in deep fat. 
The temperature of the fat is the same as for oysters. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

EGGS AU BEURRE NOIR 

Melt 1 tbsp. butter and slip in carefully 4 eggs, one at a time. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and cook until whites are firm, adding 
more butter if needed. Turn once during the cooking. 

Brown 2 tbsp. butter, add yi tbsp. vinegar and strain over 
eggs. Mrs. Mason Thomson 

OMELET 

2 eggs Vs tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. milk Pinch of red or black pepper 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light and creamy. Add the 
milk and seasoning. Beat the whites until stiff. Cut them into 
the yolks. Heat an omelet pan, and rub it all over with 1 tsp. 
butter, using a knife to do it. Turn in the omelet, spread it evenly 
on the pan. When the omelet is set, put it into the oven to dry 
slightly on the top for a few minutes. Fold it and turn it upon a 
heated dish. Serve immediately. Chopped parsley, cheese, meat 
or jelly may be placed in the center before it is folded or before 
the whites are cut in. An omelet must be cooked by moderate 
heat. Contributed 

RICE OMELET 

1 cup boiled rice, mashed 1 tbsp. flour 

2 tbsp. mUk Pinch of salt 

4 eggs, beaten separately 

Mix rice, milk, flour and pinch of salt. Then add yolks of 
eggs beaten light. Drop in large spoonfuls on buttered frying- 
pan. Fold over as is usual with omelets. 

Miss Alice L. Van Lennep 
103 



THE MODERN CLUB 



OX EYES 

Take slices 1 inch thick from good light bread, and cut round 
with a 3-inch cutter, cut a small ring \}4 inches and scoop out 
enough to take in an egg, brush with butter and brown in a hot 
oven. Break a fresh egg in each, season with salt and paprika, 
moisten with cream and put in a moderately heated oven until set. 

Contributed 

DROPPED EGGS 

Fill a pan with boiling water, and put it where it cannot reach 
boiling point again. Break each egg into a saucer and slip it into 
the water. Dip the water over the egg with a spoon. When the 
white is firm and a film has formed over the yolk, they are cooked. 
Take up with a skimmer, drain, trim off all the rough edges and 
serve on slices of toast. Season each egg with salt. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

EGG TIMBALES 

V/z cups milk 1 tsp. salt 

6 eggs Vi tsp. onion juice 

V4 tsp. pepper 1 tsp. chopped parsley 

Butter molds. Cook in pan with water in moderate oven 
until firm. Serve with cream sauce, celery sauce or cheese or 
mushrooms. Miss Marie A. Jones 

CHOCOLATE OMELET 

Dissolve 1 square of chocolate in a stewpan with a little water 
and leave it to cool. Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with a dessertspoon- 
ful of thick cream and add the chocolate to this, with the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Better results are obtained if 
the chocolate is first mixed with the whites, then added very 
gradually to the yolks. Melt in a rather large frying-pan \}i tbsp. 
of butter and when it is hot, pour in the omelet mixture, stirring 
with a spoon. Let it set over a slow fire, taking color on one side 
only. When ready to serve, roll it up and arrange on a large hot 
platter, pouring hot chocolate sauce around it. 

The Epicure, Boston 
104 



EGGS 

EGG BALLS 

Yolks of 3 hard-cooked eggs White pepper 

^^ tsp. salt 2 tsp. melted butter 

Press the eggs through a strainer ; add the seasoning and the 
butter and enough raw egg, either white or yolk, to form a paste. 
Shape in small balls, roll them in flour, and brown in hot butter. 

Contributed 



EGG CUTLETS 

Boil 6 eggs 20 minutes. Chop very fine. Thicken a little 
milk with flour. Make very stiff. Add this to the chopped eggs 
with chopped parsley, onion juice, salt and pepper. Mix and turn 
out to cool. When cold, form into croquettes, roll in egg and bread 
crumbs; fry in deep fat. Serve with creamed peas. 

Mrs. F. Dinwiddie Walker 

EGG AU GRATIN 

Break an egg into individual ramekin, pour over it a thick 
cream sauce and grate cheese on top. Brown in gas oven not over 
3 minutes. Miss Marie A. Jones 

CREAMED TOAST WITH EGG 

Make cream sauce as follows: 

1 tbsp. butter 2 cups milk 

1 tbsp. (small) flour Salt and pepper 

Pour this over 3 or 4 slices of toast and grate hard-boiled 
eggs over it. 

CREAMED EGG 

Pour the above cream sauce over several hard-boiled eggs, 
cut once lengthwise, garnish with parsley and serve. 

Miss Marie A. Jones 
105 



THE MODERN CLUB 



ROAST CHICKENS 

Having picked and drawn them, wash out well in two or 
three waters. Prepare a stuffing of bread crumbs, butter, pepper, 
salt, etc. Fill the bodies and crops of the chickens, which should 
be young and plump; sew them up, and roast an hour or more, in 
proportion to their size. Baste two or three times with butter and 
water, afterward with their own gravy. If laid flat within the 
dripping-pan, put in at the first a little hot water to prevent 
burning. 

Stew the giblets and necks in enough water to cover them, 
and, when you have removed the fowls to a hot dish, pour this 
into the drippings; boil up once; add the giblets, chopped fine; 
thicken with browned flour; boil again, and send to table in a 
gravy-boat. 

Serve with crabapple jelly. Contributed 

CHICKEN FRANCHARD 

You may have eaten chicken as cooked by Franchard at the 
Restaurant of the Hermitage on the edge of the Forest of Fontaine- 
bleau in France, but it can be done equally well at home, given a 
nice fat chicken and a large earthen casserole. The chicken is 
cut into pieces as for a fricassee, and put in the casserole with a 
large piece of butter, the size of a duck's egg, and let fry in this, 
turning frequently. The fresh herbs used can be bought in almost 
any good market — chervil, tarragon, thyme, and a clove of garlic. 
The herbs are chopped fine, say a teaspoonful each of parsley, 
thyme, and chervil and double the quantity of tarragon and one 
clove of garlic. These are sprinkled over the chicken, which is 
then seasoned with salt and pepper and then a cup of cut-up mush- 
rooms which have been marinated in vinegar for a few moments. 
Then a large spoonful of flour is sprinkled over the chicken and 
sifted first, that it may not lump, and enough good chicken stock 
to moisten it well is added and the cover put on the casserole. 
The chicken is cooked 50 minutes in this, with frequent turning 
that it may all cook equally, and at the end of this time the sauce 
should be golden brown and well reduced. Two cups of the stock 
should be ample and reduced about half. When serving, little 
triangles of fried bread are placed on the platter and the chicken 

106 



POULTRY 

is dished up on these and the sauce poured over. The garlic 
may be omitted or a Httle minced onion may be substituted, but 
it is really the garlic flavor with the herbs which gives character 
to the dish. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BOILED CHICKENS 

Clean, wash and stuff as for roasting. Baste a floured cloth 
around each, and put into a pot with enough boiling water to 
cover them well. The hot water cooks the skin at once, and pre- 
vents the escape of the juices. The broth will not be so rich as if 
the fowls are put on in cold water, but this is a proof that the meat 
will be more nutritious and better flavored. Stew very slowly, 
for the first half hour especially. Boil an hour or more, guiding 
yourself by size and toughness. 

Serve with egg or bread sauce. Contributed 

BROILED CHICKENS 

It is possible to render a tough fowl eatable by boiling or 
stewing it with care. And even when assured that your "broiler" 
is young, it is wise to make this doubly sure by laying it upon 
sticks extending from side to side of a dripping-pan full of boiling 
water. Set this in the oven, invert a tin pan over the chicken, 
and let it steam for half an hour. This process relaxes the muscles, 
and renders supple the joints, besides preserving the juices that 
would be lost in parboiling. The chicken should be split down the 
back, and wiped perfectly dry before it is steamed. Transfer from 
the vapor bath to a buttered gridiron, inside downward. Cover 
and broil until tender and brown, turning several times; from yi 
to y^ hour will be sufficient. Put into a hot chafing-dish and butter 
very well. Send to table smoking hot. Contributed 

PAN-BROILED CHICKEN AND GUINEA HEN 

Use the frying or broiling chicken. Split down the back. 
Rub with plenty of shortening and dust with flour and bake in a 
hot oven until tender. Baste with ^ cup of boiling water. When 
nearly cooked spread over the chicken thin slices of bacon. 

Prepare the guinea hen in the same manner as the pan- 
broiled chicken. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

107 



THE MODERNICLUB 



FRIED CHICKEN 

Clean, wash and cut to pieces spring chicken. Have ready in 
a frying-pan enough boiHng lard or dripping to cover them well. 
Dip each piece in beaten egg when you have salted it, then in 
cracker crumbs, and fry until brown. If the chicken is large, steam 
it before frying. When you have taken out the meat, throw into 
the hot fat a dozen sprigs of parsley, and let them remain a 
minute — just long enough to crisp, but not to dry them. Garnish 
the chicken by strewing these over it. 

Miss Mabel A. Leas 

PRESSED CHICKEN 

Cut up 1 chicken, cover well with water and boil until the 
meat will drop from the bones. After removing the chicken from 
the kettle there must be 1 pint of liquor. Separate the meat from 
the bones, taking care to remove the skin, gristle and little pieces 
of bone. Chop fine while warm, season with salt, pepper and a 
small piece of butter, then return to the kettle with the liquor. 
When hot, pack in a mold and set it aside to cool. 

Mrs. Aubrey J. Dando 

CHICKEN A LA KING, No. 1 

4 tbsp. butter V2 cup button mushrooms 

V2 green pepper 21/2 cups cooked chicken 

2 level tbsp. flour Salt, paprika 

1 pt. cream or rich milk Cayenne pepper if desired 

Melt butter in a chafing-dish or saucepan, but don't let it 
brown; add green pepper, minced fine, and cook 3 or 4 minutes 
without allowing it to brown; add flour and cook until frothy, then 
add cream or rich milk and stir until the sauce thickens. Set in 
a double boiler over hot water. Add mushrooms cut in half and 
cooked chicken cut in cubes about an inch in size. Season with 
salt, paprika, and a pinch of cayenne pepper if desired. 

Mrs. H. T. Siddons 

CHICKEN A LA KING, No. 2 

1 chicken (5 lbs.) 2 tbsp. flour 

2 green peppers y2 pt. fresh cream 

1/2 lb. mushrooms 1 tbsp. chopped parsley 

108 



POULTRY 

Boil chicken tender, cut meat into desired pieces, boil broth 
down to 1 qt. Boil peppers and mushrooms 10 minutes in broth. 
Thicken broth with flour, add first cream, then chopped parsley. 
Serve hot in chafing-dish. Contributed 

JELLIED CHICKEN 

Boil chicken thoroughly tender, chop fine, season very highly, 
chop and add parsley. Have 2 boiled eggs in mold, pack chicken 
in tightly, add 1 teacup of chicken juice in which has been soaked 
1 tbsp. of gelatin. Set to cool. Fine for luncheon or tea. 

Miss Alice L. Van Lennep 

CHICKEN JELLY 

1 chicken iy2 qts. water 

Cut chicken into small pieces, pound bones with hammer until 
they are crushed, put m I'jA qts. cold water. Allow to boil until 
chicken falls to shreds. Skim while it boils. Strain and put on 
ice to jell. Cut off and warm or eat cold as desired. 

Miss Mabel A. Leas 

CHICKEN STEWS 

Clean the chicken and cut into pieces. Cover in boiling water 
and cook at that temperature for 15 minutes. This hardens the 
albumen, and the juices are kept in. Push the kettle to the back 
of the range and cook at a temperature of about 180° F. Serve 
with sauce, Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE 

Make 2 cups of cream sauce and season with chopped parsley 
and onion juice. Stir 2 cups of chopped chicken into the sauce. 
When hot, add the beaten yolks of 4 eggs; cook 1 minute and set 
away to cool; when cool, stir in the whites, beaten stiff. Bake in 
a buttered dish about 20 minutes and serve immediately. Any 
meat may be substituted for chicken. 

Miss Mabel A. Leas 
109 



THE MODERN CLUB 



FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN 

1 chicken 1 tbsp. vinegar 

1 tbsp. flour 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

W2 pts. boiling water or stock Salt and pepper 

Yolk of 1 egg 

Saute a chicken (cut into pieces) with a little minced onion, 
in hot lard. When the pieces are brown, add flour, and let it 
cook 1 minute, stirring it constantly. Add then the boiling water 
or stock, vinegar, Worcestershire sauce, salt and pepper. 
When it is taken off the fire, strain the sauce, taking off any par- 
ticles of fat; mix in the yolk of an egg. Pour it over the chicken, 
and serve. Miss Dorothy Martin 

CHICKEN WITH ELBOW MACARONI 

Chicken 1 small onion 

V2 pkg. elbow macaroni 1 large sweet green pepper 

Pepper and salt Butter 

Boil macaroni in salt water. Put the breast, upper joints 
and drumsticks in a casserole. Add pepper and salt, onion chopped 
fine, and sweet green pepper chopped fine. Cover with the boiled 
macaroni. Put little pieces of butter on top and cook in an oven 
about 1 hour. 

Take neck, wings, back and the bones from drumsticks; 
make a chicken broth of the following ingredients; pour about 
}4 cup of this stock over the chicken and macaroni before putting 
the casserole in the oven. 

1 onion 2 cloves 

1 carrot 1 bay leaf 



This is enough for 6 people. 



Miss Dorothy Martin 



CHICKEN CURRY 

1 chicken Salt 

3 or 4 onions, according to size Yz cup grated cocoanut 

Fat salt pork Milk of 1 cocoanut with enough 

2 tbsp. flour water to make 1 pt. 
2 tsp. Crosse & Blackwell's curry Boiled rice 

powder Major Gray chutney 

110 



POULTRY 

Cut up onions and fry with fat salt pork, cut in small pieces. 
Put your chicken in that mixture and fry slowly, being careful 
not to burn. When the chicken is cooked take out the pieces and 
put in another kettle. Mix flour and curry powder, some salt, 
with milk from cocoanut. Pour this mixture in frying-pan of fat 
and onions, and boil, then strain, and pour over chicken and 
simmer (not boil). Take ^ cup grated cocoanut, pour a little 
boiling water on it, let it stand, then add to curry. Serve with 
boiled rice and Major Gray chutney. 

Mrs. Louis F. J. Hepburn 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN 

2 chickens A little cayenne 

2 sets of brains Celery salt 

1 can mushrooms Cloves 

2 hard-boiled eggs Allspice 

2 tbsp. butter 1 small onion, minced 

4 crackers Vi teacup cream 

Vz teacup lemon juice 

Chickens boiled and minced fine, brains parboiled in milk 
and all used, eggs beaten, crackers grated, butter melted, mush- 
rooms parboiled and chopped and seasoning added. All stirred 
together and cooked in porcelain vessel. Serve in patties, grated 
crumbs over and bro\vned. Mrs. L. H. Richards 

MEAT OR CHICKEN SOUFFLE 

1 cup ground meat 1 soupspoon butter 

1 cup milk 1 soupspoon fresh bread crumbs 

1 soupspoon flour 2 eggs 

Make a sauce of butter, flour and milk. Add bread crumbs. 
Cook a few minutes. Add to meat. Beat yolks. Add to mixture. 
Add seasoning to taste. Just before putting into buttered dish 
fold in stififly beaten whites. Bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Frank A. Craig 

CHICKEN LIVERS 

Clean livers, separate into 6 pieces and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Wrap each piece separately in a slice of bacon and 
fasten with small wooden skewer. Put in hot saucepan and cook 
until bacon is brown. Mrs. Mason Thomson 

111 



THE MODERN CLUB 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

V^ lb. chicken Vi tsp. white pepper 

y-i tsp. salt Onion juice 

Vi tsp. celery salt 1 tsp. parsley 

Cayenne 1 tsp. lemon jiuce 

Make 1 pt. of very thick cream as follows : 

1 pt. hot cream 1/2 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter V& tsp. white pepper 
4 tbsp. flour V2 tsp. celery salt 

Cayenne 

These ingredients should be cooked as a white sauce, using 
enough of the cream to make it of the right consistency. Chop 
the chicken very fine, and add sauce to make it as soft as can be 
handled. Cool as in rice croquettes, and shape and cook in the 
same way. 

Sometimes a beaten egg is added to the sauce before mixing 
it with the meat. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



ROAST DUCK 

Select a young, fat duck. The lower part of the legs and web- 
bing of the feet should be soft. Singe and draw the duck in the 
same manner as a chicken. Wipe it inside and out with a damp 
cloth. Weigh and fill with potato or bread stuffing. Truss in 
the same way as a chicken. Place on a rack in a baking-pan, cover 
the breast with slices of bacon, and put yi cup water and ^ tsp. 
salt in the pan. 

Bake in a hot oven, allowing 20 minutes for every pound and 
20 minutes over. Serve with giblet sauce. 

POTATO STUFFING 

4 cups hot mashed potato 2 tbsp. butter 

2 tsp. onion juice Yolks of 2 eggs 

V2 tsp. pepper V^ cup cream 

2 tsp. salt 1 tbsp. parsley 

Mix the onion juice, pepper, salt and butter with the potato. 
Add the cream to the beaten yolks and mix them with the potato. 
Add the parsley. 

112 



POULTRY 



GIBLET SAUCE 



Put the giblets (with the exception of the liver) in a sauce- 
pan and cover with cold water. Cook slowly until nearly tender, 
then add the liver. When tender, drain and chop fine. 

SAUCE 

2 tbsp. fat from baking pan 2 cups giblet stock 

4 tbsp. flour Vi tsp. salt 

Pepper 

Make a brown sauce, add the giblets, and when hot, serve 
with the duck. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

REDHEAD DUCK, ROASTED 

Stuff the birds as full as possible with celery tops, tie thin 
slices of fat salt pork over their breasts and roast them until they 
are quite tender and brown, 14 to 18 minutes sufficing if the oven 
be very hot. Remove the celery and serve on slices of fried bread 
with black currant jelly and orange salad. 

THE ORANGE SALAD, TREMONT STYLE 
Take large, luscious seedless oranges, peel as you would 
an apple, then slice with a sharp knife, removing all pith and white 
skin. Put a layer of them in the salad bowl with a slight sprinkling 
of powdered sugar and a few drops of orange curagao. Another 
layer of oranges, another of sugar and curagao, and so on until 
you have sufficient. Set on ice and serve very cold. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

STUFFING FOR GEESE AND DUCKS 

2 level cups mashed potato y-i level tsp. salt 

1 level cup soft bread crumbs y-i level tsp. pepper 

V2 cup butter 2 level tbsp. scraped onion pulp 

V2 level tsp. poultry seasoning 

Mix thoroughly. Contributed 

STUFFING FOR TURKEYS AND CHICKENS 

2 level cups soft, fine bread crumbs Va level tsp. pepper 

Vz to Va cup melted butter ^z level tsp. powdered thyme or 

1/3 level tsp. salt poultry seasoning 

113 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Mix all the ingredients together thoroughly. The bread 
should have been baked 24 hours. The quantity given is enough 
for 1 chicken. Double the quantities for a 10-lb. turkey. 

Contributed 

TO COOK CRANBERRIES 

Add one teacup of water to a quart of cranberries, and put 
them over the fire. After cooking 10 minutes, add 2 heaping cups 
of sugar, and cook about 10 minutes longer, stirring them often. 
Pour them into a bowl or mold, and when cold they can be removed 
as a jelly. The berries will seem very dry before the sugar is added, 
but if more water is used they will not form a jelly. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ROASTED GOOSE, APPLE STUFFING 

Parboil a large goose for 1 hour, then stuff with a sage stuflBng 
in which 1 cup of chopped, raw apple has been mixed, basting it 
frequently with 1 cup of hot water in which 2 tbsp. of melted butter 
has been put. Serve with cider apple sauce and gravy made in 
the pan. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ROAST TURKEY, CHICKEN, GOOSE OR DUCK 

Cut off the neck, inside the skin, on a line with the top of the 
wing bones. Wash and scrub inside and out and dry with a cloth. 
Fill with dressing. Run a trussing needle, threaded with white 
twine, through the legs pressed close against the body, lifted as 
high as possible; take a stitch on the further side and return 
to within an inch of the place where the needle entered, tie the 
twine in a knot. Turn the neck-skin over the end of the neck on 
the back and run the threaded needle through the wing over the 
skin turned over the back and through the second wing; return 
the needle to the first side Yz inch below each place of entrance 
and tie in a knot. To remove after cooking, cut the stitches on 
wing and leg and draw out by the knots on the other side. Spread 
thin slices of salt pork over the breast and set to cook in a hot 
oven. After 20 minutes reduce the heat; turn the fowl during 
this time to sear the whole outside. Cook from 2 to 3 hours. 
Cook at a temperature that will not burn or overcook the fat in 

114 



POULTRY 

the pan. Baste with the hot fat each 15 minutes; dredge with 
flour after basting. Tender, juicy roasts can not be had if the 
oven be too hot. Baste a goose with salted water rather than 
with fat. In cooking goose if there is an excessive accumulation 
of fat in the pan, pour it off when partially cooked. A goose, or 
any fowl of uncertain age, should be parboiled before setting to 
roast. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ROAST GOOSE 

Singe. Wash well. Add 1 tbsp. of baking soda to the 
water. Draw the goose and parboil for 30 minutes. Drain, 
rinse under cold water and pat dry. 

Fill with sage dressing and bake in a moderate oven from 
2>^ to 3 hours, or until tender. Baste every 20 minutes. The age 
and size will determine the time required to cook the goose. 

Turn the goose breast down while cooking, after the first 
30 minutes; this will keep the breast moist. Later turn on the 
back to brown the breast. 

SAGE DRESSING 

1 pt. sliced onions 1 bunch potherbs 

1 pt. diced celery, using the green leaves and stalks 

Put the onions, celery and potherbs through the meat-chopper, 
adding sufficient stale bread. Add : 

1 tbsp. powdered sage 1 tsp. pepper 

1 tbsp. salt 1 tsp. poultry seasoning 

Mix thoroughly, moisten with 1 cup of stock and then fill 
into the goose. Sew the opening with a stout string. 

Contributed 

ROAST PIGEONS 

Clean, wash and stuff as you would chickens. Lay them in 
rows, if roasted in the oven, with a little water in the pan to 
prevent scorching. Unless they are very fat, baste with butter 
until they are half done, afterwards with their own gravy. Thicken 
the gravy that drips from them, and boil up once; then pour into 
a gravy boat. The pigeons should lie close together in the dish. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
115 



THE MODERN CLUB 



TO COOK SQUABS 

Clean the birds as for stuffing, put 2 ounces of butter for each 
bird into a saucepan with a tight Hd; when boiling, put in birds, 
breasts down; first season them with salt and pepper, cover tightly 
and cook slowly 1 hour, turning twice. 

Mrs. Horatio C. Wood, Jr. 

SQUABS ON CANAPES 

Split squabs, season with salt and pepper, spread with soft 
butter rubbed until creamy and mixed with flour — 3 tbsp. of the 
latter to 4 of the former — and bake in a hot oven until well browned, 
basting every 4 minutes with 2 tbsp. butter melted in % cup of 
water. Chop 6 boiled chicken livers, season with salt, pepper 
and onion juice, moisten with melted butter, and add 1 tsp. 
chopped parsley. Spread mixture on canapes and arrange a squab 
on each one. The Epicure, Boston 

REED BIRDS 

Pick, singe, and draw the birds. Remove the head, tips of 
the wings and the feet ; then wipe the birds with a wet cloth. 

REED BIRDS COOKED IN CHAFING-DISH 

1/2 tsp. butter 6 reed birds 

Put the butter into a chafing-dish and, when hot, add the 
birds. Turn frequently and cook until brown. Serve on toast or 
canapes and garnish with cress or celery tips. 

BAKED REED BIRDS 

Place prepared reed birds closely together in a baking-pan. 
Bake in a hot oven for 10 or 15 minutes, or until brown. Baste 
with the drippings in the pan. 

REED BIRDS WITH BACON 

Wrap prepared reed birds in very thin slices of bacon. Fasten 
the bacon with small skewers. Bake in a hot oven for 15 minutes. 
Remove the bacon before serving. Contributed 

116 



GAME 



QUAILS BROILED 



Split them at the back. Broil, basting them often with butter, 
over a hot fire. As soon as the quails are done, add a little more 
butter, with pepper and salt, and place them for a moment into 
the oven to soak the butter. Serve them on thin slices of buttered 
toast, with a little currant jelly on top of each quail. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

"DRIPPINGS" 

By drippings is meant the fat from roasting, frying or boiling 
meat, fat trimmings, etc. Every bit of fat coming into the house 
should be saved and used. 

When more fat is needed the soft flank of beef or pork, which 
sells for about 10 cents a pound, may be used. Cut the fat into 
small pieces, removing any skin and bits of meat. Cover with cold 
salted water and let stand for 4 or 5 hours or over night. This 
improves keeping qualities and flavor. Soak again if there is time. 
Now melt the fat slowly in the oven or over boiling water and cook 
until the scraps are crisp but not brown. Strain into clean pails, 
cans or jars which can be covered. Keep in a cool place. Use like 
lard, Crisco, etc., which costs about 5 cents a pound more. When 
using in recipes calling for butter, add more salt and take a little 
less because butter contains salt and is one-eighth water. 

Strongly flavored fats from bacon, ham and sausage should 
be kept separate and used for hashes or warming over potatoes. 

Contributed 

TRYING OUT FAT 

A double boiler is the best utensil to use in trying out small 
portions of fat. There is no danger of burning the fat and the 
odor is much less noticeable than if it is heated in a dish set directly 
over the fire. 

CLARIFYING FAT 

Excepting where the purpose of clarifying fat is to remove 
flavors, a good method to follow is to pour boiling water over the 
fat, to boil thoroughly, and then to set it away to cool. The cold 
fat may be removed in a solid cake and any impurities clinging to 

117 



THE MODERN CLUB 



it may be scraped off, as they will be found at the bottom of the 
layer. By repeating this process two or three times a cake of clean, 
white fat may be obtained. 

A slight burned taste or similar objectionable flavors often can 
be removed from fat by means of potatoes. After melting the fat, 
put into it thick slices of raw potato ; heat gradually. When the 
fat ceases to bubble and the potatoes are brown, strain through a 
cloth placed in a wire strainer. 

SAVORY DRIPPINGS 

When rendering the drippings of fat meat, add a small onion 
(do not cut it), a few leaves of summer savory and th3nTie, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a little pepper. This is enough for a pint of 
fat. Keep the drippings covered and in a cool place. 

Contributed 



118 



VEGETABLES 

(They) brought . . . parched corn, and beans. — II Samuel xvii, 28. 
Sowthistle, dandelion, and lettuce are their vegetables, especially the last. — Cowper. 



VEGETABLES 



BOILED POTATOES 



Pare and cover with cold water, if they are not to be cooked 
immediately. Cook in boiling salted water. When tender, drain 
thoroughly. Shake gently and dry at the back of the stove with 
the saucepan uncovered, or with a cloth folded over the top to 
absorb the moisture. Sprinkle well with salt. 

Contributed 

MASHED POTATOES 

Mash in the saucepan in which they are cooked. Use a wire 
potato-masher or a silver fork. Beat until light and creamy. 
Add a little hot milk in which a small piece of butter has been 
melted, season with salt and beat again. Pour out lightly on a 
hot dish. Mashed turnips are prepared in the same manner 
without the milk. Contributed 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Bake in a hot oven from >^ 
to 1 hour. They should be broken so that the steam may escape. 
Serve uncovered. Contributed 

BAKED POTATO WITH CHEESE 

Remove the potato from the skin and sprinkle grated cheese 
over it, or mix the potato and cheese and return to the skins, 
cutting off the ends to brown the top. Put a small piece of butter 
on each top. Contributed 

POTATOES FOR GARNISHING 

2 cups hot potato y^ tsp. salt 

3 tbsp. butter Yolks of 3 eggs 

Press the potatoes through a vegetable press, add the softened 
butter, the salt and the yolks of the eggs, slightly beaten. Put 
the mixture into a pastry bag and press out in the desired shape 
on a buttered pan. Brown in the oven. Remove with a spatula 
or broad-bladed knife and use as a garnish for meat or fish. 

Contributed 
123 



THE MODERN CLUB 



POTATO CURLS 

Cut the potatoes with a potato curler. Parboil them in boiling 
salt water, then brown in hot butter, and season with salt and 
pepper. Contributed 

SAUTE POTATOES 

In making saute potatoes, olive oil is far better than butter, 
because it attains a higher degree of heat without burning, and 
the cold, sliced potatoes, well seasoned, sauted in this until well 
browned on both sides, have a delicious flavor. A little onion 
fried in the oil before the potatoes are put in will impart a slight 
flavor if this is desired, and onions and finely minced red pep- 
pers are also a favorite addition. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

POTATO DUMPLINGS 
(For 6 people) 

6 good-sized potatoes y^ eggshell of milk 

A pinch of salt 2 tbsp. fine bread crumbs fried in 

1 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. butter (do not brown). 

1 egg, beaten Mix well with hands. 

1 cup flour 

Boil potatoes with skins on, allow to cool, peel and mash 
through press. Make a long roll and cut about Xyi ins. thick. 
Have a deep pan of boiling salt water, drop dumplings into water 
and when they come to the top take out. Pour over dumplings 
yi cup of butter melted with bread crumbs (1 slice) browned in 
butter. Very good served with baked ham. 

Mrs. Amelia Albrecht 

SARATOGA CHIPS 

Wash and pare several potatoes, and cut them into very thin 
slices. Soak them in ice water until crisp, drain them, and dry 
between towels. Cook in smoking hot fat until a delicate brown. 
Sprinkle with salt while still warm. The potatoes should be re- 
heated in the oven before using. 

Contributed 
124 



VEGETABLES 



LYONNAISE POTATOES 



1 qt. cold boiled potatoes, cut into 3 tbsp. butter 

dice 1 chopped onion 

1 tsp. Colbum's poultry seasoning 

Fry the onion in the butter and when it turns yellow add the 
potatoes, salt and poultry seasoning. Stir with a fork, cook for 
2 minutes, or longer if you wish them brown. Serve on a hot dish 
with parsley. Contributed 

POTATOES AU GRATIN 

Plain boiled potatoes chopped very fine. Mix with a thick 
cream sauce. Season all with salt and pepper to taste. Put in 
shallow dish and cover thickly with grated cheese. Bake until 
golden brown. Contributed 

POTATO PUFF 

2 cups cold mashed potatoes, beaten 1 tbsp. melted butter 

well 1 cup milk 

2 eggs, beaten well Salt to taste 

Beat all well, put into a greased baking-dish, bake quickly 
to a light brown. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

SHOESTRING POTATOES 

Wash, peel and cut potatoes in ^-inch slices, and soak for 1 
hour in cold water. Remove, dry between towels, and cut each 
slice in the tiniest possible strips. Fry these in deep fat, remove 
when brown to drain on paper, and dust with salt and serve very 
hot. Contributed 

GRATED SWEET POTATO PUDDING 

4 medium-size potatoes 1 pt. milk 

1 cup sugar 1 tbsp. melted butter 

2 eggs Vanilla 

Grate the potatoes in the milk (so as not to turn potato dark). 
Beat eggs and sugar together until light, then add melted butter, 
and season with vanilla. Put in baking-dish and bake until 
thoroughly done. To be eaten either with liquid or hard sauce. 

Miss Mary W. Lowell 
125 



THE MODERN CLUB 



BAKED SWEET POTATOES AND APPLES 

Select large sweet potatoes (the red ones are better because 
of their size). Boil, skin and cut them to fit under the apples. 
Make a syrup of butter and sugar and pour over potatoes ; brown 
in oven. 

Pare, core and bake enough apples needed for sweet potatoes. 
Serve apples on top of pieces of sweet potato. 

Mrs. E. Pusey Passmore 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

2 cups hot, riced sweet potato Dash of pepper 

3 tbsp. butter 1 egg 

V2 tsp. salt Flour or crumbs 

Add to the sweet potato, the butter, salt, pepper and beaten 
egg. Shape in croquettes, roll in beaten egg, flour or crumbs, 
egg and crumbs again, and fry in deep fat until brown, draining 
on paper. Contributed 

SWEET POTATOES, VIRGINIA STYLE 

Sweet potatoes are boiled, cooled and their skins removed, 
then cut in rather thick slices and arranged in layers in a buttered 
baking-dish from which they are to be served. Salt, brown sugar, 
pepper and melted butter are used on each layer and a thick layer 
of sugar on top. They are baked in a hot oven until the sugar 
melts and candies into syrup. Contributed 

SWEET POTATO SHELLS 

Boil 6 even good-sized sweet potatoes and mash while hot; 
season well with salt and pepper and moisten with cream till they 
are like pastry; then line buttered tin patty pans and bake till 
firm; have ready some creamed peas; remove shells from pans 
and fill with peas. Cojsttributed 

TURNIPS SOUFFLl; 

2 cups mashed turnips Buttet , salt and pepper to taste 

1 gill cream Papiika 

126 



VEGETABLES 



To the mashed turnips, add the cream, butter, salt and pepper 
to taste, and beat until light. Put in a buttered baking-dish, dot 
with bits of butter and season with paprika and bake until hot, 
and serve in a baking-dish. Contributed 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE OR CAULIFLOWER 

Season more highly 2 cups left-over cooked cabbage or cauli- 
flower, mix with white sauce made as follows: 

iVi tbsp. butter Salt and pepper 

IV2 tbsp. flour 1 cup milk 

Put in buttered ramekins and sprinkle with buttered bread 
crumbs and bake until brown. 

NEW PEAS AND STRING BEANS IN CREAM 

1 cup string beans 1 cup thin cream 

2 cups green peas 2 oz. sweet butter 
1 tsp. sugar Salt 

A few lettuce leaves Pepper 

Cut fine string beans sufficient to make 1 cup, and cook, 
with 2 cups of green peas, in boiling water, to which a little salt, 
1 tsp. sugar and a few lettuce leaves have been added. Remove 
the lettuce leaves when the vegetables are tender, drain, and 
re-heat in the cream and butter, seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BUTTERED OYSTER PLANT 

Wash the salsify, or oyster plant, scrape, cut in 1-inch lengths 
and throw immediately in cold acidulated water to prevent dis- 
coloration. Cook in boiling water, liberally salted, until tender. 
Drain through a colander and put in a saucepan with some fresh 
butter and a little sweet cream; season with salt, pepper and a 
dash of nutmeg if the latter flavor is liked, and heat well before 
serving. The cream may be omitted. Celery may be cooked 
in the same fashion. Contributed 

STEWED CELERY 

1 bunch celery 1 pt. sauce 

127 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Wash and scrape the celery. Cut into 1-inch pieces. Keep 
under cold water until ready to cook. Put into boiling salted water, 
and when tender drain and serve with the sauce. 

SAUCE 

1 cup milk (hot) 2 tbsp. butter 

1 cup water in which celery was IV2 tbsp. flour 

cooked Salt and pepper 

MILK SAUCE 

2 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. flour 1 pt. milk (hot) 

i/g tsp. pepper 

Heat the butter until it bubbles ; add the flour and salt, and 
gradually the hot milk. If used for vegetables, add the pepper. 
If it lumps, cook until it thickens, then beat until it is smooth. 
It may be beaten off the stove. A thinner sauce may be made by 
adding more milk; a thicker sauce by using less milk; a richer 
sauce by using cream or white stock ; a brown sauce by browning 
the butter and flour. Contributed 

NEW LIMA BEANS, NORMANDE 

1 pt. new lima beans 1 tbsp. flour 
White stock Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 oz. butter A little sweet cream 

Soak lima beans in cold water for 2 hours, then cook in white 
stock gently until tender. Drain and keep hot. Melt butter 
allow it to cool and add flour and moisten with 1 gill of stock. Boil 
for 10 minutes, then strain and add the yolks of eggs and a little 
sweet cream. Stir the sauce briskly over the fire until slightly 
thickened, and pour over the beans. Contributed 

MACARONI 

12 sticks macaroni y-i cup stale bread crumbs with V2 

IV2 cups thin white sauce tbsp. butter 

1 cup grated cheese 

Break the macaroni into 2-inch pieces. Cook in boiling salted 
water about 20 minutes, or until soft. Pour into a colander and 

128 



VEGETABLES 



run cold water through it. Place in a buttered cooking-dish, and 
add the sauce with one-half the cheese in it. Put the crumbs into 
the melted butter, add the remaining cheese to them, and spread 
over the top. 

Second Method 

Put the macaroni into the baking-dish; add 1 tbsp. butter in 
small pieces, and ^ cup. grated cheese. Pour milk over it and 
season with salt and white pepper. Put >^ cup grated cheese over 
the top. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

SAVORY BANANA FRITTERS 

6 large ripe bananas 1 tbsp. milk 

Seasoned flour Nuts (chopped fine) 

Salt, pepper, paprika Butter 

1 egg Bread toasted or fried 

Peel bananas and cut each in halves, lengthwise, and dip 
lightly in seasoned flour, which is made by seasoning a little 
flour on a large plate with salt, pepper and paprika, tossing it well 
together. Beat egg and add milk, dip a piece of banana in this 
and then roll in finely chopped nuts, and fry in clarified butter to 
a golden brown. Dish up each slice on a neat oblong slice of fried 
or toasted bread, and serve hot. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BAKED EGGPLANT 

Pare eggplant. Cut in slices and soak in cold water 2 hours. 
Drain, cook in boiling salted water until soft. Again drain, mash, 
add — 

V4 cup butter 2 beaten eggs 

Vz cup stale bread crumbs Juice of onion — few drops 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Line molds with canned pimentoes, fill with eggplant, cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake 15 minutes. Remove from molds 
for serving. 

Mrs. Willoughby F. Richardson 
129 



THE MODERN CLUB 



ARTICHOKES (From book over 100 years old) 

Soak them in cold water, wash them well; put them into 
plenty of boiling water, with a handful of salt, and let them boil 
gently for 1^ or 2 hours; trim them and drain in a sieve; send up 
melted butter with them, which some put into small cups, one for 
each guest. Madame Mathilde Van Lennep 

ASPARAGUS (From book over 100 years old) 

Scrape the stalks until they are clean, throw them into pan 
of cold water, tie them up in bundles of about 25 each; cut off 
stalks at bottom all of one length, leaving enough to serve as a 
handle for the green part; put them into a stewpan of boiling 
water, with a handful of salt in it. Let it boil and skim it. When 
they are tender at the stalk, which will be in from 20 to 30 minutes, 
they are done enough. Watch the exact time of their becoming 
tender, take them up that instant. While the asparagus is boiling, 
toast a round of a quartern loaf about yi inch thick; brown it 
delicately on both sides. Dip it lightly in the liquor the asparagus 
was boiled in, and lay it in the middle of a dish; melt some butter, 
but do not put it over them. Serve butter in a boat. 

Madame Mathilde Van Lennep 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS 

12 ears grated corn 1 tsp. sugar 

4 eggs V^ cup flour 

1 tbsp. butter A little pepper 

"^h tsp. salt 1 tsp. baking powder 

Fry in hot fat. May be served alone; or with fried chicken 
and cream sauce, and is most delicious. 

Miss M. W. Lovell 

SCALLOPED CORNLETS 

1 can comlet 2 or 3 tbsp. butter 

% cup milk Salt and pepper 

2 cups bread crumbs 

Mix the cornlet and milk, season with salt and pepper, and 
put into a buttered baking-dish. One tbsp. of butter is cut in small 

130 



VEGETABLES 



pieces and placed in the dish ; the remaining butter is to be melted 
and the crumbs added to it for the top. Brown in a hot oven 20 or 
30 minutes. Cooked onion or cabbage which has been chopped 
may be used in the same manner. Contributed 

CORN OYSTERS 

Grate raw corn from cobs. To 1 cup of pulp add 1 egg well 
beaten and yi cup of flour. Season highly with salt and pepper. 
Drop by spoonful on a hot, well-greased griddle. 

Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

CORN PUDDING 

1 can com Pepper to taste 

2 eggs, well beaten ly-i tsp. melted butter 
1 tsp. salt 1 pt. scalded milk 

To the corn add eggs, salt, pepper, butter and milk. Turn 
in a buttered pudding-dish and bake in a hot oven until firm. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES AND CORN 

Bread criimbs Onion 

Tomatoes (peeled and sliced) Green peppers 

Com (canned or green) Salt 

Butter 

Butter a baking-dish and in it arrange alternate layers of 
soft bread crumbs, tomatoes and com. Season each layer with 
scraped onion and a light sprinkle of finely-chopped green peppers, 
salt, drops of butter, allowing 1 tsp. for each layer. Have top 
layer tomatoes. Cover with 1 cup of bread crumbs mixed with 
% cup of melted butter. Bake in a hot oven 35 minutes. Let 
crumbs brown last 5 minutes of baking. Serve in baking-dish. 

Miss Martha Austin McDowell 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH GREEN CORN 



6 green peppers 
12 ears sweet corn 


Salt, pepper 
3 tbsp*. butter 


3/4 cup milk 

1 tbsp. grated onion 


1 tsp. sugar 
Paprika 
Parsley 




131 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Cut thick slices from the ends of peppers; remove seeds and 
white portion; parboil 15 minutes in boiling salted water to which 
soda has been added. Drain. Score the kernels of com lengthwise, 
scrape out pulp. There should be 3 cups. Put pulp in saucepan, 
add milk and cook slowly over a low fire for 20 minutes, stirring 
often. Season with grated onion, salt, pepper, butter and sugar. 
Fill the pepper slices with the mixture. Dispose on hot serving- 
platter, sprinkle tops generously with paprika and garnish with 
sprigs of parsley. Miss Martha Austin McDowell 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

6 green peppers iy2 cups cream 

2 cups cooked veal or chicken Onion juice 

(chopped) Va tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter 1 cup bread crumbs 

3 tbsp. flour 1 tbsp. butter 

Salt and pepper 

Cut the tops from the peppers and keep them for lids. 
Remove the seeds. Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, onion 
juice, salt and cream. Add the veal and fill the peppers with the 
mixture. Cover with buttered crumbs. Place the peppers in a 
baking-pan and cover the bottom of the pan with boiling water. 
Bake in a moderate oven ]/2 hour. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FRIED GREEN PEPPERS 

Remove the stem end of the peppers, allowing 2 or 3 peppers 
for each person to be served. Remove the seeds and cut each in 8 
slices. Wash, drip in a towel and fry in olive oil, seasoning with 
salt and pepper to taste and cooking tightly covered until tender, 
adding a little hot water when first put in. Take up carefully 
and drain off the oil and serve in a hot dish. 

The Epicure, Boston 

ONIONS 

There is no better rhanner of cooking onions than as follows : 
Put them into salted boiling water, with a little milk added, and 
boil them until tender (no longer). Then place them in a baking- 

132 



VEGETABLES 

pan with a little pepper, salt and butter over the top of each, and 
a very little of the water in which they were boiled in the bottom 
of the pan. Brown them quickly in the oven, and serve very hot. 
They may be served alone in a vegetable dish, or as a garnish 
around beef, calf's heart, etc. Contributed 

ONION SOUFFLE 

6 large onions 1 cup rich white sauce 

3 eggs 

Cook onions in salted water until very tender, drain and press 
through a colander. To 1 cup of onion pulp add white sauce, 
season to taste. Separate eggs and to the lightly beaten yolks add 
the above mixture, stirring all the while. Then pour this into the 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs, pour into buttered dish, set in a pan 
of boiling hot water, and bake in not too hot an oven for about 
25 minutes, or until firm and a delicate brown. 

Mrs. Robert E. Kline, Boston 

STEWED ONIONS 

Peel under cold water. Cook in boiling water, changing water 
at the end of 5 minutes and again in 10 minutes. Then cook 
until tender. Drain off all the water. Serve with hot milk, butter, 
salt and pepper. The milk may be omitted. Sometimes a milk 
or cream sauce is used. Contributed 

BOILED ONIONS, BUTTER SAUCE 

Boil the onions in the usual fashion, adding >^ tsp. of sugar 
and a little salt to the water in which they are boiled. When 
tender, drain off the water, add 3 tbsp. of melted butter and 
thicken ever so slightly with a little flour and water or a roux of 
flour and butter, pour over the onions and serve. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ITALIAN FRIED ONIONS 

Take large Spanish onions and, with a very sharp knife, 
slice crosswise very thin, allowing at least 1 to each person to be 
served. Dredge with flour, salt and pepper and fry in a frying- 

133 



THE MODERNfCLUB 



basket in deep fat, drain on paper and serve very hot. These are 
also delicious with beefsteak and more easily digested than the 
onions fried in butter, as they are quite dry. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

EGGPLANT, ORIENTAL STYLE 

1 eggplant 2 onions 

1 cup canned tomatoes Salt and pepper 

Butter 

Remove the seeds and peel from eggplant, cut in small pieces 
and put in a saucepan with tomatoes, using the pulp, and onions 
cut fine and first cooked in a little butter until tender. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, add a lump of butter, and, if necessary, a very 
little water. However, the tomatoes and eggplant should furnish 
sufficient liquor. Cover tightly and simmer on the back of the 
range until the eggplant is tender, when it will be ready to serve. 

Miss Violette T. Haines 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Plunge them into boiling water to remove the skins. Drain 
and peel. Cut into small pieces and cook over moderate heat for 
at least 1 hour. Unless the quantity is very small, a long slow 
cooking improves the flavor. Just before removing from the stove, 
season with butter, salt and pepper. They may be thickened with 
bread or cracker crumbs, or sweetened with sugar. 

Contributed 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Remove the top of fresh tomatoes, also a little of the inside. 
Prepare buttered crumbs. Season with salt, pepper and powdered 
sage. Onion juice or other seasoning may be used in place of sage. 
Fill the cavities and cover the top with crumbs. Bake in a hot 
oven until the crumbs are a delicate brown. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

WHITE SAUCE FOR VEGETABLES 

1 tsp. butter White pepper 

1 tsp. flour Vs cup milk (heated) 

V^ tsp. salt Vi cup stock 

134 



VEGETABLES 



Heat the butter until melted and bubbling, add the flour 
mixed with the seasoning and stir until thoroughly blended ; add 
the hot liquid gradually, stirring each portion until well mixed 
and perfectly smooth. Remove from the fire as soon as the 
boiling point is again reached. Contributed 

BAKED BANANAS 

4 bananas W2 tbsp. melted butter 

Vi cup sugar (brown or white) 2 tbsp. boiling water 

Juice of 1 lemon 

Peel the bananas, cut into halves lengthwise, and lay them on 
an old platter. Mix the melted butter, sugar, water and lemon 
juice together. Pour half of the mixture over the bananas and 
put them into a slow oven. Bake 15 to 20 minutes, using remaining 
mixture for basting. Miss Alice L. Van Lennep 

CABBAGE AND CAULIFLOWER 

Cut a cabbage in quarters, and soak it in cold water for }4 
hour. Chop the leaves and cook in boiling water until tender — 
about 25 minutes. To avoid the odor the kettle must not be cov- 
ered while the cabbage is cooking. Cabbage may be served with 
vinegar, salt and pepper or with a milk sauce. 

Cauliflower is usually cooked whole, and in a large bag to keep 
its shape, and served with a cream or milk sauce. The best sauce 
is made with white stock. Contributed 

SPINACH 

Pick the spinach leaves from the stems, and wash the leaves 
several times. The leaves may be placed in a colander, and must 
be carefully washed to remove the sand and earth. Put the spinach 
in only a cup of boiHng salted water. If young and tender it will 
cook in about 10 minutes. Drain in a colander. Press it through 
the colander with a wooden potato-masher. Heat it in a pan which 
has had 1 tbsp. of butter melted in it, add salt and pepper. Cream 
may be used instead of butter. 

The color may be kept in green vegetables, as spinach, by 
pouring cold water through them after draining. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
135 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Here is our P. R. R. Private Car Porter, Fletcher's way of cooking 

spinach. Dictated by him for the Modem Club 

Book of Recipes 

First, to get all earth and grit out, wash well through several 
waters. Begin by spigot water running from the leaves out through 
the roots, in order to carry away the sand or soil, then cut off roots 
and continue to wash until you can see there is no sediment at the 
bottom of the pan. It is clean then. Cold water, of course, is used 
in washing. 

Now for the cooking. There is nearly enough water in the 
vegetable leaves to cook it, but a little may be added if necessary, 
and it is put in a covered pot where it will steam and cook for 
about 20 minutes, not over half an hour. Drain out the water 
and put in a colander. Mash it through the holes to take out all 
the woody substance. (Some people cut or chop it, but it is not 
so pleasant to eat with the short stems left in.) 

Finally it is put in a pan or bowl and seasoned with salt, 
pepper, plenty of butter and a little mite of cream (or no cream if 
desired). Some add a little ground mace or anything of the kind 
to the taste of the connoisseur. Mr. Joseph T. Richards 

RICE 
First Method 

1 cup rice 2 cups boiling water 

1 tsp. salt 

Put the rice, water and salt into a bowl; cover it and place 
the bowl in a steamer (one having holes in the bottom) over boiling 
water. Cook until the rice is soft. 

Second Method 

1 qt. boiling water 1 cup rice 

2 tsp. salt 

Put the water, rice and salt in the upper part of the double 
boiler. Place it over the lower kettle and steam 15 minutes. Pour 
off all the water, return to the boiler, and cook 25 minutes longer. 

Third Method 

3 qts. boiling water 2 tsp. salt 

1 cup rice 
J36 



VEGETABLES 



Add the rice gradually to the boiling water. Cover and cook 
20 minutes, or until the grains show that they are cooked. Press 
them on the side of the kettle to see if they are soft. Turn into a 
colander to drain. Allow it to dry for 5 minutes in the oven with 
the door open. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

STEAMED RICE 

1 cup rice 3 cups boiling water 

IV2 tsp. salt 

Wash rice by placing in a strainer and allowing the water 
from the faucet to run through until it is clean. Add rice to boiling 
water and boil for 5 minutes. Place stewpan, closely covered, 
in larger kettle of boiling water and steam for 50 minutes. 

Contributed 

LUNCHEON RICE 

1 cup rice Salt if necessary 

1 cup white sauce Dash of paprika 

1 cup grated cheese 1 egg 

Sliced bacon 

Wash rice and boil briskly in plenty of salted water till tender. 
Drain, being careful not to mash the grains of rice. Add white 
sauce, grated cheese, salt if necessary and a dash of paprika; last 
add well-beaten egg. Pour into a buttered dish, dot the top 
with squares of thinly sliced bacon and bake in a moderate 
oven till a delicate brown. 

Mrs. Robert E. Kline, Boston 

RICE FRITTERS 

1 cup boiled rice Pinch of salt 

1 tbsp. flour 1 egg 

1 tsp. baking powder 

Mix all ingredients together and make into little cakes. Fry 
in hot lard. 

DRESSING FOR RICE FRITTERS 

1 lb. brown sugar Butter size of a walnut 

Vz cup water 1 tsp. vinegar 

137 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Boil all ingredients together until thick, pour over fritters 
and serve. Mrs. Godfrey N. Degerberg 

RICE CASSEROLE 

1 cup rice, uncooked 1 tbsp. sugar 

3 cups water 1 tsp. salt 

1 cup tomatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

Vi green pepper 1 small onion 

Bake 1 hour in moderate oven. 

Mrs. John G. Pew 

SPANISH RICE 

1 can tomatoes 1 tbsp. sugar 

5 tbsp. rice 1 tbsp. butter 

1 onion, chopped fine Salt 

V2 green pepper, chopped fine Pepper 

Cook tomatoes, rice, onion and green pepper together- in 
double boiler 2 hours; yi hour before it is cooked add sugar, 
butter, salt and pepper. 

Mrs. George U. Rehfuss 

PEANUT BUTTER CHOPS 

V2 cup peanut butter Vz cup bread crumbs 

V2 cup hot rice 

Mix until rice is cool. Add 1 beaten egg and 1 tsp. salt. 
Shape into cakes and bake in oven 15 minutes. 

Mrs. Richard H. Blythe 

PILAF 

y-i lb. cooked rice 1 can tomatoes 

1 lb. sausage meat, cooked V4 lb. butter 

Salt to taste 

When rice is parboiled add tomatoes and cook until done; 
add butter, salt to taste; mix together, put in baking-dish, and 
brown in oven. Serve for breakfast. 

Mrs. Harold Lewis 
138 



VEGETABLES 



RICE CASSEROLE 



1 cup rice 1 can tomatoes 

1 cup water 2 peppers 

1 tsp. salt 1 onion 

Mix and bake in moderate oven 1 hour. 

Mrs. George U. Rehfuss 

RICE CROQUETTES 

1 pt. cooked rice 1 tsp. salt 

2 or 3 tbsp. milk rg tsp. white pepper 
1 egg Cayenne 

1 tbsp. butter 1 tbsp. chopped parsley 

Bread crumbs 

Warm the rice in a double boiler with enough of the milk to 
soften it. Add the beaten egg, butter and seasoning. Spread the 
mixture on a shallow plate to cool, then shape into rolls. Rolt in 
fine bread crumbs which have been seasoned with salt and pepper; 
dip in beaten egg and roll in crumbs again. Cook in smoking fat 
until brown. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

HOMINY CRESCENTS 

Vz cup hominy Vi tsp. paprika 

IV2 cups milk Nutmeg 

1/2 tsp. salt Yolks of 2 eggs 

Soak hominy in ^ cup of water 15 minutes; put on to cook 
in double boiler with milk; when done, add salt, paprika, a grating 
of nutmeg and egg yolks, spread in a shallow pan J/^ inch deep 
to cool; when cold, cut in crescents, crumb, egg and crumb and 
fry in deep fat. Contributed 

HOMINY WITH BACON 

Mold 2 cups of cooked hominy in a low dish of suitable size, 
first rinsing the dish with cold water. When ready to use turn it 
out on a baking dish that can be sent to the table. Cover the 
hominy with thin slices of bacon and cook in a very hot oven until 
the bacon is crisp. Pour off the superfluous fat, surround with a 
border of poached eggs, and serve at once. 

Mrs. George U. Rehfuss 
139 



THE MODERN CLUB 



APPLE FRITTERS 

4 apples (tart) 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Powdered sugar Cinnamon or nutmeg 

Batter 

Pare and core the apples. Cut into >^-inch slices across the 
apple, leaving the hole in the center. Spread on a plate and 
sprinkle with lemon juice, sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg. Let 
the above stand while preparing the batter. 

FRITTER BATTER 

1 cup flour 2 eggs 

y^ tsp. salt y^ cup milk 

1 tbsp. melted butter or olive oil 

Sift the dry ingredients. Beat the eggs separately. Add the 
milk to the yolks, and pour into the flour, making a smooth 
batter ; then add the oil or butter and beat well. Fold in the whites 
of the eggs. When the batter is used for meat or fish add 1 tbsp. 
lemon juice or vinegar; if for fruit, use 1 tsp. of sugar. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



LENTEN FRITTERS 

2 cups milk Vz tsp. salt 

V2 cup fine corn meal V4 cup sugar 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

Scald the milk over boiling water; stir vigorously while 
gradually sprinkling in a generous ^ cup of fine corn meal, sifted 
with salt and sugar; continue to stir until the mixture is smooth 
and thick, then cover and let cook 1 hour longer. Beat the yolks 
of eggs; add a little of the mush and mix thoroughly, then stir 
into the rest of the mush with such flavoring as is desired; turn 
into a shallow pan to make a sheet not more than )/2 inch thick. 
When cold cut into rings (a doughnut cutter may be used) ; dip 
the rings in flour and fry in deep fat ; drain on soft paper, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and serve at once. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
140 



VEGETABLES 



HOT SLAW 

Shred a head of cabbage fine and place in water to crisp. Now 
place in a saucepan — 

Vz cup vinegar V2 cup water 

4 tbsp. cornstarch 

Stir to dissolve the starch and bring to a boil, and then add — 

IV^ tsp. mustard 1 tsp. paprika 

1 tsp. salt 1 tbsp. sugar 

6 tbsp. oil 

Beat hard and then heat to the boiling point. Then drain 
the slaw well. Place in a bowl and pour over dressing. Serve hot. 

Mrs. George Dunbar Shewell 

COMPOSITION AND DIETETIC VALUE OF VEGETABLES 

A generous supply of vegetables and fruit in the dietary is a 
necessity. 

Vegetables and fruit furnish iron in larger proportions in com- 
parison with their food value than do most animal foods. 

Vary the kind of vegetables and fruit often, as the ash con- 
stituents change with each variety and all are needed. 

Potatoes contain calcium and phosphorus, a relatively high 
percentage of iron and a very high percentage of potassium. 

The custom of serving potatoes with meat is founded on 
physiological or healthful reasons. 

Potassium yields base-forming qualities that neutralize the 
acids formed from meat. One medium-sized potato will neutralize 
the acids of two average slices of roast beef. 

Rice is a substitute for the starch in potatoes but does not 
neutralize acid ; on the contrary, it is acid-forming. 

When substituting rice for potatoes, add also either celery, 
cabbage, milk, beans, apples or prunes, all of which contain 
potassium. 



HI 



SAUCES 

Right cosily cates, made both for stew and taste. 
But sauc'd with wine. — Haywood. 

Avoid curiosities, and provocation, let your chiefest sauce be a good stomach, 
which temperance will help to get you. — Penn. 



SAUCES 

PUDDING SAUCE 

1 cup sugar 1 egg 

V2 cup butter 1 wineglass wine 

1 tsp. flour 1 pt. boiling milk 

Mix together sugar, butter, flour, egg and wine. When ready- 
to serve add boiling milk. 

COLD SAUCE 

1 pt. whipped cream V2 cup powdered sugar 

1 tbsp. melted butter 

Beat together whipped cream, powdered sugar, melted butter 
and flavoring desired. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

VANILLA SAUCE 

2 tbsp. butter 1 cup boiling water 
1 tbsp. flour 14 cup sugar 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Mix the butter and flour, add the boiling water. After cooking 
a few minutes add the sugar. When the sugar is dissolved flavor 
with vanilla and serve. Contributed 

SAUCE FOR FROZEN PUDDING 

Yolks of 3 eggs V2 cup milk 

1 tbsp. sugar Vanilla to taste 

Whipped cream 

Beat eggs well, add milk, sugar and vanilla. Simmer slowly 
but do not allow to boil. When cooled, add whipped cream. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING 

1 tbsp. butter V2 cup sugar 

White of 1 egg 1 wineglass boiling water 

Beat the butter, add sugar; beat well. Add well-beaten white 
of egg, also boiling water. Put bowl in boiling water, stir until it 
thickens like cream and serve. 

Miss Irene C. Eisenbrey 
H7 



THE MODERN CLUB 



PLUM PUDDING SAUCE 

1 cup fine white sugar 1 egg 

V2 cup butter 1 wineglass wine 

Beat thoroughly together. Scald (not boil) in double boiler. 

Mrs. William H. Tenbrook 

ANOTHER PLUM PUDDING SAUCE 

4 whole eggs, beaten light, add 1 cup pulverized sugar 

V4 cup melted butter 

Mrs. William H. Tenbrook 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

1 lb. brown sugar 1 oz. butter 

2 oz. bitter chocolate, grated V4 pt. cream or rich milk 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Boil together until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold 
water. Miss Marie A. Jones 

CREAMY SAUCE 

Vz cup butter V4 cup cream or rich milk 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Beat butter to a cream, add sugar gradually, beating all the 
time. When light and creamy, gradually add flavoring, and then 
the cream. When all is beaten smooth, place in bowl in basin of 
hot water and stir until the sauce is smooth and creamy. 

Miss Marie A. Jones 

APPLE SAUCE 

Wash and quarter 6 summer apples and remove cores. Cover 
with hot water and cook slowly until apples are tender, but do 
not lose shape. Add }4 cup sugar just before removing from fire. 

Contributed 

RHUBARB SAUCE 

Wash and peel 8 large stalks of rhubarb. Cut into >^-inch 
pieces, and add almost enough cold water to cover. Boil gently 

148 



SAUCES 

until the pieces are tender but still whole. Add sugar to taste and 
set aside to cool. Part of this juice may be poured off to make a 
fruit drink and the remainder served with the sauce. 

Contributed 

HARD SAUCE, No. 1 

1 cup butter 1 cup pulverized sugar 

2 eggs 

Beat the butter to a cream. Add sugar gradually. Drop in 
1 egg, then the white of another egg. Beat hard for 25 minutes. 

Mrs. Penrose Robinson 

HARD SAUCE, No. 2 

V2 cup butter 1/2 tsp. lemon or vanilla 

1 cup powdered sugar or 

% tsp. nutmeg 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, beating until it is 
light and creamy. Add the flavoring and beat again. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM 

Vi cake chocolate 2 small cups sugar 

34 cup milk Yolk of 1 egg 

Mix chocolate with half of milk. Cook 10 minutes. Add 
sugar. Mix yolk beaten with rest of milk, add to rest and cook 10 
minutes. Mrs. E. Pusey Passmore 

LEMON SAUCE 

2 cups boiling water 3 tsp. cornstarch 
1 cup sugar 1 tbsp. butter 

Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon 

Mix the sugar and cornstarch thoroughly, then add the boiling 
water. Cook 8 or 10 minutes, stirring constantly. Add the lemon 
rind and juice, then the butter. Stir until the butter has melted, 
then serve at once. Contributed 

149 



THE MODERN CLUB 



PEACH OR APRICOT SAUCE 

1 tsp. cornstarch IV2 cups peach or apricot juice 

V2 cup sugar (heated) 

Lemon juice if needed 

Mix the cornstarch and sugar, add the heated fruit juice and 
cook 8 or 10 minutes. If not acid, add a small quantity of lemon 
juice. If too thick, add hot water. If not thick enough, cook a 
few minutes longer. Serve with peach or apricot pudding. 

Contributed 

CARAMEL SAUCE 

1 cup granulated sugar V2 cup hoiling water 

Melt the sugar in a French pan. Stir it until it is a light 
brown liquid. Pour boiling water into it and cook until the hard- 
ened sugar is melted. Serve hot with griddle cakes. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

1 cup sugar y-i cup butter 

2 cups ripe strawberries, crushed 

When butter and sugar are thoroughly creamed, add straw- 
berries. Mrs. Thomas S. Dando 

PLAIN SAUCE 

1 dry onion, medium size 1 lemon 

yz cup broth Salt and pepper to taste 

Take the remaining fat of any fried meat or fowl, or the drip- 
pings of broiled meat or fowl, and in it fry the finely chopped onion. 
Season to taste and after adding the broth, boil it until one-half 
of its former quantity remains. Squeeze the lemon in before 
serving. Mrs. G. A. Van Lennep 

CREAM SAUCE 

2 tbsp. butter 4 or 5 green onions 
1 tbsp. flour 1 cup milk 

1 small bunch parsley ' Salt and pepper to taste 

150 



SAUCES 

Chop fine the parsley and the green onions, and place into a 
suitable vessel with the milk, the butter and the flour. Season the 
whole to taste and boil until well cooked. If the mixture becomes 
very thick — before all the ingredients are fully cooked — add a 
little more milk to it. Mrs. G. A. Van Lennep 

TOMATO SAUCE, No. 1 

V2 can tomatoes 2 sprays parsley 

1 cup water 1 tbsp. chopped onion 

2 cloves 1 tbsp. butter 
2 allspice berries 2 tbsp. flour 

2 peppercorns V2 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. mixed herbs Vs tsp. pepper 

Put the tomatoes, water, spices, parsley and herbs into a 
granite saucepan, and cook until the tomatoes are soft. Fry the 
onion in the butter until light brown, add the flour, then the toma- 
toes gradually, and cook slowly until the sauce thickens. Add the 
salt, pepper and cayenne and strain. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

TOMATO SAUCE, No. 2 

4 qts. cut tomatoes V2 cup salt 

34 cup chopped red peppers 3^ pt. vinegar 

2Vi cups sugar 1 tsp. ground cloves 

IV2 cups chopped onions 1 tsp. ground cinnamon 

Boil all together slowly about 6 hours, except the vinegar, 
which is added 14. hour before taking from the fire. If the peppers 
are not hot, add cayenne pepper to taste. This sauce does not need 
to be in airtight jars. Mrs. L. F. J. Hepburn 

TOMATO SAUCE, No. 3 

1 cup broth 2 tbsp. butter 

3 or 4 ripe tomatoes 1 tbsp. flour 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut the tomatoes in the broth, season it to taste and boil well; 
after this is taken from fire, stir it for 5 to 10 minutes with the aid 
of a wooden spoon; then pass the whole through a metal sieve. 

151 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Again fry the flour in the butter and mix it with the strained 
tomatoes, add a Httle more broth and continue boiHng for 20 
minutes, or until it becomes fairly thick. 

Mrs. G. a. Van Lennep 

OYSTER COCKTAIL SAUCE 

6 tbsp. catsup 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 

6 tbsp. lemon juice V2 tbsp. grated horseradish 

6 tbsp. oyster juice 3 tbsp. vinegar 

Salt to taste 

Will serve 10 or 12 cocktails. at t^ o t-» 

Mrs. Thomas S. Dando 



COLD MEAT SAUCE AND GOOD SALAD DRESSING 

Bit of garlic V2 tsp. pepper 

1 green pepper, minced fine Pinch of thyme 

3 tbsp. finely minced parsley Juice and pulp of 1 lemon 

2 tbsp. finely minced onion Juice and pulp of Vz orange 
1/2 tsp. mustard V2 cup tarragon vinegar 

V2 tsp. paprika % cup salad oil 

1 tsp. powdered sugar 

Place in a Mason jar and shake the mixture until rich and 
creamy. Serve very cold. Contributed 

RANGELEY DRESSING 

Vi cup catsup V2 cup vinegar 

2 pimentos, chopped fine % cup salad oil 

2 onions, minced fine 1 tsp. sugar 

A bit of garlic 1 tsp. mustard 

Pulp of 1 lemon V2 tsp. paprika 

1 tsp. salt 

Place in a Mason jar and shake until creamy. 

Mrs. Joseph T. Richards 

TARTAR SAUCE 

y-i pt. mayonnaise dressing 1 tbsp. minced parsley 

1 tsp. mustard 1 tsp. chopped pickles 

1 tsp. minced capers A little onion juice 



Beat for a few minutes. 



Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 
152 



SAUCES 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

V2 cup butter 1 tsp. salt 

Yolks of 2 eggs ^ tsp. cayenne 

Juice of Yz lemon V2 cup boiling water 

Cream the butter, add the yolks one at a time, and beat well; 
then add the lemon juice, salt and pepper. A short time before 
serving add the hot water. Place the bowl over boiling water, 
and stir until the mixture is the consistency^ of custard. Serve 
at once. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



TARTARE SAUCE 

1 cup mayonnaise dressing 4 olives 

1 tbsp. chopped pickle 

Stone the olives and chop them fine. Add both the olives 
and pickles to the dressing, and beat thoroughly. If desired, 1 
tbsp. tarragon vinegar may be added. Serve with smelts, lobster 
cutlets or cold meats. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



SAUCE FOR FISH 

1 pt. hot water Vz tsp. salt 

V2 cup butter Lemon juice or vinegar 

2 tbsp. flour Cayenne 

Chopped parsley 

Prepare in the same manner as white sauce. Hard-cooked 
eggs may be chopped or sliced and added to the same. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



HOT SAUCE 

1 egg 2 tsp. mustard 

V2 pt. vinegar and water, mixed Butter size of egg 

equal parts 2 or 3 tbsp. sugar 

Beat the egg, then warm the butter, vinegar and water to the 
scalding point. To this add mustard, stirring all the time; now 
add sugar. Serve hot. Mrs. Joseph T. Richards 

153 



THE MODERN CLUB 



MINT SAUCE 

1 cup fresh mint (chopped) Vi cup sugar 

V2 cup vinegar 

Use only the leaves and tender tips of the mint. Dissolve the 
sugar in the vinegar and add the mixture to the mint. The sauce 
should stand 1 hour and should be heated over hot water just before 
serving. If the vinegar is very strong, more sugar may be added. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

SAUCE FOR CHICKEN 

1 tbsp. butter or clarified chicken 1 pt. liquor in which chicken was 

fat cooked 

2 tbsp. flour Salt and pepper 
Yolks of 2 eggs 1 tbsp. chopped parsley 

Prepare the sauce in the usual manner, and pour it over the 
well-beaten yolks of the eggs. Contributed 

CAPER SAUCE FOR BOILED MUTTON 

Vz cup butter V^ tsp. pepper 

2 tbsp. flour 1 pt. water in which mutton was 

y^ tsp. salt cooked 

Prepare in the same way as white sauce, and add 2 tbsp. of 
capers or more if desired. Contributed 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 

l^ cup butter Va tsp. salt 

Va saltspoon pepper 1 tbsp. chopped parsley 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

V2 cup butter 1 saltspoon salt 

Yolks of 2 eggs Vi saltspoon cayenne pepper 

Juice of V2 lemon V2 cup boiling water 

Contributed 
154 



SAUCES 



SAUCES 



The art of preparing savory gravies and sauces is more impor- 
tant in connection with the serving of the cheaper meats than in 
connection with the cooking of the more expensive. 

There are a few general principles underlying the making of 
all sauces or gravies, whether the liquid used is water, milk, stock, 
tomato juice, or some combination of these. For ordinary gravy 
2 level tablespoonfuls of flour or 2^ tablespoonfuls of cornstarch 
or arrowroot is sufficient to thicken a cupful of liquid. This is 
true excepting when the flour is browned. In this case about 
one-half tablespoonful more should be allowed, for browned flour 
does not thicken so well as unbrowned. The fat used may be 
butter or the drippings from the meat, the allowance being 2 
tablespoonfuls to a cup of liquid. 

The easiest way to mix the ingredients is to heat the fat, add 
the flour, and cook until the mixture ceases to bubble, and then to 
add the liquid. This is a quick method and by using it there is 
little danger of getting a lumpy gravy. Many persons, however, 
think it is not a wholesome method and prefer the old-fashioned 
one of thickening the gravy by means of flour mixed with a little 
cold water. The latter method is, of course, not practicable for 
brown gravies. 

Considering the large amount of discussion about the digesti- 
bility of fried food and of gravies made by heating flour in fat, 
a few words on the subject may not be out of order. It is difficult 
to see how heating the fat before adding the flour can be unwhole- 
some, unless the cook is unskilful enough to heat the fat so high 
that it begins to scorch. Overheated fat contains an acrid irri- 
tating substance called "acrolein," which may be readily considered 
unwholesome. It is without doubt the production of this body by 
overheating which has given fried food its bad name. 

The Flavor of Browned Flour. — The good flavor of 
browned flour is often overlooked. If flour is cooked in fat until 
it is a dark brown color a distinctive and very agreeable flavor 
is obtained. This flavor combines very well with that of currant 
jelly, and a little jelly added to a brown gravy is a great improve- 
ment. The flavor of this should not be combined with that of 
onions or other highly flavored vegetables. Contributed 

155 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 

/ could pick a little bit of pickled salmon, with a little sprig of fennel and a 
sprinkling of white pepper. — Dickens. 



PICKLES 

BORDEAUX SAUCE 

1 gal. chopped green tomatoes 1 oz. turmeric 

1 gal. cabbage 1 oz. ginger 

1 oz. black pepper 1 oz. celery seed 

34 lb. brown sugar V4 lb. mustard seed 

1 gill salt 1 gal. vinegar 

Mix spices together, add vinegar and pour this over the 
tomatoes and cabbage. Put in kettle and simmer gently for 25 
minutes. Put in glass jars. When cool put on tops. 

Mrs. John Wood, Jr. 

MUSTARD PICKLE 

3 qts. green tomatoes, coarsely cut 1 qt. small cucumbers 

3 green peppers 1 pt. string beans and cut celery 

3 red peppers 1 pt. lima beans 

1 qt. small onions 1 head cauliflower 

15oak all vegetables except peppers in brine over night — 
1 cup (large) salt to as much water as covers vegetables. Next 
boil in brine till tender. Boil peppers separately till tender. Drain 
all and mix together. Mrs. George R. Sullivan 

DRESSING 

Boil 2 qts. cider vinegar and 1 pt. water, add paste made of 
the following : 

6 tbsp. mustard 3 cups brown sugar 

1 tbsp. turmeric 1 cup flour 

Mix all with a little warm water and boil to a custard. Pour 
over vegetables and cook about 2 or 3 minutes, then put in jars. 

Mrs. George R. Sullivan 

INDIAN RELISH 



V^ peck green tomatoes 






1 lb. granulated sugar 


1 large head cabbage 






Vi pt. horseradish 


6 peppers (3 red, 3 green) 






1 oz. mustard 


8 large onions 






1 oz. celery seed 


V2 cup salt (vegetables hot- 


-stand 




1 tsp. black pepper 


5 hours) 






1/2 oz. turmeric 




2 qts. 


vinegar 




161 





THE MODERN CLUB 



Boil yi hour. All must be cut very fine. 

Miss Irene C. Eisenbrey 

BEET RELISH 

1 qt. boiled beets, chopped fine 1 tbsp. salt 

1 pt. raw cabbage, chopped fine 1 tsp. black pepper 

1 pt. raw celery, chopped fine y^ tsp. red pepper 

2 cups sugar 1 cup grated horseradish 

Cover with vinegar (cold) and keep airtight. 

Mrs. William E. Danner 



CORN CHOWDER 

1 doz. ears corn cut off 1 head cabbage 

6 sweet peppers (3 red, 3 green) 2 stalks celery 

6 onions 

Chop this fine, add — 

1 qt. vinegar Vz cup salt 

Little celery salt 

Boil 15 minutes. Take 

1 qt. vinegar 2 tbsp. mustard 

V2 cup sugar 1 tsp. turmeric powder 

y-i cup flour 

Add to first part and boil 15 minutes more. Seal hot. 

Mrs. F. R. Savidge 



CUCUMBER RELISH 

1 qt. cucumbers, sliced fine (do not 1 onion, sliced fine 

pare them) 1 sweet green peppei, chopped fine 

Sprinkle a small handful of salt in them and let stand 3 hours. 
Drain well and add — 

1 cup brown sugar 1 tsp. mustard seed 

1 very scant tsp. turmeric powder 

Use vinegar enough to cover. Heat all together and cook 15 
minutes. Seal while hot. Mrs. L. F. J. Hepburn 

162 



PICKLES 



CUCUMBER PICKLES 



1 gal. cider vinegar (if sharp, dilute y^ cup Coleman's mustard 

with water) 1 cup horseradish (grated or put 
1 cup salt through the meat-grinder) 

1 cup sugar 15 cents worth of saccharine 

This quantity of liquid will cover 100 pickles. Wash pickles 
and pour boiling water over them and let stand over night. Then 
put them in a large crock and add yi doz. hot peppers (the small 
red ones) and 1 qt. of small silver-skinned onions, peeled, then add 
liquid. Cover the crock with heavy lid and let stand 2 months 
before using. Mrs. F. R. Savidge 

FRENCH PICKLE 

1/2 pk. green tomatoes 6 green peppers 

6 onions 1 large head cabbage 

Chop all together. Add — 

y^, oz. grotmd mace V2 oz. allspice 

yz oz. cloves 1 tbsp. salt 

Put all in a kettle and cover with vinegar. Boil slowly for 
2 hours. Mrs. L. H. Richards 

SPANISH PICKLE 

14 pk. green tomatoes % qt. celery 

Vi pk. ripe tomatoes 2 tsp. each of allspice, cloves, cin- 

6 green peppers namon and black pepper 

6 large onions 1 lb. sugar 

3V2 cups vinegar 

Chop the vegetables and salt over night, in the morning drain, 
add the vinegar and other ingredients and cook all together until 
celery is tender (about 1 hour), then add a little turmeric powder, 
and bottle. Mrs. L. F. J. Hepburn 

CHILI SAUCE, No. 1 

1 doz. tomatoes 1 cup sugar 

1 cup vinegar 2 onions, chopped fine 

2 tbsp. salt 2 green peppers 

Cook until thick. 

Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 
163 



THE MODERN CLUB 



CHILI SAUCE, No. 2 

18 large ripe tomatoes 10 tbsp. brown sugar 

6 green or red peppers 1 or more tbsp. salt 

6 onions or apples 4 cups strong vinegar 

If spices are desired, season to taste. Boil. 

Mrs. a. a. O'Daniel 



CHILI SAUCE, No. 3 

25 large tomatoes 1 tbsp. mustard 

5 onions 2 tbsp. celery seed 

2 green peppers 3 cups vinegar 

2 tbsp. each of cloves, allspice, cin- lYz lbs. brown sugar 

namon, tied in a bag Salt to taste 

Scald and chop tomatoes. Chop onions and peppers sepa- 
rately. Boil l}4 hours. Mrs. Penrose Robinson 



TOMATO SAUCE 

36 ripe tomatoes 2 tsp. mixed spices 

1 cup sugar 6 cloves of garlic or more, cut in 
4 onions fine slices 

2 tsp. mace 4 tbsp. salt 

1 qt. vinegar, or more if needed 

Chop all very fine and boil slowly for 4 hours. This should 
make 4 quarts and 1 pint. Helen M. Wright 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 

1 pk. green tomatoes 1 pt. vinegar 

1 lb. seeded raisins, chopped 3 pts. sugar 

1 lb. figs, chopped 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 tsp. ginger 

Slice tomatoes thin, cover over night in brine (1 cup of salt 
and 4 quarts of water). Drain and rinse. Put on vinegar, sugar 
and spices. When they boil put in the tomatoes, raisins and figs. 
Simmer for 1 hour. Drain. After which boil down the syrup until 
thick. Then add the rest to heat and place in small jars. 

Mrs. Charles D. Hodge 
164 



PICKLES 

TOMATO KETCHUP 

12 ripe tomatoes 2 tbsp. ginger 

2 large onions 1 tbsp. cinnamon 

4 green peppers 1 tbsp. mustard 

2 tbsp. salt 1 nutmeg (grated) 

4 tbsp. brown sugar 1 qt. vinegar 

Peel the tomatoes and onions. Chop the onions and peppers 
fine. Boil all the ingredients together for 3 hours, or until soft and 
broken. Stir frequently. Strain, heat again and bottle and seal 
while hot. Contributed 



SfflRLEY SAUCE 

2 doz. large ripe tomatoes 4 cups vinegar 

2 onions 3 tbsp. sugar 

8 red peppers 1 tbsp. salt 

Chop tomatoes, onions and peppers very fine. Add vinegar, 
sugar and salt. Boil for 3 hours. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 

Cut in very thin slices 1 pk. green tomatoes, 2 doz. large 
onions; mix with them >^ pt. salt and let stand 24 hours. Squeeze 
dry and add — 

1 oz. allspice 2 oz, white mustard seed 

1 oz. ginger 2 oz. groimd mustard seed 

1 oz. turmeric 2 lbs. sugar 

Cover with strong vinegar and let boil 20 minutes (spices 
ground and put in muslin bag). Two tbsp. equal 1 oz. 

Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 

GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT 

1 pk. green tomatoes Vz tsp. cinnamon 

4 lbs. sugar Vz tsp. ground nutmeg 

1 lb. seeded raisins 2 tbsp. vinegar 

1 lb. currants 2 oranges 

Vi tsp. cloves Juice of 1 lemon 

165 



THE MODERNfCLUB 



Wash, pick over and chop the green tomatoes fine, place in 
colander and pour boiling water over 3 times, drain well each 
time. Place in preserving-kettle, add sugar, seeded raisins, 
currants, cloves, cinnamon, ground nutmeg. Bring to boiling 
point, cook till tender, add vinegar, oranges, juice and rind chopped 
fine, juice of lemon. Cook up once. Seal hot. 

Mrs. F. R. Savidge 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 

1 pk. green tomatoes 8 onions, sliced thin 

Put in water with 1 cup of salt and let stand yi hour. Then 
drain and shop. 

3 pts. vinegar Vz lb. mustard seed 

2 lbs. sugar 4 green peppers, chopped 

Put in bag: 

2 tsp. ground allspice 2 tsp. ground cinnamon 

2 tsp. ground ginger 2 tsp. groimd cloves 

Boil all together 30 minutes. Put in jars hot and seal. 

Mrs. Herbert Fox 

MUSTARD PICKLE 

2 qts. small onions 2 qts. small green tomatoes 

2 qts. small cucumbers 2 small or 1 large cauliflower 

Salt cucumbers and green tomatoes over night. Cook cauli- 
flower and onions separately in salted water until tender, then 
drain. 

Dressing: . 

1 gal. vinegar 1 cup flour 

2 lbs. brown sugar V^ lb. ground yellow mustard 

1 tbsp. turmeric 

Add brown sugar to vinegar — if too strong, dilute. Stir in a 
separate dish the flour, mustard and turmeric. Stir smooth with 
some of the cold vinegar. Add the pickles to the vinegar, and when 
it comes to a boil, stir in the mixture and let it boil up good. 

Mrs. F. Dinwiddie Walker 
166 



PICKLES 



SPICED PEACHES 



1 pt. vinegar 3 lbs. granulated sugar 

7 lbs. pared fruit V2 oz. whole cloves 

V^ oz. stick cinnamon 

Tie cloves and cinnamon in bags; boil sugar, vinegar and 
spice for a few minutes ; pour over fruit ; let stand until next day. 
Pour off all juice and spice bags; let come to a boil; pour again 
over peaches. The third day cook peaches and juice until peaches 
are tender; if necessary, take peaches out of the juice and allow 
that to boil longer. Put in jars or crocks and serve with meats. 

Mrs. William E. Hetzell 

SWEET PICKLE SOUR CHERRIES 

Stone cherries, put in stone crock, cover with vinegar, let 
stand 24 hours. Drain. Have equal weight of sugar and cherries, 
arrange in layers. Stir for 9 daj'-s. Put in jars with rubbers. No 
cooking. Use wooden spoon. Keep well covered while making 
to avoid flies. Mrs. F. R. Savidge 



167 



SALADS AND DRESSINGS 

They haue also a Sellet of haerbes and a sawcer of vineger set on the Table. 
Purchas, Pilgrimage. 



SALADS 

SALAD COMBINATIONS 

Mrs. p. Brooke Bland 

AIGLON. (Bowl.) Lettuce in chiffondale, tomatoes, French 

string beans, and truffles in julienne, light cream mayonnaise 

with anchovy sauce. 
ALBERT. Romaine escarole and chicory cut in half lengths, 

fine herbs, grilled bacon. 
ALBERT 1. Heart of endive, alternate slice of alligator pear 

and orange, thin slices of truffles. 
ALBERTA. Slices of pineapple, hearts of cream cheese, red and 

green peppers, paprika. 
ALBERTINE. Heart of romaine, alligator pear, oranges, grapes 

(pitted and skinned). 
ALEXANDRA. Heart of romaine, julienne of celery, grape-fruit 

in slices, red peppers, chopped nuts, mayonnaise. 
ALICE. Heart of romaine, slices of grape-fruit and orange, 

chopped green peppers and walnuts, French dressing. 
ALMA. Heart of romaine, grape-fruit, orange and alligator pear, 

julienne of pimentos. 
AMELIA. Heart of endive, slices of apple, Russian dressing. 
AMERICAINE. (Bowl.) Chicory, potatoes, tomatoes, celery, 

fine herbs, French dressing. 
ANNA. Heart of lettuce, sliced tomatoes, celery and apples in 

julienne. 
APPLE. Apple, orange, chestnut, celery, lemon juice, sugar. 
ASPARAGUS. 1 can, yi cup cheese; mix; 1 cup cream. 
BASTO. (Bowl.) Escarole celery, apples and green peppers, 

in julienne in vingrette. 
BEAN. 2 cups lima beans, 1 cup peanuts, celery salt. 
BEATRICE. Heart of lettuce, string beans in center, sliced beets 

en dordure, French dressing. 
BEET. Cut out centers; mix with chopped celer}^ nuts, salt, 

lemon juice, dressing. Refill. 
BELVEDERE. (Bowl.) Chicory escarole, sliced apples and 

beets, mayonnaise with chili sauce. 
BONTON. Heart of lettuce, asparagus tips, sliced tomatoes, 

French dressing. 

173 



THE MODERN CLUB 



CABBAGE. Shredded cabbage, walnut pieces, salt, 1 sweet 

pepper. 
CARDOM ROUGE. Heart of lettuce, celery knobs in slices, 

border of diced beets. 
CAROLINA. Heart of endive, julienne of apples, French string 

beans, light mayonnaise. 
CATRICE. Heart of lettuce, alternate sections of orange and 

tomato. 
CELERY. Equal parts celery hearts, apples, walnuts, lemon 

juice, cream. 
CHATELAINE. Romaine and water-cress, asparagus tips and 

beets. 
CHERRY. 2 cups red cherries, exchange pits for cracked hazel 

nuts. Serve in cups made from orange skins. 
COMTESSA. (Bowl.) Chicory and romaine, artichokes, cu- 
cumbers, tomatoes in quarters. 
CRANBERRY. Cut jelly into cubes; sprinkle with chopped 

pecans. 
CREOLE. Heart of lettuce, Y^ tomato, timbale of rice in center, 

decorate with fancy cut green peppers, Russian dressing. 
CUCUMBER. Cut up cucumbers, tomatoes, celery, nuts and 

green pepper. 
DATE. Dates, apple and pecan nuts, mayonnaise. 
DEJANIRE. Heart of lettuce, pineapple, orange and tomatoes 

in dice, red dressing. 
DERNIDOFF. Leaf of lettuce, slice of pineapple, apples, celery 

and endive in julienne, truffles in dices. 
DIPLOMATE. Heart of lettuce, pineapple, apples and celery 

in julienne, chopped walnuts. 
DUCHESSE. Leaves of lettuce, asparagus tips, slices of apple, 

celery in julienne, finely chopped truffles. 
EVA. Heart of romaine, sliced artichoke bottoms, asparagus 

tips, chopped truffles. 
EXCELSIOR. Apples scooped out filled with chopped celery and 

nuts, serve in slice of pineapple, mayonnaise, with paprika. 
FAVORITA. Lettuce, slices of aUigator pear, small diced celery, 

pimentos, ripe olives. 
FIG. Equal parts figs, dates, nuts, pineapple, lemon juice, sugar, 

whipped cream. 

174 



SALADS 

FLORIDA. Shell of banana, celery in julienne, bananas in dice, 

slice of grape-fruit, mayonnaise with cream and paprika. 
FROU FROU. (Bowl.) Chicory escarole, celery, beets, tnifHes, 

and white of eggs all in julienne chervil. 
GERTRUDE. Heart of endive, water-cress, julienne of mush- 
rooms, red dressing. 
GOUMAND. Heart of lettuce, orange, apple and pears. 
GRAPE. 2 cups white grapes, skins and seeds removed; 1 cup 

pecans. 
GRAPE-FRUIT. Remove pulp with sharp knife from oranges 

and grape-fruit. 
GUILLAUME. (Bowl.) Water-cress, potatoes and artichokes 

in dice, slices of hard-boiled eggs, radishes, French dressing 

with paprika. 
GULCISE. Heart of romaine, asparagus tips, celery, mushroom 

truffles in julienne. 
GWENDOLINE. (Bowl.) Leaves of chicory and lettuce, celery 

in julienne, apples, red and green peppers, mayonnaise 

thinned with tarragon vinegar. 
HERMON SEMN. Half a grape-fruit scooped out, line with 

lettuce, pieces of orange and grape-fruit, artichoke bottom, 

cut in 8 pieces. Decorate with star of red pepper, truffles. 
HORTENSE. Heart of romaine, julienne of celery, apples and 

carrots, French dressing. 
IMPERIAL. Heart of romaine, asparagus tips, filet of anchovies, 

truffles in julienne. 
JAPONAISE. Heart of romaine, slices oranges, red peppers, 

light cream mayonnaise. 
JOCKEY CLUB. Heart of romaine, celery knobs, truffles and 

artichoke bottoms in julienne. 
JOSEPHINE. (Bowl.) Lettuce, slices of beets, potatoes and 

celery knobs. 
JULIENNE. (Bowl.) Chicory escarole, carrots, celery knobs, 

haricots verts, green peas, all mixed with French dressing. 

Serve mayonnaise separate. 
JULIETTE. Leaves of lettuce, French string beans, celery in 

julienne, celery knobs, artichokes, truffles, 
KUROKI. Heart of romaine, oranges and grape-fruit and apples. 

Decorate with red peppers. 

175 



THE MODERN CLUB 



LILY. Hollow out yi lettuce, small|balls of cream cheese, red Bar 
le Due jelly, cream dressing. 

LORENZO. (Bowl.) Lettuce and water-cress, pears in quarters, 
chopped English walnuts. 

LORETTE. Fetticus, sHced beets, sliced celery knobs. 

LORRAINE. Chopped pears and beets. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

LOUISE. Heart of lettuce scooped out, celery and apples 
chopped, 4 hothouse grapes, cherry in center. 

MARGUERITE. (Bowl.) Chicory with endive, radiating from 
center, chopped yolk of eggs. 

MARIE. (Bowl.) Lettuce, asparagus from center in julienne of 
celery, pickled walnuts. 

MARIE JOSE. Heart of lettuce, asparagus tips, French string 
beans, French dressing. 

MARQUISE. Tomatoes scooped out filled with pearl onions, 
and small diced celery on lettuce leaves, red dressing. 

MATHILDE. Romaine, sliced alligator pear, apples and cucum- 
bers, chopped walnuts. 

MELBA. (Bowl.) Endive, finely cut apples, French dressing 
with currant jelly. 

MERCEDES. Heart of lettuce, celery, beets and truffles, light 
cream mayonnaise. 

MERRY WIDOW. Heart of romaine, alternate slices of alligator 
pears, strips of red and green peppers. 

MY LADY. Lettuce, slices of pineapple, orange, grape-fruit, 
and slices of apple upright. Decorate with cherries, mayon- 
naise with whipped cream. 

NICAISE. (Bowl.) Lettuce, potatoes in dice, three pieces of 
tomatoes, string beans, pimolas. 

ORANGE. Remove pulp and cut with boiled chestnuts. 

ORIENTAL. Endive, lettuce, tomatoes, red peppers and pine- 
apple, light mayonnaise with paprika. 

PEACH. 5 large peaches, 1 orange, 1 cup white grapes seeded 
and skinned, yi cup cherries, 1 cup powdered sugar. 

PINEAPPLE. 1 cup pineapple, 3 oranges, 3 bananas, 2 cups 
celery, 1 cup cream. 

POMMESDEN. Apple hollowed out. Make a macedoine of 
asparagus tips, French string beans, green peas, red and green 
peppers, mayonnaise. Sprinkle with chopped truffles. 

176 



SALADS 

PLAZA. Heart of endive, pears and grape-fruit, plaza dressing. 
POTATO. Potato cubes, chopped celery, apple, parsley, cream. 
POTATO. Small slices potato, cucimiber, onion, beet, sift yolk. 
PRILO. (Bowl.) Chicory, tomatoes, celery, artichoke bottoms, 

potatoes all in dice, chopped truffles. 
PURITEMPS. Romaine escarole, tomatoes and asparagus tips. 
ROYAL. Romaine, water-cress, thick slice of tomato, celery in 

julienne, French dressing. 
ST. GEORGE. (Bowl.) Chicory and apple in julienne, dressing 

of whipped cream with horseradish and lemon juice. 
SARATOGA. Heart of romaine, slices of grape-fruit, and bananas, 

cherries in half, diced green peppers. 
SERENA. Romaine, alligator pear, tomato and celery, light 

cream mayonnaise. 
SERVILLANE. Scooped orange filled with diced apples, celery 

and pineapple, chopped nuts and mayonnaise with cream and 

paprika. Decorate with truffles and pimentos. 
SICILIENNE. Scooped orange, diced apples, celery and pine- 
apple, chopped nuts mixed with mayonnaise with paprika, 

Decorate top with truffles and pimentos. 
TERESA. (Bowl.) Romaine, celery, apple and potatoes in 

juHenne, light cream mayonnaise. 
TOMATO. Alternate sliced tomato and cucumber. French 

dressing. 
TOMATO. Remove inner portion. Refill with equal parts 

celery, apple, nuts, all chopped fine. 
TRIANON. Tomato hollowed out, julienne of celery with 

lettuce. Serve on lettuce leaves. 
TURQUOISE. Escarole, celery, pineapple, and pimentos in 

julienne, mayonnaise. 
VALENCIENNES. Heart of lettuce hollowed out, celery in dice, 

slices of hard-boiled eggs, strips of truffles. 
VENITIENNE. (Bowl.) Lettuce, beets, celery knobs, French 

string beans, apples in julienne, French dressing with paprika. 
VERA. Heart of lettuce or romaine, small quartered tomato, 

artichoke bottoms, red and green peppers, cream dressing 

with lemon juice. 
VIENNOISE. Heart of lettuce scooped out, celery in dice, slices 

of hard-boiled eggs, truffles in julienne, French dressing. 

177 



THE MODERN CLUB 



ZEPHYR. Heart of endive, grape-fruit, julienne of pickled wal- 
nuts, cream mayonnaise with paprika. 

SALAD LILLIAN 

Have half a heart of crisp, white lettuce for each person, and, 
with a sharp knife, scoop a little depression in the cut side of each 
heart and slice a bit from the other side that it may stand firm 
on the salad plate. Make four tiny oval balls of cream cheese for 
each nest of lettuce, and dust with paprika. Place in the "nest" 
and pour some red currant Bar le Due around each one, and serve 
with French dressing seasoned with paprika and some tiny toasted 
saltines. The Epicure, Boston 

FROZEN SALAD, No. 1 

1 pkg. cream cheese 10 marshmallows (diced) 

1/2 cup mayonnaise Vi lb. pecans or walnuts 

1 small can pineapple 1 qt. whipped cream (unsweetened) 

Vi can white cherries Lettuce 

Cream the cheese with mayonnaise. Cut up pineapple and 
cherries and let drain well. Add marslimallows, pecans or walnuts, 
and whipped cream. Pour into mold and freeze. 

Mrs. Willis F. Manges 

FROZEN SALAD, No. 2 

1 cup fruit: oranges, pineapples, 1 cup whipped cream 

bananas and cherries % cup dressing 

Dressing 

1 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

Yolks of 2 eggs V2 tsp. paprika 

314 tbsp. flour Vi cup vinegar (teacup) 

3V2 tbsp. sugar Dash cayenne pepper 

(Level measuring) 

Cook in double boiler. Place in mold; cover with waxed 
paper. Pack for 2 hours in equal parts of chopped ice and ice 
cream salt. Serve with juice left from fruit. This will make 
enough for 8 persons. Mrs. Edward Cadwallader 

178 



SALADS 



FROZEN FRUIT SALAD, No. 3 



1 can white cherries, stoned 1 lemon (imless oranges are very 
1 can pears sour) 

3 oranges 1 pt. oil mayonnaise 

4 grape-fruit 1 pt. cream, whipped 

Cut fruit the size of cherries and mix with mayonnaise and 
cream (1 can of peaches and 1 of pineapple may be added if desired) . 
Pack in a freezer and turn very slowly until frozen. No longer. 
Serve on crisp lettuce. Evelyn Merwin 

FROZEN FRUIT SALAD, No, 4 

1 cup mayonnaise 1 tsp. gelatin dissolved in 1 tbsp. 

1 cup whipped cream hot water 

1 cup mixed fruits 

Whip cream first, then add the mayonnaise, then gelatin 
(cooled), and then fruit. Pack in 1-lb. baking-powder boxes and 
pack in ice and salt and let stand 3 hours. Slice and serve on lettuce 
with a fruit garnish. This is a nice summer salad. 

Mrs. Harold DeLancey Downs 

FROZEN PEAR SALAD, No. 5 

One can of pears frozen in can without unsealing. Freeze 5 
hours, remove from can and cut in JE^-inch slices across the mold 
and serve with mayonnaise dressing with chopped olives (mix them 
in it), arrange on a nest of lettuce leaves, 

Mrs. Harold DeLancey Downs 

EGG SALAD 

Cook 6 eggs until hard. Cut the whites in rings, and arrange 
them on crisp lettuce leaves, sifting over them the yolks of 4 of 
the eggs. It may be done by pressing them through a fine wire 
sieve. Serve the mayonnaise in a bowl for this salad. A second 
method is to put the mayonnaise over the lettuce leaves, and over 
that the white rings and the sifted yolks. Contributed 

SPINACH AND CREAM CHEESE SALAD 

Vz of a 10-cent cream cheese Little salt and cayenne pepper 

Vz cup cooked spinach (sifted) 1 tsp. salad oil 

179 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Put all in with the cheese, mixing well, and form in small 
balls, putting 3 in a nest of lettuce (for each person), and cover 
with French dressing. This will serve 3 or 4 persons. 

Mrs. Edward S. Crocker 

TOMATO SALAD 

Stuff a ripe tomato with cream cheese, arrange on lettuce, 
and serve with dressing made of — 

3 tbsp. vinegar 1 tsp. powdered mustard 

4 tbsp. olive oil 1 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. granulated sugar 1 tsp. paprika 

Piece of onion 

Miss M. W. Lovell 

TOMATO JELLY 

1 can tomatoes 1 piece bay leaf 
y-i box Nelson's, or 2 tbsp. granu- 3 peppercorns 

lated gelatin 1 tsp. sugar 

Vi cup cold water 1 slice onion 

2 tsp. salt 3 cloves 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water until soft. Cook the 
tomatoes and seasoning (except salt) for 20 minutes. Strain and 
add salt. Pour the hot liquid over the softened gelatin, stir until 
it is dissolved. Then pour into custard cups, which have been 
wet with cold water. Serve very cold on lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise dressing. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

JELLIED CHICKEN 

1 cup diced chicken A little pimento 

1 cup celery 1 pt. chicken stock 

1 envelope Knox's gelatin 

Heat stock and dissolve gelatin. Put salad in mold and pour 
stock over. When cool, serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

WHIPPED CREAM DRESSING 

2 tbsp. sugar V2 tsp. salt 

2V^ tbsp. milk ly^ tbsp. vinegar 

2 eggs 
180 



SALADS 

Mix sugar and salt with milk; add well-beaten eggs; then 
add vinegar slowly, beating constantly. Cook until it thickens. 
Let cool, then fold in 1 pint of whipped cream. 

Helen M. Wright 

CHICKEN SALAD (Careme's Recipe) 

Take some tender pullets; fry them in the saute pan, or roast 
them ; when cold, cut them up, skinning and trimming them neatly. 
Put the pieces into a tureen, with some salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, 
some sprigs of parsley, and an onion cut into slices; mix all well 
together; cover, and let stand for some hours; then, just before 
serving, drain the salad, taking care to remove all bits of onion, 
etc., and place it tastefully on lettuce leaves, with the hearts of 
the lettuce on top, and cover with a mayonnaise dressing. 

Contributed 

GINGER ALE SALAD 

iVz tbsp. gelatin 1 cup ginger ale 

2 tbsp. cold water Vs cup preserved ginger, cut fine 

Vs cup boiling water Va cup celery, cut fine 

2 tbsp. sugar Va cup white grapes, skinned and 

Juice of 1 lemon halved 

Salt Yi cup shredded pineapple 

Soak gelatin in the cold water for 5 or 10 minutes. Then add 
the boiling water and stir well. Add sugar, lemon juice, the tiniest 
pinch of salt and the ginger ale. Set aside to cool and when it 
just begins to jell, but before it becomes set, add celery, ginger, 
white grapes, pineapple. This makes 5 or 6 individual molds. 
Serve with any good maj^onnaise into which has been beaten 1 cup 
of whipped cream. Or make into 1 ring mold and fill center with 
the cream mayonnaise. Can be made the day before using. 

Mrs. Robert E. Kline, Boston 

PALM BEACH SALAD 

Arrange on individual salad plates a ring of small white heart 
lettuce leaves and place a ring of preserved pineapple in the center. 
Arrange on this a star of alternate slices of grape-fruit and orange, 
nicely peeled, and serve with French dressing. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
181 



THE MODERN CLUB 



RUSSIAN SALAD 

1 can French peas 1 doz. olives, chopped 

1 can French beans 1 tbsp. capers and chopped pickles 

1 cup celery (cut not too fine) 

Wipe the vegetables dry before mixing with a mayonnaise 
dressing made with gelatin. It can be made in 1 mold or is nicer 
in individual molds, cups >^ full. Served on lettuce leaf. Oil 
the mold. Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 

ORANGE SALAD 

Peel and slice thin oranges, arrange on water-cress, over them 
sprinkle the meat of chopped walnuts. Make French dressing, 
using lemon juice instead of vinegar ; pour over the whole. 

Mrs. Horatio C. Wood, Jr. 

INDIVIDUAL PRUNE AND KUMQUAT SALAD 

6 prunes 3 marshmallows 

2 kumquats Boiled salad dressing 

Lettuce 

Soak the prunes for a few hours, then carefully remove the 
pits. Drain well. Fill the seed-cavities with a mixture of marsh- 
mallows and kumquats cut in small pieces with sharp scissors. 
For serving arrange in a nest of lettuce and pass the dressing. 

Mrs. George Fetteroff 

GRAPE AND STRAWBERRY SALAD 

Seed sufficient quantity of white grapes. Mix with mayon- 
naise and serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with strawberries. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FRUIT SALAD 

Malaga grapes Pineapple 

Oranges Grape-fruit 

Marshmallows 

After removing seeds and skins of equal portions of pineapple, 
oranges, Malaga grapes and grape-fruit, add marshmallows mixed 
with mayonnaise and whipped cream. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Miss M. W. Lovell 
182 



SALADS 

MELON SALAD 

Pare and slice lengthwise a small melon, cut in narrow pieces 
and place on lettuce leaves in the form of petals of a flower. Fill 
the center with small cream cheese balls that have bits of pimentos 
in. Use plain French dressing. 

Miss M. W. Lovell 

GRAPE SALAD 

2 eggs 1 tbsp. butter 
V4 cup vinegar 1/2 cup milk 

V4 tsp. mustard 1/2 pt. thick cream 

3 tsp. soft sugar 2 lbs. Malaga grapes 
Pinch of salt and pepper 1 cup nuts 

Mix eggs, vinegar, mustard, sugar, salt, pepper and butter. 
Heat and add milk. Stir until it thickens. When cold and shortly 
before serving stir cream, beaten stiff, into the dressing. Mix 
dressing over 2 lbs. Malaga grapes, seeded, and one cup of nuts 
(pecans, English walnuts or hickory). Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. George Dunbar Shewell 

PEACH SALAD 

If you have a few pieces of canned peaches or pears in the ice 
chest, serve on lettuce and fill the center with mayonnaise with a 
little cut-up celery in it. 

Miss Marie A. Jones 

APPLE SALAD 

Cut 3 apples in small square pieces, add a few stalks of celery 
cut in small pieces and 10 cents' worth shelled walnuts or pecans, 
mix with mayonnaise and serve on lettuce. 

Miss Marie A. Jones 

VEGETABLE SALAD 

Two cups boiled potatoes, diced and marinated with French 
dressing. Let this stand several hours if possible. Add 1 onion 
sliced thick, and any vegetable that may be in ice box, such as 
cabbage, cucumbers, string beans, or celery, pour on a mayonnaise 
and cream dressing and garnish with beets or tomatoes. 

Miss Marie A. Jones 
183 



THE MODERN CLUB 



PRUNE SALAD 

Take cooked prunes and remove the stones, stuff with pecan 
meats and serve on lettuce with French dressing. 

Miss Marie A. Jones 

CARROT SALAD 

When carrots are left from a stew wash them and serve on 
lettuce with French or oil mayonnaise dressing. Carrots are better 
flavored cooked this way. Miss Marie A. Jones 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING, No. 1 

1 cup milk V4 tsp. mustard 

2 tsp. flour Butter size of a walnut 
Yolks of 3 eggs Vinegar, salt, pepper 

Blend flour and mustard with a little of the milk. Beat up 
eggs and add to the flour and mustard, then put in the remainder 
of the milk. Cook in a double boiler until thick. Take from the 
fire and add butter, some vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, beating 
it in well. Set it aside to cool and then pour into a pint jar ready 
to be placed in the ice box. In cool weather this will keep several 
days. 

This is a delicious dressing when olive oil cannot be used. 

Miss Violette T. Haines 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING, No. 2 

2 tbsp. butter 1 cup sour cream 

1 tbsp. flour 1 cup vinegar (half water) 

1 tbsp. sugar 3 eggs 

1 tsp. salt Little mustard 

Dash of red pepper 

Cook in double boiler until creamy, 

Mrs. T. S. Dando 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING, No. 3 

2 tsp. mustard 1 egg 

2 tsp. sugar 1 cup milk 

1 tsp. flour 1 tbsp. vinegar 

y^ tsp. salt 
184 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



Let milk come to boil, add egg into which the mustard and 
sugar and flour have been well beaten. Stir over fire until mixture 
thickens; add vinegar, take from fire, add salt. 

Mrs. G. a. Van Lennep 

SALAD DRESSING 

1 tbsp. oil 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. mustard 3 eggs 

1 tbsp. salt % cup vinegar 

% cup milk or cream 

Mix oil and mustard until smooth, add to this salt and sugar. 
Mix all thoroughly. Now add eggs (well beaten), vinegar and 
milk or cream. Cook like custard. The above salt and sugar must 
be used according to taste. Contributed 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

2 baked potatoes 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. butter Juice of 1 lemon 
Yolk of 1 egg 2 tbsp. pineapple juice 

y-i cup whipped cream 

Skin the baked potatoes and heat in butter. Add the egg 
yolk, sugar, lemon juice and pineapple juice. Just before serving 
add whipped cream. 

White grapes and pineapple on lettuce leaves make a splendid 
combination for the above dressing. 

Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 

CHEESE 

To a cake of pimento cheese add mayonnaise, chopped olives 
and onion juice to taste. Mold into balls to serve with salads. 

Mrs. a. Reed McIntire 

WHIPPED CREAM DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALAD 

2 tbsp. sugar V2 tsp. salt 

lyz tbsp. milk ly^ tbsp. vinegar 

2 eggs 

Mix sugar and salt with milk, add eggs well beaten. Add 
vinegar slowly, beating constantly to prevent curdling. Then 

185 



THE MODERN CLUB 



cook in double boiler until it thickens, stir until smooth, let cool. 
Then fold in cream whipped stiff. 

Mrs. John Wood, Jr. 

CREAM MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Yolk of 1 egg (beaten) y2 tsp. salt 

1 cup oil added drop by drop while Paprika 

being beaten 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 pt. whipped cream 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALAD 

Vz cup sugar V2 cup water 

1 tbsp. flour or 

Juice of 2 oranges 1/2 cup pineapple juice 

Juice of 1 lemon 1 tsp. butter 

1 egg 1 cup whipped cream 

Blend sugar and flour together; add juice of oranges and 
lemon ; well-beaten egg, water, or better, use instead yi cup juice 
from a can of pineapple ; add butter. Cook over low blaze, stirring 
constantly until thick. Let cool and place on ice until ready to 
serve, then add whipped cream. 

This dressing is good served with a salad of white lettuce 
hearts on which are placed whole cooked prunes which have been 
carefully pitted and stuffed with walnuts and cream cheese. 

Mrs. Robert Kline, Boston 

SWEET BOILED DRESSING 

1 tbsp. cornstarch 1 egg 

3 tbsp. sugar 1 cup cream 

y-i tsp. mustard Vs cup vinegar 

V2 tsp. salt 2 tbsp. butter 

Dash of pepper 1/2 cup thick whipped cream 

Rub cornstarch, sugar, mustard, salt and pepper all together 
in a saucepan until well mixed, then add egg; beat until smooth 
and light. Then add cream and when thoroughly blended beat 
in vinegar that has been heated to the scalding point, with butter. 
Stir constantly until it begins to thicken, remove from fire and 

186 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



beat 5 minutes and set away to cool. If desired, stir in whipped 
cream before serving. This is for fruit salad. 

Mrs. a. Reed McIntire 

BOILED DRESSING 

Shaved cabbage 1 tsp. sugar 

1 tsp. salt 1 egg 

V2 tsp. mustard 1/2 cup milk (heated) 

Cayeime 1 tsp. butter 

V4 cup vinegar (heated) 

Shave the cabbage very fine, using about 2 cups. Mix the 
salt, mustard, cayenne and sugar together until perfectly blended; 
add the egg (unbeaten), and pour the heated milk on this mixture. 
Return to the double boiler, add the vinegar and butter. Cook 
until it thickens. If it curdles, place the upper part of the boiler 
in a pan of cold water and beat the custard with an egg-beater 
until it is smooth. Strain it and pour it over the shaved cabbage. 

Contributed 



MAYONNAISE SALAD DRESSING WITH GELATIN 

3 gills olive oil i/g oz. gelatin 

Yolks of 4 eggs 4 oz. cream 

V2 oz. powdered mustard 1 saltspoon salt 

3 oz. vinegar Cayenne 

Put the yolks of eggs in china bowl and rub the mustard into 
them until smooth, then drop in oil slowly and stir briskly with 
wooden spoon. Dissolve the gelatin in a little water gently warmed 
and when cool beat it well with the cream (which should be rich). 
Add salt and pepper, stir the whole into the sauce and work all 
thoroughly into a thick, creamy paste. Keep in a cool place till 
needed for use. Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

1 tsp. mustard Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 tsp. sugar 1 cup olive oil 

Vi tsp. salt 2 tbsp. vinegar 

Cayenne 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

187 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Mix the mustard, sugar, salt and cayenne until well blended. 
Add this mixture to the yolks ; then add a few drops of oil until 
Yz cup has been used, beating with an egg-beater or wooden spoon; 
then add alternately the vinegar, lemon juice and remainder of oil. 
It should be a thick dressing, and not put upon the meat until 
ready to serve. Cover the meat or lobster first with French 
dressing, allowing sufficient time to season thoroughly. The 
mayonnaise may be served separately. If the dressing curdles, 
take the yolk of an q,%% and add gradually the dressing to it, and it 
will become smooth. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

MAYONNAISE 

1 egg Pinch of paprika 

1 tsp. sugar y-i tbsp. lemon 

1/2 tsp. salt Vz tbsp. vinegar 

V2 tsp. mustard 1 cup Wesson oil 

Mix whole egg, salt, mustard, sugar, paprika, lemon and 
vinegar together iti a large bowl, using a Dover beater. Pour oil 
in, full tablespoon at a time. This dressing should be made in 
5 minutes. Mrs. S. Blair Luckie, 

. Vice-President, Eastern District 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Yolks of 2 eggs V^ tsp. mustard 

y2 tsp. salt 4 tbsp. vinegar or lemon juice 

V2 tsp. pepper 2 cups olive oil 

4 tbsp. boiling water 

Beat the yolks, add the seasonings and beat again; then beat 
in the vinegar or lemon juice, using an egg-beater; add 1 tsp. of 
the oil and continue beating; add oil, teaspoon at a time, 4 or 5 
times, beating vigorously meanwhile, then add the oil by the 
tablespoon until all has been used. Finish with the boiling water, 
beating it in in the same manner as the oil. 

Mrs. G. U. Rehfuss 

FRENCH DRESSING 

V4 tsp. salt 3 tbsp. oil 

y% tsp. pepper 1 tbsp. vinegar 

188 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



Mix in order given, adding the oil slowly. This dressing may- 
be used with vegetables, also over veal, chicken or lobster to season 
the meat before putting on the mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FRENCH DRESSING 

1/2 tsp. salt 6 tbsp. olive oil 

14 tsp. white paprika and dark 2 tbsp. vinegar 

paprika Vi tsp. onion juice 

Beat all together. 

Miss M. W. Lovell 



189 



CAKES 

If sweet milk is used take 2 tsp. cream of tartar and 1 tsp. 
of soda. Bake as a loaf or in 2 layers. 

MOCHA ICING 

1 tbsp. melted butter 1 dessertspoon ground coffee 

2 cups pulverized sugar 2 tsp. cocoa 

Vanilla 

Mix melted butter and sugar together. Boil ground coffee in 
}4. cup of water 15 or 20 minutes. Then take 2 tbsp. of the coffee 
and cream all three together. Then add cocoa and vanilla. 

Mrs. William E. Banner 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 1 

4 eggs Vi cup butter (well creamed with 
2 squares chocolate (dissolved in sugar) 

3 tbsp. hot water) 1% cups flour 

IV2 cups sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

14 cup milk 1 heaping tsp. baking powder 

Bake 45 minutes. 

FILLING 

2 cups powdered sugar 2 tbsp. cocoa 

Butter (size of a walnut) 1 tbsp. vanilla 

Dissolve in coffee (about % cup). 

Mrs. Arthur L. Bunting 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 2 

2 cups sugar 3 eggs 

V^ cup butter 3 cups flour 

1 cup milk 3 tsp. baking powder 

Bake in 3 or 4 layers. 

FROSTING AND FILLING 

Vi cake (full) Baker's chocolate 5 tbsp. milk 

1 cup pulverized sugar 

Scrape the chocolate and put it on the back of the range 
to melt. When melted, stir in the milk and sugar, and let it boil 
5 minutes, stirring constantly to keep from burning. Spread on 
top and between layers. It does not thicken until cold. 

Mrs. a. a. O'Daniel 
209 



THE MODERN CLUB 



CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 3 

V2 lb. butter 2 cups flour 

6 eggs 1 heaping tsp. baking powder 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

y2 lb. Baker's chocolate (melted) 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add yolks of eggs well 
beaten, keep beating and add milk slowly, then the flour. Beat 
very light. Beat whites of eggs stiff, add gradually to the mixture. 
Stir in the chocolate after melting. Beat thoroughly, add baking 
powder and vanilla. Mrs. George R. Sullivan 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 4 

1 cup sugar 1 small tsp. soda 

1 egg V4 cup grated chocolate 

1 heaping tbsp. butter IV2 cups flour 
V2 cup sour milk (or sweet) 1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the sugar, egg and butter. Add sour milk (or sweet 
milk), soda, chocolate melted in a little hot water, flour and 
vanilla. Bake as loaf or in 2 layers. If sweet milk is used, then use 
both soda and cream of tartar — one tsp. soda, 2 tsp. cream of 
tartar. Mrs. G. C. Chance 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 5 

iVz cups sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

V2 cup butter 3 eggs 

yi cup milk Vi lb. grated chocolate 

l3^ cups flour 5 tbsp. sugar 

Add boiling milk until a thick paste and add to the batter. 
Bake in small pans. Mrs. Herbert Fox 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 6 

2 oz. chocolate Va cup milk 

V3 cup butter 3 tsp. baking powder 

iVa cups sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

4 eggs 2 cups flour 

Dissolve the chocolate in 5 tbsp. of boiling water. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar gradually, beating all the while. Separate 
the eggs and beat the yolks and add them to the butter and sugar; 

210 



^ CAKES 

then add the milk, then the melted chocolate, cooled vanilla, and 
the flour, which has been sifted with the baking powder; give all 
a vigorous beating. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and 
stir them into the mixture quickly and lightly. Turn into 2 
greased jelly-cake pans and bake in a moderate oven. 

FILLING FOR CHOCOLATE CAKE 

3 tbsp. flour Yolk of 1 egg 
11/4 cups milk V2 cup sugar 

1 oz. chocolate 1 tsp. vanilla 

Moisten the flour with yi cup cold milk and cook in the hot 
milk 20 minutes. Add 1 tbsp. hot water to the chocolate and beat 
until it is smooth. Beat the yolk of the egg and add the sugar to it, 
then the chocolate, then gradually the hot milk and flour. Return 
to double boiler and cook over hot water for 5 minutes, stirring 
it constantly. Remove from the fire and, when cool, add the 
vanilla. The white may be used for boiled frosting. 

Drexel Institute 

CHOCOLATE BROWNIES 

2 eggs 1 cup butter 
1 cup sugar 1 cup nuts 

J/2 cup flour V2 tsp. vanilla 

Bake in a square pan and cut in squares. 

N. M. Johnson 
(Through Mrs. Edward E. Montgomery) 

BOSTON LAYER CAKE 

1 lb. pulverized sugar 1 cup milk 

1/2 lb. butter 1 lb- flour 

4 eggs 2 tsp. baking soda 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the butter and sugar together, add slightly beaten 
yolks of eggs, then the milk; flour mixed and sifted with baking 
powder, the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and the vanilla. Bake in 
layers in moderate oven. 

ICING 

1 lb. sugar ^4 cup water 

Whites of 3 eggs 
211 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Boil until stringy, add whites of eggs well beaten. Spread on 
cake. Mrs. Godfrey N. Degerberg 

GINGERBREAD, No. 1 

2l^ cups flour 1 cup sour milk 

Vz cup sugar iVi tsp. soda bicarbonate 

2 tsp. ginger 1 cup molasses 

1 tsp. cinnamon 1 egg, beaten light 

3 tbsp. melted drippings 

Mix and sift dry materials, beaten egg, pour wet mixture into 
dry and mix and. beat it thoroughly. Bake it in greased muffin 
tins or shallow pan for about 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

GINGERBREAD, No. 2 

V4 cup butter 1% cups flour 

Vz cup sugar 1 tsp. ginger 

1 egg V2 tsp. cinnamon 

^2 cup molasses Salt 

1/2 cup milk (sour if possible) Vz tsp. soda 

Sift the flour, spice, salt and soda together. Mix in the order 
given. Bake in a pan where the dough will be about 1 inch thick. 
It will take about 30 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Contributed 

SOFT GINGERBREAD, No. 3 

1 cup milk 4 cups flour 

1 cup butter 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup molasses 5 eggs 

Beat eggs separately. A little lard mixed with the butter 
will make it lighter. Then bake. 

Elisabeth Warren Green 

GINGERBREAD, No. 4 

1 cup lard and butter (mixed and V2 cup brown sugar mixed with 

melted) molasses 

2 eggs 1 cup seeded raisins (chopped) 
1 big cup sour milk V2 tsp. ginger 

V2 cup molasses (Porto Rico mo- A little nutmeg 

lasses if possible) Flour to make batter not too stiff 



Mrs. a. A. O'Daniel 



212 



CAKES 

AN INEXPENSIVE GINGERBREAD, No. 5 
(Use level measurements only for success) 

34 cup New Orleans molasses 1 level tsp. cinnamon 

6 tbsp. shortening 1 level tsp. ginger 

2 cups flour 1/2 level tsp. allspice 

2 level tbsp. baking powder I/4 level tsp. cloves 

Vz cup water 

Beat to mix. Bake in shallow oblong pan, well-greased and 
floured, in moderate oven, 35 minutes. 

Mrs. M. a. Wilson 



GINGERBREAD, No. 6 

1 cup shortening (half lard and 2 eggs 

butter) 3 cups flour 

1 cup New Orleans molasses 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup brown sugar (dark) 1 tbsp. ginger 

1 cup sweet milk y^ tbsp. cinnamon 

Sift flour and spices together. Mix eggs, sugar and shortening, 
and beat well. Add molasses, then milk, then flour. Scald soda 
and stir lightly. Mrs. Brooke M, Anspach 



MARKET GINGERBREAD, No. 7 

y^ lb. butter 1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 2V2 cups flour 

1 cup molasses . V^ cup milk (scant) 

Cinnamon and ginger to taste 

For a change in flavoring use part of grated lemon and juice. 

Contributed 



SOFT GINGER CAKE, No. 1 

1 egg V2 tsp. baking soda 

1/2 cup sugar V-/^ cups flour 

1/2 cup butter 1 tsp. ginger 

1 cup molasses 1 tsp. cinnamon 

Vi cup boiling water 1 tsp. nutmeg 

Mrs. William E. Hetzell 
213 



THE MODERN CLUB 



SPICE CAKES, No. 2 

SjBggs 1 cup milk 

2 cups flour y2 tsp. baking soda 
1*4 cups sugar 1 cup raisins, chopped 
1 cup butter 1 tbsp. cinnamon 

A little nutmeg 

To mix, separate eggs, cream sugar and butter, then add yolks ; 
add yi cup of milk, then flour, fold in whites, then rest of milk with 
baking soda in it, then cinnamon and raisins last. 

Mrs. George U. Rehfuss 

DELICIOUS GINGER CAKE, No. 3 

1 cup butter 1/2 cup milk 

1 cup molasses 3 eggs 

1 cup sugar 2 tsp. ginger 

3 cups flour V4 cup cinnamon 

3 level tsp. baking powder 

Put all in a bowl and beat hard for 3 minutes. Bake in moder- 
ate oven % hour. Mrs. Herbert Fox 

DROP GINGER COOKIES, No. 4 

1 cup shortening 4 tbsp. lukewarm water 

1 cup molasses 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup sugar 2 tsp. ginger 

2 eggs 4 cups flour 

Mrs. James A. Campbell 

GINGER SNAPS, No. 1 

1 cup sugar 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup molasses 1 tbsp. cinnamon 

1 cup butter 1 tbsp. ginger 

Flour enough to stiffen 

Roll out as thin as possible. Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

GINGER SNAPS, No. 2 

1 cup sugar 2 tbsp. ginger 

2 cups molasses 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup butter 3 pts. flour 

2 tsp. soda Pinch of salt 

214 



CAKES 

Roll as thin as possible. Bake quickly. 

Mrs. Marie A. Jones 

GINGER SNAPS, No. 3 

2 coffee cups molasses 1 tsp. salt 

1 cup butter 2 tsp. ginger 

1 cup brown sugar Grated rind of 1 orange 

2 tsp. white sugar Flour 

Put on the stove till it comes to a boil, then add enough flour 
to make a stiff dough, roll and cut into snaps. 

Mrs. Jos. M. Peale 

POUND CAKE OR LIGHT CHRISTMAS CAKE 

y-i lb. butter 6 oz. seedless or sultanas 

V2 lb. white sugar 1/2 lb. citron 

5 eggs (add one at a time, beaten 1 tsp. baking powder 

slightly) 1 tbsp. milk 

6 oz. seeded raisins, or ly^ cups flour 

Flavor with vanilla, line tin with paper and bake in slow oven 
2 hours. 

Dates and blanched almonds may be used if desired, but the 
cake as it stands is good. Mrs. Edwin Wilson 

OATMEAL CAKES 

1 cup pulverized sugar V2 tsp. salt 

2 large tbsp. butter 2^/2 cups rolled Quaker oats 
2 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar together; then add other ingredients. 
Drop from spoon far apart. When done sprinkle with pulverized 
sugar and cinnamon. Mrs. J. Clifford Jones 

POUND CAKE 

V^ cup butter Vi level tsp. mace or Va cup sliced 

1 level cup fine granulated sugar citron 

4 egg-yolks, beaten light 1 level cup and 2 level tbsp. flour 

4 egg-whites, beaten dry 2 level tsp. baking powder 

215 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Mix as a butter cake, sifting the mace, flour and baking 
powder together. No Hquid being used, add part of the whites 
before the flour, etc. Bake in a pan 8}4 x 6}4 inches about 35 
minutes. When citron is used push the slices into the mixture 
lengthwise after the mixture is in the pan. Cover with a plain 
boiled frosting or omit the frosting. Contributed 

SPICE CAKE, No. 1 

1 cup butter 3 eggs 

2 cups brown sugar 2 tsp. cinnamon 
3V2 cups flour Va tsp. cloves 

1 cup cold water V^ tsp. nutmeg 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 large cup raisins and currants 

Half of this makes a nice-sized cake. 

Mrs. William E. Banner 

SPICE CAKE, No. 2 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tsp. lemon extract 

34 cup butter V2 cup sour milk 

4 eggs 1 tsp. soda 

1 tsp. cinnamon 2 cups flour 

1 tsp. cloves 1 cup jelly 

Beat whites of eggs separately and add the beaten jelly and 
mix in last. Bake in layers. Mrs. John G. Pew 

FRUIT CAKE MADE WITH YEAST, No. 1 

3 cups milk ^2 cup butter 
3 pts. flour 1 egg 

1 tsp. salt 1 cup dried, preserved or candied 

V2 cup sugar fruit 

1 cake yeast 

Make a drop batter of 1 cup of milk (heated and cooled until 
lukewarm) and a part of the flour; add the yeast cake dissolved 
in }4 cup of lukewarm water. Let it rise in a warm place until 
double. Add the rest of the milk and flour enough to make the 
same sort of a batter. Again keep it warm and let it rise until 
double. Now cream the butter and sugar and combine with the 
egg, well beaten. Add this mixture to the light batter with the 

216 



CAKES 

fruit and salt. It may be necessary to add a little more flour. 
The batter should be thin enough to take the form of the mold 
easily. Fill the molds }i f^H of batter and let it rise a little more 
than double. Bake 30 minutes, in a moderate oven. When done, 
prepare a sauce with 1 pt. sugar, 1 pt. water, and flavoring, boiling 
together 5 minutes. Pour over the cakes and serve hot or cold. 
Sauce must be poured over while warm. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FRUIT CAKE, No. 2 

V2 lb. walnuts 2 tbsp. butter 

Vi lb. almonds 2 eggs 

Vi lb. candied cherries V4 cup milk 

1 lb. dates 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup sugar IV2 cups flour 

A pinch of salt 

Put walnuts, almonds, cherries and dates in whole; blanch 
almonds, rinse cherries in water, flour dates. Bake 1 hour and 
20 minutes. Mrs. William E. Banner 

FRUIT LAYER CAKE, No. 3 

11/2 cups sugar Yolks of 4 eggs 

1 cup butter 2 cups flour 

% cup milk 2 tsp. vanilla 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Bake 2 layers, and in remaining batter stir: 

1 cup raisins 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup currants Vi tsp. cloves 

Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

Whites of 10 eggs 1 lb. citron 

1 lb. granulated sugar 1 lb. paper-shell almonds 

V2 lb. flour 1 cocoanut, grated 

^2 lb. butter 

Cream butter and sugar, then stir in cocoanut, then flour, 
nuts, citron and last white of eggs. Miss Eva Hoover 

217 



THE MODERN CLUB 



FRUIT OR BLACK CAKE 
(Mary D. W. Randolph) 

IV4 lbs. butter 2 tsp. cinnamon 

1 lb. sugar 1 tsp. mace and cloves mixed 

1 lb. flour 13 eggs 

1 lb. citron 3 lbs. raisins, seeded and chopped 

1 grated nutmeg 2 lbs. currants 

Beat butter and sugar thoroughly, then stir in ^ lb. flour, 
beat the eggs very light, which add gradually, then the remainder 
of the flour, half at a time. After beating well, add spices. Mix 
all the fruit together and add one-third of it at a time. Beat well. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. L. H. Richards 



FRUIT LAYER CAKE 

1 V2 cups sugar Yolks of 4 eggs 

1 cup butter 2 cups flour 

2/3 cup milk 2 tsp. vanilla 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Bake two layers, and in remaining batter stir 

1 cup raisins 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup currants Vi tsp. cloves 

Mrs. Edward Cadwallader 
GRANDMOTHER LEVIS' FRUIT CAKE 



V2 lb. butter 


1/2 lb. raisins 


1/2 lb. flour 


1/2 lb. currants 


1 tsp. baking powder 


1 tsp. spices (nutmeg and cinnamon) 


1 tbsp. finely cut orange peel 


y2 lb. sugar 


1 tbsp. finely cut lemon peel 


5 eggs 



Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs, well beaten. Add flour 
with baking powder mixed in. Add orange and lemon peels, 
then raisins and currants (previously rubbed inflour to clean them). 
Add spices. Cover with brown paper and bake in a slow oven for 
3 hours. 

Mrs. Arthur L. Bunting 
218 



CAKES 



STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

2 cups pastry flour V4 cup shortening 

V2 cup cornstarch 1 cup milk 

4 level tsp. baking powder 2 baskets strawberries 

1/2 tsp. salt 2 cups sugar 

Sift together the dry ingredients ; with two knives cut in the 
shortening, use the milk in mixing to a soft dough; the dough 
should be too moist to knead. Press the dough into two well- 
buttered layer-cake pans. Bake about 15 minutes. Hull, wash 
and drain the berries, reserve a few choice berries for a garnish, cut 
the others in halves, mix with the sugar and let stand until the 
cake is ready. Spread the cakes with butter. Put the cakes 
together with the prepared berries between and above. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE A LA MODE 

Make a strawberry shortcake with biscuit crust. Make a 
sauce of 1 cup strawberry juice, K cup melted butter, and pow- 
dered sugar to taste. Serve this with the shortcake, passing it to 
each person. Alice L. Van Lennep 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS 

With two teaspoons shape chou paste on a buttered baking- 
dish in strips 4 inches long and 1 inch wide. Bake in an oven, hot 
on the bottom, about 25 minutes. When cold, slit each c^ke on 
one side and put in a spoonful of EngHsh cream. Cover the smooth 
side of each cake with confectioners' frosting made with chocolate 
and flavored with >< tsp. of vanilla. 

CHOU PASTE 

1 cup boiling water 1 level cup flour 

V2 cup butter or other shortening 3 large eggs 

Heat the water and shortening to the boiling point, sift in the 
flour, stir and cook until the mixture forms a smooth mass that 
does not stick to the pan. Turn into an earthen bowl; break in 
one of the eggs and beat until smooth; beat in the other eggs, 
one at a time, beating each time until smooth and light. 

219 



THE MODERN CLUB 



ENGLISH CREAM FILLING 

y2 cup flour IV2 cups hot milk 

Va level tsp. salt 2 eggs or 1 whole egg and 2 yolks 

y^ cup cold milk 3^ cup sugar 

Vi tsp. vanilla extract 

Mix the flour, salt and cold milk to a smooth paste and stir 
into the hot milk in a double boiler; continue to stir until the mix- 
ture thickens; cover and let cook 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Beat the eggs, beat in the sugar, and stir into the hot mixture; 
cover and let cook 5 minutes or until the egg is set, stirring once 
or twice. When cold, add the extract and use. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

1 cup milk 5 tbsp. butter 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 small nutmeg, grated 

Flour enough to roll as soft as possible 

Cook in boiling lard. 

POINTS ON FRYING DOUGHNUTS 
To prevent large cracks in doughnuts when frying, have the 
dough soft, turn the cakes as soon as they come to the top of the 
fat and often during the cooking. Too much flour makes dry, 
hard doughnuts. 

The choicest results in color and texture of doughnuts are 
secured with fat that has not been previously used for frying. 
After repeated fryings, fat should be discarded for all cooking 
purposes. The life of fat is lengthened by passing it through a nap- 
kin laid over a strainer after each use; by this means flour and 
other foreign substances that burn and become black at a much 
lower degree of heat than fat, are removed. 

An extra yolk of egg will furnish fat enough to do away with 
the addition of butter or other form of fat to a doughnut mixture. 

Contributed 

SALVATION ARMY DOUGHNUTS 

5 cups flour (more if necessary) 1 tsp. salt 

2 cups sugar 2 eggs 

5 level tsp. baking powder \y^ cups milk 

1 tbsp. lard 
220 



CAKES 

These ingredients are sufficient to make 4 dozen doughnuts. 
Captains V. Booth and A. McAllister 

CRULLERS 

1I^ cups sugar 5 tbsp. butter 

1 cup milk 4 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. salt Flour enough to make dough easy 

2 eggs to handle 

Roll out y2 inch thick and fry in deep fat. 

Mrs. Herbert Fox 

FROSTING, No. 1 

White of 1 egg 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 cup powdered sugar 

Put the unbeaten white of the egg into a bowl, add the sugar 
in small quantities, beating with a spoon. When all has been 
added, stir in the lemon juice. For chocolate frosting, omit the 
lemon and add melted chocolate and ^4. tsp. vanilla. 

Contributed 

FROSTING, No. 2 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tbsp. boiling water 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 

vStir the boiling water into the sugar and add the lemon juice. 
If too stiff, add a little more boiling water. Melted chocolate may 
be added to it instead of the lemon. Chocolate may be melted in 
a bowl over steam. Contributed 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING 

Whites of 3 eggs 3 cups confectioners' sugar 

3 tsp. lemon juice 

Put the eggs in a large bowl. Add 1 tbsp. sugar and beat 5 
minutes. Repeat until the mixture begins to thicken, then add the 
lemon juice. Continue to add sugar until the frosting will not run 
together when cut with a knife. Spread a thin layer of frosting 
on the cake and, when dry, cover with a layer y^ inch thick. When 

221 



THE MODERN CLUB 



firm, mark it for cutting. Add sugar more rapidly to the remainder 
of the frosting until it begins to harden on the spoon and bowl. 
Put a confectioners' tube into the end of a pastry bag. Partially 
fill the bag with frosting, twist the end tightly, and press the frost- 
ing through in the desired design. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BOILED FROSTING 

1 cup sugar Vs cup boiling water 

White of 1 egg 

Boil the sugar and water together until the syrup threads. 
Cool slightly and pour gradually on the beaten white. Beat until 
cold, then spread on cake. Cooked frostings may be spread on 
hot or cold cakes, and uncooked frostings on cakes slightly warm. 
Frostings made with boiling water should be used on cold cakes. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ICING FOR A CAKE 

2 squares of chocolate y^ cup milk 

1 cup brown sugar Small piece of butter 

Let boil for 10 minutes. Miss M. A. Leas 

CAKE ICING 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup cream 

1 cup white sugar Piece of butter size of egg 

Boil all together until it spins a thread, then beat until ready 
to go on cake. Mrs. C. H. Landenberger, Jr. 

CHOCOLATE ROCKS 

% cup butter 2 tbsp. milk 

Va cup Crisco 1 tsp. soda 

11/2 cups brown sugar 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

2 eggs 1 tsp. cinnamon 
1/2 cup English walnuts (ground) 2 tsp. cocoa 

34 cup dates 1 tsp. vanilla 

34 cup raisins 2^/2 cups flour 

Bake in hot oven. Miss Alice L. Van Lennep 

222 



CAKES 

CONDES 

Whites of 2 eggs 2 oz. almonds 

34 cup powdered sugar Fhiff paste 

Beat the eggs until stiff; add the sugar gradually, then the 
almonds, which have been blanched and chopped fine. Roll the 
paste yi inch thick. Cut in strips 3>^ inches long and 1 inch wide. 
Spread the mixture on each strip to within }i inch of the edge. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake 15 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

COOKIES 

1^4 lbs. butter 1 lb. sugar 

1 lb. flour 2 eggs 

Pinch of salt 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg, salt and flour. Make in 
long rolls on floured platter and stand in ice-box over night. In 
the morning cut very thin with a knife and brush with egg white 
and dust with sugar. Mrs. Herbert Fox 

COOKIES 

5 oz. butter 1 egg 

7 oz. pulverized sugar ^2 nutmeg grated, or cinnamon if 

8 oz. flour preferred 

Vi tsp. salt 

Beat the egg without separating and stir it into the creamed 
butter and sugar, add the nutmeg and salt, then the flour. Turn 
into a small bowl and stand in the refrigerator for 3 or 4 hours, 
or until the next day if more convenient, when they will roll out 
very thin. Bake in a quick oven imtil a light brown. 

Mrs. James F. Magee, Jr. 

COOKIES 

2 cups granulated sugar Nutmeg 

1 cup shortening (lard and butter 1 tsp. lemon extract 

or all lard) 5 cups flour 

3 eggs 1 tsp. soda (in sour cream) 

1 cup sour cream or sour milk 1 tsp. baking powder (in flour) 

Salt 

Dropped with a teaspoon on floured tins. Makes 5 dozen. 

Mrs. Walter Wilhelm. 
223 



THE MODERN CLUB 



KARRIE'S KOOKIES 

Sold by American Red Cross Auxiliary 84. 

V2 cup melted lard V^ cup raisins 

1 cup brown sugar 1/2 cup nuts 

V2 cup milk V2 tsp. salt 

1 egg Vanilla 

V/z cups flour or substitute 1^/2 tsp. baking powder 

2 squares melted chocolate 

Drop on buttered tins. Mrs. E. Pusey Passmore 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

1 cup sugar lYz tsp. baking powder 

1 tbsp. butter IV2 tsp. almond extract 

2 eggs 21/2 cups rolled oats 

Cream butter and sugar, add well-beaten eggs and almond 
extract. Then add rolled oats and baking powder. Drop on 
greased pans about ^ tsp. of mixture far enough apart so cakes 
do not run together. Bake in rather quick oven. 

Mrs. D. H. Cantrell 

SUGAR COOKIES 

2 cups sugar . 1 cup butter 

2 eggs Yz cup cornstarch 

1 tsp. soda 

Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 

SUGAR COOKIES 

V2 cup butter 1 egg 

1 cup sugar i/^ tsp. baking powder 

V4 cup milk Flour to roll thin 

Flavoring 

Roll a little at a time. Cut out. Bake about 10 minutes. 
They may be flavored with vanilla, lemon or cinnamon, using 1 
tsp. Any cake recipe with butter may be used for cookies, adding 
flour to it so as to roll thin. Contributed 

JUMBLES, No. 1 

1 cup sugar 1 egg, beaten whole 

1 cup butter iy2 cups sifted flour 

Cream sugar and butter, add egg, then slowly add sifted flour. 
Flavor and drop from teaspoon on baking-tins. Bake in quick 
oven. Contributed 

224 



CAKES 

If sweet milk is used take 2 tsp. cream of tartar and 1 tsp. 
of soda. Bake as a loaf or in 2 layers. 

MOCHA ICING 

1 tbsp. melted butter 1 dessertspoon ground coffee 

2 cups pulverized sugar 2 tsp. cocoa 

Vanilla 

Mix melted butter and sugar together. Boil ground coffee in 
yi cup of water 15 or 20 minutes. Then take 2 tbsp. of the coffee 
and cream all three together. Then add cocoa and vanilla, 

Mrs. William E. Banner 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 1 

4 eggs 1/2 cup butter (well creamed with 
2 squares chocolate (dissolved in sugar) 

3 tbsp. hot water) 1% cups flour 

xy^ cups sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Vi cup milk 1 heaping tsp, baking powder 

Bake 45 minutes. 

FILLING 

2 cups powdered sugar 2 tbsp. cocoa 

Butter (size of a walnut) 1 tbsp. vanilla 

Dissolve in coffee (about % cup), 

Mrs. Arthur L. Bunting 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 2 

2 cups sugar 3 eggs 

V2 cup butter 3 cups flour 

1 cup milk 3 tsp. baking powder 

Bake in 3 or 4 layers. 

FROSTING AND FILLING 
V4 cake (full) Baker's chocolate 5 tbsp, milk 

1 cup pulverized sugar 

Scrape the chocolate and put it on the back of the range 
to melt. When melted, stir in the milk and sugar, and let it boil 
5 minutes, stirring constantly to keep from burning. Spread on 
top and between layers. It does not thicken until cold. 

Mrs. a. a. O'Daniel 
209 



THE MODERN CLUB 



CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 3 

V2 lb- butter 2 cups flour 

6 eggs 1 heaping tsp. baking powder 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

1/2 lb. Baker's chocolate (melted) 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add yolks of eggs well 
beaten, keep beating and add milk slowly, then the flour. Beat 
very light. Beat whites of eggs stiff, add gradually to the mixture. 
Stir in the chocolate after melting. Beat thoroughly, add baking 
powder and vanilla. Mrs. George R. Sullivan 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 4 

1 cup sugar 1 small tsp. soda 

1 egg V4 cup grated chocolate 

1 heaping tbsp. butter V/z cups flour 
V2 cup sour milk (or sweet) 1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the sugar, egg and butter. Add sour milk (or sweet 
milk), soda, chocolate melted in a little hot water, flour and 
vanilla. Bake as loaf or in 2 layers. If sweet milk is used, then use 
both soda and cream of tartar — one tsp. soda, 2 tsp. cream of 
tartar. Mrs. G. C. Chance 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 5 

IV2 cups sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

1/2 cup butter 3 eggs 

Yz cup milk 14 lb. grated chocolate 

1% cups flour 5 tbsp. sugar 

Add boiling milk until a thick paste and add to the batter. 
Bake in small pans. Mrs. Herbert Fox 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, No. 6 

2 oz. chocolate 1/2 cup milk 

Va cup butter 3 tsp. baking powder 

IV2 cups sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

4 eggs 2 cups flour 

Dissolve the chocolate in 5 tbsp. of boiling water. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar gradually, beating all the while. Separate 
the eggs and beat the yolks and add them to the butter and sugar; 

210 



CAKES 

then add the milk, then the melted chocolate, cooled vanilla, and 
the flour, which has been sifted with the baking powder; give all 
a vigorous beating. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and 
stir them into the mixture quickly and lightly. Turn into 2 
greased jelly-cake pans and bake in a moderate oven. 

FILLING FOR CHOCOLATE CAKE 
3 tbsp. flour Yolk of 1 egg 

1 V4 cups milk V2 cup sugar 

1 oz. chocolate 1 tsp. vanilla 

Moisten the flour with % cup cold milk and cook in the hot 
milk 20 minutes. Add 1 tbsp. hot water to the chocolate and beat 
until it is smooth. Beat the yolk of the egg and add the sugar to it, 
then the chocolate, then gradually the hot milk and flour. Return 
to double boiler and cook over hot water for 5 minutes, stirring 
it constantly. Remove from the fire and, when cool, add the 
vanilla. The white may be used for boiled frosting. 

Drexel Institute 

CHOCOLATE BROWNIES 

2 eggs 1 cup butter 
1 cup sugar 1 cup nuts 

Vi cup flour yz tsp. vanilla 

Bake in a square pan and cut in squares. 

N. M. Johnson 
(Through Mrs. Edward E. Montgomery) 

BOSTON LAYER CAKE 

1 lb. pulverized sugar 1 cup milk 

1/2 lb. butter 1 lb. flour 

4 eggs 2 tsp. baking soda 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the butter and sugar together, add slightly beaten 
yolks of eggs, then the milk; flour mixed and sifted with baking 
powder, the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and the vanilla. Bake in 
layers in moderate oven. 

ICING 

1 lb. sugar y^ cup water 

Whites of 3 eggs 
211 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Boil until stringy, add whites of eggs well beaten. Spread on 
cake. Mrs. Godfrey N. Degerberg 

GINGERBREAD, No. 1 

2Vi cups flour 1 cup sour milk 

y2, cup sugar IV2 tsp. soda bicarbonate 

2 tsp. ginger 1 cup molasses 

1 tsp. cinnamon 1 egg, beaten light 

3 tbsp. melted drippings 

Mix and sift dry materials, beaten egg, pour wet mixture into 
dry and mix and beat it thoroughly. Bake it in greased muffin 
tins or shallow pan for about 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

GINGERBREAD, No. 2 

V4 cup butter 13/4 cups flour 

V2 cup sugar 1 tsp. ginger 

1 egg V2 tsp. cinnamon 

Vz cup molasses Salt 

Vz cup milk (sour if possible) V2 tsp. soda 

Sift the flour, spice, salt and soda together. Mix in the order 
given. Bake in a pan where the dough will be about 1 inch thick. 
It will take about 30 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Contributed 

SOFT GINGERBREAD, No. 3 

1 cup milk 4 cups flour 

1 cup butter 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup molasses 5 eggs 

Beat eggs separately. A little lard mixed with the butter 
will make it lighter. Then bake. 

Elisabeth Warren Green 

GINGERBREAD, No. 4 

1 cup lard and butter (mixed and 1/2 cup brown sugar mixed with 

melted) molasses 

2 eggs 1 cup seeded raisins (chopped) 
1 big cup sour milk V2 tsp. ginger 

V2 cup molasses (Porto Rico mo- A little nutmeg 

lasses if possible) Flour to make batter not too stiff 



Mrs. a. A. O'Daniel 



212 



CAKES 

AN INEXPENSIVE GINGERBREAD, No. 5 
(Use level measurements only for success) 

Va cup New Orleans molasses 1 level tsp. cinnamon 

6 tbsp. shortening 1 level tsp. ginger 

2 cups flour 1/2 level tsp. allspice 

2 level tbsp. baking powder Vi level tsp. cloves 

V2 cup water 

Beat to mix. Bake in shallow oblong pan, well-greased and 
floured, in moderate oven, 35 minutes. 

Mrs. M. a. Wilson 



GINGERBREAD, No. 6 

1 cup shortening (half lard and 2 eggs 

butter) 3 cups flour 

1 cup New Orleans molasses 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup brown sugar (dark) 1 tbsp. ginger 

1 cup sweet milk V2 tbsp. cinnamon 

Sift flour and spices together. Mix eggs, sugar and shortening, 
and beat well. Add molasses, then milk, then flour. Scald soda 
and stir lightly. Mrs. Brooke M. Anspach 



MARKET GINGERBREAD, No. 7 

Vi lb. butter 1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 21/2 cups flour 

1 cup molasses V^ cup milk (scant) 

Cinnamon and ginger to taste 

For a change in flavoring use part of grated lemon and juice. 

Contributed 



SOFT GINGER CAKE, No. 1 

1 egg yz tsp. baking soda 

^2. cup sugar IV2 cups flour 

1/2 cup butter 1 tsp. ginger 

1 cup molasses 1 tsp. cinnamon 

V2 cup boiling water 1 tsp. nutmeg 

Mrs. William E. Hetzell 
213 



THE MODERN CLUB 



SPICE CAKES, No. 2 

3 eggs 1 cup milk 

2 cups flour Vz tsp. baking soda 
iy2 cups sugar 1 cup raisins, chopped 
1 cup butter 1 tbsp. cinnamon 

A little nutmeg 

To mix, separate eggs, cream sugar and butter, then add yolks; 
add ^ cup of milk, then flour, fold in whites, then rest of milk with 
baking soda in it, then cinnamon and raisins last. 

Mrs. George U. Rehfuss 

DELICIOUS GINGER CAKE, No. 3 

1 cup butter V2 cup milk 

1 cup molasses 3 eggs 

1 cup sugar 2 tsp. ginger 

3 cups flour V4 cup cinnamon 

3 level tsp. baking powder 

Put all in a bowl and beat hard for 3 minutes. Bake in moder- 
ate oven ^ hour. Mrs. Herbert Fox 

DROP GINGER COOKIES, No. 4 

1 cup shortening 4 tbsp. lukewarm water 

1 cup molasses 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup sugar 2 tsp. ginger 

2 eggs 4 cups flour 

Mrs. James A. Campbell 

GINGER SNAPS, No. 1 

1 cup sugar 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup molasses 1 tbsp. ciimamon 

1 cup butter 1 tbsp. ginger 

Flour enough to stiffen 

Roll out as thin as possible. Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

GINGER SNAPS, No. 2 

1 cup sugar 2 tbsp. ginger 

2 cups molasses 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup butter 3 pts. flour 

2 tsp. soda Pinch of salt 

214 



CAKES 

Roll as thin as possible. Bake quickly. 

Mrs. Marie A. Jones 

GINGER SNAPS, No. 3 

2 coffee cups molasses 1 tsp. salt 

1 cup butter 2 tsp. ginger 

1 cup brown sugar Grated rind of 1 orange 

2 tsp. white sugar Flour 

Put on the stove till it comes to a boil, then add enough flour 
to make a stiff dough, roll and cut into snaps. 

Mrs. Jos. M. Peale 

POUND CAKE OR LIGHT CHRISTMAS CAKE 

V2 lb. butter 6 oz. seedless or sultanas 

1/2 lb. white sugar V^ lb. citron 

5 eggs (add one at a time, beaten 1 tsp, baking powder 

slightly) 1 tbsp. milk 

6 oz. seeded raisins, or 2V^ cups flour 

Flavor with vanilla, line tin with paper and bake in slow oven 
2 hours. 

Dates and blanched almonds may be used if desired, but the 
cake as it stands is good. Mrs. Edwin Wilson 

OATMEAL CAKES 

1 cup pulverized sugar V2 tsp. salt 

2 large tbsp. butter 2V2 cups rolled Quaker oats 
2 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar together ; then add other ingredients. 
Drop from spoon far apart. When done sprinkle with pulverized 
sugar and cinnamon. Mrs. J. Clifford Jones 

POUND CAKE 

1/2 cup butter Vi level tsp. mace or Vs cup sliced 
1 level cup fine granulated sugar citron 

4 egg-yolks, beaten light 1 level cup and 2 level tbsp. flour 

4 egg-whites, beaten dry 2 level tsp. baking powder 

215 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Mix as a butter cake, sifting the mace, flour and baking 
powder together. No liquid being used, add part of the whites 
before the flour, etc. Bake in a pan 8)4 x 6}^ inches about 35 
minutes. When citron is used push the slices into the mixture 
lengthwise after the mixture is in the pan. Cover with a plain 
boiled frosting or omit the frosting. Contributed 

SPICE CAKE, No. 1 

1 cup butter 3 eggs 

2 cups brown sugar 2 tsp. cinnamon 
3V2 cups flour V2 tsp. cloves 

1 cup cold water Vi tsp. nutmeg 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 large cup raisins and currants 

Half of this makes a nice-sized cake. 

Mrs. William E. Banner 

SPICE CAKE, No. 2 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tsp. lemon extract 

3/4 cup butter V2 cup sour milk 

4 eggs 1 tsp. soda 

1 tsp. cinnamon 2 cups flour 

1 tsp. cloves 1 cup jelly 

Beat whites of eggs separately and add the beaten jelly and 
mix in last. Bake in layers. Mrs. John G. Pew 

FRUIT CAKE MADE WITH YEAST, No. 1 

3 cups milk V2 cup butter 
3 pts. flour 1 egg 

1 tsp. salt 1 cup dried, preserved or candied 

V2 cup sugar fruit 

1 cake yeast 

Make a drop batter of 1 cup of milk (heated and cooled until 
lukewarm) and a part of the flour; add the yeast cake dissolved 
in }^ cup of lukewarm water. Let it rise in a warm place until 
double. Add the rest of the milk and flour enough to make the 
same sort of a batter. Again keep it warm and let it rise until 
double. Now cream the butter and sugar and combine with the 
egg, well beaten. Add this mixture to the light batter with the 

216 



CAKES 

fruit and salt. It may be necessary to add a little more flour. 
The batter should be thin enough to take the form of the mold 
easily. Fill the molds yi full of batter and let it rise a little more 
than double. Bake 30 minutes, in a moderate oven. When done, 
prepare a sauce with 1 pt. sugar, 1 pt. water, and flavoring, boiling 
together 5 minutes. Pour over the cakes and serve hot or cold. 
Sauce must be poured over while warm. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FRUIT CAKE, No. 2 

V2 lb. walnuts 2 tbsp. butter 

Vi lb. almonds 2 eggs 

Vi lb. candied cherries V^ cup milk 

1 lb. dates 2 tsp, baking powder 

1 cup sugar IV2 cups flour 

A pinch of salt 

Put walnuts, almonds, cherries and dates in whole; blanch 
almonds, rinse cherries in water, flour dates. Bake 1 hour and 
20 minutes. Mrs. William E. Banner 

FRUIT LAYER CAKE, No. 3 

IV^ cups sugar Yolks of 4 eggs 

1 cup butter 2 cups flour 

% cup milk 2 tsp. vanilla 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Bake 2 layers, and in remaining batter stir: 

1 cup raisins 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup currants V4 tsp. cloves 

Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

Whites of 10 eggs 1 lb. citron 

1 lb. granulated sugar 1 lb. paper-shell almonds 

V2 lb. flour 1 cocoanut, grated 

1/2 lb. butter 

Cream butter and sugar, then stir in cocoanut, then flour, 
nuts, citron and last white of eggs. Miss Eva Hoover 

217 



THE MODERN CLUB 



FRUIT OR BLACK CAKE 
(Mary D. W. Randolph) 

1 Vi lbs. butter 2 tsp. cinnamon 

1 lb. sugar 1 tsp. mace and cloves mixed 

1 lb. flour 13 eggs 

1 lb. citron 3 lbs. raisins, seeded and chopped 

1 grated nutmeg 2 lbs. currants 

Beat butter and sugar thoroughly, then stir in ^ lb. flour, 
beat the eggs very light, which add gradually, then the remainder 
of the flour, half at a time. After beating well, add spices. Mix 
all the fruit together and add one-third of it at a time. Beat well. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. L. H. Richards 



FRUIT LAYER CAKE 

1 y-i cups sugar Yolks of 4 eggs 

1 cup butter 2 cups flour 

% cup milk 2 tsp. vanilla 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Bake two layers, and in remaining batter stir 

1 cup raisins 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup currants 14 tsp. cloves 

Mrs. Edward Cadwallader 



GRANDMOTHER LEVIS' FRUIT CAKE 

V2 lb. butter V2 lb. raisins 

V2 lb. flour V2 lb. currants 

1 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. spices (nutmeg and cinnamon) 

1 tbsp. finely cut orange peel V2 lb. sugar 

1 tbsp. finely cut lemon peel 5 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs, well beaten. Add flour 
with baking powder mixed in. Add orange and lemon peels, 
then raisins and currants (previously rubbed in flour to clean them). 
Add spices. Cover with brown paper and bake in a slow oven for 
3 hours. 

Mrs. Arthur L. Bunting 
218 



CAKES 



STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 



2 cups pastry flour Vi cup shortening 

V2 cup cornstarch 1 cup milk 

4 level tsp. baking powder 2 baskets strawberries 

yz tsp. salt 2 cups sugar 

Sift together the dry ingredients ; with two knives cut in the 
shortening, use the milk in mixing to a soft dough; the dough 
should be too moist to knead. Press the dough into two well- 
buttered layer-cake pans. Bake about 15 minutes. Hull, wash 
and drain the berries, reserve a few choice berries for a garnish, cut 
the others in halves, mix with the sugar and let stand tmtil the 
cake is ready. Spread the cakes with butter. Put the cakes 
together with the prepared berries between and above. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE A LA MODE 

Make a strawberry shortcake with biscuit crust. Make a 
sauce of 1 cup strawberry juice, ^ cup melted butter, and pow- 
dered sugar to taste. Serve this with the shortcake, passing it to 
each person. Alice L. Van Lennep 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS 

With two teaspoons shape chou paste on a buttered baking- 
dish in strips 4 inches long and 1 inch wide. Bake in an oven, hot 
on the bottom, about 25 minutes. When cold, slit each cake on 
one side and put in a spoonful of English cream. Cover the smooth 
side of each cake with confectioners' frosting made with chocolate 
and flavored with y^ tsp. of vanilla. 

CHOU PASTE 

1 cup boiling water 1 level cup flour 

yi cup butter or other shortening 3 large eggs 

Heat the water and shortening to the boiling point, sift in the 
flour, stir and cook until the mixture forms a smooth mass that 
does not stick to the pan. Turn into an earthen bowl; break in 
one of the eggs and beat until smooth; beat in the other eggs, 
one at a time, beating each time until smooth and light. 

219 



THE MODERN CLUB 



ENGLISH CREAM FILLING 
V2 cup flour IV^ cups hot milk 

y^ level tsp. salt 2 eggs or 1 whole egg and 2 yolks 

V2 cup cold milk y^ cup sugar 

1/2 tsp. vanilla extract 

Mix the flour, salt and cold milk to a smooth paste and stir 
into the hot milk in a double boiler; continue to stir until the mix- 
ture thickens; cover and let cook 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Beat the eggs, beat in the sugar, and stir into the hot mixture; 
cover and let cook 5 minutes or until the egg is set, stirring once 
or twice. When cold, add the extract and use. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

1 cup milk 5 tbsp. butter 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 small nutmeg, grated 

Flour enough to roll as soft as possible 

Cook in boiling lard. 

POINTS ON FRYING DOUGHNUTS 
To prevent large cracks in doughnuts when frying, have the 
dough soft, turn the cakes as soon as they come to the top of the 
fat and often during the cooking. Too much flour makes dry, 
hard doughnuts. 

The choicest results in color and texture of doughnuts are 
secured with fat that has not been previously used for frying. 
After repeated fryings, fat should be discarded for all cooking 
purposes. The life of fat is lengthened by passing it through a nap- 
kin laid over a strainer after each use; by this means flour and 
other foreign substances that bum and become black at a much 
lower degree of heat than fat, are removed. 

An extra yolk of egg will furnish fat enough to do away with 
the addition of butter or other form of fat to a doughnut mixture. 

Contributed 

SALVATION ARMY DOUGHNUTS 

5 cups flour (more if necessary) 1 tsp. salt 

2 cups sugar 2 eggs 

5 level tsp. baking powder xy^ cups milk 

1 tbsp. lard 
220 



^ CAKES 

These ingredients are sufficient to make 4 dozen doughnuts. 
Captains V. Booth and A. McAllister 

CRULLERS 

IV4 cups sugar 5 tbsp. butter 

1 cup milk 4 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. salt Flour enough to make dough easy 

2 eggs ^^ handle 

Roll out y^ inch thick and fry in deep fat. 

Mrs. Herbert Fox 

FROSTING, No. 1 

White of 1 egg 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 cup powdered sugar 

Put the unbeaten white of the egg into a bowl, add the sugar 
in small quantities, beating with a spoon. When all has been 
added, stir in the lemon juice. For chocolate frosting, omit the 
lemon and add melted chocolate and }4 tsp. vanilla. 

Contributed 

FROSTING, No. 2 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tbsp. boiling water 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 

Stir the boiling water into the sugar and add the lemon juice. 
If too stiff, add a little more boiling water. Melted chocolate may 
be added to it instead of the lemon. Chocolate may be melted in 
a bowl over steam. Contributed 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING 

Whites of 3 eggs 3 cups confectioners' sugar 

3 tsp. lemon juice 

Put the eggs in a large bowl. Add 1 tbsp. sugar and beat 5 
minutes. Repeat until the mixture begins to thicken, then add the 
lemon juice. Continue to add sugar until the frosting will not run 
together when cut with a knife. Spread a thin layer of frosting 
on the cake and, when dry, cover with a layer J4 inch thick. When 

221 



THE MODERN CLUB 



firm, mark it for cutting. Add sugar more rapidly to the remainder 
of the frosting until it begins to harden on the spoon and bowl. 
Put a confectioners' tube into the end of a pastry bag. Partially 
fill the bag with frosting, twist the end tightly, and press the frost- 
ing through in the desired design. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BOILED FROSTING 

1 cup sugar Vs cup boiling water 

White of 1 egg 

Boil the sugar and water together until the syrup threads. 
Cool slightly and pour gradually on the beaten white. Beat until 
cold, then spread on cake. Cooked frostings may be spread on 
hot or cold cakes, and uncooked frostings on cakes slightly warm. 
Frostings made with boiling water should be used on cold cakes. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ICING FOR A CAKE 

2 squares of chocolate y^ cup milk 

1 cup brown sugar Small piece of butter 

Let boil for 10 minutes. Miss M. A. Leas 

CAKE ICING 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup cream 

1 cup white sugar Piece of butter size of egg 

Boil all together until it spins a thread, then beat until ready 
to go on cake. Mrs. C. H. Landenberger, Jr. 

CHOCOLATE ROCKS 

% cup butter 2 tbsp. milk 

Va cup Crisco 1 tsp. soda 

11/2 cups brown sugar 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

2 eggs 1 tsp. cinnamon 
V2 cup English walnuts (grotmd) 2 tsp. cocoa 

% cup dates 1 tsp. vanilla 

34 cup raisins 2V2 cups flour 

Bake in hot oven. Miss Alice L. Van Lennep 

222 



CAKES 

CONDES 

Whites of 2 eggs 2 oz. almonds 

% cup powdered sugar Puff paste 

Beat the eggs until stiff; add the sugar gradually, then the 
ahnonds, which have been blanched and chopped fine. Roll the 
paste }4 inch thick. Cut in strips 3}4 inches long and 1 inch wide. 
Spread the mixture on each strip to within ^ inch of the edge. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake 15 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

COOKIES 

lYs lbs. butter 1 lb. sugar 

1 lb. flour 2 eggs 

Pinch of salt 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg, salt and flour. Make in 
long, rolls on floured platter and stand in ice-box over night. In 
the morning cut very thin with a knife and brush with egg white 
and dust with sugar. Mrs. Herbert Fox 

COOKIES 

5 oz. butter 1 egg 

7 oz. pulverized sugar 14 nutmeg grated, or cinnamon if 

8 oz. flour preferred 

V4 tsp. salt 

Beat the egg without separating and stir it into the creamed 
butter and sugar, add the nutmeg and salt, then the flour. Turn 
into a small bowl and stand in the refrigerator for 3 or 4 hours, 
or until the next day if more convenient, when they will roll out 
very thin. Bake in a quick oven until a light brown. 

Mrs. James F. Magee, Jr. 

COOKIES 

2 cups granulated sugar Nutmeg 

1 cup shortening (lard and butter 1 tsp. lemon ejrtract 

or all lard) 5 cups flour 

3 eggs 1 tsp. soda (in sour cream) 

1 cup sour cream or sour milk 1 tsp. baking powder (in flour) 

Salt 

Dropped with a teaspoon on floured tins. Makes 5 dozen. 

Mrs. Walter Wilhelm. 
223 



THE MODERN CLUB 



KARRIE'S KOOKIES 

Sold by American Red Cross Auxiliary 84. 

1/2 cup melted lard y-i c«p raisins 

1 cup brown sugar V2 cup nuts 

V2 cup milk y-i tsp. salt 

1 egg Vanilla 

IV2 cups flour or substitute ly-i tsp. baking powder 

' 2 squares melted chocolate 

Drop on buttered tins. Mrs. E. Pusey Passmore 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

1 cup sugar xy^ tsp. baking powder 

1 tbsp. butter \yi tsp. almond extract 

2 eggs 2 1/2 cups rolled oats 

Cream butter and sugar, add well-beaten eggs and almond 
extract. Then add rolled oats and baking powder. Drop on 
greased pans about ^ tsp. of mixture far enough apart so cakes 
do not run together. Bake in rather quick oven. 

Mrs. D. H. Cantrell 

SUGAR COOKIES 

2 cups sugar 1 cup butter 

2 eggs 1/2 cup cornstarch 

1 tsp. soda 

Mrs. a. Reed McIntire 

SUGAR COOKIES 

y^ cup butter 1 egg 

1 cup sugar V2 tsp. baking powder 

V^ cup milk Flour to roll thin 

Flavoring 

Roll a little at a time. Cut out. Bake about 10 minutes. 
They may be flavored with vanilla, lemon or cinnamon, using 1 
tsp. Any cake recipe with butter may be used for cookies, adding 
flour to it so as to roll thin. Contributed 

JUMBLES, No. 1 

1 cup sugar 1 egg, beaten whole 

1 cup butter iy2 cups sifted flour 

Cream sugar and butter, add egg, then slowly add sifted flour. 
Flavor and drop from teaspoon on baking-tins. Bake in quick 
oven. Contributed 

224 



CAKES 

JUMBLES, No. 2 

y-i lb. butter 2 eggs 

14 lb. sugar Vs nutmeg 

1/2 lb. flour 

Sift the spice with the flour. Cream the butter ; add the sugar 
gradually. Add the eggs unbeaten and stir until light. Add the 
flour slowly and mix well. Place the dough on a smooth baking 
sheet, using 1 tsp. for each jumble. Bake in a moderate oven 
until the edges are a delicate brown. Remove from the sheet as 
soon as they are taken from the oven. Contributed 

MERINGUE GLACE 

Whites of 4 eggs iVi cups powdered sugar or 1 cup 

Vi tsp. vanilla fine granulated sugar 

Beat the whites until stiff, add gradually two-thirds of sugar, 
and continue beating until the mixture will hold its shape; fold 
in remaining sugar and add flavoring. Shape with a spoon or 
pastry bag and tube on wet board covered with letter paper. Bake 
30 minutes in slow oven, remove from paper, and put in pairs 
together, or if intending to fill with whipped cream or ice cream, 
remove soft part with spoon and place meringues in oven to dxy. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

COCOANUT MACAROONS 

Whites of 2 eggs 1/2 cup pulverized sugar 

2 cups shredded cocoanut 

Beat the sugar slowly into the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 
Drop from teaspoon in buttered tins. Bake about 30 minutes in 
a moderate Oven. Mrs. Harold DeLancey Downs 

MACAROONS 

Whites of 2 eggs iVi cups almond powder 

Mix the almond powder gradually with unbeaten whites of 
the eggs. The mixture should be stiff enough to look somewhat 
rough. If not sufficiently thick, more powder must be added. 
Cover baking-sheets with unbuttered paper. Drop the macaroon 
mixture on the paper, allowing 1 tsp. for each macaroon. Bake 

225 



THE MODERN CLUB 



in a very slow oven for 15 minutes, or until a delicate brown. The 
time should not exceed 20 minutes. 

When done, remove the sheet of paper and turn it upside 
down on a cake-cooler. Moisten the paper on the under side and 
remove the macaroons, or the paper may be laid on a wet board 
and allowed to stand until they can be removed. When cool, 
place in a tin box or a Mason jar. Contributed 

SPONGE FINGERS 

Whites of 3 eggs Vs cup flour 

Va cup powdered sugar -^ tsp. salt 

Yolks of 2 eggs Vi tsp. vanilla 

Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff and dry, add sugar 
gradually, and continue beating; add yolks of eggs, beaten until 
thick and lemon colored, then the vanilla. Fold in the flour, 
which has been sifted with the salt. Put mixture into a pastry- 
bag and shape 4}4 inches long and 1 inch wide on a tin sheet, 
covered with unbuffered paper. Sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and bake 8 minutes in a moderate oven. Remove from the paper 
with a knife. Contributed 

FILLING FOR CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 tsp. granulated gelatin Vs cup powdered sugar 

Vi cup cold water 11/2 tsp. vanilla 

Va cup scalded cream 3y2 cups whipped cream 

Soak gelatin in the cold water, dissolve in the cream, strain 
into a bowl ; add sugar and vanilla. Place bowl in iced water and 
stir constantly and as it thickens fold in whipped cream, not all 
at once but one-third at a time. Should the mixture harden too 
quickly, melt over hot water, and again cool by stirring, then add 
the remaining whipped cream. Serve in center of one large dish 
lined with lady fingers or individual dishes lined with lady fingers. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ROLLED ALMOND WAFERS 

Vi cup butter V2 tsp. vanilla 

Vz cup powdered sugar Vi cup milk 

>i cup bread flour ^ cup finely chopped almonds 

Cream the butter, add the sugar graduall}^; then the milk, 
little by little. Add the flour and flavoring. Spread the mixture 

226 



CAKES 

very thinly on buttered baking-sheets. Use a spatula or thin knife 
for the purpose. Sprinkle well with chopped almonds. Mark in 
3 -inch squares and bake very slowly until a delicate brown. Draw 
the pan to the door of the oven, separate the squares, turn them 
upside down, and roll them quickly in cylinder or cornucopia form. 
If in cornucopia form, they may be filled with sweetened and 
flavored whipped cream. Contributed 

CREAM PUFFS 

1 cup hot water lYz cups pastry flour 
1/2 cup butter 5 eggs 

Heat the butter and water until the water boils. Add the 
flour all at once and mix thoroughly. Cook 5 minutes, and when 
cool add the eggs unbeaten and one at a time. Beat until thor- 
oughly mixed. Drop by tablespoon on buttered baking-sheets and 
bake in a moderate oven 25 or 30 minutes. When cold make an 
opening with a round pastry tube and fill with cream. 

CREAM FILLING 

V3 cup flour }4 cup sugar 

2 cups scalded milk V^ tsp. salt 

2 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla 

iVz tsp. butter 

Moisten the flour with a little cold milk, add this to the hot 
milk. Cook 15 minutes in double boiler. Beat the eggs, sugar and 
salt together. Add to them the hot liquid and butter, return to 
double boiler and cook until the egg thickens. Remove from the 
fire; when cool add flavoring. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

PLUNKETS 

5 oz. butter 4^/2 oz. cornstarch 

6 oz. pulverized sugar 1 oz. flour 

3 eggs Pinch of mace 

Beat butter and eggs until light, add sugar, beat to cream; 
put eggs in separately, beating a few minutes between each one, 
then flour, cornstarch and mace. Bake in quick oven in small tins. 

Miss Marian L. Haines 
227 



THE MODERN CLUB 



HERMITS 

2 cups sugar y^ lb. English walnuts 

1 cup butter 1 teacup seedless raisins 

3 eggs, well beaten 2 tsp. cinnamon 
y-i cup sour milk Vi tsp. cloves 

1 level tsp. soda 3 cups flour 

Vz lb. figs 3 tsp. vanilla 

Cream sugar and butter, add eggs. Add soda to sour milk. 
Now chop figs, walnuts and raisins, mix cinnamon, cloves, flour 
and vanilla with this. Drop this batter, using a teaspoonful at a 
time, on well-larded baking-tins, 2 inches or so apart, and bake 
until light brown only. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

SAND TARTS 

1 lb. sugar V2 lb. butter 

Yolks of 3 eggs Whites of 2 eggs 

Flour enough for thick paste 

Roll thin and cut. Bake, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon 
while hot. Mrs. F. R. Savidge 



ROCKS 

1 scant cup butter Vz tsp. soda 

IV2 cups white sugar 1 lb. English walnuts, broken up 

3 eggs IV2 cups seeded raisins, cut up 

1 tsp. cinnamon 3 cups sifted flour 

Cream butter and sugar, then well-beaten yolks of eggs, 
cinnamon, then soda mixed in a little hot water, then add flour 
and well-beaten whites; last, nuts and raisins well floured with a 
portion of the 3 cups. Drop from teaspoon on greased pan a dis- 
tance apart and bake in a brisk oven. 

Mrs. William E. Banner 



CINNAMON BUN 

Butter size of egg 2 cups flour before sifting 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

1 egg Cinnamon 

3 tsp. baking powder Brown sugar 

228 



CAKES 

Cream butter and sugar, then drop in egg and beat well; 
add baking powder, flour and milk. Put in pan. Put melted 
butter on top and then cinnamon and brown sugar mixed, and 
bake. Mrs. William E. Banner 

CINNAMON BUNS 

1 cup warm milk 4 egg yolks or 2 whole eggs 

1 tsp. salt y^ cup butter 

Vi cup sugar 4 tbsp. cinnamon 

1 tbsp. butter 2V^ cups brown sugar 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 cup currants (if desired) 

Flour to make a soft dough Molasses 

Beat the milk, salt, sugar, butter, yeast and flour thoroughly. 
When the dough has risen add the beaten yolks of 4 eggs or 2 whole 
eggs, and flour enough to roll the mixture into a sheet % in. thick. 
Spread with >^ cup butter, and sprinkle thickly with cinnamon, 
brown sugar and currants if desired. Roll the dough as in making 
jelly roll, and cut it into slices 2 inches deep. Place the slices close 
together in a baking-pan with the cut surfaces up and down. 
When risen to twice their former size, bake in a moderate oven; 
just before putting into the oven brush the tops with molasses. 

Mrs. Norman vS. Essig 

VERY SIMPLE DUTCH CAKE 

Butter size of an egg 1 cup milk 

1 egg 2 tsp. baking powder 
Vi cup sugar 2 cups flour 

Spread sugar and cinnamon on top and sprinkle lightly with 
water. This quantity fills two round cake-tins. Cut like a pie 
and serve hot. Mrs. Charles G. Hodge 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

2 cups dry oatmeal 2 tsp. ground ciimamon 
2 cups sifted flour 2 tsp. ground nutmeg 

1 cup milk Vi tsp. ground cloves 

1 cup butter and lard (equal parts) Vi tsp. salt 

1 lb. brown sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs 1 pkg. seeded raisins 

Mix together the oatmeal, flour, spices, raisins, salt and baking 
powder. Cream the butter, lard and sugar. Add the eggs (un- 

229 



THE MODERN CLUB 



beaten). Beat this well and add milk and stir mixture into dry 
ingredients. Drop into pans and smooth out to about % inch thick. 
Bake from 10 to 20 minutes in moderate oven. Leave in whole 
sheet or cut as little as possible before putting away. Place wax 
paper between layers if necessary to cut. Cut in small squares 
to serve. Mrs. Charles G. Hodge 

MERINGUES 

y-i lb. granulated sugar Whites of 4 eggs 

Beat the whites stiff, add the sugar a little at a time. Bake 
45 minutes in a moderate oven on lard-prepared fiat pans. About 
a tablespoonful of the mixture for each meringue. 

Miss Irene C. Eisenbrey 

WALNUT KISSES 

1 lb. sugar Pinch of cream of tartar 

6 eggs (whites only) 1 pt. walnuts (chopped fine) 

1 tbsp. flour (more if needed) 

Drop from teaspoon on wax papers. They are very hard to 
lift from the pans if not on paper. Bake in moderate oven until 
golden brown. Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

BROWN SUGAR HERMITS 

1 cup brown sugar V2 tsp. cinnamon 

Vz cup shortening V4 tsp. clove 

1 egg creamed all together Little salt 

Va cup sour milk V2 cup raisins, chopped 

V2 tsp. soda Flour to roll not very stiff 

Cream sugar, shortening and egg together. Add other ingre- 
dients. Shape in small cookies and bake. 

Mrs. G. a. Van Lennep 

HERMITS 

xy-i cups brown sugar 1 tsp. soda dissolved in boiling 
1 scant cup butter water 

2V2 cups flour 1 cup seeded raisins (chopped) 

3 well-beaten eggs 1 cup walnuts (chopped and salted) 

Drop in small spoonfuls on buttered tins and bake in a 
moderate oven. Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

230 



PASTRY, PIES AND PUDDINGS 

The pie is an English institution, which, planted on American soil, forthwith 
ran rampant, and burst forth into an untold variety of genera and species. — 
H. B. Stowe. 



I 



PASTRY 



GENERAL RULES FOR PASTRY 



All the materials must be as cool as possible. Pastry flour 
should be used. The following fats may be used alone or in combi- 
nation of two: butter, butterine, lard, cottolene, beef drippings. 
The fat should not be cut very fine if a flaky crust is desired. Bak- 
ing powder is sometimes used. The dough should be mixed with 
a knife and not touched with the hands. It should be rolled in one 
direction only, and on one side, using but little flour. The dough 
is rolled thin and baked until brown. 

All pies made with fresh fruit should be made without an under 
crust. If sugar is used with fruit it should be placed on the bottom 
of the pie-plate. The crust should be cut in several places to allo\t 
the steam to escape. If an undercrust is used, this crust should be 
baked on the outside of a tin plate, then filled. In this case the 
crust must be pricked all over so as to keep its shape. If two crusts 
are ased, the lower one should be moistened around the edge with 
cold water, then a half-inch strip of paste should be placed around 
the edge of the under crust. This strip should be moistened, and 
the upper crust placed over the pie and pressed slightly around 
the edge. The paste may be made the day before using, then 
covered and placed on ice. It rolls more easily if placed on ice 
after mixing. Contributed 

PLAIN PASTRY 

IV4 cup pastry flour Vi tsp. salt 

\4 tsp. baking powder (if used) Va or V2 cup fat 

Ice water 

Mix in order given. Contributed 

PATTY SHELLS 

Roll puff paste y^, inch thick. Cut with a patty cutter and 
remove the centers from one-half the round with a small cutter 
Dampen the rounds near the edges and fit a ring on each, pressing 
lightly. Place in a towel between two pans of ice and chill the 
paste until stiff. In cold weather it may be chilled out of doors. 

Place the patties on a baking-sheet covered with two thick- 
nesses of brown paper and bake in a hot oven for about 25 minutes, 

235 



THE MODERN CLUB 



They should rise to full height and begin to brown in 12 or 15 
minutes. The pieces cut from the rings may be baked and used 
for patty covers. When the patty shells are baked, remove the 
soft inside with a fork. 

Contributed 

CREAM HORNS 

Roll puff paste in a long narrow strip }i inch thick. Cut in 
strips 1 inch wide and 15 inches long. Roll the strips over wooden 
or metal cones, beginning at the top and having the edges overlap. 
Bake in a hot oven until a delicate brown. Remove from the oven 
and brush over with white of egg, slightly beaten, and mixed with 
1 tsp. cold water. Sprinkle with sugar, return to the oven, and 
brown. Loosen at the end and slip the cones from the forms. 

When cold, fill with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. 

Contributed 

SPANISH QUINCE PIE 

Line a deep plate with puff paste and bake until brown. 
Fill with a layer of quince marmalade, quite thick, cover with 
whipped cream that has been flavored with a little and sweetened 
with powdered sugar, and decorate the top with preserved cherries, 
angelica or citron. Serve very cold, 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

APPLE PIE 

Wipe and cut tart apples into eighths; remove the core and 
skins. Vary the amount of sugar according to the acidity of the 
apples, using from 1 to 3 tbsp. for 1 apple. If the apples are not 
juicy, add from >^ to 1 tbsp. water according to the size of the 
apple. The apples may be flavored with lemon juice and lemon 
rind, cinnamon or nutmeg, and should be covered with bits of 
butter. 

Place a narrow strip of paste around the edge of the plate, 
add the fruit and flavoring, and place the upper crust over all. 

Bake in a hot oven until the apples are soft and crust is brown, 

Mrs. Charles G. Hodge 
236 



PIES 



LEMON PIE, No. 1 



1 large or 2 small lemons (remove Yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten 

seeds, squeeze out contents, 1 teacup sugar 

grate one-half rind) Vs teacup milk or cream 

Yz tbsp. butter 

Mix well, put in pastry and bake; when done take out and 
cool a little. Whites of 3 eggs beaten to a froth, then beat in 3 
heaping tbsp. of sugar until stiff; spread on top of pie. Put in oven 
for a minute or so until brown. 

PASTRY FOR ABOVE PIE 

1 pt. flour Pinch of salt, and mix with a little 

2 tbsp. lard ice water 

Miss Dorothy Helm Martin 

LEMON PIE, No. 2 

1 egg 2 tbsp. flour 

1 cup sugar Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

1 cup cold water 

Beat the yolk of the egg until light, add the sugar and flour 
gradually, then the juice and rind of the lemon. Mix thoroughly 
and add the cold water. Cook until like a thick custard, stirring 
constantly. When the mixture is cool, place it in a crust which 
has been baked. Cover it with a meringue made by beating the 
white of the egg and adding 1 tbsp. powdered sugar to it. Bake 
until a delicate brown. Contributed 

LEMON PIE, No. 3 

3 cups boiling water Juice and rind of 1 lemon 
1 tbsp, butter 1 tbsp, cornstarch 

1 cup sugar 4 eggs 

V2 cup sugar 

Put the boiling water, butter, sugar, juice and rind of lemon 
in a double boiler. Mix in a bowl the cornstarch and yolks of eggs. 
Add to first mixture and stir until it thickens. Let cool, and put 
into a baked pie crust. Beat the whites of eggs with the sugar, 
very stiff, and cover pie. Brown in the oven. 

Miss|M. W. Lovell 
237 



THE MODERN CLUB 



LEMON MERINGUE PIE, No. 4 

1 cup sugar V2 cup milk 

1 tsp. butter 2 tsp. cornstarch 

3 eggs 2 lemons 

Beat together the sugar, butter and yolks of 3 eggs and white 
of 1. Let the milk boil, then add cornstarch, boil a minute or two. 
When cool put with the other mixture, add juice of 2 lemons and 
rind of 1. This makes one pie. 

Miss Marian L. Haines 

PASTRY 

1 cup flour 1 tsp. salt 

V2 cup lard Ice water to make a paste 

Mix in a cool place with a knife and roll quickly. 

LEMON PIE, No. 5 

Grated rind of 1 lemon V2 cup sugar 

Yolks of 3 eggs Pinch of salt 

4 tbsp. boiling water 

Beat together and cook to a thin custard. Beat white of 
eggs to a stiff froth, adding sugar gradually. Pour custard into 
this and beat well. Bake crust, then add filling and put in oven 
to set and lightly brown. 

Mrs. Willoughby F. Richardson 

MERINGUE 

Beat the whites of two eggs until stiff, add pulverized sugar 
until sweet enough. When the pie is cool, spread this on the top 
and brown (slightly) in a quick oven. 

Miss Marian L. Haines 

WASHINGTON PIE 

1 tbsp. butter Va cup milk 

1 cup sugar IV2 cups sifted flour 

3 eggs (beaten separately) 1 large tsp. baking powder 

This will make 2 pies. When cold, split with sharp knife and 
spread with the following cream : 

238 



PIES 

1 pt. milk 1 cup sugar 

Vz cup flour Vi lb. Baker's chocolate 

2 eggs Vanilla 

Heat milk in double boiler, add well-beaten eggs to which 
have been added flour and sugar. Stir until it thickens, then add 
melted chocolate and flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. E. G. Piper 

RAISIN PIE 

1 cup sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 

y-i cup butter 3 eggs (reserve whites of 2 for top) 

1 cup chopped raisins Pinch of salt 

Juice of 1 lemon 

Line mufiin tins with pie crust, fill, add beaten whites on 
top and bake. Evelyn Merwin 

NUT MINCE PIE 

Make the pastry for mince pie in the usual fashion, line the 
plates with it and fill with nut mincemeat, which is made thus: 

1 cup chopped walnut meats V^ cup molasses 

1 cup dark corn syrup 1/2 cup fruit juice 

1/2 cup vinegar 1 tsp. allspice 

1 cup seeded raisins 1 tsp. cinnamon 

2 cups chopped apples 1 tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. salt 

Mix in the order named. This quantity will make 2 large 
pies. The Epicure, Boston 

ENGLISH MINCE MEAT 

5 lbs. currants Vz tsp. cinnamon 

2 lbs. seedless raisins 5 lbs. suet 

3 lbs. raisins, seeded 5 lbs. apples 
5 lbs. brown sugar 4 lbs. citron 

y^ tsp. mace IV2 lbs. blanched almonds 

Have the suet, apples, citron and almonds chopped finely. 
Mix suet, apples, raisins, currants, citron and sugar and cook 
slowly for xyi hours. Then add the spices and almonds. 

Mince pies are always baked with both top and bottom crusts. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
239 



THE MODERN CLUB 



PUMPKIN PIE 

Slowly bake the pumpkin in oven, then scrape out soft 
pumpkin ready for mixture. 

IV2 cups pumpkin V2 tsp. salt 

% cup brown sugar 2 eggs 

1 tsp. cinnamon V/z cups milk 

V2 tsp. ginger IV2 cups cream 

Mix pumpkin, sugar, cinnamon, ginger and salt in the order 
given. Then add well-beaten eggs, milk and cream. Bake in 1 
crust. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

TARTS 

Roll puff paste ys inch thick and cut in 3-inch squares. 
Moisten each comer and fold it nearly to the center, pressing 
lightly. Bake on a sheet covered with paper. When cold, press 
down the centers and fill with jelly or jam. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

DATE TARTE 

4 eggs 4 tbsp. milk 

1 cup powdered sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

4 tbsp. flour 1 lb. chopped dates 

1 cup chopped nuts 

Bake in muffin-tins. Mixture will be very thin before baking. 

Evelyn Merwin 

KRUMMEL TART 

3 eggs 4 large tbsp. fine soft bread crumbs 

V2 cup sugar 1 cup dates 

1 tsp. baking powder 1 cup walnut or pecan meats 

Whipped cream 

Separate the eggs, beat the yolks and sugar to a cream ; add 
baking powder and beat again; add bread crumbs, dates cut in 
small pieces and walnut or pecan meats. Last fold in stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs. Pour this into well-buttered pudding- 
dish and bake in a slow oven about 20 minutes. Let cool to one 
side until cold and serve in glasses, broken up in pieces, with 

240 



PIES 

whipped cream flavored with a dash of grated orange rind, a 
cherry or two on top. Mrs. Robert Kline 

APPLE ROLL 

Make a syrup of y^ cup sugar and 1 cup water. Dice 2 
medium-size apples and cook in syrup. Make rich biscuit dough. 

2 cups flour 1 tbsp. butter 

2 tsp. baking powder Milk enough to make moderately 

1 tbsp. sugar stiff dough 

Roll out and spread with apple, cinnamon and sugar. Roll 
up and cut. Sprinkle top with more sugar, cinnamon and butter. 
Bake brown and serve with cream. 

Mrs. Willis F. Manges 

CHERRY TART 

Have a large, round scalloped "flan" tin, which is a large, 
deep pie-plate of tin with a fluted edge. Line this with good pastry, 
fill with rice or beans, and bake until the crust is done. Have a 
pint of thick sugar syrup, and cook ripe cherries in this until 
tender. Remove the filling from the pastry and line the mold with 
a layer of cream filling such as that used in Boston cream cakes. 
Arrange a layer of cherries over this, and boil down the syrup 
until it will spin a thread, then pour over just enough to coat the 
cherries, and let it cool. Serve very cold, with or without whipped 
cream. Strawberry flan is made in the same fashion. The 
English gooseberry tart is made in exactly the same way, and 
the dishes are the same save for the name — flan being used by 
the French and tart by the English. 

The Epicure, Boston 

FRENCH PORCUPINE 

1/2 lb. butter 6 tbsp. powdered sugar 

5 yolks eggs 4 tbsp. strong cold coffee 

24 lady fingers About a handful of almonds 

Beat butter to a cream, add yolks of eggs, sugar and cold 
coffee, a few drops at a time. Blanch the almonds and cut like 
toothpicks, roast the pieces in 2 tbsp. sugar. Spread cream on a 

241 



THE MODERN CLUB 



dish, then layer of lady fingers, layer of cream, etc. Cover outside 
with cream and stick in almonds as closely as possible. 

Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 

PEACH RINGS (Pudding) 

2 cups flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

1/2 tsp. salt 2 tbsp. shortening 

Milk 

Make a dough of the flour, salt and baking powder; sift 
together and work in shortening, moisten with milk enough to 
hold together. Then roll out about y^ inch thick and cut into 
strips about 6 inches long and 1 inch wide. Place these belts of 
dough around very mellow whole peaches, which have been peeled, 
and press together the ends. 

Now make a sauce of : 

1 cup sugar Grating of nutmeg 

1 heaping tbsp. flour 2V2 cups boiling water 

Bring to a boil. Pour this sauce into a pudding-dish and into 
it place the peach rings. Bake until dough is well done and 
peaches softened. Serve with this same sauce and add as a finish 
either a hard sauce or whipped cream. 

Mrs. Robert E. Kline, Boston 

APPLES A LA BARONNE 

Peel and core well-shaped apples. Fill cavity with equal 
parts of grated lemon peel and granulated sugar. Bake, being 
careful to retain their shape. When ready to serve, fill core with 
jelly. Serve hot or cold and with or without sauce. 

Mrs. H. T. Siddons 

SIMPLE BAKED RICE PUDDING 

Vz cup rice V4 cup sugar 

14 tsp. salt Sprinkling grated nutmeg 

1 qt. or 4 cups hot milk 

Scald the milk. Wash the rice and put it with salt, sugar 
and nutmeg into a buttered baking-dish, and pour on the hot milk. 
Bake it in a moderate oven from 3 to 4 hours, or until the rice is 

242 



PUDDINGS 



thoroughly soft and the pudding is creamy. Stir it with a fork 
every 5 minutes until the last half hour. Then allow the pudding 
to brown. One cup scalded raisins added to the above recipe 
improves the pudding. Miss Mabel A. Leas 

RICE PUDDING 

1/2 cup rice, boiled soft Va box gelatin, soaked in cold water 

I pt. milk uititil dissolved 

4 tbsp. sugar 

Cool in a pan of water. Beat with egg-beater I qt. of cream, 
and stir into it when cool. Add a little chopped cherries and 
raisins and nuts. Serve with rich custard made only with yolks of 
eggs and milk and flavoring to taste. 

Miss M. W. Lovell 

ST. JAMES PUDDING 

1 cup chopped raisins Vz cup shortening (half butter and 

1 cup molasses half lard) 

1 cup sweet milk 1 tsp. soda 

2 tsp. spices 

Flour to stir to as stiff a batter as common cake. Steam 2 

hours. ' 

SAUCE FOR ABOVE 

1 tsp. cornstarch 1 cup sugar 

1/2 cup butter 2 eggs 

Wet cornstarch with water; add ^ cup water and cook until 
thick. Cream together butter and sugar; beat in eggs, whites 
and yolks separately, and add to the cornstarch. Cook 1 minute, 
flavor. Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 

STOCKHOLM PUDDING 

1 lb. almonds 1 lb. macaroons 

11/2 lbs. primes 1 egg 

6 oz. sugar 1 giW miU^ 

34 cup water Whipped cream 

Cook the prunes in a double boiler 3 or 4 hours, then remove 
the stones and cut with knife into small pieces. Wet a pudding 
mold with cold water and put in a layer of prunes, then a layer of 

243 



THE MODERN CLUB 



finely chopped almonds; then a layer of stale macaroon crumbs. 
Repeat until the prunes are used up, having a layer of them to 
finish with. Mix 1 egg with 1 gill of milk and any left-over 
juice, pouring this Hquid over the contents of the mold, using a 
knife-blade to separate the prunes so that the liquid goes all 
through. Cover with greased paper and steam 40 minutes. Serve 
cold, turned out on plate and use whipped cream .sweetened. 
This will serve 10 people and is very rich. 

Mrs. Martin J. Mulkin 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 pt. milk V2 tbsp. cornstarch 
IV2 cups sugar 3 eggs 

2 oz. chocolate 1 tsp. vanilla 

Little salt 

Put milk in double boiler, add sugar and chocolate. After 
these dissolve stir in cornstarch. When it has cooked about 5 
minutes, or until it has thickened, pour in the beaten eggs. 

SAUCE 

1 cup whipped cream 1 tsp. vanilla 

y2 cup powdered sugar 

Serve in glasses with cream on top. 

Mrs. Thomas S. Dando 

GRANDMA'S PUDDING 

1 34 cups bread crumbs Salt and nutmeg to taste 

IV2 cups flour 1V4 cups seedless raisins, chopped 

% cup chopped suet 3^ cup currants 

1 cup milk 1 egg 

1% cups brown sugar 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. black molasses 

Steam 2 hours and serve with a hard sauce. 

Mrs. K. S. Lueders 

SOFT GINGER PUDDING 

V2 cup brown sugar 1 level tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup New Orleans molasses V4 level tsp. cloves 

34 cup shortening (half butter and Salt, nutmeg 

half lard) 1 level tsp. soda dissolved in 1 cup 

Vz level tsp. ginger hot water 

244 



PUDDINGS 



Sift in slowly 2 cups of sifted flour — add 1 beaten egg, bake 
and serve hot with marshmallow whip. 

Mrs. L. K. Holder 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING 

1 lb. currants V4 lb. flour 

1 lb. raisins Vi lb. brown sugar 

V4 lb. candied orange peel 1 grated nutmeg 

Vi lb. citron V4 tsp. allspice 

V2 lb. finely chopped suet 1 tbsp. cinnamon 

Yz lb. stale bread crumbs 8 eggs 
V2 Pt. grape juice 

Wash and dry currants, stone raisins, cut very fine candied 
orange peel and citron and mix together with finely chopped suet, 
bread crumbs, flour, brown sugar, nutmeg, allspice and cinnamon. 
Beat eggs and pour over the dry ingredients, add grape juice, 
mix thoroughly and pack into one large or several small, individual 
molds and steam 6 hours and set away. When wanted to serve, 
steam 2 hours longer and serve with hard sauce. Sprigs of holly 
should be used for the decoration. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

1/^ lb. suet 1 nutmeg 

2V^ lbs. raisins 1 tsp. cloves 

2V2 lbs. currants 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 lb. sugar 6 eggs 

V4 lb. citron 1 qt. milk 

3 pts. flour Salt to taste 

Boil in bag for 6 hours. Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 

PLUM PUDDING 

1 lb. raisins V4 lb. flour 

1 lb. currants Vz lb. brown sugar 

Vi lb. candied orange peel 1 nutmeg, grated 

V4 lb. citron 1 tbsp. cinnamon 

V2 lb. chopped suet Vi tsp. allspice 

Yz lb. stale bread crumbs 8 eggs 

Wash and dry currants. Cut citron and orange peel very fine. 
Stone raisins. Mix all dry ingredients together. Beat eggs. 

245 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Pour them over the dry ingredients and mix thoroughly. Pack 
into greased molds, and boil 6 hours at time of making and 3 
hours when wanted for use. Serve with sauce. 

SAUCE 

Vi cup butter Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar V^ cup milk or cream 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then well-beaten yolks, 
and milk or cream. Cook over hot water until it thickens as a 
custard, pour on the beaten whites. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

BOILED PLUM PUDDING 

1 lb. raisins y^ lb. flour 

1 lb. currants y-i lb. dried bread crumbs 

y^ lb. suet, chopped fine 8 eggs 

1 lb. sugar Nutmeg and allspice to taste 

Milk enough to make a batter 

Steam or boil for 6 hours. When ready to use, steam 4 hours 
longer. This is an old English recipe and very fine. 

Miss Marian L. Haines 

FRUIT PUDDING 

1 pt. flour y\ cup sugar or molasses 

2 tsp. baking powder Vz tsp. nutmeg 
1 tsp. salt V2 cup currants 
4 tbsp. beef suet (finely chopped) 1/2 cup raisins 

If molasses is used, yi cup milk; if sugar is used, ^ cup. 
Put into a well-greased mold or into small molds. If in small 
molds, cook over boiling water for 1^ hours; if in a larger mold, 
cook for 2y2 hours. Contributed 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

1 lb. raisins 5 eggs 

1 lb. suet, chopped fine V2 lb. minced candied orange peel 

34 lb. stale bread crumbs y2 lb. minced candied citron 

1 lb. brown sugar 1 lemon rind, grated 

1 lb. currants 1 lb. grated carrots 

Vi lb. flour V2 tsp. grated nutmeg 

Salt to taste 
246 



PUDDINGS 



Mix all dry ingredients together. Beat eggs and pour 
over dry ingredients, then mix very thoroughly. Pack into 
4 bowls or molds and boil for 6 hours. When ready to serve, boil 
another 6 hours. 

SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING 

4 eggs 1 cup pulverized sugcu- 

Vi cup melted butter 

Add sugar to eggs beaten light; melted butter to taste. 
Just heat a long time and it is ready to serve. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



DELICIOUS SAUCE FOR FIG PUDDING 

(Canned Fig Pudding is splendid) 

1 egg Whipped cream 

Vz cup powdered sugar Vanilla 

Beat white of egg, add powdered sugar and stir, add yolk of 
egg and b^at until light. Add whipped cream. Flavor with vanilla. 
Serve sauce cold. Evelyn Merwin 



CANARY PUDDING (English) 

Flour 2 eggs 

Butter 1 gill milk 

Sugar 1 tsp. baking powder 

Vanilla 

The weight of 2 eggs in flour, butter and sugar. Beat butter 
and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of the eggs and beat well; 
then beat in the flour in which the baking powder and milk have 
been well mixed, beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add to the 
mixture. Flavor with vanilla. Steam 2 hours. 

SAUCE 

Butter ^2 grated nutmeg 

1 tbsp. flour V^ pt. boiling milk 

1 tbsp. sugar 1 egg 

247 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Put in a small saucepan a piece of butter the size of an egg 
and when melted stir in flour, sugar and grated nutmeg. Add 
boiling milk and stir until thick, then add the yolk of egg and 
before sending to table beat the white of egg to a stiff froth and 
stir well in. Mrs. Charles W. Phelps 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

Flour 1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 2 level tsp. baking powder 

1 large tbsp. Crisco V^ cup milk 

Sift in enough flour to make a stiff dough. Flour 1 cup of 
berries and work in with dough. Bake about 20 minutes. This 
makes 18 muffins. 

SAUCE FOR MUFFINS 

One cup sugar to 2 cups of berries. Stew down and thicken 
with 1 tsp. cornstarch. This makes enough sauce for the 18 
mufflns and served this way it makes a most delicious pudding 
dessert. Miss Violette T. Haines 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING, No. 1 

2 cups flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup milk 1 egg 

2 cups huckleberries V2 cup sugar 

Pinch of salt 

Bake 1 hour or boil 2 hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

Mrs. H. T. Siddons 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING, No. 2 

1/2 oz. butter 1 pt. flour 

2V^ cups brown sugar y^ tsp. cinnamon and cloves 

3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten yz tsp. soda, dissolved in hot water 

separately 1 qt. berries 

Bake ^ hour. 

SAUCE 

Butter the size of an egg, beaten together with confectioners' 
sugar. Miss Violette T. Haines 

248 



PUDDINGS 



HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING, No. 3 

2 boxes huckleberries 2 tbsp. baking powder 

5 cups flour 3 eggs 

yz lb. butter 1 cup sugar 

2 cups milk 

Beat eggs and butter to a cream, then add alternately the 
milk and 3 cups of the flour. Now add 2 cups flour to the berries, 
adding baking powder. Grease pan and bake 25 minutes. 

SAUCE 

Vz lb. butter 2 cups powdered sugar 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Stir all to a light cream, flavor to taste with vanilla. This 
will serve 10 people. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

DATE PUDDING, No. 1 

2 cups water 1 cup sliced dates 
1 cup brown or white sugar Whipped cream 

3 tbsp. cornstarch Chopped nuts 

Boil sugar and water 10 minutes, add cornstarch and cook till 
clear, add dates and mold in cups. Serve ice cold with whipped 
cream and chopped nuts. 

Mrs. Edward E. Montgomery 

DATE PUDDING, No. 2 

1 tbsp. butter, beaten with 2 tbsp. sifted flour 

3/4 cup sugar 1 tsp. baking powder 

3 eggs (well beaten) 1 cup chopped dates 

1 cup pecans or walnuts 

Bake 45 minutes in slow oven and serve with whipped cream. 
When baking, place pan in another pan of water. 

Contributed 

DATE AND NUT SOUFFLE 

1 heaping cup dates 1 cup sugar 

1 cup chopped EngUsh walnuts 2 tbsp. flour 

4 eggs 1 tbsp. baking powder 

Salt 
249 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Cut dates fine (with scissors) , flour dates ; add English walnuts, 
yolks of eggs beaten light; beat in sugar, flour (baking powder 
in flour and salt). Fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs and bake 
45 minutes in moderate oven in open-center mold. 

Mrs. G. a. Van Lennep 

PEACH PUDDING 

IV2 measuring-cups flour 1 egg 

V2 cup butter Milk 

1 tsp. baking powder Sugar 

Pinch of salt Cream 

Beat egg in measuring-cup, fill cup with milk to yi cup (egg 
and milk making yi cup). Fill buttered dish with dough, then add 
sliced ripe peaches until the dish is filled, add plenty of butter 
and 4 handfuls of sugar. Bake 1 hour, serve at once with cream. 

Mrs. Brooke M. Albrecht 

PRUNE WHIP 

Va lb. prunes Vz cup sugar 

Whites of 5 eggs V2 tsp. lemon juice 

Soak several hours in cold water, cook in same water until soft, 
stone and rub prunes through strainer, add sugar and cook 5 
minutes. Mixture should be of consistency of marmalade. Beat 
whites of eggs until stiff, add prune mixture slowly when cold 
and lemon juice. Pile in buttered baking-dish and bake 20 minutes 
in slow oven. Serve cold with boiled custard sauce. 

Miss M. W. LOVELL 

PRUNE PUDDING 

% lb. prunes Whites of 4 eggs 

Stewed and sweetened prunes mashed through a colander. 
Whites of eggs beaten. Put in the prunes and beat together. Bake 
20 minutes. Serve with whipped cream. Miss M. W. Lovell 

PRUNE OR PEACH PUDDING 

1 cup prunes or fresh mashed 1 tbsp. gelatin 

peaches Vz cup sugar 

4 eggs (whites) V2 cup cold water 

1/2 cup boiling water 
250 



PUDDINGS 



Soak gelatin in cold water, then add boiling water and stir 
until dissolved. Beat whites of eggs stiff. Add sugar, prunes or 
peaches, then stir in slowly the gelatin, beating constantly. 
Chill and serve with cream. 

Mrs. Norman S, Essig 

CARROT PUDDING 

y-i lb. beef suet V2 tsp. cream of tartar in flour 

y^ lb. grated carrots y-i cup milk 

V^ lb. flour y-2, lb. raisins 

Pinch of salt V2 lb. currants 

y^ tsp. soda Spice to taste 

Boil for 3 hours. Mrs. F. R. Savidge 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE 

1 tbsp. Knox's gelatin V^ cup water 
V2 pt. canned pineapple V2 cup sugar 

2 eggs 

Scald pineapple and sugar to dissolve sugar. Add gelatin 
dissolved in ^ pt. of water. When cool, add well-beaten whites 
of two eggs. Beat until stiff. Use yolks of eggs for rich custard 
for sauce or whipped cream. Mrs. James A. Campbell 

KENSINGTON PUDDING 

\yi cups flour 2 tbsp. jam (strawberry or rasp- 

y\ cup brown sugar berry is best) 

2 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup sweet milk 

Steam 1 hour. Mrs. William E. Banner 

APPLE MfiRINGUE PUDDING 

1 pt. stewed apples 1 tbsp. butter 

3 eggs 2 tbsp. powdered sugar 
1 tsp. nutmeg 1 tsp. almond flavoring 

While the stewed apples are still hot add the spices, which 
have been thoroughly mixed, the butter and well-beaten yolks of 
the eggs. Beat until light and put into a buttered baking-dish 

251 



THE MODERN CLUB 



and cook 10 minutes in a hot oven. Draw from the oven and cover 
with a meringue made with the whites, sugar and flavoring. Brown 
and cool to a moderate heat before serving. Serve with cream. 

Contributed 

APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Prepare the dough for baking-powder biscuits. Roll it out 
with a rolling-pin and cut in squares. Fill the center of each square 
with slices of apple or an apple pared and cored. Very hard apples 
must not be used. Fold the dough over the apples. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



APPLE PUDDING, No. 1 

1 cup suet, chopped fine 2 cups apples, chopped fine 

3 cups grated bread 3 eggs 

1 cup brown sugar 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup molasses Vi tsp. allspice 

1 cup raisins Vz tsp. cloves 

1 cup currants 1 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. soda (in hot water) 

Steam 3 hours. Mrs. Aubrey J. Dando 



STEAMED APPLE PUDDING, No. 2 

2 cups pastry flour ^^ cup sweet milk 

4 tbsp. baking powder 4 apples 

Vz tsp. salt 1 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. butter Grated nutmeg 

Sift pastry flour with baking powder and salt; work butter 
in with the tips of the fingers, and add sweet milk gradually to 
this, mixed in with a knife. It is tossed on a floured board, rolled 
out, and in the center are put 4 apples which have been peeled and 
cut in eighths. Mix sugar with % tsp. each of salt and grated 
nutmeg and sprinkle over the apples, bring the dough up around 
the fruit, and lift the whole carefully into a buttered pudding-mold, 
cover closely and steam for 1 hour and 20 minutes. This may be 
served with vinegar sauce, but better still is thick sweet cream, 
sweetened with scraped maple sugar and flavored with nutmeg or 
whipped cream. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

252 



PUDDINGS 



APPLE SNOW 

2 small apples White of 1 egg 
1 tbsp. sugar Cream 

Cut apples into quarters and remove the cores. Cook them 
with a small amount of water until soft. Drain and rub through 
a fine sieve. Beat the white of the egg, add the sugar gradually, 
and slowly beat in the strained apple. Serve with cream. 

Contributed 

LEMON PUDDING 

3 tbsp. cornstarch 2 lemons (rind and juice) 
Sugar to taste 2 eggs 

Mix cornstarch with cold water, then pour sufficient boiling 
water to turn it and boil for a few minutes; it does not require 
to be very thick. Add sugar to taste, grated rind and juice of 
lemons and eggs (yolks) well beaten. Pour the mixture into a glass 
dish when cool enough. Before sending to table, beat up the whites 
to a stiff froth and spread on top. 

Mrs. C. M. Phelps 



MANHATTAN PUDDING 

4 oranges 1 pt. heavy cream 

2 lemons 1 cup chopped walnut meats 

Mix juice of oranges and lemons and sweeten to taste. Whip 
heavy cream, add walnut meats, sweeten and flavor to taste. Fill 
mold with mixture. Pack in ice and salt and let stand 3 hours. 

Miss M. W. Lovell 

BISCUIT TORTONI 

34 cup granulated sugar 3 eggs 

34 cup water 1 pt. whipping cream 

1 doz. stale macaroons 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a hair. Beat the whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth. Beat yolks and add to whites. Pour the 
syrup slowly into the beaten eggs and beat until cold. Whip 
cream stiff. Add to mixture when sufficiently cold. Be sure to 
add cream slowly so as not to curdle. Roll macaroons to a 

253 



THE MODERN CLUB 



paste, and sprinkle thickly on bottom of greased mold. Put a 
layer of waxed paper; then cover. Bury in salt and ice for 4 
hours. Mrs. Walter D. Banes 

CUSTARD SOUFFLl: 

2 scant tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. flour 1 cup milk 

4 eggs 

Let milk come to a boil. Melt the butter and stir in the flour. 
Add gradually the boiling milk to it. Cook 8 minutes, stirring 
very often. Beat the sugar and yolks of eggs, add and set to cool. 
When cool beat whites of eggs to stiff froth and add. Bake 20 
minutes in a moderate oven and serve immediately with Fairy 
sauce. Mrs. James A. Campbell 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 

1 pt. cream V2 lb. marshmallows 

y-i lb. English walnuts 2 tbsp. maraschino 

2 tbsp. sugar 

Cut marshmallows in quarters with a wet knife, and roll in 
powdered sugar. Chop nuts a little. Whip the cream and mix 
all together. Garnish with maraschino cherries. 

Miss M. W. Lovell 



CARAMEL CREAM 

4 oz. sugar 4 eggs 

1 qt. milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

Put sugar and >^ cup of water in a saucepan and cook until 
it becomes a dark amber color and has the consistency of treacle, 
then pour into a dry charlotte mold; turn the mold round and 
round until it gets completely lined with the caramel. Beat the 
eggs and sugar well and then add the vanilla, add to the boiling 
milk and then pour in the prepared mold. Cover with a buttered 
paper and steam until firm (about 1 hour) , then unmold on a dish. 
Can be served hot or cold. 

Mrs. Walter E. Rahte 
254 



PUDDINGS 



MARMALADE PUDDING 

V4 lb. bread crumbs Vi lb. sugar 

1/4 lb. suet V4 lb. marmalade 

1 egg 

Put the bread crumbs into a basin. Mix them with the finely 
minced suet, add marmalade and sugar. Stir to mix thoroughly. 
Beat the egg to a froth and add to other ingredients. When mixed, 
put pudding in mold or buttered basin; tie down with a floured 
cloth and boil or steam for 2 hours. 

Mrs. a. J. Dando 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

2 cups suet Cimiamon to taste 

2 cups bread crumbs Pinch of cloves 

% cup sugar Pinch of allspice 

1 cup currants 1 heaping tsp. baking powder 

1 cup yellow raisins 3 eggs 

Milk 

Mix well together with small quantity milk, eggs well beaten 
and added last. Butter mold and boil 1 hour. Serve hot with 
hard sauce. Mrs. Thomas P. Hunter 

CHOCOLATE ROLL 

5 eggs V2 cup powdered sugar 

2 tbsp. Baker's cocoa 

Separate yolks and beat until very light, add sugar slowly, 
then cocoa. Beat whites, then add to yolks and beat 15 minutes. 
Turn into a greased pan and bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. 

When baked, turn out or roll in a pan. Wrap in a damp cloth. 
Just a few minutes before serving, unroll and spread thick with 
vanilla ice cream or whipped cream, then roll. Cover with hot 
chocolate sauce, and serve. Mrs. L. P. Leas 

BREAD PUDDING 

iVz cups stale bread 1 egg (beaten light) 

1/4 tsp. salt 1 tsp. vanilla 
1/2 cup sugar or 

2 cups milk Vs tsp. nutmeg 

255 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Put the bread into a buttered baking-dish. Pour on the milk 
and let the bread soak in the milk yi hour; add the sugar, salt, 
beaten egg and flavoring. Set the dish into a pan of hot water 
and cook in a moderate oven until the pudding is firm and brown 
on top (about 35 minutes) ; ]/2 cup of small seedless raisins may be 
added. Serve the pudding plain or with hard sauce. 

Miss Mabel A. Leas 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING, No. 1 

Add to the recipe given above 2 tbsp. cocoa and omit the 
flavoring. Serve the pudding plain or with hard sauce. 

Miss Mabel A. Leas 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING, No. 2 

2 tbsp. Baker's cocoa 2 eggs, beaten separately 

y2 cup sugar 2 cups milk 



V2 cup water Vi cup sugar 

Bread cnrnibs Flavoring 



Make a sauce of the first three ingredients. Fill greased 
pudding-dish half full of bread cnmibs. Mix yolks of eggs, milk, 
sugar and flavoring to chocolate sauce, pour on bread crumbs, add 
bits of butter on top, bake in a pan with water around pudding- 
dish about ^ hour. 

Add meringue, made from whites, put in oven to brown, eat 
warm. Mrs. Robert Kline, Boston 

BREAD PUDDING 

1 pt. prepared crumbs 3 eggs 

Vi tsp. salt 1 pt. milk 

Soak stale bread in cold water 1 hour. Remove the thin brown 
crust and wring the bread in a napkin, then pulverize it with a fork. 
Measure 1 pt. without packing it. Add the salt to the cnraibs. 
Beat the eggs and add them to the milk. Then add the crumbs. 
Mix all with a fork. Bake 1 hour in a well-buttered dish. If a 
sweet liquid sauce is not used, sugar must be added to the pudding. 

Contributed 
256 



PUDDINGS 



SNOW PUDDING 

Vs box gelatin Yolks of 3 eggs 

Vi cup cold water 3 tbsp. sugar 

1 cup boiling water Vs tsp. salt 

1 cup sugar 1 pt. hot milk 
Vi cup lemon juice Va tsp. vanilla 

Whites of 3 eggs 

One-half the quantity can be used as well. Soak the gelatin 
in cold water until soft. Add the boiling water, sugar and lemon 
juice. When the gelatin is dissolved, strain into a large bowl and 
place in ice water to cool. Stir occasionally. Beat the whites of 
the eggs until light, and when the jelly begins to thicken add them 
to it. Beat until smooth and nearly hard, then pour into a mold 
or glass dish. 

Make a soft custard of the remaining ingredients, and when 
cold serve it with the pudding. Contributed 

INDIAN TAPIOCA PUDDING 

4 tbsp. tapioca iVi cups cold milk 

2 tbsp. com meal 1 tsp. butter 

1 tsp. salt' 1 qt. boiling milk 

% cup molasses 

Soak the tapioca until soft in enough warm water to cover it. 
Mix the salt and meal with % cup cold milk, add the butter and 
pour the boiling milk over this mixture ; add the molasses. Pour 
into a buttered baking-dish, place it in the oven and pour 1 cup 
of cold milk over it without stirring. Cover tightly until the last 
hour. Bake 3 hours if possible in moderate heat. 

Contributed 

INDIAN PUDDING, No. 1 

11/2 qts. milk A little salt 

Vi cup granulated cornmeal Molasses 

2 tbsp. molasses Cinnamon 

Heat 1 pt. of milk to boiling point and pour slowly over the 
cornmeal. Add molasses, salt and a little cinnamon. Then add 
1 qt, of cold milk. Pour into buttered baking-dish and bake 2 
hours in a slow oven. Soon after it begins to cook, stir once, but 
do not stir again. Mrs. A. J. Dando 

257 



THE MODERN CLUB 



INDIAN PUDDING, No. 2 

1 qt. hot milk 1 cup molasses 

1 cup com meal 3 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. salt 1 qt. cold milk 

y^ tsp. ginger 

Pour the hot milk over the meal and cook 10 minutes. Add 
the salt, molasses, butter, cold milk and ginger. A few pieces of 
finely chopped preserved ginger may be used instead of the pow- 
dered ginger. Place it in a buttered baking-dish, cover tightly 
and cook in a moderate oven several hours. Remove the cover for 
the last hour. Contributed 

STEAMED CAKE PUDDING 

Use the recipe for plain cake. Prepare in the same manner. 
Put in a carefully buttered mold and steam 1^ hours. Serve with 
sauce. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

RENNET 

1 qt. fresh milk 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. liquid rennet 

Warm the milk, add the sugar and rennet and stir until the 
sugar is dissolved. Pour the mixture into a glass dish and put it 
in a moderately warm place. Sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar, 
and serve with cream. Contributed 

CUP CUSTARDS 

1 qt. milk 1 cup sugar 

4 to 6 eggs Vz tsp. salt 

Nutmeg 

Heat the milk. Beat the eggs, add the sugar and salt. Pour 
on the milk very slowly, constantly stirring; strain. Bake in cups. 
Set the cups in a baking-pan and half fill it with boiling water. 
Bake in a moderate oven. Test with a knife-blade, and when the 
knife comes out smooth and clean they are done. Grate nutmeg 
over each. Contributed 

SOFT CUSTARD 

1 pt. milk 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs Vs tsp. salt and flavoring 

258 



PUDDINGS 



Heat the milk in a double boiler. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
slightly; add to them the sugar and salt. Pour the heated milk 
over the mixture and return to the boiler; stir until it thickens. 
Strain and when cool flavor. This is a good sauce for rice. If a 
thicker custard is desired, use 3 or 4 eggs. The whites beaten to a 
stiff froth, and 2 tbsp. powdered sugar added may be served with 
the custard. If the custard curdles, place the upper part of the 
boiler in a pan of cold water and beat until smooth again, and then 
strain. Contributed 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING 

2 tbsp. pearl tapioca Va cup sugar 

1 pt. milk Vs tsp. salt 

2 eggs y-i tsp. vanilla 

Soak the tapioca in enough hot water to cover it, stirring 
until it absorbs some of the water, then allow it to stand until all 
the water is absorbed; add the milk and cook until the tapioca 
is soft and transparent. Beat the yolk of the eggs, add the sugar 
and salt. Pour the milk over them, cook 3 minutes and then add 
the whites of the eggs. Contributed 

BAVARIAN CREAM, No. 1 

2 tsp. granulated gelatin V2 lemon (juice) 

2 tbsp. cold water 1 cup sugar 

1 cup orange juice 4 eggs 

Mix orange juice, lemon juice, sugar and yolks of eggs; stir 
over hot water until mixture thickens, then pour over the softened 
gelatin, cool and add whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Set in pan of 
ice water and beat until thick enough to hold its shape. Turn into 
a mold lined with sponge fingers, and chill. 

Contributed 

BAVARIAN CREAM, No. 2 

1 pt. rich milk 1 cup sugar 

1 pt. sweet cream 2 tsp. vanilla or other extract 

4 eggs (yolks only) Vi oz. gelatin 

Soak the gelatin 2 hours in enough cold water to cover it. 
Heat the milk and stir in the gelatin, until melted. Pour this 

259 



THE MODERN CLUB 



upon the beaten yolks and sugar, and heat until it begins to thicken. 
It should not boil. Take from fire, flavor and let it cool somewhat. 
The cream should have been whipped stifif. Beat a spoonful at a 
time into the lukewarm custard until it is like sponge-cake batter. 
Pour into a wet mold and set on ice to form. It will be formed in 
a few hours if buried in ice. Miss Marie A. Jones 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

V4 box gelatin 6 sponge fingers 

Vi cup cold water Va cup powdered sugar 

% cup scalded cream 3 cups heavy cream (whipped) 

11/2 tsp. vanilla 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water until soft. Add the hot 
cream, sugar and flavoring. Place the bowl in a pan of ice water 
and stir constantly. When it forms a thick syrup, add the whip 
from the cream, one-third at a time. Cut off the ends of the 
sponge fingers and place them yi inch apart around the sides of a 
mold. The crust side should be out. Fill with the cream. When 
thoroughly chilled, turn out in a glass dish. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CARAMEL CHARLOTTE 

V4 box gelatin V4 tsp. cream of tartar 

Vi cup cold water 1 cup cream 

1 cup sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Vz cup boiling water Whites of 5 eggs 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water. Scald the cream. Cook 
the sugar, boiling water and cream of tartar in a saucepan until 
the liquid becomes a dark brown. Add 2 tbsp. boiling water and 
add the mixture to the hot cream. Pour this mixture over the 
gelatin. Add the vanilla and place the bowl in a pan of ice water. 
Stir constantly until the mixture is of the consistency of thick 
syrup, then add the beaten whites, and beat the mixture until the 
eggs do not separate. Pour into a wet mold and put in a cold place. 

Contributed 

COFFEE CREAM 

Vs box gelatin Vi cup sugar 

V4 cup cold water 1 V2 cups cream or 1 Vi cups rich 
Vz cup strong coffee (filtered) milk 

260 



PUDDINGS 



Soak the gelatin in cold water until soft, then add the hot 
coffee and the sugar. When the gelatin is dissolved, strain into 
an earthen or granite- ware dish. Place in cold water to cool. 
Stir occasionally. When it acquires the consistency of syrup, add 
the cream, either plain or whipped. Stir until it becomes thick, 
but not hard; then pour into a glass dish. Contributed 

EGG CREAM 

2 eggs 2 tbsp. sugar 

y-i lemon (juice and rind) 

Separate the yolks and whites of eggs, and beat the sugar with 
the yolks until well mixed. Beat the whites of the eggs until light. 
Add the lemon to the yolks, and stir slowly over hot water until 
the mixture begins to thicken. Add the whites of the eggs and 
stir until it is like very thick cream. Stir occasionally until cool 
and then serve in a glass dish. Contributed 

CALF'S FOOT JELLY 

4 calves* feet 2 lemons 

4 qts. cold water 2-inch stick cinnamon 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

Wash and split the feet, add the water and cook at a low tem- 
perature until the amount of liquid is reduced one-half. Strain 
through a flannel cloth or a napkin in a sieve. When cold remove 
the fat, add the whites and shells of the eggs, the cinnamon, sugar 
and juice of the lemons. Stir until warm. Cook slowly 15 minutes. 
Skim and strain through a napkin into tumblers. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

COFFEE JELLY 

V2 pkg. gelatin 1% cups boiling water 

yi cup cold water 1/2 cup sugar 

2 cups strong filtered coffee 

Soak the gelatin in cold water until soft. Add the boiling 
water, sugar and cofi;ee. When the sugar is dissolved, strain 
through a napkin into the molds or glasses which have been wet 
with cold water. Serve with cream or whipped cream. 

Contributed 
261 



THE MODERN CLUB 



COFFEE JELLY, No. 2 

3 tbsp. freshly ground coffee 2 tbsp. sugar 

1 pt. cold water Vi oz. gelatin 

Soak the gelatin in a little of the cold water. Make boiled 
coffee with the remainder of the water, allowing it to boil 3 minutes. 
Strain through muslin after it has settled, pour it, while hot, over 
the gelatin. Add the sugar. Strain again through muslin. This 
amount will fill 3 glasses. To be served with cream. 

Contributed 

LEMON JELLY 

1 pkg. gelatin 1 pt. boiling water 

Va cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

% cup lemon juice 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water until soft. Add the boiling 
water, sugar and lemon juice. Strain through a napkin into molds 
or glasses which have been wet in cold water. For orange jelly- 
use the same recipe, using only 1 cup boiling water and 1 pt. orange 
juice with juice of 1 lemon. Contributed 

JELLIED APPLES 

Pare and slice the apples, and fill a quart bowl with alternated 
layers of apples and sugar. Add yi teacup water, and bake 
slowly for three hours. Let it stand until it is cold. It will then 
be a firm jelly. One cup of sugar is enough for 1 qt. of apples. 

Elisabeth Warren Green 



262 



ICES 

The Deacon, not being in the habit of taking his nourishment in the congealed 
state, had treated the ice cream as a pudding of a rare species. — O. W. Holmes. 



ICES 

ICE CREAM 

1 qt. milk 1 level tbsp. flour j 

2 eggs Va tsp. salt 

2 cups sugar 

Put milk in double boiler; when boiling add flour and cook 
about yo hour. Then add this mixtiure to eggs and sugar beaten 
together. Put back in double boiler and cook till eggs coat spoon, 
no longer. 

A good base for any ice cream. 

Mrs. Aubrey J. Dando 

TO MAKE A SMOOTH ICE CREAM 

1 pt. cream 1 cup sugar 

Boil 10 minutes in double boiler. Then add 1 pint cream, 
flavor, chill and freeze. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

PEANUT BRITTLE ICE CREAM 

To 1 qt. of vanilla ice cream mixture add 1 cup of rolled peanut 
brittle and freeze. A good substitute for burnt almond ice cream. 

Mrs. Harold DeLancey Downs 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

1 cup cream 4 tsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. melted chocolate or caramel 

Mix the sugar and cream. Melt the chocolate, add some of 
the cream so that it may be poured into the remainder. Put this 
mixture into a small covered pail and set it inside a larger pail or. 
pan. Beat the cream with an egg-beater until foamy. Fill the 
space between the pails with ice and rock salt, using 3 cups of 
ice to 1 of salt. Turn the small pail until the cream is frozen; 
opening it occasionally to scrape the cream from the sides. It 
will take about 20 minutes to freeze. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

1 qt. cream 1 or IV^ boxes strawberries 

2 cups sugar 
267 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Mash the strawberries, add the sugar. Freeze the cream. 
When not quite hard add the strawberries and sugar. Pack until 
needed. 

Second Method. — Push the mashed strawberries through mus- 
lin, and use only the juice. The sugar may be added to the cream. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

DELMONICO ICE CREAM 

2 cups milk Vs tsp. salt 

34 cup sugar 1 tbsp. vanilla extract 

Yolks of 7 eggs 2V2 cups thin cream 

Make a custard from milk, sugar, the yolks and salt. Cool, 
strain and flavor with vanilla. Whip cream and remove the whip. 
There should be 2 quarts. Add to the custard and freeze, and 
serve with angel cake. The Epicure, Boston 

CHERRY ICE CREAM 

1^/2 lbs. cherries V2 cup cornstarch 

2 lbs. sugar 3 eggs 

3 pts. milk 1 cup whipped cream 

This recipe makes 1 gallon. Wash cherries and remove the 
stones. Place in a saucepan and add 1^ lbs. of sugar. Cook very 
slowly until the cherries are soft. Cool and then rub through a 
coarse sieve. 

Place milk in a saucepan and add cornstarch. Dissolve the 
starch and bring to a boil. Add yolks of eggs and }4 cup sugar. 
Beat and then beat in very slowly the prepared cherry pulp. 
Turn into the freezing-can and place in the freezer. When frozen 
to a soft mush, add stiffly beaten whites of eggs and whipped 
cream. Give a few turns to blend and then remove the dasher and 
pack. Allow to stand for 2 hours. Contributed 

MILK SHERBET 

1 qt. milk Juice of 3 large lemons 

2 cups sugar 

Freeze the milk and sugar, add the juice of the lemons and 
freeze again, or mix all the ingredients and freeze. Pack until 
needed. Contributed 

268 



* ICES 

LEMON SHERBET 

2V2 cups sugar 5 lemons 

1 qt. water White of 1 egg 

Boil the sugar and water 5 minutes, then cool. Add the juice 
of the lemons, strain and freeze. Add the beaten white of egg and 
pack until needed. Contributed 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

1 tbsp. gelatin 1 pt. fresh fruit 

1 pt. water 1 pt. sugar 

Soak the gelatin in enough of the pint of water to soften it. 
Heat the remainder of the water and pour it over the gelatin. 
The fruit should be grated and stand an hour or more with the 
sugar over it, then added to the dissolved gelatin and strained. 
Freeze and pack it. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE 

Vs box gelatin 6 tbsp. flavoring 

V3 cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

Va cup warm water 1 qt. cream 

Soak gelatin in cold water and add the warm water. Whip 
cream until stiff ; add sugar, gelatin and flavoring, let stand a few 
minutes, then put in freezer with alternate layers of pineapple, 
cut fine. Pack with ice and let stand several hours. 

Mrs. L. H. Richards 

MAPLE MOUSSE, No. 1 

1 large cup maple sugar Yolks of 4 eggs, beaten light 

1 pt. cream 

Beat sugar and eggs into a syrup and place over fire in double 
boiler. Cook until eggs thicken syrup, stirring constantly. Take 
from fire and set into a dish of ice water. Beat until cool and of a 
light color. Beat cream until Hght and frothy, then gently stir 
into syrup. Put into a freezer and pack, using much salt. 

Mrs. Arthur L. Bunting 
269 



THE MODERN CLUB 



MAPLE MOUSSE, No. 2 

1 pt. cream Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 cup maple syrup 

Whip cream until stiff. Beat the yolks thoroughly in another 
bowl; add maple syrup. Mix well, then gradually add the 
whipped cream. Beat well together and pour into mold or freezer 
without dasher. Pack in ice and salt (using more salt than for 
ice cream). Let it stand for 4 hours. This is so rich that it will 
make enough for 6 persons. This recipe has been used many 
times by me and not found wanting. 

Mrs. E. E. Montgomery 

MAPLE PARFAIT 

1 qt. cream 6 eggs 

1 pt. milk 4 cups maple syrup 

Boil syrup until it threads. Beat eggs separately and put 
syrup in the yolks; add whites, cream and milk. Freeze. 
This will make 4 quarts. 

Mrs. Martin J. Mulkin 

COUPE EUGENIE 

Fill coupe glasses with vanilla ice cream and marrons in 
syrup, in equal parts. Cover the mixture with whipped cream 
flavored with vanilla, put on with a pastry bag in fancy rings and 
sprinkle over with crystallized violets. 

Mrs. Harold DeL. Downs 

LEMON ICE 

Juice of 6 lemons, strained 1 qt. cold water 

3 cups sugar Whites of 4 eggs, beaten 

Freeze until very hard. This is enough for 16 people. 

Mrs. a. A. O'Daniel 

ORANGE WATER ICE 

1 qt. water Juice of 1 doz. oranges 

2 cups sugar 
270 



ICES 

Boil the water, sugar and rinds of 2 oranges for 5 minutes. 
Cool and add the juice of the oranges, strain through muslin and 
£j.gg2e Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

GINGER ICE CREAM 

1 pt. cream Yolks of 3 eggs 

Va jar (small size) preserved gmger 

Scald the cream and pour it gradually over the beaten yolks. 
Return to double boiler and cook until thick. Chop the ginger fine. 
Add it and one-third of the syrup to the custard. Freeze the mix- 
ture, using 3 parts ice and 1 part salt. Contributed 

GRAPE FRAPPE 

1 qt. water 3 cups grape juice 

1 1/2 cups sugar Juice of 2 lemons 

Boil the water and sugar together for 10 minutes. Strain 
through cheesecloth into the can of the freezer. When cool, add 
the fruit juice. Pack with ice and salt, using equal proportions. 
When the mixture is half frozen, remove the dasher and pack until 
ready to serve. Scrape the frozen mixture from the side of the 
can and beat well before serving. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

NESSELRODE PUDDING 

1 cup sugar 1 cup almonds (shelled) 

1 cup chestnuts 1 cup cream 

1 cup boUing water V2 pineapple, or 1 cup canned pme- 

1/2 lb. candied fruit appJe 

Yolks of 3 eggs 

Shell the chestnuts, remove the brown skin, and cook them in 
boiling water 20 minutes, or until soft. Press them through a 
colander. Blanch, dry and pound the almonds. Cut the fruit 
into small pieces. Put the sugar and water together and boil 
15 minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs until ver\' light and add the 
hot syrup gradually. Heat again over hot water and stir constantly 
until the eggs coagulate; then remove from the heat and beat 
constantly until cold. Add the cream, fruit, ahnonds-, chestnuts 

271 



THE MODERN CLUB 



and ^2 tbsp. vanilla or lemon and vanilla mixed. Freeze, pack 
and put away 4 or 5 hours to ripen. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CRANBERRY SHERBET 

1 qt. cranberry sauce Juice of 1 lemon 

Add the lemon juice to the strained sweetened cranberry- 
sauce and freeze to a mush. Contributed 

BOMBE GLACE 

Line a mold with sherbet or water ice; fill with ice cream or 
charlotte russe mixture; cover, pack in salt and ice, and let stand 
2 hours. The mold may be lined with ice cream. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

PINEAPPLE WITH MINT 

1 pineapple V2 cup sherry 

Shred a fresh pineapple, sweeten lightly, pour on cup 
Place on ice. Serve in glasses with very finely-chopped mint 
added just before serving, about ^ tsp. to each glass. 

Mrs. Norman S, Essig 

CAMOUFLAGE 

1 pt. fresh strawberries (crushed 1/2 pt. water 

fine) 1 cup sugar 

Well-beaten white of 1 egg 

Add egg to other ingredients, and mix well just before freezing. 
Freeze like ice cream. Sufficient for 6 persons and greatly re- 
sembling a frozen cream. 

Mrs. H. K. Pancoast 



272 



CANDIES AND NUTS 

Now no more the frost 

Candies the grass. — Carew, "Spring". 

It is a cordial of candy taste. — Middleton. 



CANDIES 

SEA FOAM 

2V2 cups brown sugar (or 2 cups y2 cup water 

brown and y-i cup white) White of 1 egg 

2 cups chopped nuts 

Boil water and sugar without stirring until it forms a soft ball 
in cold water. Stir into beaten white of egg and beat the mixture 
until creamy. Mix in chopped nuts and drop on buttered tins. 

Mrs. Arthur L, Bunting 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS, No. 1 

1V4 lbs. brown sugar 1/2 pt. cream 

Vi lb, butter Vi lb. chocolate 

V4 lb. glucose 2 tbsp. vanilla 

Mrs. J. Clifford Jones 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS, No. 2 

1 lb. brown sugar V2 cup butter 

Vi lb. chocolate (4 oz.) V2 cup molasses 

y^ cup milk or cream 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 cup chopped cream nuts 

Cook all the ingredients together, except the vanilla and the 
nuts. When the temperature is 254° F., remove from the range, 
add the nuts and vanilla, and pour immediately in a shallow pan 7 
by 1 1 inches, which has been well buttered. If they are not soft, 
but sugared, add a little cream or milk, and cook again to the 
same temperature. English walnuts may be used. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 



OLD-FASHIONED CHOCOLATE CARAMELS, No. 3 

1 cup molasses 1 cup chocolate (Baker's) 

1 cup sugar Butter, V2 size of an egg 

1 cup milk V2 tsp. vanilla 

Boil until mixture stirs away from kettle, and until a trial in 
cold water proves it to be brittle. Add vanilla. Pour into well- 
buttered pans and mark off in squares. 

Miss M. W. Lovell 
- 277 



THE MODERN CLUB 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS, No. 4 

1 cup molasses 1 cup milk 

1 cup sugar Butter, size of an egg 

1 cup chocolate Vanilla 

Boil 20 minutes. When nearly done, add butter. Flavor with 
vanilla, stir briskly, pour into buttered tins. 

Contributed 

MOLASSES CANDY 

1 cup molasses V4 cup vinegar 

1 cup sugar Butter, size of a walnut 

1 qt. peanuts 

Boil until it strings, add peanuts. Pour into buttered tins. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FUDGE, No. 1 (1 pan) 

2 cups sugar Vi tsp. vanilla 
Butter, size of an egg % cup cocoa 

Y4 cup milk 

Boil all together 20 minutes, or until it strings from spoon, 
stirring all the while. Remove from fire and beat to a sugar 
almost. Pour into greased pan. 

FUDGE, No. 2 

2 cups sugar 2 squares Baker's chocolate 

1 cup milk 1 cup raisins (cut) 

Butter, size of a walnut 1 cup English walnuts (broken) 

Boil sugar and milk. Then add butter and melted chocolate. 
Allow to boil 20 minutes. Now beat about 10 minutes and add 
raisins and walnuts. Pour on buttered tin and allow to harden. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE, No. 1 

2 tbsp. Peanut Butter Vi cup milk 

1 cup gran, sugar 

After it comes to a boil continue boiling for 5 minutes 
then beat. Miss Mary Bamford. 

278 



CANDIES 

PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE, No. 2 

2 cups brown sugar V2 cup milk 

3 level tbsp. peanut butter 

Let sugar and milk boil until it forms a very soft ball when 
dropped into cold water. Remove from fire and add peanut 
butter. Beat hard and thoroughly to blend in the peanut butter. 
When thick, pour into buttered pan to cool. Cut into squares 
before quite hard. Mrs. Robert Kline, Boston 

PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE, No. 3 

2 cups powdered sugar 2 tbsp. peanut butter 

Vz cup milk 

Boil exactly 5 minutes. 

Mrs. James H. Moffatt 

DIVINITY FUDGE, No. 1 

2 large cups granulated sugar Pinch salt 

34 cup Karo syrup Whites of 3 eggs 

V2 cup boiling water 1 cup English walnuts 

Boil sugar, syrup, water and salt until it cracks in cold water. 
Beat the whites of eggs and add very gradually, beating in con- 
stantly (after cooling, candy about 1 minute). Add walnuts last. 
Cut when cold. Mrs. Arthur L. Bunting 

DIVINITY FUDGE, No. 2 

2 cups confectioners' sugar Whites of 2 eggs 
1 cup clear syrup (Karo) 1 cup nuts 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Boil sugar and syrup until it hairs. Remove from fire and 
quickly stir into this the whites of eggs (well beaten), nuts and 
vanilla and beat until it hardens. 

Mrs. Joseph M. Peale 

VINEGAR CANDY 

3 cups sugar 1 cup vinegar 

Boil 20 minutes; may add, if desired, a cup of peanuts or when 
cool pull until white. Contributed 

279 



THE MODERN CLUB 



BUTTER TAFFY 

1 cup molasses 1 cup sugar 

Vz cup butter 

Mix together. Boil until it hardens when dropped into cold 
water. Contributed 



TOFFEE 

1 lb. brown sugar 1 lemon or 4 tbsp. vinegar 

Vz cup butter English walnuts 

Heat the butter, sugar and acid over a moderate heat. When 
it bubbles stop stirring and cook to 270° F. Pour it over the nuts, 
which have been put on well-buttered pans. It hardens in a few 
minutes. Contributed 

WALNUT CREAMS 

Mixture should not be so stiff. By adding different flavors 
to the creams a great variety may be obtained. 

Contributed 

FRENCH CREAMS 

White of 1 egg Equal quantity of cold water 

Stir in XXX confectioners' sugar stiff enough to shape, roll 
and drop into melted chocolate. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

PUFFED RICE BRITTLE 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 tbsp. molasses 

Va cup water Butter, size of a walnut 

1 tsp. vinegar 1/2 tsp. salt 

V2 box pufied rice 

Boil together the sugar, water and vinegar for 5 minutes, then 
add molasses, butter and salt. Boil until a few drops in water 
becomes brittle. Take from fire, stir in puffed rice. 

Mrs. James H. Moffatt 
280 



CANDIES 



COCOANUT BAR 

4 cups sugar y-i tsp. cream of tartar 

1 cup water Vi lb. cocoanut 

Stir the sugar, water and cream of tartar together until the 
sugar is dissolved. As soon as bubbles are seen, cook without 
stirring until it reaches 238° F. Remove immediately from the 
range. Cool (but not in a very cold place), then beat until it 
thickens and add the cocoanut. Desiccated cocoanut may be 
used. Spread on buttered pans. Cool, but not in a cold place, as 
it hardens the top. It should be soft and creamy and may be cut 
into bars at any time. Contributed 

CHOCOLATE COCOANUT EASTER EGGS 

Whites of 2 eggs Confectioners' sugar 

Cold water Grated cocoanut 

Boiled sugar or French fondant is preferred for finest cream 
candies, as uncooked cream made in this way is quickly and easily 
prepared. Beat whites of eggs to froth, add equal quantity of cold 
water (measuring 2 half eggshellfuls) , then gradually stir into this 
confectioners' sugar until of a paste stiff enough to be melted with 
the fingers and retain its shape. Flavor with grated cocoanut, 
then mold in shape of Easter eggs and cover with melted choco- 
late. Lay in rows to harden. 

COATING FOR EASTER EGGS 

Melt 6 tbsp. grated chocolate over kettle of boiling water. 
Roll the big egg in the chocolate until you have an immense choco- 
late egg. Contributed 

CANDIED MINT LEAVES, No. 1 
Large fresh mint leaves V2 cup sugar 

Vi cup water 

Wipe the mint leaves very dry. Cook sugar and water 
together until it spins a thread. Remove from the fire. Place a 
leaf on a fork and dip in syrup until covered, then remove and 
sprinkle thickly with coarse granulated sugar. Prepare the day 
before they are to be used. 

Mrs. James H. Moffett 
281 



THE MODERN CLUB 



PEPPERMINTS 

1 cup sugar Vi cup boiling water 

3 drops oil of peppermint 

Boil the sugar and water together slowly until the syrup 
threads from a fork. Pour it into a bowl and add the flavoring. 
Stir until it begins to thicken and look cloudy. Drop by the teas- 
poonful on paraffin paper. The best -looking mints are made 
liquid and molded in a granulated sugar mold prepared in the 
same way as that made of cornstarch, sugar also being sifted over 
the top. As this sugar can be used again and again or boiled down 
for candy, it is not extravagant. Contributed 

OLD-FASHIONED NUT CANDY 

2 cups molasses Butter, V^ the size of an egg 
1 cup white sugar 2 tsp. vinegar 

Boil until candy hardens in cold water. When cool, pull until 
white, twist and cut into small pieces with shears. Shell nuts, 
chop or simply mix with candy just before taking from stove. 

Contributed 

PEANUT CANDY 
1 cup granulated sugar 1 cup rolled peanuts 

The peanuts are prepared by chopping or by rolling with a 
wooden pin. Heat the sugar in a hot closet. Put it in a heated 
French pan. When it has melted, remove to the back of the range 
and add the peanuts, mixing them thoroughly with the melted 
sugar. Spread on a tin and press into shape with knives. The tin 
does not need greasing. Cut in bars. It hardens immediately. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

SALTED ALMONDS 

1 pt. water 1 cup almonds 

Vz cup salt 1 tsp. butter 

Blanch the almonds. Heat the salt and water and, when 
boiling, add the nuts. Cook 8 minutes. Drain, place them in a 
baking-pan and put the butter over them in small pieces. Bake 
until a delicate brown. Stir frequently. All the butter should be 
absorbed. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
282 



NUTS 



CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 



Peel of 1 orange Vi cup water in which the orange 

V2 cup sugar was cooked 

Wipe the orange and remove the peel in quarters. Cut it in 
narrow strips and remove the superfluous white. Cook in boiling 
water until tender. Drain; then make a syrup of the sugar and 
% cup of the water. When the sugar dissolves, add the orange 
rind and cook slowly until most of the water has evaporated. 
Drain the rind and roll each piece in coarse granulated sugar. 

Contributed 

GLACfe 

1 lb. sugar 1 cup water 

y^ cup vinegar , 

Boil the water and sugar together until they thread from a 
fork, then add the vinegar. Continue to cook until it changes 
color (290° F.). Place pan in cold water to stop boiling. Place 
it over hot water while dipping. Drop the blanched nuts in, two 
or three at a time; remove them with a fork and place on buttered 
tins. Do not stir the candy. Warm nuts before dipping. If a 
heavier coating is desired, dip nuts twice. Grapes, oranges and 
boiled chestnuts make fine glaces. Contributed 



GLACE FRUITS AND NUTS 

Grapes Oranges 

Almonds Chestnuts 

Wahiuts Sugar 

Have the fruits perfectly dry and divided into sections, and 
the nuts shelled. In the instance of chestnuts, boil them in water 
until tender, then simmer for a little while in a thin 
sugar and water syrup so that they may be slightly 
sweetened. For the glac^ sugar, boil together y^ lb. cube sugar 
and yi cup water until a little dropped into cold water immediately 
becomes brittle. Pick up each piece of fruit or nut separately 
with candy dippers or long-handled sugar tongs. Dip very 
gently into the boiled sugar; then lay on waxed paper or on an 

283 



THE MODERN CLUB 



oiled platter, to set. Halves of nuts can be pressed into a small 
ball of almond paste or fondant and then dipped into the glace 
sugar. 

LEMON HARD CANDY 

2 cups granulated sugar yz tsp. lemon juice 

V2 cup water 1 level tsp. cornstarch 

4 level tsp. confectioners' sugar 

A clear, hard candy that is wholesome and liked by the 
children can be made by the following recipe, and it also makes a 
very good center for dipping. Time: Preparation and cooking, 
15 to 20 minutes. 

Boil sugar and water until a light straw color (310° F.); add 
lemon juice and pour into a shallow, lightly greased taffy-pan. 
When cooling, mark into squares, using a dull knife-blade. If the 
markings are deep the candy will break evenly when hard. Sift 
cornstarch with confectioners' sugar, and dust the candies to 
prevent sticking. This is a pure, wholesome sweet, and may be 
kept indefinitely in a covered glass jar. Contributed 

MOLASSES CANDY 

2 cups New Orleans molasses 3 tbsp. butter .^ 

1 cup brown sugar 1 tbsp. vinegar 

1 tbsp. vanilla 

Mix sugar, molasses and butter and boil slowly until it strings 
in iced water. Then add vanilla and vinegar and continue to 
boil until it becomes brittle when dropped into iced water. Remove 
at once, as it bums easily. Stir constantly and don't leave it a 
minutes from start to finish. 

Miss Alice L. Van Lennep 



284 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

That is may please Thee to give and preserve to our use the kindly fruits of 
the earth, so that in due time we may enjoy them. — Book of Common Prayer, 
Litany. 



FRUITS 



PRESERVING AND CANNING 



Glass jars, both new and old, should be thoroughly washed, 
partly filled with water and turned upside down on a table, to 
determine that they do not leak. New rubbers should be used. 

CANNING 

Use one-third as much sugar as fruit. The fruit must be very 
hot. Strain the juice and allow it to overflow the jar before sealing. 

PRESERVING 

Use three-fourths or equal amount of sugar with fruit. 
Large fruit may be left whole or cut in halves. 

JELLIES 

Use equal amount of cooked fruit, juice and sugar. 

Fruit should be under-ripe for most jellies. No water should 
be added to currants, grapes, raspberries or blackberries, and the 
fruit should be heated slowly. When very soft remove from the 
fire and drain in a flannel bag. Heat the juice slowly and boil 
gently the required time. The sugar should be heated before add- 
ing it to the juice. 

CANNING BY THE COLD-PACK PROCESS 

In canning by the cold-pack process the food, uncooked or 
only slightly cooked, is packed at once into the cans, in which it is 
cooked until sterilized, either by boiling water or steam. For 
this cooking, a wash-boiler, steam cooker or patent canner may 
be used. In the canners the cooking is done by steam, under con- 
siderable pressure, which materially shortens the process. In 
many steam cookers the temperature is somewhat above that of 
boiling water and the time of sterilization is shortened somewhat. 
In using a wash-boiler, a cloth may be laid over the top and the 
cover pressed in place over it to keep in the steam. Weights 
set on the ends of the cover are also of advantage. The jars must 
be lifted from contact with the bottom of the boiler by means of a 
rack. Cloth pressed between the jars near the bottom will keep 
them from coming in contact and avoid breakage. 

289 



THE MODERN CLUB 



DRIED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

Drying fruits and vegetables is one of the simplest and cheap- 
est ways of preserving them for f utiire use. There are two methods : 
dried by sun or by artificial heat; the latter is better and cleaner, 
especially in cold climates. A patent drier can be purchased for 
small cost that will dry large amounts of food with the least 
expenditure of time. Wash, drain well, and thinly slice the fruit 
before placing it one layer deep on the drying rack. Turn the 
product occasionally to keep it from adhering to the pan and be 
sure that every piece is subjected to heat. Be sure that the heat 
make the outside feel dry, but leaves the inside of the piece slightly 
soft, for hard or crisp pieces could not be softened for use. In 
other words, ttu*n fruit frequently and remove to pasteboard 
container or glass jar before they are dry enough to crack. It is 
a good plan to look at the dried products weekly until the danger 
of mold is passed. Some pieces may need to go back on the racks 
for another period of drying. The following vegetables are dried: 
Brussels sprouts, beets (boil until done, then skin and cut) , beans 
(young string), cabbage, carrots, celery, cauliflower, leeks, lima 
beans, onions, peas, parsley, parsnips, peppers, rhubarb, spinach, 
salsify and turnip. Fruits: Apricots (allow to stand in boiling 
water 30 minutes before slicing), apples, cherries, ptmipkins, pears, 
peaches, quinces. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

TOMATO SOUP 

12 qts. or 11/2 pecks ripe tomatoes 7 large onions 

14 stalks celery 12 tsp. salt 

14 sprigs parsley IV2 cups sugar 

14 bay leaves 6 saltspoons pepper 

21 cloves y\ tsp. cayenne 

Cut up tomatoes without skinning. Put through grinder 
celery, parsley, bay leaves, onions. Mix all together, boil and strain. 
Then add >^ lb. butter and 2 cups flour. Put in sterilized can 
and seal at once. Mrs. Sinkler 

CANNED TOMATOES (Cold-Pack) 

Remove the skin from small ripe tomatoes and fill sterilized 
jars standing in a cooker or boiler. Have also boiling on the stove, 

290 



FRUITS 

tomatoes cooked ; use these to fill the spaces between the tomatoes 
in the jars, shaking the jars to fill all open spaces. Cover the large 
receptacle and let cook about 15 minutes; adjust the rubber rings, 
fill the jars to overflow with some of the boiling hot tomato, set the 
lids in place, let cook 10 minutes, then fasten securely. 

Contributed 

CORN CREOLE FOR SOUP 

12 large tomatoes 2 onions 

12 ears corn 2 green peppers 

1 doz. okra pods 

Scald and cold dip tomatoes, cut in quarters, then cut the 
com off ears, slice onions and green peppers (remove seeds first) 
and cut okra pods in 1-inch lengths. Cook all for >^ hour. Put 
in sterile jars and fill to brim. Add 1 tsp. salt to each jar. Adjust 
iar tops and rubbers. Sterilize yi hour. 

Mrs. a. Reed McIntyre 

CANNED CORN 

Com enough to make 8 cups Vi cup salt 

2 cups cold water . 1 cup granulated sugar 

Put com into a saucepan with cold water, salt and sugar. 
Boil 15 minutes. Put into jars, boiling hot, filling to top, and seal 
at once. When cold, dip tops in paraffin. 

When preparing for table, empty the com into a sieve, dram- 
ing off juice. Put com into a saucepan, cover with cold water and 
allow to stand awhile. Repeat this until salt is drawn out. Then 
cover with cold water, stand on stove, where it will just come to a 
boil. Then add a little milk, butter and salt, and serve. 

Mrs. F. Dinwiddie Walker 

canned peaches, No. 1 

16 lbs. prepared peaches 1 Qt- 'water 

6 lbs. sugar (or 3 lbs. if not desired so sweet) 

Select firm fmit. Pare the peaches or put them in a wire 
basket and plunge them into a pan of boiling water. In 2 minutes 
take them out and remove the skins. Make a syrup of sugar and 

291 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Traxer and when it boils add enough peaches to fill a jar. Wlien 
soft, put them in a sterilized jar. Seal at once. 

CoNTRIBrXED 

CAHHED PEACHES, No. 2 

Prepare the peaches and pack closely in jars. Place the lids 
hghtty over the jars. Steam 15 -minutes; then add to each quart 
jar y^ cup sugar dissolved in 1 cup of hot water. 

Steam 10 or 15 minutes longer, or until the peaches are soft. 
Fill each jar to overflowing with boiling water and seal quickly. 
If several tiers of jars are to be steamed at once, the sjrup ma3^ be 
added before placing in the steamer. Contributed 

CANNED PEACHES, No. 3 

6 lbs. peaches, sliced 2 lbs. sugar 

Cook 15 minutes after commencing to boil. 

T^Irs. Penrose Robinson 

CANNED PEACHES No. 4 fCold-Pack) 

Remove the skins from peaches according to directions given 
xmder No. 1 . Drop into cold water to keep from discoloring while 
all are being made ready; have the jars in boiling water to hasten 
the process. Pour out the water, fill with peaches and set into the 
receptacle in which the fruit is to be cooked. Fill the jars to over- 
flow with hot s^-rup. Cover the receptacle, and let cook imtil the 
peaches are hot throughout and tender. Fill again with S5Trup 
to overflow, adjust the sterilized rubber ring and cover, partially 
seal, cover and again cook until very hot, then finish sealing. To 
make the s}Tup. take 1>^ cups of sugar to each cup of water, and 
let boil 5 minutes. Contributed 

PRESERVED PEACHES 

Use clingstones or other peaches. Keep whole or cut in 
halves as desired. ]Make a sjTup, allowing y^ lb. sugar and Yz cup 
water to each pound of fruit. "V^rben s>TTip boils, put in the peaches 
about 10 jars full at a time. Boil until tender. Fill jars nearly 
yi fuD of peaches, then add the syrup — 1 qt. of s>Tup to 1 qt. of 
any flavoring well mixed. ]Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

292 



JAMS 



ojt^e: 



Cnfe a doKc- Zir: t:^ -.i:- '^ -is: ' v Tzsm. cm 

onebal: '--^ ''" - ' r^i. 1 ..-^^ i ^:~-; - - -^ ^^^ps 

of sngcT dee of 1 teEEcn: skin. -tiT :^ the 

pel' "- Witii a 51 ' " 

pe^- _: :._ - ' - ''"' 

poor in syrzi z : :i_ 

5tc- 

C^ .._ .... ._... : ... : - 



GRAPE JAM. N 



5 lbs- gri3«es 
5 lbs- ssciT 



'-'. reE30ve seed?. 
^OHT Sre- Adi 



GAAPS JAM, Ho. 2 

ReiBovet2BepapesfiroE!:i>es:3=s- Wa^ tbeni snd press tfce 
pnl^ frcm :Jir ;V~~<- Bofl tJse ?t£p :n^ r: secararcs firo^ tiie 
seeds. ~ Aid the skins lo :2aepc3E^ and boQ 

wrtli cs. .iT i:^ 15 rnr":r:g&. Psit Btio jais or 

nmr'-T oooL co^rer with max and pap&^. 

CoXTKIBnED 



PEACH JAM 
Take ^4 ib. oc sag:ir rif rea. 



To eofdi poond o€ peac: - _ ker-icis o-f ihe resci: sccoes. ctn 

into small bits^ Ptit rrrrxrTr n rreserring krecije. a Isr^e .j ^ r- ^ r i t i t v 
at a time. Let boil 1 bc-_' ■ Z ~he s . jut fs a thick ctmssteacy. 

then bottle. Wbenccc. -ri.:=r irax ov^gr !±e jars. 

Mss- Walteji b. Bax^ 
293 



THE MODERN CLUB 



DATE AND PRUNE JAM 
1 lb. prunes 1 lb. dates 

Wash prunes, soak over night. Cook in same water and 
remove stones. Remove stones from dates and cut in small pieces. 

Cook with prunes until mixture is thick. Add small amount 
of lemon juice. Contributed 

STRAWBERRIES PRESERVED 

Put 1 lb. of fruit to 1 lb. sugar and let stand until juice is 
made, then boil briskly 20 minutes. Take strawberries out and 
boil juice 10 or 15 minutes. 

Mrs. a. Reed McIntire 

YELLOW TOMATOES PRESERVED 

10 lbs. fruit y\ lb. sugar to 1 lb. fruit (or if you 

3 lemons, sliced like very thick, sweet syrup, 

5 cents' worth of ginger root use pound for pound) 

Boil hard ^ hour. Have ginger cut in small pieces so there 
will be a piece in each glass. 

Mrs. Arthur L. Bunting 

PRESERVED WATERMELON RIND 

1 large watermelon (rind) 2 tbsp. white mustard seed 

10 cups sugar 3 tbsp. stick cinnamon 

1 qt. vinegar 2 tbsp. cloves 

A few blades of mace 

Cut the watermelon rind into squares, add 5 cups of sugar. 
Put on to boil and when nearly evaporated add vinegar and 5 
more cups of sugar, mustard seed, cinnamon, cloves and mace. 
Cook slowly until syrup is quite thick. 

Mrs. John S. Elliott 

QUINCE PRESERVES 

6 lbs. prepared quinces 1 qt. water in which the quinces 
5 lbs. sugar were cooked 

Wipe, quarter, pare and core the quinces and save the parings 
and cores for jelly. Cook the quinces in water until very tender. 

294 



JAMS 

Drain carefull5^ Make a syrup of the sugar and water and, when 
the sugar is dissolved, add the fruit and cook slowly for 3 hours, 
or until the quinces are dark red. Put immediately into jars. 

Mrs. E. O. Fitch, Jr. 

GREEN PEAR CONSERVE 

7 lbs. green pears, diced 2 ozs. ground ginger root or pulver- 

3 lemons, diced ized ginger 

3 lbs. sugar 

Cook slowly until mahogany color, which will be in about 2 
hours. Put in jars when cool and seal. 

Mrs. H. M. Langdon 

PLUM CONSERVE 

3 qts. blue plums 4 oranges cut small and the rind of 

1 lb. seedless raisins two of them 

5 lbs. sugar 

Stone the plums only and place all together in a kettle, cook 
slowly until thick and pasty. One cup of English walnuts can be 
added if desired. Put in jars or jelly glasses when cool. 

Mrs. H. M. Langdon 

CRANBERRY CONSERVE 

1 qt. cranberries 1/2 cup seeded raisins 

1 orange Sugar 

1 cup walnut meats (broken) 

Put cranberries, orange and raisins through the meat-grinder, 
add an equal amount of sugar and 1 cup of walnut meats; cook 
until it thickens. Glass and parafifin wax. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

GRAPE CONSERVE, No. 1 

6 lbs. grapes 1 lb. seeded raisins 

5 lbs. sugar Pulp of 4 oranges and rind of 2 

Pulp grapes. Cook pulps until seeds can be removed easily. 
Then add pulp to other ingredients and cook ^ hour. English 
walnuts may be chopped and added if desired. 

Mrs. F. Dinwiddie Walker 
295 



THE MODERN CLUB 



GRAPE CONSERVE, No. 2 

6 lbs. grapes V2 lb. raisins 

3 oranges V2 lb. English walnuts 

Squeeze oranges, remove pulp, put skin through meat-chopper, 
also raisins and nuts. Stem the grapes, boil till soft, strain. To 
every pint of juice allow 1 lb. sugar. Put juice in pot, boil with 
oranges, raisins, for 20 minutes, then add sugar. Boil up very 
hard, remove from fire and when almost cold add nuts, put in jelly 
glasses. Mrs. F. R. Savidge 

MARMALADES 

To produce the best marmalades choose ripe and luscious 
fruits. Cut them into pieces, put them in the preserving-kettle 
with layers of sugar, placing fruit at the bottom. 

Peach, pear, green grape, pineapple, quince or plum require 
^ lb. of sugar to 1 lb. of fruit. If the juice is not very juicy, a little 
water may be added. Be careful that the marmalade does not 
burn. When the whole begins to look clear, and becomes thick 
by cooling a portion on a plate, it is done, and may be put into 
jars at once. Contributed 

ENGLISH ORANGE MARMALADE 

The sour orange which grows in Oregon or California is the 
best. Weigh 14 ounces of sugar to each pound of fruit. Peel the 
oranges and leave them whole. Put the peels in a preserving kettle 
with enough water to cover them, and let them boil until very 
tender; then drain off the water and, taking each piece of peel 
separately on a silver fork, scrape out the soft inside with the back 
of a silver knife. Then cut the yellow peel into thin shreds. While 
the peels are boiling cut the oranges into slices and press through 
a colander. This process will leave all the fiber in the colander 
and send the juice and pulp through. Mix this with the sugar and 
put in a preserving-kettle over the fire. Mix the shredded peel 
with the juice and pulp and let it boil until it jellies, then put it 
in glasses and seal. Mrs. James Mills, England 

(Through Mrs. C. J. Essig) 
296 



' JELLIES 

GRAPE-FRUIT MARMALADE 

1 grape-fruit 1 lemon 

1 orange 1 small pineapple 

Chop pineapple, slice grape-fruit, orange and lemon very 
thin, using skin. One bowl of fruit to 3 of water and stand over 
night. Then boil 15 minutes hard. Let stand 24 hours. Then 
measure equal parts of fruit and sugar and boil 1>^ hours hard. 
Stir often. Fill warm, dry glasses. 

Mrs. Charles Hodge 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

1 orange 1 grape-fruit 

1 lemon 

Grind and measure. Add twice as much water. Let stand 
till next day. Boil until tender, measure and add equal quantity 
of sugar. Boil about 20 minutes. 

Miss Marie A. Jones 

ORANGE DELIGHT 

3 large seedless oranges 11 glasses water 

1 large lemon 4 lbs. granulated sugar 

Slice oranges and lemon very thin, rind and all. Pour water 
over the sliced fruit and set away 24 hours, then boil slowly 1 hour. 
After boiling, add sugar and set away 24 hours longer. Then boil 
1 hour and 20 minutes. Pour into tumblers and cover with 
paraffin wax. Mrs. A. J. Dando 

ORANGE AND PEACH MARMALADE 

1 orange 10 peaches 

Cut orange in convenient pieces to put through meat-grinder 
(take out seeds, grind up the orange skin and all). Scald peaches 
to remove skins, mash through colander. Place the ground orange 
and mashed peaches in a preserving-kettle and boil 10 minutes. 
To every cup of this pulp add K cup of sugar, boil hard for 20 
minutes, skim and pour in jars. When cool, cover with paraffin 
wax. Miss Irene C. Eisenbrey 

297 



THE MODERN CLUB 



MARMALADE 

1 grape-frmt 1 sweet orange 

1 lemon 

Slice very thin. To every pound add 3^2 pints of water and 
let stand 24 hours. Boil between 2 and 3 hours slowly until rind 
is tender, then to every pound of liquid and pulp add 1 lb. 3 oz. 
of sugar and boil 30 to 45 minutes till it jellies. (This is fine.) 

Mrs. Harold S. Thorn 

MABEL'S MARMALADE 

1 qt. peaches and juice, chopped 1 lb. raisins 

6 oranges, chopped 4 lbs. granulated sugar 

Boil peaches, oranges and raisins yi hour, add sugar and boil 
another half hour. Mrs. James A. Campbell 

AMBER MARMALADE 

1 grape-fruit 1 orange 

1 lemon 

Slice all very thin and stand over night in equal amount of 
water. Next morning cook 15 minutes, stand until next day, then 
add equal amount of granulated sugar. Cook until it jellies, and 
seal while hot. After it is cool, put paraffin on top to exclude all 
air, or put in airtight jars. Mrs. L. H. Richards 

CARROT MARMALADE 

3 lbs. carrots 1 lemon 

2 oranges 3 lbs. sugar 

Vz pt- water 

Boil carrots until tender, then put through nut-grinder. 
Grate rind of oranges and lemon. Add pulp and juice. Cook 
together yi hour. Delicious. 

Mrs. F. Dinwiddie Walker 

LEMON HONEY 

1 lb. sugar Juice of 3 lemons 

6 eggs, saving whites of 2 V^ lb. butter 

Put all in double boiler, stir until it thickens. 

Mrs. Harold B. Beitler 
298 



JELLIES 



PEAR HONEY 



Use winter pears. Wash pears, cut in halves, put in kettle, 
add water to cover. Let boil till tender, then strain through cloth 
(do not squeeze). For every pint of juice add 1 pint of sugar. 
If pears have little taste add to every quart of juice the juice of 
1 lemon. Boil sugar and juice till it does not run. If fruit is not 
over-ripe it is better. Mrs. F. R. Savidge 

SPICED PEARS 

7 lbs. hard pears V2 lemon (rind) 

3 lbs. sugar 1 oz. whole cloves 

1 pt. vinegar y-i oz. whole allspice 

Vi oz. ginger root 1 oz. stick cinnamon 

Cut pears in halves, remove the seeds, and pare. Put the 
vinegar and sugar on to boil. Into each piece of the pear, stick 
three or four cloves. Divide the cinnamon, allspice, and ginger 
into two parts, put into small pieces of cheesecloth, tie tightly, 
and then throw them into the sugar and vinegar. When this mix- 
ture begins to simmer, add the pears and the lemon rind, bring all 
to boiling point, take from the fire, and turn carefully into a stone 
jar. Stand in a cool place over night. Next day drain all the syrup 
from the pears into a porcelain-lined or agate kettle, cook over a 
moderate fire, and, when boiling hot, pour it into the jar over the 
pears. Next day drain and heat again as before; do this for 5 
consecutive days. The last day, boil the syrup down until there is 
just enough to cover the fruit. Add the fruit to the hot syrup, 
bring the whole to a boil, and put in stone or glass jars or tumblers. 
The pears may be finished in one day, by taking out the fruit and 
cooking the syrup slowly down to the right amount ; add the fruit 
to re-heat it and finish as above. The fruit is less rich if done in 
this way. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

GINGERED PEARS 

3 lbs. pears V^ lb. green ginger root 

iy2 cups cold water 3 lbs. white sugar 

IV2 lemons 

Pare and slice pears thin, put into preserving kettle with 
cold water and green ginger root which has been carefully scraped 

299 



THE MODERN CLUB 



clean. Simmer gently for 10 minutes, then add white sugar and 
lemons sliced very thin. Cook all together 20 minutes. 

Mrs. George R. Sullivan 

SPICED PEACHES 

7 lbs. peaches 1/2 oz. ginger root 

4 lbs. sugar 2 tsp. whole cloves 

1 pt. vinegar 5 cents' worth stick cinnamon 

Put in bag: 

1 tsp. ground cloves 2 tsp. ground cinnamon 

2 tsp. ground allspice y-i tsp. ground mace 

Skin peaches, then cook in this mixture. Drain in colander 
before putting in jars. Then pack peaches in jars and let syrup 
cook down until thick. Pour over peaches in jars and seal. It 
takes about 12 lbs. sugar and 1% qts. vinegar for a basket of 
peaches. Mrs. Herbert Fox 

SPICED CURRANTS 

5 lbs. currants 2 tsp. ground cloves 
4 lbs. brown sugar 3 tsp. cinnamon 

1 pt. vinegar 1 tsp. allspice 

Cook slowly 2 hours. If very ripe, 1 hour. 

Mrs. Herbert Fox 

SPICED WATERMELON RIND 

1 large watermelon 2 tbsp. white mustard seed 

10 cups sugar 2 tbsp. stick cinnamon 

1 qt. vinegar 2 tbsp. cloves 

2 blades mace 

Cut rind in squares. Add 5 cups of sugar and cover with 
water. Put on to boil. When nearly evaporated, add vinegar 
and 5 more cups of sugar, mustard seed, cinnamon, and mace. 
Cook slowly until syrup is quite heavy. 

Mrs. Brooke M. Anspach 

CURRANT JELLY 

Wash y2 crate of early July currants. (They are the best.) 
Remove the leaves and plice in a preserving-kettle. Mash them 

300 



JELLIES 

slightly to be sure they do not bum when first placed over the 
fire. Allow them to cook until they are well broken and ready to 
strain. To 14. crate of currants take 6 boxes of red raspberries and 
treat exactly as the above currants. Strain each through double 
cheesecloth bags into separate bowls. Now measure your juices 
with a cup, pouring it all together in one preserving kettle. Place 
kettle over fire. Now count out the same nimiber cups of sugar, 
placing on platters in the oven. While the juices are boiling hard 
for 25 or 30 minutes, see that your sugar is heated and that your 
jelly glasses are ready. 

Turn out the gas from under the kettle, or if coal fire is used, 
remove the kettle from the fire promptly, stirring in the hot 
sugar. Continue to stir until the sugar is dissolved. You will see 
at once that the juice is going to jell. Quickly pour into hot glasses. 
This never fails. 

Gooseberry jelly can be made in the same manner. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

CRAB APPLE JELLY 

Remove the blossom and decayed portion from the fruit; 
if large, cut into pieces, but do not pare or remove seeds. Nearly 
cover with cold water. Cook the fruit until soft. Drain, first in 
a colander, then in a jelly bag. Use the juice only and do not 
press the bag except for a second grade jelly. 

To 1 cup juice, use 1 cup sugar. 

Boil the juice slowly for 15 minutes; add the sugar and boil 
for 5 minutes, skimming as often as necessary. Pour into jelly 
glasses and when hard cover v/ith wax and paper. 

Contributed 

CRAB APPLE JELLY 

One lb. granulated sugar to 1 pt. juice. Stew the fruit, put 
in a kettle and cover with water, then put on and boil, then strain 
through a bag. Then boil and skim for about 20 minutes, or until 
it becomes a thick jelly. A teaspoonful of isinglass will make it 
clear. Put in tumblers. Red crab apples are best. 

Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 
301 



THE MODERN CLUB 



GRAPE JELLY 

Wash the grapes in a kettle, put them over the fire and cook 
until thoroughly done, drain through a sieve but do not press. 
Boil rapidly for 5 minutes. Then add 1 lb. sugar to each pint of 
juice and boil rapidly 3 minutes more. Combine Concord, Dela- 
ware and Niagara grapes. Mrs. A. Reed McIntire 



302 



BEVERAGES 

We drunk our first New England water with as much delight as ever we 
drunk drink in all our lives. — Chron. Pilgrims. 



BEVERAGES 



TEA 



Heat the teapot. Place 1 tsp. tea in the teapot, pour 1 cup 
freshly boiled water over it, and steep a few minutes. It may be 
served hot or cooled and iced. A slice of lemon is sometimes 
served in each cup. Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

TEA 

Four oz. of China tea, 3 oz. of Ceylon tea and 1 oz. of India 
tea make a fine mixture. Mrs. Horatio C. Wood, Jr. 

BOILED COFFEE 

Grind the coffee, using Y^, Java, y^ Mocha. Use 1 heaping 
tbsp. of coffee to 1 cup of boiling water. Measure the coffee; 
mix with it a little cold water to moisten it, also the shell of an 
egg and a small quantity of the white. Put the mixture into a 
heated coffee pot and pour in the freshly boiled water. When it 
boils, remove to the back of the stove. It is sometimes allowed to 
boil for 5 minutes; X cup of cold water is added, and after stand- 
ing a few minutes it is ready to serve. Coffee is improved by heat- 
ing slightly just before using. 

It should be served with cut loaf sugar, hot milk and cream. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FILTERED COFFEE 

One heaping tbsp. coft'ee to 1 cup boiling water. The coffee, 
finely ground, is put into the upper part of a French coffee pot 
which has been heated, and the boiling water poured through 
it. The coffee pot must be kept in a warm place while the coffee 
is being made. Mrs. Norman wS. Essig 

ICE COFFEE 

Strain cold coffee off of grounds, add equal part milk and 
sugar to taste, and serve with chopped ice in high glasses with 
whipped cream. Contributed 

CHOCOLATE 

2 cups milk (heated) 4 oz. (or squares) chocolate 

2 cups water (heated) 3 tbsp. sugar 

307 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Cut the chocolate into small pieces, and put it with the sugar 
and 4 tbsp. of the water into a saucepan. Stir over the fire uiitil 
smooth and glossy. Add the remainder of the water gradually, 
then the milk. Serve at once. A thinner drink may be made by 
using 2 oz. of chocolate. If the chocolate is sweetened omit the 
sugar. Serve with whipped cream. Contributed 

WHIPPED CREAM 

Chill the cream. If the weather is warm put ice around the 
bowl in which you whip it. Season with 1 tbsp. powdered sugar 
to 1 pt. cream. Use more sugar if you wish it sweeter. Whip 
with a churn and skim the froth, placing it on a hair sieve over a 
bowl. If a thick cream is desired use a Dover egg-beater and do 
not skim it. The quantity will be less than by the first method. 
Double cream should have some milk added to it before it is 
whipped. Cream may be whipped in the upper part of a double 
agate boiler, the lower part being filled with broken ice. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

PLAIN PUNCH 

6 lemons ' 2V2 cups powdered sugar 

5 oranges 1 small can crushed pineapple 

2 qts. crushed ice or 

3 qts. water 1 fresh pineapple 

1 small bottle maraschino cherries 

After reaming out the juice of lemons and oranges, add crushed 
ice, water, sugar and pineapple. To this add maraschino cherries, 
cut into small bits. Contributed 

LEMONADE 

6 lemons (juice and pulp) 1 cup sugar 

Add sugar to lemon juice and pulp. Stir well. Now add : 

3 pts. water 1 cup finely crushed ice 

y^ cup finely chopped mint leaves 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 

FRUIT PUNCH 

6 oranges 1 grape-fruit 

6 lemons 1 pineapple 

308 



BEVERAGES 

To the juices of the above fruit add sugar and water (White 
Rock if you wish) to the sweetness and strength desired. Then 
add the contents of a small bottle of maraschino cherries and 
garnish with slices of oranges and cubes of pineapple. This will 
serve 12 people. Miss Violette T. Haines 

TEA PUNCH 

Pour off any left-over tea from the leaves at once. To 1 qt. 
of liquid add >^ cup lemon juice and sugar to taste, stir until 
sugar is dissolved, remove the rind and bitter white portion from 
1 orange, cut into thin slices and each slice into quarter sections. 
Add to tea and set away and chill. 

If you have raspberry or currant jelly, melt and add to lemon- 
ade. It makes a very refreshing drink. Contributed 

GRAPE JUICE (Drexel Institute) 

Pick Concord grapes from the stem. Wash the grapes and 
heat them, stirring them all the time. When broken, pour into 
a jelly bag and allow the juice to drip from the grapes. Measure 
it and add % the amount of sugar. Cook the juice and sugar 
until they reach the boiling point. Pour into hot bottles, cork and 
seal immediately. Less sugar may be used. 

BOTTLE WAX 

Melt together equal parts of shoemaker's wax and resin. 
When liquid, dip the corked bottles into it. 

PUNCH 

6 oranges 1 bottle grape juice 

2 lemons 2 bottles ginger ale 

1 tsp. crushed mint Sugar to taste 

Mix juice of oranges and lemons in a bowl with crushed mint. 
Put in a punch bowl with a large piece of ice. Add grape juice. 
Just before serving add ginger ale. Cut small pieces of pineapple 
and strawberries into it also. As the ice melts add more ginger ale. 

Mrs. Norman S. Essig 
309 



COOKERY FOR THE CONVALESCENT 
(Individual Recipes) 

It means the knowledge of all herbs, and fruits, and balms and spices, and 
all that is healing and sweet in the fields and groves. . . . — Ruskin. 

What a searching preacher of self-command is the varying phenomenon of 
health ! — Emerson. 



CONVALESCENT 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

The food materials in these recipes are measured level. 

The cups used in measuring hold one-half pint. 

Flour should be sifted, before it is measured. 

In recipes where portion of an egg is required the egg should 
be first beaten. 

Dishes should be tasted before serving, and more seasoning 
added if desired. 

Many of these recipes may be cooked in a chafing-dish. 

The following list of utensils is suggested for the use of nurses : 

1 double boiler (pint size) or 

2 saucepans, Nos. 9 and 10, covers for both 
Strainer (bowl size) 

Small wooden spoon 
Measuring cup 
Egg whip 
Lemon squeezer 
Lemonade shaker 
Pieces of cheesecloth 



BEVERAGES 

LEMONADE 

Juice of 1 lemon, or 1 tbsp. sugar 

3 tbsp. lemon juice 1 cup water 

Dissolve sugar in lemon juice; add ice water and shaved ice 
if desired. 

ORANGEADE 

Rind of 1 sour orange 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 cup boiling water Juice of 1 orange 

Cut the yellow rind carefully from the orange and pour the 
boiling water over it. Add the sugar and juice, then strain. One 
teaspoonful of lemon juice may be added if desired. Chill before 
serving. 

315 



THE MODERN CLUB 



APPLE WATER 

2 baked apples 1 cup boiling water 

Pour the boiling water over the apples; strain and sweeten. 
Serve cold. 

TAMARIND WATER 

2 tbsp. preserved tamarinds 1 cup boiling water 

Pour the water over the tamarinds and let them stand one- 
half hour. Strain and serve cold. 



CURRANT JUICE 

V4 cup currant juice, or 1 cup cold water (or hot water if 

1 tbsp. currant jelly jelly is used) 

Sugar to taste 

Mix the juice or jelly and water and add sugar to sweeten. 



GRAPE JUICE 

Va cup grapes 2 tsp. sugar 

Pick Concord grapes from the stem. Wash and heat them, 
stirring all the time. When broken, pour into a jelly bag and 
press slightly. Add sugar and cook the juice and sugar until they 
boil. Pour into a hot bottle, cork and seal with paraffin, or equal 
parts of shoemakers' wax and resin melted together. Less sugar 
may be used. 

Serve with shaved ice and a few drops of lemon juice if 
desired. 

CRANBERRY JUICE 

1 cup cranberries 1 cup water 

Sugar 

Pick over and wash the cranberries; cook them with the 
water until soft, strain through cheesecloth; measure the juice 
and allow one-half as much sugar, add to juice and boil 1 
minute, Pour into a hot bottle and seal immediately. 

316 



CONVALESCENT 



TEA 

Vi tsp. Ceylon or 1 tsp. Oolong tea 1 cup boiling water 

Heat a cup or small teapot. Place the tea in it and pour 
freshly boiled water over it; steep a few minutes and strain. It 
may be served hot or cooled and iced. A slice of lemon may be 
served in each cup. 

FILTERED COFFEE 

2 tbsp. finely ground cofifee % cup boiling water 

Put a piece of filter paper in a strainer and place the coffee 
in it. Hold the strainer over a hot coffee cup and pour the boiling 
water slowly over the coffee. The cup must be kept in a hot 
place while the coffee is made. 

BOILED COFFEE 

2 tbsp. coffee Small pieces of egg shell 
1 tbsp. cold water % cup boiling water 

1/2 tsp. white of egg 1 tsp. cold water 

Heat the coffee pot 

Mix the coffee with the cold water, white of egg and shell. 
Add the boiling water. Boil three minutes, remove to the back 
of the stove. Pour out a small quantity of the coffee and return 
it to the pot. Add the teaspoonful of cold water and settle 2 
minutes. 

CEREAL COFFEE 

3 tbsp. cereal coffee 1 tbsp. cold water 

1 cup boiling water 

Mix the coffee with the cold water, add the boiling water; 
boil 20 minutes; settle 5 minutes and serve very hot. 

CHOCOLATE 

Vi oz. chocolate V2 cup hot milk or half milk and 

1/2 tbsp. sugar half water 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the sugar and the 
milk gradually. Bring to the boiling point and beat well; then 
serve. 

317 



THE MODERN CLUB 



COCOA 

3/4 tbsp. cocoa V4 cup water 

1 tsp. sugar 3/4 cup milk 

Mix the cocoa and sugar, add the cold water and boil directly- 
over the fire 3 minutes. Then stir into the hot milk and cook 
5 minutes over hot water. 

PASTEURIZED MILK 

Fill sterile bottles or jars nearly full of milk, cork them with 
baked cotton, place on rings in a deep pan and fill with cold water 
so that the water may be as high outside the jars as the milk is 
inside, place the pan over the fire and heat until small bubbles 
appear around the top of the milk (about 155° F.), remove to the 
back of the fire and allow the bottles to stand there 15 minutes, 
then displace the hot water with cold water to reduce the tem- 
perature as quickly as possible, and when milk is cold remove the 
bottles from the water and keep in a cold place. 

PLAIN ALBUMEN 
White of 1 egg 

Beat the white of the egg until slightly foamy, allow it to 
stand in a cold place until the liquid separates from the foam. 
Remove the foam and serve the liquid albumen. Salt ma}^ be 
added if desired. 

ALBUMENIZED MILK 

White of 1 egg Vs cup lime water 

Vi cup milk 

Place all the ingredients in a covered glass jar, shake until 
thoroughly blended, then strain. It may be sweetened and 
flavored. Serve immediately. 

ALBUMENIZED WATER 

White of 1 egg 1 tsp. lemon juice 

Vo cup water 1 tsp. sugar 

Place all the ingredients in a covered glass jar, shake until 
thoroughly blended. Strain and serve. 

318 



CONVALESCENT 



ALBUMENIZED ORANGE JUICE 

White of 1 egg Juice of 1 orange 

1 tbsp. sugar 

Place all the ingredients in a covered glass jar, shake until 
thoroughly blended. Strain and serve. 



COLD EGG-NOG 

1 egg 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 cup milk 

Beat the egg, add the sugar, then the milk. 



HOT EGG-NOG 

Yolk of 1 egg Vz cup hot milk 

2 tsp. sugar Nutmeg 

Beat the egg, add the sugar, pour the hot milk over them, 
strain, and flavor as desired. 



EGG BROTH 

1 egg Salt 

Vz tsp. sugar 1 cup hot milk 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt, pour the hot milk over 
them and serve immediately. Hot water, broth, soup or tea may 
be used instead of the milk. 



RENNET 

Vz cup milk 1 tsp. sugar 

5 drops vanilla Vi tsp. liquid rennet 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add the sugar and vanilla and 
stir until the sugar is dissolved, add the rennet, and pour into a 
glass dish ; leave until firm in a moderately warm place, then put 
in refrigerator; sprinkle with cinnamon or nutmeg, and serve with 
cream. 

319 



THE MODERN CLUB 



RENNET WHEY 

1 cup milk 1 tsp. rennet 

2 tsp. sugar 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add the sugar and stir until 
the sugar is dissolved, add the rennet; leave until firm in a mod- 
erately warm place; allow it to stand 20 minutes. Break the 
curd and strain through double cheesecloth. Flavor if desired. 

CEREALS AND GRUELS 
GENERAL RULES 

Any cold mush may be thinned with cream, milk or water, 
to the consistency of a cream soup, and served as a gruel. 

All cereal preparations, grains, meals or flours may be used 
for gruels; also plain crackers powdered. 

Gruels must be thoroughly cooked, strained, seasoned and 
served very hot. 

Gruels made with meal are made by pouring the meal into 
the boiling water. They should be cooked for 3 hours over 
boiling water. When gruels are made from flour, the flour must 
first be mixed to a smooth, thin paste with y^ cup cold water or 
milk, then stirred into the hot liquid. They should be cooked 
at least 1 hour. 

A double boiler must be used for gruels made with milk. 

Sugar, stick cinnamon, whole cloves, nutmeg, raisins, lemon 
rind, fruit juice, meat extracts, or stimulants may be used to 
flavor gruels. 

CORN MEAL GRUEL 

IV2 cups water 1 tbsp. corn meal 

yi tsp. salt 

Pour the meal into the boiling salted water; cook directly 
over the heat 15 minutes, stirring constantly, then over boiling 
water for 3 hours. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

1 cup liquid 1 tbsp. avena 

Yf, tsp. salt 
320 



CONVALESCENT 



Pour the avena into the boiling salted water; cook directly 
over the heat 15 minutes, stirring constantly, then over boiling 
water for 1 hour. If milk is used, the salt should be added 
just before serving. 

GLUTEN GRUEL 

iVi cups water 1 tbsp. gluten flour 

Yt tsp. salt 1 clove 

Mix the gluten flour gradually with % cup cold water and 
stir into 1 cup boiling salted water; cook directly over the heat 
15 minutes, add the clove and cook over boiling water yi hour. 

MILK PORRIDGE 

\y^ cups milk 2 raisins 

1 tbsp. flour V4 tsp. salt 

Mix the floiu- gradually with % cup cold milk and stir into 
1 cup hot milk; if raisins are used, cut them in quarters and cook 
with the porridge; it must be cooked over boiling water 1 hour. 
The salt should be added just before serving. 

CRACKER GRUEL 

3 tbsp. powdered cracker V^ cup milk 

V2 cup boiling water Vi tsp. salt 

Add the powdered cracker to the milk and water, cook for 
10 minutes, add salt and serve. The flavor is improved if the 
crackers are browned before rolling. 

CRANBERRY GRUEL 

iVi cups water 1 tbsp. flour 

yi tsp. salt 3^ cup cranberries 

1 tbsp. sugar or more 

Mix the flour gradually with yi cup cold water and stir into 
1 cup boihng salted water; cook directly over the heat 15 minutes, 
then over boiling water 30 minutes, add the cranberries and cook 
10 minutes longer or until they become soft, add the sugar and 
when it dissolves press through a strainer and serve. 

321 



THE MODERN CLUB 



BLACKBERRY MUSH 

1*4 cups water 1 tbsp. flour 

% tsp. salt 1 cup blackberries 

1 tbsp. sugar or more 

Prepare as for cranberry gruel; strain into a glass dish and 
serve very cold. 

WHEATENA 

iVi cups boiling water % tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. wheatena 

Add the wheatena gradually to the boiling salted water. 
Cook it for 10 minutes directly over the heat and then place it 
over boiling water for j4 hour. 

Five dates may be cut into eighths and added to the wheatena 
10 minutes before it is taken from the fire. 

AVENA 

1 cup water Vi tsp. salt 

Va cup avena 

Pour the avena into the boiling salted water; cook directly 
over the heat for 10 minutes, then over boiling water for 1 hour. 

GLUTEN MUSH 

iVi cups boiling water Vz cup cold water 

V2 tsp. salt Va cup gluten flour 

Add the cold water gradually to the flour, then pour through 
a strainer into the boiling salted water; cook 30 minutes, 
stirring frequently ; strain. 

STEAMED RICE 

Vi cup boiling water Vk tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. rice 

Rice must be carefully picked over and washed thoroughly. 
Put rice, water and salt into a bowl, place it in a steamer, over 
rapidly boiling water. Cook until the rice is soft, from ^ to 1 
hour. 

322 



CONVALESCENT 



BOILED RICE 

iVz cups boiling water Vs tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. rice 

Rice must be carefully picked over and washed thoroughly. 
Add it gradually to the boiling salted water, so that the water 
will not stop boiling. Partly cover and cook 40 minutes, or until 
the grains are soft; turn into a colander to drain, then allow rice 
to dry for 5 minutes in the oven with door open. 

BEEF TEA, No. 1 

Cut a pound of lean beef into small pieces, put them into a 
quart Mason jar (with lid on tight) . Place in a pot of cold water. 
Heat gradually, then let it boil slowly for 2 or 3 hours, when all 
the juice will be drawn out of the meat. Pour off this juice, 
season with a little salt (it requires very little). When cold skim 
off the globules of fat. 

BEEF BROTH, No. 2 

Yz cup or Vi lb. lean beef 1/2 cup cold water 

Chop the meat very fine and soak it in the cold water 1 hour 
or longer; put it in a saucepan, surrounded by lukewarm water 
and cook until it has become a reddish brown, stirring all the time. 

BEEF JUICE 

Choose a thick cut of fine, fresh juicy steak without fat. 
Broil it over the coals for only a minute, or long enough to merely 
heat it throughout. Put it over a warm bowl set in a basin of 
hot water, cut it in many places, and squeeze out all the juice, 
with the aid of the meat-squeezer. Salt it very slightly. It 
should be served immediately, freed from every atom of fat, and 
accompanied with a wafer cracker. 

PEPTONIZED BEEF BROTH 

Vi lb. beef Vi tube of peptonized powder 

Yz cup water 1/2 cup water 

323 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Wipe and chop lean beef, add 14 cup water, and cook over a 
gentle heat until it boils, stirring constantly. Pour off the liquid, 
rub the meat to a paste and add this to the liquid. Into a clean 
jar put one-quarter of the powder in a Fairchild peptonizing tube 
with 1/2 cup cold water. Mix thoroughly. Add the broth and 
shake well together. Set aside in a warm place (115° F.) for 
3 hours, then boil quickly, strain and season. 

CLAM AND OYSTER JUICE 

Wash the clams or oysters and remove all bits of shell; cut 
them into several pieces and heat a few minutes in their juice. 
Strain through muslin. Serve while hot. Great care must be 
taken in straining that sand does not pass through muslin. 

These juices may be diluted with an equal quantity of boiling 
water. They may be frozen. 

CLAM BROTH 

3 large clams (in shell) 14 cup water 

Wash the clams thoroughly with a brush and place them, with 
the water, over the fire. As soon as the shells open the broth is 
done. Strain through muslin and serve. 

CHICKEN BROTH 

1 chicken Sprig of parsley 

3 pts. cold water Salt and pepper 

V2 cup freshly boiled rice Crackers 

Cut up a fowl, and crack the bones. Put it into the cold 
water. Boil it slowly, closely covered, for 3 or 4 hours, or until 
the meat falls in pieces. Strain it. Add freshly boiled rice, also 
a sprig of parsley. Simmer it for 20 minutes longer. Season 
with salt and pepper (but not too highly). Serve with crackers. 
If desired, it may be served in jelly form when cold. 

MUTTON BROTH 

Made in the same manner as chicken broth, allowing a quart 
t)f cold water to each pound of meat. 

324 



CONVALESCENT 



CHICKEN CUSTARD 

V^ pt. chicken broth Beaten yolks of 3 eggs 

A little salt 

Mix all well, and cook it in a double boiler until it thickens. 
Serve in custard cups. 

CHICKEN JELLY 

Cut half a raw chicken into small pieces. With the bones 
put this on to boil in a quart of cold water. Boil slowly until 
reduced one-half or less. Season. Strain through jelly-bag. 
Pour into mold. If the chicken is tender broil carefully the 
breast of the other half; cut into dice, or put in mold whole, 
cover it with the liquid. When the jelly has hardened take off 
the layer of fat. It is now ready to turn out of the mold and 
serve. 

SQUAB IN PAPER 

Singe; remove pin feathers, head, feet, tips of wings and 
crop, split through the back; clean and wipe both inside and out 
with damp cloth. Fold in a buttered paper, place in a pan and 
bake in a hot oven for 25 or 40 minutes. Turn frequently while 
cooking. 

REED BIRD 

Pick, singe and draw the bird. Remove head, tips of wings 
and feet; then wipe it dry. Put yi tsp. butter in a pan or chafing- 
dish and when hot, put in the bird, cooking it until brown. Turn 
frequently. Season with salt and pepper. Serve on toast or a 
canape and garnish with cress or celery tips. 

BAKED REED BIRD 

Prepare bird as directed above and put in a small baking- 
pan. Bake in hot oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Baste. 

The bird may be wrapped in a slice of bacon before baking. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Bake in hot oven 45 to 60 
minutes. When soft, break the sldn immediately to allow the 
steam to escape and serve uncovered. 

325 



THE MODERN CLUB 



HOW TO PREPARE AN UNCOOKED EGG 

Beat well the yolk and 1 tsp. of sugar in a goblet. Add to 
this the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth. Stir all well 
together. Flavor the egg with nutmeg. It is palatable without 
any flavoring at all. 

SOFT-COOKED EGG 

Place the egg in a pint of boiling water, remove from the 
fire, cover, and allow to stand from 5 to 8 minutes. 

POACHED EGG 

Break the egg into a saucer, slip the egg into boiling water, 
cover, remove to cooler part of fire and cook until white is firm 
and a film has formed over the yolk. Take up with a skimmer, 
drain, trim off rough edges, and serve on a slice of toast. Season. 

OMELET SOUFFLE 

V2 tbsp. butter Pepper 

1/2 tbsp. flour V4 cup milk 

Vs tsp. salt 1 egg 

Make the white sauce; separate the yolk and white of the 
egg, and beat them until light. When the white sauce is cool, 
add the yolk and cut in the whites. Place in a small buttered 
dish and bake in a pan of hot water until light brown. 

SAVORY CUSTARD 

i^ cup milk }4 tsp. beef extract 

^ cup water Vs tsp. salt 

Vs egg 

Dissolve the extract in the hot water, add hot milk and salt, 
add this to the beaten egg. Strain and steam over hot water until 
firm. 

ARROWROOT JELLY OR BLANC-MANGE 

Add 2 heaping tsp. of best arrowroot, rubbed smooth with 
a little cold water, to a coffee cup of boiling water or rich milk 
which has been sweetened with 2 tsp. of sugar. Stir and boil it 

326 



CONVALESCENT 



until it has thickened. It may be flavored with lemon juice if 
made with water. It is very nice without flavoring. Pour into 
cups or molds. Serve with cream and sugar, or with a compote 
of fruit around it. 

RICE JELLY 

Mix enough water to 2 heaping tsp. of rice flour to make a 
thin paste, add to this a coffee cup of boiling water. Sweeten to 
taste with loaf sugar. Boil until it is transparent. Flavor by 
boiling with it a stick of cinnamon, or several drops of lemon 
juice if intended for a person with fever. Mold it. 

SPANISH CREAM 
(Individual for sick) 

Ys box gelatin 1 egg 

1 cup milk 2 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. cold water 

Cover gelatin with cold water and let it stand until soft. 
Scald milk, beat the yolk of egg until light, add sugar and hot 
milk. Return to fire and cook until creamj^ Add gelatin, stir 
tmtil dissolved, strain, and add white of egg, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Stand 1 hour to mold. 

Mrs. E. Pusey Passmore 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

1/2 cup cream 1 tbsp. sugar 

V2 tsp. vanilla 

Heat the cream and dissolve the sugar in it; when cool, add 
vanilla and freeze. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

V2 cup cream 2 tsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. caramel 

Heat the cream and dissolve the sugar and caramel in it; 
when cool, freeze. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM 

Vz cup cream iVg tbsp. sugar 

% cup strong coffee 

327 



THE MODERN CLUB 



Heat the cream and dissolve the sugar in it, add the coffee, 
and when cool, freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

V2 cup cream 1 tbsp. sugar 

Vi oz. chocolate 3 drops vanilla 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the sugar and the hot 
cream gradually; when cool, add vanilla and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

V2 cup cream V4 cup sugar 

V2 cup strawberries 

Rinse, hull and mash the strawberries, add the sugar, add 
cream and freeze. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM 

V2 cup cream V4 cup sugar 

1/2 cup raspberries 

Strain the raspberries through cheesecloth ; add the sugar to 
the juice, then add cream and freeze. 

PEACH ICE CREAM 

y2 cup cream V4 cup sugar 

Va cup peaches 

Mash the peaches, add sugar, add cream and freeze. If 
canned peaches are used, drain the fruit from the juice, and use 
less sugar. If peaches lack flavor, add >< tsp. lemon juice. 

MILK SHERBET 

V^ cup milk 14 cup sugar 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 

Dissolve the sugar in the lemon juice, add the milk and freeze. 

ORANGE ICE 

V4 or V2 cup water V2 cup orange juice (IV2 oranges) 

Rind of Vi orange V2 tbsp. lemon juice 

328 



CONVALESCENT 



Boil the water, sugar and rind of % orange for 3 minutes. 
Cool. Cut the top off the whole orange, and with a silver spoon 
remove the inside. When the syrup is cool, add the juice and 
strain through cheesecloth. Freeze, and when ready to serve, 
fill the orange shell with the ice. 

LEMON ICE 

Vz cup water 14 cup sugar 

3 tbsp. lemon juice 

Boil the water and sugar for 3 minutes, add lemon juice, 
strain through cheesecloth, and when cool, freeze. 

GRAPE JUICE FRAPPE 

Va cup boiling water Vi cup grape juice 

1 tbsp. sugar 1 tsp. lemon jtiice 

Boil water and sugar for 3 minutes. Strain, and when cool, 
add fruit juice and freeze. 



329 



MISCELLANEOUS 

The Miscellaneousness of Rome, which made the mind flexible with constant 
comparison, and saved you from the ivorld's ages as a set of box-like partitions 
without vital connections. — G. E. 



MISCELLANEOUS 



SUGGESTIONS FOR THE MOTOR HAMPER AND PICNIC 

BASKET 

These may be packed in a zinc-lined basket in cracked ice : 

A mold of jellied chicken madrilene or tomato broth to serve 
in cups. 

Cold boiled lobster in the shell with mayonnaise. 

Shells of crab meat, Ravigote. Crab meat packed in glass 
jar and mayonnaise packed separately, empty shells to fill with 
mixture. 

Iced clam bouillon in cups (packed in 2 qt. glass jar). 

Cold broiled chickens in waxed paper. 

Cold roasted squab chickens with stuffing. 

Cold roasted squabs with watercress. 

Hearts of lettuce wrapped in a napkin and put on cracked ice 
to chill. 

Peeled tomatoes and sliced cucumbers ditto. 

White cherries with stones removed, filled with cream cheese. 
Served with lettuce and mayonnaise as salad. 

Cold individual chicken and ham pies. 

Cold Cornish pasties. 

Cold cornucopias of Virginia ham stuffed with cabbage salad. 

Cold cherry or strawberry tart. 

Stuffed celery with cream and Roquefort cheese. 

Eggs stuffed with caviar or anchovies. 

Cantaloupes to chill and fill with fresh raspberries. 

Cold fried brook trout with watercress. 

Cold breast of chicken, supreme. 

Lobster, chicken or crab-flake salad in jars. 

Biscuit Tortoni in paper cases. 

A jar of mixed fruits in syrup to serve in ginger ale or 
lemonade. 

Iced coffee or chocolate. 



To remove fruit stains, pour boiling water on the stain from 
3 or 4 feet above the stain. 

To clean piano keys, rub over with alcohol. 

335 



THE MODERN CLUB 



To remove tea and coffee stains, dip in cold water, then cover 
stain with glycerine. Allow to stand 3 hours, then wash with 
hard soap and water. Repeat if necessary. 

To remove dust from rattan furniture, use painters' small 
brush. 



TO MAKE BAKING POWDER 

16 oz. cream of tartar (dry) 8 oz. bicarbonate of soda (dry) 

1 oz. tartaric acid (dry) 

Mix thoroughly to fine powder, sift 3 or 4 times. 

Mrs. L. H. Richards 

TO MAKE SOAP 

1 can Banner's lye 1 qt. cold water 

2 tomato cans clean fat V2 cup Mule Team borax 

V2 cup household ammonia 

Heat the fat and strain through a sieve; then through a cloth; 
pour the water on lye. After it dissolves put in borax and am- 
monia. When both are lukewarm, pour this on the fat while 
warm; stir until it commences to thicken. Line a pan with muslin 
and pour in the pan. When it begins to harden, cut in pieces 
about size of small Ivory soap ; let stand until it gets hard. 

Mrs. Harold Lewis 



FOR THE LINEN CLOSET 

Every housewife likes to have her linens scented a bit. 
Use 1 oz. of powdered gum benzoin, 1 oz. of powdered cloves 
and 2 oz. of powdered cinnamon. Add to this 7 oz. of pow- 
dered cedar wood and the same of dried lavender leaves. Mix 
well and place in small bags. Then lay the little bags among 
the sheets and pillow slips. 

336 



MISCELLANEOUS 



FLY EXTERMINATOR 

Put 10 cents' worth of oil of lavender slightly diluted with 
hot water into an atomizer. Spray it freely into the air and 
not a fly will remain on the premises. It also leaves a delicate 
violet fragrance that is delightful. Mrs. Frederick S. Giger 



POLISH FOR NICKEL OR GERMAN SILVER 

In an 8-oz. bottle fill % with powdered whiting, 1>^ tbsp. 
ammonia, and fill the rest of bottle half and half with denatured 
alcohol and cold water. 



BAYBERRY CANDLES 

The berries, which are covered with greenish white wax 
when ripe, are gathered late in autumn and thrown into a pot of 
boiling water; the waxy substance floats on top and is skimmed 
off. This has a dirty green color when congealed, but is again 
melted and refined, and thus assimies a transparent green hue. 
A bushel of berries will yield 4 or 5 lbs. For candles it is cast in 
molds or made like ordinary wax candles; this is by dipping the 
prepared wick into the melted wax and then rolling upon a marble 
slab; this is repeated until the candle is of the desired size. The 
bayberry candles bum slower than common tallow ones, have 
very little smoke and emit a rather agreeable odor. 



PARAFFIN CANDLES 

One method is to cut newspaper into strips between 2 and 3 
inches wide. These strips are rolled tightly, 4 or 5 being used 
in a roll, the succeeding strip being inserted in the roll 6 inches 
before the end of the preceding strip, and the last 6 inches turned 
back and thoroughly pasted in order that the roll may not come 
undone when burned. These rolls are soaked in melted paraffin 
until they will take up no more of the material and then dried. 
They are said to bum from 20 to 30 minutes. 

337 



THE MODERN CLUB 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND 

3 teaspoons liquid 

4 tablespoons liquid 

16 tablespoons 

yi cup 

2 gills 

2 cups 

2 pints (4 cups) 

4 cups liquid 

4 cups flour 

2 cups butter, solid 

]/2 cup butter, solid 

2 cups granulated sugar 

lyi cups powdered sugar 

Zyi cups confectioner's sugar 

1 pint milk or water 

1 pint chopped meat (solid) 

10 eggs (without shells) 

8 eggs, with shells 

2 level tablespoons butter 

4 level tablespoons butter 

2 level tablespoons granulated sugar 

4 level tablespoons flour 



MEASURES 

= 1 tablespoon 

yi cup 



i gill or y 
cup 

gill 

cup 
pint 
quart 
quart 

pound or 1 quart 
pound 

^ pound (4 ounces) 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
ounce 
2 ounces, or yi cup 
ounce 
ounce 



DAINTY LUNCHEONS FOR JUNE 

Assorted Hors d'CEuvres 
Creamed Chicken Hash with Noodles 

Hot Buttered Toast 

New Peas and String Beans in Cream 

Stuffed Prune Salad 

Rice Waffles Coffee 



Supreme of Cantaloupe 

Jellied Tomato Broth 

Filet of English Sole, Marguery 

Supreme of Chicken, Jeannette 

New Lima Beans, Normande 

New Asparagus, Vinaigrette 
Sultana Roll Madeleines 

338 



Potato 



Coffee 



MISCELLANEOUS 



A CHRISTMAS DINNER MENU 

Oysters on the Shell 

Clear Green Turtle Soup 

Salted Almonds Celery Olives 

Goose, Roasted, Potato and Onion Stuffing Baked Apple Sauce 

Onions in Cream Potato Croquettes Mashed Turnips 

Venison Cutlet with Black Currant Jelly 

Lalla Rookh Punch 

Waldorf Salad in Apple Cups 

English Pltim Pudding with Hard Sauce 

Mince Pie with American Cheese 

Frozen Cream, Shepherd's Star Coffee Assorted Fruit 

FROZEN CREAM, SHEPHERD'S STAR 

This has a distinctly Christmas-like appearance, in its nest 
of spun sugar which may be procured from any confectioner. 
Have a star-shaped mold with a star in the bottom, and coat this 
thickly with raspberry ice. Make a mousse of 2 cups of sweet 
cream whipped very stiff, beating in ^ cup of powdered sugar, 
a soupgon of salt and 1 tbsp. of granulated gelatin dissolved in 
% cup of cold water, and flavor very strongly with Benedictine. 
Fill the star mold with this, cover tightly, pack in ice and salt 
and freeze. The spun sugar upon which it should be turned in 
serving emits rays which dart out from between the points of the 
star, and the dessert has a peculiar significance for Christmas-tide. 

SUPPER MENUS FOR AFTER THEATER OR OPERA 

Tomato or Chicken Consomme in Cups 

Timbales of Lobster 

Lamb Cutlets with Butter, Noisette French Peas 

Quail, Roasted, or Supreme of Chicken, Jeannette 

Salad Mignonne Peach Melba Cakes 

SUPPER MENU n 

Cream of Chicken Soup in Cups 

Oyster Patties 

Mignonette of Chicken with Paprika Sauce 

Asparagus Tips in Cream 

Assorted Cold Meats 

Palm Beach Salad Coupes Eugenie 

339 



THE MODERN CLUB 



THE MAXIMS OF FRANCOIS 

Hear ye, American housewives, what Frangois has to say: 
"The high cost of living is due to your extravagance; yotir ex- 
travagance is due to your ignorance, and your ignorance is due to 
your ancestors." 

Then having placed the responsibility on long-gone ancestors, 
Frangois proceeds to explain wherein salvation lies. 

"Treat excellent food plainly. Transform low-priced foods 
into delectable dishes by proper seasonings and flavors. And 
eat less meat!" 

Americans eat more meat than any other people in the world. 
This is the startling information Frangois impresses upon you and 
produces a table of statistics to prove it. According to the figures, 
America, per person, eats 185 pounds of meat each year, dressed 
weight; England, 121 pounds; Germany, 116 pounds; France, 
79 pounds; Italy, 71, and Switzerland, noted for its hardy people, 
only 62 pounds. 

"Therefore," says Frangois, "you Americans eat much more 
than the French and the Italian nations together; 2.37 times as 
much as we do, and 2.62 times as much as the Italians." 

To appreciate the value of Frangois' theories, you must see 
them carried out in his own little corner of Paris that he has 
transplanted to the West Forties in New York City. Here he 
has a big basement. In it is a wonderful kitchen hung with 
shining brass and copper utensils — and Frangois himself, his ruddy 
cheeks set off by his white cap and white apron. 

If the weather is warm, you eat in the sunny back yard, 
for even the sun is in the scheme of Frangois' delectable economy. 
How much is it going to be, you wonder, as you marvel all through 
the menu from the hors-d'oeuvres to the hot black coffee that puts 
the finishing touch on an excellent dinner. 

"Fifty cents," he bows, smilingly, and somehow you know 
a nice little percentage of that half dollar is going into the coffers 
of your host. But how? Simply by utilizing every part of the 
supplies that can be utilized. The coffee grounds, the chicken 
bones and the potato skins are left, but the diners have eaten 
everything else! "But you Americans," exclaims Frangois 
deprecatingly, "you throw away enough in a day to feed a French 
family a week. But you will learn," he adds encouragingly. 

340 



MISCELLANEOUS 



"When a food is really excellent, treat it as plainly as possible 
and add no ingredients that will destroy its taste or take away its 
natural flavor. When a food is cheap and good, though rather 
tasteless, use the right flavors and sauces and turn it into an 
excellent dish. 

"Economy always, but real economy. Therefore I buy ex- 
pensive ingredients for my sauces and flavorings and there is no 
waste because the dishes are not palatable. The best mushrooms, 
olive oil, truffles, anchovies and capers are the cheapest in the end, 
and many foods that no good cook would serve without them are 
made into most appetizing dishes by their seasoning. The too 
strong flavor of mutton may be remedied by any acid sauce, 
though caper sauce is perhaps the best. 

"Sage, saffron, savory, basil and thyme are excellent season- 
ings. Morsels that are quite insignificant may be covered with 
herbs, curry or other exotic condiments and be made into dishes 
good to look upon and to eat. In the French stores one may buy 
stew bunches, which contain green bay leaves, thyme, green celery 
and other sweet herbs, and hot dried peppers. Toast and fried 
bread cut into forms should always accompany stews and cream 
dishes, spinach or dishes served with sauce." 

Here Francois had to stop to explain to the listener the dif- 
ference between gravies and sauces. A gravy, it seems, is made 
from the juice of the article cooked, usually thickened and sea- 
soned, excepting for broiled meats and fowls. A sauce is made 
of material foreign to the food served. 

"Serve your food so that it will delight the eye — that has so 
much to do with the relish of a meal. Garnishes are very simple, 
but they add so much. The red radish cut fancifully is very effect- 
ive and when the little red buttons topped with small green 
leaves are placed on a slice of green pickle, the color combination 
is attractive. In earlier days they used to put a heavy wreath of 
green about meats and fowls, but now a few sprigs of green at one 
side of the food is considered better. Nut meats are desirable in 
connection with savory and sweet dishes and tiny croquettes are 
always good. 

"Never use flowers and fruits to garnish any dish but a sweet 
one. Nasturtitmis are the exception. They really belong to the 
cress family and combine better with meat and vegetables. 

341 



THE MODERN CLUB 



"Toast can be garnished by lightly buttering and then 
sprinkling partly or wholly with minced green parsley. Other 
garnishes for meat dishes may be formed from hard-boiled eggs, 
tomato, cucumber and aspic jellies and pickles, which adapt 
themselves to countless forms. In cold weather it is excellent to 
have vegetable fritters served with meat dishes." 

Frangois' dinners are noted in several lands and he won great 
fame as head cook in a chateau in Brittany just before he came to 
America. He was asked for a menu of one of his most popular 
French dinners. He admitted that the most popular ones are a 
combination of French and Italian cooking — and here is a Frangois 
menu that is sure to bring exclamations of delight: 

First a salad of red and green peppers, large capers, tiny 
Sicilian olives, ripe and purple in hue, and anchovies. Then 
spaghetti served with a dark red tomato sauce, cooked with 
the luscious fruits de mer, known in this country as novgole — 
very like our own cherrystone clams. 

Next comes the fish — three kinds on a smoking platter, 
and if you are quite correct, you will try each variety. Next 
follows poultry or game. If it is chicken a la Frangois at his very 
best, it will be fried in oil and covered with a delicious sauce with 
"memories of garlic," which is the perfect flavor. Then there 
are tomatoes, fresh mushrooms, truffles and a tiny onion or two, 
and romaine salad. The fruit is eaten with the salad. Vol au vent 
is the favorite pastry dish, and like all Frangois pastries is manu- 
factured with oil. 



Simpson's-on-the-Strand 

No visit to London town is complete without a luncheon or 
dinner at Simpson's in the Strand, a place alive with traditions of 
the past and one where honest food is honestly cooked, with none 
of the masquerading under disguise of French sauces prevalent 
in so many places where imitation French cookery replaces the 
national dishes of Johnny Bull — a dignified place withal, and one 
that commands one's most infinite respect and commendation. 
Long live Simpson's in the kaleidoscopic, pulsating heart of 
London — the Strand ! 

342 



MISCELLANEOUS 



ON BREAKFASTING 

Only a very small percentage of the inhabitants of this 
sphere, one ventiires to say, are past-masters in the art of break- 
fasting. The rest of the world, upon seeing this, will rant and roar 
and laugh derisively. "Who is this person," they will say, "who 
sets herself up as an authority on breakfasts, and what does she 
know about it, anyway?" 

The successful business man, already inclined toward embon- 
point, will slap his hand on his knee and ejaculate, "Breakfast? 
Don't tell me anything about breakfast! Now, here's the 
perfect breakfast, to my mind: Half a grape-fruit, with the ice 
still on it, a good dish of oatmeal with thick cream and plenty 
of sugar, some scrambled eggs, country style, with sausages 
and some French fried potatoes, good coffee with plenty of 
cream, and some hot com muffins. Then take a plate of 
buckwheat cakes and maple syrup to top off on, and there you are 
— best breakfast in the world." 

Yes, the very best, according to this standard. A typical 
American breakfast; but a shade more deadly than the typical 
English breakfast. The latter, as eaten by thousands of smug 
Johnny Bulls every morning, accounts for the usual morning 
grouch which so many men, Britishers and their American cousins 
alike, strive to conceal behind the outspread pages of their morning 
papers at the breakfast table. They may conceal it outwardly, 
but its inward effect will be felt in after years. There is no 
grape-fruit, but there are often strawberries in season, and then a 
huge dish of porridge, then silver dishes with bacon, chops, grilled 
kidneys, fried eggs, boiled eggs, kippered herring, finnan haddie, 
and potatoes baked in their jackets, followed by toast and slathers 
of marmalade and jam, and sometimes flannel cakes with treacle. 
But the general effect is the same, be it in England or Canada or 
the United States — a breakfast disposed to breed gluttons and 
dyspepsia at the same time. 

Ah! it is so easy to infuse a little poetry into breakfast. 
We have already been told, many years since, of those wonderful 
Dutch breakfasts upon a balcony in Holland, overhanging some 
Dutch canal, under which a procession of wonderful, shining canal 
boats, with red geraniums in the window-boxes, pass in trained 
precision. We have prattled of those adorable French breakfasts 

343 



THE MODERN CLUB 



on a little terrace of some cafe, on the very sidewalk under a huge 
green and white bouquet of a blossoming chestnut tree, or, if in 
the country, in the shady grapevine arbor in a little Bousquet. 
Up, perched amid the cypresses of Fiesole or along the incom- 
parable, sunny cliffs of Capri, an Italian breakfast is tinged with 
romance, and as to a breakfast in Spain — well, who will ever forget 
that in the shadow of the Alhambra, or on the little vine-clad 
porch of the Reina Cristina at Algeciras ? 

Breakfast in foreign lands is always capable of being trans- 
formed into a poem, and, therefore, why bother with the prosaic 
and unromantic American middle-class breakfast, a polyglot 
combination of dishes borrowed from other nations and eaten in 
far too great haste, in nine times out of ten ? 

Let us stage a culinary poem, at sun-up, on a shady porch 
where one may look far out to sea, from his North-Shore lookout. 
A great, greenish blue glass Italian bowl, piled high with sparkling 
cubes of ice, will make a wonderful centerpiece on a June morning, 
especially when piled upon the cubes are luscious cherries, black- 
hearts and crimson and white, all at their best during June. Green 
leaves here and there add to the at tractiveness of the dish, and 
is anything ever quite so refreshing as cherries to start the day 
with? No? 

Then there shall be, if cereal is inevitable, little dishes of 
jellied cream of wheat or malt breakfast food, or even oatmeal 
molded in little cups or fancy molds and chilled pleasantly, then 
turned out upon the dishes, to be eaten with clotted cream. 

There may be a light omelet — a cheese omelet, for example, 
with little flakes of grated Gruyere over the top, or scrambled eggs 
with Gruyere flavoring them delicately. There may be tiny 
croquettes of either salt codfish or of flaked halibut or of salmon, 
small and daintily brown, and plenty of crisp hot toast, and coffee 
fresh from the percolator. 

Then to another. Stage this at the edge of a lake, upon a 
rustic breakfast porch overlooking some lake where the clouds, 
like wreaths of silver mist, are already rising from the water and 
enveloping the tops of the pointed firs. Wild strawberries appear 
with a little crown of strawberry leaves, to begin a perfect feast. 
There shall be no cereal to destroy their taste, but one jumps from 
strawberries direct to a large platterful of fried trout, the jewels 

344 



MISCELLANEOUS 



of their sides showing through the coating of crisp brown com meal 
in which they have been rolled. There are new potatoes baked 
with their jackets on, and there are thick squares of luscious corn 
bread. Oh, joy! And crisp little bits of salt pork garnishing the 
fish, and a dish of watercress from the brook near by, to eat with 
a bit of lemon juice and salt. What else? Nothing — for there 
won't be room for anything, saving, of course, the coffee, which 
one will want to start with the strawberries and end with the 
cigarettes. 

On, then, to Number Three. This may be anywhere, and is 
to start with little balls of ripe cantaloupe and watermelon scooped 
from the melons and chilled in a pan of cracked ice until wanted 
for serving. Then, they are heaped in grape-fruit glasses on a 
little heap of finely shaved ice, and, of course, if one had a bit 
of Maraschino left to pour over — well, then it would be food for 
the gods. 

For this breakfast one might have some little boxes made 
from very thick slices of toasted bread, the center of the slice 
carefully removed with a sharp knife before toasting. This shall 
be filled with creamed chicken hash made from the breast of 
chicken, and a carefully poached egg reposing upon it is an alluring 
adornment. 

Popovers, bursting over their cups in a frenzy of puffy, brown 
expansion, with plenty of sweet butter and some crisp little slices 
of bacon, will accompany this, and the coffee must be Vienna 
Coffee, made with hot cream and milk. This is sufficient for the 
ordinary mortal, but if there must be cakes, let them be Indian 
cakes with real maple syrup. 

By this time raspberries should be seasonable, and who first 
thought of chilling them and serving in very small, ripe canteloupes, 
also chilled? Can anything more alluring be imagined than 
raspberries in a dish of canteloupe? Try it and see. Whipped 
cream may be passed with the powdered sugar, but they are better 
without it. 

Then a delicious surprise may be made from baking some new 
potatoes of uniform size, scooping out the pulp, whipping it lightly, 
with plenty of seasoning, sweet butter, and some cream, and 
putting it back in the shells until they are nearly filled. Then lay 
in gently two little Deerfoot Farm grilled sausages, or three if it 

345 



THE MODERN CLUB 



will hold them, cover with a flaky bit of the potato, replace the 
shell on top, and garnish with one broiled mushroom and a couple 
of curls of crispy bacon, and serve in a bed of cress. Yes, there 
may be cereal with this, rice cakes served with guava jelly and 
cream cheese and the coffee, which every one seems to use for tea 
on this side of the water. But, really, for breakfast, a cup of 
fragrant Ceylon is not so bad, either. 

The last breakfast would better begin with strawberries, 
and large ones with the hulls left on and some of the prettiest 
vines, too, twining about them in a large glass dish of cracked ice. 
A little glass dish of powdered sugar is served to dip them in, and 
they are eaten from the hulls, as strawberries should be to get the 
real benefit of their flavor. 

Then, finnan haddie in cream served with little sippets of 
toast, or one might even substitute smoked beef in cream, salt 
codfish, or smoked salmon, if one prefers it. But whatever it is, 
let there be plenty of it and some toasted English muffins and some 
orange marmalade. Then, if it is a very hearty breakfast, and 
this is not enough, Swedish pancakes with raspberry jelly inside 
and powdered sugar without, rolled up tightly and eaten with 
thanksgiving and prayer. How easy for every breakfast to be a 
poem, and how hard after one of them to return to the French 
breakfast of coffee and a petit pain. 



SOME CULINARY SECRETS 

The real, dyed-in-the-wool epicure cannot make his way 
about the world, collecting recipes here and there, without learning 
many little secrets of the cuisine, secrets which, mayhap, have been 
stimibled upon by accident, but which, nevertheless, impart their 
cunning to a skilled cook and give her an added reputation as a 
"cordon bleu." 

One of the things the average American mistakes in, is his 
lavish use of this or that condiment or seasoning. He thinks that, 
if a little be good, a lot will be better; but there is his mistake, and 
he may learn a lesson from the French or Italian cook, who grades, 
to a nicety, the use of certain condiments and aromatic herbs, 
Indeed, it is their remarkable skill in using herbs which gives to 

346 



MISCELLANEOUS 



their cookery that incomparable flavor, delicate and elusive, which 
the American would do very well to study. 

Garlic, for instance, is something that should be used with 
the greatest of care. Simply rubbing a cut clove of garlic over the 
sides of a roasting-piece of lamb or veal will give it that delicate 
aroma which is more like a memory than a flavor. But a shade too 
much of it and the effect is spoiled. The same is true of sage, 
of thyme and marjoram, indeed, of all herbs. 

A bachelor, who loves his kitchenette and is always experi- 
menting, gives his method of transforming a "flat-tasting" 
oyster stew into a poem. It is nothing more or less than a 
couple of slices of lemon with the rind left on, which he plunges 
into the saucepan when the stew comes to its first boil after the 
milk has been added. Not sufficient to curdle the milk, the tart 
lemon and the aromatic oil in the rind give just enough of a soupgon 
of lemon to redeem the stew from its mildness. 

This same bachelor, who makes luscious ice cream from the 
sweetened pulp of strawberries and thick cream, adds, also, the 
juice of two lemons and a grating of the rind— and presto! the 
cream takes on new character at once. The same with banana 
ice cream into which a wineglassful of good old gin — if such a 
thing is left in the cellar— has been mixed. No one who has ever 
eaten banana ice cream done in this fashion will ever call it flat 
again. 

Another wrinkle is to put the grated cheese for tomato sauce 
or meat sauce— or at least a half of the cheese intended to garnish 
the dish— directly into the sauce itself, allowing it to heat long 
enough to melt the cheese and blend its flavor subtly with that of 
the peppers and onions, dried mushrooms and garlic, and tomatoes 
and chicken livers, and other ingredients of the beloved Italian 
sauce. 

The Italians always cut their ham, instead of cross-grained, 
as Americans do, the long way of the ham, claiming that the 
flavor is better thus— and so, indeed, it seems to those who have 
tried it. 

Almost every cook who has tasted Italian salad in her pet 
restaurant likes to make a platter of it at home sometimes, with 
its ripe little SiciHan olives, tomatoes, peppers which have been 
roasted in the oven and their skins removed before serving in the 

347 



THE MODERN CLUB 



salad, the cold tongue and salami and other ingredients, the pikce 
de resistance of which, of course, is the anchovies and herrings. 
But she wonders why the little fish are always so salt as to take 
away the pleasure of their eating, so the secret of the Italian cook 
may be whispered to her — he soaks the salted fish overnight in 
sweet milk ! Then removes the skin and bones and cuts in small 
pieces. 

If chicken to be smothered or fried is soaked half an hour in 
milk, it will well repay one for this slight extra trouble. It should 
be wiped dry, dredged with seasoned flour, and gently fried in 
butter, to be fit for the King, or the President of the United States. 



Extracts compiled by Mrs. Harold DeLancey Downs 
"THE POLYGLOT EPICURE" 

If the "Polyglot Epicure" will accustom himself to strange 
tongues and order the following dishes in the cities mentioned, he 
will have specialties for which they are famous and will obtain a 
very liberal education in the cuisines of the countries. 

Caen, Tripes k la Mode de Caen. Boulogne-sur-Mer, Sole 
Dieppoise, Sole Normande, or Sole au Vin Blanc. Dieppe, Moules 
Marini^res, Coquille Ste. Jacques, Faisan Normande. Le Havre, 
Ecrevisses Bordelaises. Trouville, Homard a I'Americaine. 
Rouen, Canneon Rouennaise. Cherbourg, Noisette de Pre Sal6. 
Mont St. Michel, Omelette Poularde. Dinard, Langoustes or 
fried eels known as Equilles. The Loire country boasts Rillettes 
de Tours, little goose-liver p^t6s beloved of epicures. Bordeaux, 
Potage Chapon Fin, and Biarritz, Friture de Pays. Marseilles, 
Bouillabaisse and the various delicious little shellfish sold in the 
street or at the restaurants along the quais. Praires, Clovisses, 
Violets de Mer — these are best. The Riviera, Mostelle k I'Anglaise. 
Monte Carlo, Crdme de Langoustines. 



348 



'We may live without poetry, music and art; 
We may live without conscience and live without heart; 
We may live without friends; we may live without books 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks." — Owen Meredith 

Mrs. S. Blair Luckie 
Vice-President, Eastern District 




014 488 241 6 



rM^f 



''i-/>^^^^1 



'^tM 



hr 



,'<-\>j!> 



O^^t' 






l'-\''i 
\^;, 



Wit) >;,',? 






i^5^: 



►M' 



I'Cltt 



