LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE ' 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 

C O R N E LL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, NEW YORK 




CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




3 1924 050 717 192 



RETURN TO 
ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 

ITHACA, N. Y. 




B Cornell University 
B Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924050717192 



PRACTICAL COOKERY 



A COMPILATION OF 

Principles of Cookery and Recipes 

AND 

THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE 
OF THE TABLE 



DEPARTMENT OF 

FOOD ECONOMICS AND NUTRITION 

KANSAS STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE 



FIFTH EDITION 

(Revised) 



Manhattan 

Department of Printing 

Kansas State Agricultural College 

1921 

3 

Public- TioNG Office 

tinwoni ne Wnft,lE EcCfrJlVilCS 



COPYRIGHT, 1921, BY THE DEPARTMENT OF FOOD 

ECONOMICS AND NUTRITION 

KANSAS STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE 



STBUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT OF STOVES 

Of first importance in good cooking is efficient manage- 
ment of the application of heat. An understanding of the 
structure of the modern apparatus for this purpose is necessary 
to its skillful management. 

A Coal stove or range IB an iron box arranged to confine 
fire and the heat from it, to make it more effective and economi- 
cal for cooking. 

The fire box usually extends across one end of the range 
and is about twelve inches deep. The lining on the sides and 
ends, which is of fire brick or cast iron, is made to withstand 
the high temperature of direct contact with the fire. When 
hot water connections are desired, one side lining is replaced 
by a hollow Iron box called a water front or a water back, de- 
pending on position (see illustration). The bottom is a grate, 
perforated for circulation of air and movable to allow the 
easy removal of waste. In general, this consists of two tri- 
angular bars, perforated on one side with holes and on another 
with slots. These turn on a cog managed from the front of 
the range, so that as they turn an opening is pade between 
them through which the clinkers slip down into the ash pan. 
The round holes are turned uppermost to form the bottom of 
the fire box when wood is the fuel used. When coal is used, 
more draft Is necessary and the slots should form the bottom. 

The ash pan, which is below the fire box, is a removable 
pan which collects ashes and cinders from the fire box. 

The ovens occupy the remainder of the box part of the 
range and are heated by currents of hot air passing around 
and above them. 

The dampers on a range, control the amount of heat and 
its application. These are of three kinds: creative and check, 
to regulate draft, and directive, to direct the current of air. The 
creative dampers are found below the fire box and are primar- 
ily to feed the fire with air. When these are opened the air 



6 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

enters easily, but when closed the air mnst be drawn in 
through closed spaces thut are not air tight. The check dam- 
pers are always above the fire box and when open allow cold 
air to enter and act as a check upon the fire, but closed they are 
negative in action. The directive damper is located at the place 
where the stove pipe connects with the stove and can be seen 
by removing the lid directly in front of the stove pipe. Open- 




Front view of a rai)ge showing the arrangement of its parts. 
The arrows indicate the direction of the air currents with the di- 
rective damper closed. At the left Is shown the method of heat- 
ing water ^ith a hot-water front. 

Ing this, damper allows the heated air to rise directly up the 
chimney, thus Increasing the rate of fuel combustion. When 
the directive damper is closed the heated air n»ust travel across 



STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT OF STOVES 7 

the top of the stove, down the end, across the bottom of the 
oven, and then up the projection of the stove pipe which ex- 
tends down the back of the range and connects with the space 
below the oven. In this way the oven and the entire top of the 
range are heated and the rate of combustion is* slightly de- 
creased. This prevents waste of fuel by utilizing the heat as 
long as possible before it escapes: 



CHtcK tmm --> I 



DincrwE DnnPtK 



7 



T 



oorN 



4^-J). 



WARMiriG OOEH 



^ 



^ 



End view of a range showing the projection of the pipe down 
the back of the range to connect with the bottom of the oven. The 
arro.vs show the direction of the air-currents with the directive 
damper closed. With the directive damper open the heated air 
would rise directly up the pipe. 

Combustion or burning is the combination of the fuel 
with oxygen, accompanied by light and heat. Each substance 
that burns has its definite kindling point or the temperature 



g PRACTICAL COOKERY 

to which it must be heated to maintain combustion. Those 
which have a low kindling point, as paper or soft wood sticks, 
are more easily lighted than those which have a high kindling 
point, as hard wood or coal. A free supply of air is necessary 
to furnish the oxygen for combustion. 

To build a fire, therefore, the grate must be free from 
ashes and clinkers. The fuel must be placed with that of the 
lowest kindling point at the bottom, and arranged so that the 
air has access to a large surface. The creative dampers and 
the directive damper must be open. As soon as the fire is well 
started, the directive damper shoi(ld be closed and remain so 
except when it is desired to Increase rapidly the rate of com- 
bustion. Too much heat around the oven should be remedied 
by decreasing the rate of combustion. This is accomplished 
by first closing the creative dampers, then opening the check 
damper in front of the fire box, and then the check damper in 
the pipe. As a last resort (which should not be necessary if 
fuel is added carefully, the oven door may be opened slightly. 

A gas stove or range is relatively simple in its manage- 
ment as compared to the coal or wood stove. It saves time 
and labor in starting a fire and can be extinguished as soon as 
the cooking is done, thus saving fuel as well as production of 
unnecessary heat in summer. With gas, the flame Is applied 
directly to the part to be heated, thus saving the management 
of directing currents of air. This direct application, however, 
does not give as uniform an oven heat as where there is only 
the heated air in contact. Gas is supplied to the range from 
a main pipe which divides to feed the several burners. The 
supply is controlled by gas cocks located near each burner. The 
burner contains numerous openings arranged to spread the 
flame over a larger surface and usually has a value which reg- 
ulates the supply of air. The flame should be blue. A yellow 
flame Indicates incomplete combustion and the unburned car- 
bon win be deposited on cooking utensils or on parts of the 
range. To remedy this, increase the supply of oxygen by open- 
ing the air valve on the burner. When the contents of kettle 
or saucepan begin to boll, turn the gas as low as possible with- 



THE PIRELESS COOKER 9 

out checking the boiling. Light the oven burners before put- 
ting in the food — five minutes before broiling or toasting, ten to 
fifteen minutes before baking. To reduce the heat of the oven, 
turn down both burners as low as possible without danger of 
their being extinguished or turn out the back burner. All gas 
cocks should be kept closed when not in use. 

Gasoline and kerosene stoves are similar in principle and 
management to gas stoves. In these the liquid fuel is supplied, 
but is converted into gas by heated metal in the gasoline stove 
and by evaporation from a wick in the kerosene stove. The 
generation of this gas produces deposits of unburned carbon 
which interfere with efficient burning. Extreme care, there^ 
fore, is required to keep all parts brushed free from soot. 

Alcohol stoves, which may be either the kerosene or gaso- 
line type of a stove, are much cleaner and require less time and 
effort for efficiency. 



THE FIRELESS COOKER 

The fireless cooker is an apparatus for conserving the heat 
o£ cooking foods, thus economizing fuel. It also saves the time 
and energy of the housewife and unnecessary heat in the 
kitchen. 

It consists of one or more cooking compartments fitted 
with utensils and insulated to retain the heat of foods intro- 
duced, thus finishing their cooking in their own heat. 

The management of a fireless cooker is very simple, since 
foods do not spoil with over cooking with a constantly lowering 
temperature and, if food is underdone, it may be reheated and 
put back. There is little evaporation of water from food cooked 
in a fireless cooker, therefore less water should be used than 
with direct heat. In baking with hot disks it is necessary to 
avoid overheating the disks, as enough heat may be confined 
in a compartment to Burn the food. It facilitates the browning 
of very moist foods if the cooker is opened after Ave minutes' 
baking, to allow part of the steam to escape. 



10 PRACTICAL COOKERY 



THE PRESSURE COOKER 

There are various types of pressure cookers on. the mar- 
ket. The cooker probably best adapted to family use has a 
capacity of about ten quarts. 

The steam pressure cooker is made of strong metal with 
a lid which can be securely fastened by clamps. It is equipped 
with a rack on which food ds placed for cooking and devices in 
the lid for regulating the steam pressure, namely the steam 
cock, the safety valve and the pressure gauge. Because the 
passing off of steam is hindered, the temperature within the 
cooker is raised and foods cooked in it will become tender 
more quickly. 

The pressure cooker has proven valuable in canning, Since 
the period of sterilization is shortened. It is also recommended 
for home cooking of dried fruits and vegetables, whole and 
cracked cereals, meats and highly fibrous vegetables. Good 
products are secured at a saving of time, labor and fuel. 



METHODS OF COOKERY 

Boiling is cooking in moist heat with a boiling liquid as the 
surrounding medium. A liquid is boiling when bubbles are 
breaking on the surface. In a slowly boiling liquid the bubbles 
are small; in a rapidly boiling liquid, large. There is no in- 
crease in temperature but more steam is formed in a rapidly 
boiling liquid. The temperature of boiling water at sea level 
is 212° F. or 100° C. This temperature is lessened by rise 
above sea level and increased, by solution of solids in the water. 

Simmering is cooking in moist heat with a simmering 
liquid as a surrounding medium. A liquid is simmering When 
bubbles are breaking just below the surface. The temperature 
of simmering water is 185° F. or 85° C. This temperature Is 
affected by the same conditions which change the boiling tem- 
perature. 



METHODS OF COOKING FOOD MATERIALS 11 

Stewing is tiie name applied to simmering in a small 
amount of water. 

Steaming is cooking in moist heat with steam as the sur- 
rounding medium. The steam may be applied directly to the 
food, as in a steamer, or to the vessel, as in a double boiler. 
The temperature of steam is 212° F. or 100° C, but owing to 
rapid condensation the temperature at which the food is cooked 
is a little less. 

Steeping is a process o£ extracting flavors of foods by add- 
ing boiling water and allowing to stand. The temperature 
is always below the boiling point, decreasing gradually. 

Toasting is drying and browning the surface of food by 
direct contact with heat. The drying precedes the browning. 

Broiling Is cooking by direct contact with heat and is 
usually applied to meats. The surface is first seared and the 
cooking then continued at a lower temperature. Searing con- 
sists of rapidly exposing every part of the surface to heat in- 
tense enough to form a waterproof coating. Broiling is direct 
application of heat, while in pan-broiling the heat is applied 
by means of heated metal. 

Baking is cooking in the heat of an oven. The tempera- 
ture varies from 200°-600° F. or 93°-315° C, different oven 
heats being used for different foods. 

Roa,sting is the name applied to baking meats. 

Frying is cooking by immersion in smoking hot fat. The 
temperature varies from 375°-420° F. or 191°-215° C, differ- 
ent temperatures being used for different foods. 

Sauteing is cooking in a small quantity of hot fat. 



METHODS OF COMBINING FOOD MATERIALS 

stirring is a circular movement used to combine the wet 
and the dry ingredients of a recipe and to keep food from 
sticking and burning during cooking:. 

Beating is an over and over motion used to smooth the 
mixture and to introduce air. 



12 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Cutting is a horizontal motion with knives used for com- 
bining shortening and dry food without blending. 

Cutting and folding is a combination of two motions — 
cutting vertically through the mixture and turning over and 
over by sliding the spoon across the bottom of the mixing bowl 
each turn. 



MEASUREMENTS 



Level measurements make exact recipes possible because 
the quantity measured is uniform, the same table may be used 
for solids and liquids, and measures can be easily divided. 

A spoonful is a spoon level full. Use a straight-edged 
knife like the spatula to obtain a level surface. Half a spoon- 
ful is a spoonful divided lengthwise. One fourth of a spoonful 
is a half spoonful divided crosswise, the division line a little 
nearer the handle end of the bowl. 

A cupful is a cup level full. Pill the cup and level the top 
with a knife. 

Do not shake or press down dry material, as flour or 
sugar. Measure flour after sifting once. To measure a fat, as 
butter, by the cupful, pack solidly and level. To measure less 
than one half cupful, use a- tablespoon. Pack solidly into the 
spoon and level. 

A speck is what may be held on the tip of a vegetable 
knife. 



TABLE OF EQUIVALENTS AND ABBREVLITIONS 

3 tsp. = 1 tbsp. c. = cupful 

1 6 tbsp. = 1 c. tbsp. = tablespoonf ul 

2 c. = 1 pt. tsp. = teaspoonf ul 

2 pts. = 1 qt. spk. = speck 
4qts. = lgal. lb. = pound 

2gal. = lpk. qt. = quart 

*2 c.sugar = l lb. pt. = pint 

*4 c. flour = l lb. gal. = gallon 
2 c.butter= 1 lb. pk.=:peck 



♦Approximately. 



MEASUREMENTS 13 

One medium sized lemon contains from four to four and 
one-half tablespoonfuls of juice. 

One medium sized orange contains from Ave to eight 
tablespoonfuls of juice. 

One egg contains about three tablespoonfuls unbeaten 
yolk and white. 



PRACTICAL COOKERY 



BEVERAGES 

A beverage is any drink. Water is the natural beverage 
and forms the- greater portion of all others. 

A beverage may be prepared by one of three methods 

By infusion, which is made by pouring boiling water over 
the material used, covering and allowing to stand in a warm 
place until the flavor is extracted. Freshly boiled water must 
be used in making an infusion, for long boiling renders the 
water flat and insipid. 

By decoction, which is made by placing the material in 
cold water and bringing .to the boiling point. Freshly boiled 
w.ater is then added. 

By a mixture, or combination of materials. 

Syrup may be used in sweetening cold beverages, because 
sugar Is not readily soluble in cold liquids. 

BOILED COFFEE WITH EGG NO. I 

1 c. coffee, finely ground 8 c. cold water 

1 eee or 3 eee shells* 

Mix coffee, egg and 2 cupfuls of cold water. Add remain- 
der of water and allow to come gradually to boiling point. Boil 
3 minutes. Draw to back of range and keep hot 5 minutes. 
Add % cupful of cold water and let stand 1 minute to settle. 
Strain into heated coffee pot. Coffee may be served with 
sugar and cream or hot milk (French style). Cold milk will 
spoil any coffee. 

BOILED COFFEE IVITH EGG NO. II 

5 c. coffee 4 i;. boiling water 

i egg I c. cold water 

Add the beaten egg to coffee and mix thoroughly with cold 
water. Pour this mixture into rapidly boiling water and stir 
carefully to prevent mixture from boiling over. Boil three min- 
utes, simmer four minutes and strain into heated coffee i)ot. 



'The particles of coffee adhere to the coagulated albumen of the 
egg, or that portion which adheres to the shell, and tlie' decoction 
is cleared. 



BEVERAGES 15 

FILTEREni COFFEE 

1 f|t. boiling, water i u. finely ground cofCee 

Put coffee in strainer of pot. Gradually pour in water a 
half cupful at a time, keeping the pot covered between times. 
The coffee may be poured through a second time if desired. 

AFTER DINNER COFFEE 

Coffee made double strength and served clear. 

TEA 

4 tsp. tea 4 c. water 

Scald the utensil, put in the tea leaves and pour over them 
fresh water Just brought to the boiling point. Cover and steep 
3 to 5 minutes in a warm place. Do not allow to boil. Strain 
and serve at once. This may be served with cream and sugar 
or with lemon. The strength may be regulated to suit each in- 
dividual by combining with freshly boiled water at the table. 

CHOCOLATE 

11 sq. Chocolate 4J c. scalded milk 

4 tbsp. sugar Spk. salt 

IS c. boiling water 

Melt chocolate over hot water. Add sugar and salt. Add 
water gradually, stirring constantly. Boil until smooth and 
glossy. Pour into milk, reheat and beat with Dover beater 
just before serving. 

COCOA 
4 tbsp. cocoa or grated 1 c. water 

chocolate Spk. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar J tsp. vanilla 

3 c. milk 

Mix cocoa, sugar and salt. Add boiling water and boil 
until smooth and glossy. Add milk and heat to scalding. 3eat 
with Dover beater and add vanilla just before serving. Gar- 
nish with whipped cream or marshmallows. 

BREIAKFAST COCOA WITH EGG 

11 tsp. cocoa % c. milk 

11 tsp. sugar Spk. salt 

2 tbsp. boiling water 1 egg 

Mix cocoa, sugar and salt, and add water gradually while 
stirring constantly. Bring to the boiling point and let boil 1 



le PRACTICAL COOKERY 

minute. Turn into scalded milk and beat 1 minute. Break 
egg, beat until liglit and frothy. Add cocoa gradually, beating 
constantly. 

KOUMISS 

J cake compressed yeast 1 qt. milk 

1 tbsp. water i tbsp. sugar 

Make a thin syrup of sugar and water, cooking 1 minute. 
Soak yeast cake in 2 tablespoonfuls of milk TC-SO" F. or 21°- 
»2° G. Heat remainder of the milk to 90° P. or 32° C. Add 
other ingredients and mix w«M. Nearly fill sterile jars and seal. 
Place in upright position for 12 hours at 70° P. or 21° C. After 
24 hours, serve cold.' 

EGGNOG 

1 egg Spk. salt 
3 t-bsp. sugar Flavoring 
% u. milk 

Beat egg thoroughly, add sugar, saK and flavoring. Add 

milk gradually. Strain and serve. 

FRUIT NECTAR 

2 tbsp. lemon juice 2 tbsp. water 

2 tbsp. orange juice i c. cold water 

3 tbsp. shredded pineapple i c. shaved Ice 
} u, sugar 

Cook sugar and water to the soft-ball stage. Add fruit 

juices and cold water. Strain, add shaved ice, and serve. 

FOUNDATION PUNCH 

8 oranges 2 c. sugar 

4 lemons Water to make 1 gal. 

Squeeze the juice from the fruit and strain. Make the 
sugar into a syrup. Combine sugar and fruit juice, and add 
water. Pour a small quantity into the punch bowl, add a 
block of ice, and pour remainder of punch over the ice. Varia- 
tions may be made by adding other fruit juices to it. The 
juices should be sweetened to taste. 

GRAPE PUNCIH 

1 part foundation punch 1 part grape juice 

STRAWBERRY PUNCH 

1 part foundation punch 3 parts strawberry julea 



BBVERAGBS 17 

RASPBBRRY PUNCH 

1 part foundation punch 3 parts raspberry juice 

MINT PUNCH 

1 gal. foundation punch 1 doz. fresh mint sprigs 

Pour hot syrup over chopped mint, let stand 5 minutes, 
and str'ain before adding to the fruit juice. A few sprigs of 
tresb mint may be added for garnish. 

TEA PUNCH 

1 part foundation punch 3 parts Russian tea 

CRANBERRY PUNCH 
3 parts foundation punch 1 part cranberrjr juice 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH 
3 parts foundation punch 1 part pineapple juice 

CHERRY PUNCH 

3 parts foundation punch 1 part cherry juice 

grape: nectar 
1 c. grape juice 1 lemon 

1 c. water 4 tijsp. sugar 

1 orange 

Combine sugar, orange, lemon and water as for founda- 
tion punch. Add grape juice and chill. This may be served 
as a first course or as grape punch. 

RUSSIAN TEA 

1 pt. lemonade 1 pt. tea 

Combine, Ice and serve. 

LEMONADE 

i u. sugar 1 qt. water 

3 lemons 

Make a syrup by boiling the sugar, V4, cupful of water and 

a slice of lemon. Cool. Add lemon juice and remainder of 

water. Ice and serve, garnished with a thin slice of lemon, 

a candled cherry or a sprig of mint. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE 

} c. Irish moss 2 c. holing water 

4 tbsp. lemon juice Sugar to taste 

Pick over and wash moas and soak % hour. Pour ojt 



IS 



PRACTICAL COOKERY 



■waXer, add boiling water, cook below boiling point until 
syrupy. Strain and add lemon juice and sugar. Serve hot. 

APPLK WATER 

1 large sour apple Lemon juice 

i c, boiling water Sugar 

Wipe and core apple. Fill the cavity with sugar. Bake 
in small dish with enough water to prevent burning. When 
soft, mash, add boiling water and let stand 20 minutes. 
Strain through cheesecloth and add lemon juice to taste. 

CINNAMON WATER 

1 oz. stick cinnamon 1 pt. boiling water 
Boil together 15 minutes. Strain.' Serve hot or cold. 

TOAST W^ATER 

2 slices of stale bread 1 c. boiling water 

Cut stale bread in 14-inch slices and remove crusts. Put 
in a pan and bake in slow oven until thoroughly dried and well 
browned. Break in small pieces. Add water, cover and let 
stand one hour. Squeeze through cheesecloth. Season with 
salt and serve hot or cold. 

RICE WATER 

2 tbsp. rice Spk. salt 

3 c. cold water 

Wash rice. Soak 30 minutes in cold water, heat gradually 
to boiling point, let boil until rice is soft. Strain, reheat, sea- 
son with salt, -and if too thick, dilute with boiling water. 

HOT SPICED MILK 

J c. milk Raisina (if allowed) 

Spices as desired Sugar to taste 

Scald the milk in a double boiler; add small amount of 
nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves or mace; sugar to taste. Strain 
carefully before serving. 

ALBUMEN WATER 

1 egg white I c. Ice water 

Cut white of egg to set free albumen, that it may easily 
dissolve as water is added gradually. Strain and serve. A 
few grains of salt may be added it desired. 



BEVERAGES 19 

JUNKET OR RENNET WHEY 

i o. milk J junket tablet or 

1 tsp. cold water 1 tsp. liquid rennet 

Heat milk until lukewarm; add junket tablet or rennet 
dissolved in cold water. Let stand in warm place until set — 
about 15-20 minutes; then stir until thoroughly separated. 
Strain through a double thickness of cheesecloth. 

BOTTLED BEEF JUICE 

Cut round steak Into small particles or put through a meat 
grinder. Place in a double boiler, add small portion of salt 
and allow to stand % hour, then gradually heat, keeping be- 
low boiling point to avoid coagulation of protein. Squeeze 
out juice and serve either hot or cold. One fourth pound of 
beet will make about 2 tablespoonfuls of juice. 

BEEF JUICE 

Panbroil pieces of thick round steak. Cut in pieces of oon- 
Tcnlent size and gash on botl;i sides. Put into meat press or 
lemon squeezer and express the juice. Turn juice into cup set 
in saucepan of hot water. Season with salt and serve at once. 
Care must be taken that the cup does not become sufficiently 
hot to coagulate the albuminous juices. 



20 PRACTICAL, COOKERY 



FEurr 

A fruit is a pulpy substance enclosing the seeds of plants. 
Most ripe fruits are edible in the rav state but may be cooked 
to change their flavor; to soften the frame work; or to add to 
their keeping quality. 

Before cooking, some preparation is necessary. After the 
fruit is thoroughly washed the. skin may or may not be re- 
moved, as desired. Some fruits can be peeled or the skin may 
be removed without any of the pulp; other fruits must be pared, 
or the skin and a portion of the pulp removed with a knife. 
A silver knife should be used to prevent discoloration. Many 
fruits, after paring, discolor when exposed to the air; this can 
be prevented by dropping the pieces into cold water. 

Gentle boiling, in which enough water is added to the 
fruit to prevent its burning, is the most common method of 
cooking fruit. If, in cooking, the desire is to soften the fruit, 
still keeping its original shape, simmering or steaming are 
used, or boiling in a syrup. Baking is also used. By this 
method the fruit is kept whole and cooked in a small quantity 
of syrup. Besides the softening, the browning of the surface 
adds to the flavor. Prying and sautfiing are other methods of 
cooking fruits. 

Dried fruits may be cooked in similar ways but they should 
always be soaked for at least twelve hours to let them absorb 
water to replace that which has been previously extracted. 
They must be washed thoroughly before soaking, for they 
should be cooked in the water in which they were soaked. 
Sugar causes the fruit to burn more easily, so it is usually not 
added until just before removing from the fire. 

BREAKFAST ORAIVGX: 

Wipe orange and cut in halves crosswise. Cut around the 
pulp in each section with a small sharp-pointed knife. Sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Place on a small fruit plate or in a 
glass fruit bowl. If the latter is used, shaved ice may be 
placed around the orange. 



FRUIT 81 

ORANGES SECTIONS 

Peel an orange. Remove the white portion. With a 
sharp-pointed knife separate the sections. Serve on a fruit 
plate with the sections arranged around powdered sugar. 

CURLED ORANGB 

Wipe orange. With a sharp knife cut the skin in length- 
wise sections. Begin at the blossom end and cut to within an 
inch of stem end. Loosen skin and turn in end of each sec- 
tion. Remove tough, white portion from pulp. Serve on fruit 
t>late. 

PICNIC orange: 

Wipe orange. Equal distance from^tem and blossom ends 
cut a band ^ inch wide. Remove all skin and tough, white 
portion except band. Cut the band between two sections and 
separate the sections, leaving them attached to the band. Ar- 
range on fruit plate. 

GRAPK FRUIT 

Wipe grape fruit and cut in halves crosswise. With a 
grape fruit knife or sharp-pointed knife remove the seeds. Cut 
pulp from skin, starting in each section at white core and cut- 
ting to the outer edge, across the end and back to the center. 
With scissors snip each piece of white section close to center 
white core, then cut out core close to bottom. Fill hole with 
sugar shortly before serving. 

FRUIT SALPICON 

Combinations of the following fruits may be used: Equal 
amounts of oranges, pineapple, grape fruit, white cherries, 
banana and white grape. Dice, chill and serve in stemmed 
sherbet glasses, or orange baskets or shells placed on a fruit 
iriate. 

APPLE SAUCE 

, . 1 apple Thin shaving: of lemon 

Z tbsp. sugar rind or few drops o( 

i c. water lemon juice 

Wipe, pare, quarter and core apple. Make a syrup by 
boiling sugar and water with lemon. Add apple and enough 
water to barely cover apple. Watch carefully during cooking 



22 PRACTICAL, COOKERY 

and remove as soon as tender. Cook syrup longer, if necessary 
to thicken it, and pour over the apples. A few whole cloves 
may be used instead of lemon, if preferred. 

APPLE BALLS 

1 largre apple 2 tbsp. sugar 

i t. water Pew drops lemon juice 

Wipe and pare apple. With a vegetable cutter, cut out as 
many balls as possible. Cook until tender in a syrup made 
from the sugar, water and lemon juice; drain and dip in melted 
currant jelly. Cook the trimmings of the apples in a small 
quantity of water; pass through the sieve and simmer in the 
syrup until quite thick. Arrange the marmalade thus made 
about the balls and sprinkle with chopped nuts. 

SPICBD APPLES 

i tsp. lemon juice 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 apple i c. water 

2 tbsp. red-hot candies 

Wash, pare and core the apple. Place in small kettle with 
sugar and water. When nearly tender, add candies and con- 
tinue boiling until apple is of desired color. More red-hots may 
be used. Apples cooked in this way may have the cavity filled 
with chopped pickle and be served as a relish. 

B.\KBD APPLES 

Wipe, pare and core sour apples. Put in baking dish, fin 
cavities with sugar and allow 6 drops of lemon juice to each 
apt^e. Cover bottom of dish with water. Bake in a thoderate 
oven until soft, basting every 8 minutes with syrup in the dish. 
Serve hot or cold, with or without sugar and cream. 

PEERLESS BAKED APPLES 

1 apple 2 tsp. sugar 

1 tsp. Jelly 1 tsp. butter 

Wash and pare apple. Remove core, being careful not to 
cut through the blossom end. Place in a baking dish. Fill 
the cavity with jelly, sugar and butter. Cover bottom of dish 
with water. Bake in moderate oven, basting frequently with 
liquid in dish. 



FRUIT 23 

SAUTBD A.PPLE3S 

6 apples Salt to taste 

2 tbsp. butter 

Wash apples, cut in '^-Inch slices. Melt butter in frying 
pan and, when hot, put in apples. Cook until tender. Add 
salt. 

CRANBEIRRY sauce: 

1 c. cranberries J o. sugar 

hi c. boiling water 

Pick over and wash cranberries. Put into a saucepan and 
add water. Cover and boil 10 minutes or until skins burst. 
Add sugar and boil up once. Care must be taken that they 
do not boil over Skim and cool 

BAKED RHUBARB 

J 0. rhubarb 3 tbsp. sugar 

Wash rhubarb, cut into %-inch pieces without removing 
outer skin. Put into baking dish and sprinkle with sugar. 
Cover closely and bake in slow oven until tender. 

BAKBD BANANAS 

Remove from skin. Place in buttered baking dish. 
Sprinkle with sugar and bits of butter, and if desired a few 
drops of lemon juice. Cover bottom of dish with water and 
bake until slightly brown. 

FRIED BANANAS 

Remove from skin. Cut in halves crosswise. Roll in egg, 
then crumbs, egg, and crumbs. Pry to golden brown. 

STEWED PRUNES 

8 prunes I In. stick cinnamon 

1 whole clove i tbsp.. sugar 

Put prunes to soak in cold water. Let stand 30 minntes 
and then wash thoroughly Cover with cold water and soak 
24 hours. Put on to cook in water in .which they were soaked. 
Add spices; cover and simmer until tender. Add sugar and 
cook 5 minutes. Take out prunes and boil syrup to thicken, 
if necessary A little lemon juice may be used for flavoring. 



24 PRACTICAL, COOKERY 

STEWED APRICOTS 

8 large apricots 2 tbsp. sugar 

Put dried apricots to soak in cold water. L^t stand 3« 
minutes and then wash thoroughly. Cover with cold water and 
soak 12 hours. Put on to cook In water in which they were 
soaked. Cover and cook until tender. Add sugar and cook S 
minutes. Take out fruit, if necessary to hoil syrup to thicken 

STEWESD FIGS 

8 figs 1 tbsp. sugar 

Wash figs thoroughly. Cover with cold water and soak 2-4 
hours. Cook in water in which they were soaked, until tender. 
Add sugar and cook until clear. 

CRANBBRRIBS AND RAISINS 

1 c. cranberries } c. sugar 

i c. raisins J c. water 

Cook as for cranberry sauce. 



SUGAR COOKERY 25 



SUGAR COOKERY 

Success in candy making is dependent upon an understand- 
ing of the effects of certain conditions on tlie boiling of sugar 
and tlie effect of certain ingredients on boiling sugar. The 
primary object to be attained ia to prevent crystallization 
of the syrup. This may be accomplished by using glucose 
instead of cane or beet sugar (Glucose or corn syrup is a simple 
sugar syrup which does not readily crystallize.); or by the ad- 
dition of a little acid or cream of tartar to the cane or beet 
sugar. Sugar when boiled in the presence of acid is changed 
into simple sugars. The presence of a single crystal of sugar 
or agitation of the boiling syrup will oftentimes start a chain 
of crystals which will granulate the whole mass. 

GENERAL, SUGGESTIONS 

The following suggestions are in accord with these facts 
and will prove helpful if followed: Use the best quality of 
sugar. Use a thicli saucepan in which to boil sugar. Never 
stir the syrup after the sugar is dissolved; the only object in 
stirring is to prevent the sugar from settling and burning when 
first placed over the fire. Never allow crystals to remain on 
the side of the pan; keep them wiped off with a clean, wet 
cloth. Never shake or move the kettle while the syrup is boil- 
ing. Never when pouring out the syrup allow any of the 
scrapings to fall into it. Add a little acid or cream of tartar 
to prevent granulation. If candy grains, add water to soften 
it and reboil. 

TO TEST THE STAGES OP SUGAR COOKERY 

These tests are made by dropping a small portion of the 
•ymp into cold water. Each stage or test corresponds to a 
definite temperature as indicated by a thermometer. 

Soft ball. — When mixture win make up into a soft ball, 
836" F. or 113° C. 

Hard ball. — When mixture forms a firm or rather hard 
ball, 254° F or 123° C. 



26 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Soft crack. — When mixture becomes crisp and too hard to 
form a ball, 260° F. or 127° C. 

Hard crack. — When mixture will crack or break when 
crushed between fingers, 290° F. or 143° C. 

Caramel. — A fifth stage in sugar cookery is known as the 
caramel stage. This may be reached by boiling the syrup be- 
yond the hard-crack stage or by melting dry sugar over direct 
heat. The test for this stage is the appearance of golden brown 
color. 348° F or 176° C. 



CA.NDT 27 



CANDY 

SYRUP 

1 c. and 1 tbsp. sugar l c. water 

Boil rapidly 5 minutes. Cool and bottle for use. Makes 
1 cup syrup. 

CARAItHSL SYRUP 

1 c. sugar, caramelized 1 c. boiling water 
Carefully add water to sugar by pouring water slowly into 

hot sugar, and boil to a thick syrup. 

PEANUT nRITTI.B 

2 c. sugar 1 u. alielled peanuts or 

1 pt. unshelled peanuts 
Shell and chop peanuts. Put sugar in a smooth frying 
pan and stir constantly with the bottom of the bowl of a spoon 
until melted to a golden brown syrup. Remove immediately 
from the fire, stir in the nuts and pour onto the bottom of a 
tin; press into shape with buttered knives and mark into 
squares. 

HOARHOUND CANDY 

2 tsp. pressed hoarhound 1 ^. sugar 
1 c. boiling water 

Pour water on hoarhound. Let st^nd 1 minute. Strain 
through fine cloth. Add sugar to strained hoarhound water. 
Boil to the caramel stage. Pour out and cut in squares before 
it hardens. 

MOLASSES TAFFY 

3 c. sugar h tsp cream of tartar 
1 u. molasses 5 c. butter* 

1 c. hot water } tsp. soda 

1 tbsp. vinegar i tsp. vanilla 

Mix sugar, molasses, water and vinegar When mixture 
bolls, add cream of tartar. When nearly done, add butter and 
soda. Cook till brittle when tested in cold water Pour into 



•The term butter Is used in recipes throughout this book la 
the sense of butter or butter substitute 



28 PRACTICAt, COOKERY 

oiled pans. When cold enough to handle, add flavoring and 
pull. 

VINKGAR TAFPy 

2 c. sugar 2 tbsp. butter 

i c. vinegar 

Put butter in kettle. When melted, add sugar and vinegar 
Stir until sugar is dissolved. Boil to the soft-crack or hard- 
crack stage when tested in cold water.* Turn onto an oiled 
platter to cool. When cool enough to handle, pull until por- 
ous and white. Cut in small pieces with scissors. Place on 
oiled plates to cool. 

PVFFBD RICB BAI'IiS 

} c. molasses 1 c. puffed rice 

2 tbsp sugar 

Boil sugar and molasses to hard ball. Mix with puffed 

rice which has been crisped in oven. Form in balls or squares 

PEANUT CANDT 

3} c. sugar 3 c. shelled peanuts 

1% c. water 4 tbsp. butter 

) c corn syrup 2 tsp. vanilla 

4 tsp. soda 

Mix sugar, corn syrup and water and stir until it boils. 
Wash down sides of kettle, cover and cook 3 minutes. Remove 
cover, add butter and cook to the caramel stage. Add pea- 
nuts, vanilla and soda. Take from the fire, pour onto oiled 
platter and. when cool, cut in bars or pour onto back of oiled 
tin and shape in bars with knife. 

BUTTER SCOTCH 

1 v;. sugar 2 tbsp. boiling water 

} c. molasses i c. butter 

1 tbsp. vinegar 

Boil ingredients together, without stirring, to the bard- 
crack stage. Turn into a buttered tin. When slightly cod. 
imark into squares. A small piece of vanilla bean cooked in t^ 
mixture will improve it. 



'Chewing taffy should be cooked to the 8oft-crax;k stage «a« 
hard taffy to the hard-crack Btage. 



CANDY 29 

PBNNVCCI 

1 c. brown Bugrar i c. walnut meats 
J 0. water 10 drops vanilla 

2 tbsp. butter 

Boil sugar, water and butter together, without stirring, to 
the soft-ball stage. Remove from fire when cool; add vanilla 
and beat until creamy Add walnut meats and pour quickly 
into oiled tin. 

CHOCOLATK FUDGES 

1 li. sugar 1 tbsp. butter 

1 c. milk 1 tsp. vanilla 
h sq. chocolate 

Mix sugar, milk and chocolate and stir until chocolate is 
melted. Boil to the soft-ball stage. Add butter, remove from 
fire. When cool, add vanilla, beat until thick and creamy and 
pour into oiled tins. Cut in squares while soft. 

BIARSHlHAL,L,OW FTIDGB 

2 u. sug'ar 2 sq. chocolate 
1 0. cream or milk 1 tbsp. butter 

Cook sugar, milk and chocolate to soft-ball stage. Just 
before taking from fire, add butter. Add % pound marsh- 
mallows cut in small pieces; stir until it is thick and creamy 
Pour into oiled tins and cut in cubes. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

1 i;. brown sugar 5 c. butter 

2 sq. chocolate J o. corn syrup 
J c. milk or cream J tsp. vanilla 

Cook all the ingredients together, except vanilla, having 
heat moderate after boiling point is reached and stirring oc- 
casionally to prevent scorching. Boil to the soft-crack stage 
Remove from fire, add vanilla, pour into oiled tin and, when 
eool. cut in% inch squares. Wrap in paraffin paper 

B^NDANT 

1 c. sugar i tsp. cream of tartar 

i c water 

Mix ingredients, stir and heat gradually to boiling point. 
Boil, .without stirring, to the soft-ball stage. Wash oft sugar 
from sides of pan with fork wrapped In a cloth and dipped in 



30 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

hot water. Pour onto plate wet with cold water. Let cool, then 
beat with wooden spoon until white and creamy. Knead with 
hands until perfectly smooth. Place in a bowl, cover with a 
cloth which has been wrung out of water, but do not let cloth 
touch the fondant. Cover with heavy paper. Fondant may be 
kept indefinitely in this way if the cloth covering is occasional- 
ly dampened. 

UNCOOKED F03VDANT 

1 eee white J tsp. flavoring 

i tbsp. cold water 1 lb. powdered sugar 

Put egg, water and flavoring into a bowl. Beat with 
Dover beater. Add sugar gradually until stiff enough to 
knead. Shape for dipping. 

dUICK KOWDANT 

2h c. sugar 4 tsp. glycerin 

1} c. water 1 egg white 

4 or 5 drops acetic acid 

Dissolve sugar in water. Bring to a boil, add acetic acid 
and glycerm. Cover tightly and cook 10 minutes. Uncover 
and cook to the soft-ball stage. Pour onto wet platter and 
cool. Beat into this the well-beaten egg white and continue 
beating until stiff. Mold and dip at once. 

CREAIM CHERRIBS, TSVTS AND FIGS 

Cut the top of a candied cherry in points with scissors. 
Make a ball of fondant and press into the center of the cherry. 
Roll in fine granulated sugar. These are also called "Cherry 
Roses." For cream nuts, make a ball of fondant and press it 
between 2 halves of nuts. This fondant may be flavored with 
chocolate or coffee, or colored delicately. For cream figs, fill 
the center of a pulled fig solidly with fondant, cut in thin slices 
and roll in sugar. 

STUFFED DATES 

Cut open the dates on one side, and remove the seeds. Fill 
with uncooked or cooked fondant made into a ball and then 
pressed into oval shape. Bits of blanched almonds, English 
walnuts or candied cherries may be used Instead of fondant, or 



CANDY 31 

chopped and mixed with fondant. Press the dates in shape, 
and roll in powdered or granulated sugar. 

COCOANUT BAR 

Beat into melted fondant an equal quantity of shredded 
cocoanut, pour into an oiled tin and, when" cool, cut in bars. 
The mixture may also be dropped from a spoon onto oiled 
paper. 

CREAH MINTS 

Melt fondant in a double boiler, flavor with a few drops of 
oil of peppermint, wintergreen, clove, cinnamon oi- orange 
and color delicately if desired. Drop from the tip of a spoon 
onto oiled paper. Mints may be dipped in cfhocplate when 
cold. 

CREAH liOAF* 

Soften a cup of fondant over hot water. To one third add 
a few drops of vanilla, color another third a delicate pink, and 
to the rest add 2 tablespoonfuls of melted chocolate. Pour this 
in layers into a shallow box lined with oiled paper and allow 
it to stand until firm but not hard. Then break away the sides 
of the box, cut the loaf into slices or small pieces and roll 
each piece in fine granulated sugar. 

Many different combinatfons may be made. The choco- 
late may be omitted and chopped citron, pineapple, nuts, figs 
or cherries may be substituted. Two layers instead of three 
may be made, or the fondant left from the dipping of bon- 
bons may have nuts or fruits stirred into it and be poured into 
tins. 

BONBONS 

Centers. — Prepare centers for the bonbons by adding to 
the fondant chopped nuts, candied fruit, or any coloring or 
flavoring desired, and forming this into balls. Nuts^ candied 
cherries or white grapes may also be used as centers. 

To dip bonbons, in fondant melt the fondant In a double 
boiler. Color and flavor as desired. {In coloring fondant, 
dip a toothpick in the coloring, take up a small quantity, and 
dip the toothpick in the fondant. If care is not taken, the 
color is apt to be too intense.) Add a few drops of hot water 



32 PRACTICAL COOKBRT 

it necessary. For dipping, use a fork or a confectioner's bon- 
bon dipper. Drop the centers in the fondant one at a time, 
stir until covered, remove from the fondant, place on oiled 
paper and bring the end of the dipper over the top of the bon- 
bon, thus leaving a tail-piece which shows that the bonbons 
have«been hand-dipped. A second dipping may be necessary to 
give the proper shape and size. Stir the fondant between 
dipping to prevent a crust from forming. Decorate at once 
such bonbons as are to be ornamented with pieces of fruits or 
nuts. 

To dip In chocolate melt the chocolate in a double boiler, 
beat until sufSciently thick to coat the centers. Avoid over- 
cooking the chocolate. Dip the centers and place on oiled 
paper.* 

DIPPED TOKAY GRAPES 

Remove selected grapes from stem. Wash, dry thorough- 
ly. Dip in melted fondant, following directions for dipping 
bonbons. 

ORANGE AND LEMON CREAMS 

Use plain fondant of any kind. Add candied orange peel 
ground in fine pieces and orange flavoring. Mold in shape de- 
sired. 

For lemon creams use lemon flavoring and a small amount 
of grated rind. These flavorings are best worked into the 
fondant by degrees. 

CHOCOLATE DIPPED NUTS 

Melt chocolate over hot water, dip halves of walnuts as 
bonbon centers are dipped. Cool on oiled paper. Halves of 
pecans or whole almonds may be dipped. 

GLAZED NVTS AND FRUIT 

i c. sugar Spk. cream of tartar or 

i c. water 1 tbsp. vinegar 

Prepare the materials and the utensils, oiling a platter 
and a fork. Put the ingredients into a saucepan, stir, place 
over the fire and heat to the boiling point. Boil, without 



'Dipping chocolate ia preferable, but ordinary chocolate may- 
be used. 



CANDY 33 

stirring, to hard-crack stage or until faintly colored. Wash 
off sugar which adheres to sides of saucepan as in making 
fondant. Remove saucepan from fire and place in pan of cold 
water to stop the boiling instantly. Remove from the cold 
■water and place in a pan of hot water during dipping. Take 
the nuts or the frjiit separately on a fork or hatpin, dip into 
the syrup to cover, remove from the syrup," drain and place 
on an oiled platter or paper. Reheat when the syrup becomes 
too thick. Work carefully but quickly. Avoid discoloring the 
syrup by too much reheating. Remove the glazed nuts or fruit 
from the platter as soon as hard and keep in a cool place. 
Nuts, seeded raisins, candied cherries, pineapple, figs, cut In 
small pieces, and dates are most suitable for glazing. White 
grapes and orange sections are delicious but must be used im- 
mediately. 

MARSHMALLOWS 

2 c. sugar 2 tbsp. gelatin 

i c. hot water J c. cold water 

1 tap. vanilla 

Soak gelatin in cold, water. Cook sugar and hot water 
nearly to the soft-ball stage. Add gelatin, pour into large 
bowl and beat until stiff. Add vanilla, beat again and pour 
Into a tin. Let stand until stiff. Cut in strips, pull out of tin, 
cut in squares and roll in equal parts cornstarch and pow- 
dered sugar. nougat 

5 e. granulated sugar 1 c. boiling water 

1 c. glucose or corn syrup 3 egg whites 

Boil sugar, glucose and water to the soft-ball stage. Take 
out a cupful and pour onto beaten whites of eggs. Beat until 
cold. Boil remainder to the hard-crack stage. Pour over first 
portion. Beat thoroughly. ' As it begins to get stiff, put in 
chopped candied cherries and nuts. Pour into a box and cut 
ie slices. 

PARISIAN SWEEITS 

1 lb. flgs 1 lb. English walnuts 

1 lb. dates Powdered sugar 

Put in figs, dates and nuts alternately through a food chop- 
per. Force the mixture through the chopper until it is fine 

-3 



34 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

and uniform. Knead on a board, dusted with powdered sugar. 
Roll %-incti thick with a rolling pin and cut in fancy shapes. 

DIVINITY 

4 c. sugar 3 egg whites 

1 c. water 2 c. English walnuts 

1 c. maple syrup 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 tsp. lemon juice 

Boil sugar, water and maple syrup to the soft-ball stage. 
Have egg whites beaten stiff and gradually pour over them 
the syrup, beating all the while. When it begins to cool and 
stiffen, add the chopped nuts and flavoring. Pour into but- 
tered tins. Cool and slice. Candied fruits and almonds may 
be used. 

CANDIED orange: PEBL 

4 thin skinned oranges i c. water 

1 v;. sugar 

Remove peel in quarters. Cover with cold water, bring to 
boiling point and cook until tender. Drain, cut yellow portion 
in thin strips. Dissolve sugar in water, add orange strips to 
syrup and cook until syrup is absorbed. Drain and coat with 
fine granulated sugar. 

CRYSTAI. CUPS 

2 c. sugar 1 t. water 
i tsp. cream of tartar 

Mix ingredients and boil without stirring until syrup be- 
gins to discolor slightly. Care should be taken not to let sugar 
adhere to sides of kettle. Remove saucepan from fire and 
place in larger pan of cold water to stop boiling instantly; then 
remove from cold water and place in saucepan of hot water. 
Brush sides and bottom of timbale-iron with olive oil, lower 
iron into hot syrup to % its depth, remove from syrup, drain 
and invert; then keep in motion until cool enough for cup to 
be removed from iron. Cool iron again before dipping in 
syrup. It is well to have two irons if many cups are to be 
made. When sugar is no longer useful for cups it may be 
stretched and used for candy baskets or handles of baskets 
where macaroon drops are held together by cooked- syrup in 
shape of a basket. 



CANDY 85 

SPUN SUGAR 

2 lbs. sugar 2 c. boiling water 

} tap. cream of tartai; 

Boil ingredients without stirring until syrup begins to dis- 
color. Wash off sugar which adheres to sides of saucepan, as 
in making fondant. Remove saucepan from fire and place in 
a larger pan of cold water to stop boiling instantly. Remove 
from cold water and place in a saucepan of hot water. Place 
two broomsticks over back of chairs and spread paper on the 
floor under them. When syrup is slightly cooled, put dipper in 
syrup, remove from syrup and shake quickly back and forth 
over broomsticks. Carefully take off spun sugar as soon as 
formed and shape in nests or pile lightly on a cold dish. 
Syrup may be colored if desired. Spun sugar Is served around 
bricks or molds of frozen creams and ices. 

Dippers for spinning sugar can be made by tying several 
forks together. 



36 PRACTICAL. COOKERY 

THE EFFECT OF HEAT ON STAKCH 

Since many of our foods owe their fuel value chiefly to 
their starch content, an understanding of the effect of heat up- 
on starch is necessary in cooking. The correct application of 
moist or dry heat to foods which contain starch results In a 
more or less complete breaking up of the starch grains and 
changing of the starch to simpler substances, so that the food 
is more digestible and more palatable. 

The starch grains vary in size and shape according to their 
source. Each plant has grains of characteristic size and shape 
but the general structure is the same in all. Starch grains are 
composed of at least two different materials arranged in con- 
centric layers, thin layers of cellulose-like material alternat- 
ing with layers of starch. 

Moist heat causes starch grains to swell, bursting 
the cellulose walls and allowing the starch to escape into 
the surrounding liquid. Starch is insoluble in cold water but 
forms a gelatinous paste in hot water, thus thickening the 
liquid in which it is heated. After prolonged boiling, the 
liquid may become thin again, due to the conversion of the 
starch to simpler substances. 

Dry heat applied to starch grains produces the same chem- 
ical change much more quickly. At a temperature of 127° F. 
or 53° C, starch begins to form a soluble substance called dex- 
trin, which has a brownish color and a slightly sweet taste. 
This process takes place when flour is browned for sauces, in 
the formation of the crust on bread and in browning of toast. 

In thickening a liquid with starch, it is necessary to 
separate the starch grains before heating, by mixing the starch 
with cold liquid, fat or sugar. If this is not done they will ad- 
here together when heated, enclosing uncooked starch and 
forming lumps. To avoid this mix the starch with one of the 
following before heating: a double amount of liquid, a double 
amount of sugar, or an equal amount of melted fat. The liquid 
must be well stirred while it is thickening in order to prevent 
the formation of lumps. 



SAUCES 87 

SAUCES 
To make good sauces is to be master of an art. It require? 
great care and attention to the smallest details. A sauce Is 
intenfled as an accompaniment to the meat, flsh, vegetable or 
dessert with which it is served and should be in perfect har- 
mony with it. It "should never be so prominent in flavoring 
as to overbalance the flavor of the food. Certain sauces are 
associated with icertain particular foods, as mint sauce with 
lamb, caper sauce with mutton, cranberry sauce with turkey, 
or Hollandaise sauce with fish. Color adds to the attractive- 
ness of a sauce and may be obtained by the addition of browned 
• flour, caramel, or fruit or vegetable juices. 

METHODS OF MIXING 

I. Hygienic. — Mix the thickening material with cold 
liquid, stir into the heated liquid. Stir until the starch is 
cooked — 3-5 minutes over direct he^t, 15-20 minutes in a 
double boiler 'when milk, is used. Add butter just before 
serving. 

n. French. — Heat the fat and stir into it the thickening 
material. Add the cold liquid and cook 3-5 minutes over 
direct heat, stirring constantly. 

III. For Sweet Sauces. — Mix thickening material with 
sugar, add boiling water, return to fire and stir constantly un- 
til mixture is thick and clear. Add flavoring and serve. 

GENERAL, DIRECTIONS 

Cream Soups. — Use equal portions of sauce and stock with 
pulp of cooked food. The latter is obtained by pressing the 
food through a seive. Combine and reheat. 

Creamed Dishes. — Use slightly less #auce than food to be 
creamed. Pour the sauce over the food and reheat, if neces- 
sary, in a double boiler. 

Scalloped Dishes. — Use equal portions of sauce and food. 
Place alternate layers in an oiled baking dish. Cover with 
buttered crumbs. Reheat and brown in the oven. 

SoufiIe.s. — Use equal portions of sauce and food with S 
eggs to each cupful of sauce. Add the well beaten egg yolks to 
the sauce. Mix with the food. Fold in the Stiffly beaten egg 



338 



PRACTICAL COOKERY 



CO 

m 
o 

D 
•«! 
CO 

>> 

a 
o 
a 

CO 





i 


s 

(0 

S3 
SoJJ 

0)9 > 
Offlo! 

t4 U t4 

On U 




1 

a 


si 


1 

a 




1 

3 

1 


1 

1 


s 

1 


3 

1 


ss 

11 


2 

SMS 
S 9 M 


1 

U 
0} 


"3 

0) 


"3 

CO 

d 
2 


! 


4^ 

1 
d 
S 


13 V a c4^ = 0} □ 


a 

S et 

n A a> 

III 


II 


a 

5 


»4 

1 
& 


3 


3 
O 

1 


- 1 "1 
S .atlcp^o 

illiilil 


=1 


2 

5 


a 

e 

6 




5 

s 

6 


1 


^ ;> 6 Su> 
cSooooo 




1 
1 


i 

o 
£ 

1 




00 

3 



SAUCES 39 

whites and bake In a buttered baking dish' set in a pan of hot 
water. Bake in a moderate oven 30-40 minutes. 

Croquettes. — Use 1/3-3/4 as much sauce as tood, making 
the mixture as soft as can be handled. Mix and cool. Shape, 
veil in crumbs, egg and crumbs. Fry and drain. Beat an 
egg slightly for rolling and add equal amount of w ater or 

'" BROWN SAUCE 

Make a sauce for creamed dishes by the second or French 
method, browning the flour in the fat. This may be flavored 
with tomato juice or mushrooms added. 

PAN GRAVY 

Make a brown sauce with fat from pan in which meat is 
cooked. Flavor with tomato juice. 

GIBLBT GRAVY 

Make a brown sauce with giblet stock and drippings from 
roasting pan. Chop the giblets and add to sauce. 

BECHAMEI. sauce; 

Make a white saucei using equal parts of chicken stock 
and milk or cr&am. 

PARSLBY BUTTBR 

fi tbsp. butter 6 tap. chopped parsley 

6 tsp. lemon juice S tsp. salt 

Cream the butter, add parsley and salt. Add lemon juice 
slowly. Place on food and allow heat of food to melt the 
butter. 

draiVn butter sauce 

Use water, or meat or fish broth Instead of milk in a white 
sauce for creamed dishes. Add another equal portion of but- 
ter, cut into bits, just before serving. 

EGG SAUCE 

Add to a white sauce for creamed dishes, or to drawn but- 
ter sauce, 1 or 2 hard-cooked eggs, sliced or chopped. 

HOI^I^ANDAISE SAUCE 

i c. butter Spk. cayenne 

1 eggr yolk } c. boiling water 

i tsp. salt 1 tbsp. lemon Juice 



40 PRACTICAL, COOKERT 

Cream *the butter, add the yolk gradually, then salt, cay- 
enne and water. Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly 
until sauce thickens, then add lemon juice. 

MoussELiNK sauce: 

8 ees yolks i tbsp. lemon juice 

i c. cream . Salt and pepper to tast« 

I c. butter 1 tbsp. sugar 

Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon colored. Add cream 
and butter. Cook over hot water, stirring constantly untS 
mixture thickens. Add lemon Juice, sugar, salt and pepper. 

HARD SAVCK 

t tbsp. butter Flavoring 

li c. powdered sugar 1 tbsp. thin cream 

Cream butter and add sugai^ gradually, then add flavoring 

and cream. If fruit juice is used for flavoring, the proportioa 

Of sugar to butter should be doubled. Chopped nuts or shred- 

4ed cocoanut may be added. 

VANIJLLA SAUCE 

1 c. boiling water 5 c. sugar 

1 tbsp. cornstarch 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 tbsp. butter 

Combine ingredients as for a white sapce. 

LEMON SAUCE I 

1| c. hot water 3 c. sugar 

IJ tbsp. cornstarch IJ tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. lemon juice Grated rind o£ } lemon 

Combine ingredients as for a white sauce. 

LEMON SAUCE II 

1 c. sugar Grated rind of } lemon 

Juice of 1 lemon 

Mix together and let stand 2 or 3 hours, then add 1 «up- 
ful of 20 per cent cream. Beat well and serve. 

STERLING SAUCE 

i c. butter 4 tbsp. cream 

1 c. brown sugar Flavoring 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add cream gradually. Add 
flavoring to taste. Heat slightly and beat well before serving. 



SAUCES 4 1 

FOAMY EGG SAirCE 

1 egg J c. whipped cream or 

J c. powdered sugar 1| tbsp. milk 

I tsp. vanilla 

Beat egg white until stiff. Beat in gtadually ttie pow- 
dered sugar. When smooth and light add vanilla and ' well 
beaten yolk. Then stir in cream or milk. Serve at once. 

CARAMEL. SAUCE 

Make as vanilla sauce. Flavor with caramel syrnp. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

H sq. chocolate Spk. cream of tartar 

1 c. sugar i tsp. vanilla 

I c. water 

Boil sugar, water and cream of tartar until of the consist- 
ency of thin syrup, pour over the melted chocolate. Cool 
(lightly and add vanilla. 

WHIPPED CREAM 

1 c. cream Flavoring to taste 

1 tbsp. sugar 

Chill cream in a deep bowl. Chill and whip until frothy. 
Add sugar and flavoring and beat again until stiff. 

Cream to whip should be at least 24 hours old; 30-40 per 
eent cream whips best; 20 per cent cream must be packed in 
i«e. and at times ice and salt, to whip. 



PltACTICAL COOKERY 



VEGETABLES 

Methods of cookery applied to vegetables are similar to 
those used for other foods but must be adapted to the compo- 
sition and condition of the particular specimen. It is impos- 
sible to give exact method as regards preparation or time 
for the cooking of any variety of vegetable, since the method 
is dependent upon the size, age and freshness of the vegetables. 

The primary objects to be attained In the cookery of vege- 
tables are to soften the cellulose or fiber and to cook the 
starch. Soft water is preferable for cooking vegetables, be- 
cause the "salts of hard water, if present in any quantity, tend 
to harden the cellulose. The addition of table salt in large 
quantities will have the same effect. 

All vegetables should be crisp and firm when put on to 
cook. If Vk'ilted they may be freshened by soaking in cold 
water or by wrapping in a damp cloth and placing in the re- 
frigerator for an hour or more. During the cooking of vege- 
tables gases are formed which, if retained, give a strong flavor 
and odor. If vegetables are cooked uncovered these gases will 
pass off with the steam. The natural color of the vegetable 
is also retained if cooked in an uncovered utensil. Strongly 
flavored vegetables are made more palatable by cooking in a 
large quantity of water or by changing the water during the 
cooking process. Young vegetables should be cooked in a 
small quantity of water, or by steaming or baking, so that all 
the flavor will be retained. Dried vegetables must be soaked 
to absorb an amount of water equal to that lost in the drying 
])rocess. 

White sauce is a useful addition to vegetables, since it in- 
creases their nutritive value, modifies strong flavors and fur- 
nishes variety to the diet. Inferior specimens of vegetables 
may be made into palatable soups. Water in which vegetables 
have been boiled may also be saved and used in making soups. 
Juices and left-over vegetables may be used in making scal- 
Ir.; — ' dishes, stews, sauces, etc. 



VEGETABLES 43 

QBNERAli DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING STARCHY VEGETABLES 

Wash, pare, peel or scrape the vegetables. Cut into pieces 
ot convenient size. Cover with boiling salted water, using 1 
teaspoonful of salt to 1 pint ot water. Cook until tender. 



44 PRACTICAL COOKERT 

LEGUMES AND NUTS 

Legumes contain a large per cent of vegetable protein in. 
addition to the nutrients of other vegetables. The object to 
be obtained in the process of cookery is, therefore, to soften 
the cellulose and to cook the starch thoroughly without coagu- 
lating the protein to an objectionable degree. This is accom- 
plished by long, slow cooking with moist heat. If legumes are 
gathered while unripe, to be cooked in the pods, the seeds are 
small and the pod tender because the cellulose has not yet be- 
come tough. Green legumes are prepared like other green 
vegetables. 

Because of the large per cent of fat in nuts, they should be 
ground and mixed with other food materials. They also con- 
tain protein and must be cooked at a moderate temperature. 
Prepared in this way they are a valuable addition to the 
dietary. 

POTATO BALI.9 

Wash, pare and cut balls from potatoes with a vegetable 
cutter. Cook in boiling salted water. Serve with parsley 
butter. 

RICKD POTATOES 

Force boiled potatoes through a ricer into a hot serving 
dish. Season with salt, pepper and butter. 

HASHED POTATOES 

3 c. hot boiled potatoes Salt 

2 tbsp. butter Pepper 

4 tbsp. hot cream or milk 

Mash potatoes and add butter, ereara and salt. Beat with 
fork until light and creamy. Pile lightly in hot dish and serve 
Immediately. 

DUCUESS POTATOES 

3 eg-g yolks 3 tbsp. butter 

3 egg whites 6 tbsp. milk or cream 

3 c. hot mashed potatoes } tsp. pepper 

1} tsp. salt 



VEGETABLES 45 

Mix thoroughly all the ingredients except the egg whites. 
Beat the egg whites and fold in carefully. Put the mixture into 
a buttered baking dish set in a pan of hot water. Bake in a 
moderate oven until firm. Serve at once. 

POTATO ROSBS 

Force Duchess potato mixture through a pastry tube, 
forming fancy shapes. Set in a moderate oven and brown 
slightly. 

POTATO CAIvE)S 

2 c. hot mashed potatoes 1 tsp. finely chopped par- 

2 tbsp. butter sley 

i tsp. salt Bplt. cayenne 

1 egg yolk 
Mix ingredients and beat thoroughly. Shape into balls, 
dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs again. Fry and drain. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Wash and pare small potatoes, cut in eighths lengthwise 
and soak 1 hour in ice water. Take from water, dry between 
towels and fry. Drain and sprinkle with salt. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Scrub potatoes thoroughly. Place in hot oven. Bake 45 
to 60 minutes. When done, roll in clean napkin and twist 
until skin is broken. Serve immediately. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Bake potatoes. Upon removing from oven cut in halves 
crosswise or cut slice from one end. Scoop out inside. Mash 
and season with salt, peper, butter and hot milk. Pile 
lightly into shells, set in baking tin and return to oven. Bake 
until delicately browned. Small bits of pimento, stuffed olive 
or grated cheese may be added to the potatoes or sprinkled 
ever the top. 

POTATO CHIPS 

Wash and pare potatoes. Slice thinly into a bowl of ice 
water. Let stand at least 30 minutes. Drain and dry between 
towels. Fry a small quantity at a time until light brown. 
Drain and sprinkle with salt. 



A fi PRACTICAL COOKERY 

POTATO QUIRbS 

Wash and pare long potatoes. Shape with potato quirler. 
Soak in ice water % hour Drain, dry between towels, try. 
drain and sprinkle with salt. May be used as a garnish for 
meats or fish. 

FRANCOMA POTATOES 

Wash and pare potatoes. Place in pan in which meat is 
roasting. Bake until soft, basting with fat in pan. Time re- 
quired for baking, about 4 minutes. 

SMOTHERED POTATOES 

1 pot.Tto. pared 1 tap. parsley, chopped 
6 tbsp. milk Flour 

2 tbsp. butter Pepper 

Salt Buttered crumbs 

Onion juice 

Cut potato in very thin slices. Put layer of potato in but- 
tered baking dish. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, onion juice, 
parsley, butter, flour. Add milk and cover with buttered 
crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven until potato is tender. 

GL.\ZED SWEET POTATOES 

1 sweet potato 2 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. butter 
Wash and pare the sweet potato. Cut in halves 
lengthwise and cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain 
and dry. Melt butter, add sugar. Place potatoes in baking 
tin. Spread with butter and sugar mixture, add a little water 
and brown in a moderate oven. 

BAKED SWEET POT.4.TOES 

Prepare and bake as Irish potatoes. 

B.VKED SaHASH 

Wash and cut in 1-inch slices. Remove seeds and stringy 
portion. Sprinkle 'with sugar and bake on baking sheet. When 
tender, scrape from shell, force through ricer^ season with 
salt, butter and pepper; or serve in the shell, seasoned with 
salt, pepper and butter. 

STEA.MED Sai'ASH 

Wash and cut in 1-inch slices. Steam until tender, scrape 



VEGETABLES 4 7 

Irom the shell, force through ricer, season with salt, pepper 
and butter. This may also be served in the shell, seasoned 
■with salt, pepper and butter. 

MASHBD TURNIPS 

Wash, pare and boil turnips. Force through ricer, sea- 
son with salt, pepper and butter and serve. 

STUFFED TURNIPS 

Wash and pare medium-sized turnips. Boil whole. Cut a 
thin slice off the top of turnip. Then make a hole in turnip 
below slice. Fill opening with stuflBng prepared like stuflSng 
for chicken. This may be mixed with nuts or chopped meats. 
Cover opening with slice removed from top and bake, basting 
with melted butter. 

PREPARATION OF CAULIFLOWER FOR BOILING 

Place cauliflower, flowerlets down, in cold salted water for 
20 minutes. Remove from cold water and break into flower- 
lets. 

SAUTED PARSNIPS 

Wash and scrape parsnips. Cut into quarters lengthwise 
and remove woody center. Boil and,saut6. 

SPLIT PEAS OR LENTILS 

} c. split peas or lentils li in. cube salt pork 

i onion 1 tbsp. salt 

Pick over and wash peas or lentils. Soak over night in 
cold water. Drain, add cold -water to cover, sliced pork, onion 
and salt, and cook slowly until tender. Drain and serve. 

BOILED BEETS 

Cut tops from beets, leaving 1% inch of stem. Wash, 
boll and drain. Remove skin. These may be served buttered 
or with a sauce. 

BEETS IN VINEGAR SAUCE 

Make a vinegar sauce with half vinegar and half water. 
Use cornstarch for thickening To each cupful of sauce add 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Reheat boiled beets in sauce. 

PICKLED BEETS 

12 medium-sized beets % u. sugar 

3 c. vinegar 



4 <j PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Heat vinegar to boiling point, add sugar and pour over 
the boiled beets. Let stand until ready to serve. 

OMONS STUFFED WITH PECAN NUTS. 

8 Spanish onions 1 c. nuts 

1 c. dry bread cruirtbs V4 c. butter 

I tsp. salt Spk. pepper 

1 tbsp. chopped parsley I beaten ese or -2 egrs yolks 

1 c. white stock sauce 

Peel onions. Boil whole. When cooled cut out center of 
onion from root end, leaving shell of onion. Chop the onion 
removed from the center. Chop the nuts. Mix all the ingredi- 
ents and stuff the onion shell. Bake in a moderate oven until 
brown. 

BOILED SPINACH 

Remove roots, carefully pick over (discarding wilted 
leaves) and wash in several waters to be sure that it is free 
from sand. When young and tender put into a stewpan, allow 
to heat gradually, and boil 25 minutes, or until tender, in its 
own juices, to which a little fat is added. Old spinach Is better 
cooked in boiling salted water, allowing 2 quarts water to 1 
peck spinach. Drain thoroughly, chop fine, reheat, and season 
with butter, salt and pepper. Mound on a serving dish and 
garnish with slices of hard-cooked eggs and toast points. The 
green color of spinach is better retained by cooking in a large 
qiniBtity of water in an uncovered vessel. 

SPINACH A LA CREME . 

I pk. spinach or 1 can 6 tbsp. butter 

1 c. cream 4 tbsp. flour 

Cook butter and flour together until smooth and. frothy. 
.'Vdd boiled, chopped spinach and cook for 5 minutes, stirring 
constantly. Add cream, salt and pepper to taste. Cook 3 
minutes and serve plain on toast. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

6 medium-Sized tomatoes } c. buttered crumbs 

i e. soft bread crumbs Salt 

I u. chopped nuts Pepper 

Wipe tomatoes and remove thin slice" from the stem end. 
Remove pulp. Mix with chopped nuts, soft cread crumbs and 



VEGETABLES 49 

seasoning. Refill tomato shells, sprinkle the top with buttered 
crumbs. Place in pan. Bake in hot oven until tomato is 
cooked. Finely chopped, cold, cooked chicken or veal may be 
used instead of nuts. 

SAUTED TOMATOES 

6 tomatoes 1 tbsp. butter 

1 0. vk'hite sauce for Salt 

creamed dishes Pepper 

Wipe, peel, slice tomatoes, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Dredge with flour, saut6 in butter. Place on a hot platter and 
poor over them the white sauce. 

RAMEKIN TOMATOES 

6 tomatoes 1 c. cream or white sauce 

1 onion, small for creamed dishes 

Scald and peel small tomatoes. Put a tablespoontul of the 
sauce into the bottom of each ramekin or custard cup. Add 
the tomato with the remaining sauce over the top. Sprinkle 
the whole with chopped parsley and the grated onion. Stand 
the dishes in a baking tin and bake in moderate oven Va hour. 

BOILED- ASPARAGUS 

Cut Off lower parts of stalks as far down as they will snap, 
untie bunches, wash and retie. Cook in boiling salted water 15 
minutes, or until soft, leaving tips out of water first 10 
minutes. Drain, remove string and spread with soft butter. 
allowing 1 % tablespoonfuls of butter to each bunch aspara- 
gus. Asparagus is often broken or cut in inch pieces for boil- 
ing, cooking tips a shorter time than stalks.. Asparagus may 
be served with white or Hollandaise sauce, garnished with 
toast points. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS 

Wash mushrooms. Remove stems, scrape and cut in 
pieces. Peel caps and break in pieces. Cook in butter 2 
minutes, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and 
cover with hot water, tomato juice, cream or stock. Cook 
slowly 5 minutes. 
-1 



50 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

STUFFKD SWEET PEPPERS 

6 sweet peppers 1 tbsp. parsley 

2 c. cooked meat 1 tsp. salt 

1 onion i o. bread crumbs 

1 tbsp. butter 1 t. water or stock 

Cut the peppers in halves, crosswise, remove the seeds and 
cut off the stem, or leave them whole, save cutting off a cap, 
and parboil. Chop the meat and the onion fine. Mix all the 
ingredients together except the stock or water, fill the peppers, 
stand them in a pan and pour the hot stock or water around 
them. Bake slowly % of an hour, basting often. Corn mny 
be substituted for the meat. 

STUFFED EGGPLANT 

1 eggplant 1 tbsp. chopped parsley 

1 c. stale bread crumbs Salt 

1 c. English walnuts Pepper 

I tbsp. butter 1 egg 

1 tbsp. chopped onion 

Choose a full, dark-purple eggplant. Cook in plenty of 
boiling water 15 minutes. While boiling, shell and chop the 
nuts, grate the bread crumbs and chop the onion. When the 
eggplant has boiled the required time, remove from the kettle 
and cut crosswise in halves, and with a pointed knife cut out 
the pulp about % ii;ch from the outside. With a spoon remove 
it from the shell. Chop this fine. Cook the onion in butter 
until it is yellow but not brown. Add the eggplant and cook 
a minute, then the remaining ingredients, except the egg, mix- 
ing all well together. AVhen thoroughly heated remove from 
the fire and add the well-beaten egg. Stand the eggplant 
shells in a buttered pan and refill with the mixture, heaping 
well on the top and sprinkling with bread crumbs. Baste with 
melted butter and baste twice again while baking in a moder- 
ate oven % hour. 

SAUTED EGGPLANT 

Pare an eggplant and cut in very thin slices. Sprinkle 
with salt and pile on a plate. Cover with a weight to express 
the juice and let stand 1% hours. Dredge with flour and 
saut6 slowly in butter until crisp and brown. 



LBGU Mills 51 

BAKEn IIKANS 

1 pt beans 1 tap. mustard 

1 tsp. soda 1 tbsp. molasses 

} to J lb. salt pork 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 tsp. salt 

Pick over and wash beans. Souk over night. Drain. Put 
on in cold water, bring to boil, add soda and boil 1 minute 
Pour off water, rinse and cover with water. Cook slowly until 
skins will wrinkle when struck by draft of air. Drain, fill 
bean pot halt full, lay in pork, the rind of which has been 
scalded and scored. Fill remainder of beans into pot and 
pour over them the" mustard, salt and molasses dissolved in 
hot water. Add enough hot water to cover beans. Put on 
bean pot lid and bake beans S or more, hours in slow oven. 

BUTTFRI3D LIMA. DEANS 

2 tbsp. lima beans i tsp. salt 
I 0. water Spk. soda 

1 tsp. butter 

Pick over and wash beans. Soak over night. Drain. Put 
on in cold water, bring to a boil, add soda. Boil 1 minute. 
Pour off water, rinse, put on in Vi cupful of boiling water to 
which the salt has been added. Cook until tender. Drain, add 
butter and seasoning to taste. 

LENTIL I-OAP 

2 c. soft crumbs 1 egg 

1 c. cooked lentils i c. nuts 

i onion 2 Inch cube ol 

Salt pork cooked with 

I c. milk lentils 

Run lentils through the food chopper with salt pork, onion, 
and nuts. Add well-beaten egg and other ingredients; shape 
into a loaf. Bake 4 5 minutes in a slow oven. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 

CORN CUSTARU 

1 can corn 3 eggs 

3 tbsp. butter 1 pt. milk 
1 tsp. salt 

Chop the corn and add it to the eggs and milk, beaten to- 



52 PRACTICAL COOKERTT 

gether as for custard. Add the melted butter and salt. Powe 
Into a buttered baking dish and cook as baked custard. 

SCALLOFESD MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAVCB 

2 c. cooked macaroni i c. buttered crumbs 

2 c. tomato sauce 

Add macaroni to tomato sauce. Put into buttered baking 
dish and cover with buttered crumbs. Bake until thoroughly 
heated and surface browned. 

VEGETABLE SOWFFIiB 

Follow directions given under sauces. For food, use any 
oooked vegetable mashed or cut in small pieces. 

VEGETABLE THICKENED WITH EGG 

Make a sauce as for creamed dishes, using 1 egg Instead 
of 1 tablespoonful of flour. 

NUT SOUFFLti 

Follow directions given under sauces. For. food, use any 
chopped nuts. 

NUT CROQUETTES 

Follow directions given under sauces. For food, ase any 
chopped nuts. 

NUT L.OAF 
2 c soft bread crumbs H c. butter 

i c. nut meats i c. hot water or stock 

1 tsp. salt 1 egg 

i tsp. pepper 

Mix thoroughly crumbs, nuts, salt and pepper. Melt but- 
ter in hot water or stock. Cool slightly and pour over beaten 
egg. Combine with dry ingredients. Bake slowly In an oiled 
tin 46 minutes. 

SAL.TED PEANUTS I 

1 lb. peanuts or 1 tsp. butter or olive oil 

2 c. shelled peanuts Salt 

Put fat into heated frying pan. Shell and skin nuts. Pour 
in a few at a time and brown delicately. Drain and sprinkle 
with salt. 



NUTS 53 

SALTED PEIAIWUTS 11 

1 lb. shelled, raw peanuts Salt 

1; lb. lard 

Blanch nuts and dry thoroughly. Heat lat in small, deep 
kettle. Place a few nuts at a time in a strainer or frying bas- 
ket and fry until a golden brown. Drain on paper, and salt. 

BLANCHBD AI.MONDS 

Cover almonds with boiling water, and let stand .2 minutes. 
Drain, put into cold water and rub off the skins. Dry between 
towels. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

1 c. blanched almonds l tbsp. salt 

1 tbsp. olive oil or butter 

Pour fat over nuts. Let stand for a few minutes, add salt. 
Place in a hot frying pan, stirring occasionally until delicate- 
ly browned. Drain. 

SALTED ALMONDS II 

Blanch the almonds. Dry between cloth Place In small 
mesh frying basket and fry to a delicate brown in deep (at. 
shaking occasionally. Drain and sprinkle with salt. 



54 



PRACTICAL COOKERY 



CEEEALS, 

Most cereals should be cooked in a double boiler /one can 
be improvised by setting a pail or pan into a kettle of waterj 
Cereals for breakfast may be cooked the day before but should 
not be stirred while reheating. A tablespoonful or two of cold 
water on top will prevent a hard skin from forming while 
standing.( All prepared cereals are better if cooked for a long- 
ex time than the package directions indicatej) It is hardly pos- 
sible to cook any grain too long. The flreless cooker is especially 
valuable for cooking cereals but a longer period of time must 
fce allowed than for copking in a double boiler; U<^..-,^ Lji' - j^"- 
'' ^^^ ^'-"'^ GENERAfi' Directions 



-i'M 




■'J: 



Wiiolcar cracked 

Flaked 

Granular 



Use % teaspoonful of salt to each cupful of water. Have 
water boiling hot. Add cereal gradually. Let mixture cook 
directly over the flame 5 minutes. Place over boiling water 
or in flreless cooker to cook slowly for a long time, without 
stirring, and covered. Fruit may be cooked with the various 
cereals, raisins, flgs and dates being most acceptable. (Use 
3 pressed flgs, 6 dates or ^ cupful of raisins to 1 cupful of 
water.) For hot weather, cereals may be cooked the day be- 
fore, molded and served cold. 

Gruels are prepared from flaked or granular c^eals, using 
1 % times the proportionate amount of water. Gruels, after 
cooking, should be strained and reheated. 

EXAMPLES OP CEREALS 



Whole 


Flaked 


Granular 


Cracked Wheat 

Barle; 

Sice 

Macaroni 

Hominy 


Rolled oats 
Flaked Wheat 


Cream of wheat, rye 

and barley 
Cornmeal 



CEREALS 55 

STBAMBD RICE 

Cook rice as any whole cereal. The time required is 45 
minutes or until kernels are soft. Uncover, that steam may 
escape. When rice is steamed for a simple dessert, use '^ the 
Quantity of water. Steam until rice has absorbed water, then 
add scalded milk for remaining liquid. 
BOILRD ricje: 

Pick over and wash rice. Add gradually to a large quan- 
tity of rapidly boiling salted water. Stir at first with a fork 
to prevent any grains from sticking to bottom of kettle. Let 
it boil rapidly for 20 minutes or until tender. Drain in strain- 
er, pour over it cold water to prevent pieces from adher- 
ing; reheat in oven. Serve plain, as a vegetable, or use for 
croquettes, etc. One cupful of rice when cooked will measure 
nearly 4 cupfuls. 

BOILED MACAROIMI 

Break macaroni in inch pieces and cook as boiled rice. 

SAUTED MUSH 

Pack hot corn meal mush in wet molds. Cool and cover 
to prevent crust forming. Remove from mold, cut in %-inch 
slices and saut6. If slices are dipped in flour or corn meal 
the mush is dried and fat does not spatter. Mush used for 
sautding should be made thicker, using 4 tablespoonfuls granu- 
lar cereal to 1 cupful of water. 



PRACTICAL. COOKERY 



THE EFFECT OF HEAT ON FATS 

Fats are generally classified as solid fats and oils and are 
suitable for different purposes in cooking according to their 
melting and decomposition points. Oils are used in salad dress- 
ings. Fats such as butter, lard and oleomargarine are best 
suited for table use and in cake and pastry making, while many 
of the oils, including olive, cottonseed and peanut, are well 
adapted to deep fat frying because of their higher smoking or 
decomposition point. Too great application of heat decom- 
poses fat, giving off disagreeable odors and forming com- 
pounds which are irritating to the digestive tract. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR FRYING 

Frying requires the most careful attention, because fat is 
highly inflammable. Therefore avoid placing the kettle over 
the direct flame and guard constantly against accident. Burn- 
ing fat may be extinguished by shutting off the air with a cover 
on the kettle or ashes on the stove. The following utensils 
should be used : A large, flat-bottomed iron kettle, a long fork 
or spoon, a basket for convenience in handling and a draining 
tin containing absorbent paper. Have fat deep enough to 
cover the food entirely. Do not fill kettle more than three- 
fourths full. 

Foods must be dry on the surface, because water Intro- 
duced with foods causes the fat to bubble. (Fat never boils.) 
Uncooked food may be dried by placing between two towels; 
cooked foods by rolling in crumbs, beaten diluted egg, and 
again in crumbs. Do not cook too much material at one time. 
To brown evenly do not allow articles to touch one another. 
After the first foods are removed the fat must be reheated 
before more articles are added, because cold material takes 
heat from the fat. 

The temperatnres should be 380''-400° F. or 194''-205'' C. 

Cooked foods require a temperature high enough to brown 
them. 

Uncooked foods require a temperature high enough to cook 
them before they browr 



EFFECT OF HEAT ON FAT 57 

TO TEST HEAT OF FRYING FAT 

For Cooked Foods. — One-inch cube of bread should brown 
In 40 seconds (or counts). 

For Uncooked Foods. — The same in 60 seconds (or 
counts). 

TO CLARIFY FAT 

Fat, it it has not been subjected to intense heat, may be 
clarified and used repeatedly. When no longer desirable for 
frying, the fat may be used for making soap. 

Burned particles and odors may be removed from a large 
amount of fat with raw potatoes; a small amount of fat, with 
boiling water. 

TO CLARIFY A LARGE AMOUNT OF FAT 

Melt the fat and add slices of raw potato. Heat gradual- 
ly. When the fat ceases to bubble and the potatoes are well 
browned, strain though a double thickness of cheesecloth and 
set aside to cool. Repeat if necessary. 

TO CLARIFY A SMALL AMOUNT OF FAT 
Pour boiling water over cold fat and stir vigorously. Set 
aside to cool. Remove cake of fat formed on top and scrape 
burnt particles from the under part. Repeat if necessary to 
obtain a cake of clear, white fat. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR SAUTEING 

tieat the pan before adding the fat. Heat the fat until 
smoking hot. Have all foods free from water to avoid cooling 
the fat. Cook food first on one side, then on the other, being 
careful not to puncture with knife or fork. Add more fat, a 
little at a time, to prevent burning. 

Sauted foods, because they absorb more fat, are less whole- 
some than fried foods. 



58 PRACTICAL COOKERY 



PASTBY 

The term pastry, as usually- defined, 'signifies a mixture of 
flour, shortening and some liquid, mixed, rolled, sometimes 
folded, and baked for special purposes. Thete are three kinds 
of pastry. 

Plain Pa,ste, in which the shortening is worked into the 
flour by cutting or chopping. 

Puff paste, in which the shortening is worked into a pasta 
of flour and water by folding and rolling. 

Flaky Paste, in which the shortening is mixed into the 
flour by a combination of the first two methods. 

The fats used may be butter, lard, cottolene, oleomarga- 
rine, suet (alone or in combination with other fats), drippings, 
chicken fat, or vegetable oils, as corn or cottonseed oils. 

If pure fats such as lard or vegetable oils are used, one- 
third to one-fourth less fat is required than if the fat used is 
butter, which contains some water and other substances. 

Flour should be pastry flour, which contains a larger per 
cent of starch and a smaller per cent of gluten and therefore 
makes more tender pastry than bread flour. Bread flour can 
be substituted by using two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch in 
each cupful of flour. Liquid should be ice water or very cold 
water. The amount varies with kind of fat , kind of flour, and 
temperature. 

Utensils, room and hands should also be cold, as the flour 
makes a more tender paste if kept cold, and It is desirable to 
keep the temperature as much below the melting point of the 
fat as possible, especially for the inexperienced cook. 

Much handling of the dough toughens it. 

The general proportions are V& cupful of shortening and I 
teaspoonful of salt to 1 cupful of flour. 

In preparing pastry for pics use 1 % cupfuls of floui for a 
two-crust pie baked in an ordinary sized tin. Divide the amount, 
rolling only enough for one crust at a time. Koll % 
inch thick. Roll as nearly circular as possible. Cut a little 



PASTRY 59 

larger than the tin to allow tor shrinkage during baking. Al- 
low more paste for top than for under crust. Lay onto tin 
slowly from one side so as to leave no air bubbles between 
paste and tin. The top crust should have openings in it for 
the escape of steam. The two crusts should be pressed togeth- 
er with a floured fork. Trim, holding knife handle under pie 
tin to make the pie come as far over the edge as possible. This 
prevents shrinking down into the tin. 

PLAIN PASTRY 

li i;. flour i tsp. salt 

i c. shortening Ice water to moisten 

Measure shortening and flour and chill. Add salt to flour 
and cut shortening into flour with knives. Use just enough 
cold water to make the particles of the mixture adhere to- 
gether. Turn onto a lightly floured board and push together 
with knives. Roll very thin, handling as little as possible. 

Pastry should be baked in a hot oven 10 to 15 minutes. 
Pies with uncooked filling should be baked in a hot oven until 
the pastry is set, then the heat reduced and baking contlued 
until the filling is cooked. 

PUFF PASTE 

1 lb. butter 1 lb. pastry flour 

1 tsp. salt Ice watfer 

Wash the butter in a pan of cold water until it is light and 
waxy. Shape all but 2 tablespoonfuls into a jiircular piece 
and pat between folds of a napkin to remove all water. Chill. 
Mix flour and salt and cut into it the 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Add ice water to form a paste. Turn onto floured 
board and knead 1 minute. Chill. Roll paste Vi inch thick, 
keeping as nearly square as possible. Flour outside of chilled 
butter and place in center of lower half of paste. Fold upper 
half of paste over it and pi'ess edges firmly together, enclos- 
ing as much air as possible. Fold right side of paste over and 
left side of paste under enclosed butter. Chill. Pound and 
roll % inch thick, keeping paste square, then fold from ends 
to center, making three layers. Chill. Repeat twice, turning 
paste half way around each time and chilling in between. 



fiO PRACTICAL COOKERY 

After fourth rolling, fold from ends to center and double, 
making 4 layers. Roll out and cut with cutter dipped in fiour. 
Chill after shaping before baking. Place on tin covered with 
heavy paper. Bake in hot oven, protecting top from heat until 
paste has finished rising, which will take from 10-15 minutes. 
It should finish baking in 25 minutes. 

APPIiE PEB 

Wash, pare and slice into thin slices tart, easily cooked 
apples. Cover pie tin with pastry, arrange sliced apple smooth- 
ly in tin, sprinkle liberally with sugar. Add seasonings (cin- 
namon, nutmeg or lemon juice). Add small particles of but- 
ter. Cover and bake. 

BKRRT PIE 

Line a pie tin with plain paste, fill with berries slightly 
dredged with flour, sprinkle with sugar, cover and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

RHUBARB PIX: 

Wash and cut stalks of rhubarb in half-inch pieces. Cover 
tin with plain pastry. Dredge rhubarb with flour, arrange In 
tin and sprinkle liberally with sugar. Cover and bake. Many 
prefer to scald rhubarb before using for pies. 

CRANBERRT PIE 

Cover pie tin with plain pastry and trim edges. Fill with 
cranberry sauce. Roll pastry for upper crust. Cut In %-lnch 
strips and lay across pie, leaving parallel uncovered spaces of 
1^ inch. Arrange a second layer of strips diagonally to first. 
Press ends of strips firmly to under crust and trim. 

PRUNE PIE 

18 prunes 45 tsp. butter 

4} tbsp. BxiguT 3 tsp. lemon juice 

Spk. salt 4i tsp. flour 

Line a pie tin with plain pastry. Fill with prunes soaked 
In cold water and cooked with the sugar, lemon juice and salt. 
Sprinkle with flour, cover and bake. 



PASTRY 6 1 

CtJSTARD PIE 

Line a de^p pie tin with pastry, carefully pricking bottom 
with a fork so that air bubbles may escape Bake, fill with 
filling, using recipe on page 156. 

SOUR CREAM PIE 

Beat 1 egs and 2 egg 1 tap. flour 

yolks lightly, beat In i tsp. lemon extract 

1 c. sugar i tsp. cinnamon or 

1 c. sour cream cloves 

Bake in a pie plate, lined with pastry, until rather firm in 
the center. Beat the whites of 2 eggs dry, then gradually beat 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar and spread over the 
pie. Return the pie to the oven to cooTi the meringue. Let 
cook about S minutes in a slow oven, then increase the heat 
to brown the meringue slightly. 

LEMON PIE 

Line deep pie tin with pastry and bake. Fill with lemon 
lilling. Cover with meringue made from white of egg. Brown 
in oven. 

LEMON FILLINJS 

2 tbsp. cornstarch 1 tbsp. butter 

3 c. sugar 2 egg yolks 
1 c. boiling water Spk. salt 

4 tbsp. lemon juice Grated rind of 5 lemon 

Mix cornstarch and sugar in a saucepan and stir in the 
hot water. Cook, stirring constantly, until it thickens and boil 
r« minutes. Add butter, slightly beaten yolk, salt, lemon juice 
and grated rind. Cook 1 minute longer. Pour into crust and 
finish as directed above. 

CKEAM RAISIN PIE 

1 u. raisins 2 egg yolks 

1 c. cream 1 'tbsp. flour 

1 c. sugar 2 egg whites 

Stew the rasins until tender. Drain, add the cream and 
sugar and flour mixed together. Cook 3-5 minutes, add egg 
yolks and cook until it thickens. Put into baked pastry shell, 



62 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

cover top with meringue made from the egg whites and brown 
in oven. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

U c. strained pulp i tsp. each of 

'/4 c. sugar cinnamon 

I tsp. salt nutmeg 

i tsp. lemon extract ginger 

1 egg i c. milk 

Add sugar and spices to pulp, well beaten egg and milk. 
Line a tin with plain pastry, pour in mixture and bake. 
Whipped cream may be served as a garnish. 

MINCE PIK 

Line a pie tin with plain pastry. Fill with mince meat, 
cover and bake. 



i lb. meat 

1 lb. apples 

i lb. raisins 

i lb. currants 

i lb. citron 

Water or fruit Juice 

4 tbsp. butter 

Cook meat and have cold. Pare and core apples. Force 
through a meat cutter. Wash currants and raisins. Seed and 
cut raisins and citron with a knife in small pieces. Moisten 
with water. Cook all until apples are tender. 

RANBURY TARTS 

Plain pastry (from 1| u. 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

flour) 1 egg 

J c. raisins i cracker 

5 c. sugar Grated rind of i lemon 
Seed raisins and chop. Add sugar, egg slightly beaten. 

crackers finely rolled, and lemon juice and rind. Roll pastry 
% inch thick and cut in pieces 3% inches by 3 inches. Put 2 
teaspoonfiils of the mixture on each, piece. Moisten edge with 
cold water % way round, fold over, press edges together with 
fork first dipped in flour. Bake. 20 minutes in slow oven. 



MINCE 


MEAT 








i 


c. sugar 




i 


tbsp." 


cinnamon 




i 


tbsp. 


cloves 




i 


tbsp. 


mace • 




i 


tbsp. 


allspice 


Ice 


i 


tbsp. 


nutmeg 



PASTRY 63 

ORANGK TARTLETS 

~ Cover inverted tins with plain paste. Bake in quick oven. 
Fill with orange filling. 

orange: filling 

1 c. sugar 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

i c. flour 2 eggs slightly beaten 

Grated rind of 1 orange 2 tfp. butter 

i 0. orange Juice 

Mix in order given. Cook in double boiler 12 minutes, 
stirring constantly. 

FRUIT BASKETS 

Bake plain pastry over little gem tins. Take two narrow 
strips of pastry, twist and lay over another tin to bake. Fill 
basket with fruit or jelly. Put whipped cream on top and 
carefully stick in handle. 

NCT PASTRY ROLL 

Roll plain pastry % inch thick and cut in pieces 5 inches 
by 3 inches. Spread with beaten jelly. Sprinkle with chopped 
pecan nut meats and roll. Sprinkle with fine' granulated sugar. 
Place on tin sheet and bake in hot oven. 

CHEISSIS STRAWS I 

1 c. grated cheese Plain pastry (from 14 c. 

flour) 

Sprinkle with cheese V2 of the rolled pastry. Fold over and 
roll. Repeat 3 times. Cut in strips V2 inch wide and 4 inches 
long. Bake 8 minutes in hot oven. 

CHEESE STRAWS II 

2 bz. cheese Spk. cayenne 
2 oz. flour i tsp. salt 

1 oz. butter 

Mix flour and butter. Add ciieese and work until it forms 
a dough. Roll in sheet V2 inch thick. Cut in slices and bake 
10 minutes. 

LESION STICKS 

Cut puff or plain pastry rolled % inch thick in strips 6 
inches long by 1 inch wide and bake in hot oven. Put to- 
gether in pairs and fill with lemon filling. 



64 PRACTICAL COOKERY 



MERINGUES 

Meringues are used to add to the attractiveness of pies, 
puddings and tarts. Usually the meringue is spread roughly 
over the top of the dish to be decorated and slightly browned 
in the oven. It may be applied in fancy shapes or designs by 
forcing the mixture through a pastry tube. For variation it 
may be folded into the pudding or pie filling. 

The eggs for a meringue should be fresh and cold. Th« 
whites should not contain the slightest bit of yolk. The bowl 
and whisk should be cold and clean, as even a small amount 
of fat present interferes with the beating. A whisk or a fork 
is best for beating, as larger volume is obtained than with a 
Dover egg beater and iineness of grain is not important. The 
beating should be slow at first, gradually increasing in rapid- 
ity. A speck of salt added when the eggs begin to froth aids 
in stiffening. 

The sugar should be fine grained, either confectioners or 
sifted granulated. This should be added a little at a time, 
beating in each lot before more is added. The larger the pro- 
portion of sugar, the dryer the meringue. The baking is a 
process of drying slowly and then browning in a very slow 
oven. 

MERINGUE 

2 egg whites i tsp. vanilla 

2 tbsp. Powdered sugar Spk. salt 

J tbsp. lemon juice 
Beat whites until stiff. Add sugar gradually, combining 
thoroughly with mixture. Add vanilla and lemon juice. Spread 
on pies, puddings or desserts and bake 15 minutes in a slow 
oven. 

KISSES 

4 egg whites h tsp. vanilla 

1 c. granulated sugar Spk. salt 

Make as a meringue. Drop from spoon onto baking sheet 
covered with oiled paper. Bake 30 to 50 minutes In a very 
slow oven. Remove from paper and put together in pairs. 

Chopped nuts may be added to the mixture before baking. 



THE EFFECT OF HEAT ON PROTEIN 65 



THE EFFECT OF HEAT ON PROTEIN 

The cooking of eggs or meat serves as a good example of 
the effect of heat on proteins. The chief protein In egg whits 
belongs to a class of proteins called albumins. Although trans- 
parent and easily soluble in water before heating, egg albu- 
min is rendered opaque and Insoluble in water by the applica- 
tion of heat. This change is known as coagulation and is typi- 
cal of the change which occurs in all protein foods upon heat- 
ing. The temperature at which coagulation takes place is 
different tor different proteins but is usually well below the 
boiling point of water. This coagulation or hardening pro- 
cess begins at the outer edge of food and continues gradually 
toward the center. Its progress can be followed best in egg 
white. At 134° F. or 57° C. fine fibrils of a semi-solid sub- 
stance appear In the liquid albumin; at 160° F. or 71° C. it 
changes to a tender, jelly-like substance; at 180'° F. or 82° C. 
it becomes dense and white. Boilicg renders it tough and 
leathery. While protein ■ is still digestible after the appllca-- 
tion of high temperatures, the hardness and toughness of 
protein foods which' have been thus treated renders them un- 
desirable. An effort should be made, therefore, to cook foods 
which contain considerable protein at as low a temperature 
and for as short a time as will make them palatable. 



66 PRACTICAL, COOKERY 



EGGS 

SOFT-COOKED EGGS 

Pour boiling water over eggs, using 1 cupful ot water to 
each egg, cover, draw to back part of range and let stand from 
8-10 minutes. 

HARD-COOKED EGGS 

Prepare same as for soft-cooked. Let stand from 30-45 
minutes. 

POACHED EGGS ON TOAST 

Fill an oiled frying pan with boiling water to a depth of 
1 % inches. Break an egg carefully into saucer and slide into 
the water. Do not let the water boil after the egg is placed in 
it. Cook until white of egg is jelly-like and film forms over 
yolk. Butter a slice of toast -and, when egg is cooked, lift onjo 
toast and sprinkle with salt. Milk or cream may be used in- 
stead of water. 

POACHED EGGS IN BREAD BOXES 

Place a layer of hashed meat in bottom of box made from 
bread. Poach egg. Place in box carefully. 

BAKED EGGS 

2 tbsp. soft bread crumbs Salt to taste 

1 tbsp. cream, thin Pepper to taste 

1 egg 

Cover bottom of oiled, individual baking dish with crumbs. 
Break the egg, slip onto the crumbs. Add salt and pepper, cov- 
er with remaining crumbs, add the cream and bake in a moder- 
ate oven until white is set. 

SAUTED EGGS 

Heat a frying pan. Put in 1 tablespoontul of fat. Slip in 
an egg and cook until white is firm. Lift fat in spoon and pour 
over egg or turn egg once while cooking. Add more fat as 
heeded, just enough to keep the egg from sticking. Season to 
taste. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS, COUNTRT STYtE 

* egga Salt to taste 

i c. milk Pepper to taste 

2 tbsp. butter 



EGGS 67 

Heat frying pan, put In butter and milk. Slip eggs Into 
milk. Add seasonings and cook until white is partially set, 
stirring and scraping from bottom of pan. 

SCRAMBLED BGGS 

6 eg&s i tsp. salt 

i c. milk i tsp. pepper 

2 tbsp. butter 

Beat eggs slightly, add seasonings and milk. Heat pan, 
put in butter and, when melted, add egg mixture. Cook slowly 
until of creamy consistency, stirring constantly from bottom 
of pan. 

CODDLISD KGGS 

4 eg&s Salt 

15 c mtlk Pepper 

4 tsp. butter 

Scald milk and add egg slightly beaten. Cook over hot 
water, stirring constantly until of a soft, creamy consistency, 
then add seasoning. Serve with toast points or on buttered 
toast. 

BGGS A L.A GOLDBNROD. 

1 >;. white sauce for 4 hard-cooked eg^s 

creamed dishes 4 slices of toast 

Chop egg whites fine and add to sauce. Pour white sauce 
over toast cut in halves lengthwise or in triangles. Over this 
apriokle the yolk which has been forced through a potato ricer 
or strainer Garnish with parsley or toast points. 

SCALLOPED BOGS ' 

IJ c. white sauce for 1 c. buttered crumbs 

creamed dishes i tsp. salt 

6 cold, hard-cooked eggs 

Put alternate layers of sliced eggs and white sauce Into 
an oiled baking dish. Sprinkle with salt. Cover with crumbs 
and bake until sauce bubbles. 

EGG SOUFFLE 

Follow directions given under sauces. Equal portion of 
other food is omitted. 







PLAIN OMELET 


1 egg 




Spk. salt 


1 tbsp. 


water 


Spk. pepper 



gg PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Steparate egg, beat yolk slightly, add salt, pepper and 
water. Beat white until stiff and dry and fold into it the yolk 
mixture. Butter a frying pan, heat, turn into It the mixture, 
spread evenly over pan and cook slowly. When well puCed 
and delicately browned underneath put on top grate of oven 
until the omelet is firm. Run a knife or spatula under to loos'ea 
omelet, fold and turn onto hot platter. Before folding, 1 
tablespoonful of cooked, chopped meat, cheese or vegetable 
may bq spread over half of omelet. Vegetables or meat stock 
or milk may be used in place of water. 

TO FOLD AND TURN AN OMESLET 

Hold an omelet pan by handle with the left hand. With a 
spatnla make two 1-inch incisions opposite each other and at 
right angles to the handle. Place spatula under the part of 
ontelet nearest the handle, tip pan to nearly vertical position, 
fold omelet upon itself and it will fall to platter without 
breaking. 

BREAD OMEJLET WITH JELLY 

1 egg 2 tbsp. bread crumbs 

2 tbsp. milk Spk. pepper 
} tsp. salt Jelly 

Soak crumbs in milk until milk is completely absorbed. 
Add beaten yolk and seasoning. Fold into white, stifSy beaten, 
and cook as a plain omelet. Spread with jelly before folding. 
Sprinkle with sugar. 

orange: omeslet 

Make a plain omelet, using orange juice in place of water 
and omitting pepper. Serve garnished with sections of orange 
ana sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

oyste:r ohe:le:t 

i c. white sauce for i c. oysters 

creamed dishes 1 egg 

Make a plain omelet. Parboil oysters in white sauce, sear 
son to taste and pour around omelet. 



EGGS 69 

DBVILEiD EGGS 

4 cold, Jiafd-cooked eeea i tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. salad dressing 

Remove shell, cut lengthwise or crosswise through eggs 
and remove yolks. Mix yolks, salad dressing and salt to a 
smooth paste. Fill egg whites with mixture but do not pack 
tightly. 

EGG IN A NEST 

Break egg and separate yolk from white. Beat white until 
stiff, then add a few grains of salt. Pile on a circular piece of 
toasted bread, first dipped in boiling salted water. Make de- 
pression in center of white and drop in yolk. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven until delicately browned. 

EGG CROaUETTES 

8 hard-cooked eg&s 11 c. white sauce for 

croquettes 

Cut eggs in small pieces. Mix with sauce; chill. Mould 
into desired shape. Roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs. Fry in 
deep fat: drain. Serve with creamed peas. 



70 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

MEAT 

A knowledge o£ the structure of meat is essential In order 
to understand the effect of heat upon it. Musclar tissue Is 
made up of bundles of fibers which can be divided and subdi- 
vided into minute single fibers or tubes. These fibers are held 
together by a network of connective tissue. Fat is also stored 
between them in varying quantities. The tenderness or tough- 
ness of meat depends upon the character of the walls of the 
muscle fibers, as well as the connective tissue. 

Tbe muscle SPbers are filled with a liquid called muscle 
Juice, in which are dissolved the protein, mineral salts, and 
extractives of meat. Heat, which causes the connective tissue 
lo swell, tends to force the juices out of the muscle fibers. To 
prevent this, the protein on the surface of the meat should be 
coagulated by either plunging in boiling water or searing in a 
hot oven or in hot fat. When the coating of coagulated pro- 
tein has been formed, the heat must be reduced and the cook- 
ing continued at a moderate temperature. 

Dry heat hardens the connective tissue; therefore tough 
meats should be cooked in moist heat to soften and dissolve 
the connective tissue. Because salt extracts the juices from 
the meat, it should not be added until after the surface is 
coagulated. 

OVEN ROAST 

Choose a compact roasting piece. Wipe with a clean, 
damp cloth. Place on the rack in a roasting pan and put in a 
hot oven with roaster uncovered. When well seared, in about 
15 minutes, draw from the oven, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, and put on cover. Finish cooking at lowered temperature, 
allowing 15 minutes for rare, 20 minutes for medium, and 2 5 
minutes for well done, to each pound. 

A dripping pan may be used in place of a roaster, using 
another pan of similar size to cover. A rack may be made 
of a broiler, toaster, cake-rack or tin pot lid. A little water 
should be put in the roasting pan and, if the meat is very 
lean, additional fat or drippings may be used. 



MEAT 7 1 

POT ROAST OF BCEF 

Choose a compact piece of beef. Wipe with a damp cloth. 
Sear all surfaces in a hot, oiled trying pan. Plunge into boil- 
ing water, using a Itettle to fit the roast to avoid excess of 
water. After 30 minutes cooking, add 1 teaspoonful of salt 
and speck of pepper for each pound of meat, draw to back of 
range and cook slowly until done, allowing 20 minutes for 
rare, 25 minutes for medium, and 30 minutes for well done, to 
each pound. During the latter part of the cooking, have the 
kettle uncovered until most of the water is evaporated. 

PANBROILBD STEiAK 

Wipe and trim steak. Rub a bit of fat over the bottom of 
a smoking hot frying pan. Place the steak in the pan and sear 
both sides. Reduce the heat and turn occasionally, about 
every 2 minutes, until cooked, allowing 8 minutes for rare, 10 
minutes for medium, and 12 minutes for well done, for a 
steak 1 inch thick. Avoid puncturing the steak with a fork 
while cooking. Just before removing from the fire, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Place on a hot platter and dot with bits 
of butter, or serve with parsley butter, or garnish with water 
cress and slices of lemon. 

PLANKED STBAK 

Wipe, remove superfluous fat and panbroil 7 minutes a 
porterhouse steak cut 1 % inches thick. Oil a plank and ar- 
range a border of Duchess potatoes close to edge, using a pas- 
try bag and tube. Remove steak to plank, put into hot oven 
and bake until potatoes are browned. Spread steak with par- 
sley butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve on plank. 

BEEF BALIiS 

Wipe a small piece of steak cut from top of round. Lay 
on board and scrape with the grain of the meat, first on one side 
and then on the other, to remove soft part of meat, leaving the 
connective tissue. Form into small balls, handling as lightly 
as possible. Heat a frying pan, sprinkle with salt, shake con- 
stantly while adding balls and continue shaking until the sur- 



72 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

face of balls Is seared. Arrange on buttered toast and gar- 
nish with parsley. 

HAMBURG STEAK 

1 lb. beef 1 tsp. salt 

1 egg 1 tsp. onion Juice 

Grind meat -with food cutter. Beat egg slightly. Add egg. 

salt and onion juice to beef. Mix thoroughly and shape, into 

small, flat cakes. Panbroil. 

BAKED HAMBURG 

1 lb. beef Pepper 

1 egg 1 tsp. onion juice or 

1 tsp. salt chopped onion' 

Grind meat with food cutter. Beat egg slightly. Mix 
Ingredients thoroughly and shape into a compact loaf. Bake 
as an oven roast. 

FLANK STE:.\K EN CASSEROLE: 

1 flank steak 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 c. buttered crumbs 11 tsp. salt 

1 c. tomatoes Spk. pepper 

1 tsp. onion juice Spk. nutmeg 

1 pt. hot water or stock Spk. cloves 

Score steak closely on both sides. Rub into it the season- 
ings. Mix bread crumbs and tomatoes and spread over one 
side of steak. Roll and skewer. Sear. Place in casserole. 
Pour in the water or stock. Cover closely and bake in a slow 
oven for 2 hours. Lift steak from casserole. Thicken stock 
and pour over the steak. 

BR01VN MEAT STEi'W M^ITH DUMPLINGS 

2| lbs. beef shoulder } onion, chopped 

2 c. diced potatoes 2 tbsp. flour 
% c. turnips cut in J-ln. Salt 

cubes Pepper 
% c. carrots cut in }-in. 
cubes 

Wipe the meat, remove from the bone and fat, cut in 1 '/4- 
iiich cubes. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredge with 
flour. Brown meat in fat rendered from trimmings. Put into 



MEAT 73 

a kettle and rinse the frying pan with boiling water, that 
none of the juices may be lost. Add to the meat the remaininp; 
fat and the bone cut in pieces. Cover with boiling wa'er and 
boil 5 minutes. Lower temperature and cook until meat is 
tender. Add the carrots, the turnips, the onions, tbe pepper 
and salt during the last hour of cooking and the potatoes 1 5 
minutes before serving. Remove the bone and the large 
pieces of fat. Thicken with the flour. Serve with dumpling.s 
Such a stew may also be made from mutton, veal, pork 
or chicken, using other vegetables as desired. 

MEAT PIE 

Cut remnants of cold beef in 1-inch cubes. Cover witli 
boiling water, add % onion and cook slowly 1 hour. Remove 
onion, thicken gravy with flour to thickness of sauce for 
creamed dishes, season with salt and pepper. Add potatoes 
cut in %-inch slices, which have been parboiled 8 minutes 
Put into an oiled pudding dish, cover with baking powdci 
biscuit mixture or plain paste. Bake in hot oven. 

BOUCHEES OF MEAT 

2 u. cold mashed potatoes J c. milk or cream 

1 egg yolk Creamed meat 

Beat egg yolk slightly. Scald milk or cream. Pour over 

beaten egg, stirring constantly. Add to potato, beating 

Uioroughly. Line an oiled casserole with the potato mixture. 

Fill with creamed meat. Heat and brown slightly in the oven 

Individual casseroles may be used if desired 



JELLIED MEAT LOAF 

2 c. cooked meat 2 cloves 

1 c. stock i tsp. celery sail 

1 tbsp. gelatin Spk. salt 

1 tbsp. catsup Spk. pepper 

1 bay leaf 

Add seasonings to stock and bring to boiling point. Swell 
gelatin in cold water and dissolve in hot stock. Strain, add 
meat and mold. Serve garnished with hard-cooked egg. 



74 practical cookery 

casserole: of ricg and mesat 

1 c. cooked rice i c. crumbs 

2 c. cooked meat 1 tsp. lemon juica 
Spk. cayenne 1 egg 

i tsp. celery salt 1 tsp. salt 

Few drops onion Juice i tsp. pepper 

1 tsp. chopped green pep- 4 c. tomato juice 
pers 

Chop the meat fine and add the other ingredients, except 
the rice, mixing well. Line a casserole with rice 1 inch thick 
and fill the center with the meat mixture. Cover well with 
the rice. Bake 20 minutes. Serve hot with tomato sauce. 
This may be steamed in a mold 30-45 minutes-and turned onto 
a platter to serve. 

braise:u bekf 

3 lbs. beef J c. onions 

2 thin slices fat salt pork i c. celery 

3 c. boiling' water Pepper 
} c, carrots Salt 

i c. turnips 

Try out the pork and remove the scraps. Wipe the meat, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and brown in 
the pork fat. Place in casserole and cover with vegetables 
and the boiling v,rater. Cover closely and bake 4 hours in very 
slow oven. 

iMIIVCEU MEAT ON TOAST 

1 c. diced cooked meat 1 c. brown sauce flavored 
6 slices of toast with tomato 

Reheat meat in brown sauce and pour over toast 

MEAT SOUFFLE 

Follow directions given under sauces. For food use any 
cooked ground meat. 

5IEAT CROQ.UETTES 

Follow directions given under sauces. For food use any 
cooked ground meat. 

RRESLAU OF MEAT 

t pt. chopped beet, veal or i u. stock 

chicken j c. fresh bread crumbe 

2 tbsp. butter 1 tbap. chopped parsley 



MEAT 75 

i pt. milk or cream 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

3 eee yolks Tomato sauce 
1 tsp. salt 

Beat the yolks, mix the ingredients together. Press the 
mixture into buttered molds. Place in pan of hot water and 
bake in hot oven 30 minutes. When done, unmold onto platter, 
pour tomato sauce around the molds and garnish with toast 
points. 

BOILED tongue: 

1 tongue 1 tbsp. vinegar 

4 cloves 1 tbsp. salt 

4 peppercorns 5 tsp. pepper 

Wipe the tongue and place in boiling water to which the 
seasoning has been added. Boil for 10 minutes, then draw to 
a cooler part of the range and simmer until tender (3-4 hours). 
Partially cool in the liquid, take the tongue from the water and 
remove the skin and the roots. If pickled tongue is used and 
is very salt, it should be soaked in cold water several hours, 
or over night, before cooking. 

ASPIC je:i,l,y 

3 c. white or brown stock Lemon Juice 

1 tbsp. gelatin Salt 

i c. cold .water Pepper 

Bay leaf Celery salt 
Worcestershire sauce 

(If the stock does not form a soft jelly itself when cold, 
use 1% tablespoonfuls of gelatin.) 

Soak gelatin in cold water and dissolve over boiling water. 
Put seasonings to taste into stock and heat together. Clarify, 
stir in dissolved gelatin and strain. Mold and decorate with 
meat or vegetables as desired. 

TONGUE IN ASPIC 

1 u. diced tongue 1 hard-cooked egg and pl- 

IJ c liquid aspic Jelly mento or parsley for 

decoration 

Prepare according to directions for decorating gelatin 
molds. Add tongue. Let stand until firm and unmold. 



7 6 PRACTICAL. COOKERY 

CRBAMKD SVl^KEiTBREIASS 

Let sweetbreads stand in cold water 1 hour. Drain and 
put into acidulated, boiling salt water. Let boil 20 minutes, 
then plunge into cold water to keep white and firm. 

Cut parboiled sweetbreads into cubes and reheat in white 
sauce. They may be served on toast or used as a filling for 
patty cases or Swedish timbales. 

STUFFED HEART 

Remove veins and arteries. Wash carefully. Simmer for 
1 hour. Stuff. Sprinkle with salt and fepper (1 tablespoon- 
ful of salt to 1 pound; pepper to taste). Dredge with flour. 
Bake in a covered dish 2 hours, partly covered with, liquid in 
which it was stewed. Thicken liquid with flour to the thickness 
of sauce for creamed dishes and serve hot. 

LIVER AND BACON 

Cut the liver in slices % inch thick and cover with boiling 
water. Let stand 5 minutes to draw out the blood, drain, wipe, 
and remove outer skin and veins. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dredge with flour and saut4 in bacon fat. Serve with 
bacon. 

PRESSED VEAL 

3 lbs. lean veal 1 egg 

2 slices salt pork Salt 

6 crackers (rolled) Pepper 

} c. melted butter Sage 

Wipe veal and salt pork and force through meat chopper. 
Add crackers, butter and egg, slightly beaten. Season highly 
with salt, pepper and sage. Mix well. Pack in a small bread 
tin and bake slowly 3 hours. Cool before turning from tin. 
Cut in thin slices for serving. May be served hot or cold. 

BREADED VEAL, CUTLETS 

Use round of veal cut % inch thick. Wipe, remove the 
bone and cut in pieces suitable for individual portions. Par- 
boll. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in flour, beaten egg 
and crumbs. Saut4 or fry. 



MEAT 77 

VEAL BIRDS 

Use 3-inch squares of round ot veal. Spread each piece 
•with stuffing, keeping it away from the edges. Trimmings may 
be ground and mixed with stuffing. If stuffing is not used, 
sprinkle with flour, salt and pepper. A slice of bacon may 
be substituted for the stuffing. Roll, skewer with toothpicks, 
roll in flour and saut6. Half cover with milk or water and 
simmer until tender. Remove to a hot platter and make a 
sauce for Creamed dishes, using the contents of the pan. Cover 
steak with sauce and serve. Veal birds may be baked instead 
of stewed. 

ROAST VKAL 

Roast as roast beef. Season highly to make it palatable. 
This is necessary because of the small per cent of extractives. 

ROAST PORK 

Roast as roast beef, cooking well done. 

PANBROILED OR BAKED CHOPS 

Chops are cut from either the rib or loin of lamb, mutton 
or pork. Rib chops, which have the bone shortened and scraped 
clean of meat nearly to the "eye" of lean meat, are called 
French chops. 

Wipe the chops, trim off extra fat. Panbroil. Season. In 
place ot panbroiling, tjtve chops may be baked. A spoonful of 
stuffing may be placed on each chop before baking. 

CURRY OF MUTTON 

1 lb. neck or breast ot } tsp. curry powder 
mutton 1 slice onion 

2 tsp. salt Peppercorns 
Spk. pepper Parsley 

Wipe and cut mutton in 1-inch pieces. Parboil, drain and 
return to kettle. Cover with 1 quart boiling water, add onion, 
peppercorns and parsley. Simmer until meat is tender. Re- 
move meat, strain liquor and use to make a sauce for creamed 
dishes. Flavor with curry. Add meats, reheat and serve wifu 
a border of steamed rice or mashed potatoes. 



78 PRACTICAL COOKERY 



POUliTRY 



TO DRESS AND CLEAN 

Cut ofE the head and draw out the pin feathers. Remove 
hairs and down by holding the fowl over a flame (from gas, 
alcohol or burning paper), constantly changing the position 
\mtil all parts of the surface have been exposed to the flame. 
If tendons are to be drawn, cut through the skin around the 
leg 1^ inches below the leg joint, care being taken not to 
cut the tendons. Place the leg at this cut over the edge of 
the table and press downward to snap the bone. Hold the 
drumstick firmly with left hand and, using a steel skewer or 
fork, draw out the tendons one by one. Cut off the feet. Wash 
the fowl thoroughly, using a small brush, in water to which 
a little soda has been added. Rinse. Make a slit down th6 
back of the neck. Remove crop and windpipe. Draw down 
the neck skin and cut off the neck close to the body, leaving 
the skin long enough to fasten under the back. Make a 
straight cut from % inch below tip of breastbone to vent. Cut 
around vent. Slip fingers in carefully and fully loosen en- 
trails. Carefully draw out entrails. The lungs, lying in the 
cavities under the breast, ahd the kidneys, in the hollow near 
the end of the backbone, must be taken out separately. Re- 
move the oil sack and wash the fowl by allowing cold water to 
run through it. 

TO CLEAN GISLETS 

The gizzard, the heart and the liver are known as the 
"giblets." Separate the gall bladder from the liver, cutting 
off any portion of the liver that may have a greenish tinge. Re- 
move the thin membranei the arteries, the veins, and the 
clotted blood around the heart. Cut the fat and the membranes 
from the gizzard. Make a gash through the thickest part of 
the gizzard as far as the inner lining, being careful not to 
pierce it. Remove the inner sack and discard. Wash care- 
fully. 

TO TRUSS 
When the fowl is wiped, singed and drkwn as by direc- 



MEAT 79 

tions given above, put in the stuffing, it it is to be used; place a 
little in the opening at the neck.the rest in the body and sew 
up the opening. Draw the skin of the neck smoothly down 
and under the back, press the wings close against the body and 
fold the pinions under, crossing the back and holding down the 
skin of the neck. Press the legs close to the body and slip 
them under the skin as much as possible. Thread the trussing 
needle with white twine, using it double. Press the needle 
through the wing by the middle joint, pass it through the skin 
of the neck and back and out again at the middle joint of 
the other wing. Return the needle through the bend of the 
leg at th§ second point, through the body and out at the same 
point on the other side; draw the cord tight and tie it with 
the end at the wing joint. Thread the needle again and run 
•it through the legs and body at the thigh bone and back at the 
ends of the drumsticks. Draw the drumstick bones close to- 
gether, covering the opening made for drawing the fowl, and 
tie the ends. Have both knots on the same side of the fowl. 
When cooked, cut the cord on the opposite side and by the 
knots it can easily be drawn out. 

TO BONE 

Clean and carefully wash the chicken. Remove the neck 
by making an incision in the skin at the point on the back of 
the neck where it joins the body. Cut through the skin toward 
the head, folloycing the center of the neck. Cut off the head. 
Loosen the skin. Loosen the crop and the gullet from the 
gizzard and remove. Pull out the windpipe. At the base of 
the neck, cute the ligaments on both sides. Cut off the neck, 
being careful not to cut through the skin. 

Place the chicken on Its rump. Fold back the loose skin 
of the neck and scrape the wishbone bare. Pass the knife 
under the bones on both sides, thus loosening them from th& 
shoulders. With the fingers, free the wishbone from the meat, 
at the same time working it but of the body. 

Fold the loosened skin over the wing and hold It In place 
with the left hand. Turn the flesh inside out and work the 
bones loose with the fingers. The tip of the wing may be ciit 



so 



PRACTICAL. COOKERY 



off or left uaboned. Be careful not to cut through the skin. 
Free the flesh from the other shoulder and wing in the same 
way. 

Lay the chicken on its rump and carefully cut the flesh 
from the ribs and back. Fold the loosened flesh back with the 
left hand, so that the knife can follow the bones closely. The 
skin lies very close over the ridge of the breastbone and great 
care must be exercised to keep it whole. Use the fingers rath- 
er than the knife. When the hip joint is reached, push the 
flesh from the second joint, then from the leg, pulling the 
flesh down over the ends of the legs just as one often turns 
a glove wrong side out. Free the bones on the other side in 
the same way. 

Loosen the flesh from all of the bones surrounding the 
cavity. Cut a small hole around the vent. The back and keel 
containing the entrails may be slipped out through the neck 
opening. 

TO CUT UP A FOWL 

Cut off the head, draw out the pinfeathers, singe, remove 
the tendons, the feet and the oil sack. Wash thoroughly and 
cut off the neck. Cut through the loose skin between the leg 
and the body close to the body, bend back the leg (thus break- 
ing the ligaments), cut through the flesh and separate at the 
joint. Separate the upper part of the leg, the second joint, 
from the lower part of the leg, the drumstick. Cut through 
the skin and the flesh on the under side, where the wing joins 
the body, and disjoint the wing. Remove the leg and the wing 
from the other side. .Separate the breast from the back by 
cutting through the skin just below the breastbone and remove 
the internal organs. Bend the back portion until the backbone 
is broken and divide the back by cutting through the middle 
lengthwise. Remove the wishbone with the adjoining meat 
and separate the breast meat into two parts by cutting through 
the flesh close to the bone. Wash the pieces carefully. 

ROAST CHICKEN 

Dress, clean, stuff and truss a fowl. Lay on back on rack 
in roasting pan. Lay strip of salt pork on breast. Place in 



UBAT 81 

hot oven until It begins to brown, then lower temperature and 
cook until very tender. Baste often with drippings in pan. 
Prom's to 4 hours will be required. 

STUFFING 

4 c. finely broken stale t tap. chopped parsley 

bread S tsp. ground sage 

15 tsp. salt 4 tbsp. butter 

h tsp. pepper 2 tsp. baking powder 

Hot milk or water to 
moisten 

Mix the salt, the pepper, the sage and the baking powder. 
Sprinkle over the bread, add the chopped parsley and the 
melted butter. Pour on the hot liquid gradually and mix 
thoroughly, stirring lightly. 

GIBLET SAUCE 

Make a brown sauce for creamed dishes, using for the fat, 
the drippings in the roaster; for the liquid, the stock in which 
the giblets have been cooked, and additional water it necessary, 
and stir in the giblets, finely diced. 

PRICASBE OF CHICKEN 

1 fowl Salt 

1 c. cream Pepper 

3 egg yolks 

Cut up a fowl. Stew until tender and remove from liquid. 
Reduce liquid to 2 cupfuls. Make a sauce for creamed dishes, 
using the cream and stock mixed for the liquid. Pour the hot 
sauce over the beaten yolks of eggs. Place chicken in center 
of platter, surround with steamed rice or mashed potatoes and 
pour over it the sauce. 

SAUTED CHICKBIV 

Cut up a young chicken. Season with salt and pepper and 
d-eedge with flour. Brown in a generous quantity of hot tat. 
Cover and cook slowly 30 minutes. 

MARYLAND CHICKEN 

Dress, clean and cut up a fowl. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
-« 



82 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

and flour, egg and crumb. Place in a well-oiled roaster and 
bake until tender in a moderate oven, basting after the first 5 
minutes of cooking with melted fat, or pour over it Vz cupful 
of cream. Prepare brown sauce, using the drippings in the 
pan, and serve with the chicken. 

CHICKBN LOAF IVITH ASPARAGUS 

1 chicken I tsp. salt 

t c. fresh bread crumbs J tsp. paprika 

1 c. milk 3 eggs 

Cut up a chicken, parboil and remove flesh from bone and 
force through a food chopper. Cook the bread crumbs in the 
milk to a thin paste, stirring frequently. Add the salt, paprika 
and the chopped meat. Add the well-beaten yolks of eggs and 
fold in the whites, beaten dry. Turn the chicken mixture into 
an oiled mold and shake, that it may settle evenly. Set in 
a pan of hot water and let cook slowly for % of an hour to 2 
hours, according to the age of the chicken. Turn from the 
mold onto a hot platter, garnish with asparagus in toast rings 
and serve with Bechamel sauce. 

JBI.LIRD CHICKEN 

1 chicken cooked until Olives or pickles 
tender Celery or celery salt 

4 hard-cooked eggs Salt 

2 tbsp. gelatin Pepper 

Reduce the liquor in which the chicken was cooked to 1 
pint. Add the diced or minced chicken, sliced eggs, the celery, 
salt and pepper, and pickles or olives. Add the gelatin soaked 
in % cupful of cold water and dissolved over hot water. Put 
into wet molds and chill thoroughly. The jelly and the food 
may be added one layer at a time, arranging th« food in a 
design if desired. 

COLD SOUFFLE 

i c. liquid aspic J c. cream 

i c. tomato puree J c. chopped, cooked 

i tbsp. vinegar chicken 

Whip the cream until stiff. Add tomato pur6e and vinegar 
to the aspic. Add this to the whipped cream, keeping all 



MEAT 83 

chilled. Fold in the chopped, cooked chicken. Place on ice 
until thoroughly cold and serve. 

•CnEAM OF CHICKEN G I.ACE 

} c. double cream Salt 

J c. cooked chicken Pepper 

i c. cliiiken aspic Celery salt 

Cut chicken into cubes. Beat cream until stiff. Pour the 
aspic over the cream, season and blend together. Fold in the 
chicken. Chill thoroughly. Cut in dice or slices % inch thick 
and serve on lettuce leaves. May be dressed with French 
dressing. 

CREAMED FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH ONIONS 

H c. stock i c. cream 

4 tbsp. flour 3 egg' yolks 

3 tbsp. butter Salt 

2 chickens Pepper 

4 bunches of onions Ijemon juice 

Remove breasts and second joints from chickens. Cook in 
small quantity of water with onions. Remove chicken to 
serving dish as soon as tender. Reduce stock. Drain onions 
from stock. Melt butter. Add flour and pour stock in grad- 
ually. As soon as boiling point is reached, add cream, slightly 
beaten egg yolks, salt, pepper and lemon juice to taste. Add 
onions and pour pver chicken. 



FISH 



Fish may be baked, broiled, fried or saut6d, according to 
individual fancy, but certain ways are more suitable for some 
varieties than for others. Oily 'fish, as salmon, bluefish and 
mackerel, being rich and moist, should be cooked by other 
methods than saut^ing and frying. White fish, as cod, haddock 
and halibut, will bear cooking by these latter methods. When 
the white varieties are cooked in water, they should be served 
with rich sauces and, when baked, they should be larded and 
basted often. All fish must be thoroughly cooked. 



S4 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

TO CLEAN 

Flsb, either fresh or salt, is better if it is cleaned and 
drawn immediately on being taken from the water. Fish 
cleaned at the market will need additional cleaning. Remove 
the scales which have not been taken off. This is done by 
drawing a knife over the fish, beginning at the tail and working 
toward the head, occasionally wiping the knife and the scales 
from the fish. Incline the knife slightly toward you to prevent 
the scales from flying. Wash quickly, inside and out, drain, 
and dry. 

TO SKIN 

Cut off the fins along the back and then a narrow strip ef 
skin down the full length of the back; also cut the skin around 
the head. Loosen the skin below the head, then draw it oft 
from one side of the fish, pulling gently with one hand and 
pushing with the back of a knife held in the other hand, so as 
to keep the flesh whole. Repeat the process on the other side 
of the fish. 

TO BONE 

Beginning at the tail, run a sharp knife close to the back- 
bone its entire- length. With knife and fingers remove flesh 
carefully from bones. Repeat on the other side. 

Cod, haddock, halibut and white fish are easily and fre- 
quently boned. 

A fillet is a piece of fish, large or small, freed from skin 
and bones. 

TO COOK IN WATER 

Small fish are cooked whole; large fish are cut in thick 
pieces for boiling. Sufiicient water to cover the fish is used, 
to which is added salt and lemon juice or vinegar. Salt gives 
flavor; lemon juice, or vinegar, keeps the fiesh white. A long 
fish kettle containing a rack on which to place the fish is use- 
ful, but rather expensive. In place of this, if the fish is not too 
large to be coiled in it, a frying basket may be. used, placed in 
any kettle, or the fish may be tied in a piece of cheesecloth. 
Fish should be placed in warm water which is brought quick- 
ly to the boiling point, then simmered until the 'flesh separates 



MEAT eS 

readny from, the bones. After simmering begins, the cooking 
will take from 5 to 8 minutes to the pound, according to the 
thickness. 

BROILBD FISH 

Split the fish down the back. Clean and wipe as dry as 
possible. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and place in a well 
oiled wire broiler. Broil first on the 'flesh side, then turn and 
broil on the skin side just long enough to make the skin brown 
and crisp. Remove from broiler to a hot platter. 

SAUTKD FISH 

Clean fish and cut in individual portions. Dip in flour, 
com meal or fine bread crumbs. SautS. 

FRIED FISH 

Clean fish and cut in individual portions. Sprinkle with 
salt. Crumb, egg and crumb fish. Fry, drain and serve. 

PLANKFD FISH 

Select any white fish (whitefish or shad preferred). 
Scale or skin fish, wash and wipe dry. Bone and place on a 
hot plank, skin side down, folding one side over the other, thus 
bringing the two halves together. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and baste with butter. (Fish may be larded with bacpn 
strips.) Place on grate of oven and bake 30 minutes. Serve 
on plank, garnished with lemon and parsley or with mashed 
potatoes. 

BAKED FISH WITH OYSTER STUFFING 

1 fresh fish, 3 or 4 lbs. Lemon juice 

1 pt. oysters 1 egg 

Salt 1 tbsp. milk 

Pepper 1 c. crumbs 

Clean, skin and bone fish. Season the fillets thus produced 
with salt and pepper and brush with lemon juice and beaten 
egg, diluted with the milk. Lay one of the seasoned fillets 
on a well oiled fish sheet. Cover with oysters dipped in 
crumbs. Lay the other fillet over these. Brush with beaten egg. 
Cover thickly with buttered crumbs and bake about an homr. 
Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 



86 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

FISH TURBANS 

Cut fillet of fish. Roll into circle and skewer with tooth- 
picks. Lay thin slice of bacon on each turban. Place on rack 
in baking pan and bake in moderate oven 20 minutes. Remove 
toothpicks and serve with HoUandaise sauce. 

SCALLOPED FISH 

Follow directions given under sauces. For food use 
cooked, shredded or flaked fish. 

FISH SODFFLB 

Follow directions given under sauces. For food use 
cooked, shredded or flaked fish. 

FISH CROftUETTS 

Follow directions given under sauces. For food use 
cooked, shredded or flaked fish. 

CREAMED FISH 

Follow directions given under sauces. For food use 
cooked, shrdded or flaked fish. 

FISH BALLS 

1 c salt codfish I well beaten egg 

2 c. raw potatoes t tbsp. butter 

Shred codfish. Soak over night. Lift out of water and 
boil until tender. Boil and mash potatoes. Add codfish, bat- 
tear and egg. Beat with fork 2 minutes. Form in balls t% 
inches in diameter and fry, drain and serve. 

SALMON LOAF 

1 c. bread crumbs 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

2 a salmon i tsp. salt 

2 c. white sauce tor } tsp. cayenne pepper 

croquettes 2 eggrs 

Add seasoning to white sauce. Add bread crumbs and 
salmon. Add eggs, slightly beaten. Put into oiled molds and 
steam 1 hour. Serve with tomato, brown or white sauce. 



MEAT 87 

CASSEROLE OP RICE AND SALMON 

Prepare as casserole of rice and meat, using canned or 
cooked salmon. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Clean and dry oysters. Season with salt and pepper, 
crumb, egg and crumb. Pry and drain. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Clean and drain oysters. Pill oiled baking dish with al- 
ternate layers of buttered bread crumbs and oysters, having 
the last layer of crumbs. Season well with bits of butter, salt 
and pepper. Pour enough milk into the dish to moisten 
thoroughly; bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL 

24 small raw oysters j tsp. salt 

6 tbsp. tomato catsup 6 tsp. cUopped celery 

3 tbsp. lemon juice or 8 tsp. Worcestershire 

vinegar sauce 

12 drops Tobasco sauce 6 tsp. grated horseradish 

Mix all the ingredients except oysters and chill thoroughly. 
Place oysters on cracked ice in cocktail glasses and, just before 
serving, add the sauce. 



88 PRACTICAL COOKERY 



CHEESE 

Cheese is a very valuable food, which is rich in protein 
and therefore may be substituted for meat and used much more 
commonly than it is It is, however, a very concentrated food 
difficult of digestion in its raw state, and should be diluted. 
in cooking, with milk or eggs. To be digestible, it should al- 
ways be cooked at a moderate temperature or protected from 
the high heat of the oven by layers of other materials, such as 
thin slices of bread or layers of crumbs. 

COTTAGE CHEESE 

3.qts. sour milk Salt 

2 tbsp. butter Pepper 

Pour milk into a flat pan and let stand in a warm place 
on stove (about 37° C. or 98° F.) until the curd is completely 
separated from the whey. Strain through a cloth and shake 
until dry. Stir in butter, salt and pepper, and cool before 
serving. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE 

2 i;. cooked macaroni 1 c. grated cheese 

2 c. white sauce for h i;. buttered crumbs 

creamed dishes 
Combine macaroni, cheese and sauce in layers in buttered 
baking dish and sprinkle crumbs over top. Bake in a moderate 
oven until browned. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

1 c. white sauce for 3 eggs 

souffles 1 c grated cheese 

Add cheese to white sauce and stir until melted. Proceed, 
following directions for sou£3^s given under sauces. 

SPICED CUE^E PUDDING 

2 slices stale bread i c. sugar. 

2 eggs 3 c. seeded raisins 

i tsp. salt J tsp. allspice 

1 c milk J tsp. mace 

1 c. cottage cheesy j tsp. cloves 
i tsp. soda 



CHEESE Sfl 

Cut the bread into cubes and place in an oiled baking dish. 
Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. Blend witli 
yolks the milk, salt, sugar and cheese, to which has been added 
the soda. Add the spice and chopped raisins and, lastly, fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites. Pour this mixture over the cubes 
of bread and bake like a custard in a moderate oven. If de- 
sired, the white of 1 egg may be beaten separately, sweetened 
with 1 tablespoon of sugar and spread over the top of the 
pudding just before removing it from the oven. 

chbejse; pudding 

8 thin slices of bread, 2 c. milk 

buttered s tsp. salt 

li c. grated cheese Pepper 

4 eggs 

Oil baking dish. Cut bread to fit bottom of dish. Place 
te dish, add cheese and cover with bread. Mix egg, milk, 
salt and pepper and pour over contents of dish. Set in a pan 
of hot water and bake in a moderate oven until firm, 

CHEESE FONDli 

1 «^ scalded millt 1 tbsp. butter 

1 c. soft, stale bread 5 tsp. salt 
crumbs 3 egg yolks 

5 lb. mild cheese, cut in 3 egg whites 
small pieces 

Mix miHt, bread crumbs, cheese, melted butter and salt 
Add yolks of eggs, beaten until lemon-colored. Cut and fold in 
whites of eggs, beaten until stiff. Pour into a buttered baking 
Aisit and bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

che:bse: balls 

S c grated cheeee Spk. cayenne pepper 

2 tbsp. flour 4 egg whites 

i tsp. salt Cracker crumbs 

Mix oheese, flour and seasonings. Add stiffly beaten 
whites. Shape in small balls, »oIl in cracker crumbs and fry 
•ntil golden brown. 



90 



PRACTICAL, COOKERY 



CHBBSE CANAPES 

Toast circular pieces of bread, buttered thinly. Sprinkle 
with thick layer of grated cheese,, seasoned with salt and ca- 
yenne. Place on a baking sheet and bake until cheese (a 
melted. Serve at once. 



1 tbsp. butter 
1 tbsp. flour 
1 c. milk 
6 tbsp. cheese 

Make a cream sauce, 
stirring constantly until 
crackers. 



BARBBIT 

i tsp. 9alt 

i tsp. mustard 

Crackers or toast 

add cheese and cook over hot water, 
cheese melts. Serve on toast or 



SOUPS 91 



SOUPS 

SOUPS MADE WITH STOCK 

Standard Broth is made from any meat or meats, seasoned 
and strained. 

Bouillon is made from lean meat, delicately seasoned and 
iisually cleared. 

Consomm£ is usually made from two or three kinds of 
meat, highly seasoned and always served clear. 

Miscellaneous soups are made from vegetables, alone or 
with meats. 

SOUPS MADE WITH OR WITHOUT STOCK 
Purees are made by pressing any vegetable through a 
sieve into its own stock. 

I'lain purees are thick soups in which the vegetable pulp 
'piir6e) is combined with its own or a meat stock. 

Milk purees are thick soups in which the pur^e is diluted 
with cream or milk. 

Bisques are generally made from diced shell fish, broth, 
milk and seasonings. 

Cliowder is a thick unstrained stew made by combining 
cut meat, fish and vegetables with milk. 

TO CLEAR STOCK 

Remove the fat; if the stock' has jellied, wring a cloth out 
of warm water and gently wipe over the surface. The cloth, 
will take up any particles of fat remaining upon the jelly. If 
the stock is liquid, lay a piece of tissue paper upon it, press it 
lightly upon the liquid and the fat will adhere to it. If it is 
desired to use the stock before it has become thoroughly cold 
and the fat set, dip the tat from the top with a spoon. Then 
put a piece of ice wrapped in a cloth into the stock, holding it 
near the top, and the remaining fat will cling to the cloth. To 
■each quart of stock add the crushed shell and slightly beaten 
white of 1 egg. Mi.x together thoroughly and heat, stirring all 
the time until the liquid boils. As the liquid heats, the egg 



92 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

albumen coagulates. Any fine particles floating in the stock 
will adhere to the coagulated albumen. Some rise to the top 
and form scum, others are precipitated. Let boil vigorously 5 
minutes, then add % cupful of cold water arid set the sauce- 
pan aside or on the cool part of the range for about 5 minutes. 
Skim carefully, then strain through a double thickness of 
cheescloth placed over a fine strainer. Reheat and serve. 
If the stock to be cleared is not sufiSciently seasoned, additional 
seasoning must be added as soon as the stock has lost its jelly- 
like consistency, otherwise it will be cloudy. 

BROWN SOUP STOCK 

6 lbs. shin of beef 2 sprigs parsley 

3 qts. cold water J c. carrots, diced 

I tsp. peppercorns J v. turnips, diced 

6 cloves I c. onions, diced 

S bay leaf J t. celery, diced 

Wipe beef and cut the lean meat in inch cubes. Brown 
%of meat in hot frying pan in the marrow. Put remaining 
% with bone and fat in soup kettle, add water and .let stand 
for 30 minutes. Place on the cool part of the range, add 
browned meat and heat gradually to boiling point. Cover and 
cook slowly 6 hours, keeping below boiling point. Add vege- 
tables and .seasonings, cook 1 % hours and strain. 



WHITE SOUP STOCK 

4 lbs. knuckle of veal 1 onion 

2 qts. cold water 2 stalks celery 

1 tbsp. salt Blade of mace or 1 bay leaf 

I tsp. peppercorns 1 lemon, sliced 

Wipe the meat, remove from bone and cut in small pieces. 
Put meat. bone, water. lemon and seasoning in kettle. Heat 
gradually to boiling point. Simmer 4 or 5 hours and strain. 

CHICKEN BROTH WITH EGG 

Beat 1 egg slightly and pour in gradually, while stirring 
constantly, 1 cupful of boiling chicken stock. 



SODPS S3 

EGG BOUILLON 

1 egg 1 c. brown stock 

Beat egg slightly and pour the heated stock over It grad- 
ually, stirring constantly. 

JVLIENNK SOUP 

1 qt. brown soup stock i c. mixed cooked vege- 

tables cut In strips, 
cubes, or fancy shapes 

Heat stock to boiling and add the cut vegetables. 

GERMAN BROWN BROTH 

2 carrots i tbsp. olive oil 
1 slice onion 1 bay leaf 

1 tsp. salt 1 qt. boiling water 

12 cheese balls Pepper 

1 potato 

Scrape and dice the carrots. Pare and dice the potato. 
Slice the onion. Put olive oil into a saucepan. Add the vege- 
tables and shake until a golden brown. Take them out with 
a skimmer and put them into a kettle. Add boiling water, bay 
leaf, salt, and pepper. Simmer 20 minutes. Press through a 
pur6e sieve, return to kettle. Serve with cheese balls. 

CREAM SOUP 

Follow directions given under sauces. For food use stock 
and pulp of any boiled vegetable. 

CREAM OF SALMON SOUP 

Make as lor cream soups, using % the proportion of 
butter. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

IJ t. hot white sauce 2 cloves 

1 c. tomato juice and pulp 1 bay leaf 

Spk. baking soda 

Add cloves and bay leaf to tomatoes and bring to a boil. 
Let boil 1 minute, then add soda and strain. Pour the tomato 
juice into the white sauce, stirring constantly, and reheat 
quickly. Avoid bringing to a boil. Whip with Dover beater 
and serve a* once. 



94 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

EHESRGBNCT SOUP 

1) c. tomatoes Spk. pepper 

3 c. water Spk. celery salt 
2 tbsp. butter 3 tap. salt 

1 tbsp.' cornstarch 3 cloves 

Mix all ingredients together and cook 1 5 minutes, stirring 
occasionally to prevent sticking. Strain and serve. 

JVBAPOLITAN SOUP 

2 c. milk 1 tsp. flour 

1 egg } c. cooked macaroni 

% rind of lemon } tsp. salt 

'^ small onion 

Heat 1 % cupf uls of milk with lemon 'rind and onion to 
bo'iling point; simmer for a few minutes and strain. Make a 
paste with flour and the remainder of the milk, add to hot 
milk and stir until it boils. Beat egg with salt until light and 
pour onto it gradually % boiling milk, ^stirring all the time. 
Heat all together until very hot, but do not boil. Add maca- 
roni cut in Vi -inch lengths. Sprinkle chopped parsley over and 
serve. 

BE.\N AND TOMATO SOUP 

1 v. boiled beans i c. thin cream 

1 c. stewed tomatoes J c. cooked rice 

li tsp. salt 

Press beans and tomatoes through a sieve. Add salt, 
cream and rice. Thin to cream soup consistency with boiling 
water. 

CHICKEN GUMBO 

1 onion, finely chopped 2 tsp salt 

4 tbsp. butter } tsp. pepper 

1 qt. chicken .stock J green pepper, flnely 

J can okra chopped 

Cook onion with butter 5 minutes, stirring constantly. 
Add to chicken stock to which have been added remaining In- 
gredients. Bring to the boiling point and let simmer for 40 
minutes. 



SOUPS 95 

cheese: soup 

1 qt. milk 1 blade mace 

1 tbsp. onion Pepper pod 

2 tbsp. flour i c. grated cheese 
2 tbsp. butter 2 egg yolks 

1 c. milk 1 tsp. salt 

Put oniqn, mace and pepper pod in milk and scald. Strain 
scalded milk over blended fat and flour and bring to a boll, stir- 
ring constantly. Add cheese and stir until it is melted. Pour 
this mixture slowly onto beaten yolks and whip until frothy. 

, PEANUT SOUP 

2 c. milk Salt 

4 tbsp. peanut butter Pepper 

Scald milk, add peanut butter and seasonings to taste, and 
serve. 

ALMOND SOUP 

% c. almonds 3 tbsp. butter 

6 bitter almonds 2 tbsp. flour 

4 -tbsp. cold water 2 c. scalded milk 

I tsp. salt 1 c. cream 

3 c. stock Salt 

1 small onion Pepper 
3 stalks celery 

Blanch, chop and force almonds through a meUt cutter. 
Add gradually water and salt; then add stock, sliced onion 
and celery. Let simmer 1 hour and rub thromgh a sieve. Melt 
butter, add flour, and pour on gradually the hot liquor; then 
add milk, cream, and salt and pepper to taste. Serve with 
mock almonds. 

BAKED BEAN "SeUP WITH TOtdATO 

3 c. cold baked beans 2 tbsp. butter 

3 pts. water 2 tbsp. flour 

2 slices onion 1 tbsp. Chili sauce 
2 stalks celery Salt 

11 c. stewed and strained Pepper 
tomatoes 

Put beans, water, onion and celery into a kettle, bring to 
boUing point and simmer 30 minutes. Rub through a sieve, 
add tomato, Chili sauce, and butter and flour rubbed together. 
Boil 3 minutes and season to taste with salt and pepper. ' 



96 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

OYSTI3R STEW 

1 c. oysters Salt 

2 c. milk Pepper 
2 tbsp. butter 

Clean and drain oysters, add enough water to oorer and 
scatd. With a skimmer remove particles which float to top. 
Add scalded milk, seasoning, bring to the boiling point and 
serve. 

CORIV CHOWDEIR 

1 c. corn 1 c. cream or milk 

i lb. salt pork, diced Salt' 

1 onion, sliced Pepper 

1 at. boiling water 8 crackers 
1 qt. potatoes, sliced 

Parboil potatoes. Drain. Try the fat from pork. Slice 
the onion and brown in the fat. Add the fkt to boiling' water, 
add potatoes and corn and cook until tender. Add the cream 
or milk and season to taste. Reheat and pour over the 
crackers. 

FISH CHOWDER 

1 c. flsli, diced 1 c. cream or miltc 

} lb. salt pork, diced Salt 

1 onion, sliced Pepper 

1 qt. fish stock 8 crackers^ 

1 at. potatoes, sliced 

Clean, bone and dice fish. Make stock from diced fish and 
fish bones. Parboil potatoes. Drain. Try the fat from pork. 
Slice the onion and brown in the fat. Add the fat to boiling 
stock, add potatoes add fish and cook until tender. Add creair 
or milk and seasoning to ta^te. Reheat and pour over 
crackers. 

CORN SOCP^ 

2 c. sauce for cream soups 2 tsp. onion. Juice 
1 c corn 2 egg yolks 

t c water 

Bro-wn onion in butter before making sauce. Cook com 
in water till softened. Rub through coarse sieve. Add com 
to sauce and pour over beaten egg. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 97 



FLOUR MIXTURES 

Flour mixtures are combinations of liquid and flour. These 
are leavened by the addition of some material which will 
lighten the mixture, thus increasing the digestibility and im- 
proving the appearance and taste. 

Flour mixtures are classified as doughs and batters. The 
classification is based upon the proportion of flour to liquid. 

There are two' kinds of batters, or mixtures which can be 
stirred with a spoon. 

A pour batter contains one part of flour to one part of 
liquid. 

A drop batter contaips two parts of flour to one part of 
liquid. 

There are two kinds of doughs, or mixtures which can be 
rolled on a board or kneaded. 

A soft dough contains three parts of Sour to one part of 
liquid. 

A stiff dough contains four parts of flour to one part of 
liquid. 

These doughs and batters may be lightened by the expan- 
sion of water by heat; the expansion of air incorporated by the 
addition of beaten eggs; or by the generation of a gas. Gas is 
generated by the use of soda with heat and moisture; of soda 
with the acid of sour milk, molasses or cream of tartar; and 
by the use of baking powder. Yeast may "be used to leaven, 
because during the process of its growth a gas Is liberated. 

The following general proportions are used in leavening 
flov mixtures: when baking powder is used. It requires two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder to one cupful of flour; if eggs 
are used, less baking powder is required; one egg or two egg 
whites- may be substituted for oqe teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 

To neutralize the acid and to produce the required amount 
of gas, the following proportions will be approximately cor- 
rect: one-half teaspoonful of soda to one cupful of sour milk; 



9S PRACTICAL COOKERY 

one-half teaspoonful of soda to one cupful of molasses; or oae 
teaspoonful of soda to two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 
Often a sufficient amount of gas is not produced by the amount 
of soda required to neutralize the acid and baking powder or 
baking powder and egg may be added to leaven the mixture. 

SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES 

1 egg ■ i tspj salt 

i c. milk 4 tsp. olive oil 

i c. flour 

Beat the egg slightly and add the milk; add gradually to 
the sifted flour and salt. When smooth add the olive oil and 
set aside for 1 hour. Fry with timbale irons. A rosette iron 
may be used. If the cases lack in crispness and are thick and 
soft, more milk is needed; when right, the finished cases are 
very thin, delicate and crisp. 

TO USE SWEDISH TIMBALE IRONS 

Put the iron into the kettle with the fat, having the fat 
deep enough to more than covfr the iron. Heat the fat until 
hot enough to fry uncooked mixtures. Drain the iron and dip 
into the batter (held in a cup or small bowl). Hold the iron at 
an angle until the bottom is covered, then straighten and low- 
er to V2 inch from top of iron. Hold straight and lower into 
the fat £fnd hold there until the case is crisp and light brown. 
Take from the fat, remove the case from the iron and turn 
upside down on soft paper to drain. Return iron to batter 
without dipping into the fat unless it needs reheating. If the 
iron is lowered too far into the batter, the case will spread 
over the top of the iron and. be troublesome to remove. If, on 
dipping the iron into the batter, the mixture does not cling to 
it, the iron is not hot enough. If the fat sizzles considerably 
and the case spreads out and drops from the iron, it is too hot. 

POPOVERS 

J c. flour 5 tsp. salt 

1 c. milk 2 tsp. butter 

2 eggs 

Beat the egg thoroughly. Add gradually, while beating, 
the milk, melted butter and the flour with which the salt ha» 



FLOUR MIXTURES 99 

been sifted. Put M teaspoontul of butter into each hot muffin 
tin. Fill tins half full with batter and bake in a hot oven 30 
to 40 minutes. Serve immediately. Half entire-wheat or 
graham flour may be' used for variation. 

WAFFLES 

2 c. nour 2 c. sour milk 

1 tsp. soda 2 egg yolks 

J tsp. salt Z egg whites 

2 tbsp. shortening 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add the milk gradually, 
the yolks of the eggs well beaten, the shortening melted, and 
the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Cook on a hot, well oiled 
waffle iron. A waffle iron should fit closely on the range, be 
well heated on one side, turned, heated on the o'ther side and 
thoroughly oiled before the iron is filled. In filling, put 2 
tablespoonfuls of the mixture in each compartment near the 
center of the iron, cover, and the mixture will spread to just 
fin the iron. If sufficiently heated, it should be turned almost 
as soon as it is filled and covered. Two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder and 2 cupfuls of sweet milk may be substituted for the 
soda and sour milk. This recipe will make 6 waffles. 

SOVR MII.K GBIDDI.E CAKES 

1 c. flour 1 c. sour milk 

J tsp. salt i tsp. soda 

1 egg 1 tbsp. butter 

Mix and sift flour, salt and soda; add sour milk and egg 
well beaten. Drop by spoonfuls on an oiled, hot griddle; cook 
on one side. When puffed, full of bubbles and cooked on 
edges, turn and cook other side. Serve at once. 

One cupful, of sweet milk and 1 teaspoonfuV of baking 
powder may be substituted for the sour milk and soda. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

j cake compressed yeast 2 qts. water 

1 tsp. salt Buckwheat flour 

1 tsp. melted butter !, tsp. baking soda 
1 tbsp. molasses 

Dissolve the yeast in % cupful of lukewarm water, pouring 



100 PRACTICAL COOKERY' 

it Into the pitcher with 2 quarts of water the same temperature. 
Make a smooth pour batter with bucliwheat flour. Add the 
salt. Beat well and let stand over night; In the morning take 
out a pint of the mixture and set aside. Put into the pitchei- 
the remaining ingredients. Mix lightly all together and bake 
on a hot griddle. 

If there is any batter left after baking, add to it the pint 
which has been set aside and, the night before using^ pour in 
a pint of lukewarm water, add salt and sufficient flour to make 
the batter as previously directed and proceed as before, except 
now add % teaspoonful of baking soda dissolved in a little 
water and stirred in carefully just before baking. Always 
save out some batter the first thing in the morning for the 
next baking. If some white flour is desired, simply lessen the 
quantity of buckwheat. Making the batter in this way may 
be continued for a week, if kept in a cool place, then if any is 
left it should be thrown out and a fresh start made. 

BOSTOiV BROWN HRRAU 

1 c. corn. meal 3 c. molasses 

1 c. flour 1 tsp. salt 

2 c. sour milk Ij tsp. soda 
1 c. graham flour 

Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Mix the sour milk 
and molasses. Stir in the di'y ingredients, beating thoroughly. 
Turn into well oiled mold. Cover tightly and steam 2 to 3 
hours, depending on size of mold. Remove cover and dry in 
oven 15 minutes. Take from can and slice with string. 

SOUTHERN BATTKR BREAD 

i c. corn meal 1 egg 

J tsp. salt 1* c. milk 

Spk. pepper 

Sift the dry ingredients. Add the milk and cook about 15 
minutes in double boiler. Add egg. Put in oiled baking dish, 
set in a pan of hot water and bake in a moderate oven 45 
minutes. Serve with a spoon, adding butter, salt and pepper. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 101 

MUFPINS 

i >;. butter 1 egg 

i c. sugar 1 c. milk 

} tsp. salt 2 c. flour 

3 tsp. baking powder 

Cream the butter, add the sugar' abd the well beaten egfc. 
Sift the baking powder with the flour and add to the first mix- 
tare, alternating with 'the milk. Bake in oiled muffin tins 26 
minutes. One half cupful of finely cut dates or raisins, or cur- 
rants, may be added if desired. The recipe yields 8 muffins. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

Make as muffins, using equal parts of graham or whole- 
wheat flour and white flour. 

CORN MEAIi MUFFINS 

Make as muffins, using % corn meal and % flour. 

SALI-Y tUNN 

2 0. flour i c. shortening 

i tsp. salt 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten separately 1 <;. milk 

Sift the flour, the baking powder and the salt together. 
Beat the yolks, add the milk and the shortening. Mix with the 
flour mixture. Add the whites, beaten stiff. Bake in a loaf 
and serve hot. 

CORN BRBAD 

1 c. corn meal 1 c. sour milk 

1 c. flour 1 tbsp. butter 

i c. sugar 1 egg 

i tsp. salt h tsp. soda 

Sift soda with flour and mix dry ingredients. Beat egg 
well. Melt butter and add to egg. Mix sour milk and egg, 
beat this into dry ingredients. Pour mixture into oiled tin and 
bake in hot oven about 25 minutes. 

BRAN BRBAD 

1 c. bran 1 egg 

3 tbsp. molasses 1 tsp. salt 

3 tsp. baking powder Flour to make h. drop 

1 c. milk flatter " 



102 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Sift baking powder, salt and flour together. Beat the 
egg, add the molasses, mix well. Add milk, bran and flour 
alternately, beating well after each addition. Turn into well 
oiled tin iand bake from 30 to 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 

NUT BREAD ^ 

2 eegB 2 u. graham flour (un- 

li c. sugar sifted) 

2 »;. sweet milk 1 tbsp. salt 

2 c. white flour 4 tbsp. balcingr powder 

1 i;. English walnuts 

Beat eggs thoroughly, add sugar and beat. Add dry in- 
gredients and milk alternately. Pour in two oiled bread pans 
and let stand 25 minutes before baking. Bake 1 hour tn 
moderate oven. 

GINGBRBREAO 

1 c. shortening 1} i;. flour 

I c. brown sugar i tsp. soda 

1 egg 2 tsp. ginger 

i c. molasses 1 tsp. cinnamon 

i c. boiling water } tsp. salt 

Sift flour, spice, salt and soda together. Mix shortening 
and sugar, add egg and molasses. Add dry ingredients and 
liquid alternately. Bake in a moderate oven 30 minutes. To 
darken color add Vi teaspoonful of cocoa. 

BAKED BROWN BREAD 

2 c. sour milk 1 c. flour 

J c. mild molasses or 2 c. graham flour 

2 tbsp. molasses, if 1 tsp. salt 

strong, and i c. sugar li tsp. soda 

1 tbsp. melted lard 

Mix dry Ingredients thoroughly. Mix sour milk, lard and 
molasses. Stir in the dry ingredients, beating thoroughly. 
Turn into an oiled pan and bake 1 hour in a moderate oven. 

BAKIIVG POWDER BISCUITS 

2 c. flour Z tbsp. shortening 

4 tsp. baking powder 3 to 1 c. milk, or milk 

1 tsp. salt and water 

Sift the dry ingredients twice. Cut in the shortening, the* 



FLOUR MIXTURES 103 

add gradually the milk, mixing with a knife. The dough should 
be as soft as can be handled without sticking. Turn onto a 
lightly floured board, roll lightly % inch thick and cut quick- 
ly with a floured cutter Bake in a hot oven 121to 15 minutes. 

DROrPED BISCUITS 

Add to the ingredients for biscuits enough more milk to 
make a thick drop batter (about 2 tablespoonfuls. ) Mix as 
directed fdr biscuits and place by spoonfuls, Vz inch apart, in 
a floured tin. The mixture should not be soft enough to spread 
Bake in a hot oven 10 to 12 minutes 

DUMPLINGS FOR STEWS 

Follow the directions for dropped biscuits. An egg may 
added, if desired, and water used instead of milk. When the 
stew is cooked remove the meat from the kettle and place a 
rack in the bottom of the kettle, allowing the liquid to come up 
to the top of the rack. Drop the dough by spoonfuls on the 
rack, cover tightly and boil 12 minutes without lifting the 
cover. These dumplings may also be cooked in a steamer or 
dropped by spoonfuls upon a roast and baked in the oven 
When used with a roast, they are sometimes made more like 
biscuit dough and cut in the same way 

GRAHAM BREAD 

2 c. sour milk 1 c. white flour 

1 u. molasses IJ tsp. soda 

4 c. graham flour 3 t.sp salt 

1 tsp. baking powder 

Sift soda, baking powder, salt and white flour Together 
and mix with sour milk and molasses. Add graham flour 
gradually, beating thoroughly. Pour mixture into two well 
oiled bread tins and bake 1 hour in a moderate oven. 



^04 PRACTICAL COOKER"? 



BREAD 

The art of bread making has developed until the light, 
spongy loaf of the housekeeper of today is scarcely compar- 
able to the loaf made from the coarsely ground meal, mixed 
with water and baked in the ashes, that satisfied our ancestors. 

The ideal loaf of today may be described from the score- 
card used for judging contest bread, page 105. 

The color of the crust should be a golden brown, evenly 
colored on top, sides and bottom. The surface should, be 
smooth, without cracks on the sides or creases in the bottom. 
The loaf should be symmetrical, with straight edges and a 
slightly rounded top. 

When the loaf is freshly cut it should show thoroughness 
of baking. This is tested by pressing the freshly cut loaf until 
crust touches crust. When released it should spring back into 
shape without injury to the crumb. The crumb should be 
creamy white and should have a feathery appearance, with 
small, uniform openings. There should be an absence of all 
acidity, with a fresh, nutty flavor. 

This ideal loaf can only be obtained with good materials 
and careful manipulation. The flour should be a creamy white 
and must contain a good quality of gluten. It should be free 
from contamination by bacteria or molds. The yeast should 
contain a large number of healthy yeast plants and should not 
contain any lactic acid bacteria. The liquid should be sterilized 
to free it from organisms. The shortening should be fresh and 
of good flavor 

In the manipulation of the dough extreme cleanliness i§ 
necessary. The dough should be a smooth, uniform, well 
aerated mixture, which may be obtained by thorough beating 
and light, firm kneading. It should be kept at the temperature 
most favorable to the growth of the yeast plant (77 "-95° F, ; 
25°-35'' C.) until the gas produced by the yeast in its growth 
has leavened the mixture to double its bulk. Kneading down 
occasionally will, by stretching the gluten, increase the feath- 
ery appearance of the crumb. 



BREAD 



105 



The loaf should be carefully shaped to fit an individual 
loaf tin (9%x4>/fex3'/4 ), and carefully pressed into the corners 
of the tin to insure straight edges. Before baking it should 
rise to double its bulk. The oven should be hot at first, until 
the crust is set,, which should take the first 15 minutes. Dur- 
ing this time the loaf should be turned frequently to insure 
even heat and even rising. At the end of this time the temper- 
ature should be gradually diminished to prevent too thick and 
too brown a crust before the baking is accomplished. This will 
take 50 to 6t) minutes to cook the starch and destroy the yeast 
in the center of the loaf. 

On taking from the oven the bread should be cooled in 



SCORE CARD FOR BREAD 

(U. S. DeiJartmeni of Atrricult.ure) 



General appearance 

Shape 

SmoothBess of crust 

Depth and evennes.s of color 

Lightness 



Crust 

Thickness 

Quality (crispness and plasticity) 



Crumb 

Color 

Te.'iture (size and uniformity of 

cells, thinness of cell v.all) 

Elasticity (softness and springi- 
ness) 



Flavor (taste and odor). 



Tot A I- 



15 

10 
10 

40 



100 



106 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

currents, of air and then put away, without wrappinfr. in a 
closed tin or earthen jar. 

YEAST 

4 medium-sized raw J c. sugar 

potatoes', pared 1 tbsp. salt 

1 qt. boiling water 1 cake dry yeast 

Grate the potatoes into the rapidly boiling water. BoO 
until the starch is cooked, stirring constantly. Stir in tbe 
sugar and salt while it is hot, cool to lukewarm, then add the 
yeast cake, which has been broken up and soaked in a little 
warm water. Put into a jar. Allow to ferment 24 hours, thea 
set In a cool, dark place. This will keep about 2 weeks and 
the last cupful may be used in place of a dry yeast cake in 
making a new. supply. 

WHITE BREAD (STRAIGHT DOUGH METHOD) 

1 0. milk, water, or wliey J c. potato yeast or 

1 tbsp. sugar 1 yeast cake 

1 tbsp. shortening 3i to 4-c. flour 
1 tsp, salt 

Measure the salt, the sugar and the shortening into a 
mixing bowl. Add the scalded liquid and cool the mixture to 
lukewarm, stirring occasionally. Shake the yeast, measure 
and add it to the milk mixture. (If dry or compressed yeaat 
is used, soften it in lukewarm boiled water, using % cupful t» 
% cake of yeast.) Add the flour gradually, beating thoroughly 
after each addition, until the dough can be lifted in a mass oa 
the spoon, leaving the bowl free from dough. Turn onto a 
floured board and knead lightly, keeping a small amount ot 
flour on the board until the loaf is smooth, elastic to the toncb 
and stiff enough so that it will not stick to a clean bo^d in 
kneading. Put into a clean bowl, cover tightly (to prevent the 
formation of a crust) and let rise until double its bulk. Knead 
on an unfloured board just enough to distribute the gas bubbles 
thoroughly. Shape into a loaf and place in an oiled tin, pres- 
sing into the corners. Let rise again until double its bulk, and 
bake in a hot oven 50 to 60 minutes. The heat may be moder- 



BREAD 107 

ated after the first half of the baking Remove the loaf from 
the tin and cool on a wire rack. 

In using some flours an extra kneading and rising im- 
proves the quality of the bread. 

WHITE UREAD (SPONGE METHOD) 

Use the same ingredients as for the quick method. Add 
the scalded liquid to the sugar, the salt and the shortening in 
the mixing bowl, cool to lukewarm and add the yeast. Beat in 
sufficient flour to make a drop batter, then cover and let rise 
8 or 10 hours, or over night. In the morning, add the re- 
mainder of the flour, knead, as in the other method, and allow 
to rise until double its bulk. Complete according to directions 
for quick method. If a large amount of shortening is to be 
used, add it just before mixing into a dough. 

GRAHAM OR ENTIRE-WHEAT BREAD 

Use the same ingredients as for the white bread, substitut- 
ing %, or more, graham or entire-wheat flour 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

J c. milk 3 to I cake compressed 
1 thsp. sugar yeast 

1 tbsp. butter 1 tbsp. lukewarm water 

5 tsp. salt IJ to 2 c. flour 

Measure the sugar, butter and salt into a mixing bowl. 
Add the scalded milk and cool to lukewarm, stirring occa- 
sionally. Soften the yeast in the lukewarm water and add it 
to the milk mixture. Add the flour gradually, beating thor- 
oughly, until no more can be worked in with a spoon. Cover 
tightly and let rise until 3 times its bulk. Turn onto a 
lightly floured board, knead slightly and roll % inch thick. 
Cut with a round or oval floured cutter. Crease in the middle 
with a floured knife handle, rub Vi with melted butter and 
fold over. Place 1 inch apart in an oiled tin and let rise until 
double in size. Bake in a hot oven 15 to 20 minutes. 

TO GLAZE PARKER HOUSE ROLLS OR OTHER FANCY BREAD 
Brush with melted butter, or milk and sugar ( 1 table- 
spoonful of sugar to ^ cupful of milk) before baking. 



lOS PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Brush with egg, slightly beaten and diluted with 1 table- 
spoonful of water or milk, when taken from oven, and return 
for a few minutes to glaze the top. The egg yolk or the egg 
white, diluted with water or milk, may be used instead of the 
whole egg, if desired. 

When baked and nearly cool, brush over with confection- 
er's sugar, moistened with boiling water and flavored. 

CINNAMON ROLLS 

Roll Parker House roll mixture y-z inch thick. Spread with 
melted butter and sprinkle liberally with mixture of 5 parts 
sugar to 1 part ground cinnamon. Roll as a jelly roll. Cut in 
%-inch slices. Put closely into buttered tin, cut side up. Let 
rise and bake m a moderate oven 35 minutes 

SWEDISH TEA RINGS 

Use the recipe for Parker House rolls, with the addition 
of Vz egg. When light, put onto an unfloured board and roll 
as thinly as possible in rectangular shape. Spread with melted 
butter and sprinkle with chopped, blanched almonds or cin- 
namon. Roll like a jelly roll, cut a small piece from each end 
and join the ends to form a ring. Place on a buttered bakinj? 
sheet and make cuts 1 inch apart across the roll with scissors, 
extending almost to the inside. Turn each piece to have the 
cut side up. Let rise and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

SALAD OR Dl.WER ROLLS- 

Use the .same ingredients as for Parker House rolls. Shape 
in small biscuits, place in rows on a floured board, cover with 
a clotli and let rise until very light. Flour the handle of a 
wooden spoon and make a deep crease in the middle of each 
roll, take up and press the edges together. Place closely in 
a buttered tin, cover, let rise and bake 12 to 15 minutes in a 
hot oven. From this same mixture, crescents, braids, twists, 
bowknots, clover leaves or shamrock, and other fancy shapes 
may be made. 

Crescents. — When the dough is light, roll in a sheet "i^s 
inch thick and cut in strips about 4 inches wide; cut these in 



BREAD 109 

sharp pointed triangles, then, commencing at the base, roll 
them up, bringing the ends toward each other, Iceeping the 
point in the middle of the roll to give the shape of a crescent. 
Place them on baking tins some distance apart. When light, 
bake 15 to 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Braids. — When the dough is light, roll in a sheet Vt inch 
thick, cut in strips % inch wide, then braid them in 3 or 4 
strands, having the braids wider in the center than at the ends. 
Let rise and bake. 

Clover Leaves or Shamrocks. — Oil a muffin tin. Take 
small bits of dough, knead until smooth, shape in balls and 
fit 3 into each tin. Let rise and bake. 

BRRAD STICKS 

Use the same ingredients as for Parker House rolls, vvith 
the addition of % egg white. When ready to shape, form in 
small balls, then roll on an unfloured board with the hands 
until strips are formed uniform in size and the shape of a 
thick lead pencil. Place on a baking sheet some distance 
apart or in a tin designed for the purpose. When light, bake 
in a hot oven, reducing the heat that the sticks may be crisp 
and dry. 

For Salad Sticks. — Additional salt may be added to the 
dough and the sticks sprinkled with salt before baking. 

ZWIEBACH 

Use the recipe for Parker House rolls, with the additioa 
of 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 
egg. Scald the milk and when lukewarm add the yeast. As 
soon as the yeast is dissolved, add the salt and 1/2 cupful of 
flour. Cover and let rise until light, then add the sugar, the 
butter and the unbeaten eggs, with flour enough to handle. 
Knead, shape and place in tin. Let rise and bake in a hot 
oven about 30 to 40 minutes. When cold, cut in slices about 
Mi incb thick and dry in a slow oven until delicately browned. 



1 1 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

COFPEB BRBAD 1 

4 tbsp. butter 
1 yeast cake j c. sugar 

1 c. milk 1 eg-g 

1 c. liquid conee j c. currants 

Flour Nutmeg 

Cinnamon 

Make a drop batter of the yeast, milk, coSee and flour. 
Let rise, then add all the other ingredients, knead, shape in a 
loaf. let rise and bake in a moderate oven. 

coffee: bread ii 

1 c. scalded milk \ *®P- „1^15_,, 

1 c. strong coffee ni^r,^^n^ 

i c. sugar Cinnamon 

I c buttpr Nutmeg 

1 egg 1 yeast cake (compressed) 

Flour 

Scald milk and add to coSee. When lukewarm, add yeast, 
salt and flour enough to make a drop batter. Let rise, thea 
add sugar, butter, egg, cinnamon, nutmeg and currants, and 
enough flour to make a soft dough. Put into an oiled tin. Let 
rise and bake in a hot oven. 

NOT BREAD 

i cake compressed yeast 1 u. chopped nut meats 

} c. lukewarm water 1 c. entire-Wheat flour 

1 c. scalded milk White flour as needed for 

1 tbsp. shortening soft dough 

2 tbsp. molasses 1 tap. salt 

Add shortening and molasses to the scalded milk. Cool. 
When lukewarm, add nut meats, yeast and flour. Beat thor- 
oughly. Put into an oiled tin. Let rise and bake in a moder- 
ate oven 40 minutes. 

POTATO BISCl'ITS 

1 c. milk 3 tbsp. lard 

} c sugar } c. mashed potato 

1 egg i cake of compressed yeast 

5 tsp. salt About 3 c. flour 

Scald the milk and pour it over the sugar and the lard. 
Put the potatoes into a bowl with a little flour. Add the scald- 



BREAD 111 

(ed milk slowly, making a thin, smooth paste. Add the yolks of 
the eggs and beat thoroughly, then add the well beaten whites, 

'and last the yeast cake softened in V4 cupful of warm water 
Set in a warm place until light, add the remaining flour. Mix 
into a soft, smooth dough and let rise again. Roll Vi inch 

jthick, cut and lay one biscuit on top of the other. Let rise 
until light and bake in a hot oven about 15 minutes. 

RAISBD DOUGHNUTS . 

S c. Parker Hcmse roll 1 egg 

mixture Cinnamon 

1 tbsp. butter Xutmeg 

} c. sugar 

Add all ingredients to Parker House roll mixture and mix 
thoroughly. Let rise until double in bulk, roll in thin sheet 
and cut in rings. Let rise, fry and drain. 

USES FOR ST.VLK BRK.4.D 

All pieces of bread should be saved and utilized. Keep 
pieces of stale bread by themselves in a jar or covered bowl. 
Stale bread, it heated in a closely covered pan, becomes some- 
what like fresh bread. Large pieces are best for toast, which 
may be made and used In a variety of ways. Smaller pieces 
may be used for bread crumbs. 

liKE.VD CRUMnS 

Prepare by drying stale bread, crushing and sifting. The 
erushing may be done by grinding m a food cutter or rolling 
.on a bread board. The sifting may be done with a pur#e 
Btrainer. The sifted crumbs may be used for preparing scal- 
loped dishes, breading fried food or for thickening 

BUTTERED CRUMBS 

6 tbsp st.ile soft crumbs 2 tbsp butter 

Malt butter and stir in crumbs 

CROUTONS 

1 slice of bread Vi inch 1 tsp butter 

thick 

Trim crusts from bread Spread with butter Cut in 



112 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Strips % inch wide. Cut strips in pieces, terming Vi-inch 
cubes. Brown in oven. 

nOCK ALMONDS 

Prepare slice ol bread as for croutons. Cut in sliape of 
almonds and brown in oven. 

CRISI' CRACKERS 

Spread cracliers thinly with butter, allowing one-fourth 
teaspoon butter to each cracker; put into pan and bake until 
delicately browned. 

IMl'KHIAL STICKS IN RL\US 

Cut stale bread in %-inch slices, remove the crusts, spread 
thinly with butter, and cut the slices in 14 -inch strips and 
rings. Put into a tin and bake until delicately browned. Serve 
with soups, arranging 3 sticks in each ring. 

CRVST.A.DES 

Cut a loaf of bread in slices 2 inches thick. Remove the 
crusts and cut the slices in two, diagonally or crosswise. Cut 
out the inside portion carefully with a small pointed knife, 
.leaving the sides and the bottom % inch thick. Fry; or butter 
the top and sides, inside and out, place on a tin and brown 
delicately in the oven. (The butter should be creamed before 
spreading.) One loaf cf bread will make S medium-sized or 6 
large crustades. These are used as cases in which to serve 
creamed vegetables, fish or meats. These should be dipped 
quickly in boiling salted water before filling. 

DRY TOAST 

Cut stale bread in %- to %-inch slices. The crust may 
be removed if desired. Put the slices in a wire toaster and 
place over a clear fire to dry, holding some distance from the 
eoals. Turu and dry the other side. Hold nearer the coals 
and color a golden brown on each side. Bread may be dried 



BREAD 113 



MILK TOAST 



2 c. white sauce for cream 6 slices dry toast 

soups 

Dip the slices of toast separately into the sauce, place on a 

serving dish and pour the remaining sauce over all. The flour 

may be omitted and the scalded milk to which the butter and 

the salt have been added poured over the dry toast. In either 

ease, cream may be substituted for the milk and the butter 

omitted. 

FRENCH TOAST 

2 eggrs 6 slices bread 

1 c. milk i tsp. salt 

Beat the eggs slightly, add the milk and the salt. Dip the 
bread in and out of the mixture auioklv. Saut6. 



114 PRACnCAX, COOKERY 



CAKES 

There are two general classes of cakes, those which cafn.- 
tain butter, or butter substitutes, and those which are made 
without fat. 

In cake making, the best ingredients, accurately meas- 
ured, are essential. Esgs must be fresh, butter sweet, sugar 
fine grained, and flour with a large starch content. Eggs and 
butter that are not fresh give objoctionable flavors; coarse 
grained sugar gives a coarse texturo J.:id a hard crust; and 
flour with a large gluten content make3 a less tender cake. 

GENERAL. RULES FOR MIXING 

For cakes with butter, measure the ingredients, sifting the 
flour before measuring. Sift the leavening agent and the 
spices, if used, in the flour Sepai-ate the white from the 
yolks of the eggs unless the reoipo specifically directs other- 
wise. Cream the butter in a to'nl. using a. wooden spoon, add 
the sugar gradually and mix thoroughly, partly dissolving the 
sugar. Add the beaten yolks of the eggs to the butter and 
sugar mixture. Add the llqaid and the flour alternately, fold 
in the beaten whites of the eggs and add flavoring. If nuts 
or fruit arc used, they should be iloured to prevent settling 
to the bottom and r.dded before the ess whites. 

For cakes without butter, ceparate the whites from the 
yolks of the c.2;gc. Beat the yolks until thick and lemon 
colored and add the sugar gradually Add the flavoring 
and the beaten whites, and lastly add the fioviT, cutting or 
folding it into the mixture. 

TO OIL. AND FILL. TINS 

Cake tins should be oiled on both bottom and sides with 
softened sweet fat. For fruit cakes, pound cakes or other 
loaf cakes, it is well to line the tin with oiled paper. Fill the 
tins about two thirds full of the cake mixture, spreading 
evenly toward the corners and edges. 

TO BAKE 

Loaf cakes require an oven hot enough to turn a little 



CAKES 116 

ftour light brown in four minutes, or a moderate oven. Layer 
or small cakes should be baked in an oven that is a little hot- 
ter, while sponge or angel cakes require an oven that is not so 
hot, especially during the first part of the baking process. 

The time of the baking may be divided into quarters. 
During the first quarter, the cake should begin to rise; second 
quarter, continue rising and begin to brown; third quarter, 
continue browning; and fourth quarter, finish baking and 
shrink from the tin. It may be moved during the first quarter 
or during the last quarter; never during the second or third 
quarters. Loaf cakes require from 45 to 60 minutes. Layer 
eakes require from 20 to 30 minutes. 

STANDARDIZATION QP OVEIN TEMPERATURES 
(MAT B. VAN ARSDALE, TEACHERS COLLEGB) 

250°-350° F. 



Slow 



Moderate 



Hot or S 

Quick I 



Very Hot 



1210-177'' 


C. 


350°-400° 
177°-204"' 


F. 
C. 


400''-450° 
204°-232° 


F. 
C. 


450°-550° 
232''-288° 


F. 
C. 



( 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 

When done, the cake will spring back lightly when touched 
with the finger and will shrink from the edge of the tin. 
Another test is to insert a toothpick into the center and if it 
comes out clean the cake is done. 

A cake should be baked alone in an oven and should be 
elosely watched. If the oven door is carefully opened and 
closed, the cake will hot fall. Place the cake as near the center 
of the oven as possible. If the oven is too slow, the cake often 
rises too much, becoming coarse grained. Cracking on the top 
may be caused by putting the cake in too hot an oven at first 
or by having too stiff a rnixture or too deep a pan. 

TO REMOVE FROM TINS 

Remove the cake from the tin, as soon as it is taken from 
tbe oven, by inverting the tin on a wire cake cooler.^ 



11« PRACTICAL COOKERY 

STANDARD OR PLAIN CAKE 

i c. butter 2 eggs 

1 e. sugar 2 c. flour 

1 c. milk 4 tsp. baking powder 

Spk. salt Vanilla 

Mix as butter cake. Bake in layers or in a loaf. 

WHITB cake: 

i c. butter 5 egg whites 

IJ c. sugar 2S c. pastry flour 

1 c. milk or water 4 tsp. baking powder 

Spk. salt 1 tsp. vanilla 

Mix as a butter cake. Bake in layers or In a loaf 

WHITE ALMOND CAKE 

i c. butter J c. milk 

1 c. sugar 15 c. flour 

4 egg whites 2 tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. almond flavoring 

Mix as a butter cake. Bake in layers or in a loaf. 

YELLOW CAKE 

i c. butter h c. milk 

1 c. sugar 1% c. flour 

2 eggs 2J tsp. baking powder 
Spk. salt 1 tsp. vanilla 

Mix as a butter cake. Bake in layers or in a loaf. 

GOLD CAKE 

I c butter 2i c. flour 

1} c. sugar i c. milk 

4 egg yolks 5 tsp. mace 

1 whole egg 2 tsp. baking powder 

Mix as a butter cake. Bake in a loaf. 

CARAMEL OR BURNT-SUGAR CAKE 

1 c. susar 1 tbsp. caramelized sugar 

} c. butter IJ c. flour 

1 egg 15 tsp. baking powder 

i c. water i tsp. vanilla 

Dissolve caramelized sugar in the water and mix as a 
butter cake. Bake in a loaf and ice with burnt-sugar icing. 



CAKES 117 

chocolate: cakb 

i c. butter Ij i:. flour 

1 c. sugar i tsp. cinnamon 

2 eees i tsp. vanilla 

i c. milk 1 sq. chocolate 

2 tsp. baking powder 

Mix as a butter cake. Melt chocolate over hot water and 
a(M to creamed butter and sugar. Bake in a loaf or in layers. 

BOSTON fudge: cake: 

5 c. butter I c. sour milk 

2 c. brown sugar J c. water 

2 oz. chocolate 2i c. flour 

2 eggs 1 tsp. soda 

Mix as chocolate cake and bake in layers. Put browH 
sugar filling between and chocolate icing on top and sides. 

ITALIAN cake: 

M u. butter J tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar 13 c. flour 

2 eggs i p. chopped raisins 

1 c. cold, strong coffee i c. chopj;>ed walnuts 
} tsp. vanilla 13 tsp. baking powder 

Mix as a butter cake. Bake in a loaf. Ice with mocha 
icing. 

SPICE cake: I 

} c. butter s tsp. soda 

9 c. brown sugar 5 tsp. cinnamon 

2 yolks or 1 egg } tsp. cloves 

i c. sour milk J tsp. allspice 

i c. raisins, chopped 1| c. flour 

J o. currants 

Mix as a butter cake. Bake in a loaf. 
spice: cake: ii 

1 c. brown sagar 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 t. raisins 1 tsp. nutmeg 

1 c. sour cream or 3 tsp. cloves 

1 c. sour milk and 4 tbap. 1 tsp. soda 

melted butter 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 egg 1 tsp. salt 

2 c. flour Citron 



llg PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Sift dry ingredients together. Add other ingredients. 
Beat well and balie 40 minutes in a moderate oven. 

COFFEE CAKE 

1 c. butter 1 tsp. allspice 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. cloves 
5 egrgs 3i c. flour 

1 c. black coffee 1 lb. raisins 

1 tsp. soda 1 lb. currants 

1 tsp. cinnamon 

Mix as a butter cake. Balie in two loaves. 

WHITE CUP CAKES 

} c. butter I c. milk 

S c. sugar 1% c. flour 

a egg whites 2 tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. vanilla 

Mix as a butter cake. Bake in muffin tins. Makes 16 
•mall cakes. 

CURRANT CUP CAKES 

} c. butter 3 tsp. baking powder 

J c. light brown sugar IJ c. flour 

1 egg i c. currants 
i c. milk 

l/jix as a butter cake. Bake in mufiin tins. 

FRUIT CAKE 

1 lb butter 1 tsp. nutmeg 

1 lb. sugar 1 tsp. allspice 

1 lb. flour I tsp. cloves 

10 eggs 1 tsp. cinnamon 

U nas. currants i tsp. mace 

1} lbs raisins 1 orange, rind and Juice 

3 lb citron 1 lemon, rind and Juice 

Cream the butter; add sugar and cream together; ad-d 
beaten eggs. Sift all dry ingredients together and add to 
butter mixture. Beat thoroughly. Wash and dry currants 
and raisins. Cut raisins and citron in small pieces, then add 
them to batter. Lastly, add orange and lemon juice and rind. 
Pour into oiled cake tin and steam 2 Vi or 3 hours. Then 'bake 
20 or 30 minutes. Remove from tin when cool and wrap in 
paraffin paper. Keep in stone crock. 



CAKES 1 1 9 



JAM CAKE 



1 c. sugar 1 tsp bsiklnir powder 

1 c. butter 1 c. Jam or jelly 

2 c. flour (more with jelly) i tsp. nutmeg 

3 eggs i tsp. cinnamon 
% c. sour milk i tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. soda i tsp. allspice 

Cream sugar and butter. Add 1 egg at a time, then add 
the other ingredients and stir well. If apple sauce is used in- 
stead of jam, use 1 % teaspoonfuls of soda. 

SPONGES CAKE I 

3 eggs S c. flour 

i c. sugar I tsp. flavoring 

4 tsp. water 

Mix and balie as a cake without butter. 

sponge: cake: ii 

4 eggs % 0. boiling water 

1 c. granulated sugar 1 tsp. baking powder 
Rind of 1 lemon Spk. salt 

2 c. flour 

Beat Whites dry and fold in beaten yolks. Mix sugar, flour 
and baking powder, adding to the first mixture alternately 
with the water and extract. Bake in an oiled tin in a moder- 
ate oven until firm in the center. 

white: sponge: cake: or ange:l food 

1 V. egg whites (8 to 10) I tsp. cream of tartar 

1 c. sugar i tsp. vanilla 

I c. flour Spk. salt 

Beat egg whites to a froth, then add cream of tartar and 
continue beating until stiff. Sift sugar and flour each 4 times 
Beat in sugar gradually. Fold In flour, salt and vanilla. Bake 
in clean tin in a slow oven about 50 minutes. 

te:a cake: 

t c sugar 3 c. flour 

i c. butter 3 tsp. baking powder 

1 large egg (rounding) 

I c. Bweet milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

,1 pinch of soda In floi»r 



] 20 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Mix as a butter cake. Spread melted butter over the top 
and sprinkle sugar and cinnamon to taste. Bake in quick oven 
for 10 minutes, then reduce heat and finish baking. Should be 
about 1 'A inches thick when done. 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES 121 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES 

COOKIES 

i e. butter 2 eggs 

I c. sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

} c. milk Flour to make a soft dough 

} tsp. flavoring 

Mix as a butter cake, sifting the baking powder with the 
first half cupful of flour added. Roll very thin, cut, place on 
buttered baking sheet and bake in hot oven. Makes 26 cookies 
2''x3". 

CREAM COOKIES 



ly 



1 

2 
4 
1 


c. butter 

c. sugar 

eggs 

c. sour cream 




1 tsp. 
1 tsp. 
J tsp. 
Flour 


soda 
nutmeg 
vanilla 
to make a 


soft dough 


Mix as a butter cake. 


Roll, 


cut and bake in a 


moderate- 


hot 


oven. 












JEI.1,Y JUMBLES 






i 

1 
1 
1 


c. butter 
c. sugax 
egg 
tsp. soda 




i c. sour milk 
3 tsp. salt 
Flour 
Currant jelly 




Mix as a butter cake. 


Roll 


and cut, v 


ising a round cutter. 



On the centers of half of the pieces put currant jelly. Using a 
thimble, make three small openings in remaining pieces and 
put pieces together. Press edges slightly and bake in a rath- 
er hot oven, that jumbles may keep in good shape. 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

h c molasses i tsp. soda 

} c. sugar i tsp. salt 

U tbsp. butter i tsp. cloves 

IJ tbsp. lard i tsp. cinnamon 

1 tbsp. milk i tst). nutmeg 

2 c. flour 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add melted shortening and 
milk. Sift the dry ingredients together and stir into the first 
mixtnre. Roll, cut and bake in a moderate oven. Yields 4 
dozen small cookies. 



122 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

RUSSIAN ROCKS 

i c. fat 1 tap. soda 

1 c. brown sugar i tsp. each of nutmeg 

i c. molasses cinnamon, and allspice 

1 egg i c. chopped jaisins 

1 c. sour milk 8 c. chopped nuts 

Flour to make a very 
thick drop batter 

Mix £3 for cake adding floured raisins and nuts at the 

last. Drop by spoonfuls on oiled tins. Bake in moderate oven. 

OATMEAI. COOKIES- 

S c. rolled oats 5 tbsp. milk 

8 c. flour 1 tsp. cinnamon 

i c. sugar 1 c. raisins 

2 tsp. soda 1 c. nuts 

2 eggs 1 c. butter, melted 

Dissolve soda In milk. Beat eggs separately, adding yolks 
to milk. Mix flour, oatmeal and sugar. Drop by teaspoon- 
tuls, or roll in sm^ll balls, and place far apart In tin. Bake ki 
a moderate even. Yields six dozen cookies. 

PE^ANUT COOKIES 



1 tbsp, butter 


) tsp. salt 


4 tbsp. sugar 


i c. flour 


1 egg 


2 tbsp. milk 


1 tsp. baking powder 


i c. finely chopped 


1 tsp. lemon juice 


peanuts 


Mix as a butter cake. 


Add peanuts and lemon juice and 



mix well. Drop from teaspoon onto oiled baking sheet 2 inches 
apart and place V^ peanut on top of each. Bake in moderate 
oven. Yields one and one half dozen cookies. 

PECAN NUT WAFERS 

2 eggs } tsp. salt 

I c brown sugar J tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. va.nllla 1 c. pecan nuts 

'8 tbsp. flour 

Mix as cake. Add nuts, place In small teaspoon- 
fula on oiled sheet far apart. Bake in hot oven about 4 or 5 
minutes. Remove from sheet immediately while still warm. 
Mey be garnished with whole nut. 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES 123 

HERMITS 

2i tbsp. butter 2 tsp. baking powder 

i c. sugar 1 c. flour 

1 egg 2 tbsp. milk 

i tsp. cinnamon 4 English walnuts 

i tsp. cloves } c. seeded raisins 

Mix as a butter cake Drop from teaspoon onto oiled 
baking sheet 2 inches apart. Bake 20 minutes in moderate 
oven. 

BATH BUNS 

I c. butter 3 tsp. baking powder 

IJ i;. sugar V4 o. candled lemon peel 

8 eggs 3 o. flour 
1 c. milk 

Mix as a butter cake. Put into hot muffin tins. Sprinkle 

top lightly with granulated sugar and bake 20 to 25 minutes. 

Raisins, nuts or citron may be used in place of lemon peel. 



GOLDBIV GIIVGER DROPS 

i c. molasses 1 egg 

J c. brown sugar 1 tsp. cinnamon 

i c. butter } tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. soda 1 tbsp. ginger 

i tsp. salt J c. boiling water 

li c. flour 

Mix as a butter cake. Bake In mulfin tins and ice with 



chocolate or boiledicing. 

LADVFINGISRS 

S egg whites 2 egg yolks 

M c. powdered sugar la c. flour 

J tsp vanilla % tsp. salt 

Beat yolks until thick and lemon colored Beat whites 
until stiff and dry, add sugar to whites gradually, beating 
constantly Combine yolks with whites. Fold in flour and 
salt sifted together, and add vanilla. Shape from spoon in 
strips % ineh wide and 4 inches long, on ungrea&sd paper. 
Bake in a slow oven Take from paper immediately after re- 
moval from oven. 



124 PRACTICAL COOKBRT 



CREAM P1IPFS 



i c. water i c. flour 

) c. butter 2 egres 

Put butter and water Into saucepan and place over heat. 
As soon as boiling point is reached, add flour all at once and 
stir vigorously until the mixture cleaves from the pan. Re- 
move from fire, cool slightly and add unbeaten eggs, one at a 
time, beating thoroughly after each addition. Drop by 
spoonfuls onto oiled sheet 1% inches apart. Shape them as 
round as possible, having them piled slightly in the center. 

Bake until thoroughly set (about 30 minutes) in a hot 
oven, reducing the heat after the pufts have risen well, and con- 
tinue to bake until puffs are dry. 

Make a cut in the top of each with a sharp knife and flU 
with cream filling. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

DATE CAKES 

2i c. oatmeal 1 tsp. soda 

2i c. white flour 1 c. butter 

i c. water 1 c. brown su^ar 

Cream butter and sugar. Add soda and water, then oat- 
meal and flour. Roll thin and spread with date paste. Cover 
with another layer and cut in strips (4 inches tty 1 inch). 
Bake. This recipe makes 50 cakes. 

COCOANUT PDFFS 

3 egg whites beaten stiff 2 c. shredded cocoanut 

2i tsp. cornstarch 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 c. granulated sugar 

Mix cornstarch and sugar. Add to stiffly beaten egg 
whites, beating in gradually. Cook in a double boiler until 
thick around edges. Remove from fire, add cocoanut and 
vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls on an oiled tin. Bake in a slow 
oven until delicate brown. Recipe makes thirty 

MARGVERITES 

1 c. sugar 1 K. nuts or raisins, or 

1 egg white raisins and nuts mtK«d 

i c. water 30 saltinea 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES 125 

Make a boiled Icing and, when nearly stiff, add chopped 
nuts. Spread thickly on saltines. Place on baking sheets In 
slow oven and brown delicately. Shredded cococanut or marsh- 
mallows may be substituted tor all or a part of the nuts. 

A.LMO.VD MACAROONS 

3 eggr whites 3 lb. powdered susar 

I lb. almond paste 

Beat the eggs and mix with the almond paste. When 
smooth add sugar and beat thoroughly. Drop by teaspoonfuls 
onto slightly oiled paper; bake in a moderate oven 15 minutes. 
Take from oven and place the paper for a moment on a damp 
towel; then remove macaroons with a knife. 

COCO.^NUT MACAROONS 

5 egg whites li c. shredded cocoanut 

i lb. powdered sugar 

Add sugar to beaten egg whites; add cocoanut, stirring as 
little as possible. Bake as almond macaroons. 

CORNFLAKC KISSBS 

1 c. sugar 1 c. shredded cocoanut or 

2 c. cornflakes J c. cocoanut and i c. 

1 tsp. vanilla English walnuts 

2 egg whites 

Beat egg whites stiff. Add sugar gradually, beating well. 
Fold in cocoanut, cornflakes and vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls 
on an oiled tin. Bake in a slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS 

1 c. bread crumbs (soft) » tsp. cinnamon 

3J tbsp. chocolate 1 tsp. vanilla 

i c. sugar 1 egg white 

Beat egg white until stiff and dry. Add sugar and con- 
tinue beating. Melt chocolate and mix with bread crumbs, 
cinnamon and vanilla. Fold in egg white and drop from a 
teaspoon onto oiled baking sheet or paper. Bake in very slow 
oven until dry, 20 or 30 minutes. 



126 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

GLUTEN WAFERS 

i c. cream Gluten flour to roll In a 

i tsp. salt thin sheet 

Add salt to cream and mix In flour gradually. Roll, cut in 
squares or oblongs. Prick with a fork as for crackers. Bake 
on an oiled baking sheet until crisp and a delicate brown. 
Graham or wholewheat flour can be substituted. 

DOUGHIVUTS (SWEET MILK) 

1 egg 1 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. melted butter i tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

Flour to make a soft dough 1 c. milk 

Mix as a butter cake. Roll % inch thick and cut. Fry. 

drain and sprinkle with powdered sugar when partly cool. 

Yields 65 small doughnuts. 

DOUGHNUTS (SOUR MILK) 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 
2i tbsp. butter Salt 

2 eggs Cinnaijion or nutmeg 

1 c. sour milk Flour to make a soft dough 

1 tsp. baking powder 

Mix as a butter cake. Roll % inch thick, cut, fry, drain 
and sprinkle with powdered sugar when partly cool. Yields 
56 small doughnuts. 

BOW KNOTS 

2 eggs i tsp. mace 
% c. sugar J tsp. salt 

I tbsp. thick sweet cream 3 tsp. baking powder 

l.tbsp. melted butter Flour to make a stiff dough 

Beat eggs, add sugar, cream and butter. Add flour mixed 
with other ingredients. Roll, cut in strips, and tie in bow 
knots. Fry, drain and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

CRULLERS 

6 eggs 6 tbsp. sugar 

6 tbsp. melted butter Flour to make a stiff doogh 

Beat eggs until very light. Add butter, sugar and flour. 
Beat. Roll very thin and cut In pieces 3 inches long by 2 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES 127 

inches wide. Malie four 1-inch parallel gashes crosswise at 
equal intervals. Take up by running handle of wooden spoon 
in and out of gashes. Lower into deep fat, fry, drain and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. 



128 PRACTICAL COOKERY 



FILLINGS AND ICINGS 

Simple decorations of cake& add to attractiveness and 
palatability. Small cakes may be dipped in Icing so that all 
surfaces are- covered. Iced cakes may be decorated in designs 
by the use of a pastry bag and tube. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Trim the cake, if necessary, to make it smooth and sym- 
metrical. The cake may be inverted. Place on a board cover- 
After all of the layers have been arranged, the top of the cake 
may be iced. Small cakes, which are to' be dipped, may be 
turning the board. Let it stand in a warm place until the 
iciag Is dry. If the cake has been baked in layers, see that 
the layers fit evenly btfore spreading the filling between them. 
After all of the layers have been arranged the top of the cake 
may be iced. Small cakes which are to be dipped may be 
glazed or brushed with white of egs mixed with a little sugar. 
Set aside to dry before dipping. Have the icing in a deep bowl. 
Dip the cakes qne by one, being careful to have the entire 
surface evenly coated. Cakes may be held on a knitting needle. 
Place the dipped cakes on a rack to dry. 

CRBAM FILLING 

li tbsp. cornstarch } c. sugar 

1 c. milk i tap. vanilla 

1 egg or 2 egg yolks i tsp. salt 

Make a sauce with cornstarch and milk. Make a steamed 
custard with remaining ingredients, using the sauce as the 
liquid. 

BROWN SUGAR FILLING 

2 c. brown sugar 2 tbsp. butter 
i c. milk i 0. nuts 

Boil sugar, milk and butter to the soft-ball stage. Take 
from the fire and beat until creamy. Add chopped nuts and 
mix thoroughly. 



FILLINGS AND ICINGS 129 

CHOCOLATE PILLIIVG 

IS oz. or sq. chocolate i egg yolk 

1 c. powdered sugar J tsp. vanilla 

3 tbsp. milk 

Melt chocolate over hot water. Add the sugar and the 
milk. Add the beaten yolk and cook over hot water until 
thick and creamy, stirring constantly. Cool slightly and add 
Tanilla just before spreading. 

DATE PA^TE 

1 c. dates 
3 tbsp. milk i c. water 

1 0. sugar 1 tbsp. lemon Juice 

Wash and stone dates and cut in pieces. Mix ingredients 
and cook to a paste. 

FIG. PASTE 

Make as date paste, using figs in place of dates. 

BOILED ICING 

I c. sugar i c. water 

1 egg white 5 tsp. Havering 

Boll sugar and water to the soft-ball stage or until tt 
spins a thread. Pour in a fine stream onto the edge of stiffly 
beaten egg whites, beating constantly to incorporate syrup 
with white of egg. Add flavoring. Beat until it is thick 
enough to spread. 

BVRNT-SVGAR ICING 

Add 2 teaspoonfuls of caramel syrup to the sugar and 
water in boiled icing. 

CARAMEL NUT ICING 

Add V2 cupful of chopped nuts to burnt-sugar icing just 
before spreading. 

CARAMEL ICING 

i c. milU i c. sugar caramelized, or 

IJ c. sugar 1 c. caramel syrup 

1 tsp. vanilla 1 tbsp. butter 

Cook milk and 1 % cupfuls of sugar together. When 

boiling rapidly add hot caramelized sugar. Cook mixture to 

_9 



110 PKACTICAL COOKERY 

the soft-ball stage. Remove from heat, add butter and ♦aaiMa, 
cool and beat until creamy and thick enough to spread. 

CHOCOLATE ICING I • 

1 sq. chocolate 1 tbsp. butter 

6 tbsp. sugar 1 tbsp. cream or oillk 

Heat chocolate and sugar with a little water until melted 
and add butter and milk or cream. Beat until thick enough 
to spread. 

chocolate; icing ii 

1 sq. or oz. chocolate 5 tbsp. boiling water 

Spk. salt .A.bout 3 c. powdered sugar 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Melt chocolate over hot water. Add water, salt and 
vanilla; when smooth, add sugar and beat until very glossy. 
Add sugar until stiff enough to spread. 

CRBAM ICING 

} c. butter 2 tbsp. milk 

1 c. powdered sugar Flavoring 

Cream butter, add sugar and milk gradually and beat until 
soft and creamy. Add flavoring and sprinkle with chopped 
nuts, if desired. 

lUOCHA ICING 

1 c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. cocoa 

2 tbsp. butter About 2 tbsp. cold, stroar 

coffee 
Cream the butter, add sugar and cocoa gradually and 

b^at in the coffee a little at a time until the mixture is smooth, 
creamy and thick enough to spread. 

Q.V1CK ICING 

1 c. powdered sugar 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 tbsp. boiling water 

Mix ingredients and beat thoroughly until thick enough to 
spread. 



FILLINGS AND ICINGS 131 



POWDERED SUG/VR ICING 



t tbsp. cold water and 1 1 tbsp. orangre Juice with 

tbsp. melted chocolate grated orange rind 

Or 1 tbsp. cold water and Or 2 tbsp. cold water. I 

1 tbsp. lemon Juice with tsp. cocoa, and J tsp. 

grated lemon rind vanilla 

Or 1 tbsp. cold water and 

One cupful of powdered sugar and 2 tablespoontuls of 
butler creamed together forms the basis of this icing, with 
any of th€ above combinations added slowly, the whole being 
beaten to a smooth, creamy consistency. 

ORXAMENTAL, ICING 

1 egg white 7 to 11 tbsp. powdered. 

1 tsp. acetic acid sugar 

Beat egg; add half of the sugar. Add acid gradually as 
mixture thickens. Continue adding sugar by spoonfuls and 
beating until icing is stiff enough to spread. 



132 PKACTICALi COOKERY 



SALADS 

Salads are cold foods — cooked or uncooked — served with 
seasoned dressings. They are made from meat, fish, -vege- 
tables, fruits, eggs, or any combination of foods having har- 
monious flavors. The common dressings are French, mayon- 
naise, cooked and whipped cream. 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 

Attractiveness of appearance must be particutarly sought 
for in salads. All fresh vegetables used should be crisp, 
cold and thoroughly washed. Canned or cold, cooked vege- 
tables may often be used. They should be in firm, even-sized 
pieces. Meat for salad should be freed from skin, bone and 
gristle, and should be diced. Much of the attractiveness of the 
salad depends on the garnishing and if this is artistically done 
it increases the palatability of the salad. The garnish should 
not detract from the main substance. The best effects are 
produced by a few materials contrasting well in color, or by 
two or three shades of the same color. Ordinarily the mater- 
ial used for garnish should be edible, although occasionally 
the salad may be served in baskets made from the halt skina 
of small grape fruit, oranges or large lemons; or in apples or 
cooked beets; or in the boat-like shape of a half cucumber or 
banana peeling. 

TO WASH LETTUCE 

Handle delicately. Remove leaf by leaf from stalk, ex- 
amining for insects. Pass backwards and forwards through 
clean water until all sand is removed. Dry by pressing Itghtly 
between folds of linen or by whirling in a lettuce drier. Put 
Into cold place until used. Lettuce is best kept in a moist 
cloth or paper bag placed in the refrigerator. 

FRBNCH DRESSING 

} tsp. sugar 5 tbsp. vinegar or lemon 

1 tsp. salt Juice 

J tsp. paprika 10 tb.<!p olive oil 



SALADS 133 

Mix dry ingredients and add oil and vinegar alternately, 
beating constantly with a silver fork. 

BACON VAT DRESSING 

1 strip bacon 2 tbsp. sugar 

} e. water Spk. salt and cayenne 

1 tbsp. vinegar 

Cut bacon fine and brown In skillet. Add other ingredi- 
ents and hedt to boiling. Serve at once on cut lettuce or string 
bean salad. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

3 eggs i t. water 

1 tsp. salt I c. vinegar 

2 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. butter 
1 tbep. flour Seasonings 

Add sifted, dry ingredients to beaten egg and mix well; 
add .liquid and cook mixture over hot water, stirring constant- 
ly until thick. Add seasonings to taste. 

The following recipe is a more expensive cooked dressing: 

WHIPPED CRGAH DRESSING 

i c. boiling vinegar I tsp. mustard 

1 tsp. butter Spk. salt 

3 «ee yolks or 14 eggs Spk. cayenne 

2 tbsp. sugar J c. heavy cream, whipped 

Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon colored. Add sugar, 
salt, mustard and cayenne mixed. Pour gradually onto the 
mixture the hot vinegar in which the butter has been melted. 
Cook In double boiler until thick, stirring constantly. Add 
cream Just before serving. 

WHITE SALAB DRESSING 

2 tbsp. butter i c. cream 

2 tbsp. cornstarch i c. milk 

1 tsp. sugar } tsp. salt 

2 tsp. mustard i c. lemon juice 

2 egg -whites I c. whipped cream 

Spk. cayenne or white 
pepper 
Put butter and cream into saucepan. Add gradually the 
•ornstarch moistened with the milk. Cook until the starch 



134 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Is cooked. Add sugar, salt, pepper or cayenne, mustard and 
lemon juice. Mix thoroughly. Stir in stiffly beaten whites and 
cool. Add whipped cream just before serving. 

mayonnaise: 

1 egg yolk i c. olive oil 

2 tbsp. lemon Juice 5 tsp. mustard 
2 tsp. vinegar % tsp. salt 

Spk. cayenne 

Have ingredients chilled. Beat egg yolk thoroughly, add 
a few drops of vinegar, then drop by drop the oil until the mis- 
ture is very thick. Thin with a little vinegar, continue adding 
oil slowly until one halt has been .used, then the remainder 
may be added more rapidly. The seasonings are put in after 
the oil. 

RUSSIAN DRESSING - 

4 tbsp. mayonnaise 1 tbsp. chopped grreea 

t tbsp. chill sauce pepper 

2 tbsp. whipped cream 

-Combine and serve on lettuce. 

PEANUT DRESSING FOR SALAD 

i4 c. peanut butter % c. water 

1 tsp. cornstarch i tsp. salt 

1 tsp. mustard 

Boil together, stirring constantly; add 2 tablespoonfuls 
lemon juice. 

Serve on banana, orange or mixed fruit salad. 

CHEESE DRESSING FOR SAI.AD 

1 c. grated cheese i c. vinegar 

2 tsp. cornstarch 2 tsp. sugar 
i tsp. mustard i tsp. salt 

i c. milk 

Cook until thick. Use on spinach, cauliflower, dates, ete. 

FRUIT SAI.AD 

Combinations of different fruits, or fruits and nuts, served 
with French dressing or whipped cream dressing. The -lollow- 
tag are suggested combinations: 



SALADS las 

GRAPE PRUIT AND FIMENTO SALAD 

2 grape fruit 1 pimento 

ORANGE AND PIMCiVTO SALAD 
4 oranges 1 pimento 

COMBINATION FRUIT SALAD 

3 oranges I c. white cherries or 
2 slices canned pineapple Malaga grapes 

DATE SALAD 

i lb. dates J c. chopped walnuts or 

2 slices canned pineapple pecans 

WHITE AND GOLD SALAD 

Cut blanched stalks of celery In pieces 3 to 4 inches long, 
with a sharp knife. Feather the ends. Let remain V2 hour in 
acidulated water (2 tablespoontuls of vinegar to 1 cupful of 
water). Peel orange and divide in sections, remove seeds and 
skin. Put all onto lettuce leaf and serve with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

PEAR SALAD 

Wipe, pare and cut pears in eighths lengthwise; then re- 
move seeds. Arrange on lettuce leaves, pour on French dres- 
skig and garnish with ribbons of red pepper. Canned pears 
may also be used. 

FRVIT AND MARSHMALLOW SALAD 

1 Slice pineapple 2 marshmallows 

8 white grapes or cherries 

BANANA SALAD 

3 bananas i c. cliopped nvts 

APPLE AND CEI«ERY SAL.ID 

1 o. celery J c. chopped nuts or J c. 

2 c. apples Malaga grapes 
1 iap. lemon juice 

DRESSED WATERCRESS OR LETTUCE 

Wash lettuce or watercress, drain and chill thoroughly. 
.Aiirrange lightly in salad bowl and serve with French drosriing. 



136 PRACTICAL. COOK BR Y 



POTATO SALAD I 



3 6. cold, boiled potatoes Pew drops onion juice 

3 hard-cooked eggs 

Cut potatoes in %-inch cubes. Chop whites of eggs. Mix, 
add onion and mix lightly with salad dressing, using either 
mayonnaise or cooked dressing. Pile onto lettuce leaves and 
garnish with yolks pressed through a sieve. 

PEA AND POTATO BALL SALAD 

8 medium-sized potatoes li c. canned peas 

Make potato balls from the potatoes with a vegetable 
cutter. Boil until tender, drain and cool. Marinate peas and 
potato balls with French dressing. Pour off French dressing. 
Arrange on lettuce leaves and serve with mayonnaise. 

PEA AI«D PEANUT SALAD 

1 c. peas I c. peanuts - 

Mix peas with shelled and skinned peanuts. Serve with 
cooked salad dressing or mayonnaise. 

RKD BEAN SALAD 

1| o. red kidney heans i tsp. Worcestershire 

9 sweet, spiced pickles sauce 

i tsp. Tobasco sauce 3 tbsp. chopped celery 

Mix and serve with cooked salad dressing. Garnish with 
parsley. 

LETTVCE, EGG AND RADISH SALAD 

3 hard-cooked eggs 1 bunch lettuce 

1 bunch radishes, about 12 

Chop egg whites. Cut radishes in thin slices crosswise. 
Shred lettuce. Chop yolks. Mix whites and radishes with 
mayonnaise or cooked salad dressing, and mix lettuce and yolks 
with French dressing. Form a nest of lettuce mixture and 
serve radish mixture in center garnished with one whole radish 
cut as a rose. 

TOMATO SALAD 

Peel medium-sized tomatoes and chill. Cut In eighths, 
cutting not quite through, so that the tomato, when set on a 
lettuce leaf, will spread but not fall apart. Sprinkle with salt 



SALADS 137 

and garnish with a spoonful of mayonnaise or cooked salad 
dressing. Tomatoes may be sliced and us«d with salad dressing 
in a similar way. 

POINSETTA TOMATO SALAD 

Wash tomato, cut out green core at stem end and, with a 
sharp knife, scrape skin, beginning at blossom end and con- 
tinuing down half way. Cut through skin half way down, be- 
gthning at blossom end, making five divisions. Carefully turn 
back skin to end of cut, forming calyx leaves. Make similar 
cut through fleshy part and carefully fold back sections. Serve 
with cooked or mayonnaise salad dressing. The seeds may be 
removed and tomato filled with a mixture of cabbage and nuts. 

STAFFED TOMATO SALAD 

Peel medium-sized tomatoes. Remove thin slice from top 
of each, taking out seeds and part of pulp. Sprinkle inside with 
salt. Fill tomatoes with pineapple, cut in small cubes or 
shredded, and nut meats, using % pineapple and % nut meats. 
Mix with mayonnaise dressing, garnish with mayonnaise, 
halves of nut meats and slices cut from tops, cut square. Serve 
on a bed of lettuce leaves. 

Any one of the following mixtures may be substituted for 
the pineapple and nut^: 

Cubes of cucumber with tomato pulp mixed with boiled 
salad dressing or mayonnaise. 

Apple and celery mixed with any salad dressing. 

Shredded cabbage and nuts mixed with cooked salad dres- 
sing or mayonnaise. 

Shredded cabbage and green peppers mixed with cooked 
salad dressing or mayonnaise. 

FROZEN TOMATO SALAD 

25 c. tomato juice 3 bay leaves 

8 peppercorns 6 cloves 

Ih tsp. salt 

Add spices lo tomatoes, bring to a boil and boil 1 minute. 
Pre^ through a sieve and freeze as an ice. Serve with cooked 
salad dressing or mayonnaise. 



138 PRACTICAL COOKERY 



TOMATO JEI.liY 



25 c. tonialo Juice 5 cloves 

1} tbsp. gelatin A few sprig^s of parsley 

i tsp. salt 

Swell gelatin in % cupful of tomato juice. Boil remainder 
of tomato juice with cloves and salt 1 minute. Remove from 
heat, add swollen gelatin and stir until dissolved. Put parsley 
into wet molds and strain tomato juice over it. Chill until 
firm. Unmold on lettuce leaf and serve with cooked salad 
dressing or mayonnaise. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD I 

1 bunch asparagus (cold. l°tbsp finely chopped par- 

cooked) sley 

4 lettuce leaves 1 tbsp chopped pimento 

1 hard-cooked egg 

Cut the lettuce leaves in halves, lengthwise. Arrange in 
2 parallel rows overlapping one another on the plate. Place 
the asparagus in center and arrange a band of the remaining 
ingredients mixed together. Serve with French dressing. 

ASI'ARACOS S.'VL.^D II 

Cut rings from a pepper or from a lemon, % Inch wide. 
Slip 3 or 4 stalks of cold boiled asparagus through each ring 
and arrange on crisp lettuce leaves. Serve with French dres- 
sing, to which has been added % tablespoonful of tomato cat- 
sup. A few pieces of pimento- give a dash of color to the salad 
if lemon is used. 

HOT SI-AW 

* small cabbage, sliced 1 tbsp. butter 

fine J c. vinegar 

2 egg yolks i tsp. salt- 
I c. water 

Heat cabbage in a sauce made from the remainder of the 
Ingredients. 

WHITE SALAD 

4 c. chopped celery 4 tsp. gelatin 

1 c. shredded cabbage 2 tsp. lemon juice 

5 c. nut meats 2 tsp. sugar 

2 slices pimento 2 tsp. salt 
2 c. water 



SALADS 139 

Make a liquid lemon jelly. Add celery, cabbage, nuts and 
pimentos. Mold and serve on white lettuce leaf with white 
salad dressing. 

In absence of white lettuce, salad may be garnished with 
parsley, cabbage leaf, or celery leaves. 

EGG SALAD I 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in halves crosswise in such a way 
that edges of halves, are left in small points. Remove yolks, 
rub through sieve, moisten with cooked dressing and refill 
whites with mixture. Arrange on lettuce leaves, garnish with 
thin slices of radish overlapping each other and a radish cut 
to represent a tulip or rose. 

F.GG SALAD II 

Separate yolks and whites of hard-cooked eggs. Finely 
chop whites and mix with twice as much shredded lettuce or 
chopped celery. Moisten with French or cooked dressing. 
Arrange on lettuce leaves and pile yolks, forced through a 
strainer, in the center. 

BGG SALAD III 

6 hard-cooked eggs 6 lettuce leaves 

6 tbsp salad dressing 2 c. shredded lettuce 

Cut eggs lengthwise and remove yolks. Cut white in strips 
shaped as daisy petals. Shred lettuce and mix lettuce and 
yolk each with a little salad dressing. Pile shredded lettuce 
on lettuce leaf, arrange over it the white cut in strips as daisy 
petals and pile yolk in center. 

SALMON SALAD 

2 c. cold, boiled or canned i c. chopped celery 

salmon 1 hard-cooked egg 

Mix salmon, celery and French or mayonnaise dressing. 

Arrange on lettuce leaves and garnish with hard-cooked egg. 

SWEETBREAD AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

2 c. cold, cooked sweet- Salt 

breads Pepper 

2 c. cucumber Salad dressing 



140 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Cut sweetbreads and cucumbers in V^-inch cubes. Mix. 
season with salt and pepper and moisten with dressing. Ar- 
range in nests of lettuce leaves or in cucumber cups. Serv* 
with cooked salad dressing or mayonnaise. 

Diced" chicken may be substituted for the sweetbreads. 

To prepare cucumber cups, pare cucumbers, remove thick 
slices from eacti end and cut in halves crosswise. Take out 
centers, put cups in cold water and let stand until crisp; drain 
and dry for refilling. Small cucumbers may be pared, cut in 
halves lengthwise, centers removed and cut pointed at ends to 
represent a boat. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

li c. cold chicken I tbsp. capers 

1 c. chopped celery 

Mix ingredients lightly with mayonnaise or cooked salad 
dressing. Pile on lettuce leaves and garnish with capers and 
thin slices of pickle. Serve with salad dressing. 

CaEAM CHEESE SALAD 

Philadelphia cream cheeese Bar le Due currants 

Lettuce 

Press the cheese through a ricer onto the lettuce. Dot 

with the Bar le Due currants and serve with French dressing. 

LETTUCE SALAD WITH CHEESE BALLS 

2 pkgs. Neufchatel cheese 2 tbsp. pecans, chopped 
i tsp. onion juice i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. lemon juice } tsp. paprika 

1 tbsp. parsley 

Mix all the seasonings with the cheese. Make into small 
balls with butter paddles and jserve with head lettuce covered 
with French dressing. For variation do not put the parsley 
into the balls but chop more of it very fine and roll the balls in 
it very lightly. 



SANDWICHES 141 



SANDWICHES 

Sandwiches are classified according to the kind o£ mater- 
ial used for filling. Savory sandwiches are made of crackers, 
pastry, or any kind of bread. Sweet sandwiches are made of 
cake, lady fingers, macaroons, sweet waters, crackers, pastry, 
or any kind of bread. The filling for a sandwich is made of 
any material that is appropriately eaten with the cover. 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 

Bread tor sandwiches cuts better when it is a day old. 
Fresh bread is better tor rolled sandwiches. The slices should 
be cut as thinly as possible. Sandwiches are more dainty if the 
crusts of the bread are cut away. Cream the butter and spread 
the bread evenly and smoothly. When the sandwiches are to be 
cut with fancy cutters, shape the bread before spreading. Care- 
fully spread the filling on one slice of the bread. Lay the sec- 
ond slice on it. When .meat is used alone for filling, the pieces 
should be shaved very thin. Use more than one piece in each 
sandwich. If it is necessary to make the sandwiches several 
hours before serving, they may be kept fresh and moist by 
wrapping in a cloth which has been wrung as dry as possible 
out of water. ParaflSn paper is often used for the same pur- 
pose. Keep the wrapped sandwiches in a cool place until 
ready to serve. 

BRRAD AND BUTTER SANDWICHES 

Cut thin slices of brown or white bread in desired shapes. 
Spread with butter. Press together. 

RIBBON SANDWICHES 

Cut two slices each of white and whole-wheat bread % 
inch thick. Butter liberally one of each on one side and one 
of each on both sides. Press together alternately, leaving the 
unbuffered sides on top and bottom. Chill until the butter is 
-set. Then cut down through in slices % inch thick. 

CHECKERBOARD SANDWICHES 

Butter four ribbon sandwiches liberally, two on both sides 



142 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

and two on one side. Press together as ribbon sandwiches so 
that the end shows the whole-wheat strip directly over a white 
strip. Chill to harden butter, then cut %-inch slices from 
the ends. 

SANDAVICH ROLLS 

Wrap bread as it is taken from the oven closely in a to\"Ql 
wrung out of cold water, cover with several thicknesses of drj 
cloth and set aside about 4 hours. Cut away the crust and, 
with a thin, sharp knife, cut the loaf in slices as thin as pos- 
sible. Spread with butter and roll the slices very closely. Tie 
with ribbon if desired. 

LETTLCE SAjXUWICHES 

Butter thin slices of bread. Lay a crisp, tender lettu-ce 
leaf on one slice, spread with thick, cooked salad dressing, cover 
dressing with lettuce leaf, and press another slice of bread 
over it. A lettuce leaf is an appetizing addition to many 
ties of sandwiches. 

NASTURTIUM! SANDWICHES 

Butter thin slices of bread. Lay a crisp, tender nasturtium 
leaf on one slice, spread with thick, cooked salad dressing. 
Cover with nasturtium leaf, and press another slice of bread 
over it. A nasturtium leaf is an appetizing addition to many 
varieties of sandwiches. 

WATERCRESS SANDWICHES 

Marinate watercress with French dressing. Place between 
thin, buttered slices of bread. 

RAW HEEF SANDWICHES 

Scrape beef as tor beef balls. Season \frith salt. Spread 
between thin slices of bread. 

CHICKEX SANDWICHES 

Force cold, cooked chicken through a food cutter and 
moisten with mayonnaise or with cooked salad dressing, »«r 
season with ealt and pepper and moisten with rich chicken 



SANDWICHES 143 

Stock. Chopped parsley, celery salt or onion juice may be 
used for seasoning. Spread between thin, buttered slices of 
bread. 

HAM OR TOXGUB SANDWICHES 

I c. ground meal 1 pimento 

i 6weet, spiced pickles 

Trim fat from meat, grind all together and spread between 
thin slices of buttered bread. Moisten with salad dressing if 
desired. 

GROUNU HAM SANDWICHES 

Trim fat from the ham, force it through a food cutter. 
Season with catsup, Worcestershire sauce and Tobasco sauce. 
Mix with salad dressing. Spread between thin slices of but- 
tered bread. 

HAM AND EGG SANDWICHES 

't c. lean ham 2 tbsp. cooked salad dres- 

2 tbsp. fat ham singr 

% c. butter 4 hard-cooked egg yolks 

1 tsp. chopped capers i tsp. prepared mustard 

Force the meat through a food cutter, add the seasoning 
and eggs and mash all together to a smooth paste. Spread 
between thin slices of buttered bread. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Chop the whites of hard-cooked eggs. Force the yolks 
tferough a sieve. Season and moisten with salad dres.siBg. 
Spr d between thin slices of buttered bread. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

6 sardines L,emon juice 

6 hard-cooked egg yolks Paprika 

3 tbsp butter Salt 

Remove the bones from the sardines, mash fine with the 
yolks of eggs and the butter. Season to taste with the lemon 
juice, paprika and salt. Hojlandaise sauce may be substituted 
for the butter and lemon juice. Spread between thin slices of 
buttered bread. 



144 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

CHBESE AND OLIVE SANDWICHKS 

Cream cheese or grated American cheese may be used. 
Mix with chopped olives or chopped pimentos and sufflcient 
cooked salad dressing to make it of the right consistency to 
spread. Additional seasoning may be used if needed. Spread 
between thin slices of buttered bread. 

Ri:SSIA> SANDWICHES 

Spread thin slices of buttered bread with any cream cheese 
Spread an equal number of slices with fine-chopped olives and 
pimentos mixed with mayonnaise dressing. Press together in 
pairs with a crisp heart leaf of lettuce between each pair. 
Serve while the lettuce is fresh 

Cl.lin SAIVDWICHES 

Arrange lettuce, bacon, tomato and mayonnaise on toast 
and cover with a second slice of toast Make a second layer of 
lettuce, sliced chicken, cucumber and mayonnaise. Cover 
with a third piece of toast and garnish with an olive or pickle. 

PE.\NUT SANDAVICHES 

Shell and finely grind peanuts. Mix with salt and salad 
dressing Spread between thin slices of buttered bread 

KAISIN SAND>VICHES 

1 c raisins .; c. Knglish walnuts 

i sugar 

Chop the raisins and stew until soft; add the sugar and 
cook until the juice is well thickened. Add the chopped nuts 
and mix well. Spread between thin slices of buttered bread, 
either brbwn or white. 

DATE. FIG OR PRESERVED GINGER SANDWICHES 

I u. dates, figs or pre- I c. English walnut meats, 

served ginger chopped chopped fine 

fine I 0. cream 

1 tbsp. lemon Juice 
Mix and spread between thin slices of buttered bread, 
eitlier brown or white. 



SANDWICHES 145 

CHOCOLATE SANDWICHES 

Sweetened or unsweetened chocolate may be used, the 
latter being sweetened to taste by the addition of sugar. Melt 
the chocolate. Add a small amount of water and cook until 
smooth and glossy. Add chopped nuts or peanut butter, if de- 
sired, and spread between thin slices of buttered bread. Lady 
Angers or other suitable cakes may be used instead of bread. 

WHIPPED-CREAM SANDWICHES 

Spread between thin slices of cake a filling made of 
^rhipped cream which has been sweetened and flavored. 

Candied cherries and nuts or nuts alone may be chopped 
and added to the whipped cream. 



146 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

DKSSEBTS 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUUDING 

h v;. stale bread crumbs 1 egg 

1 c. scalded milk Spk. salt 

J sq. chocolate Few drops vanilla 

3 tbsp. sugar i tsp. cinnamon 

Soak bread in milk. Melt chocolate, add sugar and enough 
milk taken from bread and milk to make of consistency to 
pour. Combine bread and milk, chocolate mixture, salt, 
vanilla and egg, slightly beaten. Turn into buttered pudding 
dish and bake in moderate oven about 4 minutes. Serve with 
hard or cream sauce. 

OnA\GE BRBAU PUDDING 

i c. stale bread' crumbs ■ i c. orange juice 

i c- milk 3 tbsp. sugar 

Grated peel of 1 orange, 1 egg 
if desired 

Soak bread in milk. Add orange juice, sugar and egg 
yolk. Fold ih stiffly beaten white. Bake in individual molds 
set in hot water. Serve with or without hard sauce. 

CHOCOLATE CORNSTARCH MOLD 

1 c. milk 2 tbsp. cornstarch 
i sq. chocolate Spk. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar J tsp. vanilla 

Melt chocolate. Add to hot milk and complete as a sauce. 
Pour into wet- molds. When cold, unmold and serve with 
cream and sugar or whipped cream. 

IRISH MOSS JELLY' 

i c. Irish moss 1 tbsp. lemon or orange 

4 figs juice 

2 c. boiling water Mi c. sugar 

Soak, pick over and wash the moss. Cut figs in strips. 
Add moss and flgs to boiling water. Simmer about 20 
minutes, or until thick when dropped on a cold plate. Add 
lemon juice and sugar. Strain in cold, wet mold. 



DESSERTS 14T 

IRISH MOSS nLAXC MA.NGF> 

J c. Irish moss 13 c. milk 

Spk. salt % tsp. vanilla 

Soak moss In cold water abovit 15 minutes. Put into 
double boiler with milk. Cook until it thickens when dropped 
onto a cold plate. Add salt, strain and flavor. 



JUNKET I'UDOING 

1 rennin tablet 1 tsp. water 

4 c. milk Vanilla 

I w. sugar 

Dissolve rennin tablet in the water. Dissolve sugar in 
milk, add vanilla and heat to body temperature. Add rennin 
solution, turn into wet mold and allow to remain undisturbed 
at room temperature until firm. Unmold and serve immediately 
with sugar and cream. 

LEMON SOUFFLE 

1 egg 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

3 tbsp. sugar 

Beat yolk until thick and lemon colored and add sugar 
gradually. Add lemon juice. Fold in white of egg, beaten 
BtiS and dry. Pour into oiled baking dish and bake, set in 
pan of hot water. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 

Follow directions given under sauces. For flavoring use 
2 squares of chocolate and V4 cupful of sugar to 1 cupful of 
milk. 

LEMON CREAM 

1 egg li tbsp. lemon juice 

1 tbsp. sugar Spk. salt 

Beat yolk of egg slightly, add sugar, lemon juice and salt, 
then cook over hot water until mixture thickens slightly. Fold 
in stiffly beaten white of egg. Turn into a glass and chill. 
Serve with lady fingers. 



148 practical cookery 

orange: crbam 

1 egg 1 tsp. temon juloe 

3 tbsp. -sugar Spk. salt 

a tbsp. orange juice 

Prepare as lemon cream. 

IMPBRIAL PUDDING 

PART I 

) c rice 1 qt. boiling watM- 

1 pt. milk 

PART II 

i c. cold water i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp, gelatin 1 c. sugar 
} c. hot milk Flavoring - 

1 pt. whipped cream 

Part I. Wash the rice, cook in the boiling water until it 
boils hard; then drain off the water, add the milk and cook 1 
hour in a double boiler. 

Part II. Swell gelatin in water. Add the hot milk, stratn. 
add salt and sugar. Stir in the rice. Stir until the mixture 
thickens. Add flavoring and whipped cream. Pour Into a 
buttered mold. When cold serve with plain whipped cream 
or cream colored with fruit juice. 

steamed tapioca ' 

2 tbsp. tapioca 1 egg 

1 c. milk Spk. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar 10 drops vanilla 

Put tapioca in cold milk, add sugar and salt and cook I 
hour in double boiler. Pour over beaten egg. Return to 
boiler and complete as a steamed custard. 

CRBAIM TAPIOCA PUDDING 

1 egg 6 tbsp. cocoanut 

3 tbsp. tapioca 3 tbsp. powdered sugar 
1 c. sugar 

Soak tapioca over night. Cook % hour in water to cover. 
Add slightly beaten egg yolk, sugar and half the cocoanut. 
Cook 10 minutes. Pour into dish. Beat egg white stiff, add 
powdered sugar and pour over top. Sprinkle. remainder at 
cocoanut over all and set in oven to brown. 



DEISSBRTS 149 

CHOCOLATE TAPIOCA 

IS c. milk Spk. salt 

5 tbsp. minute tapioca 3 sq. choco^ate 

5 tbsp. sugar 10 drops vanilla 

Melt chocolate in double boiler. Scald milk and add to 
chocolate. Add tapioca, sugar and salt. Cook until gran- 
ules are clear and milk is absorbed. If more liquid is needed, 
add by the tablespoonful. Add vanilla. Pour into wet molds. 
Chill, unmeld and serve with hard sauce. 

FRUIT TAPIOCA 

4 tbsp. pearl tapioca Spk. salt 

t 0. water 2 c. cooked fruit 

% v;. sugar 

Soak tapioca over night in 1 c. cold water. In the morn- 
ing add the other cupful of cold water and the salt. Cook over 
airect heat 10 minutes. Put into a double boiler and cook 
until clear. Add sugar and fruit. Chill and serve with whipped 
cream. 

INDIAN PUDDING 

i c. scalded milk 2 tbsp. molasses 

1 tbsp. Indian meal i tsp. salt 

J u. cold water i tsp. cinnamon 

2 tbsp. sugar i tsp. ginger 
i egg 2 tbsp. milk 

Mix Indian n>eal with cold water and add to scalded milk. 

Cook 20 minutes. Add other ingredients except cold milk. 

Pour into buttered baking dish and bake in moderate oven Vz 

hour. Pour on 2 tablespoonfuls of milk and bake 2 hours 

longer, without stirring. 

LINCOI-N SNOWBALLS 

1 c. riCfc 5 or 6 small apples 

1 tsp. salt 

Steam rice until soft. Core arid pare the apples» Hare 
ready 5 or 6 pieces of cheesecloth about 10 inches square. Dip 
into hot water and wring. Lay one at a time on a plate and 
spread with a layer of cooked rice about % inch thick. Place 
an apple in center, fill center of apple with rice and draw cloth 



150 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

around apple, being careful to cover it with the rice. Tie the 
cloth rather tight. Place in steamer and cook 20 to 30 min- 
utes, or until apples are soft. The apples may be steamed 5 
or 10 minutes before putting them into the rice. Apricots or 
peaches may be used. Serve with soft custard or pudding 
sauce. 

APPLE PRITTERSs 

1% c. flour 2 medlum-siaed sour 

1 tbsp. olive oil or melted apples 

butter % c. milk 

1 tsp. salt 1 egg 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually, then 
the egg, beaten slightly. Add olive oil or melted butter. Pare, 
core and cut apples in slices. Dip into batter. Fry, drain and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE - 

Make as directed for shortcake II. Spread the mixture % 
inch thick in a shallow baking tin. Wipe, quarter, core and 
pare 4 sour apples. Cut each quarter into halves lengthwise, 
place them in parallel rows on the top of the mixture, the 
sharp edge down. Sprinkle the apples with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar mixed with Vz teaspoonful of cinnamon. Bake in hot 
oven 25 to 30 minutes, or until the apples are soft. Serve 
with lemon sauce or whipped cream. 

RATE ROLLS 

Roll biscuit dough '/^ inch thick and spread with date 
paste. Roll as a jelly roll, cut in slices 1 inch thick. Place 
cut side down in an oiled tin far enough apart to allow them to 
swell while baking and bake in a hot oven. These may be 
served as a roll or with a sauce. 

,\PPLE ROLL 

Pare and chop the apples. Roll biscuit, dough in an oblong 
about V2 inch thick and spread with the apple. Sprinkle the 
apple with sugar and nutmeg. Roll as a jelly roll, cut In 
slices 1 inch thick and place cut side down in an oiled tin far 



DESSERTS 151 

enough apart to allow them to swell while baking. Bake in a 
hot oven and serve with a sauce. 

BAKSD PKTJIT DUMPLINGS' 

Make a dough as directed for biscuits, using a little less 
milk and a little more shortening if desired. Roll M, inch 
thick. Cut in squares large enough to cover an apple or other 
fruit. (Large fruit left whole should be previously cooked 5 
to 10 minutes.) Place the fruit in the middle of the dough, 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg. Moisten the 
edges of the dough with cold water or milk and fold so that 
the corners will meet in the center. Press the edges together 
gently. Place in an oiled tin, adding a small amount of water, 
and bake in a rather hot oven until the crust and fruit are 
cooked. Dumplings may also be cooked in a buttered steamer, 
when a longer time will be required. Serve with a sweet 
sauce. 

SHORTCAKE I 

Add to the ingredients for biscuits 1 to 3 tablespoonfuls 
of shortening and 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Mix as for biscuits. 
Divide the dough into 2 equal parts and shape one portion to 
fit a square or round tin. Brush the top lightly with melted 
butter. Shape the second portion of dough and place over the 
first. Bake in hot oven. After baking, separate the layers, 
put crushed and sweetened fruit on one layer and place the 
other layer over it. More fruit may be placed on top if de- 
sired. Serve with plain or whipped cream, added just before 
serving. The two layers may be baked in separate tins. Any 
shortcake mixture may be prepared for individual service by 
shaping with a large biscuit cutter. 

SHORTCAKB3 II 

2 c. flour 4 tsp. baking powder 

6 tbsp. butter 1 egg 

1 c. milk h tsp. salt 

Sift salt, baking powder and flour together. Cut shorten- 
ing into it. Add egg yolk to mixture. Add milk. Fold in 
stiffly beaten white of egg. Follow directions for baking 
sJJortcake I. 



152 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

CHARLOTTE RUSSB 

Line a sherbet glass with lady fingers. Fill with sweet- 
ened whipped cream and garnish with angelica made into stems 
and leaves, using candied cherry for flower; with nut meats 
chopped fine; or with raisins. 

Or, pin steamed sponge cake together with toothpicks, fin 
with whipped cream mixed with nut meats and decorate top 
with strips of cake and candied cherry. 

Thin cream may be ised, stiffened with gelatin and 
beaten. 

CAL.L.AS 

3 eggs 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. sugar 2 tbsp. cold water 

1 c. flour 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar. Sift baking powder with 
flour and add to egg and [Bugar mixture. Add water. Bake 
in thin layers on an oiled baking sheet. When done cut in 4- 
inch squares, remove from tin and roll each square in the 
shape of a funnel by bringing the diagonal corners together. 
Hold in place until cool; fill with sweeteened whipped cream; 
garnish the center of the cream with a bit of egg yolk and 
sugar, mixed together to represent a calla lily stamen. 

ORANGE SNOW 

1 egg white 2 tbsp. cruslied Ice 

% c. orange juice 

Beat egg until stiff and dry, add orange juice slowly. Fold 
in crushed ice and serve at once. 

APPLE SNOW 

Wipe, pare, core and quarter 1 sour apple. Steam until 
soft and rub through' a sieve. There should be % cupful of 
apple pulp. Beat white of 1 egg- until stiff, using a silver fork. 
Sweeten apple pulp to taste and add gradually to beaten white 
of egg; continue the beating. Pile lightly on glass serving 
dish, chill and serve with cream or steamed custard. 

PEACH SNOW^ 

Wipe and remove skin from 1 peach. Force pulp through 
a sieve and drain, if there is much juice. Beat the white ot 



DESSERTS 158 

1 egg until stiff, using a silver fork. Add peach pulp gradual- 
ly while continuing the beating. Sweeten with powdered su- 
gar, pile on glass dish, chill and serve with steamed custard or 
cream. 

SUET PUDDING 1 

i c. suei 1 c. sour mtlk 

i c. molasses 3 tsp. soda 

Spk. salt I c. flour 

i tsp. cinnamon 3 c. raisins 

5 tsp. cloves i c. currants 

Chop suet fine. Wash and dry currants and raisins. Cut 
raisins. Sprinkle suet, raisins and currants with flour. Mix 
milk and molasses. To it add fruit and suet. Mix and sift all 
dry ingredients and add to milk mixture. Pour into oiled mold 
and steam 3 hours. Serve hot with hard sauce. 

SUET PUDDING II 

1 c. finely chopped suet IJ tsp. salt 

1 <.-. molasses I tsp. ginger 

1 c. milk 1 tsp. cloves 

i c. flour .; tsp. nutmeg 

1 tsp. soda 1 tsp. cinnamon 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk to 
suet. Combiae mixtures. Turn into oiled mold, cover and 
steam 3 hours. Serve with sterling sauce. Raisins and cur- 
rants may be added. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 egg 'i sqs. chocolate 

6 tbsp. sugar 6 tbsp. milk 

Salt 1 e. flour 

3 tbsp. melted butter 2 tsp. baking powder 

Melt chocolate, add butter, sugar, well beaten egg and, 
alternately, the milk and sifted dry ingredients. Steam one 
hour in a well oiled mold. 

WASHINGTON PIE 

3 c, sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 c. butter i c. milk 

2 eggs U c. flour 
IJ tsp. baking powder 



164 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Mix as a butter cake. Bake in 2 layers. Put cream filling 
or jam between layers and sprinkle top with powdered sugar. 

PORCUPINE PUDDING 

i c. heavy cream 1 tsp. powdered sugar 

4 drops vanilla 8 annonds 

Whip, sweeten and flavor cream. Blanch almonds, brown 
in butter and wipe each with soft paper. Pile cream on a dish 
and garnish with almonds, leaving pointed ends exposed. 

DATE PUDDING I . 

h lb. dates 1 lb. nuts 

5 egg whites 3 tsp. baking powder 

1 c sugar 

Beat eggs stiff and dry. Mix baking powder with sugar 
and fold into the egg whites. Stone and chop dates. Shell 
and chop nuts. Fold into sugar and egg. Bake in an oiled tin 
20 to 30 minutes. 

DATE PUDDING II 

9 tbsp. cracker crumbs I lb. dates 

2 tbsp. baking powder 6 eggs - 

1 lb. unshelled English IJ c. sugar 

walnuts 

Beat yolks until light and creamy. Add sugar, chopped 
nuts, dates and cracker crumbs. Beat whites stiff and to them 
add the baking powder. Then carefully fold the whites into 
the other ingredients. Bake in a shallow buttered tin in a 
very slow oven from 30 to 45 minutes. When done, cut in 
inch cubes and serve with whipped cream in frapp^ glasses. 

STEAMED FIG PUDDING - 

1 c. dark molasses 1 tsp. soda 

1 K. chopped suet 1 c; sour milk 

2 c. chopped figs 2 eggs 

1 tsp. cinnamon 25 c. flour 

i tsp. nutmeg 

Mix together molasses, suet, figs and spices. Add soda 
and milk. Add eggs, well beaten, and flour gradually. Beat 
all thoroughly and fill a well oiled mold three-fourths full. 
Steam two hours. Serve with sterling sauce garnished with 
whipped cream. 



DESSERTS 155 

8TBA.MEID FRUIT PUDDING 

i c. butter i tap. salt 

J c. sugar 2 egg whites 

1 c. milk About 2} c. flour, or enougrh 

2 tsp. baking powder to make stiff drop batter 

Mix as a butter cake. Partly fill oiled molds with jelly 
or preserved fruit. Pour batter on- the fruit and steam % 
hour. Serve with a pudding sauce. 



CUSTAEDS 

Custards are combinations of milk and egg, sweetened and 
flavored. Because of the protein present, they should be cooked 
at a low temperature. This is accomplished by steaming or by 
baking in molds set in pans of water. Custards are classified ac- 
cording to the method of preparation. There are two kinds, 
steamed and baked. 

To combine a steamed custard, scald the milk and pour it 
over the egg which has been beaten with the sugar and salt. 
Return mixture to double boiler and stir constantly until 
the custard will coat a metal spoon. Set in a pan of cold wa- 
ter to prevent further cooking and, as soon as cool, add the 
flavoring. 

To combine a baked custard, beat the egg with the sugar 
and salt. Add the cold milk and flavoring. Pour into molds, 
set in pans of water and bake until done. 

To test a steadied custard, lift the spoon from the mixture. 
If the spoon is coafed, the custard is done. 

To test a baked custard, insert a knife. If it comes oat 
clean, the custard is done. 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 

The following suggestions will prove helptul in making a 
steamed custard. Do not mix much sugar with little egg, as It 
makes yellow threads through the liquid. Do not beat the 
eggs too light or a porous custard will be formed. Pour the 
milk over the beaten egg to avoid lumping. To keep a custard 
smooth and to avoid lumping, stir constantly. If a custard Is 



156 PRACTICALi COOKBRT 

cooked too long it will curdle. A curdled custard may be made 
smooth by beating with a Dover beater or by pouring the 
mixture from one dish to another. When a custard is done, 
remove it from the heat at once to prevent overcooking. A 
custard should be stirred occasionally while cooling to prevent 
the formation of a coating. In making custards the following 
substitutes may be used. Two egg yolks will thicken as much 
as one egg and will niake a smoother custard. Two egg whites, 
in place of one egg, makes a white custard. Cornstarch may 
be substituted for egg, or flour and egg may be used instead 
of egg alone. Three-fourths tablespoonf ul of cornstarch or one 
tablespoonful of flour will thicken as much as one egg. To 
make a thicker custard increase the proportion of egg to milk. 
To make a custard which is to be used as a sauce decrease 
the proportion of egg to milk. 

STBAHESD CUSTARD 

1 c. milk Spk. salt 

1 egg 10 drops vanilla 

2 tbsp. sugar 

Follow general directions for a steamed custard. 

STBABfBD CARAHBL CUSTARD 

1 c. milk 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 egg . 2 tbsp. sugar, caramelhsed, 

Spk. salt or 1 tbsp. caramel syrvp 
10 drops vanilla 

Dissolve caramelized sugar or caramel syrup in the -milk. 

Complete as a steamed custard. 



STElAIHEiD chocolate: CUSTARD 

i sq. or oz. chocolate 1 tbsp. water 

1 c. hot milk 3 tbsp. sugar 

1 egg 10 drops vanilla 
Spk. salt 

Cook the chocolate with 1 tablespoonful of sugar in the 
water until glossy. Add the milk. When well mixed complete 
as a steamed custard. 



DESSERTS 157 

BAKBD CUSTARD 

1 u. milk Spk. salt 

2 eg-gs 10 drops vanilla 
2 tbsp. sugar 

Follow general directions for a baked custard. 

BAKED CARAMeL CUSTARD 

1 c. milk 1 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs Spk. salt 

2 tbsp. caramelized sugar 10 drops vanilla 

or 1 tbsp. caramel syrup 

Dissolve caramelized sugar in the milk. If caramelized 
sugar is used, the milk must be hot. Complete as a baked 
custard. 

For variation, spread the caramelized sugar over the in- 
ner surface of the mold and allow it to harden. Add custard 
mixture and bake. When vnmolded, the caramel will form a 
savrte. 

BAKED CHOCOLATE CUSTARD 

S sq. or oz. chocolate 4 tbsp. sugar 

1 0. hot milk Spk. salt 

2 eggs 10 drops vanilla 

Cook the chocolate with 1 tablespoonful of sugar in the 
water until glossy. Add the chocolate to the milk. When 
thoroughly mixed, cool and complete as a baked /custard. 



GELATIN 

Gelatin is a substance made from the bones and tendons 
of animals. It will swell in cold water and, after swelling, will 
dissolve with heat. This dissolved solution, when added to 
liquids, will solidify them upon cooling. Prolonged boiling 
destroys the gelatinizing property of gelatin. When heated to 
or near the boiling point, a disagreeable odor and flavor are 
produced. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR THE USE OF GELATIN 

Swell tlie gelatin in cold water, then dissolve it either by 



158 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

adding it to the liot liquid, adding ihe hot liquid to it or br 
placing over hot water. Stir the gelatin until all is dissolved. 
When partially set, air may be incorporated into a gelatin 
mixture by beating. This beaten gelatin is improved if the 
juice of one lemon is added for each quart of liquid. This is 
known as acidulated gelatin.- 

To mold gelatin dishes,, dip the mold in cold water, pour 
the solution into the mold and stand in a cold, level place until 
firm. 

To unmold gelatin, run the point of a knife around the 
edge of the mold, dip in warm water, place inverted serving 
plate on top, turn both over and lift the mold carefully. 

To decorate mold, prepare the gelatin solution. Bits of 
fruit, nuts, hard-cooked eggs, meat or vegetables can be used 
for decoration. Arrange these on a plate to form a design. 
Pour a thin layer of gelatin solution into a wet mold. When 
set, rearrange the design with inverted materials on the layer 
of gelatin, sticking each bit in place with a drop of the solution. 
Pour in a little more liquid to set the design. Be careful not 
to float the design. When a design is to be placed on the sides 
of the mold, dip the pieces used in decorating in the solution 
before placing against the sides of the mold. First add a little 
solution to set the base of the design and then gradually fill 
the mold. 

For doable molding in gelatin, select two molds similar 
in shape, one an inch or more larger than the other. Set the 
larger mold in a pan of ice and water. Pour in the liquid 
gelatin until it is about one inch deep. Garnish with a design 
if desired. When firm, place the smaller mold filled with lce| 
and water exactly in the center. Pour the remaining liquid 
gelatin around the small mold. When firm, dip the ice and 
water from the small mold, fill with lukewarm water and lift 
it out quickly. Fill the open space with a sponge or bavarian. 
When firm, covfer, if desired, with a layer of plain gelatin. 

General proportions used. — One-half cupful of liquid is 
usually allowed for each individual. Use % box, % ounce or 2 



DESSERTS 169 

tablespoontuls o( granulated gelatin to 4 cupfuls of water. In 
hot weather or when fruit Is to be used in the mold, more 
gelatin, is required, so allow 2 tablespoonfuls of gelatin to 3 
cupfuls of liquid. The larger the proportion of gelatin -the 
sooner it sets. Too much gelatin gives the mixture a disagree- 
able taste and also makes it tough. 

IJ tbsp, gelatin i o. lemon juice 

i c. cold water 1 c. sugar 

IJ c. boiling' water 

Swell gelatin with % cupful of cold water and dissolve 
sugar in lemon juice and remaining water. Combine mixtures. 
Strain into wet molds and chill until firm, ynmold and 
serve. 

ORANGE JELLY 

li tbsp. gelatin 1 c. orange Juice 

i c. cold water j c. lemon juice 

I) c. boiling water } i:. sugar 

Make as lemon jelly. 

ORANGE BASKETS WITH JELLY 

Cut 2 pieces from each orange, leaving what remains in the 
shape of a basket with a handle, and remove pulp from basket 
and pieces. Cut edge of basket in points, using scissors, and 
keep baskets in ice water until ready to serve. Strain juice 
from pulp and follow recipe for orange jelly. Turn into a cold, 
wet, shallow dish, chill, cut in cubes and fill baskets. Serve 
on a bed of crushed ice. 

COFFEE JELLY 

li tbsp. gelatin H c. sugar 

14 c. cold water 2 c. liquid coffee 

% c. boiling water 

Make as lemon jelly. 

IVORY JBLLY I 

li tbsp. granulated grelatln i c. sugar 

} c. cold milk } tsp. salt 

2i c. scalded milk 1 tsp. vanilla 



160 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

Swell gelatin in cold milk and dissolve in scalded milk. 
Add sugar, salt and vanilla. Strain into mold and chill. 

IVORY JELLY II 

14 tbsp. granulated gelatin J c. sugar 

i c. cold water S tsp. salt 

13 c. scalded milk S tsp. vanilla 
i c. heavy cream 

Swell gelatin in cold water and dissolve in scalded milh. 

Add sugar, salt and, when cool, heavy cream and vanilla. Stir 

o«casionaIly until mixture thickens and mold. 

LEMON SPONGE OR SNOW PUDDING 

14 tbsp. granulated gelatin } c. lemon juice 
} c. cold water 3 c. sugar 

li c. boiling water 3 egg whites 

Prepare as lemon jelly. Cool until it begins to thicken. 
Beat thoroughly, add stiffly beaten egg whites and beat until 
it will hold its shape. Pile in dish or mold and serve cold with 
custard 

ORANGE SPONGE 

1 tbsp. granulated gelatin i c. lemon juice 

I c. cold water i c. sugar 

1 t. boiling water 3 egg whites 

i c. orange juice 
Make as lemon sponge. 

COFFEE SPONGE 

1 tbsp. gelatin 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

} c. cold water 1 i;. strong coffee 

I c. bojling water 3 egg whites 

J c. sugar 
Make as ,lemon sponge. 

'■■'•' ' ' COCOA CREAM 

1 tbsp. cocoa 1 tbsp. granulated gelatin 

3 tbsp. sugar '3 c. cbTd water 

i tsp. salt 3 eggs 

1 c. boiling water ' J tsp. vanilla 

li c. milk' - ' ■ ' ■ -'• t . - 

Mix cocoa, sugar and salt. Add boiling water gradually. 



DESSERTS 161 

-while stirring constantly. Let boil 1 minute, then add milk 
aad, as soon as scalded, add slowly to the slightly beaten egg 
yolks. Cook over hot water until mixture thickens, stirring 
Qonstantly. Swell gelatin in cold water, add hot mixture and 
atir until dissolved. Strain, set in pan of ice water, stir oc- 
casionally and, when quite thick, fold in the whites of the eggs, 
beaten stiff, and the vanilla. Mold, chill and serve. 

STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN 

IJ 0. heavy cream 12 whole strawberries for 

i c. sugar decorating 

IJ c. crushed strawberries } c. boiling water 

1 tbsp. gelattn 

} c. cold water 

Make as lemon sponge, using the whipped cream in place 

of the beaten egg whites. 

ORANGE BAVARIAN 

IJ c. heavy cream J c. cold, water 

i c. sugar A few sections of orange 

IJ c. orange juice and pulp for decorating 

1 tbsp. gelatin J c. boiling water 

Make as strawberry bavarian. 

GINGER CREAM 

13 tbsp. granulated gelatin 1 pt. whipped cream 

i c. cold water S tsp. salt 

1 pt. milk i tbsp. ginger syrup 

4 eggs } f. stem ginger, cut fine 

i u. sugar 

Make a steamed custard of milk, eggs, sugar and salt. 
Add ginger and complete as strawberry bavarian. 

MARSHmALLOW PlIDDING 

1 tbsp. granulated gelatin 1 c. sugar 

3 u. cold water 3 egg whites 

1 c. boiling water 15 tsp. vanilla 

Make as lemon sponge. Turn into a shallow pan and let 
stand until thoroughly chilled. Remove from pan and cut into 
inch cubes. Roll in powdered sugar or powdered macaroons 
and serve with hot or cold chocolate sauce. 
—11 



163 PRACTICAL COOKERT 

FBOZEN DESSERTS 

Frozen desserts are to many the most, acceptable desserts 
that can be served. With suitable utensils, which are easily 
obtained, they may be made without more time or effort than 
many other desserts. The term frozen desserts includes ices. 
ice creams and frozen puddings. 

Water ice is fruit juice sweetened, diluted with water and 
frozen. 

Granite is water ice frozen with little stirring. It Is rough 
and icy. 

Prappe is a water ice frozen to the consistency of a mush^ 

Sherbet is water ice to which has been added gelatin or 
beaten egg white. Milk is sometimes used. 

Plain ice cream is a frozen product made from cream and 
sugar, with or without flavoring. Fruits or nuts may be added 
to give variety. 

A parfait is plain ice cream, flavored as desired, into 
which whipped cream has been folded before packing. 

A mousse is a whipped cream, to which sugar and flavor- 
ing has been added, frozen in a mold. The whip from thin 
cream may be used and folded into a gelatin mixture. 

A frozen pudding is a product made from cream or milk, 
with sugar, eggs, nuts and fruits, highly flavored. 

See page 163 for syrup proportions. 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 

To prepare the freezer, scald the can. Fit the parts to- 
gether to be sure they are in running order. 

To prepare the pack, break the ice in small, uniform 
pieces. The finer the ice, the quicker will be the freezing. Al- 
low 1 part of salt to 3 parts of ice for freezing, 1 part of 
salt to 4 parts of ice for packin'g frozen mixtures and equal 
parts of salt and ice for freezing in the mold. Mix the ice and 
salt thoroughly. 



DESSERTS 163 

To fill the can, fill three-fourths full. Space must be al- 
lowed for increase in bulk during freezing. If the can is over- 
crowded, the mixture will have a coarse grain when frozen. 

To freeze the mixture, pack the freezer around the can 
tbree-fourths of the way up with ice and salt, keeping can cov- 
ered. Pour the mixture into the can. Place the cover and 
finish packing. Turn the crank slowly and steadily to expose 
as large an amount of the mixture as possible to the surface of 
the can. Never drain off the salt water until the mixture is 
frozen unless there is a possibility of its getting into the can. 
The salt water effects the freezing by causing the ice to melt 
more rapidly. The heat required to melt the ice is drawn 
from the contents of the can. 

To pack after freezing, draw off the water. Remove the 
dasher and pack the mixture solidly with a spoon. Place the 
cover and cork the opening. Repack in ice and salt, using 1 
part of salt to 4 parts of ice. 

To mold, choose a mold with a close-fitting cover. Chill 
the mold. It may be lined with paraffin paper. Fill the mold 
to overflowing, to avoid air spaces. Cover and seal the open- 
ing with a strip of oiled cloth. Pack the mold in ice and salt, 
using 1 part of salt to 4 parts of ice. If the mixture is to be 
frozen in the mold, it is necessary to use equal parts of ice 
and salt. 

To unmold, wipe the outside of the mold and wrap it for a 
lew minutes in a cloth wrung out of cool water. Remove the 
cover and unmold. Turn onto a serving dish. 

SYRUP 

1 -c sugar } c. water 

Boil rapidly until sugar is dissolved. This makes one cup 
of Byrjip for use in recipes given below. 

I.BIMON ICE 

S c. cold water 5 c. syrup 

J c. lemon juice 

Mix, strain and freeze. 



164 PRACTICAL COOKERY 





orange: ice 


i c. 


orange Juice I tbsp. lemon Juice 


i c. 


water i t. syrup 


Mix, 


Strain and freeze. 




PINEAPPLE ICE 


1 c. 


shredded pineapple li tbsp. lemon Juica 



I c. cold water 3 c. syrup 

Mix and freeze. 

If fresh pineapple is used, add % cupful of syrup to tba 
pinjeapple and water. 

PEACH ICE 

li c. canned peaches 3 tbsp. lemon Juice 

Zi c. water i c. syrup 

Rub peaches through sieve and combine with syrup, lemon 

juice and water. Freeze. 

GRAPE ICE 

1 t. grape Juice 2 tbsp. lemon Juice 

1 c. water 3 c. syrup 

5 c. orange 

Mix, strain and freeze. 

GRAPE FRAPPE 

1 c. syrup 1 c. grape juice 

1 c. water 2 tbsp. lemon Juice 

Mix and freeze, using equal parts of ice and salt. 

PINE.4.PPI,E FRAPPE 

1 c. syrup > c. lemon Juice 

2 c. shredded pineapple 2 c. water 
Make as grape frapp6. 

COFFEE FRAPPE 

2 c. cold, strong coffee 5 c. syrup ' 

Make as grape -frapp^. 

LEMON SHERBET 

1 c. cold water l c. lemon Juice 

S c. syrup 2 egg whites 

Mix water, syrup and lemon juice; strain and partially 
freeze. Beat egg whites stiff, add to partially frozen mixture 
and fiaish freezing. 



DESSERTS 165 

ORANGK SHEJItBBT 

I o. orange Juice 3 i;. syrup 

1} tbsp. lemon juice 2 egg whites 

1 c cold water 

Make as lemon sherbet. 

GBAPB SHERBET 

1 c. water i c. orange juice 

J c sugar 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 c. grape juice 2 egg whites 

Hake as lemon sherbet. 

liEMON BULK SHERBET 

3 c mflk i c. lemon juice 

{ c. syrup 

Combine lemon juice and syrup and gradually add the 
mflk. If added too rapidly or without constant stirring, the 
mixture will have a curdled appearance. Freeze. 

ORANGH CREAM SHERBET 

S c. milk h c. lemon juice 

2 o. thin cream 31 u. orange juice 

3 o. sugar 2 egg whites 

Make fruit juice and sugar into a syrup. Cool. Add milk 
Had cream gradually. Partially freeze. Beat egg whites stiff, 
add to partially frozen mixture and finish freezing. 

GRAPE MILK SHERBET 

Z c. milk i c. syrup 

J c. grape juice 3 tbsp. lemon juice 

Make as lemon milk sherbet. 

PLAIN ICE CREAM 

11 c. thin cream h tsp. ^^'lla 

} c syrup Spk. e^ "^ 

Mix and freeze. This is improved by <tddition of I egg. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

1 c milk 1 c. syrup 

1 c. thin cream 2 c strawberries 

Crush strawberries, add syrup and allow to stand 15 to 20 
mintites. Strain, add milk and cream and freeze.' 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



168 PRACTICAL. COOKERY 

Beat egg yolk and sugar until light. Fold in the whipped 
cream, to which the vanilla has been added. Pour into square 
paper boxes. Sprinkle tops with grated macaroons. Pack 
boxes in a tin mold. Cover with paraffin paper. Pack In 
salt and ice for three hours. Serve in the boxes. 

FROZEN PUDDING 

1 qt. thin cream 1 c. cake crumbs 

5 c. syrup 1 i;. diced mixed fruit 

Mix cream, syrup and cake crumbs. Freeze. Fill molds 
with alternate layers of frozen cream and diced fruit. Pack 
and let stand 2 hours. 

MAJESTIC PUDDING 

1 c cold, cooked rice 1 c. heavy cream 

1 c. canned or dried ap- Sugar to sweeten rice, 

ricots cream and apricots 

Cook the apricots with sugar and run them through a 
sieve. Whip the cream, sweeten and fold into the sweetened 
rice. Put apricots in bottom of mold. Cover with rice and 
cream mixture. Pack in equal parts of salt and ice and let 
etand 3 hours. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING ■ 

i box gelatin 2 tsp. vanilla 

I c. cold water 1 c. raisins 

1 pt sweet milk J lb. chopped almonds 
5 eggs I lb. finely crumbed 

% c. sugar macaroons 

Swell the gelatin in the cold water. Heat the milk t» 
a double boiler. Stir into it the yolks of eggs beaten light with 
the sugar. Dissolve the gelatin in the milk mixture. Remove 
from fire and, when partially cool, fold in the stiffly beaten 
white of eggs. Add vanilla, raisins, almonds and macaroons. 
Freeze in molds. 

STRAWBERRY ROLL 

Part I. — Strawberry Ice Cream 

2 c. cream i c. sugar 
1 c. strawberries 

Make strawberry ice cream. 



DESSERTS 168 

Part II. — Italian Meringue 

6 ibsp. syrup H egg whites 

1 tbsp. water % c. cream 

1 tsp. gelatin 1 tsp. vanilla 

Swell and dissolve Kelatln Add to cream and syrop. 
When it begins to thicken, pour slowly onto beaten wbit«s of 
eggs and continue beating until of consistency of whipped 
cream. Add vanilla. 

Line a round mold with Part I Fill center with Part 11 
Pack and let stand 3 hours. 

PROZESN CHOCOLATE 

Make chocolate as for beverage. Cool, freeze and serve 
with whipped cream. 



170 PRACTICAL COOKERY 



PRESERVING OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

The conservation of foods by canning, preserving, etc., 
depends upon sterilization and the exclusion of air. Steriliza- 
tion means destroying all living organisms. The air is filled 
with minute organisms — yeasts, bacteria and molds — all of 
which cause fermentation and decay. If the- food is freed fron 
such forms of life, and kept so, indefinite keeping is assured. 
By sterilization the food is made germ free; by the exclusion 
of air the entrance of other organisms is prevented. 

In canning, any proportion of sugar may be used or food 
may be canned without tke addition of. sugar. The amount of 
water required depends upon the amount of juice in the food. 

The canning of vegetables is a little more difficult than the 
canning of fruits. It may be because there is In the vegetables 
themselves a better food for the bacteria, which are destructive 
to such food, or it may be due to the fact that the bacteria 
destructive to vegetables produce spores which boiling tem- 
perature does not kill. It is therefore necessary to use inter- 
mittent sterlization or extreme heat. The former is a pro- 
longed process, one hour of boiling on each of three successive 
days, and often results In a soft, almost mushy, product. The 
second method, that of sterilizing in a pressure cooker at a 
temperature greater than that of boiling water. Is to be pre- 
ferred. 

The selection of fruits and vegetables is one of the most 
important steps in successful canning. All fruits and vege- 
tables should be freshly gathered and should be as nearly per- 
fect as possible. 

The preparation of the fruit or vegetables is the second 
important step. This work should be done in a clean, well 
aired kitchen, preparing only as much of the material to be 
canned as can be cooked while it still retains its color and 
crispness. Pared fruit will retain its color for a longer period 
of time if dropped into a bowl of cold water made slightly 



PRESERVING OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 171 

acid with lemon juice (1 tablespoonful to 1 quart of water). 
Fruit pared with a silver knife Is less likely to become dis- 
colored. 

Since air and water, as well as foods, contain bacteria and 
yeasts, and may contain mold spores, all utensils used in the 
process of preserving are liable to be contaminated with these 
organisms. For this reason all utensils must be sterilized, as 
■ well as foods. It Is also important that the jars and covers be 
in prefect condition and'completely stierilized. 

Preserving is the preservation of fruits in a thick syrup. 
The density of the syrup prevents the growth of the organisms 
that cause fermentation. Molds often grow on the surface 
and spoil the flavor, but they rarely cause fermentation. 

Pickling is the preservation of food in a salt or acid liquid. 
Spices are frequently added. 

There are several methods of canning; but the principle 
is the same in all methods: stewing, the fruit or vegetables 
before they are put into the jars (the open kettle method); 
or cooking the fruit and vegetables in the jars (the cold-pack 
method.) 

By the cold-pack method the food products are simply 
packed in their fresh and natural state in the jars or cans after 
blanching, if blanching is necessary. To the fruits, hot 'syrups 
or hot water is added and, to practically all the vegetables, hot 
water. Then the sterilization is done in jars after they are 
partially sealed. The products may be sterilized in a hot water 
bath or in a steam pressure cooker. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR OPEN-KETTLE METHOD 

To test jars. — Before using a jar for canning, it should be 
tested. This may be done by partly filling the jar with water, 
adjusting the cover and rubber, sealing and inverting the jar. 
IX the jar is imperfect, it will leak. 



172 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

To sterlize Jars, wash can and tops. Put on a rack in a 
pan. Cover with cold water Heat gradually and boil 15 min- 
utes. 

To fill and seal jars, drain water from the sterilized ]ar 
Place on a hot plate. Dip rubber in boiling water and place 
on jar. Fill to overflowing with cooked fruit. Cover and sea) 
at once. Invert the can and let it stand until cool. Label care- 
fully and put away in a dark place. Light has a chemfcal 
action on some foods and may destroy the color. 

GRAPB juice: 1 

Pick grapes off stems. Wash carefully. Mash or crush 
with wooden potato masher in granite dish. Put into a jelly 
bag and let drip into a crock. Put juice into upper part of 
double boiler and cook 30 minutes after it begins to steam 
Can In sterilized jars. 

GRAPE JirlCB II 

Pick grapes off stems and wash. Crush enough to have 
juice run. Put on to cook and let boil until seeds separate 
from pulp. Place in jelly bag and hang over crock Cook 
juice over direct heat or in double boiler. 

CANNED APPLES 

Wash, pare and core apples. Allow % their weight in 
sugar and 2% cupfuls of water to each pound of sugar Make 
a syrup. Cook apples in it until they are tender. Can accord- 
ing to directions. 

CANNED PEACHES 

Dip peaches in scalding water. Peel skin from peaches 
with silver knife. Cut in halves and stone. Follow directions 
fo^ canning apples. 

CANNED PEARS 

Wipe and pare fruit. Cook whole with stems left on; or 
remove stems, cut in quarters and core. Follow directions 
tor canning apples. 

CANNED BLACKBERRIES 

Pick over and wash berriee. Cook with small quantity of 



PRESERVING OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 17 8 

water until soft. Allow % cupful of sugar to 1 quart of fruit. 
Can according to directions given above. 

All small fruits may be canned in a similar manner. 

CANNED RHUBARB 

Remove skin and cut in 1-inch pieces. Put into a sterile 
Jar. Cover with water which has been boiled and cooled. Seal. 

Gooseberries or other strongly acid fruits may be canned 
in a similar manner. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 

Pick over, wash, drain and hull strawberries. Weigh. 
Make a syrup by boiling % their weight in sugar with water, 
allowing 1 cupful of water to each pound of sugar. Boll syrup 
5 minutes. Add berries, bring to boiling point. Lift berries 
from syrup and fill jars. Boil syrup 10 minutes and pour over 
berries. Seal. 

-All small fruits may be preserved in the same manner. 

PRESERVED PIIVEAPPI.E 

Remove skin and eyes, cut in %-inch slices and remove 
inside core. Cook with Vz the weight of sugar and a very 
small quantity of water, u^til the pineapple is transparent 
and the syrup is thick. Place the pineapple in jars and pour 
the syrup over it. Seal. 

ORANGE OR CITRUS MARMALADE 

1 grapefruit 1 lemon 

1 orange sugar 

Select fruit which is not over ripe. Put through food 
chopper. Let stand for 24 hours in 21/2 times its. bulk of 
water. Cook 10 minutes. Let stand 24 hours. Add sugar, 
pint for pint or pound for pound, and cook until it jellies. 
Orange and lemon may be used alone in proportion of one to 
one if desired. 



RHUBARB MARMALADE 

2 lbs. rhubarb i lb. sugar 

J lb. English walnuts 2 lemons 

Cut rhubarb in 1-inch slices. Boil with chopped nuts in 1 



174 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

enpfr.l of water until nuts are soft. Add sugar and thlnlr 
sliced lemons. Cook until syrup is thick. Fill jelly glasses. 
Seal. 

APPLE AND ftUINCE MARMALADB 

1 quince Sugar 

2 large apples 1 lemon rind (grated) 

Pare and core quince. Cut in very small pieces, cook in 
Just enough water to keep from burning. When the quince is 
nearly soft, pare, core and cut apples in small pieces and add 
to quince. Cook until soft enough to force through strainer. 
Measure, then return to fire with lemon and equal amount of 
sugar. Boil gently, stirring constantly, until it will not sprea'd 
when dropped on a saucer. Fill jelly glasses. Seal. 

CRANBERRY CONSERVE 

4 c. cranberries 3 lb. Bnglish walnuts 

% c. cold water (chopped) 

% c. boiling water 1 orange 

} lb. raisins (seeded and 3 c. sugar 

chopped) 
Pick over cranberries and wash. Add cold water to cover. 

cook until skins burst. Run through a sieve, add boiling wa- 
ter, raisins, orange which has been thinly sliced and cut into 
small pieces, and sugar Simmer until thick or about 20 
minutes. Add nuts. 

SPICED APPLE PICKLES 

8 apples 1 large stick cinnamon 

J c. brown- sugar WhDle cloves 

i c. vinegar 
Boil sugar, vinegar and cinnamon, broken in small pieces, 

for 5 minutes. Wash, pare, core and cut apples in eighths. 

Pierce each piece with a clove. Put into syrup and simmer 

until soft. The slower and longer the cooking, the better the 

color and flavor. Can according to directions. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHES 

"16 peaches 16 whole cloves 

1 lb. brown sugar i oz. cinnamon 

1 c. vinegar 

Dip peaches quickly in hot water Rub with towel to re- 
move skins. Pierce each peach with a clove. Follow direc- 
tions for spiced apples. 



PRESERVING OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 175 

SWCBT PICKLED PSARS 

Follow directions for sweet pickled peaches, using pears 
In place of peaches. 

SPANISH PICKLES 

1 pk. green tomatoes J oz. peppercorns 

4 onions 3 c. mustard seed 

1 c. salt 1 lb. brown sugar 

4 oz. whole cloves 4 green peppers 

i oz. whole allspice Cider vinegar 

Wash and slice tomatoes and onions. Sprinkle alternate 
layers of tomato and onion with salt. Let stand over night. 
Drain. Add chopped peppers, spices and sugar. Cover with 
vinegar Heat gradually to hoiling point. Boil 30 minutes. 
Can according to directions 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

Use equal quantities of cucumbers, green tomatoes, cauli- 
flower and small onions. Cover with boiling brine made from 
I cupful of salt to 1 quart of water Let stand 24 hours. Drain. 
Cover with fresh, boiling water. Let stand 30 minutes. Drain. 
Cover with mustard sauce made from flour, ground mustard, 
brown sugar and vinegar, using the following proportions. 1 
cupful of brown sugar, V4 pound of mustard, M pound of flour 
and 1 quart of vinegar Can according to directions 

CUCUMBER PICKLES 

2 qts cucumbers 2 red peppers 

2 (its cider vinegar 

Wash and wipe small, unripe cucumbers. Put into a stone 
jar. Cover with boiling brine made from 1 cupful of salt to 1 
quart of water Let stand 24 hours Heat to near boiling 
point. Drain. Wipe cucumbers and cover with fresh, cold 
water. Bring to boiling point. Drain. Cook cucumbers a 
few at a time for 10 minutes in vinegar boiled with the peppers. 
Can. following directions. Sugar and other spices may be 
added to the vinegar if desired. 



176 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

OLIVE OIL PICKLES 

Z qts. sliced cucumbers i tsp black pepper 

J c whole mustard } c. olive oil 

J c sugar 3 o. cider vinegar 

i fsp celery seed 
Wash, wipe and slice cucumbers. Cover with weak brine. 

Let stand over night. Drain. Fill the jars with cucumbers. 

Add spices and sugar to oil and vinegar. Bring to boiling 

point and pour over cucumbers. Seal 

APPLE CHUTNEY 

12 sour apples i c. currant or cranberry 

1 large onion jelly 

3 green peppers 2 c. sugar 

1 red pepper 5 c. lemon Juice 

1 c chopped ralslna 1 tbsp. brown ginger 

1 pt vinegar 1 tbsp. salt 

i tbsp. cayenne 

Chop apples, onion and peppers fine, add vinegar and jelly 
and let simmer 1 hour Stir often Add other ingredients, 
then cook another hour Can according to directions. 

INDIAN SAUCE 

6 large ripe tomatoes 1 medium-sized pepper, 

6 apples chopped 

{ qts cider vinegar 3 medium-sized onions, 

I lb seeded raisins chopped 

) c salt 2 tbsp mustard % 

1 lb brown sugar 1 tbsp. ground ginger 

Wipe tomatoes and apples. Cut in pieces. Add all other 

ingredients except spices. Boil 1 hour. Force through a sieve 

Add spices and boil until mixture Is as thick as catsup. Can 

according to directions. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

1 pic. ripe tomatoes 1 tbsp. celery seed 

i f salt 1 tbsp. ground cinnamon 

i lb sugar 5 tbsp. ground cloves 

1 tsp. cayenne 1 qt. cider vinegar 
1 tsp ground mace 
Cook tomatoes till tender Force through sieve and cook 

till of right consistency Can according to directions. 



preserving of fruits and vegetables i7t 
grape: catsup 

X qts. ripe grapes 1 tbsp cinnamon 

Vinegar to cover 1 tbsp. cloves 

1 0. sugar 1 tbsp. allspice 

Cook grapes and vinegar until grapes are soft Rub 
through a sieve. Add sugar and spices. Cook slowly uQt,ll of 
right consistency. Can according to directions. 



178 PRACTICAL COOKBBT 



JELLY 

The process of Jelly making seems simple, but k Is 
frequently attended by uncertain results because the under- 
lying principles are not understood There are several fac- 
tors to be considered in the process, and it is the understand- 
ing or misunderstanding of these that leads to success or 
failure. 

Fruit juices which contain a certain amount of acid and 
pectin — the jelly making substances — are the only ones wkich 
will make a good jelly If the fruit juice contains pedin but 
is lacking in acid, lemon juice or some other acid fruit juice 
may be added. If pectin is lacking, it may be supplied by us- 
ing apple juice, the white part of orange or lemon peel or 
grated raw carrot Since there is more pectin in slightly un- 
der-ripe fruit than in very ripe fruit, dead ripe fruit should 
not be used alone to make a firm jelly 

Apples, currants, grapes, gooseberries, barberries and 
oranges are all rich in pectin and also contain enough acid to 
make good jelly Quinces need a small amount of acid added; 
strawberries, cherries, peaches, rhubarb and pineapples may 
be made into jelly if pectin solution or apple juice is added. 
Combinations of fruit juices may be used to make good jellies, 
for instance, plums and crab apple, orange and rhubarb, apple 
and mint, etc. Fruit juices may be bottled and used to make 
jelly as it is needed Combination jellies are more readily 
made from the bottled juice. 

Another important consideration is the proportion of su- 
gar to the juice A given volume of juice contains a certain 
quantity of pectin In solution and this quantity of pectin must 
bear a definite relation to the proportion of sugar Up to this 
definite amount the texture of the jelly produced more nearly 
approaches the ideal, but beyond the definite proportion the 
jelly is Increasingly syrupy, until it finally fails to hold to- 
gether at all and a gummy mass is the result. JBzperlence and 
exercise of judgment are necessary to determine the correct 



JELLY 17,9 

amount ol sugar to be used. If fruits are gathered after a rain, 
or if much water is added, the amount of pectin will be pro- 
portionally less and the proportion of sugar must also be di- 
minished. Experiments seem to indicate that the correct pro- 
portion of sugar to juice varies from three-fourths of a volume 
to one volume of sugar for one volume of juice. If, in making 
the pectin test, the pectin precipitates in a solid mass, allow 1 
c. sugar to each cup of fruit juice; if the precipitate is loose or 
if there is very little of it, % c. sugar to each cup of juice may 
be used. It is better to use too little rather than too much 
sugar. 

The time during the process when the sugar should be 
addied to the juice is also important. Experiments seem to in- 
dicate that to add it near either the beginning or the end of the 
process is likely to result in crystallization of the sugar If 
added at the beginning of the process, the sugar is changed by 
the action of the acid into two simple sugars, one of which is 
apt to crystallize. If added near the enil of the process, the 
original sugar may crystallize. If added midway in the pro- 
cess, the sugar is only partially changed and is less likely to 
crystallize. 

Experiments show that there is no difference In the tex- 
ture, taste or appearance of jelly made from cane or beet 
sugar if these are equally pure. 

TO TEST FOR PE«TIN 

Whether or not pectin is present in a juice may be ascer- 
tained by adding one tablespoon of juice to an equal amount 
of wood alcohol If pectin is present a gelatinous mass will ap- 
pear in the liquid, which may be gathered up on a spoon 

TO STERILIZE GLASSES 

The process is the same as for sterilizing jars. 

TO FILL AND TO SEAL 

Fill the glasses. When jelly is firm, pour a layer of malted 
paraffin over the top. Adjust the covers Label and set away 
in a dry place. 



180 practical cookery 

apple: jblly 

Wipe, quarter and core the apples. Cover with cold wa- 
ter. Heat slowly and simmer until the apples are reduced to a 
pulp. Drain through a double thickness of cheesecloth or a 
jelly bag. Measure and allow % amount of sugar. Boil juice 
15 minutes. Add the sugar heated in the warming oven and 
•ontinue boiling 10 minutes. Skim. Fill glasses. Seal. 
CRAB apple: je:i.l.y 

Follow directions for apple jelly. 

SMALL. FRUIT JEILLY 

Green or ripe grapes, currants, cranberries, raspberries, 
blackberries, etc., may be used. 

Pick over, wash and drain fruit. Cook until juice is ex- 
tracted from fruit. Follow directions for apple jelly. 

CRANBERRY AND RAISIN JEILLY 

i c. raisins IJ c. cold water 

2 c. sugar 4 c. cranberries 

Prepare fruit. Add water- to raisins and cook slowly 10 
minutes. Add cranberries. Boil 15 minutes, strain through 
sieve and add sugar. Reheat, cooking longer if necessary to 
jell. Fill jelly glasses and seal. 

white; grape: and quince: je:lly 

2 lbs. grapes i apple 
i quince Sugar 

Pare, core and quarter the quince and apple. Cook in 
water until tender. Wash, stem and mash grapes. Cook un- 
til seeds separate from the pulp. Strain juice from grapes and 
add to the water in which the quinces were cooked. Follow 
directions for making apple jelly. 

APPLB HINT JS;llY 

4 0. apple Juice 1 c. mint — crushed leaves 

3 c. sugar and stems 

Green vegetable coloring 
Cook apple Juice and mint together for 20 minutes and 
strain. Reheat to the boiling point, add sugar and stir until 
sngar is dissolved. Boil until the mixture jells on the spoon. 
Color a delicate green and pour Into hot. sterilized glasses. 



JELL.T 181 



APPLE PL,IJM JE:L.I^Y 



3 c. apple juice 4 c. sugar 

3 c. plum juice 

Prick plums, add a little cold water and cook until the 
fruit is soft. Squeeze and then strain the juice. Mix fruit 
juices and boil 20 minutes, add sugar, stir until sugar is dis- 
solved and boil until mixture jells on the spoon. Pour into 
hot, sterilized glasses. 

41II1VCE: je:i.i.y 

Wash quinces, cut in quarters, cover with cold water and 
cook until soft. Strain and allow % c. lemon juice to each 
quart of quince juice. Test for pectin and finish the same as 
apple jelly. 

(Quinces are rich in pectin but lacking in acid and will 
not m»ke a good jelly unless acid in some form is added to the 
iuio*.) 



182 PRACTICAL COOKERY 



CLEANSING AGENTS 

HARD SOAP 

Empty the contents of a can of lye into a stone jar. Pour 
over it 2% pints of cold water and stir until lye dissolves. Set 
*side until the temperature is not over 80° F or 26%° C. 
Melt 5 % pounds of clean grease, tallow or lard and set aside 
»ntil the temperature is 120° F or 49° C Slowly pour dis- 
solved lye into the grease, stir until lye and grease are thor- 
oughly combined and mixture drops from stirrer like honey 
Stir slowly, but not too long, or you may separate the lye — from 
5 to 16 minutes is enough, according to grease and weather 
Pour into a mold, set away for a day or two, empty out and 
cut up as desired. 

JAVEI,I,E WATER 

1 )b. sal soda dlssolvea in i lb. chloride of time 

1 qt. boiling water 1 pt. cold water 

Mix thoroughly. Let stand for several hours. Pour off 
dear liquid. Bottle for use. Keep in dark, eool plaoe.. 
Jarelle water is used to take out stains or to bleach. 



ABDITIONAL RECIPES 



184 PRACTICAL COOKERY 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 185 



186 PRACTICAL' COOK&RT 



AlibiTldN^L ftfeCIPES 187 



188 PRACTICAL, COOKBRT 



ADDITION All RECIPES 189 



X^O. PRACTICAL COOKBRT 



.ADDITIONAL RECIPES \ 191 



192 PRACTICAL COOKE3RY 



" 'Etiquette' is the name given 
to the rules of society, and so- 
ciety is a game which all men 
play. If you play it well, you 
win. If you play it ill, you lose. 
The prize is a certain sort of 
happiness, without which no hu- 
man being is ever quite satis- 
fied." 



THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE 
OF THE TABLE 



GOOD MANNERS— WHY? 

For every age and for every condition, good manners pro- 
vide helpful equipment To the young man or the young 
■woman, a knowledge of correct usage gives self-possession and 
charm. True courtesy is exhibited in simple, natural, sincere 
manners. Conventional rules are not arbitrary, they have 
grown up little by little during hundreds of years, just as the 
common law of our courts has grown. These rules will change 
but it does not follow that we may underrate or ignore them. 
Their underlying principle is consideration for others. 

On proper table service, much of the comfort, cheerful- 
ness and refinement of the family depends. Lavishness and 
perfection in the preparation of food will never compensate 
for poor arrangements and poor service in the dining room, 
The Iresf order and yet the greatest freedom should exist. 
Table manners and table service are an excellent test of the re- 
flnexMent of a family and of a people. 

While there are a tew definite rules which are followed la 
practically all homes, yet comfort and convenience often dic- 
tate changes in formal rules and the personality of the mis- 
tress of the house should be felt in all the appointments of her 
table, both in the intimacy of her family and on more formal 
occaeions 

DINNER ETIQUETTE 

A dinner invitation requires immediate acceptance or 
declination Only extreme illness or great calamity justifies 
the breaking of a dinner engagement 

It is incumbent upon dinner guests to be prompt. The 
dinaer hour is mentioned in the invitation. Guests are ex- 
pected to arrive from five to fifteen minutes before the hour 

197 



198 THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE 

iB order to greet the host and hostess and one another It one 
is prevented by circumstances beyond control from being on 
time, he should take his place quietly, with a word of apology 
to the hostess. 

Conversation at the table should be carried on in a low, 
well-modulated voice Special effort should be made to in- 
clude one's neighbors at table in conversation, which will be 
of interest to all. Loud talking or a tendency to monopolize 
the conversation are an indication of bad manners. 

A guest should never rush away immediately after din- 
ner, but should tarry for at least twenty minutes or longer if 
it seems best. On withdrawing, take leave of your host and 
hostess and express your appreciation of their hospitality It 
is not necessary to take formal leave of the other guests, a 
general farewell being sufficient. 

After a formal dinner, one should call upon the hostess 
within two weeks. 



TABLE ETIQUETTE 

Seating Arrangements. — It is extremely difficult to lay 
down arbitrary rules for the seating of guests, since the matter 
is governed largely 'by the number of guests and degree of 
formality of the meal. The guest of honor, it a lady, is usual- 
ly seated at the right of the host; if a gentleman, at the right 
of the hostess. At a ladies' luncheon, she sits at the right of 
her hostess. At public dinners, a lady is seated at the right 
of her escort. 

At a formal dinner, guests do not enter the dining room 
in a promiscuous manner. The hostess carefully arranges her 
gaests so that her company may be a success, using place cards 
to, indicate the seating arrangement unless the company be 
very small. Each gentleman gives his arm to the lady whom 
he is to escort. Where place cards are used, the host and the 
lady whom he accompanies usually lead the way, the hostess 
and her escort bringing up the rear. On less formal occasions, 
the hostess may find it more convenient to enter flrst in order 



GENERAL DEPORTMENT 199 

to direct the seating ot tlie guests. It the hostess comes into 
the dining room last, she is seated, for convenience, near the 
door by which she enters. The mistress of the house some- 
times prefers to sit facing the pantry or Ititchen door so that 
she may better diiect the service oi the table. When there is 
no waitress, she naturally sits at the end ot the table nearer 
the pantry. 

In planning a formal dinner, it is well to keep in mind 
that only certain numbers can be seated at the table without 
bringing two ladies or two gentlemen side by side. Only six, 
ten, fourteen, eighteen, and successive numbers obtained by 
addition of four can be seated with ladies and gentlemen al- 
ternating. It is well to mingle the guests so that those who 
come together, for example husband and wife, will not be 
seated side by side at the table 

Stand beside or back ot your chair at the table until the 
hostess gives the signal to be seated. The gentlemen seat the 
ladies at the table before taking their places. One should 
seat himself from the left and rise to the left At the end of 
the meal, wait for the hostess to rise as a signal for others to 
do Ukewlse 

GENERAL DEPORTMENT 

Do not begin conversation at the table until after grace, 
or until you «ee that grace is not to be said. 

The proper attitude at the table is an erect one. One should 
not slide down in the chair, rest one's arm on the table, crowd, 
or discommode one's neighbor 

Should the guest be in doubt as to what to do, he should 
glance at the hostess and adopt her method, whatever it may be. 

If one is unfortunate enough to have an accident at the 
table, he should express his regrets. The hostess should cour- 
teously accept the apologies offered and promptly turn the 
conversation , 

One should eat slowly and quietly, never talking while 
food is in the mouth. 

Care should be taken to finish a course at about the sur.io 



200 THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE 

time with the others at the table. 

Salt should never be put upon the table-cloth but on the 
side of a dish — preferably the bread-and-butter plate — unleSB 
individual salts are provided.' 

Break bread into small pieces, spreading each as eaten; 
do not cut it. Bread is never laid on the table-cloth, esces* 
as it is served with soup at formal dinners. 

One should wait until all at the table are served with a 
course before beginning to eat 

It is never permissible to use bread to obtain the last bit 
of gravy or sauce; rather ask to be served a second time. 

Never tip the soup plate or break bread or crackers into 
the soup 

In passing a sugar bowl; a glass, or any other dish with- 
out handles, be careful not to allow the fingers to rest within 
the dish. In passing a dish with handles, the handle should be 
turned toward the person receiving the dish. 

If your preference is consulted as to a food, express some 
preference, whether the matter be trivial to you or not. as 
thi.<5 will aid the one who serves. 

In case yoa do not care for a course, you should not re- 
fuse it. Receive it and eat what part of it you desire, trying 
to eat some. If you wish, leave it untouched but do not give 
the impression of being neglected A little more attention to 
conversation on your part may prevent those about you from 
noticing that you do not eat of a certain course 

It is quite proper to take the last helping of any dish 
which may be passed to you, for to refrain I'ooks as if you 
doubted the supply 

At a formal meal, the second helping of a dish is never 
offered and should never be asked for. At an informal dinner 
party, it is not out of place to accept a second helping when 
one is offered, unless it would appear to delay the service. 

In offering to serve any one at the table, use some such 
phrase as , "May I help you?" "May I offer you?" "Let me 
give you." 



GENERAL DEPORTMENT 201 

It it Is necessary to ask for anything during the meal, one 
should take the opportunity to sreak quietly to the waitress 
when she is near. 

Never leave the table without being excused, except when 
JBOU are serving as waitress. 

In using the finger bowl, only the finger tips, and those of 
one hand at a time, need be dipped in the water. The napkin 
is used to dry the water from the finger tips. 

Toothpicks, like toothbrushes, should be used only in- 
side of one's room. 

Attention should be given to directing the conversation 
to topics which will be of interest to all. Arguments and un- 
pleasant topics should be avoided or, if accidentally intro- 
duced, the conversation should be changed to pleasanter sub- 
jects as soon as possible. 

Tidiness of personal appearance is never at a hlESrer 
premium than at the dining table. Soiled hands, negligee dress, 
shirt sleeves and disheveled hair are inexcusable. 

Elderly persons or persons from different localities are 
likely to use customs different from the established ways of the 
day or the locality. Manners change several times even within 
a generation and older persons may be merely following the 
customs which they were taught. Local forms of etiquette 
should not be criticized or ridiculed. - 

The Use of the Napkin: — It is better to spread the napkin 
half Jinfolded upon the knees r.ather than to spread it out en- 
tirely. 

At the close of a single meal in the house of a friend, 
do not fold the napkin but place it loosely beside your plate. 
If you are to be a guest for mare than one meal, observe the 
hostess; note what disposition she makes of her napkin an* 
follow her example. Do not lift the napkin above the table 
while folding it. 

At a formal dinner, when the roll is in a fold of the nap- 
kin, be careful to remove the roll and lay it on the table-cloth, 
to the left of the plate, before unfolding the napkin. 



202 THE ETIQUETTE AND SEP.VICE OF THE TABLE 

The Use of the Knife and Fork- — Hold the knife and fork 
lightly, not allov/ing the fingers to touch the blade of the knife 
OT the tines of the fork. 

Either the knife or the fork is held in the right hand when 
in use, except that the fork is held in the left hand to assist 
in cutting In the latter case, the fork is held with the tines 
down, but otherwise the tines are always held up. 

When the fork is laid upon the plate, either in passing 
the plate for a second helping or at the end of the course, the 
tines of the fork should be up. 

Do not gesticulate with the knife or the fork, or hold them 
upright on the table. 

When not in use, lay the knife and the fork side by side 
across the right side of the plate. 

When a plate is sent back for a second portion, care 
sijould be taken to place the knife and the fork straight on the 
plate and a little to one side, in order that there may be no 
danger of their slipping off and that part of the plate may be 
ready to receive the food 

Never cut salad with the knife but break it with the 
lork, using a piece of bread or cracker to assist the fork if 
necessary 

It is »ot permissible to use anything but a small piece 
• f bread or cracker in helping to put food upon the fork. 

The fork may be used to convey fish bones, pieces of 
gristle or other inedible substances back to the plate. 

The fork alone should be used for most "made dishes," 
vegetables, soft cheese, some fruits, and puddings when not too 
soft The harder varieties of cheese may be broken with the 
fork and placed on small pieces of bread or crackers. A knife 
may be provided for this purpose, especially where cheese is 
served with crackers at the end of a dinner. 

Either a fork or spoon may be used with ice cream. For 
brick ice cream, the fork is preferable. 

Never hold food on the fork while you are talking; hav- 
ing once picked the food up, eat it promptly. 



GENERAL DEPORTMENT 203 

The Use of the Spoon: — A spoon is used only for food too 
soft to be conveniently handled with a fork 

Dip the spoon away from yourself when serving or when 
taking soup. 

Sip from tlie side of the spoon. 

Tea, coffee, or any other beverage should not be sipped 
from a spoon but should be drunk from the cup. The spooa 
is'for the purpose of stirring and of sipping to test flavor and 
temperature. 

No hot drink should be poured from the cup into the 
saucer 

Never leave the spoon standing in the cup or glass; when 
not in use, it should rest on the saucer or dessert plate which 
is provided for this purpose. 

Foods Eaten from the Fingers. — It is permissible to eat 
•rackers, olives, pickles, celery, radishes, corn on the cob, 
most raw fruits, salted nuts, crystallized fruits and bonbons 
from the fingers. Apples, pears and peaches are served with 
a knife and aire quartered, peeled, and cut into small pieces 
before eating. Cherries, plums and grapes are eaten one by 
ane, the stones or seeds being removed with the fingers and 
laid on the plate 



2*4 THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OF THE TABWi 



ARRANGEMENT OF THE TABLE 

General Arrangement 

Laying the Cloth: — Dust the table. Lay the silence cloth, 
which is usually of felt or of double-faced cotton material 
made for the purpose. It should have a drop of about three 
inches. Fit it over the table tightly, folding the corners, if 
the table is square, and pinning them underneath the table. 
The purposes of the silence cloth are three; to prevent noise, 
to protect the table from heat and to improv* the ap?earance 
of the linen. Next lay the table-cloth, unfolding it carefully on 
the table to avoid creases. Place the cloth upon the tabfe so 
that the center length-wise fold comes exactly in the middle 
of the table and the four corners are at equal distances from 
the floor. The cloth should extend over the table top at least 
a quarter of a yard at each end. Table-cloths should be 
ironed with as tew folds as possible and care should be taken 
to refold them in the same creases when clearing the table 
after meals, so that they may be kept as fresh as possible. 

For breakfast, luncheon or supper, table-runners or a 
eenterpiece with small doilies are very frequently usedi The 
popularity ol this custom is due not only to the saving of 
laundry which it effects, but also to the attractive appearance 
M lends to the table. If the centerpiece and plate doilies are 
sufficiently large, it is not necessary to have many small doilies 
to place under side dishes and food. Where the table is used 
bare for a formal luncheon. It is necessary to have small doi- 
Mes under all the articles to be set upon the table such as 
glasses, cups and saucers, bread-and-butter plates and dishes 
containing food. The table should be protected by placing 
mats of felt or of asbestos covered with linen under hot dishes 
or by standing them upon plates. 

Decorations: — Special effort should be made to have, at 
all times, some attractive decoration for the center of the table. 
This varies in elaborateness with the formality of the meal 
served but should always be low enough not to obstruct tb« 



LAYING THE COVERS 20C 

view acroas ttie table. It should be placed on a centerpiece, 
arranged exactly In the center of the table, with the threads 
«t linen running in the same direction as the threads of the 
tablecloth. Cut flowers should be of a color harmonious with 
the appointments of the table and room. They should be 
loosely arranged so as to retain the beauty of the individual 
flower. Vases should be simple in form and of glass or pot- 
tery of suitable color. A small fern or other low plant makes 
a simple and more permanent decoration. Many other attrac- 
tive table decorations can be arranged by the exercise of some 
ingenuity and at little or no expense. 

The use of candles in the daytime is permissible only 
when the lighting is inadequate or the day is dark. At for- 
mal dinners and receptions, candles often form part of the 
decorations and, if used, should be placed symmetrically on the 
table. 

Cards: — Place cards are customarily used at formal meals 
fbr convenience in seating the guests and are usually placed 
upon the napkin. These cards may be plain and small, wit^ 
only the names of the guests upon them, or they may be larger, 
with suitable decorations. The more elaborately decorated 
cards are often placed in front of the cover. 

Menu cards may be used only at public dinners. They are 
placed upon the napkin. The program for after-dinner 
speeches is often combined with the menu in attractively bound 
booklets, which serve as place cards. 

Chairs: — Place the chairs so that the front edge of each 
ehair touches or is just below the edge of the tablecloth. The 
•hair should be close enough to the table so that little move- 
ment is required when persons are seated or rise from tke 
iKble. 

LAYING THE COVEES 
The plate, silver, glasses -and napkin to be used by each 
p»-sQn are called a "cover." 

Twenty inches of space is the smallest distance which 
should be aUowed for each cover and twenty-five or t'cirty 
Riches is better. Covers should be as symmetrically arranged 



206 THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE - 

as possible. Place all the silver and dishes required for one 
cover as closely together as possible vi'ithout crowding, as the 
appearance of the table is much improved if the covers are 
compactly laid. 

The StJver:-pThe silver should be placed about one-half 
inch from and at right angles to the edge of the table. Knives, 
forks and spoons are placed in the order of their use, those 
first used on the outside, vi^ith the exception of the dinner 
knife and fork, which are always placed immediately to the 
right and left of the plate. 

Place the knives at the right of the plate with the cutting 
edges turned inward; at the right of the knives, lay the spoons 
with the bowls up; place the forks at the left of the plate with 
the tines up. The small fork used for oysters or clams on th€ 
shell is an exception to this rule, being placed at the extreme 
right of the cover. 

When the table is laid for a small supper party, or similar 
occasion when a knife is not needed, the fork is substituted 
for the knife on the right side of the plate with spoons as re- 
quired. 

The butter spreader is usually laid across the upper right 
hand side of the bread-and-butter plate, with the blade turned 
toward the center of the plate. It is sometimes placed with the 
other knives at the right of. the plate but this practice is fol- 
lowed chiefly in public places. 

Silver for the dessert is not put on when the cover is laid, 
except where the meal is served without a maid. Never lay 
covers with more than three forks. If a dinner is sufficiently 
elaborate to require more than this number of forks, the silver 
for the later courses should be quietly placed at the covers 
just before the course is served, or brought in on the plate. If 
it is necessary to wash silver for use in the later courses, care 
should be taken to see that it is chilled before returning it to 
th« table. Extra silver needed during the meal should be 
brought in on the serving tray. 

Serving silver may he placed on the table immediately be- 
fore the dish to b» served is brought in or may be brought in 



LAYING THE COVERS 207 

with the dish to be served. At an informal meal, serving silver 
for the first course may be placed on the table ready tor use 
when the table is laid; 

The Service Plate: — In formal service, a plate about ten 
inches in diameter is placed at each cover, one inch from the 
•edge of the table, when the table is laid. Upon this service plate 
are stood the dishes containing the early courses of the meal, 
such as fruit, oysters and soup. It is not removed until it is 
exchanged for the heated plate upon which the first hot course 
after the soup is served. This custom has arisen because of the 
fact that, on formal occasions, it Is considered good form never 
to leave the guest without a plate before him until the table is 
cleared for dessert. 

The Napkin: — The napkin is placed at the left of the fork 
with the loose edges parallel to the edge of the table and to the 
forks, so that the embroidered initial, if there is one, will be 
in the right position. Dinner napkins should be folded square 
and placed flat upon the table. Smaller napkins used for 
luncheons are usually folded in three-cornered shape and 
placed at the left of the forks. Fantastic arrangements of the 
napkin are never in good taste. In formal service, a roll, bread- 
stick, or piece of bread cut two or three inches long and one 
and one-half inches thick is frequently slipped between, the 
folds of the napkin but in sight. 

The Glass: — Place the glass at the tip of the knife, or 
slightly to the right. 

The Bread-and-butter Plate: — Place the bread-and-butter 
plpte at the tip of the fork, or slightly to the left. At formal 
dinners, bread-and-butter plates are usually ommitted, since 
butter is not served, but some hostesses prefer to have them 
pla,ced on the table as a convenient receptable for bread, olives, 
celery, nuts, etc. 

Salt and Pepper: — If individual salt and pepper dishes are 
used, place directly in front of each cover. For each two per- 
sons, allow, if possible, one salt and pepper set placed between 
the covers. 

Individual Nut or Bonbon Dishes:- — Individual dishes for 



208 THK ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OP THE TABLE 

nuts or bonbons are sometimes used and are placed in frosit 
of tbe cover. They should be replenished from the side during 
the meal. 

Finger Bowls:-\-lt finger bowls are placed when the table 
is laid, which is done only when they are needed with the first 
course, they are placed on a doily directly in front of the cov- 
er. They may be brought in after the last course on a plate 
with a doily on it, which is placed directly in front of the 
guest, or they may be brought in on a doily upon the dessert 
plate, tlie doily and finger bowl being removed by the guest 
and placed in front of the cover when the plate is used for 
dessert. 

DUTY OF A WAITRESS 

The undivided attention of a waitress should be directed 
toward making the service of meals as prompt, orderly amd 
unobtrusive as possible. She should learn to move quietly 
and deftly, and to be observing and prompt in her service. 
Cleanliness of person and tidiness of dress are absolute es- 
Ukntials. The apiearance of a waitress is greatly improved 
if she stands erect and steps lightly and quickly. Further- 
more, she should be careful to observe the following rules: 

Close doors without noise. 

Handle silver and dishes in a quiet manner 

Carry dishes without allowing them to touch the dress. 

In handling plates, never allow the thumb to be placed 
over the rim. 

Have in readiness suitable dishes and silver for the ser- 
vice at each course. 

Have the dishes to be used in serving hot foods heated, 
and those for cold foods chilled. 

Never serve heated foods lukewarm. 

To prevent their cooling, vegetables are usually served 
in covered dishes? 

Certain foods such as toast and baked potatoes may be 
covered with a napkin or doily 

Arrange food in dishes of suitable Blae and shape, so that 



DUTY OF A WAITRESS 209 

rt shall be well balanced but not heaped or crowded. 

See that the carving knife is properly sharpened before 
offered tor use, It should never be sharpened at the table. 

See that the dining room is properly ventilated and 
warmed 

Fill the water glasses with cold water immediately before 
the meal Is served. Avoid filling the glasses to the brim. 

Place the butter on the bread-and-butter plates after fill- 
iag the glasses, if butter is to be served with the first course. 

Be absolutely certain that everything is in readiness be- 
fore announcing a meal. 

Place and remove everything from the left, except dishes 
lor beverages which belong on the right side, such as water 
glasses and coCee cups. 

When placing or removing one plate always use the left 
hand. If removing and placing at the same time, use the right 
hand for removing and the left hand for placing. 

Food which is passed by 'the waitress should always be 
offered from the left of the person served, to permit him to 
help himself with the right hand 

The waitress should look after refilling the glasses and 
replenishing supplies of such food as bread, butter and rolls. 
Refill glasses without lifting from the table. If necessary to 
bring a glass out near the edge of the table for convenience 
in refilling, it should be moved by placing the hand near the 
bottom, never over the top. 

When offering any dish containing food hold it on the 
left hand, using the right hand, to steady the dish, if necessary, 
and having the serving silver placed on the dish at the side 
convenient for the person served. It should be held at a 
height and distance convenieat to the person served Have a 
squarely folded dinner napkin on the palm of the left hand 
under the dish. This is called a "service napkin." The 
service napkin should be used only under dishes containing 
food to be served. It is not used in placing or removing 

-14 



210 THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE 

plates, or in removing from the table dishes containing food 

Serving utensils for use in the first course may be placed 
upon the table, those needed for later courses should be in 
readiness upon the serving table Provide a liberal supply 
of serving implements, as it is often much easier either to 
serve a dish from the table or to help oneself to a dish passed 
by the waitress, if an extra fork or spoon is at hand to separ 
ate the food and to steady it in transferring to the plate 

The serving tray is used for passing and removing two or 
more small articles such as cream pitcher and sugar bowl 
salts and peppers and extra pieces of flat silver A linen doily 
of suitable size and shape should be placed on the tray to keep 
articles from slipping 

Food should be placed on the table, passed and removed 
in the order of its importance in the course 

In clearing the table for another course, dishes should be 
removed in the following order serving dishes, used plates 
and silver, any china and silver provided for the course but 
not used. Bread-and-butter^ plates are left upon the table 
until after the salad course. ■ At an informal meal where the 
salad is served on individual plates with the meat course, 
plates should be removed as follows: first, course plate (right 
hand) and bread and butter plate (left hand) together from the 
left side, and then salad plate (right hand) from the right side 

When clearing the table for dessert, all relishes, salts, 
peppers and bread-and-butter plates should be removed and 
the crumbs brushed from the table, using a small folded nap 
kin with a plate or tray, and crumbing each cover from the left 
side. 

For further details of service, see descriptions of service 
for formal, informal and family dinners, pages 212 to 223 

When two maids are employed, the waitress Is usually ex 
pected to perform the following duties in addition to serving 
the meals 

To take proper care of the dining room and pantry. 

To wash the table dishes. 



STYLES OP SERVICE 211 

To care for table linen, silver, glass, china, cutlery and 
brasses. 

To prepare butter balls, salad, sandwiches, fruit, relishes 
and beverages. 

STYLES OF SERVICE 

Russian. — This style of service is commonly used only for 
formal dinners and luncheons, since all the responsibility of 
supplying food to those lat the table falls upon the attendants. 
It should not be carried out in its entirety, unless there is more 
than one waitress for each eight covers. Nothing appears up- 
on the table except the table decorations, a few dishes of bon- 
bons and the articles which compose the individual covers. 
The empty plates for each course are placed and all the food 
Is passed, attractively arranged on suitable dishes from which 
each person helps himself; or each course may be arranged on 
individual plates which are placed before the guests, although 
this is not the best form of the service. 

English: — This form of service allows personal attention 
on the part of those sitting at the head and at the foot of the 
table to the needs of those about them, and is the most practical 
form to use where there is no maid. All the food for one 
course is placed upon the table at one time and is served by 
the host, hostess, or some other member of the family. The 
hostess serves the soup, salad and dessert; the host carves 
and serves the fish and meat. Vegetables may be served by 
the hostess or others at the table. Except relishes, bread, but- 
ter, and such other articles as pertain alike to all courses up 
to the dessert, only one course appears at a time upon the table. 

Compromise: — A combination of the two kinds of service 
described above results in the mixed or compromise form of 
service, which is perhaps the one most widely used. It is the 
form of service usually employed for informal luncheons, small 
dinners, and in families where there is only one maid. Such 
dishes as the salad and the dessert, which present an attrac- 
tive appearance and can be quickly served, are often served 
by the hostess, and the njeat or fish may be served from the 



212 THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE 

table by the host, after the English style. The soup is usually 
placed and the vegetables passed by the waitress, while the 
salad is also frequently served arranged on individual plates, 
according to the Russian style of service. 

FORMAL DINNERS 

Courses: — A formal dinner usually consists of the follow- 
ing courses in the order named' 

Soup 

Fish 

Entjr6e 

Roast and vegetables 

Salad 

Ices 

Fruit 

Coffee 
These may be added to or diminished, if desired. For example, 
one or more courses such as oysters or clams on the half shell, 
fruit cocktail, oyster cocktail, canap6, or fruit often precede the 
soup course. A second entree or a game course may be added, 
and frozen punch served after the roast and before the game. 
On the other hand, either the fish or entree may be omitted 
and only one dessert course offered, reducing the number of 
courses to six. Although excessive multiplication of courses in 
a dinner is novf considered bad form, it could scarcely be 
termed a formal dinner if contracted to less than five courses. 
Laying the Table: — Follow directions for laying the table 
given on pages 204 to 208. 

Service: — A formal dinner should be served after the Rus- 
sian style of service, as described above. Service plates are 
used and the plate for one course is exchanged for that for the 
next course, so that the guest is never without a plate in front 
of him except when the table is cleared and crumbed before 
the dessert course. All plates are brought in and removed one 
at a time. All dishes containing food to be offered to the 
guests are carried on the left hand on a folded napkin. This 



FORMAL. DINNERS 213 

service napkin Is not used when exchanging plates or remov- 
ing dishes containing food. 

(See also rules for the waitress on pages 208 to 210.) 
Order of Service: — At a formal dinner the hostess 
is served first in order to enable her to see that each dish has 
been properly provided with serving silver and to allow the 
guests to observe how any unusual dish should be served. The 
other ladies are then served, beginning with the one seated at 
the right of the host, and progressing in order to the right ; the 
gentlemen are then served in the same order, beginning with 
the one at the right of the hostess If the party is a large 
one. It is customary to serve first the hostess, then the lady at 
the right of the host, then the next person to the right, whether 
man or woman, in regular order around the table until all are 
served > This makes the host the last one to be served, which 
is the usual arrangement. 

If there are two waitresses, one may begin with the lady 
on the right of the host and serve to the right, while the second 
starts with the hostess and serves to the right, ending with the 
host. Many hostesses prefer to have one waitress serve in suc- 
cession to the right about the whole taljle, having the second 
waitress follow immediately after with the next dish to be 
served. Service should be as prompt as possible, in order that 
the food of the first served may not become cold before all are 
served. 

DETAILED DIRECTIONS FOB SERVING 

All service is by the waitress 

Have service plates at each cover 

If cold, the first course is placed on the table before the 
guests enter the dining room but soup should be brought in 
after the guests are seated 

If fruit is used for the first course and finger bowls are 
provided, the two dishes should be removed together, the plate 
with the right hand and the finger bowl with the left one. If 
only a plate is required for the first course, it should be re- 
moved with the left hand. 



214 THE ETIQUETTE ANP SERVICE OF THE TABLB 

Service plates should be left on until exchanged for the 
first hot plate. 

Place plates containing soup on service plates (left hand, 
left side). 

Pass any accompanying dishes (napkin, left hand, left 
side). 

Remove soup and service plates together (right hand) and 
place warm plate for fish (left hand, left side). 

Pass fish and accompanying dishes in turn (on napkin, 
left hand, left side). 

Remove fish plate (right hand) and place plate with en- 
tree upon it (left hand, left side). 

Remove entree plate (right hand) and place warm dinner 
plate (left hand, left side). 

Pass meat, vegetables, and rolls in turn (on napkin, left 
hand, left side). 

Remove plate for meat course (right hand) and place 
salad arranged on plate (left hand, left side). 

Place fork for salad (at right from right), if it was not 
placed on table when laid or brought in on right hand side 
of salad plate. 

Pass crackers or sandwiches (on napkin, left hand, left 
side). 

Remove salad plate (left hand, left side). 

Remove bread-and-butter plates, if used. 

Remove any unused silver (tray). 

Remove salts and peppers (tray). 

Crumb the table, using folded napkin and plate or tray 
(from left side of each guest). 

Place ice, arranged on plate, (left hand, left side). 

Place silver for course (at right from right) unless 
brought in on right hand side of plate with ice. 

Pass cakes (on napkin, left hand, left side). 

Remove plate for ice (right hand) and place plate with 
doily, finger bowl, and fruit knife upon it (left hand, left 
side). Guest removes finger bowl and doily and places them 
in front of the cover. 



FORMAL LUNCHEONS 215 

Pass fruit attractively arranged ia dish (on napkin, left 
hand, left side) . 

Remove fruit plate (right hand) and place attev-dinner 
coffee cup directly in front of guest with handle of cup to 
right and with after-dinner coffee spoon on saucer parallel 
with handle of- cup (left hand, left side). 

Pass sugar bowl, with tongs, and cream pitcher on tray 
(left hand, left side). Few people take cream but it is always 
offered. 

Pass bonbons (tray, left hand, left side). 

Finger bowls are left on the table for use after bonbons 
are served. 

After-dinner coffee is very often served in the drawing 
room, in which case the bonbons are passed with the fruit 
course. 

It is possible and often advisable, where time or service is 
•limited, to simplify the service of a formal dinner. The first 
course may be followed directly by the meat course, fish and 
entree being omitted. Service is often further simplified by 
having the meat and vegetables arranged on the individual 
plate instead of being passed by the waitress. The salad 
course is never omitted but only one dessert course need be 
used, followed by coffee, bonbons and finger bowls in the 
order named. Service of any course can always be made more 
rapid by bringing in the food already arranged on the plates or 
more elegant by having the dishes passed by the waitress. 

FORMAL LUNCHEONS 

The menu and service for formal luncheons resembte 
those for formal dinners so closely that it is unnecessary to 
give any detailed description. The list of courses is usually 
somewhat as follows: 

Fruit or fruit cocktail 

Soup 

Fish, poultry or meat with vegetables 

Salad 

Dessert 

Coffee 



216 THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE 

The dishes chosen for a luncheon are not "so heavy and rich 
as those used in the dinner menu and special effort is made to 
have the food attractively arranged. A bare table with doilies 
is generally used and the napkins are smaller and folded three- 
cornered. The soup is served in bouillon cups; coffee is served 
in after-dinner coffee cups, either in the drawing room or at 
the table. If served at the table, the dessert plates may be ex- 
changed for the finger bowl service and coffee placed at the 
right of the plate, the guest removing the finger bowl with 
doily and using the plate for bonbons. The Russian style of 
service is used throughout the meal and the order of service 
is the same as for the formal dinner.. 

INFORMAL DIMVEKS 

Differences 'between Formal and Informal Dinners: — In- 
formal dinners usually consist of only the following courses: 
soup, meat with vegetables, salad, dessert, and coffee. Either 
English or Compromise style of service may he used, although 
the latter is very generally preferred if there is a waitress. 
The elaborateness of the menu and service may be varied great- 
ly according to circumstances. 

Soup is always served in soup dishes at dinner. It is per- 
missible to use side dishes for vegetables, which are nev- 
er seen at a formal dinner. They are brought in on a 
tray, placed from the left at the left side of the cover below 
the bread-and-butter plate and removed from the left also. It 
is permissible at an informal dinner to serve the salad with the 
meat course, arranged on small plates and placed from the 
right on the right of the cover. Desserts are less elaborate and 
more varied. They are often served in small dishes set on des- 
sert plates, rather than directly on the plate, as is usual at form- 
al dinners. The nature of the . dessert determines whether it 
shall be served directly on the plate or not, but the plate is al- 
ways provided under small dishes, as it is needed for holding 
cake and to lay the spoon upon when not in use. 

At informal dinners, coffee is often served in full-sized 
cups and is usually poured by the hostess at the table. It is 




n^ 



WashingiOD Pattern — Wallace Sterling Silver 
SILVERWARE FOR THE TABLE 



i^^ 



Heal „ , ^, 

OUve Server Cream Ladle 



Tomato ,;, t. 

Server Sugar Spoon Lettuce i orl^ 



Cheese 
Sener, H.H 



Butter 
Pick 



H 



Medium Individual ., 

Sugar Tonga Salad Fork \ 






Ovster^ForU 



Washinfton Pattern— Wallace Sterling Silver 
SILVERWARE FOR THE TABLE 



INFORMAL DINNERS 217 

customary to serve colfee only with the dessert course but it 
is sometimes offered with both the meat and dessert courses. 
The coffee service may be placed on a tray and set in front 
of the hostess, or the coffee pot may be placed on a tile at her 
right, with sugar bowl and cream pitcher in front of her plate. 
The cups, each set in its saucer, should be grouped about the 
coffee pot. A spoon is usually placed across the right side of 
the saucer, parallel with the handle of the cup. The cups and 
saucers should not be piled up. If there is not room for all, 
the waitress should bring others later from a side table. The 
hostess should ask a guest his preference as to cream and su- 
gar, which are always put in the cup before pouring in the cof- 
fee. If there is a waitress, she takes the coffee cups from the 
hostess and carries them to each place where she places them 
at the right from the right. The coffee may also be brought 
in in the cup (tray) and the sugar and cream passed (tray). 

If fruit is used for dessert, finger bowls should be provid- 
ed. 

Order of Service: — At an informal dinner, or any other in- 
formal meal when guests are present, the hostess generally pre- 
fers to give precedence to her lady guests who are served in 
order of age and dignity. A few hostesses insist that all guests 
shall be served before the family, while the custom of always 
serving the hostess first is followed in other homes. It is more 
usual, however, to serve air the women guests, then the hos- 
tess (unless she is much older than her guests, when she would 
take precedence), then other ladies of the family in order of 
age. Gentlemen guests would then be served in order of age 
or standing, then' men who were members of the family If 
children are present, they are served next and the host, if serv- 
ing, will fill his own plate last. Similarly, the hostess will not 
serve herself ahead of others, or help herself first to any dish 
she wishes to pass unless it is offered to her by the one sitting 
next to her. The waitress should observe the proper order of 
precedence in placing, removing and passing each dish. 

Service: — For details as to laying the table and duties of 
the waitress, see material under those headings (pages 204 



218 THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE 

to 210) As Stated above, the service may be consid-' 
erably varied. With each course but the soup, there is choice 
as to v^hether it shall be served upon the table (English style) 
or from the side (Russian style). Courses may be added to 
the customary four mentioned above and some slight contrac- 
tion may be affected by combining meat and salad courses as 
previously described. The service napkin may be used, as in 
the formal service, in bringing in all dishes containing foods 
to be served, oi- it may be dispensed with except in bringing 
and passing dishes which contain hot foods, when it is needed 
to protect the hand. The following simple form of service is 
suggested as suitable for family service or when a few guests 
are present. It can be carried out in its entirety only if there is 
a waitress but it is possible to follow this general type of ser- 
vice when one of the younger members of the family acts as 
waitress. 

Have service plates in place before announcing dinner. 

Have bread-and-butter plates in place with crisp cracker 
or bread stick upon each. Butter may be placed on the plates 
before the meal, if the room is not too warm, or it may be 
passed by the waitress after the meat course is served. Crack- 
ers may also be passed by the waitress or omitted, as preferred. 

Have water glasses filled about two-thirds full Just before 
the meal and refill from water pitcher on side table. The wa- 
ter pitcher is best placed upon a small tray or plate, on which 
there may be a doily. 

As soon as the family and guests are seated, bring two 
filled soup plates from pantry, leave one on serving table (right 
hand) and place the other on service plate (left hand, left 
side). 

Bring other soup plate from serving table and place (left 
hand, left side). 

Repeat until all are served. 

Remove soup and service plate together (left hand, left 
side) 

Place carving knife and serving silver (right hand, right 



INFORMAL, DINNERS 219 

side) and carving fork (left hand, left side), brought tp table 
on tray. 

Place heated dinner plates from left in front of host. 

Bring in meat or main dish (if in a casserole, remove cover 
and place on side table until all are served, then recover dish) 
on napkin and place from left in front of host. 

Bring in potatoes oT corresponding dish on napkin and 
place from right to the right of host. 

Take stand at left of host. Take filled plates from him 
(left hand) and place before persons to be served (left hand, 
left side) in proper order of service. 

Pass gravy, if there is any, with ladle in dish ("on napkin, 
left hand, left side). 

Pass second vegetable with serving silver in dish (on nap 
kin, left hand, left side). 

Pass bread or rolls (left hand, left side). 

Each of the foods passed is offered to the guests and fam- 
ily in the proper order of service, which is observed as well in 
placing and removing soups, salad, and dessert courses. 

If a second portion of meat or potato is wished, the wait- 
ress should take plate (left hand, left side), carry it to left of 
host where she should hold it at a convenient height and dis- 
tance for him to refill, and replace it before the person served 
(left hand, left side). Vegetables and bread should be passed 
again in proper order. 

Remove food and dishes for meat course in proper order 
( see page 210 ) . 

Place salad, arranged on plate, (left hand, left side). 
Saiad or dessert plates may be brought in two at a time and 
one left on side table to be placed later, as described in plac- 
ing soup. 

Pass crackers or sandwiches (left hand, left side). 

Refill glasses and repass crackers, if needed. 

Remove salad plates (right hand) and bread-and-butter 
plates (left hand, left side). 

Remove salt and pepper sets (tray). 



220 THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OF THE TABL.B 

Remove crumbs from table, using folded napkin and plate 
or tray (left side). 

Place dessert plates with dessert arranged upon them and 
silver for dessert course on right side of plate (left hand, left 
side). 

Or, place dessert plates as above but without silver, which 
is brought in on a tray and laid at right of each person (right 
hand, right side). 

Or, place dessert plates empty from left in front of hos- 
tess. Bring in dessert and place in front of hostess from the 
left. Stand at left of hostess, take filled plates from her with 
left hand and place before persons to be served (left hand, 
left side) in turn, as was done with dinner plates. 

Pass cake (left hand, left side). 

Bring in coffee service and place before hostess. Stand at 
her left, receive each cup as filled on a tray and place in turn 
at right of persons served (right hand, right side). 

Or, bring in filled coffee cups on a tray, place at right of 
each cover (right hand, right side) and pass creain and su- 
gar on a tray (left hand, left side). 

FAMILY DINNEB WITHOUT A MAID 

The English styl« of serving the food from the table is the 
most practical form of service and the one in common use in 
families where there is no maid. When a woman has all the 
work of the house to do, she must consider how she may con- 
serve her time and strength. The menu for the family dinner, 
therefore, must not be elaborate and thought must be taken 
to have everything in readiness before the meal is served, so 
there will be as little occasion as possible for leaving the table. 
Even if the food and service are simple, it is of greatest impor- 
tance that the family table be clean and' dainty in appearance. 
Plenty of clean linen adds greatly to the appearance of the 
table. If the problem of laundry is a difficult one, small-sized 
table-cloths and napkins, table runners, tray cloths and doi- 
lies may be used. A meal is always more dainty and appetiz- 
ing If care is taken to avoid putting too much food upon the 
table at one tjme or piling food upon the plates. Rven with 



FAMILY DINNER WITHOUT A MAID 221 

a very simple meal. It is best to have at least two courses, put- 
ting the food fof only one course upon the table at a time and 
removing all the unused food and soiled dishes from one 
course before bringing on another. The increased attractive- 
ness of the table fully repays even a very busy housewife for 
the small amount of extra labor required, or other mexnbers of 
the family can relieve the person who has prepared the meal 
of care in serving. 

Simplifying the Menu: — Two or three courses are usual 
for a simple family dinner — soup, meat with vegetables, and 
dessert; or meat with vegetables, salad, and dessert; or meat 
with vegetables (and with salad served at the same time, if- 
desired), and dessert. Dishes which require very simple pre- 
paration or foods such as fruits which can be served uncooked 
may be used frequently, greatly reducing the time and labor 
spent in cooking. Eggs and other meat substitutes may and 
should be freely used in place of meat. Milk forms a ready-to- 
consume food which is almost always easily obtainable. An 
abundance of a few wholesome dishes, well served, is always 
more desirable than a more elaborate menu, poorly served. 

Sitriplifying the Service: — A good sized serving table or buf- 
fet is a great convenience and further saving of steps can be ef- 
fected by having a small serving table, oncastorsandwithseveral 
shelves, "which may stand at the left of the place occupied by 
the -mistress of the house. All foods which do not need to be 
served hot or cold may be placed on the table, if used in the 
first course, or on the serving table, if used later in the meal. 
Food on the serving table may be covered with a napkin until 
the time of service. 

If a hot beverage is to be served throughout the meal, the 
cups and saucers, together with cream and sugar, may be placed 
upon the table by the place of the mistress of the house, as 
shown in the diagram of the family table. Each cup should be 
placed in its saucer with the handle toward the person pour- 
ing. In the case of a large family, it is better to keep at least 
part of the cups and saucers on the serving table. If the bever- 
age is not served throughout the meal, the .cups and saucers, 



222 THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE 

cream pitcher and sugar bowl should be placed together on tlie 
serving table until needed. 

Bread-and-butter plates may be placed when the table is 
laid and butter may be put upon them just before the meal is 
served. Slices of bread, arranged on a plate, and butter, cut in 
squares and placed on a smaller plate, are usually put on the 
table just before the family is called to the meal. Glasses should 
be filled alsa immediately before the meal and the water pitch- 
er may be placed on the side table or on the table near some 
member of the family, whose duty it-is refill the glasses. 

All serving silver and the carving knife and fork, if need- 
ed, should either be placed on the table by the place of the 
person who is. to use them, or upon the serving table ready for 
use in the course in which it is needed. 

Dessert silver may be put upon the table when it is laid, 
if there is no maid. 

It is not necessary to exchange the plates for one coarse 
for those required for the next course, as is done at formal 
meals so that each person shall not be left without a plate at 
any time. Service plates can be dispensed with, therefore, and 
plates can be removed or brought in two at a time, which is 
not allowable in formal service. The service napkin is used 
only for assistance in bringing in hot dishes and not for form. 

Soup may be served in the individual dishes Immediately 
before the family sits down at the table, since the soup tureen 
is seldom used now. The heated plates are placed before the 
master of the house, who serves the meat and potatoes (or cor- 
responding dishes) upon them and passes them to the other 
members of the family. The mistress of the house is usually 
served first, if there are no guests. Other vegetables may be 
served by the mother or some other member of the 
family either on the dinner plate or in individual dishes 
if|desired. Salad and dessert may be served by the 
mistress of the house, as well as the beverage. It is some- 
times more convenient to bring in salad or dessert already 
served and thus decrease the number of dishes which the mis- 
tress of the house has to serve; or other members of the family 



223 




THE FAMILY TABLE 



224 THE ETIQUETTE AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE 

may share in the task ot serving. If there are children of re- 
sponsible age. the work of removing one course and bringing 
on the next should be done chiefly by them. A large tray saves 
many steps in arranging and clearing the table; a serving 
table on castors can easily be wheeled into the pantry or 
kitchen after the meal. 

The general rules, given on pages 204 to 210, for laying 
the table and for placing and removing dishes and food ara 
followed at family tables. 

BREAKFAST AND INFORMAL LUNCHEON 

Breakfast is never a formal meal. Even in households* 
where service is very elaborate, breakfast is kept a compara- 
tively simple meal. Special care should be taken to make 
breakfast as cheerful a meal as possible. There is such ab- 
solute freedom given to the housekeeper in the choice of dishes 
to be served for breakfast or luncheon and in their arrange- 
ment in courses that it is useless to attempt to outline menus 
for these meals. Breakfast may vary from toast and coffee to 
a substantial meal of fruit, breakfast cereal, bacon and eggs, 
muffins, jam, and coffee or cocoa. English or Compromise 
style is used in serving and the general rule* already outlined 
(pages 204 to 210) for laying the table and serving are fol- 
lowed. 

THE GARNISHING OF FOOD 

Dainty ways of serving food have a usefulness beyond their 
aesthetic value. Everyone knows that a feeble appetite is 
often tempted by a tastefully garnished dish, when the same 
material carelessly served would seem quite unpalatable. 
Furthermore, many cheap articles of food and "left-overs," 
when well seasoned and attractively served, may be just as 
appetizing as more expensive ones and the garnishing may It- 
self contain nourishing material. The chief reasons for gar- 
nishing food are then, to make the dish more attractive to the 
eye and thus more appetizing, and to add to the food value «3 
well as to the appearance of the dish. 



CARVING 225 

The principal points to remember In garnisliing a dish 
are: the garnish should be simple and not suggestive o£ much 
unnecessary labor; it must be appropriate to the food served; 
it must be edible; it must be placed so as not to interfere with 
the serving of the food. 

CARVING 

Suggestions: — Carving, like any other art, requires study, 
and success is not attained without much practice. 

Some idea of the relative positions of bones, joints, fat, 
and tough and tender muscles is the first requisite of good 
carving. Strength is not required so much as skill, neatness 
and care. 

A firm, steady hand, a cool, collected manner and con- 
fidence in one's ability are necessary. 

One should learn to carve without rising. If the chair Of' 
ftie carver is higher than the ordinary chair, he can carve with 
less difficulty. Ample space should be allowed" the carver. 

General Directions: — Take out the skewers and remove the 
string before placing the meat on the platter. 

The platter should be large enough to hold the entire 
piece of meat when carved, and also to avoid any danger of 
soiling the cloth when carving. It is impossible to carve easily 
on a small platter. 

It is sometimes well to have a plate near on which the 
carver may put stuffing, trimmings, or bones that are not to be 
served. 

The platter must be hot, so that the meat will not chill. 

The carving knife should have a handle easy to grasp and 
a long, thin, sharp-pointed blade, and should be of appropriate 
size. 

Never use a carving knife except for carving. 

The knife should be examined and sharpened on the steel 
before it is brought to the table. 

T'xe carving fork should be strong, with long tines, and 
a good guard, which should be up while one is carving. 

Carve the meat neatly and economically. 

—15 



226 THE ETIQUETTB AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE 

Cut straight, thin slices, always across the grain of the 
meat. Even the tenderest piece of meat will be tough if cut 
with the grain — that is, with the length of the fiber. 

When carving poultry, one may offer each person his 
choice, or not, as seems best. 

Keep the meat compact while carving. 

After all are served the portion on the platter should not 
be left jagged and rough but should present a neat and attrac- 
tive appearance. 

Carving a Fowl: — A fowl should be placed on its back on 
the platter. Introduce the carving fork firmly across the 
breastbone, holding the handle in the left hand. With the 
carving knife in the right hand, cut through the skin between 
the leg and the body, close to the body. 

With the knife, pull back the leg and disjoint it from the 
body. 

Cut oft the wing. 

Carve the breast meat in thin slices. 

Take off the wishbone, inserting the knife just in front of 
the breastbone, and cutting backward to the joints at the 
neck. Press the bo,ne backward to the neck and disjoint it at 
these points. 

Separate the second joints from the drumsticks. 

Make an opening just below the "breastbone. This will 
give an opportunity to remove the stufiSng. 



INDEX 227 



INDEX 

<PBACTICAI. COOKSR.t) 



Abbreviations and Equiv.ilent5 12-13 

Additional Recipes 183-192 

After Dinner Coffee 15 

Albumen Water 18 

Alcohol Stoves 9 

Almond: 

Macaroons 125 

Soup 95 

Almonds: 

Blanciied 53 

Mock i 112 

Salted 53 

Angel Parfait , 166 

Angel Food 119 

Apple: 

Baked 22 

Baked Peerless 22 

Balls 22 

Canned 172 

Chutney 176 

Fritters 150 

Jelly 179 

Jelly, Crab 180 

Jelly, Apple Mint 180 

Jelly, Apple Plum 181 

Pickles, Spiced 174 

Pie 60 

Rolh 150 

Sauce 21 

Sauted 23 

Snow 152 

Spiced 22 

Water 18 

Apple and Quince Marmalade 174 

Apricot, Stewed 24 

Asparagus: 

Boiled 49 

Salad I 138 

Salad II 138 

Aspic Jelly 75 

Bacon Fat Dressing 133 

Baked Bean Soup with Tomato 95 

Baking Powder Biscuits 102 

Balls: 

Apple 22 

Beef 71 

Cheese 89 

Fish 88] 

Potato 44| 



22 H INDBX 

Bananas: 

Baked «3 

iPried ; 23 

Banbury Tarts - ; 52 

Baskets: 

Fruit 6» 

Orange, with Jelly 15* 

Bath Buns 12 J 

Batter Bread, Southern 100 

Batters 9T 

Bavarian: 

Orange 161 

Strawberry 161 

Bean and Tomato Soup 94 

Beans: 

Baked -. 6J 

Buttered Lima 51 

Bechamel Sauce '. 89 

Beef: 

Balls 71 

Braised ; 74 

Oven Roast ■■ 70 

Pot Roast 71 

Sandwiches 142 

Beef Juice: Bottled 19 

Beets: 

Boiled 47 

In Vinegar Sauce 47 

Pickled ; 1 . 47 

Berry Pie 69 

(Beverages 14-19 

' Methods of Making 14 

Biscuit Glace 167 

Biscuits: 

Baking Powder 102 

Dropped , 103 

Potato 110 

Blackberries, Canned 172 

Blanc Mange, Irish Moss 147 

Blaac^ed Almonds S3 

Boiled Icing 129 

Bonbons ^ 31 

Centers iil 

To, Dip in Fondant 31 

To Dip in Chocolate 3^ 

Boston Brown Bread 100 

Eouchfies of Meat 73 

Bouillon, Egg 93 

Bow Knots 126 

Braised Beef 74 

Braids 109 

Bran Bread 101 

bread. General Directions for Making 104 

Baked Brown 102 

Boston Brown ; 108 

Bran 101 

Coffee, I 110 

Coffee, II 110 

Corn % 101 

Prumbs ...,,, Ill 



INDEX 229 

Kntlr« Wheat (yeast) 107 

Ginger 102 

Graham 103 

Graha»i (yeast) •. . . 107 

Nut 102 

Nut (yeast) 110 

Omelet with Jelly 68 

Pudding-, Chocolate 146 

Pudding, Orange 146 

Score card for i 105 

Southern Batter 100 

Stale, Uses for j Ill 

Sticks 109 

To Glaze Fancy 107 

White (Sponge Method) 107 

White (Straight Dough Method) 106 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches 141 

Breaded Veal Cutlets J 76 

Breslau of Meat !.... 74-75 

Broth: 

Chicken, with Egg 92 

German Brown 93 

Brown Bread: 

Baked 102 

Boston ■ 100 

Brown Meat Stew with Dumplings 72 

Brown Sauce 39 

Brown Sugar Killing 12,8 

Buckwheat Cakes 99 

Burnt-Sugar: 

Cake 116 

Icing 129 

Butter Scotch 28 

Butterod Crumbs Ill 

Cakes, General Rules for Mixing and Baking 114-115 

Almond, White 116 

Angel Food 119 

Boston Fudge 117 

Caramel or Burnt-Sugar 116 

Chocolate 117 

Coffee Cake 118 

Cup Cakes (Currant) 118 

Cup Cakes (White) 118 

butch Apple 150 

Fruit 118 

Gold 116 

Italian , 117 

Jam 119 

Plain 116 

Spice 1 117 

Spice II 117 

Sponge I 119 

Sponge II . . . ; 119 

Sponge (White) 119 

Standard 116 

Tea 119 

White 119 

White Almond , 116 

White Cup 118 



230 INDBX 

White Spongre , 119 

Yellow ; ii« 

Cakes 

Buckwheat 9* 

Date 124 

Griddle 99 

Callas 152 

Canapes, Cheese , 94 

Candied Orange Peel 34 

Candy 27-85 

Hoarhound , 27 

Peanut 28 

Canned: 

Apples 172 

Blackberries 172 

Peaches : 172 

Pears 178 

Rhubarb 172 

Canning 170-171 

Caramel: 

Icing 12« 

Sauce 41 

Syrup 27 

Caramels, Chocolate 29 

Casserole of: 

Rice and Meat 74 

Rice and Salmon 87 

Catsup: 

Grape 177 

Tomato ' 176 

Cauliflower, Preparation for Boiling 47 

Cereals 54-55 

Examples of 54 

General Directions 64 

Charlotte Russe 152 

Checkerboard Sandwiches 141 

Cheese 88-98 

Balls. 89 

Canapes 90 

Cottage 88 

Dressing for Salad 1S4 

Fondu 89 

Macaroni and 88 

Pudding 89 

Pudding, Spiced 88 

Rarebit 90 

Souffle 88 

Soup 96 

Straws I , eg 

Straws II 63 

Cheese and Olive Sandwiches 144 

Cherry Punch 17 

Chicken 71 

Broth with Egg ^j 

Cold Soufflg 88 

Fillets with Onion , 83 

Fricassee of 81 

Giblet Sauce 81 

GIac6, Cream of gS 



INDEX 231 

Gumbo , 94 

Jellied , 82 

Loaf with Asparagus '. 82 

Maryland , . . 81 

Roast 80 

Salad 140 

Sandwiches 142 

Sauted 81 

Stuffing tor 81 

To Bone 79 

To Clean Giblets 78 

To Cut -Up 80 

To Dress and Clean 78 

To Truss 78 

Cliocolate 15 

Baked Custard 157 

Bread Pudding 146 

Caramels 29 

Corn Starch Mold 146 

Dipped Nuts 32 

Filling 129 

Frozen 169 

Ice Cream 166 

Icing I 130 

Icing II 130 

Macaroons 125 

'Sandwiches 145 

Sauce 41 

Souffle 147 

Steamed Custard 156 

Steamed Pudding 153 

Tapioca 149 

To Dip In 32 

Chops, Panbroiled or Baked 77 

Chowder: 

Corn 96 

Fish 96 

Cinnamon: 

Rolls 108 

Water 18 

Cleansing Agents 182 

Clover Leaves 109 

Club Sandwiches 144 

Coal Stoves or Ranges 5 

Cocoa 15 

Breakfast, with Egg 15 

Cream 160 

Cocoanut; 

Bar 31 

Macaroons .' 125 

Puffs 124 

Coffee: 

After Dinner 15 

Boiled with Egg I 14 

Boiled with Egg II 14 

Bread I ; < 110 

Bread II 110 

Cake 118 

Filtered 15 

Frappfi 164 



232 INDEX 

Jelly , 159 

Parfait , 1«» 

Sponge .■ 160 

Cold-Pack Method for Canning 17t 

Conserve, Cranberry 174 

Corn: 

Bread 101 

Chowder . . . : 96 

Custard 51 

Soup , M 

Cornflake Kisses ; 125 

Corn Meal Muffins lOX 

Cornstarch Mold, Chocolate ■■ 141 

Cookits and Small Cakes 121-127 

Cream 121 

Ginger Drops, Golden 123 

Hermits 12S 

Jelly Jumbles % 12l 

Molasses 121 

Oatmeal 122 

Peanut 122 

Pecan Nut Wafers 122 

Plain i 121 

Russian Rocks 122 

Cottage Cheese . . . - 88 

Cranberry: 

Conserve 174 

Pie «9 

Punch 17 

Sauce _..;.. 23 

Cranberry and Raisin Jelly 180 

Cranberry and Raisin Sauce 24 

Cream: 

Cheese Salad : 140 

Cherries 30 

Cocoa 160 

Cookies 121 

Figs 30 

Filling 128 

Ginger 161 

Icing : - 130 

Lemon 32 

Loaf 31 

Mints : 31 

Nuts 30 

Orange 32 

Puffs 124 

Raisin Pie 61 

Soups , . . 37 

Tapioca Pudding 148 

Whipped 41 

Creamed: 

Dishes, General Rules for Making S7 

Cream of: 

Chicken Glacg 83 

Salmon Soup 93. 

Tonlato Soup ., . 93, 

Crescents 18* 



INDEX 233 

(irisp Crackers 112 

Croutons Ill 

Croquettes: 

Fish ■ 86 

General Dlreccions for Making 39 

Meat 74 

Nut 52 

Egrg: 69 

Crullers 126 

Crumbs: 

Bread Ill 

Buttered Ill 

Crustades 112 

Crystal Cups 34 

Cucumber Pickles 175 

Curled Orange 21 

Currant Cup Cake lis 

Curry of Mutton 77 

Custards 155-157 

Baked 157 

Baked Caramel 157 

Baked Chocolate 157 

Corn 51 

Pie 61 

Steamed 156 

Steamed Caramel ; 156 

Steamed Chocolate 156 

To combine 155 

To, test 155 

Date: 

Cakes 124 

Paste 129 

Pudding I 154 

Pudding II 154 

Rolls 150 

Sandwiches . .■ 14,4 

Stuffed 1 30 

Desserts 146-169 

Desserts, Frozen 162-169 

Desserts, Frozen, General Directions for 162 

Deviled Eggs 69 

Bipped Tokay Grapes 32 

ivinity 34- 

Doughs 97 

Doughnuts: 

Raised Ill 

Sour Milk 126 

Sweet Milk 126 

Drawn Butter Sauce 39 

Dropped Biscuits 103 

Dry Toast 112 

Duchess Potatoes 44 

Dumplings: 

Baked Fruit 151 

For Stews 103 

Dutch Apple Cake , 150 

Effect of Heat on: 

Fat 56 

Protein 65 



234 INDEX 

Starch *| 

Sugar ■ '* 

Egg: ., 

Bouillon »» 

In a Nest ^g» 

Salad I ' • ■ ill 

Salad II 139 

Salad III 139 

Sandwiches 1** 

Croquettes §» 

Sauce *8 

Souffle 67 

Eggs : 

A la Goldenrod 67 

Baked »» 

Coddled 67 

Deviled "' 

Hard Cooked 66 

Poached in Bread Boxes 66 

Poached on Toast 66 

Sauted 66 

Scalloped 67 

Scrambled 67 

Scrambled, Country Style 66 

Soft Cooked 66 

Bggnog lo 

Egg Plant: 

Saut#a 50 

StufCed ; 50 

Emergency Soup 9< 

Entire-Wheat Bread 107 

Equivalents and Abbreviations 12-13 

Fat: 

Effect of Heat on 56 

To Clarify 57 

To Test Heat of 57 

Fig: 

Paste 129 

Pudding, Steamed 154 

Sandwiches H* 

Pigs, Stewed 24 

Fillings 128 

Brown Sugar 128 

Chocolate 129 

Cream 128 

Date Paste , 129 

Fig Paste 129 

Lemon 61 

Orange 63 

Kireless Cooker 9 

Fish 83-87 

Baked with Oyster Stufting 8S 

Balls 86 

Broiled .•.. 85 

Casserole o£ Rice and Salmon 87 

Chowder . . . .■ ■. 96 

Creamed .- 86 

Croquettes . . ." 86 

Fried 8S 

Plauked 8S 



INDEX 23S 

-Sauted 85 

Scalloped 86 

Souffle 86 

To Bone 84 

To Clean 84 

To Cook in Water 84 

To Skin 84 

Turbans 86 

Flank Steak en Casserole 72 

Jlour Mixtures, General Directions for 9T 

Foamy Egg Sauce 41 

Fondant 29 

Quick 30 

Uncooked -SO 

Foundation Punch 16 

Franconia Potatoes 46 

Frappg. Definition of 162 

Coffee 164 

Grape 164 

Pineapple 164 

French; 

Dressing 132 

Fried Potatoes 45 

Toast 113 

Fricassee of Chicken 81 

Fritters: 

Apple 150 

Frozen: 

Chocolate ■. 169 

Desserts 162-169 

Pudding 168 

Tomato Salad 137 

Fruit 20-24 

Baskets 63 

Cake ; 118 

Canning 170 

Dumplings. Baked 151 

Glazed 32 

Jelly 180 

Nectar 16 

Pudding, Steamed 155 

Salads 134-135 

Salpicon 21 

Tapioca 149 

Frying: 

Definition of 11 

General Directions for 56 

Fudge: 

Chocolate 29 

Marshmallow 29 

Gas Stoves or Ranges 8 

Gasoline Stoves 9 

Gelatin , 157-159 

Double Molding in > 158 

General Directions for Use of 157 

General Proportions Used 158 

To Decorate a Mold 158 

To Mold 158 

To Unmold 1S8 



236 INDEX 

German Brown Broth 9S 

Glblet: ' 

Gravy < 39 

Sauce : 8t 

To Clean 78 

Gingerbread . . . ■. 102 

Glac#, Biscuit 167 

Ginger Cream 16,1 

Glazed: 

Nuts and Fruit ».... 32 

Sweet Potatoes •. 46 

Gluten Wafers 126 

Golden Ginger Drops 123 

Graham: 

Bread 103 

Bread (Yeast) 107 

Muffins 101 

Grape Fruit 21 

Grape: 

Catsup 177 

Ice 164 

Frappg 164 

Juice I 172 

Juice II 172 

Milk Sherbet 165 

MoussS 167 

Nectar 17 

Punch 16 

Sherbet 165 

Grapes, Tokay, Dipped 32 

Gravy: 

Giblet .-. 39 

Pan 39 

Griddle Cakes: 

Buckwheat *9 

Sour Milk 99 

Hamburg: 

Baked 73 

Steak 72 

Hard Sauce 40 

Heart, Stuffed 76 

Hermits 123 

Hoarhound Candy 27 

Hollandaise Sauce 39 

Hot Slaw 138 

Ice: 

Grape 164 

Lemon 163 

Orange 164 

Peach 164 

Pineapple 164 

Bee Cream, Definition of 163 

Caramel Custard ■ 166 

Chocolate 166. 

Macaroon 166 

Plain 165 

Plain Custard 166 

Strawberry 165 

R-lmgs , 128 

Boiled 12» 



INDEX 237 

Burnt-Sugar 129 

Caramel 129 

Caramel Nut , 129 

Chocolate I 130 

Chocolate II 130 

Cream 130 

Mocha 130 

Ornamental 131 

Powdered Sugar , 131 

Quick 138 

Imperial: 

•Pudding IM 

Sticks in Rings 112 

Indian: 

Pudding 149 

Sauce 176 

Irish Moss: 

Blanc Mange 14T 

Jelly 14S 

Lemonade 17 

Ivory Jeaiy I 159 

Ivory Jelly II 160 

Jam Cake -. 119 

Javelle Water i82 

Jellied: 

Chicken 82 

Meat Loaf 73 

Jelly -. 146 

Apple .' 179 

Apple Mint 189 

Apple Plum- 181 

Aspic 75 

Crabapple 180 

Cranberry and Raisin 180 

Coffee 159 

General Directions for 178 

Irish Moss 146 

Ivory I 159 

Ivory II 160 

Lemon 159 

Orange : 159 

Pectin Test 179 

Quince 181 

Small Fruit 180 

White Grape and Quince 180 

Julienne Soup 93 

J^imbles, Jelly 121 

Junket: 

Pudding 147 

Whey 19 

Kerosene Stoves 9 

Kisses 64 

Koumiss 16 

Lady Fingers i 123 

Legumes 44, 47, 51 

Lemon: 

Cream 147 ' 

Oreams • 32 



338 INDEX 

Pilling 61 

Ice 163 

Jelly 159 

Milk Sherbet 165 

Pie 61 

Sauce I 40 

Sauce II 4P 

Sherbet 164 

Souffle 147 

Sponge 160 

Sticks 63 

lemonade 17 

Irish Moss 17 

Lentil Loaf 51 

Lentils 47 

Lettuce: 

Egg and Radish Salad 136 

Salad 135 

Salad with Cheese Balls 140 

Sandwiches 142 

Lima Beans, Buttered '. ■ 51 

Lincoln Snow Balls 149 

Liver and Bacon 76 

Macaroni: 

And Cheese 88 

Boiled , 55 

Scalloped with Tomato Sauce 52 

Macaroon Ice Cream 166 

Macaroons: 

Almond 125 

Chocolate 125 

Cocoanut 125 

Majestic Pudding 168 

Maple: 

Parfait 166 

Mousse 167 

Marguerites 124 

Marmalade: 

Apple and Quince 174 

Orange 173 

Rhubarb 173 

Marshmallow: 

Fudge 29 

Pudding , 161 

Marshmallows '33 

Maryland Chicken 81 

Mayonnaise 134 

Measurements 12 

Meat 70-87 

Bouch^es of 73 

Breslau of 74-75 

Casserole of Rice and 74 

Croquettes 74 

General Directions for Cooking 70 

Jellied Loaf 73 

Minced, on Toast 74 

Pie .• 73 

Souffle 74 

Stew with Dumplings 72 



INDEX 239 

Mei^lngues ,64 

Methods of Combining Food Materials : 11 

Metliods of Cookery 10-11 

Millt: 

Hot Spiced 18 

Toast 113 

Mince: 

Meat 62 

Pie 62 

Minced Meat on Toast 74 

Mint Punch : 17 

Mint. Apple Jelly 180 

Mints " 31 

Mocha Icing ; . . 130 

Mock Almonds 112 

Molasses Cookies 121 

Molasses Taffy ^ 27 

Mousse, Definition of 162 

Neapolitan Soup 94 

Grape 167 

Maple . . . : 167 

Strawberry -. 167 

Mousseline Sauce 40 

Muffins 

Corn Meal 101 

Graham 101 

Plain 101 

Mush, SautSd 55 

Mushrooms, Stewed -49 

Mustard Pickles 175 

Mutton, Curry of 77 

Nectar, Fruit 16 

Nectar. Grape 17 

Nesselrode Pudding 168 

Nougat 33 

S^uts 44. 53 

Chocolate Dipped 32 

Glazed 32 

Nut: 

Bread 110; 102 

Croquettes 52 

I.oaf 52 

Pastry Roll , 63 

Souffle 52 

Oatmeal Cookies 122 

Olive Oil Pickles 176 

Omelet: 

Bread, with Jelly 68 

Orange 68- 

Oyster . . .-. 68 

Plain 67 

To Fold and Turn 68 

Onions Stuffed with Pecan Nuts 48 

Orange: 

Baskets with Jelly .....' 159 

Bavarian 161 

Breakfast 20 

Cream 148 

Creams 32 

Cream Sherbet 165 



240 INDBX 

Curled 21 

Filling ■ 63 

Ice 164 

Jelly 15» 

Marmalade 173 

Omelet 68 

Peel. Candied 34 

Picnic 21 

Sections 21 

Sherbet 165 

Snow 152 

Sponge 160 

Tartlets 63 

Ornamental Icing .' , 131 

Oven Temperatures, Standardization of 115 

Oyster; 

Cocktail 87 

Omelet 68 

Stew ■ 98 

Oysters 

Fried 87 

Scalloped ... 8T 

Panbroiled: 

Chops 77 

Steak 71 

Pan Gravy _ 39 

Parfait. Definition of 162 

Angel -■ 166 

Coffee •. . 167 

Maple K6 

Parisian Sweets 33 

Parker House Rolls 107 

Parsley Butter 39 

Parsnips, Sauted 47 

Paste: 

Date ■. 129 

Fig 129 

Pastry 58-63 

Plain 59 

Puff •. 59 

Pea and Peanut Salad 136 

Pea and Potato Ball Salad 136 

Peach: 

Ice 4 164 

Snow " 1S2 

Peaches: , 

Canned 172 

Sweet Pickled 174 

Peanut: 

Brittle 27 

Candy 28 

Cookies 1 122 

Dressing for Salad : 134 

Sandwich 144 

Soup 95 

Peanuts, Salted I •. 52 

Peanuts, Salted II 53 

Pears: 

Canned 172 

Salad 13S 



INDEX 241 

Sweet Pickled 175 

Peas: 

Split 47 

Pecan Nut Wafers 122 

Pectin Test 179 

Peerless Baked Apples ' 22 

Pennucci • 29 

Peppers. StufCed .Sweet 50 

Pickled Beets 47 

Pickles: 

Cucumber 175 

Mustard 175 

Olive Oil , 176 

Spanish 175 

Spiced Apple 174 

Sweet Peach 174 

Sweet Pear 175 

Picnic Orangre ' 21 

Pie: 

Apple 60 

Berry 60 

Cranberry -. 60 

Cream Raisin 61 

Custard 61 

Lemon 61 

Meat 73 

Mince 68 

Prune 60 

Pumpkin 62 

Rhubarb 60 

Sour Cream 61 

Washington 153 

Pineapple: 

Frapp§ 164 

Ice 164 

Preserved 173 

Punch i 17 

Planked: 

Fish 85 

Steak , 71 

Plum, Apple Jelly 181 

Poinsettia Tomato Salad 137 

Popovers 98 

Porcupine Pudding 154 

Pork Roast 77 

Potato: 

Balls- 44 

Biscuits 110 

Cakes 45 

Chips 45 

Quirls 46 

Roses 45 

Salad 136 

Potatoes: 

Baked 45 

Baked Sweet 46 

Duchess ; 44 

Franconia 48 

C^rench Fried 45 

— J6 



242 JKDBSX 

Glazed Sweet -> ..■ *6 

Mashed 44 

Riced 44 

Smothered 46 

Stuffed 45 

Poultry 78-83 

To Bone 79-8» 

To Clean Giblets 78 

To Cut Up 80 

To Dress and Clean 78 

To Truss 78-79 

Powdered Su^ar Icing 131 

Preserved Ginger Sandwiches 144 

Preserved : 

■ Pineapple 173 

Strawberry , 173 

Preserving — General Directions for ; . 170-171 

Pressed Veal ..'.., 7«. 

Pressure Cooker lO 

Protein: 

Effect of Heat on • SS 

Prunes: 

Pie ; 60 

Stewed ; ■ 23 

Puff Paste 59 

Pudding: 

Cheese 89 

Chocolate Bread 146 

Chocolate Steamed 153 

Chocolate Tapioca ; 149 

Cream Tapioca ,' : 148 

Date I ; . . ; 154 

Date II 154 

Frozen 168 

Fruit Tapioca 149 

Imperial : 148 

Indian • 149. 

Junket 147 

Majestic 168 

Marshmallow ; 161 

Nesselrode 168 

Orange Bread 14S 

Porcupine 154 

Snow 160 

Spiced Cheese 88 

Steamed Fig 154 

Steamed Fruit -.....> 155 

Steamed Tapioca .....: 148 

Suet I 153 

Suet II 153 

Puffed Rice Balls 28 

Pumpkin Pie i 62 

Punch 16-17 

Cherry 17 

Cranberry ; 17 

Foundation 16 

Grape ; '. v ....... . 16 

Grape Nectar . ; ; 17 

Mint .V. . . : 17 



INDEX 243 

Pineapple , 17 

■ Raspberry .■ 17 

Strawberry ■ i i ............ ; 16 

Tea it:.:: : 17 

Quick Icing -,:.:.: ; ; . . . 130 

Quince Jelly 181 

Raised Doughnuts Ill 

Raisin Sandwiches ;...-. 144 

Rarebit : 90 

Raspberry Punch 17 

Red Bean Salad ■ ;.. 138 

Rennet Whey 19 

Rhubarb: 

Baked ; 23 

■ Canned ; : 172 

Marmalade ; 173 

• Pie i. ..- ; ; fiO^ 

Ribbon Sandwiches 141 

Rice: . , • 

Boiled , 55 

Steamed 55 

, Water , 18 

Roast: 

; Chicken , 80 

> Oven 70 

,' Pork 77 

; Pot ,.. 71 . 

T yeal , 77 

Rolls: 

, Apple 150 

Cinnamon , 108 

Date 150 

, Dinner 10^ 

- Parker House ' 107 ' 

Salad 108 

Sandwich 142 

To Glaze ■ 107 

Russian: 

Dressing - 134 

Rocks 122 

Sandwiches 144 

Tea 17 

Salads .• 132-140 

Apple and Celery 135 

Asparagus I '. 138 

Asparagus II ; 138 

Banana 135 

; Chicken 140 

, Cream Cheese 140 

Combination Fruit -. 135 

Date . . . .; 135 

Egg I 139 

Egg II 139 

Egg III 139 

Fruit 134 

Fruit and MarshmalloW 135 

Grapefruit and Pimento 135 

Lettuce 135 

Lettuce with Cheese Balls ; 140 

. Lettuce; Egg and Radish . . .' ISd 



244 INDEX 

Ora'ngre and Pimento 135 

Pea and Peanut '......; •• 136 

Pea and Potato Ball 136 

Pear 135J 

Poinsettia Tomato 13Ti, 

Potato 136' 

Red Bean 136, 

Salmon : . . 139. 

Sweetbread and Cucumber 130^ 

Tomato 136 

Tomato, Frozen 137 

Tomato, Jelly 138 

Tomato, Stuffed 137 

Watercress 13S 

White 138 

White and Gold 135 

Salad Dressings: 

Bacon Fat 133 

Cheese .- 134 

Cooked 139 

French 132 

Mayonnaise ■ 134 

Peanut 134 

Russian 134 

Whipped Cream 131 

White . ; 13S 

Sally Lunn , lOX 

Salmon: 

Casserole of Rice and 87 

Cream Soup 93 

iioaf 86 

Salad IS* 

Salpicon, Fruit '. 21 

Salted: 

Almonds 53 

Peanuts I : 5| 

Peanuts II S3 

Sandwiches 141-145 

Beef. Raw 142 

Bread and Butter ^ 141 

Checkerboard 141 

Cheese and Olive 144 

Chicken 142 

Chocolate 145 

Club 144 

Date 144 

Egg 143 

Fig 144 

General Suggestions for ^ 141 

Ham 14i 

Ham and Egg 143 

Ham, Ground 143 

Lettuce ; 142 

Nasturtium 142 

Peanut 144 

Preserved Ginger 144 

Raisin 144 

Ribbon 141 

Bussian , .....^..... 144 



INDEX 245 

Sardine 143 

Tongue , 143 

Watercress 142 

Whipped Cream 146 

Sandwicli Rolls 142 

Sardine Sandwiches 143 

Sauce: 

Bechamel 39 

Brown 39 

Caramel 41 

Chocolate 41 

Cranberry 23 

Drawn Butter 39 

Eg-g 39 

Foamy Egg 41 

Giblet 81 

Hard 40 

Hollandaise i .. 39 

Indian 176 

Lemon I ^ 40 

Lemon II 40 

Mousseline 40 

Sterling 40 

Vanilla 40 

Sauces 37-41 

• Methods of Mixing 37 

Starchy 37-38 

Sauteing: General Directions for • 67 

Scalloped: 

Dishes, General Rules for Making 37 

Score Card for Bread 105 

Sherbet, Definition of 162 

-Grape 165 

Grape Milk ' 165 

Lemon 16>4 

Lemon Milk : 165 

Orange 165 

Orange Cream 165 

Short Cake I 151 

Short Cake II 151 

Slaw, Hot 138 

Snow Pudding 160 

Snow: 

Apple 152 

Orange 152 

Peach ; 152 

Soap, Hard 182 

Soufflfi: 

Cheese ^ 88 

Chocolate 147 

Cold Chicken 82 

Egg , 67 

Fish 86 

General Directions for Making 37 

Lemon 147 

Meat 74 

Nut 62 

Vegetable .' 62 

Soups .^ 91-9« 



246 INDEX 

Almond '. . 9-5 

Baked Bean with Tomato . , 95 

Bean and Tomato 94 

Cheese 95 

Corn 96- 

Cream 93 

Cream, General Directions for Making 37 

Cream of Salmon 93 

Cream of Tomato 93 

Emergency 94 

Julienne . . . . , 93 

Neapolitan 94 

Peanut 95 

Stock, Brown ■ 92 

Stock, White 92 

To Clear 91 

With Stock 91 

Without Stock 91 

Sour Cream Pie 61 

Southern Batter Bread 100 

Spanish Pickles 175 

Spiced Apples 22 

Spiced Cheese Pudding- ; 88 

SplnSich: 

A la CrSme ; 48i 

Boiled 48 

Sponge: 

Cake I 119 

Cake II 119 

Cake (White) 119 

Coffee 160 

Lemon 169 

Orange . . ; 160 

Spun Sugar- 35 

Squash: 

Baked 46 

Steamed 46 

Stale Bread, Uses for Ill 

Standard Cake 116 

Standardization of Oven Temperature 115 

Starch: 

Effect of Heat on 36 

Starchy Sauces 37-38 

Starchy Vegetables. General Directions for Cooking 4S 

Steak: 

Flank en Casserole 72 

Hamburg ■ 72 

Panbroiled 71 

Planked 71 

Steamed: 

Chocolate Pudding 153 

Pig Pudding 154 

Fruit Pudding IBS 

Tapioca Pudding 148 

Sterling Sauce 49 

Stew: 

Brown Meat, with Dumplings 72 

Oyster '96 



INDEX 247 

Stock: 

Brown Soup 92 

To Clear 91 

White Soup 92 

Stoves ., 5-9 

Alcohol 9 

Coal 5 

Gas g 

Gasoline 9 

Kerosene 9 

Structure and Management 5-9 

Strawberry: 

Bavarian 161 

Ice Cream 165 

Mousse 167 

Preserves 173 

Punch 16 

Roll 168 

Structure and Management of Stoves 5-9 

Stuffing for Chicken 81 

Suet Pudding I • 153 

Suet Pudding II 163 

Sugar: 

The Effect of Heat on 25 

Spun 35 

Stages of Cookery 25-2S 

Swedish: 

^Tea Ring 108 

/ Timble Cases 98 

Timble Irons, To Use 98 

Sweetbread and Cucumber Salad 139 

Sweetbreads, Creamed 76 

Sweet Potatoes: 

Baked 46 

Glazed 46 

Syrup 27 ; 163 

Caramel 27 

Taffy: 

Molasses 27 

Vinegar 28 

Tapioca: 

Chocolate .' 149 

Cream Pudding 148 

Fruit 149 

Steam Pudding 14« 

Tarts, Banbury 62 

Tartlets, Orange 6S 

Tea 15 

Punch 17 

Russian - .-^^ 17 

Timbale Cases, SVedish 9S 

Toast: 

'Dry 112 

French 113 

Imperial Sticks In' Rings . . . ; ' 112 

Milk •. 118 

Water 18 



248 INDEX 

Tomato : 

Catsup 178 

Jelly Salad 138 

Salads 136-137 

Tomatoes: 

Bamekin 49 

Sauted 49 

Soup 93 

Stuffed 48 

Tongue: 

Boiled 73 

In Aspic 75 

Turnips: 

Mashed 47 

Stuffed 47 

Vanilla Sauce 40 

Veal: 

Birds 77 

Breaded Cutlets 76 

Pressed . . '. 76 

Roast ...^ 77 

Vegetables 42-52 

Souffl§ 62 

Thickened with Egg 52 

General Discussion > 42 

Canningr 170 

Starchy. General Directions for Cooking 43 

Vinegar Taffy 28 

Wafers: 

Gluten 126 

Pecan Nut ■. . 122 

WaiERes 99 

Washington Pie ■. 153 

Water: 

Albumen . 18 

Apple 18 

Cinnamon 18 

Javelle' 182 

Rice 18 

Toast ■ 18 

Watercress: 

Salad 13B 

Sandwiches ; 142 

Whey ■ 19 

Whipped Cream 41 

Salad Dressing 133 

Sandwiches 145 

White: 

Bread (Sponge Method) 107 

Bread (Straight Dough Method) 106 

Cake, Almond 116 

Cake, Plain 116 

Cake, Sponge . . . . : 119 

Grape and Quince Jelly 180 

Salad 138 

Salad Dressing 133 

Yeast . . .■ 106 

Zwlebach : 109 



INDEX 249 



INDEX 

(the ETIQCETTE and 8BBTICE or THE TABLE) 



Breakfast 223 

Curving 224 

Carving a Fowl 225 

General Directions 225 

Suggestions 224 

Deportment, General 199, 200, 201 

Arrival and Departure of Guests 197 

Conversation at- Table 198, 201 

Use of Knife and Fork at Table 202 

Use of Napkin 202 

Use of Spoon 203 

Salt . . 220 

Dinner, Family 220 

Menu. 221 

Service 221, 222, 223 

Dinner, Formal 212 

Courses , 212 

Finger Bowls 201, 213, 214, 215 

Invitations 197 

Laying the Table 212 

Order of Service 212 

Service 212 

Seating 198 

Dinners, Informal 216 

Difference Between Formal and Informal 216, 217 

Order of Service 217 

Service 218, 219, 220 

Serving Utensils 206, 210, 213, 214, 218, 222 

Serving Table 221, 223 

Etiquette: 

Dinner 197, 198 

Public Dinner 198 

Table 198 

Garnishing of Foods 223, 224 

Good Manners, Why? 197 

Laying the Covers • 205 

Bread and Butter Plates 207, 209, 210, 216. 218, 222 

Finger Bowls 208 

Napkins 201, 205, 209, 218 

Nut and Bon Bon Dishes 207, 208 

Salt and Pepper 207 

Service Plates 207 

Water Glasses 205, 207, 209, 218, 222 

LiMicheon, Formal 215, 216 

Luncheon, Informal 223 

Serving Directions 213, 214, 215 

Coffee 215. 216 

Dessert , 211, 220, 221, 222, 215 

Fruit 215 

Plates 212 

Removal of Courses 210 



3g» INDEX 

Rolls 814 

Salad 211, 216. 219, 222 

Service Plates 212, 214 

Serving Table ; 21J, 221 

Silver ; 214 

Soup 200, 2U, 212, 213, 216, 218, 219, 222 

Vegetables 211, 221 

Styles of Service 211 

Compromise 211, 216, '220, 223 

English 211. 

Russian , 211 

Table Arrangement 205 

Chairs 20S 

Doilies 204 

Decorations ^ 804 

Laying of the Cloth 204 

Menus 215, 221 

Menu Cards 205 

Place Cards 265 

Placing of Dishes 221, 222 

Waitress, Duties of 208, 210, 211, 217 

Care of Dining Room 210 

Clearing the Table 210 

Crumbing the Table 210 

Dress 208 

Method of Handling Dishes ; 208, 209 

Personal Appearance 208 

ReHUing Water Glasses 20« 

Serving Tray 210 

Two Waitresses , 213 



