663 
4 
py 1 



1 



DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Department of Instruction, 
Teacher Training and Research 



RECIPES 

for Instruction in 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




Elementary and Intermediate 
Grades 



Published by the Authority of the 

BOARD OF EDUCATION 

City of Detroit 

1921 



DETROIT. PUBLIC SCHOOLS , 

Department of Instruction, 
Teacher Training and Research i 



RECIPES 

for Instruction in 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




Elementary and Intermediate 
Grades 



Published by the Authority of the 

BOARD OF EDUCATION 

City of Detroit 

1921 



\ 






Copyright, 1921, by Grace P. McAdam 

The right to print and modify this work for use in 

Detroit has been assigned to the 

Board of Education, 

City of Detroit 



SEP2I 1921 

'CI.A624464 



r4 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 



3- 



Preface 

This book is intended for use in the elementary and inter- 
mediate grades in the teaching of foods and cookery. It is primarily 
a recipe book but includes some facts about food as well as the 
principle and method of preparing the food. 

The recipes have been gathered from various sources and 
adapted to the work in school with the thought of economy through 
the use of least expensive materials. They are reliable, the por- 
tions given in each recipe are sufficient for the average family of 
six, and may be used satisfactorily in the home kitchen. 



DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



To the Student 

"The Three R's" have given you a range of "food for thought" 
— but in your everyday living you will always have with you the 
need of "The Fourth R" (Right Living) which means control of 
all the conditons that go to make for healthy, happy living — sleep, 
exercise, fresh air, food ; the most important of these is food, the 
good, wholesome everyday "food for the hungry." 

Preparation of food will be a pleasure if it is done well. "The 
best things are nearest . . . then do not grasp at the stars, but 
do life's plain, common work as it comes, certain that daily duties 
and daily bread are the sweetest things of life." 

This little book is intended to assist you in "the Fourth R" 
(Right Living) by giving you some important and useful facts about 
food — as well as about how to prepare food for meals in school and 
in your own home. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 



Table of Contents 

Chapter I. Introduction — Preliminary Lessons 

Personal Cleanliness 

Dishwashing 

Care of Sink 

Care of Floor 

Care of the Stove 

Care of Garbage Can 

Measurements 

Table of Abbreviations 

Table of Measurements 

Chapter II. Meals 

Planning the Day's Meals 

Some Important Things to Consider in Planning the 

Meals 
Some Typical Meal Plans 
Suggestive Menus 
Dining Room Service. 

Chapter III. Beverages 

Use of Beverages 

General Rules for Making Tea and Coffee 

Coffee 

Tea 

Cocoa 

Fruit Beverages 



Chapter IV. Energy-Giving or Fuel Foods — Carbohydrates 

Sugar in Fruits 
Sugar in Candy 
Starch in Cereals 
Principles of Cooking 
Rules for Cooking Cereals 
Starch in Vegetables 
Classification of Vegetables 
Sauces for Use with Vegetables 

Chapter V. Energy-Giving or Fuel Foods — Fats and Oils 

Sources and Uses of Fats and Oils in the Household 

Frying 

Butter 



DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Chapter VI. 


Body-Building Foo 




Milk 




Cream Soups 




Legumes 




Cheese 




Eggs 




Meat 




Left-Over Meats 




Fish 


Chapter VII. 


Body-Building and 



Mineral Matter in Fruits 
Mineral Matter in Vegetables 
Mineral Matter in Salads 



Chapter VIII. Flour Mixtures 



Chapter IX. 



Chapter X 



Chapter XI. 
Chapter XII. 



Wheat Flour 

Classification of Wheat Flour 

Corn 

Leavens 

Oven Tests 

Batters 

Muffins 

General Rules for Cakes 

Butter Cakes 

Frostings 

Sponge Cakes 

Doughs 

Bread 

Quick Breads 

Desserts 

Puddings 

Pudding Sauces 

Milk and Egg Combination Desserts 

Pastry 

Gelatin 

Frozen Desserts 

Preserving 

Principles and Methods of Preserving 
Methods of Canning Fruits and Vegetables 
Making Syrups 

Time Table for Cold Pack Canning 
Methods of Making Jelly 

Sandwiches 

Invalid Cookery 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 



Chapter I. 

Introduction — Preliminary Lessons 

The best type of housekeeper feels that every part of her work is worth 
doing well. The kitchen is her workshop for the care and preparation of 
food for the family's use. It should be the cleanest room in the house. 

When learning to cook it is very necessary to measure all ingredients 
with exactness if the best results are to be obtained. 

The following directions will assist you in the proper care of the kitchen 
and in obtaining good results in cooking. 

Personal Cleanliness — 

1. A wash dress is to be preferred, or the dress well covered with an 
apron. 

2. The hair should be tied or pinned back and covered so that no hairs 
may fall into the cooking. 

3. The hands should be thoroughly washed with soap and water be- 
fore you begin any cooking. 

4. When cooking, wash your hands whenever they become sticky or 
soiled, or after touching your hair or pocket handkerchief. Never 
wipe them on your handkerchief or a dish towel. 

5. The best way to taste what you are cooking is to take a little of the 
food you are cooking up in a measuring spoon, put it in a teaspoon 
and taste from the teaspoon. 

Dishwashing — 

Preparation: 

1. Collect all dishes, scraping and rinsing them as well, and pile to- 
gether dishes that are alike. 

2. Soak dishes which have contained starch, milk, or eggs in cold 
water. Soak dishes which have contained fat or sugar in hot water. 

3. Wipe out all greasy pans with paper and put paper in the garbage 
can. 

4. Fill two dishpans about two-thirds full with hot water, make one 
soapy but do not leave soap in the water; use the other for rinsing. 

Directions for Washing: 

1. Wash the cleanest dishes first, usually in the following order — glass, 
cups, saucers, silverware, plates, remaining china, cooking utensils. 
Rinse all dishes in clear hot water, changing the water as often as 
necessary. 

2. Scour kitchen knives, forks and pans with Sapolio or cleaning powder. 

3. Wooden handles should not be soaked. Do not put the cogs of 
the Dover-beater in water. 



DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



4. Table should be scrubbed with clean hot water and soap or powder, 
rinsed and dried thoroughly. 

5. Towels should be washed in clean hot soapy water and rinsed in 
clear water. 

6. Wash and dry dishpans inside and out. 

Care of the Sink — 

Wash enameled sinks with soap and water, using Sapolio, or Cleanser, 
to remove stains. Rinse the sink by letting a generous supply of hot 
water run down the drain pipe. Kerosene cuts any grease readily. 
Rinse well after using. Special cleaning of the drain pipe is made by 
pouring a solution of washing soda down the pipe, (YiC soda to two 
quarts water) and then using much hot water to rinse the pipe. 

Care of the Floor — 

Remove or cover all food before sweeping. Sweep with short firm 
strokes, keeping the broom close to the floor, raising as little dust as 
possible. Gather the dust into a small spot and take up with a brush 
and dustpan. 

Care of the Stove — 

If anything is spilled on the stove, wipe off immediately with a cloth 
or paper. Clean stove with a little kerosene on a cloth. Wash zinc 
under burners with soap and water and wipe dry. 

Care of Garbage Can — 

Place a clean newspaper in the can. Put only solid material in the 
can; drain off all liquid. Keep can covered. Scald and scrub out the 
can thoroughly each week. 

Measurements — 

Accurate measurements are necessary to success in cooking. All 
measurements are level. 

1. In measuring dry material, fill the measure and level off with a 
knife. 

2. When one-half a spoonful is desired, divide the material lengthwise 
of the spoon and scrape out one-half; for one-fourth of a spoonful, 
divide crosswise the remaining half. 

3. A cupfulor spoonful is all the cup or spoon will hold. 

4. To measure any solid fat, pack firmly in the measure and level off 
with a knife. 

Table of Abbreviations — 

c— cup qt. — quart 

tb. — tablespoon oz. — ounce 

t. — teaspoon lb. — pound 
pt. — pint 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 



Table of Measurements 



3 teaspoons equal 1 tablespoon 

16 tablespoons equal 1 cup 

2 CU P S equal 1 pint 

2 tablespoons butter ^ qual j ounce 

4 tablespoons flour equal x ounce 

2 cups butter equaI j pound 

4 cups pastry flour equal ± pound 

2 cups' granulated sugar equal 1 pound 

2J6 cups powdered sugar equal 1 pound 

Wa cups rolled oats _ , « , 

07/ . equal 1 pound 

2^ cups nee equa , 1 pound 

t(; c«PS graham flour ; equa , , d 

W& cups entire wheat flour ... , H , 

4V 3 cups coffee eqUa * P ° und 

2 cups chopped meat . . .'.'.'.'. ^ J P ° Und 

Q . equal 1 pound 

9 large eggs , 

t ,„.„ , * equal 1 pound 

l well beaten egg .... , „ ; , , 

55 equal 4 tablespoons 

Chapter II. 

Meals 

Planning the Day's Meals: 

(1) The meals of the day should be planned to meet the needs of all 
members of the family. "Little children should not eat all foods that are 
allowable to adults, nor should the grown members of the famdy be Hmited 
to the same simphcty of diet as the children, for children have undeveLed 
digestive organs that will be overtaxed by heavy foods." unaeveioped 

m „ T he , day ' s meals should supply all the substances needed to build the 
muscle bone, nerve, blood; to provide energy for the day's activities and 
keep the body in good working order. activities ana 

The Meals Should Contain: 

Foods rich in Carbohydrates (energy-giving or fuel foods ) 
Sugar— As found in sugar cane, honey and dried fruits 
Starch— As found in cereals and vegetables and tapioca, sago, arrowroot. 

Foods rich in Fats and Oils (energy giving or fuel foods ) 
Animal — Butter, cream, fat of meat. 
Vegetable — Olive oil, mazola, crisco, etc. 

Foods rich in Protein (body-builders.) 

Milk, eggs, cheese, meat, fish, peas, beans, nuts. 

Foods rich in Mineral Matter (body-builder and regulator ) 

Iron, lime, phosphorus, etc. Found in fruits, * vegetables, milk eggs 
whole grains, lean meat. ' ' 

Foods containing Vitamines (growth promoters ) 

Found in milk butter, yolk of egg, meat, green leaf vegetables, cereals 
oranges and lemons. 

A generous quantity of water should be used as a beverage. 
Water — body regulator. 



10 



DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



(2) Some important things to consider in planning meals. 

The main part of the meals of each day should consist of simply pre- 
pared, mild-flavored, non-stimulating, and easily digested foods. 

Milk should be used liberally in order to replace a part of the meat in the 
average dietary, because, of all foods, it is richest in lime and because it is 
rich in those dietary factors which are necessary for growth and for life 
itself. No food in the dietary has greater importance than milk. One quart 
a day for growing boys and girls. 

Those cereals and cereal foods that contain the larger part of the grain 
should be given preference in the dietary as they contain more mineral matter 
than more highly milled grains. 

Eggs should be used as long as they can be afforded. One egg a day for 
each child in the family; and one or two for each adult, are sufficient. 

Sweets in the dietary are unquestionably desirable, but they should be 
served in such a manner as not to reduce the appetite for other foods and not 
to satisfy the appetite with sweet foods only. 

Fruits' and vegetables should be used liberally in the dietary, for they are 
among nature's best body-cleansing and regulating agents. They furnish 
substances which stimulate the activity of the intestine, neutralize the harm- 
ful acids produced by the tissues', keep both intestine and blood in good 
condition and provide the growth-promoting dietary factors. 

Enough water should be consumed to maintain the body in clean, whole- 
some condition. 



(3) Some typical meal plans. 



1 



BREAKFAST PLANS 



I 


II 




III 


IV 


V 


Fruit 


Fruit 




Fruit 


Fruit 


Fruit 


Bread 


Cereal 




Meat 


Cereal 


Cereal 


Beverage 


Bread 




Bread 


Meat 


Meat 




Beverage 




Beverage 


©read 
Beverage 


Other hot dish 
Bread 


Bread maj 


r mean toast or 


hot 


bread. 




Beverage 



LUNCHEON PLANS 



Hot dish 

Bread and butter 

Beverage 



II 
Hot dish 

Bread and butter 
Simple dessert 
Beverage 



III 
Soup 

Another hot dish 
Bread and butter 
Dessert 
Beverage 



IV 
Soup 

2 other hot dishes 
Salad 
Dessert 
Beverage 



DINNER PLANS 



I 
2 hot dishes 
(meat and vegetable) 
Bread and butter 
Dessert 



II 
Soup 
2 or 3 other hot dishes' 

(as meat and 2 vegs.) 
Bread and butter 
Dessert 
Beverage 



III 
Soup 

2 or 3 hot dishes 
a relish (pickles, jelly) 
Bread and butter 
Salad 
Dessert 
Beverage 



Fish or fowl may be substituted for meat. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 



11 



(4) Suggested menus: 

No. I 

Breakfast 
Oranges 

Rolled oats with cream 
Toast 
Coffee — milk or cocoa for children 



Luncheon 

Macaroni and cheese 

Biscuits — baked apples 

Tea for adults. Milk for children 

Dinner 

Meat loaf — brown gravy 

Baked potatoes — spinach 

Graham bread 

Cream Tapioca 

Milk for children 

Tea or coffee for adults 

(5) Dining room service: 



No. II 

Breakfast 
Prunes 

Breakfast Cereal 
Bacon — graham muffins 
Coffee — milk for children 

Luncheon 

Cream of pea soup 
Whole wheat bread 
Gingerbread — apple sauce 

or other stewed fruit 
Tea. Milk for children 

Dinner 

Pot roast — brown gravy 
Boiled potatoes 
Vegetable Salad — bread 
Baked custard 
Milk for children 
Tea or coffee for adults 



Table Service 

On the proper table service much of the comfort, cheerfulness and re- 
finement of the family depend. No amount of lavishness and perfection in 
the preparation of the food will compensate for poor arrangement and serv- 
ice in the dining room. The most perfect order, and yet the greatest freedom, 
should exist. 

No matter what the style of living may be — and this applies to the sim- 
plest as well as the most elaborate households — there should always be a 
care to make the table and food pleasing to the eye. Well-laundered table 
linen, table ware that has been properly washed and wiped and that is ar- 
ranged in an orderly manner, are the strongest factors in making a table 
elegant and attractive. A few flowers loosely arranged, a bunch of ferns, or 
a small plant or fern will adorn and brighten a table more than any other 
one thing that can be used. Such decorations are in place on the humblest 
or the most sumptuous tables. 

Directions for Laying the Table 

1. See that the dining room is in perfect order, that the air is fresh 
and sweet, warm in winter and cool as' possible in summer. 

2. Cover the table with a silence cloth of felt or Canton flannel. Over 
this spread a spotless tablecloth evenly, the middle fold upward, dividing the 
table exactly in half. 

3. Place silver one inch in from edge of table, allowing width of largest 
plate between knife and fork. 

4. Place knife at right of the plate with sharp edge of blade turned 
towards plate. 

5. Place fork at left, with tines turned up. 

6. Place spoons at right. 

7. Place silver in order in which it is to be used, the article used first 
being farthest from the plate. 

8. Place tumbler at tip of knife and bread and butter plate at tip of fork.. 

9. Place napkin, straight and square, at left of fork. 



12 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

10. Place pepper and salt near corners or one of each between the places 
for two people. 

11. Place carving knife at right and fork at left of host and the table- 
spoons beside the dishes to be served. 

12. Place the coffee pot, sugar basin, cream pitcher, cups and saucers in 
front of hostess. 

13. Arrange the chairs so far away that they need be pulled out only 
a little while the family are being seated. 

General Directions for Serving 

1. Everything should be ready before the meal is announced. 

2. Fill water glasses and cut the bread the last thing. 

3. Dishes for hot food should be warm. Dishes for cold foods should be 
cold. 

4. Food is served from the table by host and hostess or from side table 
by waitress. 

5. The host serves meat, fish and game. 

6. The hostess serves tea, coffee, chocolate, salad, dessert. 

7. Dishes are held in the palm of the left hand on folded napkin or 
placed on a tray covered with a doily. 

8. Pass everything to the left if the guest is to take a portion, holding 
the dish firmly and low, and near enough that it may be within easy reach. 

9. Things that do not admit of choice place from the right. 

10. Remove all dishes from the right, with the exception of bread and 
butter plates, taking serving dishes first and then the individual dishes 

11. Before serving dessert remove all dishes not necessary for next 
course, and brush crumbs from cloth. 

12. Serve hostess first and host last, serving those at right of hostess, 
then those at left. 

13. Keep glasses filled. To fill glasses do not remove from table. Never 
fill glasses more than three-fourths full. Handle the glass at the base. 

14. Remove everything relating to one course before serving another. 

15. In removing a course take large dishes or platters first, then the 
plates and knives and forks. 

16. If there is no waitress, one of the family quietly removes the plates 
and prepares the table for the next course. 

Graceful and easy table manners and a knowledge of how to serve and 
how to be served add to the comfort and pleasure of one's family and friends 
in the dining room. 

Common Rules of Table Manners 

1. Personal neatness and cleanliness. 

2. Sit erect, with feet on the floor and elbows' away from the table. 

3. Eat slowly and quietly. 

4. Do not play with the utensils on the table. 

5. Talk only about cheerful and pleasant things. 

6. Do not criticize the food. 

7. Wipe lips frequently during the meal. 

8. Spoons should be used only for liquid or semi-liquid foods. Use 
a fork for salads, vegetables and dessert when possible. 

9. Drink quietly from the side of the spoon, never from the tip. In 
filling the spoon, move it away from you. 

10. Do not tip soup plate for the last drop. 

11. Spoons should not be left in cups when not being-used. 

12. Handle a drinking glass near the base. 

13. Toothpicks, like all other toilet articles', should be used in private. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 13 

Chapter III. 

Beverages 

A beverage is any drink. Water is the beverage provided by Nature for 
man. Water is an essential to life. All beverages contain a large percentage 
of water, and their uses to the body arc: 

1. To quench thirst. 

2. To introduce water into the circulation. 

3. To assist in carrying off waste. 

4. To aid in the processes of digestion. 

5. To regulate temperature by evaporation of perspiration. 

General Rules for Making Tea and Coffee 

1. Keep the tea and coffee in closely covered jars. It is better to buy 
coffee unground. 

:.'. Do not use tin tea or coffee pots. 

3. Scald tea and coffee pots before using. 

4. Use freshly boiled water in making tea and coffee. 

Boiling tea or letting tea or coffee stand longer than five minutes on the 
leaves or grounds will extract the tannin. 

Boiled Coffee (proportion for 1 cupful) 

1 heaping tb. coarsely ground I t1>. cold water 

coffee (1 egg shell or y 2 egg white is 

1 tl>. cold water sufficient for 8 heaping tb. of 

1 c. boiling water ground coffee) 

Bit of crushed egg shell or little 
g white. 
Wash egg. Put coffee, egg shell or white of egg and first quantity of 
cold water into coffee pot. Mix; then add boiling water and boil for 3 
minutes. Remove from tire, pour out a little of the coffee, in order to clear 
spout; return to coffee pot; add the second quantity of cold water. Allow to 
stand for about 5 minutes in a warm place before serving. If the spout 
is not covered, insert a piece of paper so the aroma will be retained. 

Tea 

~ t. tea :.' e. boiling water 

Scald a granite or earthenware tea pot. Put in tea, and add boiling 
water. Let stand 3 to 5 minutes. Serve at once. 

Russian Tea 

Follow recipe for making tea. Serve hot with a thin slice of lemon, from 
which seeds have been removed, and sugar in each cup. Milk or cream 
should never lie served with Russian tea. 

Iced Tea 

4 t. tea 2 c. boiling water 

Follow recipe for making tea. Strain into glasses one-third filled with 
finely cracked ice. Sweeten to taste. Serve with lemon. 

Cocoa 

3 tb. cocoa 2 c. boiling water 

3 tb. sugar 2 c. milk (scalded) 

Few grains salt 
]\Iix dry ingredients together in a saucepan. Add boiling water slowly, 
mixing thoroughly. Boil five minutes. While cocoa is boiling, scald the 
milk in a double boiler. Then stir boiling cocoa into the scalded milk and 
beat with a Dover beater before serving. 



14 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

FRUIT BEVERAGES 
Lemonade (One Glass) 

Mix the juice of half a lemon and two or three teaspoonfuls of sugar 
(sugar-syrup is better if at hand) ; mix until the sugar is dissolved, then fill 
with cold water and shaved ice. 

Lemonade 

1 c. sugar Vi c. lemon juice 

1 pt. water 
Make syrup by boiling sugar and water 10 minutes; cool, add fruit juice 
and dilute with ice water to suit individual tastes. Lemon syrup may be 
bottled and kept on hand to use as needed. Serves' 6. 

Pineapple Lemonade 

1 pt. water 1 pt. ice water 

1 c. sugar 1 can grated pineapple 

Juice 3 lemons 
Make syrup by boiling water and sugar ten minutes; .cool, add pineapple 
and lemon juice, strain, and add ice water. Serves six. 

Chapter IV. 

Energy-Giving or Fuel Foods: Carbohydrates — Sugar and Starch 

SUGAR 

Sugar is sweet crystaline substance and like starch, is a carbohydrate. 

It differs from starch in being soluble in cold water and in its sweet 
taste. 

Sugar is obtained from sugar cane, sugar beets, sorghum, and sugar 
maple. 

Sugar ranks high as an energy-giving food. It passes quickly into the 
circulation, so it produces energy in a very short time. It forms part of 
the rations' of the soldiers of this and other countries. 

Sugar is a great preservative, hence its use in preserving fruits and milk. 

Fruits 

The chief foodstuffs' in fruits are carbohydrates and mineral matter. 

Fresh fruits' contain from 75% to 95% water, and are especially valuable 
for mineral matter. 

Dried fruits' as figs, dates, prunes and raisins contain a large quantity of 
sugar. 

Stewed Prunes 

Wash the prunes through several cold waters, cover them with fresh 
cold water, and soak over night. Next day, turn them with the water into 
a porcelain-lined kettle; and let them simmer very gently until tender. When 
nearly done add sugar to taste and finish cooking. J4 c - sugar to 1 lb. prunes. 
A slice of lemon may be added to the syrup while simmering, if liked. 

Dried peaches may be stewed in the same way. 

Baked Bananas 

6 bananas Vs c. sugar 

2 tb. melted butter 2 tb. lemon juice 

Remove the skins from bananas and cut in halves lengthwise. Place 
in a shallow granite pan and baste with the butter, sugar and lemon juice 
mixed together, using half the mixture. Bake twenty minutes in a slow 
oven, basting during baking with remaining mixture. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 15 



Candy 

Sugar exists in candy in concentrated form, and is an energy or fuel 
giving food, hut it should not he eaten to excess nor before meals. If too 
much is eaten at a time it is likely to ferment in the stomach. 

In cooking sugar for candy use an agate or an iron pan, as it is 'ess 
liable to burn than in tin. 

Butter pans for candy before it is cooked. 

Have ready some cold water in which to test the candy. Water should 
be changed for each test. 

When the candy is poured into the pan, do not scrape the saucepan 
Over it, nor allow any of the scrapings to fall into it. 

Scraping or stirring the candy while cooling, after it has been poured 
into the pan will cause it to become sugary. 

Acid substances, like vinegar or cream of tartar^ added to the candy 
while cooking will prevent it graining. 

Butter Taffy 

2 c. brown sugar y x c. butter 

1 c. water 
Melt butter in saucepan and add sugar and water. Bring to boiling 
point and let boil, without stirring, until mixture becomes brittle when 
tried in cold water. Pour into a buttered pan. cool slightly, and mark into 
squares. 

Peanut Candy 

: c. sugar 1 cup chopped peanuts 

salt 
Put sugar into a perfectly smooth pan. place on the stove and stir until 
sugar is melted, taking care to keep the sugar from the sides. Add the nut 
meats and pour at once into a buttered pan. 

Ice Cream Candy 

2 c. sugar 1 tl>. vinegar 

Yz c. water y 2 t. cream of tartar 

Boil all together without stirring, until it will harden in cold water. 

Pour on a well greased plate to cool. As edges cool, fold towards center. 

When nearly cold pour % t. vanilla over the top. Pull until white and 

glossy. Cut in pieces with scissors tor serving. 

Chocolate Fudge 

2 c. sugar 1 scant c. milk 

:.' sq. of Baker's chocolate l / 2 t. vanilla 

2 tb. Karo 2 tb. butter 

Cook all ingredients together until it will form a soft ball when dropped 
into cold water. Stir occasionally while cooking but do not scrape sides of 
pan with spoon as the sugar granules which form on sides of pan must 
not be allowed to fall into the candy, as these make the candy granulate. 
When done remove pan from fire and quickly place it in another pan of cold 
water to instantly stop cooking. When candy is cold, beat it until it begins 
to thicken. Pour into a buttered pan. cut in squares. 



16 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Pinoche 

2 c. light brown sugar 4 tb. butter 

y 2 c. milk 1 c. nut meats 

y 2 t. vanilla 
Boil the first three ingredients until a soft ball can be formed in cold 
water. Remove from fire, cool, add nut meats and vanilla and beat until 
creamy. Pour into buttered pans. When cool cut into squares. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy 

V/t. c. sugar 2 t. butter 

Y2 c. milk Vz c shredded cocoanut 

y 2 t. vanilla 
Put butter into saucepan, when melted add sugar and milk and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Heat to boiling point and boil 12 minutes. Remove 
from fire, add cocoanut and vanilla and beat until creamy and mixture begins 
to sugar slightly around edge of saucepan. Pour at once into a buttered pan, 
cool and cut into squares. y 2 c. nut meats, broken in pieces, may be used in 
place of cocoanut. 

Sea Foam 

2 c. granulated sugar y 2 c corn syrup 

y 2 c. water 1 c. nut meats 

2 egg whites 
Cook sugar, water and syrup together until it will harden in cold water. 
Take from the fire, stir in the nut meats which have been broken in small 
pieces and add gradually, stirring constantly, to the beaten whites. Beat until 
creamy consistency and turn into a buttered mould; cool and cut into squares. 

Cereals 

Cereals are grains or grasses, the seeds of which are used for food. 

Kinds of cereals — Wheat, oats, Indian corn or maize, rye, buckwheat, 
barley, rice; from these are prepared the various breakfast foods. 

Composition — Starch, cellulose, protein, mineral salts, fat and water. 

Starch — Starch is a fine, white, glistening powder, insoluble in cold 
water, but partly soluble in hot water, with which it forms a jelly-like paste. 

Principle of Cooking Cereals 

1. Complete opening of starch granules by the boiling temperature of 
water. 

2. Softening of the fibre by long continued low temperature, with a 
supply of water present. 

Rules for Cooking Cereals 

Put water and salt in top of double boiler, and place over fire. When 
water boils, add the cereal gradually, stirring constantly, cook for five minutes; 
then place in lower part of boiler which should contain boiling water, and 
cook for thirty minutes. 

Rolled Oats 

1 c. Quaker Oats 3 c. water 

y 2 t. salt 

Cream of Wheat 

1 c. Cream of Wheat 6 c. water 

V-A. t. salt 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 17 



Corn Meal Mush 



1 c. corn meal 4 c water 

1 t. salt 
Cook corn meal for three hours for fried mush. Pour into greased 
baking powder cans. Cover. When cool remove from can, cut in thin slices 
roll in flour. Brown in a little hot fat. Serve with syrup! 

Macaroni and Cheese 

c,H^ reak t maca 5°" i -i n on .e-inch pieces. Put 2 c. macaroni in 2 qts. boiling 
salted water and boil until soft. Dram and rinse in cold water to harder? 
outside. Make 2 c. thin white sauce and add H c. grated cheese. Stir until 
cheese is melted. Put macaroni into a buttered baking-dish and pour the 
sauce over it. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs and put into oven to reheat 
and brown crumbs. 

Spaghetti and Tomato Sauce 

Boil spaghetti in salted water forty-five minutes or till very tender Drain 
and reheat in tomato sauce. 

If liked, sprinkle with grated cheese. 

Or cover spaghetti with tomato sauce, sprinkle with buttered crumbs 
and bake till brown. 

Boiled Rice 

1 c - rf ce 2 t. salt 

3 qts. boiling water 

Put water and salt in saucepan to boil. Pick over rice, put in a strainer- 
place in bowl of cold water. Rub between the hands to remove dust emptying 
water in bowl until it becomes clear, when rice is clean. Cook rapidly thirty 
minutes, or until a kernel may be easily crushed between thumb and finger 
adding water as it boils away. Drain in a strainer, return to saucepan and 
shake on stove. Stir with a fork to prevent kernels from getting crushed. 

Steamed Rice 

1 c - rice %H c. to 3% c. water 

1 t. salt (according to age of rice) 

Put water and salt in top of double boiler, place directly over fire and 
when water boils add gradually the well-washed rice, stirring with a fork to 
prevent the kernels from adhering to the boiler. Boil five minutes, cover 
place over under part of double boiler, and steam about forty-five minutes,' 
or until the kernels are soft; uncover, that steam may escape. When rice is 
steamed for a simple dessert, use one-half quantity of water given in recipe, 
and steam until rice has absorbed water; then add scalded milk for the 
remaining liquid. 

Rice and Cheese 

2 c. boiled rice y 2 c. chopped cheese 

1 c. buttered crumbs 1 tb. butter 

Few grains cayenne Milk 

Cover bottom of a buttered baking dish with rice. Sprinkle with a few 
grains cayenne and cheese; and dot with butter. Repeat and add milk to 
half the depth of dish. Cover with crumbs and bake to heat mixture and 
brown crumbs. 



18 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Rice and Tomatoes 

y 2 c. rice 2 c. hot stewed tomatoes 

1 tb. butter y s t. pepper 

1 t. salt 1 c. boiling water 

Pick over rice, place in a strainer in a bowl of cold water and wash 
well, rubbing between the hands. Use several waters for washing rice. 
Melt butter in a frying pan, add rice, drained from water, and cook until it 
becomes a light brown, stirring constantly. Put the boiling water in top of 
double boiler, add rice and steam until rice has absorbed water. Add to- 
matoes and seasoning and cook until rice is soft. Serve as a vegetable. 

Vegetables 

We eat as vegetables the fruits or seed vessels of some plants; of others 
the root, the leaves or some other part. Vegetables, like fruits, contain salt 
important to health. There are two classes of vegetables — those growing 
under ground, such as potatoes, carrots and parsnips, valuable for starch 
and sugar and mineral matter, and those growing above ground, or green 
vegetables, such as' lettuce and spinach, mostly valuable for mineral matter. 

Vegetables are economical food when used in season, and are a very 
necessary part of the diet. In cooking those rich in mineral, such as spinach, 
peas, oyster plant, a small amount of water should be used, so that the 
minerals may not be lost by dissolving in the water. 

The woody part of vegetables is called cellulose. This is not digestible 
but is important and is suitable to combine with such concentrated foods as 
eggs and milk. If possible, at least two vegetables should be found in every 
dinner, and vegetables should form a large part of our diet in spring and 
summer. 

How to Buy 

1. Root vegetables should be uniform in size, sound, the skins firm. 

2. Head vegetables' should be solid with but few waste leaves on the 
outside. 

3. Vegetables with hard rinds should be sound and firm. 

4. Asparagus should be even in size, the stalks not bitten by insects. 

5. Cauliflower should be firm and white, free from blemishes, fine in 
texture. 

6. Peas' should have crisp pods well filled but not too full. 

7. String beans should be crisp and snap easily. 
All leaf vegetables should be crisp, not wilted. 

Summer vegetables should be cooked as soon after gathering as pos- 
sible. Wilted vegetables' may be freshened by allowing to stand in cold 
water. 

In using canned goods, empty the contents of the can as soon as opened, 
otherwise the acid in the vegetables may act upon the tin and form poison- 
ous compounds. 

Vegetables should be washed in cold water and the larger varieties 
scrubbed with a small brush kept for this purpose. 

' Classification of Vegetables 

The parts of vegetables used for foods are seeds, roots, leaves, stalks, 
fruits, shoots, tubers, bulbs, flowers. 
Seeds: Peas, beans, corn. 
Roots: Carrots, parsnips, beets, turnips. 
Leaves: Spinach, lettuce, cabbage. 
Stalks: Celery, rhubarb. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 19 



Fruits: Tomatoes, eggplant, pumpkin, cucumber. 
Shoots: Asparagus. 
Tubers: Potatoes. 
Bulbs: Onions. 
Flowers: Cauliflowers. 

Rules for Cooking Vegetables 

1. Use vegetables which are in season, and select medium sized or 
rather small vegetables. 

2. Wash thoroughly in cold water, and if wilted allow to soak until 
freshened. 

3. Green, above ground, vegetables should be cooked in boiling salted 
water uncovered. 

4. Underground vegetables, cook in boiling salted water, covered. 

5. Strongly flavored vegetables such as cabbages and onions, should 
be cooked uncovered. Change the water over onions once while cooking. 

6. Vegetables should be cooked only until tender and served plain, 
with salt, pepper, butter or milk, or creamed with a white sauce. 

7. Use the cooking water, if palatable, in sauce, soup-stock, cream of 
vegetable soup, etc. 

8. The time required to cook any given vegetable depends upon its size, 
age, and freshness. Dried or wilted vegetables cook more quickly if first 
soaked in cold water. 

Baked Potatoes 

Select medium-sized potatoes. Wash them, lay them in a shallow pan. 
Bake forty-five minutes in a hot oven, turning them occasionally in order 
that they may cook evenly. Before serving, break skins slightly in order 
that the steam may escape. (To make skins tender grease before baking). 

Boiled Potatoes 

Put water to boil. Wash, pare medium-sized potatoes. Cook in salted 
boiling water twenty-five minutes or until tender. Do not let water boil 
rapidly, as the outside of potato will break before the center is cooked. Drain 
quickly. Shake over stove to let steam escape. Serve in an uncovered vege- 
table dish. 

Mashed Potatoes 

6 boiled potatoes . ~ tb. butter 

y 2 c. hot milk V 2 t. salt 

J4 t. pepper 
Mash potatoes in kettle in which they are cooked. Add seasoning and 
hot milk. Beat with a fork quickly until light and creamy. Turn into a 
dish. Do not press down or smooth them over. 

Potatoes on the Half Shell 

Cut baked potatoes in halves lengthwise. Remove centers carefully. 
Mash, season to taste with salt, pepper and butter. Moisten with hot milk. 
Pile potatoes back lightly in the shell Put in oven to reheat, and brown 
slightly. 

Mashed Potato Cake 

Shape cold mashed potatoes , into small, round cake. Put in a pan, 
brush with milk and bake until a golden brown, or roll in flour and saute in 
hot fat. 



20 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Creamed Potatoes 

Reheat two cups cold boiled potatoes, cut in neat pieces, with 1%. c. 
white sauce, or cut raw potatoes into cubes, boil until tender, add to white 
sauce. 

Potatoes Au Gratin 

Put creamed potatoes in a buttered baking dish, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and bake on top grate of oven until crumbs are browned. If desired, 
add ^4 c - grated cheese to white sauce in which potatoes are creamed. 

To Butter Crumbs 

Allow 1 tb. of butter for each cup of crumbs. Melt butter and stir crumbs 
into it lightly with a fork. 

Browned Potatoes 

Pare the potatoes' and parboil ten minutes; drain and put on the rack 
in a pan in which meat is roasting. Baste when the meat is basted. 

Raw Scalloped Potatoes 

Butter a baking dish. Slice raw potatoes into cold water, drain and put 
in the baking dish, dotting between the layers with butter and sprinkling 
with salt, pepper, and flour. A few drops of onion juice may be added. Add 
milk to level of potatoes and bake in a moderate oven until tender, about l 1 /^ 
hours. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Two tb. butter or drippings melted in pan; 1 small onion sliced thin, 
browned in butter; four cold boiled potatoes cut in one-fourth inch slices 
sprinkled with salt and pepper. Stir until heated. Let stand until potatoes 
are browned underneath, turn and brown on other side. Sprinkle with 1 t. 
finely chopped parsley. 

To Chop Parsley 

Remove leaves from stems of parsley. Dry on a towel. Gather closely 
between thumb and finger and cut through and through with a knife, holding 
point of knife on the board, and with a circular motion cut parsley fine. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

6 med. sized sweet potatoes 4 tb. water 

l / 2 c. sugar 1 tb. butter 

Wash and pare potatoes, and cook in boiling salted water for ten min- 
utes. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, and place in buttered pan. Make a 
syrup by boiling the sugar and water for ten minutes, then add butter. 
Brush potatoes with syrup and bake fifteen minutes, basting twice with the 
syrup. 

Creamed Carrots 

Wash and scrape six medium sized carrots. Cut in one-fourth inch 
cubes, one-fourth inch slices' or fine strips. Cook in boiling salted water 
twenty-five minutes or until tender, drain. Mix with one cup white sauce. 
Vegetable oysters, turnips and parsnips may be used in the same way. 

Mashed Turnips 

Wash, remove thick paring from turnips. Cut in slices or quarters. 
Cook in boiling salted water until soft, drain, mash, season with salt, pep- 
per and butter. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 21 



Creamed Peas 

B «* Dr ^' n ' " n \# * Can ? f „ peas -. , Cook five m^utes in boiling water or until 
solt. Dram. Mix carefully with 1 c. hot white sauce. 

Succotash 

1 pt. Lima or kidney beans i c . milk or cream 

1 pt. corn cut from cob 2 tb. butter 

Salt and pepper to taste 
Cook beans in boiling water twenty-five minutes, add % t soda boil 
one minute and drain. Add corn, milk, and cook five minutes, add salt and 
cook three minutes longer. This may also be made from canned corn and 
Deans. 

Green Corn Fritters 
1 c. corn pulp 14 c fl our 

J e «8 1 t. butter 

' 2 *• sa ' t 14 t. pepper 

Remove husks and silky fibres from corn. Hold corncobs on a board 
ends downwards, and with sharp knife cut through kernels. Press out the 
pulp with the back of the knife, being careful not to work so closely as to 
remove hulls. Mix corn well-beaten egg and dry ingredients together, and 
lastly add butter which has been melted and slightly cooled. Beat batter 
well, and drop by spoonfuls on a well-greased griddle. When air bubbles are 
seen and fritters have a dry appearance on surface, turn them and cook on 
the other. side until brown. 

Creamed Peas in Turnip Cups 

Wash, pare six medium sized purple top turnips. Remove slice from 

both ends, scoop out center with teaspoon, forming a hollow cup Cook 

twenty minutes in boiling salted water until tender. Drain Fill with 
creamed peas. Serve hot. 

Sauces 

White Sauce, 1 

2 tb. butter 1 c . m \] k 

2 tb. flour J4 t . salt 

Few grains pepper 
Melt butter, add flour and seasoning. Mix smoothly, add milk slowly 
stirring until smooth and glossy. 

White Sauce, 2 

1 c. milk 1 t b. flour 
Va t. salt 1 tb. butter 

Rub butter and flour together in bowl until creamv. Scald milk in double 
boiler and add gradually to butter and flour. Return to double boiler add 
seasoning and cook until thick. 

» Tomato Sauce 

2 c. strained tomatoes 1 t. salt 

4 tb. butter y 8 * t . pepper 

4 tb. flour 1 t . onion juice 

Prepare the same as white sauce. 



DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Erown Gravy 

Pour off all the fat from the dripping-pan in which beef has been roasted, 
with the exception of 3 tb. Add 3 tb. flour and stir till brown. Add 
gradually 1^ c hot water. Cook five minutes or till thick and smooth. 
Season with salt and pepper. Strain if necessary. 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

l l / 2 c. hot water ^ t. pepper 

V 2 t. salt 3 tb. flour 

Vi c. butter 
Melt one-half the butter. Mix flour and seasonings, add to butter, mix 
thoroughly, then add hot water gradually. Boil five minutes' and add re- 
maining butter cut in small pieces. 

Egg Sauce 

Add two hard-cooked eggs cut in one-fourth inch slices to drawn butter 
sauce. 

Parsley Butter 

2 tb. finely chopped parsley V 2 t. salt 

Y\ c. butter y% t. pepper 

2 tb. lemon juice 
Cream butter, add salt, pepper, parsley, and then lemon juice very slowly. 

Chapter V. 
Energy-Giving or Fuel Foods — Fats and Oils 

Sources of Fats and Oils 

I. Animal Kingdom. 

From this source we obtain the hard, solid fats. They are found directly 
under the skin of animals and around the organs. 

II. Vegetable Kingdom. 

From this source come the liquid fats or oils. These are obtained from 
nuts, seeds, and some fruits. 

Uses of Fats and Oils in the Household 



1 — Cooking agent. 

a — Sauteing. 

b — Frying. 
2 — Shortening. 
3 — Flavoring. 
4 — Greasing tins. 
5 — Soapmaking. 



Frying 

General Rules 



Frying is cooking by means of immersion in deep fat raised to the 
temperature of 350 to 450 degrees, or temperature reached when fat is quiet 
and there is a faint blue smoke. 

Fats used for frying are olive oil, cottonseed oil, cottolene, mazola, crisco. 
beef drippings, lard, or a mixture of several fats. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 



Place the articles to be cooked in a hath of fat deep enough to float them 

Test for fat when frying: 

Drop in an inch cuhe of hread, if it browns in 40 seconds the fat is ready 
for cooked articles. If the hread browns' in 60 seconds the fat is readv for 
uncooked articles. 

All articles fried must he drained on brown paper. When one set is 
taken from the fat it must he reheated and tested before adding a second set. 

After using the fat strain through cheese cloth and set aside for future 
use. 

Precautions 

1. Ketjle should not he more than two-thirds full as there is danger 
of fat cooking over when the food is added. 

2. Do not put too much into fat at one time as the temperature will 
be lowered. 

:•!. Do not move the kettle while the fire is under it. 

4. Lower food carefully into fat to prevent spattering. 

To Try Out Fat 

Take heel tat. beef suet, or pork fat. Remove the tough outside ^kin 
and all the lean parts; cut it into small pieces, put into a sauce pan and 
cover with cold water. Set it on the stove uncovered so that the steam may 
carry away any impurities. When the water has nearly all evaporated set 
the kettle back to keep the mixture from burning, and let the fat slowly fry 
out. When the melted fat is still and the scraps of skin are shriveled at the 
bottom of the kettle, strain the fat through a cloth and set it away to cool 
When it is white and hard it can he used to grease baking tins, to make 
pastry and to fry different foods, such as doughnuts' and fish hills The 
clarified beef fat is called drippings, and the clarified pork fat, lard. 

To Clarify Fat 

Melt fat, add raw potato cut in quarter-inch pieces, and allow fat to 
heat gradually; when fat ceases to bubble, and potatoes are well browned 
strain through double cheesecloth, placed over wire strainer, into a pan' 
The potato absorbs any odors or gases, and collects to itself some of the 
sediment, the remainder settling to bottom of kettle. 

When small amount of fat is to be clarified, add boiling water to the 
cold fat, stir vigorously, and set aside to cool. The fat will form a cake 
on top, which may be easily removed. A sediment will be found on the 
bottom of the cake, which may he scraped off with a knife. 

Fried Potatoes 

Cut potatoes into the desired shape. For Saratoga Chips cut them into 
thin slices; tor French Fried cut them into sections lengthwise. Soak them 
in salted icewater one-half to three-quarters of an hour. Dry thoroughly on 
a towel and drop into hot fat. When brown remove from the fat with a 
skimmer and drain on soft paper. Sprinkle with salt. 

Potato Croquettes 

2 c. hot riced potatoes y A t. celery salt 

2 tb. butter Yolk 1 egg 

'* *■ sa ' t 1 t. finely chopped parsley 

l A t. pepper Few drops onion juice 

Mix ingredients in order given, and beat thoroughlv. Shape, roll in fine 
bread or cracker crumbs, in beaten egg, then in crumbs. Fry in smoking 
hot deep fat until golden brown. Drain on paper. The most common way 



24 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



to shape croquettes: roll one rounding tb. of the mixture, lightly, in palms 
of hands to form a smooth ball. Then roll on a board, still using palm of 
hand, flatten at ends', thus giving a cylindrical shape. If mixture is rolled 
out very long croquettes are liable to break during frying. 

Doughnuts 

1 c. sugar 1 t. baking powder 

2y 2 tb. shortening 1 t. baking soda 

1 egg Z A t. cinnamon and nutmeg 

1 c. sour milk 1J/2 t. salt 

Flour to roll 

Cream the butter and add one-half the sugar gradually and cream again. 
Beat egg until light and add remaining sugar. Combine the two mixtures. 
Sift three and one-half cups of flour with baking powder, soda and spices and 
add gradually to the creamed mixture, adding more flour if necessary to 
form a stiff dough. Toss on a floured board and knead slightly. Roll out 
to one-fourth inch thickness and shape with a doughnut cutter. Fry in deep 
fat and drain on brown paper. Doughnuts should come quickly to the top 
of fat, brown on one side, then be turned to brown on the other side. Avoid 
turning more than once. 

Butter 

Experiments to Illustrate Butter-Making 

Put Yz pint of thick cream into a small bowl and beat it with a Dover 
egg beater until it separates into specks of butter and buttermilk. Gathei 
the butter into a lump, and after pressing out as much of the buttermilk as 
you can, wash the butter under a stream of cold water. Work with a wooden 
spoon to remove the water, and add a little salt. 

Butter 

Good butter is firm, not crumbly, yields little water when pressed, and 
foams when heated. 

Chapter VI. 
Body-Building Foods — Protein 

MILK 

"Milk is the indispensable food for children and whole milk in some form 
must be furnished them if the nutrition of the average child is to be main- 
tained and, if normal growth in height and weight is to be assured every 
child, it should have from 18 months to 12 years one and one-half pints of 
milk in its daily diet." 

Composition of Milk 

Water, mineral matter, fat, sugar, protein (albumen and casein). 

How Milk Should Look 

- 1. Milk should have a yellowish white color and a sweet, pure taste. 

2. Milk should have no sediment. 

3. Milk should not look blue around the edges. 

4. When poured from a tumbler milk should cling to the glass a little. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 25 

Care of Milk 

1. Milk should be kept in a cool place. 

2. Milk should be kept covered to keep dust and germs from falling 
into it. 

3. Milk should not be kept near foods that have a strong odor, as it 
will easily absorb. 

4. Milk should always be heated over hot water so that it will not boil 
as boiled milk is indigestible. 

Rennet Custard 

1 qt. milk 1 t. vanilla 

J4 c. sugar 1 junket tablet 

Heat the milk in a double boiler until it is lukewarm. Add sugar and 
stir until it is dissolved. Stir in the vanilla and rennet and pour into a glass 
dish. Let it stand in a warm room until it begins to thicken, then set in a 
cool place and leave it until it is firm. Sprinkle with % t. cinnamon or nut- 
meg and serve with cream (or milk) and sugar. 

Cream or Milk Toast 

1 c. milk, scalded 1 tb. butter 

% t. salt H tb. flour 

Rub butter and flour together, add hot milk and seasoning. Stir until 
smooth. Make toast in the oven, or broiler, or on toaster. Pour white sauce 
between slices and over all. Serve very hot. 

Cream Soups 

Cream Potato Soup 

3 potatoes (small) J4 t. celery salt 

1 pt. milk 1 stalk celery, chopped 

1 t. chopped onion 1 t. chopped parsley 

y 2 t. salt 1 tb. flour 

Y% t. pepper 2 tb. butter 

Wash and pare potatoes, cut in small pieces, cook in boiling salted water 
until tender. Drain and mash. While potatoes are cooking scald milk with 
onion and celery in double boiler. Rub butter and flour together, add a small 
amount of hot milk to make a paste, add remaining milk and return to boiler 
to cook. Add hot mashed potatoes, stir until smooth and strain. Add parsley 
and serve. If too thick, add hot milk. 

Cream Pea Soup 

1 can peas 1 slice onion 

2 t. sugar 2 tb. butter 
2 c. cold water 2 tb. flour 

2 c. milk 1 t. salt 

l A t. pepper 
Drain peas from liquor, add sugar and cold water, and simmer 20 minutes. 
Meanwhile scald milk with onion in double boiler; rub butter and flour to- 
gether, remove onion from milk, and add a small amount of hot milk to 
butter and flour to make a paste. Add remaining milk, return to double 
boiler, and add strained peas to mixture. Reheat, add seasonings, and serve 
hot. 



26 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Mock Bisque or Cream Tomato Soup 

1 can tomatoes Vs t. pepper 

1 qt. milk l A t. soda 

1 t. salt 2]/ 2 tb. butter 

4 tb. flour 
Stew the tomatoes till soft, strain and add soda. Heat the milk in a- 
double boiler. Rub the butter and corn starch together, adding slowly enough 
hot milk to make it pour easily. Stir slowly into the scalding milk and cook 
fifteen minutes. Add seasoning and strained tomatoes. Serve at once. The 
soda prevents the acid in the tomatoes from curdling the milk. 

Croutons 

Cut stale, slightly buttered bread into one-half inch slices. Remove the 
crusts and cut the bread into half-inch cubes. Brown in a hot oven, or fry 
in deep fat. Serve with soup. 

Legumes 

Baked Bean Soup (Legumes) 

3 c. cold baked beans 2 tb. butter 

3 pts. water 2 tb. flour 

2 slices onion 1 tb. chili sauce 
2 stalks celery Salt 

iy 2 c. stewed and strained Pepper 

tomatoes 
Place beans, water, onion and celery in a sauce pan and bring to boiling 
point. Simmer 30 minutes. Rub through a sieve, add tomatoes and chili 
sauce. Rub butter and flour together, add some of the hot liquid to make a 
paste and pour thickening into soup. Stir until smooth. Season and serve 
with very crisp crackers. 

Split Pea Soup (Legumes) 

1 c. dried split peas 3 tb. butter 

2y 2 qts. cold water 2 tb. flour 

1 pt. milk l l A t. salt 

y 2 onion Vs t. pepper 

2 inch cube fat salt pork 
Pick over peas, soak over night. Drain, add cold water, onion and pork 
and simmer 34 hr. Rub through a sieve. Rub butter and flour together, add 
a small amount of the hot liquid, to make a paste, pour into pea mixture. 
Season, add milk and cook until smooth. If water from boiled ham is used 
omit salt from recipe. Serve hot. 

Baked Lima Beans 

1 pt. lima beans 1 green pepper 

Y A lb. bacon 1 pimento 

1 onion (small) 1 t. salt 

Wash and soak beans over night. Drain, cover with fresh cold water, 
bring to a boil and let simmer for one-half hour. Cut the bacon in small 
pieces, try out in frying pan, remove bacon, add onions and peppers and 
cook until onion is yellow. Pour beans into baking dish, add bacon, onions 
and peppers, and salt. Bake two hours in moderate oven adding more water 
as necessary. 

Cheese 

Cheese, is made from the curd of milk obtained by heating milk and 
making it thick by the use of rennet or an acid. Cheese is made from skim 
milk, whole milk, or milk to which more cream has been added. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 27 

General Rules 

Cheese should be kept covered with cloth in a cold place. 
When cheese becomes dry and hard grate and keep covered tightly until 
ready to use. 

To Grate Cheese 

Select stale, dry cheese for grating. If cheese is fresh, chop fine : n a 
chopping bowl. If cheese mats sprinkle with fine cracker crumbs. 

Cottage Cheese 

1 qt. thick, sour milk 2 t. butter 

V A t. salt 

Cream enough to make cheese as moist as desired. 

Heat the milk very slightly in a stew pan or double boiler. As soon as 
the curd separates from the whey, strain the milk through a cloth. Squeeze 
the curd in the cloth rather dry. 

Put in a bowl and with a spoon mix it to a smooth paste with the butter, 
salt and cream. Serve lightly heaped up. 1 qt. sour milk shrinks to J^ c. 
cheese. 

If the milk is heated too hot the curd becomes tough. 

Cheese Wafers 

Sprinkle wafers with grated cheese mixed with a few grains of cayenne. 
Place in a shallow pan and bake in a moderate oven until the cheese melts. 

Welsh Rarebit 

1 tb. butter Vx t. salt 

1 t. cornstarch Va t. mustard 

y 2 c. milk Few grains cayenne 

Yi lb. mild, soft cheese. Toast or wafers 

cut in small pieces 
Melt butter in double boiler, add dry ingredients, stir until well mixed, 
then add milk slowly and cook ten minutes. Add cheese, and stir until cheese 
is melted. Serve on slices of toast or wafers. 

Cheese Fondue 

1 c. scalded milk Vi t. salt 

\ c. soft, stale bread crumbs Dash of cayenne 

1 tb. butter 1 c. grated cheese 

Yolks .'5 eggs, whites 3 eggs 
Mix milk, bread crumbs, butter, salt, cayenne and cheese together, tnen 
add yolks' of egg beaten until lemon-colored. Cut and fold in the whites 
beaten until stiff. Pour into a buttered baking-dish and bake twenty minutes 
in a moderate oven. Serve at once. 

Cheese Pudding 

1 c. cheese grated or cut into %. c. dried bread crumbs 

pieces 1 egg 

1 c. milk Vi t. salt 

Cayenne 
Beat egg slightly, and add other ingredients. Turn into buttered baking 
dish or custard cups. Place in pan of hot water and bake in moderate oven 
until firm. Serve hot. 



28 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Eggs 

Composition of Eggs 
Protein 



Albumen 

I Fat I Sulphur 

White \ Water Yolk i \ 

I | Mineral matter [ Iron 

I Mineral matter 

I Coloring 

Test for Freshness of Eggs 

1. A fresh egg will sink to the bottom of a pan of water. 

2. When held to the light the fresh egg will look clear. 

How to Preserve Eggs 

1. Eggs may be kept for a long time by packing them, small end down, 
in bran, salt, sawdust, etc. These substances will exclude the air. 

2. Liquid-glass as a preservative. — Put eggs in crocks and cover with 
one part liquid glass to seven parts water. Cover and keep in a cool place. 

How to Break an Egg 

Hold egg in left hand and strike it sharply with a knife or strike the 
egg on the edge of a bowl. Put thumbs together at crack and gently pull 
shell apart. 

How to Separate an Egg 

Crack the egg, break the shell apart, and gently slip the yolk from one 
piece of shell to the other several times until the white has' run over the 
edge of the shell into the dish. 

If using several eggs, break each one separately into a cup or saucer. 

Beating Eggs 

1. Slightly beaten — When a full spoonful can be taken up. 

2. Well-beaten yolks— Light, thick and lemon-colored. 

3. White beaten dry — Mass does not slip from dish turned upside 
down. 

Soft Cooked Eggs 

Place eggs in a saucepan containing boiling water. Cover and let stand 
without boiling from six to eight minutes. 

Scrambled Eggs 

5 eggs l A *. salt 

y 2 c. milk l A t. pepper 

2 tb. butter 
Beat eggs slightly, and add salt, pepper and milk. Heat a frying pan, 
put in butter and when melted, pour in mixture. Stir and scrape continually 
from bottom of pan until of creamy consistency. Serve on toast or hot 
minced ham or veal. Garnish with parsley. Eggs may be scrambled in a 
double boiler. 

Poached Eggs 

Fill pan two-thirds full of salted water, allowing x / 2 tb. salt to % qt. 
water. Break eggs carefully into a saucer, one at a time. When water boils, 
slip eggs in carefully. Turn down fire and allow eggs to remain in water 
without boiling until white is firm and a film has formed on yolk; remove 
with a skimmer and place on toast. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 29 

Hard Cooked Eggs 

Eggs may be cooked hard in a double boiler in from fifteen to eighteen 
minutes. 

Stuffed Eggs 

Cut hard-boiled eggs into halves lengthwise. Remove yolks carefully 
and mash them, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, onion juice, mustard 
and melted butter or vinegar to moisten. Place back in the whites. 

Egg Vermicelli 

3 hard cooked eggs 4 slices toast 
1 c. white sauce Parsley 

Separate yolks and whites of eggs. Chop whites and stir into white 
sauce. Cut three slices of toast in halves crosswise and place on a platter. 
Pour over them the sauce. Rub yolks through a strainer over surface. Gar- 
nish with parsley and remaining slices of toast, cut into points. 

Scalloped Eggs 

6 hard cooked eggs. 2 c. medium white sauce 

2 c. buttered crumbs 

Cut the eggs in slices. Place y$ of the crumbs in a buttered baking 

dish, put in y> of the eggs, cover with J/j of the crumbs, put in the other 

half of the eggs, then pour the white sauce over. Cover with the remaining 

crumbs. 

Egg Toast 

1 or 2 eggs 2 c. milk 

Va t. salt fi slices of stale bread 

Beat the eggs slightly, add milk and salt. Dip the bread in the mixture, 

a slice at a time. Cook on a hot greased griddle, browning on both sides. 

Serve with butter or syrup, or with sauce for a dessert. 

Plain Omelet 

4 eggs 1 tb. butter 
4. tb. milk y 2 t. salt 

V% t. pepper 
Beat eggs, add milk and seasonings. Place the butter in an omelet pan 
and when it melts, pour in the egg mixture. As it cooks lift it occasionally 
with a broad knife; set in the oven for two or three minutes that it nay 
brown. Fold and turn on a hot platter. 

Puffy Omelet 

4 eggs 4 tb. milk or cold water 

V* t. salt 1 tb. butter 

Few grains pepper 
Separate yolks from whites of eggs', beat yolks until thick, add salt, 
pepper and liquid. Then beat whites until stiff and dry. Cut and fold them 
into first mixture; heat omelet pan, put in butter and tip pan until sides and 
surfaces are evenly greased. Pour in mixture, spread lightly, and cook over 
a low flame until mixture is slightly browned underneath. Place pan on 
top grate of oven to finish cooking. The omelet is cooked if it is' firm to 
the touch when pressed by the finger. Make an incision at opposite sides and 
fold over like a half circle. Slip onto a hot platter and serve at once. 



30 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Body-Building Foods — Protein 

Meat 

Meat is the flesh of animals used as food. 

Kinds of Meat 

Beef is' the meat of the steer, ox or cow. 

Veal is the meat of a six or eight-weeks'-old calf. 

Mutton is the meat of the sheep. 

Lamb is the meat of lambs. 

Pork js the meat of the pig or hog. 

Poultry includes chickens, duck, geese, turkey, etc. 

Game is the wild fowl and wild animals., as venison, quail, pigeons, etc. 

How to Judge Good Meat 

Beef: Good beef should be firm, of fine grained texture, bright red in 
color and well coated with fat. The fat should be firm and of a yellowish 
color. The suet should be dry and crumble easily. 

Mutton or Lamb: Good mutton should be fine grained and of a bright 
pink color; the fat hard, white and flaky. The outside skin should come off 
easily. 

Veal: Good veal should have pinkish colored flesh and white fat. When 
flesh lacks color it has been taken from a creature which was too young 
for food. 

Pork: Good pork should have a bright pinkish colored flesh and white 
fat. Never use pork that has any dark spots on it. 

Care of Meat 

Meat should be kept in a cool place. 
Meat should be cleaned with a damp cloth. 

Meat should be removed from the paper as soon as it comes from the 
market. 

We cook meat for three reasons: 

1. To draw out the juices as in soups, broths and beef tea. 

2. To keep in the juice as in broiling, roasting, boiling and frying. 

3. To keep in part of the juices and to draw out part of the juices, as in 
stewing and braising. t 

Cuts of Beef and Their Uses 

1 Neck Soups and stews. 

2. Chucks Braising, pot roasting, stewiag. 

3. Ribs Roasting, boiling. 

4. Shoulder Stewing, boiling. 

5. Fore shank Soups. 

6. Brisket Corning, boiling. 

7. Cross ribs Pot roast or inferior steak. 

8. Plate Corning, boiling. 

9. Navel Corning, boiling. 

10. Loin Roasting, broiling. 

11. Flank Stewing, braising. 

12. Rump . . .Roasting, stewing, pot roast. 

13. Round .Braising, broiling, roasting, beef tea, beef ju'ee. 

14. Second cut of round Stewing, soups. 

15. Hind shank Soups. 

16. Tail Soups. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 31 



Beef or Mutton Stew 

Stewing. — Cooking in a small quantity of water, below the boiling point, 
for a long time. 

2 to 3 lbs. beef or mutton y 2 small onion, cut in slices 

Yt. c. carrots (cut in cubes) 4 c. potatoes, cut in cubes- 

Yi c. turnips (cut in cubes) 2 tb. flour ' 

1 t. salt 4 c. water or enough to cowr 

J4 t. pepper 
Wipe the meat and cut into one and one-half inch pieces; put part of 
the meat into the cold water and bring to boiling point. Roll the rest of the 
meat in flour slightly seasoned with salt and pepper. Melt fat in a frying 
pan and brown the sliced onion and meat. Add to the stew with carrots and 
turnips. Cook for two or three hours at simmering point. Parboil the pota- 
toes for about five minutes before adding to stew. Thicken the gravy with 
flour mixed in cold water. Pour on a large platter and surround with dump- 
lings. 

Boiled Dumplings 

2 c. flour 4 t. baking powder 
Y2 t. salt 1 scant c. milk 

Sift dry ingredients, stir in the milk gradually, with a knife, to make a 
soft dough. Drop quickly by the spoonful into the boiling stew, letting them 
rest on the meat and potatoes. Cover closely to keep in the steam, and 
boil just ten minutes without lifting the cover. Serve at once. 

Broiling 

1. Broiling over Coal Fire. — Have a clear, red fire. Wipe off meat 
with a wet cloth and remove superfluous fat. Grease a broiler and put meat 
on. Hold close to the coals, turning every ten seconds for one minute in 
order to sear both sides, and thus imprison the juice; then cook more slowly 
till done. Put on a hot platter and spread with butter, season with salt and 
pepper. Garnish with parsley and lemon slices. 

2. Broiling Under Gas Flame. — Have broiling oven very hot, prepare 
meat and place in greased double broiler or on rack in pan. Sear one side 
of the meat and then the other. Cook more slowly, by turning down gas. 
Season and serve. 

3. Pan Broiling. — Have frying-pan hissing hot. Prepare meat and put 
in pan. Sear both sides, then allow to cook more slowly until done. Season 
and serve. Drain off the fat as it cooks out of the meat and use for brown 
gravy. 

Time Table for Broiling 

Steak, 1 -inch thick 5 to 8 minutes 

Steak, 1 j4-inch thick 7 to 12 minutes 

Pan Broiled Chops 

Heat a frying-pan very hot. Wipe the chops, remove fat. Put into 
frying-pan and sear both sides. Turn often during cooking. Cook from six 
to eight minutes. 

Breaded Chops 

Sauteing. — Cooking in a small amount of fat. 
6 or 8 chops Dry bread or cracker crumbs 

1 egg 2 tb. cold water 

2 tb. fat 
Wipe chops and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Beat egg slightly and 
add cold water. Dip chops in crumbs, then in egg and then in crumbs again. 



32 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Put fat in frying pan, heat, and place chops in pan. Brown on one side, 
turn carefully and brown the other side. Turn down gas, cover and cook 



slowly until done. 



Hamburg Steak 



1 lb. round steak 1 egg 

1 tb. onion juice or grated lH t. salt 

onion Dash of pepper 

Chop steak very fine and mix thoroughly with the other ingredients; the 
egg may be used or not, it helps hold the meat together during cooking. With 
hands or knife and spoon wet in cold water, shape the mixture into small, 
flat cakes', having the edges of the same thickness as the center. Meat is more 
easily handled if each cake is dropped in flour. Broil or saute first one side 
and then the other in hot drippings of fat salt pork. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Roast Beef 

Roasting. — Meats cooked in an oven, though really baked, are said to be 
roasted. 

Time for Roasting. — Ten or twelve minutes to the pound. The smaller 
the roast the shorter the time per pound and the hotter the oven should be. 

Wipe meat, place on a rack in a dripping pan. Dredge meat and pan 
with flour, put salt and pepper in pan. Place in a hot oven that surface may 
be quickly seared and the juice imprisoned. When the flour in the pan is 
browned, lessen the heat, and baste with fat in the bottom of the pan, to 
which a little hot water has been added. If meat is lean, put trimming of 
fat in pan. Baste the meat about every ten minutes. 

Veal or Beef Loaf 

Two pounds of raw beef, mutton or veal or two kinds together chopped 
fine with % lb. of fat salt pork. Season with 2 t. salt and J4 t. pepper. Mix 
with 1 c. cracker crumbs or dry bread crumbs, two beaten eggs and milk 
enough to moisten. Onion may be used for seasoning. Shape into a loaf 
and bake in oven for about one hour, basting often. 

USES OF LEFT OVER MEATS 

Minced Meat on Toast 

Chop cooked meat fine. Put 1 c. meat in a pan with -}4 c. cold water 
or stock, and let it simmer. Thicken with l / 2 tb. butter and 1 tb. flour rubbed 
together. Season with salt and pepper and Y- t. minced onion. Serve on 
toast. Garnish with parsley. 

Cottage Pie 

Chop cold meat fine. To every cupful add u c. gravy or stock, season 
highly with salt and pepper and % t. summer savory. Put into a baking- 
dish and cover with a crust of mashed potatoes. Bake twenty minutes or 
until brown. Serve in the dish in which it was baked. 

Hash 

Mix equal quantities of chopped cooked meat and chopped boiled pota- 
toes, or mashed potatoes. Season highly with salt and pepper, adding onion 
if desired. For each pint of hash allow 1 tb. butter or drippings and a scant 
cup of water or stock; put into frying-pan and add hash, spread on bottom 
and let cook unstirred until well browned on the bottom; fold like an omelet. 
Serve on a hot platter. Garnish with parsley. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 33 



Creamed Dried Beef 

1 lb. dried beef 2 tb. flour 
Be. milk '_. t. salt 

2 tb. butter Speck of pepper 

Remove skin and separate beef into pieces, cover with hot water let 
stand ."< minutes and drain. Make a white sauce of the milk, butter, flour 
and seasonings. Add the beet and reheat. Serve on toast. 

Fish 

The animal food next in importance to that of meat is fish. 
Fish -liould be eaten fresh and in season. 

Classification of Fish 

I. Those with and fresh water). 

l. White-fleshed fish have their oil secreted in the liver. 
Examples — Whiteiish, cod, perch, pickerel, sunfish, haddock, el 

Red-fleshed fish have their oil throughout the body. 
Examples — Salmon, herring, lake trout. 

II. Those with shells (salt and fresh water). 
Examples — Oysters, clams, shrimps. 

III. Those with a hard covering (crustaceous*, with joints). 
Examples Lobsters (salt water). 

How to Judge a Fresh Fish 

The flesh should be firm, the eye- and gills should be bright and scales 
should be shiny. 

Creamed Codfish 

' j II). codfish white sauce 

Tick codtish fine, cover with cold water and bring slowly to boiling point: 

drain and add to thin white sauce. A slightly beaten egg may be added just 

before taking from the tire. Pour over buttered toast or serve on a platter 

garnished with hard-cooked eggs. If time permits, codfish may be soaked in 

cold water for several hours. 

Codfish Balls 

1 2 lb. salt codfish 1 egg 

2 hp. c. potatoes in inch J / 2 tb. butter 

thick pieces. Pepper 

Boil and mash the potatoes. Freshen codfish by soaking in cold water. 
Mix fish, potatoes, butter and eggs together and beat the mixture well. Shape 
into balls or cylinders and fry in deep fat or shape into flat cakes and saute. 

Salmon Loaf 

1 lb. can salmon 1 t. lemon juice 

1 c. fine bread crumbs Vi t. onion juice 

2 eggs 1 tb. fine chopped parsley 
Y 2 c. milk A dash of paprika 

y 2 t. salt 
Remove skin, bones and liquid from fish and pick fine. Mix together 
thoroughly with other ingredients, and then turn into a buttered mould. Cook 



34 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

in a steamer, or in the oven in a dish of hot water about one-half hour, or 
unil the center is firm. Serve hot with sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

Sauce. — Melt 2 tb. butter, add 2 tb. flour, salt, a few grains of mace, and 
paprika, then add 1 c. hot milk and the strained salmon liquor. Cook until 
smooth in double boiler. 

Scalloped Salmon 

1 can salmon 1 c. white sauce 

1 c. bread or cracker crumbs 
Take out all bones and skin and juice from the fish; butter a baking 
dish, put in a layer of fish, then a layer of buttered and seasoned crumbs, 
then a layer of fish, then crumbs. Pour the white sauce over, cover the top 
with buttered crumbs and brown in the oven. 

Oyster Stew 

1 qt. oysters 3 tb. butter 

1 qt. milk 2 t. salt 

y 8 t. pepper 
Strain oyster liquor from oysters. Clean oysters by placing them in a 
colander and pouring over them Ya. c. cold water. Carefully pick over oysters 
and put them in a sauce pan with the strained oyster liquor and heat to 
boiling point. While oysters are heating, scald the milk in a double-boiler. 
Pour the oysters into the scalded milk, add butter and seasonings. Serve 
with crackers. 

Scalloped Oysters 

1 qt. oysters 1 t. salt 

y 2 c. melted butter K t. pepper 

2 c. stale bread crumbs or 5 or 6 tb. oyster liquor or 
cracker crumbs oyster liquor and milk 

Mix the crumbs with the salt, pepper and butter; spread one-third of 
them on the bottom of a buttered baking-dish, put in half the oysters drained 
and rinsed, another layer of crumbs, and the rest of the oysters; covering 
the top with crumbs, pour over the liquid. Bake twenty or thirty minutes in 
an oven hot enough to brown them. 

Baked Fish 

Wash and wipe the fish; head and tail may or may not be removed; if 
head is not removed the eyes should be taken out. Fill the cavity with 
dressing, allowing room for the dressing to swell slightly. Sew up the 
fish, using strong thread, skewer and tie in the shape of the letter S. Butter 
and dredge with flour and place on a rack or fish sheet in a baking-pan. If 
the fish is very dry, cut gashes in it crosswise and insert strips of salt pork. 
When the fish is brown and the flesh may be pierced without the iuice run- 
ning out, remove the string and skewers, garnish with lemon and parsley 
and serve. 

Dressing for Baked Fish 

1 c. stale bread crumbs 2 tb. chopped pickle 

Ya c. melted butter Ya t. salt 

Few drops onion juice Ys. t. pepper 

1 tb. chopped parsley 
Mix all together and add enough cold water to bind the crumbs together, 
using a fork for mixing. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 35 

Chapter VII. 
Body Building and Body Regulating Foods — Mineral Matter 

1. Fruits 

Apple Sauce I 

Wash, wipe, quarter, pare and core eight sour apples. Cook apples in 
enough water to keep from scorching. When fruit is tender stir or beat un- 
til smooth, add sugar and as soon as dissolved remove from fire. Use ]/s to 
% c. sugar for each cup of cooked fruit. 

Apple Sauce II 

Wash, wipe, quarter, pare and core eight sour apples. Make a syrup 
by boiling ]/ 2 c. sugar and 1 c. water for 7 minutes. Add enough apples to 
cover bottom of sauce pan; watch carefully during cooking and remove as 
soon as soft. Continue until all are cooked. Strain remaining syrup over all. 

Baked Apples 

Wipe and core eight sour apples'. Place on granite baking dish. Fill 
cavities with y 2 c. sugar mixed with 34 t. nutmeg or cinnamon and y 2 t. butter. 
Cover bottom of dish with boiling water and bake in a hot oven until soft, 
basting with syrup in pan. Serve hot or cold with the syrup or cream. 

Scalloped Apples 

34 c. sugar 'i c. sliced or chopped apples 

34 t. cinnamon 34 c. butter 

34 lemon rind grated 1 c. soft bread crumbs 

Mix sugar, cinnamon and lemon rind. Melt butter and stir it «'nto 
crumbs. Butter a baking dish, put in 34 of crumbs, y 2 of apple, and sprinkle 
with y 2 sugar. Then put in another layer of crumbs, apple and sugar and 
remaining half of crumbs on top. If apples are not very tart add lemon juice 
to each layer. Add l / 2 c. cold water. Bake slowly, covered at first. When 
apples are soft remove cover and brown crumbs. Serve with cream. Ripe 
berries may be used in place of apples sometimes. 

Rhubarb Sauce 

Peel and cut rhubarb into inch pieces. If young and tender do not peel. 
Add y 2 c. sugar: for every pint of fruit and a very little water. Cook in a 
double boiler till soft. Do not stir it. The pieces of rhubarb should be un- 
broken. 

Rhubarb may be cooked in a covered baking dish in the oven. 

Vegetables 

Green Vegetables as they are rich in mineral matter are a very necessary 
part of the diet. In cooking those rich in mineral, such as spinach, peas, 
oyster plant, a small amount of water should be used, so that the minerals" 
may not be lost by dissolving in the water. 

To Mince Onions 

Remove covering from onion about one-half way down. Score across 
top about 3 / s jnch apart, score again in opposite direction, then slice across' 
the onion. 



36 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Boiled Onions 

Put onions in cold water; remove skins while under water. Drain, boil 
five minutes in boiling salted water, drain, add fresh boiling water. Cook 
one hour or until soft. Drain, add small quantity of milk, butter, pepper, 
salt to season. 

Creamed Onions 

Prepare and cook as boiled onions, changing the water twice during boil- 
ing; drain, and cover with thin white sauce. 

Boiled Cabbage 

Take off outside leaves, cut cabbage into quarters and remove tough 
stalk. Soak in cold water and cook in an uncovered vessel in salted water. 
Cook from thirty minutes to one hour, drain, and season with butter, pepper 
and salt. 

Scalloped Cabbage 

Chop a medium-sized boiled cabbage in small pieces. Put it into a bak- 
ing dish, mix with one cup white sauce. Over top sprinkle lightly one-half 
cup buttered crumbs. Put in oven to reheat and brown crumbs. 

Cauliflower with Cream Sauce 

Soak cauliflower, blossom end down, in cold water. Break apart and 
cut off the leaves and hard stalk. Put into a large quantity of boiling salted 
water and cook twenty minutes or till tender. Drain, and cover with white 
sauce, using 1 pt. sauce. 

Cold cooked cauliflower may be scalloped, adding a little cheese to the 
sauce. 

String Beans 

String and cut beans into one-inch pieces crosswise. Wash. Cook in 
boiling salted water until tender — from twenty-five minutes to one hour. 
Drain, season with salt and pepper and butter or mix with 1 c. white sauce. 

Asparagus 

Wash the asparagus, remove scales and break into inch pieces as far 
down on the stalk as it will break easily. If it does not snap off quickly, the 
stalk is too tough to be used. Cook in boiling salted water for fifteen 
minutes or until tender. The tips of the asparagus should not be added until 
after the stalks have cooked ten minutes. Drain, spread with butter, season 
with salt and pepper or mix lightly with a white sauce and serve on toast. 
1 c. sauce is generally allowed to one bunch of asparagus. 

Asparagus in Shells 

Remove centers from small rolls and fry shells in deep fat. Drain, and 
fill with asparagus in white sauce. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Wipe tomatoes, put in a bowl and pour boiling water over them to loosen 
skins. Peel, remove green, hard stems and slice them into granite saucepan. 
Cook from fifteen to twenty minutes, removing yellow scum that appears on 
surface. Add to four medium-sized tomatoes, 1 tb, butter, 1 t. salt, l /» t. 
pepper and if the tomatoes are very acid 1 tb. sugar, if liked. Yx c. of fine 
bread crumbs' may be added just before taking from stove. Tomatoes should 
never be cooked in a tin or iron utensil, as by so doing they acquire a metallic 
flavor. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 37 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

1 can tomatoes % c. sugar 

1 t. salt % t. pepper 

\Vz c. buttered crumbs 

Butter a granite or porcelain-lined baking dish. Sprinkle with y 2 c. of 
crumbs. Stir tomatoes, salt, sugar and pepper together and pour them into 
dish. Cover with remaining crumbs' and place in hot oven on top grate to 
heat mixture through and brown crumbs. 

Spinach 

Y* pk. spinach l / 2 t. pepper 

1 tb. salt 3 tb. butter 

2 hard cooked eggs may be used for a garnish 

Pick over carefully one-half peck of spinach. Remove wilted leaves and 
trim off roots. Wash thoroughly, lift spinach from one pan of water into 
another, that sand may be left in the water. Wash in several waters until 
water is clear. Put spinach in a large saucepan, and if it is fresh and tender 
do not add any water, but cook it in its own juice about twenty-five minutes, 
or until tender. If the spinach is old, cook it in two quarts of boiling salted 
water, uncovered, that it may retain its green color better. Drain off water, 
add butter, turn into a hot dish and serve at once. Spinach is pleasing if 
served with a few drops of vinegar. 

Salads 

A salad has three good qualities. It is healthful, economical, and attrac- 
tive. It is healthful because of the fresh green vegetables and fruits so valu- 
able for the mineral matter and water which they contain. It is economical 
because "left-overs" may be utilized in a most palatable and attractive 
manner. 

Salads served with a dinner should be very simple, and consist of vege- 
tables or fruit. Salads for the main dish of a meal should consist of various 
combinations of meats, fish or vegetables, mixed with Mayonnaise or Boiled 
Salad Dressing. Fruit salads are generally served for afternoon or evening 
affairs. 

MATERIALS USED FOR SALADS 

Green vegetables — Celery, chicory or endive, cress, cucumbers, lettuce, 
onions, peppers, radishes and tomatoes. 

Cooked vegetables — Beans, string and whole, beets, cauliflower, carrots, 
potatoes and spinach. 

Fruits uncooked — Any fresh fruit, with the exception of some of the 
berries. 

.Meat and poultry — The white meats like veal, chicken and turkey, are 
more attractive in salad, but any kind of cold meat may be used. 

Fish and shellfish — Lobsters, crabs, scallops and cold fish. 

Nuts — All kinds may be used in combination with fruits. 

Jellies — Tomato jelly, meat, chicken and fish, molded in jelly, may be 
served as a salad. 

Eggs' — Hard boiled as a garnish. 

Cheese — May be served with lettuce. 



38 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Rules for Salad Making 

1. Have ingredients very cold and use fresh, crisp vegetables. 

2. Wash thoroughly one leaf at a time and dry by pressing between 
dry clean cloth. 

3. Mix just before using. 

4. Lse a fork to mix salad ingredients. 

5. Combine ingredients that will produce an agreeable flavor and ap- 
pearance. 

6. Always serve a salad that will harmonize with the other courses of 
the meal. 

7. Meat. fish, potatoes, etc.. which will absorb dressing, should be 
marinated or mixed with a French dressing, chilled and drained before serv- 
ing. 

8. A meat, fish, or egg salad served with a cooked or mayonnaise dress- 
ing contains a great deal of nourishment and when served should be one 
of the chief foods of the meal. Serve a vegetable or fruit salad with a hearty 
meal. 

9. Do not leave a metal fork or spoon in salad ingredients any length 
of time, as a poisonous compound may be formed. 

Head lettuce may be served halved, quartered or sliced, with any de- 
sired dressing. If the lettuce is to be used for a garnish, the leaves may be 
cut from the stalk and used separately, or the leaves may be shredded. To 
shred lettuce, place five or six leaves of uniform size, one on top of the 
other, roll up and slice across the roll in thin slices or shreds. 

Salad Oils 

Salad oils are among our most valuable foods. Xot only do they yield 
the body a large amount of heat and energy, but they keep the whole system 
in a healthy and normal condition. Olive oil has been the standard of a pure, 
delicious oik but there are other oils such as cotton-seed oil, peanut oil, corn 
oil, etc.. and mixtures of these various oils, which one may choose according 
to keeping qualities and prices. All salad oils have practically the same food 
value. 

French Dressing 

y 2 t. salt 2 tb. vinegar or lemon juice 

*4 t. pepper 6 tb. oil 

Add seasoning to acid and add slowly to oil, beating all the time. When 
slightly thickened and cloudy in appearance, dress salad. If a large quan- 
tity is to be prepared, put all ingredients into a bottle or fruit jar, cork 
tightly and shake hard until ingredients are well blended. The colder the 
material, the more quickly the emulsion will be formed. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs or 2 whole eggs very light. Pour over them 4 
tb. boiling vinegar. Set the bowl over hot water and cook till thick and 
smooth, beating constantly. Add 4 tb. butter, and when cool, season and 
thin with cream. 

Seasoning for Salad Dressings 

3 t. salt 1 t. mustard 

]/i t. cayenne 

Mix. and use this to season salad dressings. 



DOMESTIC SCIENXE RECIPES 



Cream Salad Dressing 

Vz t. salt 1 tb. flour 

1 t. mustard Yolks of 2 eggs, or 1 egg 

V/ 2 tb. sugar V/ 2 tb. melted butter 

Few grains of cayenne $4 c. milk or cream 

% c. vinegar 
Mix dry ingredients. Add yolks of eggs, slightly beaten, butter and 
milk. Cook over boiling water until mixture thickens, then add vinegar 
slowly, stirring constantly. Strain and cool. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

y 2 t. mustard 1 tb. sugar 

y 2 t. salt 3 tb. vinegar 

% t. paprika l l / 2 c. salad oil 

1 egg 

Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Add the well-beaten egg and acid. 
Add the oil, a fourth of a cup at a time, beating constantly. Morr acid may 
be used if desired, by adding it at the last. 

Thousand Island Dressing 

Yi c. mayonnaise dressing 1 t. Worcestershire sauce 

2 tb. chile sauce 1 tb. catsup 

Mix ingredients together thoroughly. When ready to serve mix gently 
with y 2 c. cream, whipped stiff. Serve at once. 

To improve the flavor of this dressing, 2 tb. green pepper, 1 tb. chopped 
onions, 1 hard cooked egg, chopped, may be added. 

Fruit Salad Dressing 

% c. pineapple juice 1 egg 

% c. orange juice 1 tb. corn starch 

1 tb. lemon juice y 2 c. sugar 

3 tb. water . cream, whipped 

Heat the fruit juices in a double boiler. Add water. Beat eggs until 
light, gradually adding sugar and cornstarch. Add hot liquid to egg, return 
to double boiler. Stir constantly until mixture thickens and coats the spoon. 
When cold and ready to use fold in whipped cream. This makes one pint of 
dressing. 

Pineapple Salad 

Put a slice of canned pineapple on a bed of lettuce and put a tiny ball 
of cream cheese in the center of pineapple. Serve with French or mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Cabbage Salad 

2 c. shredded cabbage nion, cut fine 

2 c. chopped celery 
Mix ingredients thoroughly. Add mayonnaise or boiled dressing. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

Waldorf Salad 

2 c. apples, diced 1 c. celery, cut in cubes 

1 c. nut meats, broken in pieces 
Mix ingredients thoroughly and add boiled dressing. Serve on lettuce 
leaves or remove tops from red apples, scoop out the pulp and refill shells 
with salad. 



40 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Fruit Salad 

1 can pineapple, diced *4 c. nut meats or maraschii.o 

3 oranges, diced cherries 

3 bananas, sliced 
Fruit salad dressing to moisten. 

Potato Salad 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in cubes, sprinkle lightly with salt. If liked, 
add one-half the amount of celery, cut in cubes. Add 2 tb. minced oiiion 
to every pt. of potatoes. Moisten with salad dressing. Mix lightly and put 
on lettuce leaves, or put in a bowl and garnish with celery leaves. 

Russian Salad 

1 c. cold cooked carrots 1 c. cold cooked peas 

1 c. cold cooked potatoes 1 c. cold cooked string beans 

Arrange vegetables in a mold and serve with a cooked or French dress- 
ing. 

Salmon Salad 

1 large can salmon 1 c. diced celery or shredded 

cabbage seasonings 
Mix with mayonnaise or boiled dressing. Serve on a bed of lettuce 
leaves. Garnish with sliced lemon or sliced hard cooked eggs'. Tuna fish, 
lobster, crab meat, shrimps and left over fish may be used in place of salmon. 

Chicken or Veal Salad 

Cut cold boiled chicken or veal into Vt. inch pieces. To two cups meat 
add one and one-half cups celery cut small. Marinate with French dressing. 
Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise, cream or boiled salad dressing. 

Perfection Salad 

1 tb. granulated gelatine Vz U salt 

34 c. water 1 c. boiling water 

J4 c. vinegar 1 c. diced celery 

Juice l / 2 lemon % c. shredded cabbage 

J4 c. sugar Va c. pimentos 

Soften the gelatine in cold water. Mix vinegar, lemon juice, sugar salt 
and boiling water. Bring all to the boiling point and add the softened gela- 
tine. When the mixture begins to thicken, add the celery, cabbage and 
pimentos, and turn into a ring mould Chill, serve with mayonnaise dressing. 



Chapter VIII. 

FLOUR MIXTURES 
Flour 

Flour is made by milling the grains of different cereals, as wheat, rye, 
corn, rice and barley. Of these wheat is the most important as it grows in 
almost every climate and is the best suited for bread making. Wheat is 
called the "King of Cereals." 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 41 

Wheat Flour 

The grain of wheat consists of three parts: 

1. Germ — from which the young plant grows. 

2. Kernel — center of the grain, composed largely of starch and gluten. 

3. Bran coat — composed largely of woody fibre and mineral master. 
This is divided into five distinct layers. 

There are two kinds of wheat which yield different flour: 

1. Winter or "soft" — Sown in the autumn; endures cold and dampness 
of winter; is soft and starchy; yields a fine flour called "pastry flour," used 
for cakes and pies. 

2. Spring or "hard" — Sown in the spring; comes' up quickly in the 
sunny weather; is hard and contains gluten, a protein substance necessary 
for the production of a light elastic dough. Bread is made from the spring 
wheat flour. 

Classification of Wheat Flour 

1. Plain White Flour — Germ and bran coats discarded in milling. 

a. Bread Flour 

b. Pastry Flour. 

2. Graham Flour — Coarse and dark in color, the whole grain being used. 

3. Whole Wheat Flour — Germ and outside bran coat discarded. 

Corn 

With the exception of wheat, corn is grown more than any other grain- 
in the United States. It contains a great deal of starch, and more fat than 
any other cereal. It, therefore, spoils easily and should be bought in small 
quantities. 

Flour Mixtures 

A flour mixture must contain : 

1. Flour to thicken. 

2. Liquid to moisten. 

3. Leaven to lighten. • 

4. Salt. 

It may contain other things to improve flavor and increase food value. 

Flour Mixtures Are Classified As: 

I. Batters'. A batter is a mixture which can be beaten. 

(a) Pour batter — equal parts of flour and liquid. 

(b) Drop batter — twice as much flour as liquid. 

II. Doughs. A dough is a mixture stiff enough to handle on a board. 

(a) Soft dough — three times as much flour as liquid. 

(b) Stiff dough — three and one-half or more times as much flour as 
liquid. 

III. Sponge. A batter to which yeast is added. 

Leavens 

A leaven is a harmless gas used in flour mixtures to make them light, 
porous, more digestible and better to taste. 

That which produces the gas is called the leavening agent. 



DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Classification of Leavens 

I. Natural. 

1. Air — introduced into the mixtures. 

(a) By beating into the mixtures. 

(b) By sifting dry ingredients. 

(c) By folding in beaten egg whites. 

2. Steam — introduced into mixture. 

(a) By moisture and heat. 

II. Artificial. 

1. Carbon dioxide — introduced into mixture. 

(a) By any acid and soda. 

(b) By baking powder and moisture. 

(c) By yeast. 

Proportions of Acids and Alkalies to be Used in Flour Mixtures: 

2 t. baking powder for each cup % t. soda to 1 c. molasses for 

flour stiff doughs 

1 t. soda to 1 pt. thick sour milk *4 t. baking powder may be de- 

1 t. soda to 1 c. molasses for ducted for every egg after the 
batters first one. 

Experiments 

1. Soda+sour milk=gas (carbon dioxide). 

2. Soda-j-vinegar=gas. 

3: Soda+lemon juice=gas. 

4. Soda-j-molasses=gas. 

5. Soda+cream of tartar=gas. 

6. Baking powder-}- moisture=gas. 

Cream of tartar is' an acid substance made from crystals deposited on 
the sides and bottom of casks containing grape wine. 

Classes of Baking Powders 

1. Alum Powders. 

2. Phosphate Powders. 

3. Cream of Tartar Powders. 

Cream of tartar powders are the strongest, purest and best powders. 

Recipe for Baking Powder 

2 parts cream of tartar 1 part soda 

yi part cornstarch 
Sift the soda; add cornstarch and sift five minutes; add cream of tartar 
and sift five or six times. Keep in tin or glass' cans tightly covered. 

Oven Tests 

1. Very hot oven. A piece of white unglazed paper placed on the 
grate on which the baking is' to be done, turns a light brown in one and 
one-half minutes. 

2. Hot oven. Paper turns light brown in 2 minutes. 

3. Moderate oven. Paper turns light brown in 3 minutes. 

4. Cool oven. Paper turns light brown in 4 minutes'. 

Batters 

Pop Overs 

1 c. flour 1 c. milk 

Ya t. salt 1 egg 

Sift the salt with the flour; add milk slowly to form a smooth paste, 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 43 

then add the rest of milk and beaten egg. Beat well with Dover egg beater, 
from three to five minutes. Pour into hot greased gem pans and bake in 
hot oven thirty minutes until brown and well popped over. Makes 8 popovers. 
Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 
3 c. flour y% c. sugar 

V/i tb. baking powder 2 c. milk 

1 t. salt 1 egg 

2 tb. melted butter 
Mix and sift dry ingredients; beat egg, add milk to egg and pour slowly 
on to first mixture. Beat well and add butter. Drop by spoonfuls on a hot, 
greased griddle. When puffed, full of bubbles, and cooked on edges, turn 
and cook the other side. Turn griddle cakes just once while cooking. Serve 
with butter and maple syrup. 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 

1 c. corn meal 1 t. salt 

2 c. water 4 t. baking powder 
1 J A c. milk Y% c. sugar 

\Vi c. flour 2 eggs 

3 tb. fat 
Cook the corn meal in the water for five minutes. Cool. Add the milk, 
the sifted dry ingredients and well beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly. Drop at 
once on a hot griddle. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 
2 l / 2 c. flour. J4 c. sugar 

]/ 2 c. cold cooked rice V/i c. milk 

1 tb. baking powder 1 egg 

y 2 t. salt 2 tb. melted shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Work in rice with tips of fingers. Add 
egg well beaten, milk and butter. Cook same as other griddle cakes. 

Bread Griddle Cakes 
1 pt. stale (not dried) bread 2 e,ggs 

crumbs 1 c. flour 

1 pt. scalded milk Vz t. salt 

2 tb. butter 

2 t. baking powder 

Pour hot milk over crumbs and butter and soak till the crumbs' are soft. 

Separate the eggs and add the beaten yolks to crumb mixture. Mix and sift 

the dry ingredients and add to first mixture. Fold in the beaten whites. 

Bake slowly on a hot greased griddle. Add cold milk to thin if necessary. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 
2 c. flour 1 t. baking soda 

y 2 t. salt 2 c. sour milk 

2 t. baking powder 3 tb. fat 

Pour the sour milk into a mixing bowl. Sift the dry ingredients and 
add the sour milk. Melt the fat and add it to the flour mixture. Cook at 
once on a hot griddle. 

Note: — Since the amount of baking soda depends upon the amount of 
sour milk, the flour should be the ingredient which is changed in recipes 
containing sour milk. 

Waffles 
1 pt. flour 2 eggs 

\y 2 t. baking powder \y 2 c. milk 

]/ 2 t. salt 2 tb. butter, melted 

Mix in order given, adding beaten yolks with milk, then the butter, and 
fold in the beaten whites last. Serve with butter and syrup. 
Whole rule makes 6 large waffles. 



44 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Muffins 

One-Egg Muffins 
2 c. flour 2 tb. sugar 

1J/2 t. baking powder 1 c. milk 

y 2 t. salt 2 tb. melted shortening 

1 egg 
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk gradually, egg well beaten and 
melted fat last. Bake in a hot oven in greased pans twenty-five minutes. 
Makes 8 large muffins. 

Graham Muffins 
1 c. graham flour Ya t. salt 

1 c. white flour 1 c. milk 

14, c. sugar 1 egg 

4 t. baking powder 2 tb melted shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk gradually; egg well beaten and 
melted fat last. Bake in a hot oven in greased pans twenty-five minutes. Do 
not throw away the bran left in the sifter after sifting the dry ingredients, 
but add to batter. Whole rule makes 8 muffins. 

Corn Meal Muffins 
1 c. flour 1 egg 

1 c. corn meal J A c. sugar 

y 2 t. salt 1 c. milk, scant 

4 t. baking powder 1 tb. melted fat 

2 tb. boiling water 
Pour boiling water on corn meal to scald it. Mix and sift rest of dry 
ingredients and add to corn meal. Add milk to beaten eggs, add to dry 
ingredients. Add fat and beat well. Bake in hot greased gem pans twenty 
minutes to half an hour. Makes 8 muffins. 

Hot Water Gingerbread 

1 c. molasses 1 t. soda 

Yi c. boiling water \y 2 t. ginger 

2V A c. flour Vi t. salt 

4 tb. melted shortening 
Mix water and molasses. Mix and sift all dry ingredients, then add 
liquid gradually, add shortening and beat vigorously Pour into a buttered, 
shallow tin pan and bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 
1 c. molasses Sour milk 

1 c. sour milk 2 t. ginger 

2V3 c. flour 2 t. cinnamon 

V/3 t. soda J A c. melted shortening 

Mix sour milk and molasses. Mix and sift all dry ingredients'. Combine 
mixtures. Add shortening and beat vigorously. Bake in a shallow greased 
pan, twenty-five to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Corn Bread 

1 tb. sugar 

1 egg 

y 2 t. soda 

2 t. baking powder 
y 2 t. salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk to slightly beaten egg. Combine 
mixtures. Beat well. Add melted fat. Bake in a shallow pan, in a moderate 
oven thirty minutes. 

Note: — May be baked in muffin pans. 



1 


c. 


sour 


milk 


1 


c. 


flour 




1 


c. 


corn 


meal 


1 


tb 


. fat 





DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 45 

Cakes 

Cakes are divided into two classes. 

1. Butter or Pound Cakes — made with butter. 

2. Sponge Cakes — made without butter. 

Good cake depends upon the following things: 

1. Best ingredients. 

2. Accurate measurements. 

3. Careful combining of ingredients. 

4. Correct oven temperature. 

General Rules for All Cakes 

1. Prepare pans and light the oven. 

2. Make all measurements before beginning to combine. 

3. Measure all dry ingredients first, then liquids. Flour should be sifted 
before measuring. 

Methods of Preparing Pans 

1. Grease pan thoroughly and sprinkle with flour. 

2. Line bottom of pan with paper and grease paper and sides of pan. 
Use an unsalted fat for greasing pans. If butter is used, melt and allow 

salt to settle. Salt in a fat will cause the mixture to stick to the pan. 

If the mixture sticks in lemoving from the pan, place pan on a damp 
cloth and allow to steam for a few minutes. 

Time for baking cake should be divided into quarters as follows: 

First quarter, mixture should begin to rise. 

Second quarter, continue rising and begin to brown. 

Third quarter, continue browning. 

Fourth quarter, finish baking and shrink from pan. 

Test for oven: 

The oven for butter cake should turn a piece of white paper light brown 
in five minutes. 

The oven for sponge cake should turn a piece of white paper light yellow 
in five minutes'. 

Butter Cakes 

One Egg Cake 

J/3 c. butter 2 c. flour 

1 c. sugar 4 t. baking powder 

1 egg, beaten separately 1 t. vanilla 

1 c. milk 
1. Cream the butter. Butter should never be melted. Add sugar grad- 
ually to the butter and cream again. Separate the egg and add the beaten 
yolks to the sugar and butter. Sift the flour with the baking powder. Add 
the milk and flour alternately to the first mixture beginning with the flour. 
Add flavoring. Beat thoroughly. Fold in the beaten whites. Bake twenty 
to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. May be baked as a layer cake or a 
square loaf cake. 

Spice Cake 

y 2 c. butter l]/ 2 c. flour 

1 c. fine granulated sugar 1 t. vanilla 

y 2 c. sour milk J4 t. cloves 

Yz t. soda 1 t. cinnamon 

1 tb. molasses 1 c. raisins 

2 eggs, beaten separately *4 t. salt 



46 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

1. Cream the butter. Add the sugar gradually and cream again. Add 
the beaten yolks. Sift the flour, salt, soda and spices together. Add the 
molasses to the sour milk. Add the milk and flour alternately to the first 
mixture beginning with the flour. Sprinkle the raisins lightly with flour and 
add to the cake mixture. Add flavoring. Beat thoroughly. Fold in beaten 
whites. Bake thirty to forty minutes as a loaf. 

Cocoa Cake 

3 c. brown sugar Yz c. cocoa dissolved in y 2 c. 

2 eggs boiling water 

Yz c. fat 2 c. flour. 

Yz c. sour milk 2 t. baking powder 

1 t. soda 
Cream the butter and sugar together. Add the slightly beaten eggs and 
beat thoroughly. Dissolve the cocoa in the boiling water and add the milk. 
Add cocoa mixture to first mixture. Sift flour, baking powder and soda 
together and beat in thoroughly. Bake as a loaf in a moderate oven thirty 
minutes. 

Apple Sauce Cake 

Y2 c. butter substitute 1 t. soda 

1 c. sugar 2 tb. warm water 

Y2 t. cloves 1 c. apple sauce, thick and 

1 t. cinnamon strained 

1 c. raisins 3 c. flour 
Y2 t. nutmeg 

Cream together the butterine and sugar. Add the cloves, cinnamon, 
nutmeg and raisins. Stir the soda, dissolved in the warm water, into the 
apple sauce. Add the sauce to the first mixture. Beat this mixture thor- 
oughly. Add the flour. Pour into a loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven 
from 30 to 40 minutes. 

Frosting 

Chocolate Frosting 

2 squares chocolate 3 tb. hot water 

1 t. butter Confectioners' sugar 

Ya t. vanilla 
Melt chocolate over boiling water, add butter and hot water. Cool -<nd 
add sugar to make of right consistency to spread. Flavor with vanilla. 

White Mountain Cream 

Ya c. sugar 1 t. vanilla or 

Yz c. boiling water Y2 tb. lemon juice 

White of one egg 
Put sugar and water in saucepan and stir until sugar is dissolved. Heat 
gradually to boiling point and boil without stirring until syrup will form a 
soft ball when dropped from tip of spoon. Pour syrup gradually on beaten 
white of egg, beating mixture constantly and continue beating until of right 
consistency to spread. Add flavoring. 

Sponge Cakes 

Sponge Cake 
5 eggs Grated rind and juice of Yi 

1 c. granulated sugar lemon 

Ya t. salt 1 c pastry flour 

1. Sift flour and measure. 

2. Beat yolks of eggs 

3. Beat in sugar gradually. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 47 



4. Add flavoring and salt and beat. 

5. Fold in beaten whites. 

(!. Sift in flour and food but do not stir. 

A spongecake beaten after the addition of flour will be stiff and tough. 

7. Bake in an ungreased pan in a very slow oven for nearly an hour. 

8. Invert on cups and allow to cool before removing from pan. 

Smaller Sponge Cake 

3 eggs % t. salt 
Juice and grated rind of lemon y 2 c. sugar 

J A c. flour 
Put together in same manner as the above cake. 

Doughs 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

2 c. flour y 2 t. salt 

4 t. baking powder 1 tb. butter 
Va c. milk 1 tb. lard 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Chop in shortening with two knives; add 
milk gradually to form a soft dough, mixing with a knife. Toss on a floured 
board, roll lightly to Y inch thickness. Cut in rounds, place on a greased 
pan so that biscuits do not touch each other, and bake in a very hot oven 
fifteen minutes. 

Handle the dough as little as possible. 

Fruit Rolls or Pin Wheel Biscuits 

Make 1 pt. Baking Powder Biscuit dough. Roll 54-inch thick, brush 
with melted butter or water. Sprinkle with sugar, ]/ 3 c. stoned raisins', finely 
chopped, 2 tb. chopped citron, l / 3 t. cinnamon. Roll like jelly cake. Cut in 
34-inch slices. Bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. Currants may be 
substituted for raisins and citron. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

2 C flour 4 t. baking powder 

Vz t. salt y 3 c. butter 

Yk c. milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Chop in butter with two knives, stir in 
milk. Roll on a board very little or else divide mixture in half, smoothing 
it oyer 2 shallow buttered pans. Bake twelve minutes. Pick over, clean 
berries, save out some whole ones for top, crush rest slightly. Sweeten with 
sugar. Put berries between layers and on top. 

Imperial Cookies 

Vz c. butter 3 c. flour 

1 c. sugar 3 t. baking powder 

2 eggs y 2 t. lemon extract 
1 tb. milk y 2 t. grated nutmeg 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then add milk and beaten 
egg. Mix thoroughly. Then add the sifted dry ingredients and mix to make 
a dough. Turn out on a floured board, roll lightly and cut with a cutter 
which has been dipped in flour. Bake on a buttered pan in a moderate oven 
till light brown, about ten minutes. 



48 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Hermits 

Yi c. butter Vs c. raisins, stoned and cut in 

y 3 c. sugar small pieces 

1 egg Va t. cinnamon 

2 tb. milk Vz t. cloves 
1^4 c. flour Vz t. mace 

2 t. baking powder l A t. nutmeg 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, add raisins, well beaten egg and 
milk and mix thoroughly. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and spices 
and combine with first mixture. Drop by teaspoon on greased pan about 
one inch apart. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

2 c. rolled oats 1 t. soda in 4 tb. sour milk 

1 c. flour 1 c. raisins 

2 eggs Vz nuts if you wish 
1 c. brown sugar 

1 t. cinnamon , y j arc j 

V 4 c. shortening ( ^ butter • 

Cream the sugar and shortening together, add the eggs beaten slightly 
and beat together thoroughly, add raisins and nuts. Add the soda and 
the sour milk. Mix the flour, which has been sifted, with the cinnamon to 
the rolled oats' and combine mixtures. Drop by spoonfuls on a baking sheet 
about one inch apart. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Peanut Cookies 

2 tb. butter 1 egg, well beaten 
Y A c. sugar T A c. flour 

1 t. baking powder Vi tb. milk 

y A t. salt }i c chopped peanuts 

y 2 t. lemon juice 
Cream butter, add sugar gradually and egg well beaten. Mix and sift 
dry ingredients, add to first mixture. Add milk, peanuts and lemon juice. 
Drop from tip of spoon on unbuttered sheet one inch apart and place cne- 
half peanut on top of each. Bake 12 to 15 minutes in slow oven. 

Bread 

"Bread is the Staff of Life, but 
Bread and Butter is a Gold-headed Cane." 

Test flour for gluten. 

Use Spring Wheat flour. 

Bread dough is lightened by yeast. 

Yeast 

Yeast is a microscopic plant which grows very rapidly under proper 
conditions by budding. Conditions necessary for its growth are: 

1. Proper temperature — from 75° to 80° F. 

2. Proper food — gluten, or some nitrogenous food, and sugar. 

3. Moisture. 

Bread dough is the best soil for growing the yeast plant. The yeast 
changes the sugar into gas in carbon dioxide and alcohol. The gas being 
lighter than the dough, rises, and in its effort to escape, puffs up the elastic, 
glutinous mass to two or three times the original size. The alcohol escapes 
in the oven. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 49 

Three kinds of yeast are used for break- making : 

1. Dry. 

2. Liquid. 

3. Compressed. 

A good compressed yeast cake is known by its light even color. If 
fresh, it will have no dark spots. Liquid yeast is cultivated in a mixture of 
potatoes, sugar, water and hops. 

Kneading 

We knead bread the first time to develop the gluten and make the 
dough elastic, and to thoroughly mix the ingredients. It should be con- 
tinued until the dough will spring back into place when pressed with the 
finger. 

We knead bread the second time to break up the bubbles of gas which 
have formed during the rising, which, if left in, would make large holes in 
the bread. This kneading should be continued until the bread stops squeak- 
ing. 

Bread Is Baked 

1. To kill the yeast plant. 

2. To drive off the alcohol. 

3. To burst the starch cells. 

4. To improve color and flavor. 

Helpful Hints About Bread-Making 

1. To keep the dough from cooling, mix and. knead it quickly. In cold 
weather, warm the flour, the mixing bowl and the board. 

2. The longer the batter is beaten, the less kneading the dough will re- 
quire. When the dough can be lifted in a mass on the spoon, it is ready to 
knead. 

3. By using not less than one yeast-cake to one pint of liquid the fol- 
lowing advantages are gained: 

(a) The bread can be made and baked within five hours'. 

(b) It may be more easily kept clean and free from kitchen odors than 
if it stood longer. 

(c) It has not time to sour. 

4. Make small loaves to insure the bread's being baked through; in 
large loaves the heat may fail to penetrate to the center and some yeast may 
remain alive. 

5. The baking of bread should be divided into three equal periods. 
First period — bread should rise and become slightly brown. 
Second period — bread should not rise more, but continue to brown. 
Third period — bread should be a golden brown and should shrink from 

the pan. 

The oven should be hot for the first period, but heat should gradually 
decrease during the remainder of the baking. 

6. When baked, remove loaves from pans and set on edge in such a way 
that the air may circulate freely around all parts. When cold put in a clean, 
sweet bread-box, without any wrapping, as a cloth may give it a musty 
flavor. 

Milk and Water Bread 

1 pt. milk 3 t. salt 

1 pt. boiling water 1 cake yeast. Dissolve in 1 c. 

2 tb. sugar lukewarm water 

2 tb. lard or butter Flour to make soft dough 

Put the salt, sugar, shortening and milk in a bowl and pour over them 
the boiling water. When lukewarm, add the yeast and enough flour to make 



50 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

a dough. Turn on a well floured board and knead twenty minutes, or until 
it will work clear of the board without any flour. Put into a greased bowl, 
grease the top to prevent a hard crust from forming. Cover closely and 
do not let draughts of cold air strike it. Let rise till it doubles the size; 
over night in winter, about 4 hours in summer. Knead lightly to work out 
the bubbles of gas. Shape into loaves or rolls. Let loaves rise in the pan 
until double in size and bake forty to sixty minutes, or till a rich brown, 
and the loaf emits a hollow sound when tapped on the bottom. 

Rolls should rise in the pan until double in size, and bake in a hot 
oven twenty minutes. 

Parker House Rolls 

Scald 1 pt. milk. Add 2 tb. butter, 2 tb. sugar and 1 t. salt. When 
lukewarm, add y 2 yeast, cake dissolved in y 2 c water. Add flour to make a 
soft dough. Knead 20 minutes. Let rise till it doubles in size, shape into 
rolls. Let rise 1 to 1^4 hours. Bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. Brush with 
milk or butter. 

Graham Bread 

1 pt. milk, scalded y 2 cake yeast 

V 2 c. molasses 2 c. white flour 

1 t. salt 3 to 3 l / 2 c. sifted graham flour 

Add molasses and salt to milk. When lukewarm, add the yeast dissolved 

in y 2 c. sugar. Add more flour till a dough is formed a little softer than 

for white bread. Beat well. Let rise till it doubles in size. Stir down. 

Pour into greased baking-pans, let rise 34 hour and bake a little longer in a 

more moderate oven than "for white bread. 

This recipe may be used for Whole Wheat Bread by substituting Entire 

Wheat flour for the graham flour. 

German Coffee Bread 

1 c. scalded milk l /z yeast cake dissolved in y c. 

Yi c. butter or butter and lard lukewarm water 

Y\ c. sugar y 2 c. raisins, stoned and cut in 

V 2 t. salt pieces 

1 egg 
Flour to make stiff batter. Add butter, sugar and salt to milk; let stand 
until lukewarm; add yeast, egg well beaten, flour and raisins; cover and let 
rise over night, in morning spread one-half inch thick in buttered dripping- 
pan. Cover and let rise again. Just before baking brush with beaten egg 
and cover with the following mixture; melt 3 tb. butter, add one-third c. 
sugar and 1 t. cinnamon; when sugar is partly melted add 3 tb. flour. 

Quick Breads 

Baked Brown Bread 

1 tb. butter, melted y 2 t. salt 

1 c. New Orleans molasses, 3 c. sour milk 

dark 2 t. soda 

Sifted graham flour to make a very soft dough. 

Mix in order given, bake in a slow oven forty-five minutes. Butter the 
crust after taking bread from the oven. 

Whole Wheat Bread 

4 c. entire wheat flour 2 tb. sugar 

4 t. baking powder 1 t. salt 

About 1 pt. milk 
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk to form a drop batter Bake in 
a moderate oven in a greased bread pan from thirty to forty minutes. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 51 

Graham Bread 

2 l /z c. Graham flour l / 2 t. salt 

l /> c. white flour 1 t. soda 

Vi c. sugar 2 c. sour milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add the sour milk and beat thoroughly. 

Bake in a moderate oven l / 2 to 34 hour. 

Nut Bread 

4 c. white flour 2 c. milk 

4 t. baking powder 1 egg well beaten 

y 2 c. sugar 1 c. chopped nuts 

Yz c. raisins 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk to beaten egg and combine mix- 
tures. Add nuts and raisins and beat thoroughh-. Put into greased bread 
pan and let stand twenty minutes to rise. Bake in a moderate oven 30 to 40 
minutes. 

Note: — Half graham and half white flour may be used in place of all 
white flour. 

Boston Brown Bread 

1 c. rye meal 2 c. sour milk or 1^ c. sweet 

1 c. granulated corn meal milk or water 

1 c. graham flour 1 t. salt 

2 t. soda 34 c. molasses 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add molasses and milk. Beat well. Pour 
into well buttered moulds, and steam 3 l / 2 hours. The cover should be buttered. 
Never fill the mould more than two-thirds full. Baking powder cans or lard 
pails may be used for molds. 



Chapter IX. 
Desserts 

Corn Starch Mould 

1 qt. milk, scalded. % t. salt 

14 c. corn starch Y 2 c. cold milk or water 

y 2 c. sugar 1 t. vanilla 

Mix corn starch, sugar and salt, add cold milk or water and stir, then 

pour this in a fine stream, stirring constantly into the hot milk; cool until 

thick in double boiler. Pour into moulds, which have been chilled in water; 

turn out and serve with a boiled custard. One-half cup cocoa may be mixed 

with dry material. 

Rice Pudding 

y 2 c. rice V 2 t. salt 

y 2 c. sugar 1 qt. milk 

y 2 c. raisins, if liked. 

Wash rice, mix ingredients, pour into a pudding dish. Cover at first 
stirring occasionally. Bake from three to four hours in a slow oven, or until 
milk is' absorbed. Serve hot or cold. 



DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Bread Pudding 

1 qt. scalded milk 2 eggs 

y 3 c. sugar V 2 t. salt 

2 c. stale bread crumbs 1 t. vanilla or 
% c. melted butter ]4 t. spice 

Add bread crumbs to milk; when cool add sugar, eggs slightly beaten, 
salt, butter and flavoring; bake one hour in buttered pudding dish in a slow 
oven. Serve with vanilla sauce. 

Cottage Pudding 

1 egg 1 c. milk 
Y A c. sugar J A t. salt 

1^2 tb. butter 3 t. baking powder 

2J4 c. flour 
Cream butter, add sugar, beaten egg, milk, sifted dry ingredients. Bake 
in shallow pan about 25 or 30 minutes. Serve hot with sauce. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

2 c. flour 4 tb. butter 
Vz t. salt 1 egg 

3 t: baking powder 1 c. milk (scant) 

2 sour apples 
Mix dry ingredients, rub in the butter. Add milk and beaten egg. Spread 
on shallow pans. Pare and cut apples in eighths, lay them in parallel rows 
on top of dough, pressing them in lightly. Sprinkle top with 2 tb. sugar and 
y$ t. cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven 20 to 30 minutes. Serve with lemon 
sauce. 

Apple Tapioca 

24 c. pearl or y 2 t. salt 

y 2 c. minute tapioca 7 sour apples 

Cold water y 2 c. sugar 

2y 2 c. boiling water 
Soak tapioca one hour in cold water to cover, drain, add boiling water 
and salt; cook in double boiler until transparent. Core and pare apples, 
arrange in buttered pudding dish, fill cavities with sugar, pour over tapioca 
and bake in moderate oven until apples are soft. Serve with sugar and cream 
or Cream Sauce I. Minute tapioca requires no soaking. 

Apple Snow 

4 sour apples y 2 c. powdered sugar 
3 whites of eggs y 2 c. jelly 

Pare, quarter and core the apples. Steam until soft, and rub through 
strainer. Beat whites of eggs until stiff, add gradually to sweetened apples, 
and continue to beat until like snow. Pile lightly on glass dish. Garnish 
with jelly. Serve with boiled custard. 

Graham Pudding 

1 egg y 2 c. molasses 

34 c. butter y 2 c. milk 

y 2 t. soda 1 c. raisins', seeded and cut in 

1 t. salt pieces 

~\.y> c. graham flour 
Melt butter, add molasses and milk, the beaten egg, sifted dry ingredients, 
raisins. Turn into a buttered mould and steam 2^ hours or in cups 1 hour. 
Serve with sauce. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 53 

Suet Pudding 

2 l /> c. flour 1 c. molasses 

1 t. soda 1 c. chopped suet 

l A t. salt 1 c. raisins or currants or half 

l /i t. cinnamon of each 

l /i t. nutmeg 1 c. water or milk 

Sift salt, soda and spice with the flour; add suet, raisins. Beat in the 
water and molasses. Steam in a buttered mould 3 hours' or in cups 1 hour. 
If water is used, add J4 c. more flour. Serve hot with sauce. 

To Prepare Raisins 

Pour boiling water over them and allow them to remain in it for a few 
minutes. Drain, cut open with pointed knife and remove stones. They mav 
be left whole, cut in halves, quarters, or chopped. 

To Clean Currants 

Look over carefully and remove all foreign substances. Rub thoroughly 
with flour, put currants in a colander, place in a pan of cold water and 
rinse, changing water until it is clear. Roll in a towel and dry in a moder- 
ately warm place. 

To Prepare Suet 

Remove outside skin, cut in small pieces, flour sufficiently to prevent 
it sticking together, and chop very fine. Suet should always be prepared in 
a cool place. 

Pudding Sauces 

Hard Sauce 

2 tb. butter l / 2 c. powdered sugar 

J^2 t. flavoring 

Cream the butter, add sugar and flavoring. Beat till very light and put 
on ice till hard. Light brown sugar may be used instead of powdered sugar. 

Lemon Sauce 

2 c. boiling water 2 tb. corn starch. 

1 c. sugar 2 tb. butter 

Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon 

Mix corn starch and sugar, add boiling water, and boil until clear. Re- 
move from fire and add flavoring and butter. 

Vanilla Sauce 

%. c. butter 1 slightly rounding tb. of corn 

Vi c. sugar starch 

Y2 t. vanilla 1 c. boiling water 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, beat well, add a very little cold 
water to the corn starch, pour the boiling water over it, and stir over the 
fire until clear and bubbles. Pour this hot mixture over the butter and 
sugar just before serving. Flavor with vanilla. 



54 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Hot Chocolate Sauce 

y 2 c. sugar 3 oz. Baker's chocolate 

y 2 c. water 1 t. vanilla 

Boil sugar and water together five minutes, add chocolate, cook till 
smooth. Add vanilla. Serve with pudding or ice cream. 

Sugar Syrup 

1 c. sugar Ya c. water 

Boil together slowly for ten minutes and serve with hot cakes. 1 tb.. 
lemon juice may be added. 



Caramel Sauce 

y 2 c. sugar y 2 c boiling water 

Melt sugar to a caramel, add water and boil 10 minutes. 

Milk and Egg Combination Desserts 

Soft Custard 

2 c. scalded milk *4 c. sugar 

Yolks 3 eggs or y% t. salt 

2 whole eggs y> t. vanilla 

Scald milk in a double boiler. Beat the eggs; add sugar and salt. Add 
hot milk to this mixture, return to double boiler, and cook stirring constantly 
until mixture coats the spoon. Strain, flavor and cool. 

Floating Island 

Make soft custard using the yolks of three eggs. Prepare a meringue 
by beating the whites of the eggs until stiff, and then add 1 tb. of sugar for 
each egg-white. Drop the meringue by spoonfuls on the custard. If desired 
garnish with bits of jelly. 

Tapioca Cream 

\y> tb. minute tapioca Whites 2 eggs 

1 pt. milk y, c. sugar 

Yolks 2 eggs y% t. salt 

y 2 t. vanilla 
Put tapioca and milk in top of double boiler, cook until tapioca is trans- 
parent and soft. Beat yolks, add sugar and salt. Pour hot mixture slowly 
on to the beaten yolks, sugar and salt. Return to double boiler and cook, 
stirring constantly until it thickens slightly or until, it coats the spoon. Re- 
move from fire, cool. While the mixture is cooking beat whites until stiff. 
Add whites and vanilla. Beat until no white is seen. Serve cold. 

Baked Custard 

3 tb. sugar 1 pt. milk 
y% t. salt 3 eggs 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Add the sugar and salt to the beaten 
eggs and pour the scalding milk over them. Put in a baking-dish or cups, 
grate nutmeg over the top. Set the dish in a pan of hot water, and bake 
till a knife, when inserted, will come out clean. If baked too long the cus- 
tard will separate and be watery. When done, take out of the water and 
set away to cool. Serve very cold. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 55 

Caramel Custard 

4 c. scalded milk H c. sugar 

5 eggs Vi t. salt 

1 t. vanilla 

Put sugar in omelet pan, stir constantly over heat until melted to a 
syrup of light brown color. Add gradually to milk, being careful that milk 
does not bubble up and go over, as is liable on account of high temperature 
of sugar. As soon as sugar is melted in the milk, add mixture gradually to 
eggs slightly beaten, add salt and flavoring, then strain into a buttered mould. 

Bake as custard. Chill and serve with caramel sauce. 

Pastry 

General Rules 

1. Pastry, if it is to be served at all, should be light, tender, and flaky, 
as it is more digestible. 

2. All of the materials must be as cold as possible. Pastry flour should 
be used. 

3. The following fats may be used alone or in combinations of two: 
butter, butterine, lard, cottolene, beef drippings. 

Butter alone gives a very good color and flavor, but pastry is not so 
tender. Lard alone is so soft that it makes the crust crumble. Equal parts 
of lard and butter make the best crust. 

4. The fat should not be cut very fine if a flaky crust is desired. 

5. Use as little water as possible. 

6. The dough should be mixed with a knife and not touched with the 
hands. 

7. When a shell is to be made from the crust, it should be baked on 
the outside of plate, then filled. In this case the crust must be pricked all 
over with a fork so that it may keep its shape. 

8. To line a plate with pastry, roll the pastry on a slightly floured board 
until it is one-eighth of an inch thick, keeping it as nearly round as possible, 
and roll it until it is one inch larger than the plate. Fit it smoothly on the 
plate, being careful not to stretch it. No greasing of tin is required. 

9. If two crusts are used, moisten the edge of the lower crust with cold 
water, then fill and place the upper crust over the pie and press the edges 
together with the back of a fork, or fold the upper crust under the edges of 
the lower crust and press well together. The upper crust should also be one 
inch larger than the plate to allow for shrinkage and also folding it under 
the lower crust. Incisions should be made in it to allow the steam which 
forms to escape. 

10. If no upper crust is to be used, the lower crust should be one inch 
larger than the plate and should be folded under to form a rim. 

11. The oven for pastry should turn a piece of white paper dark brown 
in five minutes. 

Paste for Pies 

\y 2 c. flour. Yz c. lard or equal parts of lard 

y 2 t. salt or crisco and butter 

Cold water 

Mix salt and flour. Chop in shortening. Moisten to a very stiff dough 
with water. 



56 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Apple Pie 

4 or 5 sour apples 1 t. butter 

Yz c. sugar 1 t. lemon juice 

*4 t. grated nutmeg 2 tb. water 

y% t. salt Few gratings lemon rind 

Line pie plates with paste. Pare, core and cut apples into eighths, and 
cover plate evenly with them. Mix sugar, salt, lemon juice and rind and 
sprinkle over apples. Dot over with butter. Put on an upper crust. Bake 
40 to 45 minutes in a moderate oven. If apples are well flavored, lemon 
juice and rind may be omitted. Evaporated apples may be used but should 
be soaked over night. 

Pumpkin Pie 

V/i c. stewed and sifted V 2 t. salt 

pumpkin Vi t. ginger 

1 c. scalded milk 1 t. cinnamon 
Yt. c. sugar 1 egg 

Beat egg slightly, then mix ingredients in the order given. Line a pie 
plate with pastry, put on a rim, and pour in the mixture. Bake unt ; l mixture 
is firm and pastry well browned. 

Lemon Pie 

2 tb. corn starch Juice and grated rind of 1 large 
2 tb. cold water lemon 

1 c. boiling water Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 c. sugar 1 tb. butter 

In top of double boiler mix cornstarch and cold water, add boiling water 
and cook directly over the fire, stirring constantly until mixture thickens. 
Add sugar. Remove from fire. Beat yolks of eggs until light. Pour hot 
mixture slowly on to the beaten yolks. Return to double boiler, add lemon 
and butter. Cook over water until egg thickens. Cool and fill crust. Cover 
with meringue and bake until light brown. 

Meringue 

2 egg whites 2 tb. powdered sugar 

Beat whites until stiff, gradually beat in the sugar. Meringue requires a 
cool oven. 

Gelatine 

Gelatine is a substance obtained by cooking cleaned bones, skins and 
connective tissues of animals in boiling water for a long time. There are 
three forms of gelatine, sheet, stick and powdered. 

Gelatine softens and swells in cold water, is dissolved in boiling water 
and turns to a jelly when chilled. 

Gelatine should not be boiled as it will not harden when cooled. 

General Rules 

Jellies should be cooled as quickly as possible. 

Jellies should always be strained. 

Acid jellies should not be moulded in tin. 

Moulds should be wet with cold water before using. 

To unmould jellies dip quickly into hot water 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 57 

Lemon Jelly 

Yz box gelatine or 2 tb. granu- 2Y2 c. boiling water 

lated gelatine 1 c. sugar 

Yi c. cold water Yz c. lemon juice 

Soak gelatine in the cold water, add the boiling water, stir until gelatine 
is dissolved, add sugar and lemon juice and strain. Turn into a mould wet in 
cold water and chill. 

Snow Pudding 

Y\ box gelatine or 1 c. boiling water 

1 tb. granulated gelatine 1 c. sugar 

Ya c. cold water Ya c. lemon juice 

Whites 3 eggs 

Put gelatine to soak in the cold water, add the boiling water and stir 
until gelatine is dissolved, then add sugar and lemon juice. Strain and set 
aside to cool, stir mixture occasionally. When quite thick as molasses beat 
with a Dover beater until frothy; add the egg whites beaten stiff and con- 
tinue beating until stiff enough to hold its shape. Mould. Serve cold with a 
boiled custard. 

Jellied Prunes 

Y2 lb. prunes 1 c. sugar 

2 c. cold water — boiling water Ya c. lemon juice 
Y2 c cold water Whites 3 eggs 

Yi box gelatine 

Wash prunes and soak for several hours in the 2 c. cold water, cook in 
same water till soft. Remove prunes, stone, and cut in quarters. To the 
prune water add enough boiling water to make 1 pt. Add gelatine that has 
been soaked in the Y c. cold water, stir till dissolved. Add lemon juice and 
sugar, pour over the prunes. Stir twice till stiffened. 

Serve with sweetened cream or boiled custard. 

Frozen Desserts 
Freezing 

General Rules 

I. Use rock salt. II. Pound ice fine. III. Scald can, dasher and 
cover. IV. Fit can into socket in pail. V. Fill the space between can and 
pail with alternate layers of ice and salt, using three measures of ice, then 
one of salt, letting it come a little above the height of liquid in can. 
VI. Turn the crank slowly and steadily until the cream is rather stiff, 
then more quickly. VII. Remove the dasher, scrape cream from the sides 
of the can and pack it down level, put a cork in the hole in the cover, draw 
off the water, repack with ice and salt, cover with an old blanket or piece of 
carpet and let stand at least one hour before using. 

Lemon Milk Sherbet 

1 qt. milk Grated rind 2 lemons 

1 c. sugar Juice of 2 lemons 

Beaten whites 2 eggs 
Put milk, sugar and rind into freezer and thoroughly mix; half freeze: 
then remove the dasher, and stir into mixture the lemon juice, beaten whites 
and vanilla if desired, return dasher and finish freezing. 



58 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Lemon Ice 

4 c. water 2 c. sugar 

$4 c. lemon juice 
Make a syrup by boiling water and sugar 10 minutes'; add lemon juice; 
cool, strain and freeze. 

Strawberry Ice 

4 c. water 1 tb. lemon juice 

l l A c. sugar 2 c. strawberry juice 

Make a syrup as for lemon ice, cool, add strawberries, mashed and 
squeezed through double cheese cloth, and lemon juice; strain and freeze. 

Ice Cream 

34 c. sugar 1 qt. thin cream 

V/2 t. vanilla 
Scald y 2 the cream, add sugar and flavoring. When cool add remait.ing 
cream and freeze. 

Junket Ice Cream 

1 pt. milk y 2 tb. vanilla 

Yi c. double cream y 2 junket tablet 

J/2 c. sugar 1 tb. cold water 

Crush junket and let stand in cold water to dissolve. Heat the milk, 
cream and sugar and vanilla to about 90 degrees F. Stir in the dissolved 
tablet, pour into the can of the freezer, and let stand in a warm place until 
the mixture "sets" or jellies. Do not jar the mixture while it is jellying. 
Then set freezer in can and freeze. 

Chapter X. 

Preserving 

Under ordinary conditions foods can not be kept for any length of time 
in a good, wholesome condition because bacteria, yeasts and moulds will 
find their way to the food, and it will mould, decay and "spoil," for the 
spoiling of food is simply the result of its consumption by tiny living beings, 
called bacteria. In order to prevent this, we use various methods of preserv- 
ing. 

The methods generally used are cold storage, drying, salting, pickhng, 
smoking, canning, by the use of oil and also by the use of antiseptics such 
as borax and salicylic acid. 

Preserving in the ordinary sense means the cooking of fruits in a thick 
syrup made of equal or nearly equal weights of sugar and fruit, little or no 
water being used, according to the fruit. 

By this method the water is drawn out and the sugar takes its place. 
Preserving includes the making of jellies, jams' and marmalades. 

Canning is preserving sterilized foods in sterilized, air tight cans or 
jars. Meats, fish, vegetables and fruits are thus' preserved. In canning, 
fruits are rendered sterile or free from germ life by boiling. 

Canning Fruits and Vegetables 

Selecting Fruits and Vegetables for Canning 

All fruits and vegetables used for canning should be young, freshly picked 
and not overripe. "Specked" fruit may be used if the imperfect parts are 
carefully cut away. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 59 

Methods of Canning 

There are two principal methods of canning, the open kettle and the cold- 
pack methods. 

Open-Kettle Method 

The open-kettle method is so called because the product to be canned 
is cooked in an open kettle and then put into sterile jars and sealed. This 
method is effective only for canning fruits and tomatoes. 

When the open-kettle method is used the rubbers, covers, and jars must 
be sterilized before the cooked fruit is put into them. The jars, rubbers and 
covers are washed, put into a large pan on a rack or thick pad to prevent 
them from resting on the bottom of the pan. They are then covered with 
cold water which is brought slowly to the boiling point and allowed to boil 
ten minutes. 

The fruit to be canned should be crushed, peeled or pared, and cooked 
in a sugar syrup until tender. The syrup used may be either thick, medium 
or thin, according to the fruit being canned (see directions). When tomatoes 
are canned by this method, scald them first, remove skins, cut into quarters 
or eighths, boil from 20 to 30 minutes and put into sterilized jars. 

In canning by this method care should be taken that all air bubbles are 
removed and that the jars are filled to overflowing before sealing. 

Sterilizing — Put jars and covers into a dish pan, cover with cold water 
and bring to the boiling point. Always dip the spoon, strainer, rubbers, etc., 
into the boiling water before using. 

To fill jars — Remove jars from the boiling water, and stand them on a 
cloth wet in boiling water; fill the jars with fruit a little at a time, then fill 
the jars to overflowing with syrup. Before putting on the cover, with the 
handle of a silver spoon press* down inside the edge of jar to allow confined 
air to escape, fill again, and seal at once. Always use new rubbers, old rub- 
bers become porous, and let in air. 

Canned Peaches 

Pare the peaches, dropping them into cold water to prevent discoloring. 
Make a syrup, allowing 1 c. of water to 1 c. of sugar. Boil it 15 minutes; 
put in peaches a few at a time and cook until soft. 

Canned Pears 

Wipe and pare fruit. Cook whole with stems left on, or cut in halves 
and core. Follow directions for canning peaches. A small piece of gir.ger 
root or lemon rind may be cooked with syrup. 

Tomatoes Canned for Stewing or Soup 

Wipe the tomatoes, cover with boiling water, and let stand until skins 
may be easily removed. Cut in pieces and boil fifteen or twenty minutes; 
skim often during cooking. Fill jars to overflowing and seal. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 

Yz pk. peaches 1 pt. vinegar 

1 oz. stick cinnamon 2 lbs. brown sugar 

Cloves 
Boil sugar, vinegar and cinnamon twenty minutes. Peel the peaches 
and stick four cloves in each peach. Put them, into the syrup and cook until 
easily pierced with a fork. Put in jars and fill jars with syrup. 

Cold-Pack Method 

The cold-pack method consists in packing the raw or blanched product 
into the jar and cooking (sterilizing) the whole at one time in boiling water 



60 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

or steam. It is on the whole the more satisfactory method because it saves 
time and labor and because either fruit, vegetables, or meat keep indefinitely 
if sufficient time is given to processing. 

Types of Canners — Home-Made and Commercial 

A wash boiler or a deep pan with a tightly fitting cover makes a good 
home-made canner if a rack is' used to prevent the cans from resting on the 
bottom. 

Commercial pressure canners or steamers may be used very effectively 
for this process. Complete directions for their use always come with such 
outfits. 

Canning Fruit by the Cold-Pack Method 

Fruits canned by the cold-pack method are usually packed with syrup, 
but hot water alone may be used and the sugar added when the fruit is 
served. 

Canning Vegetables by the Cold-Pack Method 

Vegetables are usually packed in slightly salted water called brine. This 
is made by adding 1 level teaspoon of salt to a pint of water. Certain vege- 
tables, for example peas and corn, are improved by adding 1 teaspoon of 
sugar to a pint of brine. 

When canning tomatoes, the brine may be made of strained tomato 
juice instead of water. Cooked tomatoes are used for making this juice. 

Steps in the Cold-Pack Process 

1. Clean jars and test and adjust rubbers. 

2. Prepare material to be canned according to directions given on charts. 

3. Hot-dip (blanch or scald) the prepared material. This process con- 
sists in (plunging) immersing the prepared product in boiling water for 
different lengths of time according to the material to be canned. (See Chart). 
Hot-dipping shrinks the product and enables one to pack more material in 
a jar. 

4. Cold-dip the material. This process consists in plunging the blanched 
or scalded food into cold water which makes it easier to handle. 

(Steps 3 and 4 are not necessary in canning some fruits. These are 
indicated in the chart.) 

5. Pack material in the jar. Cover with liquid (syrup or brine.) 

6. Remove air bubbles by inserting fork or knife blade close to the side 
of the jar. The opening thus made allows the bubbles to escape. 

7. Adjust the cover of the jar but do not fasten it down too tight. 

8. Process.* Place in canner and cook according to time given on 
chart. Do not begin to count time until the water boils. At the end of the 
period, remove from cooker and seal tight at once. Test for leaks by turning 
jar upside down. Leaks are caused by defective rubbers which may be re- 
placed by new ones which have been boiled for 3 minutes. If the jars have 
cooled when' the leaks are discovered, they must be reprocessed until the 
contents are thoroughly reheated. Jars should be cooked gradually and all 
drafts should be avoided. 

9. Store canned goods in a cool, dark place. Turn jars of berries on 
their sides for several days bafore storing. This distributes the fruit evenly. 

*A few years ago the so-called intermittent process was used for canning 
vegetables. It was believed to be necessary to cook the product for a short 
time for several successive days'. While this process is still admitted to be 
satisfactory, it has been found. that one long period of time will can the 
vegetables successfully. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 



61 



Making Syrups 

Canning syrup is prepared by mixing 2 cups' of sugar and 3 cups of 
water and boiling it for different lengths of time. 

1. Thin. The sugar and water is boiled for 2 or 3 minutes. This be- 
gins to be sticky when cooled on a spoon. Used for raspberries and most 
soft berries. 

2. Medium Thick. The sugar and water boiled 6 to 8 minutes. This 
catches over the edge of spoon or rolls up as you pour it out. It is used 
for gooseberries, strawberries, red raspberries, apricots, sour apples or any 
sour fruits. 

3. Thick Syrup. The sugar and water is boiled from 8 to 12 minutes. 
(Avoid crystalization). This is of the right consistency when it is hard to 
pour because of thickness. It is used for both fire-cooked and sun-cooked 
preserves. 

TIME TABLE FOR COLD-PACK CANNING 



Product 


Blanch and 
Cold Dip 


Preparation 
Skin, cut in halves 


Sterilization 


Remarks 


Peaches 


1-2 min. 


16 min. 








remove pits, add 






Plums 




syrup. 

Wash and pack 


16 min. 




Pears 




add syrup. 

Pare, core, pack, 


20 min. 




Strawberries 




add syrup. 
Wash before hull- 
ing, pack, add 


16 min. 


Allow to stand up- 
side down over 


Tomatoes 


1^2 min. 


syrup. 

Without syrup. 
Skin, cut out 
blemishes and 
blossom end. 
Pack, press down 
add no water. 
Add 1 t. salt per 

qt. 

Scrape, pack, add 


30 min. 
22 min. 


night. 


Carrots 


5 min. 


90 min. 








boiling water 










add 1 t. salt per 










qt. 







Method of Making Jelly 

I. Jelly should be clear and sparkling and retain the flavor of the fresh 
fruit. 

Use only perfect fruit and be sure it is not too ripe. 

II. Except in case of currants and grapes, the fruit should be cut in 
small pieces' and cooked with little or no water; use a wooden spoon to 
stir while cooking. Strain juice through a pointed bag; for first-grade jelly 
do not squeeze the bag. 

Measure juice in glass cups and allow 1 lb. sugar to every pint of 
juice. Bring the juice slowly to the boiling point; using a granite pan. 
Meanwhile have the sugar in the oven to heat so the boiling can go on, 
and when the juice has boiled slightly add the heated sugar. Boil slightly 
and skim carefully, being particular not to stir it; boil five minutes, then try 
on a cold plate. If a thin scum forms quickly, pour at once into sterilized 
jars. Fill glass full as it shrinks in cooling. 



62 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

III. Before using the jelly bag sterilize it by dipping it in boiling water. 

IV. Methods' of excluding air from jam or jellies: Cover with paper 
the underside of which has been coated with white of egg. Cover with 
melted paraffine. Melt in saucepan and pour over the cold jelly to the 
depth of about % inch. 

Crab Apple Jelly 

Cut apples in quarters, without removing skins or cores. Cover with 
cold water and boil gently until soft. Proceed as in method of making 
jellies. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Cook 1 quart cranberries in 1 c. boiling water over a hot fire, about 
5 minutes, or until the berries burst. With a wooden spoon press the pulp 
through a coarse sieve, add 1 pt. of sugar, and stir over the fire until the 
sugar is dissolved and the mixture begins to simmer, then skim, and pour 
into cup to cool. 

Grape Jelly 

Wash and remove grapes' from stems, put in granite kettle with one cup 
of water to prevent fruit from sticking. Cook until quite soft, pour into 
double jelly bag, allow to drip over night. Measure juice, place in kettle 
and bring to boiling point. Add 24 CU P of sugar for each cup of juice. 
Boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, test with cold plate. 

Grape Jam 

Remove grapes from the stem, wash in -cold water, squeeze pulp from 
skins, then boil the pulp until the seeds will separate easily; press through 
a sieve, add one-half the skins to the pulp and measure. Allow 1 c. sugar to 
2 c. grapes. Boil gently for 15 minutes or longer, if necessary. Jam should 
be quite thick. Pour into jars or glasses, cool and cover with prepared 
paper or melted paraffine. 

Amber Marmalade 

1 grape fruit 1 lemon 

1 orange 7 pts. cold water 

10 c. sugar (5 lb.) 
Wash fruit and wipe. Cut into quarters', then cut them, peel and pulp 
into thin slices, discarding seeds. Add cold water and let stand over night. 
Cook until peel is tender, 2 or 3 hours. Set aside over night. Heat and add 
sugar and cook, stirring occasionally until syrup thickens slightly on a cold 
dish. Test same as for jelly. Second boiling will take 2 hours. 

Chapter XI. 
Sandwiches 

Sandwiches are best when prepared just before serving, but for the 
lunch or picnic basket they may be kept wrapped in confectioners' or oiled 
paper. For large companies they may be kept wrapped in a damp cloth 
wrung as dry as possible, then surround with a dry cloth or covered with 
a large earthen bowl. 

Rules for salads hold good at all times for sandwiches. 

Any variety of bread 24 hours old may be used. Sometimes two varieties 
are combined in the same sandwich. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 63 

Let the bread, freed from crust, be cut into slices one-eighth inch thick. 

Cream butter to insure its spreading smoothly and evenly. Avoid 
spreading the butter or the filling over the edges. 

When slices of meat are used, let them be cut as thin as wafers and 
use more than one in each sandwich. 

Cold meats may be minced fine and a little salad dressing used with 
them. 

Salted meats and fish give sandwiches a very pronounced flavor. 

Acids in form of lemon juice, chopped pickles of capers are improve- 
ments to these and all fish sandwich mixtures. 

Sweet sandwiches are served with cocoa or tea; jams and marmalades 
are the usual fillings'. • 

Sandwiches are dantier if made small. 

Egg Sandwiches 

Chop hard cooked eggs fine, season with salt and pepper and moisten 
with salad dressing. Spread mixture between thin slices of buttered bread. 
Lettuce may be used. 

Lettuce Sandwich 

Trim thin slices of bread into shape, spread with salad dressing, and 
put pieces of lettuce between the slices. Wrap each sandwich in oiled paper 
if for picnics or traveling. 

Ham Sandwiches 

Chop cold boiled ham fine. To each half c. of chopped ham add % t. 
mustard, a speck of paprika, and moisten with salad dressing. Spread be- 
tween thin slices of buttered bread. 

Sauted Cheese Sandwiches 

Mix grated cheese with salad dressing and spread between slices of 
buttered bread. Dip in white of egg slightly beaten with 1 tb. milk. Cook 
in hot fat until a delicate brown. 

Brown Bread Sandwiches 

Brown bread to be used for sandwiches is best steamed in one-pound 
baking powder boxes. Spread and cut bread as for other sandwiches. Put 
between layers finely chopped peanuts' seasoned with salt, or grated cheese 
mixed with chopped English walnut meats seasoned with salt. 

Ham and Pickles 

y 2 lb. boiled ham, chopped 6 sweet pickles or 12 stuffed 

fine olives 

Mix ingredients together thoroughly. Add mayonnaise dressing to mois- 
ten. Spread between thin slices of buttered bread, placing lettuce between 
the slices. 

Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 

1 cake cream cheese % c. finely chopped nuts 

Cream or Mayonnaise to moisten 
Spread between thin slices of buttered bread, placing a lettuce leaf be- 
tween the slices. 



64 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Chapter XII. 
Invalid Cooking 

In preparing food for an invalid, the following points should be observed: 

The preparation and serving of food is of special importance in illness. 
Food for invalids should be perfectly cooked, attractively served and all 
utensils used should be scrupulously clean. 

Food should be suited to the digestive powers of the patient, and should 
be served in small quantities, just enough to satisfy hunger or to furnish 
needed strength. 

In a severe illness the doctor prescribes the kind and amount of food 
to be given. In long and protracted illness it is necessary to take nourishing 
food in small quantities at frequent intervals. In short spells of illness it 
is sometimes best to go without food for a day or more so as to give the 
system complete rest. 

The following foods are easily digested and are given to invalids: milk, 
eggs (raw or slightly cooked), beef tea, gelatinous jellies, gruels, well-cooked 
cereals, juice of oranges, grapes and other fruits, frozen desserts. 

Serving Food 

Use the daintiest dishes in the house. Place a clean napkin on a tray 
and, if possible, a fresh flower. 

Serve everything in small quantities, as it is more tempting to a delicate 
appetite. 

Try to surprise the patients by some unexpected food and in this way 
induce them td take nourishment. 

Serve hot food hot and cold food cold. 

Remove the tray as soon as food is eaten, as food should never stand in 
a sick room. 

Toast 

Cut stale bread in %. inch slices. Move gently over a fire in a toaster 
till dry, then hold it nearer till a golden brown. Or, dry it out in the oven 
and then brown it. 

Cream or Milk Toast 

1 c. milk, scalded 1 tb. butter 

Y$ t. salt Va tb. flour 

Make a white sauce of above ingredients, pour this between the slices 
of toast and over the whole. Serve very hot. 

Albuminized Orange 

1 egg white 1 tb. sugar 

1 orange 
Beat white of egg and orange juice until well blended, add sugar and 
beat. Serve cold. 

Egg Nog 

Beat one egg, add 1 t. sugar, pinch salt, and beat till creamy. Add Ya c. 
milk. Sprinkle the top with grated nutmeg. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 65 



Cracker Gruel 

4 tb. powdered crackers 1 c. boiling water 

y 2 t. salt 1 c. milk 

Mix the salt with cracker, add to the milk and water, cook for a few 
minutes, strain and add more salt if needed. 

Oatmeal Gruel 

Yi c. coarse oatmeal Vz t. salt 

3 c. boiling water Milk 

Add oatmeal and salt to boiling water and cook three hours in a double 
boiler. Force through a strainer, dilute with milk and cream, reheat and 
serve. 

Flaxseed Lemonade 

1 tb. whole flaxseed Lemon juice 

1 pt. boiling water Sugar 

Pick over and wash the flaxseed, add water and cook two hours, keeping 
just below the boiling point. Strain, add lemon, and sugar to taste. 

Beef Tea 

Remove all fat from 1 lb. round steak. Put meat through meat chopper, 
and put in a glass fruit jar. Pour 2 c. cold water over it and let soak Vz hr. 
Set in a kettle of cold water and heat gradually. Keep the water below 
boiling point 2 hours. Strain, add a little salt and serve. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 



67 



INDEX 



A 

Abbreviations 8, 9 

Albumen 28 

White of Egg 28 

Albuminized Orange 64 

Amber Marmalade 62 

Apples 35 

Baked 35 

Apple Sauce Cake 46 

Pie 56 

Sauce, 1 35 

Sauce, II 35 

Scalloped 35 

Snow 52 

Tapioca 52 

Dutch Apple Cake 52 

Asparagus 36 

Buttered , 36 

In Shells 36 

B 

Baking Powder 

Classes of 42 

Recipe 42 

Beans 

Baked Bean Soup 26 

String 36 

Baked Lima 26 

Beef 

Cuts of Beef 30 

How to judge good 30 

Stew 31 

Roast 32 

Loaf 32 

Creamed Dried 33 

Tea 65 

Beverages 

Uses 13 

General Rules 13 

Boiled Coffee 13 

Tea 13 

Russian Tea 13 

Iced Tea 13 

Cocoa 13 

Fruit 14 

Lemonade 14 

Pineapple Lemonade 14 

Biscuits 

Baking Powder 47 

Pin Wheel 47 

Bread (Yeast) 48 

Baking of 49 

Kneading 49 

Helpful Hints 49 



Milk and Water 49 

Parker House Rolls 50 

Graham 50 

German Coffee 50 

Bread (Quick) 50 

Baked Brown 50 

Boston Brown 51 

Graham 51 

Nut 51 

Whole Wheat 50 

Breakfast 

Plans for 10 

Menus 11 

Broiling 31 

Over coal fire 31 

Under gas flame 31 

Pan 31 

Time Table for 31 

Pan-broiled Chops 31 

Butter 24 

Making of 24 

Parsley 22 



Cabbage 36 

Boiled 36 

Scalloped 36 

Rules for cooking 19 

Cake, Butter 45 

Classes of 45 

General Rules 45 

Preparing Pans for 45 

One Egg 45 

Spice 45 

Cocoa 46 

Apple Sauce 46 

Cakes (Sponge) 46 

Smaller Sponge 47 

Cakes, Griddle 43 

Bread .*... 43 

Corn Meal 43 

Rice 43 

Sour Milk 43 

Sweet Milk 43 

Candy 15 

As a food 15 

Butter Taffy 15 

Chocolate Fudge! 15 

Cocoanut Cream 16 

Ice Cream 15 

Peanut 15 

Pinoche 16 

Sea Foam 16 

Canning 58 

Selection of material 58 



68 



DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Cold Pack method 59 

Open Kettle method 59 

To sterilize jars 59 

Canners, Types of 60 

Steps in Cold Pack process 60 

Making Syrups 61 

Table for Cold Pack can- 
ning 61 

Peaches 59 

Pears 59 

Tomatoes 59 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 59 

Carbohydrates 14 

Sugar 14 

Starch 9 

Vegetables containing 9 

Cereals containing 9 

Fruits containing 9 

Carbon-Dioxide 42 

Carrots 

Creamed 20 

Casein 24 

Cauliflower 

With Cream Sauce 36 

Cereals 16 

Kinds of 16 

Principles of cooking 16 

Rules for cooking 16 

Cream of Wheat 16 

Cornmeal Mush 17 

Boiled Rice 17 

Steamed Rice 17 

Macaroni and Cheese 17 

Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce 17 

Cheese 26 

Manufacture of 26 

General rules 27 

To grate 27 

Cottage Cheese 27 

Cheese Fondue 27 

Pudding v 27 

Wafers 27 

Welsh Rarebit 27 

Chops 

To broil 31 

Pan broiled 31 

Breaded , 31 

Cleaning 

Personal cleanliness 7 

Sink 8 

Floor 8 

Stove 8 

Garbage can 8 

Cocoa 13 

Codfish 

Creamed 33 

Balls 33 

Coffee 

General rules for making.. 13 



Boiled 13 

Cookies 

Oatmeal 48 

Peanut 48 

Imperial 47 

Hermits 48 

Corn 

Growth of 41 

Bread 44 

Fritters 21 

Muffins 44 

Griddle Cakes 43 

Mush 17 

Corn Starch 

Mould 51 

Crabapple Jelly • 62 

Cream of Tartar 42 

Croquettes 

Potato 23 

Croutons 26 

Custards 

Soft 54 

Baked 54 

Caramel 55 

Currants 

To clean 53 

D 

Dates 14 

Desserts 51 

Puddings 51 

Sauces 53 

Frozen 57 

Gelatine 56 

Milk and Egg Mixtures... 54 

Pastry 55 

Dinner 

Typical — Plans 10 

Suggested Menus for 11 

Dish Washing 7 

Doughnuts 24 

Doughs 47 

Dried Fruits 

Figs 14 

Dates 14 

Prunes 14 

Peaches 14 

Dumplings 

Boiled 31 

E 

Eating 

Good Manners in 12 

EGgs 28 

To beat 28 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 



69 



Composition of 28 

Freshness of 28 

How to Preserve 28 

To separate 28 

Eggnog 64 

Egg Toast 29 

Egg Vermicelli 29 

Hard cooked 29 

Plain Omelet 29 

Puffy Omelet 29 

Poached 28 

Scrambled 28 

Scalloped 29 

Soft cooked 28 

Sandwiches 63 

F 

Fats 22 

Sources of 22 

Uses 22 

To clarify 23 

To try out 23 

Precautions in the use of. . 23 

Fish 33 

Classification of 33 

How to judge 33 

Baked Fish 34 

Codfish Balls 33 

Creamed Codfish 33 

Oyster Stew 34 

Salmon Loaf 33 

Scalloped Salmon 34 

Scalloped Oysters 34 

Flour 40 

How made 40 

Wheat Flour 41 

Classification Wheat Flour 41 

Mixtures 41 

Flour Mixtures 40 

Classified 41 

Batters 42 

Doughs 47 

Food 

Uses in body 9 

Classification 9 

Fruits 35 

Beverages 14 

Canning. from 58 to 61 

Composition 14 

Cooking of 14, 58 

Apple Sauces 35 

Baked Apples 35 

Baked Bananas 14 

Rhubarb Sauce 35 

Stewed Prunes 14 

Scalloped Apples 35 

Salad 40 

Frostings 46 

Chocolate 46 



White Mountain Cream... 46 

Freezings 57 

General rules 57 

Ice Cream 53 

Junket Ice Cream 58 

Lemon Ice 58 

Lemon Milk Sherbet .... . . 57 

Strawberry Ice 53 

G 

Garbage 

Care of can g 

Gas Range 

Care of 8 

Gelatine 56 

Desserts 5 6 

Ginger Bread 

Hot Water 44 

Sour Milk 44 

Gluten 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 20 

Graham 

Bread 51 

Muffins 44 

Pudding 50 

Grapes 

Jelly 62 

Jam 6 o 

Gruels 

Cracker 65 

Oatmeal 65 

H 

Hamburg Steak 39 

Ham Sandwiches 63 

Hash 22 

Hermits 43 

I 
Ice 

Cream 53 

Lemon 53 

Strawberry 53 

Tea 13 

Imperial Cookies 47 

Invalid Cooking 64 

J 

Jam 

Grape 62 

Jars 

Sterilizing of 59 

Jelly V. 61 

Method of making 61 



70 



DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Crabapple 62 

Cranberry 62 

Grape 62 

Junket 

Rennet Custard 25 

K 

Kerosene 8 

Kneading 49 

L 

Lamb 

How to tell good 30 

Leavens 41 

Definition of 41 

Classification 42 

Experiments 42 

Lemon 

Ade 14 

Ice 58 

Jelly 57 

Pie 56 

Sauce 53 

Lettuce 

Salad 37 

Sandwiches 63 

Luncheon 

Plans 10 

Suggested Menus for 11 

M 

Macaroni 

And Cheese 17 

Marmalade 

Amber 62 

Mayonnaise 39 

Meals 9 

Planning of 9 

Points to consider 10 

Typical— Plans for 10 

Suggested Menus 1 1 

Serving of 11 

Meats 

Care of 30 

Cuts of Beef 30 

Kinds 30 

. How to judge : . . . . 30 

Beef or Mutton Stew 31 

Breaded Chops 31 

Creamed Dried Beef 33 

Pan-Broiled Chops 31 

Hamburg Steak 32 

Roast Beef 32 

Veal or Beef Loaf 32 

Meat 

Uses of left over 32 



Cottage Pie 32 

Hash 32 

Minced Meat on Toast.. 32 

Measurements 8 

How to Measure 8 

Table of 9 

Meringue 56 

Milk 24 

I Care of 25 

Composition 24 

Food for Children 24 

How Milk should look.... 24 

Vitamines in 24 

Cream Toast 25 

Cream Potato Soup 25 

Cream Pea Soup 25 

Rennet Custard 25 

Mineral Matter 

Foods rich in 9 

Use in body 9 

Muffins 44 

Cornmeal 44 

Graham 44 

One Egg 44 

Mutton 

How to judge 30 

Stew 31 

N 

Napkins 

Position on Table 11 

O 

Oatmeal 

Cookies 48 

How to cook 16 

Omelette 

Plain 29 

Puffy 29 

Onions 

Boiled 36 

Creamed 36 

Oranges 

Albuminized 64 

Vitamines in 9 

Oven Tests 42 

P 

Pa str v 55 

General rules 55 

Paste for pies 55 

Peas 

Creamed 21 

Cream Soup 25 

Split Pea 26 

Peaches 

Canned 59 

Sweet Pickled 59 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE RECIPES 



71 



Pears 

Canned 59 

Pie 

Apple 56 

Lemon 56 

Pumpkin 56 

Popovers 42 

Pork 

How to Judge 30 

Potatoes 

Food value 9, 18 

Augratin 20 

Baked 19 

Boiled 19 

Browned 20 

Creamed 20 

Croquettes 23 

French Fried 23 

Fried 23 

Glazed Sweet 20 

Half Shell 19 

Lyonnaise 20 

Mashed 19 

Mashed Potato Cake 19 

Raw Scalloped 20 

Salad 40 

Preserves 

Making of 58 

Protein 

Foods rich in 24 

Prunes 

Foods in 14 

Stewed 14 

Jellied 57 

Puddings 

Apple Snow 52 

Apple Tapioca 52 

Bread 52 

Cornstarch Mould 51 

Cottage 52 

Dutch Apple Cake 52 

Graham 52 

Rice 51 

Suet 53 

Sauces 53 

Q 

Quick Breads 50. 51 

R 

Raisins 14 

Prepare for puddings 53 

Rennet 

Custard 25 

Rice 

Food in 16 



Boiled 17 

With Cheese 17 

Steamed 17 

With Tomatoes 18 

Pudding 51 



Salads 37 

Food value 37 

Materials used for 37 

Rules for making 38 

Oils for 38 

Dressings 38 

Boiled 38 

Cream 39 

French 38 

Fruit .. 39 

Mayonnaise 39 

Thousand Island 39 

Cabbage 39 

Chicken or Veal 40 

Fruit 40 

Perfection 40 

Pineapple 39 

Potato 40 

Russian 40 

Salmon 40 

Waldorf 39 

Salmon 

Loaf 33 

Scalloped 34 

Salad 40 

Sandwiches 62 

Rules for making 62 

Sauces 21 

Pudding 53 

Tomato 21 

Serving 

At home 7 

Laying the table 11 

General Directions for 12 

Short Cake 

Strawberry 47 

Sink 

Care of 8 

Soups 

Cream Pea .. 25 

Cream Potato 25 

Cream Tomato 26 

Baked Bean 26 

Split Pea 26 

Spinach 37 

Starch 

Foods containing 14 

Sugar 14 

Foods rich in 14 



72 



DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Suet 

To prepare for puddings. 
Sweeping 

Care of floor 



53 



Table Manners 12 

Setting of 11 

Tea 13 

Rules for making 13 

Ice Tea 13 

Russian Tea 13 

Tea 13 

Toast 

Milk 25, 64 

Tomatoes 

Canned 59 

Cream Soup 2fi 

Sauce 21 

Scalloped 37 

Stewed 36 

Turnips 

Mashed 20 

Creamed Peas in Cups 21 



Vegetables 18 

Foods found in 18 

How to buy 18 

Classification 18 

Rules for cooking 19 

Asparagus 36 

Potatoes 19, 20 

Cabbage 36 

Carrots 20 

Cauliflower 36 

Corn 41 

Corn Fritters 21 

Onions 35, 36 

Peas 21 

Spinach 37 

Succotash 21 

Tomatoes 36, 37 

Turnips 20, 21 

Vitamines 

Where found 9 



W 

Water 

Uses in body 9 

White Sauce 21 



V 

Veal 


,...'.. 30 

32 


Y 

Yeast 

What it is 


48 


Loaf 


How to buy 


49 

49 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 486 001 9 



