rx 

6^6 




The Meat 
rhat Comes from Milk 

Br C, Houston Goudiss 





Class 
Book. 



^r-V ^ V o 



Gopyrigjitl!^?, 



COP^ICHT DEPOSm 



The Meat that Comes 
from Milk 



The Health and Strength Value 

of Cheese as a Main Dish 

in the Daily Diet 

By C. HOUSTON GOUDISS 

Food Advisor of The People's Home Journal; Author of 

"Foods that Will Win the War" and "Making 

the Most of Our Meat Supply"; Food 

Economist of national 

reputation 



.^ 



'///|r 



PRIVATELY PRINTED BY 

THE PEOPLE'S HOME JOURNAL 

NEW YORK 



■^ 



G ^ 



COPYRIGHT 1921 

F. M. LUPTON, PUBLISHER 

NEW YORK 



0)GI.A654925 



*y 






The Meat that Comes from Milk 



I 



THE HEALTH AND STRENGTH VALUE 
OF CHEESE AS A MAIN DISH IN THE 
DAILY DIET 



F YOU knew of a butcher-shop where only the 
best grade of meat was sold, and where all bone, 
gristle and surplus fat — all waste — were removed 
from the meat before it was weighed out to you, 
and where you paid for this wasteless food material 
no more than you now pay for bone, gristle, meat 
and surplus fat combined — well, you would know 
the millenium had arrived ! 

If the millenium depended only on such a state 
of affairs, it arrived at least a thousand years before 
Christ, and was ushered in by whoever it was that 
first made cheese. 

The name of that great benefactor of the race is 
not known. But the meaning of his gift to mankind 
has grown clearer through the ages, and to-day it 
is accepted by most peoples as one of the foremost 
of sustaining food materials. 

A food which more than fulfills the fancy of the 
first paragraph of this article, since it not only is 
a wasteless "meat," but far richer in actual fuel 
value than the edible part of the best cuts of beef. 



THE MEAT TEAT COMES FROM MILK 

We measure food-fuel values in "calories" — heat 
units. The pound of whole milk cheese you bring 
home from the grocer's represents 1950 calories, 
while the edible portion of the best sirloin steak you 
buy at the butcher's represents only 1270 calories. 
In order to get a pound of that edible portion you 
must buy more than weight, for there is a consider- 
able percentage of waste even in round steak. Yet 
the cheese is virtually wasteless. 
A Match for Meat in Values 

"But there is no waste at all to a loaf of baker's 
bread," you say, "yet it can't take the place of 
meat." 

Just here we come to the most remarkable fact 
connected with cheese. And I am pleased to use 
quotation marks in stating it, because of the author- 
ity back of the assertion. 

"So far as its composition is concerned, cheese is 
entitled to be considered as directly comparable 
with meat." 

This is the official verdict of the United States 
Government. And while we are making use of 
Uncle Sam's expert knowledge on this subject, it is 
well to hear what he has to say about the digestibil- 
ity of cheese. 

"Of course, it takes a strong stomach to deal with 
cheese," you say — because wrong use of this food 
has supplied some ground for this wrong notion, 
which still prevails among a good many persons. 
Being a food of highly concentrated value, to eat 
even a small piece of cheese at the close of a heavy 

4 



THE MEAT THAT COMES FROM MILK 

dinner, or to make it the piece de resistance of a mid- 
night supper, naturally taxes the already busy de- 
partment of the interior. The same amount of 
bacon, eaten in the same way at the same time, 
would have done the same thing. 

As Digestible as All Staple Foods 

To settle this matter of the digestibility of cheese, 

the United States Department of Agriculture 

carried on a series of nutritional experiments a few 

years ago, and the conclusion reached was thus set 

forth in an official bulletin : 

"When eaten raw or carefully cooked, cheese is as thoroughly 
digested as other staple foods, and is not likely to produce 
physiological disturbance. The fact that cheese, like meat, 
contains neither starch nor cellulose, suggests that, like meat, 
it should be combined with bread, potatoes and other starchy 
foods, with vegetables and with sweets. The high percentage 
of fat in cheese suggests the use of correspondingly small 
amounts of fat in the accompanying dishes, while the soft 
texture of cheese dishes, as compared with meat, makes it 
reasonable to serve the harder and crustier breads with thena. 
In order that the diet may remain well balanced, cheese, if 
used in quantity, should replace foods of similar composition 
rather than supplement them. " 

To this indisputable evidence let me add that 
digestion can also be promoted by grating it so as to 
give the gastric juices a chance to act upon the fat 
which surrounds the particles of casein like an en- 
velope, thus preventing the gastric juices from com- 
ing readily in contact with the fat. One difficulty 
seems to be that cheese is frequently not chewed 
enough and the digestive organs have to cope with 
lumps of the material. Another factor in its digesti- 
bility is the temperature at which it is cooked. Like 



THE MEAT THAT COMES FROM MILK 

all proteid foods it is toughened and hardened by 
a high temperature. We all know the stringy indi- 
gestible Welsh rarebit one gets from overcooking, 
and for the same reason, in combining cheese with 
macaroni, rice or honey, it is well not to allow the 
cheese to be at the bottom of the dish but to protect 
it from the high temperature, by putting it between 
layers of starchy material. Its digestion can also be 
promoted by the addition of a small amount of pot- 
ash (old fashioned saleratus) or of baking soda, 
which makes the cheese soluble and therefore more 
digestible. Sometimes after cheese has become 
tough from the action of too high a temperature, 
it may be again made soft by these substances. 
When properly used and eaten there is no evidence 
that cheese is not as digestible as any other highly 
concentrated food. 
The Virtues of Milk in Solid Form 

The highest praise that can be given any food is 
to say it is like milk, for milk is the one complete 
nutrient. When it comes to cheese, we can go to the 
limit of such praise, for it is milk — all milk and noth- 
ing else ! It therefore stands almost at the head of 
our list of foods. 

It is milk with the 87 per cent of water found in 
whole milk reduced to about one-third that amount 
and with the invaluable food elements of the milk 
remaining in concentrated form. 

Cheese is one-third casein — the most important 
protein of milk — and where made from whole milk, 
it contains all the fat of the white fluid without 

6 



THE MEAT THAT COMES FROM MILK 

which the human race could not exist. Cheese also 
is rich in the mineral salts of milk — lime and phos- 
phorus — which are necessary to the proper mainte- 
nance of the body and which are most likely to be 
lacking in the diet of the average person. 

It is the protein of meat that makes this particu- 
lar form of food highly valuable to man — the pro- 
tein and the flavor. But science has proved that the 
protein of milk is the best of all forms of this builder 
and repairer of body tissue, and in cheese we have 
this protein in compressed form — much in little. 
As to flavor — cheese speaks for itself. 
And Cheese Has Vitamines! 

As if Nature were bent on providing one solid food 
as perfect as milk is in its way, cheese has the added 
and highly valuable advantage of being a vitamine- 
bearing food. 

Milk is known to be richer than any other food- 
stuff in these protective elements which are so ne- 
cessary to physical growth and welfare, and where 
cheese is made of whole milk, it passes along to the 
ultimate consumer the fat-soluble vitamines of 
whole milk. The housewife who wants to know can 
always find out whether it is a skim milk or a whole 
milk cheese she is buying, for the law requires that 
the difference be marked on the label. But if she 
knows it is a cheese made in Wisconsin, which sup- 
plies half of the country's output, that is enough — 
for the law of that state prohibits the manufacture 
of any but whole-milk cheese. The New York brand 
on full cream or cheddar cheese is also a guarantee 



THE MEAT THAT COMES FROM MILK 

that it is made of whole milk. Cheddar cheese can 

also be made from skim milk, but the label tells the 

story to the buyer who is interested in the quality 

purchased. 

How and Where It Is Made 

There are dozens of different kinds of cheese — 
different in shape, color, odor and texture — but all 
of the various members of this large food family 
may be traced to the same beginning — milk. Some 
few owe their existence to goat's milk, but the ma- 
jority claim direct descent from the cow. 

Cheese is made by curdling whole or skimmed 
milk with rennet, separating the liquid whey from 
the semi-solid curd, and pressing the remaining 
solid. Then, with or without added flavoring of salt, 
sage or bread crumbs, the pressed shapes are "cured" 
in cellars, storehouses or caves, under varying de- 
grees of temperature and for varying lengths of 
time. This, in brief, is the process followed in the 
manufacture of every kind of cheese. 

The making of cheese requires the utmost care 
in every step from start to finish. The digestibility 
of cheese depends largely upon the perfection of its 
ripening and this in turn upon the materials, tem- 
perature, cleanliness, precision or strength of the 
ferment used and the skill with which the work is 
carried on. Cheese, like butter fat, readily absorbs 
any foreign odor or flavor, either of which may les- 
sen its value. The degree of moisture and of temper- 
ature in which the cheeses are permitted to ripen 
has much to do with their characteristic flavor and 

8 



THE MEAT TEAT COMES FROM MILK 

texture. The flavor also depends on the varieties of 
bacteria and molds used during the ripening pro- 
cess, each species producing special changes which 
give characteristic flavors. The ripening process 
continues for weeks and in some cases for months, 
the flavor slowly growing stronger and the cheese 
more palatable as time progresses. 

Cheese that is made from whole milk has, of 
course, a higher food-fuel value than that made 
from skimmed milk, yet one kind of skim-milk 
cheese — and one that can be easily made in any 
home — is so valuable as a food and so good that 
I propose to give it the place of honor in discussing 
the most popular varieties. 
The Charm and Worth of Cottage Cheese 

Even the name given to this form of cheese is 
attractive. And when one stops to think that it is 
quickly and easily made from skimmed milk which 
for many years has been largely wasted, its impor- 
tance is magnified. 

It is made by curdling the skimmed milk with 
a rennet tablet, then draining the whey from the 
curd through a piece of clean cheese-cloth and press- 
ing or squeezing out all the moisture that may re- 
main. The snowy mass which results may be salted 
to taste or enriched with a little cream or flavored 
and beautifully colored with ground pimentoes — 
a valuable meat substitute. 

Here is a food amazingly rich in body-building 
materials, tempting to both the eye and the palate, 
and capable of being served in many ways. And one 

9 



THE MEAT THAT COMES FROM MILK 

which for economy is without parallel in the whole 
list of things we eat. If cottage cheese were made more 
carefully it would probably be more generally liked. 
Instead of the lumpy, flavorless stuff so often offered 
for sale it should be smooth and creamy in tex- 
ture and mellow in flavor. To make such cheese the 
milk must be pure and clean, the temperature for 
souring must be carefully watched to prevent the 
formation of curd and the moisture must be care- 
fully pressed out. Every home has occasionally left 
over milk, and every farm has quantities that could 
be used for this cheap and nutritious food if the art 
of making it were better understood. 
"57" Kinds and How to Select Them 

Of the making of cheeses, like the making of 
books, there would seem to be no end. There are 
two distinct classes, hard and soft, and under these 
come any number of variations. 

The most popular soft cheeses are cottage, neuf- 
chatel, camembert, brie and English cream cheese. 
They are best when freshest and should be con- 
sumed soon after manufacture. The soft cheeses are 
believed to be more digestible than the hard, but 
this is due to the fact that few people masticate 
cheese thoroughly. 

The hard cheeses most in favor are cheddar — 
so called from the fact that it was first made in 
Cheddar, England, though it is now made exten- 
sively in America, also — stilton, roquefort, gorgon- 
zola, Swiss, limburger, pineapple and edam. Some 
of these, as brie and limburger, are notably odor- 

10 



THE MEAT THAT COMES FROM MILK 

iferous, and for this reason are not popular. Others, 
like gorgonzola and roquefort, owe their pungent 
flavor and odor to certain species of mold. While 
all these varieties are of foreign origin they are all now 
being well made in America and it is no longer 
necessary to depend upon imports for good cheeses. 
Far the most popular in this country is the cheddar 
type, most of which is produced in Wisconsin and 
New York state, though Pennsylvania, Michigan 
and Ohio also rank high in cheese manufacture. 

Flavor and texture are the guides in cheese buy- 
ing. A crumbly cheese feels mealy in the mouth and 
has an acid flavor that bites the tongue. It is cheese 
that has not been properly made and is not safe 
to use. A cheese full of holes has a flavor that is gen- 
erally undesirable. A new cheese has a mild flavor 
and is tough and leathery in texture ; it is too bland 
for cooking and is liable to become stringy; old 
cheese has a strong flavor and cooks to better 
advantage. 

The color of cheese has little to do with its quality 
— a deep yellow is generally produced by the addi- 
tion of coloring matter and does not necessarily 
indicate a rich cheese. Specks of mold on the out- 
side of a cheese indicate poor pressing. Such a cheese 
will not keep so long as one that has been pressed 
and is smooth on the surface. 
Amazingly High Food Values 

Even cottage cheese, made from skimmed milk, 
has a higher food-fuel value per pound than the 
edible portion of sirloin steak. And when it comes 

11 



THE MEAT THAT COMES FROM MILK 

to Swiss, the nutritive worth of the beef is almost 
doubled. Full cream cheddar ranks second in this 
respect, and is followed by pineapple, roquefort, 
limburger and neuf chatel. 

It is this high food value that has been respon- 
sible for the mistaken notion regarding the health- 
fulness of cheese. Its flavor is so enticing that people 
have been led to over-eat of its concentrated food 
elements, or, as before stated, have made a condi- 
ment of a very rich food, and thus given the stomach 
too much of a burden. 

Those who use cheese as it should be used, how- 
ever — as a meat alternative, and accompany it with 
a plentitude of green vegetables and fruits, find 
it not only easy to digest, but remarkably sustain- 
ing. 

In the fact that it is one of the most appetizing of 
foods dwells one of its chief virtues — ^for that which 
tempts the palate has a direct and most favorable 
action on the outflow of digestive juices both in the 
mouth and the stomach. Exhaustive experiments 
have shown that on the average 90 per cent of its 
proteins and 95 per cent of its fats are digested and 
are easily assimilated by the blood. 

The food value of cheese is more generally appre- 
ciated in Europe and Asia than in the United States, 
our per capita consumption of 3 3^^ to 4 pounds a 
year being much less than inEurope.In GreatBritain 
it is a regular article of diet in the workingman's 
lunch, the average annual consumption before the 
war being 336,000,000 pounds. Throughout conti- 

12 



THE MEAT THAT COMES FROM MILK 

nental Europe the production and exporting of 
cheese is carefully supervised, it being classed as 
more of a necessity than butter. 
Not a Relish but a Rich Food 

Of course, if you continue to give cheese a bad 
name by eating it as a * 'relish" you will continue 
to find it somewhat burdensome to the stomach. 
Pursue the proper course, however, and give it 
a rightful place in the diet as a *'meat" or main 
dish, and you will be surprised at the ease with 
which it is handled by the stomach. 

For such uses, no other foodstuff is more con- 
venient or adaptable to variations in form and flavor. 
This is especially true of the so-called American 
cheese when used in combination with other food 
materials. With macaroni, rice or hominy for in- 
stance, cheese forms an almost complete heating 
and energizing food — the starch of the macaroni 
supplying that deficiency in the cheese. Indeed, 
a dish of macaroni and cheese, with a liberal portion 
of salad made from lettuce or some other green and 
a fruit dessert constitutes a meal which can hardly 
be excelled for all-around food virtues. 

Cheese always may be eaten raw, and for this 
reason it furnishes one of the most useful of ready- 
to-serve foods. It always can be had, even at the 
cross-roads general store, and now that it is put up 
in air-tight cans one can make sure of getting it 
fresh, and in such form as to be easily kept for al- 
most any length of time in any climate. 

It can be cooked in so many different combi- 

13 



THE MEAT THAT COMES FROM MILK 

nations — with eggs, starchy foods, and vegetables 
— that it is possible for the housewife to serve 
a main dish of cheese once or twice weekly for 
a whole year without repeating. 

Yet we Americans, with an average annual per 
capita consumption of only a little more than three 
pounds of cheese, are not wise enough to make 
of this foodstuff anything like the use we should. 

Why We Should Eat More Cheese 

In the first place, we are not wise enough to 
make full use of a food which, despite its incompar- 
able value as a provider of heat and energy and 
material for body building, is highly economical. 
This element of cost, of course, depends on the 
variety chosen. American cheese contains more 
nutriment than parmesan, and at half the price. 
Stilton is about the same in food value but twice 
as expensive. Roquefort, edam, parmesan, gruyere 
or gorgonzola are the so-called fancy cheeses and 
we pay a high price for their flavor. Cheese eaten 
for flavor is an expensive food. These rich, well- 
ripened cheeses are gently stimulating to the digest- 
ive membranes, like beef tea, and for this reason 
they are rightly used as a condiment. But when we 
speak of cheese as food, full cream American ched- 
dar for cooking, Swiss and neufchatel, cream and 
cottage for salads and sandwiches are the kinds to 
be chosen and used freely. 

On the average, one pound of cheese is equal in 
food value to three pounds of meat, as bought. And 
when it comes to convenience, keeping qualities 

14 



THE MEAT TEAT COMES FROM MILK 

and absence of waste, there is no comparison between 
the two. 

Common sense must lead us to a change. Cheese 
challenges us to larger consideration of its place 
in the daily diet. For the sake of our health, our 
pockets and the strength and welfare of posterity, 
we must be more loyal to this second-best gift from 
the cow. Wisconsin with its 2,000,000 dairy cattle 
and its 2,000 cheese factories, as well as the other 
American states that are making good cheeses of all 
kinds, should be encouraged to lead the world in the 
production of this wholesome, economical protein 
food. 



15 



RECIPES 

Cheese Balls to Serve with Soup 

Chop the white of one hard boiled egg very fine and rub the yolk through 
a fine strainer. Mix the two together with a few grains of cayenne, three table- 
spoonfuls of grated American cheese, one teaspoonful of milk or cream and 
the yolk of one raw egg. Work the mixture together until it is well blended, 
then shape in small balls not more than one-fourth inch in diameter. Drop 
into boiling consomme or broth and cook gently for five minutes. 

Cottage or Pot Cheese 

Put one quart of thick, sour milk in a deep bowl. Pour in one quart of boil- 
ing water and let stand five minutes. Then pour into a cheesecloth bag and let 
drain until all the whey has dripped out. This will take several hours. Do not 
squeeze the cheese or the curd will be tough and dry. When the whey has 
dripped through, turn the cheese out and season with melted butter, salt, 
paprika and a few grains of sugar. 

Baked Bread and Cheese 

Butter four slices of bread and cut each slice into four triangles or squares. 
Place a layer of these pieces, buttered side down, in a shallow baking dish. 
Mix one cupful of cottage or pot cheese with one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
a few grains of cayenne pepper, one-fourth teaspoonful of baking soda, one- 
half teaspoonful of onion juice and one-fourth cupful of milk. Spread a thick 
layer of the cheese over the bread. Cover the cheese with the rest of the bread, 
buttered side up. Beat two eggs and mix with one and three-fourths cupfuls 
of milk. Pour over the bread and bake in a slow oven (about 300 degrees) for 
forty minutes or until firm. Serve hot. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
or pimento or two tablespoonf uls of chili sauce or catsup may be mixed with 
the cheese to give variety of flavor. 

Molded Cheese Salad 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of gelatine in one-fourth cupful of cold water for 
ten minutes, then dissolve by standing over hot water. Mix two cupfuls of 
cottage cheese with one-half cupful of finely chopped pimento, green pepper 
or stu£Fed olives, one-fourth teaspoonful of paprika, two teaspoonf uls of salt, 
a few grains of cayenne, two teaspoonfuls of sugar and one cupful of milk. 
When well blended, stir in the dissolved gelatine and pack into a cold, wet 
mold. When firm, turn out, cut in slices and serve on lettuce with mayonnaise 
or French dressing. Use strips of pimento, slices of olives or halves of walnuts 
for garnishing. 

Cheese Toast with Bacon 

Melt four tablespoonfuls of butter, add four tablespoonfuls of flour and 
when well blended stir in two cupfuls of milk. Cook until thick and smooth, 
then add one-half to one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful each of pap- 

16 



THE MEAT THAT COMES FROM MILK 

rika and Worcestershire sauce and one cupful of grated American cheese. 
Cook for two minutes longer, or until the cheese is melted. Pour over six 
large slices of toast and arrange two to four slices of broiled or fried bacon 
across the top of each portion. Serve very hot. 

Cheese Sticks 

Mix and sift one and one-half cupfuls of pastry flour and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt. Rub in one-half cupful of shortening, using a fork or two 
knives. Then add just enough ice water to make a sti£F dough. Turn out on 
a floured board and roll to one-fourth inch thickness. Sprinkle with one-third 
cupful of grated, stale cheese and a little cayenne pepper. Roll the dough up 
like a jelly roll and then flatten out to one-fourth inch thickness. Spread with 
one-third cupful of grated cheese, fold and roll as before. Chill thoroughly, 
roll to one-eighth inch thickness and cut in strips about one-eighth inch wide 
and four or five inches long. Place on a greased baking pan and bake in a hot 
oven (400 degrees) about ten minutes or until a golden brown in color. 

Roquefort Cheese Salad Dressing 

Take two ounces or one-fourth cupful of Roquefort cheese, six tablespoonf uls 
of salad oil, three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of paprika, and a few grains of cayenne. 

Mash the cheese with a fork until it is smooth and creamy. Make a French 
dressing of the oil, vinegar and seasonings and add it gradually to the cheese. 
Serve on hearts of lettuce or romaine. 

Cheese and Rice Croquettes 

Mix one cupful of boiled rice with one cupful of thick white sauce made 
from four tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour and one cupful of milk. Add 
one cupful of grated, stale cheese, one-fourth teaspoonful of paprika and one 
teaspoonful of salt. A few grains of cayenne or one-half teaspoonful of grated 
onion my be added if desired. Mix thoroughly and spread out on a shallow 
plate to cool. When cold, shape as desired, roll in flour, then in beaten egg and 
fine bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat heated to 390 degrees or until it browns 
a piece of bread in forty seconds. Drain and serve with tomato, cheese or 
white sauce. 

The egg used for dipping may be either white or yolk alone or the whole 
egg. In either case, dilute it with one tablespoonful of cold water. 

Cheese Squares 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter, add one-fourth cupful of flour and 
when well blended stir in two-thirds cupful of milk. Cook until thick and 
boiling. Remove from the fire and beat in the yolks of two eggs, one and one- 
half cupfuls of grated or finely cut cheese, one teaspoonful of salt and cayenne 
to season. Spread in a shallow pan to cool. When cold and firm, turn out on 
a floured board or plate, cut in small squares, dip in fine crumbs, beaten egg 
and again in crumbs and fry in deep fat heated to 390 degrees. Drain on soft 
paper and serve hot. 

17 



THE MEAT THAT COMES FROM MILK 
Cheese and Hominy Puffs 

Mix and sift two tablespoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Beat one egg yolk with one-third 
cupful of milk, add one cupful of cold, boiled hominy and mix until smooth. 
Add the flour mixture and one cupful of grated, dry cheese. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten egg white and drop from a teaspoon into deep fat heated to 390 degrees 
or until it will brown a piece of bread in forty seconds. Fry to a golden brown, 
drain and serve with tomato sauce and grated cheese. 

Toasted Bacon and Cheese Sandwiches 

Toast bread cut one-fourth of an inch thick until it is brown on one side. 
Turn over and cover the untoasted side with very thin slices of American or 
Swiss cheese. Sprinkle the cheese with paprika and a little cayenne pepper 
and cover with two or three thin strips of bacon. Toast until the bacon is 
browned and the cheese melted. Cover with a second slice of toast and serve 
at once with a garnish of watercress. 

Red Rarebit 

Mince one green pepper, one teaspoonful onion, and two tablespoonfuls 
celery. Cook in three tablespoonfuls of melted butter or margarine for five 
minutes or until just beginning to turn yellow. Stir in four tablespoonfuls of 
flour and when well blended, add two cupfuls of tomato juice or one can 
tomato soup diluted with water to make two cupfuls. Cook until boiling, 
strain, add one-half teaspoonful each salt and baking soda and two cupfuls 
cheese cut in fine pieces. Cook until the cheese melts, stirring constantly. 
Then stir in one well beaten egg and serve at once on toast or crackers. 

Polenta with Cheese 

Scald two cupfuls of milk and mix with two cupfuls of boiling water. Heat 
to the boiling point. Mix one cupful of cornmeal with one teaspoonful salt 
and enough cold water to make a smooth paste. Stir into the boiling liquid 
and cook in a double boiler for two hours. Then add one half-pound cheese 
grated or cut fine and pour the mixture into a shallow pan one-half inch thick. 
When cold, cut in squares, dip in beaten egg and then in fine crumbs and fry 
in deep hot fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Macaroni Rarebit 

Boil one half pound macaroni until tender, then drain. Melt two table- 
spoonfuls butter or margarine, add one-half pound grated cheese and stir over 
hot water until the cheese is melted. Beat two eggs, add one cupful milk and 
stir into the cheese mixture with one teaspoonful salt and one-half teaspoonful 
Worcestershire sauce. Cook, stirring constantly, until the mixture thickens. 
Pour the sauce over the macaroni and serve at once. Garnish with pimentoes, 
parsley or stuffed olives. 



18 



