
-to 

Household Science 
Department 
Univ. of Toronto 



THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 
THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



COMPLETE IN TWELVE NUMBERS 
VOL. XIII, 1921 



BALTIMORE, MD. 

1921 




/ 
J7 



110157',-' 



Vol. Xin, No. 1 January, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemalcing, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Auce P. Norton, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Lancworthv Amy Daniels Ruth Wheeler Violet Rylev 

Ex-Officio Members — Mary E. Sweeny, President American Home Economics Association 
Nola Treat, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton, Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, Chairman Extension Education Section 
LiLLLAN Peek, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

After-The-War Economic Food Problems . . .' Alonzo E. Taylor 1 

CooPERATn'E Service Between the Textile Laboratory and the Mercantile World 

Grace G. Denny 13 
The Food of the Immigrant in Relation to Health 

Michael M. Davis, Jr., and Bertha M. Wood 19 

Gastric Respon"se to Foods Minna C. Denton 26 

Home Economics Teaching in Rural Belgium 31 

For the Homemaker 

The Food Economy Kitchen and its Value nsr the Community . Mrs. Horatio Dresser 33 

The Roland Park Community Kitchen Alice E. Baker 35 

A Suggestion on Cooperative Meat Marketing John H. Kelly, Jr. 39 

Furs 40 

Editorial 42 

Bibliography of Home Economics .44 

News from the Field 45 



Thx Jourmal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is madejby check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on whkh 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Th« Jouskal o» Home Economics is on sale at John Wanajnaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



^air.x '.iiTKi mmU iU> li,m^ijl aoitU^fTi 33.r.?^q ^j^tjjvba 3.:ajhv» cJ 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 




THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 

Your biscuits, rolls, gems and other dainty 
bread-stufFs can be no better tban the bak- 
ing powder with which they are made. 
Good baking powder is the leavening agent 
that makes them light and digestible. It is 
the keystone in the making of appetizing, 
wholesome cake, biscuits, mumns, etc. 

Of course, you want only the best of bak- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when vou use 



ROYAL 

Baking Powder 



Made from 

Cream of Tartar 

derived from 

Grapes 




In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Ekx>nomics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIII JANUARY, 1921 No. 1 

AFTER-THE-WAR ECONOMIC FOOD PROBLEMS^ 

ALONZO E. TAYLOR 

University of Pennsylvania 

Those who imagined that after the war was over we should be per- 
mitted to resume the existence of five years ago precisely as we left it^ 
to take up again the problems and the pleasures as we knew them then, 
have certainly by this time come to realize that all such expectations are 
doomed to failure. The world will not again be what it was six years ago 
— certainly not within our period of activity. There has been such an 
enormous destruction of material values and human energies throughout 
the world that it is not possible to hope, except in the event of the 
discovery of very unusual new resources, for the world to be restored in 
an appreciable space of time to the position occupied before the great 
war. 

During the war it was the function of the trained women of our 
country to teach all women conservation, the elimination of waste and 
substitution. Today the world faces a deflation in prices. Deflation 
of prices means primarily, for the moment at least, a consumer's market. 
The degree to which this may extend and the results that may be ex- 
pected to follow from such a condition depend largely upon the future 
attitude of the consuming classes themselves. It is clear, from the 
history of previous periods of price inflation, that the maintenance of 
reduced prices depends indirectly, to a large extent, upon the consuming 
public, since production must not be undermined. 

^ Presented at the Third Annual Meeting of the American Dietetic Association, New 
York, October, 1920. Published also in the Modern Hospital. 

1 



2 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

A year ago in this country we were all living in a fool's paradise. 
Everyone seemed to have an unlimited bank account. Everyone wanted 
everything that could possibly contribute in any way to what we defined 
as the attributes of well-being. We wanted the broadest and the highest 
standard of living, and this attitude extended through all classes. It 
was clear at that time that we were consuming in excess of a safe esti- 
mate of our resources, and that eventually the price for extravagance 
would have to be paid. The question that concerned the men who were 
considering the problem theoretically was upon whom the penalty 
would first fall and how heavy the punishment would be. 

We have now come to the break. Prices are falling. They must 
fall. We have the psychology as well as the fact of the falling prices. 
The consumer today refuses to buy, not for the opposite reason of his 
willingness to buy a year ago — that he had money then and has no 
money now; that is not the primary motivation at all. A year ago the 
consumer behevcd that the trend of prices was still rising. Today the 
consumer believes that the trend of prices is falling and that he can 
accelerate that trend by refusing to buy. The consumer found to 
his bitterness a year ago that by his buying he hastened the trend of 
prices upwards, and he reasons now that in a similar way by refusing 
to buy he can accelerate the trend of prices downwards. And this is 
correct. 

The only question is: To what extent is it wise to accelerate the curve 
of prices downwards? Now, a panic is little more than an accelerated 
run of price deflation. If prices are to fall, and they must fall, and then 
on the basis of reduced prices consumption is to be maintained, it is 
apparent that the refusal of the consumer to buy cannot go to the point 
of lowering production so profoundly that it will be later unequal to the 
demand. In other words, the ideal method of price deflation is that it 
taper off gradually. If deflation occurs precipitously, it leads to such 
profound disorganization of the processes of production that later when 
the demand comes supply cannot be maintained and prices again rise, 
or in any event exhibit startling instabilities. 

We are gradually coming to learn that unstable prices are worse than 
high prices. If you were to ask a German what the trouble with the 
mark is, he would say that it was fluctuating. If you could fix the mark 
at two cents, every manufacturer in Germany — and everybody else — 
would be glad. When the mark was a cent and a quarter, there were 
large importations of cotton. The mark rose to two and three-quarter 



1921] ECONOMIC FOOD PROBLEMS 3 

cents, nearly three cents. This looked fine to the theorist, who says that 
we measure the recovery of Germany by the recovery of her currency. 
But when the mark rose from one and a quarter to two and a half cents, 
it cut the price of the sale of that cotton to the Germans, and to the 
outside world, in two, and every importer and manufacturer lost money. 
They therefore stopped importing. When the mark reached three 
cents, the imports and exports of Germany stopped. In these fluctu- 
ations, up and down, first the manufacturer, importer, and exporter 
lose, and then the banking world loses. The result is a complete dis- 
organization of the forces of production. What is wanted in prices is 
a stabilized tendency, which shall enable everyone connected with pro- 
duction to forecast in advance the probable costs. 

No man today can expect basal production to recover within a year, 
with the tendency to price deflation carried to such a point that some 
of our raw materials have already, within six months, fallen to a plane 
of lower than pre-war values. I have just come from Kansas where I 
had the privilege of speaking before the Wheat Exposition. There are 
men in the Middle West who farm land that is now worth between 
fifty to one hundred dollars an acre more than it was before the war, 
who are selHng oats for the same price they received seven years ago. 
There are men in the West who are paying fifteen dollars an acre rental, 
and selling forty bushels of oats to the acre for forty cents a bushel; 
in other words, the crop is no more than paying the rental. Cotton, 
wool, and hides are selling below cost of production, wheat also in some 
sections. Now, these precipitous descents in prices, that are apparently 
to the interest of the consumer, are eventually, if they are carried to 
excess, to his detriment. For the man who wants grains next year 
may find that the farmer cannot plant them at that figure. No price 
depreciation must be so sudden and depressing that in the year to come 
it destroys the labor of the present year. 

A true deflation is one that is continuous, equitable and sequential, 
and not sudden, with wide fluctuations and precipitous. Nevertheless, 
the consumer of foods feels the psychology of the falling prices. The 
consumer of foods already has the fact of the falling income. The 
relation between falling price and falling income constitutes for the 
woman in the household the problem of the next twelve months. Is 
the price curve to fall more rapidly than the curve of income; or is the 
curve of price to be a widely fluctuating one, and eventually the curv^e 
of income to fall disproportionately to the curve of price? The house- 



4 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

wife is thus compelled to regard the diet from the point of view of the effi- 
ciency of the diet. The point of view of wanting the best at any price 
can no longer be followed in any class. The lesson of the efficiency of 
the diet, the control of the purchases of the American housewife and her 
instruction in the formulation of the family diet, from the standpoint of 
correct physiology and also from the standpoint of her economic situa- 
tion, constitute the problems that trained women during the next year 
will be compelled to face concretely in their everyday work. 

The standard of diet in Europe is very low — in Europe as a continent. 
It is higher in England than it was before the war, for the poorer class. 
But that is largely a question of governmental subsidy. Everywhere 
in Europe where the government is not paying for the food and giving 
it away, the standard of li\'ing is very much reduced ; and in most coun- 
tries even where the government is paying for the food and giving it 
away, the same condition exists. Europe, outside of Russia, is consum- 
ing about eighty per cent of the bread-grain she consumed before the 
war. She makes up for the reduction in the amount of wheat and rye 
consumed by milling it more highly. They do not mill grain to seventy 
per cent in Europe. They extract it to eighty or ninety per cent, and 
thus the volume of flour is little lower than it was before the war. The 
reduction in consumption of animal products of all sorts cannot be made 
up. There is an increase in vegetable food, but this is poor in calories. 
Therefore Europe is on a poorer diet. Europe is doing less physical 
work than before the war, her inhabitants have suffered reduction in 
bodyweight. In addition to scarcity of food supply, there is scarcity 
of clothing and coal. Fortunately, they have had two mild winters in 
Europe. The clothing they use is more thin, and the houses are not 
heated in Europe to anything like the pre-war temperature. This 
exaggerates, of course, the effect of the low calorie intake. If the present 
winter should be a normal winter, the usual cold winter, the present 
coal supply, the present clothing, and the present diet of Europe will 
make such a winter almost intolerable for millions of people. 

Now, the Europeans, when they had to cheapen their diet, did so by 
making the diet more vegetarian, and this has been done to a pronounced 
extent in Central Europe. The Germans were not especially hea\'y 
consumers of meats; contrary to popular belief they did not consume 
as much meat as the British or Americans. But they were heavy con- 
sumers of fats. The Germans used to believe that sauerkraut was a 
cabbage dish. They have learned that sauerkraut was a fat carrier, 



1921] ECONOMIC FOOD PROBLEMS 5 

and without fat the national dish of the diet fails. The German diet 
is today very low in fat. If the total calories are reduced fifteen or 
twenty per cent, the proportion of the calories in the form of flour must 
be very much increased. This is true of all countries. In Great Britain 
before the war bread was about thirty-seven per cent of the total calories; 
it has been fifty for the last three years. In France it was over fifty; 
it has risen to sixty per cent. In Italy it was sixty; it has risen to seventy 
per cent. Today Poland and Austria have as cereal a diet as Japan had 
before the war. The tendency of the diet of Europe has been oriental- 
ized in the direction of a large cereal intake. 

Now an abnormal and restricted diet of course works when it has to 
work. As a diet of compulsion it is acceptable. As a diet of choice it 
is impossible. The problem in this country is to guide Americans in a 
rational restriction of the diet, with the preservation of the attractive- 
ness of the diet and without producing an abnormal psychology. We 
do not want the practice of food substitutes revived in this country in 
any attempt to influence the diet of the American people, because it 
will not work in peace times. The war diet rested upon the exalted 
atmosphere of patriotism. In tlie guidance of the American kitchen 
in the development of the future diet that shall be saving, we must 
bear in mind that this must appeal to the normal psychology, it must 
be regarded as a normal and correct diet. The future diet must at 
least be equal to the diet of, let us say, fifteen or twenty years ago, 
when it was much more simple than it has been during the last year. 

A great deal of the possibility in diet reform depends upon our agri- 
cultural conditions. Fortunately in this direction we are aided and not 
opposed. We have enough wheat in this country to sustain an over- 
normal wheat consumption without restrictions, and still sell Europe 
two hundred and forty million bushels of grain. Europe will hardly 
be able to pay for this by any known method of finance outside of inter- 
national credits. There is no purpose in saving wheat in this country, 
no matter how badly Europe needs food, in order to secure that wheat 
for Europe, because it is not a question of indispensability as it was dur- 
ing the war. Europe will be able to find in the world the amount of 
wheat she is able to pay for without any restriction of wheat consumption 
in North America, AustraHa, or the Argentine. It is not a question of 
substitutes. On the contrary, it is possible that the European will be in 
the position of doing the substitution, partly, at least, for price reasons. 



6 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The Central Europeans prefer rye if they can secure it. Rye is twenty 
per cent cheaper than wheat, and they will import all the rye from this 
country that they can secure that vn]l meet requirements. Of course, 
a good deal of our rye does not meet milling requirements, because, 
whereas only a small proportion of wheat raised will not yield good 
flour, a large proportion of the rye is only adapted to animal feed or 
for distillation. Nevertheless Europe will first take rye. She will then 
purchase wheat. Europeans already have all the barley they can 
possibly employ as human food. They take it from their animals. 
If they import barley from the outside world, they will not import it 
for the purpose of making flour; they will import feed barley, and then 
from their own barley select milling barley, making that into flour 
because it is cheaper. Europe will not import maize from the United 
States. The Italian crop of maize and the ciop in the Balkans is good. 
South Europeans will of their own accord employ maize in their diet 
more largely than in the past. Northern Europe could use a fifty-five 
per cent extracted, degerminated corn-flour, but they do not call for 
it; they would have the same problem of importing, and the mere fact 
that corn flour is somewhat cheaper does not modify the financial diffi- 
culty to a great extent. And in any event if they import maize they 
would not import it from here, but from the Argentine where it is cheaper. 

We must therefore look forward to the situation that out of the record 
crop of grains in this country we shall export only wheat and rye to 
Europe. This makes the other grains and all the other feeds available 
for an extended output of animal products of all sorts. We shall mill 
possibly fifty million bushels of wheat this year less than we did last 
year. On the other hand, our extraction of flour is lower this year, so 
that there is in each ton of grain more mill feed. This is of very great 
importance, because the chief dair>^ sections of our country are located 
in close proximity to the large milling centers. 

We shall have a somewhat larger crop of cotton, which means a some- 
what larger crop of cotton seed. If the cotton seed is higher than nitrate 
from Chile and tankage from Chicago, the grower will sell it, and it will 
come north in the form of dairy feed ; if it is cheaper, he will put it back 
into the soil as fertilizer. The fall in the price of cotton fiber tempts 
the grower to hold up the price of seed. In other words, if we have a 
ten or twelve per cent increase in the cotton crop, this does not mean 
that we shall have ten or twelve per cent more cotton seed available 
as feed. On the other hand we have a larger amount of barley and 



1921] ECONOMIC FOOD PROBLEMS 7 

rye available, because we have no production of malted and distilled 
liquors, and this means that these grains will be more available for feed 
than before. We have in the West a large crop of all forms of coarse 
grains. We have a bumper crop of corn, with the carry-over about three 
billion four hundred million bushels. The country was never so long 
on feed as at present. This would naturally mean, other things being 
equal, with a stable price in view, a large production of animal products 
at a low price. 

If this could occur, it would provide one basis for reduction in the 
cost of the diet in the American home, without material change in the 
direction of outlay. Unfortunately, however, this calculation runs 
counter to the fact that we have not the animals. We have lost about 
ten per cent of cattle and six per cent of swine in the last twelve months; 
special counts were made on the first of August of this year and last 
year, giving this result. So we have the anomalous situation of eighteen 
per cent above normal in feeds, ten per cent below normal in cattle, six 
per cent below normal in swine, and no possibility of making it up this 
year. Therefore, no matter to what extent the prices of oats or corn 
may fall, even to the pre-war level, it cannot be expected that a large 
volume of animal products above that of last year can be secured, on 
account of the scarcity of animals. 

To what is the scarcity of animals due? It is due to the inability of 
the farmer to see a continuation of the market demands of the past 
two years. Three years ago we exported a very large amount of animal 
products. Two years ago it was still large. Last year it dropped 
heavily. Next year it will probably drop back to the pre-war level. 
This has been due to the fact that three years ago and two years ago 
we were selling animal products to Europe on goverimiental credit. 

Now, Europe does not import cash lard or beef as against cash wheat. 
Europe imports wheat because it gives the most calories per dollar. 
The result we may expect is that the exportation of animal products 
will descend largely. To our amazement, in the last month the money 
value of food imported into this country exceeded the money value of 
food exported from the country. How quickly the trend from a food 
exporting into a food importing nation is being accelerated! 

What will the farmer do with the limited amount of cattle and swine 
and the unlimited amount of feed that he cannot sell as feed? Fortu- 
nately, all the grains are sound and dry and will not decompose. He 
could keep them over for another year or a second year. But the holding 



8 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

of crops means credit facilities which he does not possess, unless he can 
secure an extension of credit which at present does not seem possible. 

The farmer must attempt to market as much as possible this year. 
He may finish for market a larger percentage of the animals than ordi- 
narily, which means that the count of animals would be still further 
reduced in another year; or be may feed the animals to heavier weights. 
When the farmer feeds animals to heavier weights, he disturbs certain 
price relations which are based upon taste. In one case he will feed 
in the direction of public taste; in the other, he wiU feed in opposition 
to public taste. The farmer who is feeding beeves to heavier weights, 
will be feeding in opposition to scientific authority; the older and larger 
the animals, the lower the return in meat to the imit of grain employed. 
The efficient method is to produce baby beef, not three and four year 
old steers. But in order to get as much grain as possible into the final 
product, since he can count his corn of little value unless he can get it 
into the form of meat, the farmer will be tempted to feed his cattle much 
longer and to hea\aer weights. The pubHc likes beef from heavy weight 
cattle. These furnish the big cuts that the hotels and restaurants want, 
just as our own army and navy, during the war, made absurd demands 
upon the Food Administration for the largest carcasses. The taste of 
the American pubHc is toward cuts from heavier beef. Therefore, if 
during the course of this year the farmer does what we think he will 
do to get rid of his corn and feeds, you may find that the discrepancy 
that exists now in the price of choice cuts and secondary cuts in the 
meat shops will become less marked or possibly disappear. The char- 
acteristic thing today in the meat market is the high price for choice 
cuts, with moderate prices for the so-called secondary cuts, and losing 
money prices on poor cuts and on the by-products. The pubhc's pre- 
dilections for certain cuts is evidenced in the buying price. Before 
long you may find the price of the choice cuts reduced largely, and 
prices equalized. The other day, when corn sold at ninety cents in 
Chicago and at seventy in the western plains, prime steaks registered 
a very- high retail price. Now this discrepancy should disappear. Cer- 
tainly the feeding for larger beeves will please a more satisfied American 
customer. 

It will be just the reverse, however, when it comes to hogs. PubHc 
predilection is for lean bacon and small hams. The public likes the 
products of a pig that does not weigh over one hundred and fifty pounds. 
If the farmer, in order to get rid of his feed, feeds the animals to a much 



1921] ECONOMIC FOOD PROBLEMS 9 

heavier weight, this will mean that ham and bacon of the kind that 
Americans like will become scarce, that mess pork, large hams, and 
lard will become more plentiful. The price of these three may be 
counted upon to fall, whereas the price of the others will be maintained 
or rise. We shall be offered the kinds of products that we care less for, 
except in so far as the use of lard in the kitchen is concerned. The 
final result of the operation will be to reduce the price of heavy hogs, 
which will still further augment the difficulty of the farmer. It may 
make the cost of the choice hams and bacon still higher than it is now 
unless the public declines to buy at those prices, and, even with the small 
stock, producers are compelled to reduce the prices. The tendency, 
therefore, will be to increase the consumption of beef, and decrease the 
consumption of pork, partly as an expression of price and partly as an 
expression of taste relations. 

This is not what we desire. What we need is an increase in the 
production of milk. It ought to be possible to accomplish this under 
the present circumstances, where the drift of labor back to the farm has 
clearly set in. We may be assured that the price of feed will fall. Cer- 
tainly feeds are today almost a drug on the market — -gluten, for example. 
We anticipate a progressive and continuous fall in the price of the protein 
concentrated feeds. This together with the return of labor to the farm 
will enable the American dairy to increase the production of milk. 

One of the things that enables a stable price to be maintained is 
variety of uses and diversity of buyers. During the recent years we 
have had a moderate export of cheese, a good export of butter, and a 
large export of condensed milk. These exports are certain to fall away. 
When Danish butter comes to New York and undersells ours, it is 
impossible to believe that we can continue the exportation of dairy prod- 
ucts. We are now sending condensed milk to Europe only as a part of 
relief programs. The volume of milk which Asia, the West and East 
Indies, and some other countries took from us before the war is not 
enough to support the present condenseries throughout the country 
with more than a nominal activity. Some of them are compelled to 
close down. As these condenseries close down, they will throw the milk 
back upon the dairy. In the reduction of cattle that has occurred during 
the last year, fortunately only a slight reduction in milch cows is included. 
The cities must consume more whole milk. 

We must centralize the American diet, for the period of reconstruction 
of prices, around bread and milk, where it belongs, not around bread 



10 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

and meat. Fifty per cent of the calories in cereals (bread) and twenty 
per cent in dairy products would be the foundations of an ideal national 
diet. We must preach this and teach it at all times; for valuable as 
meat is in many ways, it is not to be regarded as comparable witli milk 
in the diet, but only as an imperfect substitute for milk. During the 
war Graham Lusk preached correctly and effectively the priority of 
milk over meat. The American diet, if it is to be maintained in effi- 
ciency for all classes, must be within the buying power of the classes of 
lesser means. Otherwise, in the reconstruction of the family budgets, 
the most essential article may go out, and less essential articles will to 
some extent be maintained. If the farmer feeds his corn to produce 
heavyweight hogs and throws upon the market lard at a low price, the 
tendency will be to replace milk in the home with lard, both for cooking 
and direct consumption. This would put the people of our cities in the 
position which the mill operators of the South have occupied for many 
years, and certainly with deplorable results. If choice is to be deter- 
mined solely by price, then there is a likelihood of the pubHc consuming 
lard rather than dair)^ products. It is therefore imperative that dieti- 
tians should stand before their communities and preach and teach that 
under no circimistances should the milk of the diet be reduced. Reduc- 
tions in price may be attained in many directions; lowering of milk 
consumption is not to be included. Beside milk stands bread. 

There are several directions in which economy can be attained without 
any loss of efficiency whatsoever. We have developed during recent 
years an enormous consumption of fruits and vegetables, at all seasons 
of the year and from all quarters of the globe. When we were conside:- 
ing the war time restriction of imports of so-called less essential foods, 
we studied the distribution of tropical and other forms of fruit. No- 
where in the world is theie such a consumption of fresh fruits and vege- 
tables during the twelve months as occurs in this country. Now, it is 
very good to have them all. It is all admirable, ideally considered. It 
is healthful. But in the volume that we employ them, when contracted 
with milk, they cannot be defended. If our people have to choose 
between less milk and less fruits and vegetables, including hot-house, 
tropical, imported, of all kinds, there can be no argument. In the 
first place, milk furnishes far more calories per unit. There are fat- 
soluble vitamines in certain vegetables, it is true, but the milk has also 
balanced protein. The whole diet rotates about milk in the preparation 
of food, and it cannot be replaced. 



1921] ECONOMIC FOOD PROBLEMS 11 

I have seen people trying to live on leaf vegetables, which contain the 
vitamines found in milk. They get their vitamines, but they do not 
get much else. Of plant products the seeds contain the least fat-soluble 
vitamine and the most calories. Roots and tubers contain less calories 
and more vitamine. The leaf vegetables contain the least calories and 
the most fat-soluble vitamine. Milk contains everything but roughage. 
The leaf vegetables are to be highly prized, but vegetables as a class 
cannot be compared with milk. The reduction must come chiefly in 
hot-house and tropical fruits and vegetables, and in domestic products 
that are transported long distances. This does not mean a lowering of 
the standard of living. It means merely a return to the simplicity of 
use that even the wealthy classes had only twenty years ago. 

Another question is that of sugar. Pre-war sugar was a very cheap 
food. Sugar at twelve cents a pound retail is still cheap food, much 
cheaper than the meats. Even sugar at twenty cents a pound is cheaper 
than many meat products. But it is not the price of sugar with which 
we are concerned, it is the form in which it is consumed. It is not 
consumed as sugar. It is consumed largely as confections. We do 
not want less sugar consumed, we want it at a cheaper price. The 
sugar cost of a pound of candy is not over six to eight cents. The price 
of a pound of candy varies from thirty cents to two dollars. We must 
not confuse sugar consumption with confection consumption. The 
difl&culty with American consumption of sugar is not that it is too high 
but that it is consumed in a mass of other materials, and we pay so 
much for labor, rent, overhead, wrappings, and profit that the retail 
price paid by the individual is entirely out of proportion to the sugar 
value or food value of the commodity. 

What we suggest for the American home is not reduction of sugar at 
the table or in the kitchen. We need a reduction of sugar in the form 
of its more expensive manufactured states — confections and beverages. 
It is hygienic to consume sugar in the form of candy with the meals. 
It is just as good as in the form of straight sugar. But the latter costs 
now twelve cents a pound and the other costs multiples of that. If 
we could reduce the cost of the sugar that we consume, let us say eighty- 
five pounds a year, by changing the form so that we consume it as we 
buy it and do our own fabricating, if you please, rather than buy so 
much in a highly fabricate form, it would result in a very large saving. 
If we are going to cheapen the American diet without reducing its quality, 
we must do so by increasing the consumption of bread, increasing the 



12 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

consumption of milk, and by decreasing the consumption of certain 
fruits and vegetables, by reducing the consumption of meats and meat 
products, and by holding the consumption of sugar to the amount we 
are accustomed to, because it is a cheap food. But let us consume sugar 
more in the form of sugar and less in the form of confections of all kinds 
that bear a very high cost of preparation and marketing as related to the 
actual cost of the sugar components. Is it not possible to go back to 
the sugar consumption of twenty years ago, when we consumed more 
in the dining room and less in the parlors and on the street? 

These are the only ways in which the American diet can be cheapened 
and not be injured. We must not permit the diet to be injured. We 
are the best nourished people in the world. We have acquired rather 
elevated ideas, as a whole, in regard to what constitutes a proper and 
normal diet. It is our duty to teach the American public how to spend 
materially less raoney, since we are going to have lower incomes. We 
must consume less and save more if we are to pay our debts. If we do 
not do this, we will at once provoke class contrasts; and class contrasts 
today are not only unfortunate and unjust; they are very dangerous. 

The chief basis for social unrest abroad is inadequate food and poor 
housing. Now the term "poor food" is partly relative. In some coun- 
tries it means actually poor food. In other countries it means merely 
a reduction from the accustomed standards. This leads to discontent 
as the people think lower standards of living are due to the government 
in power; that if they could change the government it would mean a 
lowering in the price of commodities and increase in diet. Now this is 
impossible, of course, but it constitutes the basis for social unrest. 
People fancy that if things were better managed they would not be 
compelled to change their diet or reduce their standard of living. It 
is inevitable. It must occur to some extent here. It must occur in 
South America. It has occurred in Japan as it has occurred in England. 
It must occur everywhere for the simple reason that if the fiscal affairs 
of the world are properly run, the resources are not sufficient to maintain 
our inflated standard of living. If we are going to pay our debts we 
cannot eat and drink and play as we are doing. If we are going to repair 
the ravages of war we have to save, and that means a reduction in the 
total plane of living so that the national net income that is saved becomes 
augmented. We must produce more and consume less. 

This becomes a practical problem for all Americans. We cannot 
maintain our present high plane of living while the other nations live 



1921] COOPERATIVE SERVICE 13 

on a much lower plane. This means isolation here and bitterness 
everywhere else. It is fortunate for the American people that deflation 
has come before the contrast between us and the other nations had 
become more pronounced. We must use every effort to influence the 
trend of price deflation in the direction of normality of consumption. 
The readjustment that is inevitable should be done equitably, fairly, 
eflaciently from the standpoint of the purchasing power, justly from the 
standpoint of the social consciousness, in a manner to give satisfaction 
to all classes of our population. 



COOPERATIVE SERVICE BETWEEN THE TEXTILE LABO- 
RATORY AND THE MERCANTILE WORLD^ 

GRACE G. DENNY 

University of Washington, Seattle 

My subject may be boiled down to a simple question: What help 
can a teacher of textiles give and what can she receive from the business 
people of the community? 

I say "business people," because the relationship may not be limited 
to department store merchants. Everyone who handles fabrics has 
a point of contact for the textile teacher. There are cloth mills, knitting 
mills, clothing factories, laundries, cleaners' and dyers' establishments, 
wholesale and jobbing houses, importers and exporters. All who deal 
in textile fabrics can contribute something of value and no doubt need 
help which the textile teacher can give. However most of her dealings 
are with salespeople in drygoods stores. 

Just how one department of home economics has become connected 
with the business people of the city illustrates a phase of this cooperation. 
The experience represents seven years of neighborhness with the mer- 
chants, coming about in the most natural way. Questions were always 
arising in regard to materials which the text or reference books did not 
answer. The simplest thing was to ask someone who had expert knowl- 
edge. Such persons are found in high class department stores. 

1 Presented at the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Colorado Springs, June, 1920. 



14 THE joxjRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

While shopping for samples for the laboratory, I found a salesman in 
the hnen section at one store who had a wealth of information on the 
growing and preparation of flax, the different grades of Knen and con- 
ditions in the linen market. He was dehghted to find someone who 
cared about these things. He loved to tell of his boyhood duties in the 
flax field and later apprenticeship in a mill in Scotland. Here was a 
man who could present the subject of Unen much better than any labo- 
ratory-trained teacher. The next step was to get permission for classes 
to visit the store, see the linens, and have Mr. Blank explain the stock. 
The students, first having learned what they could from books and the 
limited supply of fabrics in the laboratory, were intelligent listeners. 
Many of them were expecting to buy linens soon and took a more vital 
interest because of that in the qualities and prices. 

In another store, a rug salesman was discovered who has expert 
knowledge and the ability to impart it. When showing a wool beside 
a worsted wilton he allows the students to test their book knowledge in 
a practical way. Mr. Rug Salesman now looks forward regularly to 
visits from classes. The students consider this event one of the treats 
of the course. 

There is a buyer of silk and wool goods who is a positive inspiration. 
He always has some new thing to show or some interesting bit of trade 
news he has just brought back from New York. Perhaps he has been 
through another factory and bought some illustrative material, such as 
sam.ple cards from a Jacquard loom or photographs of fabric printing. 

A young woman of unusual taste and intelligence in another store 
buys lingerie and infants' wear. She makes it her business to give any 
information wanted, lend any merchandise, receive students and speak 
to them. When infants' clothing, for example, is being studied we 
borrow complete layettes, varying from the most deHcate handmade 
batistes to an outfit supplying only warmth and utility. This is, of 
course, good advertising; yet the buyer is free from any hint of it. She 
seems to want only to cooperate with the University. 

It is not always when asking for help that one learns from these 
specialists. Often in passing through the store a little friendly chat 
will bring out information regarding goods or market conditions, which 
would not be gained from trade journals. 

Care is taken not to cultivate one store more intensively than another. 
Materials for laboratory use are bought from different shops in their 
turn. This shows the students that no store is given preference. It 



1921] COOPERATIVE SERVICE 15 

also affords opportunity to make connections with more buyers and 
store officials. Often a salesman hears about the textile laboratory for 
the first time in this way. He becomes interested. He is invited to the 
Open House, or Annual Exhibition of the Home Economics Department 
and from that time feels an interest and pride in the textile laboratory 
at the University. 

There is all the excitement of a game about discovering new people 
in the stores who are interested in educational work. 

The same generous spirit has been shown by wholesale merchants and 
manufacturers. Expert advice has been received, samples and perma- 
nent exhibits have been prepared and placed in the laboratory. 

The mills and factories have been opened to classes of students. 
Another source of help has come from the Industrial Bureau of the 
Chamber of Commerce, which has investigated possible textile manu- 
facturing for the Pacific Northwest. Much valuable data has been 
received before it was made public in print. Editors of technical business 
magazines have been very willing to answer questions of practical 
interest. Trade journals dealing with fabrics and wearing apparel 
prove stimulating and informing. 

The local merchants began, before long, to send materials to the 
laboratory to be tested. The most common inquiries were in regard to 
cotton and wool mixtures, the way fibers are combined, or, perhaps 
percentage composition, or the distinction between fiber and real silk. 
These tests were sometimes made with student help as in the prepara- 
tion of a large number of microscopic mounts. The test in question 
was always brought before the textile classes so that they might see the 
application of what they were learning. 

Though contact with department stores has been more frequent 
than with other firms, tests have been made also for a men's clothing 
eompany, a wholesale dry goods house, an importing firm and a large 
laundry. Usually the question calls for some knowledge of textiles 
which few commercial chemists have. For instance, when a laundry 
wanted collars of pre-war quality compared with more recent make, 
no chemical skill was needed, but ability to use the micrometer for 
making thread counts. The variation in the number of warp ends and 
picks per inch in the sample collars submitted settled a disputed point. 

The benefits of this sort of cooperation are intended for the student. 
Whether that student be a college freshman or junior, or a housewife 
in an extension class, or a young man from a department store, the 



16 , THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

reaction is the same. All feel added confidence in tests which are of 
value in the business world. They see problems in testing instead of 
mere laboratory exercises. They are kept up to date on merchandise 
and find that "textiles" is a live subject, one which cannot be learned 
from the library alone. They gain an appreciation of market conditions 
which often explains the situation in which the merchant is placed. 
They see him, not as a cartoon figure, but, as a serious student of business 
affairs beset with many problems. Those who go out to teach retain 
this sympathetic attitude toward the small merchant in the small town, 
and estabhsh relations similar to those which they have observed in 
the college laboratory. They also feel an increased interest in a course 
which may lead directly into a vocation. 

A young lady walked into a Seattle store and inquired for the employ- 
ment manager. It was after his office hours. The man who happened 
to answer her was the buyer of silks. He asked if she wanted a job and 
if she had had experience. She replied that she had no experience but 
she had taken a course in textiles at Ohio State University. He offered 
her a place in his own department and has found her unusually efficient. 
One of my former students who had dropped out of college was work- 
ing as a wrapper in a basement salesroom. She had not thought of 
asking for anything better. The buyer in charge of the section dis- 
covered by chance that she had studied textiles. He immediately had 
her put on his sales force, where she has opportunity to advance as 
fast as her ability permits. 

A number of students, whose fathers are small town merchants, take 
the textile course with keen interest. They frequently bring in fabrics 
from the home store to test. This forms an indirect connection with 
stores throughout the state. 

One phase or outgrowth of cooperation is the establishment of a four 
year course called Retail Store Selling. This developed in the depart- 
ment of home economics and, since the establishment of the College of 
Business Administration, is ofi"ered jointly by both departments. Tex- 
tiles is a requirement for all freshmen. Practice in selling in stores, 
imder supervision, is required before graduation. This training will 
prepare for educational directors in stores, high school teachers of retail 
selling, personal service work, or may lead to the position of assistant 
buyer or buyer. 

In the beginning of this relationship between store and laboratory 
the work was not at all organized. Educational training for salespeople 



1921] COOPERATIVE SERVICE 17 

had not been developed in the West. It was a novel idea to have some 
one come to the store and lecture on textiles. 

I shall never forget my first experience before a group of salespeople. 
There were forty present. I went before them with fear and trembling. 
After my kaleidoscopic speech (I attempted to tell them all I knew of 
the subject in one hour!), I offered to make clear any points I could by 
answers to questions. One man quizzed me rather severely on several 
items. I wondered if he really wanted to know all the. details he was 
asking about so intelligently. After he had apparently satisfied him- 
self, he said, "Well, you're right!" I found later that he was one of the 
oldest and shrewdest buyers in the store and was very skeptical of 
college trained people in business. 

Other stores have requested lectures, or a series of lectures, before 
various groups in the establishment. An advertising manager, wishing 
to introduce an educational feature, had popular talks given for the 
public during ''Silk Week." A course of ten weeks was given in the 
same store through the extension division. In this class of fifteen 
studying textiles, there was not one person selling yardage. All were 
executives or in clerical or service departments. The man who had 
charge of adjustments found the work of immediate practical value in 
handling merchandise. Two members of the class later became trained 
educational directors. 

From these various calls, a new type of work has developed. In 
June I finished a course, covering the spring quarter, which was requested 
by our most conservative store. This class was not for salesmen but 
for buyers — most of them with ten to twenty years of store experience. 
Five high school teachers of retail selling were admitted. Four persons 
in service departments, including the educational director and tlie four- 
teen buyers, comprised the class. 

These men and women represented a wide range of merchandise, 
men's clothing, women's clothing, boy's clothing, yardage in wool, silk, 
linen and cotton, drapery fabrics, millinery, laces and trimmings, art 
needlework and lingerie. One man has charge of a large section for 
which he buys twenty-three lines of stock. They came to the laboratory 
in the evening and made tests and judged fabrics like any students. 
They proved to be the most interesting group I have ever taught. In 
fact they taught me and taught each other many things. 

There was often lively debate over some question of terminology and 
sometimes the text books were found in error. Several members of the 



18 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

class had visited mills and could give excellent descriptions of processes. . 
On the other hand, many were chagrined to find how little they knew 
of merchandise in a neighboring section of the store. Almost every 
week some one came with a sample to be analyzed. 

One time the young man from men's furnishings brought out wool 
hose which had been washed for shrinkage. He had found a difference 
in two kinds which were presumably all wool. One was imported and 
did not shrink in the least. This mysterious fact was explained after 
they had tested the fibers and found the yarns in both all wool and 
were shown the character of each. The non-shrinking hose was made 
from a very fine, very tightly twisted two-ply worsted yarn, while the 
other, although worsted, was single-ply and slightly twisted. The 
enthusiasm over these discoveries and the pride in making them sur- 
passed by far the most brilliant and interested of college students. 

The immediate usefulness of the course was indeed gratifying. One 
man said he gathered his sales force about him on Tuesday morning and 
told them what he had learned the night before. A salesman said he 
had never known how to teU the right from the wrong side of serge until 
the buyer came and told them what he had learned about weaves. 
Likewise the question of the right side of damask was a point of interest 
to some. A buyer, in the class, told the educational director after the 
first night, that one lesson was worth $5.00 to him. Growing interest 
in the work is evidenced by the request from this store alone that two 
courses be offered next year — one for buyers and one for assistant 
buyers. 

Through these various avenues of commercial activity the textile 
laboratory is given opportunity to function in the community. In 
short, there is cooperative service between the textile laboratory and 
the merchantile world. 



1921] THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT 19 

THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT IN RELATION TO HEALTH' 

MICHAEL M. DAVIS, JR., AND BERTHA M. WOOD 
The Boston Dispensary 

THE POLES AND OTHER SLAVIC PEOPLES 

The Polish people introduce us to a northern climate where the sum- 
mers are not so long as the winters. Very few of the people from the 
cities of Poland come to America. Those we find here are the peasant 
class. They have lived on farms where they raised grain and vegetables 
that develop during a short season, such as beans, carrots, turnips, pars- 
nips, cabbage, lettuce, and other summer vegetables. Tomatoes are 
not raised, nor are they known to the people outside of Warsaw. They 
raise stock from which they get milk and meat. In the winter they are 
fond of hunting and they know many ways of cooking game. Many 
spend their summers farming and their winters lumbering. Wood is 
used almost exclusively for fuel. Great ovens are built out-of-doors, 
where quantities of food are prepared to be stored away for winter use. 

Meat has a prominent place in the Polish diet — beef, veal, and pork 
being the kinds most commonly used. These are roasted or used in 
combination with vegetables and boiled. Pork is perhaps the favorite 
kind, and they have many ways of making it into sausage and of 
smoking it. When smoked it is often covered with mace to add flavor. 
This is not only true among the Poles but also among other Slavic people. 
Pork is frequently used with beef and made into puddings or loaves. 

In the winter the only fresh meat used is game, and it is customary to 
roast this over an open fire. The skins are used for clothing, including 
shoes. It has been in very recent years only that floors have been laid 
in the country homes, families heretofore going barefooted on dirt floors. 

Fish is used fresh in summer and pickled in winter. It is rarely pre- 
served by salting. In some restaurants of the large cities of Poland and 
Russia there are tanks or aquariums filled with edible fish for the enjoy- 
ment of the guests, who designate to the waiter the kind of fish they prefer. 
It is then taken from the tank and prepared. Fish is boiled or baked but 
for special occasions the best cooks prefer to make it into cutlets. These 
are cooked fish blended with a sauce or gravy and shaped, then fried or 
baked, and served with a sauce or gravy. 

1 The first article of this series appeared in the December Journal. The series will be 
concluded in February. 



20 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Potatoes are served at almost every meal. The preferred grain among 
all these people is barley. The Poles use commeal and oats also. 

Eggs are the dinner dish on Wednesdays and Fridays in place of meat. 
Sometimes chickens or ducks are used. 

When a family arrives in this country it is confronted by many new 
and strange appliances, such as agate and tin cooking utensils instead 
of copper and iron, and "so many kinds to learn how to use"^ — double 
boilers, "funny egg beaters that you turn as yoU do a hand organ," 
bread pans, and egg poachers. Then there are "stoves with no fires in 
them an no place for the wood, just holes in irons, "and if you turn a 
handle and apply a lighted match fire comes." 

The clothing is queer, too. Hats made of straw or felt are such won- 
derful things compared with kerchiefs. Other clothing seems of such 
light weight material, even in winter. 

When the maa of the family gets his first job, it is as a laborer, some- 
times building our railroads, bridges, or subways. He generally carries 
his noon luncheon and it consists of bread broken from a loaf, either 
round or oblong, whichever is the convenient shape to fit the oven. 
With this he may have some bizos, if he is Polish. Bizos is made of 
two kinds of sausage, red and white, sauerkraut, tender beef, pork and 
barley, all boiled together until thick, and known as pudding. When 
cold it is sliced and eaten either cold or warmed. The laborer has no 
place to warm it, so he eats it cold. In his own country bizos was one of 
the luncheon meats taken when hunting, and as he sits on the curb, or 
out along the railroad he is helping to build, he enjoys his lunch, accom- 
panied by memories of one of those hunting expeditions and the friends 
who were with him. 

The family diet slowly changes from flour gruel and potatoes, with 
coffee, for breakfast. The custom of eggs for dinner on Wednesdays and 
Fridays they continue as long as they are able to afford it. In winter 
because of the high price of eggs and because the man is out of work, 
they must hunt a substitute, or what is more frequently done, eggs are 
left out and no substitute is provided. Flaxseed oil is their favorite fat. 
This is hard to find here and this necessitates learning to use some of 
the vegetable oils which we have. 

The Polish children and those of the other Slavic people come from a 
sturdy race. Upon arrival in this country they have round well-shaped 
heads, rosy cheeks, and strong bodies. With their kerchiefs over their 
heads they make fascinatmg pictures of health. They have had an 



1921] THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT 21 

abundance of milk and fresh air in their own countries. Here they live 
at first in crowded districts and milk is counted as a drink, not something 
to eat. Therefore, because the family income is small, it is almost en- 
tirely left out of the diet. If these children are fortunate enough to 
belong to Polish families who have saved and bought land in the country, 
in order that the men might grow tobacco or have onion farms, then the 
family will keep goats and the children will have milk, fresh air, vege- 
tables, and fruit. Otherwise they eat what the grown-ups have, and they 
pay the price. Sometimes they are constipated, with accompanying 
ill-feelings; sometimes they are under- weight. 

In cases of undernourishment among the children, it is always neces- 
sary with the Slavs, as with all other foreign-born people, to prescribe 
milk and to help plan the food budgets so that milk may be included in 
the children's diets. Among their soups, children may have roselzla- 
zankamt, a consomme with eggs dropped in it. Eggs are beaten as for 
scrambled eggs and dropped into the hot soup by small spoonfuls just 
before serving. They may also have chicken soup or krupnik palski, 
which is prepared with barley. Cereals are eaten not only for breakfast, 
cooked in milk, but often in soups or baked and served with meat. As 
vegetables are seldom cooked and served without meat, it is necessary 
not only to prescribe them, but also to show the family how to make 
purees and to cook plain vegetables. Kieselle is one of the desserts 
children like; it is made of blackberries, raspberries, or black concord 
grapes. 

A constipation diet is a very easy one to find for these people as they 
naturally are large vegetable eaters. Szynka pieczona zkasza, ham 
roasted with cabbage, or rozbiantere dusgony, roast fowl with vegetables, 
illustrate how inseparable are their meats from their vegetables. Dus- 
gony or vegetables they welcome on a diet list. Cereals in the form of 
coarse or whole grains they use. These will come under the name of 
kasga, which is boiled in milk or baked in water with milk and fat added 
during the baking to give moisture. 

The diabetic patient finds consolation in the number of fish dishes 
known to the Polish and Russian folk. Ryba wgalarecle, or fish in jelly, 
is much enjoyed. The jelly is made with lemon and the first layer 
often has chopped cabbage or celery in it. When this is set, the fish, 
already boiled, is placed upright in it and more cooled jelly added to 
cover the fish. Pigs' feet in jelly is another favorite dish made of the 
gelatine from the feet of the pig, with meat from the hocks. Ciely, or 



22 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

veal roasted or made into cutlets, may be used; also pork or wieprzony 
prepared in a number of ways. Sledy pocztomy or maatjis herring is 
often used for supper. 

For nephritic patients it is again hard to separate their protein from 
their vegetables. Their vegetable soups are made thick with vegetables 
and in this way they can be given in a diet. Zupa jarzynowa is vege- 
table soup made with a foundation of chicken stock and any or all 
kinds of seasonable vegetables added. Soup or rosal with makoronom 
or noodles cannot be included but borszoz zabillang can be given. It is 
a beet soup made by boiling both the tops and the roots of beets with 
the addition of fat and sour cream. 

Tuberculous patients will enjoy many of the smietanie or cream sauces 
which are used for vegetables, meats, and game. Ovsyanka is a very 
good oatmeal soup. 

The following story illustrates how a sympathetically prescribed diet, 
recognizing the value of familiar national foods, aids in winning the heart 
of people. A Russian woman was asked to interpret for a Ukrainian at 
a Food Clinic. She was not much interested at first, but when some of 
her well known foods were mentioned she looked up and said to the die- 
titian, "I only been here in this country three years, but you my sister." 
She then not only urged the patient to use the food prescribed, but was 
much more diligent thereafter in her own regimen. 

THE JEWS 

The wanderings of the Children of Israel since Bible times have made 
them an international race. They are known to all countries and have 
adapted themselves to different climates and products. Because of 
these conditions they have a more varied dietary than any other people. 
They have acquired the use of Russian, Polish, German, Spanish, and 
Italian foods, and have adapted them to their dietary laws. It is essen- 
tial that the Jewish dietary laws^ be understood, at least in genera), by 
all who attempt medical or social work among Orthodox Jews. 

When the Jew arrives in this country, some of the limitations of his 
diet, if unchanged by instruction, are evident. Many of the Jewish 
people who come to America have lived much of the time out-of-doors, 
worked out-of-doors, and played out-of-doors. Here many thousands of 

2 An account of Jewish dietary laws may be found in Jewish Dietary Problems, by Mary 
L. Schapiro, in the Journal for February, 1919. 



1921] THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT 23 

them are tailors, sitting all day indoors at their work, having little exer- 
cise or fresh air. Many of them pay little attention to their diet during 
the week, until their Sabbath. Then on Friday night, Saturday, and on 
our Sunday, which to most of them is a holiday, they have a feast time. 
On Friday all the cooking is done for the next two days. Chickens 
are cooked, soup made, and kuchen (cakes) and mehlspeise (flour mix- 
tures) prepared. The result of these weekly feasts is that many of the 
Jews eat too much, or have not a well-balanced ration. By nature the 
Jews are an emotional people. A slight physical discomfort usually sends 
them to a doctor where the readjustment of their diet many times would 
produce a cure. 

The dietary restrictions of the use of butter and meat at the same 
time limit the use of vegetables. Jewish people are therefore not as 
fond of them as they ought to be for their own physical well-being. Rich 
foods are customary in Jewish families, and it is with difficulty that a 
taste for the simpler foods is cultivated. One must not forget that the 
Jewish housewife utilizes a small amount of fresh meat in dozens of 
ways. Jewish women have long known how to use honey, molasses, and 
syrup in place of sugar. Sugar has often been a luxury in the countries 
from which they come. 

They have also been fond of rye, barley, oats, and buckwheat. These 
cereals have been used both in puddings and soups. Probably no other 
people have so many kinds of "sours" as the Jews. On the other hand 
they have little knowledge of stewed fruits, but do have many kinds of 
rich preserved fruits. All these highly seasoned foods they have in 
abundance. In the Jewish sections of our large cities, there are store- 
keepers whose only goods are pickles. They have cabbages pickled whole, 
shredded, or chopped and rolled in leaves, peppers pickled, also string 
beans, cucumbers — sour, half sour, and salted — beets and many kinds 
of meat and fish. This excessive use of pickled foods destroys the taste 
for milder flavors, causes irritation, and renders assimilation more 
difficult. 

In prescribing diets for the Jewish people it might be helpful, both to 
the person who prescribes and to the patient for whom the diet is pre- 
scribed, to remember that all their foods may be classified under three 
heads: (1) meat or fish, (2) milk and its products, and (3) neutrals. 
Meat and milk are never mixed. Neutrals may be used with meat or 
with milk products but never with both in the same meal. 



24 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The Jewish children sufiFer from too many pickles, too few vegetables, 
and too little milk. Since they cannot drink milk with their meals if 
they have meat or fish, mid-morning and mid-afternoon meals of milk 
have to be introduced. This is impossible if the children are in school, 
unless there is a school lunch. Enuresis is quite common among these 
children, as they are accustomed to having highly spiced foods in their 
diet, with pickles at and between meals. 

For undernourished children among the Jews, it is necessary not only 
to urge the use of milk, but to plan when it may be taken. Vegetables 
are usually needed in greater abundance. These may be eaten in borsch, 
a favorite soup such as our vegetable soup, but this does not give them in 
very large portions; therefore a menu should be given to show how they 
may be combined with other foods, remembering that, if sensed with a 
white sauce or butter or in the form of a cream soup, they must be 
eaten without meat, but can be used at the noon meal or lunch with 
bread. Poached or "dropped" eggs are not often used. The process 
is unknown. A "dropped" egg was prescribed for a patient who did not 
know what it meant. UTien it was explained that an egg was broken 
and its contents dropped into hot water, he shook his head and said, "Oh, 
no! I lose my egg; he get all mixed with the water." When he was taken 
to the stove and saw an egg poached, he stood in wonder and admira- 
tion. He said, "I go home tell my wife, she never knowed that." Since 
then m.any mothers and even children themselves have been shown in 
this same food clinic how to poach eggs. 

Cereals are not used as a breakfast food because of the amount of 
work required to kasher them in large quantities. All cereals must be 
tested as follows: "Place them on a hot plate. If no worms or other 
insects appear they are fit to be eaten, if not fit they must be thrown 
away." The cereals used by the Jewish people are barley, oats, buck- 
wheat, and rice. These are baked in a pudding and eaten with meat. 
Children soon learn to eat cereals boiled with milk and will learn more 
easily if raisins are added. 

In the treatment of constipation, which is very frequent, cereal pud- 
ding or krupnick is given. Six glasses of water a day are prescribed, "to 
kasher the intestines," also rye bread or "Jewish black bread," and borsch 
once a day. 

There are many Jews who have diabetes. When prescribing for them 
one has not only to give a new dietary, but also to teach the ways to 
cook the foods allowed. For example, they have been accustomed to 



1921] THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT 25 

having vegetables in small quantities, cooked with beef; but for the dia- 
betic, this is excluded and new forms of cooking vegetables must be intro- 
duced. All non-carbohydrate vegetables after cooking may be served 
with drawn butter, white sauce, or a hoUandaise sauce, or with salt and 
a small portion of lemon juice or vinegar. Green peppers stuffed with 
vegetables are another pleasant variety. As the Jewish dietary does 
not allow shell fish or tripe, no thought need be given these, but liver is 
frequently used, kashered over the fire. This must be specified as not 
allowed in the diet. 

Before Passover the patient must be warned not to eat Mazzah or 
unleavened bread which is made of flour, salt, eggs, and water in the form 
of large crackers. Eggs baked in spinach or scrambled with mushrooms 
may be ordered. The Jewish people are fond of the flavor of almond 
omelet. Eggs scrambled with vegetables and baked in a nest of vegeta- 
bles are two of their favorite ways of preparing these foods. 

In cases of nephritis, all pickled *"oods should be discouraged, also the 
use of "sour salt." Almost all their soups are low in protein. Many 
of their meat dishes have little meat in them. 

The diet for a Jewish tubercular patient would have less of the carbo- 
hydrates and more of the protein foods than is usually found in the 
Jewish daily dietary. Milk and eggs may be given between meals, both 
in the mid-morning and mid-afternoon, and before bedtime. Milk 
dishes of all kinds, from a plain boiled or baked custard to a Bavarian 
cream, will have to be taught in exchange for some good recipe for soup 
which the patient may furnish. Once more the staple borsch may be 
used, made without meat and with the addition of sour cream. Sour 
cream is a favorite dressing for berries or fruit and may be used freely 
by these patients. 

The Jewish housewife has had to adapt herself a number of times to 
new foods and their preparation, each time remembering her dietary 
laws and arranging the recipes to conform to them. This fact makes 
her an apt pupil. 



26 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

GASTRIC RESPONSE TO FOODS^ 

ABSTRACTED BY MINNA C. DENTON 
Office of Home Economics, United Slates Department of Agriculture 

This paper consists largely of the summaries (quoted literally) of thirteen 
papers. Their interest for the teacher of dietetics is great, but caution must 
be observed in attempting to generalize from these results for the benefit of 
the "lay mind." 

The figures given in connection with acidity determinations, indicate the 
numbers of cubic centimeters of tenth-normal potassium hydroxide necessary 
to neutralize 100 cc. of gastric juice. "The curve of acidity may be taken as 
a measure of the glandular response of the stomach." Naturally a delayed 
evacuation time gives rise to a higher acidity than does a shorter time, pro- 
vided other factors are approximately equal — since the secretion of gastric 
juice is continuous over the entire period of gastric digestion, and since the 
successive disappearance through the duodenum of those portions of the food 
mass which are earUest digested results in higher and higher concentrations 
of undiluted gastric juice. However, the amounts of total acid evoked vary 
greatly with the tv-pe of food material, in the same stomach, and under the 
same conditions, as is well knowTi; proteins, for example, giving rise to a rela- 
tively high secretion of acid; fats and sugars to a relatively low one, even 
though their stay in the stomach is greatly prolonged. Also, "it is necessary 
to carefully distinguish rapid emptying with high acidity (a normal response) 
from rapid emptying with low acidity which is usually pathological and is 
readily brought about, for example, by a cold. No experiments on the latter 
class of individuals are reported here." 

The combmed acidity measures the amount of acid which has attached 
itself to certain kinds of radicles belonging to molecules found in the food 
mass (e.g., to the amino-acid radicle of proteins), while the free acidity meas- 
ures the acid which does not so combine. Fruits, for example, "leave the 
stomach very rapidly with the development of considerable free but Httle 
combined acidity." Naturally some allowance has to be made for the acidity 
of the fruits themselves. 

However, the ultimate development of a high acidity must be interpreted 
in conjunction with the general form of the acid curve, i.e., with the degree 
of acidity developed during the earlier stages of digestion. For example, the 
authors remark in one instance that "a high acidity was developed on ginger 

1 Abstract of thirteen papers from the Laboratory of Physiological Chemistry, Jefferson 
Medical College, Philadelphia; published in the American Journal of Physiology and in 
Science. The exact references will be found in the bibliography that will accompany the 
second installment of this article. 



1921] GASTRIC RESPONSE TO FOODS 27 

snaps, but this was very slow in development, indicating that the ginger 
depressed secretion." 

The authors emphasize the fact that different samples of the same kind of 
food, varying as they do in moisture content, in proportions of protein, fat, 
sugar, etc., in texture and consistency, must be expected to give somewhat 
different results even in the same stomach. A study of the digestion in the 
same stomach (or in each of several stomachs of different types) of food 
samples made from weighed amounts of uniform materials, by identical for- 
mulae and with unvarying manipulation, so as to be approximately uniform 
in physical and chemical characteristics, will doubtless yield more strictly 
comparable results for the use of the cook who must minister to the delicate 
or abnormal or temporarily incapacitated stomach. Yet this extensive series 
of experiments reveals the ability of the stomach of the healthy adult man to 
care for a large variety of food materials, i.e., the rather wide margin of reserve 
power, which leads to its comparative indifference, so to speak, to the great 
differences in physical and chemical characteristics between such materials 
as mashed potatoes and fried potato chips — to choose a single illustration. 

It should of course be remembered that these studies refer merely to gastric 
digestion, and do not indicate in any way the degree of completeness or 
thoroughness of digestion, at the end of the process. 



The first of these papers describes a certain piece of apparatus devised 
in this laboratory for the study of intragastric conductances and tempera- 
ture determinations without disturbance or removal of gastic contents; 
and discusses the causes for rise of conductance with the introduction 
of water or various foods into the stomach, with the swallowing of saliva, 
and with the regurgitation of pancreatic juice or bile. 

n 

The second paper describes certain studies on milk coagulation made 
with an individual "who had the unique ability to deliver samples of 
stomach contents at will." The conclusions contain the following deduc- 
tions: Raw whole cows' milk forms a large hard curd, whereas boiled 
milk curdles in a much finer and softer form. Pasteurized milk showed 
smaller curds than the raw whole milk but larger than the boiled whole 
milk. The drinking of 500 cc. or about 1 pint of a very rich pasteurized 
cream (40 per cent milk fat, a ''whipping cream") caused the formation 
of particularly soft curds after a delay of half an hour (instead of about 



28 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

half a minute as in the case of milk) , also a very uncomfortable heavy 
feeling which bordered on nausea. When a similar amount of a 20 per 
cent cream ("coflfee cream") was drunk, the delay was much less, though 
the stomach emptied slowly. Skimmed milk yielded a particularly 
hard curd due to the absence of fat. Cold milk coagulated more slowly 
than did warm milk. Milk Hrunk very slowly, or "sipped," coagulated 
in larger curds and left the stomach more slowly than did a similar 
sample of milk which was drunk very rapidly. 

in 

The third article in the series deals with the digestion of beef and beef 
products (cooked in various ways) in the stomach of normal men, using 
the fractional method of gastric analysis. Over 70 different experiments 
were made on 25 different subjects, who were classified as belonging 
either to the rapid-emptying type or else to the slow-emptying type. 
The average evacuation time for beef (100 grams, or nearly j pound) was 
in the former case 2 hours and 35 minutes, in the latter case 3 hours and 
25 minutes. As to methods of cooking, the report gives the following 
statements: 

Roast beef appeared to be handled by the stomach with about the same 
ease whether rare, medium, or well done, although the rare beef had perhaps 
a sHght advantage in this respect. Beef steaks appeared to be just as readily 
digested if cooked rare as if medium or well done. Very tough steaks from 
the cheaper and tougher cuts of meats such as rump and shank showed dis- 
tinctly more rapid evacuation than sirloin or the best tenderloin steaks, in 
the same individuals. Roast beef was found to lie between these two classes 
of steaks in gastric response and evacuation time. Hamburger steaks were 
found to leave the stomach in about the same time as an equal weight of 
roast beef under the same conditions. 

Stewed beef was handled by the stomach in practically the same time as 
roast beef, but with a less rapid development of acidity. The response to 
boiled corned beef was similar to that of roast beef or stewed beef. Acid 
production may, however, be slightly delayed in the case of corned beef. 
Dried beef was digested with almost the same ease as ordinary roast beef. 
There may be a shght delay due to the low moisture content if the meat is 
eaten dry. Beef bologna was handled by the stomach in the same length 
of time as roast beef. Calves' liver required a sHghtly longer time. Beef 
tongue was less readily digested than dried beef. Frankfurters left the stom- 



1921] GASTRIC RESPONSE TO FOODS 29 

ach rather quickly, as did also sweetbreads. Tripe was digested a little less 
rapidly than roast beef. 

IV 

The fourth paper reports similar studies made on the gastric digestion 
of pork and pork products. The average evacuation time for stomachs 
of the rapid-emptying type was 2 hours and 45 minutes; for those of the 
slow-emptying type, 3 hours and 40 minutes. 

Pork products in general were comparatively slow to leave the stomach 
as would be expected from their high fat content. The differences were not 
as great, however, as some figures in the literature indicate. Thus roast 
pork was retained appreciably longer than roast beef in most instances. Pork 
chops required about the same period of gastric digestion as roast pork. Fried 
ham also required considerably longer to digest than roast beef. Minced 
ham showed a slight advantage over boiled ham as to evacuation time. Acid- 
ities were also more rapidly developed in the former instance. Roast beef 
was handled somewhat more quickly than either. 

Liver and bacon required about the same period of digestion as roast beef. 
In certain instances Uver and bacon were handled more readily than liver 
alone. In one case the contrary was found. Pork sausage was somewhat 
more easily handled than were pork chops but less readily than roast beef. 
Ham bologna required about the same time to digest as fried ham or as the 
less readily digestible beef steaks. The evacuation of bacon was found to be 
slow and low gastric acidities were developed. Ham sandwiches were more 
readily handled than other pork products tested. "Scrapple" left the stomach 
more slowly than pork sausage and belongs to the less readily evacuated pork 
products. Pigs' feet gave variable results but appear ordinarily to be handled 
more easily than pork chops. 

V 

The fifth paper gives the results obtained when lamb and lamb prod- 
ucts were studied in the same way as had been the case with beef and 
pork. The average evacuation time for the rapid-emptying stomach 
was 2 hours and 30 minutes, for the slow-emptying stomach, 3 hours and 
20 minutes. 

Roast lamb and lamb chops required practically the same period of gastric 
digestion and stewed lamb a little longer than the other two. Sheep brains 
left the stomach rather rapidly (2^ hours) and developed a lower acidity than 
the other meats. Lamb stimulated acid production fully as much as any other 
class of meats and apparently to a slightly greater extent than beef or pork. 
The average total acidity at the height of digestion was 134 (beef 120, pork 



30 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

117). On the average, roast lamb remained in the stomach a few minutes 
longer than roast beef but not as long as roast pork. 

VI 

The sixth paper presents the results of 90 studies on 18 different sub- 
jects, with eggs, using the same method. Two eggs (about 100 grams 
in case of hens' eggs) were fed in each instance. Rapid-emptying stom- 
achs required 2 hours and 15 minutes for evacuation, slow-emptying 
stomachs 3 hours and 5 minutes. The eggs produced less stimulation of 
gastric secretion (average high acidity, 80) than did meats. 

Raw egg white left the stomach much more rapidly than any other form of 
egg preparation. A moderate secretion of gastric juice was induced in subjects 
of a high acid type, but this did not become apparent until most of the egg 
white had left the stomach without being acted upon by the gastric juice. 
Egg white with 200 cc. of distilled water produced a more marked stimulation 
of acid secretion. Egg white with 200 cc. of orange juice led to a distinct 
gastric secretion and a rapid evacuation of the stomach. 

Raw egg yolk required much longer to leave the stomach than egg white 
and higher acidities were developed. Whole raw eggs resemble egg yolk in 
their response whether unmixed or strained through cloth, showing the same 
delayed evacuation and greater acid stimulation as compared with egg white. 
Raw eggs produced somewhat less stimulation of acid secretion than boiled 
eggs and remained longer in the stomach. Hard boiled eggs required on the 
average a few minutes longer for gastric digestion than soft boiled eggs but 
the acid response was similar in the two cases. 

Scrambled eggs required a little longer to leave the stomach than boiled 
eggs. Fried eggs were handled as readily as soft boiled eggs or any other type 
of cooked egg. Eggs scrambled or fried with a large excess of fat remained 
in the stomach a little longer, the difference being most marked with the 
rapid-emptying type of individual. The belief that fried or moderately greasy 
foods give the stomach appreciably more trouble than others was not supported 
by our findings. The response of the stomach to plain and Spanish omelets 
was found to be quite similar. Omelets remained in the stomach as long as 
scrambled eggs and longer than boiled eggs. Poached eggs, shirred eggs, and 
soft cooked eggs were found to be among the more readily digested forms of eggs. 

Eggs pickled in vinegar were digested in the same time as the hard boiled 
eggs from which they were prepared. Deviled eggs remained in the stomach 
a little longer than plain boiled eggs. The eggs of the duck and turkey are 
handled by the stomach in the same way as hens' eggs, evacuation being 
somewhat delayed in the case of turkey eggs due apparently to their greater 
bulk. The Chinese preserved egg called "pidan" gave rise to delayed and 



1921] HOME ECONOMICS EN RURAL BELGIUM 31 

low acid responses in the stomach as well as delayed evacuation. This may 
have been due in part to the unappetizing character of these eggs. 

Cold storage eggs (8 months), whether boiled or fried, could not be dis- 
tinguished from fresh eggs as far as the response of the stomach was con- 
cerned. The same was true of the mixed frozen eggs of commerce, whether 
these were scrambled or used in the baking of cakes. 

Eggs with milk, or egg-nog, leave the stomach a little more slowly than eggs 
alone, the egg albumin preventing the formation of indigestible curds in the 
stomach such as are likely to be formed with milk alone. Eggs with bread 
or French toast remained in the stomach a little longer than bread and butter 
alone but not longer than hard boiled eggs. Bacon and eggs were taken care 
of by the stomach almost as readily as fried eggs alone, while possessing a 
distinctly higher food value. Frizzled beef with scrambled eggs were digested 
as quickly as scrambled eggs alone. Eggs and meat appear therefore to form 
a desirable combination from the standpoint of gastric digestion. 

{To be concluded) 



HOME ECONOMICS TEACHING IN RUR.\L BELGIUM 

An article which M. Paul de Vuyst, the Minister of Agriculture in 
Belgium, has contributed to a recent number of "La Vie aux Champs" 
(]\Iay 10, 1920) summarizes the present teaching of home economics as 
a means of developing agriculture and rural life in Belgium. Aside from 
encouraging its extension in the general school system, the Ministry of 
Agriculture is including it in special schools and extension work intended 
for farm girls and women, where it is expected to increase the value of 
such farm products as are usually in charge of women, and also to improve 
living conditions on the farm. There are part time courses for women 
and girls, above compulsory school age, in movable schools, and (for 
special use in the devastated areas) a traveling caravan called "une 
roulotte" fitted up with classroom, dairy room, and experimental kitchen, 
as well as with living quarters for two instructors. Extension lectures 
and demonstrators are also to be pro\dded, and popular literature on 
home economics topics is to be prepared and published. The accom- 
panying cuts are from Dr. de Vuyst's article. 



32 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 




ROULOTTE SERVANT d'EcOLE M^NAG^RE AGRICOLE DANS LES REGIONS DEVAST^ES 



1 — ■*•: 






Q» 






-4 



j<>.ru..-| 


T 




P 


? 




.0.. 







(- 





n 











Q 


<iA <jc«>n.o*i 


1 




ftvM.otKii-^ 








T..;„. T..;„. f,..,. 




•f. ,•.'-, 



Plan de la Roulotte 



I 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE FOOD ECONOMY KITCHEN AND ITS VALUE IN THE 

COMMUNITY! 

MRS. HORATIO DRESSER 

National Civic Federation, Boston 

In all city market districts there is great food waste of fresh meat 
bones suitable for human food. The Boston markets alone have been 
sending fifty tons of fresh bones daily to the Tenderer, to be converted 
into fertilizer, glue, soap, and other commercial products, though the 
greater portion might be kept in condition to make a basis for soup to 
feed the Boston school children, while the fat from these same bones 
could be rendered and used for cooking purposes. 

These conditions were well known to the buyer for one of the large 
wholesale markets, a thoughtful, public-spirited man, who felt that 
some effort should be made to demonstrate better uses for this material 
and at the same time pro\'ide nourishing soups or stews for children. 

During the winter of 1917-1918, Mr. John Kelly, Mrs. Roland Baker, 
whom he had interested, and a group of volunteer women opened, at 
Morgan Memorial in Boston, a soup kitchen where soup, meat loaf, 
and fat were prepared and sold. 

Brisket bones were used for the soup stock. These bones are usually 
sold to Tenderers without cutting off the meat, between the ribs and the 
fat which lies at their base. The raw meat and fat cut from 250 pounds 
of bones, weighs about 70 pounds. Rice, barley, or macaroni, with 
carrots and onions, were added. The soup was sold at eight cents per 
quart. The fat saved was carefully clarified and sold for cooking pur- 
poses at twenty-two cents per pound. The meat was made into loaf, 
and sold for twenty cents per pound. Over twenty thousand rations 
of food and one thousand pounds of fat were saved during this initial 
winter season. Men, women, and children were given nourishing food 
at low cost — a concrete illustration of what could be done in food con- 

1 Presented at the Conference on Group Living, Lake Placid, N. Y., May, 1920. 



34 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

servation, the country over, if the public were awake to the opportunity 
and were willing to carry on the work. 

In the fall of 1918, the Home Economics Committee of the National 
Ci\dc Federation enlarged the scope of the kitchen work. Beside show- 
ing a good food use for these bones, the committee wished to provide 
a nourishing and well-balanced "meal in a dish" for Boston elementary 
school children's mid-morning luncheon. On the third floor of a cen- 
trally located building in the market district, equipment was installed 
for making seven hundred and fifty quarts of soup a day. Steam for 
cooking, brine for refrigerating were available. A regular staff of two 
cooks and a kitchen helper, with a dietitian and part-time secretary, 
comprised the salaried staff. A force of volunteer women, interested 
in solving the difficult problem of providing suitable luncheons for 
elementary school children, carried on the various responsibilities such 
as preparing vegetables, picking fat from cooked meat, and clarifying 
fat. This volunteer force also helped serve the soup in the schools. 

To make the "meal in a dish," shin bones bought with the meat on 
were added to the original formula for the Morgan Memorial soup. 
The meat on the brisket and shin bones was cooked separately, cut 
in small portions, and added to the stock. Either barley or macaroni 
provided the starch, and a generous proportion of onions and carrots 
was used. The result was a stew rather than a soup, with its caloric 
value a little over one thousand calories per quart. 

The Kitchen was opened at 24| North Street in January, 1918. Dur- 
ing the nineteen weeks from January 14 to May 31, 1919, soup was sent 
to eight schools in Boston, eight schools in Cambridge, and seven distrib- 
uting stations in the two cities. In some schools the soup was served 
to special classes only; in others, any child who wished to pay the stand- 
ard price of two cents per cup could buy at recess the seven ounce portion 
of soup. At the distributing stations, and at the Kitchen, soup was 
sold at ten cents per quart, and carried home in containers brought by 
the purchaser. 

The by-products also provided a source of revenue. The cooked 
bones were sold to the renderer, the clarified suet was sold for cooking 
purposes, and soap was made from trap grease. 

The encouraging response of the school committee and teachers was 
due to the definite results which they saw among the children served, 
not only gains in weight, but better mental reactions and better class 
room conduct. 



1921] THE ROLAND PARK COMMUNITY KITCHEN 35 

During the season from October, 1919, to April, 1920, the Kitchen con- 
fined its work to Boston schools, and gradually enlarged its scope until 
forty-three schools had been served in the greater Boston district. 

The school committee gave the National Civic Federation committee 
its cordial commendation and support, and expressed the hope that 
during another school year many additional schools might have the 
benefit of this mid-morning luncheon service. The experiment has 
passed into an established practice in elementary school education. 



THE ROLAND PARK COMMUNITY KITCHEN 

ALICE E. BAKER 

The motives actuating the establishment of the Roland Park Com- 
munity Kitchen are found in the following leading sentences from the 
first "Statement and Questionnaire" sent out to residents of Roland 
Park about September 1, 1919. "Domestic servants are difficult to 
obtain and hard to keep. ... If cooks caimot be hired, home- 
makers must take their place The average woman who 

undertakes this must reduce her outside activities to a minimum or be 
in a constant state of physical and mental fatigue Tra- 
ditional methods of preparing food in individual kitchens are wasteful 
and inefficient." 

Before sending this circular, the women in whose minds the idea had 
originated had obtained all the data available on the subject of central- 
ized kitchens, and had received encouraging reports from three existing 
ones. Their investigations had convinced them that the venture, if 
carried out at all, would be attended with many difficulties, not only 
those incident to any newly established business, but those arising from 
an attempt to cater to the prejudices of family tastes in food. FeeHng, 
however, that the need for what they proposed really existed, and that 
the conditions in Roland Park for establishing such a kitchen were in 
some respects unusually favorable, they sent out the above mentioned 
circular to learn whether an effort to organize a central kitchen there 
would meet with the approval of the community. Almost without ex- 
ception the replies, of which more than one hundred were received, agreed 



36 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

that some form of cooked food service would be a boon to the neighbor- 
hood, and the majority were in favor of a motor delivery of hot dinners. 

Some women who were not especially interested in the idea of a central 
kitchen expressed a wish for other forms of community cooperation, 
such as a central laundry and an agency for domestic helpers. To enlist 
the interest of all such women, the "Community Service Organization" 
was formed, with a permanent executive committee which was to inves- 
tigate what could be accomplished along these other lines and to push 
the kitchen project. Two addresses at the Woman's Club by JMrs. 
James A. Odell, of the Evanston (Illinois) Community Kitchen, aroused 
much enthusiasm from those who heard her, for the Evanston kitchen 
had all the patronage it could handle and was making money. It was 
resolved to imitate their methods as far as possible and to establish a 
shop for the sale of cooked food as well as to deliver hot dinners. The 
cash sale of food over the counter would help to utilize the full services 
of the employees and to defray the hea\y expense of delivering the 
dinners. Later, to further accomplish the same ends, it was decided to 
add lunch room service. 

The next steps were to secure a convenient central location for the 
kitchen and shop, a staff of employees, and sufficient capital to start the 
enterprise. Satisfactory quarters were found in the basement of the 
Upland Apartments at the terminus of the Roland Park car lines. Two 
young women with tea room experience were secured as joint managers 
and they found capable kitchen assistants. It had been decided to pro- 
vide the necessary capital by the formation of a stock corporation. 
Accordingly a circular letter was sent to residents of Roland Park and 
Guilford, setting forth what had been accomplished toward starting a 
kitchen, and soliciting subscriptions of stock in the " Community Kitchen 
Corporation." The par value was set at ten dollars a share, in order 
that every family in the community might be represented in the cor- 
poration and feel in consequence a personal interest in the success of 
the venture. Considering the number of appeals for money at this time 
the response to the letter was very gratifying, both in the promptness 
with which it was received and in the number of persons subscribing. 
By the first week in January the amount deemed necessary to start the 
kitchen had been received, and the stock company was formally incor- 
porated. 

Equipment for the kitchen and shop were then purchased, contracts 
were signed, and finally on January 29, 1920, the kitchen was formally 



1921] THE ROLAND PARK COMMUNITY KITCHEN 37 

opened with an afternoon tea and sale of food, to which stockholders 
only were invited. The next morning the shop opened its doors to the 
public, offering for sale soups, salads, sandwiches, croquettes, cold cooked 
meats, and bakery products. Luncheon was served from 11.30 a.m. to 
2.30 p.m., and afternoon tea from 3 to 5 p.m. It had been resolved to 
defer the delivery of hot dinners until the kitchen and shop were running 
smoothly, but dinners were packed in boxes to be carried home by the 
purchasers, and proved popular with many who found themselves in 
domestic straits. The first hot dinners were delivered about two months 
later, and the service has continued without intermission ever since. 
The business as a whole finds itself now upon a paying basis. 

This is the story of the beginnings of the Roland Park Community 
Kitchen. It has not been in existence long enough to have proved much, 
but some of its problems might be described for the benefit of others 
contemplating a like enterprise. Most of them have been mentioned 
by Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel in her article on "Public Kitchens," in the 
June number of the Journal. 

The success of the delivered dinners depends to a considerable degree 
on the kind of container used for them. It should be durable, attrac- 
tive, easily cleaned, and well insulated. The latest inventions in this 
line are, however, such an improvement on earlier ones that if commun- 
ity kitchens increase in number and create more of a demand for a per- 
fect container we have no doubt it will appear. 

The expense of delivering the dinners has already been alluded to. 
It forms an appalling item in the overhead, and makes necessary the sale 
of a considerable number of dinners before the cost of material and over- 
head is covered. For this reason such an adjunct as the lunch room or 
the food shop, conducted on a cash basis, is a necessity. 

The workers in the community kitchen will be besieged by comments 
on their efforts, both well-intentioned and otherwise. Diametrically op- 
posite criticisms of the same article of food will be repeatedly offered; 
so that the most they can hope for is to please, not all of the people all 
of the time, but some of the people some of the time. Care must be 
taken to have the food offered the best of its kind; i.e., prepared from 
fresh, wholesome materials, and cooked by experts. Then criticism 
will resolve itself into practical suggestions, to be gratefully received, 
and individual caprices, to be tactfully ignored. Complaint will proba- 
bly be made that the prices are too high, because women will insist on 
comparing the products of the community kitchen either with inferior 



SS THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

articles obtained elsewhere or with what has been cooked in their own 
homes. They make no allowance for time and trouble or for fuel and 
equipment used when the food is prepared at home The kitchen is 
neither a philanthropy nor a purely commercial venture, although it must 
be run on business principles. Selling prices must be so set as merely 
to cover the cost of materials and overhead and allow a safe margin. 
If this has been done, the only way to meet the complaint is to urge the 
complainant to make a careful estimate of the elements of expense that 
go to make up a finished article of food. 

The most serious problem is the securing of a proper manager for this 
compKcated business. She should have all the training necessary for 
running a successful tea room: she should know how to buy food judi- 
ciously and serve it attractively, to plan well balanced and therefore 
satisfying meals, to handle tactfully both her employees and the public, 
and to do accurately the bookkeeping necessary to show where the busi- 
ness stands financially. In addition, she should combine a knowledge 
of the tastes of the community with a salesman's faculty for creating a 
desire for what she has to sell. Such a combination of virtues is not 
easily found in one person. As an educative experience we commend 
the community kitchen to the graduate in home economics, and it 
would be well for anyone contemplating the management of such a 
kitchen to serve an apprenticeship in one of those already existing. 

In conclusion, I should like to say that, however great their problems 
have been and are, nothing in the experiences of the Roland Park Kitchen 
has shaken the faith of its founders in the conviction that the need for 
it exists, that the best methods of running such kitchens will gradually 
be worked out, and that some day — we shall not pretend to prophesy 
how soon — standard articles of cooked food will be as universally deliv- 
ered from central plants as gas and water now are. 



1921] COOPERATIVE MEAT MARKETING 39 

A SUGGESTION ON COOPERATIVE MEAT MARKETING 

JOHN H. KELLY, JR. 
Arthur Dorr Markets, Boston 

In the opinion of meat dealers of recognized ability the only way co- 
operative buying of meats could be successfully carried on would be 
through group buying, with the demand for a liberal discount, from the 
large retail markets, who would be glad to have the business, especially 
if the particular persons comprising the group would carry on a cash 
and carry business. 

People, at least those in the eastern part of this country, demand cer- 
tain cuts of meat to fit the particular purpose of the meal, i.e., we use 
steak cuts, roasting cuts, boiling cuts, and those for corning. The foreign 
people of our country are carrying on cooperative meat stores success- 
fully because, as a rule, they ask for no special cuts, very seldom using 
steaks or roasts as we are accustomed to do, but boiling or stewing their 
meats in their own native methods. 

The reason that group buying can be carried on better with large retail 
stores is that the buyers have a larger assortment from which to select. 
For example, in Boston some of the most popular steak cuts demanded 
are the first two cuts from the hip or rump. As there are only two 
first cuts and two second cuts to a steer and as the average small 
market would probably not have more than two steers a week, if 
any number of these cuts were demanded by the group buyers, the 
market would be unable to supply them. Some persons would be 
unable to get them and dissatisfaction would appear immediately, 
and eventually it would be disastrous to the entire group. From 
the large retail stores, on the other hand, group buying can be car- 
ried on with the greatest security and satisfaction for the reason that 
such a firm has the entire wholesale market from which to select the 
particular cuts that they use for retail and hotel supply trade; and, as it 
often takes an average of three hundred and fifty cattle per week for 
them to furnish these cuts, it is comparatively easy for them to supply 
a large number of any particular kind. 



40 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



FURS 

One reason that the misnaming of furs is so common and that no defi- 
nite legislation exists in this country against it lies in the fact that up to 
this time there has been no very sure way to identify with certainty the 
different commercial fur hairs. Dr. Leon Hausman of Cornell Univer- 
sity has outlined in The Scientific Monthly^ a method of identification 
with the microscope. With such knowledge available women should 
demand the protection which correct labeling would give. Dr. Hausman 
says: 

It is possible to remodel and rename furs; that is, so to clip, dye, and pull 
them, that their original appearance is altered to such an extent that they 
may be sold under names not their own. Furs so remodeled may be sold under 
the names of furs much superior in wearing quality or in warmth. 

Thus the pelts of animals from warmer zones, such as the woodchuck (mar- 
mot), opossum, Australian opossum, raccoon, weasel, Tartar pony, Man- 
churian dog, and certain monkeys, are worked up by fur dressers into articles 
but Uttle resembling their originals and sold under other names, usually under 
the names of animals of northern latitudes. Such furs are inferior to those 
from colder climates in suppleness and durability of leather, denseness and silki- 
ness of under- or fur-hair, fullness of over- or protective hair, and, because 
dyed, are brittle and less durable in general. One of the most durable of all 
furs is that of the sea otter (Latax lutris). Considering this to be represented 
by 100, the relative durability of some common furs, when used with the fur 
outside (not for Hnings), is as follows i^ 



species 



Durability 
(Otler=100) 



Beaver 90 

Bear, black or brown 94 

Chinchilla 15 

Ermine 25 

Fox, natural 40 

Fox, dyed 20-25 

Goat 15 

Hare 05 

Kolinsky 25 

Leopard 75 

Lynx 25 

Marten (skunk) 70 

Mink, natural 70 

Mink, dyed 35 

Mole 07 



Durability 
Species (Otter=W0) 

Muskrat 45 

Nutria (Coypu rat), 

plucked 25 

Otter, sea 100 

Otter, inland 100 

Opossum 37 

Rabbit 05 

Raccoon, natural 65 

Raccoon, dyed 50 

Sable 60 

Seal, hair 80 

Seal, fur 80 

Squirrel, gray 20-25 

Wolf 50 

Wolverene 100 



1921] FURS 41 

The following list^ gives some of the best known furs and their usual mis- 
nomers. 

Species Altered and sold as 

American sable Russian sable 

Fitch, dyed Sable 

Goat, dyed Bear, of various kinds 

Hare, dyed Sable or fox 

Kid Lamb 

Woodchuck (marmot), dyed Mink, sable, skunk 

Mink, dyed Sable 

Muskrat (musquash), dyed Mink, sable 

Muskrat (musquash), pulled and dyed Seal, electric seal, Hud- 
son Bay seal. Red 
River seal 
Nutria (Coypu rat), pulled and dyed Seal, electric seal, Hud- 
son Bay seal, Red 
River seal 

Nutria (Coypu rat), pulled, natural Beaver, otter 

Opossum, sheared and dyed Beaver 

Otter, pulled and dyed Seal of various kinds 

Rabbit, dyed Sable 

Rabbit, sheared and dyed Seal, electric seal, Hud- 
son Bay seal. Red 
River seal, mus- 
quash 

Rabbit, white Ermine 

Rabbit, white, dyed Chinchilla 

Kangaroo (wallaby), various species, dyed. . .Skunk (marten) 

Hare, white Fox 

Goat, dyed Leopard 

1 The Scientific Monthly, January 1920. 

2 Modified, from Peterson, "The Fur Trade and Fur Bearing Animals," Bufifalo, 1914. 

2 Modified from Jones, "Fur Farming in Canada." Canada Commission of Conserva- 
tion, Ottawa, 1914. 



EDITORIAL 

Concerning the International Conference. 

Office International De L'Enseignement Menager 

Fribourg, le 4 novembre, 1920. 
Editor of the Journal of Home Economics, 
Chere IMadame, 

En possession du No. d'octobre 1920 de votre remarquable publication, 
nous nous empressons de venir vous remercier de I'acceuil reserve et de la 
place accordee a notre lettre du 15 juin dernier. Merci egalement des deci- 
sions qui ont ete prises ainsi que de I'aimable comraentaire qui y a ete joint. 

Nous saisissons cette occasion pour vous demander instamment de faire 
tous vos efforts en vue de nous valoir de la part de vos compatriotes tous les 
subsides que notre cause merite, subsides qui est si difficile de recueillir dans 
un Europe que la guerre a si lamentablement eprouvee. 

Nous sommes en pleins travaux preparatoires de notre III™^ Congres inter- 
national et nous nous ferons un plaisir en meme temps qu' un devoir de vous 
communiquer les resultats de ces travaux preparatoires des leur definitive 
mise au point, qui ne saurait tarder. 

En vous remerciant encore veuillez agreer, chere Madame, les tres vives 
assurances de nos sentiments confraternels. 

Le Directeur, 

Leon Genoud. 

This letter seems so much more effective in its appeal than if it were 
rendered into English that the editor has forborne to use her skill in 
translating it. 

The Third International Congress of Home Economics Education 
will be held at Strasbourg, July 28-31, inclusive. 

WTiat can we do to help? 

The Fribourg ofl&ce of course wants as much official support as pos- 
sible. It has appealed to the Department of Agriculture for a subsidy, 
but the Secretary has been obliged to reply that, while the Department 
is interested in the subject of the Conference, it is not authorized to use 
funds for such a purpose. Mr. Genoud has been informed that this is 
always the attitude of our Government and that the poUcy in this coun- 
try is to leave such matters to private individuals. 

42 



I 



1921] EDITORIAL 43 

Is not this the special concern of the members of the American Plome 
Economics Association? Possibly the Association can increase its 
contribution. If not, there should be at least a hundred individual 
memberships subscribed for. It is understood that Edna White, the 
former president of the Association, will be able to represent us at the 
meeting. Any others who expect to be in Europe next year should 
plan to attend the Conference. 

Cooperative Enterprises. There is no economic problem that is 
of more immediate interest to the average consumer of today than that 
involved in the numerous cooperative schemes that are proposed, many 
of them tried, and some brought to a successful issue. Such experiments 
should be recorded fully, whether they be in cooperative buying, cooper- 
ative selling, community kitchen, or other community enterprises. 
DiflSculties and discouragements should receive at least as much recog- 
nition as successes. The Journal is glad to include such accounts as 
are given in this number, both for the encouragement and the warning 
of those embarking upon similar enterprises. We are glad also to note an 
experiment of a different type, really one form of cooperation, that is 
fostered by the University of Maryland Extension Service. 

Under present conditions in the wool market, growers are being 
offered prices ranging from 15 to 25 cents per pound for wool, with the 
result that thousands of pounds of raw product have been stored in 
warehouses and on farms since the slump in wool prices began. 

To meet this emergency and to move the wool crop of the state, 
arrangements have been made with a North Carolina woolen mill to 
take the raw wool from the farmer and convert it into either blankets or 
motor robes. 

The farmer will act as salesman for the finished product, selling it at 
actual cost and deriving his benefit from the plan by charging a fair 
price of 55 cents a pound for his wool. For every blanket that he sells, 
he will forward to the mill 10 pounds of wool. To have this wool 
cleaned, scoured, carded, dyed, spun, and woven into blankets will cost 
him $5.00. To this will be added the carrying charges, amounting to 
75 cents, and $5.50 representing the cost of the 10 pounds of wool at 
55 cents a pound. The completed blanket wiU be sold for $11.25 and 
the motor robes for $8.75. Both products will be all-wool with the 
exception of a small quantity of cotton which is used in the warp to 
add strength. 

We shaU watch with interest the working out of this scheme. 



44 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Current Periodical Literature 
compiled by margaret norton 

Maple Sugar in Colonial Times. L. R. Grose, Anier. Forestry, Nov. 1920. 

Botulism. Ernest C. Dickson. Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, Nov. 1920. 

Comparison of the Bacterial Counts from Machine and Hand Washed Dishes and Their 
Significance. Roy S. Dearst>ne, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, Nov. 1920. 

Future of the Cotton Industry. JMelvin T. Copeland, Atlantic Mo., Nov. 1920. 

Digestibility of Germinated Beans. Dorothy M. Adkins, Biochem. Jour., Oct. 1920. 

An Experimental Study of the Effect of Certain Organic and Inorganic Substances on the 
Bread flaking Properties of Flour and on the Fermentation of Yeast. Helen Master and 
Margery Manghan, Biochem. Jour, Oct. 1920. 

Nutritive Value of Animal and Vegetable Oils and Fats Considered in Relation to Their 
Color. Jack C. Drummond and Katherine H. Coward, Biochem. Jour., Oct. 1920. 

Nuts as a Source of Vitamine A. Katherine H. Coward and Jack Drummond, Biochem. 
Jour., Oct. 1920. 

Oxidizing Enz>Tr.es of Some Common Fruits. M. W. Onslow, Sz'oc/tew. Jour., Oct. 1920. 

Technique for Carrying Out Feeding Tests for Vitamine A (Fat-soluble A). Jack C. 
Drummond and Katherine H. Coward. Biochem. Joiir., Oct. 1920. 

Chemistry and the Food Industry. Carl Alsberg, Chem. and Metallur. Engin., Nov. 24. 
1920. 

Glandular Organs as Articles of Diet. Editorial, Joiir. Amer. Med. Assn., Oct. 30, 1920. 

Nutritive Value of Nuts. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., Oct. 30, 1920. 

An Unsuspected Occasional ^Menace in Low Protein Diets. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assn., Nov. 20, 1920. 

A Deficiency in Heat Treated Milks. Amy L. Daniels and Rosemary Loughlin. Jour. 
Biol. Chem., Nov. 1920. 

Experiments on Carbohydrate Metabolism and Diabetes. HI. The Permeability of 
Blood Corpuscles to Sugar. Mary B. Wishart, Jour. Biol. Chem., Nov. 1920. 

Some Amino Acids from the Globulin of the Coconut as Determined by the Butyl Alcohol 
Extraction Method of Dakin. D. B. Jones and C. O. Johns, Jour. Biol. Chem., Nov. 1920. 

Some Effects of Water-Soluble Vitamine upon Nutrition. Walter G. Karr, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., Nov. 1920. 

A Test for .\ntiberi-beri Vitamine and Its Practical Application. Casimir Funk and H. E. 
Dubin, Jour. Biol. Chem., Nov. 1920. 

Rivab-y between Sugar Beets and Sugar Cane. Ellsworth Huntington and S. W. Gush- 
ing, Jour. Geography, Oct. 1920. 

Changes in the Polarizing Constants of Sugars during Refining. A. F. Blake, Jour. 
Indus, arui Engin. Chem., Nov. 1920. 

Hygroscopic Moisture of Flour Exposed to Atmospheres of Different Relative Humidity. 
C. H. Bailey, Jour. Itidus. and Engin. Chem., Nov. 1920. 

Sugar Industry of France since the War. T. H. ISIurphy, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 
Nov. 1920. 

Agronomists' Part in the World's Food Supply. F. S. Harris, Science, Oct. 29, 1920. 

On the Protein Content of WTieat. W. F. Cericke, Science, Nov. 5, 1920. 

Vitamine Requirements of the Rat on Diets Rich in Protein, Carbohydrate, and Fat, 
Respectively. Casimir T. Funk and H. E. Dubin, Science, Nov. 5, 1920. 

California's Seaweed Industry (Agar-Agar). J. L. Von Blon, Sci. Amer., Oct. 30, 1920. 

California's Citrus Fruit Industry. R. G. Skerrett, Sci. Amer. Mo., Nov. 1920. 

Humbler Relatives of the Oyster. May Tevis, Sci. Amer. Mo., Nov. 1920. 

Salt Industry of China. Herbert T. Wade, Sci. Amer. Mo., Nov. 1920. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Chair of Home Economics in the 
Constantinople College for Girls. Con- 
tributions to the Constantinople Fund are 
still coming in from home economics de- 
partments in normal schools, colleges, and 
universities. With the amounts thit have 
been pledged and sent in during the last 
few weeks, the fund has not only reached 
but exceeded $6000, and the Trustees of 
Constantinople College have appointed a 
director for the department. 

From those recommended by the Com- 
mittee of the American Home Economics 
Association, Mrs. Alice P. Norton has been 
selected as being the one who best fitted 
into Constantinople College conditions: first, 
because of her classical education; second, 
her long practical experience as a mother; 
third, her subsequent training in home 
economics work; and, fourth, her practical 
experience in educational work. The Trus- 
tees of the College felt that she could bring 
to the Constantinople position an under- 
standing of their classical standards and 
thereby develop a s}Tnpathy between their 
older type of classical education and the 
new science and applied science that they 
are just beginning to develop. Also, the 
fact that she has been a wife and mother 
would give her added prestige in meeting 
the situation in Turkey where the unmarried 
woman is always at a disadvantage. 

Mrs. Norton has been given leave of 
absence from the editorship of the Journal 
She is leaving earlier than she had planned, 
taking a January boat so that she may co- 
operate in a study that is to be made to 
remedy the unsanitary and crowded con- 
dition of Constantinople due to the influx 
of refugees from Russia. 

Abby L. Marlatt. 



Conference of Extension Specialists 
in Clothing. The first country-wide con- 
ference of subject-matter specialists ever 
authorized by the Extension Committee of 
the Association of Land Grant Colleges 
was the conference of clothing extension 
specialists held at Iowa State College, No- 
vember 8 to 13, 1920. Twenty-sLx of the 
thirty-three northern and western states 
were represented by at least one worker. 
Those attending included nineteen clothing 
extension specialists; twelve state home dem- 
onstration leaders; three assistant state 
leaders; two assistant state club leaders; 
state-wide workers in foods, in household 
management, and in general home econom- 
ics; the head of the work in clothing and 
textiles in a neighboring state university; 
and four representatives of the States Rela- 
tions Service. 

The conference was called to make pos- 
sible an exchange of experience as to field 
problems and methods and a study of the 
extension organization with a view to learn- 
ing to work through it to the best advantage. 
The program included such topics as the 
use of home demonstrators, training of 
local leaders, records and reports, farm 
bureau organization, the contribution of the 
specialist to club work, clothing work at 
county and state fairs, cooperative buying, 
the place of the survey in the clothing pro- 
ject, and training for the newly appointed 
specialist. 

Demonstrations included the hygiene 
factor in the clothing project (showing the 
importance to health of properly fitting 
corsets); standardizing clothing construc- 
tion operations; selection and arrangement 
of pictures and furniture; and selection of 
clothing for the girl of high school age, this 
last in the form of a playlet. 



45 



46 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



The following committees were appointed : 
General Advisory Committee, Committee 
on Contracts, Committee on Records, Com- 
mittee on Boys' and Girls' Club Work. 

The Agricultural Extension Department 
and the School of Home Economics of Iowa 
State College acted as hosts of the confer- 
ence, and visiting delegates will long remem- 
ber their gracious welcome and their unflag- 
ging hospitality. 

Reaching the Public at a State Fair. 
The Vocational and State Supervisor of 
Home Economics in Louisiana, Cleora C. 
Helbing, and her assistant, Clyde Mobley, 
in cooperation with the State Department 
of Education and Home Economics Depart- 
ments of State Institutions, recently con- 
ducted a demonstration at the Louisiana 
State Fair for the purpose of promoting and 
introducing hot school lunches into the 
schools throughout the state. 

A well-screened and sanitary kitchen was 
fully equipped through the courtesy of local 
firms and agencies, and the various home 
economics departments carried on practical 
demonstrations in preparing and serving, at 
cost, hot lunches such as might be served in 
any high school. In additon to work done 
by college and normal students, one of the 
state high schools conducted a creditable 
demonstration, exemplifying the type of 
training that high school girls were receiving. 

Appropriate posters, prepared by the State 
Department of Home Economics, were sup- 
plemented by posters, food charts, and menus 
from the various home economics depart- 
ments. 

Lunch was served each day to many vis- 
itors attending the Fair, while the kitchen 
was open throughout the day. 

These demonstrations did more to arouse 
the people of Louisiana to see the need of 
wholesome food for children than anything 
else presented in the state, while the work 
in home economics education now in prog- 
ress was given a great impetus. 

Conference and Dedication of Wom- 
en's Dormitory at the Massachusetts 
Agricultural College. On October 7 and 



8 there was held at the Massachusetts Agri- 
cultural College in Amherst, a Conference 
on Women in Agriculture and Country 
Life. 

The conference was of interest and value 
to any woman who is interested in agricul- 
ture, whether she intends to take an agri- 
cultural position, farm on a large scale, or 
use but a small piece of land for profit or 
pleasure; and to any country dweller, man 
or woman, who likes country life, and wants 
to know how to make it most worth the 
living. Women, who are actively engaged 
in some phase of agriculture, and other 
speakers of national repute gave practical 
help as well as inspiration. Mrs. Francis 
King, President of the National Farm and 
Garden Association, spoke of the agricul- 
tural opportunities which are open to women. 
Mr. C. J. Galpin of Washington, D. C, dis- 
cussed the Transition from Family to Com- 
munity Regime in Rural Life. 

Nettie C. Burleigh, Wonheim Farm, 
Waterville, Me., and Margaretta V. Land- 
mann, Forsgate Farms, Prospect Plains, 
N. J., told of their personal experiences in 
agriculture. Miss Burleigh does her own 
farm work, specializing in poultry, pigs, and 
dairy cattle. Miss Landmann has been 
engaged in several kinds of agricultural 
work, and is now manager of an experimental 
seed farm. Edna Cutter of Dracut, ]\Iass., 
who runs a dairy farm and is also agricul- 
tural adviser for a good many private estates, 
conducted a round table discussion. 

The dedication exercises of the new dor- 
mitory for women took place at the same 
time, with greetings from the representatives 
of all New England colleges which admit 
women. The dedicatory address was given 
by Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean Emeritus, 
Simmons College, Boston. The President 
of th; Board of Trustees of the Massachu- 
setts Agricultural College presented the keys 
of the new building to President Butter- 
field who acknowledged them and passed 
them over to Miss Skinner in charge of 
home economics and adviser of women. 
The name of the new dormitory, offered 
by several of those who entered the con- 



1921J 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



47 



test to suggest it, was announced by Miss 
Skinner as Abigail Adams. 

The dormitory, accommodating a hun- 
dred women, is very attractive, both without 
and within. On the north and west there 
are views of the Green Mountain foothills 
we t of the Connecticut River, while on the 
west and south of the building a wooded 
hillside makes a beautiful outlook. The 
living rooms are to be furnished attractively 
by the Massachusetts women of the New 
England Branch of the Farm and Garden 
Association. The present girl students were 
in attendance to act as hostesses and to show 
the guests about the building and campus. 

A Household Arts Exhibit, given at the 
State Normal School, Cheney, Washington, 
Blanche W. Stevens, Director, included 
garments and problems made by the fourth, 
fifth, sixth, and eighth grades during the 
quarter. 

A table was covered with exquisite art 
needle work, and a dainty layette. A tail- 
ored suit, made by a member of the house- 
keepers' class in sewing, was shown, proving 
that women can become expert in tailoring. 
Hats costing from $2.38 and up were shown, 
though many of them could not have been 
purchased for $18 to $20 in Spokane shops. 

The fabric judging contest was of especial 
interest to the many people who visited the 
household arts department. 

Washington Home Economics Associ- 
ation. The annual meeting of the Wash- 
ington Home Economics Association was 
held in Yakima, October 28, during the 
meeting of the Washington Educational 
Association. The following program was 
given: What Home Economics Can Do to 
Help the Under-nourished Child, Martha 
Koehne, formerly of Johns Hopkins Univer- 
sity; Benefits Derived from Affiliation with 
the Federation of Women's Clubs, Mrs. 
Gawler of Yakima; The Field for Educational 
Directors in Retail Stores, Isabel Bacon of 
the Federal Board for Vocational Education. 

Edna Waples, Supervisor of Home Eco- 
nomics, Bellingham, displayed a garment 
made of sugar sacks to show how the Home 



Economics Department in Bellingham had 
cooperated with the national thrift move- 
ment. 

The following ofi&cers were elected for the 
ensuing year: President, Florence Harrison, 
Dean of Home Economics, Washington State 
Agricultural College; Secretary and Treas- 
urer, Mildred French, Supervisor of Home 
Economics, Spokane, Washington. 

Iowa Home Economics Association. 
At the state meeting of the Iowa Home Eco- 
nomics Association in Des Moines, Novem- 
ber 4 and 5, 1920, interesting discussions of 
teaching problems followed addresses by 
Mabel Trilling, University of Chicago, on 
Standardizing Home Economics Courses; 
Neale Knowles, Extension Department, 
Iowa State College; Lola Yerkes, Iowa 
State University; Professor Baldwin, Head 
of Department of Child Welfare, Iowa State 
University, and others. 

University of Chicago. Inez Boyce, a 
graduate of the University of Wisconsin and 
for the past three years Director of the De- 
partment of Home Economics of the Illinois 
State Normal School, DeKalb, Illinois, has 
been appointed instructor in home econom- 
ics. IVIiss Boyce has charge of the method 
courses and the direction of the practice 
teaching in food and household management. 

Jane Hyde, who has charge of the home 
economics courses in the University Elemen- 
tary and in the High School, succeeds Rosa 
Biery, now Mrs. Lawrence Andrews of 
Pittsburgh. Miss Hyde is a graduate of 
Columbia University and during the past 
two years has been teaching in the Deerfield- 
Shields High School of Lake Bluff, Illinois. 

Dr. Chi Che Wang, until recently an in- 
structor in Home Economics (food chem- 
istry and nutrition), is now head chemist 
at Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago. Dr. 
W^ang's work consists of the supervision or 
performance of the analyses necessary in the 
treatment of diabetic, nephritis, and cancer 
cases, thyroid diseases, digestive disturb- 
ances, and others. She will also direct 
research in this field. 

Fellowships for the year 1920-21 have 



48 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



been awarded as follows: Marie Dye who 
has her bachelor's and master's degrees from 
the University of Chicago is working toward 
her doctorate in nutrition. Adah Hess, B.S. 
Teachers College, Columbia University, is 
working toward her master's degree in home 
economics education. 



Aima R. Van Meter has been appointed 
Assistant Director, Bureau of Nutrition 
Service of the American Red Cross and took 
up her work in Washington early in Novem- 
ber. Miss Van Meter was formerly Pro- 
fessor of Home Economics at Ohio State 
University and was acting head of the de- 
partment last semester. She has lately been 
engaged in a piece of work in Detroit under 
the joint auspices of the Merrill-Palmer 
School, of which Edna N. ^Miite is director, 
and the Detroit Chapter of the Red Cross. 

Faith R. Lanman, former^ professor in 
charge of Home Economics Extension, Ohio 
State University, has been appointed as 
head of the Department of Home Economics 
in the same university. 

Geraldine Hadley has been appointed 
head of the home economics department at 
Bradley Polytechnic Institute to succeed 
Helen M. Day who has gone to California. 

Moilie Noble has returned to New Zea- 
land after spending the summer observing 
and studying home economics in the United 
States, especially at the University of Wash- 
ington, Seattle. Miss Noble was sent to 
this country by the Auckland Education 
Board. 

A letter from Miss M. E. Roberts, in 
charge of Women's Handicraft Branch, 



Technical Education Division of the Aus- 
tralian Department of Education, Sydney, 
Australia, shows that home economics is 
making very definite progress in that coun- 
try'. Miss Roberts made particular inquiry 
regarding available educational text books 
in home economics, and the International 
Committee of the American Home Econom- 
ics Association was of service in sending 
information to her. 

Louise G. Turner, formerly State Super- 
visor of Home Economics in Tennessee, is 
now Associate Professor of Vocational 
Teacher Training, at Pennsylvania State 
College. 

Treva E. Kaufifman has resigned from her 
position as Assistant Professor of Home 
Economics, Ohio State University, and State 
Super\asor of Vocational Home Economics, 
State Board of Education, to accept the 
position of State Supervisor of Home Eco- 
nomics with the University of the State of 
New York at Albany. Miss Kauffman was 
connected with Ohio State University for 
seven years. She developed the school 
lunch work in the small schools of Ohio, 
organized the girls' club work, and later 
organized the teachers' training and field 
work in home economics under the Smith 
Hughes Law. 

.An intensive course in administration of 
vocational education will be given at Teach- 
ers College, Columbia University, January 
26 to February 23, 1921. 

The Vocational Education Association of 
the Middle West will hold its next annual 
convention in ^Minneapolis, Miimesota, Feb- 
ruary 10 to 12, 1921. 



The Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, in connection with 
the Division of Superintendence, N. E. A., will be held in Atlantic City, February 28, and 
March 1, following a meeting of the National Society for Vocational Education, February 
24 to 26. The program is based on the problems of the home economics teacher in the 
elementary and high schools. Further details will be printed in the February Journal. 

The meetings wiU be held in the Hotel Dennis. The Convention Bureau of Atlantic 
City will send, on application, a pamphlet giving full information concerning hotel rates. 



Vol. XIII, No. 2 February, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, - 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Auce P. Norton, Editor Ketdrah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mart H. Ahkl C. F. Lancworthy Amy Daniels Ruth Wheeler Violet Rylev 

Ex-Qfficio M embers~M Ati\ E. Sweeny, President American Home Economics Association 
NoLA Treat, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton, Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Lillian Peek, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Contribution of European Experience on Low Diets to Our Teaching of Dietetics 

Agnes Fay Morgan 49 

The High Sciioor. C.ajeteria as a Home Economics Project . . . Bernice Frances Dodge 54 

Gastric Response 'TO Foods (Concluded) Minna Denton 58 

The Food of the Immigrant in Relation to Health (Concluded) 

Michael M. Davis, Jr., and Bertha M. Wood 66 

For tee Homemaker ^ 

Practical Budget Accounting Maurice Le Bosquet 75 

Some "Don'ts" for the Consumer of Gas 80 

More Facts About the Farm Woman 81 

Clean Restaurants 82 

Editorial 83 

Open Forum 84 

Question Box 87 

Books and Literature 89 

Bibliography of Home Economics 92 

News from the Field 95 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 
• $2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take eflect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Thi Journal op Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's. Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg'i, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEUENTS 



LUJ-^^bM- 




jLAi-l..li,L.i'i.'-i-L-«; 



vX 







THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 

Your biscuits, rolls, gems and otlier dainty 
bread-stuffs can be no better than the bak- 
ing powder with which they are made. 
Good baking powder is the leavening agent 
that makes them light and digestible. It is 
the keystone in the making of appetizing, 
wholesome cake, biscuits, muffins, etc. 

Of course, you want only the best of bak- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when vou use 



ROYAL 
Baking Powder 



Made from 

Cream of Tartar 

derived ^om 

Grapes 

CONTAINS 

NO 

ALUM 



-^:rc^ 



'<my 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIII FEBRUARY, 1921 No. 2 

THE CONTRIBUTION OF EUROPEAN EXPERIENCE ON LOW 
DIETS TO OUR TEACHING OF DIETETICS^ 

AGNES FAY MORGAN 
Deparimenl of Household Science, University of California 

It may even yet be too soon to attempt to draw together the teaching 
of the recent vast experiment in Europe upon the nutrition of man. 
War diet in practically every country in Europe whether belligerent or 
neutral, meant an insufficient and in most cases, a one-sided diet. WTien 
such a diet is followed faithfully perforce by several million subjects for 
four years or more, some general consistent results should be observable, 
and should be available in the scientific literature. General agreement 
by observers may be said to have been reached on a number of points, but 
striking discrepancies are evident in the observations and conclusions of 
competent men upon other equally important details. A brief resume 
of the recorded data may therefore prove of some value. 

Kinds of evidence. There are two varieties of data upon the under- 
nutrition of the war, as upon other biological questions, the statistical or 
clinical and the experimental types. The first of these is presented in 
the reports of physicians, orphan asylums, and other institutions, hos- 
pitals, prison and army camps, state food or health bureaus. The sec- 
ond is the result of the activity of research laboratories in Europe and 
America. Both kinds of evidence must be considered in any review of 
this sort, although the statistical type far exceeds the experimental in 
quantity and variety. 

1 Presented at the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Colorado Springs, June, 1920. 

49 



50 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



Some of the statements published early in the course of the war are 
somewhat at variance with those recorded later, and also those which 
have appeared since the close of the war. Military and political policy 
may account for these differences, and economic need for the great in- 
crease in number and the pathos of the reports emanating from central 
Europe after the armistice was signed. 

General underfeeding, that is, deficiency in quantity of food, must 
here be considered separately from specific qualitative deficiencies in the 
war diet, even though in fact both these factors of inadequacy were usu- 
ally present at the same time. It is indeed difi&cult to judge whether 
the cause of such a symptom, for example, as the widely occurring inani- 
tion edema should be classified under the one or the other or both of 
these deficiency factors. 

Inadequate energy content of war diet. The largest number of observa- 
tions of the caloric value of the war diet was made by German investi- 
gations. N. Zuntz and A. Loewy of Berlin, and later Loewy with other 
collaborators have recorded exact data on this point for each year of the 
war beginning in 1916. Pfaundler made similar observations in Munich, 
and Durig in Vienna. 

The content of the war ration. Pfaundler (1) gave the civilian ration, 
in Munich in October, 1917, as follows: for adults, protein 56.7 gms., 
fat 30.3 gms., carbohydrate 308 gms., yielding a total of 1760 calories, 
and made up of bread, meat, milk, potatoes, sugar, cheese, eggs, butter, 
and grits. Children in the second year were given the adult ration plus 
1000 cc. of milk, in the third and fourth years the adult rations plus 500 
cc. of milk, and in the fifth and sixth years the adult ration plus 250 cc. 
of milk. After the sixth year children were given the adult ration alone. 
Pfaundler draws the following comparison of these allowances with what 
he believes to be the true requirement: 



1 to 3 months. .. . 
4 to 12 months. . . 

2nd year 

3rd and 4th years 
5th and 6th years 
6 to 16 years 



proper ration 
(pfaundler) 


MimiCH RATION 
(OCT. 1917J 


calories per day 


calories per day 


— 


943 


— 


1133 


1550 


2410 


1550 


2082 


2070 


1920 


2070 


1760 



1921] EUROPEAN EXPERIENCE ON LOW DIETS 51 

This ration was noted as unaltered in January, 1918. 

A little earlier Pfaundler (2) had stated that some advantage seemed 
to accrue to children between the ages of 2 and 6 years, from this unusu- 
ally generous diet, in warding off hereditary taint, spasmophilia and sim- 
ilar diatheses. 

Jansen (3), from F. Miiller's clinic in Munich, gave the ration in 
effect in the spring of 1917 as yielding 1600 calories and about 60 gms. 
of protein. 

Loewy (4) stated that the daily ration in Berlin in April, 1916, yielded 
an average of 2320 calories, and 68.3 gms. of protein; in July, 1916, 2230 
calories and 66.7 gms. of protein; and in April, 1917, 1985 calories and 
59.9 gms. of protein. Loewy and Brahm (5) in 1917, made a study of 
the food eaten daily by nine members of the Berlin garrison, doing light 
work, and found it to have a fuel value of only 1400 to 1800 calories, 
and 25 to 50 gms. of protein. They state that toward the end of the 
war the poorer people in Berlin had less than 2000 calories and 50 gms. 
of protein. Seventy per cent or more of the calories were derived from 
carbohydrate. The chief complaint made by Rubner (6) concerning 
the food situation in Germany, following the armistice, was with refer- 
ence to the low protein content of the ration. He says that bread and 
potato do not restore depleted muscle, and for this is roundly scored by 
Hindhede (7) who considered these foods protein sources of high value. 

A number of statements are available as to the English civilian ration. 
The compulsory ration early in 1918, according to the London letter to 
the Journal of the American Medical Association (8), contained Ij 
pounds of meat, 4 oz. of butter or margarine, 8 oz. of sugar per week. 
Other foods such as bread and fish were not rationed, but milk was ob- 
tainable only for children, nursing mothers, and the sick. Cream was 
not allowed for any one. According to Waller (9) this restricted war 
ration in 1918 yielded 1977 calories, sufficient energy content for his 
own needs, a sedentary worker whose weight had declined from 190 to 
175 lbs. during the third war year. 

The EngHsh ration was apportioned per "head" of population, that is, 
0.75 of the man value of the calculated need. The "man" value of diets 
was revised by the Inter AUied Food Commission to a more generous 
proportion than that de\'ised by Atwater. Greenwood and Thompson 
(10) compared these standards as follows: 



52 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



ATWATER S COEFFICIENTS 



NEW CO-EFFICIENT OF INTERALLIED FOOD COMMISSION 



Ages in years 



0-5 

6-9 

10-13 

j^.- (Males 

\Females 

/Males.. 
16 and over < _ , 
(Females 

All children average . . 



Man 
value 



Ages in years 



0.4 
0.5 
0.6 
0.8 
0.7 
1.0 
0.8 



0-5 

6-9 

,, , /Males... 

11 and over< „ , 
1^ Females 



0.51 



All children, combined ages aver- 
aged for the population 



Man 
value 



0.4 
0.7 
1 
0.83 



0.68 



This more generous food allowance for children is in accord with the 
later work of Dubois and others (11) and of Gephart (12) on the extra- 
ordinarily high energy output of young boys, and with the summaries of 
food requirements of children recently published by Talbot (13) and by 
Lusk (14). 

The Inter Allied Scientific Food Commission in 1918 adopted the 
following averages as representing the energy output of adults: 



Sedentary work 
Average work. . 
Heavy work 




2500 
3000 
3900 



The average diet of 3000 calories was expected to contain a minimum 
of 52 to 70 gms. of protein, 75 gms. of fat, and 500 gms. of carbohydrate. 

The Belgian ration in 1917, according to Herbert C. Hoover (15) con- 
tained 60 gms. of protein, 40 gms. of fat, and 300 gms. of carbohydrate 
with a total of 1800 calories. Upon this amount of food large numbers 
of people lived and worked apparently with little ill effect. He reports 
that the public health was maintained and that an actual decrease in 
mortality resulted. 

Loss of body weight. The most obvious result of the quantitatively 
inadequate diet was the rapid and continual loss of body weight. As 
early as 1916, Zuntz and Loewy (16) reported losses of their own body 
weight of 10 to 12 per cent. Stationary weight was reached at some such 
point because of resulting adjustment of metabolism at the new level 



1921] EUROPEAN EXPERIENCE ON LOW DIETS 53 

to the lowered energy intake. Durig (17) reports losses of as much as 
80 lbs. in adults in Vienna, and the majority of the population of that 
city were said by December, 1919, to have lost fully 15 per cent of body 
weight (18). 

Loss of weight and failure to grow normally was even more apparent 
among children. In the third war-year, G. Fuhge (19) made a study of 
the food intake and growth of children 6 to 14 years old in an orphanage 
in Berlin, and found a considerably retarded growth, serious under 
weight, and constant nitrogen loss in nearly all cases. Young babies 
among the poor of Austria (18) even now are reported as 5 to 20 per cent 
below normal in weight. Pfaundler (20) has recently noted a curious 
leveling of weight among the children of various social strata in Munich. 
Six year old children, in the period betwen 1914 and 1919, showed an 
average decrease in height of 3 cm. and in weight of 1 kg. below the nor- 
mal. Since this decrease was greater among children of the professional 
than the poorer families, the effect of the war seems to tend toward a 
leveling of the classes from the somatic as well as political and economic 
viewpoints. 

From Prague, Pollak (21) reported the average daily gain in weight 
of a certain group of children from 1913 to 1917 as decreasing from 20.6 
to 10.8 gms. At the same time the mortality in this group increased 
from 4 to 15 per cent. 

There is nothmg surprising about these statements concerning loss of 
body weight following underfeeding, and they are referred to here merely 
because of the continual references to the fact in the medical literature. 
The persistent opinion, held by many persons whom one would expect 
to be better informed, that food intake and body weight are not neces- 
sarily closely related can best be answered by reference to this gigantic 
Banting experiment in Europe. A short time ago a visiting professor 
from Poland laughed incredulously in my hearing at a statement that 
body weight might be reduced according to a pre-arranged rate by 
regulation of food ingestion. The next moment, apparently without 
realization of the inconsistency, this same professor began a moving 
story of the emaciation of his compatriots resulting from war under- 
feeding. 

{To be co7ickided) 



54 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

THE HIGH SCHOOL CAFETERIA AS A HOME ECONOMICS 

PROJECT 

BERNICE FRANCES DODGE 
The University of Wisconsin 

A superintendent, in telling proudly of the work of his school, recently 
said that the cooking classes in his high school served luncheon every 
day to two hundred children, and that they served, not just one hot dish, 
but a complete meal, including sandwiches and ice cream. He was 
somewhat surprised to be told that home economics people did not 
consider making sandwiches and dishing ice cream every day to be of 
educative value, and that in conducting so large an enterprise there was 
grave danger of exploiting the children instead of educating them. If 
the size of the undertaking is not a criterion of its worth, just where 
do we find its value? Can a high school cafeteria be so conducted as to 
have a rightful place in our course of study? 

In every high school there are some boys and girls who can not go 
home for the noon hour, and in many of the smaller schools no provision 
is made for these children. They bring lunch boxes from home, or buy 
cookies and sweet chocolate at the comer grocery, and eat a cold luncheon 
every day. In such a situation, the cooking teacher recognizes a respon- 
sibility which belongs specifically to her field of servdce, and an oppor- 
tunity to make the influence of her department felt throughout the whole 
school, in better health and better food habits. What these children eat 
in school at noon, and where and how they eat it, are questions which 
intimately concern the food department of any school. 

We found this situation in Wisconsin University High School a year 
ago. The plan which we have tried there may be of interest to other 
teachers who are finding similar conditions, and may serve to show how 
the work can be organized as a project with distinct educational value. 

It was not difiicult to show the girls in one of the cooking classes that 
this would be an interesting piece of work for the winter months, and 
an opportunity to be of real ser^'ice to the school. From their very 
simple study of nutrition, they could see that a hot dish, to supplement 
the food brought from home, would be highly desirable to maintain the 
best possible physical condition in these children, and that an attractive, 
comfortable place in which to eat would be conducive both to good 
digestion and good table manners. To organize the work intelligently 
and to carry it out efiiciently required a preliminary study of the various 



1921] THE HIGH SCHOOL CAFETERIA 55 

lines of work involved. Since this was an elementary class, we needed 
first of all to learn to cook some suitable dishes, so we had a series of 
lessons on cream soups, cocoa, egg dishes, baked hash, bread pudding, 
and other dishes which we believed would be good for the children and 
also popular with them. In connection with these lessons, the girls 
worked out the large-quantity recipes, with costs, to file away ready 
for use later. They also studied what foods should be brought from 
home to eat with the hot dish, to make well rounded meals, and planned 
posters for the main bulletin board for the purpose of educating their 
prospective customers. 

Working out costs brought up the question of finances. We decided 
not to try to make a profit, since this was not intended as a money 
making enterprise, but rather as a bit of social service, and we wanted 
to keep the food within reach of the ones who would need it most. An 
average of the costs showed that a flat rate of five cents per serving would 
cover the cost of the food. By making a little study of marketing, we 
found that careful buying would save money. We also had to learn 
how to keep accounts, since any one who handles other people's money 
must necessarily know where every cent goes. We found that by 
multiplying five cents by the average number of servings per week, and 
allowing ourselves that sum, we could budget the money in such a way 
as to be sure not to run in debt. 

Then we came to the important consideration of organizing the w^ork. 
We decided that a committee of three was the best size to handle it; 
so the class was divided into groups of three, and each group elected 
its chairman. We discussed the duties of the chairman and the com- 
mittee members, what real leadership involves, and what sincere cooper- 
ation means. Then committee number one had a meeting to plan the 
dishes for the first week, the posters for the main bulletin board, the 
market order, and their individual duties. They started the account 
book, which was to be balanced and signed at the end of the week, and 
handed over to the next committee; and they arranged the large equip- 
ment where it would be conveniently near the stove, sink, and table 
which were set apart for their special use. They decided where to have 
the line of customers pass, and how they wished these customers to 
rinse and stack their dirty dishes, in order to make dish-washing as easy 
as possible for the committee. Then they went off to do their marketing 
and put up their posters. 



56 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

When the opening day of the "one-hot-dish-cafeteria" came, the 
girls of committee number one spent their class hour preparing the food, 
wondering if it could possibly be right to use all those quarts of milk 
for the soup, and put in salt by the tablespoonful; the rest of the class 
and the teacher spent that class period in ordinar}^ laboratory work. 
During the following weeks, while the cafeteria was running, the class 
work consisted of new cafeteria dishes, and a series of baking lessons. 
Many times we were glad to use large recipes for things like cookies 
and cakes, and then turn the products over to the committee. The 
boys and girls were always delighted to find these surprises on sale and 
bought up the supply promptly. 

The lack of a dining-room seemed a serious obstacle at first, but we 
began by using the sewing-room and an adjacent recitation room. This 
made our need of a dining-room so e\ddent that the school gave us a 
room for this purpose, and had the walls and wood work freshly painted. 
We bought six kitchen tables and twenty-four chairs, at a cost of fifteen 
dollars and fifty cents for each set of one table and four chairs, and the 
girls painted and enamelled them all, designing their o\\ti color scheme 
of gray with green and black trimmings. This room and the sewing 
room together take care of the children very comfortably. 

The cafeteria work proved to be a definite and interesting project 
which enlisted the enthusiastic efforts of the girls. The many problems 
involved were of real educative value. The girls learned something of 
marketing and large quantity cooking; they found a real need for budgets 
and accounts, so that the application of this to house management was 
easy and reasonable; they learned a little of how dietetics should be used 
to plan meals and help maintain health; the aesthetic side of ser\'ing 
w^as brought out through discussions about how to make the food attrac- 
tive and appetizing; and we all learned so much about re-fijiishing old 
furniture, and so enjoyed wielding a paint brush that several of the girls 
went home and painted the kitchen chairs, or the porch furniture, or an 
old set of bedroom furniture. 

The most important educative value, however, was its effect upon 
the development of the girls themselves. The situation was always a 
social one; the committee had to w^ork together, first of all. Some 
chairmen showed real executive ability, and considerable initiative 
combined with tact in handling their committee members; many girls 
developed an assurance and managerial ability which they had never 
suspected they possessed; some learned for the first time the value of 



1921] THE HIGH SCHOOL CAFETERIA 57 

team-work; occasionally someone shirked, but the pressure brought to 
bear on the lazy person by the rest of the class was usually enough to 
bring about at least a temporary reformation. In one case a girl became 
so ashamed of herself for slipping out of her share of the work that she 
volunteered for extra work to make up for it. 

In the second place, the committee had to take the responsibility for 
the food served, and learn to accept cheerfully both the compliments 
of their customers and the adverse criticisms, which children are likely 
to make in rather a merciless fashion. They also had to train these 
customers in the clean-up program outlined for them, or accept the 
consequences, which meant cleaning up after them. 

There are many occasions during work of this kind when decisions 
must be made, often very quickly, and when all a girl's ingenuity is 
called into play to meet some emergency. The girl must use her own 
best judgment and must adapt herself quickly to the situation, without 
waiting to ask some one else what to do. Her self-reliance and self- 
confidence grow rapidly, and she is eager to have her turn at cafeteria 
work come again. 

The position of the teacher, after the preliminary period of study is 
over and the cafeteria is in full swing, is that of advisor and interested 
observer. She is in the room while the committee prepares the food 
but is so busy conducting the regular class work that the girls of the 
committee feel distinctly thrown on their own resources. She wiU 
wish to be in the building during the noon hour, unless there is some other 
teacher within call in case of accident, but she will not necessarily be in 
the kitchen. She will be keenly interested to see how the girls handle 
it all, but wiU leave the responsibility entirely in their hands. 

It is evident that this method of organization is adapted to the smaller 
schools. If the cafeteria grows to such proportions that the class cannot 
handle all the work, hired help should be secured for the washing of 
dishes and paring of potatoes, reserving for the class the managerial 
side of the work. If the enterprise becomes too large, either through 
an effort to serve a whole meal instead of one dish, or because of the size 
of the school, it becomes an exploitation of the girls rather than a project 
of educational value. In that case, the lunch room should be put on a 
separate basis, with its own manager. If friendly relations can be 
maintained so that classes can contribute products to the lunch room 
from time to time, and so that the girls can be given some experience 
in lunch room management, that would be highly desirable. 



58 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

To have a rightful place in our home economics course of study, the 
cafeteria work should measure up to these three standards: it should 
contribute something educative every day to each girl; the members of 
the class, not the teacher, should receive all the beneficial experience 
which comes from the executive side of the work; and it should be so 
conducted as to have an influence on the food habits of the school as 
a whole. 



GASTRIC RESPONSE TO FOODS 

ABSTRACTED BY MINNA DENTON 
{Concluded) 

vn 

The seventh paper deals with the response of the stomach to vege- 
tables, raw, and also cooked in different ways. One hundred and twenty- 
four experiments were made on 25 normal men. Presumably 100 grams 
of vegetables were fed in most cases, though this detail is not made clear. 
However, mention is made of the fact that only 50 grams were fed in 
the case of potato chips, and of radishes; 50 to 100 grams in the case of 
mushrooms. The average evacuation time for all subjects of the rapid- 
emptying type was 2 hours and for the slow-emptying type 2\ hours. 
The averages of the high points of the total acid curves were 70 and 77, 
respectively. 

The response of the stomach to potatoes prepared in the following different 
ways was determined : whole boiled, creamed, mashed (with and without milk 
and butter), baked (with and without butter), potato salad, French, German, 
and plain fried potatoes, and potato chips. All of these left the stomach in 
moderate time or 1^ to 2\ hours for rapid t^^e individuals and 2 to 3| hours 
for the slow type. Baked potatoes with butter required more than the a\ crage 
time but plain baked potatoes about the same time as boiled potatoes. The 
addition of milk and butter to mashed potatoes had little effect nor did creamed 
potatoes or potato salad differ much from plain boiled potatoes as regards 
gastric response. Fried potatoes left the stomach as rapidly as potatoes 
prepared in other ways. French fried potatoes required a few minutes longer 
than German or plain fried potatoes. Potato chips (only 50 gms. fed in- 
stead of 100 gms.) were handled very rapidly by the stomach, considering their 
high solid and fat content. 



1921] GASTRIC RESPONSE TO FOODS 59 

Sweet potatoes whether boiled, baked, or fried remained longer in the 
stomach than white potatoes cooked in the same ways. Dasheens, whether 
boiled, baked, or fried required a longer period of gastric digestion than white 
potatoes but no longer than sweet potatoes. Cassava roots were fed boiled 
and baked and were found to require a little longer than white potatoes simi- 
larly prepared. Boiled oyster plant required about the same period of gastric 
digestion as white potatoes. 

Boiled red beets left the stomach rapidly, i.e., in from 1 to 2 hours. After 
being pickled in vinegar they left still more rapidly, the vinegar evidently 
hastening the evacuation. Raw carrots also left the stomach rapidly (in from 
1-| to 2 hours). Boiled carrots took distinctly longer (2j to 2^ hours). Boiled 
parsnips required a longer time than beets or carrots. Boiled turnips left 
the stomach in 2| hours. Radishes in amounts of 50 grams left the stomach 
very rapidly (in from Ij to 1§ hours). 

Baked beans, as might be expected from their high protein content, remained 
somewhat longer in the stomach than most other kinds of vegetables and 
developed higher combined acidities. String beans, on the other hand, left 
the stomach rapidly, resembling more closely the green vegetables in stimu- 
latory power upon the stomach. Boiled peas required If hours in each of 
two cases or less time than baked beans. Boiled lentils appeared to require 
a little longer than peas, while raw endive resembled peas as far as evacuation 
times were concerned. 

Asparagus left the stomach rapidly. Boiled cauliflower required only a 
few minutes longer in one case, but in a subject of the slow type showed 
delayed evacuation. Cabbage whether raw or cooked left the stomach rapidly 
even in subjects of the slow-emptying t}npe. Boiled cabbage was not handled 
more readily than the raw. Cold slaw and sauerkraut required distinctly 
longer to leave the stomach than plain cabbage. Lettuce in spite of its bulky 
character was found to be one of the most easily evacuated of foods, the 
response to this food resembling that to cabbage. The addition of sugar and 
vinegar or oil and vinegar delayed evacuation. Celery in the raw state is 
evacuated more slowly than cabbage or lettuce, but creamed celery caused 
less difficulty. Spinach remained in the stomach distinctly longer than most 
vegetables. 

Onions stewed and fried showed slower evacuation than other vegetables 
low in protein, but not longer than high protein vegetables, when fed in 
moderate amounts. Cucumbers did not impose any special burden on the 
stomach, whether salted or unsalted. The unsalted required but a few min- 
utes longer than the salted cucumbers. Boiled squash required 2\ to 2^ hours 
or about the same time as boiled carrots or sugar corn. Raw tomatoes left 
the stomach very rapidly in all cases. Boiled tomatoes required a longer 



60 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

time. Mushrooms require only a moderate period of gastric digestion — 2| 
hours with a subject of the rapid type. 

Stewed corn left the stomach almost as rapidly as raw carrots or tomatoes 
and boiled hominy required but little longer. Boiled unpolished rice and 
boiled barley were readily handled by the stomach and usually passed into 
the intestine sooner than boiled polished rice. Raw agar-agar (previously 
soaked in water) left the stomach in l| hours as compared with 2| hours for 
boiled unpolished rice. Hemicelluloses appear therefore to leave the stomach 
very rapidly and show a certain analogy with vegetables such as cabbage and 
lettuce. 

In general raw vegetables low in protein, as carrots, celery, tomatoes, cab- 
bage, lettuce, and cucumbers, leave the stomach rapidly, develop moderately 
high free acidities but little combined acidity and leave the stomach without 
great change. Boiled vegetables show much more rapid and complete dis- 
integration. Vegetables high in starch, such as potatoes, show very consider- 
able starch digestion before leaving the stomach. In certain cases hardly 
any starch reaction could be obtained toward the end of digestion. 

VIII 

The eighth paper describes the effect upon gastric digestion of changing 
a palatable diet into an unpalatable one, by jumbling together into a 
mess all the foods used in the meal, smearing the food and dishes with 
charcoal to make them look dirty, laying newspapers instead of a cloth 
on the table, and producing an unpleasant smell by means of various 
chemicals. "In the first case (attractively served food) the nitrogen 
utilization was 86.7 per cent, in the second (unattractive) it was 85.6 
per cent. The nitrogen balance showed a retention in the first period 
of 3.0 per cent, in the second of 6.4 per cent. This in spite of the fact 
that the subject was only with difficulty persuaded to eat the unpalatable 
food, and that another subject who was given the same kind of food be- 
came nauseated and could not continue." 

At this point the reader may be interested to pause and consider a 
criticism^ which this paper has called forth. The critic objects, that while 
normal digestive processes might successfully resist the interference of 
one or two unpleasant associations with food (dirt, bad smell, etc.), the 
result might be very different if there were a protracted period of subjec- 
tion to unpalatable food conditions; that the physiological organism 
should be studied as a unit, and that when we so study it "we not only 
find that 'psychic stim.uli' promote or retard the secretion of digestive 

2 Role of Psychological Factors in Digestion. Kantor, Science, 52 (1920), p. 200. 



1921] GASTRIC RESPONSE TO FOODS 61 

juices, but that all actions of the individual are affected by the particu- 
lar surrounding conditions of such actions." That the Philadelphia 
investigators are far from defending the wisdom of "eating unpalatable 
food in untidy surroundings" is, however, quite clear from a perusal 
of the original article. 

IX 

The ninth paper reports the profound effect of mental anxiety on gas- 
tric digestion. One of the subjects, a first-year medical student whose 
stomach had always previously been found normal, was given 100 grams 
of fried chicken on the morning of an important examination in chem- 
istry and wrote his answers during the digestion test. The result was 
that the stomach emptied itself only at the end of 6| hours instead of 
4| hours (as in the same test repeated a week later, with conditions re- 
moving all mental stress), and the highest total acidity was about 90 
instead of about 65, as in the second test. 



The tenth article reports further tests which confirm the results of 
those mentioned in the eighth and ninth papers. It reports also tests 
which show that the sight of appetizing food has a greater effect in induc- 
ing a preliminary flow of gastric juice (psychic or appetite secretion) 
than does either the smell or the taste of it. 

XI 

The eleventh paper reports a study which was made "of the influence 
of water, tea, coffee, and cocoa upon the gastric digestion of a uniform 
mixed meal as measured by the acid responses and evacuation times." 

Evacuation of the stomach was not appreciably delayed by the drinking 
of 1 liter (about 1 quart) of cold water, cold or hot tea, hot coffee, either 
plain, with cream, or with cream and sugar. The addition of sugar alone to 
coffee delayed evacuation. Cocoa in 1 liter quantities markedly delayed 
evacuation. To a less extent this was true of half-liter volumes. One liter 
quantities of water, hot or cold tea, hot coffee, plain or with cream, delayed 
somewhat the rise of the level of intragastric acidity (i. e. acidity inside the 
stomach) as compared with the basal meal alone. As high acidities and 
normal evacuation were attained, however, these beverages must have stim- 
ulated gastric secretion, been rapidly evacuated, or more probably both. 



62 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Coffee with sugar alone delayed the development of gastric acidity. Coffee 
with sugar and cream has less effect. Cocoa delayed distinctly the develop- 
ment of intragastric acidity. One liter quantities of tea and coffee gave rise 
to marked acceleration of the heart beat, to vasomotor relaxation, tremors, 
and other nervous symptoms. Cocoa did not produce these effects but 
brought about a feeUng of fulness at the stomach. 

xn 

The twelfth paper gives the results of 90 experiments with gastric 
digestion of pies, cakes, and puddings. "The average evacuation time 
on puddings for all subjects was 2 hours and 18 minutes as against 2 
hours and 27 minutes for pies and 3 hours and 2 minutes for cakes. 
Averaging the highest total acidities, values were obtained for puddings 
of 92, for pies of 90, and for cakes of 90. Direct comparisons of the 
three types of foods on the same individuals indicated also that pies were 
handled more readily than cakes, and pudding somewhat more readily 
than either." 

Fruit pies, such as apple, pumpkin, raisin, and peach, left the stomach in 
from 2 to 2f hours and developed a moderately high acidity (90 to 100). Most 
of the acidity is due to free hydrochloric acid, the acid combining powers of 
these pies being low. Cherry pie, high in sugar, remained in the stomach a 
few minutes longer than the above. Rhubarb pie was treated in the same 
way as fruit pies, leaving the stomach in from 2 to 21 hours. Custard pies 
left the stomach in moderate time (2j to 2^ hours) and possessed a fairly high 
acid combining power. Lemon meringue showed a similar response except 
that the acidity developed more slowly. Mince pies required a rather long 
time to leave the stomach (2f to SJ hours) and developed high total and 
combined acidities. Pie crusts alone remained in the stomach distinctly 
longer than most whole pies or the contents alone of such pies, and gave a 
lower but more sustained acid curve. On the other hand, differences in 
evacuation time of whole pies and the contents of such pies were usually very 
sHght so that pies with crust, if properly made, could by no means be classified 
as difficult for the stomach to handle. The addition of 50 grams of ice cream 
to a small piece of pie did not increase the burden of the stomach to any 
marked extent. The addition of 20 grams of cheese to apple pie increased 
the digestion time only a few minutes. 

Angels' food cake remained distinctly longer in the stomach than devils' 
food cake and developed a higher total and combined acidity. Chocolate 
layer cake left the stomach in moderate time, acid secretion being depressed 
by the sugar of this cake. Fresh and old fruit cakes showed almost identical 



1921] GASTRIC RESPONSE TO FOODS 63 

acid responses and evacuation times in the human stomach. Strawberry 
shortcakes left the stomach in moderate time (3 to 3\ hours) and developed 
high intragastric acidities. Lady fingers left the stomach in 3 hours or in 
about the same time as other cakes. Ginger bread evoked a rather slow acid 
response and left the stomach in moderate time. Cinnamon buns left the 
stomach sooner than most cakes but with a similar acid response. Bread 
with peanut butter remained in the stomach longer than cinnamon buns 
and developed a higher acidity. Bread with corn sirup left the stomach in 
2| hours, the sirup depressing secretion somewhat. 

Doughnuts remained in the stomach a few minutes longer than crullers. 
Acidities developed a little more slowly in the case of crullers, due perhaps to 
the sugar and fat content. These fried cakes required a digestion time but 
little longer than the average for cakes. Cookies, in spite of their high content 
of dry matter, were found to leave the stomach sooner than most cakes, 
probably on account of their granular texture. Ginger cookies required a 
little longer than those less highly flavored, and the acid development was 
less rapid. 

Chocolate corn starch pudding, rice pudding with or without raisins, Indian 
pudding, bread pudding, and gelatin left the stomachs of individuals of the 
rapid-emptying type very quickly (in 1^ to 2 hours). Rice puddings with 
raisins left a little sooner than plain rice pudding. Cabinet pudding, Brown 
Betty pudding, cup custard, and apple tapioca required only a few minutes 
longer. Plain tapioca remained in the stomach a little longer than apple 
tapioca. Plum pudding left the stomach slowly. The highest total and 
combined acidities were caused by Indian pudding, bread pudding, and cup 
custard, all of these being high in protein. The other puddings developed 
moderate acidities except gelatin, which produced little acid stimulation and 
left the stomach very quickly. 

xin 

The thirteenth paper reporting gastric response to sugars and candies, 
summarizes findings as follows: 

Large amounts (100 grams) of cane sugar or of glucose in concentrated 
solution markedly depressed gastric secretion and delayed evacuation of the 
stomach. Small amounts (10 grams) of either did not appreciably inhibit. 
Candies depress secretion and delay evacuation in proportion to their sugar 
content and the amounts of them ingested. This tendency is influenced, 
however, by flavoring substances and particularly by added food ingredients 
such as milk, eggs, or chocolate, which stimulate gastric secretion. 



64 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Candies should be eaten not before but after meals. Hard candies which 
must be sucked are preferable to cream candies for children because of the 
smaller quantity of less concentrated sugar solution derived from them. 

Cane sugar and maple sugar elicited much the same response from the 
human stomach as glucose, although the possibility that the greater sweetness 
and less rapid absorption of the first mentioned sugars gives them a slight 
advantage is not excluded. Soft candies such as bonbons, soft creamy wafers, 
and the interiors of chocolate creams when given in 100 gram portions exerted 
the same depressing action on gastric secretion and evacuation as concen- 
trated sugar solutions. 

Peppermint oil used as a flavoring agent delayed evacuation, while straw- 
berry fruit flavor appeared to accelerate it. Chocolate appeared to stimulate 
gastric secretion as indicated by experiments on milk chocolate, chocolate 
fudge, and chocolate creams, which gave higher acid figures than plain sugar 
candies. Stale chocolates remained in the stomach relatively long. 

The sucking of hard candies introduced but a small amount of sugar into 
the stomach, which was readily evacuated, and exerted but little action on 
gastric secretion. Chewing caramels gave rise to a more voluminous secretion 
than cream candies, but evacuation times were about the same. Salt water 
taffy gave rise to less secretion, while gum drops left the stomach rapidly 
with little acid production. Plain marshmallows remained in the stomach 
rather long, but after being toasted these confections left the stomach rapidly 
and gave rise to high intragastric acidities. Licorice gave rise to a fairly 
abundant secretion and remained in the stomach for nearly three hours. 

Sugared or buttered pop corn developed a moderate acidity and left the 
stomach rather quickly. The addition of honey to bread did not delay 
evacuation, although acid production was somewhat depressed. 

It is to be noted, however, that this study of the effect of candy and 
syrup upon gastric action, differs in one important respect from the 
similar studies previously made on other foods. 100-gram portions of 
most of these foods correspond very well with amounts w^hich may well 
be served at a single sitting; but in the case of candy or syrup, 100 grams 
is a larger amount than most persons would be likely to consume at once. 
It will be noted that, in the instances cited above, where this amount was 
reduced (honey on bread, only 20 grams; sucking of hard candies, only 
5 to 15 grams actually ingested), the unfavorable results of sweets in the 
stomach were minimized. 



1921] GASTRIC RESPONSE TO FOODS 65 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

(1) The Determination and Significance of Intragastric Conductance. Bergeim, Amer. 

Jour. Physiol., 45 (1917), P. 1. 

(2) A Fractional Study of the Coagulation of Milk in the Human Stomach Bergeim, 

Eward, Rehfuss, and Hawk, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 48 (1919), P. 411. 

(3) Response of the Human Stomach to Beef and Beef Products. Fishback, Smith, Ber- 

geim, Lichtenthaeler, Rehfuss, and Hawk, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 49 (1919), P. 
174. 

(4) Response of the Stomach to Pork and Pork Products. Smith, Fishback, Bergeim, Reh- 

fuss, and Hawk, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 49 (1919), P. 204. 

(5) Response of the Stomach to Lamb and Lamb Products. Fishback, Smith, Bergeim, 

Rehfuss, and Hawk, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 49 (1919), P. 222. 

(6) Digestion in Normal Human Stomach of Eggs Prepared in Different Ways. Miller, 

Fowler, Bergeim, Rehfuss, and Hawk, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 49 (1919), P. 254. 

(7) Response of Normal Human Stomach to Vegetables Prepared in Different Ways. 

Miller, Fowler, Bergeim, Rehfuss, and Hawk, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 51 (1920), 
P. 332. 

(8) Is Unpalatable Food Properly Digested? Holder, Smith, and Hawk. Science, 51 

(1920), P. 299. 

(9) Influence of Worry on Gastric Digestion. Miller, Bergeim, and Hawk, Science, 52 

(1920), P. 253. 

(10) Psychic Secretion of Gastric Juice in Normal Men. Miller, Bergeim, Rehfuss, and 

Hawk, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 52 (1920), P. 1. 

(11) Influence of Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa upon Digestion. Miller, Bergeim, Rehfuss, and 

Hawk, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 52 (1920), P. 28. 

(12) Response of Human Stomach to Pies, Cakes, and Puddings. Miller, Fowler, Bergeim, 

Rehfuss, and Hawk, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 52 (1920), P. 248. 

(13) Influence of Sugars and Candies on Gastric Secretion. Miller, Bergeim, Relifuss, and 

Hawk, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 53 (1920), P. 65. 



66 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

THE FOCD OF THE IISIMIGRANT IN RELATION TO HEALTH 

MICHAEL M. DAVIS, JR., AND BERTHA M. WOOD 

(Concluded) 

THE ITALIANS^ 

Italy has a climate much like that of California, which gives the 
people a long farming season, but in the hottest part of the summer in 
southern Italy very little work is done during the middle of the day. 
Wheat, com, and other cereals, vegetables, fruits, chickens, pigs, and goats' 
milk constitute the food products of the farms. Some yield a greater 
variety than others, depending on the ambition and aggressiveness of 
the farmer. 

The Italians make their own cheese from goats' milk; they lay in a 
store of dried peppers and strings of garlic for the winter, and they make 
enough tomato paste to last during the season. Here and there one finds 
oUves raised for family use. These are pickled, both ripe and green, 
and used not only as a relish, but cooked with macaroni or, in northern 
Italy, with cornmeal. 

The Italians who come to America are the peasants or country land 
workers. They are heavily taxed at home and almost no educational 
opportunities are provided for their children. Ready money is scarce, 
and saving is a slow process. The needs of the family are suppHed from 
the farms direct, or by exchange with neighbors. 

ItaHans may be divided into three groups : those from northern Italy, 
those from central Italy, and the sea-coast group — the Sicilians and 
those living on the shores of the Adriatic. The Northern group know 
as little about the foods of the central and sea-coast groups as they do 
of their dialects, and \'ice versa. 

The Italians from the northern provinces use stronger drinks than 
wine, both at and between meals. Their diet consists of black coffee 
for adults, goats' milk for children, and bread without butter, for break- 

2 Studies already published concerning the Italians in this country include: — Dietary 
Studies in Chicago, 1895-96, Bulletin 55 of the Office of Experiment Stations; Italians in 
Chicago, in Report of the U. S. Commissioner of Labor, 1897; G. LaPiana, Italians in Mil- 
waukee, 1915; The Italian in Chicago, Bulletin of the Chicago Department of Public Welfare, 
Feb. 1919. The first mentioned bulletin also includes a study of Bohemian diet. 

See also Italian Cookery, by Eva Mariotti, in the Journal for August, 1919. 



1921 J THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT 67 

fast. The bread is made of wheat, home grown and ground. It is 
heavy and dark in color because the wheat is not put through any refin- 
ing process. The bread is made in large round loaves, or in oblong pieces, 
and is baked on the bottom of the oven without being placed in tins. 
Oftentimes it is baked on the stones in one side of an open fireplace, or 
out-of-doors on heated stones. This gives a heavy crust on all sides. 

The mid-day meal is not considered an important one, as the men are 
out in the fields during the farming season which lasts from early spring 
till late fall. Often the women are with them helping with the work. 
Sometimes they take along bread, cheese, and coffee, sometimes a piece 
of sausage. If they return to the house they have bread, fried eggs, and 
black coffee. The important meal is served at the end of the day, 
and preparation for it is generally started early in the morning. The 
black pot is put over the fire, and into this is put a small amount of meat 
or some beans. Their variety of the latter is so great that they can use 
a different kind each day in the week if they wish. Later they add 
vegetables, then macaroni, and lastly fat, either lard or olive oil. Po- 
lenta may be started in this same black iron pot. This is a thick corn- 
meal mush, to which is added tomato paste or ripe tomatoes. Some- 
times it is changed by the addition of grated cheese or bits of pork or 
garlic. It is eaten hot or, if allowed to cool, is sliced and fried in olive 
oil. This is eaten with bread and butter. 

Proceeding south in Italy one finds the use of alcohol decreasing and 
more wine used at meals and on social occasions, accompanied by cakes. 
The food produced in central Italy is not very different from that of the 
North. It is, however, raised more abundantly, as the farming season is 
no longer. Fruits and vegetables are produced in quantity and the poor- 
est people have them in abundance. Very little meat is used; it is served 
not more than once a week in some families, and in others on festive 
occasions only. Here again we fimd the many kinds of ''pasta" or mac- 
aroni used in combination with different vegetables, garlic, and oil. 
When bread is eaten with it, no butter accompanies it. The peasants 
use very few pastries or cakes except on feast days; then they are elabor- 
ate, such as "Gateau Margherita" made with ten eggs and whites of 
five more, butter, flour and almond flavoring. 

In the frosting of cakes the Italians exercise all their artistic ability, 
beautifying and ornamenting them. It is because of the expense and 
the unusual amount of time and work it takes to make them that pastries 
are not used oftener. Fruit takes their place in the every day diet of 



68 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

the people. Goats furnish milk for the family. The children have it 
to drink, and the surplus is used for cheeses of various kinds. 

Thus we see that the people of northern and central Italy have a very 
well-balanced diet, with protein from milk, cheese, eggs, and meat; 
carbohydrates from macaroni in its various forms and bread; mineral 
matter from fruits and vegetables; and fat from olive oil. From the 
milk, vegetables, and egg yolks they derive vitamines to promote growth. 
It is difficult to measure their daily food in calories as they generally 
have a one-dish meal prepared in a large kettle from which each one helps 
himself, eating until he is satisfied. 

The occupation of the southern ItaHans outside the large cities, is 
fishing. Some are engaged in the sponge fisheries, others in coral fish- 
ing, while the largest proportion are fishing for food. As a result the 
sea-coast people have a more varied diet than the other two groups. 
Fish of innumerable kinds, including shell fish, are added to their daily 
menus, these ranging from snails, the smallest variety, to ink fish, one 
of the largest. Snails are sometimes combined with rice or macaroni. 
They are put into water and left to soak out of their shells. Then the 
shells are taken out and the water turned off, leaving the snail meats in 
the bottom of the dish. These are scooped out and mixed with the 
macaroni, to which may have been added garlic, green or red peppers, 
or tomatoes, for the southern Italians are fond of more highly seasoned 
food than the other two groups. All small fish are used in combina- 
tions of this kind, while larger fish are boiled, baked, or fried in olive oil 
and served with a tomato sauce, to which garlic and green peppers have 
been added. 

The diet of the ItaHans in the cities is more expensive and varied than 
that of the people in the rural districts. Incomes are larger and trans- 
portation brings food materials from all parts of Italy, from northern 
Africa and even from this country. These people use more sweets, in the 
line of pastry and cake. Afternoon tea is always accompanied by tea 
cakes and light wine is served with small cakes. 

Throughout Italy the variety of foods is more limited in the winter 
than in the summer, as the people have little knowledge of preserving 
fruits and vegetables, except the making of tomato paste, the pickling of 
peppers, cucumbers, and olives, and the drying of peppers and garhc. 

On the arrival of the Italians in the United States they readily find 
friends and neighbors from their own section of the home country and 
establish their homes near them. From the different foods carried in 



1921] THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT 69 

the markets one can generally tell from what locality the people came. 
Macaroni is not only imported, but is also manufactured in this country. 
There is Indian meal for their polenta, meat and fish in abundance, and 
plenty of vegetables and fruits of various kinds, but everything is much 
more expensive than at home. The Itahan laborer here is paid larger 
wages, he handles more money than in Italy, but with the joy of this 
comes the reahzation that it costs much more to live. 

The most important food that is missing from the Italian diet in this 
country is milk. Herds of goats and cows with their calves are not 
driven around our streets from door to door to furnish the day's supply 
of milk for a few pennies, as is done in some of the cities of Italy. No 
great effort was necessary in Italy to have milk; goats were inexpensive, 
both their first cost and their maintenance; cows were always kept on 
a farm if goats were not, and the more well-to-do often had both. These 
animals were considered as much a part of the place as the grape vines 
and fruit trees. 

In this country it is an effort to get milk and it has to be planned for. 
As it is usually considered a drink rather than a food, the food is bought 
first; then if anything is left, and usually there is not much, it is used 
for milk. 

More meat can be had than in the old country, and the Italian enjoys 
it, and feels better satisfied when he has it in large proportion with his 
macaroni and olive oil. While it was used only once or twdce a week in 
Italy, now it becomes part of the daily dietary. The family like vege- 
tables, but to get from them the amount of satisfaction and bulk to 
which they are accustomed would incur too great an expense. Either 
they leave out both milk and meat, and Hve largely on starches — bread, 
macaroni, and potatoes — and vegetables, or meat is used at the sacrifice 
of vegetables and milk. When the health of the family suffers through 
this great change in diet, one often hears, "My man no like his work, 
he sick," or "My child, he no good since he came here," always attribut- 
ing the difficulty to the wrong cause. Eggs are another staple in the 
diet in Italy which is almost prohibited here because of high prices, unless 
the family raise chickens. Many of their soups require a large number 
of eggs, eggless soup being almost unknown to them. 

These conditions and changes help to indicate the hard problem which 
the woman in the Italian family has to meet in this countr>^ Doubtless 
she is unaccustomed to marketing, and generally has no one to help her 
who has solved the problem, so she quite naturally follows in the foot- 



70 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

steps of others who have known no more than she "the way out" into 
a dietary suited to the new needs of her family and to American supplies. 
The result is that a readjustment takes place without any real plan for 
an adequate diet. The raw food materials of the Italian diet, many of 
which were easily procured from their own farms, when combined in 
their home country ways, furnished a cheap well-balanced diet. In 
this country, because of greater cost and more difificulty in securing, the 
Italians often have a poorly-balanced diet, and one short in some of the 
most important food elements. 

The Italian children are given the adult's diet as soon as they are out 
of swaddling clothes. The larger the abdomen the stronger and health- 
ier the mother considers the child. A diet of milk, strained cereal, and 
fruit juices is unknown to an Italian mother. Too large an amount of 
macaroni or rice and lard are usually included and often the children 
suffer from constipation because of this excess of starch with few vege- 
tables and little fruit. The children learn to take tea or black coffee and 
bread without butter for breakfast. Usually this means a meal of 200 
to 250 calories, composed of carbohydrates, instead of one of 500 calories, 
such as they should have obtained from a combination of protein, car- 
bohydrates, mineral matter, and fats. At noon the meal often consists of 
bread again with a piece of bologna and more tea or coffee. At night 
or supper time comes the big meal of the day which is started in the 
morning, as in their native country, and cooked either in one large kettle 
or in several small ones, the contents being put into one in the last 
process of preparation. 

The Italian woman, when she does cook a meal, spends much time and 
care, and the results are very appetizing. This fact gives encourage- 
ment, showing what an apt pupil she would be if taught early on her 
arrival how to market, what raw food materials like those of her home 
country can be secured, what substitutes can be used, and what a day's 
dietary, breakfast, dinner, and supper, should contain and why. In 
attempting to furnish this instruction, native dishes and raw food mate- 
rials should be recognized and preserved as far as possible. If olive oil 
is a luxury, other vegetable oils may be introduced. Soups may be 
given that will have the Italian flavor of tomato or garlic or both. To 
them may have been added macaroni in one of its various forms, or rice, 
and this will furnish thickening in the place of eggs. Milk soups will 
be acceptable only when highly flavored or after the family have learned 
to like white sauces. When the value of the vegetables the Itahans have 



1921] THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT 71 

always cared for is explained, often they are willing to substitute more 
of Ihcm for meat. Cheese is used more sparingly here because the 
people cannot make it themselves and therefore must buy it. This 
adds another expense, with the result that less is used. 

The Italians have as good combinations of food from which to select 
as can be found in American cook-books, when special diets must be 
given to those who are not well. Italian children do not need to be en- 
couraged to eat macaroni, vermicelli, or spaghetti, which are usually 
well cooked. They are quite ready to eat oat meal or rolled oats if these 
are cooked in milk and raisins added. A constipation diet includes 
vegetables, served in the many different ways of cooking and combining, 
and fresh fruit or fruit juices. When constipation is found among the 
Italians it is usually due to the fact that they have been financially 
unable to secure vegetables, fruit, and olive oil and have lived exclu- 
sively on macaroni, rice, and lentils. 

An Italian patient with nephritis finds it very hard to leave cheese 
out of his diet. He does not miss the other forms of protein so much. 
Very little meat is used at any time; eggs are used as thickening, and 
would not be missed if another thickening were used ; but cheese furnishes 
flavor for many dishes. Therefore if any protein is to be allowed, 
cheese should be selected. 

Tuberculous patients may be given milk in the same forms as are 
prescribed for undernourished children, and eggs in soups. The Italian 
people are not in the habit of using soft eggs, but have many recipes for 
using hard-boiled eggs. Patients may be taught to poach or drop them 
and serve a little grated cheese on them. In this way they learn to eat 
them. Sugar may be prescribed in fruit compotes — stewed fruits, made 
of either fresh or dried fruits. Raisins and almond paste are other forms 
of sweets. 

Diabetic patients find it very hard to adjust themselves to a diet 
without any "pasta" or macaroni. Among the poorer people it has 
always been the staple at every meal. Vegetables used by them in 
many combinations are prescribed for this disease. Tomatoes may be 
scooped out, an egg dropped in each, and the tomatoes placed in 
a small dish and baked until the eggs are set. Mushrooms are often 
chopped and baked in tomatoes. Beans of all kinds are used in 
their dietaries and must be removed. Often the use of mushrooms may 
be encouraged in their place. Endive is enjoyed as well as dandelions 
and spinach. 



72 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

If the Italians can secure their preferred diet it is usually well-bal- 
anced. Naturally they are painstaking, good cooks. It is not, there- 
fore, at all impossible for a person who knows their native dietaries to 
help them to adjust themselves to the conditions in this country and to 
the needs in their local environment. Understanding of their dietary 
background is absolutely essential to successful results. 

APPLICATIONS TO HEALTH WORK AND TO INSTITUTIONAL SERVICE 

From our studies of dietary backgrounds it has become apparent: 

1. That a family coming to this country from a wholly different en- 
vironment is under an enormous handicap in attaining a satisfactory 
diet, particularly when the income is smaU. 

2. That doctors, nurses, social workers, and even dietitians generally 
lack knowledge of the native diets and usual food habits of the foreign- 
bom. 

3. That a large number of the foods of foreign-born peoples are well 
adapted to their physical needs. 

4. That most of these foods can be obtained in this country. 

5. That the dietary errors arising in this country are largely due to 
disturbance of the balance in the diet due to such causes as change of 
environment or new scales of prices; and that the problem before the die- 
titian is not so much to introduce a complete "American" dietary as it 
is to restore the former dietary balance by supplying lost elements. 

6. Knowledge of foods of the foreign-bom and of their native dietaries 
is the foundation of all success in this endeavor. It is a necessity in deal- 
ing with many specific problems of health or of disease, and is invalua- 
ble as a means of mutual understanding and sympathy between the 
American-born and the immigrant. "The way to a man's heart is 
through his stomach." The soul of a family may be reached through 
the daily chores of the household. 

It is obvious that a study of this kind should be extended to more race 
groups than the four which we have taken up as examples. Moreover 
it would be useful to enter into more detail in many respects, for success 
in dietary work, after certain general principles are accepted, is largely 
a matter of detail. Certain particular needs appear to arise and shape 
themselves as outstanding recommendations even as the result of this 
incomplete and tentative survey. 



1921] THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT 73 

1. There is an evident need and a demand for printed material for 
professional workers such as visiting nurses, dietitians, home economics 
teachers, and social workers. There would seem to be a place for this 
material published in several forms as : 

(a) A text-book, for colleges and hospitals where young women are 
trained as home economics teachers, dietitians or nurses, including a 
list of foods and the recipes of foreign diets corresponding to well-balanced 
American diets. 

(b) A book somewhat less formal in character, for dietitians, visiting 
nurses, and medical-social workers, covering the diets of the different 
nationalities and races in relation to health, with particular instructions 
in the preparation of food, as well as descriptive matter and general 
principles. 

(c) Several single reprints in leaflet form of this material for each 
nationality or race, each reprint containing some statement of general 
principles, a brief account of the dietary background of the race group, 
and also practical recipes. 

2. There is need for published material which would enlighten Amer- 
icans regarding the practical utility and enjoyability of many foreign 
foods. A study of "Foreign Foods which would Improve the American 
Dietary" would be an Americanizing agent of practical value for the use 
of home economics sections of women's clubs and similar organizations. 
American diet would be improved and (psychologically speaking) be 
enriched; and many Americans would be given a sympathetic apprecia- 
tion and understanding of our foreign-bom population through the prac- 
tical medium of the kitchen and the dinner table. 

3. The great practical interest which everybody has in food should be 
made use of in the teaching of English. There would seem to be room 
for the preparation and publication of an American Homemaking Primer, 
telling briefly and simply what to buy, how to use American stoves and 
American utensils, and introducing the best American foods to the 
reader. Such a primer might be especiaUy good for the foreign-born 
woman who has just learned or is just learning English, or such a 
primer might also be printed in a foreign language or be bi-lingual. 

4. An "International Menu" is needed for use in institutions of all 
kinds recei\'ing any number of foreign-bom. An "international menu" 
is one which is not confined to American dishes, but which contains each 
day at least one dish especially adapted to at least one of the nation- 
alities or races represented among the patients. This would demon- 



74 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

strate to the patients that the dietitian had considered them and would 
have a good psychological effect which would of itself help them phys- 
ically. Thus in a menu for an institution with many different race 
groups, a characteristic Italian dish might be included one day, a Polish 
dish at another meal or on another day soon thereafter, and similarly the 
next day might remember the Jewish or Russian patients. 

Such an international menu need not make the diet less acceptable 
to native-born Americans. It would give greater variety and would 
help the dietitians in their endless search for something new. As must be 
borne in mind, the practical value of such a menu lies in its psychologi- 
cal quite as much as its physiological effect upon the immigrant. The 
work of making up such an international menu is a matter of practical 
and not difficult detail. The dietitians or other persons responsible in 
hospitals, sanitoria, convalescent homes, and restaurants in industrial 
plants should (wherever the racial constitution of their people requires it) 
be made responsible for developing something of this sort. 

5. The diet lists used by medical institutions such as hospitals and 
dispensaries should be adapted to the people, as well as to the diseases 
which are treated. The habitual foods of the nationality or race dealt 
with must be in the mind of the person who prepares the diet list, if it is 
to be of much real service. This means that the dietary problems of 
patients need to be handled by dietitians, visiting nurses, or social work- 
ers, who have some knowledge of foreign as well as of the characteristic 
American diet. The average visiting nurse or medical-social ser\-ice 
worker caimot become an expert in dietetics and must depend upon the 
advisory dietitian or the visiting housekeeper. It may be expected that 
dispensary and visiting nursing associations should provide themselves, 
directly or through the cooperation of some Other organization, with at 
least the advisory services of such a dietitian. Food clinics, in which 
dietitians can be consulted by nurses or general workers and to which 
patients can be sent when necessary, are needed in the large dispensary 
and in connection with the Health Centers which are now being estab- 
Kshed so rapidly throughout the country. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

PRACTICAL BUDGET ACCOUNTING 

MAURICE LE BOSQUET 
Director, American School of Home Economics 

No course or text on home management would be considered complete 
without full consideration of the family plan of spending, or the budget, 
and of the household accounts necessary to keep a check on the division 
of expenditures, but, of a hundred families, how many really plan their 
spending or have any more than a vague idea of what becomes of their 
income from year to year? Personally, I know of only two such families. 
The distaste for keeping household or personal accounts is well nigh 
universal. I do not keep such accounts — probably you, who read this 
page, do not; yet we all realize that planned spending will give more for 
our income than haphazard spending and that if we really knew how 
much we are spending for food, clothing, or luxuries, from month to 
month, we might reduce our useless and thoughtless expenditure. Then 
we could obtain more of the things we really want but never seem to have 
money to buy, and we could save more for investment. 

Some months ago, the secretary of the American Bankers Association 
sent us a request for some material and with the letter enclosed a reprint 
of an article from the journal of the association on "The Home Economics 
Department." A number of banks have lately established such a depart- 
ment, sometimes called a Home Service Department, with the purpose 
of showing famihes how to save money. As a plan of spending, or budget, 
is the best way to stretch the family incom.e to provide for saving, the 
family budget is used as the basis of the work. A Budget Account 
Book is furnished to depositors, together with suggestions for drawing 
up the family budget. 

AVhile we were much interested in this new extension movement in 
home economics, we felt from our extensive experience in trying to get 
housekeepers to keep household accounts that the account book scheme 
would be of only limited success because only a very small proportion 
of women (or men) could be induced to keep household accounts for 

75 



76 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



more than a month or two; but we suggested a plan that might make 
the household budget a practical program. This was to the effect that 
a checking account could be used as a fairly good accounting system, 
provided that the full family income be deposited in the bank and that 
all expenditures be made by check, even to obtain cash. It was sug- 
gested that a special check book could be designed which would give 
the distribution of expenditures and make budget accounting nearly 
automatic. 

This idea seemed to arouse interest and the illustrations herewith 
show how the accounting check book has been worked out. 



Month of OA-rW<nr nxo 


Expended For 




OAT 
AND 
NO. 


Record of Checks 


A MT OF 


BANKS 
BALANCE 


SAVINGS 


FOOD 


cL=n,,« „7;;„'„ 


'"."I"' 


LU.U„.S 


...SO.AL 


Totals and B»i forward 


HOTW 


iU-?b 


50-00 


Ht-'Sb 


%T-X.l 


iH-IO 


m-qi 


il -^"J 


attM 


n* 


Towuii aAiuL vwojiTi™^ 


11.30 


lH?-5t 






»a.-3o 




' 






ion 


ro. l.*)n.^K WW« (^ 


.Iri* 


TO S.S,.VT^'^V^<IYVaSL,k 


is".o2 


•XX3.^\> 


• 


lb-.08 


• 


• 




• 


• 




'ORi3.6UvvMjr xi.oi vA,.>r 


,1n» 





\1 ^y 


a.ot.fc^ 




\<l -'i\ 












/o-ai 


a '^ 


VtJ.30 


•5'0.00 


90.7-5- 


9?.i-7 


'5'y.?o 


V/-9/ 


vj;*"-3 


34.4V 


nn>i 






Moy.bs 


• 


• 


• 






• 






\<x 


TO £, VTnl? /P,n^y 


So .00 


3iV bS" 


b'0.00 










• 




\v\ 




"liA 


TOQ..V\A)0lCTjfM-<''> 


to. 00 


a.q4.t.i- 




• 


• 


to-oo 






• 


n-? 


FO. R«^ ' 


7^ 


TO CcA. f). gtJft. 


10.00 


a.?f.b!>" 


• 


3tl 


1-40 


3 -so 




• 


M-48 


■ ll:^ 


F''»ii.,«<Cii!.J.S'0 lVl1»(5l 








1 




L,^. 


, 




. 


L^ 





Fig. 1 



Receipts Month o f QJoWt. 



J 920 



MTESEST DIVIDENDS 



a..s.H.& 



Xaa 



;uk) 



tf-LWri. fltwA r.iwiynwa 



ts 



g- ^' H. &■ 



loo 



JU 



^iil 



MONTHLY SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES 









CL»T.,«. 




OPER.TI.O 


.....«.-> 


LU.IIR.ES 


M..O..L 




Suo-Dmsran 




SO 


00 


ao 


V'l 


10 


90 


(tD 


on 


10 


to 


u 


tl 






•Jn 


00 












13 


oV. 


^'l 


*^?| 






Ih 


no 


>M 


50 


10 


00 


7 


If 












It 


31 




'i^ 






4 


Jo 


(oloo 


3 


\0 


4" 


:ro 




■ 








]4 


10 


1 


"i^ 








*'o 


T 


00 


^^^ 


Hi 


4 


00 




■ ■ 








I 


50 










2 


SO 














TOTAV 


TOTAI 


•fo 


00 


fo 


7J- 


??'J7 


60 


00 


3*/ 


?o 


v/!?/ 


4? '^"3 


j4 


kt 


VM AO 


B'JDGET 


■SiQ 


n 


fo 


00 


Zq'oo 


fco 00 


J 00 


Vo 00 


_j3p[oo 


Jo loo 


900 90 

r <,3l3o 


i Pl-tJSO« Minus 


+^ 


_2£J 


hi. 


11 






t "r 


loj 


t l\ll 


+ '? 


j£S 


t (, 


kMl 



Fig. 2 



1921] 



PRACTICAL BUDGET ACCOUNTING 



77 



Figure 1 gives a portion of the special interleaf and explains itself. 
The usual notations of date and number of the check, to whom drawn 
and for what, the amount of check, deposits, and bank balance, are 
provided for, and at the time of recording each check the amount is 
written in the columns provided for Food, Clothing, Operating, and 
other items. This gives a classified record of what is being spent from 
day to day and, at the end of the month, simple addition gives the total 
expended for the month and the total in each division of expenditure. 

The other side of the special interleaf, shown in figure 2, provides 
for a classified record of receipts which are deposited in the bank and 
also a table for a Monthly Summary of Expenditures with five sub- 
divisions under each main division. A list of sub-divisions suggested 
is given in the following key. 



Key to subdivisions 















SHELTER 


SAVINGS 




FOOD 




CLOTHING 








Rented 


Owned 


1. Savings Account, 


1. 


Groceries 


L 


Man's Clothes 


L 


Rent 


1. Int., Ins., 


etc. 


2. 


Meat, Fish, Fowl, 


2. 


Wife's Clothes 


2. 


Bus- 


Taxes 


2. Life Insurance 




Eggs, Cheese 


3. 


Child A Clothes 




iness 


2. Business 


3. Payment on 


3. 


Fruit, Vegetables 


4. 


Child B Clothes 




Car- 


Carfare 


Bonds, House, 


4. 


Milk, Cream, But- 


5. 


ChUd C Clothes 




fare 


3. Fuel for 


etc. 




ter, Ice 






3. 


Fuel 


Heating 


4. New Buildings or 


5. 


Outside Meals 






4. 




4. Repairs 


Additions 










5. 


Yard 


and Dec- 


5 














orating 
5. Yard Ex- 
penses 


OPERATING 


ADVANCEMENT 


LUXURIES 


PERSONAL 


1. Fuel, Light, Wa- 


L 


Educational: 


L 


Tobacco, Candy, 


1. 


Man's Personal 


ter, Telephone 




Books, Maga- 




etc. Personal 


2. 


Wife's Personal 


2. Wages: Service, 




zines, Papers, 




Service 


3. 


Child A Personal 


Laundry Ex- 




Stationery 


2. 


Entertainment, 


4. 


Child B Personal 


pense 


2. 


Health: Physician, 




Travel, (Club 


5. 


Child C Personal 


3. Equipment Re- 




Dentist, Medi- 




Dues?) 






pairs, Replace- 




cine 


3. 


Gifts, Tips, Flow- 






ments, Up-keep 


3. 


Church, Red Cross, 




ers, Jewelry, etc. 






4. Income and Per- 




etc. 


4. 


Auto Expense, 






sonal Tax, War 


4. 


Music, Theatre 




Taxi 










(Movies?) 


5. 








5. Miscellaneous 


5. 









78 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



It is obvious that the key can be changed or modified to suit each 
family or individual using the check book. If preferred the United 
States Department of Agriculture classes of food might be used, i.e., 

1 Fruits and vegetables; 2 Milk, cheese, eggs, meat, fish, and legumes; 
3 Cereal products (also sugar, etc.); 4 Fats — butter, cream, lard, and 
oils; 5 Meals Outside. Under the Clothing column for personal account- 
ing the following sub-di\-isions might be used: 1 Ready-made clothing; 

2 Dress goods and making; 3 Underclothes, etc., 4 Footwear, 5 Cleaning 
and repairs. If the above or similar sub-divisions are to be kept, it will 
be necessary to indicate them on the check record. For example, in 
the first check recorded (fig. 1), the (2) after the word "dressmaking" 
indicates that the expense was for wife's clothing. 



WEEK 0F_ 



19- 



SPENT FOR 


S'jnday 


Mondry 


luBJday j^'edn^sday | 


SAVINGS 












OBCCEHIES 
TRUIT, VEG. 










s 


MEAT. FISH 












MILK, CBEA» 
BUTTER 












MEALS 

OUTSIDE 












READY MADE 










5 


GOODS AND 
MAKING 










s 


UNDERWEAR 
SHOES ETC- 












REPAIRS 
CLEANING 










■RENT. CARFAKE 












GAS. ELECT. 










i 


WAGES 
LAUNDRY 










^ 


WAR TAXES 
PER. TAX 










^ 


EOUC«- 
TIONAL 










^z 


HEALTH 










< 


CHURCH 
PED CROSS 










-JU) 


TOBACCO 
CANDY, ETC. 










3- 












PERSONAL 










TOTAL 











Thusdcy 


Fndiv 


Silurdcy !! '(GIAL 


L";t:-,iaie 




ii 


































































J 








i 










1 











































































































AMT. ON HAND - S 
AHT. RECEIVED - $_ 
SUM -$ 



MONEY LEFT $ 
SUM' $' 



Fig. 3 



To obtain cash, it is an easy matter to have checks cashed by local 
trades people, or at any bank. The last check recorded in figure 1 
shows how such cash expenditures might be distributed. A Budget 
Memorandum card, folding to calling card size, has been designed to 
keep tract of personal allowances and cash expenditures, or the Weekly 
Allowance Book, illustrated in figure 3, might be used. The illustration 



1921] PRACTICAL BUDGET ACCOUNTING 79 

is full size, making a little book small enough for the pocket book. The 
Weekly Allowance Book is designed more particularly to keep track of 
what becomes of the weekly pay envelope where the family does not 
use a checking account. 

For emergencies and to obviate the necessity of carrying much cur- 
rency in the purse, one or two blank checks may be taken from the 
back of the check book and carried in the pocket book. When used, 
the expenditures should be recorded in the next check recording space, 
the next check detached and carried as a new blank check. 

The special interleaf illustrated is designed for the small size checks, 
three checks to the sheet. Each record page provides for recording 
15 checks and is followed by five sheets or 15 checks. This makes a 
convenient sized check book, about the width of this page and one and 
one-half inches shorter. A check book, containing 300 checks is less 
than one-half an inch thick. The special interleaves with page of direc- 
tions and table for a yearly summary of expenditures may be obtained 
by any bank or individual at small expense.^ The banks usually have on 
hand unbound small sized checks or, if not, the large sized checks may 
be used. The banks will have the books made up without charge or 
at moderate cost. 

I have tried out the Accounting Check Book in my own family for 
three months and it is a decided success. Even now, we have been 
"shocked into reform" on certain expenditures. We are about ready 
to draw up a yearly budget for our family, a family that is decidedly not 
"theoretical." At the end of the year, we shall have a permanent record 
of every penny received and expended and I am certain we shall have 
obtained more satisfaction and more permanent value for our money. 
It is a great relief to know exactly "where you are at" financially in these 
uncertain times. 

^ The special interleaves may be obtained at 35 cents per set, and the Weekly Allowance 
Book at 10 cents each of the American School of Home Economics, 506 W. 69th St., Chicago. 
S- mple pages on request. 



80 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

SOME DON'TS FOR THE CONSUMER OF GAS^ 

Don't burn lamps in daytime or use lamps that are improperly 
adjusted. Each incandescent mantle burner has an adjusting device 
at the base for regulating the air and gas. Both must be adjusted to 
secure the maximum illumination without any hissing or roaring sound. 

Don't use more gas under the hot-water tank, than is necessary. 

Don't burn gas without proper air mixture. If the mixture is not 
correct a wasteful flame will be produced, A pale blue flame will give 
the most efiicient results. 

Don't turn the gas on for cooking until the vessel is ready for use. 
Turn it off immediately when the cooking operation is completed. 

Don't use gas at high pressure with long flames. Short flames, if 
properly directed, consume less gas for the same cooking operation. 

Don't turn the gas high after the cooking vessel boils. You can not 
make the food any hotter. It wiU simply boil and no more. After the 
contents begin to boil the same temperature can be maintained with a 
smaller gas consumption. 

Don't burn gas in a furnace without automatic thermostat control. 
Such an automatic device is always on the job, ready to prevent the 
over-heating of rooms, and therefore waste of gas, in addition to keeping 
the room at a uniform temperature. The cost of such an automatic 
device is not large and it wiU soon pay for itself in the saving of gas. 

Don't keep rooms at over 68°. Don't keep windows or doors open 
for other than ventilating purposes; lower the temperature of the room 
by turning down the gas. 

Don't burn gas in an ordinary coal furnace. It is wasteful and its 
use requires much more gas for the same heat delivered into the room 
than is required with specially built natural-gas furnaces. 

Don't permit gas leaks on the premises. But never hunt for a leak 
with a match or light. The easiest way is to put soap-suds over the 
pipe or connection suspected. If gas is escaping the soapsuds wiU 
bubble. In many houses where tests have been made it has been found 
that about one-sixth of the total gas that passed through the meter 
was wasted by leaking pipe and fixtures. 

p{?^ These directions are given with especial reference to natural gas, but nearly all of them 
apply equally to the manufactured product. They are quoted from Use and Conserva- 
tion of Natural Gas, issued originally by the United States Fuel Administration, and 
reissued by the Perm. State Supt. of Public Instruction, especially for use in schools. 



19211 



MORE FACTS ABOUT THE FARM WOMAN 



81 



MORE FACTS ABOUT THE FARM WOMAN 

In Reply to Questions Forming Part of the Farm Home Survtey, 

1919 



Kitchen arrangement 



Eastern 

Central , 

Western 

33 States 

Number of answers 

Eastern 

Central 

Western 

2)3 States 



DISTANCE FROM WORK TABLE 


TO OTHER POINTS 


To sink 


To stove 


To cellar 
door 


To kitchen 
pantry 


To dining 
table 


steps 


steps 


steps 


steps 


steps 


5 


4 


9 


7 


9 


4 


4 


11 


5 


8 


3 


3 


14 


6 


8 


4 


4 


11 


6 


8 



HEIGHT 
OP WORK 

TABLE 



2684 


2931 


2924 


2875 


2880 


im 


3565 


3502 


3281 


3537 


1091 


1908 


1461 


1436 


1875 


6502 


8404 


78S7 


7592 


8292 



inches 

30 
30 
31 
30 



2913 
3563 
1924 
8400 



Sewing done by homemaker 



Eastern . . 

Central . . 
Western . . 
33 States. 



OWN I7NDERWEAR 


OWN OUTER 
GARMENTS 


children's 
clothing 


men's 
clothing 


AU 

Per 
cent 


Part 


None 

per 
cent 


All 

per 
cent 


Part 


None 

per 
cent 


All 


Part 

per 
cent 


None 


Part 


None 

per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 
cent 


20 


55 


25 


15 


60 


25 


21 


51 


28 


24 


76 


17 


58 


25 


21 


65 


14 


27 


49 


24 


23 


77 


22 


58 


20 


28 


60 


12 


33 


44 


23 


25 


75 


19 


57 


24 


21 


62 


17 


27 


48 


25 


24 


76 



AVERAGE 
WEEKLY 
MENDING 



hours 

3.44 
3.69 
3.25 
3.50 



Number of answers: 












Eastern 


3293 


3272 


2379 


2920 


2790 


Central 


4094 


4113 


3378 


3763 


3324 


Western 


2315 


2336 


1904 


2077 


1887 


33 States 


9702 


9721 


7661 


8760 


8001 







82 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

CLEAN RESTAURANTS 

A movement to make restaurants cleaner is important to a large 
majority of households, for many members of the family take at least 
one meal regularly away from home, aside from the occasional meal 
that others indulge in. 

It is thus a household as well as a commercial step forward that is 
marked by the formation of a national association of restaurant pro- 
prietors, with sanitation as its fundamental principle. Their statement 
reads as follows: "The long felt want of cleaner restaurants has been 
keenly realized by the leaders in this industry who have begun to know 
that the reputation of the restaurant business has been badly damaged 
by those in the industry who are not running strictly clean places. The 
association was organized for the purpose of educating the restaurateur 
regarding the importance of sanitation in his business, and more than 
that, to guide the public to these places which are striving to run on a 
clean basis." 

That patrons desire clean food served in a cleanly and sanitary 
manner goes without saying. It is doubtful if restaurateurs could 
adopt any measure that would be so conducive to increased business 
as the simple provision of strict cleanliness yet it is strange that such 
comment as this should be even possible. It is stranger still that it 
should be necessary to form a national association to stimulate activity 
in making restaurants clean. We know, however, that where strict 
supervision can not be maintained, the stimulation of pride will generally 
bring results. 

The California State Board of Health, from whose bulletin the above 
statement is taken, welcomes this organization and will assist it in every 
way possible in its endeavor to pro\'ide cleaner public eating places. 
Other state boards of health should do all that they can to help the 
movement to grow and succeed. Particularly important is this since 
so much evidence has been accumulating to show that unsterilized 
table utensils — spoons, forks, cups, glasses — may be the commion source 
of carrying influenza from one person to another. 



EDITORIAL 

The Sheppard-Towner Bill. It would be surprising, except from 
former experience, that such a bill as the so-called Maternity Bill should 
not quickly pass both Senate and House. Even though there has been 
the usual inertia of Congress to overcome, and the reluctance to enact 
at this short session any legislation involving the expenditure of money, 
this bill has been so generally approved, and is so much needed, that it is 
difficult to understand why decided opposition should have been aroused. 

The bill is largely an outgrowth of the experience of the Children's 
Bureau. When, outside of the devastated regions of Europe, only three 
countries (Chile, Spain, and Japan) have a higher infant mortality than 
the United States, it seems time that we undertake vigorous measures to 
further instruction, such as this bill calls for, in the hygiene of maternity. 

Miss Lathrop at the hearing before the House Committee said, 

"According to the most reliable obtainable data the United States 
has the highest maternal death rate in a list of 17 civilized countries, and 
the chances of a child surviving its first year in this country are worse 
than in 10 other countries 

"This bill for the protection of maternity and infancy is one result of 
the social studies of the bureau interpreted into a plan of constructive 
public action, whose methods of care have been proven sound by many 
experiments here and abroad." 

The bill asks for a Federal Board of Maternal and Infant Hygiene 
under the Department of Labor, with the Chief of the Children's Bureau 
as executive ofhcer. The Secretary of Labor, the Surgeon General of 
the U. S. Public Health Service, and the Commissioner of Education 
are members of the board. 

The bill passed the Senate with some amendments on December 18, 
and has been delayed ever since in a Committee of the House, which 
has been gi^dng extended hearings both to those who favor and those 
who oppose the bill. 

Attention, please ! The Journal office frequently receives letters 
from those wanting positions, and occasionally from those with positions 
to fill, and has been able sometimes to bring the two into touch with 
one another. It has not had facilities however to carry on acceptably 

83 



84 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

work of this kind. We propose now to reserve such space as is needed 
in our advertising columns for the insertion of advertisements at a low 
rate. If those who know now that they desire a position for next year 
should immediately insert such a notice it would be possible for those 
wishing teachers to communicate with them in time. The Journal 
will be glad to forward letters to any using its columns in this way when 
they desire not to publish name and address. 

OPEN FORUM 

The Supply of Home Economics Teachers. In May, 1920 a ques- 
tionnaire was sent out from Pratt Institute to institutions training 
teachers of home economics and listed in 1918-19 as having five or more 
on the faculty, and also to New York State institutions training such 
teachers. Twenty-eight questionnaires were sent and twenty answers 
were received — a fine proportion.^ 

Comparisons are very hard to make, but a few significant facts were 
clear. First, these 20 schools graduated about 600 teachers in 1920. 
Second, in 12 of the schools showing a final increase, there was a falling 
off in one of the war years, 1915 to 1918. Third, 6 schools showed fewer 
students entering in 1919 than in 1913, 12 showed more students enter- 
ing; but the total increase of students entering 18 schools in 1919, as 
compared with the number entering in 1913, is the surprisingly small 
number of 7 1 . It is true, of course, that there are many new centers of 
training. It is true also that many freshmen in home economics in uni- 
versities never intend to teach, and others never reach that goal. The 
increase in the large centers of training is certainly inadequate in consid- 
eration of the need of large numbers of additional well trained teachers 
of home economics. 

Isabel Ely Lord. 

Teaching Budgets and Accounts in Grades and High Schools. 

The Department of Household Economics, Teachers College, New 'i ork 
City, sent a letter of inquiry last spring to city supervisors of home 
economics regarding the amount and kind of instruction offered in the 
study of children's own accounts and budgets and household accounts 
and budgets in the grades and high school work in home economics 

1 The two largest training centers in New York State — Cornell and Teachers College — 
did not reply, and are therefore not included in the figures. 



1921] THE OPEN FORUM 85 

classes under their supervision. Twenty-six city supervisors sent replies 
giving some facts as to the teaching of budgets and accounts under 
their direction. 

The following summary has been compiled and is here printed as of 
general interest. In the summary the letter "Y" indicates Yes; the 
letter "N," No; while "N R" indicates that no reply was given on the 
particular question. 

Is any instruction given on children's personal accounts and budgets 
in the grades? Y 11, N 7, N R 8. Offered in 6th, 7th, and 8th grades. 

Is such instruction given by special lessons? Y7,N7,NR12. 

Is such instruction given by incidental instruction in other lessons? 
Y12,N3,NR11. 

Is such instruction given through definite food work? Y 10, N 2, 
N R 14. 

Is such instruction given through definite clothing work? Y 15, 
N4,NR7. 

Are pupils in the grades required to keep their own personal accounts? 
Y 3, N 20, N R 1, two "help and encourage such accounts." 

Three reported accounts kept respectively for 1 month — 1 term — 1 
year. 

Is instruction given to children in the grades in regard to household 
accounts and budgets? Y 14, N 5, N R 3. Four gave incidental 
instruction. Offered to 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th grades. 

The time given varied from "little" and "one hour" to "10-12 hours." 

In the high school is any instruction given to children regarding their 
own personal budgets? Y 18, N 1, N R 2. Three gave incidental 
instruction. Two schools had no economic work in high school. 

Are high school students required to keep personal accounts? Y 15, 
N 7, N R 2. Two gave no work in home economics. 

The time for which personal accounts are kept varies from 1 month 
to 3 years. 

In the high school is time given to household accounts and budgets? 
N 1, N R 7. Thirteen reported defijiite time given, 3 incidental instruc- 
tion, 2 no home economics in high school. 

Is high school home project work required in keeping accounts of 
student's family? Y 6, N 6, N R 12. Two reported "to some extent." 

Benjamin R. Andrews. 

Students' Time Record. Several institutions have made a practice 
of asking students to check up the amount of time required for their 
various daily tasks. This has been done particularly in the case of 



86 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

home economics students by those living in practice houses where it 
has been customary to make schedules of the daily household tasks and 
keep time records. Cornell University, for example, has a time record 
sheet which students fill out showing the amount of time required for 
various tasks in the practice house. The Department of Agriculture 
in an investigation as to the amount of time for household tasks used 
a record form in the investigation carried on under the direction of 
Ilena Bailey in Missouri, Illinois, and Michigan beginning about 1914. 

An experiment was tried at Teachers College last year of asking 
students in Household Arts to keep a time record for three days as to 
the number of minutes spent in various acti\'ities. A record sheet was 
given in which the various items were classified under personal activities, 
university activities, and housekeeping. The record sheet carried a 
list of about fifteen items down its left margin, and across the top were 
listed, in columns, the hours of the day from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., with a 
similar column headed "total minutes" at the extreme right. Students 
were to write down during the day in the appropriate columns the num- 
ber of minutes spent in different activities. A summary of eighty one-day 
records showed a statement of the minimum amount of time, the maxi- 
mum amount of time, and the "mean" amount of time given by the 
students as follows: Care of person, minimum of 20 minutes up to a 
maximum of 120 minutes a day, with the mean time 70 minutes. Exer- 
cise, from to 140 minutes with the mean 41. Meals, from 20 to 120 
with the mean 81. Social and recreation, from to 360 with the mean 
81. Rest, from to 240 with the mean 27. Waste time, from to 
120 with the mean 32. Class attendance, from to 480 with the 
mean 240. Study, from to 480 with the mean 89. Field work, from 
to 260 with the mean 120. Care of room, from to 140 with the 
mean 21. Preparation of meals (for d>2 keeping house) from 20 to 180 
with the mean 60. Sewing and mending, from to 180 with the 
mean 0. (40 students did no sewing; of the 32 who did sew and mend 
the time given varied from 1 to 180 minutes, with the mean 40.) The 
zero reports indicate no time given on the day in question. The num- 
ber answering varied somewhat for different questions. 

The students who kept the record spoke in several cases of the personal 
benefit derived from the experience. While the arithmetical values 
given above are not supposed to have any far reaching significance 
they do give some indication of the amount of time required for various 
tasks in student life and something, at least, of the general distribution 
of the students' time. 

Benjamin R. Andrews. 



1921] THE QUESTION BOX 87 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: Can you tell me how to make the Armenian matzoon and 
the Greek matzoon? What is the method of preparation of these sour 
milk articles? 

Answer: I do not believe it will be possible for anyone in this country 
to make exactly the same article as is made in Armenia and Greece. 
Matzoon is a fermented milk in which two kinds of fermentation are 
prominent. One of these is the lactic acid fermentation which causes 
the milk to sour. This is produced by a special race of lactic acid bac- 
teria which can be purchased in drug stores under the name of Bacillus 
Bulgaricus. The other type of fermentation is caused by the growth 
of yeast and I do not know, and have not been able to ascertain, the 
variety of yeast which is present in these milks. It is, of course, a 
wild yeast and not a cultivated pure strain. Matzoon therefore, con- 
tains both lactic acid and alcohol, the yeast forming the alcohol. Mat- 
zoon differs only in very minor respects from Koumiss, Dadhi, and 
other similar sour milks used widely throughout Asia. 

As these sour milks are produced in the Balkans small amounts of a 
previous batch of curd are saved to put into the next batch of milk to 
be soured. It carries with it the bacteria and yeast necessary for the 
fermentation. The milks are almost boiled, or heated to just below 
boiling, before putting in the curd. This is to destroy all foreign organ- 
isms as far as possible. It may be that some of the large manufacturers 
of rennet or junket preparations and of Bulgaricus cultures for making 
sour mUks at soft drink stands and in the home can supply dried kernels 
of grain for the preparation of matzoon or other sour milks. 

Question: Is there any way of preserving milk for use during the time 
that the cow is dry other than keeping it in the form of cheese? What 
is the simplest method of making and keeping cheese? Is there not 
some way to preserve milk for use as milk, either by evaporation, con- 
densation, or canning that is practicable for farm use? 

Answer: The methods of preserving milk for use at a later date are 
evaporation, condensation, and canning, and also the preparation of 
dried milks. Dried milks are prepared by two processes, although 
there are a number of patents protecting minor details in several proc- 
esses. One is the Just process, in which the milk is thrown upon drums 
heated from within by steam. The milk dries within a few seconds and 



88 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Is scraped off of the rotating drums by means of a knife edge. There 
are a dozen or more brands of milk prepared by this process. The 
other method for drying millc is that in which the milk is first pasteur- 
ized and partly condensed in vacuum. The product is then sprayed 
into a large room which is thoroughly ventilated with warm air and 
evaporation takes place almost instantaneously, the solids falling like 
snow. Many believe that this process produces what is probably the 
best dried milk on the market. It has a good flavor and is very 
readily dissolved in water. 

I know of no way of preserving milk in the home other than in the 
manufacture of cheese. 

Question: What is the food value of Swiss Chard? 

Answer: Swiss Chard is one of the appetizing herbs of the cabbage 
family. It has essentially the same dietary properties as cabbage, 
lettuce, spinach, and is relatively low in energy value, but of exceptional 
value in the diet because of its content of certain mineral salts, especially 
calciimi, and because of the vitamines it contains. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



The A B C of Exhibit Planning. By Evart 

G. ROUTZAHN AND MaRY SwAIN RoUT- 

ZAHN. New York: Russell Sage Founda- 
tion, 1918, pp. 236. 

Traveling Puhlicily Campaigns. Educational 

Tours of Railroad Trains and Motor 

Vehicles. By Mary Swain Routzahn. 

New York: Russell Sage Foundation, 1920, 

pp. 142. 

The first book is a careful compilation of 
social experience up to the present in the 
use of exhibition material as a method of 
popular education in social welfare work of 
various kinds. 

The chapters answer such questions as the 
following: Why do you wish to have an 
exhibit? Who should see it? What will 
you do with it? What do you wish to say 
in exhibit form? What forms will best ex- 
press your facts? How will you utilize the 
floor space? How shall the exhibit be in- 
terpreted? How organized, how advertised, 
how followed up, and the cost? 

Two illustrative plans are given — one for a 
state campaign centering around a traveling 
exhibit and one a continuous educational 
exhibit. The appendices discuss the exhibit 
budget, outlines for committee work, a baby 
week exhibit, and a typical explainer's talk. 
A bibliography follows. 

Home economics workers should realize 
that the use of exhibit material is an art in 
itself which they can study to the great 
benefit of the Home Economics Movement. 
Those who are trying to do health work with 
children, for example, are finding that post- 
ers are a most useful method. Extension 
workers and even the class room teachers 
will get suggestions from this book. Classes 
for teachers in methods of teaching home 
economics, as in the methods of all subjects 
with strong social relationships, should be 



acquainted with the book and work upon 
the problems which it treats. 

The second book brings together informa- 
tion regarding the many experiments in 
recent years in using trains, trolleys, auto- 
mobile trucks and other transportation 
methods in connection with educational ex- 
hibi work. There are chapters on the pur- 
poses and advantages of traveling campa gns, 
on the different types of trains, including 
those for agricultural instruction, health 
work, war propaganda, safety first. An- 
other chapter deals with motor vehicle 
campaigns including traveling dispensaries, 
child welfare work, speaking tours, and 
"carrying the canning kitchen to the food 
supply." Various problems of organization 
and administration are discussed in succes- 
sive chapters as follows: Advanced pub- 
licity and organization; The message of the 
tour; Exhibit cars; The tour of the truck or 
train; and Follow-up work. The book 
includes also a reference list of train, truck, 
trolley, and other traveling campaigns and 
a bibliography. 

Home economics workers who are touch- 
ing the extension work field will find this 
volume indispensable in that it brings to- 
gether the best experience both in this coun- 
try and abroad on traveling publicity 
methods. Mrs. Routzahn has done a great 
service in adding this volume to the '' Survey 
& Exhibit Series" of which the initial volume 
is the "A B C of Exhibit Planning." The 
old idea that anybody can plan an exhibit 
or work out publicity plans should rapidly 
give way to a recognition of the demonstrated 
fact that we have, in publicity work, an art 
calling for the nicest sort of discrimination 
and one to which psychology and sociology 
and other sciences are making real contribu- 
tions. 

B. R. Andrews. 

89 



90 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



Furniture for Small Houses. Percy A. 

Wells. New York: E. P. Button & Co., 

pp. 35, plates 57. $7.00. 

Thoughtful obsen^ers of the growth of 
national taste, as illustrated in the archi- 
tectural and art magazines, cannot fail to 
be impressed and pleased with the evident 
strong trend towards better housing con- 
ditions; even tenements and small apart- 
ments deriving the benefit of the best archi- 
tectural skill. OvNTiers are awaking to the 
spirit of the times. Because of cooperation 
and foresight it is now possible for an ever 
increasing number of people to live pleasantly 
in small homes of far better design than 
ever before. When the little house is the 
unit of a group it is a problem for an archi- 
tect and he will insist upon giving the 
people the beauty as well as comfort, which 
human beings need to be self-respecting. 

It is reasonable to hope that our America 
is gradually grov,ing to be an art loving as 
well as an art producing country. From 
the older nations much has come to help 
us. Needs and desires are not strikingly 
different on opposite shores of the Atlantic 
and we can all profit by the experience of 
the others. 

For instance, from England comes this 
book, called "Furniture for Small Houses," 
describing the results of experiments, at the 
Shoreditch Technical Institute, to reduce to 
the simplest possible terms, good form and 
construction in furniture. There are no 
startling innovations, no strange novelties 
in the pieces, but each one designed for the 
world-old human needs seems to represent 
the culmination of careful, intelligent study 
and choice. The book is fuUy illustrated 
with photographs and scale dra\\'ings of all 
the articles, a variety of them, for every use, 
and has a very readable text. 

In addition to his study of materials, 
sizes, and methods, Mr. Wells has thought 
of design. However plain, none of his pieces 
is ordinary. Each one has a distinction of 
line and is thoroughly good proportion. 
There is almost no enrichment except in a 
little strap carving or beveling but the cor- 
ners have been rounded off graciously and 



the square legs have been chamfered and 
tapered off on the inside — little easy refine- 
ments that count much and cost only 
thought. His adaptation of the gate leg 
table, brought up to date, is interesting and 
practical, and his various economies of 
space are also suggestive. 

There are suggestions for finishes which 
are desirable, the most unusual one being 
the use of paint with a "combed" pattern 
for decoration. The comb is the tool for- 
merly used in the atrocious process of "grain- 
ing," now fortunately out of style. The 
new and legitimate use of the tool opens 
up many possibilities. The furniture is first 
painted a pleasing color, as, green and later 
a different one, as blue. Before the blue is 
dry, the steel comb is employed over the 
desired area and a design, wavy or curved 
perhaps, is etched out, showing the under 
coat of green. 

The effect, though quiet must be irides- 
cent and very attractive. Incidentally, 
painted furniture has fine decorative value 
and cheers up an interior wonderfully. 

Naturally the owner or tenant of a better 
home has an added incentive and oppor- 
tunity to express his taste in furnishing it. 
The necessary furniture ought to be good to 
look at as well as to use and he may be 
more restrained and thoughtful in buying 
it. Fortunately the furniture makers are 
producing many well designed articles of 
simple lines and moderate cost. Schools of 
industrial training are striving for better 
design and the people are gradually develop- 
ing better appreciation. 

Such a book as ^Slr. WeUs' should have a 
wide circulation in school libraries, in shops, 
and in homes to stimulate and encourage 
the practical with the artistic in our own 
efforts. 

Ruth Robinson Treganza, 
Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Food Facts for the Homemaker. By Lucille 

Stimson Harvey. Boston: Houghton, 

Mifflin Company, 1920, pp. 314. $2.50. 

During recent years many of the more 

reliable books dealing with food problems 

have been prepared for classroom study 



1921] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



91 



rather than for home use. For this reason 
Mrs. Harvey's book represents a somewhat 
unusual type, for she has tried to combine in 
it what she feels will prove helpful to home- 
makers on the basis of her experience as 
college teacher, a homcmaker, and the town 
dietitian at the Brookline Food Center. 

She wishes her book to be of special help 
to the young housewife and she provides 
much detailed information not only with 
reference to methods of food selection and 
preparation but also with reference to food 
composition, menu making, and food for 
children and invalids. Much of the mate- 
rial should prove helpful also to the older 
housekeeper with a wider range of experience 
in solving food difficulties. 

The text is well written and most of the 
statements seem based on accurate and up- 
to-date information. A considerable num- 
ber of recipes are included and these seem 
varied and appetizing. However, effort is 
made to group these recipes according to 
nutritive function rather than in the way 
customary in cook books. This is better 
in some ways but is confusing at times. 
For instance, soup recipes are scattered 
through various chapters. Recipes for cer- 
tain cooked vegetables are found in Chapter 
X under the heading Fruits and Vegetables, 
while fruit and vegetable salads are in Chap- 
ter XI under the heading Fats; apple sauce 
and various fruit desserts are in Chapter 
XII on Sugar; and pickles and preserves are 
combined with beverages in a chapter enti- 
tled Food Accessories. Cake and cake fillings 
are placed under the heading Flour Mix- 
tures, while simple desserts containing no 
larger proportion of sugar are placed in the 
Sugar chapter and recipes for cookies are 
in the chapter on Food for School Children. 

It is doubtless desirable to teach women 
to think of the type of food value repre- 
sented in the various parts of a menu, but 
the diflaculties of applying such a classifi- 
cation to complex combinations of different 
kinds of foodstuffs is well illustrated in this 
book and would seem to interfere with its 
value in actual home use. 

EuMA A. WmsLow. 



Laboratory Course in Physics of the House- 
hold. By Carlton John Lynde, Ph.D., 
Professor of Physics in Macdonald Col- 
lege, Canada. New York: The Macmil- 
lan Company, 1919, pp. 146. S0.90. 
This book has been especially planned to 
accompany Physics of the Household by the 
same author, and covers the ground recom- 
mended by the College Entrance Board. 
The preface states that it differs from simi- 
lar courses in these ways: it contains exer- 
cises as well as experiments; it requires the 
use of the common weights and measures 
side by side with the metric system; it uses 
much apparatus familiar to the student; and 
it encourages the student to set up a labora- 
tory in his own home. A list of apparatus 
for a home laboratory is given. 

Household equipment and processes are 
used whenever possible to illustrate the appli- 
cation of the laws of physics. For example, 
the exercises on lever appliances deal with 
the tack lifter, scissors, can opener, nut 
cracker, potato ricer, knife, fork, spoon, 
broom, fire tongs, coffee mill, ice cream 
freezer, bread mixer — the last three to illus- 
trate the wheel and axle. In a similar 
manner kitchen measuring appliances, water 
supply plumbing, gas plumbing, fire extin- 
guishers, and the vacuum cleaner illustrate 
other principles of mechanics. 

Heat includes exercises on thermometers, 
the kitchen range, the heating system, the 
hot water boiler, the fireless cooker, thermos 
bottles, refrigerators, fuels; while electricity, 
light, and sound use the same wealth of 
household illustration. 

The book is excellent, not only for home 
economics students, but for any high school 
student. No boy or girl could complete such 
a course without an added interest in the 
home and the every day processes that are 
continually carried on there. 

Professor Lynde was at one time in charge 
of the work in physics in the University 
High School, University of Chicago. 

Alice P. Norton. 



92 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



Ladies of Grecourt. By Ruth Gaines. New 
York: E. P. Button and Company, 1920, 
pp. 246. 

Ladies of Grecourt might be called the 
ofl&cial history of the Smith College Relief 
Unit in the Somme, written as it is by Miss 
Gaines who served mth the Unit for many 
months. As such, it at once claims the 
interest of the alumnae and friends of Smith 
College who supported and followed this 
pioneer woman's college unit during its three 
years of active service. The book, however, 
has a wider appeal. Those concerned with 
home economics in its broad sense and with 
the progress women made in public work 
during the war, will find much to interest 
them in Miss Gaines' discussion of conditions 
in the sixteen villages in Picardy assigned 
to the Unit by the French Government. 
Housing and house furnishing, sanitation, 
clothing, and nutrition were some of their 
problems. That the Unit succeeded to a 
remarkable degree in its efforts to solve 
these problems can be judged from the trib- 
ute paid by a boy in one of the schools it 
helped to re-establish: 



"When you return to your noble country, 
the void caused by your departure will be 
great for us, but in spite of the distance be 
sure that we shall never forget 'the good 
American ladies of Grecourt.' " 

Ruth Van Deman. 

Bibliography on the Nutritive Value of Corn. 
A bibliography of interest to food students 
is being issued by the Research Information 
Service of the National Research Council at 
Washington. It is "A Bibliography of In- 
vestigations Bearing on the Composition 
and Nutritive Value of Corn and Com Prod- 
ucts," prepared by M. Helen Keith at the 
Illinois Agricultural Experiment Station. 
About 1200 articles and station bulletins are 
listed and fuUy classified with regard to the 
specific subjects investigated. This is a 
limited edition in mimeograph form and is 
sold at §2.00 a copy. Those who are doing 
or directing food research, or for any other 
reason wish to look up the literature of any 
phase of the questions of the feeding value 
of com or any of the many food products 
made from com would find this bibliography 
of great help. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

CURRENT PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Compiled by Margaeet Norton 

Pood 

Calcium Requirement of Man. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., Dec. 11, 1920. 

Diabetic Dietary'. Edward E. Cornwall, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., Dec. 11, 1920. 

Neglected Possibilities of Dietotherapy. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Asstt., Dec. 4, 
1920. 

Germicidal Action in Milk. W. H. Chambers, Jour. Bacteriol., Dec. 1920. 

Milk Powder Agar for the Determination of Bacteria in Milk. S. H. Ayers and C. S. 
Mudge, Jour. Bacteriol., Dec. 1920. 

Growth on Diets Poor in True Fats. J. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel. Jour. Biol. 
Chem., Dec. 1920. 

American Progress in the Bacteriological Sugars. E. H. Eitel, Jour. Indus, and Engin. 
Chem., Dec. 1920. 

Orange Vinegar. H. D. Poore, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., Dec. 1920. 

Direct Identification of Soy-bean Oil. C. A. Newhall, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 
Dec. 1920. 

Studies on Technical Casein. M. Clark, H. F. Zoller, A. O. Dahlberg, and A. C. Weimar. 
Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., Dec. 1920. 



1921] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 93 

Bread Without Flour. Alfred Graderaitz, Popular Set. Mo., Dec. 1920. 
Food Tastes and Food Prejudices of Men and Dogs. Vilhjalmer Stefansson, Sci. Mo., 
Dec. 1920. 

Shelter 

Building a Nation, Social Aspects of England's Housing Problems. Lawrence Veiller, 
Architectural Rec, Nov. 1920. 

American Furniture and the Designer. H. W. Frohne, Good Furniture Magazine, Dec. 
1920. 

Are You Selling Textiles By the Yard? W. L. Harris, Good Furniture Magazine, Dec. 
1920. 

How England is Meeting the Housing Shortage. Lawrence Veiller, Housing Betterment, 
Sept. 1920. 

Furniture Fashions of Long Ago. F. J. Bryant, Manual Training Magazine. Dec. 1920. 

Wanted, an Inexpensive House. Harry A. Mount. Sci. Amer., Dec, 11, 1920. 

Miscellaneous 

German War Substitutes. A. Belter, Amer. Sci. Mo., Dec. 1920. 

Economic and Social Conditions in Germany: National Hygienic and Economic Condi- 
tions, Arthur Schlossman; Food Conditions and Agricultural Production, Dr. Huber; Hous- 
ing Problems in Germany, Walther de Laporte; Child Feeding Work in Germany, R. L. 
Cary, Annals of the American Academy, Nov. 1920. 

Surface Tension of Certain Soap Solutions and Their Emulsifying Powers. Mollie G. 
White and J. W. Marden, Jour. Fhys. Chem., Nov. 1920. 

Nutritional Work in Public Schools (Chicago). Katharine B. Rich, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assn., Nov. 27, 1920. 

Method of Classifying Families According to Income in Studies of Disease Prevalence. 
Edgar Sydenstricker and Wilford King, U. S. Pub. Health Reports, Nov. 26, 1920. 

TEXTILES 

Compiled by Mabel Trilling 

Fibre 

An Experiment with ^Milkweed. Gilbert R. Merrill, Textile World Jour., Mar. 20, 
1920. Description of the experiment of making into yam and cloth. Deficiencies as a 
textile. 

Raw Silk and Many Uses. Textile World Jour., Nov. 20, 1920. Piece goods — all-silk 
or part-silk, taffeta, satin, and crepe weaves. Satin — warp must be aU-silk; weft can be 
medium quality. Taffeta requires good grade of silk. Crepes highly twisted thread used. 

Flax Fibre Substitutes. Textile World Jour., Nov. 27, 1920. Hard fibres impossible. 
Sisal and jute unsuitable. Ramie used in ousting or in combination with flax; not good for 
fabrics because of expense and trouble of retting and degumming. Used in table damask. 
Unsuitable for collars and cuffs because it cracks when folded. Hemp used as flax sub- 
stitute must be softened to be successfully used; difficult to spin evenly. 

Artificial Silk Manufacture in France. Textile World Jour., Feb. 14, 1920. Its origin 
and development. Kinds of artificial silk. Methods of determing the various sorts of 
artificial silks. 

Silk Culture in the Philippines. Ralph H. Butz, Textile World Jour., Jan. 24, 1920 
American grown silk is coming to be considered a necessity. Success will attend the efforts. 



94 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

to establish the production of raw silk in the Philippines. The desirable features in the 
Philippines for the silk industry. 

Cotton and the Automobile Tire. Branwell, Textile World Jour., July 10, 1920. Dis- 
cussion of cotton as the major part of tire. Kinds to be used. Kinds formerly used. 

Wool Propaganda. Textile World Jour., Vol. 58, p. 65 (203). Wool dropped from 50 
per cent to 75 per cent at shearing time. Effort of wool growers association to hold product. 
Fleeces held in Australia for two years. 

Dyeing Linen Fabrics. Textile World Jour., Aug. 28, 1920. Linen fibres do not absorb 
readily the direct dyestuffs so the rate of absorption is modified by a delaying process by: 
diminishing salt, or increasing soda ash, or addition of turkey red oil or soap. 

Effect of Twist on Cotton Yam. Textile World Jour., Aug. 14, 1920. Elasticity of 
yam varies directly with twist. Increase in twist increases strength up point to multi- 
plier of 4.25 and then strength decreases as twist increases. 

New Type of Lace. Textile World Jour., Mar. 13, 1920. New ideas being used in tex- 
tures and styles. Utilizing fibres of wood, hops, nettles, broom, and potato plant. 

Crepe Yams and Fabrics. Textile World Jour., Nov. 20, 1920. Creping due to amount 
of twist causing contraction. Contractile power dependent upon size of material being 
twisted, amount of twist in thread and degree of resistance. Cloth contraction dependent 
upon the number of tums of twists to inch, the number of threads, and thickness of threads. 
Cause of finishing troubles: too much contractile power for shrinkage desired and then lie 
in stock; insufficient tums of twist for the same amount of threads in the picking. 

The Value of Shoddy. Textile World Jour., Sept. 4, 1920. Some shoddy fabrics more 
valuable than the virgin wool. Purchaser gets what he pays for. 

Standardization 

State Pure Fabric Bill. Textile World Jour., Apr. 3, 1920. Manufacturers oppose 
proposed legislation. Those favoring the bill have prejudiced the public minds conceming 
virgin wool and shoddy. Shoddy compared to noils. If the knowledge that a garment con- 
tains shoddy is of value to the public, so is the knowledge that a garment contains noils 
valuable. Real uses of shoddy. The passing of the bill will put the burden on the consumer 
for the purchaser will have to pay a higher price for a poorer quality of goods or choose 
a cloth of less value for the same price. Labelling shoddy will induce the buyer to give 
preference to virgin wool which will open the doors wide to fraud in offering a low grade of 
virgin wool at excessive prices. 

Hearings on Truth-in-Fabrics Bills. Textile World Jour., Mar. 27, 1920. Discussions of 
bills introduced by Rogers, French, Barclay and Rainey. Prejudice in favor of virgin wool 
and against shoddy has no adequate sanction. Some shoddy is better than virgin wool. 
Roger's bill protects purchaser of commodities of all kinds. This bill is known as the 
Honest ^Merchandise Act. French bill is connected specifically with woolen and worsted 
industry. 

Standardization of Dyestuffs. Textile World Jour., Vol. 58, p. 47 (267). 

To Prevent Deceit. Textile World Jour., Mar. 27, 1920. Text of bill introduced in the 
House by Representative Rainey. Object — to prevent deceit in the manufacturer's sale of 
woven fabrcs or yams. Cited as the stamped fabric law. Content — no manufacturer of 
woven fabrics, yams or articles of apparel made from either shall sell, trade, or exchange 
the same in interstate commerce unless he shall cause the same to be stamped or tagged 
in such manner as the Sec. of Commerce may designate so that the stamp or tag shall cor- 
rectly state the per cent by weight of virgin wool, reworked wool, shoddy, cotton, or silk 
contained in such fabric or yarn. The name of manufacturer shall also be included on 
said stamp or tag. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



British Research Associations. Re- 
search associations for the following trades 
have now been formed in accordance with 
the Imperial Government's scheme for the 
encouragement of scientific and industrial 
research, viz.: boot, shoe, and allied trades, 
cotton, sugar, iron manufacture, motor and 
allied manufactures, photography, Portland 
cement, woolen and worsted industries, sci- 
entific instruments, India rubber and tyre 
manufactures, linen industry, glass, choco- 
late, cocoa, sugar, confectionery, and jam 
manufacture. 

Research associations for the following 
trades are in process of formation: music 
industries, refractory materials, non-ferrous 
metals, laundering, and leather trades. 

— From The South African Journal of 
Industries, Jan., 1920. 



Martha Koehne, formerly head of the 
Chemistry Department at Wilson College, 
Pa., and chemist in the Ohio State Depart- 
ment of Health, and from 1918-1920 instruc- 
tor in biochemistry, School of Hygiene and 
Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, 
has been appointed assistant professor in the 
University of Washington to teach nutrition. 

The National Research Council and the 
National Academy of Sciences are to have 
a new home in Washington. The site for 
the building has been given through the 
generosity of a number of well known people. 
It comprises the entire block bounded by 
B and C Streets and Twenty-first and 
Twenty-second Streets, Northwest, and 
faces the Lincoln Memorial in Potomac Park. 
Funds for the erection of the building have 
been provided by the Carnegie Corporation. 



There have been some changes, during 
the last few months, in the personnel of the 
Office of E.xtension Work for Women, North 
and West, of the United States Department 
of Agriculture, Florence Ward in charge. 
Agnes Ellen Harris (whose position in Texas 
is filled by Jessie W. Harris of the University 
of Nebraska) has charge of the states in the 
Northwest section (Wash., Ore., Idaho, 
Wyo., Mont., N. D., S. D.); and ]\Irs. Edith 
C. Salisbury of those in the Southwest 
section (Cal., Utah., Nev., N. M., Ariz., 
Colo., Neb.) Grace Frj'singer is in charge 
of the Central Western section (Mo., Kan., 
Iowa, 111., Mich., Wis., Minn., Ohio, Ind.); 
while, since Miss Van Hoesen's resignation, 
no one has direct supervision of the New 
England section including the sLx New 
England states. New York, New Jersey, 
Pennsylvania, and Delaware. Miriam Birds- 
eye's work is with the specialists in the field. 



Sydney Technical College, New South 
Wales, announces a special course of instruc- 
tion for professional women in dressmaking 
and ladies tailoring. The course includes 
theoretical and practical instruction in de- 
signing and cutting, and lectures in the 
history of costume, textiles, workroom man- 
agement, bookkeeping, and a certain amount 
of instruction in drawing. It is restricted 
to women in the dressmaking trade. 

The Pittsburgh Urban League, one of the 
many branches of the National League on 
Urban Conditions among Negroes, gave help 
and instruction in 1400 homes during 1919. 
Mr. Jackson, the educational secretary, in 
seeking material for future social workers, 
though he has not yet covered the field, has 
found 450 colored students in northern 
Universities. Many of these are home 
economics students. 

95 



96 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

AJMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

With the Division of Superintent)ence, N. E. A. 

Hotel Dennis, Atlantic City, February 28 and March 1, 1921 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28 

9.00 a.m. 
President's Address 
Preliminary Business 

General Session. Mary Sweeny, President, presiding 

Topic: Does Home Economics Teaching Function as it Should for the Girl of High 
School Age? 
Home Economics in the General High School 

Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, Specialist in Home Economics, Bureau of Education 
Home Economics in the Commercial High School 

Mrs. Evelyn Wight Allan, Prin., Girls' Commer. High School, Brooklyn, N.Y. 
Experimental Work in the Merrill- Palmer School 

Edna White, Director, Merrill-Palmer School, Detroit 

2.00 p.m. General Session. Mrs. Henrietta Calvin presiding 
The Responsibility of the Home Economics Teacher to the Community 

Agnes Houston Craig, Supervisor of Home Economics, Springfield, Mass. 
Topic: Methods of Contributing to Vitality of Teaching in the Grades 
The Home Project 

Mrs. Maude Gregory Adams, State Supervisor Vocational H. E., Ohio 
The School Project f'i'^ 

Helen Goodspeed, State Supervisor of Home Economics, Wisconsin 
The Use of the School Doll as a Means of Teaching Sensible Dress 

Adelaide Laura Van Duzer, Supervisor of Home Economics, Cleveland, Ohio 
7.30 p.m. Council Meeting 

TUESDAY, MARCH 1 

9.00 a.m. General Session. Edna White presiding 
Topic: How Can the School Child Be Interested in Right Food Habits through Regular 
School Channels? 

The High School Class in Foods 

Florence WiUard, Washington Irving High School, New York 
Foods Work in the Grades 

Mabel C. Bragg, Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Newton, Mass. 
What Can the Instructor in Physical Education Contribute? 

F. W. Maroney, M.D., Dir. Physical Training, Dept. Pub. Instruction, N.J. 
What Are the Educational Possibilities of the School Lunchroom? 

Katharine A. Pritchett, Supervisor Nutrition, Dept. Pub. Instruction, Pa. 
The Standardization of Nutrition Workers 

Mary McCormick, Supervisor of Nutrition, State Dept. Education, N. Y. 

2.00 p.m. General Session. Mary Sweeny presiding 
Factors Involved in Training Girls as Consumers 

S. Helen Bridge, Head of Home Economics Education Dept., Univ. of Nebr. 
Points of Interest in Government Research Laboratories for the Home Economics 

Worker 

Minna C. Denton, Assistant Chief of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. Agr. 
Business Meeting and Reports of Committees 



Vol. xni, No. 3 March, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Auce P. Norton, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Lamgworthy Amy Daniels Ruth Wheeler Katharine Fisher 

Ex-Officio Members — Mary E. Sweeny, President American Home Economics Association 
Nola Treat, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton, Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Lilllan Peek, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Present Status of Vitamixes Katharine Blunt and Chi Che Wang 97 

Conference of Clothing Specialists 119 

The Hearing on the Home Economics Amendment to the \'ocational Education Act . 121 
For the Homemaker 

Tea Susannah Usher 127 

The Eight-Hour Day in Operation Georgie Boynlon Child 132 

Editorial 137 

Books and Liter.a.ture ' 141 

News from the Field . . 143 



The Journal op Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt wi]l be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
'the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Th« Jotjslnal or Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Bccton; 
A. C. McClurz'i, Chicago; Baltimore New* Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop. Washington 



THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 





Your biscuits, rolls, gems and other dainty 
bread-stuffs can be no better than the bak- 
ing powder with which they are made. 
Good baking powder is the leavening agent 
that makes them light and digestible. It is 
the keystone in the making of appetizing, 
wholesome cake, biscuits, muffins, etc. 

Of course, you want only the best of bak- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when you use 

ROYAL 

Baking Powder 



Made from 

Cream of Tartar 

derived from 

Grapes 

CONTAINS 

NO 

ALUM 



I 



-/ 






'mL'" '"" "' I ' 




In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home I-.conomics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIII MARCH, 1921 No. 3 

THE PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES' 

KATHARINE BLUNT 
University of Chicago 

AND 

CHI CHE WANG 

Nelson Morris Inslilute for Medical Research, Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago 

It is not a simple undertaking to summarize even the more important 
points in the recent literature on vitamines, because the subject has been 
developing very fast during the last few years, and parts of it are still 
much in debate. Information has been gained not only from laboratory 
research but from observations of the tragic human experience with 
inadequate war diets. 

The material is considered under the headings of the three vitamines 
now recognized. Fat-soluble A, for a number of years known to be 
present in butter fat, cod-liver oil, green leaves, and certain other foods, 
is necessary for normal growth and in its absence from the diet there 
often develops an eye disease known as xerophthalmia or keratomalacia. 
Water-soluble B, fairly widely distributed in plants, is necessary for 
growth and also for prevention of polyneuritis or beri-beri. Water- 
soluble C, the latest of the three to be recognized, is the antiscorbutic 
vitamine. 

1 The demand for this paper, first published in January, 1920, has been so great that the 
reprints have been exhausted for some time. It has been revised therefore and in part 
rewritten to carry the review of the literature roughly through the year 1920, and reprints 
will be available. 

The authors wish to thank Dr. Lafayette B. Mendel and Dr. E. V. McCoUum for reading 
the first edition of this paper and making important suggestions. 

97 



98 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

FAT-SOLUBLE A 

Efect of Lack of A in the Diet. Dr. H. Gideon Wells,- of the Depart- 
ment of Pathology of the University of Chicago, who served in Rou- 
mania under the Red Cross, tells a dramatic story showing the need of 
this vitamine for children. The scanty diet in Roumania, when he 
arrived, consisted of little more than a limited amount of corn-meal 
and quantities of a very thin bran-vegetable soup. There was no milk 
nor butter, for the Austrians had driven off the cows. Many of the 
children had eye disease, sometimes so severe as to cause blindness. 
There also was much of the distressing swollen condition known as 
war-edema, the latter probably due to the low calories and especially 
the low protein of the diet. Dr. Wells, at the height of his difficulties 
in getting food of any kind, learned of a vessel which had put into 
Archangel with cod-liver oil as its entire caigo. Through the efforts 
of the Red Cross all of it was sent dowm, and it saved the lives of many 
of the children. After their long fat starvation, they took readily what 
might have been refused under happier circumstances. 

In Vienna, too, since the war, where the food conditions have been 
so desperate, eye troubles have developed in children, though not to 
such an extent, apparently, as scurvy. DalyeU (1), who with Chick 
was in Vienna for a number of months, speaks of a girl who had been 
having only 10 to 15 grams of milk fat daily and who developed severe 
eye trouble. She was given 10 grams cod-liver oil and 20 grams butter 
daily, and in 14 days her eyes had completely recovered and she had 
gained 300 grams in weight. 

The need for fat-soluble A is not limited to children or young animals 
in general. Drummond (2), in London, has shown that as young rats 
approach maturity their requirement becomes markedly less. They 
can even live without it in apparently good health for considerable 
time, but sooner or later they lose weight and often have eye disease. 
They also show a distinct decrease in resistance to various infections, 
many deaths from infectious disease occurring. The older the young 
rats are the longer they can stand the inadequate diet before their 
decline. Dr. McCoUum in his lectures has reported what he believes 
to be a similar pathological eye effect in adult human beings in certain 
northern lumber camps where the only fat is cured bacon and where the 
diet must be almost completely lacking in ^1. A condition known as 

2 Personal communication. 



1921] THE PRESENT STATUS OF VIT AMINES 99 

"night-blindness" is prevalent — a defect of eyesight not noticed by the 
non-reading laborer till the dim light of night. In the Madras Presidency, 
also, eye trouble, keratomalacia, is common among the ill-fed Indians, 
whose diet is made up of polished rice, vegetable oils, and condiments. 
The treatment is cod-liver oil, attention to hygiene of the eyes, and a 
more liberal dietary (1). "There is therefore every reason," says 
Drummond, "that great care should be taken to ensure that dietaries 
of adults contain an adequate supply of foodstuffs in which the fat- 
soluble A is present." 

Rickets. Not only xerophthalmia but rickets may be connected with 
lack of the fat-soluble vitamine. It is improbable, however, that a 
deficiency of this vitamine alone produces rickets, or that the use of 
the term "anti-rachitic vitamine" is justified as synonymous with fat- 
soluble A, as some of the English investigators (3) believe. IMcCoUum, 
Simmonds, and Parsons (4) report rachitic symptoms in their rats on 
several diets with several deficiencies combined. Low fat-soluble A, 
low calcium, poor protein, unsatisfactory salt combinations, acting 
together, may aU contribute. Mellanby (5), one of the chief supporters 
of the antirachitic vitamine theory, finds that, "when the diet has a 
relatively good protein content and the animal is active, less antirachitic 
accessory factor is necessary." MeUanby cites figures of infantile 
mortality and rickets, both of which are very unusually low in a group 
of island children, for example, whose diet consists largely of fish, oat- 
meal, and eggs, especially fish liver, the two latter foods being rich in 
the "antirachitic accessory factor." 

Hess and Unger (6) in New York are very definite in their belief that 
absence of A is not the cause of rickets. They find that rickets may 
develop in children on a diet rich in milk and cream, and not on a diet 
of highly skimmed dried milk, sucrose, orange juice (for C), autolyzed 
yeast (for B), cottonseed oil, and cream of wheat. This latter diet, 
however, according to Hopkins (1), may contain, in its large amount of 
skimmed milk, a quantity of A much higher than would be expected 
from its low fat content. Rickets seems to need further investigation 
before its etiology is completely established. Whatever its etiology, 
however, it can, with very few exceptions, be cured or prevented by cod- 
liver oil, which is almost a specific (1) (7). 

Occurrence. The fat-soluble vitamine occurs in more foods than was 
at first thought, but in variable quantities. Butter fat is stiU regarded 
as the most important source, but the quantity (8) therein depends upon 



100 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

the quantity of A in the feed of the cow and upon the manipulation of 
the butter itself. (See below in connection with stability.) WTiale 
oil is another fairly rich source, though not so rich as butter. Drum- 
mond (9), with carefully standardized methods of feeding young rats 
and noting the change of weight, if any, week by week, found that he 
obtained about the same satisfactory growth when the fat-soluble A 
came wholly from 8 per cent butter fat or 20 per cent whale oil. Fish 
oils in general and fat fish may serve as valuable sources. Oleo oil, 
as shown by Osborne and Mendel several years ago, contains a fair 
amount of it, and so do oleomargarines made from oleo oil, but not the 
nut margarines made wholly from vegetable oils (10). However, as 
Steenbock (8) says, "Oleomargarines .... are not to be con- 
sidered in the same class as good butter in pro\dding the organism with 
the fat-soluble vitamine." Pig's liver oil, and liver tissue, kidney tis- 
sue, probably glandular organs in general (11) give fair supplies — that 
is, that portion of the animal of which we eat little is far superior to 
the skeleton muscle of which we eat much. 

Contrary to the usually accepted idea in regard to the lack of A in 
lard and in vegetable oils, Daniels and Loughlin (12) have found very 
distinct amounts in lard and cottonseed oil, shown only when large 
quantities were fed. Their rats grew as well when the diet contained 
28 per cent of these fats as with 5 per cent butter fat and 23 per cent 
other fat. The authors do not give information in regard to the color 
or the commercial treatment of their fats in preparation for the market. 
Drummond and Coward (13) have also reported the presence of .4 in 
a number of vegetable oils. Palm oil contains as much A as one third 
of that present in butter, while maize oil and cotton-seed oil contain 
still less. 

But ''the fat-soluble vitamine need not be sought solely in foods 
known to be rich in fats" (14). Many vegetables furnish rich sources 
of it, and their value is being more and more studied and appreciated. 
Dried spinach, alfalfa, clover, timothy, and tomato promote growth of 
rats just as satisfactorily as an equal small quantity of butter fat; pos- 
sibly they are even better. Cabbage is not so good; potato contains 
only a small quantity of this vitamjne. The dried green vegetables 
when extracted with U. S. P. ether gave a green oil equal to about 
3 per cent of the dried plant, and as minute an amount as about a drop 
of this "spinach oil" or other oil fed daily restored normal growth in 
rats. 



1921] TIIE PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 101 

It is not only leaves that contain the fat-soluble vitamine but storage 
organs of plants as well. Carrots, sweet potatoes, even yellow com, 
though lower in A than spinach and alfalfa, all contain sufiicient amounts 
for satisfactory growth (15) (16). Peas (17) also have a small quantity 
and possibly bananas (18). 

A very interesting generalization has been made by Steenbock (19) 
about the foods which contain this vitamine: they all contain yellow 
coloring matter. Butter, egg yolks, cod-liver oil are obvious examples. 
Oleo oil, the part of the beef fat which contains the vitamine, is yellow; 
the solid beef fat which lacks it is colorless. Of the commercial oleo 
oils which he has tested, those most highly pigmented are richest in the 
fat-soluble vitamine. Colored roots such as carrots and sweet potatoes 
have it, but sugar beets, mangels, dasheens, and Irish potatoes have 
nttle or none. It is probably present in orange juice but not in lemon 
or grape fruit (20). Spinach and grass, of course, have yellow associated 
with their chlorophyll, and the yellow separated from the green is found 
rich in the vitamine. Steenbock and Boutwell (21) made a deep green 
alcohol extract of alfalfa, saponified it with potassium hydroxide to 
decompose the chlorophyll and then extracted with ether, getting thus 
an orange-red extract which, on evaporation, furnished rats with a satis- 
factory source of A. The crystallized carotin isolated by Steenbock 
did not serve as a substitute for the vitamine, but carotin is a very 
labile substance and may have changed chemically in the process of 
removal. Rosenheim, Drummond, and Coward (13) (22) in London 
have confirmed and extended this view. They have found in liver tissue, 
besides carotin and xanthophyll. an unknown substance which gives 
certain lipochrome reactions and seems to be responsible for a much- 
used color test for cod-liver oil. "It appears reasonably safe, at least 
as a working hypothesis, to assume that the fat-soluble vitamine is a 
yellow plant pigment or a closely related compound." 

Are Fats or Merely the Fat-soluble Vitamine Necessary in the Diet? 
Osborne and Mendel (23) have made use of their dried alfalfa with its 
very high fat-soluble vitamine and very low fat content to study the 
question of true fat requirement. They found that their young rats 
thrived on a diet of dried alfalfa, yeast, starch, meat residue, and salts, 
—that is, a diet abnost free from true fats. ''If true fats are essential 
for nutrition during growth, the minimum necessary must be very small." 
Stability. The question of stability of the fat-soluble vitamine to 
heat has been further investigated, leaving still some uncertainty but 



102 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

with increase of evidence showing non-destruction. Steenbock, Bout- 
well, and Kent (8) and Drummond (9) a year or more ago published 
their conclusions that the fat-soluble vitamine in butter fat is readily 
destroyed by heating at 100° for 1 to 4 hours, and partially destroyed 
at even lower temperatures. Drummond, interested particularly in 
the use of hydrogenated fats as butter and lard substitutes during the 
fat shortage in England, observed that the hydrogenation of the whale 
oil at 250° for 4 hours completely destroyed A. Even heating at 100° 
for an hour had the same effect, or keeping it for 18 days at 37° spread 
out exposed to air. 

Osborne and Mendel (14), however, have since repeated their own 
earlier experiments, passing live steam for two and a half hours or 
longer into butter fat, and have also treated dry butter fat in an air 
bath at 96° for 15 hours, and in neither case did they observe a diminu- 
tion of the fat-soluble vitamine. They raise "a question as to the value 
of the untreated butter fat or the food intake of the animals used by" 
Drummond. In other experiments (1) butter heated to 120° without 
aeration was satisfactory, but when air was passed through during the 
heating, destruction of A seemed complete. Light, too, is apparently 
an important cause of destruction of A, maybe the most important 
cause (21). 

In plant tissue the vitamine seems to be very stable, either to heating 
or to drying (24) (14). 

Relation to Diet of Cow. The amount of the fat-soluble vitamine in 
milk or butter is closely dependent upon the diet of the cow, being 
richer in spring milk when the cows are put out to pasture, and poorer 
in winter milk when they are on dry feed (25). This fact and related 
ones in regard to the other \atamines may explain many of the apparent 
discrepancies in the results of different investigators. 

The fat-soluble vitamine therefore seems to be of even greater impor- 
tance in the diet of young and old than was formerly realized. It is 
more widely distributed than at first thought — many vegetables, notably 
those with yellow coloring matter, being very significant sources of it, as 
well as butter and some other fats. Its stability to heat is still somewhat 
uncertain, but exposure to light is possibly the most important factor 
in its destruction. 



1921] THE PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 103 

WATER-SOLUBLE B 

Methods of Study. For studying the water-soluble vitamine, obser- 
vations have been continued on the growth of rats and on the onset 
of polyneuritis in pigeons and chickens. While it is not definitely proved 
that these two methods deal with one and the same substance, the 
assumption that such is the case is usually made. During the past 
year, however, evidence has increased that two distinct substances may 
be involved, for a sample of unmilled rice heated to 120° for 6 hours had 
ceased to be satisfactory for preventing polyneuritis in pigeons but was 
still satisfactory as the only source of the water-soluble vitamine for 
growing rats (26). 

A new and most promising method of research was developed last 
year by Williams (27) in the laboratory of Physiological Chemistry of 
the University of Chicago. Yeast, he believes, unlike the higher plants, 
cannot grow without this vitamine. Therefore if drops of diflferent 
solutions, each containing a single yeast cell, are observed microscop- 
ically at interv^als of a few hours, the growth of the yeast and the 
number of cells into which it has multiplied will show, not only whether 
the solutions contain the vitamine, but the relative quantities present. 
This method is of course much simpler and quicker than the usual 
feeding experiment. 

The method since its introduction has been modified in various ways 
(28) (29), but also it has been seriously criticized, especially from McCol- 
lum's laboratory (30). Not only vitamine extracts but various pure 
chemicals such as glucose and amino acids stimulate yeast growth. 
The method, the investigators conclude, is therefore "complicated by 
so many disturbing factors as to make it of little if any value." Williams 
and the others who have worked with the method have not yet had 
opportunity to reply to this criticism. 

Occurrence. Water-soluble B occurs less in animal than in plant foods. 
Milk is by no means so rich in it as was formerly thought. Osborne and 
Mendel (31) found it necessary to give their rats at least 16 cc. per day 
for normal growth. They discuss but do not explain to their satis- 
faction the much-quoted results of Hopkins who secured remarkable 
growth on adding as little as 2 cc. of milk to a diet on which his rats 
were failing. They warn against a diet of white bread and only a little 
milk, or against feeding infants a top milk, water, sugar mixture. Pas- 
teurization does not lower the quantity of the water-soluble vitamine 



104 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

in milk (32), and condensed and evaporated milk also furnish a satis- 
factory source. The deficiency sometimes observed in slowly or highly 
heated milk is apparently due to the precipitation of part of the calcium, 
rather than the destruction of this \-itamine (33). Unlike the case with 
the two other xdtamines, the summer and winter differences in the diet 
of the cow are not of influence (32). 

Muscle tissue also is low in this vitamine, but various other animal 
tissues — heart, kidney, brain, and liver — are satisfactory sources of 
supply, a distribution similar to that of ^ (11) though somewhat wider. 

An especially satisfactory statement of the occurrence of this vita- 
mine in plants, as so far known, is given by Osborne and Mendel (34) 
in the Journal of Biological Chemistry for August, 1919. They list a 
wide variety of plant foods, including among others seeds of cereals 
and a number of legumes, spinach, cabbage, potatoes, and carrots; 
and they add to the list, from their own recent experiments, the usual 
edible portion of the onion, turnip, beet (leaves, stem, and root), and 
tomato. Potato peel is no better than potato. Immature alfalfa, clover, 
and timothy show decided advantages over the mature. This variation 
with age may apply to plant foods in general and may mean a real 
nutritive superiority for young vegetables. 

Fruits, too, are rich in B (35). Orange, lemon, and grape fruit juices 
as the sole source promote growth at about the same rate as an equal 
volume of milk, and dried orange juice is as satisfactory as fresh. The 
iimer peel of orange also contains it. Apples, pears, and bottled grape 
juice' are not so rich as the citrus fruits. Nuts have an abundant supply 
(36). A goodly number of our common vegetables and fruits have thus 
been tested for B and so far without exception everyone has been found 
to contain it — a much wider distribution than that of A . 

The part of the cereal that is rich in it is not the bran, as usually sup- 
posed, so much as the germ, which is often removed with the bran, 
e.g., in rice polishings. Commercial wheat bran contains more or less 
vitamine, according to the amount of the germ associated with it. Of 
one sample tested by Chick and Hume (37) five and a half times as much 
had to be used to cure polyneuritic pigeons as was necessary when 
the germ was used. Our commercial bran is especially thoroughly 
"skinned" when it comes from large well-equipped modem flour mills 
(38), and therefore is of little value to correct the deficiency of white flour 

• Welch's grape juice. 



1921] THE PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 105 

and bread. Even the yeast or the milk used in the white bread does 
not prevent polyneuritis in pigeons (39), though the yeast delays the 
period of its onset. On the other hand, bread made from real graham 
flour is adequate. Of course these facts have important bearing upon 
the kind of flour most desirable from the standpoint of national nutri- 
tion. Voegtlin and Myers in a later paper (40) say, "We believe that a 
product which does not contain any bran but does include the germ 
would not possess these objectionable features [of causing intestinal 
disturbances], would, at the same time be more nutritious, and would 
reduce greatly the possibility of vitamine deficiency in the modem 
mixed diet." 

Yeast (41) is distinctly the richest known source of the water-soluble 
vitamine, being four times as efficient as dried spinach which ranks 
next among a group studied quantitatively. Only half as rich as spinach 
are whole wheat, soy beans, dried eggs, milk solids. Cabbage, too, is 
not so satisfactory as spinach. Abderhalden (42) has succeeded in 
protecting pigeons, fed on polished rice, against polyneuritis by such 
minute daily amounts of yeast as 0.05-0.01 gram. 

Stability. Water-soluble B is probably not so stable toward heat 

as we formerly supposed. McCoUum's beans and peas (16), which, 

although heated for one and a quarter hours in an autoclave, stiU 

supplied all the B that the rat needed, were fed in large quantities, 

often as much as 25 per cent of the diet. When the food supplying B 

is fed in the smaUest amount which will produce growth at all (43), 

it is found that heating above 100° does cause deterioration, and that 

the heated food has to be supplied in larger quantities than the raw 

food. For example, while wheat germ (44) heated 2 hours at 100° 

loses little or none of its potency, heated 40 minutes at 113° it loses 

one-half, and heated 2 hours at 118°-124° it may lose up to nine-tenths. 

These temperatures, of course, point to the safety of the water-soluble 

vitamine in our ordinary cooking processes, but the danger of its partial 

or complete destruction in commercial canning or other high pressure 

cooking. Both Miller (45) and Whipple (46) found that in ordinary 

cooking of carrots, beans, and cabbage, there was no destruction of B 

(yeast method) nor in cooking carrots at 115° for 45 minutes. Heating 

navy beans at 120° for 30 minutes, however, decreased their vitamine 

40.6 per cent (Mifler) . A large part of the vitamine m ordinary cooking 

fwas found in the cooking water. 



106 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Tinned meat, Chick and Hume report, is devoid of this vitamine, 
a fact shown not only by their laboratory experiments, but by the 
repeated development of beri-beri in the British army in the Dardanelles 
and Mesopotamia where the diet for a time consisted only of white 
bread, tinned meat, and jam. The Indian soldier, on the other hand, 
remained immune from the beri-beri because his diet consisted chiefly 
of "atta," a coarsely ground wheat flour containing the germ and the 
aleurone layer of the grain, and also included 4 ounces daily of small 
lentils either whole or split (1). 

The stability of B toward alkali seems to be uncertain, though here, 
too, according to Chick and Hume, the difficulties may be due to feed- 
ing such large quantities that a destruction of half or even more during 
the alkali treatment would not have noticeable effect on the animals. 
Sullivan and Voegtlin (47) of the United States Public Health Service, 
who observed several years ago that chickens developed polyneuritis 
promptly on corn bread made with soda but not on com bread made 
with salt, now report polyneuritis in cats and dogs fed meat treated with 
sodium carbonate till distinctly alkaline and then heated at 120° for 
three hours; meat heated without the alkali was still a fairly satisfac- 
tory food. Rats, however, that were fed the alkali meat lived for at 
least 110 days — a fact quoted by Osborne and Wakeman (48) to show, 
with experiments of their own, that the vitamine is more resistant to 
alkali than generally supposed. Daniels and McClurg (49) feeding 
generous quantities of navy beans, soy beans, and cabbage, found the 
diets entirely satisfactory even when cooked for an hour and a half 
with 5 per cent sodium bicarbonate. McCollum and Simmonds (50) 
find the B in wheat germ destroyed by boiling with 0.28 per cent sodium 
hydroxide for an hour, but Osborne and Wakeman (48) find it undi- 
minished in yeast digested with tenth normal sodium hydroxide (slightly 
stronger than McCoUum's) for twenty-two and a half hours, and then 
heated for two hours. It may be that previous extraction with ether or 
other removal of the fat lessens the stability of B (26). 

W ater-soluhle B mid Appetite. Very strikingly, a relation seems to 
exist between the presence of the water-soluble vitamine in the diet and 
the amount of food eaten. Karr (51) (52), in Mendel's laboratory, gave 
dogs a liberal ration, satisfactory in every respect except its lack of B. 
He found that their food consumption, normally large the first day, 
gradually fell off, sometimes till they refused to eat at all. Then he 
added the vitamine, separate from the food so that it could not have 



1921] THE PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 107 

affected the palatability, and their food intake began to go up at once. 
The "appetite-provoking substance" was found in brewery yeast, 
baker's yeast, canned tomatoes, and milk. From 0.5-1.5 gm. brewery 
yeast daily were required to bring the appetite back to normal, about 
3 gm. baker's yeast, 50 cc. to 150 cc. milk, or 100 cc. to 200 cc. tomato. 

Certain animals which, unlike most, continued to eat their food for 
a longer time without the vitamine developed characteristic polyneuritic 
symptoms. 

Contrary to some of the conclusions with McCarrison's pigeons and 
monkeys discussed below, Karr's dogs showed no diminished coefficient 
of digestibility for the protein they did eat without the vitamine, nor 
any notable irregularity in the intermediary protein metabolism. As 
also with Lumiere's pigeons (53) the question seems to be purely one 
of appetite. It ''thus remains among the secrets which the physiology 
of nutrition has still to reveal." 

Some Results of Lack of B. What happens in the body as a result 
of lack of the water-soluble B in the diet? McCarrison (54), working 
in India-* has made striking advances in answering this question. He 
has observed changes during life and loss in weight of organs after death 
in a large group of pigeons made polyneuritic by a diet of polished rice 
and later a group fed polished rice, butter fat to supply A, and onions 
for C} There was little difference between the group undergoing B 
starvation and that with general vitamine starvation. The body 
temperature of the pigeons gradually fell from a normal average of 
107°F. to 98° or 99°F., showing a marked slowing up of metabolic 
processes. Digestive processes were greatly impaired; the starch was 
largely excreted unchanged. The different organs of the body lost 
weight strikingly (all except the adrenals which gained) ; th}Tnus most, 
then, in order, testicles, spleen, ovary, pancreas, heart, liver, kidneys, 
stomach, thyroid, brain. The testicles lost 93 per cent and the ovaries 
69 per cent of the original weight. "Perhaps one of the most remark- 
able results of a dietary deficient in so-called anti-neuritic \'itamine 
is the constant and very pronounced atrophy of the testicles in males 

* A fairly full abstract of the first of these papers is given in British Medical Journal 1, 
177, (Feb.), 1919, and a briefer reference to it by Le ^ler in Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc. 73, 
1381, (Xov. 1), 1919. 

* Observe apparent contradiction here with Osborne and Mendel's work with rats, prov- 
ing B in onions. McCarrison's pigeons became polyneuritic even more promptly in the 
butter-fat-onion group than on polished rice alone. 



108 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

and the similar but less pronounced atrophy of the ovary in females." 
Other investigators have noted similar results of vitamine starvation. 
Drummond found that when male rats after as short a time as 14 days 
on a diet adequate except for B were mated with females on an adequate 
diet no pregnancies resulted. 

Such degrees of atrophy in the human subject would result in sterility 
in males and in amenorrhoea and sterility in females. Human obser- 
vations are not lacking. McCarrison quotes Vedder as saying that 
beri-beri women cease to menstruate. "War amenorrhoea" (abnormal 
cessation of menstruation) is referred to in many recent German peri- 
odicals with alarm, attributing it in part at least to defective nutrition. 
In the Charite-Frauenklinik in Berlin it has been seven times more 
frequent than before the war.^ In Belgium, too, many cases have been 
observed (55). The experience of Benedict's young men is also strik- 
ing (56). Thfse difficulties may, of course, be due to general food lack 
rather than to the specific deficiency in B. 

Miscellaneous infections were very frequent among McCarrison's 
pigeons. The whole body was liable to be overcome by a rank growth 
of bacteria. There may be some similarity between this observation 
and the great increase in tuberculosis abroad during the war. 

McCarrison's more recent work has included experiments with mon- 
keys and with guinea pigs, as well as with many more pigeons, and with 
a variety of deficient diets. The results with the monkeys conform 
in a general way to those with the pigeons, except that the reproductive 
organs especially, and a few other parts, are less affected in the monkeys 
by lack of the antineuritic vitamine. He observes particularly the many 
changes in the gastro-intestinal tract of his monkeys. The mucous 
membrane became inflamed for its entire length, the muscular control 
was impaired so that the stomach was dilated and ballooning of areas 
of the small and large bowel took place, and the glands secreting the 
digestive juices were markedly affected. He also finds that a diet 
deficient in B but well balanced in its protein and carbohydrate con- 
stituents has a much less harmful effect than one containing low protein 
and excessive carbohydrate and fat. This may explain Karr's more 
satisfactory results with his dogs. 

McCarrison's statement of some of the ''chief clinical evidences of 
disease" observed in his monkeys on diets without the anti-neuritic 

^Brit. Med. Jour., Dec. 1, 1917, p. 734. 



1921] THE PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 109 

vitamine may well be partially quoted: progressive anemia, asthenia, 
loss of appetite, diarrhea, dysentery, headache, sub-normal temperature, 
enfeebled heart action. Nervous symptoms appeared later. "It is 
thought that the findings recorded in this paper may afford some expla- 
nation of the genesis of that great mass of ill-defined gastro-intestinal 
disorder and vague ill-health which forms so high a proportion of human 
ailments at the present day." 

Infant Nutrition and Water-soluble B. From the point of view of 
immediate application to human welfare in this country, possibly the 
most satisfying experiments with the water-soluble vitamine are those 
which show its very favorable influence on the growth of malnourished 
infants. Byfield and Daniels (57), in the Iowa Child Welfare Research 
Station, report their work with 7 such infants who were not growing on 
the usual satisfactory hospital dose of orange juice — 15 cc. daily. They 
increased the quantity to 45 cc. and all the babies began to gain. The 
gain ceased when only 15 cc. was given for about 10 days, and started 
up again when the larger quantity was restored. It was the anti- 
neuritic vitamine in the extra orange juice that was effective, not the 
antiscorbutic (see below), for some orange juice, shaken with kaolin 
which removes the antineuritic but not the antiscorbutic vitamine, and 
then filtered, did not cause the growth in the babies. Also in previous 
work the authors had obtained good growth in babies given wheat 
embryo extract. 

Eddy (58) also, somewhat earlier, in New York, has reported similar 
results on feeding extra water-soluble B, in part prepared from the navy 
bean. One of his infants gained 0.84 ounce per day for 32 days with 
the added vitamine, as compared with 0.47 ounce per day during the 
17 days preceding. There was already much more vitamine in the food 
than in the added extract. The author suggested that "this result may 
be due to the fact that the child could utilize the extracted vitamine 
when it could not utilize the vitamine in the diet." 

WATER-SOLUBLE C 

The third vitamine now recognized is the antiscorbutic. The earlier 
conclusion (59) that scurvy is not a deficiency disease, but is due to 
constipation, has been abandoned. Its adoption probably arose from 
having a non-controlled milk intake in the diet of the experimental 
animals and therefore a slight and variable amount of the vitamine. 



110 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Efect of Lack of C in the Diet. With this vitamine even more than 
with the others, human experience as well as laboratory experiments 
must be considered — both infantile scurvy and adult scurvy. Mild 
cases of the latter may merely manifest themselves in languor and depres- 
sion, and severe cases in looseness and final falling out of the teeth, 
soreness and hemorrhages of the gums, swelHng of the joints, great 
weakness, and finally death. Degenerative tooth changes are particu- 
larly characteristic of scur\y (60). They have been described at length 
in the guinea pig and are said to be identical in the human subject. 
Sometimes the guinea-pig conditions, when on a diet very low in green 
foods, closely simulate pyorrhea in human beings and at least the begin- 
ning of dental caries (61) (62). 

Methods of Study. The laboratory animal most used is the guinea 
pig, and to a lesser extent the monkey, for rats, while according to some 
investigators they thrive better with the antiscorbutic than without 
it (63), do not have scurvy. The usual experimental method, carefully 
worked out, is to note the smallest quantity of experimental food which 
will prevent the onset of scurvy in the guinea pig when added to a 
basal "scorbutic diet" such as oats, hay, and autoclaved milk. 

Among the chief workers on the antiscorbutic vitamine are Hess in 
New York, whose book, Scurvy Past and Present, forms a very valuable 
addition to the literature of scur\y in 1920 (64) ; Givens in New Haven 
and Rochester; and the group, largely women, at the Lister Institute 
of Preventive Medicine, London — Harriette Chick, E. Margaret Hume, 
and others. Chick and Dalyell spent 9 months in Vienna in 1919-20, 
observing and working among the many children ill with diseases result- 
ing from inadequate diet. A partial report of their experience was 
given in the Discussion on the Present Position of Vitamines in Clinical 
Medicine, at last summer's meeting of the British Medical Association 
(1). Earlier, the Lister Institute work was made the basis of the recom- 
mendations of the Food (War) Committee of the Royal Society on the 
prevention of scurvy in the army and navy (65) . Three editorials (66) 
in the Journal of the American Medical Association summarize much 
of their work as well as that of others. 

Vegetables and Fruit as Sources of C. "The vitamine is present in 
living vegetable and animal tissues, in largest amounts in fresh fruits 
and green vegetables, to a less extent in root vegetables and tubers. 
It is present in small amount in fresh meat and milk, and has not 
been detected in yeast, fats, cereals, pulses" (67). It is sensitive to 



1921] THE PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 111 

high temperature and may be destroyed "when the living tissue is 
disorganized." 

Orange juice has been generally recognized as one of the best antiscor- 
butics; grapes are only about one tenth as satisfactory. Orange peel 
extract is also of value. Lime juice is poor. The "lime juice" of the 
eighteenth and early nineteenth century which was responsible for the 
disappearance of scurvy from the British navy was really lemon juice 
from the Mediterranean countries. In 1875 certain vessels on polar 
exploration changed from the old "lime juice" to the true west Indian 
lime, and scurvy broke out again with great severity. The Lister 
Institute work has shown that fresh lemon juice has about four times 
the value of fresh lime juice as an antiscorbutic and that preserved 
lime juice is almost valueless. 

Of the vegetables (68), often more readily available than the fruit 
and cheaper, raw cabbage is even better than orange juice, and the 
raw juices of swede (a kind of turnip), beetroot, and carrots are of 
service, as is also raw or cooked rhubarb (69). Dalyell (1) shows charts 
with marked improvement in weight on giving a 6 months old, arti- 
ficially fed child, in Vienna, 10 grams raw turnip juice and 10 grams 
butter; and, in another case, on adding raw turnip juice and butter to 
the nursing mother's diet. Cooking (87), however, in most cases dimin- 
ishes or entirely destroys the efficiency of the vegetables except when 
they (carrots) are young (Hess). Cabbage (70) cooked for one hour 
at 60° or twenty minutes at 90° to 100° lost about 70 per cent of its 
antiscorbutic value, and for one hour at 90° more than 90 per cent. 
On repeating part of this work 2 years later (71) similar results were 
obtained with cabbage, and swede juice was found to be somewhat more 
stable. Long cooked or canned vegetables are thus of no value as anti- 
scorbutics, a fact borne out by human experience for many years. Canned 
tomatoes (87) are an exception, possibly because of their acid and original 
richness in the substance. They have been successfully used as a sub- 
stitute for the more expensive orange juice to prevent scur\y in infants 
receiving pasteurized milk. Hess (64) considers canned tomato the 
most serviceable antiscorbutic for artificially fed infants, regarding it 
as "a palatable solution of the 3 vitamines." He recommends feeding 
it at the rate of about 30 g. per day. 

Potatoes contain a fair amount of the vitamine if not cooked too 
long (72). For instance, guinea pigs on 10 grams raw potatoes or the 
same quantity cooked at 100° for 15 minutes were free from scur\-y, 



112 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

but on potatoes cooked for 1 hour they developed it. As the only- 
antiscorbutic for human beings the ration must be as much as fourteen 
ounces per man per day (65). In Glasgow (73), recently, a poor law 
hospital which had apparently been depending largely on potatoes and 
had been near the danger line with a normal of three cases of scurvy 
a year, developed fifty cases when the lack of potatoes in the fall and 
winter of 1916-17 caused the substitution of the potatoes by rice and 
bread. In this country, too, Hess (74) speaks of the development of 
scur\'y in numerous institutions in the spring of 1916 after an excep- 
tionally poor potato crop the previous year. In one there were more 
than twenty deaths, in another more than two hundred diagnosed cases 
and probably many latent cases which escaped observation. 

Drying, too, may lessen the value of an antiscorbutic food (75). 
Dried vegetables and herbs have been tried in cases of scurvy in the 
army and na\y with no help. Dried tomatoes, however, Givens (76) 
found, stiU retain a significant amount of the original high antiscorbutic 
potency. So do dried orange and lemon juice (77) (78). Commercial 
products are already being prepared from these fruits. Drying generally 
does least harm when done quickly at a low temperature (under dimin- 
ished pressure) and when the vegetables dried are young. Quick drying 
at a higher temperature, however, is much better than prolonged heating 
at a lower temperature. It may be, as suggested by Givens and McClug- 
gage (72), that enzyme action as well as heat is involved in the destruc- 
tion of the antiscorbutic, and this of course could take place at the 
maximum rate at 35-40° where some of the prolonged experimental 
drying has been carried on. Dried potatoes are more satisfactory as an 
antiscorbutic if they are baked before drying^ — a further indication for 
the enzyme idea. 

Dried beans, themselves valueless, develop their vitamine on sprout- 
ing (79). The Food (War) Committee of the Royal Society recom- 
mends (65) that when other antiscorbutics are not available the beans 
be sprouted and the sprouts used. Their therapeutic value was strik- 
ingly shown when King's College Hospital, London, with a number of 
mild cases of scurvy in soldiers from Serbia, divided its patients into 
two groups, treating thirty in one ward with 4 ounces of fresh lemon 
juice daily and twenty-seven in another with 4 ounces of dried haricot 
beans freshly germinated. Of the patients on the lemon juice 53.4 per 
cent were cured within four weeks and of those on the germinated beans 
70.4 per cent (80). 



1921] THE PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 113 

No more striking and terrible illustration of the lack of fresh vege- 
tables could be expected than the experience of the Indian troops in 
Mesopotamia during the war (1). The supplying of fresh vegetables 
and fruits seemed to be impossible during a long period. As a conse- 
quence, from July 1 to December 31, 1916, 11,000 cases of scurvy 
occurred. British troops did not have it because they had their fresh 
meat which the Indian troops would not eat, and because they had 
arrived in the country in good condition and the Indians often on the 
borderland of scurvy. The measures used to meet the outbreak con- 
stituted "a remarkable innovation in the hygiene of armies" (Hess 
(64), p. 19), for the British government sent over a body of 256 men as 
"Gardener's Corps" to plant gardens and supply seeds. 

Occurrence of C in Animal Foods. Milk (81) is only of moderate 
value as an antiscorbutic and even its moderate value varies considerably 
with the diet of the cow (82, 83, 84). Twenty cc. of "summer" milk 
when the cow is in pasture, may be better than 60 cc. "winter" milk 
with the cow on dry fodder. In general milk loses most of the value 
as an antiscorbutic when pasteurized or boiled {^S), though not when 
quickly "scalded." Numerous observations have been made of infantile 
scurvy developing from use of pasteurized milk and its check by the 
addition of orange juice. Commercial condensed milk (86) is valueless 
and so, too, is dried milk unless the drying is done very quickly, e.g., 
for a few seconds at 116° (87). Properly prepared dried milk may actu- 
ally cure infantile scurvy (Hess (64), p. 46). In this connection should 
be mentioned a very valuable summary — Morse's "A Resume of the 
Literature of Infantile Scurvy- during the Past Two Years," in t}iQ Boston 
Medical and Surgical Journal (88). An editorial in the Journal of 
the American Medical Association (89) cites numerous recent distressing 
cases of infantile scurvy abroad; for instance, in Prague in 1917-18 
when the much desired "raw" milk was often of doubtful "rawness," 
oranges had disappeared from the markets since early in the war, and 
other fruits and even most green vegetables were difficult to obtain 
and usually very expensive. 

Fresh meat has so little antiscorbutic value that the Royal Society 
(65) states that as much as two to four pounds daily are necessary- if it 
is to be used as the chief preventive agent, and tinned meat is completely 
valueless. Dutcher, Pierson, and Blester (90) find practically none even 
in raw beef. Their laboratory experiments do not confirm Stefansson's 
remarkable report (91) of his polar experiences. His habit, and that 



114 THE JOURNAL OF HoaiE ECONOMICS [March 

of his party in the north, was to live almost wholly on seal meat and 
bear meat, using not only the muscle tissue, but liver and various other 
organs. Often they consumed raw frozen liver. They had no cases of 
scurvy on this diet. However, three men, who were separated at times 
from the main party and depended largely on some cached foods which 
they had found — flour, salt pork, butter, honey, sugar, pilot bread, pre- 
served fruit, pemmican, meat extract, dried fruit, rice, beans, and peas — 
developed serious scurvy. They were promptly cured when fed meat, 
largely raw. 

It is rather surprising that rats' livers contain the antiscorbutic 
vitamine, even when their diet is free from it (92). Apparently the 
rats, unlike most animals investigated, can synthesize the vitamine 
themselves and must use it in their own metabolism. Their powers of 
S3nithesis must have furnished the only source of supply to the Arctic 
explorer Smith who attributed his freedom from scurvy to eating the 
ship's rats which were of necessity on a diet very low in C. 

One more human scurvy experience (93) illustrates a nmnber of the 
points so far stated. A number of camps of the South African Native 
Labour Corps were established in France during the war. The rations 
consisted of 1 pound frozen or preserved meat, 8 ounces fresh vegetables, 
and definite quantities of mealy meal (com) or rice, bread, coffee, sugar, 
salt, margarine, and tobacco. In country depots where they could 
pick extra fruit (apples) no scurvy occurred, but in a camp when this 
was impossible 40 per cent of the natives at one time showed symptoms 
of scurvy. The half pound of fresh vegetables probably allowed no 
margin for the reduction of the antiscorbutic, and yet aU foods had been 
cooked for at least three hours. The chief part of the cure was to give 
lemon juice, increase the supply of vegetables, and limit their cooking to 
forty-five minutes. In a camp where the scurvy was most severe and 
lasted longest it was discovered that the instruction to shorten the 
cooking period had been disobeyed. The condition was soon improved 
when the cooking was reduced to forty minutes. 

CONCLUSION 

In conclusion, it is plain that remarkable as are the advances in the 
subject, we still have far to go for anything approaching complete 
knowledge. We need more quantitative information as to the distribu- 
tion of the vitamines in foods and their resistance to all sorts of manip- 



1921] THE PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 115 

ulations — cooking, storing, aging. We lack knowledge of the quantities 
advisable for human beings of different ages. Finally, and most funda- 
mentally, we yet await the isolation of the substances themselves in 
purity and the establishment of their chemical composition. 

It is very difficult to say what is the importance to the average indi- 
vidual of giving thought to these three vitamines in choosing the diet. 
Most of us probably use milk or leaf vegetables (McCollum's "protect- 
ive foods") to get an adequate supply of A, enough vegetables of all 
kinds and whole cereals to get B, and enough uncooked or little cooked 
foods for C. But the occasional moderately well-to-do individual with 
dietary idiosyncracies, many persons on very limited incomes, and 
many in institutions must be close to the danger line. Probably C 
with its marked unstability to heating or drying is the most often low 
in quantity, and A with its limited distribution second. It is more than 
probable, too, that all sorts of common languors and inefficiencies and 
susceptibilities to many miscellaneous infections are connected with 
shortage in vitamines. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Hopkins, F. G., Chick, H., Dal yell, E. J., et al.: Discussion on the present position 

of vitamines in clinical medicine. Bril. Med. Jour., 1920, ii, 147. 

2. Drummond, J. C. : Researches on the fat-soluble accessory substance. II. Observation 

on its role in nutrition and influence on fat metabolism. Biochem. Jour., 13, 95, 
1919. 

3. Hopkins, F. G., and Chick, H.: Lancet, 2, 28, 1919. 

4. McCoLLUM, E. v., SiMMONDS, N., AND PARSONS, H. T.: The etiology of rickets. Proc. 

Soc. Biol. Chem., Jour. Biol. Chem., 41, xxxi, (Mar.), 1920. 

5. Mellanby, E.: Discussion on the importance of accessory food factors (vitamines) in 

the feeding of infants. Proc. Royal Soc. Med., 13, Sec. for the Study of Disease 
in Children, 57, (May), 1920. 

6. Hess, A. F., and Unger, L. J.: The clinical rdle of the fat-soluble vitamine: its relation 

to rickets. Jour. Am. Med. Assoc, 74, 217, Jan. 24, 1920. 

7. Hess, A. F., and Unger, L. J.: Prophylactic therapy for rickets in a negro community. 

Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 69, 1583, 1917. 

8. Steenbock, H., Boutwell, P. W., and Kent, H. E.: Fat-soluble vitamine. I. Jour. 

Biol. Chem., 35, 517, 1918. 

9. Drummond, J. C: Researches on the fat-soluble accessory substance. I. Observations 

upon its nature and properties. Biochem. Jour., 13, 81, 1919. 

10. Halliburton, W. D., and Drummond, J. C: The nutritive value of margarines and 

butter substitutes with reference to their content of fat-soluble accessory growth 
substance. Jour. Physid., 51, 235, 1917. 

11. Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: Nutritive factors in animal tissues. II. Jour. 

Biol. Chem., 34, 17, 1918. 

12. Daniels, A. L., and Loughlin, R.: The fat-soluble growth promoting substance in 

lard and cotton seed oil. Jour. Biol. Chem., 42, 359, Quly), 1920. 



116 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

13. Drummond, J. C, AND Coward, K. H.: Researches on the fat-soluble accessory sub- 

stance. V. The nutritive value of animal and vegetable oils and fats consid- 
ered in relation to their color. Biochem. Jour., 14, 668, 1920. 

14. Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: Nutritive factors in plant tissues. IV. Fat- 

soluble vitamine. Jour. Biol. Chem., 41, 549, (Apr.), 1920. 

15. Steenbock, H., and Boutwell, P. W.: Fat-soluble vitamine. III. The comparative 

nutritive value of white and yellow maizes. Jour. Biol. Chem., 41, 81, (Jan.), 1920. 

16. Denton, il. C, and Kohman, E.: Feeding experiments mth raw and boiled carrots. 

Jour. Biol. Chem., 36, 249, 1918. 

17. McCoLLxm, E. V., Seumonds, N., and Parsons, H. T.: The dietary properties of the 

pea. Jour. Biol. Chem., 37, 287, 1919. 

18. Sugiura, K., and Benedict, S. R.: The nutritive value of the banana. Jour. Biol. 

Chem., 36, 171, 1918. 

19. Steenbock, H.: White corn vs. yellow corn and a probable relation between the fat- 

soluble vitamine and yellow plant pigments. Science, 50, 352, 1919. 

20. Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: The occurrence of water-soluble vitamine in some 

common fruits. Jour. Biol. Chem., 42, 465, (July), 1920. 

21. Steenbock, H., and Boutwell, P. W.: Fat-soluble vitamine. VI. The extractability 

of the fat-soluble vitamine from carrots, alfalfa, and yellow corn by fat solvents. 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 42, 131, (May), 1920. 

22. Rosenheim, O., an*d DRUiDiOND, J. C. : The relation of lipochrome pigments to the 

fat-soluble accessory food factor. Laticet, 1920, i, 862. 

23. Osbornt:, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: Growth on diets poor in true fats. Jour. Biol. 

Chem., 45, 145, (Dec), 1920. 

24. Steenbock, H., and Gross, E. G.: Fat-soluble vitamine. IV. The fat-soluble vita- 

mine content of green plant tissue together with some observations on their 
water-soluble vitamine content. Jour. Biol. Chem., 41, 163, (Feb.), 1920. 

25. DuTCHER, R. A., Kennedy, C., and Eckles, C. H.: The influence of the diet of the 

cow upon the fat-soluble and water-soluble v-itamine of cow's milk. Science, 
52, 588, (Dec. 17), 1920. 

26. Emmett, a. D., and Euros, G. 0.: Water-soluble vitamines. I. Are the antineuritic 

and water-soluble B vitamines the same? Jour. Biol. Chem., 43, 265, (Aug.), 
1920. 

27. WrLLiAMS, R. J. : The vitamine requirement of yeast. Jour. Biol. Chem., 38, 465, 1919. 

28. Williams, R. J.: A quantitative method for determination of vitamine. Jour. Biol. 

Chem., 42, 259, (June), 1920. 

29. Funk, C., and Dubin, H. E.: A test for antiberi-beri vitamine and its practical appli- 

cation. Jour. Biol. Chem., 44, 487, (Nov.), 1920. 

30. SouzA, G. DE p., AND McCoLLUM, E. V.: A study of the factors which interfere with 

the use of yeast as a test organism for the antineuritic substance. Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 44, 113, (Oct.), 1920. 

31. Osbornt;, T. B., ]\Iendel, L. B., Ferry, E. L., and Wakeman, A. L.: Milk as a source 

of water-soluble vitamine. Jour. Biol. Chem., 34, 537, 1918. 

32. Osborxe, T. B., and ^Mendel, L. B.: ]\Iilk as a source of water-soluble vitamine. II. 

Jour. Biol. Chem., 41, 515, (Apr.), 1920. 

33. Daniels, A. L., and Loughlin, R.: A deficiency in heat-treated milks. Jour. Biol. 

Chem., 44, 381, (Nov.), 1920. 

34. Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: Nutritive factors in plant tissue. Jour. Biol. 

Chem., 39, 29, 1919. 



1921] THE PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 117 

35. Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: The occurrence of water-soluble vitamine in some 

common fruits. Jour. Biol. Chem., 42, 465, (July), 1920. 

36. Cajori, F. a., Some nutritive properties of nuts: their proteins and content of water- 

soluble vitamine. Jour. Biol. Chem., 43, 583, (Sept.), 1920. 

37. Chick, H., and Hume, E. M.: The distribution in wheat, rice and maize grains of the 

substance, the deficiency of which in a diet causes polyneuritis in birds and 
beri-beri in man. Proc. Roy. Soc. 90B, 44, 1917. 

38. Briggs, C. H.: The digestibility of the branny coats of wheat. Science, 50, 427, 1919. 

39. VoEGTLiN, C, Lake, G. C, and Myers, C. N.: The dietary deficiency of cereal foods 

with reference to their content in "antineuritic vitamine." U. S. Pub. Health 
Repts., iZ, 647, 1918. 

40. VoEOTLiN, C, AND Myers, C. N.: Distribution of the antineuritic vitamine in wheat 

and corn kernel. Amer. Jour. Physiol., 48, 504, 1919. 

41. Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: The vitamines in green foods. Jour. Biol. Chem., 

37, 187, 1919. 

42. Abderhalden, E.: Weitere Beitrage zur Kenntnis von organischen Nahrungsstoffen mit 

spezifischen Wirkung. II. Pfluger's Arch., 182, 133, 1920. 

43. Chick, H., and Hume, E. M.: Note on the importance of accurate and quantitative 

measurements in experimental work on nutrition and accessory food factors. 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 39, 203, 1919. 

44. Chick, H., and Hume, E. M.: Effect of exposure of temperature at or above 100°C. 

upon the substance (vitamine) whose deficiency in a diet causes poylneuritis in 
birds and beri-beri in man. Proc. Roy. Soc, 90B, 60, 1917. 

45. Miller, E. W. : The effect of cooking on the water-soluble vitamine in carrots and navy 

beans. Jour. Biol. Chem., 44, 159, (Oct.), 1920. 

46. Whipple, B. K.: Water-soluble B in cabbage and onion. Jour. Biol. Chem., 44, 175, 

(Oct.), 1920. 

47. Sullivan, M. X., Voegtlin, C: The distribution in foods of the so-called vitamines 

and their isolation. Proc. Soc. Biol. Chem., Jour. Biol. Chem., 24, xvi, 1916. 

48. Osborne, T. B., Wakeman, A. J., and Ferry, E. L.: Preparation of protein free from 

water-soluble vitamine. Jour. Biol. Chem., 39, 35, 1919. 

49. Daniels, A. L., and McClurg, N. L: Influence of high temperatures and dilute alka- 

lies on the antineuritic properties of foods. Jour. Biol. Chem., 37, 201, 1919. 

50. McCollum, E. v., and Simmonds, N.: A study of the dietary essential, water-soluble B, 

in relation to its solubility towards reagents. Jour. Biol. Chem., 33, 55, 1918. 

51. Karr, W. G.: Some effects of water-soluble vitamine upon nutrition. Jour. Biol. Chem., 

44, 255, (Nov.), 1920. 

52. Karr, W. G.: Metabolism studies with diets deficient in water-soluble (B) vitamine. 

Jour. Biol. Chem., 44, 277, (Nov.), 1920. 

53. LuMiERE, A.: Starvation of pigeons fed with hulled rice. Bull. Acad. Med., Paris, 83, 

310, 1920. 

54. McCarrison, R. : The pathogenesis of deficiency disease. Ifidian Jour. Med. Research, 

6, 275, 1919: ibid., 6, 550, 1919; ibid., 7, 167, 1919; ibid., 7, 188, 1919; ibid., 7, 
269, 1919; ibid., 7, 279, 1919; ibid., 7, 308, 1919; ibid., 7, 342, 1919; ibid., 7, 633, 
(Jan.), 1920. 

55. Belgian Letter: Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 73, 1228, 1919. 

56. Miles, W. R.: The sex expression of men living on a lowered nutritional level. Jour. 

Nervous and Mental Diseases, 49, 208, 1919. 

57. Byeeeld, a. H., and Daniels, A. L.: The antineuritic and growth stimulating proper- 

ties of orange juice. Amer. Jour. Dis. Child., 19, 349, (May), 1920. 



118 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

58. Eddy, W. H.: Further studies on the use of water-soluble B in the treatment of infant 

malnutrition. Proc. Soc. Biol. Chem., Jour. Biol. Chem., 41, xxxiv, (j\Iar.), 1920. 

59. McCoLLUM, E. v., AND PiTZ, W.: The "vitamine" hypothesis and deficiency diseases. 

Jour. Biol. Chem., 31, 229, 1917. 

60. ZiLVA, S. S., AND Wells, F. M.: Changes in the teeth of the guinea-pig on a scorbutic 

diet. Proc. Roy. Soc, 90B, 505, 1919. 

61. Ho%VE, P. R., Effect of scorbutic diets upon the teeth. Dental Cosmos, 62, 586, 1920. 

62. Howe, P. R.: Food accessory factors in relation to the teeth. Jour. Home Econ., 12, 

482, (Nov.), 1920. 

63. Harden, A., and Zllva, S. S. : Accessory factors in nutrition of the rat. Biochem. Jour., 

12, 408, 1918. 

64. Hess, A. F.: Scurvy past and present (book), pages vii -|- 279, J. B. Lippincott Co. 

1920 

65. J^Iemorandum on food and scurvy by the food (war) committee of the Royal Society, 

Lancet, London, 756, 1919. 

66. Editorial, Antiscorbutics. I. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 73, 271, 1919; Antiscorbutics. 

II. Ibid., 73, 338, 1919; Scurvy in animals. Ibid., 73, 1288, 1919. 

67. Chick, H., Hume, E. V., Skelton, R. F., and Smith, A.: The relative content of anti- 

scorbutic principle in limes and lemons. Lancet, London, 735, 1918. 

68. Chick, H., and Rhodes, M. : An investigation of the antiscorbutic value of the raw juices 

of root vegetables. Lancet, London, 774, 1918. 

69. Plerson, E. M., and Butcher, R. A.: Rhubarb as an antiscorbutic. Science, 51, 70, 

1920. 

70. Belt, E. M.: The antiscorbutic value of cabbage. I. Biochem. Jour., 12, 416, 1918. 

71. Belf, E. M.: The effect of heat on the antiscorbutic accessory factor of vegetables and 

fruit juices. Biochem. Jour., 14, 21, (Apr.), 1920. 

72. GiVENS, M. H., AND McCluggage, H. B.: Antiscorbutic property of vegetables. II. 

An experimental study of raw and dried potatoes. Jour. Biol. Chem., 42, 491, 
(July), 1920. 

73. Editorial, Recent cases of scurvy in Glasgow. Brit. Med. Jour., 2, 28, 1917. 

74. Hess, A. F.: R61e of antiscorbutics in our dietary. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 71, 941, 

1918. 

75. Belt, E.M., AND Skelton, R. F.: Antiscorbutic value of cabbage. II. Biochem. Jour., 

12, 448, 1918. 

76. GiVENS, M. H., AND McCluggage, H. B.: Influence of temperature on the antiscorbutic 

vitamine in tomatoes. Proc. Soc. Biol. Chem., Jour. Biol. Chem., 41, xxiv, (Mar.), 
1920. 

77. Harden, A., and Robison, R.: Antiscorbutic properties of concentrated fruit juice. 

III. Biochem. Jour., 14, 171, (Apr.), 1920. 

78. Bassett-Smith, P. W.: Preservation of lemon juice. Lancet, 1920, 2, 997. 

79. Chick, H., and Belf, E. M.: The antiscorbutic value of dry and germinated seeds. 

Biochem. Jour., 13, 199, 1919. 

80. Wiltshire, H. W.: Value of germinated beans in the treatment of scurvy. Lancet, 

London, 2, 811, 1918. 

81. Chick, H., Hume, E. jM., and Skelton, R. F.: An estimate of the antiscorbutic value 

of milk in infant feeding. Lancet, London, 1, 1918. 

82. Butcher, R. A., Eckels, C. H., Bahle, C. B., Mead, S. W., ant) Schaefer, O. G. 

Vitamine studies. VI. The influence of diet of the cow upon the nutrition and 
antiscorbutic properties of cow's milk. Jour. Biol. Chem., 45, 119 (Bee), 1920. 

83. Hart, E. B., Steenbock, H., and Ellis, N. R.: Influence of diet on the antiscorbutic 

potency of milk. Jour. Biol. Chem., 42, 383 (July), 1920. 



1921] CONFERENCE OF CLOTHING SPECIALISTS 119 

84. Hess, A. F., Unger, L. J., and Supplee, G. C: Relation of fodder to the antiscorbutic 

potency and salt content of milk. Jour. Biol. Chem., 45, 229, (Dec), 1920. 

85. Barnes, R. E., and Hume, E. M. : Relative antiscorbutic value of fresh, dried, and heated 

cow's milk. Biochem. Jour., 13, 306, 1919. 

86. Hart, E. B., Steenbock, H., ant) Smith, D. W.: Studies of experimental scurvy. Jour. 

Biol. Chem., 38, 305, 1919. 

87. Hess, A. F., and Unger, L. J.: The scurvy of guinea pigs. HI. The effect of age, heat 

and reaction on antiscorbutic foods. Jour. Biol. Chem., 38, 293, 1919. 

88. Morse, J. L.: A resum6 of the literature of infantile scurvy during the past 2 years. 

Boston Med. Surg. Jour., 182, 428, 1920. 

89. Editorial, Child welfare and disease under war-time food conditions in Central Europe. 

Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 72, 939, 1919. 

90. DuTCHER, R. A., Pierson, E. ]M., and Biester, A.: Vitamine studies. V. The anti- 

scorbutic properties of raw beef. Jour. Biol. Chem., 42, 301, Qune), 1920. 

91. Stefansson, v.: Observations on three cases of scurvy. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 71, 

1715, 1918. 

92. Parsons, H. T.: The antiscorbutic content of certain body tissues of the rat. Jour. 

Biol. Chem., 44, 587, (Nov.), 1920. 

93. Dyke, H. W.: Outbreak of scurvy in the South African Native Labour Corps. Lancet, 

London, 2, 513, 1918. 



I 



CONFERENCE OF CLOTHING SPECIALISTS 

Significant in the development of extension work in the northern and 
western states was the meeting of clothing specialists and state leaders 
from twenty-six states held at Ames, Iowa, November 8 to 14. Florence 
E. Ward, in charge of extension work in the North and West, presided. 

Clothing work as a phase of home economics extension teaching has 
come so rapidly into prominence within the last two or three years that 
at present the service claims twenty-three specialists in the northern 
and western states. While the standards and ultimate aims of clothing 
instruction may be the same in extension teaching as in resident teaching 
at state colleges, the methods and immediate aims in dealing with 
homemakers offer many new problems that call for study and analysis. 

Among the high lights in the discussions were the following subjects: 
the value of surveys in making programs, the extent to which local leaders 
can effectively carry on the work, the part that records play in a clothing 
project, possibilities of promoting health through clothing work, the 
need of drill in efficient methods in garment construction, the relative 
importance of hat making in a clothing program, effective illustrative 



120 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

material, county and state fairs as a means of promoting the work, the 
relationship of speciahsts to state and federal work, and the possibility 
of simplifying and strengthening monthly and annual reports. 

A demonstration of a so-called style show in the form of a play was 
given by Ames students under the direction of the extension instructor 
in design to point out the possibilities of this sort of appeal for suit- 
ability and beauty in the high school girl's dress. 

Of equal interest with the discussions of technical subject matter was 
the ghmpse of the sociological value of the work revealed through the 
stories from far corners of the country. Adaptability to conditions is 
one of the prime requisites of a successful extension teacher; in fact, it 
would seem that there is small opportunity for her to get into the pro- 
verbial rut. As compensation for the many quick shifts in plan that 
must be made and the difficulties of itinerant work, there is the variety 
of scene, situation, people, and problems which always refreshes one's 
interest and gives color to the day's acti\'ity. The pri\ilege of knowing 
many kinds of people and homes is offered liberally to extension workers. 

As the discussion of local leaders progressed, it became apparent that 
the group was considering, not only a means of extending information 
on clothing, but also the development of leadership that would be a 
permanent asset to the community and to the indi\'idual. 

High standards for extension work in clothing seem to be jealously 
guarded and, when pressure of work or a necessary decision in favor of 
a more important matter has caused relaxation in standards of teaching 
as has necessarily been the case sometimes in the pioneer stage of develop- 
ment, it seems always to have been with regret and with the happy 
conviction that the work is now reaching such a stage of development 
that attention can be given to perfecting methods. 

The machiner}^ offered by the farm or home bureau organization for 
canydng on this form of teaching is a boon to the extension instructor. 
Its many advantages are fuUy appreciated by the workers who were in 
the field before the development of this organization and who then 
realized the difficulties of following up any work that might have been 
begun through a talk or demonstration. 

The challenge of this new field of service is winning many a strong 
worker. 



1921] AMENDMENT TO VOCATIONAL EDUCATION ACT 121 

THE HEARING ON THE HOME ECONOMICS AMENDMENT 
TO THE VOCATIONAL EDUCATION ACT 

Report of the Legislative Committee of the American Home 
Economics Association 

On the evening of February 4, 1921, a hearing was held before the 
Committee on Education of the House of Representatives on the Home 
Economics Amendment to the Vocational Education Act. This bill is 
the first to be introduced into Congress, with reference only to home 
economics. It provides an opportunity for the development of a plan 
for homemaking education adequate to the needs of the women in every 
locality throughout the country, and authorizes an appropriation for 
vocational home economics equal to that amount appropriated for agri- 
culture and trade and industrial education. 

The caucus room of the House Office Building, where the hearing was 
held, was well filled with representatives of organizations whose inter- 
ests are closely allied with home economics, and with individuals 
interested in the prospect of better training for girls and women in 
homemaking. 

The American Home Economics Association has sponsored the bill 
from the beginning. With the aid of other women's organizations, the 
Association succeeded in having this amendment presented to Congress, 
and it is therefore with a feeling of pardonable pride that we report the 
congressional hearing on the bill. 

Representative Fess, chairman of the Committee on Education, pre- 
sided. Louise Stanley, chairman of the Legislative Committee of the 
American Home Economics Association, in behalf of the Association 
urgently recommended the passage of the bill, outlining the need for 
home economics education, giving the present provisions for Federal 
aid, and pointing out the advantages to be derived from the adoption 
of this amendment. 

Miss Stanley's remarks may be summarized as follows: 

The new bill provides an appropriation of a half milhon dollars for 
the first year, to be used for homemaking education, with an increase 
of $250,000 each year for the next 10 years, after which three million 
dollars will be available annually for this purpose. This money is not 
to be apportioned to the states in the same manner in which funds are 
now available for home economics education under the Vocational 
Education Act. The funds are to be allotted upon the basis of total 



122 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

population, rather than upon the basis of urban population as is now 
the case. The money is to be expended for the salaries of teachers, 
supervisors, and directors of home economics; one-third of the money 
given for teachers' salaries must be used in part-time or evening classes 
for workers over 14 years of age who have entered upon employment. 

In the Vocational Education Act, no definite appropriation is made 
for home economics; the act permits the expenditure of not more than 
20 per cent of the fund appropriated for the salaries of teachers of 
trade, home economics, and industrial subjects, for the salaries of home 
economics teachers. The amount available for the salaries of teachers 
of home economics is allotted to the states in the proportion that their 
total urban population bears to the total urban population of the 
United States. Homemaking is a business of the rural districts as well 
as of the urban centers; and the 1920 census reports 32 states with a 
larger rural than urban population; the inference may easily be seen. 
There is no appropriation for the salaries of supervisors, except as super- 
vision may be included in the plans for teacher training. 

A great handicap to the program of homemaking training is found in 
the inclusion of home economics in that portion of the law which sets 
up standards for trade and industrial education. Preparation for home- 
making cannot be interpreted in terms of unit trade training. Home- 
making is a complex job. The efficient homemaker must be skillful in 
a number of simple occupations. She must understand the selection 
and preparation of food; she must know how to buy and repair clothing; 
she must be able to rear and care for children. The family expendi- 
tures, the health of her family, the standard of living in the home, and 
the training of the children are among her responsibilities. She is the 
educational manager, the health and welfare manager, and the social 
manager of the family group. Difficulties have therefore been encoun- 
tered in the interpretation of the present law. 

The need for home economics may be seen in the small percentage 
of the women managing the twenty million homes in the United States 
who have had training for homemaking. More than half of the fifty 
million girls and women reported by the census of 1920 are over twenty 
years of age; 80 per cent of these are married, and it is safe to assume 
that as large a proportion will marry. The chief occupation of these 
girls will be homemaking, and it is wise to teach the fundamentals of 
homemaking to all, since there are few women, whether in business or 
at home, who do not have some share in home duties. 



1921] AMENDMENT TO VOCATIONAL EDUCATION ACT 123 

The product of the home is the child. As there is no other productive 
enterprise that yields so valuable a product, it is important that ade- 
quate training be given those responsible for the bearing and rearing 
of children. 

Home training is no longer a sufficient education for homemaking. 
In many homes there is a lack of interest or time on the part of mother 
or daughter, and the changing conditions of homes do not offer the old- 
time standards and opportunities for homemaking; these things, together 
with the fact that a large number of girls are employed and have no home 
advantages, emphasize the need for home economics courses in the 
schools. 

Steady progress has been made in vocational training in home econom- 
ics under the Vocational Education Act. In 1917, when this act was 
passed, only three states had laws specifically providing for vocational 
training in home economics. In 1919-1920, forty-four states had used 
funds available for the salaries of home economics teachers; two states 
had no available funds for home economics because the salaries of trade 
and industrial teachers had absorbed the entire amount. One of the 
largest factors in this progress of vocational training in homemaking 
has been the super\dsor. In 1917 there were only four state super- 
visors; there are now forty-one full-time and twenty part-time super- 
visors. Every state has now some plan for supervision. 

No provision is made in this amendment for teacher training; none is 
necessary, because the original bill provides for home economics to 
share in the teacher-training fund to the same extent as agriculture and 
trade industry. Pro\'iding the funds for the training of teachers but 
failing to make definite appropriation for the salaries of these teachers 
has created a rather anomalous situation which is not conducive to the 
development of vocational schools in the states, as vocational teachers 
are being trained who cannot be used by the states through lack of funds. 

Miss Stanley made a strong plea for the adoption of this amendment 
on the grounds of the numbers to be benefited and the importance of 
the work. The American Home Economics Association, speaking for 
the large army of homemakers and for the potential homemakers who 
deserve this training for a vocation fundamental to the weKare of our 
national life, sees in the passage of this bill an occasion to recognize their 
demands and, in a measure, to equalize opportunities for the training 
of men and women. The fact that every organization in the country 



124 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

devoted to women's interests has a home economics and a child welfare 
committee is sufficient proof that the women of America believe in 
training in homemaking. The schools have registered their approval 
by accepting it as part of the curriculum, and the economic world is turn- 
ing to it as an effective means of eliminating waste. The National 
Government has recognized the vocation of homemaking as deserving 
of training, but has in the Vocational Education Act limited this train- 
ing by an inadequate appropriation. It now remains to provide the 
means by which this training can be given in the states. 

Mrs. Maud Wood Park, chairman of the National League of Women 
Voters, based her argument upon the desire of the league for equaliza- 
tion of opportunities for girls and boys, which would result, in this 
instance, from the equal appropriation provided in this bill. The devel- 
opment of an effective educational system was one of the chief interests 
of women in desiring the vote. Appropriations for all educational pur- 
poses have been insufficient. Charts prepared by the United States 
Bureau of Standards giving the distribution of government appropria- 
tions for the year ending June 20, 1920, were used to illustrate the meager 
appropriation for educational purposes. Of the five and a half billion 
dollars appropriated, research, education, and development received only 
one per cent. Of this one per cent only 13.5 per cent is given for educa- 
tion. Vocational education received approximately 40 per cent of the 
amount available for education, and home economics education received 
tV of the amount provided for vocational education, or txtVo of the total 
appropriation for all educational purposes. Mrs. Wood referred to 
the fact that women voters are expecting the fulfillment of campaign 
promises in regard to the advancement of vocational training for women, 
since both Republicans and Democrats incorporated definite statements 
as to such pro\dsions in their party platforms. 

The need for systematic home economics education in rural districts 
is keenly felt by all interested in agricultural development. Mrs. Nellie 
E. Blakeman, speaking for the National Grange, urged this bill as one 
remedy for the limited opportunities now existing in rural districts for 
training girls. Six miUion boys and girls are now taught in one-room 
schoolhouses. The need for better homes exists as the need for better 
schools, and training for homemaking as provided in this biU was ear- 
nestly recommended. 

Dean A. R. Mann of the College of Agriculture at Cornell University, 
who represented the Land Grant College Association, said that the Ian- 



1921] AMENDMENT TO VOCATIONAL EDUCATION ACT 125 

guage of the present vocational education act is permissive in dealing 
with home economics training while it is specific towards agricultural 
and trade and industrial education. He said that Land Grant College 
extension workers believe that there is a definite need for this training 
in home economics, the opportunities of which will be equalized in rural 
and urban communities under this amendment. To be placed by the 
present law' under the same conditions of development as trade and 
industrial training is a distinct drawback to home economics educa- 
tion, as it is clearly seen that its technique needs an independent 
administration. 

Definite needs told by those in contact with the work itself, often 
speak louder than any other arguments. Edna Wliite, speaking for 
the Ohio State Board for Vocational Education, said that, while her state 
has received the fourth largest allotment of Federal funds for home 
economics, the lack of money has limited the development of this work, 
and a large number of applications are on file awaiting this additional 
appropriation. This appeal from schools and communities feeling the 
need for home economics education for their girls and women indicates 
the necessity for an increase in amounts available for this work. 

The million and a half women organized in women's clubs in every 
state and territory of the United States, and in many cities and commu- 
nities of every state, sent their endorsement of this bill. Lillian William- 
son, representing the General Federation of Women's Clubs, stated 
that the question had been studied in the different clubs and the Feder- 
ation had agreed to recommend the passage of the home economics bill 
because they "honestly considered it worth while." The right kind of 
food and the proper care of children are only two of the needs demand- 
ing better home training for women and girls. Changing conditions in 
li\dng have done away with the passing down from mother to daugh- 
ter many of the household traditions, and this instruction must be sup- 
plied in the school. Home economics training educates homemakers 
along broad lines of citizenship. 

Mrs. Arthur G. Watkins presented the endorsement of the National 
Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teachers' Association, Mrs. Ellis A. 
Yost that of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union, and Mrs. Rob- 
ert Wiles spoke for the Daughters of the American Revolution. In the 
name of the Association of Collegiate Alumnae, Mrs. Raymond B. Mor- 
gan urged the passage of the bill for the reason that homemaking edu- 
cation should be available for every girl. Matilda J. JMcKeown of the 



126 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Maich 

Home Economics Association of Greater New York told of the need in 
her state for such opportunities as would be provided through this 
amendment. Agnes Ellen Harris and Helen Atwater, both of the States 
Relations Service of the Department of Agriculture, in reply to requests 
for their opinions from the congressional committee, strongly recom- 
mended the bill. 

The hearing on this bill constitutes a significant occasion, not only 
because it was without precedent that a committee of the nation's law- 
makers should give their undivided attention to the subject of training 
homemakers, but also for the reason that this homemaking training was 
recognized as touching so many interests organized primarily for work 
outside the hom.e. Expression from committee members as to a favor- 
able report of the bill was unanimous. We feel greatly encouraged 
by the progress made yet much remains to be done. Women interested 
in the advancement of home economics education must continue to 
work if they wish Congress to act upon the bill early in the next session. 
That all women really want the opportunities provided in this amend- 
ment to be available for girls and women, and that the sum asked is a 
legitimate amount to carry on the work adequately, are the two facts 
now to be impressed. Let all home economics workers and all others 
interested be "up and doing" that the day may not be far distant when 
homemaking training will take the place it deserves in vocational 
education. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

TEA! 

SUSANNAH USHER 

Our housekeepers are not usually discriminating buyers of tea. 
This is due partly to the fact that when people become accustomed to 
the flavor of one kind of tea, they will not accept any other, even one of 
a superior quality, and partly to the fact that the oriental origin of tea 
throws a veil of mystery over it. As we begin to study the subject this 
veil of mystery serves to pique our curiosity. 

We must not expect to become tea experts overnight, because that is 
a profession by itself; but we can learn to brew tea properly, and be 
better judges of kinds and qualities. 

It has been estimated that there are some three thousand tea brands, 
blends, and trade names, which seems bewildering until we know that 
these may be classified under three heads: 

1. Unoxidized or unfermented, as green tea. 

2. Partially oxidized or fermented, as oolong tea. 

3. Oxidized or fermented, as black tea. 

To make this classification more real let Japan pan-fired represent the 
green tea; Formosa oolong, the oolong; and English breakfast (China 
congou), the black. 

Notice the characteristic color and cure of leaf. The pan-fired Japan 
has a medium-sized leaf, greenish in color and well twisted. The For- 
mosa oolong has an evenly curled leaf with a somewhat crapy texture 
and a brownish color, with some leaves showing olive tinge. The 
English breakfast leaf is gra>dsh-black to black, and well tvvdsted. 

Make a cup of each, using a teaspoonful of tea and freshly boiling 
water. Get the bouquet by taking some of the tea leaves on a spoon 
and smelling of them. Brew 3 to 5 minutes, then strain, and examine 
the leaves, noting the velvety green leaves of the green tea, the green 
leaves with coppery edges of the oolong tea, and the brownish black or 
reddish black leaves of the English breakfast tea. Taste the liquor 
when cool, as in that way one gets delicate differences in flavor. 

^ Copyright, 1921, by the American Home Economics Association, 

127 



128 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

The Japan tea will have a light color, and delicate flavor; the oolong 
a darker color and a very characteristic aromatic flavor; the EngHsh 
breakfast tea is darkest of the three, and if of good quaHty has a fine 
fruity flavor and rich deep color. The differences one notes are largely 
the result of difTerences in manufacture, but soil, cHmate, altitude, and 
kind of leaf have an influence. 

The different stages in the manufacture are: picking, withering, 
roUing, oxidizing or fermenting, and firing or drying. 

Picking. In the spring the evergreen tea bush begins to send forth 
its new leaves. This new growth is known as a flush. When the leaves 
are large enough the bud or folded leaf and several leaves are picked. 
Later the buds at the axils of the leaves begin to grow and form a second 
flush. Not all the leaves of a flush are ready to pick at the same time, 
so there are more pickings than there are flushes. 

The quality of the manufactured tea varies according to the season of 
picking and the number of leaves picked. The young growing leaf 
contains the most soluble matter and the old leaf the most cellulose, so 
the older, coarser leaves make inferior tea. 

Withering. If black tea is to be made the green leaf is brought in 
and allowed to wither naturally by being spread on open floors or racks, 
or, artificially, by the circulation of heated air. The withering makes 
the leaves soft and in condition for the next process of rolHng, and 
begins chemical changes that go on in the later processes. 

Rolling. The leaves made flaccid by withering are now rolled by 
hand or by machinery, and the leaf acquires its characteristic twist. 
Some of the juice is expressed and later dries on the leaf. This makes 
the juice more readily soluble when the tea is brewed, and the twist in 
the leaf helps keep the flavor of the tea. 

Oxidation or Fermentation. The leaves are spread thinly on floors or 
racks in a cool, dark room and the air necessary for oxidation is admitted 
by tossing and turning the leaf by hand or by fans run by machinery. 
The oxidizing enzyme of the leaf acts readily because the leaf has been 
bruised and some of the sap expressed by previous rolling. Chemical 
changes take place during oxidation which improve the flavor and 
aroma of tea and reduce its astringence. The change to a darker color 
which begins during withering is especially noticeable during oxidation. 

Firing or Drying. This is carried on in pans over a fire, or by circu- 
lating dry air in machines made for the purpose. The heat is high 
enough to check oxidation and drive off the moisture which assures the 



1921] TEA 129 

keeping qualities of the tea. At this stage the final characteristic 
flavor and aroma of the tea are developed. 

If green tea is to be manufactured the withering is omitted, as this 
darkens the leaf, and instead the leaf is steamed or otherwise heated to 
a temperature that will kill the oxidizing ferment, but not the ferments 
that are needed to develop flavor. The same leaf may be manufac- 
tured into green or black, but some leaf is better for one and some for 
the other. After steaming, the leaf is in condition to roll, which, as in 
the case with black tea, increases the solubility. 

The leaf is then fired. By the omission of withering and oxidation 
the leaf retains its green color, but it has a larger percentage of tannin 
than black tea made of similar leaf because oxidases have not had an 
opportunity to act on it. This accounts for the greater astringency of 
green tea. The oolong tea stands between the green and the black in 
its characteristics because, during its manufacture, it is underoxidized. 

Further research may enable the producer to so control the processes 
of growth and manufacture as to get more uniform results. 

BREWING TEA 

Okakura-Kakuzo^ says of our afternoon tea, "Strangely enough 
humanity has so far met in the tea cup. It is the only Asiatic cere- 
monial which commands universal esteem. The white man has scoffed 
at our rehgion and our morals, but has accepted the brown beverage 
without hesitation. The afternoon tea is now an important function 
in Western society. In the delicate clatter of trays and saucers, in the 
soft rustle of feminine hospitality, in the common catechism about 
cream and sugar, we know that the Worship of Tea is established beyond 
question. The philosophic resignation of the guest to the fate awaiting 
him in the dubious decoction proclaims that in this single instance the 
Oriental spirit reigns supreme." 

If more attention was paid to the quality of the tea and the manner 
of brewing, a "dubious decoction" would not be so often our fate. 

Tea experts insist that there is just one method of brewing tea, which 
is as follows: Put the required amount of tea in a hot pot, earthenware 
preferred, pour on freshly boiling water, steep 3 to 5 minutes, and strain 
into another hot pot. Three minutes will usually allow most of the 
aroma and taste to be developed without an excess of tannin, which 

* The Book of Tea. Okakura-Kakuzo. Duffield and Co. 



130 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

makes the tea too astringent; in other words, in a 3-minute brewing one 
gets the desirable qualities with a minimum of the undesirable qualities. 
A 5-minute brewing gives more body. 

Water freshly boiling has a life and sparkle which it loses on standing 
or long boiling. Water that has been boiling for some time is distinctly 
flat and insipid. Since the amount of tea used depends on one's taste, 
also on the kind and quality of the tea, no hard and fast rules can be 
given, but the following suggestions may be useful. 

China congou (English breakfast) tea will stand one even teaspoon 
of tea to the half pint cup of water and a 5-minute brewing, but a 
3-minute brewing will probably make a more delicate cup of tea. 
For weak tea one-half a teaspoon of tea is sufficient, and for strong tea 
the teaspoon may be rounded. China congou has less tannin than 
the green teas and less than the India and Ceylon black teas. This is 
why more tea can be used to the cup and a longer brewing is possible 
without undue astringency. In fact some steeping is necessary to open 
its tightly rolled leaves and bring out the strength. 

Measuring in a teaspoon is a rough means of measuring but it is the 
one used in the household. 

Since China green tea contains more tannin than the China black 
tea, more care must be exercised in the brewing. A smaller amount 
of tea may be used with a 3-minute brewing, although tea drinkers 
often want the "body" which a 5-minute brewing gives. Even an 
infusion of green tea is Hght in color when it is strong, thus deceiving 
one who is used to black tea. 

If one likes a minimum astringency with a delicious aroma and piquant 
flavor, a 3-minute brewing of Formosa oolong is sufficient. From ^ to 
1 teaspoonful may be used according to taste. 

As India and Ceylon teas contain more tannin than China teas, ^ 
teaspoon and no more than a 3-minute brewing should be used unless a 
strong tea is desired. This is especially true of the heavy bodied teas, 
such as Darjeeling and Assam. It is important to strain the liquor 
from the leaves as soon as the 3 or 5 minutes is ended. 

The heavy bodied teas are especially good with cream. If served for 
afternoon tea with lemon they should be made weaker than when served 
with cream at meals. Japan greens may be given a 3- to 5-minute 
steeping and ^ to 1 teaspoon of tea to the cup. 

Tea may be made with water below the boiling point. This is the 
practice in some oriental countries. This makes a delicately flavored 



I 



1921] TEA 131 

tea. Boil the water, take from the fire and allow to cool slightly, then 
pour on the tea, let stand 3 to 5 minutes, and strain. 

Strainers and Tea Balls. When guests are arriving intermittently it is 
convenient to make tea in a strainer placed over a cup. But aside from 
its convenience, this method has little to recommend it. For, when tea 
does not have time to steep and is used for several cups, the color is all 
that is left to remind one of tea. If the strainer is used the tea should 
be often renewed, and a kind should be used that parts quickly with its 
goodness. Ceylon or oolong is better suited for this purpose than 
English breakfast tea which needs steeping to bring out its flavor. 

A tea ball should be used with caution. Never fill it so fuU of tea 
that the water cannot penetrate. For the best results, fill the ball 
about half full of dry tea, as the tea wiU swell when the water is added. 
If the ball is to be dangled in a succession of cups of hot water, it should 
be emptied and refilled before the flavor and aroma are dissipated. 

Various other methods are used by which the leaves may be removed 
from the Hquor when the tea is sufficiently steeped. Muslin bags may 
be made which will hold the required amount of tea. These should be 
scalded and dried thoroughly, filled with tea, and put in a tight recep- 
tacle. As the bags have strings attached to them, they may be removed 
from the pot at the proper time. This method is used in some hotels 
and tea rooms, — but it apparently does not suit everyone, for a man 
served in this fashion was heard to remark, "I have found cloves, lemon, 
or rose leaves in my tea, but never before have I found a rag." 

In tea room work, teapots with strainers may be used. After the 
first cup is poured, the water is reduced so that the leaves are no longer 
covered. If some such device is not used the second cup of tea is too 
bitter. When the pot of tea is made fresh for each person, the customer 
does not seem to realize that he must let the tea steep before pouring or 
the tea will be too weak; or he may let it stand too long and the tea 
will be too strong. 

Points to be remembered in brewing tea: Measure carefully. Have 
the water freshly boiling. Have two hot earthen pots. Steep three 
minutes. Never boil tea. Strain leaves from liquor. Keep hot in 
tea cosey or where tea will not boil. Tea served with cream should be 
stronger than tea served with lemon. 

{To he continued.) 



132 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

THE EIGHT-HOUR DAY IN OPERATION 

GEORGIE BOYNTON CHILD 

This article is part of a series of "studies" on the employment of non-resi- 
dent workers in private homes. The first of these articles "The Six Hour 
Day for Housekeepers" appeared in The Delineator, July, 1919; a second, 
"Planning the Eight Hour Day" was published in the November issue of The 
Delineator the same year. Other studies were to have followed but the topics 
were changed at the request of the editor. The studies are based on careful 
records of the duties performed by various resident and non-resident employ- 
ees in my home during the past sixteen years. During half the time I employed 
help according to the conventional plan. For the last half I experimented with 
different plans, employing non-resident workers chiefly. The first study 
shows how well, under certain conditions, a combination of resident and non- 
resident help will work out. In homes where there are very young chil- 
dren, or invalids, or old people, it is very desirable to have one resident worker 
of responsibihty and refinement. Such a person can carry light duties but is 
not usually physically able to put in long hours or to do the energetic kind of 
work required of the general houseworker. A happy home means much to 
such women. If housekeepers would realize this and be willing to organize 
their housekeeping so that such workers could command a certain amount of 
freedom, and not lose caste by undertaking the work, there would be found 
many to fill the positions of resident caretakers at nominal pay. Strong, 
capable women, who can do a good day's work command high wages. 

I have not found the supply of employees fail me even during war-times, 
although changed conditions have made it advisable to adjust hours and 
increase the pay. During the years covered by those studies I have always 
been able to command at least three hours of uninterrupted time in the morn- 
ings for study, writing, or professional consultation, and to devote an unusual 
amount of time to the supervision and interests of my four children, the 
youngest of whom is now five. The wages paid for the service have varied 
between $7 a week and $13, the latter amount covering two part-time work- 
ers, one of whom was paid $9 per week of six days and the latter $4 for extra 
work required. There have been no extra "incidental expenses" to figure in, 
as is the case with resident workers where room-rent, light, heat, three meals 
a day, and waste in preparing meals must be added to the $50 or $70 a month 
now paid for average service. I have included dinner each day, so the cost of 
materials must be added to the wage, but this did not figure more than $1.50 
a week extra and added a great deal to the contentment of the worker. By 
the non-resident plan the housekeeper has to keep a close hand on supplies, 
so there is no opportunity for careless or negligent management on the part 
of either mistress or maid. 



1921] THE EIGHT-HOUR DAY IN OPERATION 133 

Yes, the eight-hour day for houseworkers is really a success. House- 
keepers who have tried it like it because it brings to the home a superior 
class of workers — women of all-round ability who are willing to put in 
their time at any household task. The workers like it because they 
have a short day of concentrated but varied work. They are independ- 
ent and free to make their own plans during the hours they are off duty. 
Best of all they can keep up their own homes or live in boarding houses 
with their friends. 

This new basis does away with the idea that one is hired to do cook- 
ing but not wait on table, or to make beds but not to iron. The worker 
lays aside the demands of specialized labor and agrees to be of service 
eight hours a day at any task, whether it be cleaning, cooking, serving 
meals, ironing, sewing, or the care of the children. Gardening and 
light washing are often included in the tasks that may be assigned. 

The worker benefits by the variety of work as much as does the house- 
keeper. Varied work is not so monotonous and wearing as repeating 
over and over the same kind of tasks. Under this new arrangement 
the worker obtains one free day a week and all her holidays. Best of 
all, she is no longer regarded as a servant but is called by her surname 
and title, just as she would be if she were working in a shop or ofifice. 

No Shortage of Household Workers in War-time. A friend of mine 
became interested in this new basis of employing domestic help, when 
war work was making its most tempting and attractive oft'ers. She 
put an advertisement in the city paper which read as follows: — "Wanted, 
a woman to assist with housework five hours a day, six days a week, at 
twenty-five cents an hour." She did not expect many applicants. 
The intelligence offices had all assured her that there was no household 
help to be had. That was what determined her to strike out in this 
new direction. Much to her surprise, she was flooded with applicants. 
Over a hundred women applied, and one man. 

After a personal interview with the most promising applicants, my 
friend made her selection. The plan was working very successfully 
when she was called away from home by the illness of a sister and had 
to give up housekeeping temporarily. On her return she decided to 
adopt the same general arrangement again, increasing the time to eight 
hours a day. She secured the second assistant from the Kst of names 
filed in answer to her first advertisement. The new incumbent had been 
a practical nurse. She agreed to come eight hours a day, six days a 
week, and three hours on Sunday. 



134 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

The hours were divided into two shifts, from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 
from 4.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. The arrangement included two meals 
daily for the worker, which is not the usual practice vrhen help is engaged 
on this basis. The woman agreed to work for $8.00 a week, including 
three hours on Sunday. This price is equivalent in value, to a worker 
without a home, to $14.00 a week when no meals are included, but in 
cases where workers Hve at home without pa\Tng board it would not be 
of this comparative value. The woman was not especially trained for 
her work, and was not expected to take charge of the cooking. It did 
not take long, however, to give her the necessary training, and the 
arrangement proved very satisfactory on both sides. 

Conditions To Be Met. This friend is a doctor's wife, H\ing in a big 
house in a Connecticut city. She is a wom^an who has kept up with all 
the modern ideas about housekeeping and is herself a capable house- 
keeper and manager. The family consisted of four members — the 
doctor, his wife, his son, and a young girl who was spending the winter 
with them. The doctor had his office in the house, which added con- 
siderably to the housekeeping problems. The house is large, of an old- 
fashioned t}-pe, with very high walls, and full length windows, requiring 
an immense amount of work to keep it clean. It used to have a big, 
rambling, impossible kitchen with pantries adjoining. 

Before emplopng non-resident help, all the working conditions were 
made as perfect as possible. The hea\'y labor was reduced to a mini- 
mum by covering the floors of the big kitchen and pantries with lino- 
leum. The most important operations of the kitchen were concentrated 
in one corner, so there was no loss of steps between the sink, the stove, 
and the mixing center; the refrigerator was brought into the kitchen 
from a distant pantry. In its new location it was conveniently placed 
with relation to both the dining room and the mixing center. A large 
coal range which had always been run very wastefully by the help, was 
replaced by a gas range. A tireless cooker was installed. 

A wheeled tray reduced the labor of the long journeys back and forth 
between the dining room and the kitchen. Labor-saxdng equipment for 
every kitchen task was purchased to lighten the work and save all 
possible time. This extended beyond the kitchen to laundry apparatus 
and a vacuum cleaner. In this way all the necessary work was reduced 
at least one half. 

My friend likes cooking and it seemed important to keep the work 
under her direct control and super\-ision, because the arrangement was 



1921] THE EIGHT-HOUR DAY IN OPERATION 135 

economical and because her husband had to have his food very carefully 
prepared. It was possible to secure a laundress who came in two days 
a week for the washing and ironing and one day for extra cleaning. 
The doctor employed an office girl who took charge of the door and 
telephone during office hours, as well as the daily cleaning of the office 
suite. Her hours were from 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and again from 1.30 
to 5 p.m. She was on duty also two evenings a week. The services 
yet remaining could be performed by one competent woman. A large 
part of this worker's time was devoted to the daily care and cleaning of 
the kitchen suite and the upstairs rooms. She also attended to setting 
the table and the routine part of the cooking, as well as serving luncheon 
and dinner. 

How the Work Was Planned. The assistant came on duty at 9 o'clock. 
Breakfast was prepared by my friend, the mistress, assisted by the 
young girl. The dishes were scraped and stacked on the wheeled tray, 
ready to be washed. The assistant washed the dishes, tidied up the 
kitchen, washed out the kitchen towels, and gave the dining room a 
thorough daily cleaning. By 10 o'clock she began the upstairs work, 
making beds in four rooms, taking care of bath rooms and halls and 
performing all the little tasks included in the upstairs routine of an 
orderly household. 

This work was always completed in an hour, and often in less time. 
The balance of the time not required for the preparation of lunch was 
spent in the weekly cleaning of some special room. The rest of the 
weekly cleaning was done by the laundress on the regular cleaning day. 
The lunch was then prepared and served, the dishes washed and every- 
thing put in careful order before 2 o'clock, when the assistant went off 
duty. 

At 4.30 p.m. the assistant returned to prepare and serve the dinner. 
This proved to be a convenient time for my friend to do the baking, 
dessert making, and all extra cooking, as she could then be helped by the 
assistant. Three hours a day were found to be ample to allow for pre- 
paring and serving dinner and for the extra cooking. The assistant 
cleared up afterward and was through for the evening by 7:30. 

It will be noticed that the division of hours between 9 a.m. and 7.30 
p.m. was so arranged that either the assistant or the office girl was on 
duty to answer the door and telephone, a point quite necessary in a 
doctor's family. 



136 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Eight-Hour Plan a Success. My friend tells me that they have never 
liked any arrangement so well as the present plan. The house has 
never been so well kept up. All the little things that are often over- 
looked by resident helpers are now thoroughly done. The worker is 
genuinely an assistant. The mistress is free to call upon her for help in 
any task, at any time, as she was not when she kept two maids and 
followed the conventional division of housework. There is much more 
freedom in planning the work now that she does not have to consider 
whether it "comes within the bond" to do this or that task. The key- 
note of the plan is cooperation and the spirit of service. 

This experiment is of interest and value to all housekeepers because 
it illustrates the progressive, unconventional way of solving one's house- 
keeping problem. The business arrangem.ent between the housekeeper 
and the worker meets the needs of both parties. It includes the essen- 
tial points in the employment of both resident and non-resident help. 

The rate of pay per week is based on definite hours of service. Every- 
thing has been done to make the conditions of work easy and pleasant. 
It is a decided advantage to the worker, in this instance, to have two 
meals a day at her employer's home. It would be very difficult for her 
to have such wholesome, appetizing meals as she gets here without 
paying a very high price for them. Home-cooked food cannot be esti- 
mated at restaurant prices. If the conditions on either side were dif- 
ferent, however, it might be better not to have meals included in the 
arrangement, but to pay a higher price in cash. In the same way it 
might be fairer to the worker not to expect her to do any work on 
Sunday. 

These are matters that ought to be adjusted to individual needs. 
The important point to consider in this relation, as in all business mat- 
ters, is to have the working agreement fully understood on both sides 
and based on the best interest of both employer and employee. 



EDITORIAL 

The International Federation of Home Economics Instruction 
and the Third International Congress of Home Economics In- 
struction. The American Home Economics Association last June voted 
$25.00 to be paid to the International Federation of Home Eco- 
nomics Instruction, and thereby became a member of the federation. 
Definite information regarding the organization of this, the only inter- 
national organization dealing primarily with home economics subjects, 
will therefore be of interest to members of our Association. 

According to the constitution, the aim of the federation is to encourage 
the development of home economics instruction in all countries by means 
of cooperation with pubHc agencies, scientific and professional organi- 
zations, and individuals. Its membership includes official represen- 
tatives of governments granting an annual subsidy, as well as individuals, 
institutions, and associations interested in home economics instruction. 

The governing bodies of the federation are the Plenary Assembly, 
the Permanent International Committee, the Executive Committee, 
and the International Office of Home Economics Instruction. 

The Plenary Assembly of members is held every four years, at the 
time of the international congress. 

The Permanent International Committee acts for the assembly 
between such meetings. It consists of a delegate from each government 
and association contributing to the federation and of one representative 
for every 50 members in each country, such representatives nominated 
from among the individual members and elected by the Plenary Assembly. 
In order to maintain active connection with the federation a correspond- 
ing member and an alternate are appointed by the delegation from each 
country. The Permanent International Committee meets regularly 
before the opening of the congress and on special call by the president 
or at the request of three countries. It nominates the executive com- 
mittee and draws up the rules governing the congresses. 

The Executive Committee consists of from 5 to 9 members and has 
the general direction of the work and expenditures of the federation, 
including the International Office of Home Economics Instruction. 

137 



138 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

This ofi&ce, established in 1908, has its seat at Fribourg, Switzerland. 
It is under a director, M. Leon Genoud, who is also secretary of the 
federation and is appointed by the executive committee. He and his 
staff carry out the decisions of the executive committee, collect and 
distribute information, maintain a library and bibliography of home 
economics pubHcations from all countries, and encourage the study of 
questions to be placed on the programs of future international congresses. 

The federation is supported by subsidies from governments and 
associations, by the dues of individual members, and by gifts. Each 
government granting an annual subsidy and each association paying 
100 francs per year is entitled to at least one representative on the 
international committee. Annual dues of individual members are 5 
francs. Life membership is secured by the payment of 100 francs, 
and associations or individuals making a gift of 1000 francs are to be 
listed as founders. Application for membership should be sent to the 
OflSce International de I'Enseignement Menager, Fribourg, Switzerland. 

Although the United States Government, unlike most European 
governments, does not grant subsidies to such international organi- 
zations, but leaves their support to private initiative. Dr. C. F. Lang- 
worthy of the Department of Agriculture has been a member of the 
Permanent International Committee since the federation was organized. 

The Third International Congress of Home Economics Instruction has 
been called at Strasbourg, Alsace, for July 28 to 31, 1921. 

The organization and procedure of the congress are somewhat different 
from those usual in professional gatherings in this country, as appears 
from the rules recently drawn up for the government of the congress. 

The Permanent International Committee, having chosen the plan 
of the congress, appoints a National Committee on Organization 
composed of persons from that country and of the secretary of the 
federation and entrusts to this committee the task of arranging for 
and financing the congress. It is aided, in details of arrangement, by 
a local committee in the city where the congress is held. 

Membership in the congress consists of the delegates of those govern- 
ments, municipalities, institutions, or corporations, paying a fee to be 
fixed by the committee on organization, and of individuals registered 
with the local committee who shall have paid a fee similarly fixed. Thus 
membership in the federation does not, in and of itself, entitle to member- 
ship in the congress, nor is membership in the congress limited to mem- 
bers of the federation. Each delegate and individual member whose fee 



1921] EDITORIAL 139 

to the congress has been duly paid, receives a membership card which 
entitles him to take part in the deliberations of the congress. Visitors 
cards will also be issued to non-members at a price fixed by the 
committee. 

The working sessions of the congress include general and sectional 
meetings. They are under the direction of the Board of Officers (Bureau) 
elected at the opening session. This board determines the final form of 
the resolutions and conclusions adopted by the sections and presents 
them at the closing session of the general assembly as the conclusions 
of the work of the congress, to be later published by the international 
federation. 

The way in which the program of the sessions is drawn up and carried 
out is perhaps the part of the proceeding least like our own. On the 
basis of suggestions presented by the Director of the International Office, 
the Permanent International Committee adopts a program of topics 
for discussion by the congress. Individual contributions to these 
discussions are presented in advance to the National Committee 
on Organization, and this committee appoints competent editors or 
reporters (rapporteurs) to condense these into general reports on the 
various topics. These general reports, printed in the original language 
and accompanied by resumes in the other languages admitted by the 
congress, are sent out four weeks before the date of the congress, to all 
who have paid the membership fee of the congress. At the sessions of 
the congress, each reporter opens the discussion of the question assigned 
to him, after which other members may join in. Discussion is confined 
to the topics specified on the program and is limited to thirty minutes 
for the reporter and ten minutes for other speakers, and no person may 
speak more than twice on the same subject without the consent of the 
ofiacers of the section. Speeches are as far as practicable translated into 
the admitted languages, and it is requested that a written resume of 
each be handed at once to the secretary. 

The national committee arranges for the publication of the report of 
the congress and copies are sold on subscription. This report contains 
the proceedings of the congress and the resolutions adopted. 

Topics Proposed for Consideration at Strasbourg 

I. Home Economics Instruction in Different Countries Since the Congress at Ghent (1914) 
Situation before the war 
Situation during the war 
Increased participation of women in national life by replacing mobilized men; 
established facts 



140 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

How have the home economics schools survived and how did they function 

during the war? 
Were they subsidized bj'^ national or local governments? 

How were they adapted to special circumstances and what state and local serv- 
ices did they render? 
Did government authorities appreciate such services and how was such appreci- 
ation shown? — Results (greater participation of women in political, eco- 
nomic, and social life) 
Present situation 
General reconstruction; r61e of women and home economics instruction (simplifi- 
cation of household labor) 
n. Home Economics Instruction in Primary Schools 

How and when should home economics instruction be given to girls in the primary 

schools? 
Is specially installed equipment necessary for this instruction? 
What should this equipment be in city schools? in the country? 

III. Home Economics Instruction as a Part of the General Education of All Girls 

Should home economics instruction be required in secondary schools for girls? 
How and when should home economics instruction be given in secondary schools for 

girls? 
Is special equipment needed for each school giving such instruction? 
What specially installed equipment would be needed in city schools? in the country? 
Home economics instruction for boys 

IV. Home Economics Science in the Universities 

Introduction of subjects bearing on the science of home economics into university 
research laboratories 
V. Relation of Home Economics Instruction to Education in the Home 

How may parents be shown the value of home economics instruction? 
VI. Relation of Home Economics Instruction to Professional Education 
Vn. Agricultural Schools of Home Economics 

Means and methods of making home economics instruction efficacious in rural 
districts 
VTII. Post-scholastic Instruction in Home Economics 

Special instruction for girls; travelling schools; courses in child care and training 
IX. Normal Instruction in Home Economics 

How may courses be organized for the rational preparation of a teaching force in 

home economics science? 
The importance of the formation of such a teaching force 
Home economics pedagogy 

Should home economics instruction be by the individual, group, or mutual [groups 
of pupils taught by pupil-teachers under supervision of the instructor] method? 
What special equipment should be provided for such instruction in normal schools 
of home economics? 
X. Inspection of Home Economics Instruction 

Duties of inspectors 
XI. To What Extent Can Home Economics Schools Aid in the Improvement of Social 
Conditions from the Point of View of Housing, Food, Child Hygiene, Cooperative 
Organizations of Consumers, High Prices, Food Adulteration? 
XII. Professional Training of Servants in the Family (Required Examination) 
Professional orientation 
General management: Organization, science, and simplification of domestic labor 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Text Book of Chemistry for Nurses and Stu- 
dents of Home Economics. By Annie 
Louise Macleod, Associate Professor of 
Chemistry, Vassar College. New York: 
McGraw Hill Book Co., Inc., 1920, pp. 
192. $2.25. 

The purpose of this book is "to present 
in one volume those general principles of 
chemistry, inorganic, organic, and physio- 
logical, which give the necessary foundation 
for practical courses such as nutrition, die- 
tetics, and cookery, materia medica and bac- 
teriology, which are more or less distinctly 
dependent on a basis of chemical theory." 

Inorganic chemistry is treated in the first 
71 pages comprising ten chapters. The next 
34 pages, divided into eight chapters, are 
devoted to organic chemistry, followed by 
34 pages of physiological chemistry under 
the chapter headings, Digestion, Assimila- 
tion, Energy of the Body, The Blood, Excre- 
tions of the Body. The last part of the 
book is devoted to a practical manual includ- 
ing 22 exercises intended to give the begin- 
ning student some skill in manipulation, and 
a first hand acquaintance with some of the 
principal substances studied. 

It is very evident that, in a book of this 
size, covering such a wide field, only the 
most essential substances and principles of 
chemistry can be taken up. 

The author has carried out well her object 
of eliminating "much that would be included 
in the conventional chemistry course in order 
to avoid confusing the student who has only 
a limited amount of time to spend on this 
subject." Indeed it seems that some mate- 
rial has been eliminated which can hardly be 
excluded, even from a book of this scope. 
Dismissing such important elements as 
phosphorus, sulfur, calcium, potassium, and 
sodium with only incidental mention in other 
chapters seems hardly excusable, and cal- 
cium and phosphorus at least should have 



been included in the list of most important 
elements. The chapter on the metals is dis- 
appointing, being chiefly a recitation of the 
physical properties of the metals in common 
use. No mention is made of the chemical 
behavior of the typical metals of the alka- 
lies and alkaline earths. In the chapter on 
the paraflans some mention might well have 
been made of crude petroleum and its dis- 
tillation products and of the important sub- 
stances paraffin and vaseline. 

There are some misprints and a number 
of inaccurate and misleading statements. 
We ieam on page 62 that the boiling point 
of water is 180°F. and on page 145 that 
"blood heat is about 27°C." The first 
equation on page 92 is not balanced. Hydro- 
gen is no longer taken as the basis of our 
atomic weight as the reader is led to believe 
on page 6. It is hardly correct to say that 
the "kindling point" of small pieces of 
kindling is lower than that of larger sticks 
of wood as is stated on page 14. The state- 
ment on page 62 in regard to the decompo- 
sition of ammonium salts leads the reader to 
expect ammonium chloride to give a strong 
odor of ammonia. The definition of a cal- 
orie on page 128 seems hardly satisfactory. 
It is to be hoped that these and other inac- 
curacies may be corrected by the author, as 
they detract from the value of the book 
which is entertainingly and on the whole 
clearly written, containing information indis- 
pensable to the well trained nurse. 

It is doubtful if the treatment of the sub- 
ject is extensive enough for the book to find 
a place in the average university or college 
course in home economics. An extensive 
index and a list of the supplies necessary for 
carrying out the laboratory experiments are 
desirable features. 

Louis Agassiz Test, 
Purdue University. 
141 



142 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Current Periodical Literature 
compiled by margaret norton 

Food 

Digestibility of Some Hydrogenated Oils. A. D. Holmes and H. J. Deuel, Amer. Jour. 
Physiol, Jan. 1921. 

Experimental Studies in Diabetes, Series II. The Internal Pancreatic Function in Rela- 
tion to Body Mass and Metabolism; 7. Influence of Cold, F. M. Allen; 8. Influence of Ex- 
tremes of Age Upon the Production of Diabetes, F. M. Allen; 9. Influence of Pregnancy 
Upon Experimental Diabetes, F. M. Allen. Amer. Jour. Physiol., Jan. 1921. 

Bracken Rhizomes and Their Food Value. James Hendrick, Chem. News, Dec. 31, 1920. 

Critique of Experiment With Diets Free From Fat-Soluble Vitamine. T. B. Osborne 
and L. B. Mendel, Jour. Biol. Chem., Jan. 1921. 

Cultivation of Yeast in Solutions of Purified Nutrients. M. B. MacDonald and E. V. 
McColIum, Jour. Biol. Chem., Jan. 1921. 

lodometric Determination of Copper and Its Use in Sugar Analysis. P. A. Shaffer and 
A. F. Hartmann. I. Equilibria in the Reaction between Copper Sulfate and Potassium 
Iodide. II. Methods for the Determination of Reducing Sugars in Blood, Urine, Milk, and 
Other Solutions. Jour. Biol. Chem., Jan. 1921. 

Chemistry of Vitamines. Atherton Seidell, Jour. Indus. Chem. Engin., Jan. 1921. 

Heat Resistance of Spores with Special Reference to the Spores of B. Botulinus. H. 
Weiss, Jour. Infec. Dis., Jan. 1921. 

Vitamines, Appetite, and Digestion. Editorial. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., Jan. 1, 1921. 

Nutritional Requirements of Yeast. I. Role of Vitamines in the Growth of Yeast. II. 
Effect of the Composition of the Medium on the Growth of Yeast. E. I. Fulmer, V. E. 
Nelson, F. F. Sherwood, Joiir. Amer. Chem. Soc, Jan. 1921. 

Story of the Prune. G. Orb, Sci. Amer., Jan. 15, 1921. 

Recent Developments in Child Feeding. Mary S. Rose, Teachers Coll. Rec., Nov. 1920. 

Shelter 

Furniture of the Low Countries. W. G. Blaikie Murdoch, Good Furniture Mag., Jan. 
1921. 

Antiques and Antiquing. R. F. Bach, House and Garden, Jan. 1921. 

General 

German Vegetable-Fiber Industry. Chem. and Metallur. Engin., Dec. 22, 1920. 

Dye Industry [English]. Nature, Dec. 9, 1920. 

Some Economies in College and University. David Snedden. School and Soc, Jan. IS, 
1921. 

Mills in the Tropics. R. J. Blackham. Lancet, Dec. 4, 1920. 

Study of the Relation of Family Income and other Economic Factors to Pellagra 
Incidence in Seven Cotton-mill Villages in South Carolina in 1916. Joseph Goldberger, 
U. S. Pub. Health Reports, Nov. 12, 1920. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The New England Home Econonics 
Association has presented the following 
calendar. Its basic subject is The Relation 
of Home Economics to Health. 

The first meeting, held October 23, intro- 
duced the year's work by reports of condi- 
tions abroad and a suggested plan for health 
work in public schools. Mary McSkim- 
mon, President of the State Federation of 
Teachers' Clubs, spoke of the great faith 
and courage of the women of France and 
Belgium and urged that American women 
should do their utmost to carry the country 
safely through the coming hard winter. 
Mabel C. Bragg, Assistant Superintendent 
of Schools, Newton, outlined the Health 
Program in the Newton Public Schools. 
She feels that the home economics teachers 
can do much to improve the health of the 
children in the public schools. Mrs. Schuy- 
ler F. Herron, Director of the Home Depart- 
ment of the Eastern States Exposition, 
outlined the work and purposes of the 
exposition. 

The second meeting, held November 13, 
had a large attendance. Intense interest 
was shown in Mabel Todd's explanation 
of why so many women, and men too, are 
inefficient machines. Physical balance she 
affirmed was fundamental to mental balance. 
With diagrams, photographs, and a human 
pelvis she made clearly evident the need of 
proper posture both in standing and in sit- 
ting. 

Mrs. Ida Harrington showed the relation 
of posture to form and health and their rela- 
tion to attractiveness. She told, in detail, 
how to make "Betty" your own dress form. 
The construction of "Betty" is not difficult 
and her use by the home dressmaker needs 
to be encouraged as a measure toward econ- 
omy and beauty. 



The Clothing Bureau, Boston, showed 
how its efforts were applied towards Stan- 
dards in Dress, in buying, in overcoming 
difficulties in shopping, and in other helps 
for the buyer. 

An appeal came from the Children's Hos- 
pital telling how individuals, groups, and 
schools could cooperate their sewing and 
other hand-work lessons with the hospital 
in supplying constantly needed articles. A 
standard set of samples is furnished. 

At the third meeting, December 11, the 
subject was The Development of Home 
Economics under the Smith-Hughes Act 
and Needs in the Field Making the Passage 
of the Fess Bill Important. 

Deputy Commissioner Small, Massa- 
chusetts Department of Education, paid 
tribute to the good work done through home 
economics during the war, presented the 
greater needs and opportunities of the pres- 
ent, and urged redoubled zeal. He said 
educational opportunities must be increased 
until every individual is reached. Educa- 
tion in home making should be given to 
every child in the regular schools, but after 
and beyond school age there should still be 
individual opportunity to study the prob- 
lems of the home. Massachusetts allots 20 
per cent, or one fifth, of the Smith-Hughes 
appropriation for home economics teaching. 
Each community receives its aid on a pro 
rata basis. The Smith-Hughes money then 
enables the community, not only to lengthen 
the time for study, but to broaden and deepen 
its possibilities. 

Mr. Redman, Assistant Director of Ex- 
tension Service in Massachusetts, and Minnie 
Price, Home Demonstration Agent for 
Hampden County, Mass., showed how the 
provisions of the Smith-Lever Act were 
carried out in the counties through the fol- 

143 



144 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



lowing projects: Household Management, 
Food Preservation, Health, Clothing Effi- 
ciency, Nutrition, Milk Campaign, Dental 
Clinics, Nutritive Group Study, Fly Cam- 
paign, and Community Tours. Kitchen 
equipment was studied by some groups. In 
New England the work is done in cooper- 
ation with some county organization. In 
Massachusetts during the year ending 
November 30, more than 150,000 persons 
have participated in some form of home 
economics study and practice. 

Mr. Redman emphasized the evident need 
of training extension workers in writing 
good reports. His advice, "Learn how to 
make a good report of your work," should be 
an integral part of teacher training. Miss 
Price's excellent report showed the high 
standard which may be reached. While 
so much is accomplished a large field is 
still barren because of too little money. 
Therefore is seen the importance of "our 
bill," the Fess BUI or Amendment, which, 
when adopted will place vocational home 
economics on a par with agriculture and 
trade and industry in the amount of money 
allotted. 

Adelaide Steele Baylor, Federal Board 
for Vocational Education, came from Wash- 
ington to tell of their outlook and achieve- 
ments. To establish a democracy homes 
are necessary for its citizenship. Home- 
makers are carrying on a vocation. Their 
jobs need to be analyzed, which requires ex- 
tended research. Teachers need contact 
with the vocation, and must therefore go into 
homes and work under supervision. Expert 
supervision is not now provided because of 
lack of funds. The application of these 
three acts — Smith-Lever, Smith-Hughes, and 
the Fess Amendment — should give to each 
home and each community a richer, freer, 
fuller life. By such a life is assured the life 
of the Nation. 

The "Washington (D. C.) Home Eco- 
nomics Association has planned to hold a 
meeting once every two months. At these 
meetings the home economics people of this 
section have become acquainted with each 
other, have made themselves familiar with 



each other's problems and plans, and have 
made an effort to keep abreast of some of the 
newer movements of interest to women. 
Some of the meetings have been devoted tc 
mere social good times. 

The December meeting was addressed by 
Mrs. Philip North Moore on the subject 
" Some Glimpses of the International Council 
of Women Meeting in Christiana," and by 
Jeannette Rankin on the "Sheppard- 
Towner Bill." At the last dinner, which was 
the bi-monthly meeting, there were one hun- 
dred and ten home economics people present. 

Mrs. Henrietta Calvin is president and 
Miss Ridgway secretary. 

NOTES 

Marj' E. Sweeny, President of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association, is now 
Dean of Home Economics, IMichigan Agri- 
cultural College, East Lansing. Miss Sweeny 
was formerly Head of the Home Economics 
Department of the University of Kentucky, 
and in charge of Home Economics Extension 
Work. She had been connected vdih the 
University of Kentucky since 1912. During 
the years 1918 and 1919, she ser%-ed over 
seas ^-ith the American Army in the Canteen 
Service of the Y. M. C. A. 

Miss Frances Zuill, instructor in the 
Department of Household Arts Education 
at Teachers CoUege, Columbia University, 
has been appointed Supervisor of Home Eco- 
nomics in the Public Schools of Baltimore, 
Maryland. 

Maud E. Hayes, formerly Specialist in 
Home Economcs Extension Service, Con- 
necticut Agricultural College, Storrs, Con- 
necticut, is now Supervisor of Home Eco- 
nomics in the Long Beach City Schools, 
Long Beach, California. 

Flora G. Orr has resigned from the edi- 
torial staff of The Delineator, her work end- 
ing ■n-ith the March issue. Miss Orr went 
to The Delineator directly from editorial 
work in the Food Administration. 



Vol. XIII, No. 4 April, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

B.VTBVAJ^DziLMi, Acting Editor Keturab E.'B Aivwia, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Amy Daniels Roth Wheeler Katharine Fisher 

Ex-Officio Members— "Maky E. Sweeny, President American Home Economics Association 
NoLA Treat, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton, Chairman Science Sectioii 
Ola Powell, Chairman Extension Educational Section 
Lillian Peek, Chairman Textile Section 

Colla'ioralors— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Home Ecoxoiiics in a Girls' Commercial High School Evelyn W. Allan 145 

Utility in Education 150 

Opportunities for Women in the jNIodern Hotel Mrs. Lois Peirce Hughes 151 

The Contribution of European Experience on Low Diets to Our Teaching of 

Dietetics ' Agnes Fay Morgan 157 

The High School Clothes Line 169 

For the Homemaker 

A Brief History of a Child Who Has Nev^er Been III Jessie Rich Arms 175 

Tea Susannah Usher 177 

Editorial 181 

The Open Forum 183 

Books and Literature 185 

News from the Field . . 189 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registerea letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal op Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



JOURNAL OP HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 




r " ! I ■! I 1 



-i—i^ 




d^L-i 






-'''a 




THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 



Your biscuits, rolls, gems and other dainty 
bread-stuffs can be no better than the bak- 
ing powder with which they are made. 
Good baking powder is the leavening agent 
that makes them light and digestible. It is 
the keystone in the making of appetizing, 
wholesome cake, biscuits, muffins, etc. 

Gi course, you want only the best of bak- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when you use 

ROYAL 

Baking Powder 



Made from 

Cream of Tartar 

derived from 

Grapes 

CONTAINS 

NO 

ALUM 





--> 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIII APRIL, 1921 No. 4 

HOME ECONOMICS IN A GIRLS' COMMERCIAL HIGH 

SCHOOL! 

EVELYN W. ALLAN 
Principal, Girls' Commercial High School, Brooklyn, New York 

Every American educational institution is pledged first of all to develop 
the ideals of democracy and to educate both girls and boys for the 
duties of citizenship. Not only universities and colleges but even high 
schools feel the necessity for providing each generation with some means 
of coming into at least a fraction of its rightful inheritance of the world's 
treasures in literature and art as well as of understanding something of 
its modern scientific achievement. When a high school, in addition to 
these common aims, lays special stress on: (1) preparing pupils for enter- 
ing helpfully into the commercial life of the community, by giving them 
the necessary fundamental training and an intelligent comprehension 
of the commercial opportunities offered in their city; (2) establishing a 
vital relation with the business community so that the school shall be, 
not only an avenue leading into commercial life, but a source of supply 
to the business system of the community, a recognized point of contact 
between the educational system and business life; and (3) keeping so 
closely in touch with business forms and methods that each new change 
shall promptly be adopted into the commercial training, — then such a 
school is rightly differentiated as a commercial high school, however 
relatively broad or narrow the scope of its training and service to the 
community. 

' Presented at the meeting of The American Home Economics Association held in con- 
nection with the Division of Superintendence, N. E. A., Atlantic City, February, 1921. 

145 



146 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

A giris' commercial high school must do even more; it must keep in 
mind that its graduates may leave business at any time (according to sta- 
tistics at the end of the sixth or eighth year) to become homemakers and 
mothers. What is more upon the conscience of the educator than the 
training of these girls, who are actually a factor in business life, who 
become citizens, founders of homes, spenders of the family income, and 
who bear and rear children, to the profit or loss of the next generation? 
Personally, I think it equally important that boys, who eventually 
become householders, earners of the family income, and fathers of fami- 
lies, should be prepared for their responsibilities. In fact, I should like 
to sketch a course in home economics for boys, but, as that is not my 
present problem, I shall confine myself to the home economics courses 
for girls to which we are all so thoroughly converted that every com- 
mercial high school I know anything about (except my own) offers 
special homemaking subjects, as electives. 

I have indicated all that a girls' commercial high school should accom- 
phsh in theory, now what are the facts? First, while such a school is 
differentiated as a commercial school, its commercial range does not 
yet include much beyond stenography, typewriting, and bookkeeping; 
and, when these subjects are not found in the first year, hundreds of 
girls go to the shorter courses of the private business schools. The 
parents of boys are convinced of the value of a four years' commercial 
course, and the boys themselves are held by the broader interpretation 
of the commercial curriculum to include, not merely stenography, type- 
Writing, and bookkeeping, but all the occupations concerned with the 
exchange of commodities, such as transportation, banking, advertising, 
insurance, and business management. The same parents are not con- 
vinced of the value of such a four years' training for their daughters. 

Let us examine the reasons why the girl elects the commercial high 
school. 

Her family fears that she may some day be obliged to support herself, 
and it is the wise virgin who fills her lamp. If she has stenography and 
typewriting at her command, she will be able to maintain her place in 
her stratum of society. Or her family is actually dependent upon her 
help in supporting and educating the younger children. The com- 
mercial course is a direct route to a "nice respectable office job." Or 
the family income, though sufficient to send her to high school, is static. 
She sees no way to reach the larger social life she begins to crave — the 
smart clothes, the activities that demand many "extras" — except by 



1921] HOME ECONOMICS IN A COMMERCIAL HIGH SCHOOL 147 

earning them herself at the end of her high school course. The family- 
has come to look upon her ability to do so as her dowry, or "dot." 

I have not mentioned the girl who chooses the commercial high school 
because she is ambitious to be a real business woman, to be an employer, 
to risk her own capital, and to take her place among competitive firms. 
I am under no illusions about the business woman. There are thou- 
sands of women in business, but, as yet, only an infinitesimal number 
of business women. 

If you examine the three reasons that I have given for the choice of 
the commercial high school, you will discover the same attitude in all 
three — home the ruling interest, business a transient means. "Ah," 
you say, "if these are the facts, how fortunate that we have home 
economics for her in the commercial course." But alas! She finds only 
repetition of her elementary subjects. It is my conviction that cooking 
and sewing, per se, belong in the elementary school. Advanced courses 
in cooking and sewing, dressmaking and millinery, belong in the voca- 
tional high school, which trains dietitians and makes dressmakers and 
milliners for the trade. 

The high school girl is usually a factor in the home kitchen. She has 
no opportunity to lose the knowledge and experience that she has gained 
in her elementary school training, and she is intelligent enough to follow 
suggestions made in high school courses, report on her results, and go 
on building on her elementary knowledge. In her general science course 
she learns as much about food values as the ordinary housekeeper needs 
to know; in her hygiene course she gets, not only personal hygiene, but 
the hygiene of the home; in home nursing she learns many other phases 
of home economics. It is a joy to me to hear in a class in community 
civics that there are twenty-four milk stations in Brooklyn, and that a 
doctor and a nurse are in attendance to weigh babies that the mothers 
in the neighborhood take there for examination and advice; to hear the 
family budget discussed in relation to food, clothing, recreation, and 
kindred topics; and to see the enthusiasm that centers around the home. 
And these courses are not elective. 

While conditions differ in various parts of the country and are shift- 
ing yearly, I have questioned more than two thousand girls in New 
York City connmiercial high schools, and of the two thousand, all of 
whom learned to sew in the elementary schools, only sixty-three actu- 
ally do sew. "Nobody in our family has time to sew," they tell me. 
Their sisters go to business; their mothers are too busy. "It is more 



148 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

satisfactory to buy things ready made." And so it is, whether one 
lives in the center of the garment industry, or buys from a mail-order 
house by parcel post. Just as the making of quilts, comfortables, and 
curtains has been taken out of the home to the factories, so now sheets, 
pillowcases, and towels are not even hemmed at home. There are 
specialty shops with merchandise only for infants, others only for 
juniors, still others for misses; this high degree of specialized merchan- 
dising standardizes styles and reduces costs. Women's garments are 
di\dded into house dresses, afternoon dresses, evening gowns, negliges, 
sport suits, and so forth, and any one must see in this constant advance 
the passing of the homemade garment. Over a hundred of my two 
thousand claimed to make underclothes, but "not everyday ones, just 
fancy ones." 

In facing the facts, we must acknowledge that our homemaking 
courses do not hold the girls in school ; and that they are entirely extra- 
neous to the commercial work and are only of mild interest to the girl 
who gets enough practical domestic science at home and knows that she 
will always buy her clothes ready-made. 

What then do I suggest that will better function in our commercial 
course? I should, for the present at least (nothing can be permanently 
adjusted), recast the course into the economics of buying. The study 
of general economics forms a part of the regular course, and a very defi- 
nite course in merchandising for herself, her dependents, her home, 
could be easily dovetailed. She needs to know more about buying 
everything, beginning with food, and more about the food market, 
cold storage problems, and the like. She buys furniture scarcely know- 
ing one wood from another, and knowing nothing of joinery, finish, 
varnish, or of period styles and their appropriateness to her home 
environment. She buys carpets and rugs blindfolded by ignorance of 
all color harmony, pattern value, and wearing quality; she never does 
"remember" whether she has bought a Wilton, an Axminster, a 
Brussels, or something else. She may be "keeping up with the Joneses," 
but that is her only standard. This same person buys lamps, china, 
silver, sofa cushions, curtains, and chooses wall paper, yes, even pic- 
tures to hang on the walls and grow into the lives of the children. What 
has she been taught about buying such things? Does she even under- 
stand true economy in kitchen utensils? 

The majority of our high school girls know the fashionable woolen 
textiles used for women's suits, such as serge, tricotine, duvetyn, and 



1921] HOME ECONOMICS IN A COMMERCIAL HIGH SCHOOL 149 

the like, but beyond that textiles mean little to them. I have sold 
textile merchandise, and I know that the ordinary good customer cares 
little for anything but the style of the garment and the price. Because 
she has no standard of judgment, she can make no demand on the 
manufacturer; she is the easy mark of the designer and will wear the 
style in the price she is able to meet. Whose fault is it that she is 
betrayed into the caricature we commonly behold? Has her aesthetic 
taste been awakened, her sense of line and proportion been developed? 
Was she ever called upon to explain or defend the color of her sweater 
and the color of her hat? Does she know anything about color? Why 
do we leave her to become the victim of the lawlessness of fashion? 
You will appreciate that I am not urging just a course in textiles; not 
simply a study of silk and linen cotton and woolen; not even a study of 
woods, metals, glass, and porcelain. What I am urging is a study of 
these in the form of merchandise for the home, controlled by the family 
budget, by the state market, by the canons of good taste. 

I have not dressed these suggestions in the popular terms of the "proj- 
ect problem," but I assure you that they can not be taught in any other 
way. Instead of the customary kitchen laboratory and sewing rooms, 
there should be a suite of rooms bearing the same relation to the home 
that the office practice room bears to the business office. They should 
be furnished by each class, in illustration of the principles I have men- 
tioned. Such rooms used for social occasions, for example club meet- 
ings, class luncheons, teas for visitors, are also a real factor in helping 
to develop the social graces so sadly lacking in some of our girls of high 
school age, but just as necessary for the general good as the economic 
buying for which I have been pleading. In this way, I believe, the high 
school girl can best be fitted for her double vocation — the office and the 
home. 



150 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

UTILITY IN EDUCATION 

An Interpretation of the Spirit of the Times 

To say that education has shifted from the classical-cultural to the 
industrial t}T)e is to intimate that society itself has undergone a radical 
economic transformation. The characteristic elements of this change 
are outgrowths of the eighteenth century Industrial Revolution, now 
finding somewhat belated expression in America in the current social 
readjustment. Two of its outstanding features, the money economy 
and the machine-production economy, have made possible an almost 
incredible expansion of productive capacity which has slowly shifted 
the social center of gravity from the use of goods to their production. 
By far the larger part of the social resources are thus shunted toward 

the productive process No corresponding elaboration of 

technique has occurred in the field of consumption. 

Production is primarily competitive and dynamic, consumption 
emulative and static. The one develops, under modern conditions, a 
constantly improving technique, while the other changes but slowly. 
Production uses the social machinery freely and thus reacts directly on 
society; consumption pertains chiefly to the individual or small group 
and affects the social machinery but little. Now, the classical type of 
education, by which, of course, is not meant any particular set of studies 
but their fundamental purpose, is directed toward the promotion of 
appreciation and valuation, which are the basic elements of consump- 
tion. It has thus, like consumption, suffered a depression coincident 
with the overlordship of the productive interest. In addition it has 
had to bear the imputation that it is a mere luxury, that it centers on 
individual excellence rather than social worth, and that it breeds a 
culture caste inconsistent with democratic ideals. This latter indict- 
ment was never sound in logic, and in practise is true only to the extent 
that in an over-industrialized society the materials of culture are not 
socialized to the same degree as are productive agencies. A social 
readjustment in the interest of balancing-up the consumption technique 
will go far toward wiping out whatever stigma now attaches to cultural 
ideals. For after all culture is essentially social. Although beauty 
may possibly be its own excuse, no one has ever seriously contended that 
intellectual excellence can vahdate its existence except as it ministers 
to the unity and solidarity of the general life . . . . — U. G. Weath- 
erly in Educational Publicity, Scientific Monthly, February, 1919. 



1921] WOMEN IN THE MODERN HOTEL 151 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN IN THE MODERN HOTEL* 

MRS. LOIS PEIRCE HUGHES 

Manager Woman's Floor, Hotel McAlpin, New York City 

In a world in which all is change and growth, no more radical change 
has come than in the conduct of present day hotels. They have grown 
and expanded beyond the dreams of the most forward looking manager 
of a generation ago, and today one wonders what another generation 
will be able to add to the present mode of management and comfort. 

The metropolitan hotels with their ever increasing number of rooms 
and consequent increasing number of employees, together with the 
great amount of capital invested, make their managers true captains 
of industry, and hotel doors are now veritable doors of opportunity 
for the business woman, daily swinging wider for her admittance. 

Hotels, like other industrial plants, are divided into departments, 
each a spoke in the wheel of organization, the hub of which is the mana- 
ger. The conduct of each department calls necessarily for a high degree 
of system and skill in industrial management. At present scarcely a 
department exists that has not a woman employee, in fact some depart- 
ments so logically belong to woman's field, that they are now managed 
by women almost entirely. So far as I know, no man has ever applied 
for the position of housekeeper. That field still remains open to us, and 
for reasons with which we are aU familiar, seems to be essentially ours 
for some tim.e to come. 

The qualifications of a good housekeeper are manifold. She must 
be skilled in handling maids and housemen, must have a knowledge of 
linens and upholstery, carpets, rugs, hangings, and curtains. Nor is 
it a small task to provide for and keep track of bedding and linen for 
two thousand bedrooms, some with two beds to the room and with cots 
often added. Those who are fond of arithmetic can figure the number 
of sheets and pillowcases required to change these beds with four pillows 
for each every day, and keep some linen on the closet shelves, while 
other pieces are traveling back and forth to the laundry. So, too, with 
washable window curtains, towels, table cloths, and napkins, for the 
housekeeping department supplies the linen for the restaurants. The 
writing paper, ink, and pads which we find on our desks are supplied by 

' Presented at the meeting of the Institution Economics Section of the American Home 
Economics Association, Madison, Wis., May, 1919. 



152 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

this department, as well as the bathroom appurtenances, such as soap 
and wash cloth. This department is responsible for the keeping of 
the assembly and public rooms of the hotel, and for the window cleaning 
all over the house. If one is planning for a housekeeper's position she 
should add a course of interior decoration to the institutional manage- 
ment course, so that managers may be influenced in having the furnish- 
ings of hotels harmonious and restful. 

On each guest floor there is a floor desk, where a floor clerk is on duty 
from seven in the morning until twelve at night, with a change of watch 
twice during the day. These fifty floor clerks occupy important posi- 
tions. The floor records are kept by the clerks, the mail for each floor 
is distributed from the floor desks, telephone and telegraph messages 
are received by the clerks, and they come daily and hourly into close 
contact with the guests. They must, therefore, be of good presence, 
tactful, often quick in decision, and courteous at all times and under all 
circumstances. They are also links between the housekeeping depart- 
ment and the front ofiice. Their speedy report of rooms vacated and 
again made ready for incoming guests tends to lessen delay in the assign- 
ment of rooms. The head of the floor clerk department is a woman, 
and she and her assistants also have charge of the lost and found depart- 
ment. Hundreds of articles left in the haste of departure, or lost during 
residence in the hotel, are daily returned to the guests, be the guests 
far or near. Such a department encourages better morale on the part 
of the employees. They are less tempted to keep an article found, when 
they know it will otherwise be returned to the rightful owner from a 
department organized for that purpose. 

Women do the day-time bookkeeping, and the cashiers are all women. 
As each bill is kept up ''to the minute," literaUy, the bookkeeper's is 
no easy task, while the cashier must be ever alert with the change. 
This department has a woman head. 

The controller of the hotel is a woman and about two-thirds of the 
employees in her department are women. She is responsible for the 
women restaurant cashiers, also. At the end of each day her depart- 
ment furnishes an account of aU food sold during that day, so that the 
amount can be told in detail and in most instances the percentage of 
profit derived. This system tends to do away with losses because errors 
can be rectified at once instead of at the end of the month. The cashiers 
and checkers must do their work quickly, and you can realize how impor- 
tant it is to have it done correctly when three or four thousand guests 
are served in a day. 



1921] WOMEN IN THE MODERN HOTEL 153 

A few years ago I asked our chef why he did not have more women 
in the kitchens and pantries. He replied, "because they can not stand 
the heavy work and the heat, and besides they are a nuisance when 
working with men, as they either fight with them or fall in love with 
them, both bad conditions for work." But it happened that men fell 
to fighting each other, and the war had not progressed very far before 
the kitchens began to be short on men and long on women. They came 
into pretty nearly every department the chef controls, and with them 
came the sanitary inspectress. She is a woman who approached the 
manager and asked that she be allowed to try out sanitary work in the 
kitchens. A graduate of Teachers College, she was convinced that she 
could supplement the work of the employees in the kitchens. And 
she has succeeded most wonderfully. It was a bit startling to a French 
chef to have a woman, robed in white uniform and cap, come up to him, 
take hold of the towel he wore in his belt, shake her head and say, "Tut, 
tut, it will not do." Then she took it away from him and the perform- 
ance never had to be repeated. She loves to tell the story of the grease 
man whose work is to dispose of the grease and scraps. He was inclined 
to spatter when she first made his acquaintance and, as their language 
was not the same, she had some difi&culty in making him understand 
what she wanted him to do. The pantomime was very interesting for 
awhile. He had learned two English words, "hell" and "job", and as 
they were all he knew he frequently combined them for her. She only 
laughed and held her electric light— which he did not at aU need — to 
encourage him. Then one day he began to grasp what she meant. He 
smiled and forthwith vied with other employees in keeping his corner 
washed and clean. She had given him a bit of education and taught 
him to respect his job. One day, while trying to explain to another 
employee that his work would not pass muster, she turned to find the 
grease man standing by evidently enjoying the talk. She said, "Oh, 
there's the grease man; he knows how things should be," and the 
grease man, his face wreathed in smiles, said, "No, no, now grease clerk." 

Some paces beyond the grease clerk's ofl&ce, girls dress the fruit and 
pastry plates, and assist with the cakes. When our inspectress came, 
these girls were coming to work unsuitably dressed for pantry work. 
She had them don white aprons — large ones to cover the entire dress — 
and wear dainty white caps as do the men. This innovation saved 
laundering of waists and prevented a possible hair or hair pin from 
finding improper harborage. In the next pantry girls make salads, 



154 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

while beyond a girl is cooking buckwheat cakes. Girls assist in the 
silver pantry and in sorting and packing candies, after dipping chocolates 
or assisting in other ways in the candy-making. So girls and women 
have come into the kitchens and are making good, and the chef says he 
is glad to have girls take charge of the pantries, as he finds women are 
more careful and economical of the food they handle than are men. He 
thinks, too, they should prepare to be chemical analysts to work in the 
hygienic department and asks why they can not and do not make the 
cakes they like so much to eat. And why indeed? Surely no better 
training could be obtained by the girl or woman contemplating opening 
a tea room, than that in a hotel kitchen. 

So good has been the work of the sanitary inspectress that, when the 
New York Board of Health waged its drastic campaign of inspection 
of hotels and restaurants, it rated higher than all others the hotel in 
which she has found opportunity to demonstrate her worth and ability. 

One November on a given day at high noon, most of the waiters and 
many of the cooks in the hotel went on strike. In the course of a very 
few days their places were filled by women, and, for the first time in the 
history of metropolitan hotels, waitresses took the place of waiters. 
The Maitre d'Hotel has stated that it takes seven years to make a good 
waiter, yet in seven months they were replacing quite satisfactorily the 
seven year men. This was due rather to woman's ingenuity in performing 
the task at hand than to any educational background. Their short- 
comings were those incident to lack of years of training, not to a lack of 
the right attitude of mind toward their jobs. The fact that they are 
come marks a new era, and they are filling well their places in the great 
hotel. There is a matron, with a university training, to guide, assist, 
and encourage them, and also a gentlewoman who acts as banquet 
hostess, looking after the banquet rooms. 

The oflSicers dining hall for employees is in charge of a college woman 
and she has several women assistants. 

The telephone department is in charge of and operated entirely by 
women. Three thousand messages are averaged daily, with fifty-five 
women to handle them. 

The publicity department, in which is filed letters asking for reser- 
vations, is in charge of women. Names and addresses are recorded on 
the addressograph machine, and are filed away in a cabinet to become 
a part of a mailing list running into the thousands. These names have 
constantly to be checked and rechecked, and are used when notices of 



1921] WOMEN IN THE MODERN HOTEL 155 

special dinners, celebrations, or conventions occur. Circular letters are 
sent out from this department, reports of other departments are made 
up here, and lists are filed territorially and by state, town, name, and 
number. It is one of the busiest departments in the hotel. There is 
an opportunity here for girls clever in composing circular letters and in 
designing attractive cards for special entertainments. 

But what of the outside world, the great New York all about this 
great hotel? 

Come to my office and find yourself on a woman's floor and in a new 
department created, at the opening of this hotel, especially for women. 
Seventy-five rooms given over to their exclusive use and a library 
available for all guests, parlors and a hairdressing parlor, together with 
the office, make it unique and like an exclusive woman's club. "Will 
women want a woman's floor?" the manager asked me when I approached 
him several months before the hotel opened, and begged to be allowed 
to be the hotel's hostess and guide for the stranger within the gates. 
"Let us see," I replied, and so it came about that I was to establish 
the only woman's floor in the hotel world. I sent out three thousand 
letters under my own signature announcing it, and these went largely 
to club women, schools, and colleges. The response came at once, for, 
not only have club women and college girls wanted it, but others have 
been waiting for it. To it come women from all parts of the world, 
live women, distinguished women, business women agog with the world's 
work. 

Nor do I lack touch with the woman at home, for the tall, good-looking 
man, waiting his turn at the office door, hands me fifty doUars and asks 
that he be bought the prettiest blouse to be found, for the prettiest 
wife in Oklahoma, and "something a girl would like." He returns at 
evening to find his purchases awaiting him and is assured they may be 
returned if not satisfactory. But no purchase for the "woman at home" 
has ever come back. Nor is it less delightful to help select a seal coat 
"to surprise mother with" or to "slip around the comer," as he puts it, 
to Fifth Avenue with a charming young Southerner and give my opinion 
as to which of two engagement rings is the handsomer. 

One gets some mental shocks at times. A woman asked one day what 
she could see in ten days that was worth while, adding that this was 
her first visit to New York, and her husband, who had been there before, 
was most anxious to bring her in order that she might see the Penn- 
sylvania Railroad Station and the automat restaurant. A bridegroom 



156 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

confronted me with a list of things he wanted ''her" to see and I was 
rather surprised, after directing him how to find the Metropolitan 
Musemn, to have him ask, "And where is the nearest and largest five- 
and-ten-cent store. I want her to see one of them. They are curiosi- 
ties." They were on their way to find it, when a famous authoress laid 
her hand on my shoulder and asked the name of one of the characters 
in Cymbeline. It seemed a mental stunt, to go from a five-and- ten-cent 
store to Shakespeare, but so one is expected to dispense information. 

My secretary supplements my work, while a librarian and playroom 
director looks after the books and the children. The library is available 
for all hotel guests, and an outdoor playground gives an overflow place 
for the myriads of children whose merry laughter attests their enjoy- 
ment of quarters especially their own. 

So women work in the various departments of the Hotel McAlpin, 
and the associated hotels under the same management. Statistically 
the bureau of emplojnnent reports that the women average 60 per cent 
efficiency, and 75 per cent attendance. 

I believe there are three "C's" for women to learn in business, — 
courage, courtesy, and cooperation. First we must have courage to 
find a job and the courage to keep it and make good on it, once it is 
found. We must also have courage to ask for and receive pay that is 
commensurate with our work, remembering we are usually taken at our 
own valuation of our services. Women should learn, too, to control 
money, so that they may be trusted to manage large investments as do 
men. Then we must be courteous to each other. This is, I think, more 
important than being courteous to guests. The latter comes naturally, 
the other must be rigidly learned. And last, we must lay hold upon 
cooperation. We must forget all personal things for the good of the 
whole, of which, after all, we are at greatest only a very small part. 

Until women equal or excel men in work, they must be willing to 
complement men's work; and, after all, does not greater success come 
when work is carried on jointly by both men and women working har- 
moniously together? I am sure it has gone far in the success of the 
hotel with which I am connected. Hotel work is housekeeping on a 
larger and more systematic scale and, as women should be the natural 
homemakers and people come more and more to live in hotels, the 
opportunities in the work are manifold and limitless. The work requires 
patience, much tact, a sense of humor, and more good temper than 
any one mortal usually possesses. 



1921] EUROPEAN EXPERIENCE ON LOW DIETS 157 

THE CONTRIBUTION OF EUROPEAN EXPERIENCE ON LOW 
DIETS TO OUR TEACHING OF DIETETICS^ 

AGNES FAY MORGAN 

{Concluded) 

Reduction in basal metabolism. A less obvious result of undernutri- 
tion was the generally observed lowering of basal metabolism which 
accompanied or followed the loss of weight. The most complete study 
of this point was made in the Carnegie nutrition laboratory by Benedict, 
Miles, Roth, and Smith (22). This well planned experiment was carried 
out on 24 normal young men, 12 of whom existed for four months on a 
diet providing only ^ to f their normal caloric requirement, and 12 of 
whom acted as controls on normal diet, except for a period of three 
weeks of lowered food intake. The results of this study may be smumar- 
ized as follows: 

1 . There was a gradual reduction in weight on the lowered intake, till 
at the end of 3 to 10 weeks, an average loss of 12 per cent of initial weight 
was observed. The body weight remained fairly constant at the new 
level. The diet had at the same time been decreased from a fuel value 
of 3200 to 3600 calories down to 2300 calories net. 

2. The average total heat output of the subjects measured by the gas- 
eous exchange method, all subjects being massed in one respiration cham- 
ber, had decreased 25 per cent at the end of the weight reduction period. 

3. The heat output per kg. of weight and per sq. m. of surface averaged 
18 per cent lower than at the beginning. (Note that in Benedict's 
(23) study of a 31 day complete fast, the heat output measured in the 
same way had fallen 28 per cent.) 

4. The nitrogen balance was negative throughout, the average total 
loss of nitrogen being 150 grams for each subject. The daily nitrogen 
output on the low diet was 10 grams, on normal diet 13 or 14 grams. 

5. The pulse rate and blood pressure were lowered. 

6. The skin temperature was slightly subnormal in some subjects; 
the rectal temperature remained normal. 

The second squad on low diet for 3 weeks lost about 6 per cent of body 
weight. 

1 The first installment of this article appeared in the February number. 



158 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

It is stated that in general the subjects felt no bad effects from the low 
diet, although they complained of cold and some lassitude. Some reduc- 
tion in neuro-muscular activities of these men was noted by Dr. Miles, 
but no such marked decrease as was observed in the basal metaboHsm, 
An interesting phenomenon reported by this same investigator (24) 
is that of a marked lowering of sexual impulses in ^the subjects. 

Zuntz and Loewy (16) had previously noted a relatively excessive 
lowering of energy production in their own metabohsm after a body 
weight reduction of 10 or 12 per cent. They postulate a specific reduc- 
tion in metabolism with relatively large decrease in active cell substance. 

Jansen's (3) subjects with body weight not above 60 kg. on 2100 cal- 
ories and 60 gms. daily protein intake reached stationary weight and nitro- 
gen equilibrium. When only 1600 calories were given without decrease 
in protein ration, continued nitrogen loss was observed. A lowering of 
basal metabolism in each of these 13 subjects was noted. 

Joffe, Poulton, and Ryffel (25) report a study of prolonged undernu- 
trition in which the resting metabolism was as low as in complete star- 
vation. The pulse was slow. They found no increase in efficiency during 
work as measured by the rate of increase in respiratory exchange at dif- 
ferent rates of walking. 

Efficiency during work on low diets. The result as to working efficiency 
reported by these English investigators is in accord with the experience 
of the German observers, but opposed to that of Benedict and his 
co-workers (22). Jansen (3) noted an actual decrease in efficiency in 
his subjects and much irritabiHty and exhaustion following an enforced 
march. The increase above basal metabolism measured 12 hours after 
the walk and persisting for 24 hours, was in no case less than 30 per cent, 
and in at least one case was as high as 50 per cent. 

Zuntz and Loewy (26) found an excessively increased consumption 
of energy during a similar march, and also during the period following 
this exertion. 

The Boston investigators (22) report an increased efficiency in hori- 
zontal walking during the period of undernutrition. This gain over the 
normal was found to be 22 per cent of the total heat output after four 
months low diet, and 14 per cent after 20 days. Measured per horizon- 
tal kilogram-meter, the corresponding figures are 14 and 8 per cent. 
They conclude that a marked saving in energy requirement for walking 
may be ascribed to the use of reduced diet, whether the saving be con- 
sidered on the basis of gross energy or requirement per horizontal kilo- 
gram-meter. 



1921] EUROPEAN EXPERIENCE ON LOW DIETS 159 

The discrepancy between these experimental results may possibly be 
explained as due to the difference in duration of the periods of under- 
nutrition observed. The German subjects had involuntarily subsisted 
for nearly two years upon the low diet while the American subjects had 
lived at this level for only four months. 

It is possible that some vital stores in the latter had not yet been 
depleted, or that their condition had reached some intermediate stage 
favorable to economical oxidation, which had been passed by the German 
subjects. 

The varying results of these investigators are not in accord with the 
work of Lusk and Anderson (27) on efficiency during muscular work fol- 
lowing food ingestion. They have shown that for dogs, the quantity of 
energy needed to move a given body weight is the same regardless of the 
state of nutrition of the animal. Their dog performed 0.584 kilogram- 
meters of work to move one kilo of body weight one meter horizontally 
when fasting, and 0.580 kilogram-meters for a similar amount of work 
done by a well nourished dog. 

War edema. A most interesting and widely observed symptom of par- 
tial starvation is that of edema. This phenomenon has been noted in 
many previous wars and in times of famine, but has appeared in the 
recent war in an astounding proportion of the population of certain 
countries. In the recent excellent review of the literature on this sub- 
ject by Maver (29) attention is especially directed to the apparent fact 
that no specific vitamin deficiency is involved, but that low caloric intake 
is chiefly responsible. The complication of scurvy occurs occasionally in 
the course of the edematous disease, but according to Guillermin and 
Guyot (30), the two conditions cannot be considered as necessarily re- 
lated. The wet type of beri-beri shows also a certain amount of edema, 
as does hydremic anemia. The latter disease is mentioned as of fre- 
quent occurrence among the victims of war undernutrition. Schitten- 
helm and Schecht (31) of Kiel, published five articles in 1919 on war 
edema, in which they describe their experiments to show that salt and 
water excretion was unimpaired, and that a marked decrease in the pro- 
teins in blood plasma usually occurred. They believed either the excess 
of carbohydrate or the shortage of fat and protein, or both, may be the 
cause of the water retention. They state that this disease is comparable 
to the "mehlnahrschaden" of children fed on carbohydrate-rich and fat- 
poor patent foods. 

Bigland (32), who studied the edema found among British troops in 
the East, in India, and in Turkish prisoners of war, believes this symp- 



160 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

torn due to hyperactivity of the supra renal glands induced by starvation, 
and that the second stage may be pellagra. Maase and Zondek (33), 
Lange (34), and Knack and Neumann (35) describe the suddenness and 
apparently epidemic character of this dropsy as it appeared in Poland 
and in Germany in 1916 and 1917. It was most severe among prison- 
ers of war, inmates of institutions, and men who were forced to do hard 
work, exposed to the cold on low diets with little fat and protein. Bed 
rest or increase in the amount of fat in the diet or both were found to 
effect rapid cures. Most of the authors believe that kidney excretion is 
not at fault in the causation of the disease. 

The experimental edema recently described by Kohman (36) was pro- 
duced in animals on very low protein diets of a fluid character. Foods 
yielding acid oxidation products tended to produce the edema more 
readily than others, and high salt intake had a somewhat similar effect. 
The conclusion drawn is that the low protein and total energy and high 
water content of the diet rather than high carbohydrate or low fat are 
to blame. This is not in accord with the statement by Hiilse (37), who 
studied edematous cases over a number of years, that high protein diet 
leads to more edema than carbohydrate diet of the same caloric value. 
Nitrogen retention on high protein diet was shown by blood analysis to 
be due to interference with the process of deamination. The author 
supposes that some abnormal intermediary substances formed during 
amino acid metabolism are responsible for the unusual water retention. 

It is probable that some tenable physico-chemical explanation will 
be forthcoming eventually to explain the occurrence of water retention 
in such widely varying conditions as hydremic anemia, starvation, beri- 
beri, nephritis, pregnancy, infantile gastro-intestinal disorders, and 
scurvy. The infrequency of edema with the acidosis of diabetes renders 
somewhat doubtful Martin Fischer's (39) well known theory that all 
edema is due to colloidal tissue swelling in the presence of increased 
concentration of the hydrogen ion. 

Effect upon diabetes, gout, and cancer. A striking comment upon the 
effects of war diet found occasionally is that concerning the so-called meta- 
bolic diseases. Diabetes, gout, eclampsia and cancer were found in 
Germany at least to have decreased in severity and frequency during 
the war period. Magnus Levy (39) says that the increase of deaths from 
diabetes in Germany from 1900 to 1914 was from 245 to 444 per year. 
From 1915 to 1918, the number decreased to 202. He believes that the 
former rapid increase must be ascribed to over-eating. Loewy and 



1921] EUROPEAN EXPERIENCE ON LOW DIETS 161 

Strauss (40) and Determann (28) mention not only the decrease in the 
number of cases of diabetes and gout, but the decrease in the severity of 
old cases. Similar observations have been made in England and France. 

The bearing of this curious relation upon the often repeated saying 
that these are diseases of plethora is self evident. One wonders, how- 
ever, whether the net result to the public health should be struck in favor 
of the underfeeding with its inevitable tuberculosis, edema, and rickets, 
or the overfeeding with its possible cancer, diabetes, and gout. 

Effect of inadequate protein feeding. Practically every study of nitro- 
gen balance reported shows constant and often large body nitrogen 
loss on the war rations. Some of the studies were made in nutrition 
laboratories, some in prison camps, and some in hospitals. Since so 
little of the protein available in the diet was of animal origin, not much 
attention was paid to qualitative differences in the nitrogen sources. 
The already quoted experiments of Zuntz and Loewy (16, 26) and of 
Jansen (3) deal with body nitrogen loss in some detail. Jansen's subjects 
were losing about 2 gms. of nitrogen daily with an intake of 60 gms. of 
protein and 210 gms. of carbohydrate, yielding 1600 calories. When 
500 gms. of lactose were given in addition, nitrogen equilibrium was 
nearly attained. Kestner (41) fed six undernourished patients in a 
German hospital 110 to 120 gms. of meat in addition to the regular hos- 
pital diet, and found a large positive nitrogen balance with an intake 
even as low as 8 gms. of nitrogen. On 12 or 13 gms. of nitrogen, a reten- 
tion of 6 to 9 gms. was observed. He concludes that the protein deple- 
tion in these subjects on war diet must have been extreme. A French 
observer, A. Benoit (41), who was long a prisoner in Germany, carried 
out nitrogen balance determinations on 78 Russian prisoners for 16 
months. The average daily ration contained 48 gms. of protein, 14.6 
gms. of fat, and 332 gms. of carbohydrate, yielding 1702 calories. No 
loss of body weight and no nitrogen loss or disturbance of any kind was 
observed in the 78 subjects. The protein in the food was distributed as 
follows: 49 per cent from bread, 23.3 per cent from cheese, 16.3 per cent 
from meat and fish, 11.5 per cent from various vegetables such as pota- 
toes and beets. This total per cent of 39.6 from animal sources is gen- 
erous indeed, even though the energy supplied in the ration is small. It 
is probable that very little physical exertion was undertaken by these 
subjects. The average figure given by Benoit, 0.72 gms. of nitrogen 
per kg. of body weight, is a lower minimum than that usually quoted. 
Although nitrogen equilibrium has many times been demonstrated on 



162 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

0.6 and even 0.5 gm. per kilo, the experiments have seldom included 
definitely restricted caloric intake. 

In the exhaustive experunental study by Benedict and others (23), 
each of the subjects lost from 1.5 to 4 gms. of nitrogen daily over the 
whole period of 4 months. The total losses were from 130 to 252 gms. 
The authors believe that the nitrogen lost in this way represents com- 
pounds found in the fluid bathing the cells, so-called "surplus nitrogen," 
and the loss of which accounts for the lowered basal metabolism observed. 
Furthermore, they claim that the frequency with which nitrogen equili- 
brium was attained on an average intake of 1950 calories and 10 gms. of 
nitrogen furnishes further evidence in support of Chittenden's low protein 
theory. 

The articles by Hindhede (7) in connection with this same controversy 
are most interesting. He has frequently compared the plan of food con- 
trol in Denmark with that used in Germany to the evident disadvantage 
of the latter. The Danish food board, made up of four farmers and four 
scientists, refused to allow the farmers to feed grain and potatoes to ani- 
mals, and therefore insisted on a very great decrease in the number of 
pigs and cattle raised. As a result meat was scarce but breadstuflfs and 
potatoes were plentiful. Hindhede (42) reports a striking decrease in 
mortality in Copenhagen during the war, which he attributes to the low 
protein vegetarian diet thus enforced. The principles assumed by the 
Danish government on his recommendation were: 

1. No attention need be paid to the nitrogen minimum, since it can 
not be reached for human beings if enough calories are given. 

2. Fat is not necessary. 

3. Bran is a valuable food and well digested by man. 

One need hardly point out the debatable character of these assump- 
tions. At any rate under such a regime, and with a partial condition of 
alcohol prohibition, the death rate in Copenhagen for men 25 to 65 years 
of age fell 34 per cent and for women 17 per cent. This is compared with 
the greatly increased death rate in Germany where the Voit-Rubner 
standard of higher protein was in effect. The difference lies probably 
chiefly in the level of caloric intake available to the population of the 
two countries rather than in the character or quantity of the protein. 
Rubner (44) and other German physiologists are still convinced appar- 
ently that an excessively low nitrogen content in the diet is inadvisable, 
even though a German scientist is quoted by Taylor (45) as saying in 
1917 that the Chittenden standard of feeding was as valuable to the 



1921] EUROPEAN EXPERIENCE ON LOW DIETS 163 

German nation as the Hindenburg standard of fighting. Perhaps 
this opinion had a new and different meaning in 1919. 

The carbohydrate in war diet. An excessively large proportion of the 
food accessible to the European population during the war was made up 
of starch and cellulose. Sugar was scarce after the first year, and for 
sweetening saccharin was widely used. This had long been more gen- 
erally in use in Europe than in America, but during the war it became 
a staple part of the cook's equipment. It is reported to be the custom 
there even yet to carry a bottle of saccharin tablets in one's pocket to 
sweeten the food obtained in restaurants. Such a widespread and pro- 
longed experiment in the use of saccharin without reported detriment to 
health will tend to establish the sense of safety in the use of the sweeten- 
ing substitute for diabetics, or for economy in such times of sugar shortage 
and high prices as we have recently witnessed. 

The use of a diet made up more largely of carbohydrate than was 
formerly considered normal is blamed by Loewy and Brahm (5) for 
much of the edema, gastro-intestinal disturbances, and lowered resistance 
so widely observed in Germany. They state that the average war diet 
contained, instead of the usual 60 per cent, 68 per cent of total calories 
as carbohydrate in April, 1916, and 70 per cent or more in April, 1917. 
Much more than the usual proportion of this carbohydrate was from 
bran and similar indigestible substances. 

It is interesting to speculate as to the possible relation of this prepon- 
derance of carbohydrate to the decrease in occurrence of diabetes. To be 
sure, the amount of sugar consumed was greatly lowered even though the 
total amount of glycogenetic food was increased. This makes no less 
puzzling the contrast in frequency of diabetes among the carbohydrate- 
fed natives of India, for example, and the Germans on war diet. The 
determining factor of course may be the total quantity of food available 
rather than the relative amount of carbohydrate. It must be remem- 
bered that the diabetes observed in India by McCay (46) is said to be 
confined largely to the over-fed upper classes. 

Gastro-intestinal disturbances. The evidence as to interference with 
normal digestive acti\dty by the unusual character of the war diet is 
somewhat conflicting. In England the considerable amount of com- 
plaint of diarrhea and fermentation resulting from the use of the bran- 
containing war-bread was described by Hutchinson (47) as due largely 
to other causes. Kraus (48) and Loewy and Brahm (5), at the end of 
the war, stated that gastro-intestinal disease had been greatly increased 



164 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

among civilians in Germany by war diet. In the letter to the Journal 
of the American Medical Association (18) from Vienna in December, 
1919, however, it is stated on the authority of T. Weiss that a marked 
decrease in diseases of the digestive organs and in gout and diabetes had 
occurred, although rickets, edema, osteomalacia and tuberculosis had 
greatly increased. On the whole the impression gained from the litera- 
ture is that of noticeable increase in diarrhea, flatulence, intestinal 
catarrh, and similar evidences of the effect of a largely vegetarian diet. 
The minimum fat requirement. One of the first foods to become scarce 
in Europe was fat, and as the war progressed, the fat shortage became one 
of the most troublesome features of the war diet. Taylor (45) has 
described the acute situation in this regard as it existed in Germany in 
1916, and even in England the provision of fat of any kind was a dif- 
ficult problem. Hoover (15) mentioned the experience of the Belgian 
Relief Commission in providing 40 gms. of fat daily for the Belgian 
populace. This amount was apparently enough for the maintenance of 
health in all but adolescent children, who rapidly fell victims to tuber- 
culosis until this was checked by increase in their fat ration. Starling 
(49) discussed the problem of fat in the diet from the point of view of 
dietary statistics with the conclusion that the continental standard of 
18.4 to 29 per cent of calories from this source was not excessive. This 
is contrasted with the 34 to 39.4 per cent from fat in American dietaries. 
The Inter Allied Food Commission, in 1918, laid down 75 gms. as the 
minimum of fat in 3000 calories. 

Some of the authors, as noted before, ascribe the edema of starvation 
to lack of fat, and Aron (50) and Stepp (51) have been particularly em- 
phatic in the claim that fat foods are indispensable in the diet for other 
reasons than their possible vitamine content. The psychological value 
of fat in the diet for the prevention of early hunger, its culinary value, 
and its service in decreasing the bulk of the food, are all excellent reasons 
in themselves for the desperate attempts that were made to retain some 
fat in the war ration. The most important function of fat-containing 
foods seems, however, to be that of furnishing the so-called fat-soluble 
vitamine. It is difficult to discuss the effect of either fat-poor or salt- 
poor diets without at the same time considering the role of this vitamine. 

Bone diseases. Disturbances of bone growth and function, such as 
rickets, osteomalacia and osteoporosis are reported as greatly increased 
in frequency in Germany and Austria, and even in England the problem 
of the prevention and cure of rickets has become serious. The dietetic 



1921] EUROPEAN EXPERIENCE ON LOW DIETS 165 

treatment of these diseases consists usually of the addition of cod liver 
oil, milk fat, phosphorus, and calcium to the usual fare. Whether such 
therapy is effective because of its fat-soluble vitamine, its fat, or its cal- 
cium and phosphorus content, there is little uncontested evidence. 

Engel (52) of Westphalia in a recent interesting communication to 
the Lancet, states that a shocking proportion of children there under 
ten years of age are deformed as a result of persistent rickets. He esti- 
mates that ten per cent of the young children are, or have been, actively 
rachitic. Infants, on account of more prevalent breast feeding, have 
apparently been in a more favorable position than older children, since 
the infant mortality has fallen in about the proportion in which the mor- 
tality of children two to five years old has risen. This greatly increased 
spread of rickets is ascribed to lack of milk and other animal foods. 
The recent vigorously pursued theory of E. Mellanby (53), that rickets 
is caused directly by the absence of an antirachitic food factor similar or 
identical with the fat-soluble vitamine, is supported by these facts. 

Koepschen (54) has reported an endemic bone trouble among adults in 
Vienna and in the German cities, accompanied by edema, pains in the 
bones, and hemorrhagic tendency, which was being treated by the admin- 
istration of phosphorus and calcium salts, since cod liver oil is unobtain- 
able. He cites 19 reports on the subject in German journals. 

Two reports on osteomalacia, those by Alwens (55) and Bohme (56) 
are of interest in that they emphasize the close relation between this 
disease and rickets. The overshadowing importance of the internal 
secretion of the ovaries in the causation of osteomalacia is brought 
somewhat into question by the large numbers of cases among under- 
nourished men as well as women, and by the speed with which the 
condition is reported to yield to cod liver oil treatment. 

An interesting article by P. Grabley (57) in 1919 ascribes the war 
edema as well as endemic bone trouble and growth deficiency to faulty 
mineral metabolism and to insuflacient salt intake. He makes some gen- 
eral statements about the physico-chemical relations of the electrolytes 
to inactive purely organic substances in regulating the volume of body 
fluids. It seems that inorganic calcium compounds and other salt mix- 
tures were widely used in nearly all European centers in the war bread in 
an attempt to supply the elements which the lacking milk, eggs, vege- 
tables and meat usually provide. If Grabley's statement be accepted, 
this inorganic substitute was not altogether sufficient. 

Occurrence of scurvy and other deficiency diseases. As might be expected , 
a considerable incidence of scurvy, beri-beri, and pellagra was noted 



166 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

among both Chilians and troops. An excellent survey of reports of 
scurvy epidemics during the war was given by Hess and Unger (58) in 
1919. Most of the cases among soldiers were found in the ItaUan army, 
in British troops in Macedonia, in South African labor troops, among 
German prisoners in Turkestan, and among Russian prisoners in 
Germany. 

The well known researches carried on at the Lister Institute on the 
antiscorbutic factor in food st-em to have been inspired chiefly by the 
appearance of scurvy in the British army in the East. The British 
government in 1917 sent a corps of gardeners to Mesopotamia to plant 
vegetables for the use of the troops there in the effort to curb the spread 
of this disease. 

Most of the scurvy in Germany as reported by Morawitz (59) oc- 
curred among civiHans although some cases were found among soldiers 
on the Eastern front. An increase in the incidence of infantile scurvy, 
however, appears to have occurred in all the central countries. Tobler 
(60), Epstein (61) and Pollak (21) report from children's hospitals and 
orphanages in Berlin and in Prague, a large number of cases of Barlow's 
disease among children two to fifteen years of age, an age group hereto- 
fore practically free from scurvy. They ascribe this condition to the 
long contuiued diet of dried and otherwise preserved foods as well as to 
the lack of fresh and unheated food. 

Pickens (62) referred to 50 cases of scurvy in four months as treated 
at the Poor Law Hospital in Glasgow, and Harlan (63) to 16 cases in 
three months at Newcastle. This imusual number of scorbutic sufferers 
were nearly all middle aged civilians, mostly men who lived alone and 
who evidently had been Uving largely upon cereal foods as a result of 
the shortage of potatoes. 

Beri-beri is reported as having appeared chiefly among colonial troops 
from the far East who subsisted upon rice and similar restricted diet, 
and pellagra among Italian and British troops in the East. The recently 
published report (64) of the Medical Research Committee in England 
on accessory food factors contains much interesting and illuminating 
material upon this subject. The chief dietetic reason to which the 
committee seems inclined to ascribe the appearance of pellagra is that 
of low protein of poor quality. 

It is impossible here to do more than refer to the greatly increased 
volume of research upon the vitamine content of foods and the causation 
of the so-called deficiency diseases which has been stimulated by war 



1921 J EUROPEAN EXPERIENCE ON LOW DIETS 167 

necessity. The more obvious references, of course, are to the work on 
the anti-scorbutic factor carried on under the direction of Dr. Harriette 
Chick at the Lister Institute in London; that on the fat-soluble vitamine 
content of foods by Drummond at the Cancer Research Institute; the 
work on pellagra by Bigland and Enright of England, and Volpino of 
Italy; on the antirachitic factor by Mellanby; as well as the well-known 
work along similar lines in our country by Osborne and Mendel, McCol- 
lum, Steenbock, Underbill, WiUiams, Hess and linger, and a long list 
of others. Attempts at quantitative measurements are being made by 
many of these investigators, and a little of the haze which befogs 
our vision of this subject is being dispersed. 

To the student of dietetics, little that is really new can be said to have 
been brought forward by the war underfeeding of Europe. However, a 
wealth of valuable confirmatory data has been accumulated, and valuable 
illustrations from the war history will undoubtedly become part of our 
teaching and lecturing lore. The stimulation of interest in the problems 
of human nutrition which this great experiment has brought about is of 
course the chief item upon the credit side of the war diet experience. 
It remains for those who are concerned with the development of educa- 
tion in these matters to make use of the material so lavishly provided by 
the necessities and privations of war. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Pfaundler, M.: Munich. Med. Woch., 1918, 65, 173. 

2. Pfaundler, M.: Miinch. Med. Woch., 1916, 63, 1749. 

3. Jansen: Deutsch. Arch. f. Klin. Med., 1917, 124, 1. 

4. LoEWY, A.: Deutsch. Med. Woch., 1917, Nos. 6 and 7. 

5. LoEWY, A., AND Brahm, C: Zeit. Physiol.-didt. Ther., 1919, 23, 169. 

6. RuBNER, M.: Berl. Klin. Woch., Jan. 6, 1919. 

7. Htndhede, M.: Ugeskrift for Laeger, Copenhagen, 1919, 81, 183. Abst. in Jour. Amer. 

Med. Assn., 1919, 72, 1198. 

8. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 1918, 70, 1112. 

9. Waller, A. D.: Lancet, 1918, 1, 611. 

10. Greenwood, M., and Thompson: Brii. Med. Jour., 1918, IT, 133. 

11. Olmstead, Barr, and Dubois: Arch. Int. Med., 1918, 21, 621. Dubois, E. F., Arch. 

Int. Med., 1916, 17, 887. 

12. Gephart, F. C: Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., 1917, 176, 17. 

13. Talbot, F.: Amer. Jour. Dis. Child., 1919, 18. 

14. LusK, G.: Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 1918, 71, 821. 

15. Hoover, H. C.: Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 1917, 7, 922. 

16. ZuNTZ, N., AND LoEWY, A.: Berl. Klin. Woch., 1916, 53, 825. 

17. DuRio, A.: Wiener Med. Woch., Nov. 2, 1918. 

18. Letter to Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 1920, 74, 262. 



168 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

19. FuHGE, G.: Jahrhiichf. Kinderh, 1918, 88, 43. 

20. Pfaundler, M.: Miinch. Med. U'och., 1919, No. 31. 

21. PoLLAK, L.: Wiener Med. Woch., 1918, No. 23. 

22. Bent:dict, F. G., Mass, W. R., Roth, P., and Smith, H. M.: Publication No. 280, 

Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1919. 

23. Benedict, F. G.: Amer. Jour. Physiol., 1916, 41, 292. 

24. Miles, W. R.: Jour. Nerv. and Menial Di$., 1919, 49, 208. 

25. JoFFE, J., POULTON, E. P., AND Rytfel: J. H. Quart. Jour. Med., 1919, 12, 334. 

26. ZuNTZ, N., AND LoEWY, A.: Biochem. Zeil., 1918, 90, 244. 

27. LusK, G., and Anderson, R. J.: J ur. Biol. Chem., 1917, 32, 421. 

28. Determann, H.: Zeil.f. Ph-^nol-didt. Ther., 1919, 23, 147. 

29. Maver, M. B.: Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 1920, 74, 934. 

30. GuiLLERMiN, R., AND GiTYOT, F. : Rev. Med. de la Suisse Rom., 1919, 39, 115. 
31.,SCHiTTENHELM AND ScHLECHT; Zeil.f. Exp. Med., 1919, 9, 1. 40, 68, 75, 82. 

32. BiGLAND, A. D.: Ijincel, 1920, 1, 243. 

33. Maase, C, and Zondek, H.: Berl. Klin. Woch., 1917, No. 36. See Brit. Med. Jour., 

1917, 2, 560. 

34. Lange, F.: Deutsch. Med. Woch., 1917, July 12, p. 876. See Lancet, 1917, 2, 248. 

35. Knack, A. V., and Neumann, J.: Deutsch, Med. Woch., July 19, 1917, p. 901. See 

Lancet, 1917, 2, 248. 

36. Kohmann, E.: Aner. Jour. Physiol., 1920, 51, 378. 

37. HiJLSE, W.: Arch. Path. Anal. (Virchow's), 1918, 225, 234. Abst. in Chem. Abst., 1920, 

14, 1573. 

38. Fischer, M.: Edema and Nephritis, 1915, Part m. 

39. Magnus-Levy: Deutsch. Med. Woch., 1919, 45, 1379. 

40. LoEWY, A., AND Straus, H.: Deutsch. Med. Woch., 1919, 45, 369, 397. 

41. Kestner, O.: Deutsch. Med. Woch., 1919, 45, 235. 

42. Bekoit, a.: Compt. rend. sac. biol., 1919, 82, 151. 

43. Hindhzde, M.: Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 1920, 74, 381. 

44. RuBNER, M.: Deutsch. Med. Woch., 1919, 45, 1127. 

45. Taylor, A. E.: Saturday Evening Post, Feb. 17, 1917. 

46. McCay : Indian Jour. Med. Research, 1919, 6, 485, 

47. Hutchison, R.: The Practitioner, 1917, 99, 501. 

48. Kraus, F.: Berl. Klin. Woch., Jan. 6, 1919. 

49. Starling: Bn7. Med. Jour., 1918, II, 105. 

50. Aron, H.: Biochem. Z., 1918, 92, 211. 

51. Stepp, W.: Biochem. Z., 1911, 57, 135; 1912, 62, 405. 

52. En-gel, K.: Lancet, 1920, 198, 188. 

53. Mellanby, E.: Lancet, 1919, 196, 407, 856. 

54. KoEPSCHEN, A.: Zeit.f. In. Med., 1919, 40, 961. 

55. Alw-ens, Miinch. Med. Woch., 1919, 66, 1071. 

56. BoHME, A.: Deutsch. Med. Woch., 1919, 45, 1160. 

57. Grabley, P.: Deutsch. Med. Woch., 1919, 45, 1238. 

58. Hess, A. F., and Unger, L. J.: Amer. Jour. Dis. Child., 1919, 17, 221. 
59 MoRAWiTZ, P.: MUnch. Med. Woch., 1918, 13, 349. 

60. ToBLER, W.: Zeil.f. Kind... 1918, 87, 459; 88, 63. 

61. Epstein: Jahr.f. Kind., 1918, 88, 237. 

62. Pickens, R. M.: Lancet, 1917, 2, 21. 

63. Harlan, G. P.: Bril. Med. Jour., 1917, 2, 46. 

^. Report No. 38. Medical Research Committee on Accessory Food Factors (Vitamines), 
London, 1919. 



1921] HIGH SCHOOL CLOTHES LINE 169 

THE HIGH SCHOOL CLOTHES LINE 

FROM THE HOME ECONOMICS DIVISION, IOWA STATE COLLEGE, AMES 

Stage Setting: Living Room 

Group of High School Girls 

[Katherine and Ada on davenport] 

Characters: Katherine, in wool middy outfit 

Ada (short, stout), in made-over dress 

Genevieve, in wash middy and dark skirt 

Helen, in shirtwaist and skirt 

Dorothy (athletic), in sweater and plaid skirt 
Models: 

No. 1 Short, stout — coat too small, dark dress, white shoes 

No. 2 Small — white middy, blue collar, dark skirt 

No. 3 Frivolous — middy, plaid skirt, jewelry 

No. 4 Made-over dress 

No. 5 Tall, stout — blue tricotine, one-piece dress 

No. 6 Large — briUiant red dress 

No. 7 Tall, round-shouldered — eton dress 

No. 8 Frivolous — georgette, French heels, etc. 

No. 9 Neat — well-pressed clothes 

No. 10 Model No. 2, with apron over school dress 

No. 11 Neat house dress 

No. 12 Kimono, bedroom sHppers, cap, etc. 

No. 13 Run-over heels, careless 

No. 14 Hairdress exaggerated 

No. 15 Hairdress neat, becoming 

No. 16 Evening dress, extravagant 

No. 17 Short — organdy, vertical Hues 

No. 18 Tall — organdy, horizontal lines 

No. 19 White organdy, horizontal lines 

No. 20 White voile 

No. 21 Colored voile 

No. 22 Colored organdy 

No. 23 Silk dress 

Katherine. Ada, I am to have an allowance for my clothes, too. 
Today is the first I every knew how much money Dad makes. His 
income is about $2000 a year, and there are five of us. Mother 
and I talked over my clothes for next year and I am going to do 



170 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

all my own planning. They are going to give me an allowance of 
$135 for my clothes. 

Genedeve. My, that's not much! I saw a swell winter coat marked 
$135, and I tried to make Dad get it for me. 

Katherlne. I think it's a lot. It's really more than my share, for 
Dad explained to me all about our family budget. We have just 
about $170 each month for everything. Our rent is $40, and 
Mother says that now we h.ve no garden it takes nearly $60 for food. 

Genevieve. Can't you spend all the rest for clothes? 

Katherine. Mercy, no! Dad says he must save $25 a month, and then 
there are electric light bills, telephone, gas, laundry, newspapers 
and magazines — an awful lot of things. Thirty-five dollars a 
month is what Mother plans for clothes, and that leaves only $11 
for all those other bills. Honest, I don't see how Dad ever has 
any money for movies, or anything like that. 

Genevieve. Oh, I can get anything I want, if I just tease hard enough. 

Ada. I don't think that's right. That's selfish. You get more than 
your share and somebody in the family gets left out. 

Genevieve. Well, maybe it is. But Dad never talks things over with 
us. I don't believe Mother knows how much money he makes. 
We just spend all he'll give us. 

Ada. Do you girls remember what I did the first year with my allow- 
ance? I shall never forget how I wanted white kid shoes. Father 
said we positively could not afford them. When I got my allow- 
ance, the very first thing I bought was the white kid shoes. I 
never thought about needing a winter coat. When it was time to 
get one, I didn't have any money left. Mother said I must keep 
to my allowance, so I had to wear my old military coat which was 
too small. [Model 1.] Do you remember? 

Kallierine. But you had your white shoes. 

Ada. Yes, but I did not have a thing to go with them. White shoes 
look awful with dark dresses. 

Katherine. Ada, this is the way I am going to start. I am to get 
$11.25 every month. The first thing I bought is this middy. How 
do you like it? [Katherine stands and turns for inspection.] 

Girls. Isn't it good looking? How much did it cost? 

Katherine. The whole $11.25, but it is all I am going to get for school 
until after Christmas. I have some wash middies like yours, 
Genevieve, and this skirt is made out of one of Mother's. [Model 2] 



1921] HIGH SCHOOL CLOTHES LINE 171 

Genevieve. Speaking of middies, isn't Marguerite the limit, the way 
she fusses up? Who ever saw a sailor all decked out in jewelry, 
with his necktie spread out, and plaid trousers? [Model 3] 
Ada. I feel differently about made-over clothes since I have a budget. 

How do you like my dress? [Ada stands and turns] 
Genevieve. Is that a made-over? 

Ada. Yes, and I'm proud of it. Mother is an old peach at fixing 

things up. She is a regular camouflage artist. [Describes dress 

and gives cost of new material] 

Katherine. I'm going to get busy and make some clothes for myself. 

It'll make my money go farther. Remember that old plaid skirt 

of mine? Well, there's a skirt of Mother's too, that got torn. 

I'll bet I can put the two together and make a dress that looks 

as good as yours, Ada. Let's find a good pattern. [Model 4] 

Ada. I've been sewing, too. Bloomers! Good long ones! Warm 

woolly jersey ones! I tell you, I'm going to be comfortable this 

winter. No more freezing for me. [Lifts skirt and shows bloomers] 

Genevieve. Don't tell me you're going to wear long underwear! If 

you do, Mother will make me, sure. 
Ada. I should say so. 

Katherine. We really ought to, girls. I was frozen all last winter, 
only I wouldn't acknowledge it. I know that was why I got 
the "flu." 
Ada. I like bloomers anyway. I can climb around all I want to when 

I have them on. 
Genevieve. Have you seen Louise's new dress? Doesn't she look well 
in it? She is so large and tall, but you hardly realize it when she 
wears that dress. [Model 5] 
Ada. I wonder why. 

Genevieve. I guess it is because it is dark in color, and fits loosely. 
Those side pieces seem to do something, too. Wasn't that a funny 
story that the clothing specialist told us about a large girl who 
loved to wear bright colors. It reminded me of Ruth in her red 
dress. [Model 6] 
Ada. What was it? 

Genevieve. A large girl went to a dressmaker to get a red dress made. 
The dressmaker said she would make her a pretty brown dress and 
trim it with henna, but the girl still insisted on the red dress. 
Finally the dressmaker told her that nature dressed the larger 



172 THE JOURNAL OF HOAEE ECONOMICS [April 

animals in neutral colors, but the small dainty creatures have color 

to make up for their lack of size. The elephant always wears 

taupe, while the humming bird wears briUiant colors. 
Katherine. Emma's new eton dress is real camouflage. It covers up 

her round shoulders. The loose jacket and wide belt fill in the 

hollow back. [Model 7.] 
Ada. Here comes Helen. I never could look so nice as that in a shirt- 
waist and skirt. 
Helen. I heard you gins talking about my waist. Mother doesn't 

allow me to wear georgette waists. But I do want to show you 

my new shoes. Aren't they good looking? 
Katherine. Do you like those heels? 

Helen. You bet I do. You can walk miles without getting tired. Mr. 
, Smith, the shoe man, told me all about this straight last. It is 

the only kind of a school shoe. How do some girls wear those 

horrid French heels? [Model 8.] 
Genevieve. Well, I never thought I'd come to it, but I'm wearing that 

kind and I like 'em, too. 
Katherine. Look, everyone of us has on the same kind of shoes. Aren't 

we getting sensible ! 
Ada. My, that's a good-looking skirt, Helen ! 
Helen. I've just spent hours pressing it. No matter how nice your 

clothes are, if you don't press them they don't look right. ''Well 

pressed is well dressed," you know. [Model P.] 
Genevieve. You're right, Helen. Some girls look as if they slept in 

their clothes. Mary Jones just steps out of hers at night and 

they "sure" do look it. She doesn't have a single clothes hanger. 

Her Sunday dress is all out of shape. It looks as if it hung on a 

nail, the way it is punched out in the back. 
Katherine. You have to keep them clean, too. Mother says avoiding 

spots "beats" removing them. I always wear an apron when I 

am helping with the dishes. Right over my school dress. [Model 

10] 
Helen. I wear a house dress on Saturday morning. It is just great 

to work in, and I can answer the doorbell without being ashamed. 

[Model 11] 
Genevieve. I stayed with Mary Jones last Friday night, and you should 

have seen her trying to work Saturday morning in her kimono and 

breakfast cap. She certainly was a scream. [Model 12] 



1921] HIGH SCHOOL CLOTHES LLNE 173 

Ada. I am not surprised at Mary Jones' doing that; she always looks 
so shabby. Her shoes are run over at the heels and always muddy 
because she won't wear rubbers. [Model 13.] 
Helen. Dad is a stickler about shoes. He says repairs and polish 
keep our bills down. Shoes and hats dress one up, don't you think? 
Ada. Girls, I did get a coat this winter. [Pause: Ada gets coat and tries 
it on.] How do you like it? It cost $35. I saved three months 
of my allowance last summer for it. [Gives merits in detail.] 
Katherine. Let's see your new hat. 

Ada. O, this one? It's my last year's one reblocked. [Ada gets hat.] 
Katherine. Let me try it on. 

Dorothy. [Entering.] Hello, girls, what are you talking about? 
Girls in chorus. Clothes ! and hats ! 
Genevieve. That's a good-looking hat of yours, Dorothy. 
Helen. How would I look in Dorothy's hat? 
Dorothy. You couldn't wear it. 
Helen. Why not? 

Dorothy. You never could get it on over that hair. 
Helen. [Tries to put on hat] I guess you're right. I wish I could wear 

a hat like that. It's so pretty. 
Genevieve. That's what you get by wearing your hair in that ridiculous 
way. Helen sits in front of me in school and I just can't see around 
those huge puffs. 
Katherine. Would you like to see the silhouettes from our class party? 
They are a scream! Guess who this is. [Holds silhouette A.] 
[Model 14.] 
Dorothy. Ruth? 
Katherine. No. 
Genevieve. NeUe? 
Katherine. No. 
Ada. I bet it is Alice. 

Katherine. We all comb our hair alike, but you are all fooled. It's I. 
Dorothy. That's right, you did comb your hair ^dth such big puffs. 

But it's lots more becoming now. Why did you change? 
Katherine. Brother kidded me so much that I finaUy changed it to 

please him, and everybody tells me it is better this way. 
Ada. Your face is too narrow for such big puffs. 
Katherine. Who is this? [Holds silhouette B] 
Helen. It's Sylvia. [Model 15] 



174 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Katherine. You are right. She — 

Genevici'c. She certainly combs her hair prettily. Mother said she 

made the best appearance of our whole class. 
Helen. I don't suppose you old critics approve of me. 
Ada. Your ear bobs are too big for your face. 
Helen. Thank you! 

Genevieve. Helen, you need not get peeved, it's the truth. 
Katherine. Let's change the suoject before we scrap. 
Dorothy. Girls, what are >ou going to wear to Mary's party? 
Helen. Eloise is going to doll up in her evening gown. Some gown! 

You'd think she was a silly butterfly. [Model 16] 
Ada. I am going to wear my orange organdy. [Model 17] 
Dorothy. Those up-and-down lines do make you look taller, and orange 

is good with your complexion. 
Ada. I do like orange for a change. I get so tired of just blue and 

pink. 
Genevieve. Josephine is going to wear her organdy, too. The bands 

make her look shorter. [Model 18] And Sue is going to wear 

her graduation dress. [Model 19] 
Helen. The seniors certainly looked fine. I like white best, myself, 

but it was pretty to have some of the girls wear colored organdies 

and voiles for graduation. [Models 20, 21, and 22] 
Genevieve. Helen, did you really make that silk dress you wore last 

Sunday? [Model 23] 
Helen. Yes, "Simplicity is the keynote," as Miss Smith says. 
Genevieve. Going back to allowances. Katherine, what did you say 

your father allows you for your clothes? 
Katherine. $135, that is, $11.25 a month. 

Genevieve. Do you have to get shoes, stockings, and everything? 
Katherine. Yes. 
Ada. I do it, and it really works. Come over and I will show you my 

budget book. 
Genevieve. I am going home and persuade the folks to put me on an 

allowance. It will make it so much easier for me when I go to 

college. 

Curtain 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

A BRIEF HISTORY OF A CHILD WHO HAS NEVER BEEN ILL 

JESSIE RICH ARMS 

The little child is just twenty-eight months old and of the weight 
and height required by the standard score-card of the American Medical 
Association for the normal child of that age. 

She was born during the frightful "flu" epidemic which swept the 
country in 1918 and caused the death of the attending physician ten 
days after the child was born. Her weight at birth was four and one- 
quarter pounds; a day nurse only was available, and that for a short 
time; and the case was dismissed from the hospital on the fifth day 
because of the large number of influenza patients there. At the end of 
the third week her father came down with the "flu;" any sort of nurse 
was entirely out of question; and help in the kitchen of a reliable or 
safe character was transitory. 

Thus the tiny life began in contrast to the careful preparation made 
for her coming. The best hospital accommodations had been secured, 
and help at home to care for the bedding and clothing had been selected 
after careful testing for the social diseases so common among help in 
the South. However, the child inherited a good constitution, and, 
despite the fearful conditions, the essential factors of child welfare could 
be controlled and enforced, and at twenty-eight months she has never 
been ill. 

The mother was able to feed her in part during the first twelve months. 
The supplementary food was modified cow's milk and after the eighth 
month small quantities of orange juice. The milk was special baby 
milk with low bacterial count and modified to a given formula with 
boiled water and cane sugar. The nipples, bottles, milk, and baby were 
never entrusted to the colored help, but were looked after by the mother. 
The feedings were given at regular intervals and, after the eighth week, 
on the four-hour schedule. 

At thirteen months the child was taking whole cow's milk and was 
ready for strained oatmeal and egg yolk. Gradually spinach, string 

175 



176 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

beans, peas, carrots, and prunes — all strained — were added to her diet 
with dry toast or stale bread, baked potato, fruit gelatin, and baked 
apple. 

After the middle of the second year (20 months) her menu could be 
formed from the following simple dishes, with the addition of one quart 
of milk a day: string beans, peas, spinach, carrots, baked potato, scraped 
beef, chicken, lamb chops (all meats in very small amounts), eggs, cream 
vegetable soups, prunes, oran^jie juice, pineapple juice, baked apple, 
cereals (well cooked), gelatin, custard, and tapioca. Her schedule would 
present some such form as the following: 

7.00 a.m. — Warm milk, 8 ounces; oatmeal (well cooked), 3 table- 
spoonfuls with 2 tablespoonfuls milk; toast, 1 slice. 

10.00 a.m. — Orange juice, 4 tablespoonfuls; 1 thin slice of bread and 
butter. 

12.00 m. — One egg (soft cooked); string beans (cut), \ cup; \ baked 
potato; gelatin, \ cup; milk, 8 ounces. 

3.30 p.m. — Milk, 2 ounces; 1 graham or arrowroot cracker. 

6-6.30 p.m. — Cereal, 3 tablespoonfuls, with 2 tablespoonfuls milk; 
toast, 1 slice; milk, 8 ounces. 

The menu provides from 1000 to 1100 calories fuel value, or about 
40 calories per pound of the child's weight. 

At present the schedule is very similar with the addition of well-cooked 
rice, bacon, asparagus tips, and homemade ice cream. The little girl 
has a great liking for the green vegetables and often says, "More beans, 
more beans, please." She has never had a piece of candy and does not 
get "tastes" from the adult table. The other day she asked for a piece 
of tuna fish and was told that fish was not for little girls but for daddy 
and mother. "All wite, I have fish when I get big," and nothing more 
was said. 

The child has always had her own bed, and has always slept alone 
in a room opening onto the sleeping porch. The door from her room 
to the porch is always left open, and often as she is tucked in at night 
she says, "Fresh air, more fresh air." She takes a nap in the m.iddle 
of the day, directly after her dinner, and goes to bed at seven o'clock. 

From the time this little girl has been able to hold up her head, her 
father has romped with her in the late afternoon before supper time. 
She is not afraid when he picks her up by her feet or tosses her across 
the bed, but says, "More, more. Daddy, do it again." 



1921] TEA 177 

She enjoys the daily bath which is given before the midday meal. 
Her clothing is simple and suited to the southern climate. Rompers 
and overalls are worn during the morning and in the afternoon if the 
type of play calls for them. Another factor in her good health is the 
fact that she has not been turned over to the care of a nurse maid. 

And so for twenty-eight months this little girl has enjoyed perfect 
health. The diet prescribed by her physician has been carefully fol- 
lowed; she has had fresh air, plenty of sleep, the daily bath, and exercise. 
She has never been dragged out to a "movie" nor had her regular habits 
infringed upon to suit some other program, and she has had close super- 
vision of all the details of child life, while her parents have had the 
pleasure of watching her development day by day. 



TEAi 
SUSANNAH USHER 

(Continued) 

INDIA, CEYLON, JAVA, AND SUMATRA TEAS 

The teas of India, Ceylon, Java, and Sumatra may be grouped together 
for several reasons. 

The plants raised in these countries are Assam indigenous or a hybrid 
which is a cross between Assam indigenous and the Chinese varieties. 
Assam indigenous is most generally used. 

They are raised, manufactured by machinery, and packed for ship- 
ment on large plantations owned for the most part by English or Dutch 
stock companies. 

The machine manufacture may insure cleanliness, but it helps to 
produce a tea that has a large amount of tannin and body at the expense 
of mellowness, fine flavor, and good keeping qualities. Some experts 
think that India and Ceylon have not as yet imitated the finest grades 
of China teas, but this opinion is not so generally expressed as it was 
15 or 20 years ago, 

India and Ceylon are studying scientific methods of growth and manu- 
facture, but sufficient knowledge has not been accumulated to make 
tea production an exact science. 

* Copyright, 1921, by the American Home Economics Association. 



178 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

As the methods of manufacture are similar in India, Ceylon, Java, 
and Sumatra the following description will suffice for all of them. 

Plucking. The standard pluck is two leaves and a bud, that is, the 
flowery pekoe or bud, the first leaf or orange pekoe, and the second 
leaf or pekoe. The plucking of more leaves makes a coarser tea. 

Withering. When the plucked leaf is brought in it is spread on large 
trays made of kissan cloth or other material that will allow free access 
of air. These trays are put on racks, and the leaf is withered by means 
of warm air circulated by fans. If the natural method is used the leaf 
is spread thin on withering floors. 

Withering renders the leaves flaccid for rolling, but this is not the 
only change that takes place. According to investigations made for 
the Ceylon companies the leaf, during withering, loses water, and the 
oxidizing enzyme, the soluble matter, and the essential oil increase in 
amount; in consequence the leaf begins to change color, and to have an 
agreeable odor. 

Rolling. The roUing is done by machinery instead of by hand. The 
twist is the most obvious result of the rolling, but various chemical 
changes take place. During the rolling the juice is brought to the 
surface, which facilitates oxidation. Tannin bodies undergo partial 
o.xidation and the essential oil is increased. 

Oxidation or Fermentation. The balls of rolled leaves are broken up 
in a machine made for the purpose, and the separated leaves are spread 
on tables or floors in a cool fermenting room. The oxidation continues 
until the leaf is a bright coppery tint. Various chemical changes take 
place which are not all well understood. Flavor is developed with the 
increase of essential oil, and color and body are developed with the 
oxidation of tannin. If too much tannin is oxidized, the tea has color 
and body at the expense of pungency. 

Firing or Drying. The firing takes place in large machines or ovens 
fitted with trays to contain the tea. The temperature of the machine 
varies during difTerent stages of the operation, the initial temperature 
being highest. Although the main object of firing is to stop feraienta- 
tion and dry the tea, other changes take place which improve the qual- 
ity of the tea. 

The grading is done by sieves and the grades are usually named as 
follows, beginning with the finest: flowery pekoe, orange pekoe, pekoe 
(nos. 1 and 2), and pekoe souchong. The flowery orange pekoe contains 
the smallest, youngest leaves and many yellow tips; the orange pekoe 



19211 TEA 179 

contains the next in size, and so on through the different grades. The 
yellow tips grow less and finally disappear in the coarser qualities. 

As the modern methods of sieving, and cutting the leaf in equalizing 
machines makes it possible for older and younger leaf to get somewhat 
mixed in the above grades, it is not exactly true to say that flowery 
pekoe contains only the buds and small leaves. 

Teas containing yellow tips bring a price out of proportion to their 
real value as they affect the looks of the tea rather than its "cup quali- 
ties." The buds and young leaves give rise to yellow tips, but careful 
manufacture, season, and district all affect the result. 

The different estates all use the same grading, but the same grades 
may vary in quality; for instance, the pekoe from one estate may be 
equal to an orange pekoe from another. The term orange pekoe as 
used on the retail market seems to be simply a trade name for India and 
Ceylon tea containing tips, and is not a definite grade. 

After sorting and grading, the teas are packed for shipment. 

If the tea is packed warm it keeps better as no moisture is present. 

Green Tea Manufacture. In India and Ceylon steam is used to stop 
the action of the oxidizing enzyme, the leaf is then rolled, fired, and 
sorted. The teas are made in imitation of China and Japan styles, but 
the quality does not as yet equal the teas of those countries, although 
Ceylon greens are improving in quality. 

The teas of India and Ceylon are raised on large plantations owned 
and operated by English stock companies. The first English planta- 
tions in India were established about the middle of the last century, 
and in Ceylon somewhat later. The tea industry of India and Ceylon 
has made rapid strides in gaining the markets of the world. To raise 
money for advertising, a tax is levied on every pound of tea exported. 

The northern tea districts of India are in the hills at the foot of the 
lower ranges of the Himalayas, and in the Brahmaputra Valley. The 
southern districts are mainly in Travancore. 

In the northern tea districts the leaf is picked, after a winter resting 
period, from March to November; but in the southern districts where 
the climate is more tropical, the leaf is picked all the year round except 
for a time after the bushes are pruned. 

Unlike the teas of China and Japan the first plucking does not make 
the best tea. According to an Enghsh authority the growth is slower 
toward the end of the season, and the young leaves at this time make 
tea with the finest flavor. Both slowness of growth and high altitude 
conduce to fine flavor. 



180 IHE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

On Indian plantations the bushes are plucked from twelve to twenty 
times during the season. After plucking, the bushes very soon send 
forth new shoots. 

The distinguishing features of India teas (due probably to both climate 
and methods of manufacture) are heavy body, pungency, and depth of 
color, rather than dehcate flavor and aroma. The dry leaf is black or 
grayish black, usually with yellow tips. The flavor is described as 
malty or nutty. Some of the Larjeeling teas have a raisin flavor which 
is highly prized. 

The teas from the various districts have individual characteristics 
known to tea experts, but the retail buyer buys India tea as orange 
pekoe, sometimes by district as Assam or Darjeeling. Darjeeling is 
considered one of India's best teas, as it combines fine flavor with its 
body and pungency. India and Ceylon tea are often blended and sold 
as orange pekoe. 

Another characl eristic of North India teas is their tendency to "cream 
down" or turn thick on standing. This does not mean that the tea is 
poor quality, but on the contrary shows that it has good body and 
pungency. Some authorities think that the amount of tannin bodies 
influence this tendency to turn milky. Such teas are troublesome for 
iced tea, unless the tea is served immediately. 

Ceylon tea is cultivated in the hills and on the plains, the former hav- 
ing the finest flavor. Tea is plucked all the year round, as there is no 
resting period on account of winter or drought. Twenty to thirty 
pluckings are made, but the leaf plucked in August and February has 
the finest flavor. 

Ceylon tea resembles India tea, especially the lighter bodied teas from 
the southern districts. It has a flowery fragrance, which is delightful 
but not lasting. The dry leaf is brownish and wiry, the more expensive 
grades being tippy. As much of the Ceylon tea is not of high grade it 
finds its way as a "filler" in inexpensive blends. Green tea is also manu- 
factured in Ceylon, but large amounts do not come to this market. 

On Java plantations, as in India and Ceylon, machinery is employed 
in the manufacture of tea. The teas are much like Ceylon in character, 
but not so high grade. The largest shipments go to Australia and the 
home country, Holland. During the war Java tea became an impor- 
tant factor in our market. Sumatra is now growing tea similar in qual- 
ity to Java, and exports some to the United States. 

{To be continued) 



EDITORIAL 

The Mid-Winter Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association. The members of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation fortunate enough to attend the meeting held February 28 and 
March 1, in Atlantic City, will remember it as one of the significant 
gatherings in the history of the Association. The attendance was 
larger than usual at the mid-winter meetings, running well over 300 at 
some sessions and including interested visitors from other organizations. 
The program committee is to be congratulated on the success with 
which the main topic of each session was developed by the individual 
speakers, and on the general sense of unity and vigor which pervaded 
all the meetings. 

The opening speech of the president, Mary Sweeny, struck the key- 
note in emphasizing the changed trend of home economics since 1917. 
Then it seemed in a measure "the step-child of agriculture and the sec- 
ond wife of industrial training," but now it is coming to be generally 
recognized as the science and art of rational living. 

The papers presented showed that home economics still bases its 
teaching firmly on the facts of chemistry and physiology, economics and 
sociology, but they showed further that it is not merely using the facts 
to teach school children how to cook and sew, but is bringing them 
directly to the woman in the home and the girl at work in such a way 
that everyday living in the home is in better accord with health, beauty, 
and enjoyment. Moreover, home economics is helping bring down the 
cost of living by showing people how to get the best returns for the 
money they spend on the merchandise used in daily life. It is aiding 
in the health movement by providing school lunches and clinics for 
undernourished children, by teaching personal and household hygiene, 
and by tying up its work with that of the physical training agencies. 
In doing this it is going to psychology for help in methods of approach 
to children and adults, and to applied art in adapting materials and 
designs to clothing and house furnishings. It is getting into touch with 
manufacturers and retailers in the hope of improving standards of 
taste. In short, as was brought out by the discussion at these meetings, 

181 



182 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

home economics is showing itself what its friends have always felt it to 
be, the science of human welfare. 

The Calcium Salts of Heated Milk. To what extent is the calcium 
precipitated out of pasteurized and evaporated milk or milk boiled for 
babies, and is this calcium lost in the bottom of the container? 

Daniels and Loughlin^ found .hat when they brought milk very slowly 
to the boiling point in a do'jble boiler and boiled it for 10 or 45 minutes, 
enough of the calcium was precipitated out as an insoluble salt to cause 
young rats to fail to gain when fed on this milk. ]Milk pasteurized by 
heating it slowly (taking 30 to 45 minutes for the process) to a tem- 
perature of 65° or 82° C, and then holding the temperature there for 40 
minutes would not support growth in the rats. Likewise commercially 
evaporated, unsweetened milk diluted with distilled water failed. Good 
growth was obtained with raw milk, with milk brought quickly to the 
boiling point in an open saucepan and boiled for 1 minute, and with 
undiluted sweetened condensed milk. 

They could correct the calcium deficiency in the slowly boiled, pasteur- 
ized and evaporated milks, by adding to the rats' diet some tri-calcium 
phosphate or the washings from the pasteurizing containers or from the 
can in which the evaporated milk came, and obtain normal growth. 
The salt or washings had to be held in a suspension of starch paste to 
prevent their settling out and not being drunk. The salts were appar- 
ently not precipitated out when the milk was heated quickly and boiled 
for 1 minute; even though they were precipitated out of solution in the 
condensed milk, the thick, pasty consistency of this milk prevented 
their settling out to the bottom. 

That the failure to grow on such diets was not due to a destruction 
of either the fat soluble A or the water soluble B vitamines was demon- 
strated by a lack of improvement when these two vitamines were added 
to the diet in some other form. Rats are not susceptible to scurvy so 
it could not have been due to a destruction of that vitamine. 

How much application these findings have to the diet of the American 
adult, which is already low in calcium, it will be interesting to learn. 
The authors report that an investigation of the relation of these results 
to infant nutrition is now under way. 

' Daniels, A. L., and Loughlin, R., A deficiency in heat treated milks, Jaur. Biol. Chem., 
44, 381 (Nov. 1920). 



1921] OPEN FORUM 183 

THE OPEN FORUM 

What is the Proper Height for the Kitchen Table?— All recent 
discussions of the planning and equipment of kitchens have at least 
touched on the subject of proper height of working surfaces. They 
all agree that this has direct bearing on the ease with which work can be 
done and the comfort or fatigue of the worker, but there is wide variation 
in the suggested heights for table, sink, and other equipment, some 
estimates placing the working surfaces 8| inches higher than is advocated 
by certain other authorities. Some writers also suggest placing table, 
bottom of sink, and ironing board at the same height from the floor, 
while others hold that the various pieces of equipment should be at 
different heights according to the work done on them. 

As ahready noted in the Journal (November, 1920, p. 506) experi- 
ments with the respiration calorimeter in the Office of Home Economics 
of the United States Department of Agriculture show that more energy 
is used when the working surface on which household tasks are done is 
not of comfortable height. If it were possible to measure the rates of 
fatigue under various conditions the results probably would be even 
more striking. 

The workers in the Experimental Kitchen at the Department of Agri- 
culture have paid some attention to height of working surfaces in con- 
nection with the different operations involved in their work; and their 
experience is that the various kinds of kitchen tasks can often be done 
most comfortably and effectively at different heights. Differences in 
length of arm and height of shoulder, as well as total height of body and 
individual methods of working, however, cause so much variation that 
accurate data are needed on which to base standard recommendations. 

Classes in household management would undoubtedly find this an 
interesting problem and might collect data from which could be drawn 
a scale of heights for the main pieces of kitchen equipment. In order 
to make the data comparable, the following tasks are suggested for 
testing the proper height of surfaces: Use of the rolling pin, as in rolling 
pastry or cookies; use of a dover egg beater, or beater of similar type; 
washing dishes in the sink. Each task should be continued until the 
worker becomes fatigued, with adjustment of working surface to at least 
two different heights. Besides finding the most comfortable heights at 
which women of varying statures can perform these tasks, careful measure- 
ments should be made, not only of stature, but also of height from tip of 



184 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

shoulder to floor, and length from tip of shoulder to tip of fingers when 
the arm is extended close to the side; possibly also, length of forearm, 
that is, distance from point of elbow to bend of wrist or to tip of middle 
finger. 

The Office of Home Economics. 

Two practical points are often overlooked in discussing the height 
of kitchen equipment. One is that in many families more than one 
person is at work in the same kitchen. Even when there is no outside 
help, mother and daughter often share the duties. Should there be an 
adjustable table, if persons of quite different heights must work at it 
for any length of time? 

The second one is the question whether the equipment should be 
adjusted for working in a standing position. Should not the house- 
keeper be encouraged to do more of her work sitting down? At first 
this seems impossible to many women, but those of us who have accus- 
tomed ourselves to it know that it can be done and at a large saving of 
energy. Much of our cooking, such as preparation of vegetables, mixing 
of doughs and batters, or preparing meat for the oven; ironing, especially 
when an electric iron is used; even dishwashing — can be done as 
well when one is seated as when one stands. The adjustment then will 
come not so much in table and sink as in chair and stool, and it is compar- 
atively easy to have stools of different heights for the use of different 
people, or for different kinds of work. Cannot some of our home 
economics students work on the problem with these points in mind? 

Alice P. Norton. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



The Story of Milk. By Johan D. Frederik- 
SEN. New York: The Macmillan Com- 
pany, 1919, pp. 186. $1.50. 
The book first presents historical facts 
about milk and its products and milk pro- 
duction as related to the various breeds of 
cows, and discusses methods of increasing 
production. 

The material on composition of milk, 
methods of testing for quality, pasteuriza- 
tion and care of milk on the farm, in transit, 
in the dairy, and in the home is particularly 
interesting. 

The use of pure cultures or starters in 
the manufacture of hard and soft cheese, 
buttermilk, and butter is described, as well 
as the manufacture and use of milk products, 
such as milk sugar, casein, milk powder, 
condensed milk. 

Bovine tuberculosis is discussed, first 
under the head of "Healthy Cows" (pp. 12- 
13), second, "Bovine Tuberculosis" (pp. 
35-36). It is suggested in regard to the 
author's statement (p. 12) "Healthy cows 
alone can be depended upon to produce 
sanitary milk; in many herds of milk cows 
tuberculosis is prevalent and constant vigi- 
lance is necessary to prevent its spread," 
that the closing sentence regarding the tuber- 
culin test by Koch would have been a good 
place to end the paragraph. This question 
of tuberculosis is a serious one and the 
Bureau of Animal Industry, of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, states that many cows, 
because of previous exposure to tuberculosis, 
have this disease. Those animals which 
have been most closely confined under 
poor sanitary conditions, and which have 
been fed for the one purpose of milk pro- 
duction, without regard to the building up 
of the body, are most commonly infected. 
Unless this disease is so far advanced as to 



affect the general health of the cow, or has 
spread to the milk organs, the udder or the 
teats, the milk before being drawn is prob- 
ably not infected. However, when several 
animals are more or less infected, disease 
germs may gain entrance to the milk in the 
vessel from infected premises. It is the 
opinion of practically all authorities, who 
have made investigations along this line, 
that bovine tuberculosis may be trans- 
mitted to human beings, especially children, 
by the use of raw cow's mUk infected with 
the tubercle bacillus. Whenever it is pos- 
sible, the herd should be tested with tuber- 
culin and all animals that give a reaction 
indicating the presence of tuberculosis, 
should be removed. If diseased animals are 
not killed, they should be kept in strict 
quarantine, and the milk, if used for any 
purpose, should be pasteurized. The Bang 
method of isolation has not proved satis- 
factory in the United States except in a very 
few instances and has therefore already been 
largely discarded. 

City delivery is discussed, as well as the 
cost of production, transportation, and sani- 
tary handling in milk plants. It would 
seem advisable to give more space to this 
important problem, which is so little under- 
stood by the general public. 

About 40 pages are devoted to recipes, 
among which are ices and ice cream recipes 
prepared by Professor Mortensen, Dairy 
Department, Iowa State College. These are 
very excellent. The recipe on spinach soup 
speaks of cooking the spinach for 30 minutes 
in 3 cups of water, after which the water is 
drained. We are aware of the fact that this 
method of preparing spinach is in common 
use, but we believe it would be better to 
cook the spinach in a very small quantity of 
water, without soda, and only long enough 

185 



186 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



to make it tender, thus producing a bright 
green product of mild flavor. Steaming 
would be even a better method of prepara- 
tion since there would be practically no loss 
of soluble matter. 

The chapter on the food value of milk is 
very short and somewhat incomplete. 

The student of home economics who is 
unfamiliar with the production and manu- 
facturing aspects of dairy products wi' find 
much of value in this book. 

Jessie M. Hoover. 

Students' Manual of Fashion Drawing. By 
Edith Young, Director of the Edith 
Young Art School, Newark, New Jersey. 
Thirty lessons with conventional charts. 
New York: John Wiley & Sons Inc., pp. 
107. S2.00. 

The book consists of a series of thirty illus- 
trated lessons which uegin by showing how 
to draw the simplest dress form; how to 
draw skirts, waists, tucks, ruflBes, collars, 
sleeves, and trimmings; then follows a group 
of elementary lessons on such topics as fea- 
tures, arms, legs, heads, and the various 
views of the figure; more dress details and 



suggestions for rendering textures; perspec- 
tive and some suggestions and notes on the 
various methods for reproducing drawings. 

In the introduction the author has made 
it clear that the illustrations were not in- 
tended to have any art quality but that they 
are "conventional charts" or diagrams of all 
the details in figure construction and dress 
design which puzzle the young student. The 
book must thus be judged in the light of this 
statement and, for its successful use, nearly 
all the plates must be supplemented in the 
classroom by illustrations which will set 
standards of beauty in line drawings. 

The book is well arranged and well indexed 
so that the desired material is very easily 
found. The text has been adapted to the 
person who has had no previous experience 
in the technique of drawing. It does not 
attempt to t.ach principles of design, but 
shows simple and direct methods of repre- 
sentation, and is intended to be used as a 
guide for the "would-be fashion artist." It 
is a useful reference book for high school and 
college students in the costume design classes. 
Harriet Goldstein, 
University of Minnesota. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT 
Compiled by Eda Lord Murphy and Lois Hill 

BOOKS 

Recipes and Menus 

Institution Recipes. Emma Smedley, 6 East Front Street, Media, Pa. Arranged for 
school lunch rooms. Chapter on equipment and organization for school lunch room which 
would be practical for any institution. 

Recipes and Menus for Fifty. (Revised edition. More Recipes and Menus for Fifty.) 
Frances Lowe Smith. WTiitcomb & Barrows, Boston. 

Manual for Army Cooks. Government Printing OflSce, Washington. Practical rei,ip€s 
for 20-60 men. 

Pastry for the Restaurant. Paul Richards. Hotel Monthly Press, 443 S. Dearborn St., 
Chicago. 

Low Cost Recipes. Edith G. Harbison. George W. Jacobs & Co., Philadelphia. For 
family, but practical for institution. 

Cooking for Profit. Jessup Whitehead. Jessup Whitehead & Co., Chicago. Actual 
carrying out of ideas. Excellent but old. 



1921J BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 187 

How to Ciit Food Costs. Lenna Frances Cooper. The Good Health Publishing Co., Battle 
Creek, Mich. Not many recipes but practical suggestions. 

Kitchen French. Frank D. Parker. The Hotel World, Chicago. 

100 Portion War Time Recipes. Bertha Nettleton. J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia. 
Gives practical economies and excellent recipes for peace time. 

Refrigeration 

The Manufacture of Ice Creams and Ices. J. H. Frandsen and E. A. Markham. Orange 
Judd Co., N. Y. Chaps. 14 and 15 on refrigeration and operation very good. 

Practical Cold Storage. IMadison Cooper. Nickerson & Collins Co., Chicago. The- 
ory, design, and construction of buildings and apparatus for preservation of perishables. 

Cold Storage: Mechanical Refrigeration. Samuel Sydney. The Branch Publishing Co., 
Chicago. 

Refrigeration and Refrigerating Machinery. American Association of Refrigeration Pro- 
ceedings, N. Y., 1910. 

Refrigeration. Milton W. Arrowood. American Technical Society, Chicago. Design 
and operation of cold storage plants. 

Sanitary Refrigeration and Ice Making. John Joseph Cosgrove. Standard Sanitary Mfg. 
Co., Pittsburgh. 

The Cost of Mechanical Refrigeration. A. F. Carlson and T. H. Wright. A thesis kept 
in college library, Ames, Iowa. 

Sanitation 

Principles of Sewage Treatment. William P. Dunbar. C. Griffin & Co., London. 

Disposal of Household Wastes. W. P. Gerhard. D. Van Nostrand Co., N. Y. Includes 
sewage disposal of institutions. 

Discussion of Prevailing Theories and Practices Relating to Sewage Disposal. Wynkoop 
Kiersted. Wiley, N. Y. 

Sewage Disposal. George Warren Fuller. McGraw-Hill Book Co., N. Y. 

Modern Methods of Sewage Disposal. George Edwin Waring. D. Van Nostrand Co., 
N. Y. For towns and public institutions. 

House Drainage and Sanitary Plumbing. W. P. Gerhard. D. Van Nostrand Co., N. Y. 

Municipal Housecleaning. William Parr Capes. E. P. Dutton & Co., N. Y. 

The Economic Disposal of a Town's Refuse. W. Francis Goodrich. J. Wiley and Sons, 
N. Y. 

The Disposal of Municipal Refuse. Harry de Berkeley Parsons. J. Wiley & Sons, 
N. Y. 

Modern Destruction Practice. W. F. Goodrich. Griffin & Co., London. 

Cyclopedia of Heating, Plumbing, and Sanitation. American School of Correspondence, 
Chicago. 

Sanitary Code for City of Chicago (1911). Dept. of Health, Chicago. 

Sanitation of Public Buildings. W. P. Gerhard. J. Wiley & Sons, N. Y. 

Guide to Sanitary Inspections. W. P. Gerhard. J. Wiley & Sons, N. Y. 

Foods and Sanitation. E. H. Forster and Mildred Weigley. Row, Peterson & Co., 
Chicago and N. Y. 

Buying and Management 

The Practical Hotel Steward. John Tellman. The Hotel Monthly, 443 S. Dearborn St., 
Chicago. Ideas on equipment, ordering, and table service for hotel. 

The Hotel Waitress. John Hearshey. H. J. Bohn and Brother, Chicago. Duties, obli- 
gations, rights, and privileges of hotel waitress. 



188 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

The Lunch Room. Paul Richards. The Hotel Monthly, 443 S. Dearborn St., Chicago. 
Plans, equipment, management, accounting, food and quick sales, bills of fare, receipts. 

Guide to Hotel Housekeeping. f^Mnry E. Palmer. The Hotel World, Chicago. 

Successful Restaurant Publicity. Milo E. Westbrooke. Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 

The Human Element in Organization. Frederic Meron. T. Andel & Co., N. Y. (May 
get ideas from factory management.) 

Reducing Selling Costs. P. E. Derrick. Newnes, London. 

The Economic Notebook. National Board of Y. W. C. A., N. Y. 

The School Lunch: Its Organization and Management. Emma Smedley, 6 E. Front St., 
Media, Pa. 

Employment Management. D.'.niel Bloomfield. H. W. Wilson, N. Y. A compilation of 
selected articles by leading authorities on employment management. 

Common Sense and Labor. Samuel Crowther. Doubleday Page & Co., Garden City, N. Y. 
Discussion of labor problems such as labor unrest, industrial democracy, wages, and profit 
sharing plans. 

Personnel Administration. Tead and Metcalf. McGraw-Hill Book Co., N. Y. Principles 
and best prevailing practice in the field of administration of human relations in industry. 

When the Workmen Help You Manage. William Basset. The Centur>' Co., N. Y. A 
consideration of the employer-employee situation today. 

PAMPHLETS 

Instruction in Institution Administration. Teachers College Bulletin, Columbia University. 

Handbook of the Association Cafeteria. National Board Y. W. C. A., N. Y. 

Restaurant Facilities for Shipyard Workers. Frederick S. Crum. The Industrial Rela- 
tions Division, U. S. Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation, Philadelphia. 

Welfare Work for Employees in Industrial Establishments in the United States. Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington. 

Cafeteria Standards and Methods ^of Obtaining These. Nola Treat. University of 
Minnesota. 

PERIODICALS 

American Food Journal, The Patterson Publishing Co., 25 East 26th St., N. Y. $3.00. 

The Caterer, 1495 Broadway, N. Y. 

Chicago Packer (weekly newspaper), 536 Walnut St., Kansas City, Mo. S.?.00. 

Dry Goods Economist, 239 W. 39th St., New York City. Weekly $6.00, monthly $1.75 

Dry Goods Merchants Trade Journal, Des Moines, Iowa. $3.00. 

Grocer's Magazine, 88 Broad St., Boston, Mass. $1.50. 

Hotel Bulletin, Ben P. Branham Printing Co., 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago. $3.00. 

Hotel Gazette, John Martin, 1400 Broadway, New York City. $2.00. 

Hotel Monthly, John Willy, 443 S. Dearborn St., Chicago. $2.00. 

Hotel World, 440 S. Dearborn St., Chicago, El. $4.00. 

Journal of American Medical Association, 535 North Dearborn St., Chicago. $5.00. 

Journal of Home Economics, 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. $2.50. 

The Modern Hospital, 24 E. Ontario St., Chicago. $3.00. 

The Stexard, 107-9 West 38th St., N. Y. 

Tea and Coffee Trade Journal, 79 Wall St., New York City. $3.00. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



University of Wisconsin Summer 
Courses. The great need for trained wo- 
men to go into the extension field in home 
economics is shown by the fact that there 
are now over fifty-two positions to be filled 
in the northern and western districts; and 
the need will be greater in July. Experi- 
enced teachers who have first-hand knowl- 
edge of rural conditions may take a six 
weeks summer course at the University of 
Wisconsin where special courses are given 
in subject matter, methods of presentation, 
and training in community needs and com- 
munity leadership. 

The Department of Sociology is offering 
special county field work which may be taken 
at the same time as part of the general train- 
ing, or courses in poultry and horticulture 
may be elected as part of the training. 

Dr. Dorothy Reed Mendenhall is giving 
two courses on the family: first, the mother 
and child, and, second, the care and feeding 
of the older child. These are especially 
designed for the experienced teacher and for 
the prospective home demonstration agent 
and nutrition specialist who wish to learn 
the latest data and methods of presentation 
in feeding clinic work. 

Public health nurses will find these two 
courses very helpful in their county work. 
Dr. Mendenhall needs no introduction to 
the home economics speciaUst or the child 
welfare nurse because of her wade experience 
in extension work, her connection with the 
work of the Children's Bureau, and her writ- 
ings on the subject of child hygiene and child 
feeding. 

Course in Homemaking Adjustments in 
Social Work. The Committee on Home 
Economics of the New York Charity Organi- 
zation Society offers, for the third year, its 



course in Homemaking Adjustments in So- 
cial Work, beginning Monday, June 6, and 
ending Friday, July 1, 1921. This course 
is open to a limited group of women with 
home economics training, who wish to ob- 
serve methods used in various types of social 
work and receive practical experience in 
social case work. 

For further information address Miss 
Emma A. Winslow, Director of June Course, 
Charity Organization Society, 105 East 22nd 
Street, New York City. 

University of Chicago Fellowships. 

The two fellowships in the home economics 
department, which have been offered by the 
University of Chicago for the past two years, 
are again available for 1921-1922. Each one 
carries $300 and tuition. They are awarded 
to the candidates who have had the best 
training and experience and who show the 
greatest promise of ability to do advanced 
work, including research in any line of home 
economics. The courses taken at the Uni- 
versity by the successful candidates will be 
directed toward the Master's and Doctor's 
degrees. Applications with letters of recom- 
mendation should be received by the Chair- 
man of the Department of Home Economics 
before June 15. 

Fellowships in Social-Economic Re- 
search. Three fellowships carrj'ing a sti- 
pend of $500 each are offered by the Women's 
Educational and Industrial Union to women 
who wish thorough preparation for work in 
social-economic research. 

Application must be filed before May first. 
For further information and application 
blanks, address Department of Research, 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union, 
264 Boylston Street, Boston 17, Mass. 

189 



190 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



New York Nutrition Council. The 
New York Nutrition Council has been formed 
recently for the purpose of providing a means 
of exchanging information concerning meth- 
ods of conducting various types of nutri- 
tional activities. Mrs. Mary S. Rose of 
Teachers College has been elected chairman 
of the Council, and Emma A. Winslow of 
the Charity Organization Society has been 
made secretarj'. The organizing coi.imit- 
tee consisted of Mrs. Amy D. Slorer of the 
.Atlantic Division of the American Red 
Cross, Mary Arnold of the Babies' Welfare 
Association, Lucy H. Gillett of the A. I. C. 
P., and George R. Bedinger of the New 
York County Chapter of the American Red 
Cross. 

Membership is limited to representatives 
of organizations which carry on nutritional 
acti\aties as part of their program. Bi- 
weekly meetings are held with the responsi- 
bility for arrangement assumed by the 
representatives. 

The fall meetings were held under the aus- 
pices of the Morningside Nutrition and 
Homemaking Center, the Bureau of Educa- 
tional Experiments, the Atlantic Division 
of the American Red Cross, Teachers Col- 
lege, and the Pediatric Section of the New 
York Academy of Medicine cooperating with 
the Babies' Welfare Association. 

Sally Lucas Jean of the Child Health 
Organization arranged a program on Health 
Education in the Elementary Schools for 
the January meeting. Nutrition Classes in 
Out-Patient Departments of Hospitals was 
the subject for the program on February 
seventh, arranged by Dr. Charles Hendee 
Smith of Bellevue Hospital. Grace Scher- 
merhom of the New York City Department 
of Education was chairman of a meeting to 
discuss school lunch problems, and Bailey 
B. Burritt, Director of the A. I. C. P., is plan- 
ning for a meeting to discuss ways of meet- 
ing the racial nutritional problem. Pro- 
grams for later meetings will be in charge of 
Dr. ^L Alice Asserson of the New York 
Tuberculosis Association and George R. 
Bedinger of the New York County Chapter 
of the American Red Cross. The final meet- 



ing of the year is to be a "review meeting," 
when reports will be made by various com- 
mittees appointed to summarize the con- 
clusions reached in previous discussions. 

The New England Home Economics 
Association opened the new year with a 
meeting on January 8. The hall was filled 
with attentive listeners, showing that the 
subject. The Problem of Feeding College 
Men and Women, awakens interest. 

Delegates were present from nearly every 
New England college and many normal 
schools, representing both the scientific and 
the technical departments. 

Mrs. \\Tiiton, who buys all the food mate- 
rials for Wellesley College, paid high honor 
to the cooks who by their loyalty and skill 
made satisfaction possible during these years 
of "high jum.ps" in prices. The distribution 
of the raw materials among eighteen different 
houses complicates her problem. Twice a 
week she interviews every house director, 
while between times the telephone is kept 
busy. For success, she stated certain general 
principles: Give orders early so that market- 
men may have a fair chance to fill your order 
acceptably. Let the quality be the best; 
this does not always mean "fancy." When 
prices are prohibitive, change the cuts of 
meat or brands of goods but not the grade. 

]\Iiss Baker, of Columbia University, gave 
to the dietitian wonderful opportunities. 
In schools she should consider herself re- 
sponsible for the health of the students and 
so for their success in study; in hospitals, 
her department must not only prove pre- 
ventive and corrective of disease but a 
second aid in surgery. 

The dietitian should stand on the same 
plane with the surgeon and the doctor, and 
the kitchen should be as well equipped as 
the medical and surgical departments. A 
dietitian should keep in close touch with 
chemists, health officers, social workers, and 
nurses. 

Miss Baker's successful experience in feed- 
ing five thousand persons a day, from kinder- 
garten age up through college faculty, made 
forcible many practical suggestions. A few 



1921] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



191 



only can be given here. The commons are 
both popular and self-supporting. Make 
the first and last impression — soup and des- 
sert — above reproach. Watch the plate 
returns for their educational value. With 
student helpers for short periods, twenty-five 
per cent in the cost of service can often be 
saved by the cafeteria plan, over a regular 
meal menu. The cafeteria is more popular 
because the patrons can choose the meal 
from sight and usually therefore waste less 
in both money and food. Children are 
served at the rate of eight to ten and grown 
ups from four to six per minute. Menus 
should be made out for 6 to 8 days, or in 
multiples of these, so that repetitions of the 
same foods on definite days may be avoided. 

Miss Goodrich, of Simmons College, ap- 
pealed for more research work in the analysis 
of foods in regard to costs; for more research 
in actual cost of the edible portion of the 
principal articles of food; and for the 
standardization of per capita costs so that all 
quotations shall include the same items and 
therefore make possible accurate compari- 
sons. A few such analyses have been made 
in her department with results of definite 
value. 

Discussions, led by Miss Churchill, Presi- 
dent of the Women's Educational and Indus- 
trial Union, brought out the representative 
character of the audience as well as the scope 
of the subject. Miss Pierce, representing 
Princeton; M. Vickers, Executive Secretary 
of New Hampshire State College, and Pro- 
fessor Mitchell, of Brown University, were 
among the helpful contributors. 

The follo\\dng were a few of the many 
topics presented: 

What should be the relation of the pur- 
chasing agent? Should the person respon- 
sible for the preparation do the purchasing 
of the food? Should such an agent supervise 
the menus? Most directors felt that they 
should also do the purchasing as a matter 
of efficiency. 

Whether men or women make the best 
cooks brought out widely different experi- 
ences. The consensus of opinion seemed 
to be that a supervisor who could — and 



would — give training had good results from 
either. 

Princeton uses all student help directed by 
students. Miss Pierce believes that attend- 
ance at college commons should be com- 
pulsory for the first two years, in order to 
make the commons financially successful. 

What is done for students who are unable 
to eat the food served? Many give a 
glass of milk if desired, but allow no other 
change in the meal served. Some serve spe- 
cially desired articles of food to any one 
table. This has resulted in "Queer Din- 
ners" given one night a week. 

Professor Mitchell came with definite 
questions relating to the problems of estab- 
lishing and carrying on commons. He found 
that these were, in general, answered, and he 
left with the declared conviction that there 
should be "a trained woman in charge of 
college dining halls." 

This meeting proved so helpful that at its 
close the request was made that more atten- 
tion be given to the subject of Institutional 
Management in the program of the New 
England Home Economics Association. 

Ceramic Research. The National Re- 
search Council and the American Ceramic 
Society have established a joint committee 
to promote the investigation of scientific 
problems along the lines of ceramic industry 
and particularly by founding a series of re- 
search fellowships whose holders shall devote 
their attention exclusively to this problem. 
According to statements given out by the 
Council, the "ceramic industries, including 
brick and tile making, and general crockery 
and glass manufacture as well as ornamental 
potteries, although among the earliest ones 
developed by man, have been the last of 
our great manufacturing industries to reach 
the state of an applied science. They have 
been based for centuries on rule-of-thumb 
methods, trade secrets, and individual artis- 
try. As far as their artistic features go 
science can do little or nothing for them, but 
in all other ways it can be of great advantage 
to them." 



192 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



Height-Weight Standards. A confer- 
ence of seven organizations was recently 
called by Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Chairman of 
the Child Health Organization of America, 
to consider the possibility of adopting a uni- 
form table of weight for height and age, 
acceptable to all. Among the organizations 
invited to the meeting were: American Child 
Hygiene Association, Child Health Or'^ani- 
zation, Federal Bureau of Education, Fed- 
eral Children's Bureau, McComutk Memo- 
rial Fund, and Public Health Service. 

It was found that there was substantial 
agreement between the various tables now 
in use, the difference being chiefly a matter 
of presentation or statement. 

A committee was appointed to draft a 
table embod>'ing the suggestions made, to 
be presented at a subsequent meeting before 
its final adoption and publication. 

A Post Graduate Child Hygiene 
Course was opened last November at the 
State Normal School, Trenton, New Jersey, 
in cooperation with the Bureau of Child 
Hygiene, State Department of Health. 

Training is given in the fundamentals of 
pediatrics and applied hygiene in social case 
work and in the many phases of public health 
work with which the child hygiene nurses 
come in contact. 

The course is now in successful operation 
with an attendance of fifty-six nurses. 

The home economics students at Eastern 
Kentucky State Normal School organized 
a Home Economics Club early last fall. 
The Club meets twice each month on Thurs- 
day evening for a program followed by a 
social hour. The Club is now working to- 
ward establishing a club-room which the 
home economics students may use for read- 
ing and resting, as well as for social gather- 
ings and club meetings. 

On December third, Home Economics 
Day, the Club gave a play — "Princess 



Pieta and Prince Caloric" — from which 
$11.90 was made above e.xpenses. To this 
they added from the treasury enough to 
send a contribution of $14.00 to the Ellen 
H. Richards Memorial Fund. 

A Home Economics Club of twenty mem- 
bers was organized in the Schenectady High 
School, last September, for the purpose of 
promoting interest in the study of home 
economics and social fellowship between 
members of the club. 

Dorothy Grant, Clara Laubengayer, and 
Edith Sarver are honorary members. The 
officers elected for the first term were: presi- 
dent, Margaret McKeon; vice-president, 
Beatrice Steers; treasurer, Ivema Hill; and 
secretary, Erma Schmidt. 

The United States Civil Service Com- 
mission announces open competitive exami- 
nations for scientific assistants on April 13 
and 14. and for matrons in the Indian 
Service on April 13, May 25, and July 6. 
Applications for positions as dietitians will be 
received up to June 30, and will be rated 
wnthout examination. 

The next meeting of the Western Arts 
Association will be held in Peoria, Illinois 
May 3 to 6, inclusive. This association 
was formerly the Western Drawing and 
Manual Training Association, and all those 
interested in art, manual training, home 
economics, and vocational education are 
eligible to membership. The membership 
fee is $2.00. The present officers are: 
President, Ruth Raymond, Head of the 
Department of Art Education, University 
of Minnesota; Secretary-Treasurer, Mr. L. 
R. Abbott, Director, Department of Man- 
ual Training and Industrial Education, 
Grand Rapids, Michigan. For further in- 
formation, address the Secretary, 234 N. 
Division Ave., Grand Rapids, Michigan. 



The Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association 
will be held at the New Ocean House, Swampscott, Mass., June 27 to 30. Further 
announcement will appear in the May Journal. 



V^OL. XIII, No. 5 May, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemakinft, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Ruth Van Deman, Acting Editor • Keturah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Lamoworthy Amy Daniels Rdth Wheeler Katharine Fisdek 

Ex-Officio Members — Mary E. Sweeny, President American Home Economics Association 
NoLA Treat, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton, Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, Chairman Extension Educational Section 
Lillian Peek, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Orticers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Adult Woman's Challenge to the Home Economics Teacher 

Mrs. Flora Ilarlley Greene 193 

Observations on Diet in Labrador Vivia B. Applelon, M.D. 199 

Stunts of Home Economics Workers . Winifred Sliiarl Gibbs 204 

Relation of Roys' and Girls' Club Work to the Rural Home and Community 

Gertrude Warren 207 
Problems of the Dietitian in the Care of Out-Patlent Poor Suffering from Diseases 

of Metabolism Max Kahn, M.D. 213 

Classicist and Romanticist 217 

For the Homemaker 

The Responsibility of the Consumer for Food Standards and Prices 

Agnes Fay Morgan 219 

A Revival of Household Spinnln'g Margaret Williamson 225 

A Simple Hant) Loom 227 

The Responsibilities of the Homemaker Mildred Weigley 227 

Editorial 229 

The Question Box 233 

Books and Literature 235 

News from the Field 239 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics .Association 
S2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registereo letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of charge in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The JotniNAL op Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston: 
A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company. Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



JOURNAL OP SOME ECOSOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 

r 




mm 




m 



ss: 



L£i- 




THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 

Your biscuits, rolls, gems and other dainty 
bread-stuffs can be no better than the bak- 
ing powder with which they are made. 
Good baking powder is the leavening agent 
that makes them light and digestible. It is 
the keystone in the making of appetizing, 
wholesome cake, biscuits, muffins, etc. 

0{ course, you want only the best of bak- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when you use 

ROYAL 

Baking Powder 



Made from 

Cream of Tartar 

derived from 

Grapes 

CONTAINS 

NO 

ALUM 



■•-*r^l 



S,S,f3!^-^^rf^r:}^i^- 




In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 



Vol. Xni MAY, 1921 No. 5 



THE ADULT WOMAN'S CHALLENGE TO THE HOME 
ECONOMICS TEACHERi 

MRS. FLORA HARTLEY GREENE 

Home economics is the science and art of bearing, training, housing, 
clothing, and feeding the human race, in so far as these activities are 
confined to the family and to the home. I give this definition in order 
that we may have common ground for interpreting the words home 
economics. The goal of home economics, as I see it, may be expressed 
in the following: The nation that twenty years from now has the most 
citizens with eflScient bodies and trained minds will lead the world. 

Through the entire period of childhood from prenatal life to the end 
of adolescence, the home and all that pertains to it, are the great fac- 
tors in the life of the child. On them his chances for health, efficiency, 
and happiness in any and all of his relations in life chiefly depend. The 
citizens of a nation are the product of the homes of that country; the 
home is limited by the intelligence of the homemaker. Education for 
the homemaker is, therefore, the very foundation of all sound national 
life. The mother, as a rule, is the dominant influence in the child's 
life, and every resource of education should be at her command in a 
task of such momentous importance. 

The bearing, training, clothing, and feeding of these citizens is the 
life work of women, and to furnish the science and the skill necessary for 
these activities is the task of home economics teachers. Collecting the 
facts of home economics that are the products of the race, sifting these 
facts from much undesirable matter, and presenting them in a form in 

* Presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics Association held in con- 
nection with the Division of Superintendence, N. E. A., Atlantic City, February, 1921. 

193 



194 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

which they can and will be utilized by the women of America, has been, 
and is today, the special work of women trained in home economics. 

You have been scouts in the colonial sense of the word, making new 
trails through the wilderness of accumulated family precedent, heir- 
looms of ancient custom, inheritance of ancestral sayings and facts, 
most of which will not bear the test of truth. It has been no small 
task, and we are not yet out of the woods. Many trails made by you 
have proved to be well made, and great good has been accomplished by 
you. Your impress has been delinitely stamped on the food of this 
country already, and better physical specimens must without question 
be the result of this work of yours. 

But I have wondered why you do not turn out more rosy, robust, 
energetic university girls. The girl who is thin and bloodless, with 
gray, pimpled skin, so characteristic of lack of proper nutrition and 
personal hygiene, is seen too often in the ranks of the college graduate. 
Make your teaci.ing a personal, practical experience with your home 
economics graduates, and live up to your possibilities and make your 
influence felt throughout your college. A girl who has lived her home 
economics for the four years of her college life will not so quickly drop 
into mother's way of doing things when she goes back home. 

You have done much along the line of more sane dress for women, 
but the apparel of the present generation is not based on sound financial, 
artistic, moral, or hygienic principles, and much more teaching must be 
done before this problem is solved. 

WTiile you have accomplished much with the people whom you have 
touched, you have as yet reached only one female in two thousand 
through all your college, school, and extension work and vocational 
training. And this work, you must recognize, has been for the most 
part in food and clothing. Without doubt these are two essentials 
that can best be taught in groups. 

The fact that only 33 to 35 per cent of the girls in high schools elect 
home economics courses, when such courses are elective rather than 
compulsory, shows that, in general, home economics has not met the 
needs of the girls or that it is not their strong interest at that time. 

You have been trying to teach more than just food and clothing to 
your high school and college girls. You are trying now to teach some- 
thing on child care and nutrition, infant feeding and culture, but as a 
rule you have not found this girl wildly excited over baby foods or 
deeply stirred about malnutrition of school children. Her interest in 



1921] CHALLENGE TO THE HOME ECONOMICS TEACHER 195 

it is not vital ; it is not a real problem to her. When she is married and 
has a baby of her own or knows that one is soon to be hers, the case is 
different; then her interest rises to fever heat. That is the time to 
teach her; that is the time when she wiU really learn. What she learns 
today on infant feeding will probably be passe when she has a baby to 
feed, so rapidly is the knowledge on this subject developing. A great 
mistake made by educators is that they collect their data in regard to 
care, feeding, and culture of defective children, all of which points 
unerringly to the "ignorance of mothers," and they say, "therefore we 
will educate the school girl in home economics." The logical deduction 
is that the adult woman must be educated. 

We must acquire a new conception of education. Home economics 
education must be a continuous process for aU people. There should 
be no commencements. Educational facilities must be so arranged that 
it is possible for the adult woman of all stations in life to procure, at the 
time when she needs it, the training and information that wiU enable 
her properly to care for and train her children. It is the adult woman 
who must be educated in home economics in the broad sense in which 
I use the term, if we are ever to remedy our wrong ideals and wrong 
results, both physical and spiritual. As I see it, this is the challenge of 
the adult woman to the home economics teacher. We adult women 
need this education; we cannot now obtain it, and never have been 
able to obtain it, in a way in which we can assimilate it. 

Isolated lectures and government bulletins will not solve this problem. 
The nearest approach to this adult school is the baby center, or clinic, 
in the crowded districts of our large cities. They are only a drop in the 
bucket and are didactic preachments for the most part, rather than the 
education of the mother in the scientific principles and practice involved. 
They reach only the mothers of the lower strata, and the mothers of the 
upper strata need it just as badly. Moreover, we need more than 
baby feeding. We need education on all things that go to make an 
ideal American home filled with children who will grow into adult 
citizens with efficient bodies and trained minds. We challenge the 
home economics teachers to find the trail and lead us to it. We need 
training schools and information bureaus where the adult woman can 
find answers to such problems as these: nutrition, child psychology, 
amusement of children, moral standards, obedience, and courtesy. 
We need, not didactic lectures which say do this or do that, but teach- 
ing that gives a comprehensive knowledge of the basic facts of chemis- 



196 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May- 

try, physiology, human nutrition, and preventive medicine. A con- 
tinuation school for educating and training adult women could do this. 

I know you think we adult women are conceited, ignorant, unmanag- 
able, not willing to leam. I have found American women in overwhelm- 
ing majority quite different; they are willing, teachable, ignorant, yes, 
of the great field of scientific fact on which the science of home econom- 
ics is based, but anxious, oh, so anxious, to know how to meet their 
problems, both physical and spiritual. 

The average mother needs a definite, clear-cut knowledge of the bio- 
logical capital of the individual and of the race, and here the family 
inheritance, both physical and educational, is often very bad. Take 
the one question of the origin of life. The average woman knows noth- 
ing of ovulation. Babies come by chance, or God sends them; one 
needs no further proof of this condition than the widespread effort at 
legal birth control. If a woman knows nothing of ovulation, it follows 
that she knows nothing of the external influences that affect the germ 
cells. The actual effect of alcohol on the germ cell is a sealed book to 
the average adult woman. Venereal disease and its blasting influence on 
the germ cells, its destruction of the eyes of the newborn, is a thing that 
some doctors know and take measures to remedy, but it is not the valued 
possession of the adult woman. 

The average adult woman cannot answer the simplest questions of 
her young child on the origin of life, and she does not possess a vocabu- 
lary free from the taint of vulgarity with which to discuss with the 
child these vital problems. The adolescent child, with his strongly 
developed sensuous impulses and poorly developed judgment and will, 
is out of her reach because she has little knowledge of his physiology or 
psychology. 

The tiny boy that asks his mother where baby sister came from, has a 
right to an intelligent answer. How many of them ever get it? And 
yet at that moment there is the possibility of establishing a relationship 
of truth and confidence which would enable the mother to guide the 
small lad past the thousand dangers that will beset him during adoles- 
cence. May I give you an iUustration of how it can be done? 

This child had spent his early life in town and knew little of animal 
life. He did know that chickens came out of eggs. One day when 
he was five years old, he was walking with his mother over a mountain 
trail and they came upon the shell of a robin's egg. She remarked to 
him, "A baby robin came out of that shell." He studied the shell a 



1921] CHALLENGE TO THE HOME ECONOMICS TEACHER 197 

moment and then said, "Do all birds come out of eggs?" "Yes," was 
the reply. A moment's silence, and then he said, "Do all animals come 
out of eggs?" "Yes," she answered. "Did I come out of an egg, 
mother?" "Yes," came the reply, wonderingly. "Mother, where 
was that egg?" "Inside my breast, laddie, close to my heart where I 
could keep it safe and warm." "Did you know, mother, when I was in 
the egg?" "Yes, son, I knew." He laughed a happy little laugh and 
continued anxiously, "Were you glad, mother?" "Yes mother, was 
very, very glad." 

As this child grew up this mother answered truthfully always the 
questions asked. Sometimes the questions were most far-reaching in 
the possibilities of the answer, and then the mother said, "That question 
can wait. You do not need to know now since you would not under- 
stand, but as you grow older mother will tell you." There came a 
time when the question was, "Mother, how does life get into the tiny 
egg?" This was the mother's chance to tell her child that the germ 
plasma in his body was a direct gift from God, a tiny bit of immortal 
human life given to him through his parents and to be passed on by him 
to his own children. This was her opportunity to make that child 
feel himself a co-worker with God in the possibility of his power of the 
creation of human life, to make him realize that in these tiny immortal 
cells was wrapped up all the love, the hope, the inspiration, and the 
struggles of countless ancestors of his, and that it was in his power to 
destroy or perfect this heritage of the ages. 

We have all been much concerned about the moral welfare of our 
young men and young women as influenced by a world war. It is well 
that we should be so concerned. I think sometimes that ignorance of 
mothers is at the bottom of much of our trouble that comes from social 
immorality. We have not known how to present the great fact of 
origin of life and immortality of the germ cell to our children. Wlien 
it comes to matters of sex, we have said "don't" to our daughters and 
kept silent with our sons. When our children have chosen mates, we 
have asked what is the social standing or the bank account of the chosen 
one, when we should have asked, Is the germ cell of this person and his 
family free from taint of alcohol, insanity, or venereal disease? This is 
the ideal to be upheld in our home. We must teach our children the 
facts of life and hold always before them the highest physical and spirit- 
ual ideals. 

The home economics extension work, with the pig club, the canning 
club, the shirtwaist club, has been of great help to the adult rural woman 



198 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

in the solution of social and educational problems. The town and 
the city woman needs similar help. 

The places are rare where a mother can go and get reliable, exact 
information on a problem of character building in her child. Where has 
her education been a failure, that she is not able to share the joys and 
pleasures of her children? Who shall teach her that she has failed in 
making an ideal American hom° if her children are not content at home, 
and are not willing to find their amusements in her home but must go 
to the "movie" or to a dance away from home for satisfactory enter- 
tainment? 

I have elaborated only one of the many subjects in which the adult 
woman and the home need you. You can outline the problems of 
nutrition, clothing, child training, housing, home sanitation, home 
nursing, amusements, and so forth. 

To teach all that the adult woman needs would require a university 
faculty, you exckim. I agree with you, and I do not urge that you 
be experts in psychology, sanitation, chemistry, biology, preventive 
medicine, and a dozen others vital to the education of an adult woman; 
but I do urge that you select from the faculties with which you are 
connected such courses or parts of courses as shaU give the adult woman 
what she needs to meet her daily problems of bearing, training, feeding, 
and clothing the children of the race, and make it possible for the adult 
women of your state to avail themselves of this priceless opportunity. 
We can learn to use microscopes and charts. We can be taught calories 
and chromosomes, proteins and prophylaxis. Many national and state 
associations await your call with trained workers and lantern slides and 
fikns to help you. 

The Red Cross is ready with nurses to carry some of these lessons 
into the home. The American Medical Association has long been at 
our command with much that we need in this work. The National 
Hygiene Association is anxious and willing to give its most vital infor- 
mation. The United States Health authorities are trying to give 
needed help. Can you not coordinate all these for us and find a way to 
carry the message to the adult woman? 

As a representative of the two million and more club women of the 
United States, as a member of the Association of Collegiate Alumnae, 
and as a member of your own Council, I beg of you to see this great 
opportunity to give to the world the greatest possible educational 
advice. The Fess Bill, if it is passed, will furnish the finance; you must 
furnish the brains, the plan, and the tea«hers. 



1921] DIET IN LABRADOR 199 

OBSERVATIONS ON DIET IN LABRADOR^ 

VrVIA B. APPLETON, M.D. 
Instructor in Pediatrics, University of California 

The character of the food supply in Labrador along the Straits of 
Belle Isle offers an excellent opportunity for observing the effects of a 
simplified cereal-meat diet on a large group of people for a considerable 
period of time under fairly constant conditions. Stefansson and other 
arctic explorers have described the camiverous diet of people in polar 
regions. A great deal of experimental work has been conducted to 
ascertain the effects of simplified diets on the development and health 
of animals. Very little consideration, however, has been given the 
clinical evidence offered in this region where people live on a diet very 
low in vitamines and where deficiency diseases occur not uncommonly. 
The following observations were made during the winter, spring, ajlid 
early summer of 1919-1920 to determine the exact nature of the diet 
in this region and the incidence of diseases supposed to be of nutritional 
origin. 

DIETARY 

Conditions remain fairly constant because food supplies are ordered 
in the fall to last until the following summer, or even for the entire year. 
Anything that has not been procured before navigation closes in Decem- 
ber cannot be had before the ice breaks up again in June. One winter 
mail comes via Quebec, but it requires three months by dog team, and 
parcels are not accepted. Small surplus supplies are kept in little stores 
along the "coast," but these change the amount consumed rather than 
the kind of food. In 1919-1920, navigation closed December eighth 
and did not reopen until June. The first mail steamer arrived May 
thirtieth, but very little freight was brought before the end of June. 

White Flour. Bread made of white flour is the chief article of diet. 
One and a quarter to one and a half barrels of flour are consumed per 
person per year. Whole wheat flour would be much more wholesome in 
such a restricted diet, but the people do not like it. When ill and given 
whole wheat flour, patients take it as they would any other medicine, 
but they never buy it for themselves. Probably no other group of 

' Investigation conducted on a fund provided by the Bureau of Social Education of the 
National Board of the Y. W. C. A., and by courtesy of the Grenfell Association. 



200 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

people so successfully avoided eating war bread. To be sure, extra 
cereals were required to be bought with a given quantity of white flour, 
but these cereals were often used as dog food. This was not from any 
lack of patriotism, for men enlisted courageously, but bread is veritably 
their staff of life and they prefer it white. They come dangerously near 
trying to "live by bread alone." Everywhere we found good bread, 
whether made with hops or dry yeast cakes. 

Meat a7id Fish. An average family of eight persons has one or two 
barrels of salt meat, either pork or beef, two to four quintals of salt fish, 
and one to three barrels of salt herring. Game is the only fresh meat 
eaten. Formerly it was plentiful, but of late years it has been very 
scarce. No rabbits were shot last winter and only one deer within a 
distance of two hundred miles. Partridges (ruffed grouse) were some- 
what more common throughout the winter and water fowls of various 
sorts were plentiful in the fall and late spring. Trout are caught through 
ice holes in the brooks as early as May. The cod comes late in June and 
sahnon soon after, and then the fishing season continues until November, 
so there is a plentiful supply of fresh fish throughout the summer and 
autumm. Seal meat is abundant during the first half of June. It comes 
as a very welcome food when supplies are scarce, but many persons who 
have not eaten meat for a long time have been made very ill by seal 
meat, probably from too sudden increase in protein. One man was 
seen in collapse, almost pulseless and with a temperature so low that it 
would not register. He recovered rapidly however, within twenty-four 
hours. Meats are usually stewed, often with a dumpling sort of "pud- 
ding" to take the place of vegetables. 

Molasses. Molasses is used commonly in place of sugar. Most 
families have a small supply of sugar for guests, but ordinarily they use 
molasses instead. Twenty gallons of molasses per person per year is a 
usual supply. It is not the best molasses. 

Vegetables. The more prosperous families have from one to two 
barrels of potatoes and one or two barrels of turnips (rutabagas). When 
gardens have been successful the supply of potatoes may be larger. A 
sack of onions is provided in a few cases but is not usual. Rice is not 
used generally, but a few families had from twenty to twenty-five 
pounds. Dried peas are eaten almost universally once or twice a week 
as long as the supply lasts, the usual quantity being twenty to forty 
gallons per family. Some families have also a smaller quantity of dried 
beans. The years when gardens have been successful the cabbage may 



1921] DIET IN LABRADOR 201 

last until nearly December. Dock (Rumex sp.) and Alexander plant 
{Smyrnium olusalnmi) can be used as greens as early as June, but they 
are very little eaten. Dock is plentiful. It has a lance-shaped leaf of 
pinkish hue when young and tastes very like spinach when cooked. 
Alexander plant has a flavor resembling that of parsley when freshly 
picked. We found both very palatable, but our patients ate them only 
when convinced how wholesome they are. 

Fruit. Small quantities of canned fruit are provided for guests or 
fetes but can scarcely be counted as an essential part of the diet. Nearly 
every family has ten or twenty pounds of raisins, which are used chiefly 
in buns or in boiled pudding served with meat and gravy. A few pounds 
of dried apricots or dried apples are commonly provided and eaten as 
jam. Occasionally a family has figs or prunes. About the only fresh 
fruit eaten is the berries which grow nearly everywhere. Those eaten 
most commonly are partridge berries {Mitchella repens) and another 
berry, unknown in our climate, called bake apple {Ruhus chamaemorus) . 
Sometimes they are preserved by cooking, without sugar, but usually 
they are placed fresh in a jar or barrel and cooked just before eaten, or 
are used fresh as a filling for cakes as a special treat. As berries were 
scarce last year, most families had only three or four gallons, while 
others had as much as eighteen or twenty. In regions where berries 
are plentiful one and a half or two barrels are looked upon as a proper 
supply for a large family. 

Butter Substitute. Cow's butter was not used except by the very 
few families who have cows. The fact that it costs fifty per cent more 
than the butter substitute which is universally used makes it prohibitive. 
Twenty pounds of butter substitute per person is considered an ample 
supply for a year. The poorer families sometimes have as little as ten 
pounds per person or even less. 

Milk. Condensed and evaporated milk are both used, the sweetened 
condensed being the most popular. Powdered milk is very rarely bought. 
Two cases of milk are considered a generous supply for a family for a 
year. The poor get only a can at a time and may have only a dozen 
cans during the winter. Thirteen cows and three goats were the only 
source for fresh milk for a scattered population of nearly eighteen hun- 
dred inhabitants. Cattle are fed so little and such poor hay that they 
give little or no milk in winter. Fresh milk is therefore a luxury and a 
rare treat even for the sick. The same may be said of eggs. A few 
people have fowls, but they lay only in summer. Both chickens and 



202 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

COWS have to be guarded very carefully to keep the dogs from killing 
them. This danger, together with difhculty in procuring hay and grain, 
and ignorance as to how to make them productive, have kept the fisher- 
men from having cows and chickens. No eggs are imported. Egg 
powder is used sparingly in making cakes. Fresh milk is always scalded 
immediately to facilitate the rising of the cream. Practically all the 
cream is used for making butter, and only skim milk is employed for 
other purposes. 

Tea. Every family has from twenty to forty pounds of tea per year. 
It is the universal beverage, and two or three cups are taken at every 
meal by young and old. Tea is usually boiled and is very strong. Five 
or six meals may be served a day, but bread and butter and tea sweetened 
with molasses are the basis of each, and often this is all. Meat is eaten 
usually only once or twice a week, as are also salt fish and dried peas. 

By February people with scant supplies had little left but flour and 
tea. Some time in April supplies of potatoes and rutabagas were 
exhausted. Condensed milk, salt meat, and even salt fish were getting 
very scarce. In ]\Iay everybody's supply of everything but flour was 
low or exhausted. New summer supplies did not begin to arrive until 
late in June. 

DISCUSSION 

We have here a diet chiefly of cereals. There is an excess in carbo- 
hydrate and at least a partial deficiency in vitamines and suitable 
protein. Growth in the children is retarded, more markedly in the 
poorer families. Deficiency diseases were less common than would be 
expected as the result of such a deficient dietary. Only isolated cases 
developed five or six months after fresh food was lacking in the diet, 
and two or three months after the supplies had been cut down to a 
minimum. An increase in general nervous instability was evident by 
the end of March. Psychoses and insanity became much more frequent. 
Most of these patients recovered completely on proper diet. Night- 
blindness- became common during April. A few cases of beriberi, 

2 Editor's note — The follovAng extract from a letter, "written by Dr. Appleton to Dr. C. F, 
Langu'orthy since the foregoing article was accepted for publication in the Journ'AL, gives Dr. 
Appleton's more recent opinion about the cause of night-blindness: 

"I believe, after going over my notes time and again and changing my mind several 
times, that night-blindness is a negative after-image following long exposure to the dazzling 
glare of the sun on the snow. At first the neurotic element seemed important, because it 
came in April when nervous instability seemed the predominating result of poor diet; in 
regions where deficiency diseases were rare; and occurred not in fanulies or exclusively among 



1921] DIET IN LABRADOR 203 

edema, xerophthalmia, scurvy, and pellagra were seen in May. The 
substances in food necessary for promoting normal growth and health 
must be only partially lacking, and so it would seem that they are much 
more widely distributed in food than is usually supposed. Vitamines 
are probably provided in part by the wild berries, small quantities of 
condensed milk and vegetables, and molasses. The importance of tea 
in the diet, together with the relative scarcity of deficiency diseases 
following such a restricted diet, leaves little doubt that the vitamines 
present in tea are of considerable value. 

It was interesting to find that spruce beer, made from young spruce 
tips, is a popular beverage in spring. Early explorers in this region are 
said to have prevented scurvy by using a pine infusion. "Beer" made 
by pouring hot water over the broken spruce tips is a mild and pleasant 
drink, whether fermented or unfermented. When made by boiling, 
however, it is very bitter but is popularly considered an excellent old- 
fashioned "spring tonic." Another very surprising and interesting 
finding was the fact that popular belief attributes curative value to 
raw bird's liver for night-blindness. Careful investigation traced this 
belief to tradition and not to any modem medical advice. 

the very poor but among groups of people. A purely neurotic etiology is excluded by the 
fact that the night-blindness occurs almost exclusively among men and that it responds readily 
to any treatment; only two cases could be found to have occurred in women. 

"The bird's liver treatment seemed to point to a real deficiency disease, but in most cases 
one liver was enough and more were not taken. If this were a deficiency disease, one would 
expect to find it in the region where beriberi and xerophthalmia were common, but it was 
most common in a village where these diseases were absent. Its frequency increased during 
April or early May and then decreased, although the scarcity of food became more and more 
acute and was not relieved until June. It was coincident in season with snow-blindness and, 
like it, disappeared with the melting of the snow. The two did not occur in the same person 
or following one another. Night-blindness does not occur during the dark winter days, or 
after dull days, or in surmner when the ground is free from snow. It varies in intensity and 
is usually intermittent, probably dependent on the brightness of the day or the amount of 
exposure. It is most common in young adults engaged in out-of-door pursuits; women rarely 
go out, and so escape. It is described as a blindness that comes on at twilight; the eyes 
'feel weak all day and then there is a cloud at night.' The person affected can see a light 
no matter how blind, but can see nothing else. Convalescents here are similarly blind after 
reading too long. Any one can experimentally get a like after-image by looking at a white 
sheet or book under a strong light at night. 

"The treatment cures, because the patient who submits to treatment remains in the 
house. Night-blindness must be a retinal fatigue rather than an inflammation, as in the 
case of snow-bHndness in which the photophobia is extreme. Poor diet may increase the 
probability of seeing after-images just as fatigue does." 



204 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

STUNTS OF HOME ECONOMICS WORKERS 

^VTNIFRED STUART GIBBS 

It goes without saying that we are proud of the manner in which 
home economics has developed. Since the days when "domestic 
science" in\ited its first followers to consider the delights of being 
"cooking teachers," and "domestic art" beckoned alluringly to the 
sewing machine, we have travelled far on the road to professional con- 
sciousness. As a group, however, we do not yet realize to the full our 
potential power. Flushed with the vactory of our well-fought fight for 
academic recognition, we may go down to defeat if we array ourselves 
against, or even fail to support, certain forces now making themselves 
felt. Obviously, we cannot all be brilliant technicians in food or textile 
laboratories, but let us not forget those other laboratories, where are 
being worked out problems of human, rather than of chemical, rela- 
tionships. Moreover, is it not in these same larger social laboratories 
that the work of chemist or pedagogue is destined to reach fullest 
fruition, and receive adequate appreciation? 

The cooperation between home economics workers and social service 
is one of the earliest examples of this. No one questions the breadth 
of common interest between home economics and forces that are socially 
remedial. Visiting housekeeping, hospital dietetics, settlement classes, 
these are but a few of the tested lines of team work open to the home 
economist. We are just beginning to realize, however, what it may 
mean to work in the largest field of all, that is, with the great and unor- 
ganized masses of the housekeepers of the nation. 

An increasing number of home economics specialists are taking their 
training and scholarship into the so-called "commercial world" and are 
serving as connecting hnks between their profession, the manufacturer 
or dealer, and the public. This is the story of one of these "stunts" 
in home economics, written in the hope that other workers may be 
induced to tell other stories of yet other stunts. 

The advertisement of a large milk company in New York came under 
the eye of a home economist who is by way of liking to seek new trails. 
"The man who wrote that," she said to herself, "had the right idea, 
but did not know how to use it to best advantage. Perhaps I can help 
him." So much for the initial contact. It was an easy matter to 
convince the company that to organize their publicity on an educational 
basis would be "good business." The home economist was quite 



1921] STUNTS OF HOME ECONOMICS WORKERS 205 

thrilled at the thought of counting her students by the hundred— she 
did not guess that it was to be by the thousand— so the experiment 

began. 

Since the underiying principle on which the work was based called 
for unsolicited cooperation from the public, it was decided to open a 
small office in one of the stores operated by the company for the sale 
of dairy products. The store chosen was in up-town Manhattan, 
where the patronage was made up of well-to-do, English-speaking 
families with young children. Later, if the experiment should prove 
successful, the worker argued, a center might be established in a down- 
town store. At first, however, it was vital to the success of the plan 
to have instant and complete understanding from those who came to 
the bureau. 

A registered nurse, in uniform, was stationed in the prettily fitted 
up show window of the store. A scale stood near. A weight chart 
hung over the nurse's desk, ready to record the stories of progress to 
be made toward normal weights. A card that read as foUows was sent 
to every family living within a given radius: 

TO ALL OUR NEIGHBORS 

Perhaps children in your famUy are already drinking mUk. We hope so. 
If you are interested in having a special dietary, planned to meet the needs 

of any child in which you are interested, you may call at 

Avenue, at any time between 9.30 a.m. and 5 p.m. 

The women who have charge of the bureau have had wide experience in feed- 
mg children. The director has taught at a well-known university; the nurses 
are graduates of weU-known schools. 

Yours for strong citizens, 

Company. 

Within a week children were coming in unending streams, and at the 
close of the second month, the bureau has on its books the record and 
history of fifteen hundred children. This number is Hmited only by 
the fact that the nurses are turning away new applicants, until such 
tune as the staff shaU have made plans for proper analysis of data, as 
a basis for developing the work. 

All who are interested are given an announcement outlining the mfor- 
mation the bureau has to offer, and the educational contests that it 
proposes to conduct. Each child is given a weight card, with the number 
corresponding to his number on the wall chart, so that the nurses can 
see at a glance just what to do next. 



206 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

At the close of the three-months' period allotted for testing the public 
interest, the bureau is deciding on future policies. The three main 
lines of endeavor are: the neighborhood work centering in the bureau; 
a new neighborhood, where undernourishment is a definite problem; 
outside contacts in schools. 

Before anything further could be developed it was necessary to put 
the work on the professional map. How to do it was a nice question 
in human and professional relitionships! Finally, an invitation con- 
ference was called at the Academy of Medicine, as being neutral ground, 
and to this meeting were asked representatives of Columbia University, 
the Child Health Organization, the Diet Kitchen Association, the De- 
partment of Health, the medical profession, the Dietitians Association, 
the Home Economics Association of Greater New York, the Association 
for Improving the Condition of the Poor, the Charity Organization 
Society, and various other organizations. The ensuing discussion 
marked a point ir the development of home economics. The fact that 
such authorities were interested to discuss the matter at all meant that 
the profession is a living force in the world of social activity. 

Just what form the professional cooperation will take has yet to be 
worked out, since both the worker in charge and the various consultants 
realize that it must be done carefully. The fact remains, however, 
that there will be cooperation, the director of the project holding herself 
responsible to three groups: the company, the professional group, and 
the housewives. This means real team work. 

Meantime, a fellow profession has, it seems to some of us, a message.* 

"Let us have no illusions about this thing we call a profession. . . . 
The attainment of recognition may .... bring with it a self-satis- 
faction, an intolerance of new ideas and new blood that is the essence 
of destructiveness. It was this which happened to the medieval guilds. 

"Back of all the great professions there is a tradition — of men, of 
methods, of ethical standards. Partly it is that tradition which gives 
them dignity, which makes them greater than a mere aggregation of 
individuals. And partly also it is that tradition over which constructive 
evolution stumbles, in the face of which new ideas falter. ... If 
ever we reach the point where new ideas are frowned upon, where indi- 
viduals for their lack of orthodoxy are denied a hearing, where we are 
static and not dynamic — then we might better never have begun at 
aU." 

' The profession alluded to is social work. The message is from The Compass (March, 
1921), published by the National Social Workers' Exchange, 130 E. 32d St., N. Y. City. 



1921] boys' and girls' club work 207 

RELATION OF BOYS' AND GIRLS' CLUB WORK TO THE 
RURAL HOME AND COMMUNITY ^ 

GERTRUDE WARREN 
Assistant, Boys' and Girls' Club Work, North and West, United States Department of Agriculture 

Boys and girls together are the group through which those engaged in 
the extension of farm and home practices beheve that they can build 
most permanently in raismg standards of living, lessening home labor, 
and developing leadership whereby the rural family as a whole may be 
assisted to a higher plan of "self help" and community consciousness. 
Young people are easily molded in right habits and standards, and 
are the group reached on the threshold of the most intensive period 
of human usefulness as farmers and homemakers. Through their 
enthusiastic participation in helping to solve home problems they them- 
selves acquire an intelligent and sympathetic appreciation of rural 
home life. 

The methods used in the club activities are in keeping with the prin- 
ciples underlying the agricultural extension system that reaches every 
part of the United States. The system has been organized by the 
United States Department of Agriculture in cooperation with the land- 
grant colleges and county extension organizations in accordance with 
the provisions of the Smith-Lever Act of 1914 and other acts of Congress 
and state legislatures. Demonstrations on the farm, in the home, and 
in the community, by men, women, boys, and girls, are the chief means 
by which this work is done. It is backed by the research systems of 
the state agricultural colleges and the United States Department of 
Agriculture, and brings to the farmers and the homemakers the new 
information that is deemed practical and useful. By conducting a 
particular phase of the farm or home business and puttmg into opera- 
tion methods that have been found to be practicable, boys and girls 
are enabled to aid materially in solving economic problems and to raise 
standards in the community in a single year. 

For example, in some sections of the country the poor quality of the 
homemade bread and the insufficient amount used is a community 
problem of vital importance, for bread is in the American diet not only 
the proverbial "staff of life" but one of the best foods for keeping down 

1 Published with the permission of the Secretary of the United States Department of 
Agriculture. 



208 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

the cost of the diet as a whole. Consequently in the homes of club 
members demonstrations have been conducted through which both 
boys and girls and their families have learned what good bread is and 
how to make various kinds of it. For instance, the five thousand 
Minnesota boys and girls, who during 1920 belonged to bread clubs, 
are bound to have an influence in their homes and communities, just 
as has a club of twenty Indian girls who taught their mothers how to 
make yeast and quick breads. Moreover, bread club work, like all the 
homemaking activities, g>/es club members an opportunity to assume 
greater responsibility in the farm home. During 1920, over four 
thousand bread club boys and girls did all the baking for their families 
as naturally as did the North Dakota girl who wrote: "Oftentimes it is 
necessary to wash clothes and make bread on the same day. It is hard 
for mother to do both, so I make the bread." Foreign-bom boys and 
girls in rural districts are especially interested in bread clubs. They 
rarely miss a meeting and often bring their parents with them, thus 
making club work of benefit in the broad movement of Americanization. 
"I cannot tell half what club work means to the people here", writes 
the judge of a recent county bread-making contest. "The best loaf of 
bread was made by a little Austrian girl who never had white bread 
in her home until she joined the bread club. Three of these little 
Austrian girls from the same community had never seen a train before, 
or an electric hght, or a moving picture show. They stayed in an 
American hotel in a real American bed and wore for the first time the 
nightgowns that they had made in their club work. 'They could 
scarcely sleep,' their leader said, 'thinking how funny they looked in 
their long white robes.' One of these girls made the best loaf of bread. 
You are doing a wonderful work in the foreign homes of this northern 
country." 

The public demonstration team work is proving to be exceedingly 
effective in extending the influence of the bread and canning clubs, 
for it is one of the best methods of interesting adults. They are often 
drawn to such demonstrations by their general interest in boys and 
girls, and nearly always go away exponents of the practices taught. 
During 1920, in the North and West, over two thousand bread club 
girls gave such public demonstrations. 

Meal preparation clubs also have an influence on the life of the home 
and the community through the planning and serving of well-balanced 
meals at home and of hot lunches at schools. The boys and girls learn 



1921] boys' and girls' club work 209 

something of the principles of food selection and why some foods are 
especially important in the diet. For instance, "the value of milk 
used in the preparation of soup and cocoa has been strongly empha- 
sized," writes a state club leader in telling of the hot school lunches 
prepared and served by her boys and girls. Nearly 250,000 of these 
school lunches have been prepared in the North and West during 1920, 
and about 30,000 meals planned, in addition to the preparation of over 
200,000 foods for club members and their families. 

A few years ago, canning in the average home was done on a small 
scale, and with only a few foods. Now, home canning of meats and 
vegetables as well as fruits has won for itself a distinct place among the 
few remaining home industries. The canning clubs have played an 
important part in this by introducing labor-saving methods and demon- 
strating the use of pressure cookers and other improved equipment. 
Also during the war, because of methods already tested, canning clubs 
were an invaluable aid to the food conservation program. Incidentally, 
the girls and boys doing this work have gained in responsibility and 
initiative. Many girls, for instance, do all the canning for their homes, 
and it is not uncommon for a club girl to be recognized as an authority 
on canning in her neighborhood and even to have her services employed. 
Elizabeth, a Colorado club girl known throughout her county as the 
most successful canner of meats, has earned an average of $3.50 a day 
by carming for the women of her community. She takes her equipment, 
including a pressure cooker, with her and often spends several days in 
one home. 

Im.portant though it is to improve household practices in the prepa- 
ration and use of foods, boys' and girls' club work has not stopped there. 
When the close of the war lessened the need of canning demonstrations, the 
clubs began to turn more of their attention to clothing. The high price 
of textiles and labor, especially in ready-made garments, made clothing 
an economic problem, and the clubs set about doing what they could to 
solve it. The community programs under which they work are so 
flexible that the change from canning to clothing demonstrations was 
made without waste of effort. The different clubs have of course taken 
up various phases of the problem, according to their needs. Some 
members have made inventories of their wardrobes, estimated the cost 
of the clothing they would need for one or two years, and set as their 
goal what they thought they could accomplish within that period. 
Others, interested in making the best use of what they already had, 



210 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

have demonstrated the care and repair of clothing, remodeling, dyeing, 
and even laundering. 

Practically all clothing club girls do their own mending, and many 
keep the clothing of the entire family in order. Also many clubs have 
during the past year made profits by selling aprons, rompers, under- 
clothing, and other easily made garments to the women of their commu- 
nities. Good machine work and intelHgent use of commercial patterns 
have been demonstrated m nearly all the states. Many girls are also 
demonstrating the essentials of appropriate dress. As a consequence, 
the girls learn what are correct standards of dress and personal appear- 
ance, how to judge the value of well-made garments, and how to exercise 
economy in buying. The success of these clothing demonstrations can 
be seen where the work has been under way for some time, in such 
results as improvement in the quahty of materials and style of dress of 
country boys and girls, increased self-respect on their part because of 
better garments worn, a change in the character of materials handled 
by the countr>' store, and better care of clothing. 

The latest development in club work is partly an outgrowth of the 
clothing demonstrations and has great possibilities in adding to the 
attractiveness and comfort of the rural home. For a long time club 
members have been making curtains, pillow cases, towels, and dresser 
scarfs for their bedrooms, but not until this past year did they reaHze 
that they could transform their entire rooms. Clubs of these girls have 
adopted as their slogan, "Own Your Own Room." The leaders find 
that the girls are intensely interested in rearranging and redecorating 
their rooms, selecting and refinishing furniture, and using materials on 
hand to the best advantage. The club members are not urged to make 
dressing tables from soap boxes or wing chairs from barrels. The 
leaders assume that the girl on the farm today, either has furniture 
which a Httle work will make more attractive, or is able to buy new 
pieces. Especially is this true of the club members who have money 
earned in their other club activities. The wide field of household deco- 
ration and sanitation is thus opened to these girls. After a 4-H club 
girl has wrestled with the problem of producing a pleasing effect in a 
little bedroom with a sloping roof, she is anxious, and probably her 
mother and brothers as well, to see what may be done to solve similar 
problems throughout the house. The results of pig and calf clubs 
have shown the benefits of developing a sense of responsibility and 
ownership in the farm boy. The "Own Your Own Room" clubs are 



1921] boys' and girls' club work 211 

doing for the farm girl what these stock clubs have done for him. More- 
over, leaders feel that, if this club activity can bring, even in small 
measure, a fuller appreciation of farm and home life to rural boys and 
girls, it has paid big dividends on the energy and money expended. 

Boys' and girls' club work has even deeper significance than the 
immediate results show. In far too many cases the only training that 
rural girls receive in homemaking is through organized club work. The 
situation described by this club leader is typical of that in many commu- 
nities: "The majority of our rural girls marry as soon as they complete 
the eighth grade, or leave school to marry, and most of them know 
absolutely nothing about cooking, housekeeping, or anything that 
pertains to homemaking." Statistics show that about fifty per cent of 
rural girls leave school between the ages of fifteen and nineteen, and 
fourteen per cent of these girls marry very soon after leaving. At 
present, a very small percentage of the rural schools that these girls 
attend have courses related to homemaking. Leaders in club work 
are therefore making a special effort to reach such girls and give them 
the fundamentals of nutrition and the basic principles of good home- 
making practices. Where there are county club agents, it has been 
possible to reach twenty per cent of the farm homes. 

The economic returns to club girls from their work in gardening and 
poultry are pro\ing to be not only a large factor in solving immediate 
problems of clothing, education, and other wants, but also a boon to 
former club girls who, in partnership with their husbands, are pooling 
all their resources to buy a farm of their own. According to statistics, 
over fifty per cent of the farmers under thirty-five years of age are 
tenants. 

Nor does the club work with girls stop with the gardening and poultry. 
During 1920, in the North and West, over five thousand girls were 
enrolled in live-stock and crop clubs. Leaders encourage rural girls 
in these activities, for it is believed that such work broadens the 
sphere of influence of the girl in her future role of wife and mother. 
She is then able to appreciate and discriminate justly in attacking 
and helping to solve rural problems that arise, establishing confi- 
dence in others, and becoming herself a recognized force in farm 
and home development. Likewise leaders encourage rural boys to 
participate in club activities related to homemaking, so that through 
this common effort of boys and girls for farm and home betterment 
there will develop a sympathetic understanding and common interest 
in the farm and home. 



212 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

The quality of all club work is raised by providing special means for 
gi\-ing publicity to the demonstrations conducted, encouraging and 
rewarding work well done, and including the social activities that make 
a strong appeal to the adolescent. There are, therefore, club records; 
various contests; club festivals, hikes and tours, when each member 
observes the work of all the others; achievement day meetings, when a 
premium is placed on the successfully completed demonstration; and 
charters, given to those clubs that meet the requirements of a standard 
club. 

The outstanding features of boys' and girls' club work that play an 
important part in rural home development and at the same time are of 
direct benefit to the boys and girls themselves may be briefly summed 
up as follows: 

In all extension work, it has been recognized that permanent progress 
toward better agriculture and homemaking is directly dependent upon 
the kind and amount of leadership developed. Boys' and girls' club 
work is a simple and efficient system for developing rural young people 
into such leaders. First, it interests boys and girls through a community 
program of work. Then it helps them to carry out the program, and 
this results in their servdng the community. Scores of former club 
members are now community and county leaders in the county extension 
organizations of the North and West. In Norfolk County, Massa- 
chusetts, alone, eleven leaders of the canning and bread clubs during 
1920 were former club members. 

The interest gained from becoming a demonstrator in some home- 
making club acti\ity has led thousands of girls to take systematic 
instruction in homemaking in secondary schools and colleges, often 
paying their own way in part with money earned through club work. 
During 1920, in the North and West, 3383 club members attended short 
courses in agriculture and homemaking at the state agricultural col- 
leges, while 730 club members won scholarships. State club leaders also 
reported that over 1800 former club members were taking the agri- 
cultural and home economics courses in the state agricultural colleges. 

Moreover, as has been shown, such work as that provided in the 
homemaking and agricultural clubs gives rural boys and girls experience 
that they can capitalize to good advantage in their future work as 
farmers and homemakers. In addition, through the club group, there 
is developing among the rural young people, initiative, \dsion, and a 
home and community consciousness, which assures a happier, richer, 
and more contented rural home life. 



1921] PROBLEMS OF THE DIETITIAN 213 

PROBLEMS OF THE DIETITIAN IN THE CARE OF OUT- 
PATIENT POOR SUFFERING FROM 
DISEASES OF METABOLISM' 

MAX KAHN, M.D. 

College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, and Attending Physician, Beth 

Israel Hospital 

There are a number of problems that present themselves in the care 
of the poor patients suffering from some disturbance in metaboHsm. 
Some of them are chronic cases and they tax the patience and generos- 
ity of the physician, the dietitian, and the social welfare worker. They 
are old people, or elderly people, usually, and the professional welfare 
worker feels rather disincUned to exert herself indefinitely for their 
sake. The question that I shall endeavor to discuss borders on the 
domains of social charity, dietetics, and medicine, and I ask your 
indulgence if I diverge from the caloric value of food and a well- 
balanced diet. 

There is a tendency on the part of the welfare worker to react with 
little interest in the case of a chronically ill, elderly patient. It is true 
that from an economic point of view, it is poor business to invest money 
in the care of such sick. They never become productive members of 
society. They will, most likely, always remain a burden upon the char- 
ity organization. WTiy bother with them, when there are acutely ill 
patients, young and robust, who can be helped for a little while and 
who then become self-supporting? The injustice of such a tendency is 
great and self-apparent and yet it is ever present. 

These patients are derelicts on the road of misery and poverty. They 
are veterans of the battles of life who have lived industriously until age 
and disease have made them dependent upon our charity — so often 
wanting in us. To neglect them is to show a sense of utter lack of social 
responsibility. It is as if a people were to neglect crippled war veterans 
who have sacrificed their all for our safety. Such a condition of affairs 
is intolerable and should be remedied. 

How can one treat an old diabetic patient, who, not only has not the 
wherewithal to purchase the special food necessary, but has not the very 
bare means of subsistence? WTiat purpose is it to give advice as to diet 

I Presented at the Third Annual Meeting of the American Dietetic Association, New 
York. October. 1920. 



214 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

and medication when the patient does not know where to get his next meal? 
Suppose this patient is referred to the social service department. After 
due investigation he is helped for several weeks, and then the help stops, 
for there seems to be no end to the assistance to be extended. 

I have proposed that a certain budget be assigned to the social wel- 
fare department to be used by the dietitian at her discretion. When 
such cases do appear in the cUnic, the physician, the dietitian, and the 
social worker will not fenl so helpless. 

The dietetic treatment of the poor must be especially circumspect. 
It is my lot to attend to a clinic ser\ing the very poorest of the poor. 
In advising a diet for them, the physician must have the following facts 
clearly before him: the economic status of the patient; the foods that 
can be most economically purchased; instruction of the patient by the 
dietitian in the preparation of foods; continued and repeated examina- 
tion of the patient — his state of acidosis or sugar tolerance in diabetics, 
his degree of edema and nitrogen retention in nephritis; investigation of 
the home life of these patients. 

The economic and financial condition of the patient must be known. 
Those dependent on the support of their relatives must be urged to fol- 
low implicitly the directions given to them. It is advisable, occasionally, 
to speak to the relatives who are supporting the patient and impress 
them with the desirabihty of following the dietetic regulation, and with 
the health penalty that will follow disobedience. Amongst the poor, 
especially the Jewish poor, the family ties and the family affections are 
very strong, and these words of caution will help very much, 

WTien the financial status of the patient is such that he or she must 
become a burden upon charity, we must see to it that organized welfare 
work accomplishes its duty. The arrangements must be made with the 
"baker, the butcher, and the candle stick maker" to have the necessary 
food ingredients suppHed to the patient. One point must be remem- 
bered — and I was taught this by a social service worker — that more 
than necessary must be given to the patient if she be a mother, for, 
otherwise, the mother will share with her children and will herself abstain 
from the food in order to see that her children have enough. 

If something suitable can be found for the patient to work at and help 
in earning his subsistence, well and good. If not, it is the duty of the 
state or of the welfare department to see to it that proper support be 
extended to the ailing individual. 



1921] PROBLEMS OF THE DIETITIAN 215 

The dietitian must see to it that, in carrying out instructions of the 
metaboHst in regard to food ingredients, only such vegetables and 
other foods are recommended as are in season and are to be obtained 
easily and cheaply. In this regard the dietitian serves her main func- 
tion. And not only this, she is to visit the home of the sick or have 
classes in the hospital where the sick can visit and be shown how to 
cook the vegetables and other food properly and palatably. 

May I, at this juncture, point out to you the religious factors in 
the preparation of a diet? I am especially able to discuss the diet ques- 
tion from the orthodox Jewish viewpoint. You know, for example, that 
Catholics refuse to eat meat during the Lenten season. So do the Jews 
have certain religious regulations in the foods that are allowed to them. 
The more miserable and poor a person is, the more there is implanted in 
him all superstitious and religious observances. He seeks his consolation 
in the church, the synagogue, or in the various medical cults. At that 
time one caimot teach the patient science or logic. One has to recog- 
nize these prejudices as one recognizes varying tastes, and cater to them. 
To ignore these scruples or belittle them is to work harm to the patient 
and animosity toward the dietitian. 

There is an opportunity for dietitians in the Jewish hospitals. It 
seems that there are very few Jewish women who enter the profession of 
dietetics. In order to be a dietitian in a Jewish hospital or in a Jewish 
community, it is essential that the religious laws of the Jews be known 
by the dietitian. It is not necessary that she be a Jewess. 

All dietetic ritual laws of the Jews are based upon the fourteenth chap- 
ter of Deuteronomy. If you, at your leisure, will read through Deuter- 
onomy you will become expert in the Jewish ritual, and therefore can, 
help us very much, in all the communities where the populations are 
dense, in solving this problem. 

And remember this especial injunction: "Thou shalt not seethe a kid 
in its mother's milk." The Talmudic explanation of this is — you may 
be interested in this subject — that it seemed cruel to Moses to take a 
calf and seethe it in its mother's milk, and he therefore forbade this 
practice. 

The rabbis, in explaining this, say that in a civilization like that of 
the present time one cannot know which is the kid and which is the 
mother's milk, and therefore they have forbidden the mixing of flesh and 
milk, and not only the flesh and milk, but flesh products and milk prod- 
ucts. For example, you may not take a piece of butter on your bread 



216 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

when you eat meat. Nor may you take a glass of milk when you eat 
chicken. 

One cannot see any logical relation between chicken and milk. There 
is no relationship there, but that is the ritual, and it is a very thorough 
ritual, and you will find millions of people here in America who would 
rather starve than eat anything that will be a mixing of this diet. 

May I repeat, there is a crying need for dietitians who understand the 
Jewish ritual. It is not essential that they be of the Jewish faith as 
long as they are cognizant of the Jewish prejudices. This is especially 
the case with v-isiting dietitians and with those who are to become con- 
nected with orthodox Jewish hospitals — in contra-distinction to the 
reformed Jewish hospitals. 

One scientific point I should like to make. In visiting the sick, espe- 
cially the diabetic sick, I have noticed that the dietitian gives instruc- 
tions that are not altogether in consonance with the laws of metabolism. 
In the advice given to diabetics one must remember that, while it is 
desirable to keep the patient sugar free, it is especially essential to keep 
his hydrogen-ion concentration, his acidosis, normal. This can only be 
done by limiting the fat intake. For, while the diabetic individual is 
characterized by a disturbance in the metabolism of carbohydrates, he is 
also, due to this fact, suffering from an improper break down of the body 
fats with the resulting formation of the acetone substances, which are 
so toxic. The patients, therefore, must be cautioned against the indis- 
criminate use of fats. 



1921] CLASSICIST AND ROMANTICIST 217 

CLASSICIST AND ROMANTICIST 

A CALOR-EPIC 

This is the tale of the calorie, wrapped in our liver and bacon, 

Hidden away in the bean and spurning the succulent celery. 

Large is his stature or small, and how shall we fashion his dwelling? 

Why is his place in the sun, and why is he leagued unto nations? 

Surely the gods have repented the evil they wrought on our fathers, 

Given us this calibration to measure the tube of Prometheus. 

Probably one quiet day, when feeling quite bored with Olympus, 

Jupiter looked toward the earth and, snitching a test tube from Vulcan, 

Dipped from the spring of the gods a portion that equaled one cc. 

Laid it away in the sun, and then called to a Standardized Mercury, 

Saying, "Just watch this, old man; from fifteen, centigrade it to sLxteen." 

Thus was the calorie born, but so small seemed that heat-unit infant 

Straightway they fashioned another and made it a thousand times greater. 

"How can we take this to man? How can we deliver the measure?" 

"Call me three slaves," said the god, "let them henceforth govern the cosmos. 

"Summon the Proximate Principles: Fat, Carbohydrate, and Protein. 

"Theirs shall the task be to carry our marvelous prodigy earthward." 

So was it done, but before they departed, the three mighty magnates. 

Rose from the spot a fine mist and enveloped Jupiter's throne room. 

Chilled by the air of Olympus it fell in the form of fine droplets, 

Over the marble it splashed, and the gods sought their raincoats and rubbers. 

Jupiter's knees then it clasped and moaned with disconsolate weeping, 

"Father, the giver of calories grieves, unrewarded, forgotten; 

" Best of Olympian Springs and most chemically pure of all waters, 

"Shall these new rich ones ignore my essential presence among them?" 

"Dear me," said Jup to himself, "I sure have been mighty forgetful, 

"My, what a row I'm provoking if three have all of the power, 

"Laborers aren't what they were, and we can't have strikes on Olympus." 

Gravely he pondered while stroking his beard and his prominent forehead 

Said then these words on which hung all the nutritive fate of the nations, 

"Water, in lands wet or dry, be you of all foods an essential; 

"Never \vithout you shall function Fat, Carbohydrate, or Protein." 

This is the tale of the calorie. Unit that ruleth all empires, 

Bolshevik he of the Bolsheviks, commonest he in all Communes, 

Shaping the outcome of wars, unshaken though governments totter. 

M. H. 

THE LAY OF THE VITAMINSTREL 

The times are long and changed the earth 
Since calories had celestial birth; 
Our trust in Proximates grows cold. 
That standard's now infirm and old. 
No longer simple calories 
Can keep us free from dread disease, 
Not tho' von Pirquet conjure them 
W^ith novel measurement and Nem. 
The proteins in the bean and wheat 



218 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

We find are sadly incomplete; 

Naught wTeaks to put in overtime 

Consuming iron, phosphorus, lime; 

Add cellulose and ample water — 

Still we don't function as we'd oughter. 

Awhile we thought the wicked lack 

Lurked on the amino acid track, 

And fought with protein building-stones, 

The same as in our flesh and bones; 

The colloid and tLe frisky ion 

We've sought to master and rely on; 

And the bacillus knowTi as Bulgar 

We've worked till buttermilk is vulgar. 

In kitchen, hospital, and lab 

The learned seek the fiend to nab. 

Science cuts down the barnyard quorvun 

With polyneuritis gallinorum; 

Imprisons many a guiltless rat, 

First makes him thin, then makes him fat; 

While scores of humble student flunkeys 

Attv^nd on guinea pigs and monkeys. 

It seems, poor beasts, a scurvy trick 

To make you xerophthalmic, sick, 

But not in vain your sufferings, 

You rickety, neuritic things! 

At last, across our ignorance 

We see a mystic Something dance. 

Is it substance or property? 

And is it one or twenty-three? 

(Today it's three — no doubt before 

They print this, 'twill be several more!) 

Why lurks it in the butter-pat 

And not in lard that's just as fat? 

Why in the Chinamen's queer soy 

And not in Boston's weekly joy? 

The sailormen of olden times 

Got what from lemons, not from limes? 

May we feed babies canned tomatoes? 

And shall we bake or boil potatoes? 

And when we know just where to claim 'em, 

Then say, ah say! What shall we name 'em? 

O dire confusion! Some there be 

Who term it food accessory; 

Still more wax fierce and voluble 

For fat and water soluble; 

While others preach the A, B, C, 

Of nutritive deficiency. 

Does cwm fit? Not on your life ! 

Still let it end the wordy strife. 

The classic fogies quit the scene, — 

All hail the romantic Vitamine ! 

H. A. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONSUMER FOR FOOD 
STANDARDS AND PRICES^ 

AGNES FAY MORGAN 
Department of Household Science, University of California 

Nearly every person in the United States has been made familiar in 
the last fourteen years with at least the name "Pure Food and Drugs 
Act of June 30, 1906." This federal act operates only in interstate and 
international commerce in food and drugs. Any product made, sold, and 
consumed within the boundaries of a single state, therefore, cannot 
be held amenable to this law. For the protection of its citizens, then, 
each of the states has enacted food laws of its own, most of them similar 
to or identical with the federal law, some less stringent than that law, 
others more so. The result of these varying regulations is sometimes 
rather confusing, and certainly the expense of the manufacturer of any 
widely sold food is greater than if more uniformity prevailed. There 
has recently, however, been appointed a joint committee on Definitions 
and Standards made up of federal and state food officials, which is pa\dng 
the way effectively for the adoption of uniform food laws among the 

states. 

As consumers we are interested in this uniformity chiefly for economic 
reasons. A food product which can be put up in one container under 
one label with one standard of content for the whole country is apt to 
be cheaper than one which has to be varied in order to be legally salable 
in various states. It is the object of this discussion to point out the 
definite cost to the consumer which all food law protection has involved. 

The ''Karo" case. An example of the effect of diversity in the state 
food laws may be cited from the bitter plaint of the Corn Products Refin- 
ing Company of Chicago. This large and influential corporation markets 
a great variety of food and other materials made from Mississippi VaUey 
com. The starch of the corn when subjected to the action of strong acid 

1 Reprinted from the University of California Chronicle, July, 1920. 

219 



220 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

at a given temperature for a given length of time hydrolyzes, or breaks 
down largely into glucose, although the less completely hydrolyzed prod- 
ucts, dextrine and maltose, are present also in considerable quantities. 
Glucose is an entirely innocuous substance, of equal food value with any 
other sugar, and when sold under its proper name, and for the low price 
that it should command, is an honest and valuable foodstuff. However, 
a prejudice against glucose as such exists in the public mind, for the rea- 
sons probably of its supposedly artificial origin from starch and its lack 
of sweetness when substituted for cane sugar. The Corn Products Com- 
pany consequently desires very much to obviate the use of the word 
"glucose" on the label of their various table syrups. The fancy name 
"Karo" was adopted for one of these syrups purposely to abide by the 
federal law which does not require a statement of ingredients if a pack- 
age food is offered under a distinctive proprietary name. But many of 
the states do so require an accounting. Thus, in Kansas, Karo has to 
be described as surJi a per cent glucose and such a per cent cane s>Tup; in 
Wisconsin it is necessary merely to state that the product is glucose 
with cane flavor; in Virginia the percentage has to be given; while in most 
states the description "com and cane syrup mixture" is sufficient. This 
case has been fought out in the supreme courts of at least two states with 
a favorable decision for the Com Products Company in that the words 
"com syrup" may be used instead of the word "glucose" on the label. 

But where is the consumer involved in this case? His prejudice 
against the word glucose, his knowledge of the possible cheapness of any 
glucose product, and his intelligent criticism of the high price of a glucose 
syrup explain the determined campaign of the manufacturers for the 
name "com syrup." 

The costs of long-continued litigation, and of the advertising campaign 
to popularize the mysterious natural com syrup, assuredly do not lessen 
the price of the commodity itself. State food laws uniform with each 
other and with the federal law would obviate the whole struggle, since 
one decision would settle the matter for the whole country. 

The objects of food laws. Food laws, state and federal, have two ob- 
jects: (1) the protection of the public health, (2) the protection of the 
public pocket book. Under the first of these, which we may call the 
hygienic aspect, may be grouped four main varieties of protection, having 
to do (1) with the condemnation of unclean or patrid foods, (2) with the 
forbidding of the use of injurious preserv^atives, coloring, or bleaching 
agents, (3) with the spread of disease germs, (4) with the devitalizing of 
foods. 



1921] RESPONSIBILITY FOR FOOD STANDARDS AND PRICES 221 

The food inspection. The federal meat inspection regulations are the 
best example of the first variety of protection. The inspection of food 
animals before and after slaughtering, of sanitary conditions in packing 
houses, and of the finished meat products is now carried out for the most 
part efficiently and honestly. Canned goods, eggs, fish, and milk are 
the chief materials which the food officials must watch for indications 
of decomposition and consequent danger to health. There is practical 
unanimity of opinion among consumers and inspectors alike as to the 
edibility of such spoiled goods, and the manufacturer is likewise often 
civic-minded enough to be unwilling knowingly to sell such food to the 
unsophisticated purchaser. The reported cases of so-called ''ptomain- 
poisoning," "sausage and shell-fish" poisoning are far fewer now than 
ever before, chiefly as a result of the activity of food inspectors. 

"Swells" and "springers" as spoiled canned goods are called, are unfor- 
tunately sometimes removed from the tell-tale bulging can, sterilized, 
and recanned for the market. This practice is difficult of suppression, 
and can be detected only by constant factory inspection. Spoiled eggs 
are broken, packed in tin cases at low temperatures, and sold to bakers 
as "cooking or liquid eggs." The food officials have recently been rather 
active in prosecutions for this offense. Spoiled butter is reprocessed or 
renovated, and placed again on the market, and this is allowed under 
proper labelling. According to a recent cartoon in a San Francisco news- 
paper, ancient fish painted fresh every day or two, given new glass eyes, 
and a coat of varnish might be sold as perfectly fresh to the gullible 
housewife, if it were not for the watchful care of the food inspector. 

In some cases there may be a question as to the entire justification of 
the wholesale condemnation of slightly fermented foods if proper sterili- 
zation has been carried out. Certain canned foods might be reprocessed 
and sold with an honest description of their history and at an appropri- 
ately low price probably without danger to the public health. This 
is one of the economic as well as hygienic aspects of the food problem 
which deserves intelligent consideration. A case in point is the reproc- 
essing of butter. If the consumer can be made to understand the pos- 
sibilities and also the limitations of such conservation, the first step 
toward a return to rational economy will have been taken. 

Further, the condemnation of damaged but usable goods by food 
officials for the reason that producers and jobbers, if allowed to sell the 
food at all, will demand full prices therefor has recently been the sub- 
ject of some discussion by state authorities. The writer recalls the case 



222 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

of a large consignment of rain-damaged prunes of the crop of 1918, some 
of which the State Board of Health ruled might be sold under that name, 
although at first the decision had been for condemnation of the whole 
lot to use as hog feed only. Although these prunes were eventually sold 
at ver\' slight reduction below the high market price, the total food avail- 
able for home use and for export was thus increased. 

Botulism. Of peculiar interest to Cahfomians is a newly emphasized 
t\TDe of food poisoning knowi. as botulism. This is caused by toxins 
produced by the Bacillus botuliniis, formerly thought to thrive only in 
meat or other protein-rich foods. In recent years its deadly presence 
has been proved in a fairly large variety of canned vegetable foods as 
diverse as string beans, apricots, ripe oHves, asparagus. This organism 
seems to exist in a wide variety of places, but to occur more frequently 
on the Pacific Coast and in California than in any other part of the United 
States. 

WTien the spores are present in food canned by the usual household 
method or even by the more effective commercial process, their acti\dty 
in toxin production is unimpaired, and the eating of even the smallest 
portions of such food usually results fatally. To be sure, cases of botu- 
lism are extremely rare, when the quantity of canned food consumed daily 
is taken into account, but active research into the occurrence and means 
of prevention of even these few cases is now being carried on. Wide 
diffusion of information as to the possibihty of such poisoning should 
become part of the duty of state and federal food officials, so that all 
canned food showing traces of decomposition may be rejected immedi- 
ately. Since it is beheved that, if canned food is heated to the boihng 
point for five to ten minutes before being served, the danger of botuHsm 
is greatly lessened or entirely removed, the effort should be made to 
spread this information in order that this safeguarding habit may be 
adopted by the largest possible number of consumers. 

On the whole the protection of the public health from dangers due to 
food grossly contaminated by filth and decomposed by the action of 
micro-organisms may be said to be fairly adequate. 

The use of preservatives. The second hygienic aspect of the food laws, 
that concerned with the regulation of the use of added preservatives, arti- 
ficial coloring, flavoring, or bleaching agents, presents a more compli- 
cated condition. Many interested consumers are familiar with the 
famous contest between authorities as to the harmlessness of some of 
these substances. Dr. Harvey Wiley began the campaign against pre- 
servatives with a series of experiments upon human subjects, the "poison 



1921] RESPONSIBILITY FOR FOOD STANDARDS AND PRICES 223 

squad," the results of which he declared showed conclusively the danger 
of the use of any preservatives added in any amount whatever. The 
substances under consideration were borax, boric acid, salicylic acid, 
sulfites, or the "sulfuring" process, copper salts (for greening peas and 
beans),' formaldehyde, benzoic acid, and sodium benzoate. There was 
so mudi protest against his findings and so much criticism of his experi- 
mental methods that the Federal Government appointed a board of 
referees composed of five well-known physiological chemists, each of 
them at least equal in professional reputation to Dr. Wiley, to reinvesti- 
gate the matter. After a long series of careful experiments carried out 
individually by these men, some of Wiley's findings were reversed. They 
concluded that, in the small quantity in which some of these preserva- 
tives are apt to be used, no detectable harm to health need be feared. 
The use of formaldehyde and copper salts was forbidden, but the use of 
benzoic acid, sodium benzoate, sulfur dioxid, and sodium sulfite was 
aUowed, provided the amount used be specified on the label. These 
conclusions were afterwards verified by a series of careful experiments 
made for the former Imperial German Government. 

The significance to the consumer of this long drawn out and much 
talked of contest now lies only in the principle of the matter. The actual 
quantity of chemicaUy preserved food which is apt to find its way to the 
family table is very smaU indeed, largely as the result of these investiga- 
tions and of legislation. The chief food affected is commercial ketchup, 
a condiment only, and one which is more apt to serve as an ornament on 
the boarding house table than as a stable addition to a common sense 

diet. 

The so-called natural preservatives, salt, sugar, wood-smoke, saltpetre, 
spices, and vinegar are not forbidden in any amount by the food laws. 
And yet there is grave doubt whether when used in immoderate amounts 
any or all these substances may not prove injurious. 

The real objection to the use of preservatives lies in the fact that more 
or less decomposed foods, and unsanitary methods, may be made profit- 
able to the manufacturer if he is able to avoid the consequent spoilage 
and unsalableness of his product by preserving to it at least the appear- 
ance and smell of freshness through the use of such substances as ben- 
zoates or sulfites. Honest ketchup for instance, unpreservxd in this 
way, is on the market, and should be used to the exclusion of the ques- 
tionable product which must declare sodium benzoate on its label. 



224 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

The sidfuring of dried fruits. The sulfuring of dried fruits may be 
mentioned here as a deeply interesting question from California's point 
of view. The dryers insist that a marketable product of good keeping 
qualities cannot be made without the use of some sulfur dioxide. Some 
years ago the U. S. Department of Agriculture handed down a food 
inspection decision to the effect that not more than 350 mg. of sulfur 
dioxide per pound of dried fruit might be allowed. The agitation among 
growers and dryers was immeaiate and intense. They insisted that in 
the case of some fruits, such as apricots, peaches, pears, and apples, suc- 
cessful dr>'ing could not be accomplished with the addition of so little 
sulfur. The United States Government withheld its decision, then, till 
an investigation should show the merits of this claim. The results of 
that investigation have not yet been published, and meanwhile all the 
dried fruits are sulfured at the discretion of the producer. It is true, 
however, that a small amount of sulfuring pro^ddes protection against 
insect infestation, and that the law states that the producer may not 
use excessive sulfuring to conceal the inferiority of the product or to 
market an excess of water. 

The blame for this condition of affairs should be placed squarely upon 
the consumer, who demands light-colored 'golden-yellow dried peaches, 
apricot-colored dried apricots, white dried apples and dried pears, light- 
brown figs, wistaria-colored raisins, and now bright light-green Thomp- 
son seedless raisins. None of these fruits can be supplied in these colors 
unless in addition to the natural drying process a strong sulfur bleaching 
be added. 

As long as the market calls for these yellow sulfur and brimstone flav- 
ored dried fruits the market will be supplied with them by the 
producers. Sun-dried apricots, peaches, and other fruits are oxidized 
on the surface to a dark coloration by exactly the oxidative enzyme proc- 
ess which darkens freshly sliced apples, peaches, or potatoes. But such 
naturally darkened dried fruits cannot find a place in the present market. 
The California fig, white or black, dries naturally to a very dark color, 
the Thompson seedless raisin takes on a brown color, the malaga ?nd 
other raisins become almost black. And all this without the admixture 
or aid of any "dirt" or dust. But the consumer will not have them when 
golden-yellow sulfured fruits are obtainable. 

{To he continued) 



1921] REVIVAL OF HOUSEHOLD SPINNING 225 

A REVIVAL OF HOUSEHOLD SPINNING 

SIARGARET WILLIAMSON 

Under ordinary circumstances, no one takes any notice of a dusty 
brown spinning wheel, tottering in its corner of the antique shop. One 
expects it to be there, just as one expects the rag rugs, the faded Paisley 
shawls of former splendor, the shimmer of Dutch silver, the deep blue 
of Steigel glass. But over the door of a New York shop there swings a 
sign that announces lessons in hand spinning, weaving, quilting, and 
tatting to be had within. In consequence, this time the spinning wheel 
takes on special significance, and explanations are required at once. 
These Mrs. Teller, who has charge of the shop, is happy to give, for she 
has flung her whole heart into her new project. 

"The Society for the Revival of Household Industries and Domestic 
Arts was founded only about one year ago," she said, "but those of us 
who are deeply interested in it have great hopes of its future. You may 
smile, but I actually feel myself a missionary in this crusade to give 
back to the women of today the homely, creative tasks that their great- 
grandmothers knew. Scores of women who were engaged in war work 
for several years find that they wish to continue with something useful 
and remunerative. You would be astonished to know how eagerly 
many of them take up spinning, once the idea is presented to them, even 
if they are able to devote but a few hours to the work and produce only 
a small output. There is no reason why we cannot raise flax in this 
country, and spin and weave for ourselves in these days of the scarcity 
and costliness of Hnen. In my shop we have used only wool and linen, 
but of course one may work in silk. It has been estimated that an 
ordinary spinner, working eight hours a day for two weeks, should be 
able to spin and weave the material for her own suit. There's a goal 
worth effort." 

According to the reports ^hat Mrs. Teller is in a position to give, 
women of means and leisure re not the only ones to whom this work 
appeals. Not long ago she 'i as visited by a representative from the 
North Bennett Street School, in Boston, where they are considering 
teaching the wives of the foreign unemployed to spin. A unit at the 
school has already been formed, and it is hoped to collect wheels enough 
to enable the women to work in their homes. Also, the work has been 
proved highly beneficial to children who are mentally deficient, for it 
requires just enough concentration on the slow-moving thread. In a 



226 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 



number of sanitariums interest in spinning is aroused; physicians are 
sending their representatives to investigate the matter. Several sani- 
tariums have raised and spun their own flax. The work is not ener- 
vating, and it has great therapeutic value. To illustrate the simplicity 
of the task to an experienced spinner, it is only necessary to say that 
certain parts of it can be accompHshed without even looking at it. In 
fact, the world's record was estabhshed by a blind girl in Ireland, who 
spun 250 miles of thread from one pound of flax. 

Mrs. Teller believes that to weave machine-spun thread is practically 
time wasted. The result is much less pleasing, having none of the 
''floats," or little rough places, which occur in the hand-spun fabric. 
Material that has been hand-spun, she calls "fabric with a soul," As 
to the durabihty of these hand-spun and woven materials, most persons 
have witness in certain family heirlooms, exquisite linen sheets or 
towels, or quilts of soft colorings and quaint patterns, long beloved of 
the mountain peoples of the South. 

Now, when conditions of labor make one weigh the advantages of 
being one's own producer and manufacturer, is surely the moment to 
interest women, particularly those in remote districts, in spinning their 
own flax and making their own household hnens. The Society for the 
Revival of Household Industries and Domestic Arts hopes to interest 
women all over the country; it plans to send out teachers, to establish 
branches, to collect spinning wheels. And this last task is not so difficult 
as might appear. Wheels lurk in dark corners of many country attics. 
Often people will give them away. Sometimes, if they are prized, Mrs. 
Teller undertakes to return family rehcs, and she carefully marks each 
with the name and address of its owner. Not long ago a man sent into 
the city to her a truck load of spinning wheels, some broken of course, 
but all capable of repair. 

"I could tell many curious stories of the happiness that has come into 
the lives of women through their having learned to spin," continued 
Mrs. Teller, "and of how this happiness has been passed along. For 
instance, a teacher in one of the Washington schools has recently become 
interested in spinning. During winter, she has but one day each week 
to give to it; but every summer she spends in the mountains of Pennsyl- 
vania and while there strives to gain the confidence of the country 
women, to persuade them to learn to spin. Gradually, after much 
perseverance, she is near to success. She is also considering inducing 
the Girl Scouts to take up spinning — a plan of infinite possibility." 



1921] THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE HOMEMAKER 227 

Mrs. Teller also told of a young Southern girl, nervously exhausted 
from overwork during the war, who had been helped back to normal 
condition by spinning. She worked on wool found in the wellhouse at 
her old home until she had enough to knit herself a beautiful soft scarf. 

A house in East Sixty-first Street built in 1799 by an aid-de-camp to 
General Washington has just been restored as new quarters for the 
Society. There spinning wheels already stand before the great fire- 
place in the kitchen, awaiting the women who have applied for in- 
struction. 



A SIMPLE HAND LOOM 

A reader has sent us a cutting from the Christian Herald referring 
to the hand-loom weaving industry in India, wherein reference is made 
to a cheap and simple hand-loom designed by Adjutant F. C. Maxwell, 
who is in charge of the Salvation Army's industrial work in India, and 
who during his twelve years' connection with the hand-loom industry 
in that country has become acquainted with the various textures woven 
in different parts, from the coarse cloths of the Punjab to the fine silks 
of Assam. The hand-loom in question is stated to be suitable for either 
the coarsest cloth or the finest silk, and to be very easy to manipulate, 
and so simple in construction that the ordinary village carpenter can 
easily repair it. 

These looms are supplied from the Salvation Army loom factory in 
Bombay. They have been adopted, it is stated, by several Indian 
Government Institutions, besides being of great service in the Salvation 
Army's industrial work in Indid,.— South African Jourjial of Industry. 



THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE HOMEMAKER 

MILDRED WEIGLEY 
Division of Home Economics, University of Minnesota 

The following chart was made in order to show in graphic form a 
partial analysis of the vocation of homemaking. The chart aims to 
indicate those responsibilities which are frequently carried either in 
part or in whole by the homemaker. 



228 



THE JOLTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



Skill in 
tions 



occupa- 



Preparation and 
serving of food 



Construction and 
repair of clothing 
and furnishings 

Care and rearing 
of children 



Care of house 



Laundering 



Responsibilities 
of the home- { 
maker 



Joint manage- 
ment of home ' 



Purchasing agent 

and 
business manager 



Educational man- 
ager 



Establishing char- 
acter of enter- 
prise 



Social manager \ 



Superintendent of 
plant 



Food standards 

Planning of meals 

Dietary studies 

Care of food 

Scheduling and dispatching 

Time studies 

Repair of linen, curtains, etc. 

Repair of clothing 

Children's clothing 

Physical development of 

child 
Cleaning operations 
Use of labor-saving devices 
-j Care of equipment 
Arrangement of equipment 
Care of storage space 

Accounts 
Analysis of expenditures 
Budgeting 

Balancing and settlement of ac- 
counts 

Savings and investments 

Marketing 

Cost of food 

Meal planning 

Selection of shelter 

Selection and replacement of equip- 
ment (including labor-saving 
devices) 
[Selection of clothing 

Food requirements 

Child training (reading, play, dis- 
cipline, formation of habits) 

Standards for food and service 

Standards for individual cleanliness 

Standards for order 

Standards for beauty 

Cleanliness of home 

Standards for clothing 

Standards of business management 

Atmosphere of hospitality 

Recreation — personal, community 

Group relations within family and 
community 

Scheduling of work 

Efficient oversight of workers and 
equipment 



EDITORIAL 

A Call to Service. The great hour of opportunity for the American 
Home Economics Association is at hand, an hour made possible by the 
contributions of the home economics worker to the world during the 
war. The call for even greater service is now being made to every 
home economics worker in America. 

The world is focusing on the health of the human race from childhood 
to old age. Every association dedicated to bettering human life is call- 
ing for more information regarding human nutrition, maintenance of 
efficiency, and the direct teaching of those basic principles which enter 
into everyday living. In all these, home economics workers are the 
leaders who must point the way. The need was never more compel- 
ling, the call was never more imperative; they must either forge ahead 
and assume leadership or surrender it to others. 

The International Congress of Home Economics Instruction to be 
held in Paris in July, 1922, is asking the American Home Economics 
Association for assistance. It is our opportunity to help direct the trend 
of home economics education and practice over all the world. Australia 
is asking home economics educators to come to her and advise re- 
garding the systematic introduction of home economics into her uni- 
versities and secondary schools. Our own Mrs. Norton is organi2ing 
the work for the American College for Girls at Constantinople, 

The hour for leadership, for service, for constructive development, 
was never so full of promise for the Association. 

The Atlantic City meeting proved beyond question the intense inter- 
est of school authorities and the public in home economics and its con- 
structive program. In developing the policies and the program of work 
for next year, the Association needs every one of the ten thousand home 
economics trained women in the United States. Will any one of you 
fail to answer this challenge to service, to contribute your part to the 
annual meeting at Swampscott, Massachusetts, June 27 to 30? The 
Association needs your experience, your help, your point of view. The 
whole world needs all that America can give along home economics lines. 
This is a call to service, to leadership for every woman in the United 

229 



230 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

States who has dedicated her life to bettering humanity through direct 
scientific, systematic training in home economics. 

Mary E. Sweeny. 

The New Editor of the Journal. Mrs. :Mary De Garmo Bryan, 
President of the American Dietetic Association, has consented to be 
editor of the Journal during Mrs. Norton's absence in Constantinople. 
Mrs. Br>-an begins her work \.ith the June issue. For the inter\-ening 
period since Mrs. Norton sailed in January, Ruth Van Deman, of the 
Office of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture, 
has been acting for her. 

The International Congress of Home Economics Instruction 
Postponed. Word has just been received from M. Leon Genoud, 
director of the International Federation of Home Economics Instruction, 
that the Congress which was to have been held in Strasbourg, on July 
28 to 31, 1921, has been postponed for one year and the place of meetmg 
changed to Paris. The committee arranging for this Congress could not 
complete the preparatory work by the date originally set. With another 
year in which to think about and plan for this Congress, it is hoped that 
the American Home Economics Association will have an even fuller 
representation than would have been possible this year. 

A Gram of Radium for Madame Curie. Madame Curie, the 
greatest living woman in the scientific world, will visit this country 
about the middle of May, on in\'itation from the women of America. 
With her will come her two daughters, the elder also a scientist. 

^Madame Curie, who is fifty-six years old, is the most gifted of three 
unusual daughters of a Polish educator. One of her sisters is principal 
of an important young women's school in Warsaw, and the other is 
director of a famous sanitarium in the Galician mountains. Madame 
Curie went from Warsaw to the Sorbonne when a young woman and in 
Paris married Professor Curie, who met a tragic death by accident in 
1906. 

Madame Curie has received the Nobel Prize for her discoveries in 
radium and has also received other important awards and distinctions 
from several countries. She has put all of the money received from 
the Nobel Prize and other awards into the founding of the Curie Radium 
Institute in Paris, where she now works unceasingly. The Institute 



1921] EDITORIAL 231 

was completed in 1913 and was closed during the war because Madame 
Curie volunteered for work in the army hospitals. 

Madame Curie will be able to remain in the United States for but 
two or three weeks and can visit only a few cities. In these cities groups 
of the most noted physicians and men of science are cooperating with 
the women to give this great woman of science a fitting welcome. 

The women of America have conceived the beautiful idea of offering 
to Madame Curie on the occasion of her visit to this country a gram of 
radium to use solely for her experimental work. She has never pos- 
sessed such an amount of radium for her independent use. As this 
gram will cost approximately one hundred thousand dollars, an appeal 
will be made to the women of the country to contribute the money 
necessary for the purchase. Home economics workers in all parts of 
the country will of course want to have a share in this gift, and con- 
tributions may be sent to the Journal Office. Checks should be made 
payable to Mme. Curie Radium Fund. 

Calcium in the American Diet. Dr. H. C. Sherman' again empha- 
sizes the importance of more attention to the calcium in the diet of 
American people. He has collected and published comprehensive data 
on the calcium metabolism of adult man, representing the work of 
several different investigators and covering ninety-seven experimental 
days on many subjects. The average calcium metabolism is given as 
0.45 gram for the adult man of 70 kilos whose protein requirement is 
known to be 44 grams. This bare minimum of both protein and cal- 
cium should, of course, be increased somewhat in practical dietary plan- 
ning to allow for a margin of safety. For every 100 grams of protein in 
the diet there should be at least 1 gram of calcium or 1.4 grams of cal- 
cium oxide. 

Studies of 224 typical American diets, part of them made by the 
U. S. Department of Agriculture sometime ago and part more recently 
by the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor,^ show the 
average to contain 106 grams protein per adult man, which is 140 per 
cent above the actual requirement of 44 grams. The amount of cal- 
cium in the same diets was 0.74 gram, or only 64 per cent above the 

^Sherman, H. C: Calcium requirement of maintenance in ma.n, Jour. Biol.,Chem.,^, 
21. (Oct. 1920.) 

^ Sherman, H. C, and Gillett, L. H. : The adequacy and economy of some city dietaries, 
N. Y. Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, Publication No. 121 (1917). 



232 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

requirement. Only one of these 224 families fell below the protein 
standard while 1 in 6 fell below in the amount of calcium. If the 
calories in all cases had been increased to 3000 per adult man, none 
would have been low in protein, while 7 per cent would still have been 
low in calcium. The explanation obviously lies in the fact that the 
American diet furnishes too much meat for the amount of milk. 

Although, as Sherman suggests, it might be possible to sprinkle 
calcium onto our food from a salt cellar, it would probably be less diffi- 
cult to teach the public to use more of the calcium rich foods, such as 
milk and green vegetables, and such an addition would at the same 
time furnish the vitamines more abundantly. 

Nuts for our Proteins. Nuts deserve, at least in part, the con- 
sideration by "nutarians" which has made them an important source 
of protein in the diet of these food faddists. Nuts were found long ago 
by Jaffa to be thoroughly digested and quite easily so if taken as a part 
of the meal. Their high coefficient of digestibility has been demon- 
strated also in later experimental work by other investigators. As a 
sole source of protein in rat-feeding experiments conducted by Cajori^ 
they have proved themselves according to the criterion of Osborne and 
Mendel: "If an animal is able to attain adult size upon a diet furnishing 
protein from a single source the nutritive value of this protein is clearly 
established." 

Cajori in his report states that satisfactory growth and milk production 
were observed in young rats on diets in which the almond, English 
walnut, filbert, and pine nut acted as the essential protein. Daniels 
and Loughlin^ two years ago found peanuts and peanut meal capable of 
furnishing all the necessary amino acids for the growth of rats when 
the protein from the peanuts constituted 15 to 18 per cent of the total 
food. Likewise Hoobler' found that wet nurses could use nut proteins 
in the form of almonds, English walnuts, pecans, and peanut butter 
just as efficiently in the production of milk as they could use the animal 
proteins. With the exception of the nut proteins, the animal proteins 
were better than the vegetable ones for the elaboration of milk. 

^Cajori, F. A.: Some nutritive properties of nuts: their proteins and content of water 
soluble vitamine, Joitr. Biol. Chem., 43, 583 (Sept. 1920). 

' Daniels, A. L., and Loughlin, R.: Feeding experiments with peanuts, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
3i, 295 (1918). 

' Hoobler, B. R.: The effect on human milk production of diets containing various forms 
and quantities of proteins, Amer. Jour. Dis. Children, 14, 105 (1917). 



1921] THE QUESTION BOX 233 

The water-soluble B vitamine is present in these nuts in sufficient 
quantities for growth, as both Cajori and Daniels and Loughlin agree. 
That the fat soluble vitamine is lacking, however, is reported by both 
the above as well as by Coward and Drummond'' in a recent English 
publication. The inorganic constituents require supplementing also. 
It would appear that the much used term "meat substitute" as applied 
to nuts is an accurate one. 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: Is frozen ice cream which has been allowed to stand in 
the cans frozen or partially frozen injurious? Would such an ice cream 
be more likely to contain organisms causing ptomain poisoning than 
homemade ice cream similarly treated or milk which has been kept in 
cans for 24 hours? Does it matter how many times ice cream may be 
frozen, melted, and re-frozen, provided it is not kept for a longer time 
than the milk and cream from which it is made would have kept sweet? 

Answer: In normal cream held for some time the lactic bacteria 
should exist in considerable numbers. But when cream is held at low 
temperatures these organisms do not develop rapidly, whereas certain 
types of putrefactive organisms may develop even at refrigeration tem- 
peratures. These, however, would not be present in ice cream pro- 
duced under sanitary conditions. (Marshall, C. E. "Microbiology," 
2nd ed., p. 448.) Refreezing ice cream, therefore, would produce no 
untoward results provided there were no putrifying organisms present 
in the ingredients from which the cream was prepared. Such ice cream 
could be kept considerably longer than the milk and cream from which 
it was made, provided these were kept at the usual ice-box temperature. 

Question: Is there any evidence that the constituents of milk, par- 
ticularly the vitamines, ash, and protein, are not deleteriously affected 
and rendered less available for use by the human body by the process 
of boiling? 

Answer: The results of recent investigations indicate that the anti- 
scorbutic vitamine in milk is not thermostable, considerable destruc- 
tion taking place even at the pasteurization temperatures. The other 
two known vitamines, fat-soluble A and water-soluble B, appear not 

* Coward, K. H., and Drummond, J. C: Nuts as a source of vitamine A, Biochem. Jour., 
14, 665 (Oct. 1920). 



234 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (May 

to be materially, if at all affected, by boiling. In fact, milk may be 
heated considerably above boiling without appreciably diminishing 
the potency of these two vitamines. The protein also seems to be 
unaffected by the usual methods employed in heating milk. The most 
significant changes that take place in milk during the process of heating 
are in the mineral constituent, especially the mono- and di- calcium 
and magnesium phosphates. Some of these are rendered insoluble and 
in this form appear to be less available. These changes in the mineral 
constituents, however, are not dependent upon the boiling temperature 
but may take place at pasteurization temperatures. In fact, milk 
boiled quickly for short periods is less affected than milk pasteurized by 
the "hold" system. The literature is reviewed in "A Deficiency in 
Heat Treated Milk" by A. Daniels and R. Loughlin, in the Journal of 
Biological Chemistry, Vol. XLIV (1920), p. 381. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



The Nation's Food. By Raymond Pearl. 
Philadelphia and London: W. B. Saun- 
ders Company, 1920, pp. 274. S3.50. 
In this book we have for the first time data 
which will enable us to answer the questions 
how much and what kind of food does the 
American people as a whole eat. It is a 
statistical study based on material gathered 
for the Food Administration. The author 
has kept in mind the purpose of providing 
raw statistical material for the student of 
social and economic problems. He has 
refrained from any interpretation of the 
facts presented or from any criticism of the 
conclusions which might be drawn from 
these facts. 

This study marks a step in the socializa- 
tion of our economics. The author deals 
with the food supply, not in terms of dollars 
worth of production, of exports and imports, 
but in terms of content of nutrient material. 
In admirable tables there are presented data 
showing how much protein, fat, and carbo- 
hydrates, and calories are annually produced 
in forms usable for human food; how much, in 
terms of these values, is imported and ex- 
ported; how much is available for home con- 
sumption; and how, in each case, the distri- 
bution is made among the several classes of 
food commodities. 

The period studied covers the fiscal years 
1911-12 to 1917-18. The tables are excep- 
tionally clear and well set up, and a good 
index makes it possible to use them readily 
for reference. The procedure by which the 
figures have been arrived at is carefully 
given and any limitation to the accuracy of 
the figures pointed out. 

Several important points in the food 
habits of our people, of which the student in 



many fields will be glad to have proof, are 
interestingly brought out. In fact this book 
should be of use to a wide range of students, 
to the student of agricultural economics, of 
nutritional physiology, or sociology, to the 
practical social worker, and to the maker 
of tariffs. All of these persons will find 
in it definite material for answering many 
troublesome questions in regard to the size 
and use of our food supply and for supply- 
ing a basis upon which to make suggestions 
for improvement in the well-being of our 
people. 

Chase Going Woodhouse, 
Smith College. 

Elementary Home Economics. By Mary 
LocKWOOD Matthews. Boston: Little, 
Brown and Company, 1921, pp. 343. 
S1.50. 

This book contains first lessons in Sewing 
and Textiles, Foods and Cooker>', and the 
Care of the House. The sewing and cooking 
lessons follow the better type of conven- 
tional lessons planned to meet the needs of 
the girls' wardrobe and the three daily meals 
of the family. The pages devoted to the 
care of the house are all too few in number 
and do not sufficiently emphasize the im- 
portance of this portion of the housewife's 
task, though provision is made for ade- 
quate study of kitchen furnishings in con- 
nection with the cooking lessons. The book 
is printed in good type and binding, affording 
a pleasing appearance, and the contents will 
undoubtedly prove of value to the young 
teacher who is teaching sewing and cooking 
in the grades and who feels the need of help 
from the experience of others. 

Carrie Alberta Lyford. 



235 



236 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 



Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education: 
The Child and the Kindergarten. Kindergarten Circular No. 6, February, 1920. 
Civic Training Through Service. Arthur William Dunn. Teacher's Leaflet No. 8. 
Constitution of a Community Association. Community Center Circular No. 1. 
Recreation and Rural Health. Teacher's Leaflet No. 7. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor: 
Children's Year. Children's Year Fob w-up Series No. 4, Children's Bureau. 
The Child-Welfare Special. Children s Year FoUow-up Series No. 5, Children's Bureau. 
Minimum Quantity Budget. Reprint from the Mo. Labor Review, Bureau of Labor Statistics. 

Issued by the U. S. Public Health Service: 
Malnutrition. Keep Well Series No. 11. 
Hygienic Laboratory Bulletin No. 116. (Contains articles on vitamines and pellagra.) 

Issued by the Bureau of Applied Economics, Washington, D. C: 
Changes in Cost of Living and Prices 1914 to 1920. Bulletin No. 6. 
Standards of Living. Bulletin No. 7, 1920. 
Wages in Various Industries and Occupations. Bulletin No. 8, 1920. 

Issued by the New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell University: 
The Cornell Reading Course for the Home: Thrift Series— Lesson 132, Economics of Good 
Furnishing, Annette J. Warner; Lesson 131, Economics of a Sound House, Helen 
Binkerd Young. 

Issued by the College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas: 
Feeding the Child. Juanita E. Darrah. Number 77. 
Haw to Buy, Care For, and Use the Family Wardrobe. Margaret Gleason. Number 79. 

Issued by the Armstrong Cork Co., Lancaster, Pa.: 
The Art of Home Furnishing and Decoration. Frank Alvah Parsons. 
Detailed Directions for Laying and Caring for Linoleum, 
Told in the Store. (Contains description of laying linoleum.) 

Issued by the publishers listed: 

The American Institute of Baking. Bulletin 1, No. 1, Minneapolis, Minnesota. 

The Bread Value of Wheat. T. Sanderson, May 1920, Bulletin 137. Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station, North Dakota Agricultural College, Agricultural College, North Dakota. 

Clothing Information Bureau. 'VSTiat a Clothing Bureau Can Do. How to Organize It. 
Mary Schenck Woolman, Clothing Information Bureau, Women's City Club of Boston. 

Home Project Report Card. Dept. of Voc. Educ, Carson City, Nevada. 

Home Economics in Texas High Schools. Annie Blanton," Agnes Harris, Lillian Peek. Bulle- 
tin April 12, 1920. Department of Education, Austin, Texas. 

International Causes and Remedies for High Prices. Obed Calvin Billman. American Peace 
Society, Washington, D. C. 

Legal Recognition of Industrial Women. Eleanor L. Lattunore and Ray S. Trent. Indus- 
trial Committee, War Work Council of the National Board Y. W. C. A., N. Y. City. 

The Measurements of Certain Elements of Hand Scxing. Katharine Murdoch. Teachers 
College, Columbia University. Contributions to Education, No. 103. 



1921] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 237 

Practical Knots, Hitches, and Splices. C. A. Norman, Perdue University, Dept. Agr. Exten- 
sion Bulletin 88, 1920. 

Putting the Home on a Business Basis. Edythe P. Hershey. Bulletin, No. 2003, Uni- 
versity of Texas, Austin, Texas. 

Suggested Budgets for Individuals with Incomes of $75 to $250 a Month. Society for Savings, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 

Textiles. Edith L. Mason. Bulletin No. 15. Connecticut Agricultural College, Stom. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

CURRENT PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Compiled by Maegaket Norton 

Food and Nutrition 

A Cooperative Lunch Experiment in a Suburban School. Ernest L. Thurston, Amer. 
Cookery, Feb. 1921. 

Sanitation in Food Preservation. E. O. Jordan, Amer. Food Jour., Jan. 1921. 

Evaporation of Fruits and Vegetables. W. V. Cruess, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, Jan. 1921. 

Third Annual Report, Committee on Nutritional Problems, American Public Health Asso- 
ciation. Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, Feb. 1921. 

Effect of Heat and Oxygen on the Nutritive Value of Butter. J. C. Drummond and R. H. 
Coward, Biochem. Jour., Dec. 1920. 

Effects of Heat and Aeration upon the Fat-Soluble Vitamine. F. G. Hopkins, Biochem. 
Jour., Dec. 1920. 

Note on the Vitamine Content of Milk. F. G. Hopkins, Biochem. Jour., Dec. 1920. 

Nutritive Value of Lard. J. C. Drummond and Others, Biochem. Jour., Dec. 1920. 

Comparison of Various Methods of Water Purification. W. M. Taylor, Chem. and 
Metallur. Engin., Jan. 19, 1921. 

Salt Manufacture in Michigan. W. S. Badger, Chem. and Metallur. Engin., Feb. 2, 1921. 

What Chemistry Can Do in the Food Industry. R. S. Hiltner, Chem. and Metallur. 
Engin., Feb. 9, 1921. 

Experiment in Cooperative Marketing. Frank Elnow, Forum, Feb, 1921. 

Vitamines. Ellwood Hendrick, Harpers, Mar. 1921. 

Bacteriological Study of Canned Ripe Olives. S. A. Koser, Jour. Agr. Research, Dec. 1, 
1920. 

Some Changes in Florida Grapefruit in Storage. L. A. Hawkins and J. R. Magness, Jour. 
Agr. Research, Dec. 1, 1920. 

Detection of Methyl Anthranilate in Fruit Juices. F. B. Power, Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 
Feb. 1921. 

Alleged Germicidal Properties of Milk. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., Mar. 12, 1921. 

Food and the Child. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., Mar. 12, 1921. 

How Much Fat Shall we Eat. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., Mar. 5, 1921. 

Necessity of Clear Thinking in Milk Modification. L. W. Hill., Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 
Mar. 5, 1921. 

Newer Aspects of Some Nutritional Disorders. A. F. Hess, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 
Mar. 12, 1921. 

Protein and Carbohydrate Equivalents in the Diabetes Dietary. E. M. Ewing, Jour. 
Amer. Med. Assn., Jan. 29, 1921. 



238 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May- 

Gas Production of Streptococcus Kefir. J. M. Sherman, Jour. Bacleriol., Jan. 1921. 

•Acidity of Goat's Milk in Terms of Hydrogen Ion Concentration with Comparisons to 
that of Cow's and Human Milk. E. W. Schultz and S. R. Chandler, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
Mar. 1921. 

Available Carbohydrate in Thrice Boiled Vegetables. Loretto O'Reilly and E. H. 
McCabe, Jour. Biol. Chcm., Mar. 1921. 

Effect of Alkali on the EfEcienty of the Water-Soluble Vitamine B. T. B. Osborne and 
C. S. Leavenworth, Jour. Biol. Chem., Feb. 1921. 

Fatty .\cids of Lecithin of the Egg Yolk. P. A. Levene and S. P. Rolf, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
Mar. 1921. 

Nutritional Requirements of \ >ast. IH. S>Tithesis of Water-Soluble B by Yeast. V. E. 
Nelson, E. I. Fulmer, and Ruth Cessna, Jour. Biol. Chem., Mar. 1921. 

Size of Fat Globules in Goat's Milk. E. W. Schultz and L. R. Chandler, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., Mar. 1921. 

Vitamines and Yeast Growth. R. J. Williams, Jour. Biol. Chem., !Mar. 1921. 

Cr>-oscopy of Milk. Julius Hortest, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., Mar. 1921. 

Botulism from Cheese. Marj- Nevin, Jour. Infec. Dis., Mar. 1921. 

Bettering the Food Service in Hospitals. Herbert Collins, M.D., Mod. Hosp., Feb. 1921. 

The Dietetic Department of a Western Hospital. K, Winifred McSwain, Afod. Hosp., 
Mar. 1921. 

The Place of Dietetics in Public Institutions. Katherine Bement Davis, Mod. Hosp., 
Feb. 1921. 

What are the Advantages of the Cafeteria System? Emma Baker, Mod. Hosp., Feb. 1921. 

\Miat the War Taught us in Training Hospital Dietitians. Mar>' de Garmo Br>'an, Mod. 
Hosp., Mar. 1921. 

Distribution of the Spores of B. Botulinus in Nature. K. F. Meyer, Pub. Health Reports, 
Jan. 2, 1921. 

Generating Cycles of Products and Prices. H. L. Moore, Quar. Jour. Econ., Feb. 1921. 

Statistical .\nalysis of the Relation Between Cost and Price. Kemper Simpson, Quar. 
Jour. Econ., Feb. 1921. 

Papaya, or Tree Melon. W. M. Murrill, Sci. Amer., ^Mar. 5, 1921. 

Latin Foods in Old New York. L. Lodian, Sci. Amer., Feb. 26, 1921. 

Salt From the Sea. A. L. Dahl, Sci. Amer., Feb. 19, 1921. 

Miscellaneotis 

Education for Social Work. Jesse F. Steiner, Amer. Jour. Soc, Jan. 1921. 

Action of Sea Water on Cotton and Other Textile Fibers. Charles Doree, Biochem. 
Jour., Dec. 1920. 

Case of Wall Paper Design. W. L. Harris, Good Furniture, Mar. 1921. 

Baby's First Clothes — .\ Practical Project. Edna J. Benson, Iruliis. Arts., Jan. 1921. 

Oriental Influence in Printed Textiles. Jean Paul Slusser, Indus. Arts, Mar. 1921. 

Real Lace Making in a High School Class. Mabel .'Vrleigh, Indus. Arts, Jan. 1921. 

Some Suggestions for Clothing Courses in 1921. Janet Cation Thurston and Rosamond 
C. Cook, Indus. Arts, Apr. 1921. 

Paper Clothes. Lit. Dig., Jan. 29, 1921. (From article by W. F. Schaphorst in " Paper.") 

Changes in Cost of Living in the United States. Mo. Labor Rev., Feb. 1921. 

Index Numbers of the Total Cost of Living. G. E. Bamett, Quar. Jour. Econ., Feb. 1921. 

Prices — Today, Yesterday, and Before the War. Ralph Howard, Sci. Amer., Jan. 29, 1921. 

Detection of Imitation Furs. L. A. Hausman, Sci. Amer. Mo., Feb. 21, 1921. 

\\'hat Kind of Goods Dye Best. Sci. Amer. Mo., Mar. 1921. (From Dye Stuffs, 
January, 1921.) 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Trustees of Pratt Institute take 
pleasure in announcing the appointment of 
Frederick W. Howe as Director of the School 
of Household Science and Arts, succeeding 
Isabel Ely Lord, who resigned from the direc- 
torship in July, 1920. Mr. Howe comes to 
Pratt Institute from the State Normal 
School at Framingham, Massachusetts, 
where for twenty-two years he has been 
Director of the Department of Chemistry, 
Foods, and Sanitation in the Household 
Arts Department. He is also Scientific 
Director of the Walker Gordon Laborator>' 
Company, Director of the Food Laboratory 
of the Boston Floating Hospital, Director of 
the Garland School of Homemaking, and 
Director of the Food Laboratory of the 
Infants' Hospital, all in Boston. His wide 
and varied e.xperience includes also several 
years' association with the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology as instructor in 
chemistry. 

The Institute is to be congratulated 
upon having secured the services of a man 
of Mr. Howe's high professional attain- 
ments and fine personal qualities. His 
ideals for the work and his breadth of human 
sympathy assure the carrying on of the best 
traditions of the school and of the Institute. 
Mr. Howe enters upon his official duties 
July first. Until this date the administrative 
work of the school will continue to be carried 
on by Helen Hollister, Acting Director. 

The Institute has announced the discon- 
tinuance of the course in teacher training in 
the School of Household Science and Arts, 
in order to more fully develop the courses in 
training for homemaking and in training for 
trade and professional work. 



The University of Kentucky. Through 
the cooperation of the Home Economics De- 
partment of the University of Kentucky the 
monthly food cost at the House of Reform 
at Greendale has been reduced from $8,850 
to $4,810, and better meals have been pro- 
vided for the inmates. 

The work of plaiming the menus and the 
budget was done by Anne McAdams, a 
senior in the Home Economics Department, 
who graduated in February. Upon her 
graduation, Miss JSIc Adams was appointed 
state dietitian under the direction of the 
State Board of Charities and Corrections. 

The University of Florida. The new 
General Extension Division, which represents 
all state institutions of higher learning, has 
made an unprecedented record by enrolling 
5804 students during the first twelve 
months of its existence. 

Oregon Agricultural College. Because 
homemaking is the occupation of the major- 
ity of women, and because the School of 
Home Economics realizes the importance of 
training for that work just as for any other 
profession, a one-year Homemakers' Cur- 
riculum has been established. This curricu- 
lum provides especially for those women 
whose school does not qualify them to enter 
the regular courses, or whose duties demand 
that they content themselves with a short 
period of training for their life w rk, or 
whose aim in seeking training at the College 
is exclusively practical 

The second annex to the Home Economics 
Building was opened on March 12, 1921. 



239 



240 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



The University of Virginia is planning 
a special three months course for prospective 
nurses, to be given during the summer quar- 
ter. This \vi\\ include anatomy, physiology, 
sanitation, dietetics, bacteriology, pathology, 
and the history and ethics of nursing. 

The purpose of the course is to give the 
theoretical work before nurses enter upon 
their practical training, and to shorten the 
term of training now required. 

Russell Sage College, Troy, N. Y, A 
conference on household economics was held 
February 11 and 12 for the faculty and stu- 
dents of the college and for those in the 
community who were interested. 

The topics considered were grouped under 
the three headings: Problems in Nutrition, 
Household and Institutional Administration, 
Training Teachers of Home Economics. 
Among the speakers from other institutions 
were Aima Cooley and Emma Gunther, 
Teachers College; Cora Binzel, Cornell Uni- 
versity; Myrtle Caudell, State Normal 
School, Buffalo; Mrs. Mary De Garmo 
Bryan, President, American Dietetic Asso- 
ciation. 

Special Instruction in Homemaking. 
A special tj^pe of instruction in vocational 
homemaking has been organized in Bakers- 
field, Cal., for Mexican girls who were not 
making satisfactory progress in school be- 
cause they could not read and speak the 
English language. 

These girls prepare and serve lunch for 14 
teachers, and also a free lunch for 30 under- 
nourished children from the school near by. 
They are given the full responsibility for 
the preparation of the food each day. They 
are taught general housekeeping processes, 
house furnishing, and the care of children. 
Last year they made a complete layette and 
took entire charge of a three-year-old boy 
while his sister attended school for three 



months. They make their own clothes and 
often wash and iron them at school. 

The informal organization of the work 
affords opportunity for free discussion of 
good standards for home and community 
life, and improvement in the English lan- 
guage. 

An Institute for the Training of Nutri- 
tion Workers will be conducted under the 
auspices of the Elizabeth McCormick Me- 
morial Fund in Chicago, Illinois, June 13 to 
28 inclusive. Dr. William R. P. Emerson, 
of Boston, will give the lectures and class 
demonstrations, assisted by members of the 
staff of the Elizabeth McCormick Memorial 
Fund. For information write to the Eliza- 
beth McCormick Memorial Fund, 6 North 
Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111. 

NOTES 

Mrs. Ann Gilchrist Strong, formerly of 
Beroda College, India, is now professor of 
household arts in the University of Otago, 
Dunedin, New Zealand. 

Among the contributors to a recent 
volume, America and the New Era, is Dr. 
Sophonisba P. Breckinridge, Assistant Pro- 
fessor of Social Economy in the University 
of Chicago. This book is concerned chiefly 
with social reconstruction, and has an intro- 
duction by Herbert Hoover. Other contrib- 
utors are Richard T. Ely, Francis G. 
Peabody, and Frederic C. Howe. 

Dr. John M. Thomas of Middlebury, Ver- 
mont, has accepted the presidency of State 
College, Pennsylvania. This is an appoint- 
ment of special interest to home economics 
workers because Doctor Thomas is deeply 
interested in rural community problems and 
rural life in general, and has written and 
spoken a great deal about service in rural 
districts. 



The Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association 
will be held at the New Ocean House, Swampscott, Mass., June 27 to 30. Further 
announcement will appear in the June Journal. 



Vol. Xin, No. 6 June, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mary de Garmo Bryan, Editor Ketukah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Amy Daniels Ruth Wheeler Katharine Fisher 

Ex-Officiv Members — Mary E. Sweeny, President American Home Economics Association 
OcTAviA Hall, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton, Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, Chairman Extension Educational Section 
Lillian Peek, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Feeding Problems tn the Lumber Camps of the Northwest . . Jessie Rolhgeh Mueller 241 

Training Girls as Consumers 5. Helen Bridge 246 

The School Project Helen C. Goods peed 250 

The Hygiene of Women's Underwear Florence Caton 252 

Experiments in the Making of Doughnuts of Low Fat Absorption 

Minna C. Denton and Louise B. Pritchetl 255 

For the Homemaker 

Botulism and Home Canning .... Minna Denton, Ernest Dickson, Charles Thorn 261 

Tea Susannah Usher 267 

Editorial 272 

Open Forum 279 

Books- and Literature 281 

News from the Field 285 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registerea letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The JotmNAL of Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McCIurg's. Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



JOURNAL or HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 

T 




THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 

Your biscuits, rolls, gems and otlier dainty 
bread-stuffs can be no better than the bak- 
ing powder with which they are mr.de. 
Good baking powder is the leavening agent 
that makes them light and digestible. It is 
the keystone in the making of appetizing, 
wholesome cake, biscuits, muffins, etc. 

Of course, you want only the best of bak- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when you use 

ROYAL 
Baking Powder 



Made from 

Cream of Tartar 

derived from 

Grapes 




In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIII JUNE, 1921 No. 6 

FEEDING PROBLEMS IN THE LUMBER CAMPS OF THE 

NORTHWEST^ 

JESSIE ROTHGEB MUELLER 
Department of Hotne Economics, University of Washington, Seattle 

Lumbering is one of the most important industries of the far north- 
west. Washington, Oregon, and Idaho are widely considered the center 
of the world's lumber industry. The State of Washington leads the 
other two, having three hundred logging camps and eight hundred 
manufacturing plants. Washington alone has forests consisting of 
thirteen hundred billion feet of merchantable timber, and of seventeen 
hundred billion feet located in the mountains and at present considered 
unmerchantable. The indications are that the industry will be per- 
manent, and the various lumbermen's associations are helping in this. 
The manufacturers, for instance, are holding frequent conferences and 
originating biUs to be introduced into the legislature to save and perpetu- 
ate our forests. This industry, therefore, deserves our best efforts in 
the solution of its feeding problems. 

In order to be of assistance in this work, we must first learn the con- 
ditions and problems with which the industry is contending. The 
writer had made a light survey of existing conditions. Personal inspec- 
tion was made of camps, and data have been compiled from over forty 
questionnaires received from logging firms. The questionnaire took up 
the matter in detail, and consisted of forty questions. 

' Presented at the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Colorado Springs, June, 1920. 

241 



242 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

The camps are situated in the woods, miles from markets. This 
makes it necessary to have in the camp various types of men; it also 
makes the problem greater than if labor could be picked where living 
conditions are not difficult. Under normal conditions, practically all 
camps operate ten to twelve months and accommodate an average of 
eighty-five men. As the trees are cut the camps must move, and many 
of them stay only from twc to four years in one location. This neces- 
sitates the building of portable camps, which are often wide car-like 
buildings constructed on wheels and easily moved by rail. These cars 
are well built, have ample room, and are usually kept very neat and 
clean. 

The labor is cosmopolitan, consisting of Norwegians, Swedes, Ameri- 
cans, Poles, Italians, Austrians; or as one man puts it, "We employ 
every white race on earth." So far the colored and yellow races have 
not been used, except for general construction work especially in the 
building of rai.'roads. Naturally such a group is hard to satisfy, and 
many of the camps are infested with obstructionists. One reply says, 
"They are the type that expect the best without reason." These men 
are unsteady, the average time at one camp being about six months, 
though cases are known where men have stayed ten years. There are 
also many timber tramps who go from camp to camp, staying one or 
two days until well fed, when they quit and go to town, or hire out at 
some other near-by camp. 

Eight hours constitute a day's work, which is physically strenuous. 
It consists of rigging, felling, bucking, sawing, and loading. But all 
the men do not work conscientiously; as one large lumber company 
replied, "They all work eight hours, except the T. W. W.' and they 
don't want to work at all." Another firm sarcastically answered, "Yes, 
some work eight hours; others lazy on the job all day, just pretending 
to work." 

Some companies believe that they must give the food the men want 
in order to hold them. Sometimes a company will spend more on food 
and make up the loss by paying the men less. The charge for meals to 
the men varies from 35 to 50 cents, the average being 49 cents, while the 
average cost to the companies is 46 cents. The questionnaires showed 
that 50 per cent were running their cook houses at a financial loss, one 
camp reporting a loss of $600 a month. A camp manager says : "Through 
this part of the country a large expense has been added to feeding the 



1921] FEEDING PROBLEMS IN LUMBER CAMPS 243 

men from the fact of each camp \ying with every other to see who can 
feed the men the best, thinking by so doing they will be better able to 
retain their men. This is, to my mind, a mistake. What should be 
done is to standardize the food, giving the men good wholesome food, 
plenty of it and in good variety, well cooked and well served, everything 
clean and wholesome." Scientific and practical management can pos- 
sibly remedy this, as there seems to be no reason why feeding the men 
should be a burden. The companies do not desire to profit on the meals 
but they do want to "break even." Beneficial suggestions on buying, 
cooking, and eliminating waste can come from our universities. 

The menus are made out by the cook, who also does the ordering. 
The food is placed on the table, and the men help themselves. Dishes 
are replenished as soon as they are low. The proprietor of one camp 
says, "Plenty of everything is the only thing we go by." The breakfast 
menu generally includes cooked cereal with milk, sometimes cream; a 
meat, such as bacon or chops; eggs; biscuits; potatoes; milk and coffee; 
doughnuts; and fresh hot cakes. The hopeless attitude on the part of 
the management is shown by such remarks as: "It is not uncommon to 
see a man eat six eggs and one pound of bacon, drink three cups of coffee, 
and leave the table grunting that the food is no good." For dinner, or 
noon-day meal, the men are served at least two kinds of meat, three 
kinds of vegetables, potatoes, pastry, pie, cake, pudding, cookies, milk, 
coffee, tea, hot breads or two kinds of bread. At supper, they eat a 
meat, usually steak or chops, with a cold meat too, potatoes, two vege- 
tables, very often fruit cakes, and some pastry. The day's consumption 
of meat will average 16 ounces per man; of potatoes, 17 ounces; of coffee, 
1 ounce. The main difficulty seems to be not in the quality but in 
having all the variety at one meal. 

The buying is done principally through purchasing agents, store- 
keepers, and camp bosses. The quality is the best, although better 
selection according to food values and with the idea of having variety 
in the menu during the week and not all in one day would be an 
improvement. 

It has been found difficult to offer the required number (5000 to 
6000) of calories without having an excessive amount of protein in the 
diet. Associated with this is the habit of excessive meat consumption, 
which the men desire mainly for flavor. One questionnaire states as 
follows: "The working men of today demand the very best that money 



244 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

will buy regardless of cost. We set a regular camp table as all logging 
camps do, so everybody can help himself to anything he wants. There 
is nothing wasted by the cooks but a great deal by the men themselves, 
as they figure on getting their money's worth. From the loss you can 
see that they are getting it." Another says: "We give them most 
ever>'thing the market affords, all kinds of fresh or salt meats, eggs, all 
the fresh milk they can drink, plenty of everything the season permits." 

No butter substitutes are used, and, during the potato shortage, all 
camps ser\'ed potatoes twice a day and a great many three times. Of 
the forty- two camps, all except four were using fresh fruits occasionally; 
twenty served no fresh milk and used canned milk only. Every camp 
has an excellent water supply from the mountain springs. Not only 
is the best of foodstuffs purchased, but the cooks are well paid. Wages 
range from $125 to $200 per month with living, while the average is 
$150. Helpers and dining-room workers receive an average of $80 a 
month. 

The cooking is done in the movable cars already described. They 
average about sixty feet in length, and some of them show features of a 
modem hotel kitchen. There are cabinets for pastry and other foods, 
and the serving tables are covered with metal. The commissary cars 
have quarters for cooks at one end and a meat house at the other, while 
in the middle of the car are shelves and bins on metal rollers, and adjust- 
able shelves for supplies in barrels. The meat rooms are equipped with 
galvanized iron screens and shutters on the outside to give shade. 

Very few camps have cold storage facilities, and waste results from 
being unable to keep meats and other foods fresh. Every camp has its 
own store. More modern camps have theirs equipped with proper 
refrigeration where meats can be left until ready for camp. IMost 
camps raise hogs which are a means of using the waste. 

One of the most important needs is standardization of food. This 
will eliminate the continual moxdng on the part of the men. Camps, 
at present, are competing with one another for men by serving better 
food. 

Another need is better management. Much can be accomplished by 
showing the value of cooperation between the cook and the buyer. 
It would result in better planning and more economical cooking, as the 
buyer is versed in prices. Substitutes for expensive foods could be 
made; the cost of different dishes could be accurately worked out; and 



1921] FEEDING PROBLEMS IN LUMBER CAMPS 245 

the buyer, who is often also the manager or owner, could watch waste 
and suggest improvements. 

Better facilities are essential. Many camps have stores, electric 
lights, shower baths, and modern conveniences; they also should have 
better cooking apparatus. Ice plants would prove very valuable and 
would save waste. Left-over foods could be saved, and cool foods and 
drinks could be served cold. Labor-saving devices would not save 
labor cost, but they would enable the same help to apply more time to 
planning, and, in some cases, they would prove wise economy. 

The government has discovered that the cafeteria plan is more eco- 
nomical. It should succeed in the lumber camps, although to start 
such a movement would arouse opposition. In cafeterias, men may 
order what they want, and regulate the size of the portions and the 
amount they spend for their meals. Against such a plan is the fact 
that the men are tired and would rather be served. 

At the present time, there seems to be a gap between the university 
and the business world. This must gradually be eliminated and much 
has already been done along this line, especially in the commerce schools 
of the country. Cooperation between our department and the outside 
world can more quickly be accomplished by giving practical assistance. 

The questionnaires show that the managers and superintendents are 
divided according to their attitudes or points of view. There are those 
who realize that the problem might be solved by scientific study, first, 
of cost accounting, second, of balancing of menus. There are those who, 
realizing that they are failing in feeding problems, would like to better 
conditions, but do not know how to proceed, and would have to be con- 
vinced that suggestions of the trained worker would benefit them. The 
defensive and skeptical lumbermen believe that what they are doing is 
better than that which any one may suggest. 

For the trained worker in industrial camps, there is a wide field. 
The best opening would be in the camps that believe their problems 
can be solved. The University of Washington has been approached by 
one lumberman with the suggestion that his camp of seventy-five men 
could be used for an experiment by the trained worker. This illustrates 
that the lumberman, who is one of the most practical of business men 
is ready to grasp the opportunities at the university. 



246 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Ijune 

TRAINING GIRLS AS CONSUMERS^ 

S. HELEN BRn)GE 
Division of Home Economics Education, University of Nebraska 

The factors involved in training girls as consumers and the best methods 
of teaching these factors are questions of importance in this age of eco- 
nomic unrest. We are resp- nsible for providing all types of girls \^dth 
this fundamental economic background; boys may also be included. 
Opportunities for teaching these factors are afforded in the unit courses 
in part time and evening schools, and in the day schools and colleges. 
The amount of time this training will require will depend upon the func- 
tioning knowledge of the evaluation of expenditures for various com- 
modities that the girls previously gained. An analysis of the needs of 
the girls as consumers is our starting point, job analysis, including the 
elements of the problems, the information needed, both pertinent and 
related, the standards and terms, is being thoughtfully applied to all 
phases of home economics teaching. 

Girls may be div-ided into two groups according to the sources of 
their income: (1) those pursuing their education or staying at home, 
who depend upon allowances; and (2) those earning their living, who de- 
pend upon wages. An analysis of their financial obligations shows 
expenditures for clothing, food, housing, running expenses, and "higher 
life" or "greater happiness." A class of little girls interpreted the term 
"higher life" as meaning "heaven." Upon thoughtful consideration 
they decided that church, savings, better educational opportunities, and 
recreation meant "greater happiness." 

AU girls are primarily interested in their clothing. The girls' revision 
of their spending habits for clothing quickly brings forth convincing re- 
sults. The clothing factor requires a detailed study of shoes, stockings, 
gauze underwear, corsets, underwear other than gauze, dresses, suits, 
hats, gloves, and other accessories. Evaluation of one article of clothing 
is sufficient subject matter for one or more lessons. Let us take the study 
of shoes as an illustration; the girls will need to consider the kinds, cost, 
use, style, make, quality, and care as influencing durability, appropriate- 
ness, and quantity. Illustrative material is invaluable, and can be ob- 
tained from the shops and the homes. \'^isits to the shops assist in teach- 

1 Presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics Association held in connec- 
tion with the Division of Superintendence, N. E. A., .■Atlantic City, February, 1921. 



1921] TRAINING GIRLS AS CONSUMERS 247 

ing shopping ethics, including methods of payment. Advertisements 
from newspapers and magazines and catalogs from mail order houses 
give information. The instructor has an opportunity to demonstrate 
principles of economics, art, and personal hygiene in her own costumes. 

The value of each article of the wardrobe may be weighed in this 
manner. Evaluation of the time spent in construction, whether hand 
or machine, enters into the estimation. The girls may organize the data 
for each garment under selected headings and record it on Hbrary cards 
arranged alphabetically or according to topics. Helpful illustrations 
may be mounted on these cards. The data may be easily re\dsed as the 
styles and prices change. A desire to learn how to buy clothes 
intelligently is readily developed when the girls are dependent upon 
wages or an allowance. The productive aspect enters, that is, the care 
and repair of clothing, and the construction when time permits. Proper 
care means a reduction of the number of garments required. Girls 
want to know just how they may meet their clothing needs and have 
money left for their other necessities. They now feel the need of per- 
sonal accounts as proofs of their daily or weekly expenditures for clothing. 

These lessons afford opportunity to use the socialized recitation. For 
example, a group of girls may be responsible for reporting data on sen- 
sible heels for shoes. The others, including the instructor, note the main 
facts presented by the chairman. The discussion leader finds the girls 
eager to tell vital points that may have been omitted or inaccurately 
stated. One test of the value of such an estimate of the wardrobe may 
consist in having the girls assemble a suitable wardrobe covering a period 
of possibly two years ; another, the evidence of improvement in the per- 
sonal appearance of the girls, showing an application of the principles 
of art, economics, and personal hygiene. 

Evaluation of the necessary food intake confronts the girls. They 
need milk, vegetables, fruit, grain products, and fats; meat, fish and 
sugar are optional.^ Most girls will eagerly determine whether they are 
underweight. Where time is limited, direct information on the variety, 
amount, and cost of food is needed. Habits of choosing nourishing 
foods are to be developed. A brief survey of some home economics 
college seniors proved that they had not formed the habit of the 
daily selection of adequate food in relation to its variety, amount, and 
cost. These students were asked to make food charts, listing in detail 
the varieties under each main division, and recording daily the variety, 

* How Can Our Work in Foods be Made More Vital to the Health of the Child. Lucy 
H. Gillett, Jour. Home Econ., Sept., 1920. 



248 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

amount, and cost of their food intake. Such charts may include a record 
of the number of meals eaten per day and the time spent in consumption. 
Again, personal accounts serve as proofs of the daily expenditure for 
food. The simple "food intake" cards are being used successfully with 
younger girls. Since good health depends not alone on intelligent food 
habits, other items may be added to the cards, for example, the number 
of hours for sleep, recreation, and work; the daily bath, the daily evacua- 
tion, the daily water intake For if a girl is to make her limited allow- 
ance of wages cover her necessities she must develop good health habits 
in order to reduce the amount spent for medicines and doctor's services. 
Good health habits may also increase the girl's producti^dty. 

Girls may have to consider expenditures for housing facilities. What 
kind and how much does a girl need? Alinimum standards call for a 
portion of a simple, sanitary, and artistic bedroom, and a proper recrea- 
tion unit aside from the bedroom. Storage space is a welcomed asset. 
Evaluation of the bedroom equipment may be developed and recorded 
on cards in the same detailed manner as the necessities of the wardrobe. 
This method of evaluating bedroom furnishing may be appHed to all 
household furnishings. Light, heat, ventilation, and proximity to the 
school or work are essential considerations. Theoretical knowledge of 
taxes, mortgages, and other business transactions may be considered 
under the investment factor. 

Girls' running expenses may cover a wide range of items, such as car- 
fare, postage, cleansing materials, and cosmetics. Again they will need 
to weigh values based upon kinds, uses, amounts, cost. For example, 
an analysis of the selection of cosmetics revealed the need for reappor- 
tioning expenditures for the quantity and kinds formerly thought neces- 
sary. Data for the running expenses may likewise be kept on cards. 

When girls have completed their first estimates for their clothing, 
food, shelter, and running expenses, they invariably find that they do not 
have an adequate amount left for the last factor — "greater happiness," 
or advancement. They find that they must go over their record cards 
for each dixision of their income and apply the elimination or reduction 
process, cutting down on the amount and kinds of different commodities 
formerly felt to be indispensable. Several revisions are needed to pro- 
\-ide the desirable balance. Expenditures for "greater happiness" are 
partly determined by the influence and economic status of the community. 
It is necessary to obtain a basis for discussion by having the girls keep a 
record, for some weeks previous, of the amounts expended for church, 



1921] TRAINING GIRLS AS CONSUMERS 249 

savings, educational advancement, and recreation, including movies, 
parties, and ball games. The amount spent for recreation is usually 
out of proportion to the amounts set aside for church, savings, thought- 
fulness toward others, and education. A girl who has worked hard to 
revise her ideas of the amount and kind of commodities she needs and 
can afford, in order to have a balance left for "greater happiness," is 
usually keen to analyze and revise her expenditures for recreation. 
Attention drawn to the provision of recreation for the mother often in- 
creases the girl's zeal in investigating kinds of wholesome recreation that 
are possible without excessive cost. Wisely selected reference and illus- 
trative materials are needed. Cooperative contacts with church, 
business, and educational and social organizations are indispensable in 
helping girls to evaluate the constituents of "greater happiness." These 
contacts should provide opportunities for the girls to participate in the 
acti\dties of these organizations as well as to receive information from 
the leaders of these community assets. Again the card system is effec- 
tive for recording data for each topic considered. For example, the topic 
of investment will necessitate a card record for each investigation made, 
such as data on banking facilities, building and loans, bond issues. 

Laborious methods of keeping personal accounts defeat their own 
purpose. Daily expenditures for commodities may be jotted down, at 
the time of purchasing, on a small card kept in the girl's pocket book. 
These items may be totalled daily or weekly on a summary card ruled 
so as to cover a record of a month's expenditures. A simple summary 
card may contain one column for the days of the month; several 
columns with self explanatory headings, covering the girl's classified 
needs, e.g., room rent, food, clothing, laundry, traveling expenses; a 
column for daily totals; and one for all money available. Girls need 
considerable assistance in forming the important habit of systematically 
balancing these accounts at definite intervals. For upon this factor, 
that is, checking the leaks, rests one of the greatest benefits of account 
keeping. By analyzing the total expenditures under each main heading 
and comparing them with amounts set up by statisticians as being in 
correct proportion to the total budget, the girls are stimulated to de- 
crease expenditures for personal purposes and increase the amount for 
savings and thoughtfulness toward others. 

We all realize that women are taking their places in the world in ever 
increasing numbers; that they need a strong background in economics 
to support their ever increasing responsibilities. Since the girls are 
our women of tomorrow, let us avail ourselves of every opportunity for 
affording them this \'ital economic foundation. 



250 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS ijune 

THE SCHOOL PROJECT^ 

HELEN C. GOODSPEED 
Slate Supervisor of Home Economics, Madison, Wisconsin 

It has been said that home economics is an ideal "project subject," 
that it lends itself readily to this method; nevertheless we approach the 
subject as warily as teachers of other subjects, and it takes a real jolt to 
startle us mto the realization that we need to change our point of view. 

The jolt has come gradually through the realization of the facts that 
much that is taught in the schools fails to carry over into the lives of 
the girls whom we teach; that the enrollment in our high school classes 
has been, in many cases, on the decrease in the last few years; that the 
aims set dowm by educators somehow fail to reach and influence every- 
day teaching. 

The project is far from being a remedy fo^ all our ills but it is fair 
to say that good project teaching, consistently dominating class-room 
procedure, has a very definite influence on these conditions, for good 
project teaching demands contact with the home. Home projects 
become by-products of school projects. Project teaching meets the 
matter of the decrease in enrollment by demanding a careful study on the 
part of administrators of the particular interests and instincts of girls 
at different ages. It broadens and enriches our aims by virtue of being 
a project, in the sense that is meant by those educators who say that 
the project aims to produce indi\aduals who are able to meet life situa- 
tions adequately. 

I like to think of the project as a point of view. When our teachers 
of home economics grasp the spirit of project work it will be unnecessary 
to seek for definitions. The idea is flexible and allows for interpretation, 
the various interpretations depending upon the personality and type 
of mind of the teacher and her students. 

If we are going to approach our work from this point of view an entire 
reorganization is necessary in our thinking. The child, rather than the 
subject matter becomes the center of interest; and we use our logical 
outline to keep us on the track as it were, and to safeguard minimum 
essentials. 

The following projects have been carried on with varying degrees of 
success in Wisconsin: 

' .Abstract of address at the meeting of the .\merican Home Economics Association held 
in connection with the Division of Superintendence, X. E. A., Atlantic City, Feb., 1921. 



1921] THE SCHOOL PROJECT 251 

A seventh year project: "A Saturday morning project." To find out 
the best and quickest ways of doing those things on Saturday morning 
which are our share in the business of homemaking. 

An eighth year project: To ascertain whether or not the girls in this 
class are eating the right kind of food, and to plan and prepare whole- 
some meals for eighth grade girls. 

A ninth year project: To determine the minimum amount that is 
needed per day in this town to feed a family of four consisting of father, 
mother, a boy of 12, and a girl of 14. 

A tenth year project: To make a two weeks' study of the best way to 
put on a successful school lunch in this school, and to put our plans into 
practice during the months of December, January, and February. 

J. A. Moore gave the following test of a project in a recent number 
of School and Society: "A project expresses a felt need growing out of 
the environment. It recognizes the native instincts and interests of 
the pupils. It calls for related material. It provides for organization 
on the part of the student." 

Our child-care project, "What must a seventh grade girl know about 
the mental and physical care of the child in order to take care of her baby 
sister," measures up to the test in this way: It meets a felt need grow- 
ing out of the environment, in that most seventh grade girls have little 
brothers and sisters at home, or occasionally help a neighbor by caring 
for the baby. It recognizes the instincts and interests of the pupils 
because these girls are near enough to the doll stage to be intensely in- 
terested in babies and their care. The problems discussed from day to 
day call for related material from various fields, child psychology, 
citizenship, social relationships, and social hygiene. That it provides 
for organization on the part of the student is shown by the following 
story: 

A seventh grade student reported in class one day that the w^oman who 
lived next door to her did not know howto bathe her baby. "She justputs 
her in the tub and splashes water on her," the child continued in a shocked 
voice. Several days later she brought the matter up again in class, 
saying, "that woman moved away from our street and I got to thinking 
how badly she bathed her baby, and I just went dowTi and showed her 
how." 



252 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Qune 

THE m^GIENE OF WOMEN'S UNDERWEAR^ 

FLORENCE CATON 
University of Missouri 

Owing to the lack of reliable data on the hygiene of clothing, the fol- 
lowing experiments, on the conduction of heat by textile fibers and the 
relative rate of absorption a. d evaporation of water, have been made to 
substantiate or disprove the theories regarding the influence of weave 
and fiber on the hygienic qualities of certain fabrics. 

Stockings were selected as the material to be tested because these 
were available in several fibers in the same weight and weave. In the 
experiments showing variation in the proportion of two mixed fibers in 
a fabric and the influence of weave in the same fiber, bags were made 
of the materials used. 

The method of procedure was as follows: Hot water was poured into 
bottles which contained 1000 cc. The stockings or bags were placed on 
the bottles and were held tight to the necks of the bottles with elastic 
bands. One uncovered bottle was used in each experiment as a check. 
Rubber corks, through which thermometers were run, were fitted into 
the bottles and the temperatures were taken at fifteen minute intervals. 

In the experiment performed to compare the rate of heat conduction 
of fabrics made from different fibers, stockings of wool, silk, and cotton 
in both heavy and light weights were used. The bottles were of uniform 
size, and the area covered on each bottle was 100 square inches. The 
weight of the material actually covering the bottles was ascertained, 
and the number of holes per square inch of material were coimted under 
the microscope. The experiment was performed three times with water 
of different temperatures. The results showed hea\'y wool to be the 
poorest conductor of heat, then fight wool, heavy silk, fight silk, heavy 
cotton, and light cotton in the order mentioned. 

Heat is lost more rapidly on a cold day than on a warmer one, since 
on a day with a temperature of 12°C. it took only two hours and forty- 
five minutes for water of 78°C. to reach 41°C., and on a day of 18°C. 
it took three hours and forty-five minutes for water to drop from 84°C. 
to 41°C., or three hours and fifteen minutes from 78°C. to 41°C. It 
took forty minutes longer for heavy wool to reach the same temperature 
as cotton. This emphasizes the necessity for dressing warmer on a cold 

^ Summary of experiments reported at the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association, Colorado Springs, June, 1920. 



1921] HYGIENE OF WOMEN'S UNDERWEAR 253 

day in order to maintain a constant body temperature when heat is 
being lost rapidly. The small serrations on the surface of the wool 
fiber make it possible for wool in some weaves to entangle a large amount 
of atmospheric air, which is a non-conductor. The fibers with the 
smoother surfaces are better conductors of heat. 

Since ventilation will hasten heat loss, an experiment was performed 
to compare the relative rate of heat conduction of silk and cotton in 
mo\dng air. The materials used were silk and cotton stockings of the 
same weight and color. The experiment was performed according to 
directions given previously for the experiment on heat conduction. In 
addition, the bottles covered by the silk and the cotton stockings, and 
the check bottle were placed in a row two feet in front of an electric 
fan. The experiment was performed three times. The results showed 
that heat was lost more rapidly by silk than by cotton when the sur- 
rounding air was in motion. The conclusion may be reached that 
cotton would afford more protection on a windy day than silk, for the 
silk fiber has a smoother surface than the cotton fiber, and mo\ing air 
can fan through the meshes of silk more easily than through cotton. 

To compare the effect on conduction of heat by the variation in pro- 
portion of two mixed fibers in a fabric, the materials tested were flannel 
composed of all wool, two-thirds wool and one-third cotton, and one- 
third wool and two-thirds cotton. The experiment was performed three 
times with water at different temperatures. The results showed all 
wool flannel to be the poorest conductor of heat, then flannel of 
two-thirds wool and one-third cotton, then flannel of one-third wool 
and two-thirds cotton. The value of flannel in the retention of heat 
varies with the amount of wool present. The flannel containing the 
largest per cent of wool is the warmest. 

To show the influence of variation of weave with the same fiber, 
the plain weave, knit weave, and basket weave in cotton were selected, 
as they are the weaves used in underwear. The experiment was per- 
formed three times with water at different temperatures. The plain 
weave is the poorest conductor of heat, then the knit weave, then the 
basket weave. This shows that material which is woven in such a 
way as to have open air spaces is a good conductor of heat. If the air 
spaces are not open, but are more or less covered with interlacing threads, 
atmospheric air is entangled in these spaces and this makes the garment 
a poor conductor of heat. If the material on the bottles had been cov- 



254 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

ered with a thin layer of closely woven cloth, the results would have 
been reversed, as the larger spaces would have held more air and there- 
fore the material would have been a poor conductor of heat in proportion 
to the air held. 

In order to determine the relative rate of absorption of water by 
different fibers, and the relative rate of evaporation of water from these 
fibers, experiments were made with wool, silk, linen, and cotton, using 
materials of as nearly the same weight and weave as possible. These 
were cut into wicks 3 inches long and 1 inch wide. 

Water was put into beakers so that the distance from the water to 
the tops of bulbs of thermometers suspended above was 1| inches. 
The wicks were sewed on the bulbs of the thermometers and the ends 
immersed in water. The time interval required for the water to reach 
the bulb was noted for each fiber; this showed the relative rate of 
absorption. From the time the wick was wet, the thermometer read- 
ings were taken at ten minute intervals for each of the fibers, so that the 
relative rate of evaporation of water could be ascertained by the lowering 
of the temperature. The experiment was performed three times. Water 
evaporated most quickly from linen, then silk, cotton, and wool. 

The linen absorbed water most rapidly and the water evaporated 
from it most rapidly, lowering the temperature. This shows that linen 
is the coolest material in dry climates. Wool absorbed water very 
slowly and water evaporated from it slowly. This shows that wool is a 
warm material to wear. Silk and cotton, which absorb water at a 
moderate rate, are suitable materials for ordinary conditions. Of these 
two fibers, cotton is more practical as it is not so expensive as silk and 
is more easily cleaned. 

The rate of absorption for the part of the wick sewed tight on the 
bulb (I inch) was much slower than that from the water to the bottom 
of the bulb (1 inch). This would indicate that perspiration is not so 
readily absorbed by tight clothing as by loose. 

Another experiment was made to show the relative rate of evaporation 
of water from textile fibers and the consequent lowering of temiperature. 
Wool, silk, cotton, and linen of as nearly the same weight and weave as 
possible were made into bags. 

The method of procedure was the same as in the experiment on con- 
duction of heat. Then the experiment was repeated, using the same 
bags, and water of the same initial temperature. Burettes containing 



1921] MAKING DOUGHNUTS OF LOW FAT ABSORPTION 255 

water of the same temperature as that in the bottles were suspended 
above the bottles, and the stopcocks were so regulated that water 
dropped at intervals of two seconds on the bottles under the coverings. 
The results showed that the water in the bottles was cooled faster 
when water was dropped from burettes on the bottles than when it was 
not. They also showed, by the lowering of the temperature, that water 
evaporates most quickly from linen, then silk, cotton, and wool. The 
lowering of temperature was noticeable soonest in linen and last in wool, 
which shows that linen is the coolest material to wear and wool the 
warmest. Conduction is less in wet goods than dry. Since the water 
in the bottles cooled in ten minutes less time when water was dropping 
from burettes, it seems probable that heat was lost by conduction as 
well as by evaporation. The coverings presented very nearly the same 
area of surface exposed to unsaturated air, and for this reason evapo- 
ration would be approximately uniform no matter what the material. 



EXPERIMENTS IN THE MAKING OF DOUGHNUTS OF LOW 

FAT ABSORPTION^ 

MINNA C. DENTON AND LOUISE B. PRITCHETT 
Experimental Kitchen, Office of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture 

PART I 

How much fat should a pound of dough reasonably be expected to take 
up in frying? Numerous experiments performed in the Experimental 
Kitchen of the Office of Home Economics in which batters and doughs 
were fried in deep fat under varying conditions, show that the fat absorp- 
tion varies greatly in amount upon various occasions. Twenty pounds 
of dough may be so made up and fried as to take up ten pounds of fat in 
frying, or so made up and fried as to take up only one pound of fat. The 
fat absorption of the average homemade doughnut of good quality lies 
between these two extremes. 

^ Published by permission of the Secretary of Agriculture. 

This is the second report from the Experimental Kitchen laboratory on the subject of fat 
absorption during frying in deep fat. See Journal cf Home Economics, March, 1920, for 
first report. 



256 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

Can a good quality of homemade doughnut be made which will be 
low in fat? This is a question of interest to many who profess a fondness 
for doughnuts, crullers, fried cakes, or fritters, yet who often find the 
excess of fat in such foods difficult to digest — if not to pay for! 

This article reports experimental work in the frying of doughnut 
mixtures under varying conditions with especial reference to securing a 
product of low fat absorpt: m, which shall yet be tender and have good 
keeping qualities. 

Since it was shown by the work of Miss McKee,^ and fully confirmed 
by our experiments reported in the Journal for March, 1920, that the 
fat absorption is increased by increase of fat and sugar in the dough, 
the attempt was made to develop a doughnut containing a low amount 
of fat and a fairly low amount of sugar that would yet retain the desirable 
quaHties of the homemade doughnut. 

"Standard" recipe 

This mLxture was adopted as a control for comparison with other experimental doughs; 
but the term "standard" was not intended to denote superior quality of product, since the 
product resulting from other formulae was often preferred to this one. 

By weight 
Ingredients By measure grams 

Sugar 1 cup 200 

Butter 2 teaspoons 10 

Eggs 2 96 

Milk 1 cup 244 

Flour 5^ cups 580 

Baking powder 4 tablespoons 36 

Salt 1 teaspoon 5 

Cinnamon 1 teaspoon 2 

Nutmeg \ teuspoon \\ 

An amount of baking powder equal to one-sixteenth of the weight of 
the flour was selected as the measure for the standard recipe; this cor- 
responds to about 2 teaspoons (level) of baking powder for each cup of 
flour. When a smaller quantity of baking powder (cream of tartar type) 
was used, the doughnuts showed a slightly lower fat absorption per unit 
weight of dough, but the volume and texture were not so good. No 
further experiments with different brands or amounts of baking powder 
were undertaken. 

The average absorption of doughnuts made by this formula, fried (as 
soon as possible after mixing) for 3 minutes at a temperature of 185°C., 
turning each doughnut at least once during frying to insure equal brown- 

* Fat .Absorption in Frj'Lng Doughnuts. Mary C. McKee, Jour. Home Econ., Jan, 1918, 



1921] MAKING DOUGHNUTS OF LOW FAT ABSORPTION 257 

ing of both sides, was 24 per cent. This figure is obtained by dividing 
the amount of fat absorbed during frying by the weight of the dough 
before frying. The fat content of a single "standard" doughnut of 35 
grams weight after frying was about 8 grams, or about two-thirds of a 
tablespoon. These figures, however, as well as the time of frying, can 
easily be varied by changes in manipulations, or by changing the size 
and shape of the doughnut. 

Manipulation. Standardization of size and shape. It was found that 
in calculating fat absorption on a small number of doughnuts, such as a 
single frying of four or five, any marked deviation in size and weight of 
the doughnuts caused a variation in the absorption of fat. It was hardly 
fair, for instance, to compare on the same basis a lot of four doughnuts 
weighing 153 grams with a lot weighing 109 grams, since the amount 
of surface exposed to the fat was greater in proportion to the total weight 
in the doughnut of low weight. One method used to overcome this 
diflSculty consisted in a rigid standardization of size, shape, and weight. 
The dough was patted or rolled to 3^ inch thickness on a molding board 
in a frame designed for this purpose, and then cut with a doughnut 
cutter 3 inches in diameter with a center hole of V/i inches diameter. 
Great pains were taken that the doughnuts should not stick to the board, 
or stretch out of shape during handling. The doughnuts were fried in 
lots of four; each doughnut was required to weigh not more than 34 grams, 
nor. less than 30 grams before frying, and was rolled to approximately 
the same thickness and shape. 

This rigid standardization of shape, size, and weight of the doughnuts, 
while intended to give a fair basis for comparison, nevertheless, as might 
be expected, did not produce a doughnut of uniformly good quality. 
Furthermore, it was found that the first doughnuts fried out of a given 
lot of dough, viz., those in which the dough had stood for the shortest 
possible time and had received the least possible manipulation, attained 
a consistently higher absorption of fat, along with a greater tenderness 
of texture, than was the case with those from subsequent rollings of the 
same dough. 

When working for strictly comparable results, it was often a practice to 
allow all doughs to stand for two hours after mixing and before rolling 
in order to do away with deviations due to the ''ripening" of the dough 
in case of the last batch, which must stand a few minutes while the first 
batch is being rolled and fried. If all the dough stands for a considerable 
period, the influence of these few extra minutes of waiting is negligible. 



258 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

The doughnuts, which upon weighing were shown to be either too heavj'- 
or too light to conform with the standard, had to be returned to the batch 
of dough and again rolled and cut. Sometimes this necessitated three 
or four rollings. The dough which received this additional handling 
showed always a lower fat absorption than the dough more lightly- 
handled. This accounts in part for the deviations in fat absorption, 
which are so often noticeabl' in different lots of the same batch of dough 
fried under otherwise similar conditions. 

In order to do away with the deviations due to overhandling, strict 
comparisons as to the effect of varying ingredients could be made only 
between those doughnuts which had not been rehandled in any way. 

A second method used when attempting to secure fairly comparable re- 
sults; or, the "home method." In order to obviate so far as possible these 
two causes of variation (overhandling and ripening of the dough) the 
whole batch of dough, made from about 10 ounces of flour (half of the 
formula given above), was weighed and rolled quickly to uniform thick- 
ness; the doughnuts were cut and fried without further effort to secure 
a standardization of the size and weight of each doughnut. The amount 
of fat absorbed was then estimated on the whole quantity of dough fried. 
Often 16 or more doughnuts (4 fryings or a greater number) were es- 
timated as one lot. The per cent of fat absorbed did not differ greatly 
from the results obtained by averaging the absorption of the first frying 
with the later fryings of a given lot of dough. The weight of six dough- 
nuts, selected at random from a lot which had been cut and fried as above, 
varied from 41 to 51 grams each (weight after frying); but such dis- 
crepancies in weight of the individual doughnuts are presumably "evened 
up" when a large number are estimated as one lot. Furthermore, this 
method of work has the advantage of simulating closely the methods 
used in the average household, where, as a rule, extra manipulation of 
the dough is carefully avoided. 

A record was kept of the length of time and the conditions under which 
the dough stood before frying, the time ranging from the very brief in- 
terval which would necessarily elapse between making and frying, when 
working rapidly up to the extremely long interv^al of 24 hours. As a rule 
the doughnuts were strictly standardized with respect to size, weight, 
and the number fried at a time, four constituting one lot. In very few 
cases were fewer than four doughnuts fried at a time; and in a number 
of cases (experiments 18 to 20 E and 22 to 26) the "home method," de- 
scribed in the preceding paragraph, was used. In some of the experi- 



1921] 



MAKING DOUGHNUTS OF LOW FAT ABSORPTION 



259 



merits the dough stood at room temperature, but in other tests, as noted, 
it was kept in a refrigerator. In only three of the experiments reported 
in the table (experiments 15, 16, and 17) were the doughnuts kept sub- 
merged. 

Duplicate tests do not invariably show close correspondence in figures 
for fat absorption, in case of doughnuts, because of the difficulty of se- 
curing comparable shape, size, and weight, without overmanipulation, 
as mentioned above. It is, therefore, necessary to repeat experiments 
a number of times and to vary them in many different ways, before 
definite conclusions can be drawn. In the course of over two hundred 
experiments in which many different recipes were tested, certain standard 
proportions were selected (as explained above) as a basis for comparative 
tests. Only those tests in which all data were strictly comparable (con- 
sequently only a few series from the total number of series) have been se- 
lected for the tables given below. Lack of space prevents the presenta- 
tion of so large an amount of experimental data as would be included 
if we gave the results of our tests with all the recipes we have tried. 

TABLE 1 
Summary of certain data obtained when frying doughnuts, selected as being strictly comparable 



RECIPE AND PROCEDURE 



Standard proportions: (see p. 
256)'' 

Experiment 1" 

Experiment 2 (average of 5) . 

Experiment 3 

Experiment 4 

Experiment 5 

Standard proportions soft wheat 
flour: 

Experiment 6 (average of 2) . 

Experiment 7 (average of 5) . 

Experiment 8 (average of 2) . 

Ex-periment 9 

Experiment 10 

Experiment 11 

Standard plus 224 grams hot 
riced potato: 

Experiment 12 

Experiment 13 

Standard plus 224 grams potato, 
100 grams sugar: 

Experiment 14 (average of 2) 



TIME DOUGH 
STOOD^ 



hours 



At once 

2 

2 

Overnight 



At once 
2 

Overnight 



23 


a 

a 

H 


deg. C. 


minutes 


185 


3 


185 


3 


170 


3 


205 


2 


185 


3 


185 


3 


185 


3 


185 


3 


210 


2 


185 


3 


185 


3 


185 


3 


185 


3 


185 


3 






W Q 

o d 
'£ " 



per cent per cent 



3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
3.0 



3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
3.0 



2.5 
2.5 



2.4 



23.0 
21.6 
22.0 
15.0 
10.0 



24.5 
21.6 
18.0 
14.0 
22.0 
10.0 



17.0 
20.0 



23.5 



^3 



per cent 



13.0 
12.4 
12.0 
10.0 
14.0 



13.0 
12.4 
11.0 
12.0 
10.0 
13.0 



15.0 
20.0 



20.0 



per cent 



23.0 
22.0 
22.0 
17.0 
13.0 



24.0 
22.0 
19.0 
16.0 
22.0 
13.0 



19.0 
22.0 



24.0 



260 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



TABLE I— Continued 



RECIPE AND PROCEDURE 



Standard plus 224 grams potato; 
fried submerged : 

Experiment 15** 

Standard plus 224 grams potato; 
fried submerged : 

Experiment 16 

Standard; fried submerged: 

Experiment 17 

Standard; fried by "home meth- 
od" (see p. 258): 

Experiment 18 

Experiment 19 

Experiment 2C* 

Standard proportions soft wheat 
flour: 

Experiment 21® 

Standard; yeast instead of bak- 
ing powder; kneaded slightly; 
fried by "home method:" 

Experiment 22* 

Standard (baking powder) plus 
224 grams potato; kneaded 
slightly; fried by "home 
method:" 

Experiment 23* 

Standard minus 100 gram s sugar; 
fried by "home method:" 

Experiment 24 

Experiment 25 

Experiment 26 



TIME DOUGH 
STOOD* 



hours 



At once 



At once 



3h 



At once 



At once 



22 



deg. C. 

205 

185 
185 



185 
185 
185 



185 



185 



185 



185 
185 
210 






S^ 



percent 
2.5 

2.5 
3.0 



3.0 
3.0 
3.0 



3.0 



3.0 



2.5 



3.6 
3.6 
3.6 



n ui 
< a 



per cent 
10.0 

12.0 
13.0 



22.0 
17.0 
10.0 



S^ 



per cent 

10.0 

13.0 
10.0 



14.0 
20.0 
18.0 



sis 

« 5 n 
P« B g 

H§3 



16.0 


13.0 


7.0 


9.6 


13.0 


13.0 


18.0 


18.0 


10.0 


12.0 


11.0 


9.0 



percent 

12.5 

15.0 
15.0 



23.0 
20.0 
14.0 



18.0 



10.0 



15.5 



21.0 
13.0 
14.0 



* In experiments 5, 7, 10, 11 and 14 the dough was kept in a refrigerator before fr>-ing; 
in all other experiments, at room temperature. 

*> Unless otherwise stated, hard wheat flour was used in all the experiments reported. 

* Four doughnuts weighing 30 to 34 grams as dough were fried at a time in experiments 
1 to 12, 14 to 15, and 18; three doughnuts in experiment 13; and nine to sixteen in experi- 
ments 17 to 20 and 22 to 24 inclusive. Four doughnuts were fried in experiment 16, but they 
were not of standard weight. 

•^ In experiments 15, 16 and 17 the doughnuts were kept submerged during frying; in 
all other cases they were allowed to float after coming to the top. 

* In e.xperiment 21 part of the dough was overmanipulated; in experiments 20, 22 and 23 
it was kneaded slightly. In all other cases it was manipulated uniformly according to stand- 
ardized procedure. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

BOTULISM AND HOME CANNING^ 
Foreword 

minna denton 

Botulism ("sausage poisoning") was first studied in Germany, and 
was supposed to be due solely to the eating of meat which had spoiled 
as a result of the growth of the Bacillus botulinus. A few years ago, 
American bacteriologists, who were studying the subject of food poisoning 
in our western states, found that Bacillus botulinus develops in canned 
vegetables, and even in canned fruits, as well as in sausage or in canned 
or brined meat. It has been shown also that there are two different 
types of Bacillus botulinus, which are known as Type A and Type B, 
respectively; and that Type A is highly resistant to heat, since its free 
spores require to be boiled for five hours or to be heated for 40 minutes 
at 105°C. (220°F. or 5 pounds of steam pressure), or to be heated for 
at least 6 minutes at 120°C, (about 250°F. or 15 pounds pressure), 
before they are killed. 

It appears that the Bacillus botulinus is rather widely distributed 
throughout this country, for it has already been isolated from foods 
which were grown for the use of animals or of man in at least a dozen 
of our states, about half of which are east and half west of the Missis- 
sippi River. Certain areas in the West, however, have been much 
oftener afliicted than other states. It has been found on a number 
of kinds of agricultural products, and the claim has been made that 
it is a soil organism. However, there seems to be little danger of botul- 
ism except from preserved foods which are stored for some days, or 
weeks, under such conditions that the air is excluded from all or from 
a part of the food mass. This condition affords the Bacillus botulinus 
spores their opportunity to grow, for they are anaerobic and do not 
grow in the presence of free oxygen. Botulism has resulted from the 
ingestion of contaminated ham. pickled or brined and eaten without 
cooking; olives, brined and underprocessed ; sausage, eaten raw or 

^ Printed by permission of the Secretarj' of Agriculture. 

261 



262 THE JOimNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS IJunC 

undercooked; cheese (cottage); tamales, presumably undercooked; some 
other spoiled meat products, notably underprocessed canned meats or 
animal tissue products, such as bottled clam broth; canned fruits in 
some instances; and, in a number of cases, canned vegetables, including 
both home-canned and commercially-canned products. String beans, 
asparagus, and olives have been oftener implicated than other vege- 
tables; although peas, con, beets, spinach, white ("navy") beans, 
apricots, and one or tv/o other fruits have also been accused as causes 
of botulism, in a number of instances, with very good evidence to sup- 
port the accusation. 

Dickson reports that up to June 30, 1920, he had counted 54 out- 
breaks of botuKsm in this country, affectin .>; 228 persons altogether, 
over two-thirds of whom have died. Besides that, he has records of 
22 outbreaks of botuKsm which affected fowls ("limber neck" of chick- 
ens); and several cases of forage poisoning of horses and stock have 
been considered identical with botuHsm. 

It must be remembered, however, that, although these figures are 
doubtless far short of the actual occurrence of botulism, which has not 
been widely recognized by physicians in this country until very recently, 
yet they represent an absolutely insignificant fraction of the consumers 
of caimed goods. By way of illustration, it may be remarked that, 
if death or injury from automobile accident were so rare as to be head- 
lined throughout the press of the country each time such events occur, 
perhaps such headlines would arouse panic and cause the sale of auto- 
mobiles to stop altogether for some months, thus paralyzing the industry! 
For it is the rare arid unfamiliar forms of sickness and death of which 
we are in terror, rather than their usual well-known forms which we 
are so much more likely to encounter. 5; 

Fortunately, the poison or toxin of Bacillus botulinus is easily 
destroyed by boiling, even though the spores are not. This does not 
w^arrant us in boiling spoiled food and then consuming it, for we are 
not certain that some of these heated spores, which have not been 
killed, might not grow in the body and ultimately produce poisoning, 
particularly if they are found in very large numbers. The history of 
botulism investigations, however, encourages us to believe that this 
could hardly be the case in food containing so few bacteria that it does 
not appear spoiled to the sense-perceptions of the average person. 



1921 J BOTULISM AND HOME CANNING 263 

Below are quoted the opinions of bacteriologists responsible for recent 
investigations of botulism that show that there are three precautions 
which should be taken by the home canner who wishes to be reasonably 
sure of avoiding the possibility of botulism, even though she cannot 
at the present time be absolutely certain that the heating process she 
uses will "strike in" to the center of the can or jar soon enough to kill 
all highly resistant spores, in case such should be present. 

1. Use none but clean, sound, perfect fruits and vegetables, free 
from blemishes, when canning. 

2. Give the contents of the can or jar a thorough inspection at the 
time of opening. Use the senses of sight and smell first, the sense of 
taste last. 

3. Heat thoroughly all caimed vegetables which appear sound and 
wholesome, so that the entire mass comes to the boiling pomt, before 
tasting. Even if you are using the caimed string beans or asparagus 
for salad, do not omit the heating process. Boil for five minutes. 

Botulism^ 
ernest c. dickson 

"The temperature of boiling water is not sufficiently high to ensure 

destruction of the spores It is obvious that many of the 

m.ethods employed in preserving food, particularly the home-canning 
methods, are inefficient if spores of the more resistant strains of Bacillus 
botulinus happen to be contained within the can 

"There has been some difference of opinion as to whether food which 
contains the botulinus toxin is always so spoiled as to readily attract 
the attention of the one who opens the container. It is probable that 
there is always more or less marked evidence of spoilage in food con- 
taminated with B. botulinus toxin, but it is wrong to believe that it is 
always very evident. In the laboratory I have seen a few cans of 
vegetables which had been experimentally inoculated in which there 
was no macroscopic evidence of spoilage and in which but little odor 
could be detected, although they contained a virulen toxin, but in 
the majority of cases the signs of spoilage were very marked and the 
odor was offensive. However, there are many instances on record 
in which the housewife who opened the jars of vegetables could not 
determine that the food was spoiled, even after she had smelled and 

2 Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, Nov. 1920, p. 865. 



264 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

tasted it, although her subsequent ilhiess and death were e\adence that 
the toxin had been present in considerable amounts. In some instances 
the offensive odor was not noted until the food became heated during 
the process of cooking, and there are several instances in which the 
persons who ate the food as salad with salad dressing did not notice 
anything unusual in its taste or odor. It cannot, therefore, be stated 
that only food which is oV^viously unfit for consumption is liable to 
contain the botulinus toxin, but it should be emphasized that any 
preserved food which shows the slightest signs of spoilage should be 
discarded without being tasted, and should not be left where human 
beings or domestic animals or fowl may have access to it. The toxin 
of B. botulinus is destroyed by heat, and if canned food is thoroughly 
heated through after it is removed from the container, all danger of 
botulinus poisoning will be removed. It may be added that there are 
few, if any 'ready to serve' canned foods which are in any way damaged 
by being boilea and, if necessary, cooled before they are eaten." 

Botulism ant) Its Relation to Canned Food^ 
charles thom 

Mycologist, Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture 

The Microbiological Laboratory of the Bureau of Chemistry has 
been investigating the subject of food poisoning for several years. 
Food poisoning appears in general in two forms, the fatal form which 
has been given a great deal of public attention on account of outbreaks 
invohdng the deaths of groups of persons and has become well knowTi 
imder the term "botulinus poisoning" or more accurately ''botulism;" 
and second, the enteric type of poisoning in which the number of persons 
affected is very much greater but the death rate is very much less. 
This type of poisoning involves a very large percentage of the popula- 
tion at one time or another, the total of deaths perhaps exceeding that 
of botulism, but the percentage of fatal cases is so small as to excite 
less comment than the terribly fatal form which has been so widely 
recognized in recent years. 

Confining, therefore, our discussion to botulism and its relation to 
canned goods, the general status of the investigation may be discussed 
under three heads, the responsible organism, the method of canning, 
and the precautions to be observed in eliminating the trouble. 

' Printed by permission of the Secretary of Agriculture. 



1921] BOTULISM AND HOME CANNING 265 

The responsible organism. The responsible organism is known as 
Bacillus botulinus, an anaerobic bacterium belonging to the group 
producing putrefactive odors. This organism is widely distributed in 
nature and accompanies many other organisms as contaminations in 
various food stuffs. It has apparently been the cause of the death of 
a great many domestic animals which have died of the disease known 
as forage poisoning. It is not, therefore, limited in its occurence to 
canned goods. The poison itself (toxin) is produced by the growth of 
the organism in the foodstuff. The organism can be filtered out of the 
foodstuff, and leave the toxin at its full virulence. This toxin is readily 
destroyed by heat so that if the entire mass is brought to the boiling 
point it will no longer produce the ordinary symptoms of botulism. 
Some strains of the organism, however, produce resistant spores which 
are not killed by ordinary boiling and which when fed in mass caused 
the death of experimental animals. 

The method of canning. The relation of this organism to canning 
lies in the fact that a properly prepared can of food is free from air; 
therefore becomes a favorable medium for an anaerobic organism. The 
cooking to which the can is subjected destroys all of the miscellaneous 
organisms which may be initially present, leaving only the spores of 
species (such as this one) which are capable of withstanding the heat. 
The resulting can is, therefore, an exceptionally good incubator for 
Bacillus botulinus and its toxin. No system of canning thus far devised 
has been perfect enough to insure sterility of every can. The amount 
of heat used may not be sufficient in some cases. Imperfections in the 
apparatus, jars, cans, and gaskets, and in the variable human factor 
involved in the operations of canning account for the loss of a small 
percentage of the product, no matter how carefully the particular can- 
ning rules chosen are followed. This applies both to home and to 
commercially canned goods. The purpose of canning is to keep food 
from spoiling; and it must be frankly recognized that a certain per- 
centage of goods is likely to spoil, no matter what the method used. 
Since it is impossible to guarantee that every can will keep and since 
it is impossible to tell you which spoiled can is dangerous, the canner 
must recognize the spoiled can as a legitimate loss which must not be 
salvaged for human food. 

Precautions at the time of opening canned food. Now, how are we to 
detect this dangerous can? Spoilage in the can is recognized in various 



266 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

ways. In tin the most prominent evidence is a swelled can. A normal 
can shows both ends depressed, due to a partial vacuum. Most forms 
of decomposition involve the production of gas which relieves the 
vacuum first and then produces internal pressure, forcing the ends of 
the can outward ("swell"); or causing a leak at some of the joints, so 
that the jar or can when examined is seen to be under pressure or to 
have become a "leaker" as shown by the stain on the label or discolora- 
tion at some of the seams. This may frequently be detected by the 
occurrence of bad odor at the discolored or suspected places in the 
unopened container. The odor of a spoiled can when opened is usually 
characteristically offensive in some form. The odors to be recognized 
vary from merely sour to actually putrid types. The contents of the 
can may or may not show disintegration, that is, evidence of breakdown 
of texture. Some of the most dangerous and offensive forms of spoilage 
show comparatively little change in the texture of the products within 
the can. Other forms show very extensive disintegration. In cases 
of spoilage the liquor is usually cloudy or turbid. 

The person who opens a can of food should, therefore, give heed to 
the appearance of the unopened can, and to the odor and consistency 
of its contents before even tasting the product. If the can is obviously 
sound and the odor and appearance of the product characteristic for 
the particular foodstuff, it has been found safe to taste. If the taste 
is true lo the product canned, it is safe to serve for human food. 

It must be admitted that there is a vague possibility that dangerous 
food wiU pass such inspection as this, but such inspection would have 
ehminated the food actually responsible in every case of death from 
botulism in which the Bureau of Chemistry has actually obtained the 
product responsible. 

Further, in many cases in which we have not actually had the material 
responsible for the death of the individuals, the records of the cases 
show that the spoiled nature of the food consumed was known at least 
to some of those who handled the product. This has been conspicu- 
ously true in some of the most recent cases involving the death of a 
considerable number of persons. We therefore feel justified in advising 
(1) that spoiled food he discarded, not salvaged and eaten; and (2) that 
the evidences of spoilage in so far as they involve danger of botulism 
are easily enough detectable to justify the statement that the person 
who opens the can is responsible for the destruction of its contents. 



1921] TEA 267 

TEA^ 

SUSANNAH USHER 

{Concluded'^) 

TEAS OF CHINA, FORMOSA, AND JAPAN 

The teas of China, Formosa, and Japan have a number of points in 
common which makes them fall naturally into the same group. 

The tea is raised for the most part by natives on small plots of ground. 
The tea plants are of common Chinese origin and after a quiescent 
winter period they send forth their new leaves. These are picked in the 
spring in April or the first of May, according to the season. A second 
picking takes place in summer, and a third picking is sometimes made 
in the autumn. 

The teas from these countries always undergo a preliminary manu- 
facture which is carried out by the natives with primitive utensils and 
by time-honored slow hand processes. This preliminary treatment is 
sufficient for home consumption, but if the teas are to be exported they 
are further treated or re-fired in "hongs" or "firing go-downs" so that 
they can stand long voyages without deterioration. 

These native hand methods of manufacture and the final re-firing in 
hongs are supposed to be the main elements in producing teas which 
have the following characteristics: good keeping qualities; fine delicate 
flavor and aroma; mellowness instead of pungency. 

Japan teas are practically all of the green variety. Only small amounts 
are manufactured in imitation of blacks and oolongs. 

The Japan teas are peculiar to themselves. The good grades are 
needle-shaped and well curled, with a clear, bright Hquor of greenish- 
yellow color. They are delicate and mellow in flavor. The infused 
leaf is thick and soft. 

Formosa Oolong. Soil, climate, growth, and peculiarities of manufac- 
ture all contribute toward making Formosa oolong tea unique in flavor 
and aroma. 

Although Formosa has been a part of Japan since the Chinese- Jap- 
anese War, its teas are in a class by themselves. 

In China and Japan the early pickings make the best teas but in 
Formosa on account of its cHmate the summer pickings, if the season 
is favorable, are more highly prized for their fine flavor and body. 

' Copyright, 1921, by the American Home Economics Association. 
*The first installments appeared in March and April. 



268 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

Formosa oolong teas have a crapy appearance, and are evenly curled. 
The color of the dry leaf is brownish with some olive green tinge, and 
often grayish tips are present. Gray tips to some extent are seasonal 
as they are more numerous in teas made from summer leaf. These tips 
make an attractive looking tea but the quality of the tea must be judged 
by the cup test which decides the important points of strength and 
flavor. The wet leaf is green with brown edges. The flavor and aroma 
are delightfully aromatic. The color of the liquor is golden, and a good 
quality is bright and clear. 

Scented teas called pouchong are also made in Formosa. They are 
made from the poorer quality teas and are scented with the blossoms of 
jasmine and gardenia. These blossoms are mixed with the tea and 
allowed to stand until the right amount of perfume has been imparted 
to the tea; the flowers are then removed and the tea fired at a low 
temperature. 

These teas ixe too strongly scented to use alone, but a small amount 
may be used in blends. 

China teas are divided into green, oolong, and black. The green teas 
usually found on the market are gunpowder, imperial, young hyson, 
and hyson. 

In the manufacture of green tea, oxidation is stopped at once by 
steaming or heating in hot pans. Consequently, these teas contain 
more tannin than black teas and are green in color. 

Oolong teas are allowed to undergo some oxidation during the wither- 
ing process before the cells are ruptured by rolling. These teas stand 
between green and black tea in their characteristics. 

Black teas undergo some oxidation during withering and roUing, but 
for a period after roUing oxidation is especially encouraged, as it makes 
a dark-colored tea containing a minimum of tannin. 

The green China teas of good quality make a Hquor that is light in 
color. Sometimes a light straw color, with an aromatic and pungent 
flavor. 

The China oolongs are not imported in large quantities. The 
Foochow oolongs are "flavory" and mellow and make an infusion that 
is a beautiful golden color. 

The Canton oolong which comes in bundles is often found in the 
Chinese quarter. It is of poor quality, the higher quaHty being packed 
in cans. 



1921] TEA 269 

The black teas of China comprise North China congous, South China 
congous, and souchongs. In this market the congous are usually known 
as EngHsh breakfast teas. The North China congous are considered the 
finest. They are known by the districts in which they are grown. The 
South China congous are not so fine as the North China. They are 
much used in blends. Souchongs are not imported in large quantities. 

ICED TEA 

Not all teas are suitable for iced tea. Some, especially high quality, 
heavy bodied India teas grow thick on cooling, which does not make 
them attractive for iced tea. If you are uncertain about your tea, try 
out several samples, i.e., brew them and let them cool. Reject those 
that grow milky. Congous, oolongs, Ceylon, and various blends are 
good for iced tea. 

The tea may be brewed and strained hot onto cracked ice and served 
at once; or it may be strained and allowed to cool before serving. It 
will be clearer if not cooled in the refrigerator. 

Various adjuncts are served with iced tea, such as sugar, cloves, 
lemon, orange, pineapple, strawberries, or mint. If several fruits are 
added it should be called a tea punch. 

JUDGING TEA 

After manufacture, the following points are taken into consideration 
in judging the quality of tea: tips; twist or make; presence or absence 
of stalk or black leaf. 

The pungency, body, and color taken together make what is called 
strength. The pungency of the tea is due to the tannin bodies. Too 
much tannin makes the liquor unpleasantly bitter and astringent, but 
too little tannin makes it dull and flat. The flavor and aroma of the 
tea are associated with the volatile oil present in the tea. 

Body or fulness is a variable quality which is thought to be asso- 
ciated with the total soluble matter, as tannin and mucilaginous con- 
stituents. 

Color is due largely to the oxidation products of tannin, which accounts 
for the dark color of black teas. 

As caffeine is not acted upon during manufacture and does not vary 
sufficiently to make a chemical examination essential when commercial 
value is estimated, tea tasters do not take this element into account. 



270 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

THE GOVERNMENT TEA BOARD 

In 1920 the following standards were established by the tea board: 
(1) Formosa oolong (used for Foochow and Canton oolong) ; (2) congou; 
(3) Ceylon (used lor India, Java, and Sumatra); (4) gunpowder, green; 
(5) young hyson, green; (6) Japan, pan-fired; (7) scented orange pekoe 
(used for capers); (8) scented Canton. These standards are for the 
use of tea examiners who are stationed at each port of entry. They 
are not verbal standards, but are cans of tea, each can representing the 
lowest grade which will be passed by the United States examiner. 

All tea entering the country is tested by the examiners for quality 
of dry and infused leaf and for artificial coloring and facing. As color- 
ing and facing are used to give a better appearance to the leaf, their use 
is discouraged. Talc, gypsum, and similar substances are used for 
facing, and Prussian blue and indigo for coloring matter. 

"During the fiscal year 1920 a total of 96,862,858 pounds of tea was 
examined. Of this a total of 145,246 pounds, or 0.15 per cent, was 
rejected; 1,592 pounds on account of impurities, and 143,654 pounds 
because not equal to the Government standards with respect to quality." 

TEA BLENDING 

Tea blending is an art that needs the attention of an expert. 

Blake says, "Teas of different kinds are blended for the purpose of 
producing results in the drink which cannot otherwise be obtained, and 
should it be possible, as it frequently is, to obtain a more satisfactory 
tea at a lower cost, then a double object has been attained. The several 
flavors of the different kinds of teas which constitute a well selected or 
happy blend unite, and, in their union, produce a pleasing effect. One 
of the grades or kinds, we will say, possesses delicacy of flavor in a 
marked degree; another good body; a third aroma; a fourth strength; 
then the combined whole, if not interfered with by an injudiciously 
selected ingredient, will create a blend which wiU produce a drink that 
will have flavor, body, aroma, and strength in correct and happy pro- 
portions." 

STORING TEAS 

If tea is not tightly covered, the volatile oil which gives tea its flavor 
and aroma evaporates; tea also absorbs moisture and odors and soon 
deteriorates. 



1921] TEA 271 

Tea should be kept in a cool dry place tightly covered from the air. 
A tin receptacle with a tightly fitting cover is to be recommended. A 
small canister should be kept for daily use so that the large canister 
may be kept closed as much as possible, as a large bulk of tea keeps 
better than tea in small packages. 

In general it may be said that a high quality tea made from young 
leaf will keep its flavor longer than the same kind of tea made from 
older leaf. The tight roll which the soft young leaf takes in manufac- 
ture is one reason for its good keeping quaHties. 

The teas of China, Japan, and Formosa keep fresh somewhat longer 
than the teas of India, Ceylon, and Java. Ceylon and Java teas are 
especially apt to lose their fragrance, but all teas "go off flavor" after 
their first season and do not grade so high as the "new season" crop. 

REFERENCES 

The Cultivation and Manufacture of Tea in the United States. U. S. Dept. Agr., Bureau 

Plant Industry, Bui. 234, 1912. 
Tea Hints for Retailers. John H. Blake. The Williamson HaflFner Engraving Co., Denver, 

1903. 
Factors that Constitute Values in Tea. Jour. Soc. Chem. Ind. (London), Vol. 28 (1909), 

p. 285. 
The Manufacture of Tea. Sawamura. 8th International Congress of Applied Chemistry, 

Vol. 18, p. 313. 
Chinese Yearbook. 
Tea. Edith Browne. London, 1912. 

The Book of Tea. Okakura-Kakuzo. Duffield and Co., New York, 1906. 
Food Inspection and Analysis. L. E. Leach. Wiley & Sons, New York, 1920. 
Beverages and their Adulterations. Harvey W. Wiley. 1919. 
Tea and Coffee Trade Journal, 79 Wall Street, New York. 
Bulletins of the Imperial Institute. London, especially 1913. 
Report on the Tea Industry of Java, Formosa, and Japan. A. C. Kingsford and M. Kel- 

wayBamber. "Times of Ceylon" Press. 1907. 



EDITORIAL 

Why go to Swampscott? Three arguments usually combine to 
bring members to the annual meetings of their organizations: first, the 
program and the new faces and theories which it presents; second, 
enjoyable and profitable contact with those who are doing work similar 
to one's own; and third, the chance of a good time "on the side." The 
purpose of this article is to urge every member of the American Home 
Economics Asssociation to consider all three reasons before she decides 
against going to the Fourteenth Annual Meeting at Swampscott. 

Any one who knows the success of the February meeting at Atlantic 
City, is ready to trust Dr. Blood's comm.ittee to provide a program in 
which the various phases of home economics work will all be represented 
but which will at the same time give a sense of general unity and bal- 
ance, — one from which a few famous lions will roar engagingly and dur- 
ing which the most modest among the members may have a comfortable 
chance to air her \iews in general discussion. 

The faithful attendants at Association meetings know the manifold 
advantages of coming into personal relations with their home economics 
colleagues, but these may not be so plain to the new recruits and the 
habitual stay-aways. It is not merely that one meets those whose 
names are familiar in books and journals and college catalogues but 
that from chance chats one learns much of the general drift of pro- 
fessional thought, the consensus and variations of professional opinion, 
and the sources of the best professional influence. Moreover as one 
joins in the discussions, the voting, and the informal give-and-take of 
talk about headquarters, one comes to feel oneself an integral part of 
an influential organization with a vital share in shaping its policies. 
We are sometimes told that home economics workers are handicapped 
by a lack of professional spirit. Is there any better way to develop a 
professional spirit than to spend a few days as an active part of our 
largest professional group? 

As for the good times "on the side" at Swampscott, every one who 
knows New England knows how many people year after year bear 
testimony to the delights of the famous North Shore, its cool ocean 
272 



1921] EDITORIAL 273 

breezes, its fine bathing, its picturesque rocks and smooth beaches, and 
its wealth of historical and literary associations. Among its hotels the 
New Ocean House ranks high in comfort, and convenience. Boston is 
less than an hour away, with good train and trolley service, so that day 
and half -day excursions to town can be easily arranged. The local 
committee is plaiming trips of special professional interest to such 
Boston institutions as the Nutrition Laboratory of the Carnegie Insti- 
tution, cafeterias and hospitals, textile collections in the Museum of 
Fine Arts, Simmons College, the Women's City Club, and Denison 
House Settlement. 

Information will be available at the New Ocean House as to how one 
may best visit such points of general interest as the Boston Public 
Library with its famous frescoes by Sargent, Abbey, and Puvis de 
Chavannes, the Old North Church and Burying Ground, with their 
colonial and revolutionary traditions, or Harvard University, and the 
interesting houses of Cambridge. 

On the coast, four miles south of Swampscott, is Nahant, formerly 
the summer home of Longfellow, Motley, and Prescott, and now that 
of Senator Henry Cabot Lodge; while not much farther to the north 
are Salem and Marblehead, both full of historic interest, with old-time 
homes furnished as in the days when the East India trade flourished, 
and giving to their visitors a vivid idea of former manners and customs. 
To a student of household arts a visit to those open to the public and 
to the museum at Salem is worth more than hours of reading; and 
how about buying a "Jim Crow" in the shop of the House of Seven 
Gables, now faithfully restored? Scattered along the roads are many 
tea-houses, interesting both for their location and for the different types 
of management they represent. 

Longer trips by train or motor may be arranged through well-known 
suburbs to Concord and Lexington, with their battle monuments and 
their associations with New England Hterature, or southward to Ply- 
mouth, which is just as interesting as last year though the tercentenary 
crowds are gone. Northward one can visit Gloucester perhaps going 
one way by the shore boulevards through Beverly, Pride's Crossing, 
Manchester, and Magnoha, where beautiful modern homes vie in allure- 
ment with the shops of famous city firms; and the other way by inland 
roads and country scenery; and if one has a whole day one may stop in 
Gloucester, long enough to visit the artist's colony and the gallery on 



274 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

the moors of Cape Ann, watch the yachts in the harbor, and possibly 
catch the flavor of the modern fishing trade by a \isit to a canning 
factory. 

To make sure that every one gets a sample of these possibilities, the 
Cormnittee has included on the program arrangements a general picnic 
supper on the beach, one general sight-seeing trip in town, and a 
motor trip to Gloucester. 

Undoubtedly it costr. money to come to the meetings, but remember 
that they are at a time when many of us need a change and cooling off 
and when they can be combined with the Fourth of July holiday. 
Moreover, if one considers the three kinds of satisfaction that they 
may give, is not the real question, ''Can I afford not to go?" 

H. W. A. 

TENTATIVE PROGRAM 

Fourteenth Anxual Meeting 

AMERICAN H0:ME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

New Ocean House, Swampscott, Massachusetts, June 27-30, 1921 

M0NT>AY, JUXE 27 

10.00 a.m. Council Meeting 
2.30 p.m. Opening Session. Mary Sweeney, President, presiding 

The American Home Essential to the Maintenance of American Ideals 

Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean Emerita, Simmons College 
The Necessity of the Extension of Home Economics Teaching 

Payson Smith, Commissioner of Education, Massachusetts 

8.00 p.m. General Session, with the New England Home Economics Association. 

Antoinette Roof, presiding 

The Place of the Nutrition Worker in the Health Program 

Bailey B. Burritt, General Director, Assn. for Improving the Condition of the Poor 
Home Economics Women and the Press 

Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University 

TUESDAY, JUNE 28 

Professional trips in the morning 
2.30 p.m. Extension Section. Madge Reese, presiding 

Reasons for Rapid Development of Home Demonstration Work 

Margaret A. Ambrose, Asst. Director Home Demonstration Work, Knox\ille, Tenn. 

Marie Sayles, State Home Demonstration Agent, Ohio 
How Club Work Prepares Giris for Earning a Livelihood as well as for Womanhood 

Elsie Trabue, State Leader of Girls' Clubs, Connecticut 

Jane S. McKimmon, State Home Demonstration Agent, North Carolina 



1921] PROGRAM OF FOURTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING 275 

Advanced Plans for the 1921 Home Demonstration Program of Work 

Ida S. Harrington, State Home Demonstration Agent, Rhode Island 
Laura F. Neale, State Home Demonstration Agent, Texas 

Committee's Report " Training and Maintenance of Home Demonstration agents" 

2.30 p.m. Round Table, Committee on Teaching. Henrietta Calvin, presiding 

Experiments in Coordinating Plome Economics Instruction with Home Life Experience 
Etta Flagg, Supervisor of Home Economics, Public Schools, Los Angeles 
Edna Groves, Supervisor of Home Economics, Public Schools, Portland 
Helen Lee Davis, Professor of Household Arts, Oregon Agricultural College 

Teaching Foods in Rural Schools 

Cara Harris, Supervisor of Home Economics, Shelby County, Tenn. 

Problems in Continuation Classes 

Ellen Miller, Merrill-Pahner School, Detroit, Mich. 

Committee Report on Essentials of Equipment and Rooms for Teaching Home Economics 
Mrs. Calvin, U. S. Dept. of Education 

5.00 p.m. Picnic Supper 
8.00 p.m. General Session. C. F. Langworthy, presiding 

The Need of Further Investigation of the Effect of Commercial and Household Processes 
on the Vitamin Content of Foods 
John R. Murlin, Chairman Committee on Research in Human Nutrition, National 
Research Council 
The Present Dye Situation 

F. E. Breithut, Calco Chemical Company, Bound Brook, N. J. 
Plans for Textile Research under the National Research Council 

Miriam Birdseye, Chairman Textile Standardization Committee 

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 29 

Sight-seeing and professional trips in morning 
10.00 a.m. Council Meeting 

Meeting of Federation of Home Demonstration Agents of the North Eastern States. Tem- 
porary Chairman, Mrs. Margaret Robinson Ellison, Waltham, Mass. All Home 
Demonstration Agents attending the conference are invited to attend this meeting. 

1.00 p.m. Luncheons 

Omicron Nu: Reser\'ations should be made as soon as possible with Marion S. Van Liew, 

359 State St., Albany, N. Y. 
Phi Upsilon Omicron: Reservations should be made as soon as possible with Jessie \Vhitacre, 

Box 203, Logan, Utah 

2.30 p.m. Textile Section. Agnes H. Craig, presiding 

How Can Home Economics Aid in Training the Textile Chemist? 

Elizabeth Weirick, Textile Testing Laboratory, Sears, Roebuck Co. 
The High School Clothing Course 

ZcUa E. Bigelow, University of Idaho 



276 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [junC 

Extension Work in Clothing 

Doris Schumaker, Cornell University 
A Clothing Facts Bureau 

Ada Blanchard 
Report of Committee on Standardization of Textiles 
The Status of Legislation 

Helen Goodrich, Michigan Agricultural College 
Further Data on Purchasing Habits 

Ethel Phelps, University of Minnesota 
Petticoat Test 

Ellen Beers McGowan, Teachers College, Columbia University 
Research on Minimum Standards 

Grace Denny, University of Washington 

2.30 p.m. Round Table, Social Service Committee. Lucy Gillett, presiding 

Training for Nutrition Work in Social Serv'ice 

A. The Advisability of Having in the Training: 

1. Methods of Teaching 

2. A Social Point of View. Margery Smith, Dietetic Bureau, Boston 

3. A IMedical Point of View. Margaret Sawyer, Director Nutrition Service, 
American Red Cross 

B. Subject Matter. Report from the New York Nutrition Council 

8.00 p.m. General Session. Mary Sweeney, presiding 

The Future for Home Economics Women in Institutional Administration 

Mary A. LLndsley, Manager Grace Dodge Hotel, Washington, D. C. 
Industrial Opportunities for Training for Women 

Mary Anderson, Director Women's Bureau, U. S. Dept. of Labor 
Food Supply and Demand 
Mrs. Edward P. Costigan, League of Women Voters 

THURSDAY, JUNE 30 

9.30 a.m. Science Section. Minna Denton, presiding 

Topic: Brief Reports of Recent Research 

Development of Research Problems from the Field of Experimental Cookery. Various 
Methods of Approach 

Day Monroe, Department of Foods and Cookery, Teachers College, New York 
An .Account of a Specific Research Problem 

Mary Barber, Department of Foods and Cookery, Teachers College, New York 
The Organization and Possibilities of Cooperative Research in Colleges 

Walter H. Eddy, Professor of Physiological Chemistry, Columbia University 
The Basal Metabolism of Women and Underweight Children 

Katharine Blunt, Chairman Home Economics Dept., Univ. of Chicago 
Emulsification in Mayonnaise 

Kenneth L. Mark, Professor of Chemistr>', Simmons College 
The Carbon-Dioxide Diffusion Ratio in Doughs as an Index of Flour Strength 

Mildred Weigley, Head of Home Economics, University of Minnesota 



1921] PROGRAM OF FOURTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING 277 

Influence of Pressure Cooker on the Vitamin Content of Foods 

Louise Stanley, Head of Home Economics, University of Missouri 

Studies of the Bacterial Flora of Home Canned Vegetables 

Harold L. Lang, Professor of Bacteriology, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pitts- 
burgh, and Specialist in the Office of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 

List of Mimeographed Abstracts Presenting Graduate Work in Home Economics during the 
Current Year 
C. F. Langworthy, Chief of Office of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 

9.30 a.m. Institution Economics Section. Octavia Hall, presiding 

The Housing and Feeding of Groups of Women 

A. College Students. Flora Rose, Cornell University 

B. Working women 

Plans for a New Women's Club House in Boston. Florence B. Child, Execu- 
tive Organizer of the Durant Incorporated, Boston 

The Industrial Cafeteria 

E. H. Ansell, Luncheon Manager, New England Telephone and Telegraph 
Company, Boston 

9.30 a.m. Round Table. Vocational Committee. Alice Loomis, presiding 

Probable Topics: 

The Relation of the Supervision of Smith-Hughes State Work to the Supervision of 

Other Home Economics State Work 
Should a Teacher of Vocational Home Economics in Day Schools be Trained along 

All Lines of Household Activities? 
Part-time and Evening Classes 

2.30 p.m. Business Meeting 

8.00 p.m. General Session 

Home Demonstration Work: A Permanent and National Contribution to American Edu- 
cation 

O. B. Martin, Assistant in charge of Demonstration Club Work, Office of Exten- 
sion Work South 
The Place of Boys and Girls' Club Work in Extension Education 

George E. Farrell, In charge of Boys and Girls' Club Work, Office of Extension 
Work North and West 



The Hospitality Committee is making definite arrangements for the following trips. An 
information desk will furnish details and will help in planning other sightseeing or profes- 
sional trips that individuals or small groups may wish to take. 

Tuesday morning 

Professional trips: 

Peter Bent Brigham Hospital and Children's Hospital. Inspection of Wards and 

Kitchens. In charge of Helen C. Reilly, State Department of Health 
Women's City Club and Filene's Restaurant. Inspection of Food Service. In 

charge of Amy Fackt, Women's Educational and Industrial Union 
Boston Museum of Fine Arts. Textile and Tapestry Corridors and Textile Study 

Room, with decent service. In charge of Ella Spooner, Simmons College 



278 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

Denison House. Folk Handicraft Guild. In charge of Abby Spear, Simmons 

College 
Carnegie Nutrition Laboratorj-. In charge of Marger>' Smith, Dietetic Bureau 
Fors\-th Dental Infirmar>'. Research Department. In charge of Mrs. Alzira 

Sandwall, State Department of Public Health 
Junior E.xtension Work. A demonstration of home economics club work in Wakefield. 
In charge of Mrs. Ellison, Home Demonstration Agent, Middlesex County. 
Plans for these trips must be made on Monday. People who expect to arrive late but 
wish to be included in one of the T"esday morning trips are asked to notify, in advance, the 
Chairman of the Hospitality Committee, Jeannie Kenrick, 41 Eliot Memorial Road, Newton, 
Mass. 

Tuesday 5:00 p.m. 

Picnic supper at PhilHps Beach. Hostesses, Mrs. Melville Eastham and Mrs. Emily 
Hawes. For guests registered at the hotel a picnic supper will be provided by the 
hotel in place of the regular meal. For other guests the hostesses will arrange for 
supper, either through the hotel or otherwise. 

Wednesday morning 

Sight-seeing and professional trips: 

Historic Boston: North End, Old North Church, Old South Meeting House, Faneuil 
Hall, The Fenway. In charge of Susie Sprout, Brookline Schools 

North Shore: Salem, Marblehead, Beverly, Manchester-by-the-Sea, Gloucester. In 
charge of Helen Lockwood, Framingham Normal School 

Simmons College, State Dept. of Public Health, Dietetic Bureau, Women's Educa- 
tional and Industrial Union, Beverly Health Center, may be visited with guides. 

Thursday — late afternoon 
Boston Floating Hospital. In charge of ^larger}' Smith, Dietetic Bureau 



Reservations at the New Ocean House should be made directly with the manager. The 
rate of $7 to $9 per person, per day, American plan, two people in a room, has been offered 
by the management. This is an exceedingly generous offer, and members of the Association 
are urged to register, so far as possible, at headquarters. A limited number of rooms at a 
SI or $2 rate are available in private houses and small boarding houses in Swampscott and 
Lynn. Information about these may be obtained from Mrs. ^lelviUe Eastham, 2 Prescott 
Street, Cambridge, ^Massachusetts. The hotel griU room, with a reasonable a la carte 
service, will be open at the time of the convention. A selected list of hotels and boarding 
houses on the North and South shores has been prepared by the Hospitality Committee for 
the benefit of members of the Association who may msh to prolong the holiday in New 
England. Mrs. Eastham will be glad to give information in advance or at the time of the 
meeting. 

Members arrix-ing with baggage should take a train stopping at Swampscott (25 min- 
utes from Boston) where trains are met by the hotel motor. Train service is more fre- 
quent to L>'nn, which has a 20 minute troUey car connection with Swampscott. Trains 
leave the North Station, Boston, via the Boston and Maine Railroad. The Boston Chamber 
of Commerce has organized a Tourist Department to aid summer travelers and is making 
every effort to secure tourist rates. It seems improbable, however, that these will go into 
effect this summer because of the precarious financial condition of the New England railroads. 



1921] OPEN FORUM 279 

OPEN FORUM 

To the Journal of Home Economics : 

I was very much interested in the articles by Michael Davis, Jr., and Bertha 
M. Wood in the December and January Journals. I feel that there is a great 
need for definite, correct information which will help, not only the home 
economics teacher in her work with groups of foreign people, but also the 
social worker". I am, as you know, working with Jewish people constantly; 
hence I will be very grateful if you will correct certain minor inaccuracies in 
the part of the paper pertaining to the diet of the Jews. The paper is so well 
written that I hesitate to draw attention to these errors, but there are suf- 
ficient restrictions in the Jewish diet without adding some that are nonexistent. 

The article classifies fish with meat. This is incorrect. Fish is a neutral 
and may be eaten with milk; in fact it is often cooked with milk. I should 
feel handicapped, indeed, were this impossible. Since fish is a neutral, it may 
be eaten at the same meal with meat, but when this is done fish is generally 
used as an entr^. 

The article further states that cereals are not cooked for breakfast because 
it takes too long to "kosher" them. Cereals do not require "koshering." 
During the summer months, when there is danger of maggots and worms 
getting into the cereal, it must be looked over quickly by "placing it in a hot 
plate." If the cereal is infested, the insects will not be able to resist the heat, 
and wiU crawl out. The process never takes much more than the time it 
requires to heat the plate. "The length of time it takes to kosher cereals" is, 
therefore, not the reason why Jewish mothers do not cook cereals for break- 
fast. Many mothers do not like to get up early enough to cook them, for 
they do not realize the value of cereals as a breakfast food, but a great many 
mothers do cook them. In addition to the cereals mentioned in the article, 
farina, wheatina, and all the other wheat preparations on the market are used 
in great abundance when available. 

One other error is that borsch (borscht) is referred to as "like our vegetable 
soup." Borsch is a dish usually made of beets, cabbage, or tomatoes. It is 
made by the addition of some onions and usually "sour salt" (critic acid). It 
is in this latter respect not at all "like our vegetable soup." Lest teachers 
make the mistake of recommending it without knowing of the addition of 
this acid, I draw attention to it here. Borscht is sometimes also made of 
sorrel served cold with sour cream and chopped hard cooked eggs. The Jews 
of some districts serve boiled potatoes with borscht, but this is by no means a 
general practice. 

Mention is also made of tripe as not available for use in the Jewish diet. 
This is a mistake. Tripe if secured from a kosher animal in a kosher market 
is not only usable, but is used a great deal. 

Mary L. Schapirg. 



280 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

A Method of Collecting Data on the Home. In speaking before 
women's clubs and other groups the writer has found it an interesting 
de\'ice to send about in the audience a schedule of inquiries on some 
simple point regarding household management which can be answered 
readily by those present, and then collect the data before the meeting 
adjourns, summarize it, and present the facts to the audience. By 
placing the inquiry in the f'^rm of a schedule on which the person answer- 
ing has simply to place a check mark opposite the item which represents 
her answer, a considerable number of rephes can be quickly secured. 
Duplicate copies of the schedule can, of course, be used in various parts 
of the audience. At a meeting of the New Haven Women's Club, in 
November, 1920, a schedule regarding the approximate monthly food 
cost per person was thus sent about. Out of twenty-one reports the 
lowest was $13 per person per month, and the highest $40 per person 
per month, and the "mean" (or that number such that equal numbers 
of the group spent respectively less than the sum and more than the sum) 
was found to be $23. Reducing this to a per capita per diem figure the 
minimum food cost was 40 cents per person per day, the maximum $1.30, 
and the mean 75 cents. At a New York suburban club the figures 
ranged from 58 cents to $1.83, with the mean at $1. These were largely 
servant-keeping families. Another schedule collected facts as to wages 
currently paid for laundresses. The schedule for this sort of inquiry can 
often be made up by placing in a column a set of figures representing 
various costs and then asking the persons to check opposite the cost 
which is closest to their own. 

Benjamin R. Andrews. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Home Economics in American Schools. By 
Mabel Barbara Triiung, and others, 
with collaboration of Harold Ordway 
Rugg. Supplementary educational mono- 
graph, published by The University of 
Chicago, December, 1920, pp. 122. $1.25. 
This monograph will prove especially ac- 
ceptable to those who are willing to put 
thought into the reading of it. As indi- 
cated in the introductory chapter, it is the 
purpose of the authors to report the findings 
of a survey of the status of home economics 
in the public schools of the United States. 
The "findings" present evidence of hetero- 
geneity in organization and content o' cur- 
riculum, teaching emphasis on information 
and technique rather than on powers of 
thinking and judgment, dearth of standard- 
ized scales and tests, and absence of a defi- 
nite and worthy program for curriculum 
making. 

The typical picture of work done in the 
public schools has been drawn from the 
analysis of several hundreds of courses of 
study in twenty-two states. The basic as- 
sumption in the study of textbooks currently 
used is that much of teaching is controlled 
by the textbook. These studies point to the 
imperative need for a thorough over-hauling 
of administration of courses that deal with 
food, clothing, and shelter, and the need of 
textbooks that will serve as a means whereby 
"understanding is developed." Conclusions 
founded upon data contained in the studies 
are effectively presented through figures and 
tables. 

The chapters dealing with Inadequate 
Purposes of Teaching and with New Purposes 
for Teaching set forth lack of clear statements 
of educational objectives and outcomes, and 
the need for the perfection of ability of 
critical judgment and abilities of appreci- 
ation. There might well have been further 
elaborated the perfection of those abilities 
in accordance with "how children learn." 



A suggestive program for the construction 
of the curriculum is concluded with facing 
the facts that, if home economics is to justify 
its position on the ground of intellectual 
value and social usefulness, it must be built 
on educational principles, and that, if we 
are to have a psychology of home economics, 
we ourselves must write it through our own 
"laborator3^" 

Not alone as a survey is the monograph 
of interest, nor should it be regarded as an 
isolated piece of work. Rather should it be 
accepted by the profession as a valuable 
preliminary step to the scientific study of 
education in home economics. 

Inga M. K. Allison, 
Colorado Agricultural College. 

Vocational Education. By David Snedden, 

New York: The Macmillan Company, 

1920, pp. 587. $2.75. 

This book discusses the fields of agricul- 
tural, commercial, industrial, and home- 
making education; their relation to general 
education; some of their special and future 
problems; and the administration of voca- 
tional education. Each field is discussed in 
separate chapters and other chapters are 
devoted to subjects of interest in the organi- 
zation of vocational education, which gives 
the impression that the book is composed of 
a collection of treatises on phases of voca- 
tional education interests. The author has 
spent many years in the study of vocational 
education in his effort to discover terminol- 
ogy that will be adequately understood. 

In the first chapter the meaning of voca- 
tional education is ver>' interestingly pre- 
sented. In characteristic style the defini- 
tions are stated clearly. This is of great 
advantage because there is no question left 
in the mind of the reader as to the author's 
point of view. Furthermore, it is shown 
that vocational education and liberal educa- 
tion differ in their aims even when the same 

281 



282 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



materials are used for both, and that the 
methods of presentation differ depending 
upon the aims of each. Some persons will dis- 
agree with the author in his view that, when 
vocational training is given, all thought of 
liberal education should be left for after work 
hours. The author believes that all voca- 
tional training should be intensive and given 
either while the worker is on the job or 
just preceding the acceptance of j. job. He 
labels all other methods "c.>!d storage" and 
questions their functioning ability. 

In the chapter on Vocational Homemaking 
the author urges, rightly, that a further 
analysis of the situation is necessary before 
undertaking to prescribe work in this field. 
The analysis of the home as given is some- 
what disconcerting because the income fig- 
ures quoted are several years out of date, 
but very good questions are raised concern- 
ing the necessity for the analysis of home- 
making conditions under different income 
situations, and adjustments are suggested 
which for the greater part have been neg- 
lected by the average home economics in- 
struction. Attention is drawn to the fact 
that "compositeness" is characteristic of the 
homemaker's job which for that reason is 
still very primitive in its organization. The 
analysis given of homemaking for a vocation 
and for general education is helpful, although 
in each case stress seems to be laid upon the 
technique and little space given to the con- 
sideration of the social graces of home- 
making. 

The criticism given that the interest of 
young women who come to evening schools 
"centers about cooking dishes suitable for 
parties" is surely obsolete. It is the e.^eri- 
ence of the reviewer that young women who 
have the initiative to attend evening school 
come with a better purpose in mind. 

The "case method" of approach, which is 
offered as a solution, is an excellent sugges- 
tion, but would be more valuable to the 
homemaking program if it were developed 
as a community study rather than as a study 
of individual cases. 

The suggested "project method" is evi- 
dently, according to the text, intended to 
mean what is generally given in home eco- 
nomics instruction as "home projects." 
This is confusing because of the similarity of 



terminology to the "project method" of 
teaching in general. 

In the chapter on the Probable Future of 
American Women a rather full account is 
given of the well-known conditions for 
women as they e.xist today, followed by a 
suggestion that the vocational training of 
women for the job and for promotion in the 
job would help solve the problem. 

The author raises a great many questions 
throughout the book which he does not at- 
tempt to answer and which to a large extent 
have no prospect of being satisfactorily 
answered. While he suggests few solutions 
for the problems which he states as existing, 
his premises are fundamentally correct, and 
the book is a very stimulating piece of work 
to those interested in the field of home eco- 
nomics either as a vocation or as liberal 
education. 

Helen Livingstoxe, 
Director Girls' ConiinualionSchools, Detroit. 

Chemistry for Public Health Students. By E. 
Gabriel Jones. New York: E. P. But- 
ton & Co., 1920, pp. 244. $2.50. 
This book, written by public health stu- 
dents of the University of Liverpool, de- 
scribes in excellent form methods for the 
analysis of materials which are likely to 
come into the laboratory of a Board of 
Health. These include milk, water, butter, 
other foods, beverages, water and sewage, 
air and disinfectants. The methods as given 
differ to some extent from those in general 
use in this country. Thus the book, excel- 
lent as it is, will hardly be of much service 
in training our students. 

John F. Xorton, 
University of Chicago. 

Sheila and Others: The Simple Annals of an 
Unramantic Household. By V.'^tfred 
Cotter. New York: E. P. Button & Co., 
1920, pp. 196. S2.00. 
A delightfully written account of the vari- 
ous employees of a Canadian household — 
the general helper, the furnace man, the 
laundress, and "others." Each chapter is 
an excellent character sketch, and under it 
all are many bits of true philosophy. The 
book is really a series of interesting short 
stories. Alice P. Norton. 



1921] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 283 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Cliildren's Bureau: 

Eighth Annual Report of the Chief. 

Child-Welfare Programs. Study Outlines for the Use of Clubs and Classes. Bureau Publi- 
cation No. 73. 

Industrial Instability of Child Workers. Bureau Publication No. 74. 

Infant Mortality. Results of a Field Study in Akron, Ohio. Bureau Publication No. 72. 
Results of a Field Study in New Bedford, Mass. Bureau Publication No. 68. 

A Summary of Juvenile-Court Legislation in the United States. Sophonisba P. Breckinridge 
and Helen R. Jeter. Bureau Publication No. 70. 

Issued by the U. S. Public Health Service: 
Keep Well Series: Bottle Feeding for Babies, No. 10; Breast Feeding Her Baby, No. 9; 

Motherhood, No. 3. 
Sanitary Disposal of Sewage Through a Septic Tank. H. R. Crohurst. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Agriculture: 
An Agricultural Almanac for 1921. Farmers' Bui. 1202. 
Baking in the Home. Farmers' Bull. 1136. 

The Farm Kitchen as a Workshop. Farmers' Bui. 607. (A re\'ision of a former bulletin.) 
Home Laundering. Farmers' Bui. 1099. 
House Cleaning Made Easier. Farmers' Bui. 1 180. 
Milk for the Family. Department Circular 129. 
Peppers. Department Circular 160. 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education : 

Administration and Supervision of Village Schools. Bui. No. 86. 

Development of Agricultural Instruction in Secotidary Schools. Bui. No. 85. 

The Eyesight of School Children. Bui. No. 65. 

Health Education Bulletins: Child Health Program for Parent-Teacher Associations and 
Women's Clubs, No. 5; Further Steps in Teaching Health, No. 6; Health Training for 
Teachers, No. 8; The Lunch Hour at School, by Katharine Fisher, No. 7; Summer Health 
and Play School, No. 3; Teaching Health, No. 4; Wanted — ^Teachers to Enlist for ChUd 
Health Service, No. 1. 

Health Education Charts: Class-Room Weight Record; Health Strength Joy; Right Height 
and Weight for Boys; Right Height and Weight for Girls; What is Health? 

Home Economics Courses of Study for Junior High Schools. Home Economics Circular No. 9. 

Joy and Health Through Play. George E. Schlafer. 

Lessons in Civics for the Three Primary Grades of City Schools. Teachers' Leaflet No. 9. 

Motion Picture Films of Educational Value. Extension Leaflet No. 2. 

The National Crisis in Education: An Appeal to the People. Bui. No. 29. 

The University Extension Movement. Bui. No. 84. 

Reorganization of Science in Secondary Schools. Bui. No. 26. 

Issued by Iowa State College, Ames: 
Care of Clothing. Cora Leiby. H. E. Circular No. 23. 
Food for the Family. Nell M. Barnett. H. E. Bui. No. 10. 
Home Millinery. Cora Leiby. H. E. Circular No. 22. 
The Hot Lunch for School Children. Nell M. Barnett, H. E. Circular No. 20. 



284 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

Pictures for the Home. Marion L. Tucker. H. E. Circular No. 21. 
Refinishing and Care of Furniture. Marion L. Tucker. H. E. Circular No. 19. 
Why Use Milk. Nell M, Bamett. H. E. Circular No. 18. 

Issued by the Federal Board for Vocational Education, Washington, D. C: 
Survey of Junior Commercicl Occupations. Bui. No. 54. 
Trade and Industrial Education for Girls and Women. Bui. No. 58. 
A Unit Course in Poultry Husbandry. Bui. No. 63. 

Issued by The .A.merlran Inititute of Baking: 
First Annual Report 1920. 

Plan for the Registration of Baking Materials. Bui. 4. 
Standards and Definitions of Food and Materials. Bui. 3. 
Studies on the Control of Rope in Bread. Bui. 5. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 

Adenoids and Arithmetic Board of Education, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Bibliography on the Care and Feeding of Infants and Children. Bureau of Child Hygiene, 
State Department of Health, Trenton, N. J. 

Bread— The V'tal Food. Claudia Q. Murphy, 41 Union Sq. W., New York. 

Canning and Preserving. University of Maine, Orono, Maine. 

Child Legislation in Iowa. Frank E. Horack. Univ. of Iowa, Iowa City. 

Connecticut Home Grown Foods. Buls. 22 and 24, July and August, 1920, Conn. Agr. College. 

Cosmetic Nostrums and Allied Preparations. American Medical Assn., Chicago. 

The Development of Research in the United States. James Rowland Angell. National Re- 
search Council, Washington, D. C. 

Elementary Embryology for High School Girls. Ann Criswell Arbuthnot. Board of Educa- 
tion, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Growing Sweet Peas. A. C. Beal. N. Y. State College of Agr., Cornell University, Ithaca. 

Heat Penetration in Processing Canned Foods. W. D. Bigelow. Research Laboratory, 
National Canners Association, Washington, D. C. 

Home Economics in Milwaukee-Downer College. Susan F. West. Milwaukee Downer Col- 
lege Bulletin, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Home Training Bulletins: A Better Crop of Boys and Girls; Teaching the Boy to Save; Teach- 
ing the Girl to Save; Training the Boy to Work. Wm. A. McKeever, Lawrence, Kan. 

How to Teach Canning and Jelly Making in Rural Schools. The Hampton Normal and 
Agricultural Institute, Hampton, Va. 

Material on Geography. Normal School Bui., Eastern 111. State Normal School, Charleston. 

Proceedings of the Joint Convention of the National Society for Vocational Education and the 
Vocational Education Association of the Middle West. Bui. No. 32. National Society 
for Vocational Education, New York City. 

Sixth Annual Report of the Visiting Housekeeper Association. Detroit, Mich. 

Standardization of Domestic Service. Reprint from the Labour Gazette, March, 1921. 

Suggested Budgets for Newlyweds. Home Economics Bureau, Society for Savings, Cleveland. 

Water-Soluble B in Cabbage and Onion. Bertha K. \Miipplc. (From Dept. of H. E., Uni- 
versity of Chicago.) Reprint from Jour. Biol. Chem. Vol. 44, No. 1, October, 1920. 

Whitewash and Cold Water Paints. Compiled by Tyrrell B. Shertzer. Bui. 304, National 
Lime Association, Washington, D. C. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

Oregon Agricultural College. The completion of the second unit of the home 
economics building^ at the Oregon Agricultural College is a big step in the development of 
home economics in the West and gives to the college one of the largest buildings of the kind 
in the United States. 

At the formal opening, March 11 and 12, a huge exhibit, featuring each of the fifty courses 
ofifered in the School of Home Economics and several of the allied courses of work on the 
campus, attracted and deepened the interest of students, graduates, parents of students, and 
other citizens of the state. The extensive presentation of the work of the school is indicated 
in the program, which is given here somewhat in detail because of its valuable suggestions 
to those interested in exhibits. 

The Nursery and the Play Room — Display of model nursery and playroom equipment; 
children of visitors cared for during e.xhibit hours. 

Child Nutrition Laboratory — Clinic for weighing and measuring children and for advice 
concerning malnourished children. 

"The Age of Innocence" — Showing of infant wear and accessories to the baby's toilet. 

The Tea Room — Where guests were served light refreshment. 

The Home and the Family — Graphic information concerning health, income, and 
management. 

The Housewife and Her Tools — A working exhibit of labor-saving devices. 

Light and Water for the Farm Home — A working demonstration by the farm mechanics 
department. 

Boys and Girls Club Work — Work in the state shown and e.xplained. 

Food Selection and Preparation — Various cuts of meat sho^-n and located by charts (ar- 
ranged by animal husbandry department); exhibit of foreign and domestic cheeses; exhibit 
of cereals and flours; demonstrations of canning and bread-making methods and products; 
illustration of adequate meals for families and individuals, especially children; tj-pes of 
school lunches. 

Home Nursing — Working e.xhibit of routine with patient; bandaging and emergencies. 

The Home^ Library — Good arrangement and good books shown by college library. 

The "Festive Board" — Types of table services and arrangement of fifty years ago. 

"Ye Olde Curiosity Shoppe" — Keepsakes of wearing apparel and household articles. 

"Art Panels from the Orient" — Display of oriental rugs; demonstration of weaving by 
native Armenian girl. 

The Art Department — Student's work in design and color as related to home economics. 

Good Taste in Home Furnishings — ^Arrangements of draperies, linens, and china. 

Clothing — Exhibits of dresses, suits, and WTaps appropriate for different ages and occa- 
sions; made-over clothes; exhibits of lace and furs. 

Fashion's Flower Garden — Fifty models dressed in simple attractive costumes made in 
the household arts classes. 

Suites of rooms, including living room, dining room, and kitchen, properly, economically, 
and artistically furnished for low and moderate incomes. 

College Practice House open to guests during entire time of the exhibit. 

^Anyone interested may borrow the plans of the three floors by sending 10 cents in stamps 
to the Journal Office. 

285 



286 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS I June 

The Constantinople Fund. The Constantinople Fund Committee has submitted to 
the Association a full report of funds collected. This report by states is published in the 
Bulletin, but the following summary is presented here for the benefit of the readers of the 
Journal, all of whom ;\-ill watch with keen interest Mrs. Norton's work in establishing the 
Department of Home Economics in the Constantinople College. 

SUMMARY OF FUND 

Amount contributed by educational institutions and organizations* $5,034.27 

International Institute of educat' m (paid directly to Mrs. Norton) 800.00 

Individual contributions** 708 . 75 

Ellen C. Richards Memorial Fund 200.00 



Total amount contributed $6,743.02 

*The organizations are home economics associations and clubs, teachers associations, 
and the home economics sororities Omicron Nu and Phi Upsilon Omicron. 

** This includes the amounts given by the two sororities in addition to their gifts 
through the states. 

REPORT BY DISTRICTS 

For Educational Institutions and Organizations 

District Allotment Amount received 

Eastern $1,800.00 $1,120. 79t 

Southern 800.00 873.05 

Central 1,600.00 1,531 . 29t 

West Central 900.00 467. 75t 

Pacific 700 . 00 1,034. 35 

Canada 200.00 7.04 



Total $6,000.00 $5,034.27 

t The $800 from the International Institute of Education should be added to this 
amount for the Eastern District, 
t Contributions are still coming in. 

The session of the National Academy of of proteins. Dr. F. G. Benedict gave an 

Sciences held in Washington, April 25 to illustrated account of taking skin tempera- 

27, was of unusual public interest because ture of pachyderms at the Bronx Zoological 

many of the speakers discussed problems of Gardens. Professor E. N. Thorndike of 

human life. Columbia University showed how the method 

Dr. Simon Flexner, dealt with epidemics of mental tests, hitherto used mostly in 

from the experimental side. Dr. Jacques detecting the feebleminded, may be extended 

Loeb, Head of the Department of Experi- to distinguish the higher grades of human 

mental Biology, Rockefeller Institute, pre- intelligence. Professor Raymond f'earl of 

sented the results of two years of investiga- Johns Hopkins University presented a paper 

tion of the physical and chemical behavior on the Specific Forces of Mortality. 



1921] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



287 



The New England Home Economics 
Association held its February meeting under 
the auspices of the Social Service Section, 
Margery Smith, Chairman. 

Lucy H. Gillett, Superintendent Nutri- 
tion Bureau, Association for Improving the 
Condition of the Poor, New York City, gave 
a clear and convincing analysis of the train- 
ing and opportunities for nutrition workers. 
The varied needs that must be met by the 
nutrition worker require a thorough knowl- 
edge of foods, their nutritive values, amounts, 
and costs, and their relation to certain dis- 
eases; a knowledge of hygiene, of sanitation, 
of bacteriology, of standards of living; a 
command of the principles of psychology, 
of child training, and of social problems; 
thorough training in statistical methods, and 
a love for research. Opportunities for the 
nutrition worker are increasing, and the 
calls are more numerous than can be an- 
swered. Rural demands are pushing, and 
this field calls for the broadest combination 
of mental, physical, and spiritual equipment. 
As an adviser in iUness the nutrition worker 
is called upon to supplement the physi- 
cian's service, and should stand on a par 
with him in skill and remuneration. 

Ten minute talks followed Miss Gillett's 
address, showing how the Baby Hygiene 
Association, the neighborhood kitchen, the 
home demonstration agent, and the nutri- 
tion worker in industrial plants are achiev- 
ing results. There are many fields, many 
needs, many methods, but one goal — healthy, 
efficient human bemgs. 

The March program was arranged by the 
Teacher's Section under the subject, The 
Need for More Extended and Vital Instruc- 
tion in Home Economics. Frank W. 
Wright from the State Board of Education, 
spoke upon the subject. Does Home Econo- 
mics Teaching Function as it Should for the 
Girl of High School Age? He forcibly ad- 
vised immediate riddance from school cur- 
ricula of "the excess baggage." Public 
opinion was never so ready as now to accept 
home economics teaching, and this advan- 
tage should be seized. The time has come 
when, both figuratively and literally, home 



economics must be taken out of the base- 
ment and made to occupy the dignified po- 
sition it deserves. It should be taught in 
every school, and made to function in the 
home. 

Mrs. Calvin, out of her experience and 
surveys of home economics teaching, ac- 
knowledged that much of it falls far short 
of meeting the needs of the students. Bet- 
ter training is needed for teachers, and the 
course of study must be an all around course, 
based upon the needs of the home of today. 

The discussion that followed laid emphasis 
upon time alllotment, methods, and credits. 

The luncheon at the Hotel Brunswick at- 
tracted 108 persons. The after luncheon 
speakers were Mrs. Calvin; Mabel Bragg, 
Assistant Superintendent of Schools, New- 
ton; and Agnes H. Craig, Supervisor of 
Home Economics, Springfield. 

Mrs. Calvin made a plea for more uni- 
formity in home economics standards as 
regards equipment, courses of study, and 
credit values. 

Miss Bragg's work centers around the 
health of the individual, the question in all 
grades being " What do you need to live your 
best life today?" the answer being given by 
the formation of health habits, good manners, 
and social interests. 

Miss Craig emphasized the importance of 
the right point of view of the layman and 
the educator. Each of these must be shown 
that home economics deals with better liv- 
ing, not with the mere performance of tasks; 
that applied science, art, and economics are 
to overcome drudgery; and that good citizen- 
ship requires the best of life and living. 

State College, Brookings, S. D. 
Among the new courses for women intro- 
duced this year is one which prepares for 
the management and operation of tea rooms. 
The course requires of each student the 
actual management of a model tea room for 
one week. Under the management of the 
nine women enrolled this year the tea room 
has been so popular that it was impossible 
to accommodate all the students and faculty 
members who wished to patronize it. 



288 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



The Fess Home Economics Amend- 
ment to the \'ocational Education Act, was 
re-introduced in the SL\t>--seventh ConRress 
on April 11 and referred to the Committee 
on Education. Its new number is H. R. 21. 

The proposed amendment will give more 
federal funds to the establishment of home 
economics classes in public schools. It 
will apportion moneys for home economics 
education on the basis of the to al popula- 
tion of a state, thus doinj away with one 
curious restriction in the original law, which 
apportioned the moneys on the basis of a 
state's urban population. 

An important proviso of the new bill is 
the stipulation that part of the funds must 
go to the establishment of part-time and 
evening classes for workers over fourteen 
years of age who have entered upon employ- 
ment. Such classes will mean opportunities 
for the housewi'e and the woman at work 
outside the home. 

It is hoped that ever>' home economics 
worker will take a personal interest in the 
passage of the bill. Let your senators and 
representatives know you are back of it. 
The Legislative Committee of the American 
Home Economics Association is counting on 
your cooperation. 

American Extension Methods in 
France. Miss Ola Powell of the Office of 
E.xtension Work, South, of the United States 
Department of .Agriculture, at the invitation 
of The .American Committee for Devastated 
France, sailed in April for France.- She 
will be associated for three months with 
Madame Lucile Devouge who, as a repre- 
sentative of the French Government, has 
been studying home demonstration work in 
this countr>-. Miss Powell also expects to 
travel in other European countries before 
her return, for the purpose of studying con- 
ditions and securing ideas and suggestions 
that may be applied in rural e.xtension work 
in this country. 

The New York Society of Craftsmen 
announces a summer school July 5 to .August 
12, 1921, with courses in batik, block print- 
ing, dyeing, history of ornament, leather 



working, weaving. For further information 
address Charles E. Pellew, President New 
York Society of Craftsmen, 10 East 47th St., 
New York. 

Teachers College, Columbia Univer- 
sity, announces summer courses in econom- 
ics and social science in relation to the 
home. Inquiries should be * addressed to 
Professor B, R. Andrews. 

An Institute of Child Hygiene and 
Nutrition, to be held at the School of Pub- 
lic Health, Louisville, Kentucky, June 6 to 
18, will offer a course of intensive study in 
the diets of children of pre-school and school 
age, including school lunches; in clinics; and 
in the general ever>'day care of the child. 

The course is open to home demonstra- 
tion agents, nurses, social workers, teachers, 
mothers, physicians, and others interested 
in the welfare of the child. 

Dr. Edith B. Lowry of the Bureau of 
Child Hygiene of the United States Public 
Health Service, and Dr. Annie Veech, Direc- 
tor of the Bureau of Child Hygiene for the 
State Board of Health of Kentucky, vnW con- 
duct the Institute. 

The University of Iowa announces a 
comprehensive series of courses to be given 
in the summer session for the training of 
teachers in nutrition and health of children. 
These courses are under the direction of the 
Department of Home Economics, with the 
cooperation of the Child Welfare Research 
Station, the Observational Schools, the Col- 
leges of iledicine and Dentistr>', the School 
of Public Health Nursing, and the Depart- 
ment of Public Health. 

The Southern Home Ecomonics Asso- 
ciation will meet at Nashville, Tennessee, 
June 9-11, with headquarters at the Hotel 
Hermitage. This meeting will be in the 
nature of a regional conference. Assemblies 
will be in the hotel assembly room and at 
Peabody College. An interesting program 
is in the making, and a large attendance 
is desired. Arrangements will be made for 
drives and picnics and as much open air 
as possible. 



Vol. XIII, No. 7 July, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mary de Garmo Bryan, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin. Pusineu Editof 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Amy Daniels Ruth Wheeler Katharine Fisbeb 

Ex-OMc'o Members— Mary E. .Sweeny, President American Home Economics Association 
OcTAViA Hall, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton, Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, Chairman Extension Education Section 
LiLLLAN Peek, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Household Arts for Junior High Schools David Sneddon 289 

Cllff Dweller's Brio.vd 2% 

S.\NiTATioN IN Fruit Preserv.\tion Edwin 0. Jordan 297 

The Extensionized Farm Woman Anna Gilbert 302 

The So\-ereign States and the Fess Home Economics Amendment . . Louise Stanley 305 
Experiments in the Making of Doughnuts of Low Fat Absorption. Part II 

Minna C. Denton and Louise B. Pritchett 309 

Housekeeping under Charles II 3j5 

For the Homemaker 

The Responsibility of the Consumer for Food Standards and Prices 

{Concluded) Agnes Fay Morgan 317 

Editorial 327 

The Open Forum 329 

Books and Literature ^^^ 

News from the Field 335 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registereo letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of charge in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Jouenal op Hoite Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store. Boston; 
A. C. McClurg & Co., Chicago; Hochschiid, Kohn & Co., Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 




THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 

Your biscuits, rolls, gems and other dainty 
bread-stuffs can be no belter than the bak- 
ing powder witb which they are made. 
Good baking powder is the leavening agent 
that makes thcni light and digestible. It is 
the keystone in the making of appetizing, 
wholesome cake, biscuits, muffins, etc. 

Of course, you want only the best of bak- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when you use 



ROYAL 

Bekldng Powder 




Made from 

Cream of Tartar 

derived from 

Grapes 



CONTAINS 

NO 

ALUM 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIII JULY, 1921 No. 7 

HOUSEHOLD ARTS FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS^ 

DAVID SNEDDEN 

Professor of Ediicalion, Teachers College, Columbia University 

Should we teach household arts in junior high schools? Should we 
require it of all girls or leave it as a free elective? Should it be given 
about ten per cent or preferably thirty per cent of school time? Should 
we make it an exacting and strenuous, or an amateur and play-like, 
subject? Should we especially emphasize practical skills, or technical 
knowledge, or ideals and appreciations? 

But there remain more fundamental questions. What do we mean 
specifically by household arts? What are its values — cultural, healthful, 
civic, vocational — to girls of junior high school ages? What are the 
other values — in arithmetic, English language, music, hygiene, general 
science, history, geography — all of more or less importance, that must 
be sought on behalf of these girls, through their schooling? Are all 
junior high school girls substantially alike as to their abilities, interests, 
prospects, and needs? What relationship can household arts be made 
to bear towards self-service in personal hygiene, thrift, right living, 
life guidance; towards the vocation of assistant homemaker, as daughter 
or domestic; or towards full responsibility homemaker, as wife and 
mother, or, occasionally, as wage-earning housekeeper? None of these 
questions are as yet adequately answered in the technical literature of 
education. We can, however, obtain some light on them by applying 
to their study certain devices of sociological analysis. 

1 Address delivered before the Household Arts Section of the Eastern Arts Association, 
Baltimore, March, 1921. 

289 



290 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

First, in order that we may not be embarrassed by problems growing 
out of purely administrative limitations — in order, that is, that we may 
study problems of educational values under optimum conditions — let 
us assume the existence of a junior high school of 1500 pupils, receiving 
only seventh and eighth grades, besides all pupils of lower grades who 
are over 12 years of age. We will think of this as an amply equipped, 
ably staffed school, ser\in^ a prosperous American city of 50,000 
population. 

This school, then, contains the children of prosperous, comfortable, 
and poor parents — some recent immigrants, the majority of white 
"native stock." Nearly all the boys and girls over 12 and under 14 
or 15 are here — the super-average, the average, and the sub-average 
in intelligence. Some will eventually go through college, some will 
leave to go to work just after their fourteenth birthday. Four-fifths 
of the girls will be "gainfully employed" for a few years after leaving 
school. Ninety per cent of those of lower economic station, and seventy 
per cent of those of higher economic station will marry before twenty- 
five. Of those who marry, perhaps half, by any reasonable standards, 
will become good, but not best, homemakers by virtue of pick-up and 
trial-and-error methods, even if the schools teach nothing resembling 
household arts. Perhaps half will fall short of being even average 
good homemakers if left to home training and pick-up methods. 

The seven-hundred-fifty girls of this school are, obviously, a diversified 
crowd, diversified as respects abilities, environments, interests, prospects. 
It is the business of the junior high school, the integrating function of 
education, to smooth out some of these diversities, and possibly to 
accentuate others, on the principle of "to them that hath shall be given." 
Let us diagnose certain social case groups. 

In case group Q are nearly 100 girls of whom the following facts are 
substantially true: they come from prosperous or comfortable homes; 
they are above the average in intelligence, mentality, or ability, how- 
ever named; they will almost certainly go through high school, and 
many will go to normal school or college; their homes give them little 
mastery of the executive or "doing" side of home crafts, but do give 
them a large stock of appreciations of good dress, good food, clean rooms, 
social behav-ior, and orderly households. From their homes, too, they 
get a goodly stock of habits and some ideals of hygienic and sanitary 
practices. They have now little feeling of responsibility for the home, 
or vital interest in their own later home life. They dearly love "good 



1921] HOUSEHOLD ARTS FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS 291 

times" and take comfortable homes for granted as they take air and 
city water. It may be a reasonable expectation that, as women, they 
will have none too good health, either as gainful workers or home- 
makers. Their ambitions will tend to outrun their physical and financial 
powers, and not a few will deliberately evade the serious responsibilities 
of homemaking and family life from social selfishness or under the 
mistaken assumption that other things are much more important. 
Some will in mature years become civic workers of a high order. 

Case group R consists of the daughters of prosperous families, but 
aftiicted with less than average intelligence. Their parents will prob- 
ably keep them in schools of one kind or another until they are 18, or 
even 20, but they cannot graduate from high schools. Not a few of 
these will be selfish, self-indulgent, extravagant, foolish. Some will 
find work in clerical positions, or salesmanship; and some will remain 
as dependents. A large proportion will marry, and their homemaking 
will be variable. 

Case group S consists of 100 girls of less than average ability from 
the poorer homes of the city. Few of these girls will remain in school 
after the period of compulsory school attendance comes to an end. 
They will seek wage-earning work in factories, ten-cent stores, and 
restaurants. All but a few will have married by 24, mostly to artisans, 
railway workers, clerks on inferior wages. Their homes will be cramped, 
and as children increase, their lives will tend to become dingy, a bit 
sordid, and lacking in serenity, at least as judged by standards of social 
workers. 

Case group T consists of at least 50 girls of superior or higher intel- 
ligence from low economic surroundings. These will move rapidly 
through to the high school where many will take stenography, and a 
few will prepare to teach. They must become at least self-supporting 
by 16 or 18 and may even be called upon to help support their families. 
Not a few will tend to overwork their none-too-strong bodies. They 
will become ambitious to marry above their fathers' station, and a 
considerable proportion, not finding just what they want, will prefer 
celibacy with its independence and higher standards of dress and 
amusements. 

While these case groups will in actual practice more or less blend into 
each other, it is practicable, nevertheless, to consider them separately 
for the purposes of curriculum making, and, in so large a school as that 
here postulated, it would be easily and economically practicable, by 



292 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

elective or alternative studies, to vary the programs of the different 
groups, in so far as parents and teachers might agree upon differences 
of abilities and needs. 

It is not practicable here to analyze all the curriculum offerings or 
requirements that the junior high school should make on behalf of these 
various groups. But it ought to be clear that the partisans of no one 
subject— whether that be grnmmar, music, French, civics, or household 
arts— can hope finally to settle, by themselves, the place and scope 
of their favorite study in the curricula to be offered. In fact the pro- 
ponents of household arts ought no more to be expected to settle ques- 
tions of the social need of their subject than a cook should determine 
a man's need for a meal, or a tailor a man's need for a new suit. 

The junior high school ought, doubtless, to require all of these girls 
to study some essentials of civics and American history. Whether 
it should require all, or only the backward in spelling, handwriting, 
hygiene, and arithmetic to take more of these subjects than they have 
had in their first six grades depends, obviously, upon what we agree to 
require as desirable minimum standards in these subjects — something 
that we have not yet dealt with by scientific methods. 

We have good grounds for believing that no strictly vocational edu- 
cation, in the sense of training, is practicable or desirable during this 
under-fourteen period. The girls who go to work at or soon after 14 
will usually enter specialized vocations for which a few weeks of specific 
training, apart from the junior high school, would give all the prepara- 
tion practicable at this age. But it ought to be expected that at 17 
or 19 or 22 many of these girls could and, given facilities, will "come 
back'' to specific vocational "upgrading" schools for adjustment to 
adult vocations. A few hours, probably thirty, or sixty at most, might 
well be devoted to vocational guidance during the six months next 
preceding departure from the junior high school. 

Since this paper states the results of a quest for educational values, 
let us clear the way by assuming (what the present writer believes is the 
correct solution) that in this junior high school: (a) no household arts 
is prescribed for all pupils; (b) all girls are required to take a course each 
year ("equal to sixty clock hours) of hygiene, plus needed physical train- 
ing; and (c) each girl is given opportunity to elect, as alternative to 
other courses, one or two household arts courses from the three that 
are offered, as described below. 



1921] HOUSEHOLD ARTS FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS 293 

What household arts or related courses might such a school offer? 
The following at least are theoretically feasible: 

a. Two "Home Self-Service" courses, A for 7th grade and retarded 
girls, and B for 8th grade, 90 hours each, designed especially to teach 
wage-earning girls or those who are later to become college girls to 
care for their own health, finances, apparel, associations, and general 
living conditions. They emphasize instruction in such technical mat- 
ters as food values, wholesome recreation, and rest; and training in 
short units of clothing upkeep and renovation, laundry, and possibly 
light food preparation, to which is added instruction in right buying, 
simple personal accounts, and possibly social recreation. Some of the 
powers and appreciations thus acquired will obviously carry over in 
part into later homemaking. But it is a mistake to call this work home- 
making, since the essence of true homemaking is service to others, and 
only incidentally to one's self. Besides, this is not the age at which 
we may expect motives (except amateur) for homemaking to be active, 
except in rare cases; whereas a substantial proportion of the girls, 
especially from poorer homes, may have very genuine motives for 
"home self-service." 

b. Two courses, C and D "Household Arts for Amateurs," maximum 
of 180 hours each year, would use the scouting spirit, involve little 
drudgery and many attractive projects, accompanied by much alluring 
reading about homes, foods, children, parties, house care, nursing, 
home gardening, pets. A general cultural course designed to enrich 
experience first of all, but secondarily to give appreciations of homes, 
homemaking, and modern scientific and artistic achievements in do- 
mestic fields. Where cooperation of homes could be secured, projects — 
meal preparation, cake making, child care, room care, furniture reno- 
vation, laundry, garden, dressmaking, entertainment — would be devel- 
oped from the school, approved by the mother, and executed by one 
or a group of pupils under supervision of the teacher. Not only should 
not such courses be required of all, but no particular projects or read- 
ings should be required of all alike. The utmost flexibility should 
prevail. Pupils failing to take hold properly should simply be asked 
to withdraw, at least for a time, since they disturb the proper voluntary 
spirit. 

c. A "Technical Homemaking" course, E, 180 hours, 4 hours per 
week for one year, but open to mature girls of 7th or lower grades, as 
well as 8th grade girls. A course as rigorous in its methods as arithme- 



294 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

tic. based upon careful study of a central text book, supplemented by 
laboratorv- practice, and calculated to give a store of knowledge, and 
some ideals, rather than skills. Such a course should give much informa- 
tion about modern advances in homemaking — buying, food values, 
child health, use of power driven appliances (not overlooking that 
American urban homes have generally achieved two at least of the 
greatest labor saving devices ever invented— piped water supply and 
piped sewage disposal) ^ art in domestic life, the deeper social significance 
of home and family life. It is the writer's belief that such a course as 
this would appeal to fifteen or twenty per cent of girls, especially the 
more imaginative and ambitious, and would give them at least as much 
profit as their grammar and arithmetic do now, and more than will the 
later physics and foreign language. Such a course should never be a 
required course. In a small school, however, administrative limitations 
in respect to alternatives might make it, if the one chosen to be offered, 
in effect requiied, but that is due to poverty of opportunity, not edu- 
cational need. 

Let us assume our school equipped with a good advisory service. 
What courses would these ad\-isors recommend to the girls most nearly 
representing the various case groups? 

For case group R they would recommend courses C and D — House- 
hold Arts for Amateurs. They would do this in the expectation that 
these girls have yet several years to spend in schools, and are practically 
certain to study some kind of "hard" home economics later. Further- 
more it is important that these girls of meagre endowment, but favoring 
environment, be stimulated along lines of high grade practical arts 
actiA'ities to offset the discouragements they experience from failures 
in abstract studies. 

For case group S, would be recommended Home Self -Service courses 
A and B, on the assumptions: (1) that these girls, because of their 
environment, have much to learn as to care of health, earnings, char- 
acters; (2) that, going soon into wage-earning work, they will cease to 
be interested in the executive side of homemaking, although as boarders 
and in self-supporting capacities they may be expected to develop a 
wide variety of tastes and appreciations of good, fashionable, and per- 
haps costly things; (3) that if society is wise it will ofifer very concen- 
trated and practical full-time courses in homemaking (8 hours daily 
for perhaps three months and based chiefly on the out-project method — 
productive projects away from homes — and preferably not in the girl's 



1921] HOUSEHOLD ARTS FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS 295 

own home) at ages 20-25, preferably just preceding marriage, supple- 
mented by very practical afternoon extension courses for them after 
they begin homemaking. 

c. For case groups Q and T, recommendations would vary according 
to individuals. But, given the opportunity of electing course E as 
an alternative to an advanced course in arithmetic, or a foreign language, 
or English grammar, it is certain that many of these bright girls would 
take the "hard" technical course E, especially as it is not certain that 
with their ambitions they can or will pause for similar work later in 
school or college. Many of these girls will become intellectual leaders. 
From some of them will come future teachers of home economics. If 
they are to be saved, in a physical sense, from themselves, they should 
early acquire better perspectives as to health values, maternity values, 
and sound home social values than are now acquired by our ambitious, 
conscientious, energetic, middle class daughters. They may be expected 
to control their future environments and conditions more on the basis 
of "reason and science" than on the basis of faiths and skills. 

But none of the courses should be closed to girls from any case group, 
except for two reasons: (a) they need the time for other studies more 
essential to their purposes, if these are defined, or to "make up" defi- 
ciencies; and (b) after entering a course they fail to develop the proper 
spirit, important in all courses, or the required ability (a warrantable 
exclusion only from Course E). On the other hand, I see no reason why 
any girl should be required to take any of the courses named if the 
school is large and rich enough to offer useful alternative courses. 

If we can once agree upon certain fundamentals of educational 
aim by the methods of study illustrated, we shall then be ready to 
pass to a consideration of situations involving administrative or other 
limitations. 

What, for example, should be done in a small junior high school? 
What, at a time when perhaps we can obtain no acceptable teachers for 
courses A, B, C, D? What in a school (e.g. colored girls) where work 
of this character is socially "taboo?" What in a school without labo- 
ratory equipment? What in a school whose authorities are so strong 
on "higher" arithmetic, verbal history, English grammar, multiple- 
fact geography, and the rest, that no time remains for household arts? 

The writer will not now undertake to deal with these questions. 
But he must urge that the time is passing when the partisans of special 
subjects will be permitted to be the chief pleaders for their favorites. 



296 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Home economics teachers are, of course, specialists in knowledge of 
how home economics should be taught; they should be able to give us 
a large amount of knowledge as to the usefulness of these subjects; but 
neither they nor other specialists must usurp the prerogatives of deciding 
on comparative values. For some girls French may be much more 
worth while than home economics; but the French teacher cannot 
decide this and neither, I think, can the home economics teacher. Com- 
pulsion is nearly as bad in edu -ation as in politics, religion, or marriage. 
The writer is willing to compel the taking of any subject to any degree 
of proficiency in any school or for any college where experts in educa- 
tional values have agreed upon the value of the subject for the type 
of student concerned. But in view of our present stupendous ignorance 
of educational values above the primary grades (and the problem is 
only partially solved there) it appears to him a violation of all sound 
policies to require certain studies of all — whether those be Latin, algebra, 
militar}- drill, needle work, household arts, or gerxcral science. 



CLIFF DWELLER'S BREAD 

Some five hundred or more years ago, one of the original Americans, 
a dweller of the clilTs in what is now Mesa Verde National Park, Colo- 
rado, forgot to eat his supper, and Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, archeologist of 
the Smithsonian Institution, has found the cereal portion of it. Through 
all these years, the drj- air of that region has preserved this ancient, 
fried com bread, made into a form similar to the modern American 
griddle cake or the Mexican tortilla. 

This ancient food was found on the plaza of Oak-Tree House, one of 
the many cUtT dweller ruins that Dr. Fewkes has unearthed and recon- 
structed. He also found the slanting stones between which the house- 
wife of the ancient community crushed the corn; and even the straw 
brush used in scraping up the corn meal had lain near by through the 
centuries. — Science Service. 



1921] SANITATION IN FOOD PRESERVATION 297 

SANITATION IN FOOD PRESERVATION^ 

EDWIN O. JORDAN 
University of Chicago 

While dirt cannot now be regarded as the breeding place and origin of 
most infectious diseases, it just as certainly does play an important 
part in the modern problem of food preservation and food distribution 
of which the canning industry is such an essential feature. 

The process of preserving food by heat possesses the enormous advan- 
tage that the vast majority of known disease germs are killed by even 
a few moments' exposure to the temperature of boihng water. The use 
of heated food, therefore, constitutes one of our greatest safeguards 
against the entrance of disease germs and other parasites through the 
alimentary tract. The thorough cooking of pork is known to protect 
against the dreaded trichinosis due to the parasitic worm trichineUa. 
It is well known that many of the most famous instances of food poison- 
ing have occurred after the use of raw or partly cooked foods, such, for 
example, as the sausages and other meat preparations made from 
uncooked animal tissues and used widely in Germany and some other 
European countries. These outbreaks of food poisoning are due in 
many cases to certain bacteria resembling the t}phoid bacillus which 
are present in the uncooked food. In some of these outbreaks the fact 
stands out clearly that only those indi\dduals who have eaten the meat 
raw or imperfectly cooked have been affected, while others who have 
partaken of meat from the same animal after thorough cooking have 
escaped altogether. 

In this country, where the use of uncooked meat foods is relatively 
uncommon, outbreaks of meat poisoning of this type have been rarely 
reported. It is no wonder that sanitarians have long recognized the 
value of thorough cooking in preventing infections, and that the appUca- 
tion of high temperatures to the preparation of food has been called 
"the greatest sanitary step ever taken by the race." The men of the 
Old Stone Age do not seem to have cooked their food, but in the later 
period, 10,000 or 12,000 years ago, cooking utensils of various kinds 
were apparently in common use. 

' Address delivered before the Fourteenth .Annual Convention of the National Canners 
Association, Atlantic City, Januarj', 1921. 



298 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

WTiile there is no doubt that the heating of food is an important 
defense against infection, the large-scale preser\'ation of food by heat 
has met with certain practical dithculties. One of these is the difficulty, 
not so great now as earlier, of hermetically sealing the heated food. 
If the container is not air-tight, every housewife and ever>- canner knows 
that air and the germs may enter and cause spoiling. In the com- 
mercial industry of canning at the present day I understand that while 
leaky cans sometimes occur they are relatively uncommon. 

Far more serious than the problem of imperfect containers s the 
occasional failure to destroy the germs in or upon the food product. 
This is due to the occurrence among bacteria of certain highly resistant 
bodies called spores. Not all bacteria produce spores and the true 
significance of spores in the fife of bacteria is not fully understood, 
although they seem to be a sort of protective device for tiding the 
species over a period of hard times. Some of them are extraordinarily 
resistant. I had in my laborator>^ at one time a bacterium the spores 
of which would withstand boiling for 16 hours. It is the spore-produc- 
ing bacteria that make most of the trouble in the canning industry, 
and the origin and distribution of these forms are consequently of great 
practical importance. It is a piece of good fortune for the himian race 
that relatively few of the disease germs affecting man possess a resist- 
ing spore stage, and in consequence nearly all dangerous bacteria are 
killed by a few moments' exposure to the temperature of boiling water. 
This is true of the tj-phoid bacillus, the cholera vibrio, the ordinary 
germs of blood poisoning, and most other forms. 

There are three or, four exceptions that should be mentioned: the 
baciUus of anthrax, a disease communicated from cattle or sheep to 
man, generally transmitted by wool or hides, and apparently very 
rarely if at all by food products; the bacilli of lockjaw and of gas gan- 
grene which enter the body through a wound and not so far as known, 
from the stomach or intestines; and the bacillus of botulism which forms 
its poison outside the human body and does not as a rule appear to 
invade the tissue. It is the latter only, B. botulinus, whose presence 
in food heated at high temperatures has been definitely shown to cause 
poisoning and death. The bacilli of lockjaw, gas gangrene, and botu- 
linus, as is well known, belong to a group of bacteria characterized by 
their ability to grow in the practical absence of free oxygen (far below 
what is needed by the ordinary bacteria). This group of anaerobes, as 
they are called to distinguish them from the aerobes of oxygen-needers, 



1921] SANITATION IN FOOD PRESERVATION 299 

is a difficult one for bacteriologists to study, and our knowledge of them 
is still very incomplete and unsatisfactory. It is, however, just this 
group of anaerobes that is of greatest significance in the canning indus- 
try. While the spores of oxygen-needing bacteria, even if they survive 
the heating process, are not able to multiply in the air-tight can, the 
spores of anaerobes do sometimes find favorable conditions for devel- 
opment and accordingly multiply until the contents of the can are spoiled 
or even, as in the case of B. botulinus, an intensely virulent poison is 
produced. 

There is reason to suppose that the favorite habitat of some of the 
best-studied anaerobic bacteria is the intestinal tract of warm-blooded 
animals. The bacillus of lockjaw, for example, seems to have a special 
predilection for the intestinal tract of the horse, and furthermore certain 
individual horses harbor a much larger number of tetanus spores than 
do others. It has long been known that manured soils contain a high 
proportion of anaerobes, and the experience of the fighting armies on 
the long cultivated fields of Flanders and Northern France has shown 
us again how terrible under such conditions may be the infection of war 
wounds with the anaerobic bacteria of tetanus and gas gangrene. Recent 
observations in California on the distribution of B. BotuHnus spores in 
nature, although not completed, are highly suggestive. In one instance 
the owner of a small vegetable garden grew string beans and canned 
them in the household without any spoilage over a period of eight years 
prior to 1918. The garden was fertilized with animal manure in 1918, 
and, while the beans grown that year were canned by the same method 
as previously, they spoiled and some jars contained the botulinus toxin. 

Here we see the significance of the derivation of the word dirt from 
drit, excrement. Since all the available evidence indicates that the 
germs that interfere most seriously with the efficiency and safety of 
the canning process occur with particular abundance in the excreta of 
various animals, measures of sanitation in connection with canning may 
well be directed with special emphasis to avoiding this source of con- 
tamination. 

There is good reason why all foods intended for canning should be 
freed so far as practicable from any particles of manured soil that may 
adhere to them when gathered, and why in the immediate neighbor- 
hood of a canning plant especial care should be devoted to the proper 
disposal of all animal excretions. This is particularly true in the case 
of those foods which, for one cause or another cannot be advantageously 



300 THE JOURXAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

treated at verj' high temperatures. When it is possible to use very high 
temperatures, as is done in the case of ripe oHves which can be heated 
to 240° F. and kept at that temperature for 40 minutes without injury, 
both the danger of spoiling and the danger of botulinus poisoning may 
be entirely eliminated. 

While the safeguarding of the pubhc health and the prevention of 
economic loss from spoilage are and must continue to be the prime 
aims of sanitation in the cannmg industr}', the question of simple clean- 
liness is one that cannot be wholly overlooked. Civilized man is no 
longer content to use a common drinking cup or dry his hands on a 
much-used roller towel. He likes also to sit down at a table provided 
with a clean table cloth and to cat his food out of spotless dishes with 
spoons and forks of shining silver. He has lately shown signs of inter- 
est in the cleanliness of the methods used in the preparation and trans- 
portation of his food, as well as in its serving. He does not like to see 
street dust blowing over loaves of unwrapped bread and he wishes to feel 
assured that all his food is prepared and handled under reasonably 
cleanly conditions, even though it may not be possible to trace any 
specific diseases to various untidy practices. Here is one of the 
great opportunities for sanitary achievement in the methods of food 
presers'ation. 

There is of course a possibility of trouble here which has doubtless 
been foreseen by many. It is that so many and so expensive sanitary 
requirements may be estabHshed that the cost of food may be raised 
beyond a reasonable point. The absolutely necessar>' health require- 
ments can be met quite simply and at moderate cost. Everything 
beyond this is deserving of the most careful consideration. The degree 
of cleanliness upon which one insists in one's everyday surroundings is 
determined by one's pocketbook as well as by one's preferences. Gild- 
ing the hly has an economic as well as an esthetic side. 

The milk business offers a famiHar example of the desirability of 
scrutinizing proposed sanitary requirements. We are now told by the 
bacteriological students of milk production that the main source of 
bacterial contamination lies in the utensils, and that the character of 
the barn and hay lofts is not so important as once supposed. It has 
been shown that sanitar>' milk of low germ content may be produced 
with a relatively simple and inexpensive equipment, and that elaborately 
costly surroundings do not increase proportionately the hygienic value 



1921] SANITATION IN FOOD PRESERVATION 301 

of the product. It is well therefore in each case to determine whether 
the advantages of a given procedure are commensurate with the expense. 

I cannot let slip the opportunity of calhng attention to the necessity 
of using bacteriological methods to determine the ways and means of 
sanitation. Since all the known dangers from food infection and from 
food spoilage are due to microbes, it is evident that a study of the life 
history of the microbes, of their resistance, of the physical and chemical 
conditions of their life, and of the places in which they are found must 
constitute the very essence of sanitation. For unless sanitary measures 
are directed towards the control and suppression of germ life they are 
quite without meaning. We must know where and how to strike, and 
we must follow in the laboratory the results of such methods as are put 
into effect in order to know whether they are achieving the desired end. 
Bacteriological studies furnish the only means of knowing where to 
direct our efforts. The introduction of sanitary methods without know- 
ing whether they are precisely what is needed or whether once in opera- 
tion they are reasonably effective may lead to much loss of time and 
energy. The fullest knowledge of the problem is desirable. 

To summarize the trend of opinion on food sanitation it may be said 
that first of all come measures designed to promote the safety of food 
products. Few food industries are in a position to satisfy this require- 
ment so completely as those engaged in food canning. Exact experi- 
ments in many laboratories have shown the degree and period of heat 
exposure necessary to insure the certain destruction of all dangerous 
bacteria. Among the other measures contributing to protection against 
dangerous spoilage few have so much to recommend them as the removal 
of particles of manured soil by thorough washing with clean water. 
The cleaning of all vegetables, fruits, and other foods before canning will 
give some protection against the introduction into the canned food, 
not only of germs dangerous to health, but of the germs that cause 
simple spoilage with its consequent economic loss. Finally, sanitary 
measures may well be directed to securing, in addition to the perfect 
safety of canned foods, a reasonable degree of cleanness so that the 
average consumer may be assured that at least the same amount of 
care and skill has been used as would be used in his own home. 



302 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

THE EXTENSIONIZED FARM WOMAN 
The Point of View of a Farm Woman 



AXNA GILBERT 



Much interest and wide publicity was given to the report of the farm 
home sur\'ey conducted last spring by the United States Department of 
Agriculture. This was a sur ey of conditions in about ten thousand 
farm homes, and was intended as a basis upon which to plan the exten- 
sion work needed by farm women. 

That the condition of many farm homes is in grave need of study and 
help from competent workers, such as those in extension service, is 
beyond dispute. To us women, however, who are being extensionized, 
it seems as if the workers were endeavoring to look from without, in, and 
not from within, outward. It is hard to realize how dififerent the farm 
life is from Hfe in city homes until one has expenenced both. 

There is an insistent demand upon the time of the farm woman, 
from sunrise until long after sunset. Each morning is begun with a 
renewed hope to get ahead with the work and have a little free time, or 
"vacant" periods, but at night there is the depressing realization that 
little has been accompHshed beside the regular and urgent routine. 
There are many daily duties of farm women of which city women have 
no conception, and also many are much harder to accomplish because 
of the way in which farm houses are built and used. 

Farm homes, in many cases, are still in a transition stage between 
colonial days, when all production and preserv^ation of food and manu- 
facture of clothing took place within the home, and the present city con- 
ditions in which as Httle as possible of either is done in the home. Now, 
in these days of higher-priced labor and scarcity of help, the foremost 
question should be, "Is the work that is carried on essential to the 
advancement of farming as a business?" Either directly in conser- 
vation or production of farm wealth, or indirectly in conservation of 
the women's health and contentment on the farm, we should clearly 
distinguish between what is essential and what is non-essential from a 
business viewpoint. One must bear in mind that not only are farm 
women conservers of what farmers earn, but they are to a very large 
extent producers of wealth. Farm women are in business partnership 
with their husbands as is no other class of women. The work of the 
farm is the farm life,- not part of farm, life, and one comes to enjoy it 
and to be glad to help in making it a success. 



1921] THE EXTENSIONIZED FARM WOMAN 303 

Yet it is true that only by eliminating a part of all the various activ- 
ities, now carried on in the farm home, can there be evolved a reasonable 
day's work with a reasonable amount of time for leisure and social life. 
For instance, let us take canning. During the war there was a nation- 
wide appeal to can all surplus food. Extension experts showed us how 
to can everything on the farm from a carrot to a chicken. Farm women 
as well as city women entered into the work with admirable spirit, and 
conserved great quantities of produce. Is it necessary and wise now, 
however, for farm women to can, pickle, preserve, and dry food as in 
colonial days? Surplus food from the garden can always be marketed 
at canning factories or used on the farm for feeding poultry and stock. 
My neighbor last summer put up forty quart cans of red raspberries 
when we could sell them fresh for forty cents a quart. Allowing for 
shrinkage, the market value of the berries she used was about $32. 
What would a doctor or a lawyer say to his wife if she went to the 
market and bought $32 worth of raspberries to can? 

One must become farm-minded to see the reason for many customs 
in farm homes. Why do the women, instead of the men, wash the 
cream separator? Let me ask, would it pay a business man to leave 
four or six horses standing and his "hired man" idle, — for hired men do 
not work automatically — and take one-half hour of his time to wash the 
separator, provided the water is heated ready in advance? In the 
summer, you must remember, the time of a man and team is worth from 
$6 to $10 a day. The establishing of more creameries and skimming 
stations will soon do away with home separating. 

We wonder why the extension workers do not realize that our life 
scheme is entirely different from that of city women. The surveys and 
reports emphasize the divergence of our life from that in a city as if 
we should use that as our standard. There should be two separate and 
distinct standards, for our conditions must necessarily be different. 

Extension workers often have urged us to make and remodel clothing 
for the family. Could they but attend the Ladies' Aid Society and see 
the number of homemade creations, they would go away with a devout 
wish that what had been done might have been left undone. The 
clothes problem is a large one on the farm. I know of no other one 
thing that takes more of my time than keeping my family mended and 
clothed. Very often the next season has arrived before I have prepared 
all around for the preceding one. I can see no well-grounded reason 
why farm women should make their clothing to any great extent. In 



304 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

fact many reasons point to the contrar>'. We are too busy to study 
modes, styles, cuts, and materials. We do not need so many garments 
as city women, and we wear the better garments so seldom that they 
are old-fashioned before they are worn out. We need instruction in 
the choice of clothing in order to get colors becoming to sunburnt 
skins, materials that shed the dust, and styles that are simple but 
pleasing. Just now the home demonstration agents are teaching how 
to make dress forms for home sewing. If I took the time to make one, 
I am afraid that I should I'cel that I had to use it. Why not show where 
we could buy, through the mail or at local stores, pretty suitable things? 
Do you know how much we buy through the mail because of its con- 
venience, and mostly from one firm which illustrates glaring bargains 
of cheap goods? Few farm women know the names of merchants who 
sell through the mail a better grade of goods. Without doubt farm 
women are not well groomed, and yet I feel that we could be if farmers 
received higher prices for their produce and we swing away from home 
dressmaking again. Does it pay to spend much time darning stockings, 
if the same time spent caring for the chickens will increase the egg yield? 
A striking variation from city homes is the farm kitchen. Besides 
being the place for preparing the meals, in winter it is the laundry, the 
dining room, the *' wash-up" room, and the drying-out room. My 
kitchen does not look pretty when one wall is hung with dusty old work- 
coats and sweaters, but who wants to put on a freezing cold coat at 
five o'clock in the morning? In winter, milk cans lined with frozen 
milk often stand around the range. One looks forward to the time 
when there will be a campaign for the coatless kitchen, and a drying 
and thawing-out room with a register. That farmhouses have not the 
modem conveniences of city homes is everywhere conspicuous, but the 
improvements in farm homes have been so rapid of late years, and the 
manufacture of equipment suitable for rural homes has increased so 
largely, that we should expect to see a noticeable advance in modern- 
izing farm homes in the next few years. 

Although we farm women need much help in solving our daily work 
problems, we would not exchange our farm life for that in a city. We 
enjoy the work, and we feel that we are a part in the accomplishment 
of the big agricultural production which is making for national wealth. 



1921] THE FESS AMENDMENT 305 

THE SOVEREIGN STATES AND THE FESS HOME 
ECONOMICS AMENDMENT 

LOUISir STANLEY 
Chairman, Legislative Comtnitlee, American Home Economics Association 

"Does your state desire the passage of the Fess Home Economics 
Amendment? How will such legislation benefit your state?" 

Propounding questions like these, the American Home Economics 
Association addressed the sovereign states of our union, asking for an 
expression of opinion on the value to them of the passage of this amend- 
ment to the Smith-Hughes Vocational Education Act of 1917. Hon. 
Simeon D. Fess of Ohio introduced the measure in the last Congress as 
H. R. 12078 and has reintroduced it in the Sixty-seventh Congress as 
H. R. 21. 

The Smith-Hughes law provides for cooperation between the states and 
the federal government in providing education for useful employment 
to persons over fourteen years of age along the Hnes of agriculture, trades 
and industries, and home economics. The law provides certain amounts 
of federal funds to be appropriated annually for the promotion of agri- 
culture and industrial training; it further stipulates that one-fifth of 
the funds allotted to any state for industrial training "may" be allotted 
to home economics. Hence, for the "fiscal year, 1921-22, agricultural 
training and industrial training will each receive $1,500,000, while home 
economics "may" receive $300,000, or one-fifth of the fund appro- 
priated for industrial training. The Fess amendment equalizes the 
amounts appropriated to each of the three lines of education. 

Furthermore, the act of 1917 provides that the federal moneys shall 
be allotted to the states on the basis of urban population. Home econom- 
ics education is governed by the same rule, notwithstanding the fact that 
there are homes in the country as well as in cities and towns. The 
Fess Amendment provides that the funds for home economics education 
shall be apportioned on the basis of total population. 

Again, the existing law prescribes that home economics education shall 
be governed by the regulations which control industrial education. This 
is much like trying to run a home on the rules which govern a factory. 
By the provisions of the Fess Amendment, home economics education 
is empowered to set up its own regulations and consequently to develop 
along the individual lines of homemaking. 



306 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Julv 

In response to a letter sent by the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation to state directors of vocational education, came replies of greater 
or less elaboration of detail, but all of these replies may be roughly classi- 
fied as expressing four major reasons why the states would benefit by the 
passage of the Fess Home Economics Amendment. 

1. We need the money. We have more applications for home econom- 
ics classes than we can supply with the funds at hand. 

2. The trade and industri; 1 regulations are hampering for two reasons: 
the allotment of funds on the basis of urban population is unfair to the 
country homes; the regulations governing trade and industrial education 
do not fit home economics education. 

3. Home economics education is an Americanization measure. It 
helps the foreign-born women. Homemaking training helps the poor 
to use their slender resources to better advantage. 

4. The standard of home economics education is raised by the fact 
that schools receiving federal aid must measure up to a required standard. 
With more funds there will be more high-grade schools. 

The specific statements of the different states are varied and inter- 
esting. 

Missouri writes that she now has vocational home economics in forty 
high schools and can place it in 200 high schools if the Fess Amendment 
becomes a law. Florida has four schools receiving federal aid for 
home economics classes and at least twenty-five schools waiting to re- 
ceive aid. Kentucky says that she can easily spend ten times the amount 
of money now received. Oregon writes that she already is spending 
out of state funds five times as much as the amount of federal funds 
received. The law obliges a state only to match the federal appropria- 
tion with state or local funds. 

Kansas sees that the pro\-isions of the Fess Bill are along the lines of 
''proper national economy." Kansas has forty-five schools in voca- 
tional agriculture; eleven centers and forty-seven evening classes for 
trade and industrial work; and only seven day schools and thirteen eve- 
ning classes in home economics — all because of lack of funds. 

Mar>'land makes a specific statement. "We have reached the limit 
and cannot further promote the work until additional funds are available. 
None of the vocational home economics departments in the various high 
schools of the state will be able to receive subsidy for the last quarter. 
There are only eight day schools receiving benefit from federal aid and 
yet the funds are exhausted with pa>anents covering only three quarters. 
The shortage is about S2000 on these schools besides evening work to 



1921] THE FESS AMENDMENT 307 

the extent of $2500 in the city of Baltimore which will be compelled to 
go without subsidy." 

North Dakota says: "The available (federal) funds for North Dakota 
are only $1000 for the entire state. This is not sufficient to reimburse 
two schools on a 50-50 basis; we have ten applications for aid for every one 
which we can reimburse. " 

North Carolina complains of "lack of funds and trained teachers." 
"We could put a vocational teacher of home economics in every large 

tynpe school in the state if the money was available 

Of course, as more money becomes available, we can train more teachers." 

Arkansas sees that increased funds for home economics, will also help 
agriculture because experience shows that it is easier to establish schools 
of agriculture if schools of home economics are established in the same 
building. 

Ohio, Michigan, West Virginia, and New York express themselves as 
wishing a modification in the present regulations tying up home eco- 
nomics with trade and industrial education. 

Ohio says: "Our home economics departments are expressing a great 
deal of anxiety concerning the measure. We have been hampered in 
the home economics phase of our vocational education because home eco- 
nomics has been so intimately under the industrial division, and, second, 
because there has been such a small percentage of funds available for 
home economics work. " 

West Virginia reveals an interesting situation. Her population is 
divided almost equally among farmers, miners, and manufacturers, 
and hence is largely industrial. But the census classifies the state as 
agricultural, hence trade and industrial training (and consequently home 
economics) receives a minimmn allotment. The West Virginia legisla- 
ture has expressed its appreciation of vocational education by a Hberal 
increase in appropriations for the purpose of such education. 

Michigan makes her direct statement that "home economics schools 
cannot be conducted on the same basis that trade schools are conducted. " 
Michigan is in process of consolidating her rural schools. She has estab- 
lished home economics classes in 130 schools in larger cities and towns but 
needs more funds to place such classes in the smaller schools. 

With the passage of the Fess Amendment and the modification of the 
requirements which link together home economics and industrial train- 
ing. New York will be able to utilize federal funds for home economics. 
At present the whole federal appropriation is being put into trade and 
industrial education. 



308 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

The reports from Wyoming and Xew Jersey speak not only of a need 
of funds but of the great value of the homemaking work among the for- 
eign-born population. Wyoming tells of the work in the mining centers 
where large numbers of aliens now live. "During the past two years 
we have made special efforts to reach some of these people with the small 
amount of money available, and have been very much pleased with the 
results secured. In these communities the girls marry at very early ages, 
fifteen or sixteen years, so tnat they have almost no opportunity to 
receive instruction in home economics in regular schools, and the organi- 
zation of special classes for their benefit seems especially necessary. " 

Montana expresses her financial plight by saying, "We can assure you 
that vocational education, especially in home economics, is properly 
appreciated and that, if some financial aid is not pro\dded for the 
schools throughout the state, vocational home economics will die. " 

Then follows a little picture out of real hfe. 

"That type cf home economics education which can be given in the 
day and evening classes in the public schools does much to better living 
conditions in the community; and at this time, when business is poor and 
a family often lacks funds to properly care for its needs, this kind of edu- 
cation is a God-send. " 

What Montana has expressed is undoubtedly true in every state in the 
Union and in ever\' country of the world. One of the best aids to 
industrious, honest American citizenship is the stir of the self-respect in- 
spired by living in well-kept homes, wearing decent clothing, eating 
wholesome meals. If the poorest are raised, then aU other strata will 
be raised. Surely a little expenditure toward the achievement of such 
a result is economy for any nation. 

The states also submitted evidence that state organizations of varied 
character had endorsed the bill — organizations of parents and teachers, 
womens clubs, and labor unions. 

The national organizations which have endorsed the measure to date 
are: American Home Economics Association, American Association of 
University Women, General Federation of Women's Clubs, Land Grant 
College Association, National Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teacher 
Associations, National Council of Executive and Administrative Women 
in Education, Deans of Women in Colleges of the National Education 
Association, Vocational Section of the National Education Association, 
National Grange, National League of Women Voters, National Society 
for Vocational Education, National Woman's Christian Temperance 
Union. 



1921] MAKING DOUGHNUTS OF LOW FAT ABSORPTION 309 

EXPERIMENTS IN THE MAKING OF DOUGHNUTS OF LOW 

FAT ABSORPTION^ 

MINNA C. DENTON AND LOUISE B. PRITCHETT 

Part II 

Some of the conclusions which we have been able to draw from the 
entire body of data collected in the course of over two hundred diflferent 
experiments, in which many different recipes were tested, may be sum- 
marized as follows : 

1 . The proportion of flour used has a great effect upon the amount of 
fat absorbed during frying. A stiff dough absorbs less fat, other factors 
being equal, than does a soft dough. But if too stiff a dough is made, 
especially with a plain mixture low in fat and comparatively low in 
sugar such as our "standard doughnut," the crumb is apt to be firm 
and elastic like bread rather than tender and rich like cake, and for 
that reason the product is usually judged to be undesirable. 

2. The kind of flour used, whether from hard or soft wheat, does not 
seem to have very much effect on the fat absorption in so far as these 
doughnuts may be used as indicators. Tests were made with four 
kinds of flour, ranging in strength from a Minnesota hard spring wheat 
bread flour, thoroughly aged, to a North Carolina soft wheat flour. 
The standard weights and proportions of all ingredients were used in 
all cases, and the dough was allowed to stand for one and one-half 
hours before being rolled to standard thickness and weight. The 
absorption was no greater for the doughnuts made with soft wheat 
flour than for those made with hard wheat flour, the average being 
21 per cent in both cases. Any differences in manipulation or in moisture 
content, which might conceivably result from the different ways in 
which a cook may handle different kinds of flour, would, however, doubt- 
less have important effects upon the fat absorption. In this connection, 
it may be remarked that the slight differences in absorption consistently 
shown between these two kinds of flour, when determining fat absorp- 
tion of fried balls of dough (see Journal, March, 1920, page 123), are 
lost in the larger range of experimental error due to the more com- 
plicated manipulation used in frying ring-shaped doughnuts. 

1 Published by permission of the Secretary of Agriculture. 

This is the second part of the second report from the Experimental Kitchen Laboratory 
on the subject of fat absorption during fr>-ing in deep fat. See Journal of Home Economics, 
March, 1920, for first report; and June, 1921, for first part of second report. 



310 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

3. But, though those differences in the condition of the gluten in 
"strong" and "weak" flours, which are highly significant in bread 
making, seem to have little effect upon the fat absorption during the 
frying of doughnuts, nevertheless we consider it is ordinarily the presence 
of gluten in the flour, or of a cooked starch paste, or of some other 
material capable of fusion into a coherent matrix, which makes possible 
the formation of a fat-resistant crust. For whenever any ingredient 
of the dough other than gluten or cooked starch is increased — whether 
it be egg, milk, water, sugar, uncooked starch, or fat — the fat absorption 
always rises. Yet it can not be assumed that w^ater, for example, has 
a special attraction for fat. Conversely, whenever the amount of flour 
is increased, the fat absorption always falls. Furthermore when an 
equal weight of raw cornstarch was used to replace one-half of the flour 
in the "standard" mixture, the absorption was increased from an average 
of 24 per cent to 30 per cent. This increase we suppose was due in 
part at least to dilution of the gluten with cornstarch particles which 
lack cohesive properties when raw. (See also the discussion of these 
points in the former paper, referred to at the beginning of this article.) 

However, it would be a mistake to attribute the crust-forming property 
entirely to the unassisted gluten proteins regardless of their physical 
condition. WTien gluten was separated from the flour by washing, 
then dried and ground to a coarse powder and used to replace one-half 
of the floar in the "standard" mixture, the absorption was increased to 
40 per cent. But this dried gluten was very granular and hard and 
seemed to have lost its cohesive property. When soaked overnight 
it swelled greatly but still remained in granules which were with difficulty 
formed into a ball by kneading a very small portion for one hour. This 
instance is of course only another illustration of facts often pointed out 
in the Hterature of bread-making, viz., that the elastic and cohesive 
properties of gluten are dependent at least in part upon the soluble 
salts present which are removed by washing; and that the drying of a 
moist colloidal mass may produce certain irreversible changes in the 
physical condition of its components. 

That the resistance to fat penetration is not due merely to the quantity 
of gluten present regardless of its physical condition was further shown 
by experimental evidence. In those experiments a gluten flour, manu- 
factured for the use of diabetics, and containing by analysis 36.5 per 
cent gluten (X of crude gluten times 5.7) was used in place of the ordi- 
nar>' wheat flour in making up the standard mixture. The absorption 



1921] MAKING DOUGHNUTS OF LOW FAT ABSORPTION 311 

was 24 per cent and 25 per cent, respectively, in the two fryings made. 
These figures do not differ from the average absorption (when fried at 
once) of the standard mixture when made with an ordinary wheat flour, 
which averages 1 1 .4 per cent protein (or 10.4 per cent gluten if gluten be 
assumed as N times 5.7). 

It was noticeable that when the dried gluten and the uncooked corn- 
starch were added to the dough mixture neither of these materials 
entered into intimate connection with the remaining constituents of 
the dough; on the other hand, their particles remained visibly separate, 
to a greater or less degree. The results of the addition of cooked corn- 
starch or of a well-kneaded, cohesive mass of gluten, capable of thorough 
amalgamation with the dough, proved to be an entirely different proposi- 
tion, and yielded opposite results. 

On the whole, then, it seems fairly clear that reduction of area pre- 
sented to the hot fat is the important consideration. Distinct particles 
or lumps of gluten present a relatively larger amount of surface. The 
pressure of an efficient "binder," such as a sticky gluten or starch 
paste in which all superficial particles are embedded, and which, 
therefore, presents a minimum area to the hot fat, results in decreased 
absorption. This will be the case, however, only if the dough be so 
manipulated that its surface remains smooth. Loose flour on the 
outer surface, or roughness due to a tendency to stick to the board, 
will alike cause increases in fat absorption. 

4. Potatoes, when boiled and forced through a ricer and added to the 
mixture while still warm, are taken up much more intimately by the 
dough than are dried gluten granules or uncooked starch grains. The 
fat absorption during frying is decreased in this case, which involves 
the addition of cooked starch as well as of potato proteins. The average 
absorption for "standard" doughnuts to which 224 grams of riced 
potatoes are added (8 ounces cooked potatoes to about 20 ounces of 
flour) is 16 per cent (instead of the usual 24 per cent) when fried by the 
customary method, turning one or more times in the process of frying. 

5. That gluten when "developed" or partially fused by kneading is 
more effective in resisting fat absorption than when it exists in separate 
particles, in a lightly mixed dough, was shown in several instances 
where the dough was rolled and re-rolled and obviously over-handled 
in the effort to standardize the weight and size of the doughnuts. The 
reduction was from 22 per cent, when every effort was made to avoid 
kneading, to 16 per cent fat absorption, when kneaded. 



312 THE JOUHNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Yeast-raised doughnuts, duplicating the ingredients and their pro- 
portions as used in the "standard" mixture— with this exception, that 
yeast instead of baking powder was used, and that the manipulation 
was necessarily different, — showed an absorption of 7 per cent. There 
was an absorption of 17 per cent for the "standard" doughnut similarly 
treated but raised with baking powder, made up at the same time as 
was the yeast mixture, and allowed to stand at room temperature for 
three hours, as did the yeast-raised doughnuts. This extra ripening of 
the dough accounts for tneir lowered absorption (17 per cent instead of 
the usual 24 per cent). A part of the "standard" mixture (baking- 
powder dough) was kneaded to correspond to the kneading received by 
the yeast-raised doughnut. The absorption in this case was 10 per cent. 
This method of decreasing fat absorption, while very effective, has no 
practical significance in the making of homemade doughnuts leavened 
with baking powder; since the resulting product is exceedingly tough. 

6. The cookiiig of the flour or flour and cornstarch before frying, 
as is done in making "queen fritters," reduces the absorption in very 
much the same way as does the addition of cooked potatoes to the 
doughnut mixture. Presumably the cooking of starch, when thorough 
enough to change the grains to a homogeneous paste, aids in the forma- 
tion of a fat-resistant crust or matrix in somewhat similar fashion to 
the action of a gluten which is in good condition for fusion of its particles 
when wet. 

"Queen fritters," even though a very soft mixture containing a very 
high percentage of fat, and though fried for a much longer period than 
are doughnuts, do not take up a large percentage of fat during frying 
(shoeing only 10 per cent to 20 per cent absorption) ; which is probably 
due in part to the fact that the cooking of the batter before frying 
thoroughly fuses the starch and gluten, thus enabling a fat-resistant 
crust to form quickly. 

7. Other things being equal, increase of egg in the batter increases 
fat absorption. But an increase in egg generally calls for an increase in 
flour in doughnut mixtures, which often over balances the effect of the 
egg. Again, the increase in egg usually increases the volume by increas- 
ing the expansion during frying, which in turn increases fat absorption. 
The effect of decrease in egg can be easily noted in the less compHcated 
"queen fritter" mixture, those fritters having two eggs added to a given 
weight of the cooked mush showing a consistently higher absorption 
(and also a larger volume) than do the one-egg fritters. 



1921] MAKING DOUGHNUTS OF LOW FAT ABSORPTION 313 

8. Allowing the dough to stand and "ripen" before frying, tends to 
decrease the fat absorption; especially when this procedure is continued 
over a number of hours or overnight. The standard mixture doughnut, 
allowed to stand one and one-half hours before frying, showed an average 
absorption of 20 per cent against the 24 per cent of those fried at once. 
In several cases allowing the dough to stand overnight in the refrigerator 
reduced the absorption considerably, e.g., from 22 per cent to 10 per 
cent. Standing for a short time makes the dough easier to handle 
and does not seem to have a bad effect upon the quality of the finished 
product, except in the case of the potato doughnut which loses lightness, 
since the potato stiffens in cooling. Standing overnight does seem to 
aflfect the lightness and volume of the finished product unfavorably in 
the case of almost all kinds of doughnut doughs, except possibly the 
very rich and soft ones. It must be remembered, however, that these 
doughs were all made with a single brand of tartrate baking powder. 
No experiments have as yet been tried on the eff.ects of standing or 
ripening upon a dough made with baking powders of other types. 

9. Reduction of the time of frying is one of the most Important factors 
in reducing the fat absorption. 

One method of reducing the time of frying is by raising the temperature 
of the fat. In one series, "standard" doughnuts fried for 3 minutes at 
185°C. gave an average absorption of 22 per cent fat; while doughnuts 
from the same mixture fried at 205°C. for 2 minutes absorbed 15 per 
cent fat. The high temperature made the "standard" mixture exces- 
sively brown; but when a doughnut mixture was made in which the 
sugar was reduced one-half and the flour reduced 45 grams, all other 
ingredients remaining the same as in the "standard" mixture, the high 
temperature did not cause undue browning. Frying at 210°C. did, 
however, seem to toughen this two-egg doughnut. Doughnuts of this 
same series fried at 185°C. for 3 minutes absorbed 18 per cent of fat, 
while those of the same mixture fried for 2 minutes at 210°C. absorbed 
11 per cent of fat. 

Another method of reducing the time of frying is to submerge the 
doughnut during the frying period. This method is used by some com- 
merical bakeries where doughnuts are made in large quantities, the 
doughnuts being forced under the surface of the fat by means of a wire 
screen sinker. In the Experimental Kitchen a device similar in principle, 
consisting of a round disc of galvanized wire netting with a heavy wire 
plunger attached to the center, was used. An ordinary' wire frying 



314 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

basket with a bail, if slightly smaller than the frying kettle, could be 
used in the same way to force the doughnuts under the surface of the 
fat as soon as they begin to rise to the surface, and keep them submerged. 

"Standard" doughnuts from a batch of dough that showed 19 per 
cent absorption, when the doughnuts were allowed to float, showed only 
13 per cent when submerged. 

"Standard potato" doughnuts, when fried by submerging for one 
and one-half minutes at 185' C, absorbed 12 per cent of fat; while 
doughnuts of the same mixtu'-e fried at the same temperature for three 
minutes, floating in lat and turned once or twice during frying, absorbed 
15 per cent of fat. (See also paragraph 3 under Practical Suggestions.) 

10. Since all parts of the surface of the doughnuts are equally exposed 
to the hot fat when kept completely submerged, the doughnuts expand 
evenly, showing much less tendency to crack than when allowed to float 
during the frying process. The doughnuts fried by this method, if 
made from a soft, well-mixed dough with a smooth surface, are usually 
glossy and have a soft, tender crust of uniform color, so that they are 
unusually attractive in appearance. However, a large or thick dough- 
nut should not be kept submerged while frying, since the time could 
not be shortened sufficiently, in this case, to reduce the fat absorption. 
Submergence without reduction of time of frying would, of course, only 
increase the fat absorption, since there is an increased surface exposed 
to the action of the hot fat, during submergence. 

PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS FOR THE HOME FRYING OF DOUGHNUTS OF 

LOW FAT ABSORPTION 

1. Reduction of the proportions of fat, sugar, and egg in the doughnut 
mixture decreases the amount of fat absorbed, provided the amount of 
flour used is not too greatly decreased at the same time. A plain dough- 
nut mixture, such as the "standard" recipe given in Part I, if properly 
fried, makes a doughnut which is very good the day it is made, but 
which becomes rather compact and bread-Like upon standing. 

2. Yeast-raised doughnuts, made by the "standard" recipe but with 
the substitution of one cake of compressed yeast for the baking powder, 
show a very low absorption of fat. They are quite different from the 
ordinary baking-powder doughnuts, but are often well liked. 

3. The following recipe has been repeatedly tested in the Experimental 
Kitchen and found very satisfactory. The doughnuts had a crisp 
tender crust and a light fluffy crumb. When they were fried sub- 
merged in the fat, absorption was found to be low. The keeping qualities 



1921] MAKING DOUGHNUTS OF LOW FAT ABSORPTION 315 

of this doughnut are exceptionally good, as it does not become hard and 
compact upon standing over night. As will be observed, it is a richer 
mixture than the "standard potato" doughnut. 

A good recipe for potato doughnuts 
Ingredients By measure By weight 

Sugar 1| cups 300 grams 

Butter 2 tablespoons 24 " 

Eggs 2 eggs 96 " 

Hot riced potatoes 1 cup 224 " 

Milk I cup 163 " 

Flour 5.3 cups 600 " 

Baking powder 4 tablespoons 40 " 

Salt 1 teaspoon 5 " 

Cinnamon 1 teaspoon 2 " 

Nutmeg I teaspoon I5 " 

Doughnuts of this mixture, rolled \ inch thick and cut with \\ inch 
center hole, then fried for one and one-half minutes submerged in fat 
at 185°C., absorbed only from 15 to 17 per cent fat; while if allow^ed to 
float for three minutes, the mixture absorbs as high as 30 per cent of 
fat, in some tests. 

4. A temperature of 185°C. was found to be very satisfactory for 
irying doughnuts. Doughnuts of average standard size and weight 
(about 32 grams of dough), having a center hole 1| inches in diameter, 
require about 3 minutes to fry at this temperature if allowed to float, 
and about one and one-half minutes if submerged in the hot fat during 
fr^-ing. 

5. For the best quality of doughnuts the dough should be of fine 
texture but rather soft and smooth, and handled as little as possible. 

6. The time of frying has as much influence as any one factor in con- 
trolling fat absorption. Frying at too low a temperature and thus 
requiring a longer period of cooking, frying doughnuts that are too 
thick and require a long time to thoroughly cook through, or lea\dng 
the doughnut in the fat too long, due to poor judgment on the part of 
the cook as to when the product is done, all tend to produce a doughnut 
uimecessarily high in fat. For the woman who fries doughnuts often, 
some simple device, such as a frying basket of appropriate size, by 
means of which she can keep her doughnuts completely submerged during 
frying, may prove to be a worth while investment; for by such a device 
she can reduce the time of frying practically one-half and the fat absorp- 
tion considerably, and produce a doughnut of superior quality and 
appearance. However, this process cannot be recommended for large 
or thick doughnuts or for those which tend to "swell shut" in cooking. 



316 THE JOtTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS D^ly 

HOUSEKEEPING UNDER CHARLES II 

In the librar}- at the headquarters of the Society of Friends at Bishops- 
gate, there is now preserved an interesting manuscript, rescued from 
the hands of a grocer before he had been able to use more than a few- 
pages of it for waste paper. This is the household account book of 
Sarah Fell, one of the step-daughters of the famous Quaker, George Fox. 
The book covers the period from 1673 to 1678, and a reprint has been 
published by the Cambridge University Press. 

Shopping was done at Ulverston and Dalton on weekly market 
days, but much had to be brought from Lancaster, twenty miles 
away across treacherous river estuaries, and horsed messengers were 
constantly being sent to Kendal and Kirby Lonsdale. Brown sugai, 
oranges, and gloves were received from London. Purchases of beeswax 
for candle wick indicate how the house was lighted. It was largely 
heated by local peat. Cost of carriage made coal prohibitive; as 
much as £l 2s. 5d. was paid for 3 qrs., and again £1 8s. for 4 qrs. — ■ 
money having four or five times its depreciated value of today. The 
Quaker household had \\ine, ale, and brandy, and medicinal aids included 
cinnamon waters, juniper berries, saffron, and *'treakle" blooding leeches. 
There is an entr}' concerning tobacco pipes for Sister Susannah. 

Sarah Fell and her sisters did not restrict themselves to sober grey; 
green, black, and white ribbons were purchased to lighten the Quaker 
dress; stockings were dyed sea-green and sky colour, and a petticoat, 
dove colour; Sarah had her muffs, Sister Rachael her whisk, ornecker- 
chief, and Susannah was gratified by a Httle pocket looking-glass. 

It is impossible to deduce, from wages paid alone, the real position 
of domestic and farm helps. Anne Standis's wage for a year was £1 17s. 
6d., but she restored 8s. for a silver spoon lost, and 6d. for a pot broken. 
What modern lady help, one wonders, would give up nearly three 
months' wage for a lost spoon? — but times have changed. In the 
hayfield women received only a penny a day each; boys harrowing for 
thirty days had only a halfpenny each day. The marketing of the 
dairy produce of Swarthmoor appears to have been entrusted wholly 
to a woman servant, Elin Pollard, whose wage was £2 a year. Wage 
rates were fixed by the justices at Quarter Sessions, and it was a terrible 
offence to ask for more, though, as servants then mostly lived in or 
enjoyed estate cottages, there were many small ameliorations of their 
lot. Meat and drink were given to all day workers, evidently to greater 
value than the penny or two they received in coins. — The Table. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONSUMER FOR FOOD 
STANDARDS AND PRICES 

AGNES FAY MORGAN 

(Concludedy 

Bleaching of jioiir. Another case, equally striking, is the famous 
bleached flour controversy. Of late years a demand for a very white 
wheat flour has come from the consumer. The millers responded with 
a refined flour bleached to an unnatural degree of whiteness by means 
of a poisonous gas, nitrogen peroxide. Certain minuie quantities of 
the resulting nitrites were shown to be retained in the finished product, 
to the supposed detriment of the health of the consumer. The nitrite 
process of bleaching was then forbidden by various state laws. A Min- 
nesota mill carried the matter to the Supreme Court of the United States 
in 1914, and there obtained a decision that the mere presence of nitrites 
was not sufficient for condemnation of a shipment of flour, but that the 
presence of the poisonous substance in sufficient amounts to prove dele- 
terious to the health of those eating it must be proved. This decision 
plainly puts the burden of proof upon the food official, demands demon- 
strations by expensive experiment, and on the whole reverses a good deal 
of the progress that had been made in the matter of preservative regula- 
tion. This same decision may be applied no doubt to the dried fruit 
matter, to the use of saccharin and dyes, and to many other mooted 
questions. The point to be made here, however, is that a cheap grade 
of flour artificially bleached to the appearance of a high grade article 
might under the law be foisted on the public at the discretion of the man- 
ufacturer. If such fraud is detected it may be punished, of course, but 
detection is difficult. The consumer asks for this white flour and gets it. 
All this is in spite of the fact that those grades of flour which retain more 
of the exterior coverings of the wheat grain and so have a darker color 
are usually thought to be of considerably more value in a nutritive sense 
than the superrefined flours, since greater quantities of ash and vitamines 
are retained in the former. 

' The first installment of this article appeared in May. 

317 



318 THE joxmNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

War bread. Our twelve months' experience with war bread seems to 
have pointed the lesson of the value of flours less highly milled than 
those formerly thought palatable. Certainly the questions of bran or 
no bran, 56 per cent or 80 per cent milling of the wheat berry, were thor- 
oughly thrashed out, authorities being aligned in awesome array on both 
sides. The United States Food Administration adopted a conser\^ative 
position, eventually ruling that the flour sold should contain 74 per cent 
of the wheat. This meant a more uniform and slightly higher extraction 
than had been the American standard, but produced a fairly white flour 
which, in combination with flour from other grains, especially rice and 
barley, made an acceptable war bread. 

Artificial coloring matter. The question of the use of coloring matter 
in foods is only nominally concerned with the public health. Certain 
aniline dyes are allowed by the federal law, as well as the law of Cali- 
fornia, to be used in foodstuffs, provided their purity is certified to, and 
their presence i: confessed on the label. Natural or vegetable colors 
are allowed also, out greening by copper of canned vegetables and pickles 
has been forbidden. An actually poisonous substance is of course 
involved here. Ketchup, maraschino cherries, oleomargarine, butter, 
cheese, noodles, macaroni and other alimentary pastes, are the foods 
most frequently colored. A recent decision forbids the coloring of maca- 
roni, noodles, and other alimentary pastes because of the alleged fraud 
involved. Highly colored butter, oleomargarine, and cheese are de- 
manded by the consumer, and so in spite of the tax on colored margarine, 
for instance, artificial addition of color to these foods is practiced and 
allowed. 

Artificial flavors. Saccharin. Synthetic or artificial flavors are used 
chiefly in extracts and softs drinks and may be said to have little hygienic 
significance except for the destruction of natural flavor in foods, and the 
miseducation of the taste of the consumer. The use of saccharin, a coal 
tar product of no food value, but 550 times sweeter than cane sugar, 
has been a mooted question. The federal law and most state laws for- 
bid its use as a fraud, and as deleterious to the public health. It may be 
used, however, for medicinal purposes. A few years ago the Supreme 
Court of Missouri ruled that it might be used, a decision based probably 
on the bleached flour ruling. The substitution of saccharin for sugar is 
probably to be considered dangerous chiefly because of the false food 
value so enforced, since the sweet taste of sugar without the food value 
of the sugar may cheat the consumer into a feeling of satiety without 
any real alimentation. 



1921] RESPONSIBILITY FOR FOOD STANDARDS AND PRICES 319 

The constant use of saccharin by large numbers of people in Europe 
during the war, however, seems to have shown that even in fairly large 
amounts the drug has no detectable deleterious effect. Fortunately its 
unpleasant aftertaste acts as a safety stop on its excessive use, so that 
maximum doses have probably seldom been taken. 

Cost of pure food laws. In molding public opinion on this matter of 
the use of colors and preservatives, we must remember the economic 
as well as the hygienic side. Waste of food that is edible should be 
avoided, and the crusaders' spirit of reform at any cost must be restrained 
in the interest of those below the line of choice in the matter of food. 
Dr. Wiley's campaign against every kind of sophistication was a splendid 
achievement, for which we should be duly appreciative, but his white 
heat of fervor in the quest of the holy grail of the absolutely pure food 
product has cost the consumer something. Sane conservation of all 
safe edible food should be the slogan of the modern food official. 

The examination of food handlers for communicable diseases. The 
third hygienic aspect 6f the food laws, that concerned with the preven- 
tion of the spread of disease, is one which has unfortunately been much 
neglected until recently. Many states and most municipalities have 
regulations as to the employment of persons suffering from communi- 
cable diseases in factories, stores, or restaurants handling foods. Such 
regulations have been practically a dead letter, chiefly because of the 
lack of funds to enforce them. The public has been apathetic on this 
point, a matter presumably of more vital importance than the com- 
paratively insignificant question of preservatives. The spread of syph- 
ilis, tuberculosis, and typhoid fever is peculiarly concerned, since per- 
sons suffering with these diseases may be up and about, engaged in their 
daily tasks, for a considerable length of time. The matter of typhoid 
carriers is a serious menace. A case at Hanford, California, was reported 
some years ago, in which ninety-seven persons had contracted typhoid 
fever from eating food prepared by a woman who was a typhoid car- 
rier, though she had never exhibited the symptoms of the disease herself, 
but had merely nursed her daughter through an attack thirty-five years 
before. 

The state sanitary code of California has a section stating that persons 
suffering from communicable diseases shall not be employed where foods 
are handled. Small pro\ision is made for its enforcement, and it is safe 
to assume that as a state measure, particularly in rural communities, it 
is a dead letter. Municipal conditions are better, but public opinion 



320 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

in this matter is deplorably lax. The ethics of the medical profession 
add to the difficulties, since reporting infectious disease has not yet been 
incorporated completely into that code. In the matter of syphilis and 
venereal diseases in general the physician's inherited instinct to protect 
his patient may work aginst the public good. Until public opinion de- 
mands legislation, and more particularly appropriations for enforcement 
of regulations requiring health certificates for all his employees from 
every food manufacturer and retailer, this unfortunate condition will 
continue. The instinct lor decency as well as the need for protection 
against possible infection is concerned in this as in all questions pertaining 
to cleanliness in foods. 

The fourth hygienic aspect is one only contemplated so far by the 
laws. According to Dr. Alsberg, chief of the Bureau of Chemistry of the 
United States Department of Agriculture, and successor to Dr. Wiley, 
the food laws pro\ide the following protection lo the consumer: 

(1) Nothing injurious, poisonous, or deleterious to health must be 
added to food. 

(2) There must be no imposition, false pretense, or fraud perpetrated 
on the consumer. 

(3) No sound wholesome food or food ingredients must be kept from 
the consumer. 

'' Devitalized foods^' and deficiency diseases. This last point covers the 
matter of the devitalization, denaturation, or ''robbing" of foods. A 
case specifically covered by the federal law is that of "polished rice." 
Recent investigations have shown that certain classes of people in Asia 
and the Philippines entirely dependent on rice for food exhibit many 
cases of a peculiar disease called beri-beri. This disease, similar in char- 
acter to neuritis, has been shown to be the result of deficient nutrition, 
following the use of pohshed rice as an almost exclusive food. Polished 
rice is rice from which the outer red husks or pericarp have been removed, 
and the inner grain coated or not, as the case may be, with talcum and 
glucose. When unpolished rice, fresh meat, fresh milk, or fresh vege- 
tables were fed to these patients the disease disappeared. The sub- 
stance usually called vitamine, removed in the rice polishing, is present 
in exceedingly small amounts, but seems to be indispensable for the main- 
tenance of health. The matter of stringent legislation as to the sale of 
such pohshed rice in this country cannot be considered a vital issue, for 
probably very few persons in the United States subsist on rice alone. 
The number that might be subject to the deficiency diseases resulting 
from lack of the rice vitamines is therefore ver>' small. Over seventy of 



1921] RESPONSIBILITY FOR FOOD STANDARDS AND PRICES 321 

the crew of one of the German cruisers interned at Norfolk, Virginia, in 
1915, exhibited the disease of beri-beri, probably because of their sub- 
sistence for such a long time on canned and on salt foods during their 
dodge around the world after war was declared. 

Pellagra. Another disease, now found frequently in the south of this 
country and said to be spreadmg to the north, is pellagra. Recent 
investigations by the United States Department of Public Health have 
showTi that this, too, is probably a disease of diet deficiency, the result 
of the continued use of musty cereals, salt pork, syrups, and cheap 
canned foods. 

Regulation of canning, milling, and like processes of food preparation 
seems to be indicated as an additional factor of safety for the public 
health, especially for the promotion of proper growth of children. Such 
regulation is already under consideration by food officials but the whole 
matter is in the melting pot, the findings being as yet contradictory and 
incomplete. Boiled milk comes under the searchlight in this same re- 
spect, since scurvy and rickets in children are known to be disturbances in 
nutrition, even though they have not been shown conclusively to be 
diseases resulting from deficiency in diet. 

War scurvy. Many cases of scurvy among both the military and 
civilian populations of Europe were reported during the war, and as- 
cribed to the unsatisfactory character of the food supply. These cases 
are recorded as having occurred among French, Italian, German, and 
Russian troops, British troops in Macedonia, orphaned children in 
Vienna and Prague, and middle-aged civilians in Glasgow. The total 
number of sufferers is probably much greater than the sum of those 
which happen to have been published in the medical journals. 

The prevalence of scurvy in the British navy, as well as in the British 
army in the East, was such that the research staff of the Lister Institute 
in London has devoted a large part of its energy for several years to in- 
vestigations into the cause and prevention of the disease. These inves- 
tigators, most of them women, have showTi that scur\y is probably a 
true deficiency disease, caused by the absence from the diet of a definite 
vitamine, which has been called "water-soluble C." This substance is 
present in varying amounts in fresh fruits and vegetables, germs of 
grams and of other foods, and may be impaired or destroyed by cookmg 
or canning. Cahfornians are interested in the fact that citrus fruits, 
particularly lemons and oranges, are especially rich in water-soluble C, 
even though prunes and plums are probably largely lacking in this respect. 
Fresh milk and lean meat apparently are not well supplied with this sub- 



322 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Stance, and must therefore be supplemented by vegetables and fruits in 
order to provide a safe diet. Generalizations on this subject are not 
yet entirely justified, however, for new data are constantly being brought 
forward. 

"Fat-soluble vitatnine." A word should be added concerning the 
existence and the function of a third vitamine known as the fat-soluble 
vitamine, since it is usually found in the fat fraction of foods. This 
substance apparently is indis^ ^nsable for the growth of the young, and 
its absence from the diet has of late been associated with the appearance 
of rickets. It is plain that fats of vegetable origin contain little or none 
of this accessory substance, but that milk fat, cod liver oil, egg yolk fat, 
are rich in it. Some quantity is found also in beef suet and in mutton 
fat (although not in lard) and in green leafy vegetables. The provision 
of the comparatively expensive foods which carry this substance is a 
serious problem at present in Europe. Even in England the prevalence 
of rickets and other forms of malnutrition am^ong the children of the 
poor must be contemplated with alarm. 

Certain butter substitutes such as the nut butters are entirely lacking 
in the fat-soluble vitamine. while others made partly of milk fat and 
beef oleo oil contain a fair proportion of it. The choice for the diet of 
children is obviously in favor of the latter. Yet the manufacturers of 
nut butter are able actually to increase the sale of their product by 
proudly proclaiming it to be "free from animal fats." 

The economic aspects of the food laws. In addition to the need for 
protection of the public health there has developed the very real problem 
of protection against economic fraud in foods and drugs. Such frauds 
may involve deception either in quantity or in quality of articles offered 
for sale. For the prevention of gross fraud in the former matter there 
are of course duly appointed county or city sealers of weights and measures, 
who inspect the weighing and measuring of foods and other commodities 
sold in bulk. 

The information on the label. Until recent years there was no protec- 
tion against variations in goods sold under the manufacturer's seal in 
proprietary packages. Since 1916, however, following the enforcement 
of the famous Food Inspection Decision 154, all containers, of any kind, 
of foods sold either at wholesale or retail, must declare in conspicuous 
lettering the net weight, measure, or count, of the contents in terms of 
the largest unit of such weight or measure contained therein. In addi- 
tion proprietary food labels must carry the name of manufacturer and 



1921] RESPONSIBILITY FOR FOOD STANDARDS AND PRICES 323 

place of manufacture, and, if mixtures or compounds, a statement to that 
effect. As a result of the older legislation artificial coloring, flavoring, 
per cent of potent drugs, amount of allowed preservative, must also be 
plainly printed on the label. 

There can be no doubt that enforcement of these reasonable rules 
about the labelling of food packages has had an incalculable value in 
raising the standard of foodstuffs offered in the market. It has likewise 
aided in raising the cost of such foodstuffs, largely by eliminating much 
of the doubtful but stimulating competition of former times. The mush- 
room type of manufacture is displaced, as a result of these requirements, 
by the highly organized, efficient, and profitable modern plants. More 
uniform and constantly better products are offered to the public at a 
constantly rising price. 

Read the label. A rather discouraging feature of label regulation is the 
consistency with which the consumer who has demanded protection 
and is apparently eager to pay for it refuses to take advantage of it by 
reading the label. A clever baking powder "expert" stated not long 
ago that she had asked dozens of audiences of club women what the 
ingredients of their favorite baking powders were, and found usually only 
one or two women out of a hundred who even knew that these ingredi- 
ents were declared on the label of the can. The full value of the higher 
price paid for better foods cannot be realized, of course, until the new 
generation of intelligent purchasers discriminates between that which 
is allowable legally and that which is the best and the most that can be 
produced for the price. The necessary information is on the label. 

Misleading advertising. In spite of the very commendable progress 
that has been made by the advertising trade or profession toward truth- 
fulness and dependableness in published statements, there remains con- 
siderable room for improvement. The strict control of claims on the 
label of package goods has resulted in the wide use, by certain interests, 
of booklets, billboards, demonstrators, and other means of advertising 
separate from the label. In some cases amusing differences between 
claims on the label and in the accompanying leaflet were noted. Baking 
powders, because of keen competition for a business with high profits, 
and breakfast foods are among the more easily recalled instances. 

A most potent influence in the development of high prices for food 
has been the campaign of certain advertisers for the education of the con- 
sumer to the belief in the exceptional nutritive, sanitary, and gustatory 
merit of certain high priced products. Examples of slogans used in 



324 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

these campaigns will occur to the reader at once. "Heart of corn," 
"food shot from guns," "shced bacon," "beans with a college education," 
are a few of the illogical but apparently efifective descriptions used. All 
these products are sold in packages, are dependable, acceptable, often 
guaranteed goods, but cost from 50 to 500 per cent more than their 
humbler equally nutritious com.petitors sold in bulk. 

No thoughtful person would advocate the return to the unstandard- 
ized and unreliable caveat i mptor condition which prevailed before the 
day of the food officii 1 and the national advertiser, but it should be 
clearly recognized that, in some degree as a result of such advertising, 
the high cost of li\dng may be written cost of high living. With a large 
proportion of the population thus constantly admonished to buy only 
the certified package, and acting on that advice regardless of cost, little 
progress toward downward trend of prices of food can be expected. The 
writer offers no solution other than popular education for the problem 
which is thus presented, for no other is possible. It is desired simply 
to bring this angle of vision upon rising food prices to the attention of 
the reader. 

The possibiUty of putting on the market clean reliable foods in bulk 
has been demonstrated, but the profit in such business is apt to be too 
widely and evenly distributed among producers and dealers to offer 
as great allurement to business as does package monopoly. We see of 
late even oranges, apples, and nuts put up in trade-marked wrappers 
and nationally advertised by the producers' associations. The foods 
thus marketed are no better than similar fruits and nuts commanding 
the same or a lower price without a trade-mark, but they present the 
advantage to the consumer of insured uniformity. For the producer 
they form the basis of a specialized and carefully fostered demand upon 
which may be constructed a higher level of retail prices. 

The disadvantage of such education of taste to those economically 
below the level of choice is evident. Since the demand for dependable 
lower priced foods is decreased in favor of de luxe articles, less competi- 
tion and production in the former lines ensue, and their price is gradually 
levelled up to that of the advertised product. 

A wider dissemination of knowledge of the nutritive value of foods 
might well be undertaken to combat the miseducation in such matters 
which the food advertisers have more or less consciously brought about. 
If it became generally understood that only a more pleasing flavor can 
be bought with the higher price of prepared cereals, olive oil, trade- 



1921] RESPONSIBILITY FOR FOOD STANDARDS AND PRICES 325 

marked fruit, and similar products, and that even this is sometimes only 
the psychological reaction of taste to the repeated statement of the 
advertiser, a more rational balance between supply and demand might 
result. Nature produces both perfect foods and culls in some degree, 
in spite of the most enlightened agriculture, but the modern American 
consumer refuses to make use of either perfect product or cull until an 
astute manufacturer has given them a fancy name and a package habi- 
tation. 

Ready cooked foods. Another aspect of the increasing use of package 
goods is the tendency of the housewife as well as the institution steward 
to purchase more and more food in ready-to-serve form. Steam cooked 
cereals, canned vegetables and fruits, canned soups, can be obtained only 
in trade-marked packages. Hominy, cabbage, sauerkraut, and apple 
sauce are among the recent additions to the canned goods which continue 
the upward trend of price for the humblest foods. The can, the labor of 
canning, and the canner's profit are included in the higher price, but the 
consumer has less work to do in preparing the food for the table. Aside 
from all question as to effect upon nutrition of the increasing use of auto- 
claved foods, the effect of this demand upon food prices should be noted. 
The tendency toward preparation of food for the table in large quantity 
by manufacturing concerns rather than in the individual kitchen may 
be considered established, and on the whole is to be commended and 
encouraged. But this demand adds its bit to the rising cost of foods. 

False advertising. The most vicious examples of false advertising 
are to be found not among claims made for foods but in support of patent 
medicines. This unprincipled exploitation of ignorance and misery which 
was rampant in America twenty years ago is now somewhat curbed by 
the vigorous action of the council of chemistry and pharmacy of the 
American Medical Association. The laboratory maintained by this 
association for the purpose of analyzing the compounds and exposing 
the fraudulent claims of makers of medicine has functioned chiefly by 
education of the medical profession. Label legislation has aided in this 
matter, but we have still a vast flood of dishonest and tragicaUy amusing 
advertising of patent medicine. The better class of newspapers and 
magazines refuse to print the worst of it, but somehow much of it still 
gets before the eye of the gulHble public. 

Protection against this kind of imposition is costly, and not yet avail- 
able. As in the case of foods the legitimate products left on the market 
must bear the cost of the whole proceeding. Fortunately, however, in 
this case no irreducible minimum must be consumed. 



326 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [J^ly 

The ''water-glass test" It is interesting to note the vigorous manner 
in which unfair advertising methods are combated by the manufacturer 
or dealers whose business may be hurt by such methods. The long 
fought egg albumen case among the baking powders comes to mind in 
this connection. Certain baking powder concerns introduced a minute 
amount of dried egg white into their powder, then used the prolonged 
foaming with water, the "water-glass" test, which is thus secured, in their 
claim to superior leavenmg power. The claim was of course spurious, but 
could be supported by visual demonstration to the conviction of the 
housewife. Competitors of tliese firms immediately launched wide- 
spread and tremendously costly advertising and litigation against the 
de\dce, with \drtuous indignation over the trick as the main motif. 
Similar tricks are today constantly before the eyes of the public with 
no impartial tribunal to prevent them or even to point them out. 

Contrary to our experience in practically all other movements toward 
legal control oi' food and drug sales, we might find that a vigorous en- 
forcement of a sane advertising censorship might help to reduce instead 
of increase food prices. The opposition of the press to such a move has 
so far made its accompHshment impossible. The slow process of edu- 
cation of all the people, considerably aided by the teaching of domestic 
science in the schools, might be supplemented advantageously by careful 
control of the daily printed directors of thought. The consumer's 
demand for protection must be irresistible before the involved and scat- 
tered interests and ethics of the advertising business can be controlled. 

The consumer, through his goverimient representatives and his own 
purchasing choice, has in the last fifteen years demanded better foods, 
conforming to uniform standards, put up in pleasing packages, as far 
as possible ready to eat, and of the brand most widely advertised at the 
moment. He has insisted that the weight be declared on the label, that 
the smallest amount possible of preservatives or artificial flavorings and 
colorings be used, that "substitutes" be avoided, and that only the super- 
product of the farm be brought to his door. He has cared a little as to 
the bacterial history of employees in food concerns, and has taken heed 
of the claims of the pseudo "food expert" with an axe to grind. In 
consequence of these demands a cleaner, more appetizing, if no more 
nutritious food supply is in our markets, and its price is rapidly passing 
beyond our means. 



EDITORIAL 

"Successful Family Life on a Moderate Income,"' written by so 
scientific a student of social economics as Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel, 
is an excellent contribution to our home economics literature. 

We have needed such a book for a long time. We need more and more 
of them for the homemakers, both men and women, who are diligently 
seeking definite aid in their homemaking problems. This is not a book of 
mere directions. It is that much greater thing, an inspiring, helpful 
discussion of the meaning of family Hfe and the basis upon which it rests 
as a successful enterprise. 

The opening paragraph states the problem in the questions propounded, 
which are discussed to helpful determination and suggestions later on. 
"What is success and how are the great number of families, living on the 
average income in this country, to win it? How are they to obtain 
development and happiness? Are any principles to be laid down, and 
examples cited? Are 'disruptive tendencies' as great as has been 
claimed?" 

Mrs. Abel has written far more than a text book although the form of 
analysis of each chapter by questions admirably fits it for this. She 
has presented an exposition of the ultimate purpose of homemaking while 
giving practical aid to the solution of its economic problems. The right 
kind of citizens can come only from the right kind of homes, and no busi- 
ness is rightly conducted until it is economically sound. There must be a 
full comprehension of this truth by all the teachers of home economics. 
They must first see the purpose and meaning of family life before they can 
properly present the means for its accompUshment. In no other book 
which has come to my knowledge have these things been so well pre- 
sented or so adequately discussed. 

It was a fortunate day for the home economics movement when it took 
up the spending of the family money as a serious study. It vitalizes all the 
processes of daily life and is found to have deep root in ethics as well as 
economics. Men acquire knowledge, skill, power over material things and 
yet go to pieces because of lack of purpose. The eye must be fixed on the 
goal. To know what you want is to know very soon what you cannot have, 
and with a clear aim in view, miracles are wrought out of unpromising 

' See also book note, page 332. 

327 



328 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

beginnings; new ideas of thrift are adopted, there is new stimulus to earn in 
outside ways, the judgment as to value grows apace. The difference soon 
appears between mere wishing for a good and that passionate desire for it 
which moves to sacrifice for its sake. The best system of ethics is mere 
theory until it comes to living it out, for it may be truly said that sacrifice 
is the measure of devotion; we really desire a thing only so far as we are 
^^dlling to give up other things for it. (Chapter 16, page 90.) 

The chapters devoted to the family budget naturally attract one whose 
belief is that home economics teaching, whether in class room, on lecture 
platform, or in magazme articles, should to a degree center about this 
basic plan. They are concise, helpful, and admirable. 

Between now and the next census- taking, women must accomplish at 
least one definite task. This is the estabHshment of the business of home- 
making, or the woman's part in it, as a gainful occupation. Until this 
is done the economics of family life proceed from^ a wrong premise. 

Women who are not receiving wages from sources outside the home are 
all classed as unoccupied although among them are found the housewives who 
are true producers of wealth in the newer sense; that is, they create utilities 
that satisfy human needs. Out of raw materials they produce the finished 
product, not only in food and clothing but in immaterial forms that make up 
the ver>^ character and atmosphere of home. They are the makers of the 
intimate things of life. (Chapter 6, page 43.) 

No other portions of Mrs. Abel's book are better presented than those 
which deal with "The Housewife's Contribution as Buyer and Manager, " 
and "The Mother's Contribution to her Children." 

Two venerations ago when there was so little ready made, all departments 
of practical life had to be conquered in the home. By and through the in- 
dustries carried on for the support of the family, as in the farm home, a 
school of life was in progress, and the precious inheritance of standards and 
customs, the very foundations of national character, was being formed and 
handed on. The working mother of our moderate income family today is 
doing actual housework and she must continue to do it until conditions rad- 
ically change, for it is at present, as we have seen, the most feasible way 
of making her neccessar>^ contribution to the income; and it is this fact 
which gives her a substantial advantage in child training which she must 
learn to use. (Chapter 10, page 111.) 

We have long wanted this book, and all exponents of true home eco- 
nomics theory and practice will rejoice that Mrs. Richards' warm friend 
and true follower has been the one to give it to us. 

Helen Louise Johnson. 



1921] OPEN FORUM 329 

OPEN FORUM 

An Answer to "The Extensionized Farm Woman." Having read 
the article by Mrs. Gilbert on the "Extensionized Farm Woman" I 
desire to commend it for the accuracy of knowledge displayed concerning 
farm home conditions and the sincere desire manifested in it toward 
everything that will improve such conditions and at the same time 
lighten the burdens of the housewife. It carries with it many stron^y 
arguments for the home extension service and was undoubtedly intended 
to be constructive and helpful in this direction. 

Feeling that the few critical notes sounded in her article are based 
upon misunderstanding or misapprehension of the real attitude of the 
home extension workers, as I know it from observations in the field 
as well as from personal acquaintance with both state and national 
leaders, and from conferences with them relating to the whole home 
extension program, I venture to point out where, in my opinion, Mrs. 
Gilbert incorrectly interprets the aims and purposes of this fine new 
aid to home building. 

In the first place, the statement that the city home \dewpoint is the 
basis of judgment of rural homes is not in accord with the attitude of 
home extension workers as I have seen it. The whole program is set 
up and the whole force is organized with the rural home \dewpoint in 
mind and a large percentage of the force have come from countr}^ homes. 
This is the fundamental idea in building up the extension ser^dce. It 
is comparatively new and some workers may have gone out who do not 
correctly interpret country life, but they are the exception rather than 
the rule and should not be made the basis of any expressed or implied 
criticism of the whole force. 

My impression of home extension agents is that their work fits most 
admirably into Mrs. Gilbert's idea of the home as a "business institu- 
tion." The earlier idea of the home extension worker as a teacher of 
frills, furbelows, fancy dishes, and fol-de-rols is put to shame by the 
intensely practical and helpful program of the present working force. 
Short cuts in housework, time and labor-saving de\dces, food values, 
health hints, kitchen surveys, care of sick are illustrative of the work 
they now do. Surely this all points to "business." Assuredly this 
conforms to the modern ideas of efficiency. In this same connection 
one of the finest pieces of work done is the carr}dng of original ideas 
and plans from one resourceful housewife to another. I do not think, in 



330 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

view of the actual work done by a large percentage of extension workers, 
that Mrs. Gilbert's implication that they emphasize non-essentials is 
entirely fair. 

In passing it might be timely to say that the great "business" of 
the home is not the accumulation of dollars or property as an end. 
Woman's great business is not primarily to increase income but rather 
is to maintain a comfortable and happy home in which children are 
trained to become useful citizens. 

Canning all surplus food was a war time measure urged in the interest 
of conservation. Quantity was the war time slogan. The methods 
developed are as timely today as in war times and mistakes in quantity 
should not be laid up against extension agents. A variety of fresh meats 
is liable to be lacking on the farmer's table in the summer and a variety 
of vegetables also lacking in the winter imless canned in the proper 
season. Preparing these for the table in quantities involves a sa\dng 
of time and fuel, and enables one to meet sudden emergencies in the 
preparation of meals. 

In urging that women buy more clothing ready made Mrs. Gilbert 
is flying in the face of the testimony of experts that no family of less 
than S1500 annual income can afford to hire sewing done. The farm 
labor income is far below the figure as an average. It is apparent 
therefore that the home sewing will continue for many years in the 
larger nujnber of American homes and every aid to better selection of 
colors and materials and every device which will enable homemakers 
to become more skillful and expeditious in such tasks is practical in the 
truest sense. 

One of our leading statesmen has recently said that the small farm 
home under ideal conditions is the safest and best unit of our civiliza- 
tion. We join heartily with Mrs. Gilbert in urging comforts and con- 
veniences in farm homes, and income from the business of farming 
which will make such comforts possible. We beHeve that the home 
demonstration agents are a great force in searching out and keeping 
continuously before our people the things that are vital in working 
out such a program and we beHeve eyery farm woman should support 
the new movement heartily by words of commendation, constructive 
criticism, and suggestions for improvement. 

Mrs. John C. Ketcham, 
Chairman Home Economics, National Grange. 

Hastings, Mich. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



American Red Cross Course in Food Selec- 
tion. Headquarters, American Red Cross. 
Washington, D. C. 1921, pp. 100. Fifty 
cents. 

The lessons are prepared primarily for 
Red Cross classes in food selection, but can 
be used by all women who are interested in 
the problem of feeding the family. The 
course embraces a study of foods and the 
factors that must be considered in selecting 
an adequate diet. It aims to give a knowl- 
edge of foods and food groups which will 
enable the housekeeper to modify her selec- 
tion of food to suit the needs of the indivi- 
dual members of the family. The lessons 
include quite full discussions of food and 
its use in the body, and the more important 
food materials, such as milk, vegetables, 
fruits, and cereals. One lesson gives a con- 
venient method for the calculation of the 
dietary; another discusses feeding in special 
cases, including feeding in illness. The sub- 
jects of infant feeding and food for the child 
from two to sixteen years of age receive con- 
siderable attention. 

As the lessons are intended for use in Red 
Cross classes, it is expected that the instruc- 
tor will contribute much to their value. At 
the same time the person working alone will 
be able to comprehend most of the subject 
matter, and to review each lesson in the light 
of the topics suggested for class discussion. 
The home work assigned in connection 
with each lesson will be helpful to any house- 
keeper who is of an investigative turn of 
mind. Detailed suggestions for demonstra- 
tions, and valuable food tables are contained 
in an appendix. Supplementary to the lists 
of bulletins given in connection with the les- 
sons, there is a brief annotated bibliography 
of books of reference. 

In the foreword acknowledgment and 
thanks are gratefully extended to the Office 



of Home Economics, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, for its generous and untiring 
cooperation in the preparation of this pam- 
phlet; to Mabel T. Wellman, Head of De- 
partment of Home Economics, Indiana Uni- 
versity, to Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Editor 
of Journal of Home Economics, to Dr. 
Dorothy Reed JVIendenhall, Children's Bu- 
reau, authors of the lessons of which these 
are an elaboration; to Dr. Ruth \\Tieeler, 
Head of the Department of Home Economics, 
Goucher College, for helpful suggestions and 
criticisms. 

The Community Health Problem. By Athel 

C. BuRNHAM, M.D. New York: The 

Macmillan Co., 1920, pp. 149. 

Beginners in public health work will be 
grateful to Dr. Burnham for this brief 
outline of the public health problem. The 
author uses the term "community" to 
include the entire nation and does not 
confine it to a particular neighborhood 
limited in area and composed of a fairly 
homogeneous population. "Community 
health schemes" as we now understand 
them, such as the Cincinnati Social Unit 
experiment and the Framingham demon- 
stration, are indeed briefly discussed, but 
more general types of health ser\-ice, such 
as public health nursing, the organization 
of federal, state, and municipal health 
departments, industrial medicine, school 
medical inspection, and, finally, health 
insurance and socialized medicine, receive 
most attention. 

To attempt to cover so wide a field in 
so small a volume has naturally resulted 
in serious omissions. The discussion of 
parental and child welfare work, which 
because of its preventive nature now stands 
in the forefront of public health work, is 
particularly scant. The only reference to 

331 



332 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



defective nutrition is a brief discussion of 
the Dunfermline scale of grading nutrition 
and the number of children found in each 
grade in New York City. The rapid 
development of nutrition classes and the 
work of visiting dietitians in correcting 
bad food and health habits which impair 
nutrition are entirely neglected. Such an 
oversight is hardly excusable in the light 
of the important bearing which the treat- 
ment and prevention of defect^e nutrition 
have upon thfe incidence of other illnesses, 
particularly tuberculosis. The chapters on 
workmen's compensation, compulsory health 
insurance, industrial medicine and state 
medicine, while necessarily brief, are well 
handled. A bibliography is appended, but 
here the fault is the same as in the te.xt, 
a far too slight consideration for child 
welfare problems. 

John C. Gebhart, 
The A . I. C. P., New York City. 

Successful Family Life on a Moderate In- 
come. By Mary HI^raIAN Abel. Phil- 
adelphia: J. B. Lippincott Company, 
1921, pp. 256. S2.00. 
This book is one of the series of Home 
Manuals edited by Benjamin R. Andrews. 
Some of the chapter headings will give an 
idea of the content: "The Higher Values 
of Family Life," "The Financial Partner- 
ship," "The Housewife's Contribution as 
Buyer and Manager," "The Family Budget, 
its Purpose, Use afld Aims," "The Look 
Ahead." 

A further discussion of the book will be 
found in the editorial section of this number. 

The Nervous Hotisewife. By Abraham Myer- 

SON, M.D. Boston: Little, Brown and 

Company, 1920, pp. 273. Price S2.25. 

This book offers a stirring challenge to the 

student or teacher of home economics. Its 

title gives no adequate clue to its significance. 

From the first page to the last the modern 

home and the relation of women to it is 

as much the theme as the nervousness of 

the housewife. The connection is clearly 

brought out. The book therefore has inter- 



est and value for a much greater variety of 
persons than the nervous housewife herself, 
or her medical adviser. Every husband will 
find words of wisdom and helpfulness in it. 
Everj' student of home economics who goes 
beyond the arts of cooking and sewing, and 
studies the problems of the home will be 
aroused to new efforts to ferret out and cast 
aside the "inefficiency and waste inseparable 
from individual housekeeping," and find 
means of substituting for the "bad effects 
from the segregation and privacy of the 
home" a more truly social spirit. Dr. Myer- 
son makes a vital point when he states that 
behind the divorce evil is a huge body of 
quarreling and divided homes. Uniform 
divorce laws are not so much what society 
needs as a reorganization of the home, in- 
cluding the relations of the husband and 
wife to each other and their arrangements 
for their children. Leaders in the home 
economics movement must agree with the 
author in the behef that the home must be 
reorganized on the basis that the man and 
woman are equal partners in the relation- 
ship. How this reorganization is to be 
effected is the problem — a worthy one for 
every woman and indeed every man to 
study. 

]\Iarion Talbot, 
The University of Chicago. 

Food and Life. By JMarion Lansing and 
Luther GtrLiCK, M.D. Boston: Ginn 
and Company, 1920, pp. 182. $0.68. 
This little book has the avowed purpose 
of interesting children in the food busi- 
ness and leading them to assume intelligent 
responsibility for their own food habits. It 
is not a textbook but it will prove very use- 
ful for the teacher of home economics, of 
physiology, and of geography. 

The book is written in a charming style 
and includes many short stories, analogies 
and allusions to mythology and history 
which can be used to good advantage in that 
extra five or ten minutes of a lesson which it 
is so important to utilize. The chapters on 
the fuel value of foods are especially sug- 
gestive and the subject of the storage of the 



1921] 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 



333 



energy of the sun in plant and animal cells 
and its subsequent release at need is put in a 
way that will be illuminating to many older 
readers. 

There is the usual material on the choice 
of foods, with pictures and tables of the food 
groups. This is followed with paragraphs on 
definite food habits put in a form which will 
not tend to make children self-conscious. 

There are many echoes of war literature 
in such phrases as "world table," "ration," 
"kitchen service," and there are chapters 
devoted to the school garden army and to 
canning and drying clubs. An especially 
good feature is the chapter on economy of 
food with its lessons in balancing money 
value against food values. 

Each chapter is followed by questions, and 
throughout the book there is a constant 
appeal to action with a stimulus to do as 
well as to know. 

Frances Swain. 

Insects and Human Welfare. By Charles 
Thomas Brues. Harvard University 
Press, 1920, pp. 104, illus. 42. $2.50. 
This slender red volume is a very readable 
collection of five chapters designed to intro- 
duce the general public to the principles and 
practices of economic entomology, especially 
in their biological relationships, being, as 
the cover page advertises, "an account of 
the more important relations of insects to 
the health of man, to agriculture, and to 
forestry." 

Part of the material appeared originally 
in the Scientific Monthly; in its present form 
there are four main chapters entitled In- 



sects and the Public Health (24 p.). Insects 
and the Food Supply (24 p.), Forest Insects 
(24 p.), and Household Insects (14 p.). The 
last chapter is a brief four page summary of 
The Outlook for the Future. 

The major part of the book is therefore 
directly valuable to all interested in home 
economics. Though popularly written, the 
reader is surprised on completing the book, 
to find what a wide range of useful as well 
as interesting information he has acquired. 
It is unfortunate that the present paper sit- 
uation has made it necessary to demand 
$2.50 for this volume, as it will doubtless 
very materially limit the distribution of this 
valuable book among the very people who 
need it most, and so reduce decidedly its 
usefulness. The lack of an index is also 
unfortunate, especially in a book containing 
so much that will be new to its readers. 

The wide scope of these hundred pages 
has been made possible by consistently 
placing the emphasis upon the insects them- 
selves, rather than upon the more technical 
details of their relationships to man, such as 
the species of microorganisms they transfer, 
either accidentally or mechanically or as 
hosts. 

The book closes with a brief and encour- 
aging outlook for the future, summing up 
briefly the various methods of controlling 
insect destruction, the reasons why insect 
spread is less limited than formerly by 
geographical and climatic barriers, and the 
emphasis now properly placed on the bio- 
logical methods of control. 

Jean Broadhurst, 
Teachers College, N. Y. City. 



BIBLIOGR.\PHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

REFERENCES ON BOTULISM 

COMPILED BY MINNA C. DENTON 

For other references see Jour. Home Econ., 11 (1920), No. 4, p. 190 

A merican Food Journal: 

Dodd, W. L. Botulism. 15 (1920), No. 2, p. 12-14. 

Koser, S. A. Bacteriological Study of Canned Ripe Olives. 16 (1921), No. 2, p. 
13-14. 



334 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

American Journal Public Health: 

Amer. Pub. Health Assn. Report of Committee on Preparation, Packing and Trans- 
portation of Food. 11 (1921), Xo. 3, p. 265-268. 
Dickson, E. C. Botuli?m. 10 (1920), No. 11, p. 865-871. 
Archives of Internal Medicine: 

Edmondson, R. B., Giltner, L. T., and Thorn, Charles. Possible Pathogenicity of 

Bacillus Botulinus. 26 (1920), Xo. 3, p. 357-366. 
Shippen, L. P. Toxin Formation by B. Botulinus. 23 (1919), Xo. 3, p. 346-361. 
California State Bd. Health: 

Botulism. Monthly bul. 16 (19''0), Xo. 3. 
Journal of A merican Medical A ^sociation: 

Botulism made Reportable. 75 (1920), Xo. 14, p. 946. 

DeBord, G. G., Edmondson, R. B., and Thom, Charles. Summary of Bur. of Chem. 
Investigations of Poisoning due to Ripe Olives. 74 (1920), No. 18, p. 1220-1221. 
Glancy, J. A. R. Botulism in Yukon. 75 (1920), Xo. 22, p. 152. (Abstract) 
Randall, W. G. Report of Cases of Botulism from Canned Beets at Florence, Ariz. 

75(1920),Xo. l,p.33. 
Sisco, D. L. An Outbreak of Botulism. 74 (1920), Xo. 8, p. 516-521 and No. 10, 
p. 690. 
Journal of Bacteriology: 

Wyant, Z. N. and X'^ormington, Ruth. Influence of \'arious Chemical and Physical 
Agencies upon Bacillus Botulinus and its Spores. 5 (1920), No. 6, p. 553-557. 
Journal of Infectious Diseases: 

Graham, Robert and Schwartze, Herman. A\'ian Botulism (Tj^jc A) or limber neck. 

28 (1921), No. 4, p. 317-322. 
Nevin, Mary. Botulism from Cheese. 28 (1921), No. 3, p. 226-231. 
Weiss, Harr}'. Heat Resistance of Spores unth Special Reference to the Spores of B. 
Botulinus. 28 (1921), No. 1, p. 70-92. 
Journal of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine: 

Emerson, H. W. and Collins, G. W. Botulism from Carmed Ripe Olives. 5 (1920), 
No. 9, p. 559-565. 
Mass. Slate Bd. Health: 

Orr, P. F. Botulism. Commonhealth, 7 (1920), No. 3, p. 175-179. 
Medical Record: 

Randall, G.M. Botulism. 98 (1920), No. 19, p. 763-765. 
Proceedings of Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine: 

Orr, P. F. Some Observations on the Biological Characteristics of Bacillus Botulinus. 
XVH(1919),p.47. 
Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research: 

Dickson. E. C. Botulism. Monograph No. 8, 1918. 
U. S. Public Health Reports: 

Meyer, K. F. and Geiger, J. C. Distribution of the Spores of B. Botulinus in Nature. 
36 (1921), No. 1, p. 46. 
Books: 

Jordan, E. O. Food Poisoning, p. 85-99. Univ. of Chicago Press, 1917. 

Savage, W. G. Food Poisoning and Food Infections, p. 149-158. Cambridge Univ. 

Press, 1920. 
Tanner, F. W. Bacteriology and Mycology of Foods, p. 592. N.Y.: Wiley, 1919. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



American Food Research Institute. 

Announcement has been made by the Car- 
negie Corporation of New York of an agree- 
ment with Leland Stanford University for 
the establishment of a food research insti- 
tute to undertake an intensive study of prob- 
lems connected with the production, distri- 
bution, and consumption of food, utilizing 
the university laboratories so far as neces- 
sary. A grant of $700,000 has been made 
by the corporation for the support of the 
institute during the next ten years, and it is 
hoped to begin operations July 1. Coop- 
eration with existing food research agencies 
is contemplated, and duplication of equip- 
ment is to be avoided so far as possible. 

Press reports attribute the inception of 
the idea to Hon. Herbert Hoover, Secretary 
of Commerce, who will serve as a member of 
the advisory committee. 

The active management of the institute is 
to be vested in a staff of three directors, rep- 
resenting agricultural, human nutrition, and 
economic phases of nutrition. Dr. C. L. 
Alsberg, Chief of the Bureau of Chemistry, 
U. S. Department of Agriculture, has ac- 
cepted the directorship for agriculture, be- 
ginning about June 1; Dr. Alonzo Taylor, 
for human nutrition; Joseph S. Davies of 
Harvard, for economics of nutrition. 

Science Service, a new organization, has 
been substantially endowed and is chartered 
as a non-profit-making corporation. Its con- 
trol is vested in a board of trustees composed 
of ten scientists and five journalists. The 
National Academy of Sciences, The Ameri- 
can Association for the Advancement of Sci- 
ence, and the National Research Council, 
each elect three trustees. 

At the outset Science Service is equipped 
to act in the following capacities: as a clear- 
ing house for news of the scientific world; 



to supply special newspaper or periodical 
articles on scientific subjects of any sort; to 
cover special assignments for newspapers or 
periodicals in the field of science. Offices 
have been opened in the National Research 
Council Building, 1701 Massachusetts Ave- 
nue, Washington. 

" Some Opportunities in Home Eco- 
nomics" a little four-page leaflet, has 
recently been brought* out by the Depart- 
ment of Home Economics, of the University 
of Chicago. It is addressed to the women, 
experienced workers or young graduates, 
who today are asking as never before for 
definite information about lines of advance- 
ment in their fields or about selection of 
their life work. It is designed to help 
these women meet their desire to "fit them- 
selves for the best possible servace to the 
community and to find for themselves a 
well rounded, thoroughly interesting life." 

The opportunities suggested and very 
briefly discussed are those in teaching — 
elementary and high school positions, super- 
\Hision, normal school and university instruc- 
torships, — extension work, social work, busi- 
ness, hospital dietitians, writing, and home- 
making as a profession. The Department 
of Home Economics wall be glad to send 
copies of the leaflet to any one interested. 

At the Pageant of Progress Exposition 

to be held on the Municipal Pier, Chicago, 
July 30 to August 14, Mrs. Minna 
Schmidt, who has studied the history of dress 
in Europe and the Orient, will illustrate the 
development of various styles from the times 
of the early Egyptians, through the Byzan- 
tine and Renaissance periods, up to the 
present day modes. The production of a 
garment from the weaving of the cloth to 
the cutting and sewing of it %vill be one of 

335 



336 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



the features. ^Models will be exhibited to 
point out why modem styles are popular and 
ser\-iceable. 

Progress in mechanical inventions and 
better methods in education and household 
management are to be emphasized in the 
Pageant. 

The educational committee is under the 
leadership of Dr. David Kinley, President of 
the University of Illinois. 



Harvard University is offering a Course 
in Vocational Rehabilitation July 5 to 
August 12. Persons desirous of working 
under the Federal Board, as well as workers 
already in the field, who wish to prepare 
themselves for more successful work, will 
be interested in the course. The work is 
open to both men and women, to college 
graduates, and to those who have not 
obtained a college degree. 



An International Conference on 
Child Welfare is to be held in Brussels, 
under the auspices of the Belgian govern- 
ment, July 18 to 21, 1921. American 
participation in the Conference is much 
desired by the Belgian Committee on 
Organization. The discussions will take 
up the subjects of. Juvenile Delinquents 
and Juvenile Courts, Abnormal Children, 
Social Hygiene of Childhood, and War 
Orphans. 

The New England Home Economics 
Association held its annual meeting, May 
14. at Simmons College. Dr. Martin 
Edwards' address upon The Preservation 
of Health in .-Vdult Life rounded out the 
year's study of health. 

Dr. Edwards decribed the prevalent "fair 
to middlin" efficiency. Health means 100 
per cent efficiency and this means strength 
tiiough for the job, for digestion, for recre- 
ation, and a surplus for the inevitable crises 
of life. Diet and posture are the two prime 
factors which govern health. Health re- 
quires relaxation but not necessarily of 
long duration. "It is not the load you 
carr>' but how you carry it." 

The business meeting followed the address. 
The association voted to affiliate with the 
American Home Economics Association, 
and to contribute annually to the Ellen H. 
Richards Fund. 

The subject for next year's work is to be 
The Relation of Home Economics to the 
Home. 

This meeting closed a most active and 
prosperous year for the association. 



Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, will gi\-e, in the summer session, 
a course in problems of the administrative 
dietitian, dealing with organization and 
equipment of diet kitchens, formula rooms, 
main kitchens and accessory departments; 
administrative duties of a dietitian; hospital 
routine and ethics; dietetics for nurses; 
pupil dietitian training. This course will 
be under the direction of Rena S. Eckman 
and Eleanor Wells. 



The American Home Economics Associa- 
tion participated in the ceremony when the 
National Women's Party presented to Con- 
gress Adelaide Johnson's statue of the three 
suffrage pioneers, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, 
Susan B. Anthony and Lucretia IMott. 
Jane Addams presided and Speaker Gillett 
accepted the statue on behalf of Congress. 
Eighty-five national women's organizations 
and those of six foreign countries, besides a 
number of local associations, were repre- 
sented. The Washington, D. C, Home 
Economics Association and the Art • can 
Home Economics Association we: itly 
represented in the ceremony by An..a Rich- 
ardson, Emma Jacobs, and Ethel Ridgeway. 

Two educational moving pictures films 
which ser\'e a real purpose in connection 
wnth household arts are: "Making Soap", 
put out by Kirkman's Soap Company; and 
'Wash Day", by the Laundr>' Board of 
Trade, 711 Times Building, New York City. 



Vol. Xm, No. 8 August, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mary de Oaruo Bryan, EdUor Keturah E. Baldwin, Businesi Edilof 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary II. Abel C. F. Langworthy Amy Daniels Ruth Wheeler Katharine Fisbek 

Ex-Officio Members— Mary E. Sweeny, President American Home Economics Association 
OcTAviA Hall, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton, Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, Chairman Extension Education Section 
LiLLLAN Peek, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The OfEcers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Isabel Bevier Front is piece 

Home Economics at Illinois Eugene Davenport 337 

Practical Teaching of Textiles in High Schools Grace Denny 342 

A Survey of Farm Homes Ilcna M. Bailey and Melissa Farrell Snyder 346 

PoPULARizLNG FooD Facts IN A DEPARTMENT Store Lunch Room .... Helen Ferris 356 

Stant) Behind the Fess Amendment ^,(J^) 

For the Home maker 

Use of the Pressure Cooker in the Home Minna C. Denton .>61 

Jellied Grapefruit Peel or Or.vnge Peel Fanny Walker Yeatman 366 

A Hosiery Guide for the Shopper Ellen Miller 368 

Does not This Apply to all Natural Resources 3(,9 

Choosing a Washing Machine 37(j 

Editorial 371 

The Open Forum 373 

The Qlt stion Box 374 

iooKS AND Literature 375 

News from the Field 3gl 



The Journal op Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registereo letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal op Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg & Co., Chicago; Hochschild, Kohn & Co., Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 



Vol. Xni AUGUST, 1921 No. 8 



HOME ECONOMICS AT ILLINOIS » 

EUGENE DAVENPORT 

Vice-President, University of Illinois 

The University of Illinois was one of the first institutions in the United 
States to turn its attention to the problems of home and homemaking. 
So well did the early attempts succeed that the President of the Univer- 
sity married the professor, and so small was the outfit that this wedding 
ceremony closed out the enterprise, whereby the development of the sub- 
ject of home economics went into a state of suspended animation. It 
was revived after many years and put under the direction of Professor 
Isabel Bevier, who entered the service of the University on April 18, 1900 
— an excellent beginning for the twentieth century. 

There was much discussion about an appropriate name. Professor 
Bevier, I remember, felt that the need of the times was for something 
which might be called "Applied Science for Women" but the demand was 
for instruction in homemaking, and the choosing of the term "House- 
hold Science" for the name of the department was, all things considered, 
entirely logical. As in many other new enterprises, much time and 
energy were expended, if not wasted, over the country in the discussion 
of mere nomenclature, and the term "Domestic Science" settled down 
upon us, particularly in the high schools, as a kind of permanent name for 
this latest adventure along academic lines. Still later, further attention 
was given to the much debated subject, this time the idea of econom- 
ics being emphasized, and Illinois followed the custom of most colleges 
in adopting the new name of "Home Economics," by which the subject 
has latterly been known. 

' Presented at the Recognition Service in honor of Professor Isabel Bevier, May 26, 1921. 
Professor Bevier retires this year from her work at the University of Illinois. 

337 



338 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Whatever the name, the subject matter of study covers those three 
great fundamentals of civilized society — food, clothing, and shelter. 
Naturally at Illinois as elsewhere, the earliest attention was bestowed 
upon food, more especially from the standpoint of proper maintenance 
of the human body. The study of clothing came later, but with regard 
to shelter, we have as yet hardly made a beginning. 

Chemistry ha\'ing been a leading science in this great field, as in agri- 
culture, it was more than natural, indeed it was quite necessary, to 
employ this great science in the earliest stages of exploration; but it 
became more and more evident that not only chemistry but physics and 
physiolog>' lay at the bottom of the food question, if not also of clothing. 
Later on, the subject of expending family income began to bulk large in 
the study and teaching of this great subject. Here as elsewhere, the 
question of good taste, as expressed in design and decoration, even of our 
tables, came into proper prominence; and the department has expended 
no little energy and careful thought in the attempt to establish these 
fundamentals upon a foundation of good taste. 

Finally, this department has never for a moment forgotten the fact 
that all these subjects are distinctly humanistic and involve to an ex- 
ceptional degree that quality known as the human equation. For that 
reason the teachings of the department have been in the concrete rather 
than in the abstract, always with the definite purpose of making its appeal 
to the better side of humanity in its domestic relations. 

From the very first, the department has been keenly conscious of its 
objective. If it had been established mainly for the purpose of training 
women for professional careers, I presume the subject matter would have 
been somewhat differently treated, and perhaps upon the whole, a differ- 
ent set of results would have been accomplished. However, while the 
department has never lost sight of the human element and of the basic 
fact that it deals with human beings, yet it has constantly kept in mind 
the thought of human beings in the home relation, and its great pur- 
pose has always been to improve the home, either directly through the 
training of housekeepers or indirectly through the training of teachers. 

It is my abiding opinion that this fact lies very close to the foundation 
of the remarkable success that has attended the career of Professor 
Bevier in the University of Illinois. Much as she has been interested 
in her girls, and assiduously as she has labored to find them positions, 
after aU, the one purpose always in mind as the final goal of all that might 
be said and done and taught was nothing less than the American home. 
For her ability always to keep this in mind amidst all the strain and 



1921] HOME ECONOMICS AT ILLINOIS 339 

stress of pioneer endeavor, the country owes her a debt of gratitude 
above that which is owing to most women. She has had her asso- 
ciates and her co-laborers, both here and elsewhere, and many have 
achieved much in this most useful field, but among them all no name 
stands higher for the great objective than that of the woman we honor 
today. 

The objective being clearly in the mind of the department, its service 
to the University became almost a matter of inference. Clearly, if 
the sole purpose of the department had been to develop professional 
courses, it could never have appealed to the great mass of women students 
of the University nor would it have had the direct contact with home- 
making which it has all along enjoyed. Because of this objective the 
purpose has been to make the appeal to all classes of university women 
seeking a higher education. Its courses have therefore been outlined 
and conducted with a double purpose in mind: First, the presenting of 
home economics as a part of a liberal education; and second, the develop- 
ment of courses leading to a profession in teaching, dietetics, and cafe- 
teria management. 

During the twenty-one years of the existence of this department, there 
has come into its service in one way or another no fewer than 72 individual 
members of the faculty, 55 of whom have belonged to the instructional 
staff, serving it throughout the academic year. This faculty has been 
drawn from many institutions and has represented the best thought of 
many people. It has served faithfully and loyally with results which I 
am sure are extremely gratifying. 

The first five graduating classes, beginning with that of 1903, num- 
bered, respectively, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 9; after this the number rapidly in- 
creased, reaching 94 in 1918, but dropping somewhat for the last two 
years, under the influence of war conditions. The total number is 630, 
of whom 190 are married, 228 are teaching, 14 are cafeteria directors, 26 
are dietitians, a considerable number are widely scattered in various lines 
of work, and 14 have passed beyond. 

The total number of students coming under the instruction of this 
staff for the last 21 years is approximately 5000. The number registered 
for the current year is 560, of whom about 80 per cent are majoring in 
home economics, the remaining 20 per cent representing that group of 
young women whose chief interest is in other lines and yet who desire 
some touch with this great subject as a part of a liberal education. 

If efforts are to be judged by their results, whether in respect to alumnae 
or the present registration of undergraduate students, it is not too much 



340 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

to say that the purposes of this department have been in the main accom- 
plished, by which is meant that the department has trained hundreds of 
competent executives and teachers without such exclusive attention to 
the professional as to break the contact with that great mass of university 
women who are to become, not teachers or professionals of any kind, but 
the heads of American homes. To achieve this double purpose has been 
the great ambition of the department, in which it has eminently suc- 
ceeded. 

Naturally, when a great work has been accomplished, we seek the 
individual whose leadership has blazed the way, realizing well that in 
all great work there is somewhere in the enterprise a genius and a guiding 
hand. In this case the individual is not hard to find. 

Professor Bevier has given her life unsparingly to the development and 
conduct, day by day, of this department. The field was almost entirely 
new as a university subject. People in general have only now begun to 
realize that the great business of housekeeping rests upon scientific prin- 
ciples if onl}- they can be discovered and brought out. There was 
naturally much impatience twenty years ago at what appeared to be slow 
progress. There was much demand for the doing of impossible things, and 
here, as in many cases, it was the friends of the movement who in some 
respects made progress difficult by expecting of the department what it 
could not render without entirely setting aside its university objective. 

If it had yielded to pressure fifteen or twenty years ago, we should not 
now have, as we do have, strong and well developed departments of home 
economics in hundreds of high schools in the country. Realizing the 
significance of a university department in hom.e economics as compared 
with a high school department. Professor Bevier set her face strenuously 
to the development of such courses of instruction as would produce perma- 
nent results. 

It was decidedly pioneer work for Professor Bevier and her co-laborers. 
Here she was hard at work making bricks both with and without straw. 
In other places other pioneers were dreaming and working, succeeding 
and failing, each trying as best she could to solve the problem of her 
institution and locality, but each was practically working alone for the 
study was not understood in university circles, even being considered, in 
many places, as an academic joke. 

In many ways these good women did not have even a fair chance. For 
example, when a well trained professor is greeted in the morning by her 
associates with the threadbare question, "Have you got the dishes 



1921] HOME ECONOMICS AT ILLINOIS 341 

washed?" it is not the sort of inspiration needed to develop a great new 
subject. In those early days the most common allusion to a home 
economics department was as a matrimonial factory, a challenge which 
was immediately accepted by this department, which undertook to 
justify its line of work on the broad basis of homemaking. By attending 
strictly to its business and by getting results, this department has slowly 
but surely justified itself, not only in the opinion of the student body and 
of the public, but of the faculty as well. 

I think it is not too much to say that at present no department of the 
University enjoys more of the confidence and respect of the institution than 
does the department of home economics. To say that this gratifying 
achievement is mainly the work of one person is perhaps putting it too 
strongly because Professor Bevier has had many able and loyal associates 
within the department and in kindred departments. But even so, the 
difl&cult task of choosing between alternative courses, of deciding what 
to do and what not to do, what to undertake and what to let alone — 
this great task has rested almost entirely with the head of the department, 
and there have been few to help her, not from an inclination on the part 
of the rest of us to avoid responsibility, but from sheer inability to 
function efficiently in this great subject. Her nearest associates in 
administrative circles have been obliged to rest content with standing on 
the side lines, dropping here and there a word of encouragement but 
realizing all the time that their real service was of slight account. All in 
all, therefore, whatever success we have achieved in this University in the 
development of home economics must go, so far as leadership is con- 
cerned, exclusively to the one whom we honor today. 

She has not only been a force in the development of her chosen subject 
in the University of Illinois, but she has been a national figure as well. 
She has been an inspiration to thousands of young women who have been 
so fortunate as to come under her influence, and she has been a benedic- 
tion to the University. 

We count it fortunate for those who may come and go as the years go 
by, and fortunate indeed for those who sojourn here that so excellent a 
portrait of so lovely a character shall be left among us as almost a speaking 
remembrance of her who so long labored that others might live better 
lives. We are all deeply grateful to the alumnae of this department for 
their labor of love in bringing this portrait into existence and hanging it 
upon the walls where it may meet and greet with its inviting smile the 
thousands who come afterward. 



342 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

PRACTICAL TEACHING OF TEXTILES IN HIGH SCHOOLS 

GRACE G. DENNY 

University of Washington, Seattle 

For high school textile work, the teacher can well afford to forget 
manufacturing processes and historical phases of the textile industry. 
If she will look about her in any class room, she will find enough textile 
material for a series of interesting lessons more practical and more 
immediately usable than can be gained by the text book approach. 

Take, for example, the wool fabrics represented in the coats, suits, and 
dresses of the teachers and pupils. A variety of introductions may be 
made to the subject of wool. Any approach which is immediate and 
natural will catch the girl's interest at once. 

Following are three suggested lines of study growing out of the wool 
clothing found in class: 

One Method of Approach 

Identify wool materials: Those found in class. Those known at home. 

Contest to see who knows the most wool materials : Pupils bring samples 
from scrap bag at home. Mount a sample of each and place before the class, 
or wear a garment showing a kind of cloth. 

Practical quiz on fabrics: Pass around samples (numbered) with no infor- 
mation. Pupils WTite down, opposite number, the name, width, composition, 
(all or part wool), weave, or whatever facts studied. 

Compare fabrics: Give characteristics — good or bad points; e.g., velour 
catches lint, French serge wears shiny, broadcloth with nap pressed one way 
requires more material for cutting. 

Compare cost: Include width and length of wear. Compare similar 
materials, as albatross, challis, cashmere, or serge, cheviot, tricotine. 

Study wool and cotton mixtures: If an example of this kind is shown, find 
other materials, as brilliantine, cotton warp baby flannel, shepherd check 
mixtures, \dyella flannel. Test by burning yarns raveled out of cloth. Test 
by boiling in household lye. When are cotton mixtures desirable? As in 
children's dresses and blankets. When are cotton mixtures undesirable? 
As in cotton warp serge. Why is wool warm? Why does wool not wrinkle 
like cotton? Why does wool shrink (borrow microscope and show fibers). 

A Second Suggestion 

Clothing budget (collect data in class) : Cost of dresses and coats. Length 
of wear. Plan a budget on two or three year basis. 



1921] PRACTICAL TEACHING OF TEXTILES 343 

Discuss buying of coats and dresses: Ready-made vs. homemade. Does 
it pay to buy high grade garments that wear longer? Materials, what 
to expect of them. Colors and textures. Style or lines, becomingness. 

Trimming. 

Possible shopping excursion: Someone is to buy cloth or garment. Let 

class make study of garment or cloth at store. 

Care of garments (demonstrate with actual garments) : Pressing— extreme 
heat harmful to wool and silk. Brushing. Spongmg. Hanging up. Dress 
covers. Protection from moths. Removal of spots — acid stain from chemistry 
laboratory (neutralize), grease spots, paint spots, ink spots. Remove actual 
stains in laboratory or class room. 

Removal of shine from French serge: Demonstrate. Explain cause of 
shine. Explain worsted yarn and cloth. 

Washing sweaters or infant's wool clothing: Demonstrate in laboratory, 
or discuss it, have it done at home and result brought in. Explanation of 
shrinking. Proper method for washing woolens. 

Mending and repairs: Patch (if one is needed). Darn (with yarn from cloth 
or human hair). Use of mending tissue. Sewing on buttons, hooks and 
eyes, and general repairing needed on actual garments. Have a day for putting 
clothes in order. Bring garments from home. 

A Third Possible Plan 

Where do our clothes come from? Store, factory, mill, sheep ranch. Local 
store or mail order house. 

Clothing factories— New York, Chicago, Buffalo. Conditions in factories. 

Cloth mills— Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts. Local 
western mills— Oregon, Washington. If near a mill, plan to visit it. 

Sheep growing— Australia, South America, Wyoming, Montana, Ohio,. 
Oregon, Washington, California. If in sheep-growing region, get facts about, 
local industry. Where are fleeces sent? Why grow sheep for mutton and 
use wool as by-product? WTiat is hea\y shrinking wool? 

Kinds of wool— Short, kinky, long, smooth. Hair— mohair from Angora, 
goat, camel's hair. 

Kinds of wool cloth. Why the difference between challis and tweed, gaber- 
dine and mackinaw cloth? What is shoddy? Where is it used? Why? 

Collect pictures (magazines, papers, books— The National Geographic Maga- 
zine is excellent) showing countries or cities where wool is grown or manufac- 
tured. Let any member of the class bring in things of interest on the subject. 

Store exhibits: Ask merchant to write for exhibits showing grades of wool 
and processes of manufacture to make window display. Let pupils study 
material. 



344 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Likewise, one might take cotton goods used in sewing classes and dis- 
cuss the above phases and many others which will naturally suggest 
themselves. Suppose the cooking laboratory needs a supply of towels. 
Why not make use of this opportunity to teach a real lesson in shopping? 
Let a group of girls plan with the amount allowed what kind of towels and 
how many shall be purchased. They may do the buying, hemming, 
marking, and laundering. To do this, they must know what is in the 
market and whether huck, crash, or glass towelling will best suit their 
purpose. The pocketbook will decide between cotton and linen. At 
the store, they will find two or three qualities from which they must 
choose. This choice calls for exercise of judgment. Is there a difference 
in absorbing power, wearing quality (which means withstanding the 
attacks of the laundry)? To purchase towels intelligently, the girls 
should know the relative value of cotton, linen, and union fabrics, the 
relative strength of crash (plain weave) and huck (fancy weave), the 
relative absorbing power of honeycomb, huck, terry, crash. They 
should be able *o detect an excessive amount of dressing. The question 
of buying toweling by the yard or the made-up towels may have to be 
settled. 

Is it not possible for the teacher with the aid of the merchant to give 
the girls an actual lesson in shopping? After all, this is our purpose in 
teaching textiles. 

This brings us to the question, "Should textiles be taught in high 
school"? Our aim is to train for actual homemaking. Does the home- 
maker think of her duties as dietetics, textiles, household management, 
budget making? If we ask ourselves 'What does the homemaker need 
to know about textiles?", the answer will eliminate much that is in our 
text books. As intimated above, the project method does away with 
formality. It deals with existing circumstances as the actual home- 
maker must do. This approach to the subject will doubtless win greater 
approval from the mothers of high school girls. But many a teacher will 
protest that facts wiU be omitted and there will be no uniformity in teach- 
ing. What if facts are omitted? Unless they serve to make the girls 
better purchasers, they are not useful here. I have no desire to see 
textile teaching standardized. It should be spontaneous and grow out 
of the local need. 

Suppose the dining-room or the girls' rest room at school needs fur- 
nishing, or that some mother will allow the class to plan the furnishings 
for a room in her home on a certain sum. This is real home furnishing. 



1921] PRACTICAL TEACHING OF TEXTILES 345 

It is exciting to learn about rugs and curtains, color and design, when one 
can actually carry out her own ideas. There is not only the study in 
books, magazines, and stores, and the actual buying, but there is the 
making and hanging of curtains, making pillows, table covers or couch 
covers, and, finally, the report. 

In connection with the study of child care, a complete layette may be 
made for a hospital baby or a small brother or sister. Here is not 
only an acquaintance with many materials (knitted goods, flannel, 
nainsook, batiste, albatross, eiderdown, birdseye) but an appreciation 
of dainty stitches and design, a study of costs and care of clothing — all 
related to a real, live baby. 

These are merely a few suggestions showing the way this snowball of 
interest will grow, provided it starts, rolling near home. 

It is hard to believe that there is a high school girl entirely indifferent 
to her own clothes. If she cares about her appearance, she cares about 
her clothes. Her clothes are made of cloth (exception leather). Like- 
wise, every normal girl cares about having the house beautiful ; her 
mother's home where she receives company, and, most of all, her own 
future home. She wants it attractive and to accomplish this, she must 
know how to get the most for her money. House furnishings consist 
largely of textile fabrics, as bedding, table linen, towels, rugs, hangings. 

Here is the motive, the interest is easily aroused. The teaching 
material is at hand ! 

Methods and Teaching Agencies 

Get acquainted with local merchants. They will want to cooperate. 

Get acquainted with the mothers. They will share their scrap bags with 
your classes. 

Bring examples of your own clothing or room furnishings to class. Collect 
good examples of table runners, pillows, pottery, pictures, which you may show 
to classes. 

Secure films showing manufacture of textiles or clothing. 

Mount pictures of interest. Place on bulletin board. Use in connection 
with subject being discussed. 

Borrow ready-made garments from stores. 

Have class excursions to stores and homes. 

Compare (where possible) new and washed or worn fabrics, as towels, hand- 
kerchiefs, table linen, hosiery. 



346 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

A SURVEY OF FARM HOMES' 

ILENA M. BAILEY AND MELISSA FARRELL SNYDER 
Office of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture 

The survey on which the following article is based was planned pri- 
marily as an aid in developing methods of extension work in the North 
and West. The findings include much valuable information regarding 
the character and equipment of typical farm homes, the kind and amount 
of labor performed by the farm housekeepers, and the relation of the 
farm home to the life of the community. Since these subjects are now 
receiving wide discussion, a summary of this part of the survey is here 
published as a contribution to the dej&nite information on which must 
be based any satisfactory solution of farm home problems. It is much 
to be regretted that no entirely comparable studies of city homes are 
available. 

St. Joseph County in southern Michigan was chosen for this survey 
because, in the prevalence of diversified farming, in the proportion of 
tenant far ners to owners, and in various other conditions, it was con- 
sidered typical of the agricultural districts of the twelve North Central 
States within which resides about one-third of our farming population. 

The towns, none of which has a population of much more than 6000, 
are connected by good gravel roads, and five railroads cross the county^ 
giving easy access to several cities. Battle Creek and Kalamazoo, 
Michigan, and Fort Wayne, Indiana, are all easily reached by rail within 
2^ hours. The country is gently rolling and varied by many bits of 
woodland and by numerous small lakes, whose shores are lined with 
resorts and cottages. The principal crops are corn, wheat, oats, rye,, 
and beans. Special crops are produced, such as fruits on the rough land, 
potatoes in sandy soil, and mints on the large marshes. 

The areas surveyed were near the towns of Colon, Centreville, and 
Three Rivers. Each of the 91 farms in the selected areas was vdsited. 
The questions asked covered the general character of the farm, the make- 
up of the family, and the following phases of farm home life: the house 
and its equipment, household labor, social life, and economic conditions. 
Data were also gathered regarding those phases of farm work which most 
directly affect either the food supply of the farm, or the work of farm 
housekeepers. 

'This survey was made in St. Joseph's County, Mich., in the spring of 1917. 



1921] FARM HOMES IN ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, MICHIGAN 347 

All the women interviewed spoke English easily. With possibly two 
exceptions all were native-born, though the surnames indicate that one- 
third of the families were of German descent. 

The farms ranged in size from 3 to 400 acres, with an average of 115 
acres, of which an average of 97 were under cultivation. Except for a 
few fruit and dairy farms, diversified farming was the rule in the areas 
studied. 

There were 72 owners and 19 tenants among the farms studied. The 
records do not indicate any noteworthy differences between the two 
groups, save that, as usual, the tenant farms averaged larger than those 
worked by the owners. 

Because the length of tenure of a farm affects the amount of improve- 
ment that can wisely be made on a farm home, data were collected to 
show the length of time the families stayed in one community and on one 
farm. Fifty-two per cent had lived in their present community 25 years 
or more, 8 per cent less than five years, and 2 per cent less than two 
years; among the families who had lived from 2 to 5 years in one com- 
munity, 25 per cent had changed farms, and this percentage was found to 
increase gradually as the length of time the families had been in the 
community increased until, among those who had lived there over 25 
years, 75 per cent had moved from one farm to another. Some changes 
are, of course, due to tenants becoming owners and to marriages. 

Live Stock. All of the farms reported cows; less than three were kept 
on 21 per cent of the farms, and from 10 to 15 on 9 per cent. The 
average number of birds in the flocks of poultry was 78. The number of 
young birds raised per year varied from none to 350, with an average of 
1 1 7 for the f anns reporting. In many cases the need of better methods in 
the care of poultry was shown by the fact that the number of birds raised 
was much smaller than the number hatched. 

Orchards. Seventy-five per cent of the farms reported orchards, some 
for home supplies only, others for both home and commercial use. Apple 
trees predominated but there were also cherry, peach, pear, and plum 
trees in the home orchard. Families having no orchards purchased fruit 
for home use or had it given to them by their neighbors. All the families 
seemed to be fairly well supplied with fresh fruit and preserves. Whether 
it is worth while for the farm wife to use valuable time and energy in try- 
ing to put up the poor fruit produced by such dying and untrimmed trees 
as were frequently seen along the roadsides is perhaps doubtful, but the 
fruit from a good orchard is a valuable part of the food supply of the 
farm family. 



348 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Gardens. Gardens were found on all the farms. In most instances 
only one planting was made a year and only the common vegetables were 
grown. Three farms had surplus garden products to sell. In general the 
families studied did not appear to be so well supplied with vegetables as 
with fruits. 

Grounds. Notes were made on the character of the grounds surround- 
ing the farm houses because this affects both the attractiveness of the 
place and the cleanliness of the house. All of the places would have been 
improved in appearance by more shrubs and vines to soften the sharp 
angles of the house and to screen the foundations and outbuildings. 
Most of the houses had lawns in front, but in a few cases these had been 
pastured so closely by farm stock that there was no grass left. Scarcely 
a house had a grassy back yard ; in most cases the soil had been tramped 
bare by men and animals, and there were patches where it was kept 
saturated by the waste water thrown out from the kitchen. Under such 
conditions much unnecessary dirt is tracked and blown into the house, 
and the work of cleaning is increased. The practical and esthetic advan- 
tage of well kept home grounds is a point now being emphasized in the 
programs and campaigns of rural home clubs. 

General character of houses. With possibly three exceptions, all the 
houses were painted and in fair condition. Many had had additions 
built and as a result the floors and roofs were on different levels. Such 
irregularities in plans and levels often complicate the problem of install- 
ing drainage, heating, and lighting systems. In over 11 per cent of the 
houses in this study, there were steps between the dining room and the 
kitchen. The disadvantages of such differences in floor level, where 
there is much passing, is obvious. 

The number of rooms varied from 4 to 15 with an average of 8, exclu- 
sive of halls and bathrooms. This allows an average of one person to 
two rooms, whereas in city surveys the average is one or even two persons 
per room. 

One third used the same room as dining room and kitchen, and 19 per 
cent of those who reported having these rooms separate ate in the kitchen 
during the winter. This saved labor and fuel but at the sacrifice of 
pleasant surroundings. 

Storage facilities. In the great majority of houses the cellar was the 
chief storage place for fruits and vegetables though in a few cases they 
were buried in the ground. Over half the families stored meat in the 
cellar, while about a third had a smoke-house or other outside building 
for the smoked meats. Eighty per cent of the houses were provided with 



1921] FARM HOMES IN ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, inCHIGAN 349 

woodsheds, 11 per cent had only wood-piles, while in 6 per cent the fire- 
wood was kept in the cellar. The distance from the wood supply to the 
kitchen door varied from 2 to 120 feet, with an average of 18 feet. When 
the stove was across the kitchen from the door, as it frequently was, the 
actual distance for carrying the wood was that much longer. 

Screens. Reports on the screening of windows and doors showed that 
in practically all the houses the kitchen windows were screened and in 
most cases also the other windows which were frequently opened. In 
63 houses all the windows were at least partially screened. All kitchen 
doors were screened and most of the other outer doors. Twenty-three 
houses had screened porches. 

Lights. Of the 91 farm homes, 80 used ordinary kerosene lamps and 
seven acetylene gas. There was one house in which kerosene with mantle 
burners was used, one equipped with blau gas, one with a gasoline system, 
and one with electricity from a town plant. In one of the areas studied 
electric current was carried past eight of the houses but was not used 
in any of them. It could probably be obtained without difficulty in 
several others as well. 

Arrangements for heating and cooking. The installation of better 
methods of heating seemed to be progressing more rapidly than that of 
lighting, as was shown by the fact that 18 per cent of the houses surveyed 
had furnaces. Of this number, one-fourth were hot water, and three- 
fourths hot air. Forty-eight per cent of the houses had wood stoves 
only, 14 per cent coal stoves only, 9 per cent both kinds of stoves, and 1 1 
per cent stoves which burn either. Four homes reported the use of oil 
heaters. The averge number of heating stoves per home (excluding the 
homes heated by furnace) was 1.69. 

Eighty-eight per cent of the housekeepers used wood for cooking, 12 
per cent wood and coal, and 1 used coal alone. Seventy-four per cent also 
used some kind of oil or gas stove; over half of these burned kerosene, and 
about one-fifth gasoline. Acetylene, which was just coming into use in 
one community, was used for cooking by two housekeepers. 

The fact that for most of the farm homes wood could be obtained from 
the farm woodlot probably explains why so many farms used it for both 
heating and cooking. 

Water supply and sewerage. Driven wells were found on 89 per cent 
of these farm homes and open or dug wells on the remainder. Eighty- 
nine per cent reported cisterns also. 

In all but four cases there was water within ten feet of the kitchen 
door and on 55 per cent of the farms there was cistern water in the house. 



350 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

In all cases the water was pumped either by hand or by power. There 
were 33 farms equipped with windmills or gasoline motors, but only 10 of 
these had running water in the house. But it may be mentioned that 
12 others had in the house a pump with soft cistern water. 

In 60 per cent of the houses there were kitchen sinks, in 12 percent 
bathtubs, in 7 per cent hot water boilers, and in 10 per cent water-closets. 
Seven per cent had separate bath rooms equipped with tub, hot water, 
and closet. 

A septic tank or cess pool was found in 22 per cent, leaving 78 per cent 
in which waste water was emptied on the surface of the back yard. 
About one quarter of the kitchen sinks drained into a removable pail. 
Ninety per cent of the houses used privies of which about one-seventh 
had removable receptacles or walled vaults. 

Desire for modern improvements. The term "modern improvements" 
was used to cover running water, hot water, set bathtub, some system of 
sewerage, gas and electric lights, and furnace. Only 2 of the 91 houses 
visited were equipped with all of these; 26 had some and needed others; 
and, in 4, plans had already been made for installing certain ones. All 
but nine of the housekeepers visited were eager for improvements. The 
form most generally desired was a good lighting system, next came a 
furnace, next a water system, next a bathtub, and last sewerage. A con- 
siderable number also wished additions and repairs to the house, new fur- 
nishings, and other conveniences. From the answers which the women 
gave to questions about modern improvements the observer was con- 
vinced that they saw the advantages but did not know what practical 
steps to take to introduce the changes into their particular houses with 
the money and labor which they could command. Permanent improve- 
ments were less likely to be made in the case of tenant farmers than where 
the families owned the place in which they lived. 

Labor-saving devices. These last two points are emphasized by the 
fact that movable conveniences were relatively more common than im- 
provements in the houses themselves. For example, 67 per cent of 
these farm housekeepers used washing machines, and 43 per cent vacu- 
um cleaners, 14 per cent used self -heated irons, 11 per cent fireless 
cookers, and 15 per cent refrigerators. Telephones were installed in 
49 per cent of the houses, an unusually low figure for such districts, and 
due probably to a disagreement between two companies operating in the 
neighborhood. All who needed chums and all but 10 per cent of those 
who could make use of separators had them. 



1921] FARM HOMES IN ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, MICHIGAN 351 

Size and character of families. The number of persons making up a 
family often varied at different times, but the average for the year was 
4.1. The average number of children under 14 years of age was approxi- 
mately 1.1 per family. About 20 per cent of the families included no 
children, and 25 per cent none under 14 years of age; about 36 per cent 
had only one child; 12 per cent had four or more children; and none 
had more than six. Twenty-five per cent of all the children were under 
6 years of age, and about 40 per cent were between 6 and 14. 

The adults in the family frequently included married children, parents, 
or other elderly relatives. Nine families also reported boarders for 
part of the year. These were usually school-teachers and hired hands 
who were boarded for the landlord or neighbors. The hired help em- 
ployed on the farm was usually lodged and fed at the farm home when 
hired by the month; for day help, dinners or dinners and suppers 
were ordinarily furnished. 

Health. Although 11 per cent of the families lost no time and reported 
no expense on account of illness, the average number of days per year lost 
was found to be 38.8 per family, or 10 days per person. Nearly 40 per 
cent of this was among elderly persons who did no regular farm or house- 
work ; another 40 per cent among the workers, and 20 per cent among the 
children. The housekeepers themselves lost, on the average, 8.3 days. 
No account was kept of the extra help hired or extra work performed on 
account of illness. In the few instances of severe illness occurring among 
these families the patients were cared for in hospitals. The annual 
money loss occasioned by illness was estimated as $31.20 per family, a 
sum found by adding the cost of physician 's services and medicines to 
the money value of time lost as reckoned at current wages for farm hands 
and hired girls. Had physicians been consulted often in chronic cases, 
the amount would have been much larger, as the days of illness in 5 such 
cases amounted to 1241 in a year. 

Household help. Among the women questioned, 11 per cent had no 
help in the household work, 69 per cent had help from the family, 10 
per cent had hired help for a considerable part of the year, and 10 per cent 
for a month or less during the busiest season. 

Whenever help was employed, it was required by some special condi- 
tion, such as illness, an unusually large family, or extra work. In none 
of these farm homes was such expense incurred as a matter of luxury. 
The hired girls received, in addition to board and room, weekly wages 
varying from $2.25 to $6.00, and averaging $3.87. Laundry work was 



352 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

usually included among their duties. Women hired by the day were paid 
at a slightly higher rate. 

The kind and amount of help received from members of the family 
varied greatly. Other women in the household were the most important 
and most continuous source of such assistance, but in one-sixth of the 
farm families the men carried wood and water, turned the washing 
machine, or did other heavier pieces of work, and often the children 
aided regularly, especially during school vacations. The returns which 
a housekeeper secures from the help at her disposal appear from these 
records to be one of the best tests of her ability as a manager. 

Length of working day. The only feasible method of measuring the 
working time of these women was to subtract the hours spent in leisure 
and for personal affairs from the total number of hours between getting 
up and going to bed. Since the women were on duty when meals were 
being served, this time was included in the hours of work. The hour of 
beginning work in the morning varied in summer from 4:00 to 7:00 
o'clock, with the average at 5:05 a.m. In the winter the range was 
from 5:00 to 8:00 with the average at 6:17 a. m. The hour of ending 
work in summer was from 6:00 to 10:00 o'clock in the evening, with the 
average at 7 : 44 p.m. Corresponding hours for winter were 5 : 00 to 10 : 00 
with the average at 6:53 p.m. The average length of the working day 
was just over 13 hours in summer and 10 hours in winter, or 11^ hours for 
the entire year. The average time for leisure and personal affairs was 
1§ hours in simimer and 2^ hours in winter, or 2 hours a day for the 
entire year. 

Nineteen of the 91 women reported that they had no leisure in summer 
and only one hour of free time daily, on the average, in winter. On com- 
paring the details of their records with those of their 72 less driven neigh- 
bors, it appears that the differences were due not so much to larger 
families, more small children, or poorer house arrangement and equip- 
ment as to more sickness in the family, more sewing done at home, and 
especially to less help, both from the family and hired, and also to helping 
more with the dair>% poultry, field work, and chores. Of course, the 
time spent at table or sewing does not represent fatiguing work, and 
would perhaps be considered as time off by some women, but on the 
other hand it does not leave the housewife free from immediate res- 
ponsibility of getting a certain task done. It cannot be a desirable con- 
dition in which one-fifth of the women in a community say there is no 
time during the day in which they can drop this active responsibility. 



1921] FARM HOMES IN ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, MICHIGAN 355 

Time spent on special kinds of work. It would have been interesting 
to study the distribution of the housekeeper 's time among all the phases 
of her work, as was done in a previous study,^ but in the present case this 
was impossible and special records were confined to dairy, poultry, gar- 
den, and laundry work. Among the 91 housekeepers, dairy work (in- 
cluding butter-making) consumed, on the average, 49 minutes a day, 
garden work 21 minutes, and poultry work 43 minutes. Of course, 
these periods were much longer at certain seasons, such as the hatching 
period for poultry, but, taking the year through, an average of 1 hour and 
52 minutes a day was spent on these extra-household activities. Laun- 
dry work required an average of 62 minutes a day or about 1\ hours a 
week. With the average working day \\\ hours long, 8^ hours appear 
to have been given to the regular household tasks, such as preparing and 
serving food, keeping the house in order, caring for children, and mending, 
and for such occasional work as making garments, caring for the sick, 
and helping out with field work in times of emergency. 

Social and community life. The replies to questions on this point 
indicate that few of the women made much systematic effort to develop 
social life in the home by means of music, games, or conversation on 
subjects of general interest. Seventy per cent of the women said that 
some time was spent in such recreation, usually in winter evenings, but 
the impression given was that they had thought little of its significance 
as a means of making the home life more interesting and attractive. 

There was considerable social intercourse with the neighbors and the 
community. Aside from weekly or more frequent trips to town, practi- 
cally all the women exchanged calls with their neighbors, the visits 
received averaging about one in 3 or 4 days and those paid about one in 
9 days. The number of parties attended varied from none to 35 a year, 
with an average of three. Picnics were less popular, averaging only 
about one a year, though three women went to about eleven each. The 
average attendance at "movies" was 15 performances a year, but the 
figures varied with the locality. The largest attendance was in a district 
where there was a community "movie" in which the local people were 
stockholders, and here the farm women attended, on the average, 32 per- 
formances a year. In another district where there was an ordinary com- 
mercial motion-picture house, the farm women attended eight times a 
year. The average number of lectures attended was four, and nearly 

= Jour. Home Econ. 7 (1915), No. 7, pp. 348-353. 



354 THE JOURNAL OF HOACE ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

half of the women reported not going at all. This was often due to a 
lack of lectures to attend. On the average, farm women were away from 
home for business and pleasure 3 times a week. 

Another form of social life is furnished by societies and clubs. In 
this study, attendance at a particular church was considered as member- 
ship in an organization. Twenty-two per cent of the women did not 
belong to any organization, 33 per cent belonged to one only, 15 per cent 
to two, and 30 to three or mo^e, one woman belonging tto seven. The most 
general membership was in church, next came the aid society, the grange 
and gleaners, social clubs, women's clubs, lodges, and a variety of or- 
ganizations, such as sewing clubs, temperance societies, and Red Cross 
chapters. 

While the women replied readily to the question of improvements de- 
sired in the homes, they hesitated when asked about possible community 
improvements. Their apparent indifference is shown by the fact that 
41 per cent replied they did not desire any. Six others said they went to 
town for their social life and so were not interested in local improvements, 
and they seemed to feel no more responsibility for what the town offered 
than for conditions nearer home. Twenty-one per cent expressed a 
desire for more and better social life, 5 wishing for a woman's club in 
addition to the lodges and granges, 19 per cent felt the need of better 
roads, although not half this number had automobiles. Seventeen per 
cent wished improvements in the schools, 6 suggesting better buildings, 
4 better teachers, and various individuals better ventilation, or more 
attractive appearance in the buildings or grounds. Only two mentioned 
the advantages of consolidated schools. Seven per cent wished for 
church improvements, the majority of these desiring a church building of 
their own denomination as near as possible to their homes. The possi- 
bilities of a consolidated church were even further from their vision than 
those of a consolidated school. Other desires were for more attractive 
home grounds, a community house, a library, a community laundry, a 
rest room at the trading center, and better markets. 

Income and expenditures. Few families kept household accounts, 
and exact information regarding the economic conditions of the famihes 
was seldom available. In no case did a housewife use accounts as the 
basis for improving her household management, though several expressed 
satisfaction in knowing exactly how much money had been received for 
poultry and eggs and how much had been spent for food, clothing, and 
other household supplies. Women who did not keep accounts could 



1921] FARM HOMES IN ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, MICHIGAN 355 

usually tell how much money they spent weekly or monthly for the 
different articles of food; they could also tell the number and cost of 
various garments purchased, and so estimate the yearly totals. Only 
six women reported having a separate bank account for household pur- 
poses, but a few others approved of such an arrangement. 

In 90 per cent of the farms of the present study which reported on the 
sale of eggs, poultry, and dairy products, the income from these sources 
was considered as belonging distinctly to the home. It was not possible 
to secure exact figures, but the average was probably about $240 a year, 
poultry and eggs bringing in slightly more than dairy products. Some 
women said the poultry and egg and butter money always paid for gro- 
ceries, others that it also bought the less expensive articles of clothing. 

As nearly as could be estimated, the average amount spent annually 
for food was $36 per person, or $105 per family. Of this, about 14 per 
cent went for meat, 32 per cent for cereal products, 8 per cent for cooking 
and table fats, 18 per cent for sugar, 21 per cent for tea, coffee, cocoa, and 
postum, 7 per cent for fruits and vegetables. Only a few famihes bought 
all their meat, but the majority bought what beef they used. Dairy pro- 
ducts were supplied by the farm except that, when milk or cream was sold 
to a creamery, butter was often bought, usually at the creamery. Wheat 
grown on the farm was sometimes exchanged for flour at the local mill. 
The chief vegetables purchased were potatoes and canned goods. 
Fruits were rarely bought except for canning. 

The average amount spent for clothing per family per year was esti- 
mated at about $115. The average amount spent per person was about 
$32, but this sum varied according to the individuals, being $16 for 
children under 6 years, $38 for children from 6 to 14, $46 for children 
over 14, $47 for men, and $51 for women. A detailed study of the records 
shows that whatever the total sum spent by the family for clothing, the 
amount spent per person tends to grow smaller as the number of persons 
in the family increases. This is doubtless due in part to the practice of 
making over garments for children. These clothing estimates do not 
include the value of the time spent by the women of the family in sewing. 
The amount paid for hired sewing was very small, averaging only $4.55 
per family per year. 

Estimates for the cost of coal and wood averaged $39 (about ^ of which 
was for coal), and $6 for oil which was used about equally for cooking and 
lighting. One third of the families did not buy wood, as this was fur- 
nished by the farm. 



356 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Other expenditures averaged as follows: doctors fees and medicines, 
$21; reading matter, $9; wages of hired girl, S6; railway fares, $1.50. 

The total expenditures of these farm homes as thus estimated average 
about $300, or S60 more than was received from the sale of poultry, eggs, 
and dairy prodcts. In other words, 80 per cent of these expenditures 
for the farm family were met by the extra household activities of the 
housekeepers, leaving only 20 per cent to be contributed from the pro- 
ceeds of the principal products of the farm. 

Such figures do not indicate the actual value of the supplies used by 
the farm families. They do not, for example, take into account the food 
and wood pro\dded by the farm, the cost of feed for poultry and cows, the 
value of the unpaid time given to making clothing, or various other items 
which must be considered in analyzing the contributions made by the 
different lines of work to the farm home. They do, however, indicate 
that the farm housewives make a large contribution to the economic 
support of the family as well as to its comfort and well-being. 



POPULARIZING FOOD FACTS IX A DEPARTMENT STORE 

LUNCH ROOM 

HELEN FERRIS^ 

"We must devise some plan by which we can call attention in our 
lunch room to the importance of choosing one 's lunch wdsely. Many of 
the lunches that are being selected are far from wise. " 

It was the manager of a large department store who was speaking to a 
committee called together to consider this food question. At once, there 
was an objection. 

"You can never make people eat what they do not wish to." 

"No, not that. But can we not attract them to certain dishes? That 
is the way in which I should like to see some plan tried. " 

' Miss Ferris was for six years connected with the Educational Department at John 
Wannamaker's. She is the author of "Girls Clubs" and "Producing Amateur Entertain- 
ments." 



1921] POPULARIZING FOOD FACTS 357 

The employees' lunch room was large and commodious, the food 
served cafeteria style. How could the hundreds of women and girls, men 
and boys be "attracted" to milk, for example, instead of coffee, if they 
were accustomed to cofifee? 

That was the problem: to make some plan that was attractive. The 
following was at last evolved. 

The committee decided to conduct a Food Week Campaign, in the 
lunch room itself. Around the walls, were to be hung special food pos- 
ters. Practical, informing posters? Yes, but posters on which the 
scientific information would be given in the advertising department's 
most sprightly style, with clever pictures drawn by the advertising artists. 
In this poster exhibit was to be included a display of the U. S. Government 
food pamphlets. Beneath these, a table at which a young woman would 
take the names and addresses of all who wished to obtain copies of those 
pamphlets. 

In the center of the room, there was to be a table especially reserved 
for a "diet squad. " These were to be ten store people who would volun- 
teer to eat, for one week, the lunches selected for them. An important 
factor here was that each one of the diet squad was to receive his or her 
lunches free. (No trouble in securing volunteers !) The lunches served 
to the squad were to be selected for them by a dietitian, all dishes 
being on the a la carte menu of the lunch room. 

Most important of all was to be the daily "special": some desirable 
dish offered at a reduced rate. Whoever refused a bargain? 

It was decided, also, to push some book during the week. The book 
selected was "How to Live" by Fisher and Fisk. Paper-bound copies 
of this book were to be on sale in the lunch room. Other copies for 
which people could "sign up" were to be put into the store library. 

Food week started auspiciously. As the employees entered the lunch 
room, they were confronted with a huge sign: 

THIS IS FOOD WEEK. EAT THE SPECLALS. THEY ARE CHEAP. 
TODAY— RICE. AN ENERGY-GIVING FOOD 

RICE IS CHEAP. RICE IS EASILY COOKED. RICE IS EASILY DIGESTED. 
RICE MAY BE SUBSTITUTED FOR POTATOES 

The price was also posted; the reduction, evident. As the people 
went into the lunch room, they eagerly read the posters. The following 
give an idea of the methods of presentation. 



358 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 



ENERGY WHY SCORN THE HUMBLE PRUNE? 
EAT FOR ECONOMY 

EFFICIENCY ^^^ Fruit I 

Because in fruit are acids 

EVERY DAY THIS WEEK necessary for 

We will post here HEALTH. 

A SPECIAL Obey that impulse — Eat Fruit with your 

because it's lunch every day! 



'Specially Good for You! 



TAKE YOUR TIME 



CALORIES ! CALORIES ! There is a young man I have passed 

Do You Know What They Are?? ^^^ ^^' ^^""""^ ^^'°"Sh meals so fast, 

If You Don't You Should! J?"',^,^ ^^>^^' °7' >^°" ^°°'^' 
If You Don't You Can I d better go slow, 

Find Out in Ol-r Discussion Class. ^^"^ ^ ^^^^ "^^ ^^^estion to last. 



Sign Below MR. GROUCH 

FREE! FREE!! FREE!!! 



Comes to the Table Cross. 
Then 

the He Wonders Why He Has Indigestion! 

U. S. Government Food Pamphlets ^^^^^. j^^ ^^^ GROUCH, especially at 
No Home Should Be Without Them! meals. 



A spirit of jollity at once spread about. The pictures of Mr. Grouch 
and the Young Man in a Hurry were most amusing. People began the 
first day to sign for the "free" Government pamphlets. By the second 
and third lunch hour relays, news of the special had gone around and the 
consimiption of rice increased above the average daily demand. The 
diet squad was a center of attraction. They at once renamed themselves 
''The Dietetic Pioneers" and solemnly signed a pledge, drawn up by the 
manager, "not to do any surreptitious nibbling on the side." 

The specials, offered at reduced rates for the rest of the week were : 
corn meal muffins; milk; apples or prunes; fish ("Eat Fish! Get in the 
Swim ") ; bean soup ("The Bean is one of our cheapest and most valuable 
food-stuffs"). 

The sale of items suggested for the diet squad menu increased as the 
week advanced. Each day's diet squad menu was posted beside the 
general menu of the cafeteria, with posters saying why each article of 
food had been selected by the dietitian. The day the corn meal muffins 
were on sale, the supply did not equal the demand by several dozen. 

During one lunch hour, a small leaflet (of a size to fit into a pocket or 
pocketbook) was distributed to all. The heading was: "One Day A 
Pretty Girl sat Talking to a Friend in the Lunch Room. " The conversa- 



1921] POPULARIZING FOOD FACTS 359 

tion naturally centered around the question of a good complexion and how 
to secure it. They discussed the matter of lunches, and decided forth- 
with to read, "How to Live." The demand for that book in the store 
library at once made itself felt. 

At the end of the week, the dietetic pioneers submitted the following 
report : 

"After a week of dieting, we appear to be in good health and not too 
ravenously hungry. We have learned many things about the choice of 
food, and think that in the future we shall all choose our foods more 
wisely. We have been interested in the charts and the pamphlets 
showing the food values of vegetables, meat, and fruit. 

"Each one of us is sorry that the week is over; even the man who is 
used to ha\dng coffee every lunch time wiU say on Monday, 'I wish I 
were back at the table with the dietetic pioneers. ' " 

What did this Food Week accomplish? Results in such an experiment 
are difficult to calculate. The committee in charge felt that the results 
in this instance were of two kinds. First, there were the results of the 
posters, the posted diet squad menus, the specials, and the circulars. 
For six consecutive days, the attention of hundreds had been called to 
the importance of a wise selection of food, to the relation of a choice of 
food to health. "You live by what you digest not by what you eat." 
Results of this kind are intangible. Yet we of today have a firm belief 
in the potency of the right kind of publicity, the publicity that is based 
upon scientific fact. (Witness the splendid results of the Child Health 
Organization with its popularized scientific methods.) 

The other, more tangible results of the work were listed by the com- 
mittee as follows: Over seven hundred government bulletins were sent 
for. Many purchased copies of "How to Live. " The library copies of 
the same book were in great demand, as was "Feeding the Family" by 
Rose. A small discussion group of twelve met regularly until every 
chapter of "How to Live" had been discussed. The discussion was led 
by a teacher of the store school. A month after Food Week, the director 
of the lunch room reported that the demand for the specials was still 
greater than the demand had been for the same dishes before Food Week, 
especially for corn meal muffins. The dietetic pioneers continued to 
bring in newspaper or magazine articles on food. This showed that, in 
this group at least, a definite interest in food values had been aroused. 

The committee strongly felt that the real dietetic pioneers were the 
advertising copy-writers and artists who had so colorfully presented 
food facts. 



360 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

STAND BEHIND THE FESS AMENDMENT 

A bill to help women make better homes for children and grown-ups, 
young and old— that is the Fess Home Economics Amendment. A sur- 
vey of the legislative history of this measure shows it gradually moving 
forward to its place as a law on the nation 's statutes. 

The bill was introduced in the Sixty-sixth Congress as H.R, 12078 
on January 26, 1920; it had a hearing before the Committee on Educa- 
tion of the House of Representatives on February 4, 1921; and was re- 
introduced on April 1 1 ^n the special session of the Sixty-seventh Congress 
as H. R. 21 and again referred to the House Committee on Education, 
of which the Hon. Simeon D. Fess of Ohio is chairman. 

This special session of Congress was called for the definite purpose of 
considering emergency and appropriation measures, matters of tariff and 
taxation, and had a nervous undercurrent of feeling that the country 
should enter upon no legislation entailing great outlay of money unless 
such outlay seemed a matter of immediate necessity. Mr. Fess, staunch 
in his support of the measure but with a statesman's sense of the un- 
propitious moment, seemed to feel that the time was not favorable for 
pressing any action. However, he advised the supporters of the bill to 
continue with their educational campaign. 

The members of the American Home Economics Association are 
particularly fitted for this educational work, since they can give expert 
testimony as to the value of the work to be accomplished. They must 
continue all measures which will make known the provisions of the bill 
and their purport. They must work for two definite ends. First, they 
must endeavor to make sure that every member of the House Education 
Committee fully realizes that an understanding public is anxious for the 
enactment of this law. Second, when the bill is reported out of com- 
mittee favorably and is brought up on the floor of the House in December, 
every Congressman must have been reached by you in such a way that 
he will realize that the passage of the bill will benefit his constituents and 
the nation at large. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

USE OF THE PRESSURE COOKER IN THE HOME 

MINNA C. DENTON 
Experimental Kitchen, Office of Home Economics, U. S. Departvient of Agriculture 

One of the main points in favor of the steam pressure cooker in the 
home is its usefulness in canning. There is more or less uncertainty con- 
cerning the keeping quality of vegetables and meat canned by water-bath 
methods, particularly in those climates where high temperatures and 
high humidity combine to encourage an abundant flora of resistant bac- 
teria. When there is no storage place for the canned goods other than 
one which is liable to maintain temperatures between 80° or 90° to 100°F. 
for days or weeks at a time during both day and night, the difficulties of 
water-bath canning of vegetables and meat apparently are greatly in- 
creased, and the steam pressure cooker presents the most practical 
method of solving the problem, which has so far attained any considerable 
vogue. 

Data showing the rate at which heat penetrates vegetables and fruits 
while processing, under different conditions, are now being collected in 
several laboratories. One of these laboratories has already published a 
paper. ^ Our own laboratory has a paper on this subject which is ready 
for publication.^ 

But the pressure cooker has, of course, other possibilities of usefulness 
in the household, apart from the opportunities of the canning season. 
One of these is the saving of time and fuel in the cooking of the coarse 
or tough cuts of meat. 

The effect of heat on meat proteins is usually described under two 
different headings: 

1 Heat Penetration in Processing Canned Foods. Research Laboratory, National Can- 
ners Association, Washington, D. C. 

2 See also What Temperature is Reached Inside the Jar During Home Canning. Minna 
C. Denton, Jour. Home Econ., Dec, 1918. 

361 



362 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

1. Moist heat softens and gelatinizes certain proteins found in the 
connective tissue fibers which bind together the muscular fibers. It is 
the muscular fibers which constitute most of the red parts of meat, or the 
greater part of the tissue of "white meat" (pale muscle fibers), or the 
dark portions of dark meat such as is found in the breast of certain game 
birds. The connective tissue proteins are always cooked in moist heat 
if the m.eat is properly handled; in the case of roasted meat, they cook in 
the juices of the meat tissue. At least one of the reasons why tough meat 
requires a longer tim.e to cook than does tender meat is the fact that it 
contains a larger amount of connective tissue, which therefore requires 
the application of heat for a considerable period; possibly also, additional 
water to assist in the process of hydrolysis. Overcooking of this gela- 
tinous connective tissue, in the absence of a sufficient amount of mois- 
ture, does in the end harden it, after the intermediate state in which it 
exists as a soft jelly has been passed. 

2. The effect of heat (whether moist or dry) upon certain other pro- 
teins, viz., upon some of those contained in the muscular fibers or meat 
fibers, is different from that described above. It results in the rapid 
separation of a considerable part of the moisture of the juice present in 
the muscular fiber from its protein framework, consequently the 
thoroughly cooked muscle fiber shrinks, dries, and hardens. This dry- 
ing effect is much more noticeable in long-boiled meat than in properly 
roasted or broiled meat, the boiled meat being invariably harder and 
drier — after it has been taken out of the broth in which it was cooked, 
and has been cooled — than is the case with the inner tissue of meat which 
has been successfully roasted. 

The problems of meat cookery in the pressure cooker, then, are those 
incident to finding the proper length of time for which a piece of meat 
of given size, shape, and toughness, needs to be cooked at any given set 
of temperature and moisture conditions. Two of the chief factors to be 
considered are the rate at which heat penetrates to the center of the 
piece of meat, and the amount of heat necessary to soften the connective 
tissue fibers. If this necessary amount of heat is considerable, so that 
cooking must be long continued, then, of course, it cannot be expected 
that the meat fibers will remain (or perhaps it would be better to say, 
will become) as juicy and tender as would otherwise be the case. 

If the meat which has been cooked in the pressure cooker is tough, or 
hard and dry, it is because either (1) it has not had sufficient time or a 
sufficient degree of heat and moisture to soften the connective tissue pro- 



1921] USE OF THE PRESSURE COOKER 363 

teins, or (2) because it has had too much heat, and consequently some of 
the meat proteins have become shrivelled and hard. 

It is easier to succeed with meat cookery in the pressure cooker if the 
meat is cut into rather small pieces than if it be in one large piece; be- 
cause in the former instance heat can be applied for a shorter time, con- 
sequently with less danger of rendering the outer parts of the meat 
tough or hard and dry before the inner parts are completely cooked. 
However, if the meat be from a carcass of high grade, there should be no 
difficulty in cooking a pot roast of several pounds, or a good-sized fowl, 
without cutting it into pieces. 

It is sometimes asserted that to cook meat in a pressure cooker contro- 
verts all the principles of protein cookery, whose chief postulate is that 
proteins become tough, hard, unattractive, and less digestible when sub- 
jected to the influence of high temperature. This postulate assumes, 
however, that the protein is actually subjected to the given temperature 
throughout its mass; whereas, in pressure cookery of meat, the art of 
proper cooking is to apply the high temperature only long enough to 
secure penetration of a very moderate degree (or amount) of heat to the 
center of the meat. For example, in canning chicken (cut into pieces as 
usual, i.e., breast, leg, thighs, etc.) in a pint jar, at a pressure of 15 
pounds (retort temperature 120°C.), it takes about 40 minutes for the 
temperature in the center of the jar to reach the boiling point, and 
about 60 minutes for it to reach the temperature of the steam in the 
cooker. Our experience is that the chicken is usually "done" at the end 
of 30 minutes at 15 pounds, or at least it is done by the time the pressure 
has fallen to the zero point and the jar is ready to be taken out.^ How- 
ever, it is conceivable that the effect of a rapid application of heat, such 
as brings the meat from a temperature of 20°C. to 120°C. in 60 minutes, 
is less detrimental to texture and nutritive properties (e.g. vitamines), 
than would be three hours ' cooking at the boiling point. 

Stews and boiled meats which are cooked in the pressure cooker, often 
have a richer flavor than do those cooked over the ordinary gas stove. 
Whether this is the case or not, depends upon the skiU with which the 
operator has gauged the length and temperature of the cooking process, 
also the amount of water used, with regard to the size and shape of the 
pieces of meat. The length of time required for heating before the 

' This does not mean that we recommend 30 minutes as a sufficient processing period in 
canning chicken at 15 pounds pressure. As a matter of fact, we consider that a process of 
60 minutes is much safer. It results in an attractive and palatable product, provided the 
meat continues to cook in its own rich juices and fat. 



364 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Steam reaches the desired pressure, and that required before the pressure 
falls to the zero point, must be taken into account, since the cooking pro- 
ceeds through all three of these periods, which vary somewhat in length 
with different cookers and different methods of applying heat to them. 

It is a most difficult matter to give time tables for the cooking of meats 
in the pressure cooker, which will fit all possible cases equally well; for the 
time required for cooking depends, not only upon the weight and size of 
the piece of meat to be cooked, but also upon the shape of the piece, the 
amount of bone contained, and the texture of the meat. A 7-pound pot 
roast, w^hich consists of the shoulder clod of a rather old animal, and 
which has been boned and rolled and tied to make a compact piece, may 
require 15 minutes to the pound, at 15 or 20 pounds pressure. On the 
other hand, a leg of lamb of ver\' nearly the same weight may be per- 
fectly done in less than half of that time, at the same pressure. "From 
10 to 15 minutes per pound, when tough meat is in a thick compact mass" 
is about as safe a rule as can be hazarded by the present author, at the 
moment. However, meat which is cut into pieces (chicken, beef stew) 
is not timed by the pound, but by its toughness; 30 to 50 minutes is 
the usual rule. 

Care should always be taken, not to cook longer than is really neces- 
sarj', since flavor and juiciness are sacrificed as the cooking period ad- 
vances, even when the meat is not allowed to become hard or dry. 

Batters and doughs present special difficulties when cooked under 
steam pressure; since the extra pressure on their outer surface interferes 
with the expansion of gas generated from baking powder or from soda 
and acid. We should of course expect exactly this result, just as we 
expect to use less baking powder in a high altitude where the external 
pressure is lower than usual. 

When expansion does not take place to the requisite degree during the 
earlier stages of the cooking or baking of a batter or dough, and when the 
gluten in consequence begins to "set" or "bake" or "crust" or "harden" 
before it has been properly expanded, the result is toughness and soggi- 
ness or heaviness. This is exactly the result which we get when we put 
a steamed pudding into the pressure cooker and run it at a pressure of 
15 or 20 pounds. If the pressure cooker is to be used for such a purpose, 
it is better to divide the pudding into small portions (e.g., as individual 
molds), in order to get a more rapid heat penetration and more rapid 
expansion, and thus be able to reduce the time of cooking materially. 
It is better also, during the first part of the cooking period to keep the 
pet cock wide open, and even to prop the cover up so that it fits loosely in 



1921] USE OF THE PRESSURE COOKER 365 

order that the rate of cooking be not too rapid at first. When the pud- 
ding is weU risen the lid may be clamped down and the pressure brought 
very gradually and slowly to 15 pounds for 10 or 15 minutes, in order to 
develop the "brown" or "baked" flavor due to the use of the higher 
temperature, and in order to finish the cooking process as rapidly as 
possible, and thus save time and fuel. 

Dried fruits, too, can be successfully cooked in the pressure cooker, 
although as a rule they are more easily and satisfactorily cooked at low 
temperatures where there is no possibility of developing caramel-like 
flavor, and where the water is gradually absorbed before the effect of heat 
becomes marked. Even 5 to 10 minutes at 5 pounds pressure will often 
over cook the fruit— especially if the cooking vessel contains only a small 
amount of fruit— making it mushy and extracting a large part of its 
flavor into the juice, rather than preserving it in the fruit. 

Strong-flavored vegetables such as cabbage and onions may be cooked 
in steam under pressure, with a fair degree of success, if cooked under 
water, very rapidly, and not too long. To this end, they should be cut 
into rather thin slices, well covered with boiling water, and processed 
for as short a time as possible. It is often the case, that 8 or 9 mmutes 
is long enough even for cabbage. 

The pressure cooker, then, is best suited to the cooking of tough meats, 
many cereal preparations (not most batters and doughs), dried legumes, 
and vegetables of mild flavor. 

The pressure cooker can, of course, be used for the extraction of fruit 
juices for the making of jelly by ordinary methods, provided that pams 
be taken not to over cook the fruit and thus injure the pectin. In case 
of very hard fruit or vegetable tissues, extraction in the pressure cooker 
may sometimes result in a richer juice which wiU produce a larger yield 
of jelly, than when the fruit is cooked at the boiling point. Some ex- 
perience is needed, however, in order to gauge correctly the time needed 
at any given temperature for penetration of heat to the center of the mass 
of the various amounts of fruit and water that might be used, and that 
needed to produce exactly the proper degree of "cook" for each kmd 
of fruit. Directions can hardly be given offhand, as the length of cook- 
ing period depends, not only upon the kind of fruit, but also upon its 
hardness, ripeness, juiciness, pectin content, acid and sugar content, the 
amount of water used with it, the number of pounds being cooked at one 
time, and other factors. 



366 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

SUGGESTIONS TOR THE COLLECTION OF A BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The manufacturers of pressure cookers issue cookbooks with rather 
full instructions. Some of the latest of these books give suggestions for 
the treatment of steamed puddings and strong-juiced vegetables, which 
are designed to overcome the usual difficulties experienced in cooking 
them under steam pressure, including some of the points mentioned 
above. 

Several of the home economics extension departments of agricultural 
colleges have issued leallets containing helpful suggestions for the use of 
the pressure cooker in the home. Several which happen to be in my 
possession are: Steam Pressure Cooking for the Home, Nell M. Barnett 
and Elva V. Akin, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa; The Pressure Cooker, 
Sarah L. Lewis, Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, Oregon; Steam 
Pressure for Home Cooking, Alice E. Skinner and Ida E. Rigney, State 
Agricultural College, Manhattan, Kansas; and Cooking with Steam 
Pressure in the Home, Mary B. Richardson, New Mexico College of 
Agriculture, State College, N. M. 

A number of articles have appeared in different periodicals which use 
household recipes. An article by Crissey in the Saturday Evening Post, 
March 14, 1914, reports that experimental work has been done which 
shows that fruits cooked by steam pressure wiU make 15 to 25 per cent 
more jelly than when cooked as usual in a kettle or double boiler. An 
article by Grace Gordon Hood in the Journal, August-September, 1915, 
contrasts the pressure cooker with the fireless cooker, and brings out some 
of the same points as those mentioned above. 



JELLIED GRAPEFRUIT PEEL OR ORANGE PEEL 

FA2JNY WALKER YEATMAN 
Experimental Kitchen, Office of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture 

The chief merit of the following recipe lies in the fact that the product 
has the consistency of jelly rather than that of hard candy. 

Peel from a good sized grapefruit 138 or 140 gms. or about 5 oz. 

1 cup sugar for making sirup 200 gms. or about 7 oz. 

I cup water (nearly) 150 cc. or about 5J oz. 

h cup of sugar for rolling strips 100 gms. or about Z\ oz. 

J teaspoon salt (appro.ximately) 2 gms. 



1921] JELLIED GRAPEFRUIT PEEL OR ORANGE PEEL 367 

Select light colored, heavy, smooth-skinned grapefruit or oranges 
which have a thick soft peel free from blemishes. 

Cut into strips about i to | inch wide. Cook in 1 quart of water for 
^ hour. Repeat this three times, discarding the water after each cook- 
ing. The strips should then be tender, and must be handled gently to 
keep from breaking them. 

Place in a small sauce pan (about 6 inches in diameter) the water and 
sugar and stir until the sugar is dissolved, then add the strips of grape- 
fruit or orange peel and place the pan over the flame. Allow the con- 
tents of the pan to come to the boiHng point, and cook rapidly for about 
20 minutes, then place an asbestos mat under the pan and continue the 
boiling about 20 minutes longer, or until the sirup is all absorbed by the 
peel. Great care must be taken at this point that the sirup does not 
scorch; the strips of peel must be turned frequently. Use a fork in turn- 
ing the strips and in removing them from the pan. 

Place the peel on waxed paper until cool and then roll in granulated 
sugar. Use the flat side of a knife in rolling the strips. Let the strips 
dry out for an hour or two, then wrap in waxed paper and keep in tightly 
covered tin containers until used. This confection should keep in good 
condition for two or three weeks, in moderate weather. 

The amounts of ingredients mentioned above usually make about 13 
ounces of candied or jeUied peel. 

V/hen the recipe given above is doubled it is necessary to cook the 
strips about 20 minutes longer, before the sirup is absorbed. When 
the amounts of peel and sugar are multiplied by four, increase the 
water, used in parboiling, only enough to cover the fruit well. WTien 
making the sirup, use 4 times as much sugar but only twice as much 
water. The length of time required for cooking will then be about 
60 minutes, under the conditions described above. 

The final product should be tender, jelly-like, and translucent; the 
skin should be soft. The pieces should be thick and juicy, not shrunken 
nor giunmy. The outer coating should consist of distinct crystals, and 
should not "cake" or form a crust. 



Showing the citrus growers of California how to make candy, chem- 
icals, marmalade, and vinegar out of the lemons, oranges, and grape- 
fruit that were formerly wasted has been the job of the Citrus By-Pro- 
ducts Laboratory of the U. S. Department of Agriculture in Los Angeles. 



368 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECOMOMICS [AugUSt 

A HOSIERY GUIDE FOR THE SHOPPER 

ELLEN MILLER 
The Merrill-Palmer School, Detroit 

The shopper may have a definite idea of the kind of hosiery she wishes 
to buy, and yet fail to find it because she does not ask for it in correct 
terms. Or she may know *he trade names without knowing the rela- 
tion of the manufactunng process to the durability or appearance of the 
finished product. This list of hosiery terms with their definitions may 
help her to decide what she wants and to find it. 

DEFINITIONS USED IN MANUFACTURE AND SALE 

Cut hosiery. The material is woven in a long tube. It is then cut 
into lengths; the feet are cut and sewed on sewing machines. This 
cheap t}^e of hosiery is almost obsolete. 

Seamless hose. Any stocking knitted in a tubular form so that no 
seams are necessary-. 

Shaped hose. Hosiery that is knitted with a straight tubular leg and 
then stretched and pressed to shape in the finishing processes. Some- 
times the stitch is made looser in the upper part of the leg to allow 
greater elasticity. This process of shaping generally determines the 
size of seamless hosiery, and explians the bagginess and the shortness 
of the foot after laundering. Cheapest type in common use. 

Fashioned hose. Seamless hose knitted on a machine which shapes 
the garment by controlling the number of stitches. Distinguished by 
dart or gusset in calf of leg. 

Full-fashioned hose. Knitted fiat. They are shaped by controlling 
the number of stitches in leg, heel, instep, and toe, and are finally stitched 
from the tip of the toe to the top of the stocking. This is the best 
fitting and also the most expensive type of hose. 

Mock-seam hose. This type of garment is knitted tubularly and then 
seamed down the back of the leg. This process, while it does not fashion 
the garment, imitates the effect of a more expensive type of stocking. 

Looping. Loose, elastic finish which closes the tip of the toe and the 
bottom of the heel of a full-fashioned hose and of some seamless hose. 
It may or may not be of the same color as the hose. 

Boarding. The process of shaping the finished hosiery by stretching 
over shaped boards, steaming, and drying. This is the process which 



1921] DOES NOT THIS APPLY TO ALL NATURAL RESOURCES ? 369 

determines the shape and size of a "shaped" stocking and accentuates 
the shape of a fashioned or full-fashioned hose. 

Split-foot. Foot made with a different material in the upper portion 
from that used in the sole. This was originally a white sole. 

Lisle. Cotton yam made by doubling together two threads, one spun 
with a right-hand and the other a left-hand twist. Firm, hard-wearing 
yam. 

Mercerized yarn. Yam subjected to an alkaline bath and dried under 
tension. Mercerized yarn is more lustrous and has a greater affinity for 
dyes than yam not so treated. 

Gassing. Process of singeing the fuzzy ends from the surface of a 
mercerized yarn, thus leaving it smooth and lustrous. 

Dipped silk hose. Hose knitted from undyed yam and dyed after 
manufacture is complete — may be of silk; silk and cotton; or of silk, 
fiber silk, and cotton mixture. Not heavily loaded. 

Ingrain hose. Dyed in the yam. Heavily loaded. Lustrous and 
heavy. Durability varies greatly with individual who wears them and 
the care given them. Perspiration very injurious. Distinguished by 
looping, in heel and toe, of a color differing from the body of the garment. 

Silk plated hose. Made of a two-thread yam; the silk thread is thrown 
to the surface in knitting. Generally durable, although silk may rough 
up and wear off the surface. 

Cashmere hose. Worsted yarn with a woolen finish. Fine ribbed, 
soft, and comparatively thin. 



DOES NOT THIS APPLY TO ALL NATURAL RESOURCES? 

"One who recklessly, defiantly, persistently, and continuously wastes 
natural gas, and boldly declares his purpose to continue to do so 

ought not to complain of being branded as the enemy 

of mankind It is not the use of unlimited quantities of 

gas that is prohibited, but it is the waste of it that is forbidden. The 
object and policy of that inhibition is to prevent, if possible, the exhaus- 
tion of the store house of nature, wherein is deposited an element that 
ministers more to the comfort, happiness, and well-being of society 
than any other of the bounties of the earth." — Indiana Supreme Court. 



370 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

CHOOSING A WASHING MACHINE 

Wherever two or thr.a housekeepers are gathered together nowadays 
there is almost sure to be discussion pro and con of the various kinds of 
power washing machines. Though helpful to the woman who is about 
to buy a machine, such an experience meeting does not give her the com- 
plete information she needs to make her a competent judge of the various 
kinds as suited to her needs. Unfortunately the federal government and 
other disinterested agercies have not so far had the funds with which to 
make comparative tests of even the representative types of washing 
machines, and hence can not answer her questions from a basis of 
thorough-going research. 

A group of Connecticut Grange women therefore decided to find out 
for themselves whether the electric-driven washing machine was eco- 
nomical and practicable for use in their community, where electricity 
costs 16 cents per kilowatt hour, and which of several makes would give 
best results. Arrangements were made with manufacturers whereby 
various types of machines were installed in homes and their efficiency 
scored by the committee on the following points: efficiency in washing; 
wear and tear on clothes; convenience of operation; durability; and cost 
of operation. Some of the machines were found so inefiicient in cleaning 
clothes and to have such serious mechanical defects that they could 
hardly be called labor-saving devices, while others did their work tho- 
roughly, quietly, and quickly. The highest score given by these Connec- 
ticut housekeepers to a machine was ninety-one. 

This test was of course imperfect in many ways because conditions 
vary in different households and some women are much better mechanics 
than others. The results show, however, that the consumer need not 
necessarily accept the glowing statements of the advertiser of even so 
complicated a piece of household equipment as a power washing machine, 
but that groups of women can make practical tests which will aid them 
in selecting equipment from the bewildering array now on the market. 

R. V. D. 



EDITORIAL 

Isabel Bevier. Anyone not in the family might think that the por- 
trait which forms the frontispiece of this issue^ belonged exclusively to 
the subject who furnished the inspiration and to the artist who was able 
to see the real concentrated essence of her and to record his vision in 
this enduring and endearing and marvelously beautiful form. But no, 
the whole home economics world is preening itself: she is ours. Ours 
from the time, more than 20 years ago, when she started the department 
of home economics at the University of Illinois, from the time, some 
years later, when Mrs. Richards told an anxious mother that the sanest 
course was at Illinois, to a recent meeting of the Association at which Dr. 
Langworthy expressed our united feelings in referring to her as the lady 
whom we all delight to honor and always miss when she is absent. 

Perhaps no one has ever tried seriously to analyze Isabel Bevier. We 
are very proud of being really scientific in one part of our field, and really 
artistic in another. Here is an expression of the whole of us : an artistic 
analysis of our Dean. Louis Betts has looked beyond the teacher, be- 
yond the executive, and has chosen, as he himself says, to portray the 
woman. The utter truth of this, which instantly strikes anyone who 
knows Miss Bevier well, stirs in one a new distrust of scientific analysis 
as an exclusive method of arriving at truth, a new realization of the 
need of striving for a vision of the whole of the object of one 's observ^a- 
tion; for how many people have been able to see clearly beyond the 
teacher, or the executive, whichever it was they came to know. And 
yet, one instantly feels, in looking at it, that this is the portrait of her 
very self, her essential sweetness, her utter lack of conceit, her real 
serenity, under all the vigor and vitality. One can even look deeper, and 
see something of the reason for the intensity with which she always 
attends to her "job." 

Here's to her! May she long continue to stimulate and inspire us! 
And now that she has given up her particular, individual job, may she 
help us to see with clearer and larger vision our corporate job, to see how 
we may make home economics deliver its maximum contribution to the 
education of American women. 

1 The portrait of Isabel Bevier was presented to the University of Illinois, by the alumnae 
of the Department of Home Economics and friends, at the Recognition Service held May 20, 
1921. It is printed through the courtesy of the committee on arrangements. Copies in color 
may be obtained from Miss Ada Hunt, University of Illinois, Urbana, at $1.00 a copy. 

371 



372 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

The Cooking of Green Vegetables. The color of a cooked vegetable 
may be one standard of judging the desirabiUty of a cooking process, 
but it is certainly not the only one which should be considered in our 
teaching. It is hard to reconcile the facts, which modern research in 
nutrition are revealing, with the methods of cooking green vegetables 
which are advocated by some textbooks and teachers. 

It is true that a vegetable cooked in a surplus of water which is later 
discarded will have a mildei flavor and probably a better color than one 
cooked in a very small \mount of water. Masters and Garbutt^ attrib- 
ute the deterioration in color chiefly to the action, on the chlorophyll, 
of acids liberated during cooking. They found that during cooking 
hydrogen sulfid and probably also volatile organic acids were freed. 
WTien vegetables were cooked in steamers or in closed vessels with a 
small amount of water, the retention of those acids was increased and 
gave a darkened product. These writers advocate cooking the vege- 
tables in an open vessel containing a surplus of rapidly boiling water 
(the water to be discarded later) to insure a maximum loss of volatile 
acids and a diluting effect upon the soluble acids, both of which might 
otherwise darken the color of the vegetable. 

The other side of the question is presented in data on the losses of 
minerals and vitamines during cooking by their passage into the cooking 
water. As much as 50 per cent or more of the total ash of vegetables, 
and also practically one-half of the iron were found by Blunt and Otis^ 
to be lost in the water in which the vegetables were boiled. The anti- 
neuritic vitamine commonly called the water-soluble B has been found 
by Miller^ and also by Whipple^ to pass into the cooking water to the 
extent of 36 to 70 per cent when quantitative methods for the estima- 
tion of that vitamine were employed. Parallel with these findings are 
those of Denton^ on losses of fuel value. This author found that from 
15 to 60 per cent of the caloric value of boiled vegetables was lost. 

* H. Masters and P. Garbutt. An Investigation of the Methods Employed for Cooking 
Vegetables, with Special Reference to the Losses Incurred. Part II. Green Vegetables, 
Biochem. Jour., 14 (1920), p. 75. 

* K. Blunt and F. Otis. Losses of Iron in Cooking Vegetables, Jour. Home Econ., 9 (1917), 
p. 213. 

* E. W. Miller. The Effect of Cooking upon the Water-soluble Vitamine in Carrots and 
Navy Beans, Jour. Biol. Cheni., 44 (1920), p. 159. 

* B. K. WTupple. Water-soluble B in Cabbage and Onion, Jour. Biol. Chem., 44 (1920), 
p. 175. 

' M. C. Denton. Changes in the Food Value of Vegetables Due to Cooking, Jour. Home 
Econ., 11 (1919), p. 143 and 200. 



1921] OPEN FORUM 373 

Two of the many questions which come to mind when all these facts 
are considered are: first, is it not possible to cook vegetables in such a 
way that volatile acids arc expelled to avoid discoloration and that the 
liquid will still be of such small volume that it can be served with the 
vegetable? Experimental cooking teaches us that there are often many 
ways of arriving at a good product. It is hoped that the literature on 
this subject will be increased by more experimental data soon. The other 
question is, does the ordinary American diet contain such an abundance 
of minerals and vitamines that we can aflford such losses as we incur by 
pouring vegetable water down the sink-drain? 

THE OPEN FORUM 

A Piece of Home Economics Work. The Vocational Summary 
for April gives an interesting account of nutrition work being conducted 
by the Department of Home Economics, Michigan Agricultural College, 
for a group of Federal Board men in training in that institution. Fifty 
per cent of the 157 men enrolled were diagnosed as suffering from malnu- 
trition. Several having arrested cases of tuberculosis were in dire need of 
special diet. Dean Mary Sweeny, Head of the Home Economics Depart- 
ment, took the matter in hand and, as a result, fifteen of the more critical 
cases were placed under the care of Hilda Faust, instructor in charge of 
the work in nutrition. In order that they may understand the treatment 
and follow the instructions given, the men attend a nutrition class. 
Meals are served to them at cost by the students in dietetics. The im- 
mediate result has been that these men have not only gained in general 
health, but will be able to complete their training which, without this 
help, might not be possible. 

But this touches a local situation only. The time has come for home 
economics departments and people to ally themselves definitely with the 
larger health programs. It may be that the beginning will have to be 
made through educating the presidents and general faculties of their col- 
leges, but most of all they will need to take counsel among themselves 
as to how their teaching can be made vital as well as academic. Students 
preparing to teach in the public schools must be inspired to take the place 
and responsibility for which their training fits them. With the general 
awakening to the importance of health education in the schools there is 
no room for the home economics trained teacher who allows her work 
to be limited to classes in "cooking and sewing." 

A. R. V. 



374 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: Why is beefsteak toughened by covering when sauteing 
while chicken under the same condition is made more tender? 

Answer: A chicken used for sauteing contains a much more delicate 
coimective tissue matrix than does the beef usually cooked in this way. 
Comparisons made between a very tender piece of beef, for example ten- 
derloin, and chicken approximately one year old of equal thickness will 
show that these two will become tender in approximately the same time. 

Question: Are phosphate baking powders as quick in action as cream 
of tartar powders when they come in contact with water? 

Answer: Both phosphate and cream of tartar powders give off gas 
ver}^ quickly, the reaction beginning as soon as water comes in contact 
with the powders. The phosphate powders are combinations of sodiimi 
bicarbonate and acid potassium phosphate in some cases and acid calcium 
carbonate in others. These are both more soluble in cold water than 
cream of tartai, and, therefore, the reaction in the cold is completed in 
somewhat less time than when cream of tartar is used. 

Question: What efifect has vinegar in fat used for frying doughnuts? 

Answer: The addition of vinegar to doughnuts will in no way affect 
the efficiency of the frying process. The smoking fat is sufficiently hot to 
drive off or decompose the organic acids contained in the vinegar. Acetic 
acid boils at 119°C. whereas the fat used in frying doughnuts is heated to 
220°C. 

Question: Does the pressure cooker with its high temperature make 
protein foods harder to digest? 

Answer: Certain types of protein-containing foods, for example peas 
and beans, are rendered more digestible by cooking in the pressure cooker, 
the high temperature being more effective than the boiling temperature 
in dissolving the hemicelluloses. It is possible, furthermore, that the 
high temperature renders the protein of the bean (phaseolin) more readily 
digestible. Recent work has shown that cooking this protein for five 
minutes gave "detectable increase in digestibility" while cooking for 
three-quarters of an hour was apparently sufficient to produce the maxi- 
mum effect.^ 

Tough meats also may be made more readily digestible by cooking at 
high temperature, owing to the fact that the tough coimective tissue is 
more readily hydrolized (gelatinized). ^ Egg white and cheese, on the 
other hand, would be less readily digested than if prepared by the usual 
methods. 

' The Effect of Cooking on the Digestability of Phaseolin. Proc. of the Amer. Soc. of Biol. 
Chemists, Dec. 28-30, 1920. 

' See also pages 361 to 366 of this issue of the Journal. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Standards of Living. A Compilation of Bud- 
getary Studies. Bureau of Applied Eco- 
nomics, Washington, D. C, 1920, pp. 
156. $3.00. 

This book brings up to date the summaries 
of budgetary studies published in earlier 
bulletins of the Bureau of Applied Eco- 
nomics, and there are added digests of 
later studies. For purposes of comparison 
there are also added the results of such early 
work as the studies of More and Chapin, 
made in New York City in 1907. A few 
of the headings will show the wide range of 
these papers: Minimum Quantity Budget 
Necessary to Maintain a Family in Health 
and Decency, made by the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, 1920; Budget for Bituminous 
Coal Mine Workers, 1919; Working Man's 
Standard of Living in Philacelphia, 1918; 
Minimum Budgetary Estimate for Pacific 
Coast Workers, 1918. 

Perhaps the study which adds most to our 
scanty knowledge of budgets beyond the 
working man's income is the Tentative Quan- 
tity and Cost Budget Necessary to Maintain 
a Family of Five in Washington, D.C., at a 
Level of Health and Decency, the aim of 
the study being to furnish information for 
the use of the Joint Commission of Congress 
on reclassification of salaries for government 
employees. 

The great value of the papers here brought 
together can hardly be appreciated by those 
who have given the subject no special study. 
Out of many confused statements there 
emerges some certainty as to the quantity of 
things necessary to the maintenance of a 
family. For this end, close study by people 
of experience in actual conditions, an average 
and comparison of many such observations, 
and that judgment which knows how to vary 



from the iron rule in the interest of the larger 
truth are all necessary. The pricing of the 
quantity budget is a mechanical matter 
easily adjusted to changes, but the fixing 
of standards once made may remain of more 
or less permanent value. These studies 
show the intelligence of the directing mind 
of Royal Meeker, the former chief of the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics. 

Those who feel that such estimates must 
be largely theoretical will be surprised at 
the wealth of detailed study on which con- 
clusions are here based. 

The discussion of the number of rooms 
necessary per family is suggestive to those 
who have considered that no standard is 
possible. For the working man a little 
less than one room per person is found to 
be common. A valuable suggestion is made 
that floor space is a better basis of require- 
ments than is the number of rooms; 550 to 
660 square feet is thus seen to have great 
possibilities. It would be worth while to 
work out the possibilities of one room of 
ample proportions by the use of screens, 
sliding doors, folding beds, and other devices. 

A depressing thing in the reading of these 
budgets is the monotony of life and of pleas- 
ures. Little of the creative seems to be pos- 
sible. The moving picture is the sole form 
of amusement. It would be interesting tcs 
compare in this regard the life of the family 
in foreign countries living on the same 
amount of money. Another difference 
would probably appear: none of these 
families studied have savings except in the 
form of life insurance. 

It is to be regretted that the price of this 
reprint of what were free publications is 
placed at $3.00. 

Mahy H. Abel. 



375 



376 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



Household Budget. Home Economics Bureau, 

Society for Saxdngs, Cleveland. Distrib- 

ted free to depositors; to others, 50 cents. 

Sarah J. MacLeod, Director of the Home 
Economics Bureau, is responsible for this 
combination budget and account book which 
shows plainly the result of her practical 
experience in budget making. 

It is not merely an account book, but a 
budget record as well, and, if ased as 
directed, gives constant possibility for 
comparison between the budget as planned 
and the actual expenses. Clear, concise 
directions for use are given in the opening 
pages. Miss MacLeod makes it evident that 
a record of money spent is of little value 
unless used for studj' and as a basis for new 
and better plans. 

Unlike the usual budget-making directions 
of five years ago, there is no suggestion that 
any definite percentages can be ''ideal" 
when applied to var>'ing incomes or 
conditions. 

It is good to note that ' 'Savings" is not 
given as a sub-heading, but is one of the six 
general divisions, and starts the list under 
which all of the expenditures are grouped. 
The sub-headings are clear and definite with 
little opportunity for misunderstanding. 
Where two or three forms of e.xpense are 
entered in one column, one or the other is a 
fixed charge and easily subtracted from the 
total so that there is no necessity for con- 
fusion when making estimates for a new 
budget plan. 

Aliss MacLeod has carefully avoided that 
pitfall for the inexperienced, a column for 
miscellaneous or sundry expenses. House- 
keepers will find few columns which they will 
not need to use or of which they will want to 
change the headings. There are suSicient 
blank columns so that expenditures for items 
not common to every family, as automobile, 
care of grounds, may be entered by them- 
selves; clothing charges may be subdivided 
if preferred, and details regarding anyone 
item may be kept until standardized and 
then again combined with the larger group. 

There are many account books on the 
market, but few so fle.xible, simple, and at the 
same time so practical, as this. There is 



little danger that the inexperienced will be 
afraid to attempt its use. The book shows 
the result of practice rather than theory. 

Miss MacLeod's book solves a problem for 
many people who have for years crossed out 
suggested headings and written in their own, 
or found themselves obliged to combine 
records which they wished to keep separate. 
Yet even this will meet with objections, as 
some will prefer to keep their contributions to 
benevolence apart from church pledges. 
Every practical worker realizes that just as 
there are no ideal percentages applicable to 
ever>' problem, so there are no ideal account 
books which will suit every housekeeper. 
That Miss MacLeod has succeeded in coming 
near to that ideal is a matter for congratula- 
tion. 

S. Agnes Donham. 

The Art of Spending and The Weekly Allow- 
ance Book. Published for Banks by 
The American School of Home Economics, 
306 West 69th Street, Chicago. 10 
cents each. 

The Art of Spending takes up a discus- 
sion of budgeting, and gives detailed descrip- 
tions of the accounting check books for 
personal, household, farm, and office use, 
and also of the Weekly Allowance Book, 
all of which have been devised by the author. 
A list of helpful books is included. The 
pamphlet is intended for wide distribution 
and it should do much towards arousing 
interest in personal and family budgeting. 
The Weekly Allowance Book is a small 
budget and expense book which carries 
accounts for thirteen weeks or one-fourth 
of a year. It has the advantage of being 
small enough to be slipped into either the 
pocket or the purse. The expenses are 
classified as Savings, Food, Clothing, Rent, 
Operating, Advancement, Luxuries, and 
Personal. Provision is made for the daily 
and weekly totals of the expenditures as 
classified. This book should make a special 
appeal to people who desire a weeklj' rather 
than monthly account system, and it should 
help these people to systematize their 
saving and spending. 

Sarah MacLeod 



1921] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



377 



The Nursery School. By Margaret Mc- 
Millan. New York: E. P. Button and 
Company, 1919, pp. 356. $4.00. 

Nursery School Education. By Grace Owen. 

New York: E. P. Button and Company, 

1920, pp. 176. $2.50. 

These two books are descriptive of the 
Nursery School Movement in England, a 
movement of special interest to those con- 
cerned with the nurture — that is, the hygiene 
and education — of children between two and 
five years of age. In so far as this group 
of young children is a matter of public con- 
cern in this country it is provided for almost 
exclusively by volunteer organizations, while 
in England it is provided for by the govern- 
ment. This provision, first made by the 
English government after the passage of the 
Fisher Bill in 1918, was largely the result of 
war conditions which threw into high relief 
the value of child life, and led to the estab- 
lishment of the nursery school as the first 
step in the English educational system. 

In her book. Miss McMillan, one of the 
pioneers in this movement, gives an intensive 
study of her nursery school, a joyous spot 
in a besotted part of London. She writes 
with the fervor and enthusiasm of the pio- 
neer, the person of vision. Throughout its 
pages her book is suffused with deep emotion 
caused by the sacrificial death of her beloved 
sister and co-worker, Rachel, who suc- 
cumbed to e.xhaustion in her efifort to provide 
mothering for England's neglected children. 
Naturally the appeal is intensely human. 
Miss McMillan has put all she has and is 
into this work, vitalizing it with a person- 
ality distinctive for its charm and ability. 
As a consequence her nursery school is con- 
sidered remarkable for its health record and 
for its social value. Educationally one may 
question her methods, but the fact remains 
that the children are wholesomely happy, 
and furnish the joy motive that runs through- 
out the book. 

Miss Owen, writing from the standpoint 
of an experienced teacher, makes an exten- 
sive study of the nursery school movement, 
giving a clear idea of its history, purpose, 
and educational procedure. She is principal 



of the Mather Training College, affiliated 
with Manchester University, and, as is inter- 
esting to note, received part of her training 
at Teachers College, Columbia University. 
Three specialists — two in the field of educa- 
tional psychology, and one a physician — 
collaborate with her in writing this book, 
which is by far the best presentation of the 
matter yet published. It states that the 
free kindergarten was the immediate pioneer 
of the nursery school, and in a clear way notes 
the features in both kindergarten and day 
nursery most valuable in the nurture of 
young children. The appeal is to the intelli- 
gence rather than to the emotions. Edu- 
cationally the book inspires confidence. 

In a word Miss McMillan's book is espe- 
cially valuable in arousing popular interest 
in the nurture of young children, while Miss 
Owen's book is the safer guide when it comes 
to actual work with children and students- 
in-training. Both books are full of sugges- 
tion and inspiration for those interested in 
demonstration nurseries connected with 
schools of household arts and science; kin- 
dergartens; day nurseties; "Little Mothers' 
Clubs"; training courses for child nurses; 
pre-school groups in private schools, play- 
rooms, playgrounds. 

These books are significant because they 
mark the educational approach to the pre- 
school period, a new development which has 
been long awaited. The medical approach 
has already been made with signal success. 
But the combination of the educational and 
the medical is needed if adequate pro\'ision 
is to be made for the nurture of young chil- 
dren. War conditions have forced England 
to make such provision. In this country we 
are only beginning to realize that to allow 
children to become handicapped in count- 
less preventable ways before they enter 
school is an unpardonable wrong for an 
intelligent people to commit. All this is 
brought home to us with convincing earnest- 
ness by these two English women who point 
the way in this educational advance, so 
basic and far-reaching in its importance to 
individual and to national life. 

Elizabeth Jenkins. 



378 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



The Conservation of Textiles. By Haii\t:y 
Gerald Elledge and Alice Lucille 
Wakefield. Published by Laundry 
0\vners Association, LaSalle, Illinois, 
Sl.OO. 

The Laundry Owners Association has 
constantly presented to its members, through 
the national and state association meetings 
and through its monthly publications, new 
formulae for bettering the work of i' e trade. 
Teachers of textiles and dyc'ng, as well as 
super\-isors of hospital and school laundries, 
will gain much from these commercial publi- 
cations. Unfortunately all are not within 
reach of the person out of the trade and it 
is for this reason we welcome the chance to 
purchase such a report. 

The book is a report of five years' work in 
the Research Department of Mellon Insti- 
tute, Pittsburgh, Pa. It is divided in to 
chapter headings— Fibers, Weaves, Mechan- 
ical Source of Damage, Corrosive Materials, 
— and ends with a comprehensive chapter 
and chart on Treatment for Stains. 

The illustrations, made through a very 
powerful microscope, have great value in 
showing irregularities in cheap and dishonest 
fabrics, besides the reason for the short life 
of many. 

The book presents the laundry man's 
study of the reasons for the hea\y blame 
thrust by the housewife upon him rather 
than upon the manufacturer. 

Often the short life of the fabric is due to 
poor weave, poor and irregular length fibres, 
and to the physical and chemical wear and 
tear of sunUght, dust, bad soaps, body 
excretions, to say nothing of the effect of 
bleaches and dyes. 

L. Ray Balderson, 

Teachers College. 

More Recipes for Fifty, by Frances Lowe 
Smith, was mislisted, in the Bibliography 
of the April Journal, as a revised edition of 
Recipes and Menus for Fifty. More Recipes 
for Fifty does not duplicate the earlier 
book, but contains new material prepared 
to meet conditions arising from the war. 



Breakfasts, Luncheons, and Dinners. By 
Mary D. Chambers. Boston Cooking 
School Magazine Company. 1920, pp. 
137, $1.25. 

This little book attempts to cover a good 
deal of ground, for its sub-title is "How to 
plan them, how to serve them, how to be- 
have at them. A book for home and 
school." While it contains six pages on 
"the balanced menu" and eight pages of 
tables showing the caloric value of foods 
and their vitamine content, the book is 
essentially a book on table etiquette, and 
this on the whole seems to be correctly and 
clearly given. It is emphatically not a book 
for general school use, however, for the 
simple home service of a meal is hardly more 
than suggested, while minute directions are 
given for elaborate service. This is not in 
accord ■nith the suggestion made in a recent 
number of the Journal that in the schools 
it is time that we recognized frankly that 
home service must, under existing conditions, 
be generally of the service-without-a-maid 
type. 

The book as a whole is not faddish, so one 
is somewhat surprised to learn that "it is a 
sign of ignorance of good usage to eat one's 
cereal with a teaspoon — a fact which girls 
in school, or even in college, are not always 
aware of." Nor is the suggestion that the 
breakfast napkins must be smaller than the 
dinner napkins very practical for most house- 
holds. One wonders if the "unwritten law 
that a solid color of any kind (for a table 
cloth), with scalloping in a contrasting color 
or in white, is admissible for either breakfast 
or lunch, but a two-colored fabric is not to 
be thought of, still less a checked one" may 
not be a short-lived style instead; for imme- 
diately an exception is made of Japanese 
crepe in blue and white. On page 100 nearly 
half a page is devoted to forbidding one to 
lift a glass or cup by putting "even one 
finger inside." As the principle underlying 
the objection is not mentioned, however, 
one ignorant enough to need the reproof 
might serenely set the table in this way, 
thinking the objection was to being seen 
doing it; and nothing at all is said in regard 
to picking up a glass with one's fingers too 



1921] 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 



379 



near the top, even although they are entirely 
"on the outside." 

The book however will undoubtedly find 
its place with those persons interested in the 
niceties of etiquette. 

Mabel T. Wellman, 
Indiana University. 

Dehydrating Foods, Fruits, Vegetables, Fish, 

and Meats. By A. Louise Andrea. 

Boston: The Comhill Company, 1920, 

pp. 198. $1.75. 

This book discusses a method of dehydrat- 
ing food without previous cooking that, it is 
claimed, may be successfully applied to a 
majority of foods. It also presents argu- 
ments for the use of dehydrated products. 
The directions for the "home hydration" of 
food are clear and specific, and should be 
easy for the housewife to follow. The appa- 
ratus for the household as well as commer- 
cial use is clearly described. The second 
half of the book is devoted to recipes for the 
use of the various dehydrated products. 



Five Short Home Economics Plays. Written 
and presented by students in Oklahoma 
College for Women. Published by S. 
Deborah Haines, 1372 E. 57th St., Chi- 
cago, 1921, pp. 15. Ten cents. 
These health plays were written by the 
Freshman home economics students in their 
English classes. They effectively demon- 
strate what can be accomplished by coordi- 
nating home economics work with other 
subjects in the school curriculum. 

These playlets are one-act plays and would 
require about ten minutes each for presenta- 
tion. "Little Potatoes" and "Fairyland and 
Real Life" could be used as illustrative 
material in nutrition class work. The other 
plays, "The Prodigal," "Foundation Stones 
in Home Building" and "Mother's Wise 
and Foolish Children" are especially adapted 
for use in home economics classes in upper 
grades. 

Gertrude Gates Mxjdge. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 



CURRENT PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Compiled by Margaret Norton 

Food and Dietetics 

Commercial Possibilities of Dehydration. Henry W. Banks, Amer. Food Jour., Apr. 
1921. 

European Research on Vitamines, (Abstracts from foreign journals). Amer. Food Jour., 
Apr. 1921. 

Food Value of Margarin. J. S. Abbott, Amer. Food Jour., Apr. 1921. 

"Sugola" a New Type of Sirup. C. S. Hudson, Amer. Food Jour., Apr. 1921. 

Values of Fats and Fat Substitutes. John Phillips Street, Amer. Food Jour., March 
1921. 

Nutritive Value of Soy Bean Flour as a Supplement to Wheat Flour. C. O. Johns & 
A. J. Finks, Amer. Jour. Physiol., Apr. 1921. 

Nutritive Value of Yeast in Bread. P. B. Hawk and others, Atner. Jour. Physiol., 
May 1921. 

Vitamine Content of Honey and Honey Comb. P. B. Hawk and others, Amer. Jour. 
Physiol., Apr. 1921. 

Sanitation in Bakeries. H. E. Barnard, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, May 1921. 

Food Inspection in Cleveland. R. J. Perkins. Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, May 1921. 

Present Status of Fruit and Vegetable Dehydration. W. V. Cruess, Chem. and Mettalur. 
£«gm., May4, 1921. 



380 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Problems in the Preparation of Copra and Coconut Oil. H. C. Brill, Chem. and Metallur. 
£ngm., Mar. 30, 1921. 

Social Case Work as a Part of Home Economics Education. E. A. Winslow, The Family, 
May 1921. 

Nutritional Work in Public Schools .... Chicago. K. B. Rich, Jour. Amer. 
Med. Assn., Apr. 9, 1921. 

Ophthahnia and Diet. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., May 14, 1921. 

Storage of \'itamines in the Body. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., May 14, 1921. 

Variations in the Antiscorbutic Potency of Milk. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 
Apr. 16, 1921. 

Antiscorbutic Potency of Milk Powders. E. B. Hart and others. Jour. Biol. Chem., 
Apr. 1921. 

Some Ober\'ations on the Stability of the Antiscorbutic Vitamine and its Behavior to 
Various Treatments. N. R. Ellis and others. Jour. Biol. Chem., Apr. 1921. 

On Rope (and sourness) in Bread. D. J. Lloyd and others. Jour. Hygiene, Mar. 1921. 

Hotel Field and Home Economics Graduates. E. M. Statler, Mod. Hosp., Apr. 1921. 

Improving the Hospital Food Service. Herbert Collins, Mod. Hosp., May 1921. 

Reducing Institutional Food Costs. Margaret Hooker, Mod. Hosp., Apr. and May 
1921. 

The Teaching Dietitian in Public Health Work. Fairfax T. Proudfit, Mod. Hosp., 
Apr. 1921. 

Our Sahnon Surplus. Chirsty Thomas, Rev. of Rev., Apr. 1921. 

Milk without Cows. S. R. Winters, 5a. Amer., Apr. 23, 1921. 

When Humptj'-Dumpty Travels. H. G. Mount, Sci. Amer., Apr. 2, 1921. 

WTien Oysters are in Season. S. R. Winters, Sci. Amer., May 14, 1921. 

Stalking of the Vitamines. W. H. Eddy, Teachers Coll. Rec, Mar. 1921. 

Botulism and Spoiled Canned Food. U. S. Pub. Health Repls., Apr. 1921. 

Malnutrition. Taliaferro Clark, U S. Pub. Health Repis., Apr. 29, 1921. 

A Stable Silver Vitamine Compound Obtained from Brewer's Yeast. U. S. Pub. Health 
Repts.,ApT. 1, 1921. 

Clothing and Furnishings 

Art of Designing and Furnishing the Summer Home. F. A. Parsons, Country Life, 
May 1921. 

Selecting Patterns in Textiles. E. S. HoUoway, Good Furniture Magazine, Apr. 1921. 

Problem of Texture in Decoration. Phyllis Ackerman, House Beautiful, May 1921. 

Chintz in Your Curtains. Aaron Davis, House and Garden, Apr. 1921. 

Some Suggestions for Clothing Courses in 1921. Janet Thurston and Rosamond Cook, 
Indus. Arts, Apr. 1921. 

The Hospital Laundr>' and Fabrics. Walter Trimble, Mod. Hosp., May 1921. 

Practical Costume Problems for the High School. Florence Morrison, School Arts 
Magazine, A.^T.\92\ . 

Sources for Costimie Design. Ruth Hutchins, School Arts Magazine, Apr. 1921. 

Textiles Manufacturing Processes for Manual Training. W. H. Dooley, School Arts 
Magazine, Apr. 1921. 

Miscellaneous 

School Cafeterias as a Community Asset. American City, Apr. 1921. 
Roman Cooking Utensils in the Royal Ontario Museum of Archaeology. Cornelia G. 
Harcum, Amer. Jour. Archaeol., 2d ser. 25 (1921), No. 1. 

Garbage Incinerators. R. H. Moulton, House Beaulifid, May 1921. 

Household Mechanics. J. H. Tr>-bom, Indus. Arts, May 1921. (Description of course 

in Detroit Public Schools.) 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Fourth Annual Meeting of the 
American Dietetic Association will be 
held October 24 to 26 at the LaSalle Hotel, 
Chicago, Illinois. Miss Emma Gunther, 
Teachers College, is chairman of the program 
committee. 

The present oflScers are: Mrs. Mary De 
Garmo Bryan, president; Ruth Wheeler, first 
vice-president; Rena Eckman, second vice- 
president; Lulu G. Graves, honorary presi- 
dent; Ellen Gladwin, treasurer; E. M. Ger- 
aghty, 801 S. Wright St., Champaign, 
Illinois, secretary. 

The chairmen of sections are: Adminis- 
tration — Mary Lindsley, Manager Grace 
Dodge Hotel, Washington, D. C; Education 
— Ruth Wheeler, Professor of Nutrition, 
University of Iowa Medical School; Social 
Service — Lucy Gillett, Head of the Nutrition 
Bureau, Association for Improving the Con- 
dition of the Poor; Dieto-therapy — Rena 
Eckman, University of Michigan Hospital. 

The morning and afternoon sessions will 
be taken up with the work of the various 
sections, addresses along the specific lines of 
the work done, and round table discussions 
of the problems of each section. The even- 
ing talks will be of important general interest 
to all members. 

The administrative section has been mak- 
ing a study of equipment, supplies, wages, 
food, and morale of employees. This repre- 
sents the best experience of trained dietitians 
in institutions in all sections of the country, 
and will be presented in usable form. 

The education section will present the 
work of its committees dealing with the hos- 
pital training of the student dietitian, grad- 
uate work for the dietitian, and the curric- 
ulum for teaching dietetics to nurses in the 
training school. 

The social service section will give reports 
of studies of dietary customs of various 
nationahties, and will discuss the importance 
of special consideration of diet in any Ameri- 



canization plan. The Cooperation of Social 
Service Dietitians in the Public Health 
Movement is the Round Table subject. 

On the program of the dieto-therapy sec- 
tion there are a number of nutrition experts 
and the round table discussions are to include 
educational propaganda in tuberculosis san- 
itariums. State Board examination questions 
in dietetics, and a survey of activities in dieto- 
therapy. 

This is an excellent opportunity for dieti- 
tians to get together, to know each other. 
The Chicago Association plans a tea for 
Monday afternoon, and the Monday even- 
ing meeting will be a dinner meeting. Nu- 
merous professional trips have been arranged 
for Thurdsay morning following the con- 
vention. 

Let every dietitian plan to make this trip 
to the convention a part of her vacation. 
For dietitians in all fields the meeting will be 
filled with interesting information, stimu- 
lating associations, inspiration for a new year, 
and a deeper understanding of true profes- 
sional spirit. 

National Advisory Committee on 
Foods and Nutrition. Those who appre- 
ciate the importance of attacking the malnu- 
trition problem in a concerted way will be 
interested in a meeting of the National 
Child Health Council's Advisory Committee 
on Foods and Nutrition, which was held in 
New York, June 4. The committee was 
formed in order that the Council might 
secure a concensus of authorative opinion 
regarding policies, methods, and standards 
which are essential to the effective conduct 
of nutrition work. 

The committee consists of twenty-seven 
members, of whom twelve are represen- 
tatives of national organizations interested 
in nutrition, such as the American Home 
Economics Association, the Department of 
Agriculture, the American Red Cross. The 

381 



382 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



remaining members of the Committee are 
individuals selected on account of the fact 
that they have outstanding ability in this 
particular field. Seventeen members of the 
committee were present at the meeting, and 
the progress made was most gratifying. Dr. 
Joseph Goldberger of the U. S. Public. 
Health Service was elected chairman of the 
entire committee, and four sub-committees 
were organized as follows : 

Organization and Conduct of !>.utrition 
Work: Lucy Gillett, chainL?n; Mary G. 
McCormick, Dr. Mary Swartz Rose, Anne 
Sutherland, Mrs. Ira Couch Wood, Grace 
Schermerhom, Dr. Royal S. Haynes, Dr. 
Amy Daniels, Dr. Anna E. Rude, Mrs. 
Henrietta W. Calvin. 

Training for Nutrition Workers: Dr. Mary 
Swartz Rose, chairman; Dr. William P. R. 
Emerson, Lucj' Gillette, Dr. Lafayette B. 
Mendel, Dr. Agnes Fay Morgan, Dr. Samuel 
McC. Hamill, Dr. Ruth Wheeler, Margaret 
Saw>'er. 

Food Requirements: Dr. John R. 
Murlin, chairman; Dr. C. F. Langworthy, 
Dr. Graham Lusk, Dr. Henry Sherman, 
Dr. Lafayette B. jMendel, Dr. Joseph 
Goldberger, Lydia Roberts, Dr. E. V. 
McCollum, Dr. Alonzo E. Taylor, Dr. 
Fritz Talbot, Dr. H. R. M. Landis, Edna 
White. 

Malnutrition: Dr. William P. R. Emerson, 
chairman; Lydia Roberts, Dr. Lafayette B. 
Mendel, Dr. John R. Murlin, Dr. Joseph 
Goldberger, Dr. Anna E. Rude. 

Running a Near East Relief Orphan- 
age. For three years Mr. Edward Perry 
has managed the orphanage at Igdir, 
Armenia, near Erivan, the capitol of the 
country. He built his future citizens on 
bundles of skin and bones, and had only 
seventeen cents per child per day as tools 
with which to do the building. 

That seventeen cents was spent on 
vegetables, meats, milk, and cereals. The 
vegetables were made into a thick soup 
with a pinch of meat; the milk was canned 
milk from the United States;' the cereals 
were made of grains which had been pre- 
pared for consumption by the most primi- 
tive methods. 



"There was so little to eat," he relates, 
"that I thought the children would go 
hungry, and get thinner, if such a thing 
were possible. But I found, to my surprise, 
that they steadily put on weight, developed 
muscle, slept well, played and worked with 
xagor, and were on the road to becoming a 
crowd of as healthy, hearty youngsters as 
one may find anywhere. The reason for 
this development is expressed in two words 
— regularity and frugality." 



The Annual Conference of the Associ- 
ation of Teachers of Domestic Subjects 
in England was held in the Bishopsgate Insti- 
tute May 21, with Ladj' Askwith in the chair. 
Among the subjects discussed were: Course 
for Teachers of Domestic Subjects, by E. 
Gladys Clarke, Principal National Training 
School of Cookery, and New Methods of Ap- 
proach to Domestic Subjects for the Day 
Continuation Schools by Mrs. Ridgeway, 
Principal of Hammersmith Girls' Continu- 
ation School. 



London Continuation Schools. Day 

continuation schools which were opened 
in London in January enrolled 12,000 
pupils, or 82 per cent of the first age group 
ofi&ciaUy registered for such instruction. 
At the Whitechapel Day Continuation 
School 99 per cent of those registered were 
in attendance. This large initial enroll- 
ment is due to the active cooperation of 
the head teachers of the elementary schools 
and of the school principals who surveyed 
the industrial conditions and social activities 
of their districts. 



French School For Hotel Workers. 
A three-year course in hotel work is being 
conducted at Grenoble, France, under the 
supervision of the Ministry of Public Instruc- 
tion. The school is maintained by the 
French Government, and is open to men 
and women. The teaching staff consists 
of five graduate professors, five auxiliary 
masters versed in hotel work (including 
the management of a kitchen), and three 
instructors in foreign languages. 



1921] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



383 



The senior home economics students at the 
Kansas State Agricultural College 
have recently had four weeks strenuous 
training in the preparation of meals. 

For three weeks, dinner was served at the 
college to faculty members and their wives, 
at thirty-five cents a plate. The girls did 
all the planning and work in connection with 
the meals. The style of dinner and service 
was changed three times each week. Mon- 
day and Tuesday the English style of dinner 
(informal service with a waitress) was served; 
on Wednesday and Thursday the dinners 
were formal; on Friday and Saturday they 
were informal or family dinners, without a 
waitress. On the last two days one of the 
students acted as hostess, waited on the table, 
and did the serving much the same as it is 
done in the average home. The last week 
of the four was devoted to the planning and 
serving of formal and informal buffet 
luncheons. 

At a meeting of the Council of the 
Montana Home Economics Association, 
held in Bozeman, May 30, the following 
topics were considered in round table 
discussions: 

Plans for the regular yearly meeting next 
fall; state dietetic requirements for nurses; 
the high school dormitory problem; reasons 
why home economics work is considered one 
of the things which could be dispensed with 
temporarily under the present financial 
stringency; the promotion of branch and 
student associations; discussion of the Fess 
and Smoot bills and means for publicity; 
methods by which the State Home Economics 
Association can incorporate with the women's 
clubs of the state. 

A Home Economics Club of fifty mem- 
bers has been organized at Stephens Junior 
College, Columbia, Mo. The purpose of 
the club is to acquaint the girls with the 
scope of Home Economics and the oppor- 
tunities it offers. The club made a con- 
tribution to the Ellen H. Richards Memorial 
Fund as one of its first official acts. 



"The Female of the Species." Recent 
information from the Bureau of Education 
concerning the salaries of home economics 
supervisors in 31 cities of over 100,000 popu- 
lation gives the following figures: The mini- 
mum salary of home economics supervisors 
is $1500. About one-fourth of all super- 
visors receive between $1500 and $2000 
per year; one-half receive salaries between 
$2000 and $2500; and one-fourth between 
$2500 and $5000. There is but one super- 
visor in the United States receiving $5000. 
The salaries of supervisors of manual train- 
ing vary from $1900 to $5000, with one- 
half of the men supervisors receiving between 
$2500 and $3750. 

Daughters of the American Revolu- 
tion at the annual session of the organization 
in Washington adopted resolutions declaring 
that the clearest vision of the nation recog- 
nizes the urgent need of honest work, 
systematic saving, and sane spending, and 
pledged the members to advance in every 
way the purchase of government savings 
securities as the surest means for the de- 
velopment of understanding of the value of 
money. The Daughters pledged themselves 
not only to make an individual practice of 
investment in government savings securities 
but to aid in the establishment of thrift 
banks and the introduction of thrift instruc- 
tion in the curricula of all schools. 

The New Fifth Avenue Hospital will 
be the first institution in this country to 
abolish the ward system. All its rooms 
will be private and single, and, because of 
the peculiar X-shaped construction of the 
building, every room will be open to light 
and air. One floor wiU be devoted to 
children's cases and will have two play 
roofs; all maternity cases will be segregated 
on another floor. 

The institution is planned to meet the 
great and pressing need for a hospital for 
the "inbetween" class of people — neither 
the very rich nor the very poor. An 
employee will be able to receive exactly 
the same care and treatment as would be 
given to his employer, and the charges will 
be in proportion to their incomes. 



384 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



The Mary Gay Theater and the char- 
acters of Judge Scales, the Dragon, and 
others have been originated by Stella Boothe, 
R.N., of the Mar>' Gay Studio, New York 
City, in order to get health facts ov^r to 
children, especially to those in rural schools. 
Miss Boothe has two theaters, a small one 
which can be packed in a suitcase and 
demonstrated by tfeachers, nurses, and public 
health workers; and a larger port^'ble one 
which she herself uses, gi\ing demonstrations 
and telling her health stories to children. 
The characters, made of shellacked card- 
board, are very realistic in design. Three 
of the six plays ready for presentation are 
Bed Time Adventure, Health Habits, Good 
and Bad citizens in the Land of Food. 
These demonstrations are under the auspices 
of the Child Health Organization of America. 

The Farm and Home Bureaus of Broome 
County, New York, recently celebrated the 
tenth anniversary of the founding of the first 
County Farm Bureau in that state. 

No small part of the program was the re- 
view of the work of the Home Bureau formed 
in connection with the Farm Bureau in 1914. 
The home economics extension work in New 
York State is carried on through the Home 
Bureaus, and there are now twenty-nine 
organized counties and others preparing for 
organization. 

Cooperating with the County Farm and 
Home Bureau Association are the United 
States Department of Agriculture, New York 
State College of Agriculture, and the State 
Department of Farms and Markets. 

Dr. Ruth Wheeler, has been appointed 
Professor of Nutrition in the College of 
Medicine of the State University of Iowa. 
Dr. Wheeler is a graduate of Vassar College 
and received her Degree of Doctor of Phil- 



osophy in Nutrition from Yale. For the past 
three years she has been Head of the Depart- 
ment of Home Economics at Goucher College,^ 
Baltimore. Previous to this she was Asso- 
ciate Professor in the University of Illinois. 
One of her most discussed pieces of research 
was in connection with a study of a number 
of proprietary foods for infants. 

The College of Medicine of the State 
University of Iowa has the distinction of 
having appointed the first woman, if not the 
first person, to a chair of nutrition in a 
medical college, and this new departure will 
be watched with interest. The relation of 
food to health has had long and varied 
attention from faddists, but, thanks to 
scientific research, this relationship is now so 
well estabhshed that the medical profession 
is recognizing the need for incorporating in 
their courses of training the very best that 
can be known upon the subject. 

Dr. Wheeler will have entire control of 
the food department of the University 
hospitals, and will have charge of the 
courses in nutrition to be offered for the 
medical students, dietitians, and nurses. 
She vnU. also conduct research. 

During the entire period of the war, Dr. 
Wheeler served upon the National Com- 
mittee on Nutrition Service which was 
responsible for the enrolling and assigning 
of dietitians for work in Army and Navy 
hospitals, both at home and overseas. For 
the past two years she has been Chairman 
of the Committee and has been active in all 
matters relating to plans for developing the 
nutrition activities of the Red Cross peace- 
time program. 

Mary A. Lindsley is now manager of the 
Grace Dodge Hotel, in Washington, a com- 
mercial hotel for transient and resident 
women guests. 



Vol. XIII, No. 9 September, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mary de Garmo I5rvan, FJilor Ketdrah E. Baldwin, Business Edilot 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary II. Abf.l C. F. Langworthy Amy Daniels Roth Wheeler Katharine Fisdeii 

Associate Editors 
Day Monroe and the E.xecutive Secretary, Wus 
F-DITH Harber and Mrs. Hazard, .Social Welfare 
Florence Ward, Extension 
Katherine Ulunt, Foods 
Cora Winchell, Education 
KuTit O'Hrien, Textiles 
LuciLE Fkench, Institution Economics 
Alice Bie.ster, Bibliography 

Collaborators — The Ofl'icers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Thk President's Address ... * Mary E. Sweeny 385 

Tiu: Effect of Processes on the Vitamine Content of Food .... Johi R. Miirlin 389 

The Present Dye Situation Frederick Breilliul 395 

Pi,ANS FOR Textiu; Research Miriam Birdseye 400 

Opportunities in Institutional Administration Mary A . Lindsley 402 

Home Service Departments In Banks Leo Day Woodi.vorlh 405 

Home Demonstration Work O. B. Martin 408 

Recruiting Extension Workers ... John D. Willard 412 

Extension Section 415 

Committee on Teaching 424 

Textile Section 430 

SocLAL Service Committee 43g 

Committee on Thrift , 439 

Science Section 442 

Institution Economics Section 449 

Council Meetings 454 

Business Meeting 465 

Constitution of the A. H. E. A 477 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics .Association 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registereo letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal of Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store. Boston: 
A C. McClurg & Co., Chicago; Hochschiid, Kohn & Co., Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 




In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIII SEPTEMBER, 1921 No. 9 

PROCEEDINGS OF THE FOURTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF 

THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

Swampscott, Mass., June 27-30, 1921 

THE PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS 

MARY E. SWEENY 

Nothing could be more fitting than to open the Fourteenth Annual 
Meeting of the American Home Economics Association here in Swamp- 
scott, so near to the place where Ellen H. Richards spent her life, and, 
in the shadow of her great spirit, to recount some of the opportunities for 
service which have come to the Association in the past year. The year 
has shown that the opportunities which the war gave to home economics 
are still ours; that we are facing a more critical time than we faced 
during the war, for we stand at the turn in the road, so to speak, where we 
must either assume leadership in the movements concerned with the 
health of the nation or lose it altogether. 

The opportunity which the call to the nutritional field has given to 
home economics is most compelling. This field of service is our respon- 
sibility and our job, and it is for us to help point the way to social and 
professional agencies. We must establish a larger number of vital 
contact points with both the medical profession and the social service 
world. We must win their confidence and, through our hearty cooper- 
ation, demonstrate the place which we should fill in the development of 
the health program. The home economics profession should be repre- 
sented at every state medical association, at every public health confer- 
ence, at every meeting concerning child welfare, and should be a part of 
every social service group. If we are to render the fullest service in the 
nutritional field, we need both the medical and the social points of view. 

385 



386 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Nothing has given the women who compose the home economics pro- 
fession o{ this country so great satisfaction as the appointment of Dr. 
Ruth Wheeler to a chair of nutrition in the Medical College of the 
University of Iowa. She has won the first trench in this recognition, 
by the medical profession, of the contribution which home economics 
can make to medical training ; we must not leave her alone to hold the 
lines. We must see that other women are trained as this field develops 
and so trained that there . an be no question about their abiHty to fill 
such professorships. 

Those of us who are studying national movements find three in which 
home economics has a definite contribution to make. They are in 
child health, child care, and child feeding; in the functioning of education 
in the problems of life ; and in the forces which are threatening the integ- 
rity of the American home. Trained investigators are trying to think 
through to a solution of these problems. A world-wide interest in the 
child brings at once to the fore-ground all the basic problems of the home, 
and, if ever in its history home economics is to be challenged, it will be 
within the next few years. 

When will nutrition be as well-estabHshed a part of general education 
as arithmetic and algebra? When will a fundamental knowledge of 
textiles be as integral a part of one's knowledge as geography? That 
hour cannot come until we so vitalize and energize our subjects that they 
cannot be omitted. When, as a group, we get a vision of the pivotal 
points on which home economics is based; when we apply to all our 
methods the acid test of reality, we shall not have to persuade school 
authorities to introduce a course in home economics, but will find that 
the door swings wide for our entrance. 

I am glad to report to you that as an Association we have been estab- 
lishing contacts with other groups of professional workers. We have 
affiliated with the General Federation of Women's Clubs, The League 
of Women Voters, The Social Workers Exchange, the Y. W. C. A., 
the Y. M. C. A., the National Housing Association, The American 
Social Hygiene Association, The American Academy of Political and 
Social Science, the American Dietetic Association, the National Child 
Health Council. 

A forward movement of the Association is indicted in the backing 
which has been given to the home economics amendment to the Smith- 
Hughes Law. The assistance which has been rendered by the joint 
legislative committee in Washington has been invaluable. This means 
not only legislative support, but that every women's organization has 



1921] THE president's address 387 

swung its power behind the amendment and, in so doing, has become 
interested in the work of our Association in the interpretation which 
home economics gives to life, to home making, and to child care. The 
state supervision of vocational home economics, extended as it is to 
every state, has been a potent factor in securing better standards of work 
and in educating school authorities to better ideals, both of work and 
equipment. 

The developing of all lines of extension work has meant that by a 
thousand county home demonstration agents home economics is being 
sold daily to the individual woman and made to function in problems 
of her individual home. While there is little opportunity to view the 
cumulative efifort of these agencies, so powerful are they that in due 
season there can be none to doubt their effectiveness. 

The recognition by the commercial and industrial world of the contri- 
bution which the woman trained in home economics can make to stand- 
ards, to morale, and to improvement of service is something of which the 
Association can justly be proud. The fact that great commercial con- 
cerns are placing the testing and development of household equipment 
in the hands of the home economics women marks a new era in the recog- 
nition of the training which our Association represents. 

As an Association in this period of social industrial and economic 
reconstruction we need to be reborn into a real democracy of ideals, of 
standards, of outlook, and of occupations. It seemed inevitable that, 
in the developing of home economics as a profession, a large part of its 
activities should remain in the class room. Today we are recognizing 
that home economics is not only in the class room, but in business, in 
the press, in the hotel, in the hospital, in social service, and in the home. 
Home economics is not purely a matter of education but equally a matter 
of home and personal appUcation. In this hour of our opportunities 
there are three near objectives. First, to become an integral part of 
the general educational system, i.e., as a professional group to develop 
the kind of work in the class room which functions in any American home; 
to make the school lunch a part of education as well as a convenience; 
to keep step with the general progress which is being made in all lines 
of elementary, secondary, and college education. Second, to broaden 
the home economics field so as to give prestige, equal to that of the 
teacher, to home economics women in business, in hospitals, in extension 
service, in hotels, in industry, in \'isiting housekeeping, and in the Ameri- 
can home. The third objective is to develop a professional sentiment 
among the members of the Association, to give them the same pride in 



388 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

being a member of their Association as the physician feels in being a mem- 
ber of the American Medical Association, or the engineer in being a mem- 
ber of the Engineering Association. There are two ways of doing this; 
one is to make the voice of the Journal the voice of the Association. 
How many of us dare ask ourselves what we have done in the last year to 
make our Journal a success? Until we have done all in our power to 
make it represent the things in which we, personally, believe, we have no 
right to criticise it. The second way of gaining professional sentiment is 
through regional orgarization. When each state has its representative 
on the Council and each region has its representative in an executive 
group of the Association, when every state member is a member of the 
national Association, we shall have the right to be boastfully proud. Not 
only will regional organization give better professional sentiment, but, 
I believe, it will give interest and power to the state organizations. 

It is apparent that, in the training of young women in home economics, 
we have failed to acquaint them in college with an appreciation of their 
professional association. If it takes four years to train a woman in 
home economics, it should also take four years to train her for effective 
membership in the American Home Economics Association. There 
are at this time about ten thousand women, trained in home economics, 
who are engaged in some line of its practice in America; twelve hundred, 
or one in eight, are members of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion. Our objective is to win the other seven for the organization in 
which we believe, the organization which represents the standards of our 
professional life, the organization of which we are a part and which is 
a part of us. 

It is my privilege to make to you this report of progress and promise 
and to open formally the Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association. 



Editor^ s Note. All general session addresses, in our hands as we go to 
print, are given in full. Limitation of space makes it necessary to print 
papers presented at section meetings in abstract form, in this number. 
These abstracts are, in the main, those submitted to the Pen and Press 
Conmiittee during the meeting. A number of these section papers 
will appear in full, in later issues of the Journal. 



1921] VTTAMINE CONTENT OF FOOD 389 

GENERAL SESSION 
June 28 

C. F. Langworthy, presiding 

THE NEED OF FURTHER INVESTIGATION OF THE EFFECT 
OF COMMERCIAL AND HOUSEHOLD PROCESSES ON THE 
THE VITAMINE CONTENT OF FOODS 

JOHN R. MURLIN 
Chairman Committee on Food and Nutrition, National Research Council 

The significant term in the subject of this paper, "vitamine, " repre- 
sents the third or perhaps the fourth great concept in nutrition which has 
been achieved by physiologists with the help at times of pure chemists 
and physicians and other practical folk like yourselves. The first was the 
energy concept. Yes, the first historically; for Lavoisier, you remember, 
discovered 135 years ago the identity of combustion in the animal body 
with combustion in the inanimate world. This very promising vein of 
discovery was almost lost sight of when Lavoisier was beheaded in the 
French Revolution after pleading in vain for two weeks respite in which 
to complete a piece of scientific work. Who knows but, if those two 
weeks had been granted, Lavoisier might have realized his ambition to 
prove the agreement between heat measurements as calculated and as 
directly measured in the human subject. It is almost certain that he 
would have accomplished this great aim if he had lived ten years more ; 
for he had already secured approximate agreement with the guinea pig, 
and the work for man was all planned out in his mind. As it was, that 
achievement goes to the credit of Rubner and of Atwater quite 100 years 
later. The recent discoveries of Armsby and Lusk and Benedict in this 
country are worthy successors to the achievements of Lavoisier. 

The second great concept was that which began with Liebig who gave 
us our first rational classification of the foodstuffs. It was continued and 
ampUfied by Voit and Emil Fisher, who gave us the true significance of 
protein in nutrition, and has been fittingly rounded out by Folin and 
others, who have taught us the meaning of the various nitrogen fractions, 
first, as the end products of metabolism, and now as constituents of our 
life blood. 

The third concept, that of the place in nutrition of the inorganic ele- 
ments is more difficult to accredit properly. There is no single investi- 
gator who occupies the place corresponding to that of Lavoisier in 



390 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

energy metabolism, or to E. Fisher in knowledge of the proteins. But 
we have no difficulty in recognizing the modern masters of this subject, 
men like Sherman, Forbes, and McCoUum, to speak of Americans, or 
Hopkins and Cathcart in England. Here also we must admit to the 
noble company several physical chemists, like Bayliss in England and 
Lawrence Henderson in this country, who have helped us to grasp the 
real meaning of acid-base balance and the mechanism by which the H-ion 
concentration is regulated in our tissues very nearly to the point of 
neutrality. 

The fourth concept, that of the vitamines, is less than a quarter century 
old. Begiiming with Eijkmann in 1897, it has been at once the most 
engaging, and perhaps withal the most practical, from the standpoint of 
health, of any of these concepts. The story is too new to require repeti- 
tion. Many of you are more conversant with the development of this 
subject than is your prekent speaker. Several of your members are 
active workers in the field and have notable observations and discoveries 
to their credit. 

It would be interesting, had I the time, to dwell upon the intensely 
dramatic, I might almost say the romantic element in some of the great 
advances in the science of nutrition. Imagine the dramatic significance — 
it could not have escaped his apprehension — when Lavoisier realized that 
he had proved the identity of combustion in his own body with combus- 
tion in the candle flame! Voit you remember speaks proudly of the 
f eeUngs of awe and exultation when the respiration machine which Petten- 
kofer and he had invented began to work and they saw the physiological 
processes of their own bodies unveiled before their eyes. Not less dramatic 
are some of the incidents connected with the discovery of vitamines. 
Fimk has been criticized for choosing a high-sounding name for the 
substance which he had isolated from rice polishings, and from yeast. 
Nevertheless, the name has come to stay, and I venture to predict that 
after we have learned the exact chemical nature of fat-soluble A and 
water-soluble B and C or, as Drummond proposes we should call them, 
\atamin ^ , vitamin B, etc., we shall continue to call them, as old friends, 
by the good "old" name of vitamines. 

Now as members of an honorable order of nutritionists some of us have 
grown a httle anxious about certain knowledge which has come to us, and 
we are not quite certain what we ought to do about it. Some bolder 
spirits have raised a note of genuine alarm, and some feel that we ought 
to gird ourselves as true knights of St. George and go forth to slay the 
monster of greed and stupidity, so plainly visible to all of us, in the 



1921] VITAMINE CONTENT OF FOOD 391 

character of the unscrupulous food manufacturer, who, in the process 
of making food attractively white, or attractively handy, or attractively 
this, that and the other to increase his sales, has stupidly or avariciously 
robbed it of real nutritional value. 

Let us examine the situation dispassionately for a moment and see 
whether there is cause for real alarm. Is our food actually injured by 
domestic and commercial processes of cooking, sterilizing, pickling, or 
curing? Some of the evidence is familiar to you. Fat-soluble A, the 
vitamine necessary to proper growth in our children, is mainly if not 
totally destroyed by heating to 120°C. with stirring or aeration, in four 
hours. This means you cannot treat milk or butter in this way and have 
any of the A vitamine left. But is milk so treated commercially or in 
domestic cooking? Very rarely if at all. There is as yet no perfect 
agreement among experimenters regarding the ordinary processes of 
cooking, evaporating, or drying milk, but I believe if you have followed 
the subject you will agree with me that the weight of evidence is that 
only the antiscurvy vitamine, if any, is injured, and Hess has reported 
actual cures of scurvy with dry milk. 

McCoUimi and Davis, you remember, thought they had proved injury 
to the nutritive value of casein by heating, but Hogan took sharp issue 
with this view and he has been supported by the more recent work of 
Gibson and Concepcion, and by Daniels and Loughlin. Long heating 
does injure by precipitation of Ca2(P04) 3 but apparently not by destruction 
of vitamine B any more than of vitamine A . 

And now comes a curious fact. Anything which bleaches, which de- 
stroys the yellow pigment, according to the researches of Steenbock and 
Boutwell, and of Dnmimond, does injure the fat-soluble vitamine. How 
remarkably this confirms our instinctive distrust of food which has lost 
its good color! Is not this the clue to judge of the injury to the leafy 
vegetable and tubers which contain fat-soluble A? It always has been 
the method of judging food, and needs merely to be supplemented 
by barring the artificial coloring of manufactured products to cover up 
the loss of natural color through commercial processing. 

As for the injury to water-soluble B in other foods than milk there is 
now definite evidence that pressure-cooking, and even ordinary boiling 
if too long continued, does injure the vitamine. Chick and Hume, Delf , 
Miller and Whipple, all women be it noted, have shown that cooking ex- 
tracts the B vitamine, and from. 40 to 70 per cent of it is found in the water 
with which the food is cooked. Here again our ordinary senses, long- 
trained, serve to protect us. How readily we recognize the over-cooked 



392 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

taste — "cooked to death," as we call it, and that is a very significant 
phrase. I venture to predict that pressure-cooking will not be generally- 
adopted even under the lure of greater economy any more than the fire- 
less cooker has been; for the food has very often that over-cooked taste 
which we have learned to distrust. Whether in all cases loss of yellow 
pigment means destruction of the A vitamine, or loss of flavor means loss 
of B, will require further investigation. 

Coming now to water-soluble C, we have learned through the researches 
mainly of Enghsh and Amcican investigators that it is injured by heat- 
ing, aging, drying, and by alkalinization. Nevertheless there are excep- 
tions; for, as I have noted, drying of milk which violates all but one of 
these rules may not destroy it entirely. You are all familiar with the work 
of Givens in the Yale and Rochester laboratories. This work, not all of 
it yet published, shows clearly that practically all of our common vege- 
tables and fruits suffer loss of vitamine C by drying. The exceptions are 
tomatoes and oranges, the very fruits which are richest in this nutrient 
factor. Hess has shown that ordinary canned tomato or the juice is 
quite as efficac-ous as orange juice for the cure or prevention of scurvy, 
and Givens has demonstrated that the vitamine is fully potent in tomatoes 
which have been canned for two years. Ordinary cooking injures the 
vitamine to a degree. Cooking cabbage, for example, for 1 hour reduces 
its antiscorbutic value anywhere from 70 to 100 per cent, depending 
directly upon the temperature; boihng potatoes robs them of vitamine 
C to an amount depending directly upon the time; and so on. 

Probably every war which the world has known, if it continued for as 
much as one year, has been accompanied by scurvy in the army and often 
in the civihan population. Certainly this is true of all modern wars. 
In our own history it was particularly true of the war of 1812 and the 
Civil War. The Spanish American war did not last long enough to pro- 
duce scurvy and, only less fortunately, the army had recently adopted 
canned tomatoes as a component of the travel ration. In the World 
War there was scurvy and plenty of it in the Indian forces operating in 
Mesopotamia, the Italian, and even in the French Army; but not a 
single case, so far as I have heard, in the U. S. Army. Canned tomatoes 
were a regular component of the garrison and field rations. 

The war brought us face to face with many nutritional problems. In 
the army we were made to realize the hazard of supplying the army in 
France large quantities of dried and canned foods. This, in fact, led to the 
inauguration of Givens ' work for the Government on dried vegetables. 
We ought to have a systematic and continuing study of the same kind. 



1921] VITAMINE CONTENT OF FOOD 393 

on all commercially prepared foods, with a view to pointing out those 
methods which do injury to the vitamines or other nutrient factors. For 
it is evident to you that if ordinary cooking injures or removes vitamines 
B and C from fruits and vegetables, and anything which bleaches de- 
prives the same or other foods of vitamine A , there is clearly a potential 
menace in the consumption, especially by poor people who must "live 
out of cans and sacks, " of large quantities of package foods. 

You have probably heard of a new process for making bread by washing 
the whole grain of the wheat until all dirt is removed, and soaking until 
the bran is loosened and separated, then grinding directly, adding fat, 
salt, sugar and yeast and mixing into a sponge. What an economical 
and nutritional advance this would be, to cut out the whole process of 
milling, with its decortication, degermination, and devitaminization of 
our most important cereal. It is my understanding that the new proc- 
ess is now being tried out by a large baking firm in Montreal. I would 
recommend that, as teachers of home economics, you watch for the results 
of this experiment and be ready to encourage the general adoption of the 
new method, should it prove to be, practically, all that it promises to be, 
theoretically. 

You often hear the excuse that ''it does not matter much if a vitamine 
is diminished somewhat in a particular food-product, for example white 
flour; for if you eat enough green stuffs and drink plenty of milk, the 
white bread will not hurt you. " But suppose all our food manufacturers 
made the same plea. "My food will not poison you if you eat plenty of 
fresh vegetables. " That is the excuse already offered for polished rice, 
highly-milled corn meal, canned meats, and I do not know how many 
more. Have we not a right to secure our foods with all of the nutrient 
values preserved in them, if possible? Of course, a certain amount of 
heat is necessary to sterilize, and, the more heat employed, the more surely 
a food will "keep," i.e., remain free of bacteriological spoilage. But Rossi 
and others claim that sterilizing in hermetically sealed containers does not 
injure the vitamine content of foods so much as heating in open containers. 
It is obvious that much more investigation is necessary, the object of which 
would be, not so much to prosecute the unscrupulous manufacturer (for his 
number I believe is not very great), as to indicate where injury is being 
done, and to create the desire for improvement. In this investigation we 
must not infer too much from a mere trace of injurious effect; for almost 
anything done to food from the time it is plucked or harvested or 
slaughtered reduces its nutrient value to some degree. To find our foods 
in the city not so fresh and appetizing (and we know this means not so 



394 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

"vitaminous") is the price we must always pay, perhaps, for preferring 
city life. A reduction of a few per cent in the capacity of a food to pro- 
tect a guinea-pig from scurvy, or to promote the growth of a white rat, 
should not be accepted as proof that we are all about to die of deficiency 
diseases. Let us leave that sort of exaggeration to the column-fillers 
and syndicate writers. But there should be (and I believe the great 
majority of food manufacturers would welcome it) a thorough-going 
search for significant injury to the nutrient values of our foods. 

After such an investigation, perhaps it would be timely to ask Con- 
gress for an amendment to the Pure Food Law to the effect that any food 
process, seeking the protection of our patent or copyright laws, should 
be obliged to establish its innocence as regards injury to the vitamines. 
This is the age of prevention in medicine. We cannot afford to let a 
whole section of our population become the victims of undernutrition 
or malnutrition, either through their own ignorance, or through the 
cupidity of food manufacturers, as happened in the case of pellagra. We 
need continuing effort along educational lines, and we need much more 
information in certain directions which I have tried to indicate. 

I wish to close by directing your attention to the program of research 
on national nutrition prepared by the Committee on Food and Nutri- 
tion of the National Research Council. I am authorized by the Council 
to solicit your endorsement of these projects ; for we need the moral and 
intellectual support of such organizations as yours, as well as the financial 
support which I feel we are going to secure as soon as business conditions 
have become stabilized. 

On the subject of vitamines, and the need for further research regarding 
the efifect of commercial and household processes on their integrity, the 
Committee has this to say of its project: 

"The purpose of this investigation is to make a systematic survey of 
the occurrence of vitamines, with a quantitative valuation, if possible, 
in aU of our natural food products, and to learn the effects on the qualities 
of foods with respect to these factors of canning, preserving, pickling, 
drying, aging, and other treatment to which foods are subjected in 
household or commercial use. 

"The sale of special foods, advertised rich in vitamines, is becoming 
an extensive and profitable business, and these should be tested on the 
start to determine their real and relative value." 

The subject of nutrition is just beginning to receive the recognition it 
deserves in relation to the prevention of disease. As our pamphlet on 
national nutrition points out, "Members of the International Health 



1921] THE PRESENT DYE SITUATION 395 

Board agree that the prevention of tuberculosis is in a great measure a 
dietary problem," and that "a very large number — probably more than 
50 per cent of all the children in the United States — suffer from rickets 
at some time during infancy or early childhood as a result of improper 
feeding." Are the foods available always wholesome? Should we not 
have as the cheapest and commonest of our foods, the food which every- 
body eats, namely bread, the most wholesome article of all? Our 
children are entitled to health. They cannot have it unless we look after 
their foods. 

THE PRESENT DYE SITUATION^ 

FREDERICK E. BREITHUT 
Chief Chemist, The Calco Chemical Company 

The synthetic coal- tar chemical industry was born in England, reared 
in Germany, and will attain its full maturity in these United States of 
ours — if we are intelligent. But "if we are intelligent" is a large IF. 
For the present situation is a critical one and has all the usual elements 
of the drama, — there are plots and counterplots, connivings, economic 
necessities, technical difficulties, international complications and the 
surging motifs of patriotism, hatred, and passion. 

The story of the treasures hidden in a lump of coal has often been 
told. We all know that coke, gas, ammonia, and coal-tar are the primary 
products of coal distillation. The fascinating potentialities of the black 
sricky mess called coal-tar are also generally known. From this source, 
the chemist has wrested the most delicate perfumes, the most exquisite 
flavors, all the colors of the rainbow, explosives, poison gases, tanning 
materials, resinous compounds like bakelite, solvents, rubber accelerators, 
photographic developers, paints, roofing materials, road binders, dis- 
infectants, motor spirits, and drugs to soothe and heal the sick. 

The United States has the largest coal deposits in the world. Nature 's 
lavish liberality in providing us with this basic raw material led us to 
squander it with the ruthless recklessness of a spendthrift. Before the 
World War, the greater part of our coke was made in the wasteful bee- 
hive ovens. In the quarter century preceding the World War, we threw 
away in tar and gas, reduced to coal equivalent, an amount equal to over 
300,000,000 tons of coal, over $400,000,000 worth of ammonia, and over 
$500,000,000 worth of benzol products. 

The demands of war electrified us into sane action, with the result 
that 60 per cent of the coke produced in the United States in 1920 was 

' Condensed form of the address given. 



396 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

made in by-product ovens, thereby conserving, for the use of the indus- 
tries just enumerated, ample quantities of the raw materials needed for 
the making of dyes, drugs, flavors, perfumes, and the other kindred final 
products of the coal-tar chemical industry. Let us hope that the day is 
not far distant when the bee-hive oven will be an historical curiosity 
along with the stage-coach and the spinning wheel. 

Notwithstanding our great natural wealth in coal, the United States 
was slow to develop a coal-tar chemical industry. It is needless to 
dwell on the reasons for his. Aside from our own lack of interest, 
certainly the largest single factor was the German determination to 
dominate this field of industrial activity at any cost. 

Then came the World War. And with it came the staggering realiza- 
tion that we Americans, with all our natural resources and industrial 
wealth, were impotent to prosecute war because, above all things, we 
lacked a coal-tar chemical industry. The German dye plants were 
indeed "potential arsenals" which they rapidly energized into explosive 
factories and poison gas plants. But we Americans had neither plants 
nor tools, equipment nor experienced men. For a brief time, we groped 
in helplessness to build up in months what should have taken decades 
of daily thinking and effort. 

How this chaotic situation was met is such recent history and the re- 
cord is so plain that it is needless to repeat it. American chemists and 
engineers plunged into the solution of the problem with such energy 
and ability that eighteen months of concentrated effort found us ready 
to face the foe. Just as we reached a point at which we could hurl back 
at the Hun the terribly effective means of offense which he had thrown at 
us, the war ended. 

We had lost much. But we had gained one thing of inestimable value. 
We had here in our own United States the beginning of a dye industry. 

The United States Tariff Commission recently issued its Census of 
the Coal Tar Chemical Industry for 1919. In 1919, there were in the 
United States 214 manufacturers of dyes and kindred coal-tar chemicals. 
The total output of dyes was approximately sixty three and a half million 
pounds, valued at about sixty seven and a half million dollars. The 
production in 1919 exceeded, by 38 per cent in quantity, the imports 
during the fiscal year before the war— 1914. An outstanding achieve- 
ment of the year was the production of 14^ miUion pounds of a single 
color — sulphur black. Another notable achievement was the produc- 
tion, during 1919, of synthetic indigo in amounts exceeding our pre-war 
import. This dye, which ranks second in consumption in the United 



1921] THE PRESENT DYE SITUATION 397 

States, ranks first in world consumption on account of its large use in 
China. 

Classifying dyes according to the method of application on the fiber, 
we find that, in 1919, the United States produced more direct dyes, acid 
dyes, sulphur dyes, mordant dyes, basic dyes, color lake, and spirit 
soluble dyes than the imports of 1914. The only class of dyes in which 
we are still backward are the so-called vat dyes. In 1919 the quantity 
of vat dyes, with the exception of indigo, which is the most important, 
was still inadequate for domestic needs, the production being about one- 
fifth of the pre-war requirements. However, fundamental develop- 
ments in this field are under way and we are assured of an increased 
output of vat colors during 1921. The manufacture of these dyes 
requires the highest technical skill, long research, and a large investment 
of capital. 

Are these American dyes really as good as the German dyes? Is it 
not true that we Americans have a belief that German coal-tar chemical 
cerebration is of an extra-special super-mannish variety? That this 
belief, is only a superstition must be apparent to any fair-minded human 
being who contemplates dispassionately the American achievements of 
the last five years. But you are thinking of all the cases of fading, 
crocking, streaking, and rubbing that have taken place in our textiles, 
of our flags that looked like dilapidated dishrags after a few days of 
exposure to the elements. We had these coloristic misfortunes at the 
beginning of the war because we tried to put wool dyes on cotton, 
cotton dyes on silk, and silk dyes on wool. No dye has ever been dis- 
covered which is fast for all purposes. Dyes are chemical individuals 
or mixtures of chemical individuals and their properties are the same 
whether they are made in Germany, France, England, Italy, Switzer- 
land, Japan, or the United States. 

In 1916, when our markets were stripped of dyestufifs, an American 
hosiery manufacturer unwittingly bought, at a fancy figure, a German- 
made black dye intended for casket cloth. Casket cloth is not usully 
subjected to sunlight, washing, acid, or rubbing. Imagine the results 
when this dye was used on stockings! This was a German-made dye, 
but its unsatisfactory behavior resulted in the conviction on the part 
of many good American women that "those American dyes are so 
unrehable. " 

A red and white table cloth was returned to Jordan, Marsh & Co., 
in Boston, because, after its first trip to the washtub, the dye bled so 
that the red lost its brilliancy and the white was stained an unpleasant 



398 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

pink. For many years the dyestuff used for this identical work has been 
Turkey Red, — a dyestuff that has been made in this country for some 
time, "of standard quality, in necessary quantities, and at a reasonable 
price. " But the dyer substituted a dye which on cotton goods is not 
fast to washing. 

A certain carpet manufacturer making a standard rug, with a bright 
blue center, refused flatly to buy American-made alizarine blue, SAP,. 
at $8 a pound, and substituted a dye which the dye salesman and the 
manufacturer knew was notoriously fugitive for the purpose intended. 
The fugitive dye cost $1.75 a pound. The difference in the cost per 
rug in the use of the fugitive in place of the fast dye was 2 1 cents. The 
selling price of this particular rug had been raised by the manufacturer 
from $50 to $125. Remember, a profiteer's excuse that American dyes 
are unreliable is not necessarily valid proof that a suitable American 
dyestuff is not available for his use. 

These few examples- could be multiplied many times but the few in- 
stances cited are sufficiently typical to be illustrative of the general condi- 
tion. In every case, the fault lay, not with the dye itself, but either 
with the use of the wrong dye for the purpose intended or some other 
factor having nothing to do with the quality of the dyestuff. No, 
German dyes are not especially endowed with supernatural powers. 
American dyes are their equal in every regard, but the right dye must 
be used for the right purpose. 

Another question which is frequently asked is : "If pending legislation 
is enacted, what is to prevent a monopoly in the American dyestuff 
industry with the public at its mercy? " In the first place we have been 
building up the American dye industry, during the last five years, under 
a system which it is proposed to continue. Has a monopoly developed? 
If you wiU glance through the report of the Tariff Commission pre- 
viously referred to, you will find that there are 214 manufacturers of 
coal-tar chemicals in the country. Orange II, one of this season's 
popular colors, is made by 14 manufacturers, some very large and some 
very small. They are all selling against one another in open competi- 
tion. Fast Red A is made by ten manufacturers. The number of 
manufacturers making other large tonnage dyes, in many cases, exceed 
those just referred to. 

Again, let us try to visualize what this dye monopoly would amount 
to, even were it conceded as a possibility for the sake of the argument. 
The value of the 63,402,194 pounds of dyes produced in 1919 was 
$67,598,855, an average of $1.07 per pound. The consumption of dye- 

^ TTie examples are taken from "Drug and Chemical Markets." 



1921] THE PRESENT DYE SITUATION 399 

stuffs in this country is approximately 60 million pounds per annum. 
The present cost — and costs, by the way, are constantly coming down — ■ 
of the dyestuff necessary to color a suit of clothes is about 50 cents, and 
the average cost of the dyestuff in a dozen pairs of socks is perhaps 2 cents. 
Each of us Americans probably spends less than $2 per year for the 
dyes in his clothes. The value of the dyestuff itself is almost negligible 
in comparison with the cost of the textiles or other materials which 
dyes are used to color. In fact, industries to the value of 3 biUion 
dollars are directly dependent on dyes. It may not be too vigorous an 
exercise of one's poetic fancy to call dyestuffs the "vitamines" of the 
textile industries. 

I think the men and women of America can be trusted not to cast 
aside the achievements of the last few years. Professor Marston 
Taylor Bogert of Columbia University has summarized what the loss 
of this industry would mean to us. In words of profound wisdom and 
prophetic vision, he says: 

Let us understand fully what the curtailment or abandonment of this indus- 
try is likely to involve, for it is not so much the amount of money involved, 
although that is considerable, as it is the bearing upon our life as a nation that 
counts. Its immediate consequences, some of which are making their appear- 
ance even now, may be briefly recapitulated as follows : 

Thousands of unskilled laborers thrown out of employment. 

Large numbers of specially trained technical experts forced to seek other 
means of livelihood, and the economic loss involved in scrapping the experience 
gained in the dye industry. 

Abandonment by the manufacturers of all plans for development and expan- 
sion, and the closing of plants now in operation. 

Fewer students for the courses in chemistry at our educational institutions. 

Termination or reduction of research work, both in the laboratories of the 
industry and in cooperative investigations with educational institutions, ^\'ith 
all that this implies in retardation of the development of our science at a time 
when the world is looking to us to take the leadership. 

Inability of teachers of applied organic chemistry to give their students up- 
to-date information in the field of synthetic dyes, through loss of personal con- 
tact with the manufacturer, and an inevitable resulting dependence upon the 
ancient history of the average text-book of industrial chemistry. 

Subjugation of our great textile industry, and of other industries using dyes or 
dye intermediates, by foreign manufacturers, and, in the event of our being cut 
off from such supplies by another war, once again to be face to face with a 
famine, not only in the dyes but in all other coal-tar products. 

Should we be one of the belligerents, there will be but few dye plants avail- 
able for conversion to munition manufacturing (be it explosives, toxic gases, 



400 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

smokes, incendiaries, or what not), and no reserve of trained men to take 
charge of such operations. 

The world markets open to other nations will be inaccessible to us. 

Fellow Americans, we are at the cross roads. I am speaking to you 
about the present dye situation. Do you want an America helpless or an 
America strong, self-sufficient, ready to meet its requirements in peace, 
and ready, if need be, to defend itself from outside attack? The issue 
is clear. What is your ani; vver? 

PLANS FOR TEXTILE RESEARCH UNDER THE NATIONAL 
RESEARCH COUNCIL 

MIRIAM BIRDSEYE 
Chairman Cammittee on the Standardization of Textile Fabrics 

Two years ago the Textile Section of the American Home Economics 
Association appointed its Committee on the Standardization of Textile 
Fabrics, whose purpose was to secure the cooperation of associations of 
manufacturers, retailers, and jobbers in studying minimum standards of 
wear for certain of the staple fabrics that enter largely into the wardrobe 
of the family of average means, and later, in placing on the market 
fabrics that met or surpassed these standards, identified in such fashion 
that the consumer desiring to get the best value for her money could 
recognize them at sight or call for them by name. While the plan 
originally applied to yard goods, it was believed that it could ultimately 
be extended to ready-made garments. It was the belief of the Associa- 
tion that through the thousands of teachers of textiles and clothing in 
schools, colleges, and the extension service, through home economics 
sections of women 's clubs, and through the women's magazines, it could 
bring the idea of minimum standards before the girls and women who 
buy clothing for themselves and their households, and thus create a demand 
for goods so identified, as soon as they could be placed on the market. 
Last year this Committee made a study of the staple fabrics most 
commonly used for such purposes as women 's and children 's underwear, 
women's service dresses, children's play and school dresses, and house- 
hold linens, in order to select the materials which should first be studied. 

The Committee found, however, that before it would be practical to 
attempt to carry out the part of its program that called for getting 
on the market minimum standard goods, and goods that surpassed 
this standard, much preliminary work was yet to be done in standardizing 



1921] PLANS FOR TEXTILE RESEARCH 401 

the wearing tests conducted in the textile laboratory, and still further 
in evaluating these wearing tests in terms of actual wear on actual human 
beings under normal conditions. For the latter, it felt itself particularly 
well equipped, because of the many students enrolled in clothing and 
textile courses in schools and colleges, who could make up and test out, in 
actual wear, fabrics previously tested in the laboratory. The former, 
however, required a long series of experiments in a well-equipped textile 
laboratory, carried on by investigators who not only had the laboratory 
point of view but a practical knowledge of manufacturing conditions. 

For this reason the Committee presented its problem to the Bureau 
of Standards in Washington, which maintains a well-equipped textile 
laboratory, and to the National Research Council, also in Washington, 
and received not only encouragement but definite promise of cooperation. 
Last February, it gained the approval of the Council of the American 
Home Economics Association for turning over to the National Research 
Council, for organization and direction, that part of its research program 
which dealt with the standardization of an accelerated wearing test and 
related problems. When organized, this work will be directed by a 
research committee appointed by the National Research Council, 
including representatives of the American Home Economics Association, 
and, it is hoped, representatives of associations of manufacturers and 
others interested in the purpose of the investigation. It is anticipated 
that much of the laboratory work will be done in the Bureau of Standards 
which has been interested in this problem for some time and has recently 
acquired new testing machinery. 

When the plan of cooperation was accepted, it was hoped that at this 
meeting we should be able to report some details as to the personnel of 
the research committee appointed by the Research Council, and at 
least the preliminary outline Of the research program. The Research 
Council, however, is planning to make the study of wearing tests and 
minimum standards of wear a part of a larger and much more comprehen- 
sive plan for textile research, a plan which because of its magnitude is 
slow in shaping itself. Moreover, the progress of the Research Council 
has been made more difficult by depressed conditions recently prevailing 
in textile manufacturing and merchandizing circles. 

The Research Council advises us, however, that it is proceeding with 
necessary preliminary steps, and we hope before long to advise you 
through the Journal of Home Economics of the organizing of our 
research program for work relating to accelerated wearing tests and 
minimum standards. 



402 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

GENERAL SESSION 
June 29 

Mary E. Sweeny, presiding 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN IN INSTITUTIONAL 
ADMINISTRATION 

MARY A. LINDSLEY 
Manager, Grace Dodge Hotel, Washington, D. C. 

There are many women who have met success in the commercial 
world from sheer determination, but at the expense of many hard years 
in corralling their experience. When considered from an economic 
standpoint, this is poor economy. The woman with the greatest oppor- 
tunity is the one who goes into her field with a thorough training as 
the foundation through which her vision has been broadened and 
deepened, and her ideals of service strengthened, so that she is keen to 
her responsibihties and possibiUties, and has an understanding that 
makes it possible to contribute towards the further development of her 
profession. 

Club houses, eating places of every description, apartment houses, 
community housing problems that are arising everywhere, schools, 
and many other fields are eagerly waiting for someone who can step in and 
visualize the operation and management in its entirety; who can see 
the mistakes and correct them. 

It makes little difference whether one chooses the direction of food, 
housing, accounting, laundry, purchasing, or any other department; 
each is a constructive piece of work, needing the highest type of fine 
womanhood to make the result worthy of the opportunities. When 
this standard has become established, the commercial, social, and pro- 
fessional world will concede, without exception, that it is not the phase 
of work in this great field of home economics with which we associate 
ourselves, that counts, but how it is done and what is done to glorify it. 
The centuries-old stigma of domestic work is rapidly falling away 
because of the splendid women who have already been farsighted and 
courageous enough to carry out their convictions, and who have had 
the vision to see that this work contributes to better living for the nation, 
and is, therefore, the foundation of the life of the nation. 

As in any large business concern, the manager or chief executive must 
have the knowledge of the detailed operation of every department in 



1921] WOMEN IN INSTITUTIONAL ADMINISTRATION 403 

order to direct, efficiently and intelligently, each department in relation 
to every other. 

The operation of administration is divided into two classes; engineer- 
ing, the preparation of the "product" (food, housing, teaching), and 
salesmanship, the process of transferring the "product" to the public or 
consumer. Success requires that both divisions be operated equally 
efficiently. 

The department of accounting is a field where the need for home 
economics women, with special training in that line, has been least 
realized, but where the need is growing more persistent every year. 
Budgeting, cost accounting, and cost finding are interlinked with 
everything that pertains to buying and planning. The intelligent pro- 
portioning of sums for operation, and the development of economy in 
these portions can only be accomplished when the accountant is 
familar with the operation in detail as well as a whole, has a knowledge of 
the uses of materials and supplies and of the productive possibilities. 
Therefore, I know of no one so well qualified to handle the fiscal depart- 
ment of a housing or feeding problem as the home economics woman who 
has supplemented her training with a knowledge of accountancy. 

The position of house director in large or small institutions is a position 
that offers variety and delight to the woman who understands the funda- 
mental psychology of "home;" who has artistic appreciation of colors 
and their combination, and good taste in furniture and furnishings; 
is gifted in the handling of help, for it is a gift; and has a knowledge of 
textiles. Many of our manufacturing and furnishing houses are obliged 
to send to the new club, hospital, or hotel, a person, trained in artistic 
furnishings and decorations, but wholly ignorant of the uses of those 
furnishings. She determines what shall be used and where it shall be 
placed, with the inevitable result of inconvenience in operation, and 
the attending useless expense of human effort in counteraction of these 
mistakes. What a great opportunity for the woman who can supple- 
ment her technical training with the artistic aspect of furnishings. This 
is one of the administrative positions, which, because of its associations 
with the old-fashioned, inexperienced, and, too often unintelligent, 
"housekeeper," has not come into its heritage, but it is "in the making;" 
and the molding of its future standard is in the hands of those who will it. 

The possibilities, financially and professionally, in the direction of 
foods, have been recognized more fully than in any other branch, and so 
I will say little about it. except to emphasize the importance of individual 
departmental cost findings. Only in this way can a maximum income be 



404 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

realized from the minimum cost. In a feeding proposition of any kind 
there are departments which are run at a loss, although the net income is 
substantial. While this is expected, if the amount of loss in that depart- 
ment is not definitely known, it cannot be adequately compensated in 
another department which is supposedly covering it; any leak, extrava- 
gance, or inefficiency, cannot be immediately associated with its own 
department. 

The laundry offers an opportunity for progressive, constructive work, 
both in organization and research. Here is a department that can be a 
great expense, or an equally great economy, depending upon the pres- 
ervation of the large quantities of linen, which are not only expensive 
but difficult to obtain. 

The positions of purchasing agent and receiving clerk are of much 
more importance than is generally conceded to them. In addition to 
exceptional judgment, and a thorough understanding of the value of 
articles handled, these positions demand the qualification of absolute 
honesty, because they are most important points of control. 

The Grace Dodge Hotel, the most recent project of the National 
Board of The Young Women's Christian Association, is named in 
memory of Miss Grace Dodge, the founder of the Board. It will be 
opened in the fall and will offer accommodations comparable to any 
first class hotel in service and appointments, at rates ranging from 
S2 to $4 for transient guests. It has been built for the travelling, pro- 
fessional, and business woman who requires something better than the 
usual boarding house, but cannot afford the expensive hotel. A number 
of rooms will be reserved for resident guests. There are special features, 
such as valeting rooms on every floor, where a guest may refresh her 
wardrobe; telephone; running hot and cold water in every room; a 
sitting room on every floor, besides the luxurious lounge and lobby on the 
entrance floor; special service when desired; a gift and necessity shop; 
and a restaurant where club meals will be featured. Special accommoda- 
tions for mothers, travelling with babies and children, are to be reserved 
in quarters where noise will not disturb guests elsewhere in the building. 

Every home economics woman will be interested in the experiments 
which are going to be made here; experiments in engineering, in sales- 
manship, labor control, in student training, and in commercial financier- 
ing comparisons. Our plan for offering a definite course to the home 
economics graduate, using as a practice field every department of the 
hotel, is one of the most promising experiments. This will enable a 
student to so concentrate her practical work, instead of spending years 



1921] HOME SERVICE DEPARTMENTS IN BANKS 405 

in gaining her practical experience, that she will be trained in a short 
time for general executive work. I feel that this fills a long felt need in 
the rounding out of the training of our home economics students. 

The opportunities for our graduates are many and great, and our field 
is far reaching in its scope. Every home, institution, commercial organi- 
zation, and school is a golden opportunity. Let us never forget the 
message that Professor Russell Conwell gave us so brilUantly in his 
lecture, "Acres of Diamonds," and so see the opportunities which are 
forever within our reach, wherever we may be. 

HOME SERVICE DEPARTMENTS IN BANKS 

LEO DAY WOOD WORTH 
Deputy Manager, American Bankers Association, New York 

The function of the home service department in any bank should be 
studied and understood by those experts in the technique of home 
economics who enter that new field as department managers. 

In not a few cases, this function is evidently regarded merely as an 
attempt to advertise the bank, or for making it appear that the bank is 
giving something for nothing. In other cases, we may find that assistance 
in the planning and operation of the personal budget system is intended 
to result in the strictly selfish object of increasing the savings deposits in 
the bank which offers this service. But there are cases in which we per- 
ceive at least a rudimentary understanding of the broad principles that 
the banker has a peculiar obligation not only to his depositors but to the 
public, to furnish dependable information on questions of finance, both 
public and private. The bank, which is the confessional where are 
revealed the causes of successes and failures in our business life, should 
use its resulting knowledge. It must frankly assume a leadership in 
the framing of both personal and governmental business pohcies. The 
banker, like any other worker who attains professional rank, must recog- 
nize this duty of public service. Well planned and consistent applica- 
tion of this idea will spread a knowledge of the facts that (1) banks are 
a necessary cog in our American economic machine, (2) they exist for 
public as well as private service, (3) they are in fact "people's banks," 
and (4) they will prosper only in proportion to service rendered. 

It is in the application of these ideas that the members of the American 
Home Economics Association have a very special interest. It is my 
present purpose to indicate the lines on which they now have a special 



406 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

opportunity for applying specialized knowledge, not only in the manage- 
ment of home service departments in banks, but also in formulating the 
plans for developing such departments, and for arousing the interest of 
bankers as a preliminary to their possible employment. 

The home service department, whatever the form of the work and the 
object of the banker, is in a bookkeeping sense related directly to the 
new-business department. This department is interested in stimulating 
or developing old account^, quite as much as in obtaining new clients 
for the bank. The expense in the average institution will be charged 
against the appropriation for advertising. This will probably remain 
the ruling until the work is placed upon a more permanent basis of prac- 
tical results than has yet been observed. 

We approve of the emphasis which was placed, by several speakers 
this afternoon, upon the necessity for individual consideration, the use 
of each client for what you call " case work. " We have seen many sample 
budgets, based on "average" cases, distribrited to "unaverage" cases. 
Until the average case is found more frequently than now, the services 
of experts will be necessary. It stands to reason that knowledge, and not 
mere formulae, must determine the most advantageous modifications, 
either in the apportionment of family income or in revising modes of 
living so as to obtain the greatest benefit from actual income ; and by no 
other method can a vast number of American families be added to the 
list of savings depositors. 

But, on the other hand, we observe in some cases a tendency to enthuse 
too much over strictly professional accomplishments. We there- 
fore suggest a few works of caution: Business judgment and tact 
must be applied along with professional skill, as the home service depart- 
ments are under the eyes of practical business men. The bank's desk 
is not a place for elaborate case work, such as is presumed to have been 
pursued in the college laboratory. Attention is called to these points 
because of their importance to the managers of home service depart- 
ments and for the success of the cause in which we have a deep and 
mutual interest. 

The manager of a home service department, as in the case of every 
other bank employee, must, at all times, have in mind the present need 
for spreading a knowledge of the real function of banking in our economic 
system. She must avail herself of every opportunity to spread a knowl- 
edge of and appreciation for the real principles of our economic system 
which have brought larger and more widely distributed happiness, 
comfort, and opportunity than is elsewhere recorded in history. In 



1921] HOME SERVICE DEPARTMENTS IN BANKS 407 

other words, the members of your profession must not lose sight of the 
fact that you are employed for the purpose of urging and applying Ameri- 
can business sense in both the personal and the public problems which 
you will have occasion to discuss. 

Personal affairs must be managed in what we call a businesslike way, 
for only by that means can the individual enjoy a maximum of happiness, 
avoid the misery of debt, assure preparedness for opportunity, and pro- 
vide a competence for emergency or old age. Some of the slogans with 
which we are familiar and which explain the idea are "work and save," 
"spend less than you earn, " "be a thrifty buyer, " and the like. 

The home service department can have an important influence in the 
reform of our public finance. Persons who are interested in systema- 
tizing business affairs belong to that too small portion of our population 
which is not interested in questions of taxation and all that we may in- 
clude in the general term of public thrift. In the near future we will 
have an awakening as to the increase in the cost of living, which results 
not only from the present wasteful methods of distribution of commodi- 
ties, but also from excessive governmental tax levies upon the annual 
income of the nation. Just as improved methods and a lower cost of 
distribution depend, not upon legislative bungling and bureaucratic 
inefficiency, but upon consumer education, so reduced taxation can result 
only from a public opinion which insists upon retrenchment. Those 
workers in home economics who enter the bank field will quickly dis- 
cover that they are in the employ of men who are broad visioned of 
necessity, and who view these matters as of special importance after the 
strenuous and often bitter experiences of the past year. In has not 
always been popular to preach the sound doctrine that prosperity can 
be restored only by production and saving, rather than by living in a 
fool's paradise of inflation and paper money. We must earn and not 
print money. 

The experts in home economics, who have devoted their energies so 
generously to the development of the bank work during the past few 
years, are meeting the usual fate of pioneers. Discouragements have been 
many. The real worth of their effort may not yet be clear. However, 
we may be sure that substantial progress has been made. More bankers 
are interested, and the plans of operation are taking more practical shape. 
Encouragement may be derived from the fact that the list of banks 
which distribute budget blanks and books is constantly increasing. What 
ever the value of that distribution, the result must be to create a larger 
demand for expert service. With the ending of the slump in the earning 



408 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

power of banks, it is probable that those bankers, who perceive this oppor- 
tunity for popularizing their institutions, will be more ready to act upon 
the plans which will be submitted by members of the American Home 
Economics Association. 

The American Bankers Association, through its Savings BankDivision, 
will be pleased to cooperate with you in the further development of this 
work. 

GENERAL SESSION 
June 30 

Mary E. Sweeny, presiding 
HOME DEMONSTRATION WORK 

O. B. MARTIN 
Assistant in Charge of Demonstration Club Work, Office of Extension Work, South 

Home demonstration work is an enduring contribution to A merican educa- 
tion because it has enlarged the content, horizon, and domain oj useful knowl- 
edge and practice. For ten years ever increasing numbers of devoted 
women have focused their thoughts and activities upon the country 
home. They started out upon the theory that the woman is the queen 
of the farmstead. The farmstead, of course, is not simply the house 
itself, but also comprises the immediate environment. This environment 
includes the garden, orchard, vineyard, poultry yard, barnyard, grove, 
and lawn. The scope of home economics knowledge prescribed by some 
teachers includes "food, clothing, and shelter," but this is not sufl&cient 
definition for the results achieved in home demonstration work, even 
in the short space of a decade. 

The annual tabulation of results shows an enrollment of more than a 
million women and girls. The containers of canned, dried, preserved, 
cured, and brined products and the pounds of fresh ones, grown and put 
up by these workers, from the gardens, orchards, vineyards, poultry 
yards, and farms, is measured in hundreds of millions. Better kitchen 
and labor-saving devices, such equipment as water works, lighting and 
heating systems, washing machines, refrigerators, pictures, draperies, 
rugs, and other furnishings are summarized in hundreds of thousands. 
There has been a growth of the group idea because of the common pur- 
poses. There are now thousands of clubs and an evolution of community 
organizations. Organizations based upon such a foundation have much 



1921] HOME DEMONSTRATION WORK 409 

of promise, for they may mean a multiplication of effective object 
lessons and a fuller civilization. 

It has been rather difficult to get demonstration agents, many of 
whom are former teachers, to understand and realize just where and how 
their work should take effect. They are accustomed to schoolrooms and 
classes, lessons, and lectures. Sometimes, in public speeches and writings, 
they arouse interest by the presentation of valuable knowledge and then 
fail to convert that interest into action. They do not always grasp the 
fundamental instructions which are given to them in the beginning, viz., 
"Your value lies not in what you can do, but in what you can get other 
people to do. " On the other hand many of them with practical minds 
analyze the conditions as they find them and get people to apply remedial 
knowledge accordingly. It does not take long for them to enlist a hundred 
people in a county to prove a principle and inaugurate a practice. They 
call for such help as specialists can give, and they put many mechanics 
and inventors to work in order that better equipments and devices may 
be provided for the women and girls in country homes who are working 
to demonstrate better practices in their enterprises. The evolution of 
canning outfits, pressure and fireless cookers, inexpensive water outfits, 
refrigerating plants, and many other useful articles are practically 
traceable to this demand. Furthermore, this development is just 
beginning. 

Home demonstration work has made a contribution to American educa- 
tion because it has produce ad profession with unique, distinctive, and extraor- 
dinary qualifications. Students of education and of agriculture, who 
have come to this country from Europe, say that the application of 
demonstration principles and philosophy to the extension work, in gen- 
eral, goes a step further than the work of the itinerant instructors in 
those countries. Their instructors are comparable more to our teachers 
of music, drawing, and manual training, who go from school to school 
with their lectures and illustrations. They testify, also, that the home 
demonstration work is distinctive because of the larger place given to 
women in its appointments and conduct. No bulletins or reports from 
any foreign government show any such groups of women with such large 
responsibility and vital relationships in matters pertaining to the welfare 
of the race and the security of advanced civilization. The home demon- 
stration agents are not simply teachers at large. The qualifications, as 
manifested by these devoted servants themselves, as they have moved 
about among the people, are difficult of definition because they are still 
increasing. Suffice it to say that thus far they have developed a com- 



410 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

posite picture of a model agent, and in the picture is revealed at least 
some of the equipment and abilities of all of the following: coach, trainer, 
and guide; gardener, orchardist, and farmer; cook, seamstress, and dieti- 
tian; carpenter, cabinet maker, and mechanic; missionary, sanitarian, 
and health ofhcer; chorist. colporteur, and recreationist; ambassador, 
diplomat, and financier: florist, architect, and artist. Their coaching, 
training, and guidance are more vital than any academic teaching 
which they do. Their teaching is incidental and supplementary. 

Home demonslrdtion ivorl. will last because it reaches adolescents, adults, 
and the mass in a geometrical ratio. Because the home is the family's 
private and sacred institution it was difficult to make it the central teach- 
ing institution for this system of education. From the very nature of 
the case, parents resent dogmatic instruction in regard to the conduct of 
the home. It was impossible to go to a home and announce a purpose 
of teaching the mother how to cook, sew, arrange, equip, beautify, or 
manage. The first demonstration agents therefore asked the mothers to 
allow their gi'-ls to join a club to grow and utilize a very attractve vege- 
table. These operations involved the securing and using of much valu- 
able knowledge in regard to the soil, plant life, animal life, cooking, sani- 
tation, bacteriology, and other related sciences. The agent and the club 
gave motives, the girls formed purposes and desires. As was expected, 
they soon enlisted the cooperation of the mothers. They did not stop 
there, however. Their fathers, brothers, and friends joined in with their 
commendation and support. Success with one vegetable led to work 
with others. From the vegetable work it was only a step to the work 
with fruits. These girls put up standard packs which were works of art. 
They standardized them singly and in combinations. Whole counties 
became interested in certain specialized products. Naturally, the 
mothers of these girls, as well as other women, wanted to take a hand in 
such a useful enterprise. Step by step the plan worked itself out until 
it reached and utilized many of the resources available around the 
country homes. It also reached into the kitchen, the house itself, and 
finally, as a climax, into the beautification of the home and its environ- 
ment. Such a result could not have been achieved if the girls had not 
taken a definite demonstration first and then carried it forward to its 
logical consequences. 

We have had field meetings, contests, exhibits, camps, and short 
courses— all contributing to the expanding enterprise of the girls and 
women who started with their demonstrations. So much interest and 
activity has been aroused among adult women that it raised some doubt 



1921] HOME DEMONSTRATION WORK 411 

as to whether the psychologist was right when he said, "Few new 
interests are created after a person reaches twenty-five years of age. " 
In these cases the interests have certainly been enlarged and increased 
and there seems to be plenty of novelty and zest in them. The whole 
proposition works into a system of mass training. 

When this sytem of education comes to its full fruition and power, it 
will aid greatly in stopping the rush of people from country to town. 
When a sufficient number of girls and women demonstrate that there is 
profit in the development of their material resources, and that there is 
culture and refinement in the skillful use of their talents along these 
lines, the balance between country and city will be more nearly adjusted. 
This desirable condition cannot be brought about simply by the develop- 
ment in agricultural lines alone. The home economics side of our 
Extension Act must be magnified. A national Home Economics 
Association should never forget that women invented the word economy 
in their homes. There is a production profit, a manufacturing profit, 
and a sales profit. By intelligence and skill a larger share of all three 
of these profits can be given to the farmers and their families. It will 
improve the country and its interests, and decentralize the city and 
remove its congestive dangers. 

Home demonstration work grows stronger because of increasing support 
of business men, law makers, and educators. The constantly increasing 
power of an intelligent, public sentiment has been a great factor for 
success. Bankers, merchants, fair associations, and business men gen- 
erally have donated generously for prizes, salaries, equipments, and 
traveling expenses. Women 's clubs have given a supporting sentiment 
and financial aid. County superintendents and teachers have declared 
in favor of cooperation and coordination, and have become most active 
in bringing them to pass. Colleges and high schools have extended help- 
ful recognition and conducted training classes, camps, and short courses 
to add to the knowledge and skill of the demonstrators, club members, 
and agents. County commissioners, county courts, chambers of com- 
merce, boards of education, and fiscal authorities of every kind have 
contributed funds for support which nearly equal the total amounts 
appropriated by the State and Federal governments. The annual bud- 
get is nearly four million dollars, and the amounts will be larger with the 
increase of efficiency and the expansion of the results. More than a 
thousand agents were at work today traveling on trains, in autos, in bug- 
gies, on horseback, and on foot. They are directing demonstrations in 
gardens, in orchards, on lawns, in homes, and conducting meetings of 



412 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

instruction in such public institutions as schools, colleges, courthouses, 
and churches. By such arrangement, home demonstration work takes 
its permanent place in the institution of extension which has become 
a fixed policy, by legal action , of the Federal Government and all the 
states. 

RECRUITING EXTENSION WORKERS 

JOHN D. WILLARD 
Director Extension Sendee, Massachusetts, Agricultural College 

Early in the year vacancies occurred in our extension staff, both at the 
college and in the counties. These vacancies were in crucial positions. 
In the course of the search for candidates a letter was written to the 
directors of extension in nine northern and eastern states. All responses 
indicated a dearth of workers and difficulty in filling similar positions. 
Our colleges and normal schools are each year graduating large classes 
of workers trained in the various branches of home economics, and per- 
chance this group of directors are either exceedingly bhnd or super- 
critical. Surely there must be among the multitude of graduates a 
sufficient supply if only they can be located. 

The growth of home demonstration work suffices to give a part of the 
reply. Further light on the problem is given in the reply from one of 
our institutions which specializes in home economics training. "We find 
it difficult to interest our graduates in extension work. They consider the 
requirements of the position too burdensome; long and irregular hours, 
the sacrifice of a regular home life and of regular enjoyment of com- 
munity relations, the physical strain, the added cost to the worker of a 
nomadic life, and the certainty that work is never completed, act as 
deterrents. Our graduates seem to prefer positions with fairly definite 
tasks and routine, with more personal freedom and less physical and 
ner\'ous strain. " 

I have no argument to refute these statements, for they are true. One 
of our great difiiculties originates in the fact that extension work is 
rigorous in its demands on strength, resourcefulness, and technical 
ability. Let us therefore consider a little more carefully the nature 
of extension work, as throwing fight on the necessary personal equipment. 
Here I speak from the viewpoint of Massachusetts and shall leave open 
every avenue for frank dissent by those from other states. We feel that 
the main task of the home demonstration agent is to focus the attention 



1921] RECRUITING EXTENSION WORKERS 413 

of homemakers on the problems that affect their homes, to organize 
their effort toward the solution of these problems, and to bring them in 
contact with the agencies which may serve them. Results commensurate 
with the task can be obtained only as the home demonstration agent 
builds an organization of women who by their own efforts meet the 
major part of the need, utilizing such agencies as are at hand, and creating 
new and adequate local agencies where necessary, "Diffusing among the 
people of the United States useful and practical information on subjects 
relating to agriculture and home economics." This is the verbiage of 
the Smith-Lever Law, and I take it that the requirements of the law are 
successfully met only if the effort is so organized that it reaches the 
majority of the homes. The concept of extension work in agriculture 
and home economics is to place the responsibility and burden on the 
farmer and the homemaker just so far as they are capable of bearing it, 
and to develop initiative, ingenuity, and resourcefulness, rather than to 
furnish pre-digested information which will reduce the necessity for 
individual brain-activity. 

For the extension work we have recruited personnel from any sources 
which gave promise. It is high time that we ceased competitive bidding 
between various extension staffs, transplanting workers from one state 
or county to another with no promotion in responsibility and opportunity; 
between extension work and resident teaching; between extension work 
and research ; between extension work and the various forces in the fields 
of health and social service. We must give our attention to the building 
of a personnel out of original material, in order that we may have what 
we need, and get it without crippling the work of other agencies. 

Recruiting must begin back in colleges and normal schools. The 
opportunities for service in the extension field should be presented to 
students, but this should be done with most careful emphasis on the 
rigorous requirements for successful work. I can well appreciate the 
problems of deans and principals who are confronted with graduates 
demanding positions in fields for which they are not qualified, having 
been led to consider such fields by glowing presentation of the 
opportunity. 

To minimize this danger, a selection of students might well be made 
by faculties, and, for promising groups interested in the extension field, 
seminar work and vacation practice can be provided. With regard to the 
curriculum, I cannot refrain from urging the necessity of systematic 
training in methods of teaching, and particularly in methods of exten- 
sion teaching, for those who plan to enter the extension field. 



414 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECOxNOMics [September 

But when our graduate emerges from the severities of study which 
are implied in the committee recommendations, even after a practice 
period, she is far from ready for extension responsibility. She will, in 
the majority of cases, lack maturity of judgment and wisely directed 
inspirational ability. I am firmly convinced that we must de\dse types 
of work that may be comparable to that of the interne in a hospital, who 
interposes two or three years of supervised work between his studies and 
the assumption of sole responsibility. This is a task for extension 
directors and state leaders rather than for colleges and normal schools. 
May I submit for your consideration several suggestions, with the earnest 
plea that you criticize them for our benefit: 

1. Assistant home demonstration agents are a possibility. In some 
of our larger counties there is a demand for units of work that can safely 
be sub-let to agents of limited experience. 

2. Junior extension work, for assistant county club agents or local or 
city club agents, will of necessity give introduction to the larger problems 
of the home demonstration agent. 

3. Resident instructors and laboratory assistants in agriculture are 
frequently called on for extension work, and by this means are intro- 
duced to the extension method. Is not the same possibility open in the 
field of home economics? 

4. Urban extension work, under the supervision of the county home 
demonstration agent, is suggested by war-time experience. Such work 
would probably be in definite cooperation with the school system, and 
might be initiated by part-time release of one of the regular teaching 
staff, in order that she might do extension work among the large numbers 
of women who can never be reached by the systematic vocational schools. 
The resources of the extension service are at the disposal of the city home 
demonstration agent now working in Massachusetts, and are effective 
through the channel of the county home demonstration agent. 

5. In a limited way the vocational schools may be able to cooperate, 
though their schedules will preclude the release of any great amount of 
time. 

In these various fields, graduates from home economics courses may be 
given tasks commensurate with their ability, and may be promoted as 
they gain the necessary strength and maturity. 

It is my belief that our technical speciaUsts on college extension staffs 
can best be recruited from the county staffs, the speciaHst returning to 
college after field experience in order to get more intensive training in 
her chosen field. We shall, however, continue to draw many of our 



1921] DEVELOPMENT OF HOME DEMONSTRATION WORK 415 

best specialists directly from teaching and research. State leaders 
may best be developed from the ranks of county agent work, and I 
believe should come by promotion for merit. The crucial unit seems to 
be the county home demonstration agent. If we can insure an adequate 
supply of well trained home demonstration agents, the problems of re- 
cruiting specialists and state leaders are in no small part met. The 
body of home economics subject-matter has material of infinite value to 
the homemakers of today. Our task is to make it available to them. 
Some can utilize but the simplest crumbs; others may make develop- 
ments that point the way of extension leading to us. The open mind, 
both to subject matter and method of teaching, will be our greatest 
safety. By cumulative experience and concerted effort we can make 
advances beyond our most daring dreams. 

EXTENSION SECTION 
June 28 

Madge Reese, presiding 

REASONS FOR RAPID DEVELOPMENT OF HOME DEMONSTRA- 
TION WORK 

To my mind, one reason for the rapid development of the home demonstra- 
tion work has been the great need, in practically every country community, of 
some new life, some live help, some inspiration; another reason is that the plan 
suggested rested on fundamental things and was mobile. 

What has been the development of the home demonstration work? 

Begun in 1910 with 47 club members growing tomatoes and canning them, 
it is today an organization of 135,505 girls, who are gardening, canning, sewing, 
cooking, dairying, raising poultry, improving home grounds, refurnishing 
rooms, learning to take care of their bodies, developing in their contact with 
other girls, improving their homes and communities. 

When the first home demonstration agents were told that it was their 
mission to develop the resources, increase the harvests, improve the land- 
scapes, brighten the homes, and flood the people with knowledge about home 
conveniences, it must have seemed a big order. But they developed the work 
in simple, logical steps, according to the plan. With the gardening and canning, 
the sewing, cooking, sanitation, poultry, and other varied phases of life in a 
farm home formed a natural sequence. The mothers were interested in the work 
of the club girls, helping the girls in gardening and canning, so their organiza- 
tion into home demonstration clubs naturally followed, and they became 
demonstrators of improved methods. 



416 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Another reason for the rapid development of the home demonstration work 
has been the t^pe of woman who has, in so many cases, been secured to carry 
on the county work. 

A recent hand-book for home demonstration agents, gotten out by South 
CaroUna, has this quotation: "A successful home demonstration agent has 
facts at her finger tips, sunshine in her face, the courage of conviction in her 
heart, sand in her shoes and steel in her backbone, which she uses as a lever 
to pr\' pessimistic plodders and organized opposition out of the path of 
progress." Many of the rig^t tv-pe have been secured; otherwise, the plan, 
excellent as it is, would have failed. 

The actual results sho\sTi by the girls and women in their demonstrations 
have been so con\'incing that many who doubted that such methods could 
teach, have perforce been converted. From the beginning, the vegetables and 
fruits, canned by the instructions of the agents, kept, and were pro- 
nounced good. This one thing, done in one neighborhood reached to another 
and another and there were requests for the demonstrators to teach them, also. 
In summing up, it seems that there are four reasons for the rapid development 
of the home demonstration work: It was well conceived. It met a very 
definite need. It has had leaders of vision. Results have been shown. 

MaRG.\RET AilBROSE, 

Asst. Dir. Home Demonstration Work, 
Knoxville, Tenn. 

Never have we known a time in the history of extension work when the 
demand for organized home economics project work for the farm women has 
been so great. PrcNnously there may have been a greater demand for single 
demonstrations and lectures, but the women today ask for help in planning 
a community program. The membership campaigns carried on in nearly 
every state and the incentive of the National Farm Bureau organization have 
given an impetus to this demand which it was impossible to anticipate. The 
extension workers who can offer a solution for meeting this insistent demand, 
from county after county, for help to organize work to be carried on -without an 
agent, will truly meet a real need. 

It is a reward for the early extension worker to realize how much of a 
foundation was laid in the field by the single meeting or demonstration. We 
owe a big debt to those untiring workers who aroused an ever-growing interest 
among the farm women for study of their ovm profession. 

The organization in 1920 of the American Farm Bureau Federation is a 
factor in home demonstration work which cannot be ignored. The very 
rapid development of this farm organization, with its million and a half mem- 
bers, is astonishing. 

Rural people are awakened to a need for definitely organizing for the pur- 
pose of analyzing and solving rural problems. As extension workers we have 



1921] HOW CLUB WORK PREPARES GIRLS 417 

now a chance to assist in a most remarkable piece of work. To do this 
means a thorough study of the situation. We should be at work to dis- 
cover the most effective means to organize permanently the work for the 
farm woman as an integral part of the farm bureau. 

The question of separate executive committees must also be studied. Can 
we best promote a home demonstration program with a joint executive com- 
mittee or shall this work function through its own executive committee com- 
poeed only of women? This question is being solved in several different ways 
in many states. Can there not be set up some standard of effective work so 
that we may be able to judge which type of organization will give the best 
results? 

The lack of sufficient funds and agents is a most serious handicap at 
this particular time. Home demonstration agents, both county and state, 
need more instruction in educational methods. We must demand that all 
home demonstration workers have as sound a training in methods of teach- 
ing as are demanded in any other phase of the teaching profession. 

In looking to the future, the extension organizations have the greatest 
opportunity in the history of agriculture to show how vital a part rural life 
has in the future development of this nation. As representatives of home 
demonstration work, let us seek for the best ways for the men and women of 
the rural community to serve in this great organized effort to make the rural 
home second to none. 

Marie Sayles, 
Ohio State University. 

HOW CLUB WORK PREPARES GIRLS FOR EARNING A LIVELIHOOD 
AS WELL AS FOR WOMANHOOD 

Boys ' and girls '" club work as carried on by the United States Department 
of Agriculture, the State Agricultural Colleges, and the County Extension 
Organizations, generally known as the farm bureaus, is an organized effort to 
reach the boys and girls in the rural community and to assist them in discover- 
ing real opportunities which rural life affords, thus giving them a deeper 
appreciation of the rural home. It seeks to do this by helping them to carry 
out a "real job" which will benefit not only the individual but others in the 
community. 

Every person, young or old, wants to feel that he is doing a real piece of 
work, that his efforts are going to accompHsh something worth while. 

This job may be a small one but if it helps to solve a home problem it is 
none the less real. When a girl has maxle a good fireless cooker at a small 
cost and has showTi her mother that she can put a piece of meat in it early in 
the day, dismiss all care of it, and return to find it cooked and ready to use, 
she has helped to make work lighter for that home. 



418 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Though the subject here deals with club work as preparing girls for making 
a livelihood, as well as for womanhood, we must keep in mind that the 
majority of the girls are to become wves and mothers, hence the primary- 
aim of club work is to prepare them better to fulfill this mission. The girl 
of club age has a splendid opportunity to demonstrate practices and 
methods in homemaking which will be a benefit to those around her, and 
which she can capitalize later on to good advantage as a \nie and mother. 

There is the desire, however, to see immediate returns. She often needs 
to make some money to pui 'base things which she wishes. This has led her 
to enter into commercial enterprises on a small scale. Through conducting 
certain phases of the farm and home business, as poultry, gardening, canning, 
she can gain a small income. This is a natural outgrowth of becoming pro- 
ficient in some phase of the work which she has undertaken. Canning, pre- 
serving, or the making of jellies has probably been used in this way to a 
greater extent than other club activities. Gardening enters hand-in-hand 
with canning, and where these two enterprises are carried on together, it 
makes it possible to get a better financial return, as well as to insure a better 
product. One canning club of eight members, consisting of four boys and four 
girls, most of \,'hom were eleven years, or younger, cleared $160.00. Another 
club composed of eleven members, after one year of experience, decided to 
conduct their season's work on a real business basis. They formed a little 
company and sold $5.00 shares to their own members to the amount of 
875.00 in capital, with which to purchase tin cans, canning equipment, and 
products. They voted to pay themselves 25 cents an hour and their leader 
30 cents an hour; to divide any profits that there might be among their mem- 
bers, half according to the number of shares purchased and half according to 
the hours of kbor they put in, thus settling the question of capital and labor 
on an equal basis. At the end of the season they had canned 1354 quarts. 
They sold these, realizing a sufficient amount of profit to enable them to pay 
back a little over $10 to each share holder and to pay themselves 38 cents an 
hour, instead of 25 cents. Many girls with such a beginning as this have 
carried on, by themselves, canning and jelly making, in order to help put them- 
selves through college. 

Girls have often held food sales, though it is seldom that a great amount 
of real profit is realized from these sales. This very fact has taught a valuable 
lesson to others in the community, for food sales are a very common way of 
raising funds for local organizations, and all too many times women labor 
hard making cakes and cookies, only to have Ihem sold for very little if any 
more than the actual cost. 

Poultry has always been more or less a means of furnishing "pin money "to 
the women of the household, and very naturally it has been a means by which 
both girls and boys have realized a little income. One club of six members, 
in Connecticut, recently analyzed their records after six months of poultry 



1921] HOW CLUB WORK PREPARES GIRLS 419 

keeping. They found a great variation in returns from their labor. It was 
at first supposed that this meant that the member receiving the highest return 
had been marketing the eggs at the highest price; but in going into the records, 
it was found that the reason had been high egg production, thus demon- 
strating better practices in poultry management. 

Girls have discovered that there are markets for nicely packed lunches for 
tourists; that garden products attractively arranged by the road-side will 
find a ready sale on high-ways where there is much travel. 

On the whole, the clothing clubs do not find much opportunity for making 
money, but some have specialized on the making of one garment for sale. 

There are many possibilities in the house furnishing clubs. There is 
always sale for bright and attractive things for the home, and every house- 
hold has pieces of furniture which would be improved, if renovated. 

We believe that the demonstrations conducted by the boys and girls are 
unique in furnishing motivated tasks through which the young people them- 
selves become better farmers and homemakers of the future. 

Elsie Trabue, 
State Leader of Girls' Clubs, Conn. 

Financial conditions today make income-earning features absolutely 
necessary for home demonstration club work. 

It is the butter, the chicken, and the canning money, earned by the woman 
or girl on the farm, that has materially helped the family pocket book in the 
South when tobacco and cotton have been selling below what it cost to pro- 
duce them. 

Home demonstration workers have felt from the first that the recogni- 
tion of the economic factor swelled the girls ' club membership. They want to 
learn canning, preserving, standardizing the pack, and getting it on the market. 
The success of the venture is manifest in the number of girls and women who 
have established market connections with the housewife, the retail merchant, 
and even the jobber. 

Institutions, saw mills, mill villages, have proved good markets. One 
club member furnishes a large college with its blackberry and strawberry pre- 
serves and is negotiating with several other institutions. We find the best 
policy is to sell in your own community first, your own county next, and to 
ship only when no local market can be had. 

The profits are greater from poultry work than from any other club activity. 
Girls are taught to use pure bred fowls and to stick to one breed for certain 
purposes. They are taught how to dress fowls for market, how to pack and 
ship them, and how to grade, pack, and ship eggs. Many members have a 
fine market for birds sold as breeders, and for eggs for settings. 

In Washington, the rural women are cooperating with the town club women. 
They bring products on certain days to sell in the public square. Preserves, 



420 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

vegetables, flowers, chickens, butter, meat, and cottage cheese in attractive 
packages are all in demand. In Sampson County, cottage cheese in quantity 
is shipped weekly by club members to a cafeteria in Wilmington. 

Many giris and women are turning what they have learned about bread and 
cake making, in club work, to financial advantage. One member averages 
$50 a week, gross receipts, on the sale of angel food cake, baked in the fireless 
cooker; icing; mayonnaise; and fancy candies. About fifty per cent of this is 
cost. 

The popularity of the millinery schools conducted for club members has been 
enormous. All of the fifty-two counties organized in North Carolina have 
carried on little institutes for instruction both in millinery and home dress- 
making. Women and girls have not only saved a good sum by making some 
of their own hats but some have been able to make attractive gingham and 
organdie hats for sale. 

Jane S. McKimmon, 
State Hame Demonstration Agent, North Carolina. 

ADVANCED PLANS FOR THE 1921 HOME DEMONSTRATION 

PROGRAM 

IDA S. HARRINGTON 
Stak Home Demonstration Leader, Rhode Island 

I. Present status of work. 

A. Growth proved by: 

Increased demand for workers (see committee report). 

Demand for better training for agents. 

Increase in salaries. 

Granting longer vacations for attendance at summer school. 

Improvement in equipment and office help. 

Better legislation. 

Increase in local appropriations. 

Recognition from outside agencies. 

Value set on accurate records as means to continued growth 

and support. 
Fact that present report forms have been outgrown. 

B. Recommendations by report committee. 

1 . Local leadership. Growing sense of ownership in work and of 

responsibility for program demand that new report forms 
provide space for recording activities of local leaders. 

2. Standards of achievement. Growing tendency to measure 

success on basis of projects completed rather than on num- 
bers reached. New report forms to record progress of work 
rather than itinerary of agent. 



1921] PLANS FOR HOME DEMONSTRATION WORK 421 

v3. Estimate of values. Appreciation of human values as more 
important than money values. Records to include social 
and civic advance. 

4. Terminology. Recognized need of exact definition and uni- 
form interpretation of terms such as "home demonstra- 
tion, etc. " Special committee 's conclusions to be adopted as 
authoritative. 
II. Program for 1921: 

A. Broader conception of work as basis of better program: 

Growth from "patterns and dressmaking" to principles of cloth- 
ing efficiency and recognition of quality. 
Growth from "cooking" to food selection and nut rition. 
Growth from "canning" to production and preservation. 

B. Recognition by other agencies as basis of increased oppor- 

tunity: 
Endorsement of work by League of Women Voters, National Federa- 
tion of Women's Clubs, National Congress of Mothers, 
American Federation of Farm Bureaus, Red Cross. 

C. Efficiency analysis of present methods as basis of future 

success: 

1. Making and carrying out program: 

Need of restricted program for efficient results. 

Definite, minimum goals, as a challenge to surpass expecta- 
tion. 

Regular follow-up meetings to measure progress. 

County-wide and project meetings of leaders, agents, and 
specialists. 

Joint meetings with other social agencies to compare plans. 

Report forms for local leaders. 

Office filing system. 

2. Coordination of effort: 

Interchange with other departments of Extension Service 

and Farm Bureau. 
Organization of use of specialist's time to develop all lines 

of extension work. 

3. Personal efficiency of home demonstration agent. 

a. Calendar of agent's time: 

Work to be revised on basis of relative importance 
of agent's activities. Agent's business to teach 
fundamental principles to project leaders. Tech- 
nical and specialized in struction left to technical 
experts. Filing system to be used as time saver. 



422 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

b. Records and reports to be made a means of: 

Demonstrating value of work. Facilitating work of 
successor. Furnishing pictorial and verbal publicity. 
Report slogan : " One good picture and one good story 
every month. " 

c. Means to better work with less effort (in addition to 

time calendar and study of relative values) : 
Agent to take advantage of every opportunity for 

educa'.ional comparison with other workers. 
Agent to set as goal a balanced life of work, recreation, 

rest. 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE COMMITTEE ON EXTENSION NEEDS AND 

MAINTENANCE 

ItEPORT SUBMITTED BY LAURA COMSTOCK, CHAIRMAN 

I. The committee recommends that committees on courses of study in the institutions 
of the country admitting women students, particular!}- the land grant colleges and other 
institutions wher-e home economics departments are already well established, give attention 
to the great need of training for home economics extension work. 

II. The Committee believes that the primary requisite for extension teaching is sound 
general training, broad in scope, which will give the graduate a balanced outlook upon life 
with an appreciation of its art, science, history, and literature, together with such technical 
training as may best fit her for this special field. 

III. We believe that special training in extension methods is essential for efiicient and 
intelligent execution of responsibilities accepted as a home economics extension agent, and 
therefore urge that courses in extension methods be offered by institutions throughout the 
country. 

rV. We recommend that courses in extension be taught by persons with actual field ex- 
perience, and that such instructors carry through to completion courses begun by them. 

V. We believe all land grant institutions should train for extension service and, looking 
forward to greater development of courses of study, we recommend as a present great need, a 
three months course for prospective workers; six weeks to be spent in studying extension 
organization and methods of adapting subject matter to extension needs; six weeks to be 
spent in field work preferably as an assistant county home demonstration agent, and under 
the supervision of a home demonstration agent and instructor of extension methods. 

\T. We recommend that prerequisities for such course be four years of college training, 
including home economics, and recommendation from the extension director, or his duly 
appointed representative, as to fitness for extension work. 

VII. That careful analysis be made of courses, already offered in each institution, by a 
committee of resident and extension home economics staffs, to the end that students qualify- 
ing in personality, ability, maturity, and other points, may be professionally guided into 
taking such regular courses and electives as may prepare them for extension home economics 
service. 

VIII. It is recommended that field training be offered to undergraduates, such course to 
be taken preferably between junior and senior years. It is further recommended that such 
course be considered a laboratory course, no recomp>ense to be given unless it is recognized 
that such service is of definite benefit to the people of the county concerned. In such case it 
is reconmiended that the student be reimbursed for actual expenses, but no salary paid. 



1921] EXTENSION NEEDS AND MAINTENANCE 423 

IX. The committee recommends that serious consideration be given, by administrative 
officers in charge of courses of study, to the feasibility of olTcring graduate courses for extension 
workers which will lead to the M. A. degree, such courses to include sociology (general and 
rural), economics, etc. 

X. After careful consideration of courses now offered, the committee believes that, be- 
cause home economics extension is yet in the process of its early development, and therefore 
subject to changes, the present need may, in general, best be met by giving general training 
the first two years. At the end of the sophomore year professional conferences should 
be held and students properly qualifying should be guided into the selection of such electivts in 
advanced courses as will best prepare them for extension work. For students of this group 
who decide to prepare for extension work the committee recommends that in junior and senior 
years courses in extension methods and in field observation and practice be given to parallel 
the courses in teaching methods and in observation and practice teaching which are given 
to students preparing for resident teaching. 

XI. We strongly urge that heads of home economics departments and all extension home 
economics workers use every opportunity to bring before undergraduates, rural teachers 
institutes, vocational institutes, high school girls and all other groups of women or individuals 
who might be interested, the professional opportunities and advantages offered in extension 
work, together with the rigorous standards required in training and experience. We further 
recommend that land grant institutions keep in touch with graduates from the home eco- 
nomics departments of such institutions as a desirable source of recruits for this service. 

XII. We recommend that in all states, standing committees to consist of members of 
resident and extension staffs be formed to consider annually personnel needs in home economics 
extension, and to make plans for meeting same. 

XIII. We recommend that the person in charge of home demonstration work keep in 
touch with such undergraduates as the head of the resident department may suggest as desir- 
able for home demonstration service, informing such persons of current home demonstration 
activities and where feasible taking such persons on field observation trips. 

XIV. We reconamend, as a policy to be established, that each year the field of extension 
and recent developments in the work be presented to all home economics students by the 
extension director, the one in charge of home demonstration work, or any other duly 
appointed person. 

XV. We recommend that due consideration be given the personal and educational quali- 
fication for extension work, believing such work requires breadth of training, experience 
which has developed administrative ability and personality. 

XVI. We urge that careful thought be given to the possibility of increased vacation 
and opportunity for study for agents in service, believing that the diversified demands upon 
the time and strength of the agents demands recuperation which cannot properly be secured 
in a short period. We recommend that state and local appropriating bodies be urged to 
supply such funds as may establish a minimum vacation period of 30 days per annum. 

XVII. We recommend that recognition be given to the unusual calibre of service rendered 
by home demonstration agents and that remuneration be made on a basis of service rendered 
and responsibility involved, and not on a basis of comparison with other ofi&cials, educational 
or otherwise, whose duties do not require such training or leadership. 

XVIII. We urge state leaders needing new agents to seek, for such position, properly 
qualified persons who are in activities outside the extension field, and who are available 
or desirous of change. When supervisory positions are needed, we urge, as far as possible, 
promotion within the state. 

XrX. In order to facilitate the efforts of heads of departments and those in charge of 
home demonstration work in making available efficient courses of study for students desiring 
training for home economics extension work, the committee recommends that a committee 
be appointed to make further study of courses of study now offered and suggested, and pre- 
pare a suggestive outline to include: 



424 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

1. Courses which may be recommended for inclusion in the first two years' work, as con- 
tributing to broad general training %vith a minimum of technical courses; such recommenda- 
tions to be broad enough in scope as to be adaptable to the prescribed requirements for degree 
in any institution. 

2. Courses which are fundamentally desirable in the advanced two years for those pre- 
paring for home economics extension. 

3. Courses which may be reconmiended as electives, which should be of sufficient latitude 
to make a given selection prepare for such specific condition as geographical, racial, or other 
specific factors might determine. 

We recommend that this extension section present to the American Home Economics 
Association a resolution requesting the American Home Economics Association to bring to 
the attention of all universities aad colleges, land grant and otherwise, the status and needs 
of home economics extension, as presented in this committee's report. 

The committee looks forward to rapid development of this work, to increased recognition 
of its need and value, and its active support by educators and the public. To this end the 
committee requests all home economics and other educators to lend their best effort to estab- 
lish and maintain for it an increasingly high standard of excellence and efficiency, 

ROUND TABLE, COMMITTEE ON TEACHING 
June 28 

Henrietta Calvin, presiding 

COORDINATING HOME ECONOMICS INSTRUCTION WITH HOME 

LIFE EXPERIENCE 

We all realize that the value of our work Ues almost wholly in the degree in 
which we are able to reach the home and to have practiced there the principles, 
methods, and use of trained mental powers that we teach and strive to develop 
in our class room work. 

We have visions of what we may accomplish in the future, basing our larger 
projects upon the simple ones that we have thus far found to be successful. 
When our work extends into the home and we see improved conditions there; 
when the young children improve in health and strength; when we see the girls 
growing into more capable buyers of home necessities and careful users of the 
supplies purchased; when color and style in dress become more harmonious and 
practical; when the homes are planned and furnished wisely and well — then 
and then only will we feel that our work is functioning as it should. 

Etta Flagg, 
Supervisor of Home Economics 
Los Angeles Public Schools 

The American home is still an entity and, fortunately, except in the large 
centers, a great many of the processes necessary to the welfare of the family 
are still carried on in the home. Those of us engaged in public school work 
know how great an opportunity we have to leave an impress on the average 
iiome. 



1921] COORDINATING HOME ECONOMICS INSTRUCTION 425 

The time is not yet ripe for establishing standards without teaching the 
fundamentals that help to produce these standards. The reaction of the 
mother to the present teaching of home economics is worthy of our consider- 
ation. In practically every case her criticism will be based upon the adapta- 
bility of the work at school to the home — its carrying-over power. If we deserve 
a place in the school curriculum we must see to it that our plans for work do not 
begin and end in the class room. Unless we are far-seeing enough to visual- 
ize the homes of the girls in our classes, we are likely to err on the side of adap- 
tability. The teacher should realize that it is her province to supplement the 
work of the home. She has the advantage of a pedagogical training, and can 
get over to the daughter the fundamentals of homemaking in a way that the 
mother is not able to do. 

The home economics teacher should impart to her classes enthusiasm for 
service so that the reaction is felt in the home in the desire of the daughters 
to be mother-helpers. 

Edna Groves, 
Portland, Gregon. 

Coordinating the home with home economics instruction is essential to 
improve the dress of the high school girl. The problems of extravagant 
standards in dress, extreme styles, and immodest tendencies are found in 
our high schools. Party dresses are far too formal; graduating dresses are 
costly and pretentious; school clothes are assuming more and more elaborate 
proportions. Reasons back of all this are the physical changes taking place 
in the girl and the development of sex consciousness. During this period 
also, she resents restraint and has a growing desire to assert her own 
individuality. 

Extravagant standards in dress produce envy, jealousy, and rivalry, an 
undemocratic, unwholesome atmosphere. 

The control of this tendency of young girls toward that which breathes 
of artificiality, extremeness, and immodesty must come through greater home 
control and tactful guidance until correct standards are formed. 

Every effort should be made in our home economics work to develop in 
young girls an appreciation of modest, conservative, appropriate, but 
becoming and attractive, dress. Parent teachers ' organizations, and women 's 
clubs can do much to create a public sentiment. 

Helen Lee Davis, 
Oregon Agricultural College. 



426 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

TEACHING FOODS IN RUR.\L SCHOOLS 

CAHA HARRIS 
Supervisor of Home Economics, Shelby County, Tetinessee 

The teaching of foods in schools must be based upon the needs of the chil- 
dren and the people in that immediate community. As rural communities 
differ so very much, due to varying degrees of remoteness and advantages 
provided by local surroundings, they require much more adaptability on the 
part of the teacher and tho course of study than do suburban communities. 
This means that every home economics teacher must study her own field very 
carefully. Some serious difficulties must be overcome before there can be a 
proper study of rural communities. There is a constant change of teachers in 
all lines of public school work; new teachers are necessarily slow in getting in 
touch with the homes of the people. The home economics teacher very often 
meets the added difficulty of being regarded as a very critical person. After 
she is once accepted by the community as a helpful person, she has unlimited 
opportunities to develop an interest in improved food habits and other phases 
of home life. She frequently has to overcome a kind of isolation in the teach- 
ing profession. She has to teach her associates how to appreciate her aims and 
how to help her toward working them out. 

The disadvantages of isolation, inexperienced teachers, and constant 
change in personnel of the teaching force can be offset only by a strong county 
organization. If a group of teachers doing the same type of work can get 
together under competent leadership, for frequent conferences, they can secure 
the help and sympathy they need, at the time they need it most. The young 
teachers and the new teachers get help from those who have worked long enough 
to feel sure that they are meeting the needs of the people. 

In order to have a strong county organization, it is essential to have super- 
vision. There must be some one who has time to understand the needs of all, 
and to gather the best from each for the benefit of the whole group. This 
helpful leadership must continue from year to year if that which is built up 
is to be continued. Various plans are being used to get home economics 
supervision. In many counties the county home demonstration agent takes 
charge of the home economics work in the schools as well as the club work 
for the girls and the women. In some counties other phases of school super- 
vision are combined with home economics supervision. 

The conditions affecting the teaching of foods in rural schools vary greatly. 
Much foundation work must be done in a situation where there has been no 
previous home economics training in the school nor home demonstration work 
for girls and women in the community. The people are not conscious of the 
needs of the children in regard to foods. One of the best ways to get people 
to appreciate the value of any phase of homemaking is to invite them in to 



1921] PROBLEMS IN CONTINUATION CLASSES 427 

demonstration classes. Have cooking, sewing, and laundry classes in action 
letting the people see just what the work really means. Ingenious teachers 
can arrange little plays and exhibits which will bring out excellent ideas and 
create a greater valuation of the work. Teachers can take advantage of 
community and county fairs to present demonstrations and finished products. 
There are many opportunities to talk to the mothers at their various club 
meetings. 

In schools where the teaching of foods is being introduced, the school lunch 
can be used as a means of teaching, not only the members of the classes, but 
also the student body and the community, many things about foods that will 
be valuable. When this plan is used, care must be taken to avoid repetition 
that will affect the educational value of the course. 

Investigations have shown that there is more malnutrition among rural 
children than was expected. It requires thinking very far ahead to provide an 
adequate supply of milk, and fresh, dried, and canned fruits and vegetables for 
the needs of the winter season. Teachers and county agents are organizing the 
under-weight children into nutrition classes. 

Regular home economics classes meet the needs of older girls, and nutrition 
classes take care of individual cases, but very little provision has been made 
for children at an early age before detrimental food habits have become fixed. 
Those, who have given much thought to early grade work, feel that something 
needs to be done to train properly the young children about the use of foods. 
Some schools are working out definite plans for the first six grades touching 
many things in homemaking necessary for young children to know. Foods 
naturally take an important place in this course. Much more satisfactory 
results are obtained by this definite plan than by each teacher having to depend 
upon herseK with no knowledge of what foundation has been laid for her work 
or what follow up work will be done. 

Home demonstration agents and home economics teachers are trying various 
plans, in addition to regular domestic science classes, for teaching the mothers 
and children how to choose and prepare their foods more wisely. The im- 
provement will be only temporary unless some plan is followed to keep up the 
work from year to year until the people are able to see some definite results in 
their own families. 

PROBLEMS IN CONTINUATION CLASSES 

ELLEN MILLER 
The MerriU-P aimer School, Detroit 

The Continuation School girl comes with a very different need, a very 
different sort of experience, and a very different attitude from a pupil in any 
other type of school. She generally does not wish to come to school at all, 



428 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

and regards the time she must spend there as so much time wasted. It is quite 
difficult to keep her interested, and unless she feels that the work she is doing is 
of vital importance to her, her response is very unwilling. Her first require- 
ment then is for help with the problems she is meeting now in her work and in 
her life at home. The majority of these girls marry, and a large percentage of 
them marry at an early age, so it is necessary that they should have some 
training for homemaking. 

In Michigan the law provides for attendance of all girls from 15 to 18 years 
for 8 hours per week in a continuation school. Obviously, in the eight hours 
spent in school each week, homemaking training can not concern itself greatly 
with technique. A general course in homemaking has been planned by the 
Merrill-Palmer School for use in the Continuation School in Detroit. The 
aim of this course has been to develop standards and ideals rather than skill 
in manipulation. 

Two of the outstanding problems in continuation work are the large numbers 
of girls who must often be handled in crowded quarters by an entirely in- 
sufficient number of teachers, and a constantly changing enrollment. The 
solution to the first of these problems has not yet been worked out here, al- 
though a plan has been suggested whereby the class may be divided into groups 
and each group enrolled in a short unit course. At the end of each course the 
group may simply pass on to the next unit. The course in homemaking lends 
itself easily to division into a number of such short courses. The fact that the 
class enrollment is constantly changing makes it inadvisable to undertake any 
piece of work that must be held over from lesson to lesson. The class work 
for each day has been planned to be as nearly as possible a unit in itself. 

This plan lends itself particularly well to that unit of the work which deals 
with clothing. There is in the curriculum a course in sewing which is elective. 
While it is desirable that every woman should know how to construct a simple 
garment, it is frequently unwise for her to spend her time and strength dress- 
making when she could buy a garment ready made. Every woman, whatever 
her occupation and whether she sews or not, does buy clothing ready made. 
Her greatest need is for information that will help her to choose clothing 
economically, suitably, and becomingly, and to receive a maximum of satis- 
faction out of it, once she has made a purchase. 

In order to teach the girls how to buy, quantities of ready-made garments 
were brought into the class room. Hosiery was first considered, and because 
these garments are staple in character quite a large number of garments were 
purchased. These are to be kept in a permanent exhibit with additions from 
time to time as needed. Through class discussion the good and bad qualities of 
each garment were pointed out. Each garment was examined by the pupils as 
to type and quality of material, and method of construction. Trade termi- 
nology was explained and its significance made clear. Care and repair of 
stockings, and the necessity of buying the correct size were brought out in 
the discussion. 



1921] PROBLEMS IN CONTINUATION CLASSES 429 

In a similar manner, exhibits of knitted and muslin underwear were brought 
into the class room and discussed from the standpoint of cost, suitability- 
durability, and attractiveness. The subject of underwear gave ample oppor- 
tunity to discuss such questions as personal cleanliness and modesty in dress. 
The underwear was also purchased for a permanent exhibit. 

An exhibit of suits and dresses was borrowed from the stores for use in the 
class room. Another exhibit of corsets and of shoes was arranged. These 
garments were discussed from the standpoint of cost, durability, attractive- 
ness, and relation to physical well being. A foot skeleton was borrowed from a 
shoe merchant and the effect of improper shoes illustrated. Each girl was 
taught how to assume a correct posture, both when sitting and standing. 

In connection with the question of physical well being and personal attractive- 
ness a local woman was brought in to demonstrate the care of the hair. With 
improvised equipment such as would be possible in any home, she shampooed 
one of the girls who volunteered from the class and explained each process as 
she went along. She demonstrated the proper method of curling the hair to 
avoid the possibility of burning it, and showed how to take care of it each day. 
Instructions were given for the treatment of pediculosis. 

Another phase of the work dealt with the home and family life. This was 
based on the family income. While discussion centered around the budget, 
the aim of this part of the course was to develop high ideals of family life and 
to teach the girl her responsibilities and privileges as a member of a family. 
In this connection it was discovered that a large percentage of the girls who are 
working give all their money to their mothers. Generally the mothers do all 
the buying and give the girl money for lunches, car fare, etc. This often de- 
prives the girl of a chance to put into practice what she has learned, or to learn, 
by herself, through experience in buying. 

The practical work in this part of the course was the furnishing of a bedroom 
and living room in an alcove of the basement. The furniture purchased was 
either very simple new furniture or second hand. The old furniture was refin- 
ished and reup bolstered in class and the rooms arranged by the girls. The 
work with the bedroom offered a splendid opportunity to demonstrate the care 
of the bed, and to teach the girl her responsibility in the care of her own room. 

The question of nutrition has been dealt with both through the discussions 
of food in the budget, and food in relation to personal appearance. The prin- 
ciples emphasized were the necessity for protective foods, and selection in its 
relation to cost. This work has not yet been completed. 



430 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

TEXTILE SECTION 
June 29 

Agnes Craig, presiding 

HOW CAN SCHOOLS OF HOME ECONOMICS AID IN THE 
TRAINING OF THE TEXTILE CHEMIST? 

ELIZABETH WEIRICK 
Textile Tei'mg Laboratory, Sears, Roebuck Company 

Until recently the side of home economics that has received most attention 
and research has been the subject of food. This was due to the fact that house- 
hold science subjects have been on a firm scientific basis. The chemist, 
applying his analytical methods to foods, gained the public interest which re- 
sulted in the passage of the Pure Food and Drug Act and in an increased inter- 
est in the subjects of nutrition and dietetics. Now, however, the textile side of 
home economics is acquiring a scientific aspect. The textile chemist is a fact, 
and the subject is rapidly becoming popular. People are demanding legisia- 
tion which will penalize the misrepresentation and misbranding of merchan- 
dise; they are no longer willing to buy materials supposed to be durable and find 
that they are not. They want to know just what they are buying and the only 
sure way of knowing is by laboratory testing. 

The testing of materials is desirable for a number of reasons: clever imita- 
tions of high grade materials are on the market; the increased cost of labor has 
forced the use of cheaper grades of fibers and cheaper methods of finishing; an 
inferior quaHty of goods has often resulted from the use of a greater number 
and variety of machines; and many new kinds of fibers have been introduced. 
This need for testing textiles is the result of the present intricate and roundabout 
methods of manufacture and marketing. In the old days when all the pro- 
cesses of making a garment were carried on in the home there was no such 
need, but now each process is a separate industry, so that there are many 
opportunities for substitution and misrepresentation. 

The nature of a piece of material may be lost sight of in the mere process of 
marketing it; for, even though the manufacturer is honest, it may pass through 
the hands of so many middlemen, jobbers, and retailers that by the time it 
reaches the consumer, claims are made for it which the manufacturer did not 
originally make. Particularly is this true when it is bought in the form of 
ready-made clothing where a variety of materials are combined in one garment. 

Ignorance is largely to blame for this condition. But the time is coming 
when agents must know exactly the goods they are selling and must truthfully 
represent them. The consumer is coming to demand a reasonable amoimt of 
satisfaction and service from goods purchased; therefore, a few retailers have 
established textile testing laboratories in order that they may be absolutely sure 



1921] TRAINING THE TEXTILE CHEMIST 431 

of the character of the goods they are selling — may give to their customers the 
maximum amount of service at the minimum cost, and at the same time protect 
themselves from inadvertently misrepresenting their goods. This throws 
more responsibility on the manufacturers. 

We are entering a period of textile education. Through universities, 
colleges, public schools, the Government States' Relations Service, women's 
clubs, and magazines, the public is being taught to judge fabrics and to demand 
quality. 

The work of a textile chemist includes the following: identification of all 
kinds of fibers, often so mixed and treated that only very careful microscopic 
examination can reveal their identity; identification of all kinds of cloths, 
which involves familiarity with weaves, and manufacturing and finishing proc- 
esses; identification and testing of dyes; determination of the causes and the 
removal of stains; complete physical and chemical analysis of cloths; testing 
of waterproof and rainproof quality of cloth, garments, and umbrellas; deter- 
mination of methods of proofing. In fact, he may be called upon to exam- 
ine and test any kind of wearing apparel, from shoes to hats and any kind 
of textile fabrics used in or out of the household. For this he has worked 
out many standard tests and has devised a variety of machines for carrying 
them out. 

There is now no systematic course of training for textile chemists in our 
universities, though, should the legislation before mentioned be passed, there will 
be instantly a demand for them. The department of home economics might 
logically be the place for much of such training. The training of the textile 
chemist should include the following subjects: elementary chemistry, qualita- 
tive and quantitative analysis, organic chemistry, physics, study of plant 
structures, textile fibers and their microscopic identification, textile chemistry, 
textiles or the study of materials, laboratory methods of textile analysis, dyes 
and dying, and the practical study of manufacturing and finishing processes. 
If the department of home economics is a part of a university then the science 
courses should be taken in the regular science department of the university. 
If it is not a part of a university, most of these courses may be given in home 
economics departments, but should be given by science speciaHsts. The 
other courses recommended may be offered as home economics courses. Most 
of the textile courses given at the present time lack the practical and detailed 
study required for a textile chemist. 



432 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

THE PLACE OF TEXTILES IN THE HIGH SCHOOL CLOTHING 

COURSE 

ZELLA E, BIGELOW 
University of Idaho 

With the broadening of the high school clothing course, the emphasis has 
shifted from clothing construction, and the broader courses include the choice, 
selection, and care of clothing in relation to their hygienic, economic, and 
social aspects. 

This shifting of emphasis has had a marked effect upon textile courses. Tex- 
tiles in relation to clothing construction is one thing. Textiles in relation to 
the selection and care of a wardrobe and of household furnishings from the 
standpoints of hygiene, good taste, economy, and one's social economic 
responsibilities is another and a bigger problem. 

The textile course cannot be isolated from the clothing course but should be 
looked upon as a component part of it, based upon and developing with it, 
taught only in connection with it, and planned from first to last to contribute 
to it and to find its applications in it. The content of the textile course 
should therefore be determined by the content of the clothing course. 

To equip a girl to handle adequately her clothing problem, the clothing 
course in its entirety must cover the following phases: 

Planning. The need for the garment. How to secure it. 

Note: Planning is a mental job and must precede the actual securing of 
the garment. This is probably the most neglected of all the phases of 
clothing study. 

Designing. Beauty of costume. Line, color, structure. SuitabiUty 
of material and style to figure, coloring, and personality of wearer. Suit- 
ability of material and style to use of garment. 

Hygiene. The relation of clothing to health. 

Cost. The clothing budget. Relative costs of materials. Relative costs 
of homemade and ready-made garments. Cost of upkeep. 

Buying. Materials. Ready-made garments. 

Constructing. The use of patterns. Hand sewing. Machine semng. 
Fitting. 

Care. Repair. Daily and seasonal care. Cleaning and laundering. 

The consumer's responsibility. The clothing industry. Local conditions. 

Since these subjects seem to cover the entire clothing field, the question 
might arise here as to the line of demarkation between the high school course 
and the college course. It should be kept in mind that the outline comprises 
a maximum list subject to the varying conditions obtaining in the different 
kinds of high schools. All of the work would differ from college work in being 
more elementary. Advanced dressmaking and millinery problems, originality 



1921] TEXTILES IN THE HIGH SCHOOL CLOTHING COURSE 433 

in designing, and the larger social and economic phases involved in the con- 
sumer's responsibility are features of the clothing field which should be 
reserved for the college course. 

What should be the content of the textile course based upon the clothing 
course as outlined above? A working knowledge of standard materials, 
covering their characteristics, properties, widths, and cost, is essential. This 
essential knowledge is based, of course, upon a study of the fibers, and 
the nature and characteristics of both fibers and materials should be 
thoroughly understood by the pupil. The aim of the study should be to 
enable the girl to make practical application of her information. A study 
of the properties of fibers and materials which affect their relation to health 
must be included, also simple and practical tests for the identification of 
fibers. The properties of fibers and materials which affect their laundering 
qualities should be known. A study of the production, manufacture, and dis- 
tribution is necessary only so far as they affect cost and are related to the 
girls' responsibility as a consumer. 

What are the best methods of teaching textiles to high school girls? Possibly 
the first essential in real teaching is to make a connection between the need for 
the information and its application on an actual problem. The study of a 
fiber and of materials should be taken up intensively at the time when a defi- 
nite project requires the actual selection of such materials. The textile study, 
because it is essential to the solution of the given problem, thus becomes a real 
part of it and is undertaken eagerly by the student. Only so much textile 
study as is needed for the solving of the given problem should be taught, since 
it is doubtful whether a high school girl makes a postponed application of any 
information. 

As to the order of the textile course, since it is based upon the clothing 
course it must follow the order of the latter. This does not necessarily work 
to the disadvantage of the textile course, but care should be taken to plan the 
clothing course to include problems chosen for their bearing on the textile con- 
tent, thereby introducing the textile study which should be put over to the 
girls. 

For the improvement of our courses of study and to make textile teaching 
vital, every effort should be made to teach fundamentals thoroughly, to teach 
only such principles as find application, to teach them at a time when appli- 
cation can be made immediately, and to relate the textile study closely -mth. 
the clothing course. 



434 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

EXTENSION WORK IN CLOTfflNG 

DORIS SCHUMAKER 
Cornell University 

The problems relating to extension work in clothing are the same as those 
relating to resident teaching, except that they are multiplied many times be- 
cause of the number of people interested and the large territory to be covered. 
The aim of the extension program in clothing is to assist the women to solve 
their clothing problems wit!; greater ease, efl&ciency, and satisfaction. Usually 
women confuse the terms clothing and sewing, therefore in the early stages of 
clothing problem development it is necessary to point out, through various 
methods, the fact that women have a clothing problem beyond the immediate 
one of the construction of the season wardrobe. Extension is concerned 
primarily in teaching principles of selection, construction, and care, which will 
enable women to become independent in thought and to develop selective 
judgment and technique by which they will be independent. In carrying out 
this program, the best method which we have discovered is the use of local 
leaders. One or two women are chosen from each community, who have had 
some training and who are willing to meet the agent or specialist at regular 
intervals to consider various phases of the program and to receive instruction. 
They in turn, go back to their own community to give instruction in subject 
matter and to organize the neighbors, thus creating in their own communities a 
demand for better materials, larger assortment of accessories than is usually 
carried in the village or rural stores, and textile testing departments in the 
larger centers. 

The subject matter included in an extension program is essentially the same 
as that included in a program for resident teaching. The approach must of 
necessity be very different. One of the biggest opportunities in extension 
teaching is that of giving to the women a point of view, with reference to 
clothing, which will increase their knowledge of and respect for home economics 
generally. 

Few women have any knowledge of the financial condition of the family, or 
are allowed any degree of economic indebtedness in the dispensing of the 
family income. Through connecting up the clothing problem with the 
economic factors which it appraises, women are beginning to realize economic 
values in the home. 

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE STANDARDIZATION OF TEXTILE 

FABRICS 

SUBMITTED BY MIRIAM BIEDSEYE, CHAIRMAN 

At the annual meeting of the Association at Colorado Springs, June 1920, the Committee on 
the Standardization of Textile Fabrics was subdivided among the following sub-committees: — 
Study of Purchasing Habits, Ethel Phelps, University of Minnesota; Research on Minimum 



1921] LEGISLATION 435 

Standards, Grace Denny, University of Washington; Cooperation on Minimum Standards, 
Miriam Birdseye, States Relations Service; Publicity, Marie Sellers, New York City; Legis- 
lation, Helen R. Goodrich, Michigan Agricultural College; Business Manager (for petticoats), 
Ina K. Pitner, New York City. The following were placed on the committee as advisory 
members: Mrs. Mary Schenck Woolman, Boston; Mrs. Ellen B. McGowan, Teachers Col- 
lege; Elizabeth Weirick, Chicago; Mabel Trilling, University of Chicago; Zella E. Bigelow, 
University of Idaho; Ruth O'Brien, Iowa State College; Margaret Gleason, College of Indus- 
trial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Work has proceeded along all these lines during the past year. The reports of Miss 
Phelps and Miss Denny, Miss Sellers and Miss Goodrich, follow. The report on Cooperation 
on Minimum Standards was given as one of the papers at the general session, June 29. 

The two outstanding pieces of work for the year have been the completion of the petticoat 
test and securing the cooperation of the National Research Council in financing and carrying 
forward the research work on an accelerated wearing test and kindred tests that must be pre- 
liminary to the work of determining minimum standards. 

Owing to the illness of Mrs. McGowan, who undertook the summarizing of the tabulations 
made when the wearing records of the test petticoats were turned in in April of this year, it 
is not possible to give a full report on this phase of the Committee's program. It will appear 
later in the Journal. The advance report that has reached the chairman seems to indicate 
that this summar>' will be of the greatest interest, as indicating avenues for further study 
along this line. 

The report of the business manager for the Committee will appear later in the Journal. 
The petticoat transactions are not yet quite closed up, but it is expected that they wUl be 
before the end of July. Pending the winding up of the petticoat account, members of the 
Committee have assumed responsibility for the temporary deficit of about a hundred dollars 
that was created when the final payment on the silk had to be made. 

Fifty yards of silk have been turned over to the Committee to be used for laboratory tests 
in connection with the wearing tests for the sLs experimental weaves of silk, and a limited 
number of orders for yard and half yard lots can be filled by the present chairman, who is 
acting as custodian of this material, most of which wiU be used at the United States Bureau 
of Standards. Address Miriam Birdseye, 1709 Rhode Island Avenue, N. W., Washington, 
D. C. This silk is valued at approximately one hundred dollars, an average value of two 
dollars a yard direct from the manufacturer. 

It seems probable that, on account of the fall in the silk market, the Committee will not 
be able to repay the loan of two hundred dollars made by the Association, which was to be 
refunded if the profits of the petticoat transaction permitted. 

The Committee wishes to thank all those members of the Association and others who 
have helped carry through the petticoat test, and to urge them to study carefully the report 
on this test when it appears in the Journal. 

REPORT OF SUB-COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION 

SUBMITTED BY HELEN GOODRICH, CHAIRMAN 

The work of this sub-committee for the year 1920-1921 has been educational in character. 
Every endeavor has been made to train the home economics field, and through them the 
textile consumer, in the need for and value of textile legislation. This was done for two 
reasons: first, because of the change of administration and the shift from democratic to 
republican preponderance of power; second, because, as an organization, the American Home 
Economics Association threw all its influence with the Women's Joint Congressional Com- 
mittee in support of the Sheppard-Towner and the Fess biUs and it seemed better to concen- 
trate all legislative effort. 



436 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

It was useless to attempt active legislative work until after March fourth. In the mean- 
time an attempt was made to inform the field of the situation. In October a letter was sent 
to members of the Committee on Legislation, summarizing the status of textile labeling and 
misbranding bills. Detailed study of the bills, and publicity through classes and Women's 
clubs were urged. 

In order to enlist the cooperation of the committees on legislation in the State Federa- 
tions of Women's Clubs, a letter was sent to the State Chairmen of the Textile Committee 
and to the members of this sub-committee asking them to urge the State Federations to pass 
resolutions endorsing and supporting misbranding legislation, as embodied in the Barkley 
Misbranding Act and the Rogers Honest Merchandise Act of 1920, at their annual meeting 
this year. Response to this was very poor and only two copies of resolutions were received. 

The work of this sub-committee continued to be largely educative in character even after 
the assembling of the new congress. As soon as the Congressional Committees were ap- 
pointed under the new administration, a letter was sent out to the members of this committee 
and to many other home economics workers in the field. Altogether 371 copies were dis- 
tributed. This letter enumerated the advantages of the Rogers bill and requested that 
they write their representatives and senators, endorsing the bill, and asking their support. 
We have been constantly in touch with the secretary, Mr. John Jacob Rogers. According 
to his latest report the bill is still in the hands of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign 
Commerce. 

REPORT OF SUB-COMMITTEE ON PUBLICITY 

SUBMITTED BY MARCE SELLERS, CHAIRMAN 

The work of the Committee on Standardization of Textiles during the past year has been 
of a nature that lends itself to popular publicity. This, coupled with the fact that the editorial 
space in most of the magazines has been decidedly limited, on account of tight advertising 
conditions, has made it undesirable to request the publishing of news items of the committee's 
activities. 

Miss Harriet Mason of "The Ohio Farmer" reports that the farm papers have been pub- 
lishing a great deal bearing upon a certain phase of standardization— the textile fibres supply 
and the standardization of woolens and worsteds. 

Mrs. Beatrice Hastings of the Ecx>nomist Group of business papers reports that these 
trade publications are very much interested in standardization of textiles and that ISIr. S. H. 
Ditchett, Editor-in-Chief of the Dry Goods Economist, has recently been speaking on this 
subject to groups of manufacturers. The movement seems to be meeting with considerable 
opposition or at least indifference on the part of the majority of the wholesalers, and retailers. 

REPORT OF SUB-COMMITTEE ON STUDY OF PURCHASING HABITS 

SUBMITTED BY ETHEL L. PHELPS, CHAIRMAN 

Summarizing the whole survey of purchasing habits, it will be seen that a few fabrics in 
each group or class of materials, i.e., wool, silk, and cotton, are of outstanding importance. 
For this final summary all results were combined, omitting only those items where less than 
100 returns were made. The following information is obtained as a result: 

Wool fabrics (service dresses), 34 materials, 1144 cases. Silk fabrics (service dresses, 
underskirts, underwear, coat linings, dress foundations), 34 materials, 1612 cases. Cotton 
fabrics (underskirts, underwear, dress foundations, children's dresses), 36 materials, 1229 
cases. 

Seven, eleven, and fourteen of these three groups of materials, respectively, are used for 
appro-^mately 94 per cent of the garments reported for each group. These materials are 
listed below in the order of their popularity, as indicated by their percentage use. 



1921] 



RESEARCH ON MINIMUM STANDARDS 



437 



Wool Fabrics 






Silk Fabrics 


Cotton Fabrics 


serge 






satin 


nainsook 


tricotine 






taffeta 


sateen 


jersey 






jersey 


longcloth 


poplin 






crepe de chine 


muslin 


broadcloth 






china silk 


cambric 


gabardine 






georgette 


gingham 


velour 






pussy willow 

tricolette 

poplin 

velvet 

foulard 


net 

lawn 

percaline 

voile 

crepe 

batiste 

percale 

Devonshire cloth 


As evidenced by this 


survey, 


these thirty- two materials, 


in the order named, are worthy 


of consideration for standardization. 







REPORT OF SUB-COMMITTEE ON RESEARCH ON MINIMUM STANDARDS 



SUBMITTED BY GRACE G._DENffV, CHAIRMAN 

This Committee reports the following work in progress or in anticipation: 

Miss Trilling of Chicago has made a contribution in the field of educational tests. Miss 
Phelps of the University of Minnesota has studied Purchasing Habits. 

Some work has been done on conduction and radiation of heat in different fabrics and on 
absorption and evaporation of water. Miss Caton of the University of Missouri reported a 
begirmmg made in these studies. Investigations on the heat retaining properties of fabrics 
were made during the war by the Bureau of Standards. Prof. Geo. B. Haven of Massachu- 
setts Institute of Technology has made thorough tests on " Comparative Radiation of Heat 
from Blankets." 

Miss Swenson has been working with Mrs. McGowan at Teachers College on the effect 
of alkaline cleansing agents upon textile fabrics. Extensive studies on this subject have 
been carried on at Mellon Institute. (For results of this work, see "The Conservation of 
Textiles"— published by The Laundryowners National Association in 1920 — Sl.OO.) 

Mrs. McGowan, Miss O'Brien and Miss Storms tested taffetas and messalines for the 
Standardization Committee. 

Miss Hickmans of the University of Toronto made a study of labels on fabrics and the 
relation of price to composition. She reports an investigation of silks in progress. In 1917, 
Miss Glanton made a study of wool fabrics and, in 1920, Miss Denny investigated blue serge 
for the Standardization Committee. 

The Committee on Research feels that little more than a beginning has been made on 
any of the subjects. The commercial world is realizing the benefits to be derived from tex- 
tile research. Work done for the Laundrj'owners National Association and the Cotton 
Manufacturers Association are illustrations. At the University of Washington, a $600 
fellowship in textiles has been established by a Seattle department store. 

The Committee recommends the^publication in the Journal of Home Economics of scien- 
tific literature bearing upon textile^research and also the results of textile testing by the 
Bureau of Standards, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, MeUon Institute, and research 
carried on by manufacturing plants or manufacturers associations. 

It further recommends reports on research in progress and cooperation between insritu- 
tions interested in the same line of study. 



438 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

ROUND TABLE, SOCIAL SERVICE COMMITTEE 

June 29 

Lucy Gillett, presiding 
A SOCIAL POINT OF VIEW 

MARGERY M. SMITH 
Director Dietetic Bureau, Boston 

First contacts with families and agencies in the social field are fearfully 
illuminating in their revelation of the distressing problems of human life. Low 
mentality, ignorance, superstition, poverty, inertia, immorality, sickness, lax 
family discipUne, and unwise use of income encourage atrocious living habits. 
What portion of this complex of social problems can the nutrition worker hope 
to untangle? How can she best be fitted for her task? 

Social work since the beginning of this century has changed its emphasis 
from remedial to preventive measures which strike at the root of social prob- 
lems. Social work has come to mean a large group of specialized activities in 
the field of social betterment. The nutrition worker is a social worker in a 
specialized field. As in other fields, there is danger in too early specialization. 
The nutrition specialist must be able, not only to see nutrition problems, but to 
see them in relation to other social problems. Case work affords a valuable 
opportunity for the nutrition w^orker to study family problems as a whole, and 
to become familiar with social agencies. 

The nutrition worker with a well developed social point of view realizes: that 
nutrition problems cannot be considered apart from other social problems; that 
nutrition problems are not only food problems, but also problems of physical 
defects and bad habits of hygiene; that it is futile to work alone, and that the 
effectiveness of her ov^n work will depend upon her cooperation with other 
health and social agencies; that one's ideas of relative values may change; 
former essentials of daily living become non-essentials and even impossibilities 
under certain conditions; that effective teaching is simple teaching; that a 
sympathetic understanding of human nature is of primary importance, but that 
it is wiser to cultivate a philosophical, rather than an emotional, point of view; 
that a knowledge of the basic principles of child discipUne is needed in com- 
bating lack of parental control, one of the greatest handicaps in her work; that 
a knowledge of practical psychology, particularly child psychology and the 
psychology of habit formation, is indispensable to the nutrition worker. 

Finally, a well developed social point of view gives the nutrition worker a 
\asion of nutrition needs and possibilities, reaching beyond her own community 
into a universal health program which shall eventually provide adequate 
nutrition teaching and care for all communities, particularly for all young 
children with whom real preventive work along nutrition lines may be done. 



1921] THE HOME ECONOMICS BUREAU 439 

ROUND TABLE, COMMITTEE ON ECONOMICS AND THRIFT 

June 29 

Martha Van Rensselaer, presiding 

THE HOME SERVICE DEPARTMENT FROM THE BANKERS' 

VIEWPOINT 

JOSEPH H. SOLIDAY 
President of Franklin Savings Bank, Boston 

Recent developments, the war, and the increase in other methods of saving 
have made the Mutual Savings Banks realize that they had a distinct place in 
the community which could be taken by no other organization. In order to 
maintain their position as an instrument of service to the people of the com- 
munity. Mutual Savings Banks are realizing that they must make known to. 
the public the advantages which they have to offer. 

Hundreds of schemes for increasing savings accounts are being presented to 
savings bank oflficials and they are ready to take hold of those things which 
promise to do the most for them and for the people whom they serve. The 
Home Service Department in a bank, which is offered by home economics 
workers, is one more of these projects to increase savings bank accounts. It 
is of interest to the bankers because it not only advertises the bank, but is a 
means of doing constructive work in the community, and has a lasting result, 
and for that reason seems to be of greater value than ordinary advertising. 

The bankers are looking to the home economics group of women to make 
good in this work and prove that the thing which they offer is really of con- 
structive value and can bring a direct return to the bank as well as to the 
community. 

THE HOME ECONOMICS BUREAU 

SARAH J. MACLEOD 
Society for Savings, Cleveland 

The Society for Savings has always been looked upon not only as an insti- 
tution which receives the people 's savings but also as one which promotes and 
fosters thrift. Under the leadership of its President, Mr. M\Ton T. Herrick, 
it decided that a distinct service could be rendered by having in the bank 
someone whom people could consult about questions of personal family and 
finance. This decision resulted, in June 1918, in the installation of the Home 
Economics Bureau under the directorship of Miss Wardall of the University 
of Iowa. 

The major work of the Bureau consists of interviews in the bank. People 
bring their problems of personal and family finance to the Bureau; each case 
is treated individually; and when desired, blanks for household or personal 



440 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

expenses are given. The important thing, however, is not the account book 
we give; it is the advice and plan for the use of the income which is paramount. 
The account book is simply a tool which will show how closely a plan is being 
followed. The account books and budget leaflets are valuable adjuncts to the 
Bureau but the opportunity of getting impersonal and unprejudiced ad\ice is 
what people most need and desire. The first interview is only a starting point, 
people are invited to come back to the Bureau as often as they desire for 
further help and information. 

The range of incomes with which we have dealt is from $1200 to $30,000 
a year. It is quite necessary to keep in mind that the person v.-ith a large 
income has quite as pressing a problem as the person on the smaller income, 
and indeed I am beginning to think that it is not until an income is of a size to 
admit of choice, that difficulties arise. 

The publishing of budget leaflets is another important part of the work. 
We find that leaflets for single people on incomes from $85 to $250 
a month; for newly weds on incomes from $125 to $400 a month; and for 
various sized families on incomes from $150 to $800 a month are the ones that 
seem to be desired. These figures we base on Cleveland conditions and prices, 
together with the rr;aterial which we gather at the Bureau. In the case of all 
our leaflets we simply say that they are based on minimum saving and maxi- 
mum spending and that anyone should do as well as we suggest and that many 
ought to be able to do much better. 

The Bureau is called upon frequently to give talks on thrift, budgeting, and 
systematic sa\ing to all kinds of organizations, such as factory and depart- 
ment-store groups, pubHc and private schools, and women 's clubs. We have 
never tied up the new accounts or deposits in any way; we feel that we want no 
strings tied to the service, but it would seem that through the Bureau many 
have saved who have never saved before. Others have increased their savings, 
in some cases doubling them, although the incomes have not been increased. 
Still others have made adjustments in their spending so that they have ob- 
tained a better balanced li\'ing and this has resulted in greater happiness and 
savings in the family. 

AccompUshments such as these make the Society feel that the services of 
a Home Economics Bureau are a distinct contribution to its depositors and to 
the community. 

HOME SERVICE IN BOSTON BANKS 

S. AGNES DONHAM 
Society for Promotion and Protection of Savings, Boston 

Mutual savings banks exist because people need protection for their savings, 
but also because they serve the business of the community. Without 
wiUingness to serve business, a bank would become merely a safety vault — the 



1921] HOME SERVICE IN BOSTON BANKS 441 

napkin in which to wrap the talents of the unproductive servants. Without 
the savings of many people, and particularly of the large group of small savers, 
the bank could not serve business effectively. Without a strong sense of the 
possibilities of service to both of these factors in its existence, a bank becomes 
a drag upon the progress of the real things in the life of the community. 

The banks which have formerly given service to business must, if they 
are to meet all of their possibilities, turn a part of their attention to the people 
who furnish the money which makes half of the reason for the existence of the 
bank. To meet this necessity for service to the people, home service depart- 
ments are developing. To the Society for Savings in Cleveland belongs the 
honor of having had the vision. To each bank official, who is a servant of the 
people who deposit in a savings bank, there comes the necessity of decision as 
to how far he will help to make that vision real. 

What is a Home Service Department? It is a department of the bank 
which will assist the customers in solving personal household problems of 
finance based upon assistance in wise spending and systematic saving. People 
with medium-sized incomes have no accredited place where they may obtain 
such assistance. The vision includes: 

1 . A department worker trained in home economics, but willing to learn 
banking terms and methods and the needs of her bank. It is possible to 
graft successfully a knowledge of the service which individual banks require 
from such a department upon home economics training and experience. 

2. A bureau of information where timid people may come for assistance. 

3. A department where interest is shown in the solving of each problem of 
the household, and follow-up work is done, but where the service is confiden- 
tial and impersonal. 

4. A department where the industries of the community can come for 
assistance in estimating the financial needs of their employees, and receive 
active help in promoting savings plans. 

5. A place where groups of depositors may be invited for discussion of all 
problems of household finance, ways of saving, safe investment of their surplus 
funds. 

6. Marketing lessons which will teach wise buying of clothing, food, and 
furnishings. 

7. Lectures on food values and menu making would result in wise buying 
which would increase savings, and, at the same time, help to standardize the 
stocks in local shops. 

8. Cooperation with insurance agents would make the department useful 
in another way. 

9. If such a department is 100 per cent effective there will be cooperation 
between organizations, pubUc health committees, schools, and all educational 
movements, and particularly with the pubhc library. There are possibilities 
of a lending Ubrary for us in connection with the work. 



442 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

10. A laboratory with exhibition of labor saving devices burnished by local 
dealers could be used effectively. A reference file with facts about food and 
clothing available for the use of depositors, with the assistance of the expert 
in its use, would be very valuable in a community. 

The cost of such a bureau wall vary and depend upon the bank. It must 
include salaries, printing, advertising, and clerical service; but as the money 
spent increases, the amount of service possible will be increased in far greater 
ratio. 

In the demonstration of such a service which was made during the month 
of May in sLx Boston banks by the Association for the Promotion and Pro- 
tection of Sa\'ings, we haa m.any interesting experiences. While several 
customers seemed relieved when told that there was no charge for the serv- 
ice, many more expressed their willingness to pay for it, and the expressions 
of gratitude and assurances that we had given help were almost universal. 

SCIENCE SECTION 

June 30 
Minna Denton, presiding 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 
COOKERY FROM THE FIELD OF EXPERIMENTAL COOKERY 

DAY MONHOE 
Department of Foods and Cookery, Teachers College 

Terminology. We prefer the use of the words " investigation " and " research " 
since they describe the type of work we are doing more accurately than does 
the term "experimental." To the la>Tnan an experiment is the trying of 
something to see whether it will work. The less a cook knows the more " experi- 
mental" is her cooking. "Investigation" and "research" presuppose care, 
accuracy, training for the work, and scientific knowledge. 

Requirements for investigation work in cookery. The student must have 
a knowledge of cookery, chemistry, physics, nutrition. She must develop 
accuracy in laboratory procedure and in thinking. 

Flan for a semester 's work in investigation in cookery. The development 
of accuracy on the part of the student by directed investigation work on class 
problems. 

The choice of a problem by the student, and some original work by her on 
this problem. 

Investigation Problems Attacked last year at Teacher's College 

Ice Cream Making. In freezing ice cream what proportion of ice to salt gives the best 
texture and the largest volume of ice cream? 



1921] A SPECIFIC RESEARCH PROBLEM 443 

Baking Powder Mixtures. What is the effect of standing, before baking, upon the volume 
and texture of biscuits, mufBns, cake, and similar baking powder mixtures? 

Mayonnaise. What is the effect of the temperature of the ingredients of mayonnaise 
upon the tendency to curdle? 

Fondant making. Should fondant be cooked rapidly or slowly? What is the best method 
of regulating the crystallization of the sugar? (The Department of Biochemistry cooperated.) 

A study of Fat Used for Deep Fat Frying. Is there a limit to the number of times a fat can 
be used for deep fat frying? (Reported at this meeting by Miss Barber. Department of 
Biochemistry cooperated.) 

TIte Pressure Cooker. What is the effect of the pressure cooker upon the color and upon 
the vitamine B in cooked cabbage? (Department of Biochemistry cooperated.) 

Economic Studies. What buying habits of women effect the retail price of food? WTiat 
are the relative merits of package and bulk goods? What can be done to help the housewife 
to know grades and varieties of foods so that she may be a more intelligent purchaser. What 
is the function of the cooperative Buying Clubs now organized in New York City? 

What we hope to acco?nplish through teaching investigation in cookery. — Investi- 
gation in cookery is required of all of our students who major in foods and 
cookery, because we believe it should be of value in developing the type of 
student who will do the best work in household arts after she leaves college. 

Our aims are: To give the student a broader viewpoint of cookery; to 
develop intellectual honesty and the ability to judge fairly; to make the 
student open to conviction and eager for progressive ideas; to shatter precon- 
ceived fallacies; to make the student willing to say "I don 't know" when she 
realizes the wide field of unknown before us. 



REPORT OF A SPECIFIC RESEARCH PROBLEM 
A Study of Fat Used in Deep Fat Frying 

MARY I. BARBER 
Department of Foods and Cookery, Teachers College 

The study was carried on with the cooperation of the biochemistry depart- 
ment. 

Problem. A study of the fat used in deep fat frying. Doughnuts the 
food fried in the deep fat. Twenty fryings made. 

Object of the investigation. (1). To determine the number of times a fat 
(lard) can be used effectively in deep fat frying. (2). To determine the 
corrective measures which would increase the efiSciency of the fat used for 
deep fat frying. (3). To determine the chemical and physical effect of deep 
fat frying upon the fat used. (4). To determine whether the amount of fat 
absorption in deepfat frying is affected by the number of times a fat has 
been previously used. 

A full report of this investigation will be pubHshed later. 



444 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

THE ORGANIZATION .AND POSSIBILITIES OF COOPERATIVE 
RESEARCH IN COLLEGES 

WALTER H. EDDY 
Associate Professor of Physiological Chemistry^ Columbia University 

The following represents a brief outline of the reasons underlying the estab- 
lishment of the Teachers College Institute of Practical Arts Research, its 
methods of organization and procedure, and the purpose of its presentation 
here as a stimulus to cooperativfr effort in connection with other institutions. 
The data outlined at length in the discussion before the Association may be 
summarized as follows: 

A. Reasons for the inception of the plan. 

1 . Preparation of leaders and teachers of practical arts demands that 

their training stress the interrelation of departments and a 
proper evaluation of the contributions that departments of 
instruction and investigation can make to the problems they 
will meet in the field. 

2. The limited time of students, due to their preparatory courses ren- 

ders impossible the ordinary methods of academic research if 
the contact with investigation methods is to be brought into 
the experience of the larger masses of students. 
Conversely, any research worthy of the name requires continuity 
and thoroughness, and, if the work is to be done by succeeding 
groups of students working on the piece-work plan, there is 
needed a coordinating body of permanency to bind these 
efforts together, assure a finished product, and prevent pre- 
mature publication. 

3. The selection of problems for investigation requires aknowlegeof 

practical needs, a knowledge of what has been accompHshed in 
the past, and of what lines other institutions are pursuing, to 
avoid duplication of effort and to conserve time and effort; 
and, finally, the guidance of as many view points as possible 
to increase production and insure rehabihty and value to 
results. 

B. The Teachers College plan embodies the following features: 

1. The organization of an Institute of Practical Arts Research under 
the direction of a committee composed of heads of the respec- 
tive departments, and super-departmental in financial support 
and direction. This arrangement leaves the departments 
free to such autonomy as they have always enjoyed, but per- 
mits added effort and support in directions of productivity 
such as are of common interest and of general value to the 
public and the progress of the subject. 



1921] COOPERATIVE RESEARCH IN COLLEGES 445 

2. The financial support is in the form of a fund, augmented by 

the trustees as needed but not subject to annual accounting, 
awards being made on a basis of problem needs and not on 
time basis. 

3. The award of problems and support is made by the com- 

mittee to departments after consideration of recommendations 
by these departments to the central body, and such apparatus, 
assistance, and distribution of work is made as to insure solu- 
tion of problem with due regard to protection of students and 
teachers from interference with routine teaching. 

4. A reviewing board passes on the completed work and controls 

publication to insure rehability of published reports and to 
protect the name of the institution. 

5. The institute is authorized to accept and attempt the solution 

of commercial problems and to sell these results to the em- 
ploying firms subject to certain rules of release and procedure. 

C. Examples to illustrate the practical working of the scheme and its 
effect on both production and training are: 

1. Cleansing agents. 

a. Surveys and reports by household administration students, of 
agents purchased by the purchasing departments of hotels, 
and why. 

b. Chemical analysis and effect of agents on textiles, by house- 
hold chemical departments. 

c. Practical laundry tests, by laundry department. 

d. Washing machine studies, by physics department. Coordina- 

tion of this data to compile standards for future tests. 

2. Doughnuts. 

a. Quality and technique by cookery. 

b. Relation of composition to fat absorption already covered 
in part by Dr. Denton. 

c. Changes in frying fats on repeated use, by physiological 
chemistry department. 

d. Experiments on clarifying methods, by combined departments. 
Coordinated results — standards for business and schools. 

D. Results already show these trends. 

1. Vivifying of teaching and stimulation of interest and apprecia- 

tion of the relation of departments to one another. 

2. Increase in applicants for participation in the actual research. 

3. Better appreciation, by departments, of one another's needs and 

problems. 

4. Need for extension of the cooperative movement to institutions 

of similar type. 

5. Need for better publication facilities, abstracts, and biblio- 

graphical reviews. 



446 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

THE BASAL METABOLISM OF WOMEN AND UNDERWEIGHT 

CHILDREN 

KATHARINE BLUNT 
University of Chicago 

The basal metabolism, or the calorie production of the individual when 
living perfectly quiet without food, was determined by the comparatively 
simple Benedict portable respiration apparatus. The first subjects were 
normal young women, for whom ^'t was found that there is no regular periodic 
variation in metabolism during menstruation. In another group, 20 under- 
weight young women students referred to us by the physical training depart- 
ment, the basal metaboHsm did not vary from that expected for normal weight 
women; that is, their underweight did not seem to aflfect their metaboUsm. 

Underweight children, on the other hand, members of the Child Health School 
at the University, showed abnormally high metabohsm. Their food require- 
ment, therefore, was higher than that of normal children, while in practice 
they tended to eat less. 

PRELIMINARY REPORT ON THE EFFECT OF COOKING FOODS 

IN THE PRESSURE COOKER ON THE BIOLOGICAL 

VALUE OF SUCH FOODS 

LOUISE STANLEY AND RUTH WHIPPLE 
University of Missouri 

The object of these experiments was to find out whether or not foods pre- 
pared in the pressure cooker were as effective in promoting growth in white 
rats as the same food raw. We have worked upon food mixtures of definite 
compositions rather than purified food substances. We hope, if this is definite 
indication of loss of value in the cooking of these foods, to analyze the results 
with quantitative technique, so as to determine to what specific constituent 
the result is due. 

The first diet used was; cornmeal 85 per cent, dried skim milk 15 per cent, 
dried spinach 5 per cent. 

Growth was obtained on this which at first seemed normal but later appeared 
to be less than normal. There was no reproduction on this diet. 

The animals, fed on this food, cooked for hah an hour with water at 10 
pounds pressure, showed slightly less growth, while the curve of the animals, 
fed on the same food cooked for one half hour at 24 pounds pressure, was still 
less satisfactory. 

Two animals were fed on the same food heated dry at 10 pounds pressure. 
One died after sixty days on this food, and the other showed small scabs 
appearing over the left side of the body. 



1921] EMULSIFICATION IN MAYONNAISE 447 

The second diet was: corn meal 75 per cent, skim milk. 15 per cent, crisco 
10 per cent (added after sterilization). With an equal amount of canned 
tomatoes. This diet raw gave more satisfactory growth but as yet no repro- 
duction. 

One of the rats, on the food cooked at 10 pounds pressure, gave birth to eight 
young, one of which died at two weeks and all of which were decidedly below 
normal weight for this age. 

One of the rats, on the food cooked at 25 pounds pressure, gave birth to 
seven undersized young, all of which were eaten during the first day except 
one which was put aside to be preserved in alcohol. 

While we do not feel that we can draw any conclusions from the data up to 
the present time, the results would seem to indicate that their food cooked in 
a pressure cooker for the time and pressure indicated is less efficient biologically 
than the same food raw. 

EMULSIFICATION IN MAYONNAISE 

KENNETH L. MARK 
Professor of Chemistry, Simmons College 

The progress of the emulsification of oil in egg yolk was studied by taking 
samples of mixtures every ten seconds during the process of beating the in- 
gredients together, and then observing, at a magnification of 660 diameters, 
the degree of dispersion of the oil in the samples. 

It was found (1) that if the proportion of oil to that of the egg or of the 
emulsion already produced was kept below a certain maximum a stable 
emulsion always resulted, no matter what the temperature or manner of beat- 
ing; (2) that if the proportion of oil exceeded a certain minimum the egg or the 
emulsion which had already been made always became dispersed in the oil 
and no permanent emulsion was formed; (3) that if proportions between these 
limits were used a permanent emulsion might or might not be formed, depen- 
dent on such variables as temperature and manner of beating; (4) that if the 
egg was previously diluted by adding vinegar the proportion of oil which 
could be permanently emulsified was greatly increased during the addition of 
the first and second portions of oil, but that as the viscosity of the mixture in- 
creased the maximum ratio of oil to emulsion rapidly approached the value 
found when egg alone was used. 

Further work on this subject is in progress. 



448 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

STUDIES OF THE BACTERIAL FLORA OF HOME CANNED 

VEGETABLES 

HAHOLD L. LANG 
Professor of Biology and Public Health, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 

Bacteriological examinations were made of 938 cans of vegetables packed 
under home conditions; of these, 302 were spoiled, and 636 were in good condi- 
tion. The products included peas, corn, lima beans, asparagus, string beans, 
spinach, chard, okra, field pjds, carrots, summer squash, and tomatoes. 
While most of the vegetables were packed in glass jars many packs in tin were 
included. Most of the vegetables were processed in the water bath, but about 
10 per cent had been processed under steam pressure. 

The investigation showed the following results: Home canned vegetables 
in first class condition are not necessarily sterile, but frequently contain the 
spores of resistant soil bacteria. These spores, however, do not cause spoilage 
pro\-ided the can has a good vacuum and the seal remains tight. Living, 
vegetative bacteria are not found in canned goods of good quality, except in 
the case of leak> containers. Yeasts were found only twice and then were 
isolated from leaky cans. Molds were isolated from about five per cent of the 
spoiled cans, where the seal had been broken. 

Three groups of bacteria occur in home canned foods; aerobic species, 
anaerobic species, and thermophilic bacteria, the latter including both aerobes 
and facultative anaerobes. The following species of aerobic soil bacteria were 
isolated: B. sub tills (Ehrenberg), isolated 120 times; B. mesentericus 
(Flijgge), isolated 115 times; B. vulgatus (Flijgge), isolated 96 times; B. 
megatherium, isolated 28 times; B. cereus, isolated 25 times; B. vaculatus, 
isolated 12 times; and B. mycoides. Twelve other members of the B. sub- 
tiHs-mesentericus group not corresponding to any of the known species were 
isolated. All anaerobic bacteria found produced gas vigorously in dextrose 
media at 37°C. The most frequent cause of spoilage was one strain (or 
possibly several closely related strains) of butyric acid organism isolated from 
185 cans of spoiled com, peas, and lima beans. Spores of this organism 
resisted 100°C. for six hours, as well as intermittent processing at 100°C. for 
one hour at intervals of 18 and 24 hours. B. Welchii was isolated several times. 
Eight strains of true thermophilic bacteria and seven strains of facultative 
thermophiles were isolated. These probably play a part in the spoilage of 
canned goods, since they may develop during the heating and cooling of the 
cans between 40° and 60°C. 

The frequency of occurrence of the spores of bacteria in cans of good quality 
varied from 20 per cent in the case of tomatoes to 80 per cent in the case of 
spinach. Spores of the B. subtihs-mesentericus group were able to withstand 
100°C. for periods varying from 5^ to 10 hours. Four successive heatings 



1921] HOUSING FOR BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL WOMEN 449 

at lOO^C. for 1 hour and Ij hours, both at intervals of 18 hours and 24 
hours, also failed to kill the spores of some strains. 

No organisms resembling B. botulinus in its cultural or morphological 
characteristics were found. Anaerobic butyric acid bacteria were not isolated 
from cans of good quaUty. 

RESEARCH WORK IN HOME ECONOMICS IN THE UNITED STATES 

1920-1921 

MINNA C. DENTON 

Presented by C. F. Langworthy by request 

The term "research work in home economics " in this report was interpreted 
very broadly to include not only the materials dealt with but also methods of 
instruction and problems in social welfare. 

Twelve colleges and four United States Government departments, repre- 
senting twelve states and the District of Columbia, sent the titles of nearly a 
hundred such research problems. By far the greatest number dealt with foods 
and nutrition, there being 67 in this group, 11 under the general subject of edu- 
cation, 8 under social welfare, 6 under clothing, and a few more under miscel- 
laneous headings. 

Many of these problems have been studied as part of the requirement for 
the master's degree, and the results of not a few have been published in the 
various scientific journals, thus making them a permanent contribution to the 
subject matter of home economics. 

In addition to presenting the report. Dr. Langworthy gave some information 
regarding work of the Office of Home Economics published in technical bulle- 
tins of the Department of Agriculture, and also in professional and technical 
journals. 

INSTITUTION ECONOMICS SECTION 
June 30 

Mary Lindsley, presiding 
HOUSING FOR BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL WOMEN^ 

BLANCHE GEARY 
Architectural and Economic Bureau, National Board, Y. W. C. A. 

Many thinking men and women still imagine that "girls live at home," 
though twelve million or more are said to be at work in the commercial and 

Various cooperative housing plans are suggested in "Housing for Employed Women 
Away from Home," The Woman's Press, 600 Lexington Ave., New York City. 



450 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

industrial worid. A very large but undeterminable proportion of the twelve 
million no longer can or will live at home. 

Men everywhere are stud>'ing the problem of housing the working man and 
his family. It is well known, too, that everywhere the single man, or the man 
and his family, have the preference, and that the single woman or girl must 
take what is left of the accommodation available. There is, therefore, even a 
more critical need for just as thorough a study of the problem of housing girls 
and women who live and work away from home. Furthermore, no study can 
be complete which does not also take into consideration the needs of the girl 
students in the large and small educational centers, for, in many places, the 
educational enrollment far exceeds the capacity of the neighborhood in rooms 
and beds. A thorough study of the subject must also include the welfare of 
the women and girls who travel of necessity; in many cities hotel accommoda- 
tion is not to be had, or single rooms are at a premium. 

The steadily growing number of women and girls in the gainful occupations 
in the United States has greatly intensified the danger of the critical situation 
recognized before the war by the Young Women's Christian Association and 
other organizations in touch with the housing problem. We were then aware of 
the fact that an enormous percentage of applicants for rooms were unable to 
satisfy themselves, for there was nothing to be had. During the war hundreds 
of thousands more workers increased the pressure on existing accommodation 
and, up to the present time, no construction that in any way meets this need 
has been put through. During this same period the wages of men have gone 
up by leaps and bounds; the wages of women have increased to some extent, 
but not to the same extent. The t^'pical landlady still prefers, according to 
her wont from time immemorial, to rent her accommodation to any man rather 
than to the nicest girl. There is little question that in the majority of cities 
and towns, so far as girls and women are concerned, a deplorable condition 
exists. 

Nothing but the " cheapest possible " quarters can be purchased by the girl 
earning a minimum living wage, and the cheapest possible in actual dollars 
and cents is almost always the worst from the point of view of overcrowding, 
sanitation, and moral strain. What, then, are the chances for the girl who is 
not yet earning a minimum living wage, since even those business and pro- 
fessional women who have large resources have their difficulties? 

For a number of years the Young Women's Christian Association has done 
what little it could to meet the emergency by providing a relatively small 
number of beds. There are approximately 8,000 beds under the Young 
Women's Christian Association roof in the United States of America. Several 
years ago this provision more nearly met the need; today it is utterly inadequate 
in the majority of towns and cities. 

The made-over mansion. Some fifty or sixty years ago the Young Women's 
Christian Association began its labor of love in opening up small made-over 



1921] HOUSING FOR BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL WOMEN 451 

mansions furnished to accommodate about twenty-five or thirty girls. The 
committee work was entirely in the hands of the splendid women who desired 
to "do for" the poor girl and provide her with the cheapest possible room and 
board for as long as she might seem to need it. It became obvious, after a 
while, that we were undermining the spirit of independence and weakening the 
incentive to greater effort of the few, while gaining for ourselves an unenviable 
reputation among the many as a much-to-be-avoided "charity." 

The combination building. When the Young Women's Christian Association 
became convinced a number of years ago that existing accomodation was 
inadequate it was led in many places to add a few bedrooms to its newly built 
"activities" building and thus we find in some cities thirty or forty, or in some 
cases more, bedrooms on the floors above a gymnasium, pool, club and class- 
rooms. Experience proves the unwisdom and the inadequacy of that attempt 
to meet the need. 

The cottage home. During the preliminary stages of the study of ways and 
means of construction and operation certain undeniable facts become obvious 
and the ideal fades into the limbo of the unpractical. At present building 
prices, for instance, we cannot afi'ord a separate roof, separate heating plant, 
separate basement, for each group of fifteen or twenty residents; nor can we 
afford (or find if we could afford) the right kind of house-mother for each of 
many small groups. 

The present ideal is undoubtedly a specially built project planned in such 
fashion that it can be operated on an economic basis and produce a 4 to 6 per 
cent return on the entire investment in land, construction, and equipment. 

Location. Preferably it should be on a quiet settled residence street within 
fifteen or twenty minutes ' walk of that part of the town where the majority of 
the residents are employed; on a well lighted, well paved street, so related to 
the points of the compass that what cool summer breezes there are circulate 
freely at night to the refreshment of the family. 

Floor plan. The content of the building should include the following: an 
indi\ddual bedroom having a plastered closet and a complete set of furniture; 
plumbing grouped in convenient locations in the proportion of 5 beds to one 
bath, 6 beds to one toilet, 5 beds to one wash-basin; dormitories, when there 
is an imperative need for the very cheapest kind of temporary accommodation; 
a laundry for residents ' use with possibly 24 washtubs, steam dryers, and 6 or 
8 ironing boards; a trunk room large enough to contain 1 trunk for each bed; 
an infirmary for doubtful or contagious cases, pending removal or other temp- 
orary service; a kitchenette; a sewing room; a dining room to seat the full 
number of residents; social parlors adequate in all respects; emergency quarters; 
recreation hall; help's dining room, sitting room, and locker room. 

The equipment should be simple and inexpensive as solid construction 
and durability warrant; suitable in all respects to the type of resident expected. 



452 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

The American giri and woman in general can pay her way and wants to do so. 
A chain of such residences, club houses, — call them what one likes — should be 
built in every city and town recognizing a housing problem for women and 
girls. Present-day social ideals demand that those who work faithfully shall 
earn enough to cover the cost of these prime necessities of life: decent clothing, 
enough food, and suitable shelter. Present-day standards demand that suit- 
able shelter shall be available. We no longer need to cry, "Votes for women! " 
but "Houses for Women!" and the job of providing them is, in most cities, 
too huge now for any one orjranization to attempt singlehanded. It is the 
community's job, through united effort. 

A 1921 Suggestion. The Architectural and Economic Bureau of the National Young 
Women's Christian Association, (600 Lexington Avenue, New York City), has made studies 
looking toward the discovery of the cheapest possible method of floor planning and building 
for the girl who can pay only ten dollars, eleven dollars, and upwards a week for single room 
and two meals. At prices obtained in the spring of 1921 in New York State it appears possible 
to build: 

A. A fireproof building on land 60' x 100' eight stories high, which, rented to 160 girls at 
$11 a week for room and two meals, produces 4% net on a total investment of $371,000, pro- 
viding not more than $20,000 goes into cost of land. 

B. In suitable locations, a semi-fireproof building of brick and stone with cement or com- 
position floors can be built on land 125' x 180', three stories and basement, which, housing 
160 girls at $10 a week for room and two meals, can be made to pay 4% on the investment 
of $265,000, providing cost of land does not exceed $10,000. 

C. A semi-fireproof building, brick exterior, wood floors and joists, composition floors 
on wood, plaster walls on wood studs, metal or wood lath, can be built four stories high, on 
land 60' x 100'. This accommodates 70 girls at $10.50 a week for room and two meals, can 
be made to pay 4% on the total investment of $100,000, providing the land does not exceed 
$2,500. 

Each of the foregoing floor plans results from months of study in the effort to eliminate 
waste space, and to provide just enough and not too much social room, dining room, kitchen 
and dependencies, trunk room, storage, work-shop, residents' laundry, bath and lavatory 
accommodation. 

THE INDUSTRIAL CAFETERIA 

E. H. ANSELL 
The New England Telephone Company 

Every industrialist of to-day is striving to secure efficient employees. Now 
efficiency cannot exist without physical fitness. Is it not, then, the first duty 
of the employer to create this physical fitness? How shall he accomplish it? 
One of the prime factors in solving his problem is the industrial lunch room. 

There are two fundamental reasons for furnishing lunches to employees: 
1. The employees are benefited because, by securing health-producing foods 
at prices that entice, they are assisted in preserving their working capital, 
their health. 2. The industrialist is benefited because his employees are 
enabled to fulfil to the utmost their part of the wage contract. 



1921] THE INDUSTRIAL CAFETERIA 453 

I call such work mutuality work because the benefit is mutual. The ill 
effects of indigestion due to cold lunches, hurriedly consumed, cannot be 
computed in cost summaries with any degree of accuracy, nor can the benefits 
of hot lunches; but it has been proved that the cost of maintaining lunch rooms 
is more than made up by the increased efl&ciency of the employees that take 
advantage of them. 

The factors that influence patronage are: outside restaurant opportunities, 
distance between work and the home, selling prices of foods, and their appetizing 
appearance and quality. In the New England Telephone Company's lunch 
rooms, the daily patronage in the Boston office is 81 per cent of the total force, 
while in the suburban offices, like Cambridge, Brookhne, Somerville, the patron- 
age is 71 per cent. A comparison of these percentages with the average 
patronage of other industrial lunch rooms where the plant is isolated from 
public restaurant service is interesting. In three industries in different cities 
near Boston, the average patronage was 25 per cent, 25 per cent, and 12 per 
cent. A brief study of this field would show how much your association and 
training in cafeteria management is needed. 

I ' I believe that the cafeteria patronage of the New England Company is due 
to the following factors: prices that entice, appetizing appearance of foods, 
quaUty of suppUes, and variety of menus. 

There are 75 different menus, but menus are identical each day in all units. 
Each menu is supplemented by cooking instructions, so that all foods may be 
uniformly prepared and all portions equal. Each menu is also provided with 
a chart of food values for the use of the patron in selecting a well balanced 
ration. 

Sample Menu 

Fuel value Cost 
calories cents 

Chicken pie 195] 

Bread or roU lOOJ 17 

Butter 85] 

Glass of milk 210 3 

Peach blanc mange 330 8 

Total 920 28 

You will notice that this sample menu provides for food combinations at a 
price for the combination. Formerly, the menu showed each food item separ- 
ately; for example, roast beef was 15 cents, mashed potato 3 cents, bread 1 cent 
per slice, etc. In such straight cafeteria service, the employee is given an oppor- 
tunity to secure an adequate ration, and also an opportunity to evade securing 
one; for example, observations showed that many young women selected 
mashed potato, bread, butter, and ice cream, or something similar which did not 
provide a working fuel. These observations showed that only about 18 per 
cent of the patrons were picking up a proper ration, and, as a means of correct- 



454 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

ing this, the combinations were introduced with the same price for the combina- 
tion that was formerly charged for the meat alone. 

I beHeve that an ideal financial arrangement is to have the industrialist 
assume the expense of rent, light, heat, and equipment; the cafeteria to meet 
the costs of foods, plus the cost of the wages of the cafeteria employees. My 
company's lunch rooms are conducted upon this basis, and the costs of wages 
are met by adding 33 1/3 per cent to the cost of the foods; the expense that 
the company assumes amounts to about 8 1/2 cents per capita per week. Let 
me emphasize that 8 1/2 cents y er capita per week. This expense is more than 
offset by the financial benefits that the company receives; for example, in 
offices where lunch rooms are provided, the absence among the forces is 
from 1 1/2 to 2 per cent less than in the offices not having lunch rooms, and the 
percentage of employees occupying our quiet rooms is much less in offices 
where lunches are served. 

Labor organizations regard labor as a commodity and pay no attention to 
training workers to fit them for advancement. A manager or a supervisor 
must be prepared for her position before we put her to work, and we must look 
to some organization outside of labor to provide our executives. 

I believe that the best results can be secured with trained women of more 
mxature age, 35 or over, who have raised their families, and whose lives have 
become stabilized, but who must work. 

Important assets for cafeteria managers or supervisory work are as follows: 
Natural executive ability. Experience in home management, large or small, 
that gives stability to reason and judgment. Thorough training in cooking 
in large amounts. Standardized recipes that give the number and size of 
portions to be secured. Training in the simplest methods with which to 
obtain per capita cost, and percentage cost of wages and overhead. An under- 
standing of what it means to serve the public or private group. Tact and 
diplomacy in dealing with criticism and in directing subordinates. 

Our equipment is the counter service equipment, and it is constructed in 
units capable of expansion, to meet the requirements of offices of different 
sizes at a minimum expense. The units are composed of metal and are of 
uniform height and width, all having liberty silver or monel metal tops, so 
that they constitute a continuous working counter that will wear and look 
well indefinitely. 

COUNCIL MEETINGS 

Report of Council Meeting 

June 27, 1921, 10.00 a.m. 

Members present: Mary E. Sweeny, presiding; Mrs. Calvin, Dr. Lang- 
worthy, Mrs. Bryan, Misses Blood, Cooper, MacLeod, Matthews, Milam^ 
E.eese, Weigley, Winslow, Roof, Thomas, Gearing. 



1921] COUNCIL MEETINGS 455 

Meeting called to order by the chairman. Minutes of the last meeting 
were called for, but since they had already been printed, it was voted that the 
reading be omitted and that the minutes be approved as printed. 

Finance Committee. Report submitted by Sarah MacLeod, chairman, as 
follows: 

The trial balance of May 31, 1921 shows a deficit for the Joxirnal of $1323.75 and a surplus 
for the Association of $361.32. 

The funds of the Association must be increased. The suggested budget for 1921 is entirely 
inadequate because the income of the Association is inadequate. 

Three methods of increasing funds suggest themselves, namely: (1) Increasing member- 
ship. (2) Increasing dues. (3) Making the Joxirnal an organ of the Association. There 
are only 1168 members of the Association and there are about 6000 subscribers to the 
Journal. The committee requests the Council to give its help by discussing possible ways 
of increasing funds. 

The question of increasing membership, also membership fees, was dis- 
cussed. Moved and seconded that the chair should appoint a committee to 
make contact with the various other committees, this committee to work with 
Miss MacLeod on the matter of finance and to make a report at the meeting. 
Carried. The chair then appointed Anna Richardson and Ruth Dickey to 
confer with Miss MacLeod. Report accepted. 

Committee on Survey of Home Economics Courses. Report sent by the 
chairman, Ada M. Field, read by the secretary, as follows: 

The committee planned to make as thorough a survey as possible of the work now being 
given in the home economics courses in institutions of college rank. The work was divided 
according to the regions, with approximately uniform plans for the whole. Some regions 
were delayed for various reasons in getting out questionnaires and information to the institu- 
tions in their territory, but those who were able to get plans out during the fall — the Pacific 
and the Southern Regions — report encouraging codperation. A number of reports are now in. 
It is hoped that all regions will have the work completed by the middle of the present year, 
but it may be necessary to compile and publish separately the data for different regions. 

The committee recognizes that a great deal of work is involved in preparing the reports 
from Institutions, but it feels that the response already made in two regions indicates that 
home economics teachers are feeling the need of a study of this kind, and that the results will 
be of value. We wish to extend sincere thanks to those who have helped, and to ask for 
further cooperation and further suggestions. 

Report accepted and the committee instructed to continue its work. 
Committee on Opportunities for Women in Home Economics. Report by 
Dr. Langworthy, chairman, as follows: 

Although the general situation has not changed much during the past year, the whole 
field of opportunities for women trained in home economics is gradually broadening. The 
war brought home economics to the fore and proved that women with such training were ready 
for service when needed. The general groups continue to be: teaching; commercial work, 
which includes the many forms of advertising; technical and administrative work in institu- 
tions; editorial and journalistic; and social service and welfare. The development of voca- 



456 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

tional education in home economics has greatly increased the niunber of supervising and 
teaching positions, and the same is true of extension work. The advance in the teaching 
field is strikingly illustrated by the fact that a home economics expert has been made fuU 
professor on the medical faculty of a university where her knowledge of dietetics and other 
subjects can make a valuable contribution. 

Statistical surveys listing the various types of positions with their salaries made at intervals 
of a few years are a valuable basis from which to judge the growth of home economics as a 
profession. The results of such a survey should form a part of the report of your committee 
at the next annual meeting. 

Report accepted. 

A communication was read from the Woman's Fomidation for Health 
regarding afl&liation with that organization. The secretary was instructed to 
ascertain the financial obligation in connection with such affiliation and report 
at the next meeting of the Council. 

A communication was read from Dr. Minna Denton, recommending that 
the committee on research should be composed of people primarily interested 
in research work, rather than the chairmen of sections, together with the 
chairman of research. Recommendation adopted 

A communication was read from the State Farm Bureau (Michigan) Wool 
Department, asking that the Association use its influence in favor of the virgin 
wool fabric legislation. Voted that this matter be referred to the committees 
on legislation and textiles. 

A communication was read from the National Social Workers' Exchange 
asking that the American Home Economics Association affiliate and pay a 
minimum fee of $10. Voted. 

A communication was read from the League of Women Voters, asking 
the Association to aid in furthering the work on the reduction of armament. 
This matter was deferred for further action. Later referred to Resolutions 
Committee. 

A communication was read from the American Women's Club of Paris, 
aslcing the Association to contribute $5 annually for three years to aid in the 
upkeep of the club house in Paris. Voted to write the Club that the Asso- 
ciation was endeavoring to increase membership and would probably be able 
to consider their request at the next meeting of the Council. 

The question of affiliating with the National Child Health Council was dis- 
cussed and settlement deferred until further information could be obtained. 
Voted to telegraph the secretary for the necessary information. Miss Winslow 
was designated to report at the next meeting of the Council. 

The following nominations were made from the floor, for the Nominating 
Committee; Antoinette Roof, chairman; Ava Milam, Bess M. Rowe, 
Edith Thomas, Mary Matthews. 

Voted that the Committee on Resolutions be appointed by the chair. 
Katherine Blunt, Ada Hunt, Treva Kauflfman, Martha Van Rensselaer, 
and Edna Skinner were appointed. 



1921] COUNCIL MEETINGS 457 

Letters from Frances Stem and Edna White, at present in London, were 
read. Voted that the Association send to Frances Stem, Edith White, Caro- 
line Hunt, Alice Ravenhill, Mrs. Ann Gilchrist Strong of New Zealand, 
Mrs, Alice Norton and Ola Powell letters of good wishes and appreciation. 

Meeting adjourned. 

Report of Council Meeting 
June 29, 10.00 a.m. 

Members present: Mary E. Sweeny, presiding; Dr. Langworthy, Mrs. 
Calvin, Mrs. Bryan, Misses Cooper, Matthews, Winslow, Snow, Blood, Rich- 
ardson, Milam, Weigley, Denton, Thomas, MacLeod, Gearing. 

Meetmg called to order by the chairman. Minutes of the meeting of June 2 7 
read and approved. 

Voted that the regular order of business be dispensed with and the dis- 
cussion of certain important matters be brought before the meeting at once. 

Committee on Executive Secretary. Report of committee appointed to study 
the need and cost of an executive secretary, and to suggest means of 
providing funds for her maintenance, submitted by Louise Stanley, chairman, 
as follows: 

1. The committee recommends that if we are to become a representative national associa- 
tion we must have a paid executive secretary to hold it together. 

Duties of the secretary: 

a. She should help organize local and regional groups and help in the maintenance and 
increase of membership. 

b. She should help m the legislative work. The legislative chairman if she is to do effec- 
tive work must have someone in or near Washington who can be called upon to handle the 
situation at crucial moments. 

c. She should help direct publicity in cooperation with the Press and Publicity Committee. 

d. She should help develop and maintain the professional status of our organization in 
relation to other organizations. She should maintain a friendly relationship with other 
pubUc welfare organizations. 

e. She should help in the development of research, by coordinating lines of research, and 
keeping in touch with possible sources of income for various types of research. 

/. She should help in the development of international relationships, both when we are 
asked to furnish aid to foreign countries and when foreign visitors wish to get in touch with 
home economics work in this country. She should keep in touch with such visitors to see 
that they are so routed through the coimtry that they get a typical picture of the work of the 
Association. 

2. The cost of maintaining the Secretary: Budget of $5000. 

Secretary $3000 

Stenographic help ^200 

Office rent 600 

Traveling expenses ^000 

Total $5800 



458 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

From this can be subtracted $1100 which is contained in the present budget, leaving a 
total of $4700 to be raised. The committee recommends that $5000 be raised annually and 
that this be done on the basis of two years, making a total of $10,000 to be raised. 

3. The following method for raising this amount is suggested: 

a. That we have contributing members from outside the association. That these con- 
tributing members be asked to give a minimum of $100 each. 

b. That we have, within the association, sustaining members. The sustaining members 
may pay from $10 to $50. 

c. That we increase our $2 memberships during the current year by 1000. 

d. That various organizations, particularly the honorary organizations, contribute to this 
fund. It was hoped that this might '^e in addition to the above budget, since the amount 
suggested for travehng expenses did not seem to be suflScient. 

This report was amended to make the minimum salary $3600; stenographic 
help, $1500: traveling expenses, $1400. Subtracting the $1100, this leaves 
$6000 to be raised annually. 

The following general plan for raising the amount was then presented. 

20 contributing members at $100 $2,000 

10 sustaining members at $50 500 

40 sustaining members at $25 1 1 000 

50 sustaining members at $10 500 

1000 new members at $2 2,000 

$6,000 

Report accepted as amended. Voted that the chair appoint a committee to 
canvass the situation and obtain sustaining and contributing members to 
underwrite the budget of the Executive Secretary until January 1, before 
recommendation is made to the Association regarding her employment. The 
chair appointed Mary Matthews, chairman, Mrs Robin, Agnes Harris, 
Louise Stanley, Ava Milam, Edith Thomas, Helen Louise Johnson. 

Committee on means of raising money to cover the deficit shown by the 
treasurer 's statement. Report submitted by Miss MacLeod. The following 
recommendations were made: 

(1) Drive for membership. 

(2) Combining the dues of the Journal and the Association and raising 
the amount to $6. 

(3) Dropping the aflBiliation dues of 25 cents. 

(4) Fixing a definite fiscal year from January 1 to December 31. 
Report considered section by section. (1) accepted; (2), (3), (4) vetoed. 
Committee on Naming of Sections. Report telegraphed by Agnes Fay Mor- 
gan, chairman, as follows: 

Inquiry by committee on naming of sections representative members in all parts of country 
resulted in almost unanimous recommendation of foUo\\'ing nomenclature and number: 
(1) Nutrition, or Foods and Nutrition; (2) Textiles and Clothing; (3) Institution Economics; 
(4) Extension Education, or Extension Home Economics; (5) Home Economics Education, 
or Teaching of Home Economics. 



^921] COUNCIL MEETINGS 459 

It is recommended that the sections organize subdivisions; for example, as foUows: Tex- 
tiles and Clothing into applied art and textiles; Institution Economics into hospital dieteUcs 
and household engineering or household economics; Home Economics Education mto elemen- 
tary, secondary, coUege, teacher training. Opposition is expressed to use of term vocational. 
Detailed report by mail. 

Amended to omit recommendation in regard to subdivisions and to name 
sections as follows: Food and Nutrition, Textiles and Clothing,i Institutional 
Economics, Home Economics Extension, Home Economics Education, Home 
and Child Welfare.^ Accepted as amended. 

A petition for the formation of a section was presented by a group of women 
in business who had held a round table meeting. Moved and seconded that the 
committee be requested to continue as a committee for a year, present a pro- 
gram at the next meeting, and petition again next year for the formation of a 
section. Carried. It was directed that the chairman of the Program Com- 
mittee be notified to this effect. . 

Committee on Committees. Report submitted by Anna Richardson, chair- 
man, as follows: 

The committee was instructed to consider the standing and special committees with a 
view to keepmg only such committees as were actively functioning and with the hope that 
dupUcation would be avoided. It was recommended that the four sections as now orgamzed 
should be: Food and Nutrition, Textiles and Clothing,^ Home Economics Extension, Insti- 
tutional Economics, and in addition two sections be added: Home Ec^^^-^'^^^^ducatxon 
and Home and Child WeKare.^ This latter section should take over the work of the Social 
Work Committee and be broadened to include certain of the problems of thirft and home 
management. The committee recommended, as temporary chairmen. Miss Snow for the 
Home Economics Education Section, and Miss GiUett for the Home and Child Welfare 

^"^JZ'rnal Board: One new member to be named, Mrs. Mary McGowan in place of 
Ruth Wheeler whose term expires at this time. Katherine Fisher was appointed m the 
winter to take the place of Emma Gunther. Other members of the Journal Board remain 

^^^Le^Ztive Committee: Louise Stanley, chairman; Jessie Harris, Jessie Whitacre, Emma 
Winslow, Gertrude Van Hoesen. . 

International Committee on Teaching Home Economics: Helen Atwater, chairman, Edna 
White. Nellie Goldthwaite, Mrs. Ann Gilchrist Strong, Elizabeth KeUy. 

Finance CommitUe: Sarah MacLeod, chairman; S. Agnes Donham, Susie V. Powell, 
Ellen P Dabney, Alba Bales, Mr. H. Gale Turpin. , ci. « 

Cammittee on Time and Place: Faith Lanman, chairman; Helen L, Johnson Blanche Shaffer. 

Program Committee for the summer meeting: Helen Davis, chairman; Florence Hamson, 
Grace Denny, Mrs. Jessamine Chapman WiUiams, Amy Kelly, Inez Bozart. The Program 
Committee for the winter meeting was not suggested, since the exact place of the nieetmg was 
not known to the committee. The secretary reported that it would probably be held m 
New Orleans, and Cleora Helbing was recommended as chairman of the committee, ine 
president was asked to name the other members of the co mmittee. 

1 Changed at business meeting to Textile. 

2 Changed at business meeting to Social Welfare Committee. 



460 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Ellen H. Richards Fund Trustees to take the place of the four whose terms expire January 
1, 1922: Isabel Ely Lord, Emeline Whitcomb, Mary Gearing, Mary VaU. 

Executive Committee: Florence Ward, Alice Blood, Ava Milam, Jenny Snow, Mildred 
Weigley. 

Committee on Interrelations itdth Other Organizations: Emma Winslow, chairman; the editor 
of the JouRNAX, Anna Van Meter, Antoinette Roof, Grace MacLeod, Adelaide Baylor, 
Lydia Roberts. 

Committee on Membership: Grace Frysinger, chairman; Ruth Dickey, Wylle B. McNeal, 
Agnes Craig, Bess Hefflin. 

The following recommendations were made : 

Committees on Educational Rescrch and Research Information be merged into one com- 
mittee known as the Research Committee with Dr. Mina Denton, chairman, and a member 
representing the interests of eaca of the sections, as follows: Grace Denny, Florence Nesbitt, 
Hildegarde Kneeland, Nina B. Crigler, Agnes Fay Morgan, Anna E. Richardson. 

Pen and Press Committee be changed to the Press and Publicity Committee with Harriet 
Mason, chairman; Lilian Tingle, Helen Louise Johnson, Agnes Craig, Gertrude Lane, Marie 
Sellers, Martha Van Rensselaer, Flora Orr, the editor of the Journal. 

Committee on State Supervision and Committee on Vocational Education to be taken 
over by the Home Economics Education Section. 

Committee on Exhibits to be discontinued except as the sections feel that it is desirable 
to have special committees. 

Committee on Regional Scheme was changed to Committee on Regional Organization. 
Mildred Weigley, chairman; Ava Milam, Agnes Ellen Harris, Gladys Branegan, Anna A. 
Kloss, Mary Matthews. 

The Committees on Teaching, on Data Regarding Home Economics Courses, and on the 
Survey of Home Economics Courses to be taken over by the Home Economics Education 
Section, and the work continued as in their judgment seemed wise. 

Committee on Thrift to be taken over by the Home and Child Welfare Section. 

The Committee further recommended that the group of Business and Professional Women 
be given an opportunity to organize into a committee. 

Eight associate editors were recommended, one to represent each section: Day Monroe 
and the Executive Secretary, News; Edith Barber and Mrs. Hazard, Social Welfare; Florence 
Ward, Extension; Katherine Blunt, Foods; Cora Winchell, Education; Ruth O'Brien, 
Textiles; Lucile French, Institution Economics; Alice Blester, Bibliography. 

Report accepted. 
Meeting adjourned. 

Report of Council Meeting 
June 29, 5.00 p.m. 

Members present: Mary E. Sweeny, presiding; Mrs. Calvin, Dr. Lang- 
worthy, Mrs. Bryan, Misses Weigley, Denton, Stanley, Thomas, Matthews, 
Birdseye for Peek, Blood, Blunt. 

Meeting called to order by the chairman. Voted that the reading of the 
minutes of the previous meeting be omitted. 

The International Congress on Eugenics requested that a delegate be sent 
to the second congress. Mrs. Bryan was delegated to represent the Asso- 
ciation at this meeting. 



1921] COUNCIL MEETINGS 461 

The Business and Professional Women requested that a delegate be sent 
to their meeting in Cleveland in July. Amy Kelly was delegated to represent 
the Association at this meeting. 

The secretary read a telegram stating that there are no affiliation dues to 
the Woman's Foundation for Health. Voted that we apply for affiliation. 

Journal Board. Report submitted by Mrs. Bryan, editor, as follows: 

The subscription campaign, as outlined September, 1920, was as follows: 

1. An invitation to subscribe to be sent to a list of about 1500, including home economics 
teachers and supervisors, home demonstration leaders, and other home economics workers. 

2. Invitations to subscribe to be sent to Association members who are not subscribers. 

3. Heads of Home Economics Departments to be asked to inaugurate subscription cam- 
paign in their institutions. 

4. State Home Economics Supervisors to work with teachers. 

5. State Home Demonstration Leaders to work with home demonstration agents. 

6. Letters to be sent to libraries. 

7. Work through state associations as soon as the regional plan is operative. 

All but number 7 have been carried out, but this work will be followed up and developed 
next fall. 

The Journal has been placed on exhibit wherever feasible and some advertising has been 
carried in other magazines. 

The subscription status is as follows: regular subscribers 4886, student 929, total 5815; 
net increase during the year 795. The above figures do not include the 500 student subscrip- 
tions recently received in response to Miss Milam's letters. We wish to express our apprecia- 
tion of Miss Milam's valuable assistance. 

Report accepted. 

Regional Committee report will appear in a later number of the Journal. 

Constitution and by-laws were changed, as suggested, as follows: 

CONSTITUTION 

Article 2 

Section 2. Changed to read: By furthering the recognition of subjects related to the 
home in the curricula of schools and colleges, in extension instruction, and in other state and 
national educational programs. 

Line 6 insert "extension" after "social." 

Article 4 

Section 5. Changed to read: Councilors elected by State Home Economics Associations 
shall serve until the close of the third annual meeting after their Election. 

If at any time there are less than twenty-five state Home Economics Associations, afl&liated 
with the American Home Economics Association, with representative councilors, the number 
of councilors to make up the difference between the number of affiliated State Home Econ- 
omics Associations and twenty-five shall be elected at the next annual meeting of the Am- 
erican Home Economics Association to serve for three years from date of election. 

Section 6. Changed to read : The Council shall consist, etc. 

(2) At least twenty-five councilors, elected by and representative of, affiliated State Home 
Economics Association, or in the event there are not twenty-five affiliated State Home 
Economics Associations the difference in number elected by the American Home Economics 
Association. 



462 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

(3) Regional councilors elected by their regions to serve for three years. 

(6) There shall at all times be at least five councilors at large elected by the American 
Home Economics Association at an annual meeting, and holding oflice for a term of five years 

Section 7. Change to read: "and five councilors, two from its members and three 
regional councilors designated by the Council." 

BY-LAWS 

Section 1 Paragraph 1. Change to read: 

The nominating committee for each annual meeting shall consist of a representative from 
each region of the Association, selected by the members of that region attending the annual 
meeting of the Association, and twr persons who shall not be members of the Council, but 
appointed by the Council. Iij the event that there are no representatives of any one of the 
regions, the president of the Association shall appoint a substitute from those attending the 
annual meeting. This committee shall be selected the first day of the annual meeting, and 
shall have a temporary chairman appointed by the president of the Association to act until 
the committee meets and elects a chairman from its number. 

Article 3 

Section 2. (1) Omit "or other local." 

Add. Each State Association shall send to the National Association a fee of $1.00 for 
each local member. This will make each member of the State Association a member of the 
National Association. In addition the State Association may charge such an amount as is 
considered necessary to carry on the local work of the Association. 

This shall not disqualify State Associations already affiliated under the plan in operation in 
1920-21. They shall be held under the plan of 25 cents per person fee until they canafl&liate 
under $1.00 per person. No new associations shall be afl&liated on the plan of 25 cents per 
person to the National Association but those already affiliated shall be held over until the 
end of fiscal year ending June 30, 1922. 

Add Paragraph 3 as follows: Home economics organizations other than state organizations 
desiring to affiliate with the American Home Economics Association shall include in their 
Constitution the following statements: "The object of this association is the same as that of 
the American Home Economics Association as stated in their constitution. Article II. In addi- 
tion, this association wishes to devote itself more specifically to the problems of Home Econ- 
omics as they develop in its local field. " 

Add to Paragraph 4 as follows: Organizations other than Home Economics Associations 
desiring to afl&Uate with the American Home Economics Association shall pay an annual fee of 
$5.00 to the treasurer of the American Home Economics Association. They shall be entitled 
to receive the proceedings of the association meeting or other material of the association which 
shall be of interest. They shall not be entitled to a representative upon the Council. 

Report of Council Meeting 
June 29, 10.00 p.m. 

Members present: Mary E. Sweeny, presiding; Misses Cooper, Gearing, 
Blood, Weigley, Richardson, Milam, Denton, Stanley, Blunt, Thomas, 
Dr. Langworthy, Mrs. Calvin, Mrs. Bryan. 

Meeting called to order by the chairman. 

General discussion of the per capita dues in the regional organization plan. 
Mildred Weigley , chairman of the Regional Organization Committee, again 



1921] COXJNCIL MEETINGS 463 

presented the plan of the committee, recommending that the states in affiliation 
pay to the national association a sum of money equivalent to 25 cents per 
capita. Edith Thomas discussed the plan and as chairman of the committee 
to consider affiliation with the American Home Economics Association pre- 
sented the following resolution from the Southern Association: 

Resolved, That the Southern Home Economics Association is heartily in favor of adopt- 
ing the general plan of regional organization with the following recommendations: 

1. That a statement be made by the American Home Economics Association of the budget 
necessary to carry out the new program, and that an investigation be made of the amount of 
money that would be brought in from the states by the 25 cents per capita assessment; that this 
information be submitted to the state associations for their next meeting. 

2. That an outline of the new program be given to the state organizations in order to ac- 
quaint them with the proposed activities of the American Home Economics Association. 

3. That delegates shall be sent from the state organizations to the regional conferences and 
from the regional organization to the national conference, these delegates to report back to 
their respective organizations the proceedings of the meetings. 

4. That the meetings of the American Home Economics Association be rotated in the 
respective regions and in as centrally located places as possible. 

5. That the president of the Southern Home Economics Association shall also be regional 
director, that the presidents of the state associations, or their ofl5cial representatives, com- 
prise the nominating committee for the Southern Home Economics Association. Nominations 
shall also be allowed from the floor. 

Moved by Mrs. Calvin, and seconded, to approve of two plans, allowing states 
a choice of one or the other: (1) That the states affiliate on the 25 cents per 
capita basis as outlined by the Regional Organization Committee; or (2) on a 
$2 membership plan, provided the state association wished to affiliate on a 
100 per cent membership basis. 

Miss Richardson moved the amendment that the individual membership 
dues remain at $2 but that a rate of $1 per capita should be made to state 
associations affiliating with the national organization. Seconded. A request 
came from the floor for a budget of next year 's expenses in order to determine 
what the Association fees should be. Motion tabled. A committee to work 
out a statement of expenditures was therefore appointed, as follows: Mildred 
Weigley, Anna Richardson, Louise Stanley, Agnes Ellen Harris, Edith Thomas, 
Ruth Dickey. 

Meeting adjourned. 

Council Meeting 
June 30, 9.00 a.m. 

Members present: Mary E. Sweeny, presiding; all members of the Council 
in attendance at the convention were present. 

The bill from the Suffrage Association was brought before the meeting. 
Voted that this bill should be approved. 



464 THE JOURNAL OP HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Voted that the expenses for stenographic services be covered by the 
Association. 

A statement was made to the effect that members of the Association were 
asked to contribute a sum of $45 to be paid for the additional services rendered 
the Association by the hotel management, but members of the Council felt 
that this was not adequate. Voted that the Association make this $55 instead 
of S45, and that the balance between the amount received from the individual 
subscriptions and the $55 be paid from the Association treasury. 

The president sent a call to the section meetings for members of state organi- 
zations, represented at the nat:onal association meeting, to discuss with the 
Council the per capita assessment from state associations. After discussion, 
the representatives of the states expressed approval of the $1 membership 
plan. The committee appointed to study the budget, in reference to the amount 
of dues, recommended that state associations affiliating with the National 
Association pay $1 per member, and that each member automatically become 
a member of the National Association. Recommendation approved. Send- 
ing of an explanatory letter authorized. 

Miriam Birdseye presented the following resolution from the Textile 
Section: 

Resolved, That the Council of the .\merican Home Economics Association be requested 
to authorize the organization of a Textile Section of the Association on a membership basis, 
such membership to be conditional upon the payment of a membership fee. Active member- 
ship in the Textle Section shall be membership in the American Home Economics Association, 
or in a state or regional Home Economics Association duly affiliated with the National 
Association. 

Resolution approved. A fee of Si as a condition for membership in the 
Textile Section was authorized. 

Upon request of the Social Work Committee, through its chairman, Lucy 
Gillett, it was voted that the Child Welfare Section should not be formed at 
this time and that the Social Work Committee should continue under the 
name of Social Welfare Committee. 

Voted that all chairmen of committees be requested to stay through the 
entire sessions of the national association meeting. 

Voted that the fiscal year of the organization begin July 1 and end June 30, 
instead of January 1 to December 31. 

Voted that the proceedings of the meeting be printed in a special number 
of the Journal, this number, however, to be one of the regular nimibers, and 
that this should take the place of the four quarterly bulletins. Voted that the 
constitution be printed in the Jgtjrnal number containing the proceedings, and 
that reprints be available to state associations at cost. 

The Journal presented a request that associate editors be appointed to 
assist the editor. Approved. 



1921] BUSINESS MEETINGS 465 

Lenna F. Cooper was reappointed secretary and H. Gale Turpin reappointed 
treasurer. 

The time of the next annual meeting was considered. Mrs. Calvin moved 
that the meeting, which is to be held at Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, 
Oregon, begin its meetings on the morning of July 3, 1922. Seconded and, 
carried. Voted to continue the meeting for five days. Voted that the Council 
recommend to the Richards Memorial Fund Trustees that the income of the 
fund be devoted to the securing of eminent speakers for the Association at the 
annual meeting. 

Voted that the Executive Committee be empowered to appoint the execu- 
tive secretary. Carried. 

Meeting adjourned. 

BUSINESS MEETING 
June 30, 3.00 p.m. 

Meeting called to order by Miss Sweeney. Voted to dispense with the 
reading of the minutes of the last meeting, since they had already been printed. 

Minutes of the Council meetings were read and accepted with the correction 
that the executive secretary shall be the associate editor of news, working with 
Day Monroe. Accepted as corrected. 

The president explained that, since the fiscal year is from January to 
January, the treasurer 's report was not read. 

The Journal Board report was submitted by Mrs. Bryan. (See Council 
meeting, page 461.) Report accepted. 

Trustees of the Richards Memorial Fund. Mrs. Calvin read the report from 
Dr. Andrews, the secretary and treasurer. Voted that the report be referred 
back to the secretary of the Fund with a request for more details. 

Finance Committee. Report submitted by Miss MacLeod. (See Council 
meeting, page 455.) Report accepted. 

Committee on Legislation. Report submitted by Louise Stanley, chairman, 
as follows: 

Since February the main effort of the legislative chairman has still been focused on the Fess 
bill. This bill was reintroduced on April 7, 1921, without change. This was in spite of the 
fact that we had asked that the two amendments reported at the last meetmgbe incorporated. 
These will be incorporated before the bill is reported out. 

A total of ten news letters have been prepared, multigraphed, and sent out, approximately 
200 each time. These have been sent to the state chairmen, to the state office of vocational 
education where the state chairman is not connected with the state office, and to other 
interested persons, and to newspapers. A number of the news letters have been sent to 
Washington to individuals and to papers. We have had editorials in support of the Fess 
bill in the Delineator and in the Farm and Home. Thanks for these are due to Miss Van 
Rensselaer and Miss Rowe. We have recently had a request from Good Housekeeping and 
expect to have an article featuring the Fess bill in the September number. 



466 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

The Smoot bill has been reintroduced by Senator Smoot as Senate bill No. 450. We have 
written to Senator Smoot asking what he considers the chances of this bill during the special 
session, but have not yet heard. If the bill has no chance of passage at any special session, it 
may be wise to concentrate our effort on this bill during the regular session. 

The Land Grant Colleges have introduced a new experiment station bill which makes 
permissive the use of experiment station funds for home eocnomics purposes. If this bill is to 
become a law, and the Smoot bill is not, everything possible should be done to have the 
words " Home Economics " inserted in it. 

The Sheppard-Towner bill has not yet been enacted into a law. At the request of the 
Woman's Legislative Committee, a letter has been sent to every member of the national Con- 
gress stating our support of this bill, with the reasons. Replies to this have been variously 
ambiguous and encouraging. It is impossible to tell whether anything is likely to happen to 
this bill during the present session. 

The chairman received an invitation for a representative of the Association to attend the 
hearing on the Frehch-Capper bill. Since we were not supporting this bill, it did not seem 
wise to send a representative. 

In conclusion, while our work may have seemed discouraging, the chairman wishes to 
thank the state representatives of certain states for their cooperation. On the other hand, 
the lack of response from certain states has been discouraging. A question has been raised 
as to the method of handling the news letters. A letter was sent to each state chairman 
asking how she w'shed these to be handled; whether she could multigraph them and send 
them out, whether she could send them out if they were sent to her in quantity, or whether 
she would send us a mailing list. Up to date, only three responses have been received to 
forty-eight letters. 

Report accepted. 

Miss Stanley also presented a report from a sub-committee, Gertrude Van 
Hoesen, chairman, on Publicity for the Fess Home Economics Amendment, 
as follows: 

The American Home Economics .\ssociation has issued to State Legislative Chairmen 
weekly news releases to be placed with them in their state newspapers. This is only a be- 
ginning of the work that should be carried on in the states. 

Every organization endorsing the Fess Amendment should feel the responsibility of the 
educational work of informing the public of the significance of the proposed legislation 
through lectures, newspaper mention, interviews with leading citizens to be published in the 
newspapers; publicity in the official organs, and the distribution of the explanatory folders. 
Here are two instances of such cooperation: Mrs. John C. Ketcham, of the National Grange, 
has undertaken to place a notice in the official organ of the Grange. Mrs. Harry Stemberger, 
Executive Secretary of the Council of Jewish Women, will give publicity to certain releases 
and will distribute 500 folders. 

Through Miss Stanley, Legislative Chairman, A. H. E. A., and through Miss Van Hoesen, 
Washington representative, we have submitted articles to women 's magazines, the labor press, 
foreign language papers, the negro press, educational papers, and farm papers. Within the 
next few months all of these classes of publications will receive a second or a third notice. An 
endeavor should be made to place articles of national interest with the big syndicates. 

Mention or editorials have appeared in the Ladies Home Joiirtial, the Delineator, the 
Farmer's Wife, and the Journal of Home Economics. The Woman's Home Companion and 
the Pictorial Raiew have promised cooperation. Mrs. Miller of the League of Women 
Voters, has given the bill mention in her letter to the Woman Citizen of July 18. 



1921] BUSINESS MEETING 467 

Folders have been issued in bulk to the League of Women Voters, General Federation of 
Women's Clubs, Congress of Mothers and Parent-teachers Association, and others. Letters 
and a few folders were sent to a list of Chautauqua bureaus and lecturers. 

Distinguished endorsement is recommended. We should secure interviews with women of 
national distinction (Mrs. Harding or Miss Boardman, for instance). A syndicate will 
gladly take this material. 

Report accepted. 

Committee on Supervision. Report submitted by Edith Thomas, chairman. 
She said that the committee had undertaken a study of all phases of supervision 
and that there were three types: state, county, and city. Miss Thomas asked 
if the Association desired the full report. Voted that Miss Thomas give as 
much of the report as was profitable at that time. Miss Thomas asked that 
since the committee did not have sufi&cient information on which to base its 
judgment it be allowed to continue. Voted that the report be accepted and 
that the committee be continued. 

Committee on Research Information. Report submitted by Dr. Minna Den- 
ton, chairman, as follows: 

This committee desires to report collection of the following data : 

1. A list of titles of 100 masters ' theses and other research reports from the home economics 
field, 80 per cent of which are hitherto unreported so far as we know. Most of these titles 
represent work completed within the past 3 years. About 20 different institutions are 
represented in the list. This list may be secured on or after September 1, 1921, by writing 
to the chairman. 

2. Twenty specific suggestions have been collected, presenting problems from the home 
economics field, concerning which research work is needed. 

3. A research directory of government laboratories and oflBces located in Washington, D.C., 
has been prepared; it is in index form, and contains about 700 subject matter titles, repre- 
senting 75 different offices or bureaus. A limited number of copies are now available for 
distribution; a larger number will be available probably by October, 1921. 

The committee makes the following recommendations to its successors: 

1. Publication of titles of completed research reports (whether the reports themselves be 
published or unpublished) is desirable. These lists should appear in the Joxjrnal of Home 
Economics if possible. 

2. Publication should be made, from time to time, of lists of research problems so 
definitely stated or outlined that laboratory or field workers in different parts of the country 
may be stimulated to work on them. 

3. There should be stimulation of cooperative research, by arrangement for group confer- 
ences of laboratory or field workers who are already taking part, or who are definitely 
planning to take part in research concerning some particular topic or question. The organiza- 
tion of three such cooperative groups has already been begun within the Science Section. 
Arrangements should be made with the program committee, so that there will be provision 
for conferences between these cooperating research workers at the next aimual meeting of the 
Association; as also, provision for the organization of new groups. 

4. Better facilities are urgently needed for the publication of home economics research 
reports, either in full or in abstract. If of general interest, these reports should appear in 
the Journal of Home Economics if possible; but provision should also be made for suitable 
means of dissemination of research findings which are of interest to research workers them- 
selves but not appropriate for distribution to the general public. 



468 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Report accepted. 

Committee on Vocational Education. The chairman was not present at the 
convention and the committee had held no meeting. The president reminded 
the committee of the ruling that if the chairman is not present the committee 
shall meet, elect a chairman from their number, and report. 

Fen and Press Committee. Report submitted by Helen Atwater, chairman, 
as follows: 

The members of the Pen and Press Committee have come together three times during the 
year: at the time of the Atlantic City meeting in February, at a special meeting called in 
New York in April, and at the annual meeting at Swampscott in June. 

The two principal subjects discussed at these meetings and in the fairly active correspond- 
ence between the chairman and tlie other members have been general magazine and news- 
paper publicity for the Association and for home economics subject matter, and special 
publicity for the meetings of the Association. 

At the April meeting, a hst was drawn up of the more important of the special professional 
magazines, the organs of societies, work of which is akin to home economics, the women's 
magazines, the farm papers, and the general news and literary weeklies, and these were 
apportioned among the members of the committee to try to interest the editors in the 
Association and to secure space for subjects which concern it. Complete reports have not 
been made of the results of the canvass, but the Delineator, the Pictoruil Renew, and the 
Woman's Home Companion are arranging to use material; several of the farm papers have 
expressed their willingness to do so, and several weeklies have asked for material on special 
topics. The organs of associations such as the Girl Scouts, the Campfire Girls, and the 
Community Service have shown considerable interest. Miss Sellers is arranging for a 
series of sLx articles to be published in The American Girl, the magazine of the Girl Scouts. 

Miss Milam, the only member of the 1919—20 committee present at the Colorado Springs 
meeting, secured e.xcellent newspaper publicity for that meeting, and was assisted by a local 
committee appointed by Miss Allison. The Colorado Springs and Denver papers took 
considerable material. In addition 200 — 300 words were sent nightly to the Portland Ore- 
gonian and frequent messages to the .Associated Press. Reports featuring one or two addresses 
were sent to some twenty magazines and weeklies. Miss Milam has agreed to take 
charge of the pubUcity in connection with the meeting at Corvallis next summer. 

Prel im inary notices of the Atlantic City meeting were sent to a similar list of periodicals, 
and an attempt was made to secure advance notices of the program. This effort was not very 
successful because the place and date of the meeting were not fixed long enough in advance to 
get into the monthlies, and the Program Committee could not give us the List of speakers in 
time even for the weeklies. At the invitation of the N. E. K. we used their publicity facilities 
at the time of the meeting, but we did not receive as much mention as we should have liked 
because our news was lost in the mass of material coming from the many meetings held at 
the same time. 

Some of the same difficulties arose in connection wth advance publicity for the present 
meeting. We were able to give out notices of the date and place early enough, but the pro- 
gram was not available in time for use in the monthlies, nor could we even get enough advance 
information to give informal description of its probable contents. The newspaper publicity 
in connection with the meeting itself has been arranged for by Miss Agnes Donham and Mrs. 
Elizabeth Macdonald of Boston and we feel that the Association is very greatly indebted 
to them for securing so much interest and space from several of the important Boston papers 
and the Associated Press. 



1921] BUSINESS MEETING 469 

In connection with both the Atlantic City and the Swampscott meetings, the chairman of 
the Program Committee has done everything in her power to give us early information but 
she can not go faster than those who work with her in building up the program. In behalf 
of next year's chairman as well as of this committee, may we urge upon the section and com- 
mittee chairmen the importance of preparing the program at least three months in advance of 
the meeting. Without this we cannot hope to interest monthly periodicals in our meetings. 

It was voted at Colorado Springs to request each person on a program to send in advance 
an abstract of his speech or paper, and such requests have been made before both of this 
year's meetings. Many of the speakers have been prompt in doing this and so have been of 
real aid to this committee. We must insist, however, that, in order to make successful re- 
ports, we have all abstracts at the date requested. Next time we intend to ask for very 
brief abstracts, not more than 200 words, in which the "high spots" will be brought out, and 
we shall ask the authors to prepare these as if they were to be used verbatim in a newspaper 
write-up. 

Modest as has been the work of the committee during this year, it has taken considerable 
clerical assistance as well as the time and travelling expenses of the committee. The necessary 
copying of material for the newspapers at this meeting we are asking the council to pay for. 
In addition, practically every member has contributed some time from stenographers and 
copyists. We have been glad of this opportunity to help the Association, but we feel it 
should realize that the work of publicity cannot grow as we all wish it to grow unless some 
funds are provided to meet the cost of paper, postage, typewriting, mimeographing, etc. We 
consider $125 a very modest estimate of what the Committee should feel free to spend for 
such purposes, and we shall be glad if the Association can see its way to authorizing us to use 
that amount. 

Report accepted. 

Ava Milam was appointed to take charge of the publicity for the Corvallis 
meeting. 

Gommittee on Exhibits. No report. Miss Hunt, chairman, is abroad. 

Social Work Committee. Report submitted by Lucy Gillett, chairman, as 
follows: 

Those doing nutrition work with social agencies have felt the need of more specialized 
training for the problems they have to meet. These problems are quite different from those 
in teaching. 

IJ !> At a hurriedly called meeting of a few members of the Association at the Atlantic City 
meeting in February, there seemed to be felt a need for a more general discussion of the 
qualifications for the nutrition worker. 

With this in mind a meeting was arranged for the Swampscott Conference to discuss the 
training of the nutrition worker. Flora Rose emphasized the need of special attention to 
methods. In the class room, attention may be compulsory; in social work attention must be 
gained by making the subject alive with actual results. 

In the absence of Miss Sawyer, Dr. Murlin spoke of the need of a better understanding on 
the part of the nutrition worker, the frequency of abnormal conditions, of the medical aspects 
that must be considered, and the need of cooperation with the physician. 

Margery Smith outlined clearly the many pitfalls for the worker who goes into social dietet- 
ics without an understanding of the many problems that are involved in the home as a social 
element. 

The social work committee has been collecting, from those in the field, instances which 
show the need of special training for this work. They all come under the three topics out- 
lined above— methods, social work, and a medical view point. The committee hopes that 
this report may appear in a later number of the Journal. 



470 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Report accepted. 

International Committee on Teaching oj Home Economics. No report. 

Committee on Thrift. No report. 

Committee on Time and Place. The Chair advised that this committee 
had been discharged at Atlantic City, and that the evidence of their excellent 
service was before the Association. 

Program Committee. Report presented informally by Alice Blood, chair- 
man. It was suggested that the program committee be made up of a definite 
personnel representative of the various sections of the Association rather than 
the chairmen of sections; that a local committee should be formed and that it 
have one meeting, long before the program is arranged, to facilitate arrange- 
ments. 

Dr. Langworthy moved that the Association give a rising vote of thanks to 
Dr. Blood and her committee. This was done. 

Committee on Commercial Exhibits. No report. 

Committee on Constantinople Fwid. Discharged at Atlantic City, since the 
fund was raised, and Mrs. Norton now in Constantinople. 

Committee on Textile Cooperation. Discharged at Atlantic City. 

Committee on Data Regarding Home Economics Courses. (See Council 
meeting, page 455.) Report accepted. 

Committee on Teaching. No report. 

Committee on Promoting the Journal. Report included in report of the 
JoLTiNAL Board. 

Committee on the Naming of Sections. (See Council meeting, page 458.) 
Moved and seconded that the report of the committee as amended by the Coun- 
cil be accepted by the Association. Moved and seconded that the report be 
amended from "Textile and Clothing" to read "Textile Section." Carried. 
Report accepted as a whole. 

Committee on Opportunities in Home Economics. Report presented infor- 
mally by Dr. Langworthy, chairman. Opportunities for teaching seem to 
be numerous, judging from the number of requests that come to the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture; opportunities for the application of home economics in a 
commercial way have increased considerably and there is a noticeable develop- 
ment in the institutional management side, illustrated by the group of women 
in hotel work and by the very great financial success of some in cafeteria work. 

It is recommended that the survey of the country by correspondence be 
repeated about once in three to five years, when any differences would be easy 
to recognize. Report accepted. 

Committee on Statidards for the recognition of home economics courses by 
colleges and universities, to develop standards for home economics institutions, 
requested by the A. C. A. Report submitted by Helen Atwater, chairman, 
as follows: 



1921] BUSINESS MEETING 471 

Immediately after this committee was appointed, we began correspondence with the 
officers of the A. C. A. and its committee on admissions. We found that the A. C. A. was 
itself very dissatisfied with the inconsistent position into which it had drifted, and that it 
intended at the approaching biennial meeting in Washington to go over the whole question of 
recognition of institutions. It welcomed the cooperation of the American Home Economics 
Association in settling the question of recognition of institutions giving technical courses in 
home economics, and, judging by the opinion of the chairman of its committee, had a more 
liberal point of view than is sometimes supposed. We were asked to wait until the biennial 
meeting before deciding on the points on which the cooperation should be planned. Owing to 
a printers' strike, neither the committee reports from A. C. A. biennial nor its revised consti- 
tution are yet ready for distribution and consequently your committee has made little prog- 
ress in that direction. • 

In the meanwhile we have learned that the American Council for Education at its May 
meeting started an effort to formulate "common statements of standards of higher educational 
institutions of the whole country," and hopes that such a common statement can be adopted 
within two years. The success of this effort seems assured, and in view of it, it would seem 
unwise for the American Home Economics Association to attempt independently to set up 
any standards. Your committee, however, recommends that our Association investigate the 
present standards of the more important accrediting agencies as they apply to home economics 
courses, and make representations to these agencies and to the American Council for Education 
regarding what seem to us just standards for home economics work, and thus endeavor to 
secure more satisfactory and consistent rulings on the recognition of such work. 

Report accepted. 

Committee to Consider the Executive Secretary. (See Council meeting, 
page 457.) Moved and seconded that report be accepted. An amendment to 
increase the budget from $6000 to $10,000 was offered. An amendment to 
the amendment that the budget be raised from S6000 to S8000 was proposed. 
Amendment to the amendment lost. The amendment to raise the budget 
from S6000 to $10,000 lost. Report accepted. 

Pledge Fund Committee. Report submitted by Mary L. Matthews, chair- 
man, as follows: 

The committee appointed to raise funds, by securing pledges from those in attendance at 
the meeting, presented the plan at the evening session on Wednesday and a total sum in 
pledges of $2630 was raised. These pledges included: 7 contributing members, 4 sustaining 
members at $50, 17 sustaining members at $25, 6 sustaining members at S20, 2 sustaining 
members at $15, 50 sustaining members at $10, 66 contributions of $5 each and 10 others 
less than $5. 

The need for an Executive Secretary has been felt by the Association for some time, since, 
with a woman available who could give all her time to organization work and other duties 
which develop with such an office, it would be possible to put the Association on a more 
business-like basis. 

The Association needs members, not only those who will pay their dues but those who will 
actively assist in making the organization a bigger and better working group. 

WUl you not send in (1) your pledge or contribution to the Executive Secretar>' Fund and 
(2) new memberships secured in your locality? 

Report accepted. 

Nominating Committee. Report submitted by Antoinnette Roof, chair- 
man, as follows: 



472 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

List of candidates for officers and councilors: President, Mary E. Sweeny, Michigan 
Agricultural College; Vice President, Dr. Katharine Blunt, University of Chicago. Council 
members: Jessie WTiitacre, Utah Agricultural College; C. F. Lang^vorthy, Washington, D. C; 
Neale S. Knowles, Iowa State College; Faith R. Lanman, Ohio State University; Margaret 
Sawyer, American Red Cross, Washington. 

Moved by Ruth Dickey that the secretary be instructed to cast a unanimous 
ballot for the ofl5cers named by the Nominating Committee. Carried. 

Committee on Resolutions. Report submitted by Dr. Katharine Blunt, 
chairman, and considered section by section, as follows: 

1. Resolved, That the American Home Economics Association request the North Central 
Association of Science and Mathematics Teachers to take action requiring of all new home 
economics teachers in their high schools the same standards of education as they require of 
other high school teachers. Adopted. 

2. Whereas, Reports from the states indicate a definite minimum need of approximately 
three hundred home economics extension workers during the year 1922, with a probably in- 
creased demand during the coming months, and a general outlook for even greater increase 
within the next five years; therefore be it 

Resolved, That the American Home Economics Association bring to the attention of all 
"universities and colleges (land grant and otherwise) the status and needs of home economics 
extension work as [^resented in the report of the Committee on Needs and Maintaining 
Home Economics Ex.ension work. Adopted. 

3. Resolved, That we urge upon Congress, and individually upon our respective representa- 
tives, the favorable consideration of such legislation as will assure the continued growth, 
operation, and control of a permanent chemical dye industry in the United States of America. 
And be it further resolved that copies of this resolution be immediately sent to the Ways 
and Means Committee of the House of Representatives and the Finance Committee of the 
United States Senate. Adopted. 

4. Whereas, Research in home economics is important for the further development of 
home economics work, and whereas there is need of financial aid for research in the various 
institutions of the country; be it 

Resolved, That we express to the Honorable Reed Smoot our appreciation of the introduc- 
tion of the Senate Bill 450 which provides funds for the development of home economics 
3-esearch, and further urge the Senate Committee on Agriculture to consider this bill favorably 
and report it out as soon as possible. We further pledge our full support to this bill. Adopted. 

5. Whereas, The American Home Economics Association is interested in the further 
development of home economics education in the public schools of the United States, and 
whereas, we realize the value of the stimulus of federal aid in the extension of the work and 
the development of standards in the States; therefore be it 

Resolved, That the American Home Economics Association reaffirm its endorsement of 
the Fess Home Economics bill and urge that the members of the Education Committee report 
this bill favorably and that the repubhcan steering committee be asked to give it a place on 
the calendar of the present session, and that copy of this resolution be sent to all State Home 
Economics Associations and to members of the Education Committee of the House. Adopted. 

6. Whereas, We recognize the necessity for measures for the protection of child and mater- 
nal health, and whereas, we feel that such a program is closely related to the development of 
any sound program of home economics; be it 

Resolved, That we reaffirm our endorsement of the Sheppard-To^vner bill, and urge that 
action be taken during the present session of Congress. Adopted. 

7. Whereas, The National Research Council has established a National Institution of 
Nutrition with a research program including investigation of the Food Requirements of 



1921] BUSINESS MEETING 473 

Children of Different Ages; Selection of Food for Children; Nutrition in Relation to Indus- 
trial Health and Efficiency; Distribution of Vitamines and Their Behavior under Domestic 
and Commerical Treatments of Foods; and whereas, this research program is of vital impor- 
tance to all home economics workers; therefore be it 

Resolved, That the Axnerican Home Economics Association heartily endorse this National 
Institute of Nutrition and offer it full support. Adopted. 

8. Whereas, There are in the United States 4,000,000 children between four and six 
years of age who are losing two years of schooling because kindergartens have not yet been 
provided for them, and whereas, our children are entitled to the best possible educational 
equipment to prepare them for the heavy burdens and responsibilities which will be theirs in 
the near future, and whereas, criminologists estimate that $3,500,000 a day is being spent 
upon our criminal classes, and whereas, the kindergarten has demonstrated its value as a 
potent means of reducing crime as well as an effective agency for promoting Americanization, 
and increasing general intelligence and efficiency; therefore be it 

Resolved, That the American Home Economics Association exert every possible effort to 
promote the extension of kindergarten education during the coming year. Adopted. 

9. Whereas, The American Home Economics Association is strongly interested in 
development and maintenance of world peace, and whereas, international agreement on 
disarmament is an essential step toward such peace; therefore be it 

Resolved, That the American Home Economics Association respectfully request the Presi- 
dent of the United States to call a conference with Great Britain and Japan upon the subject 
of reducing naval armaments. Tabled. 

10. Whereas, Much of the success of the fourteenth Annual Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association is due to the generous hospitality and cordial cooperation of 
the management of the New Ocean House; be it 

Resolved, That the secretary be requested to send to Mr. C. E. Kennedy and his staff a 
letter of appreciation of the many courtesies extended, which have contributed to the comfort 
and enjoyment of the members, and have facilitated the success of the meetings. Adopted. 

11. Whereas, The committees in charge of arrangement for the Fourteenth Annual 
meeting of the American Home Economics Association have contributed largely to the 
success of the conference; be it 

Resolved, That the gratitude of the Association be extended to Dr. Alice Blood, Chairman 
of the Program Committee for her efforts which have resulted in a program which has been 
enjoyable and beneficial; Ula Dow, in charge of arrangement for time and place of the meeting, 
for the selection of headquarters with such satisfactory living conditions and attractive 
environment; Jermie Kendrick, chairman, together with all members of the Hospitality 
Committee who so ably managed the professional trips and supplied helpful local information 
to the visiting guests; Agnes Donham, chairman of Local Publicity, and Mrs. Elizabeth 
MacDonald and other members of the committee whose indefatigable services have resulted 
in effective publicity; Mrs. Melville Eastham for arranging the picnic and for the housing 
of those not at the hotel; to Mr. Day of the Lyim Chamber of Commerce for generous help 
in a secretarial emergency. Adopted. 

Section Reports 

Textile Section. Report submitted by Miriam Birdseye for Miss Peek, 
chairman, as follows: 

The Textile Section is to include textiles, clothing, design, household furnishing; research, 
extension, commercial, and industrial work in these subjects. It has set as a goal for mem- 
bership 500 members. It has 24 paid memberships and has elected honorary members. It 
has adopted the policy of the strong national membership, with the idea of encouraging the 



474 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

establishment of regional, state, and local working units of people who will adopt a local 
program of work in sympathy with the national program of work. The officers elected are: 
Agnes Craig, Springfield, Mass., chairman; Grace Denny, vice-chairman; Miss Grizzell, 
secretary; Miss Dobson, treasurer. 

Report accepted. 

Science Section. Report submitted by Winifred Moses, as follows: 

Meeting was called to order by the Chairman, Dr. Minna Denton at 9.30 o'clock, June 
30, 1921. The Secretary was not present; minutes of the last meeting were not read. The 
first three papers, namely: Developirent of Research Problems in the Field of Experimental 
Cookery— Various Methods of Approach; An Account of the Specific Research Problems; 
The Organization and Possibilities of Cooperative Research in Colleges, were followed by a 
brief discussion. The concensus of opinion seemed to be that a more definite effort should 
be made to collect and make available for distribution among research workers, the mass of 
material that has already been written on home economics subjects. 

The next two papers, The Basal Metabolism of Women and Underweight Children, 
and Emulsification in IMayonnaise, were followed by discussion which led to the formation of 
a committee, with Professor Mark as chairman, to pursue further investigational work on 
the problem of emulsification in mayonnaise, the problem to be assigned by Professor Mark. 
The following members of the section volunteered to work on these problems: Mabel Well- 
man, Mildred Weig'ey, Evelyn Halliday, Mabel McGinnis, Day ilonroe, Miss Eickleberger, 
Winifred Closes. 

A short business meeting followed. Miss WTiittaker, Chairman of the Nominating Com- 
mittee, moved that Katherine Jensen of the University of Idaho be appointed Chairman and 
Mary Ann Garber of Montana, Secretary, of the Section of Foods and Nutrition for the year 
1921 — 22. Seconded and carried. Dr. Katharine Blunt read the report of the committee on 
Research Cooperation. The work done by this committee included the collection of material, 
sending out of questionnaires, and follow up letters. Reports were obtained from the 
Pacific, the Central, the West Central, and the Canadian Sections. No reports from the 
Southern and Eastern Sections. Voted that this committee be continued as a sub-committee 
in the Section of Foods and Nutrition. 

The business meeting was followed by a discussion of the factors that may affect the basal 
met-abolism in imderweight children of school age, and the remainder of the program as 
planned. 

Report accepted. 

Institutional Section. Report presented informally by Miss Cooper. The 
program of the section was presented as arranged, Mary Lindsley presiding. 
The officers elected are: Efl&e Raitt, University of Washington, Seattle, chair- 
man; Miss Failyer of the Government Hotels, Washington, D. C, secretary. 
Report accepted. 

Extension Section. Report submitted by Myrtle Cole, as follows: 

The meeting was called to order by Madge Reese, acting as chairman in place of 
Ola Powell. Opening address by the Chairman. Minutes of the last meeting were read 
and approved. The chairman then announced that in order to save time the business meeting 
and program would be combined. Program presented as arranged, except that in the absence 
of Miss Neale, Mr. O. B. Martin told of the growth of home demonstration work, Margaret 
Whittemore took up the discussion of "Plans for the Future" and told of varying conditions 
in Kentucky, and Agnes Harris spoke briefly of the spirit of cooperation which marks the work 
of home demonstration agents. 



1921] EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING 475 

Committee on Training and Maintenance of Home Demonstration Agents Report pre- 
sented by Grace Frysinger, Office of Extension North and West, chairman. Copies were 
given to those present and are available for others interested in the material contained. Mrs. 
McKimmon moved the acceptance of the report. Seconded. Miss Sayles advocated four 
years special tra-ning instead of two years, as recommended by the committee. Mrs. 
McKimmon, urging recognition of the contributions made by exceptional people without the 
required technical training, advocated the two year requirement. Miss Karris moved an 
amendment for four years technical training. Seconded and carried. Report of the com- 
mittee as amended accepted. 

Nominating Committee, Amy Kelly, chairman, presented the following nominations: 

For Chairman of Extension Education Section, Mrs. Rena Maycock, State Home Demon- 
stration Leader, Logan, Utah; for Secretary, Frances Brown, State Home Demonstration 
Agent of Oklahoma. Report unanimously approved. 

Committee on Training and Maintenance of Home Demonstration Agents contnued with 
Miss Frysinger as Chairman. This committee instructed to act as Committee on Resolutions. 
Meeting adjourned. 

Report accepted. 

Dr. Langw'orthy moved that the secretary be instructed to send a telegram 
to Mrs. Dewey expressing the love and interest of this Association. Seconded 
and carried. 

Meeting adjourned. 

Meeting of the Executive Committee 
June 30, 8 p.m. 
Members present: Mary Sweeny, presiding; Dr. C. F. Langworthy, 
Dr. Katharine Blunt, Dr. Alice Blood, Mrs. Bryan, Misses Weigley, Milam 

Cooper. 

Meeting was called to order by the chairman, to discuss the selection of an 
executive secretary. Moved by Ava Milam, and seconded, that Helen At- 
water of the Office of the Home Economics, Washington, D. C, be invited to 
become the executive secretary. Carried. Secretary instructed to write Miss 
Atwater. Suggested that the matter of first importance, and one of the duties 
of the new executive secretary, should be the establishing of the Regional 
Organization and that in order to accomplish this she should be largely at the 
disposal of the Regional Committee, for the first part of the year at least. The 
time of assuming the duties of the office of executive secretary was left to the 
Executive Committee, to be determined later. The location of the Association 
office was left to the Executve Committee. 

Ruth O'Brien was appointed associate editor on Textiles. Due considera- 
tion was given to a request from the Textile Section that at the next program 
one entire general meeting be devoted to a textile program. The Executive 
Committee, however, felt that, in the experience of former meetings, this would 
be unwise, but voted to devote one general meeting to textiles with the exception 
of one number, which is to be of general interest. Voted that the Textile Sec- 
tion be allowed to have the two sectional meetings as per their request. 



476 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Secretary was instructed to write Mr. J. W. Crabtree, secretary of the 
N. E. A., regarding the possibility of holding a meeting of the Americn Home 
Economics Association at the time of the winter meeting of the Division of 
Superintendence. 

Meeting adjourned. 



1921] CONSTITUTION 477 



CONSTITUTION OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

Revised June 30, 1921 
Article I 

NAME 

The name of this organization shall be the American Home Economics Association. 

Article II 

OBJECT 

1. The object of this Association shall be to improve the conditions of living in the home, 
the institutional household, and the community. 

2. Specifically the Association shall aim to advance its purpose: by the study of problems 
connected with the household; by furthering the recognition of subjects related \o the home 
in the curricula of schools and colleges, and in extension instruction and in other state and 
national educational programs; by securing the establishment and standardization of pro- 
fessional instruction for teachers, and for home, institutional, social, extension, and municipal 
workers; by encouraging and aiding investigations and research in universities and through 
State and Federal governments; by publications, professional and popular, and by meetings 
local and national, that knowledge may be increased, and especially that public opinion may 
be guided and advancement made secure by legislative enactment. 

Article III 

MEMBERSHIP 

AD who are interested in home problems are eligible to membership in the Association. 

Article IV 

OFFICERS 

1. The officers shall consist of a president, three vice-presidents, a secretary, a treasurer, a 
council, and an executive committee. 

2. The president shall be elected by the members of the Association present at the annual 
meeting, and shall serve until the close of the annual meeting at which a successor is elected. 
Only a member of the Council or one who has served on the CoimcU shall be eUgible for this 
office. 

3. One vice-president to serve for three years shall be elected by the Association at each 
annual meeting, and shall serve until the close of the annual meeting at which a successor is 
elected. 

4. A secretary and a treasurer shall be appointed by the Council at the time of the annual 
meeting, and shall serve until the close of the annual meeting at which successors are 
appointed. The business editor of the Journal shall act as office secretary and shall be 
ex-officio member of the Council. 

5. Councilors elected by State Home Economics Associations shall serve until the close 
of the third annual meeting after their election. 



478 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

If at any time there are less than twenty-five State Home Economics Associations afl&liated 
with the American Home Economics Association with representative councilors, the number of 
councilors to make up the difference between the number of affiliated State Home Economics 
Associations and twenty five shall be elected at the next annual meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association to serve for three years from date of election. 

6. The Council shall consist of the following classes of members: (1) the president, the 
three vice presidents, the secretary, the office secretary and the treasurer ex-officio; (2) at 
least twenty five councilors, elected by and representative of afl&liated State Home Economics 
Associations, or in the event there are not twenty-five affiliated State Home Economics 
Association; the difference in number elected by the American Home Economics Association; 
(3) regional councilors elected by the'- regions to serve for three years; (4) the chairman of 
each section of the Association; and i,5) the editor of the Journal of the Association; (6) 
There shall at all fmes be at Icust five councilors at large elected by the American Home 
Economics Association at an annual meeting and holding office for a term of five years. 

7. The executive committee shall consist of the president, the three vice presidents, the 
secretary, the treasurer, the editor of the Journal and the office secretary, ex-officio, and five 
councilors, two from its members and three regional councilors designated by the Council; 
and the members shall serve until the close of the annual meeting following their selection. 

Article V 

MEETINGS 

There shall be an annual meeting of the Association at such time and place as the 
Council shall determine, but such meeting of the Association shall not be called so as 
to terminate the tenure of any office filled under Article IV oftener than twice in any calendar 
year, or three times in any two calendar years, or less often than once in any nineteen months 
and twice in any thirty-one months. 

Article VI 

SECTIONS OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

1. Sections may be organized on the approval of the Council. Each section shall have 
its officers, consisting of a chairman, a secretary, a treasurer, and such other officers and 
committees as the section shall from time to time authorize. Each section shall have control 
of any funds that it may raise independent of membership dues in the Association, but these 
funds shall be deposited in the Association treasury and drawn upon by the section. An 
aimual report of the work of the section, which shall include a statement of receipts and ex- 
penditures, shall be made to the Association. 

2. Sections shall be represented on the Council of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion by their chairmen. 

3. The Council shall provide opportunity on the program of the aimual meeting for section 
meetings, shall print in its pubUcations reports of the proceedings of sections, and shall provide, 
from the funds of the Association, such appropriations towards the work of the sections, as 
the By-laws may require, and the funds may permit. 

Article VII 

JOURNAL 

The Association shall issue a professional journal of which the title, the copyrights, and 
the good will shall be vested in the Association. 



1921] CONSTITUTION 479 



Article VIII 



AMENDMENTS 



This constitution may be amended by a vote of two-thirds of the members present at any 
annual meeting, provided that notice of the proposed amendment be given in due form at the 
preceding annual meeting or by mail to all members one month previous to the annual 
meeting at which it is to be voted on. 

BY-LAWS 

Article I 

ELECTIONS 

1. The nominating committee for each annual meeting shall consist of a representative 
from each region of the Association, selected by the members of that region attending the 
annual meeting of the Association, and two persons who shall not be members of the Council, 
but appointed by the Council. In the event that there are no representatives of anyone of the 
regions the president of the Association shall appoint a substitute from those attending the 
annual meeting. This committee shall be selected the first day of the annual meetmg, and 
shall have a temporary chairman, appointed by the president of the Association, to act until 
the committee meets and elects a chairman from its number. 

Such committee shall present at least one nomination for each elected office publicly to the 
Association at least twenty-four hours before the election. Ballots shall be provided, with one 
blank space for each office, and any name written in this space on a ballot cast shall be counted 
as a vote. 

2. Elections shall be by majority of votes cast. 

Article II 

DUTIES OF OFFICERS 

Sec I. The president, the vice-presidents, the secretary, and the treasurer, shall have the 
duties usually pertaining to their offices. The president shall be chairman of the Council 
and shall appoint committees as directed by the Council or the Association. 

Sec. II. (1) The treasurer shall submit annual reports of receipts and expenditures, with 
vouchers, but money shall be paid only on the order of the chairman of the finance committee 

(2) The secretary shall be responsible for the current records of the Association, and 
shall on approval of the executive committee carry out plans for increasing the membership, 
and strengthening the work of the Association. 

(3) The office secretary's duty shall be to keep all records and attend to the business 
concerning them, to act as guardian of the Association records, and to assist the secretary 
in any other way designated by the latter. 

Sec. III. (1) The Council shall hold such meetings as the president may call, shall meet one 
day before the annual meeting and shall continue in session as necessary thereafter. 

(2) It shall manage the business of the Association and shall administer the prop- 
erty of the Association. It shall elect the secretary and treasurer of the Association and 
shall appoint committees. It shall fill such vacancies in office as may occur between annual 
meetings. 

(3) It shall elect from its membership the five members who, with the president, 
vice-presidents, secretary, office secretary, and treasurer form the executive committee. 

(4) It may fill for the year any vacancies which may occur in its membership. 

(5) It shall transact business by correspondence between meetings, and the secretary 
shall send minutes of all meetings to all members. 

(6) Ten members shall constitute a quorum. 



480 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Sec. IV. (1) The executive comir ittee shall perform such duties as shall be del^ated to 
it by the Council. 

(2) A meeting of this committee may be called at any time by the president of the Asso- 
ciation and shall be called upon the request of any three members of the committee. 

(3) Four members shall consititute a quorum. 

AnncLE in 

MEMBERSHIP 

Sec. I. Anyone may become a member upon payment of the necessary dues. Members 
shall be of four classes: 

(1) Active— who shall pav dues of two dollars, shall receive all bulletins, and shall 
have voting privileges; 

(2) Life — who have made payment of fifty dollars; 

(3) Patron— who have contributed one thousand dollars; 

(4) Honorary— whom the Association has honored for exceptional service in any lines 
of work for which the Association stands. 

Sec. II. Affiliated Societies. 

(1) State Home Economics organizations aflSliating with the American Home Economics 
Association shall include in their constitution the following statements: "The object of this 
organization is the same as that of the American Home Economics Association, as stated in 
its constitution Art'cle II. In addition, this association wishes to devote itself more specifically 
to the problems of Home Economics as they develop in its local field. " Such afl&liated socie- 
ties must have within their own membership at least ten members of the American Home 
Economics Association. Each such association is entitled to a representative on the Council, 
chosen by the association, from members of the American Home Economics Association. 

Each State Association shall send to the National Association a fee of $1 for each local 
member. This will make each member of the State Association a member of the National 
Association. In addition the State Association may charge such an amount as is considered 
necessary to carr>' on the local work of the Association. 

This shall not disqualify State Associations already affiliated under the plan in operation 
in 1920-21. They shall be held under plan of 25 cents per person fee until they can afl&liate 
under $1 per person. No new associations shall be aSiliated on the plan of 25 cents per person 
to National Association but those akeady affiliated shall be held over until end of fiscal year 
ending June 30, 1922. 

(2) Home Economics organizations other than State Organizations desiring to affiliate 
with the American Home Economics Association shall include in their Constitution the 
following statements: "The object of this association is the same as that of the American 
Home Economics Association as stated in their Constitution, Article II. In addition, 
this association wishes to devote itself more specifically to the problems of Home Economics 
as they develop in its local field. " 

(3) Organizations other than Home Economics Associations desiring to affiliate with the 
American Home Economics Association shall pay an annual fee of $5 to the treasurer of the 
American Home Economics Association. They shall be entitled to receive the proceedings of 
the association meeting or other material of the association which shall be of interest. They 
shall not be entitled to a representative upon the Council. 

Article IV 

I. The Association shall be organized by regions comprising groups of states. The 
states shall be divided into the following regions: (1) Eastern; (2) Southern; (3) Central; 
(4) West Central; (5) Pacific; (6) Canadian. 



1921] CONSTITUTION 481 

The grouping of states within these regions and any changes in these groupings shall be 
determined by the Council. 

The states grouped within the regions shall be as follows until such time as it will seem 
advisable for purposes of more effective work, to alter the grouping of these states: 

1. Eastern: Six New England states and New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Dela- 
ware. 

2. Southern: Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, 
Mississippi, Arkansas, Tennessee, Louisiana, Texas, Maryland, District of Columbia. 

3. Central: West Virginia, Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, 
Missouri, Iowa, Kentucky. 

4. West Central: Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Mon- 
tana, Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico. 

5. Pacific: Arizona, Utah, Nevada, Idaho, Oregon, Washington, California. 

6. Canadian. 

II. Each region shall have an officer known as "regional councilor, " to be elected by the 
state presidents when three-fourths of the states in regions are organized. Before that time 
regional councilors are to be appointed bj^ the Council of the American Home Economics 
Association. 

The duties of the regional councilor shall be to develop when possible state organizations 
within the above regions; and to assume responsibility for building up and furthering the 
work of the American Home Economics Association in the aforesaid regions. 

Article V 

COMMITTEES 

1. A finance committee, an editorial board, and other necessary standing committees 
shall be appointed by the Council and each standing committee shall perform any work in its 
field that may be assigned to it by the Council or executive committee. Each standing com- 
mittee shall report at the annual meeting, or from time to time, as seems advisable. At each 
annual meeting the Council shall review all committees, and shall discharge, reappoint, or 
change them. 

2. The finance committee shall present to the executive committee by Dec. 1st of each 
year, a budget for the next fiscal year (calendar) and on approval of the executive committee 
shall authorize the treasurer to make payment under the budget. It shall receive duplicates 
of all treasurer's reports and be ready at any time to assist the treasurer or the executive com- 
mittee. Duplicates of all minutes shall be furnished the treasurer, who shall be ex-ofl5cio a 
member of the committee. 

3. The editorial board shall be responsible for the conduct of the Journal, shall present a 
budget for the Journal to the executive committee after approval by the finance committee, 
shall be responsible for carrying out the budget as approved, shall recommend appointment or 
reappointment of editor for each fiscal year, at least three months in advance of its beginning, 
and shall have authority to engage all other members of the Jouics.a.l staff. It shall report 
annually to both the executive committee and the Association. 

Article \I 
sections 

1. As a means of carrying out Article VI of the constitution, the Association shall publish 
in its journal, for the sections, such reports, including papers or discussfons, of section meetings 
as the executive committee of such sections shall request; provided no section shall be granted, 
except by vote of the editorial board, space in the journal out of proportion to the importance 
of its work and the size of its membership. 



482 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

2. \\'hen a section meeting is held independent!}' of the meetings of the Association, the 
treasurer of the section may collect, for the treasurer of the Association, the annual dues and 
contributions of members attending the meetings of such section and such collections shall 
be reported to the treasurer of the Association and transmitted to him within one week 
from the close of such section meetings. 

3. Sections shall confine their voting membership to members of the Association, but 
executive committees of sections may provide special assessments and registration fees as 
requirements for enrollment and attendance at section meetings. The Association and sec- 
tions shall cooperate financially for mutual advantage, each so far as possible assisting the 
other in furthering the interests of both. 

Article XII 

amendments 

These by-laws may be amended by a vote of two-thirds of the members present at any 
meeting, provided that notice of the proposed amendment be given in due form at least one 
month in advance. 

Article VHI 

Business shall be conducted according to Roberts ' Rules of Order. 



Vol. XIII, No. 10 October, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mary de Garmo Bryan, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Amy Daniels Ruth Wheeler Katharine Fisher 

Associate Editors 

Day Monroe and the Executive Secretary, News 

Edith Barber and Mrs. Hazzard, Social Welfare 

Florence V\ ard, Extension 

Katharine Blunt, Foods 

Cora Winchell, Education 

Ruth O'Brien, Textiles 

Henrietta French, Institution Economics 

Alice Biester, Bibliography 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Informal Tests IN Teaching Textiles AND Clothing . Mahel Barbara Trilling and Adah Hess 483 

An Experiment in Teaching Health Velma Phillips 489 

New York Nutrition Council 492 

Studies on the Effect of Storage upon the Keeping Quality of Certain Vegetables 

Canned by the One Period Cold Pack Method 

Alice Biester, Mildred Weigley, and Winifred Case Knapp 494 

A Practical Problem ln Dletetics Martha Koehne 501 

A Plea for American Cookery and Home Dishes 506 

For the Homemaker 

The Roman Kitchen Cornelia G. Harcum 507 

The Syracuse Home Bureau Edith M. Barber 512 

Editorial 514 

The Open FoRu-ii 518 

Books and Literature 521 

News from the Field 527 



The Jouxnal op Home Economics is published monthly by the .American Home Economics Association 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by New York Draft, Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. iCotice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition <o the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The JotTRNAL of Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg & Co., Chicago; Hochschild, Kohn & Co., I^altimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 




Another 
Mystery Cake 

Can You Name It ? 

'T^HE first Royal Mystery Cake Contest created a countrywide sensation. 
■*- Here is another cake even more wonderful. W^ho can give it a name 
that will do justice to its unusual qualities? 

This cake can be made just right only ■with Royal 
Baking Powder. "Will you make it and name it? 

$500 For The Best Names 

For the name selected as best, we will pay $250. For the second, third, fourth, and fifth choice, \ve will 
pay $10,1, $75, $5o_ and $/5 respectively. Anyone may enter the contest, but only one name from each 
person will be considered. All names must be received by December 
]5th. In case of ties, the full amount of the prize will be given to each 
tying contestant. Do not send your cake. Simply send the name you 
suggest \vith your own name and address, to the 

ROYAL BAKING PO"WDER CO., 158 William Street, New York 



HOW TO MAKE IT 

, Use level measurements for all materials 

]i cup Hhortuning 4 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder 

1 Vi cups sugar 1 cup milk Grated rind of '/, oranite 

1 egg and 1 yolk 2 '4 cups flour '^ teaspoon salt 

IJi squares (IJ^ozs.) of unsweetened chocolate (melted) 

Cream shorteninpt. add suiiar and grratcd orange rind. Add beaten egg yolks. 

Sift toirutlur flour, salt and Koyal Baking Powder and add alternately with 

the milii; lastly fold in one be:iten egg white. Divide batter into two parts. To 

one part add the chocolate. I'ut by tablespoonful.s. alternating dark and light 

batter, into three greased layer cake pans. Bake in moderate oven 20 min. 

FILUNG AND ICING 

3 tablespoons melted butter 3 .squares (3 ozs.) unsweetened chocolate 
3 cups confectioner's sugar 2 tablespoons orange juice 1 egg white 
Grated rind of Jf orange and pulp of 1 orange 
Put butter, sugar, orange juice and rind into bowl. Cut pulp from orange, re- 
^^^ raovmg skin and seeds, and add. Beat all together until smooth, p'old in 
^~^v^ beaten egg white. Spread this icing on layer used for top of cake 

While icing is soft sprinkle with unsweetened chocolate shaved 
in fine pieces with sharp knife (use!isquare). To remaining 
icing aild 2'i squares unsweetened chocolate which has 
■^^ b--en melted. Spread this thickly between layers and 

on bides of cake. 




In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIII OCTOBER, 1921 No. 10 

INFORMAL TESTS IN TEACHING TEXTILES AND CLOTHING 

MABEL BARBARA TRILLING AND ADAH HESS 
The University of Chicago 

It is now generally recognized that standardized tests have brought 
about great improvement in many subjects of the curriculum. A 
limited number of such tests have been constructed in home economics, 
but, thus far, none of these have been standardized. The subjects 
that have clearly defined their aims or purposes — arithmetic, reading, 
spelling, and writing, have developed standardized tests which may be 
used throughout the country. Home economics, in common with 
geography, history, civics, and science, is still vague in its purposes, 
and really has no well defined objectives. The grade in which the 
work is begun, the subject matter taught, the method of teaching, and 
the standards of attainment have varied with the locaHty, the prepara- 
tion of the instructor, and the purpose for teaching. It is easily seen, 
therefore, that to give standardized tests to large groups of students, 
in the various school systems, requires a degree of organization that 
does not at present exist in the home economics field. 

We are quite in agreement with the teachers of home economics who 
feel that they do not want to standardize their work, if by standardiza- 
tion one means ignoring the needs of the individual student, or teaching 
material with no regard for local interests. We believe, however, 
that in all communities and in all situations there are certain fundamen- 
tal facts, certain important principles, certain abilities that should be 
developed, certain bodies of knowledge that must be learned, which are 
common to all textile and clothing teaching. These, we feel, should be 
stated in no uncertain terms before attempting to formulate the daily 
recitation, the weekly or monthly test, or the course of study. 

483 



484 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

After we have clearly defined the objectives for teacliing textiles and 
clothing, it then becomes necessary to ascertain to what degree the 
pupils have mastered this information. Since at present we have no 
standardized tests in the home economics field, and since some time 
must elapse before any of the tests now being developed become standard- 
ized, we suggest a plan already in use in some of the other subjects of 
the curriculum, i. e., the use of informal tests. The reasons that have 
been given for the use of informal tests are: they may be used for diagnos- 
ing situations for the individual pupil and school that would not be 
reached by the standardized test; they can be given during a normal 
recitation, thus doing away with the artificial conditions created by 
standardized tests; they secure more definite results than the ordinary 
examination; they will help to estabhsh minimal essentials and may be 
used as a means of comparison in classes, schools in the same town, and 
in a wider distribution when desired; they secure for the teacher a body 
of facts in addition to her own judgment. To the teacher of home 
economics, probably more than to the teacher in any other field, the 
informal test will be a means of helping toward the goal of objective 
measurement. 

An informal test is organized by the class-room teacher; the material 
used for the test is that which she considers most vital in her teaching. 
It is a test with a personal touch, worked out for the benefit of her 
individual class and situation. The first requisite for a test is that it 
measures some definite ability or product. The teacher must clearly 
define her reason for giving the test, and the outcomes she desires 
She must then select intelligently the material that will measure these 
outcomes. 

This paper gives an illustrative analysis of the objectives which should 
be in the mind of the teacher in giving a course in textiles; it also offers 
several informal tests which may be used to determine whether the 
objectives have been attained. The analysis of the objectives is, of 
course, a necessary preliminary to the formulation of the tests. 

Let us assume that a course in textiles is to be given to juniors and 
seniors in high school, with special emphasis upon the selection, buying, 
and use of clothing for the girl of liigh school age. The specific abilities 
that should be expected from this course are: ability to select and buy 
clothing wisely and discriminatingly; ability to evaluate factory-made, 
made-to-order, and home-made garments; ability to give proper care to 
clothing; ability to appreciate and understand something of the indus- 



1921] TESTS IN TEACHING TEXTILES AND CLOTHING 485 

tries connected with clothing manufacture; ability to pass intelligent 
judgment upon the need for proper textile legislation; abiUty to recog- 
nize defects, imitations, and adulterations in fabrics; ability to evaluate 
the worth of bargains, seasonal sales, fire sales, removal sales; ability 
to buy clothing with respect to its hygienic qualities. 

It is quite evident to the teacher of textiles that the above abilities 
will be acquired through learning certain facts, exercising certain judg- 
ments, having interests and habits developed. It will be necessary, 
therefore, to determine for each of the abihties the specific things that 
must be learned or done, in order to be able to devise tests that will 
measure accurately the accomplishment of the pupil. For example, 
the ability to select and buy clothing, wisely and discriminatingly, 
requires: knowledge of the structure of the textile fibers; knowledge 
of the characteristics of the fibers ; abiUty to identify standard materials 
with regard to names, prices, widths, and use; knowledge of the weaves 
generally used in the construction of fabrics, and the relation of these 
to the wearing qualities and costs of materials ; knowledge of a technical 
vocabulary, which will help in reading and understanding books, and 
articles; ability to perform the simple tests that may be used in the 
household, in order to determine quality and value of materials to be 
purchased ; knowledge of such processes of manufacture as are necessary 
as a basis for judging materials when purchasing; knowledge of some 
of the economic factors involved in production and consumption; 
knowledge of the possible ways in which fibers and fabrics may be 
adulterated. 

From the above analysis it will be seen that this subject which we 
call textiles, involves a range of information, the power to reason or 
pass judgment, and the abiHty to appreciate and understand certain 
social, industrial, and economic situations. The material selected for 
the course in textiles suggested above, and for our informal tests, has 
been based upon a study of the articles on textiles in the Journal 
during the past three years; upon the tabulation of the content of 
thirteen books, at present used as reference or text books in elementary 
and secondary schools; and upon the judgments of six teachers in 
the field, four college teachers who have either taught or are at present 
teaching textiles, a high school teacher, and a home economics vocational 
supervisor. This material was selected with care, because we beheve 
that before deciding upon basic material, to be incorporated in a course 
of study, it is important that we have the consensus of many expert 



486 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

judgments and not merely the opinion of one teacher. Furthermore 
we desired to select that material which is common to most textile 
teaching. Thus we speak a common language, and it will be quite 
possible to formulate tests that are similar in subject matter and con- 
struction, which will check up results or note progress of both teacher 
and pupil. For example, the informal test determining the pupil's 
knowledge of materials, and their adaptability and suitability for 
specific use in clothing and house furnishing, may be given in any com- 
munity, or at any school level, when the pupil has finished a study of 
fabrics. The test is illustrated in exercises I and 11. 

Tests similar to these are the Bowman-Trilling Tests, described in 
the monograph, "Home Economics in American Schools. i" They may 
be used as informal tests, and offer suggestions to the textile and clothing 
teacher for formulating tests suited to her special locality and needs. 

TEXTILE TEST NO. 1 

Exercise I 

Wool Materials Suitable for Garments and Housefurnishing 



Name Date. . 

School Grade. 



Below is a list of garments and household furnishings. After each article are several 
materials. Underline those materials which you consider most suitable for making the 
article. Work fast and see how many you can mark, but remember that it is more important 
that you mark correctly than that you mark a great many. Your score depends on the 
number that you mark correctly. 

Example: Kimono: veiling, challis, serge, cashmere. Begin when I say, "begin," and 
stop when I say, "stop." 

1. Suits: serge, poiret twill, challis, chinchilla. 

2. Coats: bolivia, chiffon, felt, cheviot. 

3. School dress: gabardine, jersey cloth, etamime, velour. 

4. Bath robe: cashmere, flannel, alpaca, melton. 

5. Overcoats: cravenette, cheviot, poplin, panama. 

6. Skirts: whipcord, tricotine, albatross, challis. 

7. Baimers: bunting, felt, basket cloth, crepon. 

8. Capes: tweed, broadcloth, eolienne, crepe. 

9. Rompers: poplin, shepherd's plaid, velour, voile. 
10. Bloomers: serge, mohair, velveteen, broadcloth. 

1 Home Economics in American Schools. Supplementary Educational Monograph 
Vol. II, No. 6 Chicago: Department of Education, University of Chicago, 1920. 



1921] TESTS IN TEACHING TEXTILES AND CLOTHING 487 

TEXTILE TEST NO. 1 

Exercise II 

Cotton Materials Suitable for Garments and Housefurnishings 



Name Date. . 

School Grade. 



Below is a list of garments and household furnishings. After each article are several 
materials. Underline those materials which you consider most suitable for making the 
article. Work fast and see how many you can mark, but remember that it is more important 
that you mark correctly than that you mark a great many. Your score depends on the 
number that you mark correctly. 

Example: Dresses: calico, net, gingham, muslin. Begin when I say, "begin," and stop 
when I say, "stop." 

1. Curtains: cretonne, flannel, scrim, ticking. 

2. Aprons: calico, buckram, bobinet, lawn. 

3. Towels: dimity, scrim, huckaback, turkish toweling. 

4. Waists: voile, madras, eider down, damask. 

5. Skirts: net, gabardine, Indian head, cheesecloth. 

6. Graduating dress: percale, organdie, flaxon, percaline. 

7. Night gowns: nainsook, longcloth, gingham, voile. 

8. Infant's coats: pique, velveteen, seersucker, dotted swiss. 

9. Middies: duck, lawn, galatea, batiste. 

10. Kimonos: crepe, flannelette, denim, khaki. 

Lack of space prevents us from presenting, for the work in clothing 
construction, a detailed analysis similar to the one given for textiles. 
We offer, however, a simple informal test, designed to measure the 
ability of a pupil in threading the sewing machine. By using this 
test, it is possible to determine the ability of an entire class in threading 
a sewing machine without testing each girl individually or providing 
a machine for each pupil tested. The test is easily and quickly graded 
and may be given at any time during the school year or immediately 
after the pupils have been taught the use of the sewing machine. A 
sample of the test is shown on the next page. 

The informal tests given in this study are only intended as suggestions 
relative to the kinds of tests the textile and clothing teacher may organize 
for use in her classes. It is hoped that many textile and clothing teachers 
will organize and use informal tests. In order that, at some time in 
the near future, at a textile conference, comparisons may be made, we 
are suggesting that directions, similar to those which we use for Textile 
Test No. 1, be used in conducting similar tests. 



488 



THE JOtHRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



SEWING MACHINE TEST 



Name., 
School. 



Date.. 
Grade. 



In the picture given you, the various parts of the machine head are numbered. Com- 
plete the directions started below for threading the Singer sewing machine, by writmg and 
identifying by number the various parts of the machme necessary for threading it, in the 
order in which the thread passes to meet the eye of the needle. 

Directions for threading 

To thread the Singer sewing macJiine, place the spool on the spool pin (4) over the thread 
guide (?) 

13 '2 




Directions for giving and scoring textile test no. I 

The examiner should remain at the front of the room throughout the entire 
test. She should set the pupils at ease at the begirming of the test by being 
pleasant and by avoiding anything that would create a tense situation. Give 
the test naturally and quietly, and with as little departure from the normal 
classroom conditions as possible. 

Before passing the test, write the example that is found on the test sheet 
on the black board, and explain to the students just what they wUl be expected 
to do. Also tell them to wait for the signal, " begin, " and to stop immediately 
when the signal, "stop," is given. 

To score the test, give a score of five for each correct answer. The perfect 
score will be one hundred, since there are two materials which are suitable 
for each article or garment included in the test. 

It will also help in our eJEforts to make comparisons, if the individual 
pupils during the year will keep a record of the tests they have taken 
and the scores made. The greatest benefit, however, of keeping the 



1921] 



AN EXPERIMENT IN TEACHING HEALTH 



489 



record will accrue to the pupil herself, because it should contain sugges- 
tions that will act as an incentive for improving her work. We suggest 
that the pupil use the following plan in keeping her record. 



Name. 
Age . . . 
Grade. 



1>xjpil's Record Sheet 

IJotne Economics Tests 

School . . . 

City 



State . 



NAME OF TEST 


DATE 


PERFECT OR 
PASSING SCORE 


MY SCORE 


WHAT SHOUI.D I DO TO IMPROVK 
MY SCORE? 






. 



































































For the purpose of helping to formulate definite objectives in teaching 
textiles and clothing, and in order that we may have the consensus of 
opinion of many teachers in the field, we suggest that the interested 
teacher make a list of those topics which she thinks should be common 
to all textile teaching, and which she intends to use in her informal 
tests, and send them to the writers of this article. We shall be glad to 
tabulate this material, and to send the results to those who desire them. 



AN EXPERIMENT IN TEACHING HEALTH 

VELMA PHILLIPS 
State Normal School, Dillon, Montana 

This experiment was carried on in a Normal College. Teachers in our 
elementary schools are urged and expected to put emphasis upon the teach- 
ing of health; therefore the normal schools have an especial task, namely, to 
raise the personal health standards and practices of our future teachers, not 
only for their personal happiness but to inspire their pupils in the cultivation 
of proper health habits. If health is to be taught properly the teacher 
should furnish an object lesson in health. 

PROCEDURE 

The class was composed of 20 students, all of whom were planning to be 
teachers in the elementary schools, and were taking the regular two year 
diploma course. On the first day the purpose of the class was explained as 



490 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

follows: (1) that emphasis was to be placed upon the nutritional needs of 
the body, wise choice of food, food values, and the efifects of cooking; (2) 
that all students were to become part of an experiment to ascertain the effect 
of putting into practice this knowledge (twenty health habits were recorded 
and of this number seven were to be reported upon daily); (3) that a record 
was to be kept of the sicknesses and minor ailments, such as headache, cold, 
insomnia, stomach disorders; also reports of their general vitality, abundant 
energy, and freedom from that feeUng of being "tired and worn out." 

All students were examined by the school nurse and physician, as follows: 
weight, height, pulse, resDiration, previous illness, throat, mouth, nose, eyes, 
heart, and blood. The physician found the class free from serious defects. 
All eye trouble was receiving attention ; the hemoglobin count fell below 100 in 
only two cases; there was one bad case of tonsils, which was not attended to 
until after the experiment closed; none of the class was seriously over or under 
weight. The health of the class was so much above the average that the only 
tangible results which could be expected for the three months, would be in 
the following points: (1) freedom from colds, headaches, and minor ailments; 
(2) increased state of vigor and vitaUty. 

The health habits recommended furnished the outline for the course.^ Some 
of these seem childish for college women but were included because the students 
were to use the material in teaching in the grades. The habits were: 

1. Sleep eight hours every day with windows open. 

2. Stay out of doors three hours every day, one hour in brisk exercise. 

3. Take "setting up" exercises every morning for 10 or 15 minutes. 

4. Stand and sit erect. 

5. Take at least two full baths every week. 

6. Brush teeth properly for five minutes every day. 

7. Wash hands before every meal. 

8. Keep finger nails clean. 

9. Cultivate the habit of keeping fingers, pencils, etc. out of mouth. 

10. Have a bowel movement every morning. 

11. Avoid undue exposure in cold weather because of foolishly thin clothing. 

12. Avoid unnecessary worry and imaginary sickness. 

13. Drink or eat in some form a pint of milk a day. 

14. Drink sLx cups of water a day. 

15. Eat regularly three times a day. 

16. Eat sweet foods only at the end of a meal. 

17. Eat some fruit every day, preferably fresh fruit. 

18. Eat two vegetables every day, if possible one leafy vegetable. 

19. Drink tea or cofifee only once a day, if at all. 

20. Learn to like aU palatable foods, "Eat for nourishment, not amusement." 

The following were considered by the group the most important for daily reports : Hours 
of sleep, hours out of doors, number of vegetables eaten (excepting potatoes), fresh fruit 
eaten, sweets eaten between meals, calories eaten per day, bowel movement (indicate if 
cathartic is taken). 

' Lesson plans are on file in the Journal Office. 



1921] AN EXPERIMENT IN TEACHING HEALTH 491 

Laboratory work consisted in applying the principles of cooking to those 
foods which are of nutritional value but frequently unpopular, namely, cereals 
in different forms, winter vegetables, milk soups, desserts made with milk, 
dried fruits and vegetables. Emphasis was placed upon economy in the use 
of food, and the relationship between the family budget and the food budget. 

RESULTS 

Results from such an experiment cannot be so specific as one would desire, 
and perhaps can be justly criticised, in that they may be influenced by 
personal opinion, prejudice, and desire on the part of the students to 
"make a good grade." These points were taken into consideration, and 
effort was made to eliminate causes for error by developing in the class an 
experimental state of mind. The last day the class was assured that all 
grades were complete, and were asked to answer the following: 1. Has the 
the experiment changed your mode of living in any way? 2. Can you see 
any improvements in your health? 3. Have you learned to Hke any food 
material? 

Eleven stated that they had been eating more fruit. 

Ten spent more time out of doors. The average for the class was 1.66 
hours per day; for the ten, 1.93 hours per day; for the others, 1.34 hours per 
day. 

Seven had more sleep. The average for the class was 7.96 hours per day; 
for the seven, 7.98 hours per day; for the others, 7.96 hours per day. 

Eight had acquired the habit of eating sweets less often between meals. 

Ten drank more milk. Eleven drank less tea and coffee. Eight of those 
who drank more milk drank less tea and coffee. 

Six ate more cereal, especially oatmeal. One ate less meat. 

Different members of the class had learned to like cereals, cabbage, 
carrots, leafy vegetables, milk, onions, parsnips, prunes, spinach, squash, 
turnips, tomato soup. 

Three noted an improved condition of the skin; eight were freer from 
headache, three were freer from constipation; two were freer from indigestion; 
nine had more vitality; one was freer from colds. As a rule, those to whom 
the "health habits" meant changes in their mode of living noted improved 
health. 

CONCLUSION 

It was more evident than in the average class beginning food study that 
the importance of the principles of right living and correct diet were impressed 
upon their minds. One student, considered by the faculty as below the 
average in mental ability, successfully put her knowledge of health habits 
into application in her third grade teaching. 



492 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Four students, during health week, planned and supervised the serving 
of hot school lunches and emphasized the importance of proper breakfasts and 
dinners by planning, and putting into the hands of each child, typical break- 
fast and dinner menus for the week. One student, a member of the editorial 
staff of the school paper, pubhshed to offer suggestion to teachers of the 
state on improved educational methods, wrote up the experiment advising 
its adoption. 

For "Health Week" the members of the class were asked to write suitable 
one-act plays to teach healtb habits and to interest people in living them. 
These plays showed that they had become quite observing of dietetic sins 
and their results. 

Health classes, in which emphasis is placed upon the apphcation of princi- 
ples of cookery and of nutrition, need not detract from this knowledge but 
should serve to make it more vital. 



NEW YORK NUTRITION COUNCIL 

Report of Committee on Training Standards' 

The Committee on Training Standards for Nutrition Workers realized that 
training was essential not only for the success of the nutrition worker but for 
the success of the work itself. Knowing that the number of competent nutri- 
tion workers is small and that the demand is a growing one, the committee 
aimed to be practical by erecting standards that are within reach; moreover, 
in formulating standards that were too high the committee felt it would noi 
only limit the possible number of workers but would put boundaries on nutri- 
tion work itself as it would confine the work to those communities that could 
afford to pay the high salary of an expert. The committee tried to make its 
recommendations general, yet definite enough to be helpful. In specifying 
the ground to be covered during the couse of study the committee aimed to 
think in terms of "subjects" rather than of "courses. " No attempt is made 
to state the length of time needed to complete the course. Much will depend 
on the previous training of the applicant. The personnel of the students 
taking the course may be divided into two classes. 

A. Students who elect these subjects during a regular four-year college 
course. 

B. Nurses, instructors in physical education, social workers, domestic 
science teachers, and other teachers who wish to supplement their previous 
training in order to become nutrition workers. 

' Prepared for the first annual meeting of the New York Nutrition Council, May 20, 1921. 



1921] NEW YORK NUTRITION COUNCIL 493 

TRAINING FOR FIELD WORKERS IN NUTRITION 

Definition. A field worker in nutrition is one who works with the physician 
on the nutrition of children either in nutrition classes, or the homes, or both. 

Prerequisite to training. The prospective nutrition worker should be a 
high school graduate. 

Training. Subjects taken during training should be on a collegiate basis. 

Course of Study 

hour:' per etui 
Food and nutrition (general chemistry a prerequisite): Chemistry of 

nutrition, chemistry of food, dietetics, food economics, cookery. . 690 46 

Physiology (including bacteriology) and hygiene 240 16 

Psychology and methods of pedagogy (including child study). . . 120 8 

Sociology and economics 240 16 

Case study (study of family problems) 120 8 

Record keeping 45 3 

S3rmptomatology (to be given by a physician) 30 2 

Public speaking 15 1 

Total 1500 100 

*An hour is a period of 50 to 60 minutes. 

TRAINING IN FIELD WORK 

Intensive course of three months under supervision. 

Age limit. The nutrition worker should be at least twenty-one years old 
before beginning work. 

TRAINING FOR SUPERVISORS OF NUTRITION 

There are organizations large enough to employ several nutrition workers. 
In order that a program may be worked out that will be coherent, it is very 
desirable that a nutrition supervisor be appointed by these organizations. The 
committee recommends that in order to qualify for this position the applicant 
should not only complete the subjects outlined above but should have a year 's 
experience in field work. She should also have attended a nutrition seminar 
in order that she may become acquainted with recent research work in nutri- 
tion and prepare herself to follow developments in this subject in the future. 
For the person about to become a supervisor of nutrition in the schools, a 
course in school administration is recommended. It is also recommended that 
the supervisor of nutrition be a college graduate. 

The following persons were asked to form the committee on training stand- 
ards for nutrition workers: Mary G. McCormick, State Department of 
Education, Chairman; Dr. Hugh Chaplin, Bellevue Hospital; Lucy H. Gillett, 
A. I. C. P.; Annie V. Goodrich, Henry Street Settlement; W. F. Johnson, Chil- 
dren's Aid Society; Dr. Mary Swartz Rose, Teachers College; Mrs. Amy D. 
Storer, Atlantic Division, American Red Cross; Dr. Ira S. Wile, Mt. Sinai 
Hospital; Dr. Jessie F. Williams, Teachers College. 



494 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



STUDIES ON THE EFFECT OF STORAGE UPON THE KEEPING 

QUALITY OF CERTAIN VEGETABLES CANNED BY THE 

ONE PERIOD COLD PACK METHOD^ 

ALICE BIESTER, MILDRED WEIGLEY, AND WINIFRED CASE KNAPP 
Division of Home Economics, University of Minnesota 

An examination of the process periods advocated for several states lying 
wholly or partially in the same latitude as Minnesota suggests that some 
factor other than those commonly recognized may possibly account for the 
varied recommendations (see table 1). 

TABLE 1 

Showing the process periods advocated in bulletins published for use in seven northern states 



VEGETABLE 



Beet greens.. 

Beets 

Carrots 

String beans . 

Corn 

Tomatoes. . . 
Pumpkin . . . . 



NUMBER OF MINCTES ADVOCATED FOR PROCESS PERIODS 



Oregon 


North 
Dakota 


South 
Dakota 


Wiscon- 
sin 


New 
York 


Vermont 


Maine 


U.S. 
Dept. 
Agr. 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


(6) 


(V) 


(8) 


90 


150 


120 


180 


180* 


120 


90 


120 


90 


60-90 


90 


90 


90 


90-120 


90 


90 


90 


60-90 


90 


90 


90 


90 


90 


90 


120 


90-120 


120 


120 


180* 


90-150 


120 


120 


180 


180 


180 


180 


180* 


180-240 


180 


180 


22 


22-25 


22 


30 


22 


20-30 


22 


22 


60 




120 




120* 


90 


60 


120 



* The intermittent sterilization process is recommended. 

In some of the process periods listed in table 1, the times allowed are 
probably so short that complete sterilization is not efifected. Castle (9) 
questions the completeness of sterilization for vegetables packed in glass 
jars and heated in a water bath one hour on each of three successive days. 
Incomplete sterilization may not always result in a product which is sub- 
sequently considered inedible. Bushnell (10) found that some of his ex- 
perimental packs which apparently kept well contained bacteria or spores, 
especially if acid were present or if the container were sealed to exclude air. 
Out of three hundred seventy samples of canned vegetables purchased in 
different parts of the United States Weinzirl (11) found that seventy-six or 
20.5 per cent of the marketable cans contained viable bacteria. Certain 
cans which contained bacteria were incubated at temperatures varying from 
28° to 37°C. for periods varying from one week to one month without resulting 
in spoilage. Weinzirl attributes the keeping quahty to the absence of oxygen 
in the cans, thereby emphasizing the importance of a vacuum in cans. 



1 Data taken from thesis submitted by Winifred Case Knapp in partial fulfillment of the 
requirements for the degree of Master of Science. 



1921] EFFECT OF STORAGE UPON CERTAIN CANNED VEGETABLES 495 

Cheyney (12), who examined one-hundred forty-five merchantable cans of 
vegetables, reports the presence of viable organisms in 6.2 per cent of the 
cans. 

The available data on the effect of storage temperature upon the keeping 
quality of canned vegetables suggest the need for additional experiments. 
Bitting and Bitting (13) emphasize the importance of cooling cans quickly 
before stacking, and advocate the selection of cans from the interior of the 
stack as well as from the exterior, in picking representative cans for examina- 
tion. The interior of a large stack of cans is reported as remaining warm from 
ten to twenty days. Genung (14) found that storage at room temperature 
resulted in less spoilage than storage in a bacteriological incubator, and 
advocates immediate storage in a cool place. 

It is evident from these citations that the presence of bacteria does not 
necessarily result in an inedible product. It is probable that bacteria or 
spores which are capable of rendering a canned product inedible find a cool 
place of storage less favorable for their development than a warm place. 
The present investigation has been undertaken for the purpose of deter- 
mining the effect of different conditions of storage upon the keeping quality 
of certain vegetables canned by the one period cold pack method. No 
attempt has been made to study the bacterial flora of the canned products. 
It is probable that some bacteria in canned goods are quite as harmless as 
many of those which are taken with uncooked food products, whereas others 
may be highly objectionable because of the deleterious effect which they 
exert upon the quality of the canned product or because of the ill effects 
which are experienced by the consumer. The conditions, under which vege- 
tables should be canned in order to destroy all microorganisms which would 
render the canned product inedible or harmful to the consumer, constitute 
a field in which additional bacteriological studies are needed. 

EXPERIMENTAL 

The following vegetables commonly canned in Minnesota were selected for this investi- 
gation: beet greens, beets, green string beans, wax beans, carrots, corn, tomatoes, and 
pumpkin. This group offers variety in chemical composition, in physical properties and in 
the parts of the plant commonly used for food. The experiments reported in this paper 
were performed at an altitude of approximately 1000 feet. In order to work as speedily as 
possible, all equipment and specially prepared data sheets were assembled before the prepa- 
ration of the vegetables was begun. Every effort was made to obtain vegetables of good 
texture gathered on the day of canning, to have them free from apparent disease or decay, 
and to hold them in good condition until used. The vegetables were thoroughly washed in 
tap water and suitably prepared for blanching. 

The vegetables were blanched by steaming except in the case of tomatoes which were 
scalded to loosen the skins. Inasmuch as steaming results in the loss of lesser quantities of 
mineral salts than boiling (15), a tin household steamer 5^ inches high and 11 inches in 
diameter, having a tightly fitted flanged cover was placed on a three quart basin, so fitted 
to the steamer that little or no steam was lost from the boiling water. The period of blanch- 



496 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

ing vsras detennined by noting the hour at which the cover of the steamer was in place and 
that at which the steamer was removed. In selecting the blanching period, a time of such 
a length was selected that further shrinkage of the vegetable was reduced to a minimum. 
One or two minutes were allowed for tomatoes, 5 minutes for pumpkin, 7 minutes for string 
beans and com, 10 minutes for carrots, 15 minutes for beet greens, and 25 minutes for beets. 

The blanched vegetables were cold-dipped for one minute, allowing nine quarts of tap 
water to one steamer of vegetables. The temperature of the water varied from 11 ° to 30° C. 
The beet greens were drained for five minutes in a colander. The mass of greens was loos- 
ened and turned with a fork for one minute of the draining period. String beans, corn, and 
pumpkin were drained for a minimum period of five minutes. No constant amount of time 
was allowed for beets, carrots, and tomatoes. 

The vegetables were not graded before packing. Beet greens and tomatoes were packed 
whole. Beets under 2\ inches in diameter were packed without cutting, and the larger 
beets were cut horizontally into three or four pieces. The string beans were cut into lengths 
varying from ' to IJ inches. For blanching, carrots under one inch in diameter were left 
whole; those over 1 inch and under If inches in diameter were cut into two lengthwise pieces; 
and the larger ones were quartered lengthwise. After the cold dip the carrots were cut hori- 
zontally into pieces j to f inch in length. The corn kernels were cut from the cob at approxi- 
mately one-half their depth and the pulp remaining was scraped from the cob. The pumpkin 
was cut into pieces approximately J inch by IJ inches by Ij inches in size. The containers 
used were glass pint jars fitted with porcelain lined metal covers and a good grade of rubber. 

In general, the vegetables were packed to secure maximum economy of jar space, pro- 
vided that the vegetable could be removed with the retention of the shape of the pieces, if 
desired. An effort was made to have the packs of each vegetable of comparable density. 
When the densities of the packs were computed in terms of the grams of cold dipped vege- 
tables per cubic centimeter of jar capacity, the figures for the several series of each vegetable 
varied within rather narrow limits. The average densities for the vegetables were as fol- 
lows: — 26 jars of beet greens, 0.933; 27 jars of beets, 0.764; 9 jars of wax beans, 0.739; 26 
jars of green string beans, 0.788; 18 jars of carrots, 0.796; 9 jars of sweet com, 0.945; 30 jars 
of tomatoes, 1.025; and 27 jars of pumpkin, 1.017. Subsequent comparisons between the 
keeping quality of individual vegetables and the densities of the packs showed no constant 
relationship between these factors within the limits of the densities represented in these 
experiments. In somewhat wider ranges of densities, Denton (16), working with carrots, 
and Castle (9), experimenting with spinach and carrots, found that greatly increasing the 
density of the pack decreased the rate at which heat penetrated to the center of the jar. 

In all cases, where water was used as such or as an ingredient of brine for completing the 
pack, tap water was boiled vigorously for five minutes, allowed to settle, and decanted. A 
good grade of commercial salt was used. No liquid was added in packing the tomatoes or 
pumpkin. In some packs of the former, liquid was discarded with both vegetables, the 
pulp was heaped above the top of the jar, a teaspoon of salt was added to each jar and the 
cover was pressed down before adjusting for processing. Water and one teaspoon of salt 
per pint were added to complete the pack of beet greens. It was found convenient to place 
a portion of the two per cent brine in the jar before introducing string beans or com into 
their respective jars. Two per cent brine was also used for carrots and beets. 

Of the [methods of processing in common use, the water bath was chosen because the 
outfit for this method can be devised from ordinary household equipment, and consequently 
this method is very commonly used. The processing outfit consisted of an aluminum kettle, 
10^ inches high and 9 inches in diameter, having a closely fitted set-in cover. A wire rack 
raised the jars one inch from the bottom of the kettle. With sufl&cient water to allow a 
depth of one inch above the covers of four pint jars standing on the rack, the volume of the 
water bath was 5^ quarts. The median temperature of the bath was 75°C. when the first 
jar was immersed, a temperature low enough to avoid breakage and high enough to retard 



1921] EFFECT OF STORAGE UPON CERTAIN CANNED VEGETABLES 497 

the action or development of certain undesirable microorganisms. The bath was held over 
a very low flame until all four jars of the series were immersed immediately after the packing 
of each. The median temperature of the bath when Can I\' was immersed was 80°C. The 
bath was slowly brought to the boiling point, previous trials having indicated a relatively 
small loss of liquid with such a procedure. The covers of the jars were screwed lightly against 
the rubber. In a few cases five jars were processed instead of four jars. 

The process periods chosen were for the most part representative of those advocated in 
bulletins for the northern states. In order to test the rate at which interior temperatures 
changed, a record of the hours at which 80°C. and 98°C. were reached was kept for Can IV 
of each series, using the method described by Denton (16). The process periods cited in 
this report represent the number of minutes elapsing from the hour that the water bath was 
vigorously boiling after the packed jars were immersed to the hour that the jars were removed 
one at a time, for scaling. After testing the seals, the jars were allowed to stand, right side 
up, in a laboratory until cool. 

The extremes of temperature to which canned vegetables are subjected in the home are 
those obtaining in a vegetable cellar and in a kitchen. In these experiments the only storage 
place available, which compared in temperature with a good vegetable cellar, was a large 
cement walled root cellar built partially into a hillside. No control of temperature was 
possible in this cellar, and the extremes of temp)erature noted with a maximum and minimun) 
thermometer were 0° and 23°C. Conditions of temperature comparable to a heated sum- 
mer kitchen were provided in a bacteriological incubator, the temperature of which ranged 
from 28° to 32°C. with the exception of the temperature for one tomato series and for the 
pumpkin experments where the limits were 25° and 30°C. 

Triplicate series of each process period tested on each vegetable were run, each series for 
a given process period being stored under a different condition. One series was kept for at 
least four months in the root cellar, a period arbitrarily chosen as representative of storage 
for a season in a home cellar. A second series was placed in a bacteriological incubator for 
ten days. The third series was stored in the root cellar for a period of ten days for the pur- 
pose of determining the correlation between the keeping quality of vegetables stored for a 
ten day period in a bacteriological incubator and a cellar. The canned products were placed 
in storage on the day upon which they were canned, with the exception of a few incubator 
series which were kept in the laboratory over night, because the incubator was difficult of 
access at night. 

Members of the instructional staff of the Division of Home Economics judged the keeping 
quality of the canned products. All jars which were considered inedible by the majority of 
the judges are recorded as "inedible" in Table 2, although in several cases the degree of 
spoilage was so slight that the judges disagreed. 

An examination of the data in Table 2, in which "thermometer jars" have been omitted, 
shows very clearly that storage in the incubator for 10 days resulted in far greater spoilage — 
33 jars out of 62 jars — than storage in the root cellar for 4 months — 5 inedible jars out of 
60 jars — or storage for 10 days in the cellar — 4 inedible jars in a total of 53 jars. Data given 
on the records of the judges made it possible to compare the quality of the vegetables for 
these series. Fourteen of the 29 edible jars stored for ten days in the incubator graded 
below "good" in flavor; five of the 49 edible jars stored in the root cellar for ten days graded 
below "good," and five of the 55 edible jars stored for four months graded below "good." 

For beet greens, there was great similarity in all of the factors for which a record was 
kept, save those of storage temperature and keeping quality, the 60 minute process period 
showing total spoilage for the incubator series. A 60 minute process period for beets proved 
uiueliable irrespective of the conditions of storage. A 90 minute process period was satis- 
factory only for the products stored in the root cellar. Even the beets processed for 120 
minutes and stored in the incubator, while judged edible, showed a very low grade for every 
jar when compared with the other edible jars of the series. 



498 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



TABLE 2 

Showing the effect of storage upon the keeping quality of vegetables 





PROCESS 
PERIOD 


KEEPING QUALITY 


VEGETABLE 


Root cellar storage, 
4 months, 0°-23-"C. 


Incubator storage, 
10 days, 28°-32°C. 


Root cellar storage, 
10 days, 0''-23°C. 




Number 


Number 


Number 


Number 


Number 


Number 






jars, 
edible 


_ jars, 
inedible 


jars, 
edible 


jars, 
inedible 


jars, 
edible 


jars, 
inedible 




minutes 














Totals 




55 


5 


29 


33 


49 


4 




60 


3 








3 


3 





Beet greens J 


90 


3 





3 





3 





. 


120 


3 





2 





3 





Beets ) 


60 
90 


2 
3 


1 






1 


3 
2 


1 
3 


2 





120 


3 





3 





3 





Wax beans ■ 


120 


3 





3 





3 





Green string beans. . . ' 


90 
120 


5 
2 


1 
1 


2 



4 
6 


4 
3 


1 




Carrots J 


90 
120 


1 
3 


2 





2 


3 

1 


2 
3 


1 




Corn • 


180 


3 





3 





3 





Tomatoes J 


22 
30 


6 
6 






3 
4 


2 


3 
3 






r 


60 


3 








3 


3 





Pumpkin 


90 


3 





2 


1 


3 





. 


120 


3 





1 


2 


3 






Some of the spoilage for green string beans may undoubtedly be attributed to the fact 
that it was impossible to obtain a uniformly good quality of raw material. It is significant, 
however, that two of the nine jars, stored for four months, and one of the eight jars, stored 
for ten days in the cellar, spoiled, while ten of the twelve incubator-stored jars of beans were 
judged inedible. One-fourth of the jars of carrots stored in the cellar spoiled, whereas two- 
thirds of those placed in the incubator were inedible. 

Sweet corn is the only vegetable reported in these experiments in which the incubator- 
stored products graded uniformly as high as the cellar-stored products. That all of the 
microorganisms found in vegetables may not be destroyed is suggested by the fact that , in 
several cases in which tomatoes kept well, the interior temperature of the jar at no time 
exceeded SO'C. Both tomatoes and pumpkin showed a high proportion of inedible jars for 
the incubator-stored products, with no spoilage for the cellar stored jars. 



1921] EFFFXT OF STORAGE UPON CERTAIN CANNED VEGETABLES 499 

DISCUSSION OF RESULTS 

Inasmuch as vegetables from the same source were used and subjected 
to comparable treatment for the series compared, the time or temperature 
of storage is the principal variable. Examination of the experimental data 
shows no constant relationship between the length of time that the vege- 
table was held above a temperature of 80° or 98° C and spoilage. It should be 
noted, however, that the judging data showed certain observations common 
to many of the thermometer jars. The amount of liquid in the thermometer 
jar at the end of the process periods in approximately one-half of the series 
exceeded that of the other jars in the same series, and in many cases the 
difference was marked. Thompson (17) found that the rate at which heat 
penetrated a jar of canned vegetables was favorably influenced by the presence 
of free liquid. It is possible that the temperature noted in the thermometer 
jar was higher than that in the other jars in some of the series. 

It is evident that the merits of a given procedure in canning cannot be 
considered apart from the temperature to which the stored product is to b^ 
subjected. Where it is desirable to test out a canning procedure within a 
relatively short period, it should be noted that the keeping quality of vege- 
tables stored for a ten-day period in a cool cellar closely parallels that of 
vegetables stored for a minimum of four months in a cellar. The results of 
these experiments offer one possible explanation for the failure of some 
workers to verify conclusions stated by other investigators. It is entirely 
possible that a process period which proves successful when the product is 
stored in a Minnesota cellar might not be satisfactory if a canned vegetable 
with a similar history were stored in a cellar in the south. Again it can be 
seen that a product which would keep satisfactorily in a cool place of storage 
might spoil if the only place of storage were a hot foods laboratory or an 
apartment kitchen. Furthermore, the large amount of spoilage occurring 
in the incubator-stored vegetables suggests the desirability of storing canned 
products in a cool place immediately. 

SUMMARY 

The more important findings in the experiments on the canning of beet 
greens, beets, string beans, carrots, corn, tomatoes, and pumpkin may be 
set forth as follows: 

1. The increased time required for processing certain vegetables when 
stored in an incubator, together with the greater amount of spoilage which 
occurred in the incubator-stored vegetables, indicates that the length of the 
process period cannot be considered apart from storage conditions. More- 
over, a process period that is successful in one section of the country may 
prove unsatisfactory when used in a warmer climate. 



500 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

2. Approximately one-half of the incubator-stored vegetables spoiled, 
whereas about one-twelfth of the vegetables stored in the cellar were inedible. 

3. When the grade for flavor as well as the spoilage of canned vegetables 
is considered, the deleterious effect of the incubator-storage upon the keeping 
quahty is further emphasized. 

4. The amount of spoilage occurring in a ten-day period in a lot of canned 
vegetables may probably be taken as a fair index of the amount of spoilage 
which will occur in a period of four or more months of cellar storage. 

5. The relatively large amount of spoilage observed in the incubator 
storage indicates the desirability of storing vegetables in a cool place 
immediately after canning. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. TuRLEY, Anna M.: Home Canning. Oregon Agr. Coll., E.Tt. Bull. 204, May 1917, 

pp. 10-13. 

2. ^IacDonald, May C: Preservation of Food in the Home. X. Dak. Agr. Coll., Ext. 

Bull. 3, June 1916, p. 16. 

3. McNeill, Roberta: Home Canning, One Period Cold Pack Method. S. Dak. State 

Coll. Agr. Mech. Arts, Ext. Circ. 4, June 1918, p. 8. 

4. Canning Fruits and Vegetables. State Council of Defense and Agr. Ext. Serv., Univ. 

Wis., July 1917, pp. 4, 5. 

5. Food Preservation, A National Challenge. Cornell Reading Course for the Farm Home, 

Food Series, Lesson 113, June 1917, p. 165. 

6. Home Caiming. Home Econ. Dept., Vt. Agr. Ext. Serv. Circ. 6, June 1917, p. 8. 

7. Instructions for Canning and Preserving. Univ. Maine Agr. Ext. Serv. Bull. 112, 1917, 

pp. 13, 14. 

8. Benson, O. H.: Home Canning by the One Period Cold Pack Method. U. S. Dept, 

Agr. Farmers Bull. 839, May 1917, pp. 29, 30. 

9. Castle, C. E.: Effect of Pack and Depth of Water Bath upon Interior Temperatures 

of Jars in Cold Pack Canning. Jour. Home Econ., 11 (1919), pp. 246-251. 

10. BusHNELL, L. D.: The Influence of Cold Shock in the Sterilization of Caimed Goods. 

Jour. Indus, and Engin. Ckem., 10 (1918), pp. 432-436. 

11. Weinzirl, J.: The Bacteriology of Canned Goods. Joiir. Med. Res., 39 (1919), pp. 

349-413. 

12. Cheyney, E. W. : A Study of Microorganisms found in ^Merchantable Canned Goods. 

Jour. Med. Res., 40 (1919), pp. 177-197. 

13. Bitting, A. W., and Bitting, K. G.: Bacteriological Examination of Canned Goods. 

Res. Lab. Nat. Canners .\ssn. Bull. 14, 1917, pp. 48. 

14. Genung, E. F.: A Consideration of the Canning Problem. Jour. Home Econ., 10 (1918) , 

pp. 32^333. 

15. Berry, Josephine T.: Losses in the Cooking of Vegetables. Jour. Home Econ., 4 

(1912), pp. 405^12. 

16. Denton, MhsNA C: What Temperature is Reached Inside the Jar in Home Canning? 

Jour. Home Econ., 10 (1918), pp. 548-552. 

17. Thompson, G. E.: Temperature — Time Relations in Canned Food During Sterilization. 

Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 11 (1919), pp. 657-664. 



1921] A PRACTICAL PROBLEM IN DIETETICS 501 

A PRACTICAL PROBLEM IN DIETETICS 

MARTHA KOEHNE 
University of Washington, Seattle 

A university course in dietetics should be two-fold in nature. First, 
it should connect up with preliminary courses in food preparation, physiology, 
and chemistry, both organic and physiological, in a scientific presentation 
of the fundamental principles of nutrition and of all the recent developments 
in this science; and it should afford opportunity for training in proper valua- 
tion of published articles relating to nutrition. Such training is needed by 
home economics teachers, dietitians, nurses, institutional managers, and by 
those engaged in other professions requiring a knowledge of food preparation 
and selection. It is also a prerequisite for all advanced work in nutrition. 
Second, such a course in dietetics should train girls for homemaking. It 
should thoroughly impress on all students taking the course, the importance 
of proper selection of food for themselves and their families. It should 
develop such an interest in the subject that they will keep up their reading 
along these lines, for its great practical value to themselves and others. 

The following studies, which were made in the first quarter of their course 
by the students in the dietetics classes in the University of Washington, 
as part of their laboratory work, were designed to meet this second need. 
About 70 per cent of the girls were fortunate enough to be living in their 
own homes, and this report is concerned chiefly with this group.^ Charts 
and statistics may, at first thought, seem far removed from the problem of 
feeding oneself and family. However, the students derived so much 
benefit from this portion of their work that the plan of the experiment is 
presented as a suggestion for others. The results are presented for their 
own value and interest. 

PROCEDURE 

In October the students began a study of their customary diet. Those 
living at home, with the cooperation of their mothers, kept accurate record of 
all the food consumed in their families for one week, wherever possible keep- 
ing the record in terms of weights of raw materials used. The total number 
of meals served was also recorded. The students were instructed that the 
meals were to be planned as nearly as possible along well-established, cus- 
tomary fines. 

Classifications of the foods used were made as follows: 

Group 1. Sweets (including sugars, candies, syrups, jams, jellies, preserves, bakery 
cookies and cakes). 

Group 2. Seed foods, cereals, and cereal products (including bread, crackers, flour, break- 
fast foods, rice, macaroni, and other cereal products, dry peas, and dry beans.) 

' Girls who ate at the University Commons, or at boarding houses, weighed their indi- 
vidual portions, using the tables in Locke's Food Values, for their calculations. 



502 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [OctobcF 

Group 3. Non-leafy vegetables (including all tubers and root vegetables, pumpkin, 
squash, sweet com, etc.). 

Group 4. Green vegetables (including spinach and other greens, lettuce, celer>', cabbage, 
green beans and peas, Brussels sprouts, and cauliflower). 

Group 5. Fruits of all kinds, — fresh, canned, and dried. 

Group 6. Meats, poultry, fish, shell fish, and game. 

Group 7. Meat substitutes, such as eggs, cheese, and nuts. 

Group 8. Milk of all kinds (fresh, dried or evaporated, whole, skimmed, or buttermilk). 

Group 9. Other dairy products, such as butter, cream, ice cream. 

Group 10. Other fats, oils, and fat rich foods. 

No record was kept of coffee, t^a, spices, baking powder, vinegar, because they are of 
practically no food value. 

At the end of the week, totals for individual items in each group were 
obtained; weight of water-free, waste-free food, in individual items in each 
group, calculated; and weight of protein and the calorie value similarly 
calculated. After the individual items were completed, the total weight of 
water- and waste-free food, protein, and total calories for each group were 
added separately and a chart prepared which showed total original weights, 
total water- and waste-free weights, total protein weights and total calories 
for each group. The per cent of actual food and also of protein derived 
from each group, total calories per person per day, and total weight of pro- 
tein per person per day were then calculated. 

Results were criticized in class, keeping in mind the number of children, 
state of health, and degree of activity of the members of the household. The 
students were shown where their diets were faulty and how they could be im- 
proved. As was to be expected, many of them were too low in leafy vege- 
tables, fruit, and milk, and too high in starchy foods and in meat. 

2. After the students understood what constitutes a balanced diet, those 
living in their own homes repeated the study, but with this difference, — they 
planned the meals themselves and agreed to make a sincere effort to see that 
their famihes were given the proper combination of food. If possible, they 
were to do this with no greater expenditure of money than was customary in 
their famihes. In addition to data collected in the first study, they recorded 
the amount of money spent for each type of food, calculated the precentage 
distribution of total amount spent among the ten groups, and the average 
cost per person per meal. Where foods had been canned at home, cost was 
charged at retail grocery prices.- 

DATA 

Leafy vegetables increased up to 500 per cent. Milk consumption increased up to 600 
per cent. Fruit consumption, in most cases, increased remarkably. 

* In the first study, eggs and cheese were included in Group 9 and nuts in Group 10, 
which makes some difference in comparison. Also the first 3 groups were taken as a whole, 
not separated as in the later method. The strict classification into ten groups as outlined 
earlier is much more desirable and will be adhered to in the future. Distribution of cost 
will be calculated for all such studies. 



1921] 



A PRACTICAL PROBLEM IN DIETETICS 



503 



In Chart I we see that ^ of the actual food of these families was derived from groups 1, 2, 
and 3, at about J of the total cost. Meat and meat substitutes constituted less than 5 of 
their total food, but cost almost as much as the 5 derived from groups 1, 2, and 3. About 
\ of the total food was derived from milk, butter, cream, and ice cream, at a little over one- 
fourth of the total cost. Approximately the same amounts of money were spent for meat, 
milk, butter, fruit, and cereals. Leafy vegetables are about as expensive as meat, and fruits 
much less expensive than meat. Groups 1, 2, and 3 are in every way the cheapest foods. 

From "Dietary Customs"' by Velma Phillips and Laura Howell, figures are given com- 
paring Dr. Sherman's suggested desirable distribution of food cost with that determined on 
investigating this matter in Italian, Jewish, and Negro districts in New York. Dr. Sherman 
suggests spending 25.0 per cent for grains, 20.0 per cent for fruits and vegetables, 20.0 per 
cent for meat and eggs, 20.0 per cent for milk and cheese, and 15.0 per cent for miscellaneous 
items. The averages found among the 105 families, whose dietary habits were studied by 
Miss Phillips and Miss Howell, showed the following expenditure: 23.8 per cent for grains, 
13.8 per cent for fruits and vegetables, 33.5 per cent for meat and eggs, 13.3 per cent for 
milk and cheese, and 15.5 per cent for miscellaneous items. 

In Chart II, the averages are compared directly with similar averages made from the 
list of foods which the United States Department of Labor^ gave as being required for a family 
of five for one year. A more liberal allowance of leafy vegetables, such as cabbage and 
spinach should have been provided in this Government budget. Considering the fact that 
there are three gro\ving children in this family, the milk allowance should have been larger. 
These increases could take the place of some of the cereal foods, for which a very liberal 
allowance is made. On the whole, the budget stands comparison very well. 

CHART I 

Average distribution of foods and cost for 15 families* 



1. Sweets 

2. Cereals 

3. Non-leafy vegetables . 



4. Leafy vegetables . 

5. Fruits 



6. Meats 

7. Meat substitutes . 



8. Milk 

9. Other dairy products . 



10. Other fats. 



per cent distribution 

of total water- and 

waste-frj:e food 



10.7 
27.5 
12.2 

1.4 
10.7 



2.7 

14.1 
7.4 

4.4 



50.4 



12.1 



11.5 



21.5 



4.4 



PER CENT 
DISTRIBU- 
TION OF 
TOTAL 
PROTEIN 



34.6 



4.1 



34.5 



25.2 



PER CENT DISTRIBUnOK 
OF TOTAL COST 



7.4 

12.0 

6.1 

5.2 
13.2 

15.0 
8.5 

14.3 
13.0 

4.4 



25.5 

18.4 

23.5 

27.3 
4.4 



Average calories per person per day 2600 

Average grams protein per person per day 86 . 5 

Average cost per person per meal 18.9 cents 

* The fifteen families, taken from the second study, are those which showed the use of a 
pint or more of milk per person per day. A few of these still showed too low a per cent of 
leafy vegetables. 



' See Journal of Home Economics, Sept. 1920, p. 396. 
* Monthly Labor Review, June 1920. 



504 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 





> 


o 

g 

CO 






6 


g 


CM 

i 




d 




6 


c^ 


o 
6 


o 


00 

6 




6 


00 


<5 

/5 


o 


6 

12: 


o 






I 
& 

3 

12; 





in c o t^ <^ ^ 

O "~/ J^ "— fM fC 






Ov,_>0»-it^'*r~Ttu->t^ 



O 00 — 



\OvOt^0C>Or-4fNO\CN 



00OCC^OO00lOO\CS 



\OOOvOOOf^-HTj<OC 



JS s^ y5 i/^ 



S rt 3 ai ei 7= -C ■'J 



i;; U Iz; hJ u. 






-< o 

• . o 

00 ov ^ 

, c D, a. 

3333333333 
OOOOOOOOOO 






o o o 






o o 


O 


c 


o 


o 


■c 


O 


O 


Cn 


1^ 


00 ■* 


U~y 


— 


fNJ 


^ 


- 


On 


to 


^ 


§ 


«M O 


o 


o 


00 


"~y 


"^ 


00 


rj- 


t- 


^ 


00 00 


00 


■^ 


o 


CN 


— ' 


O 


C\ 


iri 




ro O 


rj 


o 


ro 


o 


p^ 


p^ 


■o 


O 


_ 




vO 


•^ 


^ 


lo 


ro 


^ 


-t 


cs 


^0 



o 


^ 


^ o -^ lo 


lO Tj. 


f— 


t^ 


O 


^ 


•>* 

CM 


00 « CN O 


CS rc 


ro 


<N1 


O 



CN 


o 


IC 


O 


t^ 


Ov 


r^ 


»0 


00 


Ov 


VO 


o 


f*5 


VO 


ro 


^ 


ro 


I^ 


VO 


Ov 


■* 




ID 


'^ 


00 


VO 


t^ 


o> 


fO 


00 


00 


VO 


t^ 


ir> 




O 


fO 


■<t 


Ov 


CM 


«N 


t^ 


00 


00 



Tj< j~» vo vC 
fN •«* lO lO 



O 00 -^ (^ 



r*; Ov i'^ O 
<^ r<3 t^ XT) 



t^ Ov rr; ••-< 



^ 



m rc ro CS 



■* ">* Ov VO 



O tN Ov CS 



i: 



Ov lO O fO 

Ov ro O »* 



c c o o o 



o 



CN 1/^ l^ Ov 

-^^ ■*" vo" oo" 

tfi ifi in ifi 

CX CLi o. c 

3 S 3 S 

O O O O 

o o o o 



s. 






CO 



U 



1 



1921 



A PRACTICAL PROBLEM IN DIETETICS 



505 





>o 


o 


NO 


o 


o 


o 


00 


fo 


vO 


r~ 








t^Tj<\ocs\oo\>OP^t^'<* 








^ '^ ■^ '^ 








-H O 00 C^ t^ 








00 00 ■^ o •^ 




. 




(V4 -H CS -i-H 










00 


a 




CMCSrOMDroO'^'^ONOv 


r^ 






yOr^vO>r)Tj<r-JO\'^'^'^ 


O 


U 




,rt »H -H -H »-l 


*9 


•1 

5^2 




t^ Q\ ^^ ro Cn 










ut r^ 




tN '-I rj CM 




fe-S 






rc 


tfl ^-H 






tv| 






OOOOOOOOOOO 


^-H 


1 

lulls, 
adul 
lults, 




r0fNv0'0OOO«OP-)'r) 


Q 




,— ( ^-H ^— i •-» ^-^ i^H 


€^ 






lO 


rt "^ rt 




•*vO00O\00O'*''5>'>^~ 


■^ 


ro ■^■' 1* 




iO0000fO00O\t^"^fS'* 


S 




^ ^ -^ 


«© 


f<0 •^ lO 






1 ■* 


~ T-H cs cs 




lO^O•^00rJ^00O^»^O^O^ 


On 


odd 
Iz; ;2; iz; 


tr- 


O'*'*t--'*O<^<~00N<r> 


o 


a. 


^-H *-H ^— * '-H '-H 


^© 




D 








o 




liO 






OC^f^OOJ^oor-iO 


■^ 




o 


vOt^fO'^OOt^oO'ti 


o 






€^ 




o 













t^ 




c 


,.-iO<Nt^CNt~Of^CSO 


"-I 




'^ 


(viO'*fS^OvO'*'^^iO 


o 


-^ 2 


(A 


v^ 4— < V ( ▼— 4 «-H V— 1 


^ 


^ r3 


o 






rs ^ 


u 




m 


^ <j 


<^-t 


OscSiOvO-^Ot^OvrO'T) 


CN 


o ^_, 


o 






-_< • 


c 


CSr<300fOOO-*fS'-< 


C 


- oT "3 


^ r^ ^ ^ CS 


#1 


1 

Its, 

lilt 

ull 


1 


(nO^V^OONOOrOOO 




3-5 2 


*c 


lO•<*^~^oOOOO^O^oo^^ 


Q, 


"5 r^ CO 






4€ 


- Tdi 


•-3 






OGO— irf<u^'<l<OvOt~'-< 


00 


1 <^ '^ 

00 -^ '-I 




•*0000O\^O00^t--f~^r'5 


Q 


odd 

;2; iz; iz; 


o 


T-H r^ T-( 


m 


« 




00 




eu 


O-^-^OOOOCNCSOvO 








vOOOOOOuOOOOnvO 


o 






'"' >-l ,.-1 ,-1 ,1-1 


«^ 


^ 








ji3 




















































a 


























ej 


























S 


























^ 


























C 


























<u 


























s 


























ts 


























c 


























<u 


























s 
























a, 


g 
























E 


^7 
























1. 
1. 


c d 1 
























c 
c 
c 


wome 
wome 
adults 
























c 


C^J (N lO 

III 




•^ CN fr> •<1< »0 vd t^ 00 o\ ^ 


«. 


^ «s t^ 




ca,&.a,CL,a.aa,ac 


I- c 


1. . . . 




333333333 = 


4. 


o o o 
12; iz; Iz; 




OOOOOOOOOC 


1/ 

c 




C 


) C 


) C 


) C 


C 


) C 


C 


c 


c 


C 


c 


) 



to 2 

^ 2 
-t-i 

.5 0^ 
c 



.!=! 0) 

o cj i: 

C c ■>-> 

■-3 "^ ^ 

■> g -M 



C uo ^ 



M (V) 



4^ ti 



<U 






<u 



o ^ 



O «'3 



^ >^a 



c3 -o 



O) 



(U 






O c3 



d 






■5 -^ 

■a I 

o 

o ^ 

3 ^ 



2 c3 b 
> fciD (^ 



(U 



<u 



s ^ 

W3 ri h 

■" 5 y 

r- 3 C3 

5 <^ 

J. •^ Q 

S |.^ 






"^ ^ "n 



2 2 



«J .Si 

'o '3 i_r 

ifl o ^ 

trt 2 <l> 

(U TO (/J 









c -5 



-a 

'> 
o 

2^o 



a-5 ^ 



^ ^-zi 



to 

a 









Ti It 
O w 



S3 <^ 

1-^ 



13 



-a 

o 



C^ .4^ 



>< o 






5i ?? 2 

- 2:2 S 

too > 



>, S 



o 2i 
., o 



6 -2 - --S 



«3 



-O ^ TD 

o o 3 
o P„ -^ *-' 



^(2 






X3 



506 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

A PLEA FOR AMERICAN COOKERY AND HOME DISHES 

Most of us who have tasted both American and foreign cooking 
prefer our home dishes, when well prepared, to anything else for a steady 
diet. Those who travel much and those who depend upon restaurants 
and hotels miss these home dishes and wish they couid get them. Some 
of the more progressive hotels realize the importance of this matter 
and have tried to remedy it by installing home kitchens as a part of 
their equipment. Some of the best restaurants, dining-cars, cafes, and 
cafeterias also specialize on ''home" food. For instance, one evidence 
that the wishes of the traveling pubUc are not being overlooked, is shown 
by the Northern Pacific Railway, which has adopted "home" foods 
and "home" cookery in its dining-car service. A book of instructions 
for dining-car stewards and chefs on this railway has recently been 
published by G. W. Nelson,^ who makes the following statement: 

"The art of cookery in all its branches is in such process of evolution 
that a few years only are sufficient to completely change the methods 
of preparing dishes once enthusiastically received by the pubhc. Our 
departure from French and French cookery, and the adoption of plain 
EngHsh designations, and the plain home-like cookery have won the 
approval of our patrons. The variety of food products adaptable to 
dining-car service is small compared to that which the large hotel may 
use with imlimited combinations. We have, therefore, given you a 
limited specification of dishes that may be run on your specials, together 
with their prices, and you will strictly confine your menu-making to 
those things designated, and do not at any time run anything on your 
specials that deviate from the instructions. All dishes must be pre- 
pared according to the recipes which we provide, and these, together 
with the portion list will be issued to you in circular form." 

TABLE NAPKINS IN HISTORY 

Generally discarded from fashionable tables at the close of the eighteenth century, the 
napkin was seldom used or seen by the more modest epicures of Horace Walpole's time. 
A finger glass and a dessert doily in George the Third's time were placed on the table, on 
the removal of the cloth, and the latter was regarded as the elegant and sufficient substitute 
for the old table towel. — The Table. 



>■ Hotel Monthly, 29 (1921), no. 33i, pp. 58 and 59. 



FOR THE HOxMEMAKER 

THE ROMAN KITCHEN 

CORNELIA G. HARCUM 
The Royal Ontario Museum of A rchaeology, Toronto 

"We may live without poetry, music, and art; 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends; we may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks. " 

Nor can he live long without an organized kitchen. Primitive man 
prepared his meals in the open air; so no doubt did the Roman shep- 
herds in the days before Rome was the city of the seven hills. In very 
early times, however, man provided himself with shelter and cooked his 
meals beneath that shelter. 

The Roman house was at first quite simple. The only room, or at 
least the principal room, was the the atrium. In it all the life of the 
fam.ily centered. Here was placed the marriage couch; here the mistress 
of the house worked at spinning with her maids. In the center of this 
room there was a large hearth which was used both as an altar on which 
sacrifice was offered to the gods, and as a kitchen range for cooking food. 
Just above the hearth, a hole in the roof served as a chimney to let out 
smoke. Such a primitive arrangement was no doubt very defective and 
the accumulation of soot must have blackened the ceiling and rendered 
the kitchen anything but attractive. Indeed the word atrium may be 
derived from ater, black, and so mean the black room. In the atrium too 
the family dined and perhaps slept as well. 

This early simplicity of the Romans prevailed much longer in the 
country districts than in the city of Rome. In country houses the atrium, 
which was the kitchen as well, long remained the center of the social life 
of the family, as has the kitchen in farm-houses of a later time. But in 
the city the growth of refinement soon banished the preparation of food 
from the atrium which now became a more elegant room. Probably as 
early as the days of Plautus, 254-184 B.C., a special room for cooking, 

507 



508 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

called the culina, had been added to the Roman house. Certainly such 
a room is mentioned several times in the plays of that author. 

The culina, or kitchen, was usually a small room located in an unobtru- 
sive part of the house. Vitruvius, a Roman writer on architecture, 
advised that it be placed on the warmest side of the court. Varro re- 
commended that it be in the posterior part of the house. The same ad- 
vice was given by Columella who explained that it should be far from the 
bedrooms and living rooms of the family on account of danger from fire. 
The kitchen, however, is too humble to figure largely in Latin literature 
and we must depend chiefly on archaeological excavations for accurate 
information concerning it. Old Vesuvius made things decidedly un- 
pleasant for the inhabitants of Pompeii on a certain day in 79 A. D. ; but 
by covering that city deep with lava it rendered a real service to men of 
modern times, for nowhere has antiquity been so literally caught alive 
as in this buried city. In one of the houses unearthed, a pot stood on 
the hearth ready to prepare the daily meal. At Pompeii, where every 
house had a kitchen, the room was usually small with no fixed location. 
In accordance with the recommendations of the authors it was generally 
in a rather remote corner where it would least interfere with the arrange- 
ment of the rest of the house. Even in the more pretentious houses at 
Pompeii the size is not more than sixteen by nineteen feet ; but the estab- 
lishments of the rich at Rome no doubt contained larger kitchens. 

Near the kitchen there was sometimes a bakery with mill and oven, 
though after 171 B.C., in the city of Rome at least, bread was usually 
made in public bake-shops. In many of the larger houses as in the 
House of the Faun and the House of the Silver Wedding at Pompeii, 
there was a bath, which by an ingenious idea of the Pompeian architect 
was placed next to the kitchen for facility in heating water. If there was 
a stable, as in the Villa Rustica at Boscoreale, it, too, opened into the 
kitchen. Near the kitchen were also one or more small store rooms for 
provisions, and, in the House of the Vettii at Pompeii, a small room which 
may have been for the cook. One would naturally expect to find the 
dining-room in close proximity to the room for preparing food. The 
army of slaves in the Roman world probably rendered this arrangement 
less necessary than at the present time, for these rooms were not always 
adjoining. Sometimes, however, there was a hole in the wall between 
them so that food could be passed from one to the other. 

How was the Roman kitchen furnished? Not so differently from the 
kitchen of today as one might suppose. The most important feature 
was, of course, the hearth which corresponds to the modern kitchen range. 



1921] THE ROMAN KITCHEN 509 

This was built of masonry against one of the walls. Fire was made on 
top, and underneath there was occasionally a hollow place in which fuel 
was kept. Sometimes the hearth had projections of masonry rising above 
it on which utensils were supported over the fire, sometimes they rested 
on tripods. Near the hearth there was occasionally a small oven not 
large enough to have been used for bread, but probably intended for 
pastrv. 

Over the hearth there was a window to let out smoke. In addition to 
the hearth of masonry the Roman kitchen frequently contained a small 
portable stove in which charcoal was burned. One of these in the Naples 
Museum has at one end four movable cross-bars for broiling, and, at 
the other, two round frames to hold cooking utensils. The kitchen 
table was necessary then as now. Sometimes this was of masonry with 
top of white marble; sometimes, no doubt, it was of wood. To complete 
the kitchen one finds even a sink provided with pipes to carry off water 
and waste. 

So far the Roman kitchen was not altogether unlike our own, but in 
one respect, it was rather unique. We should scarcely think of decking 
the walls of a modern kitchen with frescoes or paintings, but the walls of 
several Pompeian kitchens show remains of such decoration. In the 
house which is called the House of the Silver Wedding, there are vestiges 
of a painting of two household gods and near them a serpent coiled about 
an altar, representing the genius of the place. On the walls of another 
house is the goddess of Fortune with a cornucopia symbolic of plenty. 
Not only were there paintings of the household gods in the kitchen, but 
occasionally a niche for images of these gods was placed high up in the 
wall. The Villa Rustica at Boscoreale has a niche ornamented to repre- 
sent the facade of a diminutive temple. 

In addition to furniture and paintings, the ancient kitchen was finally 
fully equipped with all necessary utensils, in many respects the direct 
ancestors of those of today. Time and experience have enab ed us to 
improve even on the practical Roman from the point of view of utility, 
yet with the exception of the fireless cooker, aluminum ware, and elec- 
trical appliances there are few modem utensils which were not found in 
an ancient kitchen. In artistic qualities, however, the cooking utensils 
of the ancients were superior to those of our own day, for they always 
combine simplicity of form with beauty of line and proportion. 

In the early days ofthe Roman Republic there were in the average 
home very few cooking utensils, for few were needed. The national diet 



510 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

of the early Romans consisted of a kind of porridge called pulse, which 
preceded even bread as an article of food. This was cooked in a wide- 
mouthed open bowl as were also the vegetables which completed the meal 
of the Roman peasant. By wealthier Romans a public chef corres- 
ponding somewhat to our caterer was employed for an occasion more 
elaborate than the family dinner. Professional cooks took their stand 
in the market-place with their utensils, and were hired to prepare a 
wedding feast, a dinner party, or a birthday entertainment. They took 
to the home of their employer, as does the modern caterer, both their 
assistants and their utensils. 

Later, Roman life became gradually more complex and daily meals 
more elaborate. When the army returned from the East, after the war 
with Antiochus, oriental luxury invaded Rome, bringing, among other 
things, dainty dishes and cooks from Asia Minor. As cooks became more 
numerous and meals more elaborate, utensils for their preparation were 
multiplied. There were kettles of various shapes and sizes for boiling 
vegetables, fowl, and meat;pronged forks for taking meat from caldrons; 
frying and baking pans both round and oblong; gridirons for broiling 
and spits for roasting a large piece of meat or the whole boar which 
formed the piece de resistance of a formal dinner party. There were also 
saucepans of various shapes and sizes. In Pompeii, pans with inden- 
tures which seem to have been used for frying eggs or for cooking small 
cakes have come to light. Bread pans or moulds were very early, and 
loaves baked in them have been found at Pompeii. There were also 
pastry moulds of fancy design, colanders, kitchen knives, ladles, spoons, 
sieves, and mortars and pestles for pounding the condiments so lavishly 
used by the Romans as well as for crushing grain. Both balances and 
steel-yards were used for weighing the quantity of the ingredients in a 
recipe, and measuring utensils of various sizes have also been found. 
Petronius even mentions a hand-mill of boxwood for grinding pepper, and 
there is in the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto^ an article which was 
probably a meat-chopper. Of course the kitchen of olden days contained 
also a number of vessels used for storing grain, oil, and honey, the ancient 
substitute for sugar. 

' Roman cooking utensils may be seen today in almost every museum, and the Royal 
Ontario Museum of Archaeology in Toronto is fortunate, not only in possessing many indi- 
vidual pots and pans, but also in having a fairly complete kitchen outfit of a single house. 
It was found near Thebes and contains twenty-seven pieces of bronze designed chiefly for 
stewing or boiling. 



1921] THE ROMAN KITCHEN 511 

The materials of Roman cooking utensils were chiefly three: terra- 
cotta, bronze, and iron. In the days when luxury prevailed in Rome 
some of them were made of more expensive materials. In Petronius we 
read of a silver griU which was brought to Trimalchio 's table. 

The small size of many of these vessels does not indicate that the 
Romans were gourmands. In this connection one must bear in mind 
the fact that the French, our connoisseurs in modem cookery, still use 
small utensils and that food is most delicious when prepared in small 
quantities. 

WTiere were these utensils made? The question naturally arises, as one 
studies in detail the cooking utensils which have been found in such num- 
bers in Pompeii and other parts of Italy, in Egypt, and all the Roman 
colonies, and notes their similarity. Their number suggests that the 
industry of their manufacture must have been a large one, for in spite of 
the fact that many have been thrown away in rubbish heaps because 
archaeologists have deemed them of little importance in comparison with 
other treasures turned up by the spade, a great many still remain. 
Their similarity indicates community of manufacture, and it is probable 
that the great majority of bronze vessels, kitchen utensils included, 
came from extensive factories at Capua, which were busy from the first 
century B.C. to the third century A.D. These Capuan wares had a 
wide sale. Not only were the best products used for the luxurious 
Italian and Greek houses, but there was an active export trade in them 
to the north as far as Scotland and northern Sweden. The factory sys- 
tem in Italy in ancient days, however, was probably confined to few in- 
dustries. Roman laws did not favor corporations, and there were few 
men at Rome sufficiently wealthy to establish factories, for, although 
slave labor was cheap, materials were expensive. 

The Roman kitchen was, then, not so very different from our own. 
If one may trust Latin authors, even the chef had some of the character- 
istics of his successor of today. He was ingenious, thie\dsh, witty, 
greasy, and inclined to be boastful. One of the cooks in the comedies of 
Plautus brags that even Jupiter feasts on the odors from his saucepans, 
and that, when he does not cook, the king of gods goes hungry to bed. 
Another ancient cook claims that when he removes the lids from his 
kettles even mourners, returning from a funeral, smile. 



512 THE JOURNAL OF HOiCE ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

THE SYRACUSE HOME BUREAU 

EDITH M. BARBER 
In Charge of the Bureau 

The Syracuse Home Bureau Thrift Kitchen, although a veteran of 
the war, is still in business helping the homes and the community of 
Syracuse with problems of living. The Thrift Kitchen, organized by 
the New York State Food Commission during the war, became a part 
of the New York State and Federal extension work at the close of the 
war, and is the headquarters of the Syracuse Home Bureau whose 
scope is as wide as its name indicates. 

The Kitchen which was excellently equipped for canning during the 
food conservation days is still used for that purpose during the season. 
Women bring their vegetables, fruits, and jars and do their canning 
under the direction of the trained workers on the staff of the Home Bureau. 
One thousand more jars were done in the season of 1920 than during the 
war year of 1918. The large pressure cookers are used in the winter also 
by organizations preparing in large quantities for suppers and sales. 
A small charge is made to cover the cost of fuel. 

The Kitchen is also used for classes in food and nutrition work con- 
ducted for housewives, for girls' clubs, for public health nurses, and 
for volunteer aids; and it has also been used for the dressmaking and 
millinery classes. As the food and clothing work have been overlapping 
too much for comfort, another room which connects with the office 
has been rented to be used for the clothing classes and for a Woman's 
Exchange which the Home Bureau is promoting and which will open 
as an outlet for handmade articles this fall. 

One of the largest services rendered by the Bureau is the information 
service. The telephone rings constantly wdth requests for all kinds of 
information. The questions range from "How much sugar shall I 
use for jelly?" to "WiU you help me to plan a diabetic diet for my 
husband?" and from ''How can I take out a peach stain from my best 
tablecloth? " to "What kind of a refrigerator do you recommend? " The 
slogan "Call Warren 8079. Ask the Home Bureau" justifies itself. 
There are many personal calls at the office where special help is given for 
individual problems, and a large attendance on Home Bureau Day, 
Friday of each week, when a talk or demonstration is given. 

All the Home Bureau acti\d ties, 'however, are not centered in the Thrift 
Kjtchen; cooperation is given to all health and civic agencies in the 



1921] THE SYRACUSE HOME BUREAU 513 

city. An active part was taken by the Home Bureau in organizing a 
milk campaign undertaken by the combined health agencies of the 
city which raised the consumption of milk twenty-five per cent. Follow- 
up work was done throughout the year and a yearly milk week instituted. 
Nutrition classes are held in cooperation with the doctors and nurses 
in school time, and accurate records kept in an endeavor to make nutri- 
tion instruction part of the regular school program. Classes are held 
to help public health nurses to deal more easily with the large problems 
of nutrition which they meet daily. When possible, classes in home- 
making are conducted in social centers for organizations requesting such 
help. In fact, as far as its staff of four workers allows, the Home 
Bureau acts as a clearing house for homemaking problems. Several 
more workers could be used to advantage but at present the budget, 
which is provided by a combination of county, city, and private funds, 
permits of no increase in the staff. Under the present interpretation of 
the Smith-Lever law, federal funds cannot be used for city work, although 
we have the advantage of the franking privilege and the cooperation and 
supervision of the extension service of the New York State College of 
Agriculture. 

That city women, as well as country women, need and demand the 
services of the Home Bureau is shown by the constant use which they 
make of it in the few cities where it is organized. Over five hundred 
women show their appreciation by paying a dollar a year membership 
fee. This, however, gives them no more privileges than the non-member, 
except that of showing materially their interest in better homes and a 
better community, which is the aim of the Home Bureau. 



One of the difficulties encoimtered in the manufacture of ice cream 
is the formation of small gritty particles. These are found to consist 
of tiny crystals of lactose or milk sugar which are quite hard and when 
present cause the ice cream to be described as "sandy." This subject 
is now receiving study by the Dairy Division of the Department of 
Agriculture, which is trying to determine the conditions under which 
these crystals form so that they can be avoided in the industrial manu- 
facture of ice cream. 



EDITORIAL 

Will you help to increase the circulation of the Journal through 
regular subscriptions, student subscriptions, or renewals? The oflScial 
pubHcation of the American Home Economics Association should be 
in the hands of every woman trained in home economics, or interested 
in any phase of this broad field; in the Hbrary of every school and 
college offering courses in home economics. Here is the record of one 
interested woman, Miss Milam, Oregon Agricultural College, who sent 
letters to a number of colleges urging subscription campaigns: 575 
student subscriptions, 23 full rate subscriptions, 9 memberships. 
Miss jNIilam had previously carried on a campaign at Oregon Agri- 
cultural College which resulted in 52 new subscriptions and 15 renewals. 

Returns from schools who sent in 15 or more subscriptions are as 
follows : 

Oregon Agricultural College. . . .67 Stevens Point Normal 26 

University of California 53 Simmons College 24 

University of Illinois 53 Lewis Institute 21 

Ohio State University 38 Stout Institute 18 

University of Minnesota 3)2 Pratt Institute 16 

Will you help to make the Journal mdely interesting by sending 
us material or getting other workers to do so? We want concise 
articles, reports, opinions, ideas, news, from the teacher, the research 
worker, the extension worker, the homemaker, the institutional worker, 
the bank consultant, and all other representatives of home economics 
work. We want to make your Journal better and bigger. The 
executive committee has appointed the following associate editors to 
keep in touch with various departments: Day Monroe and the Executive 
Secretary, News; Edith Barber and Mrs. Hazzard, Social Welfare; 
Florence Ward, Extension; Katharine Blunt, Foods; Cora Winchell, 
Education; Ruth O'Brien, Textiles; Henrietta French, Institutional 
Economics; Alice Biester, BibHography. 

Will you use the Journal? Miss Harris, Office of Extension North 
and West, U. S. Department of Agriculture, has just written: "We 
are sending out to our home demonstration agents references to the 
articles by Miss Bailey, Miss Denton and Mrs. Yeatman, and will call 
attention to the New York Item." Many of our contributions are 
valuable and usable. 

We have 6,000 subscribers. 
Help us to make it 10,000 by Christmas. 

514 



1921] EDITORIAL 515 

High Fat in Diabetic Diets. Dr. Max Kahn^ recently pointed 
out the necessity for limiting the fat intake of diabetics as the only 
means of preventing acidosis. Fenlon^ reported successful treatment of 
diabetic patients by restricting the fat, maintaining the protein intake 
at a moderate level, and rapidly reducing the carbohydrate until gly- 
cosuria disappears. The tolerance is built up by gradual addition of 
carbohydrate, and finally the fat allowance is increased until it approxi- 
mately equals the protein. These points of view are in accord with the 
custom of giving a diet low in caloric value made up largely of protein, 
because of the necessity for omitting carbohydrate, and because of the 
fear of producing acidosis if more than a minimum of fat is allowed. 

A different point of view is emphasized by Newburgh and Marsh'' who 
maintain that a high protein diet either produces glycosuria, from 
being too liberal, or renders the patient unfit for daily activities, if it is 
too restricted. They have studied the effect of high fat, low protein, 
low carbohydrate diets in the treatment of 73 diabetics, most of them 
severe cases. A patient on entering the clinic or hospital is placed on a 
diet of 900 calories derived from about 90 grams fat, 10 grams protein, and 
14 grams carbohydrate. After the patient has been sugar free for 1 to 2 
weeks, his diet is increased to about 1400 calories, representing 140 grams 
fat, 28 grams protein, and 15 to 20 grams carbohydrate. For large 
indi\dduals a second increase is made, later, reaching about 1800 calories, 
with 170 grams fat, 30 to 40 grams protein, and 25 to 30 grams carbo- 
hydrate. By the use of high fat diets not only are they able to prevent 
the appearance of glycosuria but existing glycosuria is cleared up; the 
excretion of acetone bodies ceases soon after the adoption of this treat- 
ment; satisfactory nitrogen balance is maintained; the patients leave the 
hospital and clinic much improved and are in excellent physical condition 
months afterwards.^ 

' Kahn, M.: Problems of the Dietitian in the Care of Outpatient Poor Suffering from 
DisesLsesoiMetaholism, Jour. Home Econ., 13(1921), p. 213. 

* Fenlon, R. L.: Retention of Protein During Diet Reduction to Relieve the Glycosuria 
in Diabetes Mellitus, Amer. Jour. Med. Set., 131 (1921), p. 193. 

3 Newburgh, L. H., and Marsh, P. L.: The Use of a High Fat Diet in the Treatment of 
Diabetes Mellitus, Arch. Int. Med., 26 (1920), p. 647. 

* It is of significance to home economics workers that the management of the special diets, 
their choice and computation to meet the requirements, their preparation and administration 
to the patients, and their recording, were under the supervision of Dorothy M. Stewart, 
Dietitian in the University of Michigan Hospital. 



516 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Thrice Boiled Vegetables For Diabetic Patients. Definite infor- 
mation on the actual carbohydrate content of thrice boiled vegetables 
presented in recent papers is welcome to those planning diabetic diets. 
The assumption that changing the water several times during boiling 
of vegetables effects a more complete removal of the carbohydrate 
appears to be correct; in the case of some vegetables practically all 
of the carbohydrate can be so removed provided a sufficiently large 
volume of water is used in boiling. O 'Reilly and McCabe^ show that 
20 parts of water to 1 of vegetable in each of the 3 extractions are 
more effective than 10 parts of water, and are sufficient to render 
vegetable marrow, lettuce, and celery carbohydrate-free, and canned 
spinach, canned asparagus, turnips, beets, and onions approximately 
free, while other vegetables studied retain small percentages of 
carbohydrate. Increasing the number of extractions of vegetables 
with hot water was found by WardalP to remove the carbohydrate 
more completely. Cammidge^ states that with a large excess of water 
in thrice boilirg there is difference in the completeness of removal of 
carbohydrate from different vegetables. Ten and twenty-four per cent, 
respectively, of the carbohydrate of the raw vegetable remained in 
the thrice boiled cabbage and cauliflower analyzed by Olmsted.* From 
available data it appears that vegetables boiled once retain one-half 
to two-thirds of their carbohydrate, while those boiled three times 
generally contain less than one-third of the carbohydrate of the raw 
vegetable. 

That the time of boiling, the size of the pieces into which the vege- 
tables are cut, and especially the volume of boiling water used are the 
chief factors in the removal of carbohydrate is shown in the papers 
cited and also in one by Myers and CrolP, where evidence is presented 
to show that a large proportion of the carbohydrate of many vegetables 
and fruits occurs in a soluble form ; this is emphasized as another impor- 
tant factor in carbohydrate removal by boihng vegetables. These 

1 O'Reilly, L. and McCabe, E. H.: The Available Carbohydrate in Thrice Boiled 
Vegetables, Jour. Biol. Chem., 46, 83 (1921). 

'^Wardall, R A.: Vegetable Foods for the Diabetic, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn. 69, 1859 
(1917). 

3 Cammidge, P. J.: Boiled Vegetables for the Use of Diabetics, The Lancet, 2, 1192 (1919). 

* Olmsted, W. H. : Availability of Carbohydrate in Certain Vegetables, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
41,45(1920). 

'Myers V. C. and Croll H. M.: The Determination of Carbohydrates in Vegetable 
Foods, Jour. Biol. Chem., 46, 537 (1921). 



1921] EDITORIAL 517 

facts should increase the use of such vegetables in diabetic diets, since 
they are a pleasing addition to monotonous diets and do not necessitate 
overstepping the limits set for the carbohydrate intake. 

Standards of Child Nutrition. When children live in surround- 
ings nearly approaching the ideal, they grow and develop at a faster 
rate than those less fortunate. Benedict and Talbot^ have recently 
weighed and measured 1209 boys and girls of several of the private 
schools in the neighborhood of Boston and eastern Massachusetts where 
surroundings, food, and medical care are practically unsurpassed. They 
have compared the height and weight of these children with that of 
other children, studied by them also, living in less favorable surroundings 
and also with the measurements of Holt, Wood, and others. Holt's 
measurements were made on boys of a public school in a better-class 
neighborhood of New York City, and Wood 's on pupils of the Horace 
Mann school, connected with Columbia University. Wood's tables of 
height and weight measurements are included in so much of the material 
sent out by the different organizations dealing with the problem of the 
underweight school child, that his averages are perhaps more used than 
any others in judging the state of a child 's nutrition. 

The children of the private schools are taller and heavier than Wood 's 
public school children. The private school boys are distinctly larger 
individuals both in height and in weight than the "average" boy of the 
same age, and the authors believe that everything points to the desira- 
bility of this more rapid growth. Raising our standards of child nutri- 
tion from the "average" to the "ideal" plane will increase still more the 
amount of recognized undernutrition in our country. 

What the food allowance must be to provide for such a rapid growth 
in normal, active children can only be estimated. A proper determina- 
tion of the total food needs of children can probably never be completely 
and satisfactorily made from gaseous metabolism experiments on 
account of the necessary, extra demands of growth. That our standard 
for food allowances for children has tended to be low, however, seems 
undoubtedly true. Benedict and Talbot give as an approximate figure 
the calorie output of boys as 75 per cent above the basal metaboUsm for 
their time spent in the school room. This would bring the calorie need 
of a ten year old boy to about 2000 without allowing for the vigorous 
exercise of playing, which would raise it still higher. The final state- 

» Benedict, F. G., and Talbot, F. B.: Metabolism and Growth from Birth to Puberty. 
Carnegie Institute of Washington, Pub. No. 302 (1921). 



518 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

ment of Benedict and Talbot is very pertinent: "One could infer, there- 
fore, from these observations, that, aside from the possibilities of diges- 
tive derangements, it would be impossible to supply the growing child 
with an excessive amount of food. Every effort may legitimately be 
expended to secure a maximum skeletal growth and the development of 
children above so-called average weight. We believe that our investiga- 
tion shows clearly that the average weight for children is distinctly 
below the ideal or physiologically desirable weight. " 

THE OPEN FORUM 

Helping the Housewife. The following extracts from Mrs. Abel's 
report as state chairman of home economics for the General Federation 
of Women's Clubs of Maryland, may offer valuable suggestions as to 
ways in which clubs and home economics associations may help the 
women of their communities. 

1. A regular weekly class has been held in Baltimore on Monday 
evenings, led by teachers from the staff of the Extension Division of the 
University of Maryland, on such subjects as Household Equipment, the 
Buying of Food, the Family Budget. 

2. Through the generous cooperation of the University of Maryland 
a complete list of home economics acti\'ities under the title "What is 
going on in home economics in Baltimore" was mailed to a long list of 
women presumably interested in the subject. Doubtless the same co- 
operation could be secured another year in spreading the information as to 
courses of instruction offered in the evening classes in the high schools and 
given by the Y. W. C. A., the Red Cross, and other organizations. 

3. It has been your chairman's privilege to assist by advice in the 
development of a service which has been greatly needed. The house- 
wife has a right to disinterested expert advice in the buying of her house- 
hold equipment and in the best methods of running her house as much as 
the farmer has a right to have fertilizers analyzed or seeds tested. 

Dr. Leha Powers of the Y.W.C.A. has been allowed by her Board of 
Managers to carry on an exhibit, on Saturday mornings, of household 
appliances and methods, and has herself been present with her assistants 
to answer the questions of visitors. The object has been to show the 
principles on which various kinds of equipment should be constructed 
(e.g. refrigerators, washing machines). Much attention has been given 
to laundry methods, labor saving devices, and healthful postures in doing 
housework. It is hoped that this valuable service may be continued. 



1921] THE OPEN FORUM 519 

Developing Unselfishness in the Clothing Class.' We have often 
heard our clothing work criticized on the ground that it is apt to 
develop selfishness. The girls make garments for themselves only, as a 
rule, study styles which are suitable to their own figure and coloring, 
and are seldom asked to do anything for others. Making curtains 
and other furnishings for the school needs is a step in the right direction, 
and since the war many other opportunities have arisen which serve as 
a means of using the clothing class to develop good citizens who are 
trained to think of the needs of others. 

The clothing classes in our high school have made rompers for the 
day nursery, curtains for the girls' reserve room of the Y. W. C. A., 
and are now completing another project which has offered abundant 
training in unselfishness. The project has been so "ahve" and varied 
that the unselfish interest aroused has been more or less spontaneous, 
and has gathered momentum of itself as the project has progressed. 
The class is furnishing the greater part of the clothing for spring and 
summer for a little orphan girl in Carson College, a home for orphan 
girls, Flourtown, Pennsylvania. 

The girls in Carson College are allowed a certain amount for clothing 
each month, depending upon their age, and Ahce, eleven years old, 
is allowed $8.00 per month. We were given a Hst of the clothes she 
had on hand, and also a list of the clothes she would need for spring 
and summer. Thus we had a real budget project to work upon with 
$48 (sLx months allowance) as our Umit. This $48 had to include some 
things, of course, which we could not make for her, such as shoes and 
hose, but they had to be considered. As the first step in the project, 
each girl handed in a budget, apportioning the money to the best of 
her abiHty. We talked over these budgets as a class, and decided upon 
a fair estimate for each article. This necessitated practice in calculating 
the amount of material needed for the different garments, and a knowl- 
edge of the current prices for standard materials. The girls then read 
over the Hst of the clothing that AHce would need, and wrote their 
names opposite the garments they wished to make for her. Before 
any purchases were made, the girls brought samples of materials to 
class, and each garment was discussed and the samples criticized by 
the class as a whole in regard to color, durability, and appropriateness. 
The actual purchases were then made by the girls themselves. The 

' From Homemaking in Wisconsin: Home Economics Teachers' Exchange Ideas, com- 
piled by Helen Goodsoeed. 



520 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

cash slips were all kept and are to be turned in to the school where 
Alice lives, after which the money will be refunded. Very grave and 
sometimes almost heated consultations have been held over certain 
garments, as, for instance, when the makers of the spring cape, the 
Sunday dress, and the spring hat, were coming to an agreement in 
regard to the colors for these garments which would be worn at the 
same time. 

The project has also been of benefit to the girls, in that it necessitated 
an understanding of children's clothes, both in regard to the type of 
garments worn by children of this age, and also in regard to the hygiene 
of clothing, the type of materials best suited for children's clothing, and 
other points. 

We have not intended to introduce any new problems in construction 
as such, but have laid stress upon the budget problem, the study of 
children's clothes, and the social aspect of the project. AHce is to 
write us soon, and we are expecting pictures of her when she receives 
her new wardrobe, and of course this all tends to interest us more. We 
are quite sure that the garments will fit her because we have a list of 
all her measurements, and have altered the patterns accordingly. We 
have also borrowed a Httle girl of Alice's size and tried the garments 
on her from time to time. 

This project has led to a real "social consciousness" on the part of 
the class. So many offers of out-grown clothing have come from the 
class that we have adopted children here in Madison, whom we are 
helping from time to time. 

Helen Comstock, 
Instructor, Wisconsin High School. 

We keep material on hand from the associated charities. This has 
helped to solve the problem of furnishing work for the girl who has 
completed the assigned problem before the others or for some reason 
is not supphed with the necessary material. As the material furnished 
consists of partly worn garments to be made over, as well as new material, 
the problem furnishes ideas in economy. Some of the articles made are: 
rompers from men's partly worn shirts; blouses and bloomers from 
new and old material; small pieced baby blankets; plain dresses and 

aprons. 

Mildred Alexander, 
East High School, Green Bay. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Vilamines — Essential food factors. By Ben- 
jamin Harrow, Ph.D. New York: E. P. 
Dutton and Co., pp. 219, 1921. $2.50. 
Writing in a simple and discursive style 
Dr. Harrow has brought together most of 
the general facts of nutrition, particularly 
those relating to vita mines, into a book 
for the "popular" reader. The material is 
presented in a manner easy to follow and 
at the same time subject matter which 
might be assumed to be too technical for 
the average reader is not glossed over but 
is brought out by analogy or pains-taking 
explanation. Likewise, the use of curves so 
much in use in presenting the results of 
vitamine studies is adopted through the 
simple expedient of explaining the prepara- 
tion of a curve. In introducing new ma- 
terial Dr. Harrow has incorporated consider- 
able historical data which is not only instruc- 
tive but helps to develop interest in the 
subject. 

As a background for the discussion of 
vitamines the reader is instructed with 
regard to food-stuffs and their uses in the 
body, including a discussion of the relative 
value of proteins from different sources. 
Following this material comes a discussion 
of vitamines, proof of their existence, their 
occurrence, and relations to specific diseases 
with which they are associated. In the 
appendix is a collection of references for 
more extended reading. 

In his discussion of pellagra Dr. Harrow 
states that this disease results from a 
deficient diet, per se. This definite attitude 
is unfortunate, for not all of the evidence 
is in favor of a dietary deficiency, in the 
most general sense of the word, as the 
fundamental cause of the disease. The 
infection theory has not entirely been dis- 
proved. On the other hand, aU who have 
studied the problem admit that a deficient 
diet may have an important part in devel- 



oping a predisposition to the disease and 
that an adequate diet is an important factor 
in insurance against the disease and in 
bringing about recovery. 

Among those who believe that pellagra is 
the result of an agent other than a food 
deficiency, some have worked in the same 
districts as the investigators cited by Dr. 
Harrow as champions of the dietary defi- 
ciency theory. The Thompson Pellagra Com- 
mission, working in part in Spartanburg 
County, S. C, holds that a living organism 
of unidentified nature appears to be the 
specific cause of the disease. (For a sum- 
mary of their reports see MacNeal, Atner. 
Jour. Med. Sci., 1921, cbd, 469.) Enright 
(Lancet, 1920, cxlviii, 998) has described an 
outbreak of pellagra in a camp of German 
prisoners in Egypt in which the diet was 
excellent. It was this group of prisoners 
which was cited by the British Committee 
of Inquiry, and quoted by Dr. Harrow, as 
being adequately fed and having few cases 
of pellagra in contrast with the Turkish 
prisoners, whose diet had been inadequate 
and had developed many cases of pellagra. 
Emnght does not advance a specific cause 
for the outbreak but does hold that a food 
deficiency was not the only factor involved. 
In the light of such evidence it is only right 
that we should retain an open mind with 
regard to the cause of pellagra. 

WTiile the book is not essentially a text, 
or reference book it should find use as col- 
lateral reading in courses on nutrition, such 
as in normal schools or in colleges where the 
previous training of the student is not suffi- 
cient for the use of the more detailed scien- 
tific discussions of nutrition. As a popular 
treatise on nutrition, for which the book 
was intended, it is excellent. 

Paul E. Howe, 
Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. 

521 



522 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



Household Arts for Home and School. By 

Anna M. Cooley and VVilhelmina H. 

Spohr. New York: The Macmillan Co., 

Vols. I and II, 1920. 

Much has been written during the past 
few years on the project method of teaching, 
but few text books have been produced 
which exemplify that method. Among 
those few, however, is this book which is 
designed for use in the home as well as in 
the elementary and junior high schools. It 
is written in narrative form, the story being 
the history of events in Sunnyside Apart- 
ment at the Ellen H. Richards School. This 
apartment, in which two of the home eco- 
nomics teachers lived, was used as a practice 
house for the girls studj'ing household arts. 

Volume I tells what the girls learned 
about the family budget, liome furnishing, 
the care of the baby, textiles, and the selec- 
tion of clothing. The furnishing of the 
apartment ofifered problems for the sewing 
class. The acquaintance with "Mrs. Ed- 
wards" who lived in the same building, gave 
the students an opportunity to learn some- 
thing concerning the care and the clothing 
of the baby. 

Volume II deals with the care of the home; 
selection, cooking, and serving of food; 
laundering; and hospitality. A food sale 
for the Fair and the preparation of break- 
fast, dinner, and supper were projects around 
which much of this work was organized. 

In the lessons on cookery, principles con- 
trolling processes have been developed, but 
little or no attempt has been made to teach 
fundamental proportions. While the hand- 
ing out of recipes for each specific occasion 
is a quicker method, one questions whether 
it does all that it should to make the indi- 
vidual a self reliant worker. Is it not pos- 
sible to do more to emancipate her from 
too great dependence on the cook book or 
recipe file? 

Unquestionably the work as presented 
will enlist the interest of the young girl, 
because each lesson develops as a result of 
her own every day need or that of some 
one in whom she is interested. 

The practicality of the plan presented in 
the book will no doubt be questioned by 



many on the grounds that its success depends 
to a great degree on the practice house and 
the "model" Edwards family, neither of 
which is apt to be available in the average 
community. 

The book is particularly strong in that 
it gives a breadth of vision concerning the 
responsibilities of the homemaker, and 
shows the possibility of a close relationship 
between the home and school. Neither a 
home economics teacher nor a student, 
after reading this book, could possibly be 
satisfied with courses in mere cooking and 
sewing. While one feels at times that it 
is a bit visionary, it must be remembered 
that the authors have suggested its use in 
connection with the plans and outlines of 
the individual teacher and, if taken in that 
spirit, it cannot fail to be most inspirational 
and helpful to both teacher and pupils. 
Maude Miller, 
University of Minn. 

Vocational Education. Compiled by Emily 
RoBisoN and Julia Johnsen. New 
York: H. W. Wilson Co., 1921, pp. 359. 
$2.25. 

This book is a second and enlarged edition 
of an earlier collection of magazine articles 
and essays in the field of vocational educa- 
tion. An entire revision of the bibliography 
has been made, and a number of new selec- 
tions have been added to make the book 
more nearly complete and up-to-date. 

The selection of materials is wi;e, giving 
expression to many contrary points of view 
and covering all the main divisions of the 
field. The book needs an index, however; 
as it is, one would have difficulty in locating 
references on special topics. The collection 
contains no comprehensive and adequate 
discussion of job analysis, technique of 
teaching, or preparation of teachers, but 
such lacks are not surprising in the field of 
vocational education. 

One cannot read far without developing 
more respect than ever for the pioneers 
who besan their good work of interesting 
educational people in the need for voca- 
tional education so many years before actual 
accomplishments were possible. Many of 



1921J 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



523 



the articles were written before the Smith- 
Hughes Bill was passed or the Federal 
Hoard for Vocational Education eitablished. 
The frequent mention of Germany in some 
of the articles is interesting now and shows 
us how far we have gone toward the develop- 
ment of a plan which can be called trulj- 
American. 

The book contains material which should 
be read by every one interested in the 
modem problems of American education, 
yet much more needs to be said and done 
before we can come to anything like an 
understanding of the aims and methods of 
vocational education. The study and dis- 
cussion of the many viewpoints pre:=ented 
will lead us into more light on this difficult 
and pressing problem. 

The section on household arts is sug- 
gestive for experienced workers in the field, 
but not comprehensive enough to give a 
complete view of the problems. The 
material on industrial education is far 
more comprehensive. The bibliography is 
extensive and well classified and in some 
cases annotated. 

John M. BREv\rER, 
Harvard University. 

The Social Case History: Its Construction 

and Content. By Ada Eliot Sheffield, 

New York: Russel Sage Foundation, 1920, 

pp.227. Sl.OO. 

It is no surprise to find a beauty of order 
set forth in The So''ial Case History which 
distinguishes Mrs. Sheffield's work in her 
own field. Her keen valuation of detail, in 
which a less discerning eye would fail to read 
significance to large issues, characterizes her 
study of family histories. 

The home economics worker wi 1 find in 
this little volume a particular value which the 
title might not suggest. 

The home economics specialist in making 
her contribution to family cohesion needs to 
develop a like critical attitude toward all 
the mass of details which her intimate work 
with the daily life of the family brings to her 
notice. 

In order to see their meaning, to identify 
them as significant, to interpret their rela- 
tion to family solidarity she needs to chart 



out her thinking so that she may gain an 
insight into the family problem and relate it 
to general social welfare. ]\lrs. Sheffield 
offers a challenge to the worker who docs 
not think through a situation, and, by her 
orderly array of llu trations, suggests he 
richness to be derived from discerning values 
in the commonplace. The author defines 
the purpose of a modern case history as a 
body of personal information conserved 
with a view to the three ends of social case 
work: (1) The immediate purpose of effec- 
tive treatment of individual clients; (2) The 
ultimate purpose of general social better- 
ment; and (3) The incidental purpose of 
establishing the case worker herself in criti- 
cal thinking. 

Substitute home economics worker for 
case worker and it will be recognized that 
discussion of these ends is of service to the 
home economics field if the practice of the 
method is not of immediate use. 

Acquaintance with Mrs. Sheffield's book 
will insure its welcome to all whose particu- 
lar concern is the promotion of family 
cohesion. 

Harriet Townsend, 
Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Linen: From the Field to the Finished Product. 

By Alfred S. Moore. London and New 

York: Sir Isaac Pitman and Sons, Ltd., 

1914, pp. 130. Sl.OO. 

This little book is one of Pitman's Common 
Commodities and Industries Series, which 
includes several books that may be of inter- 
est to teachers of home economics for refer- 
ence purposes. Among them are books on 
Tea, Coflee, Sugar, Wheat and Its Products, 
Soap, Furniture, Carpets, Cotton, Silk, Wool, 
Leather, Knitted Fabrics, and Cordage 
Fibers. 

In Linen the author has given an accurate 
and complete, but at the same time popular 
and interesting, description of linen manu- 
facturing in all its phases. His e>piriencc 
of a lifetime spent in the midst of the linen 
industry of Ireland has enabled him to throw 
in many side lights in his account, and the 
picture he sketches gives the feeling of reality 
and has a human interest. 



524 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

In the introductory chapter the history ties is told, and finally the introduction of 

of linen is traced, going back to the prehis- the factory system and the trade conditions 

toric period of ancient Egypt and coming during the two or three years preceding the 

down to the beginnings of linen making in war are described. 

Ireland when some of the Huguenots, exiled Following that portion of the book in 

from their native France, took with them which the production and handling of the 

heir textile skill and started the industry raw material and the manufacturing proc- 

which in time came to be of such importance esses are considered, the final chapters dis- 

in Ireland. The reader is impressed with cuss varieties of linen, methods of grading 

the magnitude of the linen industry as it and testing linen, and marketing problems, 

was before the war, especially the place it In the last two chapters the conditions of 

occupied in Ulster and the north of Ireland. work, trade unions, and wages are given 

Following the historical discussion is a some consideration, 
brief account of the foundation and growth This book is clearly organized, has good 

of the Irish linen trade. There are accounts illustrations, a table of contents and an in- 

of the old Irish Linen Board, of the linen dex. It wiU commend itself to the teacher 

riots of the eighteenth century, and of the of textiles, as good reference material, 
old linen markets. The stor>' of the English Marion Weller, 

and Scotch trade with their system of boun- University of Minnesota. 

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE BULLETINS REPORTING 
WORK OF TFIE OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS' 

Digestibility of Some Animal Fats. By C. F. Langworthy and A. D. Holmes. U. S. 
Dept. Agr. Bui. 310 (1915). (Lard, beef fat, mutton fat, butter.) 5 cents. 

Potatoes, Sweet Potatoes, and Other Starchy Roots as Food. By C. F. Langworthy. 
U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 468 (1917). (A summary and discussion.) Free. 

Fats and Their Economical Use in the Home. By A. D. Holmes and H. L. Lang. U. S. 
Dept. Agr. Bui. 469 (1916). (A summary and discussion.) 5 cents. 

Studies on the Digestibility of the Grain Sorghums. By C. F. Langworthy and A. D. 
Holmes. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 470 (1916). (Com meal, feterita, kafir, kaoliang, milo, 
wheat.) 5 cent. 

Turnips, Beets and Other Succulent Roots, and Their Use as Food. By C. F. Lang- 
worthy. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 503 (1917). (A summary and discussion.) Free. 

Digestibility of Some Vegetable Fats. By C. F. Langworthy and A. D. Holmes. U. S. 
Dept. Agr. Bui. 505 (1917). (Cocoa butter, cocoanut oil, cottonseed oil, olive oil, peanut 
oil, sesame oil.) 5 cents. 

Studies on the Digestibility of Some Animal Fats. By C. F. Langworthy and A. D. 
Holmes. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 507 (1917). (Brisket fat, chicken fat, cream, egg-yolk 
fat, fish fat, goose fat.) 5 cents. 

Experiments in the Determination of the Digestibility of Millets. By C. F. Langworthy 
and A. D. Holmes. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 525 (1917). (Common millet, proso.) Free. 

The Digestibility of the Dasheen. By C. F. Langworthy and A. D. Holmes. U. S. 
Dept. Agr. Bui. 612 (1917). 5 cents. 

Digestibility of Certain Miscellaneous Animal Fats. By A. D. Holmes. U. S. Dept. 
Agr. Bui. 613 (1919). (Goat's butter, hard-palate fat, horse fat, kid fat, oleo oil, oleo 
stearin, ox-marrow fat, ox-tail fat, turtle fat.) Free. 

1 In most cases the edition was small and the Department's quota is exhausted. How- 
ever, the papers can be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Goverrmient 
Printing Oflace, Washington, D. C. for nominal sums as indicated. 



1921] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 525 

Studies on the Digestibility of Some Nut Oils. By A. D. Holmes. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 
630 (1918). (Almond oil, black-walnut oil, Brazil-nut oil, butternut oil, English-walnut 
oil, hickory-nut oil, pecan oil.) 5 cents. 

E.\perimcnts on the Digestibility of Fish. By A. D. Holmes. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 
649 (1918). (Boston mackerel, butterfish, grayfish, salmon.) Free. 

Digestibility of Some Seed Oils. By A. D. Holmes. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 687 (1918). 
(Com oil, soy-bean oil, sunflower-seed oil, Japanese mustard-seed oil, rapeseed oil and charlock 
oil.) 5 cents. 

Digestibility of Protein Supplied by Soy-Bean and Peanut Press-Cake Flours. By A. D. 
Holmes. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 717 (1918). 5 cents. 

E.xperiments on the Digestibility of WTieat Bran in a Diet Without Wheat Flour. By 
A. D. Holmes. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 751 (1919). (Fine wheat bran, unground wheat 
bran.) Free. 

Digestibility of Some By-Product Oils. By A. D. Holmes. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 781 
(1919). (Apricot-kernel oil, cherry-kernel oil, melon-seed oil, peach-kernel oil, pumpkin- 
seed oil, tomato-seed oil.) Free. 

LIST OF ARTICLES PUBLISHED OUTSIDE THE DEPARTMENT 

1917 to date 

(Not available for distribution. May be consulted for references in libraries) 
"The American Papaw and Its Food Value." By C. F. Langworthy. Jour. Home Econ., 

9 (1917), No. 11, pp. 505-511. 

"Guide to the Nation's Dietary Needs." By H. W. Atwater. Annals Amer. Acad. Pol. 
and Soc. Set., Nov. 1917, Pub. No. 1154. 

"Changing a Peace Time Ration for War Time." By C. L. Hunt. Jour. Home Econ., 

10 (1918), No. 8, pp. 371-374. 

"How Agricultural Publications Can Be Obtained." By C. L. Hunt. Gen. Fed. Mag., 
17 (1918), No. 7, pp. 30-31. 

"How Much Food Does It Take to Supply Us with the Calcium We Need." By M. C. 
Denton. Jour. Home Econ., 10 (1918), No. 4, pp. 168-170. 

"Kitchen Tests for Pectin in Jelly-Making." Jour. Home Econ., 10 (1918), No. 11, 
pp. 520-521. 

"Quick Method of Calculating Food Values." By C. L. Hunt. Jour. Home Econ.. 
10 (1918), No. 5, pp. 212-218. 

" Teaching Food Values. " By C. F. Langworthy. Jour. Home Econ., 10 (1918) No. 7, 
pp. 295-302. 

"WTiat Temperature is Reached Inside the Jar During Home Canning?" By M. C. 
Denton. Jour. Home Econ., 10 (1918), No. 12, pp. 548-552. 

"Woman's Committee Survey of Agencies for the Sale of Cooked Food." By H. W. 
Atwater. Jour. Home Econ., 10 (1918), No. 9, pp. 419-424. 

"Centigrade Scale Compared with Fahrenheit." Jour. Home Econ., 11 (1919), No. 3, 
pp. 123, 124. 

"Changes in Food Value of Vegetables Due to Cooking." By M. C. Denton. Jour. 
Home Econ., 11 (1919), No. 4, pp. 143-154 and No. 5, pp. 200-209. 

"Effect of Milling on the Digestibility of Graham Flour." By C. F. Langworthy and 
H. J. Deuel, Jr. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., 5 (1919), No. 11, pp. 514-517. 

"Methods to be Used in the Study of Gas Consumption of the Ordinary Household 
Range." Jour. Home Econ., 11 (1919), No. 4, pp. 158-162. 

"Office of Home Economics. Some Results of Recent Work." By C. F. Langworthy. 
Jour. Home Econ., 11 (1918), No. 1, pp. 13-20. 



526 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

"Office of Home Economics: Some Results of the Work Carried on During the Fiscal 
Year, 1918-1919." By C. F. Langworthy. Jaur. Home Econ., 11 (1919), No. 12, pp. 
519-532. 

"What is Experimental Cookery?" By M. C. Denton. Jour. Home Econ., 11 (1919), 
No. 3. pp. 119-123. 

"Absorption of Fat by Fried Batters and Doughs, and Causes of Variation." By M. C. 
Denton, E. Wengel, and L. Pritchett. Jour. Home Econ., 12 (1920), No. 3 ,pp. 111-127. 

"Digestibility of Certain Miscellaneous Vegetable Fats." By A. D. Holmes and H. J. 
Deuel, Jr. Jour. Biol. Chem., 41 (1920), No. 2, pp. 227-235. 

"Digestibility of Raw Com Starch." By C. F. Langworthy and H. J. Deuel, Jr. Proc. 
Amer. Soc. Biol. Chem., Jour. Biol. Chem. 41 (1920), No. 3, p. L. 

"Digestibility of Raw Corn, Potato, and Wheat Starches." By C. F. Langworthy and 
H. J. Deuel, Jr. Jour. Biol. Chem., 42 (1920), No. 1, pp. 27-40. 

"Digestibility of Raw Rice Starch." By C. F. Langworthy and H. J. Deuel, Jr. Res. 
Communic. et Demons., Cong. Physiol., Paris, July 16-20 (1920), pp. [185-186]. 

"Digestibility of Steam Cooked Soy Beans and Peanuts." By A. D. Holmes. Jour. 
Amer. Med. Assoc, 74 (1920), No. 12, pp. 728-800. 

"Energy Elimination in Gaseous Exchange in Bananas, Pineapples, and Apples." By 
C. F. Langworthy, R. D. Milner, and H. G. Barott. Proc. Amer. Soc. Biol. Chem., Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 41 (1920), No. 3, p. LXIX. 

"Energy Expenditure in Household Tasks." By C. F. Langworthy and H. G. Barott. 
Amer. Jour. Physiol, 52 (1920), No. 2, pp. 406-408. 

"General Rules for Choosing Oven Temperatures." By M. C. Denton. Jour. Home 
Econ., 12 (1920), No. 12, pp. 541-543. 

"Possibilities in Home Economics Work." By M. F. Snyder. Jour. Home Econ., 12 
(1920), No. 4, pp. 166-168. 

[Summary of Respiration Calorimeter Experiments on the Specific Heat and Energy 
Output of Celery and Eggs in Storage.] In Office of Home Economics. By C. F. Lang- 
worthy. Rpt. Dir. States Relations Service, Dept. Agr., (1920), pp. . 43, 44. 

"Utilization of Kid, Rabbit, Horse, and Seal Meats as Food." By A. D. Holmes and 
H. J. Deuel, Jr. Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 12 (1920), No. 10, Pp. 1-7. 

"What Constitutes Research in Home Economics?" By M. C. Denton. Jour. Home 
Econ., 12 (1920), No. 2, pp. 58-63. 

"Botulism and Home Canning." By. M. C. Denton. Jour. Home Econ., 13 (1921), 
No. 6, pp. 261-266. . 

"Digestibility of Some Hydrogenated Oils." By A. D. Holmes and H. J. Deuel, Jr. 
Amer. Jour. Phys., 54 (1921), No. 3, pp. 479-488. 

"Effect of a Variation in Milling on the Digestibility of Wheat Flours. " By C. F. Lang- 
worthy and A. D. Holmes. Proc. Nat. Acad. Set. (In Press). 

"Experiments in the Making of Doughnuts of Low Fat Absorption." By M. C. Denton 
and L. B. Pritchett. Jour. Home Econ., 13 (1921), No. 6, pp. 255-260. 

"Gastric Response to Foods." (Abstract). By M. C. Denton. Jour. Home Econ., 
13 (1921), No. 1, pp. 26-31 and No. 2, pp. 58-65. 

"Heat Elimination and Gaseous Exchange in Celery and Eggs During Storage." By C. 
F. Langworthy and H. G. Barott. Proc. Amer. Soc. Biol. Chem., Jour. Biol. Chem., 46 
(1921), No. 1, p. XLLX-L. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

FOURTH ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN DIETETIC ASSOCIATION 

La Salle Hotel, Chicago, III., October 24-26 

Monday Morning, 9:30 a.m. 

Administrative Section, Mary Lindsley, chairman, presiding 

Discussion of Questionnaire arranged by Administrative Section, Mary A, Lindsley, Manager 

Grace Dodge Hotel, Washington 
Equipment, George A. Smith, Chicago Range Co. 

Some Administrative Problems, Agnes Gleason, Manager Parkway Tea House 
Salesmanship, Mildred Robinson, Charge of Salesmanship, Chicago Phiblic Schools 

Monday Afternoon, 2:00 p.m. 

Social Service Section, Lucy Gillett, chairman, presiding 

To What Extent shall Racial Customs Enter into any Americanization Scheme? S. P. 

Breckinridge, Dean of Women, University of Chicago 
Dietary Customs of Various Nationalities: 

Syrians and Roumanians, Bessie Lee, Visiting Housekeeper Assn., Detroit 

Jewish, Mrs. Mary Schapiro, United Hebrew Charities, N. Y. City 

Negroes and Mountain Whites, Fairfax Proudfit, University of Tenn., Out-patient 

Medical Dept., Memphis, Tenn. 
Italians, Reba Reed, Assn. for Improving the Condition of the Poor, N. Y. City 

Monday Evening, Dinner Meeting, 6:30 p.m. 
President's Address 

Professional Spirit, Harriet Vittum, Northwestern University Settlement House 
Internal Hygiene and Its Relation to Mood, Madison E. Bentley, Prof, of Psyxiology, 

University of 111. 
Training for Industrial Leadership, A. E. Morgan, President of Antioch College 

Tuesday Morning, 9:30 a.m. 
Education Section, Dr. Ruth Wheeler, chairman, presiding 
What Nurses Need to Know about Food and Dietetics 
Mary MacMillan, Supt. Presbyteri n Hospital, Chicago, 111. 
Mrs. Higgins, Nursing Service, U. S. Navy Hospital 
Experience Meeting, Strictly 2 Minute Speeches by 10 Dietitians 
Hospital Training of Dietitians: 

In Rochester, Minn., Mary Foley 

In Peter Bent Brigham, Boston, Octavia Hall 

In Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, Mrs. Agnes 0'De-\ 

Tuesday Afternoon, 2:00 p.m. 
Round Table Conferences: 

I. Education, Dr. Wheeler, presiding 
1 . Reports by Sub-committees 

a. A course in Dietetics for Nurses 

b. Preliminary Course for Dietitians in Universities, Colleges, and Techni- 

cal Schools 

c. Hospital and Medical School Training for Dietitians 

527 



528 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

II. Dieto-Therapy, Miss Eckman, presiding 

1. Activities in Dieto-Therapy. — Laboratory, Research, and Clinical Application 

2. Educational Propaganda — Fields of Greatest Need 

III. Social Service, Miss Gillett, presiding 

1. Cooperation in the Public Health Movement from a Medical Standpoint, 

Blanche Joseph, Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago, 111. 

2. From a Nursing Standpoint, Mary Laird, Director Public Health Nursing 

Association, Rochester, N. Y. 

3. From the Social Worker's Standpoint, Florence Nesbit, Chicago United 

Charities 

IV. Administration, Miss Lindsley, presiding 

1. Discussion on Equipment, labor, supplies, and food, led by division chairmen 

2. Placement of Equipment. Margaret Proctor, Equipment Expert, Economic 

Bureau, National Board, Y. W. C. A. 

Tuesday Evening, 8:00 p.m. 

Emma Gunther, Chairman Program Committee, presiding 

The Sphere of the Dietitian, Dr. H. P. Howard, Prof, of Internal Medicine, State University 

of Iowa 
The Selection of Personnel, Hugh FuUerton, The H. Black Co., Cleveland, Ohio 
Food Poisoning, John Street, National Canners Association 

Wednesday Morning, 9:30 a.m. 

Fields for the Dietitian — 15 Minute Talks 

Cafeteria and Institutional Managers, Blanche Geary, National Board, Y. W. C. A. 
The Hospital, Marion Peterson, Swedish Hospital 
The CoUege Hall, Mabel Little 

The National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, Lena Phillips, Execu- 
tive Secretary 

Business Meeting 

Wednesday Afternoon, 2:00 p.m. 

Dieto-Therapy Section, Rena Eckman, chairman, presiding 

1. The Dietary Needs of a Children's Hospital, Dr. Amy L. Daniels, Iowa Child 

Research Station, University of Iowa 

2. The Newer Ideas on the Dietetic Management of Diabetes and their Practical Work- 

ing Out in the Hospital, Dr. R. T. Woodyatt, Assistant Professor of Medicine, 
University of Chicago 

Wednesday Evening, 8:00 p.m. 

Mrs. Mary de Garmo Bryan, president, presiding 

Relationship Between Diet and Nervous Conditions with its Significance in Social Problems 

Dr. Sidney Kuh, Neurologist, Chicago 
Systems of FoUow-Up Work in Dietetics, Mrs. Gertrude Gates Mudge, Nutrition Division, 

American Red Cross 
Human Engineering, Robert Wolf, Consulting Engineer, New York 

Hotel reservations should be made at once. Accommodations may be secured at the 
following rates for single rooms; double rooms are in proportion. 

Hotel La SaUe, $2.50-$7.00; Drake Hotel, S6.00-$8.00; Hotel Blackstone, $5.00-$8.00; 
Hotel Sherman, $2.50-$6.00; Hotel Alexandria, $2.00 up; Congress Hotel, $3.00 up; 
Virginia Hotel, $3.00 up. 

For information in regard to transportation rates, write to E. M. Geraghty, 801 S. Wright 
St., Champaign, 111. 



1921] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



529 



The Cincinnati Health Exposition, 
will be held in Music Hall, October 15-22, 
1921, for the purpose of influencing a 
greater public attention toward family and 
community health. The exposition is the 
chmax of a program of education combining 
the effects of almost every organization of 
every size and purpose in Greater Cincin- 
nati. The exposition is a pioneer in a note- 
worthy field, and possesses a national 
significance. A combination of commercial 
and non-commercial exhibits properly con- 
structed and operated, as it \vill be by the 
committee of business and professional men 
in charge of it, may serve as a model for 
similar enterprises throughout the country. 

The departments of the city government 
will be well represented in this educational 
display, which will serve to mark Cincin- 
nati's great progress in health activities 
during the past twenty-five years. 

The Ellen Richards Research Prize 

of $1000, ofiFered biennially by the Associa- 
tion of American College Women for Pro- 
moting Laboratory Research by Women 
(now the Association to Aid Scientific Re- 
search by Women) was awarded Dr. Eleanor 
Carothers of Philadelphia at the annual 
meeting of the association at Goucher College. 

Dr. Eleanor Carothers received her 
bachelor's degree from the University of 
Kansas and her doctor's degree from the 
University of Pennsylvania. She is at 
present engaged in research work at the 
University of Pennsylvania on the genetical 
behavior of heteromorphic homologous 
chromosomes of circotettix (orthoptera). 

The prize will be awarded again in 1922. 
Theses by women, based on independent 
laboratory research, are eligible for competi- 
tion and must reach the Committee before 
February 25, 1922. For circulars of infor- 
mation and application blank, apply to 
Dr. LiUan Welsh, Goucher College, Balti- 
more. 

Florida State College For Women. A 
new building has been completed and will 
be used for the home economics classes 
this fall. 



University of Washington. Announce- 
ment has been made of the establishment of 
an annual graduate fellowship of $600 in 
textile research at the University of Washing- 
ton. It is to be known as the Bon Marchd 
Fellowship, as it is a gift of that store, the 
largest department store in Seattle. The 
holder will devote a few hours each week 
to analyses of fabrics for the store with time 
for sufficient research work to gain the 
master's degree in the eleven months covered 
by the fellowship. 

The Personal Service Department, a most 
important and enterprising activity of the 
store, is under the direction of a former 
member of the staff of the Home Economics 
Department, Frances Grant Heverlo. 

Rose Eraser, University of Washington 
1918, has been awarded the fellowship for 
1921. 

Application for the fellowship for next 
year may be sent to the Home Economics 
Department, University of Washington, 
Seattle. 

Research Work at Teachers College. 

The Department of Physiological Chemistry 
of Teachers College has inaugurated during 
the Summer Session four lines of research 
which wiU be continued during the coming 
academic year. 

As a result of the work of Professor 
Sherman and Dr. La Mer, an adequate, 
basal diet has been developed for guinea pigs 
lacking only in the antiscorbutic vitamin. 
This diet permits experiments to be devel- 
oDed which will measure with a fair degree 
of accuracy the C vitamin content of foods 
under varying cooking conditions. This 
phase of the work has been made a program 
of research for the department, and during 
the summer the work was carried on with 
the pressure cooker by ^liss Shelow of Ohio 
State University. 

Ever since the announcement, by Johns, 
of the nutritive value of peanut flour, the 
department has been conducting cooperative 
experiments in the practical development 
of nutritious and appetizing recipes of 
peanut and wheat flour products with the 
department of cookery. This work has 



530 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



been actively advanced during the sum- 
mer session and Miss Eckman has begun 
during the summer the study of peanut 
flour supplementing vs. supplementing with 
meat residue, the diets being made adequate 
in all other factors to determine whether 
such supplementing justifies the claims 
made for the peanut or whether, as recently 
announced by McCollum, there are factors 
in the animal tissues which are of special 
significance. 

A third phase of work, that has moved 
forward during the summer has been the 
attention to the rickets problem, with 
especial reference to phosphate supplement- 
ing of cereal diets. This work has embraced 
the investigation of the value of combined 
phosphates such as phytin as a preventive 
of rickets, and the possibilities of better 
cereal combinations for baby feeding. Dur- 
ing the summer this work was carried on 
by Professor Taylor of the Wake Forest 
Medical College under the Departmental 
direction. 

The fourth series of researches have been 
continuation of the study of yeast stimu- 
lation by extracts and their relation to the 
B \atamin. Mr. Cherkasi of the College 
of Physicians and Surgeons has had this 
work in charge during the summer. 

University of Illinois. Harriet Barto 
comes to the University of Illinois as assist- 
ant professor of home economics. She has 
been on the staff of Teachers College, as 
an instructor in nutrition. Bonnie Elizabeth 
Scholes is taking up the work of nutrition 
specialist for the Extension Dep.^rtment, 
this fall. 

University of Kansas. Anne D. Blitz 
will come to the University this fall as the 
first Dean of Women, this position having 
just been created here. During the planning 
of the new dormitory for women she is 
acting in an advisory capacity to the build- 
ing committee, because of her wide knowl- 
edge of housing and the college dormitory 
problem. 

The new college cafeteria will be opened 
this fall, under the direction of Anna Bamum, 
who was formerly at Cornell University. 



She will be assisted by her sister Rebecca 
Bamum. For a time the cafeteria will 
occupy temporary quarters, but upon the 
completion of the Union Memorial Hall 
it will be given space there. 

Cookery Cou'-ses for Men. Pennsyl- 
vam'a State College is planning to repeat 
this fall the courses for men which were 
given last spring. There is a course in 
buying and menu making, designed espe- 
cially to meet the needs of the men who 
are acting as stewards for the various col- 
lege clubs; and there is a class in actual 
cookery, where the men study elementary 
food principles and apply them, ending 
their work with a dinner for their friends. 
This course developed some technical skill, 
but in addition it gave an appreciation of 
the work involved in meal serving. After 
the dinner one man said, "SLx men, five 
hours each — thirty hours, one dirmer — and 
one woman does it!" 



Mrs. Alma Quillet will be at Mechanics 
Institute this fall teaching homemaking. 

Bessie Pleasants will have charge of the 
practice house at Mechanics Institute. 

Jessie Winchell has gone to the University 
of Vermont to have super\nsion of teacher 
training work. 

Mabel Little, who has been connected 
with Marshall Field's in Chicago, has gone 
to the University of Wisconsin as director 
of halls and residence. 

Rosa Briggs has gone to Drexel Institute 
to take charge of the cafeteria and to teach 
institutional administration. 

Elsie Kirk has gone to the State Normal 
School at Towson, Md., as director of 
halls and residence. 

Frances Dunning will be director of food 
service and instructor in institutional ad- 
ministration at the University of Nebraska 
this year. 

Emma Winslow will spend this winter at 
the University of London, doing special 
work in sociology and economics. Before 
her return she will visit the continent, where 
she will study the work of various social 
agencies. 



Vol. XIII, No. 11 November, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mary de Garuo Bryan, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Amy Daniels Katharine Fisher Grace G. Denny 

Associate Editors 
Day Monroe, News 

Edith Barber and Mrs. Hazzard, Social Welfare 
Florence Ward, Extension 

Katharine Hlunt and Sybil Woodruff, Foods and Xutrition 
Cora Winchell, Education 
Ruth O'Brien, Textiles 
Henrietta French, Institution Economics 
.Alice Biester, Bibliography 

Collaborators — The OflBcers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

■Catherine MacKay Frontispiece 

Visualizing your Financial Trent) John Boynlon Kaiser 531 

The Red Cross Xutrition Program in New York City . Amy Slorer and Gertrude Mtidge 536 

Report of Covmittee on Home Interiors Florence Winchell, Chairman 541 

]My Four Years in Jackson County, ^Iissouri, as Home Demonstration Agent 

Florence Cariin 543 

The Merrill-Palmer School Edna N. White 545 

For the Homemaker 

{..ARCS AND L.ARD SUBSTITUTES IN HOUSEHOLD PaSTRY MAKING 

Minna Denton, Ruth Baird, Fanny Yeatman, Rosalie Godfrey 549 

Thanksgiving Din-ners 557 

TunKisH Coffee 558 

Editorial 559 

The Open FoRUii 562 

The (Question Bo.x 564 

Books and Literature 565 

News from the Field 571 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.50 A YF.AR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittance? should be sent by New York Draft, Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable lo inc .■\merican Home Economics Association Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDKESS Notice oi rharpe in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN' HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal of Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg & Co., Chicago: Hochschild, Kohn & Co.. Baltimore; Woodward and Lotbrop, Washington. 




CATHERIXE J. MAC KAY 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIII NOVEMBER, 1921 No. 11 

VISUALIZING YOUR FINANCIAL TREND 

JOHN BOYNTON KAISER 
Ptiblic Library, Tacoma, Washington 

The "movie" is our most universal application of the theory of visual 
instruction. This theory, developed primarily as a scientific method 
of formal education, has had many practical applications outside the 
classroom; and nowhere has it been appHed of late more successfully 
than in the world of big business. In their ready use and eager scanning 
of charts, diagrams, and graphs based on the facts of business and de- 
signed to indicate at a glance the exact trend of business in all its essen- 
tial parts — costs, production, sales, revenues, etc. — the modem business 
executive and consulting efiiciency engineer are applying to practical 
purpose the educational theory of visual instruction. 

Nor is its effective application limited to big business. To the finan- 
cial management of the hmnble household of John Doe and his wife 
Jane, it is equally apphcable. To know at a given moment your exact 
financial status is important; yet vastly more important is it to know 
the direction of your financial trend, and the rate of this trend compared 
to what it was one year or two years, or, better, five years ago. 

Our object is the intelligent direction and control of the finances of 
the household. To exercise this intelligent control we must have, to 
begin with, a collection of facts relative to the household finances, cov- 
ering in detail, systematically and in classified form, the income and 
expenses of the home for a series of months and years. An accounting 
system that will reveal the desired information would include a record 
of daily expenditures, preferably classified each day, and certainly a 

531 



532 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



carefully classified record of total expenditures for the month; also a 
carefully classified and itemized monthly income record, and a balance 
sheet listing in full the assets and liabiUties and the resulting "net worth " 
the first day of each month. There are on the market many printed 
account books of the "economy" and "budget" t}^e easily adaptable 
to the needs of almost any household. 

But while the figures may thus be revealed, one cannot easily grasp 
their trend and significance when presented in the mass, even though 
carefully classified and tabulated. For example, let us assume that 
the account book of John Doe, for the period indicated, presents, among 
other things, the following set of figures: 

TABLE 1 
Tabulation of expenses, 1910-1920 





FOOD 


RENT 


CLOTHING 


FUEL 


HEALTH 


SAVINGS 


OTHER 


TOTAL 


1910 


$604 


S360 


$480 


$42 


$25 


$200 


$394 


$2105 


1911 


595 


360 


465 


41 


25 


200 


400 


2446 


1912 


635 


360 


475 


45 


100 


160 


400 


2175 


1913 


651 


360 


500 


50 


30 


220 


375 


2186 


1914 


667 


420 


515 


48 


80 


120 


1900 


3750 


1915 


658 


420 


520 


46 


150 


110 


820 


2724 


1916 


738 


420 


625 


58 


90 


120 


870 


2921 


1917 


962 


540 


880 


87 


40 


120 


1000 


3629 


1918 


1113 


540 


945 


82 


30 


40 


1100 


3850 


1919 


1228 


600 


1050 


86 


20 


30 


1200 


4114 


1920 


1326 


600 


1180 


119 


50 


40 


1300 


4615 



We have here a mass of figures, accurate and informing and valuable. 
Suppose we select the more important, concerning food, rent, clothing, 
fuel, health, and savings, and chart them (fig. 1). 

WTiat a difference! How the changes from year to year stand out! 
The cost of living did go up, did it not! 

The detailed record of one's income provides, not only valuable infor- 
mation for the individual concerned, but, in these days, is an absolute 
necessity as a result of the income tax laws. A chart may also be pre- 
pared for the income. 

This visualization of the trend of expenses and income is both inter- 
esting and illuminating, and may lead to many corrective measures. 
However, there is another set of figures, the visualization of which is 
vital to a correct understanding of the real trend of one's financial stand- 
ing, and to the inteUigent direction and control over the finances of the 
household. 



1921] VISUALIZING YOUE. FINANCIAL TREND 533 

These are the figures of the monthly balance sheet. Let us see what 
they include : 

Form for monthly balance sheet 

ASSETS LIABILITIES 

1. Cash: Husband 1. Current bills payable 

2. Cash: Wife 2. Bank notes: 



3. Checking Acct: Husband 3. Accrued interest 

4. Checking Acct: Wife 4. Owed on real estate. . 

5. Savings Acct. : Husband 5. Owed on auto 

6. Savings Acct. : Wife 6. Mortgages 

7. Bonds and Stocks* 7. Miscellaneous debt. . . 

8. 

9. Life Ins. Pol. (Cash surrender Total liabilities 

value) NET WORTH 

10. Accounts receivable 1. Total assets 

11. Accrued salary 2. Total liabilities 

12. Accrued income from invest- 

ments Net worth 

13. House furnishings 

14. Real estate 

15. Auto 

16. Other assets 



Total assets 

* If listed at face value the current market value must be given in a footnote and vice 
versa. 

Although difficult to list accurately at a specified money value in a 
statement of assets, there should appear in connection with it a state- 
ment of the total Hfe insurance carried, noting exactly the amounts of 
death benefits payable to the wife or estate in case of the husband's 
death from sickness, ordinary accident, or from an accident received 
while on a common carrier; also information concerning disability bene- 
fits under accident poKcies. In addition should be shown the amount 
of insurance carried on the home and its furnishings, the auto, and other 
insurable property. All this information is a factor in determining a 
man's financial standing and his credit rating at the bank. The 
graphic chart of the family's total assets, Habilities, and net worth, 
each month for a series of years, shows conclusively which direction you 
are traveling, and how far along the road you are. 

There is one other important point. Thus far, the charts suggested 
will have shown the actual, "lump-sum" changes in amounts spent, 
or received, or on hand, on successive dates. The comparative rates of 



534 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



progress, that is, the percentages of the new total as compared with the 
old, in two or more series of figures, have not been illustrated. For 
example, we should know how the rate (or percentage) of variation in 
income, during a given period, compares with the rate (or percentage) 
of variation in expenses; and we should know the rate (or percentage) 
of variation in the assets on successive dates, as compared with the rate 
(or percentage) of variation in liabilities. This requires what is termed 
by the mathematicians and statisticians a "ratio chart." 



teoo 



teoo 



%V>0 



♦200 

















1 


/ 


1 

f 














i 


t 

/ 


/ 






/ 








/ 

1 


] 






- 






/ 




1 


1 





/ 










/ 


















f 








\ 


^ 


^ 


\ 


^ 




^ 


D T 


I 


^ r 
H r 






3 


% 


^ 


\ 


I 1 

-* H 




In the charts already discussed the lines are equidistant and the 
difference between $10 and $20 would be indicated by the same lineal 
distance used in indicating the like numerical difference between $100 
and $110. Note, however, that the increase from $10 to $20, an increase 
of $10, is an increase of 100 per cent, while the increase from $100 to 
$110, also an increase of $10, is an increase of but 10 per cent. Hence 
a chart showing the relative increases in expense compared to relative 



1921] VISUALIZING YOUU FINANCIAL TREND 535 

increases in income may become more important than the chart showing 
merely the changes in absolute or actual amounts. Such a "ratio 
chart" requires the use of semi-logarithmic paper. Cross-section paper 
ruled in this fashion is now easily available through the trade, and has 
been in use by engineers and others for years. One must merely know 
that, on semi-logarithmic cross-section paper, equal linear distances repre- 
sent equal percentage differences, while on the other paper equal linear 
distances represent equal arithmetic differences. Therefore when you 
plot a series of numbers on semi-logarithmic paper your resulting graphs 
picture the percentage variations, rather than the absolute arithmetic 
variations between the numbers concerned. Figure 1 A shows on 
semi-logarithmic paper, with graphs indicating percentage variations 
from year to year, the same expenses which are charted as successive 
amounts in figure 1. Note the astonishing changes in the lines for fuel, 
health, and savings. On the ratio chart large percentage variations, 
even in small totals, loom up. 

Your own assets, liabilities, and net worth, charted on this semi-log- 
arithmic cross-section paper to indicate the variation from month to 
month over a series of years, may prove very revealing ! When an in- 
crease of indebtedness of $100 represented an increase of 100 per cent 
has it been offset by an increase of 100 per cent in your income? Prob- 
ably not. Other factors in your situation may have made it impossible, 
or unnecessary. 

The point should be clear, however, that it is vitally important to 
know, not only the status of one's finances at a given moment, not merely 
the direction and amount of their monthly or yearly variation, but 
likewise the comparative rate of variation between income, expense, and 
net worth. 

Just as the appHcation of the theory of visual instruction through 
the "movies" has made many immensely wealthy, perhaps the appli- 
cation of this same theory of visual instruction to the visualization 
of your own financial trend will start you along the same road. 



536 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

THE RED CROSS NUTRITION PROGRAM IN NEW YORK CITY 

AMY DRINKWATER STORER 
Director of Nutrition Service, Atlantic Division 

GERTRUDE GATES MUDGE 
Supervisor of Nutrition, New York County Chapter 

The first nutrition class in New York City under the Red Cross was 
organized in February, 1920, by the Bronx County Chapter, in response 
to the need of a group of children from soldiers' families. Six months 
later the Morris Avenue Health Center was opened and the nutrition 
classes became a part of its health acti\dties. Recently a second center 
has been opened in the same community. 

Almost simultaneously with the beginnings of the work in the Bronx, 
Brooklyn opened a nutrition center in the Red Hook district where 
several agencies with whom the Red Cross has cooperated closely were 
already carrying on other health activities. 

As a result of its nutritional survey reported in the leaflet "Watch 
New York's Children Grow," the New York County Chapter was con- 
vinced of the desirabiHty of organizing child health stations. Two 
have been operating in settlements for almost a year, one at Greenwich 
House, the other at Christodora House. In addition to the nutrition 
program conducted at these stations, the chapter finances two nutrition 
workers, who, in cooperation with the Nutrition Department of Teachers 
College, have a part in the health program in one of the public schools. 

The fact that malnutrition is a many-sided problem is recognized in 
organizing the work at the various centers. The personnel of the child 
health stations includes a pediatrist, an oral hygienist, and the two 
nutrition workers. Arrangements are made for dental attention and 
the correction of physical defects. Frequent conferences correlate the 
work. 

Recognizing that the public school is logically responsible for the 
health of the child, the workers seek cooperation with the principals 
of schools located near the centers. In general this is welcomed by 
them as well as by the teachers. Whole grades are weighed, measured, 
and checked by the nutrition workers, and tentative classes are formed. 
A thorough physical examination of each child is made by the physician. 
Conditions are recorded and remedial recommendations given. The 
physician's connection with the nutrition class is continuous. At the 
Brooklyn and Bronx centers his services are available whenever 



1921] RED CROSS NUTRITION PROGRAM 537 

needed. At the child health stations of New York County Chapter, 
as a member of the staff, he makes regular weekly visits and holds 
himself responsible for the physical condition of the children. Preced- 
ing the organization of the class the interest of the mother is solicited. 
This necessitates a home visit, often several before the confidence of the 
father and mother is gained. Home conditions are studied to enable 
the worker to understand the difficulties which surround the child. 
The mother is urged to attend the nutrition class, especially when the 
physical examination is given. 

The aim of the nutrition class is not only to bring the child up to 
normal weight, and to help him to make health habits automatic, but 
at the same time to reach the mother, thus influencing the entire family 
group. The class meets weekly after school hours at the center, or in the 
school room during the day as a part of the regular curriculum. The chil- 
dren weigh themselves or are weighed by the nutrition worker, and their 
weight changes are charted. With its wavering line struggling to reach 
the straight, red, normal line, the chart is a means of interesting the 
mother and convincing her that she needs to help in this race for health. 
Each week a record is given to the child in the form of a tag. This 
shows what he weighs, what the gain or loss has been since the last 
meeting, and what the normal weight should be. On the other side 
of the tag are directions for the preparation of some food especially 
desirable for children. Many times home visits have revealed a row 
of such tags proudly adorning the walls, showing that this is a \dtal 
interest of the home. 

At each meeting there is a definite period of instruction — ten to twenty 
minutes or half an hour. Because the children are tired from their 
day in school, the lesson must be comparatively short. The presenta- 
tion of the subject matter follows the usual teaching methods. The 
children give the work of the previous meeting, while the new work 
follows. A strong appeal to the child's imagination must be made. 
A clever device, worked out in the Brooklyn center, shows an automo- 
bile race, each machine moving along the race course at the same rate 
its owner gains. Stories teUing the message and health songs are found 
helpful. Illustrative material is freely used, especially the picture 
posters; for the child remembers what he sees much longer than what 
he hears, as does the mother who comes to visit the class and who, in 
almost all cases, is of foreign birth and can understand very little 
EngHsh. Toward the end of the period the weights are aimounced and 
reasons for gains or losses discussed. "I went to bed too late," or "I 



538 THE JOURNAL OF HOiiE ECONOMICS [November 

did not miss cereal a single day," explains the situation, and all go 
home determined to follow the rules of the game more closely in the 
days to come. 

Frequently, the lesson is carried home by means of some interesting 
game. For instance, at the Red Cross station at Greenwich House, 
the children love to play "Buying at the Store. " Benches or tables are 
arranged around the room, each one representing a grocery store, a 
dairy, a vegetable stand, or a fruit stand. The children, representing 
mothers, are given paper money to buy the food for their families. They 
wander from one store to another, bu^-ing what they think they need — 
food being represented by brightly colored pictures pasted on heavy 
cardboard or by wax food models. After their supply has been chosen, 
it is criticized before the class. They must state how many children 
they have at home and why they bought certain foods. This teaches 
the children much about the food that is needed, and they improve 
in their choice each time it is played. 

Occasionally, one of the nutrition classes takes the form of a real en- 
tertainment. The mothers are invited, and some health play or pan- 
tomime is given by the children. The mere planning and rehearsing 
for the party emphasizes the value of foods represented or habits involved. 
If refreshments are serv^ed they are carefully chosen, not only with the 
idea of pleasing, but to carry home to the mother some new food thought. 
These playtimes are well worth while as they bring the mothers into 
closer touch with the work. 

The length of time it is wise to continue the weekly meetings has been 
difficult to determine. At first, the course, which is divided between 
general hygiene and food habits, seemed to require six months; but 
later many factors pointed to the four months' course as preferable. 
The child is then transferred to a monthly class. 

Mothers are encouraged to attend the nutrition classes regularly, in 
order that they may follow the work given the children and be in sym- 
pathy with the health game. As soon as they are sufficiently interested 
they are given lessons in food selection. The ever present problem is 
to create in the mothers a desire to come to the centers regularly. The 
response is often unsatisfactory. This may be due to the racial factor, 
the Jewish mothers, for example, being more frequent visitors than the 
Itahan. Home cares — two or three children too small to be left at 
home — make it hard for mothers to come to the class. There is also 
an increasing number of mothers who work during the day. Undoubted- 
ly much depends upon the accessibility of the center and the atmosphere 



1921] 



RED CROSS NUTRITION PROGRAM 



539 



of hospitality maintained there. Most nutrition workers agree, however, 
that the real difficulty hes in the natural reluctance of the mother to 
visit an unaccustomed place, and the unwillingness of the father to have 
her meet outside influences. At the present time much of the follow- 
up work is done in the homes; here the mother welcomes the worker 
as her friend and advisor. She will discuss freely her own particular 
problems and listen attentively as the worker goes over the reasons 
why Johnnie has not gained. 

Within the last few months the work of the centers has been extended 
to reach the child of pre-school age. These groups are often made up of 
the smaller brothers and sisters of the children in the nutrition classes. 
Some of the toddlers have been passed over from the baby health stations, 
near the centers, to the pre-school group. Weekly clinics are arranged, 
but the irregularity of the mothers' attendance presents the same 
problem as does the nutrition class. In the pre-school group, attention 
is given both to normal and undernourished children, with emphasis 
on the latter. The prevention of malnutrition through education in 
health habits is comparatively easy at this time. Normal children 
may not be asked to come more often than once a month; others need 
constant supervision until they have acquired proper health habits. 

Graduation parties are not infrequent. The question naturally 
arises, "When is a child ready to graduate?" The following explana- 
tion was given at a recent graduation: "When the physical defects 
are, as far as possible, corrected; when the child reaches normal weight; 
when health habits have become automatic, when the mother is inter- 
ested in the health of her family to the extent that she is doing her ut- 
most to maintain a healthful home. " Here is the story of a graduation 
party taken from a report from one of the centers: "The members of 
the Tuesday class were highly elated because Anna Carado was to grad- 
uate. As in a real school graduation, Anna came forward to receive her 
diploma, which was presented by the Director of the Health Service. 
This gave it added importance and all were jealous of Aima's good 
fortune. But they were all reminded, in the talk which followed, 
that the same pleasure might come to every one, and it rested with each 
as to how soon this would be. After the short talks, Anna was presented 
with a yellow balloon bearing the letters, 'Good Health.' Her class- 
mates gathered around her and sang : 



'Anna Carado keep it up 
Anna you're a dandy 

Don't forget the milk and fruit 
And leave alone the candy. 



Anna Carado keep it up 

Anna you're a dandy 
Open your w-indows while you sleep 

And leave alone the candy.'" 



540 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

When a child graduates, however, his connection with the center is 
not lost. He comes back every month to be weighed, this stimulates 
him and his family to continue the habits already established. 

At the Bronx centers, nurses and nutrition workers are working out 
a health program in a clearly defined section. The children in the 
nutrition classes are casually met in field work or are selected from 
homes which the nurses have \dsited. The nutrition worker is respon- 
sible for the mothers of these children, and each week gives a large pro- 
portion of her time to visiting the homes, referred to her by the nurses, 
in which there is illness or a convalescent patient. The mother at 
such a time is particularly responsive, and, while teaching her to prepare 
foods for the son who is recovering from pneumonia, the nutrition worker 
drives home the fact that a similar diet will promote the health of all the 
children. In a single morning an ItaHan mother was taught to cook 
oatmeal, poach an egg, and make a custard and a cream of potato soup. 
Food demonstrations in the homes are a strong feature of the work. 
The mother whose kitchen is used for the demonstration has the priv- 
ilege of inviting her friends and neighbors. One such demonstration 
was attended by a group of six or seven mothers, all Hving on one floor, 
whose children and grandchildren numbered fifty-two. Organized 
classes in food selection are also held. The girls who have been graduated 
from the nutrition classes are held by means of the homemaking class 
which meets weekly, following the home project method. At the dia- 
gnostic clinics, held at the centers, the nutrition worker gives advice 
to expectant mothers and to those who bring their babies for examination. 

A special activity of the New York County Chapter is the Teaching 
Center. Here, in a well equipped kitchen, courses in food selection are given 
to all women desiring the work. One evening a week a group of social 
workers are availing themselves of this opportunity to secure elementary 
knowledge of an adequate diet and the principles of budget making. 
The following afternoon a class of.ItaKan women have their lesson. 
This service is not confined to the Teaching Center, as many courses 
are given at the settlement houses or industrial plants of the city. A 
recent development is work with diabetic patients who are referred to 
the Teaching Center by physicians from a number of hospitals. The 
work is sponsored by a committee of the leading diabetic speciaHsts. 
It consists of translating the patient's tolerance into terms of food in 
keeping with his means, faciHties for preparation, racial pecuHarities, 
and general living conditions. The diet is changed from time to time 



1921] REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON HOME INTERIORS 541 

as the patient improves. Not only is the diet planned in detail, but 
the preparation of dishes with which the patient is unfamiUar is taught. 
In addition, diabetic foods such as bran breads are sold at cost to those 
who are so situated as to be unable to prepare them in the home. 

The Red Cross Nutrition Service wishes to further and supplement 
the nutrition work of other agencies, pending the time when the proper 
authorities will be able to assume responsibihty for the health of aU 
children. 



REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON HOME INTERIORS^ 

SUBMITTED BY FLORENCE E. WINCHELL, CHAIRMAN 

Those who attended the meetings of the Textile Section of the American 
Home Economics Association at Blue Ridge, N. C, may recall an effort to 
discover the facts concerning the kind of home interiors shown in "the 
movies." A committee, appointed for the purpose, distributed printed 
blanks, to be used by individuals from all parts of the country in reporting 
the kind of interiors shown on the screens in their towns. The small number 
of reports returned made it impossible to draw conclusions. 

Martha Cutler, Editor of the Interior Decoration Department, Butterick 
Publishing Company, formerly associated with both Harper^ s Bazar and The 
Designer, was interviewed and became interested in the problem. She has 
kept it constantly in mind in seeing moving pictures and has submitted the 
following report. The committee presents this as a report of progress, but 
with the hope that the readers of the Journal may be able to reach the ears 
of dramatic critics and so assist in the work. Information concerning con- 
tacts so estabhshed will be appreciated. 

The interiors shown in the best class of moving pictures have improved one hundred 
per cent in three years. The artist and interior decorator have arrived in a world where 
they should have reigned supreme from the beginning. We doubt whether the moving 
picture producer would have appreciated his need for their assistance if a verj' active move- 
ment had not brought them into a conspicuous position on the legitimate stage at about 
the same time. 

It was always infinitely worse to presume to make pictures without art and beauty than 
to produce plays in the theater without those qualities. The stage had the spoken word 
to make good its claim for existence; a picture that is not beautiful, and pretends to be, has 
no excuse for its creation. There are sordid pictures, but they are verj- few; most pictures 
can show some beauty if the producer recognizes its importance and knows what real beauty 

1 Report of the Committee appointed in June, 1919, to see what might be done to 
improve the character of the home interiors shown in moving pictures. 



542 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

is. He cannot be expected to know how to create it and neither can his directors; hence 
the appearance of the art director. All the best companies now have them, and recognize 
the value of their services by flashing their names on the screens. 

I wish that some of the critics on the New York newspapers, and those of other large 
cities, could be induced to give credit to these art directors, when credit is due, and to con- 
demn them with equal frankness when they have not done good work. They praise the 
producer, the director, the photographer and the scenario waiter, but the art director's work, 
which has so much to do with the success or failure of the picture, is seldom mentioned. 
Cedric Gibbons, Hugo Ballin, Max Parker, Uno Nixon Hopkins and several others have 
done work recently that deserves high praise. 

Instead of forming a larger committee to watch the pictures, I wish that some one could 
be found who knows at least one of the New York critics. It is perfectly legitimate to sug- 
gest to him that he take pains to notice the interior work done by the art directors of the 
various pictures, and mention their names when something worth while is done. The pro- 
ducers and exhibitors of motion pictures watch eagerly the Monday morning criticisms in 
the New York, Chicago, and Boston papers and base their actions upon them. If they 
discover that these critics praise the work of the art directors they wiU appreciate its im- 
portance. Those who have no art directors will hasten to engage them. 

At present, in our best pictures, we are having some wonderfully beautiful interiors, 
almost classic in their simplicity, dignity, and harmony. The furniture is frequently so 
beautiful that one wonders whether it has been taken from some museum. The grouping 
is charming, the home atmosphere delightful, and the entire effect the best that is being 
produced by the decorators who are furnishing artistic homes for the modern American of 
unlimited means. 

It is beauty that costs so much money that some of us wonder that even the largest 
companies can afford to keep it up. We laugh to ourselves when we see self-supporting 
artists and stenographers living modestly in rooms that must have cost thousands of dollars, 
but we excuse the lack of appropriateness, since we realize that the classic simplicity, which 
stands for so large an expenditure to one who knows, looks truly simple and inexpensive to 
those who do not know. 

A few beautiful and simple cottage interiors have been shown in the pictures recently 
produced, but almost i^athout exception they have been foreign: Scotch, Italian, Spanish, 
Dutch, and English. They have been truly charming. The cottages lived in by the Ameri- 
can citizens who correspond to the peasant class in those countries are not beautiful. 

The homes of the middle class here are sometimes beautiful, but only occasionally. The 
homes of the cultured middle and higher classes are usually charming. We propagandists 
want to make the homes of all the middle class charming. We want the motion pictures to 
help us instead of making our task harder. Very few plots concern themselves with the 
hapoy bourgeoisie. The middle class is supposedly not dramatic. Drama deals for the 
most part with extreme riches as contrasted with extreme poverty. Culture, education, 
good taste, and intelligence are not picture material. Hence, where is the opportunity for 
interiors of modest cultured homes? 

Happily the owner of a modest home can receive inspiration and suggestions galore from 
the beautiful and artistic interiors that are now being shown. Similar effects can be obtained 
with simple and inexpensive furniture built on similar lines. Many people will never know 
the difference between a Spanish chair and a copy made over on Third Avenue. They can 
trim and hang their cotton voile curtains like the silk gauze ones in the picture and get an 
almost equally good effect. The modest artistic cottages of our dreams will unquestionably 
grow from these millionaire interiors. 

Martha H. Cutler, 
Editor, Interior Decoration Department, 
Butterick Puhlishins, Co. 



1921] FOUR YEARS AS HOME DEMONSTRATION AGENT 543 

MY FOUR YEARS IN JACKSON COUNTY, MISSOURI, AS HOME 
DEMONSTRATION AGENT 

Why do people think it unusual for a home demonstration agent to stay 
in one county for four years? Some teachers remain in one university or 
high school for twenty years and more, and no one comments upon the fact 
except to mention that "You can't kill some folks. " 

Why should I like to leave a county like this one? I am 8 miles from a city 
of three hundred thousand, where I can hear and see the best things that come 
to the middle west; I am a short 6-hour ride by rail from my own home; I 
have 500 miles of hard surface road over which to drive my Ford; and, above 
all, I am beginning to know my people and they to believe in me. I say 
"beginning to know them," advisedly, because farm women are not likely 
to permit any intrusion at first sight. Their confidence cannot be won in a 
day, and they test an agent thoroughly before they take her in. But after 
that, there is nothing they will not do for her. She belongs to them and no 
other county can get her, no matter how generous the offers may be. One 
committee-woman said, at a meeting concerning salary, "We want to keep 
you because we know you and you understand us, and we cannot waste time 
getting acquainted with a new agent. " 

Looking back to November 1, 1917, the time seems very short since war 
breads and conservation of all sorts started the work here. And yet it seems 
ages since we talked "Save for Our Boys," with lumps in our throats and 
moisture in our eyes. How we tried to get Over There in hospital work, but 
were prevented because our own men were already there, and Uncle Sam could 
not have the morale of his army disturbed by over-anxious sisters running 
about Europe in search of flying brothers ! So the new work came to us here. 
And though the blood of ten generations of pioneers and fighting men rebelled 
at riding in a rattle-trap Ford over 8 Missouri counties, talking just "Food," 
it had to be done as a portion of the Big Piece. 

Later, when the pressing need for conservation had passed, there came the 
preparation for the return of the boys; getting an extra room built on to the 
old farm house, redecorating inside and out; buying new furniture; installing 
water and heat and light, because our boys must surely understand how 
earnestly we hoped they would be content again with us. The home demon- 
stration agent was called upon for plans and specifications and ideas and 
demonstrations. Then Mother and the girls had to have new clothes, bought 
with poultry money. But clothing was high, and eggs were not plentiful 
enough to supply the money; so the agent helped make over and renovate and 
dye old clothing; and she showed how to make the hens lay more eggs, by 
careful culling, feeding, and housing. 

Then the Spanish influenza crept upon us and the agent nursed the sick, 
planned diets, taught prevention, prepared food, washed baby clothes for sick 



544 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

mothers, carried hot soup from house to house, and gave instruction in simple 
methods of first aid. Through these ministrations she endeared herself to 
scores of people who may have doubted before. 

After that, corrective measures for school children were undertaken through 
examinations carried on in the school house. For the first time the public 
health nurse and the demonstration agent, with simple equipment for examina- 
tion met at the school houses. Hot lunches were established; communities 
became more friendly through growing to know one another; neighborliness 
was developed, and the teacher found some tangible support for her work. 

Upon the advent of true citizenship for women, a new idea developed in 
the county, and women were elected to the school boards, bringing a surprising 
change in the appearance of the school house within and without, and a de- 
cided improvement in the sanitary conditions of the grounds. The Agent 
must be consulted in every new venture, for she had behind her not only the 
State College and the United States Department of Agriculture, with the 
Smith-Lever Act, but she had the county, state, and national organized 
strength of the Farm Bureau. 

Practically every phase of rural life, during the past four years, has felt the 
influence of the home demonstration agent. Some of our universities through- 
out the country, recognizing the value of this work, are offering special training 
for this vital branch of home economics. It is to be hoped that the number 
offering such courses will increase. Of what use are the findings of experi- 
ment stations, and the teachings of high schools, colleges, and universities 
unless women in their homes are going to practice newer methods? And how 
are they to use them unless they know about them? And who shall tell them? 

What a field there is for the extension worker! and what a rich recompense! 
There is no calling, with the possible exception of motherhood and nursing, 
that brings such keen satisfaction to a woman as that of the home demon- 
stration agent. She is not bound by bells, hours, and four walls; she has no 
discipline to enforce; she is dealing with adult minds of active, inquiring women 
of experience; she has the whole countryside for her class room; she enjoys a 
freedom from sham and pretense that a class room instructor cannot know; her 
salary is far above that of the average teacher; she is a friend, a neighbor, an 
adviser, a playmate. She is "A little bit of heaven come down to earth in a 
Tin Lizzie. " 

Florence Carvin. 



1921] THE MERRILL-PALMER SCHOOL 545 

THE MERRILL-PALMER SCHOOL 

EDNA N. WHITE 
Director 

The will of Mrs. Lizzie Merrill Palmer, providing for the establish- 
ment of the Merrill-Palmer School, was signed May 17, 1916. The 
ninth paragraph of the will is as follows : 

I hold profoundly the conviction that the welfare of any community is 
divinely, and hence inseparably, dependent upon the quality of its mother- 
hood and the spirit and character of its homes; and, moved by this conviction, 
I hereby give, devise, and bequeath all the rest, residue, and remainder of 
my estate, of whatsoever kind and character, and wheresoever situated, for 
the founding, endowment, and maintenance, in the City of Detroit, or in 
the Township of Greenfield, County of Wayne, State of Michigan, of a school 
to be known as the Merrill-Palmer Motherhood and Home Training School, 
at which, upon such plan and system, and under such rules and regulations 
as shall, in the judgment and wisdom upon whom the administration shall 
devolve, be adopted, girls and young women of the age of ten (10) years or 
more shall be educated, trained, developed, and disciplined with special 
reference to fitting them mentally, morally, physically, and religiously for the 
discharge of the fimctions and service of wifehood and motherhood, and the 
management, supervision, direction, and inspiration of homes. 

Mrs. Palmer died July 28, 1916, and the will was admitted to probate 
June 26, 1918. The Court ordered that as soon as possible after the 
will had been admitted to probate the executors convey all the property, 
both real and personal, coming into their hands and belonging to the 
trust created by Mrs. Palmer's will, to the corporation to be thereafter 
formed and named the Merrill-Pahner Motherhood and Home Training 
School. Subsequently and on October 20, 1918, the corporation was 
organized with five trustees. 

As a result of the settlement and distribution of funds the corporation 
came into possession of property appraised at $3,000,000. This property 
was diversified in character, the income being low and the taxes on 
real estate high. It therefore became the plan to sell the real estate 
as judiciously as possible and reinvest in securities exempt from taxation 
and suitable for trust funds. The trustees felt that the organization 
of the school as an educational matter required special assistance and 
cooperation from women, and they soon associated with them six 
women as members of the corporation. 



546 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

The women members directed their efforts during the first year 
toward securing a director to take active charge of the real organization. 
Edna N. White, then in charge of home economics work at The Ohio 
State University, was selected. 

The present quarters occupied by the school consist of two private 
ofl&ces, one very large room, ample for the accommiodation of desks for 
the staff and for class room space, and a small kitchenette, immedi- 
ately adjoining, equipped for class use. A considerable library is being 
accumulated, and the largo room is in frequent demand for conference 
purposes as well as classes. 

The staff consists of the director, the secretary, Mabel R. Rodgers^ 
and two specialists — Ellen Miller, in charge of the development of 
economics and special phases of homemaking courses, and Lila Skinner^ 
in charge of nutrition. 

Policies: In the report of 1919, made by the trustees to the circuit 
court, in chancery, the policy of the Bor^rd was outlined as follows: 
"It is the policy of the trustees to preserve the endowment intact and 
conserve the resources; to use the income for teachers rather than 
buildings, during the formative stages at least. It has been deemed 
very important to delay the investment of any portion of the endow- 
ment, or the income therefrom, in buildings until study and experience 
have shown the lines to be followed and the exact requirements in the 
way of buildings." Study and investigation have shown the wisdom 
of this policy and the desirability of its continuance. It has further 
been agreed that the wisest and most helpful expenditure of funds^ 
from the standpoint of the community, would be in fields where public 
moneys could not be applied. 

In order to establish the place and usefulness of this institution in 
the field of homemaking education the work of existing agencies has 
been promoted and supplemented. Thus by developing the types of 
work already begun in the community, the group and fields most neg- 
lected have been determined. The net result of these policies has been 
the development of experimental work in cooperation with public 
and private schools and with social service agencies, such as public 
health nurses, foreign case workers, and vocational groups. 



1921] THE MERRILL-PALMER SCHOOL 547 

TYPES OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK IN PROGRESS 

Unit course in homemaking: This course has been planned to meet a 
situation common to both pubHc and private schools where the time 
is too limited to teach techniques or skills and where the need of the 
girl is to develop view-point and judgment. As far as possible the 
teaching is based on concrete material and this course has been given 
to a group of "continuation" classes in the public schools. 

The group of girls who have been returned to our schools by the 
operation of the so-called Continuation School Act constitutes one of 
the most difficult problems in the public school field. They are a group 
between 14 and 18 who have gone into industry, in most cases with 
little opportunity for home training. In cooperation with the teachers 
in charge of these girls an experimental study is being made by the 
Merrill-Palmer School as to the type of course best fitted to give them 
some viewpoint regarding home and family responsibilities, and some 
knowledge of the economic and social background of the home. The 
aim of such a course is to develop standards and judgment, for the large 
proportion of the group marry early and take on family responsibilities 
without understanding the importance of adequate training for 
homemaking. 

This piece of work is under the direction of Miss Miller. The course 
as planned is given to each girl in the school, the classes enrolled aggre- 
gating 600. Next year the new law will bring in a much larger number, 
and by that time it is expected that a well defined method will have 
been developed and will be in operation. While this course has been 
developed with the group of "continuation" girls, it will be adaptable 
to other groups in other types of schools where the need is for a general 
course in homemaking, rather than for a highly specialized course. 

Extension nutrition teaching: The prevalence of malnutrition among 
children, with its disastrous physical eflfects, is alarming. Conservative 
estimates place the numbers at between 25 and 33 per cent, including 
rural regions. It is probable that the prevailing high prices of food 
and the scarcity of certain types have greatly increased the number 
of children involved, although undernutrition is by no means confined 
to impoverished classes. The pressing need of better educational 
methods in this line became apparent, and the public schools seemed 
to offer the most eflfective avenue of approach. A survey showed the 
entire inadequacy of available material for the use of public schools. 
In addition to this the teaching had been confmed largely to a few 



548 THE joiTRXAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

specialists and was therefore limited to such groups as were able to 
secure their services. 

It seemed, therefore, necessary to plan methods and material for 
teaching nutrition through the work given by the regular elementary 
teacher. The Merrill-Palmer School secured the services of Anna R. 
Van Meter, formerly a primary teacher, and now specialist in the 
Nutrition Bureau of the National Red Cross, who prepared a first 
reader, the beginning of a Nutrition Series. Special outlines in nutrition 
to be used in connection with physiology are in process of preparation. 

Home prohlcin courses for social workers: The place and need of train- 
ing along homemaking lines in the field of social service is beginning 
to be recognized. In the work of the public health nurses the need 
for training in child nutrition is imperative. In nurses' training a limited 
amount of work is given in diet for the sick, but no attention is given 
to normal nutrition especially as it relates to children. In order to 
meet this need and to develop courses that will be useful to similar 
groups, the MerriU-Palmer School organized a class of Red Cross nurses, 
approximately twenty-five in number. 

The Americanization of foreign women seems at present an unsolved 
problem though its importance is generally recognized. In order to 
study the possibilities of reaching them through home training, an 
experimental class with the foreign workers of the International Institute, 
comprising approximately seven nationalities, has been organized. The 
first phase of the study has been along nutrition lines. 

Both of these studies are under the direction of Miss Skinner. 

Summary. The first consideration has been the development of 
methods and courses rather than the formal gathering of groups of 
students. The preliminary steps have been, first, to determine com- 
munity needs, and, second, to readjust subject matter and methods of 
teaching to meet these needs. Since we are unhampered by the limi- 
tations of organization and tradition we feel that this is the distinct 
and special service we can render. What has been accomplished has 
been due to the cooperation of the educational forces, especially the 
home economics teachers in Detroit and Highland Park. 

The Merrill-Palmer School is most anxious to secure the interest 
and cooperation of the home economics group in general, and wishes 
to extend a cordial invitation to visit the school whenever possible. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

LARDS AND LARD SUBSTITUTES IN HOUSEHOLD PASTRY 

MAKING 

A Progress Report 

MESTNA C. DENTON, RUTH BAIRD, FANNY WALKER YEATMAN, AND ROSALIE 

GODFREY 

Office of Home Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture^ 

Superiority as to quality and economy of fat for pastry or cake making 
or for frying has often been claimed by advertisers of many brands of 
cuHnary fats. Some of these claims are substantiated by the preference 
of pastry makers for this, that, or the other fat which they have been 
accustomed to use with good results. A notable instance is leaf lard, 
which sells for a higher price in wholesale markets, and often 
also in retail markets, than does the steam-rendered and refined 
lard, or than does a kettle-rendered lard which has been made 
from the other fats of the hog carcass. In spite of this fact and 
various traditions, however, the question is sometimes raised among 
housewives, whether the high grade leaf lard does have that superior 
quality for pastry making and for cake making, which would justify 
paying a higher price for it than for the best refined steam lard, or for 
a kettle-rendered lard which contains other fats than lard, or for certain 
lard substitutes. 

DEFINITION OF TERMS USED IN THIS STUDY 

1. Leaf lard comes from the internal fatty tissue of the abdomen of 
the hog, excluding that adherent to the intestines (mesenteric, omental) ; 
i.e., it includes the perinephritic and the peritoneal layers of fat. This 

1 We are greatly indebted for information and for helpful criticism to Dr. F. \V. Meyst 
and Mr. R. H. Kerr of the Bureau of Animal Industry, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

549 



550 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

tissue is often "kettle-rendered" by the manufacturer, or "tried out" 
by methods somewhat similar to those used in the household. Being 
a fatty tissue comparatively free from connective and muscle tissue, 
it is better suited to this method of rendering than are some of the fats 
taken from other parts of the hog. Lard may not be labelled "leaf 
lard" unless it is rendered from the leaf tissue only, unmixed with other 
fats. Back fat is also considered to be of comparatively choice grade; 
but a leaf lard which is mixed with back fat must be so labelled, accord- 
ing to federal regulations. 

2. Kettle-rendered lard may be made from leaf tissue only, but the 
greater portion of kettle-rendered lard ofifered to the retail trade is 
derived from mixed body fats. The smaller packing establishments 
are more likely to render their lard in an open kettle, because such equip- 
ment is less expensive for them and better suited to their needs. Kettle- 
rendered lard, if choice, has a color, odor, and flavor which suggest, 
to some degree, the best home-rendered lard. 

3. Steam lard, as its name indicates, is rendered by the use of steam 
under pressure. It is ordinarily derived from various mixed fatty tis- 
sues from the hog carcass. Prime steam lard does not come to the 
retail market as such, but goes to the refinery; from whence it makes 
its appearance as refined, steam-rendered lard — the "pure lard" of 
the trade, in contradistinction to lard compounds and other substitutes. 
Steam lards may be smooth, or they may be more or less granulated, 
owing to the formation of crystals of various sizes. It is well known 
that fats which cool very slowly and gradually often show a decided 
"grain," owing to the considerable size of crystalswhich thus have an op- 
portunity to form. Agitation of the mass of cooling fat also is conducive 
to "graininess." Steam lards frequently do. not have the creamy 
smoothness of a kettle-rendered leaf lard; yet that fact is not ordinarily 
counted either to their advantage or to their disadvantage, by the aver- 
age cook. 

4. A true lard compound^ according to the standards of the U, S. 
Department of Agriculture, is a fat in which at least 50 per cent of the 
constituents consist of lard, and in which 50 per cent (or less) consists 
of some other fat than lard, usually a vegetable fat. There is not a 
great deal of lard compound on the market; at least, such is our infor- 
mation at the present time. A lard compound may be considered 
as one of the many kinds of lard substitutes, although the reverse state- 
ment would of course be very far from the truth. 



1921] LARD AND LARD SUBSTITUTES 551 

5. In addition to the true lard compound just mentioned, there are 
many kinds of so-called "compound" (i. e., another sort of lard sub- 
stitute), and some of these have a very extensive sale. Most of them 
contain no lard whatever, yet they may be able to win favor or even 
marked preference from some housekeepers; while others assert that 
they ''can always taste" this or that ''vegetable lard," or other lard 
substitute, in the pastry or cake made with it. 

a. The lard substitute may be from mixed animal and vegetable 
sources, as is the case with "compound" {not lard compound), which 
usually consists of 15 to 20 per cent beef (or possibly lard) stearin, and 
80 to 85 per cent vegetable oil (cotton seed, peanut, or soy-bean oil). 

h. Lard substitute which is entirely from vegetable sources may 
consist of 10 to 15 per cent of a vegetable stearin which consists of hy- 
drogenated or hardened vegetable oil, mixed with 85 to 90 per cent of 
vegetable oil in the fluid state. It seems, however, that such mixtures 
are less commonly made now than formerly. 

c. Or, it may consist entirely of a hydrogenated vegetable oil, in 
which case the hardening is carried to a much less extreme degree than 
when only a small fraction of the oil is subjected to the hardening process. 

d. A third possibihty is the use of a vegetable oil (cocoanut butter) 
which is normally solid at room temperatures, provided those tempera- 
tures be not too high (temperate climate) ; or, what is more usual, the 
use of a vegetable stearin, separated by expressing the softer fats from 
cocoanut butter. 

COMPARATIVE PRICES OF LARD AND L.AJID SUBSTITUTES 

A brief survey, by no means complete, of a number of the retail mar- 
kets most largely patronized by householders in certain residential 
districts in Washington, disclosed the price conditions, October 12 to 
15, 1920, shown in table I. 

A brief consideration of the detailed table, from which these 
generalizations were taken, led us to conclude that with the exception 
of pure leaf lard, the range of prices of different lards (whether kettle- 
rendered or steam-rendered), and of the numerous lard substitutes, 
was about the same in all cases, so far as this study is concerned. The 
chief cause of retail price variation upon any given date appeared to be, 
not the chemical composition or physical characters of the fat concerned, 
but the character and management of the market in which it was pur- 
chased. In fact, these figures showed in several instances that one and 



552 THE jOTTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

the same article, enclosed in a labelled and sealed package, might show 
a variation of ten cents per pound in different markets, often not half 
a dozen blocks apart. 

TABLE I 

Prices of lard and lard substitutes P"« P" P"""'* 

Pure lard from Chicago packing house No. 1, rendered in open kettle from pure '^^"'^ 
leaf lard tissue, sold in 2 pound and 5 pound pails 35 to 42^ 

Pure lard from Chicago packing house No. 2, rendered in open kettle from mixed 
leaf and back fats, sold in 2 pound or 5 pound pails. (Cheapest in 5 pound 
pail sold at chain store.) 28 to 42 § 

Pure lard packed in local establishment, rendered in open kettle from mked hog 
fats, sold as 1 pound package wrapped in paper. (Cheapest at manufacturer's 
booth in city market.) 28 to 35 

Similar to above in materials and process but different brand and factory, sold 

from large bulk package 27 

Pure lard from Chicago packing house No. 2, rendered by use of steam under 
pressure from mLxed hog fats, and refined; sold in 2 pound pail 29 

Same as above, sold in carton. (Cheapest at chain stores, next cheapest at 

booths in city market.) 26 to 35 

Similar to above in materials and process, but different brand; rendered in local 
establishment and sold from large bulk package at manufacturer's booth in 
city market 25 

Lard substitute from Chicago packing house No. 1, contains no lard; a com- 
pound, 20 per cent beef stearin, 80 per cent cottonseed oil; sold from large 
bulk package 30 

Lard substitute from Cincinnati factory; a vegetable shortening, in which the 
entire mass (of cottonseed oil) is hydrogenated to a moderate degree; sold 
in 1 pound or 1^ pound can 27 to 35 

Same as above but sold in 6 pound cans 255 

Lard substitute from New Orleans factorj^, a vegetable shortening, in which the 
entire mass (of cottonseed oil) is hydrogenated to a moderate degree; sold 
in 1 pound can 35 to 40 

Same as above, sold in 2 pound can (chain store) 24 

Lard substitute from New York factory; a vegetable shortening composed of 
cocoanut butter stearin. (Price represented as being a substantial reduction; 
sample apparently still in good condition.) 22 

The influence of the size and kind of container was not found to be 
very great. A cheaper price was sometimes quoted, on a larger package 
than on a small one, and the character of container (metal, paper, etc.) 
sometimes made a slight difference in price; but these price differences, 
when they occurred in the same market and therefore might be con- 
sidered strictly comparable, usually amounted to less than one cent a 
pound. 

One of the important factors which controls price is the careful dis- 
crimination of the customer who knows what he must pay, in other 



1921] LARD AND LARD SUBSTITUTES 553 

stores or markets, for the article he wants to buy, and who accordingly 
refuses to pay a higher price. In those markets where the majority 
of the customers are not greatly interested in saving a few cents on each 
purchase, it is easy for the retailer to advance prices, even for standard 
articles in labelled, standardized containers. 

EXPERIMENTAL Vi^ORK 

Series A and B. Inasmuch as the claim had been urged on the part 
of certain manufacturers that certain lards (or lard compounds or sub- 
stitutes, in some cases) would "go farther" in baking than would other 
lards, so that "three parts of this shortening may be used in place of 
four parts of ordinary shortening," a rather severe test was planned. 
A formula (A) was chosen which makes a pastry which is quite low in 
fat; then another formula (B) was evolved from this, in which the amount 
of fat was 25 per cent lower than before. Where the amounts of fat 
used are very low, any decided superiority in shortening effect of one 
fat over another should be more quickly apparent than when a rich 
or moderately rich pastry serves as a basis for comparative tests. It 
may be added that, with proper manipulation, this very plain paste desig- 
nated as "Formula A" yields a tender flaky pastry, and one which is 
well worth while, especially when freshly made. 

Inasmuch as the physical condition of any given fat sample may have 
a great deal to do with its successful use in baking, there were also under 
investigation, in this same test, the claims of the manufacturers of grainy 
lards and of grainy "compounds" (or lard substitutes) for the super- 
ior shortening effect of their products. 

Six different fats were used, viz.: leaf lard, 100 per cent (kettle ren- 
dered) ; refined prime steam lard (mixed hog fats) ; open kettle-rendered 
lard (mixed hog fats); a "grainy" lard substitute composed of cotton- 
seed oil and oleo-stearin ; a cotton seed oil, 100 per cent of which was 
hydrogenated (but only to a very moderate degree) ; and a similar cotton- 
seed oil product from a different factory, whose product dift'ers greatly 
from the first in its physical characteristics. Samples were secured 
directly from the plant, in case of the first four fats of the series. The 
hydrogenated cotton seed oil products were purchased from Washing- 
ton city markets. 

The pastry was made by the following formulae: Formula A — 1 cup 
or 112 grams of flour, 3 tablespoons or 42 grams of fat (37 per cent of 
the weight of the flour), 2 tablespoons or 30 grams of water (26.5 per cent 



554 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

of the weight of the flour). Formula B — identical with A except that 
2 tablespoons or 31 grams of fat were used (27 per cent of the weight 
of the flour) . 

Each fat was used twice, once according to Formula A and once 
according to Formula B. This gave twelve different lots of pastry. 

In order to be sure that the manipulation used was exactly the same 
in every case, the number of motions made in mixing fat and flour to- 
gether with the knife was always counted and kept at a specified number. 
The same thing was true of the number of m^otions made in mixing 
water with flour and fat; and with those used in blending and also in 
rolling the dough. Furthermore, pains were taken to see that the fats 
and other ingredients were always at a given temperature (15°C.) when 
the mixing was begun. 

The dough was rolled to uniform thickness, without further addition 
of flour, or with the addition to the board of a specified amount; and 
cut into squares of specified size. It was baked always in a certain oven 
for a specified time at a specified temperature range and to a given shade 
of yellow or brown. 

The resulting pastries, when cold, were then judged by a number of 
persons, five of whom were required to grade the twelve pastries by 
setting each down in order of preference. In no case did any of the 
judges know the history of any of the pastries, nor the opinions of any 
other judge concerning them. 

All judges agreed that the pastries of any given series were ver^' much 
alike, and that it was difficult to make distinctions among those of the 
same series. Evidently the differences, though slight, were unmistakable, 
since there was fairly good agreement among the verdicts rendered. 
The results, as averaged from these five reports, in case of two separate 
tests made as above described, were as follows: First choice in each 
series, a certain "grainy" lard substitute. Second choice in each series, 
a certain cotton seed oil product (entire batch hydrogenated to a mod- 
erate degree). Third choice in each series, a certain kettle-rendered lard 
containing mixed hog fats. Fourth choice in each series, a certain 
steam lard (containing mixed hog fats). Fifth choice in each series, 
a second hydrogenated cotton-seed oil product. Sbfth choice in each 
series, a certain leaf lard (100 per cent). 

In no case was a pastry from the 31-gram series judged to be equal 
in texture and richness to any sample from the 42 gram series. It is 



1921] LARD AND LARD SUBSTITUTES 555 

evident therefore, that the statement cannot justly be made of any of 
these fats, that "three parts (of this fat) go as far as four" of other fats. 

Series C. In this series of experiments, which was performed by an 
investigator who did not know of the earlier experiments, the manipu- 
lation used was somewhat different; and it was modified, to suit the 
type of fat used, in this respect: those fats which mix less readily with 
the flour were given an additional number of cutting motions until the 
dough was judged to be thoroughly mixed. Even these differences 
were, however, carefully standardized, so that each fat received always 
the same number of cuttings, i.e., that which had been determined to 
be most suitable for it. 

The formula used in this series was as follows: 82 grams of flour plus 
3 grams of flour for board, 36 grams of fat (43 per cent of the weight 
of the flour), 17 cc. of water (20 per cent of the weight of the flour), 
1 gram of salt. This formula, though higher in fat than those used in the 
preceding series, is still much lower than are most of the household 
recipes; since the common rule, 1 cup of fat to 3 cups of flour, calls for 
fat equal to 67 f)er cent of the weight of the flour. 

Series C was repeated many times, using nine different lards (a pure 
leaf lard among them) and two "vegetable lards" (hydrogenated cot- 
tenseed oil) . Two of the lards were judged to produce crusts of shghtly 
superior texture; but the difference was so slight as to pass unobserved 
by all except the most experienced judges. These two lards were both 
steam lards; one of them was not a prime steam lard, and was suspected 
of containing a certain quantity of (lard?) stearin. It is barely possible 
that this may prove to be the cause of its slight superiority; the broad 
flakes which seemed to be characteristic of the crusts made from these 
two lards, reminded us of the flakes formed in a puff" pastry made from 
a fat which contained a considerable proportion of beef stearin. 

The differences among these different crusts were so slight that none 
of the judges, not even the most experienced ones, could say from the 
texture of the crust, when filled with apples and baked as a pie, which 
one of these fats had been used. 

It was found, however, that some of the judges did possess discrimina- 
tion with regard to the differences in flavor between lard and hardened 
cotton-seed oil products. One judge specially dishked the taste of 
lard, and could select crusts made from it, even in the case of refined 
steam lard, with a tolerable degree of accuracy. Other judges disliked 



556 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

the cotton-seed oil products, and could usually select the crusts made 
from them, though not with an accuracy of 100 per cent. It is, how- 
ever, quite difiicult for an untrained judge who does not specially dis- 
like one of these flavors, to discriminate between the crusts made from 
lard and those made from hardened cotton-seed oil. 

In making comparative tests for flavor of cakes and pastries, the 
greatest pains should always be taken to see that all samples of fat 
used have a good flavor before being cooked. It is manifestly unfair 
to compare a steam lard which has become even very shghtly rancid, 
or which is in some degree "off flavor," with a leaf lard which is still 
perfectly fresh, and vice versa. Our own experience, which is somewhat 
limited, indicates, however, that the leaf lard usually keeps its flavor 
longer, under the same storage conditions (open package in household 
refrigerator) than do most of the other lard samples. 

The relative merits of creamy and grainy fat were tested in the fol- 
lowing manner: A smooth creamy lard was melted and then cooled 
very slowly in a warm water bath; meanwhile it was beaten frequently. 
This treatment caused it to become "grainy," because of the oppor- 
timity offered for the formation of large crystals. Conversely, a grainy 
lard was melted, then cooled very rapidly (in ice water bath) ; thus a 
smooth creamy texture was produced. When the creamy and grainy 
samples of these two lards were compared in pastr\' making, it was 
found that they could not be distinguished. 

CONCLUSIONS 

1. When using different grades and kinds of lard in comparison with 
each other and with those lard substitutes which consist of hardened 
cotton-seed oil, it was found that the richness and texture of the crust 
depend upon the manipulation used and not upon the kind of fat used. 

2. Only a small proportion of the persons who ate the pies were able 
to detect the characteristic flavors of cotton-seed oil or of lard, in the 
baked crusts, particularly when baked with filling as pies. 

3. Graininess of texture does not, in itself, confer superiority upon 
a shortening, either as to ease of manipulation in mixing fat and flour, 
or as to richness of final product. This statement is not to be inter- 
preted as meaning that some grainy shortenings may not have excellent 
or even superior culinary qualities. 



1921] THANKSGIVING DINNERS 557 

THANKSGIVING DINNERS^ 

Good New Englanders observe their Thanksgiving Day as religiously as 
good Old Englanders do Christmas Day, and in very much the same way — 
by a more or less prodigious dinner, in which roast turkey is the pidce de 
resistance. 

Thanksgiving, which is held on the last Thursday in November, was in- 
stituted by the Pilgrim Fathers and dates from the early days of the settle- 
ment of the American Colonies, and the dinner of Colonial times was a very 
substantial affair. Here is a special menu which has come down to us: 

Punch 

Clam Chowder or Indian Pudding. Molasses, Butter 

Wild Turkey, Preserved Damsons, Pumpion Sauce 

Succotash 

Venison Pasty 

Sallets. Cheshire Cheese (Narragansett make) 

Pumpion Pie 

China Oranges. Glazed Almonds 

Grace Cups (Sack Posset) 

Every buffet of people of fashion contained a punch bowl; ever>' dinner was 
prefaced by a bowl of punch, which was passed from hand to hand and drunk 
from, without intervening glasses. Following the grace and punch, came the 
first course, clam-chowder or Indian-meal pudding; the latter was probably 
more often served. As late as 1817, at a Sunday dinner given at the house 
of President John Adams, the pudding of Indian-corn, accompanied by molasses 
and butter, was served at the beginning of the meal. 

In early colonial days the Thanksgiving turkey, it would seem, was easily 
obtained; all writers of the time agree that "beside waterfoule ther was great 
store of wild Turkies." These turkeys "sometimes weighed forty pounds 
apiece and sold for four shillings each." They came in flocks of a hundred, 
and all considered them far superior to the English domestic turkeys. 

For the "pompion-sauce" we subjoin a recipe given in 1671, in "New 
England Rarities:" 

■'The Housewife's manner is to slice them when ripe and cut them into 
Dice, and so fill a pot with them of two or three Gallons and stew them upon 
a gentle fire the whole day. And as they sink they fill again mth fresh Pom- 
pions, not putting any liquor to them, and, when it is stirr'd enough, it ^\ill 
look like bak'd Apples, this Dish, putting Butter to it and a little Vinegar 
with some Spice or Ginger, which makes it tart like an Apple, and so serv-e it 
up to be eaten with fish or flesh." 

1 From The Table, Vol. 69, No. 1786, p. 216. 



558 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

The first colonial housewives, newly come from Old England, were adepts 
in all culinary afifairs, and, as soon as they were comfortably settled in their 
new homes, they revived their knowledge of preser\ing, conserving, cordials, 
and the making of pastry, and, we might add, cheese-making, for early in the 
seventeenth century Cheshire cheese, made from a recipe brought from Eng- 
land, was sent from Narragansett to England and the Barbadoes in large 
quantities. 

The dinner finished, "grace after meat" was reverently said, all standing; 
then the "grace-cup," the lo\^ng-cup of to-day, was passed from guest to 
guest. After this came the old English games and mirth, as in the old rhyme: 

"And dinner, grace, and grace-cup done, 
Expect a wondrous deal of fun." 

The contents of the grace-cup was a highly-spiced drink sometimes made of 
cider, but more often of ale and sack, thickened with eggs and cream, and 
seasoned with nutmeg, mace, and sugar. It was boiled on the fire for hours 
and, according to the writers of that day, made "a very pretty drink for 
weddings and feasts." 



TURKISH COFFEE 

Possibly few of us realize that the famous Turkish coffee, which always 
comes to mind when one thinks of food in the near east, is very different 
from that to which we are accustomed. Roasted coffee is ground to a 
very fine powder. Quaint, but small, brass coffee mills are used. 

When coffee is made, water is poured on the coffee grounds and the 
whole is consumed. Milk and cream seem to belong to the Western 
world according to Mrs. Rosita Forbes who has recently written about 
oriental coffee customs in The London Sketch. " Can one take sugar with 
Turkish coffee and what becomes of the grounds when you stir it? 
The Bedouins add cinnamon and spice, or, in Syria, bitter cardamon seed, 
to their coffee. Scent of amber or attar of roses may perfume it; orange 
flowers may soak in it; musk may be poured through straw-stuffed 
racks of clay burmas into it, but never sugar. In fact, that is about the 
one thing that is wholly incongruous, for it is ground and mixed with 
the very coffee itself." 



EDITORIAL 

Catherine Josephine MacKay, dean of the home economics division 
of Iowa State College, died August 22 at the home of her brother in 
Winnipeg, Canada. Dean MacKay had not been well for the past two 
years and had recently been granted a leave of absence which her friends 
had hoped would result in her recovery to health. In Miss MacKay's 
death home economics has lost one of that group of noble women whose 
high ideals and untiring efforts finally succeeded in putting home econom- 
ics on a par with other collegiate courses, and securing for it the full 
recognition of colleges and universities. Furthermore, these leaders 
were not content to hmit their efforts to the students within the colleges, 
but carried homemaking instruction to women in the remotest parts 
of the country, through the extension service. 

When Dean MacKay went to Iowa State College in 1910, there were 
116 students enrolled in home economics, and she was one of a stafif 
of four instructors. Extension work was in its infancy. In the eleven 
years of her leadership the small department has become a division of 
the college, enrolling 800 young women in home economics and employing 
fifty instructors. The extension service numbers seven state specialists 
and twenty-five county home demonstration agents. 

Dean MacKay's work won national recognition. During the years 
1916-18 she was president of the American Home Economics Association; 
she served as a member of the National Food Administration Board under 
Herbert Hoover, and was Iowa State chairman of the Women's Council 
for National Defense. At the time of her death she was vice-president 
of the Iowa Equal Suffrage Association. 

Miss MacKay's early work was done in Winnipeg, Canada, where 
she had charge of home economics in the public schools of that city. 
Later she directed the home economics classes for the Young Women's 
Christian Association of MinneapoHs. She was a graduate of Drexel 
Institute and the Boston Cooking School and had done further study at 
Teachers College, Columbia University. In recognition of her leader- 
ship in home economics, the honorary degree of Master of Science was 
conferred upon her in 1917 by her Alma Mater, Drexel Institute. 

559 



560 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Another fitting tribute to her scholarship and splendid contribution to 
the field of home economics is shown by her election to membership 
in the honorary societies of Phi Kappa Phi and Omicron Nu. 

Those of us whose good fortune it has been to know and work with 
Dean MacKay, and to feel the charm of her graciousness and the sincer- 
ity of her comradeship, are mourning the loss of, not only a leader, but 
a dear friend. The secret of her success has been summed up by one 
of her colleagues in the following tribute: "Miss MacKay has all along 
had vision to see what might be; she has had foresight to plan well for 
growth; she has had ideals for high standards; she has had skill in pre- 
senting her plans; she has had tact in securing sympathy and support 
for home economics on the campus and throughout Iowa; she has had 
good judgment in surrounding herself with a capable, devoted instructing 
staft'; she has had abiHty to maintain the best of spirit in a large organi- 
zation; she has, withal, patience. If it had not been for this combina- 
tion of quahties, the story or the past eleven years might have been 
much different. " 

The spirit of Dean MacKay is typified by her last message for the 
Senior Class: "Will you find some way of expressing to the Senior 
Girls my bitter disappointment in not being there to see them graduate 
and to bid them God speed? They are all so dear to me. Their future 
means so much to the future of our state and country; their responsi- 
bilities are greater than have ever before fallen to the lot of young people. 
The world is in a state of chaos; it sorely needs trained men and women 
of sincerity, of good sound judgment, of vision, and of constructive 
energy. We need them everywhere, in the home, in the shop, in the 
factory, in the class room and wherever there are men and women to 
be led and boys and girls to be trained." 

Genevieve Fisher. 



Correction. The Journal expresses regret for the following error: 
Proceedings Number, September 1921, p. 422, Recommendations of the 
Committee on Extension Needs and Maintenance. Report submitted 
by Laura Comstock, Chairman. This report was submitted by Grace 
Fry singer, Chairman. 



1921 J EDITORIAL 561 

Whole Wheat versus White Bread. The teacher of nutrition is 
apt to be at a loss to know what she should be teaching in regard to the 
use of white and whole wheat flours. We are told on the one hand that 
of our cereal foods only the whole grains contain the mineral constituents 
and vitamines so essential for our well-being, and on the other hand that 
the coefticient of digestibility of some of the nutrients of the coarser flours 
is so low as to make their use scarcely worth while. 

According to Holmes^ the digestive apparatus of the human being 
makes but little use of the branny coats of wheat. The presence of bran 
either coarsely or finely ground even hinders the digestion of other food 
in the mixed diet probably because the stimulated peristalsis hastens the 
passage of the food through the body. The utilization of the protein of a 
mixed diet decreased by the presence of rather large amounts of commer- 
cial bran from 92 per cent to about 37 per cent. Briggs^ considers bran 
as no more nutritious or digestible than pulverized nut shells would be. 
When entire wheat flour instead of merely the bran is fed, the coefhcient 
of digestibility of its protein can be increased somewhat by grinding the 
grain more finely.^ 

Analyses (see Sherman," Chemistry of Food and Nutrition") show 
that iron particularly is present in much larger quantities in the graham 
and whole wheat flours than in the patent flours ; in plans for a diet high 
in iron, the darker breads and graham products usually occupy an impor- 
tant place. One naturally wonders whether this iron is actually avail- 
able when the remainder of the bran is so little affected by digestion. 
Data on the utilization by man of the iron of cereals seem to be entirely 
lacking. 

The only one of the vitamines which wheat furnishes abundantly is the 
water-soluble B, and the embryo of the different parts of the kernel is 
by far the richest in this substance, although the wheat kernels from 
which the embryo has been carefully removed are still rich in it. Osborne 
and MendeP "feel justified in the conclusion that except in special cases, 
little can be regained by including bran and embryo in the flour when this 
is used under the conditions prevailing in this country. The by-products 
of milling are better utilized on the farm than on the table 

'A D. Holmes: Experiments on the Digestibility of Wheat Bran in a Diet without 
Wheat Flour. U. S. Dept. Agr., Bui. 751 (1919). 

« C. H. Briggs: The Digestibility of the Branny Coats of Wheat. Science, 50, 427 (1919). 

' C. F. Langworthy and H. J. Deuell: Experiments on the Digestibility of Entire Wheat 
Flour Ground by Various Processes. Science, 51, 398 (1920). 

*T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel: The Nutritive Value of the Wheat Kernel and its 
Milling Products. Jour. Biol. Cheni., 37, 557 (1919). 



562 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS jNovcmber 

\Mienever bread made from highly milled flour forms an unduly large 
proportion of the diet of children the vitamine deficiencies may lead to 
malnutrition. In this country there is relatively little occasion to be 
concerned on this score beacuse the food habits of our people are such as 
to make cases of this kind comparatively rare. " There are others, how- 
ever, who believe differently. Voegtlin^ says that "a product containing 
no bran but containing the germ would not possess these objectionable 
features (intestinal irritation in susceptible individuals) and would at 
the same time be more nutritious and would greatly reduce the possi- 
bility of vitamine deficiency in the modern mixed diet. Increasing the 
vitamine supply in the diet should be our aim in order to insure a sufficient 
margin of safety, and increasing the vitamine content of our daily bread 
would go a long way toward accomplishing this end. " Some of the phy- 
sicians in charge of baby welfare clinics advise the use of only the whole 
cereals for gruels and breads for babies and nursing mothers to assure a 
high \Titamine diet. 

Our preference for white flour is largely a matter of habit encouraged 
by the fact that white flours lend themselves better to the making of the 
well-risen, fine-textured loaf to which we are accustomed. WTiere a need 
of increased intestinal peristalsis has made the use of coarser flours a 
necessity, a similar preference has often developed for the whole wheat or 
graham breads. Where our choice does not involve any actual dislike 
of the coarser breads, probably the most important point for considera- 
tion is that a diet on the verge of a deficiency of vitamines might find the 
whole wheat bread its factor of safety. 

OPEN FORUM 

Drawing the Line between Sociology and Economics. Where 
does sociology end and economics begin, or vice versa, is a question 
that has troubled not a few teachers and students, as these two closely 
related subjects have become more and more developed. According 
to Professor Franklin H. Giddings in a recent paper,i better results would 
be accomplished if the line of distinction were more sharply drawn. He 
also gives some pointed suggestions about methods of gathering socio- 
logical data. 

* C. Voegtlin and C. N. Myers: Distribution of the Anti-neuritic Vitamine in the Wheat 
and Corn Kernels. Amer. Jour. Physiol., 48. 504 (1919). 

1 Further Inquiries of Sociology, delivered at the annual meeting of the American Socio- 
logical Society, Washington, D. C, December, 1920. 



192 Ij OPEN FORUM 563 

In the same large sense in which economics is the science of the production 
and distribution of wealth, for man, sociology is the science of the production 
and distribution of adequacy, of man and in man. Economics tells us how, 
as far as it is possible, we can get the things that we desire to have; sociology 
tells us how, as far as it is possible, we can become what we desire to be. It 
tells us by what gropings and fumblings, through what relations with one 
another, and through what experiments in mutual aid mankind has acquired 
power to survive under varied and changing conditions, power to achieve, 
and capacity for happiness. Adequacy comprises endurance, health, repro- 
ductive vigor, intelligence, self control, ability to make adjustments with 
others and to get on helpfully with others in co-operation. Society produces 
these factors of adequacy in the same sense in which the breeder produces 
desired qualities in animals, namely, by selecting them and providing the con- 
ditions under which they can survive. The practical manifestations of ade- 
quacy are: individual initiative, individual responsibility, and an individual 
participation that is efficient and helpful in collective endeavor 

Studies of actual or possible betterment of the conditions under which and 
by which people live are economic investigations in substance, if not in form. 
Studies of actual or possible improvement of the people themselves are socio- 
logical investigations. It would conduce to harmonious relations between 
economists and sociologists if this discrimination were made in teaching and 
in the organization of university departments. Economists have a right, 
I think, to object when sociologists try to take from economics and annex to 
sociology studies of housing, cost of living, family budgets, wages, hours and 
conditions of labor, insurance, and pensions. With equal right sociologists 
could object if economists tried to appropriate studies of folkways, social 
pressure by taboo and bullying, social selection, organization, and morale. 
The sociologist should know his economics well enough to avoid making a fool 
of himself when he talks about economic problems. A more technical knowl- 
edge of the subject he does not need unless, besides being a sociologist, he is 
also professionally an economist. As a sociologist he must be technically 
trained and proficient in the behavioristic psychology and in statistics; and 
he must keep in touch with the workers in eugenics who inquire how the human 
race can be improved in heredity, and with the workers in religion, in ethics, 
and in education, who are the technicians of morale. 

How shall the further inquiries of sociology be made? What method or 
methods can be used and relied on? The method must be inductive and there 
is only one inductive method that sociology can use. It consists of three 
steps. First, accurate first-hand observations must be made in great number 
and carefully checked up. The second-hand observation of the interviewer 
has been overworked; it can yield us nothing but a journalistic sociology. 
Second, observations must painstakingly be recorded and inteUigently classi- 



564 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

fied. Third, the data so obtained and prepared must be subjected to statistical 
analysis for the purpose of discovering ratios, modalities, coefficients of vari- 
ation, and correlations. 

What facts shall be observed? Not static conditions only or chiefly. The 
survey has its place and its value, but it can never give us the laws of social 
change. To discover these we must observe and analyze social experiments. 
Social evolution has proceeded by trial and error. Mankind has made more 
experiments on and in society than on or in any other medium. They have 
been imperfect, errant, often erratic, and there is not much ground for hope 
that in the future they will become scientifically more satisfactory, because 
the sociologist cannot, like the physicist or the biologist, isolate one factor 
of a situation after another either by changing it while all other factors are 
kept unchanged, or by keeping it unchanged while all other factors are changed. 
Discouraged by this difficulty Mill in his Logic mistakenly tells us that the 
social sciences cannot successfully employ induction to any great extent, and 
must rely on the deductive reasoning used by the classical political economy. 
Mill apparently knew nothing of statistical theory or practice. Happily it 
is often possible, statistically, to isolate a factor and measure its value even 
when, from a laboratory view^joint, experimentation has been inconclusive. 
Scientifically imperfect social experimentation, bewilderingly varied and 
quantitatively enormous, is going on at present in every part of the world. 
It is the duty of the sociologist to observe and analyze it. 



THE QUESTION BOX 

Question : Is gelatine assimilated by the body cells? Is it in any way 
harmful? 

Answer: Gelatine lacks certain essential aminic acids — tryosin, cystin, 
and tryptophan — to make it a complete protein, and therefore it cannot 
be used to cover the protein requirements of the body. When it is used 
in combination with these lacking "building stones" in the proportions 
in which they occur in "complete proteins", nitrogen equilibrium may be 
established. In metabolism experiments it has been found that approxi- 
mately one-third of the protein requirements can be covered by gelatine, 
hence the statement frequently made that gelatine, is a "protein sparer." 
We know of nothing that indicates that gelatine is toxic. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics. By Her- 
bert Carter, Paul Howe, and Howard 
Mason. Philadelphia: Lea and Febiger. 
2d ed. rev., 1921, pp. 703. $7.50. 
The first edition of this comprehensive 
work was a welcome addition to our text- 
book literature of dietetics, especially on 
account of its sincere effort to organize 
scientifically our meagre knowledge of the 
principles involved in feeding the sick, and 
to correlate with these the best practices. 
The second edition has been entirely reset, 
with amplifications or minor changes at 
many points and more extensive revision 
of the chapters on Digestion, Energy Re- 
quirement, and Vitamines. One entirely 
new chapter has been added dealing with 
three different topics, Food Requirements 
in Pregnancy and Lactation, Food Require- 
ments and Feeding of Children, and Fasting. 
In the chapter on digestion the discussions 
of appetite and hunger have been extended 
and marked off by special headings, and a 
section on Sensibility of the Alimentary 
Tract has been added. Under Gastric 
Digestion attention is called to Carlson's 
recent work on the control of the pylorus, 
but no mention is made of Alvarez's work 
on the control of motor processes in the 
alimentary tract, and no attempt has been 
made to correlate Carlson's findings (p. 28) 
with Cannon's observations on the rate of 
passage of various food from the stomach 
(p. 54), nor is the point brought out that 
in man food begins to leave the stomach in 
a few minutes after a meal. 

The most important addition to the 
chapter on Energy Requirement is the pres- 
entation of the Harris-Benedict formula for 
the estimation of basal metabolism. 

The chapter on Protein Requirement still 
cites Thomas's data on the biological effi- 
ciency of proteins, though Sherman has 
shown that the values for wheat and corn 



are incorrect. No mention is made of 
Sherman's critical analysis of the data on 
protein requirement of maintenance in man, 
though he has shown that the probable error 
In a standard requirement of 44.4 grams of 
protem per man per day is only ±0.6 gram. 

A similar criticism applies to the dis- 
cussion of phosphorus requirement. The 
authors say "the phosphorus requirement 
of man has not been determined with any 
certainty" but Sherman has shown that a 
standard of 0.88 gram of phosphorus per 
day has a probable error of only ±0.01 
gram. 

The chapter on vitamines is brief and 
the omission of a table showing the distri- 
bution of the vitamines is rather surprising 
in view of the elaborate tables in other 
sections of the book. It is startling at the 
present time to read, "Two types of un- 
identified substances or vitamines have been 
detected and a third appears probable," 
at the top of page 103, especially as at the 
bottom of the same page the statement is 
made that "the third vitamine has recently 
been established as an entity." Discus- 
sions of scurvy, pellagra, and rickets are 
partly here and partly in other parts of the 
book, and it is unfortunate that no cross 
references are supplied. It is certainly an 
oversight that in the dietetic treatment of 
rickets cod liver oil is not mentioned. 

In the discussion of energy requirement 
in pregnancy it is stated that the energy 
metabolism of the mother in the later 
stages of gestation is increased approxi- 
mately 4 per cent, though Murlin's work 
is cited showing that the metabolism of 
mother and child immediately after birth 
is equal to that of mother and fetus just 
before parturition, amounting to from 10 
to 20 per cent, and Magnus Levy has re- 
ported a rise of as much as 25 per cent in 
the oxygen consumption in the ninth month. 

565 



566 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



There seems to have been little revision 
of the section on Foods, though so much 
work has been done on the vitamine content 
since the first edition was published. 

It is regrettable, indeed, that a work on 
the whole so excellent should not have had 
more careful editing and proof-reading. 
There are many errors in grammar (particu- 
larly singular subjects with plural verbs) 
and loose and misleading statements, for 
instance, that emulsified fat is "too stimu- 
lating" (p. 341) and that fat as a result 
of its oxidation plays a special r61e in the 
regulation of body temperature (p. 20). 
One can scarcely take seriously the state- 
ment that "animal fats being more nearly 
homologous are probably better than vege- 
table oils, and the fat from cod liver oil 
Etands at the head of the list; for certainly 
this fat furnishes something which is in 
addition to its hydrocarbon content" (p. 332; 
Italics are the reviewer's). One is left with 
the impression that the revision of this 
Valuable work was entirely too hasty, and 
the reviewer feels a keen disappointment 
that a book so much needed by students, 
nurses, physicians, and others should not 
have more fully justified the cost of a second 
edition. 

Mary Swaetz Rose. 

Household Chemistry For the use of students 
in household arts. By Hermann T. 
VuLTfe. Easton, Pa.: The Chemical Pub- 
lishing Co., 2d ed., 1920, pp. 243. $2.25. 
The new edition of Household Chemistry 
is a reprint rather than a revision of the 
preceding edition, published in 1915. The 
preface states that the book "is presented 
for the general study of chemical operations 
in the household," being designed for the 
needs of students in household arts of 
both secondary school and college grade. 
To adapt the book to either type of student 
the instructor makes such selection of 
material as best fits the needs of the class. 

As the title implies the subject matter 
deals with the chemistry underlying those 
household processes which are familiar to 
the student in her daily routine. It begins 
with a suggested outline for a course in 
organic chemistry which could very well 



parallel or be merged with the course in 
household chemistry. Following this is a 
chapter on the atmosphere and its com- 
position, relating it particularly to the 
respiratory needs of the body and to a few 
facts and principles, a knowledge of which 
makes for a more intelligent ventilation 
of the home. The chapter on water dis- 
cusses briefly those physical and chemical 
properties which have a bearing upon its 
use, as in the moderation of heat and cold, 
in refrigeration and heating systems, for 
cleansing and for drinking purposes. Two 
chapters are devoted to the discussion of the 
more common metals, glass, pottery and 
porcelain, their behavior with common 
reagents being stressed in order to make the 
application to the proper use and cleansing 
of household utensils. Natural and artificial 
fuels are taken up from the standpoint of 
composition, efficiency, and conditions 
making for greater safety and efficiency. 
Chapters on carbohydrates, fats, proteins, 
fruits and fruit juices, and tea, coffee, and 
cocoa are written around the chemistry 
which underlies the changes taking place 
during their preparation and use. The 
chemical principles upon which the leavening 
of flour mixtures is dependent is given in a 
chapter entitled, Baking Powders — Preser- 
vation and food preservatives; disinfectants 
and disinfection are covered by two chapters 
dealing with microorganisms, the changes 
they produce and the condition by which 
their action can be controlled. The chem- 
istry of cleaning includes a discussion of 
soaps, scouring powders, metal polishes, 
bleaches and stain removers, grease solvents, 
and bluings. A brief contact is made with 
volumetric and gravimetric analysis, the 
methods being directly applied to the analy- 
ses of vinegars, baking soda, cream of tartar, 
household ammonia, soaps, cereals, and the 
estimation of reducing sugars. 

The book as a whole contains much that 
is suggestive, particularly in the direct 
applications which are made to household 
and to body processes, and also in the experi- 
ments which are included to accompany 
and to provide the back ground for the 
text. To increase the bibliography and to 
summarize at the end of each chapter by a 



1921J 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



567 



series of questions, which would tie together 
the familiar occurrence and the chemical 
explanation, would strengthen the book, 
particularly for the college student for whom 
it is intended. 

Eleanor H. Bartlett, 

Pratt Institute. 

Vocational Homemaking Education — Ilhts- 
trated Projects. Edited by David Sned- 
DEN. New York: Teachers College, Co- 
lumbia University, 1921, pp. 149. $1.00. 
This pamphlet is the outcome of the 
work of a class of sixteen home economics 
students directed by Dr. David Snedden 
during the summer session of Columbia 
University for 1919. In a valuable intro- 
ductory chapter, Dr. Snedden states that 
the materials offered constitute in effect 
merely a report of progress, for the entire 
subject of the project method in home- 
making education is still tentative and 
experimental. Dr. Snedden goes on to 
point out the failure of mere technical 
instruction to function as vocational com- 
petency, and so the need of more practical 
objectives and more practical methods. 

The objectives must be derived from 
direct studies of homemaking as now prac- 
ticed by homemakers; from careful con- 
sideration of the extent to which practical 
training in the home itself can be depended 
upon to give basis for, or to supplement 
school training; and from a thoroughgoing 
study of the probable motive power for 
vocational education to be found in girls 
and women of different ages. 

Dr. Snedden thinks that the summer 
projects represent only a passing phase at 
best, desirable and necessary perhaps for 
whole-hearted participation in vocational 
projects where only part of the student's 
time can be given to the vocational program; 
but he predicts that, under any fulltime 
vocational program, the requirements of the 
summer months should certainly not differ 
from those of any other months. 

Following the introductory discussion of 
the project method is a provisional list of 
home projects listed under the headings 
Foods, Clothing, House Care, Laundry, 
Child Care, Accounting, Sick Nursing, 



Housing and Furnishing, Youth and Adult 
Sociability, and Garden and Yard. Type 
projects from these groups, worked out in 
detail by members of the class, compose the 
major part of the pamphlet. These follow 
the general plan of suggestions to the teacher, 
and directions for the pupils. The latter 
include guiding questions and references for 
pupils' use in study. The controlling pur- 
pose in the preparation of these analyses 
is to make the student as completely inde- 
pendent of personal consultation with the 
teacher or others as is practicable. 

It is a real contribution to the meager 
literature on the subject, even though, as 
Dr. Snedden says, it will be freely conceded 
by all who had a part in its making that 
they have proceeded only a few steps into 
this unexplored continent of possibilities. 

Mar gar in. By W. Clayton. New York: 
Longmans, Green & Co., 1920, pp. 187. 
This volume, which is one of the series 
of Monographs on Industrial Chemistry 
edited by E. Thorpe, includes a brief his- 
torical account of the development of the 
margarin industry; a description of the 
modern processes of the manufacture of 
margarins; a discussion of the chemistry of 
the constituents, and methods of their 
analysis and that of the finished products; 
chapters on butter, renovated butter, and 
compound lard; and a final chapter on 
nutritional chemistry, in which is discussed 
the question of the nutritive value of mar- 
garins from the standpoint of their digesti- 
bility and their content of fat-soluble 
vitamine. 

A brief discussion of the denaturing of 
margarin and an extensive bibliography are 
appended. 

Nutrition Bibliography. Prepared by the 
Bibliography Committee, New York 
Nutrition Council, May, 1921. Distribu- 
ted by The Health Service, New York 
County Chapter, A. R. C, New York 
City. 

This bibliography is the result of much 
effort by the committee in the critical col- 
lection of material and its presentation in a 
form which it is hoped mil prove serviceable 



568 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



to the physician, the organizer and super- 
visor of nutrition work, the field worker, the 
teacher, and the nutrition student. 

The references are presented under five 
headings. The first division presents tech- 
nical material dealing with standards of 
nutrition, growth, and development. The 
second pro^^des sources of information with 
reference to methods of determining mal- 
nutrition and various studies showing the 
social and economic causes for its develop- 
ment. The third contains references to 
reports of nutrition work organized under 
different auspices in different communities. 
The fourth provides information about re- 
liable reference material on health essentials, 
especially in relationship to points to be 
emphasized in educational work. The last 
section lists stories, charts, and other popular 
teaching material for use with children. 

Suggestions for further study are contained 
in bibliographies mentioned in various 
annotations and in a special bibliography 
list. On the last page of the pamphlet are 
printed the names and addresses of organiza- 
tions issuing pamphlet material listed in the 
bibliography, and also the addresses of pub- 
lishers of books and magazines expecially 
mentioned. 



The committee that prepared this bib- 
liography is composed of the following mem- 
bers: Clyde B. Schuman, Atlantic Division, 
American Red Cross, Chairman; John C. 
Gebhart, A. I. C. P.; Jean Lee Hunt. Bureau 
of Educational E.xperiments; Matilda J. 
McKeown, New York City Public Schools; 
Marie L. Rose, Child Health Organization; 
and Emma A. Winslow, Charity Organiza- 
tion Society, and Secretary of the New York 
Nutrition Council. 

Catalog of Literature for Advisers of Young 
Women and Girls, Compiled by Anna 
Eloise Pierce, Dean of Women, N. Y. 
State College for Teachers, Albany. New 
York: The H. W. Wilson Company, 1921, 
pp. 85. $1.00. 

This catalog is an annotated list of books 
and periodicals for the use of deans and other 
advisors of women and girls. 

The author hopes that the book will 
accomplish results in furnishing references 
for busy people, in helping to build up 
personal and school libraries, and in stimu- 
lating effective means of relieving the dearth 
of literature in various phases of an advisor's 
work. 

The bibliography is classified and is in- 
dexed under subject and author. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 



PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Miscellaneous 

The Neighborhood: A study of local life in the City of Columbus, Ohio. R. D. McKenzie, 
Amer. Jour. Sociol., Sept. 1921. 

Sociology and the Social Sciences. Robert E. Park, Amer. Jour. Social., July and 
Sept. 1921. 

Isolation and Social Conflicts. Victor S. Yarros, Amer. Jour. Social., Sept. 1921. 

Two Kinds of Vocational Education. Julius T. House, Amer. Jour. Social., Sept. 1921. 

Have American Wages Permitted an American Standard of Living? Abraham Epstein, 
Annals Amer. Acad. Polit. and Sac. Sci., Sept. 1921. A review of the important inquiries 
and their findings. 

Sugar and Sugars. J. J. Willaman, Atner. Food Jour., May 1921. Discussion of various 
sugars and their commercial possibilities. 

The Value of Calcium in Lactation. Emma Francis, Good Health, Sept. 1921. 

Height and Weight Standards in Nutrition Work Among Children of Foreign Parentage. 
Louis Dublin, Hasp. Social Service, June 1921. 



1921] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 569 

Organization of Nutrition Classes. Edward S. Rimer, IIosp. Social Service, June 1921. 

Dietetics in the Cottage Hospital. Florence Smith and W. D. Sansum, Modern Hosp,^ 
Aug. 1921. 

Some Dietetic Problems of Infancy and Childhood. Roger Dennett, Modern Hasp., 
June 1921. 

Nutrition Problems. Anna DePlanter, Modern Hosp., July 1921. 

Wider Scope for the Administrator. Emma Gunther, Modern Hosp., July 1921. 

Dietotherapy. Lula Graves, Modern Hosp., July 1921. 

Reducing Institutional Food Costs. Margaret Hooker, Modern Hosp., July 1921. 

A High Fat Dietary for Diabetic Patients. Breta Luther, Modern Hosp., Sept. 1921. 

Antineuritic Vitamine in Skim Milk Powder. J. M. Johnson and C. W. Hooper, U. S. 
Pub. Health Repts., Aug. 26, 1921. 

Growth-promoting Properties of Milk and Dried Milk Preparations. J. M. Johnson, 
U. S. Pub. Health Repts., Aug. 26, 1921. 

Bacterial Diagnosis of Human Botulism. K. F. Meyer and J. C. Geiger, U. S. Pub. 
Health Repts., June 10, 1921. 

Evolution and Organization of the Public Health Service. U. S. Pub. Health Repts., 
May 27, 1921. 

Italy's Care of Children. Gina Fodda, Mother and Child, July 1921. 

A Plea for the Country Child. Agnes Van Auken, Mother and Child, May 1921. 

The Place of Nutrition in Bringing the Undernourished Child up to Normal. E. V. 
McCoUum and Nina Sinmionds, Mother and Child, Aug. 1921. 

Solving Food Problems. Margery M. Smith, Mother and Child, July 1921. 

Fatigue Study. A Problem in the Home. Frank Gilbreath and L. M. GObreath, The 
Nations Health, June 1921. 

Pellagra and Poverty. Willford King, The Survey, Sept. 1, 1921. 

Practical Arts for Vocational Guidance in the Junior H. S. John M. Brewer, Man. Train- 
ing, Sept. 1921. 

Household Arts in the Intermediate School. Margaret Chambers, Indus. Arts, July 1921. 

Dietitians in Hotel. E. M. Statler, Hotel Mo., 29 (1921), No. 340, pp. 67, 68.— An account 
is given of the successful employment of dietitians trained in home economics to supervise 
and manage the problems of feeding hotel employees in a large hotel in New York. The 
success of the work in New York led to the employment of dietitians for similar purposes 
in large hotels in other cities. 

Food for Farm Families. Helen W. Atwater, U. S. Dept. Agr. Yearbook 1920, p. 471- 
484. Discussion of data from a dietary survey made by Office of Home Economics in co- 
operation with the Bureau of Markets. 

Boys' and Girls' Clubs Enrich Country Life. C. B. Smith, U. S. Dept. Agr. Yearbook 
1920, p. 485-494. 

Home Demonstration Bears Fruit in the South. O. B. Martin, U. S. Dept. Agr. Year- 
look 1920, -p. 111-126. 

Deficiency Disease with Special Reference to Gastro-intestinal Disorders. McCarrison, 
Brit. Med. Jour. 3103 (1920), pp. 822-826. 

The Question of Correct Diet. Teaching Food Hygiene to School Children by Museum 
Methods. Mary Greig, Natural History, Nov .-Dec, 1920. 

Mammal Fur Under the Microscope. Leon Augustus Hausman, Natural History, Sept.- 
Oct., 1920. 

The Water Supply of a Great City. Charles P. Berkey. Natural History, Sept.-Oct., 
1920. 

Objects that Symbolize the Common Life in Tibet. Natural History, Sept.-Oct., 1920. 
The Canned Milk Industry of the United States. Chem. Age, 28 (1920), No. 6, pp. 
187-188. Statistics of the industry including production of canned milk of different sorts. 



570 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

The Fish and Fisheries of South Africa. J. D. F. Gilchrist, So. African Jour. Indus., 
4 (1921), No. 2, pp. 124-132. 

The Manufacture of Macaroni. So. African Jour. Indus., 4 (1921), No. 2, pp. 133-138. 

Bulletins of Interest to the Cereal Chemist. Jour. Amer. Assoc. Cereal Chem., 6 (1921), 
No. 1, pp. 16, 17. — A bibliography. 

Rice: Bromi vs. White. M. E. Jaffa, Cal. Bd. Ilcallh Mo. Bui., 15 (1920), pp. 290, 291.— 
The composition of the two coats of rice in relation to the whole ration, of which the rice 
forms a part, is discussed. 

The Relation of Ventilation to Respiratory Diseases. J. N. Force, Cal. Bd. Health Mo. 
Bill., 16 (1920), No. 4, pp. 62, 63. This article discusses questions in relation to school room 
conditions. 

On Child Welfare in Czechoslovakia. Julia C. Lathrop, "Czechoslovakia Rev." 4 (1920), 
No. 9, pp. 313-317. An interesting account based on personal observations. 

Toy Industry. J. Vesely, "Czscho Slovakia Rev." 4 (1920), No. 9, pp. 324, 325. The 
possibilities of the Czechoslovakia toy industry are discussed and something said of the 
importance of folk toys or peasant-made toys. 

The Modern Cottage: Experiments in pise at Amesbury. C. Williams-Ellis, Jour. Min. 
Agr. [London], 27 (1920), No. 6, pp. 529-534. Pise, or Pise de terre is earth hard rammed 
between movable shutters arranged as a temporary mould. The soil used must have special 
characteristics, it is said. Some information about the kind of construction and the methods 
to be followed is given. 

Hand Loom Weaving. A. F. Barker, Jour. Min. Agr. [London], 27 (1920), No. 6, pp. 
561-563. The Te.xtile Department of the University of Leeds will help to develop hand- 
weaving projects in rural England on request. 

Society of Cotton Products Analysts. Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 12 (1920), 
No. 6, p. 610. 

Colloidal Fuel. Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 12 (1920), No. 6, p. 612. 

The W'earing Quality of Exterior Varnishes Compared with Their Physical and Chemical 
Analyses. W. T. Pearce, Jour. Indus, and Engin, Chem., 12 (1920), No. 6, pp. 552-555. 

The Causes of Loss in Bottles During Pasteurization and Sterilization [of Soft Drinks 
and Fruit Juices]. A. W. Bitting, Glass Industry 2 (1921), No. 7, p. 71. From "Bottles," 
May, 1921. 

Venetian Glass Beads. Glass Industry, 2 (1921), No. 6, p. 137. In this article, taken 
from Schnurpfeils Review, information is given regarding the manufacture of Venetian 
beads of different sorts and their use, as well as some commercial data. 

Glass Resistant to Sudden Changes of Temperature. A. Blum, Glass Industry, 2 (1921), 
No. 2, p. 34. A brief account, including formulas, is given of the new type of glass used in 
casseroles and baking dishes. "Apparently, the impetus to the large development of glass 
of this character for culinary vessels was produced by the discovery that lithia when added 
to the borosilicate glass enabled it to be worked more economically and without lowering 
its efficiency to resist sudden changes in temperature, and it is interesting to note that this 
development was entirely American." 

Evolution of the Mold Industry [in the manufacture of glass articles]. G. B. Arduser, 
Glass hulustry, 2 (1921), No. 2. The development of the use of molds in making bottles, 
electric light shades, glass dishes, blanks for cut glassware, and other articles, including 
those used in the home, is discussed. 

Devitrification and Revitrification of Glass. J. B. Krak, Glass Industry, 2 (1921), No. 2, 
Devitrification and revitrification appear to be reversible. Research may show some remark- 
able results, the application of which may greatly improve present methods of manufacturing. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

NEWS FROM MRS. NORTON 

Editors Note: A large number of home economics women, deeply interested in Mrs. Norton 
and her work, have eagerly awaited word from her. The following extracts front her letters to 
personal friends give us our first glimpse into the new and fascinating field in which she rep- 
resents home economics. 

The passage has been a very comfortable one, a little rough, but not enough for me to 
mind. Most of the weather has been cloudy but there has been only one really cold day, 
and two days were quite warm. One day we were in sunshine and snow flurries alternately, 
but it was warm in spite of the snow. The first three days I did not do much but sleep, a 
good deal of the time in my steamer chair. Most of the time I have breakfasted in bed, and 
then read awhile before getting up. The food is very good — real French cooking. Break- 
fast is the least satis'factory, and there is no danger of my drinking too much coffee! . . . 

We reached Paris at about one o'clock and after getting my room at the hotel I went to 
the American Express Company to see about my reservation to Constantinople. The train 
goes three times a week, Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Apparently everything is 
very comfortable on it. It carries a dining car. The route is through Milan, Venice, Trieste, 
Belgrade, Adrianople 

We reached Constantinople a little after eleven. An hour before we reached there the 
customs officers came through the train and inspected our hand baggage. They appropria- 
ted my typewriter and lunch box and said that I could get them "next day." At the station 
a nice looking man was waiting for me. He had a car for me, and a driver, who was evidently 
Turkish, insisted that all my baggage be got through customs that night. He could speak 
English very well and also knew all the ropes. He said, "if your things go to the big custom 
house it will take all day to get them out, and perhaps you will never get them. This is not 
Europe." So we spent an hour getting them, but it paid, and I actually arrived with all 
my baggage 

This afternoon I had a walk on the hills behind the college where there is a glorious view 
down the Bosphorus, and where we could see Constantinople, both Pera and Stamboul, and the 
Sea of Marmora. We could see to the city on the other side of the Bosphorus, Scutari, and 
the settlement south of it, and behind them the mountains. I cannot get over the thrill it 
gives me when I realize that I am really looking into Asia 

In my last letter I only got as far as my arrival at the college. Now I must tell vou a little 
about it. You have all seen the picture of the main building, but the picture does not do it 
justice, for it does not show the setting. It stands on a high hill not quite at the top, so 
that the hill rises a little behind it. There are many trees about it, chiefly at the side and in 
front of it. Indeed the top of the steps is about the height of many of the tree tops. Look- 
ing down from the steps one sees terraces and beyond them hills, then the Bosphorus, and 
beyond still the Asiatic shore, then high hills that now are covered with snow. The water is 
a wonderful blue most of the time, and there are boats going up and down constantly. Many 
of the trees are evergreen. There are beautiful magnolias and others that I do not know. 
In the garden into which my \\dndows look, there are almond trees that were beginning to 
blossom last week, and there is English ivy everywhere, growing along the ground and circling 
the tree trunks. There are a great many buttonwood trees, but most beautiful of all are the 
cedars of Lebanon, a wonderful spruce tree, and the umbrella shaped pines. 

571 



572 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

From the college to the entrance of the college grounds is about a ten minute walk down a 
steep hill, and at the foot of the hill is the preparatory school, an old Turkish palace. I think 
that the college grounds were all part of the palace gardens. The college grounds are walled 
in with very high walls, and the gates, both at the foot of the hill and on the hill back of the 
college, are great wooden doors. There are guards about all the time. There is one for this 
building that I meet when I come back in the evening. Most of the maids and waiters and 
guards speak very little English, but they all seem to know French. It seems so necessary 
to have a little French that I have begun French lessons. 

The house that I am in is called Barton Hall. The faculty are nearly all Americans though 
there are a few English and a few natives 

Breakfast here is at 7:30 except Sunday and Monday, when it is at 8. Monday is the 
weekly holiday instead of Saturday. Luncheon is at 12, tea at 4, and dinner at 7:30. After 
dinner we go into the drawing room for Turkish coffee and usually chat for a while, so that 
there is not very much evening left. It is always half past eight when I come back to my room 
and often nine or later. On the other hand there is a good long afternoon for out of doors or 
social engagements. It is very difficult to go any^vhere in the evening, for we are a long way 
from town and the tramcars stop running very early, so one must take an auto. Tea is very 
informal except on special occasions. Every one drops in in work clothes and eats bread 
and butter, jam, and tea. On the 15th of March daylight saving begins here, and then from 
tea till almost dinner time it will be light and one can be out of doors. My second day here 
was beautiful weather, too, and part of it was spent walking, and most of the rest in unpacking 
and arranging my things. I had a little conference with Dr. Patrick in the morning, and 
met one of the Turkish graduates who is in the registrar's office in the college, and who we 
thought might get me into some Turkish homes. In the afternoon Dr. Patrick called on me 
in my room and that night she asked to dinner Mr. Johnson, who is at the head of the "sur- 
vey" that is being made of Constantinople. We thought through this I might get entrance 
into the homes. With all this effort I went into my first native home only this morning. 
This was a Greek home, and I am hoping to see some more soon. Mr. Johnson asked me to a 
luncheon of the survey committee my first Monday, and again this week, and I am to go reg- 
ularly and keep in touch with what they are doing. I met there Miss Phillips of the Welles- 
ley Unit who are with the Near East Relief. 

As I wrote, there is no opening for refugee work, as the different organizations have taken 
that in hand, and are doing all they can. Not that the refugees are really taken care of. 
Many of them are without work, many are selling any personal belongings they may have at 
a fraction of their value, and many are suffering all sorts of hardships. We heard yesterday 
of one general who had a beautiful home in Russia who is trying to earn a living by carving 
wooden toys, while he and his family are living in one room. There is a man working on our 
place here who was one of the very wealthy people, and his step-daughter is our maid in this 
hall. The college has a number of Russians who are working for room and board and 15 
liras a month, and are very thankful to have the work. Mr. Briggle says he could get any 
number of them to come and he could easily use a hundred, if the college only had the money. 
Does it not seem too bad when the college needs the work done and the people need the work 
that someone could not furnish the funds? Several of the refugee girls have been given schol- 
arships in the college. 

To go back to my own work. Until I can do more visiting I am seeing as many people as 
I can, and talking with different members of the faculty about the needs of the girls, and 
planning my courses. It happens that the curriculum committee is just working on plans for 
next year, and I am in time to have my work go in. Everyone seems interested and promises 
cooperation, and my courses will be fitted in, in a way that they could not possibly have been 
if I had come much later. Then I am helping get out some leaflets about the different 
departments. 



1921] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 573 

This week I have been in two Greek homes, one with Miss Thomson of the Near East 
Relief, at Arnaouthkuey, our village. This was a call on a well-to-do woman who is giving 
volunteer help for the N. E. R. and was to take us to see the children in the schools. We saw 
the school house but not the children, for it was a half holiday, but the Greek lady, Mrs. 
Crestovich, has promised to go with me some other time. She speaks English very well, 
and talked politics to me. The school was very forlorn, for the school building has burned 
down, and they were using rooms in a theatre. There seemed no prospect of a new building, 
for there is no money. Constantinople seems full of ruins. There are a great many fires 
here and nothing seems to be rebuilt. All the schools seem to be suffering. The Turkish 
teachers have struck because they have not been paid for four months. Indeed it is a pathetic 
country now, %vith no money, no work, and no outlook for immediate improvement. Miss 
Dodd, who has been here for 37 years, has told me of the wealthy Turkish families whom she 
used to visit, whose houses have been taken by the English, and who have lost all their money, 
and now are living in cramped quarters on a pittance. 

The other Greek home that I visited was that of Miss Johanides, a graduate of this college, 
who has been getting her Ph.D. at the University of Geneva. She is a very charming young 
woman who is working on the "survey," and asked several of the "survey" people to tea at 
her house. The houses all seem to me a sort of modification of the old Greek and Roman 
house. 

Saturday morning I visited a childrens' clinic held by Dr. Gregg of the Wellesley Unit of 
the N. E. R. She has 6 of those clinics in different parts of the city. The room was crowded 
with children and mothers, and one wondered how the doctor with the little help she had 
could accomplish so much. She was doing a remarkable work. Some of the children were 
from refugee camps, and some of them were very attractive looking. They were examined, 
given prescriptions that some nurses filled, and given milk when needed. The mothers who 
came with the children were chiefly war widows, some of them wanting work and not able to 
get it 

Last week, Monday, I went to Stamboul to Cedik Pasha, the school of the American Board. 
After I had seen the school Miss Jones took me to call on some of their neighbors, who were 
willing to show me their kitchens and how they cooked. Two of the homes were of very 
well-to-do people, but the ladies were very kind and answered my many questions, one of them 
showing me just how she built a fire in her ochak in the most economical way. She could 
speak very good English, so I learned a good deal from her. The other place we went was 
the home of a working man who had been janitor of the school. Here a family of three were 
living in one room, but it was of fair size and light. There was a big pile of bedding at one 
side, neatly covered, and holding the mattress that made the husband's bed and the covers. 
The bed was made up on the floor. There was a mongol, the movable charcoal brazier that 
served both for cooking and heating the room. There was a dish of beans cooking with the 
cover turned upside down and filled with water, so that when the beans needed more water 
it was already hot. The woman insisted on making coffee for us. She removed the pot of 
beans and put on her longhandled coffee pot just large enough to make one cup, adding water 
then sugar, and when it boiled, the finely ground coffee. The first cup was passed to me and 
then the process had to be repeated to make one for Miss Jones. 

The ochak is built in, with a cupboard under it for keeping the fuel. Those I saw had 
three places for cooking, each somewhat like this. There was no oven, as bread is bought, and 
anything mixed in the house is taken to the public oven to be baked. The ochak has a hood 
over it to carry off the fumes, but the mongol sends all its products of combustion into the 
room. Charcoal is the fuel for both. Many people have a little oil stove called the primus 
that I have seen used at home in laboratories where there was no gas. Well-to-do people 
are using also the blueflame oil stove that the Standard Oil Company has introduced here. 

One book I was reading said that as a matter of habit we speak of four seasons here, but 
there are really only two, the north wind and the south wind. That seems to be pretty 



574 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



nearly true. The cold winds sweep down the Bosphorus from the Black Sea, and the warm 
ones sweep up from the Marmora. On this hill we get the full sweep of the north winds. I 
can understand why Miss Jones at Cedik Pasha said it was warm here, for that school is on 
a slope toward the Marmora, protected from the north winds and getting the warm south 
winds. The teachers here say that they dress more warmly than at home, though it never 
gets so cold as it does there, for there are flowers blooming all the year round and the English 

ivy and other vines are not winter killed 

On the 27th of this month begins the spring vacation of ten days. This is at the time of 
the Greek Easter. There seems to be a good deal of vacation here, for every month there is 
a "monthly holiday" that means a free Saturday as well as the usual Monday. Many of the 
girls go home at the time, and the teachers often plan outings. This spring vacation some 
of the teachers are going to Brusa, and I may join them, for it will give me a little glimpse of 
Asia, and, perhaps through Miss Parsons at the school there, or through the Red Cross, I 
may be able to get into some of the homes. 



The Third International Congress of 
Home Economics Instruction, postpon- 
ed from July, 1921, has been called at 
Paris, April 18 to 21, 1922. The arrange- 
ments for the Congress are in the hands of 
the French National Committee of which 
the chairman is ^lonsieur Champetier de 
Ribes, 23, rue Bertrand, Paris. The honor- 
ary committee is headed by Madame Mil- 
lerand, the Minister of Agriculture, and the 
Minister of Public Instruction. 

The program, which will be the same as 
that planned for 1921 and printed in the 
Journal for March, 1921, will include the 
following topics: 

The situation of home economics through- 
out the world, before, during, and after the 
war; the position of home economics in the 
schools and colleges; the relation of home 
economics instruction to education in the 
home and to professional education; normal 
and rural school problems; inspection of 
home economics instruction; home eco- 
nomics in relation to social problems, such 
as housing, food, child hygiene, cooperative 
organizations of consumers, high prices, 
and food adulteration; and professional 
training of servants in the home. 

The conditions of membership and partici- 
pation in the Congress will be the same as 
those described in the March Journal. 

Although the Easter date is less con- 
venient for Americans than a midsummer 
one, it is hoppd that there wall be a repre- 
sentative attendance from this country, 
and that a good exhibit of American methods. 



institutions, and accomplishments may be 
sent to Paris. The next issue of the Journal 
will contain further information on these 
points. 

Nutrition And Health Classes For 
Children. Believing that a reasonable 
approach to the nutrition problem is along 
educational lines, and one that makes use 
of the individuals and the agencies already 
existing in and about the public schools, 
the University of Iowa has been actively 
interested in a school program. This work 
has been planned with the thought that 
the home economics teacher, the school 
nurse, the school dentist and physician will 
cooperate closely in a common program. 
Classes of children have been organized 
under the general direction of the Home 
Economics Department of the University. 
Closely cooperating in the entire program 
are the Child Welfare Research Station, the 
Colleges of Medicine, Dentistry, and Edu- 
cation, the University Observation School, 
the departments of Public Health, Public 
Health Nursing, and Home Economics. 

During the summer session of 1921 a 
special offering was made to home economics 
teachers, school nurses, and other persons 
interested in the organization and conduct 
of nutrition and health classes for children. 
A special course entitled "Nutrition and 
Health Classes for Children" met daily for 
two hours. During this period special 
lectures and demonstrations were given by 
individuals from the cooperating colleges 



1921J 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



575 



and departments. Valuable contributions 
have also been made by the departments of 
Physical Education and Sociology. 

During the summer, a special worker from 
the Nutrition Service of the .\merican Red 
Cross conducted the classes of children who 
were under observation, and also took 
part in the general class program. Among 
the subjects for consideration in the daily 
class meeting were food and nutrition of the 
child, scientific measurements of the normal 
child, sources and significance of the growth 
norms, charts and growth records, factors 
concerned in the development and preserva- 
tion of good teeth, the physical examination, 
general health habits, phj'sical education, 
social aspects of the nutrition problem, the 
organization and conduct of the class, and 
other pertinent matters. 

The following supplementary activities 
were provided for the students who took 
the course: 

1. The observation and study of two 
nutrition and health classes which were con- 
ducted in the Observation School of the 
University, (a) The first grade, with 26 
children, met twice a week for periods of 
20 minutes each, (b) The 4th, 5th, and 
6th grade (as one class) with 35 children, 
met twice a week for periods of 30 minutes 
each. 

2. A weekly round table for the discussion 
of topics of special interest. 

3. Weekly conferences in groups of 3 or 
4, for the more intimate discussion of more or 
less individual problems. During these con- 
ferences lesson plans and courses of study 
were worked out to meet given conditions. 

4. Attendance at the weekly conference 
hour which was held for mothers. The 
students observed and also assisted by dis- 
cussing the children's charts with the 
mothers. Each student was responsible for 
the charts of a given number of children. 

5. Opportunity for home visiting, in the 
homes of the children for whose charts they 
were responsible. 

6. Scheduled observations, in groups of 2 
or 3, of the dental and physical examination 
of children in the nutrition and health 
classes. 



7. Scheduled individual instruction, and 
practice in weighing children in the classes 
and in the making of measurements. 

8. Individual responsibility for weekly 
weighings of certain children, for making 
their charts, and keeping their records. 

9. Opportunity to do intensive work with 
children in the classes who varied pro- 
nouncedly from normal. 

When time and circumstances make it 
possible, students should be given experience 
in activities, such as: (a) Actual conduct of 
nutrition and health classes, (b) Speaking 
to pupils, at assembly periods, on the subject 
of nutrition and other health habits, (c) 
Speaking at mothers' meetings, women's 
meetings, teachers' meetings, on the subject 
of nutrition and other health habits. 

This summer the underweight children 
were not separated and put into a special 
class. The whole group received instruction 
during the regular class period. The 
children who varied too much from the 
height-weight norm received special help 
through outside conferences and home 
visits. 

Ruth Wardall. 

An Experiment In Saving Steps. The 
Home Management Class at Alabama 
Technical Institute and College this year 
agreed that saving time and energy in 
household operations should be one of its 
chief aims. 

Nabors Hall, the practice house where the 
laboratory work of the course is done, is an 
old southern residence with the usual large 
rooms and few conveniences. The girls live 
in the house, in groups of four for twelve 
weeks, each taking her turn as hostess 
(manager), maid, cook, and host. 

The class of the summer of 1920 planned 
a number of improvements, which were 
installed by the college carpenter: one 
small window on the north side of the 
dining room was replaced by three large 
ones, a convenient cupboard was built in, 
between the dining room and kitchen, which 
opened on both sides; a door was put above 
the refrigerator, so that ice and milk could 
be put in from the back porch by the delivery 



576 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



men; a small table was placed in the pantry 
with flour and meal cans on a low bench 
beside it; to the left were put shelves for 
food supplies and such utensils as would be 
needed there. The refrigerator was across 
in the other comer. This made a very 
convenient arrangement where most of the 
actual preparation of food for cooking could 
be done. 

The girls timed themselves in the various 
household operations and got some interest- 
ing comparisons. Some showed consider- 
able improvement, but they still found 
themselves taking needless steps because 
they "did not think." 

We bought a pedometer which each girl 
wore when she was cook. They were very 
much surprised to find that many times a 
girl would walk two miles and a half, or take 
approximately eight thousand steps in pre- 
paring three meals a day for five people. 
The maid did the dish-washing, so this 
was not included Our meals were simple, 
usually consisting of fruit, toast, and a 
beverage for breakfast; a salad and sand- 
wiches, or something similar for lunch; and 
a meat, two vegetables, a dessert, and hot 
bread for dinner. 

The girls soon learned to save themselves. 
The average became one-fourth of a mile 
for preparation of breakfast and starting 
lunch, one-fourth mile for lunch, and one- 
half to three-fourths of a mile for dinner, 
or about three thousand steps instead of 
eight thousand in one day. They found 
that the pedometer had made them think 
and thus save useless movements even 
when they were not wearing it. 

Gail Bukfield, 
Supervisor of Practice House. 

Red Cross Cafeteria. Through its low 
priced, but well balanced, menu, the cafe- 
teria at the National Headquarters of the 
American Red Cross in Washington has 
achieved a national reputation. It was 
started only three years ago, with a pat- 
ronage of 500, but today its average of 
1400 luncheon guests includes eminent 
politicians, Army and Navy men, and 
tourists from all parts of the world. The 
cafeteria has become one of the show places 
of Washington. 



Ruth Cleves, the manager of the restau- 
rant, is a 1916 graduate of Cornell Uni- 
versity, having specialized in home eco- 
nomics. For a year after graduation she 
managed the university dining room at 
Ithaca. 

An idea of prices may be obtained from the 
following schedule. Soups, five cents; 
salads, including mayonnaise dressing, 15 
cents; vegetables, from 6 to 8 cents; meats, 
25 cents; desserts, 8 cents. Desserts in- 
clude melons, puddings, and pies. Half 
pint bottles of milk, for five cents, are 
especially popular. 

The cafeteria, during the three years of 
its existence, has not only paid for itself 
twice over, but is doing the work of a 
8200,000 endowment fund for the Red Cross. 
Its profits amount to more than 812,000 a 
year. This money goes back into the work 
of the Red Cross. It helps support the 
program which the membership dollars, col- 
lected during the Fifth Roll Call of the 
American Red Cross, November 11-24, 
will support. This program calls for service 
to disabled soldiers, aid for European war 
orphans, disaster relief, and promotion of 
public health. 

Child Health Demonstration. Mans- 
field and Richland County, Ohio, have been 
selected by the National Child Health 
Council as the scene for unique demonstra- 
tion of what American communities can do 
for the most healthful development of 
their children. The selection of Mansfield 
was announced after a strong competi- 
tion among eighty communities which for 
several months past have striven to obtain 
this distinction and advantage. It was felt 
that conditions in Mansfield and Richland 
County most nearly complied with the 
qualifications laid down by the Council 
for the purpose of securing a typical Ameri- 
can community. 

This demonstration will cover a period 
of five years and wall deal with children of 
all ages. It will be directed by Dr. Walter 
H. Brown, formerly health ofl&cer of Bridge- 
port, Connecticut, who will relinquish his 
present work with the Commission for the 
Prevention of Tuberculosis in France. 



1921] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



577 



New York State Home Economics 
Association. The program of the meeting 
to be held in BufTalo, November 21 and 22, 
is as follows: Household Arts and the Ele- 
mentary Schools, Grace Schermerhorn, 
Director of Cooking, New York City 
Schools; Discussion, led by Treva Kauf- 
man, Supervisor Home Economics, New 
York State; Economics of the Household, 
Martha Van Rensellaer, Cornell University; 
Discussion, led by Emma Gunther, Teachers 
College; Field News from the Other Side, 
Edna White, Director Merrill- Palmer School, 
Detroit, Michigan; Business Meeting, led 
by Mary Sweeny, or another officer of the 
American Home Economics Association. 

Cooperative Research on Mayonnaise 

is being conducted in various Home Eco- 
nomics departments under the direction 
of Dr. Kenneth L. Mark of Simmons Col- 
lege, with a view to solving some of the 
vexing problems connected with the making 
of mayonnaise. This is the first piece of 
extensively organized cooperative research 
to be undertaken, and it is hoped that it 
will help to expedite the obtaining of definite, 
checked results. Different phases of the 
problem are being studied by different 
colleges; thus duplication of effort is avoided. 
Some of the questions to be answered are: 
Why does mayonnaise curdle? What is the 
effect of varying temperatures of ingredi- 
ents? Just what does happen in mayon- 
naise making? 

Dr. Mark has conducted extensive work 
on these and other phases of the problem, 
but there are still many opportunities for 
investigation. Dr. Mark will be glad to 
receive any offers of cooperation from col- 
leges which have not already joined in this 
undertaking. 

Project in Demonstration Cookery. 
During the summer session at Teachers 
College, an opportunity for field work was 
given to the students in the class for practice 
in demonstration cookery. One afternoon 
each week was spent in a New York 
City public school, where the students 



demonstrated in turn to the mothers who 
brought their children to the playground. 
While the babies slept out of doors in the 
swings, the mothers had a chance to rest 
and to discuss food in relation to the health 
of their children. 

The Eastern States Exhibition was 

held in Springfield, this year, the week of 
September 18th. In connection with this 
fair the boys and girls work was repre- 
sented by the Camp Vail activities. This 
camp is the outgrowth of the projects carried 
on by the boys and girls, and its activities 
will bring together some of the newest ideas 
in demonstration methods. Bess Rowe, 
woman's editor of the Farmer's Wife, and 
Mary Barber of the Foods and Cookery 
Department of Teachers College will serve 
on the advisory board. 

EXTENSION WORK 

New State Leaders in Extension 
Work, appointed since June 30: Miriam 
Haynes, State Leader of Colorado, has 
returned to her work in the state after 
taking a year's leave of absence; Lucile 
Reynolds, formerly of the extension staff 
of Montana, after a year's study at the 
University of Minnesota, has been appointed 
State Leader of Home Demonstration Work 
of Massachusetts, in the place of Marie 
Sayles, now State Leader of Ohio; Susan 
Wilder, formerly of Minnesota, for the past 
three years home demonstration agent of 
Hancock County, Illinois, has been made 
State Leader of South Dakota. 

New Specialists in Extension Work, 

appointed since June 30: Clothing — Edith 
Mason, Connecticut, Marjie Haugh, Illinois, 
Azalea Linfield, South Dakota, Elsie Stark, 
Minnesota, Ruth Freegard, Missouri, Rachel 
Harris, Assistant Clothing Specialist, Ne- 
braska; foods and nutrition — Bertha Scholes 
and Rosemary Laughlin, Illinois, Flora 
Thurston, New York, Margaret Cassel, 
Missouri; household management — Ida Fra 
Clark, Missouri. 



578 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



Conference of Specialists in Health 
and Nutrition. Specialists in health and 
nutrition, employed in the thirty-three 
Northern and Western States extension 
divisions, have been called together for 
three regional conferences: Eastern states 
specialists at the New York State College 
of Agriculture for the week beginning 
October 17. Specialists of the Middle West 
at the Minnesota Agricultural College, 
St. Paul, for the week beginning October 31. 
Specialists of the Western states will meet 
at the time of the annual regional extension 
conference at Portland, Oregon, February 
28 to March 4. 

Summer Meetings of Home Demon- 
stration Agents and Farm People were 
held in several states during July and August. 
In Utah, 949 farm people camped on the 
campus of the Utah Agricultural College, 
August 2 to 5, for the purpose of consider- 
ing state problems in agriculture and home 
economics. Dr. Caroline Hedger led the 
work in the study of child care and feeding, 
and gave especial training to project leaders 
and extension workers. This is the second 
year that Dr. Hedger has attended the Utah 
annual meeting. After the encampment Dr. 
Hedger made a trip through the state on 
which she gave instructions to more than 9,000 
people. Child care and feeding is the part 
of the home economics extension program 
which is receiving greatest emphasis this 
year. Mrs. E. C. Salisbury of the Women's 
Section North and West, represented the 
States Relations Service on the program. 
Mrs. Rena B. Maycock, State Leader of 
Extension Work for Women, was in charge 
of the home economics program. 

In New Hampshire, farmers and home 
makers week was held at the State College, 
Durham, August 16 to 19. The following 
organizations cooperated in the conference: 
New Hampshire State Department of Agri- 
culture, New Hampshire Farm Bureau 
Federation, New Hampshire Federation of 
Women's Clubs (Home Economics Section), 
New Hampshire Parent-Teacher Association, 
New Hampshire State Board of Health, 
New Hampshire Horticultural Society, New 
Hampshire Poultry Growers' Association, 



New Hampshire Beekeepers' Association, 
New Hampshire Potato Growers' Associa- 
tion, Granite State Dairymen's Association, 
New Hampshire Veterinarians' Association, 
Federal Board for Vocational Education, 
County Farm Bureaus, Subordinate Granges. 
The sessions planned primarily for the 
homemakers incluaed health and home eco- 
nomics programs, on which were representa- 
tives from the public health and Red Cross 
Organizations from New Hampshire and 
New England, members of the faculty of 
the college, extension workers from other 
states, Dr. Emerson of Boston, Mrs. Ruby 
Green Smith, Associate State Leader of 
New York, and Mrs. Ruth Stevens Reed, 
Clothing Specialist of Massachusetts. As a 
result of this conference a committee, of 
which Miss Williamson, State Leader of 
Extension, is chairman, was appointed to 
carry out a state campaign against malnu- 
trition. The campaign is now under way. 
In Montana, the annual meeting of home 
demonstration agents was held in the Agri- 
cultural College at Bozeman, July 25 to 30. 
Dr. Caroline Hedger, for the second time, 
gave the Montana agents a series of lectures 
on child care and feeding. Mrs. Edith C. 
Salisbury represented the Women's Section, 
North and West, of the States Relations 
Service, and led round table discussions on 
extension organization problems. Recre- 
ation, photography, preparation of illustra- 
tive material, fair exhibits, home cheese 
making, club work, clothing projects, were 
considered in lecture, demonstration, and 
laboratory practice. 



Professor Isabel Bevier has been per- 
suaded to continue as a lecturer at the 
Southern Branch of the University of 
California, Los Angeles, during the first 
semester of this year. 

Emma Francis of Battle Creek Sanitarium 
has accepted the position as Assistant Pro- 
fessor of Chemical Agriculture in the Experi- 
ment Station at State College, Pa. 

Helen L. Green is organizing and 
equipping a Home Economics Department 
in the Polytechnic Institute, Auburn, 
Alabama. 



Vol. XIII, No. 12 December, 1921 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in nomemaliinjj, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mary de Garmo Bryan, Editor Keturao E. Baldwin, bustnea P.dnw 

Editorial Board 

Mrs. Mary II. Abf.l C. F. Langworthy Amy Daniels Katharine Fisut:! Grace G. Denny 

Associate Editors 
Day Monroe, News 

Edith Barber and Mrs. Hazzard, Social Welfare 
Florence \\ ard. Extension 

Katharine Ulunt and Sybil Woodruff, Foods and Nutrition 
Cora Winchell, Education 
Ruth O'Brien, Textiles 
Henrietta French, Institution Economics 
Alice Biester, Biblio^'raphy 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Th£ Place of the Nutrition Worker in the Health Program. . . . Bailey B. Burrilt 576 
Physical and Biological Chemistry in the Service of Home Economics 

Agnes Fay Morgan 586 
The HoMi: Project as a Method of Teaching Home Economics . . Trcva E. Kaufman 592 

Report of the Social Service Committee 596 

Retort of the Reg:on.al Organization Committee 599 

Fl-rther Data on Purchasing Habits Ethel L. Phelps 600 

Spruce Beer as an Antiscorbutic Viva B. Appleton 604 

For the Homem.vker 

Bobbins and Pins Agnes Devoe Milne 607 

Feeding our Cities Caroline B. Sherman 610 

Bacon's Experiment on Preserxing Meat with Cold 612 

Editorial 613 

The Open Forum 616 

The Question Box 618 

Books and Literature 619 

News from the Field 623 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HO\^*rO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by New York Draft, Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered lettei is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of charge in address should he sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to lake effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, .\1d. 

Teie Journal oy Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg & Co., Chicago; Hochschild, Kohn & Co., Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



JOURNAL OP HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 




In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol, Xni DECEMBER, 1921 No. 12 



THE PLACE OF THE NUTRITION WORKER IN THE HEALTH 

PROGRAM! 

BAILEY B. BURRITT 
General Director, New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor 

The New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, 
which is engaged very largely in carrying on public health activities, 
believes that the nutrition worker has a very real contribution to make 
in the health program. It is not a recent convert, either, in this matter, 
as evidenced by the fact that it employed the first visiting nutrition 
worker in New York City in 1907 and has had nutrition workers on its 
staff from that date to this, its Nutrition Division now consisting of 
nine workers. The longer it is engaged in health work the more it 
finds nutrition or, shall we say, defective nutrition playing an important 
part in disease and sickness, and the more emphasis it is forced to put 
upon good nutrition as a preventive force. 

Tuberculosis and nutrition. Tuberculosis is one of the major factors 
that we have to deal with in the health problem. We are told by the 
tuberculosis experts that presumably over 90 per cent of all of us are 
infected with tuberculosis. Our hope of preventing a breakdown 
through such infection lies, in part at least, in the possibility of 
keeping the body in good physical condition, in building up a resistance 
adequate to overcome the sHght doses of tuberculous infection that 
almost inevitably occur. We have appreciated all along, to some extent 
at any rate, that good nutrition plays a very important role in making 
this resistance adequate, but the war with its large amount of under- 

^ Presented at the Fourteenth Annual Meeting of The American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Swampscott, Mass., June, 1921. 

579 



580 THE jouiiNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

feeding has given new impetus to the importance which nutrition plays 
in the prevention of this disease. 

Nutritional defects among children. The A. I. C, P. is deaHng in an in- 
timate way with the health problems of a population of 35,000 people, 
chiefly Italians, in a congested area of New York City. It has, as a 
part of a systematic effort to deal with the health problems of the children 
of this area, examination clinics for the examination of presumably 
well children, that is, that group of children for which there is no 
provision for medical examinations in the average community. As 
a result of an examination of a large number of children, chiefly pre- 
school, we have found that, after defects of the nose and throat and 
teeth, defective nutrition ranked highest in the number of defects found. 
Thirty-eight per cent of these children were classified as having defective 
nutrition. This meant that they showed some or all of the following 
symptoms: subnormal weight for height and age, poor general mus- 
culature, the presence of subcutaneous fat, pale color, redness of mucous 
membranes. For these examinations the children were stripped, a fact 
which adds to the value of the diagnosis, since more adequate observation 
was possible. 

One might attack the health problem of this area until doomsday with- 
out scoring anything hke success unless one recognized that the health 
problem of this community is tied up with the family food habits. 
We are confronted with the nutritional problem in our health work in 
the diet of the mother before the birth of the child. We have it with us 
immediately after the birth of the child in the feeding of the young 
infant and its mother. We have been all too prone to think that we can 
ignore a child's diet after he is two years of age, but we are learning 
that we ignore it with disastrous results. Bad food habits have their 
origin here and are difficult to correct later on; but, what is still 
more serious, they are very likely to have left in their train impaired 
physical conditions with permanent results. 

Teeth and nutrition. Our examining physicians have dwelt at length 
on defective teeth and we are all of us conscious of the size of the prob- 
lem which we have to wrestle with in defective teeth. We no longer 
try to deal with tuberculosis and tuberculous famiHes seriously without 
attempting to put their teeth in some condition of repair as a necessary- 
factor in the success of our treatment. We are finding that we cannot 
deal most successfully with defective nutrition in children with decayed 
teeth and pus producing conditions in their mouths. We have still 
much to learn, especially we laymen, with regard to the relation between 



1921] THE NUTRITION WORKER IN TIIE HEALTH PROGRAM 581 

nutrition and tooth decay, but even the layman is able to discern that 
our most enthusiastic dental leaders — leaders in whom we have had a 
great deal of confidence — are abandoning their slogan that a clean tooth 
never decays, because there seems to be some evidence that tooth decay 
may have its origin in inadequate diet, or inadequate nutrition. We 
suspect that even the expert himself feels that there is a pitiful lack of 
accurate knowledge with regard to the relation between diet and tooth 
decay and we are encouraged by the fact that some steps are being taken, 
notably in Boston itself, and in other places perhaps to a less degree, 
to fill in this important gap of information. Meantime, there is no 
one, I think, who will deny that if we really want to prevent tooth decay 
we must work along nutrition Hnes as well as along lines of cleanliness 
and sanitation of the mouth. I sat one whole evening, recently, in a 
small group of dental experts who were considering the essentials of a 
dental prophylactic program and it seemed to be the consensus of opinion 
of this group that, if you could do but one thing in a given community 
looking toward the prevention of tooth decay, you had better begin 
with educating your community in the importance of diet and its relation 
to good teeth. 

Now, I have been concerned thus far in citing, more or less at random, 
facts which indicate the importance of the nutritional factor in the 
health program. Without being more precise and without going into 
greater refinements, I am sure that I shall have unanimous agreement with 
me in declaring that attention to nutritional problems must stand out 
prominently in any successful health program. To overlook such atten- 
tion is to overlook one of the essential factors. One may not be able 
to say that, given good nutrition, good health w^ll result, but one can 
at least say that without good nutrition good health is impossible. 

Ignorance of suitable diet the problem. Now, if we accept this state- 
ment of the situation, if we believe without reservation that we must 
perforce deal with nutrition in our health program, what are some of 
the ways to do something about it? In the first place, let me indicate 
that each added year of experience in dealing with health problems, 
among the group of the population in which the income range is lowest, 
convinces me the more that, even in the lower income range group, 
ignorance of suitable diet is a more important factor than inability to 
purchase suitable diet. Poor nutrition is obviously aggravated by 
inadequate income, but a ver>^ high percentage of our nutrition dis- 
turbances and defects can be remedied, I am convinced, by educational 
methods. I am a firm believer in good incomes as essential allies in 



582 THE jouiiNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

the public health field, because good incomes mean, as a rule, better 
housing conditions and, on the whole, better diet. It is much more 
apt to mean more adequate housing conditions than it does mean better 
diet, however, as a considerable degree of ignorance about suitable feeding 
in famiUes with better ranges of income is all too nearly universal. We 
must, therefore, continue to press for adequate incomes for workingmen 
as a means to good health and improved civic and economic usefulness. 
But let us not forget, while we are urging this, that at the present time 
lack of income is not as serious a factor in nutritional disturbances 
leading to ill-health as is ignorance of suitable diet. Education is a 
slow, difficult, and expensive process, but it is, nevertheless, much 
swifter, much easier and much less expensive than is the process of 
readjusting economical conditions. It is a much more hopeful line of 
immediate attack, and this advantage should, I believe, be pressed to 
the utmost. 

Schools the best medium for overcoming ignorance. But, how shall 
we educate? Obviously, the school should play a very important r61e 
in the educational process. If nutritional work does play the part 
that we think it does in the health and, therefore, the efficiency of the 
community, then we should not be content with the gains which we 
have already secured in the emphasis upon this problem in our public 
schools. A careful examination of the curricula of our colleges and 
universities would still, I beheve, yield very disappointing results, 
showing, as it would, such a large percentage of college graduates suc- 
cessfully completing their course without anything Hke adequate serious 
consideration of the problems of nutrition as they affect every day life. 
If education is a fitting for life, then is it not clear that we must include 
in it adequate information and adequate consideration of the problems 
of diet in their relation to common health and common eflSciency? It 
may even be that it is as important for students to know concretely 
what Sherman has said about the diet of a child as it is to know the law 
of the sine and the cosine, or as it is to have correct information as to 
the evidence distinguishing the paleozoic from the mesozoic period of 
geological history. Without, however, belittling at all the importance 
of mathematics or geological history in the college curriculum, I am 
willing to defend the thesis that the average college curriculum does 
not give the consideration to nutritional problems that their relation 
to life warrants. It ought not to be possible for students of colleges 
to go out from the institution without having dealt seriously with this 
practical problem. 



1921] THE NUTRITION WORKER IN THE HEALTH PROGRAM 583 

I speak of the college first, although I realize that the elementary school 
is of the greatest importance in our consideration, because of the fact 
that such large numbers of our people grow up to be citizens without 
getting further than the elementary school, but until we get adequate 
recognition of the importance of the nutritional factor in our college 
education, we shall not get it in our high school or secondary education, 
nor in our elementary education. We have made much progress, it is 
true, in the use which we have made of our elementary schools in the 
nutritional educational problem. A larger percentage of the children 
graduating from our schools each year are knowing at least something 
about the elements of food problems — what to eat, how to eat, how to 
prepare it. But we must rely on the special teacher of nutrition, the 
regular teacher, the medical examiner, and the school nurse to make at 
least the rudiments of this information universal. The next generation 
will be a healthier one because of the fact that this generation of school 
children has more knowledge of this kind than the preceding generation. 
But this process which has begun so well must be put ahead a notch each 
year for some years to come, if we are to realize the full advantages and 
possibilities of food education through the schools. 

Institutions other than schools important. This is the greatest educa- 
cational opportunity and this should have first emphasis. There is also 
a very definite place for the nutrition worker in the public health program 
in the assumption of the responsibility of guiding the nutritional work 
of hospitals, sanitoria, children's institutions. Boy Scout, Girl Scout 
and other camps, hotels and restaurants. There are now numerous 
workers in this field, but the opportunities in this work have not, in 
my judgment, been anything like fully reaHzed. The educational 
possibilities are very real and considerable, and the development of more 
workers in this field with still larger vision and capable of real leadership 
in thought and action will make these agencies contribute an ever in- 
creasing share in this process of overcoming nutrition ignorance. 

The function of the field worker. There are, however, other important 
supplementary means, of educating the public to the importance of 
nutritional factors in health problems, that should be pursued simul- 
taneously with our efforts to secure additional educational work through 
the medium of our schools and universities, and through our hospitals 
and other institutions. We are making rapid progress in this country 
in the direction of carrying health education into the homes, to reach 
the child of pre-school age, to reach parents, and to deal with many 
problems wliich the school as such cannot deal with. The number of 



584 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

voluntary health organizations is rapidly increasing. The total volume 
of work being done by voluntary health organizations is increasing in an 
even greater degree and the work that is undertaken by municipal, 
state, and national health authorities is increasing in a like manner. 
The field workers, whether it be in rural district, in small community, 
or in our larger cities, are increasing in numbers with great rapidity. 
They are being recognized as the hopeful medium of successfully carrying 
educational health work into the home in such a practical way that it 
affects the daily life and routine of the individual family and the members 
which make it up. The field worker may be a trained nurse, a practical 
nurse, a lay-visitor, a nutrition worker, a visiting school teacher, or 
some other kind of field worker. Obviously, here is at once an oppor- 
tunity and a responsibility for the nutrition worker. It is clearly our 
business to make the consciousness of the importance of this problem 
a part of the equipment of every field worker of whatever nature, and 
we should not be content with that; we must, in other words, follow up 
making them conscious of the problem by providing them with the 
necessary tools in the shape of the essential information which will 
make it possible for every field worker to be an active educational agent 
in the nutritional field. Wherever, therefore, there is any body of 
field workers, the nutrition worker should be recognized as an essential 
part of such a staff. If the staff is very limited, it may be that the nutri- 
tion worker per se will be necessarily confined to one competently trained 
supervisor. In this case, this nutritional supervisor would make it her 
business, by group talks, by daily contacts, and by intimate working 
with each field worker, to put each worker in possession of the necessary 
knowledge and methods which wall make it possible for her to be an 
effective instrument in nutritional education. This kind of counseling 
supervision would, of course, be supplementary to and not interfering 
in the slightest with the technical, professional supervision; that is to 
say, if the field workers are a group of nurses, for example, the supervising 
dietitian would act in the capacity of an expert counselor in training 
and supervising the staff in so far as their work should relate to nutritional 
problems. She would work in the closest degree of cooperation with 
the nursing supervisor herself and would be an able ally to the nursing 
supervisor, making her own work function more effectively. If, on the 
other hand, the staff of field workers is sufficiently large, it is more than 
probable that trained field workers who would give attention to nothing 
but nutritional problems would be advisable, especially if the field force, 
whatever it may be, is devoting itself to preventive health problems. 



1921] THE NUTRITION WORKER IN THE HEALTH PROGRAM 585 

This is exactly the case in the staff of the A. I. C. P. In one of the local 
pieces of work which this organization is doing, it has some twenty 
held workers. Six of these are trained dietitians. All of the staff are 
working on preventive health problems. An effort is made to make 
each field worker, be it the nurse, social worker, or dietitian, a medium 
of nutritional education in the individual home, and the nutritional 
supervisor works with this end in mind with the nursing supervisor. 
But some families and some individuals present special nutritional 
problems. The nutrition worker as such assumes full responsibility 
for these problems which require more intensive dealing with nutritional 
factors. In this way, we believe we have welded together into an inte- 
gral whole a field staff that is dealing effectively with preventive health 
problems, and we are perfectly certain that this combination of staff 
is more effective than would be a staff made up either of all nurses or of 
all dietitians. 

This, it would seem to me, offers the most hopeful suggestion for 
fixing the appropriate place of the nutrition worker in the public health 
program. The adaptation of this plan to varying conditions and varying 
circumstances in the public health field, wherever there is a staff of 
field workers, presents rich opportunities for dealing with the health 
problem in a well rounded way and in such a way that the nutritional 
aspects of it assume something like their relative importance. 

The physician'' s role. The physician, of course, should not be ignored 
in such situations. My remarks have assumed the physician as the 
corner stone of the health program, the function of the trained nutrition 
worker corresponding quite largely to that of the trained public health 
nurse. The physician is indispensable in examining children and deter- 
mining what children are deviating from the nutrition normal and in 
advising what is needed. The main task of getting over the actual 
educational problem in the home will obviously rest primarily, however, 
on the nutrition worker. 

Responsibility of the nutritional training school. It should be added, 
however, that the nutritional training schools themselves have not as 
yet been able to plan adequately to provide the public health field with 
workers fully trained for this kind of work. In the first place, it has 
not been possible for them to give anything like adequate field training 
of any kind to nutrition workers. In the second place, the cases are 
still more rare where a field training has been worked out in such a way 
that much attention is given to individual family problems as such. 
In other words, a nutrition worker for educational nutritional work in 



586 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

the individual home is not prepared for successful work no matter how 
thorough may be her theroretical training, even though that theoretical 
training include adequate consideration of individual family problems, 
until she has had some training and experience in wrestling with actual, 
practical field problems that go with visiting and working in the family 
of Mrs. O' Gorman and Mrs. DeLucia. This kind of training is all too 
relatively rare. It is absolutely essential for nutrition workers con- 
templating field work and would at the same time make the work of 
nutrition workers in public schools more effective. 

Summary. If, now, in conclusion, I were to sum up this brief paper, 
I should say that the nutritional factor is a large and essential factor in 
the public health program. It has not yet received the recognition, 
however, in practice, which its importance suggests. Its chief obstacle 
to overcome is ignorance and its function is, therefore, largely educa- 
tional. The school, including the elementary school, the secondary 
school, the college and the university, is or can be the most important 
instrument for overcoming universal ignorance; the hospital and special 
institution is another potential though not fully realized educational 
force, but the important supplementary agencies of public and voluntary 
health organizations must not be overlooked as serious factors in this 
situation. The nutrition worker should be an element in every staff 
of teachers or of field workers, and our training schools must see to it 
that more adequate provision is made for field training of nutrition 
workers with this in view. 



PHYSICAL AND BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY IN THE SERVICE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 

AGNES FAY MORGAN 
University of California 

Home Economics education, in its gradual emergence from the condi- 
tion of a dim social idea into an orderly body of apphed science and 
art, has passed through several uncertain stages when the whole struc- 
ture seemed toppling down to the trade school level. Whatever import- 
ance the trade school training may assume in certain phases of home 
economics education, it seems now to be assured that, in the higher 



1921] PHYSICAL AND BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY 587 

institutions, the university idea must prevail in the main, and that, 
as in agriculture, the foundation and all the superstructure of work 
along these lines must be chiefly the fundamental sciences and their 
applications. There need be no longer a question as to the adequacy of 
the latter without the former, in spite of the plausible and popular up- 
roar that demands practical applications instead of theory, from the 
first moment that science is approached. 

The scientific foundations of home economics. The fundamental sciences, 
in home economics as in many other fields, are physics and chemistry 
first, and next biology, unless indeed we go with the modem mechanists 
far enough to see in biology only a more complicated chemical dynam- 
ics. Home economics in all its phases deals with life and living: 
origin, nurture, preservation, and enjoyment. It must deal with things 
in so far as things are essential to human Ufe: food, clothing, shelter. 
It must deal with forces, in so far as forces touch human living: light 
in the house and street; heat as a product of the human body, or as a 
means of comfort in the house or in the preparation of food; electricity 
as it furnishes light and heat for these purposes, and power to save the 
labor of human hands; and, of course, chiefly the free energy of sub- 
stances as it controls the direction and extent of the reactions studied, 
and the production of other forms of energy. We are thus involved at 
once with the ideas and the materials of physics, chemistry, and bio- 
logy. Of these three di\dsions of the great body of science, we may 
make two combinations, both of them classed usually under the division 
of chemistry, which shall contain practically all the materials, theories, 
and more than anything the assumptions, which we need to build up that 
increasingly homogeneous collection of the scientific teachings contained 
in home economics. These two combinations are physical and biologi- 
cal chemistry. 

It may indeed be going too far at present to include all the foundations 
of the scientific aspect of home economics in these two dix-isions of chem- 
istry, but it is easy to foresee a day when this assiunption may be justi- 
fied. Those portions of the subject matter which are now classified under 
the headings physiology, biology, and bacteriology, are concerned prim- 
arily with the dynamic phases of those bodies of learning, and hence 
may readily be included in the physico-chemical field. For example, 
we are interested specifically in the physiology' which deals with secre- 
tion, digestion, absorption, excretion, and metabolism. But secretion, 
absorption, and digestion have resolved themselves into problems of 
colloids, osmiOtic pressure, surface tension, and catalysis. The action 



588 THE jounKAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

of enzymes is reduced to a question of mono- or poly-molecular speed of 
reaction, hydrogen ion concentration, chemical equilibrium, and mass 
action. Marshall, Henderson, and Loeb, in their recent work, make 
contributions to physical chemistry almost as much as to physiology. 

The study of metabohsm is of course the function of biological chem- 
istry, perhaps its most important if not its sole cause for being. In 
home economics we are concerned also primarily with the metabolism 
of man, and in particular with his metabolism in its relation to diet. 
The pathology of metabolism is quite as interesting to us as to the medi- 
cal men, for we are continually on the lookout for credible connections 
between the character of food and conditions of health or disease, or 
even of shades of well-being. A knowledge of the causes and cure of 
scurvy, beriberi, and pellagra are part of the mental equipment of every 
student of dietetics. The confused condition of the biological chemist's 
information on the metabohsm in rickets, osteomalacia, anemia, and 
gout is reflected in our tentative dietetic recommendations for the treat- 
ment of those diseases. 

There is beginning to be apparent to the home economics investigator, 
interested in dietetic therapy, a distinct field for research covering the 
questions of the effects of var^dng methods of food preparation upon 
ease of digestion, as well as upon certain of the metabolic disturbances. 
Sporadic evidences are accumulating that other diseases than those 
commonly ascribed to diet deficiencies may be amenable to dietetic 
treatment. The lately pubUshed work of Dr. Ralph Pemberton con- 
cerning the role of carbohydrate feeding in the causation of rheumatoid 
arthritis, if confirmed, may be cited as an example. Unfortunately, 
not many home economics departments in the universities are yet 
accustomed to cooperate with the medical schools and hospitals, so 
that the opportunity for the prosecution of work in this fascinating 
field is limited. 

With this variety of appHcation of biological chemistry may also 
be classed experimentation in the accurate feeding of infants. It may 
be difficult to say wherein lies the dividing line between the chemist 
of the home economics department, interested in metabohsm because 
she must recommend practical feeding measures, and the chemist of 
the physiology department or the research institute, interested in the 
same field because of the exalted curiosity of pure science, or the chemist 
of the medical school, who must be ready to manufacture therapeutics 
for his practicing brother. In the artificial feeding of infants, the diet 
speciahst finds a well-tilled field ready for the sowing of the seeds of 



1921] PHYSICAL AND BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY 589 

public education. In this, as in diabetes, is exemplified the meager 
development of the theme of quantitative feeding. She is now seizing 
upon the opportunity of applying those methods worked out by the 
biological chemists to the diagnosis of cases of disordered digestion and 
metabolism in infants, and to the alleviation of such conditions through 
change in feeding. It is her function, as a teacher, to reach the numerous 
borderline cases of this kind which are never reported to the physician. 
She may also occasionally be found capable of offering technical assis- 
tance to the practitioner in these matters. 

But it is in the field of the normal nutrition of growing children and 
adults that the home economics specialist and teacher finds the richest 
rewards for her study of biological and physical chemistry. The fas- 
cinating mysteries of the intermediary metabolism of the foodstuffs, 
the creatinine and creatin quandary, the sulfur and nitrogen partitions, 
are important questions in her mind, because their solution may affect the 
prevailing dicta as to feeding. Karl Thomas' and Hindhede's work, 
as well as the experiments by Osborne and Mendel, Folin, and McCol- 
lum, are most vital to home economics because their reconciled con- 
clusions may point the way to a rational protein proportion and vitamine 
content in the every-day meals of the people. Such applications of 
these and similar findings to the feeding of the nation, as suggested by 
Max Rubner in his paper before the International Hygiene Meeting 
in 1912, must make up the content of our home economics nutrition 
courses, if they are to fulfill their explicit social purpose. 

The results of calorimetry, direct and indirect, are based upon the 
physical and chemical principles expressed in the first and second laws 
of thermodynamics and the law of definite proportions. The determina- 
tion of the food expense of work, of the stimulating expense of food, 
called by Rubner the "specific dynamic eflFect, " of the energy yielding 
value of foods, are all dependent upon these same laws. The dieti- 
tian who must interpret these results in terms of the serving of every- 
day meals in the home and the institution cannot do so intelHgently 
unless she is familiar with these fundamental laws of physical chemistry. 
For rule of thumb applications are quite as unsatisfactory in the home 
economics world as in the medical profession, and of late perhaps no 
more common. 

A plea for researchin the home economics laboratory. The home econom- 
ics investigator should now begin to make her own particular contri- 
bution to this body of information collected under physical and biolog- 
ical chemistry, and connecting the food of man with his physical salva- 



590 THE JOURNAL OF HOiDE ECONOMICS [December 

tion. This contribution is partly a more extended application of well 
known facts to practical feeding, and partly original investigation of: 
(a) chemical and physical changes brought about in foods by variations 
in cooking processes, as well as (b) the more numerous digestion and 
metaiboUsm experiments concerned with the same changes. The defect 
in our calculations, due to the fact that practically all our data as to 
food composition applies only to raw foods, has been only partly reme- 
died by such work. 

Wherever this spirit of original contribution is making its modest 
beginnings, the principles and the methods of physical and biological 
chemistry are continually resorted to, as the means of attack. The 
ahgnment of four simple studies of this kind carried on by students at 
the University of CaUfomia may be used to illustrate this point. 

1. An investigation of the conditions which control the amount of 
absorption of fat by fried foods. In attempting the solution of this 
problem the technique of cookery was needed for the formation of a 
suitable constant dough for the doughnuts used as the specific fried 
food; the technique of quantitative analysis in the sampling and fat 
extraction of the raw and cooked material, and in the determination, 
before and after frying, of the physical and chemical constants of 
the four varieties of fats used. Some of this work has been pubhshed.^ 

2. The isolation and purification of certain proteins from a certain 
variety of CaHfomia almond. The procedure of the biological chemist, 
in this case chiefly that of Dr. T. B. Osborne, was imitated in the pre- 
liminary work of fat freeing, extraction, and precipitation. The ulti- 
mate aim of this study is the preparation of pure almond protein to 
be used in feeding experiments similar to the work of Cohnheim, Kauff- 
man, and Thomas. Some results have already been published.^ 

3. The relation between certain controlled conditions and time of 
roasting and the loss of nitrogenous extractives in beef. 

The relation between weight, surface, oven temperature, kind of 
pan, degree of cooking, and loss of total weight, of fat, and of nitro- 
genous extractives were determined by the use of the usual biochemical 
methods of analysis. The calibration of thermometers used, and de- 
termination of heat conduction by various metals are examples of the 
use of physical methods.^ 

» Morgan, A. F., and Cozens, E. R.: Jour. Home Econ., 11 (1919) pp. 394-402. 
» Morgan, A. F., and Heinz, A. M.: Jour. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 215-222. 
'Nelson, P. Mabel: Thesis, M. A., University of California, 1916. 



1921] PHYSICAL AND BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY 591 

4. The comparison of the Van Slyke-Bosworth titration method for 
the acidity of milk with the electrometric measurement of hydrogen 
ion concentration in milk. The progress of lactic acid production was 
measured by both methods every day in samples of milk kept at two 
different temperatures — ice-box temperature, 2 degrees C, and "cooler" 
temperature, 15 degrees C. In this case, physico-chemical methods 
were used exclusively. The titration of these samples with the hydro- 
gen electrode in the manner described by Professor J. H. Hildebrand* 
has shown some interesting phases of milk souring.^ 

Similar problems might be multiplied almost indefinitely. 

So dependent is the development of the food phase of home economics 
upon that of biological chemistry that it is frequently a matter of deli- 
cate adjustment to decide in which field a given subject or investigator 
may be said to belong. If it is possible to speak of an application of 
a science which is itself an application, then the human nutrition work 
in home economics is an apphcation of biological chemistry. It may 
be more academic to accord home economics food work the honor of 
constituting a single division of biochemistry, that is, the division Foods 
and Nutrition. The term nutrition alone apparently does not convey 
the entire content of this phase of home economics, for nutrition con- 
cerns itself solely with the food that has been ingested. Home economics 
is equally concerned with the processes undergone by that food in its 
culinary preparation. The army organization during the war recog-' 
nized the importance of this division by estabHshing a Food and Nu- 
trition Division of the Medical Department of the army. 

After all, the social purpose of home economics edlication is of vastly 
greater importance than its technical development. This new phase 
of education came into being in response to a social and economic need 
to which biological and physical chemistry can never minister. If 
we continue to see the departments of medicine train men in the tech- 
nical work of nutrition and metaboKsm, as well as make the therapeutic 
and hygienic applications of their results, the scientific development of 
those subjects will continue to progress favorably. But the widespread 
and continuous use of these dicta among the people can be brought 
about only by the persevering and universal training of young women. 
In the universities we must develop critical and penetrating thoroughness 
in the leaders of this movement by means of the technical work of physi- 
cal and biological chemistry appHed to feeding problems. 

♦ Hildebrand, J. H.: Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 35 (1913), pp. 847-871. 
•Mills, Margaret H.: Thesis, M. A., University of California, 1916. 



592 THE jotTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

THE HOME PROJECT AS A METHOD OF TEACHING HOME 

ECONOMICS 

TREVA E. KAUFFMAN 
Supervisor of Home Economics, Stale of New York 

The Home Project as applied to Home Economics Education may be 
defined as a piece of work to be done outside of school hours directly- 
related to the subject matter of the course of which it forms a part. 
This piece of work should embody many of the principles of the subject 
taught, should present a genuine need to the student, or a problem to 
be solved, should involve a specific plan of procedure, should include a 
report of details, and should be supervised. It may be further defined 
in the terms of: (A) Objective, which is the contact of the student with 
home problems under conditions as nearly normal as possible, for the 
purpose of supplementing the school's instruction. (B) The place, the 
student's own home (preferred), or other homes, or places approximating 
home conditions. (C) Characteristics such as: 1. Genuine need, apparent 
to the student. 2. Student's preparation for attacking the problem. 
3. The problem to be solved should have the following educational 
values: (a) standards of manipulation, (b) initiative, (c) managerial 
ability, (d) results which can be evaluated. 

From this explanation and results attained so far by the use of this 
method, the advantages may be stated as follows: First, it presents 
a most ideal way in which to teach home economics if we desire to 
have our teaching function immediately, and bring about worth 
while results; second, it furnishes a splendid way in which to teach the 
profession and vocation of homemaking (if that is our desired result); 
third, it brings about a definite appreciation of the subject both to the 
teacher and student; fourth, it permits the use of the real equipment, 
"the home," in place of our more or less artificial laboratories at school; 
fifth, it brings the teacher in contact with the problems of the homes in 
the community and then she may plan her course according to the needs 
she finds; sixth, it offers the opportunity for closer cooperation between 
school instruction and real life problems in the home and community. 

From the educational standpoint, the home project method meets 
the most important work of education, which, we are told by several 
educators, is "the deliberate forming of useful habits." 

It seems that many home economics teachers have been trying for 
a number of years to bring about such results as this method has 



192 Ij THE HOME PROJECT 593 

accomplished. Then why, as teachers, should we not investigate the 
method, and at least test it out if at all possible in our schools? 

The principles involved in a home project, as I see it, are simple and 
.workable. First, the project may grow out of the instruction given 
at school, or parallel it, or the instruction may grow out of the project. 
The latter has not been used to such a large extent as the former. 
Second, the place for the home project is the student's own home. 
If this is not possible other homes may be used, or places approximating 
home conditions, such as a hospital, school lunch room, day nursery. 
Third, the amount of time required for a home project depends largely 
on the character of the project to be solved. A number of states have 
agreed that an average of three hours a week extending over three to 
six months, or the entire school year, or the use of summer months alone 
may be used. Of course this does not mean that one project would be 
continued over this time unless it was one of extensive solution, but 
a number may be solved. If the summer months are used, it involves 
a twelve-month teacher; this has many advantages to the community. 

In solving the project, it is realized that time means practically 
nothing; it is the interest of the pupil in the solving of real life problems, 
by the pupil, that counts. However, to evaluate results and reach 
standards, some time requirement must be adhered to. This time 
requirement should never be imparted to the pupils, for it has been found 
in many cases that time is the only thing for which the pupils work. 
The approach to a home project is possibly the most vital part of it. 
In order that the project may count in the life of the pupil it must be 
one of interest to the pupil. Therefore, the teacher must be intimately 
acquainted with her and must know the home and home duties of the 
pupil. In order that the pupil may develop initiative and solve the 
problem, she must be properly supervised by the teacher through 
home visits; therefore the teacher must be admitted to the home. 

The first approach, that of being intimately acquainted with the 
pupil, will come about through the work in school. The second and 
third, that of knowing home conditions and entering the home, wiU 
probably be more difficult to accomplish. The teacher should make 
a survey of the homes in the community, no matter whether the home 
project method is used or not. This will enable her to build her course 
accordingly. By giving a tea or party, especially inviting the mothers 
of the pupils, and at this time talking over the home project, she can 
thereby familiarize the mothers with it; this will then give the teacher 
an opportunity to call in the homes of the girls, and further her knowl- 
edge of the home conditions and of the problems in that community. 



594 THE joiiRXAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Mothers' meetings or dubs may be used for this approach in the 
home, or a luncheon or supper served by pupils to different groups of 
mothers may be used. After this approach has been successfully made 
by the teacher, there wdll be practically no difficulty in making a selec- 
tion of the project rightly fitted to the pupil. 

A conference with each pupil should be held and a project selected 
with all the above points in mind. The purpose or aim, scope, plan for 
procedure, and tentative results should all be talked over with the pupils. 
An outline carefully evolved by pupil and teacher should be drawn up 
for the use of both. The teacher should watch carefully, so that the 
pupils will not depend too much on the outline worked out in the begin- 
ning. It should be enlarged and worked over, as the proiect progresses. 

In order that the pupil may successfully solve the problems and pro- 
gress, the project must be carefully supervised. This supervision 
may be done through home visits, conferences, reports weekly and final, 
and social gatherings at school and in the homes of pupils. The amount 
of supervision given by the above methods depends on the type of pro- 
jects, the progress of the pupil, home conditions, and number of pupils 
working on projects. 

Some states have found it best to have a weekly conference and report 
from the pupil, and a home visit once a month. Too much stress 
should not be laid on reports, but some system is necessary to care- 
fully evaluate results. The number of projects one teacher can 
successfully supervise is still a debated question. Some states have 
found that one teacher can supervise a maximum of 40, others a maxi- 
mum of 15. 

The question of credit for home project work has not been so clearly 
solved as some other problems connected with it. Most teachers 
who have worked on this problem feel that some credit in addition to 
the school work should be given for the project. However, this 
additional credit should be added to the credit given for school instruc- 
tion and should not be recognized as a separate count. 

The types of home projects to be carried out by the pupils should be 
real home problems and may be classified as simple and complex. If 
the instruction given is that of a well rounded out course in homemaking, 
as it should be, whether of grade, high school, or college rank, the student 
should then work out projects in all phases of homemaking. 

The age and the student's preparation for attacking the project must 
be considered. 



1921] THE HOME PROJECT 595 

A project may be simple or complex to a given pupil according to 
her background of experience. A simple project may be the prepara- 
tion of some part of the meal, as the vegetables and fruit, or salads, 
desserts, meat, or potatoes, or a simple breakfast or a simple supper, 
studied from the family needs as to nutrition, cost, and efficient use of 
time. The preparation and planning of a dinner or three meals a day 
meeting the family's needs, redecorating and furnishing a room, 
or keeping the family accounts would be a complex project. The care 
and repair of the girl's own wardrobe may be a simple project; while 
the care and repair of the family clothing, or household linens, would 
be a complex project. 

The teacher must be the judge as to when the project is finished, and 
whether the pupil has successfully solved or worked out the project. 

Time, mere working, reporting, have very little to do with the real 
solving of the life problems in the end, and, as always, it depends on the 
teacher to successfully use this method. 

I am afraid some are asking, "How can we as teachers of home econom- 
ics in grades and high schools use this method, with our present organiza- 
tion which consists of a heavy teaching schedule practically all day, and 
the handling of as many as 100 or 200 pupils a week?" The answer is, 
of course, that the method can not be used under such conditions. Is 
it a wiser procedure to have more and better trained teachers, so that 
we may use this method to gain our desired results, than to continue 
with our present plan of reaching large numbers of pupils, giving some 
meager knowledge of some phase of home economics, and hoping that 
at some future day they will have an opportunity to receive more 
training? It is realized that it will take many years to bring into general 
use such a method, but I believe the method should be used now in 
many small schools, and may be used to some extent in some of the 
larger junior high schools. 

It is the plan in many of our large junior high schools to give as many 
phases of home economics as possible each year in the alloted time. 
Each phase of the subject is taught by a special teacher. This plan 
is excellent, for no matter when a girl may drop out of school she has 
had some training in the all-around ideas, and not alone in one or two 
phases of the subject. In order to draw together all these various 
phases, and give them their proper use and relationship in the home, 
the home project method may be used in the ninth year. In many of 
these schools the equipment merely consists of foods and clothing 
laboratories; the home project would give us a natural setting for such 



596 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

teaching. I also believe the home project could be used to an advan- 
tage, when amount of time given to home economics is reduced to 
such a minimum in school that only the fundamentals may be taught, 
with no time for practical work. Of course it would be necessary to 
have well trained teachers in charge of such work, teachers who have 
a vision of the entire subject. 



REPORT OF THE SOCIAL SERVICE COMMITTEE 

This report, organized from material presented by the Social Service 
Committee at the Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association at Swampscott, is submitted by Lucy Gillett, Chairman, as 
follows : 

We already feel the need of special training for those who are going into Social Service 
work, but the work is as yet too new for the ideal training to have been evolved. The Social 
Servace Committee felt that, during this formative period, those who are in the field might 
help to shape this ideal by telling where they have felt the need of more training to make 
them better fitted for their various duties. With this in mind, the Committee wTote to 
those who are known to them to be doing nutrition work in the social field, and have sum- 
marized the replies. 

Invariably the answers have indicated the need of one of three, or a combination of the 
three following points: (1) Special methods which should show how to explain the appli- 
cation of scientific facts in a practical way to those less fortunate in educational oppor- 
tunities; (2) a social point of view, or a better understanding of conditions in homes where 
the economic factor is very keenly felt, and a knowledge of the customs of various nation- 
alities; (3) a better understanding of the underlying factors of defective nutrition and other 
diet diseases. The following summary of repUes received from people in various parts of 
the country serves to illustrate these three points. 

Reply after reply bears out the thought that social service work has a big problem in 
convincing and educating the untrained mind. One person writes: "The problem that 
has given me most trouble is how to get the parents to realize the seriousness of the under- 
nourished child and to take necessary steps to correct conditions. Mothers persist in say- 
ing, 'Johnnie won't never be big and strong and no food will do it for he takes his small 
stature and peeked looks from uncle Bill.' 'I have always lived this way and I am strong 
and I guess it will be all right for Harry.' 'Tony won't eat oatmeal. You don't like it, 
do you, dear?' " This writer says that, although she is grieved at the ignorance of the mothers 
she is still more surprised to find how hard it is to make mothers conscious of the importance 
of well-known facts, and how difficult it is to get them to follow instructions. All those 
who have been working with these unfortunate women realize that the method used is quite 
different from that employed in teaching students. The student has been taught to follow 
instructions or to suffer immediate consequences; many years may elapse before the woman 
in the home will feel the ill-effects of neglecting the advice and council given. The student 
in the class has been trained to analyze a situation or to accept established facts and to 



1921] REPORT OF SOCIAL SERVICE COMMITTEE 597 

follow authentic rules; the woman in the home has been trained chiefly by tradition and 
experience. It is not only a process of educating alone, it is a proldcm of reconstructing 
long established habits. 

Since child discipline is one of the most serious factors in malnutrition, social service 
problems involve an elementary knowledge of child discipline. The problem is complicated 
by the indirect method which must be frequently used. While nutrition work may be 
done through the mother or child directly, more often results must be accomplished in- 
directly through the mother, father, brother, or sister, or some friend or relative. It has 
been necessary to work out methods appropriate for the problem, and there is little doubt 
but that training in method for those going into the work would keep many from discourage- 
ment, make the work more effective, and save the work and themselves from much unfavor- 
able comment. This would advance the work, and increase the health and efficiency of the 
community more rapidly. 

Further reports, on the method of work and success in getting facts over, state that many 
cooking processes, as taught in our training schools, are too long and require too many utensils 
for practical use in homes where there are six or eight children, few utensils, less money with 
which to bu}^ more, and only one pair of hands to do the work. Methods for the serving 
of meals have been found to be too complicated and lengthy for tliis same type of woman. 

We often hear and are forced to acknowledge that a practical housekeeper may ^'^t better 
immediate results than a person well trained in theory but with no experience in social 
work. The methods of the practical woman are suited to conditions. There is a general 
feeling that the workers from the majority of our home economics courses throughout the 
country have not had enough training in the preparation and plaiming of inexpensive meals. 
Although the nutrition social worker realizes the need of giving in our training schools such 
methods as will fit the average, she wishes it were possible to teach the girls how to modify 
the average to fit the conditions below the average. The general plea is for more simplicity 
even for the average home, with a practical experience in putting theory into its simplified 
form; not less theory, but a more practical theory. 

Another letter says: "All that pertains to the preparation of food is vital in the building 
up of family efficiency. To have proper food it must be cooked. To be cooked, the stove 
must be in proper shape. Stoves at best in many of the homes are poor but the worker 
should know how to make the best use of a poor article. One day one of our workers explained 
that ;Mrs. H's stove was 'no good' as she could not heat the oven. All that was needed 
was regulating drafts and dampers, but constant use of gas and electricity at school had not 
given this worker the proper background for meeting the situation. She lost influence 
with the family as well as with her co-workers." The families with whom social workers 
come in contact have not had and \\-ill not have for some time to come all appliances that 
indicate progress. 

Those who have had experience in social work feel that home economics people going 
into families need training in case work. With this point of view there comes a definite 
conception of conditions and problems that are to be met. The most successful worker 
is the one who has the attitude of getting from a family as much as she gives, but tliis is a 
rare gift. It may often be acquired through training. Social service problems would become 
less difficult and more quickly remedied by introducing courses into the curricula of colleges 
and universities, whereby home economics students might work among people of verj^ low 
incomes and where low standards exist. "There should be a course including a study of 
family Hfe among wage earners. Budgets based on actual facts should be worked out for 
families on the border line of dependence. Those in the field reidize very keenly how much 
harm may be done through a lack of understanding of home conditions." As one letter 
says, "Often a worker does more harm than good by antagonizing the family through a 
disregard of their personal and religious scruples, without even being aware of it, or through 
lack of appreciation of the difficulties under which the family is living or of their struggles 



598 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

to exist. Those going into social service work should have some knowledge of racial habits 
and religious customs as well as food habits." To try to teach a Jewish family to use milk 
and meat in the same meal, or to cook them in the same dish is sure to meet with failure. 
Equally sure to meet with failure is the person who does not see the economic problem. 
One worker, who was sent to help a poor Italian woman to feed the undernourished children, 
began by saying genially, "I am going to tell you the secret of making use of your surplus 
cream." Whereupon the little girl, who was acting as interpreter, grabbed her mother by 
the hand and said, "My God, this ain't no place for us. She must think we are Asterbilts." 

The following extract from one letter e.xpresses the sentiment of them all: "It is 
most essential that the student have experience in field work to bring her into direct 
contact with the home in order to get a more comprehensive idea of what the needs of pupils 
are, thus enabling her to give in classes what will carry over into homes. I feel that a social 
service dietitian should have from three to six months of field work before graduation. Those 
in the field as they look back feel the disadvantage of inexperience. Both for the sake of 
the family and the worker they strongly urge the introduction into college and university 
curriculum such courses as will enable those going into field work in nutrition to know how 
to adjust the subject to families of varying incomes and nationalities." 

The beginner often looks at nutrition in a narrow sense as confined to food alone. When 
a worker gets into the field she finds she can no longer deal with food without other health 
habits. In order to give food a chance to do its maximum amount of work there must be a 
proper amount of sleep, rest, exercise, fresh air and sunhght, and the work of the nutrition 
worker is not complete without proper emphasis on the estabUshment of such habits as will 
Insure these. A neglect of this consideration is brought out in this letter from the super- 
visor of nutrition work in one of the social organizations, who writes: "Home ecomomics 
students come to us with insufficient instruction in personal hygiene, or if they have had 
the instruction they frequently fail to coordinate it with nutrition. From our point of 
view, a knowiedge and an application of personal hygiene is just as necessary as a proper 
knowledge of food." 

"Oh, if I only knew about the malnourished child and how to treat him," is another 
cry. "We are mighty glad to have studied so carefully the normal diet because we feel that 
this is fundamental, but we must know more about the child that needs special attention. 
At first I felt that my knowledge and judgment were self-sufficient in dealing with diet in all 
cases, but gradually I learned by experience, accompanied too frequently with disaster, 
that I must work hand in hand with the doctor. There are too many abnormal conditions, 
in which factors other than diet must be considered, to risk working without the constant 
advice of a physician. The nutrition worker should have a better understanding of symptoms 
of abnormal conditions and more practice in working in cooperation with the doctor." 

Another worker has felt the keen need of working not only in cooperation with the doctor 
but with every other person interested in the family. In one instance there were three people 
visiting one family, all giving different suggestions. By getting in contact with the other 
two people they saw that the nutrition w-orker could do for the time being all that needed 
to be done, and so the problem was left in her hands. In some cases, it is found that the 
work can better be accomplished by one of the other visitors in the family, and the nutrition 
worker withdraws. Cooperation is essential in anj' event, and it is very important to under- 
stand the place of the nutrition worker in the public health field. 

Another very important point too often overlooked is experience in record keeping. 
This helps to analyze results. The nutrition work of today needs facts to present as argu- 
ments for the furtherance of the work. Much good work is done without being appreciated 
because nobody knows about it and nobody knows about it because it is not presented in the 
right way. If the good work that is bemg done could be analyzed and presented in a telling 
way, the importance of the work would be more rapidly appreciated. May there be more 
practice in the keeping of records and the studying of results! 



1921] REPORT OF REGIONAL ORGANIZATION COMMITTEE 599 

We arc all feeling the need of better teaching methods for the untrained minds; for a 
better understanding of home and racial conditions; and for more experience in working 
with the physician and in dealing with the malnutrition problem. We are looking forward 
to the time in the very near future when those coming into the field will not have to go through 
some of our experiences but will come prepared to do the most effective kind of work from 
the start. 



REPORT OF THE REGIONAL ORGANIZATION COMMITTEE 

This report was submitted at the business session of the Annual 
Meeting, at Swampscott, by Mildred Weigley, Chairman, as follows: 

The Regional Organization Committee has endeavored to push the idea of state organ- 
izations, with national affiliation, through the members of its committee who are each carry- 
ing responsibility for a region. The results of this work up to the lime of the report show 
a constantly increasing interest on the part of practically all the states and a keen desire on 
the part of some to make the state organizations with their national afSliation a means 
of increasing state home economics interests and at the same time promoting a strong, 
unified national organization. 

Up to the time included in this report (June 15, 1921) the organization work has pro- 
ceeded as indicated by the folloAnng summary: 

1. Number of regions: Six — Eastern, Southern, Central, West Central, Pacific, Canadian. 

2. Number of states having completed afEliation: Two — Minnesota, Montana. 

3. Number of states ready to complete this affiliation: Three' — North Carolina, Texas, 
and the New England States. 

4. Number of states which have asked and received affiliation blanks other than those 
listed under 2 and 3: Four — Alabama, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oklahoma. 

5. Number of states which have sent in a five dollar affiliation fee (old basis): Two — 
Arizona, Utah. 

6. The following states are either in the midst of deciding the question of affiliation 
or will bring up the matter at a definite time indicated to the committee: 

Eastern Region — New York. 

Southern Region — Florida, Alabama, Tennessee, IMississippi. 
Central Region — Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Ohio, Missouri, Wisconsin. 
West Central Region — Kansas, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota. 
Pacific Region — Arizona, California, Oregon, Utah, Washington. 
It is anticipated that the months of October and November will see a large number of 
states with their state organizations completed. 



600 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

FURTHER DATA ON PURCHASING HABITS^ 

ETHEL L. PHELPS 
Dbisjon of Home Economics, University of Minnesota 

The survey of purchasing habits constitutes one phase of the work 
started nearly two years ago by the Standardization Committee. Data 
were collected by means of questionnaires, and a report of the findings 
for one part of the investigation, service dresses, was made at the last 
annual meeting of the Association.^ The present report gives further 
data concerning purchasing habits, and presents a summary of the 
material included in the five other sections of the questionnaires, which 
were not discussed in the earlier report. The committee endeavored 
to obtain as many of the original questionnaires as possible, and is in- 
debted to the Home Economics Departm.ents of the following institutions 
for securing the material used in this report : the University of California, 
the University of Nebraska, the Utah Agricultural College, the Michigan 
Agricultural College, Cornell University, and the University of Minne- 
sota. The data presented Vv^ere compiled from 545 questionnaires in 
the cases of underskirts and underwear, from 573 questionnaires in the 
cases of coat linings and dress foundations, and from 467 questionnaires 
in the case of children's dresses. In as much as all of the questionnaires 
returned did not contain data on all of the items listed, the following 
groups, mentioned less than 100 times, have been omitted: fabrics used for 
infant's gannents, wool and union materials for children's dresses, 
union materials for dress foundations and underwear other than knitted, 
and cotton and union materials for coat linings. 

Over half of the questionnaires returned were from home-makers, 
about one-half came from teachers, and most of the remainder were 
turned in by college students. 

Followdng is a simimary of the miaterials purchased, by the yard and 
ready-to-wear, by these groups of people for each of the five types of 
gam^.ents in question — underskirts, underwear other than knitted, coat 
linings, dress foundations or linings, and children's dresses. 

1. Underskirts. Ten different silk fabrics are listed as having been 
used for this purpose, but only three fabrics are of marked imiportance. 
Jersey, taffeta, and satin (including messaline) hav3 been used for more 

1 Presented at the meeting of the Textile Section of the American Home Economics 
Association, Swampscott, June, 1921. 

2 Phelps, E. L.: A Study of Clothing Purchasing Habits, Jour, of 11. E., Vol. XII. 
pp. 491-495. 



1921] FURTHER DATA ON PITRCHASING HABITS 601 

than nine-tenths of the 323 underskirts mentioned, the remaining 
one-tenth being made from seven other fabrics. Most of the jersey 
skirts were purchased ready-to-wear, less than one-tenth being purchased 
by the yard. Similarly taffeta was about four times more popular as a 
material for ready-made skirts when compared with materials bought 
by the yard, while satin was more commonly used by the yard. 

A little less than half of 375 cotton skirts were made of sateen, although 
21 cotton materials are named for that purpose. Muslin and cambric 
were used for about one-fourth, with mushn predominating. Four 
other commonly used materials are longcloth,percaline (including heath- 
erbloom), gingham, and nainsook. The noticeable difference in 
choice of material when purchased by the yard or ready-to-wear is 
that cambric is much more commonly used by the yard, while percaline 
is more commonly purchased ready-to-wear. 

2. Underwear {other than krtitted). 481 undergarments made of 13 
different cotton materials are reported. About 85 per cent of these 
garments were made of nainsook, longcloth, and musHn, six of the 13 
materials being used for 95 per cent of the garments. About the same 
relative importance has been given these six fabrics when purchased 
both by the yard and ready-to-wear, with one exception in the case of 
crepe, which has been nearly four times more popular by the yard than 
ready-made. 

Only 132 cases of silk underwear were cited, seven fabrics being used. 
A little over half of these garments were made of crepe de chine, satin 
and jersey being somewhat less important, and all of the latter being 
purchased ready-to-wear. 

3. Coat linings. Silk coat linings are much more popular than those 
of cotton or of mixed fibers, as evidenced by 257 cases of the former as 
compared with 85 of the latter two. Four of the nine silk materials 
listed — satin, pussy willow, taffeta, and foulard — are the most commonly 
chosen, satin being used in about two-thirds of the cases. All four retain 
about the same relative position whether purchased ready-to-wear or 
by the yard. 

4. Dress foundations or linings. Three out of eleven silk materials 
constitute 94 per cent of the 139 silk dress foundations reported, china 
silk alone being used for nearly three-fourths. The other two fabrics 
are satin and taffeta, the popularity of satin being most marked when 
used by the yard. 

A larger number of cotton materials are commonly utilized for dress 
foundations than is noted above for silk, six fabrics being used for about 



602 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

90 per cent of the 168 cases reported, although 13 materials are named. 
Of these, net was used for nearly half, and lawn for a little less than 
one-fourth of the cases. The other four of the six materials mentioned 
are sateen, cambric, muslin, and voile. 

5. CJiildren's dresses. Cotton materials were the most abundantly 
reported fabrics for children's dresses. Twenty-two materials were 
named, but again four of them, gingham, percale, voile, and Devonshire 
cloth, were used for almost three-fourths of 205 garments, gingham alone 
being used for nearly one-half of the total number of cases. Most of 
the materials for this purpose are apparently bought by the yard, inas- 
much as only 40 of the 205 cases were reported as being purchased 
ready-to-wear. 

The following observations, based on these data, are in general 
comparable with the findings for service dresses. 

All types of materials are not of equal importance for the types of 
garments studied. Silk is almost as popular a type of materiah for 
underskirts as is cotton. Cotton is very markedly preferred for 
undergarments when compared with silk. Silk as a material for coat 
linings is about three times as popular as cotton. Cotton is used 
more frequently for dress linings than is silk. For children's dresses, 
cotton is the only fabric reported a sufficient number of times to be 
included here. Climate, occupation, and income are doubtless factors 
which influence these choices. In general a relatively large number of 
fabrics are named in each class studied, but the major part of the 
garments are made of only a few different materials. As in the case 
of service dresses, no information is available concerning either retail 
or wholesale sales of fabrics for these uses, or the effect of the prevail- 
ing style on the selection of materials, while very few trademarked 
fabrics were named. No observations could be made concerning the 
actual effect of differences in climate, occupation, or income, or con- 
cerning the cause underlying the selections herein recorded. 

Summarizing the whole survey of purchasing habits, it will be seen 
that a few fabrics in each group or class of materials, i.e., wool, silk, 
and cotton, are of outstanding importance. For this final summary, 
all results were combined, omitting only those items previously noted 
where less than 100 returns were made. The following information is 
obtained as a result. 

Wool fabrics (service dresses), 34 materials, 1144 cases. 

Silk fabrics (service dresses, underskirts, underwear, coat linings, 
dress foundations), 34 materials, 1612 cases. 



1921] 



FURTHER DATA ON PURCHASING HABITS 



603 



Cotton fabrics (underskirts, underwear, dress foundations, children's 
dresses), 36 materials, 1229 cases. 

Seven, eleven, and fourteen of these three groups of materials, re- 
spectively, are used for approximately 94 per cent of the garments reported 
for each group. These materials are hsted below in the order of their 
popularity, as indicated by their percentage use. 

Summary of survey of purchasing habits. Materials consliluting approximately 94 per cent 

of garments reported for uses named above, combining all groups of at least 100 cases. 

Materials listed in order of popularity as indicated by percentage use 



WOOL FABRICS 


SILK FABRICS 


COTTON FABRICS 


per cent 

Serge 55.0 

Tricotine 11.0 

Jersey 10.0 

Poplin 5.0 

Broadcloth 5.0 

Gabardine 4.0 

Valour ... 4 


per cent 

Satin* 28.0 

Taffeta 22.0 

Jersey 9.0 

Crepe de chine 9.0 

China silk 6.5 

Georgette 5.5 

Pussy willow 5.0 


per cent 

Nainsook 15.0 

Sateen 14.0 

Longcloth 12.0 

Muslin 11.0 

Cambric 10.0 

Gingham 9.0 

Net 7.0 




Tricolette 2.5 

Poplin 2.5 

Velvet 2.0 

Foulard 2.0 


Lawn 4.0 

Percalinet 2.0 

Voile 2.0 

Crepe 2.0 

Batiste 2.0 

Percale 2.0 

Devonshire cloth 1.5 


Totals 94.0 


94.0 


93.5 



* Satin including messaline. 

t Percaline including heatherbloom. 

As evidenced by this survey, these thirty-two materials, in the order 
named, are worthy of consideration for standardization. 



604 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

SPRUCE BEER AS AN ANTISCORBUTIC 

VIVIA B. APPLETON 

In an article on "Diet in Labrador, " in the May number of the Jour- 
nal, the author calls attention to the use of spruce beer as a beverage 
and a spruce decoction as a "spring tonic" in Labrador. This custom 
suggests the value of spruce as an antiscorbutic, since, in this region, 
the diet is so restricted that deficiency diseases, beri beri and scurvy, 
occur every spring. It is an old remedy which has fallen into disuse, 
rather than a new one. 

Jacques Cartier was the first to describe the use of spruce as an anti- 
scorbutic. (Hakluyfs Collections of Voyages, Vol. Ill, page 262). 
On his second voyage of discovery in Canada, Cartier wintered near 
an Indian village, Stavacona, in Quebec. Both the Indians and his 
crew were afflicted with scurvy. Between December and the middle of 
March, 25 men from his crew died, and the rest were so sick that re- 
covery was despaired of except for three or four. The middle of March, 
Cartier noticed an Indian whole and sound, who had been very ill with 
scurvy ten or twelve days earlier. He asked the Indian how he had 
healed himseh, and was told that he had taken the juice and sap of 
the leaves of a certain tree called "Ameda." At Cartier's request, 
the Indian had branches brought, and showed how the bark and leaves 
should be boiled together, and the resulting decoction taken every other 
day. So successful was the remedy that all Cartier's crew were speedily 
completely cured, and the narrator goes on to say, "It wrought so well, 
that if all the physicians of MontpeHer and Louaine had been there, 
with all the drugs of Alexandria, they would not have done as much 
in one yere as that tree did in sixe days, for it did so preuaile, that as 
many as used it, by the grace of God recouered their health." He 
goes on to explain that the "Ameda" is thought to be the Sassfras tree, 
but this incident occurred the middle of March at a season when "our 
captaine" was walking from his boat to the shore upon the ice, at the 
time he saw the Indian who had been healed, so the "Ameda" could 
not have been a deciduous tree. Lind beheved it to be the American 
spruce. 

Although this spruce decoction was an Indian remedy, scurvy appears 
to have been a rare disease among the Indians. Benjamin Rush (Medi- 
cal Inquiries and Observations, Phila. 1805, Vol. I) says that he could 
not find that Indians were ever subject to scurvy, and describes their 
diet as "of a mixed nature, being partly animal and partly vegetable." 



1921] SPRUCE BEER AS AN ANTISCORBUTIC 605 

Matthews (Ethnography and Philology of Hydasta Indians, Wash. 
D. C, 1877, page 25) also refers to the fact that Indians were not sub- 
ject to scurvy. The tribes in the North, however, must have found 
greater difhculty in securing a mixed diet, and sometimes suffered from 
scurvy, and so had found a remedy. 

Budd (Tweedie's System of Pract. Med., Phila., 1841, Vol. V. 99-151), 
relates that the early northern colonists in America were greatly afflicted 
with scurvy, and often considered abandoning their settlements, because 
of the mortaHty caused by this disease, in winter. He states, however, 
that as early as the middle of the 18th century "the persons employed 
in our factories at Hudson Bay enjoyed extraordinary health and were 
entirely exempt from Scurvy, a circumstance which has been ascribed 
to the use of Spruce Beer which they had adopted as a common beverage." 

Whether the use of spruce beer in Europe was adopted from this 
American custom or was an original discovery, is not certain. Lind, 
quoted by Hess in his book on scurvy, and by Budd, describes the pre- 
paration of an antiscorbutic decoction of fir tops, and attributes its 
use to the advice of Erbenius, the king's physician during the Swedish- 
Russian war in 1708-9, when it was found by the Swedes to be effica- 
cious in the treatment and prevention of scurvy. Lind was also fami- 
liar with Cartier's decoction of bark and leaves of the "Ameda" tree. 
Lind is quoted by Budd in describing two squadrons, fitted out by the 
court of Russia and obHged to winter in Siberia in 1736, when each 
independently discovered by chance that the mountain pine had a most 
surprising antiscorbutic virtue. 

There is abundant proof that spruce beer was in common use and a 
generally accepted antiscorbutic during the 18th century. Sir Gilbert 
Blane (Select Disertations, London, 1822) refers to its use. Notes 
taken by Professor C. M. Andrews of Yale,i from the Calendar of State 
Papers Colonial, 1902, page 742-743, say that Captain Leak, before 
the Board of Trade in Whitehall, observed that "beer made with mo- 
lasses and spruce buds (with which that country [Newfoundland] abounds), 
is both cheaper and wholesomer than beer made with malt. " A note 
also taken by Professor Andrews from Document among the Treas- 
ury Papers P. R. O., London, 1772 states "in a letter from the Ad- 
miralty to the Treasury in England, the former speaks of 'essence of 
spruce,' from Quebec, 'which when brewed into beer may be of greater 
service to the navy in preserving seamen from scur\'y.' " 

> These and other data were supplied by Professor Lafayette B. INIendel of Yale University. 



606 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

WQien more rapid navigation was made possible by replacing sailing 
vessels by steam power, and a more varied diet was made possible by 
more quick and easy land transportation, scurvy ceased to be a perma- 
nent menace, and this knowledge of spruce as an antiscorbutic seems 
to have been forgotten. Although there were many outbreaks of scurvy 
during the Civil War, and forests of spruce trees were near at hand, 
we find no mention either in Medical History of the War of the Rebel- 
lion, Washington, 1888, Vol. Ill, p. 63, or in Munson's Mihtary Hy- 
giene, N. Y., 1901, p. 760, of spruce beer being given as an antiscorbutic, 
although the absence of fresh vegetables was lamented. 

In writing on "Scurvy in the World War" (International Journal 
of PubUc Health, 1920, Vol. 1, p. 203), Hess states that the largest num- 
ber of cases was reported on the eastern front, in Russia and among 
the nations neighboring Russia and in Mesopotamia. Along the western 
front very few cases were described. The civilian population of the 
various warring countries was by no means spared . The greatest amount 
of scurvy in civiHans, of which we have information, was in Austria, 
more particularly in Vienna. Tobler (Der Skorbut im Kindesalter, 
Zeitschr. f. Kinderheilk., 1918, XVIII, 63) describes scurvy in children. 
He was familiar with the writings of Lind and the advice of Erbenius 
to the troops of Chas. the Xllth in the winter of 1708-9. Tobler found 
that the infusion of pine needles as a tea gave the best results. As soon 
as he was assured of the usefulness of this remedy, the children from the 
children's home, of which he had direction, were sent into the woods with 
bags to gather fresh pine needles, and every child was given daily a 
cup of pine needle tea, to which Tobler gives high praise both as a remedy 
and a preventive means for scurvy. In most cases it is probable that 
the so-called spruce beer was really little more than an infusion, as it 
was taken when freshly made. 

The wide distribution of forests of black spruce makes it a remedy 
easily obtained at any season, and almost without cost. These forests 
are present from New York to British Columbia, Newfoundland, Hudson 
Bay Region, Alaska, and along the mountains of North Carolina and 
Tennessee. The Norway spruce is equally common in northern Europe. 
It is to be hoped that this efficacious, easily-obtained remedy and preven- 
tative may not be forgotten if a future need arises. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

BOBBINS AND PINS 

AGNES DEVOE MILNE 

The English lane winds upliill past some old cottages; plum vines 
climb over their grey stones, and wallflowers bloom bright on the mossy- 
roofs. At an open doorway framed in rosebuds sits an old woman; a 
three-legged lace pillow is before her, and her rheumatic fingers are 
evolving a Cluny lace edging with witching speed, while the pleasant 
click of the bobbins mingles with the hum of the bees. 

"Good afternoon, Mrs. Wattle," says a brisk voice; as the visiting 
ace buyer jumps from her little cart. "How's the work commg on?" 

The old body Hfts her bobbing curls. "Eh, Miss, not so bad; it's 
pretty loice. " The buyer gives an intelligent look at the lace on the 
pillow, says a word of praise, and passes on to the next doorway. 
Greatly interested, we trot along too. 

But here Granny is rocking Baby's cradle; no clicking bobbins today — 
only laments from the contents of the cradle. "Not working, Miss; 
minding Baby; he's a bit fretful. " She looks wistfully at her idle pillow 
covered with a towel. The buyer lifts a corner; a fine big centerpiece 
border is in progress. 

"Spider pattern," volunteers Granny with pride. The buyer takes 
out her purse. "It will take Granny many weeks to finish this, so we 
pay her a little each week. " 

We accept the buyer's delightful invitation to ride about with her in 
the pony-trap to see some of the isolated workers. As we jog along 
between blooming hedgerows, she relates the growth of this lace industry. 
Many generations ago Flemish and French refugees brought their lace 
pillows with them in their weary flight to these counties and shires 
of Bedford, Buckingham, and Northampton. They joined in friendly 
competition with the English women who were already making a lovely 
cobwebby lace; so with intermarriage the art passed down to son and 
daughter from mother and fattier — for men worked at it too. Royalty 
and nobility were extravagant wearers of lace — ruffs, cuffs, and kirtles. 
Gentry and ecclesiastic alike were adorned with it. But with the march 

607 



608 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

of progress, the invention of machinery, and so on, handmade lace found 
fewer markets. Private patrons were hard to keep, and gradually lace 
makers put away their pillows, and fingers forgot their cunning. Now 
within a decade a business-like agency has organized the industry. 
It distributes patterns, buys only the best work, and by excellent ad- 
vertising has created a world-wide market for the lace. The w^orkers 
have hunted up their pillows after years of idleness ; they have collected 
their ancient bobbins, and many a cottage is now enriched by a small 
steady sum coming in weekly — a blessing to elderly women who cannot 
get outside employment, and to wives of farm laborers whose winter 
wages are uncertain. 

The kitchen in one tiny house is a busy place. A ''bespoken" piece, 
a beautiful filmy wedding veil is on the pillow, and mother is late with it. 
Two little daughters are helping with thread, another is minding baby, 
and the fourth, the steaming teakettle on the hob. Mother, her mouth 
full of pins, is shuffling bobbins with miraculous speed, rebuffing with 
no uncertain foot a frivolous kitten, and directing the small girl to 
pour a "bit of tea for the lydies." 

"Six or seven hours a day is all the average worker can give to the 
lace, " explains the buyer as we pause at the next house where a white- 
capped old body displays her pillow with toothless pride. "Past eighty 
years. Miss," she informs us. She can do only simple edgings; many 
pins would tax her eyes, though this bobbin lace does not try the eye- 
sight as does the needle-point of the French and Belgians. She shows 
her old-fashioned light for use in the long winter evenings — a wooden 
block with candles fastened back of three crystal globes filled with 
water. These reflect, it is true, only an Early Victorian light, but the 
old folks prefer it to newfangled lamps. Below hang the hutches — rude 
reed baskets in which the crystals are kept spotless during the day. 
In the comer stands her pipkin for hot wood ashes; she cuddles this 
under her skirts in the winter, for stone floors can be bitterly cold for 
the toes. By the fire an old man is shelling peas with patient gnarled 
fingers. "I used to do a bit of loice, myself. Miss," he nods at the 
pillow, "and I mind old Daddy Dawson, when I were a boy, getting a 
prize for his loice." 

One more open door — a cheery little place with its stones scrubbed 
white, braided rugs, geraniums brilhant in the tiny casement windows, 
a fat white cat in the sun, and Miss Newton herself, who shares the 
cottage with Pussy, all tidy in print gown and pinafore! She is doing 
a set of coUar and cuffs. Over her head hangs a portrait of her mother 



1921] BOBBINS AND PINS 609 

at her pillow in the last days of her lace career. Miss Newton is espe- 
cially proud of the waved Flemish design which her mother used in 
much of her lace, and which had come down to her from an exiled an- 
cestor. Miss Newton owns some bone bobbins skilfully carved with 
the initials and dates of the several generations who phed them ; others 
are carved like little cathedral pillars. She remembers her mother's 
tales of the old dames who kept lace schools, and of the quaint songs 
called lace-tellings, which the children sang at their pillows as they put 
in the pins. 

Nowadays the workers can copy the best designs in any pillow lace. 
They teach the younger ones, lend their parchment patterns, and vie 
with each other only in the quahty of their work. Loose ends and 
careless knotting condemn a piece, and the worker soon learns what 
Ruskin preached — that honest handwork is never lost time. 

The poet Cowper Hved for many years in this district He often wound 
bobbins for Mrs. Unwin, and, in their old home, now an attractive 
museum, are her pillow, bobbin- winder, and candle-block. Cowper, 
writing to a friend in 1784 a half -humorous protest against unjust taxes 
on candles, says, "I wish the tax- workers would visit the huts of our 
lace-workers, and see them working in the winter months by Hght of a 
farthing candle from four in the afternoon till midnight. " In another 
letter Cowper speaks of a man in Olney, a common sailor, who amassed 
money in the lace business, and then put almost "his whole substance 
to hazard in sending a cargo of lace to America. " This venture, alas, 
was a failure; the busy colonists had more practical uses for their money. 
At the lace agency, careful sewers are employed to make up the bought 
lace into garments, napery, and other articles according to Fashion's 
latest whim. The completed goods, easily packed into envelopes, are 
sent through the mails to possible customers, who may keep them for 
several days' inspection. Women are usually glad to pay the duty 
(in most cases trifling), for the sake of owning strong lace of all varieties — 
delicate Bucks, or the heavier Cluny and Torchon. They may well 
feel a satisfaction, too, in the thought that they are upholding a market 
for a beautiful and womanly handwork wrought in a quiet Httle home. 



610 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

FEEDING OUR CITIES^ 

CAROLINE B. SHERMAN 
Assistant in Market Information, United States Department of Agriculture 

Feeding our large cities is a task of no mean m.agnitude. Even to 
keep them supplied with sufficient fruits and vegetables to meet their 
demands is a huge business in itself. Although Chicago requires 24,000 
cars of such produce yearly in addition to the quantities trucked in by 
neighboring farmers, New York City requires more than twice that 
number, or approximately 50,000 cars annually. New York's annual 
consumption of the leading vegetables represents about 14 per cent of 
all that are shipped by rail throughout the country, and of the leading 
fruits it requires 15 per cent. Compared with this demand, Chicago's 
requirement of 7 per cent of fruit and vegetable shipments seems modest. 

Apples, peaches, cantaloupes, and strawberries, white potatoes, 
cabbages, tomatoes, and onions, are included in these cars. Apples 
appear to be the all-round favorite fruit in both cities. On an average 
Chicago uses more than 5000 cars during a year while New York doubles 
the number and uses approximately 10,000 cars. The two cities thus 
consume about 22 per cent of the shipped crop of the country. The 
steadily increasing takings of the large cities undoubtedly represent a 
response to the intensive marketing campaigns waged by progressive 
apple producers' associations. Chicago draws its suppHes of barreled 
apples largely from IlHnois, Michigan, and New York, but goes as far 
as Washington for its boxed supplies ; New York goes far afield to fiU 
its demands, literally from Maine to Oregon, and south to Virginia. 
However, New York State continues to ship steadily to Chicago, having 
sent as many as 1500 carloads in a single year. 

As a rule, Georgia peaches reach both Chicago and New York City 
in larger quantities than those from any other state. These peaches 
are early in the market and continue for several months. California 
reaches both markets. In fact the peaches shipped out of these two 
states are equal to all the peaches shipped out of all the other states 
combined. The original commercial peach country, including Mar^dand, 
Delaware, and New Jersey, is now relatively less important in the 
markets. Peaches are found on the markets from June to October and 
prove to be the most popular of short-season fruit. 

^ Figures based on those supplied daily by the railroads in connection with the Federal 
[Market News Service. 



1921] FEEDING OUR CITIES 611 

The growth of the cantaloupe industry in the Far West and its com- 
petition with eastern production in eastern markets has been an inter- 
esting development in recent years. Most of the large cities receive the 
bulk of their shipments from California, Arizona, and Colorado. New 
York receives about 59 per cent of its carlot suppHes from these states, 
while Chicago draws on them to the extent of 81 per cent, and of the 
remaining portion practically none come to Chicago from the East. 

Most of Chicago's supply of strawberries are received during May and 
June. Michigan usually sends the largest number of cars, averaging 
about 340 a year. Louisiana, Tennessee, and Ilhnois are the next 
heaviest contributors. Chicago's total consumption averages 1200 
cars a year, and New York's 1750, but the amount varies greatly from 
year to year, largely according to quantity production and price. During 
the war, labor and transportation conditions greatly lessened the supply 
everywhere. 

The faithful potato is of course the vegetable most in demand. Car- 
loads received in Chicago average 1 1 ,000 a year. Michigan, Minnesota, 
and Wisconsin supply more than half of Chicago's demand and the 
remainder come from widely separated states according to season. 
They come first from Florida, then from Louisiana, Mississippi, and 
Texas, then from Alabama, the Carolinas, and Virginia as the season 
advances. Potatoes comprise about two-thirds of New York City's 
total supply of leading vegetables, and in number of carloads they equal 
its entire supply of fruit. Twelve million bushels is only an average 
yearly supply for the city. 

Practically all of Chicago's Bermuda onions are raised in Texas but 
New York receives imports from Valencia and even from Bermuda. 
California ships onions across the continent to compete with those im- 
ported and those grown on the Atlantic seaboard. Some years the 
imports for New York are more than 1,000,000 bushels, for with its 
large foreign population onions are much in demand. It has been found, 
however, that the demand for onions here as elsewhere is rather a stable 
one and is not appreciably stimulated by large receipts or low prices. 

Most of the early cabbage in the Chicago market comes from Cali- 
fornia, Florida, Mississpipi, and Texas. A noteworthy point here is 
that, when Texas had an exceedingly short crop in 1918 and did not ship 
to Chicago, Florida with an exceedingly large crop more than doubled 
her shipments there of the previous year. The reverse was true in 
1919. Late cabbage comes largely from Wisconsin and New York. 
Early and late cabbage together total about 1400 cars annually for 
Chicago and 2400 for New York. 



612 THE jouiiXAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Tomatoes are now shipped great distances during all kinds of weather. 
Both cities have a year-round supply. During the winter, Cahfornia 
and Florida ship in small lots, and, ver>^ early in the spring, Mississippi 
and Texas come on the markets in rapidly increasing quantities, followed 
later by Tennessee and states farther north. The west coast of Mexico 
has contributed as many as 50 cars to Chicago during some years. 

The production of these perishable crops is far more hazardous than 
the production of staples, and their shipment to market over great 
distances in varying degrees of weather, heat, and cold is a modern 
achievement of almost romantic interest. Those who undertake to 
raise and ship highly perishable fruits and vegetables on any large scale 
find themselves in a business, which, by the very nature of the product, 
is fluctuating and speculative. Crop pests, late frosts, wet seasons and 
dry, great heat and sudden cold, all take their toll of the supply available 
to feed our large cities with their many millions of people. 



BACON'S EXPERIMENT ON PRESERVING MEAT WITH COLD 

The following, taken from the Biography of Francis Bacon, refers to an 
experiment performed in 1626: 

''But in ill health and infirmity he continued his studies and exper- 
iments; as it occurred to him that snow might preserve animal sub- 
stances from putrefaction as well as salt, he tried the experiment, and 
stuffed a fowl with snow with his ovm. hands. The great apostle of ex- 
perimental philosophy was destined to become its martyr; he took cold. 
From his bed he dictated a letter to the Earl of Arundel, to whose house 
he had been conveyed. T was likely to have had the fortune of Caius 
Plinius the Elder, who lost his life trying an experiment about the burn- 
ing of the Mount Vesuvius. For I was also desirous to try an experiment 
or two touching the conservation and induration of bodies. As for the 
experiment itself, it succeeded excellently well' He had, indeed, the 
fortune of Pliny the Elder; for he never recovered from the effects of his 
cold, which brought on fever and a com.plaint of the chest; and he ex- 
pired on the 9th day of April, 1626, in the sixty-sixth year of his age." 



EDITORIAL 

Our International Interests. As this number of the Journal 
goes to press, the Conference on the Limitation of Armament is fbxing 
our thoughts on international affairs. If that gathering accompUshes 
nothing else it may drive home the fact that in these democratic days 
a whole nation must be ''internationally minded" if its politicians are 
to secure wise and lasting agreements with other nations. Can home 
economics workers as a group do anything to further international 
understanding and good will? 

Mrs. Norton's work in Constantinople is evidence that they can, 
and so are the exchange lectureships which the Association has fostered. 
The International Committee suggests still other ways by which we and 
our foreign colleagues can come to know each other better. It hopes 
that a sort of news exchange with workers in other parts of the world 
can be arranged through the Journal and it urges all members of the 
Association to send in any interesting foreign items they may glean 
from travel, reading, or correspondence. To Americans going abroad 
it will be glad to furnish whatever information it possesses regarding 
home economics institutions, and asks them to report their experiences 
to the Committee for the benefit of future travellers. It also desires 
to be informed of the presence here of foreign visitors interested in home 
economics and will do what it can to make their stay in the United 
States more profitable and agreeable. Above all, it now asks help in 
securing a suitable representation of American work and workers at the 
Third International Congress of Home Economics Instruction at Paris 
in April, 1922. Such representation may be of three kinds: by delegates 
to the Congress, by contributions to the program, and by exhibits 
showing the progress of home economics work in this country. 

The topics to be considered at Paris will be found on page 139 of the 
Journal for March, 1921. As was explained in the March Journal, 
prospective members of the Congress or organizations affiliated with 
it send in, several months in advance, brief notes of contributions 
which they wish to make to the discussion of any topic; a special editor 
makes a summary of all the notes received on a given topic and pre- 
sents this at the Congress. Opportunity is also given at the Congress 

613 



614 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

for brief indi\ddual contributions or discussions, but to be included in the 
preliminary' program sent to all members, the data should reach the 
Fribourg Ofl&ce of the International Federation of Home Economics 
Instruction as soon as possible. Members of the American Home 
Economics Association who wish to make such advance contributions 
may do so through the International Committee of the Association and 
should send them at once to Miss Helen Atwater, Department of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

Miss Atwater will be glad to know of any home economics workers 
who expect to be in or near Paris next Easter, and will pass on to them 
whatever information she has regarding the Congress. 

Standardized Weights and Measures. Glass cups, tm cups, enamel 
cups, aluminum cups! What a variety of measuring cups is to be found 
in the food laboratories of our schools and how far are most of them from 
approaching the standard volume of one fourth of a quart! The failure 
of home economics teachers as an organized group to have demanded 
a standard volume measuring cup is responsible for the heterogeneous 
collection we now find with us. That we have been content with such 
make-shifts for all these years is not a matter calling for self-congratu- 
lation. 

Cups of standard capacity are essential if we are to have uniformity 
in the interpretation of proportions used in cooking and, also important, 
they are essential to the formulation of a system of standard weights 
for the cupful of staple food materials. Almost everyone admits the 
necessity of knowing at times how much a cupful of flour, milk, 
et cetera, weighs, but not enough of us see the importance of ha\dng 
carefully determined weights to be used without change in all courses 
in foods. The usual procedure in most schools is for each successive 
class to adopt for the term's use its own casually determined set of weight 
equivalents. A perusal of the data reported in experimental and re- 
search j5.elds emphasizes the lack of agreement in such seemingly funda- 
mental points. 

Is there a difference, as some teachers and text-books continue to 
state, between the number of tablespoons of liquid and the number of 
tablespoons of dry ingredients contained in a cup? The volume of the 
cup is 237 cubic centimeters whether the material filHng it be sugar or 
water; with care, liquids can be measured just as level as dry materials, 
allowing the usual 16 tablespoons to the cup. 



1921] EDITORIAL 615 

Controlled processes of cooking and dietary calculations both demand 
such uniformity of data as we do not now have. Previous attempts 
have been made by interested ones to assemble and work up into usable 
fomi the information already available. The tabulation of average 
weights, used in many of the schools of the country, by the office of the 
Food Administration in 1918 was the most comprehensive of these 
attempts, but there was no response from home economics teachers 
indicating that,the adopting of the averages or any others was desired. 

Definite action on a question like this will help clear away the haze of 
inaccuracy and indefiniteness which envelopes some of our teaching of 
foods. 

Bread. Do You Want a "Standard" Loaf? Weights and measures 
officials of the United States are proposing a law which will require the 
sale of bread in standard loaves of one-half pound, one pound, one and 
one-half pounds, or in other multiples of the standard weight. The 
object is to remedy the present condition where loaves are made up in 
any size which suits the baker, and sold with the weight unmarked, 
leaving the buyer ignorant of the cost she is paying per pound. Loaves 
may seem similar in size but reveal two or three ounces difference in 
weight when closely examined. You can compare the prices which 
Grocer A and Grocer B are charging for sugar because each states clearly 
his price per pound, but there is no such way of deciding whether to 
give your trade to Baker C or Baker D. Each offers you a loaf, and to 
buy inteIHgently you must make a purchase from each, take the two 
loaves home, weigh them, and see which is cheaper. This condition 
prevails in the majority of states, there being a few which have retained 
the war time regulation of the loaf upon which weight must be given. 

There should be a remedy. Perhaps it is not the "standard" loaf 
but the selling of bread by weight — a loaf of any size the baker chooses 
to make, but with the weight plainly marked on the loaf itself, the 
wrapper, or a huge placard above the bread counter. This latter plan is 
favored by the association of bakers who forsee many difficulties in 
price adjustments with the pound and half-pound loaves. That we 
should permit as unbusiness-like a system as we now have for the sale 
of our most used food seems incredible. Either the "standard" loaf or 
the sale of bread by weight should be advocated. 



616 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

OPEN FORUM 

On Scientific Writing. A treatise on plant pathology^ may seem 
an odd book to recommend to research workers in home economics 
and even to the general reader. Only those interested in plant 
pathology, it is true, will appreciate most of it, but the last section 
(pages 633-661) entitled "General Suggestions" might well be re- 
quired reading for college students in all scientific courses and part of 
the laboratory handbook of every mature research worker. Dr. Smith 
is himself a scientist of more than national reputation and hence is in 
a position to give invaluable advice on the attitude of the scientist 
toward experimentation, the presentation of data, and the ethics of 
research. While Dr. Smith's standards may be higher than those 
of many others he has set them forth in a lucid, forceful style that 
shows beyond question the value of technique in writing whatever 
may be the subject, as the following extracts bear witness: 

The object of publication is to let other persons know what we have dis- 
covered. We cannot reach every one, nor is that the aim, but we should be 
able to reach those cultivating the same field. The choice of a place for 
publication is, therefore, not unimportant. Generally we should choose some 
journal devoted to our specialty or, at least, concerned with kindred topics. 

Having selected a place for pubHcation, the serious question arises how best 
to present the subject matter. This is comparatively easy only when the 
subject is a simple one and the contribution is but a note. It is grave if 
the subject is complex, and the writing extensive. Moreover, I have observed 
that the difficulty increases in proportion to the ignorance of the writer. 
Many a big book could have been boiled do-woi to a few chapters, and in some 
cases to a few sentences, or to nothing at all, had its author been possessed 
of clear ideas. As a means of compression, learn to think. This is too 
much to expect of every one, but not too much to insist upon for the man of 
science. WTiatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well. Clarity is the 
soul of truth, and especially in science there should be an idea behind every 
expression, and this idea should be stated as clearly as language permits. 
To read the dictionary is usually considered in the light of a joke, but I doubt 
if any student could do better, and that, too, through a long series of years. 
If he does not continually thumb grammar and dictionary, and persistently 
read the best authors, he will seldom acquire a luminous and persuasive 
style. There are various ways of saying things, but only one best way. In 
spite of the motley array of bad writers, it is best that subject and predicate 

1 An Introduction to Bacterial Diseases of Plants. Erwin F. Smith. W. B. Saunders 
Company, 1920. 



1921] OPEN FORUM 617 

should agree, that one should avoid spHt infinitives, and especially that each 
statement should be susceptible of but one interpretation! 

Every paragraph and every sentence in your paper should receive careful 
and repeated consideration: first, as to whether it tells the exact truth; 
second, as to whether it is absolutely clear, i.e., will convey the same meaning 
to all as to yourself (try it on your friends, if they will submit to it); third, 
as to whether it is complete, or requires various additions or qualifications — 
science is an eternal qualification; fourth, as to whether the sentences in it 
are entirely logical and move convincingly toward your final conclusions. 
These things can be determined only by repeated readings and much ponder- 
ing. It helps greatly, when one has finished a paper, judging from my owm 
experience, to turn back and re-write the whole of it. During this laborious 
and more or less irksome process, many new ideas occur to me, and better 
ways of stating ideas already expressed. ******* 
You publish to convince your readers and advance your own branch of 
science, and incidentally to enhance your own reputation. Look to it, then, 
that your writings are not only permeated with a love of the truth, but are 
forceful and limpid as a mountain stream. To this end, avoid technical terms 
when common words will serve, even if you must do so at the expense of some 
conciseness. Nothing is more discouraging to the general reader than a book 
or paper bristling with a newly invented terminology, or full of mathematical 
formulae. * ********** 

A good rule is never to use two pages for a subject that can be compressed 
by a little thinking into one. The generality of men use more words to express 
an idea than are actually necessary, if the best words had been chosen. Study 
the meaning of words, their shades of meaning, and re-write a subject twenty 
times, if necessary, to state it cogently and with brevity. Remember: nearly 
everybody will read a brief statement on an interesting subject, while only the 
most phlegmatic and determined wiU hold themselves to a long winded one. 
You will more than treble the number of your readers by halving your paper! 
Moreover, for the necessity of those who cannot spend even the minimum of 
time necessary to read a short paper, and for the convenience of ever>^body, 
especially of the foreigner, it is your solemn duty to sum up the substance of 
your contribution in a series of brief conclusions which everyone will read, 
and which, if well put, may induce many to turn back and read your 
whole paper. No little thing vexes me more than to take up a paper two 
hundred pages long, let us say, often in a foreign language, and find no 
summary. I dip into it here and there trying to find what it is all about, 
without actually reading it word for word, and if I cannot do this the chances 
are that I throw it aside. Other people beside an author have some rights! 
Once I might have read it verbatim, but I have read too many such without 
profit, and now I am wary. It may be nearly all ambrosia, but how is one 
to know if its author has not respected it enough to provide a summary of its 
contents, as an appetizer? 



618 THE jouRKAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

QUESTION BOX 

Question: How much time should be allowed, in the dining room of a 
state normal school, for serving dinners in a manner which conforms to 
good table etiquette? 

Is such service justifiable in consideration of the fact that it is a part 
of a student's education, or should plates be stacked at the table? 

Should it be necessary to serve cereal in the same saucers used for 
fruit — after they have been scraped at the table? 

Can we make our work in cooking classes, on table service, function 
when students see service of this kind three times a day for nine months? 

How many tables (eight each) can a student take care of and serve 
satisfactorily in a forty-five minute period? 

Is it legitimate for a state school to lay aside annually a profit on 
board charged students? If so, what is a legitimate profit? 

Answers to iJie above questions will be welcomed, especially answers 
from those ivho have had practical experience in administering a college 
dining room where student service is used. — Editor. 

One reply is as follows: 

1. Three quarters of an hour should be allowed for the service of dinner; 
one hour would be better. 

2. As a school or college is often judged by the table manners of its graduates, 
the most dignified service and appointments possible should be provided. 
Plates should not be stacked at the table. 

3. It seems most unfortunate that students should find table ser\dce in 
school inferior to that to which the majority must be accustomed in their 
homes. 

4. No, I think it would be difiicult. 

5. I know of one university dormitory where sixteen — two tables of eight — 
are served by one student most satisfactorily. Plate service is used. The 
time allowed in the dining room is not limited. A three or four course meal 
is served. 

6. It would seem only right that only enough profit to cover depreciation 
and renewal of equipment should be taken from the amount paid to the 
state for board bv students. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Childrens Bureau: 
Infant Mortality in Pittsbtirgh. An analysis of records for 1920, with sk charts. Bureau 

Publication No. 86. 
The Administration of the A id-lo-M others Law in Illinois. By Edith Abbott and Sophonisba 

P. Breckinridge. Bureau Publication No. 82. 
Administration of Child-Labor Laws (Wisconsin). Bureau Publication No. 85. 
Average Heights and Weights of Children under Six Years of Age. Bureau Publication No. 84. 
Breast Feeding. Bureau Publication No. 83. 
Children Deprived of Parental Care. A study of Children taken under care by Delaware 

Agencies and Institutions. Bureau Publication No. 81. 
Illegitimacy as a Child-Welfare Problem. A study of original records in the city of Boston 

and in the State of Massachusetts. Bureau Publication No. 75. 
Infant-Welfare Work in Europe. An account of recent experiences in Great Britain, Austria, 

Belgium, France, Germany, and Italy. Bureau Publication No. 76. 
Physical Standards for Working Children. Bureau Publication No. 79. 
Probation in Children's Courts. Bureau Publication No. 80. 

Standards of Legal Protection for Children Born out of Wedlock. Bureau Publication No. 77. 
State Commissions for the Study and Revision of Child-Welfare Laws. Bureau Publication 

No. 71. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Women's Bureau: 
A Physiological Basis for the Shorter Working Day for Women. Bulletin No. 14. 
Women's Wages in Kansas. Bulletin No. 17. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Agriculture: 
Beautifying tJie Farmstead. Farmers' Bulletin No. 1087. 
Rice as Food. Farmers' Bulletin 1195. 
Status and Results of Home Demonstration Work: Northern and Western States. By Florence 

E. Ward. Department Circular No. 141. 
The Farm Woman's Problems. By Florence E. W'ard. Department Circular No. 148. 

Issued by the New York State College of Agriculture: 
The Country Theater. Country Life Series, Lesson 153. 
Household Insects and Their Control. Country Life Series, Lesson 134. 
Use More Cheese. Country Life Series, Lesson 133. 

The Vegetable Garden. A manual for Junior Extension Workers in Vegetable Gardening. 
Bulletin 4. 

Issued by the University of Illinois: 
The School Lunch. By Mary Pack. Extension Circular No. 41. 

Suggestions for Making Jelly, Jam, Butter, Marmalade. By Nina B. Crigler and Harriet M. 
Phillips. Extension Circular No. 37. 

619 



620 THE jOL-RNAL OF HOME EcoxoMics [December 

Issued by the College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas: 
Food Preservation, Canning, Preserving, Jelly Making. By Margaret Gleason. Monthly 

BuUetin, April 1, 1921. 
Table Service. By Sarah Best. Monthly Bulletin, July 1, 1921. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 
Clothing — Food— Shelter. Bulletin No. 8. Missouri State Bd. of Educ, Jefferson City. 
First Reader. Nutrition Series. No. 1. Merrill-Palmer School, Detroit, Mich. 
How Natural Gas Burners can he Improved. Investigation made by the Bureau of Standards. 
King Good Health Wins. A Modem Health Crusade Play. Mrs. Ernest R. Grant, 923 

H Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. 
Laundering At Home. Bulletins 1-6 under one cover: 1 — Removal of Stains; 2 — Supplies 

for the Home Laundry; 3 — Washing Woolens and Silks, Washing Cottons and Linens; 

4 — Washing JSIachines; 5 — Ironing; 6 — The Equipped Home Laundry. American 

Washing ^Machine Manufacturers' Association, 10 South La Salle Street, Chicago. 
The Place in Education of Vocational Homemaking. Baroda CoUege, Baroda, India. 
Social-Hygiene Education. Bulletin, Ser. 12, No. 13, Teachers College, N. Y. City. 
Statistical Report of Infant Mortality for 1920. In 519 cities of the United States. American 

Child Hygiene Association, 1211 Cathedral Street, Baltimore, Md. 

BIBLIOGR.\PHY ON THE NUTRITIVE VALUE OF MILK AND 

MILK PRODUCTS 

COMPILED BY MARY CAMPBELL NYE^ 
Division of Home Economics, University of Minnesota 

Anderson, E. V., Dutcher, R. A., Eckles, C. H., and Wilbur, J. W.: The Influence of Heat 
and Oxidation upon the Nutritive and Antiscorbutic Properties of Cow's Milk. Science, 
1921, 53: 446. 

Bloch, C. E. : Eye Disease and Other Disturbances in Infants from Deficiency in Fats 
in the Food. Ugeskrift for Laeger, Copenhagen, Abstract in /. Am. Med. Assoc, 1917, 
68: 1516. 

Chick, H., Hume, E., and Skelton, R. F.: The Antiscorbutic Value of Cow's ]\Iilk. Bio- 
chem.J., 1918, 12: 131-153. 

Clayton, W. : Colloid Problems in Dairy Chemistrj-, Second Report on CoUoid Chemistry 
and its General and Industrial Applications, London, 1919, 96-117. 

Coutts, F. J. H.: An Inquiry as to Condensed Milks with Special Reference to Their 
Use as Infants' Foods. Report of the Local Government Board, London, 1914, New Series 
No. 56. 

Coutts, F. J. H., and Winfield, G. : Reports Concerning Dried ililk. Report of the Local 
Government Board, London, 1920, New Series No. 116. 

Daniels, A. L., and Byfield, A. H.: The Role of the Anti-neuritic Vitamine in the Arti- 
ficial Feeding of Infants. Am. J. Diseases Children, 1919, 18: 546-554. 

Daniels, A. L., and Loughlin, R.: A Deficiency in Heat Treated Milks. J. Biol. Cheni., 
1920, 44: 381-397. 

Drummond, J. C: The Growth Requirements of Rats upon Artificial Diets Containing 
Lactose. Biochem. J., 1916, 10: 89-102. 

Drummond, J. C: Researches on the Fat Soluble Accessory Substance. I. Observa- 
tions upon its Nature and Properties. Biochem. J., 1919, 13: 81-94. II. Observations on 
its Role in Nutrition and Influence on Fat Metabolism. Biochem. J., 1919, 13: 95-102. 

1 Sharpies Scholar, College of Agriculture, Forestry and Home Economics, 1920-1921. 



1921] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 621 

Drummond, J. C, and Coward, K. H.: Researches on the Fat Soluble Accessory Sub- 
stance. V. The Nut^^itive Value of Animal and Vegetable Oils in Relation to Their Colour. 
Biochcm. J., 1920, 14: 668-677. VI. EITect of Heat and Oxygen on the Nutritive Value of 
Butter. Biochan. J., 1920, 14: 734^739. 

Dutcher, R. A., Eckles, C. H., Dahle, C. D., Mead, S. W., and Schaefer, O. G.: Vitamine 
Studies. VI. The influence of the Diet of the Cow upon the Nutritive and Antiscorbutic 
Properties of Cow's Milk. J. Biol. Cliem., 1920, 45: 119-132. 

Emmett, A. D., and Luros, G. O.: Is Lactalbumin a Complete Protein for Growth? 
J.Biol. Clie^n., 1919, 38: 147-159. 

Emmett, A. D. and Luros, G. O.: The Stability of Lactalbumin Toward Heat. /. Biol. 
Chem., 1919, 38: 257-265. 

Ferry, E. L.: Economy in Feeding the Family, The Food Value of Milk, 1919. Conn. 
Agr. Exp. Sia. Bull. No. 215. 

Funk, C: An Attempt to Estimate the Vitamine Fraction in Milk. Biochcm. J., 1913, 
7: 211-213. 

Funk, C. and Macallum, A. B.: Studies in Growth. Ill, The Comparative Value of Lard 
aild Butter Fat in Growth. /. Biol. Chem., 1916, 27: 51-62. 

Givens, M. H.: Studies in Metabolism of Calcium and Magnesium. IV. Experiments 
on Man. /. Biol. Chem., 1918, 34: 119-130. 

Halliburton, W. D., and Drummond, J. C: The Nutritive Value of Margarines and But- 
ter Substitutes with Reference to Their Content of Fat Soluble Accessory Growth Substance. 
J. Physiol., 1917, 51: 235-251. 

Hart, E. B., Peterson, W. H., and Ellis, N. R.: Antiscorbutic Potency of ]\Iilk Powder, 
/. Biol. Chem., 1921, 46: 309-318. 

Hart, E. B., and Steenbock H. : At \\Tiat Level Do the Proteins of Milk Become Effective 
Supplements to the Proteins of a Cereal Grain? /. Biol. Chem., 1920, 42: 167-173. 

Hess, A. F., Unger L. J., and Supplee, G. C: Relation of Fodder to the Antiscorbutic 
Potency and Salt Content of Milk. /. Biol. Chem., 1920, 45: 229-235. 

Hopkins, F. G. : Feeding Experiments Illustrating the Importance of Accessory Factors 
in Normal Dietaries. /. Physiol., 1912, 44: 425-460. 

Hopkins, F. G.: Note on the Vitamine Content of Milk. Biochem. J., 1920, 14: 721- 
724. 

Hume, E. M.: Investigation of the Antiscorbutic Value of Full Cream Sweetened Con- 
densed Milk by Experiments with Monkeys. Biochem. J., 1921, 15: 163-166. 

Jephcott, H., and Bacharach, A. L.: The Antiscorbutic Value of Dried ]Milk. Biochem. 
J., 1921, 15: 129-139. 

Lane-Claypon, J.: Report to the Local Government Board upon the Biological Prop- 
erties of Milk. Report of the Local Government Board, London, 1913, New Series, No. 76. 

Langworthy, C. F., and Hunt, C. L.: Cheese and its Economical Uses in the Diet. 1912, 
U. S. Dept. Agri. Far. Bull. No. 487. 

Lyman, J. F.: Milk: Its Importance as Food. 1919-1920 Agr. Ext. Service, Ohio State 
Univ. vol. 15, No. 3. 

McClendon, J. F. : Methods of Extracting and Concentrating Vitamines, A, B, and C, 
Together With an Apparatus for Reducing Milk, Fruit Juices, and Other Fluids to a Powder 
Without Destruction of Vitamines. /. Biol. Chem., 1921, 47: 411-420. 

McClugage, H. B. and Mendel, L. B.: Experiments on the Utilization of Nitrogen, 
Calcium and Magnesium in Diets Containing Carrots and Spinach. /. Biol. Chem., 1918, 
35: 353-366. 

JMcCollum, E. v., and Davis, M.: The Necessity of Certain Lipins in the Diet during 
Growth. /. Biol. Chem., 1913, 15: 167-175. 

JMcCollum, E. V. and Davis, M.: Observations on the Isolation of the Substance in But- 
ter Fat which Exerts a Stimulating Influence on Growth. /. Biol. Chem., 1914, 19: 245-250. 



622 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

:McCollum, E. V. and Davis, M.: The Essential Factors in the Diet during Growth. 
/. Biol. Cliem., 1915, 23: 231-246. 

McCoUum, E. V., and Davis, M.: The Cause of the Loss of Nutritive Efficiency in 
Heated Milk. /. Biol. Ghent., 1915, 23: 247-254. 

McCollum, E. v., Simmonds, N., and Parsons, H. T.: Supplementary Relations of the 
Proteins of INIilk for Those of Cereals and of Milk for Those of Legume Seeds. /. Biol. 
Chen:., 1921, 47: 235-247. 

McCollum, E. v., Simmonds, N., and Pitz,W.: The Relation of the Unidentified Dietary 
Factors, the Fat Soluble A and Water Soluble B of the Diet to the Growth Promoting Prop- 
erties of Milk. /. Biol. Chem., 1916, 27: 33-43. 

:Mattill, H. A., and Conklin, R. E.: The Nutritive Properties of Milk with Special Ref- 
erence to Reproduction in the Albino Rat. /. Biol. Chem., 1920, 44: 137-158. 

Mendenhall, D. R.: Milk, the Indispensable Food for Children. 1918, U. S. Dept. Labor 
Childreti's Bur. Pub. No. 35. 

Milner, R. D.: The Use of Milk as Food. 1911, U. S. Dept. Agr. Far. Bull., No. 363. 

Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: Feeding Experiments with Isolated Food Substances. 
1911, Carnegie Inst. Pub. 156, Parts I and II. 

Osborne, T. B. and Mendel, L. B.: The Relation of Growth to the Chemical Constituents 
of the Diet. /. Biol. Chem., 1913, 15: 311-326. 

Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: The Influence of Butter Fat on Growth. /. Biol. 
Chem., 1913, 16: 423-137. 

Osborne, T. B. and Mendel L. B.: The Influence of Cod Liver Oil and Some Other Fats 
on Growth. /. Biol. Chem., 1914, 17: 401-408. 

Osborne, T. B. and Mendel, L. B.: Further Observations on the Influence of Natural 
Fats upon Growth. /. Biol. Chem., 1915, 20: 379-389. 

Osborne, T. B. and Mendel, L. B.: The Growth of Rats on Diets of Isolated Food Sub- 
stances. Biochem. J., 1916, 10: 534-538. 

Osborne, T. B. and Mendel, L. B.: The StabiUty of the Growth Promoting Substance 
in Butter Fat. /. Biol. Chem., 1916, 24: 37-39. 

Osborne, T. B. and Mendel, L. B.: A Quantitative Comparison of Casein, Lactalbumin 
and Edestin for Growth or Maintenance. /. Biol. Chem., 1916, 26: 1-23. 

Osborne, T. B. and Mendel, L. B.: Milk as a Source of Water Soluble Vitamine. 
J. Biol. Chem., 1918, 34: 537-551; 1920, 41: 515-524. 

Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: Growth on Diets Poor in True Fats, /. Biol. Chem., 
1920, 45: 145-152. 

Osborne, T. B., and Wakeman, A. J.: Does Butter Fat Contain Nitrogen and Phosphorus? 
/. Biol. Chem., 1915, 21: 91-94. 

Rose, F.: Milk: A Cheap Food. 1917, Cornell Reading Course for Farm Women, Food 
Series, Lesson III. 

Rose, ]M. S. : Experiments on the Utilization of the Calcium of Carrots by Man. / . Biol. 
Chem., 1920, 41: 349-355. 

Sherman, H. C, Rouse, M. E., Allen, B., and Woods, E.: Growth and Reproduction 
on Simplified Food Supply. /. Biol. Chem., 1921, 46: 503-519. 

Steenbock, H., Boutwell, P. W., and Kent, H.: Fat Soluble Vitamine. I. /. Biol. Chem., 
1918, 35: 517-526. 

Steenbock, H., SeU, M. T., and Buell, M. V.: Fat Soluble Vitamine. VII. The Fat 
Soluble Vitamine and Yellow Pigmentation in Animal Fats with Some Observations on its 
Stability to Saponification. /. Biol. Chem., 1921, 47: 89-109. 

Sure, B.: Amino Acids in Nutrition. II. The Nutritive Value of Lactalbumin, Cystine, 
and Tyrosine as Growth Limiting Factors in That Protein. /. Biol. Chem., 1920, 43: 457- 
468. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Second International Congress 
of Eugenics met in Xcw York, September 
22-28. It was attended by leading eugen- 
ists, biologists, statisticians, and physicians, 
from England, France, Italy, Scotland, 
Bohemia, Cuba, Norwaj^ Mexico, and from 
all parts of the United States. Addresses 
at the formal opening of the Congress, were 
made by Henry Fairfield Osbom, President 
of the Congress, Leonard Darwin, President 
of the Eugenics Education Society, London, 
and Charles B. Davenport, Director of the 
Department of Genetics, Carnegie Institution 
of Washington. After this geiieral session 
the program was divided into sections on 
human and comparative heredity, eugenics 
and the human family, human racial differ- 
ences, and eugenics and the state. 

To select the best in heredity is essen- 
tial for the future evolution of human 
society; to preserve the best is also essen- 
tial. The home economics women, by 
endowing the profession of homemaking 
with interest and dignity so as to appeal to 
our best equipped individuals, by dissemina- 
tion of knowledge which will help to make 
desirable en\dronments of all homes, may 
be important factors in the improvement 
of race hj'giene. 

]\Irs. Bryan was the delegate of the iVmeri- 
can Home Economics Association to this 
Congress. 

The Third Annual Convention of the 
Business And Professional Women's 
Club met at Cleveland July 19-23. This 
organization is made up of women actively 
engaged in business. There were bankers, 
lawyers, teachers, professional buyers, real 
estate dealers, architects, doctors, and even 
undertakers among the eight hundred 
women in attendance. Mrs. Lena Lake 
Forest presided and was re-elected president 
for the coming year. 



To the home economics people who were 
at Swampscott, it will be of interest to know 
that the Business and Professional Women's 
Club reorganized and raised their dues. 
This seems to be a year for reorganization. 

The program was varied, containing 
excellent lectures on education, legislation, 
and what the organization as a whole could 
do for women in all walks of life. A whole 
day was spent in discussing legislation that 
the club as a whole should endorse, and it 
was gratifying that the Fess Bill was one to 
receive recognition. 

This infant organization has a bright 
future before it and, because of its member- 
ship of business women, should contribute 
much to all women in all professions. 

Amy Kelly, State Home Demonstration 
Leader, Idaho, was the delegate of the 
American Home Economics Association to 
this convention. 

The New England Home Economics 
Association has plans for a busy year under 
the continuing leadership of Antoinette Roof 
of Simmons College. The general meetings 
of the Association will take up various 
phases of the subject: ''Home Economics 
and the Home," reserving for group con- 
ferences, arranged by the chairmen of sec- 
tions, the detailed consideration of pro- 
fessional problems. Dietitians are organized 
under Bertha M. Wood of the Boston 
Dispensary; homemakers under Mrs. Charles 
E. jMongan; social workers under Margery 
M. Smith of the Dietetic Bureau; and teach- 
ers under Jcannie B. Kenrick of the Newton 
Vocational School. 

The program for the first general meeting, 
held on October 15, was: The Opportunities 
of the Home Economics Teacher in Cities — 
]Mrs. William Lowell Putnam, Chief of the 
Foreign Division of the Military Intelligence 
Service, ^Massachusetts; The Rural School 

623 



624 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



and the Rural Home — Florence IVI. Hale, 
agent, IMaine State Department of Public 
Schools. 

The Home Economics Section of The 
Missouri State Teachers Association 

met in St. Louis, on November 2 to 5. 
Ida M. Shilling is president of this associa- 
tion, and Clare White, State Supervisor of 
Home Economics, is acting secretary. 

The Teachers of Vocational Home 
Economics of Missouri met for their 
annual conference in Columbia, Nov. 9 to 
11. The time was spent in the discussion 
of the following four topics: Making the 
Applied Art Work Function — discussion led 
by Helen Gleason, University of Missouri; 
Determination of Objectives for Home 
Economics — Adelaide S. Baylor; The Pro- 
ject as a Basis for Teaching — Louise Stanlej'^; 
The Home Project — Clare White, Supervisor 
of Home Economics. There was an ex- 
hibit and general discussion of illustrative 
material. 

The Home Economics Department of 
Tho University of Missouri has moved 
this fall into its new Home Economics 
Building. This building has been planned 
on a unit basis and only the first section has 
been built. This portion provides adequate 
laboratory facilities for the department and 
is being equipped in the most up to date 
manner. The following laboratories are 
provided: 3 clothing laboratories, 3 labora- 
tories for food preparation, 1 textile labora- 
tory, 1 laboratory for food chemistry, 2 
nutrition laboratories, and 1 experimental 
kitchen. 

Jesse Cline of the University of Kansas 
has been added to the University faculty of 
Misssouri, as Instructor in Home Economics 
Education. Mary Klingner, who taught 
in the University of Oxford last year, has 
been added to the staff as Instructor in 
Home Economics Education. 

The Home Economics Practice House 

of the University of Arizona, has been 
redecorated and refurnished and has added 
a fully equipped nursery to provide for the 



two year old child who has become a part 
of the household. Training in child care 
will be included in the homemaking course. 

Plans For Vitamine Research, Pro- 
fessor Eddy of the Department of Physio- 
logical Chemistry of Teachers College has 
completed plans for the pursuit of an inter- 
esting vitamine study on somewhat unusual 
lines during the coming year. An abundant 
source of the B vitamine has Ijcen provided 
in large quantities through the cooperation 
of the Corn Products Refining Company, 
together with the facilities of one of their 
large factories. Dr. R. R. Williams, for- 
merly of the Bureau of Chemistry and now 
research chemist of the Western Electric 
Company, will be associated with Professor 
Eddy in the direction of the experiments. 
The Fleischman Yeast Company has given 
a fellowship to provide student assistance 
in the work. The plans contemplate the 
utilization and fractioning of large quanti- 
ties of material to endeavor to secure the 
product in amounts which will permit of its 
identification. 

The work will be carried out under the 
direction of Drs. Eddy and Williams, partly 
in the Corn Products factory, and partly 
in the college laboratories. The Depart- 
ment of Chemical Engineering will assist 
to provide large scale utensils for this 
purpose. 

A New Food Forum. The Department 
of Foods and Cookery at Teachers College 
has been carrying on, for more than a year, 
a Food Forum for the New York City 
public school teachers, women's clubs, set- 
tlements, and other organizations. The 
material for the programs was. obtained 
through the work of the members of the 
classes in Investigation Cookery, and Eco- 
nomics of the City Food Supply. After 
being carried out in the Teachers College 
laboratories as well as in cooperation with 
the New York Ofiice of the Division of 
Foods and Markets of the New York State 
Department of Farms and ISIarkets, the 
results were popularized. 

Such studies as the following were pre- 
sented: How many brands of cocoa, break- 



1921 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



625 



fast cereal, or cofifee does your retail grocer 
carry? Is the co5perative buying club a 
success in New York City? Is a Farmers' 
Market practical for the New York City 
housewife? What is the role played by the 
Push Cart Market? How can the house- 
wife help the grocer to give her good service? 
What are the comparative merits of bulk 
and package groceries? How can the house- 
wife become a more intelligent buyer of 
food? Some uneconomic buying habits — 
are any of them yours? Where do our 
fruits and vegetables come from? Milk 
powder for home use. How to substitute 
cocoa for chocolate in cooking. Powdered 
eggs in cookery. How do you freeze ice 
cream? How is bread sold in New York 
City? 

The list of Forum members includes about 
five hundred active names. Three large 
meetings have been held. An exhibit was 
arranged at the spring meeting to illustrate 
the variation in price of bread per pound 
in New York City. At the third meeting 
held October 21, at Teachers College, the 
topic was "The Consumer's Responsibility 
Toward Problems of Weights and Measures." 

Hot School Lunch. Of 36 under- 
nourished children in one of the Mexican 
schools at Winslow, Ariz., 32 showed a gain 
at the end of a 3-months' test to demonstrate 
the benefits of a hot lunch at school. The 
home demonstration agent spent one week 
instructing two women each day in the 
preparation and serving of food, and in 
sanitary dishwashing. The project was 
then left under the supervision of the princi- 
pal of the school, with the Mexican mothers 
to do the actual work. The school board 
was so impressed with the result that it 
voted to continue the work at any cost. 

The school lunch work has led also to 
several improvements in the sanitation of the 
Mexican quarter of W'inslow. The citizens 
arranged a clean-up day when yards, streets, 
and alleys were cleaned, garbage collected, 
and refuse burned, resulting in a greatly 
improved appearance throughout that sec- 
tion of the city. 



Correlation of Cookery and the Lunch 
Room at the William Penn High School. 
With a total of 495 students of cook- 
ery, the lunch room offered excellent 
opportunities for work with foods in quantity. 
A number of foods \vith average retail prices, 
total cost $129.00, were requisitioned from 
the lunch room, prepared by the pupils in 
family quantities, and returned to the lunch 
room for serving. The pupils preparing the 
food could have portions at cost by ordering 
them one week in advance, or the teacher 
could use the school supplies for samples 
when she thought it wise to do so. 

Luncheons were planned by the pupils, 
requisitioned from the lunch room, and 
then prepared and served by the girls in 
their practice dining room. The cost given 
is based on retail prices. To this cost was 
added twenty per cent, and the luncheon 
was served to ten teachers at thirty cents 
per plate. The pupils could also order the 
Imicheon or any part of it. The luncheons 
were always prepared by twelve to sixteen 
girls for twenty or more people. Sample 
menus are: Tomato bouillon, toasted egg 
salad sandwiches, fruit cup, cookies, tea, cof- 
fee, or cocoa — total cost $3.65, prepared in 90 
minutes; cream of pea soup, Waldorf salad, 
baking powder biscuit, cup custard, tea, 
coffee, cocoa, or milk — total cost $5.33, 
prepared in 90 minutes; cream of celery 
soup, tuna fish salad, mufiins, butter balls, 
chocolate floating island, tea, coffee, cocoa, 
or milk — total cost $5.06, prepared in 90 
minutes; fruit salad, cream cheese and nut 
sandwiches, frozen custard with hot choco- 
late sauce, tea, coffee, or cocoa — total cost 
$4.12, prepared in 45 minutes; potato salad, 
cream cheese and pepper sandwiches, straw- 
berry ice cream, layer cake, coffee, milk, or 
cocoa — total cost $3.43, prepared in 45 
minutes. 

Siimmary of food costs 

Two period classes $129.01 

Special luncheons 43 . 92 

Total $172.93 

The Board of Education contributed 
$71.12 toward the cost. 

Adah Z. Fish. 



'/^ 



626 



TTIF, JOU'RNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Simmons College Endowment Fund 
Activities. Tlic campaign of Simmons 
CoUcRc is of general interest because of its 
unusual features. There is the Simmons 
Salvage Shop wliicli has cstahlislicd a perma- 
nent headquarters in IJoslon, and sells all 
sorts of things made by the girls of tiie 
college, in addition lo conducting a glorified 
rummage sale. Contributions come from 
all over the country — not from just the 
immediate neighborhood. During the sum- 
mer the Salvage Shop took to the road, 
operating a little Shop on Wheels. A 
truck was fitted up as a shop and went out 
to neighboring cities where it sold sjiort 
hats and dresses, handkerchiefs, jams, 
pickles, furniture polish, and countless other 
useful things. 

If you have not seen a Sally Simmons 
doll you do not know how kitchen neces- 
sities can be put together in an original 
and salable form. Rut it is possible! 



'Vhv next annual convention of the 
National Society For Vocational Educatloo 

will l)e held in Kansas City, January .S to 7, 
1922. 'Hiursday and Friday will be de- 
voted to the following section meetings: 
Agricultural I'-ducation, Industrial I-'duca- 
tion, ConiMiercial Ivlucation, Ilomemaking 
lOducation, Part-time and Contiiuiation 
Schools, Training in Industry, Industrial 
Rehabilitation, and Teacher Training. 
Cicneral meetings will be held Thursday 
evening and Saturday morning. 

The Vocational Education Associa- 
tion of the Middle West will meet in 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, January 11-14, 1922. 

The United States Civil Service 
Commission announces an o|)en comi)ctitive 
exaniini'lion for dcniiestic science teachers 
in the Indian Service, December 7, 1921. 
and January 18, 1922. 



The Zona Gale Scholarship. A unique 
experiment in scholarships has just been 
undertaken by the University of Wisconsin. 

The New York City branch of the Alumni 
Association of the University of Wisconsin 
has established an annual scholarship of the 
value of $700, known as the "Zona Gale 
Schohtrship" — named in honor of a dis- 
tinguished graduate of the university — to 
be awarded to a student who has shown that 
he possesses special talent of unusually 
high order, and who wishes to spend all 
his time in developing his special talent. 
The holder of the scholarshi]) will not be 
required to satisfy the regular entrance 
requirements, if he is deficient therein, nor 
will he be a candidate for a university 
degree. Nominations for the scholarship 
may be made to the registrar of the uni- 
versity. To receive consideration the nomi- 
nation must be accomjianicd by evidence 
that the candidate possesses unusual origi- 
nal talent, and that he would be able to 
utilize the advantages ofTcrcd by the uni- 
versity for the development of the talent. 
There are no restrictions in respect to age, 
sex, or race. 



Dr. Alice Blood of Simmons College has 
been asked to give a series of lectures l)efore 
the Division of Industrial Hygiene, of the 
Harvard Medical School, on The Relation 
of the ln<Uistrial riiysiciiin and Nurse to 
the Nutrition rmblems of the Worker. 

Caroline L. Hunt of the Oflice of Home 
Economics, United States Department of 
Agriculture, has relumed from England 
where she attended a school for organizers 
of Womcns' Institutes at Cambridge. 

Kate Bear, A. M. Teachers College, 
has succeeded Ikulah I. Coon, as State 
Supervisor of Home Economics in Arizona. 

Gail Burfield of Montcvallo, Alabama, 
has been apjiointed Assistant in Teacher 
Training in Home Economics, University 
of Arizona. She will have charge of the 
classes in the city schools where the senior 
home economics students of the University 
do their supervised teaching. 

The Office of Extension Work, North 
and West, and the Ofl'icc of Extension Work, 
South, have been consolidated into one ollice, 
with Dr. C. B. Smith, formerly Chief of the 
OlVice of Extension Work, North and West, 
as Chief. 



INDEX TO VOLUME XIII 



Accounting: See Budget 

Adult woman's challenge to the h. e. 

teacher, 193 
Adulterants: See Standards 
After-the-war economic food problems, 1 
Allan, Evelyn W. H.e. in a girls' com- 
mercial high school, 145 
American Dietetic Assn.: Annual meet- 
ing,* 381, 527 
American extension methods in France,* 

288 
American food research institute,* 335 
American Home Economics Association 
Meetings: Atlantic City, 48*, 96, (Ed.) 
181; Swampscott, 192*, 240*, (Ed.) 
272; proceedings, 385-482 
Americanization: See Social Work 
Annual Meeting: See A. H.E. A. Meetings 
Ansell, E. H. The industrial cafeteria, 452 
Appleton, Vivia. Observations on diet 
in Labrador, 199; Spruce beer as an 
antiscorbutic, 605 
Arms, Jessie Rich. A brief history of a 
child who has never been ill, 175 

B 

Bacon's experiment on preserving meat 
with cold, 612 

Bailey, Ilena M. A survey of farm homes, 
346 

Baird, Ruth. Lard and lard substitutes, 
549 

Baker, Alice E. The Roland Park com- 
munity kitchen, 35 

Barber, Edith M. The Syracuse home 
bureau, 512 

Bevier, Isabel, (Ed.) 371; Frontispiece 
(Aug.); H.e. at Illinois, 337 



Bibliography of IL E.: 44, 92, 142, 186, 
237, 333, 379, 568, 620 

Biester, Alice. Studies on the effect of 
storage on canned vegetables, 494 

BiGELOvv, Zella. The place of textiles in 
the high school clothing course, 432 

BiRDSEYE, Miriam. Plans for textile re- 
search under the National Research 
Council, 400 

Blunt, Katharine. The present status 
of vitamines, 97 

Bobbins and pins, 607 

Book Reviews: 

A.B.C. of exhibit planning, 89 

A.R.C. course in food selection, 331 

Art of spending, 376 

Bibliography on the nutritive value 

of corn, 92 
Breakfasts, luncheons, and dinners 378, 
Catalog of literature for advisers of 

young women and girls, 568 
Chemistry for public health students, 

282 
Community health problems, 331 
Conservation of textiles, 378 
Dehydrating foods, fruits, vegetables, 

fish, and meats, 379 
Elementary home economics, 235 
Five short h.e. plays, 379 
Food and life, 332 
Food facts for the homemaker, 90 
Furniture for small houses, 90 
H.e. in American schools, 281 
Household arts for home and school, 

522 
Household budget, 376 
Household chemistr>', 566 
Insects and human welfare, ?>2)i 
Laboratory course in physics of the 
household, 91 



Note: A star indicates news. 
Abbreviations used are: Ed. 
Q. B. = Question Box. 



Editorial; h.e. = home economics; O. F. = Open Forum; 



627 



628 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Ladies of Grecourt, 92 

Linen, 523 

Margarin, 567 

More recipes for fifty, 378 

Nation's food, The, 235 

Nervous housewife, The, 332 

Nursery school, The, 377 

Nursery school education, 377 

Nutrition and clinical dietetics, 565 

Nutrition bibliography, 567 

Sheila and others, 282 

Social case history, 523 

Standards of living, 375 

Story of milk, 185 

Students' manual of fashion drawing, 1 86 

Successful family life on a moderate 
income, 332 

Textbook of chemistry for nurses and 
students of h.e., 141 

Traveling publicity campaigns, 89 

Vitamines — essential food factors, 521 

Vocational education, 281 

Vocational education, 522 

Vocational homemaking education, 567 

Weekly allowance book, 376 
Botulism: Botulism and home canning, 

261; Sanitation in food preservation, 

297. See also Canning and Preserving 
Boys' and Girls' Club Work: See Exten- 
sion Work 
Breithut, Frederick. The present dye 

situation, 395 
Bridge, S. Helen. Training girls as 

consumers, 246 
Brief history of a child who has never been 

ill, 175 
British research assns.,* 95 
Budget: Practical budget accounting, 75; 

Visualizing your financial trend, 531. 

See also Study and Teaching 
BuRRiTT, Bailey B. The place of the 

nutrition worker in the health program, 

579 
Business and professional women's club,* 

623 
Business meeting (A.H.E.A.), 465 



Cafeteria: As a h.e. project, 54; In a de- 
partment store, 356; Industrial cafe- 
teria, 452; Red cross,* 576. See also 
Institutional Management 



Canning and Preserving: Bacterial flora 
of home canned vegetables, 448; Botu- 
lism and home canning, 261; Effect of 
storage on canned vegetables, 494; 
Preserving milk (Q.B.), 87; Sanita- 
tion in food preservation, 297 

Carvix, Florence. My four years as 
home demonstration agent, 543 

Caton, P^lorence. The hygiene of wom- 
en's underwear, 252 

Ceramic research,* 191 

Child, Georgle Boynton. The eight- 
hour day in operation, 132 

Child health demonstration,* 576 

Child hygiene course,* 192 

Children: Child health demonstration,* 
576; Child hygiene course,* 192; Child 
who has never been ill, 175; Height 
weight standards,* 192; Institute of 
child hygiene,* 288; Red Cross nutri- 
tion program, 536; Standards of child 
nutrition, (Ed.) 517. See also Nutri- 
tion; Social Work 

Choosing a washing machine, 370 

Cincinnati health exposition,* 529 

Civil service examination,* 192, 626 

Classicist and Romanticist, 217 

Clean restaurants, 82 

Cliff dweller's bread, 296 

Clinics: See Children; nutrition 

Clothing and Textiles: Bobbins and pins, 
607; Clothing purchasing habits, 600 
Conference of clothing specialists, 45* 
119; Extension work in clothing, 434 
Furs, 40; High school clothes line 
169; Home interiors (committee report) 
541; Hosiery guide for the shopper 
368; Hygiene of women's underwear 
252; Plans for textile research, 400 
Practical textiles in high schools 
342; Present dye situation, 395; Re- 
vival of household spinning, 225 
Simple hand loom, 227; Tests in teach- 
ing textiles, 483; Textile laboratory and 
mercantile world, 13; Textile Section 
meeting, 430-437, 473; Textiles in the 
high school clothing course, 432; Train- 
ing the textile chemist, 430; Unselfish- 
ness in clothing class, (O. F.) 519. 
See also Study and Teaching 

Clubs: See Extension Work 

Community: See Cooperation; Extension 
Work; Social Work 



19211 



INDEX TO VOLUME XID 



629 



Conference of Assn. of Teachers of Domestic 
Science (England),* 382 

Conference of extension specialists in 
clothing, 45,* 119 

Conference of specialists in health and nu- 
trition,* 578 

Conservation: Natural gas, 369; Some don'ts 
for the consumer of gas, 80. See also 
Economics 

Constantinople College for Girls:* Chair in 
h. e., 45; Constantinople Fund, 286; 
Mrs. Norton's work, 571. 

Constitution of the A. H. E. A., 477 

Contribution of European experience on 
low diets to our teaching of dietetics, 
49, 157 

Cookery: American cookery, 506; Baking 
powders, (Q.B.) 374; Cooking green 
vegetables, (Ed.) 372; Effect of cooking 
foods in pressure cooker, 446; Emulsi- 
fication in mayonnaise, 447; High 
temperature, (Q. B.) 374; Jellied grape- 
fruit peel or orange peel, 366; Lard and 
lard substitutes in pastry making, 549; 
Making doughnuts of low fat absorp- 
tion, 255, 309; Pressure cooker, (Q.B.) 
374; Research cooker>', 442; Saut6ing, 
(Q.B.) 374; Use of pressure cooker 
in home, 361; Vinegar in frying, (Q.B.) 
374. See also Food Values 

Cookery courses for men,* 530 

Cooperative : Choosing a washing machine, 
370; Community kitchens, 33, 35; 
Cooperative enterprises, (Ed.) 43; Co- 
operative research, 444; Feeding men 
in training, (O. F.) 373; Lumber camps, 
241; Meat marketing, 39; Stunts of 
h.e. workers, 204; Syracuse home 
bureau, 512; Textile laboratory and 
mercantile world, 13. See also Insti- 
tutional Management; Social Work 

Cooperative research on mayonnaise,* 577 

Cooperative service between the textile 
laboratory and the mercantile world, 13 

Cost of Living: See Budget; Economics; 
Thrift 

Council meetings (A. H. E. A.), 454 

Course in homemaking adjustments in 
social work,* 189 

Courses of study: See Study and Teaching 



D 

D. A. R.,*383 

Davenport, EuGE>fE. H.e. at Illinois, 337 

Davis, Michael M., Jr. The food of 
the immigrant in relation to health, 
19,66 

Dedication of women's dormitory at Mass. 
Agr. College,* 46 

Denny Grace. Cooperative service be- 
tween the textile laboratory and the 
mercantile world, 13; Practical teach- 
ing of textiles in high schools, 342 

Denton, Minna C. Botulism and home 
canning, 261; Experiments in the 
making of doughnuts of low fat absorp- 
tion, 255, 309; Gastric response to 
foods, 26, 58; Lards and lard substi- 
tutes in household pastry making, 549; 
Use of the pressure cooker in the 
home, 361 

Dickson, Ernest. Botulism, 263 

Diet: Diet in diseases of metabolism, 
213; European experience on low diets, 
49, 157; Feeding problems in lumber 
camps, 241; Gastric response to foods, 
26, 58; High fat in diabetic diets, (Ed.) 
515; Jewish diet, (O.F.) 279; Observa- 
tions on diet in Labrador, 199; Thrice 
boiled vegetables for diabetic patients, 
(Ed.) 516. See also Cookery, Food 
Values; Nutrition; Social Work 

Dietetics: See Amer. Dietetic Assn.; Diet; 
Food Values 

Digestion: See Diet 

Dodge, Bernice Frances. The high school 
cafeteria as a h.e. project, 54 

Domestic Art: See Clothing and Textiles 

Domestic Service: Eight-hour day in opera- 
tion, 132 

DoNHAM, S. Agnes. Home service in 
Boston banks, 440 

Dresser, Mrs. Horatio. The food econ- 
omy kitchen and its value in the 
community, 33 

Dye situation, 395 

E 

Eastern Ky. state normal school,* 192 

Eastern states exhibition,* 577 

Economics: After-the-war economic food 
problems, 1; Feeding our cities, 610; 
Food standards and prices, 219, 317; 



630 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Sociology and economics, (O.F.) 562. 
See also Thrift 
Eddy, Walter H. Cooperative research 

in colleges, 444 
Editorial: Atlantic City meeting, 181; 
Bevier, Isabel, 371; Bread — standard 
loaf, 615; Calcium in American diet, 
231; Calcium salts of heated milk, 
182; Call to service, 229; Classified 
advertising, 83; Correction, 560; Cook- 
ing green vegetables, 372; Cooperative 
enterprises, 43; Gram of radium for 
Madame Curie, 230; High fat in dia- 
betic diets, 515; International Con- 
gress, 42, 137, 230, 613; MacKay, 
Catherine, 559; New editor, 230; Nuts 
for our proteins, 232; Sheppard-Towner 
Bill, 83; Standards of Child Nutridon, 
517; Standardized weights and measures, 
614; Successful family life on a moderate 
income, 327; Swampscott meeting, 272; 
Thrice boiled vegetables, 516; \Miole 
wheat versus white bread, 561; Will 
you help, 514 
Education : See Study and Teaching 
Effect of processes on the vitamine content 

of food, 389 
Eight-hour day in operation, 132 
Ellen Richards research prize,* 529 
Equipment: Choosing a washing machine, 
370; Pressure cooker, 361; Proper 
height of kitchen table, (O.F.) 183 
Eugenics conference,* 623 
Experiment in saving steps,* 575 
Experiment in teaching health, 489 
Experiments in the making of doughnuts 

of low fat absorption, 255, 309 
Extension Work: Conference of clothing 
specialists, 45*, 119, Development of 
home demonstration work, 415; Ex- 
tension Section meeting, 415, 474; 
Extensionized farm woman, 302, (O.F.) 
329; Four years as home demonstration 
agent, 543; Girls' club work, 417; 
H.e. in rural Belgium, 31 ; Home demon- 
stration work, 408, 420; More facts 
about the farm woman, 81; Office of 
extension work,* 626; Recommendations 
of committee on extension needs, 422; 
Recruiting extension workers, 412; 
Relation of boys' and girls' club work 
to the rural home and community, 



207; Specialists,* 577; State leaders,* 
577; Survey of farm homes, 346; Syra- 
cuse home bureau, 512. See also 
Social Work 
Extensionized farm woman, 302; (O.F.) 329 



Farm and home bureaus,* 384 

Feeding our cities, 610 

Feeding problems in the lumber camps of 
the northwest, 241 

Fellowships: Univ. of Chicago,* 47, 189; 
Women's Educ. and Indus. Union,* 189 

Ferris, Helex. Popularizing food facts 
in a department store lunch room, 356 

Fess Amendment: See Legislation 

Fla. State College,* 529 

Food economy kitchen and its value in the 
community, 33 

Food forum,* 624 

Food of the immigrant in relation to health, 
19, 66 

Food Selection: See Food Values 

Food Values: After-the-war economic food 
problems, 1; Boiled milk, (Q.B.) 233; 
Calcium in American diet, (Ed.) 231; 
Calcium salts of heated milk, (Ed.) 
182; Cooking green vegetables, (Ed.) 
372; Effect of processes on vitamine 
content of food, 389; Gelatine, (Q.B.) 
564; Nuts for proteins, (Ed.) 232; 
Practical problem in dietetics, 501; 
Present status of vitamines, 97; Spruce 
beer as an antiscorbutic, 605; Vitamine 
research,* 624; Wtole wheat versus 
white bread, (Ed.) 561. See also 
Cookery; Diet; Nutrition 

Foreign: See H.E. Abroad; Social Work 

Four years as demonstration agent, 543 

Fuel : Some don't's for the consumer of gas, 80 

Furs, 40 

Further data on purchasing habits, 600 



Gastric response to foods, 26, 58 

Geary, B lanche . Housing for business and 

professional women, 449 
Gibbs, Winifred S. Stunts of h.e. workers, 

204 
Gilbert, Anna. The extensionized farm 

woman, 302 



1921J 



INDEX TO VOLUME XIII 



631 



Godfrey, Rosalie. Lard and lard sub- 
stitutes, 549 

G GODSPEED, Helen C. The school pro- 
ject, 250 

Greene, Mrs. Flora Hartley. The adult 
woman's challenge to the h.e. teacher, 
193 

H 

HARCtTM, Cornelia. The Roman kitchen, 
507 

Harris, Cara. Teaching foods in rural 
schools, 426 

Harvard Univ.,* 336 

Health: Clean restaurants, 82; Sanitation 
in food preservation, 297; Teaching 
health, 489. See also Nutrition; Social 
Work 

Hearing on h.e. amendment, 121 

Height weight standards,* 192 

Helping the housewife, (O.F.) 518 

Hess, Adah. Informal tests in teaching 
textiles and clothing, 483 

High school cafeteria as a h.e. project, 54 

High school clothes line, 169 

Home bureau, 512 

Home demonstration work, 408 

H.E. Abroad: Australia,* 48, 95; Belgium, 
31; Constantinople College,* 45, 286, 
571; England,* 382; France,* 288, 
382; Labrador, 199; New Zealand,* 
48. See also International Congress 
and International Conference 

H.e. at Illinois, 337 

H.E. Clubs : Kentucky State Normal School,* 
192; Schenectady high school,* 192; 
Stephens Jr. College,* 383 

H.e. in a girls' commercial high school, 145 

H.E. Section Mo. State Teachers Assn.,* 
624 

H.e. teaching in rural Belgium, 31 

Home project as a method of teaching 
h.e., 592 

Home service departments in banks, 405, 
439 

Hosiery guide for the shopper, 368 

Hot school lunch,* 625 

Household arts exhibit,* 47 

Household arts for junior high schools, 289 

Household ^lanagement: Eight-hour day 
in operation, 132; E.xperiment in sav- 
ing steps,* 575; Method of collecting 



data on home, (O.F.) 280; Responsi- 
bilities of the homemaker, 227 
Housekeeping under Charles II, 316 
Hygiene: See Health; Clothing and Textiles 
Hygiene of women's underwear, 252 



Informal tests in teaching textiles and cloth- 
ing, 483 
Institute for training nutrition workers,* 240 
Institute of child hygiene and nutrition,* 288 
Institutional Management: Department 
store lunch room, 356; Feeding problems 
in lumber camps, 241; High school 
cafeteria, 54; Housing for business and 
professional women, 449; Industrial 
cafeteria, 452; Institution Section meet- 
ing, 449, 474; Opportunities for women 
in institutional administration, 402; 
Opportunities for women in the modem 
hotel, 151. See also Cooperative 
Interiors, Report of committee on home, 541 
International conference on child welfare,* 

336 
International congress of eugenics,* 623 
International congress of h.e., (Ed.) 42, 

137, 230, 574,* (Ed.) 613 
International h.e.: See H.E. Abroad 
Iowa H.E. Assn.,* 47 



Jellied grapefruit peel or orange peel, 306 
Jordan, Edwin O. Sanitation in food 
preservation, 297 



Kahn, Max. Problems of the dietitian in 

the care of out-patient poor suffering 

from diseases of metabolism, 213 
Kaiser, John Boynton. Visualizing your 

financial trend, 531 
Kansas State Agr. College,* 383 
Kauffman, Treva. The home project 

as a method of teaching h.e., 592 
Kelly, John H., Jr. A suggestion on 

cooperative meat marketing, 39 
Kitchens: Community, ii, ZS, 512; Roman, 

507 
Knapp, Winifred. Studies on the efiFect 

of storage on canned vegetables, 494 



632 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



KoEHNE, Martha. A practical problem 
in dietetics, 501 



Lang, Harold. Bacterial flora of home 

canned vegetables, 448 
Lards and lard substitutes in household 

pastry making. 549 
Le Bosquet, ^Maurice. Practical budget 

accounting, 75 
Legislation: Fess h.e. amendment, 288*, 

305, 360; H.e. amendment to vocational 

education act, 121; Sheppard-Towner 

bill (Ed.), 83 
LiNDSLEY, Mary A. Opportunities in 

institutional administration, 402 
London continuation schools,* 382 
Lunch room at William Penn high school,* 

625 
Luncheon: See Cafeteria; School Lunch 

M 

MacKay, Catherine J., (Ed.) 559; frontis- 
piece (Nov.) 

^MacLeod, S.\rah J. The h.e. bureau, 439 

Malnutrition: See Children; Nutrition 

^Marketing: Cooperative meat marketing, 
39; Feeding our cities, 610 

Martin, 0. B. Home demonstration work, 
408 

Mary Gay Theater,* 384 

Meetings: See under names of assns. 

Menus: See Food Values 

]Merrill-Palmer School, 545 

Miller, Ellen. A hosiery guide for the 
shopper, 368; Problems in continua- 
tion classes, 427 

iliLNE, Agnes Devoe. Bobbins and pins, 
607 

Monroe, Day. Research cookery, 442 

Montana H.E. Assn.,* 383 

More facts about the farm woman, 81 

Morgan, Agnes Fay. The contribution 
of European e.xperience on low diets to 
our teaching of dietetics, 49, 157; 
Physical and biological chemistry in 
the service of h.e., 586; The responsi- 
bility of the consumer for food stand- 
ards and prices, 219, 317 

Mudge, Gertrude. Red Cross nutri- 
tion program in N. Y. City, 536 



Mueller, Jessie Rothgeb. Feeding 
problems in the lumber camps of the 
northwest, 241 

MuRLiN, John R. The need of further 
investigation of the effect of commer- 
cial and household processes on the 
vitamine content of food, 389 

N 

National academy of sciences,* 286 
National advisory committee on foods and 

nutrition,* 381 
National Research Council,* 95 
National Soc. for Voc. Educ.,* 626 
Natural gas, 369 
Near East Relief orphanage,* 382 
New England H.E. Assn.,* 143, 190, 287, 

336, 623 
New Fifth Ave. Hospital,* 383 
N. Y. Nutrition Council, 190,* 492 
N. Y. Society of Craftsmen,* 288 
N. Y. H. E. Assn.,* 577 
News Notes (Other news items are starred 
throughout the index): Bear, Kate, 
626; Bevier, Isabel, 578; Blood, Alice, 
626; Breckinridge, S. P., 240; Briggs, 
Rosa, 530; Burfield, Gail, 626; Dun- 
ning, Frances, 530; Francis, Emma, 
578; Green, Helen, 578; Guillet, Mrs. 
Alma, 530; Hadley, Geraldine, 48; 
Hayes, Maud, 144; Hunt, Caroline, 
626; Kauffman, Treva, 48; Kirk, Elsie, 
530; Lanman, Faith, 48; Lindsley,Mary, 
384; Little, Mabel, 530; Moving 
picture films, 336; National woman's 
party, 336; Noble, Mollie, 48; Norton, 
Mrs. Alice, 571; Orr, Flora, 144; 
Pittsburgh Urban League, 95; Pleasants, 
Bessie, 530; Roberts, Mollie, 48; Strong, 
Ann G., 240; Sweeny, Mary E., 144; 
Sydney Tech. College, 95; Thomas, 
John M., 240; Turner, Louise, 48; 
Van Meter, Anna, 48; Vocational Educ. 
Assn., 48; Vocational Education at 
Teachers College, 48; Wheeler, Ruth, 
384; Winchell, Jessie, 530; Winslow, 
Emma, 530; Zuill, Frances, 144 
Nutrition: Basal metabolism, 446; Insti- 
tute for training nutrition workers, 
240; N. Y. Nutrition Council, 190,* 
492; Nutrition classes for children,* 



1921] 



INDEX TO VOLUME XHl 



633 



574; Nutrition worker in the health 
program, 579; Red Cross nutrition 
program, 536; Standards of child 
nutrition, (Ed.) 517. See also Chil- 
dren; Diet; Food Values 
Nutrition and health classes for children,* 
574 

O 

Observations on diet in Labrador, 199 

Office of Extension Work,* 95, 626 

Open Forum: Developing unselfishness in 
clothing class, 519; Extensionized farm 
woman, 329; Helping the housewife, 
518; Jewish dietaries, 279; Method of 
collecting data on the home, 280; Piece 
of h.e. work, 373; Proper height of 
kitchen table, 183; Scientific writing, 
616; Sociology and economics, 562, Stu- 
dents' time record, 85; Supply of h.e. 
teachers, 84; Teaching budgets 84 

Opportunities for women in the modern 
hotel, 151 

Opportunities in H.E.: Banks, 405; Com- 
mercial world, 204; Hotels, 151; In- 
stitutional administration, 402; Lum- 
ber camps, 241; Revival of spinning, 
225; Some opportunities in h.e.,* 
335 

Opportunities in institutional administra- 
tion, 402 

Oregon Agr. College,* 239, 285 



Pageant of progress exposition,* 335 

Pamphlets received, 236, 283, 619 

Penn. State College,* 530 

Phelps, Ethel L. Further data on pur- 
chasing habits, 600 

Phillips, Velma. An experiment in teach- 
ing health, 489 

Physical and biological chemistry in ser- 
vice of h.e., 586 

Place of the nutrition worker in the health 
program, 579 

Plans for textile research, 400 

Plans for vitamine research,* 624 

Plea for American cookery, 506 

Popularizing food facts in a department 
store lunch room, 356 

Positions: See Opportunities in H.E. 

Practical budget accounting, 75 



Practical problem in dietetics, 501 

Practical teaching of textiles in high schools, 
342 

Practice house,* 624 

Pratt Institute,* 239 

Present dye situation, 395 

Present status of vitamines, 97 

President's address, 385 

Pritchett, Louise B. Experiments in 
making doughnuts of low fat absorp- 
tion, 255, 309 

Problems of the dietitian in the care of out- 
patient poor suffering from diseases 
of metabolism, 213 

Project: See Study and Teaching 

Project in demonstration cookery,* 577 



Question Box: Beefsteak, 374; Boiled milk, 
233; Gelatine, 564; Ice cream 233; 
Matzoon, 87; Phosphate baking powder, 
374; Preserving milk, 87; Pressure 
cookery, 374; Swiss chard, 88; Table 
service in normal school, 618; Vinegar 
in frjnng doughnuts, 374 

Quotations (not otherwise listed): Citrus 
by-products, 367; Ice cream, 513, 
Table napkins in history, 506 

R 
Ration: See Diet 

Reaching the public at a state fair, 46* 
Recruiting extension workers, 412 
Red Cross cafeteria,* 576 
Red Cross nutrition program, 536 
Relation of boys' and girls' club work to the 

rural home and community, 207 
Report of committee on home interiors, 541 
Report of regional organization committee, 

599 
Report of social service committee, 596 
Research: Amer. food research institute,* 
335; British research assns.,* 95; Ce- 
ramic,* 191; Mayonnaise,* 577; Practi- 
cal Arts, 444; Research work in U. S., 
449; Teachers CoUege,* 529, 577; 
Vitamines,* 624. See also Clothing and 
Textiles; Cookery; Study and Teaching 
Research work at Teachers College,* 529 
Responsibilities of the homemaker, 227 
Responsibility of the consumer for food 
standards and prices, 219, 317 



634 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Revival of household spinning, 225 
Roland Park community kitchen, 35 
Roman kitchen, 507 
Rural Work: See Extension Work; Study 

and Teaching 
Russell Sage College,* 240 



Salaries of h.e. workers,* 383 

Sanitation: See Health 

Sanitation in food preservation, 297 

Scholarship, Zona Gale, 626 

School: See Study and Teaching 

School for hotel workers (France),* 382 

School Lunch: Arizona,* 625; High school 
cafeteria, 54; Wm. Penn high school,* 
625. See also Study and Teaching 

School project, 250 

ScHtTMAKER, Doris. Extension work in 
clothing, 434 

Science Section meeting, 442, 474 

Science service,* 335 

Service: See Domestic Service 

Sewing: See Clothing and Textiles 

Sheppard -Towner Bill: See Legislation 

Shermax, Caroline B. Feeding our 
cities, 610 

Simmons College,* 577, 626 

Simple hand loom, 227 

Smith, ]\La.rgery. A social point of view, 
438 

Snedden, David. Household arts for 
junior high schools, 289 

Snyder, jMelissa F. A survey of farm 
homes, 346 

Social Work: Diet for out-patient poor in 
diseases of metabolism, 213; Food 
economy kitchen, 33; Food of the immi- 
grant in relation to health, 19, 66; 
Housing for business and professional 
women, 402, 449; Industrial cafeteria, 
452; Observations on diet in Labrador, 
199; Social point of view, 438; Social 
Service Committee meeting, 438; Social 
Service Committee report, 596. See 
also Extension Work; Nutrition 

Sociology and economics, (O.F.) 562 

Some don't's for the consumer of gas, 80 

Southern H.E. Assn.,* 288 

Sovereign states and the Fess h.e. amend- 
ment, 305 



Special instruction in homemaking,* 240 

Specialists in extension work,* 577 

Spruce beer as an antiscorbutic, 605 

Standards: Food standards and prices, 
219, 317; Height weight standards,* 
192; Standard loaf of bread, (Ed.) 
615; Standards of child nutrition, 
517; Weights and measures, (Ed.) 614 

Stanley, Louise. The sovereign states 
and the Fess h.e. amendment, 305 

State College, Brookings, S.D.,* 287 

State leaders in extension work,* 577 

Storer, Amy. Red Cross nutrition pro- 
gram in N. Y. City, 536 

Studies on the efiFect of storage on canned 
vegetables, 494 

Study and Teaching: Adult woman's chal- 
lenge to h.e. teacher, 193; Committee 
on teaching meeting, 424; Continua- 
tion classes, 427; Cooperative research, 
444; Coordinating instruction with 
home experience, 424; Correlating cook- 
ery and lunch room,* 625; H.e. at 
Illinois, 337; H.e. in a girls' commercial 
high school, 145; High school cafe- 
teria as a project, 54; High school clothes 
line, 169; Home project, 592; House- 
hold Arts for junior high schools, 289; 
Merrill- Palmer School, 545; Physical 
and biological chemistry in service of 
h.e., 586; Practical problem in dietetics, 
501; Practical textiles in high schools, 
342; School project, 250; Students 
time record, (O.F.) 85; Supply of h.e. 
teachers, (O.F.) 84; Teaching budgets 
in grades and high school (O.F.), 84; 
Teaching foods in rural schools, 426; 
Teaching health, 489; Tests in teach- 
ing textiles, 483; Textile laboratorj' and 
mercantile world, 13; Training girls as 
consumers, 246; Utility in education, 
150 

Stunts of h.e. workers, 204 

Suggestion on cooperative meat marketing, 
39 

Summer meetings of home demonstration 
agents and farm people,* 578 

Survey of farm homes, 346 

S^\'Eexy, Mary E. President's address, 385 

Syracuse home bureau, 512 



1921] 



INDEX TO VOLUME XITI 



635 



Table service in normal schools, (Q.B.) 618 

Taylor, Alonzo E. After-the-war eco- 
nomic food problems, 1 

Tea, 127, 177, 267 

Teachers College, Columbia Univ.,* 48, 288, 
336, 529, 577, 624 

Teachers of vocational h.e. (Mo.),* 624 

Teaching: See Study and Teaching 

Tests: See Study and Teaching 

Textiles: See Clothing and Textiles 

Thanksgiving dinners (in Colonial days), 
557 

Thom, Charles. Botulism and its rela- 
tion to canned food, 264 

Thrift: Committee on Thrift meeting, 439; 
Home economics bureau, 439, Home 
service departments in banks, 405, 439, 
440; Thrift kitchen, 512. See also 
Budget 

Training girls as consumers, 246 

Trilling, Mabel B. Informal tests in 
teaching textiles and clothing, 483 

Turkish coffee, 558 



U 



U. S. Dept. Agr. Buls., and articles published 

elsewhere, 524 
Univ. of Ariz.,* 624 
Univ. of Chicago,* 47, 189 
Univ. of Fla.,* 239 
Univ. of Illinois,* 530 
Univ. of Iowa,* 288 
Univ. of Kansas,* 530 
Univ. of Mo.,* 624 
Univ. of Va.,* 240 
Univ. of Washington,* 529 
Univ. of Wis. summer courses,* 189 
Use of the pressure cooker in the home, 361 
Usher, Susannah. Tea, 127, 177, 267 
Utility in education, 150 



Visualizing your financial trend, 531 
Vitamines: See Food Values 
Vocational Education : See Study and Teach- 
ing 
Voc. Educ. Assn. of Mid. West,* 626 

W 

Wang, Chi Che. The present status of 
vitamines, 97 

Warren, Gertrude. Relation of boys' 
and girls' club work to the rural home 
and community, 207 

Washington H.E. Assn.,* 47 

Washington (D. C.) H.E. Assn.,* 144 

Weigley, Mildred. Responsibilities of 
the homemaker, 227; Studies on the 
effect of storage on canned vegetables, 
494 

Weirick, Elizabeth. How can schools of 
h.e. aid in training the textile chemist, 
430 

Western Arts Assn.,* 192 

White, Edna. The Merrill-Palmer School, 
545 

Willard, John D. Recruiting extension 
workers, 412 

Williamson, Margaret. A revival of 
household spinning, 225 

WiNCHELL, Florence. Report of com- 
mittee on home interiors, 541 

Wood, Bertha M. The food of the immi- 
grant in relation to health, 19, 66 

WooDWORTH, Leo Day. Home service 
department in banks, 405 



Yeatman, Fanny W. Jellied grapefruit 
peel or orange peel, 366; Lard and lard 
substitutes, 549 



Zona Gale scholarship,* 626 



TX Journal of home economics 

J7 
V.13 

Food 

Sciences 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



