' . 








^ 



s 






HALT! STUDY 
THE PLAN Q 
THE HOUSE 
Q MAN SIR! 




BY JAMES CABELL MINOR.MJ). 



WHv 



THE PLAN O' THE HOUSE 
O' MAN, SIRo 

OR 

THE PARTS WATER AND 
POSITION PLAY IN THE PREVENTION 

AND TREATMENT OF 

PHYSICAL DISORDERS OF 

THE BODY 

BY 
JAMES CABELL MINOR 

Former Major and Surgeon U. S. Volunteers 

Author of "Negro Soldier in the Philippines" 

"Little Jed" and "The Ash Barrel" 

(Now in preparation for press) 



Fourth Edition 



PRINTED BY THE ROYCROFTERS, 1921 
EAST AURORA, NEW YORK 




Copyright, 1912, by 

J. C. MINOR 
Hot Springs, Arkansas 

Copyright, 1914, by 

J. C. MINOR 
Hot Springs, Arkansas 

Copyright, 1917, by 

J. C. MINOR 
Hot Springs, Arkansas 

Copyright, 1921, by 

J. C. MINOR 
Hot Springs (Arkansas) National Park 



MY EFFORT 



IN MEMORY OF 
MY BEST FRIEND 

WHO 

YEARS AGO 

WHEN SHE LEFT, SAID: 

"GOD BLESS YOU, MY BOY, AND 

MAKE YOU A GOOD AND 

USEFUL MAN" 



H 



,E is a benefactor of mankind 
who makes two grins grow where 
there was only a grouch before 
Elbert Hubbard 



FOREWORD 




GENTLEMAN in a town called New 
York, on receiving a copy of the first 
edition of The Plan o' the House o' Man, 
Sir, wrote: 

" Usually a consultation with a doctor 
means a cost all the way from five dollars 
to a funeral, but your book is a consul- 
tation with a doctor and a d good one for a dollar." 

Another writer said: 

" It is so simply put that children and even some doctors can 

understand." 

But some doctors have not understood; some have taken the 
matter too seriously and have impertinently pointed out 
technical inaccuracies. 

The Plan o' the House o' Man, Sir, essays, to teach the poor 
and the prosperous the simplest way to HARMONIZE with 
Nature's Plan for keeping clean the BODY, the TEMPLE of 
the SOUL. 

No writer has yet mentioned the turning on the left side a 
last half hour each day prior to rising from rest as the proper 
way to assist peristalsis (Natural Force) and to prevent 
stagnation of wastes in the intestines (colon stasis) which is 
one of the cardinal causes of what they call " Rheumatism." 
You can look into this work and see the inside of yourself. 



Page 8 % THE PLAN O' THE 

To attract your attention to your " in'ards " is a bit dis- 
agreeable and indelicate I will admit, but it is not a bit less 
disagreeable and indelicate to have the papers announce 
some morning that " our beloved citizen, Mr. T. H. Oughtless 
was taken to the hospital yesterday, and the surgeons operated 
on him for appendicitis, etc., etc." 

There are some who (I do not know whether to term them 
surgeons or something else that I have in mind) have advo- 
cated cutting out the appendix whenever a chance is offered 
e.g., before ill luck demands it. Infancy, early youth and 
abdominal operations for other causes are set forth as proper 
occasions for " cutting out this blunder " of Nature. 

It is better to prevent trouble simply than to attempt cure 

with difficulty and danger. 

The plan pretends to be neither scientific nor unscientific. 

It is like the old darkey preacher's text: " Hit ain't needer in 

de frontmos' part o' de book, ner yit in de hin'mos' part. Hit 's 

jes' middle ways 'twixt een' an' een'." 

The gist of it is serious. It contains hints as to health habits 

hints so simple and easy to follow that no one should be 

excused for failing to try them. 

I have attempted to put a little humor in it. I wish that I 

could borrow more. It 's a good thing to mix with the serious 

things of life, if there really be any. We know, if we know 

anything, that a dash of humor brings joy and keeps us 

from being too serious. 

There are people we know who have been so serious all their 

lives guessing at what God was going to do with their souls, 

that they forgot all about studying the body He gave 

them to keep clean to say nothing of forgotten doctor bills. 

So they died and hid their bodies in the ground. 



HOUSE O' MAN, SIR Page 9 

This work is for the well man. Of course, the sick man may 
read it. If, however, it makes him sicker, he may give it to 
some other man with a stronger stomach. 

Respectfully, 
The Author. 




POSE. The purpose of this book, its 
pictures, diagrams and notes, is to show 
the simplest means of preventing many 
physical disorders human flesh is un- 
willing heir to : Some are what they term : 
"Tonsilitis," "Gingivitis," " Appendicitis," 
so likewise, "chronic constipation" of the 
bowels, "indigestion," "dyspepsia," "palpitation," "sick head- 
ache," " biliousness," " auto-intoxication " (absorption of 
toxins), many reflex disturbances, general " cussedness," and 
others, and others all are preventable. 
The book is commended to the old folks (who may learn new 
truths); to the young folks (the hope of the land), and to 
medicine men and nurses who may read with the utmost 
propriety. 

It is purposely shorn of technical terms, so that you and I 
may easily understand. 





HE PLAN. I am inviting your attention to 
the Plan upon which the House of the 
Spirit of Man is built. (See title plate.) 
There is the Gateway (or swallow, or 
esophagus), leading to the Kitchen (or 
stomach). Here on the right side we find 
the exit from the Kitchen through the 
Pantry (or duodenum) to the Dining Hall (or small intestine), 
and here, still on the right of the Plan, is the Valve Door to 
the (cecum-appendix), " slop-jar " or " Garbage Can," or 
head of the great Sewer, Incinerator and Heating Plant (or 
ascending colon, transverse colon and descending colon, 
sigmoid flexure and final exit). 

Please note that the Kitchen and Dining Hall have their exit 
on the right side of the body. 

Also note that two-thirds of the intestinal tract empty to THE 
RIGHT as far as the GARBAGE VALVE in your right hand 
lower corner; the other third from there on, is the DANGER 
ZONE, and MUST be EMPTIED COMPLETELY each 
day to the LEFT SIDE of the body before^ RISING from the 
night's rest. 




THE GATEWAY 

Haste ye now and mark his swallow, 
Take tasty truck. Ash Barrel 

TEWAY. All food going to the Kitchen 
of the Plan should be thoroughly incor- 
porated with the mouth juices (saliva). 
If saliva be not well mixed with bread- 
stuff, sugars, and all vegetable foods 
before entering the Kitchen (stomach), fer- 
mentation or "indigestion" will take place. 

Table conversation, sharp acids and chewing thoroughly 

excite the flow of saliva. 

Do not " wash food down " with fluids. 

Here you see a mass of masticated food in the swallow on its 

way to enter the Kitchen below. 

NOTE. The proper position for swallowing is the erect 

posture, sitting or standing. 






Hasie ye now and mark his 
swallow. Take Tasiy Truck 




KITCHEN 

Ah, sir, no food so fit as food 
exquisite cooked. Ash Barrel 

ITCHEN. Here the food is in the Kitchen 
of the Plan being cooked by the Cooking 
Agent (gastric juice). It takes usually from 
two to three hours for this "digesting" or 
" cooking " to be completed. 
Fluids (water and others) should be taken 

sparingly up to the second hour after 

eating, lest you " put out the fire " in the Kitchen and have 

incomplete or faulty digestion. 

During the third and fourth hours after eating, water should 

be taken freely to carry the digested food to its destination 

further on. 

Thin people should drink freely (two or four glasses) during 

this period. Heavy people, sparingly. Regular drinking 

necessary for both classes. 

Fluids create weight; food gives us strength. Each must be 

taken properly in quantity and in time to avoid danger of 

faulty nutrition, faulty delivery and faulty elimination of 

wastes. 

NOTE. The proper position of the body for digesting food is 
the erect posture, or lying down on the right side or back. 




Ah sir, no food so fii 
as food exquisite cooked. 



PANTRY 

Thy liver, man, quick; thy 
pancreas, too. Ash Barrel 

ANTRY. The food is now passing through 
the Pantry (duodenum), to be seasoned 
as it were, by the peculiar flow of bile from 
the liver, which is just to the right of and 
above the " pan-"- section in the 
Plan, and by that equally wonderful flow 
from the pancreas, which lies just to the 
left oTthe little "-try "- section of the Pantry. 
Both these chefs pour out and mix their cordials with the food 
as it passes to the Dining Hall, converting it into the Elixir 
of Life. Please see "Liver and Pancreas," page 31. 
This function of the liver and pancreas probably takes place 
during the third and fourth hours after eating. 
NOTE. The proper position of the body for this action of 
the Liver and Pancreas is the erect posture, sitting, standing 
or lying down on the right side or back. 






Thy Liver Man, Quick! 
Thy Pancreas Too ! 




DINING HALL 

Oh, what food divine; nectar, 
too, for gods. Ash Barrel 

NING HALL. Here are the waiters (the 
lacteal system) in the Dining Hall, serving 
the Elixir of Life to the millions of cells 
that make up, develop, and maintain that 
which we call Man. 

The brain, the heart, the lungs, the muscles, 
the bones, the nerves, and all the organs of 
the body each receives its share of food and water taken in and 
prepared by the mouth, the stomach, the liver and the pancreas. 
C The body can use only a certain portion of the prepared 
food and water; any surplus is either retained to decompose 
into dangerous toxins in the Dining Hall or be thrown, with the 
other refuse through the Garbage Valve into the Sewer, on 
the right side of the body. 

The serving in the Dining Hall is probably from the fourth to 
the eighth hour after eating. 

NOTE. The proper position for serving the body from the 
small intestine is the erect posture, or lying down on the right 
side or back. 




Oh, what food. Divine! 
Neciar too for Gods. 




GARBAGE SYSTEM 

Man, thou has fed well; now clean 
away thy trash. Ash Barrel 

RBAGE SYSTEM. If you have followed 
your vocation during the day and slept or 
rested as you should during the night, 
ABOUT three hours on your back, 
ABOUT five on your right side, the 
Kitchen contents will have passed into the 
Pantry, thence to the Dining Hall, and all 
refuse and surplus food will have passed to the sewer head in 
the ascending colon. Should you rise now without turning to 
your left side for a few minutes at least,better one or two hours, 
you will carry this loaded colon all day. Failure to turn to your 
left side will cause a multitude of troubles. For example, weight 
of refuse upon the appendix (chief, if not sole cause of Appendi- 
citis), chronic constipation of the bowel, fermentation and re- 
tention of wastes and absorption of toxins. The colon will be 
inflated like the inner tube of an auto-tire, and by its pressure on 
the under surface of the liver G u st above) impede the 
action of this wonderful organ, causing " torpid liver,'* 
" gall stones," " obstruction in flow of the great venous, return 
of used blood to the liver and to the lungs," etc. 
Many reflex disturbances and disorders of contiguous organs 
will ensue. 

NOTE. NEVER rise from rest without assisting nature by turn- 
ing on the left side for one -half hour to one or two hours to empty 
the contents of the ascending colon to the transverse colon, and 
thence to the descending colon, on the left side of the body. 




Man ihou hast fed well 
Now deem away ih$r frask 



NOTES ON 

Construction and Maintenance 

of 

The Plan 




THE TRIPOD OF HEALTH 




T us see what health really rests upon. 
The legs of health are three: SLEEP (rest), 
NUTRITION and ELIMINATION. If 
either of these three legs be short, health 
totters as. would a three-legged stool. 
Rest for the nerve systems (voluntary 
and involuntary), food for strength of body 
and water for transportation of food and for flushing the four 
sewers of the body. These are essential to health. 

SLEEP. It is suggested that you sleep at night (if possi- 
ble) no joint resting on another. The limbs should be 
gracefully and easily flexed. Do not sleep with " clenched 
fists," or tightly drawn elbows or knees. Do not impede the 
circulation of vital fluids. 

As nearly as possible, one should rest or sleep, lying on the 
back the first part of the night, on the right side the second part 
of the night, and about one hour, more or less, on the left side 
before rising. 

Never lie on the left side of the body while food, water or 
medicine is in the stomach (Kitchen). Nurses should take 
notice. Their teachers have neglected this point usually. 
It is well for you to know that you have two nerve systems 
the one voluntary, the other involuntary in action; the 
controlled by the brain, the other by the solar plexus. Both n 
rest, the brain inside the skull, the solar plexus just back of 
stomach (your Kitchen). 
The two systems send hands and arms out in all direction 




Page 24 THE PLAN O' THE 

in thousands of places in the body they join in friendly grasp 
to equilibrate the power of the Plan. 
Protect the solar plexus; it is so little thought of. 
A prize fighter some years ago (and maybe recently, for all I 
know), hit another artist over the " solar plexus." In sympathy 
for this violation of Nature's and the Marquis of Queensbury's 
rules, the entire body was for a time without power. 
The solar plexus is disturbed in differing degrees by any blow 
or pressure, or irritation over the region of, or in the stomach. 
If the stomach be wrestling with gas or an overload of food, 
digested or undigested, or by a green apple, or other incubus 
placed therein by man's ignorance or piggishness, this impor- 
tant and sensitive nerve center is unable to co-ordinate and regu- 
late its varied functions, and we may find among other dis- 
turbances, convulsions, delirium, a palpitating heart, a head- 
ache or dizziness, etc., etc.; and if relief be not soon coming, 
the entire forces will be in rebellion and Nature put to extreme 
resources to re-establish peace. 

Always take water, one-fourth glass, one-half glass, or a full 
glass under such conditions, and lie down on the right side 
until the offending contents have been transferred, up or down. 

NUTRITION.* Avoid overeating; a good way, avoid 
tipping the waiter. Eat by the clock, three times daily, 
if possible. Eat at the same hours each day; thus 
promoting regularity in action of vital organs. When a meal 
is missed, it is better to wait for the next eating hour than to 
get the stomach into irregular habits. 

C. Eat ripe and well-cooked vegetables. Avoid fried 
foods, and thin soups. Avoid coffee, tea and so-called 



See " Calories " at the end of the book 



HOUSE 'O MAN, SIR Page 25 

refreshing " colas" and "olas." They are drugs and dangerous.* 
d.Do not forget rice. It can be served in over two hundred whole- 
some and appetizing ways. Rice gives, in full measure, strength 
to the body. Potatoes and rice are breads that are not adulter- 
ated by the commercial hog, except by talcum in rice. Bleached 
rice should always be thoroughly rinsed of its talcum powder 
with much cold water before cooking. 

Meat is not necessary for a peaceful animal, except in limited 
quantities. See "Calories." It is all right for the fighter or 
animal that does not work, but preys upon others. Note the 
difference between the carnivorous brutes and the horse and 
other beasts of burden. The one is useless, the other indispen- 
sable. Carnivorous beasts and monsters are fast disappearing 
from the earth. 

I am not in sympathy with advocates of heavy eating. Eat in 
proportion to physical energy to be expended. Assimilated food 
is fuel for the body. If it is not burned by exercise, its change 
and decay in the tissues will cause auto-intoxication (self 
poisoning). 

" What must I eat?" I am reminded of an old doctor in a vil- 
lage, who, when asked the question, said: "Where are you 
stopping?" 

" I am stopping at the hotel here on the corner, sir." 
"Oh, by heck! eat anything you c'n git." 
It is not so much a question of what we may or must eat, either 
in sickness or in health, as it is the quantity, the way it is pre- 
pared, masticated and further disposed of by water and posture. 
One may eat and digest the best food in the world in proper 
proportion, but if food is allowed to remain too long in the 
stomach, (Kitchen) before adding water to carry it to its des- 



Avoid," meaning, be careful 



Page 26 THE PLAN O' THE 

tination, the meal is not only wasted, but dangerous. Fermen- 
tation will ensue, which means " indigestion " and absorption 
of toxins. 

Drink water in tentative quantities if indigestion arises during 
the hour after eating, and lie down for a few minutes on the 
right side. The stomach empties on the right. 
Fermenting food, " indigestion," must not remain in the 
stomach. Wash it out, up or down, with water. 

ELIMINATION. Combustion is taking place every 
minute of time in all cells, tissues, and organs of the 
body. If the " ashes" of this combustion be not re- 
moved, poisoning of the system takes place (auto-intoxication). 
Elimination of these wastes or poisons is accomplished by the 
flushing action of water through the four sewers of the body- 
the lungs, the skin, the kidneys and the bowels. 
You can't flush sewers without water. 

If regular flushing is desired, you should' drink water regularly. 
C I would suggest that you drink one glass of water one hour 
before each meal to wash out the stomach. Clean the Kitchen 
(stomach) before attempting to cook (digest) food. 
Drink one-half to one glass upon sitting down to the table. Too 
much water during the meal will put out the fire in the Kitchen 
(stomach). 

Drink water freely during the third and fourth hours 
after meals to convey the digested or undigested food to its 
destination. It should not remain longer in the stomach. 
Drinking water in this way insures four desirable acts of Na- 
ture: (1) A clean Kitchen, (2) transportation of food, (3) flush- 
ing the sewers of the body, (4) lubrication of all muscles, joints, 
nerves, organs and cells. 
No drink of water is more important for prince or pauper, 



HOUSE O' MAN, SIR Page 27 

laborer or loafer, than one taken during the latter part of the 
night, when one may be disturbed by wakefulness, bad dreams 
or the desire for good health. Take one glass and rest on the 
right side. Aside from being natural lavage, the draught is a 
wholesome stimulus to peristalsis (bowel muscle-action) and is 
soothing to kidneys and bladder. (Forget what the other doctor 
told you about this.) 

On awakening in the morning, there* is always more or less 
mucus or catarrhal secretion in the stomach, deposited during 
the night. This accumulation should be washed from the 
stomach by water taken in during the night, or at least one 
hour before food is taken in the morning. As a rule, breakfast 
is eaten too soon after arising. Here the capitalist and the 
laborer will weigh alike the delights of good health against the 
slings and arrows of convention and other inconveniences. 
C. I mention the drinking of water during the night as impor- 
tant. Let me emphasize. I believe that drinking water during 
the night not only assists in cleansing and toning the alimentary 
tract (foodway), during its period of quiescence, and, in giving 
a more restful vacation to the reflex nervous system, but that 
it is without a doubt the greatest means of preventing some 
forms of kidney diseases and bladder disorders. 
If urine has to trickle through the kidneys during one's sleep- 
ing hours, as is ordained, and evidently to be fulfilled, for the 
Lord's sake let it be as soothingly diluted as possible. Water is 
the best diluent. Diluted salt water is pleasing to mucous sur- 
faces; strong salt water is highly irritating. The kidneys and 
bladder are lined with mucous tissue. 
Show me the man whose urine is habitually red and scant on 
rising from sleep, and I think that I can safely wager that he 
either has a kidney and bladder trouble or will have before he 
is fifty, whether he drinks alcoholics or not. I know that he 



Page 28 



THE PLAN O' THE 



does not drink water during the night. A glass or two of water 
taken during the night, in addition to the after-meals daily 
allowance, will prevent bladder and prostatic irritations and 
kidney insufficiency, and kidney insufficiency is responsible 
for so many disorders caused by retained kidney-wastes. 
If you agree with me as to the indispensable functions of water 
in preventing disease, let us by no means overlook the yet 
more powerful service which it renders those who are helpless 
from disease. It is truly marvelous how many disordered con- 
ditions of the body can be regulated or dissipated by the proper 
use of water water for the proper elimination of waste 
products; water for developing and maintaining a better 
resisting power to disease; water for a uniform distribution 
of food and medication ; water for lubrication of every particle 
participating in body life.* 




See table of Weights and Heights 




HOUSE O' MAN, SIR Page 29 



THE LIGHTING PLANT 

HOUSE O' MAN, SIR, has a wondrous 
lighting plant. It is located in the skull of 
man, and from it, through means of thou- 
sands of wires (nerves), the light and power 
of its activity pervades the entire machin- 
ery of the Plan. 

Two engineers are at the beck and call of 
the Master of the House. They are Good Spirit and Evil 
Spirit. The one is Harmony, the other Discord. 
Just why the Grand Architect elected to give to the 
tenant, Man, the choice between these two workmen has 
been a mystery. Though apparently sprung from the same 
source, and brothers by birth, they are like Cain and Abel, 
direct opposites in creed and deed. 

Good Spirit desires the House in radiant light, with his train 
of subjects led by Harmony. 

Evil Spirit commands a force of followers all his own his 
lieutenant is Discord. The two Spirits seem to be ever 
contending to control the Lighting Plant. 
Now, sir, if the Master of the House be wise, he will observe 
that the Good Spirit works well whenever the entire structure 
is clean. The Evil Spirit can exploit his followers more to his 
advantage when the body structure is diseased. 
So, if the Master or tenant of the House desires good power and 
light for the entire structure, he should direct his other servants 
of the House (vital organs) to render good service, each in his 
own functions, that the light and power of Harmony may 
prevail. 
" Let us have a Sound Body." 



Page 30 



THE PLAN 'O THE 



The Nerve Tension of the Body : This is the power or lack of 
power in the control of the functions of the various vital organs 
or " workmen " operating the machinery of the body. 
There are three grades of nerve tension that bodies possess: 

1. Above normal tension many. 

2. At normal tension few. 

3. Below normal tension many. 

Each of these grades depends upon the equilibrium or lack of 
equilibrium of nerve control of the vital organs. 
All animated beings, from the ant to the elephant, including 
man, monkey, and the " prohibitionist," live by alcohol. The 
active principle in all vegetable matter is alcohol, e. g. potatoes, 
rice, corn, rye, barley, wheat, fruits, herbs, even the grass 
of the field. (See Liver and Pancreas.) 





HOUSE O' MAN, SIR Page 31 

[VER AND PANCREAS (the sugar fac- 
tory and distillery). " Doc, what 's the 
matter with her?" asked the old maid 
rural gossip. " Well, Miss Pekin," the old 
man drawled, " ef I was to tell ye in Latin 
ye wouldn't understand; but in plain 
English, hit 's none o' your dambizness." 
Now, reader, if you were to ask me the functions of the 
liver and pancreas, enzymes and peptenzymes, and of glycogen, 
pancreatine, etc., and all about the parts that they play in the 
process of digestion and assimilation of food, you would n't 
understand if I told you; but in plain English, the Liver is a 
sugar factory and the Pancreas is a distillery; the two manage 
in some way to convert what we eat into the Elixir of Life, or 
alcohol, the consecrated wine of harmony, and that 's all that 
you and I need to know, unless we are going to study and 
try to be doctors (there are too many now,) or unless we are 
going to oppose the prohibition of alcohol and its uses. 
More wine for the body is prepared by this process than can be 
delivered without danger to the system. I mean most people eat 
and digest more than the system needs. The surplus, as waste, 
is passed on from the Dining Hall to the Garbage Can (cecum- 
appendix) the beginning of the great tube known in our Plan as 
the Sewer, Incinerator and Heating Plant. 
It has been well said that "A man takes his life in his hands 
when he sits down to the table." Too much food is intoxicating. 

1. If one eats too much, and one's liver and pancreas are work- 
ing well, the system receives too much alcohol and then one is 
above normal tension. 

2. If one happens to eat safely just enough for the body need, 
the system is at normal tension. 



Page 32 



THE PLAN O' THE 



3. If the liver and pancreas are not normal in function and 
can not furnish alcohol for the body maintenance, that body is 
below normal nerve tension. Convalescents from disease, low 
grades of fever and many nutritional disorders are below nor- 
mal nerve tension and need alcohol. 

Many people are below, many above, but few are at normal 
nerve tension. 

When the body is below, it may be called " sick.'* 
This class of bodies needs artificially prepared alcoholic doses 
until the liver and pancreas are revived for work. 




HOUSE O' MAN, SIR 



Page 33 




HE GARBAGE CAN, or "slop-jar" is 
in the right lower corner of the abdomen. 
The emptying of it each day is necessary, 
and this act is actually accomplished 
or is greatly facilitated by lying on the 
left side for at least a few minutes; 
better for one or two hours before rising 

"fc^ZJjggl^ ~i ~^^BU 1*f~~* f 

from the night's rest. 

I proclaim, sir, that this simple act assists Nature in transfer- 
ring the contents of this portion of the great tube (Garbage 
Can, Sewer, etc.) to the left side of the body for final exit by 
the descending colon. Don't say that you have always done 
this, because you have not. Read it again and see the reason. 
L This simple transfer from the right to the left side of the 
body prevents: 

1. Carrying during the hours of activity a weight of refuse 
bearing down on the Appendix. This weight of a fermenting, 
decomposing and heating mass is the chief cause of appendicitis.* 

2. The emptying of the ascending colon prevents the overtax- 
ing of the delicate muscular action of the entire colon. The doc- 
tors call this muscular action Peristalsis. Peristaltic action, 
when long abused by overstrain, leaves the tube relaxed or 
partially or totally paralyzed and the muscular lining of the 
tube is useless and only roused to action possibly by the judi- 
cious use of irrigation treatments and bowel stimulants, which 
are dangerous unless guardedly given by the skilled physician 
and by always lying on the left side in the morning. 

3. This transferring of wastes in the ascending colon each day 
prevents localized chemical heat-combustion and fermenta- 

\ \ 

* Scientific medicine men of late say thjat the cause is a bug yes, but 
don't let the bug of science breed in your) colon* 




Page 34 THE PLAN O' THE 

tion. The heat generated by this combustion should not be 
allowed to become " localized," but distributed along the track 
of the tube, which is the Sewer, Incinerator, and Heating Plant 
of the entire Plan (or the ascending, transverse, and descending 
colons). This tube is from five to seven feet in length. 

4. The inflation of the ascending colon with gases dilates the 
ascending colon, and, as shown above, tends to paralyze the 
muscular action of the tube; not only this, but where the tube 
bends to the left just under the Liver, undue pressure of gas 
shuts off the flow of bile from the Liver, causing retention of 
bile in the bile reservoir (Gall Bladder) ; this retention of bile 
causes the chemical components of the bile to crystallize into 
what are known and dreaded as " gall stones." 

This same retention of bile causes its re-absorption by the be- 
wildered Liver, causing systemic disorders. " Jaundice " is 
one, " hepatic infection " is another. The next is the 
surgeon's knife. 

The retention of the bile prevents the perfect action of the 
wonderful part that the Liver plays in its digestive function in 
conjunction with the Pancreas, and its equally remarkable 
function as a bowel antiseptic and laxative. 

5. The transfer of wastes in the colon from the right side of the 
body to the left side prevents absorption of toxins and bacteria 
from the fermenting mass, if it is detained in the ascending 
colon. For example, and there are many: 

There is a troublesome bug known as the colon bacillus. Al- 
though originating in the colon, it and its ravages are often 
manifested in the kidney and elsewhere in the body, showing 
that failure to empty the ascending colon has made this bacil- 
lus bold to enter other territory than that which it has already 
been permitted to usurp. Other toxic properties of the wastes 



HOUSE O' MAN, SIR Page 35 

in this ascending colon are absorbed into the system while 
waiting in the colon for clearance orders. For example: tonsil 
and gum troubles, " rheumatism," whatever that term means. 
This much-used term has never been denned so that any one 
could tell what was meant. It is usually thought to be some 
derangement of the " kidneys," of " teeth " or " tonsils." 
No one has successfully denned " rheumatism." So I have 
the right to attempt a definition: 

" Rheumatism," sir, is the effect here and there in the body of 
retained waste products that should have made exit from the 
body by the four eliminating organs (kidneys, bowels, skin 
and lungs). These are the four sewers mentioned in the Plan. 
We may have " rheumatism," due to absorption of wastes 
stagnating in the bowels, in the lungs, in the kidneys and in 
the skin. 

"Rheumatic" wastes usually lodge in the weakest point or 
weakest tissues of the body; here they cause pain, swelling, 
etc. The appendix, tonsils, eyes, joints, muscles, or any organ or 
tissue in the body may be " rheumatic." 
Indeed, you and I do not see why one can not truthfully say 
that any and all congestions and inflammations are " rheu- 
matism " of this or that or the other organ. 
There are to be known three classes of wastes that cause 
trouble if retained in your body or mine; the daily normal 
wastes from combustion of body tissues, infection wastes, 
such as disease wastes, (typhoid fever, diphtheria, etc.) and 
accidental wastes, such as drugs and poisons. 
" Rheumatism " is a good name for faulty elimination, but 
" X " is just as good and a lot shorter. 



Page 36 



THE PLAN O' THE 





Handy Tools and Ideas in Con- 
nection With The Plan 

ASTOR OIL is the broom that cleanses the 
food course by sweeping it. Its benign ef- 
fects are as divinely efficient and happy as 
its taste is diabolical and generally de- 
spised. 

Mineral Oil is efficacious. It is on the 
market as Liquid Petrolatum, " nujol," 
etc., etc. It should be clear white, tasteless, and odorless. It has 
many uses in the hands of a sensible doctor, and a foolish one 
can do little harm with it. Use it but turn to the left side each 
morning otherwise it or any other cathartic is a joke. 
Many cases of " rheumatism," " sciatica " and other systemic 
pains have been relieved by and prevented by the judicious 
use of a good Castor Oil or Mineral Oil. Because many such 
disorders are due to retained wastes in the colon, easily swept 
out if the colon be well oiled and Nature further assisted by 
proper position in sleep. 

Castor Oil is needed, and needed quickly too when there is 
pain or griping in the abdomen the Dining Hall (see Plan) 
after eating bad food, food that has been badly cooked, or not 
digested or not ripe, or too old, etc. 

Never take a " pain reliever " until you have first taken the 
oil. Always demand cold-pressed oil. 
The best way to take Castor Oil: 
1. Take a conical wine glass. 

. Place in the bottom two teaspoonfuls of simple syrup. 
(Druggist) 



HOUSE O' MAN, SIR Page 37 

3. Pour on this syrup one, two or four tablespoonfuls of Castor 
Oil. It floats. 

4. On top of this float two to three teaspoonfuls of good whiskey. 
Don't use wine, soda water or beer, or orange juice or slops; 
use the best whiskey.* 

Swallow without allowing the mixture to touch the upper lip. 
"CALOMEL " acts on the bowels by " uncorking " the liver 
and producing a flow of bile. Calomel is often needed, but much 
abused. 

" PILLS " act on the bowels by irritating Nature beyond her 
patience, and her every effort is brought to bear to rid the sys- 
tem of the " horrid mess " through the bowels. 
Ungoverned and persistent use of " pills " is " inhumanity to 
man " and an insult to Nature. Pills are often needed but the 
doctor should decide when to use them. 

No case of chronic constipation has ever been or ever will be 
" cured " by the daily use of "pills" alone. Proper position in 
sleeping hours is necessary for proper action of any cathartic. 
SALINES assist Nature. They are not necessary, however, 
and they too, should be prescribed by competent authority. 
C Salines (salts, cathartic waters) act by washing the food- 
ways and should be used occasionally. 
Bowel Irrigation, or Enemata. For usefulness all enemata 
(bowel injection) should be by low pressure, and should wash 
the entire colon from anus to appendix. (See plates) Two quarts 
of warm, (sterile water) will be sufficient quantity. 
The sterile water is obtained by boiling and then cooled to 
desired temperature by standing. The patient should lie down 
on the back slightly inclined to the right. 



* If the patient be a " prohi," don't use whiskey; let him suffer 



Page 38 THE PLAN O' THE 

The water container should be hung not over two feet above 
the body line. 

The nozzle used should not be over two to three inches long. 
It should be dipped in mineral or other clean oil before inserting. 
The water should be allowed to take its course slowly upward 
through the rectum, the descending colon, across the body 
through the transverse colon, then downward through the 
ascending colon to the appendix on the right side to the "Gar- 
bage Can," the "Slop- Jar," the "Danger-Bag" no name is 
too bad for it, if not emptied each morning. 
The colon flushing through the long rubber tube now in use by 
nurses and surgeons should be tabooed as barbarous and dan- 
gerous. 

The one-half to one pint enema and the colon tube are 
often conducive to "hemorrhoids," "rectal abscesses", etc., etc. 
No authorized doctor or nurse will use the long colon tube 
except in extreme emergency. Others should be arrested. 
NIGHT AIR AND OUTDOOR SLEEPING. All air after 
sunset is " night air." But the night air outside most bedrooms 
is clean and safe. Temperatures may "be considered. 
But why sleep outdoors when it is possible to have a clean 
bedroom? The air will be the same. 

It is the lint from clothing and draperies and from bedclothes 
and carpets and the dust and dirt of the day we fetch in at 
night which makes sleeping indoors dangerous it is not 
" night air." 

We never see this air filth until the sun shines through the 
window in the morning. It is too late then to think of the 
damage it has done, during the night, to the delicate air 
passages. 
I suspect that you had better sleep outdoors. 



HOUSE O' MAN, SIR Page 39 

All people have a dollar's worth of lungs. Most people of seden- 
tary life and lazy habits use only a nickel's worth. 
" Red blood " is red because of the oxygen taken into the 
circulation, through breathing oxygen of the air not 
because of iron tonics. 

The more oxygen in the air, and the more one inhales it, the 
redder the blood becomes. Good food, water and air make the 
body-strength. 

"Iron tonics" do not redden one's blood I don't know what iron 
does to the blood and I don't know any one who does know.* 
( The black, venous blood that pours from the liver of a 
slaughtered ox immediately turns scarlet from exposure to the 
air. So does your blood become scarlet when you breathe in 
the air to the lungs, after your venous stream returns thro the 
liver to the lungs. 

Why buy " iron " when the air is free? 

THE LUNGS A SEWER ALSO. Forcibly exhale breath from 
the lungs on a cold piece of glass, the water condensed there, is 
ladened with dead wastes which should not remain in the lung 
cells. Then it would be a good thing to forcibly empty the 
lungs daily; indeed, just as important to relieve this sewer of 
its burden of waste and dead material as it is to flush the other 
three sewers, the skin, the bowels and kidneys. 
Nature assists the fool, the laggard and the sick man in reliev- 
ing the lungs of some of these dangerous wastes by making him 
sigh, cough, yawn or hiccough. 

When you wash A your teeth in the morning, after your tub 
bath, you are not clean until the lungs have exhaled the stag- 
nant accretions of the night, nor yet until the bowels and kid- 
neys have voided their excretions. 



* Anyway we get it from food 
A I said " wash " not brush 



Page 40 THE PLAN O' THE 

Exercise, like eating, is often overdone. Many of us exercise 
the wrong end of the body by too much leg exercise and not 
enough for the muscles of the chest, back and abdomen. Exer- 
cise from the hips up clear up under your hat. 
A simple and effective exercise for the ordinary man, who is 
not a laborer nor an athlete, is suggested: About twice a day 
stand heel to heel, toes ten inches apart, eyes on picture rail. 
Begin with arms straight by the thighs and raise arms to back 
of ears, keeping them parallel in every upward movement, 
then extend arms straight outward from the shoulders then 
turn palms downward, exhaling through the mouth. Repeat 
five to ten times night and morning. Select the best air possi- 
ble. Never exercise the lungs in dust, or smoke or clothes lint. 
Inhale through nostrils with this upward movement Exhale 
through the mouth. 

MINERAL WATERS* are not necessary to health. Pure water 
is, if procurable. If not, drink the best to be had and drink as 
directed : one-half to one glass on sitting down at table, no more 
during the meal. One to three glasses during the third and 
fourth hours after meals and one glass during the night Is that 
plain to you? 

SOAP. Use soap sparingly. Wash it off with plenty of water. 
Washing the skin is often a fad. Many a body bathed with 
soap and water is rotten inside. The skin is only one of the four 
sewers that carry off the waste products of the body. Don't 
forget the other three bowels, lungs, kidneys. 
THE TOWEL is a dryer. Use it as a blotter, seldom as a rubber. 
Blotting takes out local poisons; rubbing may drive them in. 
THE SEWERS of the body are the lungs, the skin, the kidneys 
and the bowels. They eliminate the natural, the diseased and 



Some are valuable in effecting " cures " 



HOUSE O' MAN, SIR 



Page 41 



the accidental waste products. " Natural wastes " such as we 
all have; "disease wastes " such as come from fevers and various 
blood poisons; " accidental wastes " such as drugs, medicines, 
and other substances introduced into the blood, which are 
foreign substances. 

You can't flush sewers without water. If regular flushing is 
desired, water must be used regularly by your own volition. 
There are no brains in the belly. 

THE TEETH. The best way to keep the teeth in good condi- 
tion is to let them alone ; pay more attention to the preceding 
pages (position in sleep) of the book, and keep the mouth clean 
with plain water. Wash thoroughly before and after eating. 
Use the teeth at meals only keep food out of the mouth 
between meals. If your teeth are diseased, may the Lord and 
the dentist help you. 

Please don't tear the gums loose with a tooth brush. All tooth 
brushes are, or will be dirty. 
THE NAILS. Finger and toe, trim, wash and dry. That 's all ! 




Page 42 



THE PLAN O' THE 





USED IN THE PLAN 



Use a Nail Here 

Beer is a beverage not a Medicine, 

Water is an Essential to Health. 

You take your life in your hands when you go to Eat. 

Halt! and Study The Plan o' the House o' Man, Sir, and Count your 

calories, see back of book, Best Part. 

Drive this nail home: If necessary, get your monkey wrench busy. 

The Plan is not designed to " Raise your pay" But 

To Raise your Physical Comfort, Working Value, and your U-S-E-F-U-L- 

N-E-S-S. 

Your employer, or your Business will " Raise your Pay/' 

Now tighten up all bolts along the waterway. 

Drink water Properly " properly," I said. 

For three purposes: 

To Carry Food and its waste products to destination. 

To flush the four sewers of the body (The bowels, the kidneys, the skin and 

the lungs). 

To lubricate all organs, all joints, all muscles, all nerves, all cells. 

Get your Stillson wrenches here, you may have to loosen up some of the 
pipe-line. 

There are/our sewers in the Body and only/our Bowels, Kidneys, Skin, Lungs. 
You can't flush sewers without water Regular Drinking means Regular 
Flushing. 

Use two bolts here. 

The Heart, the old pump. 

Never lie on your left side while the stomach is loaded with water, medicine, 
food or fermenting food generating gas; the heart resents the act, and you 
are directly opposing its delicate poise and function and too, you are oppos- 
ing the Law of Motion. Left Side in the Morning, every day. 



HOUSE O' MAN, SIR Page 43 

Use a twenty-penny nail here, drive clear thro and clinch it. . 

IS N'T THIS TRUE, DOCTOR ? 

We sustain our bodies mainly by the alcohols made from our breadstuffs 
thro the wondrous action of the mouth and stomach juices and by the 
equally wondrous work of the liver and pancreas. 

These organs get " sick" too, sometimes, or get tired and can not work. The 
good doctor will substitute for the disabled organs and body the hand-made 
alcohol in shape of brandy, whiskey, wine. 

Tack this one on the dome. 

Don't think that you will never need a doctor because you may, but A doc- 
tor's advice will be enhanced in value 1.000% by your following The Plan 
o' the House o' Man, Sir. 

P.S. " Lissen," Pills and cathartics will not act properly unless you turn 
to your left side each morning, sick or well. Is that Plain? 

Nail this well and strong. 

Begin Today: Count your Calories. Drink Water. 
Sleep All properly. 

GET THE HABIT THANKS. 



STANDARD WEIGHTS AND HEIGHTS 

MEN WOMEN 


Height Age 20 


Age 30 


Age 40 


Age 55 Height Age 20 


Age 30 


Age 40 Age 55 


50 


114 


121 


125 


128 


A 9 


100 


105 


110 


118 


51 


117 


124 


129 


132 


410 


103 


108 


113 


121 


52 


121 


128 


133 


136 


411 


106 


111 


117 


125 


53 


124 


132 


137 


140 


50 


109 


115 


120 


128 


54 


128 


136 


141 


145 


51 


112 


118 


124 


132 


55 


132 


140 


145 


149 


52 


116 


122 


128 


136 


56 


136 


144 


149 


153 


53 


119 


126 


132 


140 


57 


140 


148 


154 


158 


54 


123 


129 


136 


145 


58 


144 


153 


158 


163 


55 


126 


133 


140 


149 


59 


149 


157 


163 


167 


56 


130 


137 


144 


153 


510 


153 


162 


168 


172 


57 


134 


141 


148 


158 


511 


158 


167 


173 


177 


58 


138 


1*46 


153 


163 


60 


162 


172 


178 


183 


59 


143 


150 


157 


167 


61 


167 


177 


183 


188 


510 


147 


154 


162 


172 


62 


172 


182 


189 


194 


511 


151 


159 


167 


177 


63 


177 


188 


195 


200 


60 


156 


164 


172 


183 



The book is ended. The balance is borrowed. 
Reader, measure and study the proportions as recorded 
above. If you be lacking in symmetry, or the desire for health 
and do not know what to do, turn back these pages and read 
again The Plan o y the House o' Man, Sir. 



CALORIES 



I have taken the liberty of abridging this Table of Food 
Values purloined from Diet And Health by Dr. Lulu Hunt 
Peters (Los Angeles) published by Reilly & Lee Co., Chicago. 
C. I do not discuss diet in The Plan o" the House o' Man, Sir. 
Dr. Hunt does that better. than any one else can. She does not 
" abridge." All about diet for the FAT and the LEAN is there 
in her book. The book teaches; it is highly entertaining; there 's 
a smile or more on each page; it is humorous. I don't know what 
the little book costs but it's worth it. THE AUTHOR. 

"CALORIES" or Food Values 

Calory, is the measure unit of food value ; x would do just as Well. 

FOODS are either, MEAT (proteins), FAT (hydro-carbons) 

or VEGETABLE (carbo-hydrates). Select your meals to fit 

your weight and your occupation. 

" In Round Numbers For The Day " Hunt 

Child Per day CALORIES 

2-6 years 1000-1600 

6-12 1600-2500 

12-18 2500-3000 

Man Per day 

At rest 1800-2000 

Sedentary 2200-2800 

Working 3500-4000 

Woman Per day 

At rest 1600-1800 

Sedentary (bookkeeper, etc.) 2000-2200 

Standing, walking, labor, housekeeping 2200-2500 
Requiring strength, laundering, etc. 2500-3000 

.(adapted from Rose) 



Page 46 CALORIES 

FOODS AND THEIR CALORIC VALUES 

Say you want 

2500 calories per day, you should figure on Meats 10%, 

Fats 25% and Vegetable foods 65%. 

Average Helpings of MEAT CALORIES 

Chicken roast, lean beefsteak 185 

Tenderloin beef, boiled ham, turkey 250 

Frankfurters, lobster, oysters, clams 100 
Lamb, mutton, pork chops, and fish if fat be eaten 150-300 

Bacon, crisp 25 

Fried Ham, 3 oz. 400 

Sausage small 60 

Average Helpings of DAIRY PRODUCTS and EGGS 

Beef roast, very lean 150 

Fish lean 135 

Butter 120 

Cheeses, whipped cream, sweet'd condensed milk 100 

Whole milk 160 

Skimmed milk, buttermilk, one large egg 80 

Cream, one tablespoon 50 

Average Helpings of VEGETABLE FOODS 

Asparagus, beets, carrots 

Beans, home baked 300 

Beans, canned, Lima , 145 

Beans, string, celery, radishes 15 

Cabbage, cucumber, lettuce 10 

Corn, canned, green peas, potatoes, potato chips 100 

Corn on ear, 1 large 100 

Parsnips, spinach, squash, turnips 25 

Sweet potato lj^ oz. 200 

Tomato 1 large 50 



CALORIES Page 47 

Average Helpings of FRUITS (Vegetable) CALORIES 
Apple 1 large, peach, orange 50 
Banana 1 large, berries sm. cup, cantaloupe J^, 
cherries sm. cup, grapes sm. bunch, pine- 
apple, fresh, 2 slices 1 inch thick 100 
Lemon, av. size, plum 1 large, prune 1 large dry 30 
Pear, av. size 90 
Watermelon, large slice 15 
Dates, 1 large dry 25 
Figs, 1 large dry 65 
Prunes 4 stewed and juice eaten 200 

Average Helpings of BREADS (Vegetable) 

Brown, 1 slice, corn bread, lj/2 oz. Victory Bread 100 

Vienna roll 1 100 

Zweibach 1 slice, Graham crackers 1 35 

Oyster crackers 24 100 

Soda cracker 1, pretzel 1 25 

Average Helpings of BREAKFAST FOODS, etc. (Vegetable) 

CALORIES 

Farina, cream of wheat, force, puffed rice 60 

Grapenuts, oatmeal, boiled rice 100 
Grriddle cakes (without syrup and butter) 3 

macaroni and cheese, waffles 1 225-300 

Muffin, av. size 1 125 

CANDY, PASTRIES, and SWEETS, (Fats and Vegetable) 

CALORIES 

Chocolate cream 1 medium, cocoanut caramel 100 
Candied cherries 10, chocolate nut caramel, other 

candies, reckon the sugar and nuts 1 piece 100 

Cookies, lady fingers, macaroons 35-50 



Page 48 CALORIES 

CANDY, PASTRIES, etc. (continued) CALORIES 
Doughnut 1 160 
Gingersnap 1 20 
Pie av. help. % pie with crust, pie without, pud- 
dings av. help., ice cream, cakes 200-250-300 
(depends on size, icing, fruits, nuts, etc.) 
and SAUCES 

Average Helpings of CONDIMENTS (Fats, vegetable, etc.) 

CALORIES 

Mayonnaise 200 

Olive oil and other oils 1 des. spoonful 100 

Olives, 1 olive, tomato catsup 10-15 

Thick gravies 2 tablespoonfuls 100 

NUTS (Vegetable, Fats) 

Almonds 1 10 

Brazil nut 1, walnut 1, each 30-45 

Chestnuts 1 sm. 5 

Peanuts 10 large double 100 

Cocoanut, prepared ^ oz. peanut butter 2 % teasp. 100 










to 

tO 
CD 





3 

O 

10 

. 



Oi 

*Ji 
Hi 






S 
! H 



Uniyersity of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Uder Pat. "Rel . late File" 
Made bj LIBRARY BUREAU 



