

TRIED AND TESTED 

RECIPES 






A Collection of the Favorite and Choicest Recipes Used and 

Contributed by 

IDA MCKINLEY TENT NO. 21 

NATIONAL ALLIANCE 
DAUGHTERS OF VETERANS 

Department of Illinois 



1921 






Qur 777 J //f /> not only fJie dest> 
food /'or the 6 a by: dut ^et^ 
the whole /amlly c/nnk ^t g^e/yerouslyi 
Uhey u//// enjoy better health as a result 
NATOMA- HUNTLEY DAIRY CO. 



MILK - CREAM - BUTTER 



TELEPHONE OAK PARK 202G 

MAIN OFFICE 1124 WILLIAMS ST 

OAK PARK. ILU 



TELEPHONE- - -WEST i35S 
234-2-46 -WEST ADAMS SX 

CHICAGO ILL: 



iiiiiii 





TRIED AND TESTED 

RECIPES 






A Collection of the Favorite and Choicest Recipes Used and 

Contributed by 

IDA MCKINLEY TENT NO. 21 

NATIONAL ALLIANCE 
DAUGHTERS OF VETERANS 

Department of Illinois 



1921 





f^ 



If 



■\nA 



THIS RECIPE IS WARRANTED 
"TO COOK A HUSBAND" 

In selecting your husband, you should not be guided by the silvery 
appearance, as in buying mackerel, nor by the golden tint, as if you 
wanted salmon. Be sure to select him yourself, as tastes differ. Do not 
go to market for him, as the best come to your door. It is far better to 
have none unless you patiently learn how to cook and serve him. They 
are easily spoiled by mismanagement. Do not begin as if they were blad- 
ders and "blow them up." Do not keep them "in hot water," or let them 
"freeze" by carelessness. It is not well to "keep them in a stew," neither 
would I advise "roasting them." Some keep them in "pickle" all their 
lives. No husband will be tender and good managed in such ways, but 
they are really delicious when properly treated. 

Like crabs and lobsters you have to cook them while alive. So wrap 
one in linen nicely washed, and having the required number of buttons 
and strings tightly sewed on, tie him in the preserving kettle with the 
strong silk cord called "comfort," as the one called "duty" is apt to be 
weak, and it is needful to prevent the husband flying out and becoming 
burned or crusty. Make a clear, steady fire out of love, neatness and 
cheerfulness. Set him as near this as seems to agree with him. If he 
sputters and fizzes do not be anxious, some husbands do this till they are 
quite done. Try a little sugar in the form called by confectioners kisses, 
but on no account use either vinegar, or pepper. A little spice improves 
them, but must be used with judgment. Do not stick him with any 
sharp instrument to see if he is becoming tender; you cannot fail to know 
when he is done to a turn. 

Thus treated, you will find him digestible, agreeing nicely with you and 
the children, and he will keep as long as you want, vmless you become care- 
less and set him in too cold a place. 



g)CI.A6278:i3 
m 21 1921 



'Vi.-o. 



ROSTER OF TENT NO. 21 

OFFICERS 

AUce Wakelee President 

Mate Deubler Senior Vice President 

Stella Simpson Junior Vice President 

Mildred Olson Patriotic Instructor 

Kathryn Cameron Chaplain 

Esther Clemenson ^ Secretary 

Constance Totten Treasurer 

Maude Lattan Council Member 

Ida Clemenson Council Member 

Ida Lorraine Hess Council Member 

Frances Godfrey Guide 

Matilda Whitehead Guard 

Grace Blume Assistant Guard 

Marie Johnson Color Bearer No. I 

Mildred Wakelee Color Bearer No. 2 

Lura Sutton >■ Color Bearer No. 3 

Maude Lattan Color Bearer No. 4 

Ida L. Hess Press Correspondent 



MEMBERS 



Sue Wiemerslage 
Cora Rehm 
Or.via Sholes 
Mary Kirven 
Ada Rehling 
Mabel Lattan 
Emma Wedeking 
Netta Moyer 
Ida Markham 
Jessie Libke 
Mary F. Carlisle 
Anna Broadrick 
Lottie Ferry 
Mary Gardner 
Anna Hazen 



Winnie Sholes 
Lillian Wright 
Georgine Broadrick 
Ernestine Jorgenson 
Minnie Pearce 
Lulu Mae Higgins 
Zella Wakelee 
Georgia Glenn 
Edith Benson 
Fern Koven 
Adelaide Sisson 
Nora Walton 
Lucille Walton 
Katheryn Fields 
Luella Washburn 



MUFFINS, BISCUITS and BREADS 

PEANUT BUTTER BREAD 

2 cups flour, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 cup peanut butter, 1 cup milk, ^ cup sugar and 2 eggs. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl, add peanut butter and 
sugar and mix. Beat eggs and milk together, add to flour and mix well. 
Put in greased loaf pan and bake in moderate over 30 to 35 minutes. 
This is best when a day old. Cut in thin slices, it makes very good 
sandwiches. 

Alice Wakelee, President Tent No. 21. 



FAIRY BISCUITS 

Boil 2 medium sized potatoes, mash and beat. While warm 
add 1 cup milk, 1 yeast cake, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon butter, pinch 
salt, flour enough to make quite stiff. 

If set at 10 a. m. put in pans at 2 p. m. Roll an inch thick, and 
cut with a small biscuit- cutter. Bake ten (10) minutes in a 
moderate oven at 6 p. m. — Mrs. C. E. Whitehead. 

WHEAT MUFFINS 

1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Calumet baking 
powder, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon melted butter, milk as needed. 

Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt, and add the 
beaten eggs and melted butter. Use enough sweet milk to make 
a soft thick batter. Grease the muffin tins and heat them in oven, 
before putting in the dough. Bake in a quick oven from 20 to 25 
minutes. — Zella Wakelee. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

2 cups of oatmeal. Scald with 1 quart of boiling water and let 
cool. Add 1 cake of yeast (dissolved), 1 tablespoon of lard, >4 cup 
of molasses, 1 teaspoon of salt and 2 teaspoons of sugar. Stiffen 
with white flour. 

Let rise, put in pan and let rise again before baking. Bake in 
moderate oven. — Drusilla Ingalls Thayer. 



POTATO ROLLS 

3 small potatoes boiled and mashed, 1 cup warm milk, ^ cake 
yeast, 2 eggs well beaten, 2 tablespoons lard, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 
tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, flour to knead. 

Put sugar, butter and lard in the warm milk. Let cool and add 
to the yeast. Knead into a hard dough. If you wish the rolls for 
dinner start them at 1 1 a. m. Roll out at 4 p. m. an inch thick. Let 
rise again until 5 :30. Bake for dinner. 

• — Marie Johnson. 



MUFFINS 

y^ cup butter, V^ cup sugar, .y^ cup sweet milk, 1 egg, pinch of 
salt, 2 cups flour and 3 teaspoons Calumet baking powder. Beat 
well and bake in quick oven. — Constance Tottcn. 

BROWN BREAD 

2 cups brown sugar mixed with 2 teaspoons cocoa, 2 eggs, then 
add 3 cups buttermilk or sour milk, 2 cups white flour, 3 cups graham 
flour, 1 cup rasins, ^^ cup walnuts (cut up), 1^ teaspoons baking 
soda, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder. 

Dissolve soda in sour milk and sift baking powder in white 
flour. Bake in two good-sized bread tins 1 hour and fifteen 
minutes. — Maude Lattan. 

EMERGENCY NUT BREAD 

yo cup sugar, white or brown, 1}^ cups milk, ^4 teaspoon salt, 
1 teaspoon shortening, 3^^ cups flour, 4 level teaspoons Calumet bak- 
ing powder, ^ cup nuts. 

Warm the milk before adding. Use perhaps Yi cup extra flour in 
kneading the loaf quickly and thoroughly before putting in pan. Let 
stand 20 minutes, and bake slowly an hour. 

— Cora Rehm. 

QUICK SALLIE LUNN 

1 cup confectioners' sugar, ^ cup butter, creamed ; add 2 eggs, 
beaten well ; stir in 1 pint sweet milk with sufficient flour to make 
batter stifif as cake; 3 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder. Bake 
and eat hot for tea or breakfast. — Mildred Olson. 

NUT BREAD 

2 cups flour, Yi cup sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, 2 level teaspoons 
Calumet baking powder, Y^ cup walnuts, % cup milk and 1 tgg. 

Sift dry ingredients together. Add nuts chopped not too fine, 
then add milk until you have a soft dough. Put into small greased 
loaf pan. Allow to stand 20 minutes and bake in moderate oven 
about -40 minutes. — Mildred Olson. 

BRAN, OR HEALTH BREAD 

2 cups bran, 1 cup flour, ^ cup sugar or molasses, 1 teaspoon salt, 
Yz cup raisins or more, 1^ cups sour milk, ^ teaspoor. soda &nd 1 tgg. 
Mix in order given. Make one loaf or twelve muffins. 

— Mrs. Cameron. 

CORN BREAD 

1^ cups corn meal, Ya cup flour, 3 level teaspoons Calumet baking 
powder, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, Ij^ cups milk, 2 table- 
spoons shortening and 2 eggs. 

Mix the dry ingredients in bowl, add milk and melted shortening, 
beat well and pour into well greased pan or muffin tins and bake in 
hot over about 25 minutes. 

—Mrs. C. E. Whitehead. 



MEAT DISHES 

BEEF LOAF 

3 pounds of beef, ground ; ^ pound of salt pork, ground ; 2 eggs, 
Yt. loaf of moistened bread crumbs. 

Mix thoroughly. Put one-half the ingredients in a baking pan; 
peel four or five hard-boiled eggs and place lengthwise on the meat. 
Add the rest of the meat to form the loaf. Bake about an hour and a 
quarter. — Ida Clemenson. 

SWISS STEAK 

Have steak from the round cut rather thick. Pound as much 
flour into it as possible and season with salt and pepper. Have fat 
in the pan piping hot. Brown on both sides, then add small quantity 
of water. Keep closely covered and simmer slowly an hour. This 
is very tender and good. — Fern Koven. 

SWEET SOUR MEAT 

Cold meat, 1 large potato, salt and pepper to taste, 2 ounces seed- 
less raisins, 1 bay leaf, ]A, teaspoon ground cloves, about 2 teaspoons 
vinegar. 

This is a good meal quickly made from left-over soup meat or 
roast. Boil the potato and when almost done cut up small. Add 
seasoning, raisins and ground meats. Add the potato water and boil 
all together a few minutes, then add vinegar to suit the taste and 
serve hot. — Netta Moyer. 

FILLED SPARERIBS 

Take fresh spareribs, salt and pepper them. Cut several apples in 
small pieces, add a little sugar and put them on the ribs. Roll the 
ribs and tie fast with a cord, roasting them in the oven till brown. 
Add spices to the gravy to suit taste. — Netta Moyer. 

DELICIOUS VEAL 

Take a round bone veal steak, cut off fat and bone and cut into 
pieces desired for serving. Dip in ^gg and crumbs and fry in iron 
frying pan until a light brown on both sides. Cover pan, turn flame 
low and cook for about 10 minutes. Pour over enough milk to cover 
meat and bake in oven till milk has cooked away, nearly an hour. 
Always season crumbs before breading any meat. 

— Hazel L. Riley. 
HAM LOAF 
Xy-i pounds raw ham chopped, 1^4 pounds round steak chopped, Yi 
pound lean fresh pork chopped, 2 well beaten eggs, 1 cup grated 
bread crumbs. 

Mix the three kinds of meat thoroughly, add the eggs, the crumbs, 
and press into a loaf. Bake one hour. This loaf requires no seasoning. 

— Constance Totten. 
BAKED HAM 
Boil a 14-pound ham 1^^ hours. Make a dough of flour and 
water, roll out to ^ inch thickness. Sprinkle brown sugar generously 
over the dough and wrap ham in it to flavor ham and keep the juices 
in. Bake in a medium oven 1^ hours. 

— Comrade H. E. Colbin. 



GIVE THE CHILDREN MORE MILK 
PERFECTLY PASTEURIZED— COUNTRY BOTTLED 

THE PERFECT FOOD 

FOR HEALTH, GROWTH AND STRENGTH 

BOWMAN DIARY COMPANY 

AUSTIN DISTRIBUTING STATION 
5835 - 39 W. Lake St. Telephone Austin 152 



VEAL LOAF 
(Serve with Creole Sauce) 
1^ pounds ground veal shoulder, 1 slice salt pork (ground), 1 cup 
bread or cracker crumbs, 1 egg, ^ cup milk 1 teaspoon salt. 
Mix well and form into loaf. Bake about one hour. 

— Stella Simpson. 

AMERICAN CHOP SUEY 

1 pound pork from shoulder, 1 pound veal from leg, 1 small teaspoon 
salt, 2 tablespoons N. O. molasses, 1 cup sliced onions, 2 cups celery. 

Cut meat into small pieces, add salt and molasses, and fry slowly 
for y2 hour or 40 minutes. Slice the onions and cut celery into inch 
lengths, then put with the meat and fry 20 minutes or more, adding a 
little flour occasionally, and thin with a little water. Use chop suey 
sauce if preferred. Serve with boiled rice. — Hazel L. Riley. 

BEEF LOAF 

1 pound rare beef chopped fine, 3 crackers rolled and sifted, a large 
cup of canned tomato, 1 egg well beaten. 

Mix the meat, cracker, egg and flavoring until thoroughly blended. 
Form into a loaf by pressing tightly in a bowl and turn into a but- 
tered tin. Put a little butter over it and pour on the whole the canned 
tomato. Bake three-fourths of an hour, basting frequently with the 
tomato. Serve cold. ■ — M. A. Deubler. 



PHONE AUSTIN 1438 




BERTHA H. ROSS 




MILLINERY 




5840 W. Chicago Ave. 


. Austin-Chicago 



Henry F. Hulseberg 


Geo. J. Hulseberg 


HULSEBERG BROS. 




GROCERY AND MARKET 




Tel. Austin 74 


5800 Chicago Ave. ' 



FORCE MEAT BALLS 
1 cup suet chopped fine, 3 cups bread crumbs (fine), pinch of 
salt, 1 tablespoon of parsley, 2 well beaten eggs, 1 tablespoon flour and 
1 of milk. Form into balls the size of a large walnut. Place around 
a veal roast and bake % of an hour. — Anna Broadrick. 

VIRGINIA HAM 

Place medium sized ham in kettle large enough so it can be 
entirely covered with water. Keep to a slow boiling point until tender. 
Let stand in liquid until cold. Then remove the rind and stick whole 
cloves over the entire surface. Sprinkle 1 cup of brown sugar over 
the whole ham. Put in baking pan. Take some of the liquid in 
which it was boiled and pour over the top. Bake until it is nicely 
browned. — Ida Loraine Hess. 

REHEAT POT ROAST, YORKSHIRE 

Cut the meat in thin slices. Make three cupfuls of brown gravy, 
placing the meat in the gravy to heat. Place in a bowl 1 cupful flour, 
Yi cupful cornmeal, 1 teaspoon salt, 4 level teaspoons Calumet baking 
powder, 2 tablespoons molasses, 2 tablespoons shortening and 1% cup- 
fuls water. 

Mix in the order given, beating smoothly. Bake irx a well greased 
square or oblong pan in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. 
Remove from the pan while hot. Cut in squares. Lay on the heated 
slices of meat. Pour over the gravy and garnish with parsley. 

—Mrs. C. E. Whitehead. 



MEATLESS DISHES 

CHEESE LOAF 

Yi pound cheese, Yi pound boiled ham, 2 heaping cups bread 
crumbs, 1 cup milk. 

Line bottom of ramekins with sliced green olives, salt and pepper 
to taste. Bake about three-quarters hour in moderate oven. 

Dressing: Small can tomatoes, 1 onion, salt, pepper and butter; 
cook and strain. Thicken with cornstarch to make a thick cream sauce. 

— A Sister. 

SALMON LOAF 

1 can salmon chopped, Yj cup bread crumbs, 4 tablespoons melted 
butter, 3 eggs beaten, juice of 1 lemon. Season with salt and pepper. 

Mix well together. Butter mold and steam one hour. Serve with 
cream gravy. —Maude Lattan. 

MEXICAN RICE 

3 slices bacon, 1 small onion, 1 can tomato soup, Y'^ cup rice, 1 
sweet green pepper, salt and pepper to taste. 

Cut bacon fine. Add finely chopped onion and fry together till 

a golden brown. Add to this the tomato soup, rice and chopped 

pepper and let all simmer slowly till the rice is tender. If the rice 

dries out, add a little water. This will serve four people at luncheon. 

■ — Minnie A. Custer, Department Inspector. 

ITALIAN DELIGHT 

Y2 pound spaghetti, Y- pound Hamburg steak, 1 can condensed 
tomato soup, Ya cup olive oil, ^ cup grated cheese, 1 onion, 1 bell 
pepper, 1^ teaspoons salt, cayenne pepper and paprika to taste. 

Cook spaghetti in boiling salted water. Chop the onion and pepper 
fine, and fry in olive oil till the onions are golden brown. Add the 
tomato soup, salt, paprika and cayenne. When thoroughly heated stir 
in cheese well melted, then add the spaghetti and lastly the Hamburg, 
which should be thinned out with a little cold water to prevent its 
cooking in lumps. Stir over the fire for five minutes and turn into 
a baking dish. Sprinkle with grated cheese and bake twenty minutes. 

—Mabel E. Lattan. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

Select nice firm tomatoes. Cut a slice from the top and care- 
fully remove the centers, taking care not to break the tomato. Break 
3 eggs in a bowl and add 3 tablespoons bread crumbs, ^ teaspoon 
salt, Ya teaspoon paprika. Beat well to mix and pour into the tomatoes. 
Place in a baking dish and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 

Make a sauce with the pulp that was removed from the tomatoes, 
rubbed through a fine sieve, and added to 1 tablespoon butter, J^ tea- 
spoon salt, a pinch of paprika, 1 teaspoon parsley ai.d 2 tablespoons 
water. Place in a saucepan and when it comes to a boil pour over the 
baked tomatoes. —Mrs. C. E. Whitehead. 

11 





o 






o 






< 






o 






l-H 






ffi 






u 




H 






H 2 












^ ^ 
& § 




oo 
c 


•^ § 




3 
< 


l-H 






^ (^ 






MA 

ESCRI 






P^ g 


O 




o " 


CO 

I— 1 




fe 


Q 
00 

VD 
in 





Phone Columbus 2334 




IVY 


The Waller Hat Shop 




Gift Shop 

5679 West 


5680 W. MADISON ST, 




Madison St. 


Eleanor Meehan Chicago, 111. 




Phone 
Austin 6064 

Hand 
Painted 
China 
Pictures and 






Axel Nelson Roy A. Nelson 




Nelson's Booterie, Inc. 




Framing 


5848 W. CHICAGO AVE. 

Phone Austin 7924 

Chicago 




Greeting 

Cards 

Fancy Work 

Clubs 



STUFFED PIMENTOS, BOHEMIAN STYLE 

6 canned red pimentos, 2 eggs, 1 cup canned corn, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Arrange the pimentos in greased ramekins or deep muffin pans 
which have been well greased. The corn should be very thick and 
well drained. To the corn add the slightly beaten eggs, sugar, salt and 
melted butter. Fill the pimentos with the mixtures and bake in slow 
oven till firm. .Serve on a hot platter surrounded with sauce. 

—Mrs. P. G. Winter. 

FIRM OMELET 

6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately ; 1 cup milk, 6 teaspoons 
cornstarch, 1 level teaspoon Calumet baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt. 

To yolks add 6 teaspoons cornstarch (1 to each egg), and one round 
teaspoon Calumet baking powder. Add to this one teaspoon salt and 
1 cup milk. Lastly add the stiff whites, folding in carefully. Bake 
or fry quickly in greased tin. The omelet is firm and tender. 

— Adelaide H. Sisson. 

SHRIMP RAREBIT 

3 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour, 1^ cups milk, ^ tea- 
spoon salt, 6 tablespoons cheese, ^.cup canned shrimps. 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, milk and salt, melt the 
cheese in it and add the shrimps. Serve on toast with large shrimps 
on top, garnished with parsley. 

12 



TELEPHONE 38 AND 90 

CURRY & MASSMANN 

FANCY GROCERIES AND MEATS 

5605 WEST LAKE ST. 



When You Want Good, Fresh Candies Visit 

Bresnahan's Candy Shop 

Assorted Chocolates, 70c per lb. 
5666 W. Madison St. Telephone 4236 



BAKED CORN 

1 can corn, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon flour, pinch of salt, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon butter. 

Mix well and bake Yz hour. 

SCALLOPED CHEESE AND RICE 

2 level tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons flour, y^ teaspoon salt and 
a cup of milk, Y\ cup grated cheese, 2 cups boiled rice. 

Make a white sauce with cheese. In a baking dish arrange the 
rice and sauce in layers, having a top layer of the sauce. Sprinkle 
bread crumbs or cracker dust over this, add a few bits of butter, 
and bake in a moderate over till a golden brown (about 20 minutes). 
This is nourishing, inexpensive and easy to make. 

LIMA BEANS EN CASSEROLE 

1^ cups dried lima beans, ^4 pound sliced bacon, 2 medium-sized 
onions, 1 cup milk, salt and pepper. 

Soak the beans over night. In the morning boil until soft and 
drain. Sear the bacon in a hot frying pan. Remove from the pan 
and put in onions sliced to cook until soft. In a greased casserole 
place a layer of beans, sprinkle with onions and small pieces of bacon, 
and salt and pepper. Repeat until all is used. Ovei this pour milk 
and bake 15 minutes to ^ hour in a moderate oven. 

—Mabel E. Lattan. 

13 



The Parkside Dry Goods Store 

T. W. YOUNGHUSBAND, Prop. 

Dry Goods, Notions, Fancy Goods and Furnishing Goods 
5645 W. Madison Street— Phone Austin 1578 



SPACE DONATED BY 

C. R. CHILDS COMPANY 

5707 WEST LAKE STREET 



FRIED EGG NOODLES 

1 package eggs noodles, 4 slices bacon, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 2 cups 
white sauce. 

Boil noodles 10 minutes, drain and rinse in cold water. Fry in 
bacon fat. Add chopped whites of eggs to white sauce and pour over 
fried noodles on platter. Press the hard yolks through a sieve over 
the white sauce and lay strips of crisp bacon on top. 

SALMON CROQUETTES 

1 can (large) salmon, drained, two cups cold mashed potatoes, 
Yz teaspoon salt and 1 ^Z^- Mix well and form into cakes. Fry 
in 3 or 4 tablespoons hot lard. Serve cream sauce, tomato or chile 
sauce with croquettes. — Stella Simpson. 

NUT AND CHEESE ROAST 

1 cup grated cheese, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup fine bread 
crumbs, 1 tablespoon melted butter, salt and pepper to taste, % 
cup water, parsley. 

Mix well. Turn into buttered baking dish and cover with but- 
tered bread crumbs. Bak-e 20 minutes. 

TOMATO PATTIES 

1 cup cracker crumbs, 1 cup tomatoes drained of juice, 4 hard 
boiled eggs and two raw, a little chopped onion or parsley. 
Mix, form into patties and roll in cracker dust and fry. 

14 



PECAN NUT LOAF 

2 cups boiled rice, 1 cup pecan nut meat finely chopp-ed, 1 cup 
cracker crumbs, 1 egg beaten, 1 cup milk, l^i teaspoons salt, a lit- 
tle sage. 

Turn into a buttered small bread pan, pour over 1 tablespoon 
nielted butt-er, and bake in a moderate oven 1 hour. This is a de- 
licious substitute for a meat dish. Cora Rehm. 



15 



RELISHES 

TOMATO RELISH 

Yi peck ripe tomatoes, 2 green peppers, 2 cups chopped cel-ery, 
5 or 6 medium sized onions. 

Chop tomatoes and drain over night, adding chopped celery- and 
onions, also green peppers. Mix with 1 quart vinegar 2 cups sugar, 
Yz cup salt, 2 ounces whole mustard seed. Can cold. Will not keep 
very long. This is very appetizing. — Sue Wiemerslage. 

PEPPER AND ONION RELISH 

6 white onions, 6 red and 6 green sweet peppers, Yz cup parsley 
leaves, 1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons salt, 2 cups vinegar. 

Peel the onion and cut the peppers in halves, taking out the seeds. 
Mix onions, peppers and parsley with boiling water, press down 
with a plate, and let stand 5 minutes. Drain and add the sugar, salt 
and vinegar. Boil ^ hour and seal in small cans. 

• — Constance Totten. 

CHILI SAUCE 

1 peck tomatoes (ripe) chopped and drained over night, 2 cups 
(each) chopped peppers and onions, Y'^ cup each salt and sugar, 3 
cups vinegar, 2 teaspoons cloves, 2 teaspoons cinnamon and 2 tea- 
spoons nutmeg. Boil slowly 3 hours and stir often. 

— Stella Simpson. 

CORN RELISH 

12 ears of corn, 1 head of cabbage, 4 green sweet p-eppers, 5 
onions, 2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons salt, 1^/4 tablespoons mustard 
and 5 cups vinegar. 

Cut corn ofif cob, and chop other vegetables with corn. Boil 
sugar, salt, mustard and vinegar together, put in chopp-ed vege- 
tables and cook for Yx hour. Seal. — Mrs. Lura Sutton. 

CREOLE SAUCE 
For Croquettes, Meat Loaf, Etc. 

Yi cup white sauce, 2 tablespoons minced onion, 4 tablespoons 
minced green peppers, 1 small can tomato soup. 

In making white sauce, melt a tablespoon butter, add the onion 
and peppers and cook gently for 10 minut-es, then blend in ^ table- 
spoon flour, stir in very slowly ^ cup milk and let boil ; add ^ 
teaspoon salt, and gradually beat in the tomato soup, stirring con- 
stantly to prevent curdling. — Stella Simpson. 

PICKLED PEACHES 

2 pounds brown sugar, 2 cups vinegar, 1 ounce of stick cinnamon 
and Y^- peck of peaches. 

Drop the peaches into hot water to peel. Stick each peach with 
4 cloves. 

Make a syrup of the sugar, vinegar and cinnamon boiled together 
20 minutes. Put half of the peaches into the syrup and cook till done, 
then cook the rest. Can hot and seal air-tight. Pears may be pickled 
the same way. — Fern Koven. 

16 



HESSLAN'S DELICATESSEN 

For Everything Good to Eat 

5046 MADISON ST. FONE AUSTIN 5914 



TOMATO RELISH 

1 peck ripe tomatoes, 3 bunches celery, 3 medium-sized cucumbers, 
5 sweet red peppers, 6 large onions, 2 pounds light brown sugar, 5 cups 
vinegar, 1 small cup salt, 2 ounces white mustard seed. 

Peel the tomatoes, chop them fine and drain. Remove seeds from 
the red peppers, then chop the celery, cucumbers, peppers and onions. 
Mix all the ingredients thoroughly and seal. 

Ida E. Morey, Dep't Chaplain. 

PEPPER HASH 

12 red peppers (sweet), 12 sweet green peppers, 15 medium-sized 
onions, 1 quart vinegar, 2 cups sugar, 3 level tablespoons salt ; add mus- 
tard and celery seed if desired. 

Chop peppers and onions rather small, pour over boiling water, let 
stand 15 minutes and drain. Repeat and drain again. Add the vine- 
gar, sugar and spices. Cook 20 minutes and seal hot. 

—Hazel L. Riley. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

Yz peck tomatoes, 1 pint vinegar, )4 cup salt, ^ ounce cloves, 1 
ounce allspice, ^ ounce cayenne pepper, ^ teaspoon black pepper 
and 1 head garlic. 

Wash the tomatoes and then remove the cores and cut into pieces. 
Boil until very soft and then rub through a fine sieve and return to 
kettle. Add the vinegar and spices. Tie the spice in a piece of cheese- 
cloth. Cook until very thick. Seal in sterilized bottles and cover with 
parawax. Tying spices in a piece of cheesecloth keeps the catsup from 
turning dark. —Mrs. Whitehead. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 

1 peck green tomatoes, sliced thin and sprinkled well with salt; let 
stand over night and then drain through colander; 12 large onions, 
sliced; 4 green sweet peppers, sliced; 4 red sweet peppers, sliced; 4 
small string red peppers, sliced; 2 pounds sugar, 1 package mixed 
pickling spice and 3 pints good cider vinegar. Cook slowly until tender 
and seal in hot sterilized jars. — Ida Loraine Hess. 

17 



SALADS 

TUNA SALAD 

Remove tuna from the can and flake it. Sprinkle with saU, pepper 
and lemon juice, and let stand a short time. Add diced celery, green 
peppers and sliced cucumbers. Blend with mayonnaise dressing just 
before serving. Serve on a lettuce leaf and sprinkle with paprika. 

— Fern Koven. 

NUT AND TOMATO SALAD 

Place a crisp leaf of lettuce on a salad plate. Slice a ripe red 
tomato and place it on the lettuce. Over this pour walnut meats 
that have been cut up small. Use either mayonnaise or French dress- 
ing as preferred. — Alice B. Wakelee. 

PLAIN COLD SLAW 

Slice young cabbage very fine on a cabbage cutter. Season w ith 
salt and sugar and vinegar to taste. Mix thoroughly. When arranged 
in serving dish sprinkle with paprika. 

It is delicious served in the center of a platter wdth fried oysters 
around it. — Kathryn Fields. 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING 

Put pinch of salt in a soup plate with a pinch of mustard and a 
little white pepper. Mix these together and blend with one raw egg 
yolk. Have ready a half cup of olive oil and add it drop by drop to 
mixture, whisking it in with a silver fork. Beat straight across the 
plate and drop the oil right in the path of the beating. A tablespoon of 
boiling water at the last makes it whiter and smoother. Add a small 
bottle of chili sauce. 

• — Minnie A. Custer, Dep't Inspector. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

2 cups minced chicken, 3 cups celery cut fine, 1 cup rich mayonnaise 
and y2 cup rich cream. 

Veal may be substituted for chicken. This is simple to make 
but rich. — Emma Wedeking. 

TUNA FISH SALAD 

1 can tuna fish and 1 cup celery cut fine. Combine with mayonnaise 
dressing. This makes a tempting salad or filling for 12 sandwiches. 

— Mrs. Cameron. 

STUFFED PEPPER SALAD 

3 medium-sized green pappers. Cut tops from peppers and remove 
seeds and parboil in salt water 5 minutes and chill. Mix 1 10-cent 
cream cheese, 34 cupful grated American cheese, 54 cupful chopped 
stuffed olives and a little cream, salt and paprika to taste. 

Fill peppers well and chill. Then slice them crossways and serve 
on lettuce leaves with a garnish of mayonnaise. This cheese mixture 
is very good used for graham bread sandwiches. — Mrs. Cameron. 

19 



If you want to look Nifty and Up-to-date, go to 

THE AUSTIN TAILOR SHOP 

FOR LADIES AND GENTS 

L. Q. MANFREDI, Prop. 

SUITS AND OVERCOATS MADE TO ORDER 

Cleaning and Pressing — Work Called For and Delivered 

5664 West Madison Street Phone Austin 5875 



GOOD SHOES REASONABLY PRICED 

M. R. BAUER 

177 N. CICERO AVE. PHONE AUSTIN 1516 



MOCK CHICKEN SALAD 

Boil until tender 2 pounds veal shoulder and 2 pounds pork shoul- 
der ; let cool and cut up fine ; season with salt and pepper and add Y^. 
dozen sweet pickles and 3 or 4 stalks of celery. 

— Kathleen Simpson. 

DRESSING FOR CHICKEN SALAD 

1 cup water, 1 cup vinegar, 1 tablespoon dry mustard, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, 3 eggs well beaten. 
Boil until thick and when cool add 1 cup cream. 

— Kathleen Simpson. 

SALAD 

1 pound marshmallows cut in small pieces, 1 pineapple cut in small 
pieces, walnuts chopped fine. Whip cream thick and mix in above. 
Crumb Nabiscos over top and put cherry in center. Serve with 2 or 3 
Nabiscos on the side. — Ida Markham. 

CHRISTMAS SALAD 

Place rounds of canned pineapple on leaves of lettuce ; take a 
canned pimento, spread it open, cut*in five points like a poinsettia and 
lay on pineapple. A cream cheese ball rolled in grated yolk of hard- 
boiled t^^^ makes the yellow center of flower. Serve with either French 
or mayonnaise dressing. — Emma Wedeking. 

20 



HAM SALAD 

Chop boiled ham until it is the size of peas and add to this 
an equal quantity of chopped celery. Pour over this a mayonnaise 
dressing. Line a deep dish with crisp lettuce leaves and fill with the 
salad. Very fine. — Kathryn Fields. 

BEET SALAD 

Cut four mechum-sized cold beets in dice and then add 1 green 
pepper minced fine and 1 large onion grated. Season highly with salt 
and paprika. Cover with French dressing. — Mrs. Whitehead. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

5 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 teaspoons mustard, 1 
teaspoon salt, 1 egg, 2^^ cups milk, 2 cups vinegar, butter the size of 
an egg. 

Mix dry ingredients together. Beat the eggs and add the milk a 
little at a time. Mix all together and add vinegar last. Put on to 
boil and beat all the time till thick as cream. 

— Frances Godfrey. 

COOKED MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

4 tablespoons flour, 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon mustard, 2 
eggs beaten, 1 cup boiling water, 1 cup vinegar, 2 cups milk. 

Mix the flour, sugar and mustard with cold water, then the other 
ingredients in the order given. Cook in a double boiler. When thick, 
take from the fire and add butter and salt. When ready to serve 
add whipped cream. — Georgia Glenn. 

TOMATO AND EGG SALAD 

Hard boil one egg and then cut it in cjuarters. Make a nest of 
lettuce leaves. Lay on the sliced tomatoes. Cover w^ith ma}onnaise 
dressing and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. ■ — Mrs. Whitehead. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

3 whole eggs, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup milk, y^ cup butter, j4 teaspoon 
mustard, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon vinegar, juice of 1 lemon, 
pinch of salt. 

Stir sugar, mustard, salt and flour smooth. Add the well-beaten 
eggs, vinegar and lemon juice. Milk and butter should be added last. 
Cook in double boiler until thick. When cool add an equal quantity 
of whipped cream. 

A combination of canned pineapple, oranges, Malaga grapes, with 
skins and seeds removed, and sliced bananas makes a delightful salad. 

—Mabel E. Lattan. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Shred real fine yi of medium sized cabbage; mince 1 onion and 
sprinkle with salt, 4 eggs* hard boiled, chopping two of them in the 
mixture. Take the juice of 1 large lemon, 1 tablespoon sugar and 1 
cup of sweet cream, stirring all together. Cut the remaining 2 eggs 
in rings and place over the top. Sprinkle with a little paprika. 

— Ida Loraine Hess. 

21 



MACARONI SALAD 

y2 cup boiled macaroni cut into ^-inch pieces, ^ cup boiled ham 
cut into ^-inch cubes, y-2. cup sweet pickle cut small. 

Mix and moisten with boiled salad dressing. Serve on lettuce 
leaves in tomato cups, or plain garnished with parsley. 

— M. A. Deubler. 

CHEESE CHERRY SALAD 

Ya, pound cottage cheese, ^ cup chopped walnuts, ^ cup pre- 
served cherries, . lettuce leaves. 

Mix cheese, nut and cherries well. Place a nicely rounded table- 
spoon of the mixture on each crisp lettuce leaf and garnish with a few 
whole cherries. A beautiful salad and good to eat. 

COTTAGE CHEESE AND CARROT SALAD 

Grate a small carrot and squeeze through a cloth or fine sieve. 
Add to well seasoned cottage cheees and shape in the form of carrots. 
Put sprig of parsley in stem end. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise. — Cora Rehm. 



PHONE AUSTIN 9166 



RYAN'S DRY GOODS STORE 

Complete line of Fall and Winter Goods now ready 
4806 W. MADISON ST., CHICAGO, ILL. 



Ch 
Ch 


cago 
cago 


Member 
Real Estate Board 
Board of Underwriters 






Phone Austin 915 






GEORGE 


E. CROKER 


& 


CO. 






Real Estate, Renting, Loans, Insurance 


and 


Exchange 








Notary Public 










345 NORTH 


CENTRAL AVE., CHICAGO | 








Near Lake Street 







22 



CAKES 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

Whites of 8 eggs, yolks of 6 eggs, % cup sugar, 1 cup flour, I 
teaspoon cream of tartar, 1^^ teaspoons orange flavoring, pinch of 
salt. 

Measure sugar and sift 6 times and set aside. Flour to be meas- 
ured and sifted in same way. Beat yolks of eggs until quite creamy. 
Beat whites (adding cream of tartar and salt) until stiff. Fold in 
yolks, sugar and flour. Add flavoring. Uakc in slow oven for 15 
minutes. Raise oven to medium heat for 15 minutes more. By 
this time cake should be raised to top of pan and starting to brown. 
Then turn oven up to finish cooking in 15 minutes. Let stand in 
oven for 5 minutes after turning off gas. Use Van Dusen pan. Invert 
pan and let stand to cool for an hour before removing. 

— Sue Wiemerslage. 

RAISED COFFEE CAKE 

2 quarts soft bread sponge, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 
tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon lard, ly? teaspoons cinnamon, 1 
teacup raisins or currants, flour. 

Scald milk, add butter and lard and let cool, then add this 
with sugar, eggs, cinnamon and fruit to bread sponge. Use enough 
flour to handle, but mix soft, and let rise. Put in pans and let rise 
again. Bake in a slow oven. Frost the top, or, before baking, 
spread melted butter over top and sprinkle with sugar and cinna- 
mon. — Georgia Glenn. 

PRUNE CAKE 

1 cup sugar, ^ cup butter, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons sour cream, 1 
level teaspoon baking soda, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon allspice, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 1 cup chopped cooked prunes. 

Filling 

1 ^SS' H cup sugar, butter size of an egg, ^ cup chopped 
cooked prunes, y^ cup sour cream, ^ cup chopped nuts. Cook 
all together for 5 minues. — Katheryn Fields, 

BLACK GEORGE CAKE 

1 scant half cup sugar, 'IjA tablespoons butter, 1 egg beaten, 1 
cup molasses, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, j4 teaspoon ground 
cloves, 1 cup hot water. 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg, molasses and soda, flour, 
cloves, and lastly the hot water. Bake in three layers. Put to- 
gether with any white frosting, adding chopped raisins between 
the layers. — Georgia Glenn. 

COFFEE CAKE 

1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, % teaspoon salt, 1 egg, 1 cup 
milk, 2 cups flour, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder, scant 
cup raisins. 

Mix like cake. Bake in dripping pan and when done spread 
on butter and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. 

—Maude Lattan. 

24 



Phones Austin 322 — 323 

H. J. TEXTOR 

GROCERY AND MARKET • 
5718 W. MADISON STREET CHICAGO 



Phone Austin 29 

HARRY T. MOVER 

PHARMACIST 
5756 Chicago Avenue, Chicago 



BAPTIST GINGERBREAD 

1 cup molasses, Yi cup sugar, JS cup shortening, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup boiling water, XYz tea- 
spoon soda, 25^ cups flour (no more), 2 eggs beaten light and added 
last. — Constance Totten. 

FRUIT CAKE 

1 large cup sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup apple sauce freshly 
made, and allowed to cool, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 2 teaspoons 
boiling water, ^2 teaspoon cinnamon, a little nutmeg, 1 cup raisins, 
1 cup currants, 2 cups flour, 1 pinch of salt, 1 cup chopped nuts. 

Mix all ingredients, adding last of all the raisins plentifully 
dredged with flour. Prepare as any ordinary loaf cake and bake in 
a slow oven. The dough seems quite stiff but it must be so to be 
right. — Mary Kirven. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

2 eggs, 2 cups brown sugar, 3 cups flour, pinch of salt, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, ^2 cup butter, y^ cup sour milk, y cup boiling water, 
Yi cup grated chocolate or cocoa. 

Cream sugar and butter, beat eggs and add. Then add ^ cup 
sour milk, sifting flour and salt in it at this time. Mix grated choco- 
late or cocoa and boiling water, also soda together and add to batter. 
Bake in medium oven. 

Filling for Cake 

2 cups brown sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, 5^ cup milk. Cook 
until it threads. — Sue Wi-emerslage. 

ONE EGG CAKE 

Cream 1 cup sugar and 1 tablespoon butter. Add 1 beaten ^^%, 
^ cup of milk, 2 cups flour sifted with 2 level teaspoons Calumet 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon lemon extract. Bake in 2 layers, using 
any kind of frosting. — Sue Wiemerslage. 

25 



DR. THOMAS EARL TURNER 

DENTIST 

25 E. Washington Street 5636 W. Madison Street 

Marshall "Field Annex t „ j t-i. j j o , , r 

-, , „, , , , ^ . , r Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday of 

Monday, Wednesday and Friday of Vi k 

each week 

Hours: 8-12 — 1-5 Hours: 8-12 — 1-6 

Telephone State 8140 Telephone Austin 1058 



EGOLESS DEVILS FOOD 

1 cup sugar, ^ cup shortening, 3 teaspoons cocoa, 3 scant cups 
flour, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda in milk, 1 level teaspoon 
Calumet baking powder. 

Bake in layers, or you can add raisins and spice and bake in a 
loaf. If in layers, put together with white filling. 

— Constance Totten. 

LAYER OR LOAF POTATO CAKE 

(Very Good) 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup mashed potatoes, ^ cake 
chocolate, grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 cup milk, 2^^ to 3 cups flour, 
3 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder. 

Filling 
1 cup chopped nuts, 1 cup cream, 1 cup sugar. Boil until thick. 

Frosting 
1 cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, cream enough to 
spread. — Kathryn Fields. 

PRUNE CAKE 

1 cup butter and lard mixed, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, pinch salt, 1^ 
cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk, 3 cups flour, 
1 level teaspoon Calumet baking powder, 1 teaspoon each of cinna- 
mon and nutmeg, ^ teaspoon cloves, 1 cup prunes cooked, sweet- 
ened and chopped. 

Mix in the order given and bake in layers. Put together with 
a butter filling or any preferred white filling. 

— Constance Totten. 

PINEAPPLE CAKE 

5^ cup butter, 1^4 cups sugar, 23-^ cups flour, Ys cup pineapple 
juice, a little over a cup cold water, whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff. 

Mix in the usual order, carefully folding in the beaten whites last 
of all. 

Filling 
Beat white of 1 •egg stiff, add gradually 1 teaspoon of lemon 
juice, 2 tablespoons pineapple, and 4 tablespoons powdered sugar, 
or enough to make a paste to put between layers. 

— Constance Totten. 

26 



KUEHN BROS., INC. 

RETAIL MEATS 

Eight Up-to-Date Sanitary Markets 
Your Neighborhood Market Is Located at 5237 W. CHICAGO AVE. 

Fone Austin 1371 



SPICE FIG CAK£ 

1 cup of raisins and y'j dozen figs chopped together. Pour over 
the fruit one cup of hot water, into which a teaspoon of soda has 
been dissolved. Cream together 1 cup of sugar and Yi cup of but- 
ter, add 2 well beaten eggs, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon and cloves and 
vanilla or lemon extract. Mix this with the fruit and stir in 2 cups 
of flour. A few chopped walnut meats add to the flavor. 

— Grace Blunie. 

WALNUT SPONGE CAKE 

Cream yolks of 6 'Cggs with 1 cup of granulated sugar, pinch of 
salt, 1 cup chopped nuts, 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract, 1 cup of flour 
sifted 3 times with 1 level teaspoon of Calumet baking powder. 
Fold in lightly the 6 whites of the eggs beaten stifl:'!y after the above 
is mixed well. Bake in spring form for 40 minutes in a slow oven. 

— Grace Blume. 

HONEY LOAF 

y\ cup lard or butter, 1 cup of honey, )^ cup sour milk, 1 ^gg, IVs 
cups flour, yo teaspoon soda, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder, 
^ teaspoon cinnamon, j4 teaspoon cloves, nutmeg, pinch salt. 

Cream honey and shortening, then add beaten egg and other in- 
gredients. Use a little nutmeg and mix the soda with the flour. Bake 
in loaf tin. ■ — Grace Blume. 

FRUIT CAKE 

10 eggs, 1 pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 1 pound flour, 2 pounds 
seeded raisins, 2 pounds currants, ^ pound chopped citron, 1 level 
teaspoon Calumet baking powder, ^ teaspoon cloves (powdered), Y 
teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 5 cents' worth of rose water. 

Sprinkle chopped fruits with flour before adding to other ingredi- 
ents. Bake slowly 3 hours. — Ida Clemenson. 

FIG CAKE 

1^ cups brown sugar, y^ cup butter, 2 eggs beaten separately, 
y2 cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking 
powder, Y pound chopped figs. 

Mix in the order given, flouring the figs before adding. Bake 
about 40 minutes in a slow oven. — Luella Washburn. 

27 



East End Pharmacy 

THE RELIABLE DRUG STORE 

Harry E. Krauth, Prop. 
B. W. Altstadt, R. Ph. Ph. C. 

Corner Austin and Chicago Ave. 

Phone Oak Park 570 Oak Park, 111. 

Formerly Schenk's Pharmacy 



THE GIFT SHOP 

Aprons, Toys, Notions, 
School Supplies, Fancy 
Work, Stamped Goods 

31 Chicago Ave., Oak Park 



QUICK COFFEE CAKE 

1 egg, Yi cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 level teaspoons 
Calumet baking powder and a little salt. 

Bake in a square tin 20 minutes in a moderate oven, after sprinkling 
the top with extra sugar, cinnamon and small pieces of butter. 

— Frances Godfrey. 

COFFEE CAKE 

1 cup molasses, ^ cup lard, a pinch salt, 1 cup hot coffee, 1 tea- 
spoon baking soda stirred in the coffee, 1 teaspoon each of ginger 
and cinnamon, ^ teaspoon cloves, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants (if 
desired), 2 cups flour. Stir all together and bake in layers. Use 
white filling and frosting. — Ida Clemenson. 

HOT MILK CAKE 

2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 level tea- 
spoon Calumet baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla, a little salt, and ]/& 
cup hot milk. 

Beat the batter well before adding the hot milk. Bake in a slow 
oven. — Mrs. C. E. Whitehead. 

MARBLE CAKE 

1 cup sugar, ^ cup butter, ^ cup milk, 2 eggs well beaten, 1% 
cups flour, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder. 

To half the batter add 1 teaspoon Mapleine. Bake in a loaf, alter- 
nating spoonfuls of light and dark batter. Or it can be made as a 
two-layer cake without the Mapleine. (My stand-by.) 

— Hazel L. Riley. 
SUNSHINE CAKE 

Whites of 7 eggs, yolks of 5 eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, Yj tea- 
spoon vanilla, ^ teaspoon lemon extract, 1 cup Swansdown cake flour, 
Yi teaspoon cream of tartar, scant, and a pinch of salt. 

Sift flour 5 times, measure and set aside. Separate the eggs, 
putting the yolks in small bowl and the whites in mixing bowl. Beat 
yolks very light. Beat the whites to a foam, then add cream of tartar 
aiid whip until dry and stiff. Add sugar to the whites and carefully 
fold in, then flavoring, and lastly the flour folded in very lightly. Bake 
in deep pans about 30 minutes, ungreased patent pans preferred. When 
done invert the pan and do not remove until cold. 

Clara Hogreff, Past Dep't Chaplain. 

28 



You'll Always Find BEST QUALITY AND CLEAN STOCK in the 

Delicatessen and Grocery Store 

Corner of Laramie Ave. and Ferdinand St. 

J. VAN BLADEL 

Phone Austin 8921 



FEATHER GINGER CAKE 

1 beaten egg, ^ cup sugar, j/^ cup molasses, ^ cup melted short- 
ening (lard and butter mixed), ^ teaspoon salt. 

Mix all together and add 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teaspon 
(level) soda and 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder. Last add 
1 cup boiling water and stir well. Bake about 25 minutes in medium 
oven. — Stella Simpson. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE 

2 eggs, 1 scant cup sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, 2^/2 cups flour, 1 
cup milk, 3 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder, pinch salt. 

Cream the sugar, butter and eggs as usual, adding then the flour, 
milk and baking powder. Lastly stir in a box of cleaned blueberries 
and bake very slowly. Serve with cream. 

Louise Chandler, Dep't Press Correspondent. 

CALUMET WHITE CAKE 

% cup butter, 1 cup milk, 4 egg whites, 1^4 cup sugar, 3 cups 
flour, 3 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder. 

Cream butter and sugar. Add milk alternately with flour, baking 
powder and a pinch of salt, sifted thoroughly. Beat whites of eggs 
and fold in last, stirring gently. Use any favorite flavoring. 

—Mrs. C. E. Whitehead. 

LAYER CAKE 

2 cups sugar, butter or Crisco size of an egg, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 
cups flour, ^ cup cornstarch, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking 
powder. 

Cream butter and sugar together and add the milk and any pre- 
ferred flavoring. Sift the flour, cornstarch and -baking powder to- 
gether before adding. Beat well and bake in two large layers. 

Chocolate Filling 

1 cup sugar, 5 tablespoons cocoa, ^ cup flour, yl cup milk. 

Mix the dry ingredients and add milk. Stir well and cook in 
double boiler about 25 minutes, or until it forms a soft ball in cold 
water. Take from the fire and beat till the right consistency to spread 
between the layers and over the cake. — Zella Wakelee. 

29 



H. J. CRAWLEY ELECTRIC CO. 



THE PEPTOMIST 



5806 W. CHICAGO AVE. 



COLUMBUS 2852 



DRULEY-O'BRIEN CO. 

COAL YARD AND OFFICE 
4601-35 PARK AVENUE 
Austin Branch — 346 N. Central Ave. 



Austin 2000 



SUNSHINE CAKE 

Yolks of 12 eggs, well beaten; 1>^ cups flour, 1^ cups sugar, 1 
level teaspoon of Calumet baking powder and 12 teaspoonfuls of boil- 
ing water. 

Bake 45 minutes in hot oven. 

— Drusilla Ingalls Thayer, Department Secretary. 

ANGEL FOOD 

Whites of 12 eggs, beaten stiff; 1^ cups flour, 1^ cups sugar, 
sifted 8 or 10 times; 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, sifted with 
flour. 

Bake 45 minutes in hot oven. — Drusilla Ingalls Thayer. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

2 cups flour, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder, ^ teaspoon 
salt, 2 teaspoons sugar, 44 cup milk and ^ cup butter. 

Mix dry ingredients, sift twice, work in butter with tips of fingers 
and add milk gradually. Toss on floured board, divide into two parts. 
Pat, roll out and bake 12 minutes in a hot oven. Split and spread 
with butter. Sweeten strawberries to taste, place on back of range 
until warmed, crush slightly, and put between and on top of short- 
cakes. Allow from 1 to 1^ boxes berries to each shortcake. 

— Ida Markham. 



30 



CINNAMON CUP CAKES 

Yz cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs beaten, 1^ cups flour, 2 level 
teaspoons Calumet baking powder, % tablespoon cinnamon, ^ cup 
milk. 

Cream the butter, sugar and beaten eggs. Sift the flour, baking 
powder and cinnamon and add to first mixture alternately with the 
milk. Beat batter thoroughly and turn into well-buttered gem or 
mufiin tins and bake 15 minutes in a moderately hot oven. Remove 
from cups and when cool spread with — 

Cream Frosting 

Sift confectioner's sugar 2 or 3 times ; gradually add 2 tablespoons 
sweet cream, stirring constantly until the right consistency to spread. 
Add 2 teaspoons melted butter and Y^ teaspoon vanilla. The frosting 
will not run if sugar is added slowly and enough of it so that it will 
spread evenly. Use only confectioner's sugar. 

— Pearl Steinmetz. 

MARBLE CAKE 

Light part : 1 Y cups sugar, 1 cup butter, Y cup sweet milk, j4 
teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, whites of four eggs, 2^ 
cups flour. 

Dark part : 1 cup brown sugar, Y? cup molasses, Y cup butter, 
Y cup sour milk, Y teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 2Y 
cups flour, yolks of 4 eggs, allspice, cinnamon and cloves as desired. 

Drop light and dark alternately by spoonfuls in greased tin. Makes 
a large loaf cake. Use white or dark frosting as preferred. 

— Jessie Libke. 

SPICE OR COFFEE CAKE 

2 cups dark brown sugar, 3^ cup shortening, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, Y teaspoon nutmeg, 1 large cup strong 
coffee, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder, 1 cup raisins 
chopped fine, 2 cups flour. 

Beat together the sugar and shortening, add the eggs beaten well 
with the salt, and the spices. Stir the soda in the coffee and mix the 
flour with the raisins before adding. Chopped walnuts and candied 
citron may be added if a richer cake is desired. Bake in medium hot 
oven. — Ida E. Morey, Dep't Chaplain. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

1 cup sugar, Y cup shortening, 1 level teaspoon soda and a little 
warm water, 1^ cup flour, 1 teaspoon salt, level; Y teaspoon cloves, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, Y teaspoon nutmeg, 4 teaspoons cocoa, 1 cup 
apple sauce, unsweetened, and 1 cup raisins. 

Cream shortening well. Add sugar gradually. Dissolve the soda 
in warm water aYid stir into unsweetened apple sauce, letting it foam 
into the sugar and butter. Beat very well. Add flour, salt, spices and 
raisins and cocoa. Can be baked in a loaf. — Ida Markham. 

31 



Standard Ice Cream 
Company 



4501 WEST LAKE STREET 
Tel. Austin 4109 



When you want Ice Cream, ask your dealer for Standard Ice 
Cream Company's Ice Cream 



32 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1 cup sugar, j/ cup butter, 1 scant teaspoon soda, 1 cup sour milk 
or cream, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder, 2 cups flour, 4 
squares bitter chocolate, 1 teaspoon flavoring. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs and beat well. Mix 
soda in milk and add alternately with the flour. Add the dissolved 
chocolate, flavoring and baking powder. Mix w^ell and bake in a 
moderate oven. — Mrs. John Gillette. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

1 cup sugar, 1 egg, tablespoon butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups 
flour, 1 level teaspoon Calumet baking powder and pinch of salt. 
Cover with sliced apples, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. 

— Mildred Olson. 

GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE 

Pulverize 22 graham crackers, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 2 level 
teaspoons Calumet baking powder, 1 tablespoon flour. Cream to- 
gether 1 cup sugar, % cup butter and ^ cup milk ; 3 eggs, whites 
beaten until stiff. 

Bake in three layers or loaf and fill with butter cream icing or 
serve with whipped cream. — Mrs. W. T. Haupt. 

MOTHER'S CAKE 

^2 cup of butter, 1^ cups sugar, 2 cups flour, 2 eggs, 1 cup milk 
and 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder. 

Will make three layers. Put jam or jelly between and use choco- 
late icing. — Clara G. Yengling. 

SPICE CAKE 

2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 saltspoons salt, J4 teaspoon cloves, 
j/2 teaspoon cinnamon, ^/j teaspoon allspice, 1 egg, ^ cup molasses, 
^2 cup milk, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup nut meats, y^ teaspoon vanilla, 3^2 cup 
fat, y2 cup sugar. 

Mix together flour, soda, salt and spices. Cream fat and sugar 
together. Add well beaten egg. Mix molasses and sour milk together 
and add them to dry ingredients, then to the whole mixture. Flour 
raisins and nuts and add to the cake mixture with vanilla. 

Bake in greased tin in moderate oven 45 minutes. Cake should 
shrink from pan when done. — Adelaide H. Sisson. 

ICE CREAM FROSTING 

2 cups powdered sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, white of 1 egg 
and 1 tablespoonful vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar together. Beat the white of egg to 
a stiff froth. Add to sugar and butter; beat to a cream. Then add 
vanilla, beat again and use. — Jessie Libke. 



33 



DOUGHNUTS and COOKIES 

FRIED CAKES 

2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 1 level teaspoon soda, 2 
teaspoons melted butter, a dash of nutmeg and ginger, ^ teaspoon 
salt, flour sufficient to roll out the dough for cutting. Fry in deep 
fat, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. — Olivia Sholes. 

DELICIOUS DOUGHNUTS 

1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 2 eggs beaten light, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda in milk, 3 cups flour, 2 level teaspoons 
Calumet baking powder, salt and nutmeg to flavor. 

Roll out Yi inch thick and shape with doughnut cutter. Drop in 
Crisco hot enough to make them rise instantly to the surface and turn 
at once. When done, drain on brown paper, and roll in powdered 
sugar. — Constance Totten. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

4 cups oatmeal, 2 cups flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup lard, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 cup milk, pinch of salt. Roll thin and cut small cakes. 

Filling 

1 lb. dates, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water. Boil until soft enough to 
spread. Place filling between 2 cakes and let bake. — Mary Kirven. 

ROCKS 

1^ cups brown sugar, 1 scant cup butter, 3 well beaten eggs, 2)^ 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in very little hot water, 1 cup 
seeded raisins, 1 cup walnuts chopped medium fine, pinch salt. 

Mix well and drop in small spoonfuls on buttered tins and bake. 
— Hazel L. Riley, Chairman Dep't Organization. 

SCOTCH SCONES 

Y\ pound butter, 3 to 4 teaspoons granulated sugar, Yz cup milk, 
2 level cups flour, ^ teaspoon salt, 3 level teaspoons Calumet baking 
powder, 1 ^gg. 

Rub together butter and dry ingredients and add beaten ^gg and 
milk. Drop on well greased pans in amounts the size of a walnut. 
Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and bake to a delicious brown. 

— Hazel L. Riley. 

SOFT JUMBLES 

Yi cup butter, 1^^ cups sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup sour milk or cream, 
1 teaspoon soda, 3 cups flour, flavor to taste. 

Mix in the order given and drop by teaspoonfuls on greased tins 
and bake. ■ — Constance Totten. 

GINGER SNAPS 

1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup shortening, 2 teaspoons 
ginger, 6 tablespoons vinegar and 1 tablespoon soda. 

Put the soda in the vinegar and stir to a froth, putting it in last, 
except the flour. Add enough flour to roll without sticking. Bake 
like other cookies. — Ida E. Morey, Dep't Chaplain. 

35 



THOMAS G. MILLER 

DENTIST 

3203 W. Madison St., Chicago 

Phone Garfield 98 
Opposite Kedzie Theatre 



Patronize Your 

Neighborhood 5c, 10c and 

Variety Store 

HALPERN BROS. 
5704 W. MADISON STREET 



MOLASSES COOKIES 

1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, ^ teaspoon cloves, 2 cups 
blown sugar, 3 eggs well beaten, 2 tablespoons vinegar and 1 teaspoon 
soda. Flour to make a stiff batter. 

Boil the molasses and spices. While hot add the flour. When 
cool add the sugar, eggs, vinegar and soda. When they are baked, 
frost with white or chocolate icing. Will keep. 

— Frances Godfrey. 

MY OWN DOUGHNUTS 

2y2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, butter or Crisco the size of small tgg, 1 
scant teaspoon ground nutmeg, lj4 cups fresh buttermilk, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 3 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder and 5 cups flour. 

Cream together the sugar, eggs and nutmeg, add the buttermilk and 
soda, then the flour and baking powder. It should make a soft dough, 
just thick enough to roll. Cut out and fry in hot Crisco or fat. Will 
keep moist and tender. — Alice B. Wakelee, President No. 21. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup shortening, 3 eggs well beaten, 2^^ cups flour, 
1 level teaspoon Calumet baking powder, 10 tablespoons sour milk, 
Yi. teaspoon soda (dissolved in a little hot milk), 2 cups seedless 
raisins (or part English walnuts) sprinkled with flour, and 4 cups of 
oatmeal. 

Mix well and roll out ^ inch thick. Cut the desired size and 
bake in pans in a moderate oven. — Frances Godfrey. 

ORANGE KNOTS 

3 tablespoons Crisco, ^ cup sugar, 1 ^gg and 1 yolk beaten light, 
grated rind of 1 orange, ^4 teaspoon mace, 4 cups sifted flour, ^ tea- 
spoon salt, Xyi teaspoons cream of tartar, j/4 teaspoon soda and Yz 
cup milk. 

Cream the Crisco, beat in the sugar, eggs, orange rind and mace. 
Sift together the dry ingredients and add to the fir^^t mixture with 
the milk, and stir to a firm dough. Cut oft" strips the shape and length 
of a lead pencil. Tie in a knot and shape like a figure eight. Fry 
in hot fat, drain on soft paper and dredge with powdered sugar. 

— Frances Godfrey. 

36 




37 



NOODLES 

Beat 2 eggs until the whites and yolks are well blended, add 1 tea- 
spoon salt and gradually sift flour enough to make a very stiff dough, 
about lys cups. Turn onto a slightly floured board and knead until 
smooth. Divide in two equal parts and roll each part as thin as wall 
paper. Cover sheets of dough with towels and let stand until dry 
enough to roll like jelly roll. Cut in thin slices crosswise, using a 
sharp knife with a thin blade, unroll each slice, sprinkle them over 
the board, cover and let stand until dry. — Pearl Steinmetz. 

DATE BARS 

1 cup sugar, 1 package dates stoned and chopped, ] cup walnut 
meats chopped, 3 eggs and 1 tablespoon water, 1 cup flour, 1 level 
teaspoon Calumet baking powder, IjA teaspoons vanilla. 

Beat eggs with water and add sugar and flavoring, then add 
flour and baking powder, and lastly fruit and nuts. Bake in a 
shallow square pan in slow oven 40 minutes. Cut in bars 4 one 
way of the pan and 6 the other, while still warm. Have ready a 
bag of powdered sugar, and sugar them four at a time, by shaking 
them up and down in the bag. These can b-e kept a week and still 
be delicious. —Emma Cadicux. 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 4 tablespoons melted butter, 3 eggs 
well beaten, 4 cups flour, 3 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder, 
^4 teaspoon nutmeg and }i teaspoon salt. 

Mix butter, sugar, milk, eggs, nutmeg and salt. Then stir into 
the flour. — Mrs. John Thomas. 

FRIED CAKES 

2 cups sugar, 1 pint buttermilk, 3 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 7 tablespoons melted lard, 1 teaspoon soda and Ys teaspoon 
Calum-et baking powder. If made with sweet milk use 2 teaspoons 
cream of tartar and 1 teaspoon soda in the flour. 

Mix as soft as you can roll out. —Jessie Libke. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

iy2 cups sugar, >4 cup lard or butter, 2 eggs beaten to a froth, 

1 cup raisins chopped and 4 tablespoons milk. Can use ^ cup 
raisins and yi nut meats or all nut meats if preferred, 2}4 cups flour, 

2 tablespoons Calumet baking powder and 2 cups oatmeal. 

Drop from spoon in well oiled pan. — Mrs. J. H. Brooks. 

ROCKS 

Cream 1 cup of sugar with % cup of butter, add 1^ cups of flour, 
2 eggs, 1 pound each of chopped English walnuts and raisins, 1 tea- 
spoon each of cinnamon and cloves and 1 of soda dissolved in hot 
water. Drop by teaspoons on greased tins and bake. These keep 
as well as fruit cakes. The dough must be very stift". Add >< Eng- 
lish walnut meat to the top of each cake. — Mrs. P. G. Winter. 

38 



WAFFLES 

4 level teaspoonfuls Calumet baking powder, 2 cupfuls flour, 
Vo teaspoonful salt, 2 eggs separated, 1^ cupfuls milk and 4 table- 
spoonfuls melted butter. 

Mix flour with baking powder and salt and sift into bowl. 
Beat yolks of eggs, add butter and milk. Add this mixture gradu- 
ally to dry ingredients, beating thoroughly. When well mixed fold 
in the stififly beaten whites of eggs. Pour from a pitcher into the 
center of a hot well greased waffle iron. Serve with melted butter 
and maple syrup or with cinnamon and sugar. 

— Mrs. John Thomas. 

TARTS 

A good rich pie crust rolled as if for pie, cut with a tumbler or 
cookie cutter into circles. In half of them cut three holes with a 
thimble. Place solid circles in a baking pan, a teaspoon of jelly on 
each. Cover with cut out circles, pinch around each edge, and bake 
in a moderate oven. — Pearl Steinmetz. 

DATE STICKS 

3 eggs beaten light, 1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons water, 2 teaspoons 
vanilla, 1 cup nuts chopped fine, 1 cup dates chopped fine, 1 cup flour, 
1 level teaspoon Calumet baking powder. 

Bake in flat pan and cut in strips about 3 inches Jong and 1 inch 
wide. — Marie Johnson. 



39 



A LONJG establisned catalogue 
ana publication printing 
plant that Kas kept pace witK 
the times in equipment ana 
organization. 

^ High quality combinea with 
superior service. 



1 ioneer Publishing L>o. 

112 MortK Boulevard 
Oak Park, Illinois 

Publishers of 

Oak Leaves Austinite Forest Leaves 



41 



PUDDINGS 

FIG PUDDING 

1 cup suet (ground), 1 cup figs (ground), 1 cup bread crumbs 
(ground), 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 level teaspoons Calumet 
baking po\^der, whites of 2 eggs, y^ teaspoon vanilla, 1 cup flour. 

Mix all ingredients together, steam 2 hours and serve with the 
following sauce: Yz cup butter and ^ cup brown sugar creamed to- 
gether. Heat in double boiler, stir until hot and add yolks of 2 eggs. 
Heat thoroughly and remove from fire. When cool add J/2 pint of 
whipped cream flavored with ^ teaspoon vanilla. — A Sister. 

STEAMED PUDDING 

Yx cup sugar, J4 cup butter, 1 ^gg, pinch salt, ^ cup milk, 2 cups 
flour, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder, apples. 

Slice apples in pudding dish, making it about half full. Pour the 
pudding batter over apples and steam Yt. hour. 

Sauce 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup water, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 1 teaspoon but- 
ter, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Bring sugar and water to boiling point, add cornstarch dissolved 
in a little water. When thick, add butter, nutmeg and lemon. 

— Constance Totten. 

VERY GOOD DESSERT 

1 cup stale cake crumbs (sponge cake is best), Yi cup chopped 
walnuts, 1 cup chopped marshmallows, 1 cup whipped cream. 

Mix together and pile some of the whipped cream on top. 

— Georgia Glenn. 

PLAIN CUSTARD 

Beaten yolks of five eggs and five tablespoons sugar. Pour over 
this 1 quart hot milk, add pinch salt, flavoring ; add beaten whites of 2 
eggs. Bake in cups set in pan of boiling water. Cover with meringue 
and serve either warm or cold. Do not leave too long in oven. Boil 
instead (if preferred) in double boiler. — Stella Simpson. 

RHUBARB PUDDING 

2 cups dried rhubarb, XYi cups sugar,! heaping tablespoon butter, 
1 ^gg, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla extract, 1 level 
teaspoon Calumet baking powder. 

Into a baking dish put the dried rhubarb with a cup of the sugar. 
Mix the other ingredients, adding enough flour to make a thin cake 
batter. Pour this over the rhubarb, bake in a moderate oven and 
serve with sweet cream. — Fern Koven. 

FRUIT DESSERT 

3 large bananas, the juice of one large orange, ^ cup white sugar, 
Yi cup desiccated cocoanut. 

Skin and slice the bananas, marinate with the orange juice and 
cover with sugar topped with the cocoanut. Delicious with sponge 
cake or any plain cake. — ^Alice B. Wakelee. 

42 



PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM DESSERT 

1 can diced or shredded pineapple, 1 cup walnut meats, 1 envelope 
Knox's gelatin, 3 egg yolks, 1 full cup sugar, 1 pint whipping cream. 

Whip cream stiff. Add eggs and sugar beaten together, then 
pineapple juice to which has been added the gelatin dissolved in y^ 
cup boiling water. This seems to make the cream quite thin, but is 
all right. Place on ice and when it commences to set add fruit and 
nuts, raising fruit occasionally to distribute evenly. Delicious. Will 
serve 18 guests. Let stand on the ice 8 hours. 

- — Emma Cadieux, Dept. Patriotic Instructor. 

LEMON BREAD PUDDING 

4 heaping tablespoons bread crumbs, ^ cup sugar, 3 eggs, a pinch 
salt, the juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

Boil the bread crumbs with a little water for 10 minutes. Cool 
until it thickens, then add the sugar, the beaten yolks, the salt and 
lemon. Bake in a moderate oven, and when done cover with a 
meringue of the beaten whites and set again in the oven to brown. 

— Fern Koven. 

PLUM PUDDING 

4 eggs, 1 large cup sugar, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon pow- 
dered cloves, a pinch of mace, y2 teaspoon salt, 1 cup sour milk, 1 
level teaspoon baking soda, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup currants, j/2 cup 
citron sliced thin, 2 cups bread crumbs and 1 cup chopped suet. 

In a large bowl beat the eggs well ; add the sugar and spices. Flour 
the fruit well before adding. Put in the sour milk and soda last, and 
use more flour if it seems too moist. Boil or steam 4 hours. 

— Olivia Sholes. 

CARROT PUDDING 

1 cup grated raw carrot, 1 cup grated raw potato, 1 cup grated 
raw apple, 1 cup beef suet, chopped fine ; 2 cups raisins, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 tea- 
spoon cloves, 1 teaspoon nutmeg and 1 tablespoon molasses. 

Mix in order given and steam three hours. — Mrs. Cameron. 

CHOCOLATE RICE CREAM 

1 cup sweet milk, j/i cup well washed rice, % teaspoon salt, 5 
teaspoons sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 3 tablespoons grated unsweetened 
chocolate and 1 ' teaspoon vanilla. 

Put milk in double boiler. When boiling hot add all the other 
ingredients and steam one hour. Usually served ice cold, but is 
equally good warm. — ^Luella Washburn. 

DATE TORTE 

3 eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 cup dates 
chopped fine, 1 cup nuts chopped fine, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Beat the whites of the eggs very stiff, add the yolks and other 
ingredients. Bake slowly in a moderate oven 35 minutes. Serve with 
whipped cream. — Maude Lattan. 

43 



FRUITED SPANISH CREAM 

1 envelope Knox gelatin, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon vanilla, 1 quart 
milk, 8 tablespoons sugar. 

Soak gelatin in milk. Put on fire and stir until dissolved. Add 
yolks of eggs and four tablespoons sugar well beaten. Stir until it 
comes to the boiling point. Remove from stove and have whites of 
eggs well beaten with four tablespoons sugar. Add whites, stirring 
briskly until thoroughly mixed. Flavor and pour into sherbet glasses 
to become firm. At serving time make a deep impression in the cen- 
ters and fill the cavity with sweetened raspberries, strawberries or 
other berries or fruits (fresh or canned). Cover the top with a 
spoonful of whipped cream, or with the original mixture, concealing 
the berries or fruits. Decorate with choice berries or pieces of fruit. 

—Mrs. P. G. Winter. 

CINNAMON APPLES 

Yi pound red cinnamon candies, 1^ cups sugar, 1 cup water, de- 
sired amount of apples, chopped nuts and dates and whipped cream. 

Pare apples, core through centers, leaving apples whole. When 
candies, sugar and water boil put in the apples and cook them till done. 
Fill centers with chopped nuts and dates mixed and serve cold with 
whipped cream. ^Clara Hogrefif. 

STEAMED PEACH PUDDING 

1 cup peaches, softened; Yz cup butter, ^ cup sugar, 2 eggs, 
beaten ; 1 cup flour, 1 level teaspoon Calumet baking powder, 1 pinch 
salt. 

Cut peaches into small pieces. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the eggs, peaches, flour sifted with baking powdei and salt. Mix 
well, turn into a greased mold, cover with greased paper or lid and 
steam steadily two hours. Turn out and serve with peace syrup heated 
or with sweet melted butter sauce. If desired, 2 tablespoons each of 
chopped nut meats and candied citron peel may be added. 

— Kathleen Simpson. 

SEAFOAM SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon flour, Yi cup sugar, yolk 1 t.gg, 
Y2 cup water, 1 teaspoon vanilla, white 1 ^^g. 

Cream butter and add flour, mixed with sugar, gradually while 
stirring constantly ; then add ^gg yolk, well beaten, water and vanilla. 
Cook in double boiler until mixture thickens, stirring constantly at 
first and afterward occasionally. Cool and just before serving add 
^gg white beaten until stifif. — Mrs. P. G. Winter. 

CREAM APPLES 

Pare and core 6 apples. Make a syrup of water and Y^ cup sugar, 
enough to cover apples, and boil 5 minutes, not longer or they will 
break, and set aside to cool. Make a mixture of >4 cup mixed nuts 
and Y cup raisins, run through the meat grinder; Ya cup cream, ^ 
teaspoon cinnamon or nutmeg, and 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix well ; fill center of apples ; serve with remaining sauce ; dot 
with whipped cream. — Mrs. Cameron. 

44 



PIES 

BUTTERSCOTCH PIE 

2 cups brown sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon butter, melted together ; 
1 cup of hot milk, yolks of three eggs, 4 tablespoons of flour, pinch 
of salt. Cook in double boiler. 

Beat whites of eggs with powdered sugar. Have under crust baked. 
Put egg whites on top of pie ; put in oven to brow^n. 

— Katherine Compton, 
Illinois Dep't President, Daughters of Veterans. 

MOCK MINCE MEAT 

1 cup currants, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup bread crumbs, 1^ cups hot 
water, ^ cup vinegar, l^^ cups sugar, lump of butter and spices to 
taste. 

Put all together and when it has come to a boil it is ready for the 
crusts. — Mrs. Lura Sutton. 

BUTTERSCOTCH PIE 

1 pint milk, 1 cup brown sugar, 2 tablespoons cornstarch, 2 eggs, 
1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Bake an under crust. Mix sugar, cornstarch, milk and a pinch 
of salt and cook in double boiler. Add egg yolks, beaten, and vanilla. 
Fill baked crust and top with a meringue of the whites and browm 
in oven. — Constance Totten. 

DATE PIE 

3 tablespoons cracker dust, 1 cup sugar, 1 package dates chopped, 
6 eggs beaten separately, 2 level teaspoons Calumet baking powder, 
1 cup chopped nuts. 

Mix all ingredients together, adding beaten whites of eggs last. 
Bake 15 minutes. — Ida Clemenson. 

MINCE MEAT 

2 potmds cold cooked beef chopped, 5 pounds apples chopped, 
34 pound suet chopped, 1 pound currants chopped, 2 pounds raisins 
chopped, % pound citron chopped, 2 pounds sugar, 1 pint meat juice, 
1 pint cider, 1^/2 pints molasses, 1^^ teaspoon cloves, IjA teaspoon 
mace, 5 teaspoons cinnamon, ^ teaspoon black pepper ( 3 tablespoons 
salt, 1 nutmeg grated, the grated rinds and juice of 2 lemons. 

Mix all together and boil for 5 minutes. This will keep if sealed 
and makes about 6 quarts. When ready to use thin wath water or 
any fruit juice. — Mabel E. Lattan. 

LEMON PIE 

l}i cup sugar, 3^ cup flour, pinch of salt, 3 eggs, 1^ cups boiling 
water, 1 teaspoon butter, juice of 1 lemon and grated rind. 

Mix sugar, flour and salt, add boiling water and stir constantly. 
Cook for 10 or 15 minutes, then add butter, egg yolks, rind and juice 
of lemon. Turn into pie plate lined with baked crust. Beat whites 
of eggs, add little sugar, cover pie and brown slightly. 

■ — Anna Broadrick. 

46 



DATE PIE 

Remove the stones from half a pound of dates, boil until tender 
and rub through a colander. Thicken 2 cups of hot milk with 1 
tablespoon of flour, add a well-beaten egg and pinch of salt, the date 
pulp, and sweeten slightly if desired. Bake in one crust and serve 
cold with a garnish of whipped cream and stuiTed dates. 

—Mrs. J. H. Brooks. 

RHUBARB PIE 

Take the tender stalks, strip ofl: the skin and cut in small pieces. 
Put them in a stew pan with just a little water and stew until tender ; 
if too much water drain it oft; add sugar to taste. Beat 2 eggs very 
light and stir them into enough rhubarb to fill one pie plate. Bake 
in an under crust ; use the whites of eggs to frost the top. 

—-Anna Broadrick. 

COCOANUT CREAM PIE 

Butter, flavoring, ^ cup cocoanut, 1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 2 table- 
spoons cornstarch and 3 tablespoons sugar. 

Wet cornstarch with a little cold milk, beat yolks of eggs and 
sugar together and add boiling milk, a little butter, flavoring and ^ 
cup or more of cocoanut. Beat whites of eggs for frosting; have crust 
baked, put in the mixture and frost. - — Anna Broadrick. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

1 quart stewed and strained pumpkin, 1 cup milk, }4 teaspoon 
cinnamon, ^ teaspoon ginger, ^ cup sugar, ^4 teaspoon salt and 
2 eggs. 

Mix ingredients in order given. Bake in one crust in hot oven 
until crust is baked. — Mrs. C. E. Whitehead. 

CRANBERRY AND RAISIN PIE 

2 cups cranberries, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water, ^ cup cracker 
crumbs, 3^ cup seeded raisins, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon lemon or orange 
juice. 

Boil cranberries, water and raisins until berries burst open, then 
add the sugar. Cool, add the cracker crumbs, egg and orange juice. 
Line a pie plate with pastry and fill with fruit mixture. Arrange 
strips of pastry lattice fashion over top and bake in a quick oven 25 
minutes. M. A. Deubler. 

PUMPKIN PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

2 cups cooked and strained pumpkin, 1 cup milk, jA cup thin 
cream, j4 cup sugar, }i teaspoon salt, }i teaspoon nutmeg, lj4 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, 1 tablespoon ginger and 2 eggs slightly beaten. 

In a deep mixing bowl stir these ingredients until well blended. 
Turn into a deep glass pie plate lined with a rich pastry and finish 
with a fluted rim. Bake in a hot oven the first 10 minutes to set the 
pastry, then reduce the heat and continue baking from 25 to 30 min- 
utes. Serve cold with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with 
orange extract. — M. A. Deubler. 

47 



CANDIES and DRINKS 

NUT FUDGE 

2 cups svtgar, 1 cup sweet milk, butter size of a walnut, 4 table- 
spoons cocoa or chocolate, 1 cup chopped pecans. 

Put all except the nuts in a saucepan and let it cook till it will 
harden on a spoon when dropped in cold water. Then take from 
the stove and beat with a spoon till it becomes thick, then stir in the 
pecans and pour onto a large buttered platter to cool. When nearly- 
hard cut in squares. 

Agnes Gragg Lucas, Dep't Council Member. 

ROASTED ALMONDS 

Shell and blanch almonds, put them in a sauce pan, with some 
salt, set them in the oven until they are hot, remove the sauce pan 
from the oven and add a small j)iece of butter to the almonds, and 
shake them over the fire until they are brown, taking care that they 
do not burn. — Agnes Gragg Lucas. 

STUFFED DATES 

" These are very nice for a Christmas dainty. Cut dates in two 
lengthwise, remove the pits and fill the cavity with the following 
mixture: I beaten white of egg thickened with powdered sugar and 
chopped nuts until it will mold into a pit for the date. Then press 
the two halves together and roll in granulated sugar. About 75 dates 
can be fixed with 1 white of egg. — Agnes Gragg Lucas. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 

Cut the orange peel 2 or 3 inches long and ^ inch wide. Cover 
with water and let stand till the third day, changing the water each 
day. Add an equal quantity of sugar, put in a granite kettle and 
cover with boiling water. Simmer for three hours, strain the syrup 
off and place the peel on a platter. Stir into it all the granulated 
sugar it will absorb. It should be dry yet perfectly soft. 

— Cora Rehm. 

GRAPE JUICE 

Remove Concord grapes from the stems, wash, cover with cold 
water and boil. Cook until the pulp is soft and can be rubbed through 
a sieve, usually about 15 minutes boiling. 

Strain as for jelly making, taking care not to squeeze the pulp. 
Fill into sterilized glass jars and stand in hot water, boiling for 20 
minutes. Fill to the top with boiling water, remove from stove and 
seal tightly. Cool and cover caps with parafifn. The pulp is fine for 
grape butter. — Mrs. C. E. Whitehead. 

PUFFED RICE BALLS 

1 pound brown sugar, 8 tablespoons water, 4 tablespoons Maple 
Karo syrup, 1 package puffed rice. 

Boil sugar, water and Karo until it hairs. Pour over puffed rice 
and make into balls. Makes 14 balls and costs 25 cents to make. 

— Mrs. Cameron. 

49 



SEA FOAM 

3 cups gi^anulated sugar, ^ cup light Karo Korn syrup, 3/^ cup 
water, Yz teaspoon salt, whites of 2 eggs, 1 cup chopped nuts. 

Beat the whites of eggs stiff with the salt. Boil the syrup and 
when it makes a soft ball in cold water, add a very little at a time to 
the beaten whites, until all is used. Beat until it is so stiff it will 
stay on the spoon, then add the nuts previously chopped and drop 
in patties on a buttered plate. — Marie Johnson. 

COLD CHOCOLATE DRINK 

2 squares bitter chocolate, 1 pint boiling water, 2 heaping cups 
sugar. 

Boil chocolate in half the water and sugar in other half until 
thoroughly dissolved, then mix and boil about 3 minutes. When cold 
add two teaspoons vanilla. 

Use 2 tablespoons of the syrup to a glass of cold milk. 

This syrup can also be used as a sauce for ice cream or puddings. 
It will keep a long time if kept cold. 

— (Miss) Lottie M. Ferry. 

FLUFFY RUFFLES CANDY 

2 cups granulated sugar, ^^ cup corn syrup, Y^ cup hot water. 

Cook like fudge. Do not stir all the time. Test in water; when 
it forms a soft ball remove from fire, add 1 teaspoon vanilla and pour 
into the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, beating all the time. Add Yi cup 
of walnut meats. — Mrs. Cameron. 



SO 



SANDWICHES 

DATE SANDWICHES 

Butter lightly crustless slices of white bread. Rub a Philadelphia 
cream cheese smooth and work into it Yi cup of dates, stoned and 
chopped fine. Spread this between the bread slices. 

— Katheryn Fields. 

LOVERS' SANDWICHES 

Yz pound boiled ham, 1 small can of pimentos and Yacht Club 
salad dressing. 

Grind ham and pimentos together, mix with the salad dressing to 
taste and spread between buttered slices of bread, cut with a heart- 
shaped cookie cutter. ■ — Katheryn Fields. 

NUT AND DATE SANDWICHES 

Cut thin slices of brown bread, spread with butter. Chop equal 
parts of nuts and dates; a little orange juice may be added. Spread 
on bread. — Emma Wedeking. 

PATRIOTIC SANDWICH 

Cut bread slices with glass top or cutter to form rounds. Mix 
Blue Ribbon cheese with cream to soften it. Chop pimentos rather 
fine. Spread bread with butter, then the cheese mixture ; place a row of 
pimento around edge of bread. Mix a little cheese with blue coloring 
and put dab of blue in center of bread. ^Emma Wedeking. 

PIMENTO SANDWICH 

Butter two slices of white bread. On lower slice place leaf let- 
tuce, spread with salad dressing, thin slices of veal loaf and strips 
of canned pimentos. Cover with buttered bread and cut across with 
sharp knife to make two triangular sandwiches. 

SARDINE SANDWICH 

Remove skin and backbones from can of sardines. Mash in a bowl 
till a smooth paste, then add a tablespoon of lemon juice and spread 
between thin slices of buttered bread. 

CLUB SANDWICHES 

Toast two slices of bread and butter lightly. On one put lettuce 
leaf, spread with salad dressing. Lay on thin slices of chicken, then 
more lettuce and dressing, two slices crisp bacon, another lettuce leaf, 
and finish with the second slice of toast. Served with coffee alone it 
makes a delicious, nourishing meal. Garnish with sliced tomato if 
desired. 

COMBINATION SANDWICH 

Butter thinly two slices of white bread. Fill sandwich with the 
following in layers : Lettuce leaf, salad dressing, thin slices of tomato, 
chopped celery, a little minced green sweet pepper. Cover with bread 
and cut across. A tempting dish for luncheon, healthful and delicious. 

52 



SANDWICHES TO BE SERVED WITH SALAD 

Peanut butter. 

Sliced ham and mustard. 

Sliced beef and dill pickle. 

Cubed cucumbers and radishes moistened with salad dressing. 

Chopped olives and celery and salad dressing. 

— M. A. Deubler. 
CREAM CHEESE AND NUT SANDWICH 

Chop fine 1 cup English walnuts and mix with cottage cheese 
moistened with sweet cream. Salt to taste and spread generously 
between slices of whole wheat bread. — Constance Totten. 



53 



PRESERVES 

RHUBARB AND ORANGE MARMALADE 

1 quart of rhubarb cut fine, 4 oranges peeled and cut fine, 6 cups 
of sugar. 

Run orange peel through meat grinder. Make a syrup of the 
sugar and a little water, boiled until it threads. Put chopped fruit 
in the S3'rup and simmer 1 hour, when it is ready to seal. 

— Mrs. Lura Sutton. 

PLUM CONSERVE 

1 large square box red plums, 1 pound seeded raisins, ^ pound 
figs, Yz pound English walnut meats, 5 pounds sugar and 4 oranges. 

Cook plums and remove stones. Grind in meat grinder other in- 
gredients and cook all together about 2 hours. — Ida Markham. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

6 large oranges and 2 lemons sliced whole very thin. Measure 
and add 3 times the amount of water and let stand over night. Boil 
5 minutes and let stand till afternoon. Add an equal weight of sugar, 
stir well, and let stand again till morning. Then boil till it jells, about 
30 minutes. — Cora Rehm. 

PLUM CONSERVE 

9 dozen plums cut in quarters and stoned, 3 oranges cut in small 
pieces (everything but seeds), 1 pound seeded raisins, 3 pounds sugar. 

Boil 1 hour and 30 minutes. When cool and just before putting 
in glasses add ^ pound English walnuts cut in small pieces. This is 
very delicious. — Sue Wiemerslage. 

FRUIT JAM 

1 quart ground pineapple, 2 quarts strawberries and 3 cups sugar. 
Boil until well cooked and as thick as you like. 

— ^Jessie Libke. 

PLUM CONSERVE 

3 pounds plums, 3 pounds sugar, 1 package raisins, 3 oranges, 2 
lemons. 

Wash and cut the fruit. Boil it with sugar until thick. Put in 
jelly glasses, seal with paraffin. Peaches or grapes may be used 
instead of plums. — ^Adelaide H. Sisson. 

GRAPE JAM 

2 quarts grapes and 2 quarts sweet apples. 

Stew separately and rub through colander. Put together and add 
2 pounds sugar and 1 teaspoon cinnamon. Cook until it thickens. 

— Mrs. Cameron. 

55 



GINGER PEARS 

Ginger pears are delicious and hard green pears that seem worth- 
less will work up into this preserve. Use 4 cups water, 6 pounds 
sugar, 9 pounds pears, 6 ounces crystallized ginger and 4 lemons: 

Make a syrup of the water and sugar. Pare and slice the pears. 
Put pears into syrup and boil until they begin to look transparent. 
Add grated rind of 1 lemon and juice of 4. Add ginger and continue 

to cook until the pear slices are transparent and the whole is very 

thick. Put into glasses and seal when cool. 

— Clara G. Yengling, Past National President. 



56 



INDEX 

Biscuits 4-5 

Breads 4-5 

Cakes 24-33 

Candies 49-50 

Cookies 35-39 

Doughnuts 35-39 

Drinks 49-50 

Meats 7-9 

Meatless Dishes 1 1-14 

Muffins 4-5 

Pies 46-47 

Puddings 42-44 

Preserves 55-56 

Relishes 16-17 

Salads 19-22 

Sandwiches 52-53 



58 



AN APPRECIATION 

Our foremost thought on completing the compiUng of this book 
is a sense of sincerest gratitude toward all the Sisters of our beloved 
Order who have helped to make it a success — toward the members 
of Ida McKinley Tent No. 21 who have -so generously responded to 
the call for recipes and have sent such a wealth of tempting material 
for the book. We are also grateful to the officers of the Department 
of Illinois and our Past National President, who have honored us 
with contributions, and in this way added very materially to the 
interest and value of the book. 

To those Sisters who secured our advertisements we are espe- 
cially indebted, as they will enable us to sell the book at a moderate 
price and still leave a sum for patriotic work. Our advertisers are 
all well-known business men of recognized worth in Austin and Oak 
Park, and we earnestly request the Sisters to reward their courtesy to 
us, by giving them their patronage. 

It is not in our power to dedicate so modest a book to a great 
cause without seeming presumption. But it is the thought of the 
Daughters of Veterans in Ida McKinley Tent No. 21, that in our 
hearts at least, we humbly offer this little book to the sacred memories 
of our fathers, with undying loyalty to the Flag Our Fathers Saved. 

Additional copies of this book may be obtained from the Secretary 
of Tent 21 at the following address: Miss Esther Clemenson, 5727 
West Superior street, Chicago 111. 



Copyright, 1921, Cora H. Rehm, Oak Park, 111. 

59 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 488 190 4 



