oR. 





O 1 £liJ\ 







OF 







ES 




Class _JLXrLL^ 
Rnnk , I 



Copyright)^?. 



COEXKIGHT DEPOSm 



ct. h 



■<"*-A^^.l ^-£u.S 



(^'''^Urj.aJZsn^ 



BOOK 



OF 



RECIPES 




BY THE 



^nman ^0!50cmtt0n 



OF 



anb tl|ctr frtcttba 

DETROIT, MICHIQAN 

SECOND EDITION 

Copyright 1921 



-T .^ 



Some zvonicn arc loved 
Because of good looks, 
But everyone loves 
The zvoinan zvho cooks. 

A^ozv, the secret of being 
An excellent cook 
Lies in the possession 
Of a reliable book. 

The recipes zvhich 
Are here offered you. 
We are happy to state 
Are all tried and true. 

And. if you zvill follow 
With care and precision, 
We're sure naught but praise 
Will be your decision. 



— Mvrta K. Chandler. 



©a.A6.30925 



•'-^/^ 



4 




^arrcn anb Trumbull JV&es. 
Pctroit, ^itbtgan 



Home is Sweeter if 
You Own Your Own 

iJuild of Wood, it will be 
artistic, comfortable and 
enduring. Our Complete 
Service of Lumber and 
Mill- Work will help you. 

We also specialize in 
Coal-Wood and Kindling. 

Webster Lumber Co. 

1159 Holden Avenue 

Phone Northway 3607 



3Ttrat ©nura? iiahra 



Of all that in the waters divell, 
Give me an oyster on the shell. 

— M. K. C. 

¥ 

OYSTERS ON HALF SHELL. 

For each person take G opened and loosened oysters. 
Serve in shell on cracked ice, small ends to center of dish. 
Mix 6 teaspoons vinegar, 1 tablespoon catsup, 34 teaspoon 
salt, 6 teaspoons grated horseradish and season with cayenne 
and j)aprika. 

Ser\e a portion of this sauce in small glass dish, placed 
in middle of each plate; also ^ lemon may be placed on side 
of each ; or put lemon in center of each plate and pass sauce. 

Mrs. E. L. Buell. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Serve 6 oysters in each glass with ly? tablespoon catsup, 
1 teaspoon lemon juice, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce and 
3 drops tobasco sauce. Horseradish if desired. Serve cold. 

Mrs. Arthur Montgomery. 

FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

One cup sugar, 2 cups water; boil o minutes; cool and 
add juice of ^ lemon or 2 tablespoons grape juice. Take 3 
oranges, 3 bananas, 1 cup pineapple, 1 cup malaga grapes, J/^ 
cup maraschino cherries; dice oranges, bananas and pineap- 
ple ; halve and seed grapes. Mix syrup and fruit. Serve very 
cold in glasses. Mrs. G. E. McKean. 

Mrs. W. J. Johnson. 

GRAPEFRUIT IN SHELLS. 

Cut grapefruit in halves; remove pulp and juice; sweeten 
to taste ; add a few maraschino cherries. Remove white lin- 
ing from skins; notch edges with scissors and fill with fruit 
mixture, just before serving. Must be served very cold. 

Mrs. A. Montgomery. 

For Dainty Delicious Desserts use KNOX GELATINE. 



FIRST COURSE DISHES 



MINT SAUCE FOR MELON. 

Two cups water, 1 cup sugar, boil 15 minutes. Chill. 
Just before serving add ^^ cup chopped mint leaves. Pour 
over watermelon or cantaloupe, cut m dice. Serve in tall 
glasses. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

CANAPES. 

Canapes are made from white, grahain or brown bread, 
sliced very thin and cut in various shapes. They are d'pped 
in melted butter and may be either toasted or fried. 

ANCHOVY CANAPES. 

Spread circular pieces of bread with Anchovy paste. 
Chop separately, yolks and whites of hard boiled eggs. Di- 
vide canapes in quarters with anchovies split in two length- 
wise and fill each quarter with alternate whites and yolks of 
egg- 

CAVIARE CANAPES. 

Cut bread in 34 inch slices, 4 inches long and 2 inches 
wide. Spread with caviare paste and a few drops of lemon 
juice and paprika. Garnish with finely chopped red or green 
peppers. 

CHEESE CANAPES. 

Toast circular pieces of bread, sprinkle with thick layer 
of grated cheese ; season with salt, paprika. Put in oven on 
dish until cheese melts. Serve at once. 

CANAPES LORENZO. 

Toast slices of bread cut in shape of horseshoe. Take 
finely chopped crab meat, season with salt, paprika, a few 
drops of lemon juice, moisten with thick white sauce. Spread 
on canapes, cover with 2 tablespoons butter into which 1 tea- 
spoon white of egg, well beaten, has been creamed. Sprinkle 
with grated cheese, brown in oven. Lobster may be used 
in place of crab meat. 

NUT AND OLIVE CANAPES. 

Cut bread in crescents. Take equal quantities of nuts 
and olives, finely chopped and enough mayonnaise to spread. 
Garnish with diamonds of tomatoes. 

KNOX GELATINE comes in two packages— PLAIN and ACIDU- 
LATED (Lemon Flavor). 



FIRST COURSE DISHES 



SARDINE CANAPES. 

Spread circular pieces of bread with sardines mixed with 
butter, seasoned with Worcestershire sauce and paprika. 
Place in center of each a stuffed olive. Garnish with border 
of iinel}- chopped whites of hard boiled eggs. 

CRAB MEAT COCKTAILS. 

Place one section orange in glass, add crab meat, top with 
oil dressing. Serve cold. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

EGG CANAPE. 

Boil 6 eggs 20 minutes, place center slice of each egg in 
individual molds, into which put the following mixture : 
yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, }i teaspoon mustard, salt 
and pepper. Mix to a paste with vinegar, add chopped egg 
whites, 5-4 teaspoon Knox gelatine dissolved, 1 teaspoon 
chopped parsley, I teaspoon chopped chives, mix to a nice 
paste with salad dressing. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

DELICIOUS FRUIT CUP. 

3 Grapefruit 1 cup cherries and their 

3 oranges syrup 

% cup sugar 

Cut fruit in half and separate from all skin. Then mix 
altogether and let stand 4 or 5 hours or over night. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

SHRIMP CANAPES. 

Round slice of toast spread with salad dressing. Add yi 
inch layer of cottage cheese. Cover with shrimps. Top with 
salad dressing. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Make white sauce of I cup milk, 2 tablespoons butter and 
3 level tablespoons Henkel's flour. Add yolks -4 eggs, ]/> 
teaspoon salt, pepper and 1 cup grated cheese, stir well. Let 
cool, and add whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff, bake in buttered 
ramekins in hot oven 15 minutes. Serves six. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

A KNOX GELATINE Dessert or Salad is attractive and appetizing. 



Diamond Merchants & Jewelers 
1532 Washington Boulevard 



Thomas Brothers 

SUBDIVISION SPECIALISTS 

Also Departments Handling 

REAL ESTATE — LOANS — INSURANCE 

412 Farewell Bldg. Cherry 4394 

"NOT SOMETHING FOR NOTHING 
BUT A LOT FOR A LITTLE" 



DECORATOR 

NoRTHWAY 3010 S9T3 TRUMBULL 



'n«ps 



Let company come in a regular troop, 
JJ'e'll put on the kettle and make more soup. 

— M. K. C. 

POTATO SOUP. 

5 medium size potatoes 2 onions. 

1 stalk celery 

Slice potatoes and onions, cut celery in small pieces, cover 
with water and boil 30 minutes. Then mash through a sieve 
and add: 1^ pints milk and just let it come to a boil, then 
season with salt, pepper and butter size of an tgg,. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Soak quart white beans overnight ; in morning pour off 
water ; add fresh and simmer until skins slip oft easily, throw 
them in cold water, rub well and skins will rise to top, .where 
they may be removed. Boil beans until perfectly soft, allow- 
ing 2 quarts water to 1 quart beans ; mash through sieve, add 
flour and butter rubbed together, also salt and pepper. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Two small potatoes, 1 onion, 3 cups cut celery. Cover 
with 3 pints water and boil ]/> hour; add 3 cups milk and boil 
slowly 15 minutes; strain. Mash potatoes through colander 
and thicken with 1 heaping tablespoon flour, 1 heaping table- 
spoon butter, salt and paprika to taste. Serve with cho])ped 
parsley on top. Mrs. Krepts. 



Pink Coloring for fancy desserts in each package of KNOX 
GELATINE. 



10 SOUPS 



CORN SOUP. 



Split the grains of 1 dozen ears of corn and scrape from 
the cob ; boil cobs for 10 minutes in sufficient water to cover 
them and strain. Of this water use 1 quart, adding 1 quart of 
cream poured in slowly and follow with corn. Cook 15 min- 
utes and season to taste. If milk be used, it should be thick- 
ened with a tablespoon of butter and like quantity of flour 
mixed together. Canned corn may be used, if desired. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

One can peas; 1 pint water. Cook until peas are tender. 
Press through sieve. Bring 1 quart of milk to boiling point, 
add peas and 2 teaspoons flour rubbed with 1 rounding tea- 
spoon Ijutter. Cook well, but do not boil hard. 

Mrs. Curtis. 

ONION SOUP. 

Cover 1 quart onions with water and boil until reduced 
to 1 pint of juice ; add 3 cups milk, bring to boil ; strain. 
Thicken, and add butter, salt and paprika to taste. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

DELICIOUS OYSTER SOUP. 

One pint oysters, IjA pints cold water; 1 pint sweet milk, 
butter, salt and pepper. Put oysters in cold water and boil 
j.vell for 20 minutes ; season and add milk. Let all become 
hot, but do not boil after adding milk. This will serve 4 
persons. Mrs. Ludlow. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Pick over and wash 1 quart oysters. Scald 1 pint milk. 
Strain, boil and skim oyster liquor; when clear add oysters. 
Cook tdl oysters are plump and well ruffled; take from fire, 
add hot milk, salt and pepper. This may be varied by addi- 
tion of a little chopped celery or onion. Mrs. J. Devlin. 

PEA SOUP. 

One can peas ; 2 quarts water ; y^ onion, 4 tablespoons 
flour, 15^ teaspoons salt, 2 tablespoons butter, pepper to taste. 
Heat water and peas together and rub through sieve. Add 
flour mixed with butter to soup ; boil 5 minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Mrs. C. Westcott. 

Give the growing children KNOX GELATINE. 



SOUPS 11 

FRENCH TOMATO SOUP. 

Take 1 quart of tomatoes, or 3 quarts of raw ones and 
place in an earthen vessel. Cut into this one small onion, boil 

2 hours and strain into 1 quart of beet stock. Before sending 
to table, thicken with 3 tablespoons corn starch, adding 1 tea- 
spoon celery salt. Serve with croutons. 

Mrs. Geo. L. Robinson. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

One pint milk, thickened with 1 heaping tablespoon flour, 
1 heaping tablespoon butter; add salt and paprika to taste. 
Heat 1 can prepared tomato soup, add pinch soda. 1 cup boil- 
ing water. Put all together and serve 'mmediately with chop- 
ped parsley on top. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

CANNED TOMATO SOUP. 

One peck ripe tomatoes, y'z dozen onions, 1 dozen whole 
cloves, 1 head celery, 1 green pepper. Cook all together until 
tender then strain through sieve. Mix i/< cup butter ; % cup 
salt; 54 cup sugar and ^ cup flour. Add to strained mix- 
ture ; let boil up and can. When serving add an equal amount 
of milk with a pinch of soda or equal amount of water. 

Mrs. Britt. 

STRAINED VEGETABLE SOUP WITH NOODLES. 

Cover 1 veal and 1 beef bone with water and add 6 good 
sized onions, 5 good sized carrots, 1 stalk celery, 1 parsnip, 
1 small or half a large head cabbage, 1 kernel garlic and salt 
to taste. Boil slowly about 3 hours. When about done add 1 
pint tomatoes and let all boil about 15 minutes. Take from 
fire and strain. Put back on fire and when it boils add as 
many noodles as desired and boil 15 minutes. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Cover 1 soup bone with water into which put a handful 
of salt ; bring to boil and skim. Add 1 carrot, 1 parsnip, cut 
fine. 1 handful rolled oats, good pinch dried parsley, 3 or 4 
potatoes, '.] or 4 tomatoes, 1 head celery, cut fine ; white pepper. 

3 large onions put in whole and taken out when soup is 
served. Boil 3 or 4 hours. A cup of split peas and a cup of 
rice in place of potatoes may be used, if desired. 

Mrs. Geo. E. McKean. 

Try KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE with the Lemon Flavor 



12 SOUPS 

TO BE SERVED WITH SOUP. 

Croutons : Cut stale bread in Yz inch slices ; cut off 
crusts, butter and cut in ^ inch cubes and brown in oven. 

Crisp Crackers: Split crackers and spread with butter, 
put in pan buttered side up and brown in hot oven. Nice 
with vegetable and oyster soups. 

QUICK VEGETABLE SOUP. 

2^ J. )unds round steak in a 1 large stalk celery 

slice /2 head of cabbage 

4 medium size potatoes 4 large carrots 

3 onions 1 can tomatoes 

Chop all vegetables fine and put meat and vegetables to- 
gether into kettle with 3 quarts of water. Let boil slowly 2 
hours, then lift meat out and it is ready to serve. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

To be served on cream soup — cut black walnut meats 
fine. 



The KNOX ACIDULATED package contains flavoring and coloring. 



Jisli 



You may fish in any water 
Be it river, sea, or lake ; 
But it makes a heap of difference 
Hozv you broil, or fry or bake. • 

— M. K. C. 
¥ 

BAKED FISH. 

Sprinkle the fish with salt and fill with stuffing, sew or 
skewer the edges together. Cut gashes on each side of fish 
and put strips of fat pork into them ; dredge with flour, salt 
and pepper and place in baking pan. Baste every 10 minutes. 
Serve with a sauce and garnish with parsley and sliced lemon. 
Add 3/2 cup of salted water in bottom of pan to keep from 
burning. 

Stuffing. 

Two cups of bread crumbs, ^ teaspoon salt, j/^ teaspoon 
white pepper, cayenne, 1 teaspoon onion juice, 1 teaspoon 
chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon capers, j4 cup melted butter. 

Mrs. C. Westcott. 

Sauce. 

One cup white sauce, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon chopped pars- 
ley, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 1 hard boiled egg (cut in pieces) 
White sauce, 1 tablespoon each of butter and flour. Rub to- 
gether, add salt, pepper, and 1 cup hot milk and stir until 
thick. Mrs. C. C. Curtis. 



BROILED FISH. 

Sear the fish first, then turn every 10 seconds. The 
length of time for cooking depends on the thickness of the 
fish. Season with butter, salt, pepper and garnish. 

Mrs. C. Westcott. 



Try KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE with the Lemon Flavor 

enclosed. 



14 



Eastman Kodaks 

Parker Fountain Pens 
Gilbert^ s Chocolates 

Lowney^s Chocolates 
Eaton Cranes Fine Stationery 

Trade at the Busy Corner 



C. A. WEAVER 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST 



PHONE 5101 Trumbull Ave. 

Glendale 6766 Corner Putnam 



i Norlhwau 1 156 Phone Orders Promptly Delivered 

^^''"'' ] Market 3626 

A. P. HILL 

Druggist 

5203 Third Ave., Cor. Merrick DETROIT 

Detroit Laundry 

Main Office and Works, 5223 Third Ave. 

TELEPHONE NORTHWAY 1136 



J. J.Tomkins Detroit, Mich. 



FISH 15 

HoUondaise Sauce. 

One-half cup butter, yolks of 2 eggs, 1^2 tablespoons lemon 
juice, y^ teaspoon salt, j/l> cup boiling water, a little cayenne. 
Cream butter, add the yolks one at a time, beat well and add 
lemon juice and bo'ling water, cook in double boiler until 
thick. Serve with halibut. This will serve eight. 

Mrs. C. Westcott. 
Tomato Sauce. 

One cup canned tomatoes, j/^ cup water, 1 clove, 1 allspice 
berry, 1 peppercorn, Y^ teaspoon mixed herbs, 1 spray of 
parsley, 1 tablespoon chopped onion, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 
tablespoons flour, salt and pepper. Put the tomatoes, water, 
spices, parsley and herbs into a sauce pan and cook until soft. 
Fry the onion in the butter until light brown, add the flour, 
with tomatoes and season'ng. gradually. Cook until it thick- 
ens and strain ; if too thick add more water. Serve with 
boiled white fish. Mrs. C. Westcott. 

FISH TURBOT. 

Boil whitefish 20 minutes. When done, remove bones, 
pick in pieces and place in layers, alternating fish and dress- 
ing, bake in dish or small cups, si)r nkle bread crumbs over 
top, bake brown. 

Dressing. 

Two even tablespoons butter, two rounding tablespoons 
Hour, cream together. Add 1 pint of hot milk, stirring all tTie 
time, salt, pepper and a few sprigs of parsley. 

Mrs. J. R. Kellie. 

SALMON TURBOT. 

One can of salmon broken fine, one onion cut fine. 

Sauce. 

Two tablespoons of flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 pint of 
milk, a little salt and pepper; when sauce cools, add 2 eggs. 
Put a layer of sauce in bottom of baker, then salmon and 
onion, and so on, sprinkle cracker crumbs on top and Ijake 
20 minutes to ^ hour. Mrs. W. B. Hazleton. 

SALMON TURBOT. 

One large can salmon, 2 shredded wheat biscuits, rolled 
fine, put in alternate layers and pour over a sauce made of 
1 tablespoon of butter, 1 tablespoon of flour, a little salt and 
a cofifee cup of milk. Bake ^^ hour. 

Mrs. T H. Warren. 



16 FISH 

SALMON LOAF. 

One small can of salmon (not juice), 4 tablespoons melt- 
ed butter, 4 eggs well beaten, J4 cup fine bread crumbs, pep- 
per and salt. Add bread crumbs to eggs, then add salmon 
and seasoning and butter. Put into a buttered pan and steam 
1 hour, serve hot. 

Dressing for Loaf. 

One tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup milk. 1 
egg, make like a gravy and pour over loaf when ready to 
serve. Mrs. Geo. McKean. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One can of salmon, drain liquor ofif in cup, pick salmon 
to pieces, add teaspoon salt (level) and a little pepper, 3 
tablespoons butter (after melted), 3 eggs, well beaten, one 
cup of bread crumbs and ^ cup of cream or milk. Mix well 
and bake ^ of an hour, in a greased pan. 

Dressing. 

Beat 1 tablespoon of flour smooth with water, beat yolk 
of 1 egg and add to it. Let 1 cup of milk and liquor off of 
salmon come to a boil and stir in the flour and egg, add 1 
tablespoon of butter, salt and pepper; turn salmon loaf out 
on a platter and pour dressing over it. 

Mrs. F. W. Morton. 

JELLIED SALMON. 

Mix together ^ teaspoon mustard, y^ teaspoon salt, 2 
tablespoons sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup rich milk, ^ cup 
vinegar. Cook in double boiler until thick. Remove from 
fire, add % tablespoon granulated gelatine which has soaked 
in 14 cup of cold water. Mix thoroughly with 1 can of sal- 
mon. Put in mold, set in ice-box to harden. 

Cucumber Sauce. 

Two tablespoons vinegar, ^ teaspoon of paprika, salt. 
Mix all together, add to 1 cup of cream, which has been beat- 
en stifif, 1 chopped cucumber. Mrs. E. L Chase. 



KNOX GELATINE makes Desserts, Salads, Candies, Puddings, 

Ices, Etc. 



FISH 17 

SALMON CHOPS. 

One can of salmon. 1 shredded wheat l)iscuit, 2 table- 
spoons of white sauce. Pick salmon in pieces, roll shredded 
wheat biscuit fine, add white sauce, make in pear shaped balls, 
roll in egg. then in shredded wheat biscuit, put a piece of mac- 
aroni in small end and fry. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 



QUICK DISH. 

Beat up 3 eggs very light, add a small can of salmon. 
Put in well buttered frying pan with pepper and salt and stir 
bghtly while cooking. Mrs. J. E. Warren. 



CREAMED CANNED TUNA FISH 

Heat 3 tablespoons of butter, 1 tablespoon of flour, stir 
into lyy cups of hot milk until smooth. Cook a sweet pep- 
per in water, add water to sauce, also 1 can of mushrooms. 
Break fish into small pieces, mix in sauce and pour on squares 
of toast. Cut the green pepper and a pimento into strips and 
garnish with alternate strips. Mrs. Wm. A. Snyder. 



SALMON SOUFFLE. 

Pint milk, 2 heaping tablespoons Henkel's flour, 2 heap- 
ing tablespoons butter, cook until thick. Add yolks of 3 eggs, 
cook 3 minutes. Add I can salmon and teaspoon of chopped 
onion, celery and parsley. Cook 2 minutes. Let cool, add 
beaten whites of 3 eggs. Bake in shallow mold ^ hour. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 



BAKED CRAB MEAT. 

Make sauce of 1 heaping tablespoon butter, 1 heaping 
tablespoon Henkel's fiour, salt, pepper and paprika ; add 1 S^ 
pints milks, let boil five minutes, after taken from fire add 
juice of 1 onion. Mix this sauce with 1 lb. cm crab meat and 
cover top with cracker crumb? and bake 30 m'nutes. One 
green pepper choi)ped fine may be added if desired. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard, 
^Frs. Harrv T. Freed. 



Simply add water and sugar to the KNOX A.CIDULATED pa:kage. 



IS FISH 

CODFISH BALLS. 

1 cup salt codfish V^ tablespoon butter 

2 heaping cups potato Pepper. 
1 egg 

Pick fish- in. small pieces, dice raw potato, put both t» 
cook in cold water. Cook until potatoes are soft. Drain well 
and mash thoroughly, add butter and beaten egg. Make in; 
croquettes, dip in flour, fry. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

LOBSTER SAUCE FOR FISH. 

4 tablespoons butter 1 pint boiling water 

3 tablespoons Henkel's flour ' Paprika 

Bring to a boil and add 2 tablespoons lemon juice and I 
small can diced lobster. Boil again and serve. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

LOBSTER CUTLET. 

Half GUp milk, 3 tablespoons butter and 2 tablespoons; 
flour made into white sauce. Add 1 well beaten egg, salt andl 
paprika and 1 cup bread crumbs. Heat thoroughly, add 1 
large can lobster, cut fine. Remove from fire and add 1 table- 
spoon lemon juice. Cool and shape in cutlets, dip in egg and 
crumbs, fry in deep fat- Mrs. E. I. Cliase, 



Pink Coloring for fancy desserts in each package of KNOX 
GELATINE. 



(iyattra 



CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Make a rich cream sauce with 1 pint milk, 2 taljlespoons 
butter, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 saltspoon salt and a little red 
pepper. Put the butter in a saucepan over the fire, and when 
^t bubbles, stir in the flour. When the two are smoothly 
blended, stir in the milk (which has been heated) a little at a 
time. Cook 2 minutes after thickening, then drop in the oys- 
ters and let them- cook until the edges curl; then add the salt 
and ])ei)per and serve hot on toast or salted crackers. 

Mrs. W. H. McClenahen. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

Select the largest and best oysters, drain and dry them; 
dip in beaten egg. roll in cracker crumbs, season with salt 
and pepper. Fry' in butter to which a little lard is added. 

Mrs. E. S. Stringer. 



OYSTER PATTIES. 

Two cups flour, -i tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon salt. Bake on outside of patty tins. 1 
quart oysters, 1 pint milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon 
flour Mix flour and milk together ; heat all to boilmg pomt 
and fill shells. Mrs. Robert Kerr. 



ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

One quart standard oysters, 1}^ cups cracker crumbs, V/2 
cups bread crumbs, yi cup melted butter, salt and pepper. 
Mix all together and add 1 pint of milk. 

Mrs. Eveard G. Hartwell. 



Try KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE with the Lemon Flavor 

enclosed. 



20 




The Sane Way 
of Cooking 

Tf you have never used 
an Electric Fireless 
Cooker you can hardly 
appreciate what deli- 
cious baked goods and 
roasts it makes. 

Being entirely auto- 
matic in operation you 
simply need turn a 
button and then forget 
your cooking until it's 
time to serve the meal. 

Central Electric Co. 

1514 BROADWAY 

' ' The Shop of Electric Wonders 



Special Attention 



SAFETY 
DEPOSIT 
BOXES 



is paid to our lady depositors. We will 
be pleased to have you open an account 
and receive a part in our co-operation 
and service 



Wayne County and Home 
Savings Bank 



22 OFFICES IN COVENIENT LOCATIONS 



iirata mh Poultry 



Cofiie gather 'round, my merry men. 

And come ye ladies, all; 
The meats are on the table 

In the spacious banquet hall. 
There are many lesser disJics, 

Small and dainty to be sure; 
But the meat, all brozvn and savory, 

Gives us strength that zvill endure. 

— M. K. C. 
¥ 

BEEF BALLS. 

One lb. beef; >^ lb. pork; 1 onion. Put through food 
chopper. Add >4 cup cracker crumbs, 1 egg, season with salt, 
pepper and pinch of nutmeg. Make into small balls. 

Have ready gravy made of 2 tablespoons butter, 1 table- 
spoon flour, water enough to thicken; drop balls into gravy 
and cook slowly >^ hour. Mrs. E. B. Pentz. 

SWISS STEAK. 

Have a round steak cut about 1 inch thick. Pound well 
to break down the fiber- Knead in all the flour it will hold; 
brown on both sides in melted butter, cover with cold water ; 
season and let simmer very slowly 2>< hours or until very 
tender Mrs. C. F. Shirts, Chicago. Ill- 

Mrs. Watson, Northport, Mich. 

SMOTHERED STEAK. 

Put a thick layer of sliced carrots and onions in a pan, 
season with salt, pepper and paprika; put in thick piece of 
round steak, size of pan, on top, then another layer of carrots 
and onion, turn a can of tomato juice over all ; cover and bake 
slowly about 2 hours. M''^- J- K- Warren. 

Simply add water and sugar to the KNOX ACIDULATED package. 



22 MEATS AND POULTRY 

BEEF LOAF. 

Two and % lbs. chopped beef; J4 lb. chopped pork; J/3 
loaf bread; ^^ cup milk; 2 eggs; 1 small stalk celery; 1 onion, 
salt and pepper. Mix well, meat, soaked bread, chopped cel- 
ery, and onion, milk and eggs well beaten. Form loaf and 
place in roasting pan. cover with sauce made of 1 pint water, 
1 pint tomatoes, ^ chopped sweet green pepper, salt and 
paprika. Bake 1 hour, basting often. 

Mrs. Harry M. Freed. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Two lbs. round steak; y2 lb. salt pork; ^ large loaf bak- 
er's bread; 1 onion; }i small can pimentoes ; 2 or 3 eggs; 1 
cup milk, salt and pepper. Put meat, onion and pimento 
through grinder, removing stringy parts. Crumb bread and 
soak crusts in cold water. Knead all ingredients together. 
Put in well greased pan and bake about an hour. 

Mrs. Henry Jessop- 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 

One lb. round steak; ^ pint water; ^4 lb. suet pastry; 
1 tablespoon flour, salt and pepper. Line a deep bowl, well 
buttered with suet paste, rolled 5^ inch thick. Put the flour 
with salt and pepper on a plate; cut the meat into strips 2^^ 
inches long and 1 inch thick; and the fat into very small 
pieces; roll each piece of meat in the seasoned flour; place a 
small piece of fat at the end of each piece and roll up. Place 
these in the bowl and pour over the water. The bowl mav be 
nearly filled. 

Wet the edges and cover with round piece of pastry; 
thoroughly seal the edges, cover with buttered paper and 
steam 1^ hours. Turn out and serve. 

Suet Pastry for Above. 

Shred and mince ^4 lb. suet, add J4 lb. flour, ^ teaspoon 
baking powder and j/4 teaspoon salt and enough cold w^ater 
to make into a paste which must not 1)e too stifif. 

Mrs. Henrv Hudson. 



KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE saves the cost, time and bother 
of squeezing lemons. 



MEATS AND POULTRY 23 

A TASTY MEAT DISH. 

Partly ivy a steak in a deep tryinj^ pap. (The cheaper 
icuts may be used this way.) Slice 1 onion, 1 or 2 tomatoes, 
:^ or 3 pieces of celery and some green pepper if you desire- 
Put these on top of steak, season weJl with salt, pepper and 
paprika; cover with water aJid k-t cook an hour or more- 
Cover pan. After taking- out naeat, thicken gravy with a lit- 
;tle flour ajid ])our over meat. Mrs. J. E, Warren. 

A CASSEROLE ROAST WITH VEGETABLES. 

Brown a thick i)iece of meat from the rumj) (about 1 
;lbs.j on Ijotli sides, in hot fat. Transfer to a casserole. Place 
around it carrots, turnips and onions, cut into small bits- 
Add enough water or stock to cover the vegetables. Cover 
and cook very slowly for 4 hours. 

Hazel Fisher JVlarshick, 

MACARONI AND BEEF. 

1 package macaroni 1 lb. cho])})ed beef 

2 cups tomatoes (sweet- 5 onions chopped fine 

ened) Salt and pepper 

5^ lb. cheese 

Boil macaroni, fry onions and meat together but do nol 
brown. Add salt, pe])])er and other ingredients. Bake half 
hour. Mrs. A. L. Cowan. 

HUNGARIAN GOULASH. 

One tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon flour, browned. 
To this add 1 onion, 1 carrot. 1 green pepper (.seeds removed^ 
and 4 large tomatoes, chopped fine. Add about 3 lbs. beet, 
cut hi squares ; season with salt and pepper. Let this sim- 
mer 2 hours, closely covered. When rtiady to serve have 2 
cups of cooked spaghetti to put over it. 

Mrs. Chas. J. Conzelman. 

SAVORY STEW WITH KETCHUP. 

Cut l!/2 lbs. round steak into pieces 2 inches square and 
brown on both sides in fat ; add 1 pint water, 1 sliced onion. 
1 tablespoon ketchup, salt and pepper to taste. Cover closely 
and cook slowly until meat is tender. 

Chili sauce or a few tomatoes sliced and added after meat 
is partly done may be used instead of ketchup. 

Beef liver and bacon may be cooked as above. 

Airs. O. J. Marshick. 



24 MEATS AND POULTRY 

IRISH STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Cut 1)2 lbs. l)eef or mutton (or both) in cubes. Try out 
suet in frying pan and saute meat, which has been dredged 
in flour, until it is well seared. Cover meat with boiling 
water and boil fast ?> minutes, then lower temperature; boil 
^ or 1 hour. Add carrots, onion and turnips (about 2 cups 
altogether) and 3 or 4 potatoes cut small and boil until vef^- 
etables are cooked. 

RECIPE FOR DUMPLINGS (Will never fail to be light). 

Two cups Henkel's sifted flour; 4: teaspoons Royal bak- 
ing jjowder ; ^^ teaspoon salt ; 2 teaspoons butter ; j/4 cup 
milk. Sift dry ingredients. Work in butter with tips of 
fingers or knife, then add milk- More milk may be necessary. 
Drop from spoon into stew, which must be kept boiling and 
cook exactly 12 minutes- Mrs. Wm. Ryan. 

MEAT BALLS IN CABBAGE JACKETS. 

Make raw chopped meat into balls ; wrap each ball in a 
new cabbage leaf, tying with cord. Put in pan and brown 
carefully in butter ; then add ^ cup boiling water, cover and 
cook 1 hour on slow fire. Add more water if needed. 

Mrs. Van der Noot. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Cover 5 lbs. beef (brisket with bone removed) with water 
to which add 5 teaspoons sugar, 5 tablespoons salt and salt- 
peter size of a large pea ; let stand 24 hours. Cook ^ hours 
in this brine. Mrs. C. F. Shirts, Chicago, 111. 

CORNED BEEF HASH. 

Chop iy2 cups potatoes and 1 cup cooked corned beef, 
fine; add % cup of cream (or milk may be used), salt and 
pepper to taste- Put in baking dish, with ^ cup butter on 
top and bake y^ hour. Mrs. Curtis. 

LAMB CROQUETTES. 

Take cold lamb, chop finely and bind together with white 
sauce, 1 teaspoon grated onion, salt and paprika. Make into 
balls, roll in flour; fry. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

KNOX GELATINE makes dainty desserts for dainty people. 



Pioneer Laundry 


Co. 


Exclusive Family Service 




MCGRAW & LOVETT 




JOHN KALBFLEISCK, President 


Walnut 5483 



25 




Photographic 
Portraiture 

Modern light 
manipulation with 
artistic taste — 
moderately priced. 

ESPECIALLY OF 
CHILDREN 

The 

C. V. Holsbeke 

Co. 

STUDIOS 

3529 Woodward Ave. 

NEAR STIMSON 

GLENDALE 706 

For Appointment 



Strictly Fresh Epgs and 
Very Best Butter 



Fresh and Smoked Meats 
Phone Glendale 2724-W 



CHAS. UELSMANN, Jr. 

Strictly Cash Grocer 



4568 Trumbull Ave. 



DETROIT, MICH. 



26 MEATS AND POULTRY 

DELICIOUS VEAL. 

Take a veal steak about 1 inch thick, cut in pieces just 
large enough for one service. If parts seem stringy, fasten 
together with toothpicks. Dip veal first in beaten egg, then 
in well seasoned bread crumbs. Have a spider piping hot 
with ^ inch fat in bottom. Fry veal quickly on both sides 
until nice brown ; then pour in enough milk to almost cover 
veal, cover tightly and place in slow oven about 1 hour- The 
last 15 minutes remove cover so veal will be crip. Prepared 
in this way, veal is as tender as spring chicken. 

Mrs. E. B. Pentz. 

VEAL OMELET. 

Chop finely 3 lbs. veal, add 6 rolled crackers (large), 3 
eggs, well beaten, 3 tablespoons cream, 1 tablespoon salt 
and 1 teaspoon white pepper. Mix all well together ; form 
into 2 loaves ; baste with bvitter and water while baking. 
Bake 1^^ hours. Mrs. Mac H. Wallace. 

VEAL LOAF AND SOUR GRAVY. 

One lb. chopped beef, 1 lb. chopped veal, 1 cup cracker 
crumbs, 3 eggs, grated lemon peel. Slice onions, place in 
pan, lay loaf on top of onions, put strips of bacon on top. 
Put about 1 inch water in pan, in which put some mixed 
spices ; baste often. 

When ready to serve add 1 cup sour cream and juice 
of 1 lemon and flour to thicken to spicy water, mix well, 
strain and serve with loaf. Mrs. J. K. Stock. 

JELLIED VEAL LOAF. 

One shank of veal, boiled vnitil meat drops fr(;m bone: 
remove all bone and gristle, chop fine and season. Slice 2 
lemons and place around sides and bottom of mold. Fill 
with the chopped meat and pour over it enough of the strained 
liquid to cover meat well. Set away in cold jilace to harden.- 

Mrs. Arthur Montgomery. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Cook ^ cup flour in y^ cup butter. Add gradually 1 cup 
veal stock, ^ cup milk, stir until smooth and thick. Salt, 
pepper. Add 1 beaten &gg, 2 cups finely chopped and cooked 
veal. Cook until thoroughly heated. Remove from fire, chill. 
Dip in egg and crumbs. Let stand 1 hour. Fry in deep fat. 
Serve with white sauce. One pound serves seven. 

Mrs. G. F. Bean. 



MEATS AND POULTRY 27 

JELLIED TONGUE AND VEAL. 

Soak a pickled ox tonj^uc in water for 1"2 hours, then 
boil until tender. Remove the skin and cut off all root and 
tip. Bone a breast of veal and spread it very flat and rtib 
with salt and pepper. Lay the tongue in the center of veal 
and roll up edges. Wrap this securely in thin muslin and 
place in an earthen dish \vith a seasoning of 6 cloves, 1 onion, 
a stalk of celery, a few sprigs of parsley, more salt and pep- 
per and a cup of hot water. Cover the dish and bake in a 
moderate oven 3 hours. Take from dish, place between 2 
plates with a weight on top. When cold remove the cloth, 
put the meat in a mold and pour over it the stock which has 
been strained. Set aside to harden. Slice cold. 

Mrs. M. R. Stu1)ensky. 

CURRIED VEAL STEAK WITH RICE. 

Cut 3 lbs. veal in small pieces, free from skin, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and fiour and fry in butter, slowly, until 
a nice brown. Put into another pan a piece of butter size 
of an egg, slice in a small onion and brown, then add large 
tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon sugar and salt, heaping teaspoon 
curry powder. Now add V4 cup cold water, 1 cup cooked 
tomatoes and let all come to boiling point; strain, pour over 
veal and let simmer ^ hour. Before taking up stir in 3^ cup 
sweet cream. 

Cook 1 lb. rice in 1 quart cold water, 20 minutes. Drain 
in colander, then let cold water run through. Put in double 
boiler and steam 2 hours. 

To serve, make a deep border of rice on a large platter, 
putting veal and gravy inside. Mrs. Wurster. 

PORK TENDERLOIN. 

Pork Tenderloins Frenched. Roll in flour, egg and plenty 
of corn flakes. Salt and pepper. Put in pan with a little water 
and bake 45 minutes. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SAUSAGE. 

1 cup cottage cheese 3-4 teasjjoon j^owdercd sage 
1 cup bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful salt 

% cup peanut butter % teaspoonful pepper 

54 cup chopped peanut ^ teaspoonful soda 

meats 1 tablespoon chopped on'on 

FOUR PINTS of jelly in each package of KNOX GELATINE. 



28 MEATS AND POULTRY 

Mix dry ingredients thoroughly with bread crumlis- 
Blend the peanut butter and onion with the cheese and mix 
with bread crumbs. Form into flat cakes, dust with bread 
crumbs or corn meal and fry a delicate brown in a little fat 
in a hot frying pan. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

BAKED TENDERLOIN OF PORK. 

Take 2 strips of tenderloin of pork and wipe clean with 
a damp cloth. Make a stuffing of stale bread crumbs, highly 
seasoned with onion, sage, pepper, salt and melted butter. 
Moisten with milk or melted butter. Place stuffing l^etween 
the 2 tenderloins, tie all together and bake in a moderate 
oven until done, basting often with melted butter. 

Mrs. J. E. Warren. 

VEAL BIRDS. 

Cut veal steak into oblongs 2 inches wide and about i 
inches long. On each oblong lay a small piece of sliced 
bacon. Soak some white bread in cold water, squeeze dry 
and add a piece of butter, a little grated onion, salt and pep- 
per. Put a large tablespoonful of this dressing on each ob- 
long of veal and bacon. Roll each up and tie securely with 
string; fry in butter on both sides until a nice brown, then 
add enough cold water to almost cover the rolls. Let these 
simmer 1^ hours (adding cold water as needed) ; then add 
Yi pint cream and let simmer 20 minutes ; then add Vz can 
small button ^mushrooms and simmer 10 minutes longer. 
vSlightly thicken the gravy with cornstarch. Remove strings 
and serve the rolls on half slice of toast. 

Mrs. Helen Chase Straesser. 

BAKED PORK CHOPS. 

Take rib pork chops, put in baking pan and slice onions 
over each chop, season with salt and pepper and dust with 
flour. Pour over enough water to almost cover ; put in a 
medium hot oven and bake Y^ hour, basting often. This is 
also good, using dressing between two chops. 

Mrs. E. B. Pentz. 

BAKED FRESH HAM. 

Take a 10-lb. fresh ham ; have all the bone taken out 
and make a dressing of bread crumbs, little onion, pinch of 
sage and a little salt. Put in place of bone ; cut the rind in 
dice. Bake in a slow oven 4 hours. Mrs. F. Emmons. 

KNOX GELATINE improves soups and gravies. 



MEATS AND POULTRY 29 

HAM AND VEAL ROAST. 

Two slices of ham and 1 of veal. Put veal betv^een ham 
and fasten together with skewers. Put a piece of butter on 
top of ham, pour over ^ cup water. Bake covered, in slow 
oven, until tender. Remove cover to brown. Make a brown 
gravy to pour over meat when serving. 

Mrs. Fannie Ward Lester- 

A NICE WAY TO COOK HAM. 
Take a center cut of ham, 1 or I3/2 inches thick; parboil. 
Drain, cover with fresh water and cook very slowly in a 
tightly covered spider, 2^4 hours. Remove cover and brown. 

Mrs. A. Montgomery. 

BAKED HAM. 

Parboil ham. Make a paste of 1 tablespoon dry mustard, 
2 tablespoons brown sugar and enough cider or vinegar to 
spread well. Cover ham with paste, stick cloves itito ham. 
Brown in oven about 3^ hour. Add boiling water to prevent 
burning if necessary. Pour the gravy over ham when done. 

Mrs. G. F. Bean. 

HAM AND ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Put a slice of ham (about 1 inch thick) in the bottom 
of a basin, cover with a layer of potatoes and a sprinkle of 
onion cut fine, a little salt and pepper and small pieces of 
butter. Put in 2 layers of potato; then cover all with milk 
and bake 1% hours in slow oven. EUyn Reed Goddard. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE AND MEAT. 

Two cups cooked meat, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon 
pepper, % teaspoon onion juice, 1 tablespoon chopped pars- 
ley, 1 egg, /4 cup fine crumbs, -4 cups cooked rice. Season 
the meat and mix with the crumbs and beaten Qgg ; add 
enough stock to make it pack easily. Line a well buttered 
mold or dish with 3 cups of rice, fill with the meat and cover 
with remainder of rice. Cover tightly and steam 45 minutes. 
Serve with tomato sauce. Mrs. C. Westcott. 

A WAY TO USE LEFT OVER MEATS. 

Put scraps of cold meat through chopper (there should 
be about 1^ cups) ; bcul ^ package of macaroni, add this to 
the meat with 2 cups of tomato sauce seasoned with cayenne, 
paprika, onion and a little mushroom ketchup. Put in a bak- 
ing dish, cover with bread crumbs and brown in oven. 

Mrs. Thomas. 



30 MEATS AND POULTRY 

KIDNEYS WITH NOODLES. 

Clean kidney and boil in salt water, changing water 
several times. When tender, dice and fry in pan of butter, 
little onion, pinch of caraway seed ; add enough flour to make 
nice gravy. 

Boil noodles in soup stock or salt water. When ready 
to serve, drain noodles, place on hot platter and add the kid- 
ney and gravy. Serve hot, with or without toast. 

Mrs. Jerome K. Stock. 

CHILI CON CARNE. 

Two lbs. round steak cut in cubes, 2 teaspoons paprika, 
and fry until dark brown, using suet to fry in. Put in deep 
pan and add 3 or 4 onions chopped, 5 medium sized potatoes 
cut in cubes, 1 tablespoon salt, 3 or 4 chili peppers chopped 
fine (after seeds are removed). Cover with water and let 
boil thoroughly. When nearly ready to serve add 1 can kid- 
ney beans and enough flour to make like thin cream. 

Mrs. W. B. Hazelton. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Put into a basin, IJ/2 cups flour and 1 salt spoon of salt; 
stir in 1 pint of milk gradually ; beat 2 eggs and add to the 
batter, when quite smooth. Let this stand 2 hours, then add 
a pinch of baking powder and pour into dripping pan, with 
some melted drippings. Bake 3^j hour. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Whittingham. 

SUET DUMPLINGS. 

Two cups of bread flour, 1 cup suet, 2 rounding teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 level teaspoon salt, 1 egg and ^ cup water. 
Sift flour, baking powder and salt together, then add suet, 
egg and water. Cook in veal or beef stew for ^ hour. 

Mrs. A. L. Jones. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

One chicken, cooked until tender. Cut fine, pour over 
yi cup of broth. Make sauce of 1 pint cream, 1 egg, 3 tea- 
spoons cornstarch. Cook same as custard. Chop 1 thin slice 
of onion, 3 stalks celery and a little parsley together. Put in 
a dish a layer of the sauce, chicken, vegetables and thin layer 
of bread crumbs, until dish is filled. Shake a little salt be- 
tween each layer and bake 5^ hour. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

See that the name K-N-O-X is on each package of gelatine you buy. 



The Purest ana 


Freshest 


Mtlk in the City 


"Save 


The 


Babies" 




BY USING 1 


CLEAN MILK 




CLARIFIED 


from 




and 


HEALTHY COWS 


AT THE 


PASTEURIZED 


RiSDON Creamery 


WALNUT 1793 




6527 LINWOOD AVE. 



31 



Dennen's Book Shop 

37 EAST GRAND RIVER 

FINE Editions of all Standard 
W^orks, Latest Fiction, 
Juvenile Books, Cards, Stationery, 
Wedding Announcements. 



George H. Bee dell 

FRESH AND SALT MEATS 

Poultry and Fish 

5109 TRUMBULL AVE. 

GLENDALE 6866 



A. P. COLLARD 

plumbing anb ^eating 

REPAIRING AND REMODELING 

PHONE 5125 TWELFTH ST. 

WALNUT 2764 CORNER PUTNAM AVENUE 



32 MEATS AND POULTRY 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Two level tablespoons flour, 3 level tablesi)oons butter, 
y^. teaspoon salt, ^4 saltspoon pepper, 1 cup milk, 1^^ cups 
of cooked chicken, 8 hard boiled eggs. Melt the butter, add 
the flour and seasoning and then the milk; stir until it th'ck- 
ens. Add the meat, yolfcs of eggs chopped fine, and whites 
cut in larger pieces. Cook 3 minutes and serve. 

Mrs. J. D. Wiley. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN. 

Cut U}) chicken. Cover with ct)ld water, then cook slowly 
until tender. When about half done season with salt and 
pepper. Thicken gravy, serve with hot baking powder bis- 
cuit. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cook chicken same as for fricassee. Then put chicken 
and gravy in baking pan. Cover with biscuit crust, cutting 
hole in center for steam to come out. Bake in oven. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

ROAST QUAIL OR PARTRIDGE. 

Pluck and dress like chicken, wipe clean and rub inside 
and out with salt and pejiper; stufl:' with any of the dress'ngs. 
Spread with butter, roast in hot oven, steady heat, turning 
often and basting with salted water, butter and pep])er. Roast 
three-quarters of an hour. Mrs. W. W. Hall. Toledo. 

BROILED QUAIL. 

Split down back, placing on broiler inside down, broil 
slowly at first, basting with butter often. Serve on pieces of 
toast with currant jelly. Mrs. W. W. Hall, Toledo. Ohio. 

ESCALLOPED CHICKEN. 

Cook 1 large chicken until tender. Cut 3 potatoes in 
squares and boil until tender. When cool, dice chicken, add 
1 can peas, without liquor, 2 cans button mushrooms and 
cooked potatoes. 

Make a sauce, using part of chicken grease and l^r/.tcr, 
3 tablespoons cornstarch and 1 quart of milk and stir well 
into mixture. Season and put into a large baking pan and 
bake ^ to 1 hour. May be served in patty shells or rame- 
kins. Will serve 16 people nicely. 

Mrs. Geo. E. McKean. 

Simply add water and sugar to the KNOX ACIDULATED package. 



MEATS AND POULTRY 33 

MARYLAND CHICKEN. 

Prepare a spring chicken as for frying. Djp each piece 
in egg and cracker crumbs, lay in a double roaster. Pour 
^ cup boiling water over ^ cup butter; pour this over each 
piece of chicken. Bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. J. R. Fisher. 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE. 

One pint cooked chicken, finely chopped, 1 pint cream 
sauce, 4 eggs, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, salt and pepper. 
Stir chicken and seasoning into boiling sauce, cook 2 min- 
utes. Add yolks of eggs, well beaten, then set away to cool. 
When cold, add whites of eggs beaten to a froth; turn into 
buttered dish, bake Yz hour. Serve with mushroom sauce. 
This dish must be served the moment it is baked. 

Mrs. C. C. Curtis. 

CHICKEN CHOP SUEY. 

Take breast of chicken, cut up fine ; 2 square inches of 
bamboo shoot ; 8 pieces of water chestnuts ; 3 celery hearts ; 
3^ can French mushrooms. Slice all ingredients thin. Have 
a hot pan braised with peanut oil and add all ingredients, 
then add salt and chop suey sauce, and simmer 5 minutes. 

After taking meat from chicken, use bones to make 
stock. When other ingredients are nearly done, put in the 
stock, cover the pan and cook 5 minutes. Just before dish- 
ing up, thicken with a little flour. Henry Lee. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

Soak sweetbreads in cold salted water over night. Drain 
and boil in fresh water until tender, then remove all particles 
of skin or fat. Cover with white sauce, well seasoned, and 
serve on toast or in patty shells. 

Mrs. Harry M. Freed. 

SWEETBREADS AND MUSHROOMS. 

Cover 1 lb. sweetbreads with water, add 1 small onion 
finely diced ; cook slowly 1 hour, taking care sweetbreads do 
not burn. When tender, make white sauce (using 3^ milk and 
y2 cream) ; add 1 lb. French button mushrooms and 3/ tea- 
spoon celery salt. Cook slowly until sauce begins to bubble. 
Serve in ])astry ramekins. \"evia F. Crossley. 

KNOX GELATINE is measured ready for use — each package is 
divided into two envelopes. 



24 MEATS AND POULTRY 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Select turkey weighing from 13 to 14 lbs. Thoroughly 
clean it, removing oil-bag, all glands and pipes in neck and 
extra leaves of fat. Singe and wipe inside and out with damp 
cloth. Dredge inside with salt and pepper. Put 3 or 3 spoons 
of dressing in the craw and the remainder in the body, 
being careful not to pack it in. Sew up, twist back wings, 
rub all over with butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper ; 
lay on side in seamless baker ; add 3 cups of water and a little 
salt and bake in a hot oven 15 minutes, after which reduce 
heat 3/^ and bake about 3 hours, opening oven as infrequently 
as possible, to baste or add water. When done to a rich 
brown, remove turkey to a platter and keep covered with 
baker cover until time to serve. Mrs. C. F. Wetzel. 

ROAST GOOSE OR DUCK. 

If a wild duck, first parboil for 15 minutes after cleaning. 
Otherwise proceed as for roasting a chicken. Singe, clean 
(and remove some of the pieces of fat from a goose). Make 
a dressing of bread, apples (peeled and cut up in small pieces) 
and butter. Fill with dressing and lace up, by sticking tooth- 
picks across and lacing with string, which is easily removed. 
Roast about 3 hours or 3^/2 hours for a large goose. Lower 
heat after first half hour. Baste and add water as needed. 
Let the gravy brown. If a goose pour off the fat. Make a 
giblet gravy. Boil the giblets (heart, liver and gizzard) until 
tender. Chop fine, use food chopper. When roast is ready, 
remove and proceed to make gravy. Add a little boiling water, 
if necessary. Thicken and add the giblets, chopped. Apple 
sauce, currant jelly or any tart conserve goes nicely with this. 

Helen C. Straesser. 

ROAST HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

Wipe with damp cloth ; rub over with melted butter, 
then cover top and sides with a thick paste of flour and water 
^ inch thick. Lay a coarse paper over all and put to roast 
with 1 cup of water in pan. Baste with butter and water. 

Twenty minutes before serving, remove paste, dredge 
with flour and baste with butter until a light brown. Add a 
pinch of cloves, nutmeg, cayenne and a few blades of mace 
to gravy. Mrs. Geo. S. Field. 

KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE— no bother— no trouble— no 
squeezing lemons. 



MEATS AND POULTRY 35 

MOCK CHICKEN LEGS. 

One pound veal steak cut thick ; pound ; cut in narrow, 
eight inch strips. Stick sharp end of meat skewer through 
one end and wrap around skewer. Dip in egg and roll in 
crnml)s twice. ^Fry slowly in butter. Mrs. G. F. Bean. 

RABBIT. 

Skin rabbit, cut in j)'eces. Soak in salted water six 
hours, changing water once. Parlxiil in salted water until 
fork goes in easily, drain, roll in Hour, fry in deep butter or 
substitute. Season with salt and pepper. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

For fricassee or pie soak and parl)oil as above and cook 
same as chicken. 

MOCK PIGEONS. 

Half pound chopped round steak. X' pound chopped fresh 
pork. Mix well, season. Divide in four parts, flatten in strips 
about y2 inch thick. Make a dressing of 1 cup bread crumbs, 
sage, salt, pepper and onion. Add yolk of 1 egg and moisten 
with water. Spread the dressing on the four pieces of meat, 
fold over and shape like birds. Use potato to make wings 
and legs. Put piece of butter on each, bake 1}^ hours, thick- 
en gravy and pour over birds. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 



TONGUE CROQUETTES. 

Chop fine 2 cups boiled macaroni, mix 1 scant cup dev- 
iled tongue. 1 cup thick white sauce, salt, pepper, onion juice. 
Shape, roll in egg and crumbs, fry quickly in deep hot fat. 
Serve with tomato sauce. Mrs. G. F. Bean. 



JELLIED MEAT. 

One shank each of beef and veal and 1 large pork hock. 
Boil unt'l meat falls ofif bones. When cool, cut meat in pieces 
and season with salt and pepper. Put meat back into the 
liquor and boil down until meat is extremely tender. Pour 
into molds and cool. Mrs. R. J. Cirier. 



Where recipes call for Gelatine use KNOX GELATINE. 



36 



We're Proud 

OF ''DIAMOND N'^ QUALITY 

It's not a Word — It's a Habit 
ONE TASTE 

And you too will be enthusiastic 

HAM BACON 

Choicest Cuts 
BEEF- PORK "LAMB- VEAL 

The 

Packing House Market 

of the 

Newton Packing Co. 

14th and Putnam Avenues 
Walnut 4356 WE DELIVER 



'tuflftnga 



DRY STUFFING FOR POULTRY. 

'Two cups soft bread crumbs, ^4 cup melted butter, 1 
tablespoon poultry seasoning, salt and pepper. Mix ingre- 
dients in order given 
« If a moi§t stufBng is desired, add sufficient hot water to 
above to make right consistency. 

If onion is liked, a few drops of onion juice may be 
added, or if stronger flavor is desired, cook 1 tablespoon of 
clK)i)pcd onion in butter and add to either stuffings. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR POULTRY. 

One pint fine bread crumbs, ] pint shelled and boiled 
Spanish chestnuts, chopped very fine, salt, pepper and chopped 
])ars!ev to season, ^^ cup melted butter. 
Oyster Stuffing. 
Substitute 1 pint small, raw oysters, washed and picked 
over, for chestnuts in foregoing recipe. 
Celery Stuffing. 
Substitute finely cut celery for chestnuts. 

POTATO STUFFING. 

Two cups hot mashed potatoes, % cup salt pork cut in 
cubes, 2 tablespoons onions, chopped, 1 teaspoon poultry 
seasoning, salt, pepper and 1 cup cooked sausage, cut in 
pieces. 

Cook onion and pork until brown, add remaining mgre- 

PORK SAUSAGE STUFFING. 

Two large cups stale bread crumbs, 5^ lb. sausage meat 
(or meat taken from links), salt, pepper, 1 teaspoon poultry 
seasoning, 1 egg. Mix thoroughly bread crumbs and sausage, 
working it with fingers, add seasoning, then egg, slightly 
beaten. 

STUFFING FOR VEAL. 

Three cups stale bread crumbs, ;■. onions, chopped fine, 
1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, pepper and 
^ cup melted butter or suet. 

STUFFING FOR PORK. 

Three large onions, parboiled and chopped, 2 cups fine 
bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons powdered sage, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter or pork fat, salt and pepper to taste. 

Selected. 



MmtB ani» tttftr iRelial|pa 



Roast beef, grated horse-radish. 

Roast veal, tomato or mushroom sauce. ^ 

Boiled mutton, caper sauce. 
Roast lamb, mint sauce. 
> Boiled bluefish, white cream sauce. 
Fresh salmon, green peas. 
Venison or wild ducks, black currant jelly. 
Broiled fresh mackerel, sauce of stewed gooseberries. 
Roast pork, apple sauce. 
Roast mutton, currant jelly. 
Boiled chicken, bread sauce. 
Roast turkey, cranberry sauce. 
Broiled shad, boiled rice and salad. 
Roast goose, apple sauce. 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKING. 
Roasting. 

It takes 15 minutes for the meat to get warmed through, 
so the time is reckoned after that. 

Beef, rare, per pound 13 to 15 minutes 

Beef, well done, per pound 15 to 18 minutes 

Lamb, per pound • • 18 minutes 

Veal, per pound 20 minutes 

Pork, per pound • ■ 30 minutes 

Turkey, 10 pound 3 hours 

Chicken, 4 pound • • 2 hours 

Goose, S pound 2 hours 

Duck • • 40 to 60 minutes 

Game 30 to 40 minutes 

Boiling. 

Mutton, per pound 15 minutes 

Corned beef, per pound 30 minutes 

Ham, per pound ....•• 20 minutes 

Chicken, per pound 15 minutes 

Fowl, per pound 20 to 30- minutes 

Tripe, per pound 3 to 5 hours 

Use KNOX GELATINE— the two quart package. 



MEATS AND THEIR RELISHES 39 

Broiling. 

Steak, 1 inch thick 8 to 20 minutes 

Steak, lj/2 inches thick 10 to 15 minutes 

Mutton chops, French 8 minutes 

Mutton chops, English 10 minutes 

Spring- Chicken 20 minutes 

Quail 8 to 10 minutes 

Grouse 15 minutes 

Squabs 10 to 15 minutes 

Shad, Bluefish, Trout 15 to 25 minutes 

Small Fish 5 to 10 minutes 



FOUR PINTS of jelly in each package of KNOX GELATINE. 



Mmt mh 3xBi) BmxttB 



WHITE OR CREAM SAUCE. 

Put 1 lablespoon each of butter and flour in saucepan 
over fire. When mixed without browning add ^ teaspoon 
salt and ^ teaspoon white pepper, then gradually 1 cup milk. 
Stir until smoothly thickened and simmer for 3 minutes. 

One-half cup of veal or chicken stock and ^ cup milk 
may be used to make above, if desired. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

In saucepan brown 1 tablespoon butter until dark, but 
not burned. Add 1 tablespoon flour, stir and brown again. 
Add gradually 1 cup good stock (beef is best) or hot water 
and stir until smooth and thick. Season with salt and pep- 
per to taste ; simmer 5 minutes. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

One-third cup butter. 2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup water. 
"Melt ^ the butter and rub into flour until smooth and add 
water, pepper and salt. When cooked add rest of butter. 

Mrs. J. E. Warren. 

To the white and drawn butter sauces add : 

For Cucumber Sauce: % cup of chopped cucumber 
pickles. Used for fish or boiled lamb. 

For Egg Sauce: Two hard boiled eggs, cut in slices. 
For boiled fish. 

For Caper Sauce: One-half cup capers. Used for boiled 
laml). 

For Parsley Sauce: As much parsley as you desire, 
chopped fine. 

For Lemon Sauce: The juice of 1 lemc^n. 

Mrs. J. E. Warren. 



KNOX GELATINE solves the problem of "What to have for 

dessert?" 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 41 

BREAD SAUCE. 

One quart milk. 1 small loaf baker's bread, 1 good sized 
onion, butter size vi an t'gg, salt and pepper. 

Cut the onion up tine, add to milk and heat in double 
boiler until scalding hot ; add butter, salt and pepper. Cut 
the crusts from bread and crumb the loaf in the milk until 
it makes a thick sauce. This sauce is for chicken or turkey. 

Mrs. C. P. Savigny. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Eight tablespoons sugar. 6 tablespoons vinegar, 5 table- 
spoons chopped mint; salt. Mix and let stand' 3 or 4 hours, 
and serve with roast lamb. Mrs. K. I. Chase. 



KNOX GELATINE is economical— FOUR PINTS in each package. 



42 



SHAMPOOING 






HAIR AND SCALP 


FACIAL MASSAGE 






TREATMENT 


MANICURING 






By "Harper Method' 


9lllM 


^/Lan<ZM 


CJafli 


Wy^ 


SUITE 502, FISHER ARCADE 
Woodward Avenue 
CADILLAC 1748 






Woodward Arcade, Branch: 
610 WOODNk^ARD ARCADE 
Miss Ethel Frankland in charge 

MAIN 5745 



How Much Do Your. Savings Earn? 

Invest Where You Get the Best Rate 
of Interest Consistent With Safety 

WE PAY 



57„ 



Compounded Semi- Annually 

$1.00 STARTS AN ACCOUNT 

Add to or Withdraw at any time 

Detroit and Northern Michigan 
Building and Loan Association 

25 CLIFFORD STREET 



Courtesy Q uality S ervice 

The constant endeavor to give the utmost 
in both quality and service has been the dom- 
inant factor in the wonderful growth of the 

Mills Baking Company 



4th .Avenue and Merrick 



Olendale 7390 



3v\nns, Hafflrs mh Panrakra 



Fritters zee have — a golden brown, 
And the best pancakes in the tozvn. 

— M. K. C. 



BAKED APPLES. 

(To be served with meat.) 

Core apples and bake until tender, allowing 2 tablespoons 
sii,q-ar to each apple. When done, fill center with marsh- 
mallow creme. ^Irs. Webster Kay. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Core apples; allo\v 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon 
raisins to each apple. Bake until tender. 

Another way: Core apples, put sausage in center. Bake 
slowly. Mrs. Frank Lappan. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

One and one-third cups Henkel's flour; -/^ cup milk; 2 
teaspoons Royal baking powder; 1 &gg; yi teaspoon salt; 2 
medium sized apples. Mix and sift dry ingredients, stir in milk 
slowly ; then add egg well beaten. Mix well. Pare, core apples 
and cut into small pieces. Stir well into the batter. Drop by 
spoonfuls in hot fat. Drain on light 1)rown paper; sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Olive Scott. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Two cups scraped or canned corn, 2 beaten eggs, ^ cup 
Henkel's flour, 1 rounding teaspoon Royal baking powder, 
^ teaspoon salt, pinch of pepper, J^ cup milk, 1 tablespoon 
melted butter. Sift dry ingredients thoroughly, rub in but- 
ter and add the liquids. Beat well and fry as pancakes- 
Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

Ask your grocer for KNOX GELATINE— take no other. 



44 FRITTERS, WAFFLES AND PANCAKES 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

One egg, lYz cups Hcnkel's flour. 1 teaspoon Royal bak- 
ing- powder, 3 tablespoons powdered sugar, 34 teaspoon salt, 
Yt, cup milk. Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk grad- 
ually, then egg, well beaten. Cut oranges small, stir in. Fry 
in hot fat. 

Bananas may be used in place of oranges- 
Sauce. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup water ; boil 10 minutes, flavor. 
Serve over fritters. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

WAFFLES. 

Two cups Henkel's flour. 2 teaspoons Royal baking pow- 
der, lA teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 eggs, 1]/ cups 
milk. Mix dry ingredients and sift 3 times. Cut in butter. 
Separate the yolks and whites of eggs and add milk to the 
yolks. Add this mixture to the dry ingredients and fold in 
the whites of eggs. If batter is too stiff, thin with milk. 
Batter should pour. Miss Sparks. 

RAISED WAFFLES. 

One pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 yeast cake, flour. Stir 
to a stiff batter. Stand over night- In morning add scant 
34 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 2 tablespoons warm water. 2 
tablespoons melted butter, 3 eggs well beaten. If too thick, 
thin with milk. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

ADIRONDACK PANCAKES. 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs until light and creamy ; add 2 
cups milk, Yz teaspoon salt, 3 cups Henkel's pastry flour ; beat 
well ; add 2 heaping teaspoons Royal baking powder. Con- 
tinue beating until thoroughly blended, then carefully fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake on a hot griddle. 

■ Mrs. G. Britt. 

POTATO PANCAKES. 

One good sized fresh boiled potato, 1 cup Henkel's flour, 
2 teaspoons Royal baking powder, 34 teaspoon salt, 2 eo^gs, 1 
scant cup milk, Y^ teaspoon melted butter- Put potato on to 
boil, cut in thin slices. While cooking, beat thoroughly the 
eggs and salt, then flour sifted with baking powder. Mix well 
and add milk and melted butter ; lastly, add hot potato put 
through ricer. Beat well. Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

Try the KNOX GELATINE recipes found in this book. 



FRITTERS, WAFFLES AND PAIXAKES 45 

PINEAPPLE GLACE. 

Drain a can of sliced i)ineap])lc. Dip each slice in Hour, 
roll in ])rown sugar and fry to a rich brown, in butter. Garnish 
with parsley. Mrs. M. C. Yerkes. 

BAKED BANANAS WITH SAUCE. 

Bake bananas in skins for about la minutes, or until soft; 
then peel and while hot pour over them this sauce : 

To Yz cup sultana raisins, soaked in 1 cup of water, add 
Yi cup granulated sugar and cook in double boiler until raisins 
are well swelled ; then add 1 heaping teaspoon cornstarch dis- 
solved in a little cold water. Just before removing from stove 
add 2 tablespoons fruit juice. This is to be served with meat 
course. Mrs. Frank Kennedy. 

GLACE APPLES. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup water; boil 15 minutes, skimming 
when necessary. Quarter firm, red apples and cook few pieces 
at a time in syrup until transparent. 

Mrs. Claude F. Stofflett 



Try the KNOX GELATINE recipes found in this book. 



46 







Wm. 


A. 


Snyder 










Funeral Director 










Membe? 


of B 


■eiusttv Chii>-cli 






3550 


Trumbull 

At Grand Riv( 


Ave. 

;r 






Glendale 


1786 



Compliments 
of 

A Friend 



Walnut 814 



Jerome K. Stock 

Florist 



1744 Warren Avenue, West 

DETROIT, MICH. 



Tl^g^tablps 



Get them fresh as possible, 

First zi'asJi them and then pare; 

Season, as we here direct 
And cook zmth greatest care. 

— M. K. C. 

SWEET POTATO BALLS. 

Two cups cooked mashed sweet potato, 1 egg, J^ cup 
blanched almonds (chopped), salt, melted butter and a little 
cream. j\lix potato, almonds, butter and seasoning, shape in 
balls ; dip in Qgg, roll in cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat- 
Mrs. Arthur Montgomery. 

LUNCHEON DISH. 

One can kidney beans, 1 lb. cheese, 7 green peppers 
chopped, 5 or 6 chili peppers, salt. Fry green peppers in a lit- 
tle butter. Put beans in double boiler; add green peppers and 
seeds of chili peppers ; add cheese and let cook until it thick- 
ens. Serve on square saltine crackers. 

Mrs. Geo. E. McKean. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

One [)int dry beans — soak over night in cold water. In 
morning drain, put in fresh water and parboil until tender 
enough to split skins when blown on ; salt to taste, add pinch 
of soda, pinch of mystard, 1 onion size of English walnut, 
34 lb. fat pork. After beans are in pot, add 1 teacup brown 
sugar. Bake in quite hot oven first few hours ; then slowly 
and keep plenty of water in them. When adding water, have 
it cold. Mrs. Harrv M. Freed. 



DESSERTS can be made in a short time with KNOX GELATINE. 



48 VEGETABLES 

BOILED CHESTNUTS. 

One lb. large Spanish chestnuts, 1 heaping- tablespoon 
butter, ^ small onion, chopped fine, 2 tablespoons flour. Pour 
boiling water over chestnuts to remove skins. Put butter in 
a spider, add the chopped onion and fry brown ; add the flour 
and enough cold water to make a smooth paste, then add 
boiling water until gravy thickens ; add chestnuts and let 
boil 45 minutes, covered. Add hot water as the water cooks 
away. Season and serve hot. Airs. Cochran, Toledo, O. 

FRIED CABBAGE. 

Shred medium head of cabbage. Put in an iron kettle, 
alternate layers of cabbage and butter ; pepper and salt. Over 
all put }i cup milk and ^ cup vinegar. Cook 1 hour over 
very slow fire. Stir frequently. Mrs. J. R. Fisher. 

HOT SLAW. 

Shred Yz cabbage and cook with pint of boiling water 
until tender. Drain ; add salt, pepper and tablespoon of but- 
ter. Cover close and let simmer while making following 
dressing: Beat 1 egg, to which add scant Yz cup vinegar and 
2 large tablespoons sugar ; mix well. Pour over hot cabbage 
and serve. 

French Fried Sweet Potatoes are made the same as other 
potatoes, except you cut them in c|uarters or halves, accord- 
ing to the size of the potato. 

CARAMELIZED SWEET POTATOES. 

Arrange in baking dish freshly boiled sweet potatoes, 
sprinkle with salt and Yz teaspoonful cinnamon ; pour over 
sauce made of Y^ cup hot water and 1 cup brown sugar boiled 
ten minutes and add 1 teaspoonful butter. Bake in moderate 
oven until potatoes are browned. 

Airs. George E. McKean. 

RICE CROQUETTES WITH JELLY. 

V2 cup rice Y^ teaspoonful salt 

Y2 cup boiling water Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 cup scalded milk I teaspoonful butter 

Add boiling water to rice, cook until the water is ab- 
sorbed. Add milk, stir lightly, cook in double boiler, until 
rice is soft. Remove from fire, add egg yolks and butter. 
Cool, shape in balls, roll in crumbs, dip in egg, roll in crumbs 
again. Fry in deep fat, put cube of jelly in center of cro- 
quettes. Airs. G. S. Field. 



VEGETABLES 49 

PEA CROQUETTES. 

Make a thick, well seasoned white sauce, enough to bind 
together 1 can of small sifted peas. When cold (let stand 
over night if possible) shape into round balls and roll in hne 
cracker crumbs. Let stand 1 hour, then they can be shaped 
more perfectly. Roll in egg and bread crumbs (or shredded 
wheat rolled fine) and fry in smoking hot deep fat. 1 can 
peas make 7 or 8 croquettes. Mrs. C. A. Britt. 

O'BRIEN POTATOES. 

Three cups potatoes in cubes. Fry in deep fat, drain on 
brown paper, sprinkle with salt. Cook in frypan 1 slice onion, 
1% tablespoons butter 3 minutes. Remove onion, add to but- 
ter 1 pimento chopped. When heated add potatoes. 

Mrs. G. F. Bean. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Cut kernels from 4 large ears of corn, add 1 cup milk, 
2 eggs, well beaten, 1 tablespoon of sugar; season with salt 
and pepper ; bake ^4 hour. W^ill serve four. 

Mrs. T. H. S. Schooley. 

GREEN CORN OYSTERS. 

One pint grated corn, 3^ cup milk, ^ cup Henkel's flour, 
2 eggs, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 2 teaspoons Royal baking 
powder, salt. Mix flour and baking powder ; beat eggs ; add 
other ingredients, flour last. Fry same as pan cakes ; cakes 
size of oyster. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

ESCALLOPED EGG PLANT. 

Peel, boil and mash egg plant, to which add 1 large cup 
bread crumbs soaked in milk; butter size of an egg; 1 tea- 
spoon chopped parsley ; 1 teaspoon grarted onion ; pepper and 
salt to taste. Butter a dish well, put in mixture, cover with 
bread crumbs and bake 20 minutes. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Peel egg plant, cut in slices, sprinkle each slice with salt 
and let stand 1 hour. Drain. Dip in beaten egg, cracker or 
bread crumbs and fry golden brown. INFrs. E. I. Chase. 

Use KNOX GELATINE— the two quart package. 



50 VEGETABLES 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Cut a slice from the stem end of each pepper and care- 
fully remove all seeds and white lining. Parboil with a pinch 
of soda, rinse and fill with boiled rice mixed with bits of 
onion and tomato, salt and butter. Bake in a baking dish 
about Yz hour. 

They may also be stuffed with chopped cold meat mixed 
with a bread crumb dressing. Mrs. Harry Ellison. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Six green peppers, 2 cups cooked veal or chicken 
(chopped), 2 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour, 1^ cups 
cream or milk, ^ 3^ teaspoon salt, 1 cup bread crumbs. Cut 
the tops from peppers and keep them for lids. Remove seeds. 
Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, salt, onion juice and 
cream ; add the meat and fill peppers with mixture ; cover 
with buttered crumbs. Place peppers in baking dish, cover 
bottom of dish with boiling water and bake in a moderate 
oven Yi hour. Mrs. C. Westcott. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Place in a double boiler 1 cup milk. Rub together a 
rounding tablespoon of butter and same of flour; add these 
to boiling milk, stir until thick ; add Yi teaspoon salt, little 
pepper and ^ cup grated cheese. Pour mixture over 1 pint 
cold boiled potatoes cut in half inch cubes ; over top place 
Yz cup bread crumbs, into which 3 tablespoons melted but- 
ter has been thoroughly worked. Bake until brown. 

Mrs. John D. Wiley. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Peel potatoes and cut in half, lengthwise. Lay in shal- 
low pan ; sprinkle over with salt and pepper and put a gen- 
erous lump of butter on each piece. Bake until tender. 

Mrs. A. Montgomery. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Two cups hot riced potatoes, 2 tablespoons butter, yolk 
of 1 ^%^, 1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley, few drops onion 
juice, Ya teaspoon celery salt, salt and pepper to taste. Mix 
ingredients in order given and beat thoroughly. Shape, roll 
in fine bread or cracker crumbs, then in beaten ^%^, then 
in crumbs, and fry in smoking-hot, deep fat until golden 
brown. Olive J. Scott. 

KNOX GELATINE makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly. 



VEGETABLES 51 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Peel and cut in thin slices, or potatoes may be latticed. 
Butter a deep dish and put in layer of potatoes, season with 
pepper, salt and bits of l)u(ter; dredge lightly with flour. 
Fill dish with these layers; cover with hot milk (or cream) 
and bake until done. Add onion or green pepper if desred. 

Mrs. A. D. Cami)l)ell. 

PIGS IN POTATOES. 

Prepare potatoes for ])aking. With a corer remove the 
center without breaking through the opposite side. Fill space 
with strips of bacon and replace part of core. Place in a shal- 
low pan and bake until tender. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Charles E. W'isner. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Two large cups cold mashed potatoes, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, whipped together. Add 1 cup hot milk, salt. 
2 beaten eggs. Put in pan, butter on top, bake light brown 
and serve hot. Mrs. Curtis. 

POTATOES FRIED RAW. 

Peel and cut in thin slices and put in cold water ; drain 
and put into frying pan containing a mixture of butter and 
drippings. Cover and cook 10 minutes, only stirring to pre- 
vent burning; uncover and. cook ]<> minutes longer until 
lightly browned. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Cut a slice from the top of a baked potato ; scrape out 
the inside, mash and season highly with salt, pepper and 
butter. Beat until creamy ; refill the shell and put in the 
oven and brown lightly. Mrs. \'. Stock. 

RICE, WITH TOAST, FOR BREAKFAST. 

Boil a cup of rice in double boiler ; when thoroughly 
cooked add enough salt to season nicely and 3^ cup of milk 
or cream. When thoroughly mixed, place on hot platter, 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and pour over it browned 
butter. Serve with toast. Mrs. J. K. Stock. 

FRIED SUMMER SQUASH. 

Cut in rings, pare and remo\e seeds. Di]) rings in beaten 
egg and bread crumbs and fry 20 to 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Claude F. Stofflett. 



52 VEGETABLES 

RICE CUTLETS WITH CHEESE SAUCE. 

Put into double boiler 1 cup rice and ^ cup boiling- 
water ; cook till water is absorbed, then add 1^ cups milk, 
cook until milk is absorbed. Add 23^ tablespoons chopped 
pimento, salt and paprika to taste. Cool and form into cut- 
lets, brush over with beaten egg, toss in bread crumbs and 
fry. Melt 2 tablespoons butter, add 2 tablespoons Henkel's 
flour, ly^ cups milk, stir until boiling. Then add 1 cup grated 
cheese, j/^ teaspoon salt and A\hite ])epper. 

Mrs. G. F. Bean. 

CHILI RICE. 

Two cups rice, ^ lb. bacon, cut in small pieces, 1 can 
tomatoes, 1 green pepper, 1 tablespoon butter, 4 small onions, 
salt, and cayenne pepper to taste. Cook rice and drain in 
colander; pour cold water through to blanch. Fry minced 
onion with bacon. Cut pepper in shreds, taking out seeds. 
Mix together, pour tomatoes over and stir altogether ; cover 
top with rolled cracker crumbs. Bake 20 minutes so as to 
brown nicely. Bessie Dudley. 

FARINA BALLS. 

Cook -i tablespoons of farina in a double boiler with 1 
pint of milk until it is tender. Season with salt and pepper 
and 1 teaspoonful of onion juice. Add 1 teaspoonful of but- 
ter, 1 well beaten egg and 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 
Turn the mixture out on a buttered dish and let it stand 
until it is cold ; then form into small balls, dip them into 
egg, roll in crumbs and fry brown in smoking hot fat. Rub 
flour on hands when forming l:»alls, for the mixture is soft. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

RICE AND CABBAGE. 

One cup rice, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 1 small 
chopped onion, salt, pepper and paprika to taste, 1 cabbage, 1 
tablespoon vinegar. Boil rice until tender, drain and mix 
with melted butter, onion and seasonings. Take th'e cabbage, 
detach leaves, wash well and soak in salted water ; then 
pour over them boiling water and let stand until solft. Drain 
and fill each leaf with a heaping teaspoon of savory rice 
and roll up. Place these rolls in a saucepan, packing them 
so they will not move; pour the vinegar over the rolls, add 
enough water to cover and cook gently for 20 minutes. These 
may be served with an egg sauce, if desired. 

Mrs. A. W. Eldon. 



FOUR PINTS of jelly in each package of KNOX GELATINE. 



VEGETABLES 53 

SPINACH. 

Pick over carefully and wash in several waters. Put 
in a large kettle without water. Cook slowly until the juice 
is drawn, out, then boil until tender. Drain and chop fine, 
season with butter, salt and pepper. 

This is much ni.;re palatable and healthful than when 
cooked in water. Mrs. John Devlin. 

SPINACH. 

Two cups boiled spinach; 1 cu]) bread crumbs; 1 egg; 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. Mix together thoroughly 
and steam 1 hour. Mrs. V. Stock. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Pare and renn)ve seeds ; boil in salted w^ater until tender, 
drain, mash, season and stir over slow fire. Mix 1 table- 
spoon butter with jA teaspoon flour, and stir into squash. 

BUTTER OR STRING BEANS. 

Break beans into small p'eces, freeing from strings, and 
let stand in cold water for jA hour. Cook same in boiling 
salted water >^ hour; turn into colander and blanch with cold 
water. (This should be done an hour before wanted.) Pttt 
on fire in just enough boiling water to keep from burning, 
simmer 15 minutes. Season with salt, pepper and butter to 
taste. Mrs. G. W. Grant. 

FRIED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Slice tomatoes about >< inch thick. Dip in beaten egg, 
then in cracker or bre.-id crumbs and fry in plenty of hot but- 
ter and lard. Mrs. A. Montgomery. 

FRIED RIPE TOMATOES. 

Cut small, firm tomatoes in hahes ; dij) in flour; put cut 
side down in pan, in which is hot butter and drippings (pref- 
erably bacon) and cook until brown. 

Mrs. A. D. Camp1)cl]. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Cut tops from tomatoes and scoop out centers. Cho]) 
together inside of tomatoes, celery, 1 hard boiled egg, rolled 
cracker crumbs ; add salt, pepper, sugar, melted butter and 
a little salad dressing. Put into tomatoes and bake 'io min- 
utes in a moderate oven. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

KNOX GELATINE is the one dessert for all appetites. 



54 VEGETABLES 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH RICE. 

Cut off top and scoop out centers. Boil 2 tablespoons 
rice in 1 pint water 10 minutes, drain; melt butter, put in 1 
small onion minced fine, 1 green pepper, seeded and chop- 
ped ; fry slowly 5 minutes ; add pulp of tomatoes, seasoned 
with salt and pepper; add rice and mix all ingredients well; 
till tt)matoes with mixture, replace tops, brush with melted 
butter and bake 20 minutes or ^< hour. Mrs. Austin. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Pare and dice turnips, boil in unsalted water until tender. 
Mash, adding- salt, pepper and butter to taste. If cut small 
they will cook in less time and be less odorous. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Peel and cut lengthwise about j/2 inch thick ; parboil in 
slightly salted water. Drain and fry in beef drippings or 
butter or a mixture of both, until nicely browned. 

ITALIAN SPAGHETTI. 

One lb. veal off end of leg; ^ package spaghetti; 1 can 
mushrooms ; 1 green pepper ; 1 can tomatoes. Cut veal into 
small pieces and boil until tender, add green pepper cut small 
and boil 10 minutes. Boil spaghetti in salted water 20 min- 
utes, drain and blanch. Strain tomatoes and add to meat; 
also mushrooms. Salt to taste, boil up once and serve with 
grated cheese. Mrs. J. Kermath. 

ITALIAN SPAGHETTI. 

Break y2 package spaghetti into small pieces, cook 'in 
boiling salted water 30 minutes. Throw into cold water and 
let stand until cooled. Mix alternate layers of spaghetti, 
grated cheese and prepared tomato soup. Season Avell, cover 
top with bread crumbs and butter. Bake 1 hour. 

An onion and piece of bacon chopped and fried together 
improves the dish if onion is liked ; or a few mushrooms may 
be added if desired. Mrs. Wm. A. Snyder. 

NOODLES. 

Break 2 eggs into a dish, sprinkle with salt, add flour ; 
beat until easy to handle on bread board. Commence to knead, 
adding flour and keep kneading until smooth as chamois. Cut 
into quarters, roll as thin as paper and hang on edge of table 
to dry a little. When ready, cut and stack in strips \" long 
and 1" wide. Cut with a sharp knife in shavings, scjuares and 
oblonsfs. 



VEGETABLES 55 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 
Break y^ package of macaroni in ?/' pieces and put into 3 
pints salted water Boil twenty minutes or until tender ; drain 
in colander and pour cold water through to blanch and keep 
from sticking. Put in a shallow cooking dish, first layer of 
grated cheese and then macaroni, until dish is full ; cover with 
a sauce made with 1>4 cups hot milk; Yz tablespoon butter 
thickened with 1 tablespoon flour and >4 teaspoon salt. Mix 
% cup of fine bread or cracker crumbs with enough melted 
butter to sprinkle over top. Bake until crumbs are brown. 

Miss Huston. 

A FEW WAYS TO USE NOODLES. 

Those cut like shavings ur threads and those cut in 
squares used in soup stock, boiling about 10 minutes before 
serving. 

The oblong noodles, boil in salt water 20 minutes ; drain ; 
place on hot platter and sprinkle with cracker crumbs browned 
in butter. 

The oblong and square noodles, boiled in salt water; 
drained and add^d t(j chopped ham; 1 q^^^ and enough milk 
to cover, baked in oven until brown on top. Serve hot. 

Mrs. J. K. Stock. 

FRENCH FRIED ONIONS. 

Slice Spanish onions, dip in flour, then in milk, then in 
flour again, fry in deep fat. Mrs. George McKean. 

RICE RAMEKINS. 

Cook ^ cup rice in boiling salted water 20 minutes. Make 
white sauce oiV/2 cups milk with K' cup grated cheese. Put 
layer of sauce in ramekin and alternate with layers of nee and 
more white sauce, sprinkle between layers small pieces chop- 
ped hard boiled eggs and pimento. Sprinkle buttered crumbs 
on top. Bake Vz hour in pan of water. 

Mrs. T. H. S. Schooley. 

POTATO PYRAMID. 

Put 3 cups potatoes through a ricer, add 4 tablespoons 
chopped boiled onions, 1 beaten Qgg, I teaspoon chopped pars- 
ley, 1 tablespoon cream or milk. 4 tablespoons melted butter, 
salt and pepper to taste. Mix well, place in a pyramid on a 
buttered tin. Heat in oven but do not brown. Let it get 
quite hot. 

Give the growing children KNOX GELATINE. 



56 MEMORANDA 



VEGETABLES 57 

Egg Sauce. 

j\Ielt 4 tablespoons butter, stir in half a cupful of flour and 
2 cups milk, bring to boiling point, then season with salt and 
pepper and cook 5 minutes. Add 2 chopped, hard boiled eggs, 
reserving one yolk for garnishing. Pour sauce over potato, 
then grated yolk of egg, chopped parsley and paprika. 

Mrs. G. F. Bean. 

MARSHALL POTATOES. 

Cut 4 cu])fuls raw potatoes in cubes, cover with cold 
water ; let stand o minutes, drain, dry on towel ; put in frying 
pan, sprinkle 1>< teaspoons salt, % teaspoon paprika, then 
add 4 tablespoons butter. Stir until butter is melted, cover, 
cook slowly until soft, stir frequently that potatoes do not 
burn. Put in layer in buttered baking dish with }^ cup grated 
cheese between layers. Bake 1 hour. Mrs. G. F. Bean. 

HONGROISE POTATOES. 

Cut 3 cups potatoes in ^ in. cubes, parboil 3 minutes, 
drain. Add Ys cup butter, cook until potatoes are slightly 
browned. oNIelt 2 tablespoons butter, add few drops onion 
juice, 2 tablespoons flour, pour on gradually 1 cup hot milk. 
Season salt, paprika, add yolk one egg. Pour sauce over po- 
tato cubes with chopped parsley. Mrs. G. F. Bean. 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKING VEGEABLES. 

Let water boil before putting vegetables in ; continue to 
boil until done. 

Asparagus 20 minutes 

Beets 1 to 2 hours 

Cabbage 1 to 2 hours 

Cauliflower 20 minutes 

Green Corn 10 to 15 minutes 

Green Peas 20 minutes 

Onions 35 to 40 minutes 

Parsnips 20 to 30 minutes 

Lima Beans 20 to 30 minutes 

Spinach 20 minutes 

String Beans 45 to 60 minutes 

Turnips 40 minutes 

"Winter Squash 20 to 40 minutes 

KNOX GELATINE is clear and sparkling. 



58 



ROYAL 

Salad Dressing 

For that dainty Luncheon 

For Afternoon Tea 

For most any Meal 

ROYAL 

Mayonnaise 

T^SPECIALLY for Fruit Salads or when a 
mild dressing is preferred. 

"piTHER Royal Salad Dressing or Royal 
■^ Mayonnaise insures a delicious salad. 

The Horton-Gato Mfg. Co. 

Windsor, Canada Detroit, Mich. 



* Stops Food Decay in the Modern Way'* 




Refri d erates Without Ice 
Kelvinator Corporation, 20 Adams Ave., W. 



FOR QUALITY 

in Butter — Eggs — Tea — Coffee 
Phone Glendale 4767 

New Laid Eggs and Fancy Creamery Butter a specialty. 

Knorr & Cook 

4333 Grand River Ave. 



Calais 



J list a mixture of odds and ends you say? 

Ah! yes,— -but they must he mixed the right li'ay. 

Salads should he served crisp and cold; 

Read zvhat foUuivs, and do as you're told. 

— M. K. C. 



BANANA SALAD. 

Peel one banana for each person; leave whole or cut in 
halves lengthwise; roll in salad dressing, place on lettuce, 
sprinkle with chopped nut meats and garnish with cherries. 

Mrs. E. Chase. 

BEET SALAD. 

Dice 6 cooked beets ; cover with French Dressing, let 
stand one hour. Chop whites of 4 hard boiled eggs until fine ; 
press yolks through sieve or ricer. Arrange beets in mounds 
on lettuce. Garnish base of each mound with alternating rows 
of white and yolk of eggs. Parsley may be added. 

Mrs. E. L. Buell. 

CHEESE SALAD. 

Mix cream cheese with walnut meats. Moisten with 
cream ; shape into balls. . Chill. Shred head-lettuce ; arrange 
in nests; place five balls in each nest; sprinkle with finely 
chopped parsley. Pass French Dressing with this salad. 

Mrs. E. L. Buell. 

PINEAPPLE CHEESE SALAD. 

Place 1 slice Hawaiian pineapple on a lettuce leaf; cover 
top with grated cheese, and fill center with a Maraschino 
cherry ; add 1 teaspoon of salad dressing. 

Mrs. A. Montgomery. 
A KNOX GELATINE Dessert or Salad is attractive and appetizing. 



60 SALADS 

COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD. 

Put 1 heaping cupful cottage cheese into strainer to drain. 
Chop 12 stuffed oHves, ^4 cup wahiut meats, and j/^ green 
pepper ; add to cheese and mix with ^4 cup boiled salad dress- 
ing. 'Fill S or 3 large green peppers from which the seeds 
have been removed. Chdl. When ready to serve cut in thick 
slices and place on lettuce. Small peppers may be used; 1 to 
a person. Mrs. Thomas. 

CHERRY AND CHEESE SALAD. 

On each plate place a lettuce leaf, on which put 5 or G 
large dark red California cherries that have been pitted and 
filled with cream cheese ; with these, on side of plate place a 
ball of cheese and square of marshmallow rolled in nut meats 
and a opoonful of salad dressing. Serve with salted wafters. 

Mrs. McKean. 
CHERRY SALAD. 

Use large white cherries ; put 1 blanched almond in each. 
Serve on lettuce with Mayonnaise, to which whipped cream 
has been added. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mix 2 cups of chicken meat, cut in small pieces with 2 
cups celery, cut small. Moisten with French Dressing. Chill. 
Arrange in salad bowl ; cover with Mayonnaise, and garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Mrs. E. L. Buell. 

COMBINATION SALAD. 

Take 1 head'celery, y'^ lb. dates (stoned), ^1 lb. nut meats 
(not almond). Chop all in small pieces; mix and add pulp 
of 3 grapefruit ; arrange on crisp lettuce and garnish with 
Mayonnaise. Ivie Kalbfleisch Barker. 

STUFFED CELERY. 

Take Philadelphia cream cheese, or cottage cheese, add 
Yi cup chopped nut meats, and a little salad dressing. Stuff 
stalks of celery. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

HOT DUTCH SALAD. 

Use 8 cold boiled potatoes, 1 large onion, 3 slices bacon, 
Yz cup vinegar. Slice potato and onion thin, cut bacon in 
small pieces and fry crisp ; add vinegar and pour over potato 
and onion. Add pepper and salt. Cucumbers, sweet pepper 
and celery may be added. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and 
parsley. Mrs. Kalbfleisch. 



SALADS 61 

EASTER SALAD. 

Boil eggs ](> minutes; drop into cold water; shell; cut 
while still warm with silver knife, in strips from small end 
nearly to base; carefully lay back these lily petals on a lettuce 
leaf; remove yolks and rub them with spoonful of butter and 
Mriyonnaise Dressing; form into cone shaped balls and place 
on jjetals. Grate a little of one yolk over the balls. Serve 
with Mayonnaise Dressing. Mrs. E. L. Rucll. 

EGG SALAD. 

Boil hard y> doz. eggs; separate and chop each finely; 
chop separately 4 medium sized red beet pickles. Shred let- 
tuce and form nests. Mix ^g% and beet, add salt and pepper. 
Place in center of nest and on top a spoonful of Mayonnaise. 
Must be mixed just before serving. 

Mrs. John B'shop. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

• 

One cup each of diced pineapple, tart apple, bananas and 
celery. Moisten with salad dressing; place on lettuce leaf. 
Top off with whipped cream, candied cherries and nut meats. 

Mrs. AVm. A. Snyder. 

GRAPEFRUIT SALAD. 

Peel the fruit; separate the sections; remove inner skin 
and seeds. If grape gfruit is very large, cut sections into 
halves. Serve very cold on crisp lettuce leaves with French 
Dressing. Mrs. Arthur Montgomery. 

MARSHMALLOW SALAD. 

Cut ? cups marshallow in quarters ; break ^^ cup Eng- 
lish walnut meats in small pieces ; add to these 1 cup diced 
pineapple, 1 cup Maraschino cherries, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 
y^ teaspoon paprika, and 1 cup whipped cream. Very fine. 

Mrs. A. J. Tivv. 
ORANGE SALAD. 

Slice orange in rounds, on these put powdered sugar and 
chopped mint. Strawberries cut in rounds may also be added. 

Mrs. Chase. 
PEA SALAD. 

Chop finely 1 cucumber, 1 large sour pickle, 1 onion, 1 
head celery and 3 hard-boiled eggs ; add 1 can peas. Pour 
salad dressing over all. Edith Durst. 

Ask your grocer for KNOX GELATINE— take no other. 



62 SALADS 

PEAR SALAD. 

Fill halves of canned pears with balls of cottage cheese. 
Serve with Mayonnaise Dressing. Mrs. Chase. 

PEAR SALAD. 

Lay Yz canned Bartlett pear on lettuce leaf. Surround 
pear with white California cherries filled with blanched al- 
monds. Whipped cream on top. Garnish with bits of marsh- 
mallow and Maraschino cherries. 

Mrs. C. J. Chandler. 

PEPPER SALAD. 

Take Philadelphia cream cheese, add 2 pimentos cut in 
small pieces ; mix. Fill sweet green peppers with this mix- 
ture, packing firmly; cut in rounds and serve on lettuce with 
Mayonnaise Dressing. Mrs. E. Chase. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cut in small pieces 6 boiled potatoes, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 
3 small onions, 6 sweet pickles, 1 cup nut meats and 1 cup 
celery; salt and pepper to taste. Mix all with salad dressing. 

Mrs. C. F. Shirts, Chicago, 111. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cut in small pieces 5 boiled potatoes, 1 cucumber. 1 pi- 
mento and a few radishes. Use Royal Salad Dressing. 

PORCUPINE SALAD. 

Use either canned or fresh pears, cut in halves ; soak 
for 2 or 3 hours in French Dressing made of 5 tablespoons 
olive oil and 1 of vinegar. Cut some blanched almonds in 
strips while soft, and let dry. Place pears on lettuce, round- 
ing side up and stick almond strips into them for quills ; use 
cloves for eyes, parsley stems for tails and a piece of pimento 
or cherry for mouths. Put a spoonful of Mayonnaise on one 
side. Mrs. D. D. Williams. 

PRUNE SALAD. 

Boil large prunes in sweetened water to which has been 
added a little lemon juice and a pinch of salt. Remove stones 
and fill with cream cheese or nuts, or both combined. Serve 
four or five to each person on lettuce with salad dressing. 

Mrs. John Hall. 



SALADS 63 

RICE SALAD. 

With cooked rice mix canned peas, tiny pieces of cooked 
carrots, beets or pimento. Press in small cups. When ready 
to serve, turn out on lettuce leaves and add salad dressing. 

Mrs. C. J. Chandler. 

RING SALAD. 

Take 1 large onion, 1 large tomato, 1 green pepper, let- 
tuce ; slice onion, pull apart to make rings; skin tomato, cool 
and cut in rings; put peppers in hot fat to remove skins; 
cut in rings, remove centers. Cut lettuce in long strings ; 
pull through rings, three of each kind. Use cheese salad 
dressing. Mrs. McKean. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Cut cucumbers lengthw'ise, take out seeds and part of 
meat. Fill with shrimp, cut small. Serve on lettuce leaf with 
mayonnaise. Mrs. George E. Potter. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Take medium sized tomatoes, remove skins and seeds. 
Fill tomatoes with mixture of Philadelphia cream cheese, 
moisten with cream or salad dressing, to which has been added 
chopped nuts and a little pimento. Chill and serve on lettuce 
leaf with mayonnaise. Mrs. George E. Potter. 

TOMATO NUT SALAD. 

Pour ])()iling water over tomatoes of even size; peel, put 
on ice imtil cold. Cut off stem ends and scoop out centers. 
Chop English walnuts, not too fine ; mix with a very little 
Mayonnaise Dressing. Fill tomatoes; sprinkle with salt and 
paprika. Put salad dressing on top. Serve on lettuce. 

Mrs. H. C. Leech. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Take 1 cup chopped celery; soak in ice water. Dice 4 
medium sized apples; lay in ice water for a while. Drain and 
mix celery and apples, and add Yi cup English walnuts. Cover 
with Mayonnaise Dressing and serve on crisp lettuce. 

Daisy Buell. 

KNOX GELATINE improves soups and gravies. 



64 SALADS 

GRAPEFRUIT SALAD 

2 tablespons Knox gelatine ^ cup sugar 

3^2 cup boiling water ^ teaspoon salt 

Yi cup lemon juice 3 cups grapefruit pulp 

Mix lemon juice, salt, boiling water and sugar and add 
gelatine, which has been softened in a little cold water. Stir 
until dissolved. Cool and add grapefruit pulp (small pieces) 
and turn into individual molds. Serve with mayonnaise, 
which is half whipped cream. Mrs. C. A. Britt. 

LOBSTER OR SHRIMP SALAD. 

Cut lobster, allowing -/^ lobster to ^ celery. Mix with 
any salad dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Airs. E. I. Chase. 

ICE CREAM SALAD. 

1 envelope Knox gelatine 1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons cold water 1 cup cream, whipped 
1 tablespoon butter ~/z cup milk 

3 tablespoons sugar Yz cup vinegar 

yolks 3 eggs 3 tablespoons pineapple juice 

Yz teaspoon paprika 1 cup sliced fruit 

Soak gleatine in cold water five minutes, melt butter, add 
^Z^ yolks well beaten, sugar, salt and paprika. Remove from 
fire, add gradually milk, vinegar and pineapple juice. Cook 
in double boiler, stiring constantly until mixture thickens, add 
soaked gelatine, remove from fire, beat two minutes. Cool, 
stiring occasionally, when beginning to set add sliced fruit, 
using cherries, pineapples, oranges strained ; add cream whip- 
ped stifif. Mrs. T. H. S. Schooley. 

LONDON SALAD. 

Cream 1 cup mild cheese (grated) and 1 Philadelphia 
cream cheese with enough milk to soften. Add ^ pint cream, 
whipped stifif, % tablespoon plain Knox gelatine. Soak in % 
tablespoon cold water and dissolve in Yx tablespoon hot water. 
Beat into mixture and add 1^^ pimentos cut fine. Put into 
melon mold to harden. When cold remove from mold. Dis- 
solve package of raspberry jello and put into same mold. 
When nearly congealed put the cheese filling in center and let 
harden. Mrs. E. L Chase. 

Try the KNOX GELATINE recipes found in this book. 



.r ^ SALADS 65 

SALAD. 

Place lettuce leaves on plate and on that put strips \>f 
French endive, then place sections of grapefruit on this and 
on top of all and around edge put thin slices of kumquats not 
peeled. Pour French dressing over all. 

Mrs. Geo. E. McKean. 

PERFECTION SALAD. 

1 envelope Knox Sparkling 1 teaspoonful salt 

Gelatine 1 cup cabbage, finel" shred- 
^ cup cold water ded 

yi cup mild vinegar 2 cups celery, cut in small 

2 tablespoons lemon juice pieces 

2 cups boiling water 2 pimentoes, cut in small 

y. cup sugar pieces . , . 

Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Add vinegar, 
lemon juice, boiling water, sugar and salt.. Strain, and when 
mixture begins to stiffen, add remaining ingredients. Turn 
into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove to bed 
of lettuce or endive. Garnish with mayonnaise dressing, or 
cut in cubes, and serve in cases made of red or green peppers, 
or turn into molds lined with canned pimentoes. 

A delicious accompaniment to cold sliced chicken or veal. 

LUNCHEON SALAD. 

1 envelope Knox Sparkling >^ cup sugar 

Gelatine 3 tart apples. ; • > 
1 cup cold water 1 cup celery, cut in small 

1% cups boiling water pieces 

^ cup lemon juice >4 cup pecan nut meats 

Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and dissolve in 
boiling water. Add lemon juice and sugar. When mixture 
begins to stiffen, add apples, sliced in small pieces, chopped 
celery and broken nut meats. Turn into mold, first dipped, in 
cold water, and chill. Accompany with mayonnaise dressing. 
This mixture may be served in cases made from bright red 
apples. 



KNOX GELATINE makes Desserts, Salads, Candies, Puddings, 

Ices, Etc. 



66 



/CTNA-IZE" 

All Lines of Insurance 

npHE proof of the Pudding is in 
the eating. 

npHE test of Insurance is Service. 

T X 7E are equipped to serve you 
in the following lines of 
Insurance. 

Accident and Health Riot & Civil Commotion 

Automobile — All Forms Physicans Liability 

Baggage Marine — Inland & Ocean 

Burglary and Robbery Plate Glass 

Bonds All Kinds Postal 

Check Alteration Public Liability 

Compensation Combination Residence 

Elevator Registered Mail 

Engine Breakage Sprinkler Leakage 

Explosion Teams 

Fire — All Forms Tornado 

Hospital Liability Transportation 

Dentists Liability Water Damage 

ACCIDENT AND LIABILITY DEPARTMENT 

>ETNA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

THE 

>ETNA CASUALTY AND SURETY COMPANY 
AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY 

OF HARTFORD. CONNECTICUT 



DISTRICT 
MANAGER 



T. J. BOSQUETT, 

Phone Main 2500 Majestic Building 

ASSOCIATES 

I. A. BOSQUETT ROGER W. GATES JOSEPH RILL 

EDWARD R. CHAPMAN STEPHEN E. HARTNELL GUY A. RONDOT 

CHAS. W. GARRATT JOS. E. MEASEL C. GILBERT WALDO 

J. BELL MORAN 



Buiuh Irraamga 



Success in making a Mayonnaise Dressing generally de- 
pends upon all the ingredients being of the same temperature. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING FOR BLUE MONDAY 

SALAD. 

"Cut up some lively capers, add to them a sauce made of 
the milk of human kindness, thicken with peace oil, and spiced 
to taste. When using this Mayonnaise Dressing, always serve 
some fresh peals of laughter with the salad. If you find it 
impossible to obtain the fresh peals, use some that you have 
simdried for emergencies." Carol M. Holt. 

ALMOND DRESSING FOR FRUIT. 

34 lb- almonds (ground fine) l^^ cups boiling water 
1/2 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

3 tablespoons cream Juice of 3^ orange 

Pour water on almonds; cook 10 minutes; remove. Add 
sugar, butter and orange juice. Cook 3 minutes, stirring all 
the time ; remove and add cream. When cold add half cup 
whipped cream. Mrs. G. E. McKean. 

ROQUEFORT CHEESE DRESSING. 

7^ cup olive oil 34 lb. Roquefort cheese 

% teaspoon salt 34 teaspoon paprika 

y3 cup vinegar 3^ teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce 

Blend together the cheese and oil ; add seasonings and 
vinegar. Stir until creamy. For romaine, endive, or lettuce 
salad. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 



KNOX GELATINE comes in two packages— PLAIN and ACIDU- 
LATED (Lemon Flavor). 



68 SALAD DRESSINGS 

CHEESE DRESSING FOR GREEN VEGETABLES. 

Yolks of 3 egg's Yi cup grated cheese 

1 teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon Henkel's flour 
Yz cup vinegar 

Beat eggs; add dry ingredients, then milk. Cook until 
thick. Remove from tire ; add vinegar (boiling) slowly, then 
add cheese. L. E. M. 

QUICK MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Yolk of 1 Q^^ 2 tablespoons vinegar or 

2 tablespoons water lemon jiuce 

1 cup olive oil Y teaspoon paprika 

Yi teaspoon salt Ys teaspoon mustard 

Beat egg yolk; add paprika, mustard and salt. Slowly 
add \inegar or lemon juice. Beat and add oil slowly. Then 
add water boiling hot. Airs. C. Westcott. 

DELICIOUS MAYONNAISE. 

Yolks of -i eggs 5 tablespoons vinegar 

1 white of egg Whipping cream 

Heat vinegar ; pour over beaten eggs. Put in double 
boiler. Cook until thick. Thin with whipped cream and 
season with paprika. Mrs., Wurster. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

3 tablespoons olive oil lemon juice 
1 tablespoon vinegar or Y teaspoon salt 

Y teaspoon paprika 

Add together the oil, salt and paprika ; then add the 
vinegar or lemon juice slowly, beating all the time with a 
silver fork. 

Very good with grape fruit salad. 

Mrs. A. Montgomery. 
A kernel of garlic left for a minute in French Dressing 
improves the flavor. ■ Mrs. Freed. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

1 roimding tablespoon 1 cup milk 

Henkel's flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 rounding tablespoon sugar 1 teaspoon butter ' 
1 level teaspoon mustard 1 egg 
Yz cup vinegar 

]\Iix all (excepting vinegar) together and cook until 
thick. Remove from Are and add the cold vinegar. 

Mrs. Xewhall. 



SALAD DRESSINGS 69 

SALAD DRESSING. 

^ ^§^§^ Ya teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup butter 1 teaspoon mustard 

3 tablespoons sugar 3^ cup vinegar 

Beat esrgs thoroughly ; add the other ingredients and cook 
until it creams. A. P. Durst. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

4 eggs 1 cup vinegar 

3 tablespoons brown sugar 1 tablespoon salt 

1 tablespoon mustard 2 tablespoons corn starch 

1 cup hot water Butter size of an ^^^ 
y^ teaspoonful cayenne 1 teaspoon tumeric 

Mix dry ingredients together; add the well beaten eggs. 
Bring vinegar and water to a boil ; add mixture and cook 
until thick, stirring well. Remove from fire and stir in bvitter. 
Makes about 1 quart. Mrs. A. C. Stellwagen. 

THOUSAND ISLAND SALAD DRESSING. 

2 eggs V2 teaspoon mustard 

1 cup olive oil ^ teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons lemon juice Dash of paprika 

Add lemon juice to beaten yolks, then mustard, salt and 
paprika ; mix well. Add oil very slowly, beating constantly. 
Lastly add beaten whites. To this foundation add 1 hard- 
boiled e^g, cut fine, some green pepper and pimento to taste, 
and a teaspoon catsup. 

Nice for salads or for hot salmon loaf ; using a little cu- 
cumber and onion instead of pimento. Mrs. R. Chope. 

THOUSAND ISLAND SALAD DRESSING. 

4 tablespoons Mayonnaise cream 

4 tablespoons whipped juice of half a lemon 

Add hard boiled egg and ]/> pimento chopped fine. 

Mrs. A. Montgomery. 

TARTARE SAUSE. 

1 cup ^Mayonnaise Dressing j/S tablespoon parsley 

1 tablespoon chopped pickle 4 olives 
Yz tablespoon capers 

Chop olives, capers and parsley; mix all with dressing 
and beat well. Mrs. C. Westcott. 

Simply add water and sugar to the KNOX ACIDULATED package. 



70 SALAD DRESSINGS 

QUICK MAYONNAISE. 

Beat 1 egg with ^ teaspoon mustard, ^ teaspoon salt, 
34 teaspoon paprika, vinegar enough to mix. Add one cup 
of olive oil (^ at a time) beat each ^ in well before adding 
more. If preferred thicker add more oil. Add three teaspoon- 
fuls chilli sauce just before serving. Mrs. S. Simmons. 

MAYONNAISE. 

6 teaspoons sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons Henkel's flour 2 eggs (well beaten) 

1 teaspoon mustard (scant) 1 cup vinegar, diluted 

Mix dry ingredients, add vinegar and cook over fire, 
stirring constantly. Pour slowly into eggs. Now cook in 
double boiler until thick, stirring frequently. Remove from 
fire and add 1 tablespoon butter and 2 teaspoons olive oil, stir 
until thoroughly mixed. Thin to proper consistency with 
cream before serving. 

FOR THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING. 

Chop 1 green pepper, 1 pimento, 1 hard boiled egg. Add 
2 tablespoon catsup ; whipped cream if desired. 

Mrs. Claude F. Stofiflett. 

SALAD CREAM. 

4 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon dry mustard 

1 tablespoon Henkel's flour 3^ cup vinegar 
1 tablespoon sugar 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

Dash of cayenne pepper 

Let butter get hot, add flour, stirring until smooth. Add 
milk, stir and let come to a boil in double boiler. Have 
ready well beaten eggs, sugar, salt, mustard and pepper. Add 
vinegar and beat again. Pour this mixture slowly into the 
boiling milk, continue stirring until it is well thickened. Re- 
move from fire and beat for 5 minutes. Thin with cream if 
too thick for serving. Mrs. Louise Gregory. 

KNOX GELATINE comes in two packages— PLAIN and ACIDU- 
LATED (Lemon Flavor). 



l?0Sprla 



¥ 
I do not hesitate to assert 
That I wish dinner began zvith dessert. 
Some folks, of course, will say, oh fie! 
But I zvould like to begin with pie. 

— M. K. C. 

¥ 

PASTRY. 

PLAIN PASTRY. 

134 cups Henkcl's pastry powder (if used) 

flour 34 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon Royal baking j/2 cup shortening (scant) 
Ice water 

This amount is enough to cover 2 ordinary pie plates. 

Mrs. C. E. Westcott. 

AMBER PIE. (Very rich and good). 

iy2 cups sugar j/< teaspoon cloves 

iy2 cups sour milk 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup raisins 1 tablespoon flour 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 2 tablespoons vinegar 
4 eggs 

Cook above ingredients (except whites of eggs which are 
used for meringue) and bake same as lemon pie. This makes 
1 large or 2 small ones. Mrs. Palmer Richards. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE. 
Part 1. 

Butter, size of walnut 1 cup dark brown sugar 

-1 tablespoons milk 

Boil above ingredients 5 minutes. 

Part 2. 

2 eggs 2 tablcsp( ons flour 
1 cup milk 

Mix flour smooth with cold water. Add yolks of eggs 
and milk. Pour in part 1 and cook in double boiler until 
thickened. When cooked pour into pic crust. Cover with 
meringue of whites of eggs and 2 tablespoons sugar and 
brown slightly in quick oven. Mrs. W. E. Cowen. 



DESSERTS can be made in a short time with KNOX GELATINE. 



72 



^ictorp Cafe 

Chinese and American Restaurant 

2940 WOODW^ARD AVENUE 
Phone Cherry 8101 




Seeiy's 

VANILLA and LEMON 

Sold by all Grocers 
Standard for 60 years 



Packing and Shipping Phone Glendale 
by Experts 1058-1059 




TITCOMBE BROS. 




MOVING VANS 


Lysande 


sr and Greenwood Detro 


it, Mich. 



Call Glendale 7487— 

"For Quick Service and Reliable Work" 

Plumbing, Steam and 
Hot Water Heating 

WILLIAM HUGHES 

939 MERRICK AVE. DETROIT, MICH. 



DESSERTS 73 



ORANGE PIE. 

1 cup orange juice 2 taI)lc.s])(K)ns Henkel's flour 
:3 egg yolks J cuj) sugar 

Grated rind one orange 

Beat yolks until creamy, add sugar, flour, orange juice 
and grated rind. Mix well. Line medium pie plate with 
pastry. Pour in orange filling and bake in moderate oven 
until consistency of custard and pastry is well browned. Beat 
whites of eggs with 7 tablespoons of sugar until very stiff. 
Spread on top of pie and return to oven untnl slightly 
browned. Mrs. D. W. Shain. 

NEVER FAIL PUMPKIN PIE. 

2 cups pumpkin I egg 

1 cup milk y2 teaspoon g'nger 

2 tablespoons molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
7 heaping teaspoons sugar A little nutmeg 

1 tablespoon Henkel's flour A pinch salt 

Bake in slow oven. Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

SHORT CAKE. 

2 cups Henkel's flour l^ teaspoon salt 

}i cup butter 2 teaspoons sugar 

y2 cup milk 3 level teaspoons Royal 

1 egg beaten into the milk bakir"- pc wder 

Mrs. S. Simmons. 

EGG PIE CRUST. 

2 level teaspoons Royal }i cupful butter 

baking powder 14 cupful lard 

3 level cupfuls Henkel's 3 level tablespoons sugar 

flour 1 Qgg 

1 level teaspoon salt J/^ cupful water 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt. Cut in shortening 
with a knife, add sugar, egg well beaten and water. Handle 
as little as possible. Sufficient for two large covered pies. 

Mrs. Claude F. StofYlett. 



KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE saves the cost, time and bother 
of squeezing lemons. 



74 DESSERTS 

CRUST FOR MEAT PIE. 

^ egg U cup milk 

1 cup flour- 2 level teaspoons Royal 

^2 teaspoon salt baking powder. 

Mrs. S. Simmons. 

BOSTON CREAM PIE. 

1 egg (in flour) 

1 cup Henkel's Velvet flour >^ cup milk 
1 teaspoon baking powder ^4 cup sugar 
Bake in quick oven — when cool split. 

Cream Filling. 
1, cup milk (boiling) Butter size of walnut 

1 egg y2 cup sugar 

^ cup flour 

Mix flour and sugar, add well beaten egg, stir into boil- 
ing milk and add butter. Put filling between cake. 

Mrs. Fred G. Emmons. 

SOUR CREAM PIE. 

1 cup sour cream flour 

1 cup chopped raisins Salt 

1 cup sugar Cinnamon 

1 egg Cloves 

1 heaping teaspoon Henkel's Nutmeg 

Make upper and lower crust. Bake slowly. Top crust 
will puff up while baking, when it goes down the filling is 
cooked. Mrs. C. J. Chandler. 

CHERRY PIE. 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup cherries (pitted) (melted) 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons Henkel's flour 

2 tablespoons sugar 3 tablespoons water 

Beat yolks of 2 eggs, add sugar, butter, flour, and water. 
Mix and fill lower crust for open pie. Beat the whites with 
2 tablespoons sugar. Spread on top and return to oven to 
brown slightly. Florence Durst. 

A KNOX GELATINE Dessert or Salad is attractive and appetizing. 



DESSERTS 75 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

y^ cup grated chocolate 2 eggs 

1 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons cornstarch 
Salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix cornstarch in tablespoon cold water, and cook in 
boiling water until thick. Add sugar and chocolate and cook 
3 minutes, stirring constantly. Then add butter and yolks 
of eggs, well beaten, and salt. Cook 1 minute, add vanilla 
and pour into the baked crust. Cover with whites of eggs 
beaten stiff, and sweetened with 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Mrs. William Ryan. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

2^ cups milk Salt 

2 squares Baker's chocolate 3 heaping tablespoons corn- 
94 cup sugar starch 

Alake in double boiler. Pour in cooked crust. Put whip- 
ped cream on top. Mrs. E. L Chase. 

CUSTARD PIE 

2 eggs 14 cup sugar 

1 teaspoon cornstarch Salt 

1 pint milk Nutmeg 

Beat eggs, sugar, cornstarch and salt together till light 
and foamy. Boil milk, take from fire and stir into the above 
mixture. Pour into crust, grate nutmeg over top and bake 
till custard is set. Mrs. Cowan. 

LEMON PIE. 

1 lemon 2/3 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons flour Little butter 

2 eggs 1 cup boiling water 

Mix sugar, flour and butter together. Pour on boiling 
%vater, add the yolks of the eggs and the lemon, and boil about 
2 minutes. Bake the crust, add the filling and beat the whites, 
and put on top. Place in a slow oven and brown. 

Mrs. J. E. Warren. 

PIEPLANT PIE. 

1 cup chopped pieplant Butter size of walnut 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs, less 2 whites 

2 tablespoons flour 

Bake in 1 crust. Use the 2 whites for the top. 

Mrs. C. E. Mutschel. 



76 DESSERTS 

LEMON CREAM PIE. 

4 eggs iy2 cups boiling water 

1 cup sugar Grated rind and juice of 2 

2 heaping tablespoons Hen- lemons 

kel's flour 

Beat yolks and whites of eggs separately. To the yolks 
add sugar, flour, lemon juice and rind, and lastly boiling 
water. Cook in double boiler and when it begins to thicken 
add 3^ beaten whites. Stir thoroughly until thick enough. 
Use rest of the whites for meringue on top. After custard 
is cool fill a baked pie shell. Put meringue on top and bake 
until light brown. Mrs. G. E. Goddard. 

LEMON PIE. 

5 eggs 1 tablespoon cornstarch 
1 cup sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

1 cup water 

Heat the water, sugar and juice to boiling. Then thicken 
with yolks and flour and just enough water to mix smooth. 
Beat white s stifif and add 2 tablespoons sugar. Spread on top 
and brown slightly. Mrs. Durbin Newton. 

LEMON PIE. 

j-i cup sugar 1 lemon 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 1^4 cups hot water 

3 eggs 

Cook sugar, corntsarch, yolks of 3 eggs, white of 1, in 
water until thick; then add juice and grated rind of lemon. 
Pour into baked crust. Spread mearinge on top and brown 
slightly. Mrs. W. B. Hazelton. 

SHORT CAKE. 

2 cups Henkel's flour 5<2 teaspoon salt 

4 teaspoons Royal baking 1 egg 

powder 3^ cup butter 

Yz cup milk 

Mix flour, baking powder and butter together. Add egg, 
salt and milk. Put 3^ in a cake tin. spread with butter, and 
roll the other half and put on top of this. Bake in a hot oven 
about 30 minutes. Mrs. V. Stock. 

The KNOX ACIDULATED package contains flavoring and coloring. 



DESSERTS 77 

MINCE MEAT. 

2 lbs. cooked beef ^ lb. chopped suet 
2 lbs. sugar 1 cup molasses 

2 lbs. raisins ^ lb. lemon peel 

2 lbs. currants 5^ lb. orange peel 

1 tablespoon salt ^ tablespoon cloves 

1 tablespoon mace ^ tablespoon allspice 

1 tablespoon cinamon Apples 

Chop and measure twice as much apples as meat. Use 
stock and cider to mix quite moist. Cook down thoroughly, 

Mrs. E. I., Chase. 

MINCE MEAT. 

2 lbs. meat Sugar 

1 lb. suet 2 teaspoons mace 
5 lbs. apples 2 teaspoons cloves 

2 lbs. raisins 1 teaspoon allspice 
^ lbs. citron 1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons cinnamon J^ pint fruit juice 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 1 pint cider, or more if de- 

sired 

Mrs. C. P. Warren. 

RAISIN PIE FILLING. 

1 cup Sun Alaid raisins 1 tablespoon sugar 

1^ cups water 1 level teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon corn starch 

Bring raisins and water slowly to a boil, add sugar, salt 
and cornstarch, mixed with a little cold water, boil ;3 minutes. 

Mrs. F. E. Lappan. 

RAISIN PIE FILLING. 

Cover tS lb. raisins with cold water. Boil until tender, 
add juice of 1 lemon. 3 tablespoons sugar. 1 beaten egg. 
Thicken with 1 rounding tablespoon Henkel's flour mixed in 
54 cup water. Cook five minutes. 

Mrs. Josephine Blenman. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

Three-quarters cup grated pineapple. ^ cup sugar, heat 
together until sugar is melted. Put in double boiler two beaten 
eggs. lJ/2 cups milk. When hot add pineapple, sugar and 1 
tablespoon cornstarch wet in milk, pinch salt. Pour in pre- 
viously baked crust, whipped cream on top. 

Mrs. W. H, McClenahen. 



78 DESSERTS 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

One small can shredded pineapple in double boiler, Yz cup 
sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon corn starch, yolks of 
2 eggs. Cook all m boiler until smooth, then add Yi tablespoon 
salt and a little lemon juice. Use whites of eggs for meringue, 
brown in oven. Mrs. Harry Freed. 

BREAD PUDDING— LEMON SAUCE. 

1 pint milk salt 

2 eggs 1 cup sugar 
Yi lb. nut meats (or more). 

Use required amount of bread to soak up 1 pint of milk. 

Sauce. 

1 cup sugar Yz to Y^ cups water 

Butter size of walnut Juice of 1 lemon 

Mrs. C. E. Mutschell. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

1 cup sugar 1 egg 

Y2. cup milk 2 teaspoons Royal baking 
1^ cups Henkel's flour powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla Butter size of an t^^ 



Mix as for cake. 



Sauce. 



1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons Henkel's flour 

Y2. cup butter (scant) 1^ cups boiling water 

Yolk of 1 ^^^ 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt butter and stigar in double boiler. Stir in flour and 
add boiling water. Beat in yolk of e.^^ and stir constantly 
for 10 minutes; add vanilla. 

Mrs. George E. Goddard. 

CHERRY PUFFS. 

1 cup Henkel's flour 1 tablespoon butter 

5 teaspoons Royal baking Y2 cup sweet milk 

powder 1 cup drained cherries 

All measures level. Steam in buttered cups 40 minutes. 

Sauce. 

Ya cup butter 2 tablespoons swe* t cream 

Yi cup powdered sugar Vanilla 

Beat very light. Mrs. C. C. Curtis. 

KNOX GELATINE makes Desserts, Salads, Candies, Puddings, 

Ices, Etc. 









^ 




' 










n 


gf^^^S^TM*^^^ 











79 



Bread is Your Best Food 

T^on't foster the idea that all baker's 
-■-^bread is alike. Of course all 
baker's bread is pure and in different 
degrees nourishing but the flavor is 
the thing that makes 

NUcTWILK and HOcTWAID 

bread individual. It has the beauti- 
ful bloom of the golden grain— Toasts 
well while fresh, Try it! 

The important things in Bread are 
flavor and nourishment so Ask for 
Ho maid or Numilk Bread, 

Ask Your Grocer 



80 DESSERTS 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

1 quart scalded milk 1 tablespoon ginger 

Yi cup corn meal Yz cup molasses 

1 teaspoon salt ^ cup chopped suet 

Pour milk slowly on meal, stirring constantly ; add mo- 
lasses, salt and ginger. Cook in double boiler 20 minutes. 
When cool add suet beaten well into ingredients. Pour into 
buttered pudding dish and bake 2 hours in slow oven. Serve 
with cream. Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

KISS PUDDING. 

3 eggs 1 pint milk 

1 cup sugar 1^ tablespoons cornstarch 

Have milk boiling; add Yz cup sugar, yolks of eggs, well 

beaten, and cornstarch. Stir until thick, pour into pudding 

dish. 

Use whites of eggs and Yz cup sugar for meringue, brown 

slightly in quick oven. Very nice eaten with or without 

cream. Clara Wright. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

Juice of 1 lemon Whites of 3 eggs 

25^ cups boiling water 

Stir sugar, lemon juice and cornstarch together. Add 
water and cook until clear. When cool add the beaten whites 
of eggs. Pour into moulds and serve with custard sauce. 

Sauce. 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs and 1 cup of sugar ; add I pint 
of warm milk and cook until it begins to thicken, stirring 
constantly. Mrs. W. Mitchell. 

MACAROON PUDDING. 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon Royal baking 
1 cup sugar powder 

1 cup cracker crumbs Y^ cup grated chocolate 

Flavoring 1/2 cup milk 

Separate eggs, add yolks to sugar, cracker crumbs, baking 
powder, chocolate milk and flavoring. Add the stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs last Bake in a dish set in pan of water. 

KNOX GELATINE improves soups and gravies. 



DESSERTS 81 

Sauce. 

2 squares grated chocolate 1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup sugar 1>^ cups boiling water 

1 tablespoon Henkel's flour Pinch of salt 

Mix sugar and flour, add boiling water and cook. When 
it begins to boil, add butter and chocolate. Cook until creamy. 

Mrs. Geo. McKean. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

1 quart milk Whites of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons cornstarch j^ teaspoon butter. 
}i cup sugar 3^ cup milk 

Pinch of salt 4 tablespoons melted choco- 

late 

Boil 1 quart of milk, add cornstarch dissolved in jE^ cup 
of cold milk, salt, sugar and butter. Stir rapidly and cook 
until thick (2 minutes). Remove from fire and divide into 2 
parts. Into 1 part stir lightly, well beaten whites of eggs, 
and into the other half stir the chocolate. Put in a mold, 
spoonful of white and chocolate alternately and serve cold 
with whipped cream. Flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. R. L. Stoddard. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

4 oranges 3 eggs 

1^ cups sugar 1 pint milk 

^ cup powdered sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

2 tablespoons cornstarch Salt 

Pour over sliced oranges 1 cup of sugar and juice of 
lemon. Beat yolks of eggs with j4 cup sugar. Add corn- 
starch and salt and pour over this, milk (boiling). Let 
thicken, stir and cool. Then mix thoroughly with oranges. 
Beat the whites with powdered sugar. Pour over top and 
brown slightly. Serve cold. Mrs. A. H. Hazleton. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 quart m'lk 

1 cup sugar Yolks of 4 eggs, beaten 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon Butter size of an egg 

Currant jelly 

Cream the butter and sugar ; add the beaten yolks, then 
bread crumbs, milk and rind of lemon. Bake this like a cus- 
tard, then spread jelly over top and add the meringue made of 
the beaten whites and 2 tablespoons sugar and the lemon 
juice. Brown in oven. Mrs. E. Moore. 



82 DESSERTS 

PEACH PUDDING. 

2 cups Henkel's sifted flour 2 tablespoons sugar 
1 teaspoon Royal baking 2 tablespoons butter 
powder (melted) 

^ teaspoon salt 1 egg 

Peaches ^ cup sweet milk 

Put flour, baking powder, salt and sugar together and 
sift ; rub in the melted butter ; beat egg in cup and then fill 
up with milk and stir into the flour mixture. Pour into a 
shallow pan. Pare the peaches, halve and lay on batter, fill- 
ing halves with sugar. Bake. If canned fruit is used, drain 
it well. 

Sauce. 
1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons butter. Cream together, 

Mrs. Chas. Ludlow. 
Mrs. John Bishop. 

RICE PUDDING. 

1 cup rice 3 cups water 

yi pint whipping cream Maple sugar 

Cook rice in a double boiler with water. When done 
spread out on large platter to cool. When cool add the cream 
whipped and grate maple sugar over the top. 

Mrs. G. E. McKean. 

RICE PUDDING. 

^2 cup rice ^ cup sugar 

1 quart rich milk ^ cup raisins 

1 teaspoon butter 

Bake slowly 2 hours. When about half done add the 
raisins and butter. Stir occasionally. 

Mrs. Fred Coulson. 

NEW ENGLAND RICE PUDDING. 

y2 cup rice ^ cup sugar 

2 quarts milk >4 cup raisins 
j4 teaspoon salt Nutmeg 

Sprinkle nutmeg on top and bake 2 hours. 

Mrs. Riggs. 

Use KNOX GELATINE if you would be sure of results. 



DESSERTS 83 

SAGO PUDDING. 

5/2 cup sago 1 pint milk 

Yz cup sugar Pinch salt 

2 eggs Butter and raisins 

Cook milk and sago in double boiler until thick ; add eggs, 
small lump butter and raisins and bake. 

Hard Sauce. 

1 cup brown sugar 1 tablespoon boiling water 

1 tablespoon flour Butter 

Cream sugar, flour and butter and add boiling water. 

Mrs. J. D. Wiley. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Yi cup Minute Tapioca 2 cups brown sugar 

2 cups cold water Pinch of salt 

Soak tapioca in the water ^ hour; then add sugar and 
salt. Bake or boil slowly until it becomes thick. Serve warm 
with cream. Mrs. Geo. E. McKean. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

1 pint boiling water Whites of 3 eggs 

3 tablespoons cornstarch Juice of 1 lemon 

(level) 

To boiling water add cornstarch and cook until clear. 
Have the whites of eggs beaten stiff and sweetened a little; 
stir into cornstarch; then add a pinch of salt and lemon juice. 

Sauce, 

Yolks of 3 eggs well beaten 1 pint milk 
Scant Yz cup sugar 

Boil until it thickens. When cool flavor to taste. 

Mrs. C. Pelton. 

MOLASSES PUDDING. 

1 t^^ 8 cups Hcnkel's flour 

1 cup mollases 1 teaspoon S(xla 

Yi cup cold water Steam 1 hour 

Sauce. 

Two eggs beaten, add 1>4 cups sugar and beat well, ^ 
cup melted butter. 

Mrs. M. L. Fanchcr. 



84 DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE TRIFLE. 

3 sq. Baker's Bitter Choco- Ij^ tablespoons Knox gela- 

late tine 

Yl cup powdered sugar 54 cup cold water 

34 cup boiling water ^ cup scalded milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla 3 cups cream, whipped 

Melt chocolate, add sugar and milk ; cook until smooth. 
Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, add 
chocolate mixture. Chill partially; add vanilla and whipped 
cream. Mold, chill and serve. Garnish with whipped cream 
and cherries. Mrs. Webster Kay. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Three tablespoons tapioca, cook in 1^^ cups hot water, 
sweeten to taste, salt, 13^ cups sliced peeaches, bake 20 min- 
utes. Cover with marshmallows, put back in oven, watch 
closely. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

KISS PUDDING. 

1 pint whipping cream Yi. lb. marshmallows 

1 can pineapple 8 meringue kisses 

Whip cream stiff and add 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 
and Yi. teaspoon vanilla. Cut pineapple in small pieces. Cut 
marshmallows and break kisses into small pieces, then mix 
altogether and let stand on ice 3 hours. When serving put 
cherry on top. Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Yi, box gelatine 1 cup sugar 

Ya cup cold water Ya cup lemon juice 

1 cup boiling water Whites of 3 eggs 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water 15 minutes, or until 
soft. Then dissolve it in the boiling water, add sugar and 
lemon juice. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Strain into 
a large bowl and set in ice water to cool ; stir occasionally. 
Beat the wh'tes of the eggs to a stiff froth and when gelatine 
begins to thicken add the beaten whites and beat all together 
until very light. When nearly stiff enough to drop, pour 
into a mold, or beat until stiff enough to hold its shape and 
pile lightly in a tall glass dish. Serve sauce either from pitcher 
or pour over the mold. 

KNOX GELATINE comes in two packages— PLAIN and ACIDU- 
LATED (Lemon Flavor). 



DESSERTS 85 

Sauce. 
Yolks of 3 eggs 3 tablespoons sugar 

1 pint hot milk i^ teaspoon vanilla 
Pinch of salt 

Bessie Holt. 
SNOW PUDDING. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch ^ cup sugar 

4 tablespoons water Whites of 2 eggs 

1 cup boiling water Juice and rind of ^^ lemon 

Moisten cornstarch with water. Add boiling water and 
sugar and stir while it boils. Pour slowly on the well beaten 
whites and flavor with lemon. Pour into mold and set aside 
to cool. 

Custard. 
1 cup milk Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon cornstarch ^ cup sugar 

Flavor with lemon juice and serve very cold. This will 
serve 4 people. Mrs. Harry L. Scott. 

BROWN BETTY. 

Peel apples, core and slice. Butter a baking dish ; put 
layer of fine bread crumbs in bottom ; fill dish with alternate 
layers of apples and crumbs. Sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon 
and butter. Put crumbs on top, butter and bake. Serve with 
hard sauce or cream. Lemon juice may be added. 

Mrs. G. C. Curtis. 

CHOCOLATE PLUM PUDDING. 

1 envelope Knox Sparkling sired 

Gelatine ^4 cup sliced citron or nuts, 

}i cup cold water as preferred 

1 cup sugar J^ cup currants 

^ teaspoon vanilla 1^ squares chocolate 

1 cup seeded raisins 1 pint milk 

^2 cup dates or figs, if de- Pinch salt 

Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Put milk in 
double boiler, add melted chocolate, and when scalding point 
is reached add sugar, salt and soaked gelatine. Remove from 
fire and when mixture begins to thicken add vanilla, fruit and 
nut meats. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and 
chill. Remove to serving dish and garnish with holly. Serve 
with whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla. 

KNOX GELATINE makes Desserts, Salads, Candies, Puddings, 

Ices, Etc. 



86 DESSERTS 

CARAMEL PUDDING. 

2 cups brown sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

1 quart sweet milk (heaping) 

2 eggs 

Melt sugar, being careful not to burn ; add milk heated ; 
then eggs and the cornstarch, dissolved in a little cold milk. 
Flavor with vanilla ; add some broken nut meats and cook 
in double boiler. Place in mold or cups and serve cold with 
whipped cream. Mrs. W. F. Fuson. 

CARMEL PUDDING. 

1 cup sugar (scant) Pinch of salt 

1 pint hot milk 3 tablespoons cornstarch 

(level) 1 teaspoon butter 

Melt sugar in frying pan until brown, stirring constantly, 
so as not to burn. When all melted turn in hot milk. Cook- 
slowly until caramel is dissolved. Wet cornstarch in a little 
cold milk, add to above mixture. Cook until thick ; turn in 
molds and serve cold with cream. 

Mrs. C. F. Shirts, Chicago 

CARROT PUDDING. 

1 cup grated carrot 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup grated potato 1>4 cups flour 

1 cup chopped suet 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar Cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg 

1 cup raisins Steam 3 hours. 

1 cup currants 

Sauce. 
1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

^ cup butter ] cup boiling water 

Nutmeg 

Also good served with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Harvey Sutton, 

CARROT PUDDING. 

IJ^ cups Henkel's flour (raw) 

1 cup dark sugar 1 cup carrots grated (raw) 

1 cup suet /^ cup sweet milk 

1 cup currants 1 teaspoon s.->da 

2 cups raisins Spice to taste 
1 cup potatoes grated 

Citron, orange and lemon peel mnv be added if desired. 
Steam 3 hours. Serve with any kind of good sauce. 

Mrs. H. C. Leech. 



87 

BURVOI HAT SHOP 

[Fean Burnttein Ahlers) 

EXCLUSIVE 

MILLINERY 

303 DAVID WHITNEY BLDG. 
DETROIT 



The Norbro Shop 

Women's Wraps, Gowns, Suits 
Blouses, Lingerie and Negligee 

33 East Grand River Ave. 



Victor and Columbia Records 
Victrolas and Graphonolas 



74 LIliRAlO A\ K. ^^^ 

D K T FL O I T - A\ 1 C H I Ci A N 



Compliments of 

Mr. John Wiley 



88 DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING. 

1 pint milk 2 eggs 

Yz cup sugar Yz cup bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 3 tablespoons chocolate or 

Salt cocoa (rounded) 

Soak the bread in milk a few minutes ; add sugar, vanilla, 
salt, chocolate and beaten yolks of eggs. Bake in a moderate 
oven one-half hour. Beat whites of eggs, add 3 tablespoons 
sugar and 1 teaspoon lemon extract. Spread over pudding 
and brown in quick oven. Serve either hot or cold. 

Mrs. Chas. Ludlow. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

1 quart milk 4 tablespoons cornstarch 

3 tablespoons sugar 2^ tablespoons chocolate 

Scald milk in double boiler. Dissolve the cornstarch in 
a little scalded milk and before it thickens add the chocolate. 
Pour into individual cups and serve with cream. 

Grace Corey. 
CHOCOLATE RICE. 

1 cup rice 3 tablespoons cocoa 

2 quarts water Salt 

Wash rice and put into boiling water. Add cocoa and 
salt. Let boil hard at first and then more slowly. Cook 
about 20 minutes. Mrs. W. F. Munroe. 

DATE TAUTE. 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

2 eggs Yz cup Henkel's flour 

1 cup nuts Yi teaspoon Royal baking 

1 cup dates powder 

Yi cup butter 

Chop nuts and dates before adding to other ingredients. 
Pour about 1 inch in thickness in pudding dish and bake 
very slowly from 45 to 60 minutes ; cut in squares and serve 
with whipped cream. Mrs. G. W. Boden. 

Mrs. Harry M. Freed. 

DATE PUDDING. 

1 cut nuts 1 teaspoon Royal baking 

1 cup dates powder 
Y^ cup sugar 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons Henkel's flour 

Bake one-half hour or steam one hour. Serve with 
whipped cream. Mrs. Mac H. Wallace. 



DESSERTS 89 

FIG PUDDING. 

1 lb. figs 1 cup bread crumbs 

Yz cup sugar Yz teaspoon Royal baking 
Yz cup butter powder 

2 eggs 4 large teaspoons Henkel's 
Pinch of salt flour 

1 cup milk 

Cream sugar and butter ; add eggs beaten separately, 
milk, bread crumbs, salt, flour and baking powder. Scald 
and chop figs fine. Let stand in water a few minutes and 
add to batter. 

Hard Sauce. 

1 cup powdered sugar Butter size of ^^^^ 
4 teaspoons cream Flavoring 

Cream sugar and butter and when ready to serve add 
cream and flavoring. Mrs. H. Haggerty. 

FIG PUDDING. 

2 eggs powder 

1 cup sugar 1 cup English walnuts 

3 tablespoons Henkel's flour 1 cup chopju-d figs 
1 teaspoon Royal baking 

Beat eggs and sugar lightly, add flour, baking powder, 
figs and walnut meats broken in pieces ; stir well. Bake 
in slow oven 25 minutes ; stand dish in pan of hot water. 
Serve hot or cold with whipped cream. 

Mrs. McKean. 



FRUIT PUDDING. 

4 tablespoons tapioca (Min-^ cup sugar 

ute) 10 figs 

1 pint boiling water Y^ cup raisins 

1 cup dates 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil tapioca in double boiler until clear, stirring fre- 
quently. Add figs, dates, raisins, sugar and vanilla. Cook 
1 hour. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

]\Trs. Frank Bouton. 



KNOX GELATINE is clear and sparkling. 



90 DESSERTS 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 

1/^ cups Henkel's flour 1 teaspoon butter (heap'ng) 

2 teaspoons Royal baking 1 cup fresh fruit or berries 

powder Milk to make batter 

Salt 

Steam 45 minutes. Mrs. Nevvhall. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

^ cup molasses Ij/^ cups graham flour 

y^ cup butter y^ teaspoon soda 

y cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 Qgg 1 cup raisins 

Melt butter; add molasses, milk, beaten ^gg\ put soda 
and salt into flour. Mix a little of the flour with raisins and 
add them last. Steam in cups 1 hour. Serve with a sauce. 

Mrs. Robeson. 
Sauce. 
1 cup sugar 3^ pint boiling water 

3 tablespoons butter Juice and rind of 1 lemon 
1 tablespoon Henkel's flour 

Bo'l 3 or 4 minutes. Mrs. C. C. Curtis. 

MAPLE SPONGE. 

1 envelope Knox Sparkling sugar 

Gelatine >4 cup hot water 

iy2 cups cold water Whites of 2 eggs 

2 cups brown or maple 1 cup chopped nut meats 

Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Put sugar 
and hot water in saucepan, bring to boiling point and let 
boil ten minutes. Pour syrup gradually on soaked gelatine. 
Cool, and when nearly set, add wh'tes of eggs beaten until 
stifY, and nut meats. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold 
water, and chill. Serve with custard made of yolks of eggs, 
sugar, a few grains of salt, milk, and flavoring. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

1 cup bread, dried cake or down) 

cooky crumbs (packed 1 cup chopped suet 
1 cup molasses 1 egg 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup raisins 

3^ cup sugar, if cake or cooky 1 cup milk 

crumbs are used 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar if bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

are used Steam 3^ hours. 



DESSERTS 91 

Sauce. 

1 cup sugar Grated rind of 1 lemon 

Butter size of an egg White of 1 egg 

Cream butter and sugar, add lemon and whip in white 
of egg. Mrs. Dunbar. 

SUET PUDDING. 

1 cup milk (chopped) 

1 cup molasses Salt 

1 cup suet 2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup seeded raisins 3 cups Henkel's f^our 

Chop suet fine, add molasses, soda, milk, raisins, salt and 
flour. Steam 3 hours. Serve with a hot sauce. 

Sauce. 

2 cups pulverized sugar Butter size of an egg 
1 egg 1 gill milk 

Work sugar and butter together, add egg and work until 
creamy; add milk. Set on low fire and simmer until thick. 

Mrs. E. Moore. 

JERUSALEM PUDDING. 

1 cup rice, salted Yz walnut meats 

3^ cup dates 1 cup sugar 

^2 cup figs y2 box Knox plain gelatine 

Cook rice very well done, dissolve gelatine in one cup 
hot water, add to rice while warm. Add figs, nuts, dates cut 
in small pieces ; also ^2 pt. of cream whipped. Serve with 
whipped cream and cherry. Can be made a day or two before 
serving if kept cool. 

Mrs. S. Simmons. 

FIG PUDDING. 

1 cup finely chopped figs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

] scant cup sugar % teaspoon cloves 

1 scant cup suet 1 teaspoon Royal baking 

2 large cups bread crumbs powder 

1 cup milk 2 eggs (beaten) 

1 teaspoon salt 

Mix in order given and steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. S. Simmons. 

Where recipes call for Gelatine use KNOX GELATINE. 



32 DESSERTS 

NORWEGIAN PRUNE PUDDING. 

One-quarter lb. prunes, soak 1 hour in 1 cup cold water. 
Boil in same water until soft. Remove pits, put back in 
same water. Add Yi cup sugar, ^ cup boiling water, simmer 
ten minutes ; 1 tablespoon cornstarch, mix with cold water, 
add to prune mixture, cook 5 minutes. Add Yz tablespoon 
lemon juice. Then 1 &^^ white, beaten stiff, ^4 cup walnut 
meats chopped. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

CHERRY DELIGHT. 

Put 1 heaping tablespoon Knox gelatine, dissolved, in a 
little boiling water; 1 cup milk; 1 cup sugar in saucepan, stir 
until dissolved. Whip 2 cups cream, add cooled gelatine mix- 
ture gradually and diced candied cherries, pineapple, chopped 
and toasted almonds, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mold. 

Mrs. G. F. Bean. 

CHOCOLATE ICE-BOX CAKE. 

30 Lady fingers Yz lb. sweet chocolate 

Yi. pt. cream, whipped 2^ tablespoons water 

4 eggs (separated) 3 tablespoons sugar 

Line the sides and bottom of small form with lady fingers. 
For filling, melt chocolate in double boiler, add sugar and 
water with the yolks of eggs well beaten. Cook slowly until 
thick and smooth, stirring constantly. When cool add the 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Cover lady fingers with a layer 
of this filling, on top of this another layer of lady fingers, 
again some of the filling, with lady fingers on top. Place in 
ice-box 12 hours or more and when ready to serve remove to 
cake platter, cover with whipped cream, adding Ya cup pow- 
dered sugar and Y^ teaspoon vanilla. Decorate with pistachio 
nuts or cut candied cherries. 

Mrs. E. L Chase. 

SUET PUDDING. 

3 cups Henkel's flour 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup raisins 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup currants Nutmeg and lemon peel to 

1 cup suet (chopped fine) taste 

Mix with buttermilk; steam about 3 hours. 

Mrs. T^mes Bunting. 

KNOX GELATINE is GUARANTEED to please or money back. 



DESSERTS 93 



SODA PUDDING. 



6 tablespoons Henkel's flour 6 tablespoons brown sugar 
6 tablespoons currants 1 teaspoon soda 

6 tablespoons suet 

Mix stiff with milk and steam in a buttered basin 3 hours. 

Miss K. Mitchell. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

1/^ cup brown sugar 1 cup currants 

1 cup suet Orange peel 

3 eggs well beaten Nuts 

Yi cup milk 1/2 teaspoon allspice 

1 cup bread crumbs 5^ teaspoon cloves 

Yt. cup Henkel's flour y^. teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup raisins J/2 teaspoon cinnamon 

]\Iix ingredients in the order given and steam three hours. 

Pudding Sauce. 

Yz cup sugar 1 cup whipped cream 

2 Q^^ yolks beaten well 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

ALMOND CHARLOTTE. 

Blanch and chop 1 cup almonds, melt 3 tablespoons sugar 
in frying pan, add almonds, stir until well browned ; cool and 
pound fine. Put pounded almonds into double boiler with 
13^ cups milk, heat slowly. Beat yolks of 3 eggs and 3 table- 
spoons confectioner's sugar together ; add some of the hot 
milk, mix and turn into boiler, stirring constantly. Add IJ^ 
tablespoon Knox gelatine dissolved in half cup boiling water. 
Remove from fire, strain, cool, add 1 teaspoon almond extract 
and 2 cups whipped cream. Mold and decorate with wafers. 

Mrs. G. F. Bean. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

1 tablespoon Knox gelatine 3 tablespoons c:«Id water 

Va, cup honey 3^ cup strained apple sauce 

3 tablespoons boiling water 1 cup whipped cream 
1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, add 
honey, lemon juice and apple sauce. Cool, when it begins to 
harden around edges beat with beater, adding gradually whip- 
ped cream. When stiflf enough to drop, pour into mould and 
chill. The whites of 2 eggs beaten stifif may be used instead 
of cream and the charlotte served with soft custard. 

Dorothy E. Chandler. 



94 DESSERTS 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Yz pint whipping cream Yz pint milk 

54 cup sugar Yolks of 2 eggs 

34 teaspoon salt ^ box Knox gelatine 

Soak gelatine in 34 cup cold water 20 minutes. Scald 
milk, turn slowly on beaten yolks mixed with sugar and salt. 
Then return to fire in double boiler. When hot add soaked 
gelatine. Cool and add ^ pint whipped cream. Serve with 
whipped cream. Mrs. Harry M. Freed. 

CUSTARD. 

1 pint milk 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons sugar Nutmeg 
Pinch of salt 

Beat whites, but not too stifT. Add yolks and beat a 
little more. Add milk and nutmeg. Put iii custard cups. 
Grate nutmeg on top and set in pan of hot water. Do not 
have oven too hot. To try, put a silver knife in the center ; if 
it comes out clean custard is set. 

Mrs. Arthur Montgomery.. 

NUT FRAPPE. 

Yi. envelope Knox Sparkling strawberries 

Gelatine 1 cup cream 

34 cup cold water ^ cup milk 

Yi cup sugar White of one ^%^ 

1 cup cooked pineapple and 1 cup chopped nuts 

Soak gelatine in the cold water five minutes and dissolve 
over hot water. Add dissolved gelatme to cream, milk and 
sugar and stir in beaten white of ^%^. When cold, add the 
pineapple and strawberries which have been chopped in small 
pieces, also the chopped nuts. Serve ice cold in sberbert 
glasses. 

MACAROON CUSTARD. 

2 cups milk 3 eggs 

4 tablespoons sugar 34 lb. almond macaroons 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 

Make a custard of milk, sugar, yolks of eggs and corn- 
starch dissolved in a little cold milk. Put macaroons in dish 
and pour the hot custard over them. To the whites of eggs 
beaten very stiff add 3 tablespoons sugar ; put on top of cus- 
tard and brown. Set in a cool place for 4 or 5 hours. Serve 
with whipped cream. Marion F. Holt. 

KNOX GELATINE makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly. 



DESSERTS 95 

A DAINTY DESSERT. 

Cup cakes Whipped cream 

Apricots Nut meats 

Sugar 

Bake small cakes ; scoop out centers (making "nests") ; 
fill with sweetened whipped cream and cooked (or canned) 
apricots, which have been put through a sieve and mixed with 
the cream. Put nut meats on top. 

Mrs. C. J. Chandler. 

EASY DESSERT. 

Yi lb. macaroons 1 cup dates 

1 cup figs 

Break macaroons in small pieces ; cut figs and dates fine. 
Mix and serve with whipped cream. 

Christina Stringer. 

GINGERBREAD. 

1 cup molasses (Ginger- 1 it%% 

bread Man Brand) 2 teaspoons ginger 

1 cup sour milk or cream 1 teaspoon soda (even) 

2 cups Henkel's flour Pinch of salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add remaining ingredients ; 
beat well ; pour into buttered pan and bake 20 minutes. Serve 
hot with whipped cream. Christina Stringer. 

HEAVENLY HASH. 

1 pint whipping cream ^ cup nuts 

1 lb. marshmallows 1 tablespoon sugar 

y-i cup Maraschino cherries Yi cup pineapple 

Beat cream very stiff ; cut marshmallows in quarters with 
shears ; break nuts in small pieces. Have cherries and pine- 
apple dry and add just before serving. This should be very 
cold and served in glasses. 

Mrs. Arthur Montgomery. 

LEMON SOUFFLE. 

Whites of 4 eggs 1 tablespoon sugar 

Yolks of 3 eggs 1 Ifcmon 

Beat whites of eggs stiff and set aside. Beat yolks, add 
sugar, juice of lemon and some of the rind ; then add the 
whites gradually, beating all the while. Bake in buttered dish 
10 or 15 minutes or until a golden brown. Sprinkle powdered 
sugar on top and serve at once. 

Mrs. Van der Noot. 



95 

Tents Awnings Flags 

Campers Outfits 

Canvas Covers and Bags in StocJ^ 

Michigan Tent & Awning Co. 

Glendale 5205 1751 Lysander 

Bet. 12th & Avery 



Compliments of a Friend 



Telephone Glendale 979-M ALL WORK GUARANTEED 

H. BROSSOIT 

Ladies* and Gentlemen's Tailor 

(New or Remodeling) 
Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing 

Cor. Brooklyn and Hancock Aves. Detroit, Michigan 

'Uhe same YESTERDA Y, TODA Y and EVER Y'DAY 

ilartlja Magljington Cantiies; 

90c 



Old Time 



THE 
POUND 



Home Made 



3411 Woodward Avenue Phone Glendale 1 5 / 7 

Fountain Service in Connection 



DESSERTS 97 

LEMON CREAM. 

1 cup sugar ly^ cups boiling water 

1 lemop 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon cornstarch Pinch of salt 

Stir cornstarch into sugar thoroughly. Grate rind of 
lemon and add juices. Add yolks of eggs and beat well. Then 
add boiling water and cook until smooth. Then blend with 
beaten whites. Cool and serve in sherbet cups with a table- 
spoon of whipped cream. Mrs, Charles Rudd. 

MARSHMALLOW DESSERT. 

1/2 lb. marshmallows 3 tablespoons sugar 

y2 lb. walnuts J^ cup candied cherries 

y2 pint whipping cream Flavor to taste 

'Whip cream very stiff; cut marshmallows and cherries 
in small pieces ; add other ingredients ; mix. Put into six 
glasses ; sprinkle walnut meats and a few cherries on top. 
The sugar may be omitted. Ivie K. Barker. 

MOLDED SNOW. 

yi cup rice 5^ cup sugar 

1 pint milk y box Knox gelatine 

^ pint whipping cream Vanilla 

Boil rice in water for a short time ; drain off water and 
add milk, and boil until soft. Add sugar, gelatine and vanilla 
to taste. Set in cold water until cool. Then add whipped 
cream. Set away in mold to cool or until following day. 

Sauce. 
1 square Baker's chocolate 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

1 cup milk 54 cup of sugar 

When cold add beaten white of 1 egg. 

Mrs. Jas. Black, Chicago, 111 

ORANGE-BANANA CREAM. 

Orange jelly ^ cup sugar 

2 bananas 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
y pint whipping cream 

Fill sherbet glasses half full of orange jelly. Mash ban- 
anas with sugar and lemon juice. Beat with an egg beater 
until smooth and light ; then fold in whipped cream. Fill 
glasses with the banana cream over the orange jelly and serve 
very cold. 

Jello or any orange jelly may be used. 

Mrs. Jas. Black, Chicago, 111. 

A KNOX GELATINE Dessert or Salad is attractive and appetizing. 



98 DESSERTS 

PEAGH WHIP. 

Put 2 cups fresh or canned peaches through a sieve and 
sweeten; beat whites of 3 eggs until stiff; add gradually the 
fruit pulp ; turn into buttered mold ; set in pan of hot water 
(or in slow oven) to bake until firm. When cool cover top 
with whipped cream and garnish with cherries. May be made 
of any fruit pulp. Ivie K, Barker. 

PINEAPPLE WHIP. 
1 can pineapple 34 i'^- English walnuts 

1 lb. marshmallows . 1 pint cream 

Cut the pineapple, marshmallows and walnuts fine. Add 
cream, whipped, when ready to serve. Very nice without nuts. 

Mrs. Henry Bunn. 
PRUNE WHIP. 
1 lb. prunes -ji cup sugar 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Boil prunes until soft. When cool remove pits and chop 
fine. Add the beaten whites of eggs and sugar. Beat well 
and bake 20 minutes. Serve cold with sweetened whipped 
cream, flavored with vanilla. Mrs. Byron H. Edwards. 

PRUNE WHIP. 

1 cup prunes (cut up) Lemon juice 

^2 cup sugar Whites of 5 eggs beaten 

34 cup chopped nuts stifif 

Stand dish in pan of water and bake 20 minutes in mod- 
erate oven. Mrs. C. Westcott. 
KISS TORTE. 
6 egg whites 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 teaspoon vinegar 

Beat the whites very stiff, add sugar little at a time and 
beat, add the vanilla and vinegar. Bake in well buttered pat- 
tie tins 50 minutes in slow oven until dry. When do'ne they 
leave pan readily. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

SAUCE FOR STEAMED APPLES. 

1 cup granulated sugar Yolks 3 eggs beaten well 

Cook in double boiler ; when well heated add whites 
beaten very stiff. Cook, cool, add 3 tablespoons vanilla. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

COLD SAUCE FOR ANY PLAIN STEAM PUDDING. 

Cream together 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup granulated sugar 

Add 1 cup strawberries or 1 cup fresh sliced peaches' 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 



DESSERTS 99 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

(Six to eight persons) 
2^ table spoons Knox cream 

Gelatine Juice 1 lemon 

1 can sliced pineapple % cup sugar 

^2 pint (1 cup) whipped A few preserved cherries 

Chop finely about ^ of the sliced pineapple. Put the 
gelatine into a saucepan with the pineapple juice made up 
with water to ^ of a pint, add sugar and lemon juice, dissolve 
gently over the fire. Strain and when cool mix in the whip- 
ped cream. Pour into a wet ring mold. When firm, turn out 
onto some slices of pineapple, fill up the center with chopped 
pineapple ; decorate with whipped and sweetened cream and 
preserved cherries. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

¥ 

MAPLE MOUSSE. 

1 cup maple syrup Yolks of 4 eggs 

1 pint cream 

Boil synip and yolks of eggs in double boiler 15 minutes. 
When cool add cream whipped stiff and freeze. 

Mrs. Eveard Hartwell 
LEMON ICE. 

1 pint lemon juice 1 cjuart sugar 
Rind of 3 lemons 1 quart water 
Whites of 4 eggs 

Put rinds of lemon in water and let stand until highly 
flavored. Add lemon juice and sugar. When parth^ frozen 
add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. This recipe 
makes about 2 quarts. Lillian M. Hall, Toledo. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 
3 cups pineapple 2 cups sugar 

Juice of 1 lemon 2 cups water 

Stir sugar and water until sugar is dissolved; add pine- 
apple finely shredded, lemon juice, and freeze. Makes one 
quart. Mrs. Harry Ellison. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBERT. 

2 cups pineapple 2 cups sugar 
Juice of 1 lemon 1 cup water 
Whites of 2 eggs 

Stir sugar and water until sugar is dissolved ; add pine- 
apple finely shredded and lemon juice and partly freeze. Add 
eggs well beaten and finish freezing. Marion F. Holt. 



100 DESSERTS 

RED RASPBERRY SHERBET. 

1 quart berries ^ pint water (fully) 

1>4 cups sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

White of 1 egg 

Crush raspberries and put through sieve ; add sugar and 
stir well. Then add a large half pint of water. Freeze until 
partly set. Then add white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, 
juice of lemon and finish freezing. 

Mrs. Harry Ellison. 

ANGEL PARFAIT. 

y2 cup sugar J/2 pint whipping cream 

y2 cup water Whites of 8 eggs 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Beat whites of 
eggs stiff and add the syrup. Whip the cream stiff and fold 
into the syrup and eggs ; add vanilla and pack in salt and ice. 
Let stand four hours. Put fruit and nuts in if desired. 

Mrs. Geo. McKean 
GINGER PARFAIT. 
1 cup sugar (cut in small pieces) 

1 pint heavy cream Whites of 3 eggs 

1 cup water 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 cup preserved ginger 2 tablespoons ginger syrup 

Boil sugar and water until it threads ; add it slowly to 
the stiffly beaten whites; then the lemon juice and ginger- 
syrup. Pour into a mold that it will fill and pack in equal 
parts of ice and salt. Let stand 3 or 4 hours. 

K. L. Savigny. 
MAPLE PARFAIT. 
ly^ to 2 cups of maple 4 eggs 

syrup 1 pint whipping cream 

Bring the syrup to boiling point ; add it slowly to the 
beaten yolks, stir until it thickens ; cool. Have cream ready ; 
fold It into the syrup and egg mixture. Beat whites of eggs 
stiff and fold them in also. Put into a mold and let it stand in 
ice and salt 4 hours. Mrs. Geo. McKean. 

MAPLE MOUSSE. 

1 cup maple syrup Yolks of 5 eggs 

1 pint whipping cream 

Boil syrup ; beat yolks until light ; stir into syrup. Cook 
thoroughly in double boiler. When cold beat in whipped 
cream. Put in mold and pack in ice five hours. 

Mrs. H. L. Comin. 

Try the KNOX GELATINE recipes found in this book. 



DESSERTS 101 

CHERRY SHERBET. 

Yz pint pitted cherries 1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon Knox gelatine Juice of 1 lemon 
Whites of 2 eggs I pint water 

Dissolve sugar in water ; add the gelatine a/ter dissolving 
in Yz cup water; add the cherries and half freeze. Stir in 
beaten whites of eggs and finish freezing. 

Ruth Sommer, 
PLAIN ICE CREAM. 

3 eggs 2 cups sugar 

1 quart milk 3 tablespoons flour 

1 quart cream 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Add the cream last. Mrs. Eveard G. Hartwell. 

ICE CREAM. 

1 pint milk 2 or 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons flour 1 pint cream 
Salt ' Vanilla 

1^ cups sugar 

Boil milk ; add 1 cup sugar, flour, eggs, and salt. Cook 
until thick, then cool. Better to make this the day before 
using. Before freezing add 1 pint cream, ^ cup sugar and 
vanilla. Selected. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

Yz pint cream 1 cup macaroon crumbs 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon bitter almond 

2 eggs extract 
Yi. pint milk 

Beat eggs, sugar and cream together; add crumbs, milk, 
flavoring and freeze. Makes 1 quart. M. F. H. 

PEACH CREAM. 

4 large peaches 1 cup sugar 

Yi. pint cream Whites of 2 eggs 

Mash peaches well and mix with sugar and let stand 
in refrigerator two hours or more if possible. Then put 
into freezer and freeze about 3 minutes ; then add cream and 
the welf beaten whites of eggs and finish freezing. Makes 
1 quart. Selected. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Yz pint cream Y^ pint strong coffee 

Ya pint milk 1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 

Beat eggs, sugar and cream together; add milk and cof- 
fee and freeze. Selected. 



102 DESSERTS 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Yz pint cream 1 pint strawberries 

1^ cup sugar 

Add sugar to berries before crushin-g; add cream, stir 
well together and freeze. Mrs. Harry Ellison. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

1 pint milk 1 cup sugar 

Yi pint cream 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat eggs, sugar and cream together; add milk and 
vanilla and freeze. Makes one quart. 

Marion Holt. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

4 tablespoons chocolate 1 cup milk 

(grated) Yz <^^'P sugar 

2 tablespoons water 

Dissolve chocolate and water in double boiler ; then add 
milk and sugar. Bring to a boil and stir until thickened. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

FROZEN FIG PUDDING. 

1 pint milk Y^ cup dates 
Yi cup sugar ■ ^ cup figs 

2 eggs Y^ cup English walnuts 
1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat eggs, milk, sugar together, and cook until it thick- 
ens. When nearly cool stir in dates, figs, and nuts chopped 
fine. Add vanilla and freeze. 

Carol M. Holt. 

LEMON ICE. 

1 quart milk Grated rind of 2 lemon 

1 pint cream juice of 3 

2 cups sugar 

Heat milk, sugar and rind until sugar is thoroughly dis- 
solved. Cool and add cream. When about half frozen add 
juice of the lemons. Mrs. C. A. Britt. 

Pink Coloring for fancy desserts in each package of KNOX 
GELATINE. 



DESSERTS 103 

FRUIT SHERBET 

(Economical) 

1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling 1 orange 

Gelatine (scant measure) 3 cups rich milk 
15^ cups sugar 1 lemon 

Grate the outside of both orange and lemon. Squeeze 
out the juice and add to this the sugar. Soak the gelatine 
in part of a cup of milk for 5 minutes, and dissolve by 
standing in pan of hot water. Stir into the rest of the milk. 
When it begins to freeze add the fruit juice and sugar, and 
fruit of any kind if desired. This makes n large allowance 
for five persons. 



Standard Ice Cream Co. 

HOME DELIVERIES 

I 40 or 850-R 6350 Van Dyke Ave. 



104 



Healthful 

Reliable 

Economical 



1^ 






m: 



The prudent 

housewife avoids 

substitutes, which may 

contain aluniy and uses 

ROYAL 

BAKING 
POWDER 

\ 
Absolutely Pure ^^^~ 

Made from Cream of Tartar, \ 
^ derived from grapes. ^ 



p' 



^. .,,,«^ 



dakpa 



Light as a feather, 

Dainty and sweet; 
'Tis beating and sifting 

Makes cake good to eat. 

— M. K. C. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Whites of 8 eggs (9 if small) 1 cup flour 

1^ cups sugar 5^ teaspoon cream of tartar 

Sift sugar and flour 4 or 5 times, measure and set 
aside. Add pinch of salt to eggs and whip to a foam, then 
add cream of tartar and whip until very stiff ; add sugar and 
beat in, then flavor and beat in ; lastly, fold flour in lightly. 
Bake in a tube pan which has never been greased, 20 to 40 
minutes, in moderate oven. Mrs. G. E. McKean. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of 8 large eggs 1 cup sugar 

1 cup flour " Yz teaspoon cream of tartar 

Sift flour before measuring and then sift 3 times again: 
set aside. Add pinch of salt to eggs, whip to a foam, add 
cream of tartar and whip until very stiff, then add sugar 
and beat ; add flavor and beat ; then fold flour lightly through. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Herman Sommer. 

MOCK ANGEL FOOD. 

1 cup Herikel's flour 1 pinch salt 

1 cup sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

3 teaspoons Royal baking 1 cup scalding milk 
powder 
Sift dry ingredients 5 times. Fold in stiff, beaten whites 
of eggs. Do not grease tins ; bake in moderate oven. 

Frost with 1 cup confectioners' sugar and 2 teaspoons 
of cream or 2 of orange or grape juice. 

Miss L. S. Hunt. 
Mrs. C C. Curtis. 



KNOX GELATINE solves the problem of "What to have for 

dessert?" 



106 CAKES 

TWO EGG ANGEL FOOD. 

Whites of 2 eggs 3 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 cup sugar - powder 

1 cup Henkel's flour 1 pinch salt 

1 cup scalding milk 

Set the cup of milk in a pan of hot water and bring to 
boiling point. Sift dry ingredients 6 times, pour in hot milk 
and beat and stir briskly. Lastly, add the beaten egg whites, 
folding in lightly. Do not flavor batter, nor grease tins. 
Moderate oven. Mrs. Harry L. Scott. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

2 cups brown sugar flour 

1 level cup grated chocolate /j level teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 1 level teaspoon Royal 
^2 cup butter baking powder 

Yolks of 3 eggs 3/2 level teaspoon soda 

2 level cups sifted Henkel's 

Cook 1 cup sugar, the chocolate and ^ cup milk until 
smooth and dissolved. Set aside to cool. Cream 1 cup sugar 
with butter, add eggs, well beaten, and ^ cup milk. Beat 
in the flour sifted with salt, baking powder and soda. Finally, 
beat in the cold, cooked chocolate. Bake in 2 or 3 layers. 

Mrs. John Dudley. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

iy2 cups sugar 2 squares Baker's chocolate 

3^2 cup butter dissolved in ^ cup boil- 

3/2 cup sour milk (buttermilk ing water 

preferred) y^ teaspoon Royal baking 

2 cups -Henkers flour powder 

2 eggs (beaten) 

Lastly, add 1 scant teaspoon soda dissolved in warm 
water. Frosting: whipped cream stirred stifT with powdered 
sugar and flavored. Mrs. Frank Kennedy. 

FIVE MINUTE BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

1 egg 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup milk 1 cup sugar 

3 tablespoons cocoa ly cups Henkel's flour 
1 teaspoon soda 

Cook egg, cocoa and y milk until creamy, then add 
butter ; when melted add rest of milk, sugar and flour. 

Mrs. T. H. Schooley. 

KNOX GELATINE is GUARANTEED to please or money back. 



MEMORANDA 107 



108 CAKES 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

5 level tablespoons butter flour 

134 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

35^ sq. Baker's chocolate % cup milk 

3 eggs 33^ level teaspoons Royal 

13^ cups Henkel's pastry baking powder 

Cream butter, add sugar and melted chocolate, then the 
unbeaten eggs and vanilla and beat together until very 
smooth. Sift baking powder with Yz cup flour and use first ; 
then alternate the milk and remaining flour and make mix- 
ture stiff enough to drop from the spoon. Beat until very 
smooth and bake in loaf in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. A. A. Higginson. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

13^ cups powdered sugar % cup milk 

Yz cup butter 2 heaping teaspoons Royal 

2 cups Henkel's flour baking powder 

3 eggs 

Heat the following and add to the other part: Ij^ squares 
bitter chocolate, 3 tablespoons water, 3 tablespoons powdered 
sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mrs. W. W. Hall, Toledo, O. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Yz cup boiling water Y^- cup sour cream 

Y2. cup grated chocolate (or 2 cups Henkel's flour 
cocoa) 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon Royal baking 

Y2 cup butter powder 

2 eggs Y^- teaspoon vanilla 

Put chocolate in the boiling water, cook and stir until 
it begins to thicken ; then add other ingredients. 

Mildred E. Williams. 

ONE EGG COCOA CAKE. 

Yolk of 1 ^^'g, beaten flour 

Y2 cup milk Y'2 cup milk 

1 tablespoon cocoa or 34 Ya teaspoon soda 

cake chocolate 1 teaspoon Royal baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

1 tablespoon butter Vanilla 

13^ cups sifted Henkel's 

Mix well first 3 ingredients, cook up, then cool. Add 
to this the rest of ingredients. Use white of ^gg for frosting. 

Mrs. H. Sommer. 



CAKES 109 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

2 cups light brown sugar chocolate 

Yi cup butter . 1 teaspoon soda 

2 eggs Yi cup boiling water 
Yi cup sour milk ] teaspoon vanilla 

Yl cup grated, unsweetened 2 cups Henkel's flour 
Pour boiling water over the chocolate. 

Luella Durst. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

Whites of 6 eggs ^ powder 

y^ cup butter 2 cups sugar 

Yi. cup cornstarch 1 cup milk 

3 teaspoons Royal baking 2 cups Henkel's flour 

Bake in 2 shallow tins and put together with the follow- 
ing caramel : 2 squares Baker's chocolate 
Yi. lb. sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 teaspoon butter Yi cup water or milk 

Stir, setting dish in boiling water until stiff enough to 
spread. Set cake in oven to dry. 

Ruth Dudley. 

MARBLE CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

2 cups Henkel's flour ^ cup milk 
Y2 cup butter 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs and milk. Sift 
flour and baking powder twice, add to mixture, beat well, 
flavor with lemon. For the dark part, reserve a generous 
cup of batter, add 1 tablespoon of cocoa melted in 1 teaspoon 
hot water. Mix well, flavor with a dust of cinnamon and 
vanilla. Drop the dark mixture into the cake batter which 
has been placed in tin ; press dark batter down into light, to 
make it mottled. 

Rhobie Niles. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

10 teaspoons melted butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 squares Baker's chocolate 1 cup walnut meats 
2 scant cups Henkel's flour 

Beat eggs in a teacup and fill with milk. Mix sugar 
with melted butter, add eggs, milk and other ingredients. 
Put layers together with boiled frosting. 

Mrs. J. E. Warren. 



no CAKES 

CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE. 

Yi cup butter 4 eggs 

lYi cups sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups Henkel's Velvet ^ cup milk 

flour 4 ounces chocolate 

2 teaspoons Royal baking 1 teaspoon vanilla 

powder 

Cream butter and sugar, add ^%^ yolks, vanilla and 
chocolate (which has been dissolved in 5 tablespoons boiling 
water). Alternate milk and flour and beat hard. Then add 
whipped whites of eggs, turn into buttered shallow square 
pan and bake in moderate oven. Line pan with paper. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

CHOCOLATE NOUGAT. 

Yz cup butter Yz teaspoon soda 

XYz cups sugar ^ cup sweet milk 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon cream tartar 
Ya Ib.^ Baker's chocolate 5 tablespoons sugar 

1/4 cups unsifted Henkel's 3 tablespoons boiling water 

flour 

Stir chocolate and water over fire until smooth ; add this 
to butter and sugrr; then add eggs; then milk and flour alter- 
nately. Mix well. Bake in 4 layers in slow oven. Do not 
open oven door too soon. Put together with boiled frosting 
made with whites of 2 eggs ; ^^ pound shelled almonds and 
1 teaspoon vanilla. Mrs. A, C. Stellwagen. 

CHOCOLATE NOUGAT. 

1 level teaspoon butter Ya teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar I cup sifted Henkel's flour 
Yolk of 1 ^^^ 1 teaspoon Royal baking 

2 squares Baker's chocolate powder 
^ cup milk 

Mix butter and sugar, add melted chocolate and other 
ingredients and lastly fold in beaten white of ^^,%.- Bake in 
slow oven. Mrs. George E. Potter. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

Yolk of 4 eggs 1 large cup sugar 

1 cup chopped raisins 1 cup thick sour jnilk 

1 teaspoon soda Some citron, cloves, nutmeg. 

\Y2 cups Henkel's flour 

Bake in 3 layers and put together with soft frosting made 
with whites of eggs. 

Mrs. H. Hagerty 



CAKES 111 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

2 cups light brown sugar 1 cup unsifted Henkel's 
j/2 cup butter flour 

3 eggs (save 1 white for 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

frosting) ^ cup butter 

j/2 cup milk 
Some citron, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon. 

Cream butter a.nl sugar, add other ingredients in order 
given. Heat j^ cup milk with 3 squares Baker's chocolate, 
cook to a paste ; add to cake, with 1 rounding teaspoon soda 
sifted with ly^ cups flour. 

Frosting: ^ cup sugar, i^ scant cup water. Boil until 
it threads, beat in white of egg, Y^ cup confectioners sugar, 
1 teaspoon vanilla. Beat well. Mrs. E. T Chase. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

4 eggs 2 teaspoons Royal baLl.vi 
2 cups sugar powder 

2 cups Henkel's flour 1 pin-^h salt 
1 cup boiling water 

Beat eggs about Y^. hour; add sugar gradually, beating 
light ; next add flour, baking powder and salt. Last add 
boiling water, folding in carefully until smooth. Flavor 
with vanilla. Bake about 45 minutes in slow oven. 

Mrs. Wurster. 

NEVER FAIL SPONGE CAKE. 

1 cup sugar 8 tablespoons hot water 

1 cup Henkel's velvet flour 5 eggs 

1 teaspoon Royal baking 1 pinch salt 

pow^der 1 teaspoon vanilla or lemon 

Beat sugar and egg yolks 15 minutes, add hot water; 
sift flour and baking powder several times, add them and 
put in flavoring. Lastly add whites of eggs beaten stiffly. 
Bake in angel food pan 35 minutes. 

, Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

SIMPLE SPONGE CAKE. 

1 cup sugar 2 level teaspoons Royal 

3 eggs baking powder 
Flavoring >^ cup cold water 
11/2 cups Henkel's pastry flour 

Cream sugar and yolks of eggs ; add wat^r and other 
ingredients. Lastly fold in beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
slow oven 45 minutes Mrs. Claude F. Soflflett. 



KNOX GELATINE is GUARANTEED to please or money back. 



112 CAKES 

SPONGE CAKE. 

y\ cup sugar powder 

'i eggs ^ cup hot water 

1 cup sifted Henkel's flour 1 pinch salt 

1 teaspoon Royal baking 

Beat eggs well; add sugar slowly, ^ at a time. Add 
water and flour alternately. 

Mrs. C. F. Shirts, Chicago, 111. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

3 eggs 2 cups Henkel's flour 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons Royal baking 
Yz cup boiling water powder 

Beat sugar and eggs, add flour and baking powder and 
lastly water. Bake 30 minutes. Mrs. C. J. Conzelman. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

6 eggs iy2 cups Henkel's flour 

lyi. cups sugar 1 pinch salt 

3 tablespoons cold water 3^ teaspoon cream tartar 
Vanilla 

Beat egg whites and yolks separately. Sift flour and 
sugar each 6 times, add sugar gradually to whites of e.gg to 
which is beaten salt and cream tartar. Add vanilla and lastly 
fold in flour. Bake in very slow oven 50 minutes. 

Mrs. S. Guilloz. 

SPONGE LAYER CAKE. 

IK cups Henkel's flour powder 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup sugar \ pinch salt 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla 

2 teaspoons Royal baking 

Cream sugar and butter, add well beaten yolks of eggs, 
then milk and flavoring. Sift flour and baking powder 4 
times and mix and beat well. Fold in well beaten egg whites. 
Moderate oven Miss Gillis. 

Mrs. Charle§ Rudd. 
FILLING. 

1 scant cup sugar 5^ cup chopped cherries 

2 tablespoons water Yz cup chopped walnuts 
2 tablespoons maple syrup 2 whites of eggs 

Boil sugar, syrup and water until it crystals when drop- 
ped in cold water ; pour slowly on to the beaten whites and 
beat until creamy ; add nuts and well drained cherries. Spread 
on top and between layers. Miss Gillis. 



WOMEN WILL 

VOTE 



what is 




PURE 



and 



The 
that 



GOOD 

flour 
always 



wins their confidence is 

HENKEUS 



BEST 



BREAD FLOUR 

FOR BREAD 

''VELVET BRAND" 

FOR PASTRY 

"It DOES Make a Difference What Flour You Use' 




114 CAKES 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Whites of 7 eggs 1 cup Henkel's flour 

5 egg yolks 1 pinch salt 

l}i cups sugar y^ teaspoon cream of tartar 

Flavoring .' 

Sift sugar and flour 5 times, measure and set aside. Sep- 
arate eggs, beat yolks to stiff froth, whip whites to a foam ; 
add cream of tartar and whip stiff. Add sugar to whites, then 
beat ; next add yolks and beat, then flour and flavoring and 
fold lightly through. Moderate oven 40 to 50 minutes in tube 
tin which has never been greased. 

Mrs. G. E. McKean. 

SUNSHINE SPONGE CAKE. 

Whites of 7 eggs 1 scant cup Henkel's flour 

Yolks of 5 eggs ^4 teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon orange extract 

Measure flour after sifting 5 times. Beat yolks until 
thick, set aside. Add a pinch of salt and the cream tartar to 
whites of eggs and beat until stiff; add sugar. Beat thor- 
oughly, then add flavoring and beaten yolks. Beat again 
lightly and carefully ; stir in the flour. Bake in tube pan, in 
moderate oven, 40 to 50 minutes. Mrs. Bachmann. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

5 large eggs 1 cup sifted Henkel's flour 

1 cup sugar y^ teaspoon cream of tartar 

Sift flour again 3 or 4 times and set aside. Separate eggs, 
putting whites in m'xing bowl ; beat yolks to a very stiff 
froth ; add pinch of salt to whites and whip to a foam, then 
add cream of tartar and whip until very stiff. Add sugar to 
the whites and beat in ; then add yolks and beat and add flav- 
oring. Add flour and fold lightly through. Put in a slow oven 
and bake about 40 minutes or more. 

Mrs. Herman Sommer. 

A little spice to make it nice. 

— M. K. C. 



Pink Coloring for fancy desserts in each package of KNOX 
GELATINE. 



CAKES 115 

SPICE CAKE. 

-/t, cup melted butter 1 tablespoon mixed spices 

2^ cup sugar 1 eg,g, 

Yz cup molasses 2^/2 heaping cups Hcnkel's 

1 cup milk flour 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 cup raisins (dredged in powder 

flour) 

Mix butter, sugar, molasses, milk and spices, then add 
well beaten ^g,^; then flour, baking powder, raisins and lastly 
lemon juice. Moderate oven. Mrs. Geo. E. Potter. 

SPICE CAKE. 

lA cup butter iy2 cups Henkel's flour 

J cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3/2 cup sour milk J4 teaspoon cloves 

y2 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon molasses J4 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs beaten separately 1 cup raisins 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks, sour milk, 
molasses, and sifted dry ingredients, raisins and vanilla. Last- 
Iv, fold in beaten whites. Moderate oven, about V^ hour. 

Mrs. P. Durst. 

SPICE CAKE. 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup butter 3 cup? Henkel's flour 

3 eggs 25^ teaspoons cinnamon 
1 cup sour milk ] V2 teaspoon? cloves 

Blend sugar with butter, add yolks and the socia dissolved 
in sour milk ; then add flour and spices. Mix well and add 
beaten whites. Bake in layers. 

Mrs. W. W. Hall. Toledo, O. 

SOUR CREAM SPICE CAKE. 

1 cup butter -4 eggs (whites added last) 

2 cups sugar 3 cups Henkel's flour 
1 cup sour cream (or milk) 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon Royal baking Cinnamon, cloves, rais ns or 

powder nuts 

If too stiflf add luke warm water until batter bubbles and 
breaks. Carol M. Holt. 

Give the growing children KNOX GELATINE. 



116 CAKES 



SPICE CAKE. 



1 cup sugar 2 cups Henkel's flour 

1 tablespoon butter 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 cup milk powder 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon nutmeg 1 teaspoon cloves 

Make any white frosting, add 3 drops oil of cloves. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

y2 cup of Judges V, 25 (last 3 cups of I Samuel XXX. 12 

clause) 1 pound of Numbers XVII, 8 

1 cup Judges IV, 19 (last 2 cups Jeremiah VI, 20 

clause) 6 — -of — Isaiah X, 14 

A pinch of Leviticus II, 13 3^ cups of I Kings IV, 22 
A large spoonful of I Samuel 2 teaspoons of I Corinthians 

XIV, 25 V, 6 (soda) 

Season to taste with I Kings 1 cup Nahum III, 12 

X, 2 

If to this you add 2 cups of dates, 1 cup of currants and 
y pound of citron, your cake will be like the land mentioned 
in Numbers XIV, 7. 

Following King Solomon's advice for bringing up chil- 
dren, Proverbs XXIII, 13. 

^Irs. F. B. Williams. 
An old "Brewster" recipe. 







FRUIT 


CAKE. 


1 


dozen eggs 




lb. sugar 


2 


lbs. raisins 




tablespoon allspice 


2 


lbs. currants 




tablespoon cinnamor 


1 


lb. citron 




ta1)lespoon cloves 


1 


lb. almonds 




tablespoon mace 


1 


lb. Henkel's flour 




nutmeg 


1 


lb. butter 


2 


tumblers fruit juices 



Cream, butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs and beat very 
light; add beaten whites, then flour, spices and fruit juices. 
Lastly add fruit thoroughly floured. Bake very slowly 4 hours. 

Mrs. George E. Potter. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

1 cup brown sugar . 1 teaspoon soda 

^ cup lard and butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 cup sour milk y^ lb. seeded raisins 
Flavoring Henkel's Flour to thicken 

Mrs. Reed. 



CAKES 



117 



PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

Yz cup butter 

2 scant cups sugar 

3 eggs 
y^ cup rich milk 

4 cups Henkel's flour 
Citron, lemon peel and 

spices 

Bake in moderate oven 



1 teaspoon Royal baking 

powder in flour 
\ teaspoon soda, in milk 
1 lb. raisins 
Yi lb. currants 
1 cup chopped English 
walnuts 

Mrs. Durbin Newton. 



SCOTCH FRUIT CAKE. 



juice and ji rated 



1 lemon. 

rind 
1 teaspoon Royal baking 

powder 



1 lb. sugar 
^4 lb. l)utter 
1 lb. Henkel's flour 
1 lb. seeded raisins 
8 eggs 

Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately. 

Mrs. Samuel S. Bradt. 

EGOLESS FRUIT CAKE. 



1 cup sugar 
Yi. cup shortening 
1 cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups Henkel's flour 

Very nice made in 2 layers, put together with frosting. 

Mrs. H. Z. Parry. 



1 cup raisins 
1 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon cloves 



NO FLOUR CAKE 

Yi lb. almonds 3^ lb. confectioner's sugar 

1 teaspoon cinnamon Grated rind 1 lemon 

8 eggs . Salt 

Put almonds through chopper twice, but do not blanch 
them. Separate, eggs and fold in stifTly beaten whites. Bake 
in angel food tin 1 hour in slow oven. 

Icing made of juice of lemon and confectioners sugar. 
Mrs. McChristian, Pontiac, Mich. 

DATE LOAF. 

1 lb. dates ^ teaspoon salt 

Yi lb. English walnuts 1 cup sugar 

1 cup and 2 teaspoons Hen- 4 eggs, beaten separately 

kel's flour Vanilla 

2 rounding teaspoons Royal Bake 1 hour in slow oven 

baking powder 

Mrs. Jerome K. Stock. 



118 CAKES 

POUND CAKE. 

1 heaping- cup sugar Yz pint Henkel's flour 

Yz cup butter ^ teaspoon cream of tartar 

4 eg-gs 34 teaspoon soda 

Cream, butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs, beaten, little 
flour in which has been sifted cream of tartar. Add soda 
dissolved in spoonful of hot milk, whites of eggs, well beaten, 
and balance of flour. Mrs. Harry M. Freed. 

SPANISH BUN. 

4 eggs (take out 3 whites 3 cups Henkel's flour 
for frosting) 3 teaspoons Royal baking 

2 cups sugar powder 

Yz cup butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon allspice 

Should fall a little in baking to be good. 

Mrs. H Hagerty. 

CHOCOLATE ROLL. 

Yolks 5 eggs beaten, add 2 tablespoons cocoa 
1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon Henkel's flour Whites of eggs 
Bake in shallow pan 20 minutes. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

NUT CAKES. 

Four eggs and 8 cups brown sugar, beaten together, 1 
cup Henkel's flour, 1 teaspoon Royal baking powder, 1 cup 
pecans and little salt. No milk nor butter. Drop with tea- 
spoon on buttered pan. Mrs. C. A. Bachmann. 

LADY CARVER CAKE. 

One cup sugar. Vz cup butter, 2 cups Henkel's flour. Mix 
as for pie crust. Set aside ^ cup of this mixture. To the 
other part add 1 beaten ^%^, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon 
baking soda, 1 cup raisins, 1 teaspoon allspice, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon and Ya teaspoon nutmeg. Put in square tin 
and over the top spread the half cup of original mixture. 
When baked this takes place of a frosting. 

Miss Hazel Donald. 



Use KNOX GELATINE— the two quart package. 



CAKES 119 

NUT CAKES. 

Three eggs, I3/2 cups sugar, 1 scant cup butter, 3 cups 
Henkel's flcjur, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 2 teaspoons hot 
water, 3^ Ih. shelled walnuts. 1 lb. dates or raisins, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, y^ teaspoon allspice, ^ teaspoon cloves, little nut- 
meg, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon lemon. Mix in order 
given, drop on tins and bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. S. Simmons. 

COCOA TEA CAKES. 

3 tablespoons shortening 3 teaspoons Royal baking 

^2 cup sugar powder 

^ cup Karo Corn syrup I/3 cup cocoa 

1 egg (beaten well) ^ teaspoon salt 
1^ cup barley, oat or wheat Flavor with vanilla 
flour 

Cream shortening and sugar, add egg, milk and syrup 

with sifted dry ingredients. Bake in greased muffin tins 20 

minutes in hot oven. Dorothy E. Chandler. 

Those are all very well for rich folks, I ween, 
But how about cakes for a purse that is lean? 

— M. K. C. 

BUTTERLESS, EGOLESS, MILKLESS CAKE. 

1 cup brown sugar V^. nutmeg (grated) 

1 cup water 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 cups seeded raisins 1 teaspoon cloves 
Yz cup lard 1 pinch salt 

Boil all together 3 minutes ; when cold add 1 teaspoon 
soda dissolved in a little water; l}i cups Henkel's flour in 
which y2 teaspoon baking powder has been sifted. Bake in 
loaf, moderate oven, 30 minutes. Mrs. Hill. 

DARK CAKE. 

2 eggs 1 cup molasses 

1/^ cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 tablespoon butter 2^^ cups Henkel's flour 

1^ cups sour cream 1 teaspoon Royal baking 

13^ teaspoons cinnamon powder 

1 pound seedless raisins ^ teaspoon cloves 

Beat eggs, add sugar and butter and beat thoroughly ; 
next add cream, molasses and soda (dissolved in hot water). 
Sift baking powder with flour. Bake slowly in small drip- 
ping pan. Mrs. Morton. 



120 CAKES 

DARK CAKE. 

1 egg ^i cup cold water 

V2 cup brown sugar 2 cups Henkel's flour 

^ cup molasses 1 small teaspoon soda 

1 tablespoon butter 

Dissolve soda in warm water and add last. 

Filling and Icing. 

1 white of egg, beaten of spoon 

Cream of tartar to cover end 1 cup sugar. 

Moisten sugar with water and boil until it forms soft 
ball, pour slowly on beaten egg; add y^ cup shopped raisins, 
beat all together until cool and thick enough 

Mrs. W. E. Cowan. 

CORK CAKE. 

1^4 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup butter 1 cup raisins 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon allspice 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon cloves 
2y^ cups Henkel's flour 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Mrs. Dunbar. 
POTATO CAKE, 

4 eggs powder 

1 cup sugar 3^ cup potato flour 

15^ teaspoons Royal baking 

Beat sugar and yolks of eggs ; add flour and baking pow- 
der, salt, vanilla and lemon ; lastly whites of eggs. 

Mrs. C. Westcott 
Mrs. Durbin Newton. 

EGOLESS LOAF CAKE. 

1 scant cup sugar 2 cups Henkel's flour 

^ teaspoon salt ^A cup raisins 

5^ scant cup shortening 3^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup sour milk 

T teaspoon vanilla /4 cup chopped walnut meats 

Dissolve soda in a little sweet milk, then whip it into a 
cup of sour milk. Bake ^4 hour in slow oven. 

Mrs. Herman Jacobi. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

Butter size of walnut 1 cup apple sauce 

1 cup brown sugar 2 cups Henkel's flour 

1 egg 1 teaspoon soda 

Spices to taste 

Mrs. A. Mitchell. 



121 



WM. MOELLER 

Dry Goods, Notions and 
Men's Furnishing Goods 



Walnut 3536 5416 Lincoln Avenue 



S. J. GUILLOZ G. E. GUILLOZ 

Walnut 31 

S. J. GUILLOZ & SON 

Garland Warm Air Furnaces 

Heating and Ventilating 

5646 Grand River Ave. Detroit, Mich. 



Established 1898 
F. W. COWLEY 

Upholstering and Mattress Making 

Phone 1321-1323 

WALNUT 1123 KIRBY AVE., West 

COR. BROOKLYN 



122 CAKES 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

25^ cups apple sauce 1 tablespoon nutmeg 

1 cup butter or lard 1 tablespoon cloves 

2 cups brown sugar 1 tablespoon lemon extract 
2 cups chopped raisins 1 tablespoon Royal baking 
4 cups Henkel's flour powder 

1 tablespoon molasses 1 egg 

4 teaspoons soda Citron, lemon, orange peel if 

1 tablespoon cinnamon desired 

Mrs. H. C. LaPlamboy. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

1 cup sugar powder 

1 tablespoon butter 2 cups Henkel's flour 

1 cup apple sauce 1 cup raisins 

5^ teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon Royal baking 1 teaspoon cloves 

Stir sauce and soda thoroughly. Put baking powder in 
flour. Bake slowly about ^ hour. Mrs. J, K. Stock. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup raisins 

1 cup molasses 2>^ cups sifted Henkel's 
^2 cup shortening flour 

1 egg 2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup apple sauce 2 teaspoons hot water 

1 pinch salt 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
A little nutmeg 

Put soda in hot water. Mrs. Dean 

Mrs. James Bunting 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

1 cup sugar % cup cocoanut milk 

Butter size of egg 1^)4 cups Henkel's flour 

3 yolks of eggs 3 even teaspoons Royal 

% cup milk baking powder 

Cream, sugar and butter, add yolks of eggs, then milk 
and flour alternately. Fold in beaten whites of 2 eggs. 
Vanilla. 

FROSTING: Boil 1 cun sugar and J4 cup Avater until it 
strings ; add to well-beaten white of 1 egg. Grate fresh cocoa- 
nut and cover cake. Mrs. A. L. Jones. 

KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE saves the cost, time and bother 
of squeezing lemons. 



CAKES 123 

// you haven't found what you wanted, 

Among the cakes printed before, 

JVe submit, for your careful perusal. 

Some very unusual ones, — more. 

— M. K C. 
EASTER LILY CAKE. 

1 cup milk powder 

1 cup Hcnkel's flour 1 pinch salt 

1 cup sugar Whites of 2 eggs. 

3 teaspoons Royal baking 

Heat milk to boiling point in double boiler Put flour in 
cake bowl and add sugar, baking powder, salt, — sift together 

4 times. Pour hot milk into dry ingredients and stir smooth. 
Fold in beaten whites of eggs. 

ICING: 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 
tablespoon cocoa, 1 tablespoon flour. Mix with cold coffee, 
add vanilla. Mrs, W. J. Blakely. 

QUAKER CAKE. 

Yz cup butter >2 cup chopped walnut 

1 cup sugar meats 

1 cup sour milk Yz teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon allspice 

1 cup chopped raisins 2 cups Henkel's flour 

Mrs. A. W. Brewster. 

STRAWBERRY CAKE. 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon sour milk 

y2 cup butter (scant) 2 eggs 

1 cup canned strawberries IJ/^ cups Henkel's flour 

1 teaspoon soda 

Put soda in sour milk; bake in layers; put together with 
caramel frosting. Mrs. F. N. Varncy. 

TILDEN CAKE. 

1 cup butter 4 eggs 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons Royal baking 
1 cup milk powder 

3 cups Henkel's flour 2 teaspoons lemon extract 



3/2 cup cornstarch 



Mrs. Geo. McMahon. 



KNOX GELATINE is economical — FOUR PINTS in each package. 



124 CAKES 

LAYER CAKE. 

1 egg Butter size of egg 

1 cup sugar Ij^ cups Henkel's flour, 

^2 teaspoon vanilla unsifted 

1 pinch salt 1 small teaspoon Royal bak- 

y2 cup cold water ;ng powder 

Put all together and stir 5 minutes or more. 

Mrs. Norman. 

THREE LAYER CAKE. 

2 cups powdered sugar 3 cups Henkel's flour 

^2 cup butter 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

3 eggs powder 
1 cup milk 

Mrs. J. E. Warren. 

DELICIOUS LAYER CAKE. 

Yz cup butter flour 

lyi cups sugar 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

3 eggs powder 

1 scant cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2y2 cups Henkel's Velvet 
Mix dry ingredients ; cream butter and sugar ; add beaten 
eggs and vanilla; then alternately milk and flour. Beat well; 
bake in quick oven in 3 layers. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

HERMIT CAKE. 

1 cup brown sugar 2 eggs 

^ cup butter 2 teaspoons vanilla 

2^ cups Henkel's flour 1 lb. dates 

2 teaspoons lemon 1 lb. walnut meats 

1 teaspoon soda 5c worth mixed peel 

Dissolve soda in a little hot water. 

Mrs. A. W. Brewster. 

TWO EGG CAKE. 

2 cups Henkel's flour 5 tablespoons butter 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons Royal baking Salt 

powder 
Sift dry ingredients together; break eggs in a cup and 
fill with water. Mrs. J. J. Claus. 

For Dainty Delicious Desserts use KNOX GELATINE. 



CAKES 125 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

1 cup butter ly^ cups raisins 

<}^ cups sugar 1^ cups currants 

4 eggs 1 small teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon Royal baking 1 cup milk 

powder 1 small teaspoon nutmeg 

1 quart Henkel's flour 

Miss A. Mitchell. 
ORANGE CAKE. 

3 eggs powder 

1 pinch salt . 4 tablespoons milk 

1 cup sugar 1^ cups Henkel's flour 

1 teaspoon Royal baking 

Filling. 
Grate 1 whole orange ; add yolk of 1 Qgg, 1 teaspoon corn- 
starch, scant 1^ cups sugar, 1 cup boiling water. Cook slow- 
ly. When cool, spread between layers. Put boiled frosting in 
top of cake and place sections of orange around edge while 
frosting is soft. Takes 3 oranges. 

Mrs. F. N. Varney. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

1 cup sifted Henkel's y^ orange, ju'ce and grated 

floyr rind 

1 cup sugar 1 level teaspoon Royal 

4 eggs baking powder 
4 tablespoons cold water 

To the beaten yolks add sugar, next orange juice and 
rind, then water. Sift flour 4 times, add baking powder. Fold 
in beaten whites. Moderate oven 45 minutes in tube tin. 

Mrs. E. S. Stringer. 

FRENCH CREAM CAKE. 

3 eggs lJ/2 cups Henkel's flour 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon Royal baking 

2 tablespoons cold water powder 

Beat eggs and sugar together; add water; then flour and 
baking powder. Bake in 2 tins and split while hot. 

Cream Filling. 
1 pint fresh milk 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

^ cup sugar 1 egg 

Heat milk in double boiler ; mix sugar and cornstarch 
with little of cold milk; pour into hot milk and cool< until 
th-'ck. Add 1 egg, well beaten, and piece of butter size of ^gg. 
Do not let boil after tgg and butter are added as it may curdle. 
Flavor to taste. Mrs. Lester. 



126 CAKES 

CREAM CAKE. 

1 cup butter 1 eggs 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

3 cups Henkel's flour J cup cream or sour milk 

Dissolve soda in vinegar. Bake in shallow^ tin and cut 
in squares, Helen Blashill. 

LORD BALTIMORE CAKE. 

l^ cup butter, creamed 3 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

Yolks of 8 eggs ^ cup milk 

If^ cups Henkel's bread flour 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Add sugar to creamed butter gradually while beating. 
Beat eggs thick. Put baking powder in flour and add altern- 
ately with milk. Beat 2 minutes. Bake in 3 seven inch 
square tins. Moderate oven. 

Filling. 

To a boiled icing add: ^ cup powdered macaroons, 54 
cup blanched and chopped almonds, % cup chopped pecans, 
13 candied cherries, cut; 2 teaspoons lemon juice, 13^ tea- 
spoons vanilla, 1 teaspoon orange extract. Cover top and 
sides with plain boiled icing and garnish with candied cher- 
ries. Mrs. M. C. Yerkes. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

1 cup butter Whites of 6 eggs 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons Royal baking 
3y^ cups Henkel's flour powder 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon rose water 

Cream butter, add sugar, sift flour and baking powder 
and add alternately with milk. Flavor and last fold in well 
beaten whites of eggs. 

Filling. 

3 cups sugar 1 cup raisins, cut 
1 cup boiling water 1 cup pecans, cut 
Whites of 3 eggs 5 figs cut in strips 

Boil sugar and water to soft ball stage and pour over 
well beaten whites. Add other ingredients. 

Mrs. M. C. Yerkes. 

Ask your grocer for KNOX GELATINE— take no other. 



CAKES 127 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

Same as above, except use water instead of milk. 

Icing. 
2 cups sugar ^ lb. figs 

Whites of 3 eggs y^ lb. nut meats 

Yz lb. raisins 

Add enough water to sugar to boil to syrup ; pour very 
slowly into beaten whites; then add other ingredients which 
have been chopped together. Mrs, Palmer Richards. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Ya cup butter 3 cups Henkel's flour 

3 cups sugar ly^ teaspoons Royal baking 

1 cup milk powder 

1 cup cornstarch Whites of 7 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar; add cornstarch, flour and bak- 
mg powder mixed together, alternately with the milk. Add 
whites of eggs, flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Potter. 

MADEIRA CAKE. 

1 cup butter powder 

1 cup sugar ^y cups Henkel's flour 

2 eggs y lb. currants, floured 

y2 cup milk 14 lb. citron and lemon peel 

A few candied cherries Lemon flavoring 
2 teaspoons Royal baking 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, milk, flour 
and baking powder and other ingredients. Slow oven, 45 
"^i""tes. Mrs. James Kermath.' 

Be quick, he quick! there's no time to waste; 
I must have a cake, and have it in haste. 

— M. K. C. 
LIGHTNING CAKE. 

1 cup sugar 1 heaping teaspoon Royal 
1>4 scant cups Henkers flour baking powder 

2 eggs y cup butter 

Heat butter slowly, into this, when cool, put the eggs 
and fill cup with milk. Put sugar, flour and baking powder 
in dish and add contents of cup ; stir about 5 minutes. Flavor 
to taste. 

Mrs. Bennett, 

Mrs. Fann'e Ward Lester. 



128 CAKES 

Filling for Layers. 
1 cup powdered sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon vanilla 3 teaspoons cocoa 

2 tablespoons strong coffee 

Cream together sugar, butter and cocoa ; add coffee and 
vanilla. Mrs. Chas. Pelton. 

QUICK CAKE. 
1^ Clips brown sugar pieces 

Yz cup soft butter ^ cup milk 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 teaspoon each cinnamon, powder 

allspice and nutmeg ly^ cups Henkel's flour 

% lb. dates cut in small 

Put all in bowl, mix with 1 stirring. Bake in 2 lavers. 

Mrs. G. E. McKea'n. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Yz cup butter 1 pint Henkel's flour 

Y2 pint water 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

Whites of five eggs powder 

IY2 cups sugar 

Measure and mix baking powder and flour and sift. 
Cream butter and sugar, add water and flour alternately, 
flavor with lemon and vanilla. Beat thoroughly for at least 
5 minutes ; then fold in the well beaten whites of eggs. Bake 
in 3 layers or in a loaf. Mrs. John Bishop. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

4 eggs IY2 teaspoons Royal baking 

2 cups sugar powder 
Yt. cup water Flavor 

2^ cups Henkel's flour 

Beat eggs and sugar well, add cold water, then flrfur and 
baking powder together. Bake in layers. 

Mrs. Emily Moore. 
WHITE CAKE. 
13^ cups Henkel's flour 1 large teaspoon Royal 

1 cup sugar baking powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla Whites of 2 eggs 

Mix flour, sugar, vanilla and baking powder. Put whites 
of eggs in cup and fill cup so it is Y2 full of butter and the 
remaining J4 cup with milk. Stir all together for 5 minutes. 
Bake in deep round dish. White frosting. 

Mrs. Reed. 

Where recipes call for Gelatine use KNOX GELATINE. 



CAKES 129 

PRINCE ALBERT CAKE. 

Yi cup butter 34 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Y^ cup sour milk 1 cup raisins 

1 heaping cup Henkel's ^ teaspoon soda 

fl(>-.n- ^ eggs 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Cream butter and sugar ; break eggs in without beating ; 
stir well, then put in spices, stirring all the time; then sour 
milk. Raisins last, same must be cooked a short time before 
putting in. Put soda in flour. Makes 2 layers. 

Mrs. C. M. Atkinson. 

PRINCE OF WALES CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 cup sour milk 

Y2 cup lard and butter Y2 teaspoon soda 

1 small teaspoon salt 1 cup raisins 

Y2 teaspoon cloves 1 cup nut meats 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons molasses ^ 

FROSTING: 1 cup confectioner's sugar, enough butter 
to mix in. Raisins and nut meats chopped and put with 
sugar. Mrs. Robert Kerr. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

lj/2 cups sugar Whites of 4 eggs 

Yi cup butter 1^^ teaspoons Royal baking 

Ya cup milk powder 

2 cups Henkel's flour 1 cup nut meats 

Mrs. Samuel Bradt. 

CUP CAKES. 

2 eggs Henkel's flour 

1 cup sugar Butter size of ^%% 

Ya cup milk 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

Yz teaspoon salt powder 

2 level cups unsifted Flavoring 

Beat whites and yolks separately ; add sugar and butter 
to yolks and beat until creamy ; add salt, milk and flavoring. 
Sift flour and baking powder together 3 times; add flour 
and whites of eggs alternately, folding in lightly. Drop table- 
spoonfuls into well buttered gem tins and bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. F. L. Buell. 



KNOX GELATINE makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly. 



130 CAKES 

SPICE CUP CAKES. 

2 eg^gs 1 teaspoon allspice 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda, in coffee 

1 cup boiling" coffee 1 cup molasses 

3 cups Henkel's flour 1 cup butter and lard 
1 teaspoon Royal baking 1' teaspoon cloves 

powder 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Mrs. Fred Coulson, 

CHOCOLATE CUP CAKES. 

1 cup Henkel's Velvet flour Milk 

i cup sugar 1 square chocolate 

1 heaping teaspoon Royal 34 cvip butter 

baking powder Y^ teaspoon vanilla 

2 eggs 

Sift dry ingredients together. Beat eggs, put in a cup 
and fill with milk ; add to dry ingredients. Melt chocolate 
and butter and add to above. Mrs. J. D. Wiley. 

PORK CAKE. 

1 lb. chopped salt pork 1 cup boiling coffee 

1 lb. brown sugar 8 cups Henkel's flour 

1 lb. raisins 1 teaspoon soda 

1 lb. currants 1 teaspoon each cloves, cin- 
Yz lb. citron namon, allspice 

2 cups molasses 

Makes two large cakes. Mrs. M. A. Cowles. 

LOAF CAKE. 

1 cup sugar 2 scant cups Henkel's flour 
Yz cup butter Y^ cup chopped nut meats 

3 eggs beaten separately 1 orange rind grated 
Y2 cup milk Y^ cup chopped raisins 

Airs. C. A. Bachmann. 

SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

43/2 cups Henkel's flour 1 cup blanched almonds 

6 eggs (beaten) 2 tablespoons strained 

1/^ cups butter honey 

Y2 cup milk 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

2 cups sugar powder 

2 cups raisins Season with mace or nutmeg 

2 cups figs (cut fine) 

Beat sugar and butter, add eggs, honey, milk, sifted 
flour and baking powder. Add fruit last. Rub raisins and 
figs with flour before mix'ng with cake. Bake slowly 1 hour. 

Mrs. John Carnegie Wills, 
Mrs. William A. Snyder. 



CAKES 131 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

y2 cup butter Yz cup niilk 

YYz cup sugar 2 cups Jlcnkel's flour 

3 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls Royal bak'ng 

2 squares Baker's chocolate powder 

3 tablespoons boiling milk Flavor with Vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar. Beat in yolks of eggs, add 
chocolate melted in boiling milk. Now add milk and flour 
alternately. Add beaten ^^^ whites. 

Dorothy E. Chandler. 

MOCHA CAKE. 

5 ^g'g yolks (beaten well) 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

\y2 cups Henkel's flour 2 teaspoons mocha extract 

Mix in order given, fold in beaten whites of eggs. For 
filling use sweetened whipped cream with 2 teaspoons mocha. 

Mrs. John Kalbfleish. 



KNOX GELATINE is the one dessert for all appetites. 



132 CAKES 

HINTS ON CAKE MAKING. 

Do not have your oven too hot when you put your cake 
in. 

Keep the iire low until the cake raises, then increase the 
heat and bake. 

If the cake comes up high in the center, it is because 
the oven was too hot at first. 

It does not hurt to stir the batter both ways. 

If a cake is coarse grained it is usually caused by the 
lack of creaming butter and sugar sufficiently. This is very 
important. 

When the butter is hard, if you warm part of the sugar 
before adding to the butter, it will be much easier creamed. 
Add your sugar slowly, do not put it all in at once. When it 
creams to6 slowly a tablespoon of warm water helps it very 
much. 

In making a loaf cake it is better to put the whites of 
eggs in before the flour; in a layer cake, after. 

Any cake with shortening in it can be beaten after the 
flour and baking powder are added. 

In a sponge cake, after the flour is in, the less you stir 
it, the better. 

Many fail in making angel cake because they are not 
careful enough when the flour is added. It should be folded 
in. Stirring or beating after it is added breaks the air bub- 
bles ; thins the batter and makes the cake tough and heavy. 
The flour should he sifted 5 times before measuring. Use 
pastry flour. 

When beating the whites of eggs with a fork, much 
better results will be obtained if an oval dish is used instead 
of a round one. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 
i saltspoons equal 1 teaspoon 



3 teaspoons 

i teaspoons dry material 

1 level tablespoon 

2 gills 

i cups 

4 cups flour 

2 cups solid butter 

2 cups granulated sugar 

2J^ cups powdered sugar 

10 average sized eggs 

Butter the size of an egg means 2 tablespoons or 3 ounces. 
A tablespoon of melted butter is measured after melting. 

A tablespoon of butter, melted, is measured before melting. 



1 tablespoon 
>4 cup 
^ ounce 

1 cup 

1 pint 

1 quart or 1 pound 

1 pound 

1 pound 

1 pound 

1 pound 



iFtUtnga ixnb iFniattnga 

No matter what the rest is costing. 
Who doesn't cat cake for the frosting? 

— M. K. C. 

SOUR CREAM FROSTING. 

1 cup sugar 1 cup sour cream 

1 cup chopped nuts 

Cook until it threads ; beat until a little cool and spread 
quickly. Mrs. M. B. Moon. 

SOUR CREAM FROSTING. 
1 cup sugar ^ cup chopped nut meats 

Yz cup sour cream Lump of butter 

Boil until thick enough to spread. 

Mrs. E. B. Pentz. 
COCOA FROSTING. 

1 cup 4X sugar 2 level tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons cocoa 3 tablespoons hot coffee 
Flavoring 

Stir well. This frosting will not harden. 

Mrs. C. E. Mutschel. 
COCOA ICING. 

1 tablespoon butter (melted)2 cups powdered sugar 

2 tablespoons Baker's cocoa 3 tablespoons hot coffee 
Vanilla 

Mix melted butter, cocoa and hot coff'ee, add sugar and 
vanilla. Add more coffee if needed to spread well. 

Mrs. G. McKean. 
DELICIOUS CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 
lA cake chocolate (unsweet- ^A pint sour whip])ing 
cned) cream 

1 large cup sugar 

Cook on a very slow fire for five minutes, then beat till 
cool enough to spread. If desired, now add 1 cup chopped 
pineapple which is absolutely free from juice. 

Mrs. Harvey Stofflett. 

Ann Arl)(>r, Mich. 

CREAM AND MARSHMALLOW FILLING. 

One-half pint cream, whipped stiff; 1 cup marshmallows, 
cut rather small ; lA cup chopped walnut meats. 

Spread thickly between and on top of 2 layer cake. 

Mrs. Thomas. 



34 






George p. Warrick 




FUNERAL DIRECTOR 




Day and Night Service 




OFFICE AND CHAPEL 




7208 GRATIOT AVFNUE telephone 




AT EAST GRAND BOULEVARD LINCOLN 252 



Furs Made 
to order 

Are a specialty 
with us. Also re- 
modeling and re- 
pairing. Estimates 
cheerfully given. 
Many canvas 
models to select 
from. Special Prices. 

DETROIT'S 
LEADING 
FURRIERS 

'^^Hou .s e H c o rq c 








GLENDALE 7707 








George W. 


Davis 








Florist 






Cor. 


Warren 


8c Lincoln 


DETROT. 


MICH. 



FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 135 

BUTTER ICING, 

6 tablespoons powdered 1 tablespoon milk or boiling 

sugar water 

1 tablespoon butter 

Mix above together, flavor with vanilla. May be varied 
with chopped nut meats, raisins or cocoa. 

Mrs. A. W. Brewster. 

CREAM ICING. 

2 cups sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 

y^ cup milk Vanilla 

Boil sugar and milk slowly, 4 minutes. Remove from 
fire, add nuts and beat until creamy. 

Mrs. J. K. Warren. 

LEMON JELLY FOR FILLING. 

1 cup sugar Small lump of butter 

Juice and grated rind 1 1 egg 

lemon 

Heat butter, sugar and lemon, add beaten egg. Boil 3 
minutes. Mrs. J. E. Warren. 

MOCHA FROSTING. 

1/2 cup butter 2 teaspoons cocoa 

2 cups powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons cold cofTee 

Mix after melting butter and spread. 

Mrs. M. Yerkes. 

QUICK ICING. 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

3 tablespoons orange juice 

Add powdered sugar until right consistency. 

Mrs. M. Yerkes. 

CARAMEL FOR FLAVORING. 

Put any amount of sugar desired in a saucepan ; stir over 
fire until sugar dissolves and turns brown. Now add hot 
water equal in quantity to the sugar ; this hardens the sugar, 
but let the mixture simmer about 15 minutes and the sugar 
dissolve again and a clear syrup is formed. If the syrup be 
desired thick for flavoring a mousse or seasofiing sauces, it 
may be allowed to simmer 3^2 an hour or more. Be careful 
that the hot mixture does not spatter on hands when water is 
added. Mrs. C. J. Chandler. 



QlnntoB, 3vwh (Eakt^B, ^myrr SiTa& 



We mav try as hard as ever zve can. 
We'll never forget the ginger bread man; 
Of cookies and hermits zve' II sing in our lays. 
Hozv happv they made us in childhood days. 

—M] K. C. 



SUGAR COOKIES. 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vinegar 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon Royal baking 
5 tablespoons milk powder 

1 cup butter 1 pinch salt 

^ teaspoon soda 

Mix in Henkel's flour enough to drop from spoon. 

Mrs. H. C. Leech. 



2 eggs 
1^2 cups sugar 
1 cup butter 



SUGAR COOKIES. 



4 cups Henkel's flour 
1 small teaspoon soda 
Nutmeg 

Mrs. Samuel S. Bradt. 



SUGAR COOKIES. 

2 eggs Pinch of salt 

2 cups sugar 1 cup lard 

1 cup sour milk Ground spices to taste 

^2 teaspoonful soda Henkel's flour to roll 

Mix soft, bake brown and sprinkle sugar on top. 

Mrs. Cooper. 



COOKIES. 

1 teaspoon baking soda 
Small cup sour milk or 
cream 



2 eggs 

2 cups butter 

2 cups brown sugar 

Vanilla 

Add enough Henkel's flour to handle (thin). 

Mrs Stephens. 



KNOX GELATINE solves the problem of "What to have for 

dessert?" 



COOKIES, FRIED CAKES, ETC. 137 



EGG COOKIES. 

2 cups brown sugar 1 heaping teaspoon Royal 

A "^"P, '' hnkiug powder 

•f *^S8^ Nutmeg or vanilla iia\or 

2 tablespoons of m Ik Ilenkel's flour enough to 

1 even teaspoon soda roll thick 

Mrs. Helena Blashill. 

WHITE COOKIES. 

.1 cup granulated sugar. y^ cup sour milk 

2 yolks of eggs 1/, teaspoon soda 

/3 cup butter About 3 cups Henkel's flour 

J teaspoon Royal bakmg Flavor 
powder 

Cream sugar and butter; add yolks of eggs; stir well • 
dissolve soda in sour mlk and add; then add flour with bak- 
ing powder. Roll out medium thick, sprinkle with sugar and 
^^^^- Mrs. McKean. 

COOKIES. 
1 cup white sugar 1 cup sour cream 

1 cup brown sugar 3 or 4 eggs 

1 cup shortening (butter 1 teaspoon Royal bakino- 

preferred) powder 

1 teaspoon soda dissolved 1 teaspoon salt 
in cream 
Enough Henkel's flour to roll soft. 

Mrs. H. J. Sutton. 
SUGAR COOKIES. 
1 cup sugar i^ cup butter 

^ ^^^^ ^ 4 tal:lcs]K)ons milk 

^ teaspoons Royal bak ng Grated orange peel 
powder 

Henkel's flour enough to roll nicely. Chopped nuts or 
seeds may be added and flavoring, as desired. 

Mrs. Mae Thomson. 
WHITE COOKIES. 
Cream 3 cups sugar with 1 teaspoon vanilla 
\ ";; '^""er 5 teaspoons Royal baking 

^^^^ powder 

1 coffee cup milk Henkel's flour enough to 

1 ""tmeg n,ake real soft don'-h 

Mrs. S. Guillox. 



KNOX GELATINE is the one dessert for all appetites. 



138 COOKIES, FRIED CAKES, ETC. 

CARAWAY COOKIES. 

Yz cup butter \ i quart Henkel's flour 

Yz cup lard \ Cream Pinch of salt 

3 eggs I together 2 teaspoons Royal bak ng 

1 cup sugar ) powder 
}i cup water Sift together 

2 teaspoons caraway seed 

1 small teaspoon soda dissolved in water 

Bake in moderate oven. Mrs. W. E. Cowen. 

FILLED COOKIES. 

1 cup sugar 33^2 cups Henkel's flour 

Y cup butter and lard 2 teaspoons cream tartar 

(mixed) 1 teaspoon soda 

1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Y cup sweet milk 

Pat thin. Put the cookies in pan, then a teaspoon of 
the following filling on each. Place another cookie on top. 

Filling. 

1 cup chopped raisins Y cup water 

Y cup sugar 1 teaspoon Henkel's flour 

Cook until thick. Mrs. Mae Thomson. 

HERMITS. 

lY cups sugar 1 cup nuts 

1 scant cup butter 1 cup raisins 

Y cup milk 1 teaspoon Royal baking 

2 eggs powder 

1 teaspoon all kinds of spice ^ teaspoon soda 

Mix in order. Make stifif enough to drop. Bake in a 
moderate oven. Mrs. Keightley. 

HERMITS. 

2 cups brown sugar Y teaspoon cloves 
% cup half each butter and 1 teaspoon vanilla 

lard 1 teaspoon soda 

2 eggs 1 cup chopped raisins 

5 tablespoons sour milk Y cup chopped walnuts 
Yz teaspoon cinnamon 

Add enough Henkel's flour to drop from spoon and not to 
spread too much when baked. Mrs. B. A. Scott. 



DESSERTS can be made in a short time with KNOX GELATINE. 



COOKIES, FRIED CAKES, ETC. 139 

ORANGE COOKIES— CRISP. 

Yz cup butter ^ cup orange juice 

1 cup sugar 3 cups Henkel's flour 

1 orange rind grated 2 teaspoons Royal I)aking 

1 c^g^ (beaten light) i;o\vder 

Mix in order given, more flour may be required to roll. 
For crisp cookie use only ^4 cup orange juice. 

Mrs. R. J. Grier. 

RAISIN GINGER COOKIES. 

1 cup butter 1 tablespoon ginger (level) 

.1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 scant cup molases (level) 

1 cup chopped raisins 

Put all on the stove and warm, then add 1 beaten ^g%. 
1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 2 tablespoons sour milk or 
water. Pinch salt, 1 teaspoon Royal baking powder, 4 cups 
Henkel's flour. Roll thin, bake in quick (:»ven. 

Mrs. R. J. Grier. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

1 large cup light brown water 

sugar 1 teaspoon Royal baking 
Yl cup shortening (lard and powder 

butter) Pinch salt 

1 ^%g Flavoring 

V2 teaspoon soda dissolved Henkel's flour to roll out 
in 3 large tablespoons medium 

Put raisin in center of each cookie and sprinkle with 
sugar before baking. Mrs. Webster Kay. 

CONDES. 

Whites 2 eggs beaten stiff y^ cup confectioners sugar 
1 cup blanched almonds (chopped) 
Spread on pie crust 

Mrs. G. F. Bean. 

NUT CRISPS. 

25^ cups rolled oats 8 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

1 large tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Yz teaspoon salt 

Let stand one hour before baking, then drop from tea- 
spoon. Give plenty of room to spread. 

Mrs. Charles Rudd. 



140 COOKIES, F RIED CAKES, ETC. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

2 cups brown sugar 5 large tablespoons water 

2 eggs Yi lb. raisins (chopped) 

1 scant cup shortening Spices of all kinds 

2 teaspoons soda Flour to thicken 

Mrs. R, E. Tripp. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

\y2 cups sugar 1 cup raisins, seeded 
1 cup butter (chopoed) 

Work to a cream 1 cup currants 

3^2 cup molasses 1 teaspoon allspice 

3 eggs well beaten 1 teaspoon soda dissolved 
Henkel's flour to roll in a little cold water 

Mrs E. B Pentz. 

FRUIT JUMBLES. 

3 eggs walnuts 

1 cup brown sugar Yz cup milk 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda dissolved 

1 teaspoon vanilla in hot water 

1 lb. dates and ^4 lb. 

Henkel's flour to make stiff enough to drop from tea- 
spoon. Mrs. A. W. Brewster. 

NUT COOKIES. 

1 cup Crisco 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups sugar 4 tablespoons sour milk, in 

2 eggs which dissolve 
2^^ cups rolled oat= 1 teaspoon soda 
^Yt. cups Henkel's flour 

Mix well, and let stand over night In the morning 
roll out and bake. Mrs. Watson. 

WALNUT WAFERS. 

1 cup walnut meats 2 eggs 

(slightly broken, not Henkel's flour 

chopped) Salt 

Y2 pint brown sugar 1 teaspoon Royal baking 

3 rounding tablespoons powder 

Mix sugar, eggs and salt together, then add flour and 
baking powder, adding meats last. Spread in buttered drip- 
ping pan as thin as possible. Bake quickly, light brown ; 
when done and while hot, cut in squares. Do not use any 
paper in the tin. Mrs. Ira Jerome. 



COOKIES, FRIED CAKES, ETC. 



141 



COCOANUT DROPS. 

Whites of 3 eggs 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 cups cocoanut Pinch of salt 

Beat the whites of eggs well, add sugar, stir this over the 
steam of kettle until it sticks to sides of platter. Then add 
the rest; drop on buttered tin and bake in quick oven just 



a lisfht brown. 



Mrs. C. Pelton. 



DATE STRIPS. 



3 eggs well beaten 

1 large cup sugar 

Salt 

1 cup walnut meats 

chopped tine 
1 teaspoon vanilla 

Bake in dripping pan. 
in powdered sugar. 



2 level teaspoons Royal 

baking powder 
1 large cup Henkel's flour 
1 cup dates, cut very 

fine 

Cut in strips 1x1 inches. Roll 
Arline Chase. 



DATE COOKIES. 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teas])oon soda, dissolved in 

1 cup each butter and lard 1 cup sour cream or butter- 



4 cups Henkel's flour 
i cups rolled oats 



milk 

Filling. 

y^ cup l)rown sugar 



1 lb. dates 
1 cup water 

Boil together until jellied for filling. 

Roll cookies rather thin and spread dates on half of 
what is rolled, doubling other half over to make a filling of 
dates in center. Cut in any shape with a sharp knife. This 
makes a large batch. Mrs. A. W. Brewster. 

DATE COOKIES. 



1 
1 

1 


cup sugar 2 
cup butter 2 
cup sour milk 
teaspoon soda 

Filling for 


cups Henkel's flour 
cups rolled oats, oatmeal 
or Graham 

Cookies. 


1 


lb. dates 1 


cup hot water 


1 


cup sugar 
Boil eight minutes. When 


cold spread between cookies. 
Mrs. Nettie Davis. 



KNOX GELATINE makes dainty desserts for dainty people. 



142 COOKIES, FRIED CAKES, ETC. 

DROP COOKIES. 

Yz cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup sour or buttermilk Little nutmeg and cin- 
1 ^^^ namon 

y2 cup lard Cup chopped walnut meats 

Yz cup raisins 

Henkel's flour enough to drop on tin. 

Mrs. Chas. W. Sweet. 

SOUR CREAM DROP COOKIES. 

lYi cups brown sugar 2 cups Henkel's flour 

Yt. cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Y2 cup (scant) sour cream 1 cup (scant) broken nut 

1 teaspoon soda meats 

2 eggs 

Drop teaspoonful on buttered pan, giving room to spread. 

Mrs. C. F. Shirts. 

OATMEAL COOKIEvS. 

1>4 cups butter 2 cups Henkel's flour 

Y2 cup milk 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

2 cups oatmeal powder 
1 cup sugar 

Filling. 
1 lb. dates chopped fine ^ cup sugar 

Yi cup water 

Boil filling until smooth. These cookies are cut with 
small cutter and put together with filling, when cold. 

Mrs. M. B. Moon. 

ROCK COOKIES 

1^ cups of sugar J/2 lb. English walnut meats 

Yi cup butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3 cups Henkel's flour Y^ teaspoon allspice 

(scant) 1 teaspoon soda dissolved 

3 eggs in 1 tablespoon hot water 

1 lb. dates or raisins 

Cut dates the size of ra'sins, have nuts in large pieces. 
Drop on buttered tins and bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. A. L. Jones. 

KNOX GELATINE improves soups and gravies. 



143 



Compliments 
of 

A Friend 



144 COOKIES, FRIED CAKES, ETC. 

HERMITS. 

2 cups sugar 1 cup butter 

3 eggs 4 cups Henkel's flour 
1 cup raisins 1 teaspoon clove? 

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3 tablespoons milk Nuts, if desired. 

Soda d'ssolved in the milk. Drop from spoon. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

1 cup molasses 1 of cinnamon 

y2 cup sugar 3 teaspoons soda dissolved 
V2 cup lard or drippings in Yz cup water 

2 teaspoons ginger or 1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon ginger and 

Put sugar, salt and spices in mixing bowl, stir together. 
Add molasses and shorten'ng and lastly the soda and water. 
Mix in Henkel's flour enough to knead quite stifl. Roll thin 
and bake in moderate oven. Mrs. F. P. Hunt. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

1 cup molasses 'I teaspoons ginger 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons soda in 

1 cup lard 1 cup hot water 

2 eggs well beaten 1 teaspoon Royal baking 
1 large teaspoon salt powder in the flour 

Use sufficient Henkel's 'flour to stiffen and roll out. 

Mrs. Corey. 
MOLASSES COOKIES. 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup sour m^'lk 

1 cup molasses 1 large teaspoon soda 

1 cup lard (good measure) 1 teaspoon ginger 
1 ^^^ — salt 

Henkel's flour to roll. Cut in long strips ; lay in pan ; 
crease with knife. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

SPICE DROP CAKES. 

1 cup (scant) sugar measure) 

Butter size of ^^^ Pinch each of nutmeg, 

Yz cup sour milk cloves and c'nnamon 
1 cup Henkel's flour — heap- y2 cup nuts, broken 

ing after sifted 1 ^Z% 
Yz teaspoon soda (good 

Bake in muffin pan. Mrs. C. F. Shirts. 



Send for free sample of KNOX GELATINE. 



COOKIES, FRIED CAKES, ETC. 145 

CHOCOLATE SNAPS. 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup shortening 1 cup grated chocolate 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream, sugar and butter. Add eggs beaten light. Next 
add chocolate, flavoring and lastly, soda; dissolve in 2 tea- 
spoons hot water. Add Henkel's flour to roll stiffs and roll 
very thin. 

Mrs. Billmeyer. 

DROP SPICE CAKE. 

13^ cups brown sugar 3^ teaspoon lemon or vanilla 

y^ cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

1 egg 234 cups Henkel's flour 

}i cup sour milk 

Nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves. Mrs. Billmeyer. 

SPECULACI: CHRISTMAS COOKIES. 

1 cup butter 3 eggs 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream, butter and sugar ; beat eggs thoroughly. Stir in 
enough sifted Henkel's flour to make soft dough ; roll very 
thin; cut into shapes and bake in medium oven. For the little 
ones use animal and bird cookie cutters. 

Mrs. Helen Chase Straesser. 

MARGUERITES. 

Whites of 2 eggs 1 cup of nut meats 

2 cups of pulverized sugar 

Beat together and spread on reception flakes and bake. 

Mrs. Warren. 
FRIED CAKES. 

1 cup sugar Little salt and nutmeg 

2 eggs ^ teaspoon soda 

2 teaspoons melted short- 1 heaping teaspoon Royal 

ening baking powder 

1 cup sour milk 

Beat the eggs thoroughly, add other ingredients with 
sifted Henkel's flour, enough to roll soft. Fry in deep fat. 
Avoid turning but once. Mrs. C. A. Britt. 

MACAROONS. 

Whites of 3 eggs beaten stift'ly, pinch salt. 1 cup cocoanut. 
1 scant cup granulated sugar, 2 cups Post Toasties. Mix dry 
ingredients, add eggs and heaping teaspoon almond extract. 
Drop and bake in slow oven. Mrs. Claude F. Stofiflett. 



146 COOKIES, FRIED CAKES, ETC. 

MARGUERITES. 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 tablespoons of shredded 

Yz cup of water cocoanut 

5 marshmallows J4 teaspoon of butter 

Whites of 2 eggs 1 cup walnut meats 

Boil sugar and water until syrup threads. Remove to 
the back of stove and add marshmallows cut in small pieces, 
then pour slowly on to the beaten eggs and add cocoanut, 
nuts and vanilla. Spread on saltines and bake until brown. 

Mrs. V. Stock. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. 

4 level cups Henkel's dered and ^ light brown) 

flour Yi, lb. butter 

1 level cup sugar (^ pow- 1 ^^^ (beaten) 

Mix flour and sugar together, then butter, wet with ^%Z^ 
knead together. Roll about )^ inch thick, cut in squares. 
Bake in rather hot oven. Mrs. Hopkins. 

GINGER BREAD. 

Yt. cup sugar 1 ^^g 

% cup butter 1 teaspoon ginger 

Y2 cup molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Y2 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon soda 

IY2 cups Henkel's flour 

Mrs. E. B. Pentz. 

QUICK GINGER CAKE. 

Break one egg in a teacup ; put 4 tablespoons melted but- 
ter in cup and fill with molasses ; pour into mixing bowl, fill 
teaCup half full hot water, Y^ teaspoon soda, pinch salt ; sea- 
son with cinnamon and use flour to consistency of pancake. 

Mrs. A. R. Kinney. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

Y2 cup sugar 1 cup molasses 

Y2 cup butter 1 teaspoon cloves 

23^ cups Henkel's flour 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 cup hot water 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 eggs 2 level teaspoons soda 

Dissolve soda in hot water; sift flour; add eggs the last 
thing. Bake in slow oven 40 minutes. 

Mrs. W. H. McClenahen. 

See that the name K-N-O-X is on each package of gelatine you buy. 



i 
COOKIES, FRIED CAKES, ETC. 147 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons soda 

y2 cup sugar 2^/^ cups tlenkel's flour 

^ cup lard ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

2 eggs, well beaten j/2 teaspoon cloves 
Add 1 cup boiling water 1 teaspoon ginger 

Bake slowly. Mrs. A. Kehoe. 

CHEAP GINGER BREAD. 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 tablespoon lard 1 teaspoon soda 

Add yz cup boiling water Salt 

to lard 1 pint lienkel's flour 

Bake in shallow pan. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

MUSKOKA GINGER BREAD. 

y2 cup brown sugar 2 level teaspoons soda in 

1 cup molasses 1 cup boiling water 

y cup butter 2^ cups Henkel's flour 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 1 teaspoon Royal 

ginger and cloves baking powder 

Add 2 well beaten eggs just before baking. 

Mrs. Cottingham. 

FRIED CAKES. 

1 cup sugar A little grated nutmeg 

1 cup milk Pinch salt 

3 eggs 2 heaping teaspoons Royal 

2 scant tablespoonsful baking powder 

melted butter 

Henkel's flour enough to stiffen. Have dough as soft 

as possible to handle. Mrs. W. F. Fuson. 

FRIED CAKES. 

1 cup sour milk 1 cup sugar 

1 teaspoon soda 2 eggs 

3 tablespoons melted lard 

Add enough flour to make a soft dough. Fry in deep 
fat. Mrs. M. A. Cowles. 

FRIED CAKES. 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons Royal baking 

2 eggs powder 

1 cup milk 4 tablespoons melted butter 

Nutmeg 

Henkel's flour enough to mix soft. Roll and fry in hot 
lard. Mrs. Arthur Montgomery. 

Mrs. M. Keightley. 



148 COOKIES, FRIED CAKES, ETC. 

SOUR MILK FRIED CAKES. 

2 cups sugar 1 level teaspoon soda 

2 cups sour milk 1 teaspoon Royal baking 

2 eggs powder 

3 tablespoons of melted lard 

Salt and seasoning to taste. Henkel's flour necessary 
to make a soft dough ; roll out, cut and fry in deep fat. 

Mrs. Rose Beveridge, 

POTATO DOUGHNUTS. 

2 potatoes 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup sugar ] teaspoon Royal baking 

2 eggs powder 
2 tablespoons butter Salt 

] cup sour milk 

Boil and mash the potatoes ; add sugar and eggs beaten 
separately. Melt butter and dissolve the soda in the sour 
m Ik. Add baking powder and flour to mix soft. These 
will not soak grease. Mrs. W. W. Hall. 

FRIED CAKES. 

4 potatoes, size of an egg Yz cup sweet milk 
Butter size of an egg Nutmeg to taste 

1 salt spoon of salt 2 heaping teaspoons Royal 

2 eggs baking powder 

1 cup sugar 3 cups Henkel's flour 

Boil potatoes ; mash and stir in the butter and salt. 
When cool stir in eggs, sugar, milk and nutmeg. Add 
flour and baking powder sifted together. Roll to the thick- 
ness of half an inch, cut and fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Cowan. 

POTATO FRIED CAKES. 

2 potatoes 4 teaspoons Royal baking 
Butter size of walnut powder 

2 eggs Nutmeg to taste 

1 cup of granulated sugar 1 teaspoon salt 
1 cup sweet milk 

Boil and mash potatoes to make one cup. Henkel's 
flour to make stiff enough to roll rather soft. Beat eggs, 
butter and sugar together. Add baking powder to flour, 
stir in milk. Put all together and add salt and nutmeg. 
Fry in deep hot lard. Mrs. Ludlow. 

Use KNOX GELATINE if you would be sure of results. 



COOKIES, FRIED CAKES, ETC. 149 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

3 cups milk 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar 1 yeast cake 

yo cup lard 1 nutmeg — salt 

Henkel's flour to make stiff batter. Raise over night. 
In morning add flour enough to roll. Let rise 30 minutes. 
Cut in oblong shape. Fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

GINGER BREAD. 

Put 2 tablespoons sugar into large cup and fill with 
molasses. Add ^ cup butter, softened ; 1 egg, 1 rounding 
teaspoon ginger, pinch salt, and stir well. 1 teaspoon soda 
added to 3^ cup sour milk, stir and add to first mixture. 
Add 2 cups Henkel's sifted flour, beat all together. Bake 
half hour, covering when nearly done to prevent burning. 
Use less butter if sour cream is used. 

Mrs, Louise Gregory. 



KNOX GELATINE is measured ready for use — each package is 
divided into two envelopes. 



150 



Dime Savings Bank 

RESOURSES OVER $42,000,000.00 

United States Depository — Member of Federal Reserve 



FOR WOMEN 

T7VERY day sees an increase in the 
breadth and scope of the activities 
of women in practically all lines of 
endeavor. ' 

The Dime Savings Bank makes 
a special feature of handling women's 
accounts, extending practical and help- 
ful co-operation in their business and 
financial transactions and providing 
special facilities for their benefit. 



MAIN OFFICE 

Dime Savings Bank Bldg. Griswold and Fort Sts. 

BRANCH OFFICES 

Woodward and Milwaukee Broadway and Witherell 

Jefferson and Beaufait Oakland and Holbrook 

Gratiot and Russell Grand River and Highfield 

Grand River and Lawton Harper and Frontenac 

Woodward and W^illis Mt. Elliott and Davison 

Michigan and Eighth Sherman and Chene 

Fourteenth and Ferry Dix and Artillery 
Military and Michigan 



Irfaft 



The snozvy loaf, the staff of life, 

Justly proud is the good housewife. 

Who bakes it well, and is always able 

To serve her ozvn bread on the family table. 

— M. K. C. 
¥ 

BREAD. 

One cake compressed yeast, 3 potatoes boiled, 1 quart 
lukewarm water. Soak yeast cake in 1 cup of lukewarm 
water, add to th's 1 tablespoon of lard, sugar and salt, then 
add enough Henkel's bread flour to make a stiff dough. 
Let rise over night, in morning make in loaves. Bake 1 
hour for large loaf, ^ hour for small loaves. 

Mrs. Fred G. Emmons. 

QUICK BREAD. 

Crumble 2 yeast cakes into 1 cup milk and 3 cups warm 
water, add 1 tablespoon lard, 1^ tablespoons sugar and 1 
teaspoon salt. Let stand until cool, then add 1 quart Hen- 
kel's bread flour and let rise 45 minutes. Then stir down 
and add another quart flour, let rise 1 hour and mold into 
two loaves and pan of biscuit. Let rise, bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

NUT BREAD. 

Into a dish put 3 cups Henkel's flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 
^ cup sugar, 4 even teaspoons Royal baking powder. In 
another dish beat 1 egg with 1^/2 cups milk, add this to dry 
ingredients, add 1 cup chopped nut meats. Stir well, put 
into pan and let stand 20 minutes. Bake slowly from 45 
minutes to one hour. Mrs. McKean. 

NUT BREAD. 

Three cups Henkel's flour. 3 teaspoons Royal baking 
powder, 1^^ cups sweet milk, ^ pound sliced walnut meats, 
^2 cup sugar. Let stand 20 minutes, bake. 

Mrs. W. F. Fuson. 

KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE saves the cost, time and bother 
of squeezing lemons. 



152 BREAD 

NUT BREAD. 

Four cups Henkel's flour, 5 teaspoons Royal baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon salt. Sift 3 times, add 1 cup granu- 
lated sugar and sift again, in a large pan or bowl bave 
1 egg beaten light, add 2 cups milk and beat again. Add 
flour gradually and beat well. Then add 1 large cup chopped 
nuts, let rise 10 minutes, then bake 4-") minutes in a slow oven. 

Marion F. Holt. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

% cup sugar 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

Large tablespoon butter powder 

1 egg 2 cups Henkel's flour sifted 
^ teaspoon salt ^ cup sweet milk 

Sprinkle with sugar, c nnamon and sugar, bake 20 
minutes. Mrs. S. Simmons. 

BRADLEY MUFFINS. 

Mix and sift lY^ cups entire wheat flour, -;4 cup white 
corn meal, 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 tea- 
spoon cream of tartar, salt. Add %. cup sour milk, 1 cup 
sweet milk. Beat thoroughly and turn into buttered muf- 
fin tins. Bake 20 m'nutes in hot oven. 

Mrs. G. F. Bean. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup brown or white 1^ cups Henkel's white 

sugar flour 

^ cup molasses 2^ cups Graham flour 

2 teaspoons salt y? package raisins 
2 cups sour milk 

Nut meats if wished. Mrs. Ida Ludlow. 

OATMEAL NUT RREAD. 

Two cups of rolled oats. Pour over this 1 quart boiling 
water, add 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon lard. Let 
stand till lukewarm, then add 1 teaspoon salt, 1 compressed 
yeast cake dissolved in lukewarm water. ^ cup New Or- 
leans molasses, ^ cup sugar, 2^^ quarts sifted Henkel's 
flour. Let stand over night, in morning fold in 1 heaping 
cup English walnut meats, put in bread tins, let rise till 
light. Bake 1 hour in moderate oven. 

Mrs. J. N. Burkhardt. 



BREAD 153 

HICKORY NUT BREAD. 

Four cups graham Hour, sifted, 4 teaspoons Royal baking 
powder, Yz cup granulated sugar, % eggs, 1 teaspoon salt, 
2 cups sweet milk, 1 cup hickory nut meats. Fill small 
round tins ^ full, let rise Yz hour. Bake till well done. 

Mrs. Bachmann. 

GRAHAM NUT BREAD. 

One cup Henkel's white flour, 3 cups graham flour, Yz 
teaspoon salt, ^ cup brown sugar, a little molasses, 1 ^z^, 

1 pint sour milk, 1 level teaspoon soda, 1 cup walnut meats. 
Bake 1 hour in slow oven. 

Mrs. C. W. Sweet. 

WHOLE WHEAT NUT BREAD. 

Four cups whole wheat flour, 2 cups milk, 1 cup Eng- 
lish walnut meats, \ cup sugar, 1 ^^^, 4 teaspoons Royal 
baking powder, salt to taste. Let stand J^ hour, bake 1 
hour. Mrs. B. H. Edwards. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Four cups whole wheat flour, 4 rounding teaspoons 
Royal baking powder, 1^ cups light brown sugar, 2 eggs, 

2 cups sweet milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup chopped nuts, 
1^ cups chopped raisins. Let rise ^ hour before baking. 
Bake slowly 1 hour. Mrs. C. E. Mutschel. 

PEANUT BREAD. 

Four level cups Henkel's flour, 4 level teaspoons Royal 
baking powder, Y^ cup sugar, 1^ cups sweet milk, 1 beaten 
t.^'g, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup chopped peanuts. Set in warm 
place 20 minutes, bake 1 hour in moderate oven. To be 
eaten without butter. 

Mrs. W. F. Monroe. 

NUT BREAD. 

Four cups Henkel's flour, 4 teaspoons Royal baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup sugar. Sift together and 
add 1 cup nut me^ts, 1 beaten ^^% and 1 cup milk. Mix 
and turn in tins Let rise 20 minutes, bake half hour. 

Mrs. Norma Scott. 

Mrs. W. C. Lawrence. 



Use KNOX GELATINE— the two quart package. 



154 BREAD 

NUT BREAD. 

One egg, Yz cup sugar (scant), 3^ teaspoon salt, 1 cup 
milk, 1 cup whole wheat flour, 1 cup Henkel's white flour, 2 
teaspoons Royal baking powder, Yz cup nut meats. Mix and 
let stand 15 minutes in a warm place. Bake slowly about 1 
hour. Mrs. Louise Gregory. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups graham flour, sifted, 2 cups Henkel's white 
flour, 1 scant tablespoon soda, Yz teaspoon salt. Sift all to- 
gether, add Yz cup S3'rup or molasses, 2 cups thick sour milk. 
Bake 1 hour in ^low oven. This makes delicious bread for 
sandwiches with raisins, nut or cheese filling. Fruit or nuts 
can be added to bread. Mrs. C. C. Curtis. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Four cups graham flour, 1 cup corn meal, 3 cups sweet 
milk, Yz cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda. Stir soda in mo- 
lasses, steam 2 hours. Mrs. H. Jessop. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups sour milk, 2 cups graham flour, 2 cups Hen- 
kel's white flour, Y^ cup molasses, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, Y^ cup raisins. Bake 1 hour slowly in greased 
coffee cans with covers ,on. Mrs. Coulson. 

SOUR MILK BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups Henkel's white flour, 2 cups graham flour, 
Yi. teaspoon salt, 1 level tablespoon soda. Mix thoroughly 
with dry ingredients. Add scant Y^ cup molasses, 1 pint 
sour milk. Bake in slow oven about 1 hour. 

Mrs. E. L Chase. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups milk or water, 1 cup molasses, 4 cups graham 
flour, sifted, or 3^4 cups graham flour and Y^ cup Henkel's 
white flour, 2J/2 rounded teaspoons Royal baking powder in 
flour, 1 teaspoon soda in milk, pinch of salt. Bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. W. C. Lawrence. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Tovo cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, pinch salt, ^ cup 
molasses, 4 cups graham flour. Mrs. H. L. Comin. 

Where recipes call for Gelatine use KNOX GELATINE. 



BREAD 155 



COFFEE CAKE. 



Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, ^ cup butter, 2 
or 3 eggs, 1 cup cold coffee, 1 teaspoon soda, 5 cups Hen- 
kel's flour, 1 cup dried currants, 1 cup raisins, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoon allspice. Mrs. C. P. Warren. 

SCONES. 

Three eggs, reserve yolk of 1, 1/2 cup sugar, 3^ cup 
milk, Yz cup butter, 4 cups Henkcl's flour, 3 teaspoons 
Royal baking powder, a little salt. Mix as lightly as pos- 
sible, roll and spread on yolk of ^^'g, cut triangular shape 
with a sharp knife and bake. Mrs. A. W. Brewster. 

BUNS. 
Dissolve 1 yeast cake and 1 tablespoon sugar in 1 cup 
luke warm milk, add 3 cups Henkel's flour and 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, Yi teaspoon salt. Knead lightly, keeping soft 
dough, cover and set aside in warm place to rise about 1]^ 
hours. Mold into small round buns, place in well greased 
pans about 1 inch apart. Let rise till light, bake about 20 
minutes. Mrs. C. J. Counzelman. 

BUNS. 

Dissolve 1 cake of yeast and 1 tablespoon of sugar in 1 
cup milk, scalded and cooled. Add 1^4 cups Henkel's flour to 
make sponge, beat till smooth, cover and let rise till light. 
Add 54 cup butter, 1-3 cup sugar creamed, 1 ^gg well beaten, 
54 teaspoon salt, 54 cup raisins floured, and flour enough to 
make soft dough. Turn on board, knead lightly and let rise 
again until double in bulk Shape into buns, place in well 
greased pans about 2 inches apart. Let rise till light. Glaze 
with ^gg diluted with water, bake 20 minutes. Juse before 
removing from oven, brush with sugar moistened with water. 
While hot. cover slightly with plain frosting. 

Mrs. Harry Ellison. 

HOT CROSS BUNS. 

M.ix 1 cup sugar with 5^ cup lard, add 1 cup milk, 1 cup 
lukewarm water with 1 yeast cake dissolved in it ,an enough 
Henkel's flour to make a soft batter Let rise over night. In 
morning, add another cup sugar, salt, 5^ teaspoon ground 
cinnamon and allspice, 1 cup currants and flour enough to 
knead, as for bread. Let rise again (about 5 hours), make into 
flat biscuit about 1 inch thick. Put in dripping pans and let 
rise again. Bake. Mrs. E. L Chase. 

Use KNOX GELATINE if you would be sure of results. 



156 BREAD 

SNICKERDOODLE. 

One half cup butter and lard mixed, 3^ cup sugar, 1 egg, 
1 cup water or milk, 2}'2 cups Henkel's flour, "2 teaspoons 
Royal baking powder, 1 cup raisins dredged with a little of 
the fiour. Stir till mixed. Will be very stiff, but spread it out 
in a shallow bread pan, sprinkle thickly over the top sugar, 
cinnamon and nuts. Bake about 20 minutes in oven about 
right for bread. Mrs. Schooley. 

COFFEE CAKES. 

Warm 3 cups milk, add 2 tablespoons each of lard and 
butter. When melted, cool and add Henkel's flour enough to 
make soft sponge. Add 1 yeast cake (Fleishman's) soaked in 
y2 cup water, beat thoroughly and let rise. Beat down, add 2 
eggs, 5 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, 1 cup raisins. Add flour so as to be able to spread with 
spoon in shallow, well greased tins. Strew sugar, cinnamon 
and lumps of butter over top, let rise and bake. 

Mrs. B. A. Scott. 
ROLLS. 

Take 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons salt, 2 quarts 
Henkel's flour, add 2 tablespoons lard, mix well, add 1 yeast 
cake dissolved in 1 cup hike warm water. Add enough hike 
warm water to knead well and more flour to handle easily. 
Let rise over night. In morning make into rolls and let rise 
from 2 to 3 hours. Bake 20 minutes in moderate oven, 

Mrs. Chase. 
PUFFS. 

One ^%,g, 1 cup milk, beat well. Add salt, heaping cup 
Henkel's flour, bake in gem pans. Mrs. Chase. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Three cups graham flour, cup Henkel's white flour, ^ 
teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda, sour milk to make them quit'e! 
stiff. Mrs. C. W. Sweet. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One ^^Z, salt, 1^ cups milk, 2 cups graham flour, 2 tea- 
spoons Royal baking powder. Mrs. Chase. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Beat 2 eggs, add Yt. cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, beat 
thoroughly. Add Yz teaspoon salt, 1 cup milk, stir in 1 cup 
cornmeal, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal baking powder and 
enough white flour to drop from spoon. Bake in shallow pan 
Yz hour in medium oven. Mrs. F. C. Hart, Jr. 



BREAD 157 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

One egg, 1 cup sugar, butter twice size of an egg, salt, 
2 cups sour milk, 2 level teaspoons soda, l}i cups cornmeal, 
1^4 cups Henkel's flour. Mrs. Durbin Newton. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

One cup yellow meal, 1 cup Henkel's flour, 1 teaspoon 
Royal baking powder, % cup sugar, salt, 1 tablespoon melted 
butter, 1 egg beaten with 1 cup milk, add to dry ingredients. 
If sour milk is used, substitute y^ teaspoon soda for baking 
powder. Can be baked in gem pans or in 1 loaf. 

Mrs. Chase 

Mrs. C. C. Stewart. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Two eggs, y^ cup melted butter and lard, ^ cup sugar, 
2 cups sour milk, 1^/i cups corn meal, 2 cups Henkel's flour, 2 
teaspoons soda, ^ teaspoon Royal baking powder. Soda 
to be put in sour milk. Mrs. Billmeyer, Norwalk, Ohio. 

CORN MEAL GEMS. 

One cup Henkel's flour, 1 cup corn meal, 2 heaping tea- 
spoons Royal baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 3^ cup sugar, 
butter size of an egg, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 cup sweet milk. 
Bake in gem pans for 25 minutes in quick oven. 

Mrs. Bachmann. 
JOHNNY CAKE. . 
One cup sour milk, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda 
dissolved in sweet milk, 2 eggs, >< cup sugar, a little salt, lyz 
cups meal, j^ cup Henkel's flour, 2 tablespoons melted butter. 
Put spider on stove with butter size of walnut, when hot pour 
in batter. Put in oven, when set add ^ cup sweet milk. 

Mrs. W. F. Monroe. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

Two tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon melted butter, salt, 
1 cup milk, ^ cup boiled rice, 2% cups Henkel's flour, 55^ 
level teaspoons Royal baking powder in flour. 

Mrs. M. B. Moon. 

BREAKFAST MUFFINS. 

Two tablespoons sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs beaten, 2 table- 
spoons butter (scant), 2 cups Henkel's flour, 2 teaspoons 
Royal baking powder. Heat and grease pans before putting 
in batter. Mrs. Hill. 

The KNOX ACIDULATED package contains flavoring and coloring. 



158 BREAD 

HUCKLEBERRY MUFFINS. 

Cream ^4 cup butter and 2 tablespoons sugar, add yolks 
of 2 eggs, pinch of salt and alternately 2 cups Henkel's flour 
sifted with 2 teaspoons Royal baking powder and 1 cup 
milk. Then add whites of eggs beaten stiff, lastly 1 cup 
huckleberries sprinkled with flour. Bake 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

HUCKLEBERRY MUFFINS. 

Cream ^ cup sugar and 1 tablespoon melted butter, add 
2 eggs, 5^ cup milk, ^ teaspoon salt, 2 cups Henkel's flour, 2 
teaspoons Royal baking powder, 1 cup huckleberries. Beat 
till very light and bake in gem pans in oven not very hot. 

Mrs. Walser, Chicago. 

DATE MUFFINS. 

Cream 5^ cup butter and 34 cup sugar, add 1 egg,, }i cup 
milk, 2 cups Henkel's flour with 3 level teaspoons Royal bak- 
ing powder and 3^ teaspoon salt. Add 3^ pound dates seeded 
and chopped, bake in mufiin tins. 

Miss Florence Litchfield, 
Mrs. McKean. 

YANKEE PUFFS. (Muffins). 

One and one-half cups Henkel's flour ; % teaspoon salt, 
1 scant teaspoon Royal baking powder, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 
tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, 1^4 cups milk, ^^ teaspoon vanilla. 
Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks and vanilla. Mix flour, 
salt and baking powder and alternate with milk; lastly beat 
whites of eggs stiff and add. Bake in muffin pans in hot oven. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Goddard. 

MUFFINS. 

Scant j4 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, Vs cup milk, 
y2 teaspoon salt, 1 egg, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal baking 
powder. Cream butter and add ingredients as for cake. 

Mrs. Schooley, 
Mrs. C C. Curtis. 
ONE EGG MUFFINS. 
Two and one-half cups Henkel's flour, 3^^ teaspoons Royal 
baking powder, 3^ teaspoon salt, 4 tablespoons sugar, 1 cup 
milk, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 1 egg, mix and sift dry 
.ingredients, add milk, beaten egg and melted butter. Bake in 
hot, greased tins 25 minutes. Florence Parry, 

Mrs. Robeson. 

KNOX GELATINE makes dainty desserts for dainty people. 



BREAD 159 

SALLY LUNN. 

Three tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 eggs, 1 
cup milk, salt, 83^ cups Henkel's flour, 3 teaspoons Royal 
baking powder. Bake in oblong cake tins. Mrs. McKean. 

POP OVERS. 

Beat 2 eggs thoroughly with ^4 teaspoon salt, add 1 cup 
Henkel's flour, % cup milk, ^ teaspoon melted butter and 
beat all with egg beater. Turn into hot buttered tins and bake 
in hot oven 30 or 35 minutes. Mrs. G. E. Goddard. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

Sift together 1 pint flour, 4 level teaspoons Royal baking 
powder and 1 teaspoon salt. Work in 3 tablespoons butter, 
add gradually % cup milk or water. Mix into soft dough, roll 
out ^ inch thick and cut into rounds. Bake 15 minutes in 
hot oven. Mrs. Robeson. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

1 cup cooked rice 2 teaspoons Royal baking 
1 tablespoon melted butter powder 

1 egg well beaten ^ cup milk stirred in gradu- 
J/2 teaspoon salt ally 

1 cup Henkel's flour 

Beat well and have the mixture like cake batter, bake 
about 20 minutes. 

Mrs. C. A. Bachmann. 

BRAN MUFFINS. 

2 cups Kellogg's Bran ^ cup milk 

2 eggs 4 teaspoons Royal baking 

1^ cups Henkel's white flour powder 
^ cup butter 5^ cup light brown sugar 

Cream butter, sugar and eggs. Sift flour with baking 
powder and mix with bran. Add milk and flour to egg mixture 
and when beaten smooth place in oiled muffin tins. Bake in 
quick oven. This makes 16 mufifins. Mrs. Webster Kay. 

BARLEY MUFFINS. 

One cup barley meal, Yz cup Henkel's white flour, ^ cup 
sour milk, large tablespoon butter or olive oil, ^ teaspoon 
soda, 2 tablespoons molasses or sugar, raisins and salt. Put 
in hot tins in hot oven. Mrs. Louise Gregory. 



160 



I^. CRUXTOX 

Old Number New Number 

2098 Woodward Ave. 9344 Woodward Ave. 

Phone Market 

4138 



The 

John Schlarr Creamery Co. 

TROY BRANCH 

DEALERS IN 

SPECIAL JERSEY 
MILK and CREAM 



/ ^ 




229 Baltimore Avenue, East 

Phone Northway 3490 



Woodward Hardware Company 

INCORPORATED 

HI-GRADE BUILDERS' HARDWARE 

CUTLERY — SPORTING GOODS — HOUSE FURNISHINGS 

A-B-C WASHING MACHINES 



9328-30 Woodward Ave. Market 3251 



iHgga 



And now your attention, please, I beg, 
On ways for cooking the perfect food; 

You may not know, hut that's an egg, 
It contains only elements for your good. 

— M. K. C. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Melt 1 level tablespoon of butter; stir in 1 level table- 
spoon flour ; pour 'in >^ cup milk, add pinch of salt and cook 
until thick. While this is cooking, beat yolks and whites of 
5 eggs separately. Beat yolks thoroughly into the white 
sauce, fold in whites lightly ; put in greased pan and bake in 
moderate oven. Mrs. A. L. Cowan. 

EGGS FOR BREAKFAST. 

Butter 6 small cups, dust them with bread crumbs. Put 
in each cup 1 raw agg, sprinkle with salt. Set cups in a pan 
of hot water until the whites are firm. Have ready, round 
pieces of buttered toast laid on hot dish. Put 1 egg on each 
piece. Mrs. Ira Jerome. 

CREAMED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Butter well the number of cups required and put 2 table- 
spoons of rich cream sauce in each cup ; break into this a 
raw egg, add a dash of salt and pepper. Over this put a layer 
of grated cheese. Repeat with cream sauce and cheese and 
over all put a layer of bread crumbs. Place cups in a pan of 
boiling water and bake 10 minutes. Serve in cups. 

Mrs. C. A. Britt. 

CURRIED EGGS. 

Take hard boiled eggs and slice them. 'Fry 1 tablespoon 
of chopped onions in a tablespoon of butter ; add 1 tablespoon 
Henkel's f^our, 1 teaspoon curry powder and 1 cup milk. 
Season with salt and paprika. Add a small piece of butter. 
Pour mixture over sliced eggs ; cover wMth a layer of bread 
crumbs ; brown in oven and serve hot. Mrs. Carl. 

Send for the KNOX GELATINE recipe book. 



162 EGGS 

EGGS GOLDENROD. 

Boil the required number of eggs for 10 minutes. Chop 
the whites and mix with cream sauce. Pour over slices of 
buttered toast. Put the yolks through a potato ricer and 
scatter lightly over top. Mrs. C. A. Britt. 

SPANISH OMELET. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons water, 2 teaspoons Henkel's 
flour ; season with salt and pepper. Fold the beaten whites in 
the above and turn into a warm, buttered pan. Cook, covered, 
over a moderate fire. When bottom is lightly browned, pour 
sauce on top and turn. Place on platter, pouring remainder 
of sauce around it. 

Sauce. 

One tablespoon butter, 2 teaspoons Henkel's flour, 1 cup 
of tomatoes, 2 tablespoons chopped pimentoes. A cup of 
green peas makes it very attractive looking, though not 
necessary. Mrs. Henry F. Brown. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH MEAT. 

Scramble 4 or 5 eggs. Have ready slices of hot buttered 
toast, spread thickly with ground chicken, ham or tongue. 
Heap the eggs upon this in mounds. Place on hot dish and 
garnish with pickled beets. Mrs. John Bishop. 

STUFFED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Four hard boiled eggs. Remove yolks, mash and add 2 
tablespoons grated cheese, 1 teaspoon vinegar, % teaspoon 
mustard, salt and a little cayenne. Add sufficient melted but- 
ter to make soft enough to shape and put back into whites. 

Mrs. C. A. Britt. 

EGGS STUFFED WITH DEVILED HAM, 

Eight hard boiled eggs, cut lengthwise ; remove yolks ; 
fill whites with following: 1 cup chopped ham, 1 teaspoon 
prepared mustard, ^ cup bread crumbs, ^ cup milk, 1 €:gg 
and paprika. Bring crumbs and milk to boil ; add other 
ingredients. 

Make sauce with 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 table- 
spoon Henkel's flour, ^ teaspoon salt. Cook in double boiler 
until thick ; pour over eggs and sprinkle with yolks which 
have been put through ricer or grated. Arline Chase. 

The KNOX ACIDULATED package contains flavoring and coloring. 



EGGS 163 

EGG TIMBALES WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon chopped pars- 

1 tablespoon Henkel's flour ley 

Yz cup milk y2 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs 1/^ teaspoon pepper 

Mix butter, flour and milk, add yolks of eggs beaten well, 
then seasoning and last fold in stiffly beaten whites. Turn 
into buttered molds set in pan with hot water and bake. For 
sauce use Yz can tomatoes cooked one-half hour, with thyme, 
celery, bay leaf and onion. Salt and pepper to taste. Add a 
little soda and thicken with flour to which water or milk is 
added. Serve Timbales immediately after taking from oven. 

Mrs. C. A. Bachmann. 

EGGS a la STATLER. 

Cook slices of bacon in oven, pour off fat, add 1 table- 
spoon butter, Qg^ for each person, fill in between eggs with 
seasoned tomatoes. Sprinkle top with chopped green peppers 
and cheese and return to oven until eggs are set, 

Mrs, G. F, Bean, 
EGG PATTIES. 

Put strip of bacon around edge of patty pan, drop ^^^ in 
each pan and put in oven until ^^^ is set, 

Mrs. E. I. Chase, 



Send for free sample of KNOX GELATINE. 



164 





Po 


tter 


and 


Armstrong 








FUNERAL DIRECTORS 






St] 


ric tly 


High 


Class Work 






at 


R e a 


s o n a 


b 1 e Prices 




NORTHWAY 








OFFICE AND 


CHAPEL 


510 








5269 THIRD 


AVENUE 



Lowrie 


& Robinson 






LUMBER COMPANY 






> 


Wholesale and Retail 






LUM BER- 


-LATH— SHINGLES 




SASH- 


-DOORS-INTERIOR FINISH 








YARDS 






Delray yard 


2569 


W. Jefferson Ave. 


Cedar 


26 


Dix Ave. and|P. M. 


R. R. 




Cedar 


29 


1686 Michigan Ave 






Walnut 


2^8 


West Warren Ave. 


and I6th 




Walnut 


426 



Compliments of 

Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Chandler 



QII|^^0^ italics 

And now, methinks, that it zvonld please 
If our repast •should end zuith cheese. 

— M. K. C. 

¥ 

CHEESE FONDUE. 

One cup scalded milk, 1 cup soft, stale bread crumbs, 1 
tablespoon butter, ^ teaspoon salt, 1 cup grated cheese, a 
dash of cayenne, 3 eggs. Mix milk, bread crumbs, butter, 
salt, cayenne and cheese together, then add yolks of eggs 
beaten until lemon colored. Cut and fold in the whites, beat- 
en until stiff. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake 20 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve at once. 

Olive J. Scott. 
CHEESE RELISH. 

Ten cent package of cream cheese, j4 lb. Roquefort 
cheese, 2 sweet green peppers, 1 small Bermuda onion, Yz 
stalk celery and 1 tablespoon butter. Cream the cheese and 
butter to a smooth paste; add the finely chopped onion, pep- 
pers and celery. Season with salt and paprika. Serve' with 
hot, toasted crackers. Mrs. Irving C. Wright. 

CHEESE AND RICE. 

Cover bottom of buttered pudding dish with boiled or 
steamed rice; dot over with butter, sprinkle with thin shav- 
ings of cheese; season with salt and pepper. Repeat in lay- 
ers until rice and cheese are used; add milk to >^ depth of 
contents of dish. Cover with buttered cracker crumbs and 
bake 20 minutes. Mrs. R. L. Stoddard. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

One cup scalded milk, 1 cup soft, stale bread, >4 lb. mild 
cheese cut m pieces, 1 large tablespoon butter, >^ teaspoon 
salt, 3 eggs, cayenne pepper, ^ teaspoon mustard. 

Alix first 5 ingredients, add yolks of eggs, beaten stiff; 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs; add pepper and 
mustard. Pour into buttered baking dish and bake 20 
minutes in moderate oven. Mrs. Geo. E. McKean. 



FOUR PINTS of jelly in each package of KNOX GELATINE. 



166 CHEESE DISHES 



COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Put 1 lb. cottage cheese in cheese cloth bag and run cold 
water through to thoroughly wash out sour milk. Squeeze 
dry and put in dish and add 2 or 3 soft boiled or poached 
eggs. 

If hard boiled eggs are used, put through a grinder and 
add cream, butter and salt. Chopped green peppers or pimen- 
toes added make a good variation. Mrs. Bassatt. 

CHEESE AND NUTS. 

Grate 1 lb. cheese; add enough cream to make it soft; 
stir in Yi lb. English walnuts that have been slightly broken. 
Pack in Nabisco wafer tin ; when cold cut in tbin slices. This 
is very nice served with salad. Mrs. Ira Jerome. 

CHEESE— ENGLISH MONKEY. 

Two cups hot milk. Add 1 cup grated cheese and let 
it melt. Then add 1 cup bread crumbs, salt, butter and a 
dash of paprika. Serve hot on slices of hot, buttered toast. 

Mrs. Harry Ellison. 

CHEESE STICKS. 

One cup grated cheese, 3-^ cup butter, 1 cup Henkel's 
flour, salt, and dash of cayenne. Mix with cold water, roll 
and bake in strips. Mrs. Carl. 

CHEESE SURPRISE. 

Cut 2 slices of bread a little thinner than for the table. 
Cut ordinary cream cheese little thinner than bread and put 
between slices like sandwiches. Put butter in frying pan and 
when hot put in the sandwich and fry slowly until a light 
brown on each side. Serve hot. Mrs. Henry Brown. 

DEVILED CHEESE. 

One-fourth lb. grated cheese, Yz cup milk, 1 teaspoon 
mustard, ]A, teaspoon cayenne, 1 ^%g. Melt cheese and milk 
in double boiler ; when smooth add beaten z^^ and mustard 
and cayenne rubbed to a paste in a little milk. Cook until 
thick. May be served hot on toast or as a sandwich spread. 

Mrs. Nettie Davis. 

ESCALLOPED CHEESE. 

One ^^'g, 1 pint milk, 1 teacup cheese, J^ dozen slices 
of buttered bread, 1 saltspoon salt. Butter a baking dish ; 
place a layer of well buttered slices of bread on bottom ; 
cover this with a layer of cheese, cut in thin slices, and alter- 
nate with layers of bread and cheese until dish is nearly 
filled. Cover with milk into which has been stirred a well 
beaten ^^g. Sprinkle the top with grated cheese ; cover 
closely and bake about 20 minutes in a quick oven. 

Mrs. M. Mulford. 



Ptrklps. Olatfiitp attb IJ?liat|pa 



Pickles, catsup, and chili sauce! 
Get to work — don't be cross; 
Make them sweet or make them sour, 
But don't delay another hour. 

— M. K. C. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

One peck tomatoes, peeled and chopped fine, 1 large 
red pepper, chopped fine, 4 cups cider vinegar, (5 onions, 
chopped fine, 2 heaping cups brown sugar, 4 level tablespoons 
salt, 1 tablespoon each of cloves and allspice, 2 tablespoons 
each cinnamon and ginger, 1 tablespoon mustard, 2 nutmegs, 
grated. Boil for an hour, or until thick enough to bottle. 

Mrs. J. K. Stock. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

One-half bushel tomatoes, 4 small red peppers, 2 quarts 
sour apples, 2 quarts onions, 4 cups vinegar, 4 cups brown 
sugar, small ^ teacup salt, 4 whole nutmegs, grated, 2 table- 
soons each cloves, allspice, cinnamon and ginger. Boil very 
slowly 3 hours. Mrs. A. L. Jones. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Take 18 large, ripe tomatoes, 1 large onion, 3 red peppers, 
chopped fine, 4 tablespoons salt, 8 tablespoons sugar, 4 cups 
vinegar, 3 teaspoons each of ground ginger and allspice, 
whole cinnamon and cloves tied up in cheese cloth bag; mix 
well and boil 1 hour. Mrs. A. Kehoe. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

One-half bushel tomatoes, 2 green and 2 red peppers, 2 
quarts onions, 2 quarts apples, 1 quart vinegar, 2 lbs. brown 
sugar, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
allspice, 1 teaspoon black pepper, 1 handful salt. Boil until 
thick. IVIiss Ida J. Kneeland. 



KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE— no bother— no trouble 
squeezing lemons. 



168 PICKLES, CATSUP AND RELISHES 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Seven lbs. tomatoes after skins are taken off; boil Yz 
hour ; then add 3 pints vinegar, 2 lbs. sugar, 3 green peppers, 
chopped fine, 8 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves. Boil 
all together until quite dark. Mrs. L. S. Hunt. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

To 1 gallon of juice, take 2 tablespoons of salt, 1 tea- 
spoon of black pepper, ^ teaspoon of cayenne pepper, 1^4 
tablespoons of ginger, 1 tablespoon of mustard, 8 drops of oil 
of cinnamon, 8 drops of oil of allspice, 8 drops of oil of cloves, 
1 pint of vinegar, Yi lb. brown sugar. 1 red pepper and 1 
large onion, boiled with tomatoes before straining, improves 
it. Rub through a sieve and add spices ; wet the ginger, pep- 
per and mustard before mixing, to avoid lumps. (One peck 
of tomatoes makes 1 gallon of juice). Using the oil of spices 
preserves the natural color of the tomatoes. More or less 
oils can be used, according to the taste. 

Mrs. J. E. Warren. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One-half bushel tomatoes, 1 pint vinegar, 1 cup brown 
sugar, y^ lb. mixed spices, salt to taste. Wash and slice 
tomatoes; boil until soft; strain through colander and add 
vinegar, sugar and spices (if package spices are used remove 
the leaf and bean). Add a few red peppers (small), if desired. 
Boil 4 hours, being careful not to burn. Add salt, strain 
through colander and bottle. If the spices are tied in muslin, 
the second straining is not necessary. Mrs. F. C. Hart. 

SLICED PICKLES. 

One dozen large cucumbers, 2 quarts onions, 1 quart 
vinegar, 1 cup sugar. 1 cup salt, V^ teaspoon each of currv 
powder, cayenne and tumeric. Peel and slice cucumbers and 
onions, cover with salt and let stand over night. Then rinse 
well. Scald vinegar and spices together ; then drop in cu- 
cumbers and onions. Let them boil up once. Bottle. 

Mrs. Chas. Pelton. 

SLICED CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Six quarts sliced cucumbers, 3 quarts little onions. For 
3 successive mornings, pour scalding brine over pickles. Boil 
3 quarts vinegar (cider), 4 lbs. brown sugar, ^ oz. celery 
seed, Yz cup shredded peppers, ^ cup allspice (whole), ^ 
cup mustard seed, 1 tablespoon of tumeric, 2 heaping table- 
spoons mustard. Stir all in vinegar and pour hot over 
pickles. Mrs. A. R. Kinney. 



PICKLES, CATSUP AND RELISHES 169 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

To each gallon jar of small cucumbers, add 2 cups of salt, 
then fill up with boiling- water and let stand 24 hours. Drain 
in colander. Take 2 quarts vinegar, add 2 cups sugar, 1 red 
pepper, cut fine, 1 teaspoon each of ground cloves and cin- 
namon, tied in a piece of cheesecloth ; let come to a boil ; then 
add cucumbers and let come to a boil again. Pack in scalers 
and lill up with vinegar they were boiled in. 

Mrs. Carrie I. Wright. 

DILL PICKLES. 

Ten dozen cucumbers ; pour boiling water over them 
and let stand all night. 1 gallon soft water, 1 pint salt, 2 
quarts cider vinegar, a large handful of dill seeds. Pour 
over the pickles ; cover with cloth ; let stand in a cool place 
10 days. Wash cloth on top of crock every day. If not 
enough vinegar to cover the amount of pickles, make more, 
using the same proportions. Mrs. C. E. Mutschel. 

GREEN TOMATO SOY. 

Two gallons green tomatoes, sliced, without peeling; 
slice also 12 good sized onions ; 2 quarts of vinegar, 1 quart 
sugar, 2 tablespoons each of salt, ground mustard and black 
pepper, 1 tablespoon of cloves and allspice. Mix all together 
and cook until tender, stirring often, lest they should scorch; 
put up in small glass jars. A good sauce for all kinds of 
meat or fish. Mrs. Carrie I. Wright. 

CHOPPED PICKLES. 

One peck green tomatoes, 1 quart green peppers, 5 
onions, chopped fine ; sprinkle with 1 cup fine salt ; let stand 
over night. Drain well ; add 2 quarts vinegar, 1 quart sugar, 

1 cup white mustard seeds, 2 tablespoons celery seed, 2 table- 
spoons whole cloves. After it is heated through let simmer 
3 or 4 hours. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

One peck green tomatoes, 2 quarts onions, ^ cup salt. 
Let the above stand over night ; in morning drain ; then add 
J quart vinegar, 2 quarts water. Boil slowly 20 minutes ; 
drain again ; then add 2 quarts vinegar, 3 cups sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon cloves, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 2 teaspoons of ginger, 

2 teaspoons mustard, 6 large peppers. Roil 1 hour. 

Mrs. Theodore Davenport. 



Send for the KNOX GELATINE recipe book. 



170 PICKLES, CATSUP AND RELISHES 

FRENCH PICKLES. 

Chop fine 1 peck green tomatoes, G onions, 4 green pep- 
pers. Sprinkle with 1 cup salt and let stand over night. 
Drain well^ then boil 15 minutes in 1 pint vinegar and 2' 
pints water. Drain and then bod 20 minutes with 2 quarts 
vinegar, 2 lbs. sugar, ^ lb. white mustard seed, 1 tablespoon 
each of cinnamon, black pepper and celery seed, 2 teaspoons- 
cloves. Makes about 7 quarts. Helen M. Hyde. 

PICCALILLI. 

One peck green tomatoes, 4 onions, 4 green peppers 
(seeded), 2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon each allspice, cloves 
and cinnamon. Slice tomatoes, sprinkle over them 1 cup 
salt and let stand over night ; then drain and add above in- 
gredients with enough vinegar to cover. Cook slowly }^ 
hour after they start to boil. Put up in jars or crocks. 

Mrs. Geo E. Goddard. 

PEPPER RELISH, 

Twelve each of red and green peppers, 12 onions, 
medium size. Put through food chopper. (If hot peppers 
are used take out seeds.) Pour boiling water over all; let 
stand 12 mmutes. Drain thoroughly; add 1 cup sugar, 3 cups 
vinegar, 3 tablespoons salt. Boil 15 minutes ; seal hot. 

Mrs. Arthur Montgomery, 
Mrs. H. Hagerty. 
PEPPER HASH. 
Chop fine 12 green peppers ; 12 red peppers ; cover with 
vinegar and cook 10 or 15 minutes; then drain off vinegar; 
add 15 onions, chopped fine, 3 teaspoons salt, 2 cups sugar, 
1 quart vinegar; cook up well and seal while hot. 

Mrs. Fletcher. 
BEET AND CABBAGE RELISH. 
One quart chopped cabbage. 1 quart boiled beets, chop- 
ped fine, 2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon black pepper, 1 teacup 
grated horse radish. Mix all together; cover with cold vine- 
gar and bottle. Mrs. J. K. Stock. 

RIPE CUCUMBER RELISH. 

Twelve large, ripe cucumbers (leave out seeds), 8 large 
red peppers (take out seeds), 10 large onions, 3 pints vine- 
gar, 5 cups sugar, 6 tablespoons white mustard seeds, 4 
tablespoons celery seeds. Peel cucumbers and slice ; make 
a brine and let them lay over night; drain well. Chop onions 
and peppers together and cucumbers separately so to drain 
the water that forms from chopping. Place all in a kettle 
with the \ inegar and boil about 30 minutes, o? fintil trans- 
parent. Mrs. J. E. Warren. 



PICKLES, CATSUP AND RELISHES 171 

CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

In the bottom of a crock put a layer of sliced sour 
pickle, then a layer of brown sugar and mixed spices and so 
on until crock is filled, cover with vinegar and water, half 
and half. Cover and let stand over night. 

Mrs. Sprague Jones. 

PLAIN PICKLES. 

Three gallons small cucumbers and silver onions, 4 
green peppers, 1 red pepper. Some slices of horse radish root. 
Put cucumbers in brine 48 hours j- let drain and dry. 1 gallon 
vinegar, alum size of hickory nut, 4 lbs. brown sugar (or 
more), ^ lb. whole allspice, % lb. whole cloves and a stick 
of cinnamon. Cook and strain. Pour boiling hot over pickles. 
Keeps better in crocks. Mrs. W. H McClenahen. 

DILL CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Pack small cucumbers and a few sprigs of dill into a 
quart jar. To each quart add 1 tablespoon salt, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 tablespoon mustard. Cover with vinegar (not too 
strong), and seal. All cold. Mrs. R. J. Grier. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Slice, sprinkle with salt and let stand 3 hours 1 dozen 
medium-sized cucumbers and about the same amount of 
onions. Drain and boil in about 1 quart weak vinegar until 
nearly tender. Then for each quart of vinegar that it takes 
to cover them add the following dressing: 2 cups brown 
sugar, }i tablespoon tumeric, ^ tablespoon mustard, 2 table- 
spoons flour and add to above and boil until thick. One small 
hot red pepper can be used and less mustard. 

Mrs. R. J. Grier. 
SLICED OLIVE OIL PICKLES. 

Place sliced cucumbers, sweet red peppers, whole silver 
onions in strong brine over night. In morning drain, let 
come to a boil in weak vinegar with alum size of a walnut. 
Drain. Put in quart jars, add 1 tablespoon olive oil, 1 tea- 
spoon white mustard seed, 1 teaspoon celery seed to each 
jar. For each quart heat 1 cup sugar in 1 cup cider vinegar. 
Pour over pickles and seal. Mrs. Webster Kay. 

SLICED PICKLES. 

Twelve large cucumbers, 4 onions, 2 cups vinegar, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 tablespoon mustard, 1 tablespoon tumeric, 1 tea- 
spoon pepper. Peel and slice cucumbers and onions, 
sprinkle with salt and let stand over night. Scald vinegar, 
sugar and spices together ; add cucumbers and onions, let 
tliem boil up once. Seal. Mrs. Cowan. 



172 PICKLES, CATSUP AND RELISHES 

SWEET MUSTARD PICKLES. 

One peck green tomatoes, 1 peck onions. Slice alter- 
nately in layers, green tomatoes and onions. Salt each layer 
and let stand over night. Drain off brine and use }4 vinegar 
and water enough to cover ; cook until tender. Drain off 
and make syrup of ^ gallon cider vinegar, 8 cups brown 
sugar. 1 cup mustard, 8 teaspoons tumeric. Mix these sep- 
arately with vinegar until quite thin : 1 teaspoon each ground 
cinnamon, cloves and allspice tied in a bag and ^ teaspoon 
each of the same spices, whole, put in loose, and 1 chopped 
red pepper (seeds removed). Let all come to a boil; put in 
pickles and boil again. Mrs. Harry M. Freed. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

One peck ripe tomatoes ; wash and cut up with 2 red 
peppers ; put in kettle and boil until soft enough to put 
through colander. Then put through strainer into kettle 
and add ^ lb. salt, 1 lb. brown sugar, 2 onions, ^ oz. all- 
spice, 1 oz. ginger, cloves and mace (spices whole and tied 
in thin cloth). Boil 1 hour; remoye onion and spices; add 
y2 lb. mustard mixed in 1 quart cold vinegar. Boil a few 
minutes and bottle — keeps perfectly without sealing. 

Mrs. H. C. Leach. 
TOMATO RELISH. 

One peck ripe tomatoes ; chop and drain over night ; 3 
large onions, 2 peppers, 3 head celery, chopped fine, 3/| cup 
salt, 2 lbs. browm sugar, 2 oz. white mustard seed, 1 oz. ground 
cinnamon, 3 pints vinegar. Mix but do not cook. 

Mrs. A. A. Higginson. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

For 7 lbs. peaches after they are pared, 1 pint vinegar, 
4 lbs. sugar, 1 teaspoon cloves, 2 teaspoons each of allspice 
and cinnamon, j^ teaspoon ginger, ^^ teaspoon mace. Above 
spices ground, put in bag. Let sugar, vinegar and spices come 
to a boil, then add peaches. Cook thoroughly, but not too 
soft. Put in glass jars and pour syrup over. Seal hot. Pears 
can be done the same way. Mrs. Arthur Montgomery, 

SPICED PICKLES. 

Ten large sour pickles; wash and slice in convenient 
size for table and drain. Make syrup of 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
vinegar, Yz teaspoon each cinnamon, allspice and cloves, in 
bag. Pour over pickles hot and let stand several days before 
using. Mrs. C. C. Curtis. 

See that the name K-N-O-X is on each package of gelatine you buy. 



PICKLES, CATSUP AND RELISHES 173 

CORN RELISH. 

Eighteen ears corn, 1 large bunch celery, 1 small cab- 
bage, 4 large onions, 2 green peppers, 2 red peppers, 4 cups 
sugar, 1 cup salt, 2 quarts vinegar, 4 tablespoons mustard. 
Cut corn from cob, cut celery, chop onions, cabbage and pep- 
pers quite fine ; put all together in kettle : after they come to a 
boil; boil steadily for 30 minutes; put in cans and seal hot. 

Mrs. Chase. 
CORN RELISH. 
Eighteen large ears corn, 3 red peppers, 4 large onions, 
1 cabbage, 34 lb. mustard, dry, 4 cups sugar, 2 quarts vine- 
gar, y2 cup salt. Chop fine; boil 1 hour; put in mustard 
shortly before taking from fire. 

Mrs: H. C. LaFlamboy. 
CUCUMBER SAUCE. 
One dozen good sized cucumbers, sliced thin as for table ; 
sprinkle with salt and let stand 3 hours; drain and add 1 
quart vinegar, 1 teacup olive oil, % teacup black mustard 
seed, % cup white mustard seed, 1 teaspoon celery seed and 
onion enough to give a slight or strong flavor, as one pre- 
fers. Put up in glass jars. This will keep all winter and is 
especially nice with fish. Mrs. Mark L. Palmerlee. 

CANNED BEETS. 

One gallon cider vinegar, 2 quarts water, 3 quarts sugar, 
5 tablespoons white mustard seed, y^ pint salt. Boil 1 hour. 
This amount will cover 15 quarts. Put cooked beets in jars 
and cover with liquid. Seal. Mrs. W. T. Fisk. 

COLD VINEGAR PICKLES. 

Stir 1 cup sugar, 1 cup salt, 1 cup horseradish root 
(medium sized pieces) and j4 cup Coleman's mustard into 1 
gallon cold vinegar. Pour this mixture over pickles. Un- 
necessary to seal. Mrs. Wm. A. Snyder. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Six quarts small cucumbers and silver onions, 6 large green 
peppers, 4 red peppers, 1 cauliflower. Put cucumbers in brine 
48 hours. Onions and cauliflower 24 hours. Scald (not boil) 
all in brine and let drain. 3 quarts cider vinegar, 9 tablespoons 
Coleman's mustard, V/z tablespoons tumeric, ^ cups sifted 
flour, 4 cups granulated sugar (or more). Make paste of 
mustard, flour and tumeric with some vinegar and add sugar. 
Boil until thickens and add pickles for a few minutes. 

Mrs. W. H. McClenahen. 



KNOX GELATINE is clear and sparkling. 



174 



CHAS. H. LANGLEY 

Fancy Groceries, Fruits and Vegetables 



Two Telephones 

GLENDALE 38U0 Warren Ave., W. at Greenwood 

1473 Detroit, Mich. 



GEORGE VORPAGEL 

MEATS 

In connection with Langley's Grocery 
Glendale 1473 Warren and Greenwood Avenues 



Compliments of 

Mrs. Edward I. Chase 



Flach Hardware Company 

General Hardware, Tools, Paints, Oils, 
Stoves and Ranges 



Phone Glendale 7365 1108 Warren Ave., W^est 



JTOarmalab^B, ^^n^arru^s an^ J^lli^a 



Fruits that grew in sun and shade, 
Found now in jelly and marmalade ; 
Preserves and jam, so rich and sweet, 
Don't eat too much — be discreet. 

— M. K. C. 

APRICOT CONSERVE. 

One lb. apricots, 2 lbs. sugar, 1 one quart can grated 
pineapple. Cover the apricots with water and let soak over- 
night ; in morning add sugar and pineapple, using water in 
which apricots were soaked, cook slowly until thick, about 
lyz hours. Airs. Louise Gregory. 

PEACH CONSERVE. 

Five lbs. of fruit, after pitting, 5 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. raisins, 
4 oranges cut in cubes, leaving on part of rind, juice of ]^ 
lemon. Cook slowly for two hours. Nut meats may be added 
if desired about ^A hour before it is finished cooking. Put in 
glasses and seal like jelly. Mrs. W. W Hall, Toledo, O. 

AMBER MARMALADE. 

Cut fine 1 orange, 1 lemon, 1 grapefruit ; remove cores 
and seeds. Use all pulp and peel. Measure fruit and add 
3 times amount of water. Let stand over night in earthen 
bowl. Boil 10 minutes only. Let stand another night. 
Measure fruit and use same amount of sugar. Boil fruit 
y2 hour; add sugar and boil until it jellies. 

Mrs. Carrie L Wright. 

Mrs. E. L Chase. 

CARROT MARMALADE. 

Put through chopper (coarse cutter) l^j lbs. carrots. 
Cook in a small quantity of water until tender. Put 2 lem- 
ons through chopper, as above, and cook 15 minutes. Then 
put carrots and lemons together with 2 lbs. sugar and boil 
until thick; a few minutes only being required. Put in jelly 
g^lasses. ' Mrs. Cora E. Johnson. 

Try KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE with the Lemon Flavor 

enclosed. 



176 MARMALADES, ETC. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Slice thin 4 oranges and 2 lemons ; add 22 cups of water 
and let stand 24 hours. Boil 1 hou/ and let stand 24 hours 
more. Add 16 cups of sugar; boil until it jellies. 

Miss Huston. 

PEACH AND PEAR MARMALADE. 

Pare and slice moderately fine equal quantities of peaches 
and pears. Add as much sugar as fruit and cook until thick. 
Delicious. Mrs. C. E. Mutschel. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE. 

Six lbs. sugar, 4 lbs. rhubarb, 2 lemons. Slice lemons 
fine and cook all together until thick as desired. 

Mrs. M. E. Buck. 
TOMATO MARMALADE. 
Two lbs. tomatoes, 1 lb. tart apples, 2^ lbs. sugar, 2 
lemons. Cut tomatoes and apples small ; cut lemons in thin 
slices. Boil all together 1^-2 hours. 

Mrs. A. D. Campbell. 

CHERRY CONSERVE. 

Six quarts cherries, 4 oranges (skins only) cut in small 
pieces, 1 package seeded raisins, ^ lb. nuts (almonds pre- 
ferred), also cut small. Use a little less sugar than fruit. Fruit 
may be cooked in fireless cooker ; then add sugar and cook 
until thick. Mrs. H. Gaylord Holt. 

CHERRY RELISH. 

Four lbs. cherries after they are pitted, 4 lbs. sugar, 1 
lb. raisins, 4 oranges, rind of 1 orange. Cook until quite thick. 

Mrs. R. J. Monteith. 

CURRANT CONSERVE. 

Four quarts currants, juice and pulp of 4 oranges, 1 
pint strained honey ; 4 lbs. sugar. Cook honey, sugar, orange 
pulp and juice 20 minutes. Add currants and cook 5 min- 
utes more. Mrs. H. Gaylord Holt. 

STRAWBERRY AND PINEAPPLE CONSERVE. 

Equal parts of firm strawberries and diced pineapple. 
Cook 20 minutes. Then add equal amount of sugar. Cook 
until it jells. Mrs. Wm. A. Snyder. 

GRAPE CONSERVE. 

Five lbs. grapes, 5 lbs. sugar, 3 large oranges, cut fine, 
1 lb. seeded raisins. Pulp the grapes. Cook pulp and skins 
separately ; put pulp through sieve ; add other ingredients 
and cook 30 minutes. Miss Anna M. Kneeland. 



MARMALADES, ETC. 177 

PEAR CONSERVE. 

Five lbs. soft pears, 5 lbs. sugar, 1 lb. raisins, 3 oranges, 
3 lemons, 1 cup nut meats. Cut pears fine, cover with sugar 
and let stand over night. In morning, add raisins, lemons, 
oranges and huts. Cook until thick. Albertine Boyce. 

EAST INDIA PEARS. 

Take hard pears, peel, core and cut in very thin slices. 
For 8 lbs. of sliced fruit, take same quantity of sugar, 1 pint 
of water, 4 lemons, ^ lb. preserved ginger. The lemons must 
be cut in long, thin slices. Put all together and boil slowly 
1 hour. Mrs. A. Montgomery. 

PLUM CONSERVE. 

One peck plums, 2 oranges. 1 lb. T^nglish walnuts, one 25c 
bottle of maraschino cherries ; sugar equal in bulk to plums. 
Pour boiling water over plums and remove skins and stones. 
Boil oranges whole until tender; chop and add to plums. 
Add walnuts, cherries and sugar. Cook until thick. 

Mrs. C. E. Mutschel. 

PLUM COMPOTE 

Six lbs. plums, after stones are removed, 6 lbs. sugar, 2 
lbs. seeded raisins, juice and grated rind of 4 oranges, 1 lb. 
broken walnut meats. Boil until it jellies. 

Mrs Arthur Montgomery. 

SPICED CHERRIES. 

Five lbs. cherries, 3 lbs. sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves. Allspice may be used also, if 
desired. Boil vinegar, sugar and spices to a syrup ; add cher- 
ries and cook until thick. Mrs. C. E. Mutschel. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Four quarts currants, after they have been picked over, 
3^ lbs su^ar, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 1 tablespoon cloves, 
y^ pint vinegar. Put vinegar, sugar and spices on to boil ; 
when boiling add currants and boil 1 hour or until they are 
thick Mrs Bachmann. 

ORANGE STRAWS. 

Cut, peel in lengths ; boil 20 minutes. Drain. 
Syrup. 

One cup sugar, ^ cup water; boil until it threads. Put 
in peel and boil slowly 20 minutes. Put on a platter and roll 
in powdered sugar. Mrs. E I. Chase 

KNOX GELATINE is economical— FOUR PINTS in each package. 



178 MEMORANDA 



MARMALADES, ETC. 179 



JELLIED PRUNES. 

One-half lb. prunes, ^4 box Knox's gelatine, 1 cup suirar. 
54 cup lemon juice. Wash prunes and soak for several hours in 
2 cups of cold water ; cook in same water until soft. Remove 
prunes, stone and cut in quarters. To the prune water add 
enough boiling water to make 1 pint. Add gelatine that has 
been soaked in ^ cup cold water; stir until dissolved. Add 
lemon juice and sugar; pour over the prunes. Stir twice until 
stiffened. (One package of lemon Jello may be used in place 
of plain gelatine.) 

Serve with sweetened cream or boiled custard. 

Alma Dorothy Campbell. 

PINEAPPLE HONEY. 

Grind pineapple in food chopper (medium cutter) ; then 
add 2 cups of sugar to 1 of pineapple. Boil 10 minutes only; 
then put in glasses. This is nice for hot biscuits and ice cream. 

Mrs. C F. Shirts, Chicago, 111. 

QUINCE HONEY. 

Three small quinces, 1 pint boiling water, I pint sugar. 
Boil water and sugar while paring and grating quinces. Add 
qu'nces and let boil 15 or 20 minutes. Put in jelly glasses. 

Mrs. C. E. Mutschel 

CRABAPPLE JELLY. 

Wash apples ; remove stems and unsound spots. Nearly 
cover with cold water; boil slowly until well cooked. Put 
into a jelly bag and let drain over night. To each measure 
of fruit juice use same measure of sugar. Boil juice well 20 
minutes. Skim. Heat sugar, stir into boiling juice and boil 
about 5 minutes. Test for jell by dropping from bowl of 
spoon. 

Have ready tumblers in a pan of hot water, into which 
pour jelly. Let stand 24 hours, if possible, before sealing with 
hot parafKine. Store in a cool, dry place. 

The ju'ce from canned raspberries or cherries added to the 
juice of crabapples is an improvement. 

Mrs. R. C. Bouton. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

One quart cranberries. 1 pint sugar, i^ pint water. Put 
all together and boil 10 minutes. Strain through colander. 

Mrs. T. E. Warren.'- 



ISO MARMALADES, ETC. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Wash currants ; pick them over, but do not stem ; add 
enough water so that it can be seen, but do not cover. Cook 
and mash well so that no whole currants remain. Drain over 
night in jelly bag. Measure juice and boil 20 minutes ; then 
add slowly an equal amount of sugar, v/hich has been well 
heated. Be sure sugar is melted, but do not let jelly boil. 
Put in glasses. Mrs. Arthur Montgomery. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Four or 5 lbs. green and ripe grapes, l^^ cups water. Cook 
until tender; strain. Use equal amounts of juice and sugar. 
First boil the juice 10 minutes without sugar and boil 10 
minutes after adding sugar. 

RASPBERRY-APPLE JELLY. 

One quart red raspberries, either fresh or canned, 4 quarts 
sour apples. Make as ordinary jelly. 

Mrs. Robert Grier. 

PEACH MARMALADE. 

Eighteen peaches cut in small pieces, grated rind and juice 
of 1 lemon, 1 large orange (cut in small pieces without peel- 
ing). As much sugar as fruit. Cook 1 hour. 

Mrs. S. Simmons. 



KNOX GELATINE makes dainty desserts for dainty people. 



(EI|itfitig italics 



Isn't it jolly, on a winter's night. 
The chafing dish supper to cook! 

Whatever it is yon wish to make 

You'll find it right here in our book. 

— M. K. C. 

CHEESE MIXTURE. 

One lb. cheese grated, 1 egg well beaten, 1 can prepared 
tomato soup, butter size of walnut, ^ cup chopped olives, salt 
and pepper to taste. Melt butter in chafing dish and gradually 
add cheese. When all is melted add soup, stirring constantly. 
Then add the beaten egg before mixture is too hot. Lastly, 
add chopped olives. Serve on toast or wafers. 

Mrs. W. C. Lawrence. 



WELSH RAREBIT. 

Put 1 lb. York State cheese through grinder ; add 1 tea- 
spoon mustard; paprika. Put in chafing dish or double boiler; 
add 1 tablespoon butter. Melt all together; add slowly ^2 cup 
milk; beat 2 eggs and stir in. If too thick, thin with milk. 
Serve on crackers. 

To make Mexican Rarebit, add 1 can tomatoes (strained) 
and ] green pepper. Arline Chase. 



FOR THE CHAFING DISH. 

One teaspoon butter, 1 small onion cut fine, 1 cup boiled 
rice, y^ pint milk (rich), 1 can shrimps, y^ cup catsup. Melt 
butter; add onion and when brown add rice, milk and shrimps 
cut in shreds. W^hen heated add catsup and when piping hot 
serve on toast or crackers. 

Mrs. Geo. A. Ransom. 

Mrs. James Kermath. 

KNOX GELATINE makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly. 



182 CHAFING DISHES 



SHRIMP WIGGLE. 

One cup shrimps, 1 cup canned peas, 4 tablespoons butter, 

2 tablespoons flour, l^^ cups milk, j4 teaspoon salt. Melt but- 
ter and add flour with salt, stirring constantly; then pour on 
milk gradually. As soon as sauce thickens, add shrimps and 
peas drained from their liquor. Serve on Uneeda biscuit or 
buttered toast. Mrs. J. E. Warren, 

CRAB MEAT, "A LA KING." 

One lb. crab meat, ^2 lb. French mushrooms, 1 green pep- 
per diced finely, ^ teaspoon kitchen bouquet. Mix crab meat, 
mushrooms and peppers together and add a white sauce made 
of 1 quart milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons flour and 
2 eggs, well beaten. Melt butter first ; add flour and when 
thoroughly mixed add milk, into which eggs have been beaten. 
Cook slowly until the sauce begins to thicken ; then add dry 
ingredients and cook about 10 minutes. 

Mrs. John Crossley. 

CHICKEN, "A LA KING." 

One 4 lb. chicken, j^ sweet green pepper, 1 can mush- 
rooms, ^2 can pimentoes, 1 tablespoon flour, 2 tablespoons 
butter. 

Have chicken (which has been cooked until tender) cut 
into cubes ; mix pimentoes, mushrooms and peppers finely cut, 
with the chicken. Cover with milk and thicken with flour 
mixed in melted butter. Season with salt and paprika and 
cook until thoroughly heated. Mrs. Harry M. Freed. 

LOBSTER, A LA NEWBEG. 

One large lobster, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup cream, yolks 
of 3 eggs. Put butter in chafing dish and melt ; add dash of 
cayenne pepper and lobster, which has been cut with a silver 
knife into chunks. Cook for 5 minutes covered. Mix beaten 
eggs with cream ; pour on lobster. As soon as it boils, serve 
on buttered toast. Mrs. G. E. McKean. 



KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE— no bother— no trouble- 
squeezing lemons. 



^pupragpfi 



The sunshine of summer, 

The ram and the dew, 
Are combined in the nectar 

We now serve to you. 

— M. K. C. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

One dozen lemons, >< dozen oranges, i^ pineapple, 3 ban- 
anas sliced, 1 bottle cherries. Sugar to taste. 

Mrs. Vincent Stock. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Wash and pick grapes from stems. Cover with water, 
boil thoroughly; strain through colander and then through 
fine bag. Boil juice with 1 cup of sugar to 1 pint of juice. 
Seal air tight. Mrs. Chas. C. Stewart. 

ORANGE ALBUMEN. 

White of 1 ^gg, slightly beaten; add juice of 1 orange, 2 
teaspoons sugar. Fill glass with ice cold water. 

Mrs. W. J. Johnston. 

A DELICIOUS DRINK. 

Get 5 cents' worth each of essence of spruce, oil of winter- 
green, oil of sassafras. Take 9 quarts warm water, in which 
dissolve 1 yeast cake and stir well. Add 3 lbs. sugar, 5 drops 
essence of spruce, 10 drops oil of wintergreen, 15 drops oil of 
sassafras. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Put in bottles or jars ; 
cook tight ; keep in warm place 8 hours, then in a cool place. 
In three days it will be ready for use. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Boil 10 minutes 4 cups sugar and 8 cups water. Add juice 
and pulp of 1^ dozen lemons, 1 doz. oranges, 1 qt. Appoli- 
naris, 1 pt. cold tea (green), pineapple juice and cherries. 
Serves about 60 people. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

GRAPE JUICE PUNCH. 

One qt. white or blue grape juice, 1 pt. cold tea (green), 
juice of 3 oranges and 3 lemons, sugar and water to taste. 

Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

DESSERTS can be made in a short time with KNOX GELATINE. 



184 



Make This Your Store 

— for home electric servants 

* Approved by Good Housekeeping Insti- 
tute and sold at our store: Apex Electric 
Suction Cleaner, Laun-Dry-Ette Washing 
Machine, Simplex Ironer. 

TlieStroui-Midmel (d. 




STROUD 
MICHAEL 



1443-45 
BROADWAY 

Cherry 5886 



Telfer's Coffees 

Are Best 



^att&wtrI|PB 



A picnic without a sandwich! 

It couldn't he — you know, 
'Tis the same at reception or party, 

You find them wherever you go. 

Use meat, nuts or most any filling, 
With bread or rolls, brown or white, 

A sandtvich may be just a sandwich, 
But it's so much better made right. 

Cut bread as thin as a tvafer 
In shapes, your fancy to please. 

Good to eat, artistic and dainty, 
Are sandzviches made like these. 

— M. K. C. 



RIBBON SANDWICHES. 

Remove crust from loaf of bread, cut loaf lengthwise in 
four, butter one section and spread with pimentos, drained, 
chopped and mixed with mayonnaise. Place next section on 
this and butter, spread with Philadelphia cream cheese. Place 
third section on and butter, spread with chopped green pep- 
pers drained and mixed with mayonnaise. Put on last section. 
Wrap in damp cloth. When ready to serve cut in half inch 
slices. Mrs. E. I. Chase. 

OPEN SANDWICHES. 

Cut any kind of bread in fancy shapes, butter and spread 
with Philadelphia cream cheese. Cut pimentos in fancy shapes 
to form flowers or border, or use almonds to form daisies. 

Mrs. E. I Chase. . 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 

Between 2 slices of bread put lettuce leaf, mayonnaise 
dressing ; then slice white meat of chicken ; more dressing. Put 
bacon, fried crisp, on top. Cut across cornerwise. Put pickle 
cut lengthwise on plate. 

For Dainty Delicious Desserts use KNOX GELATINE. 



186 SANDWICHES 



CREAM CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Two hard boiled eggs, 3 Spanish peppers, package Phil- 
adelphia cream cheese, ^ tablespoon onion juice, Yz teaspoon 
salt. Put all through grinder ; mix with mayonnaise. 

Marion Wiley. 

FAVORITE SANDWICHES. 

Cream 2 tablespoons butter ^ cup grated cheese, ^ tea- 
spoon each of mustard and paprika and ^ cup chopped, stuf- 
fed olives. Season with salt. Mrs. E. L. Buell. 

FLORADORA SANDWICHES. 

Six tablespoons of chopped, cooked chicken, 3 tablespoons 
chopped green pepper, Yz teasoon chopped parsley, 2 table- 
spoons mayonnaise dressing Salt to taste. 

HAM SANDWICH FILLINGS. 

Chop ham very fine and mix with mayonnaise. 

Chop ham and 2 small pickles very fine ; mix with may- 
onnaise. 

Ham mixed with German mustard and cream is a change. 

Hard boiled eggs, chopped, may ho. added to ham. 

Horseradish mixed with ham is tasty. 

Cut bread with round cutter ; use ham filling. Cut cir- 
cular pieces out of center of top of sandwich and insert half a 
stuffed olive. 

LINCOLN SANDWICHES. 

Cut brown and white bread in thin slices ; spread with 
butter ; arrange tongue over white bread ; add mayonnaise. 
Spread brown bread with any soft cheese. Put together. 

LOBSTER SANDWICHES A LA BOULEVARD. 

One cup lobster, chopped, yolks of 5 hard boiled eggs, 
grated. Moisten with melted butter; season with prepared 
mustard, salt and vinegar. 

PEANUT SANDWICH FILLINGS. 

Grind peanuts ; add chopped olives, a little castup and 
Worcestershire sauce. Thin with salad dressing. 

Mrs. Morton. 

Put peanuts through grinder ; mix with mayonnaise. 
Send for the KNOX GELATINE recipe book. 



SANDWICHES 187 



PIMENTO SANDWICHES. 

One lb, cheese, G large pickles, (J hard boiled eggs, 1 small 
can pimentoes; drain. Grind all in meat chopper; add salt to 
taste and enough mayonnaise dressing to spread. 

Mrs. W. E. Reeves, Wichita, Kan. 

Drain can of pimentoes well ; chop and add mayonnaise. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES. 

Toast 2 slices of bread ; on one place thin slices of cheese, 
dash of paprika ; put under blaze to melt. On the other spread 
a thick layer of sardines. Put together and serve with slice 
of tomato on top. Margaret Ball. 

TONGUE SANDWICHES. 
Cold slices of tongue, dipped in mayonnaise and chopped 

fine. Parsley n^n^■ be added. Dipping tongue in mayonnaise 
first seasons it better. 

%> 

¥ 

CINNAMON SANDWICHES. 

Make a paste of butter, sugar, cinnamon and spread on 
thin slices of hot toast. Margaret Ball. 

CHICKEN FINGER SANDWICHES! 

Mince cold cooked chicken very fine ; moisten with enough 
boiled salad dressing to roll in size of finger ; season with 
minced celery and onion. Cover with thin baking powder 
biscuit crust, pinch ends together, brush with beaten egg. 
Bake in oven. 

TOASTED CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Toast bread ; butter. >4 lb. cheese, chopped with 2 pimen- 
toes. Spread on toast; put in oven until cheese begins to melt. 
Serve hot. Mrs. Harry M. Freed. 

CRAB SANDWICHES. 

Moisten the grated yolk of 1 hard boiled egg with 1 table- 
spoon of softened butter ; add ^2 can crab meat, chopped ; 1 
tablespoon lemon juice. Mix to a j^aste. Spread on thin slices 
of buttered brown bread. 

CRESS SANDWICHES. 

One bunch cress, j4 cup pecans, chopped fine. Mayon- 
naise to spread. 

Cut slices very thin and spread with peanut butter. 

KNOX GELATINE is economical— FOUR PINTS in each package. 



188 SANDWICHES 



JELLY SANDWICHES. 

Spread bread with any kind of jelly, add chopped nuts. 

Philadelphia cream cheese and Yz glass currant jelly ; mix 
well together. 

ONION SANDWICH. 

Soak Spanish onion in water ; drain well. Salt, and juice 
of lemon squeezed on slices. 

TEA SANDWICHES. 

Spread thin slices of brown bread with butter, then with 
cottage cheese, mixed with chopped nuts. 

Mrs. Jerome K. Stock. 

TOMATO SANDWICHES. 

Toast bread, put slices of tomato, slightly salted, between, 
and bacon, fried crisp, on top. 

Brown bread with cucumbers sliced, salt, mayonnaise, if 
desired. 

Brown bread spread with cream cheese. Add either plain 
or stuffed olives, chopped. 

Butter thin slices brown bread, sprinkle with celery salt. 
Chop English walnuts and celery in equal parts, very fine. 
Mix with enough mayonnaise to spread easily. 



3x\x\X ^an&mtrl|^a 

DATE SANDWICHES. 

Chop dates and preserved ginger ; moisten with lemon 
juice and cream. English walnuts or pecans may be added. 

ORIENTAL SANDWICHES. 

Spread cream cheese on buttered bread ; next a layer of 
chopped dates ; sprinkle with chopped peanuts. 

RAISIN SANDWICHES. 

One and one-half cup raisins ; ^ cup English walnuts. 
Put through chopper. Butter bread generously before putting 
in filling. 

KNOX GELATINE is the one dessert for all appetites. 



Set Friday Aside 

AND come to the All Day Work Meeting. The 
W^omen's Association needs you to help make these 
meetings pleasant and profitable. 

Your "Bit", large or small, will add just that something 
which will help anc^ther. 

The 1 o'clock Luncheon of dainty things, away from 
home, will be a distinctive treat. Business meeting at 2:30. 

Brewster Congregational Church 

Trumbull and Warren Aves. 



MEMORANDUM 



189 



dan&t^a 



Sweets both rare and of simple kind 
On this page of goodies yon U find. 

— M. K. C. 

¥ 

RULES FOR CANDYMAKING. 

1. Never cook candy in tin. 

2. Cool in a cool, dry place — not in the refrigerator. 

3. Butter, when used, should be put in when candy is 
nearly done. 

4. Flavors are more delicate when not boiled in candy, 
but added afterwards. 

5. Cream of tartar should be dissolved in a little v/aler, 
and not added until sugar begins to boil. 

6. Try candy often and carefully. 

DIVINITY FUDGE. 

Two cups sugar, ^ cup Karo, ^4 cup water, whites of 2 
eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, ^ cup chopped nut meats, i/< \h. dates 
stoned and cut fine. Cook sugar, karo and water until crisp 
when tried in cold water. Beat the whites of the eggs on a 
large platter and pour syrup slowly on them, beating the whole 
until it begins to harden. Add vanilla, nuts and dates. Spread 
quite thick on a shallow, buttered dish. When cool cut in 
squares. Helen M. Hartmann. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE. 

Two cups sugar, ^ cup milk, ^ cup Karo; place on fire 
and add 1}4 squares bitter chocolate. Boil until mixture 
makes soft ball in cold water, stirring all the time. Remove 
from fire ; when cool, beat until thick and creamy ; add 2 table- 
spoons butter, vanilla and 1 cup chopped nuts, if desired. 
When thick put on buttered dish and mark in cubes. 

Eva Newton. 

CREAM CANDY. 

One quart granulated sugar, 1 pint water, butter size of 
egg, little cream of tartar flavoring. Boil until it almost snaps 
in cold water. Pour into buttered dish and when cool pull ; 
add vanilla while pulling. Cut in pieces when white. 

Mrs. G. E. McKean. 

KNOX GELATINE solves the problem of "What to have for 

dessert?" 



CANDIES 191 

TAFFY. 

Three cups light brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cu' 
water. ^^ teaspoon cream tartar, Dutter size of walnut. Boil 
until it hardens in cold water and pull until white. 

Jennie Durst. 

MAPLE PUFFS. 

One-half lb. maple sugar, ^ lb. brown sugar, whites of 2 
eggs, 1 cup English walnuts, ^^ cup chopped figs, ^ cup chop- 
ped citron, >< cup raisins, >4 cup water. Boil water and sugar 
until they spin a heavy thread. Beat the whites of eggs very 
stifif ; gradually add hot syrup to whites, beating all the time. 
When mixture begins to stiffen add other ingredients. Beat 
until thick and creamy. Mrs. G. E. McKean. 

FRENCH DAINTIES (CANDY). 

2 envelopes Knox Acidulated 1>^ cups boiling water 

Gelatine 1 cup cold water 

4 cups granulated sugar. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water five minutes. Add the 
boiling water. When dissolved add the sugar and boil slowly 
for fifteen minutes. Divide into two equal parts. When some- 
what cooled add to one part one-half teaspoonful of the Lemon 
Flavor found in separate envelope, dissolved in one tablespoon- 
ful water, and one tablespoonful lemon extract. To the other 
part add one-half teaspoonful extract of cloves, and color with 
the pink color. Pour into shallow tins that have been dipped 
in cold water. Let stand over night; turn out and cut into 
squares. Roll in fine granulated or powdered sugar and let 
stand to crystallize. Vary by using diflferent flavors and colors, 
and adding chopped nuts, dates or figs. 

PUFFED RICE BALLS. 

1 cup Karo maple syrup 2 tablespoons vinegar 
1 cup water Butter size of walnut 

1 cup sugar ^ teaspoon soda 

Boil until it threads then pour over puflFed rice and form 
into bal'ls. Enough for 1 package puffed rice. 

Mrs. R. J. Grier. 



KNOX GELATINE is measured ready for use — each package is 
divided into two envelopes. 



Mnuspliitlti Btttta 

Adany a catastropJie is avoided by dint 
Of just a helpful, little hint. 

— M. K. C. 
¥ 

Put alternate layers of drief beef with escalloped po- 
tatoes. 

Equal parts of currant and red raspberry juice make a de- 
licious jelly. 

Cracker and bread crumbs used in covering the tops of 
scallops, etc., should be well greased with melted butter. This 
makes a better covering than the dry crumbs dotted with but- 
ter, and uses less of the butter. 

Bread crumbs should always be used for covering articles 
for frying, as cracker crumbs absorb the grease. 

Three-fourths lb. of coffee will make I gallon ; 1 gallon 
will make 25 cups. 

One gallon of ice cream, if served on plate, will serve 24 
persons ; if in sherbet glasses, 30, 

Two quarts of chicken salad will serve 12 persons. 

On large loaf of bread will make 20 three cornered sand- 
wiches. 

One quart of oysters, creamed, will fill 12 large pattie 
shells. 

One and one-half lbs. of salted nuts will serve 25 people. 

One pint of flour made up in baking powder biscuits will 
make from 12 to 15, according to the size of the cutter. 

When through frying ,add a pared potato cut in slices to 
the fat and let it cook slowly until the potato has browned. 
Strain fat through cheesecloth. Clarified in this way, the fat 
may be used indefinitely. 

A slice of stale bread tied in muslin, placed in top of cab- 
bage when cooking, is excellent for absorbing the disagree- 
able odor. 

Use KNOX GELATINE if you would be sure of results. • 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 193 

SOAP. 

Melt 5^ lbs. grease. Dissolve 1 can of concentrated lye 
in 1 quart of water. Add to this 1 cup of borax, 1 cup of am- 
monia. When the grease is cool, before it thickens, pour in 
the lye slowly and beat for 1 minute. When it begins to 
thicken pour into a dripping pan to mold. When hard enough 
cut into squares. 

Use old dishes, as the lye will ruin good ones. 

COLD CREAM. 

Melt Yz lb. mutton suet. Strain. To 2 cups of hot tallow 
add 1 oz. camphor gum, pulverized, 2 ozs. glycerine. Beat 
until creamy. 

HAND LOTION. 

To four parts of hay rum, 1 part glycerine, 1 part soap 
liniment. 

FOR GARNISHING. 

Take round chocolate candy, stick almonds for petals in 
flower shape. 



Nozv all good things must have an end, 
So there's no need of further looking; 

For this completes our book, dear friend, 
And zve will leave you to your cooking. 

— M. K. C. 



Page 

Beverages 183 

Bread, Biscuits, Etc 151 

Cakes 105 

Candies 190 

Chafing Dishes 181 

Cheese Dishes 165 

Cookies 136 

Desserts 71 

Eggs 161 

FilHngs and Frostings 133 

First Course Dishes 5 

Fish 13 

Fried Cakes 136 

Fritters 43 

Frozen Desserts 99 

Ginger Bread 136 

Hints on Cake Making 132 

Household Hints 192 

Jellies 175 

Marmalades •. 175 

Marguerites 136 

Meats and Fish Sauces 40 

Meats and Poultry 21 

Meats and Relishes 38 

Oysters 19 

Pancakes 41) 

Pastry 71 

Pickles, Catsups and Relishes 167 

Pineapple Glace 45 

Salads 59 

Salad Dressings 67 

Sandwiches 185 

Soups 9 

Stuffing 37 

Time Tables for Cooking .' . 38, 39, 57 

Vegetables 47 

Waffles 43 



¥ 

Page 

Ac-i . i-ife Insurance C\)mpany 66 

Bedell. (J-or.tje, Meats 31 

Brossoit, H., Tailor 96 

Burvoi 1 !at Shop 87 

Central Electric Company 20 

Collard, A. P.. Plumbing and Heating 31 

Cowley, I''. W.. Upholstery and Mattress Making 121 

Davis, George W., Florist 134 

Dennen Book Shop 31 

Detroit Baking Company 7!) 

Detroit Laundry 14 

Detroit and Northern Michigan lUiilding and Loan Asso- 
ciation 48 

Dime Bank 150 

Flach Hardware Company 1 74 

Guilloz, S. J. and Son, Heating and Ventilating 121 

Henkel's Flour 113 

Hill, A. P., Druggist 14 

Holsheke, The C. B. Co., Photographer 25 

Horton-Cato Mfg. Co 58 

Hughes, \Vm.. Pluml:)ing and Ideating 72 

Keller, Robt., Lik Company 79 

Kelvinator Corporation 58 

Knoor & Cook 58 

Langley, Chas. H., (Jrocer 174 

Lowrie & Robinson Lumber Company 164 

Martha Washington Candies 96 

Michigan Tent & Awning Company 96 

Mills Baking Company 42 

Moeller, \\m., Dry Goods 121 

Newton I'acking Company. Meats 36 

Norbro .Shop 87 

Palmer, PI. H.. Decorator 8 

Pioneer Laundry Com])any 25 

I'otter & Armstrong, I'uneral Directors 164 

Kisdon Creamery 31 

Rollins Co., Furs 134 



AlJoprttBrra* 3nbrx ( (Continue J>) 

¥ 

Page 

Royal Baking Powder 104 

Schlaff Creamery Co., The John 160 

Seely's Extracts 72 

Snyder, Wm. A., Funeral Director 46 

Stock, Jerome K., Florist 46 

Strasburg, Max 87 

Stroud, Michael 184 

Telfer Coffee Company 184 

Thomas Brothers 8 

Titcombe Brothers, Moving 73 

Uelsman, Chas. Jr., Grocer 25 

Van Wyck, Miss Nancy 42 

Victory Cafe 72 

Vogue Hat Shop 160 

Vorpagel, George, Meats 174 

Warren, Chas. W. & Company, Jewelers 8 

Warrick, George P 134 

Wayne County and Home Savings Bank 20 

Weaver, C. A., Drugs 8 

Webster Lumber Company 4 

Woodward Hardware Company 160 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 481 231 1 



