photocopy only if necessary 



do not put in bookdrop 




THE HEALTH OF THE 
INDUSTRIAL WORKER 



THE HEALTH OF 
THE INDUSTRIAL WORKER 






BY 



EDGAR L. COLLIS, 



B.Ch., ALA., M.D. (Oxox.), M.R.C.P. (Lox.), AI.R.C.S. (Ex.,.) 

Manx?' Tnlltnt rrnfexxor of Preventive M>"/iri,,,', \\'elxh XutiniKil School of Mnli-'inf: Mnnhf.r Of 

linlnstrifi.1 Fat in n <: R'xmn-h Hoard; Late H.M. Medical Inspector of Factories ; Member of 

Health of Munition Workers Committee; Milroy Lecturer, R.C.P. (1915); Director of 

Welfare and Health, Ministry of Munitions 

AND 

MAJOR GREENWOOD, 

M.R.C.P. (Lox.), M.R.C.S. (Exo.) 

Member of Industrial Fnti</ne Restarch Board; Reader in Medical Statistics, University of 

London ; late Statistician to Lister Institute ; Head of Medical Research Branch, Ministry 

of Munitions; Arris and <!ale Lecturer, R.i'.S. (1908) 



CONTAINING A CHAPTER ON 



RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 



ARTHUR J. COLLIS, 

ALA., ALL). (CAXTAB.), M.R.C.S. (Exo.), D.P.H. (DUKH.) 

Medical Superintendent, Ministry of Pensions Hospital, Leiceste 
late Temp. Lieut.-Col. R.A.M.C. 



WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY 

SIR GEORGE NEWMAN, 

K.C.B., D.C.L., AI.D., F.R.C.P 





LONDON 

J. & A. CHURCHILL 

7 GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET 
JL921 



The best way of arriving at a theory of disease is by 
beginning with the theory of health." 

(H. T. BUCKLE, History of Civilisation 
in England, Vol. 2, Ch. 1.) 



THIS BOOK IS 



BY PERMISSION 
TO 

THE FIRST MINISTER OF HEALTH 
THE RIGHT HON. CHRISTOPHER ADDISON, 

M.D., F.R.C.S., M.P. 



\ 



AUTHORS' PREFACE 

MANY and valuable books exist which describe diseases 
peculiar to certain occupations and the means by which these 
diseases may be prevented or relieved ; the literature of the 
general hygiene of industry is less satisfying. No book is 
known to us which deals at all adequately from the standpoint 
of hygiene with the profound changes in the lives of civilised 
people during the past century and a half consequent upon the 
rise and development of modern industry. 

Vast and varied erudition is needed to rise to the height of so 
great an argument, vaster and more varied than is at our com- 
mand ; we do not suggest that the present volume fills the gap 
which exists. Nevertheless, each of us has had to deal with 
problems of industrial hygiene from his particular point of view 
and has used methods of investigation which his particular way 
of life or habit of mind rendered accessible. We hope, there-, 
fore, we may not be too presumptuous in thinking that our 
joint work may suggest to others lines of fruitful inquiry and 
perhaps be of value to the novice. 

We believe that at least we have made plain how great is 
the influence of employment upon general health ; how many are 
the opportunities presented in industry for studying conditions 
which lead up to divergencies from health, divergencies which 
when neglected pass into diseases ; how ready to hand are means 
for improving the workaday life of the productive classes ; 
and how important to the whole of preventive medicine are 
lessons learnt in the school of industrial hygiene. 

Valuable information has been published in recent years in 
Government publications and scientific papers which for the 
most part are not readily accessible to those for whom this 
book has been prepared ; the extent to which these sources 
of information have been freely laid under contribution is 
indicated in the text. 

We take this opportunity of expressing our thanks and 
gratitude to the Right Hon. Christopher'Addison, the first Minister 
of Health, for accepting the dedication of this book ; to Sir 
George Newman, Chairman of the Health of Munition Workers 
Committee and the first Chief Medical Officer of the Ministry of 
Health, for writing the introduction ; and, for valuable help 



viii AUTHORS' PREFACE 

and assistance, to Miss A.M. Anderson, Principal Lady Inspector 
of Factories, Mr. G. Bellhouse, Deputy Chief Inspector of 
Factories, Dr. A. J. Collis (author of the last chapter), Mr. Leon 
Caster, Mr. R. E. Graves, Chief Inspector of Factories, Dr. H. S. 
Hele Shaw, Mr. Higgins, Canteen Committee, Central Control 
Board (Liquor Traffic), Dr. C. S. Myers, Mr. E. A. Rusher, 
Investigator to Industrial Fatigue Research Board, Mr. G. 
Stevenson Taylor, Inspector for Dangerous Trades, Mr. W. W. 
Ware, Mines Department, Home Office, and Mr. D. R. Wilson, 
Secretary to Industrial Fatigue Research Board. 

E. L. C. 
M. G. 



CONTENTS 



PART I 



CHAPTER I 
INDUSTRY AND HEALTH A RETROSPECT 

I. Introduction ........ 

II. The State and Industrial Health .... 

III. Industrial Conditions preceding the Eighteenth Century 

IV. The Eighteenth Century . . . . 
V. Industry and Epidemic Disease . . . 

VI. Effect of Employment of Children .... 
VII. Bibliography ....... 



PAGE 

1 

4 

5 

8 

11 

14 

18 



CHAPTER II 
REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

I. Introduction . 

II. Ordinance of Labourers 

III. Statute of Apprentices 

IV. Truck Acts . 
V. Chimney-sweeps 

VI. Health and Morals of Apprentices Act 

VII. Controversy . 

VIII. 1819-31 

IX. A Sidelight . 

X. 1833-53 

XI. 1855-78 

XII. 1883-1901 . 

XIII. 1903 and later 

XIV. A Retrospect 
XV. Bibliography 

XVI. Appendix 



19 
21 
21 
23 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
31 
35 
37 
39 
41 
41 



CHAPTER III 

THE UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS IN 
INDUSTRIAL PREVENTIVE MEDICINE 



I. Introduction . 

II. Longevity 

III. Life Tables . 

IV. Mortality 

V. Methods of Standardisation 

VI. Probable Error 

VII. Reliability of Data 

VIII. Proportionate Mortality . 

IX. Morbidity 

X. Bibliography 



45 
46 
50 
52 
52 
57 
58 
60 
64 
65 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER IV 

THE EFFECTS OF INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT UPON 
HEALTH AS INDICATED BY VITAL STATISTICS 

PAGE 

I. Pioneer Work 66 

II. Returns of Friendly Societies . . . . . .66 

III. Manchester Unity Investigation . . . . .68 

IV. Index of Trade Mortality 71 

V. Difficulties of Estimating Effect of Occupation on Mortality 72 

VI. Result of using Brownlee's Method ..... 74 

VII. Relation between Industrial Mortality and Social Unrest . 75 

VIII. Morbidity 77 

IX. Bibliography 78 



PART IT 

CHAPTER V 

INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

I. Introduction . . . . . . . . .79 

II. Definition . 80 

III. The Animal Body considered as a Machine ... 80 

IV. The Site of Fatigue 83 

Neuro -muscular Mechanism ..... 83 
Central Nervous System ...... 85 

Mental Fatigue 86 

Practice Effect 87 

V. Chemistry of Activity . . . . . . .87 

VI. Metabolism and Rhythm ...... 89 

VII. Indications of Fatigue . . . . . . .91 

Means of Measurement . . . . . .91 

Direct Tests 92 

Indirect Tests 93 

Output . . . . . . .93 

Lost Time and Sickness .... 99 

Labour Turnover . . . . .104 

Industrial Accidents ..... 105 

VIII. Influences Contributing to Industrial Fatigue . . . 108 
Hours of Labour ....... 109 

Conditions of Employment . . . . .116 

Ventilation . . . . . . .116 

Temperature . . . . . . .117 

Lighting . . . . . . . .118 

Methods of Work 118 

IX. Bibliography . 123 

CHAPTER VI 
TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 

I. Epidemiology . . . . . . . .126 

Predisposition and Infection . . . . .126 

Effect of Poverty . . . . . . .127 

Decline of Tuberculosis . . . . . .128 

Male and Female Mortality . . . . .131 

Occupation and Male Mortality . . . .134 

Types of Phthisis . . . . . . .138 

Phthisis and Environment . . . . . 140 

Summary ........ 141 



CONTENTS 



XI 



II. Adverse Influences . . . 

Influences of Ventilation . 
Influence of Diet . . 
Eugenic Aspect . 

III. Prevention, Detection, and Treatment 

Industry . . . 
Prevention . 
Detection . 
Industrial Treatment 
Spittoons . 

IV. Bibliography .... 



in Kelation to 



PAGE 
143 
143 
144 
145 

146 
146 
147 
147 
151 
152 



CHAPTER VII 
CANCER AND INDUSTRY 

I. Increase in Cancer Mortality . . . . . .155 

II. Cancer and Civilisation . . . . . . .155 

III. Effect of Modern Civilisation on the Life of the People . 160 

IV. Cancer and Social Status . . . . . .161 

V. Cancer and Industrialisation . . . . . .162 

VI. Cancer in Occupations ....... 167 

VII. Bibliography 175 



CHAPTER VIII 

CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 

I. Causation of Accidents . . . 

Industrial Accidents .... 

The Human Factor .... 

Reaction to Environmental Influences. 

(a) Fatigue . . . - . 

(6) Psychical Influences 

(c) Lighting .... 

(d) Temperature 
The Personal Factor 
New Workers . 

General Conclusion ..... 
II. Prevention of Accidents ..... 
Observation and Research 

" A priori" Reasoning- 
Administration ..... 

How to Minimise Risk 

How to Reduce Personal Lack of Interest 

Safety Committees .... 

Safety First 

Suggestion Box .... 

Susceptibility ..... 
A Duty for the Medical Profession 
III. Bibliography ...... 



176 
177 

183 
189 
191 
193 
193 
193 
195 
201 
202 
204 
204 
204 
206 
206 
206 
206 
207 
207 
208 
208 
209 



CHAPTER IX 
INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

I. Introduction ....... 

II. Place of Women in Historic Times . 
III. Lack of Morbidity and Mortality Data 



211 
212 
217 



Xll 



CONTENTS 



IV. Physical Capacity . 

Strength 

Athletic Capacity 

Lack of Training 

Liability to Hernia . . 

Liability to Fatigue 
V. Physiological Characteristics . 

The Blood .... 

Varicose Veins 

Nutrition . . . 

Menstruation .... 

Anaemia and Digestive Disturbances 

Respiration .... 

Shock . . . . . 

Maternity .... 

General Resistance to Disease . 
VI. Psychological Aptitude 

The Brain .... 

Psycho -neuroses 

Industrial Experience 

Effect of Woman on Industry . 
VII. Other Considerations 
VIII. Summary .... 
IX. Conclusion . 
X. Bibliography .... 



PAGE 
219 
220 
221 
222 
222 
222 
223 
223 
224 
224 
225 
227' 
228 
228 
229 
231 
233 
233 
234 
236 
237 
238 
239 
240 
241 



PART III 

CHAPTER X 
THE FEEDING OF THE INDUSTRIAL WORKER 

I. Introduction ......... 243 

II. Energy Value of Food 244 

Energy Value of Diets ...... 244 

Industrial Expenditure of Energy .... 247 

Energy Requirements and Wages .... 249 

Importance of a Diet Sufficient in Energy . . .251 

III. The Importance of the Constituents of a Dietary . . 252 

IV. Effect of Climate and Occupation upon Diet . . . 253 
V. The Importance of Food Accessory Factors (Vitamines) . 255 

Fat-soluble A 256 

Water-soluble B .... 256 

Anti- scorbutic Factor ...... ^257 

Origin of Vitamines ....... 257 

Vitamines in Workers' Food ..... 257 



CHAPTER XI 

FOOD AT THE FACTORY 



I. Introduction . 
II. Facilities Provided 
III. Canteen Premises . 
Site 

Extent . . . 
Service . 
Payment 

Canteen Suggestion Box 
Reading Box . 
Tea Trolleys . 



259 
260 
261 
261 
261 
262 
263 
263 
263 
263 



CONTENTS 



Xlll 



IV. Canteen Management 

Canteen Committee 
Finance 
The Manager . 
V. The Menu 
VI. Finally . 
VII. Bibliography 



PAGE 
264 
264 
264 
264 
265 
267 
267 



CHAPTER XII 

THE USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY THE INDUSTRIAL 
WORKER 

I. Introduction ........ 

II. Physiological Effect of Alcohol .... 

III. Psycho -physiological Results ..... 

IV. Rise of the Spirit-drinking Habit .... 
V. Contrast between Industrial and Convivial Drinking . 

VI. The Charm of Alcohol 

VII. Conclusion ........ 

VIII. Bibliography 



271 
271 

272 
274 
276 
278 
279 
279 



I. 

II. 



III. 



IV. 
V. 



I. 
U. 



CHAPTER XIII 
REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

Introduction ....... 

The Air 

(i.) Chemical Composition .... 

Respiratory Exchange 

Carbon Dioxide as a Measure of Ventilation 
(ii.) Physical Properties .... 

Temperature . . . . . 

Humidity ..... 

Movement ..... 

(iii.) Impurities ...... 

Germs . . . . 

Inorganic Particles .... 

Methods of Ventilation ..... 

(a) General Ventilation .... 

Natural Means ..... 

Mechanical Means .... 

Ventilation by Extraction . 
Ventilation by Impulsion or Plenum . 
(&) Localised Exhaust Ventilation 

Removal of Dust . . . . 

Removal of Heated Fumes 

Removal of Volatile Vapours 

Air Inlets ..... 

Faults to Avoid .... 

Types of Fan ..... 

Maintenance ..... 

Respirators ....... 

Bibliography ...... 

\ 

CHAPTER XIV 



LIGHTING 



Effect upon General Health 
Effect upon Eyesight 
Glare 



281 
282 
283 
283 
286 
287 
287 
288 
291 
296 
298 
300 
301 
301 
301 
303 
304 
306 
308 
308 
309 
310 
310 
310 
311 
311 
311 
312 



314 
315 
316 



XIV 



CONTENTS 



III. Insufficient Light . 

IV. Influence of Light on the Occurrence of Industrial Accidents 
V. Economic Value of Illumination ..... 

VI. The Measurement of Illumination .... 

VII. Natural Lighting 

VIII. Artificial Lighting ....... 

General Illumination . ... 

Local Illumination ....... 

IX. Standards of Illumination ... . 

X. Bibliography ........ 



PAGE 
317 
317 
319 
320 
322 
325 
325 
326 
328 
330 



CHAPTER XV 

WASHING ACCOMMODATION SANITARY ACCOMMODATION DRINKING 
WATER WORKING CLOTHES CLOAK ROOMS SEATS 



II. 



Ill 



IV. 



V. 
VI. 



VII. 
VIII. 



Washing Accommodation 
Introduction . 
The Need 
The Standard . 
What to Provide 

Basins and Troughs 
Soap 

Nail Brushes 
Towels 

Bathing Facilities . 
Douche Baths . 
Cubicles . 
Cleaning . 
Water 

Soap and Towels 
Drying of Clothes 
Maintenance . 
Sanitary Accommodation 
Construction . 
The Standard . 
Drinking Water 

The Standard . 
Drinking Fountains . 
Working Clothes . 
For Women 
For Men 
Cloak Rooms 
Seats .... 
Seats for Rest 
Seats for Work 
Bibliography 
Appendix 



331 
331 
334 
335 
336 
336 
337 
337 
337 
338 
338 
338 
338 
339 
340 
340 
340 
341 
341 
341 
343 
344 
344 
344 
346 
346 
346 
347 
348 
349 
353 
353 



PART IV 



CHAPTER XVI 

LABOUR TURNOVER OR INDUSTRIAL WASTAGE 

I. Introduction ....... 

II. Effect of Labour Turnover . . ... 

III. Methods of Investigating Industrial Wastage 

IV. The Value of Investigation .... 



360 
362 
363 
368 



CONTENTS 



xv 



V. Prevention of Industrial Wastage 
Selection of Workers 
Care of the Employed 
VI. Bibliography 



P1GE 

374 
374 
375 
376 



CHAPTER XVII 
SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

I. Introduction ....... 

II. Medical Supervision ..... 

The Origin of the Certifying Factory Surgeon 
Present Duties ..... 

Recent Development .... 

Possibilities of the Factory Medical Officer. 

III. The Factory Nurse 

The Ambulance Room .... 
First Aid Organisation .... 

IV. The Welfare Superintendent .... 

Obtaining the Personnel .... 

Maintenance of Health .... 

Health Committee ..... 

Dismissal ...... 

Staff Required ..... 

V. The Dental Clinic 

VI. Bibliography ...... 



377 
377 
378 
379 
383 
384 
388 
390 
393 
399 
401 
401 
404 
404 
405 
405 
407 



CHAPTER XVIII 
RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

I. Introduction ........ 

II. The Extent of the Need 

III. Development due to the War . . 

Artificial Limbs ...... 

Functional Re-education . . 

Medical Disablement ..... 

Occupational Training ..... 

IV. Re-education ....... 

Psychological Influences ..... 

The Left Hand 

V. Surgical Disabilities of the Limbs .... 

Ankylosis and Stiffness of the Shoulder Joint 

Ankylosis of Elbow Joint . _ . 

Flail Elbow Joint ...... 

Ununited Fractures of Arm .... 

Limitation of Pronation and Supination of Forearm 

The Hand 

Ankylosis of Hip Joint ..... 

Ankylosis of Knee Joint ..... 

Ununited Fractures of Femur .... 

VI. Stumps ........ 

VII. Artificial Limbs 

The Leg 

The Arm 

The Hand . . . 

VIII. Fitting the Work to the Worker .... 
IX. Occupations for the Crippled ..... 
X. Disablement from Nerve Injuries .... 
XI. Defective Vision 



408 
408 
410 
410 
411 
411 
412 
413 
413 
414 
415 
415 
416 
416 
416 
417 
417 
417 
417 
418 
418 
419 
419 
420 
420 
420 
421 
426 
427 



XVI 



CONTENTS 



XII. Defective Hearing 

XIII. Functional Nerve Disorders 

XIV. Disablement by Disease 

Tuberculosis . 
Heart Cases 
Sick-pay Difficulties 
Value of Occupation 
Industrial Training 
Home Industries 
XV. Bibliography 



PAGE 
429 
431 
432 
433 
433 
434 
435 
435 
437 
437 



INTRODUCTION 

IN recent years we have learned that the public health is not 
only a matter of the postponement of mortality and the preven- 
tion of sickness, but of the positive side of health the increase 
of vitality, capacity and efficiency of the human body. Our 
aim is not only to oppose disease but to advance and develop 
physical fitness and well-being. To secure this end we must 
have regard to the whole life of man his heredity and upbring- 
ing, his work and rest, his food, his habits, his environment. 
We must pay attention not only to his actual ailments and 
diseases, but to the conditions making for a maximum degree 
of personal health. Thus it comes about that a new relation 
is found to exist between occupation and health. In a word, the 
health of the industrial worker forms an integral and inseparable 
part of the health of the community. 

When we come to consider in what way and to what degree 
we can improve the health of the industrial worker we shall find 
that a fourfold problem awaits us. Accidents loom large in the 
laymen's view of industrial disability, and well they may, for 
in sum total they are extremely numerous and many of them 
are serious ; then every one knows that certain occupations, 
apart altogether from the so-called " dangerous trades," lead 
to a liability to poisoning, disease and high mortality ; in the 
third place, not a few workmen, in adolescence or early adult life, 
are found to lack the physical capacity to undertake particular 
branches of labour ; and lastly, it is common knowledge that 
much " broken time " and absence from work occurs due to 
sickness, fatigue or invalidity due in their turn to a complex 
set of factors, most of which are controllable. Here then we 
have the outward sign of the health problem of the industrial 
worker. Whilst at first sight accidents, poisoning and a high 
occupational death rate are impressive, it cannot, I think, be 
doubted that the less dramatic side of the problem is, in fact, 
the more important namely, the lost time and incapacity due 
to ill-health. For this is so widely prevalent as to be almost 
universal, in all districts, at all ages, in all trades, there is this 
vast mass of wasted life and energy due for the most part to 
preventable maladies in their turn largely attributable to 
remediable conditions of industry or to the neglect of hygiene. 



xviii INTRODUCTION 

In this book, Professor Collis and Dr. Greenwood have furnished 
us with something of an interpretation and philosophy, some- 
thing of a new foundation, of the science and art of preventive 
medicine as applied to the industrial worker. They have 
brought together in small compass the principal items of the 
accumulated evidence of the many years' experience which this 
country has now had of the working of the Factory Acts, and 
their pages are full of practical suggestion and sound method 
not only for improving the health of the worker but for enabling 
him to render a fuller measure of industrial service to the com- 
munity. Both are fundamental issues, and it would be difficult 
to say which is the more important at the present juncture. It 
is certain we need to raise the whole standard of the health of 
the people to prevent disease and to develop the physique and 
well-being of the individual. It is not less certain that one of 
the supreme requirements of this country at the present time is 
a re-establishment of industry itself not alone with the object 
of increasing production, though that is imperative, but in the 
interest of the worker himself. We need not only more " goods " 
but better men and women more competent and efficient, with 
more energy, with greater love of their craft, with an ever- 
expanding capability of enjoyment in their labour. That is the 
general case for this book. 

But I have a further and more particular reason for com- 
mending it. I am convinced not only of the urgent necessity 
of its message, but, as it seems to me, the method of approach 
is significant. In the first place, I think we shall only obtain 
a true understanding of the facts and findings of industrial 
hygiene as they are presented to us in relation to the whole 
history of the evolution of this subject in England. Our record 
is a remarkable one from the beginning of the Industrial Revolu- 
tion to the present day. It is a longer chapter of experience 
and experiment in State aid than that of any other country, 
and we can only reach sound conclusions if we give them the 
correct historical setting. Again, the crucial matters hours of 
labour and their distribution, the effect of personal welfare, the 
effect of the occupation itself, and nutrition find a place in the 
front rank of the subjects dealt with in this book, and thus the 
approach is personal rather than by external sanitation, impor- 
tant though that is. Thirdly, there is brought into bold relief 
the place, socially and economically, of the employment of 
women ; and lastly, this book almost breathes with the spirit 
of the solidarity of industrial society, the interdependence 
between employer and employee, the status, wages, equipment 
and surroundings of the worker in relation to his health and that 



INTRODUCTION xix 

of his fellow men. Nor must we allow ourselves to forget that 
true solidarity has an immensely important psychological 
aspect. We are always brought back, as I think we should be, 
to the broad fact that the most economical production is obtained 
by employing a man only while he is at his best in mind and body, 
and under circumstances in which he can yield his maximum 
output of both. We have been, and still are, wasteful of our 
workers. We do not seem to see that it is sound business, what 
is called a commercial proposition, to safeguard the health and 
capacity of the workman neither by fussy regulation nor pam- 
pering, but by sensible observance of the facts and teachings of 
physiological science. * In short, physical health is the funda- 
mental basis. In their report on Industrial Health and Efficiency, 
the Health of Munition Workers Committee laid their emphasis 
on this point. : ' There must be," they said, " a proper distribu- 
tion of function of labour, a correct understanding of the part 
played by nutrition, by rest, by fatigue, by health conditions, 
if waste is to be avoided and maximum energy attained. The 
human being is a finely adjusted physiological instrument, 
which must no longer be wasted, much less destroyed, by 
ignorant or wilful misuse. A working man's capital is, as a rule, 
his health and his capacity to perform a full day's work. Once 
that is impaired or damaged beyond recuperation two things 
happen. First, his whole industrial outlook is jeopardised and 
he becomes by rapid stages a liability and even a charge on the 
State. Secondly, if the bodily defence is undermined by stress 
and strain the man falls a ready prey to disease." Hence the 
result of neglect is a double loss, we lose the man to industry 
and he becomes a burden to others and not infrequently to the 
community ; and the effect of the double loss is impairment of 
the industrial and physical efficiency of the nation. There is 
great loss in treasure and national wealth ; there is greater loss 
still in national health. 

We have been the witnesses of much advance in public 
appreciation of these matters during the War and also some 
noteworthy progress in practice and application. We must 
now seek to secure the full advantage of these forward steps, 
and consolidate our gains and make them permanent. This 
book is an instrument to that end. 

GEORGE NEWMAN. 



PART I 



CHAPTER I 

INDUSTRY AND HEALTH A RETROSPECT 

I. Introduction. II. The State and Industrial Health. III. Industrial 
Conditions Preceding the Eighteenth Century. IV. The Eighteenth 
Century. V. Industry and Epidemic Disease. VI. Effect of Employ- 
ment of Children. VII. Bibliography. 

I. Introduction. 

WHAT industry is and what it means, what it exists for, and 
what its responsibilities are, will be explained differently accord- 
ing to the aspect from which it is viewed. A row of observers 
may declare and declare truly that a prism upon which 
light is falling appears to this one to be blue, to the next to be 
green, to another to be yellow and to a fourth red. Each 
observer may differ stoutly from his neighbour even to the point 
of quarrelling ; yet each is right from his limited outlook. So 
industry bears a different aspect as seen from economic, social 
or medical points of view. This book is frankly concerned only 
with the medical aspect ; if economists and socialists should 
happen to read and disagree with the views presented, then let 
them recall the simile of the prism and the possibility of the 
medical aspect being correct as well as their own. 

Some grasp of what industry means for mankind and of its 
relation to civilisation is required before its relation to the 
health of the community can be seen in true perspective. 
" Industry " is a word to-day generally applied only to physical 
work connected with some particular form or branch of pro- 
ductive labour or with some trade or manufacture. Productive 
labour and manufactures represent man's effort to modify his 
environment to his needs ; they represent the activities which 
distinguish man from other animals activities which are one 
of the products of his intelligence. Man's intelligence is mani- 
fested in other ways, but in no other way do its manifestations 
so differentiate man from the rest of the animal kingdom. 
Huxley, it is true, maintained that tc other things being alike, 
the tribe of savages in which order was best maintained, in which 
there was most security within the tribe and most loyal support 
outside it, would be the survivors " in the struggle for existence. 



2 INDUSTRY AND HEALTH A RETROSPECT 

But such mutual protection, evidence though it is of intelligence, 
can be paralleled in the wolf-pack, the bee-hive or ant life. 
Valuable indeed though mutual protection is, especially when 
directed by intelligence, it is not the fundamental difference 
between man and other animals, it is not that distinctive value 
of intelligence which distinguishes industrious man from the 
busy politicians of the Bandarlog, and has raised the more 
intelligent races above their competitors. That value depends 
upon the capacity his intelligence has conferred upon man 
for carrying on productive labour and manufacture. These 
are man's distinctive activities ; as they have multiplied 
simultaneously with his developing intelligence, so do we find 
his social organisation becoming more complex. 

The mental capacity ascribed to different races of pre-historic 
man has been classified according to the evidence of manufac- 
turing skill which have come down to us chiefly in the form of 
flint instruments. Mortillet, applying this rule to palaeolithic 
man claims that these instruments, at first few in number and 
rude in workmanship, became more varied in form and of finer 
finish as the human skulls with which they are found associated 
had a greater brain capacity and more closely conformed in 
shape to those of historic man. Industry may be considered as 
an outward and visible sign of the progress of human intelligence ; 
and the milestones along the road the stone age, the bronze 
age, the iron age, the machinery age gather additional interest 
when considered as stages in the evolution of mind. 

At each step the value of industry to the race has been the 
provision of better and better means for ensuring increased 
safety and a healthier life ; increased safety through the pro- 
duction of weapons of offence or defence for dealing with wild 
animals, or for conducting warfare with other human beings ; a 
healthier life through the production of food or of other means, 
such as clothes, for combating the forces of nature. The state- 
ment may be made that the intelligence of a race is measured 
by its industry, and that the primary raison d'etre of industry is 
safety and health. In other words, industry is the means human 
intelligence employs to ensure the existence of the race ; and 
we may pause to ask with Berkeley, that greatest of querists. 
" whether the drift and aim of every wise state should not be 
to encourage industry in its members ? And whether those who 
employ neither heads nor hands for the common benefit deserve 
not to be expelled like drones from a well-governed state ? " 

The anthropologist is interested in the way in which industry 
has influenced the race, and will recall Herbert Spencer saying 
that the starting point of human progress was " localisation of 



PREHISTORIC INDUSTRY 3 

human industries " ; and that Sir Charles Lyell and Dr. Isaac 
Taylor have described such localisation in pre-historic factories 
for the manufacture of flint implements. From one of these 
factories, Grime's Graves, near Brandon, ascribed by Reginald 
Smith to the palaeolithic period, human remains are to-day in 
the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. By some irony 
of fate that earliest of industries was probably associated with 
the occurrence of disease among our pre-historic ancestors, as it 
is to-day among the flint knappers at Brandon ; these men 
suffer from silicosis, caused by inhaling flint dust, associated 
with a terrible mortality from tubercular silicosis (1). Localisa- 
tion of industries, which in nearly every case has been determined 
by geological considerations, has intimately affected the distri- 
bution of the race on the globe. The flint knapper established 
himself where suitable flints were to be found in abundance ; 
the shepherds and herdsmen naturally frequented the grassy 
upland pastures ; the corn and rice grower favoured the rich 
alluvial deposits of river lands ; the smelter of metals went 
where metallic ores and fuel occurred in association. Man, 
indeed, is found converting to his use what is of value in each 
locality for his industries ; but the way in which the climatology 
of each locality has reacted on his mentality, stimulated or 
retarded his activities, necessitated the development of in- 
dustries or permitted sloth, promoted or inhibited the course 
of progress, has been displayed by Buckle in his History of 
Civilisation (2). 

At a later stage indeed, not until within historic times man 
discovered how to employ mechanical power. First, lie made 
use of water power ; but this was sufficiently new even in the 
time of Cicero to cause Antipater to write this epigram : " Set 
not your hands to the mill, O women that turn the millstone ! 
Sleep sound though the cock's crow announce the dawn, for 
Ceres has charged the water-nymphs with the labours which 
employed your arms. These, dashing from the summit of a 
wheel, make its axle revolve, which, by the help of moving radii, 
sets in action the weight of four hollow mills. We taste anew 
the life of the first men, since we have learnt to enjoy, without 
fatigue, the produce of Ceres."* In the later Middle Ages in 
England " we hear occasionally of fulling mills, and of leases 
of mill-streams, which prove that the value of water-power was 
beginning to be realised. The mill-wheel of the forge in Bishop 
Langley's iron works (Durham) was worked by water-power ; 
' the stream was dammed and the water led up to a water- 
wheel by means of a stone trough or channel and wooden 

* Antipater of Thessalonica, ap. Bruck. Analecta Grceca, torn, ii., p. 119. 

13 



4 INDUSTRY AND HEALTH -A RETROSPECT 

pipes ' " (19). The factorial development of the textile industry 
depended primarily on water power ; and we find that " during 
the last twenty years or so of the eighteenth century, whilst the 
cotton industry was increasing by leaps and bounds, there were 
large mills or factories, built where water power was plentiful 
on country rivers, producing warp by means of Arkwright's 
water frames, whilst jennies and mules were producing the weft 
in dwelling houses or small establishments. Larger businesses, 
however, were gradually replacing the smaller, and steam power 
was also beginning to supplant water power " (24). Even 
to-day the influence of water power is still increasing. In this 
country the instance of great works for smelting aluminium at 
Kinlochleven can be quoted, while in America Niagara Falls 
have been harnessed to produce electric power ; and in Norway 
water power is similarly being used. 

The industrial utilisation of wind power was later than the 
exploitation of water, and never influenced the course and localisa- 
tion of industry to the same extent ; its indirect importance in 
facilitating transport was no doubt great, but this subject is 
beyond our scope. 

The most important modern changes have been associated 
with the use of coal as fuel ; and with what practically sprang 
out of the getting of coal, namely, the invention of the steam 
engine, evolved by James Watt from Newcomen's original water 
pump invented for draining coal mines. The progress of industry 
from this time forward is touched on later ; but sufficient has 
been said to establish the influences which throughout the ages 
industry has exerted upon human civilisation, in addition to 
that aspect with which we are particularly concerned, namely, 
safety and health. 

II. The State and Industrial Health. 

Industries exist from the State's point of view to promote the 
safety and health of the community. The State, that is to say, 
organised Government, exists for the same ends ; and industries 
are instruments for attaining these ends. Normally the margin 
of industrial elasticity is such that the existence of an intimate 
association is hardly appreciated, and industries may appear to 
be self-contained or individually controlled ; but during the 
great War when industrial activities became curtailed, the 
necessity became clear to all for the State, in the interests of the 
nation's safety and health, to assume definite control. 

Those who are employed in various industries are part of the 
community, for which collectively and individually the State is 



EARLY ENGLISH INDUSTRY 5 

responsible. The State has, therefore, to consider how the 
conditions of life necessitated by industries affect them ; and at 
the same time to estimate the value to the safety and health of 
the community as a whole of the products of their labour. Some 
industries expose the workers to risk of life and limb, and the 
State has to balance this risk to the individual against the benefit 
accruing to the whole community from the results of his work. 

The success of industries, the State's instruments for good, 
must depend in no small measure on the health of the workers ; 
for the productive labour of unhealthy workers is inferior to that 
of healthy workers ; yet the safety and health of all depend 
upon productive labour. The maintenance of healthy industries 
is then the State's first duty. As we shall now see, the duty has 
only been recognised within a period more than covered by the 
lives of many still living. 

III. Industrial Conditions preceding the Eighteenth Century. 

The Romans, during their occupation of Britain, established 
the manufacture of woollen clothing for their troops, of pottery, 
and also at least one military iron forge or fabrica (22, p. 7) ; 
but on their departure all was swept away, and for 900 years 
no great centres of industry and no factories existed. Now 
and again sprang up a very few notable, and apparently tem- 
porary, exceptions, such as the great clothier, "Jack of Newbury," 
who is said to have employed over 1,000 persons in the reign 
of Henry VII. ; but before the eighteenth century, industry 
as we know it did not exist in England. The only factories were 
the parish water-mills or wind-mills where corn was ground 
between stones brought from near Paris or Anderach on the 
Rhine. Craftsmen and artisans existed who followed definite 
occupations ; but the carpenter, mason, and smith, acting for 
several neighbouring villages, appear to have manipulated 
materials entrusted to them for the purpose ; brickmaking 
was a lost art till the middle of the fifteenth century ; coal 
mining awaited the coming of Watt. Only here and there was 
there any local industry ; in the thirteenth century " manu- 
factures of cloth are noted : scarlet at Lincoln ; blanket at 
Bligh ; burnet at Beverley ; russet at Colchester (eight weavers 
are enumerated at this town in the rolls of Parliament under the 
year 1301) ; produce of linen fabrics at Shaftesbury, Lewes and 
Aylesham ; of cord at Warwick and Bridport, the latter being 
also quoted for its hempen fabrics ; of fine bread at Wycombe, 
Hungerford, and St. Albans ; of knives at Maxstead ; of needles 
at Wilton ; of razors at Leicester. . . . On the other hand, the 



6 INDUSTRY AND HEALTH A RETROSPECT 

most populous an'd busy districts of our day were the fens and 
moors, scantily peopled by a rude race. Lancashire was one of 
the poorest English counties, as was also the West Riding of 
York. As late as the end of the seventeenth century, these two 
counties were nearly at the bottom of the list in opulence. 
Population was scanty in them, and wages low. The Mersey 
was still a silent estuary ; the Irwell a mountain stream. There 
were forges and cutlery works in Hallamshire, and Bradford 
was a cloth mart in early times. But the greater part of the 
district, now so densely inhabited, which lies within the circuit 
of twenty miles from Leeds, was occupied by wild animals and 
lawless men, the latter hardly kept in order by swift justice " (3). 
Our knowledge of the industries of the country in these later 
Middle Ages depends largely on the history of the Trade Guilds, 
from which capital and labour as they exist to-day evolved. 
We are not immediately concerned with this social and economic 
development, but only with the environment to which workers 
were then exposed ; probably the words of the simple but 
optimistic divine, Traherne, 

" Even trades themselves seen in celestial light, 
And care and sins and woes are bright," 

indicate the existence of a need at that time for some supernal 
interposition to render occupations acceptable to humanity. 

Even what industries existed were primitive, as may be gathered 
from the following pen picture (taken from The Tour of the 
Don, published in 1836) of the famous cutlery industry of 
Sheffield : ' They (the grinders) are nearly the only inhabitants 
of the valley, and they do not reside in it. There is scarcely a 
dwelling-house throughout the whole length of it. They are a 
rough, half-civilised class. Removed thus from the restrictions 
of society, and the observation of all authority, they associate 
only with each other. In summer, when the mountain streams 
which feed their infant river are almost dried up, they have not 
a supply of water to employ them half their time. As, however, 
it is uncertain when the uppermost dam will be sufficiently 
filled to enable the wheel to work, and to dismiss the fluid element 
to the expecting wheels below, they are under the necessity of 
being upon or near the place, to take advantage of the supply 
when it does arrive. At those times, groups of human beings 
may be seen near every wheel, which, taken with the surrounding 
scenery, form such subjects as are well fitted for the pencil of a 
Salvator, Athletic figures, with brown paper turbans, the 
sleeves of their shirts rolled high up, exposing their brawny arms, 
bare almost to the shoulders, their short jackets unbuttoned 



INDUSTRY IN THE MIDDLE AGES 7 

and their shirt collar open, displaying their broad, dark, hairy 
chests ; their short leather aprons, their breeches knees un- 
buttoned, and their stockings slipped down about their ankles, 
the whole tinged with ochre-coloured dust, so as to leave the 
different colours and materials faintly discoverable form a 
figure, when taken singly, sufficiently picturesque ; when 
grouped, and they generally are, they become strikingly so. You 
there see them, some seated on the stone-raised, turf-covered 
bench at the door, with their copious jug and their small pots, 
landing round the never-cloying English beer ; others reared 
up against the large round grinding-stones supported by the 
walls of the building ; others, again, seated on the same kind of 
stones, lying upon and against each other on the ground, whilst 
some are stretched at their length, dozing or contemplating, in 
the verdant sloping banks of the mill-dam ; some are amusing 
themselves with athletic exercises, and others are devising, or 
slyly engaged in executing, some rude practical jokes." 

Industries as we know them were non-existent ; factories and 
mines were yet to be ; and, " for five centuries and a half," says 
Thorold Rogers, " for fifteen or sixteen generations, there was no 
appreciable alteration in the conditions of these people. . . . 
The village weaver made homespun cloth from the hempen or 
woollen yarns a century ago as he did six centuries ago. The 
year witnessed the same unvaried round of occupation that it 
was when the third Henry was king. . . . Changes of dynasty, 
civil wars, changes in religion, had occurred without making a 
break, or leaving a memory in the routine of rural existence " (3). 
This statement may be accepted if the effect in the fourteenth 
and still more in the fifteenth century of England's success in 
producing and working up wool is not forgotten ; at that time 
she held the markets of Europe, especially Flanders and Italy. 
The price of agricultural labour had risen, and farmers found 
greater profit in pasturing sheep than growing wheat ; for as a 
proverb then went : " The foot of the sheep turns sand into 
gold." The result was that arable land was converted into 
pasture on a vast scale, the villages were depopulated and the 
tenants turned adrift (18). No information has come down to us 
as to the result upon the health of the community of this agrarian 
revolution ; but we can safely conclude that this increase of 
sheep meant a decrease of cereals and a corresponding decrease 
in population. Certainly, industry, as apart from agriculture, 
had no appreciable influence upon the health of the nation, and 
England down to the beginning of the eighteenth century was 
overwhelmingly, and as late as 1770 mainly, devoted to agri- 
culture ; in the latter year the income of the agricultural part 



S INDUSTRY AND HEALTH A RETROSPECT 

<>!' UK- nation was' estimated by Arthur Young to exceed that of 
all the rest of the community; 

IV. The Eighteenth Century. 

During the first half of the eighteenth century industrial 
development started and proceeded at a rate, slow indeed when 
compared with that of the succeeding period, but still absolutely 
fast. Toynbee estimated that between 1700 and 1750 the 
population of Lancashire increased 78 per cent., that of the 
West Riding of Yorkshire 52 per cent., of Warwickshire and 
Durham over 40 per cent., and of Staffordshire nearly 40 per 
cent. In other words, the geographical distribution of the people 
was rapidly altering and was already tending towards the form 
which it has since maintained. Nevertheless by the middle of 
the century Lancashire was showing but little sign of her parti- 
cular industrial future, for we read that " at the coronation of 
George III., in 1761, representatives of the principal trades of 
Manchester walked in procession through the streets ; tailors 
marched in the pageant, worsted weavers, woolcombers, shoe- 
makers, dyers, joiners, silk weavers, and hatters ; but there 
were no cotton weavers or manufacturers " (24). On the other 
hand, the West Riding of Yorkshire was already a seat of coarse 
woollen manufacture, the Midland pottery and hardware in- 
dustries were becoming important, and the serious development 
of the North-Eastern coal-fields had commenced. During this 
period the technique of the industries was essentially different 
from what we now see, and is well characterised by the oft 
quoted remarks of Defoe, contained in an account of a tour 
through Great Britain made in 1724 6. "The land (he is 
speaking of the country round Halifax) was divided into small 
enclosures, from two acres to six or seven each, seldom more, 
every three or four pieces of land having a house belonging to 
them ; hardly a house standing out of speaking distance from 
another. We could see at every house a tenter, and on almost 
every tenter a piece of cloth or kersie or shalloon. At every 
considerable house there was a manufactory. Every clothier 
keeps one horse at least to carry his manufactures to the market ; 
and everyone generally keeps a cow or two or more for his 
family. By this means the small pieces of enclosed land about 
each house are occupied, for they scarce sow corn enough to feed 
their poultry. The houses are full of lusty fellows, some at the 
dye vat, some at the looms, others dressing the cloths ; the 
women and children carding or spinning ; being all employed 
from the youngest to the oldest." 



WEAVING BEFORE AKKWRTCJIT 

Another picture of the system of production has been given 
us by Urc (25) : ' The workshop of the weaver was a rural 
cottage, from w r hich when he was tired of sedentary labour he 
could sally forth into his little garden, and with the spade or the 
hoe tend its culinary productions. The cotton wool which was 
to form his weft was picked clean by the fingers of his younger 
children, and was carded and spun by the older girls assisted by 
his wife, and the yarn was woven by himself assisted by his sons. 
When he could not procure within his family a supply of yarn 
adequate to the demands of his loom, he had recourse to the 
spinsters of his neighbourhood. One good weaver could keep 
three active women at work upon the wheel, spinning weft." 
James also tells (26) how at Bradford " on fine days the women 
and childr.en might be found in the streets and lanes fully em- 
ployed with the labour of spinning upon the one-thread wheel, 
in which they greatly excelled." Cunningham (4) and (5) notes 
that at Pudset, near Leeds, the woollen weavers practised 
agriculture as a bye employment as late as the beginning of the 
nineteenth century, and were able to add considerably to their 
personal comfort and pay high rents for pasture land, although 
their agricultural methods were backward. 

It has been customary to speak and write of the first half of 
the eighteenth century as a golden age in which the material 
advantages of industry were happily combined with the health- 
giving attributes of country life. * Those who have so expressed 
themselves wrote under the shadow of events which we have 
yet to mention, and no one can deny that there is something 
to he said in favour of their belief. It is not the less true 
that seeds of evil had already been sown which were to bring 
forth a bitter fruit. Creighton has remarked that the vital 
statistics of England, more particularly perhaps of the great 
towns from 1700 50, do not support the theory of a golden age. 
The bills of mortality of London showed on the average no 
saving of life after the disappearance of plague ; * and in several 
years the general mortality from fevers reached heights which 
may properly be termed epidemic. It is also plain that the 
industrial employment of little children was well established as 
early as 1671, when Chamberlayne stated that : " In the City 
of Norwich it hath of late years been computed and found, that 

* J{fference should be had 1o the <-ssay by (, 1 orbyn .Morris, contained 
in the Collvrlion of the Yearly Hilla of Mortality (8) (made by Heberden), 
which was published in I 750.' To this work is appended a life table com- 
puted by J [ames] P[ostlethwayt]. Doubtless this table is very inaccurate, 
'-.-.pt-cially at early ages ; but if we consider the survivors after age twelve, 
it appears that half were dead before completing the age of forty-seven, 
while by the London table for 1911 12 this reduction lias not been 
effected until age sixty-four (males) or sixty-nine (females). 



10 INDUSTRY AND HEALTH -A RETROSPECT 

yearly, children from six to ten years of age have gained twelve 
thousand pounds more than what they spend and that chiefly 
by knitting fine Jersey stockings."* 

In the exceeding unhealthiness of towns, and a toleration, 
indeed an approbation, of the industrial employment of children, 
we have the clouds of the bigness of a man's hand which were 
soon to overshadow the whole sky. 

Our province is not to tell how the introduction of power to 
drive machinery first water power for Arkwright's water 
frames, and then steam power supplanting it determined the- 
concentration of industries in those districts where water and 
coal were plentiful, nor to detail the series of inventions which 
in the thirty or forty years following 1770 completely trans- 
formed first the textile and subsequently nearly all the manu- 
facturing arts of this country. From our point of view, the 
outcome was (1) to aggregate the hand- working populations in 
the northern industrial towns ; and, in those towns, to transform 
the semi-domestic workplaces into factories, and the semi- 
independent manual labourers into machine-tending operatives ; 
and (2) to put a premium upon the labour of children, who, 
owing to the introduction of machinery, were able to perform 
tasks which had formerly required the physical strength of an 
adult. 

It is certainly not the business of medical writers to sit in 
judgment upon the general tendencies of an epoch of history. 
We are aware that, as Lecky puts it, " Human progress rarely 
means more than a surplus of advantages over evils " ; and we 
are not concerned to deny that the immense increase of pro- 
duction consequent upon the industrial revolution was an 
important factor in enabling the nation to emerge unruined 
(commercially) from a struggle only second in magnitude to that 
which has now drawn to a close. But no medical man can doubt 
that Lecky was also justified in the following statement : " The 
sanitary neglect, the demoralisation, the sordid poverty, the 
acute and agonising want prevailing among great sections of the 
population of our manufacturing towns during the fifty or sixty 
years that followed the inventions of Arkwright and Crompton, 
can hardly be exaggerated. Human nature has seldom shown 
itself in a more unlovely form than in those crowded and pesti- 
lential alleys, in that dark sulphurous atmosphere. The 

* See footnote, p. 308, Hull's edition of the Economic Writings of Sir 
Wm. Petty, Cambridge University Press, 1899. Petty incorrectly cites the 
age limits as six to sixteen. For other comments on the industrial employ- 
ment of children prior to the factory period, see Hutchins and Harrison, 
A History of Factory Legislation (6), 2nd edition, London, 1910, pp. 15. 
On the public health, see Creigh ton's History of Epidemics in Britain (7), 
Vol. II., Cambridge, 1894. 




FACTORY DEVELOPMENT 11 

transition from one form of industry to another, the violent 
fluctuations of wages and of work, the sudden disruption of old 
ties and habits and associations, the transfer of thousands of 
female spinners from their country homes to the crowded factory, 
the vast masses of ignorance and pauperism that were attracted 
to the towns by vague prospects of employment, have all led 
to a misery and demoralisation of an extreme character. The 
transitions of industry are always painful, but very few transi- 
tions have been so much so, as that in the closing years of the 
eighteenth century " (9). 

These words of Lecky have to-day a special application as we 
look back upon the transition of industry from peace time 
activities to those of war, and the even more turbulent transition 
back again. Industrial turbulence is an expression of industrial 
psychology which in its turn is largely dependent on what 
Hannah More at the opening of the nineteenth century styled : 
" those strange and unpleasant imaginations which are known 
by persons conversant with the diseases of the poor, to be no 
unusual consequence of bad food, and great bodily fatigue, 
joined with excessive grief." 

Increased productivity, due to the introduction of power- 
driven machinery, saved the nation, even though at the cost of 
an altogether unnecessary strain put upon the vitality of the 
working classes, from financial ruin after the Continental wars 
which ended at Waterloo. Again, to-day, there is immediate 
necessity for increased productivity ; and the means to effect 
this are to our hand, viz. : the improvement of the health of the 
working population, which will give the needed impulse to the 
wheels of industry. The nineteenth century discovered the 
value to industry of the inanimate machine ; already we can 
see the twentieth century is discovering the value of the living 
and intelligent human being. 

V. Industry and Epidemic Disease. 

From the standpoint of preventive medicine we must distin- 
guish the immediate evils associated with overcrowding and 
underfeeding from the remoter consequences of industrialisation. 

As we have remarked, long before the industrial age towns 
were very destructive of human life. A frequent history of 
epidemic disease is, that, upon its introduction or reintroduction 
(which may be effected through a seaport town as happened at 
the commencement of the present plague epoch in India, or in 
the Black Death of 1348-9), it ravages the whole countryside, 
villages and towns alike. When the first fury of the onset has 



12 INDUSTRY AND HEALTH A RETROSPECT 

subsided, independent village pestilences become rare, while 
towns are still intermittently or even regularly attacked. 

An example of this is the history of plague in Great Britain, 
where the whole country was ravaged in 1348-9, small villages 
being, if anything, more depopulated than towns ; village out- 
breaks still continued during the remainder of the fourteenth 
and fifteenth centuries, but grew rare and, after the beginning 
of the sixteenth century, plague was essentially a town disease, 
villages only being affected by direct extension. In the towns 
it maintained itself for another 150 years ; the final outbreak of 
1665 being the greatest since the fourteenth century. The 
history of typhus, probably the next greatest cause of mortality, 
is much less easily traced, but of its association with towns 
during the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century, no 
illustrations need be given. The epidemiological history of 
typhus indeed affords an exquisite illustration of the general 
hygienic factors which regulate the course of epidemic disease. 
We invariably find that the precursors of epidemic typhus are 
(1) want ; and (2) overcrowding. As an example from the 
period antecedent to the industrial revolution, we may take the 
case of Tiverton, which, in the first half of the eighteenth century, 
was a town of some 8,000 inhabitants mainly occupied in weaving. 
The condition of the south-western weaving towns seems not to 
have been unprosperous until we come to the years following 
1720, when trade began to be slack ; affairs became worse after 
a fire in 1735, when much of the town was burned, and finally 
the hard winter of 1739 40 reduced the inhabitants to acute 
distress. In 1741 " spotted fever " was epidemic, and one in 
twelve of the inhabitants died ; even twenty years later the 
population was 2,000 below its earlier average, and at the end 
of the century Tiverton was less populous than at the beginning. 
In Tiverton in 1741 we had upon a small scale what the Irish 
typhus of the mid-nineteenth century and the Serbian typhus 
of 1915 displayed upon a large stage. 

The outbreaks in the northern industrial towns after the 
industrial revolution are simply illustrations of the general 
principle, but one or two special concomitants deserve notice. 
The fatality of typhus was higher at the later epoch owing to 
the fact that large numbers of country girls had flocked into the 
towns and, in accordance with the general rule of epidemic 
disease, persons not habituated to conditions of misery or 
normally exposed to the specific contagion suffer more severely 
from the disease if acquired. This principle has often been 
exemplified in the case of typhus (as, for instance, the fatal 
spread of typhus through the judges and spectators at trials of 



nrison 



FACTORY LIFE AND DISEASE 13 



prisoners, or the enormous mortality of doctors and attendants 
on the sick in the Irish epidemics and in Serbia). The other 
special point is the partial remission of typhus during the years 
1804 16. Creighton has argued that the remission was due to 
war wages having risen proportionally more than the price of 
food. From the researches of Bowley and Wood it appears that 
in most industries the rise of wages during the war was indeed 
considerable. In the building trades wages between 1800 10 
were 40 per cent, higher than in 1795 1800. In the worsted 
and woollen trades the increase was nearly the same, and 
amounted to about 25 per cent, amongst agricultural labourers 
and in the engineering and shipbuilding trades. If we take the 
wheat prices (omitting the years 1810 arid 1812 for which the 
prices were respectively 182 per cent, and 235 per cent, of that of 
1802) the average increase during the war was a little more than 
30 per cent. Hence, so far as the trades mentioned are con- 
cerned, it would appear that the rise in wages did compensate 
the increased cost of living, while the volume of employment 
relatively to the employable population was -almost certainly 
much greater than before or since. But it seems that the 
Lancashire operative spinners (see Cunningham, op. cit., p. 470) 
were very badly off at this time, so that unless we suppose (a 
not impossible supposition) that the impetus given to the 
employment of children in the mills was so great that a tem- 
porary reduction of typhus mortality (children being relatively 
immune horn fatal typhus) was effected at the cost of other evils, 
we must not be too confident in our acceptance of the theory of 
Creighton. 

Upon the whole, however, we feel justified in attributing the 
heavy mortality from fevers at the beginning of the nineteenth 
century to the combination of want and overcrowding which 
had produced the same effects before the rise of modern industry, 
and, in the special economic circumstances prevailing at the 
beginning of the nineteenth century, were greatly intensified. 
So far as this side of industrial hygiene is concerned, it may be 
asked whether anything of the kind may be expected again. 
The answer is that, given a recurrence of want and overcrowding, 
we should inevitably have a recurrence of epidemic disease. 
What specific form such disease might take depends upon factors 
which are incapable of prediction, since the evolutionary develop- 
ment of diseases, their rise, decline and fall, which Sydenham 
in the seventeenth century deemed beyond the compass of man's 
intellect, has not even now been reduced to systematic history. 
The Serbian experience proves that the epidemic constitution of 
genuine typhus has still to be reckoned with in some places ; 



14 INDUSTRY AND HEALTH A RETROSPECT 

but, so far as we c'an judge from the still incomplete data avail- 
able, want and overcrowding under the less primitive conditions 
prevailing in central Europe during the war, influenced the public 
health rather by increasing the death-rate from tuberculosis 
than by promoting any epidemic manifestation of the zymotics 
or continued fevers. How far the recent heavy mortality from 
influenza and its complications is dependent upon want and 
overcrowding, is a question we are unable to answer ; we should 
be apt to suspect that the deleterious influences of industrial life 
in this connection have been more subtle and come properly 
under the second group of causes to which we now turn. 

As we have said, the consequences of overcrowding and want 
are not peculiar to modern industrial towns ; they had been 
observed long before a factory (in modern parlance) existed 
anywhere, and may be seen in our own time in non-industrial 
populations. But factories brought with them ways of life 
entirely peculiar to modern industry and also aggravated some 
bad customs which they found in existence. Of habits quite 
peculiar to factory life, we note the making man or woman 
subservient to machinery, the machine setting the pace which 
the human attendant is bound to maintain. Of factors not new 
but intensified, we mention the long hours of labour imposed 
upon both sexes and all ages, and the preferential employment 
of young children. So far as the specific new factor is concerned, 
we shall not anticipate here the remarks falling to be made under 
the heading of industrial fatigue and accidents. 

VI. Effect of Employment of Children. 

With respect to the latter, or at least to that sub-section which 
relates to the employment of children, something must be said, 
because the industrial employment of children is no longer 
tolerated. 

All humane persons have shuddered at the horrors of 
child life in the factories by which, as Gibbins (5) observed, 
" even the methodical and dry language of official documents is 
startled into life." The Hammonds have, it is true, pointed 
out (23) that " child labour was not a discovery of the industrial 
revolution, but the new industry provided infinite scope for the 
labour of children, and drove the workmen to rely on them." 
When labour was scarce, children were imported, and a York- 
shire manufacturer under such circumstances said he was 
" driven to the expedient of procuring from the workhouses in 
London 500 poor children to be employed in his workshops " (27). 

Hunt has described the practice at the end of the eighteenth 



EMPLOYMENT OF CHILDREN 15 

and commencement of the nineteenth century : " The greater 
number of them (the children) were pauper apprentices bound 
by parochial authorities to mill-owners, others the children of 
very poor or callous parents. From little more than infancy, * 
sometimes under seven years old, children were condemned to 
labour for long hours, thirteen or more in a day, at tasks requiring 
unremitting attention, and in rooms badly ventilated and other- 
wise injurious to health ; they were half-starved and cruelly 
punished when their wearied little arms failed to keep up with 
the demands of the machinery. The smaller mills were the worst 
in this respect, and as the supply of water power was not con- 
stant, the children in mills worked by water were often forced 
to labour far beyond their strength to make up for lost time. 
Such of them as survived the prolonged misery and torture of 
their early years, grew up more or less stunted and deformed 
men and women, physically unfit for parentage, morally debased, 
ignorant, and brutalised by ill-treatment " (17). Nor does this 
unveil the whole scene, for we read (23) : " These cotton mills, 
crowded with overworked children, were hotbeds of what was 
called putrid fever, and it was an epidemic at Radcliffe in 
1784 that first drew public attention to the condition of the 
apprentices." 

But it is not generally realised that the evils of those times 
may still be bearing fruit. Quite apart from dramatic out- 
bursts of disease affecting the death-rate suddenly, we notice in 
all industrial towns down to (and in many beyond) the middle 
of the nineteenth .century, high rates of mortality and natality. 
We shall illustrate this by a consideration of the vital and 
industrial statistics of the city of Sheffield in the early Victorian 
period displayed in Holland's treatise (10). The crude birth 
and death-rates of Sheffield from 1837 42 were 40'2 and 27'9, 
or a natural increase of 12'3 (much the same natural increase as- 
in 1913, when the birth-rate had fallen to 28 '2, but the death- 
rate to 15*8). In the chief industries, the extent to which 
women and children were employed is indicated by the following 
figures : Silver and plated manufacture : 9 boys and sixteen 
women and girls to 56 men. Saw manufacture : 130 boys to 
208 journeymen, 1 woman to 8 men. Saw-handle makers : about 
100 boys to 120 men, no women. Saw-grinders : 90 boys to 
120 men, no women. Edge tool trade : 50 boys to 200 foremen 
and 200 strikers. Spring knife manufacture (among the worst 
paid in the city) : about 600 apprentices (" boys nine or ten years 
of age may be made useful in this branch, but are seldom en- 
trusted to make even inferior articles before the age of 13 or 
14 ") to 2,250 men. File trade : 700 boys, 100 women, 1,420 



16 INDUSTRY AND HEALTH A RETROSPECT 

men.* Fork grinders : 97 men to 100 boys, 39 of the latter 
between the ages of 10 and 15. 

For comparative purposes, Holland used the mean age at 
death, not a very satisfactory statistical constant owing to the 
effect upon it of disparities in the age constitutions of the popula- 
tions compared, but yet of some value. He found the mean age 
at death during the period of which he was writing to be 33*01 
years for the county of Devonshire, 29'11 for England and Wales, 
24-12 for Sheffield, 24'24 for Birmingham and 21 '24 for Leeds. 
It will thus be seen that, even in Sheffield, the industries of which 
were less adapated to the employment of juvenile labour than 
those of the textiles, large numbers of children were employed. 
As late as 1856, 6 '6 per cent, of all employees in the textile 
industries were children under thirteen, and 57 per cent, were 
women over thirteen (6). In 1843, the print works of Lancashire, 
Cheshire and Derbyshire employed 5,646 children to 9,104 
adults ( (6), p. 124). 

We find then in this period widespread industrial employment 
of children and high birth and death-rates, the instance of 
Sheffield being easily paralleled in other industrial centres, as 
appears in Greenhow's survey, published in 1858. In the 
sentence quoted from Holland as to the employment of children, 
we have mentioned an important reason for this kind of labour. 
Notwithstanding the successive extension of factory acts to 
different industries, the exploitation of children continued 
throughout the first sixty years of the nineteenth century ; the 
chief difference between the later and earlier epochs being that 
the direct exploiters ceased to be the factory owners, whose place 
was taken by the ill-paid parents. Pearson (28) has called 
attention to the fact that a decline in the birth rate followed or 
was hastened by each legislative measure which restricted the 
industrial employment of children, that in fact the high birth- 
rate was an instance of demand creating a supply. What 
happened was that large numbers of children were produced ; 
these children, winnowed by a heavy infant mortality and 
similarly high mortality rates at older ages, formed the surviving 
industrial population of the late seventies, the parents of the 
existing generation. 

Some writers have seen in the co-existence of high birth and 
death rates a favourable field for the evolution of a virile race, 

* " Another important difference between this and the silver-plated 
branch is' the much earlier age at which boys can be employed in the 
former. The dissipation, idleness, or. necessity of parents, causes them to 
put their children to work, years before they ought to leave school, so that 
the addition made to the branch, is not from the educated of the rising 
generation, but from a class which, have scarcely received anv instruction 
at, all "(10), p. 189. 



EFFECT ON NATIONAL PHYSIQUE 17 

by the operation of " the survival of the fittest." This type of 
reasoning, which finds its crudest expression in the pseudo- 
scientific " Darwinism " of German militarists, rests upon an 
illegitimate identification of the terms " fittest " and " best." 
It is a mere truism to say that those who survive the rigours of 
such an environment as existed in working class dwellings and 
factories throughout the early and middle years of the nineteenth 
century are the fittest to survive ; it is a mere dogma to say that 
such survivors are the best type of citizens. " The survival of 
the fittest may be the survival of the analogue to ' Frankenstein's 
Demon,' " says Thorold Rogers (3). " It is possible that the 
struggle for existence, unless controlled and elevated, may be 
the degradation of all. It nearly came to be so during the first 
thirty years of the present (nineteenth) century." The characters 
of the surviving product obviously depend upon the test applied. 
Were we to use as a test exposure to infection by typhus, the 
habitues of the eighteenth century jails were much " fitter " 
than judges, barristers and magistrates. How far, if at all, 
desirable civic qualities are correlated with powers of resistance 
to the germs of diseases is a subject of which we know little or 
nothing. It is in fact quite arguable that the present unsatis- 
factory state of the national physique (supposing it to be un- 
satisfactory) is mainly due to the survival of the fittest under 
the conditions of the early days of. factories. The practical 
importance of this lies in the reflection that, if it be true, im- 
provement of home and factory environment will only lead to a 
general amelioration of the national physique gradually, by 
changing the standard of survival values. In making these 
remarks, we desire to guard ourselves from the assumption of 
responsibility for the statement that the general physique of 
this nation has in fact deteriorated. No complete or satisfactory 
national stocktaking has ever been made ; for comparisons 
between now and fifty years ago we must resort to death rates, 
and, for the reasons above given, these do not provide us with 
the necessary information. The one certain conclusion which 
emerges from the historical data we have attempted to summarise 
is that the sanitary conditions of the hand-labouring population j 
were changed for the worse by the industrial revolution, and 
continued to be disgraceful to civilisation for more than fifty 
years. Certain of these conditions were accidentally associated 
with industry, being ultimately manifestations of poverty ; 
others were directly caused by the methods of industrial work. 
The amelioration of the former belongs to the domain of general 
sanitary science ; that of the latter falls more particularly into 
the field attempted to be covered by this book, and what further 



18 INDUSTRY AND HEALTH A RETROSPECT 

historical treatment is required to elucidate the problems will 
be found in the chapters devoted to the special topics. 

VII. Bibliography. 

1. Collis, E. L. Industrial Pneumonoconioses. Milroy Lectures, 
1915. Public Health. 1915. 

2. H. T. Buckle. History of Civilisation. 

3. Thorold Rogers. Six Centuries of Work and Wages, p. 557. 
Fisher Unwin. 1917. 

4. Cunningham. Growth of English Industry and Commerce in 
Modern Times, p. 480. Cambridge. 1892. 

5. Gibbins, H. de B. Industry in England, pp. 326 et seq. 1896. 

6. Hutchins, B. L., and Harrison, A. A History of Factory Legis- 
lation. 2nd Edition. London. 1911. 

7. Creighton. History of Epidemics in Britain. Cambridge. 1894. 

8. Collection of the Yearly Bills of Mortality from 1657 to 1758. 
London. 1759. 

9. Lecky, W. E.H. History of England in 18th Century. Chap. XXI. 

10. Holland, G. C. The Vital Statistics of Sheffield. London. 1843. 

11. Thackrah, C. T. The Effects of Arts, Trades, etc., on Health. 
London. 1832. 

12. Economic Writings of Sir William Petty. Hull's Edition. 
Cambridge. 1899. 

13. Bowley and Wood. " Papers on the Statistics of Wages." 
Journ. Roy. Slat. Soc. 18981906. (14 parts.) 

14. Greenhow, E. H. The Results of an Inquiry into the Different 
Proportions of Death Produced by Certain Diseases in Different Dis- 
tricts of England. General Board of Health. London. 1858. 

15. Ramazzini, B. Treatise on the Diseases of Tradesmen. 
Translated by Dr. James. London. 1746. 

16. Greenhow, E. H. Reports of the Medical Officer to the Privy 
Council, 1860. 1861-2. 

17. Hunt, W. The Political History of England. Vol. X., p. 278. 
Longmans, Green & Co. 1905. 

18. Lipson, E. Economic History of England, pp. 124-9. A. and C. 
Black, Ltd. 1915. 

19. Abram, A. English Life and Manners in the Later Middle 
Ages, p. 87. G. Routledge & Sons. 1913. 

20. Cooke Taylor, R. W. History of the Factory System. Richard 
Bentley & Son. 1886. 

21. Jevons, W. Stanley. The State in Relation to Labour. English 
Citizen Series. Macmillan & Co. 1882. 

22. Cooke-Taylor, R. W. The Factory System. 2nd Edition. 
Methuen & Co., Ltd. 1912. 

23. Hammond, J. L., and Hammond, B. The Town Labourer. 
Longmans, Green & Co. 1917. 

24. Hammond, J. L., and Hammond, B. The Skilled Labourer. 
Longmans, Green & Co. 1919. 

25. Ure, A. Cotton Manufacture of Great Britain. 1836. 

26. James. History of 'thj Worsted Manufacture. 

27. Annals of Agriculture. Vol. XVI. 

28. Pearson, K. The Problem of Practical Eugenics. Dulan. 1909. 

29. Daniels, G. W. The Early English Cotton Industry. Long- 
mans, Green & Co. 1920. (This valuable study, which reached us 
too late for notice in the text, throws further light upon the 18th 
century organisation of this industry.) 



CHAPTER II 

REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

I. Introduction. IT. Ordinance of Labourers. III. Statute of Appren- 
tices. IV. Truck Acts. V. Chimney Sweeps. VI. Health and 
Morals of Apprentices Act. VII. Controversy. VIII. 1819 31. 
IX. A Sidelight. X. 183353. XI. 185578. XII. 18831901. 
XIII. 1903 and later. XIV. A Retrospect. XV. Bibliography. 
XVI. Appendix. 

I. Introduction. 

THE summary which has been given in the previous chapter 
of the development of industry up to the end of the eighteenth 
century, and of the direct and indirect ways in which industry 
has throughout the centuries had an influence upon the health 
and well-being of the community as a whole, and upon its 
votaries in particular, brings us in historical sequence to the 
moment when the first efforts at factory legislation were made. 
While, however, the first Acts definitely directed to supervising 
the conditions of industrial life date from the commencement of 
the nineteenth century, regard must be had to the existence 
before then of certain statutes upon which this legislation may 
be said to have been built. 

No attempt at improving the lot of labourers is to be expected 
in society so long as it is based on a system of slavery or serfdom. 
The utmost that can be expected is ordinances protecting the 
lives of slaves together with other property from wilful damage ; 
certainly in Rome and Egypt, where labour was carried out by- 
slaves, there were strict laws for their protection (10, p. 31), 
and perhaps some sense of moral obligation towards them.* 
When slavery disappears each worker becomes his own master, 
and free (in theory) to dispose of his labour as he thinks fit. An 
interval, therefore, exists between laws protecting slave labour 
and those protecting free labour. During this interval so-called 
free labour may be reduced, as it was in England at the end of 
the eighteenth century and in the beginning of the nineteenth 

* Thus Cicero writes (De Officii?, I., 13) : " Meminerimus autem etiam 
adversus infimos justitiam esse servandam. Est autem infima conditio 
et fortuna servorum : quibus, non male praecipiunt, qui ita jubent uti, 
ut mercenariis ; operam exigendam, justa praebenda." See also Gibbon 
(Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Chapter II.), who points out that 
by the edicts of Hadrian and the Antonines, " upon a just complaint of 
intolerable treatment, the injured slave obtained either his deliverance or 
a less cruel master." 



20 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

century, to a condition as bad as, if not worse than, recognised 
slavery. 

Relegation of manual labour to slaves has inevitably led to its 
being looked down upon and despised, and so has hampered 
industrial development and progress. Aristotle taught the 
Greeks that " in the best-governed states, where the citizens are 
really men of intrinsic and not relative goodness, none of them 
should be permitted to exercise any mechanic employment or 
follow merchandise, as being ignoble and destructive to virtue." 4 

Seneca has left for us a passage which indicates how the 
Romans, who employed slaves, despised industry : " In my 
own time there have been inventions of this sort, transparent 
windows, tubes for diffusing warmth equally through all parts 
of a building, short-hand which has been carried to such a 
perfection that a writer can keep pace with the most rapid 
speaker. But the inventing of such things is a drudgery for the 
lowest slaves ; philosophy lies deeper. It is not her office to 
teach men how to use their hands. The object of her lesson is 
to form the mind. She is not, I maintain, the mere inventor of 
tools for everyday use. . . . We shall next be told that the first 
shoemaker was a philosopher, "f While the Emperor Augustus 
actually pronounced the sentence of death against the Senator 
Ovinius for having stooped to direct a manufactory (10, p. 4). 

It is significant that the great physician, Galen, in his treatise 
De sanitate tuenda, has nothing to say of the hygiene of factories, 
although he makes some very sensible remarks as to the habits 
of life of business men. Slave labour had by then become 
intensified ; Roman industries had languished ; and the proposi- 
tion is tenable that, later, this outlook on industry contributed to, 
if it did not actually determine, the decline of Rome. Bryce 
'points out (19) that in mediaeval Rome " there was a want hot 
only of fixed authority, but of the elements of social stability 
which the other cities of Italy possessed. In the greater repub- 
lics of Lombardy and Tuscany the bulk of the population were 
artizans, hard-working orderly people ; while above them stood 
a prosperous middle class, engaged mostly in commerce, and 
having in their trade-guilds an organization both firm and 
flexible. . . . Rome possessed neither of these sources of wealth. 
She was ill-placed for trade ; having no market, she produced no 
goods to be disposed of. ... As there was no industry, so there 

* The Politics, Book VII., Chapter IX. 

4 Seneca, EpisL, 90. We cannot refrain from adding Macaulay's 
comment : " For our own part, if we are forced to make our choice between 
the first shoemaker and the author of the three books on Anger, we 
pronounce for the shoemaker. It may be worse to be angry than to be 
wet. But shoes have kept millions from being wet ; and we doubt whether 
Seneca ever kept anybody from being angry." 



THE BLACK DEATH 21 

was nothing that deserved to be called a citizen class. The 
people were a mere rabble, prompt to follow the demagogue who 
flattered their vanity, prompter still to desert him in the hour of 
danger." 

II. Ordinance of Labourers. 

1349. The point of view here portrayed remained unaltered 
through the ages and existed in England until long after the 
Norman Conquest. As soon, however, as serfdom disappeared, 
we find the first statutes dealing with labour. The circumstances 
which led to them were associated with the Black Death, which, by 
carrying away nearly half the population of the kingdom, caused 
a great scarcity of labour ; and in 1349 the famous Ordinance of 
Labourers, which was supplemented by the Statute of Labourers 
in 1351, was passed. The preamble to the first ran : " Because 
a great part of the people, and especially of workmen and servants, 
late died of the pestilence, many seeing the necessity of masters, 
and great scarcity of servants, will not serve unless they may 
receive excessive wages. . . . Be it therefore enacted . . . that 
every man or woman, of whatsoever condition, free or bond, 
able in body and within the age of three-score years, . . . shall 
be bound to serve the employer who shall require him to do so, 
and shall take only the wages which were accustomed to be 
taken in the neighbourhood where he is bound to serve ... in 
the twentieth year of the king, and in five or six common years 
next before." In the second statute, an elaborate scale of 
wages was set forth and rendered obligatory under heavy 
penalty, and the principle of confining labourers to their native 
districts firmly established. These enactments, which probably 
had but little influence upon the course of events, are of interest 
as showing that even then the State attempted to control 
labour (4). 

III. Statute of Apprentices. 

The next enactment is that of the Statute of Apprentices, 
passed in the early years of Elizabeth's reign. Jevons (5) writes 
of this statute : '' The general theory of the Act is that every 
servant or artificer shall be compelled to work in the trade to 
which he was brought up. Any workman departing from his 
city, town or parish, without a testimonial from his previous 
employer or some officer, was to be imprisoned until he procured 
a testimonial ; or, if he could not do so within the space of one- 
and-twenty days, he was to be whipped and used as a vagabond. 
The hours of labour were prescribed, not, as in our Factory Acts, 
by way of limitation, but by imposition. Thus, from the middle 



22 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

of the month of March to the middle of September, all artificers 
and labourers hired by time were to be and continue at their 
work at or before five o'clock in the morning, and continue at 
work and not depart until betwixt seven and eight of the clock 
at night* two and a half hours in the course of the day being 
allowed for meals and drinking, thus the legal day's work was 
to be about twelve hours at the least." The interesting points 
in this Act then, are, that compulsion was exerted to prevent a 
workman from changing his trade or leaving his district and 
that hours of employment extended from 5 a.m. until after 
7 p.m. The provisions of this statute may possibly throw light 
upon Shakespeare's words in Julius Ccesar : 

" Flavins. Hence ! Home, you idle creatures, get you home ; 

Is this a holiday ? What ! know you not, 

Being mechanical, you ought not to walk 

Upon a labouring day without the sign 

Of your profession ? Speak, what trade art thou ? 
First Commoner. Why, sir, a carpenter. 
Marcellus. Where is thy leather apron and thy rule ? 

What dost thou with thy best apparel on ? 

You, sir, what trade are you ? 
First Commoner. Truly, sir, in respect of a fine workman, 

I am but, as you would say, a cobbler." 

Even as late as 1746 labour legislation continued to strengthen 
the authority of the employer, In an Act of that year " power 
was retained for the justices, on complaint of the masters of 
misdemeanour or ill-behaviour on the part of the servant, to 
discharge the latter from service or to send him to a house of 
correction, ' there to be corrected,' that is, to be held to hard 
labour for a term not exceeding a month or to be corrected by 
whipping " (20). 

1601. Poor Law. The next Act of interest is the Poor Law 
of 1601, which provided that substantial householders, acting as 
overseers of the poor, should in every parish raise money by 
taxation, in order, among other things, to set to work and 
apprentice to some trade destitute children and orphans ; and 
we find that during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries 
charitable institutions were started for providing these children 
with instruction in spinning and weaving (2, p. 2). Possibly 
this law was the germ from which sprang the widespread em- 
ployment of children previously referred to, which formed so 
black a spot in the industrial development of the latter half of 
the eighteenth and the first half of the nineteenth century. 
Certainly this question of the employment of children moved the 
nation to embark upon industrial legislation. 

* In winter months work-time was from 5 a.m. until dark. 



PAYMENT BY COMMODITIES 23 



IV. Truck Acts. 

The first definite legislative effort which appears to have been 
made in favour of labour dealt with the principle of Truck, i.e., 
payment of wages, not by coin of the realm, but by commodities. 
As early as 4 Edward IV. reference is made to payment to 
workers in " pins, girdles and unprofitable wares " ; and 
payment is ordained in true and lawful money (20). An Act 
dealing with Truck was passed in the first year of Anne's reign ; 
it referred to woollen, linen, cotton, and iron manufactures. It 
was re-enacted in 1726, in the reign of George I., and has re- 
mained the principle of payment of wages ever since. Although 
the principle of paying wages by coin of the realm, instead of 
by kind, was thus early accepted by Parliament, the Act was 
for long a dead letter, as is clear from the evidence called to 
support the passing of Acts in 1817 extending the powers to the 
coal and steel industries, and for further stiffening the law in 
1820 (11). Nevertheless, the principle was accepted thus early, 
and is the basis of the Truck Act, 1831, which was amended in 
1887 and in 1896. These Acts in relation to factories or work- 
shops are administered by inspectors of factories, and in relation 
to mines by inspectors of mines ; they refer to workers of all ages 
and both sexes, and the more recent Acts have been extended 
beyond the original principle to control deductions from wages 
by means of fines. 

V. Chimney Sweeps. 

The first instance of legislation to protect children was the 
Chimney Sweeps Act, 1788 ; but " it was very modest on paper, 
and absolutely ineffective in practice " (11). 

The condition of these children sweeps is revealed in the 
agitation which after years of effort terminated in the Act of 
1834, which forbade the binding as a sweep of any boy under 
ten, and the employment of children under fourteen unless 
apprenticed or on trial. In 1840 an Act was passed forbidding 
any one under twenty-one to climb chimneys, and the appren- 
ticing of children under sixteen years of age ; this Act was 
further amended in 1864. Previous to these Acts we learn (14) 
that the children, who had to be small to negotiate flues 
only seven inches in diameter, were stolen for the purpose, or 
were sold by their parents for a few pounds ; were driven up 
the chimneys and possibly made to climb by a straw fire lighted 
beneath them ; that many, submerged in soot in narrow or 
horizontal flues, were suffocated ; and that they usually slept 
in cellars with a bag of soot for a bed and another for a cover- 



24 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

let (11). The words put by. Blake into the mouth of the chimney 
sweeper are in no way false. 

" When my mother died I was very young, 
And my father sold me while yet my tongue 
Could scarcely cry, ' Weep, weep, weep, weep, ' * 
So your chimneys I sweep, and in soot I sleep. 1 ' 

VI. Health and Morals oJ Apprentices Act. 

1802. We now come to the Act passed in 1802, which 
has generally been accepted to be the commencement of factory 
legislation ; but " it was in reality not a Factory Act properly 
speaking, but merely an extension of the Elizabethan Poor Law 
relating to parish apprentices. The Government, having taken 
upon itself the responsibility of bringing up and placing out 
these children, found itself compelled, when need was shown, to 
attempt to regulate their conditions of work " (2, p. 16) ; this 
appears in the name : " The Health and Morals of Apprentices 
Act." The Act applied to cotton and woollen factories ; and 
its provisions, which are of considerable interest, are briefly stated 
by Cooke-Taylor (10) as follows : 

" 1st : The first section enjoins the ' master or mistress ' 
of the factory to observe the law. 2nd : All rooms in a 
factory are to be lime-washed twice a year and duly ventilated 
(sec. ii.). 3rd : Every apprentice is to be supplied with two 
complete suits of clothing one new suit every year with 
suitable linen, stockings, hats and shoes (sec. iii.). 4th : The 
hours of work of apprentices are not to exceed twelve a day, 
nor commence before six in the morning, nor conclude after 
nine at night (sec. iv.). 5th : They are to be instructed every 
working day during the first four years of apprenticeship in 
reading, writing and arithmetic ' by some discreet and proper 
person,' the time so occupied to be counted out of their hours 
of work (sec. vi.). 6th : Male and female apprentices are to 
be provided with separate sleeping apartments, and not more 
than two to sleep in one bed (sec. vii.). 7th: On Sunday they 
are to be instructed in the principles of the Christian religion ; 
they are to comply with various religious ordinances during 
their apprenticeship, and to go to church once a month at 
least (sec. iii.). 8th : Two visitors are to be appointed by the 
adjacent Justices of the Peace, one of whom must himself be a 
Justice, and the other a member either of the Church of England 
or of the Church of Scotland, to enforce the provisions of the 
Act (sec. ix.). 9th : In case of infectious disorders prevailing, 

* Part of the (sweep) apprentices' duty was to advertise their masters 
by " crying the streets " (11). 



LEGISLATIVE CONTROVERSY 25 

these visitors may require the employer to call in medical 
assistance (sec. x.). 10th : Copies of the regulations of the 
Act are to be affixed in conspicuous places (sec. xii.). llth : A 
list of the factories situated in his district is to be kept by 
every Clerk of the Peace (sec. xiv.). Penalties are enacted for 
breaches of the law (sees. xi. to xiii.), and the method of 
recovering them (sees, xv^ xvi.) is provided for." 

VII. Controversy. 

The history of how, during the nineteenth century, especially 
during the first half of that century, factory legislation developed 
from this, its first beginning, is one of great interest. The 
work is associated with the names of Robert Owen, Lord Ashley, 
Oastler, Sadler, and Cobbett ; but the acrimonious discussions 
which took place and the fights have no particular place in this 
book. The interest for us lies rather in the way in which the 
employers on the one side resisted legal action, declaring that it 
would ruin industry, even though each step taken was found in 
action to be advantageous to industry, and in which the pro- 
tagonists of factory legislation relied upon the appeal to humani- 
tarian sentiment. Indeed, throughout the long controversy 
which centred on the Factory Acts, neither side ever appealed 
to direct experiment to justify their contentions. 

The recommendations, for instance, based on careful scientific 
observations made by Dr. Edward Smith (18), in 1861, do not 
appear to have in any way affected legislation ; yet he plainly 
stated the need for many reforms which are only now being 
adopted. He opposed work before breakfast, writing as 
follows : " The present arrangements cannot be otherwise than 
injurious to the working classes themselves, and they are by no 
means to the advantage of the employers, for it is notorious how 
apt is the result to be inadequate to the hours occupied and the 
money paid for it. It is a perpetual struggle between the two 
classes the one trying to evade a condition which is unnatural, 
and the other seeking to obtain the labour which is universally 
conceded in the morning and actually denied in the evening. 
In our opinion, no laborious occupation should be followed in 
this climate before 7 a.m., and it ought in all instances to be 
preceded by the breakfast. If this plan were adopted, it would 
do much to save the health of our weakened population, to 
prevent the distrust between employer and employed, and to 
obtain a fairer amount of labour from a given day's work. The 
period of the day in which the human system is the most 
vigorous and fitted for labour in our climate is from about 
8 or 9 a.m. until about 4 or 5 p.m., but it is sufficiently vigorous 



26 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

for a longer period." Again we find Smith before his time in 
the statement : " Rest is a necessary alternative to labour, and 
as small meals are conducive to muscular exertion, it is worthy 
of consideration if those who are engaged in manual labour for 
many hours would not perform it with more ease if there were 
more frequent, but shorter, intervals for rest and for meals, 
instead of the three meals a day at long intervals, with the single 
long interval of rest between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m. It is very probable 
that more work would be done, and at a less cost to the workman." 
There is no record of any careful investigation as to the effect 
of shortening hours until we come to 1893, when Messrs. Mather 
and Platt, at their Salford Works, shortened the hours and 
published the result of the first twelve months' working. There 
were those like Lord Macaulay, who in 1846 spoke (3) as follows : 
" I do not mean to say that a man will not produce more in a 
week by working seven days than by working six days. But I 
very much doubt whether, at the end of a year, he will generally 
have produced more by working seven days a week than by 
working six days a week ; and I firmly believe that at the end 
of twenty y*ears he will have produced much less by working 
seven days a week than by working six days a week. In the 
same manner I do not deny that a factory child will produce more 
in a single day by working twelve hours than by working ten, 
and by working fifteen hours than by working twelve. But I do 
deny that a great society in which children work fifteen or even 
twelve hours a day will, in the lifetime of a generation, produce 
as much as if those children had worked less. . . . Your over- 
worked boys will become a feeble and ignoble race of men, the 
parents of a more feeble progeny ; nor will it be long before the 
deterioration of the labourer will injuriously affect those very 
interests to which his physical and moral energies have been 
sacrificed." In the light of investigations which have been 
carried out recently (see Chapter V.), and with the exception of 
the Mather and Platt experiment already quoted, few investiga- 
tions worthy of the name were carried out until, during the war, 
the Health of Munition Workers Committee promoted many, 
we can now see that the whole controversy might have been 
amicably settled to the satisfaction of both parties had they only 
been content to appeal to facts instead of quarrelling over unsub- 
stantiated statements. 

VIII. 181931. 

The Act of 1802 was followed during the nineteenth century 
by much further legislation ; but the reader must have in 
mind that each legislative advance recorded was only gained 



EARLY FACTORY ACTS 27 

in the teeth of opposition ; that at each stage commissions 
were appointed, ostensibly to institute inquiries, but often 
only as an expedient to defer action ; and that legislation, 
even when passed, was (at least before the appointment of 
inspectors) either not enforced, or only put in action in a few 
flagrant cases (1, 10, 11). This warning having been given, the 
outstanding features may be summarised as follows : 

1819. In 1819 the age of children employed was limited to 
nine years, and it was laid down that any one under sixteen 
years of age should not be employed for more than twelve hours 
a day. Since the hours fixed were exclusive of meal-time 
one hour and a half per day the period of work per week was 
seventy-two hours. Night work was prohibited. This Act 
only applied to cotton-mills. 

1825. In 1825 it was laid down that one hour and a half 
should be set aside for meal-times, exclusive of the twelve 
hours' employment, that is to say, attendance at the factory was 
for thirteen and a half hours. In this year it was further laid 
down for the first time that on Saturday only nine hours 
should be worked. The age of those to whom these provisions 
applied remained the same, namely, under sixteen years of age. 

1831. -The administration of these Acts had been placed in 
the hands of justices of the peace. This plan was found in 
practice to be unsatisfactory because the justices in any district 
were so closely associated with the industry of the district. 
Some effort to remedy this was made in 1831, when the law laid 
down that mill-owners and their relations (parents, brothers 
and sons) were excluded from hearing cases brought under the 
Acts. In this year the abstract of the Act, which had under 
the Act of 1819 to be displayed in a conspicuous position, was 
omitted and a register of hours of employment substituted 
instead. .Hours of labour were in this year limited to twelve 
hours per day and nine on Saturdays, i.e., sixty-nine hours 
per week, for those under eighteen years of age ; and night 
work for those under twenty-one years of age was prohibited. 
But still, legislation only had reference to cotton mills. 

IX. A Sidelight. 

Lest the reader lose sight during this exposition of detail of 
the evils at which legislation was aimed, just one extract may 
be given from evidence heard by a committee, presided over by 
Mr. M. T. Sadler, whose deliberations preceded the next Act. 
An overseer from Dundee said : 

" There were a great many children in proportion to the 



28 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

number of adults ; most of them were orphans. There were 
some of the orphan children from Edinburgh who had been 
in the mill, I believe, from four to five years. The children 
were incapable of performing their day's labour well towards 
the termination of the day ; their fate was to be awoke by 
being beaten, and to be kept awake by the same method. 
They were guarded up to their bothies to take their meals, 
and were locked up in the bothies at night, and the master 
took the key away with him to his bedroom ; they were 
guarded to their work, and they were guarded back again ; 
and they were guarded while they were taking their meat, 
and then they* were locked up for rest. They were not allowed 
to go to a place of worship on the Sunday. There were 
twenty-five or twenty-six of us together. There was one 
bothy for the boys, but that did not hold them all, and there 
were some of them put into the other bothy along with the 
girls. The ages of the boys that were put into the girls' 
bothy might be, I should suppose, from ten to fourteen, the 
ages of the girls, perhaps, from twelve to eighteen. The 
children and young persons were sometimes successful in 
their attempts to escape from labour and confinement. I 
have gone after them on horseback and brought them back 
myself. Those brought back were taken into the mill, and 
got a severe beating with a strap ; sometimes the master 
kicked them on the floor, and struck them with both his 
hands and his feet. Those who had made engagements for 
any length of time, when they ran away, the master, if he 
could not find them before they got home to their relations, 
if they had any, he sent after them and put them in gaol. I 
knew a woman put in gaol, and brought back after a twelve- 
month, and worked for her meat ; and she had to pay the 
expenses that were incurred." 

At this very time Great Britain was by Orders in Council 
(November, 1831) restricting the hours of work of adult slaves 
to nine hours a day, and of child slaves under fourteen years of 
age to six hours a day. " You have limited," said Sadler, " the 
labour of the robust negro to nine hours ; but when I propose 
that the labour of the young white slave shall not exceed ten, 
the proposition is deemed extravagant " (12). 

X. 183353. 

1833. The dispensation of justice, notwithstanding the 
provision of the Act of 1831, remained unsatisfactory. There- 
fore, in 1833 legislation was passed under which factory inspec- 



COAL MINES 29 

tors paid by the State were appointed. In the same year the 
labour of children under thirteen years of age was limited to 
forty- eight hours in any week and to nine hours a day, and it 
was laid down that no one under eighteen years of age, now 
called "a young person," should be employed on nightwork, 
i.e., between 8.30 p.m. and 5.30 a.m., or for more than sixty-nine 
hours per week. Certificates of age were no longer to be given 
by the parents of the children, but by a physician or surgeon, 
who had to declare the individual to be of " the ordinary strength 
and appearance " of a child of not less than nine years of age. 
The Act of this year extended legislation to cotton, woollen, 
worsted, hemp, flax, tow, linen, and silk factories. 

1842. Coal Mines. Meanwhile the condition of those 
employed in coal mines was attracting attention. Miners at 
the end of the sixteenth century in Scotland (and in England 
their lot was somewhat similar) were the property of their 
landlords, appurtenances to the estates, and transferable with 
them to any purchasers (13). The men gradually improved 
their position, but not always by gentle means,, and during the 
latter half of the eighteenth century, in 1747, 1769, and 1800, 
measures were passed to protect mining property from damage. 
As the industry developed with improving transport, by canal 
and rail, and as deeper seams were worked after the intro- 
duction of safety-lamps, the occupation became increasingly 
dangerous, and disastrous explosions occurred. At this time 
women and young children were employed underground. 
Inquiries were set on foot, and, following upon the report of a 
Commission appointed at the instance of Lord Ashley, a Mines 
and Collieries Act was passed in 1842. The main provisions 
of this Act indicate the evils at which it was aimed ; they 
were : 

(1) Prohibition of employment underground of females. 
This provision foreshadowed the inclusion of women in the next 
Factory Act. 

(2) Prohibition of employment underground of males under 
ten years of age (a year older than the requirements of the 
Factory Act ; but no medical certificate of fitness was or ever 
has been required for mines). 

(3) Prohibition of payment of wages in public-houses. This 
provision was but ill observed. 

(4) No steam or other engine could thereafter be under the 
care of any person under fifteen years of age where there were 
vertical or other shafts. 

(5) Inspectors were appointed to visit and report to the Secre- 
tary of State. The powers given, including right of entry 



30 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

underground, sec, iii., were similar to, but not as extensive as, 
those given to factory inspectors. 

1844. The newly appointed factory inspectors found diffi- 
culty in ascertaining the ages of children ; there was no birth 
certification before 1837, and the certificates often produced 
were of doubtful value, signed by cow-doctors, dentists and other 
totally unqualified persons (2, p. 73). They therefore appointed 
definite surgeons to certify that the children were of such 
physique as to justify the probability of their being at least 
nine years of age. In 1844 this action of the inspectors was 
accepted by law and the appointment of certifying surgeons 
was definitely legalised. The fees of these surgeons, sixpence 
per certificate signed, had to be paid by the children ; not until 
1878 was the employer called upon to pay half, and, finally, 
in 1891 the whole fee. In the Act of this year provision was first 
made for the fencing of mill-gearing and shafting, and we also 
find here for the first time women included with the young 
persons in the limitation of hours. Another innovation was the 
introduction of the half-time system, which permitted children 
to be employed for half the day only or on alternate days. 
Such children had to be at least eight years old, and a register 
of them had to be kept. Under the Act of 1833 the inspectors 
had been endowed with the powers of justices of the peace. 
These powers they found to be unsatisfactory, and, at their own 
request, they were now removed. 

1845. A further Act was passed in 1845, known as the Print 
Works Act, which regulated the labour of children, young 
persons, and women in calico print works. No child under 
eight was to be employed ; no children under thirteen or women 
were to be employed between 10 o'clock in the evening and 
6 o'clock in the morning, and children under thirteen were to 
attend school thirty days in each half-year during the last six 
months preceding admission to the factory, and during the first 
six months of employment. 

1847. Ten Hours Act. What is known as the Ten Hours 
Act was passed in 1847. It was the outcome of a long period 
of controversy concerning hours of labour. This Act only 
applied to protected persons, that is to say, to young persons 
and to women ; it laid down that no one under the age of 
eighteen years should be employed in those factories to which 
the Act applied for more than ten hours in any one day, or 
more than fifty-eight hours in any one week, and these restric- 
tions were extended to females above the age of eighteen years. 
This Act permitted work to be carried on between 5.30 a.m. 
and 8.30 p.m. a period which is curiously reminiscent of the 



TEN HOURS ACT 31 

Statute of Apprentices in Elizabeth's reign. During the debates 
which took place, the position was made clear that the men 
considered their hours would be similarly limited, because, 
since their work depended on that of protected persons, they 
would have to be employed for the same periods ; in fact, this 
Act is considered a case where the men advanced behind the 
petticoats of the women. 

1850. The drafting of previous Acts relating to hours of 
employment allowed the employer to introduce the relay system, 
that is to say, he claimed to be employing certain protected 
persons the first half of the day and others in the last half, while 
the men were employed continuously while the machinery 
was in action. Inspectors found administration difficult owing 
to the practical impossibility of ascertaining whether in fact 
any protected person whom they found employed in the latter 
half of the day had not been employed in the earlier part ; this 
difficulty was not rendered any easier by the fact that the workers 
themselves were ready to collude with the employers, and give 
false evidence. In order to meet this difficulty the hours of work 
in 1850 were fixed to be on five days in the week either from 
6 a.m. to 6 p.m., or 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., with an hour and a half 
for meal-time within these twelve hours, and on Saturdays 
not after 2 p.m. ; and so a normal working week of sixty hours 
was fixed. Cobbett strongly advocated at this time that the 
hours of males should be controlled as well as those of protected 
persons, but no action was taken, nor indeed has action ever 
been taken from that day to this to control the hours of male 
labour in factories (except in a few dangerous processes). 

1850. Mines Act. Inspectors of mines were given further 
powers by an Act passed in 1850, which also called upon 
colliery owners to give notice of fatal accidents, and to keep 
accurate plans of their mines. 

1853. A short Act was passed in 1853 to regulate the employ- 
ment of children in factories, which restricted their period of 
employment so that it fell within the twelve hours per day 
fixed by the previous Act for women and young persons. 

XL 185578. 

1855. A further Coal Mines Act became law in 1855, which, 
in addition to certain safety provisions, required adequate 
ventilation of the workings by mechanical means sufficient to 
render noxious gases harmless. Ventilation so called for was 
to obviate the danger of ^explosions ; but following upon this 
provision, miners' asthma, which was then ubiquitous on the 



32 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

coal fields, has gradually disappeared. This Act also required 
special rules, approved of by the Secretary of State (in practice 
the district inspector), to be made for each mine ; this method 
of procedure was shortly after incorporated in the Factory Act 
of 1864. 

1856. In 1856 a Factory Act was passed which extended the 
meaning of the word " machinery " of the 1844 Act, and declared 
that it should include mill-gearing, which from this time forward 
had to be fenced. 

1860. A comprehensive and consolidating Coal Mines Act 
was passed in 1860. This Act also applied to ironstone mines 
of the coal measures. It raised the age at which boys might 
be employed to twelve, and at which persons might be entrusted 
with the care of steam engines to eighteen ; at the same time 
the scope of special rules was enlarged, and the system of 
check weighing was introduced. 

The application of the provisions of the Factory Acts was 
extended in 1860 to bleach and dye works, which were declared to 
be factories within the meaning of the Acts. 

1862. An Act to amend the law relating to coal mines was 
passed in 1862, which prohibited the working of coal and 
ironstone with a single shaft. 

1862 63. In 1862 night work, i.e., between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m., 
in bleach and dye works was prohibited for protected persons, 
and in 1863 the Bleachworks Act of 1860 was applied to the 
use of mechanical power in the processes of calendering, dressing 
and finishing. 

1863. Bakehouses. Bakehouses were controlled by an Act 
of 1863, under which the employment was prohibited of young 
persons at night, i.e., between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m., and which 
made certain regulations with regard to sanitation and cleanli- 
ness. This Act was administered by local sanitary authorities, 
and bakehouses were not included in factory legislation until 
1878 (10). 

1864. Extension of the Factory Acts was made in 1864, 
when the following trades were included : manufacture of 
earthenware, of lucifer matches, of percussion caps and car- 
tridges, paper staining and fustian cutting. Power was also 
given to masters to make special rules for dangerous trades, 
subject to the approval of the Secretary of State. The taking 
of meals in certain rooms where noxious materials were handled 
was also prohibited. 

1867. Factory Act.- The powers of the Acts were strengthened 
and further extended by the Act of 1867, the provisions of 
which are distinctly complicated. The following industries 



EXTENSION OF LEGISLATION 33 

were brought within its scope : all metal trades, including blast 
furnaces and smelting of metals, foundries, engineering shops, 
manufacture of paper and gutta percha, of paper and of glass, 
the tobacco industry and the printing trade ; in addition, there 
was a clause stating that places where more than fifty persons 
were employed on industrial processes should be considered 
factories. Powers for the fencing of machinery as well as of 
shafting were taken, and to demand the removal by mechanical 
means of dust evolved during a manufacturing process, which 
might be inhaled to an injurious extent. The way in which 
provisions aimed at protecting health stole into the Acts from 
time to time must always be one of interest to the industrial 
hygienist, and we are probably safe in concluding from the 
coincidence of dates that this last power was introduced in 
consequence of the work done by Greenhow. Greenhow had 
been employed by Simon to investigate the occurrence of 
disease in industries, and his investigations had been published 
in 1861 and 1862 in the Third and Fourth Reports of the Medical 
Officer of the Privy Council. There can be little reasonable 
doubt that this provision for the removal of dust was the out- 
come of the publication of this work. Here we have something 
rather unusual, namely, that investigation carried out on 
scientific lines was embodied in an Act of Parliament. In 
contrast to work on such lines, the code of factory legislation 
up to the end of the nineteenth century may not unfairly be 
said to represent rather an outraged national conscience than 
to have been based upon scientific inquiry. 

In this year also the first Workshops Act was passed which 
applied to establishments where less than fifty people were 
employed in any manufacturing process. No children under 
eight were, under this Act, to be employed in any handicraft, 
and children from eight to thirteen could only be employed under 
the half-time system. Young persons and women might only 
be employed for twelve hours, less half an hour for meals, and 
no protected person might be employed after 2 p.m. on Satur- 
days. The duty of enforcing this Act lay with local authorities 
until 1871, when it was transferred to factory inspectors. 

1870 71. A minor Act relating to danger from spontaneous 
combustion in bleach and dyeworks was passed in 1870. Two 
other short Acts followed in 1871. The first allowed young 
persons and females of Jewish religion to work on Sundays.. 
The second prohibited the employment of children and female 
young persons in the manufacture of bricks and tiles. 

1872. A further Mines Act was passed in 1872. The Act 
applied to mines of coal, stratified ironstone, shale and fireclay ; 



84 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

it strengthened -the provisions as regards ventilation, safety- 
lamps and timbering, and placed check- weighing on a sounder 
basis, but contained no new principle in relation to health ques- 
tions. Mines Acts, so far, differ from Factory Acts in containing 
no provisions relating to hours of employment. 

In the same year a Metalliferous Mines Regulation Act was 
passed, which, in addition to providing for inspection and 
safety, called for an adequate amount of ventilation and the 
provision of accommodation for enabling the persons employed 
in the mine to dry conveniently and change their dresses. This, 
last provision anticipates by nearly half a century similar 
legislation in other fields of industry. This Act was made 
applicable to all metalliferous mines, and was based on the 
report issued in 1864 of an important Royal Commission. This 
Commission paid particular attention to the extraordinary pre- 
valence of miners' phthisis in tin and lead mines, and collected 
valuable information justifying the work of Greenhow, which 
had not long been published. Fifty years later the subject was 
again inquired into and. reported upon in 1902(16). The 
prevalence of miners' phthisis had not only not diminished in 
the interval, it had become more pronounced. Yet again it 
was the subject of careful and thorough investigation by a 
Royal Commission, which reported in 1914 (15). Amendments 
of minor importance were made to this Act in 1875, 1882, and 
1891. 

1874. In 1874 a further Factory Act was passed, the main 
provisions of which were to raise the age for the employment of 
children from nine years to ten years, and of young persons 
from thirteen to fourteen ; to prevent the continuous employ- 
ment of protected persons for more than four and a half hours 
without half an hour interval, and to provide for attendance of 
children at recognised schools. The certifying surgeon's certifi- 
cate was changed from one of age to one of fitness. 

1878. A consolidating Act was passed in 1878, and we obtain 
here the definition of a factory which holds good still, namely : 
Premises wherein articles are made, secured, repaired, orna- 
mented, finished or adapted for sale by means of manual labour, 
for gain, if mechanical power is used on the premises. This 
Act amalgamated the provisions of the previous Factory, 
Workshops and Bakehouses Acts, and we get now for the first 
time the distinction between textile factories and non-textile 
factories ; apart from this distinction the Act w^as made to 
apply not to this or that industry or trade as heretofore, but to 
all industries and trades as defined above. The employment of 
children under ten years of age was now prohibited, and children 



FURTHER LEGISLATION 35 

were forbidden to clean machinery in motion. No new principle 
was introduced. 

XII. 18831901. 

1883. A short Act, aimed at the prevention of lead poisoning, 
was passed in 1883, which required every occupier of white 
lead factories to draw up special rules to be transmitted for 
official approval. 

1886. A Shop Hours Act became law in 1886, limiting the 
weekly period of employment of young persons under the age 
of eighteen years to seventy- four hours, including meal-times. 
Women were not included. 

1886 87. A temporary measure applicable to mines, passed 
in 1886, was followed by the Coal Mines Regulation Act, 1887. 
The principles adopted in previous mining legislation were 
consolidated and extended in this Act ; but no new ground was 
broken, notwithstanding the careful recommendations of a 
Royal Commission in reference to the use of high explosives, 
testing of safety lamps, the use of electric light in mines, and 
the introduction of ambulance provision and rescue stations. 
These matters were all reconsidered and reported on in 1909 
by a later Royal Commission. 

1889 1897. Factory Acts were passed in 1889 and 1897 
regulating the humidity and ventilation of cotton cloth factories. 

1891. A Factory Act passed in 1891 introduced other new 
provisions. A register had to be kept of out- workers, and par- 
ticulars of wages had to be given to workers in textile factories. 
Men's workshops were brought under the provision for sanitary 
requirements. A further point was that the employment of 
any woman within four weeks after childbirth was prohibited. 
The age of employable children was raised to eleven years. 
The provision of " fire-escapes " was demanded. Power was 
taken to prohibit the carrying on of processes and handicrafts 
dangerous to health, life or limb, until they were made safe, 
and also to prohibit or restrict employment in trades certified 
by the Secretary of State to be " dangerous." Laundries were 
for the first time named in the Act, but only with regard to 
sanitary provisions. 

1892. A Shop Hours Act, re-enacting the Act of 1886, was 
passed in 1892, which prohibited the employment of any young 
person for a longer period than seventy-four hours, including 
meal-times, in any one week. Enforcement of this Act was 
entrusted to county and borough councils acting through 
inspectors appointed for the purpose. Slight amendments were 
made to this Act in 1893 and 1895. 

32 



36 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

1894. Quarries; which had until 1894 been regulated as non- 
textile factories or workshops by the Factory Act in force, 
were, if over twenty feet in depth, brought under the jurisdiction 
of the inspectors of mines. The Quarries Act of this year called 
for notification of accidents, and the framing of special rules. 

1895. Local authorities were made responsible for the sanita- 
tion of factories in 1895 ; in the Act of this year power was 
taken to extend the particulars of wages clause to other than 
textile industries by order of the Secretary of State. The 
maintenance of a reasonable temperature in workrooms was 
called for. Medical practitioners were called upon to notify 
cases in their practice, suffering from anthrax, lead, phosphorus, 
mercury, or arsenical poisoning of industrial origin, and in 1897 
the first medical inspector of factories was appointed to deal 
with these notifications. A weekly limit of hours for laundries 
was fixed at thirty for children, and sixty for young persons 
and women ; but permitted children to work ten hours, young 
persons twelve, and women fourteen. 

1896 and later Mining Acts. Acts were passed, in 1896 aimed at 
the prevention of explosions of gas or dust in coal mines ; in 1900, 
forbidding in all class of mines the employment below ground of 
boys under thirteen years of age ; in 1903, regulating coal-mining 
managers' certificates ; and in 1906, an Act which, for all types of 
mines, quarries, factories and workshops, extended and made more 
stringent the obligation to notify the occurrence of accidents. 

' 1899. An Act concerned with seats for shop assistants was 
passed in 1899, which called for one seat for every three female 
assistants employed in each room. The principle of insisting on 
the provision of seats, here accepted, was not made applicable 
to factories until 1916. 

1901. Finally we arrive at the Consolidating Factory and 
Workshops Act of 1901, which is the principal Act now in force. 
It brings into one code the Acts of 1878, 1883, 1891, 1895, and 
the two Cotton Cloth Factory Acts. Further powers are also 
introduced : A standard of sufficient ventilation can be demanded 
by order, floors must be properly drained, and boilers must be 
examined and reported upon periodically. This Act raised the 
age of children to twelve years ; but for the most part it con- 
tains little new in principle, and its provisions are those already 
approved of in previous Acts, but now more exactly defined. 
The procedure for making special rules for dangerous industries 
was amended. Previously these rules, which applied to each 
individual factory and could be modified to suit the requirements 
of each establishment, were difficult to administer. Under the 
Act of 1901 the procedure was simplified and improved ; codes 



RECENT LEGISLATION 37 

of regulations are now made which apply to every factory 
included under the Application Clause of the Code. 

XIII. 1903 and later. 

1907 and later Factory Acts. Since the Act of 1901 there have 
been passed one or two additional Acts ; 1907 saw the passing of a 
Laundries Act which recognised laundries as non-textile factories, 
modified the hours permitted and provided for some regulation 
of charitable institution laundries. In 1908 the use of yellow 
phosphorus for the manufacture of matches was prohibited ; 
in 1912 a Cotton Cloth Act was passed which laid down certain 
provisions in relation to the use of humidity in weaving. 

1908. An Agricultural Children Act was passed in 1873, which 
stated that no child under eight years of age was to be employed 
in agriculture, and no child under ten unless school attendance 
was satisfactory ; but as there was no provision for* enforcing 
the statute it has been a dead letter. A Protection of Children 
Act under the administration of factory inspectors had become 
law in 1894, regulating the employment of children between the 
ages of eight and ten in public entertainments. In 1903 an 
Employment of Children Act had prohibited their employment : 
(i.) in any occupation likely to be injurious to their physical 
health and condition or their education ; (ii.) between 9 p.m. 
and 6 a.m. ; and (iii.) in street trading under the age of eleven. 
In 1908 these and other provisions were amalgamated in one Act, 
which also made illegal the employment of half-timers in any 
other occupation. 

1908. Mines Eight Hours Act. Limitation of hours of labour 
for miners was first embodied in legislation in 1908 in the Coal 
Mines Regulations Act which came into force in 1909. When 
compared with factory legislation, this limitation appears at 
first sight long delayed ; but in fact it is the first limitation of 
hours placed upon adult male labour. Female labour in mines 
required no protection as it was abolished in 1842. Juvenile 
male labour was protected, not by limitation of hours, but by 
keeping the minimum age of employment higher than that 
permitted under the Factory Acts. 

1910. A Mines Accidents (Rescue and Aid) Act was passed 
in 1910, under which provision at coal mines and metalliferous 
mines may be required by order with regard to : 

(a) The supply and maintenance of 'appliances for use in rescue 

work and the formation and training of rescue brigades ; 

(b) The supply and maintenance of ambulance appliances and 

the training of men in ambulance work. 



38 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

Here the mining industry advances ahead of factory legisla- 
tion, which did not provide for first-aid provision until 
1916. 

1911. The Coal Mines Act -at present in force was passed. 
This Act, while maintaining the provisions of previous Acts 
relating to employment underground, regulates the employment 
of women -and young persons as follows : No boy between 
thirteen and sixteen, and no girl or woman may be employed 

(a) On Sunday ; 

(b) On week days, except during the period of employment 

shown in the prescribed form of notice posted up at the 
mine. The period must not begin before 5 a.m. or end 
after 9 p.m. (or on Sunday after 2 p.m.) ; it must not 
exceed ten hours in any day excluding the meal intervals, 
and the total for the whole of the week must not exceed 
fifty-four hours ; twelve hours must be allowed between 
the end of the period of employment on one day and 
the commencement of the next period of employ- 
ment ; 

(c) Continuously for more than five hours without an interval 

of at least half an hour, or for more than eight hours in 
the day without intervals of at least one hour and a half. 
The intervals .must be specified in the notice posted up 
at the mine. A different period and different intervals 
may be fixed for different persons and different days, 
but they must not be changed oftener than once a 
quarter ; 

(d) In moving railway waggons, or in lifting, carrying or 

moving anything so heavy as to be likely to cause him 
or her injury. 

This Act also contains the following important health 
clauses : - 

Sect. 77 provides for accommodation and facilities for taking 
baths and drying clothes where the majority of the work- 
men employed in a mine desire such. Here again one of 
the provisions of factory legislation, 1916. is anticipated. 

Sect. 78 lays down that a drill worked by mechanical power 
shall not be used for drilling in ganister, hard sandstone, or 
other highly silicious rock, the dust from which is liable to 
give rise to fibroid phthisis, unless a water jet or spray or 
other means equally efficient is used to prevent the escape 
of dust into the air. 

Sect. 79 provides for the notification of disease occurring in a 
mine or occasioned by the nature of the employment. 

1916. Consecutive to the issue of reports by the Health of 



WELFARE LEGISLATION 39 

Munition Workers' Committee, important powers were incor- 
porated in the Police, Factories, etc. (Miscellaneous Provisions) 
Act, 1916. Under these powers special provision may be 
required by order for securing the welfare of factory workers. 
The matters to which an Order may apply are : " Arrangements 
for preparing or heating and taking meals ; the supply of drink- 
ing water ; the supply of protective clothing ; ambulance and 
first-aid arrangements ; the supply and use of seats in work- 
rooms ; facilities for washing ; accommodation for clothing ; 
arrangement for supervision of workers." Several valuable 
orders have already been made under these powers (see Appendix) 
which are likely to consolidate the advance in conditions of 
labour made in national factories during the war. By special 
order addition may be made to the matters of welfare enume- 
rated in the Act, and such an order has been made to include 
rest rooms. 

Workmen's Compensation. Acts of importance, though not 
strictly Occupational Acts, relating to the Workmen's Com- 
pensation, were passed in 1897, 1900, 1906 and 1918. The Acts 
of 1906 and 1918 are of special interest ; the former gave com- 
pensation to a workman suffering from any occupational disease 
included by order in a Schedule to the Act (see Appendix) ; the 
latter provides in a special way for compensation in cases of 
silicosis due to the inhalation of silica dust, and resulted from 
the report of the Royal Commission on Metalliferous Mines and 
Quarries published in 1914 (15). A committee has just reported 
upon the possible consolidation of the Compensation Acts. 

XIV. A Retrospect. 

This long series of legislative Acts cannot be properly compre- 
hended unless the social alterations which were taking place in 
the nation with unexampled rapidity are kept in mind ; not only 
was industrialism spreading at an extraordinary rate, but new 
industries were springing into existence ; the population was 
rapidly multiplying and statutes which concerned only a few 
thousands in the early part of the century affected millions at 
the close ; wealth was mounting up and also the cost of living ; 
facilities for communication and for transport at home and 
.abroad were out-distancing all expectations ; power was centring 
more and more in the hands of capital. These new conditions 
called urgently for new laws, for time would not permit leaving 
the progress of affairs to the slow establishment of reasonable 
custom. Legislation was needed to decide upon and to preserve 
some " rule of the road," and so avoid chaos. 



40 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

One fact, however, stands out as remarkable, viz. : > the 
protection extended to woman and what woman stands for the 
rising generation. The individualistic male has for the most 
part been left to fare for himself. There seems here to be legis- 
lative recognition of the supreme importance for racial continu- 
ance of protecting women and children ; of what Maeterlinck 
would claim (17) as " the spirit of the hive." 

Had this code of laws been enacted by a parliament of women, 
Schopenhauer (no admirer of women) would have claimed it to 
justify his contention (8) that woman is the creature to whom 
the race is more than the individual, the being to whom the 
future is greater than the present. On the other hand Benjamin 
Kidd (9), who holds that " // is notjn the fighting male of the 
race : it is in woman that we have the future centre of power in 
civilisation " ; and that for the future of civilisation the central 
problem is the relation of women to the needs of society, might 
claim the progress of industrial legislation as an unguided national 
effort to attain to his ideal of social power by refusing to allow 
industry to develop on lines inimical to women, unsuited to 
their capacity, and uninfluenced by their racial foresight. 

Looked at from another point of view, the student of the 
human machine, and of its requirements to maintain health and 
efficiency, is astonished first to note how the reasonable recom- 
mendations of important committees and Royal Commissions 
are passed by unheeded, while attention is paid to subjects 
pressed to the front by the uneducated voice of labour, or 
required in the interests of production. Thus the workman, 
fearing the competition of more lowly paid female and juvenile 
labour, presses for and obtains restrictions regarding their hours 
of employment, while the mine owner, to enable him to work 
deeper seams of 'coal and protect his property from explosions, 
accepts the safety-lamp and necessary ventilation. Next, 
legislation is observed seldom, if ever, to lead reform, but to 
follow in the wake of progress, adopting the procedure of the 
more advanced employers of the time. Frequently these 
employers are found seeking for legislative protection, under the 
impression that their humanitarian customs are a handicap 
which should be adopted by the rest of the trade, instead of 
being (as they actually were) a more profitable proposition than 
any so-called trade secret. 

Finally, legislation is discovered, notwithstanding eddies and 
backwaters, to be gathering volume and flowing steadily onward, 
as though sure of its own object ; the student will be inclined to 
postulate an unconscious motive not to be defined in terms of 
everyday discussion, and to hold, as did Lucretius, that first- 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 41 

beginnings do not station themselves each in its right plaee by 
keen-sighted intelligence, but : 

"Propterea fit uti magnum volgata per aevom 
Omnc genus coetus ct motus experiundo 
Tandem conveniant ea quae convecta repente 
Magnarum rerum fiunt exordia semper." * 

XV. Bibliography. 

1. Lipson, E. Economic History of England, pp. 96 et seq. A. and 
C. Black, Ltd. 1915. 

2. Hutchins, B. L., and Harrison, A. History of Factory Legisla- 
tion. P. S. King & Son. 1911. 

3. Macaulay, Lord. Works of, Vol. VIII., p. '360. 

4. Cooke-Taylor, R. W.. History of the Factory System. Richard 
Bentley&Son. 1886. 

5. Jevons, Stanley W. The State in Relation to Labour. English 
Citizen Series. Macmillan & Co. 1882. 

6. Austin, Evans. The Law Relating to Factories and Workshops. 
2nd Edition. Knight & Co. 1901. 

7. Ernest, Edler Von Plener. The English Factory Legislation. 
Translated by F. L. Weinmann. Chapman and Hall. 1873. 

8. Schopenhauer. Essay on Women. Belfort Bax's Volume of 
Selections. 

9. Kidd, Benjamin. The Science of Power. Methuen & Co., Ltd. 
1918. 

10. Cooke-Taylor, R. W. The Factory System. 2nd Edition. 
Methuen & Co., Ltd. 1912. 

11. Hammond, J. L., and Hammond, B. The Town Labourer. 
Longmans, Green & Co. 1917. 

12. Hammond, J. L., and Hammond, B. The Skilled Labourer. 
Longmans, Green & Co. 1919. 

13. Second Report of Royal Commission on Mines. (Cd. 4820.) 
1909. 

14. Life of LordS haftesbury. Vol.1. 

15. Second Report of Royal Commission on Metalliferous Mines and 
Quarries. (Cd. 7476.) 1914. 

16. Report an the Health of Cornish Miners. (Cd. 2091.) 1904. 

17. Maeterlinck, M. The Life of the Bee. George Allen. 1901. 

18. Smith, E. Health and Disease. -Walton and Mabcrly. 1861. 

19. -Bryce, J. The Holy Roman Empire. Ch. XVI. Macmillan 
& Co. 

20. Anderson, Adelaide M. Labour Legislation. Encyclopaedia 
Britannica. 

XVI. Appendix. 

In order to facilitate reference, the various Orders, Codes of 
Special Rules and Regulations now in force under the Factory Acts, 
a list of diseases scheduled under the Compensation Acts, and the 

* Lucretius, V., 428 : " Therefore it is that, after being scattered 
through aeons of time by attempting all sorts of meetings and commo- 
tions, they at length come together with unexpected concurrence, and 
become the lasting warp for mighty history." 



42 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

Orders and Regulations referring to safety and health under the 
Mines Acts, are stated below : 

CODES OF SPECIAL RULES ESTABLISHED UNDER THE 
FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1891 AND 1895. 

Manufacture of white lead. 

Handling of dry and dry-salted hides and skins from China and the 

West Coast of India. 

Vulcanising of india-rubber by means of bisulphide of carbon. 
Chemical works. Bottling of aerated waters, 

FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACT, 1901. 

Orders relating to : (a) Health ; (b) notification of diseases ; and 
(c) dangerous and unhealthy industries (other than those under 
Section 79). 

Health : 

Limewashing or washing exemption of certain factories 

(s. 1 (4) ). 
Cubic space in : (a) Workshops used as sleeping places (s. 3 (3) ) ; 

(b) bakehouses (s. 3 (2) ). 
Ventilation in humid textile factories other than cotton cloth 

factories (s. 7). 
Sanitary accommodation, fixing standard of (s. 9). 

Notification of Diseases : 

Toxic jaundice (s. 73 (4) ). 

Epitheliomatous ulceration and chrome ulceration (s. 73 (4) ). 

DANGEROUS AND UNHEALTHY INDUSTRIES (other than those 

under s. 79). 

Prohibition of taking Meals in Certain Places (s. 78). 

DANGEROUS AND UNHEALTHY INDUSTRIES. 
Regulations under Section 79. 

Benzene, manufacture of nitro and amido derivatives of, and of 

explosives with dinitrobenzol or dinitrotoluol. 
Brass, etc., casting of. Bronzing. 

Chromate and bichromate of potassium or sodium, manufacture of. 
Docks, wharves, and quays, loading or unloading, etc., at. 
Electric accumulators, manufacture of. 

Electricity, generation, transformation, distribution or use of. 
Enamelling, vitreous, of metal or glass. 

Felt hats, manufacture of (with aid of inflammable solvent). 
File-cutting by hand. 

Flax and tow, spinning and weaving of, etc. 
Grinding of metals and racing of grindstones. 
Hemp, jute, and hemp or jute tow, spinning and weaving of, etc. 
Horsehair from China, Siberia or Russia, use of. 
Lead, smelting of materials containing, manufacture of red or orange 

lead and of flaked litharge. 

Locomotives and waggons, use of on lines and sidings. 
Mules, self-acting, spinning by means of. 
Paints and colours, manufacture of. 
Pottery, manufacture and decoration of, making of lithographic 

transfers, frits or glazes. 



ORDERS 43 

Refractory materials, crushing, grinding, etc., and the manufacture 

of silica bricks. 

Ships in shipbuilding yards, construction and repair of. 
Tinning of metal hollow ware, iron drums, and harness furniture. 
Wool, East Indian, use of. 
Wool, goat hair and camel hair, sorting, willeying, washing, combing 

and carding. 
Yarn, heading of, dyed by means of a lead compound. 

ORDERS, MADE UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE POLICE, FACTORIES, ETC] 
(MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS) ACT, 1916, FOR SECURING THE 
WELFARE OF WORKERS IN FACTORIES AND WORKSHOPS.* 

Ambulance and first aid at blast furnaces, copper mills, iron mills, 

foundries and metal works. 

Ambulance and first aid at saw-mills and wood working factories. 
Dri 1 1 king water. Dyeing, use of bichromate of potassium or sodium in. 
Fruit preserving. Glass bottles and pressed glass articles, manufacture. 
Oil cake mills. Seats in shell factories. 

Tanning, use of bichromate of potassium or sodium in. 
Tin or terne plates, manufacture of. 
Laundries. 
All textile factories, printworks, bleaching and dyeing works, and 

rope spinning works with reference to providing protective 

clothing, cloakrooms, mess rooms, washing facilities, seats, first 

aid and ambulance. 

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT, 1906. 
Schedule of Diseases. 

Anthrax. Mercury poisoning or its sequelae. 

Phosphorus poisoning or its sequelae. Arsenic poisoning or its sequela?. 

Lead pqisoning or its sequelae. 

Poisoning by benzene and its homologues, or its sequelae. 

Poisoning .by nitro and amido derivatives of benzene and its homo- 
logues (trinitrotoluene, aniline, and others), or the sequelae. 

Poisoning by dinitrophenol or its sequelae. 

Poisoning by nitrous fumes or its sequelae. 

Dope poisoning ; that is, poisoning by any substance used as or in 
conjunction with a solvent for acetate of cellulose, or its sequelae. 

Poisoning by tetrachlorethane or its sequelae. . 

Poisoning by carbon bisulphide or its sequelae. 

Poisoning by nickel carbonyl or its sequelae. 

Poisoning by Gonioma kamassi (African boxwood) or its sequelae. 

Dermatitis produced by dust or liquids. 

Ulceration of the skin produced by dust or liquids. 

Ulccration of the mucous membrane of the nose or mouth produced 
by dust. Chrome ulceration or its sequelae. 

Epitheliomatous cancer or ulceration of the skin duetto tar, pitch, 
bitumen, mineral oil or paraffin, or any compound, product or 
residue of any of these substances. 

Ulceration of the corneal surface of the eye, due to tar, pitch, bitu- 
men, mineral oil or paraffin, or any compound, product or residue 
of any of these substances. 

* Further Orders are in draft relating to : 
Gut scraping. 

Manufacture of hollow-ware and process of galvanising. 
Gutting, salting and packing of herring. 



44 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION 

Scrotol epitheliorna (chimney sweep's cancer). 

Compressed air illness or its sequelae. 

Cataract in glassworkers. 

The disease known as miner's nystagmus, whether occurring in 

miners or others, and whether the symptom of oscillation of the 

eyeballs be present or not. 

Subcutaneous cellulitis of the hand (beat hand). 
Subcutaneous cellulitis over the patella (miner's beat knee). 
Acute bursitis over the elbow (miner's. beat elbow). 
Inflammation of the synovia! lining of the wrist joint and tendon 

sheaths. 

Ankylostomiasis. 
Glanders. 

Telegraphist's cramp. 
Writer's cramp. 

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION (SiLicosis) ACT, 1918. 
Refractories Industry (Silico&s) Scheme. 

METALLIFEROUS MINES REGULATION ACT, 1872 AND 1875. 

Special Rules for Ore Mines in North Wales. 
Special Rules for Installation and Use of Electricity. 
Special Rules Model Code. 

West Scotland Code. 

Newcastle Code. 

COAL MINES ACT, 1911. 
General Regulations of July 10th, 1913. 

Amending Regulations of May 19th, 1914 (Special Provisions 
for Mines "served by a Central Rescue Corps : Definition of 
" Breathing Apparatus "). 
Regulations as to Washing and Drying Accommodation, etc., 

1913. 

Regulations as to Hours of Winding Enginemen, 1913. 
Regulations as to Ganister, 1920.. 

Explosives in Coal Mines Order of September 1st, 1913. 
Amending Orders : 

Storage and Use of Detonators, Clause 1 (e), March 30th, 

1915. 

Non-detonating Explosives Extension of Period during 
which they may be Used par. 11, September 18th, 
1918. 

Revised and Consolidated List of Permitted Explosives, 
November 14th, 1919. 

Safety Lamps Orders : 

One was issued in 1913, five in 1914, four in 1915, three in 1916, 
one in 1917, three in 1918, and two in 1919. 

% 
Regulations governing : 

Form of certificate as to eyesight and hearing of firemen, 1917. 
Use below ground of apparatus for the relighting electrically of 

safety lamps, 1912. 

Search of persons employed for prohibited articles, 1912. 
Manner of testing horses for glanders, 1912. 



CHAPTER III 

THE UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS IN INDUSTRIAL 
PREVENTIVE MEDICINE 

I. Introduction. II. Longevity. III. Life Tables. IV. Mortality. 
V. Methods of Standardisation. VI. Probable Error. VII. Relia- 
bility of Data. VIII. Proportionate Mortality. IX. Morbidity. 
X. Bibliography. 

I. Introduction. 

As we have remarked in an earlier chapter, a considerable 
impetus was given to the study of -industrial conditions affecting 
health by the various commissions and inquiries promoted by 
the Government after the passing of the first Reform Act of 1832. 
This epoch saw the foundation of the General. Register Office 
soon followed by medical developments which, passing through 
such stages as the Poor Law Board, the Medical Department of 
the Privy Council, the Medical Department of the Local Govern- 
ment Board and the National Health Insurance Commission, 
have now culminated in the institution of a Ministry of Health. 

Two public servants in the early Victorian period contributed 
more than any others to the advancement of preventive medicine, 
William Farr and John Simon ; they made great use of statistics 
and statistical methods. Farr was one of the most accomplished 
and original statisticians who ever lived, while Simon, if less 
familiar with the theoretical developments of the subject, had a 
clear appreciation and competent grasp of the principles of 
quantitative reasoning. To Simon we owe many valuable 
statistical arguments, to Farr belongs the credit of initiating a 
periodic evaluation of the general effects of occupation upon 
longevity and mortality, which has been continued by his 
successors at the General Register Office, and, despite inevitable 
imperfections, is still the most useful record we have. 

In order that the reader may be able to utilise official statistics, 
and in his own work employ profitably statistical methods, he 
needs some acquaintance with the principles of statistical science. 
It is not possible to incorporate in this treatise an elementary 
text-book of statistical methods (1), or even to absolve the 
student of official tables from the necessity of reading the intro- 
ductory and explanatory matter there to be found ; but it may 
help him if we make a few observations upon the aspects of 



46 UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS 

statistical science which are peculiarly relevant to the art of 
industrial preventive medicine. 



n. Longevity. 

Stated broadly, the problem it is desired to solve is to measure 
the influence of any occupation upon the health of those engaged 
therein, it being tacitly understood that the influence in question 
is measurable in quantitative terms. The measure which at 
once suggests itself is longevity ; and one asks whether on the 
average persons of the same age entering two different industries, 
let us say coal mining and shoe making, live the same or a 
different number of years. 

It must be remarked at once that the solution of this problem 
would not suffice to measure the unique influence of the occupa- 
tion upon health. It would only do so if the physical and social 
class from which coal miners and shoe makers were recruited 
was uniform, and if neither occupation specially attracted 
particular types, particular individuals, from that class ; if, 
further, the industries were carried on under a common extra- 
industrial environment, i.e., if geographical situation and home 
environment Were identical for coal miners and shoe makers ; 
and, lastly, if transfers from one industry to another during the 
period of observation could be accurately enumerated. 

These provisoes and limitations are of importance, and we 
shall have to discuss them later on ; at the moment we confine 
ourselves to the problem as above stated. 

The average longevity of a group of persons is in practice by 
no means easy to ascertain, although in theory simple enough. 
Were we able to secure a number of persons born on the same 
day, to enter particulars respecting .them upon cards, and to 
keep these cards up-to-date by noting the time of death, holding 
the records open until the last survivor had perished, our task 
would be an extremely simple one ; sorting the cards, we should 
find that of the original n persons, aged each m years, n died in 
the first year of observation, n 2 in the second year of observation, 
and so forth. The average after-lifetime of the sample would be 
merely the sum of the number of years actually lived by them 
divided by the original number, n, of persons. A person who 
died three months after the cards were commenced would con- 
tribute a quarter of a year to the grand total of time lived, a 
person' who lived ten years and six months would contribute ten 
and a half years to the totah, and so on. A proper compre- 
hension of so simple (and altogether impracticable) a scheme 
as this will save the reader from statistical blunders, which will 



EXPECTATION OF LIFE 



47 



continue to be made by some medical men and journalists for a 
long time to come, and which we now proceed to illustrate. 

TABLE 1. After History of 1,000 Persons observed from Age 
Thirty to Death. 



(1) 

Age (x). 


No. of persons 
attaining this 
age, x (l x ). 


(3) 
^o. of per ons 
dying before 
attaining the 
age, x + 1 
<**). 


(l) 
Age (x). 


(2) 
Sfo. of persons 
attaining this 
age, x (l x ). 


(3) 
No . of persons 
dyin? before 
attaining the 
age, x + 1 
(d x ). 


30 


1,000 


8 


63 


595 


22 


31 


992 


8 


64 


573 


23 


32 


984 


7 


65 


550 


24 


33 


977 


8 


66 


526 


25 


34 


969 


9 


67 


501 


25 


35 


960 


8 


68 


476 


26 


36 


952 


8 


69 


450 


27 


37 


944 


9 


70 


423 


27 


38 


935 


9 


71 


396 


27 


39 


926 


9 


72 


369 


28 


40 


917 


9 


73 


341 


28 


41 


908 


9 


74 


313 


28 


42 


899 


10 


75 


285 


27 


43 


889 


10 


76 


258 


27 


44 


879 


10 


77 


231 


26 


45 


869 


11 


78 


205 


25 


46 


858 


11 


79 


180 


24 


47 


847 


11 


80 


156 


23 


48 


836 


12 


81 


138 


20 


49 


824 


12 


82 


113 


20 


50 


812 


13 


83 


93 


17 


51 


799 


13 


84 


76 


15 


52 


786 


14 


85 


61 


13 


53 


772 


15 


86 


48 


11 


54 


757 


15 


87 


. 37 


9 


55 


742 


16 


88 


28 


8 


56 


726 


16 


89 


20 


6 


57 


710 


17 


90 


14 


4 


58 


693 


18 


91 


10 


4 


59 


675 


19 


92 


6 


2 


60 


656 


19 


93 


4 


1 


61 * 


637 


21 


94 


3 


2 


62 


616 


21 


9 


1 


1 



For purposes of exposition we can simplify the scheme still 
further by supposing our table relates to persons thirty years 
old at the commencement ; that on the average every one who 
dies between the anniversaries of his birthday is alive for pre- 
cisely six months between these termini ; and that the table 
relates to 1,000 persons who died out as shown (see Table 1). 



48 UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS 

The sum of the column headed (3) is 1,000, so that all the 1,000 
persons died before the ninety-sixth birthday (the example is 
modified from a real life table). Now suppose we ascertain how 
many years on the average these 1,000 people lived after the 
thirtieth birthday ; then conformably to our hypothesis, the 
8 people who died before the age of 31 lived 6 months each or 
4 years in all, the 8 who died before the next birthday 8 X lj 
years, and so on. The table gives us in this way an aggregate 
of 34,721 years of life or 34'7 years per head of the original 1,000, 
i.e., the expectation of life is 34'7 years. As all these people 
were 30 years old at the commencement, the average age at 
death must be 30 plus 34 '7 years or 64*7 years. Let us now 
confine our attention to those who lived to the age of 40 ; we 
find by applying the same method that at age 40 the expectation 
of life is 27'4 years, and therefore the average age at death 
67*4 years. Hence if we found that of two occupations, the 
average age at death was greater in the one than the other, we 
could not infer anything to the prejudice of one without informa- 
tion as to the average age at entrance. 

The fallacy of comparing average ages at death becomes still 
grosser when the death records do not refer to a stationary 
population. A life table our table illustrates its main feature 
only corresponds in its distribution of persons into age-groups to 
a real population if the numbers dropping out of the latter are 
continuously replaced by exactly the same number of persons, 
so that year by year there are living exactly the same number of 
persons. This would only happen in an industrial group if the 
numbers of entrants just balanced the losses and all losses were 
by death. When we have the deaths at ages in an industry, or 
a country, over a period within which the number of youths 
entering the industry is much larger than the number of old 
members dying, the average age at death is sure to be lower, 
and may be much lower than the expectation of life added to 
the age at entrance. Thus, to take an example from general 
vital statistics the expectation of life at birth in England and 
Wales seventy years ago was forty- one years, but the average 
age at death during the period to which the data relate was as 
low as twenty-nine. This fallacy has been so happily charac- 
terised by Farr that we cannot do better than quote (8) his 
remarks : 

" The numbers -following different professions fluctuate 
more than the general population ; the relative proportion of 
young and aged persons varies from year to year ; certain 
professions, stations and ranks are only attained by persons 
advanced in years ; and some occupations are only followed 



AGE DISTRIBUTION 49 

in youth ; hence it requires no great amount of sagacity to 
perceive that ' the mean age at death,' or the age at which the 
greatest number of deaths occurs, cannot be depended upon 
in investigating the influence of occupation, rank and pro- 
fession upon health and longevity. If it were found, upon an 
inquiry into the health of the officers in the army on full pay, 
that ' the mean age at death ' of cornets, ensigns and second 
lieutenants was twenty-two years, of lieutenants twenty-nine 
years, of captains thirty-seven years, of majors forty-four 
years, of lieutenant-colonels forty-eight years, of general 
officers ages still further advanced, and that the ages of 
curates, rectors and bishops, of barristers of seven years' 
standing, leading counsel 'and venerable judges, differed to 
an equal or greater extent, a strong case may no doubt be 
made out on behalf of those young but early-dying cornets, 
curates and juvenile barristers, whose ' mean age at death * 
.was under thirty. It would be almost necessary to make 
them generals, bishops and judges for the sake of their health. 
The assurance societies are happily so considerate and liberal 
that they do not attach the slightest importance to the mean 
age at death, but assure the lives of young men of all the 
professions at the age of twenty- four upon the assumption 
that they will live thirty- eight or at the least thirty- one years, 
and pay thirty- eight or thirty- one annual premiums on an 
average before they die ; while they make the bishops, judges 
and generals who go to insure their lives at sixty pay as if they 
would live but thirteen or fourteen years. 

" It has somewhere been stated that the ' mean age at 
death ' of dressmakers is exceedingly low, and this has been 
adduced as a proof of the destructive effects of their employ- 
ment. If the inquiries had been extended to boarding schools, 
or to the boys at Christ's Hospital, the ' mean age at death ' 
would have been found still lower. Mr. Grainger states, in 
his interesting report, that the majority of dressmakers are 
between the ages of sixteen and twenty-six ; and it is under- 
stood that if they die after they marry, they are not often 
designated by that title in the register. This source of error 
and .the increase of population will be found to affect the 
estimate of the influence of other occupations. That the lives 
of dressmakers are very much shortened by the severe hard- 
ships and ignorant mistreatment to which they are exposed 
cannot be doubted ; but false arguments injure instead of 
aiding their cause." 

Since the conditions enabling us to deduce the average longe- 
vity from the average age at death are hardly ever fulfilled, it 



50 UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS 

is necessary in order to determine the former average that we 
should construct a life table. 

III. Life Tables. 

The actual technic of constructing a life table is easy enough 
to understand, although its application involves a great deal of 
troublesome arithmetic. We shall merely expound the general 
principles, because in the report by Mr. George King which is 
included (2) in the list of references at the end of the chapter 
the student will find sufficient arithmetical illustrations to 
enable him, if he chooses, to construct a life table for himself 
Xvithout any more knowledge of mathematics than all moderately 
well-educated persons have (see also (3) ). 

Let us suppose to be known the numbers living in different 
age groups at the beginning and end of a period, and the numbers 
of deaths also occurring in these age groups at the middle of 
that period, for instance the number of inhabitants of England 
and Wales (males) in age groups from ten years upwards at the 
middle of 1910 and again at the middle of 1912, and also the 
number of deaths in these age groups in 1911 ; then the ratio 
of deaths to the populations (i.e., the death-rate) in age groups 
can be calculated. Owing to misstatements of age (for instance, 
the preference for round numbers which leads to an exaggeration 
of the numbers said to be aged equal multiples of 5 and 10, so 
that too many people are recorded as aged twenty and too few 
as nineteen or twenty- one), it is impracticable to base the calcula- 
tion upon the records at single years' intervals, and pivotal values 
for single years of age are obtained by forming sums of grouped 
ages and using an interpolation formula ; the same method is 
used for deaths, and we thus obtain mean annual death rates 
for ages twelve, seventeen, etc. Now, if we know the death rate 
at age x it is easy to find the piobability that a person x years 
old will not live to be x plus one year old. In fact, this pro- 
bability is equal to twice the death rate divided by 2 plus the 
death rate (it is a little unfortunate that while the former con- 
stant, the death rate of popular language,* is termed by actuaries 
the central death rate, the second, less familiar constant, the 
probability of death within the next twelve months, is named 
" rate of mortality " ; to avoid any confusion we can always 
denote it by the letter q). Having thus obtained a series of 
values of q for different years of life, the values of q or any. 
function of it for intervening years are obtained by interpoja- 

* Or rather Tn Y>o of the popular " death rate," since we usually refer to 
deaths per 1,000, not per unit. 



LIFE TABLES 



51 



tion. A variety of methods are available ; that used in preparing 
the most recent English life tables, due to Sprague, is known as 
osculatory interpolation and tolerably easy to handle. In this 
way a complete sequence of g's can be constructed for persons 
aged say fifteen years and upwards. The methods of preparing 
the data at earlier ages would take long to describe and are of 
less interest for industrial purposes. When q has been deter- 
mined we can compute the numbers dying in each year of life 
from an arbitrary number of entrants, the expectation of 
life, etc. We give below, in Table 2, extracts from certain life 
tables which are of interest. The Lancashire Life table was 
graduated by a different method from that used for the others, 
but the difference is of little moment from the point of view of 
comparative results. 

TABLE 2. Value of the Expectation of Life shown by 
various recent Life Tables. 











Lancashire 


1? 










(Nathan, " Trans- 


cc o'c" 


Age. 


English Life Table 
No. 8 (1910-12). 


English Life Table 
No. 7 (1901-10). 


County of London 
(1911-12). 


actions Man- 
chester Statistical 
Soc., Session 


|H| 










1917-18," 
pp. 81-106). 


It 




Males. 


Females. 


Males. 


Females. 


Males. 


Females. 


Males. 


Females. 


Males. 


15 


48-57 


51-44 


47-31 


50-08 


46-74 


51-13 


45-42 


48-46 


47-58 


20 


44-21 


47-10 


43-01 


45-77 


42-35 


46-71 


41-13 


44-23 


43-36 


25 


40-00 


42-80 


38-86 


41-54 


38-06 


42-29 


36-93 


39-99 


39-38 


30 


35-81 


38-54 


34-76 


37-36 


33-87 


37-94 


32-83 


35-78 


35-49 


35 


31-71 


34-37 


30-79 


33-31, 


29-84 


33-71 


28-85 


31-63 


31-68 


40 


27-74 


30-30 


26-96 


29-37 


26-03 


29-67 


25-02 


27-62 


27-96 


45 


23-92 


26-34 


23-27 


25-53 


22-45 


25-82 


21-36 


23-80 


24-31 


50 


20-29 


22-51 


19-76 


21-81 


19-09 


22-17 


17-93 


20-17 


20-76 


55 


16-89 


18-87 


16-48 


18-27 


15-95 


18-66 


14-77 


16-71 


17-38 


60. 


13-78 


15-48 


13-49 


15-01 


13-09 


15-39 


11-92 


13-47 


14-29 


65 


10-99 


12-36 


10-80 


11-99 


10-51 


12-34 


9-43 


10-57 


11-54 


70 


8-53 


9-58 


8-39 


9-35 


8-17 


9-57 


7-32 


8-11 


9-08 



If all that is required is an abbreviated table showing the 
probability of dying within five years and the expectations of 
life at five-yearly intervals, much labour can be saved in the 
second stage of the above-described process ; for practical 
details Mr. King's report should be consulted. 

The essential data for making a life table are (1) a knowledge 
of the average age distribution of the population ; (2) the 
distribution of deaths by ages. It is indeed possible upon 
certain assumptions to compute a life table from a knowledge of 
deaths at ages alone. This is of course quite easy if we know 



52 UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS 

that the population 'is stationary ; it can be done, even when 
this is not so, upon certain assumptions (4), but to do so involves 
a great deal of labour, and the validity of the assumptions 
involved needs confirmation. 

IV. Mortality. 

Owing to the difficulty of obtaining data fulfilling the require- 
ments of the last paragraph, longevity has seldom been taken 
as a standard of comparison between industrial groups ; use has 
been made of mortality or morbidity rates ; each of these is 
subject to the same criticisms, and since mortality rates have 
been far more widely employed, we confine our remarks to them. 

A death rate in current practice means the per cent, or per 
mille ratio of deaths occurring in a population over an assigned 
period (most frequently one year) to the estimated population 
at the middle of the year. The simplest comparison is of this 
form, no regard being paid to the age constitution of the popula- 
tion, and such a rate is called a crude or unstandardised rate. 

The objections to a comparison of crude mortality rates when 
it is a matter of industrial groups are obvious ; owing to differ- 
ences of age constitution, the comparison of crude rates may be 
very misleading. A stock case (9) is that in the Swiss experience 
1879 90 ; the crude rate of mortality for farmers, etc. (Land- 
wirtschaft), was 21*2 per mille, for watchmakers 18*2, and 
for employed males 20 -9. The excessive crude mortality of the 
farmers was due, not to the unhealthiness of their occupation, 
but to the larger proportion of occupied males at later ages, when 
more deaths naturally occur (in Switzerland the proportion of 
farmers over fifty was nearly 32 per cent., of watchmakers only 
15 '7 per cent.) ; after allowance had been made for this the 
relative mortality of watchmakers proved to be much greater 
than that of farmers. 

V. Methods of Standardisation. 

The difficulty was realised in the treatment of general vital 
statistics many years ago, and a method of standardising or 
correcting the crude rate devised to surmount it. There are 
two such methods, one of which requires a knowledge of both 
ages at death and the average age distribution of the two or more 
groups it is desired to standardise ; the second method depends 
upon a knowledge of the average age distributions of the popula- 
tions compared, but supposes that the ages at death are not 
known. 



STANDARDISATION 



53 



In the former method the death rates at each age group of 
each occupation, or other aggregate, are computed. -A standard 
population is then chosen (for instance, the population of England 
and Wales m 1901), and the death rates computed for the occu- 
pational age group are applied to each corresponding age group 
in the standard population. The sum of the deaths derived in 
this way divided by the standard population gives the stan- 
dardised or corrected death rate of the occupation. 

The second method of correction the counterpart of that 
just described is to choose a standard population as before, 
and also to take certain death rates at each age group as stan- 
dards. These standard death rates are then applied to the 
population in the age groups of the occupation ; the sum of 
deaths thus reckoned divided by the occupational population 
gives a potential death rate which would have been realised in 
the occupation if its rates of mortality at ages had been the 
same as in the standard. The ratio of the standard death rate 
(all ages) to this potential rate is known as the " standardising 
factor." The actually observed crude rate of mortality in the 
occupational group is then multiplied by this factor, that is, 
multiplied by the crude standard mortality, and divided by the 
potential crude death rate in the occupation, and the result is 
taken to be the standardised mortality rate. 

TABLE 3. Occupied Males in Industrial 
Districts (1900-2). 



Age group. 


Years of 
life.* 


Deaths. 


Death rate 
per 1,000. 


1520 


1,187,061 


3,151 


2-65 


2025 


1,189,341 


5,379 


4-52 


2535 


2,014,302 


13,024 


6-47 


3545 


1,511,544 


18,526 


12-26 


4555 


1,051,485 


23,263 


22-12 


5565 


575,952 


22,565 


39-18 


65 


218,604 


21,435 


98-05 


Total 


7,748,289 


107,343 


13-85 



The second method of correction can in general lead to the 
same result as the first only if the ratio of the death rates in the 
occupational group and in the standard population is the same 

* Deaths are taken over three years : 1900, 1901, and 1902 ; and so 
this is three times the mean population of 1901, the census year. 



54 UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS 



at all ages, which is seldom true. In practice the former method 
is the more important in industrial comparisons, although it 
may happen that the second plan is to be preferred when the 
total number of deaths in the occupation is small. 

TABLE 4. Occupied Males in Agricultural 
Districts. 



Vge group. 


Years of 
life. 


Deaths. 


Death rate 
per 1,000. 


1520 


661,260 


1,290 


1-95 


2025 


525,798 


2,213 


4-21 


2535 


893,781 


4,614 


5-16 


3545 


784,014 


5,619 


7-17 


4555 


610,221 


7,158 


11-73 


5565 


447,492 


10,083 


22-53 


65 


313,359 


26,661 


85-08 


'otal 


4,235,925 


57,638 


13-61 



TABLE 5. All Males. 



Age group. 


Years of 
life. 


Deaths. 


Death rate 
per 1,000. 


1520 


4,822,566 


16,833 


3-49 


2025 


4,417,932 


21,084 


4-77 


2535 


7,457,862 


47,608 


6-38 


3545 


5,795,829 


63,406 


10-94 


4555 


4,188,627 


78,196 


18-67 


5565 


2,723,835 


94,799 


34-80 


65 


1,983,216 


187,641 


94-61 


Total 


31,389,867 


509,567 


16-23 



Some writers have asserted or implied that it is a matter of 
indifference what standard population is chosen, just as it is a 
matter of indifference whether a foot-rule is made of one wood 
or another ; this is not true. When we compare the mortalities 
of two occupations, the ratio of their standardised mortalities 
is, say, A/B if a standard population, X, say, is used ; when 
another standard, Y, is used, the ratio becomes A'/B', which 
need not be equal to A/B. We shall not discuss the algebraical 
theory of the matter, but proceed to give a few illustrations. 



STANDARDISATION 



55 



TABLE 6. Deaths at Ages which would have occurred in (he 
Population of Table 5 had the Death Rates of Tables 3 and 4 
applied. 



Age groups. 


Deaths at industrial 
rate. 


Deaths at 
agricultural rates. 


1520 
20 25 
2535 
35 45 
4555 
5565 
65 












12,779-8 
19,969-1 
48,252-4 
71,056-9 
92,652-4 
106,719-9 
194,454-3 


9,404-0 
18,599-5 
38,482-6 
41,556-1 
49,132-6 
61,368-0 
168,732-0 


Totals . . . ' . 


545,884-8 


387,274-8 



Standardised 
per 1,000 



rates ) 1,000x545,884-8 
)' 31,389,867 



1,000x387,274-8 
~~31^897867~ 



TABLE 7. Deaths at Ages which would have occurred in the 
Populations of Tables 3 and 4 had the Death Rates of 
Table 5 applied to them. 



Age groups. 


Industrial 
districts. 


Agricultiiral 
districts. 


1520 
2025 
2535 
3545 
45 55 
5565 
65 











4,142-8 
5,673-2 
12,851-2 
16,536-3 
19,631-2 
20,043-1 
20,682-1 


2,307-8 
2,508-1 
5,702-3 
8,577-1 
11,392-8 
15,572-7 
29,646-9 


Totals .... 


99,559-9 


75,707-7 



Computed crude poten- j 1,000x99,559-1 
tial rates per 1,000 | 7,748,289 

Correction or standard- | 16-23_ 1 Qfi _ 
ising factors I 12-85 

Standardised mortality | 
(death) rate ] 



= 12-85 ; 



1,000 x 75,707-7 
4,235,925 



17-87 



9R o 17 dq 
-2b3 = 17-49 



1361 x -908= 12-36 



We will standardise the mortality of males in industrial and 
males in agricultural districts as recorded by the Registrar- 
General. The data are set out in Tables 3 and 4. Let us first 
take as the standard the age distribution of all males, which was 
as shown in Table 5. Applying the industrial and agricultural 
death rates at ages to the age groups of the standard, we have 
the following Table 6, which gives the standard mortality by 
this method. Passing to the second method, we apply the 



56 



UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS 



death rates at different ages in the standard population (tables) 
to the ages of the two groupings, and we reach the results 
contained in Table 7. The standardised rates obtained by the 
second method are not identical with -those of the first ; the 
explanation is that the death rates at ages in the two populations 
compared do not bear the same proportion to the corresponding 
rate in the standard population at all ages. 

In order to see the effect of adopting a different standard 
population we will employ an age distribution which would 
occur if the male population were stationary, the birth equal 
to the death rate, the latter approximately that of 1911. 
Table 8 shows the resulting age distribution. Using this as the 
standard, we obtain the results shown in Table 9. 



TABLE 8. Age Distribution of a 
Life Table Population. 



Age group. 



1520 
2025 
2535 
3545 
4555 
5565 
65 



Total 



Years of life. 



4,002,561 
3,938,451 
7,634,512 

7,184,870 
6,460,430 
5,259,578 
5,000,003 



39,480,405 



TABLE 9. Results of Methods of Standardisation when the 
Standard Age Distribution is that of Table 8. 



Standardised rates by method of Table 6 
Standardising factors .... 
Standardised rates by second method . 


Industrial 
districts. 


Agricultural 
districts. 


25-46 
*23-77 


18-62 
23-77 oo 


12-85 
25-62 


17 . 87 -133 
18-10 



Although the age distribution of the second standard differs 
very much from that of the first, as exemplified by the vast 

* This is obtained by applying the death rates at ages of Table 5 to the 
populations at ages of Table 8 and dividing by the whole population of 
Table 8. 



STATISTICAL ERROR 57 

differences between the standardised rates in the two workings, 
yet the ratios of the two standardised rates are not seriously 
divergent. Using all males as the standard, the industrial 
district mortality is 140-9 of the agricultural district rate, 
an excess of 41 per cent. ; when the life table population is used 
the excess is reduced to 37 per cent., not a very important 
change (see Table 10). The reason is that, although the weights 
assigned to different age groups are considerably changed, the 
weight of no one group is very small (12). 

TABLE 10. Percentage Ratios of the Standardised 
Death Rates using different Standards. 



Percentage ratio of industrial to agricultural district 
rates. 



Standard All males . 
Standard Life table . 


( Method 1 . . 
1 Method 2 . . 
( Method 1 . . 
{ Method 2 . . 


140-9 
141-5 
136-7 
141-5 



VI. Probable Error. 

A difficulty of another kind arises when the numbers of 
deaths and lives at risk in the various age groups of the occupa- 
tion studied are small. This difficulty is of course not peculiar 
to the use of mortality rates, but common to all statistical 
averages, and merely expresses the fact that the smaller the 
experience the less reliable the conclusions deducible from it. 

The practice of statisticians is to attach to averages computed 
from samples a quantity termed the probable error, it being 
suggested that variations within the limits of two or three times 
the probable error do not need any special explanation, but 
may be attributed to " chance " or to " errors of random 
sampling." The method of calculating these criteria of relia- 
bility of course depends upon the form of the average it is 
desired to test ; to give technical details would involve the 
incorporation of matter which properly belongs to a text-book 
of statistical method. 

A test which is usually sufficient is to calculate : 



and 



58 UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS 

Here A s is the "population aged s in the standard, A, 
p s the standard death rate (not per 1,000, but per unit) at 
age s (q s = 1 - p s \ 

a s and d s \ , . . , . 

, ., > numbers living and dying. 
a s and d s \ 

at age s in the contrasted groups. 

If (1) is more than three or four times as large as the square 
root of (2), it is unlikely that the divergence of the two series 
is due to errors of sampling. 

Tables 11 and 12 illustrate the method upon a couple of tables 
in the Registrar- General's abstract of industrial mortality 
statistics. 

The test we have employed is the simplest available method, 
and is an imperfect one, because any attempt to summarise 
the meaning of a complex table in a single arithmetical average 
must fail ; to pursue the matter further would involve a dis- 
cussion of technicalities out of place in a book such as this, 
and the reader is advised to consult the paper by Pearson and 
Tocher cited at the end of the chapter (6). 

VII. Reliability of Data. 

No statistical tests of the kind we are now discussing can in 
any way guarantee the material accuracy of the data. It is 
quite true that any arithmetical differences which do not satisfy 
the tests cannot be used as a basis for reasoning ; but it is not 
true that to survive the arithmetical peine forte et dure is all 
that is needful before inferences are safe. The application of 
an arithmetical test presupposes that the aggregates tested 
are in pari materia, that, for example, the material accuracy 
of the statements of age, of the occupational descriptions, and 
of the separation into employed and retired, is the same in 
Lancashire on the one hand and in Northumberland and 
Durham upon the other. Before elaborate arithmetical calcula- 
tions are made, the student is advised to test such points as 
these. The caution is especially needed when a comparison is 
made between the death rates in occupations for different years 
and particular diseases. The death rate of some disease may 
be found to have varied in a manner which is arithmetically 
significant ; that is to say, the difference is so great that, taking 
into consideration the numbers recorded, it could not plausibly 
be supposed to have arisen by chance. But the inference 
that the disease has increased (or diminished) may be wide of 
the mark. The explanation may be either that a change of 
classification has been made or that the fashion of diagnosis 
has varied. 



RELIABILITY OF DATA 



59 



TABLE 11. 

(From Supplement to Sixty-fifth Annual Report of the Registrar- 
General.) 



(a) 



Age group. 


Years of life. 


Deaths. 




Durham and 




Durham and 






Northumber- 


Lancashire 


Northumber- 


Lancashire 




land coal 


coal miners. 


land coal 


coal miners. 




miners. 




Miners. 




1520 . 


64,560 


39,447 


203 


144 


2025 . 


59,373 


42,561 


290 


207 


25 35 . 


101,934 


70,590 


463 


424 


3545 . 


72,477 


50,298 


490 


454 


4555 . 


49,314 


32,970 


680 


575 


55 65 . 


26,496 


13,440 


838 


570 


-65 


7,014 


2,745 


1,090 


375 



DEATH RATES PER 1,000. 



Ages. 


1520. 


2025. 


2535. 


3545. 


4555. 


5565. 


65 


All coal miners . 


3-20 


4-47 


4-93 


7-65 


14-67 


35-98 


139-82 


Durham and Northum- 
















berland coal miners . 


3-14 


4-88 


4-54 


6-76 


13-79 


31-63 


155-40 


Lancashire coal miners 


3-65 


4-86 


6-01 


9-03 


17-44 


42-41 


136-61 



TABLE 12. Comparison of Mortality Rates in Two 
Groups of Coal Miners. 



Age 
group. 


**_#* 

a a', 


*, 

A 


-P&s 


(!-_ d lVi 

X a' 9 )2 


(^ 


i.+ 


/I , 1 V^\ 2 

P#*\a* + *J(j). 


1520 
2025 
2535 
3545 
4555 
5565 
65 


-00051 
+ 00002 
-00147 
-00227 
-00365 
- : 01078 
+ 01879 


16835 
16492 
27944 
18922 

12287 
05878 
01641 


003190 
004450 
004906 
007591 
014455 
034685 
120270 


-00008586 
+ 000003:50 
-00041078 
-00042953 
- -00044848 
-0006:W.;> 
+ 00030834 


0283417 
0271986 
0780867 
0358042 
0150970 
0034551 
0002693 


0000408 
0000403 
0000240 
0000337 
00005-06 
0001121 
0005069 


0000000037 
0000000049 
0000000092 
0000000092 
0000000110 
0000000134 
0000000164 


Totals 











-00169666 








0000000678 



Explanation. The second column gives the differences between corresponding entries 
in the second and third lines of Table 11 (b) divided by 1,000. The third column gives 
the proportion living in each age group of all occupied coal miners (used as the " standard " 
population). The fourth column contains the products of each entry in the first line of 
Table 11 (6), divided by 1,000, and unity less this quantity; e.g., at age fifteen to 
twenty we have -00320 x -99680 = -0031898. The fifth and sixth columns are self- 
explanatory. The seventh column gives the sums of the reciprocals of corresponding 
entries in the second and third columns of Table 11 (a). The square root of the s\im of 
entries in column 8 is -0002604, and the sum of entries in column 5 is -0016966. The 
ratio of the latter to the former is 6-52 ; hence it is very unlikely that the system of 
differences has arisen by chance, or, in other words, that the mortality of Durham and 
Northumberland coal miners is really identical with that of coal miners in Lancashire. 
This case has only been chosen to illustrate the arithmetic. 



60 UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS 

Many statisticians explained in this way the rapid increase of 
the recorded mortality from cancer in England and Wales, 
and although, in this particular instance, it is now certain that 
nothing like the whole of the increase can be so explained, the 
principle involved is an important one, especially so to the 
student of industrial hygiene. 

VIII. Proportionate Mortality. 

Lastly, we have to consider what information can be derived 
from statistics of deaths at ages when the number and ages of 
the living are unknown. The question is, Given a knowledge 
of the total deaths occurring between certain age limits and the 
number of such deaths attributed to a single disease for each of 
a series of groups, how far do fluctuations of the ratio of deaths 
due to the specified disease -to all deaths at that age, or, if we 
prefer it, the ratio of deaths from the specified disease to all 
other deaths at that age, measure fluctuations of incidence 
of the disease in question ? Such measure is known as the 
proportionate mortality, and is usually expressed as a per- 
centage. 

The importance of this question arises from the fact that it 
is much easier to obtain a record of a reasonably large number 
of deaths amongst persons known to have followed a specified 
occupation than to secure in addition a census at ages of 
the persons among whom these deaths have occurred. For 
example, the records of 500 deaths of stone masons in Man- 
chester might be collected over a period of twenty to thirty 
years ; but not even an approximate estimate could be made of 
the number and ages of stone masons employed, some perhaps 
only for a few months, in Manchester during that period. 

The proportionate mortality rate of a disease (i.e., the ratio 
of deaths from that disease to all deaths at the age) cannot 
of course give us as reliable information as the actual death 
toll, since we have one less datum. It might happen, for instance, 
that the proportionate mortalities from a given disease in two 
industries were identical although the incidence of the disease 
was much heavier upon one of the occupations than upon the 
other ; thus, if the death rates from the disease and also the 
death rates from all other diseases were in the ratio of two to 
one, the proportionate mortality rates would be equal. But 
the essence of statistical reasoning is to determine whether a 
theoretical objection unequivocally sound does really specify 
practically important difficulties. In this instance we have to 
learn whether in practice the inference from a high propor- 



PROPORTIONATE MORTALITY 61 

tionate mortality rate that the real incidence rate of the disease 
is high is justified. 

The point has been tested in two ways. One of us found (10) 
that in a series of the Registrar-General's occupational groups 
the proportionate mortality from bronchitis varied with the 
actual mortality rate ; when one exceeded the average the other 
did too. 

Tebb and one of us (11) investigated the problem in a slightly 
different way. To make this intelligible a further explanation 
of statistical terms is necessary. When we have two variable 
quantities their tendency to vary together is measured by 
calculating an average called the coefficient of correlation, 
which takes the value when the two variables are independent 
one of another, and the value + 1 when they are inseparably 
connected ; when the correlation is -j- 1, the two increase 
absolutely pari passu ; when it is 1, the increase of one is 
inseparably connected with the decrease of the other. Any 
intermediate value of the correlation implies an intermediate 
degree of association ; when the correlation . is ascertained, 
the probable value of one variable for a given value of the other 
can be predicted with an accuracy increasing with the size of 
the coefficient of correlation. 

Using this method, it was found that the correlation at ages 
thirty-five to forty-five between the proportionate mortality 
from phthisis and the death rate from phthisis in the Registrar- 
General's occupational groups (mortality experience of 1900-2) 
(7) was as much as -754 + '04. Applying the method to the 
mortality experience of 168 large registration districts (popula- 
tions of each more than 50,000), the correlation proved to be 
629 + -03 (deaths at ages thirty-five to forty-five from phthisis 
in 1890 1900) ; applying the resulting equation connecting the 
proportionate mortality with the death rate to the prediction of 
death rate from proportionate mortality, it appeared that, from 
a knowledge of the proportionate mortality within a group of 
districts, the average true mortality could be inferred with fair 
accuracy, although individual predictions might be much in 
excess or defect of the truth. 

Proportionate mortality rates may of course be corrected or 
standardised. In Table 13 we give for a series of occupations the 
proportionate mortality from phthisis, i.e., the percentage of 
deaths from all causes due to phthisis. To admit of comparison 
without disturbance due to age differences, we may proceed as 
follows. In Table 14 are shown the deaths from all causes at 
certain ages in the whole population of occupied and retired 
males ; we apply to these the percentages of Table 13, and thus 



62 



UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS 



obtain the appropriate entries in Table 15, which are the num- 
bers of deaths from phthisis which would have been observed in 
the whole population of occupied and retired males had the 
percentages of the Table 13 held. If we now express the entries 
of Table 15 as percentages of the first entry in that table we 
reach the figures given in the last column of Table 16. The 
column in that table headed " True " is deduced from the 
Registrar-General's comparative mortality figures (we have 
expressed the others as a percentage of the figure for all occupied 
and retired males, which, in the Registrar-General's notation, is 
not 100 but 187). 

TABLE 13. Proportionate Mortality from Phthisis in Certain 
Occupations. (From the Registrar-General's Statistics, 
1900-2.) 



Age group. 


Butchers, 


Cotton 
manu- 
facturers. 


Tailors. 


Shoe- 
makers. 


2535 


33-1 


36-5 


45-6 


49-4 


3545 


24.3 


30-0 


38-3 


42-5 


4555 


138 


17-7 


21-1 


24-0 


5565 


5-4 


6-5 


9-1 


9-4 



TABLE 14. Deaths from all Causes 
at certain Ages of all Occupied 
and Retired Males. 



Age group. 



Deaths. 



A. 
B. 
C. 

D. 
E. 



TABLE 15. 

52,077 . 
46,055 . 
55,192 . 

69,596 . 
76,472 . 



2535 


46,293 


3545 


62,116 


4555 


76,841 


5565 


93,217 


Total deaths . 


278,467 



-Deaths from Phthisis at Age Groups 25 65. 

Actually recorded for all occupied and retired males. 

" Expected " from butchers' proportionate mortality. 

" Expected " from cotton manufacturers' propor- 
tionate mortality. 

" Expected " from tailors' proportionate mortality. 

" Expected " from shoemakers' proportionate mor- 
tality. 



PROPORTIONATE MORTALITY 63 

TABLE 16. Comparative Mortality Figures for Phthisis. 






True. 


From pro- 
portion. 


All occupied and retired 


100 


100 


Butchers ..... 


97 


88 


Cotton manufacturers . 


105 


106 


Tailors . 


132 


134 


Shoemakers 


145 


147 



The index number based upon proportionate mortality in 
three cases agrees closely with that deduced from a knowledge 
of both deaths and exposed to risk ; in the fourth case the dis- 
crepancy is considerable. The reason is that the death rate from 
all causes among butchers is higher than that of all occupied and 
retired males, but the death rate from phthisis is lower and the 
fallacy mentioned above is involved. Even in this case a very 
unfavourable one, because the comparative general mortality 
figure of butchers is larger than that of any of the groups here 
compared and the comparative phthisis mortality figure lower 
the inference suggested by the proportionate mortality index is 
not very misleading. 

We could also proceed by taking all occupied and retired males 
as the standard population as regards age distribution of deaths, 
and stating the proportionate mortality of this population from 

52,077 X 100 
phthisis for age groups twenty-five to sixty-five to be 

= 18'7 ; the standardised proportionate mortality for butchers 



would then be 



46,055 X 100 



- 16-5 ; for cotton manufacturers 



278,467 
19-8 ; for tailors 24-9 ; and for shoemakers 27-1. 

The practical inference is that although, as we should have 
expected, a proportionate mortality index is not just as good, 
not nearly as good, as a true death rate, yet if we infer from a 
high proportionate mortality the existence of a high absolute 
death rate we shall usually be correct, almost always correct 
if the proportionate mortality rate is much in excess of its 
average value. 

The test of proportionate mortality we have here employed 
is, however, an unduly severe one ; it tacitly assumes that the 
material accuracies of both proportionate mortality and actual 
death rate data are on a par. But, as the estimates of popula- 
tion at ages exposed to risk are necessarily less accurate than 



64 UTILISATION OF STATISTICAL METHODS 

the enumeration of deaths at ages, on account of migration 
from occupation to occupation or from district to district, 
the real correlation between the two variables may be appre- 
ciably higher than these tests show ; this could only be deter- 
mined if we had entirely unimpeachable records of deaths and 
populations ; the nearest approximation to such records would 
be provided by the data of life offices, and it is to be hoped that 
they will be scrutinised one day from that point of view. 

We must add that a comparison of proportionate mortalities 
or, indeed, of death rates in occupations may be quite fallacious 
if the nosological attributions vary. If, for instance, current 
medical opinion inclines to regard particular occupations as 
involving special risk of specific diseases, doubtful illnesses 
occurring in those who follow the particular occupations may be 
assigned to the favourite disease (just as when some epidemic 
prevails other diseases are certified to be the reigning malady). 

Our experience leads us to think that this source of error 
may be important when the analysis of small collections of data 
is in question, or when the returns come from an area mainly 
occupied by workers in a particular industry, but that it is not 
a serious cause of embarrassment when the returns are derived 
from the certificates of a large number of practitioners scattered 
over such a country as England and Wales, 

IX. Morbidity. 

In the foregoing remarks we have spoken exclusively of 
mortality rates, but it will be obvious that the same principles 
apply to the utilisation of morbidity rates, absolute or propor- 
tionate, crude or age- standardised (of course the method of age 
standardisation can be extended to sex standardisation) ; the 
utilisable data are not, however, numerous enough to merit 
extended discussion in this chapter. The whole of the data have 
recently been collected and discussed by Mr. E. A. Rusher, F.I.A., 
of the Industrial Fatigue Research Board, in a report which 
should be carefully studied by all readers of this book. Mr. 
Rusher shows that differences of method and great changes in the 
nature of the " population exposed to risk " make it very diffi- 
cult to . compare the morbidity experiences of working class 
populations now and seventy years ago. We shall return to this 
point in the next chapter. 

In conclusion, we would impress upon the reader the import- 
ance of acquiring a sound knowledge of elementary statistical 
methods. Some branches of statistical analysis involve an 
acquaintance with mathematical technic which cannot readily 



MORBIDITY 65 

be acquired by those engaged in administrative or clinical work, 
the fate of most to whom this book is likely to appeal ; but a 
grasp of general principles and, indeed, of much technical detail 
is no harder to acquire than the knowledge of special branches 
of medicine which is an obligatory possession of candidates for 
all the more important posts in the preventive medical service. 
We do not know any book we would rather see in the hands of 
the student of industrial hygiene than an elementary work 
upon statistical methods, and we regret that more emphasis 
is not put upon the subject in the curriculum of medical students. 

X. Bibliography. 

1. Yule, G. Udny. An Introduction to the Theory of Statistics. 
5th Edition. London. 1919. (By far the best text -book in exist- 
ence.) 

2. Supplement to Seventy -fifth Annual Report of the Registrar- 
General. (Cd. 7512.) 1914.' (This is Mr. King's report on the 
English life tables, and contains full details of the method used.) 

3. Elderton and Fippard. Construction of Mortality and Sickness 
Tables. London. 1914. 

4. Fisher, Arne. " Note on the Construction of Mortality Tables." 
Proc. Casualty Actuarial and Stat. Soc. of America. IV. Part I. 
1917. 

5. Henderson, R. Mortality Laws and Statistics. London and 
New York. 1915. 

6. Pearson, K., and Tocher, J. F. " On Criteria for the Existence 
of Differential Death Rates." Biometrika, XL, p. 159. 1916. (This 
paper discusses the methods of measuring errors of sampling in the 
case of death rates.) 

7. The most important English collections of data are contained 
in the decennial supplements of the annual reports issued by the 
Registrar-General ; the last published appeared in 1908. (Cd. 
2619.) 

8. The Collected Writings of Dr. William Farr, p. 458. Edited by 
Noel Humphreys. London. 1885. 

9. Prinzing, F. Handbuch der Medizinischen Statistik. Jena. 
1906. (Contains a useful collection of material.) 

10. Collis, E. L. Industrial Pneumonoconioses. Milroy Lectures, 
1915. H.M. Stationery Office. 1919. 

11. Greenwood, M., and Tebb, A. E. " An Inquiry into the Preva- 
lence and Etiology of Tuberculosis among Industrial Workers." 
Medical Research Committee. Special Report Series, No. 22. 1919. 

12. Report of Registrar-General for England and Wales for 1917, 
p. Ixix. 

13. Rusher, E. A. " Historical Memorandum on Standard Sick- 
ness Tables in the United Kingdom." Reports of the Industrial 
Fatigue Research Board. Stationery Office. 1920. 



CHAPTER IV 

THE EFFECTS OF INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT UPON HEALTH 
AS INDICATED BY VITAL STATISTICS 

1. Pioneer Work. II. Returns of Friendly Societies. III. Manchester 
Unity Investigation. IV. Index of Trade Mortality. V. Difficulties 
of estimating Effect of Occupation on Mortality. VI. Result of 
using Brownlee's Method. VII. Relation between Industrial Mor- 
tality and Social Unrest. VIII. Morbidity. IX. Bibliography. 

I. Pioneer Work. 

THE classical work upon industrial hygiene, that of 
Ramazzini (1), contains no statistics, while the numerical data 
at the disposal of our English pioneer, Thackrah (2), were very 
scanty, but in the early years of Victoria's reign the establish- 
ment of the General Register Office and the activities of the 
Statistical Society (founded in 1834) led to the production of a 
long series of official reports and private researches which throw 
light upon the subject of this chapter. In those times muc^i 
greater stress was put upon the evils of defective sanitation in 
the popular sense than upon special factors of industrial life 
in causing the heavy mortality which characterised then and, 
mutatis mutandis, still characterises industrial cities. The late 
Edwin Chadwick* contributed much to influence the public in 
this direction (3) ; and although his choice of statistical methods 
was sometimes unfortunate (13), the general value of his 
researches was incontestable. 

II. Returns of Friendly Societies. 

The first statistical writer to challenge the doctrine that 
sanitation was the paramount factor in determining rates of 
mortality and morbidity was Neison, who contributed an impor- 
tant paper to the Journal of the Statistical Society in 1845, 
subsequently expanded into a volume, which reached a third 
edition in 1857 (4). Neison' s principal data were derived from 
the sickness and mortality returns of the British friendly 
societies for the quinquennium 1836 40. He found that the 
expectation of life of males who were members of friendly 
societies was greatest in the rural districts, less in the small 
towns, and least in the great cities, a result which Chadwick 

* Another influential writer was Guy (15), who, like Thackrah, had had 
the advantage of medical training and was also an enthusiastic statis- 
tician. 



RETURNS OF FRIENDLY SOCIETIES - 67 

would naturally have attributed to the sanitary conditions of 
the cities. But Neison discovered that the difference between 
the expectations of life of different trades was much larger than 
that between the averages of all residents in different geogra- 
phical areas. For instance, at age twenty the expectation of 
life of males in rural districts was 45-36 years, in towns 42-27 
years, and in cities 40-01 years, falling to as little as 37-96 years 
in Liverpool. But clerks in all districts had an expectation of 
life at twenty of only frl-83 years, plumbers and painters 36-9 
years, bakers 40-03 years, miners 40-67 years. Neison also 
found that labourers in rural districts enjoyed an expec- 
tation of life at age twenty of 47-91 years, other male 
inhabitants of rural districts of 43-83 years, and the members 
of sixteen not very nearly related trades in rural districts 
43-89 years. In effect, leaving out of account Liverpool, the 
difference between the labourers and the otherwise occupied 
persons in rural districts was as great as between rural and city 
districts as wholes. But since the cities for economic reasons 
necessarily employed a larger percentage of their males in the 
unhealthy trades than did the rural districts, Neison concluded 
that the comparison over-rated the importance of geographical 
factors and reached the following general conclusion : 

"It is evident from all that has been said that the peculiar 
sanitary condition of large towns has not the remarkable effect 
which many have supposed in shortening the duration of life ; 
still it has some effect, and the nature and extent of that influence 
it is important to understand. But a rude estimate only can 
be made until the value of life in every important employment, 
occupation or trade has been investigated, for the various 
localities or districts, on some such plan as that given in the 
present paper ; and then, grouping or classifying a given number 
of those common to different localities, the result arrived at 
would show the precise amount of influence which a particular 
district, city or town has on the duration of life. A partial or 
limited comparison of a few trades would not be adequate to 
answer definitely this question. But an accurate combination 
of a sufficiently large number of trades would be necessary to 
guard against the effect of fluctuation." 

Finlaison's analysis (5) of friendly society experience over a 
period precisely ten years later than that of Neison' s research 
was not so complete. Expectations of life were not published, 
and only for members of the friendly societies who were resident 
in the metropolitan province are the data so presented that 
expectations can be readily computed. In that instance the 
expectation of life at age twenty is found not to differ sensibly 

52 



68 EFFECTS OF INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT 



from the result reached by Neison from the aggregate experience 
of city members (Neison's figure was 40-01 years ; we deduce 
from Finlaison's table 39-7 years). 

III. Manchester Unity Investigation. 

No attempt to carry out the large scale comparison recom- 
mended by Neison seems to have been made until Mr. (now Sir) 
Alfred Watson investigated the sickness and mortality experience 
of the I.O.O.F., Manchester Unity, over the quinquennium 
189397. The results of Watson's analysis (6) led him to 
express a conclusion which reverses the order of importance 
assigned by Neison sixty years earlier to the several factors of 
mortality. Neison found that both geographical situation and 
occupation influenced mortality, the latter more than the former ; 
Watson was led to put more emphasis upon the geographical 

TABLE 1. 



Area. 


Ages. 


Percentage of actual to 
expected deaths. 


1 . 


1644 
4564 
65 


Group A. 


Group H. 


49 
63 
81 


61 
81 
94 


2 . 


1644 
4564 
65 


61 
74 
103 


71 
107 
124 


3 . 


1644 
4564 
65 


47 
75 
100 


65 
86 
107 



TABLE 2. 



Ages. 


Percentage of actual to expected 
deaths. 




Group 
A.H.J. 


Group 
B.C.D. 


Group 
E.F., 


Group 
G. 


1644 . 


64 


73 


72 


70 


4564 . 


88 


95 


95 


108 


65 


104 


106 


123 


134 



MANCHESTER UNITY DATA 
TABLE 3. 



69 



Ages. 


Percentage of actual to expected 
deaths. 


1644 . 
4564 . 
65 


Area 1. 


Area 2. 


Area 3. 


Whole 
society. 


61 

79 
91 


68 
92 
109 


75 
112 

128 


66 
90 

, 105 



than upon the occupational factor. The experience was tabu- 
lated into three areas. No. 1 covered mainly non- manufacturing 
districts, No. 2 textile districts, No. 3 other manufacturing, coal 
and metal-working, metropolitan districts. . 

The occupational groups were : A. Agriculture. B. Out- 
door building trades, including masons, stoneworkers, dock 
labourers, canal banksmen, bargemen and unskilled labourers 
employed out of doors. C. Covered the railway services. 
D. Seafaring, fishing, etc. E. Quarry workers. F. Iron and 
steel workers. G. Mining occupations, chiefly underground, 
but including some on the pit brow. Groups H. (rural) and 
J. (urban) comprised the general body of the society's experience 
exclusive of the special groups just described. The results are 
shown in Tables 1 3. The conclusion drawn was that " on a 
broad view of the facts, therefore, it appears that as between 
the two elements of geographical situation and occupation the 
former should chiefly be considered in the formation of monetary 
tables depending on mortality, and for the construction of the 
life tables the geographical distribution of the data has been 
adopted accordingly." 

In Table 4 we quote the expectation of life at age twenty, 
as shown by Watson's analysis into geographical units. It will 
be seen that the greatest expectation is shown for the combined 
rural and urban experience of the non-manufacturing districts, 
the least by the urban experience of the textile districts, a 
difference of more than four years. The primd facie inference 
from these researches is that the improvements introduced 
into the manufacturing arts and the sanitary measures enforced 
by the Legislature have had a relatively greater effect upon the 
hygiene of industry in the workplace than the improvements 
in housing and town planning within industrial areas have had 
in reducing the difference between the best and worst environ- 
mental home conditions. While we do not think the reader 



70 EFFECTS OF INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT 

TABLE 4. ' 





Expectations of 
life at age twenty 
(males) (Man- 
chester Unity). 


Area 1. 


Rural .... 


45-654 


Area 1. 


Urban .... 


44-398 


Area 1. 


Urban and rural 


45-324 


Area 2. 


Rural .... 


42-734 


Area 2. 


Urban .... 


41-138 


Area 2. 


Urban and rural 


41-648 


Area 3. 


Rural .... 


44-349 


Area 3. 


Urban .... 


42-889 


Area 3. 


Urban and rural 


43-507 



(The expectation at this age by English Life 
Table for 1901 --10 is 43-01 years ; for 
183854, 39-45 ; 187180, 39-40 ; 188190, 
40-2 ; 18911900, 41-02.) 

need accept the primd facie inference as definitely established, 
there is no doubt that the workroom conditions described in 
evidence before the Commission of 1842 are rare exceptions 
in any industries and non-existent in inspected industries of 
our own generation. On the other hand, the evidence furnished 
by such inquiries as those of Booth (7) and Rowntree (8), or 
given in papers such as Wanklyn's (9), demonstrates that a not 
inconsiderable percentage of the working classes is still housed 
in conditions of squalor which, if an improvement, are not a 
very great improvement upon the generality of the dwellings 
described fifty years ago. It is necessary to remember that we 
are now concerned with relative mortality, not morbidity. 
There is hardly any doubt that in all trades and districts the 
absolute mortality has declined in the last sixty years. 

TABLE 5. Expectations of Life (Males) at Age Twenty, 
Eighty Years ago. 



Source of dates. 



Expectation. 



All England, 183841 . 




40-69 


Friendly societies, 1836 40. 


Rural 


45-36 


;> >"> J 


Towns 


42-27 


53 5? J 


Cities 


40-01 


5> >! 


Liverpool . 


37-96 



STANDARD FOR COMPARISON 71 

It is true that the expectations of life at age twenty which 
we have just quoted from Watson's report do not differ 
much from the figures of Neison (see Table 5), but it is 
probable, indeed certain, that the friendly society members 
at the end of the nineteenth century were more nearly a 
random sample of the working classes at that epoch than 
were the members of seventy years ago, when the money 
earnings of hand labourers were almost at their nadir, and 
the possibility of maintaining weekly contributions (and there- 
fore coming within the actuarial " experience ") restricted. 
Death rates have declined of recent years in friendly society 
experience, and at the foot of Table 4 we give figures 
indicating some increase in the expectation of life for all 
inhabitants of the kingdom. 

IV. Index of Trade Mortality. 

A fair measure or index of the hygienic status of a trade or 
district is, we think, the relation its death rate bears to the best 
standard of the country. (A still better measure would, as we 
pointed out in the previous chapter, be afforded by occupational 
or local life tables, but this is not applicable yet.) Thus the 
three last decennial valuations of the mortality rates prevailing 
in various occupations (1890-2, 1900-2, 1910 12) show that 
the standardised mortality rates of coal miners were 1,068, 846, 
727; of bricklayers, 1,157, 862, 662; of shoemakers, 1,064, 
901, 820. In each case the decline is very large. But if we 
express each mortality index as a percentage of the mortality 
experienced by the clergy in the corresponding decennium, we 
find that relatively to clergy the coal miners did not improve 
at all between 1900-2 and 1912, the percentage being in each 
period 164 ; bricklayers, etc., improved through the series 
from 188 to 167 and then to 149 ; shoemakers relatively 
deteriorated from 173 to 175 and then to 185 in the most recent 
data. Without desiring to emphasise these figures too much 
we shall shortly point out the serious criticisms to which they 
are subject we cannot doubt that the satisfaction afforded 
by the absolute fall in mortality of all three occupations should 
be tempered by the thought that one of them bears a less 
favourable relation to the best attained standard of its con- 
temporaries and one a not more favourable relation than 
obtained ten years earlier. We have above given prominence 
to the information regarding occupational mortality derived 
from actuarial researches, and we regret that more is not avail- 
able, because inferences from death rates, however standardised, 



72 EFFECTS OF INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT 

are less secure than those sanctioned by the fuller view of the 
facts afforded by a life table. 

V. Difficulties of estimating Effect of Occupation on Mortality. 

The official statistics of occupational mortality are, however, 
presented in the form of death rates, the method adopted being 
briefly as follows : The age constitution of a series of occupational 
groups is obtained from the decennial census, and the registered 
deaths for the three years centring in the census year are then 
tabulated by ages, rates of mortality being formed for age 
groups. To admit of comparison a standardised mortality 
figure is computed by the method explained in the previous 
chapter. The standard population used in the last three 
decennial analyses, viz., those of 1890-2, 1900-2, 1910 12, was so 
constituted that had the death rates for all males, 1900-2, 
been applied to it, 1,000 deaths would have resulted. This 
standard has certain advantages, inasmuch as one sees at a 
glance whether the mortality index of a group is greater or less 
than that experienced by all males twenty years ago ; it is 
subject to all the criticisms applicable to standardised rates in 
general. A special difficulty of interpreting occupational rates 
is that the exposed to risk in different age groups are not neces- 
sarily or even probably in pari materia. This objection is of 
course applicable to other tables of death rates at ages. Thus 
in a city, the living and exposed to risk at ages twenty to twenty- 
five will contain a considerable proportion of youths who emi- 
grated from the country in search of employment ; in the rural 
districts, males at ages over sixty will contain a proportion of 
those who have left the cities ; all the corrected death rate tells 
us is the force of mortality (weighted by the choice of standard) 
upon contemporaneously existing lives ; how far this measures 
the effect of the immediate environment, how much credit 
should be assigned to the effect of upbringing elsewhere, we 
do not know. This difficulty is still more serious when the 
grouping is not by geographical, but by occupational, units, 
since the weeding out of the unfit, the current application of 
the phrase " too old at forty," must affect certain occupa- 
tions very much, and all to some extent. No method is 
available for circumventing this difficulty ; it could only be 
completely overcome if the life histories of all citizens were 
recorded and changes in their occupations returned to the 
General Register Office with the same completeness as obtains 
respecting the notifications of their entry to and exit from the 
stage of life. 



OCCUPATIONAL DEATH RATES 



73 



TABLE 6. Registrar-General's Returns (14), Comparative 
Mortality Figures. 





1890-2. 


1900-2. 


191012 


Clergy . - . 


615 (100) 


515 (100) 


443 (100) 


(a) Agricultural labourers 


731 (119) 


572 (111) 


470 (106) 


(b) Commercial clerks . 


1,056 (172) 


837 (163) 


802 (181) 


(c) Coal miners 


1,068 (174) 


846 (164) 


727 (164) 


(d) Bricklayers, etc. 


1,157 (188) 


862 (167) 


662 (149) 


(e) Saddlers and harness-makers 


1,069 (174) 


889 (173) 


736 (166) 


(/) Cotton manufacturers 


1,318 (214) 


1,037 (201) 


811 (183) 


Wool and worsted . 


1,146 (186) 


927 (180) 


802 (151) 


Silk .... 


1,064 (173) 


892 (173) 


717 (162) 


Hosiery .... 


808 (131) 


853 (166) 


736 (166) 


Lace . 


819 (133) 


831 (161) 


771 (174) 


Carpets . 


1,010 (164) 


942 (183) 


643 (145) 


(g) Tinplate goods 


1,148 (187) 


974 (189) 


673 (152) 


Chemical 


1,609 (262) 


1,031 (200) 


653 (147) 


Paper .... 


1,043 (170) 


654 (133) 


679 (153) 


(h) Shoemakers 


1,064 (173) 


901 (175) 


820 (188) 


Tailors . . . 1,144 (186) 


953 (188) 


799 (180) 


Cabinet-makers 


1,131 (184) 


888 (172) 


793 (179) 


(i) Printers 


1,267 (206) 


935 (182) 


773 (174) 


Bookbinders . 


1,225 (199) 


889 (173) 


791 (179) 



In Table 6 we reproduce the comparative mortality figures of 
a series of representative groups of the male population ; the 
figures in brackets are the percentage ratios that each index 
bears to the standardised mortality of the clergy. The selection 
has been made upon the principle of choosing industries employ- 
ing considerable numbers of men and not greatly subject to 
the specific risks associated with particular occupations such, 
for example, as the pneumonoconioses or lead poisoning 
which do not fall within the scope of a text-book of general 
industrial hygiene. The reader will notice how great the range 
of variation is within a group of allied occupations ; even in the 
most recent experience the worst occupation in group (/) is 
38 per cent, of the standard worse than the best, nearly as great 
an interval as separates the best from the highest practically 
attainable standard of the time. The difference between the 
mortality of agricultural labourers, hardly inferior to the 
standard, and that of the employees in trades the real remu- 
nerations of which greatly exceed those of agricultural 
labourers, is immense. 



74 EFFECTS OF INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT 



VI. Result of using Brownlee's Method. 

Although it is not possible to construct from the occupational 
statistics a complete life table, one of the life table constants 
can be deduced with fair accuracy. Brownlee has shown (10) 
that the reciprocal of the expectation of life at any age is con- 
nected with the standardised death rate at that and higher ages 
by a linear relation. Brownlee's formulae reproduce the expecta- 
tions of life with considerable success. Thus we applied his 
method to determine the expectation of life at age twenty from 
the crude data used for the computation of English Life Table 
No. 7 and obtained 43-1 years, the correct value being 43-01 
years ; even at age fifty-five years the difference between the 
approximate and true values (16-8 years approximate, 16-48 
true) was of little moment. Unfortunately the Registrar- 
General does not subdivide the deaths in occupations for ages 
beyond sixty-five, which prevents the immediate application 
of Brownlee's formula ; we have therefore assumed that for 
ages older than sixty-five occupied males in 1900-2 died at 
the same rate as all males in England and Wales. With this 
assumption, the expectations of life at twenty for a number 
of occupations have been calculated and are shown in 
Table 7. 



TABLE 7. Expectations of Life at Age Twenty (approximate) 
based on Mortality of 1900-2. 



Clergy. 

Agricultural labourers 

Clerks . 

Coal miners . 

Cotton manufacturers 

Carpet 

Shoemakers . 

Tailors 

Printers 



47-1 
46-2 
43-3 
43-2 
41-4 
42-2 
42-6 
42-3 
42-1 



This table underestimates the difference between the best and 
worst groups because it is probable that the death rate continues 
to be differential after age sixty-five, although the rates must 
tend to converge at the older ages. Hence the difference of 
nearly five years between the farm labourers and the cotton 
operatives in no way overstates the advantage of the former 
class. 



MEDICAL SOCIOLOGY 



75 



VII. Relation between Industrial Mortality and Social Unrest. 

Mortality statistics are not merely interesting figures. They 
represent the end product of prodromal ill-health. Ill-health in 
itself is an important factor conducing to irritability and dis- 
content. Social unrest should then be related to mortality ; 
nor is the possibility of this relation a mere surmise, as may 
be gathered from the following instance : A coal-miners' ballot 
was taken in August, 1920, to ascertain whether a general 
strike should not be declared if (i.) the price of house coal 
were not lowered by 14s. 6d. per ton, and (ii.) 2s. extra wages 
per shift were not paid. The voting on seven of the coalfields 
was as follows : 



TABLE 8. Result of Coal Miners' Ballot. 







In favour of strike. 


Coalfield. 


Total vote. 


Number. 


Per- 








centage. 


Yorkshire. . . . . 


114,509 


58,530 


51-1 


Nottinghamshire 


30,897 


17,010 


55-0 


Durham and Northumberland 


146,070 


101,924 


69-1 


Derbyshire and South Derbyshire 


45,793 


32,921 


71-9 


South Wales . 


181,768 


141,721 


77-9 


(Midlands) .... 


; (58,735) 


(48,044) 


(81-8) 


Lancashire .... 


83,379 

i 


74,832 


89-7 



The position, in the order stated, of the Yorkshire field is 
one of special interest. A strike, affecting this coalfield 
alone, took place in August, 1919 ; and the effect of the rest 
then taken is generally thought to have influenced the voting. 
The figures in the above table refer, as nearly as the data 
published permit, to those seven coalfields for which the 
Registrar-General issues separate mortality data. The next 
table contains these mortality data (the most recent avail- 
able) arranged in order of comparative mortality. The coal- 
fields are found approximately in the same order as the ballot 
placed them. Yorkshire only is notably out of place, and 
reason has already been given for anticipating such a displace- 
ment. The data for the Midlands in the first table, it should 
be noted, refer to a larger area than those for Staffordshire 
in the other. 



76 



EFFECTS OF INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT 



TABLE 9. Comparative Mortality of Coal Miners from Certain 
Causes, 1910-12. 



Coalfield. 


Comparative mortality due to 


All causes. 


Respi 
Phthisis. 


ratory dis 

Bron- 
chitis. 


eases. 

Pneu 
moniu. 


Accidents. 


Nottingham . 
Derbyshire 
Durham and Northumber- 
land .... 
Staffordshire . 
Yorkshire 
Monmouthshire and South 
Wales 
Lancashire 


570 (1) 

591 (2) 

635 (3) 

(717) 

758 

111 (4) 
941 (5) 


53 (1) 

70 (2) 

70 (2) 
(74) 
81 

70 (4) 
107 (5) 


25 (1) 
39 (3) 

33 (2) 
(61) 
45 

66 (4) 
88 (5) 


40 (2) 
34 (1) 

54(3) 
(70) 
69 

69 (4) 
100 (5) 


66(1) 
73 (2) 

83 (3) 
(109) 
117 

131 (4) 
183 (5) 


Occupied and retired males 


790 


142 


38 


67 






The mortality experienced from accidents, the unusual height 
of which is a feature of all mining mortality statistics, is of 
particular interest. Any community subjected to an unduly 
high accident rate may be expected to suffer unduly from 
psycho-neuroses, just as do soldiers in war time. Practitioners 
in colliery districts are aware that miners suffer unduly in this 
way. Signs of social unrest as indicated by the ballot are 
correlated with the accident mortality. 

Data are also given of the mortality from respiratory diseases 
as instances to indicate that the question does not entirely 
depend upon the prevalence of accidents but that general ill- 
health plays its part. 

Probably the conditions of life on the different coalfields were 
but little altered between 1920 and 1910-12. A concerted 
effort to lower the mortality, especially from accidents, upon the 
fields most affected, to the level of Nottinghamshire, might be 
expected to do much to remove unrest. 

The above instance is here given in order to stimulate interest, 
not only in mortality data but also in morbidity, as indicated, 
for instance, by lost time, a direct measure of prevailing ill- 
health (see Chapter V.) ; to support the view that the reasons 
given for trade disputes are incomplete ; to point out that, if 
such data are regarded, ample time intervenes for remedying 
adverse conditions before a disruption occurs ; and to maintain 
the position that industry, with such information at its disposal, 
cannot, in its own interests, afford to disregard it. 



RECORDS OF SICKNESS 77 

VIII. Morbidity. 

It may surprise the reader that we have not in the course 
of this chapter made any mention of morbidity statistics, 
although the actuaries, Neison and Watson, whose writings we 
have extensively drawn upon, devoted a major part of their 
studies to this question. Sickness precedes death, and should 
therefore logically be discussed first. There are sufficient reasons 
for the plan we have adopted. Both Neison, seventy years 
ago, and Watson, in our own time, found that in friendly society 
experience little positive correlation existed between sickness 
and mortality rates ; in fact, the two indices might be negatively 
correlated. For instance, while Watson noted that geographical 
variations of mortality were greater than occupational varia- 
tions, the reverse held for sickness. Prinzing has pointed out (11 ) 
that the same occurs in the experience of Continental State 
health insurance departments. From this we are not to infer 
that an occupation or place of residence which increases the 
longevity of its population also increases their days of illness. 
The true explanation was suggested long 'ago by Farr in a 
review of Neison' s work (16, p. 505), and has been substantially 
repeated by Prinzing, who writes : " The causes of this inverse 
relation " (i.e., high sickness and low mortality in certain occupa- 
tions) " are partly occupational, partly social and economic. 
Many trades (e.g., those of a tailor or shoemaker) can still be 
exercised by those slightly ill ; in others (e.g., railway service, 
lock and black smiths' work) it is impossible. The rate of sick- 
pay is also important. If it is not much less than his ordinary 
wages, the worker is more likely to keep the house with a slight 
illness. Again, the dispensability of workpeople varies much ; 
the factory hand can be spared most easily, while the absence 
of employees in small workshops, servants, waiters, business 
assistants, shopgirls, etc., leads to an appreciable disturbance 
of the business ; hence such persons even when not really fit 
for work are stimulated to carry on to the best of their ability " 
(11, p. 126). The recent investigations of Rusher support, we 
think, the opinions here expressed. 

We have no doubt that statistical sickness, in the sense of 
the friendly society actuary, is an incomplete measure of the 
real morbidity of occupations ; and the investigation of 
Loveday (12) into the causes of lost time in munitions factories, 
the evidence he adduced that a large proportion of what figures 
in the records as time culpably or negligently lost was really 
due to sickness, confirms the opinion we express.* 

* It must be noted that Loveday was not able to take account of age 
distribution, and that the incidence of sickness is, other things being 



78 EFFECTS OF INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT 

We believe that by improvements in the form of certificate 
a better statistical appreciation of the morbidity in factories 
can be obtained ; indeed, something has been done since the 
war in this matter, and more remains to be accomplished. No 
such arrangements, however, can obliterate the distinctions 
between occupations ; it will always be true that a degree of 
physical disability which incapacitates a coal miner would not 
be a sufficient barrier against the continuance of his work by a 
shoemaker. Stone-dead, says the proverb, has no fellow ; to 
mortality statistics we shall continue to appeal in order to 
form accurate statistical pictures of the sanitary status of a trade 
or profession. 

IX. Bibliography. 

1. Ramazzini, B. Treatise on Diseases of Tradesmen. English 
translations. 1702 and 1746. 

2. Thackrah, C. Turner. Effects of Arts., Trades and Professions 
on Health and Longevity. 2nd Edition. London. 1832. 

3. Chadwick, E. General Reports on Sanitary Condition of the 
Labouring Population. London. 1842. 

4. Neison. F. G. P. Contributions to Vital Statistics. 3rd Edition. 
London. 1857. 

5. Finlaison, A. G. Return on Sickness and, Mortality of Friendly 
Societies. London. 1853 and 1854. 

6. Watson, A. W. An Account of an Investigation of the Sickness 
and Mortality Experience ofl.O.O.F., Manchester Unity. Manchester. 
1903. 

7. Booth, C. Life and Labour of the People. 

8. Rowntree, W. S. Poverty : A Study of Town Life. London. 
1902. 

9. Wanklyn, W. McC. " Working-class Home Conditions in 
London." Proc. Epidem. Sect. Royal Soc. Med. October, 1913. 

10. Brownlee, J. " The Relationship between Corrected Death 
Rates and Life Table Death Rates." Journ. Hygiene, XIII., p. 178. 
1913. 

11. Prinzing, F. Handbuch der Medizinischen Statistik. Jena. 
1906. 

12. Loveday, T. " The Causes and Conditions of Lost Time." 
Health of Munition Workers Committee. Interim Report. (Cd. 8511.) 
1917. 

13. Chadwick, E. " On the Best Modes of representing 
accurately by Statistical Returns the Duration of Life, etc." Journ. 
Stat. Soc., VII., p. 1. 1844. 

14. Registrar-General, Supplement to Sixty-fifth Annual Report of. 
Part II. (Cd. 2619.) 

15. Guy, W. A. " Contributions to a Knowledge of the Influence 
of Employment upon Health." Journ. Stat. Soc.,VI. t p. 197, 1843 : 
ibid., p. 283 ; VII., p. 232, 1844. 

16. Farr, W. Collected Writings on Vital Statistics, p. 505. Edited 
by Humphreys. London. 1885. 

equal, a function of age. This must always be remembered in comparing 
occupations. Between forty-five and fifty-five as much sickness per head 
is experienced as in the preceding twenty years, twenty-five to forty-five. 



PART II 

CHAPTER V 

INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

I. Introduction. II. Definition. III. The Animal Body considered as 
a Machine. IV. The Site of Fatigue : Neuro-muscular Mechanism ; 
Central Nervous System ; Mental Fatigue ; Practice Effect. 
V. Chemistry of Activity. VI. Metabolism and Rhythm. VII. Indi- 
cations of Fatigue : Means of Measurement : Direct Tests ; In- 
direct Tests : Output ; Lost Time and Sickness ; Labour Turn- 
over ; Industrial Accidents. VIII. Influences contributing to 
Industrial Fatigue :-^-Hours of Labour ; Conditions of Employment : 
Ventilation, Temperature, Lighting ; Methods of Work. IX. 
Bibliography. 

I. Introduction. 

ACTIVITY is the cause of fatigue ; activity may be mental or 
physical, may be excessive or moderate ; moderate activity is 
followed by healthy fatigue, i.e., by fatigue which entirely 
disappears during rest cessation of activity ; but activity 
systematically pursued despite feelings of tiredness carries 
fatigue past the limits of perfect recovery into the regions of 
disordered metabolism. Sir James Paget's saying that " fatigue 
has a larger share in the promotion or permission of disease than 
any other single causal condition you can name " is probably 
truer for industrial employment than for any other walk of life. 
In industry the call for physical activity is great, and in industry 
is to be found a large proportion of those whose daily bread 
depends upon each week's earnings ; here opportunity for 
physical strain is, or may be, associated with mental anxiety 
for the immediate future. No matter in the whole field of 
industrial hygiene is of more fundamental importance than 
the occurrence of fatigue ; further, research is clearly demon- 
strating that in the field of industrial economics its importance 
is equally great. Researches into activity, into the way in which 
the human machine works, are showing that optimum output 
is obtained by not allowing fatigue to exceed physiological 
limits ; that the goal of the economist output can be best 
attained through the same agencies as allow the medical 
man to obtain his objective health. Wider recognition of this 
simple but startling fact must transform a civilisation which has 
been so rudely shaken in the last 150 years by the development 
of industrialism. Had it only been recognised in the first half 



80 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

of last century, there would have been no fight over the Factory 
Acts. Its application to the industrial problems of the present 
needs no exposition. Industrial fatigue is a drag on the wheels 
of industry impeding the course of progress ; we should surely 
reply to-day in the affirmative to Berkeley's query " whether 
we should not cast about, by all manner of means, to expedite 
industry and to remove whatever hinders it, and whether 
every one should not lend a helping hand ? " But, if the medical 
profession is to play the part it should in expediting l^he desired 
transformation by removing the drag of fatigue, there must 
be some clear understanding of what is meant by fatigue, of 
its manifestations, and of the way in which it can be measured 
and prevented. 

II. Definition. 

Fatigue has been defined (1) as " the sum of the results of 
activity which show themselves in a diminished capacity for 
work." Activity must then precede fatigue, and a diminished 
capacity for doing work is its measure. -This definition lays 
down that fatigue is essentially a negative quantity, namely, a 
diminished capacity for doing work ; and capacity for doing 
work must first be estimated before any diminution in it can be 
established. Bodily sensations are often appealed to as an 
indication of the presence of fatigue, but are uncertain guides. 
Fatigue may be progressively advancing without any apprecia- 
tion by the worker that his activity is decreasing ; the steady 
maintenance of the quality and quantity of his output is the 
only sure indication that his activity is being maintained. Since 
the activities productive of fatigue in industrial workers are 
mainly concerned with the performance of external work, other 
activities, such as mental work, also productive of fatigue, will 
receive only passing consideration here. 

III. The Animal Body considered as a Machine. 

The animal body considered as an agent for "performing 
external work consists of three parts : first, the brain and spinal 
cord, where impulses originate or are transformed ; second, the 
nerves, which convey these impulses through end-organs to the 
muscles ; and third, the muscles themselves, which contract 
on receipt of these impulses and so may do external work. As 
a mechanism the body may be likened to a motor car, in which 
an electric charge, originated in the magneto, is conveyed by 
wires to the sparking plug in the cylinder, where on discharge of 
an electric spark combustion takes place, driving down the piston 
to do external work. 



CHEMICAL AND MECHANICAL ANALOGIES 81 

Fatigue is not merely due to the using up of the combustible 
material in the muscles, or to loss of the power of the nerves and 
end- organs to convey impulses, or to weakening of the capacity 
of the brain and spinal cord to originate impulses ; it is not 
merely the running down of the car for want of petrol ; it is not 
the cessation of a chemical reaction because the latter is complete. 
It is rather interference with the mechanism due to accumulation 
within of the chemical products of activity, i.e., of katabolism ; 
somewhat as the products ,of combustion by fouling a sparking 
plug may slow down or stop a motor which still contains a 
plentiful supply of petrol, or somewhat as some chemical 
reactions are interfered with by one of the products formed : 
thus water reacts with ethyl acetate with the formation of ethyl 
alcohol and acetic acid ; but the reaction, rapid at first, slows 
down as the acetic acid accumulates, and long before the total 
possible reaction is complete the process tends to reverse with 
the re-formation of water and ethyl acetate, so that the following 
formula may be read from left to right, or from right to left, 
according as to whether the solution of acetic acid is weak or 
strong ; finally a state of equilibrium is reached in which the 
action and reaction are equal and opposite, and the strength of 
acetic acid in the solution remains the same : - 

C 2 H 5 COO CH 3 + H 2 - C 2 H 5 OH + CH 3 COOH 

Ethyl acetate Water Ethyl alcohol Acetic acid 

Katabolic products of activity act like a goveinor on an engine 
to prevent undue expenditure of energy ; fatigue, which is the 
sign of their presence, may be considered as nature's check to 
prevent exhaustion. 

The analogy of a machine with an animal body must, 
however, not be pushed far, even though, as Hele-Shaw has 
pointed out, curves representing fatigue or endurance of 
metals (26) agree remarkably in shape with those for human 
endurance (27). Curves for human endurance for this purpose 
were constructed by plotting as vertical ordinates the pace 
(in miles per hour) of record velocities when cycling, skating, 
running, walking, and swimming, while the abscissae represent 
the distances over which the respective speeds were maintained. 
The conclusion is drawn that muscular fatigue corresponds in a 
certain way to the results of endurance tests of metals. 

The method of inquiry adopted by Hele-Shaw, so far as living 
beings is concerned, was anticipated in a careful statistical 
investigation by Kennely (30), who investigated the records for 
trotting, pacing, and running horses, and those for running, 
walking, rowing, skating, and swimming men. Kennely, after 
analysis of these records, obtained curves similar in shape in each 



82 



INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 



case to those shown in Fig. 1 ; and put forward certain approxi- 
mate laws for fatigue caused by athletic effort : (a) doubling 
the distance means increasing the time by 118 per cent. ; 

(b) doubling the speed cuts down the racing time 512 times ; 

(c) doubling the time of the race allows of increasing the course 
length by 85 per cent. ; (d) doubling the speed cuts down the 
distance that can be covered 256 times ; (c) doubling the 
distance brings down the speed about 9-3 per cent. ; (/) the 



MILTS 



(G 

How* 

8 



STRESS CURVE orv 

k ^^^_ WROUGHT- IRON 




WALKING 



5W1MMINO 



4.0 60 

M ILES 



/CO 



FIG. 1. Comparison of Alternating Stress Curve on Wrought-Iron with 
limit of Muscular Fatigue. Reproduced from (26). 

speed over the course varies approximately as the inverse ninth 
root of the racing time ; (g) the law of fatigue in racing is the 
same, or very nearly the same, with horses as with men, in air or 
in water, as indicated by the records analysed. This inquiry 
is suggestive ; possibly the pace of industrial work when not con- 
trolled by machinery may similarly be found, particularly in 
relation to hours of labour, to obey definite laws. 

The three parts of the body now under consideration form 
only a portion of the whole live organism, they react one on 



ACTIVITY OF REST 83 

another, and on the whole organism, and are in their turn 
reacted upon by it. Thus the katabolic products of activity 
generated in the muscles may affect the central nervous system, 
just as the presence of an excess of carbon dioxide or of oxygen 
in the blood flowing through the medulla stimulates or inhibits 
the respiratory centre. These products are being constantly 
removed from the tissues either directly or indirectly by the 
blood ; if the rapidity of removal were always equal to that of 
formation no accumulation would occur, but normally during 
work this is not so, and accumulation occurs ; consequently if 
external activity the capacity for doing work is to be main- 
tained, a pause or rest must be interposed during which (a) the 
waste products may be removed, and (b) anabolic processes 
the replacement of the transformed energy may take place. 
Rest then is really an active state, a period of internal activity ; 
and the occurrence of fatigue, whether it is stayed at the stage 
of healthy physiological fatigue or passes over to that of patho- 
logy, depends on the time relations between external activity- 
work and internal activity cleaning and^ repair. If work is 
continued too long or is too quickly repeated, the cleaning and 
repair processes cannot be completed ; then katabolic products 
accumulate and hamper further action, even to the stage of 
preventing any action at all. Macaulay, when condemning 
Sunday labour in the House of Commons, expressed the position 
eloquently : " While industry is suspended, while the plough 
lies in the furrow, while the Exchange is silent, while no smoke 
ascends from the factory, a process is going on quite as im- 
portant to the wealth of nations as any process which is per- 
formed on more busy days. Man, the machine of machines, the 
machine compared with which all the contrivances of the Watts' 
and Arkwrights are worthless, is repairing and winding up, so 
that he returns to his labours on the Monday with a clearer 
intellect, with livelier spirits, with renewed corporal vigour." 

IV. The Site of Fatigue. 

The three parts of the animal mechanism, the muscles, the 
nerves and the central nervous system, differ in structure and 
in chemical composition, and also in their reactions to activity. 

N euro-muscular Mechanism. A muscle can be made to 
contract until no response follows by stimulation of its motor 
nerve ; at this stage direct stimulation of the muscular tissue 
can still provoke contraction. Hence the conclusion follows that 
the nervous control of the muscle is fatigued before the muscle. 

The nervous control is carried out by two parts, the nerve 

6-2 



84 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

and its end-organ in the muscle ; these two parts differ in their 
reaction to fatigue. If the passage of impulses to a muscle on, 
say, the right side be inhibited by passing an ascending current 
along the distal portion of the right motor nerve, and if both 
right and left motor nerves be stimulated near their origin from 
the spinal cord ; then the left muscle can be made to contract 
until it finally responds no longer, while the right muscle remains 
impassive. At this stage removal of the inhibiting ascending 
current is immediately followed by contraction of the right 
muscle (see Fig. 2). Hence the conclusion follows that the final 
lack of response of the left muscle was due to fatigue of the 
nerve end-organ, since the proximal portion of the right nerve 




FIG. 2. 

remained unfatigued by the stimulation to which it was subjected 
throughout ; indeed, except by asphyxiation due to entire 
deprivation of oxygen, fatigue of a nerve trunk cannot be shown 
to occur. 

The central nervous system from which motor impulses 
normally originate still remains for consideration. Sherrington 
has found that if a reflex act, say the scratch reflex in a " spinal 
animal," I5e started by irritating one spot of the skin and main- 
tained until no response follows, the reflex can be obtained as 
vigorous as ever by irritating a neighbouring spot of the skin. 
Here the same motor mechanism of muscles, end-organs and 
nerves is concerned in both cases ; but the central connection 
between the arriving afferent impulses and this mechanism has 



SITE OF FATIGUE 85 

been changed, and also the sensory site from which these impulses 
start. Sherrington gives reasons for considering that the 
sensory site is not fatigued, and hence concludes that the 
central mechanism, the synapse between the afferent and 
efferent nerves, feels fatigue before the motor mechanism. 

We must then suppose that the central nervous system feels 
the effect first, the nerve end-organs second, and the muscles 
themselves last ; while the effect of activity upon the nerves is 
so slight that it may for practical purposes be neglected. The 
muscles, that part of the mechanism which performs external 
work, are thus protected against complete exhaustion, by fatigue 
interfering first with the transmission of impulses, and secondly 
with their acceptance. Voluntary effort cannot therefore 
entirely exhaust the muscles, and fatigue is not, as bodily 
sensations suggest, really located in the muscles themselves, but 
in the delicate and complicated structure of the central nervous 
system and possibly of the end-organs. 

An impulse of greater extent is required to obtain a stronger 
contraction from a muscle ; that is to say, the -activity of the 
central nervous system, as well as of the muscle, is increased with 
the work done. But a minimal impulse is required to make a 
muscle contract at all ; and the sum of a number of minimal or 
medium impulses which result in but a small foot-poundage of 
work may be more fatiguing to the central nervous system than 
a few impulses followed by a larger output of energy. The 
conclusions follow that (1) the number of impulses originated 
as well as their size determines the onset of fatigue : that is to 
say, rapidity of movement is important as well as the amount of 
work done; and (2) industrial fatigue is essentially a problem 
of the central nervous system. 

Central Nervous System. Impulses reach an efferent or motor 
nerve through the synapse in the cord from two sources : (1) from 
the afferent nerve of the part controlled by the efferent nerve 
and (2) from the higher nervous centres ; these impulses may 
agree or interfere. The scratch reflex in an experimental frog 
is an instance of afferent impulses stimulating muscular action. 
Afferent impulses also exert inhibitory influences on muscular 
action ; thus when muscular contraction, can no longer be 
obtained by voluntary effort (as in an ergograph experiment), 
if a local anaesthetic be applied, further voluntary muscular 
contraction can be obtained ; in this case afferent impulses must 
have been causing the primary cessation of muscular action by 
inhibiting the voluntary messages. This experiment also 
suggests that voluntary effort the capacity of the higher brain 
centres for originating impulses may remain active even when 



86 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

the muscle has ceased to respond; i.e., fatigue doe not primarily 
originate where the impulses originate. The continued existence 
of activity in the higher centres may also be shown by replacing 
the weight which was being lifted by a slightly smaller one, when 
a fresh set of excellent contractions can voluntarily be obtained. 

Evidence points to fatigue being first manifested in that part 
of the nervous system whence the impulses, whether voluntary 
or involuntary, are finally transmitted to the efferent -motor 
nerves. Fatigue is the manifestation of inhibitory processes 
affecting this part of the nervous system, the synapse in the spinal 
cord ; and is protective against over-exertion of the muscles. 
The mechanism may be likened to interference with messages 
in a telephone exchange while both conversing subscribers are 
as ready as ever to continue their conversation. 

Mental Fatigue. A grasp of the position in relation to 
muscular fatigue will render easier understanding of the mental 
fatigue which enters into many industrial processes. Myers 
writes (23) : " In monotonous mental work a similar protective 
function can be seen. When we are engaged on any one piece 
of mental work other mental processes are inhibited which are 
incompatible with it ; but the effects of fatigue are safeguarded 
by the gradual failure of these processes of inhibition. The 
inhibited mental processes sooner or later refuse to be suppressed. 
Other mental activities accordingly intrude, and by their 
inhibitory action make the continuance of the monotonous 
mental work impossible. The continued effort to repress these 
intruding activities is accompanied first by a feeling of ' bore- 
dom ' as interest i.e., the pleasure or incentive in the work 
wanes, and later by a feeling of ' weariness ' as the effort is 
invoked with greater difficulty. . . . Higher control is actually 
fatigued and cannot be immediately employed for concentration 
in another direction, for the synapses concerned in the effort of 
the self at inhibition are most sensitive to fatigue, and this 
fatigue enters into and affects other subsequent self-effort. 

" We conclude, then, that monotonous application for long 
hours at relatively light work induces an incapacity as serious 
as employment for shorter hours at more strenuous work. 
Indeed, the incapacity may be more serious e.g., when the 
lighter work is mainly of a mental character, watching and 
controlling a small piece of machinery that does everlastingly 
the same job and when the heavier work is mainly of a mecha- 
nical character e.g., lifting huge weights of iron. In the latter 
case the main source of fatigue arises, as we have seen, from the 
accumulation of waste products in the muscles, and especially 
from the nervous inhibitory processes arising from unchanging 



PRACTICE EFFECT 87 

muscular exercise. But such nervous inhibition has its seat in 
far lower and less important nerve centres than in the former 
case. The volitional efforts made to overcome such muscular 
incapacity are much less effective and less baneful than those 
made to overcome the boredom and weariness arising from 
mental work. Hence the pathological expression of continued 
fatigue i.e., over-strain is far less prevalent in muscular than 
in mental exertion." 

Practice Effect. Stimulation of a muscle is followed at first 
by increase in the strength of the response ; that is to say, the 
same strength of stimulus produces a greater and greater result. 
The phenomenon is called the staircase, treppe, or practice 
effect ; its existence with regard to muscular action is well 
recognised. 

Psychological experiments (in which muscular effort needed 
for indicating the results of mental work has been as far as 
possible eliminated) point to a similar practice effect in mental 
activity, to the existence of a site or sites nerve exchanges or 
synapses probably distinct from the seat of -mental activity, 
where fatigue originates and inhibits over-action. 

Industrial muscular work calls both muscular practice and 
mental practice into play, since it is the result of voluntary 
impulses calling forth muscular action. Such voluntary muscular 
work may increase, due either to practice affecting the muscles 
or to practice affecting the origination of impulses. How far 
these two forms of practice advance together at equal pace has 
not been determined, nor whether they are interfered with 
simultaneously and equally by the inhibitory influence of fatigue. 
The suggestion may, however, be put forward that there are two 
forms of practice effect and of fatigue inhibition, and that the 
irregularity found in certain curves of output is possibly an 
expression of the two forms not acting synchronously. 

Practice effect is a matter of great importance in. judging of 
the presence or onset of industrial fatigue, since the conclusion 
seems a safe one that, so long as it is being manifested and 
the inhibitory effect of fatigue is a subsidiary influence, work is 
being carried on within the limits of healthy metabolism. 

V. Chemistry of Activity. 

The law r of conservation of energy applies to muscular activity 
as definitely as if the living body were an inanimate machine. 
The energy of muscular work is derived from internal combustion, 
as a result of which oxygen is abstracted from the blood and 
carbon dioxide and water are formed, just as oxygen is abstracted 



88 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

from the air in the case of the combustion of petrol in a 
motor car. 

Muscle consists of 75 per cent, of water and 25 per cent, of 
solids ; of the 25 per cent, twenty parts are protein, and the 
remaining five parts extractives and inorganic salts. The 
extractives consist of nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous sub- 
stances. The protein and nitrogenous extractives of muscle may 
for present purposes be neglected, because nitrogenous output 
is not increased by work. The most important of the non- 
nitrogenous substances and the one which most readily provides 
the energy of muscular work is glycogen, or animal starch, 
n (C H 10 O 5 ), which forms from 0*1 to 2*5 per cent, of resting 
muscle. Its -storehouse is the liver, whence it appears to be 
carried by the blood stream to the muscles ; certainly during 
activity it disappears first from the liver and only after prolonged 
activity from the muscles. Energy for muscular contraction is 
mainly obtained by oxygenation of this intra-muscular starch. 
The oxygenation passes through various stages represented by 
sugars dextrin, maltose and glucose and finally by lactic or 
sarco-lactic acid, CH 3 (CH.OH) COOH, before the last products 
of combustion, water and carbon dioxide, are reached ; all the 
energy possible to be obtained has then been yielded. 

Fletcher and Hopkins consider (2) the phenomenon of 
muscular contraction to be a physico-chemical one. They 
point out that a catgut fibre in water will contract if its tem- 
perature be raised, or if acid be brought to it, relaxing again 
on removal of the acid ; and that the artificial application of 
lactic acid to muscle causes contraction, reversible by removal of 
the acid. They suggest that normal contraction may be caused 
by a development of lactic acid, with free H- ions, in the neigh- 
bourhood of colloidal fibrils, when work will be done according 
to the opposition given during the contraction. Exactly how 
the formation of lactic acid from some carbohydrate forerunner 
takes place when an impulse reaches the muscle from the central 
nervous system is not clear ; but once formed, contraction would 
be maintained if the acid were not removed. This removal is 
effected by oxygenation, which takes place rapidly, if oxygen is 
present, with the formation of carbon dioxide and water. 
Relaxation then occurs, and the original state of tension in the 
fibrils is restored. 

When muscular work is being done some of the intermediary 
products, due to incomplete oxygenation, may gain access to 
the blood stream; indeed, Ryffel has found that even after 
moderate exercise lactic acid can be detected in the urine and 
sweat. The claim has been made that during activity a toxin 



RHYTHM IN LIFE 89 

is formed which causes fatigue, that if blood, or serum, containing 
this toxin is injected into animals they exhibit signs of fatigue, 
and that this toxin is not lactic acid. But which of the products 
of muscular work acting on the central nervous system inhibits 
the transmission of impulses, or, indeed, whether the inhibition 
or fatigue of the central nervous system is so caused rather than* 
by some unknown product of nervous activity, has not been 
determined. 

VI. Metabolism and Rhythm. 

An essential of living matter is that it is always building up 
and breaking down, anabolism and katabolism going on simul- 
taneously ; but at any moment one or other process is normally 
in excess. The period when anabolism is in excess is the 
" resting " period (really a period of internal activity), and the 
period when katabolism is in excess is the period of external 
activity.* Just as accumulation of the products of katabolism 
limits activity and compels rest, so do the products of anabolism 
limit further rest and urge on activity. This, is a fundamental 
law of life : rest must be earned by work, and work must be 
followed by rest. Throughout life the two alternate in a steady 
rhythm. Like the swing of the pendulum, the higher swings 
the bob on the one side the more insistently does gravitation 
tend to reverse its movement ; to and fro it swings, the external 
activity of work changing place with the internal activity of rest, 
until the onward urge of the spring of life is exhausted. In the 
varied actions of the human mechanism rhythmic alternation of 
work and rest is in some instances involuntary, in others subject 
to voluntary limitations. The action of the heart, which is 
involuntary, is made up of contraction and relaxation, systole 
and diastole, work and rest, as follows : 

Systole. Diastole. 

Auricle .... 0-1' 0-7' 

Ventricle. . . . 0-3' 0-5' 

Breathing, which may be modified voluntarily, is compounded 
of the acts of expansion and contraction of the chest, and under 
ordinary circumstances each takes up a nearly equal time about 
two seconds. Sleeping and waking, even more under the 
control of the will, also alternate normally every twenty-four 
hours. 

Other examples of rhythm are to be found connected with 
anatomical structure. The length, for instance, of the leg 

* A beautiful analogy is afforded by the phenomenon of successive 
contrast in vision, and one of the classical theories of colour vision (that 
proposed by Goethe and expanded by Hering) explains the facts on the 
above lines. 



90 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

influences the periodicity of the pendulum-like swing of the 
foot in walking ; repeated arm movements, in a similar way, 
tend to take on a natural periodicity dependent on the length 
of the bones and their muscular attachments. The shorter is 
the pendulum the quicker is the periodicity of the natural swing. 
This question of rhythm is important in industrial w r ork which 
goes on day by day and week by week. Action, like the wielding 
of a heavy hammer, repeated in a rhythm which permits the 
movements of respiration to coincide with the rise and fall of the 
arms, may be continued longer and more effectively than 
irregular blows. An oarsman breathes in as he reaches forward, 
and exhales as he gets on to his work and pulls the stroke 
through ; and every rowing coach knows how a crew becomes 
ragged and slovenly when the stroke set is too slow to permit of 
sufficiently rapid breathing ; while a rapidity of stroke over 
forty per minute cannot long be maintained, even by a practised 
crew, because respiration becomes too shallow to be effective. 
The exercise of dancing to music is another excellent example 
of the effect of rhythm : the musician sets the rhythm, while the 
dancers choose their own pace. Here delicate girls (often with- 
out the companionship of the opposite sex) will indulge in active 
exercise for hour after hour, although many of them might with 
difficulty be induced to walk far fewer miles than they cover in 
an evening while dancing. The value of rest-pauses is also well 
exemplified in the arrangement of a dance programme. In 
industry the pace of the worker is frequently determined by the 
pace of the machine he tends, but the pace of the machine 
should be set in relation to his natural rhythm. The optimum 
pace will vary somewhat for different workers ; moreover, by 
practice an increase of individual pace can be attained, for the 
same sequence of impulses often repeated seems, like increase 
of traffic over a byeway, to open up the paths of communication, 
while at the same time the rhythms of the heart and lungs 
adjust themselves to new requirements. Weeks and months 
are required before a worker at a fresh process comes to his best 
level of output, and even then every morning he takes some 
time " warming up to his work." Rhythm in industrial work is 
being carefully investigated in America ; and a preliminary note 
(28) suggests that a high level of output maintained throughout 
the day is found associated with processes, such as lathe work, 
which lend themselves to rhythm ; and that an experienced 
operative, the rhythm of whose work is more steadily maintained 
throughout the day, gives a higher output, and an output which 
is more consistently maintained, than one whose work is less 
rhythmical. The teaching of physiology is that there should 



FATIGUE INVESTIGATION 



91 



be rhythm in work,* action keeping time with reaction ; 
and Burton expressed this idea in his Anatomy of Melan- 
choly : " Labouring men that sing to their work can tell 
us much." Regard must be had to such physiological factors 
as pulse rate and breathing and to anatomical structure if 
maximum effort is to be obtained with a minimum of fatigue. 
Here is work calling for the human element of scientific manage- 
ment, which is as important as determining the optimum length 
of work by the day, by the week, and by the spell, and the 
right moment for interposing rest periods and their length. 
However, before action can be taken on these lines the indica- 
tions of fatigue and the ways in which they can be measured 
must be understood. 



VII. Indications of Fatigue. 

The ways in which fatigue may be measured and the influences 
which, contribute to it may be set forth as follows : 



Contributory influences. 


Subject for 
investigation. 


Means of measurement. 


Outside 
the period - 
of employ- 
ment. 


(i.) Housing, 
(ii.) Transit, 
(iii.) Recreation 
and personal 
habits. 


Industrial 
activity 
and 
fatigue. 


Direct : Personal tests. 


( (a) Output, x- 
) (b) Lost time. 
Indirect : < (c) Wastage 
1 of workers. 
( (d) Accidents. 


During 
the period 
of employ- 
ment. 


(iv.) Hours of 
work, 
(v.) Conditions 
Iof labour, 
(vi.) Methods of 
work. 



The study of activity and fatigue consists in estimating the 
effect of alterations in the " contributory influences " upon" the 
" means of measurement " ; this may be done (1) by altering 
outside conditions, as by improving transit facilities or providing 
opportunities for healthy recreation, or (2) by shortening or 
rearranging hours, altering conditions, or modifying methods, 
and then ascertaining the effect (i.) upon output, lost time or 
other means of measurement, or (ii.) upon some personal reaction. 

Means of Measurement. 

" The results of activity which show themselves in a diminished 
capacity for doing work " are, according to our accepted defini- 

* The comparative ease with which poetry can be memorised provides 
an instructive analogy. 



92 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

tion, the indications that fatigue is present. The problem 
before us is how to establish the existence of a " diminished 
capacity," and for this purpose some direct or indirect means of 
measurement must be employed. By direct means are meant 
tests applied directly to individual workers to ascertain whether 
at any given moment their capacity for doing work is in any way 
diminished. By indirect means are meant, not tests applied 
directly to individual workers, but applied so as to deduce their 
capacity for work from their actions, e.g., from their output, 
from the amount of time they lose, or from their tendency to 
change their place of employment, i.e., labour turnover. 

Direct Tests. Direct tests capable of indicating at any 
moment the presence in any worker of a diminished capacity for 
doing work would clearly give the desired information ; but such 
tests are difficult to devise and are tedious to apply ; further, if 
the worker can in any way control his reaction to the test, that is 
to say, if the test is not purely objective, the sensations of the 
worker (already pointed out to be fallacious) may cause him to 
modify or attempt to modify his reaction according to his 
feelings. A direct test should, therefore, be purely objective, a 
difficult thing to ensure. 

Many efforts have been, and are still being, made to establish 
a satisfactory direct test, and for the moment the best prospect 
is offered by physiological tests. Thus Ryan places reliance 
upon a vascular skin reaction : " This test consists in making a 
light stroke with a blunt instrument on the skin of the forearm 
and measuring by stop-watch the time from the moment of 
stimulation to the beginning of the fading of the white streak 
that presently appears. The time required for this vascular 
skin reaction, designated fading time, was uniformly found to 
be decreased by work and increased by rest " (28) ; shortened 
fading time in the evening as compared with the morning is held 
to be an indication of fatigue resulting from the day's work. 

Martin again has applied a muscular strength test, originally 
developed by him and Lovett (31), to industrial workers. " The 
test consists of overcoming the maximum resistance of the 
muscle-group under examination by means of traction applied 
through a self-indicating spring balance " (32). Various groups 
of muscles, as indicators of total strength, are tested under 
varying conditions of work. " A lower strength record at the 
end of the working period than at the beginning is looked upon 
as indicating fatigue. . . . Where a single worker regularly 
shows a falling-off of strength at the end of the day, or where a 
group of workers all show such a strength-loss on a particular 
day, fatigue may justly be assumed." 



TESTS OF FATIGUE 93 

Another test now under observation which promises to be of 
value depends upon the reaction of pulse-rate to respiratory 
effort ; the rate is stated to quicken after effort when the subject 
is fresh, but to slow when he is tired. 

No test yet devised has commanded general acceptance. 
Discussion of the difficulties associated with this problem and of 
failures to solve it would be unprofitable ; suffice it to say that 
the use of ergometers and subjective reaction-time tests has now 
been rejected. 

Indirect Tests. The results of activity may affect either 
industrial efficiency, causing a falling off in the quality and 
quantity of work done, or the health and vigour of the workers, 
causing an increased frequency of accidents and more lost time 
and sickness, or the psychology of the workers, causing an 
undue labour turnover, i.e., change in personnel. Each of these 
results, if properly recorded, provides for investigation data 
which the workers are not likely to influence, since they might 
be quite unaware that any investigation is contemplated. 
Fortunately for investigation purposes, at most industrial estab- 
lishments records are kept for business purposes (1) of output, 
(2) of lost time and sickness, and (3) (although not so generally) 
of labour turnover. 

Output. Records of output, which are direct tests of indus- 
trial efficiency, are the most valuable data available. Through 
them the results of activity can be directly measured. Care 
must, however, be exercised before making deductions from 
output records ; the work done throughout the period under 
investigation must not have altered ; the supply of materials 
and of tools and the pace of machines must have remained the 
same ; there must have been the same incentive to work with 
no alteration in methods of payment ; if possible, the output 
should refer to the same group of workers, and these workers 
should have been employed at. the work sufficiently long to 
have passed through the stage during which practice increases 
their output ; conditions of temperature and humidity and of 
artificial and natural lighting should be similar. These condi- 
tions are difficult to satisfy ; when, however, they are satisfied, 
how do the records throw light on the presence or absence of 
industrial fatigue ? 

Examination of diagrams A to D (Fig. 3), which show graphi- 
cally the hourly output of workers engaged at different processes, 
discloses entirely different relations between the rates of hourly 
output. Diagram A shows a maximum output obtained in the 
first hour and then falling rapidly away ; B also shows a maxi- 
mum in the first hour with a less rapid falling away ; C, which 



94 



INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 



is saddle-back in s'hape, shows an initial rise fairly maintained, 
but falling away later ; D shows a steady rise and a maintenance 



260 
HARD. VARIED 



WORK 

D 



/SO 
900 



800 



LIGHT 
DEXTEROUS 



HORK 
700 
660 



600 



B 



460 
LIGHT 

MONOTONOUS 
WORK +00 



360 
300 
260 

600 



600 
HEAVY 
MONOTONOUS 
WORK 



+00 



300 




9 10 
A.M 



tt 



12. 

TO 
IP.M 



3 
R M 



FIG. 3. 



throughout the period of work of the height reached. A theo- 
retical maximum of output would be represented by a chart 



OUTPUT RECORDS 95 

with a vertical rise on commencement and a horizontal line 
thereafter, and D tends to approximate to this theoretical 
maximum. Now examine the work done, of which these charts 
represent the hourly output. In the case of A the work was 
unrelieved, unremitting monotony of physical effort at which 
the workers plainly could not maintain the pace ; in the case 
of B no strenuous work was involved, but the process was one of 
constant repetition and unrelieved monotony ; the operation 
concerned with C required both efficiency and dexterity, but 
no physical effort ; in the case of D the work was hard, but 
with movement and variety lending itself to balanced rhythm. 

Study of these hourly output records indicates that fatigue, 
contributed to by influences under control, is present most 
distinctly in A, less in B, and still less in C, and that it is not 
manifested in D, where these influences are well arranged for 
the work in progress. 

Note also that although the presence of fatigue is more 
distinct in A, which represents heavy physical work, than in B, 
where no physical exertion was called for, yet the indications 
of fatigue become progressively less, not as the severity of 
physical exertion becomes less, but as repetition of the same 
monotonous series of nerve impulses becomes less, and that D, 
where fatigue is not manifest, represents hard physical work 
second only to that of A, but characterised by a varied series 
of movements which lends itself to rhythmic repetition. 

Acceptance of the suggestion already put forward that there 
are two forms of fatigue and of practice, one nervous and the 
other muscular, may possibly throw further light upon the 
meaning of these diagrams. In A fatigue is, by hypothesis, 
since the work was heavy manual .work, mainly muscular ; but 
both in the morning and afternoon a less tired nervous system 
introduces an interference into the regular fall of output. In the 
case of B the fatigue is by hypothesis mainly nervous, and here a 
less tired muscular system interferes with the fall ; in this case, 
as nervous fatigue is less quickly recovered from than muscular, 
the afternoon output commences low instead of as in A. In C, 
arguing from the low start in the afternoon, the only fatigue 
present may be held to be nervous. In D neither form of fatigue 
can definitely be said to be present. Interpretation of output 
curves on these lines, however, while interesting to attempt, 
cannot yet be accepted as legitimate. 

The way in which the influences at work affecting the output 
represented in these diagrams should be modified to lessen 
fatigue and increase output is fairly indicated. In such pro- 
cesses as that with which A is concerned short rest pauses 



96 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

should be introduced before the rate of hourly output com- 
mences to fall ; the effect which may be expected to follow was 
demonstrated at a munitions factory, where the " men engaged 
in the heavy work of moulding were required by the manage- 
ment to rest fifteen minutes in every hour of work. The manager 
was satisfied that this was an arrangement good for the men 
and for the output. But the men objected to this long spell of 
rest in each hour because the work was piece work, and they 
thought the production would be lessened by it. The manager 
accordingly found it necessary to set a foreman to watch and, 
to make the hourly rest compulsory. When this was done the 
output per hour was found to be actually increased " (1). In 
the case of B again rest pauses are indicated, as the following 
instance shows : " At another munitions factory the com- 
mittee learnt that the manager had given a break of fifteen 
minutes daily at 11 a.m. to girls engaged in sedentary work of 
a monotonous, repetitive kind. During the break the girls had 
recreation in the open air. In spite of this deduction from their 
working hours of the time so spent, the output per day was 
increased " (1). In the case of C the length of spell five 
hours seems mainly at fault, and probably at least the last 
half-hour of each spell could with advantage have been omitted. 
The case of D presents an interesting position in relation to 
industrial efficiency. The chart does not exhibit indications of 
fatigue, but the further problem is not solved as to whether 
under other conditions the vertical rise might not have been 
higher with the horizontal line of hourly output maintained 
at a higher level. An instance bearing upon such a possibility 
has come under notice of a highly organised engineering factory 
employed on repetition work. The chart of the hourly output 
of this factory in 1918 was of D type. On January 1st, 1919, 
the hours of work were reduced from forty-eight per week to 
forty ; no other alteration was made except that the wages, 
which were paid on time basis (not on piece rates), were raised 
so that each worker received rather over 15 per cent, more 
for the forty-hour week than he did previously for the forty- 
eight-hour week. Soon after the reduction in hours the previous 
output was by so much overtaken and passed (the curve of 
hourly output maintaining the D type) that the costs of pro- 
duction were reduced. 

Examine now in the same way the daily output records shown 
graphically in Fig. 4, in which the output of Saturdays, 
for reasons unnecessary to enumerate, is neglected and not 
shown. In chart 1 the output rises fairly steeply from Monday 
to Wednesday and then falls off ; in chart 2 it rises less steeply 



DIURNAL VARIATIONS IN OUTPUT 



97 



and attains its maximum on Thursday and then falls off ; 
in chart 3 it rises less steeply still, attains a maximum on 
Thursday, and falls off less on Friday ; in chart 4 the rise is 
slight and very gradual up to Friday : in fact, the line approxi- 
mates to the horizontal line in chart D. The hours of labour 
and the character of the work, of which the diagram represents 
the daily output, threw (having regard to the workers being 
women or men) relatively more strain on the 140 women 
employed at cartridge case (rifle) operations than on the 1,000 
women at lathe operations, and on the latter group more than 
on the 1,000 men and 300 women of chart 2 ; while the lightest 



103 

100 
97 

103 
k 
$ 100 

97 

I 103 
*u 100 



" 

103 
100 

97 

94 




Mori Tu. Wed. Th. Fri. 

FIG. 4. Diurnal Variation of Day-shift Output. 



1 men working 53 hours a 
week at turning and boring 
3-inch shells. 



1,000 men and 300 women 
working 58 hours a week 
at Jathe operations, presses 
for 18-lb. cartridge cases, 
&c. 



1,000 women working 58$ 
hours a week at lathe 
operations, and stamping 
fuze parts. 



140 women working 57 '4 
hours a week at cartridge- 
case (rifle) operation*. 



Reproduced from. (3). 



task fell to the eighty-one men employed fifty -three hours turning 
and boring three-inch shells. The conclusion to be drawn 
is that in charts 1, 2, and 3 the week-end rest did not permit 
fatigue to be recovered from, and that some was carried over 
to the next week. Practice effect, however, comes into play 
and increases the daily output until overcome by further 
fatigue effects ; and this occurs earlier in the week, as the strain 
of the previous week has been greater. The less the strain the 
later in the week does the practice effect extend until in chart 4 
it reaches Friday, and the workers start again on Monday but 
little below their full capacity. 

Further evidence of the effect of fatigue, not recovered from 
at the week-end, being carried over into the next week, and 



98 



INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 



sooner or later neutralising practice effect, is suggested by data 
published by Kent (4). As, however, the output records pub- 
lished only concern small groups of workers (three in number), 
and consequently the actual values are subject to large errors 
of sampling, the following table (which does not give real output 
figures) has been constructed merely to show the method of 
investigation. The workers are considered to have been em- 
ployed for the hours stated for several months : 

Scheme of Probable Hourly Output where Long Hours are 
practised and then shortened. 



Spell of work. 


Monday. 


Tuesday. 


Wednes- 
day. 


Thursday. 


Friday. 


6 a.m. to 8 a.m. 


180 


200 


240 


250 


220 


8.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. 


240 


250 


225 


230 


210 


1.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m.. 


250 


240 


220 


210 


200 


6 p.m. to 8 p.m. 


210 


205 


195 


190 


180 


6 a.m. to 8 a.m. 




Not worked 








8.30 a.m. to 12 noon . 


300 


315 


320 


325 


330 


1.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. . 


305 


320 


325 


325 


330 


6 p.m. to 8 p.m. 





Not worked 





~~~ 






Examine first the upper part of this hypothetical table. 
Note how in the early morning spell, 6 to 8 a.m., when the workers 
are freshest, practice effect extends up to Thursday : that is to 
say, the maximum output, from 6 to 8 a.m., is attained in the 
morning spell of that day ; how in the mid-morning period the 
maximum hourly output for this spell is attained on Tuesday ; 
how in the afternoon spell the Monday rate of output is never 
again equalled ; and how the same holds good for the output 
of the overtime hours, which at best is poor. Now observe the 
output during each day ; on Monday it rises to the afternoon 
spell, on Tuesday it only rises to the morning spell, while on 
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday the hourly output before 
breakfast is greatest. Look now at the lower part of the table, 
which is supposed to represent the output when overtime and 
before-breakfast work have been discontinued for some weeks ; 
the rate of hourly output now climbs both in the morning and 
in the afternoon up to Friday, and the daily rate of hourly 
output is increased or maintained throughout each day. 

The instances given above refer to groups of workers, and, 
although when large groups are under investigation valuable 
deductions can b drawn, they are open to the grave objection 
that individual workers are lost sight of in the averages calcu- 
lated. Thus theoretically a group of twenty workers might 



CHOICE OF WORKERS 99 

be made up of ten exceptionally good workers and ten excep- 
tionally bad workers, and the average output of the group 
would not be representative of either component. Where 
the output of individual workers can be obtained, especially il 
paid piece rates which ensure the maintenance of an incentive, 
more valuable information can be obtained by intensive investi- 
gation of the output of each worker. An instance which recently 
came under notice will illustrate this point : Investigation of 
the group output for several small sets of workers suggested 
that alteration in hours or conditions was needed for the pro- 
cesses concerned ; intensive study, however, brought out that' 
in each set the output of two or three workers rose steadily 
throughout the week, and further that the output of these 
workers was uniformly considerably above that of the others : 
i.e., although their output was much greater, they were in no 
way subject to over-fatigue. The conclusions which emerged 
were that the processes were suited to the best workers, to the 
round pegs in round holes, and that the poorer workers, whose 
output data indicated the presence of over-fatigue, were square 
pegs attempting unsuccessfully to accommodate themselves 
to round holes ; the hours of work and conditions of labour 
were not so much at fault as the selection of workers for the 
particular processes (25). 

Charts should be kept for each worker showing the rise and 
fall of earnings. Normally the line should rise steadily from 
day to day, and from week to week, as the worker becomes more 
and more expert, or at least keep on a level. If, on the other 
hand, the line is falling, inquiry should be made by the welfare 
superintendent into the health and well-being of the worker 
concerned. Other instances might be quoted of the use of output 
records to detect the presence of industrial fatigue, but enough 
has been said to indicate their value and to point the way for 
their extended use. 

Lost Time and Sickness. The axiom being accepted that 
fatigue has a large share in the promotion of disease, the occur- 
rence of sickness among the personnel of a factory (apart from 
seasonal variations and epidemics like those of influenza) must 
be discussed when the presence of fatigue is under consideration. 
The amount of sickness experienced is, however, for various 
reasons (discussed by Loveday in his able monograph (5) ), 
often not disclosed by medical certification, and lies concealed 
in records of total time lost ; further, a worker may not be 
definitely on the sick-list, but will miss work before breakfast 
or even for half a day on account of fatigue. Total lost time 
includes not only time lost due to industrial fatigue, whether 



100 



INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 



in the stage of tiredness, which may appear as indifference, 
slackness, laziness, or discontent, or in the stage of definite 
sickness, but also time lost for other reasons, for example, a 
breakdown of transit facilities, wintry weather, domestic duties 
of women or alcoholic habits. Generally speaking, time lost 
for these other reasons will remain steady or only fluctuate 
with non-industrial conditions, such as weather and the season 
of the year. The way general sickness varies with the seasons 
is well shown in the following diagram, which is based on the 
statistics of sick benefit of a large and important trade union. 
On the other hand, time lost due to industrial fatigue will be 
related to industrial phenomena, and examination of lost time 
records should be made to see whether such a relation exists. 

The method of calculating lost time must first be determined. 
Different methods are employed in different places, and the 



Jan. Feb. Mar Apr May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. NoV Dec. 

FIG. 5. Seasonal Variations in Sickness. Reproduced from (5). 

method in use must be carefully ascertained. The simplest 
method is a statement of the total hours possible to have been 
worked and of the total number of hours lost. Thus, in a 
factory working a fifty-hour week and employing 200 workers 
the total possible hours would be 10,000 ; if each worker lost on 
an average two hours a week, there would be 400 hours lost 
altogether, that is 4 per cent, of lost time. The crude figure so 
obtained is a useful one when investigating industrial fatigue. 
Managers, however, in the interests of industrial efficiency, 
dislike unexpected absences, and often classify lost time as 
" unavoidable " due to certified sickness or by leave obtained, 
and as " avoidable " when no certificate is sent in and no leave 
has been obtained ; and in some establishments a bonus is given 
to those who have no " avoidable " lost time debited against 
them at the end of the week. Since, however, " nearly all 
records under-state, and most records under-state greatly, the 
proportion of lost time due to sickness and other unavoidable 
causes," this distinction must not be pressed too far when 



LOST TIME 



101 



considering lost time records as indications of fatigue; still 
valuable information can be obtained by subjecting lost time 
records to close analysis, which may be done in a variety of ways. 
For example, the number of workers losing time may be grouped 
according to the length of periods lost, whether less than a day, 
a whole day, or longer. Investigation on these lines has estab- 
lished that an undue number of periods of le&s than a day are 
lost when the hours of work are so distributed that work com- 
mences before breakfast. The following table shows the result 
of an investigation conducted on these lines : 







Percentage of men losing 
avoidably 


Hours lost. 










- 




Avoidably. 


Through sick- 
ness or leave. 


Total. 






a3 
' 


43 




o 






05 

3 






,0 




|. 






p 




e 


si 





CO S 


. 05 


co co 


05 


as 2 


1 


System. 


nder five ho 
week. 


Five hours 
under ten 


m hours or 


s* 

"1 


Per employ 
(hours). 


r cent, of po 
normal hou 


Per employ 
(hours). 


fH 

! 


Per employ 
(hours). 


r cent, of po 
normal hou 






P 




EH 











s 




t 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


(6) 


(7) 


(8) 


(9) 


(10) 


(11) 


(12) 




1 1 -break 


_ 


_ 


_ 


_ 


0-470 


_ 


1-200 




1-670 


3-1 


No. 1 


2 -break 


23-9 


5-5 


6-6 


36-1 


1-692 




1-237 




2-929 






1 












3-2 




2-3 




5-5 


No. 2 


| 2 -break 


22-3 


2-8 


5-7 


30-9 


1-458 


2-7 


1-197 


2-2 


2-655 


5-0 


No. 3 


1- break 
I 


0-4 


0-5. 


0-06 


1-0 


0-060 


0-1 


1-197 


2-2 


1-257 


2-38 



Three factories are concerned, working the same number of 
hours fifty-three per week. These hours were, however, 
distributed differently. For No. 3 and No. 1 under the one-break 
system the hours were : 

Monday to Thursday . 8 1, 2 7. 

Friday . . . 81, 26. 

Saturday . . . 8 12. 

For No. 2 and No. 1 under the two-break system the hours 
were : 

Monday to Thursday . 6.458.30, 91, 26. 

Friday . . . 6.458.30, 91, 25.30. 

Saturday . . . 6.458.30, 912. 

Information, except for the figures given in columns 1 1 and 1 2, 
is lacking for No. 1 under the one-break system ; and the figure 
in column 7 is obtained by subtracting the average of column 9, 
i.e., 1-2, from the figure 1-67 of column 11. The data for No. 3 
may be taken to represent the normal distribution of lost time 



102 



INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 



under the one-break system, and the data of No. 1 while under 
this system are seen to have a similar distribution ; the data 
for No. 2 may be taken to represent the normal distribution 
under the two-break system, and again the data of No. 1 are 







seen to conform. Examination of lost time records can then, 
as in these instances, indicate that the hours of work are badly 
arranged. Loveday has investigated carefully on these lines, 
and from the body of evidence collected concludes that of the 
disadvantages arising from working before breakfast the most 
serious perhaps though all are serious is the inferiority of 



LOST "QUARTERS'* io3 

hungry work, its bad effect upon health, and the temptation to 
lose time owing to the shortness of the early spell, a conclusion 
of great import to the well-being of industrial workers. 

Another way of investigating records of lost time is to examine 
the distribution according to the days of the week, An irregular 
distribution day by day when repeated week by week, as shown in 
diagram 6, suggests that employment and not home conditions 
is the real influence. This diagram shows the distribution for 
each day of the week of " quarters " * lost by men employed 
long hours at heavy engineering work ; and the curve has had 
this form for years. Pay in this factory is accounted to Tuesday, 
which may explain the drop on that day ; otherwise the tendency 
is for improvement to occur throughout the week. This ten- 
dency is so contrary to what might have been expected as a 
result of fatigue accumulating day after day during the week 
that it calls for comment. The real explanation seems to be 
that the week-end break is not long enough to enable recupera- 
tion to be completed ; the swing of the pendulum of internal 
activity, i.e., rest, is still ascending on Monday morning, and 
it can with difficulty be reversed. There is each Monday the 
drag of the flesh against beginning the same old grind again 
instead of the urge to activity which should follow rest. Accept- 
ing this explanation, a distribution of lost time which is highest 
at the beginning of the week, and falls off through the week, 
may be held to indicate that the week-end rest in relation to the 
hours worked is too short. Either of two remedies can be 
applied : the week-end can be lengthened, or the number of hours 
worked can be shortened. 

Extra-factorial influences, such as domestic duties of women, 
transit facilities, personal habits and hobbies, have been found 
to affect lost time ; in one instance a firm on investigation found 
that the group of best time-keepers included a large proportion 
of allotment gardeners, whereupon several hundred pounds 
annually were devoted to encouraging gardening among the 
workers, with excellent results in diminishing lost time. 

Important investigations could be made into the relation 
between occupation and sickness of different kinds if the medical 
certification of time lost due to sickness were accurate and the 
kind of sickness suffered from were stated. Unfortunately in 
this country no data exist for such investigations, a matter 
which has been dealt with in an earlier chapter. The importance 
of such investigations in throwing light upon the causation of 
common ailments, often the forerunners of serious illness, can 

* A "^quarter " is a term used to denote the before- breakfast spell of 
work. 



104 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

hardly be over-- estimated. The environment of industrial 
employment exposes workers to a variety of influences not to be 
found elsewhere, and the science of medicine would be greatly 
advanced if the effect of these influences could be ascertained. 

Labour Turnover. The subject of labour turnover, or wastage 
of workers, is discussed later, and the method of measuring it 
described. Attention is there drawn to the way in which the 
rate of wastage is usually greatest immediately after engage- 
ment and becomes steadier as the length of employment 
becomes longer. If industrial fatigue is a function of indus- 
trial activity, wastage of workers would seem at first sight to 
be in no way connected with fatigue. In fact, the reverse 
is the case. The fresh worker on engagement has forthwith to 
keep the pace of the factory ; there is no period of breaking in ; 
boys and girls who were yesterday attending school in familiar 
surroundings are expected to-day for eight, nine or even ten 
hours to face the noise and toil of modern industrial life sur- 
rounded by strange faces and stranger tasks. Even if they have 
been employed before and are accustomed to the hours of work, 
still they find themselves strangers amid unfamiliar surroundings. 
No wonder then that the strain is greatest and the effects of 
fatigue are obvious in the first few days and weeks of employ- 
ment ! Those least able to withstand it leave, and only the fittest 
survive. The importance of this question has only recently been 
expounded, and sufficient data have not yet been gathered to 
establish accurately the possible relations between the amount 
of wastage, hours of labour, and severity of work. Evidence 
has, however, been gathered by one of us (6) to show that 
organised welfare work is of great value in lessening wastage by 
tempeiing the wind to the shorn lamb, and to justify the 
recommendation that where more than 20 per cent, of entrants 
are lost within three months a special inquiry should be made. 
If a high rate of wastage depends upon strain and fatigue, then 
the " survivors " must also be exposed to the same influences ; 
and, although they have withstood them better, in the long run 
they should also be affected. Agnew has investigated (7) this 
point in relation to hours of labour by subjecting a large number 
of " survivors " (i.e., workers found at work) to medical examina- 
tion. He found that among' men employed for less than 
seventy hours a week he was unable to place 22-1 per cent, in 
the physical class A, but that 31-4 percent, of those working 
seventy hours or more failed to reach this standard ; and of the 
boys 6*7 per cent, of those working less than sixty hours were 
below class A, as contrasted with 10-6 per cent, of those working 
sixty hours or more, a serious difference. He considers it 



ACCIDENTS AND FATIGUE 105 

permissible to draw the conclusion that long hours exercise a 
prejudicial effect upon average gem-nil health. 

Wastage of workers may then be considered a useful but 
indirect way of determining that the strain of employment is 
producing among the workers a diminished capacity for doing 
work. 

Looked at from another point of view, wastage of workers, 
especially in the early months of employment, indicates a lack 
of efficiency. Vernon has shown (3) that even for simple repeti- 
tion processes workers may require from three to four months 
of practice in order to attain a level of efficiency. A high rate 
of wastage therefore during these months must mean that an 
undue proportion of the workers never acquire a reasonable 
proficiency, and that the personnel of the establishment as a 
whole is maintained with a diminished capacity for doing work. 

Industrial Accidents. The claim has been made that an 
accident is frequently the result of inattention and clumsiness 
resulting from fatigue, and that the frequency of accidents may 
be taken as a measure of fatigue. The insistence with which 
this claim has been advanced entitles it to consideration, but 
before it can ( be accepted if requires carefully sifting. An 
industrial accident is the result of industrial activity ; ceteris 
paribus the greater the exposure to accidents that is, the greater 
the activity the greater is the chance of accidents occurring. 
And that is what occurs, as has been shown by Vernon, who, 
after an intensive inquiry (8), concludes that speed of production 
is the essential factor in accident causation which can never be 
neglected. After pursuing his inquiries into the frequency of 
accidents by the hour, by the day, and by the month, and com- 
paring it with variations in output for similar periods, he states 
as regards : 

(a) Day Shift Variations : That varying speed of production 
is the factor largely responsible for variations of accidents in 
men and not fatigue. Even in women fatigue is of only 
moderate importance as a rule. 

(b) Diurnal Variations : That they generally correspond with 
the output variations, as both rose to a maximum in the middle 
of the week and declined at the end of it. 

(c) Monthly Variations : That they correspond with output 
variations, for -the accidents increased gradually about 40 per 
cent., whilst the hourly output at the same time increased 
50 per cent. 

Vernon stresses the point that the speeding up of 10 per cent, 
in output may induce a larger increase of accidents, even up to 
50 or 100 per cent. Every process carries its own liability to 



106 



INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 



accident ; increase of output, while increasing this liability, will 
increase it to an extent which cannot be determined except by 
experiment. Increase of accidents is then primarily an indication 
of an increase rather than a decrease in working capacity, of 
activity rather than of fatigue. 

TABLE A. Cuts per 10,000 Lathe Workers per Week. 







Men. 


Women. 


Hour. 


7 5 -hour 
week. 


54J-hour 
week. 


7 5 -hour 
week. 


54-hour 
week. 


7.30 to 


8.30 . 


24 


34 


17 


15 


8.30 to 


9.30 . 


33 


55 


26 


33 


9.30 to 


10.30 . 


64 


65 


.72 


47 


10.30 to 


11.30 . 


54 


75 


90 


50 


1.30 to 


2.30 . 


50 


55 


80 


42 


2.30 to 


3.30 . 


46 


61 


72 


42 


3.30 to 


4.30 . 


48 


58 


80 


37 


4.30 to 


5.30 . 


44 


72 


63 


35 



Nevertheless Vernon has been able to show that fatigue does 
affect the frequency of accidents. Compare the figures of 
Table A, in which the average number of cuts sustained per hour 
during the day per 10,000 workers are given for the same hours 
of the day for both men and women under two periods of em- 
ployment, the one very long, seventy-five hours a week, and 
the other shorter, fifty-four and a half hours per week (alternating 
every fortnight with sixty-two and a half hours on night shift). 
The data for the first and last half-hours of each spell of work 
are omitted from the table. The workers were employed using 
lathes, drills and other machines with cutting tools. From these 
and other data Vernon concludes that as a rule for men employed 
at such work fatigue has but little influence in the causation of 
accidents ; but that fatigue due to overlong hours, such as 
seventy-five per week, does increase the accident rate among 
women, and does this by raising the accident rate throughout 
the spell rather than by causing an excess of accidents at the 
end of the day, when fatigue should be most present. This point 
is clearly established by comparing the accident rates for women 
during the afternoon spell of the two periods. 

Dr. Vernon's interesting study of the effect the length of work- 
ing hours exerts upon the occurrence of accidents brought out 



ACCIDENTS AND NEW WORKERS 



107 



further the difference between the reactions of men and women, 
as shown in the following table : 

TABLE B. Relationship between Accidents in Fatigue Period 
and in Subsequent Period. 



Type of accident. 


Ratio of accident 
frequency in 
fatigue period to 
that in subsequent 
fourteen months. 


Ratio of afternoon accidents to 
morning accidents. 


In fatigue period. 


In subsequent 
fourteen months. 


Men. 


Women. 


Men. 


Women. 


Men. 


Women. 


Cuts . . . 
Foreign bodies in eye 
Burns 
Sprains 
Previous injuries 


1-14 
0-65 
1-16 

1-27 
1-43 


2-73 
2-09 
3-50 
2-95 
3-01 


1-07 
0-90 
1-31 
0-92 

(0-46) 


1-45 
1-61 

1-29 
0-72 

(0-82) 


1-08 
0-98 
0-76 
0-63 

(0-59) 


1-17 
1-67 
1-12 

0-80 
(0-53) 


Weighed mean 


1-20 


2-87 


1-06 


1-29 


1-00 


I'll 



The women suffered 2 '87 times as many accidents in the 
seventy-five hour week as subsequently, but the men only 
1-20 times, an increase practically identical with the extra 
number of hours worked. Translated into figures in relation to 
cuts (far the most frequent of the accidents included), from 
November 2nd, 1915, to January 31st, 1916 (during which time 
a twelve-hour day was worked), the weekly rate per 10,000 men 
was 491, and from February 1st to May 1st, 1916 (when a ten- 
hour day was worked), the rate was 426 ; while for women the 
rates weje 678 and 257 respectively. 

A further detailed investigation has been conducted in 
America (28) into the effect upon the occurrence of accidents 
in the first place of work and in the second of diminishing neuro- 
muscular co-ordination of which the occurrence of accidents 
may be taken as an indication. The evidence as given exhibits 
the influence w r hich speed of production, owing to increased 
exposure to risk, exerts upon the prevalence of accidents, and 
the way in which accidents increase out of proportion to produc- 
tion when fatigue is present due either to long hours or to heavy 
work. Emphasis is also laid on the way in which the accident 
rate varies inversely with the experience of the workers ; and 
information embodied in the following table shows how 48-5 per 
cent, of the accidents occurred among 34-2 per cent, of the 
workers in their first six months of employment, while only 
51-5 per cent, occurred among the 65-8 per cent, of the workers 
with longer periods of employment. This distribution of acci- 



108 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

dents must invalidate any conclusion drawn from a comparison 
between the hourly incidence of accidents and the hourly output 
of workers unless both accidents and output refer to workers 
with similar periods of employment. Such a comparison 
would be further invalidated owing to output (taken to represent 
increased exposure to risk) varying directly with the experience 
of the workers, so that the 65-8 per cent, of workers with more 
than six months' experience would be responsible for consider- 
ably more than 65-8 per cent, of the output. 

TABLE C. Distribution of Accidents and of Workers at a 
Ten-hour Plant according to Period of Employment. 

i 

Period of employment. 



Percentage of 


First three 
months. 


Three 
to six 
months. 


Six to nine 
months. 


Nine to 
twelve 
months. 


Twelve 
months 
and over. 


Workers 


28-0 


6-2 


6-6 


6-2 


53-0 


Accidents 


34 
34-7 


2 
13-8 


5-1 


65-8 
2-5 


43-9 


, 


4* 


*-5 




51 : 5 





The conclusions to be drawn are that : 

(1) Accident rates vary hour by hour with the rate of output, 
but the variations bear no definite relation to the rise and fall of 
this rate. 

(2) Pronounced fatigue increases the frequency of accidents, 
but the rate of accident occurrence hour by hour or spell by 
spell does not provide any definite measure of the presence of 
fatigue. 

The utmost that can be suggested is that if the accident rate 
of the afternoon exceeds by much that of the morning, then a 
case is made for further investigation into fatigue by other 
methods. 



VIII. Influences contributing to Industrial Fatigue. 

Industrial fatigue is the sum of the results of industrial 



activity ; it depends primarily on expenditure of physical energy 
in doing work which varies as the work is medium or light, quick 
or slow, intermittent or continuous ; but other influences affect 
the amount of energy available and the way in which it is 



HOURS OF LABOUR 109 

expended. These influences can be placed in two groups. The 
iirst comprises influences not generally considered to be under 
the control of employers, which concern time spent outside hours 
of labour. They include housing conditions, facilities for 
transit to and from work, and means for healthy recreation. 
The second includes the number of hours of labour and their 
distribution, the conditions of employment and methods of work. 

The first group is of undoubted importance, and, during the 
stress entailed in producing munitions for the war, was thrust 
forward to the public notice. Overcrowding of houses resulted 
in single beds being used for three workers at once, and being- 
used for night workers by day and day workers by night ; 
inadequate train, tram, and omnibus services rendered the 
capture of even standing room a daily struggle in which only the 
fittest survived ; the absence in crowded munition centres of 
places wherein to spend a quiet hour or to vary the monotony 
of toil with healthy recreation left the worker only the streets 
with their undesirable associations. These influences, accen- 
tuated in war time, but normally present, materially affect the 
amount of energy available for working hours. They call for 
close attention from employers of labour ; but opportunities 
seldom arise of demonstrating accurately their influence upon 
the production of industrial fatigue, and up to the present no 
comprehensive study has been made setting out statistically 
the importance of this group of influences. 

The second group of influences which are more intimately 
under control has been the subject of much inquiry and research. 
It includes the length and distribution of hours of labour, the 
varying conditions of factory life under which work is carried on, 
and methods of employment practised. Modification of either 
of these influences may have a great effect upon the occurrence 
of fatigue. 

Hours of Labour. 

The importance of fixing the right number of hours of labour 
is coming more and more to be recognised. The idea that if a 
worker can make 100 articles in an hour he ought to make 
1,000 in ten hours, 1,200 in twelve hours or even 1,400 in fourteen 
hours, is seen to be as foolish as to expect a runner, who can 
sprint 100 yards in ten seconds, to cover a mile in 176 seconds ; 
and the dictum of the Manchester School of Industrial Econo- 
mists in the middle of last century that " it is in the last hour 
of work that profits are made " (without any regard to the 
number of hours previously worked *) is now countered by the 

* Even then controverted by tKe experience of Owen (9) 



110 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

truth that " overtime does not pay." In many cases the 
shortening of hours has resulted in an increase in total output, 
because there is a longer interval for the removal from the tissues 
of fatigue products and for the building up of fresh energy. 
The classic instance of the shortening of hours took place 
March 1st, 1893, to February 28th, 1894, when the engineering 
works of Messrs. Mather and Platt at Salford changed from a 
fifty-three-hour week to a forty-eight-hour week by abolishing 
all work before breakfast and re-arranging hours to 7.45 a.m. 
to 12 noon, and 1 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. The results showed : (a) that 
there was an increase of 0-4 per cent, in the ratio of the wages 
cost to the turnover ; (b) that there was a saving in gas, electri- 
city, fuel, wear and tear, etc., amounting, by coincidence, to 
0-4 per cent. ; (c) that there was a fall in the amount *of lost time 
from 2-46 per cent, in the fifty-three hour period to 0*46 per cent, 
in the forty-eight-hour period ; (d) that though pieceworkers 
lost 1-76 at the beginning of the trial year, this fell to 0-78 per 
cent, at the end ; and (e) that there was " increased cheerfulness 
and brightness " on the part of the workpeople. " We seem," 
wrote Sir William Mather in 1894, " to have been working in 
harmony with natural law, instead of against it, as in the 
unnatural conditions of men beginning the work of the day 
without provision required by nature for the proper exercise 
of their mental faculties and physical powers ... Of this I 
am assured, that the most economical production is obtained 
by employing men only so long as they are at their best 
when this stage is passed there is no true economy in their 
continued work." 



TABLE D. Fifty -six Men sizing Fuse Bodies. 



Week ending 


Actual hours 
of work per 
week. 


Relative out- 
put per work- 
ing hour. 


Hours of work 

X 

relative output. 


Nov. 1.4 to Dec. 19 
Feb. 27 to April 16 
May 28 to July 16 
July 22 to Aug. 5 
Sept. 2 to Sept. 23 
Oct. 7 to Nov. 4 
Noy. 11- to Dec. 16 


58-2 
50-5 
52-1 
46-3 
47-6 
51-3 
51-2 


100 
122 
119 
123 
135 
137 
139 


5,820 (= 100) 
6,161 (= 106) 
6,200 (= 107) 

6,426 (= 110) 
7,028 (= 121) 
7,117 (= 122) 



Another demonstration is furnished from the work done by 
Dr. Vernon during war-time (3). The following tables sum- 
marise his study of output of workers employed for varying 
hours upon different operations. Table D refers to men 



EFFECT OF SHORTENING HOURS 



111 



employed in sizing fuse bodies a heavy, strenuous task, 
comparable to that with which Chart A on p. 94 is concerned ; 
the rate" of work was entirely determinable by the operatives, 
not by the pace of machines. The hours were reduced 12 per 
cent, and the output rose 22 per cent. 

The next table (Table E) shows how, when the hours of 
women employed on moderately heavy work, turning aluminium 
fuse bodies a process in which speeding-up was possible to a 
limited extent were reduced 31 per cent, the output rose 9 per 
cent. 



TABLE E. Ninety-five or Eighty Women turning 
Aluminium Fuse Bodies. 







Rela- 








Actual 
hours 


tive 
output 


Hours of work 




Week ending 


of work 


per 


relative 


Remarks concerning Output. 




per 
week. 


work- 
ing 


output. 








hour. 






Nov. 14 to Dec. 19 . 


66-2 


100 


6,620 (=100) 




Feb. 27 to April 16_ . 


53-4 


123 


6,568 (= 99) 


Total output only 1 per cent, 
less than in pre -Christmas 










period, though weekly hours of 










work are 12-8 less. 


May 14 to July 2 


54-8 


134 


7.343 (=111) 


Total output reaches a maxi- 










mum 1 1 per cent, greater than 










that of pre -Christmas period, 










though weekly hours of work 










are 11-4 less. 


July 9 to July 23 


50-0 


132 





Workers went on to night shift 










for three weeks. 


July 30 to Aug. 19 . 


47-0 


124 





Fall of output may be due to 










slackness resultant on depriva- 










tion of usual holiday. No 










more Sunday labour after 










August 6th. 


August 26 











Holiday for a week (to compen- 
sate for loss of Whitsuntide and 










August holidays). 


Sept. 2 to Sept. 23 . 


49-9 


135 


6,737 (=102) 


Hourly output rises again to 










that of the May-June period, 










but abolition of Sunday labour 










has not yet had any obvious 










effect. 


Sept. 30 . 











Further four days' holiday 










(general holiday, by Govern- 










ment o'rder). 


Oct. 7 to Nov. 4 


48-3 


144 


6,955 (=105) 


Further rise of hourly output 










due to holiday and to abolition 










of Sunday labour. 


Nov. 11 to Dec. 16 . 


45-6 


158 


7,205 (=109) 


Influence of shorter hours and of 










abolition of Sunday labour now 










well established. Total out- 










put 9 per ceht. greater than it 










was a year ago, though weekly 










hours of work are 20-6 less. 



The third table (Table F) records the output of women 
employed on light work, milling screw threads a process at 
which for four-fifths of her time the operative stood idly watching 
her machine, and could only quicken her working speed in the 
remaining one- fifth. Here a reduction in hours of 25-9 per cent, 
only reduced the output 1 per cent 



112 



INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 



TABLE F. - Forty Women milling a Screw Thread. 







Rela- 






Week ending 


Actual 
hours 
of work 


tive 
output 
per 


Hours of 
work x 
relative 


Remarks concerning output. 




per 
week. 


work- 
ing 


output. 








hour. 






Nov. 21 to Dec. 19 . 


64-9 


100 


6,490 (=100) 




Feb. 27 to April 1(5 . 


55-4 





6,039 ( = 93) 




May 28 to July 9 


54-6 


114 


6,224 ( = 96) 




July 16 to Aug. 6 


54-8 


121 


6,631 (=102) 


Total output reaches its maxi- 










mum 2 percent, more than in 






, 




November-December period, 










though weekly hours of work 










are 10-1 less. 


Aug. 12 . 


29-5 


123 





Reduction of hours owing to 


Aug. 19 . 


38-1 


122 





temporary shortage of material. 


Aug. 26 . 


, 


. 




Holiday for a week. 


Sept. 2 to Sept. 23 . 


45-5 


121 


5,506 ( *= 85) 


No immediate response to 










abolition of Sunday labour, so 










total output falls considerably. 


Oct. 14 to Nov. 18 . 


4-l 


133 


6,397 ( = 99) 


Total output only 1 per cent. 










less than in November- 










December period, though 










weekly hours of work are 16-8 
less. 



The fourth table (Table G) is of interest because, although 
the process boring top caps was light work, it gave hardly 
any opportunity for acceleration. The hours were reduced 
24-8 per cent., and output fell by 3 per cent. 

TABLE G. Fifteen Youths boring Top Caps. 



Statistical period. 


Actual hours 
of work 
per week. 


Relative out- 
put per work- 
ing hour. 


Hours of work 
x - 
relative output. 


Nov. 15 to Dec. 19 
Jan. 3 to Feb. 13 
Feb. 21 to April 16 
May 1 to May 28 . 
Mav 29 to July 2 
July 3 to Sept. 23 (day shift) 

July 2 to Sept. 23 (night shift) . 


72-5 
69-1 
54-8 
54-7 
47-4 
52-8 ) 
^54-5 
56-2 I 


100 
106 
108 
117 
124 
129 j 
V129 
128 ) 


7,250 (= 100) 
7,325 (= 101) 

6,400 (-88) 
7,030 ( = 97) 



Emphasis must be laid upon this first-rate piece of statistical 
investigation. We find that to immure women within the 
factory walls twenty hours longer than a particular time actually 
results in obtaining fewer manufacturerd articles ; this cannot, 
therefore, be defended on any grounds. By application of the 
statistical method of plotting gross outputs as ordinates against 
working hours as abscissae (see Fig. 7) Vernon, using the data 
of the tables, suggests the possibility of estimating the probable 
hourly output to be anticipated if the hours are further reduced ; 
this is shown by the dotted continuations of the curves in the 



EFFECT OF SHORTENING HOURS 



113 



chart. Thus, had the hours of the " men sizing " been further 
reduced to 47 1 per week, the probable relative output per hour 
would have risen from 139 to about 158 ; but with the " youths 
boring " a reduction of hours to fifty could only be expected to 
raise the hourly output from 126 to about 133. This method 
provides a means of determining for any task the critical point 
beyond which lengthening the working day becomes crudely 
bad business. Humanity, and perhaps policy, as Burke said, 
might justify us in interfering at a level well below the critical 
point ; certainly no policy would justify non-interference at 
that point. This research has placed at the disposal of the State, 
the entrepreneur, or the trade union, a new and valuable instru- 



3 mo 

Ul 

or 



100 




IS" 70 65 60 SS SO 45 4 
WEEKLY HOURS OF WORK 

FIG. 7. Relation of Output to Hours of Work. Reproduced from (3). 



ment of regulation ; it seems to give a new significance to part 
of the negative confession which, according to the Book of the 
Dead, the Egyptians held a dead man was called upon to declare 
to be true when he came for judgment " I have not made to be 
the first consideration of each day that excessive labour should be 
performed for me." 

Hours of labour may be modified in other ways than by 
lengthening or shortening the hours worked. The hours may, 
instead, be redistributed ; thus a fifty-hour week may be 
distributed in either of the following ways : 



A. 



B. 



6.308.30 
912 
15 



- (2 + 3) 6=30 
4X5 =20 



7.3012 
15.30 



X 5 = 



50 7.3012 (Saturday) 



45 
5 



50 



114 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

Experience shows that in Scheme A the first two hours 
worked before breakfast are not so productive as work done 
after food has been taken, and that this scheme is also asso- 
ciated (5) with much lost time owing te workers not coming to 
work until after breakfast, a practice which interferes with the 
work of those who do come (see p. 101). 

Hours may also be modified by the interposition of rest pauses 
and the classical instance here is that given by Frederick 
Taylor (18), the originator of scientific management. Taylor 
accepted as a principle that rest must adequately balance exertion ; 
and after much research (details of which have not been 
published) into the periods that a man should be under load 
and entirely free from load concluded that, " For example 
when pig iron is being handled (each pig weighing 92 
pounds), a first-class workman can only be under load 43 per 
cent, of the day. He must be entirely free from load during 
57 per cent, of the day. And as the load becomes lighter, the 
percentage of the day under which the man can remain under 
load increases. So that, if the workman is handling half-pig, 
weighing 46 Ibs., he can then be under load 58 per cent, of the 
day, and only has to rest during 42 per cent." 

He then examined the output of men employed loading pig 
iron into railway cars, and found that a gang of about seventy- 
five men, considered- to be good average pig-iron handlers, were 
loading on an average about twelve and a half long tons per day. 
This amount he considered fell below his estimate of what could be 
done, which indeed suggested the figure of forty-seven long tons. 
A man was found who submitted himself to work exactly as he 
was instructed, and Taylor describes as follows his first day's 
work : " Schmidt started to work, and all day long and at 
regular intervals, was told by the man who stood over him with 
a watch, ' now pick up a pig and walk. Now sit down and rest. 
Now walk, now rest,' etc. He worked when he was told to work, 
and rested when he was told to rest, and at half-past five in the 
afternoon had his forty-seven and a half tons loaded on the car. 
And he practically never failed to work at this pace and do the 
task that was set him during the three years that the writer was 
at Bethlehem." This man was not an exceptional person, for 
other members of the gang were subsequently taught how to 
work in this way, and they attained a similar figure. 

Another instance (1) is that of two officers at the front, who 
for a friendly wager competed in making equal lengths of a 
certain trench, each with an equal squad of men. . One let his 
men work as they pleased, but as hard as possible. The other 
divided his men into three sets, to work in rotation, each set 



REST PAUSES 115 

digging their hardest for five minutes and then resting for ten, 
till their spell of labour came again. The latter team won 
easily. Organisation of heavy industrial work paid by time rate 
on such lines would probably provoke hirers of labour to say they 
were paying men for two-thirds of their time for doing nothing ! 
While if paid by piece rate, labour is found to object that oppor- 
tunity is withheld for earning more wages ! 

Workers will often arrange their work to obtain pauses, and 
one of the authors found " a group of workers, men and women, 
paid on a time wage, employed from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. with two 
half-hour meal intervals at the process of emptying and filling a 
series of presses. Each press, after being filled, has to be left 
under hydraulic pressure for thirty-five minutes, during which 
time other presses in the series are emptied and filled. The 
management calculated the number of presses to each series, 
which would allow the work to be done in thirty-five minutes at 
a reasonable pace ; but the workers on their own initiative have 
adopted a different method. They work w|th a rapidity so 
organised that the series of presses is emptied and filled in less 
than twenty-five minutes, after which they rest for ten or twelve 
minutes until the time comes to begin again. The work entails 
the expenditure of a fair amount of physical energy ; and it was 
interesting to watch these operatives swing into their labour in 
order to obtain their rest pause " (10). 

The employers at another factory fix the day's work of 
juveniles employed on packing, and allow them to leave when 
the work is done. This plan was adopted because wages, which 
were simply handed over to parents each week, were found to 
provide no sufficient incentive to quick and accurate work ; but 
the incentive offered of earning an hour or more of freedom each 
day by working quickly has proved an entire success ; and the 
pride felt by a young girl in finishing at 3 p.m. is reflected in her 
gait as she smilingly leaves the factory. 

A further instance of the value of rest-pauses, in this case as 
long as twenty minutes in every hour, is reported from the boot 
and shoe trade by J. Loveday (25). A total increase of output 
on six power presses of over 44 per cent, was obtained. The 
output of the comparatively unskilled and less robust workers, 
_who would naturally be more liable to fatigue, was found to be 
increased to a greater extent than that of the more skilled 
workers. 

Additional evidence bearing upon the value of rest pauses is to 
be found in the American publication already referred to (28), 
In the majority of processes submitted to the experiment of 
introducing in five-hour spells of work a ten-minute break mid- 

83 



116 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

morning and mid-afternoon a distinct increase of output resulted, 
amounting in one instance to 25-9 per cent. ; less satisfactory 
results followed a similar experiment in the case of four-hour 
spells. Generally the tendency of the ten-minute break to 
increase output both in the five-hour spells and in the four- 
hour spells was greatest among those workers whose original 
output was lowest, that is to say, among those whose efforts 
were expended with the least result ; these workers who might 
be expected to tire more quickly benefited more than rapid 
workers. 

The effect of hours of labour upon output has been discussed 
at some length because the subject is one of immediate practical 
value, and there is sufficient evidence available to demonstrate 
methods of investigation ; the effect upon other indications of 
fatigue of lost time, labour turnover, and the occurrence of 
accidents require similar close study, but references other than 
those which are given elsewhere are here unnecessary. 

Conditions of Employment. 

The conditions under which work is done are intimately 
concerned with the occurrence of fatigue ; a close and overheated 
room will produce a condition of lethargy and a diminished 
capacity for doing work ; too cold a workplace on the other 
hand will slow down fine movements of the fingers and increase 
the liability to accident ; dim light renders work difficult ; 
lights badly placed throw troublesome shadows or cause head- 
ache ; seats, tables and machines not adjusted to the height 
of the workers do not allow of maximum efficiency ; excessive 
noise acting through the organ of hearing tires the whole system ; 
absence of adequate canteen provision often, especially in the 
case of women, leads to the consumption of food insufficient in 
energy value, or lacking in food accessory factors. 

Ventilation. The subject of ventilation of factories and 
workshops has been dealt with elsewhere in this volume. The 
effect of bad ventilation in diminishing the capacity for work 
and in lessening output is certain ; but there is still a lack of 
statistical evidence in support. No study of output data 
under varying conditions of ventilation has been made. Simi- 
larly, the effect of ventilation upon lost time and sickness has 
not been carefully demonstrated, although (22) contains some 
suggestive evidence ; there is only the fact that in summer, 
when more fresh air is admitted, the general sickness rate is 
lower (vide p. 100). Nor is there evidence exhibiting the 
influence ventilation has on labour turnover, or on the occurrence 
of accidents. 



TEMPERATURE 



117 



Temperature. As will be explained later (p. 288) the 
question of temperature cannot be separated from that of 
humidity, and when a high temperature, over 72 F., is com- 
bined with a high humidity the effect in producing fatigue is 




fan. 



Mar 



May 



Sept 



Nov. 



Jan. 

Reproduced 



FIG. 8. Seasonal Variation of Output and of Temperature. 

from (11). 

pronounced. Such conditions occur in humid cotton weaving- 
sheds, and also in the flax industry ; but exact data as to 
the effect upon human activity are difficult to obtain, since 
alterations in temperature and humidity in these industries 
affect the condition of the threads. There are then two factors 



A Coed Ventilation 



3 Modera My good 
vtntilatn 



C. Moderate Ventilation 




ran Mar. May Jut. Sep. Vm. 



Jan Mar May Jul. Sep Nov 



Jan. Har. May Jut. Sep. Nov. /an. 



FIG. 9. Seasonal Variation of Output at Individual Factories. 
Reproduced from (11). 

.- 

concerned, the human body and the thread, both of which 
react to altered conditions ; and so far the two have not been 
disentangled. 

Where the material used is unaffected by temperature, the 
effect upon output has been studied by Dr. H. M. Vernon (11) ; 
thus the appended diagram (Fig. 8) shows how output in the 






118 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

tinplate trade varies with seasonal variations in temperature. 
At factories where special provision was made by mechanical 
ventilation to reduce the temperature in summer the seasonal 
effect upon output was less pronounced than in those factories 
where no such provision was made (see Fig. 9). The same 
investigator has also shown (12) that in the iron and steel 
industry output varying round a mean of 100 may reach as 
high as 107*7 in January, February and March, and fall as low 
as 96 '2 in June, July, August and September. 

An indication of the effect of temperature upon bodily activity 
may be gathered from a study of accident frequency. This 
question also has been investigated among munition workers by 
Vernon (19), who found that accidents were at a minimum at a 
temperature of 65 to 69 F. ; that as the temperature fell, the in- 
cidence of accidents, especially among women, increased steadily ; 
and that when it rose above 70 the incidence rose rapidly. 

Observations made in the silk industry by P. M. Elton (24) 
show that within a range of temperature of 58 F. to 65 F. 
output tends to increase with temperature. 

Human activity, whether measured by output or liability to 
accident, appears to be at an optimum at about 65 F. (see 
also (33) ). 

Lighting. The effect of light upon activity and health is 
discussed in Chapter XIV. 

The only direct observations with which we are acquainted 
demonstrating the effect of lighting upon output have reference 
to the silk industry (24). Here, even with a good system of 
electric lighting, production was found to be less than during 
daylight hours. '' The magnitude of this fall is of the order of 
10 per cent, of the daylight value of the rate of output. Every 
unnecessary hour under artificial light means a direct loss of 
production and makes the task of the worker more difficult 
than it need be." 

Methods of Work. 

There is a wrong way and a right way of doing everything, 
and the right way is often only to be acquired by conscious effort. 
In the athletic world this is well understood, and those who wish 
to excel at any sport place themselves under teachers. The 
boxer is taught how to poise his body and use his arms, the 
cricketer is coached at the nets, the golfer is instructed how to 
use his clubs, the oarsman undergoes a course of strenuous 
teaching. Indeed, professional teachers and trainers belong to 
every form of exercise, and their duty is to expound how the 
maximum result can be attained with least expenditure of 



MOTION STUDY 119 

energy. Up to the present, however, the matter of instructing 
manual workers how to use their muscles so as to earn their 
living with the least possible fatigue has not received enough 
attention. Their employers are content to explain what the 
task to ,be performed is, and then to leave them to carry it out 
as best they can. Any one accustomed to the regime of athletics 
is appalled by these haphazard methods of industry. Industry, 
indeed, has much to learn from athletics. Instances have 
already been given to show that, left to themselves, workers do 
not know how to get their best output by the interposition of 
rest-pauses ; where their movements and actions are concerned, 
the remark is even more apposite. 

An important move, however, in the right direction was 
made some years ago in America by Frederick Taylor, who 
introduced motion study as a part of his system of scientific 
management. Under this system the necessary movements in 
any manual process are carefully analysed and timed, and the 
worker taught how to carry them out. Wonderful results have 
been obtained, but, unfortunately, the system has earned 
unpopularity with the workers. One reason for this is that 
piece-rate prices have been based on these studies, and the 
workers claim that the system has degenerated into a new form 
of slave driving, in which they are compelled to work much 
faster to obtain the same wages. In some instances again (13), 
the " scientific " experts have been venal quacks, mere tools 
of unscrupulous employers. This is not the place to enter 
into the economic rights of the case, which have been fully 
discussed by Hoxie ; but we may point out that the greater 
is the output obtained from any plant, the more can the 
employer afford to pay in wages, because the overhead 
charges are spread over a larger bulk of product ; from this it 
"follows that, within limits, as a worker's output increases he 
should receive a steadily increasing piece rate (10). Once this 
principle is grasped by employers, workers are found ready to 
adopt the system of motion study and to submit to being taught 
how to work. 

Motion study and improved methods of work are only of pro- 
fessional interest to the physician when they eliminate or lessen 
fatigue ; if they only effect a greater production by an equal 
expenditure of energy with a similar degree of fatigue, the result 
medically is no advance (unless better wages enable better food to 
be taken). The physician is interested in the human machine 
being in order, the efficiency engineer in the output of that 
machjne. Improved methods have, however, lessened fatigue 
in many cases, and so they have a medical interest, but in the 



120 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

main they belong rather to the province of the engineer than to 
that of the physician. 

Arrangements for adjusting work to the physique of the 
workers are especially of medical interest. Chairs and tables 
all of the same height do not provide optimum conditions for 
all operatives, some of whom perhaps 5 feet 10 inches in height 
have to sprawl over the table to find room for their arms, while 
others only 5 feet 2 inches have to sit with their feet dangling 
off the floor ; yet neglect in this simple matter is the rule, not 
the exception, in modern factories. Machines such as lathes 
and looms are all constructed on a uniform pattern for tall and 
short alike ; sometimes foot-boards are provided to help the 
short, but the tall are left to bend all day at their tasks. We 
are unaware of any study determining the relation which should 
exist between the height of a worker and the height of, say, a 
lathe chuck. Gilbreth (14) has made an interesting study of 
chajrs, and points out the value of high chairs provided with 
well-sloped backs and foot-rests for doing work which may always 
have been considered standing work, and of chairs with springs 
or other shock absorbers to eliminate vibration from floors 
carrying much high-speed machinery. This study of chairs is 
but an example of the many and varied devices required to 
avoid faulty and tiring postures, concerning which medical 
advice is often invaluable. 

Apart from such necessary adjustments, study of the average 
capacity of workers has led to the suggestion of some useful 
rules. Amar states (15) a few simple results obtained: A 
spade when loaded should weigh 20^ Ibs. This means that a 
spade to be used for shovelling heavy iron ore should have a 
small blade which, when loaded, will carry this burden, and that 
a spade for shovelling light coke should have a blade large in 
proportion. With spades thus graduated to the material to be 
shovelled, a far greater bulk of material can be moved in a given 
time. 

He states that a wheel-barrow should carry a load of 220 Ibs., 
and that the pressure on the handles should be 44 Ibs. And he 
fixes 'the most economical rate of walking along a flat surface 
at 2-8 miles per hour, at which pace, with two minutes' rest 
every mile and a half, twenty-eight to thirty miles can con- 
veniently be covered. If a burden of about 45 Ibs. is being 
carried, the pace should be slowed down to 2-6 miles per hour. 
" But to realise the maximum daily performance, the weight of 
the load should be 99 Ibs., and the rate of progress three miles 
an hour, while the day's work should consist of seven and a 
half hours, with two minutes' rest every 650 yards. An adult 



MOTION STUDY 121 

of twenty-five to forty years can carry this load of 99 Ibs. for an 
average distance of sixteen miles a day. But if the pace is 
increased to 3-4 miles an hour, the distance will be reduced by 
almost one half, no matter how the intervals of rest may be 
arranged." 

Interest here attaches to some similar conclusions arrived at 
in a different way by the Research Committee on mine rescue 
apparatus. The committee, after remarking (29) that " like a 
steamer or an airship, a man has a most economical speed at 
which he goes furthest per litre of oxygen or per pound of food," 
gives for four subjects tested with a load of 43 Ibs. three miles 
per hour as the most economical speed and four miles for two 
other subjects. 

Amar has investigated the process of filing brass with a 
" half-rough " file about 13| inches long. " The body of the 
worker should be vertical, but without rigidity, at a distance 
of about 8 inches from the vice, the latter being at the level of 
the navel ; the position of the feet should be as follows : the 
angle of divergence, 68 ; the distance between the heels, 
10 inches ; the left arm should be completely extended, and 
should press upon the tool rather more heavily than the right 
arm, their respective efforts being 18f and 17^ Ibs. The return 
stroke of the file should consist of a simple sliding movement, 
without pressure. Finally, the rhythm of the movement is 
seventy per minute. All these conditions being fulfilled, five 
minutes' work will be followed by one minute's complete rest, 
the arms falling to the sides. The respirations and the heart 
beats then undergo an average increase of not more than 
25 and 20 per cent, respectively, in comparison with the figures 
obtained during repose. The local fatigue of the right forearm 
is endurable, while the general fatigue is hardly perceptible. 
The maximum output is at least double the ordinary output of 
the great majority of workers. In this particular case 1-32 Ibs. 
of filings were removed per diem, the day consisting of seven 
hours' effective work." Whether Amar's observations were 
extended over a sufficient number of individuals to authorise 
general conclusions is open to doubt. 

Motion study is based on investigations like the above ; but 

, often highly technical analysis is required in order to simplify 

movements and reduce them to a minimum. The objects 

aimed at from the fatigue point of view are stated by Gilbreth 

as follows (14) : 

" (1) To determine what fatigue* is unnecessary. 

* We consider that greater accuracy would be obtained by reading 
"expenditure of energy" in each case for the word " fatigue." 



122 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

" (2) To determine what fatigue* is necessary. 

" (3) To eliminate all unnecessary fatigue* possible. 

" (4) To distribute the necessary fatigue* properly, and to 
provide the best possible means for speedy and complete 
recovery." 

Some examples may be of interest to indicate results obtained 
by this new art, which, however, if it is not to be unduly 
and harmfully exploited, requires to be watched closely by the 
medical profession. Far more attention to the provision of 
adequate statistical controls is also needed. Some published 
work on " scientific management "is very crude. 

The method of bricklaying was studied by Gilbreth, who 
eliminated unnecessary movements and re-arranged the way 
in which the supply of bricks was placed to. hand. A bricklayer 
who had previously been accustomed to lay 120 bricks per 
hour was by this means enabled to lay 350 per hour and, 
notwithstanding, was much less tired. 

The use of shovels graduated, as mentioned above, doubles or 
trebles the performance of the shoveller. Many other instances 
are to be found in the literature on the subject ; for example, 
of production increased from 400 to 1,800 per cent, in machine 
shop work, and of output increased 100 per cent, in the manu- 
facture of cotton goods. Gilbreth also gives (16) the following- 
instances : 

" In folding cotton cloth, twenty to thirty motions were 
reduced to ten or twelve, with the result that instead of one 
hundred and fifty dozen pieces of cloth, four hundred dozen 
were folded, with no added fatigue. The motions of a girl 
putting paper on boxes of shoe polish were studied. Her 
methods were changed only slightly, and where she had been 
doing twenty-four boxes in forty seconds, she did twenty-four 
in twenty seconds, with less effort." 

One particular instance which has been reported upon by 
the Industrial Fatigue Research Board (17) may be referred to. 
During war time the plant of a certain foundry, the buildings 
of which were then somewhat dilapidated and out-of-date, was 
estimated by the Government to be capable of an output of 
3,000 articles per week. The accuracy of the estimate may be 
accepted, since another firm with a larger plant found difficulty 
in maintaining an output of 5,000 articles. The manager, 
however, directed his attention to increasing this estimated 
output by improved methods of work : this he did by : 
" (a) Analysing the various jobs into their elemental units, 

* We consider that greater accuracy would be obtained by reading 
" expenditure of energy " in each case for the word " fatigue." 



MOTION STUDY 123 

studying each individual element with the assistance 
of a stop watch in order to arrive at the best method 
of performing it when all superfluous movements had 
been eliminated. 

" (b) Arranging the tools and materials employed in such a 
standard manner as to avoid unproductive movements. 
" (c) Establishing a standard set of movements for each 
process, together with a standard time for the per- 
formance of each. 
" (d) Combining such movements as could be performed 

simultaneously. 

" When the movements had been finally standardised, a card 
of typewritten instructions was prepared for each job. This 
card contained a list of the standard movements necessary 
for each process, together with the times they should take to 
perform, and it gave such details as whether the right or left 
hand should be used, or both. The elemental times, when added 
up at the foot, gave the total time in which the whole job should 
be completed. This card was placed before each operator 
during the periorf of training." At the same time the hours 
of work were reduced from fifty-four to forty-eight, and an 
improved system of wage payment was introduced. These 
alterations, undoubtedly, co-operated with the improved 
methods in contributing to the result, which was that 20,000 
articles were produced per week. The increase, 'however, is so 
great, even if considerable allowances be made for the effect 
of shorter hours, and of better food arising from higher wages, 
that a substantial margin remains to be attributed to economy 
of effort due to systematic training, and to organisation and 
improved efficiency of material. The workers themselves stated 
they found their work less monotonous and more interesting, 
and that they experienced less or no more fatigue, although 
their output was nearly seven times as great. 

IX. Bibliography. 

' 1. " Industrial Fatigue and its Causes." Health of Munition 
Workers Committee. Memo. No. 7. (Cd. 8213.) 1916. 

2. Fletcher, W. M., and Hopkins, F. G. '' The Respiratory 
Process in Muscle and the Nature of Muscular Construction." 
Croonian Lecture. Proceedings of Royal Society, B, Vol. LXXXIX. 
1917. 

3. Vernon, H. M. " Further Statistical Information concerning 
Output in relation to Hours of Work." Health of Munition Workers 
Committee. Memo. No. 18. (Cd. 8628.) 1917. 

4. Kent, A. F. Stanley. Report on an Investigation of Industrial 
Fatigue by Physiological Methods. (Cd. 8056.) 1915. Second Report 
on an Investigation of Industrial Fatigue. (Cd. 8335.) 1916. 



124 INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND FATIGUE 

5. Loveday, T. . " The Causes and Conditions of Lost Time." 
Health of Munition Workers Committee. Interim Report. (Cd. 8511.) 
1917. 

6. Greenwood, M. "A Report on the Causes of Wastage of 
Labour in Munition Factories." Medical Research Committee. 
Special Report Series, No. 16. 1918. 

7. Agnew, T. H. " Report on the Health and Physical Condition 
of Male Munition Workers." Health of Munition Workers Committee. 
Interim Report. (Cd. 8511.) 1917. 

8. Vernon, H. M. " An Investigation of the Factors Concerned 
in the Causation of Industrial Accidents." Health of Munition 
Workers Committee. Memo. No. 21. (Cd. 9046.) 1918. 

9. Cunningham. Growth of English Industry and Commerce in 
Modern Times. Cambridge. 1892. 

10. " Incentives to Work." Health of Munition Workers Com- 
mittee. Interim Report. (Cd. 8511.) 1917. 

11. Vernon, H. M. " The Influence of Hours of Work and of 
Ventilation on Output in Tinplate Manufacture." Industrial Fatigue 
Research Board. Report No. 1. 1919. 

12. Vernon, H. M. " Fatigue and Efficiency in the Iron and Steel 
Industry." Industrial Fatigue Research Board. Report No. 5. 
1920. 

13. Hoxie, R. F. Scientific Management and Labour. D. Appleton 
& Co. New York. 1915. 

14. Gilbreth, F. B. Fatigue Study. G. Routledge & Sons. 1916. 
'15. Amar, Jules. The Physiology of Industrial Organisation, 

Translated by M. Miall. Library Press, Ltd. 1918. 

16. Gilbreth, F. B. " Motion Study as an Increase of National 
Wealth." Annals of American Academy of Political and Social 
Science. Publication No. 871. Philadelphia. May, 1915. 

17. Myers, C. S. "A Study of Improved Methods in an Iron 
Foundry." Industrial Fatigue Research Board. Report No. 3. 
1919. 

18. Taylor, F. W. Principles of Scientific Management. Harper 
and Brothers. New York. 1911. 

19. Goldmark, Josephine. Fatigue and Efficiency. Charities 
Publication Committee. New York. 1912. 

20. Lee, F. S. The Human Machine. Longmans, Green & Co. 
1918. 

21. Spaeth, R. A. " The Problem of Fatigue." Journal of 
Industrial Hygiene. May, 1919. 

22. Huntingdon, E. World Power and Evolution. (Chapter V.) 
Oxford University Press. 1919. 

23. Myers, C. S. " Industrial Overstrain and Unrest." Lectures 
on Industrial Administration. Sir Lnnr Pi limn & Sons, Ltd. 1920. 

24. Elton, P. M. " A Study of Output in Silk Weaving during 
the Winter." Industrial Fatigue Research Board. Report No. 9. 
(Textile Series, No. 3.) 1920. 

25. Loveday, J. " Preliminary Notes on the Boot and Shoe 
Trade." Industrial Fatigue Research Board. Boot and Shoe Series, 
No. 1. 1920. 

26. Hele-Shaw, H. S. " Endurance of Metals." Proc. Inst.it. 
Mechan. Engineers, p. 895. October, 1911. 

27. Helc-Shaw, H. S. " Travelling at High Speeds." Nature. 
May 4th, 1911. 

28. " Comparison of an Eight-hour Plant and a Ten-hour Plant." 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 125 

c 

Public Health Bulletin, No. 106. Government Printing Office, Wash- 
ington. 1920. 

29. " Second Report of the Mine Rescue Apparatus Research Com- 
mittee." Department of Scientific and Industrial Research. H.M. 
Stationery Office. 1920. 

80. Kennely, A. E. "An Approximate Law of Fatigue in the 
Speeds of Racing Animals." Proc. of Amer. Acad. Arts and Sciences, 
Vol. XLIL, No. 15. December, 1906. 

81. Lovett and Martin. " The Spring Balance Muscle Test." 
Amer. Journ. Orthop. Surg., 14,. p. 415. 1916. 

32. Martin, ,E. G. " Strength Tests in Industry." Public Health 
Reports, Vol. 35, No. 33. Government Printing Office, Washington. 
1920. 

33. Huntington, E. Civilisation and Climate. Yale University 
Press. 1915. 



CHAPTER VI 

TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 

I. Epidemiology : Predisposition and Infection ; Effect of Poverty ; 
Decline of Tuberculosis ; Male and Female Mortality ; Occupation 
and Male Mortality ; Types of Phthisis ; Phthisis and Environment ; , 
Summary. II. Adverse Influences : Ventilation ; Diet ; Eugenic 
Aspect. III. Prevention, Detection and Treatment in relation 
to Industry : Prevention ; Detection ; Industrial Treatment ; 
Spittoons. IV. Bibliography. 

I. Epidemiology. 

TUBERCULOSIS, or at least its pulmonary form, is a disease 
which has been familiar in all ages and to all civilised peoples ; 
records of it exist which were made in the time of the Assyrian 
Empire ; all the Graeco-Roman authors speak of it and hardly a 
mediaeval or modern physician whose works have survived failed 
to give a clinical account of pulmonary consumption. 

Predisposition and Infection. Although the possibility that 
consumption was an infectious disease had been discussed in 
more or less detail by such men as Aristotle, Galen, * Avicenna, 
Lommius, Morton and Morgagni, and fully examined by Thomas 
Young 100 years ago, the general trend of opinion before the 
days of Villemin, William Budd and Koch was to the effect that 
an inherited disposition, predisposition or diathesis (these terms 
as one of us has pointed out (1), are not synonymous) played the 
chief roles in the production of phthisis. After the unequivocal 
demonstration of the infective element by Villemin and Koch, 
opinion veered round completely, and in our own generation 
the hygienic problem of tuberculosis has . been largely regarded 
as one of diminishing the opportunities for transferring the 
tubercle bacillus from man to man or from domestic animals to 
man. Although the practical measures inspired by the two 
theories were not necessarily or usually different, some change 
of emphasis has resulted. It was as fully accepted fifty years 
ago as it is now that tuberculosis was a pestis pauperum. 
But in pre-bacterial days the explanation was that the unfavour- 
able environment of the poor, acting upon a population contain- 
ing a relatively high percentage of physically inferior stocks, led 
to the manifestation of the innate physical vices of the con- 

* The doctrine of contagion in ancient medicine was, however, essentially 
different from that entertained in modern times after the days of 
Fracastorius. 



EFFECT OF POVERTY 127 

stitution, and gave the predisposition its chance. It was 
thought that the only policy to pursue was to improve the 
general social and sanitary conditions qf the working classes, 
thereby to improve their general powers of resistance. In 
our time more attention has been devoted to attacking in 
detail particular evils associated with poverty, as, for instance, 
the purification of urban milk supplies or the segregation 
of " open " (i.e., actively infective) cases of phthisis in sana- 
toria, or again by the disinfection of the consumptive's 
discharges. 

To crystallise tendencies into epigrams is always to over- 
state the antithesis, but we shall perhaps help the reader to 
grasp the distinction if we say our grandfathers believed that 
in the case of consumption what was the matter with the poor 
was poverty, and that consumption would not be eliminated 
without the eradication of poverty ; since they did not believe 
that poverty could be eradicated, they did not expect to " stamp 
out " consumption. The latter-day view is less pessimistic (or, 
if we look at it from another point of view, more pessimistic) and 
suggests that consumption might be eliminated without any 
obliteration of*the distinction between class and class. 

From the point of view of the present work we have to try 
to ascertain which tendency of thought is in the true direction, 
and the problem we formulate for discussion in this chapter is 
whether the conditions of industry have any special effect in 
increasing or diminishing the toll taken by tuberculosis of 
human life. An attempt to answer this question will, how- 
ever, involve a general examination of the epidemiological 
problems presented by the group of diseases due to the tubercle 
bacillus. 

Effect of Poverty. We said above that tuberculosis was always 
held to be a pestis pauperum ; this statement must now be 
justified. 

Two criteria may be appealed to : type of domicile, and 
occupational status. 

The size of the house may be taken as a fair estimate of the 
poverty or affluence of the -occupants ; but, in instituting a 
comparison between the mortality from tuberculosis among the 
occupants, we are aware that poverty in this case may be held 
to stand for imperfect hygiene, general and personal, and also 
for overcrowding. The figures here quoted (10) clearly show 
on this test that a close relation exists between poverty and the 
disease ; and they may also be claimed in support of the view 
(to which we shall refer again later) that the home exerts a 
powerful influence in its dissemination. 



128 



TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 



-' 


Death rate per 100,000 from tuberculosis. 


Type of dwelling. 


Greenock 


Glasgow 


Edinburgh 




(1913). 


(1913). 


(1910 12). 


Four or more rooms 


87 


70 


56 


Three rooms . 


106 


120 111 


Two rooms . 


179 


180 


146 


One room 


222 


240 


225 



Occupational status provides further evidence. If we contrast 
the experience of the clergy on the one hand with that of general 
labourers (1900-2) we find that, although from nearly all causes 
of death, the latter died at a greater rate than the former, the 
contrast reaches an extreme in the matter of phthisis. The 
mortality of general labourers from cancer was 231 per cent, 
that of the clergy ; from all causes other than cancer and phthisis 
it was 344 per cent. ; but from phthisis no less than 849 per cent. 
In London metropolitan boroughs, while the death rate from 
phthisis varies with differentiae of poverty (such as the propor- 
tion of general labourers, or the proportion of pawnbrokers), the 
correlation between the (corrected) cancer rate and measures of 
poverty is not pronounced. Although the work of Maynard (2) 
and of Brown and Lai (3) suggests that there is a correlation 
between the incidence of cancer and lack of social well being, it 
is not very large ; but the comparison for phthisis mortality 
between clergy and general labourers which we have made is 
representative of the general statistical relations observed in 
most kinds of data, e.g., the death rate from phthisis (1909 12) 
was 1'86 in the poor district of Shoreditch, and 0'57 in more 
prosperous Hampstead. Hence the close relation between a high 
death rate from tuberculosis and poverty may be deemed to be 
established. 

Decline of Tuberculosis. We shall now consider the course of 
tuberculosis mortality in England and Wales as a whole. In 
the past fifty years the rate of mortality in all areas has declined ; 
taking the age standardised death rate of males 1851 60 for 
pulmonary tuberculosis phthisis as 100, we have the results 
shown in Table 1. The decline has been substantial in both 
sexes, but greater for women than for men ; in 1851 60 the 
female death rate from pulmonary tuberculosis was 106 per 
cent, of the male rate ; in 1901 10 it was 70 per cent, of the 
corresponding male rate. In the next table we give the death 
rates per million living at certain age groups of males and 



PHTHISIS MORTALITY BY SEX 



12!) 



TABLE 1. Comparative Phthisis Mortality of England 
and Wales since 1851. 





Males. 


Females. 


185160 . 


100 


lt)6 


186170 . 


97 


96 


187180 . 


88 


79 


188190 . . ' 


73 


62 


18911900 


61 


46 


190110 . 


50 


35 



TABLE 2. Death Rates per Million. Phthisis. 



Age periods. 



uroup. 


15-20. 


20-25. 


25-35. 


35-45. 


45-55. 


55-65. 


65 and 
over. 


/Urban, 18911900 


1,010 


1,815 


2,448 


3,581 


3,798 


3,150 


1,907 


TWoioa I Rural, 18911900 


1,039 


2,195 


2,269 


2,248 


2,116 


1,995 


1,349 


1 Urban, 19011910 


764 


1,433 


1,959 


2,751 


,3,330 


2,915 


1,895 


1 Rural, 1901 1910 


755 


1,796 


2,049 


1,907 


1,839 


1,656 


1,174 


/Urban, 18911900 


1,233 


1,500 


1,925 


2,331 


1,799 


1,313 


852 


Remain- ' Rural. 18911900 


1,557 


1,967 


2,108 


1,849 


1,409 


1,155 


826 


1 Urban, 19011910 


948 


1,161 


1,448 


1,666 


1,465 


1,148 


799 


( Rural, 19011910 


1,182 


1,585 


1,681 


1,383 


1,078 


964 


754 



TABLE 3. Urban Mortality as Percentage of Rural Mortality. 

Phthisis. 



Age periods. 



vjroup. 


15-20. 


20-25. 


25-35 


35-45 


45-55. 


55-65. 


.65 & 
over. 


(18911900 . 
(19011910 . 


97 
101 


83 

80 


108 
96 


159 
144 


179 
181 


158 
176 


141 
161 


ft {iSizJSS : 


79 
^80 


76 
73 


91 

86 


126 
121 


128 
136 


114 
119 


103 
106 



females in successive decennia recorded by the Registrar-General, 
contrasting groups of urban and rural counties. In Table 3 
these are expressed as ratios. A noteworthy point is the greater 
death rate of women in the rural counties at the earlier ages. 
This has usually been explained by supposing that the migration 
to towns of healthy young women and the departure from the 
cities of phthisics have favoured the urban death rates. The 
decennial abstracts do not transfer deaths of non-residents from 



130 



TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 



one registration area to another ; but this has been done in the 
Registrar-General's annual reports since 1911. After this 
correction we find that although the rural death rate at fifteen 
to twenty (females) is less than the urban rate, in the three 
following quinquennial age groups the urban rate remains lower 
than the rural rate (Table 4). This transfer of deaths from the 

TABLE 4. Phthisis Death Rates per Million, 1911. Females. 



Age. 


Rural 
districts. 


All urban 
districts. 


1520 


972 


1,031 


2025 


1,273 


1,227 


2530 


1,480 


1,316 


3035 


1,463 


1,344 



area in which they were registered to that of the home of the 
deceased possibly corrects one of the assumed errors ; but the 
other, the migration to towns of healthy young women in search 
of employment, remains. This could only be effectively cor- 
rected by an elaborate process for which data are not available ; 
but by the following considerations we may perhaps reach some 
approximate measure of its importance. In the enumerated 
population of England and Wales (1911) the ratio of women 
aged twenty to twenty-five to females under five was 0-872 ; 
of women aged twenty-five to thirty, 0-846 ; and of women 
aged thirty to thirty-five, 0-783. If we multiply the number of 
female children under five enumerated in the rural districts by 
these fractions we shall obtain the numbers of women in each 
age group who would be living in the rural districts if the ratio 
observed in the general female population were maintained. 
The numbers actually enumerated fell short by 47,783, 40,101 
and 30,299 respectively of the computed numbers. If we sup- 
pose that these deficits represent the numbers of women who 
had passed from the rural to the town districts, and further 
suppose that their death fate from phthisis was negligibly 
small all being by hypothesis selected lives the deaths 
recorded in the urban districts (including London and the 
county boroughs) divided not by the enumerated population, 
but by the enumerated population less the conjectured number 
of migrants, will give the true urban death rate ; while the 
sum of deaths in rural districts divided by the enumerated 
population plus the migrants will give the true rural death rate. 
This calculation gives for ages twenty to twenty-five, 1,275 per 



PHTHISIS MORTALITY BY DISTRICT 



181 



million for urban, and 1,106 for rural districts ; for ages twenty- 
five to thirty, the figures are 1,361 and 1,311 ; and for ages 
thirty to thirty-five, 1,383 and 1,327 respectively. The result 
tends to support the doctrine that the favourable rates at early 
ages in towns are really due to migration ; but the method is 
very rough, and the point deserves a more detailed examination. 

No such simple explanation will account for the more rapid 
decline of female phthisis mortality in the whole country in 
comparison with that of males. It is conceivable that the 
decline in birth rate has been a factor, in view of the unfavourable 
effect of childbirth upon the prognosis of phthisis ; but female 
mortality was already declining faster than that of males in the 
decennium prior to that in which the decline of the birth rate 
began to be of serious import. 

Male and Female Mortality. Returning to Table 2, it will be 
noticed that from age thirty-five onwards, although the female 
mortality in the urban counties is considerably higher than in 
rural counties, the discrepancy between the urban and rural 

TABLE 5. Phthisis Mortality, 1911. Ages Thirty-five and Over. 







Males. 






Females. 




Age. 


Rural 
districts. 


All 
urban 
districts. 


Ratio. 


Rural 
districts. 


All 
urban 
districts. 


Ratio. 


3540 


1,361 


2,256 


166 


1,201 


,490 


124 


4045 


1,328 


2,469 


186 


975 


,423 


146 


4550 


1,300 


2,498 


192 


832 


.310 


157 


5055 


1,163 


2,787 


240 


817 


,070 


131 


5560 


1,293 


2.539 


196 


706 


,029 


146 


6065 


1,144 


2,440 


213 


862 


988 


115 



Sex Ratios for Urban and Rural Districts. 



Age. 


Rural 
districts. 


Urban 
districts. 


3540 


113 


151 


4045 


136 


174 


4550 


156 


191 


5055 


142 


260 


5560 


183 


247 


6065 


133 


247 



132 TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 

male rates is much greater, amounting to no less than 80 per 
cent, excess in the age group forty-five to fifty-five. The same 
result is brought out in Table 5, which embodies the shorter 
series of more exact figures relating to the year 1911. 

In these later age groups the factor' of migration is of much 
less moment than at earlier ages, and to explain the facts we are 
led to choose between the following hypotheses : 

(a) The heavier incidence upon males is a direct consequence 
of urban industrial employment ; (b) home environment reacts 
more unfavourably upon males than upon females ; (c) the 
physical selection of urban females is more stringent than that 
of males. 

With respect to the third hypothesis, we have only to remark 
that there is no evidence at all that the struggle for existence 
is less keen or the physical criteria of survival less exacting 
among men than among women ; young male adults are 
not subject to a lower death rate from all causes than are 
females. 

Passing now to the other two direct environmental factors, 
(a) and (b), we have to examine the evidence that tuberculosis 
does affect with especial severity those engaged in occupations 
associated characteristically with urban life. 

Assuming that this were the true explanation, the Great War 
led to a control experiment upon a large scale, because a vastly 
greater proportion of the female population than usual was sud- 
denly plunged into factory life ; if, then, industrialisation were a 
serious epidemiological factor we should expect, since the war, 
women in this country would die of tuberculosis at a higher 
rate than immediately before it. This actually happened and 
was noted by Dr. Stevenson in his official review of the statistics 
of 1916 ; he pointed out that the increase (of the order of 5 per 
cent.) did not affect the women over forty-five, and might, 
therefore, be connected with munition factory work. In this 
country we have no statistical data of the incidence of tubercu- 
losis upon women employed in industry ; but such rates are 
available for the women of Leipzig, and, since it has been found 
by one of us (4) that the Leipzig rates for males corresponded 
very closely with those of similarly employed English males, 
the probability is that the rates for females correspond equally 
closely. Now the distributions of women in industries just 
before the war and at the end of 1916 were known with some 
exactness. For instance, in July, 1914, about 170,000 women 
were engaged in the metal industries ; in January, 1917, the 
number was 443,000 ; the numbers employed in chemical 
industries doubled in the same period ; those employed in 



WAR-TIME EMPLOYMENT 133 

commerce increased 50 per cent., and so forth. Hence, to form 
a statistical appreciation of the magnitude of the industrial 
factor, we could proceed as follows : Apply to the industrial 
groupings in 1914 and 1916 the Leipzig occupational death rates 
from tuberculosis and see how far the calculated numbers agree 
with the observations. The female tuberculosis death rate of 
Leipzig was 4-04 per 1,000 per annum in the metal industries, 3-13 
in chemical industries, and 2-80 in textiles, as contrasted with 
0-97 for domestic servants, etc. (mainly women fifteen to thirty- 
five) ; so that substantial transfers would increase the mortality. 
In the result we reached the conclusion that there should by 
calculation be 22,446 deaths in 1914, and 23,986 in 1916, an 
increase of 1,540 ; the recorded numbers were 22,214 and 
24,131, an increase of 1,917 ; the agreement is reasonably good, 
although the actual increase was larger than predicted. A 
further confirmation was afforded by a study of the proportion 
deaths due to pulmonary tuberculosis bore to all deaths in the 
great industrial centres since the war. It was found that this pro- 
portion had increased from under 35 per cent, to over 42 per cent, 
between 1913 and 1916 in the group of large towns (Birmingham, 
Coventry, Manchester, Newcastle and Sheffield) much affected 
by war influx of workers ; it had increased less characteristically 
in towns less affected by war industries, such as Ipswich, Norwich, 
Stoke-on-Trent, York and Worcester ; but it had not increased 
at all or even fallen in non-industrial towns like Bournemouth, 
Brighton, Oxford, and Great Yarmouth. This result is, of 
course, not decisive, because an increase in the proportion of 
deaths from a disease might be found although the absolute 
number of deaths declined, but this is unusual. Like all Nature's 
economic experiments, this of wartime was not planned on 
precisely the lines we desired, yet it does generally support the 
inference that industrial employment is a factor in the production 
of tuberculosis. During the period considered no other relevant 
new factors were introduced ; the country was well fed, and there 
was not among women any withdrawal of the healthy persons 
from the ambit of our civilian statistical records (which occurred 
in men, and, of course, rendered the wartime male rates of death 
from tuberculosis quite useless for any general epidemiological 
purpose). The one great factor which might have played a 
part was industrial employment itself inseparably connected 
with aggregation in urban districts. 

The conclusion here suggested, that increased industrialisation 
has been the main factor determining the increased prevalence of 
phthisis among women which occurred during the war period, 
receives some confirmation from the data for the year 1919. 



134 



TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 



TABLE 5A. Comparative Mortality from Phthisis 
among Women. 





Age period. 


v 


. 




1520. 


2025. 


2535. 


3545. 


1913 . 


100 


100 


100 


100 


1917 . 


150 


131 


113 


114 


1919 . 


130 


120 


103 


94 



The phthisis mortality experienced among women in the 
United Kingdom at different age periods in 1913 is, for compara- 
tive purposes, stated above as 100. The data for 1917 illustrate 
how the phthisis rate rose ; while the data for 1919 show how a 
swing back took place as women came out from industry. This 
swing has actually carried the mortality below the 1913 standard 
for the older women, who naturally were the first to resume 
normal life, while the swing is less at younger ages, where the 
proportion of women still remaining in factories was consider- 
able, and there are still probably more women in industrial 
employment than before the war. 

Occupation and Male Mortality. We shall now consider the 
occupational incidence of tuberculosis upon males, the problem 
being to learn whether there are any industries particularly 
associated with urban life which are unduly subject to 
tuberculosis. 

This question has been investigated upon the following lines. 
We used the occupational mortality records compiled decen- 
nially by the Registrar-General and a similar set of data prepared 
in Holland, eliminating occupations to which a direct occupa- 
tional risk attaches, viz., those forms of mining, quarry and 
metal work in which injury inflicted upon the pulmonary tissues 
by silica particles is known to enhance the tubercul sis death 
rate. The residue of occupations was then analysed and the 
death rate from tuberculosis correlated with that from all other 
causes. The equation connecting the death rate from other 
causes with that from tuberculosis was then computed, and 
those occupations noted which experienced a death rate from 
tuberculosis or from pulmonary tuberculosis at least 25 per cent, 
greater than predicted from a knowledge of the death rate due 
to other causes. The reason for this proceeding was that we 
wished to find trades specially liable in se, not trades the 
followers of which were generally unhealthy, perhaps owing to 



OCCUPATIONAL MORTALITY 



1J35 



sonic negative selection (such as might happen if bad wages 
bring together only the failures of other occupations, a factor 
which, no doubt, explains the high mortality of "general 
labourers "). In this way, bookbinders, printers, tailors and 
cabinetmakers emerged as on the black list of all the data 
(three English decennial returns and one Dutch record) used 
(see Table 6). Hosiery makers and shoemakers also in the 

TABLE 6. Comparative Mortality Figures, 1890-2 and 1900-2 ; 
Phthisis, 1910 12. All Forms of Tuberculosis. 



Occupation. 


1890-2. 


1900-2. 


191012. 


Clergy 


100 


100 


100 


Agricultural labourers 


175 


155 


156 


Coal miners .... 


147 


160 


163 


Bricklayers, etc. 


338 


355 


273 


Saddlers, etc. 


358 


402 


323 


Commercial clerks 


327 


360 


356 


Cotton manufacturers. 


303 


362 


256 


Wool and worsted manufacturers. 


287 


296 


262 


Silk manufacturers 


294 


375 


273 


Hosiery manufacturers 


286 


398 


377 


Lace manufacturers 


242 


345 


325 


Carpet manufacturers. 


342 


315 


246 


Tinplate goods manufacturers 


327 


394 


263 


Paper manufacturers . 


217 


262 


210 


Cabinetmakers . 


373 


409 


412 


Shoemakers .... 


386 


483 


456 


Tailors 


408 


445 


383 


Printers ..... 


491 


547 


421 


Bookbinders 


490 


515 


427 



English, but not the Dutch, experience, were unduly subject 
to tuberculosis. But these occupations are pre-eminently 
associated with the great urban aggregations of mankind, so 
that qualitatively the result reached is in good agreement with 
our geographical findings. We now come to a subtle point in 
the epidemiology. Assuming it to be proved that the higher 
incidence of male tuberculosis amongst town dwellers is due to 
industrial employment, is the effect a direct or an indirect one ? 
It being certain that men employed in a printing works, say, 
suffer from tuberculosis at a higher rate than, say, agricultural 
labourers, is this because they are more likely to be infected in 
the indoor association enforced by their employment, and if so, 
do they infect their families ? Or is it that the circumstances 
of the work make them more readily susceptible to deleterious, 
influences in the home environment ? 



136 



TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 



To test the point so far as it could be tested, Miss C. M. 
Thompson, working with one of us, has made a careful study of 
the inter-relations of the death rate from tuberculosis, the 
death rate from all other causes, the percentage of the popula- 
tion housed more than two to a room, and the proportions in 
age groups employed in factory industries in the twenty-eight 
metropolitan boroughs. If we accept the proportion more than 
two to a room as a fairly good measure of home conditions 
which it probably is in the London boroughs the proportion 
industrially employed as a criterion of the amount of factory 
work (the occupations taken out were those in which little 
home employment exists), and if we regard the death rate 
from other causes as some measure of general physique, the net, 
or in technical language, partial correlations of highest order, 
between the variables should tell us something about the 
respective importance of the different variables in the two sexes. 

TABLE 7. Co-efficients of Partial Correlation for each Pair of the 
Four Variables shown, the Remaining Two being made 
Constant. Data Twenty-eight London Boroughs, Years 
191113. 



Variables. 


Ages. 


1525. 2545. 


4565. 




Males. 


Females. , Males. Females. 


Males. 


Females. 


Tuberculosis ) 






j 






and 


-48 -10 


-38-ll 


+ 71 -06 +-05 -13 


+ 46 -10 


+ 60+ -08 


overcrowding ) 












Tuberculosis } 












and 


+ 21 -12 


+ 31 -12 


+ -15-12 +-74 -06 


+ 19 -12 


+ 50 -10 


other diseases j 












Tuberculosis ) 












and factory 


+ 56 -09 


+ 48 -10 


+ 25 -12 +-19 -12 


+ 19 -12 


-40 -11 


employment ) 






i 







Taking first the overcrowding index. At ages fifteen to 
twenty-five this is negatively correlated with the tuberculosis 
death rate for both sexes, and is not significantly different in 
the two sexes. At ages twenty-five to forty-five the correlation 
becomes large and positive for males, but it is insignificant for 
women. At ages forty-five to sixty-five the correlation for 
males is still large, although smaller than for the previous 
group, and is also large for women. The deduction follows 
that at ages between twenty-five and forty-five the home 
environment factor is more important for males than for 
females. 

The industrial factor is positively correlated with the death 



INFLUENCE OF FACTORY LIFE 137 

rate from tuberculosis at all ages, save that of women forty-five 
to sixty-five, and continuously decreases with age, being largest 
for the young adults and adolescents. The correlation with 
deaths from other diseases is positive at all ages, but much 
larger for women than for men in the age group twenty-five to 
forty-five, and also at forty-five to sixty-five. The apparent 
meaning of these coefficients is of so much epidemiological 
importance that they will need most careful testing upon larger 
collections of data, and our inferences are plainly subject to 
modification when knowledge is less fragmentary. That in the 
earliest age group there is actually an inverse relation between 
tuberculosis and overcrowding, which latter is a measure of 
bad home conditions, may reflect the circumstance that in the 
casual trades the most prosperous period is that of early man- 
hood prior to marriage ; at that age the blind alley trades often 
provide a better wage than is earned by apprentices to skilled 
trades. Of the relation between tuberculosis and underfeeding, 
the recently published statistics of Prussia, showing an increase 
oT deaths from 56,861 in 1913 to 86,217 in 1917, are an impressive 
example. Again, the death rate from phthisis in the Registrar- 
General's occupational group of messengers and porters is below 
the average at the earliest age tabulated, although above the 
average subsequently. This group covers much " blind alley " 
work. 

In adult life twenty-five to forty-five, the greater effect of 
overcrowding upon the male than upon the female suggests 
that the influence of factory life is an indirect one. In London, 
the proportion of males employed in factories is much greater 
than that of women. In London, percentages in factories 

are : 

Men. Women. 

1525 ... 18 16-1 

2545 . . .18 7-1 

45_65 .. . .18 10-1 

The suggestion is that the conditions of factory life render the 
male especially susceptible to unfavourable home conditions. 
The women, exposed nearly the whole time to the home condi- 
tions, do not respond so delicately to it ; the chief cause of 
variation amongst them is their natural physique, hence the 
high correlation between the death rate from other causes and 
that from tuberculosis for women. This statistical surmise is 
borne out by the field-investigation of Tebb in Birmingham (4). 
He found that no specific source of tubercular infection could 
be traced in any munition factories, good or bad ; but the 
employees in the unhygienic factories did suffer much more 



188 TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 

from tuberculosis than those employed at good modern fac- 
tories. The inference is that the factories act as sensitisers, 
making the operative particularly susceptible to home condi- 
tions ; the epidemiological importance of the factory is indirect, 
that of the home direct. This finding is in agreement with the 
view expressed by Thomson (10), who, drawing his con- 
clusion from different data, is emphatic that tuberculosis " is 
the morbid expression of unhealthy home conditions." 

We provisionally answer the epidemiological question posed 
as to the relation between industrial employment and deaths 
from tuberculosis in the following terms : The role of the factory 
is, by confinement in monotonously ventilated rooms and by causing 
general fatigue, to reduce the resistance of the operative to those 
sources of infection to which he is exposed in the natural course of 
life, to make him react more sharply to home influences than does 
his wife or sister. The physiological basis of this lowered resis- 
tance has been explored by Dr. Leonard Hill in his recent investi- 
gations (5). Dr. Hill has shown that there is a considerable 
correlation between variations, not only of the sense of well- 
being, but of actual prevalence of sickness, and of the degree 
of stagnation of the air, and that stagnation of the air is revealed 
badly, if at all, by the time-honoured thermometer and hygro- 
meter, but made patent by Hill's instrument, the katather- 
mometer, which measures the rate of cooling of the air. Much 
is to be expected, not only from improvement of the dwellings 
of the working classes, but also from rational attention to the 
ventilation of workplaces ; the fetish of a low CO 2 content 
must be replaced by the sound doctrine long enough known 
instinctively to the people that moving air, not a draught 
but a breeze, is health -giving. 

Types of Phthisis. So far we have discussed the epidemiology 
of tuberculosis as if it were necessarily one and the same disease 
everywhere. Naturally, one should distinguish between pul- 
monary tuberculosis and other clinical forms, and we have 
done so in some collections of data, but not always, because 
at the adult ages of life pulmonary tuberculosis is the pre- 
dominating form ; of the deaths assigned to tuberculosis in the 
decennium 1901 10 in persons between twenty and sixty-five, 
90-9 per cent, were due to pulmonary tuberculosis and (unde- 
fined) phthisis. But it is a pure assumption to say that all these 
clinically similar causes of death are epidemiologically identical. 
We are dealing with death records, and there are numerous 
instances of diseases, e.g., the typhoid group and the malaria 
group, which are clinically similar, and may even have a common 
bacteriological origin, but which none the less are epidemic- 



TYPES OF PHTHISIS 139 

logically different. Plague is a case in point. Persons dead of 
pneumonic plague may belong to two different epidemiological 
categories. In an epidemic of bubonic plague the epidemio- 
logical features of which are non-transmission from human 
being to human being and maximum prevalence in moderately 
warm weather deaths from a secondary pneumonia occur, and 
the exudate teems with plague 'bacilli. But another epidemio- 
logical type, that of primary pneumonic plague, is known ; here 
the disease prevails in cold weather and is probably, or cer- 
tainly, transmitted from person to person. This is a rarer form, 
of which, however, the great Manchurian epidemic a few years 
ago provides a recent example. If we were furnished with 
statistics of plague deaths in a country subject to both epidemio- 
logical forms we might draw very erroneous conclusions from 
an analysis of the combined data. The question is, whether a 
form of this error has to be reckoned with in discussing pul- 
monary tuberculosis from the epidemiological side. Sub- 
divisions of the clinical types of pulmonary tuberculosis were 
effected years ago, and we most of us learn about them in our 
hospital courses the galloping or florid consumption, the 
ordinary chronic phthisis, and the long-drawn-out fibroid 
phthisis. But, so far as we know, Dr. John Brownlee was the 
first epidemiologist to attempt statistical analysis of phthisis 
into different forms (6). Brownlee's starting point was the 
great difference in shape of the curves of death rates at different 
ages in different parts of the country. For instance, in the 
Shetland Islands the death rate is at a maximum (5-85 per 
1,000 living per annum) at the age twenty to twenty-five ; in 
London the maximum, 5-47, is at the age group forty-five to 
fifty-five. Brownlee did not think that such great differences 
in the form of the death rate curves were due to migration, 
occupation or natural selection, and he attempted to explain 
them upon the hypothesis that pulmonary phthisis sans phrase 
is a mixture of three epidemiological types : 

(1) A type of phthisis which chiefly affects young adults, 

the commonest age of death being between twenty and 
twenty-five. 

(2) A type of phthisis which chiefly affects persons of middle 

age, the commonest age of death being between forty-five 
and fifty-five. 

(3) A type of phthisis which chiefly attacks persons in old 

age and most frequently causes death between fifty-five 
and sixty-five years. 

Brownlee's first test of his hypothesis was an attempt to 
graduate the death rate curves for various parts of England 



140 TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 

upon the assumption that they were compounded of three 
elementary types, the death rate at any age being aY + bA -f- cO, 
where F, A and O are the death rates at that age of the three 
pure types, and the small letters are constants to be determined. 
As it could not be expected that any one of these types existed 
pure anywhere, it was necessary to proceed by a method of 
approximation. Starting with the phthisis death rates of 
Ireland, of London and of coal miners as predominatingly 
appertaining to the three hypothetical types, Brownlee was 
ultimately able to approximate to the hypothetical types, and to 
graduate with success the composite death rate curves of 
different parts of England and Wales. 

Phthisis and Environment. We now come to an extremely 
important point. Brownlee correlated the death rate from 
phthisis with the death rate from other causes, and it proved to 
be -178 at twenty to twenty-five (males), -390 at thirty-five to 
forty-five, -272 at fifty-five to sixty-five (averages of ten districts 
or periods), while the value of the co-efficients varied with the 
proportion of the total di tributiori attributable to middle-age 
phthisis, being large when that was large, and vice versa. If then 
the death rate from other, causes is taken as a measure of general 
unhealthiness, or, again, the general standardised death rate 
(which gave similar correlations), the middle-age type is more 
susceptible to environment than the others, and the fact that 
this is the predominant type in London, Lancashire and the 
great industrial districts explains why in these the phthisis rate 
becomes excessive in the later adult ages ; in these districts 
that, type most responsive to environment prevails.* There 
is a vicious circle. ' We need hardly remark that Brownlee's 
conception is of great importance and, if true, would explain 
more than one difficulty. For instance, take the variety of 
opinions held as to the clinical value of tuberculin. Nobody is 
surprised that a typhoid vaccine does not protect against para- 
typhoid, and it would on Brownlee's hypothesis be equally 
unreasonable to expect a tuberculin derived from the middle- 
age type to protect against the young adult form of pulmonary 
tuberculosis. In Glasgow, for instance, the middle-age type is 
unusual. In London it is common and predominant ; if vaccines 
are usually made from the latter type they would give less 
satisfactory results in Glasgow than in London. 

It must, however, be admitted that the evidence so far 
published by Brownlee, while consistent with the truth of his 
hypothesis, docs not suffice to establish it. The test of effective 

* It may also explain why the method of p. 136 applied to a heterogeneous 
collection of county boroughs leads to discrepant results. 



SUMMARY 141 

graduation, although necessary, is not sufficient. It is a common 
enough experience in statistical practice to find that a set of 
data can be effectively graduated by mathematical formulae 
the bases of which are altogether disparate. 

Before a hypothetical law can be accepted as the correct 
description of statistical phenomena we must first show that 
the law will adequately graduate the observations which were 
the starting point of the inquiry, but we cannot rest there. It is 
necessary to proceed inductively and to show upon a wide col- 
lection of examples that the graduation by the proposed law 
is definitely more effective than graduation by other formulae. 
It is no reproach to Brownlee that this condition has not yet 
been fulfilled by him ; he has, at least, used all the data at 
present available. 

The deductions from- the. co-efficients of correlation are also 
open to criticism.* It is perhaps doubtful whether either the 
standardised death rate or the death rate from causes other than 
tuberculosis at the same age is a really effective measure of 
environment ; it might with at least equal plausibility, perhaps 
with greater plausibility, be asserted that the residual death rate 
is a measure of individual resisting power, of natural physique. 
In any event the various measures used, crude death rate, death 
rate from causes other than tuberculosis, standardised death 
rate, are not independent one of another, so that the series of co- 
efficients does not really represent a like number of independent 
measurements jof the phenomenon under study. Brownlee has 
perhaps rather slighted the probable effect of industrial employ- 
ment. While recognising that the parallelism of the death 
rate curves of both sexes makes in favour of his contention,, we 
still have to reckon with the much greater incidence upon urban 
males in contrast with the urban females (see Table 5) ; it is 
difficult to avoid the conclusion that this is really a function of 
industrial employment, whether direct or, as suggested by the 
investigation detailed above, implicit. 

Summary. We may now sum up the results of our epidemio- 
logical inquiry, not because these results are clear cut and 
decisive, but to help the reader to distinguish between the partly 
solved and the wholly unsolved problems. , 

Looking at the country as a whole and the changes which 
have taken place during the last fifty years, a period in which 
steadily increasing industrialisation and its associated effect of 
aggregation within urban areas has been accompanied with 

* It is proper to add that our own vise of co-efficients of correlation is 
open to criticism, inasmuch as only three years' data were available, toe 
short an experience for final deductions. 



142 TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 

improvements of general sanitation, we find that the death toll 
of tuberculosis has diminished in both sexes, but has diminished 
faster among women than amongst men. When we make 
synchronous comparisons of urban and rural districts whether 
the mass comparison of counties mainly urban with counties 
mainly rural without correction for deaths of non-residents, or 
the more detailed comparison possible after 1911 we find that 
with advancing age the disadvantage of the town dwellers 
increases, and that the apparent advantage of young female city 
inhabitants can be accounted for more or less completely by 
immigration from the country of healthy females. At ages over 
thirty-five in both sexes the town dwellers die from phthisis at 
a much greater rate than the denizens of rural districts, but the 
excess is far greater amongst males than amongst females. This 
excess is most at the age periods of life at which the largest pro- 
portion of urban males are industrially employed and the 
smallest proportion of urban females the age of married life. 
Hence we surmise that industrial employment is a great factor 
in producing the difference. In support of this we find that in 
great industries, such as printing and shoemaking, necessarily 
associated with urbanisation, the death rate from phthisis is 
extremely high, higher than is to be expected from the death rate 
due to other causes sustained by the members of the trade, and 
therefore can hardly be attributed to a generally low standard of 
physique attained by them (see diagrams, p. 178). Whether the 
deleterious influence of industry is direct and a result of factory- 
produced infection, or indirect, has been investigated by com- 
paring the correlation between tuberculosis rates and indices of 
employment and of home environment in the two sexes for the 
metropolis. The result has been to show that during the period 
-of life when male industrial employment is at or near a 
maximum and female industrial employment at an absolute 
minimum, the period in which the greatest proportion of living 
persons are married, the index of bad home conditions varies 
closely with the male death rate from tuberculosis. From this 
the inference is drawn that the deleterious influence of factory 
life acts through the home environment. The males, whose 
, vitality is lowered by factory conditions, become more suscep- 
tible to evils associated with the home itself ; amongst women 
the factor of varying home conditions is less directly associated 
with variation of the tuberculosis death rate, which in them 
seems most closely correlated with the death rate from other 
causes than tuberculosis. Lastly, there is reason to believe 
that a full epidemiological analysis may involve the separa- 
tion of .the clinical entity phthisis into three types characterised 



INFLUENCE OF VENTILATION 143 

by differences of age susceptibility, and, perhaps, differences 
in responsiveness to good or bad environmental conditions. 
Both the inferences as to the differential effect of home con- 
ditions and the epidemiological subdivision of phthisis are not 
yet to be accepted as proven ; much more statistical work 
is needed thoroughly to test them. 

In the light of what we do know, or. more or less shrewdly 
guess, as to the essential epidemiology of phthisis, what are the 
practical measures to be taken to mitigate its ravages ? Upon 
balance it appears that the general belief of our fathers and grand- 
fathers is sound, and the policy which ought to have been, and to 
some extent was, inspired by that belief is a sound policy. What 
is the matter with the poor is largely poverty. Not through any 
special intensive measures of campaigning against the tubercle 
bacillus, not even by the segregation of the actively tuberculous, 
does there seem any real hope of salvation. We have to improve 
the homes of the working classes in the first place it is a sound 
popular instinct that inspires the popular outcry against urban 
and even rural housing conditions ; in the second place, we have 
to ensure better factory conditions ; here it is not so much 
sanitation in the popular sense as hygiene in the wider appre- 
hension of the term. We require regulation of the hours and 
intensity of work, of the physical characters of the atmosphere, 
and of the quantity and quality of the meals taken, so that the 
workman returning home shall not reach it in a condition of 
definitely lowered resistance to an infection which must still be 
regarded as ubiquitous. 

II. Adverse Influences. 

Influences of Ventilation. While each of these factors exerts 
an important effect upon resistance to infection and to disease 
generally, one or other may be of more importance in relation to 
pulmonary tuberculosis. This disease attacks the organs of 
respiration ; and, although the line of thought may be dangerous, 
it is tempting to consider that atmospheric conditions upon 
which the functions of these organs depend may exert a para- 
mount influence. Certainly conditions of ventilation in industrial 
establishments vary most from natural outdoor conditions in 
industries, such as printing, tailoring, and making boots, where 
purely physical labour is not very strenuous ; and in 
these industries phthisis is unduly prevalent. Inadequate 
respiratory activity due to the defective ventilation may possibly 
be the potent influence. Some support of this view is derived 
from study of an essentially occupational disease, tubercular 



144 TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 

silicosis. This disease has been shown by one of us (7) only to 
develop among those exposed to the prolonged inhalation of 
fine silica particles. Pathological changes, with extensive 
formation of fibrous tissue in the lungs, follow, until the 
amount of normal tissue useful for respiratory purposes is greatly 
reduced. Respiratory activity becomes quite inadequate ; 
and those so affected with silicosis fall an easy prey to tuber- 
culosis. The statistical distribution of the resulting mortality 
among sandstone masons, tin miners, grinders of metal on sand- 
stone wheels, or potters, coincides with Brownlee's middle-age 
type. Without claiming that the evidence is conclusive, we 
suggest there is a primd facie case for considering phthisis, when 
influenced by industry, as being mainly contributed to by 
conditions which conduce to shallow breathing and inadequate 
respiratory activity. The effect of silicosis in limiting working 
capacity and metabolic processes is definite ; Hill has em- 
phasised (5) the effect of sedentary occupations in still warm 
atmospheres in lowering basal metabolism. " Growth may be 
stunted and consumption predisposed to by an actual deficiency 
of food. . . . These results may also be caused in the confined 
sedentary worker who has enough food to satisfy his appetite, 
but whose metabolism is depressed by occupation and conditions 
of environment to a very low level. . . . Contrast these," he 
writes, " with the wild ass of Sind, whose skin shines with the 
wonderful gloss of perfect condition, and whose strength and 
fleetness is such that to ride him down a horseman has to take 
in relay seven fresh horses. ' The wild asses snuffed up the 
wind like dragons.' ' Who hath sent out the wild ass free,' and 
men into slavery ? " 

Influence of Diet. There is also another point for considera- 
tion, for, as has been written, " the defects involved in civilised 
environment and more particularly met with in urban life are 
(a) dietetic ; (b) involving confinement and lack of fresh air " (8). 
With (b) we have just dealt. The discovery of accessory food 
factors (vitamines) has recently shed new light upon the question 
of dietetics ; and we must now recognise that the worker 
requires not only energy in his food sufficient for his activities, 
but also a supply of vitamines sufficient to render the food 
supply available. There are indications that adults, carrying 
on hard physical exercise, require (just as growing children do) 
an additional supply of vitamines ; that without it they lack 
vitality and resistance to disease ; and that " bacterial agencies 
are often but weeds which flourish in soil made ready for them 
by dietetic defects " (9). Foods especially rich in vitamines, 
e.g., eggs, butter, animal fats, and fresh vegetables, are expen- 



EUGENICS 145 

sive ; further, " considering in the first place the fat soluble 
accessory, it is noteworthy that milk, cream, butter, cod liver 
oil, all rich sources of this factor, form the basis of the treatment 
of diseases of malnutrition and of tuberculosis, and it must be 
admitted that such foodstuffs are more than mere sources of fat, 
otherwise the cheaper fats, such as lard and the vegetable oils, 
would long ago have been adopted as equally efficient for the 
purpose " (8). Herein may lie the reason (i.) why phthisis is a 
pestis pauperum ; (ii.) why the urban industrial male, doing 
heavier work and requiring an additional supply of food energy 
and of vitamines, is more prone to phthisis than the female ; 
and (iii.) why female munition workers, who at first tried to 
obtain energy from buns and tea, succumbed to the disease. 
Industrial dietetics are dealt with in another chapter ; here it is 
sufficient to point out the influence that food may exert upon 
the incidence of phthisis among industrial workers. 

Eugenic Aspect. These conclusions are essentially supported 
by the general epidemiological facts and opinions detailed. One 
further consideration remains, the eugenic aspects of tuberculosis. 
Little or nothing about them has been said here, because there 
is little to say ; many important facts are not suitable for 
dissertations. But the contention of Karl Pearson, a contention 
which clothed in scientific form the ancient belief of an inherited 
predisposition to take phthisis, has never been seriously weakened 
by hostile criticism. It remains true, or at least highly probable, 
that a predisposition is inherited, and inherited with as much 
intensity as any of the normal variable characters of man. Hence 
it follows that the marriage of and consequent reproduction by 
members of tainted stocks will help to perpetuate the disease; 
the discouragement of parenthood amongst members of such 
stocks will help to diminish it. The numerical importance of 
this factor no man can evaluate ; but it is to be a bad epidemio- 
logist, and, what is worse, a bad citizen, to pretend that this 
eugenic aspect of disease is a mere fad made ridiculous by the 
discoveries of modern pathology. There is no opposition what- 
ever between the sane epidemiology of environmental factors 
and that of innate factors ; the apparent opposition has been 
due co the tendency we all possess to love wrangling better than 
truth. After all, " In my Father's house are many mansions." 

A suggestive example of the commingling of the several 
factors we have discussed is provided by Dr. Arthur Reed 
Perry (15), who has studied the vital statistics of the population 
of Fall River, one of the great centres of cotton manufacture in 
America. It appears from his data that in contradistinction to 
our experience in this country the incidence of tuberculosis is 



146 TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 

excessive upon -the operative population ; at ages fifteen to 
forty-five, the employed men have 51 per cent, and the employed 
women 142 per cent, more fatal tuberculosis than the non- 
operative population of like 'ages. In one department, that of 
spinning, the excess is much greater ; the males have a death 
rate from tuberculosis 104 per cent, above the standard, the 
women surpass their standard by 207 per cent. The physical 
labour in this department is not excessive, but " the most strik- 
ing physical features of the spinning room are the heat and 
moisture of the atmosphere. The cotton cannot be spun success- 
fully if it is dry and the effort to keep it sufficiently moist for 
good handling often leads to an excess of humidity." Here we 
have an atmospheric condition not particularly appropriate for 
the distribution of the specific germ, but sinning against the 
canons laid down in our chapter on ventilation. 

Turn now to a department where the conditions are ideal for 
the dissemination of the bacillus ; an atmosphere not over- 
moist and warm, but hazy with vegetable fibres, dust and " fly." 
These conditions are furnished in the card room, and in that 
department the death rate among women is still more excessive, 
235 per cent., than amongst the female spinners. But amongst 
the men employed in the two departments there is a contrast, for 
while the male spinners have 104 per cent, excess, the male 
carders show only 24 per cent, excess (we are to remember that, 
the numbers at risk being small, only large differences are signi-' 
ficant). Dr. Perry explains this discrepancy ; he says of the 
male carders : " Since to a large extent they are newly arrived 
immigrants, they are still in good physical condition, for any 
definite weakness would have barred them from entering the 
country, and since they leave the card room for better-paying 
work as soon as possible they are not so long exposed to the dust, 
poor light, and bad ventilation as the females are." This study 
then exemplifies the effects of (a) bad general conditions, 
(b) specific hazard, (c) physical selection. 

III. Prevention, Detection and Treatment in relation to Industry. 

Examination of the incidence of tuberculosis from an industrial 
standpoint has thrown some light upon the influences which 
contribute to its occurrence. The organisation of industry also 
provides powerful means if properly used for preventing its 
occurrence, for detecting its presence, and for providing for its 
cure. 

Prevention. --The conclusion arrived at that tuberculosis 
among adults is predisposed to by industrial occupation sug- 



DETECTION OF PHTHISIS U7 

. 

gested the importance of three influences pathological fatigue, 
inadequate ventilation, and insufficient food. Each of these 
influences is dealt with in other chapters, and we need only 
remark here that if attention is paid to their elimination, then 
those industrially employed should be at least equally able to 
resist the morbid influence of the home as those not so employed, 
and the result would be to reduce the incidence of tuberculosis 
among males to that among females, while, in so far as females 
also come under the influence of industrial conditions, the 
incidence among them would also be lowered. 

Detection. The establishment of an adequate factory medical 
service through which all applicants for work would be examined 
and the health of those at work would be supervised, would bring 
under medical review adults among whom pulmonary tuber- 
culosis is especially prevalent in the same way as school 
children among whom the disease is far less prevalent are 
reviewed to-day. No one can gainsay the value of medical 
review of school children. The general importance of factory 
medical service is discussed later ; but attention may here be 
drawn to its special value in relation to tuberculosis. Dr. Mock, 
an industrial surgeon of great experience, in America, employed 
by a large engineering concern where the personnel of the workers 
increased rapidly between 1909 and 1913, tells (11) how, when 
he commenced work, he " found forty-five cases of tuberculosis 
in 1909 working in a plant. Five of these died from the disease 
because they were discovered in an advanced stage. In 1913, 
five years later, 101 cases of this disease were found with only 
two deaths resulting. This reduction in the death rate has 
been constant ever since the general house cleaning took place 
eight and nine years ago." He also gives an instance of early 
detection of the disease which is so important a factor in effecting 
a cure ; an epidemic of influenza occurred in the winter of 
1915-16 ; " in March, 1916, eighteen cases of tuberculosis were 
found among the employees. All of these had suffered during 
the winter from the epidemic. Twelve of these cases had been 
examined during the year previous to the attack, and no signs 
of tuberculosis had then been discovered." 

Industrial treatment. The importance of industrial occupation 
in the treatment of phthisis is only coming to be recognised as 
the influence of each patient's psychological outlook on life is 
coming to be more appreciated by the profession, as his capacity 
for physical exertion is rightly understood, and as the pdte-de- 
foie-gras rest-treatment is surrendering its hold. Treatment 
spread over long periods during which the well-being of the 
patient is essential to cure has little chance of success if the mind 

10-2 



148 TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 

is not healthily occupied. Only during an acute exacerbation 
need most -phthisical patients be entirely precluded from all 
forms of physical exertion. No form of occupation is so interest- 
ing to the convalescing patient as that to which he hopes finally 
to return. Phthisical patients take a long period, two or three 
years, before they can safely undertake regular heavy work. 
These facts indicate that the convalescing phthisical should be 
encouraged to undertake, under medical supervision and for 
such periods as are found safe, that occupation at which they 
are skilled ; and that only a small minority should be directed 
to outdoor pursuits which for the most part are too arduous for 
them. 

The object should be to make the conditions of daily work fit 
for the recovering patient, rather than to divert skilled workers 
to poorly paid employment for which they have no aptitude and 
which possesses no intrinsic advantages over their own handi- 
crafts. What is required is to provide for " industrial conva- 
lescence " by passing the patients into factory sanatoria where 
they can work under medical supervision and receive pay for 
what they do. Action on these lines was advocated (12) in 
1914 in these words : " I wish every great industrial centre 
would establish a sanatorium factory where the chief industry 
of the district could be carried on, and where such cases could 
continue their handicraft under the best possible conditions ; 
such an institution would become semi-self-supporting and would 
remove the objection early cases have to submit themselves to 
treatment, while the problem of how to make the premises in 
which certain industries are carried on hygienic would be set 
forth for all to see. Then we might go into the highways and 
byways and compel the unwilling guests to come in." In the 
following year the scheme was more fully elaborated in a report 
published by the Medical Research Committee (13), as follows : 

' k THE PROVISION OF EMPLOYMENT FOR SANATORIUM PATIENTS. 

" The advantages of sanatorium treatment are now generally 
recognised, and the State has organised a scheme for providing 
it. In practice, however, it is faced with two chief difficulties. 

" 1. The patient frequently comes under treatment too late. 
Often this results from the patient being a wage earner with 
others dependent on him. Though consciously failing in health 
he may hesitate to seek medical service, or even after he has 
ascertained the nature of his malady he may decline to surrender 
his livelihood by going into a sanatorium. 

" A patient who under sanatorium treatment has so far 



INDUSTRIAL TREATMENT 149 

recovered as to be discharged may return to work, but before 
he has settled down to the pace of the factory, working iifty-four 
hours a week, he may break down again. 

' These difficulties have been carefully considered, and in 
order to meet them we desire to advocate a modified form of 
sanatorium treatment. Briefly, the scheme is to establish, in 
connection with the ordinary form of sanatorium, a work place 
for the manufacture of boots and shoes. Here consumptive 
operatives in an early stage of the disease, and convalescing 
patients could carry on their trade under medical supervision 
for such hours as they are able,, and earn wages in proportion. 
The value of work mentally and physically as an integral part 
of treatment is certain, and at present in sanatoria physical 
labour of a character unremunerative compared with the earning 
power possessed by skilled craftsmen is being invented. Such 
work often deteriorates the character of the young operative and 
turns him into a loafer. 

" As health is re-established the working hours and earning 
capacity would be increased, until, finally, normal hours could 
be safely undertaken in many cases and factory employment 
resumed. 

" . . . It would be among the more important advantages 
offered by the plan for a factory sanatorium if, as a result of his 
stay, an operative could be taught how to carry on his handicraft 
under hygienic conditions. The influence upon his fellow men 
of his acquired habits after his return to the factory might be 
considerable." 

Steps in this direction are under consideration in this country, 
especially for reclaiming tuberculous soldiers, but no .definite 
data can be quoted to instance the success of the plan. In 
America, on the other hand, practical results are being obtained 
at least at one post-sanatorium factory at Hoboken (11) : 

" Here under the best hygienic conditions, and constantly 
supervised by a competent doctor, over 200 tuberculous em- 
ployees have been given graduated work until they were finally 
able to return to full time employment, when they graduated 
from the (sanatorium) factory. Tinsmiths, clerks, jewellers, 
junk men, and many others have learned to be garment makers 
and are drawing larger salaries now than they made previous to 
their sickness. This factory has demonstrated that the garment 
industry, when properly conducted, is not a hazardous occupa- 
tion predisposing to lung trouble. . . . Over 90 per cent, of the 
families of the patients at the factory were under the care of 
relief^ agencies. Of fifty-eight who received relief from three 
months to five years, seventeen are partially self-supporting, 



150 



TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 



and forty-one are entirely self-supporting. Patients whose 
families were granted from 40 dollars to 80 dollars a month by 
chanties and relief agencies are now earning from 60 dollars to 
160 dollars a month." 

TABLE 8. Earnings in a Factory Sanatorium. 



Number of 
patients. 


Earnings in 
dollars per week. 


Period of work 
permitted. 


2 


9 or less. 


Half a day or less. 


2 
3 


9 ,or less. 
9 to 15. 


Half a day to six hours. 


2 


9 or less. 




14 
24 


9 to 15. 
15 to 25. 


Six hours to full day. 


12 


25 to 40. 





The table here given shows the earnings of fifty-nine patients 
at work at one time ; of these seventeen were in the first stage 
of the disease, forty in the second stage, and two in the third. 
Fifty-four had previously been through sanatorium treatment, 
while five had been treated at home. 

Dr. Mock says (11): "The establishing, therefore, of indus- 
tries in certain centres where these ex-sanatoria patients could 
be sent for graduated employment under proper medical super- 
vision is a duty which should no longer be neglected. Those 
States which are providing sanatoria for the tuberculous should 
at once provide these State industries where they can work 
until such time as it is safe for them to return to private employ- 
ment. It is a fallacy to recommend outdoor employment, such 
as farmmg, for all arrested or apparently cured tuberculous 
patients. Many of these are not vocationally trained or phy- 
sically fit for the strenuous outside work, and to others it is 
abhorrent. Experience in caring for the tuberculous employee 
has proven that the majority of these can return to their former 
occupations, providing there are no known hazards connected 
with it." 

The same author states that, " of the total number of em- 
ployees who have received treatment, approximately 250 
have returned to work in the same concern, at their old occupa- 
tions or in some other position less hazardous. There have 
been twenty recurrences among those cases kept under observa- 
tion, and in all but three of these the disease has again been 



INDUSTRIAL TREATMENT 151 

arrested. This is a far lower recurrence rate than is usually 
found in this disease, thus demonstrating the value of health 
supervision. The use of short vacations when threatening 
symptoms developed prevented many of these employees from 
breaking down." The claim made that the recurrence rate 
under this form of treatment is low is justified by comparing 
these results with figures published by Dr. W. H. Dickinson (14). 
He deals with applicants for sanatorium benefit in Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne for the period July, 1912, up to December 31st, 
1919, and finds that out of 1,163 " completed " cases only 
eighty- one are now working or fit to work, while over 800 are 
known to have died. 

A factory sanatorium, where, of course, the doctor is the 
" boss," clearly approaches near to being a self-supporting 
institution, and can be used for passing on patients from ordinary 
sanatorium beds upon which the demand to-day is so heavy. 
Greater economy is, therefore, to be effected by establishing 
these less expensive institutions than by increasing the amount 
of sanatorium accommodation, from which the patients are 
too often passed back to ordinary life, only to break down 
and return. Much more might be written on this interesting 
scheme which could be applied mutatis mutandis to convalescence 
from other forms of serious illness among the industrially 
employed. We are content to outline the scheme, and to point 
out that to-day unnecessary and misplaced ingenuity is being 
expended in inventing quite unsuitable and unremunerative 
forms of physical exercise for the recovering phthisical typists 
and needlewomen are set to damage their sensitive finger tips 
using pickaxes and spades, and skilled mechanics are turned on 
to the land ; the only underlying principle appears to be the 
shibboleth of " open-air " work ; and that lack of after-care 
treatment, lack of preparation of the arrested case for resumption 
of civilian life, is to-day the blot upon our treatment of tuber- 
culosis. Industries can and should provide this after-care on 
the lines here outlined for a di ease in the prevalence of which, 
as we have pointed out, they play so conspicuous a part. 

Spittoons. Prevention of the spread of infection is of un- 
doubted importance. Notices are frequently displayed com- 
manding persons not to spit. The intention of these notices is 
admirable, but personal observation makes manifest to all 
that they do not effect their purpose. Even if the rising genera- 
tion adopt better manners and do not acquire the habit of 
expectorating (of which we can at present see no obvious signs), 
the present generation possess the habit, which must be dealt 
with as an existing custom an objectionable thing which may 



152 TUBERCULOSIS AND INDUSTRY 

foe ameliorated before it is abolished. Few persons unacquainted 
with industry can be aware of the danger to the public as well 
us to the workers themselves arising from spitting. When, 
however, we state that expectoration takes place into tea, 
dough troughs, fish, vegetables and other comestibles, as well 
as upon materials used for wearing apparel, the necessity for 
action becomes clearer. 

The provision of spittoons or cuspidors is the only practical 
remedy. Working men are accustomed to their use in inn- 
parlours, and can be persuaded to use them. Spittoons should be 
placed in readily accessible positions not on the floor where 
they are readily knocked over. They should be made of 
enamelled metal with long handles for convenience of removal. 
Every day they should be washed out with hot water and 
exposed to a jet of steam during five to ten minutes. 

The provision of spittoons is of value for the control, not only 
of tubercular infection, but of the more frequent catarrhal 
infections. The main objection to dry sweeping of floors rests 
upon the presence there of dried sputa ; if all spitting was into 
spittoons, floor dust would become less infectious. While the 
provision and proper use of spittoons would go far to minimise 
the danger arising from spitting, a new custom would thereby 
be introduced. Workers, like others, are naturally conservative 
and might readily object, and a manager would be well advised 
to place the matter in the hands of the welfare committee of 
the works. If this committee decide in favour of spittoons, 
they will ensure that promiscuous spitting no longer takes 
place. 

IV. Bibliography. 

1. Bulloch, W., and Greenwood, M. " The Problem of Pulmonary 
Tuberculosis considered from the Standpoint of Disposition." Proc. 
Roy. Soc. Med., Sect. Epidem. p. 143. 1911. 

2. Maynard, G. D. " A Statistical Study of Cancer Death Rates." 
Biomet, VII. 190910. 

3. Brown, J. W., and Mohan Lai. " An Inquiry into the Relation 
between Social Status and Cancer Mortality." Journal of Hygiene* 
XIV., No. 2. 1914. 

4. Greenwood, M., and Tebb, A. E. " An Inquiry into the 
Prevalence and ^Etiology of Tuberculosis among Industrial Workers, 
with special reference to Female Munition Workers." Medical 
Research Committee. Special Report Series, No. 22. 1919. 

5. Hill, L. E. " The Science of Ventilation." Medical Research 
Committee. Special Report Series. No. 32. 1919. 

6. Brownlee, J. " An Investigation into the Epidemiology of 
Phthisis in Great Britain and Ireland." Medical Research Committee. 
Special Report Series, No. 18. 1918 : Part III., No. 46. 1920. 

7. Collis, E. L. " Industrial Pneumonoconioses." Milroy Lec- 
tures (1915). H.M. Stationery Office. 1919. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 153 

8. " Report on Accessory Food Factors (Vitamines)." Medical 
Research Committee. Special Report Series, No. 38. 1919. 

9. McCarrison, R. " Effects of Deficient Dietaries on Monkeys." 
Brit. Med. Journal. February 21st, 1920. 

10. Thomson. H. Hyslop. Tuberculosis and Public Health. Long- 
mans, Green & Co. 1920. 

11. Mock, H. E. Industrial Medicine and Surgery. W. B. 
Saunders Co. Philadelphia. 1919. 

12. Collis, E. L. " The House in Relation to Tuberculosis, 
considered with regard to the Conditions of Factory Life." Trans. 
Sixth Ann. Conf. Nat. Assoc. Prev. Consump. Leeds. 1914. 

13. " Report of Special Investigation Committee upon the 
Incidence of Phthisis in relation to Occupations." Medical Research 
Committee. Special Report Series, No. 1. 1915. 

14. Dickinson, W. H. A Survey of Sanatorium Benefit. New- 
castle-upon-Tyne. 1920. 



CHAPTER VII 

CANCER AND INDUSTRY 

I. Increase in Cancer Mortality. II. Cancer and Civilisation. III. Effect 
of Modern Civilisation on the Life of the People. IV. Cancer and. 
Social Status. V. Cancer and Industrialisation. VI. Cancer in 
Occupations. VII. Bibliography. 

THE influence exerted by industry upon the prevalence of the 
tubercular group of diseases has been discussed to show how it 
affects a disease, the pestis pauperum, especially prevalent in 
industry and among those whose health is impaired by either 
insufficient food (as in the case of the central nations of Europe 
in the Great War), by illness, or over-fatigue. There is no 
sufficient body of evidence relating to the effect exerted by 
industry upon the prevalence of most of the important causes 
of death, such as heart disease or rheumatism, to place before 
our readers ; but something may be said of the group of diseases 
included under the heading of cancer, not so much on account 
of the plenitude of the evidence available, but because of the 
contrast, already referred to on p. 128, which appears to exist 
between cancer and tuberculosis. The age incidence of the two 
groups of diseases shows one marked contrast (see Diagrams 1 to 
6, Chapter VIII., pp. 178-80) ; tuberculosis occurs when the 
activities of life, and the metabolic changes they represent, are 
in full swing, and dies away as those activities diminish ; cancer 
appears as the vigour of life wanes, and gathers strength as 
vitality diminishes. 

We have pointed out how the influence of modern industrial life, 
which is exerted predominantly on the male, may have retarded 
the fall in mortality from tuberculosis, especially at the ages of 
middle life. The facts are open to the interpretation that 
modern industry, by increasing wealth, i.e., by increasing the 
amount of production per head of population and so the sur- 
plus of production, has diminished poverty, and so has led to a 
decrease in tuberculosis. That this is not the whole explanation 
is shown by the facts that (a) the decline has been as great 
amongst such classes as agricultural labourers whose economic 
status improved little as amongst skilled operatives whose status 
has improved greatly, and (b) the decline has been more rapid 
among women than among men. 



INCREASE OF CANCER 155 



I. Increase in Cancer Mortality. 

The question now for consideration is whether this industrial 
influence has in any way directly or indirectly affected the 
mortality from cancer. Certainly there is primd facie a reason 
for investigation, since the mortality from cancer has been 
advancing rapidly (while that from tuberculosis has been falling, 
see p. 129) in those countries in which industrialisation has been 
advancing. Thus the combined returns (1, p. 28) from the 
United Kingdom, Norway, Holland, Prussia, Baden, Switzerland, 
Austria, the cities of Denmark, the Commonwealth of Australia, 
and the Dominion of New Zealand, show that these countries in 
1881 had 44,047 deaths from cancer among an aggregate popula- 
tion of 98,380,000, a mortality rate of 44 '8 per 100,000 of popula- 
tion ; in 1891 the rate had risen to 59 '6 ; in 1901 to 76 '3 ; in 
1911 to 90-4; and in 1912 to 91'9 (with 125,832 deaths from 
cancer in an aggregate population of 136,892,000). In England 
and Wales considered alone the standardised cancer death rate 
per 100,000 of population in 1906 10 was 88 '2 ; . in 1911 it was 
91'4 ; it rose in 1912 to 93 '7 ; and in 1913 to 97 '2. Another 
instance is provided by the State of Massachusetts, U.S.A., for 
which, as it contains the important medical centre of Boston, 
death certification should be particularly reliable ; here the 
cancer death rate in 1871 was 36*9 per" 100,000 population ; in 
1881 the rate had risen to 52 '3; in 1891 to 60 '9; in 1901 to 
73 '1 ; and in 1911 to 92 '6. Instances might be multiplied 
almost indefinitely ; thus in New South Wales in 1881 the crude 
rate was 28 '2, and in 1913 it was 73*6 ; in England and Wales in 
1881 it was 52 '0, and in 1913 it was 105 '5 ; and in Berlin in 1881 
it was 64 '6, and in 1912 it was 132 '8 ; but sufficient additional 
evidence is given in Table 1 to justify the conclusion that " the 
mortality from cancer is increasing at a more or less alarming 
rate throughout the entire civilised world " (1, p. 218), 

II. Cancer and Civilisation. 

This conclusion has been attacked on two grounds : (i.) 
" Owing to improved medical certification, cases previously not 
accurately diagnosed are now ascribed to cancer." As long as 
medical knowledge continues to advance, this objection can be 
raised against the value of any statistics based on medical 
certificates, the more readily in that it is not open to proof or 
disproof. Even if a sound objection to a comparison of the 
statistics of 1871 or 1881 with those of 1911, hardly any one will 
maintain that medical diagnosis has changed suddenly through 



156 



CANCER AND INDUSTRY 



a. 
1 



a 



a 


S 

I 



i i(MCC-*votot^ccc;Oi HMCO 

OOOOOOOOOi IT (i 1 1 



oo<?si(tc6t-r-OTOc 

^ 1O O >O >O >O CO CO CO CO O CO l> tr- 



"BTJBA'Bfl 



00 05 CO l> C 00 < l> i CO 01 3 

OSOOOrHOrHOOO'-Hi-H'-l 



01 l> 5 05 OC 05 05 <] 00 ? CO 00 6 | 



'U'BCl'Bf 



A'oupA's 



KOQ 



5IJOA AV8M 



COCOr-HlOi-lWlNCOCOCCCOOrHO 



QO<Ol>tl>t*t-QOQO ' 



OOXGOXGCOOOCJOiCSOJOiOO 






c 
W 
x 

& 

8 



^ 
s 
ft 

I 

i 

I 

I 

U 

I 



INCREASE OF CANCER 157 

out the world between 1900 and 1912 to an extent required by 
the data embodied in Table 1. 

This objection is not called in to explain the general i'all in 
mortality from tuberculosis, or the higher rate' of tuberculosis 
in Ireland than in England, but it is claimed to disprove the 
general rise in mortality from cancer, and the lower mortality 
from cancer in Ireland than in England. 

We are aware of the importance attached by various authorities 
to this objection, and consider it sufficient to modify* the exact 
amount of cancer increase, but not to refute the evidence that 
cancer has been steadily increasing. 

One of the authors, in collaboration with the late Frances Wood, 
has dealt (2) with this objection for the specific cases claimed to 
support it, and has shown that, after full allowance is made, it 
is hard to believe that the mortality from cancer has not really 
increased.* 

Were this objection valid, the increase of cancer should be 
mainly due to increase of cancer of inaccessible organs, which is 
difficult of diagnosis, and only to a slight extent to increase 
of cancer of accessible organs, which is more obvious ; but, in 
fact, this is not so. Thus for England and Wales the male 
cancer rate of accessible organs increased 27 *4 per cent, between 
1897 1900 and 1901 10, and that of inaccessible organs 
22 '2 per cent, between the same periods ; while the female rate 
of increase for accessible organs was 16 '7 per cent., and for 
inaccessible organs 16 '6 per cent. ; and for Bavaria the increase 
of male rate between 1905 07 and 1905 10 for accessible 
organs was 25 '5 per cent., and for inaccessible organs 5*2 per 
cent. ; while the female rate of increase was 15*6 per cent, for 
accessible organs, and 4*3 per cent, for inaccessible organs. 

(ii.) " Increased longevity has permitted a larger proportion oj the 
population to reach the cancer period of life" In order fully to 
justify this objection the cancer rate, distributed by age periods 
of life, should have remained unaltered ; and the gross rate 
should only appear greater than formerly because the distribu- 
tion of the population in these age periods has altered. While 
the gross cancer rate is greatly affected by the age .distribution 
of the population, it is not true that the cancer rate for the 
different age periods has remained unaltered, as may be seen 
from Tables 2 and 3, p. 158. 

The figures given in Table 1 further show that the cancer 
rate is not uniform throughout the world, but varies consider- 
ably, town from town, and country from country, lower rates 
usually prevailing in rural districts, and higher rates in large 

* For a discussion of the specific case of Irish hospitals see (10, p. 36). 



158 



\ 



CANCER AND INDUSTRY 



TABLE 2. Cancer Rate per 100,000 Population for all Males, 
England and Wales, at certain Age Periods. 





Years of Age 


Period. 


35-41. 


45-54. 


55-64. 


05 and 
over. 


189092 


36-6 


117-6 


276-2 


461-7 


11)0002 


39-9 


144-7 


362-2 


638-3 



TABLE 3. Cancer Rate per 100,000 Population for all Persons, 
United States Registration Area, at Age Periods. 



Years of Age. 



Period. 


under 
























5. 


5-9. 


10-14. 


15-19. 


20-24. 


25-34. 


35-44. 


45-54. 


55-64. 


<;5-74. 




























1901 


3-4 


1-0 


0-9 


2-1 


3-9 


13-4 


(>0-2 


146-5 


268-3 


418-8 


557-6 


1911 


3-0 


1-2 


1-3 


2-3 


4-8 


13-9 


61-0 


166-3 


352-4 


566-7 


794-7 










i 















towns ; thus the rate for Ireland is below that for England and 
Wales, and the latter is below that for London ; further, we 
find that, when standardised, the urban cancer death rates in 
England and Wales are somewhat higher than the rural rates, 
and the same .holds good in the United States. Generally, 
cancer appears to be more prevalent and to be increasing more 
rapidly where industrialisation is more pronounced, and this 
conclusion receives support from the world distribution of 
cancer according to latitude (see Table 4). The density of 

TABLE 4. Mortality from Cancer in Cities according to 
Latitude, 19081912. 



No. of 
cities. 


Degrees of 
latitude. 


Ah i an annual 
temperature. 


Rainfall. 


K.-if r per 
100,000 
population. 


85 


60 N. 50 N. 


48-0 


29-1 ins. 


105-7 


48 


50 N. -40 N. 


50-3 


;u-o 


92;4 


24t 


40 N. 30 N. 


58-5 


37-9 


78-1 


7 


30 N. 10 N. 


72-5 


57-1 


42-3 


4 


10 N. 10 S. 


74-6 


83-3 


40-9 


7 


10 S. 30 S. 


65-9 


40-3 


37-7 


5 


30 S.^ 40 S. 


62-7 


36-7 


89-8 



Compiled from data published by Hoffman (1, pp. 142-3). 



CIVILISATION AND CANCER 159 

population is not here the ruling factor, since in great cities, 
like Bombay and London, it is not so pronouncedly different as 
between urban and rural areas in any country, but the extent 
to which modern industry is carried on in great cities varies 
with their distance from the equator. The objection may 
reasonably be raised that cities nearer the equator are inhabited 
by more primitive races who subsist on a pronouncedly vege- 
tarian diet and are exposed to greater temperature and rainfall. 
Maynard has investigated (7) for the cities of the United 
States the possibility of meteorological conditions influencing 
the incidence of cancer, but after considering sunshine in hours, 
mean temperature and rainfall, he was unable to discover the 
existence of any connection. The North American Indians 
and the Esquimo population of Labrador and Alaska provide 
further evidence in reply to this objection ; among these primi- 
tive peoples cancer is remarkably rare,* although they live to an 
unusual extent upon a meat diet, while the Indians are exposed 
to the same geographical and climatic conditions, and possess 
an age distribution as favourable to cancer as that of their 
white reighbours. The one distinguishing feature is their lack 
of civilisation. Still, the proposition may be advanced that 
a low cancer rate is innate in primitive races ; certainly ." all 
the available evidence is to the effect that the recorded cancer 
death rate of primitive races is materially below the average 
for civilised countries " (1, p. 15). As against this we find that 
when a primitive race, the negroes of America, became an 
intimate part of a civilised country, their cancer death rate 
rose. " Evidence is available to substantiate the conclusion 
that cancer was relatively of rare occurrence among our negro 
population during a condition of slavery, but that the frequency 
has rapidly increased during the last thirty years " (1, p. 147). 
Matas, as well, considers " the negro constitution has probably 
undergone some change under American civilisation, since it 
cannot be doubted- that cancer is comparatively rare in the 
native African, rare also in the original slave population in this 
country (U.S.A.), and has only become a common disease in the 
American negro of the last few generations. It is also probable 
that the conditions that are causing an increase in the pre- 
valence of cancer among the whites are also acting with the 
same effect upon the negroes "(8). We find (1, p. 128) that 
while in the Southern cities of America the cancer death rate 
among the white population was 52-7 in the period 1891 95, 

* " Among sonic li:j,0(M) Indians of all tribes, living under a variety of 
social, economic and climatic conditions, there occurred only two deaths, 
from cancer as medically observed in the year 1914 " (1, p. 151). 



160 CANCER AND INDUSTRY 

and 96-6 in 191,3, that of the negro population was 39-1 and 
73-5 in the two periods, i.e., the negro mortality rate from cancer 
in 1913 was well above that experienced by whites in 1891 95. 
There would not, therefore, on the evidence, appear to be any 
innate resisting power in primitive races against cancer. The 
conclusion which may legitimately be drawn seems to be that 
the sudden change which has taken place in the conditions of life 
consequent upon the development of modern industry, has been 
associated with a rapid rise in cancer mortality, and this rise is 
greatest where modern industry is most developed. 

m. Effect of Modern Civilisation on the Life of the People. 

Any given generation can with difficulty grasp the enormous 
changes which civilisation has brought about, or measure the 
influence of these changes upon the habits and life of the people, 
upon their activities and nutrition, and so upon their power to 
resist or succumb to disease. Reference has been made in the 
first chapter to the way in which these changes affected the 
working class population in England ; but the effect of change 
of environment upon a race cannot be expected to become fully 
manifest in one or two generations ; it is cumulative and pro- 
gressive. And when considering the present prevalence or 
increase of a disease so general as that represented by the 
cancer group we must look back and compare the conditions 
of life to-day with those of the past. Compare, for instance, the 
present inhabitants of Scotland with those of the fourteenth 
and fifteenth century, of whom Buckle writes, " Their minds 
must have been immersed in a darkness which we can now 
barely conceive. No trades, or arts, being practised which 
required skill, or dexterity, there was nothing to exercise their 
intellects. They consequently remained so stupid and brutal, 
that an intelligent observer who visited Scotland in 1360, 
likens them to savages, so much was he struck by their bar- 
barism and their unsocial manners. Another writer, early in 
the fifteenth century, uses the same expression and classing 
them with the animals they tended, he declares that Scotland 
is fuller of savages than of cattle." The state in the sixteenth 
and seventeenth century is quoted by the same author : " The 
hovels of the common people were slight erections of turf or 
twigs, which, as they were often laid waste by war, were merely 
built for temporary accommodation. Their towns consisted 
chiefly of wooden cottages. Even as late as 1600 the houses of 
Edinburgh were chiefly built of wood." Another account, 
written in 1670, says : " The houses of the commonalty are 



HYGIENE OF THE PAS^ 161 

very mean, mud wall and thatch, the best, but the poorer sort 
live in such miserable huts as eye never beheld. In some parts 
where turf is plentiful, they build up little cabins thereof, with 
arched roofs of turf, without a stick of timber in it ; when the 
house is dry enough to burn it serves them for fuel, and they 
remove to another." Industries in Scotland were, in the 
eighteenth century, of small account, as Buckle quotes : " Our 
manufactures were carried on by the meanest of people, who 
had small stocks, and were of no reputation*. These were, for 
the most part, workmen for home-consumption, such as masons, 
house carpenters, armourers, blacksmiths, tailors, shoemakers, 
and the like. Our weavers were few in number and in the 
greatest contempt, as their employments were more sedentary, 
and themselves reckoned less fit for war." 

Knowledge relating to health was at a minimum before the 
nineteenth century, and Public Health Acts did not appear 
until the middle of that century. Previously the conditions of 
life were primitive ; there is no record, for instance, previous 
to 1812 of even the streets of Edinburgh being, scavenged or 
watered, and J. A. Young says (9) : " The old days when the 
cry of ' gardey-loo ' was the warning that the street was being 
used as the common sewer were days when the streets were in a 
condition of filthiness difficult to imagine in the present day." 
The same author sets forth the rapid strides which have been 
taken since. 

This comparison is enough to convince any one that to-day 
civilised races are subjected to an environment vastly different 
from that to which through long ages they had been accustomed, 
and to which natural selection had more or less accommodated 
them. Reason would suggest looking for a clue to the increasing 
prevalence of cancer where the alterations in environment have 
been most pronounced, and the diverse conditions of industrial 
life undoubtedly present the greatest alteration, even though 
the changes may not always have been favourable. Social 
history, then, is not opposed to the conclusion suggested by 
statistical inquiry, and further justifies close research into the 
way in which cancer prevails in various occupations, always 
mindful that " general mischiefs depend upon general causes." 

IV. Cancer and Social Status. 

The alterations in conditions 'of life which have taken place 
are the results of industrialisation, which has brought about 
greater social differences affecting health than probably ever 
existed before, and the so-called upper classes have been farther 



162 CANCER AND INDUSTRY 

separated from the poor as regards personal cleanliness, housing, 
food supply, fresh air, clothing and other hygienic conditions 
than were the nobility from the proletariat in any period of the 
world's history of which we have knowledge. There has been 
improvement in every class, but far greater in the higher grades 
of society than in the lower. The industrial classes include all 
the lower grades and permeate upwards. Interest, therefore, 
attaches when considering the relation of cancer to industry 
to any relation which may exist between social status and 
cancer mortality. This question has been dealt with by 
Maynard (7) in America, and also by Brown and Mohan Lai 
in this country (3). Maynard arranged occupations according 
to social status, and found the lowest cancer death rates among 
occupations of the highest social status. Brown and Mohan Lai 
followed a somewhat similar plan, arranging the occupations 
in the following order : (i.) professional men, (ii.) clerks and 
commercial men, (iii.) shopkeepers and assistants, (iv.) skilled 
workers, (v.) domestic servants, and (vi.) unskilled workers. 
They found that the cancer death rate tended to diminish 
with increasing social status and concluded, " there appears 
to be some slight association between a Jiigh cancer death rate 
and low occupational status." These investigators also examined 
for the city of Hamburg the relation between the average 
income of the inhabitants of different divisions of that city 
and the cancer mortalities experienced, and found evidence in 
support of the conclusion that cancer is not more but less fatal 
among well-to-do citizens. 

V. Cancer and Industrialisation. 

The next matter for consideration is whether industrialisation 
per se has been a determining influence in civilisation which has 
led to the increase in cancer mortality, or whether the increase 
has been due to some concomitant influence. When discussing 
tuberculosis, valuable evidence was obtained by contrasting its 
prevalence among males, as representative of industrial employ- 
ment, with that among females, who, as a sex, are far less so 
employed. When cancer is under consideration, this method of 
comparison is not simple ; the total cancer mortality is composed 
of cancer of the various organs and parts of the body, some of 
which are not common to the two sexes, and, in order to obtain 
an estimate of the effect of any given influence upon the cancer 
mortality of the two sexes, the cancer mortality for some neutral 
organ or part must be considered alone. Mortality from cancer, 
when stated for organs and parts is now generally given for 



CANCER AND INDUSTRIALISATION 163 

(1) buccal cavity ; (2) stomach and liver ; (3) peritoneum, 
intestines and rectum ; (4) female generative organs ; (5) female 
breast ; (6) skin ; and (7) other and unspecified. Of these for 
present purposes the buccal cavity must be rejected, because 
there is a positive correlation^ bet ween a high cancer rate for 
this part and masculinity, due perhaps to the male habit of 
smoking ; the group peritoneum, intestines and rectum must be 
rejected on account of the proximity of these parts to the 
generative organs, and the possibility in the female, particularly 
in the case of the peritoneum, of cancer originating, say, in the 
ovaries, being erroneously ascribed to this group ; the skin 
group is so small that errors from age-distribution are likely to 
creep in ; the group other and unspecified is obviously un- 
satisfactory. There remains only the stomach and liver group, 
which includes cancer of the liver, gall bladder, pharynx, oeso- 
phagus and stomach; this group may be considered fairly 
neutral to the two sexes, and the inaccessibility of the organs 
may be disregarded, as the standard of diagnosis in any given 
period and locality will be the same for the two sexes. Cancer 
of the liver group is not as a rule primary, and many cases 
so certified are secondary to primary growth elsewhere ; but 
this factor is likely to increase the female, rather than the 
male, cases on account of the frequency of cancer of the female 
organs. Cancer of the pharynx, on the other hand, is rather 
more prevalent among males, possibly being associated, like the 
buccal cavity, with the male habit of smoking ; but the total 
number of cases is small. Another uncertain element in the 
comparison arises from the age-distribution of the two sexes, 
for which no allowance is made in most published data ; since, 
however, women live rather longer than men, the tendency 
should be for the cancer rate at all ages for the stomach and 
liver group to be rather higher for women. For the comparison 
to be a fair one, the age-distribution of cancer for this group 
should be similar for the two sexes ; and we find (see Table 5) in 
the United States, wl^ere in 1908 12 the mortality rates for this 
group in the two sexes are not far apart 28 '8 for males and 
30 '5 for females per 100,000 population that the rates at various 
age periods approximate in the two sexes for the periods 1903 07 
and 1908 12 ; this evidence receives support from the distri- 
bution of cases in Norway, 1896 1910, and in Amsterdam, 
1897 1902 (see Tables 6 and 7). In so far as the evidence from 
Norway and Amsterdam shows inequality of the age-distribution, 
the tendency is for more cases to occur among females from 
about sixty years of age onwards, i.e., that period of life when 
there is normally an excess of women over men ; so here again 



164 



CANCER AND INDUSTRY 



TABLE 5. Mortality from Cancer of Stomach and Liver for 
United States Registration Area per 100,000 Population at 
certain Age Periods. 





Years of age. 




Sex. 


Under 
















Period. 




10. 


10-24. 


25-34. 


35-44. 


45-54. 


55-04. 


65-74. 


over. 




Males 


0-3 


0-5 


3-0 


16-2 


55-1 


129-5 


215-6 


219-1 


1903 


Females . 


0-3 


0-4 


3-9 


19-1 


59-2 


125-9 


211-9 


229-6 


1907 


Males 


0-4 


0-5 


3-1 


15-4 


57-6 


145-0 


242-4 


278-9 


1908 


Females -. 


0-3 


0-4 


3-8 


19-1 

\ 


62-4 


143-9 


242-4 


290-0 


1912 



TABLE 6. Cancer of Stomach and Liver in Norway, 1896 1910. 
Percentage at certain Age Periods. 





Years of age. 






Sex. 


Under 
30. 


30-39. 


40-49. 


50-59. 


60-69. 


70-79. 


80 and 
over. 


All ages. 


cases. 


Males 


0-4 


2-3 


9-7 


24-2 


26-1 


30-8 


6-5 


100-0 


9,839 


Females . 


0-5 


2-7 


9-7 


21-0 


30-0 


28-0 


8-1 


100-0 


8,947 



TABLE 7. Cancer of (Esophagus., Stomach and Liver., Amsterdam, 
1897 1902. Percentage at certain Age Periods. 



Sex. 


Years of age. 


All 
ages. 


Total 

cases. 


Under 
34. 


3544. 


4554-. 


55-64. 


6574. 


75 and 
over. 


Males . 


1-0 


4-3 


17-5 


35-1 


30-5 


11-6 


100-0 


905 


Females . 


0-7 


5-3 


10-6 


28-1 


33-5 


21-8 


100-0 


737 



TABLE 8. Cancer of (Esophagus, Pharynx, Stomach and 
Liver, Ireland, 1901. Duration of Illness. 















Total 


Sex. 


Under 6 
months. 


6 months 
to 1 year. 


1 year to 
2 years. 


2 years to 
3 years. 


3 years 
and over. 


cases of 
known 














duration. 


Males 


230 


190 


89 


8 


6 


523 


Females . 


222 


172 


88 


11 


6 


499 



MORTALITY BY SEX 



165 



such error as exists favours the gross rate among women. Further 
evidence of the similarity of this group of cancer cases in the two 
sexes is provided by the duration of illness which is stated in 
Table 8, for cases which occurred in Ireland in 1901. 

Another requirement to justify the cancer rate of the stomach 
and liver group being used to compare the liability of the two 
sexes to cancer is that the rate for this group should represent 
a reasonable proportion of the total cancer rate. The rate for 
the stomach and liver group fulfils this requirement, as in the 
period 1908 12 it comprises for : 

( of the total female 
\ cancer deaths. 



. n/ | of the total male 
England and Wales 41-4% , cancep dea>ihs and 



United States 
registration area 
Ireland 
Holland . 
Italy 
New York City . 



49-9% 
45-9% 
67-5% 
51-5% 
49-1% 



29-2 

32-9% 
36-5% 
51-7% 
33-3% 
33-3% 



The next step is to investigate the cancer rate for the stomach 
and liver group as it occurs among males and females. This has 
been done for various parts of the world, and 'the results are 
embodied in Table 9, from which it will be seen that, with the 
single exception of the United States, the male mortality is in 
excess of the female. Even in America, when New York City 
alone is considered, the male rate is slightly above the female. 
On the test applied then, in so far as the two sexes are alike, 
males appear to be more liable to cancer than females. This 
conclusion is one of considerable importance, as by hypothesis 
males are taken to represent the industrial influence of modern 

TABLE 9. Mortality from Cancer, Stomach and Liver. Rate 
per 100,000 Population by Sex. 



Locality. 


Male rate. 


Female . 
rate. 


Period. 


England and Wales . 


35-7 


31-5 


190812 


Ireland . 


35-3 


81-1 




United States registration area . 


28-8 


30-5 




New York City .... 


30-9 


30-5 




Italy 


30-2 


23-8 




Australia ..... 


32-7 


21-9 




Holland 


72-0 


54-9 




Bavaria ..... 


62-7 


55-1 


190510 


Switzerland .... 


84-1 


57-2 


190610 


Japan ..... 


48-4 


31-4 


190910 


Uruguay . 


45-8 


26-9 


190711 


London ..... 


41-5 


27-9 


191112 



166 CANCER AND INDUSTRY 

civilisation ; if this is accepted it appears that industrialisation 
per se may have been a determining influence leading to the 
increase in cancer mortality. 

Granting the correctness of the deduction, then cancer should 
be found to be more prevalent where industrialisation is more 
pronounced. Table 1 shows that this holds good as between the 
cancer death rates for London and for England and Wales ; for 
England and Wales and for Ireland ; for New York City and 
United States registration area ; for Tokyo and Japan ; and 
for urban and rural districts in America. When standardised 
the urban cancer death rates for England and Wales are also 
somewhat higher than the rural rates ; and in Ireland in 1901 
10 the cancer rate, 48 '8, for rural Connaught was much below 
that, 83 -8, for more industrial Ulster, while Munster with a rate 
of 61 '1 stands between. Further, for England and Wales, 
1900 02, the standardised cancer death rate among occupied 
males in industrial districts was 102 '9, as compared with 92 -2 
among occupied males in agricultural districts (see Table 12). 
Thus, evidence is in support of the conclusion already 
drawn. 

The position, then, seems to be that (i.) the mortality from 
cancer has been increasing rapidly ; (ii.) this increase has been 
synchronous with the advance of modern civilisation ; (iii.) the 
increase has been most in countries where the conditions of 
modern civilisation are most pronounced ; (iv.) it is greater in 
cities thaji in the country ; (v.) it is greater in the lower 
grades of society than in the upper ; and (vi.) it is greater 
(when considered on a neutral basis) among males than among 
females. 

We hope the reader will fully understand that the remarks 
made in previous sections are tentative ; that we are alive to 
the extreme complexity of the problem* and the imperfection of 
the data. We are quite aware that changes in fashion of diag- 
nosis and increased surgical and medical skill have prejudiced 
the comparability of the records. Similarly, we do not suggest 
that a specific for cancer is reversion to the barbaric conditions of 
former ages ! We do, however, very strongly feel that the com- 
plex of factors acting upon the human microcosm, the tempera- 
mental and procatarctic factors of the Greeks, deserve the fullest 
attention, and that the solution of the " cancer problem " is not 
likely to be found in the discovery of some one specific factor. 
Man is a very old animal ; civilisation as we know it is the 
creature of a day. The adaptation of the human race to these 
novel conditions cannot be complete, and in the process there 
must be many painful incidents. 



INFLUENCES AFFECTING DISEASE 



167 



VI. Cancer in Occupations. 

The ways in which any disease may become more prevalent 
must be kept in mind when embarking on an investigation. 
First, it may "become more prevalent owing to the general 
resistance of the community to that disease being lowered, so 
that the potency of the disease, previously minimal, becomes 
relatively more powerful ; increase of tuberculosis during partial 
famine is an instance in point. Secondly, trauma may permit 
disease with otherwise subminimal potency to obtain a local 
foothold ; injuries to joints in childhood, followed by tubercular 

TABLE 10. Mortality from Cancer in England and Wales. Per- 
centage by Organs and Parts and Sex. 1897 1900 com- 
pared with 1901 10. 



^ 


Males. 


Females. 


Organ or part. 
















1897-1900. 


1901-10. 


1897-1900, 


1901-10. 


Skin . . 


2-5 


2-3 


1-0 


1-1 


Lips .... 


1-6 


1-6 


0-1 


0-1 


Mouth .... 


1-3 


1-7 


0-2 


0-2 


Tongue 


5-3 


5-5 


0-4 


0-5 


Jaw .... 


2-7 


2-9 


0-6 


0-7 


Lymphatic glands of neck 
Pharynx and throat 


2-7 
2-2 


2-8 
2-3 


0-6 
0-5 


0-6 
0-5 


Larynx 


1-8 


2-0 


0-5 


0-5 


Lungs .... 


1-3 


1-3 


0-6 


0-7 


(Esophagus . 


5-8 . 


6-6 


1-4 


1-6 


Stomach 


20-8 


21-4 


13-4 


14-2 


Pancreas 


1-4 


1-9 


0-8 


1-2 


Liver and gall bladder . 


13-7 


12-4 


13-9 


13-2 


Rectum . 


9-1 


10-1 


5-2 


6-0 


Other intestines 


6-8 


8-3 


5-8 


7-9 


Peritoneum . 


1-0 


0-8 


1-7 


15 


Kidney 


1-0 ' 


1-1 


0-7 


0-8 


Bladder and urethra 


2-9 


3-1 


0-9 


0-9 


Breast .... 


0-2 


0-2 


15-7 


168 


Male generative organs . 


2-5 


3-0 








Uterus. 








22-9 


21-8 


Ovary . . 








1-7 


2-0 


Other organs 


8-8 


7-8 


6-8 


6-3 


Not specified 


4-6 


0-9 


4-6 


0-9 


All organs 


100-0 


100-0 


100-0 


100-0 


Mortality rate per 100,000 










population 


65-72 


77-31 


95-27 


102-73 



168 



CANCER AND INDUSTRY 



TABLE 11. Mortality from Cancer., United States Registration 
Area. Percentage by Organs and Parts and Sex. 1900 
compared with 1913. 





Males. 


Females. 










1900. 


1913. 


1900. 


1913. 


Buccal cavity 


5-8 


8-1 


1-0 


1-1 


Stomach and liver. 


46-9 


48-7 


29-0 


33-5 


Peritoneum, intestines 










and rectum 


10-8 


14-0 


8-0 


12-8 


Female generative organs 








11-6 


15-1 


Female breast 








22-3 


25-8 


Skin .... 


5-4 v 


5-6 


1-7 


2-0 


Other or not specified 










organs 


31-7 


23-6 


26-4 


9-7 


All organs 


100-0 


100-0 


100-0 


100-0 


Mortality rate per 100,000 










population 


47-3 


61-3 


78-6 


97-6 



arthritis, and prolonged inhalation of silica dust, followed by 
tubercular silicosis, are instances. Thirdly, increase in disease- 
potency may break down an unaltered natural resistance, of 
which infections of massive doses of tubercle bacilli provide 
experimental evidence. 

Increase in the prevalence of a general disease like cancer, if 
due to a lowering of general resistance to an influence normally 
present but previously more powerfully resisted, should be found 
distributed statistically in different communities over the various 
organs and parts of the body in the same proportion as formerly ; 
and, in fact, this is what is found to occur, as may be seen from 
the figures of Table 10, in which the number of cases of cancer in 
each organ or part are expressed as a percentage of the total 
number of cases of cancer. There are in this table no notable 
variations in the percentages, and such small variations as are 
present may be accounted for by more accurate specification of 
the part affected. Indeed, far the most notable variation for 
both sexes has occurred under the heading " not specified." 
The data embodied in Table 11 show a similar maintenance of 
the proportion of cases occurring in various parts of the body ; 
and here again the variations present may be fairly ascribed to 
more accurate specification. 

Increase due to trauma should only increase the incidence of 



OCCUPATIONAL CANCER 

the disease in the organ or part affected, and study of such 
increase can only be expected primarily to disclose the causation 
of the trauma ; thus a study of injuries to joints, or of pulmonary 
silicosis, would not per se have disclosed the part played by the 
tubercle bacillus. 

Increase of disease-potency affecting any group should, on 
the other hand, increase the incidence of the disease in that 
group without altering the statistical tendency for various parts 
of the body to be attacked in a definite proportion. 

The information available to-day relating to the prevalence 
of cancer in occupations distributed according to the parts of 
the body affected is unfortunately quite inadequate for any 
intensive investigation on the lines indicated above. The only 
useful data are those published (i.) for mortality from cancer for 
England and Wales, which are standardised for age-distribution 
(see Table 12) ; unfortunately they refer to males only, not to 
females, and no information is given as to the organs and parts 
affected ; and (ii.) for morbidity from cancer in Germany by 
organs and parts (see Tables 13 and 14), which are concerned 
with " only those suffering from the disease who were actively 
employed or employable, or, in other words, persons in the 
advanced stage of the disease were apparently excluded " 
(1, p. 74). These sets of data are in many ways unsatisfactory ; 
nevertheless interest attaches to considering the two sets of data 
together. Any deductions, however, from such a method of 
inquiry must be treated with the greatest reserve. 

The textile industry appears in both sets ; in Table 12 the 
textile workers are shown to have a high and rapidly increasing 
cancer death rate ; in Table 13 they appear with an undue 
proportion of cancer of the digestive organs. Considerable 
attention was given in this country during the later years of last 
century to studying the conditions of humidity and temperature 
most favourable for manipulating threads, especially of cotton 
and flax, and various devices were introduced for warming and 
artificially humidifying the air of weaving sheds. The workers 
experienced ill-effects and complained. Thereupon the Govern- 
ment instituted a careful inquiry, and the amount of humidity 
permitted is now controlled by definite regulations. The 
inquiry is important, because it established that conditions 
favourable for weaving altered the metabolism of the workers (see 
also pp. 289291), who as a class " appear to be small in stature,' 
spare in build, thin in face, pale in complexion, and have a 
wearied look. Many of them complain that their appetites are 
poor and require tempting, and that they suffer from indigestion. 
These conditions cannot be explained otherwise than by the 



170 



CANCER AND INDUSTRY 



prolonged exposure to the effects of the warm moist atmosphere 
in which the weavers work." 

These observations point to disorders of digestion being caused 
by conditions of work in one branch of the textile industry, and 
suggest the possibility of these conditions being the trauma 

TABLE 12. Mortality from Cancer in England and Wales in 
Selected Occupations, 1900 02. Males, Ages Fifteen and 
over. Standardised Death Rates per 100,000 Population. 



Chimney sweeps 
Seamen . 
Brewers 
Tailors 

Textile workers 
Fishermen 
Lawyers . 
Innkeepers 
Gasworks service 
Corn millers 
Shoemakers 
Occupied male 
Butchers . 
Maltsters 
Physicians 
Metal workers 
Hatters . 
Occupied males 
Glass workers 
Bakers . 
Carpenters an< 
Tobacconists 
Farmers and 
Domestic indo 
Printers . 
Occupied male 
Quarrymen 
Potters . 
School teachers 
Clergymen 
Coal merchants 
Railway en| 
Gardeners ai 
Coal miners 
Farm labourers 
Farmers . 
Grocers . 



Occupation. 


Standardised 
death rate. 


Increase or 
decrease since 
189092. 


ps 


224-9 


40-6 




170-5 


+ 57-0 


. 


166-6 


4- 45-5 


. 


112-9 


+ 36-4 


s 


112-6 


+ 37-3 


. 


111-9 


+ 10-9 


. 


111-8 


+ 22-1 


. 


108-8 


+ 15-7 


ice 


107-1 . 


- 6-7 


. 


105-3 


+ 22-7 




103-2 


+ 20-1 


s in industrial districts . 


102-9 


+ 21-9 


. 


102-8 


+ 5-6 


. 


101-6 


7-5 


. 


101-1 


+ 9-7 


. 


101-1 


+ 15-8 




101-0 


+ 16-7 


s 


101-0 


+ 22-5 


. 


100-9 


4- 4-2 


. 


99-3 


4- 20- 1 


1 joiners 


97-6 


4- 17-3 


. 


95-4 


4- 8-4 


raziers 


94-8 


+ 21-9 


or servants . 


93-2 


+ 11-4 


. 


92-9 


+ 15-6 


s in agricultural districts 


92-2 


+ 16-9 


..... 


91-2 


-15-8 




91-0 


+ 27-2 


s 


90-1 


* 4- 18-9 


. ... 


87-3 


4- 20-0 


s 


85-7 


+ 0-9 


e drivers and stokers . 


85-3 


4- 12-7 


nurserymen 


85-2 


4- 16-0 


...... 


82-4 


4- 21-0 


s 


79-7 


4- 13-1 


. 


78-2 


4- 14-2 


. 


76-5 


4- 18-5 



OCCUPATIONAL CANCER 



171 



TABLE 13. Cancer in Germany, by Organs and Parts, according 
to Occupation. Males. 























00 




9 








3 




Organ or part. 


1 

^l 


gricultur< 


Textile 
mufactui 


Common 
abonrers. 


1 


Metal 
vvorkers. 


od-worki 
industry. 


ransport. 







< 


9 








* 


H 


Bones . 


25 


21 


19 


21 


20 


30 


41 


23 


Skin . 


150 


250 


99 


140 


163 


90 


110 


112 


Respiratory organs 
Digestive organs 
Urinary organs 


20 
703 
15 


7 
642 

8 


19 

783 


16 

718 
10 


24 
703 
45 


30 
750 
30 


21 
685 
13 


14 

748 
5 


Glands . 


59 


54 


53 


56 


28 


35 


96 


70 


Breast . 


4 


1 


- 


2 


4 


15 


13 


9 


Generative organs 


24 


17 


27 


37 


13 


20 


21 


19 


Total . 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 



TABLE 14. Cancer in Germany, by Organs and Parts, according 
to Occupation. Females. 



Organ or part. 


All occupa- 
tions. 


Agriculture. 


Textile 
manufacture. 


Common 
labourers. 


I 


Restaurant, 
etc., keepers. 


I 


Domestic 
service. 


Bones . 


11 


18 


10 


11 


10 


_ 


8 


20 


Skin 


73 


151 


52 


95 


88 





116 


81 


Respiratory organs 


3 





5 


4 













Digestive organs 


306 


338 


235 


374 


311 


'244 


349 


- 323 


Urinary organs 


6 


4 


10 


4 


4 








10 


Glands 


55 


73 


26 


54 


38 


122 


16 


61 


Breast . 


243 


208 


287 


154 


374 


220 


240 


111 


Generative organs 


303 


208 


375 


304 


175 


414 


271 


394 
















* 




Total 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 



which leads tothe digestive organs succumb ing to cancer in undue 
proportion, as indicated in Table 13. The distribution of cancer, 
given in Table 14, for female textile workers may also be noted ; 
the outstanding feature is the high proportion of cancer of the 
breast and generative organs ; too little is known of the effect 
of the conditions referred to above on the female organs to 
justify any suggestion of the existence here of cause and effect ; 
but a case appears to exist for further inquiry. The female 
textile workers, although exposed to the same atmospheric 
conditions as males, appear to suffer proportionately much less 
from cancer of the digestive organs ; but as the total death rate 
for these workers is unknown it is impossible to say whether 
even this low proportion of digestive cases may not represent a 
high actual death rate. 

Agriculture, which occurs in Tables 13 and 14, is represented 



172 



CANCER AND INDUSTRY 



TABLE 15. M-ortality from Cancer, Urban and Rural, by Organs 
and Parts. United States Registration Area, 1908 12. 





Bate per 100,000 


Per mille of can- 




population. 


cer of all organs. 


Organ or part. 









Urban. 


Rural. 


Urban. 


Rural. 


Buccal cavity .... 


2-9 


2-8 


36 


41 


Stomach and liver 


31-3 


28-0 


38-4 


416 


Peritoneum, intestines and rectum 


11-2 


7-9 


137 


117 


Female generative organs . 


13-2 


8-7 


162 


130 


Breast ..... 


7-6 


6-6 


94 


98 


Skin 


2-1 


3-6 


26 


54 


Other or not specified organs 


13-0 


9-7 


161 


144 


All organs. .... 


81-3 


67-3 


1,000 


1,000 



in Table 1 2 by farmers and graziers, gardeners and nurserymen 
and farm labourers, all of whom stand low down on the list. 
This class may be taken as representative of rural conditions, 
for which, as has already been pointed out, the cancer death 
rate is lower than for towns (see also Table 15). The figures of 
Tables 13, 14 and 15 indicate an undue proportion of and a 
high death rate from cancer of the skin. Oliver states that 
" gardeners who are in the habit of sprinkling soot upon plants 
to protect them from slugs, occasionally develop cancerous 
ulceration of the hand," and the German Committee of Cancer 
Research advance the theory that cancer of the skin among 
agriculturists is the result of contact with infected earth. Both 
suggestions are combined in an idea propounded by Green (4), 
who asks whether a possible cancer parasite might not be akin 
to the myxomycetes, and points out that the ravages of plas- 
modiophora in agriculture are associated with the modern 
use of artificial manures, which have been treated with sul- 
phuric acid ; he quotes Stockhardt in evidence that pure carbon 
soot from burnt benzine has no ill effects on the leaves of plants 
such as coal soot has, and ascribes to the sulphurous compounds 
present in soot in the form of ammonium sulphate (which is 
itself largely used in agriculture) the value of soot to farmers 
and gardeners, and its injurious action on the skin. 

Apart from Green's idea that artificial manures and soot act 
as stimulants of plasmodial life, there is definite evidence 
afforded by occupation that exposure to the products of coal 
distillation and the higher hydrocarbons is associated with skin 



PRODUCTS OF DISTILLATION 173 

cancer. Thus chimney sweeps occupy an unenviable position in 
Table 12, which they have acquired owing to an extraordinary 
prevalence among them of cancer of the scrotum and skin. 
The connection between the disease and their occupation is 
undoubted ; in this country the sweep's method of work with 
use of the chimney brush brings him into contact with soot to 
an extent which has become a national bye- word " as black 
as a sweep." Abroad, where the English method is not used, 
chimney sweeps' cancer is rare ; thus, " in the United States 
sweeps' cancer is unknown ; in Belgium, where coal like the 
English coal is used, there is almost complete immunity, but 
great care is taken to prevent contact with soot ; in Germany the 
practice is to wash daily from head to foot " (1, p. 58). Further, 
the English method is being modified, greater cleanliness is 
being observed, and the cancer mortality is falling. 

Another instance of the effect of coal-distillation products 
is afforded by the manufacture and handling of pitch. Pitch is 
the residuum left after distilling off the more volatile parts from 
coal tar obtained from gasworks. The hot fluid pitch is run 
off from the stills into beds," where it solidifies on cooling ; it is 
then broken up and sent to the manufacturers of briquettes 
and patent fuel. The men who break up the pitch suffer from 
pitch warts on their hands and arms, and the warts in some 
cases become epitheliomatous. Patent fuel is made by binding 
together coal dust with pitch sufficiently warmed to make it 
plastic ; the mixture is moulded into briquettes, which, on 
cooling, become hard and are sold as fuel. The workers in this 
industry suffer in a similar way from pitch warts and epithe- 
lioma, but to a greater extent, and their exposure to the pitch is 
greater (11). 

The distillation of shale, which geologically is a form of 
coal, in order to obtain paraffin, provides another instance. 
The process is associated with the occurrence of cancer of the 
skin, known as paraffin cancer, among the shale oil workers in 
Scotland, where the shale is found. 

Cancer has also been ascribed to other coal tar products ; thus, 
where aniline, naphthylamine and their homologues and 
benzidine are made, the workers have been found to suffer from 
papillomatous growths of the bladder. 

The greater prevalence among males than among females of 
cancer of the buccal cavity (see Tables 11 and 12) also falls 
into line here, since it may be due to the male habit of smoking, 
which exposes this part of the body to the products of distilla- 
tion, not of coal, but of other vegetable matter in the form of 
tobacco. 



174 CANCER AND INDUSTRY 

These instances are sufficient to suggest that the products of 
vegetable distillation have a traumatic action on the tissues, 
which determines the incidence of cancer in the oigan or part 
of the body exposed to their influence. 

Other instances of cancer definitely recognised as being 
determined by trauma are Rontgen-ray cancer among X-ray 
operators, which affects the part exposed to the light rays ; 
cancer of the cheek among the natives of Ceylon, due to their 
habit of chewing betel nut ; and cancer of the skin of the abdo- 
men, Kangri cancer, among natives of Afghanistan, due to 
burns caused by wearing charcoal stoves for the sake of warmth. 
But such instances, the full description of which, so far as they 
occur in industry, belongs rather to a work on diseases of 
occupation, can hardly be expected to explain the general 
Increase of cancer mortality, which is too wide spread to be 
attributed in every case to some local trauma. Study of cancer, 
as it occurs in occupations, has thrown much light on the part 
played by trauma, and further information as to its distribution 
by organs and parts in different occupations would probably 
carry the study forward. More than this, occupational groups 
would probably be disclosed with divergent mortality rates, 
due to no obvious local trauma, that is to say, rates distributed 
over the various organs and parts according to a standard 
distribution. Close study of the environmental conditions of 
these groups might be expected to lay bare some of the causes 
associated with modern civilisation to which the present increase 
of cancer is due. 

The principles of investigation we advocate are of course to be 
extended beyond the limits of the class of industrially employed 
workers, and should be so extended because the increase of 
cancer mortality is not restricted to one section of the com- 
munity. As we remarked before, the aetiology of disease as 
studied by the ancient physicians was mainly what we should 
now call non-specific. The word contagion is indeed to be found 
in ancient writings, but the idea it represents in our minds is not 
older than the sixteenth century. This fact, together with a 
tendency, rightly repugnant to us, to rely upon loose analogy 
and dialectic, has led to an almost complete neglect of ancient 
medicine as affording stimuli for modern research. We are now, 
however, beginning to realise that the emphasis put upon non- 
specific factors, upon individual resisting power and upon its 
modification under stress of habits of life and exposure to the 
common assaults of environment, was not altogether a false 
emphasis. This remark applies with particular force to the 
subject of this chapter. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 175 



VII. Bibliography. 

1. Hoffman, F. L. The Mortality from Cancer throughout the 
World. The Prudential Press. New Jersey, U.S.A. 1915. (Most 
of the data used in this chapter are compiled from this useful work, 
and passages in inverted commas, with page references in brackets, 
are quoted from it.) 

2. Greenwood, M., and Wood, F. " On Changes in the Recorded 
Mortality from Cancer." Proc. Epidem. Sect. Roy. Soc. Med. 
March, 1914. 

3. Brown, J. W., and Mohan Lai. " An Inquiry into the Relation 
between Social Status and Cancer Mortality." Journal of Hygiene, 
XIV., No. 2. 1914. 

4. Green, C. E. The Cancer Problem : A Statistical Study. Edin- 
burgh. 1911. 

5. King, G., and Newsholme, A. " On the Alleged Increase of 
Cancer." Proc. Roy. Soc., LIV., p. 209. 1893. 

6. Payne, J. F. " Address on the Increase of Cancer." Hunterian 
Soc. Trans. 1899. 

7. Maynard. G. D. " A Statistical Study of Cancer Death Rates." 
Biomet, VII., pp. 278304. 190910. 

8. Matas, R. " The Surgical Peculiarities of the American 
Negro." Trans. Amer. Surg. Assn. 1896. 

9. Young, J. A. Evolution and Development of Public Health 
Administration in the City of Edinburgh. Pillans and Wilson. 
Edinburgh. 1919. 

10. Greenwood, M., and Wood, F. " The Relation between the 
Cancer and Diabetes Death Rates."- Journ. Hygiene, XIV., pp. 83 
118. 1914. 

11. O'Donovan, W. J. " Epitheliomatous Ulceration among Tar 
Workers." Brit. Journ. Dermatol. and Syph., Vol. XXXII. 1920. 



CHAPTER VIII 

CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 

I. Causation of Accidents : Industrial Accidents : The Human Factor ; 
Reaction to Environment Influences (a) Fatigue, (6) Psychical 
Influences, (c) Lighting, (d) Temperature ; The Personal Factor *; 
New Workers ; General Conclusion. II. Prevention of Accidents : 
Observation and Research : A priori Reasoning ; Administration : 
How to Minimise Risk, How to Reduce Personal Lack of Interest- 
Safety Committees, Safety First, Suggestion Box ; A Duty for the 
Medical Profession. III. Bibliography. 

I. Causation of Accidents. 

LIFE is always exposed to risk. Sometimes, as in the case of 
the diseases referred to in the foregoing chapters, the circum- 
stances which determine the risk are more or less obscure, 
although appearing to obey certain epidemiological laws ; in 
other cases the circumstances are manifest and appear to be 
avoidable. , Accidents belong to the latter class, and, since 
records of their occurrence in various industries are available, 
industrial accidents present a useful field for study. But the 
general community is liable to accidents ; professional men, 
clerks and shopkeepers, for instance, experience an accident rate 
to which for the period they are employed in factories, mines, 
quarries or railways, manual labourers are not liable. This 
" normal " accident liability should be subtracted when esti- 
mating the special liability of any industrial group to suffer from 
accidents as a result of their occupation ; it may, however, be 
disregarded when comparing various occupational groups one 
with another, as is done in Table 1. In this table and in the 
diagrams the accident mortality for age groups is compared with 
that for two diseases, phthisis and cancer. The curves repre- 
senting each of the three causes of death so far retain the same 
shape for each occupational group that after examining one 
diagram we can tell with certainty which is the accident curve, 
which the phthisis, and which the cancer ; indeed, of the three 
the phthisis curve shows the greatest variation in shape. The 
difference between the highest death rate for all ages from 
phthisis (5-62 for general labourers) and the lowest (1'02 for 
South Wales coal miners) is 4 '6 ; and this suggests that if we 
could, so far as phthisis is concerned, place general labourers in 
the position of South Wales miners, we should reduce their 
mortality per 1,000 by 4 '6. The difference between the highest 



MORTALITY DATA 



177 



TABLE 1. The Mortality of Males in Several Occupations, 
190002. Occupied and Retired Males. Rate per 1,000 
Years of Life. 



s 


Years of 
life. 


Cause. 


Ages. 


15. 


20. 


25. 


35. 


45. 


55. 


65 am 
over. 


All 
ages. 


(58) Nail, anchor, chain 


660,372 


Accident 


42 


32 


51 


59 


96 


1-94 


2-74 


73 


and other steel and 




Phthisis 


51 


1-20 


2-04 


2-79 


3-59 


2-41 


2-08 


2-07 


iron manufacturers. 




Cancer. 


01 


03 


07 


44 


1-46 


3-63 


8-32 


87 


(53) Engine, machine, 


1,054,128 


Accident 


34 


38 


33 


63 


69 


1-17 


1 15 


52 


boilermakers, fitters, 




Phthisis 


60 


1-74 


1-87 


2-36 


2-74 


2-58 


1-61 


1-86 


millwrights. 




Cancer. 


04 


02 


07 


37 


1-30 


3-79 


6-59 


71 


(48) Shoemakers 


592,665 


Accident 


10 


09 


16 


26 


43 


63 


1-33 


36 






Phthisis 


1-04 


2-95 


3-27 


4-41 


4-40 


3-21 


2-15 


3-18 






Cancer 


03 


09 


11 


39 


1-57 


3-81 


6-80 


1-35 


(47) Tailors 


415,530 


Accident 


14 


13 


18 


23 


73 


61 


2-08 


42 






Phthisis 


76 


2-11 


2-64 


4-12 


4-22 


3-43 


1-79 


2-82 






Cancer 


06 


05 


08 


44 


1-55 


445 


7-19 


1-23 


(45) Bakers, confec- 


305,712 


Accident 


15 


18 


30 


44 


40 


51 


1-55 


37 


tioners. 




Phthisis 


37 


1-54 


1-90 


2-53 


2-80 


2-30 


1-34 


1-80 






Cancer 


02 


04 


11 


47 


1-44 


4-14 


6-57 


89 


(43) Butchers . 


327,162 


Accident 


11 


14 


25 


49 


76 


1-29 


1-74 


42 






Phthisis 


21 


62 


2-03 


3-04 


3-04 


2-28 


1-19 


1-74 






Cancer 


05 




07' 


33 


1-52 


4-50 


7-90 


83 


(40) Printers . 


280,008 


Accident 


25 


15 


14 


14 


45 


82 


2-16 


28 






Phthisis 


1-03 


3-45 


3-65 


5-13 


4-34 


3-68 


1-87 


3-38 






Cancer 




02 


13 


31 


1-38 


3-68 


6-19 


58 


(95) General labourers. 


1,281,000 


Accident 


71 


95 


1-22 


1-62- 


2-07 


2-48 


3-64 


1-68 






Phthisis 


1-11 


3-30 


5-26 


8-06 


8-36 


6-72 


3-78 


5-62 






Cancer 


04 


10 


18 


78 


2-77 


6-56 


11-52 


2-32 


(88) Miners 


1,943,046 


Accident 


1-19 


1-18 


1-23 


1-62 


2-08 


2-68 


3-20 


1-54 






Phthisis 


42 


1-02 


1-04 


1-22 


1-72 


2-36 


1-85 


1-16 






Cancer 


01 


05 


11 


33 


1-04 


2;"89 


5-64 


56 


(83f) Coal miners (Mon. 
and S. Wales). 


426,261 


Accident 
Phthisis 


1-62 
35 


1-74 
90 


1-84 
95 


2-25 
1-20 


2-67 
1-43 


3-65 
2-34 


5-19 
1-44 


2-10 
1-02 






Cancer 




05 


08 


24 


1-11 


2-39 


4-90 


40 


(83) Coal miners 


1,856,196 


Accident 


1-20 


1-19 


1-23 


1-64 


2-13 


2-74 


3-30 


1-55 






Phthisis 


41 


1-03 


96 


1-09 


1-52 


2-04 


1-47 


1-05 






Cancer 


01 


05 


11 


33 


1-05 


2-85 


5-48 


55 


(17) Seamen . . 


312,528 


Accident 


3-79 


3-26 


3-05 


4-15 


4-02 


3-51 


1-99 


3-47 






Phthisis 


85 


3-10 


3-80 


3-80 


3-98 


2-71 


1-42 


3-22 






Cancer 




07 


20 


75 


2-39 


5-10 


9-07 


1-65 


(18) Dock and wharf 


270,594 


Accident 


54 


70 


1-15 


1-27 


1-81 


2-38 


3-64 


1-43 


labourers 




Phthisis 


42 


1-67 


3-21 


4-93 


5-68 


4-08 


3-06 


3-83 






Cancer 






10 


52 


1-75 


3-81 


6-32 


1-09 


(92) Platelayers, navvy, 


510,099 


Accident 


1-12 


iTl 


1-04 


1-14 


1-47 


2-04 


2-43 


1-37 


railway and road 




Phthisis 


22 


1-07 


91 


1-36 


1-82 


1-71 


79 


1-23 


labourers 




Cancer 


04 


03 


09 


33 


91 


2-85 


5-01 


98 


(72) Wool, worsted 


238,758 


Accident 


13 


20 


12 


23 


54 


88 


2-33 


40 


manufacturers. 




Phthisis 


69 


2-38 


1-81 


2-26 


2-89 


2-35 


1-88 


1-98 






Cancer 




.17 


. .16 


59 


1-13 


3-27 


9-92 


1-18 


(28) Stationery manu- 
facturers, stationers, 


149,718 


Accident 
Phthisis 


04 

98 


.20 
2-49 


13 

2-84 


35 
3-29 


28 
3-51 


79 
2-04 


1-26 
1-01 


31 
2-53 


newsagents, publishers. 




Cancer 




0-5 


11 


28 


1-23 


3-93 


5-18 


87 



and lowest ^eath rates from accidents is 3 -2 ; and from cancer 
2-0. The mortality from accidents is, then, as worthy of 
attention as that from these two important diseases ; it is as 
definite a statistical entity, and its reduction would have an 
effect upon the total occupational death rate similar in magnitude 
to that of reducing the disease death rates. 

Industrial Accidents. 

The prevalence of accidents in this country has received close 
attention in two groups of workers, those employed in factories, 
and those employed in mines and quarries. The official figures 



178 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 



J 

7 

6 
ACCIDENTS 
PHTHISIS 
^ < CANCER. 


/ 


f 


.' 


fc ,-"-"" 

^ 

/ 
/ 
/ 

... ~^_^,. > ^- 


X s .-' 

.- /x ^^. 


15- 20- 26- 35- 
/t/Lf -e>re inn < 


-W-- 5.5- 6^- 
/9/V/J OK/^ 



FIG. 10. Shoemakers, No. 48. 



ACCIDENTS 

PHTHISIS 

e CANCER. 




15- 20- 26- 35- 

AGE-PER.IOD5 

FIG. 11. Printers, No. 40, 



- 65- 

AND OVER. 



OCCUPATIONAL MORTALITY 



179 



. ACCIDENTS 
. PHTHISIS 
. CANCER 




FIG. 12. Butchers, No. 43. 



55- 65- 

AND OYEK. 



ACCIDENTS 

PHTHISIS 

CANCER. 



- 20- zs- 



A&E-PERJODS 



65- 65- 

AND OVER. 



FIG. 13. Wool, Worsted Manufacturers, No, 72. 



180 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 



PHTHISIS 

CANCER. 



Jtf 



^5. 



.5.5* 6^5- 

AND 



IS- 30- 26- 

FIG. 14. Engine, Machine, Boilermakers, Fitters, Millwrights, No. 53 



-2 



ACCIDENTS 

PHTHI3IS 

CANCER. 



15- 1O- 2S- 



35- 
,- PERIODS 



6J5- 
AND OYER, 



FIG. 15. Coal Miners, No. 83. 



MINING ACCIDENTS 



181 



published from year to year show that accidents recur with a 
frequency as regular as the occurrence of disease ; even when 
grouped according to the causes which contribute to the gross 
total, the groups are found maintaining from year to year a 
definite relation to the total accident rate (see Table 2) ; just as 

TABLE 2. Accident Death Rates due to Mining in the United 

Kingdom. 



Period. 


Death rate per 1,000 persons employed. 


Total 
accident 
death 
rate per 
million 
tons of 
mineral 
raised. 


Underground, caused by 


Above 
ground. 
All 

causes. 


Under 
and 
above 
ground. 


Explo- 
sions. 


Falls of 
ground. 


Shaft 
acci- 
dents. 


Miscella- 
neous. 



In and about Mines under the Coal Mines Acts. 



18731882 


0-65 


1-12 


0-32 


0-47 


,0-92 


2-24 


7-42 


18831892 


0-32 


1-00 


0-19 


0-50 


0-96 


1-81 


5-65 


1893 1902 


0-18 


0-76 


0-13 


0-45 


0-83 


1-39 


4-70 


19031912 


0-17 


0-74 


0-11 


0-44 


0-78 


1-33 


4-76 



In and about Mines under the Metalliferous Mines Regulation Acts. 



18731882 




0-94 


0-72 


0-68 


058 


1-62 




1883 1892 


0-02 


0-94 


052 


0-67 


0-39 


1-44 





18931902 





0-83 


0-44 


0-69 


0-38 


1-31 





19031912 




0-93 


0-41 


0-53 


0-47 


1-30 






Compiled from Annual Report of Chief Inspector of Mines for 1913 
(Cd. 7,452). 



TABLE 3. Non-fatal Accidents due to Mining which Disabled 
for more than Seven Days. 



Occupation. 


Year. 


Number. 


Per cent, 
injured. 


Employed. 


Injured. 


Coal mining 


1912 
1913 


1,089,090 
1,127,890 


150,652 
177,189 


13-8 
15-6 


Metalliferous mining . 


1912 
1913 


28,058 
27,412 


1,650 
1,773 


5-5 
6-5 



Compiled from Annual Report of Chief Inspector of Mines for 1913 



182 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 



the mortality from cancer or phthisis for any portion of the 
community from year to year maintains a definite relation to the 
total death rate. The number sustaining injuries, like the number 
accidentally killed in any group, varies from year to year in a 
similar way, and not according to random chance (see Table 3) ; 
and when the tendency of the accident rate experienced in any 
industry to rise, to fall, or remain constant is known for several 
years the rate to be anticipated in the future may be expected 
to belong to the same numerical series. Nor does this regularity 
apply only to the number of accidents and to their distribution 
according to causation, it applies also to the liability of various 
parts of the body to sustain injuries (see Table 4).* 

TABLE 4. Accidents in Factories and Workshops (reported 
upon by Certifying Surgeons). 





1907. 


1913. 


Degree of injury. 


Number. 


Per cent. 


Number. 


Per cent. 


Loss of right hand or arm . 


89 


0-2 


$8 


0-2 


Loss of left hand or arm . 


62 


0-1 


73 


0-1 


Loss of part of right hand . 


1,831 


4-2 


1,938 


3-3 


Loss of part of left hand . 


1,658 


3-8 


1,841 


3-2 


Loss of part of leg or foot . 


132 


0-3 


119 


0-2 


Fracture of limb or of bones of 










trunk .... 


1,059 


2-4 


1,018 


1-7' 


Fracture of hand or foot . 


902 


2-1 


943 


2-1 


Loss of sight of one or both eyes . 


64 


0-2 


105 


0-2 


Other injury to eyes. 


1,902 


4-4 


2,518 


4-3 


Injury to head or face 


3,263 


7-5 


2,985 


5-1 


Burn or scald . . . 


5,823 


13-4 


8,832 


15-2 


Wounds, bruises and other in- 










juries not specified above . 


25,514 


58-7 


36,410 


62-6 


Fatal .... 


1,179 


2-7 


1,309 


2-3 


Total . 


43,478 


100-0 


58,179 


100-0 



Compiled from Annual Reports of Chief Inspector of Factories for 1907 
and 1913. 

* While the information embodied in Table 4 refers to operatives 
employed in factories and workshops, and not like that of Tables 2 and 3 
to miners, there can be no reasonable doubt that the distribution of miners' 
accidents according to the parts affected would be found to be similarly 
regular ; no information, however, is published on this matter. Similarly 
no information is published giving the accident rate per 1,000 employed 
in factories and workshops ; but, while no suggestion can be hazarded 
with regard to this latter group of accidents as to whether the rate has been 
increasing or decreasing, here also the probability is that the rate has 
varied, as it has among miners, in a regular way. The tables contain no 
data which refer to the war period, because from 1914 onwards the stress 
of work and the distribution of workers has so varied from what prevailed 
before that time that for the study of the incidence of accidents, as for the 
incidence of disease, statistics from 1914 onwards cannot be considered as 
comparable with those of previous years. 



THE HUMAN FACTOR 



183 



The statistical regularity of accident data, which would 
appear to be comparable with those referring to the occurrence 
of disease, raises the question as to whether the causes that lead 
up to accidents depend merely on random chance, or, in other 
words, whether the majority of accidents are really accidents 
in the sense of being to use a legal phrase " acts of God." 

The Human Factor. A glance at a table stating the causation 
of accidents immediately indicates the importance of the 
human factor. Thus, in Table 5, if the ill-defined group " other 
causes " be subtracted from the total, there remain 116,209 
fatal and non-fatal accidents, of which 58,804 (i.e., over 50 per 
cent.) were caused by (a) machinery not moved by mechanical 
power, (b) falling bodies, (c) persons falling, and (d) tools in 
use. This group may be sajd to be in the main caused directly 
by human agency and to be under the control of individual 
workers. Many accidents in the other groups also are the result 
of direct action by the workers who expose themselves or their 
comrades through thoughtlessness or carelessness to contact 
with moving machinery or hot liquid. 

TABLE 5. Accidents in Factories and Workshops, 1913. 



Causation. 


Number of 


Injuries. 


Fatalities. 


Machinery moved by mechanical power 


47,177 


421 


Molten metal, hot liquid .... 


7,306 


26 


Explosion ...... 


870 


33 


Escape of gas or steam .... 


1,021 


36 


Electricity ...... 


496 


19 


( Cranes . 


736 


18 


Machinery not moved by ) Presses for 






mechanical power S metal articles 


394 





( Other . 


843 


2 


Struck by falling body .... 


27,497 


131 


Persons falling. ..... 


21,637 


445 


Struck by tools in use .... 


7.096 


5 


Other causes . ... 


61J79 


173 


Total 


176,852 


1,309 



Compiled from Annual Report of Chief Inspector of Factories for 1913. 



Thus Bellhouse (5), after stating that from factories and 
workshops during 1918 " notices were received of 1,579 fatal 



184 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 



cases, of 53,491 accidents due to machinery, and of 108,663 
non-machinery cases," divides accidents under two headings, 
(1) machinery accidents and those preventable by safeguards, 
and (2) non-machinery accidents and accidents not due to want 
of fencing, and he goes on to point out as regards machinery 
accidents, " that it has been the experience of the inspectors that, 
even in these cases, not more than 35 per cent, have been due 
to the absence of a guard, the remainder being attributed largely 
to such causes as negligence, carelessness, want of thought, and 
perhaps, more than all, to Jack of proper appreciation of the 
danger." The same authority has also said (22) that " however 
well machinery is guarded we cannot look for more than 10 per 
cent, reduction in the accident rate by the provision of safe- 
guards alone. This is rather a startling fact which is not gener- 
ally recognised, but it is interesting to note that our experience 
here corresponds exactly with that in America, and that they too 
estimate 10 per cent, to be the maximum reduction of accidents 
obtainable by better safeguarding of machinery." 

TABLE 6. Shaft Accidents in Factories. 



Employment. 


1908. 


1909. 


Fatal. 


Non-fatal. 


Fatal. 


Non-fatal. 


Oiling bearings, pulleys, or clutches 
Putting belts on pulleys 


2 
10 


34 
36 


6 

9 


44 
36 


Taking belts off pulleys 


1 


4 


1 


5 


Adjusting belts, pulleys, etc. . 


1 


24 


2 


14 


Holding belts during repairs . 
Examining shafting, pulleys, etc. . 


5 
1 


6 
4 


2 


8 
4 


Beaching over unfenced shafting . 


3 


29 


6 


17 


Cleaning shafting in motion . 


1 


16 


1 


15 


Cleaning under or near shafting 


1 


19 





15 


Other occasional work near shaft- 










ing : 










Cleaning windows . 


1 


9 





3 


Electric wiring 


1 


1 


3 


Erecting piping or machinery 
Joinery or building 


1 
1 


10 

1 


3 


9 
6 


Limewashing walls or ceilings 


6 


7 


2 


2 


Painting walls or ceilings 





4 


2 


3 


Other .... 


11 





2 


4 


Stepping under or over shafting 


3 


6 





7 


Attending machines 





21 


1 


17 


Larking .... 


1 


9 





2 


Falls of overhead shafting 


1 


9 





13 


Miscellaneous 


4 


27 


4 


6 


Total .... 


44 


287 


41 


233 








1 



From Report on Fencing and Safety Precautions for Transmission 
Machinery. W. S. Smith. H.M. Stationery Office, 1913. 



THE HUMAN FACTOR 



185 



TABLE 7. Shaft Accidents in Factories. Severity of 
Injuries. 



Nature of injury. 


1908. 


1909. 


Fatal 


44 


41 


Severe : 






Arm fractured .... 


30 


29 


Arm amputated . 


6 


8 


Foot fractured . 


1 





Foot amputated .... 





2 


Hand amputated 





1 


Leg fractured .... 


6 


7 


Ribs fractured .... 


8 


9 


Scalp torn off 


8 


5 


Shoulder fractured 


10 


3 


Skull fractured . . . 


4 





Spine fractured . 
Thigh fractured .... 


6 


1 

4 


Other lacerations and contusions . 


47 


39 


Slight . 


161 


125 


Total 


331 


274 



From Report on Fencing and Safety Precautions for Trans- 
mission Machinery. W. S. Smith. H.M. Statipnery Office, 
1913. 

One group of accidents provides an instance in point, viz., 
those occurring from revolving shafting. Here, says Mr. W. 
Sydney Smith (6), "the same type of accidents recur year after 
year, due chiefly to workers coming into contact with mill- 
gearing in motion when oiling bearings, adjusting belts, cleaning 
shafting, limewashing ceilings, or performing other work in the 
vicinity of revolving shafts " (see Table 6). Practically all shaft 
accidents follow upon direct action by the workers, in contrast 
to injuries of indirect causation due to, say, the sudden breaking 
of a belt, over which the worker concerned has no control, 
and the table indicates that " fully 60 per cent, of the accidents 
were due to work being carried on in the immediate vicinity of 
mill -gearing in motion." Smith in this connection writes, " The 
fact is generally overlooked that the worker's clothing is liable 
to be seized if sufficiently long and loose to allow a portion of the 
garment to wrap once round the shaft ; the presence of tacky 
oil on the shaft in the neighbourhood of bearings increases the 
clangers. Even on a smooth shaft, in such cases, the worker will 
probably be caught and carried round by the revolving shaft 



186 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 



unless the garment gives way and releases him. Loose hair, 
also, on account of its lightness is extremely liable to become 
wound on revolving shafting, possibly owing to cyclonic move- 
ment of the currents of air set up in the vicinity of the shaft, 
and, if the hair is caught, a portion or the whole of the scalp is 
usually torn off. In 1908 and 1909, 56 per cent, and 60 per 
cent, respectively of the reported shafting accidents were due 
to contact of either loose clothing, loose hair, or cleaning rags, 
with revolving parts of mill-gearing." He goes on to say that 
" over twenty persons injured on high shafting had climbed on 
tables or work benches, seventeen were standing on machinery 
and sixteen on planks, boxes, stools or temporary stages within 
reach of shafting. Insecure footing on beams, walls, window- 
sills and piping was responsible for nine accidents, while three 
occurred to persons climbing over goods piled near overhead 
shafting." The severity of the accidents which resulted is 
shown in Table 7, from which it will be seen that eighty -five out 
of 605 were fatal, or 16 per cent., as compared with 0'9 per 
cent, for all accidents due to machinery in motion (see Table 5). 
The standard of notification is the same in each class of accidents, 
and so the percentage of fatalities is strictly comparable. Here 
is a group of accidents particularly severe in degree, and recurring 
year after year, although they are entirely under the control of 
the personal factor. 

TABLE 8. Eye Injuries among Granite Dressers. 



Character of injury. 


Aberdeen Eye 
Institution, 1st 
July, 1908, to 
30th June, 
1909. 


Aberdeen 
Royal In- 
firmary, 
1st Jan. to 
31st Dec., 
1910. 


Total for 
twelve 
months. 


Foreign bodies in, and abrasions of, the eye 
Septic ulcers. 


580 
43 


142 
5 


722 

48 




(28 cases 








cauterised) 






Traumatic cataracts 


2 


2 


4 




(lens 








extracted) 






Foreign bodies in ciliary region 


2 





2 




(globes 
enucleated) 






Dislocated lens . . 


1 


3 


4 


Corneal wounds ... 


17 


2 


19 


Corneal nebulae . . 





4 


4 


Other injuries . ... 





6 


(i 


All injuries .... 


645 


164 


809 



From Report of Royal Commission on Metalliferous Mines and Quarries. 
Vol. III. Minutes of Evidence, p. 67. (Cd. 7,478.) 



EYE ACCIDENTS 187 

Another group of industrial accidents eye injuries entirely 
under the control of the workers, has been investigated, espe- 
cially by one of us (7) in the stone-cutting industry. 'Eye 
injuries account for less than 5 per cent, of all industrial accidents 
(see Table 4), but in this industry the percentage is much higher ; 
thus, in the Operative Masons' Society of England and Wales in 
the ten years, 190211, a sum of 10,825 was paid in com- 
pensation for illness, of which 829, i.e., 7*7 per cent., was on 
account of injury to eyes. The injuries are caused by particles 
flying from the tool or the stone as the mason or his neighbour 
applies mallet and chisel or the pneumatic tool. Inquiry in the 
granite industry in Aberdeen, where pneumatic tools are largely 
used, revealed that over 800 granite dressers out of a total of 
about 1,700 employed, i.e., nearly 50 per cent., are known to 
have sought medical aid in one year on account of eye injuries 
more or less severe (see Table 8). The excessive prevalence of 
this type of injury among these men is further borne testimony 
to by the payments for compensation of an important insurance 
company ; during three years, 1908 10, the amount paid out 
in respect of claims for eye injuries was nearly exactly equal to 
that paid out for all other injuries put together. These injuries 
(called by the men " fires " in the eye) are practically entirely 
preventable by the wearing of suitable goggles ; the glass of 
goggles, however, in a few weeks becomes frosted from the 
frequent impact of particles and requires renewal. The men 
prefer to run the risk rather than take this small trouble, and 
men are to be seen at work, who have already lost the sight of 
one eye, still declining to wear goggles. Parsons, with his wide 
experience at Moorfields in London, tells (10) the same story of 
the prevalence of avoidable eye injuries. " If one reckons up 
the loss of the workmen's time entailed and the consequent loss 
of money to employers and the State, the total is enormous. In 
many hospitals it is customary to put a drop of atropine in the 
eye after removing a foreign body from the cornea. This must 
in most cases mean several days away from work. Certainly 
all emery-wheel cases and they are the vast majority could 
be avoided by the simple precaution of using protective goggles. 
Even when they are provided by the employers the men will 
not use them." 

Apart from natural conservatism, which stands in the way of 
the adoption of a new habit, and from the fascination notwith- 
standing the proverb to the contrary the burnt child has for 
fire, there are inconveniences associated with the wearing of 
protective goggles. These are minimised if the following prin- 
ciples are attended to in design : Eye guards to be effective 



188 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 

(i.) should prevent particles from reaching the eyes from in 
front, from either side, and from below, the eyebrows naturally 
guard the eye from particles coming from above ; (ii.) should 
be light and comfortable, and allow free play of air so that 
moisture does not condense on the transparent medium ; 
(iii.) should not impede vision, or become obscured by impact of 
particles ; and (iv.) should be strong and cheap. 

The fact that no particles are likely to enter from above is 
important, because the upper part of the goggle may be left 
open and so allow of ventilation. A closed screen not only 
becomes hot and uncomfortable, but the transparent medium, 
usually glass, may be obscured by condensation of moisture. 
Where fine work has to be executed there must be clear vision, 
and for this purpose no medium is better than glass. The 
objectipn has been raised that glass broken by a flying particle 
may be driven into the eye and cause a worse injury than if it 
were not present. Injuries to eyes by glasses or spectacles 
broken by a foreign body are rare. Such an accident is quite 
exceptional ; a considerable -sized foreign body would be neces- 
sary to inflict it, and the damage to the eye would probably not 
be less if no spectacles or protecting glass were in use. An 
American shop bulletin states that "in no instance was an eye 
even slightly injured by flying glass where the lens was broken 
by a flying chip." The main objection to glass, or indeed to any 
other transparent medium, is that after a time it becomes 
pitted and obscured. For this reason eye-guards should be so 
made that the glass can be easily removed and cleaned or 
replaced (13). 

Two forms of eye-guard designed to meet the requirements 
stated above are here illustrated ; the first has the advantage 
that spectacles needed to correct any error of refraction can be 
worn behind it (14). 

Where there is exposure to bright light, as in the process of 
acetylene welding, the glass of the goggles should be tinted or 
specially prepared to obscure the chemically active rays at or 
beyond the violet end of the spectrum, otherwise troublesome 
irritation and conjunctivitis result (15). 

This simple examination of accident data supports the view 
that industrial accidents are largely dependent upon the per- 
sonality of the workers, and represent reaction to environment. 
Careful examination of a large number of accident reports has 
led to the estimate that from 60 to 80 per cent, of all industrial 
accidents are due to mistakes under the control of the workers, 
rather than to agencies outside their control, such as breakages 
of machinery, escapes of gas and explosions. Many even of 



EYE ACCIDENTS 



189 



the latter group of accidents have to be attributed to human 
carelessness in erecting plant and in keeping it in order. We 
are thus driven to the conclusions that (i.) the bulk of indus- 
trial accidents are not due to random chance, but are representa- 
tive of the reaction of the workers, and that (ii.) accident 





FIG. 16. 

Reproduced from Second Report of Royal Commission 
on Metalliferous Mines and Quarries (14). 

frequency may possibly be employed for investigating this 
reaction. 

Recognition of the first of these conclusions is to be found in 
the steps now being taken to interest the workers in their own 
safety, which are considered later under the heading of Pre- 
vention of Accidents. 

Reaction to Environmental Influences. If the second con- 
clusion holds good, then influences, such as hours of work, 



190 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 



variations in 'lighting, temperature and ventilation, which 
affect the activity and health of workers should influence the 
incidence of accidents. Accidents of the severity of those 
already instanced do not, fortunately, occur with sufficient 
frequency in any industrial establishment to provide material 
for intensive investigations, but the recent introduction of. 
ambulance stations into factories, where minor cuts and scratches 
as well as more serious injuries are treated and recorded, has 
provided the required data. Degree only separates minor 
from major injuries ; a falling body may fatally injure the head 
or slightly bruise the foot ; a flying shuttle may destroy an eye 
or graze an arm ; a circular saw may as quickly abrade the skin 
as remove half of a hand. Previous to the installation of ambu- 
lance rooms no information as to the frequency of minor injuries 
was available, but now each ambulance room provides a large 
mass of data for examination. 

Vernon (8) has made use of the records of minor injuries thus 
provided at factories engaged on the production of munitions of 
war. His inquiries in the first place support the view that the 
frequency of accidents varies directly with the amount of risk, 
i.e., the greater the output the higher the accident rate. He found 
that "the incidence of accidents showed a qualitative resemblance 
to the output variations, and . . . that varying speed of pro- 
duction is the factor largely responsible for the day shift varia- 
tions of accidents in men, and not fatigue. Even in women 
fatigue is only of moderate importance as a rule. . . . The 

TABLE 9. Relationship between Accidents in Fatigue Period 
(Seventy-five Hours Week), and in Subsequent Period (Ten 
Hours Day). 



Type of accident. 


Ratio of accident- 
frequency in 
fatigue period to 
tha^n siibsequeut 
r period. 


Ratio of afternoon accidents to 
morning accidents. 


Fatigue period. 


Subsequent period. 


Men. 


Women. 


Men. 


Women. 


Men. 


Women. 


Cuts . 
Foreign bodies in eye 
Burns 
Sprains 
Previous injuries 


1-14 
0-65 
1-16 
1-27 
1-43 


2-73 
2-09 
3-50 
2-95 
3-01 


1-07 
0-90 
1-31 
0-92 
0-46 


1-45 
1-51 
1-29 
0-72 

0-82 


1-08 
0-98 
0-76 
0-63 
0-59 


1-17 

1-67 
1-12 

0-80 
0-53 


Weighted mean 


1-20 


2-87 


1-06 


1-29 


1-00 


Ml 



From " An Investigation of the Factors concerned in the Causation of 
Industrial Accidents." H. M. Vernon. Health of Munition Workers 
Committee. Memo. No. 21. 1918. (Cd. 9,046.) 



FATIGUE AND ACCIDENTS 



191 



diurnal variations of accidents . . . generally corresponded 
with the output variations, as both rose to a maximum in the 
middle of the week and declined at the end of it. The monthly 
variations of accidents . . . corresponded with output varia- 
tions, for the accidents increased gradually about 40 per 
cent., whilst the hourly output at the same time increased 
30 per cent." He then traced the secondary effects of other 
influences : 

TABLE 10. Ratio of Night-shift Accidents to Day-shift 

Accidents. 





Men. 




Factory A. 


Factory C. 








Type of accident. 














First 
period. 


Second 
period. 


63* 

hours 
weekly. 


54 
hours 
weekly. 


Factory 
B. 


Factory 
D. 


Mean. 


Cuts. 


0-94 


0-85 


0-82 


0-74 


0*81 


0-76 


0-82 


Foreign bodies in eye 


1-46 


1-32 


0-87 


0-91 


0-77 


1-09 


1-07 


Burns 


1-43 


1-43 


0-89 


0-40 


0-59 


0-96 


0-95 


Sprains 


0-85 


1-19 


1-02 


1-22 


0-89 


0-78 


0-99 


Previous injuries 


0-65 


0-87 


0-74 


1-31 


0-71 


0-59 


0-81 


Weighted mean 


0-92 


0-94 


0-83 


0-80 


0-78 


0-81 


0-85 



Women. 



Cuts . 


0-82 


0-76 




0-74 


0-88 




0-80 


Foreign bodies in eye 


1-30 


1-58 





1-09 


1-11 





1-27 


Burns 


1-09 


0-83 





0-72 


0-88 





0-88 


Sprains 


0-95 


1-00 





1-17 


0-76 





0-97 


Previous injuries 


0-64 


0-87 





0-89 


0-57 





0-74 


Weighted mean 


0-88 


0-85 





0-80 


0-83 





0-84 



From " An Investigation of the Factors concerned in the Causation of 
Industrial Accidents." H. M. Vernon. Health of Munition Workers 



Committee. Memo. No. 21. 1918. (Cd. 9,046.) 



" Fatigue. The influence of fatigue on accidents to women 
was strikingly shown . . . when the operatives were working a 
twelve -hour day, or seventy -five hours week. The women's 
accidents were two-and-a-half times more numerous than in the 
subsequent ten-hour day period, but the men's accidents showed 
no difference (see Table 9). Also the women were treated for 
faintness nine times more frequently than the men, and were 
given sal -volatile twenty-three times more frequently, whereas 
in the subsequent ten-hour day period they were treated for 



192 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 

TABLE 11. Wtomeri's Night Accidents compared with Morning 

Accidents. 



Type of accident. 


Ratio of night-shift accidents to 
morning-shift accidents. 


Factory C. 


Factory D. 


Mean. 


Cuts . 
Foreign bodies in eye 
Burns .... 
Sprains. 
Previous injuries . 


0-71 
1-29 
1-18 
0-92 
0-9'4 


0-80 
0-98 
0-86 
0-80 
0-58 


0-76 
1-14 
1-02 

0-86 
0-76 


Weighted mean 


0-83 


0-82 


0-83 



From " An Investigation of the Factors concerned in the Causation of 
Industrial Accidents." H. M. Vernon. Health of Munition Workers 
Committee. Memo. No. 21. 1918. (Cd. 9,046.) 



TABLE 12. Accidents per Spell in relation to Outside 
Temperature. 



Average number of cuts in each spell. 



jiixternai tem- 
perature. 
Degrees 


Factory B. 


Factory C. 


Fahrenheit 








Women. * 


Men.* 


Women. * 


Men.* 


32 or less 


2-84 


3-77 


1-72 


4-16 


3337 . 


2-12 


2-88 


1-53 


3-64 


3842 . 


1-96 


2-64 


1-38 


3-00 


4347 . 


1-55 


2-44 


1-28 


3-33 


48 or over 


1-17 


1-76 


1-16 


2-99 



From "An Investigation of the Factors concerned in 
the Causation of Industrial Accidents." H. M. Vernon. 
Health of Munition Workers Committee. Memo. No. 21. 
1918. (Cd. 9,046.) 

faintness and given sal- volatile only three times more frequently." 
Vernon gives data, not reproduced here, to justify this state- 
ment, and when discussing them points out that " in both 
sexes the cases rapidly increased during the morning spell, and 

* No comparison should be instituted between the relative number of 
cuts at the two factories, or among women and men, as the processes 
concerned were different in both instances. 



INFLUENCE OF ENVIRONMENT 193 

reached a maximum in the last hour or the penultimate hour, 
just as the accidents did. In the afternoon spell they were 
relatively much less numerous than in the morning, the ratio 
between the morning and afternoon cases treated in full working 
hours being in women as 1 to 0'43 for the fatigue period and 
as 1 to ( 68 in the subsequent period, whilst in men it was as 
1 to 0'75 and 1 to 0'96 in the respective periods. It will be 
remembered that accidents were almost always more numerous 
in the afternoon than in the morning, ratios of 1 to 1 "29 and 
1 to 1 '11 being observed in women. There can be little doubt 
that the smaller proportion of faintness cases observed in the 
afternoon was chiefly due to the workers getting a good dinner 
in the 12 to 1 break, in contrast with the inadequate breakfast 
they often partook of before the morning spell of work. 

" In the night-shift the distribution of the faintness cases 
resembled that of the accident cases, except that the maximum 
occurred in the second hour of the first spell instead of the first 
hour. The relative proportions of the cases in the three spells 
likewise resemble those observed in accidents. This is to be 
expected, for the night-shift would not suffer from the disability 
of inadequate food before starting work. However, the night- 
shift conditions taken as a whole, appear to upset nutrition 
considerably in comparison with day-shift conditions, as the 
proportion of faintness cases treated by night was half as great 
again as those treated by day, both in the men and the women. 

" Psychical Influences. At the factories the night-shift 
workers suffered fewer accidents than the day-shift workers, 
the average defect being 16 per cent. This was not due to the 
output being smaller, as ... it was distinctly bigger by night 
than by day. It was psychical in origin, and due to the night- 
shift workers settling down to a calmer mental state than the 
day-shift workers, and so becoming less careless and inattentive. 
The psychical factor is one of the most important in accident 
causation. (See Tables 10 and 11.) 

" Lighting. Accidents due to foreign bodies in the eye were 
7 to 27 per cent, more numerous in the night-shift than in the 
day-shift, though all the other accidents were considerably less 
numerous. This was due to the artificial lighting, as the excess 
of eye accidents was most marked in the worst lit factory. (See 
Tables 10 and 11.) 

'' l Temperature. The temperature . . . was recorded con- 
tinuously for six months by means of a thermograph. Accidents 
were at a minimum at 65 to 69 F., and increased rapidly at 
higher temperatures (e.g., by 30 per cent, at temperatures above 
75 F.), and slowly at lower temperatures. Continuous records 



194 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 

were obtained of 'the external temperature of the town, . . . and 
it was found that . . . the accidents increased considerably as 
the weather grew colder, and diminished as it grew warmer. In 
one factory the women's accidents were nearly -two and a half 
times more numerous when the temperature was at or below 
freezing point than when it was above 47 F., whilst the men's 
accidents were twice as numerous." (See Table 12.) 

The figures given show that, if the mean frequency of accidents 
when the temperature within the factory was from 65 tx> 69 F. 
be taken as 100, then the relative frequency at a temperature of 
60 to 64 F. was 103, and at 59 or less it was 108 ; while at 70 
to 74 it was 121, and at 75 or over 130. Data showing the 
number of cuts in relation- to the external temperature are quoted 
in Table 12. External temperature, as well as that prevailing, 
due to means of heating, within the factory, calls for considera- 
tion, as a proportion of accidents treated at ambulance stations 
result from work done in the open air, while others are uncon- 
nected with factory work, such as bicycle accidents, cuts sus- 
tained at home arid during meals at the canteen, and scalds 
from tea-making ; thus at one factory Vernon found that, out 
of 235 accidents treated among men and 251 among women, 
77 and 80 respectively were not connected with work. 

The conclusions drawn, so far, point to accidents occurring 
with a regularity of frequency similar to that of disease, to the 
frequency being dependent mainly on the human factor, and to 
its being affected by environmental conditions in the same way 
that these conditions affect human activity and sickness. 

Vernon' s conclusion that, given moderate length of hours and 
a reasonable arrangement of shifts, speed of production is the 
chief factor of accident causation has been criticised (21, p. 139 
et seq.). The investigators provide curves showing the ratio of 
accidents to production throughout the shift and find that this 
ratio increases towards the end of the shift ; hence they infer 
that fatigue is the prime setiological factor. The data utilised 
are, in our opinion, inadequate, because no allowance has been 
made for the fact that a large proportion of the operatives whose 
accidents and output were averaged were inexperienced. The 
statement that this circumstance does not affect the argument, 
" For the factor of inexperience, whether large or small, is always 
present, and whether large or small, is constant throughout the 
day, not varying from hour to hour like the other elements in 
the causation of accidents " (21, p. 130), is a priori improbable, 
and supported by no new evidence. Common observation 
teaches that both the intensity of and the rate at which fatigue 
develops are quite different in trained and in untrained athletes. 



FATIGUE AND ACCIDENTS 195 

Probably the curves of output throughout the day of beginners 
and of experts differ not merely in scale but in form. We do not 
therefore accept the conclusions, but, at the same time, we do not 
think that the respective roles of the two factors, fatigue and 
speed of production, can be assigned by any simple graphical 
method based upon the variations of output and of accidents 
throughout a working day. Fatigue, rate of production and 
accidents are three correlated variables, connected one to another 
by functional relations which are certainly complex, perhaps so 
complex that a satisfactory numerical or mathematical formula- 
tion of them will prove impossible. In our opinion, the problem 
must be first simplified. What we need to determine is the 
influence of each putative factor upon the accident rate when 
isolated from its co-factors. 

It appears least difficult to isolate the speed of production 
factor. To this end, the measures of output and the record of 
accidents should be correlated for the same hour of the shift, i.e., 
a table showing the output per head and the accidents per head 
measured upon workers of equal experience and extending over 
a period of many days ought to be prepared. From such 
material it might be practicable to determine the arithmetical 
law describing the relation between accidents and rate of produc- 
tion. Armed with this result, we could, perhaps, determine the 
influence of the other factor, viz., increasing fatigue, in varying 
the accident incidence throughout the shift. Even so simplified 
the problem is complex. There is the factor of mere duration, i.e., 
fatigue is not a function of rate of production alone, it is also a 
function of mere duration of exposure to factory conditions. 
However simplified, the problem is extremely complex, and its 
solution will certainly tax both our mathematical and our 
observational resources. The point we wish to make here is 
that any attempt to reach final conclusions from an inspection 
of graphs deduced from simple averages of the conditions through 
a working day is likely to lead only to confusion. 

The Personal Factor. There remains still for consideration 
the question as to whether the occurrence of accidents, like 
exposure to the infection of disease, picks and chooses its victims 
as though they possessed some innate tendency or inherited 
predisposition to succumb. This question has been investigated 
by one of us (9), who approached the subject by examining the 
incidence of multiple accidents happening to the same indi- 
viduals ; the problem was to ascertain which of the following- 
three hypotheses was true : (1) " that there is no differentia- 
tion, that industrial accidents are really accidents in the strictest 
sense, just as it is an accident if one draws the ace of spades from 



196 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 



the well -shuffled pack, an accident if a particular pigeon-hole 
receives a ball at any particular throw, and so on : in that event, 
the statistics of multiple accidents would conform to the type 

TABLE 13. Occurrence of Accidents among 
Thirty-six Women employed on Heavy 
Lathe Operations, and Twenty -nine 
employed on Profiling . Operation. 



Number of 
accidents 
sustained. 


Number of 
workers 
concerned. 


Number of 
accidents 
distributed 
amongst the 
same workers. 


Average 
number of 
accidents 
per worker. 


During the. second 
three months. 


During the first 
three months. 





19 


7 


0-4 


1 


21 


21 


1-0 


2 


11 


19 


1-7 


3 


9 


14 


1-6 


4 


2 


5 ) 




5 

6 


1 
1 


4/ 
3 ( 


3-8 


11 


1 


7} 




During the first 
three months. 


During the second 
- three months. 





26 


16 


0-6 


1 


21 


36 


1-7 


2 


6 


8 


1-3 


3 


6 


13 


2-2 


4 


3 


12 \ 




5 


2 


4 


4-5 


7 


1 


11 ) 





Compiled from " The Incidence of Industrial Accidents 
upon Individuals with Special Reference to Multiple 
Accidents." M. Greenwood and H. M. Woods. Indus- 
trial Fatigue Research Board- Report No. 4, 1919. 
This table is to be read as follows : The total numbers of acci- 
dents sustained by sixty-five women in two successive periods of 
three months were recorded. In the second period nineteen 
women had no accidents, and in the first period seven accidents 
occurred amongst these nineteen women, or nearly 0-4 per head. 
Of the twenty-one women who had each one accident in the 
second period the average accident rate in the first period was 
also one, etc. The second half of the table records the average 
accident rate of women who had 0-1, etc., accidents in the first 
period. Note tliat the rate tends to increase if we arrange the 
women in groups according to their experience in the other period. 



PREDISPOSITION 197 

of a pure chance distribution : (2) that all the workers did start 
equal, but that, .an accident having happened to any individual, 
that individual's chance of sustaining a second accident became 
different from what it was before ; (3) that all the workers did 
not start equal, but that some were more liable to suffer casualties 
than others." If the first hypothesis were true, then diminution 
in the number of accidents " would be effected by a change of 
scale through administrative reforms inspired by researches into 
general conditions, but not into the individual physiology or 
psychology of the worker. Were the second -mentioned hypo- 
thesis in better accord with the facts, there would be need for 
consideration whether the enhanced liability to accident after 
a first casualty (supposing the bias were in that direction) might 
not be reduced, perhaps by a compulsory period of rest, possibly 
by a short interval of different work. If, on the other hand, the 
third possibility materialised, it would follow that both initial 
selection of recruits and also rapid elimination of those sustaining 
accidents should have a great effect in reducing the casualty rate 
of the factory." 

The method of investigation called for somewhat intricate 
mathematical calculation depending on the laws of chance, for 
description of which the original paper must be consulted ; 
certain of the data employed are given in Tables 13 and 14. 
For our present purpose the conclusion arrived at is sufficient, 
viz. : " These results indicate that varying individual suscepti- 
bility to ' accident ' is an extremely important factor in deter- 
mining the distribution, so important that, given the experience 
of one period, it might be practicable to foretell with reasonable 
accuracy the average allotment of accidents amongst individuals 
in a subsequent period (see Table 15). This result is in itself of 
considerable interest, because it shows that by weeding out 
susceptibles the accident rate would necessarily decline." This 
conclusion receives support from the following additional facts : 
(a) no measurable difference of output was found between the 
women who had and those who did not have accidents ; (b) those 
who sustained many accidents were on the average neither more 
nor less productive than their fellows ; and (c) no certain 
connection was found between the incidence of multiple accidents 
and sickness, age, or civil state, but these matters call for further 
inquiry, and their importance cannot be deemed small. " So 
far as our present knowledge goes, it seems that the genesis of 
multiple accidents under uniform conditions is an affair of 
personality and not determined by any obvious extrinsic factor, 
such as greater or less speed of work. We cannot say that the 
victims are less healthy persons than those who escape, or that 



198 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 



TABLE 14. Mean Number of Accidents per Month. 



Month, 


Period, October, 1917, to March, 1918. 


Fifty women having 
no accident in 
March, 1918. 


Fifty women having 
accidents in March, 
1918. 


October . 
November 
December . 
January . 
February . 
March 

Total . 


0-42 
0-24 
0-34 
0-60' 
0-34 


0-64 
0-74 
0-34 
0-58 
0-50 
1-36 


0-39 


0-69 


Month. 


Period, October, 1917, to January, 1918. 


Sixty- one women 
having no accident 
in January. 


Fifty-five women 
having accidents in 
January. 


October . 
November 
December . 
January . 

Total . 


0-43 
0-16 
0-12 


0-91 
0-93 
0-64 
1-67 


0-23 


1-03 


Month. 


Period, February, 1917, to July, 1918. 


One hundred and 
thirty-six women 
having no accident 
in February. 


Sixty-two women 
having accidents in 
February. 


February . 
March 
April 
May 
June 
July 

Total . 


0-06 
0-30 
0-10 
0-26 
0-01 


1-31 
0-65 
0-45 
0-21 
0-40 
0-03 


0-15 


0-41 



Compiled from " The Incidence of Industrial Accidents 
upon Individuals with Special Reference to Multiple Acci- 
dents." M. Greenwood and H. M. Woods. / >t<lit*lri<il 
Fatigue Research Board. Report No. 4, 1919. 



PREDISPOSITION 



199 



TABLE 15. Showing how many Accidents 
occurred to Thirty-six Women on Heavy 
Lathe Operations during a Period of Three 
Months in comparison with the Numbers of 
Accidents calculated from the Average 
Relation found between Accidents in the 
Successive Periods. 





Previous 


Observed three months. 




three 






months. 


Observed. 


Calculated. * 





14 


9 


9-4 


1 


12 


10 


7-9 


2 


4 


7 


6-8 


3 


1 


6 


5-1 


4 


2 


2 


3-1 


5 


2 


1 


1-7 


6 


1 


1 


1-9 


and over 








Total . 





36 


35-9 



they are better workers so far as our data go there is no reason 
to think that they are specially productive workers. If this 
conclusion be confirmed by a wider investigation the practical 
corollary is obvious. The c susceptible workers ' should be 
transferred so far as practicable from processes involving any 
special risk of accident to occupations not exposing to any such 
risk." It is further pointed out that " trivial accidents are 
indicators of unsafe people whom the record of the ambulance 
room can be employed to discover," and that " from the present 
point of view a worker who has had three trivial accidents 
is a more dangerous person than one who has had a single bad 
wound." 

The main conclusions of Greenwood and Woods have been 
confirmed on ampler data by Miss Newbould and Miss Allan, 
working for the Fatigue Research Board. The suggestion of our 
Tables 1315 that an operative who has more (or fewer) acci- 
dents than the average in any one period will occupy approxi- 
mately the same position in another trial period can be more 

* Owing to an arithmetical error, the " calculated. " values as printed in 
the original report are incorrect, and should be replaced by those given 
here. 



200 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 

adequately tested by the method of correlation. The claim is 
that individual variations from the means of successive periods 
are correlated. Coefficients were found (9) of the order of 0-4 to 
0*7 (the maximum possible value is 1-0), but the samples were 
small. Newbould and Allan have traced the accident records 
of 387 women through two periods each of five months, and find 
a correlation of 0-608 + 0-022 between the successive records.* 
The correlation persists when the record is limited to accidents 
due to flying particles, it holds when the division is made between 
morning and afternoon shifts, and may be deemed an established 
result. This later investigation also shows that, although the 
absolute value of the correlation between individual accidents 
and individual output is small, it is usually negative, i.e., 
persons liable to accident are slightly less productive than 
others. 

These results are much what we should expect. All will 
agree that some people are " all thumbs " and others nimble- 
fingered or sure-footed, but further elucidation is of importance 
to enable the student of industrial hygiene to diagnose a 
liability which may cause disaster and must cause minor 
inconvenience and ill-health. 

The most promising line of investigation is suggested by the 
researches of Spearman (see 26, 27, 28) and his pupils. This 
investigator extended and gave scientific precision to the view 
that success in a variety of intellectual tests depended upon the 
concurrence of two " factors," one a general factor, a function of 
the total intellectual make-up of the subject, the other specific 
to the particular test. The statistico-mathematical criteria by 
which Spearman measured the intensities of the action of the 
several factors have been criticised (see 24 and 28), but, although 
certain details may be open to objection, the general lines 
followed are interesting and logical (see 24). The importance 
of the matter is that Spearman's pupil Webb (see 25) brought 
forward evidence of the existence of a second general factor con- 
cerned with efficiency in what we may call (although the word is 
not technically correct) the emotional sphere. Now if we con- 
ceive that success in a variety of actions depends more or less 
upon their respective " saturations " with one general factor, it 
is possible by statistical methods to measure the extent of 
" saturation " of each test by the general factor. Thus Webb 
(see 25, p. 58) concluded that the following characters : (1) Ten- 

* As an illustration from more extensive data of the tendency brought 
out on p. 196, we may note that among 124 women who sustained no 
accident between Jan. 1st, 1918, and June 1st, 1918, the average in the 
next six months was O97 ; for 97 who each had one accident in the first 
period, T32 ; for 66 who had two each before, 2*0. 



NEW WORKERS 201 

dency not to abandon tasks from mere changeability ; (2) Ten- 
dency not to abandon tasks in face of obstacles ; (3) Kindness 
on principle ; (4) Trustworthiness ; (5) Conscientiousness ; 
(6) Readiness to become angry ; (7) Eagerness for admiration ; 
(8) Bodily activity in pursuit of pleasure, were all more or less 
saturated with the second general factor. Hence, if one desired 
to select persons endowed with a large measure of this general 
character and had not the opportunity to apply all the tests as a 
routine, one would determine, upon a moderate sample carefully 
analysed, which particular characteristic capable of being tested 
was most highly saturated with the general factor, and use that 
characteristic as a routine test. This is not a mere arm-chair 
suggestion. The report on flying temperament (29) is concerned 
with a problem cognate with that of selecting industrial workers ; 
to select a test which will reveal the appropriate psychological 
make-up of a good air pilot was a very urgent problem in the 
later days of the war. In the earlier stages of the investiga- 
tions, one of us derived statistical suggestions of (a) the existence 
of a general factor and (b) the extent to which particular routine 
tests were saturated with the general factor and, therefore, 
practically useful. These particular investigations were neither 
sufficiently detailed nor based upon a sufficient number of 
instances to justify their discussion now, but the inferences they 
suggested have since been confirmed by other methods applied 
to better data. It seems to us probable that research on these 
lines will eventually give us an instrument of industrial selection 
which may help us to reduce industrial accident risks con- 
siderably. 

New Workers. Closely associated with personal predisposition 
to accidents comes the tendency of new workers to sustain 
accidents, a matter of importance in relation to labour turnover. 
The occurrence of accidents may in itself be one reason leading 
to the elimination from dangerous processes of those with an 
accident 'susceptibility. Mock states (17) that he found an 
accident rate of 111*3 per 1,000 workers employed for six months 
and less, as contrasted with a rate of 42 '4 per 1,000 employed 
for three to five years. 

A further investigation (21) into the relation between length 
of employment and the occurrence of accidents is summarised 
in the table on p. 202, whence it will be noted that about 
34 per cent, of the workers within their first six months 
of employment accounted for nearly 50 per cent, of all the 
accidents. 

Here again the incidence of accidents resembles the incidence 
of disease. Legge has pointed out (18) that cases of lead 



202 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 



TABLE 16. Distribution by Period of Employment of Accidents, 
Persons at Work, and Persons Leaving, at a Ten-hour 
Plant. 



Period of 








employ- 
ment in 


Percentage of all 
accidents. 


Percentage of 
persons employed. 


Percentage of 
persons leaving. 


months. 








(i.) 


(ii.) 


(iii.) 


(iv.) 


1 






Under 1 


14-41 


14-01 


38-11 


12 


10-6 \- 34-71 


8-9 j> 28-01 


21-6 i- 68-01 


23 


9-6 j \ 48-5 


5-2 j '^34-2 


8-3 j ^76-9 


36 


13-8 j 


6-2 j 


8-9 j 


69 


5-11 


6-61 


6-51 


912 


2-5 J- 51-5 


6-2 !> 65-8 


4-1 j. 23-0 


Over 12 


43-9 j 


53-0 j 


12-6J 



Column iv. is included here for reference later in Chapter XVI. 

poisoning are most numerous in the first weeks of employment 
and fall off as the period of exposure lengthens ; the workers 
appear to acquire a degree of immunity. The same fact was 
noted by one of us in relation to the occurrence among munition 
workers of T.N.T. poisoning, the incidence of which approached 
the vanishing point among those employed for six months and 
over. Length of employment has also been found an important 
factor in the occurrence of lost time due to all causes. These 
facts suggest that the human body requires time to adjust itself 
to a new environment, just as Vernon has shown that increased 
output does not follow immediately upon altered hours of work, 
but is only attained after several months (19). The worker who 
has gained this adjustment is a more useful member of the staff, 
not merely because he has learnt his work, but because he is less 
liable to sustain accidents or succumb to illness ; and a con- 
stantly changing staff of workers may be expected to experience 
a high rate of sickness whether due to the occurrence of accidents 
or of illness. 

General Conclusion. 

The result of this examination of the incidence of accidents 
appears to us not without value. Here is a group of cases 
contributing to the general morbidity and mortality, the exact 
method and moment of the occurrence of which is clearly 
known ; here we have no uncertain intervention of microbic 
influence, no recourse to hypothetical variations in the potency 
of epidemic attack. Yet we find an incidence and frequency 



INFERENCE DRAWN 203 

resembling in every way what we are accustomed to when 
investigating disease attributed to biological influences. In the 
physiological and psychological condition of the worker and in 
his reaction to the conditions of his environment lies the origin 
of the vast majority of accidents, rather than in any lack of 
guards and of fencing of machinery. 

Is it possible to draw a moral herefrom, namely, that other 
forms of disease and mortality similarly depend, far more than 
is at present appreciated, upon the physiological and psycho- 
logical condition of each individual, and that the most promising 
way of attacking the incidence of sickness and of premature death 
is through personal health and resisting power rather than by 
fencing the public about with protective guards against disease ? 
What is really the matter with the sick is their tendency to be 
sick. 

The most famous of the Greek physicians taught this doctrine 
1,800 years ago. ' ; In all this discussion we must remember that 
no cause can be efficient without an aptitude of the body, else 
all who are exposed to the summer sun, move about more than 
they should, drink wine, get angry or grieve, would fall into a 
fever. Or again all would fall sick at the rising of the Dogstar, 
and all would die in a pestilence. As I have said, the chief 
factor in the production of disease is the preparation of the body 
to suffer it. Let us imagine that the air is carrying divers seeds 
of pestilence, and that of the bodies exposed thereto some are 
choked with excrementous matters, some not ; some plethoric 
and with obstructed pores, others not ; some given to luxurious 
life, 1^) banquetting, to drinking, to sexual excess, and their 
attendant evils, others moderate in exercise and temperate in 
diet. All this being supposed, judge which class is likelier to be 
harmed by inspiring polluted air. . . . This has been said in 
connection with a particular example of disease, but it is an 
universal truth."* 

In industrial life we may remove from risk those who show a 
tendency to accidents ; we cannot remove from risk those with a 
tendency to sickness, but we can endeavour to interest each 
person in himself, in his own health, and how to maintain it. 
Then just as in industry safety committees, by interesting each 
worker in the causation of accidents, are reducing their fre- 
quency by 50 per cent, and more, so may general ill-health be 
reduced by interesting the community to understand that 
non est vivere, sed valere vita (living's not life's wealth ; 'tis 
health). 

* Galenos de Differentiis Febrium, Book I., Chap. VI. (Kiihn's edition, 
Vol VII.). 



204 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 



II. Prevention of Accidents. 

The foregoing argument establishes that accident prevention, 
which may be considered an important branch of preventive 
surgery, must be approached from two directions, (i.) observation 
and research and (ii.) administration. 



Observation and Research. 

No line of action for accident prevention can be thoroughly 
effective unless based upon sure knowledge, which can only be 
obtained through research. Records should be made of the 
occurrence of each accident, stating (a) the name, sex and age 
of the worker, (b) the process involved, (c) the time of occurrence, 
(d) the nature of the injury, (e) the exact cause as ascertained at 
the time, (/) in the case of machinery accidents the exact part 
of the machinery which caused the accident, and (#) the length 
of invalidity, if any, which results. These records should be 
classified as a routine procedure and the results shown by a 
graphic method, so that the rise and fall of accident -occurrence 
by the week and the month, by the processes involved, the 
machinery and the departments concerned, can be rapidly 
observed and checked. Close observation should at the same 
time be directed to noting workers possessing an tk accident 
susceptibility " with a view to moving them to some other 
process. 

The effect of modifying environmental conditions which 
influence vitality, such as temperature, ventilation and lighting, 
can be noted by watching the graphs, which will show whether 
modifications introduced are producing any effect and, if so, in 
which direction. Only through such observation and research 
carried out on scientific lines can administrative efforts at 
accident prevention be pursued with any expectation of success. 

" A priori " Reasoning. Particularly would we warn against 
action based on a priori reasoning. He who is content to direct 
administration according to what is known as " common sense " 
will sooner or later find that unexpected and unthought-of 
influences produce results quite opposed to preconceived ideas. 
What is said here is applicable throughout the industrial world 
before administrative action is taken in relation to human 
beings ; two instances may serve to illustrate the necessity for 
constant appeal to, and search after facts. 

Some years ago a Government Committee gave (16) as one 
reason against employing boys by night that they slept worse 
by day, but this conclusion, although based on evidence heard, 



RESEARCH 205 

was an example of a priori reasoning. During the war 
inquiries made by Capt. Agnew (11) to investigate the point 
elicited that 376 boys working by day slept on an average 
7*8 hours, while 1,080 boys, working by day and by night 
alternate weeks, slept on an average 7-7 hours when on 
day work but 8*0 hours when on night work. '' The boys 
were found generally to enjoy longer sleep when they slept 
during the day, one of the chief reasons being that the boy is 
not on tenterhooks about being up in proper time for reaching 
his work. When sleeping during the day he generally remains 
in bed until the last moment, and then is ' called ' by his mother 
or some other occupant of the house, being allowed sufficient 
time to partake of a meal comfortably and get to his work. 
When sleeping during the night it is obvious that the risks of 
being late through not being called are very much greater."* 

The second instance refers to whether a worker should con- 
tinue on night-shift for many weeks on end, or should change 
over to day work every week or fortnight a matter of con- 
siderable importance during the war. Some knowledge of 
previous physiological observations made upon monkeys and 
among arctic explorers as to the length of time required to 
reverse the diurnal rhythm of physiological functions, and of 
the usual practice adopted by hospital nurses of continuing 
for months on night work, induced one of us to advocate strongly 
the " continuous " night-shift. An investigation in which the 
subject was approached by several observers from different 
aspects was promptly set on foot (12). When a considerable body 
of reliable information referring to output and to lost time was 
collected, it was found to agree in establishing the inferiority 
of the continuous night worker as compared with the " discon- 
tinuous " night worker. This was embodied in the Committee's 
report, that it was " undesirable to adopt for women continuous 
night-shifts in any factory not at present so working or not yet 
open, and that wherever practicable this system should be dis- 
continued." The reason for this unexpected result is thus 
stated : " Women on continuous night work are likely to per- 
form domestic duties, which, when they work alternately in 
the two shifts, is impracticable, and this extra domestic strain 
may account for the inferior results of their industrial activities." 
The inferiority of the male on continuous night work, although 
clearly established, was not so pronounced. " This result is 
what might be expected, if the surmise regarding the cause of 
the inferiority seen among women were correct. Men do not 
naturally take so much part in domestic work as women, and 
* The position was found to be reversed for men. 



206 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 

the temptation to Iburn the candle at both ends is, from this 
point of view, smaller. On the other hand, the incitement to 
devote the time which should be given to sleep to amusement 
is certainly as intense among men as among women, so that 
some inferiority might be anticipated." 

Here then are instances of conclusions apparently reasonable 
being arrived at without due allowance being made for inter- 
fering social influences, the value and, indeed, the existence of 
which could not be determined without careful investigation. 

44 One method of delivery alone remains to us, which is simply 
this : we must lead men to the particulars themselves, and their 
series and order, while men on their side must force themselves 
for a while to lay their notions by and begin to familiarise 
themselves with facts."* 

Administration . 

Administrative efforts must be of two kinds, (a) to minimise 
risk and (b) to reduce personal lack of interest. 

How to Minimise Risk. Efforts in this direction hardly fall 
within the scope of this book. Engineers, especially H.M. 
Inspectors of Mines and of Factories, have for many years con- 
centrated their attention on mechanical devices and appliances, 
on fencing and guarding machinery, on testing hauling gear and 
the like. Powers to ensure safety are provided for in the Factory 
Acts, the Mines and Quarries Acts and Explosives Acts. Much 
inventive genius has been displayed, and a whole literature has 
been created in reference to safety devices. 

For reasons already given, while in no way minimising the 
value of efforts in this direction, we are of opinion that more 
immediate results and a great reduction in the incidence of 
accidents can be obtained by attention to the personal tendency 
to accidents. 

How to reduce Personal Lack of Interest. Action is required 
in several directions which in the past have not received sufficient 
attention. The first and, undoubtedly, the most important 
step to take is a psychological one, viz., to interest the workers 
themselves in their own safety ; unless the step is effective, the 
provision of guards and safety appliances will be to a great 
extent nullified, while the co-operation needed to render success- 
ful the recommendations which are hereafter made will be 
lacking. 

Safety Committees. Committees of the workpeople (by 
preference elected by themselves) for each workshop should 

* Novum Oryanum, Book I. Aphor. XXX V.I 



SAFETY FIRST 207 

be appointed and entrusted with the task of investigating and 
reporting upon the causation, and possible means for preventing 
the recurrence, of each accident immediately it occurs. Such 
committees in a large establishment may be represented on a 
central safety committee presided over by a safety inspector 
a full time official entrusted with the duty of examining all 
machinery, advising with the engineering staff as to points of 
danger,' presiding over accident inquiries, and possibly of 
organising the first-aid ambulance brigade. The personnel of 
the shop committees should be kept changing, each worker only 
acting for a limited period, say, six months, in order to inculcate 
the principles of safety first and accident prevention among, a 
large number of workers (2.3). 

Safety committees should form an integral part of the welfare 
department of any industrial establishment. 

Safety First. Safety committees should be the keystone to 
the arch upon which administrative measures for accident 
prevention are built. The arch itself is instruction and educa- 
tion. Accidents represent the psychological as well as physio- 
logical reaction of human beings to environment, and, unless 
the mind is taught what to avoid, rectification of unhealthy 
surroundings will fail in effect. Good ventilation, for instance, 
will not enable workers to detect danger in a live electric wire. 
Safety rules should be posted and notices displayed ; notices 
should be short and pithy if they are to arrest attention. Since 
some will not read rules or regard notices, recourse should be had 
to pictorial placards showing how accidents occur through 
carelessness and the results which follow. Notices and placards* 
should be changed frequently, as familiarity soon breeds con- 
tempt. They should be displayed in well-chosen positions so 
as to challenge observation ; a useful device is to paint on a 
machine a warning which only becomes visible when a guard is 
removed. 

Each industry has its own particular risks to guard against, 
and must design its own notices and placards. Many excellent 
ones have been brought out in America as well as in this country, 
and there is no need here to do more than to mention their 
value. 

Suggestion Box. A further useful way to interest workers in 
safety methods is the provision of a suggestion box. This is 
simply a box for posting letters containing suggestions by the 
workers. All proposals should be submitted to the safety com- 

* Posters for exhibition and pamphlets for distribution can be obtained 
on application to the British Industrial " Safety First " Association, 31, 
Westminster Broadway, London, S.YV. 1. 



208 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 

mittee for consideration, and the author of any one adopted 
should be rewarded. Workers often know better than any one 
else how to prevent accidents occurring, but will not place 
their views before a foreman. Many valuable devices have 
originated in this way. The suggestion box need not, of course, 
be restricted to dealing only with accident prevention ; sugges- 
tions of all kinds should be welcomed and considered by those 
whom they concern. 

Susceptibility. Reference has already been made to the pos- 
session by certain persons of a predisposition to suffer from 
accidents, a predisposition which can be discovered by watching 
records. Once the fact is established for any given worker, he 
or she should be transferred to other work. The new process 
need not of necessity be entirely free from accident risk ; a lad 
who sustains accidents while feeding a machine, the pace of 
which is not adjusted to his physiological rhythm, may cease 
to have accidents when working a lathe or power press. Careful 
consideration, however, will be required in fixing the new pro- 
cess, and the worker may feel aggrieved at being moved. Such 
matters may, with advantage, be referred to the safety com- 
mittee, whose interest will be stimulated by the line of action 
adopted. The question of eliminating workers with an accident 
susceptibility, both in their own interest and that of their 
fellows, is probably one of the most important in relation to 
reducing the incidence of industrial accidents. 

Attention must also be directed to reduction in labour turn- 
over ; new workers experience more accidents than those of 
long service. Every influence which tends to maintain the 
personnel of the workers unchanged is of value in reducing the 
incidence of accidents, and one effective influence is a well- 
organised welfare department entrusted with the duty of 
engaging labour and versed in the methods of vocational 
selection. 

Working Clothes. One further matter calls for note, viz., the 
suitability of working clothes. The tendency which is growing 
for overalls to be worn (see p. 345) should go far to prevent the 
occurrence of the class of accidents due to loose clothing ; the 
importance of the matter is clear from what has already been 
said of the causation of shafting accidents. 

A Duty for the Medical Profession. 

The prevention of industrial accidents has been correctly 
named a branch of preventive surgery, but it is a field of work 
which has been left in the main to laymen to develop. A doctor 



PREVENTIVE SURGERY 209 

who sees two or three cases of enteric fever straightway informs 
the local health authorities in order that steps may be taken to 
prevent the occurrence of more. Yet the causation of accidents 
is more obvious than the causation of disease, while the part 
played by the psychology of the victims is clearly more readily 
appreciated by a medical man than by the laity. 

The circumstances which surround the occurrence of an 
accident are manifold. They concern the external conditions 
under which work is done, and skilled knowledge as to the 
way in which human beings react to these conditions is required 
before improvements can be effected. They concern the tem- 
porary or permanent physiological and psychological conditions 
of the workers themselves, and skilled knowledge is required for 
the selection of workers for various processes, and for eliminating 
or temporarily suspending those not fitted for their work. The 
surgeon, far more than the physician, has in the past been 
content to concentrate upon the "handicraft " side of his 
work, and has left undeveloped not only after-care, but also 
prevention. 

Accidents, the cause of much mortality and far greater inca- 
pacity and suffering, are more manifestly preventable than 
disease. A duty to take part in their prevention lies with the 
profession as a whole, and with factory medical officers in 
particular. 

III. Bibliography. 

1. Supplement to Sixty-fifth Annual Report of the Registrar-General 
of Births, Deaths and Mrarriages in England and Wales. Part (II.). 
(Cd. 2619.) 1908. ' 

2. Annual Report of Chief Inspector of Mines for 1913. (Cd. 7452.) 

3. Annual Report of Chief Inspector of Factories and Workshops for 
1907. 

4. Annual Report of Chief Inspector of Factories and Workshops for 
1913. 

5. Annual Report of Chief Inspector of Factories and Workshops for 
1918. 

6. Smith, W. S. Report on Fencing and Safety Precautions for 
Transmission Machinery. H.M. Stationery Office. 1913. 

7. Collis, E. L. " Minutes of Evidence." Report of Royal Com- 
mission on Metalliferous Mines and Quarries, III. (Cd. 7478.) 

8. Vernon, H. M. " An Investigation of the Factors Concerned 
in the Causation of Industrial Accidents." Health of Munition 
Workers Committee. Memo. No. 21. (Cd. 9046.) 1918. 

9. Greenwood, M., and Woods, H. M. " The Incidence of Indus- 
trial Accidents upon Individuals, with special reference to Multiple 
Accidents." Industrial Fatigue Research Board. Report No. 4. 
1919. 

10. Parsons, J. H. " Preventive Ophthalmology." Trans. 
Ophthalmol. Soc., XXXIX. 1919. 

11. Agnew, T. H. " Report on the Health and Physical Condition 



210 CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 

of Male Munition "Workers." Health of Munition Workers Committee. 
Interim Report. (Cd. 8511.) 1917. 

12. " The Comparative Efficiencies of Day Work and Night Work 
in Munition Factories." Health of Munition Workers Committee. 
Interim Report. (Cd. 8511.) 1917. 

13. " The Effect of Industrial Conditions upon Eyesight." Health 
of Munition Workers Committee. Memo. No. 15. (Cd. 8409.) 
1916. 

14. Royal Commission on Metalliferous Mines and Quarries, 
pp. 110112. Second Report. (Cd. 7476.) 1914. 

15. Collis, E. L. " Eye Injuries Caused by Occupation." The 
Ophthalmoscope. October, 1915. 

16. Report of Departmental Committee on Night Employment of 
Male Young Persons in Factories. (Cd. 6503.) 1912. 

17. Mock, H. E. Industrial Medicine and Surgery. W. B. 
Sauriders & Co. Philadelphia. 1919. 

18. Legge, T. M., and Goadby, K. Lead Poisoning and Lead 
Absorption. 1912. 

19. Vernon, H. M. "The Speed of Adaptation of Output to 
altered Hours of Work." Industrial Fatigue Research Board. 
Report No. 6. 1920. 

20. Greenwood, M., and Yule, G. U. " An Inquiry into the 
Nature of Frequency Distributions representative of Multiple Happen- 
ings." Journ. Roy. Stat. Soc., LXXXIIL, p. 256. 1920. 

21. " Comparison of an Eight-hour Plant and a Ten-hour Plant." 
Public Health Bulletin No. 106. Government Printing Office, Wash- 
ington. 1920. 

22. Bellhouse, G. Accident Prevention and " Safety First." 
Manchester University Press. 1920. 

23. Appendix to Welfare and Welfare Supervision in Factories and 
Workshops. H.M. Stationery Office. 1919. 

24. Garnett, J. C. M. " On Certain Independent Factors in Mental 
Measurements." Proc. Roy. Soc., A., XCVL, p. 91. 1919. 

25. Webb, E. " Character and Intelligence." British Journal 
of Psychology, Monograph Supplements, Vol. I. Cambridge. 1915. 

26. Hart, B"., and Spearman, C. " General Ability." Journ. of 
Psychology, V., p. 51. 1912. 

27. Spearman, C. " The Theory of Two Factors." Psychological 
Review, XXI., p. 101. 1914. 

28. Spearman, C. " Manifold Sub-theories of the Two Factors." 
Psychological Review, XXVII., p. 159. 1920. 

29. " The Medical Problems of Flying." Medical Research Council, 
Special Report Series, No. 53. H.M. Stationery Office. 



CHAPTER IX 

INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

I. Introduction. II. Place of Women in Historic Times. III. Lack of 
Morbidity and Mortality Data. IV. Physical Capacity': Strength ; 
Athletic Capacity ; Lack of Training ; Liability to Hernia ; Liability 
to Fatigue. V. Physiological Characteristics : The Blood ; Vari- 
cose Veins ; Nutrition ; Menstruation ; AnsBinia and Digestive 
Disturbances ; Respiration ; Shock ; Maternity ; General Resistance 
to Disease. VI. Psychological Aptitude : The Brain ; Psycho- 
neuroses ; Industrial Experience ; Effect of Women on Industry. 
VII. Other Considerations. VIII. Summary. IX. Conclusion. 
X. Bibliography. 

I. Introduction. 

THE scarcity of male labour during the war caused a heavy 
demand for female labour (see Chapter VI., p. ,132), and this 
sudden demand drew public attention to the drift of women 
towards factory employment which had been steadily going on 
during the whole of the nineteenth century. Several influences 
had been at work. The introduction of mechanical power had 
made possible the employment of women on work previously done 
by men. Simultaneously there arose a call for unskilled or semi- 
skilled labour, such as that of women who, with matrimony in 
view, do not as a class look forward to a life of industrial employ- 
ment and so do not apprentice themselves to skilled trades. At 
the same time the factory was steadily absorbing the manu- 
facture of articles which women had formerly made at home ; 
the loom, the spinning frame, the lace machine, the hosiery 
knitter, the power-driven sewing-machine, the steam laundry, 
the biscuit factory, the bakehouse, the model dairy and the jam 
factory were producing finished articles cheaper than the requisite 
raw materials could be purchased retail ; and " in the United 
States, in 1840, Harriet Martineau found only seven employ- 
ments practically open to women as alternatives to marrying 
for a living, namely, teaching, needlework, keeping boarders, 
working in cotton mills, book-binding, typesetting, and house- 
hold service " (1). Thus, while the mother of a rising family 
remained fully occupied with her household, there came to be 
an increasing proportion of unmarried women and girls with no 
home work. These women were ready to supply the demand 
for semi-skilled labour at a cheap rate; and as opportunity 
arose, they followed their work into the factory ; while their 
better-off sisters devoted their energies and free time to political 



212 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

propaganda and to forcing open to women the door of the 
learned professions. 

This chapter is concerned with the effects of factory work 
upon the health of female, as contrasted with male, workers ; only 
indirectly with the social question as to whether women should 
or sliould not be so employed. That the lives of women should 
be fully occupied we hold to be axiomatic for both economic 
and physiological reasons. For economic reasons, because no 
nation can afford to leave half its population unproductive ; 
" no redistribution of wealth can in itself create a sufficiency of 
commodities. . . . The necessity for increased production at 
the present time, if a reasonable standard of comfort is to be 
created and maintained, is generally accepted " (5). For 
physiological reasons, because activity is necessary for the 
preservation of health ; as Bhartrihari has expressed it in the 
Niti Sataka, " mankind's great enemy is idleness. There is no 
friend like energy, and if you culti vat e~ that you will never fail." 

But the industrial employment of women raises social questions 
as to the position of women in modern civilised life which cannot 
be entirely separated from its medical aspect. We must have 
some idea of the place occupied by woman in the past, and of 
her physical, physiological and psychical capacity, before being 
in a position to discuss the effect of industrial employment upon 
her health, and, through her, upon that of the next generation. 
Should history show that woman has never undertaken laborious 
work, that she has never been a lab our- sharing colleague of the 
male, that she has only functioned as the mother and nurse of 
children, and that in the evolution of the race she has merely 
been a sort of queen bee, necessary for the continuation of the 
race, then the question of her employment to-day, even if no 
physical or physiological reason to the contrary is apparent, 
could only be looked upon in the light of a dangerous experiment. 

II. Place of Women in Historic Times. 

The allocation of particular industries or tasks to primitive 
woman has no doubt been influenced by religious motives or, to 
speak more accurately, by a belief in magic. " When a Catholic 
priest remonstrated with the Indians of the Orinoco on allowing 
their women to sow the fields in the blazing sun, with infants at 
their breasts, the men answered, ' Father, you don't understand 
these things, and that is why they vex you. You know that 
women are accustomed to bear children, and that we men are not. 
When the women sow, the stalk of the maize bears two or three 
ears, the root of the yucca yields two or three basketfuls, and 



EARLY HISTORY 213 

everything multiplies in proportion. Now, why is that ? Simply 
because the women know how to bring forth, and know how to 
make the seed which they sow bring forth also. Let them sow, 
then ; we men don't know as much about it as they do ' " (25). 
In some tribes amongst which the manufacture of pottery is 
confined to women (26) a like magical explanation can be sought. 
In assessing the historical facts of industrial organisation as 
evidence of sexual aptitudes, we must not forget the potent 
influence of beliefs, an influence still mighty long after the 
beliefs themselves and the Weltanschauung from which they 
arose have faded from the memory of man. 

The subject has been carefully considered by Thomas (2), 
who draws his conclusions not merely from what is known of 
the respective positions of the male and female of other mammalia 
and of what may be conjectured of prehistoric man, but from 
primitive races as they exist to-day. He holds, and we think 
he is justified in holding, that the customs of aborigines represent, 
in principle at any rate, the stages through which the more 
civilised races passed a few thousand years ago, and that there 
is no clear evidence that duriitg the process of civilisation the 
human race has been profoundly modified. Reviewing the 
evidence, he finds that in primitive times 

" Man represented the more violent and spasmodic activities, 
involving motion and skilful co-ordinations, as well as organi- 
sation for hunting and fighting, while woman carried on the 
steady, settled life. She was not able to wander readily from 
a fixed point, on account of her children ; and, indeed, her 
physical organisation fitted her for endurance rather than 
movement. Consequently her attention was turned to indus- 
tries, since these were compatible with settled and stationary 
habits. Agriculture, pottery, weaving, tanning, and all the 
industrial processes involved in working up the by-products of 
the chase, were developed by her. She domesticated man 
and assisted him in domesticating the animals. ... In the 
course of time, however, an important change took place in 
environmental conditions. While woman had been doing the 
general work and had developed the beginnings of many 
industries, man had become a specialist along another line. 
His occupation had been almost exclusively the pursuit of 
animals or conflict with his neighbours, and in this connection 
he had become the inventor of weapons and traps, and in 
addition had learned the value of acting in concert with his 
companions. But a hunting life cannot last for ever; and 
when large game began to be exhausted, man found himself 
forced to abandon his destructive and predaceous activities, 



214 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

and adopt the settled occupations of woman. To these he 
brought all the inventive technique and capacity for organised 
action which he had developed in his hunting and fighting life, 
with the result that he became the master of woman in a new 
sense. Not suddenly, but in the course of time, he usurped 
her primacy in the industrial pursuits, and through his organi- 
sation of industry and the application of invention to the 
industrial processes became a creator of wealth on a scale 
before unknown. ... Among peasants, also, and plain people 
the proverb recognises that the ' gray mare is the better horse.' 
The heavy, strong, enduring, patient, often dominant type 
frequently seen among the lower classes, where alone woman 
is still economically functional, is probably a good represen^ 
tative of what the women of our race were before they were 
reduced by man to a condition of parasitism which, in our 
middle and so-called higher classes, has profoundly affected 
their physical, mental and moral life " (2, pp. 228 2.32). 
Ellis (22, p. 8), when dealing with the early history of human 
development, quotes from Otis T. Mason, who claims that 
primitive woman in her daily work originated industry after 
industry, an eloquent and suggestive passage which concludes : 
" In the early history of art, language, social life, and religion 
women were the industrial, elaborative, conservative half of 
society. . . . Along the lines of industrialism she was pioneer, 
inventor, author, originator." 

Another authority, Sir J. G. Frazer, approaching the subject 
from an entirely different point of view, namely that of evidence 
drawn from 'folk-lore and tradition, draws similar deductions. 
He writes (34) : " We have to bear in mind that at a certain 
stage of social evolution a wife is valued, not merely as a com- 
panion and mother of children, but also as a labourer, who 
contributes in a large measure to the support of the family." 

The Hebrews certainly employed their women on heavy work, 
as is indicated by such passages as " the maid-servant that is 
behind the mill " \Exod. xi. 5) ; " Every wise woman buildeth 
her house " (Prov. xiv. 1) ; " Two women shall be grinding 
at the mill " (Matt. xxiv. 41) ; while the following quotation, 
anent the virtuous woman, sets out their ideal of feminine 
capacity : 

" She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her 
hands. She is like the merchants' ships ; she bringeth her food 
from afar. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat 
to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She con- 
sidereth a field, and buyeth it : with the fruit of her hands she 
planteth a vineyard. She girdeth her loins with strength, and 



THE MIDDLE AGES 215 

strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise 
is good : her candle goeth not out by night. She layeth her 
hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She 
stretcheth out her hand to the poor ; yea, she reacheth forth her 
hands to the needy. She is not afraid of the snow for her house- 
hold : for all her household are clothed with scarlet. She maketh 
herself coverings of tapestry ; her clothing is silk and purple. 
Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among 
the elders of the land. She maketh fine linen, selleth it, and 
delivereth girdles unto the merchant." , 

Work at flour mills was recognised by the Greeks and Romans 
as severe drudgery which fell chiefly upon slaves and criminals, 
yet Homer refers to fifty females in the house of Alcinous being 
employed on this service ; and the passage already quoted from 
Antipater in Chapter I. indicates that the Romans employed 
women to turn millstones. In the time of the Roman occupa- 
tion of Britain the manufacture of linen and woollen articles was 
so far carried on by women that an institution for this purpose 
was known as a gyneceum, of which there was one at 
Winchester (35). 

The work of women has been accepted in England for as long 
as evidence exists. The records of Leicester (1264) state (12) 
how the remuneration of weavers and women wool- wrappers 
was fixed by the guild. Women and girls in the time of 
Edward II. worked in Derbyshire lead mines, where Arthur 
Young still found them employed in the eighteenth century, as 
well as in the plated ware trade of Sheffield, in spinning wool, 
and in the potteries at Burslem. 

Fourteenth-century pictorial records, reproduced by Green (32), 
show women occupied not only at carding and spinning, but on 
the land, weeding, reaping, and breaking up stony ground, and 
also as iron workers, armourers, and at sawing ; the evidence 
indeed suggests that Eve delved as well as span in the days of 
John Ball. Certainly the Ordinance of Labourers (1349) laid it 
down (11) that all able-bodied men and women, free and bond, 
without definite means of support, were to accept service at the 
old rates of payment. In 1388 and 1444 we find fixed by statute 
the wages of a woman labourer, and again in 1444 and 1495 
the wages of a woman servant of husbandry. 

Thorold Rogers (10) writing of the thirteenth century, says : 
" The hoeing of the land was generally undertaken by women. 
There was full opportunity for this employment until the middle 
of the fourteenth century, after which the outdoor employment 
of women almost disappears for a long time. In harvest time, 
women worked at piece work, as the men did, and generally at 



216 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

the same rates." Referring to the fifteenth century, he states : 
" The man (homo) who is employed as a help to the thatcher or 
tiler, and often to the mason, later on to the bricklayer, is paid 
at the rate of agricultural labourers in ordinary times, or a little 
less. This help was sometimes a woman, as was generally the 
case in the earlier period ; and thus it is seen that women's 
work, when of what we may call an unskilled kind, was equally 
well paid with that of men. In 1467, two girls are hired to work, 
and are paid twopence a day. They are also boarded, and this 
is put at twopence a day more. In the same year, at Selborne 
Priory, in Hampshire, the board of men is put at twopence, of 
women at three-halfpence." 

Lipson concludes (13) that, although the economic position 
of women in the Middle Ages is obscure, they took a considerable 
share in industrial life. " They were admitted to the member- 
ship of certain craft guilds, especially among the Barber Surgeons 
of London* and York ; they were enrolled as apprentices ; and 
the brewing industry was largely in their hands. They also 
shared in the woollen industry as spinners, weavers and dyers. 
One-fourth of the cloth woven in York at the end of the fourteenth 
century is said to have been produced ' by women, and the 
ordinances of the Weavers' Guild (1400) provide that no woman 
should weave unless she were well taught and approved. In 
the time of Edward I., Wallingford contained as many as fifty 
women traders. There seems, therefore, no adequate ground 
for the view that working women were mainly ' unpaid domestic 
workers ' following household occupations, rather than wage- 
earners supplying a market.- The Act of 1363 restricting crafts- 
men to a single trade did not apply to women, and incidentally 
throws light upon their industrial pursuits. ' But the intent of 
the king and of his council is that women, that is to say brewers, 
bakers, carders, and spinners, and workers as well of wool as of 
linen cloth and of silk, brawdesters and breakers of wool, and 
all other that do use and work all handiworks, may freely work 
and use as they have done before this time.' . . . Of the various 
industries in which craftswomen were engaged, we hear most 
about silk-weaving. ... In 1370 a merchant of Lombardy was 
indicted upon a petition presented to the king ' by the poor 
women called silk- women ' on the ground that he engrossed all 
the silk raw and spun in order to raise the price." 

A passage quoted by Unwin (14) shows that in 1585 " wenches " 
were employed as felt makers. Ramazzini writes at the end of 

* By an ordinance passed in London, 1390, the masters of the craft 
were ordered to scrutinise not only men but also " women undertaking 
cures or practising the art of surgery " (19). 



THE MIDDLE AGES 217 

the seventeenth century in Italy that " the country women in 
winter time, when not employed in tilling the ground, weave 
linen or flaxen webs " (33). The extent to which unmarried 
girls were employed in spinning has passed into" the language of 
the country in the word " spinster " ; and we find that " in 1760 
spinning and weaving were domestic industries, carried on, that 
is, in the homes of the workers. The women and children in 
farmhouses and cottages spent their spare time in spinning. 
The implements used in the cotton manufacture remained nearly 
as simple as those of the Homeric age, save that weaving had 
been facilitated by the use of the fly-shuttle " (4). Abram (19), 
comparing the position of women in the later Middle Ages with 
that of women to-day, writes : " A surprisingly large number 
of callings were open to women, and they availed themselves 
freely of openings in agricultural and industrial pursuits. A 
much larger proportion of them than of the women of the present 
day appear to have been engaged in agriculture, and in rough 
unskilled labour." Down to 1842 women -and children were 
employed continuously in coal mines. 

The way has already been referred to in which .the introduc- 
tion of mechanical power made possible the exploitation of 
cheap female labour on processes previously carried on by men, 
and finally led to the protective measures of the Factory Acts ; 
it needs no repetition. Sufficient has been said to establish that 
the work of woman has been accepted by the race throughout 
the ages, and that in England she was employed on heavy 
labour before the industrial revolution. 

The opinion expressed by Ellis (22, p. 520) is of interest when 
considering' woman's capacity for modern industrial life. He 
writes : " Savagery and barbarism have more usually than not 
been predominantly militant, that is to say, masculine, in 
character, while modern civilisation is becoming industrial, that 
is to say feminine in character, for the industries belonged 
primitively to women, and they tend to make men like women." 
There is no clear evidence that the character of the work carried 
out by women in our factories and workshops to-day is heavier 
or more strenuous than that to which they have always been 
accustomed. 



III. Lack of Morbidity and Mortality Data. 

Mortality data indicate that women resist disease better than 
men, and this fact appears even in the first year of life ; " tenacity 
of life, in fact, appears to be greater among women than among 
men, and I know of few facts in biology more remarkable " (6). 



218 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 



These data do not tell us the exact effect of industrial work upon 
women ; and there are in this country no mortality or morbidity 
data from which the effect of occupation upon women' can be 
estimated. Such data, ow r ing to the temporary nature of 
women's employment, are difficult to compile ; marriage and 
other domestic ties are constantly withdrawing women from 
occupation, who probably do not on an average remain under 
industrial influences for as long as ten years. While, however, 
this period is short compared with that of the male who continues 
to be employed all his life, it results in a larger proportion of the 
general female community having passed through a period of 
industrial life than is at any one time employed. Thus, if the 
average length of life ahead of females at fifteen years of age is 
a further forty years, only ten of which are spent in industry, 
then the number of females employed at any one time represents 
a much larger number of women who have in their time passed 
through the industrial mill ; and the influence of industrial 
conditions upon the female population is considerably greater 
than that which the actual number of employed women repre- 
sents. The results which accrue are to be sought for at later 
ages of life ; but the difficulty of obtaining accurate statistical 
information is practically insuperable. 

What information is available indicates that women in industry 
lose more time than do men ; the witnesses before the War 
Cabinet Committee on Women in Industry generally agreed 
that men are the best timekeepers, boys next, and women last ; 
and Loveday has shown (7) that lost time represents either 
sickness or a feeling of ill-being and fatigue prodromal to 
sickness. 

Professor F. S. Lee quotes (5) the following figures from the 
Local Sickness Experience of Leipsic, which show that after the 
age of twenty years women suffer more sickness than men : 

TABLE 1. Cases of Sickness per 100 Persons. 



Age group. 


Men. 


Women. 


Under 15 


38-0 


29-0 


1520 


37-6 


36-4 


2025 


36-3 


42-1 


2535 


38-0 


50-2 


3545 


44-3 


55-3 


4555 


51-7 


54-3 


5565 


60-2 


54-9 


6575 


75-7 


66-6 



FEMALE STRENGTH 



219 



There is a tendency for sickness to affect different systems of 
the body in the two sexes ; and some indication is given in the 
appended table (5). 

TABLE 2. Proportionate Sickness of the National Union 
of Clerks. 



Part affected. 


191214. 


191517! 


Male. 


Female. 


Male. 


Female. 


Throat and chest . 


55-2 


51-2 


58-8 


47-8 


Stomach and abdomen . 


11-1 


6-8 


9-2 


15-0 


Nervous system 
Miscellaneous 


9-1 
24-6 


13-7 
28-3 


10-0 
22-0 


13-4 
24-0 



IV. Physical Capacity. . 

Woman is not usually as tall or as strong as man. But she 
is not merely a srhaller edition of the male ; she is built on 
rather a different model. Her trunk is proportionately rather 
longer, and her arms, legs, hands and feet shorter ; the fore- 

TABLE 3. Strength of Males and Females contrasted. 



Strength 
in Ibs. (draw- 
ing power). 


r tMutsiiucigt; ui 


Males. 


Females. 


150 


3 




140 


3 





130 


1 





120 


1-0 





110 


1-2 





100 


4-9 





90 


15-1 


4 


80 


19-8 





70 


34-9 


8 


60 


16-7 


2-1 


50 


4-6 


10-4 


40 


9 


41-9 


30 


2 


40-7 


20 





3-7 




100-0 


100-0 



220 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

TABLE 4. Relation of Strength to Weight in Males and Females. 





Average weight. 


Average strength. 
(As of pulling a bow. ) 


Age last 
















birthday. 






Proportion 








Males. 


Females. 


of female 


Males. 


Females. 








to male. 






15 


102-7 


104-8 


102 


52-2 


29-6 


16 


119-0 


112-7 


95 


58-2 


31-8 


17 


130-0 


114-9 


88 


67-8 


33-9 


18 


137-4 


117-7 


86 


74-2 


38-9 


19 


139-6 


123-7 


89 


76-4 


40-8 


20 


143-3 


123-2 


86 


77-9 


42-0 


21 


145-2 


121-2 


83 


80-2 


41-9 


22 


146-9 


124-2 


85 


81-7 


42-9 


23 


147-8 


126-4 


86 


79-7 


38-5 


24 


148-0 


120-6 


81 


80-9 


39-2 


25 


, 149-2 




^ 
/ 






26 

27 


151-7 
152-3 fS 


120-1 


79 ( 


83-5 


40-8 


28 


153-9 1 ^ 




1 






29 


154-2 o 




1 






30 


159-8 g 


121-1 


} 






35 


164-3 ^ 




( 


77-5 


46-2 


40 


163-1 


118-6 


} 






50 


166-1 








76-5 ( 


OQ T 


60 


158-1 








74-6 j 


OO'l 



and legs are proportionately shorter relative to the upper 
arms and thighs ; and the whole lower extremity is shorter 
relative to the upper extremity (21). The claim is made (22, 
Chapter XVI.) that structurally woman is not so differentiated 
as man, that she exhibits fewer and less marked variations from 
the mean, is nearer to the child, and represents the more 
stable portion of the race. Pearson dissents (28) from this 
claim that there is any less variability among women, and the 
researches upon new-born infants of Montague and Holling- 
worth (27) are in agreement with his view that there is no 
difference in variability between the sexes. The question is 
here, perhaps, of no great fundamental importance. What 
concerns us is that anatomically woman possesses certain 
structural characteristics, and these characteristics are held to 
affect her capacity for activity. Efforts ha ve^ been made to 
measure the physical capacity of the two sexes by strength tests 
and athletic achievements. 

Strength. Vernon, when giving evidence before the War 



FEMALE CAPACITY 



221 



Cabinet Committee on Women in Industry (5), put in the above 
data (see Tables 3 and 4) from the report of the Anthropometric 
Committee of the British Association. 

These figures suggest that women, even when of the same 
weight, only possess a little over one half the physical power 
of men. 

Where women have been employed on the same work as 
men, say in brickmaking, their output on the average does not 
exceed three-fifths that of men, and this proportion probably 
represents not unfairly the relative physical capacity of the two 
sexes. 

Thomas quotes (2, p. 21) the following strength tests, expressed 
in kilograms, made on 2,300 Yale students, and on 1,600 women 
of Oberlin College: 





Back. 


Legs. v 


Bight 
forearm. 


Men 
Women 


153-0 
54-0 


186-0 
76-5 


56-0 
21-4 



Athletic Capacity. Thomas gives the following comparison of 
athletic records : 





Yale. 
(Men.) 


Vassar. 
(Women. ) 


100-yard dash 
Running broad jump 
Running high jump 
220-yard dash 


lOf seconds. 
23 feet. 
5 feet 9 inches. 
22f- seconds. 


13 seconds. 
14 feet 6| inches. 
4 feet 2i inches. 
36 seconds. 



Vernon has also contrasted (5) certain athletic records of the 

two sexes : 





Man. 


Woman. 


SJD 
| (100 yards 


59-0 seconds. 


75-4 seconds. 


-: 300 yards 


3 minutes 30 seconds. 


4 minutes 25*4 seconds, 


g ( Plunging 


82 feet 7 inches. 


60 feet inches. 


Longest golf driver j 


395 yards. j 
388 yards. \ 


254 yards. 
234 yards. 



222 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

Lack of Training. The structural differences already referred 
to between the sexes go some way to explain this lack of female 
athletic excellence. But the physical inferiority of women 
here shown is probably exaggerated, since only a few women 
devote as much time to athletic exercises as do men, and practice 
is known to have a marked influence both on muscular activity 
and on performance. Nevertheless, in considering the capacity of 
women to-day for industrial work it has a definite significance, 
since most women up to the time they enter factory life will have 
lived a more or less sedentary or domestic life without the habit 
of active and regular exercise. 

This lack of physical training, rather than lack of structural 
physical capacity, is of great importance in relation to industrial 
activity and fatigue. Employers should be mindful of it, and 
let the new worker down lightly at first, while she is becoming 
acclimatised to factory life and learning to use her muscles. 
Such training, in tempering the wind to the shorn lamb, is 
needed throughout the labour world, but is especially needed 
for female labour. 

Possibly, lack of physical power is the reason why females 
react more readily even than males to the interpolation of short 
rest pauses during long spells of work, and also to intervals for 
taking light refreshment, such as a cup of tea. 

Liability to Hernia. In one respect woman possesses an 
anatomical advantage over man, owing to the occlusion of the 
inguinal canal which renders her practically free from one of 
the serious dangers associated with the strain of heavy work, 
viz., the danger of inguinal hernia. Woman is, it is true, more 
liable to femoral hernia ; but this condition is comparatively 
rare. 

What she gains in this respect, however, the multiparous 
woman, with relaxed pelvic ligaments, loses from her tendency 
to procidentia or vaginal hernia, and to umbilical hernia. This 
tendency should be guarded against; by not employing on heavy 
work women who have borne several children. 

Liability to Fatigue. Women generally are suited to work of 
a more continuous character than are men, but whether they 
tire sooner or not is difficult, to answer with certainty. Ellis (22) 
states, " When women are working at their own natural level 
of energy, they tire less quickly than men do when working 
at their natural level of energy ; but when women attempt to 
work at the masculine level of energy they tire very much more 
rapidly than men." We incline to agree with the opinion here 
quoted, but recognise that the problem does not lend itself to 
simple experiment. 



MALE AND FEMALE BLOOD 223 

In order to test it the process investigated would require to 
be repetitive and so light as to be well within the physical 
capacity of both sexes, but men are seldom employed on such 
light work, and even then, failing a physiological test of fatigue, 
when the output of one or other group fell off, the observer, if 
the falling off occurred among males, could not be certain whether 
it was due to physical tiredness, that is, fatigue, or to psycho- 
logical tiredness, that is, ennui. 

V. Physiological Characteristics. 

The Blood. As organic life passes from cold-blooded to warm- 
blooded animals, from low forms to higher, possessing greater 
activity, the blood changes its characters, and, according to 
Thomas, " rich, red blood characterises the forms of life fitted 
for activity and bursts of energy " (2). This author has looked 
into the question of the existence of any differences between* 
male and female blood, seeking therein for an indication of the 
respective capacity of the two sexes for physical work. He 
writes as follows : 

" In his exhaustive work on the blood Hay em has given a 
summary of the results of the investigations of chemists and 
physiologists on the differences in the composition of the blood 
in the two sexes. Contrary to the assertion x>f Robin, Hayem 
finds that the white corpuscles are not more numerous in 
women than in men, and he also states that the number of 
haematoblasts is the same in the two sexes. All chemists are 
agreed, however, that the number of red corpuscles Is greater 
in men than in women. Nasse found in man 0-05824 of iron 
to 100, and in woman only 0-0499. Becquerel and Rodier 
give 0-0565 for man, 0-0511 for woman, and Schmidt, Scherer, 
and others give sirriilar results. Welcker (using a chrono- 
meter) found between the corpuscles of man and woman the 
relation of 5 to 4-7, and Hayem confirmed this by numeration. 
Cadet found in woman on the average 4-9 million corpuscles 
per cubic millimetre, and in man 5-2 million. More recently 
Korniloff, using still another method the spectroscope of 
Vierordt has reached about the same result. The proportion 
of red blood corpuscles varies according to individual constitu- . 
tion, race and sex In robust men Lacanu found 136 red cor- 
puscles in 1,000 ; in weak men, only 116 in 1,000 ; in robust 
women, only 126 in 1,000; and in weak women, 117. . . . 
There is no more conclusive evidence of an organic difference 
between man and woman than these tests of the blood. They 
permit us to associate a high specific gravity, red corpuscles, 
plentiful haemoglobin, and a katabolic constitution " (2). 



224 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

Evidence, as quoted, with respect to the blood points to 
woman being rather less fitted than man for a life of physical 
activity and bursts of energy, but the data are far too scanty 
to warrant firm conclusions. 

Varicose Veins. Many processes entail long periods of 
standing, and the claim has been made that such work is espe- 
cially detrimental to women because of their tendency to 
develop varicose veins. Long periods of standing do have this 
effect, and every effort should be made to study each process 
to ascertain how far standing is an absolute necessity, and 
whether without interference to the work seats cannot be 
provided for regular or, at any rate, intermittent use. The 
frequency with which varicose veins occur in young adult males 
and females is possibly not very different. Data on this point, 
derived from hospital out-patient departments, where the bulk 
of patients seeking treatment for pronounced varicose con- 
ditions are women, are misleading, because the importance 
of a varicose condition is greater to the female on account 
of the tendency to phlebitis and phlegmasia alba dolens at 
childbirth, as the majority of the cases are in multiparous 
women: 

Whatever be the relative frequency of varicose veins in the 
two sexes, the relative importance of the condition is far 
greater for the woman ; every effort should, therefore, be made 
to relieve her from the necessity of standing during prolonged 
operations. This is important when organising her industrial 
work. 

Nutrition. The work of Du Bois made it probable that the 
energy transformation going on when a person is resting is not 
equal in men and women of the same bodily dimensions. If 
the heat liberated from the body of a resting man be compared 
with that set free by a woman of the same age, weight and 
height, the man is usually found to exceed the woman to the 
extent of some 5 to 8 per cent. Benedict and Harris (36) have also 
found a sexual difference.* Women have a greater tendency to 
put on fat than men. This fact is recognised in standards of art 
wherein the rounded contour of the female form is accepted to 
be more graceful than that of man. Here is an outward expres- 
sion of woman's greater power of endurance and reserve energy ; 
she possesses a greater amount of reserve material to call upon. 
Ellis (22) quotes from Bischoff the following relation of muscles 
to fat in a man of thirty-three, a woman of twenty-two, and a 

* They found that the basal heat production per square metre of body 
surface per diem was 7577 calories less in women than in men ; no 
difference could be detected between male and female infants. 



NUTRITION 



225 



boy of sixteen, all of whom died accidentally and in good 
physical condition : 





Man. 


Woman. 


Boy. 


Muscle . 


41-18 


35-8 


44-2 


Fat ... 


18-2 


28-2 


13-9 


Percentage of fat . 


30-6 


44-1 


23-9 



Women, probably as a result of this physiological fact, are 
more casual than men about their food, and are inclined to rely 
too much on such unsubstantial diet as tea, bread and butter, 
sweets, pastry and tinned fruit. " Most working women," 
writes Dr. Janet Campbell (15), "have never acquired the habit 
of taking solid and regular meals, partly because when food is 
not abundant the woman goes short rather than the man." 
Woman cannot continue to live on her reserves, always, and her 
tendency to attempt the impossible requires to be counteracted 
when she is regularly employed. Digestive disturbances are not 
unusual among working women (though not so common as 
among domestic servants and sedentary women), and the 
common causes, writes Dr. Campbell, " are dietetic, e.g., insuffi- 
cient, unsuitable, or improperly prepared food, the persistent 
use of certain unwholesome articles of diet, such as strong tea, 
unduly rich substances or food containing excess of carbo- 
hydrates " (15, p. 149). If industry employs women, and 
desires their work, cognisance must be taken of this sex ten- 
dency, and it must be guarded against. For this reason the 
provision of substantial and adequate food through industrial 
canteens is even more necessary for women than for men. 

If nutrition is supervised, the above mentioned tendency is no 
bar to the employment of women. 

Menstruation. The chief trouble the industrial woman has 
to face is menstruation, which affects her for two or three days 
in each month. According to Ho well (16), "At the time of or 
in the period just preceding the menstrual flow there is usually 
a more or less marked sense of ill-being or despondency, and a 
diminution in general efficiency. On the other hand, Mrs. 
Hollingworth, who leans to the view that the periodic incapacity 
of woman is a legend originating with males, but based upon no 
reliable or expert knowledge, has, after close investigation, in 
which motor fatigability was specially considered (30), con- 
cluded that " careful and exact measurement does not reveal 
a periodic mental or motor inefficiency in normal women ; the 



226 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

variability of performance is not affected by physiological 
periodicity, and no agreement is established between curves 
plotted for pulse, blood pressure, temperature, caloric radiation, 
etc., and the curves of work for the mental and motor traits 
tested." Lee (20, p. 59), remarks in comment, " Notwith- 
standing this conclusion, apparently justified from the results 
that were obtained by the methods used, one of my graduate 
students, Miss Epstean, in an investigation of the total strengi h 
of ten healthy young women, conducted by means of almost 
daily tests with the spring balance method extending over five 
months, reveals an average loss of muscular strength of about 
5 per cent, during the menstrual days." While the exact effect 
upon physical activity (see also infra, p. 234) would appear to be 
sub judice, most women undoubtedly do not feel so well at these 
times, and due allowance should be made for the fact. The 
natural tendency not to speak of the matter to a male is one 
reason for employing women doctors, welfare supervisors and 
charge hands at factories where many women are at work. 

Menstruation is a normal function, and the question to be 
answered is whether it is adversely affected by industrial work. 
While there is not to-day any sufficient body of statistical data 
to throw light on this question, a' reasonable reply can be given. 
Physicians have long recognised that cases of dysmenorrhoea 
among better class patients are benefited and often cured by 
a course of physical exercises, such as cycling, tennis or golf, 
the result being due, apparently, to more vigorous circulation 
of the blood and an increase in muscular tone. The observation 
is no new one, for Ramazzini, in 1700, wrote, " Besides the 
profits of weaving, women generally reap this advantage from it, 
that their menstruation is easy ; for it rarely happens that 
women thus employed have their menses suppressed. . . . 
So that when young women complain to me of the irregular or 
inordinate discharges of their menses, I generally advise, them 
to consult with working women, or those employed in weaving, 
rather than with physicians " (33). Investigations during the 
war among female munition workers, many of whom had not 
previously been engaged upon regular physical work, pointed 
in the same direction ; menstruation, notwithstanding long 
hours of work, tended to be more regular and less painful. 
But where long hours were associated with unusually heavy 
work, that is to say, where physical fatigue was a pronounced 
factor, some increase in dysmenorrhoea occurred. 

The opinion expressed by Dr. Mock, an industrial surgeon of 
long experience in America, is of value : " Constant standing is, 
undoubtedly, fatiguing to most women workers, but of the two 



ANEMIA 227 

evils constant sitting is the worse. The congestion of the pelvic 
organs by this practice, and the tendency toward constipation 
because of lack of exercise, causes many pathological conditions 
to develop in the generative organs of women. The congestion 
and constipation also tend to develop haemorrhoids. Backaches, 
pains in the legs and many ill-feelings can be traced to constant 
sitting. The ideal work for woman will enable her to stand 
part time and sit part time. If she can move about while at 
work it is even better. In the departments where the work 
permits this I have found at least 50 per cent, less absenteeism 
on account of dysmenorrhoea than in those departments where 
the girls sat constantly at work " (31). 

The conclusion may be drawn that well organised indus- 
trial employment is not detrimental to menstruation and may be 
beneficial. 

Anaemia and Digestive Disturbances. Closely associated with 
menstrual troubles is the condition of anaemia, which is much 
more prevalent among young women than young men, and is 
frequently associated with amenorrhcea, and also with menor- 
rhagia. Anaemia is not, however, only to be found among girls 
industrially employed ; on the contrary we incline to the view 
that it is less prevalent among them than among domestic 
servants and others who live a less regular life. Many authorities 
have held that constipation is the most frequent cause of anaemia ; 
and constipation is less frequent among females taking regular 
exercise and living an ordered day than among those whose 
exercise is irregular and mealtimes too frequent. One of us, 
while working at a hospital in an industrial area, frequently 
pointed out that the cases admitted of serious anaemia and 
gastric ulcer were always domestic servants. There was a fair 
proportion of female labour in the district employed for poor 
pay and long hours at heavy work, making chains and bricks, 
and at galvanising hollow ware, but anaemia was rare among 
these workers and gastric ulcer non-existent. It should, how- 
ever, be pointed out that these workers, in addition to the 
advantages arising from regularity of life, were employed in 
places often open to the air, where the general ventilation and 
movement of air were good, and that anaemia is more prevalent 
among girls employed at sedentary work in ill-ventilated and 
badly-lighted workshops. Improved ventilation and the ad- 
mission of more daylight and sunshine, associated with oppor- 
tunities for exercise, do much to improve such conditions ; 
still better results will be attained by the provision and regular 
use of satisfactory sanitary accommodation (see p. 341). 

Anaemia is more prevalent among women than men, but the 



228 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 



underlying causes do not appear to be aided more by industrial 
occupation than by other modes of life. 

Respiration. Two types of respiratory movement are recog- 
nised, abdominal due to contraction of the diaphragm, and costal 
wherein movement of the ribs is the distinguishing factor. At 
rest the normal type of breathing in the male is abdominal ; but 
during exertion respiration become costal as well. Breathing 
among women of the white races is costal in character, even when 
at rest, and Hutchinson considered that it indicated a secondary 
sexual characteristic. Later observations, however, among 
white women who habitually wear loose clothes, and Indian and 
Chinese women who never use stays, have shown that in these 
women breathing is normally abdominal like that of a man, 
and supports the view that costal breathing in the female is the 
result of fashion, and is in no way a sexual characteristic. 

There can be little doubt that women who carry on manual 
work would be well advised to wear loose clothing ; for as a 
result of costal breathing the number of respirations taken by a 
woman is slightly greater than that of a man ; while her basal 
metabolic activity, measured by consumption of oxygen and 
production of carbonic acid, is less than that of a male of equal 
weight (vide, supra, p. 224). Given this alteration in dress, 
breathing supplies no reason against the industrial employment 
of women. 

Shock. The extent of shock, following upon trauma, varies 
with different forms of life. Max Bartels has expressed it : " the 
higher the race, the less the tolerance, and the lower the 
culture-condition in a given race, the greater the tolerance " 
(2, p. 36). 

Here again, as in the case of the blood, woman is claimed to 
be less differentiated than man, and to sustain shock better. 
Ellis (22) quotes from Legouest the following figures in support 
of this view : 



Amputations. 


Males. 


Females. 


Cases. 
Deaths 


1,244 
441 


284 
83 


Percentage of deaths . 


35-5 


29-3 



The balance, 6 '2 per cent., is in favour of women and does not 
provide any justification for excluding women from employment 



MATERNITY 229 

on account of any increased risk run through sustaining 
injuries. 

Maternity. No precise data have been collected which throw 
light on the influence of physical labour on maternity. In so 
far as industry supplies healthy exercise, its influence may be 
beneficial. But attention should be paid to Ellis's remark : 
" I have noticed that well-developed muscular and athletic 
women sometimes show a very marked degree of uterine, as 
well as vesical, inertia in childbirth, while on the other hand the 
processes of parturition are often carried out in the most admir- 
ably efficient manner in fragile women who show a minimum 
development of the external muscles." In support of this 
observation one of us recalls attending in her confinements a 
finely developed patient among the first flight of lawn tennis 
players ; each confinement was long and tedious, followed by 
serious postpartum haemorrhage ; while, in contrast, the confine- 
ments of another well-to-do patient, lame from infantile hemi- 
plegia, were rapid, easy, and without complication. Probably 
the explanation lies in the difference between the voluntary and 
involuntary muscular systems ; development of the voluntary 
muscles does not necessarily affect the involuntary muscles. 

The fact of woman's potential or actual motherhood, writes 
Dr. Janet Campbell (3) " necessarily governs to a large extent 
her industrial power, efficiency and value. It wholly prevents 
absolutely equal competition in industry, and though undue 
weight should , not be given to possible impairment of the 
maternal function which may arise from circumstances connected 
with the nature of the employment, it cannot be disregarded if 
women are to be employed under the conditions most appropriate 
to them, not only as individuals, but also with a view to the 
future and well being of the race as a whole." Industry in 
accepting female labour as part of its organisation's bound to 
accept woman as a woman with her sex responsibilities, and to 
take steps to this end. Possibly at some future time the 
industrial employment of married women and the mothers of 
young children may be curtailed ; but difficulty must arise in 
limiting the opportunity for earning a livelihood for the un- 
married mother and the widow left to provide for a young family. 
Certainly, to-day, a responsibility rests with those who employ 
female labour ; this was recognised during the war in this 
country, and also in France and in Germany. The responsibility 
is twofold : (1) on behalf of the expectant mother ; and (2) on 
behalf of the children of working mothers. 

" Care of the Expectant Mother." The only restriction placed 
to-day in this country on employment in relation to pregnancy 



230 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

is the prohibition (sec. 61, Factory and Workshop Act, 1901), 
which lays down that " an occupier of a factory or workshop 
shall not knowingly allow a woman or girl to be employed therein 
within four weeks after she has given birth to a child." The 
International Labour Conference, held in 1919, at Washington, 
has recommended women should not be employed for'six weeks 
before ami six weeks after childbirth, and should be paid full 
wages during this time ; but at present there is no restriction on 
the employment of pregnant women, and the custom has been 
for them to continue at work right up to the time of confinement. 

Previous to wartime the work undertaken by women was, for 
the most part, sufficiently light to permit of this custom ; but 
when women were called upon to undertake heavier tasks this 
was felt to be injudicious, and many managers dismissed-pregnant 
women as soon as the condition was obvious. We consider such 
dismissal wrong ; it does not benefit the pregnancy, since mis- 
carriages generally occur in the earlier months before the con- 
dition is definitely recognised ; a reasonable amount of active 
exercise for a pregnant woman is beneficial rather than the 
reverse ; the expectant mother requires not less but rather more 
earnings for the next four or five months to feed herself well and 
lay by for her confinement ; she should be encouraged to regard 
her condition as normal and physiological ; she requires for the 
next few months more sympathetic consideration. Instead of 
dismissal lighter work should be found which after the seventh 
month should be of a sedentary character. Just before the 
cessation of hostilities the Ministry of Munitions were developing 
for munition workers a scheme whereby a light employment 
depot was established, where overalls and gloves were made and 
mended and other sewing work was done by expectant mothers 
drawn from several factories in a district. The hours of work 
were shorter than normal, and the workers were paid on a time 
basis. Milk was given in the morning, a good meal mid-day, 
tea in the afternoon, and a rest room provided. The health of 
the women was supervised by a sympathetic matron, who inquired 
into the home conditions and arrangements made for confine- 
ment. The women readily availed themselves of these facilities ; 
lost time was negligible, and work was so well done that the 
depot was a financial success. 

" Care of the Children of Working Mothers." Such a depot 
should have attached to it a breast-feeding nursery, and the 
women after confinement should, if they intend to resume 
industrial work, be induced to return with their babies to the 
depot, and continue on light work, time being allowed out of 
working hours for breast-feeding until the babies are weaned. 



FEMALE MORTALITY 231 

This scheme of establishing a light employment depot for 
several factories or even for a district has advantages compared 
with that followed in France where each factory was called 
upon to provide a breast-feeding nursery, the mothers being 
employed at their usual work for the normal hours of the 
factory. 

We recognise that maternity must be a serious handicap to the 
industrial employment of women, and feel that married women 
with families should so far as is possible be relieved of any 
necessity to seek employment. Their contribution to the 
community is amply fulfilled in the production and upbringing 
of healthy children, the greatest source of wealth' a nation can 
possess. 

When social conditions lead to their employment, and in order 
to meet the need of the unmarried mother, we advocate the 
establishment in industrial districts of light employment depots 
with nurseries attached. 

General Resistance to Disease. The statement that woman is 
less resistant than men to environmental conditions and toxic 
influences has been made so often that it has passed into occupa- 
tional literature almost unchallenged. But when the evidence 
upon which it is based is sought for it is found to be flimsy and 
open to other interpretations ; and the whole question calls for 
careful consideration. On a priori grounds (dangerous grounds 
upon which to build a conclusion), since woman, as has been 
pointed out, is claimed to be the more stable of the two sexes, 
possessing a greater anabolic surplus, she might be expected to 
be more resistant. 

Certainly mortality statistics justify the contention that she 
is more resistant, and possesses greater longevity. The greater 
strain and stress of male life has, however, been blamed for the 
inferior position of males as compared with females in mortality 
rates ; and the suggestion is made that if females were exposed 
to similar risks they would succumb equally readily. We have 
already, when discussing tuberculosis, seen reason to give modified 
support to this suggestion. But reference to the data given 
below shows that up to the age of ten years, while the exposure 
of the two sexes to risk must be considered about equal, the male 
mortality is in proportion as much in excess of the female as at 
any later age. At later ages the risks associated with childbirth 
in the case of adult females may also be fairly set against the 
occupational risks of the male. We have been unable to satisfy 
ourselves that there is any statistical proof of woman possessing 
any general inferiority in succumbing to disease compared with 
males. 



232 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 



Death rates per 1,000 among males and females in England 
and Wales, 183887 (17) : 



Age period. 


Males. 


Females. 





70-1 


60-3 


5 


7-9 


7-7 


10 


4-4 


4-6 


15 


6-2 


6-7 


20 


8-3 


7-9 


25 


9-5 


9-5 


35 . 


13-1 


12-1 


45 


18-9 


15-6 


55 


32-8 


28-0 


65 


67-6 


59-8 


75 


147-7 


134-3 


85 and over . 


313-5 


288-1 


All ages 


22-8 


20-8 



Morbidity data on the other hand definitely indicate that 
working women suffer more sickness than men, and that cases of 
illness are more prolonged. The tendency to be sick, like the 
tendency to death, varies with age, and is twice as great at 
forty -five years of age as at twenty -five ; statistics of morbidity 
must, therefore, always be distributed according to age. Lee (5) 
quotes the statistics of the Local Sickness Experience of Leipsic 
given on p. 218. 

Rusher (37) gives the following figures from Sutton's Friendly 
Society Records : 



Ages. 


Rates of sickness per member per 
annum. 


Males. 


Females. 


1856-60. 


1861-70. 


1856-75. 


2029 
3039 
4049 
5059 
6069 


0-902 
0-988 
1-448 
2-557 
6-407 


0-973 
1-022 
1-500 
2632 
6-402 


1-092 
1-490 
2-107 
2-695 

6-688 



The female sickness in both is in excess of the male from age 
twenty to age fifty-four, i.e., during the period of the menstrual 
function. How far morbidity arises out of, or is dependent upon 
this function has never been settled. Should this interpretation 



FEMALE RESISTANCE 233 

be correct, then, after allowances have been made as indicated 
under the heading, menstruation, morbidity data do not fully 
support the claim that women are less resistant to disease than 
men. 

The statement is not infrequently made in relation to lead 
poisoning that females exhibit a sexual proclivity to plumbism. 
We hold that the effect of plumbism in causing miscarriage and 
still-birth is a sufficient reason for excluding females from 
exposure to lead dust ; but we do not feel satisfied that there is 
evidence that they fall victims more readily than men. When 
women (who by long employment had become more or less 
acclimatised, more or less immune to the influence of lead) were 
quite wisely* prohibited from work in white lead beds in 1897, 
and their place was taken by non-acclimatised men, a great rise 
of cases of plumbism occurred affecting the men. Later, as the 
causation the inhalation of lead dust became more fully 
recognised and guarded against, the case incidence fell almost 
to vanishing point. When twenty years later, during the war, 
owing to the scarcity of male labour, the employment of women 
at this work was again permitted temporarily, and non-acclima- 
tised women took the place of acclimatised men, no rise in the 
case incidence occurred. It was confidently expected that a 
rise would occur because the new workers were non-acclimatised, 
not because they were women ; and the absence of any significant 
rise was at once a tribute to the efficacy of the precautionary 
measures now adopted and to the resistant powers of women. 
On the completion of the war, the men resumed their old work ; 
during the period of war service they had lost their acquired 
immunity ; more cases of poisoning were now reported among 
the men than occurred when the women took over the work. 
The existence of greater activity in the industry in the post-war 
period must be remembered when considering this evidence ; 
but after due allowance has been made it supports the view that 
women are not more susceptible to lead poisoning than men. 

We are unaware of any scientific evidence in support of the 
alleged sexual proclivity, and regret that a case, sound in itself, 
should be supported by unsound arguments. 

VI. Psychological Aptitude. 

The Brain. The prevailing weight of the human brain varies 
in the male between 46 ozs. and 53 ozs., and in the female between 
41 ozs. and 47 ozs. There are some differences in the two sexes 
in the rate of growth of the brain ; that of a woman reaches 
maximum weight between fifteen and twenty years of age, then 



234 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

it declines until about the fiftieth year. The brain of a man is 
nearly at its maximum at twenty years of age, but continues to 
increase up to about thirty-five ; then it also declines until 
about the fiftieth year. In both sexes there is an increase again 
between fifty and sixty years of age, and then a rather rapid 
diminution with advancing years. According to Topinard (8) 
the brain of an average woman between twenty and sixty years 
of age is from 126 to 164 grams less in weight than that of an 
average man ; and from sixty years of age onwards from 123 to. 
158 grams less. 

These data are of general interest, but cannot be held to 
establish any useful comparison between the mental capacity 
of the two sexes. The female brain bears about the same 
relation to the body weight as does that of the male ; but the 
weight of the brain is a very poor measure of intelligence, and 
other tests are required to detect any characteristics distin- 
guishing the sexes. Miss Thompson has investigated (9, p. 182) 
the question by laboratory experiments, and as a result has 
expressed the opinion that " the psychological differences of 
sex seem to be largely due, not to difference of average capacity, 
nor to difference in type of mental activity, but to differences in 
the social influences brought to bear on the developing indi- 
vidual from early infancy to adult years. The question of the 
future development of the intellectual life of women is one 'of 
social necessities and ideals rather than of the inborn psycholo- 
gical characteristics of sex." 

Mrs. Hollingworth sums up (29) the question of sex men- 
tality thus : " There exist no scientific data to show (i.) diffe- 
rences in average intellect ; (ii.) differences in mental varia- 
bility ; (iii.) special causes of intellectual inefficiency affecting 
one sex but not the other ; (iv.) differences in effective or 
instructive equipment, implying a ' natuial ' division of labour. 
The division of labour between the sexes, which has existed 
through historic times and still persists, originated, so far as we 
know, in physiological, not in psychological differences." 

Psycho-neuroses. When referring to the psychological charac- 
teristics of women we must not leave unnoticed the supposedly 
heavier incidence upon them of psycho-neuroses by which we 
understand functional disorders of the intellectual and emotive 
sphere not traceable to an organic basis. Chief of these is 
hysteria, once, as its names implies, believed to be a peculiar 
privilege of women. That this disorder is not confined to 
women was clearly pointed out 250 years ago by Sydenham, but 
he admitted a greater prevalence amongst women, actually 
saying that " if we except those who lead a hard and hardy life, 



PSYCHOLOGY 235 

there is rarely one who is wholly free irom them (hysterical 
complaints)." Were the cure of hysteria so simple as is hinted 
at in the sentence quoted, it would follow that the matter is of 
slight importance to the student of industrial life. Modern 
research has, however, not guaranteed so easy a remedy, but 
has much widened the connotation of hysteria, and displayed 
the grave damage to efficiency and happiness wrought by the 
psycho-neuroses, of which popularly conceived hysteria is only 
one. 

The starting point of recent investigations was furnished by 
the work of Bruer and Freud, published in 1895 (24), which 
promulgated the hypothesis that the origin of a hysteria could 
be traced to some psychic injury of which the victim might 
be no longer conscious, but the effects of which remained 
and displayed themselves in strange forms. A fanciful analogy 
may be of service : In passing down a certain street, one is 
subjected to an unpleasant experience. The nature of the 
experience is forgotten, perhaps even that anything at all 
occurred is forgotten, but there remains a vague distaste for 
that street. Thus far we have nothing uncommon or unusual. A 
stage further and we may take pains to avoid the street without 
being able to say why. This would be set down as a harmless 
idiosyncrasy, and one's friends would quote the parallel case 
of Dr. Johnson. But when we find that, on the days of the week 
which would naturally take us to this quarter of the town, we 
have shooting pains in the leg, and, a fortiori, when we are 
afflicted with a permanent paralysis which prevents us from 
walking down that or any other street the stage of fully de- 
veloped and incapacitating illness has been reached. A whole 
conglomerate of symptoms has now formed like a cluster of 
limpets upon the submerged and forgotten rock of incident 
which happened in the street long before. 

In these general analogical terms the hypothesis, however 
valuable in the explanation and treatment of psycho-neuroses, 
cannot seem of peculiar importance in this chapter. The reason of 
its peculiar importance is that, in the experience of the physicians 
who have especially attended to the subject, the original 
injury the street incident of our parable is commonly sexual. 
In a few cases, a gross sexual trauma, e.g., assault sustained in 
childhood ; in some, an unexpected or perhaps brutal revelation 
of the physical mechanism of sex ; in others sexual incidents of 
more complex aetiology ; but, in a majority of cases, something 
sexual is claimed to be the starting point. Now, should it happen 
that, in the after-history of the person, circumstances hinder 
the free play of the normal sex impulse, the probability that this 



236 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

process of accretion to a psychic foreign body will go on, is 
strengthened. Let us change the metaphor entirely. In the 
castle of life there is a locked door which most will open sooner 
or later. Before it should be opened, some have peeped through 
the keyhole ; others have heard of what is in the chamber. 
Both classes have been affected ; most very little, but a few a 
great deal, and these are a prey to nightmares and phantasies. 
Of this minority some will be cured when the door is opened, 
and each delay in opening makes the cure harder, the under- 
growth of morbid phantasy thicker. Hence, we should expect 
that the frequency and gravity of the psycho-neuroses of com- 
mon life would be somewhat greater amongst young women 
whose occupations place an obstacle to marriage than amongst 
their sisters. 

Such we believe to be the case and we, therefore, felt ourselves 
justified in mentioning the subject, since judiciously handled at 
an early stage, psycho-neuroses, otherwise incurable, may easily 
be relieved. In the psychology of every-day life nothing is too 
trivial to merit notice ; a laughable minor eccentricity, a stammer, 
a trick of speech, may have more to do with a later incapacity 
a stiff arm or a lame leg than one supposes. Here we see 
another argument for an educated sympathetic and observant 
welfare supervisor where female labour is employed. 

We have mentioned this subject with considerable hesitation, 
since, while we have evidently no space to summarise what is 
rapidly becoming a great body of special literature, brief 
reference is eminently liable to be misleading. We do, however, 
think it right to observe that (i.) those who trace a majority of 
psycho-neuroses to the existence of a sexual motif, do not 
suppose that the cure of such conditions is obtained by simply 
prescribing marriage ; (ii.) they do not suppose that sexual 
continence is harmful to a majority or even a large minority of 
young adults ; and (iii.) they do not advocate the inculcation of sex 
knowledge by associations of amateur biologists, eugenists, and 
other well-meaning members of the middle classes upon factory 
workers, whether young men or young women. 

In so far as industrial employment raises for women any 
barrier to marriage which it does not raise for men, so far it 
influences the occurrence of female psycho-neuroses ; but we 
are of opinion that industry does not in fact raise for women a 
barrier to maxriage sufficient to make this matter an important 
reason for the non-employment of women. The numerical 
inequality of the sexes, with its predominance of women, is a 
far more potent influence among a monogamous population. 

Industrial Experience. Experience of those who are accus- 



INDUSTRIAL EXPERIENCE 237 

tomed to deal with women in employment is probably more 
valuable as an indication of their psychical capacity than any 
measurements and tests yet applied. The impression gathered 
from discussing the question with many factory managers may 
be summarised as follows : Women are more industrious than 
men ; they will continue more steadily at monotonous and 
constant repetition work, but they show less initiative and 
inventive faculty. The male tends to devise a short cut to save 
himself labour ; the female to be content with her daily round 
and common task. A boy, after acquiring proficiency at one 
process loses interest, and wants to be transferred to another ; 
a girl will remain satisfied where she is. Thomas ascribes such 
characteristics to innate tendencies arising during the evolution 
of the race, and dependent on underlying anatomical differences. 
" Man's most immediate, most fascinating and most remunera- 
tive occupation was the pursuit of animal life. The pursuit of 
this stimulated him to the invention of devices for killing and 
capture, and this aptitude for invention was, later extended to 
the invention of tools and of mechanical devices in general, and 
finally developed into a settled habit of scientific interest. The 
scientific imagination which characterises man in contrast with 
women is not a distinctive male trait, but represents a con- 
structive habit of attention associated with freer movement and 
the pursuit of evasive animal forms. The problem of control 
was more difficult, and the means of securing it became more 
indirect, mediated, reflective and inventive ; that is, more 
intelligent. 

" Woman's activities, on the other hand, were largely limited 
to plant life, to her children, and to manufacture, and the 
stimulation to mental life and invention in connection with 
these was not so powerful as in the case of man. Her inven- 
tions were largely processes of manufacture connected with her 
handling of the by-products of the chase. So simple a matter, 
therefore, as relatively unrestricted motion on the part of man 
and relatively restricted motion on the part of woman deter- 
mined the occupations of each, and these occupations in turn 
created the characteristic mental life of each. In man this was 
constructive, answering to his varied experience and the need of 
controlling a moving environment, and in woman it was con- 
servative, answering to her more stationary and monotonous 
condition " (2, pp. 293-4). 

Effect of Woman on Industry. Industry has exerted and is 
continuing to exert such a profound influence upon the conditions 
of life, that reference may here fairly be made, not merely (as 
above) to the way in which industrial occupation may affect 



238 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

women, but also to the influence women may exert on industry. 
In Chapter II. attention was drawn to the influence the industrial 
employment of women has already had upon factory legislation. 
There are those who hold that in the mind of woman, to whom 
the race is more than the individual, lies the psychic centre for 
the future. " Developing civilisation is being driven by causes 
which are inherent in a direction which is inevitable. Evolution 
will follow the line of maximum power. It is this question of 
power which will ultimately control everything. And the 
significant fact towards which we have to turn is that the 
qualities through which maximum power must express itself in 
the long sequences of the social integration, the qualities, that is 
to say, for which civilisation cries aloud now with the living 
hunger of a type in evolution, are precisely those which are 
most characteristically represented in the mind of woman " (23). 
If this opinion, which cannot be hastily brushed aside, be 
accepted, then industry, which is claimed to have been primi- 
tively developed by woman and which, we hold, has, as have 
schools, great power in cultural inheritance, will benefit from 
the mind of woman ; an influence which can only be fully 
exerted through her industrial employment. 
The conclusions which emerge are that : 
(i.) The mentality of women is as useful as that of men ; 
(ii.) The occurrence of psycho-neuroses is not a sufficient 

reason for the non-employment of women ; 
(iii.) Women possess certain characteristics of value to modern 
industry with its tendency to specialisation and repeti- 
tion work ; and 

(iv.) The influence of the employment of women upon industry 
has already, through legislation, been beneficial, and 
may be needed in the future if industry is to exert for the 
benefit of the community the influence which lies latent 
within it. 

VII. Other Considerations. 

Life outside the industrial establishment, quite apart from 
the advantages and disadvantages discussed above, demands 
special consideration in the case of the woman. From time 
immemorial woman has performed the work of the home, cooking, 
cleaning, mending, washing, bedmaking, and the care of children ; 
frequently the employed woman after leaving home in the 
morning and on return in the evening after work has to perform 
a multiplicity of household duties, not perhaps onerous in them- 
selves, but which, when added to the day's toil, considerably 
deplete her energies. 



SUMMARY 239 

This point became manifest to the Health of Munition Workers 
Committee, when investigating the question as to whether 
during the pressure of war, nightwork for women should be 
carried on for long periods, or should alternate with daywork 
every other week. The output of women on continuous night- 
shifts was found to be inferior to that of women on alternate 
night and day-shifts. The Committee concluded (18) that 
" women on continuous nightwork are likely to perform domestic 
duties, which, when they work alternately in the two shifts, is 
impracticable ; and this extra domestic strain may account for 
the inferior results of their industrial activities." In the case 
of men the inferiority of continuous night-shifts, though present, 
was less striking. " Men do not naturally take so much part in 
domestic work as women, and the temptation to burn the candle 
at both ends is, from this point" of view, smaller. On the other 
hand, the incitement to devote the time, which should be 
given to sleep, to amusement is certainly as intense among 
men as among women, so that some inferiority might be 
anticipated." 

This question of woman's domestic work cannot wisely be 
neglected ; yet the ordered routine of industrial work seldom 
permits women being employed for shorter hours than men. 
In some processes entirely performed by women this could b^e 
done ; but, in fact, industrial organisation is conservative and 
prefers to insist that all workers shall commence and leave work 
together. The ' onlooker, however. Tails to appreciate the 
necessity, and the point should be faced, that, to allow for home- 
work, women's period of work should be shorter than men's ; 
and advantage might be gained if on one day in the week, say 
Saturday, the employment of women were entirely abandoned. 

VIII. Summary. 

Productivity is the key-note of the times. Every nation is 
calling for increased production to repair the enormous destruc- 
tion the Great War has brought upon the world's wealth, i.e., 
its surplus production. No nation can afford to leave any source 
of energy unused, and certainly not half its population, unless 
an overpowering racial reason exists. 

We have attempted in this chapter a consideration of what 
innate obstacles there are to the employment of women ; and 
the evidence indicates that : 

(1) Woman throughout the centuries has been accustomed to 
physical labour at least as onerous as that of modern 
. industry. 



240 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

(2) There is a lack of accurate information as to the effect of 

occupation on women. 

(3) Woman represents the more stable portion of the race. 

(4) In proportion to her size she is not so powerful as a man. 

(5) Similarly her athletic capacity is less. 

(6) Possibly the two previous instances of proportional 

inferiority are largely due to lack of training. 

(7) Woman is less liable than man to hernia. 

(8) Woman is possibly less fitted than man for a life of 

physical activity and bursts of energy. 

(9) Varicose veins are more serious in wmen than in men. 

(10) Habits of nutrition, if supervised, are no bar to the 

employment of women. 

(11) Menstruation is not adversely affected by moderate 

physical work ; but special consideration should be 
given to women during its occurrence. 

(12) Anaemia is benefited by regular occupation. 

(13) Differences in respiration supply no reason against the 

employment of women. 

(14) Shock is not worse borne by women than men. 

(15) Industry should, especially if married women are em- 

ployed, make suitable provision for the pre-maternal 
and post-maternal periods. 

(16) There is no clear evidence that woman is less resistant 

than man to environmental conditions and toxic 
influences. 

(17) Mentally women are in their sphere as useful as men. 

(18) The occurrence of psycho-neuroses is not a bar to the 

employment of women. 

(19) Women possess certain characteristics of value to modern 

industry with its tendency to specialisation and repeti- 
tion work. 

(20) The influence of the employment of women upon industry 

has, through legislation, been beneficial. 

(21) Consideration should be given, when arranging the hours 

of work for women, to the drain upon their energies 
entailed by carrying on domestic duties in addition to 
industrial work. 



IX. Conclusion. 

We hold that the opinion expressed by Ellis (22) calls for 
support : 

" The hope of our future civilisation lies in the development 
in equal freedom of both the masculine and feminine elements 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 241 

in life. . . . We are not at liberty to introduce any artificial 
sexual barrier in social concerns. The respective fitness of men 
and of women for any kind of work or any kind of privilege can 
only be ascertained by actual open experiment. The militant 
side of primitive culture belongs to the men ; the industrial 
belongs to women." 

Further, after the evidence given above has received careful 
consideration, we find ourselves able to accept the statement 
made by Professor F. S. Lee (5) : 

" In the matter of women in industry it is necessary to accept 
the fact that men and women are not identical, and that men 
are better fitted for certain kinds of industrial occupations, 
while women are better suited to others. At the same time, 
training has tended to give a wrong conception of, rather than 
accentuate, these physiological and psychological differences, 
and the result has been that the possibilities of women's work 
have not hitherto been clearly realised." 

X. Bibliography. 

1. The Cambridge Modern History. Vol. XII., p. 762. 

2. Thomas, W. I. Sex and Society. R. G. Badger. Boston. 

- 3. Report of War Cabinet on Women in Industry. " (Cd. 135.) 1919. 

4. Hunt, W. The Political History of England. Vol. X., p. 271. 
Editors, W. Hunt and R. L. Poole. Longmans, Green & Co. 1905. 

5. Report of War Cabinet on Women in Industry. Appendices and 
Summaries of Evidence. (Cd. 167.) 1919. 

6. Campbell. H. Nervous Organisation of Man and Woman, p. 121. 
H. K. Lewis. 1891. 

- 7. Loveday. T. " The Causes and Conditions of Lost Time." 
Health of Munition Workers Committee. Interim Report on Industrial 
Efficiency and Fatigue. (Cd. 8511.) 1917. 

8. Topinard, P. Elements d Anthropologie Generate. 

9. Thompson, Helen B. The Mental Traits of Sex. The 
University of Chicago Press. 1905. 

10. Rogers,- T. E. Thorold. Six Centuries of Work and Wages. 

11. Lipson, E. The Economic History of England, p. 97. A. and 
C. Black, Ltd. 1915. 

12. Ibid., p. 300. 

13. Ibid., p. 316, el seq. 

14. Unwin, G. Industrial Organisation in the Sixteenth and 
Seventeenth Centuries, p. 134. 1904. 

v-15. Final Report, Health of Munition Workers Committee, p. 146. 
(Cd. 9065.) 

16. Howell, W. H. Textbook of Physiology. W. B. Saunders Co, 

- 17. Extracted from Elements of Vital ^ Statistics, p. 101. A. 
Newsholme. 1892. 

18. Health of Munition Workers Committee. Interim Report. 
(Cd. 8511.) 1917. 

19. Abram, A. English Life and Manners in the Later Middle 
Ages. G. Routledge & Sons. 1913. 

i.w. 16 



242 INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN 

> 20. Lee, F. S. - Tlie Human Machine and Industrial Efficiency. 
Longmans, Green & Co. 1918. 

21. Ranke, J. " Beitrage Zur Physischen Anthropologie der 
Bayern." Beitrage zur Anthropologie und Urgeschichte Bayerns, 
Vol. VIII. 

22. Ellis, Havelock. Man and Woman. 5th Edition. Walter 
Scott Publishing Co., Ltd. 1914. 

23. Kidd, Benjamin. The Science of Power. Methuen & Co., Ltd. 
1918. 

24. Freud and Breuer. Ueber Hysteric. 1895. 

25. Frazer. The Golden Bough. 3rd Edition. The Magic Art. 
Vol. I., p. 140. 

26. Op. cit. Vol. II., p. 204. 

27. Montague and Hollingworth. American Journal of Sociology. 
1914. 

28. Pearson, Karl. " Variation in Man and Woman." Chances 
of Death and other Studies in Evolution. 1897. 

29. Hollingworth, H. L. Vocational Psychology. Appleton & Co. 
New York. 1919. 

30. Hollingworth, L. S. Functional Periodicity. Teachers' Col- 
lege, Columbia University. 1914. 

31. Mock, H. E. Industrial Medicine and Surgery. W. B. 
Saunders & Co. Philadelphia. 1919. 

32. Green, J. R. A Short History of the English People. Illustrated 
Edition. Macmillan & Co. 1892. 

33. Ramazzini, B. The Diseases of Tradesmen. 2nd English 
Edition. 1746. 

34. Frazer, Sir J. G. Folk-lore in the Old Testament. Vol. II.. p. 343. 
Macmillan & Co. 1918. 

35. Gibbon, E. Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. 

36. Harris, J. A., and Benedict, F. G. A Biometric Study of Bas-al 
Metabolism in Man. Carnegie Institute. 1919. 

37. Rusher, E. A. " Historical Memorandum on Standard Sick- 
ness Tables in the United Kingdom." Industrial Fatigue Research 
Board. 1920. 



PART III 



CHAPTER X 

THE FEEDING OF THE INDUSTRIAL WORKER 

I. Introduction. II. Energy Value of Food : Energy Value of Diets ; 
Industrial Expenditure of Energy ; Energy Requirements and 
Wages ; Importance of a Diet Sufficient in Energy. HI. The 
Importance of the Constituents of a Dietary. IV. Effect of Climate 
and Occupation upon Diet. V. The Importance of Food Accessory 
Factors (Vitamines): Fat-soluble A; Water-soluble B; Anti- 
scorbutic Factor ; Origin of Vitamines ; Vitamines in Workers' 
Food. 

I. Introduction. 

ALTHOUGH before August, 1914, a not negligible proportion of 
the inhabitants of these islands was underfed, as the researches 
of Mr. Rowntree demonstrated (12), the economic and scientific 
aspects of the problem of feeding the labouring population 
acquired through stress of war a peculiar importance. The 
evils bred of war have not yet abated, there is small reason to 
expect that in the lifetime of this generation the task of feeding 
the inhabitants of Europe will become easy or fail to occasion 
great anxiety. We have here nothing to do with these larger 
issues, nor is it even our business to give an account of the general 
science and art of human nutrition. We must, however, briefly 
expose such of the scientific principles as are of cardinal im- 
portance to employer 'and operative. Food is to be studied 
from two points of view, the mechanical and the physiological. 
From the mechanical point of view we regard man as a machine, 
subject to the law of all machines that when work is performed 
fuel must be consumed ; that no more energy can be got out 
than is put in ; that we can in no wise create energy. From 
the physiological point of view we observe that not only are the 
sources of energy available to the human body limited in number, 
but that quite apart from the demands of external work per- 
formance, particular combinations of chemical elements are 
needed to prevent the disintegration of the machine. Thus it 
comes about that while carbohydrates, proteins and fats are all 
available sources of fuel, deprivation of proteins, however much 
energy be offered in the guise of fats or carbohydrates, is fatal. 
Further, other substances not sources of energy in any measurable 
sense and of unknown chemical structure, the " vitamines," are 

162 



244 THE FEEDING OF THE INDUSTRIAL WORKER 

not less essential to healthy existence. Our general problem, 
therefore, resolves itself into three problems : 

(1) What is the quantum of energy needed ? 

(2) How much protein and of what kind should be given ? 

(3) How are we to ensure an adequate supply of " vitamines " ? 

II. Energy Value of Food. 

The first of these questions has engaged more attention than 
the others, and there is a good reason for this. Owing to the 
comparatively restricted choice of dietetic constituents, the fact 
that sugar and margarine or butter are almost the only important 
sources of dietetic energy which are destitute of protein, it would 
be very difficult to contrive a dietary which, adequate from the 
energetic side, would be inadequate in respect of protein. Hence 
the aphorism : ' Take care of the calories and the protein will 
look after itself." This aphorism is, however, like most epigrams 
only part of the truth ; in particular it pays no heed to our 
third question ; still it is much more than half the truth. 

There are two ways of determining what is a diet of sufficient 
energy value. The first is to ascertain the value of the diets of 
representative samples of persons engaged in various tas.ks and 
preserving health and strength over a sufficiently extended 
period. The second is to measure directly the expenditure of 
energy by persons engaged in the several occupations. Given a 
series of standard chemical analyses, the former is a purely 
statistical, but the latter a statistico-experimental, inquiry. 

Energy Value of Diets. In the statistical study of dietaries 
the unit of reduction is the large calorie, or quantity of heat 
needed to raise the temperature of a kilogramme of water 
through a range of 1 on the Centigrade scale from 15 C. to 
16 C. It is supposed, and the supposition is just, that the only 
sources of energy in the diet which need be considered are the 
proteins, fats and carbohydrates. The energy equivalents of 
unit masses of these proximate principles are deemed to be the 
complete heats of combustion of the fats and carbohydrates, 
and the heat of combustion of a typical protein less the heat 
value of incompletely oxidised waste products of protein meta- 
bolism which leave the body unutilised. In general the energy 
value is expressed in terms of the dietetic constituents as eaten 
or, perhaps more commonly, as submitted to the process of 
cooking. Hence the diets do not represent the energy actually 
liberated within the body and capable of exploitation by the 
human machine. 

Between swallowing and assimilation a loss occurs, small in 



WOMEN'S HOSTELS 



245 



the case of sugar and most fats, but large in some articles of diet. 
There is a still greater loss in preparation (cooking). An average 
discount of 10 to 13 per cent, must be allowed to bring pur- 
chased to the dimensions of available energy.* 



TABLE 1. Women's Hostels. 







Grammes per head daily. 










Hostel 
or 
canteen. 


Numbers 
catered 
for. 




Calories 
daily. 


Cereal 
ratio. 


Bread 
per 
week. 


Report 
dated. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
















Ibs. ozs. 




A 


2600 


110-4 


113-3 


414-8 


3207 


48-6 


8 4 


24.3.17 


B 


9 


101-9 


90-9 


465-0 


3166 


56.-0 


8 4 


14.7.17 


C 


520 


159-1 


203-9 


791-6 


4154 


25-2 


3 13 


26.6.17 


D 


100 


104-9 


128-0 


366-2 


3122 


41-8 


6 


28.7.17 


E 


22 


69-1 


69-9 


295-3 


2144 


40-1 


5 10 


14.7.17 


F 


600 


125-8 


171-4 


350-6 


3547 


29-5 


.5 12 


21.7.17 


G 


4595 


98-0 


119-4 


' 363-9 


3004 


33-2 


2 8 


13.6.17 


H 


151 


125-4 


130-9 


436-0 


3519 


28-4 


4 4 


30.6.17 


1 


40 


117-3 


110-3 


395-8 


3130 


36-9, 


5 


23.6.17 


J 


370 


95-8 


126-8 


291-8 


2768 


41-1 


5 


29.4.17 


K 


441 


115-9 


137-0 


427-8 


3503 


46-4 


5 10 


13.5.17 


L 


7230 


132-7 


156-2 


476-6 


3951 


39-7 


6 4 


30.6.17 


M 


57 


146-0 


244-4 


386-3 


4455 


15-8 


3 8 


30.6.17 


N 


262 


119-2 


114-2 


462-8 


3448 


49-3 


7 3 


15.6.17 





105 


102-1 


123-4 


283-2 


2727 


29-7 


4 14 


13.6.17 


P 


105 


121-5 


151-9 


528-2 


4076 


36-6 


6 3 


11.8.17 


Q 


370 


109-4 


138-5 


326-5 


3075 


29-9 


4 1 


31 8.17 


R 


42 


104-3 


139-6 


465-0 


3632 


35-4 


4 1 


4.9.L7 


S 


35 


135-1 


214-3 


381-9 


4113 


23-5 


4 


25.8.17 


T 


1150 


121-0 


152-8 


395-6 


3539 


28-3 


3 11 


30.6.17 


V 


46 


118-1 


151-4 


625-1 


4455 


46-6 


9 13 


1.9.17 


W 


363 


112-5 


121-6 


455-6 


3460 


44-5 


7- 14 


1.9.17 


Average 




115-7 


141-3 


408-4 


3463 


36-7 


5 8 





In Table 1 are shown the energy values of a series of diets 
supplied in. English munition workers' hostels during the year 
1917, and in Jable 2 similar reductions of other diets. The 
arithmetical reduction has been effected on the lines above 
indicated ; in addition the diets of women in Table 1 have been 
reduced to " man " values by multiplying the woman's diet by 
0'80, a fraction taken to represent the average relation between 
the needs of an adult man and those of an adult woman, founded 
partly upon statistical, partly upon experimental study. Further 
investigation has slightly modified the older values of equivalents; 
those now usually adopted are reproduced in Table 3, and these 
were employed in computing Table 2.f 

* It is convenient to call the energy of the food as determined from 
analysis of the diets, gross calories, and that really available to the tissues, 
net calories. 

t Hence Table 1 slightly exaggerates the value of the women's diets. 



246 THE FEEDING OF THE INDUSTRIAL WORKER 

TABLE 2. Energy Values of Diets consumed by various 
classes before the War (Greenwood and Thompson). 

Scurce of data. Calories per " man " 

per diem. 

Mr. Rowntree's York families 

Wages not more than 265 1 . . . . 2,574 

Wages more than 26,9. . . . . 3,590 

Servant-keeping class . . . . 3,807 

Board of Trade industrials 

Wages less than 25.9. . . . 2,670 

Wages 25s. to 30,9. .... 2,879 

Wages 30s. to 35s. .... 3,036 

Wages 35s. to 40s 3,034 

Wages over 40s. ..... 3,330 

Agricultural labourers 

Northern counties ..... 3,085 

Midland counties ..... 2,868 

Eastern counties ..... 3,037 

Southern and south-western counties . 3,067 

Mr. Rowntree's data were published in 1902, the indus- 
trial and agricultural data relate to sample censuses in 
1903-4. They are discussed by Dunluce and Greenwood (3), 
but the present reduction is that yielded by the new reduction 
factors and published in the British Medical Journal (13) by 
Greenwood and Thompson. 

TABLE 3." Man " Reduction Factors. 

Energy need (that 

Age. of an adult man 

is taken as 1-00). 
5 years ..... 0-50 

610 years 0-70 

Over eleven years 

Males . . . . . - , 1-00 

Females 0-83 

The data relate to persons employed in a variety of occupa- 
tions, but the majority were engaged upon industrial tasks of 
what may be called a moderate degree of physical severity. 
The average energy value of the diets is about 3,500 calories 
per diem. This figure has long been taken as a norm of physio- 
logical energy needs, corresponding to a, 100 to 3,200 calories 
actually available in the body. Still, long before the war there 
had not been wanting physiologists who thought that this norm 
exceeded the true requirements, and the exigencies of wartime 
focussed attention upon their arguments. Statistical averages 
of diets do not, primd facie, seem to deserve much respect. We 
all know people who consume excessive quantities of food 
without any obvious ill-effects ; we are all sensible of the immense 
influence of custom upon habits of both eating and drinking ; 
many have enjoyed a green old age in spite of attending city 



EXPENDITURE OF ENERGY 



247 



dinners. When, in addition, we note the sources of error in the 
data ; the introduction of more or less conjectural factors of 
reduction to a standard of comparison ; lack of information as 
to either the external conditions or the precise character of the 
work performed, it will be admitted that there is room for 
doubt. 

Industrial Expenditure of Energy. On this account it is 
proper to measure directly the energy expended in various kinds 
of physical work. In two departments of activity, viz., the 
cost of pedalling a bicycle, and the energy expended by soldiers 
in marching and carrying out various military exercises, the 
researches, of Benedict and Cathcart (16) and of Cathcart and 
Orr (2) have provided us with numerous data. In the industrial 
field the workers have been less successful, since the measure- 
ments are technically somewhat difficult and require time. 
The best accredited results are those of Becker and Hamalainen, 
of Rosenheim, and of Greenwood, Hodson and Tebb (4). In 
Table 4 we reproduce some of the results reached by the last- 
mentioned investigators, and in- Table 5 the conclusions provi- 
sionally reached by an authoritative committee of the Royal 

TABLE 4. Actual Expenditure of Energy per Square 
Metre of Body Surface per hour of Women engaged 
upon the undermentioned Processes in a Munition 
Factory (4). 



Operation. 


Number 
of Experi- 
ments. 


Number 
of 
Persons. 


Calories 
per square 
metre per 
hour. 


Light turning . 


37 


8 


96 


Turning and finishing 


36 


8 


112 


Tool setting 


25 


5 


124 


Heavy turning . 


21 


5 


123 


Forging .... 


20 


4 


114 


Cleaning and drying . 


20 


5 


182 


Gauging .... 


19 


4 


154 


Labouring- 


14 


5 


184 


Stamping. 
Walking and carrying 


12 
11 


2 
3 


127 
161 


Finishing copper bands 


6 


2 


128 


Shell hoisting (with pulley) . 


5 


1 


129 



These are observations made by the method of respiratory 
calorimetry. Note the vastly greater expenditure of energy on 
labouring (unskilled work of collecting and wheeling away rubbish ) 
than upon semi-skilled work, such as light turning, or skilled 
work, such as tool setting. 



THE FEEDING OF THE INDUSTRIAL WORKER 

TABLE 5. Daily Food Requirements 
of typical Occupations as esti- 
mated by the Food (War] Com- 
mittee of the Royal Society (7). 

MALES. 

Calories. 

Tailor 2,750 

Bookbinder .... 3,100 
Shoemaker .... 3,150 
Metal worker . . . .3,500 

Painter 3,600 

Carpenter . . 3,500 
Stonemason .... 4,850 
Woodcutter 5,500 

FEMALES. 

Hand seamstress . . . 2,000 
Machine seamstress . . . 2,200 
Charwoman . . . 2,900 3,600 
Bookbinder .... 2,300 
Typist 2,100 

These figures are only to be regarded as 
rough approximations (see the Report of 
the Committee for details). 

Society (7), and based upon the experimental findings of Becker 
and Hamalainen. It is not without interest to observe that 
the average value* inferred differs little from the conventional 
3,500 calories of the text-books. One of us was led to the same 
point by wholly different data. The French physiologist, 
Amar (8), published some years ago a series of experiments upon 
the energy expenditure of Arabs pedalling a stationary bicycle. 
These observations were numerous enough to permit of mathe- 
matical graduation by a formula connecting the energy require- 
ments of the body with the thermal equivalent of the work done 
and the worker's body weight. When an estimate of the 
mechanical equivalent of a day's work was framed and its 
calorie equivalent for a seventy kilogramme man deduced from 
the formula, it appeared that a little under 3,200 net calories 
(or rather more than 3,500 calories in purchased food) were 
necessary (5). Hence, so far as our present experimental 
knowledge goes, there seems little reason to distrust the teaching 
of dietetic statistics, despite their manifold imperfections. 

Some physiologists have, however, argued that it is possible 
to alter the plane of metabolism ; that one may become accus- 

* Cathcart and Orr (2) reached 3,574 net (say 3,900 gross) calories for 
the mature army recruit, whose physical work is probably above the 
average factory requirements. 



FOOD AND WAGES 249 

tomed to a lower intake, and that the physiological machine is 
capable of adaptation to a more economical style of living. 
This matter was the object of a prolonged research carried out 
under the supervision of Dr. Benedict of the Carnegie Institute (1 ). 
The result was to show that healthy college students could 
maintain active life for several months upon a diet yielding 
fewer than 3,500 calories, and that they could do so without 
giving any sign of physical detriment. But the experiment, 
notwithstanding the care and accuracy with which it was 
carried out, took place in conditions so remote from those of 
ordinary industrial life, and was on so small a scale, that it does 
not seem to us to weaken the inference from the other statistical 
and experimental results which we have mentioned. 

In a matter of this kind to generalise from particular observa- 
tions is hazardous. In criticising dietetic statistics we omitted 
a rebutting, argument of the greatest importance. The real case 
against dietetic faddists, is expressed in the old saying that there 
is always some one wiser than even M. de Voltaire c'est tout le 
monde. In these matters, the average experience of a sample of 
the population neither greatly oppressed by res angusta domi, 
nor seduced by the temptations of material luxury, is likely to 
be a reasonably good guide. A common habit of eating is the 
survival of generations' experience. It is not, therefore, sur- 
prising that there should be a concordance between what men 
have been observed to eat and what direct observation suggests 
they need. This is not to say that experimental observations 
are otiose. On the contrary, many more are required for the 
following reasons. 

Energy Requirements and Wages. Greenwood, Hodson and 
Tebb (4) inferred from their experiments upon female munition 
workers that the daily needs would be covered by diets yielding-, 
(in gross calories) 2,800, 3,100, 3,500 and 3,800 calories per diem. 
They remarked : " One important inference may be drawn 
from these figures. The energy requirement of the lightest 
class is about 74 per cent, of the heaviest. But the remuneration 
of the kinds of w r ork included in our heaviest class is much less 
than that of several operations needing many fewer calories. 
If we suppose that so small a sum as 10s. would purchase an 
adequate weekly diet for a member of the lowest class, then, 
assuming that the one and a half non- working days require the 
same allowance, which we may put at 1,800 calories per diem, 
for all classes, the total weekly needs are 16,615 calories and 
21,538 calories, so that the worker in the heavier class must 
spend nearly 13s. a week. The data collected by the Board of 
Trade in 1904 showed that for families in receipt of less than 



250 THE FEEDING OF THE INDUSTRIAL WORKER _ 

25s. weekly, 67 '3 per cent, of total outgoings were expended 
upon food, the proportion only falling as low as 57 per cent, in 
families earning 40s. or more weekly. Even in the families of 
the poorest class studied by Rowntree, where the expenditure 
upon food was estimated to provide less than a maintenance 
diet, 51 per cent, of outgoings were for food. The Working- 
classes Cost-df-Living Committee (14) which reported in 1918, 
provided data from which the following percentages have been 
calculated. These figures refer to families composed of 4'57, 
4 men.' Let us now suppose that the average earning, viz., 
75s. 5d. per week is adequate to maintain the minimum standard 
of comfort in such a family, and that the principal wage earner 
is a ' man ' occupied as in our lowest class. Dividing the 

TABLE 6. Proportional Expenditure upon Food, 
of Industrial Workers. (Deduced by Green- 
wood, Hodson and Tebb from the data of the 
Working Classes Cost of Living Committee, 
Cd. 8980 0/1918.) 





Percentage of total ex- 
penditure devoted to 
the purchase of food. 


1914. 


1918. 


Skilled workers . 
Semi-skilled workers . 
Unskilled workers 


54-8 
56-2 
56-7 


60-6 
63-4 
64-9 



mean income by 4 '57 and multiplying by 0'6 (on the assumption 
that the expenditure upon food is now about 60 per cent, of 
total outgoings), we find that the cost of food per ' man ' is 
almost exactly 10s. a week. If then the wage earning c man ' 
of a family similarly constituted in all other respects is in our 
heaviest physiological class, the general standard of living can 
only be maintained if the gross family income be increased by 
nearly 3s. When it is remembered that the subsidiary earnings 
of other members of the family (which have always been rela- 
tively more important in the lower grades of manual labour) 
must be reduced by the new educational proposals, the grave 
importance of taking into account the physiological element of 
working class expenditure is manifest. In any scientific 
appraisement of the income needed to maintain an agreed upon 
standard of life, it is essential to determine the minimum 



A SUFFICIENT DIET 



251 



expenditure necessitated by the occupation of the wage 
earner." 

Importance of a Diet sufficient in Energy. The period which 
has elapsed since the above words were written has increased the 
gravity of the problem and contributed nothing to its solution. 
In a few moments we shall have to speak of other aspects of the 
subject, to point out that " calories " are not everything ; but 
wanting " calories" we lack everything. Something more than 
petrol is required to run a motor car, but no mechanical skill can 

TABLE 7. Requirements in Calories of a 

Sedentary Worker under different Con- . 

ditions of Temperature and Wind 
Exposure. (Calculated by Greenwood 
and Thompson from Lefevre's Experi- 
mental Results ; the subject was a 
Clothed Man, weighing 65 kilo- 
grammes.) 



Temperature. 


Air current of 
1 metre per 
second. 


Air current of 
3-5 metres per 
second. 


-31C. 
- + 5 C. 
4- 10 C. 
+ 15 C. 


6,000 
4,500 
3,400 
2,600 


7,400 
5,200 
4,100 
3,100 



The energy is expressed as calories in food, i.e., 
as gross calories. The results have no preten- 
sion to accuracy, but they bring out the enormous 
influence of exposure to cold and illustrate the 
danger of neglecting this factor when diets are 
assigned. 

run it without petrol. The need of calories for the human 
engine is fundamental, no subtle arguments, no appeal to a 
specialised experience, no invocation of half-comprehended 
factors such as " vitamines " must be allowed for an instant 
to obscure this truth. Heavy manual work does require more 
food than black-coated " brain " work. The ill-clad girl who 
travels to her work on foot or outside a motor omnibus does need 
more calories than her sister in the motor brougham,* and the 
difference of need is expressible in money and represents a 
substantial difference. 

The retribution of neglect in this matter is slow but sure. 
An underfed industrial population does not collapse suddenly. 

* The effect of exposure to cold is brought out in Table 7. 



252 THE FEEDING OF THE INDUSTRIAL WORKER 

As a writer early in the last century put it : " It is a popular 
saying, that hunger will break through stone walls, by which it 
is implied, that its calls cannot be resisted and that the most 
difficult obstacles will be overcome to satisfy it. This may be 
true of hunger induced by sudden fasting occurring to persons 
in good health, but it is very far otherwise when an individual is 
suffering gradually and becoming exhausted by slow degrees 
from a long continued deficiency of food or the use of a very 
impoverished diet. In such cases, when the health begins to 
decline, mental obtuseness and diminished sensibility follow ; 
all the sensations are blunted, and the feeling of hunger being 
feebly experienced, no very strenuous efforts are made to allay 
it " (9). In short, the consequences of under-nutrition are a 
slowly progressive decline of efficiency. Unless the deficit is 
qualitative as well as quantitative, there will be no dramatic 
incidents. Morbidity will increase, but there will be no new or 
strange diseases, merely an increased toll taken by the customary 
kinds of sickness. 

This branch of the subject is so commonplace, it offers so few 
scientific novelties, such scanty occasions for the exercise of 
intellectual ingenuity, that we cannot expect the reader to be 
greatly interested. We must, however, reiterate that unless the 
quantum of energy in the form of attractive and digestible food 
is supplied, all other applications of hygiene to the lives of 
industrial workers are mere trifling. Having dealt with the 
quantitative side of the energy problem, we are to consider the 
form in which the " calories " should be offered. 



III. The Importance of the Constituents of a Dietary. 

Each of the three fundamental foodstuffs yields energy to the 
body ; the continued proportion o^the yields of carbohydrate 
to protein to fat is approximately 1:1: 2-1 ; but it is not a 
matter of indifference how the calories are furnished, i.e., what 
proportions of the proximate principles are chosen, so long as 
the right number of calories is secured. Although the body as 
an energy transformer has some analogy to a motor car or a 
steam engine, the analogy is imperfect. The nature of the fuel 
supplied affects the working of the machine and sets in motion 
processes which do not directly contribute to the performance of 
mechanical work. In other words, equal nunibers of calories 
offered by way of proteins, fats and carbohydrates are not 
equally useful for transformation into mechanical energy. The 
quantity diverted is greatest in proteins and least in carbo- 
hydrates ; in technical language, the specific dynamic energy of 



CONSTITUENTS OF A DIETARY 253 

proteins is maximal, i.e., a larger proportion of the calories 
rendered up in their decomposition is necessarily liberated as 
inconvertible heat energy. For this reason the brunt of the 
energy supply for work should be borne by carbohydrates. " A 
large meat diet, apart from its content of fat, is of no special 
advantage for the performance of muscular work, and is a distinct 
disadvantage when this work has to be accomplished at a high 
external temperature " (7). 

As experimental work has not revealed any very great differ- 
ence between the specific dynamic energies of fat and carbo- 
hydrate, there might seem no special advantage in taking fat in 
the diet at all, provided enough calories are furnished by the 
carbohydrate. Practical experience, however, has made it 
evident that the diets of heavy manual workers ought to contain 
a large amount of animal fat. Possibly this depends upon the 
higher yield of heat per unit mass ; possibly on the vitamine 
content of fats ; but however this may be, the fact is certain. 
The rule proposed by the Food Committee of the Royal Society 
(7) is that not less than 25 per cent, of the total calories of the 
diet should come from fat. Protein is, of course, still more 
important. This substance must be supplied in the food since 
it is the essential constituent of the living cells and cannot be 
synthesised in the body from simpler nitrogen-containing sub- 
stances.* Nature provides a wide range of proteins, but these 
are not of equal value to the body. Broadly speaking, proteins 
of animal origin are more valuable than vegetable proteins ; the 
protein of milk, for instance, is twice as valuable as that of wheat. 
Hence the minimum ration of protein is larger when the source 
is vegetable than when animal food is taken. As a practical 
rule, we may say that the average " man " needs 70 to 80 
grammes of protein daily, an amount contained in 2 Ibs. of 
bread, in 1 Ib. 2 ozs. of meat, in 10 ozs. of cheese and in 10 eggs. 
As remarked above, a diet providing sufficient calories will 
rarely or never fall short in protein ; if the energetic needs are 
satisfied the protein requirements are almost sure to be. 

IV. Effect of Climate and Occupation upon Diet. 

Appetite controls diet, and appetite is largely controlled by 
metabolic activity, which is greater in cold weather than warm. 
In hot climates where but little heat is required to maintain the 

* This statement is not strictly true, because under special conditions 
protein can be synthesised from simpler decomposition products ; and all 
ingested protein is, in the process of metabolism, split up into such bodies 
and reconstituted ; but the necessary cleavage products are themselves 
highly complex and would be more difficult to provide in a diet than native 
proteins. 



254 THE FEEDING OF THE INDUSTRIAL WORKER 

body temperature, physical exercise cannot be indulged in to 
the same extent as in temperate regions, for fear of heat stroke. 
Comparatively little food is required, and a native student in 
Singapore is content with 1,500 calories daily (23). In such 
climates cereals, such as rice, form the staple diet ; food, there- 
fore, is cheap, and wages are proportionately low. But energy 
cannot be got from the human machine unless it is first put into 
it, and here lies the explanation of the saying that cheap labour 
is expensive labour. If workers have to do heavy physical work 
they must consume an adequate amount of food. Railway 
engineers know this, and are said always to calculate that the 
labour required for constructing a mile of track costs the same 
all the world over ; an object lesson on the point occurred in 
Sicily a few years ago when railway extension was being carried 
out. The native navvies worked so much slower than the im- 
ported British workmen that serious delay resulted ; these 
natives were unaccustomed to eat much meat. The contractor 
noticing this fact began to pay them partly in money and partly 
in meat, with the result that the output of work went up almost 
to that of the British gangs. Thus was reversed the command 
of Paul that " if any would not work, neither should they eat." 

Different industries as well as climates call for different types 
of food, and any one accustomed to travel through the various 
industrial districts of this kingdom, can observe how the main 
industry of the district is represented in the types of provision 
shops in the town. In Lancashire, in the- cotton districts for 
instance, there is a noticeable scarcity of butchers' shops, while 
grocers' shops are in evidence. This may be ascribed to the way 
in which the cotton industry is carried on in the great mills, 
which are warm and often humid to allow cotton thread to work 
properly. Operatives exposed many hours of each day to such 
conditions, which somewhat resemble those of tropical countries, 
find that their appetites require tempting and do not demand 
butcher's meat. This matter will be alluded to later, p. 291, 
when the influence of ventilation comes under discussion. 
The failure of cotton operatives to attain normal stature, referred 
to on p. 291 (a failure recognised in wartime by the enlistment of 
the " bantams "), and ascribed to adverse physiological con- 
ditions and lowered metabolism, may possibly be due to a diet 
during adolescence deficient in accessory food factors, such a 
diet as the conditions of work render acceptable to the appetite. 

In the Black Country the workers, though expesed often to 
the heat of iron from the furnaces, are employed in shops open 
to the air, and carry out more physical exercise associated with 
much wear and tear on their tissues. In this part of the country 



VITAMINES 255 

the prevalence of butchers' shops is a noticeable feature in the 
towns. These two instances are extremes between which an 
ordinary agricultural market town stands. In such a town the 
demand is much more for cereal foods, bread and confectionery 
shops being more to the front. The agricultural labourer requires 
a plentiful supply of energy for his open air life, but has less 
need of repair material than industrial workers on heavy work. 

V. The Importance of Food Accessory Factors (Vitamines). 

Finally, we come to accessory substances or " vitamines," 
and cannot do better than quote the findings of the Royal Society 
Committee (7). " Practically all fresh foods contain small 
traces of substances whose chemical nature has not been deter- 
mined, but which are essential for the maintenance of health or 
for the production of growth. In their absence growth may 
cease, repair of wounds may be interrupted, or various diseases, 
such as scurvy, beri-beri, or pellagra, may be produced. A diet 
composed of preserved meats and dried vegetables infallibly 
leads in the course of a few months to disorders of nutrition. 
This generally takes the form of scurvy. Beri-beri may occur 
when the diet is too limited in scope, and is deprived of part of 
its normal constituents. Thus, this disease occurs in Chinese 
labourers fed on polished rice, but disappears when the polishings 
of the rice are added to the food. The growth " vitamine " is 
present in especially large quantity in the fats of milk. It is 
partly on this account that milk is of such vital importance for 
the nourishment of children. No child's diet can be considered 
satisfactory in which milk or milk fat is not present." 

The study of definite diseases has 4ed to the discovery of 
vitamines ; but these factors have further interest, for " there 
are some grounds for believing that the accessory food factors 
are concerned in the processes of tissue formation and repair, 
and we should therefore expect larger amounts to be necessary 
after exercise than after periods of rest. Whilst there is as yet 
practically no experimental evidence upon this point, there are 
indications based upon human experience that the demand for 
the three accessory factors is greater when work is being accom- 
plished. This probability should be borne in mind when the 
dietaries or rations of those engaged in severe manual work, such 
as soldiers and labourers, are being considered " (10). An 
instance may be given from the report here quoted. During the 
war, in a camp in Scotland, scurvy attacked eighty-seven men. 
" In this instance the first cases to develop and a large majority 
of those showing severe symptoms were among a small section 



256 THE FEEDING OF THE INDUSTRIAL WORKER 

of the inmates who were engaged in hard manual work for a few 
hours daily." This report goes on to state : " One point of 
practical importance concerned with the slow development of 
these deficiency diseases is the certainty that long before the 
symptoms of the acute disease can be diagnosed there will be a 
general, ill-defined departure from good health which may defy 
diagnosis, but which will seriously lower the well-being and 
efficiency of the individual." 

The substances here referred to are known as accessory food 
factors or vitamines (10). Three distinct and separate factors 
have now been shown to exist : (i.) fat-soluble A or the anti- 
rachitic factor ; (ii.) water-soluble B, or the antineuritic (anti- 
beri-beri) factor ; and (iii.) the antiscorbutic factor. 

Fat-soluble A. The absence of this vitamine from an other- 
wise ample dietary appears to cause rickets in childhood, while 
its introduction into the dietary prevents this disease. The 
exact effect upon adults of the absence of this body from food 
is not yet clearly understood, but there can be no doubt that 
adults fed on a diet in which it is not present would lose strength 
and vigour and be more susceptible to disease ; interest attaches 
to the fact that articles of diet containing this substance have 
for years been recognised as of paramount importance when 
dealing with consumptive patients. This vitamine is found 
associated with fats, especially with butter, cod-liver and other 
fish oils, cream, mutton and beef fat ; it is also present in eggs, 
germinating seeds and fresh green vegetables, but it is absent 
from lard and vegetable oils, such as olive oil, cotton seed oil, 
coco-nut oil, and linseed oil, and also from white flour, cornflour, 
custard powders and white fish. This body is only moderately 
resistant to heat, and exposure to. boiling point for four hours, 
destroys it. 

Water-soluble B. This food factor has been especially studied 
in connection with the occurrence of beri-beri. Further, among 
a community fed on a dietary deficient in this vitamine, some 
members of which succumbed to beri-beri, a widespread abnor- 
mality in knee-jerks and other nervous reflexes was found among 
the apparently healthy. '' This is an important observation, 
as it shows definitely that normal health may be undermined by 
a deficiency in diet before any symptoms are apparent to the 
casual observer or to the individual himself " (10). This body 
occurs plentifully in the seeds of plants, the eggs of animals and 
in yeast. It is also found in meats, beans and peas, and ger- 
minated seeds, and to a smaller extent in fresh vegetables and 
flour. It is absent from fats, white flour, custard powders and 
beer. This vitamine stands exposure to heat fairly well, and 



VITAMINES 257 

ordinary cooking which does not exceed boiling point, does not 
seem to impair its properties ; but it is damaged by alkalis, and 
for this reason green vegetables should not be boiled with sodium 
carbonate. 

Anti-scorbutic Factor. The absence of this vitamine from a 
diet is associated with another disease, namely, scurvy ; if 
introduced into the food it cures the disease. It occurs plenti- 
fully in fresh cabbages, raw swedes, orange juice, lemon juice, 
and tomatoes ; and of all the vegetables the family of the 
cruciferse, which includes the cabbages, seems to contain them 
most plentifully. Thus, the old legend that plants with a 
cruciform arrangement of the flower possess special virtue in 
the service of mankind receives scientific support. It is found 
in germinated seeds, root vegetables and lime juice, and it is 
only present to a minor degree in milk and fresh meat. It 
is destroyed by drying ; is sensitive to high temperatures, 
thus twenty minutes in boiling water seriously impairs it, and 
exposure for an hour merely to hot water has, a similar effect. 
Fresh vegetables, e.g., cabbages, should, therefore, be cooked by 
exposing them for a short time to a high temperature, rather 
than for a longer time to a lower temperature. The process of 
tinning meat destroys this vitamine. 

Origin of Vitamines. The accessory food factors at present 
known to exist are ultimately derived from vegetables. The 
animal body does not appear to possess any power of con- 
structing them ; but an analogy within the body to vitamines 
is to be found in hormones, the internal secretions of the 
endocrine glands. When found in animal flesh or fat, vitamines 
have reached there from the consumption of vegetable food, 
from which they have been absorbed and stored up until required. 
Fat-soluble A. is stored in adipose tissue ; the amount so stored 
is considerable and is only comparatively slowly exhausted ; 
therefore a diet may be free from this factor without obvious 
results ensuing for several weeks. Water soluble B. also is 
stored in the tissues and gradually drawn on as necessity arises. 
The anti-scorbutic factor, on the other hand, is not long retained 
in the tissues and should, therefore, always be present in food. 

Vitamines in Workers' Food. The industrial importance of 
food accessory factors depends upon two circumstances, the 
first is that " carried food," the food brought by the workers to 
the factory, is likely to contain a large proportion of preserved 
meats and other articles free of " vitamines." The second is 
that butter is unlikely to resume its place in the dietary for 
many years if ever. The vast bulk of the margarine on the 
market is vegetable margarine without any vitamine value. 



258 THE FEEDING OF THE INDUSTRIAL WORKER 

Further, fresh fruits, such as apples, oranges and bananas, 
are sure to be very scarce" and dear for some time to come. It is, 
therefore, necessary, for those organising industrial feeding to 
pay special attention to the supply of green vegetables, to ensure 
that the methods of cooking are not such as to destroy the 
" vitamines," and to encourage the use of bread more nearly 
approximating to the war bread than to the aesthetically desir- 
able and physiologically improper article which used to adorn 
the afternoon tea-table and may, perhaps, reappear. 

We have now expounded the general physiological principles 
which should inform the practice of industrial catering. We 
have no doubt that the extension of the canteen system, which 
received such an impetus during the war, will be a valuable instru- 
ment in securing the necessary conditions. At the same time 
we are alive to the fact that a part, perhaps the larger part, of 
the commissariat problem is domestic and not capable of direct 
control. In the sphere of home life we can do little directly, a 
great deal indirectly. The economic factor is, of course, para- 
mount. It is idle to prescribe diets if the workers have not the 
wherewithal to purchase them. This matter, however, is not 
within the scope of a treatise upon industrial hygiene. Given 
the necessary economic conditions, much is attainable by educa- 
tion. The general principles of dietetics, not even excepting the 
mysterious " calories " which a Minister of State once admitted 
to be beyond his comprehension, can be explained to any indus- 
trial worker of sufficient intelligence to be fit for industrial 
work at all. The duty lies with those responsible for welfare 
and hygiene in factories to see that such explanations are 
given. 

(See end of Chapter XI. for Bibliography.) 



CHAPTER XI 

FOOD AT THE FACTORY 

I. Introduction. II. Facilities Provided. III. Canteen Premises : 
Site ; Extent ; Payment ; Canteen Suggestion Box ; Beading Box. 
IV. Canteen Management : Canteen Committee ; Finance : The 
Manager. V. The Menu. VI. Finally. VII. Bibliography. 

I. Introduction. 

THE consideration given in the previous chapter to the 
quantity and quality of food required by those doing industrial 
work raises the further question as to how steps can be taken 
to ensure that an adequate supply is consumed. The facts 
already stated would be of little practical value if means were 
not available for controlling, in part at least, the food eaten by 
workers. In the past this important matter has received scant 
attention in the great majority of factories ; but during the 
war a great advance was made. Industrial canteens were 
erected at which, at the .time of the armistice, over a million 
meals a day were being served. Previously the workers were 
left to fare for themselves ; the result was not satisfactory. 

Food brought by the Workers. The custom prevailed, indeed, 
in many places still prevails, for workers, who lived too far 
away to return home for their mid-day meal, to bring food 
with them, and in some factories facilities were provided for 
heating such carried food. This custom is not good ; industrial 
canteens are rapidly supplanting it. Carried food is often defi- 
cient in quantity ; even when adequate from this point of view, 
it is frequently made up of remnants from the domestic table, 
which do not become any more appetising from confinement in a 
bundle for several hours, possibly since the previous evening. 
The gross energy values found (15) in four samples of carried 
food were as shown in the table on p. 260. 

The additional amount of food taken at home cannot be 
readily ascertained, but the probability is that where the supply 
of carried food is inadequate and unappetising, the domestic 
menu will also be badly managed. " Experience indicates that 
for a large class of workers home meals are hurried and, especially 
for women workers, too often consist of white bread and boiled 
tea. A worker starting the day with a bread and tea breakfast, 
and walking or travelling for an hour or more to work, cannot 



260 



FOOD AT THE FACTORY 





Weight in grammes. 




Ingredients. 




Dry. 


Calories. 




Gross. 














Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 




(I) Meat . 


87) 










Potato 


100 - 


29-5 


34-9 


93-7 


871 


Pastry. 


36) 










(2) Rabbit 
Pastry . 


112) 
215) 


51-5 


54-2 


104-4 


1,143 


(3) Roast pork . 


70) 










Yorkshire pudding 
Potatoes 


72[ 
128 


32-8 


14-4 


77-2 


590 


Cabbage 


94) 









(4) Roast beef . 


78) 






Potatoes 
Cabbage 


64 [ 

711 


30-4 


4-7 30-8 


295 


Haricot beans 


50 ) 









remain for long an efficient worker ; and probably much broken 
time and illness arise from this cause " (15). 

Where no canteen or messroom is provided and this group 
of factories still represents the majority the workers take their 
food how and where they can. Often they tend to hide from 
onlookers so as to escape displaying the scanty provender they 
are allowing themselves. In other cases workers have been 
seen broiling their rasher of bacon on a red-hot horse shoe, or 
heating their can of steWed tea at a furnace. 

Economy, comfort and cleanliness are all absent from such 
picnic meals, which rapidly lose any charm of novelty when 
taken day after day in the average environment to be found in 
industrial establishments. 



n. Facilities Provided. 

Every stage is to be found, from a complete lack of facilities 
up to the most modern development of the canteen ; these 
stages may be stated thus : (i.) a room may be set aside 
(usually inadequate as to cleanliness, lighting, heating and 
cheerfulness) in which workers may eat their carried food ; 
(ii.) the room may be fitted with a boiler to supply hot water, 
and a hot cupboard for warming food ; (iii.) the room may 
be rather better, with tables and chairs, and attendants 
provided to cook the food brought ; (iv.) a further advance 



CANTEEN PREMISES 261 

brings us to a canteen at which hot and cold food is supplied ; 
(v.) lastly, there is the modern canteen combined under the 
same roof with facilities for rest and recreation, e.g.., reading 
room, billiard tables and gymnasium. While a case may be 
made out for only providing in special instances (i.), (ii.), or 
(iii.), according to the number employed, the character of the 
work, or the nearness of the workers' homes, the ideal to aim 
at in every case is (v.)- A word of warning is required here ; 
if an industrial canteen is to be a success, nothing less than the 
best must be provided. Forms to sit on, plain tables to sit at 
and rough earthenware to eat off, may fail entirely to attract 
even a so-called rough class of labourer ; or if they do not fail, 
only call forth rough treatment, breakages, and bad manners ; 
while separate chairs, clean table cloths, flowers, good cutlery 
and china, well chosen pictures and window curtains, nearly 
invariably meet with the response they deserve, and so prove 
economical in use while raising the whole tone of the factory 
personnel. Give workers a canteen to be proud of and the can- 
teen will soon be proud of its workers. 

III. Canteen Premises. 

Those about to construct a canteen will, we apprehend, not 
be likely to rely entirely on information, however full, to be 
found in this volume. We therefore, anticipating that reference 
will be made to the explicit details given elsewhere (see Biblio- 
graphy (17), (18) and (19) ), only propose to refer to a few 
guiding principles. 

Site. The choice is important ; if possible the windows 
should face south and look out over a bowling green or a culti- 
vated plot of ground on which meals may be taken in summer. 
We recall one excellent canteen, ' where ground space was not 
available, built on a flat factory roof ; it caught all the available 
sunshine, and had an interesting outlook over an industrial 
town ; some 8 feet, left between the outside factory walls and 
the walls of the canteen, formed a parade which was much 
appreciated in summer by the workers, and decorated by them 
with evergreen bushes planted in wooden tubs. The position 
chosen should be as central as possible to avoid waste of time in 
transit from some outlying section of the works. Some advan- 
tage is gained by a ground floor site isolated from the rest of the 
factory, with separate access for delivery of food. 

Regard must, however, be had to convenience for drains, 
water supply, and gas or electric light mains. 

Extent. The accommodation provided must include (i.) a 



262 FOOD AT THE FACTORY 

dining room, with serving counters of ample size, so as to avoid 
crowding ; the floor space required will vary with the number to 
be seated, for seventy persons about 11 square feet per person 
will be required, but for 300 persons, if the tables are well 
arranged, 8 square feet per person may be enough ; the window 
area should be ample, with a glass space not less than one-tenth 
of the floor area, and plenty of ventilation should be allowed 
for by hopper openings ; (ii.) a well-equipped kitchen ; the 
following scale is useful : 

No. of diners. Size of kitchen. 

100 . . 20 feet by 15 feet. 

300 . . 25 20 

400 . . 30 25 

500 . . 35 25 

1,000 . . 50 30 

(iii.) a scullery opening out of the kitchen, with a hatchway 
from the dining room for dirty plates ; (iv.) store rooms and 
larder, the larder should face north and be well ventilated with 
perforated zinc panels to keep out flies ; (v.) a manager's office ; 
(vi.) sanitary accommodation, which in some cases may advan- 
tageously be combined with the lavatory and cloakroom installa- 
tion of the factory ; (vii.) a paved yard for waste bins. 

The first-aid station and rest rooms may often be usefully 
and economically constructed as part of the canteen block. 

Service. Probably the most important factor in deciding 
the popularity of a canteen is rapidity of service. In this respect 
an industrial canteen differs essentially from any other restaurant 
supplying mid-day meals, where the customers drop in one after 
another over a period of one and a half to two hours. Here, 
within three minutes of work stopping the whole number of 
customers present need to be served instantly. Maintenance 
of a staff of waitresses adequate to deal with such a rush, which 
only lasts a few minutes, would place an unnecessarily heavy 
charge on the expenses. The usual method adopted is to put 
the helpings out before-hand on the plates, place the plates 
on a heated counter within the serving hatch, and cover each 
plate with a metal cover so that others can be stacked on them. 
The workers then approach the serving hatch in single file behind 
a barrier, hand over their tickets, obtain their helpings, and 
take them to their seats. In a well-organised canteen, with 
adequate service within the hatch, every one should be served 
within ten minutes. Great advantage is gained by serving meat 
at one hatch, puddings at another, and tea or coffee at a third. 

Where orders have been placed before, hand service can also 
be expedited by placing the food, a few minutes before the 



CANTEEN ORGANISATION 263 

hooter goes, on the tables ready. Whatever method of service 
be decided upon, it is imperative that no money be paid at the 
serving time. 

Payment. The simplest plan is to sell tickets or tokens in 
batches sufficient for a week or more, the purchase of which 
can be effected at other times than the meal rush. There will, 
however, always be some extra persons who will require to buy 
their tickets at a ticket box before approaching the serving 
counter. All tickets, as handed in, should be dropped through 
a slit into a locked box. 

Canteen Suggestion Box. The provision of a suggestion box 
(see also p. 207) in the canteen for the reception of ideas and of 
complaints is useful. Suggestions made should be submitted 
to the canteen committee, referred to later, for consideration and 
action if thought advisable. 

Reading Box. A library in connection with a canteen is 
worth consideration, but another valuable and less ambitious 
institution is a reading box (21) ; in structure it is simple just 
a large empty box. In this box are placed daily papers and 
magazines no longer required by any member of the firm or by 
the workers themselves. The habit of bringing picture papers 
and out-of-date magazines for deposit in the canteen reading 
box is .readily developed. Scientific journals, dealing with 
engineering, the particular industry carried on, gardening, 
dressmaking, fashions, and the like, are useful material eagerly 
seized on. Catalogues and technical literature form valuable 
contributions ; most firms receive more than are looked at in 
the office and consign them to the waste-paper basket ; yet 
they represent the best effort of those who send them ; under 
the proposed scheme they are read by the workers who, not 
infrequently, find therein matter valuable to the works and 
ideas which find their way into the general suggestion box. The 
keynote should be that everything placed in the reading box 
can be taken away by any one who likes. Once instituted, the 
employer will be astonished to find how the box is cleared daily, 
while he has at his disposal a ready means for directing the 
workers' line of thought into any desired channel. Education 
can be advanced, and inventive faculties stimulated. 

Tea Trolleys. A valuable adjunct to a canteen is the institu- 
tion of tea trolleys, similar to those to be found on railway 
platforms, for conveying into the work places hot tea and light 
refreshments. The value of a light meal during a long morning 
spell, or more particularly in the mid-afternoon, to work .has 
been remarked upon by investigators of output. The progress 
of work is hardly affected as the trolley goes by and each worker 



264 FOOD AT THE FACTORY 

obtains what is desired. Judged by their popularity among the 
workers tea trolleys are a conspicuous success, a sufficient reason 
of itself for maintaining them ; they have also the effect of 
putting an end to promiscuous tea taking which, in some estab- 
lishments, has definitely interfered with order and discipline. 

IV. Canteen Management. 

The employer should not burden himself with details of 
management, they should rather be delegated to a committee 
and an expert staff. 

Canteen Committee. Canteen management is skilled work, 
and must be entrusted to an expert. But, if everything is left 
in his hands, sooner or later suspicion is bound to arise that 
undue profits are being made ; the best step to take is to 
appoint an advisory committee of the workers, and place them 
in charge of all canteen affairs. The duties of such a committee 
are numerous ; not only will they examine accounts, but they 
will be responsible for order and discipline, organise concerts 
and entertainments to occupy the last half of the meal time ; they 
will consider complaints, put down pilfering which is liable to 
become a serious matter, and express the workers' fancies in 
the matter of new dishes. We feel strongly that co-operation 
with the workers through a canteen advisory committee possess- 
ing inside knowledge and responsibility is practically a necessity. 
Any one familiar with the history of " tommy-shops " and the 
Truck Acts, will require no argument to convince him on this 
matter. 

Finance. A canteen should always be made to pay its way. 
Well disposed firms, recognising the value to the workers of 
good food, may feel inclined to give financial support ; but this 
tendency should be resisted, otherwise workers look upon this 
support as money which should more legitimately have been 
distributed as wages. An effort should rather be made to secure 
a small profit to be placed at the disposal of the canteen com- 
mittee for use as they think fit, whether for additional comforts 
in the way of pictures, table decoration, library, recreation, or 
entertainments . 

The Manager. The management must be entrusted to a 
'skilled person who understands the importance and methods of 
book-keeping ; and his proceedings should in his own interest 
be checked from time to time by calling in the aid of an accoun- 
tant accustomed to auditing the books of hotels and restaurants. 
He should know (i.) the value of bin cards ; (ii.) how to conduct 
portion-analysis ; (ii.) how to adjust the supply of leading-lines, 
e.g., joints, and of other more paying commodities^ such as tea 



THE MENU 



265 



and puddings ; (iv.) the proportion of the turn-over, not 
exceeding 25 per cent, spent on wages ; and (v.) how to adjust 
his selling prices so as to obtain a gross average profit of 33 J per 
cent, on the buying prices. These are matters upon which other 
publications should be consulted (see (20) ). 

V. The Menu. 

Energy supplied in food should be distributed as follows : 
One-fifth should be derived from protein, one-quarter from fat, 
and about one-half from carbohydrates. The caterer in arrang- 
ing his menu on scientific lines will require to know not only on 
general lines the amount of energy, as expressed in calories, a 
mid -day meal should contain, and the proportion of this energy 
which should be supplied in the form of protein, carbohydrate 
and fat ; but the actual amount of energy and the form in which 
it exists in common articles of food. The facts are stated in the 
following table : 





Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrates. 












Total 
















calories 




Grins. 


Calories 


Grms. 


Calories 


Grins. 


Calories 


per Ib. 




in 1 Ib. 


per Ib. 


in 1 Ib. 


per Ib. 


in 1 Ib. 


per Ib. 




Beef* (imported) . . 


58-97 


241-8 


108-86 


1012-4 






1254-2 


Mutton* (imported) 


40-82 


167-4 


158-76 


1476-5 


. . 





1643-9 


Pork 


45-36 


186-0 


181-46 


1687-6 


. 


. . 


1873-6 


Fresh fish 


45-40 


186-1 


4-50 


41-9 





. . 


228-0 


Dried fish 


88-90 


364-5 


24-20 


225-1 


. 





589-6 


Lard (refined) . 


. 





453-60 


4218-5 





, . 


4218-5 


Butter* . 


45 


1-8 


371-95 


3459-1 





. 


3460-9 


Margarine* 


45 


1-8 


381-00 


3543-3 





. 


3545-1 


Sugar 


. 








. 


444-50 


1822-5 


1822-5 


Syrup 
Jam* 











~ 


323-90 
317-52 


1328-0 
1301-8 


1328-0 
1301-8 


Green vegetables 


7-26 


29-8 


1-72 


16-0 


19-00 


77-9 


123-7 


Mixed vegetables 


3-45 


14-1 


68 


6-3 


18-10 


74-2 


94-6 


Fresh fruit 


2-27 


9-3 


91 


8-5 


54-40 


223-0 


240-8 


Apples 


1-40 


5-7 


1-40 


13-0 


49-00 


200-9 


219-6 


Bananas . 


3-60 


14-8 


1-80 


16-7 


64-70 


265-3 


296-8 


Potatoes* (raw) 


9-07 


37-2 








90-72 


372-0 


409-2 


Bread* . 


31-75 


130-2 


45 


4-2 


217-73 


892-7 


1027-1 


Flour* 


45-36 


186-0 


6-80 


63-2 


340-20 


1394-8 


1644-0 


Oatmeal . 


73-00 


299-3 


32-70 


304-1 


306-20 


1255-5 


1858-9 


Milk* 


13-61 


55-8 


13-61 


126-6 


20-41 


83-7 


266-1 


Rice, sago, cornflour 


36-40 


149-2 


3-02 


28-1 


356-07 


1459-9 


1637-2 


Sausages* 


40-82 


167-4 


81-65 


759-3 


68-04 


279-0 


1205-7 


Bacon 


43-00 


176-3 


272-20 


2531-5 






2707-8 


Dried peas, beans, lentils 


108-80 


446-1 


6-80 


63-2 


272-20 


1116-0 


1625-3 


Fresh peas and beans 


12-92 


53-0 


1-13 


10-5 


37-88 


155-3 


218-8 


Eggs (one egg weighs 2 ozs.) 


54-40 


223-0 


43-10 


400-8 






623-8 


Cheese .... 


113-40 


464-9 


136-00 


1264-8 


11-30 


46-3 


1776-0 



* In calculating the entries of this table, the calorie equivalents of 1 gramme of protein 
of carbohydrate and of fat have been taken as 4-1, 4-1 and 9-3. The analyses used in the 
items marked with an asterisk refer to substances on the English market in the last year 
of the war ; other analyses were, for the most part, pre-war. 

Suggestions are given on p. 266 as to the way in which food 
may be combined to give in the mid-day meal somewhere about 
one-third of a daily dietary of 3,000 calories, that is, one-third of 
an average daily dietary for a woman worker (15). The total 
daily dietary for a male worker on the same scale would require 



266 



FOOD AT THE FACTORY 



to amount to 3,750 calories, that is to say, his mid-day meal 
should approximate to 1,250 calories. 

Suggested Dinners for Munition Workers. 







Weight in grammes. 




"Speci- 


Ingredients. 


Dry- 


Calories . 


men. 










- 


Gross. 


Pro- 
tein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 




No. 1. 


Meat pudding. 


120) 












Potatoes 


200 ( 












Cabbage 


120 ( 


32-0 


52-1 


178-4 


1,346-0 




Pudding (jam roll) . 


160 ) 










No. 2. 


Roast beef 


78, 












Yorkshire pudding . 


no/ 












Potatoes 


200 y 


44-3 


32-3 


122-2 


983-0 




Cabbage 


140 










No. 3. 


Apple pie and custard 
Liver 


171) 
80 . 












Bacon . 


20 / 












Potatoes 


200 > 


53-6 


25-3 


158-4 


1,101-7 




Peas (preserved) 


134 1 












Sago pudding. 


250 ) 










No. 4. 


Roast beef 


110) 












Potatoes 


182 












Cabbage 


77 


40 


30 


101 


837 




Syrup roll 


120) 










No. 5. 


Roast beef 


80 












Potatoes 


2001 












Peas 


150 I 


33-4 


25-0 


132-8 


1,002-6 




Currant pudding 


1361 











The next table given sets out a weekly dinner menu as suggested 
by the Canteen Committee of the Central Control Board (17). 

Weekly Dinner Menu. 



Monday. 


Tuesday. 


Wednesday. 


Thursday. 


Friday. 


Saturday. 


(Scotch broth. 


Pea soup. 


Mutton 
broth. 


Lentil soup. 


Vegetable 
soup. 


Tomato soup. 


Roast beef. 
Sausages and 
mashed 
potatoes. 


Boiled 
mutton. 
Curried beef 
and rice. 


Roast pork. 
Jrish stew. 


Boiled beef 
and carrots. 
Tripe and 
onions. 


Roast 
mutton. 
Steak and 
kidney pie 
or pudding. 


Liver and 
bacon. 
Potato pie. 


Stewed fruit. 
Ginger 
pudding. 


Stewed fruit. 
Jam roll. 


Stewed fruit, 
Rice or sago 
pudding. 


Stewed fruit. 
Apple tart. 


Stewed fruit. 
Bread and 
butter 
pvidding. 


Stewed fruit. 
Raisin 
pudding. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 267 

Examples may also be of value taken from menus actually 
provided by two firms with good welfare departments repre- 
senting two different types of industry (see pp . 2689). Although 
the exact amounts served could not be ascertained, the amount 
of meat in the menu for the cotton operatives would appear 
to be less than for the engineering workers, just as would be 
anticipated from our remarks on p. 254. 

VI. Finally. 

A factory canteen, apart from its primary object of supplying 
wholesome food under favourable conditions, has in it great 
possibilities as a social institution, where workers meet, make 
friends, and learn to be part of, and take part in, the life of what 
should be a valuable humanising influence their industrial 
home. 

VII. Bibliography. 

1. Benedict, Miles, Roth and Smith. Human Vitality and Efficiency 
under Prolonged Restricted Diet. Carnegie Institute. Washington. 
1919. 

2. Cathcart and Orr. The Energy Expenditure of the Infantry 
Recruit in Training. Stationery Office. 1919. 

3. Dunluce and Greenwood. Medical Research Committee. Special 
Report Series, No. 13. Stationery Office. 1918. 

4. Greenwood, Hodson and Tebb. Proc. Roy. Soc. #., XCI., p. 62. 
1919.. 

5. Greenwood and Thompson. Proc. Roy. Soc. of Medicine 
(Section of Epidemiology and State Medicine), XI., p. 61. 1918. 

6. Lusk. Elements of the Science of Nutrition. 3rd Edition. 
London. 1917. 

7. Royal Society (Food, War Committee). Report on the Food 
Requirements of Man. Harrison & Sons. London. 1919. 

8. Amar. Le Rendement de la Machine Humaine. Paris. 1910. 

9. Howard. An Inquiry into the Morbid Effects of Deficiency of 
Food, p. 28. London. 1839. 

10. " Report on Present State of Knowledge concerning Accessory 
Food Factors (Vitamines)." Medical Research Committee. Special 
Report Series, No. 38. 1919. 

11. Physiology and National Needs. Edited by W. D. Halliburton. 
Constable & Co., Ltd. 1919. 

12. Rowntree. Poverty: A Study of Town Life. 1902. 

13. Greenwood and Thompson. Brit. Med. Journ. August 10th, 
1918. 

14. "Working Classes." Cost of Living Committee. (Cd. 8980.) 1918. 

15. Hill, L. E. " Investigation of Workers' Food." Health of 
Munition Workers Committee. Memo. No. 11. (Cd. 8370.) 1916. 

16. Benedict and Cathcart. Muscular Work, Metabolic Study. 
Washington. 1913. 

17. " Feeding the Munition Worker." Canteen Committee of the 
Central Control Board (Liquor Traffic). 1916. 

(Continued on p. 270.) 



268 



FOOD AT THE FACTORY 



I 



r 

s 

i? 




t s 

5 







^ S o5 
.2 ^ -2 
A O tf 



" 

1 1 ij I 



* 



FACTORY MENUS 



269 





















>> w 




8 




i | 




1 




1 3 




0) 




! || 




i I i. 


1 


1 1 1 


a 


d T3 |3 T3 
S fl ft ^5 

ta ce J'5 


4^ 03 jj "3 

Ps O PH C3 


1 * i 1 1 

w 6 o 


1||| 

till 


" 1 ! 1 -3 1 1 

"^8-llli 

1 1| l| 1 1 


t 


1 II i 


05 


1 


111!*- 

i I i 3 OQ o 


$ >> ^ ^ 

ft 2 o . g 
a 1 * 1 2> 

jjlfll 

pq M co H PM w 


111 IP 
illji] 

pq Q pj o PM a 


.i 






03 x 








OJ 






I 


1 




i , 


III 


f i ^ 




-3 o 


^ -S -H O 


^ -2 v -d . . 




iii 


( (S S S H 


^ eg ^ fl o O 

'1 o ^ * 1 ^ 

pq ^ 2 W r/3 





^ 









Q 


2 




H 





Q 


^ 


a 


1 


' s 


id 

O 


i 




A 
H 


S 


CQ 



270 FOOD AT THE FACTORY 

18. " Canteen Construction and Equipment." Health of Munition 
Workers Committee. Memo. No. 6. (Cd. 8199.) 1916. 

19. " Mess Rooms and Canteens." Home Office Paper. 1918. 

20. Hall, M. J. "Food at the Works." The Industrial Clinic. 
Bale, Son and Danielsson, Ltd. 1920. 

21. Gilbreth, F. B. Fatigue Study. George Routledge & Son. 
1916. 

22. Board of Trade. Report of an Enquiry by, into Working Class 
Rents. (Cd. 6955.) 1913. 

23. Hill L. E. " Food Values in Relation to Occupation." The 
Industrial Clinic. Bale, Son and Danielsson, Ltd. 1920. 



CHAPTER XII 

THE USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY THE INDUSTRIAL 

WORKER 

I. Introduction. II. Physiological Effect of Alcohol. III. Psycho- 
physiological Results. IV. Rise of the Spirit-drinking Habit. 
V. Contrast between Industrial and Convivial Drinking. VI, The 
Charm of Alcohol. VII. Conclusion. VIII. Bibliography. 

I. Introduction. 

WE have entered upon the preparation of this chapter with 
reluctance ; few subjects are more difficult to handle and few 
are more interwoven with strands of prejudice, of bad reasoning 
and of deliberate falsehood. Study of the literature of this 
subject will convince the most optimistic that the time when 
grave problems of social hygiene will be discussed dispassionately 
is indefinitely remote. Such a student will discover vulgar 
cupidity masquerading as love of liberty or regard for the rights 
of the working man ; he will also find " bigotry, self-conceit, 
an insolent curiosity, a meddlesome temper, a cold-blooded 
criticism, founded on a shallow interpretation of half perceptions, 
a monstrous scepticism in regard to any conscience of any 
wisdom, except one's own ; a most irreverent propensity to 
thrust Providence aside and substitute one's self in its awful 
place." Small wonder that many well fitted, to elucidate the 
problem shun it and devote their energies to subjects which 
have not excited so many and so ignoble passions. It is, how- 
ever, impossible for us wholly to avoid a consideration of the 
use of strong drink in a book devoted to the hygiene of industry ; 
in the following pages we shall set out such facts and inferences 
as are, in our opinion, important to the student of industrial 
hygiene. 

II. Physiological Effect of Alcohol. 

We must, to begin with, refer to the role of alcohol in the 
physiological processes of the human body. This subject needs 
but little space, because a clear and adequate account has been 
rendered in the report of a committee appointed during the war 
by the Central Control Board (Liquor Traffic) which the reader, 
if he has not already done so, should study carefully (1). The 
essential results are these : (a) Both ethylic alcohol itself and 
other substances present in alcoholic beverages are capable of 
oxidation in the body, and thus render available to its cells the 
biotic energy which it is a principal function of food to supply ; 



272 THE USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

(b) therefore, alcohol itself and alcoholic beverages have a 
restricted right to be termed foods ; (c) but this right is a 
restricted one because other actions of alcohol upon the systems 
of the body come into play after a quite small amount has been 
ingested, and may rapidly counterbalance the advantages in 
respect of energy supply by disadvantages of greater or less 
moment ; and (d) as a source of energy for the body, within the 
restricted limits mentioned, alcohol is neither more nor less 
valuable than other oxidisable substances. 

We may conclude from these facts that for the normal man 
or woman alcohol as a source of energy cannot compete with the 
ordinary means of stoking the human engine which we discussed 
in the chapter on diets (see Chapter X.). There is reason to 
suppose that in certain diseases, especially diabetes mellitus 
where the body cannot use carbohydrates, the fact that a fraction 
of the needed energy can be derived from alcohol is of importance 
in treatment ; but this has no relevance to the case of a healthy 
man. In truth the physiological conclusions which we have 
just reached are concordant with the common experience of life. 
Nobody makes, or ever has made, a practice of drinking alcohol 
for the sake of its food value. Arguments that beer, wines, and 
spirits are foods are usually ex post facto rationalisations, i.e., 
attempts to give a reasoned explanation of actions the motives 
of which lie deeper than the little stratum of our conscious 
thoughts. We explore this deeper region a few paragraphs 
further on ; first we have to notice some simple physiological or 
rather psycho-physiological results. 

III. Psycho-physiological Results. 

Many observers have attempted to measure the effects upon 
the performance of skilled or semi-skilled movements of ingested 
alcohol. The interpretation of such experiments is always hard 
because, as we shall soon see, the main action of alcohol is exerted 
upon the highest functions of the psycho-neural apparatus, and 
because it is extremely difficult to disguise from the subject of 
the experiment the fact that he has taken a dose of alcohol. 
In the most recent series of experiments any attempt at disguise 
was abandoned, but the subjects of the experiment were mostly 
trained observers. An account of the work is contained in a 
recent report of the Medicdl Research Committee (2) drawn up 
by Dr. Vernon. From these we quote a series of experiments 
made by one of us. A passage consisting of nine Latin hexa- 
meter lines was learned by heart, and each day's experiment 
consisted in typing the passage four times before and four times 
after dinner. A comparison was instituted between the results 



ALCOHOL AND WORK 273 

of typing after dinner when alcohol was and was not taken. 
When a single glass of port wine was drunk (containing 18-5 c.c. 
of absolute alcohol) there was no appreciable difference either in 
the speed or accuracy of the typing. When the quantity was 
increased to two glasses (37 c.c. of absolute alcohol) there was 
an increase in the number of mistakes amounting to nearly 
80 per cent. 

Another series of experiments was made using, not a type- 
writer, but an adding machine, i.e., an instrument that the 
subject had not used with such frequency and regularity as the 
type-writer there it was found that a smaller quantity of 
alcohol was associated with deterioration. " If the alcohol 
experiments with food be compared against a mean of non- 
alcohol experiments made before and after, the deterioration, 
measured in terms of mistakes, amounts to 42 per cent., whilst 
a similar comparison in the fasting experiments shows a deterio- 
ration of 74 per cent." (2, p. 55). Jn this series 15-3 c.c. of 
absolute alcohol in the form of claret were taken with food or 
19-4 c.c. without food. 

Many similar experiments carried out by Dr. Yemen, Dr. 
Sullivan and others led to similar results. Dr. Vernon sum- 
marises the conclusions of the whole inquiry in the following 
terms : " Alcohol produced some effect in all of the individuals 
tested by the typing and adding-machine methods. The degree 
of effect depended largely on whether the alcohol was taken on 
an empty stomach or with food, for on an average it was about 
twice as toxic under the former conditions as under the latter. 
In the foodless experiments, one subject made 88 per cent, more 
typing mistakes after she drank 11-2 c.c. of alcohol. Another 
subject increased his adding-machine mistakes 74 per cent, 
after taking claret containing 19-4 c.c. of alcohol ; another 
increased her typing mistakes 156 per cent, after drinking 
sherry containing 22 c.c. of alcohol. 

" In some subjects a moderate dose of alcoholic liquid, taken 
with food, produced no measurable reaction. Such a non- 
reactive dose amounted to one glass of port ( = 18-5 c.c. alcohol) 
in a male subject, and to 4 ozs. of port ( 22 c.c. alcohol) in a 
female subject. 

" The effect reached its maximum half an hour after taking 
alcohol on an empty stomach, and might completely disappear 
in two hours. When the alcohol was taken with food, the effect 
was slightly longer in reaching its maximum. 

" When alcohol (30 c.c.) was taken in 5 per cent, strength, 
the effect produced was about three-fourths as great as when it 
was taken in 20 per cent, or 40 per cent, solution. A similar 

i.w. 18 



274 THE USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

difference was observed when taking diluted brandy (10 per cent, 
alcohol) and neat brandy (37 per cent, alcohol) " (2, pp. 59 60). 

Dr. Vernon's conclusions receive support from Dr. Edward 
Mellanby, who was led by a series of experiments on dogs to 
infer that " whereas alcohol, when present in low concentrations 
in the body, undergoes combustion at a more rapid rate during 
exercise than at rest, and therefore supplies a greater amount of 
energy to the active organism, at higher concentrations it is only 
oxidised at the same rate in the resting and active animal. In 
other words, the greater the toxic action of alcohol the more 
limited is the increase in its rate of combustion by exercise, and 
the closer do the rates of combustion of alcohol in the active and 
resting states approximate. Alcohol at high concentrations 
seems not only to have this self limiting action on its own oxida- 
tive process, but, if fatigue is a true indication of diminished or 
partial oxidation, to extend its baneful and detrimental influence 
to the limitation of the oxidation- of other combustible material " 
(3, p. 48). 

Vernon in another publication (7) gives reasons, based on an 
investigation made into factory records, for holding that con- 
sumption of alcohol increases the prevalence of industrial 
accidents ; a result to be anticipated from the increase in errors 
which occurred in the experiments referred to above. 

The numerical details of these different inquiries are, of course, 
without exactitude, but the general trend of the results leads 
to the conclusion that quite small doses of alcohol diminish the 
accuracy with which skilled or semi-skilled rieuro-musculai 
processes are carried out.* Hence, we may conclude that : 

(1) Alcoholic beverages as a food, offer the normal adult no 

advantages over less equivocally designated foods ; and 

(2) As preliminaries to work, they either do nothing or harm. 

IV. Rise of the Spirit-Drinking Habit. 

We have, as a nation, always had the reputation of hard 
drinkers, as exemplified perhaps by Hamlet's criticism of the 
Danish revels : 

" But to my mind -though I am native here 
And to the manner born it is a custom 
More honoured in the breach than the observance. 
This heavy-headed revel east and west 
Makes us traduced and taxed of other nations ; 
They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase 
Soil our addition." 

* McDougall Smith (8) using a different method reach conclusions in 
agreement with those of Vernon & Mellanby with regard to dilution. 



SPIRIT DRINKING 275 

Nevertheless, ^intemperance as a serious national vice of the 
working classes seems not to be older than the second decade of 
the eighteenth century. The only spirit in common use in the 
seventeenth century was brandy, but it was too costly to be 
popular, and the habit of spirit drinking remained the privilege 
of the rich until the next century, when the distillers began to 
produce whisky and gin (6). " It was not," says Lecky, " until 
about 1724 that the passion for gin drinking appears to have 
infected the masses of the population, and it spread with the 
rapidity and violence of an epidemic. Small as is the place 
which this fact occupies in English history, it was probably, 
if we consider all the consequences that have flowed from it, the 
most momentous in that of the eighteenth century incompar- 
ably more so than any event in the purely political or military 
annals of the country. The fatal passion for drink was at once, 
and irrevocably, planted in the nation. The average of British 
spirits distilled, which is said to have been only 527,000 gallons 
in 1684, and 2,000,000 in 1714, had risen in 1727 to 3,601,000, 
and in 1735 to 5,394,000 gallons. Physicians declared that in 
excessive gin drinking a new and terrible source of mortality 
had been opened for the poor. The grand jury of Middlesex, in 
a powerful presentment, declared that much the greater part 
of the poverty, the murders, the robberies of London, might be 
traced to this single cause " (4, Vol. 2, p. 101). By 1751 the 
estimated consumption of spirits reached 1 1 millions of gallons, 
and in that year Hogarth's engraving of Gin Lane was pub- 
lished with its inscription, " drunk for a penny, dead drunk 
i'or two-pence, clean straw for nothing," and the illustrious 
Fielding declared that " gin was the principal sustenance 
(if it may be so called) of more than 100,000 people in the 
metropolis." 

Legislation was carried in 1751, which seems to have had some 
effect. Heberden, writing in 1801, remarked that " dropsy," 
which, as a cause of death in the London bills of mortality, had 
attained remarkable dimensions between 1718 and 1751, imme- 
diately diminished. "Still," to quote Lecky again, "these 
measures formed a palliative and not a cure, and from the early 
years of the eighteenth century gin drinking has never ceased 
to be the main counteracting influence to the moral, intellectual 
and physical benefits that might be expected from increased 
commercial prosperity " (4, vol. 2, p. 104). 

These historical notes have not been interpolated at random. 
The point to mark is that the consumption of intoxicants, 
particularly spirits, began to be excessive in the generation 
which witnessed the birth of modern industrialism, and, as 

18-2 



276 THE USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

Lecky remarks, the attendant evils have been prominent ever 
since. Industrialism and intemperance may not be cause and 
effect, but the variables are correlated ; to explain their con- 
nection we must digress into statistics. 

V. Contrast between Industrial and Convivial Drinking. 

Dr. W. C. Sullivan, in his valuable essay on alcoholism (5), 
pointed out that, judged by the number of arrests for drunken- 
ness, Durham was easily the most intemperate county in 
England. The annual arrests per 100,000 (1891 1900) were 
2,228-8 in Durham, 1,543-8 in Northumberland, 1,012-9 in 
South Wales, and below 1,000 in every other county ; the metro- 
politan police district had only 748-7, the industrial West 
Riding of Yorks only 644-1. Now these " drunk and disorderly " 
counties are the great coal fields of England and Wales, so that 
we might expect to find that coal miners die at exceptionally 
heavy rates of diseases supposed to be caused or exacerbated 
by alcohol. 

The direct contrary is found. Taking the mortality of all 
males in England and Wales from alcoholism and diseases of the 
liver as 100, the mortality of coal miners from these causes was 
fifty-one in 1900-2. In the following decennium the mortality 
of all males from these causes declined considerably, but the 
decline amongst miners very nearly kept pace with that amongst 
all males, and in 1910 12 coal miners had only 57 per cent, of 
the standard mortality. Dr. Sullivan further pointed out that 
in seaports, although the convictions for drunkenness were 
less numerous than in the mining districts, the death rates from 
alcoholism and from diseases of the liver were very much higher. 
The occupational group of dock labourers dies from these causes 
at a very high rate indeed ; at a rate of 167 per cent, of the 
standard in 1900 02 and of 187 per cent, of the standard in 
1010 12. 

The conclusion plainly follows that in the social pathology 
of alcoholism, drunkenness in the police court sense has not 
the same effects as other methods of indulgence. A study of 
the industrial habits of the two groups of employed persons 
we have mentioned at once makes the distinction clear. Dr. 
Sullivan writes as follows of coal mining (and one of us can 
confirm his impressions from personal observation) : "In this 
industry the conditions that determine the drinking habits of 
the workers are uniform and distinctive to a degree, which we 
do not find in any other occupational group. Whatever diffe- 
rences exist between the coal fields of one district and those of 



INDUSTRIAL DRINKING 277 

another, and however these differences may affect the methods 
of working, they are as nothing compared with the characters 
that are shared in common, and which, from our point of view 
at all events, make all coal mines essentially alike. Of these 
characters, besides the general similarity in the muscular work 
involved in coal getting, the most important are the constantly 
large scale of the operations, which prevents those contrasts 
between large and small employers so frequently met with in 
other trades ; the length of the spells of work which, owing to 
the difficulty of access to the place of labour, are more prolonged 
than in other industries, and finally, the extreme danger of 
drunkenness in the pit, a danger which, as it affects many 
interests, leads to a correspondingly rigorous supervision of 
the sobriety of the individual workman. . . . By the circum- 
stances under which he works the miner is practically cut off 
from all access to liquor during the eight or ten hours which 
he spends in the pit. ... In the result, therefore, the coal 
miner has, at most, an opportunity for having- a single dose of 
alcohol before he gets to work, and as its stimulant effect does 
not last long he speedily realises that beer is a ' muddling ' 
thing to work on " (5, p. 106). 

Conditions are very different in riverside labour. Besides 
the regular intervals for breakfast and dinner, a general practice 
used to be to sanction pauses, " bever times," one in the forenoon 
and one in the afternoon. A docker would take a " livener " of 
half a quartern of rum before starting work, or perhaps a glass 
of " four ale " ; at breakfast he might drink a pint of ale ; 
from one to three half-pints would be the allowance at the first 
" bever time " ; dinner would be the occasion of another pint 
or two ; the second " bever time " would correspond to the first, 
and on knocking off work another pint or two might be imbibed 
(5, p. 80). 

The two instances we have selected are, of course, extremes ; 
they illustrate, however, a fundamentally important distinction 
which can be used with more or less success to grade all forms of 
industry. The distinction is between what in a mild form is 
convivial excess, in an extreme form drunken debauch, on the 
one hand, and the practice of using alcoholic beverages con- 
tinuously, what Dr. Sullivan happily terms industrial drinking, 
on the other. 

Both practices lead to enormous social evils, but they are 
not equally relevant to the subject of this treatise. With 
regard to the former we have nothing to say. Crimes com- 
mitted under the influence of alcohol, actions falling short of 
legal criminality which have destroyed the chance of happiness 



278 THE USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

and embittered the lives of so many, these are topics which more 
skilful writers than we have many times described. 

VI. The Charm of Alcohol. 

The less dramatic circumstances of industrial drinking are 
more properly our business. We pointed out in earlier para- 
graphs that the use of alcohol never improves and often dete- 
riorates industrial efficiency and that, as a " food," it cannot 
compete with less attractive articles. What virtues does it 
possess which endow it with such powers of attraction ? The 
answer has been given in the following words "the secret of 
its charm, its well-nigh universal attraction for the human race 
is a sense of careless well-being or bodily and mental comfort. 
In so far as this sense of well-being is of bodily origin, it is no 
doubt largely due to a flushing of the skin with blood that 
abolishes all sense of chill, but it is due also in part to a blunting 
of the sensibility to the small aches and pains and a thousand 
hardly distinguishable sense impressions which, except in those 
in perfect health, contribute to tip the balance of bodily feeling- 
tone to the negative or unpleasant side. In so far as this effect 
is primarily mental, it results from the blunting of those higher 
mental faculties which lead us to ' look before and after and 
pine for what is not,' and harass us with care for the future 
and a too sensitive self-consciousness for the present " (1, p. 31). 
If we recall the conditions of factory labour in the days of the 
industrial revolution, even in the last generation, even in some 
industries in the present generation, we shall not find it hard to 
recognise the " thousand sense impressions " which do very 
decisively tip over the balance of bodily feeling-tone to the 
negative or unpleasant side. 

These facts having been grasped, the industrial phenomena of 
alcoholism appear in their proper perspective. Hedonism is, 
doubtless, a poor ethical creed, but in practice we are all 
hedonists in greater or less measure. If the conditions of our 
lives are such that the task of the moment is irksome and anti- 
cipation of future pleasure but faint, we shall certainly try 

" . . . . Something to snatch 
From dull oblivion, nor all 
Glut the devouring grave." 

When positive increments of happiness are excluded, some 
decrement of present misery, by a blunting of the psychic 
sensitiveness to the discomfort of environment, is afforded by a 
narcotic drug. This is the real case in favour of alcohol as a 
beverage ; it does increase the agreeableness of life as lived by a 



CONCLUSION 279 

majority in the past and a very large minority in the present. 
The addiction of the labouring classes to drink should be regarded 
not as an opportunity for gratifying the desire to preach at 
other people, which is so common in the half-educated middle 
and upper classes, but as a protective reaction to the stimulus 
of conditions which have deprived millions of positive oppor- 
tunities to lead full and happy lives. The business of the 
hygienist is not elaborately to refute factitious arguments in 
favour of the physiological merits of alcoholic beverages or to 
waste words over the " selective " value of alcohol as a factor 
of racial evolution, but to point out that all the conditions 
(discussed in other chapters of this book), which improve the 
moral and material conditions of labour in factories diminish 
the motive of industrial drinking and must, pro tanto, restrict its 
amount. 

VII. Conclusion. 

The industrial problem of alcohol is not sui generis, but part 
and parcel of the whole question of industrial-social organisation. 
Hence, we can only refer to the other chapters of this book in 
which we have incorporated suggestions of a general kind. The 
conclusions now to 'be expressed are these : 

(1) Physiologically, alcohol is never required by a healthy 

man, whatever his occupation. 

(2) Industrially, alcohol never improves and usually impairs 

efficiency. 

(3) But owing to its narcotic action it diminishes the present 

discomfort of work carried on in depressing conditions, 
in itself uninteresting and holding out no pleasurable 
anticipations of the future ; hence, in badly conducted 
industries the attraction of alcohol is immense. 

(4) This present alleviation of misery is purchased at the cost, 

inter alia, of an enhanced general death rate. 

(5) The reduction of industrial drinking is indissolubly con- 

nected with the general hygienic and sociological 
amelioration of industrial conditions. 

VIII. Bibliography. 

1. Alcohol, its Action on the Human Organism. H.M. Stationery 
Office. 1918. 

2. Vernon, H. M. " The Influence of Alcohol on Manual Work 
and Neuro-Muscular Co-ordination." Medical Research Committee. 
Special Report, No. 34. 1919. 

3. Mellanby, E. " Alcohol, its Absorption Into and Disappear- 
ance From the Blood under Different Conditions." Medical Research 
Committee. Special Report, No. 31, 1919. 



280 THE USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

4. Lecky. History of England in the Eighteenth Century. Popular 
Edition, 7 Volumes. 1913. 

5. Sullivan, W. C. Alcoholism : A Chapter in Social Pathology. 
Nisbet, London. 1906. 

6. Traill, H. D., and Mann, J. S. Social England, Vol. V., 
pp. 180-1. Cassell & Co., Ltd. 1904. 

7. Vernon, H. M. " An Investigation of the Factors Concerned in 
the Causation of Industrial Accidents." Health of Munition Workers 
Committee. Memo. No. 21. (Cd. 9046.) 1918. 

8. McDougall, W., and Smith, M. "The Effects of Alcohol and 
some other Drugs during Normal and Fatigued Conditions." Medic. 
Research Council. Spec. Rep. No. 56. 1920. 



CHAPTER XIII 

REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

I. Introduction. II. The Air: (i.) Chemical Composition: Respiratory 
Exchange, Carbon Dioxide as a Measure of Ventilation ; (ii. ) Physical 
Properties : Temperature, Humidity, Movement ; (iii.) Impurities : 
Germs, Inorganic Particles. III. Methods of Ventilation : (a) 
General Ventilation : Natural Means, Mechanical Means : Ventilation 
by Extraction, Ventilation by Impulsion or Plenum ; (b) Localised 
Exhaust Ventilation : Removal of Dust, Removal of Heated Fumes, 
Removal of Volatile Vapours, Air Inlets, Faults to Avoid, Types of 
Fan, Maintenance. IV. Respirators. 

I. Introduction. 

HEALTH is more affected by atmospheric conditions than by 
any other influence. From the moment the new-born child 
utters its first cry, until life finally ceases, he is directly and 
immediately dependent on the atmosphere he breathes for 
continued existence. Records of sickness and of mortality 
clearly show that the nearer atmospheric conditions are to those 
of the open country, the better is the health of the population ; 
and that the more these conditions are modified owing to urbani- 
sation and industrialisation, the more pronounced is the ill-effect 
upon general health. 

The effects are manifested on the v-ery threshold of life. 
Chadwick (1) states : " In the space of four years, ending in 
1784, in a badly ventilated house, the Lying-in Hospital in 
Dublin, there died 2,9,44 children out of 7,650, but after freer 
ventilation the deaths in the same period of time, and in a like 
number of children, amounted only to 279." Brend (2), after 
close investigation into excessive infant mortality, has recently 
concluded : " The excess is due to some factor or factors in 
industrial towns, the centres of large cities, and mining areas, of 
which possibly the most important is the polluted state of the 
atmosphere " ; and supports this conclusion by pointing out 
that the causes of death to which the excess is due are mainly' 
respiratory diseases, and to a lesser extent enteritis, which are 
most prevalent in crowded, smoky industrial and mining districts. 

The effects are manifest also in adult life, as was pointed out 
by Chadwick in 1842. He presents the conditions of tailors' 
work in London at that time ; eighty men in a room 16 or 18 
yards long and 7 or 8 yards wide, lighted by skylights, sitting 
nearly knee and knee, with an atmosphere in summer 20 degrees 



282 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

higher than outside, and the perspiration so running from them 
as to spoil the clothes they worked at ; while in the winter things 
were worse, and in the very coldest nights large thick tallow 
candles melted and fell over from the heat. The smell was 
intolerable and men fainted at the work. Few of such men 
reached fifty years of age, and out of 233 tailors who died in 
1839 in the Metropolis, 123 died of disease of the respiratory 
organs, of whom 92 died of consumption ; only 29 died of old age, 
and Chad wick states " we may be profoundly confident that the 
greater proportion of them were not journeymen but master- 
tailors." He further wrote : "Of that which in these instances 
appears to be the main cause of premature disease and death, 
defective ventilation, it is to be remarked that until very lately 
little had been observed or understood even by professional men 
or men of science." 

Nor is this relation between ventilation and disease confined 
to men. Rossignol (3) states that "previous to 1836 the mortality 
of the French cavalry horses varied from 180 to 197 per 1,000 
per annum. The enlargement of the stables and the increased 
allowance of air, has reduced the loss in the present day to 24-2 
per 1,000. In the English cavalry (and in English racing stables) 
the same facts are well known. The annual mortality of cavalry 
horses (which was formerly great) is now (1895) reduced to 
23-7 per 1,000." 

Intimate as the connection undoubtedly is between ventilation 
and general well-being and physical efficiency, investigations (19) 
.aimed at determining what, if any, influence ventilation exerts 
upon mental work have entirely failed to establish any clear con- 
nection. Is this the reason why ventilation in the average 
clerical office is so hopelessly lacking ? 

Further evidence as to the importance of ventilation, especially 
in connection with industrial life, is unnecessary ; but the aim 
and object to be attained by ventilation, whether in workplaces 
or elsewhere cannot be grasped without an understanding of the 
composition of the atmosphere and of the way in which the 
human body depends upon and reacts to atmospheric conditions ; 
Awhile the means to be adopted cannot be approached until the 
aim to be attained is settled. 



H. The Air. 

The influence exerted upon health by air depends upon (i.) its 
chemical composition ; (ii.) its physical properties ; and (iii.) its 
impurities. The physiological functions concerned are (a) 
breathing carried on by the respiratory apparatus which depends 



THE AIR 283 

on the chemical composition of the air ; (b) heat regulation, 
carried on mainly by the skin ; and (c) resistance to infection. 

(i.) Chemical Composition. 

For practical purposes average air may be taken to contain in 
every 10,000 parts : 

Oxygen 2,094 

Nitrogen 7,809 

Argon ...... 94 

CO. 2 3 

Helium, Krypton, Neon, Xenon and ) rr. 

Hydrogen . . . j Traces. 

These gases are not chemically combined, but exist as a 
mechanical uniform mixture, the uniformity of which is main- 
tained by the diffusion of gases. There are also present aqueous 
vapour and traces of ammonia, organic matter and ozone. 

Nitrogen, which forms so large a proportion of the air, is an 
inactive gas which only comes to form part of living matter by 
indirect means. Hill claims (25) that " the so-called ' active 
oxygen ' of fresh country air is not ozone but nitrogen peroxide, 
probably formed by ultra-violet rays of sunlight causing the 
direct union of nitrogen and oxygen." Electric discharges may 
cause nitrogen to combine with oxygen to form oxides, which when 
washed down by rain can be assimiliated by plant life ; or it can 
be converted into nitrogenous compounds by nitrifying bacteria. 
Nitrogen takes no part in respiration except as a diluent of 
oxygen. 

Argon similarly is an inert gas which takes no part in the 
chemistry of life ; and the same remark applies to helium, 
krypton, neon, and xenon. 

Oxygen is the active constituent of air without which life 
could not exist. It is the agent which makes combustion 
pbssible. Combustion, i.e., the union of oxygen with other 
elements to form oxides of which the ordinary coal fire is a 
good instance is accompanied by the freeing of energy ; and 
the katabolic processes of life, which represent internal com- 
bustion, set free energy required for maintaining the body 
temperature and for performing work, and result in the forma- 
tion of simple compounds of oxygen, such as water, carbon 
dioxide and urea, waste products from which no further energy 
can be obtained. Although the presence of oxygen in the air 
breathed is a necessity of life, the amount present is not (within 
limits) of paramount importance, as the living organism regulates 
its own consumption. 

Respiratory Exchange. Expired air, in ordinary breathing, 



284 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

contains about 16j per cent, of oxygen, but this readily varies 
between such limits as 15-5 per cent, and 18-3 per cent, in accord- 
ance with the depth and frequency of the respirations. When 
the partial pressure of the oxygen (which we have seen is normally 
about 21 per cent, of an atmosphere) is reduced suddenly and 
greatly, as happens when an aviator ascends to great altitudes or 
in the less dramatic incident of " mountain sickness," the amount 
of oxygen rendered available for the cells is insufficient and 
death may follow unless the precaution of inhaling oxygen is . 
observed. Conversely, if the pressure of the oxygen is very 
greatly increased the gas acts as poison. Animals placed under 
fifty atmospheres of pure oxygen (i.e., nearly 240 times the 
pressure of oxygen in the ordinary air) are instantly thrown into 
convulsions and die ; and in five atmospheres of oxygen convul- 
sions occur within a few minutes ; prolonged exposure to much 
lower pressures, but pressures a great deal higher than that of 
the ordinary air, say 1-8 to 2 atmospheres of pure oxygen, cause 
a fatal pneumonia. These facts are of importance in the regula- 
tion of aviation, and, to a less degree, in connection with deep 
diving, but have no direct interest in ordinary industrial work, 
wherein lack of oxygen is never the cause of evils associated 
with imperfect ventilation. Interest, however, attaches to the 
recent work of Dr. J. S. Haldane (23), who has pointed out that 
while under normal conditions oxygen reaches the blood by 
diffusion through the epithelium lining the pulmonary alveoli, 
" the physical laws of diffusion do not explain the phenomenon of 
blood-oxygenation when the subject is making a special demand 
on oxygen supply either because he is doing physical work or 
because, as an airman or mountaineer, he is breathing rarefied 
air." He considers " the evidence strongly supports the view 
that the epithelium is not a mere porous diaphragm, but that the 
living cells from which it is built possess the faculty which they 
exercise at need of secreting oxygen from the air and of handing 
it forward at enhanced pressure to the blood." This attribute 
of secretion can be developed and improved by physical training, 
and was found to be present among practical miners. " When, 
during muscular exertion, a far larger amount of oxygen has to 
be taken, there is not time for the haemoglobin to become fully 
saturated by diffusion alone if ordinary air is breathed, and, 
unless the epithelium lining the alveoli actively passes oxygen 
inwards, the arterial blood is imperfectly saturated with oxygen, 
and this makes the breathing faster and tends ... to exhaust 
the breathing power. But the activity of the epithelium can be 
increased by practice. Hence, in men who are accustomed to 
muscular exertion, there is no deficiency of oxygen in the arterial 



CARBON DIOXIDE 285 

blood when ordinary air rs breathed until exertion is pushed to 
the utmost." If persons who are industrially employed are 
more or less in physical training, this capacity to secrete oxygen 
from the air, regardless of the pressure of oxygen present, makes 
of less moment the absolute amount in the atmosphere of work- 
places. 

The percentage of carbon dioxide in the expired air varies in 
the same fashion as does that of oxygen, but inversely ; and 
corresponding to an average oxygen percentage of 16-25, we are 
likely to have a percentage of carbon dioxide of about 4-21. 
Carbon dioxide is, so far as the exploitation of biotic energy is 
concerned, a waste product, but the presence of this gas in the 
blood is of importance in the normal regulation of respiratory 
movements. Haldane has shown that the percentage of carbon 
dioxide in the alveoli of the lungs varies very little indeed in the 
same person under different conditions ; when the percentage 
increases, the amount of carbon dioxide in the blood, flowing 
through the part of the central nervous syste.m the medulla 
oblongata from which impulses governing the movements of 
the muscles of respiration are discharged, is necessarily increased. 
The consequence is that this so-called centre is stimulated 
into discharging stronger or more frequent impulses to the 
muscles. The breathing becomes quicker and deeper, the 
ventilation of the alveoli is increased and the percentage of 
carbon dioxide diminishes ; thus the tension in the blood falls, 
the respiratory centre is no longer stimulated and the frequency 
and depth of respiration reduced. This is the normal way in 
which the movements of respiration are controlled. Carbon 
dioxide is formed during all katabolic processes, and particularly 
during muscular contraction when energy is released to do work ; 
it is then carried away by the blood to the respiratory centre, 
where it stimulates the deep and rapid breathing associated with 
active exercise. Under abnormal circumstances, for instance, 
when the pressure of the oxygen in the air breathed is much 
reduced (to less than 13 per cent, of an atmosphere or a little more 
than half the usual pressure) the respiratory centre is excited by 
lack of oxygen, and there is deep breathing without any increase 
of the percentage of carbon dioxide in the alveoli or blood ; but 
this is an abnormal condition. Many experiments have demon- 
strated that the mere presence of a large proportion of carbonic 
dioxide in the air respired does not do any injury ; the rate and 
depth of the breathing is increased, and that is all ; it is only 
when the pressure of carbonic dioxide reaches a level which 
could not be attained save in a hermetically sealed chamber, 
that the force and frequency of respiration needed to reduce the 



286 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

percentage in the alveoli to the level tolerated by the respiratory 
centre would become dangerous to life. Hill and one of the 
writers, in experiments upon the effects of compressed air, 
frequently allowed the amount of carbon dioxide in the air they 
breathed to reach 1-8 per cent, of an atmosphere (4), that is, 
much more than is found even under conditions of extremely 
defective ventilation, without suffering any inconvenience at all. 
The still common belief that ventilation is needed to keep down 
the percentage of carbon dioxide, is a pure superstition. 

Carbon Dioxide as a Measure of Ventilation. The importance 
ascribed by the hygienist to the amount of carbon dioxide 
present in the air of an occupied room has passed through various 
phases which may be thus summarised : When chemistry 
became an exact science and the interchange of gases in the 
lungs was first demonstrated, attention was concentrated on the 
gaseous condition of the atmosphere, and air was deemed to be 
bad or good as more or less carbon dioxide was present. This 
view was so far accepted that standards of carbon dioxide were 
fixed, such as twelve parts per 10,000, which should not be 
exceeded. The advocates of such standards as proof of satis- 
factory atmospheric conditions had, however, to modify their 
opinion when it was found that an atmosphere containing larger 
amounts of carbon dioxide, amounts such as are never met with 
under ordinary conditions, produced no ill-effects when breathed. 
The claim was then put forward that carbon dioxide was a 
useful measure of other poisonous emanations given off during 
respiration ; but careful investigation has quite failed to establish 
the existence of such emanations, and so this claim also fails. 
Still the hygienist has clung to carbon dioxide estimation, 
probably because it is a reasonably easy estimation to make, 
and he now claims that the existence of an unusual amount of 
carbon dioxide in an inhabited room is an indication of lack of 
air change. While this is certainly true there can be little doubt 
that for this purpose alone carbon dioxide estimation would 
never have been originated. The changes of opinion above 
mentioned have taken place as knowledge has advanced as to 
the physiological influences of the atmosphere. The composition 
of the air met with ordinarily in houses and factories, so far as it 
contains more or less oxygen or carbon dioxide, is now recognised 
to be an unimportant factor. 

The general conclusion is that the chemical composition of the 
air of occupied rooms and workplaces is adequate for all the 
needs of respiration ; and that the ill-effects which are associated 
with bad ventilation do not depend upon any alteration in the 
balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide present. 



TEMPERATURE 287 

(ii.) Physical Properties. 

Air possesses definite physical characteristics temperature, 
humidity, and movement the importance of which upon health 
is coming to be more and more recognised. These characteristics 
owe their importance to the way in which they influence the 
heat regulating mechanism of the body, and, as this mechanism 
reacts to the resultant influence exerted at any moment by the 
combined effect of the temperature, humidity and movement of 
the air, these three characteristics have to be considered together. 
Of the three, however, temperature is in itself the most important. 
Exposure to sufficiently low temperature is the cause of frost 
bites ; rapid movement of the air accentuates the effect, but 
rapid movement alone, unless the air is cold, will not produce 
the effect. Similarly, exposure to sufficiently high temperatures 
may cause heat stroke, an effect which is hastened if the hot air 
is saturated with moisture but delayed if the air is moving and 
dry ; but exposure to still air, however saturated with moisture, 
will not produce heat stroke unless the temperature is sufficiently 
high. 

Temperature. Great extremes of temperature are not ex- 
perienced in industrial work ; ice chambers for cold storage 
represent the lower limit reached, and work before furnaces and 
in unloading kilns the upward limit, but in these cases dryness 
and movement of the air so ameliorate the position that tempera- 
tures approaching 135 F. are endured without any immediate 
harmful result. As is pointed out later, such high temperatures 
cannot be safely endured if the air is humid, indeed, a wet bulb 
temperature of 78 F. represents a danger point for carrying on 
active work ; and such high wet bulb temperatures exist in 
certain tin mines in this country and occasionally in cotton mills. 

The human .body is warmer than its usual surroundings, 
and like any other warm body gives off heat to these surround- 
ings, either by conduction through direct contact with them, 
or by radiation, just as heat leaves a fire or the sun ; heat is 
also carried away from the body by convection due to air, 
warmed by contact, moving on and being replaced by cooler 
air. The body is not, however, confined, as is a piece of hot iron, 
to these three ways of losing heat ; it possesses a fourth - 
evaporation due to its power of secreting moisture on its 
surface in the form of sweat, and this last way is the most 
important. The body, in fact, so far as heat-loss is concerned 
closely resembles a wet-bulb thermometer, but the temperature 
of such an inanimate instrument varies with that of its surround- 
ings, while that of the bpdy does not. The temperature of the 



288 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

body is maintained by katabulic processes or internal combus- 
tion ; the energy so released is manifest either as external 
motion or as heat. Helmholtz estimated that 7 per cent, of the 
energy released in the body is represented by mechanical work, 
and that of the remainder about four-fifths are lost by radiation, 
conduction and evaporation from the skin, and the remaining 
one-fifth by expired air and excreta. Such an estimate is, of 
course, approximate and subject to variations, dependent 
especially on the amount of mechanical work done. 

The energy is obtained ultimately from food, and the intake 
of food and the output of energy as heat and work normally 
balance one another in such a way that the body in health 
maintains within small limits a constant temperature which 
varies about* a mean of 98-4 F. During sleep the temperature 
may fall below 97 F., and during hard exercise may rise as 
high as 103 F. ; but the tendency always is in health to return 
to about 98-4 F., and this is effected by a heat-regulating 
mechanism, of which the skin is the main executive agent, 
assisted by the lungs. If the temperature falls, the blood 
vessels of the skin contract and allow but little blood to reach 
the surface ; the skin becomes cold and pale, the secretion of 
sweat ceases, and at the same time respiration is slower and not 
so deep. Heat is now only lost from the skin surface by con- 
duction, radiation and convection, and, to a minor extent, 
through expired air. 

If, on the other hand, the temperature rises, the cutaneous 
blood vessels dilate, the skin becomes warm and flushed, the 
secretion of sweat is active, and respiration is quicker and 
deeper. Heat loss by conduction, radiation and convection is 
increased, and an important new influence is introduced 
evaporation of moisture from the skin. 

Humidity. Heat loss is nearly entirely dependent on the 
condition of the air ; if the air is warm, the loss is less rapid 
than when it is cool ; if it is humid the evaporation of sweat is 
less active than when it is dry ; if it is stagnant, the loss is less 
rapid and evaporation slower than if it is moving. Attention 
has been particularly directed by Haldane and others to the 
influence of atmospheric humidity upon body temperature. 
The body has been found to react to the effect of temperature 
as recorded by the wet-bulb thermometer, i.e., to the capacity 
of the air to absorb moisture. The body is able to regulate its 
heat loss by lessening or increasing the flow of blood through 
the skin, associated with a concomitant decrease or increase in 
secretion of sweat until the wet-bulb thermometer reaches 
about 78 F. At this temperature prolonged physical work 



HUMIDITY 289 

becomes impracticable because the body temperature rises 
steadily until, unless the work is stopped, heat apoplexy 
threatens. At about 88 F. wet-bulb, even at rest the body 
temperature rises steadily, and it is impracticable to remain 
long in such air. If, however, the air is moving rapidly more 
heat-loss by evaporation and convection occurs, and the danger 
limits of temperature mentioned are extended upwards for 
several degrees. Note, it is not the temperature of the air, 
nor its relative saturation with aqueous vapour, nor the absolute 
percentage of vapour present, which is the determining factor, 
but the temperature as read on the wet-bulb thermometer. 

While these upward danger limits of wet-bulb temperatures 
are of great importance, long before they are reached the effect 
of warm humid atmospheres upon the body is considerable. 
This subject has been carefully investigated in relation to the 
process of weaving cotton cloth, which calls for a humid atmo- 
sphere to prevent the cotton threads from breaking. The con- 
clusions arrived at by Pembrey and one of the, writers (6) have 
an important bearing upon the enervating effect of humid 
warmth and the need for ventilation in other places than cotton 
mills. 

" The influence of the warm moist atmosphere is to diminish 
the difference between the internal temperature of the body 
and that of the peripheral parts. The tendency is to establish 
a more uniform temperature of the body as a whole, and to 
throw a tax upon the powers of accommodation, which is indi- 
cated by the low blood pressure (see Table 1), notwithstanding 
the rapid rate of the pulse.* This is exactly the condition 
which would explain the discomfort and low state of health of 
which many of the weavers complain. 

" During work, heat is produced by the contraction of the 
muscles, and a rise of internal temperature up to a certain 
optimum is an advantage to the worker. If, however, the air is 
hot and moist, the worker must send more blood to the skin to 
be cooled and must sweat in order to prevent his temperature 
from rising too high. Hot moist air is not favourable for the 
cooling of the blood or the evaporation of sweat. Muscular 
work, by creating the need for a greater and faster supply of 
blood to the muscles, increases the rate of the heart's action, 
If, at the same time, more blood must be sent to the skin to be 
cooled, then an extra amount of work must be done by the 
heart. The regulation of the distribution of the blood is effected 
by the nervous system. A warm skin diminishes the tone of the 
muscles, lowers the exchange of material in the body, and 

* The original paper should be consulted for observations on the pulse. 



290 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 



TABLE 1. Blood Pressure of Workers. 

Arranged in age periods showing in millimetres of mercury the maximum 
systolic blood pressure ( 1 ) of males at work with the wet bulb thermometer 
recording less than 60 F. (a) in the tinplate trade, (6) in grinding metals, 
and (2) of certain weavers at work with the wet bulb thermometer recording 
70 F. or over. 





Males employed in 






The tinplate trade. 


Grinding metals. 




Age 




















. 








period. 


Persons 
examined. 


Lowest 
reading. 


Average. 


Highest 
reading. 


^Persons 
examined. 


Lowest 
reading. 


Average. 


Highest 
reading. 


M 

0> 
CO 


Number of 
bservationt 


Lowest 
reading. 


Average. 


Highest 
reading. 































(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


(6) 


(7) 


(8) 


(9) 


(10) 


(11) 


(12) 


(13) 


(14) 


20 to 24 


155 


110 


151 


200 


176 


85 


143 


210 


F. 


6 


85 


105 


125 


inclusive. 


















F. 


7 


85 


104 


110 




















M. 


5 


115 


127 


145 


25 to 29 


115 


110 


158 


215 


151 


105 


152 


200 


F. 


7 


90 


100 


120 


inclusive. 


















F. 


8 


80 


96 


110 




















M. 


4 


100 


118 


125 




















M. 


8 


80 


92 


110 




















M. 


8 


80 


110 


125 




















M. 


8 


80 


96 


125 


30 to 34 


92 


120 


158 


210 


182 


110 


159 


220 


M. 


7 


100 


126 


150 


inclusive. 




























35 to 39 


109 


115 


160 


210 


168 


90 


155 


210 


M. 


8 


95 


106 


115 


inclusive. 





























depresses the appetite, and thk natural tendency is for the nervous 
system to become less active, and for muscular work to be 
diminished. In a weaving shed, however, the machine sets the 
pace, and the worker must neglect the dictates of his sensations, 
which are the natural guardians of his health and well-being. 
He must strive as far as possible to accommodate himself to the 
adverse conditions of heat and moisture. Some workers can 
respond to the demand better than others, but all must have 
their powers of accommodation taxed when the temperature of 
the wet bulb rises much above 70 F. It is not surprising, 
therefore, that at the end of a day's work many of the weavers 
complain that they have no energy left, have no great desire for 
food, and need only drink and rest. The need of food for the 
production of heat in the body is diminished in a warm moist 
atmosphere, but food is needed for supplying the energy for 
work, and for the growth of the body. 

" As a class, the weavers appear to be small in stature, spare 
in build, thin in the face, pale in complexion, and have a wearied 



AIR MOVEMENT 291 

look. Many of them complain that their appetites are poor 
and require tempting, and that they suffer from indigestion. 
These conditions cannot be explained otherwise than by the 
prolonged exposure to the effects of the warm, moist atmosphere 
in which the weavers work, for they are not seen in outdoor 
labourers of either sex, or in weavers of jute,* who may earn 
far less wages and have much inferior dwellings, or in workers in 
other industries in Lancashire." 

s One of the writers compared the blood pressure of weavers at 
work with that of other operatives (see table), and showed how 
much lower on an average it was for the weavers (6). He also 
observed on himself a rapid rise of pulse rate to 104 116 while 
making observations in an atmosphere giving wet-bulb readings 
of over 72 F., a point which was further brought out by observa- 
tions upon the operatives, especially those, who indicated by a 
rise of mouth temperature their inability to accommodate their 
heart-regulating mechanism to the conditions. Dr. Legge, 
using a large number of observations, compared the average 
pulse and respiration rate of operatives with mouth tempera- 
tures of 100 F. and over, with those of operatives with tem- 
peratures of 99 to 99-9 F., and found in the former an average 
pulse of 101 and respiration rate of 23; and in the latter a pulse of 
89 and respiration rate of 20. These differences are not in them- 
selves considerable, but when regard is had to their maintenance 
for a long working day, for day after day and week after week, 
they represent a heavy tax thrown on the economic working of 
the body, and partly explain the poor physique of the cotton 
operative who has in the past started work young, possibly as a 
half-timer at twelve, years of age. School records show that 
Lancashire juveniles at that age do not differ much in physique 
from juveniles in other parts of the country, yet by the time 
they are eighteen years of age they have failed to attain the 
- average height of the artisan class by some inch and a half 
or more. 

Movement. Attention has been directed, particularly by 
Dr. L. E. Hill (7), to the importance of air movement in relation 
to health. The nerve endings in the expansive area of the skin 
originate by far the largest group of impulses which are con- 
stantly affecting the central nervous system. Response to 
these impulses decides whether the skin is flushed or pale, 
whether secreting sweat or dry and cold, and whether the nasal 
mucous membrane is taut or soggy. A cold skin depleted of 
blood is an incentive to muscular activity, while at the same 
time the blood stream is diverted to the muscles and deeper 
* A humid warm temperature is not required for weaving jute. 

192 



292 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

structures. A hot perspiring skin centra-indicates physical 
exertion and draws the blood to the surface to allow of heat 
loss. Healthy metabolism depends on sufficient physical 
exercise, and an influence as ubiquitous as air acting through 
the skin, either as an incentive or otherwise, must play an 
important part. Hill says^ " the evaporative power of the 
atmosphere has a far-reaching effect, not only on the comfort of 
the skin, but on the respiratory membrane, the absorption of 
water from the gut, and the renal secretion. The ceaseless, 
variation in the rate of cooling, evaporation, absorption of 
radiant energy, as in outdoor conditions, relieves us from mono- 
tony, stimulates tone and metabolism. Indoors the conditions 
are generally uniform, monotonous and unstimulating. In 
closed artificially heated rooms, cooling and evaporative powers 
are very greatly reduced by the lack of the vastly freer ventila- 
tion which pertains out of doors even on calm days." In 
pressing forward this point of view he removes the whole ques- 
tion of ventilation from supposed injurious chemical products 
of respiration (which, as we have pointed out, are inadequate to 
explain the need) to movement of air of suitable temperature 
and humidity. Stated baldly, a fully occupied room could be 
well ventilated by properly arranged movement of the air with- 
out introducing air from outside ; but such internal movement 
of air without the introduction of air from outside would be 
difficult to arrange, and in practice the air movement advocated 
necessitates change of air. We agree with Hill in pressing the 
importance of air movement, but before agreeing that the 
whole question of ventilation is covered by this factor, desire to 
know whether expired air may not possess certain physical 
rather than chemical properties different from those of inspired 
air ; some unpublished work suggests that this may be the 
case. Whether this ultimately prove to be so or not, we are 
undoubtedly on sure grounds in advocating ventilation by air 
movement as recommended by Hill and in effecting this move- 
ment by introducing fresh air into factories (see also (26)). 

The next question arises as to what amount of air movement 
is required ; to this question Hill has devoted much careful and 
prolonged research. He has designed an instrument (see Fig. 17) 
to measure comparatively and approximately the rate of heat 
loss of the body under varying conditions. In use, the bulb is 
dipped into warm water until the alcohol rises just to the safety 
reservoir, then the instrument is placed in the air to be tested, 
and the time the alcohol takes to fall from 100 F. to 95 F. 
(i.e., through 2| F. above and below normal body temperature) 
is observed with a stop watch ; the instrument is called a kata- 



AIR MOVEMENT 



293 



thermometer because it is a meter of falling temperature 
(Kara down, flep/zo's- heat). By this means the amount of 
heat lost by radiation. and convection is ascertained. But the 



Scale graduated 
from 35 to 
100'fahC 



Safety 
Bulb 



P 



/Housed Joint 



Hing* 



Tenon Joint 



Square 
Base. 



FOLDING STAND 
FOR KATA THERMOMETER. 



KATA THERMOMETER. 

FIG. 17. 

human body, which is practically always sweating, though 
perhaps not visibly, also loses heat by evaporation and resembles 
a wet-bulb thermometer rather than a dry-bulb ; so the kata- 
thermometer is also used wet ; for this purpose a muslin glove 



294 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 



is passed over tlie bulb before it is clipped into warm water. 
The instrument so used gives the cooling power by radiation, 
convection and evaporation, and the difference between the rates 
of cooling of the instrument used dry and wet represents the 
cooling due to evaporation. Thus the instrument is a suitable 
means for measuring the physiological efficiency of air move- 
ment. Each instrument, owing to slight differences in size of 
bulb, thickness of glass and the like, possesses a " factor " of its 
own, for which allowance has to be made before readings can 
be compared ; this standardising factor is stated on the stem. 
The factor divided by the number of seconds the kata takes in 
cooling from 100 F. to 95 F. represents the standard cooling 
power, i.e., the heat loss in milli-calories per square centimetre 
per second ; in practice several readings, from 3 to 5, are taken, 
and the average of these readings is used as the time taken to 
cool ; thus, if the factor stated on the instrument be 520, and 
the average time taken by the dry katathermometer to fall be 
76 seconds, the cooling power of the atmosphere would be 
taken as 520 divided by 76, that is to say, 6-8 milli-calories per 
square centimetre per second. Experience has determined that 
comfortable conditions are represented if the standard cooling 
power of the dry kata is not less than 6 when sedentary work 
is pursued, and not less than 7 for work involving medium 
physical exertion, and that the wet-kata cooling powers should 
for such occupations be not less than 18 and 20 respectively. 
The following figures (8) may be quoted : 



Place. 


Temperature in 
degrees Fahr. 


Cooling powers. 


Evapora- 
tive 
power. 


Wet bulb. 


Dry bulb. 


Wet kata. 


Dry kata, 


Brass foundry (good) 
Machine shop (bad). 


60 
61 


72 
72- 


24 
15 


7-3 

4-6 


16-7 
10-4 



Here the dry and wet bulb readings in the two workplaces are 
practically identical, but the kata readings bring out physio- 
logical differences. 

Rubner holds that every hindrance to heat loss either reduces 
bodily exertion or causes the exertion to be done under a feeling 
of oppression and a burden of weariness. Therefore, the pro- 
duction of sweating must be most energetically countered by 
adequate conditions of environment. The first objective of 
ventilation, then, is to prevent visible sweating by securing a 



AIR MOVEMENT 295 

comfortable rate of cooling' by convection ; for, as Hill puts it, 
"it is the high cooling rate of bracing days which gives the 
desire for, and joy in, the taking of muscular exercise. In the 
tropics work must be done at the expense of the sweating 
mechanism. Living on a low metabolic level and low protein 
diet, e.g., 1,600 calories and 60 grammes protein, the native does 
not do more than a fraction of the work performed by an ordinary 
Englishman " (7, p. 56). 

Energy which should be devoted to muscular work is wasted 
when it is diverted to cooling the body by sweating ; and the 
aim of industrial ventilation should be to stimulate the desire 
for physical work, the desire for healthy activity. The employer 
by having regard to this physiological fact in arranging ventila- 
tion will secure greater efficiency and output ; the worker by 
working in a healthy atmosphere will have increased comfort, 
enjoy better health, and do more work with less fatigue. 

The desiderata have been described (8) as 

" (a) Cool rather than hot ; 

(b) Dry rather than damp ; 

(c) Diverse in temperature in different parts, and at different 

times, rather than uniform and monotonous ; and 
(which is intimately connected with this diversity) 

(d) Moving rather than still." 

Extreme cases of inefficient ventilation are to be found in tin 
mines, where, owing to the hot moist atmosphere, the strain on 
the heat-losing mechanism is so great that practically no energy 
is left over for work (9) ; and also in the Rand gold mines, where 
observations with the wet kata indicate worse physiological 
conditions than on the closest of days in Ceylon (7). In steel 
rolling mills, also, much energy is expended in sweating, and 
output and comfort have been increased by installing air-douches 
to cool the men (10). Further instances might be quoted grading 
down from heavy labour through medium work, e.g., cotton 
weaving (vide p. 289), to sedentary occupations, such as that of 
tailoring, described by Chad wick (vide p. 281). Hill states (7) 
that, " to keep down loss of heat by evaporation, the tailor will be 
right in still air at 15 C., and requires a breeze of more than 
one mile per hour at 27 C. The carpenter, metal worker, and 
painter will be right in still air at C., and need a wind of more 
than one mile an hour at 22 C., two miles at 25 C., and nine 
miles at 30 C. The stonemason a wind of more than one mile 
an hour at 10 C., two miles an hour at 15 C., nine miles an hour 
at 24 C." 

He holds that the physiological mechanism regulating the 
temperature of the body is adapted particularly to ward off the 



296 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

effect of heat, and that danger from heat is greater than danger 
from cold, since the latter in temperate climates can be warded 
off by increased exercise and warmer clothing. Hill has set out 
fully (7) the facts and observations upon which his opinion is 
based ; our purpose is served by recognising (a) the end to be 
attained, viz., a moving and bracing atmosphere, and (b) the 
means for ascertaining whether the end has been attained, viz., 
the use of the katathermometer. 

(iii.) Impurities. 

The reader will see that so far no case has been made out, by 
appeal either to the chemical composition or to the physical 
properties of air, for the introduction of fresh air ; although a 
strong case exists for adequate movement of air of suitable 
temperature and humidity. Yet a general^ agreement exists 
that the introduction of fresh air into occupied rooms is necessary. 
The evidence is not clear why this is so ; but the suggestion has 
been put forward (20, p. 84) that air becomes impure* due to 
various ill-defined volatile substances arising from human 
beings, e.g., gases from the intestinal canal, and emanations from 
sebaceous secretion, especially when personal hygiene is defective. 

Various gases, CH 4 , CO 2> H, N, and H 2 S, have been detected 
in intestinal gases eliminated per rectum, and they may be 
tainted with the disagreeable odour of skatol and indol, which 
are normally present in the lower bowel. These gases which 
arise from bacterial fermentation of proteids may not be actually 
harmful, but they undoubtedly create a feeling of discomfort 
and make the air taste stuffy to any one coming in from outside. 
Nothing definite is known concerning emanations from the skin ; 
but white men find repugnant the odour associated with a place 
occupied by coloured men, while coloured men similarly dislike 
the odour connected with white races. These gases and odours 
undoubtedly make an atmosphere unpleasant and so limit its 
refreshing qualities ; possibly they do more and are the origin 
of headaches and lassitude ; certainly they should be removed, 
and this can only be done by introducing fresh clean air. 

The atmosphere, apart from its chemical or gaseous composi- 
tion, contains impurities in the form of particles of various kinds 
which undoubtedly, when inhaled, exert an important influence 
upon health ; but measurement of this influence is difficult to 
carry out, since other adverse conditions, either physical or due 
to volatile substances, are frequently associated with the pre- 
sence of particulate impurities. 

We have already pointed out that in relation to infant mortality 



ATMOSPHERIC IMPURITIES 



297 



the most important factor for consideration may be a polluted 
state of the atmosphere such as is found in smoky industrial 
towns ; for while the mortality for 1914 per 1,000 births in 





, Mortality from all Respiratory Diseases(incluJing Phthisis) 




24 
25 


i i i i nr f 


26 
25 


24 


/ 


24 


23 
22 


/ 


23 
22 


21 


/Occupied Males 


21 


20 


<WVT AND ~i-r / INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS 


20 


19 


PER SOUAe MIL! PER VEAH / 


*v 

19 


18 
17 


Tons i 
City of London(itOUSTIIilL HTggifHf/>[) 6SO ' 
/ Oeath Rate 


18 
17 


15 


Sutton In Surrey (Agricultural, tmoopher^ = 1 95 / P Uvlni 


16 
15 


14 


y X 


14 


13 


Oeath Rate / 


| l 


12 


Per 1.000 / / 
Living , / 


IJ 

12 


II 


/ / 




10 


/ /Occupied Malea 


10 


9 

8 


X / Agricultural 

. X / DISTRICTS 




7 


X / 




6 


/ 




5 


^^' X / 




4 


''"^ -*^"' 




3 


.''^ ^-*^^**^ 




2 


^"^ 





1 




^7 ** I or ure I I 

\ ^ i i n ; i i i 






FIG. 18. 

Roscommon, Cavan and Leitrim was about 40. that in Barnsley 
w&s 153, in Burnley 158, and in Ashton-under-Lyne 184 (2). 

Some measure of the effect of particulate impurities on adult 
life can be obtained by comparing the mortality through life 

TABLE 2. 



RELATION OF ACUTE LUNG DISEASES TO FOG 
City of Manchester 


Period 


Foft Days 


Death Rate Per 1 ,000 
from 
Acute Lung Diseases 


1896-1900 
19O1 -19OS 


36 -8 
23 -4 


S -04 
4 '28 



from respiratory diseases experienced by males living in the 
country with that of those living in industrial districts (see 
Fig. 18), and also by noting the effect of fog upon the death 
rate from acute lung diseases (see Table 2). 



298 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

Particulate impurities in air may be divided into two groups ; 
the first containing particles capable of exhibiting the phenomena 
of life, i.e., germs ; the second containing particles which do not 
possess this property. Both are important. 

Germs. The probability of ill-health arising under factory 
conditions from air-borne microbic infection rests upon definite 
evidence, for the air of occupied rooms is known to contain 
micro-organisms greater in number, as the rooms lack cleanliness 
and are overcrowded. Thus Carnelly, Haldane, and Anderson 
(18) found in Dundee in two-roomed dwellings ten micro- 
organisms per litre of air in the cleaner dwellings, twenty -two in 
dwellings of average cleanliness, and sixty-nine in dirtier ; but 
in one-roomed dwellings they found eighteen in the cleaner, 
forty-five in the average, and ninety-three in the dirtier ; while 
the outside air in Dundee contained only 0-8 micro-organisms 
per litre. The increase noted was mainly due to bacteria, and 
hot to moulds ; the proportions being one mould to three bacteria 
in outside air, one to twenty in two-roomed dwellings, and one 
to forty-eight in one-roomed dwellings. Few determinations 
have been made of factory air, but the average of thirty-nine 
analyses, made chiefly among printers', book-binders', tailors', 
and milliners' workrooms, gave 8-0 bacteria and 2-2 moulds, or 
10-2 micro-organisms per litre of air. These figures prove that 
bacteria are present in the air of occupied rooms, and so can be 
inhaled. 

All germs are not pathogenic, and estimation of the number 
present at any time in the air is no certain indication of danger 
arising from infection. For this reason we consider it sufficient 
to recognise that air-borne infection does take place ; and that 
" a certain propinquity is required in order that the infected 
saliva spray sneezed, coughed, or spoken out may be distributed 
from a ' carrier ' to another victim. It has been shown that a 
zone within one metre of a consumptive patient is particularly 
dangerous for guinea-pigs, kept within cages and exposed to 
saliva spray infection, and this is particularly so when doors and 
windows are shut in winter. Out of doors folk do not crowd so 
closely, and the ventilation is very much greater ; even on the 
calmest day the air is not still, and convection currents are at 
work ; the saliva spray is blown away, and the infection cannot 
be massive, as it may be indoors or in railway carriages, where 
the atmosphere is comparatively still " (7, p. 142). Examples 
taken from the report just quoted may be instanced from war- 
time experience : the incidence of infective pharyngitis and 
epidemic catarrh on a troopship was ten times as great upon 
the men on three badly ventilated decks as upon those on a 



AERIAL INFECTION 299 

well-ventilated deck (11) ; Canadian troops when moved from 
the discomforts of tent life on Salisbury Plain into huts suc- 
cumbed to an epidemic of sore throats and catarrhs ; a sick 
rate of 7*9 per cent, in an artillery unit was reduced to 1-5 
per cent, in six weeks by better ventilation of tents and 
sunning and airing of bedding, while that of other regiments 
trebled. 

Hill stresses (7, p. 148) the importance of infection through the 
nasal mucous membrane ; in a warm atmosphere it becomes con- 
gested, swollen, and covered with mucus, a veritable trap for 
germs ; on now passing into cold air the membrane becomes pale 
and contracts, in this way imprisoning the germs caught on the 
surface. He writes : " In those who live out of doors not only 
is the membrane kept taut, but the flow of arterial blood through 
it is rapid, for the inhaled air has to be warmed up and moisture 
rapidly evaporated from the membrane, so as to saturate this 
air at body temperature. Thus more lymph comes out into the 
membrane from the blood-vessels, and this contains protective 
substances. Offensive bacteria are either washed away or 
destroyed and thus kept out. On the other hand, a membrane 
covered with thick secretion, and congested, offers a medium 
more suitable for the bacteria to settle and grow on, for it is 
boggy and stagnant, not flooded with fresh lymph, particularly 
when vaso-constriction takes place on passing from an over-hot, 
moist atmosphere into the wintry outside air. The ciliated cells, 
white corpuscles, and lymph may be chilled and the velocity of 
vital reaction reduced when the blood-vessels constrict. Colds 
may not always be a question of reinfection, but of lowered 
resistance to the strains of pneumococci or streptococci which 
people happen to carry in their noses. Stagnant conditions of 
the nose and its sinuses may exalt the virulence of organisms, 
and so spread infections. Epidemics may thus be started by 
carriers whose humoral conditions are altered by unhealthy 
environment." 

All diseases which may be air-borne, such as ordinary " colds," 
sore throat, bronchitis, influenza, measles, cerebro-spinal fever, 
are in their \spread largely influenced by the moist, heated 
atmospheres of indoor life ; if factory workers congregated 
together in large numbers in one establishment are not to 
continue to contract them and distribute them wide cast to their 
homes, steps must be taken to introduce adequate ventilation 
scientifically planned, and also to place workers so that they 
do not sit in rows facing one another on either side of narrow 
work benches, and so that at least 4 feet of sitting space is 
allowed to each. 



300 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

Inorganic Particles. The influence of inorganic particles when 
inhaled varies with the size and nature of the particles. Particles 
must be of a certain minuteness to be inhaled at all ; fairly large 
particles, especially if light, may gain access to the upper air 
passages ; but no particles exceeding 10 /x, in diameter have 
been found in the alveoli and lung tissue. Inhalation of dust 
particles gives rise to a group of diseases known as pneumonoco- 
nioses, which has been fully dealt with by one of us elsewhere 
(12 and 13). Some members of the group, e.g., bronchitis and 
pneumonia, are indistinguishable from the same diseases as they 
occur in the general population ; a short summary of present 
v knowledge is, therefore, here given ; but full discussion properly 
belongs to a work on diseases of occupation. 

Only particles which are insoluble in the fluids of the body 
when carried into the air passages remain as foreign bodies 
either to stimulate the ciliated- epithelium to overaction for their 
expulsion, or, if they gain access to the lymph channels, to give 
rise to a proliferation of connective tissue ; thus dusts of ivory, 
horn, bone, and other animal structures, and of calcium sulphate 
(plaster-of-Paris and alabaster), of limestone, and of oxic}e of 
iron are not associated with pneumonoconioses in the way that 
dusts of vegetable husks, emery, glass, sandstone, and flint are. 
Generally speaking, dusts are more injurious as their chemical 
composition differs from that of the human body, or from the 
elements of which the body is normally composed, whence it 
follows that animal dusts are less injurious than others. Dust 
formed from the husk of vegetable fibres tends to cause a typical 
form of asthma associated with bronchitis. Bronchitis is par 
excellence the chief of the pneumonoconioses, and follows upon 
inhalation in excess of practically every form of dust which is 
insoluble and non-colloidal. Pneumonia; although its associa- 
tion with dust inhalation is not so marked as in the case of 
bronchitis, may result from inhalation of the same dusts that 
cause bronchitis. Phthisis as determined by dust inhalation is 
a distinct disease ; and is only associated with exposure to dust 
of uncombined silica, as for instance the dust of flint, sandstone, 
quartz, quartzite, granite, and buhrstone * it occurs as a 
secondary infection implanted upon a condition of pulmonary 
fibrosis or silicosis ; its correct name is tubercular silicosis. 
This disease occurs exclusively in middle-aged workers, and 
appears to belong to that group of tuberculosis named by Brown- 
lee " middle-age type " (14). 

The interest of inorganic particles lies for this chapter in the 
steps which are needed to prevent their inhalation by the 
application of localised ventilation. 



NATURAL VENTILATION 301 

III. Methods of Ventilation. 

The aims to be attained by ventilation have now been stated, 
viz., (a) to maintain an atmosphere sufficiently moving to be 
bracing, sufficiently warm to avoid undue loss of body heat, 
sufficiently cool and, dry to permit of the working of the 
heat-regulating mechanism of the body, sufficiently free from 
microbic content to avoid the spread of infection ; and (b) to 
prevent injurious particles generated in industrial processes from 
gaining access to the air. 

These objects must be attained (a) through general ventilation 
by introducing fresh air to minimise the spread of infection, 
and by so arranging the ventilation that dry-kata readings are 
not less than six for sedentary work, and seven or more for more 
active labour, and wet-kata readings are not less than eighteen 
or twenty respectively ; and (b) through localised exhaust 
ventilation on the principles stated later. 

(a) General Ventilation. 

General ventilation may be effected by natural means, such as 
windows and chimneys ; or by mechanical means brought about 
by the use^of revolving fans of suitable design. 

Natural Means. Factories in the early days of industrial 
development were frequently converted dwelling houses ; and 
workplaces possessed fireplaces and chimneys. Chimneys, even 
when no fire is burning in the grate, act as ventilating shafts of 
great value ; usually, as the room is warmer than the outside 
air, they function as upcast shafts, but occasionally in summer 
the direction may be reversed. Where there are no special 
openings for incoming air, sufficient generally gains access at 
ill-fitting window sashes or under doors ; and even where these 
chinks and crannies are tightly closed, a certain amount of air 
will come in through walls an amount which is increased if the 
wind is blowing, but diminished if a large proportion of the wall 
space is composed of tightly glazed window glass, and if the walls 
are painted so as to be practically air-tight. In a room of 
1,400 cubic feet with a boarded floor above and only one outside 
wall, when all openings were closed up, the chimney draught was 
found, when there was no appreciable wind, to be 4,450 cubic 
feet per hour, giving a rate of air change of once in three to five 
hours (15, Appendix II.). Small rooms in this respect have an 
advantage over large ones in possessing a proportionately larger 
area of wall surface. " The surface increases as the square, and 
the capacity as the cube, of any corresponding diameter for 



302 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

rooms of the same shape. Thus an increase of eight times in 
the capacity will correspond to increase of only four times in the 
surface. Very large rooms, when unprovided with openings 
for ventilation, may thus contain very foul air, although the air 
space per person is very large " (15, p. 110). This is an important 
point in view of the modern tendency to construct large work- 
rooms, which, since they often provide an air space per worker 
far in excess of the minimum of 250 cubic feet laid down in the 
Factory Acts, may be expected to be satisfactory ; thus in 
contrast to the small rooms referred to above may be quoted a 
spinning room of 91,500 cubic feet, occupied by only nine persons, 
in which the windows were tightly glazed, and the walls painted ; 
here the rate of air change was found to be not more than about 
once in twenty-four hours. 

The structure of the roof, in addition to that of the walls, has 
an important influence upon ventilation : in a church and a hall 
of relatively large size with easily permeable roofs the air was 
changed about once in three hours ; while in a cotton weaving 
shed of 388,800 cubic feet with a roof almost air-tight (as it was 
covered by an asphalted water tank) the rate of air change was 
only about once in twenty-nine hours. 

Another factor, in addition to windage, which may affect the 
exchange of air through walls is the difference between the 
inside and outside temperature ; a difference of about 18 F. 
(the inside being the higher) has been found associated in 
a weaving shed with ventilation about three times as great as 
when there was no difference. The value of windows, even 
though not open to air movement, should be noted. Warm air 
coming in contact with the glass kept cool by the outside air is 
cooled ; it then becomes heavier and falls to the floor. In this 
way a steady circulation of air occurs, which is prevented by 
covering the windows with blinds or curtains. This effect can 
often be demonstrated on a winter evening, if a sitting-room 
feels unduly warm, by drawing back the curtains and pulling 
up the blinds, when in a few minutes, as the air circulates more 
freely, the oppressive feeling in the room disappears. In modern 
factories the sides of which are often largely formed of window 
lights, this influence upon the movement of air in workrooms is 
considerable and does much to prevent the air becoming stagnant. 
Generally speaking, " in small rooms, provided there is an open 
chimney, no gas burning, and an air space of not less than 1,000 
cubic feet per person, the ventilation may often be fairly sufficient 
without open windows or other special means of ventilation. 
With a good coal fire burning in the grate the ventilation is 
likely to be fair, even with only 400 cubic feet of air space per 



MECHANICAL VENTILATION 303 

person. The larger the size of the room, however, the greater 
becomes the need of special openings for ventilation ; and in 
rooms of over 5,000 cubic feet open windows or special venti- 
lators are nearly always necessary unless the air space per 
person is very large or the roof is very permeable to air " 
(15, pp. 110111). 

Mechanical Means. While a small room with a comparatively 
large outside wall area, a chimney and windows, may possibly be 
reasonably ventilated without having recourse to mechanical 
means for introducing fresh air and removing tainted air, the 
same cannot be said for the large apartments which form 
the greater part of modern factories. Here fireplaces and 
chimneys are non-existent, as the room is usually warmed by 
pipes or radiators heated with hot water or steam. The problem 
to be solved is how to change the air of such large apartments 
sufficiently frequently without creating unpleasant draughts, or 
unduly lowering the temperature ; so long as these two points are 
avoided, the more rapid the change of air, the, better will be the 
effect. The problem then comes to be to ascertain what frequency 
of air change is possible ; and much help can be obtained from 
the schemes adopted in relation to the process of coating the 
canvas-covering of aeroplane wings and bodies. The object of 
the process is to coat the fabric with a cellulose skin ; and a 
dope composed of a solution of cellulose compounds in various 
volatile spirits is used. After the dope is applied the spirits 
evaporate and leave the cellulose behind. The fumes arising 
cause unpleasant symptoms headaches and sore throat ; when 
tetrachlorethane was one of the solvent spirits used, its fumes 
caused serious poisoning among the workers who breathed them, 
associated with gastric disturbances, jaundice and liver destruc- 
tion, the typical symptoms of toxic jaundice. The removal of 
these fumes became a matter of urgent necessity ; but the 
temperature of the rooms had to be maintained between 65 and 
70 F. to promote sufficiently rapid evaporation of the spirits ; 
and local draughts had to be avoided or the varnish dried in 
patches. Localised exhaust ventilation was found impracticable 
owing to the large surface of the aeroplane wings varnished at 
one time. The difficulties have been finally overcome by con- 
structing rooms with large exhaust fans placed at the floor level 
in one wall, while air passing 'over hot pipes is admitted through 
hoppered openings situated in the opposite wall at a height of 
8 to 10 feet above the floor. As the end in view is moving large 
volumes of air, low pressure, so-called " propeller," fans are 
used. Thirty or forty changes of air per hour in doping rooms 
were obtained by these means without the creation of any 



304 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 



appreciable draught and with advantage to the drying of the 
material. 

We appear in this plan to have approached near to the ideal 
way of ventilating and at the same time maintaining a reasonable 
temperature in workplaces. The rapidity of air change required 
in doping rooms, though advantageous, is in excess of that abso- 
lutely necessary for health and comfort when sedentary work is 
in progress ; a change of air, varying with the time of year, 
equivalent to from six to ten times the content of the room 
every hour, may be sufficient. 

Ventilation by Extraction. The method referred to above of 
sweeping air through a room by drawing air out and allowing 
fresh air to take its place is the one which generally is simplest 
in action and most readily installed. Propeller fans (see Fig. 19), 
owing to their capacity for moving large volumes of air with 
but little expenditure of power, provide the most suitable means 
available. 

TABLE 3. Speed and Output of Propeller Fans. 





Speed range (revol. per 
minute). 


Output range (k= 0-6*) 
(cubic feet per minute). 


Diameter 






(inches). 












Minimum. 


Maximum. 


Minimum 
speed,. 


Maximum 
speed. 


12 


1,300 


2,100 


780 


1,260 


15 


1,050 


1,685 


1,230 


1,970 


18 


850 


1,400 


1,720 


2,835 


20 


760 


1,265 


2,110 


3,510 


24 


630 


1,050 


3,02Q 


5,040 


25 


610 


1,015 


3,310 


5,510 


30 


510 


840 


4,780 


7,875 


35 


440 


715 


6,550 


10,640 


36 


425 


700 


6,890 


11,340 


40 


380 


625 


8,440 


13,890 


42 


360 


590 


9,260 


15,180 


45 


340 


550 


10,760 


17,400 


48 


320 


525 


12,290 


20,160 


50 


305 


510 


13,240 


22,140 


54 


295 


490 


16,130 


26,790 



* k is a constant, the value of which varies somewhat according to the 
construction of the fan, but is in practice usually about 0-6 ; if the value 
of k reaches 0-7 or more the output range will be higher. 

The fan power required in each case is a matter for an engineer, 
but some idea may be gathered from the following data. A 
4-foot propeller fan should discharge not less than 12,000 cubic 



PROPELLER FANS 



805 



feet of air per minute, or 200 cubic feet per second (see table). 
The horse-power required may be calculated from the formula 

Q3 

Horse-power = - x 0-0000115 

where Q = quantity of air in cubic feet discharged per second ; 
and D = diameter of fan in feet. In the instance given of a 
4-foot fan the horse-power required to drive it would be 

200 3 

X 0-0000115 = 0-36 horse-power. 
4 4 

This expenditure of power is slight compared with the volume of 




FIG. 19. Cross Ventilation of Dope Room. 

(Extraction fans at floor level.) 

Ventilating and. Heating Plant by Sturtevant Engineering Co., Ltd., London. 
Reproduced from (24). 

air moved which would be sufficient to change six times an hour 
the air of a room 15 feet high, 100 feet long, and 80 feet wide. 
" The air-delivery by a propeller fan varies in direct proportion 
to its rate of revolution, while the power needed to drive it varies 
as the cube of its velocity. Hence for a given expenditure of 
power much more air is propelled with a low than with a high 
rate of revolution. In practice, however, it is best to run a fan 
at a considerable velocity ; otherwise the flow of air may easily 
be greatly diminished, or even reversed, by the influence of 
wind " (16, p. 4). 



306 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 



The best position for a fan extracting air is at or near the 
floor level. Openings for admitting air should be placed at not 
less than 8 to 10 feet from the floor in the wall opposite to that 
in which the fan or fans are placed ; the area of the openings 
should be distributed as far as may be to ensure that the incoming 
air reaches every part of the room. They should also be fitted 
with hoppers on the inside to prevent any down draught. 

Propeller fans will not work effectively against any pressure ; 
and resistance, either to the air delivered, or by constriction of 
the air inlets, may diminish vthe efficiency of a propeller fan ' 
almost to nothing, even though considerable power is being 
expended in maintaining its rate of revolution ; attention, 
therefore, must be paid to the openings for 
admitting air, and to the discharge side of 
the fan. 

The provision of ample inlet openings for 
admitting air to a room is important, not 
only to ensure that the fan is in no way 
baffled, but to prevent the air entering with 
a velocity exceeding 250 feet per minute. 
A velocity above that limit, even though 
the air is warmed, may create an unpleasant 
sensation of draught. The standard to aim 
at is that " the minimum total inlet area 
should be at least three times the total disc 
area of the extraction fans " (24). In cal- 
culating this area, allowance must be made 
for any obstruction offered for a battery of 
hot pipes used for warming the incoming 
air, or by any filtering material used for 
removing dust such material in industrial towns quickly 
becomes choked and requires frequent attention. 

Provision must also be made for free discharge of air from the 
fan. For this purpose the opening on the discharge side, if not 
direct into the outside air, must be rather larger than the fan 
both in breadth and height, and there should be no obstruction 
in front of the opening. Should the opening be exposed to the 
wind, which will easily overcome the power of the fan, it should 
be carefully shielded. The output of a fan can be measured by 
taking a series of readings with an anemometer held on the 
delivery side within 1 foot of the fan ; but the efficacy of the 
work it is doing is best ascertained by having recourse to kata- 
thermometer readings taken inside the room. 

Ventilation by Impulsion or Plenum. The construction of 
premises or the requirements of special processes may necessitate 




FIG. 20. Screened 
Inlet with Heater. 
Reproduced from 
(24). 



PLENUM VENTILATION 307 

a reversal of the exhaust method of ventilation ; and fresh air 
may have to be driven into the workplace. This system is 
known as plenum ventilation. It may be needed to introduce 
fresh air into the centre of capacious rooms, such as are to be 
found in many modern factories ; in these rooms Ae width may 
be too great to ensure sufficient air movement in all parts with 
exhaust fans and air inlets in the walls ; or again where there 
is exposure to great heat, as before furnaces in rolling mills 
or in the manufacture of glass, cool air may be needed locally 
as a douche for the workers. Plenum ventilation is usually 
effected by driving air through channels or ducts which open 




FIG. 21. Cold Air Plenum for Glass Works. 

Ventilating Plant by Sturtevant Engineering Co., Ltd., London. 
Reproduced from (24). 

in desired positions. However well planned, these ducts offer 
resistance to air movement, and the air should be driven 
forward by centrifugal or pressure fans, i.e., by fans which will 
move the air against pressure. In mines where complicated 
underground workings have to be ventilated, fans are used 
which will maintain a pressure of 12 inches on a water gauge ; 
but in factories, fans capable of giving pressures of 2| inches 
or less are usually employed. Pressure fans require more power 
than propeller fans for moving the same amount of air ; when 
the volume of air to be moved is the object rather than the 
rate of removal, economy is effected by running the fans slowly 
and having large ducts. 

Air driven into a room will tend to find its way out through 
any openings there are, but the efficiency of the ventilation will 

202 



308 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

be impaired if definite exits are not provided. The best position 
for these exits is low down in the walls and so arranged that the 
incoming air sweeps through the room before reaching them. 

Each room will present problems of its own ; neither exhaust 
nor plenum alone may suit the case ; but the principles described 
for ventilation by exhaust or by plenum apply equally when for 
any reason the two methods have to be used in combination. 
Air may stagnate in certain parts of large rooms supplied with 
an adequate amount of fresh air by the plenum system, unless 
localised exhaust fans are installed. Or again, when sufficient 
fresh air is being introduced advantage can be obtained from the 
use of paddles fixed on revolving shafting to create air movement 
and waft otherwise still air into the general circulation. 



(b) Localised Exhaust Ventilation. 

The principles involved have been set out by the Health of 
Munition Workers Committee (8) with which one of us was 
associated, and we feel we cannot do better than reproduce 
here that Committee's statement. 

The essentials of localised exhaust ventilation are : (a) a duct 
along which a flow of air is maintained in a definite direction ; 
and (b) a localised opening or openings in this duct, through 
which sufficient air is admitted to allow the flow of air to be 
maintained. The air so admitted carries with it any dust or 
fumes the removal of which is desired ; and this action may be 
made effective for the purpose of removing from the atmosphere 
of workplaces of (1) dust ; (2) heated fumes such as arise from 
melting scrap lead and other poisonous materials ; or (3) volatile 
vapours and gases such as are evolved when india-rubber is 
vulcanised and in certain chemical processes. The principles 
underlying effective action differ for each of these purposes. 

Removal of Dust. The removal of dust is best effected by an 
air current produced by mechanical power, preferably by a 
pressure fan, and so arranged as to prevent the dust particles 
escaping from the place where they are produced into the general 
atmosphere. For this purpose the openings in the ducts should 
terminate in hoods shaped so as to envelop, as far as practicable, 
the seat of origin of the dust. In the case of dust from a revolving 
wheel the hood and duct should be so placed as to intercept the 
dust which is thrown tangentially from the wheel, and to catch 
dust which would otherwise fall to the ground ; the dust then 
comes under the influence of the air current in the hood and is 
drawn into the duct, while the air current itself is assisted by 
the air thrown off by the wheel. The heavier dust particles, 



PRESSURE FANS 309 

especially of abrasive materials, may be allowed to fall into a 
receptacle at the bottom of the hood and removed at intervals. 
In this way only the lighter particles are carried through the 
ducts and the wear and tear on them and on the fan is thus 
minimised. Where dust is created by manual labour the opera- 
tive should stand or sit facing the opening of the hood, so that 
the current of air draws the dust away from him. 

Removal of Heated Fumes. The removal of heated fumes may 
often be effected without using mechanical power if the area of 




FIG. 22. Pressure Fan. Reproduced by permission 
of Messrs. Keith and Blackman. 

the fume-producing surface is not too large, but to secure this 
the duct should be vertical, of ample diameter and height, 
and surmounted by a suitable wind cowl, while the lower end 
should open gradually into a bell-mouthed hood. The lower 
end of the hood should envelop and extend below the place 
where the heated fumes originate. The opening to the hood 
should only be large enough to permit of necessary manipu- 
lations. The errors usually found in this form of exhaust 
ventilation are (i.) the opening to the hood may be too large and 
air currents in the workplace carry the fumes away before they 
come under the influence of the draught ; (ii.) owing to the 



310 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

sides of the hood too nearly approaching the horizontal, the area 
within the hood may be too small ; (iii.) the height of the 
upcast shaft or vertical duct may be insufficient ; and (iv.) pro- 
vision may not be made to avoid down draught due to 
wind. The natural draught in such hoods can often be supple- 
mented by means of a jet of compressed air discharged up the 
shaft. 

Removal of Volatile Vapours. Volatile vapours such as those 
given off when fabric is waterproofed with rubber solution, are 
difficult to localise. If, as is usually the case when noxious 
vapours have to be dealt with, the vapour is heavier than air, 
the openings to the duct must be at the ground level and as 
near as practicable to the place where the vapour is given off. 
The air current must be so arranged that large volumes of air 
are drawn away, and ample openings for incoming air must be 
arranged at a moderate height in the workroom. 

Air Inlets. Factors essential to any form of localised exhaust 
ventilation are the distribution and size of openings for air coming 
into the workroom generally. To obtain an interchange of air 
and so secure general ventilation these openings should be 
placed as far as possible from the exhaust openings, preferably 
on the opposite side of the workroom ; to avoid draughts, such 
openings should be of ample area (vide supra). The supply of 
incoming air may, in some cases, be ensured by the use of a 
pressure fan driving in air through well distributed openings. 

Faults to Avoid. In practice the efficiency of exhaust plants 
is frequently found impaired by lack of attention to details : 
(i.) the hood to collect dust may be too small, in which case dust 
flying from a wheel is not intercepted ; (ii.) the shape of the 
hoods may be faulty, in which case dust accumulates on areas 
having an inclination towards the throat less than the angle of 
rest of the dust ; or, in the case of heated fumes, the expanding 
gases rebound and escape from the hood like smoke from a 
badly-constructed domestic chimney ; (iii.) the duct opening 
may be so small that dust collects there and blocks the opening ; 
(iv.) the inlets to the workplace may be insufficient to admit 
freely the amount of air required, in which case the air flow in 
the ducts is slowed, and, if a fan is being used, power is wasted 
in overcoming unnecessary resistance ; (v.) bends in the ducts 
if too sharp impede the flow of air ; (vi.) where dust is being 
dealt with, dust-settling chambers of insufficient size or with 
insufficient openings may have been provided ; (vii.) insufficient 
attention may have been paid to the plant erected ; hoods 
detached from ducts, holes broken into ducts, and ducts blocked 
with every kind of debris have been found in well-planned 



MAINTENANCE OF VENTILATION 



311 



installations and in places where considerable power is being 
expended to drive exhaust fans. 

Types of Fan. Generally speaking, where a keen draught, as 
for the removal of dust, is required, pressure fans should be 
employed ; since these fans, though requiring more power to 
drive, can work against considerable pressure, smaller ducts 
may be used. Where, on the other hand, large volumes of air, 
as for the removal of vapours, are to be moved, volume or pro- 
peller fans can be more economically employed ; but with such 
fans attention to the sectional area of the ducts is of great 
importance ; the ducts must never be constricted at any point, 
the total area of the openings must be considerably greater than 
that of the fan, and all sharp bends 
in the ducts must be avoided ; 
further, the delivery side of the 
fan .must not be impeded or so 
placed as to be exposed to the 
action of wind. 

Maintenance. N early every 
workplace where localised exhaust 
ventilation is required presents 
special problems of its own for the 
.solving of which technical advice 
may be necessary, but adherence 
to the principles above enumerated 
will effect great improvement. In 
particular, wherever an exhaust 
system has been installed the duty 
should be placed on some respon- 
sible person of testing and reporting 

to the management at stated intervals on the efficiency and 
maintenance of the installation. 

Further information as to the construction of ducts and hoods 
will be found in the Home Office paper on ventilation in factories 
and workshops (24) ; in the second report of the Departmental 
Committee on Ventilation of Factories and Workshops (17) ; 
and, especially in relation to the use of propeller fans, in the 
report of the Departmental Committee on Earthenware and 
China (22). 

IV. Respirators. 

Exhaust ventilation cannot always be employed to prevent 
dangerous dust escaping into the air, as for instance in stone- 
masons' work, or in filling and emptying silica-brick kilns. 
Recourse must then be had to respirators. The majority of 




-Reproduced by p 
il of Messrs. Keeli 



>er- 



FIG. 23. ] 

mission ot Messrs. Keeling 
& Walker, Stoke-on-Trent. 



3\2 REASONS FOR AND METHODS OF VENTILATION 

respirators sold have one fundamental fault ; shaped like a 
dog's muzzle they contain a space in front of the mouth and 
nose in which the last part of the expired air is retained. This 
air is of necessity rebreathed, and the wearer must breathe rather 
deeper to get rid of the normal amount of carbon dioxide. 
For this reason these respirators cause breathlessness on exertion 
and are to be condemned. Probably no form of perfect respirator 
can be devised, but the one here illustrated is designed on 
scientific principles as laid down by Sir H. Cunynghame (21), 
and is open to feA^er objections than any other. 

V. Bibliography. 

1. Report of Poor Law Commissioners into the Sanitary Condition of 
the Labouring Population of Great Britain, p. 107. 1842. 

2. " The Mortalities of Birth, Infancy and Childhood." Medical 
Research Committee. Special Report Series, No. 10. 1917. 

3. Notter and Firth. Theory and Practice of Hygiene. 1896. 

4. Greenwood, M. " Physiological and Pathological Effects which 
.follow exposure to Compressed Air." Arris and Gale Lectures. 

British Medical Journal. April, 1908. 

5. Departmental Committee on Humidity and Ventilation in Cotton 
Weaving Sheds. Minutes of Evidence. (Cd. 4485.) 1909. 

6. Departmental Committee on Humidity and Ventilation in Cotton 
Weaving Sheds. Second Report, ^Cd. 5566.) 1911. 

7. Hill, L. E. " The Science of Ventilation," Part I. Medical 
Research Committee. Special Report Series, No. 32. 1919. 

8. " Ventilation and Lighting of Munition Factories," Health of 
Munition Workers Committee. Memo. No. 9. (Cd. 8215.) 1916. 

' 9. Report on the Health of Cornish Miners. (Cd. 2091.) 1904. 

10. Vernon, H. M. " the Influence of Hours of Work and of 
Ventilation on Output in Tinplate Manufacture." Industrial Fatigue 
Research Board. Report No. I. 1919. 

11. British Medical Journal, Vol. I., p. 257. 1919. 

1 2. Collis, E. L. " The Effect of Dust in Producing Diseases of the 
Lungs." Proc. Seventeenth International Congress of Medicine. 
Section XVIII. 1913. 

13. Collis, E. L. Industrial Pneumonoconioses. Milroy Lectures 
(1915). H.M. Stationery Office. 1919. 

14. Brownlee, J. " An Investigation into the Epidemiology of 
Phthisis in Great Britain and Ireland." Medical Research Com- 
mittee. Special Report Series, Parts I. and II., No. 18, 1918 ; Part 
III., No. 46, 1920. 

15. Departmental Committee on Ventilation of Factories and Work- 
shops. First Report, (Cd. 1302.) 1902. 

16. Departmental Committee on Ventilation of Factories and Work- 
shops. Second Report, Part I. (Cd. 3552.) 1907. 

17. Departmental Committee on Ventilation of Factories and Work- 
shops. Second Report, Part II. (Cd. 3553.) 1907. 

18. Carnelly, Haldane and Anderson. Philosoph. Trans., B. 1887. 

19. Thorndike, E. L., McCall, W. A., and Chapman, J. C. Ventila- 
tion in Relation to Mental Work, Teachers' College, Columbia 
University. 1916, 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 313 

20. Health of Munition Workers Committee. Final Report. 
(Cd. 9065.) 19i8. 

21. Royal Commission on Metalliferous Mines and Quarries. 
Second Report, Appendix F. (Cd. 7476.) 1914. 

22. Pendock, C. R. Report of Departmental Committee on Earthen- 
ware and China, Vol. II., Appendix XLVIII. (Cd. 5278.) 1910. 

23. " Second Report of the Mine Rescue Apparatus Research 
Committee." Department of Scientific and Industrial Research. 
H.M. Stationery Office. 1920. 

24. Ventilation of Factories and Workshops. Home Office. H.M. 
Stationery Office. 1920. 

25. Hill, L. E. " The Science of Ventilation," Part II. Medical 
Research Council. Special Report Series,. No. 52. 1920. 

26. Huntington, E. Civilisation and Climate. "Yale University 
Press. 1915. 



CHAPTER XIV 

LIGHTING 

I. Effect upon General Health. II. Effect upon Eyesight : Glare. 
III. Insufficient Light. IV. Influence of Light on the Occurrence of 
Industrial Accidents. V. Economic Value of Illumination. VI. The 
Measurement of Illumination. VII. Natural Lighting. VIII. Arti- 
ficial Lighting : General Illumination ; Local Illumination. 
IX. Standards of Illumination. X. Bibliography. 

THE effect upon industrial efficiency exerted by the lighting 
of workplaces is considerable ; a greater amount of better and 
more accurate work is done where illumination is adequate. 
Yet, although lighting has this important aspect, the attention 
paid to the subject during industrial development has not been 
commensurate with the need ; with this aspect, however, we are 
hardly concerned, except in so far as improved facilities for 
work react beneficially upon the well-being and psychology of 
the workers ; but lighting has also other aspects to which the 
Committee (1) on Lighting in Factories and Workshops drew 
attention in 1915. They point out " the recognition that 
defective illumination may be a contributory cause to accidents, 
may be injurious to the health and eyesight of workers, and may 
exercise a prejudicial effect on the output- and quality of work, 
has led to a general interest in the question of industrial 
illumination." 

I. Effect upon General Health. 

There is no evidence that want of light directly produces any 
specific effect upon general health ; Arctic explorers do not 
report any peculiar effect upon general health associated with 
prolonged absence of sunlight during the winter months ; the 
same holds good for miners, who work for years underground 
during the day, and their ponies and horses who for years spend 
all their lives in mines. Nevertheless unsatisfactory illumina- 
tion exerts in several indirect ways a definite harmful influence 
on general health, and a direct harmful influence on eyesight. 

Sunlight is known to be inimical to the life of most pathogenic 
organisms ; a gelatine plate evenly sown with micro-organisms, 
covered with a photographic positive, and set to incubate in 
sunlight, will present a living reproduction of the picture, owing 
to the growth of organisms being densest where least light 
penetrates, and least where most penetrates. The tubercle 



EYESIGHT 315 

bacillus in particular may be instanced as a micro-organism of 
which the vitality is destroyed by direct sunlight and much 
impaired by exposure to daylight. While daylight is harmful 
to microbic life, it stimulates a healthy skin reaction, and exerts 
a beneficial effect which is in danger of being overlooked due to 
the prominence given to atmospheric influences, especially when 
" open-air " life is under discussion. This effect is clearly 
demonstrated in plants, which decline to flourish in the 
absence of light. The introduction into workshops of hardy 
plants and ferns, which is sometimes practised, is a sound pro- 
ceeding ; apart from adding a touch of beauty, they provide a 
useful test of light and air. Where plants refuse to live, human 
beings should only be called upon to exist under exceptional 
circumstances. The more daylight, therefore, there is in the 
rooms where workers are congregated together, the less is the 
chance of the spread of infectious diseases and the better will 
be their general health. Adequate illumination also discloses 
the presence of accumulations of refuse and dirt, which, when 
disturbed as workers pass to and fro, infect the air with the 
microbes they harbour. Where food is prepared, such as in fruit 
preserving factories and bakehouses, the presence of refuse is 
undesirable in the interests of manufacture, and adequate 
lighting is required by statute. . 

II. Effect upon Eyesight. 

The influence exerted by light upon eyesight has two extremes. 
The first, due to the absence of sufficient light, causes a special 
disease known as nystagmus. This disease is characterised by 
unsteady gait, headache, and curious oscillatory movements of 
the eyeball ; it practically only occurs among coal miners, and 
among those miners who work with safety-lamps ; it is not 
found among miners working with naked lights. The glass 
which surrounds the light of a safety-lamp becomes dimmed 
with smoke as work proceeds, while coal dust collecting on the 
gauze curtails the air supply to the light. This disease, which 
is extremely distressing, entirely incapacitates a man from con- 
tinuing as a miner ; if not too far advanced he may recover, after 
prolonged absence from underground work, but the condition fre- 
quently reappears if he resumes his old occupation. Llewellyn 
estimates that to-day 6,000 miners are disabled each year through 
this disease, with a cost through compensation of 1,000,000 a 
year to the industry. The introduction of a safety-lamp giving 
greater illumination would rapidly lead to the disappearance of 
this disease ; every effort is being made to produce a lamp 



316 LIGHTING 

which, while possessing the advantages of the present safety- 
lamp, will give an illumination of O'l foot-candles * at the 
working face. 

The second, due to exposure to intense light and heat, causes 
a special form of cataract, posterior polar cataract, first described 
by Legge among glass workers. It also occurs among other 
workers, e.g., those exposed to the rays of molten metal. The 
prevalence of cataract in India is also generally ascribed to 
exposure to excessive sunlight. 

Description of these two diseases belongs to a work on Diseases 
of Occupation rather than to one on general industrial health, 
therefore more than passing reference to their existence is 
omitted. Between these two extremes light exerts -an important 
influence upon the eyesight of workers, grading from exposure 
to the intolerable brightness of arc welding, through the glare 
of badly arranged illumination, to eyestrain at fine work due to 
insufficient light. 

Glare. Glare is defined as follows by the Committee : 

" (i.) The effect of looking directly at a bright source of light, 
such as an arc lamp, so that the observer is for the time being 
prevented from seeing other objects properly. He is temporarily 
dazzled and his vision is impaired for a short period after the 
light has ceased to enter his eye.s. 

" (ii.) The effect which is produced by the presence of one or 
more bright sources of light towards the edge of the field of 
vision so that the rays enter the eye obliquely from them. An 
observer may never look directly at such sources of light, but he 
is nevertheless troubled by their presence near to the object to 
which he is looking. This is the commonest form of glare. 
Both the above forms of glare (i.) and (ii.) are directly attribu- 
table to the presence of unshaded sources of light. 

" (iii.) The effect which is produced when the surface of cloth, 
metal, paper, or other material being worked upon is shiny or 
polished, and reflects light directly from some source into the 
eyes of the worker. Many satin cloths, for instance, have a 
4 sheen ' or a power of regular reflection of light which causes 
work with such materials to be very trying unless the worker is 
so placed with reference to the source of light that none of the 
rays can be directly reflected from the material into his eyes." 

Glare causes " annoyance, headache, and other trouble and, 
often, eventually, diminished ability to see/' This statement 
may be accepted, even though no accurate determination has 

* For definition of a foot-candle see top of page 322. On the Continent 
the "meter-candle," about one-tenth of a foot-candle, is the unit of 
measurement. 



INSUFFICIENT LIGHT 317 

been made as to the extent to which exposure to various forms 
of glare is associated with these manifestations. 

III. Insufficient Light. 

The pupil of the eye dilates in dim light and contracts in 
strong light. Similarly it dilates for distant vision, while the 
act of accommodation for near vision carries with it constriction 
of the pupil ; the act of narrowing the pupil is of value to near 
vision, since, by diaphragming the lens, the definition is improved 
and more exact vision, such as is needed for close work, is 
obtained (6). Should, however, illumination be insufficient, the 
pupil will tend to dilate in order to admit more light, an act 
which in its turn will be countered by the necessity to accommo- 
date for near vision. Thus, deficient light, especially for near 
work, leads to a constant struggle, an important factor in the 
complex of " eyestrain." The effect of eyestrain due to 
defective lighting is well recognised among workers upon 
delicate operations such as sewing, and fine engineering work ; 
headache and nervous irritability result, while both the quality 
and quantity of output suffer. Whether or not fine eye-work 
long continued under defective illumination actually impairs 
visual acuity has never been definitely ascertained. Opinions 
expressed on this subject are open to attack, because we cannot 
be sure that the defects revealed by examination did not exist 
before the work was undertaken ; the prevalence at any eye 
infirmary of refraction cases coming from occupations such 
as lace making and weaving, is no certain evidence that these 
occupations have caused the trouble. The proportion of ocular 
defects present among school children is known, but there 
is no guide to what normally exists among adults at various 
periods of life. Without such a standard for comparison, the 
.observation that at certain processes such as embroidery and 
tailoring, the use of spectacles is unusually prevalent, only 
establishes a certain prevalence of ocular defects among those 
workers ; but the prevalence of these defects is in itself a suffi- 
cient reason why special attention should always be given to the 
illumination provided. The human eye was not evolved for 
long continued fine industrial work, and every possible assistance 
in the way of adequate and satisfactory light should be given to 
enable it to meet this demand upon its capacity. 

IV. Influence of Light on the Occurrence of Industrial Accidents. 

Illumination in daylight hours may generally.be taken to be 
better than that when artificial light is employed, and Wilson and 



318 



LIGHTING 



Paterson (2) have investigated the incidence of notified industrial 
accidents during these two periods. They found that this class 
of accident was generally 29 per cent, more frequent during the 
hours when artificial light was used, and that the increase was 
especially great in the case of accidents due to " persons 
falling," see table. An appeal to accidents in the mining 
industry showed that, although an increase took place inthe dark 
winter months, it was not a seasonal one ; as here the accident 
rate underground in the winter was less than in the summer, 
while on the surface the rate was greater in the winter than in the 



summer. 



Computed Rate of Notified Accidents in 1913 : (a) During 
Daylight, and (b) during Artificial Light. 






Accident 


rate per 






hour. 


Percen- 


Causation. 






tage 
differ- 


D Ii'h1 Al ' liricial 


- 


ence. 


Machinery moved by mechanical power 


16-62 


19-64 


18 


Molten metal ..... 


2-58 


2-96 


15 


Struck by falling bodies 


9-43 


12-46 


32 


Persons falling. .... 


7-16 


12-32 


71 



Vernon, however, has pointed out (3) that the method of 
investigation adopted is liable to sources of error, such as the 
temperature factor, which may account for an excess of acci- 
dents in winter months, since these months are not only dark, 
but also cold, -and more accidents occur in cold weather than in 
warm. He investigated during wartime the frequency ,of minor 
accidents in engineering factories, comparing night-shifts with 
day-shifts, and concluded .that lighting had very little influence 
upon this class of accidents, but did influence accidents to the 
eye. He found accidents to the eye more frequent by night, and 
that the frequency increased with the inadequacy of the lighting. 
" An attempt to trace the relation between inadequate illumina- 
tion and accidents has also been made in the United States. 
Mr. R. E. Simpson," writes Mr. Gaster, " quotes statistics 
obtained by the Travellers Insurance Co., who estimated that of 
91,000 accidents studied in 1910, 23-8 per cent, were due to 



VALUE OF ILLUMINATION 319 

imperfect illumination. After eight years' work this proportion 
has been reduced to 18 per cent., but even so it is estimated that 
during this period the services of 108,000 men for one year have 
been lost through preventable accidents. . . . The prevention of 
industrial accidents due to faulty lighting is thus a measure which 
is amply justified on economic grounds alone, besides being, of 
course, a measure which ought to be taken in the interests of 
humanity." 

There are, however, so many other factors at work deter- 
mining the causation of accidents, such as length of hours, 
rapidity of work, and the varying psychology of the workers at 
the beginning and end of the working spell, that any statistical 
estimate as to effect of illumination can only be approximate ; 
indeed, evidence is hardly required to establish the case, that in 
the absence of adequate light, muscular action is less accurate 
and more liable to error. 



V. Economic Value of Illumination. 

The economic value of lighting hardly falls within our pur- 
view, but interest attaches to certain results which have been 
obtained. Witnesses before the Lighting Committee (1) reported 
in one instance that the output for daylight hours was 12-3 per 
cent, above that for the hours, of artificial light ; and in another 
that an increase of earnings of 11-4 per cent, followed the in- 
stallation of improved illumination. Gaster (5) quotes a valuable 
experiment in progress in America where " improved illumination 
resulted in an increased output ranging from 8 to 27 per cent, in 
different departments when the illumination was increased three 
times, i.e., from 4 to 12 foot-candles. In another case, where 
the illumination was twenty-five times the inadequate value 
originally employed, increases in output of from 30 to 100 per 
cent, were observed. On a conservative estimate it was con- 
cluded that an increased cost of lighting amounting to not more 
than 5 per cent, of the pay-roll would lead to an increased production 
of quite 15 per cent." 

Lighting at pre-war prices used to cost in a typical machine 
shop about 0-3 per cent, of total cost of production, and about 
1 per cent, of the wages bill, and Gaster remarks, " only a very 
small improvement in: output would be needed to compensate 
for the cost of better lighting, quite apart from the other advan- 
tages referred to previously, such as better health of employees, 
less fatigue and nerve strain, etc., all of which are difficult to 
assess commercially." 

An interesting comparison has been made (8) between hourly 



320 LIGHTING 

curves of output in silk weaving (a) during December, when the 
use of artificial light was at its maximum, averaging sixty-nine 
minutes in the morning and eighty- five minutes in the afternoon ; 
(b) during February, when artificial light was used on the 
average sixty -one minutes in the morning and forty-seven 
minutes in the afternoon, and (c) during April, when 110 artificial 
light was used. The curves of output were of the saddle-back 
type, but, as less artificial light was used, they became flatter, 
and ran at a higher level, that is to say, the early and late hours 
of the day were comparatively more productive, even though 
the output of the midday hours was higher. " There was a 
considerable fall in the rate of production during periods of 
artificial lighting, and this drop was of the order, in magnitude, 
of 10 per cent, of the rate of output which would have been 
reached during these periods if there had been natural lighting. 
It is worth while to emphasise the* fact that this loss is not due 
to working under insufficient electric light ; " the illumination 
is stated to have been in excess of the standards proposed later. 
The greater output in the midday hours is of interest : ."It is 
probable that the slower pace under which work is performed 
under artificial light is continued unconsciously for a while in 
natural light, and acceleration only takes place gradually, also 
that fatigue, sufficiently developed to affect the rate of output, 
sets in at an earlier hour after a spell of artificial lighting than 
during a day of natural lighting." 

An American Division Committee have summarised (7) the 
advantages of good lighting as follows : 

(1) Reduction of accidents. 

(2) Greater accuracy in workmanship. 

(3) Decreased waste of material. 

(4) Increased production for the same labour cost. 

(5) Less eyestrain. 

(6) Better working and living conditions. 

(7) Greater contentment of the workmen. 

(8) Better order, cleanliness and'neatness in the plant. 

(9) Easier supervision of the men. 

VI. The Measurement of Illumination. 

The amount of illumination at any given point maybe measured 
by using a photometer, a simple form of which is shown in the 
diagram. It consists of a case containing an electric light of 
known brightness (L), which can be moved along a calibrated 
scale (H) nearer to or farther from a white surface (S 2 ) ; and an 
eyepiece of which the field of view is partly occupied by S 2 . A 



PHOTOMETER 



321 



white surface (Sj), in every way identical with S 2 is placed at the 
point where the illumination is to be measured ; and then looked 
at through the eyepiece, when its brightness is directly compared 
with that of S 2 . By moving L, the brightness of S 2 is then 
altered until it coincides with that of S 



The illumination of S 2 , 
which is now identical with that of S^ is then read off on the 





FIG. 24. Diagram of Photometer. 

scale H. The use of two surfaces Sj and S 2 , identical in every 
way, is the foundation of all photometers, because different 
materials reflect different amounts of light according to the 
nature and colour of their surface, that is to say, they have a 
different surface brightness, e.g., the surface brightness of white 
blotting paper is high, that of black cloth is low. Rough or matt 
surfaces diffuse light in all directions, but highly polished 



322 LIGHTING 

surfaces hardly diffuse light at all but reflect it according to the 
laws of reflection. 

Light is usually measured in " foot-candles " in this country, 
and on the Continent in " meter-candles." The value of a meter- 
candle is roughly ^ that of a foot-candle. " One foot-candle 
may be defined as the illumination produced by the light source 
of one standard candle at a point of a surface one foot from the 
source, and so placed that the light rays from the source strike 
the surface at right angles." If the light source be increased to 
thirty-two standard candles the illumination at the point on the 
surface becomes thirty-two foot-candles ; but if the surface be 
now removed 4 feet away, the illumination diminishes by the 

32 

square of the distance and becomes = 2 foot-candles. 

VII. Natural Lighting. 

Natural light, if adequate in amount, is always, from the 
health point of view, to be preferred to artificial illumination, 
and every effort should be made in the interest of economy as 
well as of health to ensure that work is carried on for as long as 
possible by natural light. The amount which penetrates any 
workplace depends on (i.) the structure of the factory with 
regard to the position and area of window space, the trans- 
parency of the glass, and its relation to adjacent buildings ; and 
(ii.) the amount of daylight present which varies with time of 
day and the season of the year. The relation the light reaching 
any place inside a building bears to the amount of light outside 
at any moment is known as the " daylight factor," and is usually 
expressed in the form of a percentage ; thus, " the daylight factor 
for roof-lighted buildings such as weaving sheds is of the order 
of 2 per cent.," that is to say, that only 2 per cent, of the light 
which would reach any definite spot if the roof and walls were 
removed is actually found to be reaching it. " At the centre of 
some workrooms depending entirely on lateral windows the 
factor falls as low as 0-01 per cent., which means that the light 
reaching the point in question is only ^otjiro f ^at which 
would reach it if walls and roof were removed." This daylight 
factor for any point is practically constant whether the outside 
light is considerable or meagre ; but investigations have shown 
that the amount of light it represents is too frequently sur- 
prisingly small, and that the outside light must be considerable 
to allow this factor to be adequate. Apart from temporary 
fluctuations due to the presence or absence of clouds, the amount 
of daylight varies greatly at different times of the year and at 



DAYLIGHT 



323 



different times of the day (see Fig. 25) ; indeed the vacillations 
of daylight are so rapid that care must be exercised when 
estimating the daylight factor to make the inside and outside 
observations simultaneously. An illumination of one foot- 
candle is a reasonable one to aim at for the general lighting of 
a workroom, although where fine processes are not concerned 
artificial light may not be necessary until the illumination. falls 
below 0-5 foot-candle ; a 0-2 daylight factor may be con- 
sidered low 'for a factory of modern construction. In order to 
obtain 1 foot-candle illumination with this daylight factor, the 
amount of daylight must be not less than 500 foot-candles. 
Reference to Fig. 25 shows that, approximately, this amount of 



4500 

4(1140 














JUI 


1C 














Tcnn 












/ 






N 












19 3000 










/ 










\ 










OCftf) 








t 














\ 








o 

Zynnn 








/ 




t-r 


DT 


FM 


API 


3 


\ 






































<t 
t I'iftO 






/ 






^ 






-^ 






\ 






r~ mofl 






/ 


/ 


s* 










\ 


x 


\l 










/ 


/ 






DEL 


CE1 


*B 


:R 






s 


\ 




O HID 


















"-^5, 






s 


\ 




l^ J"U 



^ 


y 




^ 


~s 










^ 


^ 




S 


^ 



50 60 7-0 80 90 IOO II-O I2-0 I-O 20 30 4-0 50 60 70 
TIME, OF DAY 

FIG. 25. Curves showing approximate variation of 
daylight from 5 a.m. to 7 p.m. on average days in 
June, September and December. 

Reproduced from Report of Departmental Committee on 
Lighting (1). 

daylight is present in June from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., in September 
(and February) from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., but in December only 
from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Taking the period of factory employ- 
ment as eight hours plus one hour for dinner, the work may start 
at 8 a.m. and cease at 5 p.m. During four months of the year, 
unless the daylight factor exceeds 0-2 per cent., 1 foot-candle of 
natural illumination is not available at the commencement and 
end of work ; and recourse must be had to artificial light, or to 
increasing the daylight factor. There are, however, on an 
average 25 foot-candles of daylight at sunrise or sunset, that is 
to say, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. in December ; and, if the daylight 
factor be increased to 2 per cent., by no means an unattainable 
standard, an illumination of at least 0-5 foot-candles may be 
obtained with natural light during working hours throughout 
the year, except for the last hour, 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. during a few 
weeks in December. 



324 LIGHTING 

Much can be done to admit more daylight into the average 
factory by attention to details inexpensive compared with the 
price of artificial light. The size of windows can be increased 
by widening them and extending them up as near the ceiling 
as possible. The height of a window, however, is, for equal 
area, more important than its width, not only because of the 
greater sky area subtended, but because of the angle of incidence 
of the light. Vertical extension is required particularly in 
converted dwelling-houses, but the windows of old factory 
buildings also are frequently quite unnecessarily small and low. 
Obstruction of light outside by other buildings may be mini- 
mised by whitewashing the walls and using reflectors ; obstruc- 
tion within can be avoided by the removal of boxes and packing 
cases thoughtlessly stored so as to block the light. Regular 
cleaning of windows is a simple expedient, but it is seldom 
adopted, and windows are frequently to be seen so opaque with 
grime that nothing less than soaking with strong acid could make 
the glass again transparent ; meanwhile, with bright sunshine 
outside, work inside is proceeding by gas flares. One reason why 
window cleaning is not carried out more often is faulty construc- 
tion of casements, which, especially in the case of extensive 
modern window lights, is such that access to the outside for 
cleaning purposes is quite impossible without ladders from below 
or ropes from above ; some factories even rely on the occasional 
visit of the local fire brigade to clean their windows. All window 
casements should be made to pivot inwards. Greater value can 
be obtained from the light which does enter through keeping 
ceilings white by frequent lime washing, which is particularly 
valuable for the sloping ceilings of saw-tooth roofs, whence much 
light is reflected on the work below, while the walls of workplaces 
and also the painted parts of machinery should be white or light 
coloured,* and preferably of a surface which can frequently be 
washed down and kept fresh. 

The American Committee consider (7) that natural illumina- 
tion calls for consideration as follows : 

(1) The light should be adequate for each employee. 

(2) The windows should be so spaced and located that daylight 

conditions are fairly uniform over the working area. 

(3) The intensities of daylight should be such that artificial 

light will be required only during those portions of the 
day when it would naturally be considered necessary. 

(4) The windows should provide a quality of daylight which 

will avoid a glare due to the sun's rays and light from 

* Some authorities advocate keeping machinery parts black in order to 
obtain contrast. 



ARTIFICIAL LIGHT . 325 

the sky shining directly into the eye, or where this 
does not prove to be the case at all parts of the day, 
window shades or other means should be available to 
make this end possible. 

(5) Ceilings and upper portions of the walls should be main- 
tained a light colour to increase the effectiveness of the 
lighting facilities from window areas. The lower 
portion of the walls should be somewhat darker in 
tone to render the lighting restful for the eye. Factory 
green .or other medium colours may be used to good 
effect. 



VIII. Artificial Lighting. 

Daylight, while it may with great advantage be far more used 
than it is to-day, must be supplemented or replaced for certain 
processes, and on dark and foggy days, by artificial light. This 
source of illumination is entirely under control, and should, 
therefore, always be adequate. Nevertheless, far too little 
attention is paid in industry to the amount of light provided ; 
the position of lights in relation to work ; the maintenance of 
the sources of light, or to modern improvements in lighting. 
The use of antiquated gas burners vitiating the air and giving 
a minimum of illumination, of broken gas mantles, of electric 
light bulbs encrusted with dust, is to be found in many factories. 
A lighting system, possibly efficient when first installed, is too 
frequently left to itself to become quite inadequate for want 
of attention. No one is detailed to look after it, large 
bills are paid for gas burned to little purpose, or for electric 
current which is carried to worn out lamps or to illuminate the 
filaments of darkened glass bulbs. Economy could often be 
effected and illumination increased by paying an attendant 
for the purpose. Artificial lighting falls under two headings 
(i.) general illumination, and (ii.) local illumination. (This 
distinction does not hold good for daylight illumination where 
local illumination is part of the general.) 

General Illumination. A standard of lighting should be 
adopted which will illuminate the whole " working area " of 
the factory sufficiently for rendering visible dirt and debris, 
and for purposes of safety, that is to say, for allowing obstacles 
and moving machinery to be plainly seen. This standard, 
when supplemented by local illumination, may reasonably be 
lower than that aimed at for minimum daylight illumination ; 
but when the general illumination serves also for the carrying 



326 LIGHTING 

on of work, at least the same minimum standard, from 0-5 to 
1-0 foot-candles, should be fixed. This standard is not difficult 
to attain if modern fittings are used, such as high-pressure gas 
or gas-filled electric lamps. The source or sources of light 
should be so placed that the illumination does not fall below 
the standard in any part of the working area, and is as far as 
possible equally distributed. By working area is understood 
" that portion of the floor occupied by, and in the immediate 
neighbourhood of, the machines, benches, plant or material, 
at which the operatives stand or sit in the execution of their 
work, and includes the gangways and alleys between and 
around such working places." The placing and shading of 
lights requires consideration, and must be so arranged that 
light does not fall on the eyes of the workers when at work or 
looking horizontally across the room. Further, if powerful 
lights, such as arc lamps, are used they must not be placed 
too low down, or dense black shadows, possible sources of 
danger, may be formed. Staircases and passage ways, not 
part of the working area, but through which persons may pass, 
should also be illuminated on a definite standard (not less than 
0-1 foot-candle), which should be carefully supervised and 
maintained. And factory yards and approaches should be so 
lighted that roads, paths, pools of water and corners can be 
easily distinguished ; the lights should be not less than 10 feet 
high in order to avoid glare, and should be surmounted by 
reflectors ; here a standard of at least 0-05 foot-candle should be 
maintained. 

General illumination, like general ventilation, should be 
entirely outside the control of the operators, and placed in the 
hands of some responsible person, otherwise what is at every 
one's fancy to use is no one's duty to maintain. " A few 
months' neglect," says Gaster, " may result in a loss of as 
much as 50 per cent, of the working illumination, and cases 
are on record where, by merely making good defects and 
cleaning lamps and appliances, the available illumination was 
doubled " (5). 

Local Illumination. Standards of illumination for special 
processes are difficult to lay down, as the light required must 
vary, not only with the process, but often with the material 
which is being dealt with ; thus more light is required for sewing 
dark cloth with dark thread than for light coloured cloth. 
Certain principles should, however, be adhered to : All light 
must be so placed as to illuminate the work rather than the 
w r orker ; localised illumination which falls on the workers' 
eyes and foreheads must be avoided ; it causes irritation from 



LOCAL ILLUMINATION 




FIG. 26 A. A Bad Example of Lighting for a Lathe. 

The shallow reflector does not sufficiently cover the filament, and much of 
the light falls in the eyes of the worker, causing glare, instead of upon the work 
where it is actually needed. Glare of this description is highly inconvenient to 
the worker and adds greatly to the fatigue of work, while the unduly shallow 
nature of the reflector means that a lamp of higher consumption has to be used 
than would be the case if the light were properly directed. The arrangement is 
detrimental in two ways : it causes eyestraiii and wastes electricity. 




FIG. 26B. A Good Example of Lighting. 

The reflector covers the lamp, and directs the light downwards on the work. 
The face of the worker is in partial shadow, and his eyes are not dazzled by the 
view of the bright filament. Owing to the concentrating action of the reflector 
the maximum effect is obtained from the lamp. It is, however, also desirable 
to ensure that the light strikes the work at the best angle, so as to avoid direct 
reflection of light off the polished surfaces into the eyes of the worker, which 
would give rise to eyestrain. 

Reproduced from British Industrial " Safety First " Association. Tech- 
nical Pamphlet No. 1. December, 1919. 



328 



LIGHTING 



light rays, and is also frequently unpleasant owing to the heat 
it radiates, while throbbing and headache, entirely preventable, 
result (see Fig. 26A). A small movable light for each worker is 
better than a more powerful light acting for several ; electric 
lights with suitable shades are especially useful for this purpose ; 
an excellent example is provided by the use at sewing machine 
work of small glow lamps placed in bell-shaped reflectors ; 
these lamps are adjusted within a few inches of the needle on 
the opposite side of the machine to the worker ; the machine 
keeps all light from reaching the worker, and the reflector keeps 
it from worrying a worker on the opposite side of the table 




FIG. 27. Localised Illumination. 
Reproduced by permission of Messrs. Wallwin & Co. 



(see Fig. 27). Individual electric glow lamps may also be 
used in a similar way in engineering works. Localised illumina- 
tion may advantageously be placed under the control of each 
operator to arrange according to his own convenience, always 
presuming that he does not thereby inconvenience his neigh- 
bours ; should a light be out of order the worker should imme- 
diately bring it to the attention of the light overseer. Lights 
should be so placed as to avoid casting extraneous shadows on 
the work. 



STANDARDS 329 



IX. Standards of Illumination. 

The Departmental Committee make (1) the following recom- 
mendations, but in considering the standards proposed it must 
be kept in mind that they are minimum standards put forward 
with a view to their adoption as legal requirements, and that 
the aim should be in every case to provide illumination well in 
excess of these standards : 

(1) There should be a statutory provision 

(a) Requiring adequate and suitable lighting in 
general terms in every part of a factory or workshop, 
and 

.(&) Giving power to the Secretary of State to make 
Orders denning adequate and suitable illumination for 
factories and workshops, or for any part thereof or for 
any processes carried on therein. 

(2) Over the " working areas " of workrooms the illumination 

measured on a horizontal plane at floor level shall be 
not less than 0-25 foot-candle, without prejudice to the 
illumination required for the work itself. 

(3) In all parts of iron foundries in which work is carried on 

or over which any person is ordinarily liable to pass, 
the illumination measured on a horizontal plane at 
floor level shall be not less than 0-4 foot-candle. 

(4) In all parts of factories and workshops (not included 

under recommendation 2) over which persons employed 
are liable to pass, the illumination measured on a hori- 
zontal plane at floor level shall be not less than 0-1 
foot-candle. 

(5) In all open places in which persons are employed during 

the period between one hour after sunset and one hour 
before sunrise, and in any dangerous parts of the 
regular road or way over a yard or other space forming 
the approach to any place of work, the illumination on 
a horizontal plane at ground level shall be not less than 
0-05 foot-candle. 

(6) There shall be power for the department to allow exemp- 

tion in individual cases. 

(7) All external windows of every workroom shall be kept 

clean, on both the inner and outer surfaces. 



330 



LIGHTING 



The Council of National Defence in the United States has 
recommended (7) the minima given in the following table : 






Foot- candles at the work. 


Ordinary 
practice. 


Mini 

mum. 


(a) Roadways and yard thoroughfares 


0-05 0-25 


0-02 


(b) Storage spaces ..... 


0-50 1-00 


0-25 


(c) Stairways, passageways, aisles 


0-75 2-00 


0-25 


(d) Rough manufacturing, such as rough 






machining, rough assembling, rough 






bench-work ..... 


2-00 4-00 


1-25 


(e) Rough manufacturing, involving closer 






discrimination of detail 


3-00 6-00 


2-00 


(/) Fine manufacturing, such as fine lathe 






work, pattern and tool making, light- 






coloured textiles . . . 


4-00 8-00 


3-00 


(g) Special cases of fine work, such as watch- 






making, engraving, drafting, dark- 






coloured textiles ..... 


10-0015-00 


5-00 


(h) Office work, such as accounting, type- 






writing, etc. ..... 


4-00 8-00 


3-00 



X. Bibliography. 

1. Report of Departmental Committee on Lighting in Factories and 
Workshops. (Cd. 8000.) 1915. The contents of this section are 
largely drawn from this Report, and paragraphs in inverted commas, 
if not otherwise indicated, are extracts from it. 

2. Op. cit., Appendix IX. 

3. Vernon. H. M. " An Investigation of the Factors Concerned in 
the Causation of Industrial Accidents." Health of Munition Workers 
Committee. Memo. No. 21. (Cd. 9046.) 1918. 

4. Collis. E. L. " Eye Injuries caused by Occupation." The 
Ophthalmoscope. 1915. 

5. Caster, Leon. " Industrial Lighting and its Relation to 
Efficiency." Journ. Roy. Soc. Arts. 1920. 

6. Ho well, W. H. Textbook of Physiology. W. B. Saunders Co. 
1917. 

7. " Code of Lighting for Factories, Mills and Other Workplaces." 
Report of Divisional Committee on Lighting, Council of National 
Defence. U.S. Public Health Reports. January 24th, 1919. 

8. Elton, P. M. " A Study of Output in Silk Weaving during the 
Winter Months." Industrial Fatigue Research Board. Report No. 9 
(Textile Series, No. 3). H.M. Stationery Office. 1920. 



CHAPTER XV 

WASHING ACCOMMODATION. SANITARY ACCOMMODATION. 
DRINKING WATER. WORKING CLOTHES. CLOAK ROOMS. 
SEATS. 

I. Washing Accommodation : Introduction ; The Need ; The Standard ; 
What to Provide : Basins and Troughs, Soap, Nail-brushes, Towels ; 
Bathing Facilities : Douche Baths, Cubicles, Cleaning, Water, Soap 
and Towels, Drying of Clothes ; Maintenance. II. Sanitary Accom- 
modation : Construction ; The Standard. III. Drinking Water : 
The Standard ; Drinking Fountains. IV. Working Clothes : 
For Women ; For Men. V. Cloak Rooms. VI. Seats : For Rest ; 
For Work. VII. Bibliography. VIII. Appendix. 

I. Washing Accommodation. 

Introduction. 

THE saying that cleanliness is next to godliness lacks in pre- 
cision through not stating which virtue should be practised 
first ; but the value of washing as a means to acquire health 
certainly dates back to the time of Naaman. Nevertheless the 
importance of washing was not fully appreciated in mediaeval 
England ; the Liber Niger,* for instance, states that the barber 
was to be in attendance every Saturday night for fear the King 
desired to cleanse his head, legs or feet. Washing utensils 
occasionally occur in lists of furniture in the houses of nobility, 
but evidence suggests that the sons of toil remained unwashen 
well into the nineteenth century. 

We get a sidelight given us in 1700 from Italy by Ramazzini (9), 
an advocate for cleanliness of the body. He wrote : " In the 
beginning of brickmakers' fevers, a bottle of sweet water would 
prove highly beneficial for washing off the nastiness adhering to 
their bodies. And the pores of the skin being relaxed and opened 
a discharge of the febrile heat would be procured ; but at present 
baths are not so much used as formerly. In ancient Rome it 
was customary for tradesmen, after the labours of the day, to 
repair to the public baths, where they at once removed the 
sordes and weariness their bodies had contracted ; for which 
reason they were less subject to diseases than our modern 
tradesmen " ; another passage runs " it would certainly be 
convenient for them to use baths, to wash off the dusty filth 
which sticks in the skin along with the sweat,- but now that 

* Liber Niger in Ordinances and Regulations for the Government of the 
Royal Household. Soc. of Antiquar., 1790. 



332 WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 

baths are in disuse, the poor workmen are deprived of that 
benefit ; for we must not think that these ancient builders of 
cities and compilers of laws, were at all that charge and magnifi- 
cence of building, not only in great cities, but even in lesser 
towns, in making public baths only to gratify the luxury and 
effeminacy of women and idle fellows, but likewise for the sake 
of tradesmen and hard workers, that they might have an oppor- 
tunity of washing off the filth of their bodies, and refreshing 
their weary limbs at a small charge " ; yet again he urges 
tradesmen to " endeavour to wipe off the matter which hinders 
perspiration, and correct the noisome smell which attends them, 
by washing and rubbing their bodies with a sponge dipped in 
hot muscadine-wine ; and, by way of precaution, upon all Holy 
days, I would advise them to wash themselves at home in sweet 
water, and walk abroad in clean linen." 

The extent to which public baths were used in the heyday of 
the Roman Empire, referred to above, may be gathered from the 
fact that the baths of Diocletian at Rome provided accommoda- 
tion for 18,000 people to bathe at the same time ; those of 
Antoninus Caracalla, which were even larger, were 1,840 feet 
long and 1,476 in breadth ; there were many others in the city ; 
and the establishment of public baths was customary throughout 
the Empire in important towns, such as Pompeii, and in distant 
provinces, such as Britain. For the most part these baths were 
erected for the people by the emperors ; and architecture was 
carried to an extreme point of magnificence in their construction ; 
a point not rivalled to-day at English and Continental Spas, 
where the accommodation is only at the disposal of the well-to- 
do. " Agrippa bequeathed his gardens and baths to the Roman 
people, and assigned particular estates for their support, that 
the people might enjoy them gratuitously." Roman baths 
generally " stood among extensive gardens and walks, and often 
were surrounded by a portico. The main building contained 
extensive halls for swimming and bathing ; others for conversa- 
tion ; others for various athletic and manly exercises ; others 
for the declamation of poets and the lectures of philosophers ; in 
a word, for every species of polite and manly amusement. These 
noble rooms were lined and paved with marble, adorned with 
the most valuable columns, paintings and statues, and furnished 
with collections of books for the sake of the studious who resorted 
to them " (13). The Romans instituted their system of baths 
in this country 1,600 years ago ; their ruins exist to-day to 
interest the antiquarians of imperial Britain. 

The following words of Mr. Handley, medical officer of 
Chipping Norton Union, although reported nearly eighty years 



INDUSTRIAL HABITS 333 

ago by Chad wick (1), still remain worthy of consideration when 
the construction of artizan dwellings is urgent and the 
provision of pit-head baths continues to be exceptional : 
" When the smallpox was prevalent in this district, I attended 
a man, woman, and five children, all lying ill with the confluent 
species of that disorder in one bedroom, and having only two 
beds amongst them. The walls of the cottage were black, the 
sheets were black, and the patients themselves were blacker 
still ; two of the children were absolutely sticking together. It 
was indeed a gloomy scene. I have relished many a biscuit and 
glass of wine in Mr. Grainger's dissecting-room when ten dead 
bodies were lying on the tables under dissection, but was entirely 
deprived of appetite during my attendance upon these cases. 
The smell on entering the apartments was exceedingly nauseous, 
and the room would not admit of free ventilation." 

Even to-day the provision of washing accommodation at 
mines and at factories is unusual ; miners, workers in foun- 
dries, smelting works, chemical and manure factories, dock 
side labourers, and indeed those employed in nearly every 
variety of manual occupation, still carry away with them the 
dust and dirt of their toil. They find themselves shunned 
by fellow passengers in trains and trams, a form of invidious 
class distinction better avoided. They arrive soiled at their 
homes, seldom provided with baths, where the housewife 
already has all she can do to keep the premises tidy and clean. 
. Small wonder then that the hygiene of the skin is neglected by 
the working class population when their employers, by neglecting 
to make provision for removing the evidences of employment, 
appear to them to pay so little heed to so obvious a requirement. 
Employers often maintain, and maintain with justice, that, when 
provided, washing accommodation is abused rather than pro- 
perly used. This very fact is in itself eloquent testimony to the 
existence of uncleanly customs, adoption of which the employers 
should never have permitted. In this matter, however, the 
conservatism of the worker can be overcome with but little 
patience. One of us recalls visiting a factory where excellent 
accommodation had recently been provided to comply with the 
requirements of Home Office Regulations applying to a dangerous 
trade. Vigorous complaints were made of torn towels, stolen 
soap and broken basins. At a revisit only six months later the 
information was elicited that the previous week there had been 
a threatened strike because the water for washing was not warm. 
At another factory where the new washing accommodation was 
on the ground floor and the canteen on the first floor, the manager 
told how at first he had himself to stand at the bottom of the 



334 WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 

stairs and turn the workers back to wash, and how he no longer 
had to do so, because if an unwashed worker went up to the 
canteen his fellows kicked him downstairs. 

The position as it exists in relation to the provision of public 
baths in the United Kingdom has been fully set forth in a recent 
valuable report (14) issued by the Carnegie Trust, while the 
social aspect of the case, with special reference to the mining 
industry, has been ably discussed by Chappell and Lovat 
Fraser (15). These authors, after pointing to the " colour-bar " 
conferred by their occupation on miners, conclude that colliery 
baths would : 

(1) Improve the health, comfort, safety and moral purity of 

the miner himself and his family. 

(2) Increase the miner's efficiency, effect economies in the 

working of the mines, and improve the conditions of 
safety. 

(3) Give greater comfort to the non-mining population who 

have to use public cars and trains and to frequent places 
where miners gather in their mining clothes. 

(4) Add to the miner's self-respect and improve his status in 

the eyes of the general public. 

The Need. 

The skin considered as an organ of the body presents a larger 
surface for the reception of, and for reacting to, impulses from* 
the outside world than any other organ. Reference has been 
made to the important part it plays in reacting to atmospheric 
conditions of temperature, humidity and movement of air. Its 
duty of acting mainly through the power of secreting sweat 
as the main heat-regulating agency of the body is perhaps its 
most important health function. But the skin also possesses 
other important duties. It acts as a protective envelope, pre- 
serving the underlying tissues from microbic invasion. It acts 
as an organ of excretion for the elimination (a) of carbon dioxide, 
especially when the sweat glands are active ; and (b) through 
the sebaceous glands, of certain fatty substances which, if allowed 
to accumulate, trap micro-organisms and tend to decompose, so 
giving rise to unpleasant odours and a liability to the formation 
of pustules and dermatitis. It acts as an organ of protopathic 
and epieritic sensibility for the appreciation of touch, heat, cold, 
and pain ; in this connection its sensitivity is of more importance 
to skilled manual workers than to any other class of the com- 
munity ; but these workers who particularly need this sensitivity 
are precisely those whose work, by exposure to dust and dirt, 



STANDARD FOR LAVATORIES 335 

interferes with its acuteness. The skin, for the adequate carry- 
ing out of these functions, must be kept clean, a matter which is 
not always fully appreciated either by the industrial population 
or by their employers. 

The Standard. 

The standard of the accommodation which must be provided 
in certain dangerous trades laid down by the Home Office is as 
follows : The washing conveniences should be under cover, and 
maintained in a cleanly state and in good repair. 

There should be either 

(a) A trough with a smooth impervious surface (fitted with 

a waste pipe without plug), and of such length as to 
allow at least 2 feet for every five persons, and 
having a constant supply of water from taps or jets 
above the trough at intervals of not more than 
2 feet ; or 

(b) At least one lavatory basin for every five persons, fitted 

with a waste pipe and plug, or placed in a trough having 
a waste pipe, and having either a constant supply of hot 
and cold water or warm water laid on, or (if constant 
supply of heated water be not reasonably practicable) 
a constant supply of cold water laid on, and a supply of 
hot water always at hand when required for use by 
persons employed. 

This standard was adopted during the war for factories where 
high explosives, such as T.N.T. were manipulated. At one of 
these factories, where great stress was laid upon personal hygiene 
and every worker had to change completely on commencing and 
leaving work, a serious explosion occurred causing several deaths 
and many injuries. Nearly every wound healed by first inten- 
tion, and there was not a single case of serious sepsis ; a result 
ascribed by the medical staff to the cleanly condition of the 
workers' skin. 

Apart from the value of washing to preserve the healthiness of 
the skin, it is particularly necessary in certain industries ; in 
those exposing the workers to contact with such poisons as lead, 
arsenic, mercury and their compounds, w r hich may be conveyed 
from unwashed hands to food and so swallowed ; in engineering 
shops where contact with cooling fluids and lubricating oils may 
cause dermatitis ; in the gutting of fish, in salt mines, and in 
gut scraping, where contact with strong brine may cause painful 
indolent ulcers and dermatitis, and in the manufacture of 
bichromate of potash, and its use in tanning, where similar 
troubles occur. 



336 WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 

What to Provide. 

In view of the hard usage which the accommodation provided 
is likely to receive, special consideration should be given to its 
design. Every effort should be made to attain strength and 
simplicity combined with economy of space. 

Basins and Troughs. Traps on the waste pipe should be 
avoided. Plugs should not be provided ; even though attached 
by chains they become lost when, as is inevitable sooner or 
later, the chains break ; then the pipe opening is stuffed up 
with anything within reach and becomes choked ; moreover, 
even when all is in order they allow opportunity for several 




FIG. 28. Washing Trough with Spray Taps. 
Reproduced by permission of Messrs. Shanks & Co., Barrhead. 

workers to use the same water. Ordinary taps readily get out of 
order and are best replaced by water sprays which are economical 
of water and give the advantage of washing in running water ; 
when work ceases an attendant can turn on the water, adjusting 
the warmth by a mixing cock, when it flows from all the sprays, 
but there is advantage in having at least one spray fitted with 
its own tap for use at any other time. When sprays are being 
installed, they should be so placed that if desired a douche for 
the head, neck, and arms, can be indulged in. When basins and 
washing troughs are placed against walls, soapsuds soil the walls 
and render cleanliness difficult. A useful form of washing trough 
is shown in the illustration. It is economical of space, saves 
plumbing, and, being placed centrally, leaves the wall space for 



SOAP 



337 



cloak-room accommodation, whether hooks or lockers. Note 
that the floor slopes towards the open drain channel, an arrange- 
ment which facilitates floor washing. 

Soap. The accessories for washing call for some consideration. 
Soap, if supplied in tablet form, is found to disappear with 
alarming rapidity, and can be more economically provided in 
the form of powder, fluid or paste. The paste form is most 
favoured, and may be placed either in an open box, or in a locked 
box with a hole in the bottom whence a supply of soap can be 
extracted by inserting a finger. A further device has also been 




FRONT VIEW 



\3IDE. 



FIG. 29. Container for Jelly Soap. 

seen in use, which is shown in figure. It consists of a glazed 
earthenware container of the shape and size of a saucer with a 
hollow base. The container is charged with soap paste and then 
fixed against a flat board. 

Nail-brushes. Nail-brushes, even though chained in position, 
are frequently removed ; this difficulty may be overcome by 
providing large brushes say 18 inches by 4 inches fixed in position 
so that they drain into the washing trough. These brushes are 
used by rubbing the nails and hands against the bristles instead 
of the more usual reverse procedure. 

Towels. Clean, dry towels must be provided ; and the best 
plan is to supply a separate towel for each person washing, just 
as is done at hotels and clubs. Sometimes, while the workers 

i.w. 22 



338 WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 

are learning good manners, in order to avoid loss of towels, 
roller towels fastened in position are provided ; in this case the 
towels should be about 15 square feet in area ; each towel should 
serve nine workers, and be renewed before the next washing 
time ; but separate towels are always to be preferred. 

Bathing Facilities. 

Baths, even though more seldom provided than washing 
accommodation, are to-day, owing to housing conditions, a real 
necessity in many industries where there is special exposure to 
heat and dust, such as in coal mining and work at hot kilns, 
furnaces and rolling mills'. 

Douche Baths. The simplest, most efficient and economical 
form is that of douche baths ; the falling water exerts a more 
refreshing and stimulating effect than is obtained by total 
immersion. This form of bath has been advocated for pit-head 
baths (2), and is already in use in some factories. Where women 
are employed, in order to avoid wetting the hair, the spray can 
be arranged to flow from a ring which is passed over the head, 
or from a nozzle attached to a flexible pipe. The following 
further details stated by the Health of Munition Workers 
Committee (3) should receive attention : 

44 Cubicles. The cubicles in which the baths are placed should 
be arranged to secure privacy. In order to reduce the time 
which each worker jspends in the cubicle it may be possible to 
arrange for the workers to dress and undress partly outside the 
cubicle, but at any rate in the case of women some provision for 
dressing, including a seat and pegs, must be provided inside the 
cubicle. Where this is done the size of the cubicle should not be 
less than 3 feet wide by 4 feet deep. The walls should ordinarily 
not be less than 6 feet high. A space should be left between the 
floor and the walls of the cubicles sufficient to permit of drainage 
and cleaning. 

44 Cleaning. The building and fittings should be so constructed 
as to facilitate the maintenance of absolute cleanliness. Square 
corners, ledges or rough inner surfaces should be avoided. Wood 
should be used only for seats, and for this purpose hard wood 
should be employed with spaces between the wood for ventilation. 
The walls and partitions (and this applies also to lavatories and 
sanitary conveniences) should always have smooth and curved 
surfaces which can be readily washed down and cannot be used 
for writing on. Enamel tiles and bricks or enamel metal sheets 
may be used for this purpose ; any initial cost thus incurred is 
soon recouped by saving in cleaning and lime-washing. 



DOUCHE BATHS 



339 



" Water. The water used should be of adequate purity and 
should not be liable to cause injury to the health of the workers 



rfi. 







FIG. 30. Douche Bath. 
Reproduced by permission of Doulton & Co., Limited- 

or to yield effluvia. It will generally be found preferable for 
the temperature of the water to be regulated by an attendant 



340 WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 

rather than for the temperature of each bath to be regulated 
separately by the worker. A temperature of about 100 F. is 
usual. A thermometer should be placed in a convenient position so 
that the attendant can readily correct variations of temperature. 

' ' Soap and Towels. A simple and economical method of 
supplying soap is to provide small tablets sufficient for one bath. 
A convenient size for towels is 25 inches by 60 inches. When 
the baths are used by a large number of workers it may be found 
convenient and economical to provide a small laundry for 
washing them. 

" Drying of Clothes. The conditions of employment which 
render the provision of baths specially important often also 
make it desirable that facilities should be available for the drying 
of clothes. If only cloakroom pegs or lockers are provided for 
the damp clothes, hot water pipes should be placed immediately 
beneath them. A preferable plan where a large amount of 
clothing has to be dried is to suspend the clothes from the roof 
of the building by a chain or string securely fastened at the 
lower end. The heat of the building produced by the hot-water 
pipes for the baths causes a good current of air in the roof, which 
satisfactorily dries the clothes and prevents any disagreeable 
odour. The interior of the building may with advantage be 
maintained at a level temperature of about 70 F. This adds 
to the comfort of the workers and effectively dries the clothes. 
Ventilation can be obtained by the provision of ventilators in 
the roof or by the use of fans." 

Maintenance. 

" The maintenance of lavatories and baths is almost as im- 
portant as their construction. This should be made the definite 
duty of an appointed officer acting under the Welfare Supervisor, 
who should keep the lavatory clean, control the supply of nail 
brushes and soap, and arrange that dry clean towels are available. 
Such an officer may also usefully be employed in attending to the 
sanitary conveniences and in supervising the cloakroom. While 
the ultimate responsibility for upkeep must rest with the em- 
ployer, it may be found, at any rate in the case of baths, that the 
workers may, with advantage, be encouraged to participate in 
the management by a special committee or otherwise. The 
question of the payment to be made for baths will also need 
careful consideration ; in some cases at any rate the workers 
may prefer to make some small payment. Where periodic baths 
are of special benefit to health and efficiency, it is found desirable 
to allow workers time for bathing within working hours." 



SANITARY ACCOMMODATION 341 

II. Sanitary Accommodation. 

Construction. Types of sanitary accommodation are dis- 
cussed in books on general hygiene ; but one or two details may 
be specially mentioned in reference to installations for industrial 
establishments. These details are shown in the illustration 
given. Construction should be simple and strong : 

(i.) White enamelled pedestals with a good sized floor-base 

are preferable. 

(ii.) Circular wooden seats, even if of the hinged lift-up type, 
are better avoided ; seat pads fixed on the rim of the 
pedestal are better ; care must, however, be taken in 
using such pads, that the opening of the pedestal is not 
too large ; for this reason pedestals previously fitted 
with a lift-up seat can seldom be fitted with seat pads, 
(iii.) Each pedestal should have its own flush tank and its 
own trap to the drain ; an automatic flush common to 
several pedestals is objectionable, while several seat 
openings over one trough, periodically flushed, is a 
stage worse, 
(iv.) Traps should be constructed so that they can be easily 

cleaned out. 

(v.) The chain to the flush tank should be strong and durable, 
(vi.) The floor upon which the pedestal is fixed should be of 

smooth impervious material to facilitate washing, 
(vii.) The walls of each cubicle should have a smooth 
enamelled surface, formed by preference of glazed 
bricks ; scribbling on the wall is thus avoided. 
The Standard. The standard adopted by order under sec- 
tion 9 of the Factory and Workshop Act, 1901, is as follows : 

" (a) Not less than one sanitary convenience shall be provided 
for every twenty-five females. 

" (b) Not less than one sanitary convenience shall be provided 
for every twenty-five men provided that 

" (i.) Where the number of males exceeds 100 and sufficient 
urinal accommodation is also provided, it shall be sufficient if 
there is one sanitary convenience for every twenty-five males 
up to the first 100 and one for every forty after. 

" (ii.) Where the number of males exceeds 500, and proper 
supervision and control is exercised by a special officer, one 
convenience for every sixty men need only be provided in 
addition to sufficient urinal accDmmodation. 

" (c) The accommodation must be arranged and maintained 
so as to be conveniently accessible at all times to all persons 
employed. 



342 



WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 




FIG. 31. Sanitary Convenience. 

Reproduced by permission of VV. B. Morrison & .Son, 
Glasgow. 



DRINKING WATER 343 

" (d) Every sanitary convenience must be kept in a cleanly 
state, sufficiently ventilated and lighted, and must not com- 
municate with any workroom except through the open air or 
through an intervening ventilated space. 

" (e) Every sanitary convenience must be under cover and so 
partitioned off as to secure privacy, and if for the use of females 
must have proper doors and fastenings. 

" (/) Where persons of both sexes are employed, the accom- 
modation for each sex shall be so placed that the interior shall 
not be visible, even when the door of a convenience is open, from 
any place where persons of the other sex have to work or pass ; 
if the convenience for one sex adjoin those for the other, the 
approaches must be separate." 

One matter, frequently neglected, is worthy of note where 
women are employed : A receptacle, of simple material such as 
cardboard, which can easily be removed and incinerated, should 
always be provided for sanitary towels ; it should be placed on a 
shelf about 5 feet from the floor. Lack of attention to this 
simple detail leads to frequent blocking of drain pipes. 

III. Drinking Water. 

Opportunities should be afforded for drinking water as needed. 
All the functions of the body, respiration, the assimilation of 
food, heat regulation through sweating, elimination of waste 
products through the kidneys or by the bowels, require water. 
If too little is drunk " staleness," to use an athletic term, and 
constipation result. Normally about two and a half pints 
should be taken daily. The position has been summed up in 
the United States (6) as follows : " Since so much body water 
is lost under conditions which provoke free perspiration, it is 
important that an ample amount of water be drunk to replenish 
the tissues thus deprived of their normal water content. Without 
this their proper functions will be hampered, and health and 
efficiency cannot be expected. The worker should be furnished 
with an abundant supply of water together with drinking 
facilities which are clean, attractive, and placed so as to be 
conveniently accessible at all times. The water should never 
be below 55 F. in temperature, as the drinking of cold water is 
likely to cause gastro-intestinal disorders. The jet sanitary 
fountain is the best drinking facility. Though under ordinary 
conditions the amount of heat lost in bringing the temperature 
of water up to that of the body is small, this amount, by judicious 
drinking, can be increased. Water should be drunk in small 
quantities and at frequent intervals, not in large quantities at 
infrequent intervals." 



344 



WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 



The Standard. An order has been made in this country under 
the powers of section 7, Police, Factories, etc. (Miscellaneous 
Provisions), Act, 1916, by which " in all factories and workshops 
in which twenty-five or more .persons are employed provision 
shall be made at suitable points, conveniently accessible at all 
times to all persons employed, for : 

" (a) An adequate supply of wholesome drinking water from 
a public main or from some other source of supply 
approved in writing by the local authority of the 
district in which the factory or workshop is situated, 
which shall be either laid on or contained in a suitable 
vessel ; 

" (b) (Except where the water is delivered in an upward jet 

from which the workers can conveniently drink) at 

least one suitable cup or drinking vessel at each point of 

supply, with facilities for rinsing it in drinking water." 

Drinking Fountains. Drinking fountains such as that shown 

in the illustration have been de- 
vised to meet these requirements. 
Care, however, should be taken 
in their construction, for inves- 
tigations have disclosed that a 
vertical jet of water may become 
infected from a case of septic 
throat or of influenza, and con- 
tinue infected, -somewhat in the 
way that a light ball placed on 
such a jet remains suspended 
in position. In one investiga- 
tion (7) 58 per cent, of cultures 
taken from drinking fountains 
during an epidemic of influenza 
were found to be contaminated. 
The remedy is simple : the jet 
should be directed from the 
nozzle at an angle of about 15, 
and be of such length that the 
lips of the drinker do not touch 
the side of the fountain. 

IV. Working Clothes. 

The rule when undertaking 

any kind of occupation is to 

FIG. 32. Drinking Fountain. 4t -, . , . ,, J , .. , , , 

dress the part, and it should 

Reproduced by permission of 
Messrs. Shanks & Co., Barrhead. be strictly observed in industrial 




OVERALLS 345 

occupation. Here, however, observance can only be effected by 
the use of suitable working clothes separate and distinct from 
ordinary wearing apparel. The provision of working clothes by 
employers is called for under certain factory regulations aimed 
at safeguarding the worker against accident or injury to health ; 
but such provision is not to-day generally the custom in industry. 
We hope that ere long it may become the rule, especially as under 
section 7 of the Police, Factories, etc. (Miscellaneous Provisions), 
Act, 1916, powers exist to require such clothing where it appears 
to be necessary for securing the welfare of the workers. Working 
clothes or overalls are required for three reasons : (i.) to enable 
personal cleanliness to be attained, (ii.) to conduce to safety, 
and (iii.) to protect other clothing. 

Personal cleanliness is important, not merely on account of 
the amour propre which goes with it, exerting a valuable psycho- 
logical effect, but for health reasons. The wearing of working 
clothes enables the worker to leave his work tidy, and is a direct 
incentive to wash before leaving. A clean skin, which, as has 
already been pointed out, is a valuable asset, carries out better 
its physiological functions of sweating and temperature regula- 
tion ; and it is better able to resist nfection and heal rapidly 
when wounded. Attire only worn during working hours can be 
supervised and kept clean ; and thus there can be avoided at 
least one form of industrial dermatitis due to dirty cuffs of 
overalls rubbing infected oil and grease into the skin of the 
forearm in engineering shops. 

The pattern of working clothes when supplied by the employer 
can be regulated, and thus loose-fitting tunics, loose neckties 
and aprons, and loose hair (among women) prolific causes of 
serious accidents can be got rid of. Mr. W. Sydney Smith, 
when dealing with this matter in relation to transmission 
machinery, recommended (4) that (i.) " every person employed 
or working in a room or place within reach of unfenced trans- 
mission machinery in motion in that room or place shall wear 
close-fitting clothing : aprons or neckties with loose ends shall 
not be worn by such persons ; (ii.) every female employed or 
working in a room or place within reach of transmission machinery 
in motion in that room or place shall have her hair fastened up, 
confined in a net, or otherwise secured." His reasons for these 
recommendations have been referred to in the chapter dealing 
with accidents. 

Workers, especially when employed at dusty or dirty processes, 
at processes entailing exposure to acids or caustic liquids, to 
wet, to excessive heat, or exposure to weather, must have their 
clothing as well as themselves protected. 



346 WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 

The wearing of working clothes has also another advantage. 
Workers generally dress in accordance with the weather ; their 
clothes are often too heavy and warm for hot and laborious 
processes. As a result they sweat unduly, which in itself throws' 
undue strain on their energies ; and when work is over they leave 
the factory for what may be a journey of half an hour or more on 
a cold day clad in damp underclothing. The chilling which 
results adds to the natural tiredness following work, predisposes 
to muscular rheumatism and reduces resistance to possible 
infection. A change room and suitable clothing to wear while 
at work are valuable means for improving health and efficiency 
and lessening lost time and sickness. 

For Women. Special attention, due to the employment of 
women during the war on many processes not previously under- 
taken by them, has been given (5) to the type of protective 
clothing which is suitable in each case for female operatives ; and 
the illustration (p. 354) shows types of costumes recommended 
for wear. Further information with regard to these costumes is 
to be found in the appendix to this chapter. 

For Men. Protective clothing for males rras received less 
attention, but all the reasons just given for the wearing of 
protective clothing apply with greatest force to male workers, 
who, to a far greater extent than women, are called upon to 
undertake arduous processes involving to an unusual degree 
exposure to heat, weather, dirt, and burning liquids ; a miner in 
a wet mine, smelters of metals, brickmakers, stonemasons, 
patent fuel workers, stokers, provide instances in point. We 
are of opinion that working clothes should be regularly worn and 
discarded on leaving work. Thus the labourer would learn the 
value to health of cleanliness while at work, would cease to 
carry home with him the grime of his toil, and would no longer 
find himself a pariah avoided by others on entering a tram, bus 
or train. A king does not always wear his crown. 

V. Cloak Rooms. 

Provision of cloak rooms, which may now be called for under 
section 7, Police, Factories, etc. (Miscellaneous Provisions), Act, 
1916, is needed for the accommodation of clothing put off during 
working hours, and for working clothes at other times. Cloak 
rooms should be placed with convenient access to the washing 
facilities. A good arrangement is for the workers to have to 
pass through the lavatory as they leave the factory in order to 
enter the cloak room where the working clothes are deposited 
and ordinary attire is resumed. A cloak room should provide 



CLOAK ROOMS 347 

(i.) separate accommodation for each worker so arranged that 
working clothes and ordinary attire are not in contact ; for this 
purpose hanging pegs should not be less than 18 inches apart ; 
(ii.) means for drying garments ; hot. water pipes at the floor 
level placed beneath the pegs or lockers are useful for this pur- 
pose ; another effective device is to suspend the damp clothing 
from a long rod or board which is then hauled up to the ceiling 
(vide supra, p. 340) ; (iii.) supervision by an attendant of the 
garments left, or control by locks, the keys of which are retained 
by the workers, in order to prevent pilfering nearly always a 
source of serious annoyance until proper etiquette is established. 

These desiderata may be obtained in several ways. The 
simplest is rows of pegs with hot-water pipes at the floor level, 
the room being kept locked except just before the commence- 
ment and at the cessation of work. Separate lockers may be 
provided for each worker, ventilation being arranged for by 
openings at the top and at the bottom above hot-water pipes. 
A third useful device is to hang the garments at one end of a 
pole which is then elevated and hung up so that the garments 
are out of reach ; a separate pole is provided for each worker ; 
the lower end of the pole is placed in a slot and locked in position, 
or a number of poles are locked in position by one lever controlled 
by the attendant. 

Cloak rooms and provision for drying clothes call for special 
consideration for miners. The subject has been well dealt with 
by Chappell and Lovat-Fraser (15) ; their book, which contains 
illustrations of several useful devices, should be consulted by 
any one constructing cloak room accommodation. 

VI. Seats. 

Seats may not at first sight appear to be intimately connected 
with health ; but they are of considerable importance, first to 
eliminate unnecessary fatigue, secondly to correct faulty posture 
at work, thirdly to minimise aching feet and any tendency to 
varicose veins and flat feet. Consideration is more likely to be 
given in the future than in the past to the provision of sitting 
accommodation, since the subject is now included in two Acts 
of Parliament, one dealing with seats for shop assistants, and 
the second section 7 of the Police, Factories, etc. (Miscellaneous 
Provisions), Act, 1916. Under the powers conferred by the second, 
an order has been made calling for the provision of seats for 
those engaged upon the turning of shells. The mere provision 
of some sort of seat, although it might technically comply with 
the letter of the law, would, however, not be in accordance with 



348 WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 

the spirit. Sitting accommodation has in the past been little 
studied, so much so, that factory seats have been likened (10) to 
coffins, as things which the maker does not need, the purchaser 
does not use, and the user has no opportunity to speak about. 

Seats may be required for two distinct purposes : (i.) for 
rest ; (ii.) for work. Many processes which entail constant 
standing provide periods during which an operative is not 
actively occupied. Some foremen object to workers being 
allowed to sit down at these periods on the ground that seats 
suggest idleness and tend to slackness ; these disciplinarians 
wish for parade ground smartness in the workshop. But let 
them remember that military preciseness required for saluting 
the colours does not represent the work-a-day procedure of 
warfare, whether in the trenches, with the guns, or on the march ; 
and that where efficiency is the objective, superficial smartness 
contributes but little to discipline and less than nothing to 
output. The Health of Munition Workers Committee in their 
final report pointed out (12) that " the object of the provision of 
seats is not to secure that all work should be done seated, since a 
sedentary life has its own disadvantages, but rather that means 
should be provided for varying the position wherever possible, 
and for occasional use when work necessitates a standing posi- 
tion." While in the same report Dr. Janet Campbell remarks : 
" The provision of seats and the use made of them unfortunately 
appears to depend too much on the caprice or prejudices of 
individual managers and foremen, who do not yet realise that, 
if suitably used, seats reduce fatigue and do not encourage habits 
of idleness and slackness." 

Seats for Rest. The processes concerned in the turning of 
shells may be instanced. Here a worker may have merely to 
watch a lathe for half an hour or more while the outside is being 
removed from the rough casting of a large shell ; or, by way of 
contrast, work at a multi-tool capstan lathe may keep the 
operative constantly and actively employed, and the only oppor- 
tunity for a pause is when the supply of material for any reason 
slackens or the tools require setting. A large rough casting can be 
watched as carefully by a worker sitting down as standing up, 
but the process of constant standing without activity is pro- 
ductive of static fatigue. The pioneer of industrial medicine, 
Ramazzini, spoke (9) of this matter in 1700 : " In general those 
who stand at work are subject chiefly to varices, or swellings in 
the veins, for the tonic motion of the muscles retards the course 
of the blood, upon which it stagnates in the veins and valves of 
the legs. . . . Hence the blood, that returns from the arteries 
into the veins, does not receive the necessary force from the 



SEATS 349 

impulse of the arteries to make it rise in a perpendicular line ; 
so that, for want of the due impulse to back it, it stops and 
produces varices in the legs." Human beings are not con- 
structed for maintaining the erect posture except during muscular 
activity ; this activity squeezes forward the blood in the veins 
and assists circulation. When it is absent the pressure of the 
blood in the veins, especially of the legs, is considerable, and the 
circulation not only of the blood but also of the lymph slows 
down ; aching feet result, and, if idle standing is insisted on over 
weeks and months, varicose veins and flat feet follow. Seats 
should be provided to obviate static fatigue. Investigation, 
moreover, has shown that at many lathe processes short periods 
of from three to four minutes frequently occur during which time 
a seat can be used with advantage ; that supplies of material 
from time to time run short; and that broken tools or other 
machinery difficulties also provide further opportunities for rest- 
ing. There is also the further case of the operative on a multi-tool 
capstan lathe who feels that a rest -pause is needed to enable him 
to maintain the pace he finds most suited to himself ; he must 
either rest or slow down to a pace at which he is less efficient. 

The turning of shells is not an isolated process in this connec- 
tion. An instance is quoted (16) where " instructions were 
given that a number of girls were to stop work, and sit down at 
five minutes to every hour, except the last hour of the day, for 
a five-minutes' rest. A few months later the figures of their 
output were carefully examined six cases were selected in 
which all variable factors could be eliminated, i.e., the girls 
chosen were employed during both periods on the same article, the 
same machine, and had been working constantly without days off. 

" In no case did their output show less than a 6-4 per cent, 
increase, and in four out of six it showed over 10-9 per cent. 
This means an increased production of, roughly, 180,950 pieces 
per annum." 

Seats should be provided for processes at which (i.) periods of 
inactivity as long as three minutes occur ; (ii.) the supply of 
material cannot be continuously guaranteed ; (iii.) machinery 
delays are inevitable ; (iv.) the operatives control the pace ; 
and (v.) where short rest-pauses are introduced. 

Seats for Work. Seats required for rest purposes in shape and 
construction call for no special thought ; but seats for work are 
entirely different and call for consideration under two headings 
seats for sedentary work, and seats for work usually done 
standing. 

Seats for sedentary wprk should be designed to fit the worker 
for the work in those cases where the reverse cannot be effected. 



350 



WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 



A simple case may be taken, that of sedentary work at a table. 
An observer may see in almost any factory a row of workers 
seated on one long bench ; the tall with bent backs almost 
sprawling over the table, the short, with their feet hardly touch- 
ing the ground, reaching up to their work. Clearly equally 
efficient work cannot be expected. The height of work benches 
and tables as well as of chairs here calls for consideration ; and 
Gilbreth points out (10) that " at almost no cost factory workers 
can have their workplaces and chairs designed or altered for their 

individual measurements, and in 
the majority of cases should have 
tables or benches made for work- 
ing at standing height, and chairs 
arranged to maintain the elbows 
the same height above the floor 
while either sitting or standing. 
This is not intended to convey 
the idea of sanction or approval 
of the too common book-keepers' 
chair, with its inhuman round top 
and its opportunity for the book- 
keeper to imitate a woodbine 
around and through its legs and 
rungs." The provision of separate 
chairs suited to each worker is not 
a difficult matter ; but the sitting 
height, that is the length of the 
body, rather than the standing 
height, should be the measure 
to go by. Seats are sometimes 
provided the heights of which 
can be adjusted, like a music 
stool (see Fig. 33) ; and we have noted in such cases that the 
heights at which the seats are adjusted are as numerous as the 
workers using them. Each seat should have a back, and the 
object should be that each worker should sit comfortably. 
The process concerned will determine the exact relation of the 
height of the table to the worker ; this may be measured with 
regard to the level of the elbow when the arm is bent and held 
by the side. In the case of short workers foot rests should be 
provided, either on the chairs or on the table. Vibration from 
machinery is often considerable in factories and adds materially 
to the onset of fatigue. Much can be done to minimise its effect 
by providing the legs of chairs with rubber soles, or even, as 
designed by Gilbreth (8), with springs. 




FIG. 33. 
Reproduced from (16). 



SEATS 351 

The arrangement and spacing of seats provided for sedentary 
work are matters equally as important as their construction, 
but for a different reason. Much lost time occurs among opera- 
tives due to the spread of infectious complaints which include 
all kinds of sore throats, influenza, phthisis, pneumonias, cerebro- 
spinal meningitis, scarlet fever, measles, diphtheria, and, most 
important of all, the " common cold." These diseases travel 
from one person to another by direct infection due to projection 
of germs into the air by an infected person or a carrier during 
acts of coughing, sneezing and speaking, to be inhaled by a neigh- 
bour. Wherever persons are brought together risk of infection 
is present ; but the risk can be lessened by spacing, that is to 
say, by keeping them a reasonable distance apart, and allowing 
for this purpose at least 4 feet for seating each person. The 
provision of separate chairs for each worker rather than a 
bench is a great help in this matter, as the temptation to crowd 
workers more closely together, and any tendency on the part of 
the workers themselves to sit close together, is thereby countered. 
Another important point is not to place workers in rows facing 
one another across a narrow table or work bench ; this plan, 
which is all too usual, provides every facility for infection. A 
table on the opposite sides of which workers are to sit should be 
at least 4 feet wide. 

There remains yet the third group chairs for use at processes 
which are usually carried on standing. Greater thought and 
ingenuity is required in devising this group of chairs ; but the 
trouble taken will be fully repaid in improved output. When 
attention is directed to the matter, but few processes which 
entail the operative standing for long periods in one position will 
be found for which a chair cannot be devised. The height of the 
chair should be such that a bent elbow will be at what has been 
found to be the best level in relation to the work, whether that 
work be at a lathe, a power press, or a vice. Foot rests and 
backs should form parts of such chairs ; for, as Spaeth writes (11) : 
" A moment's consideration will make it clear that the higher 
we get from the floor the more attention and energy we have to 
give to maintaining our balance. In the case of a high stool 
without back and arms the waste of energy becomes considerable. 
The types of defence reactions .that are developed by workers 
who are forced to sit on high stools are most interesting. Some 
hook their feet about the table or stool legs ; others arrange 
temporary foot-rests under the tables, using boxes or discarded 
chairs ; still others wedge themselves tightly between the stool 
and table tops. A practical solution of this problem is either to 
scrap the old stools and install a simple type of saddle-seated 



352 



WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 




FIG. 34. Swinging Seat for Press Operatois. It swings under the press 

out of the sweeper's way and when not in use. 

Reproduced from Factory, the Magazine of Management, by . 

permission of A. W. Shaw Co. , Ltd. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 353 

stool with a back and foot-rest, or to convert the old stools into 
reasonably comfortable seats by screwing a broad seat and low 
back on to the old stool top." Workeis often prefer to work 
part-time sitting and part-time standing, and there is advantage 
in this preference ; therefore, the chairs should be capable of 
being easily pushed on one side when not required (see Fig. 34). 

Chairs intended for factory use should be well built in order to 
stand the wear and tear. Appearance should not be so much 
studied as suitability. 

VII. Bibliography. 

1. Report of Poor Law Commissioners into the Sanitary Condition 
of the Labouring Population of Great Britain, pp. 253-4. 1842. 

2. Report of Departmental Committee on Washing and Drying 
Accommodation at Mines. (Cd. 6724.) 1913. 

3. " Washing Facilities and Baths." Health of Munition Workers 
Committee. Memo. No. 14. (Cd. 8387.) 1916. 

4. Smith, W. Sydney. Fencing and Safety Precautions for Trans- 
mission Machinery. H.M. Stationery Office. 1913. 

5. Protective Clothing for Women and Girl Workers-. H.M. Stationery 
Office. 1917. 

6. United States Public Health Service. Report No. 50, Vol. 
XXXII. Washington Government Printing Office. December 14th, 
1917. 

7. Petti bone, Borgorl and Clark. Journal Bacteriology, Vol. I., 
p. 471. 1916. 

8. Gilbreth, F. B. and L. M. Fatigue Study. Geo. Routledge & 
Sons. 1916. 

9. Ramazzini, B. The Diseases of Tradesmen. Translated by 
Dr. James. 2nd Edition. 1746. 

10. Gilbreth, F. B. and L. M. " Unnecessary Fatigue." Journal 
Industrial Hygiene, Vol. I. March, 1920. 

11. Spaeth, R. A. " The Prevention of Fatigue." Journal 
Industrial Hygiene, Vol. I. January, 1920. 

12. Final Report, Health of Munition Workers Committee. (Cd. 
9065.) 1918. 

13. Pompeii. The Library of Entertaining Knowledge, Vol. I. 
Charles Knight. 1833. 

14. Report on Public Baths and Washhouses in the United Kingdom. 
Carnegie U.K. Trust. 1918. 

15. Chappell, E. L., and Lovat-Fraser, G. A. Pit Head and Factory 
Baths. Welsh Housing and Development Association, Cardiff, 1920. 

16. Seats for Workers in Factories and Workshops. H.M. Stationery 
Office. 1920. 

VIII. Appendix. 

Reproduced from (5). 

PART I. 

There are two main types of protective clothing in general use : 
The overall suit Type A. 
The trouser or knicker suit with tunic Type B. 



854 WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 

One or other of these types will as a rule be suitable wherever the 
work is dusty or dirty, or where women are employed on or near 
machinery not of a specially dangerous character. 

Special types will be required in cases where there is exposure to 
acids or alkalis (Type C) ; excessive wet (Type D) ; machinery 
involving special risk (Type E) ; excessive heat (Type F) ; or where 
the employment is in the open air (Type G). 

The full descriptions of the several types are as follows : 

Type A. Overall dress and cap ; also apron in some cases. 

No outside pockets sleeves to fasten closely at wrists. 
Type B. Trouser or knicker suit with close-fitting coat or tunic, 

and leggings. No outside pockets. 




D D G F B C C E A 

(without apron) (without apron) 

FIG. 35. Group showing Various Types of Protective Clothing. 
Reproduced from (5). 

Type C. Overall dress or trouser suit of woollen material 
(baize, etc.) ; cap ; leather apron (with bib) ; and high- 
topped waterproof boots or leather or flannel leggings, or 
puttees covering the open tops and lace-holes of clogs or 
boots. Gloves, in some cases, of rubber. Goggles where 
there is risk of splashing. 

Type D. Overall dress or trouser suit ; cap ; apron (with bib) 
of waterproof material such as rubber, oilskin, mackintosh, 
pegamoid or leather ; and high-topped waterproof boots, or 
leggings or puttees covering the open tops and lace-holes of 
boots, or clogs. 

Type E. Boiler suits ; cap. No outside pockets sleeves to 
fasten closely at wrists. 

Type F. Thin overall dress or trouser suit ; cap. The material 
may be cotton, drill, or jean, etc., or linen, of thickness 
according to need. 

Type G. Weatherproof coat or trouser suit and clogs ; water- 
proof cap (" sou'wester "). 



OVERALLS 
PART II. 



355 



Process. 


Nature of risk. 


Type of clothing 
recommended. 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


1. Aeroplane works. 
Doping .... 


Varnish 


A, with apron. 


2. Boot and shoe making. 






Skiving, buffing and trim- 


Dust . 


A'. 


ming. 






3. Brick works. 


(1) Dust and dirt 


A. 




(2) Exposure to 


G. 




weather. 




4. Cement work's . 


Dust . 


A or B. 


5. Chemical processes, 
(a) Acids 


(1) Acid burns 


C. 




(2) Wet . 


'D. 


(6) Alkali 


Caustic burns 


C. 


(c) Ammonium nitrate 


Wet (deliquescence 


D. 




of salt). 




(d) Chlorate . 


Burns 


A or B. Fireproof ed 






material, washed 






daily. 


(e) Phenol 


Burns 


D, with gloves and 






goggles where 






there is risk of 






splashing. 


(/) Bleaching powder 


Burns 


C. 


6. Engine house . 


Danger from 


E. 




machinery. 




1. Fellmongering, tanning and 






currying. 






(a) Lime and tan pits 


Wet . . 


D. 


(6) Dry processes 
(c) Oiling skins 


Dust . . 
Oil . . 


A. 

D 


8. Food production, 
(a) Aerated water bottling 


Wet . 


D. 


and beer bottling. 
(6) Bacon curing 


Wet . . 


D, with clogs. 


(c) Bread baking. 


Dust . 


A. 


(d) Brewing 
(1) Fermenting (clean- 


Heat . 
(1) Ladder climb- 


F. 
B. 


ing vessels). 


ing. 




(2) Barrel washing 


(2) Wet 


D. 


(e) Confectionery (starch 


Dust . 


A. 


room). 






(/) Cocoa grinding . 
(g) Milk drying 
(h) Fish curing 


Dust . 
Heat . 
Wet and salt 


A. 

F. 

D, with -long sea 
boots and sou'- 




wester cap. 



356 



WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 



Process. 


Nature of risk. 


Type of clothing 
recommended. 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


8. Food production continued. 






(i) Flour milling 


(1) Ladder climb- 


B or E. 




ing and oiling 






machinery. 






(2) Dust . 


A. 


(j) Gut scraping and pre- 


Wet and offensive 


D. 


paration of sausage 


material. 




skins. 






(k) Ham boiling 


Wet . 


D, with clogs. 


(I) Jam making (boiling 
house). 


(1) Wet 
(2) Stickiness 


D. 
B. 


(m) Malting: 






(a) Steeping 
(b) Spreading on floors 


Wet . . . 

Damp and active 


D. 
B. 




work. 




(n) Pickle making . 


Wet and vinegar . 


D. 


(o) Sugar refining 


(1) Great heat . 
(2) Stickiness 


F. 
B. 




(3) Wet 


D. 


(p) Tea packing 
(q) Tripe dressing 


Dust . . . 
Wet and offensive 


A. 

D. 




material. 




9. Gas works. 






(a) General 


(1) Heat . 


F. 




(2) Fine dust 


A or B (G if in open 






air). 


(b) Coke washing . * 


Wet . 


D, with clogs. 


(c) General labouring 


Wet weather, out- 


G. 




door. 




10. Glass works. 






(a) Grinding and polishing 


Wet . 


D. 


(b) Handling and carrying 


Sharp edges (cuts) 


A (stout leather 






apron and palm 
shields, clogs or 






strong boots). 


(c) Washing . 
(d) Mixing 


Wet . 
Dust . 


D. 
A and B. 


(e) Packing 


Dust (straw, etc.) 


A. 


11. Hair. 






.(a) Sorting . 


Dust : 


A. 


\b) Washing and drying . 


Wet and dirt 


D. 


(c) Packing 


Dust . 


A. 


12. Kapok, feather and down 






stuffing. 






Hand processes 


Dust . 


A. Veil to protect 


i 




eyes, nose and 






mouth. 


13. Labouring. 






(a) Outdoor 


Exposure to 


G. 




weather. 




(b) Indoor 


Active and heavy 


B. 




work. 





OVERALLS 



357 



Process. 
(1) 



Nature of risk. 
(2) 



Type of clothing 

recommended. 

(3) 



14. Laundry work and job dye- 
ing. 

(a) Wash-house 

(b) Dye-house. 

(c) Dry cleaning 



Wet . 
Wet . 
Burn, benzene 



D. 
D. 

A. Fireproofed 

material. 



15. Linoleum, 
(a) Stoves 

(6) Whiting department 
(c) Cork department 



Heat and ladder 

climbing. 
Dust and heavy 

work. 
Dust . 



B, of thin material. 

B. 

A. 



16. Metal processes. 

(a) Acetylene welding 



(b) Aluminium (manufac- 
ture or use). 

(c) Battery house (cleaning 
and preparing accumu- 
lators). 

(d) Crane driving 



(e) Electric welding. 



(/) Electro plating 
(g) Engineering 



(h) Forges and foundries 



(i) Galvanising 

(j) Grinding and turning . 



(k) Moulding and core 
making ; cleaning. 



Burns 



Fine dust . 
Acid . 

(1) Ladder climb- 
ing. 

(2) Mill gearing . 
Burns 



Wet . 

(1) Dirt and dust, 
oil. 

(2) Wet and oil . 

(3) Revolving or 
projecting 
machinery 
parts. 

Burns 



(1) Acid . 

(2) Wet 

Wet and metal 
particles. 

(1) Dust . 

(2) Particles of 
metal or scale. 



Drill overall dress, 
leather or asbes- 
tos cloth apron, 
tinted' glass 
goggles and 
gauntlets. 

B or A. 



E or B, with cap. 

E or B, with cap. 

Drill overall dress, 
leather or asbes- 
tos cloth apron, 
leather gloves, 
goggles, and 
screen. 

D. 

D or A, with imper- 
vious apron. 

D. 

A or B. 



Trouser suit, boots 
without lace- 
holes or with 
special tongues, 
and leather 
leggings to knee ; 
cap. 

C. 

D. 

D, with goggles in 
some cases. 

A or B. 

A, with leather 
gloves and clogs. 
Goggles in some 



358 



WASHING ACCOMMODATION, ETC. 



Process. 
(1) 


Nature of risk. 
(2) 


Type of clothing 
recommended. 
(3) 


16. Metal processes continued. 
(I) Pickling 

(m) Tinning . 

(n) Shipyard processes 
(general). 

(o) Painting 


(1) Acid . 
(2) Wet 
(1) Acid 
(2) Wet 
(1) Exposure to 
weather. 
(2) Climbing 
Climbing 


C. 
D. 
C. 
D. 
G. 

B or E. 
B or E. 


17. Millgearing. 
Work on or about . 


Danger from 
machinery and 
climbing. 


E. 


18. Oil seed crushing. 
General .... 


(1) Great heat . 
(2) Oil and dirt . 


F. 
D. 


19. Paint and colours 


(1) Dirt (paint) . 
(2) Climbing 


A, with apron. 
B, with apron. 


20. Paper making, 
(a) Pulp trucking 
(b) Machine work 


Wet . 
Danger from pro- 
jecting or 
revolving 
machinery 
parts. 


D. 
E or B. 


21. Paper and rag sorting. 
Sorting and grinding 


Dust . 


A. 


22. Potteries, 
(a) Dry processes 
(b) Wet processes . 


Dust . 
Wet . 


A. 
D. 


23. Rabbit skins or hatters' 
furriers, 
(a) Sorting 

(b) Pulling 
(c) Drying 

(d) Carrotting. 
(e) Cutting and other 
machine work. 


Dust and offensive 
material. 
Dust and offensive 
material. 
Dust and offensive 
material. 
Wet Acid . 
Dust . 


A. 
A. 

A and F. 

D. 
A. 


24. Rope or twine making 


(1) Dust . 
(2) Danger from 
machinery. 


A. 
B. 



OVERALLS 



359 



Process. 

(1) 


Nature of risk. 

(2) 


Type of clothing 
recommended. 
(3) 


25. Rubber work?. 
General . 


(1) Danger from 
projecting or 
revolving 
machinery. 
(2) Heat . 
(3) Wet 


B. 

F. 
D. 


26. Sand blasting, 
(a) Inside chamber . 

(6) Outside chamber 


Dust and grit 
Injury to hands . 


B or E, with helmet 
and breathing 
tube. 
Gloves. 


27. Saw-milling and wood- 
working, 
(a) General 

(6) Fire-lighter making 


(1) Dust . 
(2) Climbing 
(3) Danger from 
machinery. 
Burns, naphthaline 


A. 

E or B, with cap. 
B or E, with cap. 

C. Fireproof apron. 


28. Slag wool. 


Dust . 


A, with veil. 


29. Soap making, 
(a) Boiling 
(6) Cask filling. 
(c) Dry soap packing 


Dirt . 
Dirt . 
Dust . 


B, with clogs. 
B, with clogs. 
A. 


30. Stoking .... 


Heat and dirt 


B or F. 


31. Textile and allied processes, 
(a) Cotton doubling (wet). 

(6) Flax spinning 

(c) Jute spinning 
(d) Wool washing and 
finishing. 
(e) Bleaching . 
(/) Dyeing 
(g) Chrome dyeing . 

(h) Brattice cloth preparing 


Wet (or heat) 
Wet . 

Dust . 
Wet . 

Wet . 
Wet . 
( 1 ) Wet and chrome 
ulceration. 

Wet . 


Waterproof apron 
with bib. 
Waterproof apron 
with bib. 
A. 
D. 

D. 
D. 
D, with rubber 
gloves where 
hands are im- 
mersed in chrome 
solutions. 
D or F. 



PART IV 



CHAPTER XVI 

LABOUR TURNOVER OR INDUSTRIAL WASTAGE 

I. Introduction. II. Effect of Labour Turnover. III. Methods of Inves- 
tigating Industrial Wastage. IV. The Value of Investigation. 
V. Prevention of Industrial Wastage : Selection of Workers ; 
Care of the Employed. VI. Bibliography. 

I. Introduction. . 

THE supply of labour in the past has for the most part been 
adequate to meet the demand ; but during and since the war the 
condition has altered, labour is both less plentiful and more 
costly. Employers are coming to realise how workers have been 
accustomed to drift from factory to factory or from mine to 
mine ; but even yet they hardly appreciate the magnitude of 
this drift or labour turnover, the economic loss of this industrial 
wastage. Astonishment is often expressed at the discovery that 
a turnover of 100 per cent, per annum is quite ordinary, which 
means that to maintain a personnel of 1,000 workers, 1,000 new 
workers require to be engaged every year, and that a turnover 
of 400 per cent, is only somewhat unusual. 

The industrial hygienist, while regretting the loss of efficiency 
and wasteful expenditure of wealth thus caused, looks at the 
subject from a different angle ; to him a high rate of leaving 
at any industrial concern suggests the existence of conditions 
ill-suited to the human machine ; for him labour turnover 
represents industrial " deaths " (even though the individual 
concerned may and usually does come again into industrial life 
at another factory) and plays the part taken by mortality in 
vital statistics ; while, when excessive in early weeks of employ- 
ment, industrial wastage has the same importance to industry 
that infantile mortality has to the general community. Such 
premature labour turnover is as much an indication that some- 
thing is wrong with industry, as a high infantile mortality is of 
something wrong with social life. 

Certain investigations have been made into the subject in 
America. Thus Mr. Willits (1) after examining data for the 
period 1907 15, referring to a particular shop in a carpet mill, 



LABOUR WASTAGE 



361 



found that 48 per cent, of the men and 38 per cent, of the women 
remained in the service of the firm less than ten weeks. Mr. 
Alexander (2) conducted another inquiry on a larger scale ; the 
figures he collected showed there were in the establish- 
ments investigated 38,668 persons employed on January 1st, 
1912, a number which rose to 46,796 by December 31st, an 
increase of 8,128. He found that in order to effect this increase 
no less than 44,365 persons were engaged, which meant that 
36,237 had dropped out of employment during the twelve 
months. That is to say, five and a half times as many people 
had to be engaged as constituted the increase in the number 
employed at the end of the period. 

An investigation conducted (3) in relation to munition workers 
in this country provided for one old-established firm the following 
data : 









Number 


Number 


Number 


Month. 


Number 
employed. 


Number 
started. 


left for 
various 


left 
without 


employed 
at end of 








reasons. 


reason. 


month. 


June 


4,340 


622 


138 


253 


4,571 


July . 


4,571 


695 


48 


87 


5,131 


August . 


5,131 


464 


67 


220 


5,308 


September 


5,308 


578 


174 


45 


5,667 


October 


5,667 


1,054 


236 


248 


6,237 



Hence at this factory during the five months 3,413 women 
were engaged ; if no workers had left the total number employed 
would have reached (4,340 -f 3,413 =) 7,753 ; but in fact, by 
the end of October, the personnel totalled 6,237 ; so that 1,516 
had left, a number representing 44-4 per cent, of the number 
engaged. The data of Table 7 show that this state of affairs is 
not peculiar to war time. The cause of leaving was only 
known with regard to 663, or 43-7 per cent. ; the balance had 
simply vanished (4). 

Professor F. S. Lee of the Public Health Service of America 
quotes (5) an instance where out of 10,434 employees who left, 
9,442, more than 90 per cent., left for reasons unknown to the 
company, and remarks that this experience is probably not 
exceptional. 

Data from another factory (L. 7 in Table 8) showed that 
during the twelve months ending August 28th, 1916, an increase 
of 624 workers resulted from 1,031 new engagements amongst 
men, while an increase of 914 was obtained from 1,527 new 



362 LABOUR TURNOVER OR INDUSTRIAL WASTAGE 

engagements amongst women percentages of 165 and 167 
respectively figures which compare favourably with those 
previously quoted. 

Further information has recently been published in 
America (10) concerning labour turnover in two well-organised 
engineering factories mainly concerned with male labour. The 
first, which was employed on an eight-hour day and possessed 
good welfare conditions comparable to those, referred to later, 
of factory L. 7, experienced a similarly low labour turnover of 
30 per cent. ; the second was employed on a ten-hour day, 
" with long hours of labour and low wages, averaging, even in 
1918, piece rates of $3.2 per day for men, and $2.8 for women. 
It is not surprising to find the turnover at this plant nearly six 
times as high as at the eight-hour plant, that is, 176 per cent." 
At this second factory the welfare conditions compared unfavour- 
ably with those of the eight-hour plant. 

n. Effect of Labour Turnover. 

We point in Chapter XVII. to the cost to industry of labour 
turnover, but should remark the estimate there quoted, 35 
dollars per person, is comparatively low. Alexander estimates 
it at 53-9 dollars for each new employee, while, other American 
estimates vary from 10 dollars to two hundred. These estimates 
presumably include among other things spoilt material and loss 
in quantity and quality of output due to lack of skill in the new 
worker, which even for the simplest process does not disappear in 
less than three months. 

The relation between fatigue and industrial wastage is referred 
to in Chapter V. There are also other ways in which an in- 
dustrial concern is affected by an influx of new workers. For 
instance, evidence shows that such workers are more liable to 
sustain injuries than workers of long experience, and they also 
lose more time for sickness (see Chapter VIII. ). W r ith regard to 
the latter point, investigations show that the percentage of the 
time lost among a group of workers who leave at the end of three 
months' service rises rapidly during the last fortnight of service, 
a rise which is not found at that period among those remaining 
in employment, and that the same thing is also found if the 
period of service be taken at six months, or nine months ; in 
other words, the unrest which culminates in cessation of employ- 
ment or industrial " death," definitely expresses itself in an 
increase of sickness. 

The cost to the worker is certainly not less than that to the 
employer ; he may remain out of work for a time, so suffering 



METHODS OF INVESTIGATION' 363 

loss of wages ; at new work he takes time in coming to his full 
output, meanwhile he is earning less ; if he sustains an accident 
or falls sick, as he is more prone to do in early weeks at new 
work, his financial loss is serious. 

The following rough estimate may convey some idea of the 
cost incurred to-day. There are some eight million workers in 
our factories and workshops. Take labour turnover at 100 per 
cent., and the cost to employers of replacement at the low figure 
of 2 per head. We arrive at a total of 16,000,000. The cost 
to the workers is not less than an equal amount. Hence, in 
factories and workshops alone, without considering mines, 
railways, transport, shipping, shop assistants, agriculture, or 
clerks, industry bears an annual burden of over 30,000,000 
due to labour turnover. 

The study of industrial wastage is, then, clearly of importance 
to the economics of labour. It is also important to the applica- 
tion of preventive surgery and medicine to the health of the 
worker. Our next purpose is to discuss how industrial wastage 
may be calculated. 

III. Methods of Investigating Industrial Wastage. 

If we wish to appraise the value of modifications of the routine 
of industrial life, we should have some method of standardisation 
comparable in form to the " corrected " death and morbidity 
rates of vital statistics by. means of which one factory can be 
tested against another, or* one year contrasted with another in 
the' experience of the same factory. To measure the con- 
sequences of recruiting labour from different social classes, 
age groups or geographical districts, sometimes even to 
judge the effect of hygienic reforms, we need a statistical 
method. 

An attempt has been made to furnish a common measure by 
treating the employment statistics much as the actuary of an 
insurance company handles its policies. 

The method is simple enough. Provided we know the date of 
engagement and the date of leaving of all einployees in a factory 
or industry who passed through such factory or industry over 
an assigned period, we may proceed as follows. The probability 
that an employee will leave in his first month (week, fortnight or 
whatever time unit we please) of service will be the ratio of the 
numbers actually leaving in the first month of service to the 
total number of entrants less the number still at work, but only 
having been at work less than half a month (since these have not 
had on the average a month's " exposure " to the " risk " of 



364 LABOUR TURNOVER OR INDUSTRIAL WASTAGE 

leaving). The chance of leaving in the second month will 
similarly be the ratio of the numbers leaving in that month to 
the entrants less the losses of the first month, the number of 
those employed less than half a month and the number of those 
employed less than one and a half months. Following out this 
process we can compute the probabilities of leaving in the first, 
second, third, etc., month of service. 

To illustrate the nature and calculation of a wastage table we 
will take an imaginary example. Let us suppose that during 
the first six months of a year 700 boys had been engaged and 
that their cards were sorted out immediately on the expiration 
of the six months, it being found that 500 of the boys were still 
at work and that 200 had left, these totals being distributed as 
shown in Tables A and B. Then, in order to calculate the 
proportions leaving in each month of service, we proceed as set 
out in Table C. Obviously all the boys might have left in the 
first month of service, since they all either did so leave or re- 
mained at work for at least one month. Hence the chance of 
leaving in the first month is simply the number actually leaving 
divided by the total of the two tables. For the second month, 
those who left in the first month and those still at work, but only 
having been at work one month when the record was made, 
evidently had no chance of leaving in the second month and must 
be deducted from the first month's total to reach the number 
exposed to risk for the second month, and similarly for each 
subsequent month. 

t . 

AFTER-HISTORIES OF BOYS ENGAGED BETWEEN JANUARY IST 
AND JUNE 30TH. 

Record taken on July 1st. 
TABLE A. Boys still Employed. 

Length of service. Number. 

1 month ... 50 

2 100 



. 150 

. 125 

65 

10 

Total 500 



A boy who has been at work more than two but less than six 
weeks is entered as having worked one month ; more than six 
but less than ten, two months, and so on. 



METHODS OF INVESTIGATION 



865 



TABLE R.Boys Left. 



Left in 
1st month 
2nd 
3rd 
4th 
5th 
6th 



Number. 

. 100 
50 
20 
15 
10 
5 



Total 



200 



TABLE C. Wastage. 



Exposed to 
risk of 
leaving in 


Number. 


Actually 
left. 


Per cent. Wastage. 


1 st month 


7OO 


100 


100x100 


9nH 


'T'nn inn fn ^n 


Kf\ 


700 
100X50 


q rr l 


%%c\ ^n inn /ion 


on 


550 
100X20 _ 


4,th 


/too 20 1 10 2**o 


1 1 


400 
100X15 _ ^ 


*ui ,, 
5th . 
6th 


230-15-125= 90 
on 10 ft** 11 


10 

K 


230 

100x10 _ lia 

90 
100 X 5 3 


7th . 


None exposed. 




15 



Such a wastage analysis places the factory in possession of 
much accurate information. It is usually found in the case of 
adults that the wastage of the first month is the heaviest much 
as the death rate is heaviest in the first year of life, and for much 
the same reason but if it appears that this " infantile mor- 
tality " is much heavier in one shop than in another, or for one 
year than for the previous year, then the inference may be 
drawn that the method of selecting candidates for employment 
needs revision. It may also be found that the rate of wastage 
shows a sudden increase after two or three months' service, 
indicating the effects of, perhaps, unsuitable hours and suggest- 
ing the need of inquiry. The method can be applied to persons 
of particular ages, tables of wastage among entrants from 
fourteen to fifteen years of age and of older persons being sepa- 
rately compiled and compared. It is also easy to calculate from 
the rates what percentage of 100 persons engaged will still be at 



366 LABOUR TURNOVER OR INDUSTRIAL WASTAGE 



work iii the factory after any desired number of months. Tims, 
taking the example given, the percentage of persons still at work 
three months from engagement will be : 100 X -857 X '909 X 
950 = 74, or 26 per cent, leave within three months of entry (6). 
If, in addition to the simple particulars of engagement and 
withdrawal, we have information as to sex, age, reason for 
withdrawal, etc., we may make minuter subdivisions. 

TABLE 1. All Factories. Combined Ages. 







Numbers left. 


Percentages. 


Months 
of 


Exposed. 




Other 


No 






Other 


No 




service. 




Ill- 


suffi- 


suffi- 




Ill- 


suffi- 


suffi- 








health. 


cient 


cient 


Total. 


health. 


cient 


cient 


Total. 








reason. 


reason. 






reason. 


reason. 







36,736 


407 


633 


1,632 


2,672 


1-108 


1-723 


4-443 


7-274 


1 


30,736 


318 


449 


1,065 


1,832 


1-035 


1-461 


3-465 


5-960 


2 


26,382 


216 


387 


975 


1,578 


819 


1-467 


3-696 


5-982 


3 


22,254 


176l 


308 


803 


1,287 


791 


1-384 


3-608 


5-783 


4 


17,995 


150 


220 


599 


969 


834 


1-223 


3-329 


5-385 


5 


14,469 


126 


200 


451 


111 


871 


1-382 


3-117 


5-370 


6 


11,798 


88 


135 


368 


591 


746 


1-144 


3-119 


5-009 


7 


9,710 


43 


104 


261 


408 


443 


1-071 


2-688 


4-202 


8 


7,856 


33 


63 


179 


275 


420 


802 


2-279 


3-501 


' 9 


6,091 


40 


49 


125 


214 


657 


804 


2-052 


3-613 


10 


4,863 


19 


30 


83 


132 


581 


917 


2-537 


4-034 


11 


3,309 


15 


22 


53 


90 


453 


665 


1-602 


2-720 


12 


1,956 


6 


8 


24 


38 


307 


409 


1-227 


1-943 


13 


1,685 


4 


8 


11 


23 


237 


475 


653 


1-365 


14 


,475 





6 


11 


17 





407 


746 


1-153 


15 


1,325 


3 


6 


11 


20 


226 


453 


830 


1-509 


16 


,123 





6 


JO 


16 





534 


890 


1-425 


17 


,011 


1 


3 


2 


6 


099 


297 


198 


593 


18 


890 


2 


6 


9 


17 


224 


674 


1-011 


1-910 


19 


788 


1 


3 


6 


10 


127 


381 


761 


1-269 


20 


668 


1 


I 


3 


6 


150 


150 


449 


749 


21 


531 





4 


5 


9 





753 


941 


1-695 


22 


402 


1 


1 


8 


10 


249 


249 


1-990 


2-488 


23 


344 


. 


2 


3 


5 





581 


871 


1-453 


24 


292 


1 


3 





4 


342 


1-027 





1-370 


Totals 


204,689 


1,651 


2,657 


6,697 


11,005 


807 


1-298 


3-266 


6-376 



This method was applied upon a large scale to women employed 
in English munitions factories during the war, and Tables 1 5 
summarise the results (7). Table 6 contrasts the experiences of 
two factories engaged upon similar work, one of which (L. 7) 
possessed a highly organised welfare system while the other did 
not. The columns headed L. 7 record the numbers actually lost 
in each month of service (0 means the first month, 1 the second, 
etc.) by L. 7, the column headed L. 1 gives the number which 
would have been lost had the wastage rates prevailing in L. 1 



RESULTS OF INVESTIGATIONS 



367 



applied to L. 7. Table 7 contrasts the experiences of L. 1 (an 
old-established firm of high standing 1 ) before and during the war. 
In this table the form of the statistics has been assimilated to 
that of a life table, and it should be read as follows : Of 1,000 
entrants aged eighteen to twenty-two, 928 will still be at work 
after -one month from entry (peace time experience), 848 after 
two months, and only 668 will " survive " six months' labour. 



TABLE 2. All Factories. Ages 13 17. 







Numbers left. 


Percentages. 


Months 
of 


Exposed. 




Other 


No 






Other 


No 




service. 




Ill- 


suffi- 


suffi- 




Ill- 


suffi- 


suffi- 








health. 


cient 


cient 


Total. 


health. 


cient 


cient 


Total. 








reason. 


reason. 






reason. 


reason. 







2,937 


17 


26 


155 


198 


579 


885 


5-277 


6-742 


1 


2.515 


8 


23 


91 


122 


318 


915 


3-618 


4-851 


2 


2,237 


6 


23 


76 


105 


268 


1-028 


3-397 


4-694 


3 


1,936 


12 


19 


68 


99 


620 


981 


3-512 


5-114 


4 


1,666 


6 


19 


52 


77 


360 


1-140 


3-121 


4-622 


5 


1,466 


8 


10 


38 


56 


546 


682 


2-592 


3-820 


6 


1,251 


4 


5 


31 


40 


320 


400 


2-478 


3-198 


7 


1,090 


2 


7 


14 


23 


183 


642 


1-284 


2-110 


8 


989 


1 


2 


13 


16 


101 


202 


1-314 


1-618 


9 


900 


5- 


5 


19 


29 


556 


556 


2-111 


3-223 


10 


800 


1 


2 


5 


8 


125 


250 


625 


1-000 


11 


735 





4 


4 


8 





544 


544 


1-088 


12 


663 


. 


2 


3 


5 


__ 


302 


452 


754 


13 


614 


1 


3 


7 


11 


163 


489 


1-140 


1-792 


14 


537 


. 


1 


9 


10 





186 


1-676 


1-862 


15 


473 


. 


2 


4 


6 





423 


846 


1-268 


16 


402 


. 


3 


4 


7 





746 


995 


1-741 


17 


. 360 


1 


2 


1 


4 


278 


556 


278 


1-112 


18 


304 


1 





2 


3 


329 


. 


657 


987 


19 


270 





. 


3 


3 





. 


741 


741 


20 


235 


1 


. 


1 


2 


426 





426 


851 


21 


195 


. 


2 


4 


6 





1-026 


2-051 


3-077 


22 


145 


1 








1 


690 








690 


23 


118 





1 


1 


2 





847 


847 


1-794 


24 


95 


1 








1 


1-053 








1-053 


Totals 


22,933 


76 


161 


605 


842 


331 


702 


2-638 


3-672 



Far from being an exceptionally heavy wastage rate this is small 
compared with that experienced in many industries. 

An interesting point is brought out in 'Table 8, showing the 
proportion stjll " surviving " after three months' work in several 
factories, the work of which was physically heavy in those 
entered as " H," of a lighter character in those denoted " L." 
The wastage rate is, generally speaking, higher (the proportion 
of " survivors " smaller) in the " H " factories, but the difference 
increases with age as is brought out in the next Table 9, 



368 LABOUR TURNOVER OR INDUSTRIAL WASTAGE 

where the nine months' survivals are shown in each class of 
factory. 

The explanation of this increasing disadvantage seems to be 
that the proportion of married women increases rapidly with age 
(in factories for which requisite data existed, less than 6 per cent, 
of the women under twenty-two were married, 28 per cent, of 
those aged twenty -three to twenty-seven, and more than 50 per 

TABLE 3. All Factories. Ages 18 22. 







Numbers left. 


Percentages. 


Months 
of 


Exposed. 




Other 


No 






Other 


No 




service. 




Ill- 


suffi- 


suffi- 




Ill- 


suffi- 


sulfi 








health. 


cient 


cient 


Total. 


health. 


cient 


cient 


Total. 








reason. 


reason. 






reason. 


reason. 







14,395 


135 


165 


542 


842 


938 


1-146 


3 05 


5-849 


1 


12,388 


128 


147 


388 


663 


1-033 


1-187 


3 132 


5-352 


2 


10,690 


72 


120 


365 


557 


674 


1-123 


3-414 


5-210 


3 


9,056 


75 


117 


300 


492 


828 


1-292 


3-313 


5-433 


4 


7,291 


58 


78 


234 


370 


796 


1-070 


3-209 


5-075 


5 


5,869 


43 


85 


172 


300 


733 


1-448 


2-931 


5-112 


6 


4,775 


31 


62 


151 


244 


649 


1-298 


3-102 


5-110 


7 


3,937 


12 


48 


116 


176 


305 


1-219 


2-946 


4-470 


8 


3,204 


14 


31 


75 


120 


437 


968 


2-341 


3-746 


9 


2,449 


16 


16 


42 


74 


653 


653 


1-716 


3-022 


10 


1,959 


10 


15 


41 


66 


510 


766 


2-093 


3 369 


11 


1,289 


7 


12 


18 


37 


543 


931 


1-396 


2-870 


12 


722 


2 


5 


10 


17 


259 


648 


1-295 


2-202 


13 


617 


3 


2 


4 


9 


483 


324 


648 


1-459 


14 


557 





4 


.1 


5 


_ 


718 


180 


898 


15 


512 


1 


2 


7 


10 


195 


391 


1-367 


1-953 


16 


440 





3 


4 


7 


. . 


682 


909 


1-591 


17 


401 


_ 





1 


1 








249 


249 


18 


372 





4 


6 


10 





995 


1-493 


2-488 


19 


326 


_ 


2 


3 


5 





613 


920 


1-534 


20 


279 


. 





1 


1 


. . 


. 


358 


358 


21 


218 





2 





2 





917 





917 


22 


166 





1 


7 


8 





602 


4-217 


4-819 


23 


144 





1 


1 


2 





694 


694 


1-389 


24 


123 





3 





3 





2-439 





2-439 


Totals 


82,179 


607 


925 


2,489 


4,021 


739 


1-126 


3-029 


4 89.'i 



cent, of those aged twenty-eight and upwards) and that although 
the married women can stand the strain of factory life (in war- 
time) nearly as well as unmarried women if the physical work 
involved is not very heavy, heavy work tips the balance over. 



IV. The Value of Investigation. 

The reader will, we think, perceive that this method of treating 
industrial statistics, a method which makes no demand upon 



RESULTS OF INVESTIGATION 



369 



his mathematical knowledge,* would, if accurate data were com- 
piled, enable him to solve a large number of highly important 
problems. Obviously, an analysis of employment statistics in 
this way would enable the management to forecast the immediate 
future with some accuracy f when an industry is of such a character 
that the productive capacity of a plant depends upon the avail- 
able force of employees who are trained workers. There 



are 



TABLE 4. All Factories. Ages 23 27. 







Numbers left. 


Percentages. 


Months 
of 


Exposed. 




Other 


No 






Other 


No 




service. 




Ill- 


suffi- 


suffi- 




Ill- 


suffi- 


suffi- 








health. 


cient 


cient 


Total. 


health. 


cient 


cient 


Total. 








reason. 


reason. 






reason. 


reason. 







7,564 


87 


170 


342 


599 


1-150 


2-247 


4-521 


7-919 


1 


6,317 


70 


114 


225 


409 


1-108 


1-805 


3-562 


6-475 


2 


5,336 


45 


109 


215 


369 


843 


2-043, 


4-029 


6-915 


3 


4,441 


34 


68 


175 


277 


766 


1-531 


3-941 


6-238 


4 


3,577 


30 


57 


136 


223 


839 


1-594 


3-802 


6-234 


5 


2,798 


32 


46 


86 


164 


1-144 


644 


3-074 


5-861 


6 


2,251 


19 


23 


72 


114 


844 


022 


3-199 


5-064 


7 


1,836 


14 


26 


57 


97 


763 


" -416 


3-105 


5-283 


8 


1,431 


8 


17 


37 


62 


559 


188 


2-586 


4-333 


9 


1,050 


10 


12 


23 


45 


952 


143 


2-190 


4-286 


10 


792 


5 


5 


9 


19 


631 


631 


1-136 


2-399 


11 


509 


2 


3 


14 


19 


393 


589 


2-750 


3-733 


12 


267 


2 


1 


C 


8 


749 


375 


1-873 


2-996 


13 


226 





1 





1 





442 





442 


14 


192 





1 





1 


- 


521 





521 


15 


168 


1 


1 


__ 


2 


595 


595 





1-190 


16 


144 








1 


1 








694 


694 


17 


127 


. . 


1 





1 





787 





787 


18 


103 


1 


1 





2 


971 


971 





1-942 


19 


94 





. . 


. 





. . 











20 


83 





1 





1 





1-205 





1-205 


21 


63 





. 


1 


1 








1-587 


1-587 


22 


42 


_ 

















. 





23 


40 


, 





. , 





, 


, 








24 


34 


_ 





- 





~ 













39,485 


360 


657 


1,398 


2,415 


912 


1-664 


3-541 


6-117 



few of even the simplest semi-skilled operations in which, as 
Vernon found (8) by statistical examination of output for the 
simple repetition process of turning aluminium fuze bodies, a 
maximum productivity is attained by learners within less than 
three months from initiation. 

If workers, says Professor Lee, " do not remain long in the 

* This does not apply to the subject of " probable errors " : vide supra, 
Chapter III. 

t Naturally on the assumption of rebus sic stantibus, the method will not 
cope with labour unrest. 

24 



370 LABOUR TURNOVER OR INDUSTRIAL WASTAGE 

place which they have entered, it is because there is a lack of 
adaptation between them as human beings and their environ- 
ment. This may relate to wages, length of working day, nature 
of the work and their fitness for it, danger of accidents, physical 
conditions of the factory affecting comfort and welfare, their 
foreman or their fellow workmen, or other features with reference 
to which they do not, or think that they do not, fit. Specific 



TABLE 5. All Factories. Ages 28 and over. 







Numbers left 


Percentages 


Months 
of 


Exposed. 




Other 


No 






Other 


No 




service. 




Ill- 


suffi- 


suffi- 




IJ1- 


suffi- 


suffi- 








health. 


cient 


cient 


Total. 


health. 


cient 


cient 


Total 








reason. 


reason. 






reason . 


reason . 







11,840 


168 


272 


593 


1,033 


1-419 


2-297 


5-008 


8-725 


1 


9,516 


112 


165 


361 


638 


1-177 


734 


3-794 


6-704 


2 


8.119 


93 


135 


319 


547 


1-145 


663 


3-929 


6-737 


3 


0,821 


55 


104 


260 


419 


806 


-525 


3-812 


6-143 


4 


5,461 


56 


66 


177 


299 


1-025 


209 


3-241 


5-475 


5 


4,336 


43 


59 


155 


257 


992 


361 


3-575 


5-927 


6 


3,521 


34 


45 


114 


193 


966 


278 


3-238 


5-481 


7 


2,847 


15 


23 


74 


112 


527 


808 


2-599 


3-934 


8 


2,232 


10 


13 


54 


77 


448 


582 


2-419 


3-450 


9 


1,692 


9 


16 


41 


66 


532 


946 


2-423 


3-901 


10 


1,312 


3 


8 


28 


39 


229 


610 


2-134 


2-973 


11 


776 


6 


3 


17 


26 


773 


-387 


2-191 


3-351 


12 


304 


I 





6 


7 


329 





1-974 


2-303 


13 


228 





2 





2 





877 





877 


14 


189 








i 


1 





. 


529 


529 


15 


172 


1 


I 


2 


4 


581 


581 


1-163 


2-326 


16 


137 








I 


I 








730 


730 


* 17 


123 


, 























18 


111 





1 


I 


2 





813 


813 


1-626 


19 


98 


1 


I 


_ 


2 


1-020 


1-020 





2-041 


20 


71 








1 


I 








1-408 


1-408 


21 


65 











' 











! 


22 


49 


; . 





1 


I 








2-041 


2-041 


23 


42 








_ 

















24 


40 




























60,092 


607 


914 


2,206 


3,727 


1-010 


1-521 


3-671 


6-202 



remedies are, therefore, indicated in specific cases, and a careful 
search for the causes and the application of the proper remedies 
should constantly be made by the employing company " (5). 

So far as we are concerned, the most important use to which 
the data can be put is the compilation of rates of wastage due to 
sickness. For this purpose much greater accuracy in compila- 
tion is needed than was secured in wartime factories, which is 
why we do not comment upon the sickness columns in our 
tables. 



RESULTS OF INVESTIGATION 



371 



All persons who asserted that they left their employment 
because of ill-health did not really do so, while some who left 

TABLE 6. Observed Losses of Factory L 7 compared with 
those expected from experience of Factory L 1. 



Under 2 2 


23-27 


Over 28 


All ages. 




L 7. 


L 1. 




L 7. 


L 1 




L7. 


L 1. 




L7 


L 1. 





11 


43-18 





12 


26-28 





22 


22-81 





45 


92-72 


1 


5 


30-93 


1 


4 


15-15 


1 


10 


17-05 


1 


19 


63- 13 


2 


1 


9-54 


2 


1 


8-68 


2 


2 


8-05 


2 


4 


26-27 


3 


_ 


8-42 


3 


1 


5-18 


3 


2 


4-94 


3 


3 


18-54 


4 


_ 


5-23 


4 


1 


3-26 


4 


_ 


2-89 


4 


1 


11-38 


5 


3 


4-61 


5 


- 


1-39 


5 


3 


2-05 


5 


6 


8-05 


6 


1 


1-60 


6 


_ 


1-38 


6 


_ 


1-16 


6 


1 


4-14 


7 


_ 


1-04 


7 


- 


96 


7 


_ 


74 


7 


_ 


2-74 


8 


_ 


04 


8 


- 


03 


8 


_ 


04 


8 


_ 


11 


9 


_ 


02 


9 


_ 


04 


9 


_ 


03 


9 ^ 


_ 


09 


10 


_ 


02 


10 


- 


02 


10 


_ 


. 


10 


_ 


04 


11 


_ 


04 


11 


_ 





11 


_ 





' 11 


_ 


04 


12 


_ 


04 


12 


_ 





12 


_ 





12 


_ 


04 


Over 12 


- 





over 12 


- 





over 12 


- 





over 12 


- 





Total 


21 


104-71 


Total 


19 


62-37 


Total 


39 


59-76 


Total 


79 


226-84 



for what so far as our records are concerned was a wholly 
insufficient reason may have been really sick. The investigation 
of the real wastage by ill-health is a task of the future, and all 

TABLE 7. Numbers remaining at work out of 1,000 
Entrants in accordance with various Hates of Loss. 









L 1 


L 1 


L 1 


Ll 


L l 


Numbers 
remaining 
after 
months. 


LI 
Factory 
(War 
(time). 


L 1 

Factory 
(Pace 
(time). 


Factory 
(Peace 
time, 
ages 
18-22). 


Factory 
(War 
time, 
ages 
18-22). 


Factory 
(War 
time, 
ages 
1317). 


Factory 
(War 
time, 
ages 
23-27). 


Factory 
(War 
time, 
ages 
28- ). 



1 


1,000 
917 


1,000 
921 


1,000 

928 


1,000 
902 


1,000 
929 


1,000 
921 


1,000 
911 


2 


868 


855 


848 


853 


881 


860 


877 


3 


826 


795 


800 


813 


841 


811 


830 


4 


791 


749 


754 


778 


799 


777 


807 


5 


757 


703 


710 


749 


764 


729 


781 


6 


730 


658 


668 


727 


739 


696 


742 



we have attempted in this chapter is to show how the data, when 
obtained, may be used. The wastage rate in our tables of the 
first month of employment is higher than that of the succeeding 
months, just as in ordinary vital statistics the death rate of the 



372 LABOUR TURNOVER OR INDUSTRIAL WASTAGE 



first year of life is a great deal higher than that of the immediately 
following years. Indeed, we should expect to be able to trace a 
complete formal analogy between an ideal industrial life table 
and an ordinary life table, to find that the death rate declines 
from a maximum in the first year of life and gradually increases 
in adult lite to a second maximum in old age. Some " infant 

TABLE 8. Three Months' Survival Rates. 



Eactory. 


Ages 18-22. 


Ages 23-27 


Ages 28- 


L4 


84-16 -83 


81-08 1-21 


83-95 1-06 


L5 


93-60 -74 


94-12 -71 


89-50 1-10 


H4 . 


88-32 -92 


84-62 1-81 


81-65 1-89 


HI . 


82-30 1-67 


72-88 1-92 


71-24 1-23 


H8 .. 


66-27 2-04 


66-34 2-86 


66-93 2-74 


H9 


90-73 1-40 


86-81 2-01 


83-84 1-56 


L3 


86-75 -73 


81-50 -98 


86-07 -67 


H2 


81-03 2-03 


74-71 2-00 


66-56 1-57 


H3 .. 


77-16 1-53 


64-76 1-66 


72-32 1-14 


H 6 


87-89 2-29 





88-67 1-74 


H10 


85-71 d: -52 


82-70 -86 


81-01 -78 


L 1 


81-32 -71 


81-07 1-08 


83-02 -97 


H6 


87-91 -61 


78-80 -95 


78-50 71 


L2 


77-45 1-05 


71-81 1-16 


80-92 -80 


H 7 


82-65 -59 


77-55 -70 


75-65 -92 


L8 


74-70 2-06 








L6 


70-29 2-77 


64-70 3-68 


71-87 2-26 


L7 


95-34 -78 


90-92 1-46 


87-78 1-38 



mortality " is inevitable in any industry, since, however perfect 
the system of selection, some must be engaged who are unsuit- 
able and quickly discover (or have pointed out to them) their 
unfitness. It is equally fitting that the old age " mortality " 

TABLE 9. Nine Months' Survival Rates. 



Age Group. 


L. 


H 


Difference 


18-22 
23-27 
28- 


67-55 
65-15 
66-59 


52 
76 
59 


59-64 
61-46 
52-45 


49 
68 
54 


7-91 dt 
13-69 1 
14-14 


71 

02 
80 



should again increase, because the longer the service the greater 
the proportion of withdrawals conditioned by socially proper 
motives, such as marriage, promotion, pensioning.* 

But here again the analogy to ordinary vital statistics is 

* Our wartime statistics throw no light at all upon these matters ; the 
rates of leaving in later months are quite unreliable and in some cases, for 
instance, when the statistics only covered a few months, meaningless. 



LABOUR WASTAGE AND SICKNESS 373 

evident an unusually high rate of " infant mortality " in 
factories can often be reduced, and its existence is usually a sign 
that the conditions of employment need attention. In the 
course of our official duties at the Ministry of Munitions we had 
several opportunities to prove the utility of such statistics in 
forming a judgment of and advising as to the improvement of 
local conditions. In general, a case exists for inquiry in any 
factory which suffers a large " infant mortality," and in which 
the wastage rates after a decline in the second month rise steadily 
and unmistakably in the third, fourth and immediately following 
months. In many cases, probably the majority, the explanation 
is not of medical interest. Thus the beginner, if not on his guard, 
may discover mares' nests ; for instance, a great increase of 
wastage in the third month may merely depend upon a system 
of booking, absentees being struck off the register finally after an 
absence of a certain number of months. Local strikes or the 
closure of particular departments may lead to very strange 
statistical consequences. A moderate application of common 
sense and reasonable patience will overcome these difficulties. 
When, however, these obvious explanations have been exhausted 
it will sometimes be found that there remain matters to which 
the hygienist must give his attention. 

The wastage rate from sickness is, in our opinion, the most 
important object of study. In the analysis of this it is not 
sufficient to attend only to gross percentages. We have already 
said that the sickness rates in our data are unreliable, but we 
may be permitted to use them as illustrations. In the. general 
Table 1, the wastage assigned to ill-health is 1-1 per cent, of all 
entrants in the first month, 1 per cent, in the second month, and 
then declines irregularly, being less than 0-5 per cent, in all 
months after the 12th. Even if these figures accurately measure 
the wastage due to ill-health it would not follow that the condi - 
tions in the later months are more favourable, because : (a) the 
selective effect of the elimination of weakly persons due to the 
high rates in early months must, pro tanto, leave a healthier 
population ; and (b) the proportion of grave illnesses amongst 
the employees leaving owing to ill-health in the later months of 
service might be greater. In other words, a table of percentage 
wastage due to sickness is a starting point, not a goal, of hygienic 
inquiry. 

We here repeat what we have said in Chapter VI., viz., that 
the industrial affinities of tuberculosis merit the closest study. 
We have remarked that general vital statistics point to a cor- 
relation between fluctuations of employment in industry and 
variations of the death rate from tubercular diseases. We have 



374 LABOUR TURNOVER OR INDUSTRIAL WASTAGE 

also shown that* no simple or direct interpretation of this is yet 
possible. The moral is that more information should be collected. 
Is the proportional invalidity rate from phthisis a function of the 
length of employment in industry ? This is a most important 
question. A tabulation of phthisis rates by length of service 
would not suffice to answer it we should have to allow for the 
effect of age itself, because the optimum age for the manifestation 
of phthisis is later than the usual age of entering a factory ; 
but a tabulation by length of service would at least give us 
information of essential value indeed, one of the elements of our 
problem. So far as we are aware, no such data has ever been 
compiled on an adequate scale. The factory medical officer or 
welfare superintendent who intelligently practises the methods 
sketched in this chapter, and avails himself of the information 
which the improvement and co-ordination of the Medical Health 
Insurance Service under the Ministry of Health should afford, 
might make a substantial contribution to our knowledge of this 
subject. 

V. Prevention of Industrial Wastage. 

The existence of industrial wastage, recognition of its adverse 
effect and knowledge of how to measure it, would be of little 
more than academic interest if no means existed for its reduction. 
There is, however, evidence to show that it can be reduced, and 
reduced greatly, by means already tried. Attention, for in- 
stance, has been above directed to the favourable influence 
exerted by a highly organised welfare system, which included a 
preliminary medical examination of workers, upon the labour 
turnover of factory L 7 (see Table 6), and of an eight-hour 
plant in America. Measures to prevent labour wastage should 
be twofold, directed to diminishing " infantile mortality " 
through careful selection of workers, and also to prolonging the 
period of industrial life through care taken of those employed. 

Selection of Workers. The selection of workers may be con- 
sidered from two points of view : (i.) the general health of the 
applicant ; and (ii.) the special fitness, if any, he possesses for 
the work to be undertaken. These points of view are by no 
means distinct ; for instance, an applicant with impaired circu- 
lation may on general grounds be unfitted for heavy physical 
work, .but be considered able to undertake sedentary employ- 
ment. Nevertheless general health should be the first considera- 
tion, and the medical organisation and methods which should 
be adopted for selecting workers on this account are discussed in 
Chapter XVII. An industrial medical officer should with 
experience become skilled not merely in eliminating those 



PREVENTION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTAGE 375 

obviously unfit for any work, but in selecting workers fitted for 
particular processes ; for this purpose he should familiarise 
himself with all forms of work carried on in the concern to which 
he is attached. He may then with advantage tabulate the 
various processes and record against each group what disabilities 
should prohibit employment, and what special capacity is called 
for. He will soon find that for dusty processes, for instance, 
bronchitis is a disability ; for long standing, varicose veins ; for 
lifting weights, hernia ; for exposure to high temperature, 
impaired circulation. While on the other hand good vision will 
be required for fine work, such as sewing, drawing or linotyping ; 
good hearing for a shorthand writer ; good physique for heavy 
labour. 

The next step he should take is to tabulate the qualities and 
capacities required ; then as each applicant comes before him 
the presence or absence of these qualities can be quickly noted, 
and the combination possessed by the individual ascertained ; 
after which the process requiring this combination is found by 
reference to the first table. He will, from such simple beginnings, 
find himself embarked not merely upon rejecting the unfit, but 
upon selecting the fit. He should, however, always be kept 
informed as to the result of his work by being provided with 
tables of labour turnover, corresponding to his classification of 
processes ; only in this way can he estimate the correctness of 
his method or the need for reconsidering his estimates. 

Any one embarking upon this work who is dubious as to his 
skill in determining capacities and disabilities may be advised 
to proceed on the following lines. Let him ascertain from the 
foreman or the wage book who of those already employed are 
the best workers and who the worst at the processes concerned ; 
then let him examine the two groups and discover what charac- 
teristic distinguishes one from the other. In this way he may 
find some apparently chance characteristic which, though not 
actually of value to the process, is present in all or most of the 
best workers and absent from the worst. Then he may venture 
to pick as new workers persons possessing this characteristic. 

The future may see a considerable development in the science 
of selection of workers, which is coming to be known as voca- 
tional selection ; for the moment, however, while its ultimate 
value to the productivity of industry and to the efficiency and 
health of the workers must, we think, be great, there is no 
sufficient body of data upon which to present here an accepted 
line of practice. The reader may with advantage consult the 
work of Muscio (9). 

Care of the Employed. Important as is the selection of workers 



76 LABOUR TURNOVER OR INDUSTRIAL WASTAGE 

in lessening labour turnover, of equal importance is the care of 
those already employed. The data we have already given show 
that with length of employment the field of endeavour is smaller ; 
industrial wastage becomes progressively less as industrial life 
lengthens. But workers increase in value to the employer in 
proportion to the length of their industrial experience ; the loss 
of a single experienced operative may be a more important 
matter than the loss of several recent recruits. 

Supervision of the personal health and welfare of those em- 
ployed, and of the hygienic conditions under which they work, 
provides the means for preventing this " adult industrial 
mortality." These matters are discussed in Chapter XVII. ; 
but stress may here be laid on the advisability (i.) of watching 
the wage list. for signs of gradually diminishing earnings, an 
indication that energy is falling off, due in many cases to some 
reason medically remediable, which if not taken in time may 
lead to loss of the worker ; and (ii.) of inquiring closely into the 
circumstances connected with every impending notice to leave, 
or with every person who may have left without notice given. 

VI. Bibliography. 

1. Willitts, J. H. " Steadying Employment." Annals American 
Acad. Polit. and Soc. Science. May, 1916. 

2. Alexander. " Proceedings Employment Managers' Conference." 
U.S. Bureau of Labour Statistics, No. 227. 1917. [Also cited in (1).] 

3. Greenwood, M. "A Report on the Causes of Wastage of 
Labour in Munition Factories employing Women." Medical Re- 
search Committee. Special Report Series, No. 16. 1918. (The data 
quoted in this chapter and the method of reduction are fully discussed 
here.) 

4. Greenwood, M. Health of Munition Workers Committee. 
Final Report, Appendix D, p. 163. (Cd. 9065.) 1918. 

5. Lee, F. S. The Human Machine. Longmans, Green & Co. 
1918. 

6. Handbook for Welfare Supervisors and Apprentice Masters, 
pp. 104 108. Ministry of Labour. 1919. 

7. Greenwood, M. " Problems of Industrial Organisation." Jour. 
Roy. Stat. Soc., Vol. LXXXIL, p. 186. 1919. 

8. Vernon, H. M. " Statistical Information concerning Output in 
relation to Hours of Work." Health of Munition Workers Committee. 
Memo. No. 12. (Cd. 8344.) 1916. 

9. Muscio, B. " Choosing the Worker." The Industrial Clinic. 
J. Bale, Sons and Danielsson. 1920. 

10. " Comparison of an Eight-hour Plant and a Ten-hour Plant." 
Public Health Bulletin No. 106. Government Printing Office, 
Washington. 



CHAPTER XVII 

SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

I. Introduction. II. Medical Supervision: (a) The Origin of the Certi- 
fying Factory Surgeon ; (b) Present Duties ; (c) Recent Develop- 
ment : (d) Possibilities of Factorv Medical Officers. III. The 
Factory Nurse : (a) Ambulance Room ; (6) First Aid Organisa- 
tion. IV. The Welfare Superintendent. V. The Dental Clinic. 
VI. Bibliography. 

I. Introduction. 

THE foregoing chapters will have shown how a new branch of 
medical science has come into existence, a branch dealing with 
the life and health of those industrially employed. Scientific 
discoveries to be of practical use must be embodied in an art ; 
and where the art, or technic, contrived for this new branch of 
preventive medicine has been introduced into industry, results 
have followed, beneficial not only to the health and welfare of 
the workers, but also to the quality and quantity of output, and 
to the economics of industrial management. In order to attain 
ends so important to the industrial world in particular, and the 
community in general, definite persons must be appointed to 
carry out definite duties. Certain of these duties are strictly 
medical, and must be placed in medical hands ; others can be 
undertaken by trained nurses acting under medical supervision ; 
dental treatment calls for qualified dentists, while certain 
other duties more particularly social in character must be 
entrusted to those who are specially trained in such work. A 
condition of success in each case is the establishment of close 
personal relations with the individual workers ; so that individual 
conditions can become known through the medium of trained 
experts appointed to advise the management, each in relation to 
his own sphere. 

II. Medical Supervision. 

Industrialisation has modified the medical man's relationship 
to his patients. When occupation was either on the land or in 
the home the doctor knew from personal observation how daily 
work was carried on, and was able to advise his patient accord- 
ingly ; to-day the position is different. The doctor and patient 
still meet either in the surgery, when both are tired after a long 
day's toil, or in the artisan's home ; but in neither case has the 
doctor now an opportunity of acquainting himself with the 
environment of the man's daily toil, although he is frequently 



378 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

called upon to give advice upon the suitability of the^ occupation 
carried on, or even to state upon certificates that the malady 
suffered from has been caused or accentuated by occupation. 
Unfortunate results sometimes follow from the doctor putting 
his name to a statement made by the patient and certifying that 
symptoms are the result of exposure to some influence, possibly 
a poison, which the occupation does not really entail. 

The medical man of to-day should acquire that knowledge of 
industry and its effect in causing or contributing to disease which 
can only come from direct personal observation. In the past- 
some recognition had been given to this by sporadic efforts to 
establish medical supervision ; as early as 1842 Chad wick (1) 
reported how Mr. John Smith, of Deanston, near Stirling, 
" retained the services of a medical gentleman to inspect the 
workpeople from time to time, and give them timely advice, 
and, as far as possible, prevent disease." Experiments like 
these were, however, few and did not represent any organised 
effort to establish a scheme of preventive medicine in relation 
to industry. 

The Origin of the Certifying Factory Surgeon. The art of 
preventive medicine in Great Britain was originated by Sir John 
Simon between 185565, when the importance of the industrial 
revolution to social life had attained public recognition. Atten- 
tion has already been directed to the work done at that time by 
Greenhow upon the influence exerted by the industries of the 
country upon health ; but the services of the profession already, 
some twenty years earlier, had been required in relation to 
factory employment. Simple though the early duties demanded 
were, they are of historic interest because they brought the 
profession directly into contact with industry ; the Factory Act 
of 1833 laid down that no child under nine years of age might 
work in cotton mills, and that no child between nine and thirteen 
might work more than eight hours a day. The first factory 
inspectors who were appointed, since birth certification was not 
made obligatory until 1837, had no documentary evidence as to 
the age of the children to depend on ; but they were permitted 
to call for a certificate from a surgeon or physician to declare 
any employed child was of " the ordinary strength and appear- 
ance " of a child of nine years of age. Certificates were, how- 
ever, tendered from cow-doctors, dentists and others quite 
unqualified to give them ; Mr. Rickards, inspector for the 
Manchester district, found it necessary to recognise only the 
certificates of certain medical men authorised by him for the 
purpose. His system was found to work well, and was adopted 
by other inspectors; in the Act of 1844 the appointment of 



DUTIES OF CERTIFYING SURGEON 379 

certifying factory surgeons was definitely recognised (see also 
Chapter II.). 

At this time the ehild seeking 1 employment had to pay Gd. for 
his own certificate. Later the cost was shared between the 
employer and the employed, and finally was laid on the employer 
alone. The charge has remained 6d. per certificate,* although 
with the introduction of birth certification the duties laid on 
the factory surgeon have been profoundly modified. 

Present Duties. The surgeon is now no longer called upon to 
certify to the age of the juvenile as this is proved by the birth 
certificate which must be produced before him ; but he has now 
to examine the young person and certify that he " is not in- 
capable by disease or bodily infirmity for working daily for the 
time allowed by law in the factory named in the certificate " ; 
he may examine the process at which the young person is to be 
employed, and he may qualify his certificate by conditions as 
to the work on which the young person is fitted to be employed. 
In order to assist a factory medical officer when acting as a 
certifying surgeon in carrying out his duties, a useful purpose 
may be served by dwelling upon some medical points to be paid 
attention to when making examinations. The suggestions made 
are based upon official experience. 

Privacy should be ensured, and advantage is obtained from 
the presence of the welfare officer or nurse, who should undertake 
the duty of carrying out any instructions given by the surgeon. 

The points to which attention should be paid are : 

(1) Auscultation of the heart and presence or absence of 

ansemia. 

(2) State of the glands in the neck. 

(3) Condition as regards tonsils and adenoids. 

(4) Condition of the teeth. 

(5) Infectious or contagious diseases, including pediculi 

capitis. 

(6) Physical development. 

(7) Mental condition. 

(8) Hearing. 

(9) Vision. 

Defects disclosed should determine for any employment under 
consideration whether the person presented should be (i.) rejected, 
or (ii.) receive a certificate qualified as to conditions. 

The objects to be aimed at in the examination have been well- 
stated (7) as 

(1) Avoidance of injury to the health, development, or bodily 
capacity of the individual inspected. 
* The fee was raised to Is. per certificate in March, 1920. 



380 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

(2) Protection of the fellow workers, of whatever age or sex. 

(3) Maintenance of legality : this directly protects the em- 

ployer. 

(4) Checking unfair competition, and protecting the more 

conscientious manufacturers from the less scrupulous. 

A certifying surgeon should examine the heart with the chest 
bared. This procedure should not be restricted to occasions 
when appearance or a history of previous illness, such as rheu- 
matic fever, suggests it. 

Anaemia, particularly in girls, where the proposed employment 
necessitates standing or heavy physical work, should be a cause 
for rejection ; in such cases the employment may accentuate the 
condition, while the possibility of fainting when working among 
moving machinery is an important consideration.* 

Physical examination of lungs on factory premises, unless a 
suitable ambulance room or rest room is available, may be re- 
stricted to cases where other manifestations, such as the condition 
of glands in the neck, suggest the possibility of tubercular infec- 
tion. Glands of the neck, if discharging, should be a bar to 
indoor employment. A child or young person with distinct 
signs of incipient phthisis may be rejected, even if there is no 
actual inability to undertake the full time allowed by law for 
the proposed employment, should the surgeon consider such 
employment would be prejudicial to health. Consideration has 
already been given (see Chapter VI.) to the industrial treatment 
of phthisis. 

Enlarged tonsils alone are seldom a sufficient cause for rejec- 
tion ; even when adenoid tissue is clearly hypertrophied the 
surgeon should be satisfied that associated physical development 
unfits the child or young person for employment. Those 
suffering from these conditions certainly run a risk in crowded 
workrooms of catarrhal infection ; but action should generally 
be limited to giving advice. The surgeon may also be influenced 
by the presence of dust, or of artificial humidity or high tempera- 
ture which necessitates extreme changes of atmosphere on leaving 
work and so predisposes to affections of the air passages. 

Bad teeth and oral sepsis should be advised upon ; but only 
when the state of health consequent upon them renders the 
proposed employment injurious to the individual or entails 
infection to others should the surgeon consider them reasons for 
rejection. In carrying out his duties the certifying surgeon 
must have in mind that his legal powers restrict him to deter- 

* The certifying surgeon must, of course, try to avoid a confusion 
between "functional" and "organic" heart trouble, and, to that end, 
endeavour to control by other methods the data of auscultation. 



DUTIES OF CERTIFYING SURGEON 381 

mining whether some special form of occupation is advantageous 
or disadvantageous for an individual ; he may nevertheless draw 
attention to and advise upon other matters, but he cannot 
enforce his advice by refusing to issue a certificate. 

The presence of pediculi capitis may be a reason for rejection, 
especially when associated with an eczematous condition and 
enlarged glands. Advantage may be gained by having instruc- 
tions issued to the children before they are presented to the 
surgeon, which indicate how these conditions may be remedied. 
The following form may be taken as an example of instructions : 

" In order to pass the doctor it is necessary to have the head 
very clean. The following is a good method of cleaning the 
hair : 

" (1) The hair to be well combed with a small toothcomb. 

" (2) Wash the hair with carbolic soft soap. 

" (3) Then soak the hair in brown vinegar and water, equal 
parts. Then tie the hair up in a towel for half an hour. 

" (4) Rinse well with hot water and borax. 

" (5) Do not fail to use the vinegar." 

Much can be done where half-time employment prevails by 
co operation in this matter between the school medical officer 
and the certifying surgeon. The homes of children who seek 
factory work are frequently not places where such treatment 
will be carried out, and, if a factory nurse is employed, she can 
do valuable work by quietly giving practical demonstrations to 
those refused by the surgeon. Such instruction is often carried 
home to the benefit of a whole family. 

Small size of a child is not of itself a sufficient cause for rejec- 
tion ; regard must also be had to the work which is contemplated. 
The employment of children prevails mainly in the textile 
industry, and the overlooker of a cotton mill will seldom choose 
a child who is too short for the work. The work includes such 
operations as (a) sweeping, (b) cleaning, (c) creeling, (d) tubing, 
(e) piecing, (/) doffing, and (g) bobbin sorting and collecting ; 
it is generally speaking of a light character. Where heavier 
work is to be done, such as lifting or dragging tins or skips, 
qualifying conditions can be added to the certificate. A short 
and wiry child may be more fitted for working in a cotton 
mill than a tall, flabby child. 

The home circumstances of a child who is badly nourished 
should be taken into consideration. The condition of the child 
may be. caused by want of food, which is improved when the 
child becomes a wage earner. Nutrition below normal may not 
then be a sufficient reason for rejection ; but if malnutrition is 
associated with anaemia rejection may be called for. These 



382 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

latter cases will probably improve better by rest and treatment 
rather than by work. 

The mentality of the person presented should always be 
considered, and the standard attained at school is a valuable 
indication. Special Acts exist for dealing with defective and 
epileptic children up to the age of sixteen years ; and the surgeon 
should, when such cases come before him, refer them to the local 
education authority. There is always the possibility that a 
mental defective may be attempting to obtain work in contra- 
vention of the Acts. 

Where eyesight is defective the surgeon should ascertain that 
the employment is such as will not cause undue eyestrain. 
Monocular vision, however, should be a bar to work near 
machinery. Children with eye-defect^, if called upon to do work 
requiring close attention, seldom become experts or able to earn 
reasonable wages. A text-type is issued by the Home Office for 
use by surgeons. Ability to read D = 1-75 on the card supplied 
at one metre distance indicates a visual acuity which lies between 
g and T %. The card may be useful as some guide as to when 
glasses are needed before a certificate can be granted for close 
work or work near machinery. But while surgeons should make 
ample use of the power which they now possess of qualifying 
their certificates with conditions of labour, and they are em- 
powered to state that the child or young person should not be 
employed upon heavy physical work or in the neighbourhood of 
moving machinery, yet they have no power of limiting the period 
of employment, or requiring that the individual shall, for 
instance, wear suitable spectacles. 

The surgeon should keep in touch with the juvenile employ- 
ment committee if such exists in the neighbourhood, or with any 
special advisory committee connected with the labour exchanges. 
Advantage is also gained if he is provided with the names of 
those who when leaving school are suffering from any serious 
defect such as heart disease, incipient phthisis, mental defects 
or impaired vision, so that when they apply for employment he 
may have this information at his disposal and so insure that 
suitable employment is undertaken. 

The surgeon has in his power opportunities for safeguarding 
the health of the rising generation, and he should remember that 
he often has the chance of addressing the first word of encourage- 
ment to a child on his start in industrial life. 

The duties above set out, when they are fully performed, make 
for an efficient supervision of those entering upon industrial 
life ; but, at best, they only establish a filter through which 
healthy young persons are admitted to employment ; they do 



RECENT DEVELOPMENT 



383 



not set up any method of supervision for ascertaining the effect 
of work upon health and physical development. And unfor- 
tunately the fee for which the surgeon has to perform his work 
is not sufficient to ensure that the work is conscientiously carried 
out. 

Once this office of certifying factory surgeon was legally 
recognised, other duties were from time to time added, which 
to-day include investigating and reporting upon the causation 
of certain specified industrial diseases and poisonings, and septic 
poisoning resulting from accidental injuries ; examining periodi- 
cally workpeople employed in certain dangerous trades ; 
examining, under the Workmen's Compensation Act, those 
suffering from certain scheduled industrial diseases and poison- 
ings, and granting certificates accordingly. 

While these duties are important in themselves, the value of 
medical men visiting industrial establishments has been con- 
siderable in other ways. Their advice has been sought on many 
points and their services have been retained in certain cases to 
supervise first-aid organisation and the general health of the 
workers. Action on these lines, however, has been left to 
employers to develop on their own initiative, and it has been the 
exception rather than the rule. 

Recent Development. A great impetus was given to factory 
medical service, as set out above, during the war, owing to the 
occurrence of poisoning from trinitrotoluene (T.N.T.), the high 
explosive used for filling shells, bombs, mines, hand grenades and 
other munitions of war. Immediate steps had to be taken to 
preserve the health of the workers, and to inspire confidence 
among them, in order to maintain the output. One of the most 
important steps taken was the appointment of whole-time 
medical officers, one for every 2,000 persons employed, entrusted 
with definite duties : to examine every applicant for work 
before engagement ; to inspect frequently the conditions of 
employment and the processes carried on ; to inspect every 
worker periodically, pick out those indisposed, and if necessary 
suspend them from work ; and to advise the management upon 
all medical matters arising. 

The importance and value of the work became more and more 
obvious a^ it developed, not only in controlling T.N.T. sickness, 
but in many other medical questions which were found to be 
constantly referred to the medical staff. Managers discovered 
that a medical staff was invaluable, and at other factories where 
there was no special risk such as T.N.T. poisoning to combat, 
medical officers were called for. These officers living and 
working within the organisation of the factory were found able 



384 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

to render more valuable services than can a doctor who only 
sees his patients during busy consulting hours, or in the cottage 
home after health has broken down, and moreover has little 
. knowledge of the daily life of the worker and of the industrial 
strain causing the breakdown. Development on these lines may 
become more rapid in the immediate future than was possible 
during the war period owing to the sudden diminution in the 
supply of medical men available for civilian work. 

For the moment development is in this country probably 
being rather hampered than helped by the office of certifying 
factory surgeon ; the employer is inclined to estimate the use of 
medical services from the work he sees done, and this work is 
confessedly as inadequate as the fee paid. The service requires 
to be entirely reorganised ; closer touch should on the one side 
be established with the school medical service so that informa- 
tion as to past health can be at the disposal of the factory medical 
officer when examining for employment ; on the other- side the 
scope of work must be enlarged to include adults, and the whole 
period of industrial employment. 

Possibilities of the Factory Medical Officer. Dr. Mock, an 
American industrial surgeon of considerable experience, has 
described fully (10) the scope of work and the organisation 
required in an establishment employing several thousands of 
workers. We do not propose to repeat here what he has ably 
set forth ; but all factories are not on so large a scale, and a few 
instances of the way in which medical services have been utilised 
in this country may be of value to show the lines which develop- 
ment may take. One engineering factory, employing some 
2,250 workers, almost all men, engaged a medical officer working 
full time, who acted also as panel doctor for most of the em- 
ployees. He made a medical examination of all new workers, 
not merely of the juveniles ; absentees from work were followed 
up by him if they had not seen him before leaving work, and 
they again saw him before resuming work. The medical officer's 
work included also supervision of dressings at the ambulance 
station, ordinary diagnosis of illness, minor surgical treatment 
and any attendance on the workers where necessary in their 
homes or at the neighboming cottage hospital. The number of 
patients seen varied from sixty to seventy-five a day. The 
medical officer had quarters provided on the ground floor any 
quarters approached by a staircase are unsuitable for the 
expeditious and humane treatment of sick and injured people 
comprising (a) a waiting room ; (b) an ambulance room ; (c) a 
consulting room ; (d) an office for a clerk who deals with sick 
pay and compensation claims ; (e) two water closets. The 



FACTORY MEDICAL OFFICER 



385 



fittings of the ambulance room are dealt with later. Experience 
shows that if arrangements have been made for male and female 
cases to be seen at separate hours there is no need for a separate 
male and female waiting room. Emergencies that cut across 
this arrangement are few and far between. 

A different plan was adopted at another engineering factory, 
where about 2,500 men and women were employed. The part- 
time services of a medical officer were retained. He attended 
the ambulance room daily from noon till one. He then saw cases 
of injury which had been held over for his inspection or had come 
up for redressing. He also examined at that time all workers 
before engagement, when any physical defects such as hernia, 
hydrocele, varicocele, varicose veins or heart trouble were 
entered in a book and the entry countersigned by the worker ; 
in this way claims in respect of that particular defect at some 
later date were avoided. The medical officer also treated at his 
own house cases sent to him by the nurses on duty. Employees 
had to report every accident, no matter how slight, to the fore 
man, who passed the case on to the ambulance- room. Workers 
were in no case allowed to treat any wound themselves. All 
wounds were dressed by nurses under the supervision of the 
medical officer, and patients were not sent to their own doctors, 
for the latter had not time for treating, and could not be expected 
to treat daily a large number of minor and apparently trifling 
injuries. Under the system adopted every wound, however 
slight, was dressed within. a few minutes of its occurrence and 
properly cared for until healed. 

TABLE 1. 









REPORTED ACCIDENTS. 




o 








Causing lost time. 




"5 






2 




PERIOD. 


II 




All 


fi 


o 


ISfl 


^ 


-3U 

<U^i 


03 


4 




s 




cases. 


ft 




^0 


gl] 




O * 


o 




g 0> 






9 




' *S 




2 


a 


S3 




^ 








I 


Ms 

EH ft O 


g+= M 


M.a'a 


S* 


3 


First six 
months. 


2,630 


Number. 
Percentage. 


347 
13-2 


61 
2-3 


131 
5 


87 
3-3 


31 
1-2 


35 
1-3 


2 
0-1 


286 
^10-9 


Second six 
months. 


2,550 


Number. 
Percentage. 


494 
19-4 


215 

8-4 


157 
6-2 


88 
3-5 


21 

0-8 


13 

0-5 






279. 
10-9 


Third six- 


2,400 


Number. 


351 


140 


121 


64 


12 


14 





211 


months. 




Percentage. 


14-6 


5-8 


5-0 


2-7 


0-5 


0-6 





8'8 


Fourth six 
months. 


2,400 


Number. 
Percentage. 


411 
17-1 


190 
7-9 


129 
5-4 


63 
2-6 


22 
0-9 


7 
0-3 




o 


221 

9-2 



386 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 



This scheme is -of special interest because the effect was care- 
fully watched (2), and is shown in the accompanying tables. 
The first table shows how the time lost on account of injuries 
was materially lessened. The gross increase in the number of 
accidents treated is of course a mere consequence of the rule that 
all accidents, however trivial, should be reported ; the important 
point is the reduction in total lost time through accidents. If 
we suppose that the average loss of time in the group under two 
weeks is one week, three weeks in the. next group, five weeks in 
the next, sixteen in the next and thirty-four for those incapaci- 
tated more than six months, it appears that during the first six 
months 1,175 weeks were lost, 734 in the next, 597 and 540 in 
the following periods ; expressed as proportions of the average 
numbers employed, we have, 0-45, 0-29, 0-25, 0-23. The second 

TABLE 2. Workmen's Compensation. 



Period. 


Actual 
Compensa- 
tion paid. 
A. 


Medical 
expenses. 
B. 


Heavy risk 
insurance. 
C. 


Total 
A. plus B. 
plus C. 


Cost if in- 
sured at- ususil 
rate. 




8. d. 


. d. 


s. d. 


s. d. 


. d. 


First six months 


516 16 3 


177 14 7 


156 5 


850 15 10 


1,125 


(1916) 












Second six months 


703 7 9 


177 14 7 


156 5 


1,037 7 4 


1,125 


(1916) 












Third six months 


655 17 4 


177 14 7 


156 5 


989 16 11 


1,125 


(1917) 
Fourth six months 
(1917) 


471 19 6 


J177 14 71 
(152 / 


156 5 


957 19 1 


1,125 


Total for two years 


2,348 10 


862 18 4 


625 9 


3,835 19 2 


4,500 



table shows that not only was this amount of illness saved, but 
that the saving was effected economically. The firm decided to 
carry its own insurance against accidents for all claims less than 
100. The table shows the actual amount paid in compensation, 
the medical expenses and the insurance to cover risks over 100 ; 
and these three items added together come to considerably less 
than would have been paid on insurance at the usual rate. The 
second figure of medical expenses for the fourth period refers to 
the cost of paid professional nurses who were then substituted 
for voluntary attendants. Notwithstanding this alteration, in 
this period also a substantial economy was effected. 

Yet a third instance is of interest where a group of factories 
agreed together to employ a medical man, paying him on a 
capitation basis of so much per 100 workers employed. The 
duties he was asked to undertake were to make not less than four 
health inspections of every part of each factory every year, and 
during these inspections to give attention to the following 



FACTORY MEDICAL OFFICER 387 

matters : (a) The organisation of first-aid treatment ; (b) the 
keeping of personal records of health and progress of each 
worker ; (c) the condition of the sanitary conveniences ; (d) the 
cleanliness of the windows ; (e) the ventilation of each work- 
place ; (/) the temperature of each workplace ; (g) the cleanli- 
ness of each workplace ; (h) the prevalence of spitting ; (i) the 
provision of facilities for obtaining foods ; ( j) the provision of 
drinking water ; (k) the provision of cloakroom accommoda- 
tion ; and (/) the provision of washing conveniences. On the 
occasion of these visits the appointed doctor should be prepared 
to advise on any medical subject connected with the employment 
carried on and as to the health of any person employed about 
whom he is consulted. Any observations or instructions which 
he may give should be stated in writing before leaving the 
factory, and preserved for the information of the management 
and for reference at subsequent visits. 

While these examples are of value to indicate how medical 
supervision can be organised, the simple principles which should 
be followed when establishing industrial medical service may be 
stated as follows. The service is required : 

(a) To inspect and grade all new workers ; 

(b) To advise the management and particularly the Welfare 

Branch on working conditions in relation to the health 
of the workers ; 

(c) To supervise the organisation of ambulance work both 

medical and surgical, and the professional work of the 
nursing staff ; 

(d) To visit the establishment at frequent intervals for the 

purpose of seeing special cases of injury or sickness ; 
(c) To inspect periodically every part of the premises and 

report on the hygienic conditions found ; 

(/) To re-examine juvenile workers at periodic intervals in 
order to ascertain the effect of employment upon 
development ; and 
(g) To re-examine workers who have been away ill before they 

resume full employment. 

The Cost of Factory Medical Service. The instance quoted 
above shows how one item of service, i.e., adequate treatment 
of injuries, may bear the whole cost of medical service and yet 
leave a profit, with all else done on the credit side. 

Mock has also tried to construct a balance sheet, and has 
taken another item of service for consideration, viz., the examina- 
tion of applicants. He quotes figures from ten large concerns 
where " these examinations are not made for the purpose of 
selecting only the physically fit and refusing employment to all 



388 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

others, but are* made for the following purposes : (a) To 
prevent those with diseased conditions, making work of any 
kind dangerous to them, from going to work ; (b) to select 
proper jobs for those with certain defects where they can still 
be efficient and yet the work will not be hazardous to them ; 
(c) to prevent those with contagious diseases from mingling with 
the old working force." He claims that workers eliminated by 
these means may fairly be held to represent a saving in labour 
turnover, since ill-health or inefficiency would soon have led to 
their departure ; the cost of hiring and training a worker i's 
placed at what he considers to be a low average figure of 35 
dollars. He found that in ten large concerns 118,900 applicants 
were examined in one year, of whom 34-7 per cent, possessed 
disabilities which did not prevent suitable work being found for 
them, while 11,433, or 9-7 per cent, were definitely rejected. He 
calculates, therefore, that these rejections represented an annual 
saving of (35 X 11,433 =) 400,155 dollars in labour turnover. 
The method of estimation appears to be a legitimate one. 

Next he ascertained the average cost per head per year of 
total medical service; and found it worked out at two and a 
half dollars. The regular number of employees at the above 
ten concerns was 102,400, for which the total medical service 
came, on this estimate, to 256,000 dollars. 

$ 

Saving in labour turnover .... 400,155 
Entire cost of medical service . . . 256,000 
Annual profit from only one item of service . 144,155 

The first instance (p. 385) makes no claim with respect to 
saving in labour turnover ; this latter instance makes no claim 
with respect to saved compensation ; neither claim anything 
for diminished lost time, for increase in quality and quantity of 
output, or greater safety to the plant, due to steadier work by 
employees more efficient through greater length of service and 
better health. There still remains on the credit side that un- 
measurable asset happiness, which Comte claims to consist in 
doing the work for which we are naturally fitted. 

III. The Factory Nurse. 

The appointment of this useful officer is an innovation in 
factory life of the last few years, and her advent has been prac- 
tically synchronous with the establishment of factory ambulance 
rooms ; engaged originally to carry out first aid dressings and 
attend to cases of minor accident and illness, her usefulness has 
been found to cover a wider sphere. Before ambulance rooms 



FACTORY NURSE 389 

were established and records were kept of minor injuries, there 
was but little knowledge of the number of injuries which occurred, 
but data for some factories are now available which show the 
work there is for a nurse to do. In twenty engineering factories, 
employing 42,700 workers, there were treated in one week when 
there were no special contributory causes, 9,393 cases, i.e., 
approximately 22 per cent, of the workers were attended, a 
percentage which in one of the factories rose as high as 33-7. 
Slight though each injury may have been in itself, yet every case 
represented an interruption more or less prolonged in the work 
of the factory, and a potential starting point for sepsis and grave 
illness. 

The frequency with which minor injuries occur varies con- 
siderably in different industries ; it is, for instance, less in the 
textile industry than in the engineering, but the occurrence of 
minor medical cases does not vary to the same extent. Of the 
numbers quoted above, from 10 to 20 per cent, were minor 
medical cases, sufficient in themselves to justify the need for the 
services of a trained nurse ; and it is here that the records give 
some indications of the wider duties she is called upon to perform. 
The ambulance room of a large factory tends to become not 
merely a first aid station for accidents, but also a centre to which 
gravitates any one and every one, without social distinction, from 
the manager to the newest apprentice, seeking relief from any 
of the numerous ailments which interfere with daily life ; the 
nurse has a unique opportunity for seeing and advising upon the 
preliminary symptoms, slight and often neglected, of illness, 
manifested in any member of the factory staff. 

Work started in the ambulance room is generally found to be 
but the first introduction for the activities of a capable nurse. 
But she is not to be pictured controlling arterial haemorrhage, 
dealing with frightful burns, or conducting other strenuous 
fights to ward off impending dissolution ; such spectacular 
events seldom do occur and should* not occur at all. Rather she 
should be found investigating the origin of the troubles which 
have brought the workers to consult her, whether they lie at 
the door of the work, in the worker himself, or his home ; 
watching the wage sheets for any steady decline in earnings, an 
indication of lessening efficiency due to failing health ; estab- 
lishing contact with the medical practitioners of the district, 
the hospitals and dispensaries, local nursing organisations, and 
health visitors, or possibly giving short health talks from time 
to time in the dinner hour. Pregnant workers for whom pre- 
natal supervision must be undertaken will be found consulting 
her ; from this follows infant welfare, the feeding and care of 



390 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

children of working mothers ; an industrial day nursery may be 
required or a creche. Cases sent home from the ambulance room 
should be followed up and thd suitability of the home for looking 
after illness ascertained. Information is thus acquired as to 
the housing conditions and social surroundings of the operatives 
which may go far to explain lost time and inefficiency during 
working hours. 

There is no need to emphasise at length the sphere of activity 
of an industrial nurse ; but we feel confident that the establish- 
ment in factories of ambulance rooms by bringing nurses into 
industrial establishments is creating an important means for 
improving the health of the industrial worker. We 'are, how- 
ever, in agreement with an industrial nurse who writes, " industry 
requires a good nurse with a knowledge of social work in addition 
to familiarity with methods of 'public health nursing " (9) ; 
mere training in first aid work for injuries and for sickness is 
inadequate. The nurse comes in intimate touch with the 
workers and has unique opportunities for educating them in the 
principles of health ; and, as the author just quoted says, " we 
must not forget that we cannot move people along the road of 
progress one bit faster than they see the need of being moved." 

The Ambulance Room. The Health of Munition Workers 
Committee recommended (3) the establishment of central 
dressing stations in factories, and made suggestions as to 
structure, equipment and supervision of such stations. These 
recommendations have been embodied in certain Home Office 
Orders (made in pursuance of the powers conferred under 
section 7 of the Police, Factories, etc. (Miscellaneous Provisions) 
Act, 1916) calling for the provision of ambulance rooms in 
certain classes of factories. The wording used is as follows : 

" In every factory to which this Order applies and in which 
the total number of persons employed is 500 or more, the occupier 
shall provide and maintain in good order an ambulance room. 

" The ambulance room shall be a separate room used only for 
the purpose of treatment and rest. It shall have a floor space 
of not less than 100 square feet and smooth, hard and impervious 
walls and floor, and shall be provided with ample means of 
natural and artificial lighting. It shall contain at least 

" (i.) A glazed sink with hot and cold water always available. 
44 (ii.) A table with a smooth top. 

44 (iii.) Means for sterilising instruments. 

44 (iv.) A supply of suitable dressings, bandages and splints. 
44 (v.) A couch. 

44 (vi.) A stretcher. 

44 Where persons of both sexes are employed, arrangements 



AMBULANCE RECORDS 



391 



shall be made at the ambulance room for their separate treat- 
ment. 

'' The ambulance room shall be placed under the charge of a 
qualified nurse, or other person, trained in first aid, who shall 
always be readily available during working hours, and shall keep 
a record of all cases of accident and sickness treated at the room." 

FORM 1. 
Name : Check No. : Shop or Department : 



Date. 


How employed. 


Time of 
arrival 
in ambu- 
lance 
room. 


Surgical. 


Medical. 


Treat- 
ment or 
redress- 
ing. 


Return to 
work or 
departure 
from 
factory 
with time. 


Usually. 


At time 
of acci- 
dent. 


Time of 
accident. 


Nature 
of in jury. 


How 

caused. 


Nature 
of case. 























FORM 2. 

Summary to include all Cases Attended at First Aid 

Posts or Ambulance Room. 
Monthly Records for 19 . 



Date. 


Cuts, 
etc. 


Septic. 


Bruise. 


Burn. 


Sprains. 


Eye. 


Re- 
dressing. 


Illness. 


Total. 


Re- 
marks. 
























2*. 






















3. 






















4. 














_ 








5. 






















6. 






















7. 






















8. 






















9. 






















10. 






















etc. to 






















31. 






















Totals. 

1 





















This summary should not take the place of records, but should act as a 
speedy and complete method of summarising all accidents. The card 
record should be kept in addition and a stroke entered on this form as 
each case comes under observation. 



392 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

The provision here called for is not merely structural, stating 
the minimum requirements of an ambulance room, but also 
personal in relation to the attendants. Further, the keeping of 
records of cases treated is definitely demanded. No standard 
method of record-keeping has yet been laid down, and records 
are often incomplete ; the reason for this is probably lack of 
appreciation of the value of records when used with intelligence. 
The forms here given show how the results of treatment may be 
ascertained ; and a nurse who is watching her cases may get 
valuable information as to an undue frequency of accidents of a* 
certain kind, or in one particular department. The card system 
is undoubtedly the best form of record, a separate card being 
started for each worker on engagement. A specimen card is 
here shown on which the subsequent history can be noted until 
recovery is complete. The nurse then has immediately before 
her details of the occurrence of previous accidents or sickness, 
and if the cards are kept in alphabetical order, the time involved 
in finding the one required is inconsiderable. Information can 
be extracted from the cards as any special point comes up for 
investigation. Advantage may be gained by also keeping a 
summary of cases occurring each day, and for this purpose a 
record sheet such as is. shown may be used (8). 

The procedure the nurse will adopt in relation to treatment 
will vary with her training and the directions given her by the 
factory medical officer. She should, however, always establish 
close touch with outside medical services ; in some cases nurses 
effect co-operation by sending cases with a note to the out- 
patient department of the nearest hospital, or to a panel doctor, 
asking for help and advice ; the patient returns to the nurse 
who carries out the treatment indicated say, fomenting a septic 
wound for a week and is then perhaps sent for further advice. 
In this way busy out-patient departments and panel doctors 
are relieved of routine dressings, and the patients avoid long 
waits for treatment. The latter point, if the injury does not 
incapacitate the operative from work, is an important one, as a 
visit to a crowded out-patient department usually takes up at 
least half a day. 

The factory nurse and the ambulance room were originally 
called into existence for treating accidents ; but, as w have said, 
many medical cases come under observation as well. Usually 
a supply of drugs and remedies are kept for such cases ; but 
care must be exercised in limiting what is provided. Any desire 
on the part of the nurse to be supplied with such drugs as 
phenacetin, chlorodyne, caffein, antipyrin and aspirin must be 
resisted. Only a few simple drugs should be stored, such as 



FIRST AID 398 

castor oil, sal-volatile, ginger, bicarbonate of soda, and essence 
of peppermint. The nurse should be taught to rely on her own 
common sense, giving advice and not drugs ; she must remember 
that headache or abdominal pain may be the first signs of serious 
trouble, and that drugs, administered to give immediate relief, 
may mask symptoms required to establish a diagnosis ; and 
similarly that a gargle may temporarily remove from the throat 
signs of diphtheria. She will then be more ready to refer cases 
to her medical superintendent at that early stage, the importance 
of which is coming to be more and more appreciated. The duty 
of a nurse is not to provide temporary relief for every ailment by 
the promiscuous exhibition of drugs, but to seek out the under- 
lying causes of the troubles she is consulted about, and ascertain 
whether these causes lie with the work, the worker, or home 
surroundings. 

First Aid Organisation. The Health of the Munition Workers 
Committee in the memorandum (3) already referred to, pointed 
out that in addition to an ambulance room, local first aid boxes 
were needed in big factories, placed in the workshops. Opera- 
tives employed on piece work grudge the time half an hour or 
twenty minutes involved in going to a central dressing station 
to have some apparently trifling scratch or abrasion attended 
to, but will readily allow a fellow worker to apply a simple 
dressing. In small factories where the numbers employed 
hardly justify the expense involved in providing an ambulance 
room and the services of a nurse, the first aid boxes have to do 
duty alone. The method of treatment to be adopted through 
these boxes has received careful consideration, and , aseptic 
dressings are now called for. The wording of the Home Office 
Order in relation to them is as follows : 

" In every factory to which this Order applies and in which 
the total number of persons employed is twenty-five or more, 
the occupier shall provide, in readily accessible positions, 4 First 
Aid ' boxes or cupboards in the proportion of at least one to 
every 150 persons. 

' The number of ' First Aid ' boxes or cupboards required 
under this provision shall be calculated on the largest number 
of persons employed at any one time, and any odd number of 
persons less than 150 shall be reckoned as 150. 

" Each ' First Aid ' box or cupboard shall contain at 
least : 

" (i.) A copy of the ' First Aid ' leaflet issued by the Factory 
Department of the Home Office. 

" (ii.) Three dozen small size sterilised dressings for injured 
fingers. 



894 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

" (iii.) One dozen medium size sterilised dressings for injured 
hands or feet. 

" (iv.) One dozen large size sterilised dressings for other 
injured parts. 

" (v.) One bottle of eye drops, and 

" (vi.) Sterilised cotton wool. 

" Each ' First Aid ' box or cupboard shall be distinctively 
marked, and if newly provided after the date of this Order shall 
be marked plainly with a white cross on a red ground. 

" Nothing except appliances or requisites for First Aid shall 
be kept in a ' First Aid ' box or cupboard. 

" Each ' First Aid ' box or cupboard shall be kept stocked 
and in good order, and shall be placed under the charge of a 
responsible person who shall always be readily available during 
working hours. 

" A notice or notices shall be affixed in every workroom 
stating the name of the person in chaige of the ' First Aid ' box 
or cupboard provided in respect of that room." 

The instructions issued in the leaflet referred to above 
run : 

FORM 923. FACTORY DEPARTMENT. 

October, 1917. MJ HOME OFFICE. 




FIRST I P""" AID. 
TREATMENT OF MINOR INJURIES. 

The following suggestions have the approval of H.M. Medical In- 
spectors of Factories in rendering first aid in factories and workshops 
so as to prevent subsequent septic infection or blood poisoning. 

A SCRATCH OR SLIGHT WOUND. 

Do not touch it. 

Do not bandage or wipe it with a handkerchief or rag of any kind. 

Do not wash it. 

Allow the blood to dry and so close the wound naturally ; then apply 

a sterilised dressing and bandage.* 
If bleeding does not stop, apply a sterilised dressing and sterilised 

wool, then bandage firmly. 
If the wound is soiled with road dirt or other foul matter, swab freely 

with wool soaked in the iodine solution t and allow the wound 

to dry before applying a sterilised dressing. 

A BURN OR SCALD. 
Do not touch it. 
Do not wash it. 

* Minute wounds can be efficiently closed by applying collodion. 
t An alcoholic solution containing 2 per cent, of iodine. 



FIRST AID 395 

Do not apply oil or grease of any kind. 

Wrap up the injured part in a large dressing of sterilised wool.* 

AN ACID BURN. 

Do not touch it, or apply oil or grease of any kind. 
Flood the burn with cold water. 

Sprinkle it (after flooding) with powdered bicarbonate of soda. 
Apply a sterilised burn dressing of suitable size. 

However slight the burn, if the area affected is extensive a doctor 
must be consulted. 



Do not remove any dressing, but, if the injured part becomes painful 

and begins to throb, go to a doctor at once. 
Destroy all dressings which have been opened but not used ; they 

soon become infected with microbes and then are not safe to use. 

EYE INJURIES. 

A Foreign Body. Apply the eye drops, Solution No. l,f to the 
affected eye-ball by means of the camel-hair brush in the bottle. 
Do not try to remove any particle which cannot be brushed away. 
Tie up with a clean handkerchief or bandage. 
Go to a doctor at once. 
An Acid Burn. Brush the affected eye-ball thoroughly with Solution 

No. 2, J 

Then apply Solution No. 1 in the same way. 

Apply an eye-pad and tie up with clean handkerchief or bandage. 
Go to a doctor at once. 

Prevention is better than cure ; therefore, if your work entails danger 
to the eyes, 

Wear Goggles. 

Goggles have saved hundreds of eyes ; thousands have been lost 
for want of them. 

NOTE. Danger from minor injuries arises from blood poisoning 
which is caused when microbes infect a wound. The majority of 
wounds are at first " clean," that is they are not infected with 
microbes ; such infection usually occurs later and comes from hand- 

* This would not exclude treatment by prepared paraffin or picric 
acid. 

f Solution No. 1: Cocaine . . . 0-5 per cent. 

Hyd. Perchlor. . . 1 in 3,000 

in castor oil. 

I Solution No. 2 : Sodium bicarbonate, 15 grains ; distilled water, 
1 ounce. 

Instructions to chemist for making eye drops : Weigh 95 grammes of 
castor oil into a flask capable of holding twice the quantity. Add 0-5 
gramme of powdered cocaine. Warm on a water bath till dissolved. 
While the solution is still warm (but not hot) add one cubic centimetre of a 
solution containing 3-3 grammes of mercuric chloride in 100 cubic centi- 
metres of absolute alcohol. Mix the solutions by rotating the flask. 

About half an ounce, or 15 c.c., of this solution should be supplied in a 
bottle from the cork of which a camel-hair brush is pendent in the fluid. 

[The Secretary of State has issued a general permit to occupiers under 
the Defence of the Realm Regulations, 40 B, to purchase this preparation 
on condition that it is used for the purpose specified and no other and that 
it is kept in the custody of the occupier or of a responsible official nominated 
in writing by him.] 



396 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

kerchiefs or other materials applied to stop bleeding or to wipe away 
blood, and, in the case of eye injuries, from efforts to remove fixed 
particles with unclean instruments. It is better to leave a wound 
alone than to introduce microbes by improper treatment. The con- 
gealing of blood is Nature's way of closing wounds against infection, 
and should not be interfered with. 

Burns and scalds when the skin is not broken will heal if left alone ; 
all that is necessary is rest and a protective covering. When blisters 
form they must not be pricked, except under medical advice. 

Rest is an important aid to healing. A short rest at first allows 
healing to commence and often saves a long rest later. An injured 
hand or finger can be rested in a sling, and an injured eye by a bandage,, 
but an injured foot or toe can only be rested in bed. 

ECZEMA FROM LUBRICATING OIL. 

Dermatitis and eczema from oils and fluids used to lubricate and 
cool metals can best be prevented by cleanliness of (1) the overalls, 
and (2) the skin. All overalls should be washed weekly, and the 
hands and forearms daily in warm water before leaving the factory. 
Lanoline and castor oil ointment (equal parts) applied to the skin 
after washing is a help. When dermatitis and eczema occur washing 
should be stopped arid a doctor seen at once. 

The use of tincture of iodine as a disinfectant for minor injuries 
advocated in these instructions is of considerable importance. 
The majority of minor injuries, if left entirely alone, and only 
guarded from outside infection by the application of a dry 
sterilised dressing, will heal by first intention ; but nothing is 
lost by the use of iodine in every case before applying the dressing, 
and some surgeons follow this procedure. Dr. Mock, for in- 
stance, writes (10) : " My own experience has absolutely 
convinced me that the immediate use of tincture of iodine to an 
injured part by the employee himself or by a fellow employee is 
the most important first aid procedure which can be adopted 
in industry. In 1909, when I first used iodine in every depart- 
ment of the industry with which I was connected, there was an 
immediate reduction of 28 per cent, in the number of infections 
the first month after this plan was installed." Iodine treatment 
is of undoubted value, but of equal value is the -elimination of 
the washing of wounds which "is in itself a minor surgical 
operation requiring technical skill and training if the injured 
person is not to be subjected to unnecessary risk " (8). Elimina- 
tion of washing and the use of sterilised dressings alone reduced 
septic cases by some 80 per cent, when introduced in a group 
of engineering factories. Washing " should not, therefore, be 
included in the first aid treatment, and the removal of dirt 
should be limited to the application of iodine solution which not 
only stops bleeding but also helps to disinfect the wound " (8). 
Other points relating to simple first aid treatment are clearly 



FIRST AID 397 

explained in the instructions reproduced above and need no 
further exposition. 

Workers well drilled on the above lines can render useful 
service to their fellows ; but the service should be organised and 
directed from the ambulance room. 

The success of first aid boxes has not yet been so unequivocal 
as that of the ambulance rooms, partly owing to the fact that 




No. 1. Unsealing a Dressing. 




No. 2. How to Open. 

FIG. 36. 
Reproduced from (8). 

nurses, wishing every case to come to the central station, do not 
encourage their use, and partly because persons trained in older 
ambulance methods can with difficulty be persuaded simply to 
apply a dressing without some preliminary washing of the 
wound ; but in time the first aid boxes should justify themselves. 
The factory nurse should organise the treatment given in the 
workshops, teach the simple methods to be employed, and be 
responsible for the actions of those placed in charge of the boxes. 



398 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

These persons should be members of the factory ambulance corps, 
be trained in stretcher drill, and taught the principles of work- 
shop ventilation and cleanliness. Thus there may be brought 
into existence an organisation of the workers responsible to 
the nurse for the general health of the personnel throughput 




No. 3. Unfolded 
Dressing. 



No. 5. When finished. 
FIG. 36 (continued). 
Reproduced from (8). 



the factory, each member keeping a watch over a group of 
workers. 

In some factories members of the ambulance corps are remu 
nerated to compensate them for any earnings they may lose 
through being called upon to render first aid. 

A note should be made at each first aid box of each case 
treated, which can be sent later to the central station to be 
entered up. At a small factory where there is no central 
ambulance room the notes may be made in a case book 
containing headings similar to those set out above for separate 
cards. 



WELFARE SUPERINTENDENT 



399 



IV. The Welfare Superintendent. 

The duties carried out by the factory medical officer and by 
the factory nurse are purely medical ; but there has come into 
existence recently in large industrial establishments a special 





No. 1. Unfolded Dressing 
for Top of Finger. 



No. 2. How to apply. 
FIG. 37. 
Reproduced from (8). 

department concerned with the welfare and health of operatives 
presided over by a welfare superintendent (also called welfare 
supervisor, labour superintendent, or, in the case of boys, 
apprentice master). The importance of this department in the 
future organisation of industry can hardly be exaggerated. 



400 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

Certain of the duties belonging to it have a direct relation to 
health ; and the person appointed should, where the services of 




No. 3. When finished. 
FIG. 37 (continued). 



a whole-time doctor are not retained, be responsible to the 
management for the work of the ambulance room and the first 




FIG. 38. Application of Iodine'. 
Reproduced from (8). 

aid organisation. This department maintains with the workers 
that personal touch so necessary in human affairs, which busy 
managers must delegate to others. 

Where women and girls form a large proportion of those 



ENGAGEMENT OF WORKERS 401 

employed, the post of welfare superintendent should be filled 
by a capable and intelligent woman, by preference one of good 
education, with sound training in the principles of hygiene and 
of social and industrial life. Where boys and men are concerned, 
a man with similar training and possessing experience in dealing 
with boys should be chosen. The duties to be undertaken by 
these officers will vary in different places, but the scope of the 
work may be gathered from the following suggestions : The 
duties fall naturally under two headings. The first relates to 
obtaining a personnel whose health is fitted for the work of the 
factory ; the second relates to maintaining the personnel in 
health and vigour. Both these groups can again be subdivided 
according to whether activity is outside or inside the factory. 

Obtaining the Personnel. The welfare officer must come in 
touch with the workers on engagement. At some establishments 
the whole question of engagement is entrusted to this officer. 
At others, after sifting out the unsuitable, the remainder are 
submitted to the foreman to pick from. Certain matters must 
be attended to for the work of engagement to be adequately 
carried out. (i.) The officer must be familiar with the industrial 
processes carried on. Advantage is gained if he has familiarised 
himself with some of the processes by performing them per- 
sonally. At one factory at least excellent results were obtained 
by calling upon every welfare officer, before undertaking the 
duties of the office, to act for a period as an operative. The 
familiarity so gained is of inestimable value for grasping the 
principles of accident prevention and the avoidance of poison- 
ing in dangerous processes, (ii.) The officer must examine the 
previous history of applicants for work, and for this purpose 
keep in close touch with educational authorities and labour 
exchanges, (iii.) A register of available houses and lodgings in 
the district must be kept, so that the management can be 
informed of any lack of accommodation and the workers can be 
assisted to find lodgings, (iv.) Transit facilities must be looked 
into and the length of time taken to travel from various districts. 
The need for increasing train service, tram or motor service, or 
for suggesting moderation of factory hours to fall in with existing 
time-tables, must be under constant consideration, (v.) The 
officer must be present when the certifying factory surgeon or 
the factory medical officer conducts his examination and note 
any recommendations which are then made with a view to seeing 
that they are carefully carried out. 

Maintenance of Health. The duties falling under this heading 
are numerous and diverse, (i.) Personal records of each worker 
must be kept in which are noted the places of abode, progress 

i.w. 26 



402 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

in the factory, accidents sustained, time lost and sickness suffered, 
(ii.) Investigation into these records must be made ; otherwise 
their value will be lost. Investigations, for instance, into the 
causation of lost time should go a long way towards diminish- 
ing this cause of industrial worry ; one investigation in which 
factories were first grouped according to the amount of bad time- 
keeping experienced, and then regrouped according to whether 
the welfare work at these factories was considered to be good, 
medium, or bad, disclosed no single case of pronouncedly bad 
time-keeping among the factories where welfare supervision was 
good, (iii.) The officer must establish his position with the 
foremen, and induce them to take a personal interest in those 
who work under them, instead of regarding them as mere animate 
tenders of inanimate machinery, (iv.) The wage system in 
vogue 'at the factory must be carefully studied, whether 
payment is by time, by piece work, by the group system, by 
time and bonus, by premium bonus, or any other plan. Only 
thus can less intelligent workers have explained to them how 
they are paid. The officer must, however, have nothing' what- 
ever to do with fixing the rates of payment, (v.) An acquaint- 
ance is necessary with the principles of canteen management and 
the energy value and suitability of food ; further, attention 
should be paid to the fancies, often local, of the workers in 
relation to food, (vi.) The sanitary conveniences, lavatory 
accommodation, and cloak rooms must be inspected, kept clean 
and tidy, and supplied with soap and clean towels. The actual 
work will lie with others, but the responsibility will lie with the 
welfare officer, who must be prepared to advise his firm as to 
the best structural provision to make for each of these purposes, 
(vii.) The ambulance, rest room, and first aid organisation will 
require supervision, and close touch must be established between 
this department, the factory medical officer, and outside medical 
service, (viii.) The officer must pass through the workshops 
frequently and on the occasion of these visits take note of 

(a) The atmospheric conditions and need for ventilation. 

(b) The temperature, especially when work is starting on cold 

mornings, or at mid-day when the shops may be over- 
heated and stuffy. 

(c) The light, both natural and artificial ; much can be done 

to get windows cleaned and to rectify the position of 
lights which may be so placed as to be causing head- 
aches. 

(d) The posture of workers in relation to their processes and 

the provision of seats or stools, varying in height 
according to the stature of the workers. 



DUTIES OF WELFARE SUPERINTENDENT 403 

(e) The advisability of providing seats where seats could be 
used but are not provided. 

Care must be exerted in carrying out these duties not to 
invade the province of technical control, or even to appear to 
interfere with the prerogatives of the foreman, (ix.) The 
feelings of the workers and their confidence must be obtained if 
the work is to be effective. A means to this end is to be found 
in a welfare committee elected by the workers themselves. The 
welfare officer should be a member, possibly the chairman of 
such a committee, (x.) Where juveniles, especially boys, are 
employed, attention must be given to their continued education ; 
and for this purpose co-operation is needed with local education 
authorities with whom the duty lies to establish classes for 
general and technical instruction. An eye must also be kept on 
the efficiency of any apprenticeship scheme which may have 
been adopted at the factory, (xi.) The officer acting over the 
boys, who is sometimes known as the apprentice master, will 
have certain other special duties to undertake. Since, however, 
these are not part of health questions and can be easily ascer- 
tained elsewhere (4), we do not discuss them further here, 
(xii.) Where mothers of young children are employed, a necessity 
may arise for establishing a creche for these children while their 
mothers are at work. If such an institution be in existence in 
the district, the officer may require to urge the mothers to take 
advantage of its facilities, (xiii.) Matters concerned with 
pregnancy (already dealt with on p. 229) will come within the 
province of the woman welfare supervisor, who may need to 
organise a light employment depot for nursing mothers, with a 
nursery attached, (xiv.) The inauguration of healthy recrea- 
tion, of all kinds must be one of the most important sides of 
welfare work, and this side will grow in importance with the 
tendency to shorten the hours of employment. The organisa- 
tion of social clubs, institutions, girl guides, boy scouts, dances, 
concerts, summer camps, holiday homes, tennis, hockey, cricket, 
horticulture, and lectures form only a part of the work to be 
done in this direction. Recreation may cover the growing of 
vegetables in a few yards of waste ground in a factory, or the 
purchase of a piano to enliven the meal hour ; and may extend 
to the provision of playing fields and institutions for factories 
employing over 10,000 workers, or even the inauguration of 
extensive civic schemes. 

The value of recreation on organised lines is immense. It 
possesses three aspects : (i.) It interferes with Satan's voca- 
tion of " finding mischief still for idle hands to do " ; (ii.) it 
provides mental interest and physical exercise different from 



404 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

those of working hours, and so tends to counterbalance any 
harmful effect due to occupation from muscular strain ; (iii.) it 
promotes through healthy rivalry that esprit de corps upon 
which patriotism is built. Interfactory competitions naturally 
spring up and affiliation develops, until something akin to the 
elastic athletic organisation of a university may evolve. 

Health Committee. We hope what has already been written 
will have made it sufficiently clear that the health of the industrial 
worker, if it is to be maintained, must depend more upon the 
worker himself than upon any one else. No individual can be 
compelled to be healthy. The services of the doctor, of the 
nurse, the welfare officer, and the dentist, the proper use of the 
welfare facilities which may have been provided, and indeed 
every effort to maintain the health of the workers, will fail 
unless the active and intelligent co-operation of the workers is 
obtained. This should be sought for by forming a health or 
welfare committee at an early date. The personnel of this 
committee should be elected by the workers themselves. Once 
elected, the duties, which are numerous, fall under the following 
three headings : (i.) They should be responsible for the main- 
tenance of order and discipline. Here the monitorial system of 
English public schools should be taken as the example to be 
followed, (ii.) Personal grievances, real or imaginary, should be 
referred to and considered by the. committee, (iii.) The com- 
mittee will be the executive authority acting probably through 
sub -committees for organising various recreational activities. 

The committee may be presided over by the welfare officer. 
Indeed, at some factories this will be necessary, at any rate at 
first. A case of an unusual form of welfare committee may be 
instanced. It took the form of a parliament. Every twenty- 
five boys elected a member once every quarter, and these members 
in their turn appointed a prime minister and a cabinet. The 
welfare officer might reasonably become the speaker of such a 
committee. 

Dismissal. No worker should be dismissed or leave the factory 
without the knowledge of the welfare officer. Frequently, 
threatened dismissal of a useful worker, originating from some 
personal quarrel between foreman and workman, has by this 
means been avoided. The quarrel may be adjusted or the 
worker may be transferred to another part of the factory. Some- 
times workers may be leaving on account of ill-health not 
otherwise known to exist, and lightening the conditions of work 
may enable a useful operative to be retained. Or, again, mis- 
understanding in relation to payment of wages may be explained 
satisfactorily. 



WELFARE STAFF 405 

The handing over of the transference of workers or their 
engagement entirely to the welfare officer is sometimes objected 
to by the technical staff ; but there can be no objection to 
reference to the welfare officer of all cases of impending dismissal. 
Such references frequently go a long way to diminish labour 
turnover with its economic loss. 

Staff required. -Perusal of the above suggestions shows how 
intimately the welfare department of any industrial establish- 
ment is associated with the health and welfare of those employed. 
Where the work is well organised its value is quickly demon- 
strated by the diminution in labour turnover or wastage of 
workers, and in better time-keeping. These two matters alone 
effect an economy in production sufficient to justify any manage- 
ment in establishing a welfare department. 

Where 300 women and girls are employed there is work for 
the whole-time services of a welfare superintendent ; and when 
the numbers reach 600 an assistant is required in addition. An 
increase of a further 450, making 1,050 in all, .calls for a second 
assistant ; and every increase thereafter of 600 in the personnel 
calls for a further assistant. 

Where boys are employed, the work, as set out (4), will be seen 
to be more onerous, and 100 boys provide full-time work for an 
apprentice master, who requires an assistant when the number 
employed exceeds 400. Where the duties of the welfare depart- 
ment refer to men and boys, the numbers employed in relation 
to the number of officers may be counted as set out above for the 
case of women and girls. 

Much might be written on the organisation of a welfare depart- 
ment, the scope of its work, and its relation to technical manage- 
ment on the one side, and to trade union activities on the other ; 
but these matters hardly fall within the sphere of this book, 
which is concerned only with the health of industrial workers. 
Enough has been said to show how the welfare department of 
any industrial establishment, working with the factory medical 
officer, the nurse, and the canteen manager, forms an effective 
organisation for watching over the healtn of the employees. 
The management is amply repaid for the cost involved by im- 
provement in the quantity and quality of output ; the workers 
benefit in health and in contentment arising from increased 
capacity for earning wages. 

V. The Dental Clinic. 

Dental clinics were first established in factories to safeguard 
workers manipulating yellow phosphorus when that substance 



406 SUPERVISION OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 

was permitted to be used in the manufacture of phosphorus 
matches ; the fumes of the phosphorus affected those with 
decayed teeth and caused necrosis of the jaw, known as phossy 
jaw. WJben yellow phosphorus came to be used in the prepara- 
tion of some munitions of war, these clinics again became a 
necessity ; and they were also established for workers handling 
T.N.T. because this poisonous explosive set up gastritis 
difficult to distinguish from ordinary dyspepsia due to bad 
teeth. The improved standard of health among the workers 
which resulted fully justified the action taken, and convinced 
the management of the first factory where a clinic was started 
of its immense value, quite apart from the immediate purpose 
for which it was intended. For many years appointed surgeons 
carrying out periodical examinations of workers exposed to risk 
of lead poisoning have, apart from lowering the incidence of 
plumbism, achieved great improvement to the general health of 
the workers under their care by insisting on attention to the 
teeth. These results accord with the increasing attention which 
is steadily being centred upon the value to digestion and general 
health of a healthy condition of the teeth. Pyorrhoea, rheumatic 
arthritis, sore throats and inflamed cervical glands are some of 
the constitutional troubles now claimed to originate in oral 
sepsis ; in addition, inflamed fangs cause toothache and neuralgia, 
which not only result in lost time, but seriously impair the 
efficiency and the working capacity of those continuing at work. 
The importance of food to industrial workers is dealt with else- 
where ; but the advantage of an adequate dietary is lost if the 
workers, owing to the condition of their teeth, are dyspeptic. 
Some employers have recognised this, and have established 
successful dental clinics on factory premises, which can readily 
be done in connection with the ambulance room. Operatives 
appreciate these clinics, for they often find difficulty in obtaining 
efficient dental service, because the consulting hours of registered 
dentists generally coincide with the working hours ; and they 
are compelled to seek unqualified and often entirely unskilled 
help. 

Where such clinics are established the medical officer can 
readily direct applicants for work, as well as those already 
employed, whose dentition requires attention, to obtain treat- 
ment ; indeed, a dental clinic as an adjunct to the work of an 
industrial doctor is necessary to make his work effective. The 
scope of work to be done may be gathered from a statement made 
by Mock (10) that among a staff of 5,000 employees when a 
dental clinic was started, 2,870 treatments were given to 2,707 
patients in the first six months, and 3,383 treatments to 2,843 



INDUSTRIAL DENTISTRY 407 

patients in the next six months. The same author notes that 
at another establishment during the first six months a dental 
clinic was opened 391 employees received treatment ; in the 
next twelve months 6,081, and in the next year 8,502. Such a 
rapid increase clearly indicates that workers fully appreciate 
and make use of a dental clinic. The Board of Education have 
recently dwelt upon the value of dental clinics in connection 
with schools ; there is no doubt that the dentition of adults 
equally requires constant attention. 

The existence of an ambulance room and a trained nurse 
makes the installation of a dental clinic simple and com- 
paratively cheap. The necessary chair and implements must 
be purchased, and arrangements made for the attendance 
of a qualified dentist at definite times. Some firms arrange 
finance so that extractions are free, while the workers themselves 
pay for other treatment ; or the workers may pay for all treat- 
ment. In consideration of the facilities provided the dentist is 
able to fix fees on a low scale. A dental clinic seldom fails to 
be an unqualified success. 

VI. Bibliography. 

1. Report of Poor Law Commissioners on Sanitary Conditions of the 
Labouring Population of Great Britain, p. 244. 1842. 

2. Dilution of Labour Bulletin. Issued by Ministry of Munitions. 
November, 1917, and April, 1918. 

3. " Sickness and Injury." Health of Munition Workers Com- 
mittee. Memo. No. 10. ' (Cd. 8216.) 1916. 

4. Handbook for Welfare Supervisors and Apprentice Masters. 
Ministry of Labour. 19i9. 

5. Collis, E. L. "The Protection of the Health of Munition 
Workers." Journal of State Medicine. 1917. 

6. Collis, E. L. " Welfare Work in Factories." Journal of Roy. 
San. Inst. June, 1919. 

7. Graves, C. A. " The Granting of Certificates of Fitness to 
Children and Young Persons employed in Factories and Workshops." 
Brit. Med. Jour. September 13th, 1902. 

8. First Aid and Ambulance at Factories and Workshops. H.M. 
Stationery Office. 1919. 

9. Wright, F. S. Industrial Nursing. Macmillan & Co. New 
York. 1919. 

10. Mock, H. E. Industrial Medicine and Surgery. W. B. 
Saunders Co. Philadelphia. 1919. 

11. See, also, Collis, E. L. " The Practice of Industrial Welfare 
and Health." Lectures on Industrial Administration. Sir Isaac 
Pitman & Sons, Ltd. 1920. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

I. Introduction. II. The Extent of the Need. III. Development due to 
the War : Artificial Limbs ; Functional Re-education ; Medical 
Disablement ; Occupational Training. IV. Re-education : Psy- 
chological Influences ; The Left Hand. V. Surgical Disabilities of 
the Limbs : Ankylosis and Stiffness of Shoulder Joint ; Ankylosis 
of Elbow Joint ; Flail Elbow Joint ; Ununited Fractures of Arm ; 
Limitation of Pronation and Supination of Forearm ; The Hand ; 
Ankylosis of Hip Joint ; Ankylosis of Knee Joint ; Ununited 
Fractures of Femur. VI. Stumps. VII. Artificial Limbs : The 
Leg ; The Arm ; The Hand. VIII. Fitting the Work to the Worker. 
IX. Occupations for the Crippled. X. Disablement from Nerve 
Injuries. XI. Defective Vision. XII. Defective Hearing. 
XIII. Functional Nerve Disorders. XIV. Disablement by Disease : 
Tuberculosis ; Heart Cases ; Sick-pay Difficulties ; Value of Occupa- 
tion ; Industrial Training ; Home Industries. XV. Bibliography. 

I. Introduction. 

ONE lesson learned from the war is that more can be done to 
fit a disabled man to work at a remunerative occupation than 
was formerly supposed possible. The subject had never been 
thoroughly gone into in this country, as, after our previous 
wars, the number of disabled was not sufficient to awake public 
feeling to the necessity for action. Owing to the many nations 
engaged in the war the problem of the disabled is now being 
worked out by each in its own way. Before 1914 the only 
nations with any system of training the disabled were Belgium, 
Sweden and Germany ; other nations, like ourselves, were content 
to deal with the training of crippled children, and to leave those 
crippled in industry, whether by accident or disease, to the cold 
mercies of inadequate benefits. 

II. The Extent of the Need. 

The toll taken by industry every year is heavy, so heavy that 
were it not always with us, the national conscience would be 
aroused just as it is on behalf of the maimed soldier. The data 
given in Chapter VIII. gives some idea of the extent of industrial 
accidents. A census taken in 1918 of civilians in Wales dis- 
closed that one in every 810 had lost one or more limbs. Dr. 
Mock writes from America (1) : " If the casualty list from 
industry could be printed every day in our newspapers the people 
of this country would be appalled at its size. In one year from 
accidents alone it is over four times as large as the entire 



THE TOLL OF INDUSTRY 409 

casualties among our troops on the battle fields in Europe. We 
have no record to show the number who are killed or disabled 
as the result of occupational diseases and diseases partially 
traceable to working conditions, but these undoubtedly are even 
more shocking." The same writer quotes statistical data pre- 
pared by Mr. Riddle, who concludes : " On the basis of those 
figures, it may be safe to assume that the total number of ampu- 
tations suffered by men in Pennsylvania's army in the field of 
war will be considerably less than the total number of amputa- 
tions suffered in Pennsylvania's industries over an equal period." 

The extent of medical disablement cannot be fairly represented, 
but the effect of one disease .alone, miners' nystagmus, may be 
instanced. Dr. T. L. Llewellyn writes (2) on this matter : 
" At any given time since 1913 there have been 6,000 men 
disabled in England by miners' nystagmus. . . . The indirect 
cost to the nation cannot be calculated it includes all the 
suffering and mental worry of the patients, and the effect of the 
loss -of nearly three-quarters of a million tons of coal on the 
general industries of the country. The reduction in family 
income will be followed by a corresponding reduction in the size 
of the family, and the children already born will be thrown into 
the world at an earlier age to help their parents, and will have 
their own chances in life greatly diminished." Add to these 
cases the occurrence among miners in 1914 of 2,772 compensation 
cases due to beat hand, beat elbow and beat knee. The pre- 
valence of these diseases is known because they are scheduled 
for compensation. We can only guess at the effect of other dis- 
eases. D. M. Holman, who has considered the matter, writes (1) : 
" It is a very conservative estimate to state that annually 
250,000 workers are, under present conditions, permanently 
thrown out of employment through accident or preventable 
disease in the United States alone. These men and women 
must be supported somehow. Part of them receive whole or 
partial support under the provisions of the, Workmen's Com- 
pensation Acts, and while this solves in whole or in part their 
individual problem of existence it does so in most States only 
for a limited period, and after six or ten years of idleness, when 
their compensation ceases, they are left in a most pitiful condi- 
tion. . . . This economic waste caused by the apparently 
enforced idleness of this vast army of men and women exceeds 
$100,000,000 a year of added burden, and amounts to not less 
than half a billion dollars annually, a figure that is constantly 
being increased by the addition of a quarter of a million cripples 
each year." 

Steps taken to reclaim disabled soldiers have taught us much. 



410 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

These steps are described in what follows, and indications are 
given of how the same thing can be done for disabled workmen. 



III. Development due to the War. 

Orthopaedic surgery has made great advances in recent years, 
so that cases which ten years ago would have been regarded as 
permanently disabled for life are now by special treatment cured 
in a few months. It was not until 1907 that massage and electrical 
treatment were widely adopted by the big general hospitals in this 
country. Owing to pressure on the beds the system used to be 
to put up fractures in plaster of Paris, and send them to a con- 
valescent hospital for six weeks ; when the plaster case was taken 
off, the man was given some liniment and left to cure himself as 
best he could. In time perhaps he obtained a useful limb, if he 
had the perseverance to go on using the liniment. 

How different was the system developed during the war under 
the guidance of Sir Robert Jones ! Men with bad wounds in 
their limbs were sent straight to special orthopaedic hospitals, 
where they were attended to by specialist surgeons provided 
with costly apparatus. 

It is now proposed that the orthopaedic hospitals which are 
carried on by the Ministry of Pensions should be taken over by 
the Ministry of Health for civilian cases when their use by 
pensioners ceases. The system of motor ambulances which is 
being set up throughout the country by the Red Cross Society 
and St. John Ambulance Association should remove all difficulty 
in taking any accident requiring orthopaedic treatment to a 
special hospital, even from a remote country district. Massage 
and electrical treatment after orthopaedic operations are now 
considered so important by the Ministry of Pensions that centres 
have been established in big towns with clinics in small surround- 
ing towns ; men are thus able to get treatment without having 
to travel many miles. The results obtained are remarkable 
compared with those of pre-war days. 

Artificial Limbs. Another branch of orthopaedic work which 
has also been developed of recent years is the fitting of artificial 
limbs in special hospitals ; no doubt some of these hospitals will 
be retained for civilian use. This subject never received adequate 
attention before the war, and was left too much to instrument 
makers. The fitting of some artificial limbs was so unsatis- 
factory that surgeons preferred amputating at a site where a 
good stump could be obtained, and sacrificed part of the limb 
to do so ; thus they preferred to amputate just below the knee 
rather than just above the ankle. Now, with the excellent 



ARTIFICIAL LIMBS 411 

artificial limbs used, such procedure would not be regarded as 
good surgery. Any attempt at describing fully the advances 
which have been fnade would extend outside the scope of this 
book. Certain principles, however, underlie the construction 
of appliances ; these have been formulated (3) by Amar as 
follows : 

" (a) To devise prosthetic appliances which can be firmly and 
strongly attached, without impeding the movements 
involved, or those of other articulations ; 

" (b) To adapt these appliances, in respect of weight and 
dimensions, to the strength of the stumps ; 

" (c) To fit appliances for the upper limbs with an organ of 
prehension which will permit of protracted and varied 
employment. 

" These threefold conditions guarantee strength, simplicity, 
and a good output in prosthetic appliances, resulting in the 
always desirable employment of human energy in professions to 
which it might have seemed that the war cripple could never 
gain access." 

The appliances now supplied for upper and lower limbs are so 
ingenious that many of the men are quite able to carry on their 
previous trades. In one ease a man with a steel appliance for 
the arm seemed to have been specially meant for feeding a 
circular saw in a brush factory ; if the steel end did happen to 
get caught in the saw, no question of compensation arose and 
no report of an accident had to be rendered to the factory 
inspector. 

Functional Re-education. It is now realised that besides the 
accurate- fitting of an artificial limb a special course for re- 
educating the muscles working the stump is required, and 
several limb-fitting hospitals have been established. At the 
Prince of Wales' Hospital for Limbless Sailors and Soldiers at 
Cardiff a special garden has been prepared with uneven paths 
and obstacles so that men can train themselves in overcoming 
difficulties. 

Medical Disablement. In the first two years of the war about 
66*5 per cent, were discharged disabled as the result of wounds 
and the remaining 33-5 per cent, as the result of disease ; but as 
the war continued and was carried on in unhealthy climates, and 
also the necessity arose of calling up older men, the number of 
those discharged as disabled by disease rose considerably. 

Those disabled by wounds attract more attention, and perhaps 
receive more sympathy, than those disabled by disease ; yet 
the latter are often more to be pitied. A man who has lost a 
limb from wounds may enjoy perfect health for many years and 



412 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

rightly be received as a hero wherever he goes ; but the man who 
has valvular disease of the heart, nephritis, neurasthenia or 
debility following malaria is constantly feeling out of health, 
and in some cases his life may be shortened in consequence of 
his disability. Any scheme for helping must provide for those 
who are medically as well as for those who are surgically disabled. 
Medical disablement arises in civil life from the ordinary risks 
of disease ; influenza, acute rheumatism, pneumonia, may leave 
a man quite unfitted to follow his previous occupation, while the 
anxieties associated with industrial life are a potent cause of 
neurasthenia. 

Occupational Training. In cases where a pensioner's disable- 
ment prevents him following his pre-war occupation provision 
has been made to train him for a fresh occupation. It is found 
that 80 per cent, of war cripples can be trained to carry on a 
trade without special equipment, or by one man helping another ; 
and that the remaining 20 per cent, may require some special 
provision at factories. As employers may not be inclined to 
accept the latter, Government factories for providing them with 
special employment on the lines of the Lord Roberts Memorial 
Workshops may be necessary ; these factories should here- 
after be maintained for disabled civilians. A man should 
always be encouraged to resume his previous occupation in which 
he may have spent years in acquiring valuable experience ; and 
the ways by which limbs adapt themselves functionally if trained 
should be explained to him. 

The Ministry of Pensions have provided convalescent centres 
for the concurrent treatment and training of pensioners unfit to 
follow their pre-war occupations, or only able to do so with 
diminished earning capacity. A man, having been recommended 
for concurrent treatment and training, is sent to a. centre and 
given an opportunity of seeing the various courses of training, 
and of selecting one for which he may be considered suitable by 
the medical officer. The training given is in general preparatory 
to a course of training of the same kind under the Ministry of 
Labour, when the man no longer requires treatment. At these 
convalescent centres ample provision is made for treatment 
rooms, workshops, and lecture rooms ; the comfort and amuse- 
ment of the men are provided for by common dining rooms, 
dry and wet canteens, recreation rooms and libraries ; there are 
also facilities for outdoor games. The training is regulated 
according to a man's physical ability, as determined by the 
medical officer, and in all cases treatment is considered to come 
before training. 

Concurrent treatment and training are also carried out for 



RE-EDUCATION 



413 



men living in their own homes in some large towns where 
orthopaedic centres and municipal technical schools exist. 

Cases of tuberculosis are dealt with in training colonies under 
the Ministry of Health ; several colonies have been started 
where outdoor work is the chief feature. 

For men not requiring further medical treatment, arrange- 
ments are made with the Ministry of Labour, Ministry of Agri- 
culture and Fisheries, and the Board of Education. 

The Ministry of Labour, in addition to arranging for industrial 
training, also by their Appointment Department arrange for 
professional and commercial training. 

The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries arrange for training 
in dairy work, horticulture, market gardening, forestry, poultry 
farming and bee keeping. 

The Board of Education arrange for training men as teachers 
in elementary schools. 



IV. Re-education. 

Nature has a wonderful way of adapting herself to circum- 
stances. Re-education of the disabled should be directed to 
assisting nature in her efforts to make functional adaptation as 
perfect as possible. It should aim at making the disabled 
person a good wage earner, and an occupation should be chosen 
for which the disablement is the least handicap. For, as the 
Gilbreths, who have given much study to the question, put 
it (4), a cripple is not a cripple " during the period that he is at 
that work the performance of which is not affected by the mutila- 
tion." What this means to the disabled can only be estimated 
by noting the joy a lame lad takes in swimming, a form of 
exercise in which his short leg is no particular drawback. 

Psychological Influences. Attention must not be paid exclu- 
sively to the local condition, but central control must also 
receive attention. Petrol and the magneto make the motor 
work, not the oil that lubricates the crank shaft. A man may 
receive massage and electrical treatment, but mentally he may 
be lethargic ; he may have no wish to get well quickly ; he is 
content with his compensation, sickness pay, or treatment 
allowances, and idles away his time smoking cigarettes, attend- 
ing race meetings, football and cricket matches, long after the 
time when another man with the same disability returns to work. 
The latter perchance has a wife and family to maintain, and 
necessity speeds up the cure. In Italy, where compensation for 
an injury is paid in a lump sum, men return to work quicker 
than in other countries where compensation is paid weekly. 



414 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

The length of time which elapses before a man returns to work 
bears a distinct relation to his receipts from compensation and 
one or more clubs. Some men are actually better off when on 
the sick list than when at work. A married man, the needs of 
whose family compel him to resume work before he is completely 
cured, is speeding up the cure and functional adaptation. 

The rapidity with which compensation cases improve after 
their suit has been settled in the courts has often been noticed. 
Some cases are beneficially affected by relief from anxiety ; but 
in others there has been wilful prolongation of the symptoms- 
pending the decision of the court. Therefore, where a man has 
exceeded the average time required to recover from his disability, 
he should appear before a medical board assisted by a trade 
expert, entrusted with the duty of determining whether treat- 
ment is on the right lines, and whether, if he cannot resume his 
usual occupation, he can do some form of light work which would 
improve his mental and bodily condition. 

A medical board with experience and technical knowledge 
would have the advantage over a county court judge, who at 
present decides these cases ; they would often discover some 
real cause, possibly a psychological one, for the delay, which had 
escaped the notice of the man's medical attendant, and be able 
to suggest how by a slight operation or some other procedure 
recovery could be effected. 

A man may suffer some anatomical loss, and yet in time may 
recover his industrial capacity. A man lost half his left hand 
including the third and fourth fingers in 1914, and as a high 
standaid for a soldier was then required he received his discharge. 
Later, under the Military Service Act, he was called up and 
posted to a labour company where he was employed with a 
spade. His hand and forearm became so developed that he 
could work as well as any other man. He has a fixed pension 
for life of 85. (eight shillings) a week. Such a case illustrates the 
difference between fixed pensions for war wounds and com- 
pensation for industrial accidents. The pensioner with a fixed 
pension cannot have it reduced, however complete functional 
adaptation is. The workman receiving compensation, on the 
other hand, is liable to have his case reviewed from time to time 
with a view to reduction ; and has further before him the fear 
that any improvement manifest upon which a reduction will be 
based may prove to be temporary and not permanent. 

The Left Hand. Training of the left hand when the right is 
disabled should be commenced as soon as possible. However 
ingenious an artificial hand may be, it can only perform a lew of 
the functions of the real hand. Men can be trained to write 



SURGICAL DISABILITIES 415 

with the left hand so that their writing cannot be distinguished 
from that of the right hand, but to do so some special training 
is required. 

M. Tamenne, a Belgian who has had considerable experience 
in teaching men to write with the left hand, says (5) the man 
should : 

(i.) Place his forearm comfortably on the table so as to 
fatigue the hand as little as possible ; 

(ii.) Practise writing between lines about 3-5 mm. apart ; 

(iii.) Place the paper in a sloping position slightly to the left ; 

(iv.) Try from the very beginning to give the usual slope to 
the letters ; and 

(v.) Always take care that the hand is immediately below the 
point at which he is writing. 

But while writing with the left hand is a subject which has 
received special attention, the part the left hand is going to play 
in the man's future career should also receive individual atten- 
tion. A man can learn to shave himself, tie his tie with the 
assistance of his teeth, open a pocket knife, use a saw or hammer, 
or some of the special tools he may require at his future trade. 

It has been strongly advocated that children should be trained 
to use both hands, so that they are prepared in the event of an 
accident to one hand ; but in an experiment made by the 
Japanese of training a number of children to use both hands 
equally the result was not satisfactory. No child trained in 
this fashion was ever so adept with either hand as a right- 
handed or left-handed child, and the results obtained were not 
proportionate to efforts entailed. The factor of necessity was 
missing in these children. 

V. Surgical Disabilities of the Limbs. 

Ankylosis and Stiffness of the Shoulder Joint. If mobility of 
the scapula is retained total ankylosis at the shoulder joint may 
not seriously interfere with most trades provided the angle of 
fixation is favourable. The most favourable position is that of 
abduction at 60 degrees with a slight flexion. In such a position 
elevation can take place through the scapula so that brushing 
the hair is possible. For some occupations a fixed shoulder is 
not a serious disability. Thus, for example, little inconvenience 
would occur in the case of a worker at a bench, a typist, a post- 
man ; but the disability would be serious for a house painter or 
an electric light fitter. For these latter a change of occupation 
would be necessary. 

Many cases of limitation of movement at the shoulder are due 



416 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

to adhesions and tend to improve rapidly if the subject resumes 
work. Compensation in these cases should not be continued too 
long, in the man's own interest. The length of time men are off 
work after a dislocation of the shoulder varies a good deal. In 
some cases, age, or latent disease, may cause a simple sprain or 
contusion of the shoulder to be followed by a periarthritis, which 
may cause considerable stiffness and require prolonged treat- 
ment ; in others, the man drawing compensation and sickness 
pay may absolutely neglect to carry out any treatment himself 
and so prolong the case unduly. In civil practice, adhesions at 
the shoulder joint are a common cause of prolonged absence 
from work ; they can be avoided to some extent by early passive 
movements. 

Muscular wasting, which occurs when a joint is kept immobile 
for a prolonged period, often does not receive sufficient attention. 
It has been found advantageous before breaking down adhesions 
at a joint to restore the muscular activity by massage and 
electrical treatment, so that the patient has power to carry on 
movements afterwards. 

Ankylosis of Elbow Joint. The most favourable position for 
fixation of the elbow joint is at a right angle or at an angle of 
70 degrees. A man can then feed himself and use tools, whereas 
if fixed at an acute angle, viz., 30 degrees, he is severely handi- 
capped. But to enable a man to follow his previous occupation 
of milking cows it has been found necessary to set the elbow at 
an angle of about 135 degrees. 

Flail Elbow Joint. A large number of elbow joints had to be 
excised during the war ; many of these are flail-like unless pro- 
perly fitted with an appliance. A hinged appliance is necessary in 
these cases, but such appliances are difficult to keep in position 
when the condyles of the humerus have been removed. A 
hinged leather appliance which laces on the full length of the 
forearm and arm is in some cases quite satisfactory ; but it is 
often necessary to use an appliance which can be fixed at what- 
ever angle is required for the working hand. 

A fixed joint obtained by surgical means in some cases gives 
a more useful limb. This is done by inserting the lower end of 
the humerus between the bones of the forearm and fixing with 
a transverse bone peg, or by fixing the bones of the forearm to 
the humerus by lateral bone grafts. 

Ununited Fractures of Arm. Ununited fractures of the 
humerus, which some years ago used to cause permanent dis- 
ablement, are now successfully treated by the step cut operation, 
or by a sliding bone graft ; thus a useful arm is obtained. 

The use of bone grafts for joining fragments where there has 



SURGICAL DISABILITIES 417 

been a loss of bone does not produce a strong limb, and a man 
must be warned as to the work he is fitted for. Thus a man 
with fractures of the radius and ulna where there had been a loss 
of 3 inches of both bones, had the bones joined together with 
grafts taken from the tibia. These were pointed at each end 
like cricket bails and thrust into the hollow of the shafts of the 
fragments. The result was good and the man was quite fitted 
for light work. Unfortunately he did not understand this and 
went back to his old work in which he had to lift heavy boxes, 
which resulted in fracture of both bones. 

Limitation of Pronation and Supination of Forearm. With 
regard to the position in which the radio-ulnar joints are allowed 
to become ankylosed, occupation must be taken into account. 
In some trades full supination of the forearm may be most 
suitable ; but generally the most favourable position is the mid 
position between pronation and supination. Where a man is 
disabled from following his previous occupation by an unfavour- 
able position the surgeon can as a rule make the necessary 
alteration by an osteotomy of the radius. 

The Hand. In the case of the hand there is really no favour 
able position for ankylosis. If the fingers are immobilised in 
extension they are of little use and liable to injury. If im- 
mobilised in flexion they may serve to act as a hook ; but as 
usually only one or two fingers are fixed in that position they 
prevent the use of the hand in grasping. It may be desirable to 
remove them to gain a more important function of the hand. 

Ankylosis of Hip Joint. If ankylosis of the hip joint occurs 
in the extended position, while walking is easy, sitting is difficult ; 
but this difficulty can be overcome to some extent by the use of 
a special chair in which the seat is cut away on one side so that 
the weight is born on one buttock. The best position for anky- 
losis is one of very slight abduction with the thigh extended and 
very slight outward rotation. If the joint is fixed in flexion and 
adduction with internal rotation, the position of the sound limb 
is so interfered with in walking that an osteotomy may be 
necessary. 

Ankylosis of Knee Joint. Fixation with the knee extended is 
the favourable position for ankylosis except for occupations 
which require mounting ladders or steps. Many cases of fibrous 
ankylosis are so firm that without the aid of X-ray examination 
it is difficult to decide whether they are bony or fibrous. Cases 
of fibrous ankylosis of the knee and other joints have been 
successfully treated by prolonged ionization with sodium chloride. 
By this means the fibrous tissue about the joint becomes softened 
and absorbed. 

i.w. 27 



418 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

Ununited Fractures of Femur. By means of the caliper splint, 
ummited fractures of the upper end of the femur are now success- 
fully treated while the patient is able to walk about. This 
splint consists of a modification of Thomas's splint by which 
the weight of the body is transmitted from the closely fitting 
ring at the top to the ground by lateral iron rods which are fixed 
into the heel of the boot on each side. 



VI. Stumps. 

The condition of stumps is a frequent cause of delay in return- 
ing to work. This may arise from pain in the stump or incom- 
plete healing, both of which may require operative treatment. 
With a painful stump the pain is generally localised in the 
enlarged ends of one or more of the main nerves which can be 
readily felt. When a nerve is divided the axis cylinders grow 
out endeavouring to make connection with the other severed 
end. In time these axis cylinders form a tangle, which is known 
as a nerve bulb. If these nerve bulbs are in situations where 
they are not liable to pressure no painful condition .may arise. 
When once they have become painful the only treatment is their 
removal. Their size can be limited by crushing the end of the 
nerve and applying a catgut ligature (6) ; or by stripping back 
the sheath of the nerve in the form of a cuff, and, having removed 
the denuded portion of the trunk, by covering the end with the 
sheath which acts as a limiting resisting membrane (7). Some- 
times the axis cylinders instead of forming a bulb spread out into 
the surrounding tissues when the whole stump may be painful 
and division of the nerve be required. Pain in some cases is 
due to a neuritis, apparently due to some toxic element, and is 
resistant to treatment. Pain may be due to a small nerve 
having become included in the scar ; it is then very localised, 
and can be cured by excision of the scar. Prolonged and delayed 
healing in many cases follows amputations which were septic, 
due to chronic osteitis of the bone followed by necrosis. A 
troublesome sinus calls for an X-ray examination which may 
disclose the presence of a sequestrum, a piece of shrapnel, 
clothing, or a non-absorbable ligature ; these objects must be 
removed. A scar should be movable and not adherent to the 
bone ; but in the arm, where there is no end bearing weight, a 
large adherent guillotine scar covering the end of the bone has 
not been found to cause inconvenience. 

Stumps tend to shrink progressively. The muscles no longer 
having work to do gradually atrophy ; but the shrinking also 
depends on the pressure of the artificial limb. It may be a year 



ARTIFICIAL LIMBS 419 

before the shrinking ceases, and no further alterations are 
required in the shape of the appliance. The shrinking may 
cause a defective gait, as when the stump of a thigh amputation 
sinks down too far into the bucket. Bony spurs or an occult 
abscess may be a source of pain requiring operative treatment. 
The industrial capacity of the victim of amputation will 
depend on whether the stump is adapted to carry an artificial 
limb, and the requirements differ in the upper and lower limb. 
In the -upper limb the anterior and external surfaces to which 
the appliance is attached are of more importance than the 
terminal extremity. 

VII. Artificial Limbs. 

The Leg. Great advantage is gained in cases of amputation 
of the lower limb by getting the patient to walk about on a 
temporary limb at the earliest reasonable moment, instead of 
'waiting perhaps months going about on crutches while the stump 
consolidates. The muscles should be trained -to their new work 
as soon as possible instead of those which will be required here- 
after being allowed to atrophy in the same way as those not 
required. A man who has got accustomed to crutches finds it 
difficult to do without them when the time comes for him to use 
an artificial limb, so the period of walking with crutches should 
be reduced as much as possible. A temporary artificial limb is 
made by moulding plaster, of Paris bandages round the stump 
so as to make a bucket, and attaching to this a peg leg, which 
may consist of part of an ordinary divided crutch fixed on each 
side in the plaster bandages. The wearing of such a bucket assists 
in the shrinking and consolidation of the stump so that there 
is less probability of the permanent bucket requiring alteration. 

Arguments sometimes used against a temporary peg leg are 
that it leads to an unnatural gait owing to it having a stiff knee ; 
that men who have once got used to a stiff knee feel insecure on 
a movable knee ; and it may be difficult to persuade them to 
take to the use of a full artificial limb which they find heavier. 
But Elmslie considers that if the man finds he can overcome his 
disability better with a peg leg there is no need to press him to 
use a full leg (6). 

The bucket of the permanent limb is made of stiff leather with 
lacing in front to suit the variations in the size of the stump ; 
or carved out in wood, in which case it is more difficult to fit and 
alter when required ; or it is made in duralumin. The Roman 
artificial leg in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, 
London, dating back to 300 B.C., consists of a peg leg on a wooden 
bucket. 



420 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

The Arm. With an artificial leg the object is to enable the 
wearer to walk, whatever his occupation is, but in the case of an 
artificial arm the object is not so simple, as it is necessary to 
consider the man's occupation. Does he want a strong arm to 
use a hammer or a spade ; or does he want an arm to help in 
such work as typing or drawing ? Every endeavour has to be 
made to adapt the artificial arm to the man's trade rather than 
to adapt the man to a fresh trade. 

The Hand. The artificial hand in all cases becomes the 
" left " or least used hand, and account must therefore be taken 
of the movements of the left hand in each trade. The variety 
of different movements required makes it necessary sometimes 
to supply an experimental appliance and vary it according to 
the man's own suggestions. With some artificial hands, an 
opening movement of the fingers is obtained by cords which pass 
up the arm and are attached to bands which pass over the 
- shoulder or round the body ; by raising the shoulder, or inspiring 
deeply, the fingers can be opened, after which they close by the 
action of springs. In the case of amputations through the 
forearm, the method introduced by Putti in Italy of leaving 
finger- like projections at the extremity of the stump consisting 
of muscle and tendons is sometimes very successful. By clamp- 
ing a suitable ring round the projections to which a cord is 
attached movements of the artificial fingers can be obtained. A 
simple magnet fixed on the end of the appliance has been found 
useful in occupations where a succession of nails have to be 
driven in. The nail can be picked up and held in position by 
the .magnet while it is driven in by the hammer. . Another 
useful device is a box with a slotted bottom ; the pointed ends 
of nails placed in this box, when it is shaken, fall through the 
slots leaving the heads of the nails uppermost ; a hammer with 
a magnetised head can be used by a one-armed man to pick up 
nail after nail and drive them into wood as desired (4). 

A magnetic hand, invented in Germany, consists of an electro- 
magnet by which tools are held (8). The current is from a 
portable battery or from the factory supply, and contact is 
made by the other hand or foot. The apparatus has not come 
into general use as it is clumsy and requires tools specially fitted 
with iron handles, while the cost of the current is a considerable 
item. 

VIII. Fitting the Work to the Worker. 

Skill in surgery and ingenious mechanical appliances can do 
much to convert a cripple into a useful operative. But justice 
would not be done to the subject of reclamation or to the disabled 



WORK FOR THE DISABLED 421 

if attention were not drawn to the latent possibilities of fitting 
the work to the worker. The instance of the magnetic hammer 
given in the previous section is only one of many devices invented 
by Gilbreth (4) and by Amar (3) for this purpose. Special seats 
may convert legless men into useful workers. Typing machines 
and cash registers may be modified and heavy hammers fitted 
with special grips for use by the one-armed. In fact, what has 
been said in Chapters V. and XVI., with reference to making the 
pegs of occupation round for the workers to fit into, applies 
doubly to the disabled. Where the will to do this exists, the 
result can be attained ; and Mock states (1) that " one concern 
reported that it employed all legless and one-armed men who 
applied and that it had carried out this policy for five years. 
To-day forty such men work here. Five of these have advanced 
to the position of foreman, one to a manager. Their reasons for 
favouring this type of man were purely business reasons and 
can be stated as follows : 

" (1) Lessens labour turnover. These men hesitate to change 
jobs more than do the able-bodied. 

" (2) Make more loyal employees. They appreciate the 
opportunity given them to work in a world that has heretofore 
tried to place them on the scrap heap. 

" (3) Lessens troubles from labour agitators because of 
loyalty. 

" (4) Have a greater output. They stick closer to the job, 
do not move about the plant as much as one with two legs. 

" (5) Are more punctual and have less absenteeism. As a 
rule they take a more serious view of life, do not use alcohol, 
stay home of nights, and avoid exposures that lead to 
sickness. 

" (6) Take a pride in their accomplishments. The reaction 
from those days when they thought they were cripples makes 
them strive the harder to make good. As one of them said : 
' It takes a lot of extra effort at first to overcome your handicap, 
and then when it is overcome this extra effort ought to push 
you away ahead of the other fellow. . . . The handicapped man 
who has overcome his condition and made good is never a 
4 cripple.' ' He has overcome a difficulty, and " difficulties are 
the things that show what men are." : 

s 

IX. Occupations for the Crippled. 

Men who have lost a leg can obtain work more easily 
than men who have lost an arm. Thus the following 

* Epictetus. Bk. I., Ch. xxiv. 



422 



s? 

I 

a 



' S 

o 



si 



RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

gt 1 * I I Mil 

O! ^ W c3 

* &&'& -2 



Imnm peri 
' training. 



^ I 8 



?3 



f 



fl 



ajio 

fS 

..2 o s 

BS \s 

n 

i 



|S1 ii 

^6 H 2 I 

ii ii 

5 H^ -d g 



^S^^S 

S^^^-J 
fl [ i" 



tl 



' 




I-I1 

3^ |-f 14 

- 



po 



O O 



.? ajg 
O OHJ 






ll 



l 

1 



^^ d 

11 i 

S<M $H 



,3 






i 

1& 









i 

1 
1 


1 

o 
c 
fi 


. . . . . . .| bcw .a .... 

S 55 .a 

O cS fl 

. .1 . < , f 41 t i 

J 9 1 Hi Pi! 1 

iii lift 

2 g^ g Sgl|-Ss| S g ^S'3| 
gfc-fcS f^ ^og<ip^ ^^gpq ^B WQS 

! ^ cqpq pqpq 



WORK FOR THE DISABLED 



423 




lfiil 

! 



0> 

5>C 

& 
fi 




;*r 43 

1-1 " i + j r w r^ - 

a ft-S^ g 0,5 

O'Tg W)^ 0) . 

1^:1^ 
l^fSl-l* 

' -' & 



"S *o ^ eo o> ^n' " 

aafgfMll 

illillfail 

; *i^llpfi 

a> ?<< flrdV P-g 3 be 

SB'iIlfS 




o 



SSS 



IBS 

oq 
d 



siallf 

6 i6j 




1 1 



I 00 

B O 



be a 1 ! 

I I 1 

I a 

a 




424 



RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 



d 




ffell^il 






p|ll||l| 

i|t*1 SlJ 

<2-S-i fc 3 OtSw 









aT|S^8t fl J* 






1 



d ^H 60 







w 



i t 












!| 

t 



"8 

II 
6-5 





sa 



IS 



OJ O! 

^HrC 







Ir 



S| 



^S g 
111? 



S 





l 



i 




- 





















WORK FOR THE DISABLED 



4-25 




.2 

i! 




i ^ 

r t" 

^ Us. 

Sl.Bg|, 

Illlll 



dri 



o ^ 
eu S 

GO 4^ 

P 



3*% 



'Z 3 ^ 
3J.9 S 



c8" o 














MS! I* 


$1 





go 


G.S.W. abdomen. 
Loss of right leg G.S.W. right thigh. 
Organic heart disease. 
Blindness. 


G.S.W. right elbow. 
Blindness. 
Left leg amputated right leg amputated, 
Left leg amputated. 

L 


t Loss of right leg G.S.W. jaw G.S.W. L 


.2 

i 

^a- 
3^ 
5 1 

o f 

SSi 

S^H 

N&i 

OQGO ; 

6d^ 


Amputation left arm G.S.W. back. 
Amputation left leg. 


Wound right leg myalgia fractured i 
G.S.W. hip shell-shock G.S.W. left 
G.S.W. metacarpus and tarsus neph 
sight of one eye G.S.W. hand and s 
V.D.H. gastritis and heart affectior 


forearm aortic and mitral neuras 
choroiditis G.S.W. mouth and back. 
General poisoning. 


G.S.W. head shell-shock G.S.W. right 


g, gives some indication of occupations f 
exhaustive ; and no one must conclude f] 
dgh, or hairdressing to those afflicted wit! 


















fl *^ 






03^ 






. 






'3 J2 ^ 




V. 


,A 






rH 


,;. 




rH 




r^ 


""" ^^~* "^9 






22 







C^ O <D 


ii il 


| | 


||f 


di 

S fl 


II 

CH O> 


g 


r-*4 


1 


03 & 


S, o 


1 1 1 , 


T^ ^ 


S <=> 


o fe 




CN1 


1 


8 


M S 


a s 


^'"''-H 1 


^a 


a^ 


<M 






W 4J ti 


CO 


CO O 


^ O eg 


00 <o 


COrH 


3 







O Q.^ 

o MH d 




05 


s& 






CO 






3: 






. , . 








n 


t 


41 t 




O 










M 




|fi[ 




1 ' M ' 


p 


3 






p 




|||c 




^ s 


p 
p 


I 






;9 







P>| 

.-^ H 

II s! 
^!i 

2-SSg 

J3 8 c c6 
EH-S.15 g 

<D P S 
O 03 tM 



426 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

occupations have been adopted by, men discharged from the 
army : 

Men who have lost a leg : 

Bootmaking. Industrial work Postal. 

Caretaker. (sundry). Printing. 

Chauffeur. Liftman. Railway work, varied. 

Domestic ser- Light duties at pithead v Road work. 

vice. (for miners). Tailoring. 

Electrical work. Lodge keeper. Telephone attendant. 

Gateman. Milker. Telegraphy. 

Groom. Packer. Timekeeper. 

Hall porter. Painter. Vanman. 

Men who have lost an arm : 

Clerical. Lodge keeper. Telephone switchboard. 

Commissionaire. Messenger. Timekeeper. 

Gateman. Porter. Traveller. 

Liftman. Ticket collector. Ward master. 

Scholastic. Watchman. Weighman. 

Men who have lost both lower limbs . 

Tailoring. Watch and clock repair- Basket work. 

Typewriting. ing. Leather work and 

Accountant. Ticket and show-card fancy leather work. 

Picture painting. writing. 

The table on pp. 422 425, taken from Reveille (12) is of 
interest ; it shows in greater detail the type of disability and 
the period of training required for learning a hew occupation. 
Reveille, a monthly journal devoted to disabled ex-service men, 
was published during the later period of the war. It contained 
many 'nteresting and valuable articles on the subject dealt with 
in this Chapter. 

X. Disablement from Nerve Injuries. 

The disablement caused by injuries to the nerves can in many 
cases be removed if treated by an experienced surgeon. Nerve 
suture has been carried out several years after the injury with 
complete success. A man had his ulnar nerve severed by a 
bullet in the retreat from Mons in 1914 ; the wound soon healed, 
and he was employed in an officers' mess where he somehow 
escaped the travelling medical boards and the regimental medical 
officer. He liked his work, and was anxious to continue it, so 
it was not until he was demobilised in 1919 when he claimed a 
pension that his claw hand came under notice and he was recom- 
mended for nerve suture. It may be that he was not really 
anxious to have treatment which- would have raised his category 
and sent him back to the firing line. He was operated on and 
his condition has considerably improved. 



DEFECTIVE VISION 427 

The success obtained with some nerves is greater than in 
others ; thus the musculo-spiral does better than the ulnar. In 
some cases the ends of the nerve may be involved in callous or a 
mass of scar tissue, requiring a laborious dissection on the part 
of the surgeon to liberate the nerve and remove all the scar 
tissue, often a matter of two hours. The ends of the nerve may 
be bulbous, and it may be necessary to stretch the nerve or 
transpose it to get end to end suture. Such operations, which 
require the highest degree of skill and asepsis, can only be under- 
taken where there is an efficient team. 

Suture of the sciatic nerve has produced very good results, so 
that after two or three years men have been able to jump, climb 
ladders, and run with no disability left at all. Success depends 
largely upon the accurate apposition of the different bundles of 
the nerve. 

The public require to have a greater knowledge of what can 
be done in these cases. Ex-service men now understand about 
nerve suture and there is no difficulty in persuading them to 
undergo the operation ; in fact, they ask for it. 

XI. Defective Vision. 

A person with inferior sight can carry on certain trades as 
well as those with perfect vision. On the other hand there are 
trades where the highest visual acuity is required ; in conse- 
quence a man engaged in watch making or gauge testing may 
be disabled for his trade by a slight accident, such as would not 
affect the earning capacity of a farmer or a clerk. 

Eyesight can therefore be graded to the different trades. 
Three main classes are usually adopted : 

(1) Those trades needing ordinary sight: Basket makers, 
binders, caretakers, confectioners, domestic servants, door- 
keepers, dyers, farmers, florists, gilders, grooms, glass blowers, 
grinders, labourers, masseurs, millers, packers, paper makers, 
polishers, porters, shoeing smiths, soap boilers, tanners, umbrella 
makers, washerwomen. 

(2) Those needing superior sight : Blacksmiths, bootmakers, 
brewers, butchers, carpenters, clerks, coopers, cutlers, drapers, 
dressmakers, electricians, furriers, gardeners, glaziers, miners, 
musicians, plumbers, postmen, tailors, tinsmiths, surgical 
instrument makers, turners, weavers. 

(3) Those needing maximal sight : Chauffeurs, diamond 
polishers, embroiderers, engravers, gunsmiths, jewellers, cabinet 
makers, lithographers, locksmiths, masons, mechanics, opticians, 
painters, photographers, plasterers, printers, railway servants- 



428 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

(engaged in the* movement of trains), sailors, sculptors, ship- 
builders, telegraphists, watchmakers. 

A man's occupation must be considered when determining the 
degree of disablement. As a rule the trades requiring the highest 
visual acuity bring in the highest wages. If a man earning high 
wages suffers from diminution of vision from an accident he 
receives* compensation ; he is still able to work at a trade not 
requiring such good vision. If, however, his vision be diminished 
by disease he receives no compensation,* but he may still be 
able to earn a living, provided he can find suitable work. 

The question arises, is the man too old to re-educate and can 
he be persuaded to make a fresh start in life ? By visual 
training it might be possible so to improve the man's vision that 
he could obtain work in a higher class, so that, if incapacitated by 
disablement in his limbs, he might be able to obtain a different 
class of work. 

The results of visual training during the war were in many 
cases remarkable. After the battle of Jutland, when apparently 
anxiety concerning an invasion of this country ceased, a large 
number of young soldiers, category A 1, on the East Coast were 
sent overseas and replaced by men between the ages of forty and 
fifty of category C 1, some of whom came under the observation 
of the writer. Many of these men came from large industrial 
towns inland, where they had worked over twenty years in 
factories, hardly ever using their eyes for distant vision. Even 
going backwards and forwards to the factory they probably 
never required to see more than across the street. On arrival 
on the East Coast a large number of these men could not see the 
bull's eye of a target at 200 yards ; they were quite unable to 
distinguish ships a few miles out at sea, which was supposed to 
be one of their special duties, and it was as well the Admiralty 
maintained the coastguards for watching duties. By a system 
of daily visual training the vision of these men improved enor- 
mously, so that when they went to France twelve months later 
many of them had normal distant vision. 

In this country a soldier who has lost the sight of both eyes 
receives 100 per cent, pension ; for the loss of vision of one eye he 
receives 50 per cent. But one man with one good eye may be 
able to resume his previous work and is not really disabled ; 
while others with one eye may be quite disabled for their previous 
occupation. A chauffeur with one eye cannot accurately judge 
distances and would be in constant danger of collision. A 
one-eyed man cannot be employed on scaffolding where one 

* Diseases in the Schedule to Workmen's Compensation Act are here 
considered " accidents." 



DEFECTIVE HEARING 429 

false step means a fatal fall. Employers are shy of engaging 
one-eyed men ; they think that the risk of compensation is too 
great. In consequence the rate of 50 per cent, is really not too 
high, though there may be cases where a man's occupation is 
not interfered with. 

A man with one eye after about twelve months acquires by 
experience a knowledge which almost replaces the sense of 
" relief " he has lost. The work at St. Dunstan's has shown 
what can be done to enable the blind to lead useful lives ; and 
with the large number of blind civilians in the country there is 
need for more of such institutions. Before the war the principal 
training provided for the blind was for children blinded at birth. 
There were not many places where an adult blinded by an accident 
could be trained ; all institutions for the indigent blind were 
entirely dependent on charity. Men who are quite blind are 
found at St. Dunstan's to get on quicker than those having a 
.small amount of sight ; basket making, boot repairing, carpentry, 
mat making, can be acquired by them in about eight months. 
Blind men living and working together undoubtedly become fairly 
happy, and much could be done for them by special institutions 
where the buildings and grounds can be specially arranged, and 
workshops and recreation rooms specially fitted for their use. 
But there will always be those unfortunate ones among the 
blind who are incapable of being trained and will remain a 
burden to their friends or the State. 



XII. Defective Hearing. 

The number of people who have perfect hearing with both 
ears is not large. This is probably due to damage caused in 
childhood by measles, scarlet fever or adenoids. In examining 
for life insurance, when the hearing of both ears is tested sepa- 
rately it is often found to the person's surprise that his hearing 
is defective in one ear, and many claims have been made by 
soldiers for deafness which has been brought on by an aggrava- 
tion of an existing diseased condition, the extent of which was 
not noted in the rush of examining recruits. There are several 
trades in which loss of hearing gradually results, e.g., riveters 
in shipyards, blacksmiths, coppersmiths, coopers, but such 
men cannot be regarded as disabled. They are quite able to 
carry on their trades and obtain steady advancement. There 
are other occupations, such as that of a shorthand clerk, or shop 
assistant, for which even a slight degree of deafness disables a 
man ; here re-education for another occupation becomes a 
necessity. There are occupations, on the other hand, for which 



430 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

deaf people are p'eculiarly adapted ; an accountant, a typist, or 
a conveyancing solicitor may find an advantage in being able 
to concentrate on his work without being disturbed by noises. 

The onset in nearly all forms of deafness is gradual, and if it 
is recognised early that the condition is one which is progressive 
and cannot be prevented, there is ample time for re-education. 
Training in lip reading for the young is useful, but with persons 
over forty the training is difficult ; in deaf and dumb institutions 
where children are taught lip reading, as well as talking on the 
hands, when they are by themselves they usually prefer the' 
signs to lip reading. Lip reading requires a greater degree of 
concentration than is to be found in most of the working classes, 
and is of limited use. If the speaker happens to have a big 
moustache, the reader has no chance at all. If the speaker is 
in a bad light or a distance off, as at a theatre or public meeting, 
again the reader cannot make out sufficient to follow. Lip 
reading does, however, add to the enjoyment of cinema theatres 
as the performers do really say their parts and they are easy to 
follow under such favourable conditions. 

For many it is not worth while going through the expense 
and trouble of lip reading if a suitable appliance can be found 
to aid them. Although for cases of nerve deafness no appliance 
is of any use, yet cases of middle ear deafness are far commoner ; 
for these electric ear 'phones are very satisfactory and in many 
cases make up the handicap. They have an advantage over ear 
trumpets in that both hands are free, as the 'phone is fixed on 
the head with a light spring. 

The after-treatment of ear cases is recognised by the Ministry 
of Pensions as very important, and a number of aural clinics 
have been established where prolonged treatment can be carried 
out and cases kept under observation ; so that should operative 
interference be required it can be carried out before it is too late. 
In civil life one frequently comes across people with discharging 
ears who do not realise the importance of treatment which may 
prevent meningitis ; every person with a discharging ear must 
be made clearly to understand that neglect of treatment will 
result in defective hearing and that he is always running the 
risk of meningitis. A certain amount of treatment can be 
carried out by the man himself with an india-rubber syringe 
with a fine point, but a really satisfactory syringe for the purpose 
has not yet been invented. The old fashioned glass syringe with 
a thick bulbous end is a dangerous instrument ; there is risk in 
its use ; the end may block the external meatus, when the fluid 
forced up may drive septic material directly into the adjoining 
mastoid cells. 



NERVE DISORDERS 431 



XIII. Functional Nerve Disorders. 

Many so-called " shell shock " cases have never been under 
fire ; it is unfortunate that the name should be applied to these 
cases, as it is a cause of their receiving undue sympathy which 
delays their return to work. Owing to the need for men during 
the war, men who were partially mentally deficient had to be 
called up ; for if one man could escape service by feigning 
stupidity, others could do the same. It was therefore necessary 
to keep such men under observation and make the best possible 
use of them. But the strenuous life of training and the 
attentions of the sergeant-major were often sufficient to upset 
an unstable nervous equilibrium, without the greater disturb- 
ances which were required to upset the balance of normal men. 

Railway spine cases, which used to come before the law courts 
twenty years ago for compensation claims, were undoubtedly 
cases of traumatic neurasthenia, but the condition was so little 
recognised then, that there were usually medical men available 
to give evidence that the man had nothing the matter with him. 
Many cases of functional paralysis of a limb following genuine 
shell shock are now after two or three years being cured by 
psycho-therapeutic means. The results are striking ; it is no 
unusual occurrence for a man to recover the use of his hand in 
a few days and resume work after having regarded his hand as 
paralysed for about two years. Records exist of the occurrence 
of cases of this kind throughout the history of mankin4 ; they 
are the foundation of many miracles ; they account for the 
reputation attached in ancient times to such places as the great 
sanctuary of ^Esculapius near Epidaurus (10), and in modern 
times to Lourdes. As a result these men are keen to resume 
work and are grateful for the treatment that enabled them to 
do so. In civilian life the severer forms of functional disturb- 
ance may not often be seen, but m'.lder forms of neurasthenia 
occur, and will always present a difficult problem in getting 
the patients back to work. It is difficult to tell at times 
whether these men are genuine sufferers, and easy to regard 
them as loafers and shy of work. But it should be possible to 
employ them on graduated work in the open air for pay and 
gradually get them on to suitable work. The question of finding 
suitable work for neurasthenics is more important than training 
them for any occupation they may desire. A man who had 
been blown up in France was under hospital treatment for severe 
neurasthenia for eleven months ; he was discharged cured and 
advised to get some work on a farm. He chose to get work as 
a night porter at a hotel, with the result that in a fortnight he 



432 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

broke down again. The aftercare of severe neurasthenia to 
prevent relapses is important ; but there seems at present no 
public body in the case of civilians to assist them to appropriate 
work, and to help them when they are on the point of breaking 
down. 

Nerve disorders in industrial life may not be frequently named 
as such, but in nearly every case of industrial convalescence 
an important psychological element is present retarding com- 
plete recovery. A sick craftsman (unless he happens to be in 
an unusually fortunate position with" regard to sick and draw 
clubs) is an anxious man. He must resume his skilled work or 
surrender his social position and even slip with those dependent 
on him to within sight of the workhouse. An attempt, while 
slightly indisposed, to keep the pace expected at the factory 
may have precipitated the attack of dyspepsia, muscular rheu- 
matism, or asthma from which he is diagnosed to be suffering. 
As recovery is delayed he sees his hold on his place becoming 
imperilled ; his attention centres on his symptoms and a vicious 
circle is started. The more he thinks of his symptoms the more 
pronounced, they become ; the more pronounced they become, 
the more is his attention directed to them. The presence in 
industrial illness of this constant underlying anxiety is a serious 
influence ; it is most to be found among the better class of 
artizan, and less among the lower grades of labour, since those 
that are down fear no fall. 

An assured position is the preventive measure for these cases, 
but, although this ideal is not practical to-day, much can be 
done by permitting workmen who have been away sick or are 
not feeling up-to-the-mark to work for short hours. Permission 
for such relaxation should be granted after consideration by the 
employment or welfare department. Action on these lines 
would in the long run reduce lost time and cure many obstinate 
cases, the nervous element in which is not fully recognised. 

XIV. Disablement by Disease. 

Many soldiers disabled by heart disease, neurasthenia, or 
nephritis are quite able to do some work, and their cases are 
among the most pathetic seen. They really may try to get 
light work, and failing to get it, as usually happens, they endea- 
vour to make their disability last as long as possible so as to draw 
their treatment allowances. It would really be more economical 
to provide suitable occupations for these men. Many of them 
are so debilitated that whatever treatment they get they will be 
unable to follow their previous occupations. Thus a miner 



DISABLEMENT BY DISEASE 433 

debilitated by severe malaria may never feel strong enough to 
follow his old work, but could do basket work, or cabinet making ; 
there are those with disease of the heart or lungs -who could do 
half-a-day's light work at horticulture, market gardening, 
poultry farming, pig breeding, if such work were organised. 

The case here presented for the disabled soldier equally exists 
for the disabled industrial worker ; here industrial service has 
in many cases contributed to the breakdown, e.g., the miner 
may be disabled through nystagmus, or the sufferer from lung 
trouble by exposure to dust inhalation. National economy is 
not served by paying compensation and leaving these potential 
producers without any outlet for the capacity they still possess. 

Tuberculosis. The case of tuberculosis is dealt with in Chapter 
VI. ; colonies which have been started for reclaiming these 
disabled workers and providing them with a hygienic life while 
occupied in remunerative work suitable for each individual case, 
have proved a great success, and the system might be adapted 
to deal with other diseases. The model colony at Pap worth in 
Cambridgeshire consists of an estate of 350 acres with a sanatorium, 
where men are placed on admission, and a training colony to 
which men pass from the sanatorium on improving in health, 
and learn various occupations. After six months' training the 
men can join the village settlement 6n the estate, where they get 
housing accommodation and the wages of the district. 

Heart Cases. The reclamation of heart cases might be on 
similar lines. Instead of the sanatorium there would be a 
hospital where the exercise tolerance of each individual would 
be determined and endeavour made by graduated work to 
improve it. Heart cases have for many years been treated by 
exercise, e.g., walking up slopes or Swedish exercises ; but such 
have the disadvantage that the man is continually thinking 
about his disease. The various operations of gardening provide 
work graduated to each individual case and of sufficient interest 
to take a man's thoughts off himself. All grades of work can 
be found, from the. sedentary work of pricking out seedlings in a 
greenhouse to digging a measured piece of ground in a certain 
time. 

At present a man with heart disease endeavouring to resume 
his old work is like a fish trying to get up a weir, he tries and 
falls back ; but if the process were graduated, as it is sometimes 
for fish by a ladder, he would in many cases be able to reach 
and ma : ntain the higher level. 

Those who by graduated training only improve up to a certain 
standard could be registered for that standard and told the class 
of work they were fit for. They would then have the chance of 



434 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

joining a village "settlement where suitable occupations would be 
found for them. As Dr. Moon states (11) : " The fact is that 
fairly hard work can be done by many people who suffer from 
heart disease, provided the hours are regular and the work more 
or less the same from day to day and hour to hour, while there 
is no undue sense of hurry in the doing of it. Anything in the 
nature of spurts, which may be almost an essential element in 
some occupations, though the work itself- may not be so intrin- 
sically heavy, should be strenuously avoided ; thus, dockers are 
a good instance of an occupation which involves periodical 
rushes, with, it may be, unduly slack intervals, and that kind 
of thing is bad for almost any form of heart disease, and particu- 
larly for the older and casual workers." 

In such a village colony away from docks and factories, life 
should go on without periodical rushes. 

" Along the cool sequestered vale of life 
They kept the even tenor of their way." 

Many of these heart victims after passing through the heart 
training hospital might prefer returning to their own homes in 
the towns rather than living in a village settlement. They may 
prefer places of entertainment and seeing their old friends ; in 
these cases there is not the same need of village settlements as 
for tuberculosis, where one object is to remove infective persons 
from the towns. 

Sick-pay Difficulties. The working man disabled by chronic 
disease receives as disablement pay 7s. 6rf. a week from the 
National Health Insurance, and may, if he has been provident, 
receive a further sum from his society, but for a man with a 
family such sums are inadequate to maintain them with the 
present high prices. Yet the man is willing and able to do some 
light work if he can only find it. At present if a man drawing 
sickness pay from his society is seen to do any kind of work, 
such as planting potatoes in an allotment, he is at once reported 
and his pay stopped on the ground that he ought to be at 
work. 

The difficulties men have in obtaining light work frequently 
come under notice in workmen's compensation cases, where an 
insurance company applies to a county court judge for the 
compensation to be reduced on the ground that the man can do 
some work. " Some years ago the writer in giving evidence in 
such a case on behalf of an insurance company, stated that a 
man was fit for light work. This led ,the judge to remark on 
the uselessiiess of medical men coming to court and talking about 
light work. The man, who was a ship's fireman, followed a few 
minutes later into the witness box. On going up the two steps 



VALUE OF OCCUPATION 435 

he stumbled, and to save himself, caught hold of the top of the 
woodwork with the hand supposed to be useless. The judge 
noticed this and promptly decided the case against him ; and 
the man, notwithstanding the judge's previous remarks, was left 
with a reduced compensation and the difficulty of finding light 
work. For him there was no transitional stage between idleness 
and the heavy work in a ship's stokehold. If the judge had 
been able to arrange for him two or three hours' digging a day 
for wages when he reduced the compensation, the man would 
have been grateful and would not have endeavoured to make 
the most of his injury, as the work would have enabled him to 
get fit to earn full wages. 

Value of Occupation. Light work with wages is the best 
method of overcoming the lethargic condition of mind and 
muscles produced by a long illness ; it restores self confidence 
and dispels dejection. Many disabled soldiers have had long 
periods of hospital treatment during which they only occupied 
themselves by playing cards and reading the papers. These 
men are difficult to get back to work ; they have lost the will to 
work, and their minds seem to have become clouded. 

Great value comes from starting competitions in a hospital in 
various simple occupations, such as leather work, hearth-rug 
and mat making, which a man can do in bed ; the men get their 
minds diverted from their illness and become mentally brighter 
and more alert. A useful means to keep a man's will to work is 
to find him some suitable occupation in hospital as soon as ever 
he is fit for it. Such occupation might not be of any direct use 
to him afterwards as a means of earning a living, but by exercis- 
ing his mind and his body it will produce a most beneficial effect. 
Something might be done perhaps by propaganda as to the 
advantages of training, by lectures and cinema shows to patients 
in hospital, distribution of illustrated pamphlets and conducting 
parties round workshops or farms where the disabled are 
employed. 

Industrial Training. A point is made in the training work- 
shops at Loughborough of putting a man at once on productive 
work and of not wasting time making articles which will be thrown 
away. This it is found makes a man careful from the first, and, 
with proper supervision, is found to work well. A man is there 
required to put in forty-four hours a week training, and after 
nine to twelve months is able to work for wages as an improver, 
and then after another nine months to receive the full wages. 
That is, a cabinet maker may in eighteen months learn what an 
apprentice used to take six to seven years to learn. The diffi- 
culties with the trade unions are gradually being overcome, and 



436 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

it looks as if concentrated training in well equipped workshops 
would take the place of the old apprenticeship system, as was 
the case many years ago with the training of medical students. 

Many men are anxious to avail themselves of these training 
facilities, but there are others who have not the necessary 
intelligence and grit to make a fresh start in life " one man may 
take a horse to water, but twenty cannot make him drink." 
These men after several years of enforced idleness have lost their 
will to work, and present a difficult problem. Many of them, 
young men living with their parents, are, with their pensions, 
able to manage without doing any remunerative work. But 
what will be the position of these men ten or twenty years 
hence ? Another generation of trained and able bodied men 
will have grown up, and it will be more difficult for the disabled 
to get work than it is to-day, when employers who have not 
forgotten the promises they made at recruiting meetings are 
endeavouring to employ disabled men. 

The question therefore arises whether the State should not 
on behalf, not only of the man,- but also of the national welfare, 
insist on some form of training for the disabled, and so save, in 
years to come, having to maintain these men in the workhouses. 
A man's disablement pension is not intended to keep him in an 
idle state, but to make up any loss he may suffer when in com- 
petition with other workers ; compensation payments for 
industrial disablement should be looked upon in the same light. 
In France, training is obligatory by law in the case of any victim 
of amputation who has a right to a military pension. This 
country has been reluctant to compel men to undergo training ; 
it is thought to be interfering with the liberty of the subject ; 
moreover, even when trained, there may be a difficulty in 
finding employment until the trade unions have modified their 
rules. 

A suggestion has been made that a disabled man who refuses 
to undergo training should have his pension reduced in the same 
way as he does if he refuses treatment ; but it is well to remember 
the different degrees of intelligence among the working classes, 
and that even a reduced pension would not produce the desired 
effect, but rather send the lowest class begging on the streets. 
Some men seem born to be hewers of wood and drawers of 
water in every State, and to have no ambition to do any other 
work. 

It may become necessary to establish medical boards with 
trade assessors to examine men not medically fit to be trained 
and decide what work they are fitted for. It should not be 
difficult for the Ministry of Labour to establish workshops and 



HOME INDUSTRIES 437 

market gardens on the outskirts of our large towns to which 
parties of men only fit for light work could be taken by motor 
lorries, either for a half or a whole day. 

Home Industries. Many of the disabled may be able to work 
if they can do it in their own time, and for these it might be 
possible to arrange work in their own homes. Forty years ago 
in some of the villages in the Midlands, nail making by hand used 
to be carried on as a home industry. Each cottage had at its 
rear a small workshop where the man, assisted by various 
members of the family, carried on the trade, and often on a 
summer evening one would hear the villagers hammering away, 
having spent the heat of the day enjoying themselves. Judging 
from the number of public houses in these villages in those days, 
the men were fairly prosperous till machinery gradually killed 
their trade. 

Among the trades suitable for home industries are tailoring, 
cigarette making by machine, bookbinding, watch and clock 
making and repairing, boot repairing, toy making, leather work, 
basket work, market gardening, and bee keeping. In some 
villages men might like to work together on a co-operative basis, 
and a useful war memorial would be to establish in the villages 
memorial workshops on the lines of the Lord Roberts Memorial 
Workshops. When the disabled of the recent war have passed 
away, there will always be those disabled in civilian life by 
accident or disease for whom such workshops would be useful. 
All available men were called up for service during the recent 
war ; they were graded according to their medical category and 
suitable work in the army was found for them. In the industrial 
war we are now faced with in the world we must increase our 
production to the utmost by again making use of every available 
man ; even the disabled must be reclaimed for industry in their 
own interests and in the interests of the nation. 

XV. Bibliography. 

1. Mock, H. E. Industrial Medicine and Surgery. W. B. Saunders 
& Co. 1919. 

2. Llewellyn, T. L. i4 The Economic Aspect of Miners' 
Nystagmus." The Colliery Guardian. June 4th, 1920. 

3. Amar, J. Physiology of Industrial Organisation and the Re- 
employment of the Disabled. Translated by B. Miall. London Press, 
Ltd. 1918. 

4. Gilbreth, F. B. and L. M. Motion Study for the Handicapped. 
Geo. Routledge & Sons, Ltd. 1920. 

5. Hutt, C. W. The Future of the Disabled Soldier. John Bale, 
Sons and Danielsson, Ltd. 

6. Elmslie, R. C. The After-Treatment of Wounds and Injuries. 
J. and A. Churchill. 



438 RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 

7. Chappie, W. 'A. " Prevention of Nerve Bulbs in Stumps." 
British Medical Journal. April 6th, 1918. 

8. The Electrical Review. January 14th, 1916. 

9. Amar, J. Le Moteur Humain. Translated by E. B. Daniels. 
Geo. Routledge & Sons, Ltd. 

10. Frazer, Sir J. G. Folk-Lore in the Old Testament, Vol. II. 
Macmillan & Co., Ltd. 1918. 

11. Moon, R. O. " Heart Affection* in Relation to the Labour 
Market." British Medical Journal May 8th, 1920. 

12. Reveille. H.M. Stationery Office. February, 1919. 



INDEX 



Accidents, industrial. causation and 

prevention of, 170, 177 
bibliography, 20!> 

distrii>ution of. by period of employ- 
ment, 108, :20:>' 
duty of medical profession in regard 

to, 208 
effect of length of working hours o.n 

f ix>quency of, 106 
eye injuries, goggles for prevention 

of, 187, 189 

eye injuries in granite dressers, 186 
factors influencing frequency of, 105 
fatigue and, 105 

general conclusions regarding, 202 
human factor in, 1 84 
in factories and workshops, tables, 

182, 183 
in fatigue period and subsequent 

period, relationship between, 107, 

190 
in night shifts and day shifts, ratio 

between, 191 
influence of fatigue, 191 
influence of lighting upon, 193, 317 
influence of temperature, 192, 193 
in men and women, comparative 

figures, 107 

multiple, incidence of, 196 200 
night accidents compared with morn- 
ing accidents, 192 
personal factor in, 195 
prevention of, 204 

administrative efforts in, 206 

observation and research in, 204 

reduction of, personal lack of in- 
terest. 206 

safety committees, 207 

safety first. iM)7 

susceptibility, 208 

working clothes, 208 
psychical influences, 193 
rate of, during daylight and artificial 

light, 318 
reaction to environmental influences, 

189 

to new workers, 201 
Accidents, mortality from, compared with 

mortality from phthisis and cancer, 

177 

in butchers, 179 
in coal miners, 180 
in engine, machine, hoilermakers, 

etc., 180 
in miners, 180 
in printers, 178 
in shoemakers, 178 
in wool and worsted manufacturers, 

179 

reported to factory medical service, 
table showing time lost, 385 



Activity and fatigue, 79 

katabolic products of, eanse of fatigue, 

81 

muscular, chemistry of, 87 
Aeroplane works, protective clothing at, 

355 
Age distribution of a life table population, 

56 

incidence of phthisis, 129131, 134 

periods, incidence of cancer rate, 158 

Agricultural districts, occupied males in, 

standardised mortality rate. r>4 
workers, cancer in, mortality from, 171 
Air, chemical composition of. i's;{ 
expired, composition of. 2S,~> 
humidity of, effect on body tempera.- 

ture, 288 
impurities in, 296 

effect on mortality rates, 2!>7 

germs, 298 

inorganic particles, diseases due to, 

300 

relation of lung diseases to fog, 297 
inlets in, ventilation by localised 

exhausts, 310 

movement of, in relation to health, 291 
amount of, required, I'lii' 
katathermo meter for measurement 

of, 293, 294 

physical properties of, 287 
respiratory exchange of, 283 
temperature of, in industrial work, 287 
Air-borne diseases, contraction of, efficient 

ventilation for prevention of, 299 
| Alcohol, physiological effect of, 271 

psycho-physiological results of, 272 
Alcoholic beverages, charm of. 27S 

contrast between industrial and con- 
vivial drinking, 276 
rise of spirit-drinking habit, 274 
use of, by industrial workers, 271 

conclusions regarding, 27t) 
See also under Beverages. 
Ambulance room in factories, 388, 390 
Amputation stumps, 418 
Anaemia and digestive disturbances in 

industrial employment of women, 227 
Ankylosis of elbow joint, 416 
of hip joint, 417 
of knee joint, 417 
of shoulder joint, 415 
Anti-scorbutic factor, 257 
Apprentices, Health and Morals of, Act 

of 1802.. 24 

Argon, amount in air, 283 
Arm, artificial, 420 

loss of, occupations suitable, 426 
ummitcd fractures of, 416 
Artificial lighting. :*:_>.> 
Se? alfto Lighting, 
limbs, 410, 415) 






440 



INDEX 



Asthma due to inhalation of dust particles, 
300 

Bakehouses, legislation regarding, 32 
Basins for washing, 336 
Bathing facilities, 338 
cleaning of, 338 
"cubicles," 338 
douche baths, 338 
drying of clothes, 340 
maintenance of, 340 
soap and towels, 340 
water for, 339 

Baths, public, historical data, 382 
Beri-beri, absence of water-soluble B 

causing, 256 
Beverages, alcoholic, charm of, 278 

contrast between industrial and con- 
vivial drinking, 276 
rise of spirit-drinking habit, 274 
use of, by industrial workers, 271 
conclusion regarding, 279 
physiological effects, 271 
psycho -physiological results, 272 
Blood, physiological characteristics in 

males and females. 223 
Blood-pressure of workers in various 

trades, 290 
Body temperature, effect of atmospheric 

humidity on, 288 
normal, 288 

Boot and shoe making, protective cloth- 
ing for, 355 
Brain, comparative weights for men and 

women, 233 
Breakfast, work before, disadvantages of, 

102 

Brick works, protective clothing for, 355 
Bronchitis due to inhalation of dust 

particles, 300 

Brownlee's method of calculating expecta- 
tion of life, 74 
statistical analysis of phthisis into 

different forms, 139 
Burns, first aid treatment of, at factories, 

394 

Butchers, mortality from accidents, com- 
parative chart, 179 

proportionate mortality from phthisis 
in, 62 

Calories in various foods, table of, 265 
requirements of, effect of cold upon, 

251 
requirements of sedentary worker under 

different conditions of temperature 

and wind exposure, 251 
scale of, in daily food requirements of 

typical occupation, 248 
Cancer and civilisation, 155 
and industry, 154 

bibliography, 175 
chimney-sweeps', 173 
effects of modern civilisation on the life 

of the people, 160 
from Rontgen rays, 174 
industrialisation and, 162 
industrialism, cause of prevalence and 

increase of, 158 



Cancer (contd.). 

(in Germany) by organs and parts, 

according to occupation, 1J1 
in occupations, 167 
in primitive races, low rate of, 159 
in textile industry, mortality from, 

169 
mortality from (table), 156 

in cities according to latitude, 158 
increase of, 155 
in selected occupations, 170 
percentage by organs and parts and 

sex, 167, 168 

regional classification, 163 165 
of skin, coal-distillation products asso- 
ciated with, 173 
rate in England and Wales at certain 

age periods, 158 
in U.S. registration area at age 

periods, 158 
sex ratio of, 163 ct seq. 
social status and, 161 
traumatic causes affecting incidence of, 

174 

Canteens for industrial workers, 261 
construction of, 261 
dinner menus, 266, 268, 269 
management of, 264 
method of payment, 263 
reading box in, 263 
service at, 262 
site and extent of, 261 
the menu, 265 
Carbohydrates in various foods, table of, 

265 

source of energy in food, 244 
Carbon dioxide as a measure of ventila- 
tion, 286 
Cataract in India, prevalence of, 316 

polar, posterior, 316 
Cement works, protective clothing for, 

355 
Certifying factory surgeon, duties of, 

recent developments, 383 
origin of, 378 
present duties of, 379 
Chairs, 347353 
Chemical processes, protective clothing 

for, 355 

Chemistry of muscular activity, 87 
Children, as chimney sweeps, Acts re- 
ferring to, 23 
employment of, Act of 1908 covering, 

37 

effect of, 14 
in eighteenth and early nineteenth 

centuries, 14, 15 
limitation of hours of, legislation 

covering, 27, 29 
relation to high birth and death 

rates, 15, 16 
examination of, by certifying factory 

surgeon, 379, 380 
Chimney Sweeps Acts, 23 

sweeps' cancer, 173 
Civilisation, modern, effects of, on life of 

people, 160 

Climate, effect on diet, 253 
Cloak rooms, provision of, 346 



INDEX 



441 



Clothes, drying of, 340 
working, 345 

protective, for men and women, 346, 
353359 

Coal distillation, products of, associated 

with cancer of skin, 173 
miners, comparative mortality of, 
from certain causes, 1910 12, table, 
76 

Mines Act, 1911.. 38, 44 
mines, legislation regarding, 29 

" Coefficient of correlation " in statistics, 
61 

Cold, effect on calorie requirements, 251 

Colliery baths, need for, 334 

Consolidating Factory and Workshop 
Act, 1901.. 36 

Cotton manufacturers, proportion-ate mor- 
tality from phthisis in, 62 

Crippled, occupations for, 421 

Cross ventilation of dope room, 303, 305 

Cubicles for bathing, 338 

Dangerous and unhealthy industries, 
orders relating to, in Factory and 
Workshop Act, 1901.. 42 
Daylight, beneficial effects of, 315 

curves showing approximate variations 

of, 323 

effect on microbic life, 315 
" factor " in lighting, 322 
See also Lighting. 

Death, average ages at, fallacy of com- 
paring, 48 
rates, males and females, 1838 87.. 

232 
standardised, percentage ratios of, 

using different standards, 57 
Deaths from all causes at certain ages of 
all occupied and retired males, table 
showing, 62 

from phthisis at various age groups, 62 
Dental clinics at factories, 405 
Dermatitis from lubricating oil, 396 
industries where workers liable to, need 
for washing accommodation to pre- 
vent, 335 
Diet, effect of climate and occupation on, 

253 

influence of, in tuberculosis, 144 
sufficient in energy, importance of, 251 
vitamines in, 144, 257 
Diets, energy value of, 244 
at women's hostels, 245 
of various classes, 246 
Disabled, reclamation of, amputation 

stumps, 418 
ankylosis and stiffness of shoulder 

joint, 415 

ankylosis of elbow joint, 416 
ankylosis of hijJ joint, 417 
ankylosis of knee joint, 417 
artificial limbs, 410, 419 
bibliography, 437 
defective hearing, 429 
defective vision, 427 
development due to the War, 410 
disablement by disease, 432 
disablement from nerve injuries, 426 



Disabled, reclamation of (contd.). 

fitting the work to the worker, 420 
flail elbow-joint, 416 
functional nerve disorders, 431 
funct ; onal re-education of, 411 
home industries for, 437 
industrial training, 435 
limitation of pronation and supina- 

tion of forearm, 417 
need for, 408 

occupational training of, 412 
occupations for the crippled, 421 
re-education, 413 
sick pay difficulties, 434 
surgical disabilities of the limbs, 415 
table of occupations and disabilities 
to which they are suited, 422 425 
the haad, 417 
training of, 435 
ununited fractures of arm, 416 
ununited fractures of femur, 418 
value of occupation, 435 
Disablement by disease, 411, 432 
Disease, notification of, orders relating to, 
in Factory and Workshop Act, 1901 . . 
42 
Distillation, coal, products of, associated 

with cancer of skin, 173 
Districts, industrial, occupied males in 

standardised mortality rate, 53 
Douche baths, 338 
Drinking fountains^ 344 

water, provision of, 343 
Drying of clothes, 340 
Dust particles, inhalation of, asthma due 

to, 300 

bronchitis due to, 300 
phthisis due to, 300 
pneumonia due to, 300 
Dust, removal of, 308 
Dyeing, protective clothing for workers, 

357 

Dysmenorrhcea in regard to industrial 
employment, 226 

Eczema from lubricating oil, 396 

Efficiency, lighting and, 314 

Eighteenth .century, industrial conditions 

preceding, 5 

industrial development during, 8 
Elbow joint, ankylosis of, 416 

flail, 416 
Employment, conditions of, influencing 

industrial fatigue, 116 
effect of, on health, vital statistics 

indicating, 66 
factor in production of tuberculosis, 

133 

lowered resistance due to, pre- 
disposing to tuberculosis, 138 
Employment of children, 14, 15. See also 

under Children. 
Employment of women, 211 

anaemia and digestive disturbances, 

227 

bibliography, 241 
care of children of working mothers, 

230 
care of expectant mother, 229 



442 



INDEX 



Employment of women (contd. ). 

comparative sickness tables, 218. 219 

dysmenorrhcea in regard to, 226 

effect on industry, 237 

factor of experience, 236 

factor of general resistance to 

disease, 231 
factor of lack of physical training, 

222 

factor of maternity, 229 
factor of psychological aptitude, 233 
factor of psycho-neuroses, 234 
factor of respiration, 228 
factor of shock, 228 
historical survey, 212 
household duties in regard to, 238 
importance of nutrition, 224 
lack of morbidity and mortality data 

regarding, 217 
liability to fatigue, 222 
'liability to hernia, 222 
menstruation, 225 
physical capacity, 219 
prevention of varicose veins, 224 
protective clothing for, 346, 353 

359 
summary and conclusions regarding, 

239, 240 

Energy, expenditure of, per square metre 
of body surface, in various occupa- 
tions, 247 

importance of a diet sufficient in, 251 
industrial expenditure of, 247 
requirements and wages of industrial 

workers, 249 
value of diets, 244 

value of diets at women's hostels, 245 
value of diets of various classes, 246 
value of food, 244 
Engineering shops, need for washing 

accommodation at, 335 
Engine-house workers, protective clothing 

for, 355 

Engine, machine, boilermakers, etc., 
mortality from accidents, comparative 
chart, 180 
Environment and phthisis, 140 

effect of, on incidence of tuberculosis in 

males and females, 132 
Epidemic disease, industry and, 11 
Epidemiology of tuberculosis, 126 

summary of, 141 
Eye, injuries to, 186, 187, 189 

first aid treatment of at factories, 395 
in granite dressers, 186 
Eyes, effect of insufficient light upon, 317 
Eye-guards, 188, 189 
Eyesight, effect of lighting on, 315 

of juvenile workers, examination of, 

382 

various grades of, occupations suitable 
/ for, 427 
Eyestrain, causes of, 317 

Factories and workshops, accidents in 

(tables), 182, 183 

welfare of workers in, orders made 
under Police, Factories, etc. 
(Misc. Prov.), Act, 1916.. 43 



Factories (contd. ) . 

accidents in, by shafting, 184, 185 

dental clinics at, 405 

first aid organisation at, 393 

medical inspector of, first appointment, 

1897.. 36 
welfare department at, staff required, 

405 

welfare superintendent at, 399 
Factory and Workshop Acts, various 
dates, 18671907 and later, 34 37, 
42 
employment, effect on incidence of 

tuberculosis, 136, 137 
food at the, 259 

canteen management, 264 

dinner menus, 266, 268, 269 

facilities provided, 260 

food brought by workers, 259 

menu at canteens, 265 

principles .of construction of canteen 

premises, 261 

provision of tea trolleys, 263 
legislation, commencement of, 24 
medical officer, possibilities of, 384 
medical service, 383 

ambulance room, 388, 390 

cost of, 387 

first aid dressings, methods of using 

397400 
principles of, 387 

table of accidents and time lost, 385 
the nurse, 388 
workmen's compensation and (table), 

386 
See alsc- Certifying Factory Surgeon, 

378 383 
Fan, pressure, for ventilation, 309 

types of, for localised exhaust ventila- 
tion, 311 

Fat in various foods, table of, 265 
Fats, source of energy in food, 244 
Fat-soluble A, 256 

Fatigue, central nervous system and, 85 
definition of, 80 
effects of, on output, 94 97 
importance of rhythm in reference to, 91 
indications of, 91 
industrial accidents and, 105 
activity and, 79 
adjustment of work to physique of 

workers for prevention of, 120 
bad ventilation and, 116 
bibliography, 123 

conditions of employment influenc- 
ing, 116 
effect of length of working hours on 

occurrence of accidents, 106 
effect of work before breakfast on, 

102 

extra-factorial influences, 103 
high temperatures causing, 117 
influence of hours of labour on, 

109114 

influences contributing to, 108 
labour turnover and, 104 
lost time in relation to, 99. See also 

under Time, lost, 
methods of work and, 118. 



INDEX 



Fatigue, industrial accidents a,nd (contd.). 
" motion study " in prevention of, 

119, 121 

relationship between accidents in 
fatigue period and subsequent 
period, 107 
sickness and, 99 
influence of, on ratio of industrial 

accidents, 191 
liability of women to, in industrial 

employment, 222 
measurement of, direct tests, 92 
indirect tests, output, 93 97 
Martin's test for, 92 
means of, 91 
reaction of pulse -rate to respiratory 

effort, 93 

Ryan's test for, 92 
mental, 86 
muscular, 83 

comparison of alternating stress 

curve on wrought-iron with, 82 
neuro-muscular mechanism and, 83 
practice effect and, 87 
site of, 83 
static, seating accommodation to avoid, 

349 
the animal body considered as a 

machine, 80 

Feeding of the industrial worker, 243 
at canteens, 261 
bibliography, 267 
effect of climate and occupation upon 

diet, 253 

energy requirements and wages, 249 
energy value of diets, 244 
importance of constituents of dietary, 

252 
importance of food accessory factors, 

255 

industrial expenditure of energy, 247 
Set also Factor}-, Food, etc. 
Fellmongering, tanning and currying, 

protective clothing for, 355 
Females and males, anatomical differences, 

219, 220 

athletic capacity contrasted, 22i 
physiological characteristics, 223 
relation of strength to weight, 220 
strength contrasted, 219 221 
Females, daily food requirements of, in 

various occupations, 248 
mortality from cancer in, 163 el seq. 
mortality from phthisis in, 129, 130, 

131, 134 

See also Women. 

Femur, ununited fractures of, 418 
" First aid " boxes, 393 

dressings, method of using, 397 400 
organisation at factories, 393 
Flail elbow- joint, 416 
Flat-foot, causes of, 349 
Fog in relation to acute lung diseases, 

297 

Food accessory factors (vitamines), im- 
portance of, 255 
Food at the factory, 259 
bibliography, 267 
canteen management, 264 



Food at the factory (contd.). 
dinner menus, 268, 269 
facilities provided, 260 
food brought by workers, 259 
menu at canteens, 265 
principles of construction, canteen 

premises, 261 

provision of tea trolleys, 263 
suggested dinners for canteens, 266 
weekly dinner menu for canteens,. 

266 
Food, energy value of, 244 

of industrial workers, proportional: 

expenditure on, 250 
vitamines in, 257 
production, protective clothing for 

workers, 355 

requirements, daily, of typical occupa- 
tions, 248 
See aho Diet. 
Foods, various, calories in, table of, 265 

carbohydrates in, table of, 265 
Forearm, limitation of pronation and! 

supination of, 417 
Fountains, drinking, 344 
Friendly societies, returns of, showing 
effects of industrial employment upon 
health, 66 

Fumes, heated, removal of, 309 
Functional re-education of the disabled, 

411 

Furriers, protective clothing for workers, 
358 



Gas works, protective clothing for 

workers, 356 
Geographical situation, influence of, on 

mortality in industrial employment, 66,. 

68 
Germany, cancer in (by organs and parts) r 

according to occupation, 171 
Germs in air, 298 
Glare in lighting, 316 
Glass workers, posterior polar cataract 
among, 316 

works, protective clothing for workers, 

356 

Glycogen, 88 
Goggles, protective, importance of, 187 r 

189 

Granite dressers, eye injuries in, 186 
Grinding metals, workers in, blood 

pressure of, 290 



Hair, protective clothing for workers, 356 
Hand, artificial, 420 
disablement of, 417 
right, disabled, training with left hand. 

415 
Health and Morals of Apprentices Act, 

1802.. 24 
Health, certifying factory surgeon and. 

378 

clauses in Coal Mines Act, 1911, re- 
garding, 38 

committee at industrial works, duties 
of, 404 



444 



INDEX 



Health (contd.). 

effects of industrial employment on, as 

indicated by vital statistics, 66 
bibliography, 78 
morbidity of occupations, 77 
. general, effect of lighting on, 314 
industrial, supervision of, 377 
maintenance of, duties of welfare 

superintendent regarding, 401 
medical supervision in, 377 

bibliography, 407 

orders relating to, in Factory and Work- 
shop Act, 1901.. 42 
State, the, and, 4 

Hearing, defective, re-education for, 429 
Heart, diseases of, work suitable in cases 

of, 433 

Heat, body, loss of, methods of, 287 
Hernia, liability of women to, in indus- 
trial employment, 222 
Hip joint, ankylosis of, 417 
Historical survey, 1 18 
Home industries for disabled, 437 
Hours of work, influence on fatigue, 109 

114 

Hours of work, shortened, effect on out- 
put, 98 

Humidity of air, effect on body tempera- 
ture, 288 
Hysteria, 234 

Illumination, 314 et seq. See also Lighting. 
India, cataract in, prevalence of, 316 
Industrialisation and cancer, 162 
Industry and epidemic disease, 11 

cancer and, 154 

conditions preceding eighteenth cen- 
tury, 5 

definition of, 1 

development during eighteenth cen- 
tury, 8 

effect of employment of children on, 14 

effect of employment of women on, 237 

localisation of, geological considerations 
influencing, 3 

mechanical power in, introduction of, 3 

retrospect of, 1 18 

tuberculosis and. 126 



bibliography, 152 
influences of 



ventilation, 143 
prevention, detection and treatment 

in relation to, 146 

provision of employment for sana- 
torium patients, 148 
See also Tuberculosis. 
Infant mortality, effect of ventilation on 

rate of, 281 

Iodine, tincture of, importance of, in treat- 
ment of minor injuries, 396 
method of application, 400 

Juvenile workers, examination of, by 

certifying factory surgeon, 379, 380 
See also Children. * 

Kapok, feather and down stuffing, pro- 
tective clothing for workers, 356 
Katathermometer, 293 
Knee joint, ankylosis of, 417 



Labour, hours of, influence on industrial 

fatigue, 109114 
modification by redistribution, 113 
turnover or industrial wastage, 360 
bibliography, 376 
effect of, 362 

effect of industrial fatigue on, 104 
from sickness, 373 
methods of investigating, 363 
prevention of, 374 

care of the employed, 375 
selection of workers, 374 
statistics regarding, 361, 364 372 
value of investigation, 368 
Labouring, protective clothing for workers, 

356 
Laundries, Factory Act of 1891 covering, 

35 
Laundry work, protective clothing for 

workers, 357 
Lavatories, 331 343. 

See also Washing accommodation and 

Bathing facilities. 
Lead poisoning, prevention of, Act of 

1883 re, 35 
women not more susceptible than 

men, 233 

workers, need for washing accommoda- 
tion for, 335 
Left hand, training with,^ in cases of 

disabled right hand, 414 
Leg, artificial, 419 

loss of, occupations suitable, 426 
Legs, both, loss of, occupations suitable, 

426 

Legislation, industrial, re Bakehouses, 32 
bibliography, 41 
Chimney Sweeps Acts, 23 
Coal Mines Act, 1911.. 38 
Consolidating Factory and Workshop 

Act, 1901.. 36 
during 1819 31.. 26, 27 
during 1833 53.. 28, 29 
during 1855 73.. 31 
during 1883 1901. .35 
during nineteenth century, contro- 
versy regarding, 25, 26 
Factory Acts, 1867 1903 and later, 

3237 
Health and Morals of Apprentices 

Act, 1802.. 24 
Metalliferous Mines Regulation Act, 

1872.. 34 
Mines Accidents (Rescue and Aid) 

Act, 1910.. 37 

Mines Acts, 29, 31, 33, 36, 37 
Ordinance of Labourers, 1349.. 21 
Police, Factories, etc. (Miscellaneous 

Provisions) Act, 1916.. 39 
Poor Law Act, 1601.. 22 
Print Works Act, 1845. .30 
Quarries Act, 1894.. 36 
retrospect of, 39 
review of, 19 44 
Shop Hours Acts, 1886, 1892. .35 
Statute of Apprentices, 21 
Statute of Labourers, 1351. .21 
Ten Hours Act, 1847.. 30 
Truck Acts, various dates, 23 



INDEX 



445 



Legislation, industrial (contd. ). 

Workmen's Compensation Acts, 

various dates, 39 
Workshops Act, 1867. .33 
Life, expectations of, at age 20, based on 

mortality of 1900-2, table, 74 
Brownlee's method of calculating, 74 
(males) at age 20, eighty years ago, 

table, 70 
at age 20 (Manchester Unity), table, 

70 
Life table, compilation of, data required 

for, 51 
of 1,000 persons from age 30 to death, 

population, age distribution of, 56 
Life tables, general principles of con- 
struction, 50 
value of expectation of life as shown 

by, 51 

Lighting and industrial efficiency, 314 
artificial, 325 

effect of, orr output, 118 

general illumination, 325 

influence on ratio of industrial 

accidents, 193 
local illumination, 326 

examples of, 327 
bibliography, 330 
defective, causing nystagmus, 315 
economic value of, 319 
effect on eyesight, 315 
effect on general health, 314 
excessive, causing posterior polar 

cataract, 316 
glare in, 316 
good, advantages of, 320 
influence of, upon occurrence of indus- 
trial accidents, 317 
insufficient light, 317 
measurement of, 320 
natural, 322 

curves showing approximate varia- 
tions of daylight, 323 
" daylight factor " in, 322 
effect of height of windows upon, 324 
requirements of, 324 
standards of, 328 
Limbs, artificial, 410, 419 

surgical disabilities of, 415 
Linoleum, protective clothing for workers, 

357 
Longevity, industrial, statistical methods 

of calculation, limitations in, 46 
Lubricating oil, dermatitis from, 396 

eczema from, 396 

Lung diseases, acute, relation of, to fog, 
297 



Males, cancer in, mortality from, in 

selected occupations, 170 
daily food requirements of, in various 

occupations, 248 

mortality from cancer, 163 et seq. 
mortality from phthisis, 129, 131 
mortality of, in several occupations, 

compared with accident mortality, 

177 



j Males (contd.). 

occupational incidence of tuberculosis 

in, 134 
standardised mortality rate of, table 

showing, 54 
Males and females, anatomical differences,. 

219, 220 

athletic capacity contrasted, 221 
physiological characteristics, 223 
relation of strength to weight, 220 
strength contrasted, 219 221 
Manchester Unity, investigation of effects 
of industrial employment upon health, 
68 
Martin's muscular strength test for 

measurement of fatigue, 92 
Maternity factor in industrial employ- 
ment of women, 229 
Mechanical means of general ventilation, 

303 
Medical supervision in regard to industrial 

health, 377 
Men, protective clothing for, 346, 353 

359 
Menstruation and industrial employment 

of women, 225 
Mental fatigue, 86 
Menu, the, at canteens for industrial 

workers, 265 

Metabolism and rhythm, 89 
Metalliferous Mines Regulation Acts, 

1872, 1875.. 34, 44 
Metal processes, protective clothing for 

workers, 357 
Millgearing, protective clothing for 

workers, 358 

Miners, mortality from accidents, com- 
parative chart, 180 
Miners' nystagmus, 315 
Mines Accidents (Rescue and Aid) Act,. 

1910.. 37 

Acts (various), 29, 31, 33, 36, 37 
Mines, need for washing accommodation 

at, 335 
Mining, accident death rates in United 

Kingdom, 181 
accidents in, non-fatal, 181 
industry, need for baths for workers 

in, 334 
Morbidity data in respect of industrial 

employment of women, 232 
occupational, 77 

rates, principles for utilisation of, 64 
Mortality, comparative figures of, Regis- 
trar-General's returns, 73 
for phthisis, 63 
effect of occupation on, difficulties of 

estimating, 72 

from all respiratory* diseases, chart, 297 
from cancer, 156 

in agricultural workers, 171 

in selected occupations, 170 

in cities according to latitude, 158 

increase of, 155 

percentage by organs and parts and 

sex, 167, 168 

regional classification, 163 165 
from fevers in beginning of nineteenth, 
century, causes of, 1 3 



446 



INDEX 



Mortality (contd.). 

from tuberculosis, 128131, 134 
industrial, and social unrest, relation 

between, 75 

statistical methods of calculation, 52 
of coal miners, comparative, from cer- 
tain causes, 1910 1912, table, 76 
of males in several occupations, com- 
pared with accident mortality, 177 
proportionate, calculation of, 60 

from phthisis in certain occupations, 

62 
rate of, and ventilation,. 281 

standardised, of all males, table 

showing, 54 
of occupied males in agricultural 

districts, table showing, 54 
of occupied males in industrial 

districts, table showing, 53 
trade, index of, 71 

*' Motion study " in prevention of indus- 
trial fatigue, 119, 121 
Munition factory work, effect of, on 
mortality from tuberculosis in females, 
132 
Muscle, composition of, 88 

contraction of, phenomena of, 88 
Muscles, activity of, chemistry of, 87 
nervous mechanism of fatigue and, 83 
strength of, testing of, in measurement 

of fatigue, 92 
Muscular fatigue, 83 



Hail brushes, 337 
Natural lighting, 322 

means of general ventilation, 301 
Uerve disorders, functional, 431, 432 

injuries, disablement from, 426 
Nervous system, central fatigue and, 85 
Neurasthenics, suitable work for, 431 
Neuro- muscular mechanism, fatigue and, 

83 

Nitrogen, amount in air, 283 
Nurse, factory, 388 
Nutrition in males and females contrasted, 

224 
Nystagmus, miners', 315 



Occupation, effect of, on diet, 253 

on mortality, difficulties of esti- 
mating, 72 
influence on mortality in industrial 

employment, 66, 68 
status of, in relation to incidence of 

tuberculosis, 128 . 
value of, for disabled, 435 
Occupational incidence of cancer, 170, 171 

of tuberculosis in males, 134 
training of the disabled, 412 
Occupations, and disabilities to which 
they are suitable, table of, 422 425 
cancer in, 167 
for crippled, 421 
suitable for men who have lost a leg, 

426 

an arm, 426 
both lower limbs, 426 



Oil, lubricating, dermatitis from, 396 

eczema from, 396 
Oilseed crushing, protective clothing for 

workers, 358 

Ordinance of Labourers, 1349.. 21 
Output and temperature, seasonal varia- 
tion of, 117 
and ventilation, seasonal variation of, 

117 

effect of adequate lighting upon, 319 
effect of artificial lighting on, 118 
effect of fatigue on, 94 97 
effect of hours of labour on, 109 115 
hourly, scheme of, where long hours 
are practised and then shortened, 98 
influence of rest-periods on, 349 
rate of, effect on industrial accidents, 

105108 
records of, as data for measurement of 

fatigue, 93 97 
speed of, in relation to industrial 

accidents, 190, 194, 195 
Overalls, 344 

advantages of, 345 
Overcrowding, cause of high mortality 

from fevers, 13 
effect of, on incidence of tuberculosis, 

136 
effect of, on microbic. infection of air, 

298 
Over-strain, less prevalent in muscular 

than mental exertion, 87 
Oxygen, amount in air, 283 



Paint and colour workers, protective 

clothing for, 358 
Paper and rag sorting, protective clothing 

for workers, 358 
making, protective clothing for workers, 

358 

Photometer for measurement of illumina- 
tion, 320, 321 
Phthisis, 126 

comparative mortality figures for, 63 
deaths from, at various age groups, 62 
due to inhalation of dust particles, 

300 

environment and, 140 
mortality from, comparative figures, 

129, 131, 134 
in females, 130, 134 
in males and females, urban and 

rural districts, 131 
proportionate in certain occupations, 

62 

urban and rural, 129, 131 
types of, 138 

See also Tuberculosis. 
Physical capacity of women for industrial 

employment, 219 

Physiological effects of alcohol, 271 
Plague, history of, in Great Britain, 12 
Plenum system of ventilation, 306 
Plumbism, 35, 233, 335. See also Lead 

poisoning. 
Pneumonia due to inhalation of dust 

particles, 300 
Pneumonoconioses, 300 



INDEX 



447 



Police, Factories, etc. (Miscellaneous 
Provisions), Act, 1916, orders made 
under, 39, 43 

Poor Law Act, 1601.. 22 

Potteries, protective clothing for workers, 
358 

Poverty, in relation to tuberculosis, 127 

Practice effect, fatigue and, 87 

Pregnancy and industrial employment of 
women, 229 

Pressure fan for ventilation, 309 

Preventive medicine, statistical methods 
in utilisation of, 45 

Primitive races, low cancer rate in, 159 

Printers, mortality from accidents, com- 
parative chart, 178 

Print Works Act, 1845. .30 

"Probable error," quantity of, in sta- 
tistics, 57, 59 

Propeller fans for ventilation, speed and 
output of, 304 

" Proportionate mortality rate," 60 

Protective clothing for workers, 346, 353 
359 

Proteins, daily requirements of, 253 
in various foods, table of, 265 
source of energy in food, 244 

Psychical influences in regard to industrial 
accidents, 193 

Psychological aptitude in relation to 
industrial employment of women, 233 
influences in re-education of disabled, 
413 

Psycho-neuroses in relation to industrial 
employment of women, 234 

Psycho-physiological results of alcohol, 
272 

Pulse-rate, reaction of, to respiratory 
effort, test for fatigue, 93 

" Putrid " fever, 15 



Quarries Act, 1894.. 36 



Rabbit skins or hatters' furriers, protec- 
tive clothing for workers, 358 

Reclamation of the disabled, 408 

Recreation for industrial workers, im- 
portance of, 403 

Re-education of disabled, psychological 
influences, 413 

Registrar-General's returns of compara- 
tive mortality figures, 73 

Respiration factor in industrial employ- 
ment of women, 228 
inadequate, and tuberculosis, industrial 
conditions influencing, 144 

Respirators, 311 

Respiratory diseases, mortality from 

(chart), 297 
exchange of air, 283 

Rest periods, influence on output, 114, 
115, 349 

Rest, seats for, 348 

Rhythm, metabolism and, 89 

in industrial work, importance of, 90 
in reference to fatigue, 91 

~ physiological factors regarding, 91 



Rickets, absence of fat-soluble A, cause 
of, 256 

Roman baths, 332 

Romans, industries established by, 5 
ordinances of, protecting slaves, 19 

Rbntgen-ray cancer, 174 

Rooms, size of, effect on natural ventila- 
tion, 302 

Rope or twine makers, protective clothing 
for workers, 358 

Rubber works, protective clothing for 
workers, 359 

Ryan's test for measurement of fatigue, 

92 

Safety committees for prevention of 

industrial accidents, 206 
" Safety first " in prevention of industrial 

accidents, 207 
Safety lamps, cause of miners' nystagmus, 

315 

in mines, orders relating to, 44 
Sanatorium patients, provision of em- 
ployment for, 148 
Sand blasting, protective clothing for 

workers, 359 
Sanitary accommodation, construction of, 

341 

standard of,' 341 
Saw-milling, protective clothing for 

workers, 359 
Scalds, first aid treatment of, at factories, 

394 
Scurvy, absence of ant i -scorbutic factor 

causing, 257 
Seats for rest, 348 

for use at processes usually carried on 

standing, 351 
for work, 349 

arrangement and spacing of, 351 
requirements of, 350 
provision of, 347 
swinging, for press operators, 352 
Sex ratio of cancer, 163 et seq. 

of tuberculosis for urban and rural 

districts, 131 

Shaft accidents in factories, 184, 185 
Shoemakers, mortality from accidents, 

comparative chart, 178 
proportionate mortality from phthisis 

in, 62 

Shop Hours Acts, 35 
Shoulder joint, ankylosis and stiffness of, 

415 

Sickness, industrial wastage from, 373 
lost time due to, in relation to fatigue, 

99 

seasonal variations in, 100 
tables of, in men and women, com- 
pared, 218, 219 
Sick-pay difficulties of disabled workers, 

434 

Silicosis, tubercular, 144, 300 
Skin, cancer of, coal distillation products 

associated with, 173 
function of, in regard to washing 

accommodation at factories, 334 
reaction, vascular, in measurement of 
fatigue, 92 



448 



INDEX 



Slag wool, protective clothing for workers, 

359 ' 
Soap, jelly, container for, 337 

provision of, for washing, 337, 340 
Soap-making, protective clothing for 

workers, 359 
Social status and. cancer, 161 

unrest and industrial mortality, rela- 
tion between, 75 
Spirit-drinking habit, rise of, 274 
Spittoons, provision of, in factories, 

necessity for, 151 
" Standardising factor " in statistical 

methods, 53 

State, the, and industrial health, 4 
Statistical methods, utilisation of, biblio- 
graphy, 65 
fallacy of comparing average ages at 

death, 48 

in industrial preventive medicine, 45 
life tables, principles of construction, 50 
methods of standardisation, 52 57 
morbidity rates, 64 
percentage ratios of standardised death 

rates using different standards, 57 
proportionate mortality rate, 60 
quantity of " probable error," 57, 59 
regarding industrial longevity, 46 
regarding mortality, 52 
reliability of data,' 58 
standardising factor, 53 
table showing after-history of 1,000 

persons from age 30 to death, 47 
table showing standardised mortality 
rate of occupied males in agricul- 
tural districts, 54 
in industrial districts, 53 
Statistics regarding labour turnover, 361, 

364372 
vital, indicating effects of industrial 

employment on health, 66 
indicating effects of industrial em- 
ployment on health, index of trade 
mortality, 71 
Statute of Apprentices, 21 
of Labourers, 1351 . .21 
Stiffness of shoulder joint, 415 
Stoking, protective clothing for workers, 

359 
Stomach and liver, cancer of, mortality 

from (tables), 164, 165 
Strength of males and females contrasted, 

220, 221 

Stumps, amputation, 418 
Sunlight, effect on microbic life, 315 
Susceptibility, personal, in regard to pre- 
vention of industrial accidents, 208 

Tailors, proportionate mortality from 

phthisis in, 62 

Tea trolleys, provision of, at factories, 263 
Temperature and output, seasonal varia- 
tion of, chart, 117 
effect on calorie requirements, 251 
high, effect on industrial fatigue, 117 
influence of, on ratio of industrial 

accidents, 192, 193 
of air in industrial works, 287 
of body, normal, 288 



Ten Hours Act, 1847.. 30 

Textile and allied processes, protective 

clothing for workers, 359 
industry, cancer in, mortality from, 169> 
Thermometer, Kata-, 293 
Time, lost, daily distribution of, 102 

in relation to fatigue, method of 

calculating, 99, 100 
in relation to fatigue, table of 

investigation, 101 
through accidents, table of, 385 
Tin-plate trade, blood-pressure of workers 

in, 290 

Towels, provision of, 337, 340 
Trade mortality, index of, 71 
Training of disabled, 435 
Traumatic causes affecting incidence of 

cancer, 174 

Troughs for washing, 336 
Truck Acts, various dates, 23 
Tubercle bacillus, 126, 127 
Tubercular silicosis, 144, 300 
Tuberculosis and industry, 126 
adverse influences, 143 
bibliography, 152 
factory medical service and, 147 
influences of .ventilation, 143 
provision of employment for sana- 
torium patients, 148 
death rate from, 128 
decline of, 128 
effect of factory employment on 

incidence of, 1 36 
effect of other diseases on incidence of, 

136 
effect of overcrowding on incidence of,. 

136 

epidemiology of, 126 
eugenic aspect of, 145 
industrial employment predisposing to > 

138 

industrial treatment of, 147 
infection of, 126 
influence of diet in, 144 
occupational incidence upon males, 134 
poverty in relation to, 127 
predisposition to, 126 
prevention, detection and treatment in, 

relation to industry, 146 
treatment of, industrial, 147 
types of, 138 
work suitable for cases of, 433 

See also Phthisis. 
Typhus, history of, in Great Britain, 12 



United States, cancer rate in, 158 

mortality from cancer in, 164, 168, 172' 



Vapours, volatile, removal of, 310 
Varicose veins, causes of, 349 

in women, 224 
Ventilation and disease, relationship 

between, 281, 282 
and output, seasonal variation of 

(chart), 117 

bad, causing industrial fatigue, 116, 117.' 
bibliography, 312 



INDEX 



449 



Ventilation (conld. ). 

carbon dioxide as a measure of, 285 

chemical composition of air, 283 

cross, of dope room, 303, 305 

desiderata for, 295 

effect of, on air-borne infection, 298 

general, 301 

by extraction, 304 

propeller fans for, 304 
by impulsion or plenum, 306 
by localised exhaust, 308 
by localised exhaust, air inlets in, 

310 

faults to avoid, 310 

types of fan, 311 

inlet openings for, 306 

mechanical means, 303 

natural means of, 301 

impurities in air, 296 

influences of, on tuberculosis in in- 
dustry, 143 

in prevention of contraction of air- 
borne diseases, 299 

methods of, 301 

physical properties of air, 287 

pressure fan for, 309 

reasons for, and methods of, 281 

removal of dust, 308 

removal of heated fumes, 309 

removal of volatile vapours, 310 
Vision, defective^ occupation suitable for 

various grades of, 427 
Vital statistics, methods of standardisa- 
tion, 52 57 

See also Statistics. 
Vitamines, anti-scorbutic factor, 257 

fat-soluble A, 256 

importance of, 255 

in diet, 144, 257 

in workers' food, 257 

origin of, 257 

water-soluble B, 256 

Wages, and energy requirements, of 

industrial workers, 250 
Want, cause of high mortality from 

fevers, 13 

War, the, effect on mortality from tuber- 
culosis in females, 132 
Washing accommodation, 331 

basins and troughs, 336 

bathing facilities, 338 

bibliography, 353 

cleaning of, 338 

maintenance of, 340 

nail-brushes, 337 

necessity for, in special industries, 335 

need for, 334 

soap, 337 

standard of, 335 

towels, 337 

what to provide, 336 
Wastage analysis in labour turnover, 
364372 

industrial, 360 
bibliography, 376 
effect of, 362 
from sickness, 373 
methods of investigating, 363 



Wastage, industrial (contd.). 
prevention of, 374 

care of the employed, 375 
selection of workers, 374 
statistics regarding, 364 372 
value of investigation, 368 
Water for bathing facilities, 339 

for drinking, fountains for, 344 
Water power in industry, early use of, 3 

influence of, 4 
Water-soluble B, 256 
Weavers, blood-pressure of, 290 
Welfare department, staff requirements 

for, 405 
superintendent, 399 

duties re maintenance of health, 401 
duties re personnel, 401 
Wind power in industry, 4 
Windows, height of, effect on natural 

lighting, 324 

Women, industrial employment of, 211 
anaemia and digestive disturbances, 

227 

bibliography, 241 
care of children of working mothers, 

230 

care of expectant mother, 229 
comparative sickness tables, 218, 219 
dysmenorrhoea in regard to, 226 
effect on industry, 237 
factor of experience, 236 
factor of general resistance to disease, 

231 
factor of lack of physical training, 

222 

factor of maternity, 229 
factor of psychological aptitude, 233 
factor of psycho-neuroses, 234 
factor of respiration, 228 
factor of shock, 228 
historical survey, 212 
household duties in regard to, 238 
importance of nutrition, 224 
lack of morbidity and mortality data 

regarding, 217 
liability to fatigue, 222 
liability to hernia, 222 
menstruation, 225 
physical capacity, 219 
prevention of varicose veins, 224 
protective clothing for, 346, 353 359 
summary and conclusions regarding, 

239, 240 

See also Females. 
Wood-working, protective clothing for 

workers, 359 

Wool and worsted manufacturers, mor- 
tality from accidents, comparative 
chart, 179 
Work, adjustment of, to physique of 

workers, 120 

before breakfast, disadvantages of, 102 
for disabled, arrangement of, 420 
methods of, and industrial fatigue, 118 

" motion study" in, 119 
rhythm and, importance of, 90 
seats for, 349 

various kinds of, output records of, 
illustrating effect of fatigue, 94, 95 
29 



450 



INDEX 



Worker, disabled, fitting the work to, 

420 

Workers, feeding of, 243 
at canteens, 261 
bibliography, 267 
effect of climate and occupation 

upon diet, 253 
energy requirements and wages, 

249 

energy value of diets, 244 
importance of constituents of dietary, 

252 
importance of food accessory factors, 

255 
industrial expenditure of energy, 247 

vitamines in, 257 
proportional expenditure on food by, 

250 

sedentary, calorie requirements of, 
251 



Workers (contd.). 

selection of, relative to industrial 
wastage, 374 

use of alcoholic beverages by, 271 
Working clothes, 344 

suitability of, in prevention of industrial 

accidents, 208 
Workmen's Compensation Acts, various 

dates, 39 
Workmen's Compensation Act, 1906. 

schedule of diseases, 43 
Workmen's Compensation (Silicosis) Act, 

1918.. 44 

Workmen's Compensation, factory medi- 
cal service and (table), 386 
Works, health committees at. duties of. 

404 

Workshops Act, 1867.. 33 
Wounds, slight, first-aid treatment of at 

factories, 394 



THE WHITEFRIARS PRESS, LTD., LONDON AND TONBRIDGE. 



s~ 




<fo 1 1 


University of Toronto 


1 i 


Library 




i ^ 
co 1 jij 




/? 


irt j a 


DO NOT 


/ 


> U 




// 


rH *O rH 
6 1 


REMOVE / 


7 


6 H 


// 




1 3 

<jj> CO 


// 

THE // 




| 1 


CARD 




i 1 

^ ^^3 

-H 


FROM ^ 




| ^0 


THIS 


\ 


\A A 




\\ 


-H 








POCKET 


\. 


-H 03 




^\ 


fS 

O Q) 






O ^4 






i. 


Acme Library Card Pocket 


o 


Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 


s H 


Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 


^ H 









