
Book .S'dSj^ 



ciiEmiGHT DEPosrr. 



THE 

ELECTRIC RANGE 

HANDBOOK 



FOURTH EDITION 
1921 



New Addendum — Electrical Cooking Equip- 
ment in Restaurant Kitchens Page 202a 

New Addendum — Relative Cost of Cooking by 
Electricity, Gas and Coal Page 209 




'DO IT ELECTRICALLY" 

Prepared and published by 

The Society for Electrical Development, Inc. 

522 Fifth Avenue 
New York City 



^f'i 



Copyright, iqiq and iq2I ,by 
The Society for Electrical Development, Inc. 



Price to Members, $2; to Others, $3. 



MtR -1 1922 






Dedicated 



to the national conservation of fuel, 
food and labor and to greater effi- 
ciency and economy in the home. 



Purpose of This Handbook 

THIS HANDBOOK is a complete compilation of authentic 
electric range information and data. Its purpose is to guide 
and help solve the problems of central station managers 
who have realized the importance and profit of the range load and 
are contemplating the establishing of a rate and the merchandis- 
ing of ranges. 

A secondary purpose is to stimulate greater range activity in 
general, to show the way to more extensive sales to manu- 
facturers, jobbers and contractor-dealers; also to central 
stations which have a cooking rate but have been retarded by 
different causes in installing ranges on their lines. 

The information and recommendations are based on the valu- 
able experiences and resultant policies of a number of the large 
and small central stations throughout the United States which 
have pioneered and placed the sales and service of the electric 
range on a definite, successful and profitable basis. 

The text has been reviewed and approved by several range 
authorities and cannot be materially affected by changing con- 
ditions, as the fundamental methods of merchandising and main- 
taining this load builder will remain unchanged. The technical 
chapters are written in non-technical language for the benefit of 
the salesman and should be included in his range education. 
There are sales advantages in knowing essential facts about the 
central station system. 

In this country today, more than 6,000 communities have 
electric cooking rates. Many of them are actively and steadily 
merchandising ranges through systematized business methods. 
The others merely have a rate, unsupported by sales effort. The 
fact that the electric range is a well-established and rapidly- 



growing factor in central station development is proved by the 
overwhelming success of these progressive companies. 

The electric range requires little additional equipment com- 
pared with the total plant and line investment. Its sale and 
maintenance are fundamentally simple. Its load in unquestion- 
ably desirable because of its large off-peak consumption. And 
it increases by more than 200% the revenue from the average 
home and is therefore the solution of the profitless lighting 
customer. 

In other words, the electric range is the supreme domestic 
load builder. Not only does it offer the greatest possibilities of 
any undeveloped field today, but it is destined to be one of the 
largest revenue producers of the Electrical Industry. 

So there is a need for a practical handbook covering all the 
problems in the building of a successful range load. And it is 
with this thought and object in mind that this publication is pre- 
pared and produced by The Society for Electrical Development. 

The Society wishes to acknowledge indebtedness to the Central 
Station managers, range manufacturers and members of the 
N. E. L. A. Range Committee whose material was used in the 
compilation of this volume. Thanks is also due the Electrical 
World, Electrical Merchandising and the Electrical Review for 
photographs. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 
FUNDAMENTAL FACTS 

Page 

THE RANGE LOAD 15 

Development — Revenue — Investment — Load — Other Advantages 

RANGE COMPARED WITH APPLIANCES 18 

Based on Averages — Annual Kilowatt- Hour Consumption — Annual Revenue 

COOKING RATES 19 

General Discussion — ^Various Forms of Rates — Central Station Man's 
Opinion 

JUSTIFICATION OF COOKING RATE 24 

Public Service Commission Rulings — An Illinois Decision — ^An Oregon 
Decision 

FINANCING EXTENSIONS 27 

Methods — Pacific Plan — Utah Plan — Cleveland Plan — Customer Ownership 
— Excellent Investment — Where Inaugurated — One Company's Offer — 
The Society's Position — View of St. Louis Company 
(Insert Folder in Back of Book) 

ELECTRIC RANGE DATA FROM 100 CENTRAL STATIONS. 
Range Situation Today — Actual Conditions — Notes — Definitions 

CHAPTER II 
THE ELECTRIC RANGE 

PRACTICABILITY AND SUPREMACY 34 

Evolution of Cooking Devices — Practicability — Supremacy 

CONSTRUCTION AND PRICE 35 

Individuality — General Construction — Oven — Surface Units — Price 

OPERATING COST AND ECONOMY 41 

Governing Factors — Average Figures — Economy of Operation 

ITS PLACE IN THE HOME 42 

Modem Homemaking — Conveniences — Completes the Home 

KITCHENETTE RANGES 45 

Market — Load and Installation 

CHAPTER III 
ELECTRIC COOKERY 

HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT 48 

Introduction — Development — Large Station Sales — Superiority 



ELECTRIC HEAT 51 

Generation — Advantages — Heat Characteristics — Methods of Measuring — 
Comparison with Other Methods 

FIRELESS COOKER PRINCIPLE 52 

Evolution — Purpose — Foods Cooked — The Electric Cooker 



CHAPTER IV 
RANGE LOAD 

INVESTMENT AND RETURN 54 

Average Conditions — Pro-rating Investment 

CHARACTERISTICS OF THE LOAD 55 

Character — Demand and Diversity Factor — Two Examples of Range Loads 



CHAPTER V 
INSTALLATION 

GENERAL 58 

Factors in Installation — Central Stations' Responsibility — Standard Units 

WIRING SPECIFICATIONS 60 

General — Service Connections — Main Line Switches and Meter Loops — 
Range Circuits— Wiring Table — Master Switch — Double-Throw Switches 
for Water Heaters^5rounding Frame 

RECOMMENDATIONS 66 

Voltage— Transformer Capacities — Meter Sizes — Testing the Range 



CHAPTER VI 
MERCHANDISING METHODS 

FIRST IMPORTANT STEPS 71 

General Basic Factors — Revolutionizing Cooking Methods — Co-operation 
of Entire Company — Selling Every "Electrical" Man 

PRICE AND SELLING POLICIES 73 

Price Maintenance — -Merchandising Problems — Time Payments — Trial In- 
stallations — Introductory Offers — Miscellaneous Items 

SALES DEPARTMENT WORK 78 

Organization — Sales Manager's Position — Salesmen's Work — Demonstra- 
tors' Duties— Merchandising Throughout a Territory 

SERVICE DEPARTMENT DUTIES 85 

Organization — Specific Work 

SALESMEN AND DEMONSTRATORS 87 

Their Importance — The Salesman — Why Stores Lose Customers— The 
Demonstrator — Compensation 

RANGE AND PARTS' STOCK 92 

Adequate Stock — Types and Makes — Repair Parts' Stock 



DISPLAYS AND PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS 94 

Variety of Displays — Salesroom — Show Windows— Demonstrations — 
Specific Action 

CAMPAIGNS AND SALES IDEAS 100 

Importance — Activities — Sales Ideas 

PROSPECTS AND FOLLOW-UP WORK 105 

Classification — Class C Prospects — Class B Prospects — Class A Prospects 

SALES DEVELOPMENT 107 

General Work — Domestic Field — Architects and Builders — Securing Their 
Interest — Service Bureau for Architects — Ranges in Apartments — Cooking 
Without a Rate — Domestic Science Field — Commercial Service — Miscel- 
laneous Activity 

OFFICE AND WAREHOUSE FORMS 119 

Prospect Card — Salesman's "Score" Card — Installation Application — Price, 
Inspection and Delivery Card — Range Record Card — Range Trouble Order 

CONTRACTOR-DEALERS' POSITION 124 

Place in Industry — Situation Today — Merchandising Tomorrow — Mutual 
Dependence 



CHAPTER VII 
SELLING POINTS 

SELLING THE ELECTRIC COOKING IDEA 128 

The Prospect — The Idea and Not the Range — Why Women Buy- 
Price not Important 

BETTER COOKED FOOD 135 

Salesman's Knowledge — Science Supersedes Guessing — Methods of Cooking 
—Breads and Pastries — Vegetables — Meats 

ADVANTAGES OF ELECTRIC RANGE 143 

Scientific Cookery — Simplest Operation — Perfect Control — Heat Conser- 
vation — Appreciated Coolness — Utmost Cleanliness — Absolute Safety — 
Economic Factors — Using Appliances on Range Socket 

OVERCOMING OBSTACLES 145 

Price — Operating Cost — "Slower" Operation — Heating Kitchen — Water 
Heating — Teaching Range Operation to Foreign Servants 



CHAPTER VIII 

ADVERTISING 

PURPOSE AND KINDS 150 

Purpose — Methods — Campaign Advertising — Continuous Advertising — 
Direct-by-Mail Literature — Sales Letters — Newspapers, Slides, Movies — 
Educational Work — Feature Advertising — P*ublicity ' 

PLANNING THE CAMPAIGN 164 

Primary Factors — Appropriation — Mediums 

PREPARATION OF COPY 167 

Fundamentals — Copy — Layout 



CHAPTER IX 

SERVICE AND MAINTENANCE 

ELECTRIC COOKING SERVICE 173 

Real Service — Handling Complaints — Pointers for Service Men 
EDUCATING THE NEW USER 175 

Home Demonstrations — Oven — Surface Units — Other Appliances 



CHAPTER X 

ELECTRIC WATER HEATERS 

WATER HEATING 178 

Load — Storage System — Intermittent System — Factors Affecting Monthly 
Bill — Efficiency and Time to Heat Water 

TYPES OF HEATERS 185 

Choosing Equipment — Outside-Circulation Type Water Heater— Inside- 
Circulation Type Water Heater — "Clamp-on" Type Heater — Importance 
of Heat Insulation — Scale Formation 



CHAPTER XI 
COMMERCIAL COOKING APPARATUS 

ELECTRIC BREAD BAKING 194 

Development — Advantages 

BREAD BAKING OVENS 196 

Capacities — Advantages 

COMMERCIAL INSTALLATIONS 198 

Progress — Advantages — Recent Roasting Test 

RESTAURANT COOKING APPARATUS 201 

Kinds on Market — Planning Installations — Rates and Revenue 

CHAPTER XII 

GENERAL RANGE INFORMATION 

STANDARDIZED NAMES OF RANGE PARTS 203 

Nomenclature of Parts which are Included in General Construction of all 
Standard Makes of Electric Ranges 

INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 206 

National Electrical Code — Underwriters' Laboratories — Approved Electric- 
al Fittings 

SOCIETY'S RANGE SERVICE 207 

Editorial Aid — Rate Statistics — Merchandising Service 



ADDENDUM 

RELATIVE COSTS 209 

Figures giving relative costs of cooking by electricity, gas and coal. 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

Page 

Chart Showing Annual Range Revenue Compared with Annual Appliance Revenue. ... 19 

Stock-Selling Window Display of the Northern States Power Co., Minneapolis 27 

Commercial Load Rebate-Contract Form used by Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. 28 

Line Extension Rebate- Contract Form used by the Utah Power 8b Light Co., Salt Lake City 30 

Customer Ownership Advertisement of H. M. 8b Byllesby 8b Co 31 

The Four General Types of Electric Ranges 36, 37, 38 

Model Kitchen of Today 43 

Four Methods of Installing Kitchenette Ranges 45, 46, 47 

Curve Showing a Typical Apartment House Range Load Seven Days of the Week. ... 56 

Range Wiring Diagram 61 

Chart Showing Effect of Variation of Voltage in Heating Range Oven 67 

Competitive Method of Energizing Salesmen 80 

Chart Showing Why Stores Lose Customers 88 

Excellent Range Window Display 95 

Range Prospects Doing Their Own Demonstrating 97 

Demonstration Platform, Utah Power 8b Light Co 98 

Range Demonstration on Automobile Truck 101 

Magazine Postcard of Minneapolis General Electric Co 102 

"Jingle" Advertisement of the Edison Electric Illuminating Co., Boston 103 

Electric Cooking School of the Union Electric Light 8b Power Co., St. Louis 108 

Announcement of Cooking Bureau of Minneapolis General Electric Co 109 

Periodical Recipe Form used by Minneapolis General Electric Co 110 

Newspaper Advertisement of "Free School of Practical Cookery" of the Southern 

California Edison Co Ill 

Range-Apartment Advertisement of the Edison Electric Illuminating Co., Boston 114 

Range- Apartment Advertisement of Union Electric Light 8b Power Co., St. Louis 117 

Range Prospect Cards 120 

Range Installation Application 120 

Salesman's "Score Card." 121 

Price, Inspection and Delivery Card 122 

Range Record Card 123 

Range Trouble Order 124 

Why Women Buy 132 

Range Booklet published by the Southern California Edison Co., Los Angeles 150 

Changeable Panel Billboard of the Central Illinois Public Service Co., Bushnell 153 



Two Sales Letters used by the Utah Power & Light Co., Salt Lake City 154, 160 

Inside Fold of Double-Page Sales Letter, Utah Co 156 

Excellent Range Newspaper Advertisement of the Union Electric Light & Power Co., 

St. Louis 159 

Range Street Car Card of the Edison Electric Illuminating Co., Boston 161 

Newspaper Advertisement of the Charlottesville & Albermarle Railway Co., Va 162 

Diagram Showing How to Layout an Advertisement 170 

Outside-Circulation Type Electric Water Heater 179 

Curve Showing How Hot Water Accumulates at Top of Storage Tank 181 

Two Charts Showing Time Required to Heat Water 186, 187 

Inside-Circulation Type Electric Water Heater 188 

"Clamp-on" Type Electric Water Heater 190 

Pipes Showing Two Months' Scale Formation in Old Type Electric Water Heater 192 

Commercial Cooking Installation in a Western Cafeteria 195 

Modem Type of Large Electric Bread Baking Oven 197 

Large Electric Range Installed in a Southern Apartment House Kitchen 199 

Complete Electric Kitchen in Large Detroit Hospital 201 



CHAPTER I 

FUNDAMENTAL FACTS 
The Range Load 

Development. Central station service is available today in 
17,333 communities of the United States. More than 6,000 of 
these places have an electric cooking rate. 

Wherever the electric range has been extensively and inten- 
sively merchandised it has provided one of the most desirable 
and profitable loads of the central station. 

The principal advantages of the cooking load are but briefly 
outlined here. A more complete description and discussion will 
be found in other chapters. 

Revenue, The electric range load increases the average revenue 
from the home by 200% to 250%, and transforms a little- or 
no -profit customer into a profitable one, and without increas- 
ing the consumer's household expenses. 

The revenue is so large in comparison with the investment 
involved that central stations can afford and are justified in 
making a rate that is only slightly higher than the additional 
cost of generating the current. 

The very limited revenue period of residence lines when used 
for lighting only, demands the intensive use of other devices; 
and the electric range is the best business for the small central 
station which has no industrial power load. 

15 



16 FUNDAMENTAL FACTS 

It is also a most promising device for the large central station 
which must cope with the growing problem of increasing gross 
earnings with little additional capital investment. See Range 
Revenue, page 18 and 19. 

Investment. The range requires little new equipment if the 
system is not already overloaded. 

The overload capacities of transformers and meters and the 
excellent diversity factor of a group of ranges greatly lessen the 
cost of new service equipment which at first thought, might seem 
necessary to handle the increased connected load. 

Often the shifting of transformers from one installation to 
another saves the purchase of new ones. Therefore connections 
can often be made without appreciable increase in the investment. 

The added expense of the extra meter reading, bookkeeping 
and the issuance, delivery and collection of bills is so small it 
need not be considered. See Investment and Return, page 54. 

Load. The range is the chief domestic load builder — consum- 
ing from 300% to 500% more current than any other house- 
hold device. 

It is used three times a day — 365 days in the year — Saturdays, 
Sundays, holidays; and it fills the week-day noon valleys between 
eleven-thirty and one o'clock. 

The value of the range load is due to its large diversified 
daytime consumption of current which not only means an ad- 
ditional 8 to 10 hours' daily use of the residence district lines — 
which are practically idle for about 20 of the 24 hours — but the 
sale of thousands of kilowatt hours. The additional generating 
cost is small but the revenue is profitable. 

It requires little increased station capacity and greatly raises 



THE RANGE LOAD 17 



the load factor and therefore promotes the efficiency of the 
whole system. See Characteristics of the Load, page 55. 

Other Advantages. Electric cookery ties residence customers 
more securely to a utility than does electric lighting because it 
makes them more dependent upon and more appreciative of 
central station service. 

The electric range makes day service possible and immediately 
profitable in hundreds of small non -manufacturing communities. 
Thus it is a dependable beginning for an 18 or 24 hour service — 
and it paves the way for the appliance load. 

Introducing electric ranges in its community shows that the 
central station is doing its part in the conservation of fuel, 
fuel transportation, food, labor and time and that it is taking 
another big step toward the economic and inevitable centralized 
production of cooking energy. 

The establishing of a rate and the active sale of ranges not 
only gives a central station the valuable prestige of being in step 
with the wonderful electrical developments in this country, but 
it promotes good -will and creates the impression of stability and 
constructive progress which becomes a tangible asset for the 
utility when new bond issues and good -will propaganda are 
launched. 

THE GREAT national demand of the day 
is for ''conservation." The electric 
range can conserve more food, fuel 
and labor than any other household device. 
In the United States last year, 132,000,000 
tons of coal were used for domestic pur- 
poses. Millions of tons could be saved if 
every home cooked electrically. The saving 
in the shrinkage of food would be enor- 
mous — likewise the saving in work and time 
because of the millions of people employed 
in preparing food. 



Range Compared with Appliances 

Based on Averages, The yearly revenue of the range proves it 
is the most profitable domestic device for the Electrical Industry. 
As all things should be judged by the law of averages, isolated 
facts, selected figures and individual opinions have been avoided 
and the following figures averaged from reports of a number of 
representative central stations. The rate of $.084 is the weighted 
average for electric light and $.035 the average cooking rate 
in the United States today. 





Annual 






Annual 


Appliances 


Kw-hr. Consumption 


Rate 




Revenue 


RANGE 


1,500 


$.035 


$52.5C 


\ 


Iron 


67 


.084 




5.63 


Cleaner 


25 


.084 




2.10 


Washer 


20 


.084 




1.68 


Toaster 


37.5 


.084 




3.15 


Percolator 


42 


.084 




3.53 


Fan 


31 


.084 




2.60 


Radiator 


96 


.084 




8.06 


Grill 


34 


.084 




2.86 




$29.61 






With Range 


52.50 



$82.11 

Note that the total average revenue of all these popular house- 
hold devices is less than $30 and that of the range alone is over 
$50. For an idea of the revenue being derived today, note that 
the gross revenue from the ranges on the lines of just 100 central 
stations (in the compilation in the back of the book) is over 
$2,500,000 a year. 

18« 



RANGE COMPARED WITH APPLIANCES 



19 



$ so 




This chart graphically illustrates the great difference between the annual 

revenue of the electric range as compared with the annual revenue of the 

popular household appliances. 



Cooking Rates 



General Discussion. By good salesmanship, the central sta- 
tion can secure range business even where high rates have been 
established. But such business will generally be confined to the 
wealthy class which usually has dinner at night. Thus will a 
portion of the load come on the peak. On the other hand, if 
lower rates justify the use of the range by all classes, the diversity 
factor is very favorable and the business becomes a valuable one. 
While local conditions must determine the rate which is eco- 



20 FUNDAMENTAL FACTS 

nomically wise in each instance, it should be borne in mind in 
deciding on a rate that a wide introduction of ranges will tend 
to distribute overhead charges over a longer period of the twenty- 
four hours. The returns which The Society for Electrical Devel- 
opment have received show that in many instances central 
stations which have started with a 5 cent rate have been so well 
pleased with the result of the business secured that they have 
lowered the rate to 4 or 3 cents and in some instances even lower, 
in order to get more of this desirable load on their lines. 

In addition to the advisability of a low rate, there is the need 
for a rate that can be understood by the average person. In 
many rates which are based on the number of rooms, the area 
and demand are so complicated that they tend to create the 
impression of discrimination. While there is doubtless a defense 
for every system, the simpler the form that can be adopted 
the easier it will be for the Sales Department. 

A three-step rate has been inaugurated by a number of com- 
panies, with the plan of using only one meter, thus saving 
expense in meter installation as well as in cost of reading and 
billing. The first step of 15 to 25 kw-hrs. is estimated to take 
care of the lighting service at regular rates ; the second or inter- 
mediate, of the appliance load; the third, a very low rate, covers 
the range business. This rate while not as simple as some, has 
points that appeal to the public and are fair to the central station. 

When a separate meter is used the Boston rate is excellent, 10 
kw-hrs. at 10 cents (which insures a minimum of $1.00 a month), 
then 2 cents per kw-hr. for all in excess. A flat rate for the range 
in undesirable as it leads to an unreasonable use of current. One 
company reports an average consumption on flat rate of 4,800 
kw-hrs. a year and only 1,200 kw-hrs. when meters are installed. 
On the other hand, a flat rate seems desirable when electricity is 



COOKING RATES 21 



used for water heating, the amount to depend on the size of 
the heating unit. The simultaneous use of range and heater 
may be avoided by the installation of a double-throw switch. 

Various Forms of Rates, Many different forms of rates have 
been devised to meet the range load. Six companies on the Paci- 
fic Coast have each adopted entirely different rate systems, but 
each one gives identical results when figured on the basis of a 
monthly consumption of 125 kw-hrs. for cooking, or where com- 
bined rate is used, taking 25 kw-hrs. for lighting and appliances. 
No. 1. Rate 3.6c. net. 

No. 2. Rate 4c. — 10% discount 10 days. Effective Rate 3.6c. 



No. 3. Combined Rate: 1st 30 kw-hrs. per month 7c. 

Excess 33^c. Effective Rate 3.6c. 

No. 4. 1st 50 kw-hrs. per kw active load at 4c. per kw-hr. 
Next 50 kw-hrs. " " " " " 2c. per kw-hr. 
Excess 13^c. 
(Active load figured as 100% for the first 2 kw and 



50% of remainder.) 



Effective Rate 3.6c. 



No. 5. 1st 40 kw-hrs. at 5c. 

Excess 3c. Effective Rate 3.6c. 

No. 6. 1st 25 kw-hrs. at 5c. 

Next 25 kw-hrs. at 4c. 

Excess 3c. 

Discoimt 5% Effective Rate 3.6c. 

In view of this uniformity of return, rate No. 3, which is a com- 
bined rate for all uses of electricity in the home is advantageous 
as the installation requires only one meter and one billing. 



22 FUNDAMENTAL FACTS 

In order to insure the use of the range during the twelve 
months of the year, the Central Station may find it desirable to 
require a monthly minimum especially where a separate meter is 
installed. One dollar is probably too low; two dollars possibly 
too high. The compromise that is fair to both utility and con- 
sumer is to charge twenty-four dollars a year. This does not 
penalize the customer who is away from home for a brief period 
during summer or winter. 

Central Station Man's Opinion. Mr. R. S. Hale of the Edi- 
son Electric Illuminating Company of Boston, in response to an 
inquiry on the subject of range rates, has expressed himself as 
follows : 

"My own position is that we should base our argument on the 
combination of the two rates. 

For instance, that a Hghting rate of ten cents without any 
cooking might pay. 

That a cooking rate of say 3 cents without any lighting would 
not pay. 

That a lighting rate of 3 cents would not pay. 

On the other hand, that a rate of 9 cents for lighting and 3 
cents for cooking would pay, and would be to the advantage of 
both the customer and the central station. 

Supposing you were considering the lighting business alone, 
you have to put in feeders, mains, service, transformers, etc. 
and then supply the current. 

Supposing the lighting rate is 10 cents: No one will do any 
cooking at this rate. The result is that the income from the 
lighting business has to pay all the expenses. 

Now, however, suppose you put in a cooking rate that is not 
higher than the traffic will bear, as for instance a 3 cent rate: 
The result is that you get the cooking business. 

The additions to the expenses are for coal and also, provided 
the cooking peak comes at the same time as the lighting peak 



COOKING RATES 23 



(as it frequently does) some additional generating expenses at 
the station. 

The additional investment at the station does not, however, 
cost anything near as much as the initial investment. 

Further, when you come to distribution the addition of the cook- 
ing load does not require any increase in the poles, cross arms, 
etc., and only requires a very slight addition to the copper. 

It is obvious, therefore, that adding a cooking load to the lighting 
load will not cost anything like as much as the cost of the lighting 
load alone. 

If taking on additional kilowatt hours for a cooking load costs 
only 1 i/^c each, and you can get an income of 3 cents each, the 
additional profit will be a net gain to the central station, enabling 
it ultimately to reduce the lighting rate. 

The only way to get this is to quote a rate for the cooking not 
higher than the traffic will bear. 

It is, of course, essential to be sure that the cooking rate is high 
enough to return a profit over and above the added expenses in- 
curred in supplying it. 

You will note that this theory justifies a cooking load entirely 
irrespective of the load factor, diversity factor, demand factor, 
etc. 

In practice, however, there is some diversity between the cook- 
ing and lighting, cooking and power, etc., and this makes the 
cooking even more profitable. 

The essential point, however, is that the cooking rate must be 
low enough to get the business. 

The cooking rate need not be figured on the same basis as the 
lighting rate, provided the income from the cooking is enough 
to take care of the added expense. 

In case there is a margin, the cooking rate should approach the 
upper limit, and should be kept right up to the amount of what 
the traffic will bear, because the fact that it might be possible to 
supply cooking at a still lower rate is no reason why the cooking 
customers should get the advantage. 

When the combination of the cooking and lighting rate increases 
the income to the company more than the increase in expense, 



24 FUNDAMENTAL FACTS 

then all the customers of the company should be entitled to share 
in this advantage and not the cooking customers alone. 

So much for the theory on which we justify the cooking rate to 
ourselves. If you will think of it, it is exactly the same principle 
on which we make the power rate lower than the lighting rate 
in the cases where the load factor and time of use of the two 
customers, power and light, are the same." 

Justification of Cooking Rate 

Public Service Commission Rulings, The various state 
public utilities commissions of the United States have never 
refused permission to a central station to establish a low cooking 
rate — a rate far below the domestic lighting charge and ofttimes 
lower than the rate to small power consumers. 

The justification of this low charge is well expressed in the 
rulings of the rate-governing bodies. In selecting decisions which 
would be representative of their general attitude toward the cook- 
ing rate, the following excerpts were chosen from certain reports 
of the commissions of Illinois and Oregon. 

These decisions were selected because of the experience of these 
commissions with range rates under opposite conditions. Water 
power predominates in Oregon, steam generation in Illinois. 
Both states are centers of great range activity and localities 
where the low rate for cookery has proved its legitimacy and its 
necessity to central station development. 

An Illinois Decision. The first quotation is from the Illinois 
Commission's report of the case of Risser & Rollins, Paxton vs. 
The Central Illinois Utilities Company, July 1916: 

"First — The heating and cooking load in the city of Paxton does 
not occur at the time of either the daily or yearly station peak, 
which presents advantages to the company in that it is better 



JUSTIFICATION OF COOKING RATE 25 

enabled to utilize to advantage its investment in generating 
capacity. 

Second — Since a large portion of the company's investment is 
represented by distribution circuits serving residence consumers 
and, since with only a lighting load being handled from these 
distribution circuits, the same are unused for a large portion of 
the day, a service such as the heating and cooking service herein 
considered, which furnishes a load for these residential distri- 
bution circuits during the daytime, enables the company to 
utilize to advantage an investment which would otherwise lie 
dormant during eighteen or twenty hours of every day. 

Third — Customers for the heating and cooking service are us- 
ually not new customers of the company but are already receiv- 
ing lighting service, which means that they are already provided 
with a service connection and transformer which will at least par- 
tially satisfy the requirements for heating and cooking service. 

Fourth — The cooking rate in force by the respondent has been 
found by experience to be as high a rate as can be secured for 
this service which is in direct competition with other means of 
cooking, such as coal, gas and gasoline. 

Fifth — Particularly in the smaller communities, where little 
manufacturing exists, the only hope which can be seen for re- 
ducing the rates for general service lies in the development of 
heating and cooking business and, if this business can be secured 
at a rate sufficient to meet the actual added expense which it 
throws upon the utility, plus a small margin of profit, the effect 
upon the general business of the company will be to enable it to 
transact its business as a whole at a lower cost per kilowatt-hour, 
which will naturally be reflected in the rates for general electric 
service tending to effect a reduction of the same. 

In consideration of this sort it must, of course, be realized 
that theory must in many cases give way to practice. The theo- 
retically ideal situation would exist if each class of service paid 
its proportionate share of the cost of doing business, plus its pro- 
portionate share of the profits to be realized upon the investment. 
In many cases, however, if this theory were strictly followed, 



26 FUNDAMENTAL FACTS 

the business of the company and the actual best interests of the 
consumers would suffer materially in that rates would be devel- 
oped which would be so high that they would not attract the 
class of business to which they are applicable." 

An Oregon Decision. This second extract is from a decision 
made by the Oregon Public Service Commission in the case of 
the City of Grants Pass et al. vs. California-Oregon Power Co., 
July 1917: 

With the high class business attached to the system at rates 
reasonable in comparison with the value of the service given 
therefor, additional service may be extended to other use at 
lower rates — necessarily less on account of the lower value of 
the service — which may approach, but should in no case go 
below, the actual additional cost of providing that service. The 
acquisition of such business, especially if it be served by facilities 
already used for other purposes, and at a time when such facilities 
are idle, may be accomplished at rates considerably above the 
additional cost incurred and under such conditions will tend to 
decrease the average unit cost of energy to all classes previously 
served. Low value business thus becomes an attractive asset, and 
its promotion, under these conditions, a benefit to all consumers. 
This appears to us to be a fundamental principle in the develop- 
ment of utility business, and one which, if neglected, may retard 
the progress of any enterprise. 

Proper consideration must also be given to the distinction be- 
tween costs incident to customers, as such, those attached 
directly to the quantity of product delivered and fixed costs or 
those such as interest, etc., which occur without regard to the 
volume of product delivered by a given plant or the number of 
customers connected thereto. The latter group especially in 
hydro -electric operations comprise a large percentage of total 
annual cost of service and its equitable distribution among con- 
sumers, together with proper consideration of purely customer 
costs is a prime necessity if the rate is to be satisfactory to the 
consumer and at the same time produce the desired return. 



JUSTIFICATION OF COOKING RATE 



27 




Attractive window display of the Northern States Power Co., Minneapolis, 

the object of which was to create interest in Customer Ownership and 

further the sale of the company's stock. Note that payments were as low 

as $5 a month. 

Diversity factors in individual installations and between classes 
of consumers, and also probable load factors enter into rate 
making to a degree which precludes discussion at this time. 



Financing Extensions 

Methods, Among the methods of financing extensions are two 
popular plans: One is to have the customer pay for the exterior 
wiring and other necessary expense and return the money to him 
by remitting a portion of the monthly bill until the whole amount 
is repaid. The other plan is to sell securities in small lots to cus- 
tomers. Three successful plans which are now in operation by 
three large central stations are outlined here. Customer Owner- 
ship is also described. 



THE ILLUMINATING COMPANY 

CONSUMER'S CHARGE APPLICATION 

FOR COMMERCIAL LOADS IN EXCESS OF 5-KW. CAPACITY 

Applies in any instance where the company is required to make an expenditure for the installaUon or construclion of the 
following: 
SWITCHING APPARATUS: , 

For additional or specific switch gear, meters, instruments, panels, frames, control, cables and buses, connections and 
transformers, in switch houses or substations. 
SUBWAYi , _, . , 

For additional or specific subway from generating plant to substation, from substation to consumer's premises, from 
generating plant to consumer's premises, or from substation to substation, or from substation to point of feeding overhead 
fine, or from existing distribution system to consumer's premises. 
CABLE: . . ^ . 

For additional or specific transmission or distribution cable from generating plant to substation, from substation to con- 
sumer's premises, from generating plant to consumer's premises, or from substation to substation, or from substation to point 
of feeding overhead line, or from existing distribution system to consumer's premises. 
OVERHEAD LINES— LINE EXTENSIONS: 

For additional or specific overhead lines, including poles or towers, with necessary and usual equipment, wire, lightning 
arresters, line switches, ground wires or connections, or for any work on existing poles or towers, with all the attendant equip- 
ment as aforesaid, for increasing the existing distribution system or transmitting direct to consumer's premises. 
TRANSFORMERS: 

For any step-up or step-down transformers located in switch houses, substations, line houses or other stAiclures, not 
otherwise specified. 
SERVICE ON CONSUMER'S PREMISES: ^ . 

For the installation of poles, towers, lines, ducts, cables and vaults; also, where the transformer capacity to be installed 
exceeds 50 kw., for the transformers and switches required; and for special transformers of 50 kw. capacity or less. 

Name Date 191 

Premises 

The undersigned hereby makes application to The Cleveland Electric Illumina*ing Company to install or construct, at the 
expense of the applicant, the following described work: 

The above work is to supply kw. line capacity lo the above premises, which capacity the company agrees 

to hold and reserve to the use of the applicant for ten years from the commencement of supply, subject to federal, state, county, 
township or municipal regulation. 

1. The apphcant deposits herewith the sum of dollars (t ), 

which is the estimated cost of the above work, upon the understanding that the work constructed shall at all times 
be and remain the property of the Illuminating Company. 

2. Refund to the amount of doUjirs ($ ), which is the estimated cost of 

the above described work as of July 1, 1914, and hereinafter called the normal cost, will be made to the applicant, 
subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter specified: 

(a) on the current taken and used by the applicant from the work constructed under this application; and 

(b) in addition, on the current taken and Used by- other consumers connected to the line or lines constructed under this 
application, except where the work constructed consists of feeders or an addition to the network in the general distribu- 
tion system of the company, in which event refund to the applicant will be made only on the current used by those 
consumers who are connected to that part of the work specifically constructed for the applicant which extends beyond 
the network in the general distribution system of the company; provided, however, that in no case shall the amount 
refunded to the applicant on the current used bV any such consumer exceed the normal cost of that portion of the 
work constructed which is useful in serving such consumer. 

3. The amount to be refunded to the applicant shall be based upon the current taken and used within ten years after 
commencement of supply, but the total amount of the refund shall not exceed the normal cost of the work herein 
applied for. 

4 The refund will be computed at a rate per unit as deterilltined by the following formula: 

dollars 

Refund rate per kilowatt hour = ■ 

36000 X contracted kilowatt demand 
The sum of money in the above formula is the normal cost of the above-described work. The refund will be paid by the 
company to the applicant annually, subject to the conditions herein stated. 

The kilowatt demand in the above formula is the capacity contracted for herein and reserved to the use of the applicant 
bythe company. 

5. No refund or interest shall be paid unle.ss the apphcant's bills for current have been paid in full; nor shall any annual 
refund payment exceed fifty per cent (SOSo) of the- sum of the bills for the current taken and used within the refund 
period from the work constructed under this application as herein provided. 

6. The company reserves the right to refund at any time all or any part of the unrefunded portion of the normal cost of 
the specified work. 

7 No refund nor interest whatsoever will be allowed on the excess cost of the specified work, which excess is the 
difference between the normal cost and the amount deposited. 

8. Interest, not exceeding six per cent (6%) per annum, will be paid bv the company to the applicant annilally, upon the 
balance of the normal cost held at that time and subject to be refunded as herein provided. The annual rate of interest 
will be computed by the formula: 

Rate = 6/10 of l%Xaverage hours use per day of the contracted kilowatt demand. 
The hours' use per day of the kilowatt demand in the above formula shall be determined bT dividing the monthly average 
of the kilowatt-hours upon which refund is allowed by thirty (30) times the demand contracted for herein. 

9. The' interest and refund periods will be considered as terminating on the first day of February of each year, and pay- 
ments shall be made to the applicant, as above provided for, upon the tenth day of the same month. 

Canvassed -•; i SJgned 

Deposit Receipt Np. . ^ 

All quotatidns made under this application are subject to change without notice. 

All work to be performed is subject to delays due to receipt of material, strikes or labor shortage. 



FINANCING EXTENSIONS 29 

Pacific Plan. The Pacific Power and Light Company, Portland, 
Oregon, requires an estimated annual revenue from the instal- 
lation of 50% of the cost of the line — before building an exten- 
sion. The company arrived at this figure by referring to a report 
of the Public Service Commission of Washington on the valuation, 
earnings, etc. of the company made in 1914 and 1915. This report 
shows that the company has invested 47.8 percent in station 
equipment, 15.3 percent in transmission lines, 5.8 percent in 
sub -stations and 28.2 percent in distribution lines. For every 
dollar invested, the gross earnings amounted to 14 cents and net 
earnings to 6.5 cents. In other words, the net earnings were 6.5 
percent of the investment. 

With these figures in mind, the company reasoned as follows: 
Assuming 6.5 percent as adequate rate of return, gross earnings 
of 14 cents must be secured on every dollar of total investment 
of which 28.2 cents is in transmission lines. Conversely then, 
with every 28.2 cents in transmission lines, gross earnings must 
amount to 49.6 cents — and an income of 50 cents on every dollar 
invested in distribution lines must be demanded. These figures 
of course do not make allowance for depreciation. 

Utah Plan, The Range Load Rebate-Contract form used by the 
Utah Power & Light Company, Salt Lake City, is illustrated here 
and is self-explanatory. This form can be adopted by the 
majority of companies. Permission is hereby granted to anyone 
by the Utah Company. 

Cleveland Plan, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company 
of Cleveland, Ohio is one of the pioneer utilities in the financing 
of line extensions by customers. The form used by this company 
is reproduced on the opposite page and may be used verbatim 
by any central station. 



30 FUNDAMENTAL FACTS 



UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 

RECEIPT 

ON LINE EXTENSION FOR ELECTRIC SERVICE 

101. 



Received from • herein called the "Consumer," 

( „ 88 an advance to apply on the cost of extending this Company's line to serve the Consumer's 

premises at No under application for service 

No 

Said advance will be repaid to the consumer: 

(a) One-third of each monthly bill for service furnished at the above address, when the balance of such bill is paid: 

(b) As users of this Company's service at other premises on the above extension shall contract for service, this 
Company will re-pay to the Consumer, $20.00. less the cost of making comiection, for each lighting customer connected 
to the extension, and $30.00, less the cost of making connection for each electric-range customer to the extension until the 
total of such payments under this and the preceding paragraph shall equal the amount of the above advance, without interest. 

The obligation to repay shall cease in any event if, and whenever service at the above address shall be permanently 
disconlmued. ^^^^ POWER & LIGHT COMPANY. 



Uy 

Sales Manager. 
The foregoing receipt correctly recites the conditions under which the deposit therein menUoned has been made. 



Consumer. 



Range load rebate-contract form for line extensions used by the Utah 
Power & Light Co., Salt Lake City. This is another method of securing 
the customer's financial co-operation with the utility. 



Customer Ownership, An increasing number of the repre- 
sentative public utility companies in America are selling secur- 
ities to their customers in small lots today. This resume of 
Customer Ownership will prove interesting to executives who 
have not studied the plan. 

Customer Ownership has been introduced because it is an 
excellent builder of good-will which is very essential in the 
satisfactory operation of a utility. As the question of securing 
additional capital is paramount today with the majority of 
central stations, selling securities locally is one of the best so- 
lutions of the problem. 

Excellent Investment. Central stations which have introduced 
this plan found that customers owning stock are more appreci- 
ative of the service and also better prospects for additional ap- 
pliances. 



mustbe inwiipdtoinate every a^kleiisedinwar 




Invest Soundly in Essential Industries 

Supplying the Vital Necessities of Power, Light and Heat 

Our 7% Preferred Stock is Now a Most Popular Investment in This City 



THE ComplroUer of the Currency of the United StaUs 
— John Skelton Williams — says — "The continued and 
increasing eflBciency of these corporations is import- 
ant for the successful conduct of the war." 
Public utility companies require additional capital in order to 
meet the urgent demands for service now pressing upon them. 
Thit situation is your opportunity for sound and profitable 
investment. 

The Preferred Stock of our Company is a thoroughly sound 
investment— backed by modern physical property, careful 
and progressive management, and a long record of dividend- 
paying success. 

A large number of our customers are already profU-sharing 
partners in our organization. More are investing now than 



ever before. The stability of these industries^the steady 

demand for their services in war and peace — the continuous 

growth in business year after year — combine to make this 

investment most attractive. 

Dividend checks are mailed to your address regularly every 

three months. The Company pays the normal federal income 

tax. 

The partial payment plan, of investing in our Preferred Stock, 

is being utilized by many to save and invest at the same 

time. Five dollars per share a month makes you a preferred 

partner. 

"The Straight Koad to Financial Independence" is the title 

of a booklet we have distributed to our customers. Have you 

read your copy? It is worth dollars to you. 



INQUIRY COUPON 









NAME OF COMPANY 
Street Address 






Please send me complete 
investment offering: 


information regarding your 


Name 










• 





Get in touch with us by telephone or letter, and 
learn more about what we have to offer you 

Telephone Number 

Name of Company 

Name of Manager Street Address 



Newspaper advertisement usedby the H. M. Byllesby Co. in their campaign 
to sell preferred stock. Note that this advertisement is supplemented by a 
booklet "The Straight Road to Financial Independence." 



32 FUNDAMENTAL FACTS 

Securities in public utilities are excellent investments as: 

1. The earnings are stable and because the central station 
supplies a necessity of community life. Therefore it is practically 
independent of the violent fluctuations in general business con- 
ditions. 

2. The central station field is unlimited for the further develop- 
ment of business among present customers in addition to the 
enormous growth resulting from line extensions and the increase 
in population. 

3. They are protected by the State Public Utilities Commissions 
through regulation of issues of securities of successful public 
utility companies. 

4. A higher income may be secured through investment in 
carefully selected public utilities' securities than can be secured 
by investment in any securities of equal merit. 

Where Inaugurated, Among the fifty or more companies 
which have actively promoted Customer Ownership are the 
following : 

H. M. Byllesby & Co., Chicago, 111. including Northern States 
Power Co., Minneapolis; San Diego (Cal.) Consolidated Gas 
& Electric Co. ; Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. ; Western States 
Gas & Electric Co., Stockton, Cal.; Louisville (Ky.) Gas 8b 
Electric Co. 

Mahoning & Shenango Ry. 8b Lt. Co., Youngstown, Ohio. 

Pacific Power 8b Light Co., Portland, Ore. 

Idaho Power Co., Boise, Idaho. 

Union Electric Light 8b Power Co., St. Louis, Mo. 

Consolidated Gas, Elec. Lt. 8b Pr. Co., Baltimore, Md. 

Pacific Gas 8b Electric Co., San Francisco, Cal. 

One Company's Offer. "To any customer (or employe), we 
shall sell at par, $100 a share, in ten equal monthly payments, 
or for cash, from one to twenty shares of the Seven Per Cent 
Cumulative Preferred Stock of the Mahoning & Shenango Railway 
& Light Company (Youngstown, Ohio). 



FINANCING EXTENSIONS 33 

**Ten dollars a share is paid at the time of subscription and 
$10 a share on or before the 10th of each month till the full price 
has been paid. 

''Interest at 6 percent per annum will be allowed on all pay- 
ments till the final payment is made, when the investment will 
begin to earn 7 percent. 

"Payments may be withdrawn upon reasonable notice at any 
time before the purchase is completed. 

"Your subscription will be received at any office, or our repre- 
sentative will call at your convenience. Dividends on three or 
four shares will return to you, each year, enough to pay the 
average residential light bill for a year." 

The Society's Position. The Society does not recommend Cus- 
tomer Ownership of securities for every community, but it will 
put any central station man in immediate possession of facts and 
offer suggestions for determining courses of action. 

View of St. Louis Company. James D. Mortimer, President 
of the Union Electric Light & Power Company of St. Louis, in 
discussing various problems confronting public utilities, has said: 

"The ideal system of ownership is one wherein each customer has 
a proprietary interest in the utiUty in proportion to the service 
rendered him. This we are endeavoring to formulate through our 
movement to sell stock to customers. We believe in the eventual 
mutual ownership of public utilities as the best from the stand- 
point of the customer's and from every social and economic view. 
Such a movement if carried to the possible limit would greatly 
promote community and individual thrift and prevent public 
utilities from serving as a bone of contention in politics. There 
would then be ^o demand for ownership by the municipality, 
and the problems of regulation would comprise only those of 
seeing that the charges for services were equitably distributed as 
between the different classes of customers." 



CHAPTER II 

THE ELECTRIC RANGE 

Practicability and Supremacy 

Evolution of Cooking Devices. The art of cookery is as old 
as history. Its development measures the development of civil- 
ization. And in the evolution of its methods, the generation, 
application and utilization of the heat has kept pace with the 
increased cost of the successive fuels. 

The first cooking was done on a large flat stone heated by the 
sun. The cost of fuel was nil, operation undependable, results 
poor. The next method was the open fire on the ground. The 
results were better, but only in proportion to the cost of the 
fuel which was the labor of gathering the wood. And so on 
through the centuries with the varied uses of wood, fuel oil, coal 
and natural and artificial gas, the cost of the fuel has always 
been on a par with its utilization and the cooking results. 

Practicability. Today electricity produces the best and ulti- 
mate heat energy. Its dollar and cents cost is sometimes more 
than fuel heat but it is applied and conserved so scientifically 
that the electric range is vastly more efficient than its predecessor. 
Thus its cost compares favorably with fuel heat. 

The practicability of the electric range lies in its perfect per- 
formance and product. Not only does the device fit in with the 
scientific development of the age and the cleanliness and efficiency 

34 



PRACTICABILITY AND SUPREMACY 35 

of the home but it is the only stove in which perfect cookery is 
accomplished by the control of the heat instead of the continuous 
basting, shifting and stirring of the food. 

Supremacy. The electric range stands supreme because it does 
not have the disadvantages, faults and inconveniences of the fuel 
stove. It is the only cooking appliance which does its work miles 
away from the hot, dirty work of building, lighting, feeding and 
watching the "fire" and cleaning-up the waste material of the fuel. 
The range does not dry-out, burn nor over-cook foods; will 
not soot pots nor discolor the walls and woodwork; cannot 
vitiate the air, devitalize the housewife nor kill the plants; does 
not heat the kitchen and tend to melt the ice in summer; will 
not burn-in grease or warp the pots and skillets nor does the 
heat fluctuate or is it affected by atmospheric conditions. More- 
over the range eliminates the use of matches and flame ; prevents 
the danger of fire, explosion and asphyxiation; saves fuel storage 
space and is the biggest factor in helping keep the kitchen as 
clean as any other room in the house. For these detailed features 
see Advantages of Electric Range, page 143. 

Construction and Price 

Individuality, The electric range is as radically different from 
the fuel range as the $7 electric iron is from the 50 cent sad iron. 
Its remarkable effectiveness is secured through its scientific 
design — the result being made possible and practicable through 
the medium of electric heat with its flameless, sootless and 
an odorless operation, uniform intensity and economic utilization. 

General Construction, The range is an electrical development 
— not merely an improved stove. The fundamentals of its con- 



36 



THE ELECTRIC RANGE 




General cabinet type electric range 



struction and operation are based and dependent on the scientific 
utilization of electric heat. 

The electric ranges on the market today are as strongly made 
and as efficient and durable in service as the sturdy electric 
motor. They embody only the best electrical and mechanical 
construction, are attractive in appearance and designed so that 
all parts may be readily cleaned and easily repaired. The resis- 
tance wire which is used in the standard makes is a combination 
of nickel and chromium — an alloy of maximum resistance and 
minimum oxidation. 



CONSTRUCTION AND PRICE 



37 




General cabinet-type electric range with 
broiler and warming compartment. 



The majority of manufacturers employ individual fusing. This 
means each surface and oven unit has its own fuse and a separate 
connection to the main line. The advantage lies in their inde- 
pendence. Should trouble occur, the entire range is not out of 
service and the cookery may be continued with other surface 
or oven units. 

This is an advantage that would be greatly appreciated should 
trouble occur during the preparation of a meal on a Sunday or 
holiday when repair service might not be immediately available. 

Each standard make of range has been tested and approved 



38 



THE ELECTRIC RANGE 





General type of low-oven 
electric range. 



General type of elevated- 
oven electric range. 



by the National Board of Fire Underwriters. For description of 
this organization see page 207. 

Oven, Range ovens are made in two designs : The regular type 
and the automatic type. The difference between them lies in the 
automatic, thermostatic control of the latter type through the 
medium of a circuit breaker. 

The basic design of the electric range oven incorporates all the 
good points and omits all the imperfections of both the fireless 
cooker and the old-style fuel oven. The walls are thickly packed 
with a heat-insulating material which conserves the heat. The 



CONSTRUCTION AND PRICE 39 

doors fit tightly like those of a refrigerator. All the best makes 
have an oven vent of a scientific character. 

The ovens usually have two units — one each at the top and 
bottom. Some oven units are permanently installed, others 
easily removable which facilitates periodical cleaning. The 
standard control is by three-heat switches. 

Surface Units. Surface units are made in three types: En- 
closed-type, reflector-type, and open-coil-type. The heat-move- 
ment principle of the enclosed type is Conduction ; of the reflector 
type Radiation; of the open-coil-type, Radiation and Conduc- 
tion — Conduction when the cooking vessel comes in direct con- 
tact with the heat-insulating receptacle of the unit. For de- 
scription of these principles see Electric Heat, page 51. 

The enclosed type is composed of resistance wire enclosed within 
a metal plate. The reflector type consists of open coils of wire 
held in position by an insulated frame and under this a reflector 
with a highly polished surface. With this type of unit, the utensil 
gets both direct and reflected rays of heat. The open-coil unit 
is composed of coils of resistance wire fastened in grooves of 
a plate made of heat-resisting porcelain or composition. 

The efficiencies and characteristics of these three types cannot 
be discussed here. It is foreign to the plan of the book. All three 
types however give excellent results and have proven to be satis- 
factory to both their users and the central stations. Each type 
moreover is very strongly constructed and guaranteed for one 
year from date of purchase by user. Standard control is by 
three-heat switches. 

Price, The average electric range today costs considerably more 
than the average fuel range of equal cooking capacity because 
it requires approximately 100% more material and labor in its 



40 THE ELECTRIC RANGE 

construction. It contains virtually every part of a fuel range and 
in addition requires surface and oven electric heating units, their 
costly resistance wire, fireless cooker construction, oven insu- 
lation, switches, fuses, asbestos lining, terminals, bushings, con- 
necting wires and the high-priced skilled labor necessary for the 
assembling, wiring and welding of the many electrical parts. 

So the first thing a salesman should do is to realize and "sell" 
himself on its careful construction and the ample justification of 
the price. A trip through a range factory would forcibly drive 
home the first point and an analysis of manufacturing costs would 
prove the second one. 

A few central station men look at the seemingly high price of 
the electric range as retarding to its sales. Others do not. The 
question is an arbitrary one — depending on viewpoint — hut 
primarily on salesmanship! See Selling the Electric Cookery Ideay 
page 128. 



DO NOT use the word Burner when des- 
ignating a surface or oven unit. 
Webster's Dictionary defines Burner 
as "That part of a lamp or gas fixture where 
the flame is produced." To the average per- 
son, Burner implies fire and flame. The 
electric range is without fire and flame and 
therefore the terms Surface Unit and Oven 
Unit have been recommended. 



Operating Cost and Economy 

Governing Factors. The cost of operating an electric range is 
dependent upon so many factors that discussion is futile. Elec- 
tric cooking bills vary with the rate, the number in family, the 
character of the cooking and the care used by the operator. So 
the way to estimate its cost is to take the average figure for the 
average family and decrease or increase this in proportion to the 
importance of the governing factors. 

Average Figures. The average consumption is 125 kw-hrs. a 
month. The average rate is 33^ cents per kw-hr. The average 
household consists of 5 persons. The average monthly bill is 
$4.37 per month. 

Five persons using 125 kw-hr. of electrical energy in thirty 
days approximates 0.85 kw.-hr. per person per day. This figure 
can be used for estimating the cost for a household of five. 
Another person more or less slightly increases or decreases the 
consumption. Six persons do not consume 100% more current 
than three persons. The current consumption is much less per 
person with the increased number in the family. 

The character of the cooking is a big factor in the bill. If 
fancy cooking is done — breads and pastries baked constantly 
and soup stocks made frequently — the bill for current will of 
course be much larger than for a family which prefers simple 
cooking and buys bread and pastry from a local bakery. 

The cook is another factor. If she does not make use of the 
conserved heat, does not turn off all the electricity when she has 
finished cooking and if she heats water several times a day for tea, 
the bill will greatly exceed the one next door where the housewife 
takes advantage of every opportunity to conserve the current. 

41 



42 THE ELECTRIC RANGE 

Economy of Operation. The price of the range and the cost 
of operation should never enter into a sale until the prospect has 
been thoroughly sold on the idea and the advantages of electric 
cookery! Then, if she is deterred by the first cost, overcome that 
obstacle by suggesting the small monthly payment plan. If she 
thinks the slight increase in the cost of operation is not justified, 
point out the many savings which are worth so much to her per 
month and which, when added together, will make the monthly 
bill seem small compared with the value received. 

For example, the housewife with a fuel range scrubs the soot 
from 10 pots and skillets a day — total 300 a month. The saving 
of this work and time is worth at least a cent a time per pot — 
which is $3. Moreover, it is worth so much per month to be rid 
of the constant danger of fire, explosion and asphyxiation; so 
much per month to have more nourishing and juicier foods. 
When these many advantages are added together and a value 
placed upon them, electric cookery becomes the most inexpensive 
of any method today. See Operating Costs, page 145. 

Its Place in the Home 

Modern Homemaking, Homemaking is a profession and no 
other occupation in the world compares with it — in its importance 
to the welfare and comfort of the human race, physically, men- 
tally, morally and financially. 

Today home management and domestic science are recognized 
as important factors in a woman's education. Not only are there 
hundreds of home-economics institutes but courses on the sub- 
ject are included in the curriculums of the majority of high 
schools and colleges. Domestic science and homemaking sec- 
tions are featured also in national women's magazines and new 
books on the subject are continually being published. 



OPERATING COST AND ECONOMY 



43 




A modern kitchen of 1919 — containing an electric range, white-porcelain 
refrigerator, white-enamel kitchen cabinet, white-enamel dish closet, 
porcelain-top kitchen table, white-enamel chair and stool, percolator, 
scale and other labor-saving and efficiency appliances. The kitchen of 
today can be and should be as modernly equipped as the finest office. 

So the housewife of today is learning her trade. By the use of 
many domestic labor-saving devices, she is able to modernize 
her home, do better work in less time and even reduce her daily 
household expenses. This also enables her to cope with the chang- 
ing social conditions: The permanent scarcity and high wages of 
servants, the increased price of food, clothes and home neces- 
sities and the demands on her time for social duties, charities 
and other work. 



Conveniences. The modern home has generally, a telephone, 
electric light, a scientifically-made refrigerator, electric washer, 
electric cleaner and many other time- labor- and material -saving 
appliances because they are not only conducive to better living 
but practical and economical — all factors considered. 

Everything in the modern home makes for cleanliness and 
comfort with one exception: The fuel range. The fuel range in 



44 THE ELECTRIC RANGE 

a clean modern kitchen is on a par with the horse in an up-to-date 
garage. The fuel range is dirty, unreliable, unhealthful and 
it demands a great deal of attention. So it is continually being 
replaced by the electric range with its flameless heat, uniform 
generation and distribution and its scientific operation just as 
the automobile is superseding the horse. 

Completes the Home, The electric range fits into domestic 
life today because it regenerates and modernizes the one old- 
fashioned and yet the most active and important department of 
the home — the kitchen. 

Moreover it plays a dominating part in the scheme of efficient 
housekeeping and completes the home. It is one of the biggest 
factors in permitting the housewife to do her own work, easily, 
happily and without loss of pride! 

The conservation of time and labor pays for its first cost and 
the conservation of food for its operation. It is not a luxury 
any more than the telephone or the electric cleaner. Therefore 
it "belongs^' — and it has a well-defined place in the home today! 



**rpHE HISTORY of Civilization proves 
I that human beings are not satisfied 
with cheapness. If we were willing 
to utilize the cheapest article which would 
serve our purpose, we would today be 
cooking over wood fires; we would be wear- 
ing denim trousers; we would be walking 
instead of burning 28 cent gasoline; and we 
would be eating rice and lentils instead of 
squab and alligator pears. Moreover we are 
not satisfied with the old, uncomfortable 
laborious time-killing ways of doing things. 
We want speed, comfort, luxury. And we 
are willing to pay for it.** 



Kitchenette Ranges 



Market, Owing to the high cost of living particularly in the big 

cities, there has been a steadily increasing demand for smaller 

and more compact apartments. Families living in residences have 

moved to apartments. Families in 

apartments have moved to smaller 

apartments. In the city today, the 

parlor is often a thing of the past. It 

is now a living room. These conditions 

have led to the remodelling of large 

houses into small suites, the majority 

having a small living room, bedroom, 

bath and kitchenette. 

As a rule the kitchenette is merely 
a closet or a recess in the wall for the 
cooking device. This condition de- 
mands not only a small and compact, 
but a clean, cool and handy cooking 
device. And this is found in the elec- 
tric kitchenette range which is a 
combination hot-plate and portable 
oven. This device can be installed in 
a little recess or compartment built 
into the wall, in closets, on the backs 
of closet doors, on pivot doors and 
in fact almost any little out-of-the- 
way place. These ranges are also 
used in summer homes, domestic 
science schools, studios, buffets, soda 
fountains and similar places. 

45 




Large size kitchenette range 
installed in a recess of a 
former butler's pantry. This 
residence has been remod- 
elled into small apart- 
ments of two and three 
rooms with kitchenettes. 
The electric range is ideal 
for such installations be- 
cause it is the cleanest, 
coolest, most convenient 
and most compact cooking 
device. 



46 



THE ELECTRIC RANGE 




Two methods of installing 
kitchenette ranges: On the back 
of a pantry door and on the 
back of a "pivot" door. When 
the cooking is being done the 
door is closed and the odors 
escape through a ventilator in 
the ceiling of pantry. Thus the 
"kitchen" is enclosed within 
the pantry and this room elim- 
inated in the small apartment. 




Load and Installation. The connected load of the average 
kitchenette range is from two to three kilowatts. The average 
demand is very low and it is therefore a most desirable current- 
consuming device for the central station because in such small 
apartments only breakfast and luncheon are prepared by the 
housewife. The family generally has dinner at a restaurant. 

In installing these kitchenette ranges on pivot doors or on 
the backs of pantry doors the connections are generally made 
with a flexible steel-armored conductor with sufficient slack to 
allow for the full opening of the door. (Note illustrations.) 



KITCHENETTE RANGES 



47 




Another popular type of kitchenette 
on a more elaborate scale. It is gen- 
erally an enclosed compartment in 
the dining room and is a complete 
kitchen in itself, with a two-surface-unit and 
oven range, full-sized sink, dish closet and food 
and cooking utensil compartments. Note how 
snugly and compactly this particular type of 
kitchenette range fits into its place! The doors 

of the compartment have glass panels, the inside of which are 
generally curtained. When the kitchenette is not in use, the doors 
are closed and give the appearance of doors leading to another 
room. Such a kitchenette can also be installed in studios, bachelor 
apartments, light housekeeping rooms and similar places where 
only breakfast and luncheon are prepared. Owing to lack of space 
and the growing custom of "dining out" in the evening, the kitchen- 
ette is becoming one of the popular kitchens of the day. It ade- 
quately serves the purpose of the home and eliminates one full- 
lized room — the kitchen. And it has been made possible and 
practicable by the ELECTRIC kitchenette range! 




Probably the most popular type of 
kitchenette range in use today. Owing 
to the fact that its oven and surface 
units are so compact and occupy such 
a small space, this range can be in- 
stalled in almost any recess or com- 
partment in the kitchenette. Yet it 
is large enough to cook a full meal 
for several people. The connected load 
is about 3 kilowatts. Seven or eight 
of these ranges in a remodeled house 
which was formerly served by ONE 
kitchen is indeed good business for 
the central station. 



CHAPTER III 

ELECTRIC COOKERY 

History and Development 

Introduction. The first practical attempt at electric cookery 
was made in England in 1890. And the first effort to introduce 
electric cookery to the public was at the Crystal Palace Elec- 
trical Exhibition in London in 1891. In 1895 in the Cannon 
Street Hotel, London, the first electrically-cooked banquet was 
given in honor of the Lord Mayor and was a success both in the 
cookery and in creating general interest. 

The first activities in the United States took place about 1900 
when a fireless cooker manufacturer in Toledo put an electric 
heating unit in his device. No progress worthy of mention oc- 
curred until 1905 when three electrical manufacturers began to 
experiment with a frail and undependable hot-plate. It was not 
until 1909 that a range which '*stood up" and cooked for any 
length of time was put on the market. 

Development. During the period since 1909, the electric range 
manufacturers have developed the most perfect cooking device 
in the world and a large number of central stations have solved 
the numerous technical and commercial problems in connection 
with its merchandising, installation and service. 

Today more than 6,000 of the 17,333 electrically-served com- 
munities in this country have an electric cooking rate of 5 cents 
or lower. Of these rates, 70% are 4 cents or lower and more 

48 



HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT 49 

than 30% of the total are 3 cents or lower. Some of the most 
progressive central stations are actively merchandising ranges 
twelve months in the year with range specialists and modern 
sales organizations. 

Interest in electric cookery has developed more rapidly than in 
any other cooking method and last year electric cookery received 
the approval of prominent cooking authorities and dietitians of 
the United States. It is also being adopted by the leading pub- 
lic and private high and normal schools, cooking and domestic 
science schools, colleges and universities. Electric cookery ar- 
ticles are being published regularly in the household sections of 
the national women's magazines. 

Not only has the use of the electric range made great strides 
in the United States and Canada but there are a large number 
of them in use today in England, France, China and Central and 
South America. Hot plates and portable ovens have also been 
sold to virtually every country in the world. But America has 
been the most progressive because it has established favorable 
rates and merchandised ranges on a practical business-like basis. 

Large Station Sales. The first electric ranges were installed 
by small central stations which did not carry appreciable power 
loads, but in the past three years a number of the biggest sta- 
tions in the country have actively promoted the range and today 
carry very profitable cooking loads. 

The Southern California Edison Company with its principal 
office in Los Angeles has 2,920 ranges on its lines today; the 
Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Boston has 2,000; 
the Idaho Power Company, Boise, Idaho over 3,800; the 
Texas Power & Light Company of Dallas has 2,014; the 
Montana Power Company of Butte has 2,015; Union Electric 



50 ELECTRIC COOKERY 

Light & Power Company, St. Louis has 1,700; the Utah Power 
8b Light Company, Salt Lake City 3,236 and the Washington 
Water Power Company, Spokane, Washington, 3,147. For more 
complete report see insert folder in back of book. 

Superiority. Briefly, the superiority of electric cookery lies in 
the ideal quality of electric heat, which is even, dependable, 
easily regulated and not subject to fluctuation through pressure, 
atmospheric conditions nor drafts nor can it be extinguished by 
liquids boiling over. The ovens are thickly insulated on the fire- 
less cooker or refrigerator principle. Their heat is not only con- 
served but they are free from gaseous fumes and air currents 
which not only jeopardize the purity of the food but dry it out to 
the detriment of its nutritive value, weight and delicacy. There- 
fore the range produces larger roasts — roasts which are richer, 
juicier and that retain virtually all of their natural flavors and 
nutriment. Bread baked in the electric oven retains its moisture 
and is more evenly baked and browned. Cakes are more evenly 
raised and more delicate in flavor. For complete description of 
Electric Cooking see Better Cooked Food, page 135. 



SAY ''ELECTRIC Cookery'— not "cook- 
ing." Cookery is the only noun form 
of the word **cook" in the latest dic- 
tionaries. Cooking is a present participle 
and the expression "Electric Cooking" is 
incorrect. 



Electric Heat 

Generation. Fuel heat is produced by a gaseous, vitiating soot- 
producing flame which is the result of a chemical process of 
combustion with oxygen. Electric heat is produced by electric 
current passing through a resistance wire which does not affect 
nor is affected by the atmosphere. 

Advantages. Electrical energy produces the most perfect heat. 
It is radically different from fuel heat in that it can be concen- 
trated at the point of utilization, in any quantity at any tem- 
perature, in any atmosphere and with a uniform intensity. 

It is produced without combustion, flame, soot or fumes; can 
be confined to any definite area; is under absolute control as to 
temperature, precisely measured as to quantity and utilized at 
a greater efficiency than fuel heat because of the scientific thermal- 
storage construction of electric heating apparatus. 

The utilization of electric heat eliminates the buying, storing 
and handling of fuel and disposing of waste material. Its saving 
in labor, time and space results in a saving in overhead and taxes. 
Its safety reduces the fire hazard. 

Heat Characteristics. Heat is imparted in three ways: Radia- 
tion, Conduction and Convection. Radiation is the passage of 
heat from one object to another not in direct contact through 
the agency of ether waves. The intensity varies inversely as the 
square of the distance. Example: A radiant-type electric heater. 
Conduction is the passing of heat between two bodies in direct 
contact. It passes more quickly than by radiation and without 
possible interruption. Example: The electric iron. Convection 
is the transfer of heat from one object to another through the 
agency of air, or, in a fluid mass, through circulation of the move- 

51 



52 ELECTRIC COOKERY 



ment of elements in the mass. Example: An immersion heater 
or a steam radiator against which the water or air moves, ab- 
sorbs and distributes the heat. 

Methods of Measuring. Quantity is measured by the British 
Thermal Unit which represents the quantity of heat energy re- 
quired to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree 
Fahrenheit. Intensity is indicated by the temperature which is 
recorded by a thermometer and pyrometer in degrees. Water 
has been universally adopted as the medium on which these 
standards of measurement are based. 

Comparison with Other Methods. In the majority of cities, 
the dollar and cents cost of a given number of electric heat units 
is higher than those produced by the combustion of fuels. But 
electric heat is utilized at three to five times the efficiency of 
fuel. This and its many other advantages compensates for the 
increased cost and makes it the least expensive when all factors 
are considered. 

Without doubt, electric energy will be the ultimate heating 
medium for many operations because of its greater efficiency, 
safety, cleanliness and varied possibilities in its application, gen- 
eration, conservation and utilization. These are merely a few 
fundamental facts about the characteristics of heat which may 
be interesting to the electric range salesman. 

Fireless Cooker Principle 

Evolution. The electric cooker is an improvement of the fire- 
less cooker which is in turn a development of the old '*bean-hole" 
in the ground. Centuries ago this method of applying heat to 
food was in vogue. Men deposited hot stones in holes in the 



FIRELESS COOKER PRINCIPLE 53 

ground around which they placed meat and fish and then covered 
the pit with leaves and dirt. After several hours the food was 
cooked. 

Purpose. Not until recently has the principle of this heat stor- 
age method been appreciated and its scientific possibilities real- 
ized. With the introduction of the fuel stoves, combustion was 
constantly maintained throughout the cooking operation. The 
economy of using stored heat was neglected. But today the 
electric cooker is coming into use with this principle scientifically 
developed. 

Foods Cooked. Food cooked in this way is more delicious and 
nourishing than by other methods because the full nutritive 
values and natural flavors have been retained. See Better Cooked 
Food, page 135. The fireless cooker principle is particularly 
adapted to the stewing and boiling of meats, boiling and steam- 
ing of vegetables, steaming of puddings, baking of beans, es- 
callop vegetables and for the stewing and preserving of fruit. 

The Electric Cooker. Electric cookers are manufactured for 
attachment to lamp sockets and their connected load is less 
than the 660 watt limitation of a branch circuit. Their consump- 
tion may be compared favorably with that of the electric iron — 
only they are used many more times a week. In fact when a 
housewife becomes accustomed to this appliance she will prob- 
ably do a large part of her daily cooking in it. 



CHAPTER IV 

RANGE LOAD 
Investment and Return 

Average Conditions. The average central station operates the 
major part of the 24 hours at only a fraction of its capacity. In 
fact half the generating capacity would probably suffice for 90% 
of the time where the industrial power load is small. Off-peak 
business must therefore be developed to get a more continuous 
return on the large idle investment. The electric range and water 
heater are the best mediums to build up the valleys with the 
least added investment. 

At first thought it might seem that the capital investment to 
take on this load would be large but this can be shown not to be 
the case. By referring to the insert in back of book it will be seen 
that with a 53^ kilowatt average connected load of a range the 
average demand is 2.4 kilowatts or less than one-half, as all 
heating units of a range are not on at one time. Therefore 1,000 
ranges with a connected load of 5,500 kilowatts would have 
a 2,400 kilowatt demand if used simultaneously. In actual 
practice, however, the demand is only 550 kilowatts, making 
the over-all diversity factor ten to one. (See page 55.) 

Pro-rating Investment. The yearly income per range is $52.50 
at the average rate of 33^ cents — or a total of $52,500 for these 
1,000 ranges. If the installation cost to the central station is 
figured at $75.00 per range (far above the average), this would 

54 



INVESTMENT AND RETURN 55 

total $75,000 against which the income of $52,500 would be a 
very large percentage. Many domestic lighting customers pay 
only from $6 to $12 a year and without added cost for meter 
reading, billing, etc., an additional return of over $50 is secured. 
Pro-rating the installation cost over a period of five years makes 
the return a highly profitable one. 

Characteristics of the Load 

Character , The range load varies with the size of the town, 
the section of the country, customs of the people and the season 
of the year. In a small town the principal meal of the day is 
usually at noon. In the city it is more often cooked between 
five and seven o'clock in the evening. In the city the evening 
peak is later than in the small town, owing to the later dinner 
hour which is necessary as people are obliged to travel longer 
distances between place of employment and the home. 

The morning cooking load comes before the commercial load. 
At noon-time a considerable part of it comes between twelve 
and one o'clock when a large portion of the commercial load is 
off. In the evening the cooking load generally extends from 4:30 
p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Some of it may overlap the lighting load. 
However it has been stated by central station range authorities 
that the overlap is less than 10% in the Winter and very little 
in the Summer. 

The range is operated 365 days in the year, whereas industrial 
power is used on an average of only 300 days in the year. The 
range load is also the only appreciable load which is in operation 
during the daytime on Sundays and holidays. 

Demand and Diversity Factor. Assume that the connected 
load of a range is 5 kilowatts. The demand is seldom more than 



'^■M (NOON) Pfi A,"^ („„„,) pn 

6 7 8 9 10 n 12 I 2 3 -t 5 6 7 8 6 7 8 9 10 II 12 I 2 3 4 5 6 7 a 




J) 

t 


10 
5 








Ixi 


20 




15 




10 




5 









20 



t 



TUESDAY 



m 



WEDNESDAY 




THURSDAY 



m 



^ 



FRIDAY 



m 



^ 



SATURDAY 



SUNDAY 



\Mn 



i^ 





































































































































Cor 


tipo 


site 


fo 


-w 


ek 






























































/ 






























/ 










A 








/ 


\ 










/ 








/ 








/ 




^ 








^, 




_j 


\ 





67S9 10HI2 I 23^5678 

Daily load curves for one week for ranges and lights in the Blackstone 
Apartments, Milwaukee. The composite curve for the week gives an 
excellent idea of the average range load. The Milwaukee Electric 
Railway & Light Co. state that while the individual maximum 
demand of single range may average between 40 and 60 percent, of 
the connected load, the maximum demand for a group of 25 ranges 
will not exceed 15 percent of the connected load. 



CHARACTERISTICS OF THE LOAD 57 

2.17 kilowatts or 43 percent. This is due to the fact that all the 
units are not operated at once and that little of the cooking is 
done on "High" which is used in figuring maximum demand. 
"High" is used only in heating up the units. As soon as the 
desired temperature is obtained, "Medium" (or one-half of 
"High") will maintain it. Ofttimes "Low" (or one-fourth of 
"High") is used for the longer periods of cooking. 

When a utility has 1,000 ranges on its lines, one might assume 
that a station capacity of 2,400 kilowatts would be required to 
handle the load. But this is not the case as experience has 
shown that the diversity factor is 10 to 1 when this number of 
ranges are installed. Therefore instead of 2,400 kilowatts, just 
one-tenth of 1,000x5 or 500 kilowatts will carry the load. 

Two Examples of Range Loads, The Northern Idaho & 
Montana Power Company in Kalispell, Montana, experienced 
a remarkable cooking load growth. During a week in July, 
the electric energy output amounted to 68,000 kilowatt-hours 
exceeding all former records with the exception of Christmas 
week of the previous year, when the output amounted to 
69,000 kilowatt-hours. 

This large output is attributed to the number of electric 
ranges placed on the lines during the Spring. It is unusual for a 
central station to enjoy an output in the Summer months ap- 
proaching that of the Winter because of the much greater use of 
electricity for lighting during the dark months. 

The Bismarck, North Dakota, station had a capacity of only 
900 kilowatts in 1917, yet 150 ranges with a total connected 
load of 500 kilowatts were installed on its lines. No trouble how- 
ever was experienced during the peak period. This case is 
interesting as a large proportion of the lighting customers have 
electric ranges in their homes. 



CHAPTER V 

INSTALLATION 

General 

Factors in Installation. Correct installation is a vitally im- 
portant factor in electric range service. This importance cannot 
be over-estimated for it is the very foundation of the satisfaction 
of the purchaser. A finished installation includes five factors: 

1. The wiring used must be of ample size or there will be a drop 

in voltage and the units will not give their full heat. 

2. The voltage must meet specifications on the nameplate or there 

will be similar trouble. 

3. The grounding of the frame must be thorough to afford pro- 

tection to the operator. 

4. The workjnanship should be of the highest class to avoid dis- 

satisfaction and trouble. 

5. The location of the range in the kitchen — a location which 

will require the least number of steps and have the best 
day and artificial light. 

As the central station is compelled to spend a considerable 
amount of money in the sale and installation of a range — for 
advertising, general sales expense, handling equipment, rear- 
ranging of inside wiring, and in some instances the reconstruction 
of service and distribution lines — it should take no chances of 
having a troublesome installation. 

5^ 



GENERAL 59 



Central Stations' Responsibility. If possible and practicable, 
a central station should wire and install all ranges during the 
first few weeks of its first campaign. This will insure against 
mistakes which might be made by inexperienced wiremen. But 
after a number of ranges have been installed and the central 
station has established a wiring standard, both as to methods 
and cost, it is not bad policy to encourage the contractor- 
dealers to handle this business, provided of course that they will 
follow specifications, be reasonable in their price, and willing to 
have the central station retain the necessary privilege of super- 
vision and final inspection and approval before payment is made. 
It is the duty of the central station to see that every range in- 
stallation handled by a contractor-dealer is in accordance with 
the central station specifications and all ordinances and fire 
insurance requirements. See Insurance Requirements, page 206. 

Standard Units, Units of standard makes of ranges are de- 
signed for 110 volts. Current at 110 volts permits the use of a 
heavy wire which gives the unit a very rugged and durable con- 
struction. That is why it has been standardized. The majority 
of manufacturers will furnish units for 220 volts if requested in 
order. These units however are made with smaller-sized resis- 
tance wire and their use is not encouraged as they do not stand 
up as well after they have been in service a short time. 



DO NOT maintain a "Trouble" or "Re- 
pair" Department. Both words create 
a bad impression and imply there is 
so much trouble and repairing necessary 
that a whole department is required to 
handle it. "Service Department" is much 
better. 



Wiring Specifications 

The following specifications, based largely on the 
N. E. L. A. Range Committee Report, are con- 
sidered desirable: 

Specifications for Wiring Electric 
Cooking and Heating Devices, 

I. General. These specifications are not intended to give de- 
tailed instructions covering the methods to be used in wiring 
electric heating devices and ranges, but to furnish an outline of 
certain general arrangements and requirements which should be 
followed in every installation. Each job presents a different 
problem to the wireman, the details of which must be solved 
by the man on the ground, and the completed job made to con- 
form with the general requirements given herewith and the 
Regulations of the National Board of Fire Underwriters. 

//. Service Connections. 

(a) Pole to House 

Service connections will be made 3-wire, 110/220 volt, from 
pole line to house outlet, for all installations of 1000 watts or 
over connected load. No. 6 copper wire will be the minimum 
size used for this class of service. 

(b) Building Outlet to Meter 
(1) One-Family House 

The wires from building outlet to main line switch should be 
installed in metal conduit. Three wires. No. 8 or larger, and 
1-in. metal conduit shall be used for all installations having a 
connected load of 1000 watts or over. 

In wiring new houses, when the connected load is unknown, 
the wireman shall use his judgment as to whether the ultimate 

60 



WIRING SPECIFICATIONS 



61 



RANGE WIRING DIAGRAM 



..Approved 
Mcjster Sw/fcA 




Simple range wiring diagram drawn in accordance with the regulations 
of the National Board of Fire Underwriters. 



62 INSTALLATION 



load will require greater carrying capacity than that of No. 8 
wire and provide for the maximum in the original installation. 

(2) Flats and Apartment Houses 

The Fire Underwriters' Regulations require that mains feed- 
ing more than one range be large enough to supply the total load 
of all the ranges at the same time, disregarding any diversity of 
load.* 

Where it is probable that the other tenants in the house will 
install electric ranges or heating devices, it will prove much 
cheaper to provide capacity for the total ultimate load when 
making the first installation. 

///. Main Line Switches j Meter Loops 

(a) Location 

(1) Range on First Floor of Residence or Flat 

A new service connection should be installed, locating the 
meter and main line switch in the customary place and connect- 
ing existing lighting circuits to the new service. The range 
circuit should then be extended from meter to range by the 
most direct route. 

(2) Range on the Second Floor of Apartment or Residence 
The existing location of meters should be used wherever pos- 
sible, installing the new circuit to the building outlet. Where 
necessary, the old meter loop should be taken out, and connec- 
tions to the existing lighting circuits brought to the new meter 
location. The main line switch shall have sufficient capacity 
to care for the total load. 

As apartment house meters are usually placed in the basement, 
it will be necessary to run a 3 -wire connection from building out- 

NOTE* The requirement is distinctly unreasonable, and local permission may be secured to 
modify it. 



WIRING SPECIFICATIONS 63 

let to meter board, and a range circuit from this point to the 
range. 

(b) Materials, Sizes 

Unless the existing main line switch is a TPST fused knife 
switch of an approved type and of sufficient capacity to carry 
the additional load, a new TPST fused knife switch of 60 am- 
peres or greater capacity shall be installed in an approved metal 
cabinet or switch box. The outside legs of this switch should be 
fused with rated ampere capacity of fuses equal to 150 percent 
of the connected load. The neutral wire shall be grounded on 
the load side of the switch but must not be fused. 

Whenever possible the cut-outs for the lighting circuits shall 
be enclosed in the same box with the main line switch. The 
accompanying sketch (page 61 ) illustrates the method of installing 
switches, meters, etc., recommended for standard practice. 

IV. Range Circuits 

Materials, Sizes 
All range circuits shall be 3 -wire No. 8 rubber-covered stranded 
wire or larger conductor depending upon the size of the installa- 
tion and the distance from meter to load. The table given on page 
64 shall be used to determine the size of conductor which shall be 
used in these circuits. Where conduit is used, the range circuit 
shall be carried in approved metal conduit of not less than 1 
inch inside diameter, which shall be installed in accordance with 
the Underwriters' Regulations. 



pLECTRIC RANGES can be and should be installed 
^ to the utmost satisfaction of both the purchaser 
and the Central Station on the very first day. There- 
fore a troublesome range installation is an inexcus- 
able mistake. And it can kill more range sales than 
ten satisfactory installations can create prospects. 



64 INSTALLATION 



Wiring Table 

2 Per Cent Drop 



Load No. 8 No. 6 No. 4 No. 2 No. 1 

Watts 35 amp. 50 amp. 70 amp. 90 amp. 107 amp. 

Distance in feet for 110/220 volt, 3-wire circuits. 



1000 


375 










1500 


250 










2000 


185 


295 








2500 


145 


235 








3000 


125 


198 


316 






3500 


105 


170 


270 






4000 


93 


148 


236 






4500 


83 


132 


213 






5000 


76 


118 


188 


300 




5500 


68 


108 


172 


273 




6000 


62 


99 


158 


250 


312 


6500 


58 


92 


145 


231 


289 


7000 


54 


85 


135 


215 


268 


7500 


50 


79 


126 


200 


250 


8000 




74 


118 


187 


234 


9000 




66 


105 


166 


208 


10000 




59 


95 


150 


187 


12000 






79 


125 


156 


15000 








100 


125 


20000 










94 



Three No. 8 or larger conductors shall be used in all new 
houses where the size of range to be installed is unknown, but 
will not exceed 7000 watts. When the length of circuit is great, 
ample size of conductor should be provided to avoid excessive 
voltage drop. Three No. 8 wires should be the minimum used, 
even though larger than at first required, as this will permit 
installing a larger range without changing the wiring. This 
increased cost would amount to only approximately 5 percent 
of the combined cost of ranges and wiring in most" cases. 



WIRING SPECIFICATIONS 65 

V, Master Switch 

A master switch which clearly indicates whether it is open or 
closed, and a pilot light, where local requirements demand it, 
should be installed at a point within easy access of the range. 
This switch should be of the three-pole, fused type, safety 
switch. It is essential to have a thoroughly safe installation, so 
use a safety switch which is so constructed that there is no 
possibility of coming in contact with live parts in opening and 
closing or re-fusing the switch. 

Where such a safe-guarded switch is not used, a TPST 
knife switch shall be installed in a steel cut-out box, so that the 
fuses are on the load side of the switch. This box should be in- 
stalled at a minimum height of five feet above the floor. A 
caution label, warning against re-fusing the switch while in the 
closed position should be posted on the inside cover of the box. 
The neutral wire should be grounded but not fused., 

VI, Double Throw Switches for Water Heaters 

Where water heaters and ranges are supplied from the same 
circuit and their operation controlled by a double throw or snap 
switch, this switch shall be of an approved safety type. 

VII, Grounding Frame 

The neutral wire of 3 -wire circuits shall be grounded at the 
main switch and at the range. All conduits shall be grounded 
by means of No. 6 stranded copper wire fastened in an approved 
manner by approved ground clamps. The frame of the range 
must be thoroughly grounded. Joints or taps in the ground wire 
shall all be soldered and where the wire runs in an exposed 
position, it must be protected from mechanical injury by means 
of moulding. 



66 INSTALLATION 



Ground connections should be made to the street side of the 
water meter wherever possible. Connections to pipes must be 
made with approved clamps and the pipe must be thoroughly- 
cleaned of paint or dirt, so that a good connection is obtained. 

It has been assumed that the range manufacturer has balanced 
the heating units connected to each leg of a 3 -wire range. If 
this is not the case, the units must be reconnected, or the size 
of wire, switches and fuses increased to amply provide for the 
maximum current on the more heavily loaded side. 

Recommendations 

Voltage, The concensus of opinion on the question of voltage 
seems to be that a balanced 110/220-volt, 3-wire service is the 
most desirable, even though balancing on a 110/220-volt system 
is difficult with only a few ranges. 

The following data will aid in calculating the secondary dis- 
tribution requirements for a typical range installation. In this 
calculation, it is assumed that the range and water heater in- 
stallation will not exceed a maximum of 43^ kilowatts and will 
operate at 110 volts, thus requiring 40.9 amperes (none induc- 
tive). Accordingly, the voltage drop will be R x 1 x feet, divided 
by 1000. 

With No. 4 wire, the voltage drop on the 4j^ kw. installation, 
1000 feet distant, will equal 20.3 or 0.0203 volt drop per range 
foot. With No. 2 wire, the voltage drop on a 43^ kw. installa- 
tion, 1000 feet distant, would equal 12.76 volts or 0.01276 volt 
drop per range foot. 

Allowing 10 volts drop (on 220-volt) at center of load on a 
110/220-volt balanced 3-wire secondary (each range to be bal- 
anced with every other range installation on this service), each 



16 



15 



14 



12 



Tests on Effect of Variation of Voltage 
in Heating Electric Range Oven. 

A-Minutes Required to Heat Oven to 225°C 
B'Watt Hours Consumed. 



Minutes Required to 



Heat Oven to 225X1 



10 



Volts 



\ 




Watt Hours Consumed 



300 
290 
280 
270 
260 
250 
240 
230 
220 
210 
200 
190 



100 



104 



108 112 116 

^The Society for Electrical Development. In 
This chart shows the importance of maintaining voltage. 

"* 67 



68 INSTALLATION 



feeder from a transformer must have not in excess of 1000 range 
feet on No. 4 wire at 2 20- volts and not more than 1600 range 
feet on No. 2 wire at 220-volts. 

On the straight 110-volt service, allowing 5 volts drop, the 
allowable range feet for No. 4 wire would be 315, and the allow- 
able range feet for No. 2 wire would be 400. As an example of 
working out range distribution by means of the above data, the 
following will hold for a typical installation on 110-volt service 
from a balanced 11 0/2 20- volt 3 -wire system: 

Allowing six houses to the block (three on each side of the 
street) and the secondary wiring extending only two blocks in 
any direction from the transformer, and assuming 50 percent 
of these houses to have ranges installed, there would be 12x50 
percent x 1 block distant equal 6 ranges x 300 feet, which is 
equal to 1800 range feet. This exceeds 1600 range feet which is 
the allowance for this class of distribution on No. 2 wire. There- 
fore, the number of ranges must be cut down on this secondary 
feeder to five installations, which would then give 1500 range 
feet, which is within the limit for No. 2 wire as specified. 

The voltage of a range circuit should receive more attention 
than the voltage of the lighting circuit. A drop in voltage of a 
lamp can be compensated by using a lamp of higher wattage or 
lower voltage. But this makeshift cannot be carried out with an 
electric range. If the voltage drops, the cooking operation slows 
down. When this occurs, the range operation is unsatisfactory. 

The voltage should be tested when a range is installed, when 
additional ranges are connected to the same transformer and 
when the customer makes a complaint about the service. These 
tests should be made at the terminals of the range with all units 
switched "Full" and when the other ranges on the same trans- 
former are in use. Current should be delivered to the range at 



RECOMMENDATIONS 69 



the voltage specified on the nameplate of the range or units. 
But a variation of two or three volts is permissible. 

Transformer Capacities. Transformer capacity need not 
equal range demand because a range has so many units that its 
diversity factor is uncommonly high. 

The following table may. be used in determining the number 
of ranges which can safely be connected to a transformer, as- 
suming each range has a maximum demand of 5,000 watts: 

Number of Size of 

ranges Transformer 

1 5 KVA 

2 5 " 

3 73^ " 

4 1V2 " 

5 1V2 " 

6 7M " 

7 73^ " 
8 to 11 , 10 

12 to 20 15 

Meter Sizes, In considering the proper-sized meter for both 
lighting and cooking current, the following excerpt which is 
quoted from a report issued by the Engineering Department of a 
prominent manufacturer, is informative: 

"Our meter will start at approximately 3^ percent of full load 
and will record fairly accurately at 1 percent of full load. It is 
more reliable, however, on 2 percent of full load and we would 
recommend that if possible, you arrange to have the lowest load not 
less than 2 percent of the rating of the meter. The overload capa- 
city and overload accuracy of these meters will greatly facilitate 
this matter. The normal load may be anywhere from 50 to 150 
percent of the rating, and the maximum load (such loads as are 
seldom used) may be as high as 200 percent of the rating without 
endangering the meter. Of course the meter is a little slow on 200 
percent load. 



70 INSTALLATION 



"The losses in the potential circuit of these meters are between 
1.0 and 1.1. The loss in the 15-ampere current coil is 0.87 watts at 
full load, that of the 25-ampere is 1.07 watts, and the 50-ampere 
has a loss of 2.7 watts. 

"The overload capacities of these meters are quite liberal. As 
stated before, 200 percent load almost continuously will not damage 
any of these. They will certainly stand 50 percent overload con- 
tinuously or even more. The 5 and 10-ampere meters have even 
more overload capacity than the 15-ampere meters and above. 
These meters will practically stand 400 percent load almost con- 
tinuously while the 15-ampere meter will be damaged somewhere 
around 300 percent load." 

The following tabulation shows the results that will be secured 
from different-sized new meters with small loads: 

Watt Load Percent Load on a 10-amp Percent 

3-wire Meter Registration 

15 .68 96 

20 .91 100 





Percent Load on a IS-amp 






3-wire Meter 




15 


0.45 


68 


20 


0.60 

Percent Load on a 25-amp 
3-wire Meter 


90 


15 


0.27 


16 


20 


0.36 


46 



Testing the Range. Before a range leaves the central station 
storeroom, it should be completely assembled, thoroughly exam- 
ined for loose bolts and nuts, cleaned up and polished; all units 
tested for wattage and the oven "burned out," which consists 
of turning both units on "Full" for about twenty minutes, with 
doors wide open, and burning off the paraffine which the manu- 
facturer is obliged to put on the units and oven lining as a pro- 
tection against rusting in transit. 



CHAPTER VI 

MERCHANDISING METHODS 

First Important Steps 

General Basic Factors. Before entering range merchandising, 
the central station must recognize and accept several important 
fundamentals and accomplish certain work which underlies the 
successful development of the cooking load: 

1 . Realize all the factors in the work of revolutionizing the local 
cooking methods — the time, sound merchandising, persistent 
advertising and 100% central station service involved. 

2. Recognize in the range a heavy load builder different from any 
other domestic or commercial current consumer; one which 
will demand the gradual rearrangement of the lines based on 
future requirements for several years. 

3. Secure the enthusiastic co-operation of every department of 
the company. 

4. Sell an electric range to every "electrical" man in the town. 

Revolutionizing Cooking Methods. Changing cooking meth- 
ods which have been practiced for years is not an easy task. It 
cannot be done by a hurry-up campaign or with any prospect 
of saturating the locality with electric ranges in a very short 
time. 

The majority of homes have good fuel stoves. So the initial 
field for the electric range lies in new business^new residences, 
apartments, restaurants, clubs, Summer colonies and similar 

71 



72 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

places where the owners are in the market for cooking equip- 
ment. Of course a large percentage of electric ranges sold today 
have superseded fuel ranges which were in excellent condition. 
But during the first few months of sales effort, it is better to 
concentrate on the better developed prospects in the market. 

These sales will be the easiest to secure and will, with steady 
educational advertising, consistent sales effort and efficient cen- 
tral station service pave the way for more business. Gradually 
the existing fuel stoves will be discarded and replaced by electric 
ranges. In a few years the town will reach a high percentage 
of saturation and the central station will reap the harvest of the 
missionary work which is required in the beginning. 

Co-operation of Entire Company, After the executives and 
the Sales Department have analyzed the range load, studied the 
plant and distribution system, investigated the sales possibilities 
and decided to take the inevitable step, the first move is to hold 
a conference of the officers, superintendents and heads of de- 
partments — preferably preceded by a dinner which will put them 
in a receptive attitude. 

The purpose of the meeting is to '^sell" the idea to all present, 
the rearrangement of the system to the Engineering Department, 
the handling of the load and the effect on the operating cost to 
the Operating Department, the billing and the time-payment 
accounts to the Accounting Department and so on through the 
different divisions of the company. Each department is then 
instructed to prepare reports on anticipated conditions and 
costs for the benefit of the manager. And finally the Sales 
Department must have the estimated appropriation approved 
by the executives. 

The Engineering and Operating Departments should prepare 



FIRST IMPORTANT STEPS 73 

data on alterations, operating costs and estimate such items as 
the time required to get new equipment. The Accounting De- 
partment should submit costs on the additional bookkeeping; 
and a statement of the amount the company can afford to invest 
in new equipment, merchandising and advertising. And the 
Service Department should estimate installation and mainte- 
nance costs. 

Selling Every "Electrical" Man, The first step in selling is to 
get a range in the home of every "electrical" man in the town — 
from the president of the central station to the smallest elec- 
trical dealer. Electric ranges are sold to the public on what users 
and ''electrical friends" say about them. 

Every man in the electrical business is supposed to know 
about the facts and figures of the industry. So he is always 
asked "confidentially" by his friends whether the electric range 
is as practicable and inexpensive as the salesman states. Some- 
times he knows; often he does not. But he will if he owns one. 

Price and Selling Policies 

Price Maintenance. The greatest mistake in range mer- 
chandising today is selling below manufacturers' list prices. It 
is a false policy because it deliberately takes the legitimate profit 
from one department to add a smaller one to another and bases 
the sales angle on the price appeal which never sold a range. 
Moreover it is unnecessary because electric ranges have no 
standardized price. 

The Sales Department is a separate and distinct organization 
from the Operating Department. Its functions, budgets and 
equipment have nothing whatsoever to do with the other. So 
sales expenses should not be borne by the Operating Depart- 



74 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

ment. This department should show a profit and there is no 
reason why the Sales Department should not be self-supporting. 

Suppose a range plus the standardized price for installation 
costs the central station $200. The selling price to the customer — 
whether the first or the last one in the town — should be, say, 
$220. " But many central stations sell the range for less than 
cost — *'as an introductory offer." The resulting impression on 
the purchaser is that the range is not worth its full price. The 
effect on the central station is a loss of a large amount which 
would help sell a considerable number of additional ranges and 
protect and encourage the contractor-dealer and the other sales 
channels. See Contr actor -dealer^ s Position, page 124. Range sales 
will be just as numerous whether made at a profit or a loss. 
This has been demonstrated by the experience of many central 
stations. 

The difference between $150 and $200 is just a state of 
mind — and nine times out of ten it is the central station which 
thinks the price is too high. It is just as easy to get $200 as $150 
when selling a device which has no standardized price. Pur- 
chasers do not know whether the range installed is worth $150 
or $250. All they know about it is what the salesman tells 
them. If he tells them the real facts in diplomatic sales language, 
they will want the range. And when they want a range they will 
buy it — buy it because they want it and not because $50 has 
been taken off of the legitimate price! 

Merchandising Problems, Maintain one price to everyone. 
Showing favoritism breeds bad feeling. Don't sell more ranges 
than can be quickly installed and given prompt service of every 
kind. Maintain just one installation arrangement. Some central 
stations give the purchaser a choice of two plans. The service 



PRICE AND SELLING POLICIES 75 



department will do it or the local contractor will do it. It is a 
bad policy because it puts it up to the customer who does not 
know which is better. 

The cost of the wiring can advantageously be included in the 
price of the range. This will save the salesman the difficult 
task of selling the wiring — and making two sales instead of one. 
Another difficult problem is overcoming the impression that the 
cost of operation is high. It is solved by establishing a flat charge 
for the first thirty days and in having a capable demonstrator 
teach the housewife the economical use of the range. 

Other policies which must be decided upon are: Time pay- 
ments, trial installations, introductory offers. Problems that 
will arise are: Higher operating cost, water and kitchen heating 
and the slower-than-gas-operation. These last four points are 
discussed under Overcoming Obstacles, page 145. Each will be 
dependent upon and governed by local conditions. 

Time Payments. A time-payment policy is necessary when 
selling to the poorer classes and it is often an alluring inducement 
to the middle classes as "the small monthly payment added to 
the light bill is never noticed." 

A state of mind exists today in which people think they cannot 
afford to pay out more than $5, $10 or $20 at one time. But they 
will keep on paying a small amount indefinitely — if they don't 
have to give up very much in one payment. This bit of psychol- 



'"T^HE PUBLIC no more expects a bonus or a cut 
* price on the electric range than it would expect 
trading -stamps on a Packard." Central Stations 
have found that the best sales policy is to sell ranges 
at the manufacturer's list price plus a profitable 
standard installation charge. 



76 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

ogy has sold thousands of homes, automobiles, pianos, victrolas 
and other expensive articles. 

It is much easier to sell $200 ranges on monthly payments of 
$10 than $150 ranges on payments of $20. So a time payment 
policy must be established to increase range sales. With such a 
policy, 5 percent will be added to the selling price for interest, 
bookkeeping and other expenses. The majority of companies 
ask for 10 to 20 percent as the initial payment and the balance 
paid in six to twelve installments. 

Trial Installations. A range sale like every other sale is based 
on confidence. As the range is a new device, women are naturally 
skeptical as to its practicability and operating cost. Therefore 
trial installations are often necessary to prove to the prospect 
that the range is all that it is claimed to be. This policy shows 
also that the central station has enough confidence in the range to 
permit the prospect to try it and buy after actual experience. 

Trial installations however should not be advertised nor urged 
upon anyone who happens to show interest in the range. They 
should only be suggested to responsible prospects who have been 
50% sold. Promiscuous installations for women who "will try 
anything once" just for the novelty is an expensive proposition 
for the central station. 

In other words, trial installations must be made — but the 
prospects should be selected with care to avoid curiosity seekers. 
Make every sale or trial a personal matter. Avoid irresponsible 
requests for such an installation by some plausible excuse, such 
as depleted stock- This will usually discourage the whimsical 
woman. When a trial has been granted, no restriction nor red 
tape should be attached to the contract. The length of a trial 
is usually 30 days. A trial payment of at least $10 should be 
exacted, which, if the range is accepted, is applied on the price. 



PRICE AND SELLING POLICIES 77 

This trial payment should include (cover) the first month's 
current bill, therefore no meter connection is necessary. If pre- 
sented in the proper way this has the appearance of offering the 
first month's current free. This is certainly attractive to the 
new owner of the range and she will undoubtedly feel a certain 
amount of freedom in conducting her experiments and getting 
used to the range without paying for any extra current that may 
be consumed by so doing. This can be used as a very attractive 
offer and to good advantage in closing the deal. 

If the customer orders the range removed at the end of 30 
days, the demonstrator should try to restore her confidence or 
correct any wrong impressions. But if the customer is firm in 
the request, the range should be removed quickly without hag- 
gling. In trial installations made to date, probably 90% have 
been retained which proves that the range fulfills all claims. 
Introductory Offers. Introductory offers are necessary at 
times, but they should not be in the form of cut prices, for 
the reasons explained under Price Maintenance^ page 73. Women 
cannot resist buying when they get something **free" so it is oft- 
times a profitable plan to add $10 to the selling price and make 
some "special" allowance on old stoves, or include a "free" water 
heater or a "free" set of combination utensils, or a set of dishes, 
a grill, toaster, percolator or other appliance. But do not cut 
the price. A bargain price is never half as tempting as something 
given "free" with the purchase. 

Miscellaneous Policies, Range salesmen should not be obliged 
to divide their time and effort on the sale of other appliances. The 
sun's rays do not burn until brought to a focus — and neither is 
a range salesman's work effective until he is able to concentrate 
on ranges. If two men are selling ranges and appliances, the 
better plan is to have each man specialize. 



78 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

When an electric range supersedes a fuel stove, the best plan 
is to allow a small amount on the fuel range and remove it as 
quickly as possible. This act destroys the possibility of the 
woman going back to the old stove — to ''warm up" the kitchen, 
because the month's electric bill was too high or for any other 
reason. This is not only safeguarding against any whimsicality, 
but insures a 365 days' use of the electric range which is less 
likely if a fuel range is handy and can be used. The old fuel 
ranges can be sold in territories where electric service is not 
available — or if they are worn out they can be sold for old iron. 

Setting a bogy sometimes gives the sales organization a pace to 
follow — a factor which will do more to insure the success of the 
range merchandising than any other single element. It will act 
as a stimulant to the salesmen and a guide to the commercial 
manager. This bogy should be pro-rated by months — the first 
month demanding the lowest number of sales and the last month 
of the year the largest number— because of the accumulated 
effect of the missionary work and the sales which will be made 
from the first few installations. Adding a bonus for exceeding 
the figure will also be found useful. 

Sales Department Work 

Organization, The size of the sales department will depend 
on the size of the central station and the population served. 
Assuming the central station has an exclusive field in a town of 
30,000 population, its sales organization might well consist of 
the sales manager, a home and an exhibit demonstrator and 
three or four salesmen or saleswomen. If special campaigns are 
conducted in the Summer, a good plan is to engage college stu- 
dents as "prospect hunters." 

The sales department should sell 100% Satisfaction with 



SALES DEPARTMENT WORK 79 

each range. This should be the underlying principle of every 
sale. As other departments do not come in direct contact with 
the people, they are likely to forget the sentiment, psychology 
and other vital elements in the harmonious relationship between 
the customer and the central station. For this reason every 
other department should be subordinate to and under the direc- 
tion of the sales department when it is necessary. 
Sales Manager's Position. The sales manager is responsible 
for the sales, for his salespeople, for the advertising, demonstra- 
tions, follow-up work, installation, service, maintenance and the 
company's good-will. In a few words, his duties are to: 

Analyze sales possibilities 

Make a map of the distribution system 

Draw chart and classify sections of town 

Lay out complete sales plan for the year 

Estimate selling cost 

Establish a sales bogy 

Prepare price and selling policies for approval 

Choose the types of ranges to be sold 

Employ salesmen and demonstrators 

Put them through their educational course 

Complete details for advertising 

Make arrangements for demonstrations 

Sell a range to every "electrical" man 

Co-operate with the contractor-dealer 

Get department and hardware stores to display ranges 

Approve all salesmen's plans 

Report weekly progress to general manager 

His first move should be to analyze local financial, commercial 
and economic conditions, all of which will have an influence on 
his sales. If business is depressed, he will want a less elaborate 
merchandising plan than he would if prosperity was at its height. 
As a domestic trade barometer, he should study the sales charts 
of the largest local department store. 



80 



MERCHANDISING METHODS 



THE HEAT -CHASERS 



Mausi^© CaMmpaon^na Sftafeliacs 



Totil 
Ringe 
Sales 
Standing District SjUcsmao Allotment 

1 Denison H. H. Stanfield 20 

2 Tyler S. J. Fechenbach 55 

3 Eagle Pass —A. B. Hillan 95 

4 Terrell Harry Hind 96 

5 Commerce H. L.,Cadwallader 143 

6 McKinney Harry Hind 185 

7 Cleburne H L. Barnes 82 

8 HilUboro L. D. Wittkower 266 

9 Ennis Otis Wilbor 224 

10 Sherman H. H. Stanfield 24 

11 Bonham C. W-. McCUtcheon 150 

VI Waxahachie ..J. H Simpson 200 

13 Taylor Jeff Murphy 308 

14 Sweetwater ...H A. Spencer .246 

15 Temple C. M Depuy 

R W Snyder 356 

16 Palestine S. J Fechenbach 50 

17 Brownwood ..R. B Clarkson 115 

18 Paris H. V Applebaugh 50 

19 Gainesville ...H H. Stanfield 19 

20 Waco H. L. McLean 41 

21 Wichita Falls. .Manager 51 



To be 
Sold 
during Range 
1917 Contracts 
Campaign Secured 
17 



Sales 
Points 
Earned 



52 

75 

9o 
132 
170 

77 
249 
214 

21 
137 
189 
261 
219 



529.20 
442.75 
427.20 
385.39 
370.93 
370.56 
351.00 
344.86 
340.90 
333.20 
305.76 
258.72 
237.46 
228.50 




March 1st to Sept. 30, 

Days of campaign passed to July 5th 

Per cent of campaign period passed. 

1917 range allotment. - 

Ranges sold March 1st to July 5th 

Per cent of range allotment sold 

Ranges yet to be sold 

Campaiga days remaining -.. 

MUST GO at rate of 14 per day. or 98 per week. 



Page from the bi-weekly company magazine of the Texas 
Power & Light Co. showing how they energize the range 
salesman and maintain general company interest in 
range sales during the season by publishing the progress 
of each man on the sales force. This idea proved to be a 
real sales stimulator. 



SALES DEPARTMENT WORK 81 

Remember the range is not a seasonable proposition. Everyone 
thought so once. But they were mistaken. Today electric 
ranges are sold twelve months of the year where sound mer- 
chandising effort is maintained. 

Therefore initial sales work should be focused on prospects who 
are in the market or whose position and prosperity favor a sale. 
The readiest market consists of new apartment house owners, 
families moving into their own homes and owners of worn-out 
stoves. The prospects whose financial condition is good are de- 
termined in another way. For example: If it is harvest time, 
the agricultural people are more inclined to spend money than 
those interested in the manufacturing or selling of farm imple- 
ments, paints or similar products which are bought principally 
in the Spring. 

The sales manager should lay out a map of the distribution 
system so that he may always have before him a knowledge of 
his extensions, their boundaries and the location and size of his 
transformers. This map together with a sales chart will graphic- 
ally show him where and where not to direct his sales effort. 
See Prospects and Follow- Up Work, page 105. 

He prepares a complete sales plan for the year including both 
domestic and commercial effort as he should include restaurants, 
hotels and clubs as well as homes. 

In estimating the cost, the factors involved are: 

Salaries of the salesmen and demonstrators 

Cost of advertising, demonstrations, displays, etc. 

Percentage of his salary , 

Percentage of rent and other overhead 
After estimating the cost for the year, he should set a reason- 
able sales bogy, the number of range sales necessary to absorb 
this sales cost and show a profit when they are sold at manufac- 
turers' list prices. This method of distributing the entire sales 



82 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

cost over a period of time will reduce the merchandising cost per 
range during the first two or three months. The first range will 
always be the most expensive and the most difficult to sell but 
the cost and effort will be reduced with each sale. 

Price and selling policies must be determined. See Price and 
Selling Policies, page 73. Ranges must be ordered. Care 
should be taken in selecting the ranges. In fact greater care than 
in the selection of any other current-consuming device because 
an electric range can do more to increase or decrease the prestige 
of the central station than any other appliance. Buy on merit. 
Ask other sales managers which makes they have found reliable. 
Employ real salesmen. See Salesmen and Demonstrators, page 
87. Educate them. Plan demonstrations. 

Handling salesmen is another important duty. Advice is more 
effective than criticism. Always request rather than command. 
Remember the power of kindness. Keep up enthusiasm. See 
that the salesroom and show windows and all other factors in 
the merchandising are kept alive. Sales activities are inclined 
to slow down if there is not some power behind them which 
continually injects new interest, new enthusiasm and new punch. 

During the first few months it is well to approve all plans of 
the salesmen and demonstrators so that no indiscreet action 
will be taken. Mistakes will happen but many can be avoided 
by keeping in close touch with everyone in the sales organization. 

Establish a co-operative plan with the contractor-dealer, the 
hardware and department stores whereby they will exhibit 
ranges and receive a commission for selling or a certain amount 
for the names of prospects who become purchasers. Read Con- 
tractor-Dealer^ s Position, page 124. 

Before firing the opening gun of the campaign, a range should 
be sold to every possible employe, every electrical jobber and 



SALES DEPARTMENT WORK 83 

contractor-dealer; also every influential man whose name may 
be used in testimonial advertising. Sell ranges to the owners 
and managers of restaurants, hotels, clubs and similar places to 
pave the way for sales of larger equipment to these establish- 
ments. In other words, lay a foundation both in a domestic 
and commercial way before starting the actual campaign. 

When all final arrangements have been made issue a bulletin 
for the employes describing the entire sales plan, the range, 
the rate, introductory offers, discounts, commissions to them 
and any other information which they should know to be able 
to answer simple questions about the rate or the range. Also 
see that every employe receives a copy of each piece of advertis- 
ing as it is issued. 

Each week a general report of progress should be composed 
for the general manager. Other duties of the sales manager 
are included under other sub-headings in this chapter on Mer- 
chandising Methods. 

Salesmen's Work, Each salesman is given a certain section of 
the town or territory for which he is directly responsible. His 
work lies primarily in changing Class C Prospects into Class B 
Prospects and Class B Prospects into Class A Prospects— and 
then into Purchasers. See Prospects and Follow-up-Work, 
page 105. Concisely his duties consist of: 

Compiling a card index of his Class B and Class A Prospects. 

Sending them preliminary advertising which contains a coupon 
to be returned for some other folder, booklet or infor- 
mation. 

Getting his Class B Prospects into his Class A file 

Sending Class A people advance literature and a request that 
he should be allowed to make a personal call 

Selling ranges 

Following up installations 

Reporting weekly progress to sales manager. 



84 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

A salesman must employ his time efficiently. Never make a 
personal call until the Prospect has received range literature and 
knows a few things at least about electric cookery. Remember 
a personal call costs twenty times as much as a folder or booklet. 

Upon calling, the salesman must ascertain the way the woman 
can be sold: By recommendation of a neighbor, through 
demonstration at the electric shop, by a trial installation in her 
home or some other means. After a contract has been signed, 
the salesman should get a definite promise from the service de- 
partment as to the day and hour of the installation. Arrange- 
ments should then be made for the home demonstrator to be 
there when the service is turned on. 

Telephone the purchaser once or twice to learn if the range is 
giving satisfactory service, how it is liked and whether he can 
be of service. Make it clear that the central station will do 
everything possible. If possible, however, a personal call at the 
home is much more satisfactory. 

For methods of securing prospects, see Prospects and Follow- 
up Work, page 105. For sales methods see Selling Points, page 
128. For general knowledge read the entire book. The merchan- 
dising and service chapters are absolutely necessary; and the 
technical chapters are written in non-technical language and 
contain essential points about the station system and the work 
of the operating men which are helpful in sales work. 

Demonstrators* Duties, The work of the home demonstrator 
is described und^T Educating the New User, page 175. The work 
of the demonstrator who conducts the public cooking demon- 
strations is described under Displays and Demonstrations, page 
94. The qualifications of both are discussed under Salesmen and 
Demonstrators, page 87. 



SALES DEPARTMENT WORK 85 

Merchandising Throughout a Territory. Selling ranges in a 
number of small towns demands a somewhat different mer- 
chandising plan. The territory should be divided into sections 
which are put in charge of local managers who report to the 
sales manager in the executive office. 

After the campaign has been well started in the home city, a 
combination technical and commercial man should go ahead to 
the first town selected and prepare the field for the coming of 
the sales crew which should consist of a salesman and a demon- 
strator. This man educates the local manager and the wiremen, 
sees that the ranges arrive and puts on the advertising cam- 
paign which announces the coming demonstration. 

When the sales crew arrive and take charge of the situation 
this advance man goes on to the next community. The sales 
people continue the advertising, conduct the demonstrations, 
sell as many ranges as they can during the three or four weeks 
of their visit and lay out the future activities for the local man- 
ager who will continue the work with the aid of an assistant 
and a good cook, preferably one who is well known in the town. 

As the work of this salesman and demonstrator usually in- 
volves long time-consuming trips on visits to homes widely 
separated both before and after the purchase, many companies 
have found it profitable to furnish these people with light auto- 
mobiles which increase the efficiency of the crew from 40% to 
60%. 

Service Department Duties 

Organization, The organization of the Range Service Depart- 
ment should be composed of conscientious, courteous men who 
understand and always maintain that necessary "At-your- 
service" attitude toward the public. Before activities begin, 



86 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

the repair men and wiremen should be given three talks: 
First by the manufacturers' salesmen who will describe the con- 
struction and operation of the ranges; second, by the chief 
engineer who will give them the fundamentals of range installa- 
tion with the transformer, meter and wire sizes which he has 
adopted as standard; third; a talk by the sales manager on the 
importance of Service, featuring the point that the service de- 
partment is more important in the sale of a range than the sales 
department. These service men should be specialists and not 
handle other work. They should familiarize themselves with 
Chapter Five on Installation and Chapter Nine on Service and 
Maintenance. 

Specific Work. The service department should be prepared 
to install a range promptly after the sale is made. Half the joy 
of a purchase is in immediate delivery — particularly to a woman. 
As Service is what the central station is selling, this prompt 
installation is one phase of it which creates a good impression. 
If the delivery cannot be made within forty-eight hours, a defin- 
ite promise which can be fulfilled should be given as to the day 
and hour of the installation and the availability of the service. 

Before delivering a range to the home, it should be set up in 
the warehouse, all nuts and bolts tightened and each surface 
and oven unit tested. The oven should be ''burned out" to save 
the housewife this inconvenience, much current and from smok- 
ing up her kitchen. 

For two or three months, a frequent periodical examination 
of the range should be made to see that it is in perfect condi- 
tion. Ofttimes a terminal connection will become loosened and 
the unit therefore is unable to give its maximum heat. The 
annoyance will be so slight that the housewife does not think it 
important enough to call a repair man. It is the duty of the 



SERVICE DEPARTMENT DUTIES 87 

service department therefore to assume the responsibility of 
discovering such necessary repairs. 

The repair division of the service department should carry 
an adequate supply of range parts. See Range and Parts Stock, 
page 92. 

Salesmen and Demonstrators 
Their Importance, The success of a range campaign depends 
upon the men and women behind it. They represent the central 
station. They make or break sales through their diplomacy. 
They are the connecting link between the signature line and the 
prospect's fountain pen. So the sales manager should know how 
to pick his salespeople. 

Women can best conduct the demonstrations and instruct the 
new owners in electric cookery. Few women feel that men know 
anything about this art. And fewer still will permit a man to tell 
them how to cook. Both salesmen and demonstrators should 
completely read this book for it does not contain a fact which 
will not help them in their work. 

The Salesman. A successful range salesman must first k^ow 
salesmanship! Moreover he should be a higher-type of man than 
the salesman behind the counter. He must know the construc- 
tion, operation, service and product of the electric range and other 
cooking devices. He must know the cooking rate and how it is 
figured; how this low rate is justified; how to cook some of the 
simple popular foods and the advantages and prices of all other 
electrical appliances. Furthermore he ought to know something 
about housekeeping, home -making and domestic routine to be 
able to make a human appeal to women buyers. 

In selecting salesmen study their attitude of mind. Learn if 
they think clearly, cleanly; are healthy in body; can inspire 
confidence. Learn if they like to sell; learn the possibility of their 



REASONS GIVEN 



NUMBER OF ANSWERS 



INDIFFERENCE OF 
SALESPEOPLE 

AHEMPTSTO 
SUBSTITUTE 



ERRORS 



TRICKYMETHOOS 



SLOW DELIVERIES 

OVER INSISTENCE 
DF SALESPEOPLE 

INSOLENCE OF 
EMPLOYEES 

UNNECESSARY DE- 
LAYS IN SERVICE 

TACTLESS BUSI- 
NESS POLICIES 

BAD ARRANGE- 
MENT OF STORE 

IGNORANCE OF 
SALESPEOPLE 
ABOUT GOODS 

REFUSAL TO 
EXCHANGE 
PURCHASES 

POOR QUALITY 
OF GOODS 



5 10 15 26 25 30 35 40 45 SO 



Lumi 



WHY STORES LOSE CUSTOMERS 
This interesting chart illustrates specific reasons given by 100 intelli- 
gent persons for withdrawing their trade from retail shops. A signifi- 
cant fact worthy of note is that the commonest reason is indifference 
of salespeople while the poor quality of goods is the least common 
reason. Reproduced from "Making Your Store Work for You" 
published by A. W. Shaw Company 

88 



SALESMEN AND DEMONSTRATORS 89 

becoming electric range enthusiasts! Remember that men do 
best in the work they Hke best. And the man who is enthusiastic 
in his work will naturally win people through his enthusiasm 
which is always contagious. 

One of the first requisites of a salesman is courtesy. He should 
always be considerate, respectfully polite, even subservient and 
always ready to do any reasonable thing to please. Another 
requisite is a pleasing appearance. He must be clean-shaven, 
well-dressed. His appearance often governs the degree to which 
he is liked, and the influence he can exert on his prospect. An 
unshaven, slovenly-dressed salesman cannot inspire confidence 
in any woman. 

He must be diplomatic. Opinions, tastes, interests and view- 
points differ. So he must (ostensibly at least) conform to the 
prospect's ideas and make her believe that he thinks she is right. 
He should take it for granted — have it in mind as a permanent 
thought — that she is going to buy. One person can be uncon- 
sciously dominated by another in thought. A person often 
develops the attitude of mind, thought and opinion of the one 
talking to them. The salesman must therefore be confident 
of the sale. This thought in turn will breed confidence in the 
prospect's mind. 

He must be enthusiastic and cheerful. Someone has said: 
''A green salesman will make some sales — but a blue one hasn't 
a chance!" He must be frank. If a customer asks whether 
electric cookery is more expensive than fuel cookery, he should 
admit that it is in actual fuel cost. She will believe him and have 
a corresponding faith in everything else that he tells her. He 
must not be egotistical. He must not use superlatives and give 
the impression that the electric range is the greatest thing in 
the world. He must remember that modesty by its rarity com- 



90 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

mands attention and influences through its fascination. Boast- 
ing is repulsive to intelligent people and the salesman must not 
talk too much or appear to monopolize the conversation. 

Before a campaign begins it is advisable to have the salesmen 
and demonstrators study the electric range and read this book 
thoroughly. Moreover it is a good policy to direct, edit and ap- 
prove the salesman's selling talk before he uses it. In this way 
the sales manager will avoid having his men make erroneous 
statements during sales. 

To ''sell" a salesman on electric cookery is one of the most im- 
portant steps in a range campaign. Many central stations have 
either established or sent their salesmen to a cooking school to 
learn the fundamentals of preparing food. In reality a salesman 
is selling cookery and the more he knows about it the more suc- 
cessful he will become. 

A course like this not only makes the salesmen more familiar 
with the range and the better food it produces but it stimulates 
interest and creates confidence that no salesman can instill in 
his prospect when he lacks it himself. An analysis of unsuccessful 
electric range salesmen shows that they themselves were not 
absolutely ''sold" on electric cookery. 

One prominent central station employs a number of college 
students from a nearby university during the summer months as 
"prospect locators." The student is paid so much an hour for 
his time and a certain commission for range sales. He follows 
up leads with personal calls, invites the women down to the show 
room, making a special appointment for them to call at a certain 
hour on a certain day. If a woman does not come he telephones 
her and makes another appointment. This procedure is followed 
until he gets her into the salesroom and into the hands of a 
demonstrator. 



SALESMEN AND DEMONSTRATORS 91 

The Demonstrator, Both classes of demonstrators — the ones 
who teach the woman in her kitchen and the ones who conduct 
the pubUc demonstrations — should know the principles of domestic 
science ; the advantages and faults of all the present-day cooking 
devices ; the cooking rate ; how the bills are figured ; the technicalities 
of electric cookery — and how to talk diplomatically to women! 

When selecting demonstrators, remember that an attrac- 
tive and intelligent woman with a winning personality will 
inspire confidence and create the best impression among her 
audience. Experience has shown that it is an excellent practice 
to secure local women who are more or less known in the com- 
munity in which they are to give demonstrations. Their initial 
work with friends will be of unusual advantage. 

The demonstrator's work should be carefully planned and her 
talk written and standardized in collaboration with the sales 
manager. Her work is described in detail under Displays and 
Demonstrations, page 94. 

The home demonstrator should call on a new range owner at 
the time the service is turned on — and before the housewife has 
had an opportunity to cook a meal. This demonstrator follows 
closely the instructions under Educating the New User, 
page 175. She must know how to influence without flattery; 
teach without criticism ; educate without insult ; instruct without 
command and always bear in mind that ''the customer is always 
right:' 

Compensa tion. During the first few weeks of a range campaign 
a great deal of missionary work is necessary. Therefore a sales- 
man will often work assiduously and have nothing tangible to 
show for it. He therefore cannot profitably work on commission 
alone. He may often be discouraged to a certain extent, so some 



92 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

genuine inspiration is necessary to maintain his enthusiastic 
spirit, his aggressiveness and his untiring sales effort. This can 
not be accomplished by a commission alone. Therefore it is best 
to pay range salesmen both a salary and a commission — a small 
salary to support him and a commission to inspire him. 

Range and Parts, Stock 

Adequate Stock. Trying to sell ranges from a catalog is a poor 
and precarious policy. It can be done, but it is unsatisfactory to 
the prospect-purchaser, is ofttimes a serious obstacle to the sales- 
men and always an example of weak service which breeds a 
negative impression. 

Two important factors of a sale are : The actual demonstration 
of the range and its immediate delivery. Very often when a range 
has to be ordered from the manufacturer in a distant city and 
the purchaser is obliged to wait from one to four weeks for 
delivery, she loses her interest, thinks she would like to have a 
new dress or something else instead of the range and she cancels 
her order. So an adequate stock — with several models on the 
floor — is necessary in the successful merchandising of electric 
ranges. 

Types and Makes, The majority of central stations prefer to sell 
one manufacturer's line because it is more satisfactory to become 
thoroughly acquainted with one make than superficially ac- 
quainted with several lines. Other advantages are in the stand- 
ardizing of the ranges of the town and in securing one-time 
delivery of and larger discounts allowed for carload orders. 
Such a policy also minimizes and simplifies the repair parts, 
stock. 

But there are two distinct types of electric ranges : The regular 
type and the automatic type. The best plan is to carry a stock of 



RANGE AND PARTS, STOCK 93 

each as some women may have a decided preference. Women 
are often inclined toward the higher-priced ranges which should 
be borne in mind when placing initial orders. They view cheaper 
electric ranges as they do the cheaper automobile. It has been 
found that when a woman has been thoroughly sold on the idea 
of electric cookery she wants the best range on the floor — with 
white enamel splashers, trimmings and other features. 

Commercial managers have asked why manufacturers make 
so many different types of ranges ; why they did not standardize 
on two or three types. Answer : They do this because the demand 
exists. The housewives in different communities have different 
customs. For- example, the cabinet type range — with medium- 
height oven — predominates in the big city. In the small town, 
women prefer the low-oven range — probably through custom 
more than for any other reason. Then, other women like the 
elevated oven. Some want two ovens. So the demand is there — 
and the manufacturers must meet it. 

Repair Parts ^ Stock, As prompt and efficient service is highly 
important, the Service Department should carry at all times an 
ample supply of range parts: Surface and oven units, switches, 
fuses, resistance wire for repairing units, nuts, bolts, etc. 



IT IS unwise for a range manufacturer's 
salesman to criticise or disparage a com- 
petitor's range because it has a cooker, 
an automatic control or some other attach- 
ment which his range does not have. All 
such features are legitimate. All have a 
purpose. All have a right to their place on 
the range. Moreover a salesman's company 
might adopt one or all of these features 
one day and he will have a difficult time 
overcoming the things he has said in the 
past. 



Displays and Public Demonstrations 

Variety of Displays, Regular range displays should be estab- 
lished in the salesroom and its show windows, restaurant 
windows, show windows of vacant stores, range sections of 
hardware and department stores and temporary displays in 
home-furnishing exhibitions, electrical shows, carnivals and 
county fairs. 

Announcements of coming events should be closely watched 
and every opportunity taken to loan ranges to church bazaars. 
Red Cross workers, food conservation exhibits and demonstra- 
tions of food and house furnishing products by traveling staffs 
of large manufacturers. This is all good advertising. 

Show windows of vacant stores can usually be rented at low 
cost. A neat range display should be put in and changed at least 
once a week. Such a window should include cards which tell 
the reader that information and advertising may be secured at 
the main salesroom of the electric company. It is a good plan to 
sell a range to the prominent restaurants and get them to use it 
in their window for the first few months. This will not only 
prove a profitable attraction for them but an invaluable adver- 
tisement for the central station. 

In such displays as electric shows, carnivals, bazaars and 
similar exhibits, one or two ranges should be temporarily con- 
nected for the cooking of biscuits or cookies which can be served 
to visitors with tea, hot chocolate or lemonade — depending on 
the season. During such displays names and addresses should 
be taken and given to the sales manager. 

Salesroom. Several different -sized ranges should be on exhi- 
bition — brightly polished and harmoniously arranged. No appli- 
ances nor other goods of any kind should be displayed on the 

94 



DISPLAYS AND PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS 95 




An excellent range window display showing the range in its right "atmos- 

phere"^the kitchen. One of the fundamental laws in the display of 

merchandise is to show the goods in their proper environment—in the 

place where they give their service. 



range nor placed in the oven. One or two ranges should be con- 
nected for demonstrating the operation of the switches and the 
heating of the units. A good supply of advertising should be 
nearby and every visitor to the store, irrespective of his or her 
interest in the electric range should be given a folder. 

Show Windows. The show window is ten times as valuable as 
any space in the store. The purpose of a show window is to attract 
the eye, create interest and get the passer-by to come into the 
store. Therefore one of the best ways of making a window pro- 
duce results is to include a large readable card offering some 
"free special" booklet, folder or novelty to visitors. 



96 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

Several years ago, a large department store learned that if they 
could get a woman into the center of the store — have her walk 
by a number of bargain counters — she would invariably 
make a number of purchases. So they established a plan for a 
week or ten days whereby they "sold" brand new $5 gold pieces 
for $4.90 from 8:30 a.m. until 2:00 p.m., at the office of their 
cashier on the top floor. 

To get to the elevator the women had to walk from the front 
to the back of the store and pass a number of bargain sales prom- 
inently displayed and advertised by large cards. Thousands of 
women came to the , store to take advantage of this offer and 
sales were very greatly increased. 

During the range campaign the show windows should be given 
exclusively to range displays which should be changed at least 
twice a week to maintain interest. The more thought and money 
expended in making the window attractive, the more effective 
it will be in drawing people into the store. Remember that a 
display is good or bad according to whether the goods or the 
setting predominates. 

If the eye is instantly attracted to the range the window is a 
success. If the setting is jumbled, filled with a number of 
appliances and no object in particular is remembered after 
the passer-by leaves the window, it is not a success. Manufac- 
turers are glad to assist in suggesting new displays and ofttimes 
furnish material such as streamers, window cards and similar 
pieces. 

A vital factor in a window display is Atmosphere. In other 
words a range should be shown in a kitchen setting or scene. 
Moreover displays should be very simple and dressed with the 
one purpose of driving home one point at a time. The less in 



DISPLAYS AND PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS 



97 




Range demonstration room of the City Electric Lighting Co., Vincennes, 
Ind. showing a "Prospect-Demonstration" in progress. These ladies who 
were interested in electric cookery brought their own dough and did 
their own demonstrating. This plan is one of the most effective ways of 
proving the many advantages of the range which is ofttimes found 
necessary during the first few weeks of a campaign. 



them the more effective they will be. Some action or motion 
also attracts more people than a "dead" display. .Moreover a 
window should be brilliantly lighted at night because the average 
person's mind is relaxed and more sensitive to impression, because 
a large number of people like to go "window shopping" and 
because the displays stand out much better than they do in the 
day-time. 

Even a small store will gain trade by intelligent attention to 
its windows. The fact that large merchants have invested for- 
tunes in window fittings and can afford to maintain expert help 
is no reason why the small merchant should neglect his windows. 
A bright, fresh, simple but effectively conceived window will help 
not only the appearance but also the sales in any electric shop. 



Demonstrations, The first demonstration should be the open- 
ing feature of the campaign. There are two ways to get an in- 



98 



MERCHANDISING METHODS 




Demonstration platform of the Utah Power & Light Company's Cooking 
School where the lectures were delivered and the general cooking instruc- 
tions were given. 



terested audience for this first exhibition. One is to issue special 
invitations to a selected list of promising prospects. The other 
is to run an admission ticket coupon in a newspaper announce- 
ment the night before the demonstration. This coupon requests 
the name and address of the person attending. These names are 
kept by the sales manager for his file of live prospects. 

If a special invitation letter is used it is a good plan to impress 
upon the addressee that this demonstration is limited to a very 
exclusive few and that she was chosen as one who would probably 
be more interested than the lady next door. If the sales manager 
is desirous of having a certain few prominent women attend, he 
should have a salesman telephone and extend to them another 
cordial invitation on the morning of the demonstration. 

Before the ladies begin to arrive, it is a good plan for the 
demonstrator to actually bake a cake or a loaf of bread to become 
acquainted with the voltage. A slight variation will make a great 
difference in the time of baking. If the demonstrator is not ac- 



DISPLAYS AND PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS 99 

quainted with the range and how quickly and efficiently it is 
working she will probably underbake or overbake her food, be- 
come confused and give the harmful impression that the range 
is * 'funny" or that she does not know what she is doing. 

The demonstrator should have her pans greased and her cook- 
ing accessories handy on the table. A pot of flowers might be 
placed on top of the oven to show that virtually no heat escapes 
and that plants can live in close proximity because of the non- 
consumption of oxygen and the non-radiation of heat. 
Specific Action, The demonstration should start promptly 
when scheduled. The demonstrator begins with a preliminary 
talk on the advantages of electric cookery — its better cooked 
food, cleanliness, comfort, coolness, safety and economy. Then 
she describes the fundamental construction of the range — omitting 
all technicalities! Next she turns on the oven switches and 
finishes the preparation of the food which should be partially 
prepared before the women arrive. 

The better plan is to cook dishes which women usually dislike 
to try because of the possibility of poor results. As the demon- 
strator is heating the oven, she explains its scientific construc- 
tion, operation and excellent results. By this time it will be 
heated to the right temperature. She places the food in it and 
continues her talk explaining the new method of oven cookery — 
how one cooks with little water, how it is unnecessary to watch 
the food and how different articles are cooked — more deliciously, 
more digestibly and more nourishingly. See Better Cooked Food, 
page 135. 

She explains the saving in the shrinkage of meats, the unusual 
moisture retained in baked bread and cakes, and the nourishing 
values which are conserved in vegetables and soup. 

Next comes a description of how the range fits into the modern 



100 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

home today; how it is in keeping with the telephone, electric 
light, electric cleaner and other domestic devices. Then she 
explains the cooking rate, cost of operation and introductory 
offer — if one exists. By this time her cooking will probably be 
finished. Whatever she has baked — cake, cookies or biscuits, 
should be served with some sort of liquid refreshment. 

Campaigns and Sales Ideas 

Importance, Campaigns should be held periodically to main- 
tain interest in electric cookery and stimulate range sales. Such a 
campaign should be an accelerator rather than spasmodic mer- 
chandising effort, for the latter will create intensive interest only 
to be followed by a depressing reaction when sales will be practi- 
cally dead until another burst of sales enthusiasm is staged. 

Activities. Before the initial campaign is begun ranges should 
be ordered and every price and selling policy determined. Sales 
talks and demonstrator's lectures should be written, standardized 
and memorized and lists of prospects compiled by the sales 
manager. 

The attractive feature of each campaign will be the demon- 
strations and the purpose of all advertising should be ostensibly 
to get the ladies to attend. If it is found they are not easily 
interested, some novelty — a kitchen utensil, a cook book, or 
something else — should be used as an inducement to have them 
attend the "cooking lectures.'^ 

No matter how difficult it will be to first get women interested 
in electric cookery, they will eventually be enthusiastic when 
they learn of its scientific method, cleanliness, and safety. 

Each campaign should be advertised to extend over a definite 
(limited) period which will put a time limit on whatever special 



CAMPAIGNS AND SALES IDEAS 



101 




An unusual demonstration idea which proved effective to a utility. This 
truck was driven throughout the territory, to country fairs, carnivals, 
and similar places where a cooking demonstration would attract consid- 
erable attention. The sides of the truck were folded up at night. 



offers are made. Women not taking immediate action in attend- 
ing a demonstration or buying a range will lose out on the "special 
inducements" offered. 

Sales Ideas. The following sales plans have been used by- 
prominent central stations and have proved practicable and 
successful : 

1. A campaign put on by the Minneapolis General Electric 
Company was entitled "The House Next Door." The object of 
this campaign was to concentrate sales effort on the homes in 
the immediate neighborhood of a range installation. 



102 MERCHANDISING METHODS 



Dear Madam:- 

On page 80 of June "Good Housekeeping," you will find an 
excellent article on Electric Cooking by a well known expert. 

For fear that you have not already seen it, we are sending you 
a copy. Read it over and then come into our Electric Cooking 
Bureau the next time you are down town. 

THE MINNEAPOLIS GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. 



Sample of a postcard which was mailed periodically 
to the customers of the Minneapolis General Electric 
Co. It directed attention to certain current magazine 
articles on Electric Cookery, Kitchen Efficiency or some 
allied subject. It is a live, timely idea and assists in 
maintaining interest in the electric range. 

This was done for two reasons: First, because additional 
transformers would not be necessary; second, because the first 
range owner is usually willing (if not proud) to talk about her 
range to her neighbors. 

2. The Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Boston con- 
centrated effort on architects, builders and officers of home 
building associations, with the result that the greater percentage 
of new homes and apartments in Boston, built during the three 
years before building restrictions became effective in 1917 were 
equipped with electric ranges. 

Whenever an installation was going in, the Edison Company 
erected an illuminated billboard in front of the building upon 
which was stated that the building was modem in every respect 
and therefore equipped with electric ranges. They would also 
advertise the building in the real estate sections of Sunday 
papers. 

This billboard and Sunday newspaper advertising had a three- 
fold purpose: First, it won the good-will and co-operation of the 
architects; secondly, it assisted the owners in renting and third, 
it educated the people of Boston to the fact that new buildings 
were not modern imless they were equipped with electric ranges. 



CAMPAIGNS AND SALES IDEAS 103 



LABOR SAVING 

An electric nmge deUven heat in its perfect form— Mo fnel, 
no flame, no dampers, no constant watcfafnl eye needed—Tou simply torn a switch — 
The Clock and Switch Key regulate y^nr entire cooking. 

Besides these four weekly Prizes, The Edison Co. offers two Special Prises of $10 
and $5 for the best two Jingles printed for them, to be awarded to writers living on 
their lines. Prizes to be applied, first, toward wirinsr their hoases on The Easy Pay- 
ment Plan, second, if usera of Electricity, toward the purchase of Merchandise. Prizes- 
awarded at close of Contest. 

Tke roottar crow» (t mlinlght, the night \t turned to d»y. The old c«»lhod» «nd the* kcro8«B«-c>iis 

Were thrown the ullow candle and the keroteae away; On (he race ta the junk-hfap hav* joloed hands. 

The lUra h*Ve ceased to twiakle. tte moo,ii b«a hid her face. For the electric range eooka oar meala today, 

for the Edison Electric Comp«nV lllualnales the place. And the'.mndero lights have come to !«iay* 

W. A. Gob. Anole. 

Quoth Joliy ioe: "All bleasUcs n*w. Ntf dust from ashes fiyihg 'round, eo a^hes now to sin. 

Prom Hearea above to BartK below; No wood to saw and lui( upsulrs, no heavy coal to lift. 

Thai guerdon brlght.^ the gift or alght. My work made light and wlfey's. loo. by our' electric rang*. 

MakCH nan en}oy Electric Llghi.'' It's cheaper, too. than buying coal. Trylt. Make th* ehaaga. 
Heel- Sbcrlocko. 




The Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Boston 



One of the newspaper advertisements of The Edison Electric Illuminating 

Co. which described their '* jingle" contest. This advertising idea created 

unusual interest in electric cookery throughout their territory. 

3. Another company instead of holding typical demonstrations 
established a series of "Electric Luncheons." Special, personally- 
written invitations were sent to a select prospect list — women 
of such a class as would represent possible buyers. Luncheons 
were served to an average of thirty or forty women. The cookery 
was done on the electric range following which were talks by the 
demonstrator and the sales manager. A strong effort was made 
not to let one woman escape without ordering a range outright or 
signing for at least a trial installation. 

4. The City Electric Lighting Company of Vincennes, Indiana, 
organized the Ladies' Aid Society of the First Christian Church 
into six committees, the membership of each committee being 
made up of women residing in different parts of the town. A 
special room was fitted up for them by the central station and 
furnished with heating, lighting and cooking energy gratis. The 

Company also furnished ranges and all necessary accessories for 



104 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

the demonstrator. Each day in the week one of the six commit- 
tees took charge, having their friends bring bread or pastries 
already prepared and ready to go into the oven. The visitors did 
their own baking and demonstrating, under competent direction. 
At the end of the week the central station was assured that nearly 
every woman in the town had actually operated one of the elec- 
tric ranges. 

All of the food cooked was sold to members of the church and 
the money was turned over to a fund for charity work. The 
general manager of the company states, "We found everybody 
talking about the ranges and we actually sold quite a number 
during the demonstration. For two months after this self- 
demonstration was staged, sales were made to the friends of the 
Ladies' Aid Society." 

5. After a central station has installed several commercial bake 
ovens in bakeries or grocery stores, a good plan is to supply them 
with little tags of some bright color which can be attached to 
each loaf. The message will say that this bread is different from 
any other bread they ever tasted because it has been baked elec- 
trically — by the cleanest and most sanitary method. This will 
not only prove to be good advertising for the central station but 
such excellent publicity for the bakery or grocery store that they 
usually will co-operate in absorbing one-half of the expense of 
printing the tags. 

6. At an Electrical Show in its city a central station had a 
large exhibit of electric ranges and held cooking demonstrations 
in which women of five different nations participated in native 
costumes. They cooked their native dishes. Not only did they 
attract large crowds with their odd-looking costumes but they 
passed out little baked dainties and folders, and secured names 
of interested visitors. 

7. Another central station holds profitable contests periodically. 
The first one they staged was a contest in which they offered three 
prizes to school children for the best essays on electric cookery. 
The first prize was $25, the second $15 and the third was $5. 
Every child in the town enthusiastically wrote a paper on it. 



Prospects and Follow- Up Work 

Classification, Scientific electric range selling requires a sys- 
tematic division or classification of the field with a prescribed 
merchandising plan for each class. The character of effort is 
determined by the financial condition and mode of living of 
each class, and its possible knowledge of and attitude toward 
the electric range. Three classes of Prospects are to be considered : 

Class C — "Poor" Prospects 
Class B — "Good" Prospects 
Class A^"Interested" Prospects 

So the sales work divides itself into three parts: Combing 
the entire town for the complete classification of these three 
kinds of prospects; then watching Class C Prospects become 
Class B Prospects and educating Class B Prospects to become 
Class A Prospects. 

Class C Prospects. The Class C Prospect is a member of a 
poor family who at the present time cannot afford to purchase 
an electric range — no matter how attractive the plan of payment 
offered — and despite the fact that she has electric service. Any 
real sales effort directed toward such a prospect would largely be 
wasted. But it is a good plan however to send such a woman 
an occasional piece of advertising and to keep in touch with the 
better ones as they are likely at any time to have sufficient 
money with which to buy a range. Thus they would become 
Class B Prospects. 

Class B Prospects. The Class B Prospect is a woman who at 
the present time is financially able to purchase a range. Thus 
she is a "good" prospect and one to whom a salesman can profit- 
ably send advertising. He should interest her to the point where 

105 



106 - MERCHANDISING METHODS 

she will make an inquiry of some kind so he may put her in Class 
A and concentrate personal sales effort upon her. The names of 
Class B Prospects can be compiled from club membership lists, 
blue book, marriage license reports, and through company em- 
ployes. In educating these Class B Prospects, it is better to 
send several pieces of advertising before a personal call is made 
— and each piece should try to solicit a request for further in- 
formation. If such an inquiry should be made this makes the 
person an "interested" prospect which puts quite a different 
aspect on the situation and gives the salesman the desired op- 
portunity (or excuse) for making a personal call. 

Class A Prospects. Class A Prospect is a woman who has given 
her name at a demonstration, returned a coupon of a newspaper 
advertisement or in some other way has signified that she is 
interested in electric cookery. She is different from a Class B 
Prospect in that she has expressed herself as being receptive to 
information on this subject. The salesman immediately begins 
to educate, influence and ''sell" her by sending personally- 
written sales letters and finally telephoning her for a definite 
appointment to call. The salesman must remember that indi- 
vidual buying varies as greatly as people; so his methods, plans 
and ways of working must be adapted to each individual prospect. 

The monied woman buys the electric range for the better food 
which it produces. The middle class woman who does her own 
housework has a greater appreciation of the comfort and con- 
venience. Thus sales talk must conform to the person. See 
The Prospect y page 128. 

As hotels, restaurants, clubs and similar institutions have the 
money and are really Class B Prospects, it is well to have a 
card index of these commercial cooking prospects and solicit 



PROSPECTS AND FOLLOW-UP WORK 107 

them first with personally written letters and then later by sales- 
men. These letters should feature the many advantages of 
electric cooking, rate, concessions and other attractive points. 
A commercial cooking demonstrator for chefs, managers and 
owners also proves a stimulus to sales. 

Sales Development 

General Work. Immediately after the first campaign has been 
well started, the general promotion of electric cookery should 
begin. Plans should be drawn and a direct effort made for the 
complete cultivation of the cooking field which divides itself into 
three classes: Domestic, Commercial and Miscellaneous. 

Domestic work is developing the sale of ranges in homes. 
Commercial effort is in selling the different kinds of restaurant 
equipment to institutions doing large quantities of cooking. Mis- 
cellaneous activity is in promoting the sale of portable hot-plates 
and small lamp-socket ovens in various places. See paragraph 
on Miscellaneous Activity, page 118. 

The electric range must be kept continuously before the public 
eye. Everyone in the town should read at least once a week 
some range advertisement or notice in the local papers. They 
should see a range every time they go downtown, attend a church 
bazaar, go to a carnival, visit the Electric Shop or the hardware 
store. They should read about electric cookery on the menus 
of restaurants and tea rooms, and on the backs of their light 
bills. In fact everywhere they go they should see a range or 
hear something about electric cookery. This work will create 
consumer interest which will eventually become consumer accep- 
tance and then consumer demand. 



108 



MERCHANDISING METHODS 




Electric Cooking School of the Union Electric Light & Power Co., St. Louis, 
which was in charge of a well-known domestic science instructor and one 
assistant. At every third lesson, about 25% of the class actually prepared 
food and cooked on the ranges while the others watched and listened to 
the lecture and the instructions. 



Domestic Field. 

through : 



The cultivation of the domestic field is 



Public demonstrations to which invitations are issued in news- 
paper advertisements or by personal letters to a special list. 

Frequent newspaper advertisements to maintain general interest. 

Electric cooking publicity news in the reading columns of the 
local papers. 

Weekly oj semi-monthly sales letters to the best prospects. 

Cookery Service Bureau which furnishes electric cooking recipes. 
They can be printed on the backs of monthly light bills or post 
cards and mailed to both range owners and prospects. 

A school for the education of housewives and domestics. 

Ranges exhibited in every possible place: Bazaars, exhibits, 
fairs, "shows," department, hardware and other stores and 
in show windows and similar places. 

Lectures by a range salesman illustrated with lantern slides, 
charts, pictures and posters. 

The public demonstrations and the exhibitions of ranges are 



SALES DEVELOPMENT 



109 



A SPECIALIZED BUREAU OF COOKING EXPERTS 
READY TO HELP YOU 

Ij/'^PUR Electric Cooking Bureau was established 
II V^y I in the early part of 1916 for the special pur- 
||-n-t»)[ pose of benefiting the housewives of Minne- 
apolis by offering authoritative advice on cooking. 

In the first year of its existence it has collected a 
large number of recipes and a vast amount of valu- 
able information pertaining to cooking in general. 

Miss Bernice Bell, who is our Domestic Science 
Expert, has helped develop the Bureau to a high 
state of efficiency and usefulness. 

As a matter of fact, she js, literally, a "doctor of 
cooking", for her experience has brought her into 
contact with almost every conceivable problem in 
cooking. 

It is quite possible that Miss Bell will be able to 
make suggestions and give you just the recipe you 
you have been looking for. 



Call and see her any lime. Bui he sure lo mail ihe allached post 
card JO ihal you will receiue her fa\orile recipes from time lo lime. 



THE MINNEAPOLIS GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. 

220 Loeb Arcade 



Page from the Cooking Bureau Folder 
published by the Minneapolis General 
Electric Co. It described the purpose and 
advantages of the Bureau and solicited 
cooking questions and names for the 
recipe service. 



described under Displays and Demonstrations, page 94. The 
newspaper advertisements, sales letters and publicity notices are 
described under Advertising, page 150. 

The monthly recipe service is a plan that has been promoted 
for a long time by the Minneapolis General Electric Company 
in which they have maintained a cooking service bureau that has 
not only printed recipes on the backs of their monthly light bills 
but helped solve the cooking problems of any woman requesting 
this co-operation. 

This bureau has not only rendered a real service to the pur- 



110 



MERCHANDISING METHODS 



An Unsolicited Letter from an Electric Range User 

To The Minnupoli* Cenanl Dectric Co. 

"No doubt you will be inlerested in knowing how I get along with mf 
'CI' electric range. 

"I can say 1 would certainly hate to part with it and I am tare that anyone 
who has used an electric range would feel the same way. Some people think cook- 
ing with electricity is very expensive, but I find it a very economical fuel as well 
as clean, safe and comfortable. 

"The average of my bill, per month for the twelve months of 1917 were 
$3.64 — this is for cookbg, baking, lighting, also have an electric vacuum cleaner, 
flat iron and toaster. 1 especially like electric cooking for dried fruits and cereaU 
because they swell up larger than with any other method of cooking and never 
scorch by turning it on 'low,' and I never use a double boiler. 



3418 Humboldt Ave. N. 



Sincerely your», 

Mf^. T. O. SCHRODER." 



jiSK FOR MISS BELL'S FOOD CONSERVATION SUGGESTIONS 



RECIPE NO. 10. 

Rice and Commcal Muilliis. 

H c. commenl 
^ c. white lloD 

1 t. Hlllt I CRK 

3 t. baking; pon-der 3 t. xliortenlnc 
METHOD! Sift dry Infirredlents, add 
separated rice, beaten 
«Be yollci niill<, and 
beat well. Add the 
shortenlnK and beaten 
eKK Tvhlte. Fill muffin 
tina tivctblrda full. 
DAKlNGt Preheat the oven to 4H 
by tnrniner both oven 
■vTltchea to Inll. then 
tarn npper burner off. 
Pat mnfllna In the oven 
and bake 25 minutes. 

Electric Cooking Bureau 

The Mlmeapttlt Gen. Elec. Co. 
Main SlOO T. S. 44 210 



Sample of Recipe Form which was mailed periodically to a list of range 
prospects and owners by the Minneapolis General Electric Co. Note that 
the left side contained a letter of commendation, the right side, the recipe. 
This idea was the basis for cultivating the electric range field and was 
the indirect result of the majority of the range sales. 



chasers of the electric range in teaching them to prepare new 
dishes and become better cooks, but it creates an unusual interest 
in the minds of prospects. This service has been one of the chief 
factors in developing the domestic range field in Minneapolis. 

A permanent cooking school was established about two years 
ago by the Union Electric Light & Power Company in St. 
Louis. The purpose was to educate the housewives and domestics 
in the art of cooking electrically, irrespective of electric range 
ownership. A large advertisement was placed in the local papers 
announcing the school and the details of the plan of enrollment. 
It stated that $7.50 would be paid every pupil completing the 
full course of ten lessons. So many women flocked to take 
advantage of this offer that the capacity of the school was filled 
the second day after the advertisement appeared. 'The company 
found it was so easy to obtain pupils that the offer of $7.50 was 
later withdrawn. 

Classes were held every morning and afternoon — fifty members 



SALES DEVELOPMENT m 



Brighter and Happier Hours in the Kitchen 

Made Possible by the 

ELECTRIC RANGE 

THE IVIODERIV WAY 



Free School of Practical Cookery 



To be Conducted by 



Clief W>^man 

A Culinary AJ>tist of International F'ame 

HE WILL TELL YOU HOW 



Demonstrationi at 2:30 p. m. Every Day to Saturday, June 30th inclusive 
To be held at 303 Santa Monica Boulevarc* 

Southern California Edison Company 



Newspaper announcement of the Southern California Edison Company's 
Cooking School which was in charge of a well-known chef. This school 
traveled from town to town of the territory in a special railroad car com- 
pletely equipped with a model kitchen and range showroom. The demon- 
stration announced in this particular advertisement, however, was held 
in one of the comnanv's showrooms. 

to a class and each class attended three times a week. At every 
third lesson, members of the class would do actual cooking. 
About twelve women cooked in each class while thirty-eight 
watched and listened to the lectures. The school was very suc- 
cessful and obtained excellent results in developing the domestic 
field in St. Louis. 

The Southern California Edison Company — which has more 
electric ranges on its lines than any other central station in the 



112 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

world — maintains a ''School of Practical Electric Cookery" 
which travels from town to town of the S. C. E. territory, and 
gives cooking courses and public demonstrations. It is conducted 
under the management of a well-known chef and has proved 
very successful in the promotion of the electric cookery idea. 

The plan of having a salesman prepare a lecture on electric 
cookery which is illustrated with lantern slides has been tried 
out effectively by a number of central stations and some manu- 
facturers. Whenever possible, the salesman secures a place on 
the program of church socials and bazaars, conventions, women's 
club meetings, benefits and similar affairs where he will have an 
opportunity to talk to a number of women. This talk should be 
well illustrated with interesting slides which can be secured from 
range manufacturers or the Merchandising Service Department 
of The Society for Electrical Development. 

Architects and Builders. In the majority of electrically -served 
communities today the architect, contractor and builder do 
not recognize the electric range as standard equipment for the 
modern home as they do not know it is practicable from every 
viewpoint. Therefore when a central station begins the promo- 
tion of electric cookery, one of the greatest fields for education is 
among the architects and builders. They must be taught that the 
electric range is practicable, its cost of operation well within the 
means of the average family and that a new home is not modern 
today unless it includes an electric range. The apartment 
house builder either erecting for permanent ownership or specula- 
tion must realize that he should install the most modern devices 
or the apartments will not rent, nor will the buildings sell. 

One of the first moves in the promotion of the electric range is 
to give an electrically-cooked dinner to the architects, contractors 
and officers of building associations. This should be given at one 



SALES DEVELOPMENT 113 

of the prominent hotels or in a large room of the central station 
offices. It should be followed by "facts-and-figures" talks by 
manufacturers' salesmen and the central station sales manager. 
These talks may include the following subjects: 

Progress of electric cookery today 

Practicability of the range 

Advantages of electric cookery 

Description of the cooking rate 

How lighting and cooking current can be bought at wholesale 
through one master meter. 

The economy of adequate wiring for future use of a range when 
lighting circuit is being installed. 

The advantages to the owner of the building 

The advantages to the housewife 

Advantage of the range in apartments 

Then a range should be sold to every man present before he 
leaves the dining room because nothing will convince a person 
of the superiority of electric cookery more than having a range 
in his own home. Such a dinner will do more to lay the founda- 
tion for future sales than any other activity. 

Securing their Interest. The foundation for the general 
development of electric cookery in a city is the confidence and 
co-operation of the architects. So range manufacturers, central 
stations and The Society for Electrical Development have been 
educating architects and builders for the past two or three years. 

Both the Society and the manufacturers have taken space in 
Sweet's Catalogue, the buying guide of the architectural trade. 
They have published booklets and folders and have had men 
work directly with the building trade. 

One central station has concentrated sales effort on the archi- 
tects and today a large number of the new apartment houses in 
its city are equipped with electric ranges. After these ranges 



114 



MERCHANDISING METHODS 



were sold the central station placed advertisements in the real 
estate sections of the Sunday papers with a double purpose in 
mind. First: To let other architects and builders know that 
certain buildings were installing ranges and second: To adver- 
tise the building and give it added value to facilitate the rent- 
ing of the individual apartments. 

Service Bureau for Architects. The Portland Railway, Light 
& Power Co. of Portland, Oregon, has for several years main- 
tained an Illuminating Engineering Bureau as a division of the 
Commercial Department. This bureau is in charge of competent 
illuminating engineers who prepare plans and specifications for 
about thirty architectural firms of Portland. They also check 

and criticize wiring 
and illuminating 
plans for other archi- 
tects and builders. 
This work has been 
done without expense 
to the architects and 
has provided them 
with proper wiring 
plans, particularly for 
the larger buildings 
which made it possible 
for wiring contractors 
to bid on the same 
basis for wiring con- 
tracts. 

Sample of range-apartment advertisements of It WaS foUnd when 

the Edison Electric Illuminating Co., Boston. 

The idea behind this campaign was the same this burCaU WaS estab- 

as the St. Louis plan. These advertisements 

appeared in the Real Estate columns of the Hshed that thc archi- 

newspapers, generally in the Sunday issues. 




SALES DEVELOPMENT 115 

tects had vague ideas on illumination, proper distribution of 
circuits, carrying capacity of wire and the proper way to prepare 
specifications which would be understood by the electrical con- 
tractors. 

At first the work was confined to office buildings, hotels and 
other large buildings but was gradually expanded to include 
apartment houses and better class residences . In the past two years 
the erection of large buildings decreased in number and this 
bureau gradually encouraged the architects to permit it to assist 
them in writing wiring specifications for residences, apartment 
houses, stores and smaller premises. This work of course always 
included an adequate number of "convenience outlets" and 
ample wiring for ranges and water heaters. Today the majority 
of the architectural firms of Portland specify electric ranges in 
practically every new building. This shows that the architects 
can be gradually educated to the electric range idea. 

Ranges in Apartments. The electric range is even more ad- 
vantageous in an apartment kitchen than it is in the kitchen of 
a residence. As a rule the apartment kitchen is small 'and lacks 
sufficient ventilation. Therefore it demands a clean, cool, con- 
venient and compact cooking device. 

Apartment tenants move frequently and there has to be some- 
thing new, better and different in the new home to attract them 
to it. The electric range is this "something different." Moreover 
it saves the apartment house owner from frequent redecorating 
expense which the new tenant often insists upon. It also reduces 
the fire hazard. 

When a builder installs electric ranges he obtains higher 
rents, more desirable tenants, increases the value of his building 
and in many instances reduces his fire risk. 



116 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

Cooking without a Rate. Electric ranges can be sold most 
readily to new homes — particulariy new apartments. If a new 
apartment house is erected today and fuel ranges installed it will 
be many years before the central station can induce the owner 
to install electric ranges. If a cooking rate for individual instal- 
lations does not exist, central stations can still permit large 
apartment houses to purchase their lighting and cooking current 
through one large meter. In recent years, large real estate oper- 
ators in many big cities have erected buildings of forty or more 
apartments and have installed electric ranges on such a contract. 
The contract calls for the purchase of all current used for cooking 
and lighting, appliances, elevators, laundry equipment, electric 
cleaners and other electrical devices through one master meter. 

The monthly consumption amounts to thousands of kilowatt 
hours and is so large that the central station can afford to sell 
the current on a low power rate. The owners in turn either 
include the cost of the current in the rent or re -sell it at cost or 
slight profit. When sold at 'cost or slight profit it approximates 
the cost of fuel cookery. It therefore makes electric cookery 
economically practical in towns not having a general cooking rate. 
The central station can afford — in fact they find a good profit in 
such a contract. They do not have to read separate meters, keep 
separate accounts, deliver and collect separate bills. In other 
words it produces large revenue with small overhead. 

One of the largest installations of this kind is in the Hunter 
Inn, Omaha, Nebraska where fifty-seven electric ranges are in- 
stalled. 

Domestic Science Field. In the United States today there are 
about 15,000 public and private academies and high and normal 
schools having an attendance of more than 1,400,000 young 
women. This offers a tremendous educational field for electric 



SALES DEVELOPMENT 



117 



cookery. A large number 
of these schools are al- 
ready equipped with 
electric cooking appar- 
atus but the field as a 
whole is surprisingly 
undeveloped. 

The reputation of a 
cooking school or a do- 
mestic science class de- 
pends entirely upon its 
methods. One of the 
things it is teaching is 
the use of the latest and 
best apparatus. For this 
reason alone electric 
ranges and ovens should 
be in every cooking class- 
room today. The ad- 
vantage to the central 
station lies in the daily 
publicity given electric 
cookery by the pupils. 
They will learn how to 
cook electrically and 
therefore will want elec- 
tric ranges when they 
have homes of their own. 
They will talk about 
and "sell" the electric 
cooking idea every day. 




Yorkleigh Apartments 

4954 West Pine Bouleyard 

36 Perfectly Appointed Apartments with an 

Electric Range 

m EVERY KITCHEN 
No modern home is como'eto without an Electric Range. 

Economical— Sanitary— Safe 
Modern Convenience— Better Results 

htk.ni to tdl vou what the Electric Range means to the busy woman of today, 

BeU, Hain 3220 Klnlocb, Central 3330 



Union Electric*^'^ 



Company 



49a0nnr ■ 30aK<r«4 - Xai.Srmt 

MEMBUt ADVEKTISINC CLUB OF I 



Sample of the range-apartment advertise- 
ments which were published by the Union 
Electric Light & Power Co., St. Louis. 
The idea behind this campaign was two- 
fold: First, it instilled in the minds of 
both tenants and builders that "no home 
is complete without an electric range;" 
second, it added value and popularity 
to each individual building equipped 
with electric ranges. 



118 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

Commercial Service* Large electric ranges, bake ovens, toast- 
ers, broilers, plate and food warmers, frying griddles, steam 
table and coffee urn heaters can be sold to: 



Asylums 


Colleges 


Jails 


Seminaries 


Bakeries 


Cooking Classes 


Mines 


Ships 


Churches 


Hospitals 


Restaurants 


Various schools 


Clubs 


Hotels 


Sanitariums 





The best move to bring about such sales is to give a dinner to 
the owners and managers and later a demonstration for the chefs 
at which all cooking is done electrically in the dining room and 
is followed by talks on electric cookery illustrated with lantern 
slides or motion pictures. These talks are from the consumer's 
viewpoint and different from the ones delivered to the architects 
and builders. They should sell the idea of electric cookery just 
as it is sold to the housewife. Commercial equipment has ad- 
vantages which are described under Commercial Cooking Appar- 
atus, page 194. 

Intensive sales effort should be concentrated on these men be- 
fore they leave the dining room, and ranges sold for home use. 
Get them to install a range on trial or on time payments — almost 
anything to get one in their homes as this will mean the sale of 
other ranges and aid in the future development of commercial 
cookery in the town. Remember one range sold will probably 
lead to the sale of two or three others. 

Miscellaneous Activity, Miscellaneous activity can be de- 
scribed as the sale of portable hot-plates and lamp socket ovens 
and grills to laboratories, studios, doctor's and dentist's offices, 
light housekeeping rooms and bachelor apartments, buffets, soda 
fountains and many similar places where a little cooking or 
heating must be done quickly and in a limited space. 



Office and Warehouse Forms 

Modern Card System, The central stations which are under- 
taking range merchandising today should take advantage of the 
experiences of the pioneer central stations and copy as closely as 
possible their office and warehouse forms which have been in 
use long enough to prove their practicability. A complete set of 
excellent examples of forms which are now in use are illustrated 
here. 

Prospect Card, The range prospect card is one of the most 
comprehensive of the set. It should contain certain, definite in- 
formation about the person in mind; facts which will sooner or 
later help in making the sale. For example: 

Name Kinds and number of pieces of advertising 

Address sent to prospects — dates? 

Telephone number Has attended demonstration? 

Number in family Has friend or neighbor an electric range? 

Present fuel used Installment plan described 

Present type range Type range favored by prospect 

Number of rooms Apparent reason why prospect will buy. 

Cook? Salesman's name. 
Rate quoted 

On the back of the card should be a history of the progress 
being made with the prospect. The development of this work 
has a significent bearing on the actual sale. It is recommended 
that these cards be kept in two different drawers, one marked 
"Class B" and the other "Class A" prospects. See Prospects and 
Follow- Up Work, page 105. 

Salesman's ** Score Card,*' The purpose of the "score card" 
is to give the salesman a graphic resume of his work day by day 
and can be used by him to determine his efficiency. It can also be 

119 



120 



MERCHANDISING METHODS 



l-CoaLNVooi."^^* Numb""' 

C_ReceptWe 

5Mes»ansln««'te- 





Two types of electric range prospect cards used by the Texas Power 
& Light Co., Dallas. The size of these cards is 5}/^" x SY^" inches. 



I^edger Folio. 



FI.EASE BEAD THIS AaSEESIENT CABEFTri.X.Y 

Deposits Rowte No. 



(This Space to be filled at the office) 

Application for Electric Cooking and Heating Service 

I hereby request the Twin State Gas and Electric Company to install electric cooking 

and heating service in the premises No (Street) 

(City), owned by 

and occupied by as a 

^nntLfifff »!?^V^ ^^" promptly and regularly pay all bills for electricity used under this 
a?nount to hP rfpt^.'il^^^YH ''ir^%^ published rates for the class of service furnished, the 
f^rfi^oi determined by the Company's meter or meters, to which and to the wires and 

appliances connected therewith upon the said premises free access for the Company's agents 
shall be had at all reasonable hours. 

Bn^ Ltl^,?.,^!"" %® ^Z ^t' V® ^^ ^'^^ published rules and regulations of the Company, and that if 
%cL^^^^7 \ ^^a.'' be as much as fifteen days in arrears in payment of any bill due the 
Conipany for electricity, labor, material or appliances, or shall violate any of the terms or 
conditions of this contract, the Company may remove its meters, wires and other appliances 
and appurtenances which may have been placed upon the said premises solely at the Com- 
pany s expense, without further notice, and because of such default or violation there shall 
immediately become due and payable by myself to the Company, as liquidated damages and 
not as a penalty, the minimum monthly payment provided for in the schedule of rates for the 
unexpired portion of the contract year in which the Company's property is removed. 

I agree to take electric service from the Company for a period of one year from the date 
of this 9,greement and thereafter until the end of thirty days notice in writing given bv one 
party to the other 



.'Signed at this. 



.day of. 



191. 



(Business address) 



Range Installation Application Card used by the Twin State Gas & Elec- 
tric Co., Brattleboro, Vt. The size of this card is 6" x 4". 



OFFICE AND WAREHOUSE FORMS 



121 



used in reporting to the sales 
manager in charge. This card 
shows the number of calls made 
during the week, names of 
prospects visited, and whether 
the salesman ''Got attention," 
**Got interested," ''Got chance 
to close" and "Secured order." 
It is recommended as an excellent 
method to determine progress in 
the sales work of the individual 
salesman and the general efficien- 
cy of the sales organization. 
Installation Application, The 
order to install and the appli- 
cation for service may be com- 
bined on the same card as shown 
on the Installation Application 
Card illustrated on page 120. If 
a trial installation proposition 
exists, the Trial Installation Ap- 
plication may be very simple in 
form and mimeographed on plain 
paper. At the end of thirty days 
or the termination of the trial, 

the purchaser may sign the permanent installation order as 
shown. This will save the printing of trial installation cards and 
the mimeographed, simple-looking sheet will not make the person 
signing it think they are signing any ironbound agreement. 
The card illustrated is used by the Twin State Gas 85 Electric 
Company of Brattleboro, Vt. 



APPROACHED 


I 


i 


1 

1 

5 


1 


1 

1 


1 W.^wAA^^r^Ay /U^/ 


\9'^f< 


_^ 


-i- 


9 
/ 




2. V/a/f9r/lr^^wy. 


3^W^«ry*«i 


. 


^ 











4 «7w /V\ era e 


,. 


/ 


/ 


e 


c 






/ 


e 








G ^ 3.2 c.-^ 


, 


f 


/ 


/ 


/ 


1 ^n Z.^Jcy 


„ 




/ 





p 


8 l.jer /^^cTTs 




f 


r 


/ 


c 


9 ^R.y^.-//ir 


,. 




/ 


/ 


J . 


10 


* 


— 


— 




— 


n 




9 


7 


y 


J 


12 




7 


/ 






13 












14 












15 








— 


— 


16 








17 












18 












19 












20 












Total 












Per Cent 













Salesman's "Score Card" used by 

the Northwestern Electric Service 

Co., Erie, Pa. The size of this card 

is about 7" x 3}/2". 



122 



MERCHANDISING METHODS 



Utah Power & Light Co. 



Utah Power & light Co. 



INSPECTION CARD 

Trpe _S«riallo._ 

Ko Sin Cil. 



/ "*"""•""" \ 

f r I i rf 
= i I- s * c 

I 

o 





Price, Inspection and Delivery Card used by 

the Utah Power & Light Co., Salt Lake City. 

Illustration shows both sides. Size of this 

card is 6W' x 5M". 



Price, Inspection and Delivery Card. This is a combination 
card with a three-fold purpose. It simplifies and unifies one of 
the important steps in recording a range sale and installation. 
It contains the price, a record of the inspection and the details 
of delivery. As soon as the range arrives in stock, the card is 
attached and the price information filled in. Inspection by the 
Service Department follows. 

When the range is sold and delivered at the purchaser's home, 
the inspection and delivery records (each side of the lower section 
of the card) are detached and returned to the Service Depart- 
ment where a record is made on the Range Record Card. 



OFFICE AND WAREHOUSE FORMS 



123 





UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. ELECTRIC RANGE RECORD 

oFFif-F nivic;roN 




D.SCONn'cCTCD ! NAME 


ADDRESS 










































CONDITI 


ONS 


EQUIPMENT HOTPLATES CAT. NO. OVENS 


CAT. NO. COOKERS CAT. NO. 


K.TCHEN.«OW 


SEC 


3NDHANO 
Al un 










«,.s- g^^ 






GA. .A> 


S£» . 














"" 




UNIT NUMBC. i FUSES 


CAT. NO. 


co„ 


"™"" 


INSPICTEO BY 


REPLACED 




















































































































































i 








' 


1 



Range Record Card used by the Utah Power & Light Co. Size of this 
card is 8" x 5". 



Range Record Card. The Range Record Card is the complete 
history of each particular range. This card record is started the 
day the range goes into stock and every repair, and the details 
of other kinds of service rendered are recorded on it. In order 
that it may be kept up to date, the Contract Department should 
be instructed to send to the Range Service Department details 
of all range activity such as: Installations, disconnections and 
names of successors. In this way, the Record Card is sure to 
have all the ranges on the lines correctly recorded. 

Range Trouble Order. This order is practically the same as a 
regular Emergency Trouble Order with a single exception. It is 
the graphic record of the trouble. Note the two rectangles in 



124 



MERCHANDISING METHODS 



Utah Power & Light Co. 

RANGE TROUBLE 



TROUBLE REPORTED 



TROUBLE MAN'S REPORT 



NOTE: MxL pU ol Ru:; 



TROUBLE FOUND 



ACTION TAKEN 



Range Trouble Order used 
by the Utah Power & Light 
Co. This sheet is prepared 
in duplicate. Size S" x 4". 



the illustration. The left one repre- 
sents the cooking surface of the range, 
the right one the oven. When making 
repairs, the service man draws in the 
units (with circles) and marks a cross 
in the one repaired. This trouble order 
follows the same routine as the regular 
trouble order. 

Any central station desiring to use 
the design and contents of the office 
and warehouse forms shown on these 
pages may do so without asking 
the consent of the Society or the 
central station. Before fully deciding 
on the style and contents of new forms, 
it is a good plan to write for the 
catalogs of a number of card filing 
companies from which many excel- 
lent ideas may often be gleaned. 
Such companies also advise and as- 
sist prospective customers in such 
problems. 



Contractor -Dealers' Position 

Place in Industry. The contractor-dealer has a well- 
defined place in the Electrical Industry. He is just as important 
in his position as the central station, jobber or manufacturer. He 
belongs to the industry. He is entitled to live. He specializes 
in wiring — and in the retail selling of electrical goods at a profit! 
When a central station is selling appliances they are competing 
with the contractor-dealer. Buthe does not compete with them. He 



CONTRACTOR-DEALERS' POSITION 125 

does not sell current. And every transaction he makes shows on 
the profit side of the central station ledger. So he must be 
protected in the sale of ranges as he is protected in the sale of 
irons and other household devices. 

Situation Today. Up to the present time the contractor- 
dealers have not sold electric ranges because the central stations 
were obliged to assume the responsibility of getting ranges on 
their lines and giving them adequate service. The great majority 
of contractor-dealers were unable to invest money in a stock of 
ranges and the necessary merchandising effort; and also unable 
to finance time payments. Moreover they did not have the facil- 
ities to install ranges on trial. And so practically all of the range 
merchandising accomplished up to the present time has been 
done by the central station. 

Another factor which has prevented the contractor-dealer from 
entering the range business and that has often stopped a well 
intended effort, is the central station selling ranges below manu- 
facturers' list prices. Of course the contractor-dealer could not 
compete as his profit comes entirely from selling above cost. Thus 
he has been left out of the range business almost entirely except 
for range wiring which some central stations gave him to maintain 
his good-will. 

Merchandising Tomorrow. Owing to the care which was neces- 
sary in introducing, selling and serving the electric range up to the 
present time, the central station has been justified in handling 
it almost exclusively but they have not been justified in selling 
it below manufacturer's list prices. See Price and Selling Policies, 
page 73. 

But the day is rapidly approaching when the contractor-dealer 
will be able to finance a range stock, sell ranges with little effort 
and for cash and not largely on a trial basis. 



126 MERCHANDISING METHODS 

After the central station has introduced electric cookery, it 
will some day no doubt turn over all the range business to the 
contractor-dealer and devote itself exclusively to the generation 
and distribution of electricity. After ranges are introduced and 
a number of housewives of the town can testify as to the prac- 
ticability of the range, trial installations can be discontinued. 
Trial purchases of automobiles, victrolas and similar articles are 
no longer made because everyone knows what they will do. It 
will be the same with an electric range. 

The contractor-dealer cannot put on elaborate campaigns but 
he can build his business around the activity begun by the central 
station. He can gradually increase his sales people, add a demon- 
strator and begin a small amount of advertising within a short 
time after his central station has introduced electric cookery. 

The central station should not establish a cut-price policy that 
will prevent the contractor-dealer, hardware and department 
stores from going into the range business. It is unfair. Every 
man and every business has moral and ethical responsibilities of 
which they must be continuously cognizant. But aside from this 
is that one very important business consideration: Encourage- 
ment by the central station of the contractor-dealer's range busi- 
ness as a direct feeder to central station revenue. 
Mutual Dependence, There is without question a mutual de- 
pendence between the central station and the contractor-dealer, 
and this should make easily possible an agreeable arrangement 
for the co-ordinated handling of the range business. To a 
given measure each is dependent upon the other; for where 
the contractor-dealer represents any considerable factor in the 
local electrical business the central station cannot enjoy its 
best return from the range business without the contractor- 
dealer's support. 



CONTRACTOR-DEALERS' POSITION 127 

As mentioned before, the contractor-dealer cannot always begin 
by putting on an elaborate campaign; and it follows that his 
maintenance of anything like a complete parts, and repair de- 
partment is impossible in the beginning. Not only in such an 
instance as this but in every one, there should be a hearty, 
friendly co-operation between the central station and contractor- 
dealer. 

As the contractor-dealer increases his range business and be- 
comes large and strong enough in it to maintain his own efficient 
service department, he still can and should co-operate with the 
central station, for the increase in the contractor-dealer's range 
business will not lessen mutual interests but never approach that 
point where the two will conflict. 

The best policy for the central station to establish today is to 
sell all ranges at manufacturer's list prices plus a fair profit on 
the wiring. If the contractor-dealer does not go into range mer- 
chandising at least get him to install a display and give him 
a percentage for the name of a prospect who ultimately buys and 
a better one for the actual sale of a range. 

This policy permits the contractor-dealer, hardware and de- 
partment stores to go into range merchandising, or to at least 
make a profit on a range display. All three classes of dealers will 
no doubt play a prominent part in the future development of the 
electric range and it is thought by authorities in the industry 
that eventually the central station will gradually work out of 
appliance merchandising and turn over this business to the con- 
tractor-dealer. One-third of the communities in this country 
today are served by central stations which are not doing a mer- 
chandising business so it seems obvious that the contractor- 
dealer is likely to handle the range business of tomorrow. 



CHAPTER VII 

SELLING POINTS 

Selling the Electric Cooking Idea 

The Prospect, Nearly all range sales are made to women. So 
this article is directed toward them but it will apply largely 
when the man is a factor in the sale. Women are curious, in- 
nately skeptical, susceptible to bargains and attracted by ''free" 
offers. A prospect is interested in how the electric range fits 
into her life — how it is going to help her. She does not want pri- 
marily to know how it is made— nor how it works. This infor- 
mation comes later. 

A woman has usually formed but one idea when she first 
inquires about the range: That electric heat is costly. Do not 
give her an opportunity to ask this question. Begin immediately 
to ask her questions. This will tend to make her forget to say, 
''Isn't it expensive to operate?" Keep on asking her questions. 
Get the information about her first. Get the "lay" of her mind. 
Something attracted her to the range. Something appealed to 
her and this "something" will be the route to her appreciation 
and signature on the contract. 

The salesman must locate her "sales target." He must know 
where to aim his talk because women buy ranges for different 
reasons and a point which will readily sell one woman will have 
no effect whatsoever on another. 

Be discreet when arousing curiosity or playing on vanity. A 
little sometimes works well; too much often kills the sale. Don't 

128 



SELLING THE ELECTRIC COOKING IDEA 129 

make statements which cannot be proven. Women have good 
memories and delight in referring to mis-statements. Amis-repre- 
sentation or untruth destroys their confidence in the salesman. 
And where confidence has been shaken the chances of a sale are 
materially lessened! 

The Idea and not the Range. Electric ranges are sold — not 
bought! A purchase is never made until the prospect knows 
just where, when and how the device is going to fit into her life. 
Women do not know about electric ranges. Therefore electric 
ranges are never bought literally. 

Also the prospect does not buy because the salesman wants 
her to but because she wants to buy it. The salesman's job is 
not to get her to buy — but to get her to want the range because 
the decision to purchase is her province, not the salesman's. The 
salesman does not sell the prospect but helps her sell herself. 
Therefore he must get her viewpoint. Look at the range from 
her angle. This puts the salesman on her side and establishes a 
more favorable relationship. 

A salesman should sell the idea of Electric Cookery — not the 
range; perfect cooking service — not the price; what the range 
does — not what it is; what it will do for her — not what it did 
or does for others. A woman is always more interested in the 
service than in the price of an article. Service is always with her. 
Price is incidental. 

So the range salesman must "paint" in words a picture for his 
prospect. Make her see her new kitchen modernly and efficiently 
equipped with an electric range. Make her imagine herself 
cooking in this newer, cleaner, more saving and savory way — 
this is selling the idea! 
Scientific Methods — 

Cooking more delicious, digestible and nourishing food with 
assured, uniform results and a minimum of time and work. 



130 SELLING POINTS 



Joy of electric cookery — 

Freedom from excessive heat, fumes, sooty utensils, handling 

of fuel; wearisome drawn-out methods. 
Conoenience 

Obtaining any desired heat at the touch of the switch — 

instantly. 
Cleanliness — 

No smoke, no soot, no discolored walls and woodwork. 
Saving in worJ^ — 

Elimination of fuel handling, pot scouring. 
Saving in food — 

Much less shrinkage in meats; utilizing cheaper cuts, making 

them tender and delicious. Making palatable the coarser 

foods. 
Fresh pure air — 

No hot gaseous fumes to devitalize; less odors from cooking. 
Safety — 

No danger of fire, explosion or asphyxiation. 
Continuity of service — 

Not affected by coal shortage or transportation. 
Standardized cost — 

No fluctuation in price of current as there is in wood, coal, 

coke or fuel oil. 
No fuel storage space required. 
Reputation for being modern. 
Easy payment plan. 

The following points are not to be featured or dwelt upon. 
They are bound to come up — and they must — but they are not 
the subjects to be brought up by the salesman nor such as he 
should admit for any prolonged discussion or argument. They 
are incidental. Do not feature — 

The range itself Nickel trimmings 

Price of the range Free installation 

Cooking rate "Twenty dollars cheaper this week" 

Cost of operation White enamel splashers 

Strong construction The guarantee 



SELLING THE ELECTRIC COOKING IDEA 131 

Every successful action or undertaking has a direct, definite 
goal. The battleship gunner knows his target. The architect 
knows every nook in his future building. The successful range 
salesman chooses a straight course in his sales talk — the route of 
which is the prospect's most responsive spot, and the goal is the 
prospect's desire to buy. 

A number of miscellaneous advantages must not be shot at 
the customer. They will be scattering and as futile as rammed 
birdshot. Diplomatic questions often uncover her personal in- 
terests. Determine a sales argument logical to her — and make 
it the one big point of the conversation. Generally one certain 
hit wins the ball game. Generally one certain point followed in 
the right way makes the sale. 

If a woman is doing her own work and dislikes building fires, 
dumping ashes and scouring sooty pots, the safety of the range 
will make no impression whatsoever on her. But she buys when 
shown that all this drudgery is eliminated. If a woman has a little 
boy whose chief delight is playing with matches and fire, the 
safety of the range will appeal to her rather than scientific 
cookery. 

Learn to say $150 or $250 without hesitancy or meekness. 
Continuously think this is a low price. Electric ranges sell for 
more than fuel ranges but the price is fully justified. No fuel 
range at any price — as a gift — can furnish the service rendered 
by the electric range! If a salesman cannot establish the legiti- 
macy of the price within himself, he will have a difficult job 
convincing anyone else of its justification. 

Help the customer select the right model. Pick the one she 
needs rather than the one she wants — if it is possible. Learn 
the size of her kitchen, the number of the family and the char- 
acter of her cooking. Smaller ranges usually do the work, save 



WHY WOMEN 

PRICE MAINTENANCE 

Does a cut in the price of a nationally adver- 
tised price lower your opinion of the product? 
(4.5 % undecided) 


Bl 

Yes 

34.0 

47.8 
59.7 

76.2 

62.5 

74.2 
96.5 
23.8 

59.5 


JY 

No 
61.5 

52.2 
33.9 

23.9 
31.5 

25.8 
3.5 

40.5 


Percentage 
in favor of 

57.0 
13.4 
12.7 

6.7 

4.2 

3.0 

1.8 

1.2 

51.1 
26.1 

15.9 

8.1 

54.1 

10.8 

8.1 

13.5 


SALES METHODS 

Favor magazine and newspaper advertisements 
Favor samples 




Favor show windows 


Favor personal calls 




Favor demonstrations 




QUALITY AND PRICE 


Consider price first 

Consider both (6.9 % did not give definite an- 
swers) 

MAIL ORDER HOUSES 

Have purchased from mail order houses 

Believe quantity purchases lead to extrava- 
gance (6.4 % did not give definite answers) . . . 

CASH OR CREDIT 

Would pay cash if prices were reduced 2 % 

Do merchants give more attention to charge 
customers than to cash customers? (6.3% 
reported "no difference") 

FREE DELIVERIES 

Would pay cash and carry home heavy pur- 
chases if prices were reduced 10 % 

Would order goods according to a definite 
delivery schedule 


Showed a knowledge of the cost of free deliv- 
eries ... 


SERVICE 

Impressed most by courtesies involving credit . 
Impressed most by courtesies involving clerks . 
Impressed most by courtesies involving privi- 


Impressed most by courtesies involving the 
privilege of an unhampered examination of 

goods 

Impressed most by courtesies involving a 
prompt refund of the purchase price of returned 

purchases 

Could the service now usually offered be re- 
stricted? 



132 



SELLING THE ELECTRIC COOKING IDEA 133 



WHY WOMEN 

DISTRIBUTIVE COSTS 
Showed a passable knowledge of the cost of 
running a department store 


Bl 

Yes 
53.5 

26.9 
92.1 
62.6 


JY 

No 
37.4 


Percentage 
In faoor of 


Showed a passable knowledge of the price at 
which the manufacturer sells a cake of soap of 
a brand advertised nationally 


Desired to know more about where goods come 

from and how they are made 

Expressed a desire to see a reduction in the 
number of styles of shoes marketed 





This analysis of why women buy was compiled from questionnaires sent 

to the presidents of 94 wonten's clubs. Reproduced from "Making Your 

Store Work for You," published by A. W. ShaW Company 



Space and use less current. A smaller number of surface units 
can be used a little longer time which will eliminate heating one 
or two other surface units to their maximum heat. It is better 
to cook two foods one after the other on one surface unit than 
to heat two surface units to their maximum heat. Bringing the 
second one up to full cooking heat takes considerably more cur- 
rent than keeping one going at a desired temperature. 

Avoid technicalities. During the sale never voluntarily men- 
tion kilowatt hours, how the rate is figured, or any other thing 
which would not be understood. Don't confuse her thoughts 
and help her imagine the range is something very difficult to 
operate. Impress upon her that the electric range is the simplest, 
safest cooking device. There is nothing complicated nor myster- 
ious about it. It is just as simple as the electric light — ^just a 
matter of turning the switch. 

Never force a sale. Never use too much effort. It gives the 
impression that the range is difficult to sell. Make each customer 



134 SELLING POINTS 



want the range before a contract is signed. To bore her with too 
much persistence — to make her sign a contract to get rid of the 
salesman is not selling the range. It is selling her relief from an 
undiplomatic salesperson. 

Feature a few big advantages. Touch only on the numerous 
minor ones. Too many claims are confusing. Simplicity rules in 
every sale. Don't try to make the prospect think the range is 
without a fault of any kind. She will be suspicious of an effort 
to hide something she is bound to find out. Analyze it as a judge 
or friend helping her to decide. This makes praise doubly effec- 
tive and claims more impressive. Don't criticise other cooking 
devices. It is unbusinesslike and lowers the salesman in the 
prospect's estimation and confidence. There are enough selling 
points without attacking competition or a competitor. Confine 
the talk to affirmative, positive statements — about the electric 
range. Avoid negative talk of all kinds. 

Price not Important. A woman does not buy an article because 
it is cheap! She buys it because she wants its service. If she 
has no precedent to follow in estimating its value, it might be 
worth five to ten times as much as she is paying for all she 



•THE KODAK people do not sell a leather box with a 
* lens; they sell the idea of easy picture making. 
The automobile people do not sell an engine, a 
chassis and four wheels; they sell the idea of quick, 
luxurious transportation. The real estate man does 
not sell a quantity of brick, mortar, joists and 
shingles; he sells the idea of a home. This is sales- 
manship! 



SELLING THE ELECTRIC COOKING IDEA 135 

knows about it. When she learns about the service it can 
render and comes into full appreciation of all the increased 
comforts and conveniences, the price of a range does not enter 
into the sale. She is educated to it, wants it. 

If price was a factor in sales today people would not be buying 
thousands of: 

Electric cleaners at $50 when brooms can be purchased for $1. 
Electric toasters at $8 when excellent fuel toasters only cost 50 c. 
Kitchen cabinets at $60 when kitchen tables sell for $3 and $4. 
Electric irons at $8 when fuel-heated irons sell for 50c. 
Automobiles ranging from $500 to $15,000 when a horse and 

buggy costs $200 to $300. 
Electric fans at $15 to $40 when palm leaf fans cost 10c. 
Typewriters at $100 when pen and ink can be bought for 10c. 

These and thousands of other articles on the market today sell 
for many hundred times the cost of their predecessors because of 
the service they render. Therefore in a sale, the Service — not the 
device — is sold. So $150 is a high price for a range body, four 
legs, four surface units and an oven. But $150 is a low price for 
Electric Cookery. Therefore sell E/edric Cookery — not ranges! 



Better Cooked Food 

Salesman's Knowledge, A salesman must know where his 
product is different from competitive articles. It is his chief 
selling point. As the principal feature of the electric range is its 
superior cooking, the salesman must know the fundamentals of 
cookery; why heat is applied to food; methods of cookery; the 
many differences between fuel and electrical processes. He must 
know how to cook some of the simple, popular foods. He must 



136 SELLING POINTS 



know the characteristics of electric heat. See article on Electric 
Heat, page 51. This knowledge will not only give him confi- 
dence in the range but will complete his sales talk by teaching 
him "cooking language.'* 

Science Supersedes Guessing. Yesterday, cookery depended 
on good guesswork, favorable conditions and the continuous 
basting, shifting and stirring of the food because the flame was 
subject to fluctuation and the oven occasionally developed **hot 
spots." Ofttimes cakes **fell;" roasted meats were over- or under- 
done and greatly shrunken; bread was raised unevenly and with 
questionable results in the texture and color. 

But today the electric range gives the housewife scientific 
exactness — in the utilization of the heat and the cooking of the 
food. Perfect cookery demands electric heat because of its 
flameless, odorless generation, uniform intensity, even distri- 
bution and instant perfect regulation. 

Cooking authorities have recognized the infinite possibilities of 
the electric cooking chamber. The prediction is offered that the 
future cooking device — both domestic and commercial — will be 
an electric oven having different sized compartments because 
of the: 

Heat uniformly distributed on all sides instead of at bottom only 

Thorough cooking because of the concentrated heat 

Non-circulation of air which minimizes evaporation 

Absence of gaseous fumes 

Adaptability for steaming processes 

Great saving in heat 

Assurance of results through control 

Removal of all possibility of burning or over- or under-cooking. 

Methods of Cookery. The usual processes of cookery are: 
Roasting, baking, broiling, boiling, steaming, stewing and frying. 



BETTER COOKED FOOD 137 

There are other methods which are merely variations or combi- 
nations of these, a knowledge of which is useful but not entirely 
necessary to a salesman. 

Roasting, baking and broiling are dry-heat processes. Boiling, 
steaming, stewing and frying are wet-heat processes. And the 
temperatures necessary in these seven processes increase in this 
order: Simmering, stewing, steaming, boiling, baking, frying, 
roasting and broiling. 

Roasting and baking are done by dry, radiated heat. Broiling 
is done by a more intense and glowing radiated heat. Boiling 
is cooking by submerging the food or substance in water at an 
initial temperature of 212 degrees F. 

Steaming is cooking through a medium of steam arising from 
boiling water. Stewing is a modified boiling process, less water 
being used. The object is to extract (not to retain) the juices 
of meat, vegetables and fruit. By this method are produced the 
gravies of meats and vegetables, the juices of fruits. A stew is 
usually started with cold water, the temperature being gradually 
raised to about 185 degrees F. and maintained at that point. 

In all these methods with the exception of steaming and stew- 
ing, the foods are subjected to a high temperature in the begin- 
ning to "seal" the surface or form a crust thus retaining the 
flavors, necessary moisture and nourishing values. These 
methods are described in detail in the following paragraphs 
on foods. 

Breads and Pastries, In electric cookery, the mixing of breads 
and pastries requires less milk or water as less evaporation takes 
place in the electric oven than in the fuel oven. This is due to 
the non-circulation of air and the resultant uninterrupted action 



138 SELLING POINTS 



of the heat upon the dough. Breads and pastries develop a 
finer, softer texture because the loaf is more uniformly raised 
and thoroughly and uniformly baked. Their crusts are thinner 
and more evenly browned and of a finer, softer texture. 

In the use of the two commonly known agents for raising bread- 
stuffs, yeast and baking powder, a gas is liberated within the 
mass of dough which expands and reaches every portion, some 
of it escaping to the outside air. But a great deal of this gas, 
enough to accomplish its purpose, is retained within the dough 
and forms myriads of little bubbles each of which makes a 
minute cell. As the cells are formed the heat gradually removes 
the moisture from the dough, stiffens the texture immediately 
surrounding the little gas bubbles and the finished mass reaches 
a definite, permanent form in the shape of the finished loaf or 
other bread-stuff. It can be very reasonably seen that there 
should be a certain amount of unity in action between the rising 
and baking process. As the rising takes place before the stiffen- 
ing of the dough around the minute gas cells, the gas is liable 
to escape from the still, limpid dough. If this happens the gas 
cells will be broken and collapsed and the dough will again take 
on its original form of a dense mass. If, on the other hand, the 
leavening gas has not had a chance to rise throughout the dough, 
the loaf will not reach that point of * 'lightness" but will bake to 
a sodden heavy mass, the body being hard and solid with few 
or none of those little cells. 

Where the proper relation between rising and cooking is sus- 
tained, the little gas cells will be smaller, more numerous, more 
evenly formed and uniformly distributed. 

Generally for one-pound loaves of bread, the correct temper- 
ature for placing the dough in the oven is 400 to 500 degrees F. 



BETTER COOKED FOOD 139 

This temperature is attained by turning on both the upper and 
lower units. It is then maintained by turning the upper unit 
off and the lower one to medium or low heat. The more satis- 
factory method of determining these temperatures is to use a 
Fahrenheit thermometer. Any reliable recipe book may be 
used in cooking in the electric oven. Biscuits and rolls may be 
baked at a higher temperature because they are smaller and the 
process is quicker. 

Vegetables. Vegetables are watery foods. By the old-fashioned 
method of cookery, they are usually boiled in an indefinite amount 
of water. This method applied the heat through the water — 
and a large part of the flavor, color and nutriment were boiled 
out of the vegetable and into the liquid and then drained off 
and thrown away. This process is one which had to be watched 
and gauged with accuracy to give the most satisfactory results. 
Failure or success was more largely dependent upon "accident," 
and the result was quite often over- or under-done dishes. With 
some certain vegetables the result was apt to be tough, stringy 
or otherwise unpalatable. 

But in the oven of the electric range or the electric cooker it is 
possible to steam vegetables with a very small amount of water. 
The kettle is enclosed in a comparative air-tight compartment 
and the steam is generated, conserved and superheated and acts 
as a much better medium for heat distribution and application. 
The material food values and full flavor are therefore retained 
in the vegetables as they cannot be absorbed by the steam. A 
longer time must be allowed than for boiling and the process is 
started in either cold or hot water. Another name for this 
method is "Conservative Cookery." 

The following table shows the advantages in steaming 



.140 SELLING POINTS 



vegetables electrically. It compares the losses which occur in 
boiling and steaming of the edible portions. Published through 
the courtesy of the Home Economics Journal. 

Solids Ash 

Spinach, boiled 31.59% lost 51.65% lost 

" steamed 0.18% " 9.34%o " 

Difference. 31.41% 42.31% 

Cabbage, boiled 32.86%o " 42.62% " 

steamed. 2.54% " 11.47% " 

Difference 30.32% 31.15% 

Carrots, cut up and boiled 10.05%, " 11-48% " 

boiled whole _ 6.28% " 7.38% " 

Difference 3.77%, 4.10%, 

Carrots steamed 6% sugar lost 

" boiled whole 17% sugar lost 
" boiled cut up 26% sugar lost 

Meats. Meat is roasted, broiled, fried, stewed or boiled. In 
roasting, broiling, frying and generally in boiling, it is immed- 
iately subjected to a high temperature, forming a crust which 
retains much of the food values. 

Usually boiling is done for the use of the meat only. But 
stewing is done for the use of both the meat and the liquid part 
of the stew. In boiling, the whole piece of meat is submerged in 
boiling water and the surface coagulated. In stewing, the meat 
is cut into small pieces to get large surface area and the process 
started in cold water to dissolve the protein and extract the fla- 
vors. The heat is gradually increased until it reaches about 180 
degrees F. at which temperature the cooking is continued. By 
this process the broth will be rich and nourishing — ^but the meat, 
while tender, lacks in a great measure its nutriment and flavor. 

There are two kinds of protein — each requiring a different heat 
treatment. The protein in the muscle dissolves in cold water and 
hardens under high temperature. The protein of the connective 



BETTER COOKED FOOD 141 

tissue which holds the muscle fibres together, shrivels and be- 
comes tough under dry heat, softens under slow heat and dis- 
solves under continuous boiling. 

In the electrical roasting of meats, less shrinkage takes place 
because there is very little evaporation. To understand this 
appreciable saving, one must know the effect of the heat on the 
various chemical constituents of protein, starch and fat. 

An analysis of beef shows that lean beef contains 75% water, 
medium fat beef about 72% water, very fat beef 53% water. As 
there is a greater loss in weight when cooking very fat meat than 
lean meat it is obvious that water is not the only loss. 

It is best to place the meat in the oven when it has reached a 
temperature of from 250 to 300 degrees F. Within a short 
time the temperature should be reduced to about 200 degrees 
and the meat left for the roasting period which depends on 
the weight of the piece and the results desired. Authorities 
say that eighteen to twenty minutes per pound will produce the 
best cooked piece of meat. 

When a roast goes into the hot oven, the surface is coagulated 
and acts as a protective shell against loss of juices and aroma. 
Thus the roast loses only 10% to 12% of its weight, virtually all 
the nutritive value is retained and the flavor and digestibility 
are much better than if the meat has been subjected to fuel 
flame and a constant circulation of cool air. 

The muscle fibres of meat consist of bundles of microscopic 
tubes of an albumenoid substance held together by the connec- 
tive tissues and fat cells. Tubes of the muscle fibres contain 
water holding in solution many different substances necessary 
to the nourishment of a healthy body, such as valuable salts of 
potash and phosphoric acid. The connective tissue is converted 
into gelatin. 



142 SELLING POINTS 



In the presence of water this tissue absorbs five times its weight, 
dissolves when heated, and sets in viscid jelly when cooled. This 
property is however quickly destroyed when heated to 284 
degrees F. 

For cooking the muscle fibres, a temperature of only 170 de- 
grees F. is necessary to coagulate and loosen the fibres. For 
cooking the connective tissues a temperature of about 200 de- 
grees F. will yield gelatin. The cooking of the connective tissues 
is greatly aided by the presence of water in the meat and is 
thereby made far more digestible. The fat has been made more 
brittle and nourishing by the extraction of part of the water. 
The retention of a part of the mineral matter is valuable in 
building up muscle tissue. And the improved flavor comes from 
the concentration of the salts and extractives. 

As 75% of most meat consists of water, the cook is not only 
wasting fuel but causing a rapid evaporation when the temper- 
ature is over 212 degrees F. The surface dries out and allows 
the inner juices to ooze out carrying with them the valuable 

juices and mineral salts. 

OOD HOUSEKEEPING Institute 
heartily endorses electric cookery. 
Electricity produces a clean heat; it 
is convenient to use — in truth a perfect ser- 
vant responding instantly to regulation; 
and finally, the cooking results to be ob- 



G 



tained from it are excellent in a uniformity 
of texture and the development of flavor.** 
— Good Housekeeping Institute. 



Advantages of Electric Range 

Scientific Cookery. The electric range is the one scientific 
cooking device. Perfect cookery and identical results are ob- 
tained every day in the year through its ideal generation and 
distribution of heat. The electric process improves every method, 
and furthers every principle of the modern domestic scientists 
and dietitians and produces more delicious, digestible, nourish- 
ing food than is turned out by any other cooking device. See 
Better Cookery^ page 135. 

Simplest Operation. No other cooking device is as simple in 
operation or as easy to handle. Any desired heat can be quickly 
obtained by a turn of the switch. There is no fuel to order, store 
nor worry about; no coal nor wood to carry; no matches to 
scratch; no fire to build nor watch; no flue to operate and no 
ashes to dump. It does away with the coal bin, chimney and 
ash pan. 

Perfect Control. Each surface and oven unit is controlled by a 
switch which gives three degrees of heat — Full, Medium and 
Low. Medium heat is just one-half as hot as Full heat. And 
Low heat is just one-quarter as hot as Full heat. These different 
degrees are absolute; they never vary or fluctuate. Therefore 
the range is absolutely dependable and does not require close 
watching when the cooking is being done. Supervision has been 
superseded by timing. There is no worry about room tempera- 
ture, gas pressure, heating quality of coal, condition of the flue, 
velocity of the wind, humidity and other by-gone cooking 
factors. 

Heat Conservation. The electric oven is designed with a thick 
insulation which retains the heat long after the current has been 
switched off. Therefore the cooking is done principally on the 
* 143 



144 SELLING POINTS 



conserved heat which can be maintained by having one of the 
units turned Low. 

Tests have proven that the electric range is 85 percent efficient, 
the gas range 20 percent efficient and the coal range only 2 percent 
efficient. In other words 85 percent of the electric heat, 20 percent 
of the gas heat and 2 percent of the coal heat is generally utilized. 

Appreciated Coolness, The electric range oven radiates less 
heat than any other stove owing to the insulation. The electric 
range is strictly a cooking device and not a kitchen heating appli- 
ance like the coal and gas range. It is especially appreciated in the 
Summer when preparing a meal over a fuel range is almost un- 
bearable. After cooking electrically the housewife is fresher, the 
kitchen more cool and comfortable and the ice in the refrig- 
erator unaffected. 

Utmost Cleanliness. As electric heat is developed from wires — 
open or enclosed — there is no flame, no combustion, therefore 
no smoke, fumes, sooty pots, discolored walls nor vitiated air. 
All the hot, dirty work of building, lighting and watching the 
fire and the cleaning up of waste material is done many miles 
away in the central station power house. 

Absolute Safety, Operating without matches or flame, the elec- 
tric range eliminates all possibilities of fire, explosion and as- 
phyxiation. Moreover there is no danger of flying sparks, no 
danger of electric shocks. Children may play with the range 
and liquids may boil over without accident. 

Economic Factors. The electric range is a direct factor in a 
great saving of food, time, worry, kitchen space. It reduces the 
drudgery and supervision of the kitchen easily by half. 

Using Appliances on Range Socket. A number of central 
stations permit their cooking customers to use appliances on the 



ADVANTAGES OF ELECTRIC RANGE 145 

cooking rate — permitting them to be attached to appliance re- 
ceptacle which is installed on standard makes of electric ranges 
today. 

This makes an excellent talking point in selling a range and 
the loss in revenue is comparatively small as there are only two 
or three appliances which can be used in the kitchen: The elec- 
tric iron and electric washer. The chafing dish, toaster and grill 
are generally used on a dining room table and of course the cord 
will not reach to the kitchen. The electric cleaner is not used in 
the kitchen, so this current will never be taken from a range 
socket. The central station will therefore find that very little 
current is used from an appliance receptacle on a range and that 
in permitting a woman to use an appliance or two on current 
through a range meter will more than pay for itself by securing 
her good-will. 

Overcoming Obstacles 

Price, Selling electric cookery is not done automatically — nor is 
it a lazy man's job. There are many points of resistance which 
must be overcome. The most serious is perhaps the price which 
is overcome by thoroughly selling the idea of electric cooking 
service and introducing a time payment plan. Nearly every 
"high-priced" article today is sold on the installment plan irre- 
spective of the financial condition of the purchaser. See Time 
Payments, page 75. 

Operating Cost, The operating cost is not a serious considera- 
tion when the user has been educated to the economical use of the 
range and a full appreciation of the possibilities of heat conser- 
vation. 

But it is unjust to make a doUar-and-cents comparison be- 
tween an electric and a fuel cooking bill. There are many items 
covered and provided for in an electric bill which are not in a fuel 



146 SELLING POINTS 



bill. Place a rightly-merited definite value on the many advan- 
tages derived from cooking electrically and it will many times 
more than compensate for the cost of the current. 
** Slower** Operation. In electrical cookery many of the pro- 
cesses are "slower" than the other (older methods). In approach- 
ing this phase of selling, the salesman should get the right angle — 
that this is an advantage — not a disadvantage. 

His work is not that of introducing a new kind of "cook stove" 
to which the housewife must become accustomed and change 
her "good" methods of food preparation. The correct interpre- 
tation (presentation) is just the opposite. And it has been 
demonstrated in domestic science — by good cooks the world 
over — that of the very many cooking processes, the majority 
produce better results when performed in the "slow way;" that 
the rapid preparation of food is (generally speaking) detrimental 
to the best results.. 

The progress of the culinary art has only been possible through 
the advancement of superior methods for controlling and dis- 
tributing heat, the majority of these being directed along the 
research lines of even distribution and temperature control. It 
was appreciated that the heat should thoroughly penetrate the 
food stuffs and produce uniform results throughout. The truth 
of this theory has been evident from the very beginning and it is 
only because of the limitations of the known methods of fuel- 
heat control that progress up to the point of electrical cookery 
was never before attained. 

Instead of the housewife looking at the situation as neces- 
sitating a change in her methods of preparation of food, she 
should appreciate the wonderful advantage in being able to pre- 
pare her foods in the right way and adapting the rest of her 
household duties to this more natural, easier order of things. 



OVERCOMING OBSTACLES 147 

And this advantage applies not alone to the kitchen — in the 
cooking; it shows its remarkable, beneficial influence in the 
whole process of housekeeping — home making. The electric 
range is an event — an innovation — of the newer, better order of 
things. 

Let the salesman begin at the beginning — the correct prepara- 
tion of foods. Let him lead her slowly, assuredly through the 
real fundamentals of correct cookery and she will arrive at — not 
the fuel range, or any of the other old-time methods but — the 
electric range! 

Heating Kitchen. Ofttimes where homes do not have adequate 
heating facilities and the warming of a kitchen and dining room 
is dependent upon the kitchen range, a woman will hesitate 
about the purchase of an electric range because it does not heat 
the kitchen. 

In the first place it is not the purpose of the range to heat the 
kitchen. Its purpose is to cook food without heating the kitchen. 
This idea should be thoroughly driven home. In the second 
place, this may often be easily overcome by selling the woman a 
garbage incinerator which can be installed beside the range. 
This device will supply sufficient warmth through the burning of 
garbage, paper and other waste material to adequately heat the 
kitchen and dining room. Sometimes of course a little coal is 
necessary but not sufficient to make any appreciable increase in 
the monthly cost of cooking food and heating the kitchen. 

Some salesmen sell auxiliary electric heaters, others oil heaters. 
But in every case they do not permit the problem to hinder the 
sale. The rapid increase in the sale of heating systems through- 
out the United States is helping to solve this problem. It will 
not be many years before virtually every home, urban and sub- 
urban, will have a central heating system. 



148 SELLING POINTS 

A distinct separation of the two ideas should be made: (1) 
The correct preparation of foods — electrical cookery; (2) heat- 
ing the kitchen. During the few months of the year when the 
heating of the kitchen is a matter to be considered, an auxiliary 
such as an additional radiator, an extra heating stove or 
electric heater, oil stove, gas radiator is a far better solution than 
to continue old-time cooking methods at such a loss and incon- 
venience simply to heat the kitchen. When a comparison is drawn 
strongly, face to face with the facts, the idea of abandoning the 
wonderful advantages of electric cookery simply to heat the 
kitchen during. the few months of November, December, January 
and February looks ridiculous and becomes entirely subservient 
to the many more important advantages gained through the use 
of the electric range. 

Water Heating. This sometimes is a resistance point when a 
prospect has been heating water in connection with the old coal 
or gas stove and a central station is not making a low rate for 
this class of service. In such a case the problem is solved by 
attaching the coils of the storage tank to the furnace (which of 
course is only possible in winter), or installing a small coal heater 
or a waste incinerator. Either of which will supply hot water of 
adequate quantity. 

Central stations however can establish a profitable, yet reason- 
able water heating rate and install electric heaters without appre- 
ciably increasing the individual connected load or demand. See 
Electric Water Heaters, page 185. 

Teaching Range Operation. Teaching Japanese, Chinese, 
Mexicans and negro servants to operate the electric range is a 
simple matter. The ease of operation, saving of labor, shorten- 
ing of methods, sureness of results, increased cleanliness of uten- 
sils and all other C 'selfish") advantages of electrical cookery are 



OVERCOMING OBSTACLES 149 

grasped in a surprisingly quick way. On the Pacific Coast a 
large number of Mongolian servants quickly learned the efficient 
operation of the electric range. In the southwest Mexican ser- 
vants have no trouble whatsoever in becoming good electric 
range cooks. In the Southeast and up to the Mason-Dixon Line 
a small army of colored servants delight in the operation of this 
new cooking device. 

Where the operator is illiterate and cannot even read the 
''High, Medium and Low" degrees of the switches, the manufac- 
turer or central station colors these indications and the servant 
quickly understands that red means High or green means Me- 
dium or black means Low — or some similar arrangement. 

If possible the better plan in promoting electric cookery in 
towns where foreign servants predominate is to get a native 
demonstrator. He or she will have more influence and create a 
better understanding than an American demonstrator. For ex- 
ample, the Charlottesville 85 Albermarle Railway Co., of Char- 
lottesville, Virginia, employes a colored teacher in a local 
school for negroes. 

She is in charge of the educational work with her people; 
teaches electric cooking in her classes and does demonstra- 
tion work after school. This company has also found that it is 
profitable to give a diploma to the colored servants after they 
have reached a certain degree of proficiency in electric cooking. 
This has made a tremendous hit and has created great rivalry 
among the colored cooks. 

When selling a range to a home with a foreign cook, a good 
plan is to install a **tell-tale" light both in the kitchen and living 
room, where the master or mistress may occasionally watch it to 
see if the servant is switching off the cUrrent when the range is 
not in use. 



THE 

TRUTH 

AND 

THE 

PROOF 



ABOUT ELECTRIC COOKING 



THE TRUTH AND THE PROOF 




A B OD 


T ElBOT 


SIC OOOKINO 


UA. Iron 

o»kin£,»« 


Ind U.™ perfectly .d>pUd lo 0» t.^; i> 

t excepUng gu. 

MRS. SIDNEY 8. HARRIS. 




Lo. Aopl-. Cl.lomJ""^ 
April 12. Hl« 



11 



El S«gua<!o, (Miionut, 



Cover and two pages from a range booklet published by the Southern 
California Edison Co. Page size 9" x 4". This book contains 26 letters of 
commendation about electric ranges from range owners throughout their 
territory; and it was illustrated with photographs of the installations. 



CHAPTER VIII 

ADVERTISING 

Purpose and Kinds 

Purpose. Advertising is the first step and the most inexpensive 
factor in the sale of an article. Advertising is as necessary to 
sales as rain to crops. It is just as broadcast in its effect, just as 
important in its value. 

Sales are made only after a customer has a complete knowledge 
of the article and the service that it renders. Therefore advertis- 

150 



PURPOSE AND KINDS 



151 



ing is a form of education. Advertisements in newspapers and 
magazines should contain electric cooking news items while the 
permanent publicity like billboards and street car cards should 
carry one short message, one concisely stated advantage, which 
will eventually make an impression and create a more-than- 
passing interest. 

Before a sale is made a certain evolution of thought must take 
place in the prpspect's mind. If no advertising whatever was 
done a salesman would have to make call after call on the pros- 
pect. But advertising will do this at one -hundredth the cost of 
a personal call. That is its purpose. 

Methods, There are numerous media which may be employed 
to advertise electric cookery, for example: 



Billboards 

Bills, monthly 

Booklets 

Carnivals 

Canvassers 

Charity Bazaars 

Church Socials 

Cooking Schools 

County Fairs 

Delivery Wagons, sides of 

Demonstrations 

Department Stores 

Domestic Science Classes 

"Electrical Home" Exhibits 

Electrical Shows 

Envelopes, backs of 

Envelope Inserts 

Folders 

Form Letters 

Hardware Stores 

Home Furnishing Shows 

Lantern Slides 



Letterheads 

Magazines 

Menus 

Motion Pictures 

Newspaper Ads 

Novelties 

Parades 

Poster Stamps 

Prize Essay Contests 

Programs 

Reading Notices 

Recipe Books 

Red Cross Rooms 

Restaurant Windows 

Scenario Contests 

Statements 

Salesroom Exhibits 

Street Car Cards 

Street Car Transfers 

Signs, electric 

Telephoning Prospects 

Window Displays 



152 ADVERTISING 



Campaign Advertising. A central station must feel its way 
before it begins to spend very much money. The initial campaign 
should of course be a smash but not such a costly display of 
advertising that will arouse temporary curiosity and later be fol- 
lowed by a harmful indifference through lack of money to con- 
tinue the sales effort. The beginning or start requires a little 
more steam just as the starting of a locomotive. But a certain 
amount of advertising "steam*' is necessary right through the year 
to k^ep the ranges moving. 

The first thing to do is to write the manufacturers and get 
their assistance in preparing a range campaign. Get samples of 
their advertising and dealer helps. A knowledge of all available 
literature proves valuable because most all of it will fit into the 
local activities. If the range manufacturers are putting on a 
national campaign, the central station should by all means tie 
in with it by displaying reproductions of the national magazines 
advertisements and by putting in special window displays and 
holding demonstrations. It is suggested that a coupon which 
may be returned for additional information be included in the 
newspaper and magazine advertisements especially during the 
first six months of the range activities because every effort must 
be made to secure the names of prospects: See Prospects and 
Follow-Up Work, page 105. 

Between campaigns, regular educational advertising should be 
carried on continuously but when a periodical campaign is staged 
every method of advertising should be employed. As women delight 
in buying exclusive articles and in being shown favors by special 
invitations, it is a good plan during a demonstration to hold 
special cooking ''lectures" for the more prominent women of the 
town. They should be invited by personally written letters and 
impressed with the fact that they are one of a chosen few. 



PURPOSE ANDIKINDS 



153 



.. _^_Ge^"Safe economical, 

^,gady in a Mitiuf ((^B JUST TURN 

I — . h^m. THE SWITCH 

OVER m] IN USE ^3) 30 DAYS 

<^mmi Iliiii)i'N0js jRpuc f ERv^icE Sonmm 




Changeable panel billboard of the Central Illinois 
Public Service Co. installed in the business section of 
Bushnell, III. The panel is changed every week and 
the number of range sales are always in public view. 
This idea is another method of maintaining interest 
in electric cookery. 

Continuous Advertising, Short lively campaigns sell a few 
ranges. But it takes continuous advertising to impress upon a 
townful of naturally conservative people that electric cookery 
is practicable and economical and has come to stay. Therefore 
sustained effort is the greatest factor in successful merchandising. 

The purpose of continuous effort is to make people think of 
electric cookery every day — until they have heard and read about 
it so much that it is just like an old friend. It is this day-in-and- 
day-out advertising that finally convinces and converts pur- 
chasers. 

Continuous advertising is done through permanent exhibits 
in the central station salesroom, in hardware and department 
stores, on billboards, through the many different kinds of signs 
and street car cards. These forms of advertising work continu- 
ously eighteen hours a day, 365 days of the year. 

A novel feature of a billboard erected by the Central Illinois 
Public Service Company in Bushnell, Illinois, was a movable 




I vK y[Qeee>"^ J 




ITRIC RANGE IN THE KITCHEN — EVERYBODY COOL, COMFY.AND HAPPY! 



Tes, It IS hot this morning. And it's funny, isn't it, how everything j , 
about the kitchen goes wrong on a hot day? The ooal scuttle seeing ^to—';;^"' 
be always empty -- the fire gets low when the bread and cake are ill ^ 
the oven — and even after the cooking is finished, there are all v^ 1 
those black pots and pans to scour! It's mighty discouraging. v '^ 



And sometimes it doesn't seem quite fair. Hubby is probably down at 
the office sitting under an electric fan, as cool as that proverbial 
cucumber, and yet they say HE is the one who WORKS, while all you do 
is "keep house". 

He "wouldn't knock if we couldn't boost." If we didn't have a sure 
solution for the summer-cooking problem, we wouldn't talk about it. 
Hundreds of women right here in Salt Lake have let ua solve that 
problem for them. They are using Electric Ranges. Now everything 
goes right in their kitchens. There are no spoiled bakings — ni 
more black pots and pans — no more hot days. 

The little booklet, "Brighter and Happier Hours in the Kitchen", 
which we enclose, tells the story. After you have read it, call 
at our store on the ground floor of the Kearns Building and SEE 
FOR YOURSELF how easy it is to operate an Kleotrio Range. It is .' 
economical too. It keeps down the cost of fuel and food-stuffs \ 
i almost as much as it keeps down the temperature of the kitchen. ( 

) > 

^ Hlvery day's delay means more long hot hours in the kitchen. Vbjy\ 
. wait 1^ There's an Electric Range for every kitchen — every purse 
/and you_pay^only a small sum down and the rest monthly. ^-^ 
''^Very truly yours, ,(^ 

_^\^., UTAH POBEB ^& XIGHT COUPANT /-^j^- 1 _}^--^ 





UTAH POBEB & LIGHT COUPANT/^ ■'■, 



R^pres entatl 




One of a series of sales letters used by the Utah Power & Light Co. in their 

range campaign. This particular letter is printed in blue, orange and 

black and is very attractive. 



PURPOSE AND KINDS 155 

panel upon which was painted each week the number of ranges 
which the central station had installed, up to that date. 

Very few if any range manufacturers furnish central stations 
and dealers with lithographed bill posters owing to their ex- 
tremely high cost. But the central station or dealer can have 
some local billboard company paint several boards in advan- 
tageous spots around the town at a small maintenance cost per 
month. All available signs should be used : Electric signs on the 
roof, muslin signs on delivery wagons and other poster spaces. 
Direct- by -mail Literature. Direct-by-mail literature includes 
post cards, booklets, folders, envelope inserts and sales letters. 
A special list of live prospects should be compiled to which these 
different pieces of advertising are mailed periodically. It is such 
persistent effort that finally acquaints the community with elec- 
tric cookery and eventually makes sales of ranges. This adver- 
tising should be mailed so that it will arrive at its destination at 
a favorable time. For example: A letter arriving at a home 
Friday morning has a much better chance to secure complete 
attention of the housewife than if it is delivered Monday morning 
when she is busy with her washing or making out the week's 
schedule. 

Sales Letters, Sales letters should be mailed periodically to a 
complete list of prospects and a personally typewritten letter to 
a select list of women at least once every two or three weeks. 
Sales letters should be prepared if possible by a manufacturer's 
advertising department, an advertising agency or the merchan- 
dising staff of The Society for Electrical Development — if the 
central station does not have an advertising man experienced in 
this particular work. 

Sales letters must be short, personal, written from the cus- 
tomer's angle and signed with ink. They should contain a real 



stop and think for a moment, Madam, of the Intense heat 
you generate in your Itltchen when you burn an ordinary fuel 
range. Now remember, that much of this heat escapes— unused 
— up the chimney, and much radiates into the room! How dif- 
ferent with an Electric range. The electric company first gen- 
erates the electricity and then delivers the electric service to 
your range, which in turn converts the electricity into heat and 
applies this heat— without waste — to the cooking of your food. 
You find every convenience you are accustomed to on the 
Electric range; for example, the roomy warming shelves within 
easy reach, just above the cooking surface of the range. 



THE HOT PLATES AND VEGE- 
TABLE COOKERS OF THE ELEC- 
TRIC RANGE— Here on the flat and 
unobstructed cooking surface of the 
electric range are located the hot 
plates and vegetable cookers; no 
smoke — no fumes— no flame! Absolute 
safety at all times! Ordinary flat bot- 
tomed utensils, to which you are ac- 
customed — are used; the switches con- 
trol the amount of heat you wish for 
each hot plate or vegetable cooker 
The hot plates are used mostly for 
frying, quick boiling and other 
short operations, such as making 
sauces, melting butter or warming up 
various foods. There is a switch for 
each hot plate that provides varying 
degrees of heat 

The vegetable cookers fit down into 
receptacles provided for them and are 
especially designed for preparing 
stews, vegetables, cereals, stewed pud- 
dings, pot roasts, etc., which require 
steaming or boiling. These cookers 
can also be used as warmers, as they 
keep hot for some time after the heat 
has been turned off. Also In some 
operations the heat can be turned off 
before the article is cooked and the re- 
mainder of the cooking done by the 
stored heat — on the principle of "flre- 
lesB cookers." 




SWITCH PANEL AND SWITCHES THAT CONTROL THE 
HEAT — Your very first glance at the switch panel of an Electric 
range will instantly disclose to you how simple, how quickly 
understood and how easily operated these Electric cook stoves 
are. There is an individual switch for each heating element; 
you can tell instantly whether the switch is "oft" or "on." A 
name plate beneath each switch indicates the heating element 
each switch operates. Remember, too, that any desired tempera- 
ture can be secured on the top units or in the oven of an Electric 
range, by the manipulation of the switches controlling the heat- 
ing elements. And best of all, perhaps, is the absolute reliability 
of securing the same degree of heat each time; you quickly 
learn what temperatures are best for cooking the various dishes 
you prepare and thereafter all guesswork is eliminated 



The Kitchen 



Inside fold of a double-page sales letter of the Utah Power & Light Co. 



WARMING CLOSET OF THE ELECTRIC RANGE— CommodlouB 
and convenient for the housewife's use; designed for the par- 
pose of keeping dishes and fbod warm until ready to serve. The 
saving of food an Electric range effects, is one of Its greatest 
advantages. Meat and other food cooked in an Electric range 
retains -a very high percentage of the natural juices, which 
In turn result In a heavy saving of weight. Many women who 
use Electric ranges declare that Electric cooking adds twenty- 
five per cent in weight to every roast that goes to the table. 




-You 



THE ELECTRIC RANGE OVEN- 

ladles who have had to resort to g 
work and trial at each baking I 
of "slow" flres or hot fires, faulty 
draughts and the constant need of re- 
plenishing fuel, . stop and think for a 
moment what the oven of an Electric 
range means. When the switches of 
an Electric range are set to give a 
certain heat you know positively that 
the same amount of heat will be given 
off each time. 

The electric range has made cooking 
an exact science, with all uncertain^ 
eliminated. Just as the proper p<)r- 
tion of Ingredients for each dish la 
known to you, so is known the correct 
amount of heat to apply to the cook- 
ing of each separate dish And on 
all makes of Electric ranges this heat 
is instantly regulated to whatever de- 
gree of temperature Is required. 

The ovens of Electric ranges are 
correctly and substantially construct- 
ed and provided with heating elements 
that enable you to secure the exact 
temperature desired for any and all 
dishes. 



of Today! 



THE PAN SHELF — Broad and deep and providing plenty of 
room for pots and pans and kettles; a strong, substantial shelf 
convenient to use and easily kept clean. And you will find. 
Madam, that all Electric ranges contain many distinctive fea- 
tures of design, operation and workmanship. Electric cook 
stoves embody the results of extended research and practical 
experience; thousands of housewives in every section of the 
United States are using Electric ranges more successfully, more 
economically and with far greater personal comfort and con- 
venfence than any other form of cook stove or fuel. 

Every source of discomfort and Inconvenience has been eli- 
minated with Electric range cooking. Here is flameless cooking 
— safe cooking — a cool kitchen— no soot — ^no ashes — no dlrL The 
food tastes better and Is more nourishing. 



which graphically describes the advantages of the electric range. 



158 ADVERTISING 



message and some definite offer or suggestion that a call be made 
at the salesroom or a request returned for additional information. 
This will enable the close checking of results from each letter 
and prove a reliable guide for preparation of others. For the 
copy viewpoint see Preparation of Copy, page 167. 
Newspapers, Slides, Movies. Newspaper advertising is neces- 
sary in a range campaign to comb the town for people who are 
slightly interested in electric cookery and who can be developed 
into live prospects. The newspaper can be made a most wasteful 
advertising medium if the copy does not have a definite purpose, 
is not well written and placed in the most advantageous issues 
and positions of the best papers. 

The first announcement should be a full page; then the size 
can be brought down to quarter pages. Anything less than a 
quarter page however is generally over-looked as the majority 
of people only go through a newspaper once then throw it away. 
Its life is only a few hours and, because of this limitation, news- 
paper ads should be prepared to produce a striking, telling effect. 
Moreover a message cannot be completely told nor adequately 
displayed in an advertisement smaller than a quarter page. 

Profitable newspaper advertising is the result of continuous 
effort. It has a cumulative effect like a snowball rolling down hill. 
It produces more and more as it is continued. Therefore do not 
allow your faith or enthusiasm to weaken if returns do not reach 
expectations during the first few weeks. 

During this time advertisements should be run at least once 
a week — twice a week if the appropriation will permit. For 
pointers on the writing of the advertisement, see Preparation 
of Copy, page 167. 

The lantern slide is an excellent advertising medium because 
it gives one complete thought to a large number of people each 




You, Too, Will Cook On An 
Electric Range 

When You re Convinced of These Surprising Facts 

wc pwp«se tojrov^nght m Jf^-J";; w J"-^*';^"' i^/^^* Saves Five Wayi 

youTftwn t en c w pnic a c e o pure aw. Eleotne cooting sarcs tph tune, 

I-HoW tbf elePtiieiaBge »bol- it at ihf Pntf ni the 45 days yoir oion^y. iood. «ork and h«ollli. 




bouBahold duties elsewhere 

3 — How elwtric eooking pre- 
the shrinkage (cooking down) tbat 



i— How elertnc cooki 



6— How electrir rooking 
comfortable, doea not blackei 



Will You Take Advan- 
tage of- Our Offer? 



Will You Keep It? 

Hundrc<l« Answer "Ye 

■ HiindTfda ot SI Louis h 
iTires .nd co-kt prfpsre each day's Ugj,,'" 

le«olr« t 
Another (i?.: ••With tie Br«. 45 dsy Buaractee 



M iiB ooo-miced 


ilhoal added 

n is ooj- plsn 
^hundred, '-d 


Our Guarantee Offer 


W« r-ill lasull an 


KleMrif Rsngs 



See Electric Riuiges in Operation 
at the Household Show 



TICKETS FRe'e' w' ^"S''^£\g"f^^i "/T ™',?o'Jf/i 



Electricity U Cheap in St. Louis 

The Electric Company 

Union Electric: Main Office, 12th and Locust 

Braschet: 4912 Delmar; 3018 N. Grand; 3012 S. Grand 

SIX OFFICER IN THE COUNTY 




Full page newspaper advertisement of the Union Electric Light & Power 
Co., St. Louis. This advertisement is considered exceptionally good as it 
graphically portrays the many advantages of electric cookery. Note that it 
contains the definite-action feature — in offering free tickets to the 
Household Show which was being held at that time and at which they had 
an electric range exhibit and demonstration. 




August 12, 



"The most interesting thing in the house" — is the way one lady ex- 
pressed herself recently in speaking of her new electric range. 

And isn't it true that each day brings a greater realization of the 
wonderful possibilities of electric cookinf.? VEe are anxious that 
every woman who owns a cook stove should know exactly how to operate 
it to the best advantage and secure uniform results. 

Therefore, during the present month--August--w6 are conducting a ser- 
ies of exhibitions and demonstrations Of electric range cooking in the 
model electric kitchen of our retail store, ground floor Kearns Build- 
ing, every Tuesday and Friday afternoon, for the benefit of you who are 
already using electric cook stoves. These Tuesday and Friday afternoon 
demonstrations are in charge of experts in electric cooking, and the 
purpose of this letter is to extend you a personal invitation to attend 
the exhibitions, bringing with you as nany friends as you wish. 

The demonstrations are free and you will find it extremely interesting 
to ask 'two or three of your friends, who haven't electric ranges as yet, 
^•^V__— _to come with you in order that they may see for themselves how easy and 
"^^^^^^^^SiFSxand economical electric cooking really is. The ladies in charge 
f,of th^se demonstrations of electric ranges in actual operation will 
\^glaa.,^to answer any questions you may ask and every feature of eleo- 
^ trln iracE^kCOoking will be explained in detail. 





Another sales letter of the Utah Power & Light Co. printed in red, green 

and black. This letter with the one on page 154 proved unusually 

effectivejtecause of their colors'and interesting text. 




PURPOSE AND KINDS lei 



HAVE YOU SEEN THIS CARD IN THE STREET CARS __, 



MAKES HOUSEKEEPING A NEW SENSATION < 



Low Cost A Model Kitchen with 
all its clean, labor-saving economy is 
possible for vou on our new low rate 
for cooking and heating. — It is the 
cheapest way to live— Let us explain why. 

THE EDISON ELECTRIC ILUUMINATING CO. 

aixmit arvmcs Qp BOSTON nxrteit arottcs 

■ n <i n A ■ 'a » a ' a » .» -* • A 5 b , 



One of a series of street car cards of the 
Edison Electric Illuminating Co., Boston. 
One advantage of electric cookery was con- 
cisely described in each card of the series. 



evening while they are in a relaxed and absorbing mood. It is 
read because it is easy to read and the only thing which can be 
seen in the dark theatre. The motion picture is considered to be 
an advertising method between 95 and 100 percent efficient because 
it gets the undivided attention of its entire circulation; it interests 
every one because it is a movie — a story — because it is life it- 
self—the most interesting thing in the world ; because it presents 
a complete selling argument more thoroughly and effectively than 
a human salesman possibly could and to hundreds of persons 
in a few minutes. Lantern slides and in some instances, motion 
pictures are furnished by electric range manufacturers. 

Educational Work. Educational advertising is maintained by: 
(a) Securing domestic science and restaurant installations by 
holding dinners for architects and builders, owners and managers 
of institutions doing commercial cookery, (b) Establishing such 
organizations as a Cookery Service Bureau or a Cooking School. 
Such Bureaus and similar institutions of educational advertising 
are described under Sales Development, page 107. 



162 



ADVERTISING 



Feature Advertising, The following plans have proved suc- 
cessful and should be used wherever possible: 

1 . Get ranges in special exhibits 
such as bazaars, carnivals, 



Cook By Electricity 



Di. Hufh Via, 
C W ancr. 

ioclM.X:ocl.ial.. 
Jolm L Livot. 
M« W. C CHnr.tv. 

J. Z. HoUad.r. 
R. T. McUutal™. 
Hitry S Hodjo 



Alhed W. Mni<f. 
Kiiky Snldn. 
Mr>. E. H. Modunci. 
Mn. J. F. Cool. 



, BEST OF COOKING 



Ru[I;y Koad 
Rufby Road 
Rusby Road 



Unlvrnily Place 
Uni««nity Plac* 
Um,.Ail, Place 



Thorn.. W.P..C. f.y. Sp.,„, •■•" •-• '•-"'^'"' 

LyDdhall Apailmenis, University An FJcctrically Equipped Kitchen 

Dectric Kange, Electric Waffle Irons, Electric Water Healer, Steam Table 
Supplying 125 People Per Meal 

— :The Method You Will Eventually Use:— 
The Electric Way 




& A. RAILWAY COMPANY 



Newspaper advertisement of the Charlottes- 
ville & Albermarle Railway Co., Va. in which 
they list the names of range owners. This 
idea of referring the prospects to present 
users is considered good advertising, par- 
ticularly when, a new device is placed on the 
market. It is unusually effective in electric 
range advertising. 



shows and similar places. 

2. Publish testimonial letters in 
booklets. This sort of ad- 
vertising convinces a class 
who would believe a third 
party more quickly than 
they would a central station 
salesman. Never publish a 
customer's testimonial how- 
ever without consent. 

3. Watch the national women's 
magazines for cooking ar- 
ticles and purchase and mail 
reprints to a special list. 

4. Put on a parade when the 
first ranges arrive in town. 
Get a brass band; decorate a 
float or two, particularly one 
of a scene of a woman being 
freed from the slavery of a 
hot, dirty, unreliable fuel 
range. Get the story in the 
local newspapers and make 
as much fuss over the event 
as if the President was com- 
ing to make the town the 
capital of the United States. 

5. Get a range in every restaur- 
ant window possible and 
induce the chef to do his 
cooking there. 

6. Put on an electric cooking 
scenario contest with a prize 



PURPOSE AND KINDS 163 

offer of about $25. This will get every woman in the town think- 
ing about the many advantages of the electric range. Have the 
best two or three stories produced by some film company and 
present them in the picture theatres of the town or territory. 
These films should be from 400 to 600 feet long and be run 
once a week. 

7. Another good idea for mild or summer weather is to install 
a range in a public park. The Union Electric Light 85 Power 
Company installed one in Forest Park, St. Louis, during the 
summer. A coin-operating machine was attached to it and 
for five cents the switches could be turned on and the surface 
units or the oven could be used for a certain length of time. 
It was in constant use by picnic and basket parties for heating 
coffee and miscellaneous cookery. 

8. Distribute novelties which will attract women to demonstra- 
tions. These can be kitchen utensils such as biscuit cutters, 
minute glasses, measures, food choppers, can openers, bread 
knives, wooden spoons and similar small, useful articles. 
Such novelties can be secured at surprisingly low prices. 

Publicity, Publicity is secured by getting stories about electric 
ranges and electric cookery in the local newspapers and publi- 
cations. Get on the good side of the newspaper men of the 
town and sell them a range. Get every restaurant manager 
who is using an electric range to mention his * 'Electric 
Cookery'* on his menu. Run lines of advertising about the elec- 
tric range on your monthly bills, statements, letterheads, envel- 
opes, wrapping paper, bags — everything sent to customers. 

Put on a prize essay contest for children which will be described 
in all the newspapers. The first prize can be about $25; the 
second best $15 and the third $5. This will get all the children 
in the town thinking and talking about electric cookery and 
asking their mothers and fathers why it is better than any other 
method. This is very good publicity. 



Planning the Campaign 

Primary Factors. The size and cost of an advertising campaign 
and the selection of the mediums to be used must be determined 
from the size of the town or territory; and to what extent and 
how rapidly the central station desires to build a range load. 

First, the campaign should be laid out in two parts. Part One 
should be a prospectus which will include: 

1. An analysis of the town as a market for electric ranges. 

2. Fundamental plans for the introduction of electric cookery. 

3. Complete description of the sales policies adopted. 

4. Synopsis of the advertising, time of the insertions and loca- 
tions of the billboards and similar mediums. 

5. Cost of the general publicity and the educational and direct 
sales work. 

6. Sales results which are expected during the campaign. 

Part Two is the active part of the campaign which consists 
o f the copy and layouts for all the advertisements and other sales 
activity. It should also include the programs of the demonstra- 
tions, outlines of the different sales talks, the complete set of 
sales letters and the designs for the window displays. 

Practically all copy should be written and laid out before the 
campaign actually begins. After the first activities are under 
way, everyone is so busy that little time will be found to do 
much planning and writing of additional advertising. If possible, 
it is a good plan to secure the assistance of an advertising agency 
or an experienced advertising man. 

Appropriation, There are two ways of determining an adver- 
tising appropriation. The first is to take a certain percentage of 
last year's gross or net sales. The second is to appropriate a 
sufficient amount to adequately finance the campaign, this 
amount being based on the anticipated returns. 

164 



PLANNING THE CAMPAIGN 165 

Percentages on which advertising is based vary widely — from 
3^% to 50% of gross sales — depending on sales policies and sim- 
ilar factors. Thus it is impossible to give any standard percentage 
or definite foundation upon which to base figures. Each sales 
manager must determine his own percentage, based on his own 
business judgment. 

One thought must be kept in mind : That a great part of the 
range advertising must be educational. During the first year, a 
higher percentage of expenditure must be allowed in proportion 
to the sales than during the second year when the central 
station will begin to reap the benefit of the money it is obliged 
to spend in the beginning. 

One method of figuring an electric range appropriation is 
offered however: Generously estimate the possible purchasers 
who through financial ability should own an electric range at 
the end of the twelve months after the campaign is begun. Figure 
the necessary selling prices of a popular type of range and then 
compute at least 10% for advertising. Multiply the computed 
amount by the number of ranges estimated as possible to sell 
during the twelve months and the result will be a reasonable 
appropriation If the town is unusually prosperous or if the pos- 
sible customers are of a very select clasS; this percentage may 
easily be increased to 13%, 15% or even higher. The customer 
really pays for this advertising and in determining the percentage, 
it is simply a matter of estimating how much the sale will stand. 

The range prospects for the year may be divided into three 
classes: Those who may buy immediately, those who may pur- 
chase a range within a few months and those who may not buy 
until electric cookery has been advertised to them for a longer 
period. Thus the appropriation must be applied at least two 
ways: To direct educational work and to continuous publicity. 



166 ADVERTISING 



At least 70% of the appropriation should be apportioned to the 
development of direct sales and the remainder to continuous 
advertising — day-in-and-day-out publicity. 

Mediums. The advertising mediums should be of three kinds: 

1. Educational advertising mediums such as: 

Booklets, private and public demonstrations, electrical shows, 
county fairs and such opportunities as loaning ranges to 
church affairs, bazaars, and similar places where women 
gather for entertainment yet where it is possible to present 
a lecture and a demonstration on electric cookery, and dis- 
tribute advertising booklets. 

2. Direct-result advertising mediums such as: 
Newspapers, window displays, lantern slides and special sales 
where some present such as a clover-leaf cooking set is given 
away with every range sold during a specified period. 

3. General publicity mediums such as: Billboards, electric signs, 
metal signs, sides of delivery trucks and the backs of light 
bills, statements, letter heads and similar places. 

Before selecting mediums, determine just where the sales effort 
is to be focused — step by step. For example: In the beginning, 
the best plan is to sell ranges to all the electrical men of the town, 
also all the managers and chefs of restaurants, clubs, hotels, 
hospitals and other institutions. Thus the first expenditures 
would be for * 'electric" dinners and illustrated lectures to 
these men. Read Securing their Interest on page 113. 

Before placing the entire campaign, it is well to test the "pulling 
power" of the various mediums which are being contemplated 
to determine which are most efficient. For a description of 
''keying" and advertisement which will help in such work, see 
page 169. Ofttimes it is found that one medium is far more 
eff"ective for range advertising than a more costly one and it is 
advisable to experiment before spending much money. 



Preparation of Copy 

Fundamentals. The purpose of a range advertisement is to 
create consumer interest — not consumer demand. It takes a sales- 
man to actually consummate the sale. The advertisement only 
informs, educates and develops the public's mind to the point 
where an interest is aroused and a form of acceptance produced. 

Advertisements should be considered as a series of lessons — 
as links in a chain. One lesson, one link or one advertisement 
is just one step; and it is the succession of these steps that is 
cumulative and profitable. 

There are certain fundamental thoughts to bear in mind in 
the preparation of copy. The advertisement must do four 
things : 

1. Attract attention — through a distinctive display which is se- 
cured with (1) a striking illustration; (2) little copy; (3) 
plainly readable type of good size; (4) liberal white space, 
throughout the ad between matter and border. 

2. Create interest — with facts — not generalities; written from the 
customer's viewpoint — not the copy- writer's; use actual 
news photographs (or faithful drawings) of installations and 
demonstrations to make illustrations — not unnatural draw- 
ings of odd looking ranges. 

3. Develop desire — by describing the advantages of electric cook- 
ery — not the range; the service and economy — not the price 
nor cost of operation ; what the range will do for the reader 
— not what it did for someone else. 

4. Instill action — by the offer of some special inducement for at- 
tending a lecture or demonstration, by a coupon in the comer 
of the advertisement which, if returned within a limited time, 
is good for some "special" booklet or folder. Use a stimulus 
to get replies. The majority of people are indifferent to 
commonplace announcements (ads) and without some incen- 
tive to prompt action or decision they may momentarily con- 
sider your ad but are very apt to delay and forget. 

167 



168 ADVERTISING 



Always be definite with interesting facts and details — never 
meaningless generalities, bombastic statements or startling 
claims beyond the conception of the reader. Don't be technical. 
Base each piece of copy on one idea — have but one principal 
thought. It is difficult enough to make people read and under- 
stand one fact or statement. Be direct, clear, simple and con- 
cise. Avoid irrelevant, clever remarks and illogical humor. 
People do not read advertising to be amused. Buying — learning 
about electric ranges — is a serious matter. Be absolutely sincere. 
Be modest in claims. Confidence must be inspired because it is 
the winning factor in every sale. 

Direct your thought toward a composite woman and contin- 
ually keep her in mind. Appeal to her reason for economy's 
sake, to her pride of being up-to-date, to her leisure in adding 
hours to every day. Avoid adjectives. Make the copy just as 
short as possible. The shorter the better. Bear in mind that 
the United States is a nation of headline readers. Few people — 
unless they are intensely and unusually interested — read long , 
advertisements . 

Copy. Advertising copy is merely a sales talk on paper. Sales 
reasoning is identical in both printed advertising and sales con- 
versation. The advertisement finds the eye and interest of thou- 
sands of uninterested persons where a sales talk is poured into the 
ear of one interested person. The purpose of an advertisement is 
to create interest and develop a desire for further information. 
The purpose of a sales talk is to round out the knowledge of a 
prospect and influence her to purchase. Thus the advertisement 
is step one and the sales talk step two — in making a sale. 

The salesman presents the advantages of his goods, asks and 
answers questions; the advertisement not only presents the talk 
but anticipates the questions and answers. It also stimulates 



PREPARATION OF COPY 169 

the desire for additional information. Therefore a coupon 
attached to the corner of the advertisement is one good way to 
get direct, quick returns from an ad. Such a coupon is also 
used for ''keying" the advertisement — learning what newspapers 
and what issues of these advertising mediums have the best pull- 
ing power. Sometimes Sunday papers are better than week day 
issues. Sometimes a Saturday night issue brings in a larger num- 
ber of inquirers than a Wednesday morning paper. So ''keying" 
an advertisement is the only way to find out what papers and 
what issues of these papers give the best returns. "Keying" is 
done by placing a number or letter in small type in the corner 
of the coupon— this "key" denoting the paper used and the date 
inserted. 

In writing copy do it sincerely in a "come-on" spirit of wel- 
come. Make it an honest "write-for-complete-information" in- 
vitation. The whole story cannot be told in one advertisement. 
So the reader must send for a booklet and folder. Bear in mind 
to describe: 

The "kitchen" principles of 

electric cookery — NOT the range itself. 

Simplicity of operation — NOT strong construction 

Cleanliness — NOT white enamel splashers 

General economy — NOT the low rate 

Saving in work — NOT the "moderate cost of pur- 

chase" 
Saving in food — NOT the monthly consumption of 

current 
Newer, better ways — NOT just "matchless" cookery 

What it does for you — NOT "thousands sold in Amer- 

ica" 
Easy payment plan — NOT the guarantee 

The copy should if possible, be connected with some local in- 
terest, some local activity, such as a Red Cross campaign, elec- 



j doPowct 

6otd HtodL 










aj<«ae»»Mrii¥ii«rT«i?»«;»«a»K«r«' 






5^3-^/^^^^^^ 



Illustration of a rough layout of an advertisement showing Just what is 

required, with the typewritten copy, by a printer or newspaper compositor 

before setting up an advertisement. If the advertising man does not know 

type sizes he may leave these instructions to the printer. 



trical show, church 
bazaar, home furnish- 
ing exhibit, carnival, 
food and fuel conser- 
vation drive or some 
similar movement. 
Layout, When giving 
copy to a newspaper 
or printer to be set 
up, furnish a layout 
so he may know ap- 
proximately what 
style and set-up is 
wanted. 

As to typographical 
arrangement the 
printer usually knows 
what looks well typo- 
graphically ; but he 
doesn't always know, 
cannot possibly know, 
the idea in the adver- 
tiser's mind, how it 
should be set in type 
and arranged to con- 
vey that idea in print- 
ed form to the mind 
of the reader, in the 
way the advertiser in- 
tended. Therefore, 
illustrations of the 
advertiser's selling 
ideas should be given 




Accept Our 45=Day Guarantee 



Learn Why Electric Cooking 

Our object is not to make money 
on electric ranges. 

WTiat we propose is to sell you 
the fuel — electric current — wnen 
you have bought a range. 

If you purchase the range from 
us, we will install the necessary 
wiring, etc., at our own expense. 

You need pay only a tenth of 
the price of the range at the time 
of purchase. Then cook all your 
meals on it 45 days. 

If you keep the range after that, 
pay the balance monthly for 11 
months. But if your range does 
not do what we claim, we will re- 
move it and refund all money you 
have paid (except for electric 
current used). 

We are willing to make this 
guarantee because we know that 
women who cook this way cannot 
be induced to return to inferior 
methods. 

In Small Homes and 
Mansions 

Electric cooking is favored by 
thousands of women in 3,500 com- 
munities in the United States. 

Here in St. Louis where the rate 
is only 3 cents per kilowatt hour, 
the advantage of the electric way 
is tremendous. 

And in hundreds of St. Louis 
homes — from cottages to magnifi- 
cent residences, all food is prepared 
on electric ranges. 

Families in small homes and 
mansions sit down to meals cooked 



Rules in Thousands of Homes 

as nutritiously and palatably as 
those set before kings. 

Even the inexpensive cuts of 
meat will come out juicy, tender 
and delicious. 

For electric cooking retains all 
savors and flavors. The fiber is 
thoroughly cooked — toughness 
disappeal^, and you sene new 
delights at very low cost. 
Spotless Kitchen 
— Smokeless House 

"I find electricity very much 
cleaner," wTntes one St. Louis 
housewife (name on request). 
"not only in the kitchen but 
throughout the house. It does 
away with fumes and the smoke 
created by the burning of grease 
in contact with a blaze." 

Be free of the drudgery of scour- 
ing pots and pans — j^eep your 
kitchen cool and comfortable, 
with spotless ceilings and walls. 

Save many hours a month — save 
food — save work and health and 
money. 

All these advantages come with 
electric cooking. 

Each week we are installing 
many electric ranges. 

Now many more women will 
want them on our 45-day guar- 
antee. 

So don't put off That might 
delay installation. Write, call or 
telephone for full information to- 
day. 



Electric Ranges are Inexpensive to Operate 

- rlMUIc cooking »nd llghUDf comblord. Thti t. ma avenge for .JI.al^4^d 



Electricity Is Cheat) in St. Louis 

The Electric Company 

Union Electric: Main Office, 12th and Locust 
Branches: 4912 Delmar: 3028 N Grand: 3012 S. Grand 
SIX OFFICES IN THE COUNTY 



This is the finished advertisement which was 
laid-out on the opposite page. 



172 ADVERTISING 



the printer in the way of layout which will show the exact order 
of display wanted to tell the story in type as it has been care- 
fully planned in the mind of the advertiser. 

White space is one of the most valued adjuncts of advertising. 
Plenty of freedom should appear in the general set up of the 
type. Especially should there be a liberal space between the 
body of the ad (the text matter) and the border. 

Not many central station managers are so conversant with 
type faces that they can designate different styles by name. But 
every manager knows the thought he intends to convey; and he 
further knows (by his familiarity with the newspapers) just how 
he would like to have his thoughts set up in type. He can clip 
from his daily paper just those type faces that he wants used at 
certain places. The technical names need not concern him — the 
printer will get his ideas just as well.' 



IN ALL advertising copy, demonstrations 
and sales conversation, avoid any refer- 
ence to: Lightning, electric shock and 
live wires. Artists delight in drawing range 
advertisement borders, illustrations and 
decorative effects filled with flashes of light- 
ning — just the thing which should be 
omitted! Censor all advertisements care- 
fully, for such things create harmful 
impressions. 



CHAPTER IX 

SERVICE AND MAINTENANCE 

Electric Cooking Service 

Real Service, There are four divisions or stages to this service: 
Buying Service — helping the woman select a suitable range and 
educating her in its operation; Installation Service — getting the 
range quickly and satisfactorily installed; Current Service — the 
continuity of the supply of electricity 24 hours a day; Main- 
tenance Service — in quickly making repairs that may be 
necessary. 

Fundamentally the object is to keep the customer satisfied — 
with Service. The attitude must be assumed that she is always 
right; she can have anything within reason; the central station is 
her servant. So never displease ; never argue ; never make prom- 
ises which cannot be fulfilled. That is Service! 

Selling a range is about 10 percent salesmanship and 90 percent 
Service. A range must be properly installed, must receive the 
proper voltage, must be watched carefully for several weeks. 
There are a number of little things which might go wrong on a 
new electric range and it is the duty of the central station to 
voluntary learn of, and repair, these deficiencies. For example: 
A connection under a surface unit might become loose which 
would prevent it from developing maximum heat. Probably the 
annoyance might be so slight the user might not make a formal 
complaint but would be greatly dissatisfied with the service. 

Watch each installation as though it meant the sale of 100 
ranges, because during the first year of the campaign the central 

* 173 



174 SERVICE AND MAINTENANCE 

station will find that many of its prospects have called up range 
owners and asked them all about their new cooking device. Any- 
slight defect in service might influence the user to intimate that 
the range was not all that she had anticipated. And such a 
suggestion would not only injure one or many sales but also 
make the inquirers talk disparagingly and spread adverse ideas. 
So a range installation cannot be given too much care and atten- 
tion. It is better to have five ranges giving satisfactory service 
than fifty ranges giving poor service. 

Handling Complaints, A complaint should be investigated 
within an hour after it is made. Specialists should be employed 
on this kind of work rather than regular repair men who do not 
thoroughly understand it. There are so many things they should 
know and so many little "stunts" in making range repairs, that 
one or two specialists are better than five or six general repair 
men. Before repairing ranges, these specialists should be in- 
structed in the construction and operation of the range by a 
competent manufacturer's salesman. 

A customer should not be charged for repairs unless it is some 
damage due to direct carelessness, for which the manufacturer 
or central station is not responsible. In making replacements 
always give the customer the benefit of the doubt. Small me- 
chanical or electrical repairs are generally so trivial in cost that it 
is better to do the work gratis rather than irritate the customer 
with a small bill. After a complaint has been adjusted, a pleasant- 
voiced woman should call up and ask if everything is satisfac- 
tory. This promotes good -will and shows that the central 
station is sincerely interested in pleasing the customer. 

Pointers for Service Men. In a case of range trouble the 
first thing to do is to learn the size and style of the range . Take one 



ELECTRIC COOKING SERVICE 175 

surface and one oven unit in case of a burn-out. Question the 
housewife about what happened — what she was doing when the 
trouble occurred. Test fuses, examine all connections, go over 
the switches. The trouble may be found in a loose connection, a 
melted fuse or a burned-out element. If a short circuit has 
occurred do not put in another fuse until you are sure that the 
trouble has been repaired. This can easily be determined by 
putting in 110-volt lamp on each side of the circuit in the fuse 
plug sockets. 

Educating the New User 

Home Demonstrations. The home demonstration is the sec- 
ond phase of central station service. Its importance is obvious. 
If the user lacks a thorough knowledge of the operation, the 
electric range will mean no more to her than the old fuel stove. 
She will not be satisfied. Disparaging talk will be disseminated. 
Electric cookery can be inexpensive or expensive, superior or 
inferior — depending on the knowledge and care of the operator. 
The heat qualities, the operation, the control and results are dif- 
ferent from fuel cookery. So the demonstrator should call im- 
mediately after the service has been turned on; and, in addition 
to other work, assist in the preparation of the first meal. 

Three demonstrations have been found to be most effective. 
The first should show the fundamentals of electric range service : 

How to read the meter 

Method of figuring bill 

Why fuses melt 

Correct insertion of fuses 

Employing regular electricians for repair work 

Operation of main-line switch 

How to utilize conserved heat 

Necessity of cleaning utensils before using new range 

Advantages of duplex or clover-leaf utensils 



176 SERVICE AND MAINTENANCE 

This demonstration should cover an explanation of the prin- 
ciples and construction of the range ; difference between fuel and 
electric cookery and (as mentioned before) preparation of the 
first meal. 

The second demonstration includes the description and use of 
the oven for baking. Third demonstration includes boiling, 
broiling, roasting, toasting and other cooking processes. These 
three demonstrations could be given at one time but three are 
suggested so the demonstrator will have the opportunity to 
make two additional calls which will enable her to see that the 
range is working properly, if the purchaser likes it and also 
answer any questions which might have come up during the 
first few days. 

The demonstrator must cultivate the housewife. Win her 
friendliness. Be kind, sympathetic! Always agree with her. 
Don't criticise the kitchen or the home. Women are sensitive. 
Confine talk and work to the range and the cooking. In com- 
bating such practices as covering vegetables with water and the 
continuous basting, watching and stirring of food, be diplomatic 
and suggest rather than command. Women do not like to be 
told how to cook. But they can be told how to use their new range. 
Demonstrate every point. Bare description is inadequate. 

Care should be taken not to overheat the oven, as it is built 
on the fireless cooker principle and the heat is cumulative. Over- 
heating may injure the oven lining and will also be too hot for 
proper baking and roasting. 

The Oven, Once every month the oven should be treated with 
olive oil or a similar substance to keep it sweet, clean and free 
from rust. When boiling vegetables or roasting meats, just 
sufficient water to cover the bottom of the pan should be used. 
Thus the food is cooked by the steam and the nutriment re- 



EDUCATING THE NEW USER 177 

tained — not boiled into the water to be drained away. See 
Better Cooked Food, page 135. 

Advise the complete utilization of the oven heat. Suggest that 
a pan of apples can be placed in the oven after the other cookery 
is finished and baked on the stored heat. 

Surface Units, When boiling, the current should be turned 
from ''Full" to ''Low" heat as soon as the water reaches the 
boiling point. The "Low" heat will maintain a sufficient tem- 
perature and reduce current consumption 75%. When cooking 
several vegetables on the top of the range, the best plan is to 
start the different pans on one surface unit which is kept at full 
heat. As foods reach the boiling point they should be transferred 
to other units which are turned to "Low" heat. Thus the tem- 
perature is maintained and a great deal of current is saved 
through not having to bring these several separate units to their 
"Full" heat. 

Another current conservation plan is to heat water for dishes 
by the stored heat of the surface units. Generally the water is 
sufficiently heated when the meal is finished. Don't fail to 
demonstrate these points. 

Surface units are not harmed by liquids boiling over on them. 
Heavy substances like molasses carbonize and can be removed 
with a light, non-metallic brush. Everything else including dis- 
colorations will be burned away by the intense heat. Enclosed - 
type surface units are of course merely wiped off. 
Other Appliances, At the time of the final visit, the demon- 
strator should learn whether the housewife is interested in other 
domestic labor-saving devices. If so, literature should be sent 
and a sales letter describing the trial installation plan and the 
installment payment policy. Many appliances are sold in this 
way, 



CHAPTER X 
ELECTRIC WATER HEATERS 

This chapter on electric water heating has 
been adapted from a recent report of the Engi- 
neering and Sales Department of one of the 
large electric range and water heater manu- 
facturers. It is considered a complete and 
comprehensive analysis of the subject. 

Water Heating 

Load. One of the first questions which is invariably asked by 
the prospective range purchaser is "How shall I heat my water?" 
Many central stations which are aggressively merchandising 
electric ranges have believed that water heating is not necessarily 
involved in a range sale. They have become accustomed to telling 
the prospect that for a few dollars a coal or gas water heater 
can be installed which will give entirely satisfactory service. 

The central station which is handling its range work on this 
basis is displacing coal and gas ranges and is thereby multiplying 
three-fold its revenue from residence customers. But it is neg- 
lecting an additional three -fold revenue by avoiding a water 
heater installation which can be made without additional capital 
investment and which is thereby more valuable in connection 
with the range load than the range load itself. Like the range, 
the water heater does not make the customer pay out additional 
money for water heating. It is mainly a case of paying the central 
station instead of buying fuel. 

Another reason why any central station which is now exploiting 
electric ranges should take up water heating lies in the fact that 

178 



WATER HEATING 



179 



many kitchens where an electric 
range is installed a gas or coal 
stove is retained for water heat- 
ing purposes. The presence of 
these stoves in the kitchen leads 
to their frequent use especially 
in the Winter with the result 
that the full revenue is not de- 
rived from the electric range. 
Without a doubt the time has 
come when the central station 
should strive for the All-Electric 
Kitchen. 

Storage System, Both from 
the standpoint of the central 
station and the householder, 
electric water heating may be 
classified under two systems: 
The Storage System and the In- 
termittent System. The Storage 
System maintains an available 
supply of hot water and it rep- 
resents a continuous load for 
central station. The Intermit- 
tent System requires that the 
heater be turned on whenever 
hot water is wanted. 

The Storage System involves 
the use of a heater and tank of 
sufficient capacity to give the 
required amount of water during 



COLD WATER 
(NLEr 



HOT IV ATE R 
OUTLET 

COCK 




SERVICE COCK 
CAN BE USED POR 
RESTR/CrfNC 
CtRCULAT/OM 



Outside-circulation type electric 
water heater 



180 ELECTRIC WATER HEATERS 

the entire 24 hours, as the heater usually operates during this 
entire period. Do not use a tank smaller than 30 gallons for a 
600 watt heater. The size of the tank should be increased for 
storage heaters of higher wattage. 

The electric energy is required to heat the water and also to 
supply the radiation losses while the water is being stored — but 
not used. The kilowatt demand for a storage water heater is 
quite low — in actual practice 600 to 1,000 watts. In such a case 
the connected load and the maximum demand are the same; and, 
being always in use, they provide the highest load factor, namely, 
100%. 

This attractive load enables the central station to sell current 
profitably at a low rate per kilowatt hour which makes a reason- 
able charge per month to the consumer. The low maximum 
demand means low transformer and copper costs. Because the 
water is always hot and ready for instant use, the consumer gets 
the best possible service. 

The Storage System is especially desirable in the northern part 
of the United States. People living in cold climates require more 
hot water than the people in warm climates ; hence the central sta- 
tion in order to get water heating business must find some means 
of making sales so that the monthly bill will not be excessive. 

From the standpoint of conservation, the thermostatic control 
is ideal for the Storage System. It always provides plenty of 
hot water but prevents any waste of the electric current if 
the hot water is not used. The thermostat is interesting to the 
central station salesman who is unable to closely estimate the 
amount of hot water required. Without the thermostat, the 
quantity of hot water is fixed by the wattage selected. If it is 
too high, there is a waste and if it is too low the family will com- 
plain of insufficient supply. 





























WATER HEATING 
























181 






















































































































































__ 












































r»' 


iK 






___ 


_^ 






— 


r 


'"^ 








































r£ 


IP 


rfif 


ru 


It. 






























































u 


T 


-" 












































__, 




















^ 


■^ 
































ukfE^TI^C-^D 


^ 






u-'-^ 




v: 














/ 










/ 




























Cf 


'<^ ^'■'y^'^-\\ 










^, 














/ 












/ 




























--- 




■'_ 








\ 










^.0 










/ 
































ff 


ti>^ 


^, 


^ 


" 












^ 


■^ 










5 Oi\ 










1 












1 














Tl/' 


te 


r^Jl^ 
















-^ 


^ 






^- 
































1 








■n 


fiP 














^<ir* 


i 








^^ 


,-' 














^ 












R 


eit 


RH 


T£ 


o \ 








^ 


-- 












if 


"^ 


i^ 


-,,A^ 






















i: 












CI 


9Cl 


LH 


'10 


i 


\ 


, " 














If' 


ej 




-f' 


«^ 




' 








































^ 






\ 










pi 


f. 


r 


,4P 


































«t 














^ 


'' 








\ 












^ 


r- 




































Or 












y 














\ 


^ ■ 


-^ 1 


















































/ 
















^ 


^ 


^ 




















































' 










. 


^ 


"^ 


p=' 


















































^60 
















^ 


U 


"^ 






















































Q: 










y' 


■> 




































































. 


^ 


































































1. 


^ 


^ 







































































i " s 



Curve showing how hot water accumulates at the top of a storage tank 
when an outside-circulation type water heater is used. 



With the thermostatic arrangement, a wattage is selected 
which will be amply high and which the thermostat will automati- 
cally cut off from time to time depending on the quantity of hot 
water used. In this way, the current is automatically adjusted 
to the requirements of the home. Cutting down the waste current 
will usually mean a saving in the cost of current, at the same time 
satisfactory service is insured. 

When the water heater and range are installed the maximum 
demand is usually reduced by the thermostatic control, because 
the water is hot and the current off when the cooking is being 
done. For example: In the morning when the range is started 
for breakfast, the thermostat has cut off the water heating 
current, as the tank has accumulated sufficient hot water during 
the night and is full. The washing of breakfast dishes will 



182 ELECTRIC WATER HEATERS 

consume enough hot water to cause the current to be turned on 
again, but by this time the cooking is finished. 

If no hot water is used during the day or night, the tank will 
automatically shut itself off when it becomes full instead of accu- 
mulating steam which would back up in the water pipes and waste 
a considerable amount of current. If the central station is selling 
current for water heating on a flat rate, the thermostat saves 
coal in the power house — or water power, as the case may be — 
yet the customer will pay as much for a thermostatically con- 
trolled heating system per month as for the simple Storage System, 
and the central station will reap the saving effected. On the 
other hand if the customer is being charged by a kilowatt hour 
rate, the bill will be much smaller. 

Intermittent System. Water heaters for the Intermittent 
System are usually of 2 to 5 kilowatts' capacity. Compared 
with a steady demand of a storage heater of 600 to 1,000 watt 
capacity, the Intermittent Heater does not provide as good a 
load factor. The maximum demand for which a central station 
must provide and therefore accordingly charge, depends on the 
idiosyncrasies of the consumer. The customer gets the hot 
water service they desire and should be willing to pay for it. 
It is likely, however, that the diversity factor of a large number 
of water heaters because of short and irregular use would be high. 
From the customer's standpoint it is evident that the service 
is not so good. He always has to plan ahead of time to provide 
himself with hot water, and the length of time he has to wait 
depends on the size of the heater. It might be quite satisfactory 
in households where only a small quantity of hot water is used, 
as in warm climates where people are not accustomed to much 
hot water. From the central station point of view, the Inter- 
mittent System is favored where the maximum demand is not 



WATER HEATING 183 



important, because the generating cost forms the larger portion 
of the cost per kilowatt hour. The use of a thermostat in con- 
nection with the Intermittent System will be of value chiefly as 
a protection against accidental over-heating of the heating unit, 
in case the switch is carelessly left on long enough to cause the 
generation of steam. 

Factors Affecting Montfily Bill, The consumer's bill for water 
heating depends on the following factors, arranged in the order 
of their importance: 

1. The rate by central stations for current used for water 
heating. 

2. The amount of hot water used by the consumer; that is, the 
service given to the consumer, for which he will pay in pro- 
portion to what he gets. This is an important factor. 

3. The climate; that is, the daily temperature, and especially the 
average temperature of the cold water. These conditions vary 
so widely over the United States that each central station 
must consider its own climatic conditions. 

4. The efficiency of the water heating system; that is, tank lag- 
ging, pipe lagging, etc. (The efficiency with which heat is 
transmitted from heating unit to water, whether outside cir- 
culation, inside circulation or clamp-on, etc., is of little 
importance, because it is nearly 100% in any case.) 

If a Storage System, the number of kilowatt hours used per 
month depends on whether the salesman properly estimated the 
size of heater for the family's requirements. This difficulty is 
not present if a thermostat is used, as it automatically supplies 
only enough hot water to meet the actual requirements. 
Efficiency and Time to Heat Water, Much misleading infor- 
mation has been published on water heater efficiency because the 
authors have not considered actual working conditions. For 
example: It is often stated that the efficiency of an immersion 
unit is 100%. It is true that, if one considers only the direct 



1S4 



ELECTRIC WATER HEATERS 



transmission of heat from an immersion unit to the water, the 
efficiency is almost 100%. 

But the practical efficiency takes into consideration the whole 
system, including not only the heating unit, but the insulation 
on the tank, piping, and quantity of hot water used. Practical 
efficiency is that at which the electric heater furnishes hot water 
at the faucet. A wrong impression is created if one considers 
merely the efficiency measured by heating a tank of water from 
cold to hot. What the household does in actual practice is to 
draw water at different times and in various amounts, all through 
the day, so that practical efficiency is determined by using just 
such 24-hour cycles of use. 

In order to get a standard test by which different systems and 
equipments could be compared, the following cycle was selected: 







STANDARD 24-HOUR 


CYCLE 






Gallons Hot 






Gallons Hot 




Time 


Water Drawn 


Purpose 


Time 


Water Drawn 


Purpose 


7:00 A.M. 


1.0 


Cooking Breakfast. 


1:30 P.M. 


5.0 


Washing Luncheon 


7:15 A.M. 


5.0 


Bathroom. 






Dishes. 


8:30 A.M. 


5.0 


Washing Breakfast 


3:00 P.M. 


2.0 


Bathroom or Cooking. 






Dishes. 


4:30 P.M. 


2.0 


Cooking Dinner. 


10:30 A.M. 


2.0 


Cooking Luncheon. 


5:15 P.M. 


5.0 


Bathroom. 


11:30 A.M. 


2.0 


Cooking Luncheon. 


6:00 P.M. 


5.0 


Washing Dinner 


12:00 M. 


5.0 


Bathroom. 






Dishes. 




Remainder for Baths. 



"How much hot water can I get with a heater of such a size?" 
is a question commonly asked, but ''hot water" is an indefinite 
thing. To answer the question one must know the temperature 
of the *'hot water" wanted. Bath water at 104 degrees F. is 
quite hot enough for most people. Water for washing dishes 
should be about 150 degrees F. If hot water is supplied at this 
or a higher temperature, cooler water can readily be had by 
mixing the hot water with cold water. (An excessive temperature 
at the faucet causes waste of heat.) 



WATER HEATING 



185 



The familiar question, ''How long does it take to get hot 
water?" is like the previous question, "How much hot water 
can I get?" To get the answer one must always know the 
temperature. 

The temperatures of 104 degrees F. and 150 degrees F. have 
been previously referred to as suitable for bath and dish-washing 
respectively. Show the time required to get various amounts of 
hot water with several sizes of heating units. The results would 
be greatly changed by variations in the temperature of the feed 
water — the warmer the feed water, the more hot water can be 
obtained with a given amount of electric energy. 

TABLE SHOWING EFFICIENCY AND GALLONS 
PER 24 HOURS OF WATER HEATED TO 104° F. 

(36-gal. tank covered with 1" hair felt insulation on tank 
and 1" magnesia covering circulation piping. Cold 
water, 39° F. Faucet close to tank.) 



Kind of 
System 


Kind of Equipment 


Watts 


Effi- 
ciency 


No. Gals. Hot 

Water 

Available at 

104° F. per 

24 Hours 


Storage 

Storage 

Storage 

Intermittent 
Intermittent 


Outside circulation 

Outside circulation . . . 

"Clamp-on" 

Outside circulation . . . 
Outside circulation . . . 


600 
1000 

750 
3000 
5000 


82% 
76% 
78% 
73% 
69% 


75 
117 

89 
330 
525 



Types of Heaters 

Choosing Equipment, Having decided on the system — 
whether Storage or Intermittent — there remains the question of 
the proper equipment to use. The equipment may be classified 
under three applications: 

1. Outside-Circulation Type Heater 

2. Inside-Circulation Type Heater 

3. ''Clamp-on" Type Heater 



186 
















ELECTRIC WATER HEATERS 






















































































































































^ 


-^ 


-^ 
























/ 














/ 


























^ 
























1 




/ 


r- 












y 




















^ 
































1 




/ 












/ 


















^ 


^ 
































;■' 




^1 










/ 


/ 
















^ 






































il 


» 


;/ 








s 


/ 














,^ 


/ 








































J 


^ 








/ 


/ 














y^ 










































i 


/ 


if 








'/ 










J 


/ 










































^^ 




■ 


A 


1 






^/ 










,/ 


^ 
















































t 


^ 


' 




^' 










j,0° 


y 














































>» 
"*"^, 




«'/ 


w 




,* 


{ 








^/ 


'' 
















































i^jVl 






y 




'/ 






|( 


^:^ 


























































' 


/ 








> 






















































iO 








/ 






/ 






























































/ 






/ 


























































io 






' 




/ 
































































7 


/ 


y- 


































































/ 
































































































_ 




_ 


_ 






_ 


LJ 


D 










_ 


_ 


_ 


_ 


__ 




_ 



// It It, IB 10 Zl IV it xe 30 31 3V 

T/M£ - HOL/RS 



Chart showing time required to heat water to 104° F. 

The first two are applied to both Storage and Intermittent Sys- 
tems; the "clamp-on" is satisfactory for the storage system only. 

Outside-Circulation Type Water Heater, This type is shown 
on page 179 for both storage and intermittent. The water 
heater is connected by piping, outside any standard tank. It is 
easily applied to a tank already in the house without any change 
in the tank itself, but, of course, it requires the services of a 
plumber to make the pipe connections. 

Because hot water is lighter than cold water, it rises, and the 
water automatically circulates through the tank and water 
heater in the direction of the arrows shown. By delivering the 
hot water from the heater to the top of the tank, where it natur- 
ally accumulates, it is not necessary to wait to heat the entire 
tank of hot water when only a small quantity is wanted. This 























TYPES OF HEATERS 


















1 


87 
















































































































































































































/ 












/* 






























,A 


















/ 










/ 






























,Y 


















/ 










/ 






























y 




















/ 










/ 




























y 






















/ 








1 


/ 


























y 
























1 










/ 


























y 


























/ 






\ 


/ 
























y 


















> 








^. 









/" 
























y 






















^ 






( 


)/ 




,.< 


4 


/ 




















y 


y 






























o' 


/ 






/ 




















y 








































/ 
















f 


^ 


y 




































/ 




/ 
















\ 


v> 






































/ 




/ 


















y 








































/ 


/ 
















/' 


y 










































/ 


/ 














y 














































/ 












^ 


y 


























































z 
































-J 










[_ 







f> 7 6 $ JO n /x /i /y /s 

T//^£r - HOURS 
Chart showing time required to heat water to 150° F. 



effect of quickly accumulating a small quantity of hot water in 
the top of the tank can be increased by restricting the flow in 
the circulation piping. In illustration on page 179, service cocks 
are shown on each side of the heater. Partly close the lower one ; 
the result is that the water passes more slowly over the heating 
unit and is therefore heated to a higher temperature. Illustration 
on page 181 shows graphically how the water in the top of the 
tank is much hotter than the average temperature of the water. 
(Be careful not to adjust to such a small orifice that steam is 
formed.) A restrictor cannot be recommended if the water has 
much of a tendency to form scale, because in such a case, the 
orifice in the service cock will quickly clog and the unit will 
coat itself with scale in a short time. 



188 



ELECTRIC WATER HEATERS 




Inside-circulation type electric 
water heater. 



Inside- Circulation Type 
Wa ter Hea ter . Illustration here 
shows the immersion unit in- 
stalled inside a special tank in 
such a way as to get the water 
circulation as shown by the ar- 
rows. The double -walled pipe 
with air jacket around the im- 
mersion unit causes the desired 
circulation and accumulation of 
hot water in the top of the tank. 
The chief advantage of this is 
that water heater and tank are 
a self-contained unit with no 
exterior circulation piping. It is 
slightly more efficient and much 
neater in appearance than the 
outside circulation type. 

The special field of the inside- 
circulation type water heater is 
for installation in new buildings 
where there is no question of 
utilizing old coal or gas -heated 
tanks. Like the outside -circu- 
lation water heater, the water 
circulation can be restricted by 
reducing the flow through the 
short piping under the tank. To 
remove scale from the unit, the 
water is first drawn from the 
tank and the four bolts removed 



TYPES OF HEATERS 189 



from the flange near the head of the unit. The unit is removed 
and the scale cracked off with a hammer. Always install the tank 
high enough above the floor so that the unit is easily removed. 

This form of heater is not to be confused with a mere immersion 
tank heater which many people suppose to be quite efficient. If 
an immersion heater is stuck into the side or bottom of a tank 
without any special provision for circulating the water, it will 
take a very long time to get hot water because the tank will 
heat so gradually. 

In the inside-circulation water heater, the circulation is effected 
by means of a double -walled, air-jacketed pipe inside the tank. 
The heater is placed inside this circulation pipe, and as the 
water is heated it rises to the top of the tank and accumulates 
there; the air-jacket on the pipe acting as a heat insulator and 
prevent the ascending column of hot water from being chilled. 
In this way the double circulation pipe shown inside the tank 
causes a similar circulation to that of the single pipe outside the 
tank in the outside circulation system. 

**Clamp-on" Type Water Heater, This form of heater, as 
shown on page 190, is readily installed on the tank already in 
the house, without any change in the tank, and does not even 
require the services of a plumber. It is simply *'clamped-on" the 
lower part of the tank — hence its name. The heat is applied 
through the wall of the tank, which, of course, must be well lagged 
or insulated. A layer of asbestos felt at least three-quarters of an 
inch thick, is placed over the heating unit only and the usual tank 
insulation laced over the entire tank, heater and asbestos. The 
layer of non-combustible asbestos insulation is between the unit 
and ordinary tank insulation to prevent the latter burning. As 
there is an extra thickness at the unit, the outer insulation jacket 



190 



ELECTRIC WATER HEATER 



S£/i\/fC£ COCH 



HOT W ATE ^ 
PUTLEr 




'Clamp-on" type electric 
water heater. 



should have part of its material 
cut away so as to allow the jacket 
to meet properly, and also to 
prevent an unsightly bulge at 
the unit. The absence of piping 
makes a very attractive in- 
stallation. 

The formation of scale inside 
the tank with such a heater is 
so slow that it will probably 
never cause trouble because the 
heat is distributed over such a 
large area at a moderate temper- 
ature. In case any amount of 
scale should form after years of 
use, the position of the heater 
could be changed on the tank. 

There are no special means for 
circulating the water ; therefore, 
to heat any water in the tank, 
all must be heated. Thus the 
water will only heat gradually 
and this form of heater is one of 
the best for the Storage System. 

The construction of the heater 
is extremely simple, consisting 
of a flat coil of sheath wire. The 
heater carries a terminal box 
similar to that used with the 
circulation heater, and is gener- 
ally furnished with or without 



TYPES OF HEATERS 



191 



snap switch. Clamping straps and bolts are furnished with the 
heater, adjustable to fit any size of tank. 

Importance of Heat Insulation, The effect of lagging the 
tank is so great that electric water heating is not feasible without 
proper insulation. An electric water heater must never be in- 
stalled unless the tank is well heat -insulated. 

The following comparative figures, given for the Storage 
System, illustrate the importance of lagging for all systems : 





600 
Watts 


1000 
Watts 


Efficiency of lagged tank, \" hair felt insulation 
(Storage System) outside circulation equipment 

Efficiency of same tank without lagging (Storage 
System) outside circulation equipment 


82% 
48% 


76% 
46% 



Reducing the above figures to watts, it is obvious that by using 
an unlagged tank, as compared to one properly lagged, one would 
waste 214 watts steadily day and night with a 600-watt heater. 
With a 1000-watt heater, 360 watts would be wasted. 



Scale Formation. Some localities are especially troubled by 
the excessive tendency of the water to form scale in water 
heaters — notably the Inter-Mountain District, and especially 
Utah and Nevada. Generally speaking, the eastern part of the 
United States is not seriously troubled, but it is impossible to 
make any broad geographical classification. Each central station 
will look into this question of scale formation for itself. In some 
cities in the West where there are two sources of water supply, 
it is found that one source of water may give serious trouble, 
while the other is comparatively free from scale-forming ten- 
dencies. 



192 ELECTRIC WATER HEATER 

Where much scale is present, a heater should be selected which 
may be easily cleaned and which is not easily damaged by the 
process. Experience has demonstrated that a water heater should 
not be made like a tube with the heating unit 
surrounding the water. Illustration here shows 
how scale collects in such a heater, from which it 
cannot be removed. 

In all but the worst conditions, the scale pro- 

j blem is practically solved by the immersion 

J unit — whether inside-circulation or outside-cir- 

\ culation — which can be readily removed from 

1 the water heater and the scale cracked off with 

a hammer. With the immersion unit the scale 

accumulates on the outside instead of the inside, 

and this makes the difference between easy 

cleaning and impossible cleaning. Of course, 

the scale must not be allowed to accumulate too 

thickly, for while the operating efficiency of the 

heater is not appreciably affected, inasmuch as 

\l k '( the heater is surrounded by water, yet the 

|| I II heating unit will have to operate at a higher 

1 1 I I ji temperature to force the heat through the wall 

of scale and this will have a tendency to shorten 

ZT"J:onths' the life of the unit. It is evident that long life 

tlon in'^TiT- from an immersion unit cannot be expected if 

*'"h%aTerf^'' it is covcrcd with a thick layer of scale, because 

the scale is a heat insulator. 

An immersion unit, in order to be satisfactory in use with 

scale -forming water, must also be of such rugged and simple 

mechanical construction as to stand the process of cleaning, and 

to be easily cleaned. One mechanically weak would be damaged 



TYPES OF HEATERS 193 



if not destroyed, and one with irregular surfaces would be im- 
possible to clean. A heater should also be selected that does not 
operate at too high a density of watts per square inch of heating 
surface because it would then accumulate scale too rapidly. 

The "clamp-on" type of heater is recommended when there is 
serious trouble from scale. This kind of unit heats the water from 
so large a surface that no trouble has been experienced from 
scale formation. 



"We are glad to report that up to April 8th, 
1918, the number of ranges installed on 
our system is now approximately 2,000 
with approximately 1,200 water heaters. 
In other words, 60% of «our installations 
are all electric kitchens. During the cam- 
paign starting January 1st, 1918, and ending 
April 1st, 1918, we sold 324 ranges and 533 
water heaters. The estimated revenue on 
the 324 ranges is $14,300 and on the 533 
water heaters is $14,262 or a net gain in 
the range and water heater business for 
the three months' period of $28,562. The 
water heater installations are the things 
which count as the capital expenditure is 
really made for the ranges and the revenue 
from the water heaters which nearly equals 
the revenue from the ranges, is received 
without additional capital expenditure.'* 

Af. C. Osborn, Washington Water 
Power Company, Spokane. 



CHAPTER XI 

COMMERCIAL COOKING APPARATUS 

Electric Bread Baking 

Development. The electric bread baking oven is the most 
efficient oven of its kind on the market. Aggressive central 
stations have realized its great possibilities as a load builder and 
revenue producer and have earnestly solicited and secured this 
class of business. Today electric bread baking ovens are in 
operation throughout the United States. These installations are 
in bakeries, hotels, restaurants, hospitals, clubs and other various 
kinds of public and private institutions. 

Advantages. The advantages of electric baking are: The 
superior quality of the product and the advertising value and 
prestige of operating a modern and sanitary bakery, with the 
resultant increased business. The advantages of the electric 
bread oven itself are described in the next subject. 

Breads and pastries come from the electric oven purer in 
quality, finer in texture, more uniform in size and more evenly 
browned because flame, fumes, soot, brick dust and air currents 
are eliminated. There is a further advantage in the saving of 
material. Mixtures may be smaller to get the same quantity of 
baked goods because through the elimination of air currents, the 
bread and pastry does not dry as much as in a fuel oven. Thus 
in mixing dough, an allowance for moisture evaporation is not 
necessary. In a shop where a large amount of baking is done 
each day, the saving is surprisingly large. 

194 



ELECTRIC BREAD BAKING 



195 



^fe;gC 




Complete electric kitchen installed in a large cafeteria in the West. Note 

the small space occupied by the electric oven which does all the baking 

for this large restaurant. 



For example : In Shay's Cafeteria in Salt Lake City, the bakers 
find it possible to cut down the size of their Parker House rolls 
from four to three-and-a-half inches in dough size and eliminate 
the milk in cakes. They find that the same results are obtained 
in the electric oven without these materials as were produced in 
the old gas oven when the rolls were larger and milk was used. 

Electrically baked bread is quality bread because it is baked by 
the cleanest and most perfect method. The electrical method not 
only wins the housewife who buys bakery bread but it wins the 
more fastidious woman who does her own baking. When a bakery 



196 COMMERCIAL COOKING APPARATUS 

or restaurant installs a bake oven, it has a very logical reason for 
advertising this new method. 

Many installations have either a permanent window exhibit 
of the bake oven or mention electrically-cooked food on the menu 
and in their advertising. Experts have conservatively estimated 
that it is worth at least $100 a month to any fair-sized hotel, 
restaurant or bakery to advertise that its food is cooked by the 
electrical method. When a person reads ''electrically-cooked" it 
instantly brings to their mind cleanliness and perfection in results. 

People go out of their way to get good food and hotels and 
restaurants which have installed electrical appliances have been 
known to draw trade from other establishments. 

Bread Baking Ovens 

Capacities. The commercial electric bread baking oven is made 
in many sizes, from the small portable oven with a capacity of 
30 one-pound loaves of bread to the big brick oven with a capa- 
city of 600 one-pound loaves at one baking. 

Electric ovens are constructed in cabinet form and are smaller 
in size than "fuel" ovens of the same capacity. Small-sized ovens 
are generally recommended by salesmen so the baking surface 
will not be larger than absolutely necessary. It is much more 
economical to maintain a baking temperature in a small oven 
and bake three batches of dough than it is to heat a large oven 
for one batch. This is one of the factors in the economy of the 
electric oven and a sales point which should be thoroughly 
studied by central station men. 

Advantages. Advantages of the oven are: Simplicity of oper- 
ation, absolute control, perfect heat distribution, saving in labor, 
time, floor space and fuel storage bins and the most efficient 
utilization of heat. The ovens are operated by three-heat 



BREAD BAKING OVENS 



197 




Modern type of large electric bread-baking oven. The capacity of this 

oven is 600 one-pound loaves of bread at one time. Connected load is 

approximately 80 kw-hrs. 

switches and any desired regulation of temperature is quickly 
secured. The handling of fuel and ashes is eliminated and the 
necessity of keeping the fire alive all night for the early morning 
baking is unnecessary. 

Current is used only when the oven is baking. The heat is 
not "killed" after each batch and no time is lost in re-heating. 
As soon as one batch of bread is removed another batch can be 
loaded immediately. As the ''firing" is eliminated and fuel 
handling and flue cleaning are avoided, there is an appreciable 
saving in labor. 



198 COMMERCIAL COOKING APPARATUS 

For example: In Shay's Cafeteria in Salt Lake City, which 
serves 1500 persons a day, their former gas oven required two 
bakers and an assistant. After the electric oven was installed, 
only one baker and an assistant were needed and approximately 
300 percent greater capacity was secured. 

The entire oven is under absolute control at all times. No 
dampers have to be operated. As there is no dust nor dirty 
flues, the electric oven is well adapted for display baking in show 
windows and booths in department stores, exhibits and similar 
places. 

As the construction is usually in deck form, the electric oven 
occupies one-quarter to one-half the floor space of the brick fuel 
oven. Owing to its comparatively light weight, no special, heavy 
construction of the building is required. 

Commercial Installations 

Progress. Electric restaurant apparatus has been developed to 
such an extent that commercial cookery is today on a sound 
business basis both from the standpoint of the user and the 
central station. There are hundreds of installations throughout 
the United States. As a rule, they are in the more prominent 
and progressive hotels and restaurants. Not only have hotels 
and restaurants adopted electric cookery but also clubs, colleges, 
domestic science classes, hospitals and other public institutions. 

Advantages. The advantages of commercial cookery are the 
same as in domestic cookery but there are other favorable 
factors in the commercial installation. For example: The elec- 
tric appliance eliminates the continuous fire for an occasional 
order. Current is used only when cooking is done and the heat 
is applied directly to the food.^ 



COMMERCIAL INSTALLATIONS 



199 




Commercial electric range installation in a large apartment house kitchen 
in the South. Colored people, too, delight in cooking electrically. The 
steam table in the foreground is also electrically heated. 



Commercial kitchens equipped with apparatus using electricity 
are cooler than those using gas or solid fuel. The apparatus in- 
sures greater cleanliness and takes up less room which is particu- 
larly advantageous in high-rent districts where kitchen space 
must be limited. But the most important advantage of electric 
baking and cooking is the superior product secured. See Better 
Cooked Food, page 135. 

The electrical method is particularly adapted to high -temper- 
ature operations such as broiling, frying, roasting and baking all 
of which are accomplished rapidly and with more efficiency and 
certainty than is possible with the old methods. 

There is also a saving in the shrinkage of meat which is very 



200 



COMMERICAL COOKING APPARATUS 



appreciable. For example: In a cafeteria in California where all 
the cooking is done electrically, it is estimated that the saving in 
the shrinkage of meat alone pays for the cost of the lighting 
and cooking current which averages more than $100 a month. 
Then, too, there is the advertising value which is described under 
Electric Bread Baking on page 194. 

Recent Roasting Test, The following test was recently made 
in the kitchens of J. Lyons and Company, one of the large res- 
taurateurs of London, England. The cooking was done in an 
electric oven by a chef who was inexperienced with this apparatus. 
Four sirloins of rather fatty beef were used. Note that the average 
loss in shrinkage was only 1.49 ounces per pound or 9.31 per cent. 



OVEN OPERATIONS 



Time 


Meter Watts Temp. Remarks 


11.05 


2635 5250 48 Switched "Full" 


11.25 


5250 342 4 joints in oven 


11.30 


5250 324 


12.10 


5250 418 


12.25 


2642 2960 440 Switched "Medium" 


1.0) 


2960 400 


1.55 


2960 400 Removed No. 4 joint 


2.35 


2960 410 Removed No. 2 joint 


2.45 


2649 2960 400 Removed Nos. 1 and 3 joints 




Switched "Off" 




FOUR SIRLOINS OF BEEF 


Initial Weight Final Weight Average Loss Remands 


No. 1 Joint 34 lbs. 12 ozs. 29 lbs. 4 ozs. 15.8% Drippings 


No. 2 Joint 28 lbs. ozs. 22 lbs. 5 ozs. 20.2% weighed 


No. 3 Joint 36 lbs. 8 ozs. 29 lbs. 5 ozs. 19.6% 12 lbs. 


No. 4 Joint 26 lbs. 4 ozs. 21 lbs. 1 ozs. 19.6% 



125 lbs. 8 ozs 101 lbs. 15 ozs. 18.8% 



COMMERICAL INSTALLATIONS 



201 




Complete electric kitchen installed in a large Detroit Hospital. Such an in- 
stallation not only includes electric ranges but bake ovens, bread-mixing 
machinery, electric griddles, kettles, broilers, toasters and similar ap- 
paratus. 



Restaurant Cooking Apparatus 

Kinds on Market. The commercial cooking appliances in 
general use today are: 



Restaurant Ranges 

Large Baking Ovens 

Toasters 

Broilers 

Plate and Food Warmers 



Frying Griddles 
Steam Table Heaters 
Coffee Urn Heaters 
Frying Kettles 
Waffle Irons 



Planning Installations. The success of a commercial instal- 
lation depends upon the selection of the apparatus, the rate 
charged for the electric current and the care with which the 
equipment is operated. Before ordering the devices it is well for 



202 COMMERCIAL COOKING APPARATUS 

the central station engineer to assist the manager of the restaur- 
ant in estimating just what size range, bake oven, steam table 
and other equipment is required. If the restaurateur does it 
himself the mistake will perhaps be made of ordering appliances 
that are too large and consume an unnecessary amount of current. 
An important factor in the success of the installation is the 
chef or operator. In some cases he is unfriendly in the beginning 
to this new method and will do everything within his power to 
oppose its use. The most common way of deliberately discour- 
aging the use of electrically-heated appliances is to leave the 
current on "High" when the apparatus is not in use. At the 
end of the month the bill is much higher than the central station 
man estimated and the showing may lead to the discontinuance 
of the use of the apparatus. So it is important to earn the good- 
will of the chef. 

Rates and Revenue. Commercial cooking appliances provide 
a very good load factor because they are used almost continu- 
ously from early in the morning until late at night. The business 
is very desirable and central stations can afford to make very 
attractive rates for it. The rate must of course be determined 
by each central station and should be based on the connected 
load, the average demand and the amount of revenue possible. 
For example : A large hotel using many thousand kilowatt hours 
per month should naturally be granted a lower rate than a small 
restaurant with a few lights and one small range. No represen- 
tative rates are available because they vary with every instal- 
lation. They are believed however to average between Ij/^ cents 
and 23^ cents per kilowatt hour for this class of business. 



ADDENDUM I 

ELECTRICAL COOKING EQUIPMENT 
IN RESTAURANT KITCHENS 

An article prepared by the Society for 
Electrical Development for publication in 
''The American Restaurant'^ magazine. 

During the years from 1916 to 1920, the records of one manu- 
facturer building kitchen equipment operated by coal and gas 
fuel as well as electrical equipment show that his sales of elec- 
trical equipment increased, respectively, to 2.5, 4.5, 7.0, 14.5 and 
48.0 times those made in 1915. This record, surprising as it is, 
is not dissimilar to those made by other manufacturers of high- 




International Company Baking School, Baltimore, Md., all equipment is electrical. 

202a 



202b RESTAURANT RANGES 

grade and efficient heavy duty equipment. Growing familiarity 
with the requirements for economical operation of heavy duty 
equipment, first by the manufacturer and second by the user of 
the equipment, has made such records possible and has firmly 
established electrical cooking equipment as a present-day 
essential for the economically operated restaurant. 

Electric ranges, bake ovens, grills, kettles and the many other 
varieties of kitchen equipment can be operated with greater 
thermal efficiency than can similar equipment heated by coal or 
gas, so that the operating economy of the electrical apparatus 
compares favorably with that of fuel heated apparatus. The 
fundamental reason for this is that the heat generated can be 
much more successfully conserved — a far greater proportion 
productively utilized— than in the case of either gas or coal heat. 
The familiar principles of the fireless cooker — that is, the con- 
servation to the utmost of the available heat — can be and are 
taken advantage of in properly constructed electrical cooking 
equipment. Furthermore, electrical heat can be closely localized 
and is under instant control, both manually and automatically. 

Restaurant Ranges. The electric range is probably the first 
piece of heavy duty equipment considered in connection with a 
kitchen installation, although the range, being a composite tool, 
in that it is used for a variety of cooking operations, does not 
lend itself to all the refinements which more specialized equip- 
ment intended for one operation — such as a bake oven — may 
include. The range, as developed for restaurant use, consists of 
one or more units, each with an oven and several hot plates, of 
heavy, rugged construction, with the ovens thoroughly insulated 
against loss of heat. The oven is furnished usually with upper 
and lower heating elements, of 3 or 4 kilowatt capacity each and 



RESTAURANT RANGES 



202c 




Electric restaurant oven for baking rolls. 



the hot plates — generally four in number — with 4 kilowatt 
heating elements controlled by independent switches, making a 
total connected load for each complete range unit of about 22 
kilowatts. The switches controlling the various heating elements 
also regulate the wattage consumption in three stages — high, 
medium and low heat — so that a wide range of graduation of 
temperature is quickly and easily secured. In fact, the tempera- 
ture regulation may be made automatic. 

The oven of the electric range of approved design, with its 
heavy, well-balanced and thoroughly insulated door, is virtually 
heat-tight, the radiation loss being reduced to a negligible 
amount, so that when once brought to heat it consumes there- 
after very little current. The hot plates are also highly efficient, 



202d BAKE OVENS 



for their heat is not only under instant control but is definitely 
localized, so that with well-fitting cooking utensils little of the 
heat generated is dissipated. 

In economy of operation, the electric range has proved its 
merit in perhaps no more striking manner than in household 
use where its service is necessarily very much more intermittent 
than in a restaurant kitchen. The average current consumption 
for the thousands of domestic electric ranges scattered all over 
the country — ranges upon which the entire cooking for the 
family is performed — is about 125 kilowatt hours per month for 
a family of five. That is, between two-tenths and three-tenths of 
a kilowatt hour per meal, per person. In the restaurant kitchen, 
the average cost of current used for preparing the average 
complete meal per person is less than one-half cent. 

Bake Ovens, The electric bake oven is an example of a one- 
service device which exemplifies perhaps even more forcibly the 
value and economy of electricity as a cooking medium. Today 
the electric bake oven is unquestionably the most perfect baking 
chamber, rendering the greatest service for the least expenditure 
of labor and time and producing the best baked products at an 
extremely low cost. Extravagant as these statements may 
appear, they are not exaggerated, for the electric bake oven 
permits the maximum utilization and conservation of the heat 
generated. Each compartment has a heating element above and 
below operated by an independent switch regulating the tempera- 
ture with extreme sensitiveness. Each compartment is thor- 
oughly insulated against dissipation of heat and is practically 
air-tight, so that the baking is conducted under conditions of 
constant and evenly distributed heat without loss of vapor or 
volatile ingredients of the food. 



COMMERCIAL COOKING APPARATUS 



202e 



Bake ovens with capacities of from thirty up to six hundred 
one-pound loaves of bread per bake are on the market at the 
present time, the larger ovens being frequently of the stationary 
brick built-in type and the smaller ones of the portable box 
variety. It will take from forty-five to ninety minutes to bring 
a cold oven up to a baking heat of 400 or 500 degrees, F., with 
the heating elements on high, after which the maintenance of 
any desired temperature entails the use of very little current. 
A thirty-loaf oven has a maximum consumption of only 5 kilo- 
watts, while the 600-loaf oven has a limiting consumption of 
80 kilowatts. An oven of the latter size, 600 loaves per bake, in a 
bakery at Ocean City, N. J., turns out an average of about 
10,000 pounds of bread a day. 
Broilers and other Appli- 
ances, Another one-service 
device that has found great 
favor in the restaurant kitchen 
is the electric broiler. The 
usual sizes of this equipment, 
rated in maximum current 
consumptions, are from 5 to 
15 kilowatt. Exactly what this 
means is well indicated by the 
cooking capacity, for example, 
of a 5-kilowatt broiler. Such a 
unit has a capacity of about 
thirty-six 2 -pound steaks per 
hour and a broiling area 
sufficient to cook 12 pounds 
of steak 13^ inches thick at 

. Electric griddle operated in service pantry 

one time. of a New Hampshire hotel 




202f COST OF ELECTRIC COOKERY 

Griddles, toasters, plate warmers and an almost endless 
variety of kettles, urns, special stoves and miscellaneous kitchen 
utensils could be mentioned, but the foregoing, exemplifying 
both composite and one-service equipment, should suffice to 
show that electrical cooking equipment has well passed the 
experimental stage and must be investigated, at least, by every 
progressive restaurateur. 

Costs of Electric Cooking, Operating costs are always of 
interest, however, particularly when comparisons can be made 
with familiar records. An excellent example is the experience of 
a hotel in Maine where electric kitchen and bakery equipment 
was installed to replace coal and gas burning equipment. The 
installation consisted of three electric ranges, one bake oven, a 
broiler, griddle, toaster and plate warmer. The cost of operating 
the electric equipment for the first month amounted to $215 and 
for the first twenty days of the second month to $110, indicating 
that the average monthly cost will probably be well under $200. 
Prior to the installation, the average monthly fuel bill for the 
superseded fuel-burning equipment was as follows: 

Coal $175.00 

Charcoal 38.40 

Gas 46.50 



$259.90 per month 

It will be noted that no charge is included in these figures for 
disposal of ashes, extra labor, cleaning and the numerous losses 
which cannot be entirely avoided when cooking by fuel. 

An installation in a southern cafeteria where about 3,000 
meals are served a day, and where the average customer's meal 



COST OF ELECTRIC COOKING 202g 

check is only about 65 cents, is also worthy of note. The in- 
stallation consists of four electric ranges, two bake ovens, one 
griddle and one electric toaster, making a total connected load 
of 149 kilowatts. The average demand is about 100 kilowatts 
and the average monthly consumption about 25,000 kilowatt 
hours. As the rate charged for electricity is 1.8 cents per kilowatt- 
hour, the monthly bill for electricity averages $450. The original 
cost of the installation was $4,000, so with a monthly income of 
some $58,500 the investment can hardly be considered excessive. 
Assuming 75,000 meals cooked per month, the cost per meal 
would be 0.6 cent. 



CHAPTER XII 

GENERAL RANGE INFORMATION 
Standardized Names of Range Parts 



This nomenclature contains only the parts which are included 
in the general construction of all standard makes of electric 
ranges. It has been approved by the range manufacturers. 

Electric Range Heating units of the cooking top — either open 
Surface Unit or enclosed type. 

Simmering Unit Low wattage unit of the cookery top. 

Resistance Wire Heating wire of the surface and oven units. 

Sheath Wire Metal-sheathed insulated resistance wire used 

in the construction of the enclosed-type sur- 
face and oven units of certain makes of 
ranges. 

Surface Unit Grooved porcelain or composition brick which 

Brick holds the heating wire of open-type surface 

units. 

Insulating Composition cup which supports and insulates 

Receptacle the surface unit. Certain makes of ranges. 

Surface Coil Supporting frame of the heating wire of a re- 

Frame flected-heat type surface unit. 

^ 203 



204 



GENERAL RANGE INFORMATION 



Asbestos Wire 

Range Terminal 
Block 

Cooking Top 
Drip Pan 
Automatic Range 



Oven Unit 
Baffle Plate 



Oven Terminal 
Block 



Oven Terminal 
Receptacle 

Oven Vent 



Oven Lining 
Oven Insulation 

Oven Racks 



Asbestos insulated wire used in the interior of 
the range. 

Porcelain or composition block used in con- 
necting the service leads to range wiring. 

Metal top or flat section of the range where 
the open cookery is done. 

Sheet metal pan used to catch drippings, 
crumbs and other waste. 

Range in which either or both the surface and 
oven units may be turned on by a clock and 
off by a thermostat operating through the 
medium of a circuit breaker. 

Heating unit of the oven. 

Metal plate placed over the bottom oven unit 
to distribute the heat. Certain makes of 
ranges only. 

Insulating block which carries the terminal 
wires through the oven wall. Certain makes 
of ranges. 

Receptacle in which the oven unit plug is 
inserted. In certain makes only. 

Small opening generally located in the back 
wall of the oven for the escape of excessive 
moisture with a minimum of loss of heat. 

Interior metal walls of the oven. 

Material packed between the exterior and in- 
terior metal walls. 



STANDARDIZED NAME OF RANGE PARTS 



205 



Oven Ledges Back supports on the sides of the oven and 

broiler compartments. 
Heat Indicator 
Oven Door 
Door Handle 
Door Catch 
Door Spring 
Door Hinge 
Broiler Compartment 
Broiler Unit 
Broiler Vent 
Broiler Pan 
Broiler Pan Rack 

Conservation Extra compartment in some makes of ranges 

Compartment used for the long-time cooking of such foods 
as soups, stews, pot roasts and baked beans. 
Thickly insulated; heated by a low wattage 
unit and is without a vent. In other words, 
it is a fireless cooker attached to the range. 

Compartment used to warm foods and dishes. 
Located either above or below the oven from 
which it derives its heat. 

Switch controlling the individual surface, oven 
and broiler units. 

Metal panel in front and just below the cook- 
ing top which is the backing and support of 
the switches. 

Vertical section which supports the top shelf. 

Horizontal shelf above the cooking surface 
which is supported by the back splasher. 

Shelf at the end of the cooking top. 

Support of the back splasher and top shelf. 



Warming 
Compartment 

Snap Switch 

Switchboard 



Back Splasher 
Top Shelf 

Side Shelf 
Shelf Bracket 



206 



GENERAL RANGE INFORMATION 



Oven Brackets Side supports of the elevated oven. 

Side Splasher Splasher at the side of the cabinet oven. 

Fuse Box Compartment which encloses the fuses. 

Fuse Block Block upon which the fuses are mounted. 

Fuse Screw or cartridge type fuse. 

Legs 

Bottom Shelj Lower shelf attached to the legs. 

Pilot Light Small lamp on range which lights when any 

surface, oven or broiler is turned on. 

Master Switch Large enclosed switch installed on range or 
kitchen wall which connects and disconnects 
the main-line circuit. 



Insurance Requirements 

National Electrical Code. The National Electrical Code is 
issued bi-annually by the National Board of Fire Underwriters. 
The rules embodied therein are the result of many years' exper- 
ience and study, drawn up by a committee of the National Fire 
Protection Association, an organization which has the active 
co-operation of a large number of interested organizations. Those 
co-operating in matters electrical and represented by members on 
the committee are: 

American Electric Railway Association 
American Institute of Electrical Engineers 
Associated Factory Mutual Fire Insurance Companies 
National Association of Electrical Inspectors 
National Board of Fire Underwriters 
National Electric Light Association 
National Electrical Contractor's Association 



INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 207 

This code prescribes only minimum requirements allowable 
and it is always better to provide wider margin. Its rules permit 
only the use of approved fittings and material and its provisions 
are enforced by practically all municipal and insurance inspectors. 

Underwriters' Laboratories, The Underwriters' Laboratories 
is an organization whose object is to secure for the user the best 
obtainable opinion on the merits of appliances, devices, machines 
and materials in respect to the life and fire hazards, and accident 
prevention. 

Approved Electrical Fittings, The Underwriters' Laboratories 
have prepared complete standards for electrical fittings. All 
fittings which have been examined and found to comply with 
these standards are published by this organization in a book 
called "List of Approved Electrical Fittings." 

Society's Range Service 

Editorial Aid, In the past two years, a number of domestic 
science and home management books, magazine articles and ad- 
vertisements have been published containing incorrect and mis- 
leading statements which did much harm to the national develop- 
ment of electric cookery. 

This subject is a comparatively new one and many writers are 
not fully familiar with all the advantages of electric cookery, 
the construction, operation and service of the electric range, the 
technicalities of rates and other points which have an important 
bearing on electric cookery. 

The Society for Electrical Development has electric range 
specialists on its staff who are glad to co-operate (without charge) 



208 GENERAL RANGE INFORMATION 

with writers, editors and advertising agencies on such articles, 
giving them the benefit of this knowledge and experience. 

Rate Statistics. The Society's Statistical Department has the 
most complete record of cooking rates and other range data in 
the world. This file is corrected to date. 

Merchandising Service. The Society's Merchandising Service 
Department is open to central station, manufacturer, jobber and 
contractor-dealer members. It assists them in their individual 
merchandising and advertising problems. 

This department prepares electrical advertising copy of all 
kinds, layouts and complete campaigns of any size; draws de- 
signs for booths, floats and special window displays; plans store 
interiors; writes speeches, lectures, magazine and newspaper 
articles on all electrical subjects. 



DO NOT say a fuse has "blown" or 
"burned out." Both are alarming 
terms and create a fear in the mind of 
the housewife. It is much better to say the 
fuse has "melted" or the fuse has simply 
"cut off the current." 



ADDENDUM II 

RELATIVE COST OF COOKING BY 
ELECTRICITY, GAS AND COAL 

While the advantages of electric cookery lie chiefly in its 
convenience, cleanliness, coolness and accuracy of results, and 
in the reduction of the shrinkage of electrically-cooked meats, 
still there is an insistent demand for information as to the cost 
of electric cooking as compared with the use of gas and coal. 
Unfortunately, there are available no data, generally recognized 
to be accurate, on the cost of fuel cooking. It is possible, there- 
fore, only to present the results of such tests as have already 
been, calling attention, whenever possible, to assumptions or 
data which appear to be inaccurate. 

Many investigations have been made on the comparative cost 
of cooking by electricity, gas and coal, in the majority of the 
cases by professors in colleges, who, unfortunately, have con- 
ducted the tests in their laboratories, their results having little 
bearing on home economics. 

Of course, theoretically, coal has from 11,000 to 15,000 B. t. u. 
per pound, artificial gas from 500 to 600 B. t. u. per cubic foot 
and electricity, 3,412 B. t. u. per kw.-hr., but there is a vast 
difference in the efficiency in the use of these various media. 

One careful investigator has determined that in ordinary 

household cooking, only 2% of the heat value of the coal used 

in the kitchen range under the usual conditions, reaches the 

food; with gas, from 15 to 25%; with electricity, from 50 to 60% 

^ 209 



210 KANSAS AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE TESTS 

on the open top boiling units and from 80 to 90% in the oven. 

By a careful series of tests made by the engineer of one of the 
large gas and electric utilities, it was found that electricity at 
7 cents per kw.-hr., when used in the oven, was more economical 
than gas at 80 cents a thousand cubic feet. 

As against these figures, however, there are the tests made in 
the college laboratories before mentioned. 

R. G. Kloeffler of the Kansas State Agricultural College of 
Manhattan, Kan., in a bulletin issued by the college, gives a 
menu schedule of meals for an entire week and shows that with : 

Electricity at 3 cents per kw-hr., a consumption of 20.7 kw-hr. is 

required, costing per schedule per week 62 cents. 

Artificial gas at $1 per 1,000 cubic feet, a consumption of 320 

cubic feet is required, costing per schedule per 

week 32 cents. 

Coal at $8 per ton, a consumption of 70.25 pounds is required, 

costing per schedule per week 29 cents. 
Kerosene at 11 cents a gallon, a consumption of 2 gallons is 
required, costing per schedule per week 22 cents. 



The meals were prepared for two persons only, except the 
Wednesday dinner which was for four persons. 

Analyzing these figures, it is found that with gas, the quantity, 
320 cubic feet, is considerably lower than the average amount 
used in the home. The rate, $1 a thousand cubic feet, is also well 
below the average for the country, which is now nearer $1.50. 

With coal, the quantity, 70.25 pounds for a week's operation 
of a range, is obviously too small. It requires almost a half of 
this quantity to build a proper fire in the average domestic coal 
range, whereas, the quantity allowed is for 21 meals, or consid- 
erably less than 4 pounds per meal. Furthermore, many people 



FUEL AND ELECTRIC HEAT COMPARED 211 

are paying nearly double the $8 per ton mentioned as the cost 
of coal. The price of kerosene is also practically double the 11 
cent value assumed. 

Comparison of Fuel and Electric Heat. E. A. Wilcox, 
electric heating specialist of the Great Western Power Company, 
in his book, on "Electric Heating," page 6, gives the following 
comparison of fuel and electric heat : 

"The relative heating values of fuels are often compared with 
electric heat. For instance, it may be shown that with coal 
having a heating value of 14,000 B, t. u, per pound and costing 
$5 per ton, manufactured gas, having a heating value of 600 
B. t. u. per cubic foot and costing $1 per thousand cubic feet 
and electricity having a heating value of 3,412 B. t. u. per 
kilowatt hour and costing 1 cent per kilowatt hour, 1 cent will 
buy 56,000 B. t. u. of coal heat, 6,000 B. t. u. of gas heat, and 
3,412 B. t. u. of electric heat. However, the fact must not be 
overlooked that all fuel apparatus is naturally less efficient than 
electric apparatus. With average efficiencies of say 10% for 
coal, 20% for gas, and 70% for electric apparatus, the purchasing 
power of 1 cent under the above assumed prices and heating 
values would be 5,600 B. t. u, of coal heat, 1,200 B, t, u, of gas 
heat, and 2,388 B. t. u, of electric heat. 

"The accompanying table will be of assistance in making 
hasty comparisons of the B. t. u. value of fuel and electric heat. 
Efficiencies lower than 50% are seldom, if ever, encountered in 
electric applications and are, therefore, omitted from the table. 

"Actual experience proves that many careful calculations do 
not work out in practice. One might assume from the above 
figures, for instance, that the cost of using a gas range would be 
at least five times as great as the cost of using a coal range. We 
know, however, that the average cost for cooking is less with gas 
than with coal, under the prices assumed. 

"Cost should not be the only consideration in determining 
the best cooking method to adopt. Improvement of product, 



212 FUEL AND ELECTRIC HEAT COMPARED 

B. T. U. PURCHASING POWER OF ONE CENT 

{From "Electric Heating" by E. A. Wilcox) 

Efficiency of Apparatus 100% 75% 50% 30% 20%, 10%o 
14,000 B. t. u. coal — 

$5.00 per ton 56,000 

$10.00 per ton 28,000 

600 B. t. u. gas — 

$1.00 M. cu. ft 6,000 

1.50 M. cu. ft 4,500 

Electricity — 

1 cent per kw.-hr 3,412 

2 cents per kw.-hr 1,706 

3 cents per kw.-hr 1,137 

5 cents per kw.-hr 682 



42,000 


28,000 


16,800 


11,200 


5,600 


21,000 


14,000 


8,400 


5,600 


2,800 


4,500 


3,000 


1,800 


1,200 


600 


3,375 


2,250 


1,350 


900 


450 


2,559 


1,706 


.... 


.... 


. . . . 


1,279 
853 


853 








568 


.... 


.... 


. . . . 


512 


341 









elimination of waste, increased safety, saving of labor and skill, 
greater comfort and cleanliness, possibility of performing new 
and otherwise impossible operations, are all essential economic 
advantages that accrue to the user of electric heat." 

It will be noted that the lowest efficiency in the table for coal, 
is 10%, whereas this figure is seldom reached in household 
operation. 

With a coal range fire held over night, cooking is only in 
operation a small part of the time, and heat is wasted during 
the major part of the 24 hours. If, on the other hand, a new fire 
is kindled each time, much labor is involved, and there is con- 
siderable expense represented in the cost of the kindling wood 
used. 

Maud Lancaster, in her book, "Electric Cooking, Heating and 
Cleaning," quotes experiments by Dr. L. Wm. Pavey. These 
show meat losses averaging 31% by coal or gas and for roasted 
meat 34% and shows losses in several cases of only 8% with 
electricity, but she states also: 



EFFICIENCY OF ELECTRIC COOKERY 213 

"It is, of course, understood that this higher efficiency in cook- 
ing of meats is obtainable more from the fact that the meat is 
cooked slowly in its own juice, and in a uniform temperature, 
without the juices being carried off, as they are with the present 
coal and gas cooker, than from the class of fuel supplying the 
heat. I have already pointed out that Count Rumford, over 
100 years ago, obtained almost the same high efficiencies with a 
specially constructed coal fire cooker, but the expensive con- 
struction prevented its commercial adoption, although it was 
the pioneer of the coal fire range. 

"When using an electric oven, the housewife or cook knows 
for certain that a movement of one or more switches, will once 
and always produce a certain temperature, and so long as these 
switches are in a given position, so long will the temperature 
be maintained. With gas or coal cooking, there can be no such 
sure and certain knowledge. It is difficult to adjust the gas 
valves twice alike, and even if this could be done, the gas 
pressure may change at any moment, or the internal oven 
temperature may be affected by draughts or by several other 
causes. So far as coal is concerned, the cook is at the mercy of 
the fire to a great extent, since the oven cannot respond quickly 
to changes in the control of dampers and to poking of the fire 
or addition of fuel. The coal oven is always an uncertain 
quantity. One day it will cook satisfactorily, the next it will be 
too slow. There is no nonsense of this kind with the electric 
oven, which is always alike, always ready, and never fails to do 
its work with economy, cleanliness and freedom from supervision." 

There is no question but that in the common practice in the 
household, electric cooking gives more even and satisfactory- 
results, much food being saved in this way because the heat is 
under better control. 

When the afore-mentioned points are taken into consideration, 
and when to them are added the advantages of greater con- 
venience, and cleanliness, with many other arguments in favor 



214 EFFICIENCY OF ELECTRIC COOKERY 

of electric cooking, the advantages of the electric range cooking 
in the household far exceed those of any other method of cooking 
and would justify paying a higher price, if necessary. 

Brown's Directory of Gas Companies for 1920 shows only 
2,468 communities in this country served with artificial gas and 
1,515 in addition with natural gas, giving a total of 3,983; 
whereas, the McGraw Central Station list, gives over 13,700 
communities, large and small, where electric service is available, 
and the records of the Society for Electrical Development show 
that in over 6,000 of these communities rates of 5 cents or less, 
are given for electric cooking. The major part of them being 
4 cents or lower. 

Several research investigators have recently reported that in 
ordinary domestic use, only about 2% of the heat value of the 
coal goes into the food on the coal range. One investigator re- 
ported 2%, others from 1}^% to 3%. 

Experiments conducted at a * 'Practice Cottage," at the 
Washington State College, where cooking of three meals a day 
over a period of a number of weeks was carried on, indicate that 
the cost per week of cooking with coal, wood and electricity are : 

With coal at $11 per ton, 88.5 cents per week; with wood (fir) 
at $11 a cord, 89 cents per week; with electricity at 3.85 cents per 
kilowatt-hour, 86.5 cents per week. 

The following comparisons of various fuels in domestic cook- 
ing are also interesting : 

Range Useful 

Heat Units Efficiency Heating 

for 1 cent Percentage Units 



Coal at $15 per ton 17,333 2 347 

Artificial Gas at $1.50 M. 3,667 15 to 25 550-916 

Electricity at ZAi per kw.-hr. 1,000 60 to 80 600-800 



INDEX 



ADVANTAGES 

advertising, 150 

commercial electric bread baking, 194 
commercial electric cookery, 198 
electric cooker, S3 
electric cookery, 129, 135 
electric heat, 51 
electric range, 35, 143 
intermittent system water heating, 182 
range load, 15, 55 
ranges in apartments, 115 
rate, simple, 21 
steaming vegetables, 139 
storage system of water heating, 179 
water heating load, 178 
• 

ADVERTISEMENTS 

Boston Edison car card, 161 
Boston Edison range-apartment, 1 14 
Central Illinois billboard, 153 
Chariottesville & Albermarle news- 
paper, 162 
"keying," 169 

So. California Cooking School, 111 
So. California range book, 150 
Union Electric newspaper, 159 
Union Electric range-apartment, 117 
Utah Pwr. sales letters, 154, 156, 160 



ADVERTISING 

appropriation, 164 
campaign, 152 
coin-in-slot range, 163 
continuous, 153 
cooking bureau, 109, 110 
copy, 167 
direct-by-mail, 155 
distributing novelties, 163 
educational work, 161 
exhibits, 162 
"jingle" contest, 103 
"keying," 169 
layout, 170 
mediums, 151, 166 

new apartments equipped with ranges, 
113, 116 



ADVERTISING— (conWnuerf) 

newspapers, slides, movies, 158 

parades, 162 

prize essay contest, 163 

publicity, 163 

purpose of, 150 

re-prints of magazine articles, 162 

sales letters, 154, 155, 156, 157, 160 

testimonial letters, 162 

Appliances, using on range socket, 144 
Appropriation, advertising, 164 
Approved electrical fittings, 207 
Architects and builders, education of, 112 
service bureau, 113 

AVERAGE 

bill, 41 

consumption, 41 
family, size of, 41 
rate, 41 



Billboard, Central Illinois, 153 
Bills, monthly, how to estimate, 41 

BREAD BAKING 

advantages of commercial, 194 
development of commercial, 194 

Breads and pastries, 137 
Bogy, setting a, 78, 81 

BOSTON EDISON 

apartment house ad, 114 
"jingle" idea, 103 
street car card, 161 

Builders and architects, education of, 112 

Bulletin for company employes, 83 

Burner, why name was changed, 40 

Buying service, 173 

Byllesby Company, Customer Ownership ad, 
31 



215 



216 



INDEX 



California-Oregon vs. Grants Pass, rate case, 

26 
Campaign advertising, 152 

factors in, 164 

CAMPAIGNS 

Boston Edison, 102, 103 

fundamental activities, 100 

importance of, 100 

Minneapolis "House Next Door," 101 

planning, 164 

prize essay contest, 104, 163 

Vincennes, Ind. Ladies Aid Society, 97, 

103 

Capacities, commercial bread baking oven, 
196 

CARDS 

installation application, 120, 121 
price, delivery and inspection, 122 
prospect, 119, 120 
range, record, 123 
salesman's "score," 119, 121 
trouble order, 123, 124 

CENTRAL ILLINOIS 
billboard, 153 

rate case vs. Risser & Rollins, Paxton, 
24 

CENTRAL STATION 

and the contractor-dealer, 124 
responsibility for proper installation, 59 

CHARTS 

importance of maintaining voltage, 67 
how hot water accumulates at top of 

water tank, 181 
range load for one week, 56 
time required to heat water to 104° 

and 150° F, 186. 187 
why stores lose customers, 88 

Cleanliness of range, 144 
Cleveland rebate-contract form, 28 
Coal, conservation of, 17 
Coin-in-slot range, 163 

COMMERCIAL 

bread baking, 194 
cooking apparatus, 194, 198, 201 
field, development of, 118 
installations, 195, 199, 201 
rates and revenue, 202 



Company co-operation, necessity of, 72 
Comparison, range with appliances, 18, 19 
Complaints, handling, 174 
Conduction of heat, definition of, 51 



CONSERVATION 

made possible, 17 
of oven heat, 143 

Construction of electric range, 35 

CONSUMPTION 

annual, of appliances, 18 
annual, of range, 16, 18 
average, 41 

Continuous advertising, 153 
Contractor-dealer's place in range merchan- 
dising, 124 
Control, perfect, 143 
Convection of heat, definition of, 51 

COOKER, ELECTRIC 

advantages of, 53 
principle of, 52 
• 
COOKERY 

better through electrical methods, 129, 

135 
commercial, 198 
development of electric, 48 
electric, first practical attempt, 48 
electric, superiority of, 50, 135 
scientific, 143 
why used instead of "cooking," 50 

COOKING 

breads and pastries, 137 

bureau, Minneapolis, 109 

meats, 140 

methods of, 136 

methods of revolutionizing, 71 

rate, 19 

school, St. Louis, 108 

vegetables, 139 

without a rate, 116 

Coolness, of electric cookery, 144 

COPY, ADVERTISING 
censor carefully, 172 
preparation of, 167 

Cost, operating, 41 

Costs, relative, electricity, gas and coal, 209 

Current service, 173 



INDEX 



217 



CUSTOMER OWNERSHIP, 27, 30 
ad of H. M. Byllesby Co., 31 
one company's offer, 32 
the Society's position on, 33 
view of St. Louis company, 33 



Data, range, from 100 central stations. In- 
sert folder back of book.. 

Decisions, Rate, of Public Service Commis- 
sions, 24 
Definitions. I nsert folder back ff book 
Demand factor, 55 

DEMONSTRATIONS 
home, 175 
how to stage, 97 
on tjuck, 101 

DEMONSTRATORS 

duties, 84 
qualifications, 91 

DEVELOPMENT 

commercial field, 118 

cooking devices. 34 

domestic field, 108 

domestic science, field, 116 

electric cookery, 48 

kitchen equipment, 42 

load, 15, and inser folder back oj book 

sales of commercial equipment, 107 

Direct-by-mail literature, 155 

DISPLAYS 

salesroom, 94 
show windows, 95 
variety of, 94 

Distribution system, mapping, 81 

DIVERSITY FACTOR, 55 

in 100 central stations. Insert folder 
back of book- 

Domestic field, development of, 108 
Domestic science field, 116 



Earnings, 15, 18, 27 

Edison Elect. Illucn. Co., range-apartment 

ad, 114 

"jingle" idea, 103 

street car card, 161 



Editorial aid, electric cookery, by Society, 207 
Educational advertising 161 

EDUCATION OF 

builders and architects, 112 

demonstrators, 84, 97 

foreign servants, 148 

salesmen, 83 

service department men, 85, 174 

Exhibits, 161 

EXTENSIONS 

methods of financing, 27 

Pacific Pwr. 85 Lt. requirement before 

building, 29 



FACTORS 

in campaign, 164 
in installation, 58 
in selling to women, 132 

Family, average size of, 41 

Feature advertising, 162 

Financial co-operation of customers on ex- 
tensions, 30 

Financing extensions, 27 

Follow-up work, on prospects, 105 

Food, better cooked, 135 

FORMS, office and warehouse, 119 

Foreign servants, teaching, 148 

Frame, grounding, 65 

Fundamental points in writing advertising, 
167 

Fusing, individual, 37 

Fuse, say "melted," not "burned-out," 208 



Good Housekeeping's endorsement of electric 

cookery, 142 
Grounding frame, 65 



H 

HEAT 

comparison with other methods, 52 
electric, advantages of, 51 
how generated, 51 
methods of measuring, 52 

HEATERS, WATER, 178 



218 



INDEX 



Heating, kitchen obstacle overcome by auxil- 
iary heater, 147 
Home demonstrations, 175 
Homemaking, modern, 42 



I 



Commission' 



Illinois Public Service 

decision, 24 
Individuality of range, 35 
Inside-circulation type water heater, 188 

INSTALLATION 

application card, 120, 121 

central station's responsibility, 59 

commercial, 195, 199, 201 

cost to central station, no including 
plant capacity. Insert folder back of 
book. 

cost to customer. Insert folder back of 
book 

double throw switches for water heater, 
65 

factors in, 58 

grounding frame, 65 

importance of maintaining voltage, 67 

main line swit hes, 62 

master switch, 65 

meter loops, 62 

meter sizes, 69 

number of ranges installed in 100 cen- 
tral stations. Insert folder back of 
book 

planning commercial, 201 

range circuits, 63 

service, 173 

service connections, 60 

standard units, 59 

testing the range, 70 

transformer capacities, 69 

trial, 76 

voltage recommendations, 66 

wiring diagram, 61 

wiring specifications, 60 

wiring table, 64 



Insulation of water heater, importance. 
Insurance requirements, 206 
Introductory offers, 77 

INVESTMENT 

comparative, 16 

how to pro-rate, 54 

in transmission lines, 27 

in station equipment, 27 

necessary, 54 

value of utility, 30 



191 



J 
K 

"Keying" an advertisement, 169 

KILOWATT-HOUR per range per annum. 
Insert folder back of book- 

KITCHEN 

complete commercial electric, 195, 199, 
201 

modem of 1919, 43 

why it needs electric range, 42 
Kitchenette ranges, 45, 46, 47 



Layout, advertising, 170 
Letters, testimonial, 162 

LOAD 

advantages of, 15, 54, 55 
apartment, curve for one week, 56 
average conditions of, 54 and insert 

folder back of book- 
char actcTistics of, 55 
demand and diversity factor, 55 
development of, 15 
kilowatt of 100 central stations. Insert 

folder back of book 
kitchenette range, 46 
two examples of, 57 
water heating, 178 

Losses which occur when cooking vegetables, 
139 



M 



Magazine articles, re-prints of, 162 
Mahoning 86 Shenango stock-selling plan, 32 

MAIN LINE SWITCHES, how to wire, 62 

Maintenance service, 173 
Market, range, how to analyze, 79 
Meat, why electrically cooked is better, 140 
Mediums, advertising, 151, 166 

MERCHANDISING METHODS 
architects and builders, 112 
campaigns, 100, 164 
commercial field, 118 
compensation of salespeople, 91 
contractor-dealer's position, 124 
cooking without a rate, 116 



INDEX 



219 



MERCHANDISING METHODS— 
{continued) 

co-operation of entire company, 72 
demonstrator's duties, 84 
demonstrator's qualifications, 91 
disparaging other makes, 93 
displays, 94 
domestic field, 108 
domestic science field, 116 
demonstrations, 97 
energizing salesmen, 80 
follow-up work, 105 
general basic factors, 71 
introductory offers, 77 
merchandising throughout a territory, 

85 
office and warehouse forms, 119 
policies, 74, 77 
price maintenance, 73 
prospects, 105 
range and parts, stock, 92 
ranges in apartments, 115 
revolutionizing cooking methods, 71 
sales dept. organization, 78 
sales development, 107 
sales ideas, 101 
sales manager's position, 79 
salesmen's qualifications, 87 
salesmen's work, 83 
salesroom displays, 94 
selecting types, 92 
selling every "electrical" man, 73 
service bureau for architects, 114 
service dept. organization, 85 
service dept. work, 85 
service of the Society, 208 
show windows, 95 
time payments, 75 
trial installations, 76 
why stores lose customers, 88 

METER 

loops, 62 

number installed by 100 central 

stations. Insert folder back, of book.- 
sizes, 69 



METHODS 

advertising, 151, 166 
cooking, 136 
merchandising, 71 

Milwaukee-Blackstone apartments, load 
curve, 56 

MINNEAPOLIS 

cooking bureau folder, 109 
"House-next-door'" campaign, 101 
recipe service idea, 109 

Movies, advertising, 158 



N 

National Board of Fire Underwriters, 207 
National Electrical Code, 206 

NEWSPAPER 

advertising, 158 
advertisement, Boston, 114 

Charlottesville, Va., 162 
St. Louis, 159 

NOMENCLATURE of range parts, 203 

Northern States Pwr. Co. stock-selling win- 
dow, 27 
Novelties, distributing, 163 



Obstacles, how to overcome sales, 145 

Office and warehouse forms, 119 

OPERATING 

conditions, actual, in 100 central 
stations today. Insert folder back of 
book 
cost, governing factors, 41 

low when all factors considered, 
145 
costs, relative, electricity, gas and coal, 
209 

Operation, economy of range, 42 

simplicity of range, 143 
Oregon Public Service Commission's ruling, 

26 

ORGANIZATION 

sales department, 78 
service department, 85 

Outside-circulation type water heater, 179, 
186 

OVEN 

advantages of commercial, 196 
capacities of commercial, 196 
commercial bread baking, 194 
conservation of heat, 143 
description of domestic, 38 
pointers for new users, 176 



Pastries and breads, 137 
Payments, time, 75 
Planning campaigns, 164 

commercial installations, 201 



220 



INDEX 



Pointers for service men, 174 
Policy in relation to contractor-dealer, 127 
Portland service bureau for architects, 114 
Position of contractor-dealer, 124 
Practicability of range, 34 

PRICE 

comparison of old and new devices, 134 
discussion, 39 
justify it to yourself, 131 
maintenance, 73 
not important in sale, 134 
obstacle eliminated by installment pay- 
ment plan, 145 

Price, Delivery and Inspection Card, 122 
Prize essay contests, 104, 163 

PROGRESS 

in homemaking, 42 

in commercial cooking, 198 

Prospect Cards, 119, 120 

Prospects, classification of, 105 

Publicity, importance of, 163 

Public Service Commission, rulings on rates, 

24 
Purpose of advertising, 150 



QUALIFICATIONS 

of demonstrators, 91 
of salesmen, 87 



Radiation of heat, definition of, 51 

RANGE 

advantages of, 34, 143 

cabinet type, 36, 37 

circuits, wiring of, 63 

construction, general, 35 

consumption, average, 16, 18, 41 

data from 100 central stations Insert 

folder bacfi of book, 
economy of, 42 
elevated-oven type, 38 
ideal for apartments, 115 
individuality of, 35 
its place in the home, 42 
kitchenette, 45, 46, 47 
low-oven type, 38 



RANGE— (con/inueJ) 

merchandising by contractor-dealer, 124 
monthly bill, how to estimate, 41 
number installed by 100 central stations 

49 and insert folder back, of book. 
operating cost, 41 
oven, description of, 38 
parts, standardized names of, 203 
practicability, 34 
price, discussion, 39 
record card, 123 
repair parts' stock, 93 
resistance wire, 36 
situation today. Insert folder back of 

book 
stock necessary, 92 
supremacy of, 35 
test, how to, 70 
thermostatically-controlled, 38 
types of, 36, 37, 38, 45, 46, 47 
types to choose, 92 
units, surface, 39 
why it is purchased, 44 
why it is not a luxury, 44 
wiring diagram, 61 

RATE 

advantages of a simple, 2 1 

average, 41 

advisability of a low, 20 

central station man's opinion of, 22 

commercial cookery, 202 

cooking without a, 116 

factors in determining, 22 

general discussion on, 19 

how some central stations have low- 
ered, 20 

justification of, 24 

monthly minimum, 22 

established by 100 central stations. 
Insert folder back of book 

Public Service Commission's rulings, 24 

statistics, 208 and insert folder back of 
book 

various forms of, 21 

Rebate-contract form, Cleveland, 28 

Salt Lake City, 30 
Recipe service idea, Minneapolis, 109 
Repair parts' stock, 93 
Requirements; insurance, 206 



REVENUE 

commercial cooking load, 202 
range compared with appliances. 
Pacific Power fie Light Co., 27 
value of, 15, 24 
water heater, 178 

Roasting, tests, commercial, 200 



18 



INDEX 



221 



Safety of range, 144 
Salary, salesmen's, 91 

SALES 

Boston "jingle" contest, 103 

cost, how to distribute, 81 

department organization, 78 

development, 107 

ideas, practical, 101 

inducements, 77 

large central station, 49 and insert back 

of book 
Minneapolis magazine postcard, 102 
plans, laying, 81 

Sales letters, 154, 155, 156, 157, 160 
Sales manager's position, 79 

SALESMANSHIP 

avoid negatives, 134 
avoid technicalities, 133 
feature one point, 131 
idea, not the range, 129 
price comparison of old and new de- 
vices, 134 
price not important in sale, 134 
why women buy, 132 



SALESMEN 

concentrate on range selling, 77 

how to energize, 80 

"score" card, 119, 121 

should not disparage other makes, 

their importance, 87 

their qualifications, 87 

their work, 83 

what they should know, 128-135 



93 



Salesroom display, 94 

SALESWORK 

in commercial field, 194 
with architects and builders. 



112 



Scale formation in water heaters, 192 
Scenario contest, 162 
Science supersedes guessing, 135 
Secondary distribution requirements, 66 



SECURITIES 

methods of selling to customers, 2 7 
Mahoning & Shenango Rwy. & Lt. Co., 
32 



SELLING 

electric cooking idea, 128 

every electrical man, 73 

other appliances, 177 

points, locating "sales target," 128 

points, to use, 129 — those NOT to use, 

130 
policies, 73 

ranges throughout territory, 85 
satisfaction, 78 

SERVICE 

advantages of range, 17 
connections, how to wire, 60 
department organization, 81 
better than "trouble" and "repair," 

59 
merchandising. Society's, 208 
range. Society's, 207 
real range, 173 

SIZES 

meter, 69 
transformer, 69 
wire, 64 

Slides, advertising, 158 

Slower operation, obstacle overcome, 146 

SPECIFICATIONS, WIRING, 60 

Society's range service, 207 

Socket, using appliances on range, 144 

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA cooking school 
ad. 111 
range book, 150 
Standardized names of range parts, 203 
Steaming vegetables, advantages, 139 
Street car card, Boston Edison, 161 
Supremacy of range, 35 
Surface units, pointers for new users, 177 

SWITCH 

master, installation of, 61, 65 
double throw for water heater, 61, 65 



Teaching foreign servants, 148 
Territory, merchandising throughout, 85 
Test, commercial roasting, 200 
Testimonial letters, 162 
Texas method of energizing salesmen, 80 
Tomorrow's merchandising, 125 



222 



INDEX 



TRANSFORMER CAPACITIES. 69 

Trial installations, 76 
Trouble order, 123, 124 
Truck demonstration idea, 101 

TYPES OF RANGES, 36, 37, 38, 45, 46, 47 



U 

UNION ELECTRIC 

cooking school, 108 
newspaper ad, 159 
range-apartment ad, 117 
view of customer ownership, 33 

UNITS 

oven, 39 

pointers for new users, 177 
reason for name, 40 
standard wiring of, 59 
surface, description of, 39 

UTAH POWER 

cooking school, 98 
re-bate contract form, 30 
sales letters, 154, 156, 157, 160 

Underwriters Laboratories, 207 



VEGETABLES 

how cooked, 139 

loss which occurs in boiling and steam- 
ing edible portions, 139 

Vincennes, Ind. Ladies Aid Society campaign, 
97, 103 

VOLTAGE 

drops, 66 

importance of maintaining, 67 

recommendations, 66 



w 

Warehouse and office forms, 119 
Washington Water Power's water heating 
business, 193 



WATER HEATERS, 178 

"clamp-on" type, 189, 190 

double-throw switch, 65 

heat insulation of, 191 

how hot wat€r accumulates at top of 

tank, 181 
intermittent system, 182 
inside-circulation type, 188 
outside -circulation type, 179, 186 
scale formation in, 1"92 
storage system, 179 



WATER HEATING LOAD, 178 

development in one central station, 193 

revenue, 178 
Water heating obstacle overcome by water 

heating rate, 148 
Why stores lose customers, 88 
Why women buy, 132 
Window displays, 95 
Wire, resistance, 36 



WIRING 

chart showing importance of main- 
taining voltage, 67 

diagram, 61. 

double-throw switch for water heaters. 
65 

grounding frame, 65 

main line switches, meter loops, 62 

master switch, 65 

meter sizes. 69 

range circuits, 63 

recommendations, 66 

service connections, 60 

specifications, 60 

table of wire sizes, 64 

transformer capacities, 69 

voltage, 66 

WORK 

demonstrators, 84 
following-up prospects, 105 
sales manager's, 79 
salesmen, 83 
service department, 85 

Writing advertising copy, 167 



\s^Din9t>i3Ci li TOVv - i:nHq 

la sHi 21 £97L'si^ 'to rrmutfoD ilinaaiiLfol arfT 
Tj I3q 81x1- V ) noiiTqmuerJoo sgnfii A 



^f\ol1lns\^(l 

»rii 16 inn* 5!r! kJT :-i^o«1 yitawiO 

i3wd^q mi/mixBrn 



^ 



I 



Electric Range Data from 100 Central Stations, 1921 



FUNDAMENTAL FACTS 

Range Situation Today 

Actual Condiliont. This compilation presents an au- 
thentic analysis of the actual operating conditions of 
iypical electric range loads as they exist today through- 
out the United States. 

This data was secured from 100 large and small repre- 
sentative central stations which have shown unusual 
interest and activity in electric range merchandising. 
Their combined statistics make a most complete and 
significant record of electric range progress. 



The fourth column of figures is a Ratio between resi- 
dences wired and total population reached by the com- 
pany — NOT a fiercenlage! 

The fourteenth column of figures is the Effective Rate. 
A range consumption of 125 kw-hrs per month is used 
in calculating the block- and step-rates. For the com- 
bined rate, 25 kw-hrs are used as the lighting and 
appliance consumption. 



Definitions 

Demand I (Technically. DwnartJ fac/or). 



the total connected load of the 



Divaraity Factor: The r 



' range, connected 1 




"«OITtLtCTRlCMJ.Y- 



Compiled, copyrighted and distributed by The Society for Electrical Development, Inc. 



U ikt '6i Jill 






Albuq.Gen. Elec. Lt. A Pw r .Co 



ker, Orego 
y City, Mi. 
Ilingh.m, 



Canton, Ohio 
Charlottesville 
Chicago. 111. 



Anaconda Copp er Mining^ 
Atlantic City Elecl Co; 
Aahville Power & Light Co 
Eaatern Oregon Lt. & Pwr. 



. Elec. 111. Co. of Beaton 



1,212,582 76.554 



Buffalo General Elac. Co. . 



82,000 1,300 



31,200 2,015 



ver Company 




92,000 


12,792 13.8 16,191 


110 


704 6.4 2 


5 1,982 70.00 


80 to 100 


4.28 a 


.45- 


esville & Albe. Ry. Co. 


"_J" 


13,000 
3,000.000 
800.000 


2,200 17. 2,325 


125 


435 3.5 1 


5 2,400 Good 42.00 




3. 


1.50 




-^Ii-i":!^T^'°4 


3*4-9 * 


2 48°8° 7' 4 


■^ -,''«3 °° ' 80 00 


- 2m 


5. 
3.64 


••" 



12.76 42,111 



3,017 23.2 



Detroit. Mich 




51 


199,700 


26,928 


13.5 


37,261 


1,562 


7,810 


5. 


1.610 


Di«on. Ill 


imnoi.No.Utiliti..Co 


-^ 


93,861 


23,792 


25.3 


24.000 


518 


_3.O0O^ 


5.8 


2.5 1,400 C 


Eau Claire. Wi.. 


Wi.c.-Minn. Lights Pwr. Co. 




142.140 


16,200 


11.4 


21,555 


136 


728 


'TT' 


Mse - 








-^■S- 






-'4S- 






^- 




F::W^°yn..lnd.. 


F..W.yn.*N.Ind.Sc,.ic.C. 


-tr- 


-^ts- 






liZ 


225 


1,575 


-7; — 


-ifj-J^So— 3 


Freano. Calif, 




79 


200.000 




11.5 


34,000 


120 


720 


6. 


3.5 4.000 3 


Franklin. Ma... 




5 


36.000 


2,018 




2,409 


102 


675 


6.6 


3. 1,560 






6 


26,500 






4,065 


80 


500 


6.2 


3. 1.200 2 



400 Good 25.00 



2.500 30'; 


30.00 




15.00 


3. 


1.25 


4.000 30' 


225.00 




90.00 




1.37 


1,560 


60.00 




35.00 




2.10 



Cr«,nwich, Conn. 


Conn. Light & Pwr. Co 


1 14,000 
6 22,000 


— 1^ 


15:57- 


4,185 


125 


2,700 9. 3. 1,250 50.00 


4.5 










800 




2,000 




700 7. 1. 2,688 15-20-. 125.00 40.00 






Hartford, Conn 




13 138,036 


30,000 


21.7 


-32,778 




1,152 5.1 2. 1,000 33', 16.00 50.50 


4 


■ 1 27 


lndi«,.poli.. Ind. 


Indian. Light & Heat Co. : 


4 32,000 
12 3^0,000 ^ 


3,349 


'^h- 




400 


2,000 5.7 1.2 1,275 12.00 15.00 
1,500 3.8 2. T,200 13' .7l50:00 30 to 40 


3&3.5_ ^ 


c Z 


Lake City. Minn. 


No. Id. Mont. Pwr. Co. 
Munic. Plant 


i~ :"'.»"?_ 


-^8^ 


,3^3 


— ^rloo 


^TZ 


1,200 6. -3. 1,500 ~ 25.00 40.00 
1.000 6.5 Good 30.00 40.00 


2:25 
3-^ 


•-t:li 


















3.1 




Lewiston. Mont. 








13.4 


2.224 


323 




3. 


',- f 


London. Ont. 




1 61,000 






14.128 


__700_ 


4.200 6. 2. 5.000 Gooiloll peak 55.00 




c 1.50-1.00 


Lo. Angel... Calif. 


Southern Calif. Edi.on Co. 


,„- ,250.000" 


T44:oo6- 


-11.5— 


T75:000"- 


T^- 


14:600- 5. -62- 1.450 12, 17.90 ^fs.OO 


'*5^ 




Loui.ville, Ky. 


Ky.Utilitie. Co. 'Office only, 


37 90.000 


16,696 


18.55 


15.926 


131 


683 5.2 1,200 V„. H„h 150.00 25.00 


4. 




Louisville, Ky. 


Lou...ille Ga. & Elec. Co. 


18 341.000 


-40,359 


11.8 


42,123 


200 


1,000 5. 3. l.SOO 50', 150.00 90.00 


3. 




Maiden, Ma... 




4 150,000 


16,000 








500 5. 3. 1,800 35.00 


s. 


. 1.50 






1 21,000 


3,400 




4,211 


85 


453 5.2 1.2 1,500 25.00 25.00 


3. 


c 1.30 


Medford, Oregon 




IS 20,088 






4,248 


500 


2,500 5. 3. 1,800 V.Cd 100,. 130 501.60 


2.4 


2.00 




Miami Elec. Lt. & Pwr. Co. 


5 40,000 


8,200 












. 1.90 




Munic. Plant 


2 9,000 


1,500 




2,116 




400 3.9 1.37 1,050 75.00 30.00 


4. 


■ t 






24 450,000 


31,300 


'■ 








2.3 


c .75 


MiruirM^n"!:""; 


Mi.«.ulaLt.iW.Co.lCityOnly) 


7 16,000 


4,100 


2S.6 


^- 


''ul 




2.1 


c 1.75 



Olympia Lt. & Pwr. Co. 



Nebra.ka Pwr. Co. 



Central III. Utilit 



5.330 21.3 



P ortland. Oreg on 
Portland, O r egon ! 
Portland, Oregon 



9,300 7.75 



392 2,163 5.5 



131,600 20,893 15.8 



1 Ry. Lt. &Pwr. Co. 



1 Co. Lt. & Pwr. Co. 



35,526 11.85 37,734 



900 50"„ 35.00 



(.400 50'; 135.0 



Rockford Elec. Co. 









12,500 
















30.00 






St.Loui..Mo 


U.'.El.<.U.iP.,.C..,S,.W,b.l»C,.m: 


1 


1,000,000 


91,000 


9.1 


126,000 


1,700 


9,900 5.2 






At co.t 


2.25 


.80 


San Di..o. Calif. 


^:^cr^:.^.i;^ 


-^ 


100,300 


24.811 


24.8 


-^67255- 


3,236 
195 


1.326 6.8 3. 


TToo 


-c^idTioToo- 


21.00 


w 




San Franci.co, Calif. 
San Franci.co, Calif. 


Great. We.t.rn Pwr. Co. (OfHc.) 


-ih 


42,025 
"1:250,000- 


-^ 


11.1 
-1:2^ 


30,000 


766" 


993 4.4 2.46 
3,500 5. 3. 


iMO 


81.57 
10'^„ 150.66 


75.60 
75.00 


2.25 


c .85 ..d., 


San F,anci.co, Calif. 


Pacific Ca. & Elec. Co 

S'ra. 4SanFr.Pwr.Co. (Off.) 


166 


1,362,621 
25.060- 


200.000 


14.7 


274,860 


1,350 


8,000 6. 3. 


1.595 


100.00 


60.00 


3.5 


.4c 1.05 




3,920 


-j~ 


6,996 


151 








... 


2.7 


c 1.65 


Santa Barbara, Calif 


Santa Barbara Ga. & Elec. Co. 




35,000 


6,000 


7,300 


153 


1,540 10. 




Good 


25.00 


4. 


cco°i^..y: 


Scranton, Pa. 




Zl 




30,000 


12. 


35,000 


100 


600 6. 2. 


1,200 








1.70 








(315,000) 


56,990 


















1.43 


Saattle, Wa.h. 


Puget. Sd. Trac. Lt. & Pwr. C. 


72 


375.000 


22,000 


6. 




600 


3,240 5.4 


1,700 


22V,': 75:00 


45.00 


3. 


^ 1.45 


Spokane, Wa.h. 






212.177 


31,200- 




37,645 




20,455 6.5 2. 










I.«7 














68,856 


2.614 


13,700 5 2. 






23.00 






Sterling, Colo. 


Colorado Power Co 


1 


B.000 


1,486 


16.80 


1,486 


200 


..000 5. 2. 


1,050 




25.00 


■*: 


f 






-T- 


.!S:-z 


11,000 


-¥- 


_14^- 


'*'' 


. Mi^ 6, _ 


3,780 




75.00_ 


r- 


1.10 


Wahpaton, N. D. 


Otter Tail Power Co 


-h 


3,300 


600 




---•"|- 


-''T25 


-•^-" , J - 


~tsM 


8'. 21.00 


«=»«_ 


^1— 




W..hington, D. C. 


Polomoc Elac. Pwr. Co 




45<,200 


28,883 


6.3 


48,122 




2,646 6. 






50.00 




1.32 






» 


100,737 


11,454 


II. 


13,149 


634 


4,192 6.4 


1,728 


5.01 i«i,le 




-J.5 


e 1.40 






42 


40.000 


3,500 


8.7 


3:700 


164 






10.00 






. 1.80 


Whit. Br. Lake, Min 


.No. State. Power C 


g 


5,000 


1,090 


21.8 


1,352 


194 


1,100 5.6 


1,500 







4. 


. t 






» 


160.566 


26,496 


16.5 






2,500 5. l.S 


1,200 






3. 








1 








1.704 


96 












a t 




Wilmington 4 Phila. Trac. C. - 


jT 


175,000 


10.000 


5.7 






720 3.6 2. 




16.6'/. 12.06 


15. I. 20. 


J. 





3J oB 








;'l. ..;:.- ..bfi J .^n 












-^: . . . : .:. 


..V'J 










: 


^•^ 












aO 


1 






;■ . . .■^ci . 


^^o 


a oD 


.i*f<i 






J /.. 


iD 







.JilA.i 


'1. 


.viiiuM aaiiVi ,Lcdvj 


riSisaiO 


tt -n 


-> f J 


r^^r-f 


fc- 


.tr*fT.-H . ..nnoD ^b*? 


o^tffiH 


i^ 








s^ ,no«rt 




^i 








rftT^???^. 




r' 










nl 


S •-» 


y . . -.^ 




. .-.-, . . .,...;-^.,. ,i.. 


..,...;.:)i 


r 


.,• ■.. 






ifiuM n.niM ,xli: 


3 93IbJ 


ri... .. •:": 


. . ..o' 






■'^.2.. . ..D^-" . . 


JbJ 


^^ •, , 


iVr.oD 






/?^., ,. 


,J 


I 


.-. 






. . .stiG ,i. 


icbftoJ 


s 






. AoO ,Sfto- 


-i^no^l 


ttdZr '" 








-"i ii 


oJ 


SOI . . . . .c 




TC . (Ytnt 








'4. .. 


;oJ 


^ - 










iOJ 












i\A 














31 .YiU .-i-j. 






w~~~ . 




a -..^ :o- 










s. 


fi: 












$€, ./. 






A.. .ny 




>i- (xl^-- . 






A 




>;■• ..v*^-^^-- 






■'A..-..rf 




i ;.....^. 








i'J -i.o. 




jr ";.:..^.:.-..^ 








■ A V 


.iO 


ts ..: 








' 






il 



&H 






