


1 1 




Class T/ 7 A. f 
Book ^ J j ^^ 
CofiyrigM]^? 



CQE^ICHT DEPOSIT. 



HOME BUREAU AND COMMUNITY 

COOK BOOK 




BY THE 

DANVERS TOWNSHIP HOME BUREAU UNIT 

DANVERS, ILLINOIS 



Copyright, 1921 
Danvers Township Home Bureau Unit 






OFFICERS 

Mrs. J. W. Yoder, Director 

Mrs. Arthur Twenty, Asst. Director 

Miss Edna L. Stephens, Chairman 

Miss Margaret M. Dirks, Vice Chairman 

Mrs. Walter R. Nafziger, Secy, and Treas. 

Mrs. Harvey P. Miller, Asst. Secy, and Treas. 



Mrs. E. C. Hinshaw 
Miss Helen Springer 
Mrs. F. E. Risser 
Mrs. Walter Risser 
Mrs. J. C. Nafziger 
Mrs. E. S. Sloane 
Mrs. Eugene Nafziger 
Mrs. W. J. Mc Clure 
Mrs. Homer Barclay 

Mrs. E. 



MEMBERS 

Mrs. Fred Miller. 
Mrs. E. R. Buescher 
Mrs. Charles Strubhar 
Mrs. E. A. Kinsinger 
Mrs. J. J. Zook 
Mrs. A. E. Scharfenberg 
Mrs. B. F. Springer 
Mrs. Claude King 
Mrs. J. E. Rupp 
M. Minnick 



DEC 27 i32l 
^niA630967 



MNTjmVn pmt siA.ca 



Introduction 



In presenting this cook book to the public, we believe they 
as well as our unit will greatly benefit by our efforts. 

In accordance with our unit being a township organization 
we with the kind assistance of the other ladies of our township 
and friends from other places have gathered material for this 
work. 

All recipes printed herein have been tested by the con- 
tributors and the committee in charge have carefully planned 
with the idea of having equally good recipes for the large or 
small family, the town or country housewife, the simple picnic 
and the elaborate dinner party. 

An "Invalid Cookery" section was also made possible by 
the kindness of personal friends of our chairman which pro- 
vides for the sick in the home. 

In conclusion we wish every purchaser success with each 
recipe they use. 

Danvers Township Home Bureau Unit. 



CONTENTS 



Page 

Soup 5 

Fish and Meats 7 

Poultry and Dressings 12 

Mayonnaise and other Salad Dressings 15 

Vegetable Salads 19 

Relishes and Catsups 23 

Pickles 26 

Vegetable and Casserole Dishes 30 

Egg Dishes 35 

Sandwiches 37 

Yeast Bread 40 

Coffee Cakes 45 

Nut, Brown and Corn Breads 48 

Light Rolls and Biscuit 52 

Buns and Breakfast Cakes 54 

Cake Fillings 59 

Mixed and Sponge Cakes 62 

Apple Sauce, White and Spice Cake 71 

Chocolate and Fruit Cake 76 

Ginger Bread 82 

Fancy Cakes 84 

Mixed Cookies 88 

Molasses and Ginger Cookies 93 

Doughnuts 97 

Pies , 101 

Mince Meat 110 

Short Cake 112 

Desserts 114 

Fruit Salads 118 

Ice Cream and Sherbets 121 

Puddings 124 

Marmalades 132 

Canning 135 

Confectionery 138 

Coffee, Tea and Beverages 146 

Miscellaneous 150 

Invalid Cookery 153 



Soup 



OYSTER SOUP 

Place 1 quart oysters in kettle, in their own liquor, and let 
them boil until edges of oysters curl, season with butter, salt and 
pepper [to taste]. Place 3 pints of milk in a separate kettle, and 
let it come to a boil, have six soup plates ready, and divide 
oysters and liquor among the six plates, then pour 1 cup of 
boiling milk in each plate and serve. — Mrs. L. S. Burdette. 

TOMATO SOUP 

1 pint tomatoes, boil and add a pinch of soda (soda neu- 
tralizes acid in tomatoes) and boil again, heat a quart of milk 
and stir in a paste of flour. Add browned butter, salt and 
pepper. Stir milk into tomatoes. Serve at once. 

—Miss Margaret M. Dirks. 



CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoon each of salt and 

1 pint strained tomatoes sugar 

1 tablespoon butter Pepper to taste 

2 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon soda 

Put tomatoes in a stew pan, cover and simmer slowly for 
fifteen minutes. Put milk in a double boiler, add butter and 
flour creamed together and stir until it thickens. Strain tomatoes 
into soup tureen, add sugar, soda, salt and pepper, then pour in 
the creamy mixture all at once, stirring very gently until well 
blended. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve at once. 

—Mrs. E. S. Sloane. 



POTATO SOUP 

4 good size potatoes Boil till well done 

1 onion 1 quart milk 

1 quart water 

Melt one heaping tablespoon of butter, put in 2 rounding 
tablespoons flour, stir until a nice brown, then pour into the 
soup, season with salt and pepper. — Mrs. E. A. Kinsinger. 



Fish and Meats 



FRIED OYSTERS 

Break an egg in small pan, season with salt and pepper, add 
little sweet milk and rolled cracker crumbs — Drop in oysters, 
then fry in butter in skillet, turn once with the pancake turner 
and serve at once. — Mrs. Madgaleiie Lackey. 



OYSTERS CODDLED IN RAMEQUIN 

From slices of bread I/2 inch thick stamp out pieces the size 
of ramequins. Toast and butter. Above these dispose a layer 
of oysters, carefully washed and free from bits of shell. Sprinkle 
oysters with salt and pepper, and pour over them 2 tablespoons 
of cream sauce. Sprinkle the contents of each dish with 2 table- 
spoons of cracker crumbs, mixed with butter. Bake in oven 
about 8 minutes, or until browned. Serve at once. 

White Sauce. — Blend 2 level tablespoons each of flour and 
butter. Gradually add 1 cup of milk. Cook 10 minutes, stirring 
constantly. Add seasoning of salt and paprika. 

—Mrs. O. P. Westerveldt, Peoria, III. 



.BREADED CHOPS 

4 loin chops 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg Dash of pepper 

1 cup bread crumbs 

Beat egg, mix bread crumbs, salt and pepper dry. Dip chop 
in beaten egg, then in bread mixture. Fry until a light brown. 
Parsley may be used as a garnish or minced and added with dry 
mixture. Or minced onion may be added if desired. 

—"Cafeteria Recipe" of A Friend. 



VEAL BIRDS 

Cut round veal into 3 inch pieces, pound flat and roll up, 
stuffing with bread dressing, roll in egg and cracker crumbs. 
Bake, basting often to keep meat tender. — Miss Nell Pearce. 



HAM FRITTERS 

2 pounds cold cooked ham 2 eggs 

ground 1 cup milk 

% cup bread crumbs 1 tablespoon butter 
a small onion 

Mix well and shape into cakes and fry a nice brown in a 
skillet. — Mrs. F. E. Risser. 



FISH AND MEATS 



LEFT OVER HAM 

1 cup cold ground ham 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1/4 cup bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

1/4 cup milk V^ teaspoon pepper 

Mix well, put in gem pans, break an egg on top and bake 
8 minutes. — Mrs. Claude King. 



SALMON CROQUETTES AND PUFFS 

1 small can salmon Add pinch of salt 

Break in 1 egg 1 cup rolled cracker crumbs 

Mix together well, make into cakes, roll in cracker crumbs, 
and fry in little lard and butter or fryings. May be dipped in 
beaten egg, then rolled in crumbs if desired. 

Drain and bone 1 can salmon, add % cup bread crumbs 
moistened in milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 1/2 teaspoon salt, 2 beaten 
eggs (beat separately). Bake in buttered gem pans. 

— Mrs. L. F. Stephens, Carlock, III. 



MEAT CROQUETTES 

Grind about 2 cups of meat and add the following: 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup milk 

2 scant tablespoons flour 

Let this come to a boil and beat in 1 well beaten egg to which 
a little milk has been added, season with salt and pepper and 
cook until thick. Pour over the meat and when cool make into 
balls of sausage shape, roll in beaten egg and cracker or bread 
crumbs and fry in hot fat. — Mrs. G. E. Ewins. 

LEFT OVER MEATS 

1 quart of ground meat 1 tablespoon of butter 

2 small onions chopped fine 2 eggs 

1 Vi cup cracker crumbs 1 cup of milk 

Beat eggs; put milk in eggs; pour over meat; form in a 
loaf and bake. — Mrs. E. A. Kinsinger. 



WATERLESS MEAT 

Use any kind of beef roast but the chuck is preferable. Heat 
an aluminum kettle until it rolls a ball of water when dropped in 
it. Salt and pepper meat and have it ready while preparing 
kettle. Drop meat into kettle and sear on one side then other 
side. Decrease heat to half and then drop a small onion in on 
top. Then cover with a tight lid. Leave fire same and cook 
until tender. Delicious gravy may be made with this meat. 

—Mrs. W. R. Yerke, Elkhart, Ind. 



FISH AND MEATS 



SWISS STEAK 

Round of steak about 2 inches in thickness, salt and pepper 
and flour well. Place in real hot skillet with plenty of lard and 
when brown turn and when brown on both sides place in roaster, 
pour over it the liquid in skillet and roast until tender. Serve 
with its own gravy. A little onion may be added when steak is 
in skillet if desired. — Miss Margaret M. Dirks. 

CHOP SUEY 

1 pound pork shoulder or beef 1 cup white celery 

chopped 3 tablespoons molasses 

1 cup sliced onion 

Add after meat has been cooked one hour then cook 15 min- 
utes longer. Add salt and pepper to taste. Brown meat and 
then add water. Cook about 1 hour. Thicken gravy slightly. 
Boil l^ cup rice and serve with chop suey. — Mrs. A. Dietrich. 

SCRAPPLE 

Cook trimmings of head, heart, etc. of pork and cook until 
meat drops from bones, remove all skin, etc., then work up fine. 
Strain liquor in which it was boiled to remove scraps of bone. 
Add water to make 5 parts liquid to 3 parts meat. 

Set liquid on stove, add corn meal to make rather thick 
mush, stir smooth and add meat, season with salt, red and black 
pepper. Place in shallow pan and slice as mush and fry in 
slightly greased pan. Serve with chili sauce. 

— Grandmothers' Recipe. 

MEAT LOAF 

About 1 pound pork 2 eggs 

1 round thick steak Pepper, salt, and onion to 

4 slices dry bread (crumbed) taste 

'V2 cup freshly cooked or can- 
ned tomatoes 

Grind meat, add crumbed bread, put tomatoes through a 
sieve and add, season as desired, mold into loaf and sprinkle 
bread or cracker crumbs over loaf. Place in inside pan of 
roaster and bake with water in main roaster in rather hot oven. 
(Milk may be used in place of tomatoes and all cracker crumbs 
instead of bread.) — Mrs. C. R. Ewins. 

SALMON AND BEEF LOAF 

1 can salmon 2 eggs 

1 cup bread or cracker crumbs Salt 

2 tablespoons butter Small onion 
Brown crumbs in butter 

(If made with salmon add a little vinegar.) Use milk with 
liquid to moisten. Bake until firm enough to slice w^hen cooled. 

—Mrs. T. S. Pease, Carlock, III. 



10 FISE AND MEATS 



BEEF LOAF 

2 pounds round steak 1 egg 

1 large slice pork 1 1/^ cups milk 

1 cup cracker crumbs Butter size of an egg 

1 onion Salt and pepper 

Grind beef and pork together, add crumbs, minced onion, 
the unbeaten egg, milk, butter, salt and pepper to taste. Mix 
all ingredients thoroughly. Mold into loaf and bake in mod- 
erate oven 1 hour. — Mrs. W. G. Berg. 

BEEF LOAF 

3 pounds juicy steak 1 cup sweet milk 

Suet Salt and pepper 

y2 cup cracker crumbs Eggs 

Use steak or other good cut of beef, add suet according to 
the fat beef would require and grind together. Roll crackers, 
add with the milk, salt and pepper to taste. Mix well and place 
1/2 of the mixture in a baking pan. Have ready the eggs boiled 
until yolk is well done, remove shell and place end to end length- 
wise of the loaf. Fill in remaining 1/2 of the mixture and bake 
until tender. Delicious gravy may be made with this loaf also. 

—Mrs. R. J. Williams. 



BEEF LOAF 

7 pounds beef, (ground) 1 teaspoon pepper 

% pound pork, (ground) 2 tablespoons butter 

2 cups crackers, (crushed) 7 eggs 

2 tablespoons salt 4 cups milk 

Mix well and bake in 2 loaves for 11/2 to 2 hours. This serves 
25 to 30 people. — Mrs. Claude King. 



Poultry and Dressings 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN 

Prepare the chicken as to fry, salt and flour well. Put into 
a roaster or bread pan 1 tablespoon lard and 1 tablespoon of 
butter, when sizzling hot place in a layer (must be only one 
layer) of the chicken, add pepper and a little more than cover 
with boiling water. Set in oven without lid and cook 2 hours or 
until tender, turning from time to time to make all the pieces a 
nice even brown. Usually makes sufficient gravy of itself for 
serving. Rabbit or squirrel may be prepared in same manner. 

—Mrs. G. B. Dimlap. 

CHICKEN TAMALAE 

3 pints lye hominy (ground) 6 (or less) red peppers, boiled 

1 large chicken, stewed, boned and ground 

and seasoned with salt and 2 spoonfuls melted butter 

pepper Olives 

Season hominy with salt and stir in the red peppers and 
melted butter, mixing thoroughly to a fine paste. Wash a num- 
ber of large inner corn husks and use 3 for each tamalae. 
Spread a corn husk with the hominy paste % inch thick, on this 
place a large spoonful of chicken and olive, over this place 
another husk, spread with the paste and finish covering with the 
third husk. Tie each end and steam 2 hours. 

—Mrs. W. A. Coss. 

CHICKEN A LA KING 

Boil chicken and shred from bones as for cream chicken. 

Place on stove enough milk and cream (half and half) to 
make a cream sauce for the amount of chicken you have, add 
salt and pepper to taste. Chop a green sweet pepper and a red 
one fine and add to the cream, then add 2 well beaten eggs. Stir 
until thick. Add the minced chicken. Serve on toast, on rosettes 
or with baking powder biscuits. — Mrs. R. J. Williams. 

CHICKEN PIE 

Stew chicken until tender, remove bones. Put chicken in 
pan. Thicken the broth as for gravy and pour over chicken. 
Make a biscuit dough, using a little less shortening as for bis- 
cuits, cut out small biscuits, place in gravy and bake tliirty-five 
minutes. Serve from pan. — Mrs. Frank Newlon. 

NUT LOAF 

2 cups bread crumbs % teaspoon paprika 

1 cup nut meats % cup melted butter 

Small part of onion % cup hot water 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

Mix and shape in a loaf and bake. — Mrs. B. F. Springer. 



POULTRY AND DEESSINGS 13 



PRESSED CHICKEN 

Cook chicken until tender, chop fine. Let liquid boil down 
to a cupful; add butter size of an egg, pepper, and a beaten egg. 
Stir thoroughly and add chopped meat. Slice hard boiled eggs, 
lay into the mold and press in the meat.— Miss Mamie Hay. 



CHICKEN DRESSING (DRY) 

1 quart bread crumbs % teaspoon pepper 

1% teaspoons powdered sage Pinch salt 

1 teaspoon minced onion 

Grind sufficient dry bread to make quart crumbs (using the 
coarsest knife). Mix crumbs and other ingredients well. Place 
in one end of roaster in which a chicken is being roasted. Pour 
over the mixture sufficient chicken broth to moisten all well. 
Bake 20 to 25 minutes. Serve at once. — French Chef. 



NOODLES 

2 cups flour 4 eggs 

Place flour in mixing bowl with hollow in the center, beat 
eggs until light, pour in flour, mix with hands until dough is of 
medium stiffness. Divide in equal parts, roll each rather thinly; 
lay aside to dry (use care not to dry too quickly). Place two 
parts together with little flour between; roll and slice thinly; 
let dry slightly and drop in rich chicken or beef stock. Cover 
and boil until done. — Mrs. Susan Dirks. 



DUMPLINGS 

Beat 2 eggs until light with a little salt added. Add 1 cup 
rich milk and stir well. Sift 2 rounding teaspoons baking pow- 
der with 2 cups of flour. Add to milk and eggs and mix into a 
stiff batter. Drop by spoonfuls into a quart of boiling water 
to which a pinch of salt and piece of butter have been added. 
Cover and cook from 7 to 10 minutes. Pour browned butter over 
them when ready to serve. — Mrs. Eugene Nafziger. 

POTATO DUMPLINGS 

1 cup mashed potatoes Sift a cup of flour with 1^ 

Moisten with an egg slightly teaspoon baking powder and 

beaten V2 teaspoon salt 

Mix all together. If mixture is too dry and will not hold 
together add a few drops of water. Add a little chopped parsley 
and drop by spoonfuls in any stew. — Mrs. Sophia Vercler. 



14 POULTBY AND DEES SINGS 



SPOON DUMPLINGS 

1 cup flour 2 well beaten eggs 

1 teaspoon baking powder 2 tablespoons milk 

Salt 

Drop by teaspoons into rich boiling chicken or beef broth 
and boil ten minutes without removing the cover. When done 
add a dash of pepper. — Mrs. Henry Dressier, El Paso, III. 

EGG DUMPLINGS 

1 well beaten egg 2 large teaspoons baking pow- 

Pinch of salt and sugar der sifted throughly 

1 small cup milk 1 pint flour, adding more flour 

1 teaspoon soft butter to make stiff batter 

Have broth boiling, drop in the dumplings with a spoon, 
cover and boil for 20 minutes — Mrs. E. R. Buescher. 

EGGLESS DUMPLINGS 

2 cups flour % cup milk 

4 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons butter 

Salt 

Mix and drop by spoonfuls into hot stock or boiling water 
to which butter has been added.— Mrs. B. F. Springer. 



Mayonnaise and Other Dressings 







WHITE 


SAUCE 




Thin 

Medium 

Thick 


1 

2 
4 


(Fat) 

tablespoon 

tablespoons 

tablespoons 

(Butter) 


(Thickening) 

1 tablespoon 

2 tablespoons 
4 tablespoons 

(Flour) 


(Liquid) 
1 cup 
1 cup 
1 cup 
(Milk) 



Use thin sauce for puddings. Use medium sauce for toma- 
toes, etc. Use thick sauce for croquettes. — Mrs. Eugene Nafziger. 



CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Use 1/2 as much sugar as cranberries, by measure, and ^ 
as much water as sugar. Cook until berries are tender, then 
mold. — Mrs. E. C. Hinshaw. 



SWEET SALAD DRESSING 

2 eggs, well beaten 8 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 8 tablespoons vinegar 

With cold water make a smooth paste of 2 teaspoons flour, 
2 teaspoons mustard and 2 tablespoons butter. Mix in order 
given and cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly. Thin with 
milk or cream if desired. — Mrs. Harry W. Johnston. 



SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

2 cups sour cream 1 pinch pepper 

1 cup granulated sugar 4 eggs 

1 pinch salt 

Beat well, cook in double boiler until hot, remove from fire, 
add 1/4 to 1/2 cup of vinegar, according to its strength, set back 
on stove in double boiler and reheat, serve same as mayonnaise 
dressing. — Mrs. Henry Knapple. 



SALAD DRESSING 

2 egg yolks 1 teaspoon salt 

Beat well and add salad oil, slowly beating after each time 
oil is added. When mixture thickens add taragon vinegar to 
thin, then more oil, beating hard all the time until you have 
the desired quantity. Keep covered and it will keep until all 
is used. All Mazola oil may be used or a combination of Mazola 
and olive oil. Lemon juice may also be used in place of vinegar. 



16 MAYONNAISE AND OTHEE DEESSINGS 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING 

Use 1/2 cup of above dressing and add: 

1 hard boiled egg (chopped) i/^ cup Krafts Roquefort 

2 tablespoons chili sauce cheese mashed fine 

% cup celery cut in small i/^ green pepper (chopped) 

pieces % cup nut meats 

Chopped pickle or olive may be added. 

— Mrs. Hubert L. Kilhy, Jefferson City, Mo. 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING 

1 pint olive oil 1 onion 

3 egg yolks 3 hard boiled eggs 
^2 cup vinegar y^ pint chili sauce 

2 pimentos Salt to taste 
1 green pepper 

Beat eggs, add oil and vinegar drop by drop until all is 
added; whip well. Then stir in other ingredients. 

— Mrs. Floyd Sebastian. 

SALAD DRESSING 

1/4 cup sugar Pinch of salt and pepper 

1 teaspoon mustard % cup of vinegar 

1 teaspoon flour 2 egg yolks 

Boil and add cream when ready to serve. 

—Mrs. J. W. Yoder. 

SALAD DRESSING (COOKED) 



5 teaspoons sugar 


V2 cup vinegar 


2 heaping teaspoons corn 


1/4 teaspoon mustard 


starch 


1 egg 


A little pepper 


Butter size of a walnut 


1 teaspoon salt 





Mix all the dry ingredients together and slowly add vinegar. 
Heat in double boiler, and while so doing beat 1 egg, very light. 
Then pour the seasoned vinegar onto the egg, with the butter. 
Set back over the hot water and cook until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. When cold thin a little with sweet cream, beating 
well. — Mrs. William Fislar. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

Vz tablespoon salt Yolks of 2 eggs 

1% tablespoons sugar % cup milk 

. % tablespoon flour i/4 cup vinegar 

1 teaspoon mustard Dash of pepper 

11^ tablespoons melted butter 

Mix dry ingredients, add yolks well beaten, add butter, milk 
and vinegar, slowly stir over boiling water until mixture thickens. 
A cup of cream may be added before serving on salad. 

— Mrs. A. E. Scharfenberg. 



MAYONNAISE AND OTHEB DRESSINGS 



17 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING 



% cup sugar 
1 tablespoon flour 
14 teaspoon mustard (heap- 
ing) 
14 teaspoon salt (level) 
1/4 teaspoon white pepper 



Few grains cayenne pepper 
3 or better 4 egg yolks 

1 cup vinegar slightly weak- 
ened with water if very sour 

2 tablespoons melted butter 



Mix dry ingredients, beat yolks with Dover egg beater, then 
with spoon gradually beat in dry mixture, beat until very light. 
Heat vinegar and butter to boiling point, pour into above, stir 
well, return to pan and stove, boil until it thickens. Add tea- 
spoon lemon juice if desired. Rich sweet cream may be added 
before serving. Quantity of dressing, 1 pint. (Bottled vinegar 
preferred) .^ — Miss Edna L. Stephens. 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING 



4 tablespoons butter melted 
Add 2 tablespoons flour 
Then 1 cup milk 



Stir until it thickens 

Add 3 well beaten eggs mixed 

with Yz cup vinegar 



Let come to a boil and remove from stove. Add 1 teaspoon 
salt, % teaspoon mustard, 1 teaspoon pepper and 2 teaspoons of 
sugar.— Mrs. Eugene Nafziger. 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING 



Yolks of 6 eggs 
y2 teaspoon salt 
14 teaspoon pepper 
1 small teaspoon mustard 



cup sugar 
cup cream 
cup vinegar 
Lump of butter 



Beat yolks, add dry ingredients, beat until light, add vinegar 
and butter (hot), then cook and thin with the cream. 

— Mrs. Claude King. 



11 


egg yolks 


% 


cup vinegar 


% 


cup water 


V2 


cup sugar 


1 


teaspoon dry mustard 



VELVET SALAD DRESSING 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour 
2 tablespoons butter 

24 marshmallows quartered if 
desired 

Beat egg yolks very light, to which add the vinegar and the 
water. Blend sugar, mustard, salt and flour together and add. 
Place in rounded bottom bowl, set this bowl in another pan with 
enough water to keep the mixture from coming in direct con- 
tact with heat. Whip mixture very hard till it thickens, using 
wire egg beater. Add butter after it is removed from fire. Where 
marshmallows are added allow it to cool thoroughly. Olive oil 
may be used in place of butter. — Miss Hannah Alwes. 



Vegetable Salads 



WHITE GRAPE SALAD 

1 pound white grapes cut in (Use only the choice inner 
halves and seeded stalks) 

2 cups celery cut in cubes, 1 cup pecan meats used whole 

or broken as desired 

Mix with mayonnaise dressing or serve with dressing over 
top on salad plates. — Mrs. I. M. Artis. 

SWEET POTATO SALAD 

2 cups sweet potato 6 small or 3 large sweet cu- 

1 heaping cup celery cumber pickles 

Salt and cook sweet potatoes. When cold cut into cubes, 
add celery and pickle minced finely, and serve garnished with 
yellow celery tips and cooked mayonnaise dressing. 

— Paper — Tested. 

PERFECTION SALAD 

1 envelope Knox acidulated % cup sugar 

gelatine i/4 can sweet red peppers finely 
y2 cup cold water cut 

Vz cup mild vinegar 1 cup finely shredded cabbage 

1 pint boiling water 2 cups celery cut in small 

1 teaspoon salt pieces 
Vz teaspoon lemon flavoring 

found in separate envelope 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes, add vinegar, lemon 
flavoring, boiling water, sugar and salt. Stir until dissolved. 
Strain and when beginning to set add remaining ingredients. 
Turn in a mold, first dipping in cold water and chill. Serve on 
lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. — Mrs. G. B. Dunlap. 

VEGETABLE SALAD 

6 large potatoes boiled and Yolks of 3 hard boiled eggs 

sliced thin worked up fine 

% cup finely cut red cabbage 1 green pepper cut fine, 
3 tablespoons chopped pickles Butter size of an egg 

2 chopped onions 1 tablespoon flour 
2 chopped apples 

Chop all separately and mix. 

Dressing 

1 tablespoon celery seed V2 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon of salt V2 cup vinegar 

Pepper to taste 1 tablespoon butter 

Warm butter and vinegar on stove, add above, stir until it 
boils, on back of stove. Add 2 well beaten egg yolks. When thick 
take from stove. — Mrs. A. B. G. 



20 VEGETABLE SALADS 



MANHATTAN SALAD 

1 package lemon jello 1 cup tart apples, (diced) 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup finely cut eelery 

1 pint boiling water % cup blanched English wal- 

Dissolve and set aside to nuts broken in small pieces 

cool ^4 teaspoon red apple peel 

Mince the peeling and mix all lightly together. Fill pyrex 
custard cups -3 full, pour over the jello. When set immerse in 
hot water, turn out on a lettuce leaf and serve with the boiled 
mayonnaise dressing. — Miss Edna L. Stephens. 

APPLE SALAD 

2 cups chopped apples 1 cup seeded and halved grapes 

1 cup diced celery 

Marinate in the following dressing diluted with cream (bet- 
ter if whipped before using) : 

3 egg yolks 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup vinegar ( i^ vinegar and 1 tablespoon flour 

% water) 1 tablespoon butter 

% cup sugar 

Cook in a double boiler until thick and use about % cup of 
dressing and equal amount of cream. 

—Mrs. C. R. McDonald, Carlock, III. 

POTATO SALAD 

1 quart cold boiled potatoes ^ teaspoon salt 

1 onion finely sliced Chopped parsley 

Mix with mayonnaise dressing and serse on lettuce leaves. 

— Mrs. Tony Dirks. 

POTATO SALAD 

2 cups diced or sliced pota- 1 cup diced celery 

toes 1 small onion chopped fine 

Dressing 

3 egg yolks 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup vinegar ( ^ vinegar 1 tablespoon flour 

and % water) 1 tablespoon butter 
% cup sugar 

Cook in double boiler until thick and dilute with whipped 
cream to right consistencv to mix with other ingredients. 

—Mrs. C. R. McDonald, Carlock, III. 

BEAN SALAD 

Drain the liquor from 1 can kidney beans, add little more 
than half that quantity of finely cut celer\', nut meats and minced 
pickle to suit taste. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. 

—Mrs. Cele Daniel. 



VEGETABLE SALADS 21 



GREEN BEAN SALAD 

Cook green string beans until tender, salting slightly or use 
canned beans. Add shredded cabbage or finely cut celery or 
both if desired, add sufficient minced sweet cucumber pickle to 
flavor and mix with any good salad dressing. — Mrs. Geo. Hill. 

BEAN SALAD 

1 can Pork and Beans 1 large sweet green pepper 

2 cups diced boiled ham Salt and pepper 
1 good sized onion 

Mix all thoroughly and when ready to serve place on lettuce 
leaves and cover with good dressing. Boiled (hard) eggs may 
be placed on top. — Mrs. E. R. Buescher. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Cut cold boiled chicken in dice. Add equal amount celery 
cut fine. 1 cup blanched almonds cut in halves. Season with 
salt and' pepper. Stir into this a few tablespoons mayonnaise. 
Set away for an hour or more. Just before serving arrange on 
lettuce leaves. Cover with thick mayonnaise. Garnish with 
celery tips, olives and pimentos cut in strips. 

— Mrs. E. R. Buescher. 



COMBINATION SALAD 

1 Vz cups chicken or any cold 1 small pickle sliced 

meat, salmon or sardines 2 tablespoons diced pimento 

^ cup chopped nuts % cup celery cut very fine 

Method. — Mix thoroughly and marinate lightly with mayon- 
naise. Arrange on a bed of lettuce or parsley. Mask with % 
package lemon Jello, pinch salt and V2 pint boiling water. When 
the Jello is firm and you are ready to serve it, beat lightly with 
fork, dropping in a few pieces of white grapes or maraschino 
cherries and jSace on top of salad. May be used as a vegetable 
salad by substituting potatoes instead of meat and small dices 
of red apple in Jello. — Miss Beatrice Massie, Bloomington, III. 

MOLDED SALMON SALAD 

One package lemon Jello prepared as directed on the face 
of package. After it starts to jell add 1 cup salmon, Vo cup diced 
celery, 6 stuffed olives or pimentoes. Turn into mold and turn 
out on lettuce leaf and serve with mayonnaise or any desired 
dressing. — Miss Aiirelle Barclay. 



Relishes and Catsups 



INDIAN RELISH 



1 peck ripe tomatoes (chop- V2 cup salt 

ped and drained) % tablespoon white mustard 

2 cups chopped celery seed 

6 onions 2 tablespoons grated horse- 

3 red peppers (take out radish 

seeds and chop) 1% quarts vinegar 
iy2 lbs. brown sugar 

Do not cook or scald. Can in cold can and seal. 

— Mrs. I. M. Artis. 



UNCOOKED TOMATO RELISH 





Peel 1 peck ripe tomatoes 


2 


cups chopped celery 




Drain two hours 


2 


cups brown sugar 




Add 


3 


cups vinegar 


6 


onions 


1 


cup salt 


3 


red peppers 


2 


ounces white mustard seed 



Mix thoroughly and seal in jars. — Mrs. Alice Musselman. 



RIPE TOMATO RELISH 

6 ripe tomatoes % cup sugar 

2 onions 1 teaspoon salt 

2 bunches celery Pinch of pepper 

Put on the stove 1 cup of 

mild vinegar 

Heat till sugar is melted, let cool, then pour over the con- 
tents. — Mrs. E. A. Kinsinger. 



RIPE TOMATO RELISH 

12 medium size ripe tomatoes 2 tablespoons sugar 

4 red or 3 green pepp'ers 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

2 large onions 3 cups vinegar 

2 tablespoons salt 

Peel tomatoes and onions and chop separately very fine, add 
peppers chopped with other ingredients and boil IV2 hours or 
until thick. — Mrs. L. E. Skaggs. 



CORN RELISH 



10 


cups corn 


3 tablespoon black pepper 


3 


tablespoon white mustard 


1 can red peppers 




seed 


2 qts. vinegar 


3 


tablespoon celery seed 


2 cups sugar 



Boil % hour and seal. — Mrs. Fred Miller. 



24 EE LI SEES AND CATSUPS 

CORN RELISH OR SALAD 

18 large ears of sweet corn 1% lb. of "C" sugar 

2 green peppers 2 teaspoons of mixed spices 

4 large onions (white) (tied in sack) 

% lb. ground mustard 2 quarts vinegar 

1 head cabbage Salt to taste. 

1 red pepper (seeded) 

Boil thirty minutes. — Mrs. John I. Jarrett. 

CHOW CHOW 

1 gallon chopped cabbage 2 chopped red peppers (the 

% gallon chopped green sweet one preferred) 

tomatoes 1 pint sugar 

1 pint chopped ripe tomatoes 1 or. celery seed 

% pint chopped onions % cup white mustard seed 

1/4 pint grated horseradish % oz. tumeric 

2 chopped green peppers ly-i quart vinegar 

% pint mixed spices 

Scald and can. Makes about 6 quarts. 

—Miss Eva J. Hall 

PICCALILLI 

1 peck green tomatoes 6 cups sugar 

1 head cabbage 2 green peppers 

2 tablespoons mustard seed 2 bunches celery 
Vz cup mixed spices 14 gal. vinegar 

3 onions 

Boil 2 hours. Bottle hot. Chop tomatoes, sprinkle with salt 
and put in press over night. Next morning squeeze out of liquor 
and add to chopped cabbage, onions, celery and peppers and 
other ingredients. — Mrs. E. C. Hinshaw. 

COLD CATSUP 

1 peck ripe tomatoes 1 % quarts vinegar 

2 cups chopped celery 2 pints brown sugar 
6 chopped peppers % cup salt 

6 chopped onions 

Peel tomatoes without scalding, chop all ingredients sepa- 
rately. Thoroughly squeeze out juice of each to avoid fermenta- 
tion. Then to pulp add the vinegar, sugar and salt, mix well 
and can. — Mrs. Arthur Twenty. 

COOKED CATSUP 

15 pints tomatoes 1 onion 

3 pints vinegar 2 sticks cinnamon bark 

4 pints sugar 2 tablespoons of mixed spices 
2 red and green peppers Salt to taste 

(seeded) 

Cook tomatoes and run through the colander before measur- 
ing. Remove peppers and onion before bottling and tie spices 
in a cloth. — Mrs. Arthur Twenty. 



BE LI SEES AND CATSUPS 



25 



1 quart tomatoes 
1 cup vinegar 
Yz cup sugar 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 



CHILI SAUCE 

2 
1 



teaspoon cloves 
medium onions (cut fine) 
teaspoon salt 
Little red pepper 



Cook until it thickens. — Mrs. G. B. Dunlap. 



CHILI SAUCE 



1 peck ripe tomatoes 

2 cups chopped onions 
2 cups chopped celery 
2 cups sugar 

1^ cup salt 
4 oz. white mustard 

Cook until thick enough to serve and bottle hot. 

— Mrs. F. E. Risser. 



1 teaspoon powdered mace 

1 teaspoon black pepper 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

4 chopped green peppers 

3 quarts vinegar 



Pickles 



SPICED CANTALOUPES 

Eight good sized cantaloupes. — Pare, cut in halves and let 
lay in vinegar 24 hours. Then to 1 quart vinegar, take 2 pounds 
sugar and plenty whole spices and boil all together until thor- 
oughly transparent. — Mrs. T. J. Twining, Bloomington, III. 



BEET SLAW 

1 quart cooked chopped beets 1 teaspoon salt 

2 quarts chopped raw cab- 1 V^ cups sugar 
bage Vz cup vinegar 

Simmer on back of stove for an hour or so and fill into hot 
cans. — Miss Helen Springer. 



SLICED CUCUMBER PICKLE 
(Very aood) 

To 6 quarts of sliced cucumbers take 1 quart of sliced onions, 
sprinkle with salt, let stand 3 hours and drain. 2^/2 cups vinegar, 
11/4 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon pickling spices (in a bag) let boil 
a few minutes, put cucumbers in and cook 15 minutes and can 
immediately. — Mrs. W. J. McChire. 

.BEET PICKLES 

Boil beets, peel and cut if 1 teaspoon cinnamon essence 

too large for cans V^ teaspoon clove essence 

2 % cups sugar % teaspoon celery seed 
3 cups vinegar 

Tie seeds in small sack and allow mixture to Soil; when 
boiling add beets and when liquid boils again, can in hot cans, 
adding a few pieces of horse radish to each can. Liquid cans 
about 3 quarts. — Mrs. Susan Stephens. 

SWEET DILL PICKLES 

About 50 cents worth of firm dill pickles, soak over night in 
cold water and next morning wipe dry and cut in 1 inch pieces. 
Boil following ingredients together 20 minutes: 1 pint vinegar, 
3 pints granulated sugar, and about amount of stick cinnamon 
and whole cloves that can be purchased for 10 and 5 cents. Pour 
over pickles while hot and next morning pour off vinegar and 
reheat and pour over them again if liquid does not cover pickles 
add sugar and vinegar, — Mrs. C. R. Ewins. 



PICKLES 27 

CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Cut pickles, leaving slight part of stem, then wash and drain 
and pack closely in stone jar. Make weak brine and heat to 
boiling heat and pour over pickles. Pour off and reheat for 4 
mornings, then make a weak vinegar, add lump of alum size of 
hulled walnut, then heat to boiling heat and pour over pickles. 
Pour oft" and reheat this mixture for 2 mornings. On ninth morn- 
ing pour off vinegar and drain pickles dry. Place in glass jars, 
adding 4 or 5 pieces of horse radish cut in small pieces and 2 
pieces each of green and red chopped pepper. Heat to boiling, 
1 cup white wine vinegar, 3 cups granulated sugar, 2 teaspoons 
cinnamon extract, i/^ teaspoon of clove essence, pour over pickles 
and seal hot. Cans 2 quarts. 

— Mrs. L. F. Stephens, Carlock, III. 



MUSKMELON PICKLE 

Take ripe muskmelons, remove seeds and peeling and cut 
into pieces. Put in stone jar and cover with scalding vinegar 
and allow to stand until next day, pour off the vinegar, heat it 
and pour over muskmelon again. Repeat every day for 3 days. 
Weigh the melon and to every 5 pounds of melon add 3 pounds 
of white sugar and one quart white wine vinegar and spices to 
suit taste. Put all together and simmer until tender. The next 
day but one pour off the syrup and boil it down until there is just 
enough left to cover the melon.^ — Mrs. S. D. 



MIXED PICKLE 

1 head of cabbage 1 quart of carrots 

1 quart of cooked string beans 3 green peppers chopped 

1 quart of chopped onions 1 teaspoon celery seed 

1 quart of corn 1 teaspoon mustard seed 

1 quart of cooked lima beans 7 cups sugar 

1 quart of small pickles 1 gallon vinegar 

Put all together and boil until tender. Put into jars and 
seal. — Mrs. Chas. Struhhar. 



TOMATO MANGO PICKLE 

1 dozen large green tomatoes (Pour boiling water over for 

2 dozen green sweet mango ten minutes) drain 
peppers 3 bunches chopped celery 

1 dozen onions chopped 1 tablespoon salt 

Mix with the above: 

3 pints vinegar 2 cups sugar 

Bring to boiling point, add all the mixture and boil 10 
minutes. — Donated by a friend. 



28 



PICKLES 



MIXED MUSTARD PICKLE 



1 quart cucumbers cut in cubes 
1 quart chopped green toma- 
toes 
1 quart (cubed onions) 

Soak all in salt water 2 hours and then drain. 



1 quart chopped celery 
1 quart cauliflower 
3 mango peppers 



Dressing for Above 



1 cup flour 
1 % cups brown sugar 
3 teaspoons mustard 



1 tablespoon celery seed 
1 tablespoon tumeric seed 



Mix and add 2 pints vinegar. Boil and pour over pickles. If 
too thick thin with vinegar (not water). — Mrs. Harvey Miller. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHES OR PEARS 



7 lbs. peaches 
5 lbs. sugar 
1 pint vinegar 



1 cup water 
% cup stick cinnamon 
% cup whole cloves 



Remove the skins from the peaches by paring or by dipping 
in boiling water, then in cold water. Place peaches in the hot 
syrup until they are well cooked. Reduce the syrup and with it, 
fill the jars to overflow. Close jar as in canning fruit. 

— Mrs. Homer Barclay. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 



24 good sized green tomatoes 
4 peppers 
8 onions 
4 cups sugar 
8 cups vinegar 



tablespoons salt 
cup white mustard seed 
ground coarsely 
tablespoon cinnamon 



Chop all separate. Squeeze juice out of tomatoes and boil 
until thick. — Mrs. L. E. Skaggs. 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 



1 peck green tomatoes 

1 cup celery 

1 cup onions 

1 cup green peppers 



1 cup red peppers 

% teaspoon mustard seed 

2 cups sugar 

6 cups vinegar 



Chop and soak in salt water and drain, 
cold vinegar. — Mrs. B. F. Springer. 



Put into a jar of 



Vegetable and Casserole Dishes 



RICE PATTIES 



V2 cup rice cooked tender % cup cracker crumbs 

Where cool add: Salt and pepper to taste 

2 well beaten eggs 

Mold into "Patties" and fry in butter. — Mrs. J. F. Spencer. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS 

Pare large green cucumbers and cut in slices I/4 inch thick. 
Season slices with salt and pepper and dip in flour. Fry in drip- 
pings until each slice is verv brown and tender. 

—Mrs. W. A. Coss. 



CORN FRITTERS 

Add to 1 can of corn, 1 cup flour, l^/^ teaspoons baking 
powder, yolks of 2 eggs beaten light, 1 teaspoon salt and fold in 
whites of stiffly beaten eggs. Fry in hot lard and drain on 
white paper. — Mrs. W. J. McCIure. 

CREAMED CARROTS 

Wash and scrape carrots and cut in dices. Cover with boil- 
ing water and boil until tender. Drain and serve with cream 
sauce or melted butter. Sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

— Mrs. Tony Dirks. 

CREAMED ONIONS 

Cook small onions (about one inch in diameter) until tender, 
and drain. Pour over them a thin white sauce. Add butter and 
garnish with parsley. — Miss Margaret M. Dirks. 

CREAMED POTATOES 

2 cups diced potatoes 2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 teaspoon salt 

Add just enough water to cook soft. Then add a creamed 
dressing made of 14 cup cream and 2 tablespoons flour. 

—Mrs. J. W. Yoder. 

CREAMED CABBAGE 

Slice fine a small head of cabbage, season with salt and 
pepper. Cook in a saucepan with just enough water to keep 
from burning, drain. Take ^4 cup sour cream, butter size of an 
egg, and tablespoon of flour, boil and pour over cabbage. 

—Mrs. J. R. Perry, Stanford, III. 



VEGETABLE AND CASSEEOLE DISHES 31 

ESCALLOPED EGG PLANT 

1 egg plant Pepper, salt and celery seed 

1 small onion (if desired) 3 cups buttered crumbs 

1 egg 

Pare egg plant and cut in i/2-inch cubes. Cook in very salty 
water (without cover on kettle) until egg plant is soft and 
brownish in color. Drain well, add well beaten egg, the pepper, 
salt, and celery seed to taste and onion chopped fine that has 
been fried in fat. Mix above well. Place half of buttered 
crumbs in buttered casserole, then egg plant mixture and re- 
maining half of crumbs. Bake in oven 30 minutes. 

— Miss Zelda C. Anthony. 

BAKED POTATO 

(In the Half Shell) 

Bake large potato in a hot oven 45 or 60 minutes. Remove 
and cut potato lengthwise, remove pulp with care to prevent 
breaking shell. Cream pulp until light, add 2 tablespoons warm 
milk, 1 level tablespoon butter and salt to taste to each potato 
served. Cream again until very fluffy, put back into shell and 
bake until it browns. Serv^e at once. — Miss Zelda C. Anthony. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES 

Peel and halve 6 medium sized sweet potatoes. Place in pan 
with the flat side up, sprinkle with a little salt, add % cup sugar 
(brown or white), 1 tablespoon butter and 1 pint boiling water. 
Bake in oven and when nearly ready to remove from oven, place 
a marshmallow on each half. Serve hot. 

—Mrs. R. L. Schertz. 

STEAK EN CASSEROLE 

Cut steak in pieces right size to serve; roll in flour and fry 
brown. Put in casserole and cover with a thin gravy. Cook 
slowly about 2 hours in oven. — Mrs. E. C. Hinshaw. 

CASSEROLE LUNCH 

y2 lb. cold boiled ham flavor 

4 cooked potatoes Salt and pepper to taste 

1 green pepper Cream and milk to moisten 

Pimento and cheese to 

Put layer of diced potatoes in casserole then a layer of the 
ground ham and then cheese pimento, salt and pepper and when 
casserole is filled add milk to moisten and cover ingredients and 
bake % to % of an hour. 

—Mrs. F. L. Belsley, Washington, III. 
(Handed in by a Danvers friend) 



32 VEGETABLE AND CASSEEOLE DISHES 



MACARONI AND TOMATOES 

(Casserole Dish) 

Boil 1 cup macaroni until tender. In a buttered casserole 
place a layer of the macaroni, add 1 tablespoon grated cream 
cheese, 2 tablespoons cooked tomatoes, sprinkle of minced onion, 
butter, salt and pepper to taste; continue until casserole is nearly 
full, add a thick layer of cracker crumbs and dots of butter 
over the top. Pour over mixture sufficient sweet milk to moisten 
all well and bake about 20 minutes or until nicely browned. 
Serve at once. — Mrs. Lewis Stephens, Congerville, III. 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Butter casserole or pudding dish, next place a layer of rolled 
cracker crumbs, moisten with oyster liquor and milk; next 
place a layer of oysters, sprinkle with salt, pepper and butter. 
Continue until have quantity desired, using more oysters than 
crumbs and last add a thicker layer of cracker crumbs than 
others. Beat an egg, add to sufficient rich milk to moisten all well, 
pour over mixture, dot thickly with butter. Cover and bake 30 
minutes, remove lid, brown and serve at once. 

—Mrs. R. L. Schertz. 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS AND CORN 

Strain liquor off 1 can of cove oysters. Mix with 1 can corn, 
place a layer of rolled cracker crumbs in buttered casserole. 
Moisten with little oyster liquor and milk, add layer of oysters, 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and butter, then layer of corn, etc., 
finishing with layer of crackers. Pour over this mixture suffi- 
cient rich milk to moisten thoroughly. Bake same as scalloped 
corn and serve at once. — Mrs. Walter Nafziger. 

Variation of Same Dish 

A combination of salmon and corn may be used in same 
manner by adding 1 egg to salmon. — Committee's Note. 



SPANISH RICE 

1 cup washed rice 2 medium pimentos cut fine 

2 cups tomato juice 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups water 1 tablespoon butter 

2 medium onions cut fine 

Allow to come to boil on top of stove, then bake 11/2 hours 
covered. Might be served in green pepper halves. 

— Mrs. E. M. Minnick. 



VEGETABLE AND CASSEROLE DISHES 33 

ESCALLOPED RICE 
(Casserole Dish) 
Put 1 cup uncooked rice in 4 cups rapidly boiling water, let 
cook until dry in double boiler. Combine 1 tablespoon butter, 
2 of flour, add 1 cup boiling milk, let boil up, season with salt and 
paprika. Butter casserole, put in a layer of the cream sauce, 
one of rice, one of grated cheese. Repeat and lastly cover with 
bread crumbs and dots of butter. Pimentoes or green mangoes 
add to its flavor. Bake 30 minutes. This requires 14 lb. of cheese. 
Serves 12 people. — Miss Helen Springer. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

1 quart Navy beans 2 tablespoons molasses 

1 tablespoon salt 1 cupful tomato juice 

V2 tablespoon mustard V2 pound fat pork 

3 tablespoons sugar 

Cook beans on stove until swollen. Mix and bake slowly 8 
hours. — Miss Elsie E. Lamdin. 



HEINZ BAKED BEANS 

Soak 1 gallon of navy beans 8 to 15 hours. Change water 
once, tepid water will hurry this process. Blanch in boiling water 
2 minutes, place a small piece of bacon in bottom of can, then 
fill with beans, place small piece of bacon on top, cover with 
tomato sauce, hot. Seal as to cook in steam cooker. Cook 2^/2 
to 3 hours. Quantity, 18 pints. 

Tomato Sauce 

1 quart tomato pulp 1 V2 ounce of corn starcli 

Good V2 pound of sugar Add water to make 1 

4 ounces of salt gallon 

Bring other ingredients to boiling heat, dissolve cornstarch 
in little cold water add to boiled mixture, then remove to back 
of stove and pour over each can of beans. — Mrs. W. J. McClure. 



Egg Dishes 



EGG GOLDENROD 

Boil eggs until yolks arc firm. Remove from shells, separate 
whites and yolks. Chop the whites fine. Make a cream sauce 
and add the whites to the sauce. Serve on toast. When ready to 
serve sprinkle the crumpled yolks over the top of the white 
sauce. — Mrs. R. 7. Williams. 



SHIRRED EGGS 

Three heaping tablespoons flour, a pinch of salt. Make a 
batter with sweet milk and beat in 3 or 4 eggs. Put a large 
spoonful of lard into a skillet and when hot, pour in the batter 
and when baked brown underneath turn by cutting or shirring 
into pieces about the size of walnuts. This makes a nice break- 
fast dish when potatoes are scarce. — Mrs. Tony Dirks. 



EGGS IN NEST 

Separate as many eggs as needed and beat the whites to a 
stiff froth. Drop irregularly on a flat buttered baking dish, dust 
with salt and pepper, slide carefully the raw yolks into middle 
of whites and put a small bit of butter on each yolk. Place dish 
in hot oven 8 minutes, serve immediately. Individual baking 
dishes may be used. — Mrs. J. W. Yoder. 



DEVILED EGGS 

6 eggs Scant % teaspoon ground 

3 teaspoons sugar mustard 

Dash white pepper 3 teaspoons vinegar 

1/4 teaspoon salt 1 good teaspoon thick sour 

cream 

Boil eggs 5 minutes. After they start boiling. Drain off 
water, cover with cold water. Remove shell, halve lengthwise. 
To the yolks add sugar, pepper, salt, mustard, vinegar and cream. 
Mix until smooth with a spoon. Carefully place mixture in each 
white. Season to taste as some vinegar is stronger than other. 

—"An Old-Fashioned Cook." 

DEVILED EGGS 

Boil 1 dozen eggs. When cool remove the shells, cut in half 
lengthwise and remove yolks. Rub yolks to a paste with 3 table- 
spoons vinegar, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 saltspoon salt and 1 of 
pepper. To this add 1/2 cup of cold ham minced fine, then fill 
whites with this mixture and garnish with lettuce leaves. 

— Mrs. A. P. Tyner. 



36 EGG DISHES 



CHEESE LOAF 

1 lb. cheese ground V2 dozen small Heintz sweet 

4 hard boiled eggs pickles ground 

Mash the yolks, chop whites fine. Mix all together and 
moisten with a little mayonnaise, add dash of pepper, (white) 
and little cayenne. Press in a mold or dish and set in a cool 
place an hour or so, then it is ready to slice. If desired add 
chopped pimento and chopped nuts. — A Friend. 

CREAMED EGGS 

Butter as many muffin pans as you wish to serve eggs. Break 
one egg in each pan, add salt and pepper to taste and 1 teaspoon 
cream on each egg. Set in oven until white of egg is set. Re- 
move and serve immediately on buttered toast. 

—Mrs. J. W. Yoder. 



Sandwiches 



TEA SANDWICHES 

Cut brown bread in fancy shapes, stars, diamonds, etc. 
Spread with a layer of Philadelphia cream cheese and over this 
sprinkle a layer of finely chopped peanuts and place on top of 
each sandwich a cube of jelly. — Mrs. Clark S. Jarrett. 



MARSHMALLOW AND PECAN SANDWICHES 

1 cup pecans 12 marshmallows 

Chop pecans as fine as possible; cut marshmallows and 
place in a double boiler to melt. When soft add nuts and spread 
on thin slices of Boston brown bread which is better baked in 
round loaves. — Miss Hannah Alwes. 



DREAM SANDWICHES 

Cut slices of brick cheese about i/4 inch thick, place slices of 
cheese between 2 slices of sandwich bread. Season the cheese 
with salt and a little cayenne pepper, then place the sandwich in 
a gas range and allow to remain until the bread is toasted and the 
cheese melted. — Miss Mary Evelyn Stephenson. 



PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICHES 

Thinly sliced bread with but- Boiled mayonnaise dressing 

ter spread generously Cucumber pickles 

1 can peanut butter 

In mixing bowl beat into the peanut butter sufficient mayon- 
naise to make it creamy, the mayonnaise having been previously 
thinned with pickle juice, then stir in the finely chopped pickle 
and also olives if desired and spread on bread. Add lettuce leaf 
and other half of bread. 

— Miss Marjorie Robinson, Bloomington, III. 



PIMENTO AND CHEESE SANDWICHES 

1 cup chopped cream cheese Dash of red pepper 

1 can pimentos V2 teaspoon salt 

2 hard boiled eggs 1 tablespoon olive oil or but- 
% green peppers ter 

Place pimentos in a chopping bowl with a tablespoon of the 
liquid in which they have been canned: Add eggs, cheese and 
green peppers. Chop these together until fine, then add butter or 
oil, salt, cayenne pepper and mash thoroughly, and it is ready to 
spread. Very little butter need be spread on the bread where 
oil or butter is used in the mixture. — Miss Hannah Alwes. 



38 SANDWICHES 



DATE SANDWICHES 

1 package dates (seeded) 1 cup rolled oats 

Good V2 cup sugar % cup lard and butter 

1 cup water i/^ cup sour milk 
Boil until juice thickens % teaspoon soda 

2 cups flour Salt 

Mix dry the flour, oats and salt, dissolve soda in milk. Mix 
as any dough. Roll i/^ dough and place in 12-inch square or 
small oblong pan, pour over the cooled filling, place other half 
dough over top of filling and bake. Cut in oblong bars when 
ready to use. — Miss Edna L. Dressier, El Paso, III. 

SANDWICH FILLINGS 

1. Minced ham, pimentos and salad dressing. 

2. Minced ripe olives, lettuce and salad dressing. 

3. % cake sweet chocolate and 1 tablespoon of butter, 
melted, and % cup nuts. 

4. 1 lb. raisins, V2 lb. nuts. Put through a food chopper and 
moisten with lemon or orange juice. 

5. Minced ham or chicken and mayonnaise and nuts. 

6. Cottage or cream cheese and piinentoes. 

7. Whole wheat bread spread with butter and a paste made 
of 3 cooked figs, 6 English walnuts, and 1 teaspoon lemon Juice. 

8. V2 of a hard cooked egg finely chopped and seasoned 
with Ys teaspoon salt, % teaspoon mustard, % teaspoon vinegar 
and a few grains of pepper. 

9. Two crackers spread with butter, one sprinkled with 
brown sugar and other with finely shaved sweet chocolate. 

10. One cup shredded cocoanut, i/^ cup powdered sugar and 
orange juice to make a paste. Spread on brown bread. 

— Mrs. Eugene Nafziger. 



Yeast Breads 



FLEISCHMANN'S YEAST BREAD 

4 cups luke warm water 2 tablespoons fat 

1 cake yeast 4 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons white Karo syrup 3 pounds flour 

Soak yeast cake in I/2 cup luke warm water (for every cup 
of liquid called for in recipe use 14 cake yeast). Make sponge 
of liquid called for (deducting 1/2 cup used for yeast) and I/2 of 
flour, add the syrup, fat, salt and soaked yeast. Beat vigorously 
and set aside in a place free from drafts over night. In the 
morning add remainder of ingredients and beat until stiff, let 
rise and make into loaves, let rise and bake. Makes four loaves. 

Note. — Do not grease top of dough while in above process. 



BREAD MADE WITH MILK 

1 cup luke warm milk 1 teaspoon fat 
Vi cake yeast, (Fleischmanns) 1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons white syrup 3 cups flour 

Proceed as with bread made of water. Makes 1 loaf. 

Note. — Milk bread is more nourishing, more tender, of better 
flavor and more creamy in color. One half each of water and 
milk may be used.^ — Miss Aiirelle Barclay. 



HOME MADE YEAST BREAD 
Yeast 

1 cake Yeast Foam 1 pint flour 

Vz cup warm water 2 heaping tablespoons sugar 

2 teaspoons flour 1 teaspoon ginger 
Large handful hops 1 tablespoon salt 

Soak yeast in water, when soft, stir in flour. Boil hops (in 
cloth sack) in enough water to have 1 quart when done. Scald 
flour, sugar, ginger and salt with hop water and stir well. When 
cool add yeast, stir let rise until light. Stir in suflicient corn meal 
to roll. Mark into squares or crumble. Let dry and keep in a 
glass can. 

Sponge 

Small handful yeast 1 pint flour 

Vz cup warm water 1 quart boiling water 

Soak yeast in warm water. Scald flour with boiling water 
(or potato water) and beat well. When cool add yeast, stir well 
and set in warm place overnight. In morning add 1 quart warm 
water, tablespoon each salt and sugar, little lard and flour. Let 
rise in sponge and proceed as any bread. Makes 3 or 4 loaves. 

—Mrs. J. H. Engel. 



YEAST BEE ADS 



41 



SALT RISING BREAD 

At night peel and slice real thin 2 Irish potatoes. Add 1 
teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons corn meal and 1 tablespoon sugar. 
Then add 1 quart boiling water. Keep in a warm place until 
morning. Then take out potatoes, add 1 cup boiling sweet milk 
and flour to make stiff batter. Set in vessel of warm water and 
let rise until light and fluft'y. Requires 3 or 4 hours for this 
batter to get light. When light mix into dough and mold into 
loaves, let rise and bake. This bread requires more warmth 
than yeast bread. — Mrs. Gay Brown, Curlock, III. 



1/4 cake yeast foam 



WHITE BREAD 

Sponge 

1 cup luke warm water 



Soak 2 hours, then mix flour to make a fairly stiff batter; 
let this rise until evening when it should be fairly light. Boil 
1 medium sized potato, mash and add a scant half cup sugar, and 
salt enough for bread. Scald with potato water and 2 quarts 
boiling water, let cool, then add yeast, cover and set in a warm 
place over night. 

Dough 
In morning skim yeast and strain, then mix yeast with 
enough flour to make a sponge. When light add 1 level table- 
spoon lard and let rise twice. Makes 4 good loaves. Use care 
to use only fresh Yeast Foam. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

Make sponge same as for white bread and add a little extra 
sugar, 1 cup scalded milk (cooled to 90 degrees), 1 tablespoon 
lard and add about 1/3 Graham flour with white flour to stiffen. 
Let rise same as white bread. Use care not to rise too much 
before baking as the bread will be coarse. 

—Mrs. T. S. Pease, Carlock, III. 



YEAST FOAM BREAD 



Yz cake yeast foam 

% cup warm water 

1 quart luke warm water 

1 cup sifted flour 

2 medium sized potatoes 



(With Potatoes) 



% pint potato water 

or same of clear water 
1 tablespoon sugar 
1 tablespoon salt 



Soak yeast in water (1/2 cup water and add tablespoon flour 
when soft may be used, let rise until foamy). Make batter of 
water and flour. Boil potatoes and mash very fine, add with the 
half pint water. Stir in sugar, salt and flour if not right consist- 
ency. Beat until smooth, add yeast, let rise overnight. In the 
morning add flour to stiffen, knead about 20 minutes. Let rise, 
work down, let rise again. Make into loaves, let rise and bake. 
Makes 3 large or 4 loaves. — Mrs. Harvey Miller. 



42 YEAST BBEADS 



YEAST FOAM BREAD 

Sponge 

1 cake yeast foam 1 quart of flour 

1 pint luke warm water 

In evening soak yeast in luke warm water 20 minutes. Mix 
with flour to make a sponge of medium stiffness. Cover, set in 
a warm place and let rise over night. 

Dough 

Sponge 1 tablespoon lard 

1 pint luke warm water 2 quarts flour or amount re- 
1 tablespoon salt quired to make medium 

1 tablespoon sugar dough 

In morning to the sponge add other ingredients and the flour 
which has been slightly warmed and knead about 20 minutes, 
let rise until double in size, (work down and let rise again) or 
mold into loaves at this time, let rise until light. Bake in mod- 
erate oven 45 to 60 minutes. Whole wheat or graham bread may 
be made by same recipe by using half white flour and half of 
other flour.^ — Miss Katherine Crusiiis, El Paso, III. 

WORLD'S FAIR YEAST BREAD 

1 quart luke warm water Flour to make stiff paste 

Beat well and add yeast. Stir well together. Set in warm 
place over night. In morning take out 1 cup of the sponge. Pour 
in quart fruit jar, pour over this 1/2 cup granulated sugar, put on 
rubber and lid and set in cool place for next baking. To re- 
mainder of sponge add 1 quart luke warm water, 2 level table- 
spoons salt, small lump of lard and flour to stiffen. Knead well 
20 minutes, let rise, work down, let rise again, make into loaves 
and bake. Makes 6 large loaves and pan light rolls. 

World's Fair Yeast 

Method of making yeast is unknown to me but when one 
can get it from some one that uses it, it is very successful and 
should be used twice a week to get best results. 

—Mrs. A. P. Tyrner. 

LIQUID STARTER BREAD 

3 fair sized potatoes and 1 level tablespoon salt 

water in which they were 2 heaping tablespoons sugar 

cooked (a quart or more) ly^ quarts boiling water 

2 tablespoons finely mashed 
potatoes 

Let cool, add "starter liquid," stir well and take out 
"starter" (1 quart). In morning warm to luke warm before 
adding flour to stiffen, knead and proceed as for any bread. 
Makes 6 loaves. — Mrs. Elmer Stephens, Carlock, III. 



YEAST BBEADS 



43 



ANOTHER LIQUID STARTER BREAD 
Starter 



2 medium sized potatoes boil- 
ed until tender, put through 
a sieve 1 

1 quart water in which they i/^ 

were boiled (add clear 

Set away in glass can 3 or 4 days. 



water if not enough potato 

water) 

cake yeast foam 

cup sugar 



Liquid Sponge 

Boil 2 medium sized potatoes, mash very finely or put 
through a sieve, 1 quart water in which they were cooked and 
the "starter." Stir up well and set aside until morning. 



Dough 

In morning first take out 1 pint of the liquid for "starter" 
for the next baking. To remainder add 1 pint or more of luke 
warm water, salt and flour to make sponge as for other bread, 
mix well and let rise % hour. Add flour to stiffen, knead 20 
minutes, let rise, work down, let rise again. Make into loaves, 
let rise and bake. Makes about 5 loaves. 

—Mrs. R. L. Schertz. 



LIQUID STARTER BREAD, No. 3 
Yeast Plant 

Soak 3 yeast cakes in a cup of tepid water, while 6 or 8 fair 
sized potatoes are boiling. When the potatoes are cooked soft, 
put them and a quart of the water in which they were boiled 
through a colander and add a teaspoon salt and two table- 
spoons sugar (rounding measure). When tepid add yeast cakes 
rubbed with a spoon to a smooth paste and place the whole in 
a stone jar and keep the contents at blood heat for 12 hours. 



Yeast Starter 



Boil 3 medium sized potatoes 

1 tablespoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar 



Cover and leave over night. 



3 quarts water including pota- 
toes and potato water 
Add 1 quart of the yeast 
plant 



Next morning take out 1 quart 
of liquid, add 1 teaspoon salt and 2 teaspoons sugar. Put in a 
glass can and keep in a cool place. Should be renewed twice 
a week especially in summer. If it should get weak and slow 
to raise, grate a raw potato and add to the starter. 



44 



YEAST BEEADS 



Bread 



1 quart of yeast starter 



3 1/4 quarts flour 



Make a soft sponge in morning, using 1/3 of the flour, let 
raise till it bubbles rapidly. Then add the rest of the flour and 
knead thoroughly. Work down twice, allowing 1 hour between 
working. Let raise again and mold into loaves, let raise until 
double its size and bake 1 hour in a moderate oven. This will 
make 3 loaves. — Mrs. Arthur Twenty. 



Coffee Cakes 



COFFEE CAKE 



2 cups of flour 1 tablespoon butter 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 egg yolks 

Salt % cup milk and water mixed 

1 scant cup sugar 2 egg whites 

Cream sugar and butter, add yolks, alternate milk and water 
mixture with flour, etc., fold in well beaten egg whites. Flavor 
with vanilla if desired. Sprinkle with sugar just before putting 
in the oven and bake in oblong pan that will cut nice slices. 

Mrs. Christine Eheman, ■ 
W2 East Market St., Bloomington, III. 



"HURRY UP" COFFEE CAKE 

% cup sugar Pinch of salt 

1 tablespoon butter Flour to make stiff (like 

Scant cup of milk corn bread) 

Heaping teaspoon baking 
powder 

Mix 1/4 cup sugar, I/2 teaspoon cinnamon and i/^ teaspoon 
butter, sprinkle on top and bake in moderate oven about 20 
minutes. — Mrs. Walter Nafziger. 



COFFEE CAKE ROLLS 

Sift 1 quart flour in mixing bowl into wdiich work 1 cup 
sugar and scant % cup lard. Add 1 quart bread sponge and 1 
beaten egg. 

Add flour to make a soft dough. Let rise, form into rolls; 
let rise again, brush top with sweet cream, sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon. Bake % hour in a slow oven. 

— Mrs. L. E. Beyer. 



COFFEE CAKE 

11/^ quarts flour V2. cup sugar (more if liked 

1/2 cup lard (scant) sweeter) 

2 eggs 1 cup raisins 

Rub flour and lard together, make hole in center and break 
in eggs, put in sugar and raisins and enough yeast to mix same 
as bread. Let rise like bread, then roll to 1 inch in thickness 
and let rise again. When ready to bake moisten top with cream, 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Bake 45 minutes in moderate 
oven. — Mrs. T. W. Slapianek, Greenville, III. 



46 COFFEE CAKES 



COFFEE CAKE 

4 handfuls of sponge 2 whole eggs or 4 whites as 

1 cup granulated sugar preferred 

1 teaspoon salt 1 good tablespoon of butter 

To sponge add sugar, salt and butter and the well beaten 
eggs. Add flour to make dough smooth, but not as stiff as for 
light bread, set aside to rise, work down, let rise again, work into 
4 cakes, let rise again. Bake and after taking from oven pour 
over tops, powdered sugar and milk mixed to a paste. Or use 
finely crumbed bread crumbs and add equal amount of sugar, 
season with cinnamon and nutmeg and lightly sprinkle tops be- 
fore setting in oven. — Miss Matilda Augspurger. 

CINNAMON ROLLS 

2 cups bread sponge 2 whole eggs 

1 cup sugar % cup either melted lard or 
1 tablespoon salt butter 

IVz cups sweet milk Flavor with vanilla 

In morning to the sponge add the sugar, salt, milk and well 
beaten eggs and lard or butter and estimating 6 cups of flour. 
Add vanilla to suite taste. Success of this recipe depends on not 
working dough too stiff. When dough has risen to 3 times its 
original size, divide into 3 parts, roll each out on a floured board, 
spread with melted butter, sugar and cinnamon. Roll up like a 
jelly roll and slice with a sharp knife. Put in buttered pan, let 
rise again and sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and sweet cream 
and bake in a moderate oven. Doughnuts or coffee cake can 
also be made from same recipe if desired. Raisins may be added 
to rolls also. — Miss Edna L. Dressier, El Paso, III. 



Nut, Brown and Corn Breads 



ORANGE BREAD 



Boil 1 cup sugar 

cup water until a syrup is 

formed then add tlie rind of 

3 oranges (cut fine) 

Use only the yellow rind; 



Add: 
1 cup milk 
3 cups flour 
3 teaspoons baking powder 

Pinch of salt 



Bake 45 minutes. 



Makes one loaf. 

— Mrs. 



W. J. Musselman. 



CHOCOLATE BREAD 



1 egg 

1 cup sweet milk 

1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons fat 

1/4 cup granulated sugar 



3 tablespoons cocoa 
5 teaspoons baking powder 
About 3 cups flour 
% cup nuts 



Bake in pan size the sandwiches are desired as this is a 
sandwich bread. Butter or spread with teaspoon jelly and serve 
with hot chocolate. — Miss Aurelle Barclay. 



NUT BREAD 



4 

4 

% 
1 



cups flour 

heaping teaspoons baking 

powder 

cup sugar 

teaspoon salt 



2 cups sweet milk 
1 egg 

1 cup black walnuts or other 
walnuts 



Allow to rise 15 minutes before baking. 

— Mrs. Walter Risser. 



NUT BREAD 



1 cup granulated sugar 

Vz cup butter 

1 cup of milk 

1 cup black walnut meats 



(Roll nuts in part flour) 
3 cups of flour 
3 teaspoons baking powder 
3 eggs beaten separately 



Let rise 20 minutes and bake slowly. 

— Mrs. Metta F. Imhoff. 



NUT BREAD 



4 cups flour 
1 cup sugar 
6 teaspoons baking powder 



1 egg 

1 cup milk 

1 cup nuts 



Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add egg and milk, making a 
soft dough as for baking powder biscuits. Add nuts and turn 
into a loaf pan which has been well greased. Let stand for 20 
minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 30 to 45 minutes. This makes 
two loaves. — Miss Marjorie Berg. 



NUT, BEOWN AND COEN BREADS 



49 



% cup sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 egg, beat together 

2 cups Graham flour 
1 cup white flour 



NUT BREAD 



2 cups sour milk 

1 rounding teaspoon soda 

Dissolved in milk 
1 cup chopped nuts 



Let raise Mj liour. 
be sure it is well done. 



Have oven hot. Bake slowly 1 hour and 
-Mrs. H. C. Garrett, San Antonio, Texas. 



NUT BREAD 



cups whole wheat flour 
cup white flour 
cup sugar 
teaspoonful salt 



4 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

2 cups sweet milk 

1 egg 

1 cup nut meats 

— Mrs. Philip Ehemann. 



1/2 

V2 

2 
2 



BROWN BREAD 



(scant) cup sugar 
cup molasses 
cups sour milk 
teaspoons soda 



1 cup white flour 

2 cups Graham flour 

% cup chopped raisins or nuts 

1 teaspoon salt 



Let stand i/o hour and bake % to 1 hour in a slow oven. 

— Miss Helen Springer. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 



cup Graham flour 
cup corn meal 
cup ground rolled oats 
cup molasses 



1% cup milk 

5 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon salt 



Steam 3^ hours. 



Remove covers and bake 1/2 hour. 

—Mrs. E. M. Minnick. 



STEAMED .BROWN BREAD 

One cup each of flour, graham flour and corn meal, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, % cup of molasses, IV2 cup buttermilk or sour milk, 
a little salt, beat well, fill 3 pound cans a little more than half 
full, steam about an hour and bake 10 minutes. 

— Mrs. LeRoy Stephenson. 



CORN BREAD 



Melt 1 tablespoon butter 
in pan 
1 cup sour milk 
1/4 teaspoon soda 



1 egg 
1 % scant cups corn meal 
% teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon brown sugar 



Dissolve soda in milk, beat until very light, add well beaten 
egg, mix dry ingredients, add butter, beat well and bake. 
Small recipe, only serves 3 people.^ — A Friend. 



50 NUT, BBOWN AND COEN BREADS 

CORN BREAD 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon salt 

3 level teaspoons baking 1 Vz cups corn meal 

powder V2 cup white flour 

2 level teaspoons sugar 1 egg 
2 tablespoons fat 

Mix ingredients, beat well and bake. 1 cup sour milk and 
1 level teaspoon soda may be used instead of sweet milk and 
baking powder. — Miss Aurelle Barclay. 

CORN BREAD 

14 pint sour cream 1 teaspoon salt 

Vz cup buttermilk 2 cups corn meal 

Yz teaspoon soda 

Dissolve soda in cream and buttermilk, add salt and corn 
meal, beat well and bake as usual. — Mrs. A. H. Otto. 



CRACKLING CORN BREAD 

2 cups corn meal cracklings from lard ren- 

1 teaspoon salt dering 

1 teaspoon brown sugar . 1 cup sour milk 

1 heaping cup of finely cut ^2 level teaspoon soda 

Mix dry ingredients in mixing bowl, turn cracklings into 
center of meal, pour just enough boiling water over cracklings 
to moisten them, beat up milk and soda, add and mix up well. 
Shape into "dodgers" with hands and bake in quick oven. 

— Mrs. Susan Stephens. 



Light Rolls and Biscuits 



LIGHT ROLLS (FLEISOHMANN'S) 

1 cup milk 3 cups sifted flour 

1 cake Pleischmanns yeast % teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 tablespoons lard or butter 

Scald milk and when cooled, add yeast and sugar, let stand 
10 minutes, then stir in 1% cup of the flour, the salt and shorten- 
ing, stir first with spoon, add balance of flour and knead well 
with hands, let rise until double its bulk and make into rolls, 
let rise again and bake. Makes about 1 dozen rolls. 

— Mrs. Byron Winters. 



LIGHT ROLLS 

% cake yeast foam 1 pint luke warm water 

Soak yeast in water, add flour to make medium sponge as 
for bread, cover and set aside, using care to avoid chilling. In 
morning add to above sponge, l^ pint luke warm water, 2 tea- 
spoons salt, scant cup sugar, 3 tablespoons butter. Add flour to 
make a medium dough. When raised until double its size make 
into rolls and when light bake in a moderate oven 30 minutes. 

— Miss Katherine Crusius, El Paso, III. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

2V^ cups flour Lard size of hens egg 

1 Vz teaspoons baking powder About 2 ladles of sweet 

Salt milk 

Serves 4 people. — A Friend of the Bureau. 



CREAM BISCUITS 

2 cups flour Sweet cream enough to 

2 teaspoons baking powder moisten 

Pinch of salt 

Don't use the cream too thick. Quantity, 12 biscuits. 

—Mrs. W. J. McClure. 



SWEET CREAM BISCUITS 

4 cups flour 2 teaspoons cream tartar 

1 cup sweet cream 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

Sift dry ingredients and add others. Use as little flour as 
possible in rolling dough out. — Miss Mamie Hay. 



LIGHT BOLLS AND BISCUITS 53 



LITTLE YEAST BISCUIT 

1 V2 cakes yeast foam 1 quart sweet milk 

Good Vz cup luke warm 1 teaspoon salt 

water Flour 

Soak yeast in warm water, when well dissolved (have flour 
in mixing bowl with a hollow in center) pour in bowl with the 
milk and salt and work up with the hands until about as stiff as 
bread dough. Place in greased pan, let rise over night, work out 
in morning size of a walnut. Bake in moderate oven. Dough 
can be kept in a cool place until it is all used. 

— Mrs. Susan Stephens. 



Buns and Breakfast Cakes 



SPANISH BUNS 



One scant cup butter and 2 cups brown sugar creamed. Add 
beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup cold water, 2% cups flour in which 
2 rounding teaspoons baking powder, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, I/2 
teaspoon cloves, I/2 teaspoon nutmeg have been sifted. Fold in 
the beaten whites of 3 eggs. Bake in a large pan, cut in squares 
and serve warm. — Mrs. Eugene Nafziger. 

BUNS 

Dissolve 1 cake Fleischman's yeast and 1 tablespoon sugar 
in one cup luke warm water, add one cup milk scalded and 
cooled, 2 cups sifted flour, 2 tablespoons butter or lard, 1 tea- 
spoon salt. Cover and set aside to raise in a warm place about 
IV2 hours. When well risen add 1 cup raisins, enough flour to 
make a soft dough. Knead lightly, let raise again until double 
in bulk and mould and let raise again about one hour and bake. 

— Mrs. L. F. Oertwig. 

BUNS 

1 pint bread sponge % cup sugar 

1 pint cold water Salt 

% cup lard 

Mix stiffer than for bread, let set in a cool place until eve- 
ning, shape into small buns, set in cool place and bake the next 
morning. — Mrs. C. C. Hahecker. 



BUNS 



2 


cups bread sponge 


1V2 


cups sweet milk 


% 


cup sugar 


2 


eggs 



Pinch of salt 
1 heaping tablespoon lard 
Flour 



Mix and let rise again and then cut out with a cookie cutter 
and let rise again. Wash with milk and sugar to give a glaze. 
Bake 25 minutes. — Mrs. Wm. Wilson. 



BUNS 

Bread dough size of a large teacup, taken from the dough 
when in the large loaf. Place in mixing bowl, add 1 cup warm 
water, % cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, lard size of an egg. Mold 
in sufficient flour to make dough the consistency of bread dough. 
Set to raise in a cool place until night. Then mold into buns and 
place in a greased pan. Let raise over night and bake early in 
the morning. — Mrs. J. C. Nafziger. 



BUNS AND BREAKFAST CAKES F5 

RUSKS 

Scant pint of sweet milk 3 eggs 

(Boil until reduced to a tea- 1 cup yeast (as prepared for 
cupful) bread) 

1 teacup of butter 3 pints flour 
Vz cup sugar Salt 

After milk is reduced to a cup take from stove, add butter, 
sugar, well beaten eggs, then yeast and 21/2 pints flour, beat 
thoroughly, let rise until light, then add remaining Y2 pint flour, 
let rise again and work into small rusks, let rise and bake. Suc- 
cess of recipe depends on thorough beating while mixing. 

— Mrs. Madgalena Lackey. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS 



1% 

% 
1/2 

2 
1 


cups flour 

cup corn meal 

teaspoon salt 

teaspoons baking powder 

rounding tablespoon brown 

sugar 


1 

1/2 

1 

1 


cup sour milk 

level teaspoon soda 

egg 

rounding tablespoon 

butter 



Mix dry, flour, corn meal, salt, baking powder and sugar, 
beat soda and milk until light, add beaten egg and dry ingre- 
dients, beat well, add melted butter and bake 15 or 20 minutes 
in muffin pan. — Miss Edna L. Stephens. 

MUFFINS 

2 cups of flour 1 egg 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup sweet milk 

1 teaspoon of sugar 1 tablespoon of butter 

Bake in quick oven. One tablespoon corn meal added and 
using 1 tablespoon less flour is also good. 

— Mrs. L. Lathhury. 

MUFFINS 

3 cups flour 2 eggs 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1% cups milk 

% teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

2 tablespoons sugar 

All measurements level. — Mrs. Homer Barclay. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

1 1/4 cups Graham flour 1 egg 

% cup flour 3 tablespoons melted butter 

Scant % cup sugar 5 level teaspoons baking 

1 teaspoon salt powder 
1 cup rich milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually, the well 
beaten egg and melted butter. Bake in buttered gem pans in 
hot oven 25 minutes.— Mrs. Ansel F. Stubblefield, McLean, III. 



56 BUNS AND BREAKFAST CAKES 



GRAHAM GEMS 

2 cups Graham flour 1 cup milk 

lA cup sugar 1 egg 

Yi teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon melted butter 



3 level teaspoons baking pow- 
der 



— Mrs. Homer Barclay. 



GRAHAM GEMS 

2 cups Graham flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 cup wheat flour 1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Make a soft batter with sweet milk and add an egg. Bake 
in gem pans. — Mrs. L. F. Oertwig. 



GRAHAM GEMS 

2 tablespoons lard Vz cup sour cream 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon soda 
1 egg Pinch of salt 

1 V2 cups buttermilk 

Stiffen with graham flour until it drops from spoon. 

— Mrs. J. J. Zook. 

WAFFLES 

2% cups white flour 2 cups sweet milk 

3 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt ^ cup melted butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, beat yolks of eggs until light, 
mix with the milk, add flour mixture, then melted butter, beat 
well and then fold in the whites last. — Mrs. R. L. Schertz. 



BREAKFAST CAKES 

1% cups flour Pinch of salt 

% cup prepared buckwheat 2 cups clabber milk (it must 

1 tablespoon sugar be clabber milk) 

1 good level teaspoon soda Vz cup water 

Mix all together and beat well. 1 tablespoon batter to a cake. 
— Mrs. Charles Stephens, Congerville, III. 



PANCAKE FLOUR 

1 cup Graham flour V2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup corn meal V2 teaspoon sugar 

1 cup wheat flour 1 teaspoon soda 

Mix with sour or buttermilk. 

— Mrs. L. F. Oertwig. 



BUNS AND BEEAKFAST CAKES 57 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

1 quart warm water Buckwheat to make a stiff 

1 cup wheat flour batter 

1/^ yeast cake In morning add % teaspoon 

2 tablespoons sugar soda 
Salt 



— Mrs. L. F. Oertwig. 



CONVERSATION MUSH 

1 qt. boiling water 1 cup dried fruit 

2 cups corn meal (Raisins, prunes, figs or 
1 cup bran dates) 

Into water stir corn meal and bran, let simmer l^/^ hours, 
then add fruit. Serve with milk or cream. Salt to taste. 

— Mrs. H. Musselman. 



FERMENITY 

2 % medium teaspoons of Lewis 1 gallon water 

lye 6 pints dry wheat 

Let water and lye come to a boil, add wheat and boil until 
wheat gets a little slick, remove from fire and wash through 
several waters until the water looks clear. Return to stove in 
clear cold water and boil until soft, changing water several 
times again while cooking. Keep in a cool place and heat as 
needed, add butter and serve with cream and sugar. 

— Mrs. Jno. Wilson. 



CINNAMON TOAST 

Vs cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

Slice bread and spread with butter. Sprinkle with mixed 
cinnamon and sugar to which a teaspoonful of butter has been 
added. Toast or heat in a hot oven. This is a substitute for 
coffee cake and is quickly made and tastes delicious. 

— Mrs. Sophia Vercler. 

CINNAMON STICKS 

% cup sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

Bread Butter or substitute 

Cut bread into slices, then into strips or triangles, then 
butter lightly with butter on both sides, sprinkle with or roll in 
the mixture of sugar and cinnamon and toast in hot oven until 
crisp and serve with bake apple. — Miss Aurelle Barclay. 



Cake Fillings 



FROSTING 



1 cup confectioners sugar Butter size of walnut 

1 tablespoon dry cocoa 

Cream, then add strong coffee until right consistency to 
spread. Flavor with vanilla. — Miss Nell Pearce. 



NUT CARAMEL ICING 

1 cup brown sugar % cup cold water 

1/4 cup white sugar 

Boil until it spins a thread. Pour over 2 stiffly beaten egg 
whites, add 1 cup chopped nuts. Beat and spread. 

— Miss Margret M. Dirks. 



FIG FILLING 

One pound figs, chop fine and put into stew pan on the stove. 
Pour over them a teacup of water. Add I/2 cup sugar. Cook 
together until soft and smooth. When cold spread between 
layers of cake. — Mrs. Fred Miller. 



YELLOW CAKE FROSTING 

Two tablespoons melted butter. Add powdered sugar until 
thick. Break into this one egg and beat all together. Add 
enough powdered sugar to make right thickness to spread on 
cake. — Mrs. Fred Miller. 



FUDGE FILLING 

1 cup brown sugar 1 tablespoon grated chocolate 

i/(5 cup sweet milk V2 teaspoon vanilla 

1 teaspoon butter 

Heat sugar and milk together, boil about 4 or 5 minutes, 
stirring all the time, add butter, boil 4 minutes longer. Remove 
from fire, add chocolate and vanilla. Beat slightly and spread. 



PLAIN ICING 

One egg white. Add 5 rounding tablespoons powdered sugar 
one at a time, beat until smooth, add few drops of flavoring and 
spread. Both of above are for a one layer cake only. 

— Miss Edna L. Stephens. 



60 CAKE FILLINGS 



MARSHMALLOW FILLING 

ll^ cups sugar 1 egg white 

V2 cup water 6 marshmallows 

1 tablespoon corn syrup Flavoring 

Boil sugar, water and syrup until it spins a thread, beat white 
of egg stiff, add marshmallows, then gradually add syrup a table- 
spoon at a time, beating constantly with Dover egg beater. Let 
syrup boil constantly until all is used. This icing will keep sev- 
eral days. — Mrs. J. H. Dressier, El Paso, III. 

MARSHMALLOW ICING 

2 cups sugar 1 dozen marshmallows 
% cup water % teaspoon vanilla 

2 egg whites 

Cook sugar and water without stirring until syrup spins a 
thread, pour slowly over beaten whites. Have marshmallows 
melting over a pan of boiling water, add to icing, flavor and 
beat until smooth, spread very thickly over cake. 

—Mrs. T. W. Slupianek, Greenville, III. 



SEA FOAM ICING 

2 cups brown sugar % cup water 

Boil until it spins a thread, pour slowly over the beaten white 
of one egg. Flavor with vanilla to taste and beat until cool. 

—Mrs. W. W. Jones. 

CARAMEL ICING 

2% cups of light brown sugar i^ cup cream 

Cook until it forms a soft ball in water, add 1 tablespoon of 
butter and remove from fire, add 1 teaspoon vanilla and beat 
until right to spread. — Mrs. A. E. Scharfenberg. 

CARAMEL ICING 

1 cup brown sugar % cup sweet cream 

^ cup white sugar Flavor if desired 

Boil until it spins a thread and when cool beat well and 
spread on cake. — Mrs. I. J. Yoder. 

PINEAPPLE FILLING 

1 small can grated pineapple 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

% cup sugar 1 egg yolk 

1 tablespoon flour 

Cook and spread between layers and on top of cake. 

— Miss Liila Salzman. 



CAKE FILLINGS 



61 



PINEAPPLE FILLING 



Small can grated pineapple 
(Same amount of cooked 
fresh pineapple that has 
been grated may be used) 
cup pineapple juice 



(Add water if needed to 
make one-half cup) 
V2 cup granulated sugar 
1 rounding tablespoon of corn 
V2 cup pineapple juice starch dissolved in water 

1 well beaten egg yolk 

Heat sugar and juice, add cornstarch and cook until thick. 
Add yolk and pineapple and cook a few minutes. Cool before 
using on cake. — Mrs. C. R. Ewins. 



Mixed and Sponge Cakes 



DELICATE CAKE 

2 cups of sugar 2 1/^ cups flour sifted with 2 

V2 cup of butter heaping teaspoons of bak- 

1 cup of sweet milk ing powder 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Beat stiffly and fold in lightly last. Flavor with vanilla. 

— Mrs. A. R. Berg. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

Whites of 8 eggs 1 cup Swansdown cake flour 

Yolks of 4 Sift several times 

Beat separately 1 scant teaspoon cream tar- 

1 % cups sugar tar 
Sift several times 

Beat whites until foamy, add cream tartar and beat until 
very stiff and dry, beat in gradually the sugar and flavoring 
(vanilla or as desired) then the well beaten yolks and lightly 
fold in flour last. Bake in floured pan until it settles after rising 
in baking, allow pan to rest on some small blocks if not pro- 
vided with rests, until cake leaves pan of itself. 

— Mrs. R. L. Schertz. 

LEMON FILLING CAKE 

11/3 cups sugar creamed with V2 cup butter, add 1 cup cold 
water and beat thoroughly, then add 2 teaspoons Dr. Price's 
baking powder sifted with 2 cups flour. Beat three minutes and 
lastly add 2 well beaten eggs. Bake in two layers. 

Filling for Cake 

Yolks of 3 eggs 1 small cup sugar 

Juice of 1 large lemon 

Mix all together, place on stove, stirring constantly until it 
comes to a boil. When cool spread between layers. 

— Mrs. Frank Vance. 

POPULAR WHITE CAKE 

1 cup powdered sugar 3 cups flour 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup butter Whites of 3 eggs 

1 cup sweet milk Beat well 

Filling 

1 cup sugar 1 square of chocolate 

^4 cup sweet milk A lump of butter 

Vi cup Karo syrup 

Cook until it makes a soft ball in water. 

— Mrs. R. H. Norton, Bloomington, III. 

(Given by Mrs. C. R. Stuckey) 



MIXED AND SPONGE CAKES 63 

FRENCH CREAM CAKE 

1% cups flour 5 tablespoons cold water 

1 rounding teaspoon baking 1 cup granulated sugar 

powder 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

3 eggs 

Beat eggs, add water, beat in sugar, add flour and flavor and 
bake in 2 layers. 

Filling 

% cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

1 tablespoon corn starch 1 egg white 

1 cup boiling water Few drops lemon extract 

Mix dry, the sugar and corn starch, add water, butter, cook 
until thick. Take from stove, add beaten egg white, flavor and 
ice between layers and top of cake. Use while fresh. 

— Miss Edna L. Stephens. 



NEVER FAIL CAKE 



V2 


cups sugar 


1 


cup water 


V2 


cup butter 


2 


teaspoons baking powder 


3 


eggs (beat yolks and 


2y2 


cups flour, vanilla 




whites separate) 




Add whites last 



— Mrs. Homer Barclay. 



PORK CAKE (LARGE) 

2 cups fat pork, ground 1 cup molasses 

1 cup boiling water 1 teaspoon soda 
Cook and cool, add 4 cups flour 

2 cups brown sugar Flavor with nutmeg 



— Mrs. B. F. Springer. 



CREAM CAKE 

1 cup sweet cream 1 V2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs Flavor as desired 

Bake in loaf or layers. — Mrs. W. J. McClure. 



COCOANUT CAKE 



2 


cups sugar 


% 


cups butter 


1 


cup sweet milk 


3 


cups flour 



3 level teaspoons baking pow- 
der 
6 egg whites 
1 teaspoon vanilla 



Cream sugar and butter well, sift flour and baking powder 
and add alternately with the milk and then beat well. Add the 
whites of eggs, also well beaten, and the vanilla. After cake 
is in long loaf pan sprinkle with cocoanut or ground nuts and 
bake. Better baked in oil oven. — Miss Lula Salzman. 



64 



MIXED AND SPONGE CAKES 



WALNUT CAKE 

Cream 1% cups sugar, % cup butter, add 1 whole egg and 
yolks of 2 eggs, and 1 cup sweet milk. Roll 1 cup chopped nuts 
in 1 tablespoon flour, then add 3 cups flour sifted with 2 teaspoons 
baking powder. Add to the creamed butter, milk and egg mix- 
ture, stir well, flavor with lemon extract and bake in a loaf. 

Filling 

Beat the 2 egg whites, add 11/2 cups powdered sugar and i/^ 
lb. marshmallows cut fine. Sprinkle walnut meats on top of 
cake. — Mrs. George Curry. 



RAISIN CAKE 



21/2 
1 

V2 



cups flour level measure 

cup of sugar 

cup butter or lard 

cup raisins cooked until 

tender 



1 cup water in which the 

raisins were cooked 
3 tablespoons molasses 
1 teaspoon soda 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon cloves 



Cream sugar and butter, add raisin water, dissolve soda in 
molasses, add it and spices, also flour and fold in cooked raisins 
last. Batter will be thinner than other cakes. 

— Mrs. Cele Daniel. 





JAM CAKE 


2 

1 
1/2 

y2 

1 

1/2 


cups flour 3 egg yolks 
teaspoon cinnamon Vz cup sour cream 
teaspoon nutmeg 1 teaspoon soda 
teaspoon cloves 1 cup any kind of jam 
cup granulated sugar 3 egg whites 
cup butter Add jam last 




—Mrs. G. W. Springer. 



MAPLE CAKE 



^2 cup butter or substitute 

2 cups maple sugar 

1 cup buttermilk 

2 14 cups cake flour 



2 eggs beaten light 

% teaspoon soda 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

% teaspoon ginger 



Cream butter and gradually add sugar crushed fine, add the 
eggs beaten light without separating, dissolve soda in the butter- 
milk and add alternately with the flour which has been sifted, 
measured and sifted again with the ginger and the baking 
powder. Bake in a tube pan about 50 minutes. 

— Miss Emma Rassbach. 



MIXED AND SPONGE CAKES 



65 



MARBLE CAKE 
White Part 



1% cups sugar 
Vz cup butter 
Vz cup sweet milk 

2 ^ cups flour 



2 rounding teaspoons baking 
powder 
1 Vz teaspoons vanilla 
Whites of 4 eggs 



Dark Part 



Use brown sugar in place of white, yolks in place of whites 
and 1 teaspoon cinnamon and nutmeg, 1/2 teaspoon cloves and 
allspice in place of vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls into loaf pan 
or layers. — Mrs. Lydia A. Yoder. 



BROWN STONE FRONT 



2 cups sugar 

1 cup butter 

2 eggs 

1 cup milk 
3 Vz cups flour 



2 teaspoons baking powder 
V2 cup cocoa or i^ cake 
chocolate 

1 teaspoon soda 
V2 cup water 



Cream butter and sugar, then add as written above. Use V2 
cup boiling water with soda and chocolate. Beat until creamy. 
Always add 4 or 5 tablespoons of flour to creamed butter and 
sugar before adding rest of mixture. — Miss Hannah Alwes. 



WATERMELON CAKE 



1 

2 
31/2 

3 
1 



White Part: 

One cup butter 

cup milk 

cups sugar 

cups flour 

teaspoons baking powder 

teaspoon lemon extract 

Whites of 8 eggs 



Red Part: 

1 cup red sugar or use white 
sugar and cake coloring 

V2 cup butter 
% cup milk 

2 cups flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 cup raisins 



Bake in form v/ith tube in center. Place the red part in cen- 
ter with white part around outside. — Mrs. Fred Miller. 



POTATO CAKE 

teaspoon vanilla 

cup mashed potatoes made 

smooth with a little milk 

cups flour 

teaspoons baking powder 

cup nuts chopped fine 

This is a large cake and should be baked slowly. 

— Mrs. Arthur Otto. 



2 


cups sugar 


1 


1 


cup butter 


1 


4 


eggs well beaten 




% 


cup sweet milk 


21/2 


V2 


cup chocolate dissolved in 


21/2 




hot water 


1 



66 MIXED AND SPONGE CAKES 

CHECKERBOARD CAKE 

2 cups white sugar 2 heaping teaspoons baking 

% cup butter powder 

1 cup of milk (or half milk 4 cups flour 
and half water) 

Cream sugar and butter, add milk, sift baking powder and 
flour, beat together, then divide batter into 2 equal portions. To 
one part add 1 teaspoon cinnamon, % teaspoon each of nutmeg, 
cloves and allspice (2 teaspoons grated chocolate if desired) 
and the well beaten yolks of 3 eggs. To the other part of batter 
add the stiffly beaten whiles of 3 eggs and 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Have ready 3 square greased and floured cake pans and set 
in a row. Around the edge of the first one place a band of the 
dark batter 1 inch in width, then a 1-inch band of the white, 
batter inside of this, continue until pan is filled. In the second, 
first place a band of the white batter, then the dark as before 
and the third start with the dark batter and when baked place 
together in same manner and between layers and over top use 
plain white icing thinly. — Mrs. Lydia A. Yoder. 



THE MOST POPULAR CAKE IN AB^RICA 



1 

V2 

V2 

2 


egg 

cups flour 

teaspoon soda 

tablespoons Bunte's cocoa 


1 

V2 

V2 

1 


cup sour milk 
teaspoon baking powder 
cup melted butter or lard 
teaspoon vanilla 


1 


cup sugar 







Beat egg until light, gradually add sugar, then add melted 
shortening (Joutter) and sour milk in which the soda has been dis- 
solved. Sift flour, cocoa and baking powder. Add vanilla ; pour 
in three small layer cake pans and bake in moderate oven about 
25 minutes. Never use chocolate. Use Bunte cocoa instead or 
any other good cocoa. — Mrs. Win. Fislar. 



QUICK CAKE 

Break 2 eggs into a cup, and then fill remainder of cup with 
sweet cream. Put into bowl and beat well and add 1 cup of sugar, 
2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder and flavor to taste. This 
cake may be served with frosting, sauce or banana filling. 

— Mrs. Henry Dressier, El Paso, III. 



SMALL WHITE CUP CAKE 

1 % cups flour 1 cup sugar 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Sift all together. Whites of 2 eggs unbeaten in a cup, add 
melted butter to make the cup Vo full, then finish filling the cup 
with sweet milk. Add flavoring and beat all 5 minutes. 

—Miss Eva J. Hall. 



MIXED AND SPONGE CAKES 67 

CUP CAKE (YELLOW) 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 egg in cup and beat, then 
Add 1 V2 cups flour add butter to fill cup V^ full 

2 teaspoons baking powder add sweet milk to fill the cup 

Mix flour, sugar and baking powder. Pour in the liquid and 
beat 3 minutes. Add extracts and bake in two layers. More 
than iy2 cups flour may be added if a loaf cake is desired. 

— Mrs. Emma P. Garvey. 

SPONGE CAKE 

2 cups flour level 1 cup of sugar 

1 heaping teaspoon baking V2 cup of milk 

powder 2 eggs 

% teaspoon salt Flavor with lemon extract 

Makes 2 layers and may be iced or not as desired. 

—Mrs. Lloyd Radcliff. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Six eggs beaten separately, add 1 cup sugar to each and beat, 
then add whites and yolks together and beat again, then add 2 
cups of sifted flour to which has been added 2 teaspoons cream 
tartar. Dissolve 1 teaspoon soda in 1 cup (less 2 tablespoons) of 
boiling w^ater, stir lightly into other ingredients and flavor with 
lemon extract. — Mrs. A. H. Otto. 

ROLL CAKE 

4 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons sweet milk 

Spread very thin in a baking pan and when baked spread 
with jelly and roll. — Mrs. Samuel Perry. 

JELLY ROLL 

6 eggs beaten separately 2 1/^ cups flour 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup boiling water 

Bake in a shallow pan and when done spread with jelly and 
roll. — Mrs. L. F. Oertwig. 

MOCK ANGEL FOOD CAKE 

1 cup of sugar 1 cup milk 

1 cup of flour and a little over Whites of 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder Flavor with vanilla or lemon 

Sift sugar, flour and baking powder five times, heat milk 
nearly boiling. Set aside while preparing dry ingredients, mix 
well, fold in egg whites, add flavoring and bake in small loaf pan. 

—Mrs. W. H. Ay res. 



68 



MIXED AND SPONGE CAKES 



THREE EGG ANGEL FOOD 



1 cup sugar 
1% cups flour 
% teaspoon cream tartar 
3 teaspoons baking powder 



% teaspoon salt 
% cup scalded milk 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
Whites of 3 eggs 



Sift dry ingredients 4 times, pour on gradually the scalded 
milk, add flour, mix well and fold in whites of eggs beaten 
until light, add vanilla, bake in unbuttered tin in moderate oven 
45 minutes. — Mrs. J. H. Engel. 



ANGEL FOOD CAKE 



iy2 



cup of flour sifted 5 times 

before measured 

cups sugar sifted before 

measured 



1 cup of egg whites beaten 
until foamy, then add 1 
teaspoon cream tartar and 
beat until stiff and 1 tea- 
spoon of flavoring 

Fold in sugar in the beaten egg whites and then fold in 
flour. Bake about 45 minutes in an ungreased cake pan. 

— Miss Virgil M. Cooper. 



ANGEL FOOD CAKE 



iy2 cups granulated sugar 
1 pint egg whites 
% teaspoon cream of tartar 



1 heaping cup sifted flour, 
(or all that will stay on 
cup) 



Beat eggs until foamy, add cream tartar, continue beating 
until very dry, fold in sugar gradually and very slowly, fold in 
flour lightly and slowly, and flavor with 1 teaspoon lemon and 
14 teaspoon of almond extract. Bake in a dry pan 40 minutes in 
a moderate oven. Take from oven, invert pan on two saucers and 
allow cake to release itself, 

— Mrs. J. E. Morrison, Bloomington, III. 



EGGLESS CAKE 



1 cup brown sugar 

1 cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda 

% cup butter 



Spices to taste 

1 cup raisins 

2 cups flour 



— Mrs. B. F. Springer. 



1 cup sugar 
Y2 cup butter 
1 cup milk 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 



EGGLESS CAKE 

2 
1 
1 

2 



teaspoons cocoa 
teaspoon soda 
teaspoon baking powder 
cups flour 



— Mrs. H. L. Stuckey. 



MIXED AND SPONGE CAKES 



69 



EGGLESS OAKE 



'Y2 cup butter 

1 cup sugar 

1 cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 



tablespoons grated choco- 
late dissolved in little boil- 
ing water 

cup dates or raisins 
cup nut meats 



1 teaspoon vanilla 



Filling 



Cream % cup butter and 2 cups powdered sugar and add 
5 tablespoons grated chocolate in 4 tablespoons cold cofiFee. Beat 
good and do not use until cake is cold. 

— Mrs. Floyd Sebastian. 



EGGLESS OAKE 



1 y2 cups sugar 

14 cup lard 
1% cups water 



2 teaspoons cinnamon 
2 teaspoons cloves 
1 teaspoon ginger 



Mix all together and boil, set aside to get cold and mix in 
flour to make batter stiff as usual loaf cake and with the flour 
add 1 teaspoon soda and II/2 cups raisins. Bake in loaf or layers. 

—Mrs. H. M. Hedrick. 



BUTTERMILK CAKE 



1 cup sugar 

% cup butter 

1 egg 

2 cups flour 

1 level teaspoon soda 

1 cup buttermilk 



1 teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 cup raisins 
1 cup currants 
1 cup walnuts 



Bake in long loaf pan. — Mrs. Arthur Twenty. 



2 cups brown sugar 

1 cup white sugar 
% cup shortening 

2 eggs 

1 % cups buttermilk 



BUTTERMILK CAKE 

1 



teaspoon soda 

Flour 

teaspoon each of ginger, 

cinnamon and cloves 

cup raisins or currants 



Cream sugar and shortening, add well beaten eggs, dissolve 
soda in buttermilk, add flour to make batter that will hardly 
drop from spoon and sift with the flour the spices, lastly add 
fruit well dredged in flour. Bake in moderate oven 2 hours. 
(11/2 cups cold coffee and 3 teaspoons baking powder may take 
place of buttermilk and soda.) 

— Mrs. Albert Biiilta, Congerville, III. 



Apple Sauce, White and Spice Cake 



APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

Cream together 1 cup sugar i/4 teaspoon nutmeg 

1/^ cup shortening 1 cup raisins 

Vz teaspoon cloves Salt spoon of salt 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Dissolve 1 teaspoon soda in a little warm water. Stir into 
1 cup of sour apple sauce. Beat all thoroughly, add 1% cups 
flour.— Mrs. E. C. Hiiishaw. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 



1 

1 

2 


cup sugar 

cup lard 

cup cold unsweetened apple 

sauce 

small teaspoons soda 


V2 

1 

V2 

2 


cup boiling water 
cup raisins 
cup nuts 
cups flour 
Teaspoon vanilla 


% 


cup cocoa 







Cream sugar and lard and pinch of salt. Add soda dissolved 
in sauce, cocoa dissolved in hot water, add flour, raisins, nuts 
and flavor. — Mrs. J. H. Dressier, El Paso, III. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

2 cups sugar 2% cups apple sauce 

1 cup lard 1 lb. raisins 

1 teaspoon of each, cinna- 4 cups (rounded) flour 

mon, allspice, cloves and 2 teaspoon soda dissolved in 

nutmeg V2 cup hot water 

Beat hard. Bake 1 hour in a moderate oven. 

— Mrs. Walter Risser. 

SPANISH NUT CAKE 

One-half cup butter creamed with 1 cup sugar, add yolks of 
2 eggs, and 1/2 cup milk; 1 cup flour and 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 14 cup pecan nuts. Beat whites 
of 2 eggs and add last. — Mrs. Walter Risser. 





NUT CAKE 




V2 


cup butter 


2 level teaspoons baking 


1V2 


cups granulated sugar 


powder 


% 


cup milk 


1 cup nut meats chopped fine 


2 


cups cake flour 


Whites of four eggs beaten 
dry 



Sift flour and baking powder together three times. Cream 
butter and sugar, add milk and flour mixture and then the nut 
meats and whites of eggs. This is an excellent white cake recipe 
when nuts are omitted. Bake in layers. 

— Mrs. Chas. Strubhar. 



72 



APPLE SAUCE, WniTE AND SPICE CAKE 



Variation of Same Recipe 

Using ^ cup water in place of milk and % cup nut meats 
and adding extra I/2 cup flour. Flavor with vanilla. 

— Mrs. Claude King. 



WHITE CAKE 



cups cake flour 

rounded teaspoons baking 

powder 
cup sugar 



V2 cup butter 
% cup sweet milk 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
Whites of 2 eggs 



Sift flour and baking powder 3 times, cream sugar and butter, 
add milk and flour alternately, flavor. Beat well and fold in 
stiffly beaten eggs. — Miss Maude Harris. 



WHITE CAKE 



Vz cup butter 
1 1^ cups sugar 
Vz cup each milk and water 
1 teaspoon vanilla and % of 
almond 



teaspoon salt 
cups cake flour 
teaspoons baking powder 
Whites of 3 eggs beaten 
stiff 



— Mrs. J. C. Nafziger. 



LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 



% scant cup butter 
1% cups granulated sugar 

1 cup cold water 

2 rounded teaspoons baking 
powder 



3 level cups Swansdown cake 
flour (sifted 4 times be- 
fore measuring) 
1/4 teaspoon almond extract 
1/^ teaspoon vanilla extract 
Whites of 4 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar, add one-third of the w^ater with 1 
cup of the flour, beat thoroughly, add second cup of the flour 
and continue beating. Into the last cup of flour sift the baking 
powder and add as before, then the remainder of the water and 
flavor, then cut and fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites very 
carefully. This will make 3 layers 12 inches square or 2 layers 
14 inches square. Bake in oven of greater heat than loaf cakes. 

— Mrs. Wm. Fislar. 



WHITE LAYER CAKE 



V2 cup butter 
1 cup granulated sugar 
% cup cold water 



2 cups flour sifted twice with 
2 teaspoons baking powder 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Flavor as desired 



Cream butter and sugar, add water and flour alternately, 
add flavor and fold in egg whites which have been well beaten 
last. Bake in layers. 

— Mrs. A. E. Scharfenberg. 



APPLE SAUCE, WHITE AND SPICE CAKE 



73 



WHITE LADY CAKE 



1 14 cups flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup sugar 



Vz cup butter 

Whites of 4 eggs 
Flavor any desired flavor- 
ing 

—Mrs. Ed. L. Smith. 



WHITE CAKE 



2 Yz cups cake flour 

2 Vz teaspoons baking powder 

IVz cups sugar 

^ cup butter 



1 cup sweet milk 
Whites of 5 eggs 
Flavor as desired 

—Mrs. W. H. Ay res. 



2 cups sugar 
1 scant cup butter 
Whites of 5 eggs 
1 cup milk 



WHITE CAKE 

3 

2 

1/2 



cups Swansdown flour 
teaspoons baking powder 
teaspoon vanilla 



Cream butter and sugar. Then add milk and flavoring. 
Then add flour and baking powder and last of all whites of eggs 
beaten stiff. — Mrs. J. E. Rupp. 



1 V2 cups sugar 
V2 cup butter 
1 cup water 



WHITE CAKE 



2 Yz cups flour 

3 scant teaspoons baking 

powder 
6 egg whites beaten stiff 

— Mrs. Walter Risser. 



SILVER CAKE 



2 cups sugar 

% cup butter 

1 cup sweet milk 

4 cups flour 



2 teaspoons baking powder 
Whites of 6 eggs 
Flavoring 



Cream sugar and butter, add milk and flavoring, part of the 
flour, the beaten egg whites and then rest of the flour. Bake 
carefully in tins lined with buttered white paper. 

— Mrs. C. C. Hahecker. 



1 cup brown sugar 
V2 cup butter (or lard) 
1 cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups flour 



EAGLE CAKE 

1 

V2 
1 



teaspoon cinnamon 
teaspoon cloves 
teaspoon nutmeg 
cup raisins chopped 



-Mrs. Edward Springer. 









Second Part 




1/2 

2 ( 

1 

2y2 


cups granulated 
cup butter 
2gg yolks 
cup cold water 
cups flour 


sugar : 


21/2 
3 

1 
2 



74 APPLE SAUCE, WHITE AND SPICE CAKE 

BURNT SUGAR CAKE 

Into very hot skillet pour 11/2 cups granulated sugar and 
brown, stirring all the time to prevent burning. When all is 
melted take from stove and with long handled spoon stir in V2 
cup boiling water. Stir up well and put in glass can. 



teaspoons baking powder 
teaspoons (heaping) of the 
burnt sugar 
teaspoon vanilla 
egg whites 

Cream sugar and butter (part lard is good), add yolks, then 
cold water slowly, add 2 cups of the flour, beat 5 minutes, then 
the burnt sugar and vanilla and the % cup flour with which the 
baking powder has been sifted and fold in well beaten egg whites 
last. Bake in small loaf pan or 2 layers. 

Filling 

Good 1/^ cup brown sugar 6 tablespoons milk or better 

Same of granulated sugar cream 

1/4 teaspoon burnt sugar 

Cook as usual caramel, take from stove, flavor with little 
Mapleine, beat and spread. 

— Mrs. Cyrus Moreland, Earlham, Iowa. 

WHITE SPICE CAKE 

2 1^ cups flour 2 cups sugar 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 1 heaping teaspoon soda 

1/^ teaspoon cloves 4 egg whites 

% teaspoon allspice 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 cup butter 

Mix dry ingredients, cream sugar and butter, dissolve soda 
in milk, beat until light and add alternately with the flour, etc., 
flavor, and fold in eg^ whites. Bake in layers. 

Filling 
Grind together % lb. figs, I/2 lb. pecans or English walnuts, 
and 1/4 lb. raisins. Boil without stirring until it threads from the 
spoon, 2 cups sugar and 1/2 cup water, pour over the stiffly beaten 
whites of 2 eggs and beat until the right consistency to spread, 
save out one-third and stir the rest into the fruit mixture and 
spread between the layers and over top and cover top with other 
third of icing. — Mrs. Lewis Vawter, Tremont, III. 

EGOLESS SPICE CAKE 

3 cups flour Vz cup butter 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon cloves Vz cup currants 

1 Vz cups brown sugar 1 cup raisins 

This is economical cake and keeping improves it. 

— Mrs. A. E. Scharfenberg. 



APPLE SAUCE, WHITE AND SPICE CAKE 



75 









SPICE 


CAKE 








1V2 


cups 


granulated sugar 




3 


level teaspoons baking 


V2 


cup 1 


butter 








powder 




3 


eggs 








2 


teaspoons 


allspice 


1 


cup 


water 






V2 


teaspoon 


cloves 


2% 


cups 


flour 






% 


teaspoon 


nutmeg 



2 teaspoons cinnamon 



1 teaspoon vanilla 



Cream sugar and butter, add spices and egg yolks, then 
water and flour in which baking powder has been sifted, add 
stiffly beaten egg whites and vanilla and bake in a long bread 
pan. — Mrs. Claude King. 



Chocolate and Fruit Cake 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1 cup sugar % cup sour milk 

yz cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

1 egg (unbeaten) 2 cups flour 

Melt and when cool add to above this mixture: 

2 squares chocolate 3 tablespoons sweet milk 
4 teaspoons sugar 

— Mrs. Floyd Sebastian. 
EVERY DAY CHOCOLATE CAKE 



1 


cup sugar 


1% 


cups flour 


3 


tablespoons melted butter 


21/2 


teaspoons baking powder 


2 


eggs beaten light 


1/4 


teaspoon salt 


2 


ounces chocolate 


1/2 


teaspoon cinnamon 


1/2 


cup milk 







Bake in a 7-inch by 11-inch pan about 25 minutes. 

— Mrs. Harvey Miller. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Dissolve 4 tablespoons cocoa in 5 tablespoons boiling water. 
Cream I/2 cup butter, gradually add 1% cups sugar, add beaten 
yolks of 4 eggs, then the dissolved cocoa and 1/2 cup milk, 1% 
cups flour and 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla 
and 4 egg whites. — Mrs. F. E. Risser. 

DARK CAKE 

1 Yz cups sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

yz cup butter 1 cup sweet milk 

3 eggs 2 cups flour 

Vz cup chocolate 

Cook chocolate and % cup milk together and let cool, then 
add other I/2 cup milk and soda. Cream butter and sugar, add 
well beaten eggs, then the cooked chocolate. 

— Miss Virgil M. Cooper. 

Note. — A new idea in flavoring was given in an exact dupli- 
cate to this cake with exception of orange flavor being added to 
recipe.— Gzi»e/i by Miss Zelda C. Anthony. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 cups flour 
V2 cup cocoa 

1 rounded teaspoon soda 

2 egg whites 
2 teaspoons vanilla 

Cream sugar and butter, add yolks slightly beaten, add milk 
and hot water, sift flour, cocoa and soda, then add the beaten 
egg whites and vanilla. — Mrs. A. H. Nafziger. 



1V2 


cups sugar 


V2 


cup butter 


2 


egg yolks 


V2 


cup sour milk 


V2 


cup hot water 



CHOCOLATE AND FBUIT CAKE 77 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Cream I/2 cup of butter, add Vl cup cocoa, the beaten yolks 
of 3 eggs, add 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon and V2 cup 
of water, then the beaten whites of 3 eggs and VA cups of flour 
with 3 level teaspoons of baking powder. Decorate with boiled 
frosting to which dissolved marshmallows are added. 

— Mrs. Lewis Chas. Voss. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Dissolve 2 squares chocolate in 6 tablespoons boiling water. 
Beat 11/2 cups butter to a cream, add gradually IVo cups sugar, 
add beaten yolks of 4 eggs, then chocolate, 1/2 cup milk, 2 cups 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Beat all vigorously. Add 
beaten whites of 4 eggs, and 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

— Mrs. H. C. Garrett, San Antonio, Texas. 



DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 



1/4 


cups sugar 


2 


cups flour 


V2 


cup butter 


2 


squares chocolate 


2 


eggs 




(Or 2 heaping tablespoons 


1 


cup sour milk or butter- 




cocoa) melted with a little 




milk 




hot water 


1 


teaspoon soda beaten in 
the milk 




Flavor with vanilla 



-Mrs. Ansel F. Stubblefield, McLean, III. 



DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

1^ cups sugar 3 tab'lespoons cocoa 

V2 cup butter 3 whole eggs 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon soda 
lYz cups flour Flavor with vanilla 

Cream sugar and butter, add well beaten eggs, add milk and 
flour that has been sifted with the cocoa, dissolve soda in little 
boiling water and add vanilla. Bake in layers. 

— Miss Neva Hulva. 



DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

Put on stove to boil: 1/2 cup butter 

1 cup granulated sugar V2 cup sweet milk 

V2 cup grated chocolate 3 egg yolks 

V2 cup sweet milk 2 cups flour 

When cool add the follow- 2 teaspoons baking powder 

ing: 3 egg whites and vanilla 
1 cup sugar 

Butter Frosting 

% cup powdered suger, butter size of an egg, milk to make 
the right consistency to spread, add cocoa to color as desired. 
— Mrs. Hubert L. Kilby, Jefferson City, Mo. 



78 CHOCOLATE AND FEU IT CAKE 



DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

I have found this recipe always successful : 

Into a double boiler or a little pail that fits into the top of a 
teakettle put % cup sweet milk, I/2 cup sugar, 1 well beaten egg 
and 2 squares chocolate shredded fine or broken into very small 
pieces. Stir and cook this until it is thick and smooth, stirring 
all the time. When it has thickened remove from the fire and 
let cool. In a mixing bowl cream 1/2 cup sugar with I/4 cup butter, 
add 2 well beaten eggs, % cup milk, 1 teaspoon soda in a little 
hot water and scant 1% cups flour. Flavor with vanilla. Lastly, 
add the chocolate mixture and stir all well together and bake 
about % of an hour in a moderate oven. Can also be baked in 
layers and put together with white frosting. 

— Miss Jeanette Hedrick. 



DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

Cream together I/2 cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, and yolks 
of 2 eggs. Add % cup of grated cholocate melted in Vo cup boil- 
ing water. Add two-thirds cup sweet milk, 1 level teaspoon soda, 
2 cups flour and 1 teaspoon baking powder. Then add the well 
beaten egg whites and vanilla. 

Filling 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon butter (melted) 

2 teaspoons cocoa and vanilla 
2 tablespoons hot coffee 



— Miss Edna L. Dressier, El Paso, III. 



DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

2 cups brown sugar 2 % cups sifted flour 

% cup butter or lard (lard is Pinch of salt 

the best) 1 teaspoon soda 

2 eggs Vz cup boiling water 

14 cup Bakers cocoa 1 teaspoon vanilla 

V2 cup sour milk 

Cream sugar and shortening, add eggs well beaten, then 
cocoa, sour milk and flour. Dissolve soda by pouring boiling 
water over it and stir in, then add vanilla. Pour in greased and 
floured pans and bake in a moderate oven. 

Use this icing: « 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

3 tablespoons cocoa 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup of milk 

Mix sugar, cocoa and milk, cook until it forms a soft ball 
in cold water, let cool, then add butter and 2 tablespoons marsh- 
mallow cream and vanilla and beat until ready for cake. 

— Miss Helen Goodspeed, 
90^ S. Clayton St., Bloomington, III. 



CHOCOLATE AND FBUIT CAKE 



79 



EGGLESS, MILKLESS, BUTTERLESS CAKE 



1% cups sugar 
V2 cup lard 
V^ teaspoon cinnamon and 

allspice 
Vz teaspoon vanilla 
V2 cup raisins 



1 V2 cups apple sauce or cher- 
ries 
1 teaspoon soda in V2 cup 

boiling water 
3 cups flour 
V2 cup nut meats 



Flour nut meats and raisins and add last. 

—Mrs. W. R. Yerke, Elkhart, hid. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 



1 cupful butter 


1/4 


level teaspoon ground 


3 level cupfuls sugar 




nutmeg 


8 egg yolks 


1 


level teaspoon powdered 


1 cup sweet milk 




mace 


ZVz level cups flour 


2 


cocoanuts grated 


2 level teaspoons baking 


6 


level cups shredded can- 


powder 




died citron peel 


% level teaspoon salt 







Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks, milk, flour, and 
other dry ingredients sifted together, then the cocoanut, citron 
and stiffly beaten whites of 8 eggs. Mix all carefully and bake 
in a greased and floured tin in moderate oven 1% hours. 

—Mrs. Otto Fusling. 



2 cups of sugar 
1 cup cold water 

3 cups flour 
1 cup raisins 

1 cup currants 

1 cup chopped figs 



FRUIT CAKE 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 

2 



cup chopped citron 

cup butter 

egg 

teaspoon cinnamon 

teaspoon cloves 

teaspoon baking powder 

— Mrs. J. F. Spencer. 



FRUIT CAKE 



1 V2 cups brown sugar 
1/4 cup butter 
1/4 cup lard 

1 egg 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 

3 cups flour 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 



1 teaspoon allspice 
1 cup cold coffee 
1 teaspoon soda 
Y2 cup nut meats 
1 cup chopped raisins 

Some citron, lemon, or 

orange peel 



Mix sugar, shortening and eggs, dissolve soda in coff"ee, flour 
nuts and raisins and add last. 

— Mrs. Charles Moore, Bloomington, III. 



80 



CHOCOLATE AND FBUIT CAKE 



FRUIT CAKE 



2 cups brown sugar 
1 cup butter 

1 cup molasses 

3 eggs 

1 cup cold coffee 



dessert spoon each of cinna- 
mon, nutmeg and cloves 

1 dessert spoon soda 

4 cups flour 

1 pound washed seeded raisins 



Cream sugar, butter and molasses, add well beaten eggs, 
add coffee alternately with the flour, which is mixed with spices, 
dissolve soda in tablespoon boiling water and fold in the well 
floured raisins last. 

- — Mrs. Albert Builta, Congerville, III. 



FRUIT CAKE 



1 cup sugar 


5 


cents worth of citron (cut 


% cup butter 




in small pieces) 


1 cup molasses 


Vz 


teaspoon of each, cloves, all- 


3 eggs 




spice and nutmeg 


1/4 cup raisins 


3 


cups flour 


% cup currants 


1 


cup nuts chopped 


5 cents worth of figs (chopped 


2 


teaspoons baking powder 


fine) 







Bake slowly for 2 hours. This will keep for months, 
baked in the fall makes a nice Christmas cake. 

— Mrs. L. F. Oertwig. 



If 



COFFEE FRUIT CAKE 



1 cup brown sugar 
1 cup lard and butter 

(mixed) 
1 cup syrup 
1 egg 
1 cup strong cold coffee 



31/2 
2 
1 
1 
1 



cups flour (good Yz cup) 
level teaspoons cinnamon 
teaspoon ground nutmeg 
heaping teaspoon soda 
heaping cup seeded raisins 
(washed) 



Cream sugar, shortening and syrup (made of IV2 cups C. 
sugar and V2 cup water), add beaten egg, coffee alternately with 
3 cups flour and spices, dissolve soda in tablespoon boiling water 
and lastly add raisins dredged in other Yo cup flour. Bake in two 
layers.^ — Miss Edna L. Stephens. 



FRUIT CAKE 



3 V2 cups of brown sugar 
% lb. of butter 
6 egg yolks 
1 cup sweet pickle juice of 

(peach or crab apple) 
4 cups sifted flour 
1 1/^ teaspoons cinnamon 



11/2 



teaspoons cloves 
rounded teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in water 
lbs. each raisins, dates, figs 
(or less figs and add finely 
cut citron) and few wal- 
nuts (home grown or not) 



Cream sugar and butter, add yolks, beat well. Add syrup and 
spices, add flour and soda, fold in well beaten whites of 6 eggs 
and last add floured fruit. Bake in 2 cakes. 

— Mrs. Henry Knapple. 



Ginger Breads 



iy2 

1 

V2 
1/4 



cups flour 
Little salt 
teaspoon ginger 
cup sugar 
cup butter 



GINGER BREAD 

1/2 
1 

1/2 
1 



cup molasses 

egg 

cup sour milk 

level teaspoon soda 

-Miss Mamie Hay. 



GINGER BREAD 



1 


cup sugar 


21/2 


1 


cup Sorghum or New Or- 


1 




leans molasses 


1 


V2 


cup lard or butter 


1 


2 


eggs 





cups flour 

tablespoon soda 

tablespoon ginger 

cup hot water 

Pinch of salt if lard is used 



Mix sugar, molasses, eggs and then add shortening. Add 
the ginger and soda dissolved in hot water, lastly the flour. This 
makes two good sized cakes baked in shallow pans. 

— Miss Mary Hanck. 



GINGER BREAD 



scant cup lard 

cup sugar 

cup sorghum 

egg 

cup sour milk 



1/2 


cups flour 


V2 


teaspoon ginger and all- 




spice 


V2 


teaspoon cinnamon and 




cloves 


1 


cup raisins 



1 teaspoon soda 

Bake in moderate oven. 

— Mrs. Hubert L. Kilhy, Jefferson City, Mo. 



SOFT GINGER .BREAD 



% cup butter 

2 cups brown sugar 
1 cup molasses 

3 eggs 

1 cup sour milk 



1 rounding teaspoon soda 
4 cups flour 

1 heaping teaspoon cinnamon 
1 tablespoon ginger 



Cream butter, sugar and molasses, add well beaten eggs, 
dissolve soda in milk, beat up light and add alternately with the 
flour and spices mixed dry. Bake in a long loaf. Frost if 
desired.— Mrs. Ben F. Wilson, Mackinaw, HI. 



Fancy Cakes 

BROWNIES 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

% cup flour 2 squares chocolate 

1 cup black walnuts 

Stir up like cake and pour in greased pan and bake 30 or 
40 minutes. Cut in bars when baked. 

— Mrs. J. H. Stephenson. 

COOOANUT DAINTIES 

stiffly beat the whites of 2 1 cup of powdered sugar 

eggs 2 tablespoons of flour 

Add: 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 cups of shredded cocoanut 

Make into ball size of a walnut and rather flat and bake in 
a buttered pan in a moderate oven until brown. Serve as lunch 
cakes or as bon bons. 

— Miss Edna L. Dressier, El Paso, III. 



DATE BARS 

3 eggs 1 cup of dates stOx^ed and 

1 cup granulated sugar chopped fine 

IV2 cups flour 1 cup of chopped or ground 

1 y2 teaspoons baking powder nuts 

Beat eggs, add sugar, add the sifted flour and baking powder, 
add dates and nuts. Bake in shallow pans, cut in squares and roll 
in powdered sugar. — Mrs. Metta F. Imhoff. 



TEA CAKES 

% cup butter 'V2 teaspoon soda 

1 cup sugar 1 egg 

Vz cup sour milk % teaspoon flavoring 

11/^ cups flour 

Bake in muflin tins. This will make 12 small cakes. 

— Miss Harriet Randolph. 



CREAM PUFFS 

1 cup boiling water 1 cup flour 

V2 cup butter 3 eggs 

Boil water and butter together, when boiling hard add all 
the flour at once, stir briskly and cook 5 minutes. Beat until 
cold, then stir in 1 egg at a time, beating until well mixed. Drop 
a small spoonful on a well greased pan 1 inch apart and bake 
20 minutes. When cold open and fill and roll in powdered sugar. 



FANCY CAKES 



85 



Filling 



1 cup milk 
Yz cup sugar 



2 tablespoons corn starch 
1 egg 



Boil together until thick and let cool. Flavor to taste. 

— Mrs. LeRoy Stephenson. 



MACRONIES 



1 y2 lbs. of sugar 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon cloves 



1 teaspoon soda 
5 eggs well beaten with 
sugar etc. 



Flour to make stiff enough to roll into balls in hands the 
size of a walnut, add ground nut meats, or finely cut citron, bake 
at once in buttered pan in a slow oven. Keep 2 weeks before 
using. — Mrs. Edward Oehler. 





TEA CAKES 


1 
1 


1 cup butter 




1 teaspoon cinnamon 


2 cups sugar 




1/4 teaspoon cloves 


3 cups flour 




14 teaspoon nutmeg 


3 or 4 eggs 




% teaspoon allspice 


% cup sweet milk 




Raisins and nuts 


3 teaspoons baking 


powder 


— Mrs. E. M. Minnick. 



COCOA CAKES 



Cream i/^ cup butter 
Add V4, cup cocoa 
teaspoon cinnamon 
the beaten yolks of 3 eggs 
cup sugar 



V2 cup water then the beaten 
whites of 3 eggs 
1 1/4 cups flour sifted with 3 
teaspoons of baking pow- 
der 



Mix in order named and bake in gem pans. 

— Miss Edna Pagel. 



1 cup sugar 
1 cup dates 
1 cup figs 
1 cup nuts 
1 cup flour 



DATE STICKS 



2 eggs 

2 tablespoons sweet milk 

1 level teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 



Beat the whites and yolks separately. Bake in a slow oven. 
Cut in narrow strips, roll in powdered sugar. These will keep 
several weeks and this improves flavor. 

— Mrs. David S. Ummel. 



86 FANCY CAKES 



PEPPERNUTS 

5 eggs 1/^ teaspoon salt 

3 cups sugar Flour to make very stiff 

1 teaspoon cinnamon dough 

1 level teaspoon soda 

Beat eggs and sugar 15 to 20 minutes, add spices and soda 
dissolved in hot water. Make very stiff dough, work in flour 
and roll size of marbles and bake in quick oven. 

— Miss Louise Eheman, 
W2 E. Market St., Bloomington, III. 

COCOANUT MACAROON COOKIES 

1 cup sugar 2 cups cornflakes 

1 cup cocoanut Whites of 2 eggs beaten 

Mix together and put on greased pan by spoonfuls. 

— Mrs. Sophia Vercler. 

GINGER BALLS 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon each of soda, cinna- 

1 cup baking molasses mon, ginger and vanilla 

1 scant cup lard Flour to make a stiff dough 

1 egg 

Roll in small balls size of walnut and bake. Cream sugar, 
molasses and lard, add well beaten egg, dissolve soda in little 
boiling water, add flour and flavoring. 

— Miss Helen Springer. 

"DIVINE SUSAN" DROP CAKES 



1 


cup sugar 


2 


egg whites 


V2 


saltspoon salt 


IV2 


cups flour 


1 


tablespoon shortening 


2 


teaspoons baking powder 


% 


cup milk 


1/2 


teaspoon vanilla flavoring 



Mix sugar, salt, and shortening into a cream, add milk, flour, 
and baking powder. Add well beaten eggs. Beat as long as 
desired. Bake in hot oven about 12 minutes. (Makes 12 cakes.) 

— Miss Neva M. Lambdin. 



Mixed Cookies 



CORN FLAKE COOKIES 

Whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff. Beat in 1 cup sugar and 1 
cup cocoanut, add 3 cups corn flakes, a little salt. Flavor with 
almond or vanilla. Drop by spoonful in pan and bake 20 to 
30 minutes in very slow oven. — Miss Helen Springer. 

COCOANUT COOKIES 



% cup butter 


Vz cup cocoanut 


1 cup granulated sugar 


2 cups flour 


1 egg well beaten 


1 teaspoon baking powder 


1/4 cup milk 





Roll thin, sprinkle with cocoanut and bake in a quick oven. 

— Mrs. A. E. Scharfenberg. 

BUTTERSCOTCH COOKIES 

4 cups brown sucar 1 tablespoon soda 

1 cup shortening 1 tablespoon cream tartar 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

6 cups flour 

Mold in 4 loaves, let stand over night, cut in slices a trifle less 
than Vi inch in thickness and bake, allowing space about each 
cookie to avoid touching. — Mrs. C. R. Stuckey. 



CHRISTMAS COOKIES 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar 1 level tablespoon of anise seed 

1 cup butter Flour to make a soft dough 

— Mrs. Fred Nafziger. 
ENGLISH COFFEE COOKIES 



IVz 



Sift flour, salt and baking powder, add spices, cream sugar 
and butter, add beaten egg yolks, then the coffee alternately 
with the flour. Dissolve soda in 1 tablespoon boiling water, stir 
in with the vanilla. Add tablespoon flour each to raisins and 
nuts and add last. Drop on floured tin with tablespoon or bake 
in greased round mutfln pans. — Miss Edna L. Stephens. 



cups flour 


2 


cups brown sugar 


Scant teaspoon salt 


2 


eggs 


rounding teaspoon baking 


1 


cup cold coffee 


powder 


1 


level teaspoon soda 


teaspoons cinnamon 


1 


heaping cup washed seed- 


(level) 




ed raisins 


level teaspoon ground nut- 


Vz 


cup English walnuts (be- 


meg 




fore grinding) 


Good % cup lard and 


2 


teaspoons vanilla 


butter 







MIXED COOKIES 89 



CREAM COOKIES 

2 heaping cups thick cream i/4 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons cream tartar 

Whip cream before using, beat the eggs, stir in the sugar 
and salt, then the cream, dissolve soda in a little cold water, sift 
cream tartar and the flour. Do not use too much flour; roll thick. 
These arc delicious. — Miss Margaret M. Dirks. 

ANISE COOKIES OR SPRINGERLIE 

Beat 4 eggs until they are as stiff as it is possible to beat them. 
Do not separate the white and yolks, and beat about 15 minutes 
with a Dover egg beater. Add to the eggs 1 lb. powdered sugar 
and beat again for 15 minutes. Then add a little flour into which 
1 teaspoon baking powder has been sifted. Put in enough more 
flour to roll like cookies, but use care not to get dough too stiff. 
Roll out 1/4 inch thick. Then place the Springerlie board face 
downward on the dough. With a sharp knife cut the cookies 
apart, place on a board, let set over night. In morning sprinkle 
some anise seed in buttered pan and bake until delicate cream 
color. Springerlie boards are purchased at hardware stores and 
are carved with animals, houses, trees, etc., and these stand out 
in relief after cookies are baked. In a cool place will keep for 
months and are very nice for children at Christmas time. 

— Miss Margaret M. Dirks. 

FRUIT COOKIES 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups sugar i/4 teaspoon cloves 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup seeded raisins Flour to permit rolling thin 

Keeping improves these cookies. — Mrs. Elizabeth Smith. 

FRUIT COOKIES 

1 V2 cups sugar Dissolve in little cold 

1 cup butter water 

Work to a cream 1 cup raisins 

3 well beaten eggs 1 cup currants 

V2 cup molasses 1 teaspoon spice in flour 
1 teaspoon soda sufficient to roll 

— Miss Mamie Hay. 

SUGAR COOKIES 

1 cupful butter 1 tablespoon water 

1 level cupful sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, beat eggs until very 
light, add to creamed mixture, add water and vanilla, then I/2 
cup flour sifted with baking powder and add flour to roll thin on 
board (about 2 level cups), knead lightly. Roll, cut, and bake in 
quick oven 10 minutes.^Mrs. Otto Fusling. 



90 MIXED COOKIES 



SUGAR COOKIES 

2 pints granulated sugar 1 rounding teaspoon soda 

1 pint lard 1 rounding teaspoon salt 

1 pint sour milk 1 tablespoon lemon or other 
4 eggs extract 

2 rounding teaspoons baking Flour to make soft dough 
powder 

Don't work very much. — Mrs. Frank Taflinger. 

SUGAR COOKIES (FILLED) 

2 level cups sugar 1 level teaspoon soda 

1 level cup lard or lard, butter 5 cups flour 

and fryings mixed 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs (well beaten) 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sour milk 2 teaspoons lemon extract 

Mix in order given, creaming sugar and lard, add eggs, beat 
soda into milk, add alternately with dry ingredients sifted to- 
gether. Roll thinly. 

Filling 

1 1/4 cups washed seeded raisins 2 level teaspoons flour 

Vz cup sugar % cup cold water 

Cook until thick, place 4 or 5 raisins and little juice on a 
rolled and cut cookie, place another on top and bake. 

— Home Bureau Member. 

NUT COOKIES 

2 cups sugar ' 1 cup sour cream 
1 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

3 eggs 1 cup chopped nuts 

Cream sugar and butter, add eggs, beat well. Then add 
cream and soda. Beat again and add flour and nuts, using flour 
enough to handle easily. Roll thin, cut and bake in a hot oven. 

■ — Mrs. Susan Dirks. 

CHOCOLATE NUT COOKIES 

2 rounding tablespoons cocoa 
1 scant teaspoon soda 
1 cup sweet milk 
% cup nuts 

Cream sugar and butter, add beaten eggs, sift dry ingredi- 
ents, add them. Add milk and nuts last. 

— Mrs. J. C. Nafziger. 

CHOCOLATE DROP COOKIES 

1 cup sugar % cup sweet milk 

1 egg 2 cups flour 

Vz cup butter or lard 2 teaspoons baking powder 

3 tablespoons cocoa Pinch of soda 

Drop from spoon in buttered pan. — Mrs. Homer Barclay. 



2 


cups brown sugar 


% 


cup butter 


2 


eggs 


3 


cups flour 



MIXED COOKIES 



91 



ENGLISH DROP COOKIES 



2 cups brown sugar 

1 cup lard and butter mixed 
1 cup cold coffee 
1 cup raisins 

3 cups flour 



2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon allspice 

— Mrs. J. F. Spencer. 



DROP CAKES 



2 cups sugar 

1 cup sorghum or other mo- 
lasses 

1 cup butter or other shorten- 
ing 



eggs 

teaspoons soda 

teaspoons cinnamon 

teaspoons spice 

Flour to make stiff batter 



Bake as drop cakes. These are delicious. 

— Mrs. Wm. Richardson, Ellsworth, III. 



GINGER GEM CAKES 



1 

2 

% 



cup sugar 

cup butter 

eggs 

cup brown molasses 

cup boiling water 



2V2 cups flour 

1 ^2 teaspoons soda 

2 teaspoons cinnamon, gin- 
ger and cloves each 
Pinch of salt 



Cream sugar and butter, add eggs well beaten, then molasses 
and boiling water. Sift flour, soda, spices and salt, add slowly 
to creamed mixture to avoid lumps and beat well. Fill gem 
pans % full of dough and let cool a short time in pan after 
baking to avoid breaking in turning out. 

— Mrs. George Curry. 



DROP GINGER COOKIES 



1 


cup sugar 


1 


teaspoon ginger 


1 


cup molasses 


1 


teaspoon soda (dissolved 


1 


cup butter or lard 




in water) 


2 


eggs 


1 


teaspoon cream tartar 


1 


cup warm water 


31/2 


cups flour 


1 


tablespoon cinnamon 







Drop in well greased pan and bake. — Mrs. Roy J. Knick. 



DELICIOUS DROP COOKIES 



Cream 1 cup white syrup, 1/2 cup white sugar, with % cup 
lard and 3 unbeaten eggs. Add 1 cup sour milk into which has 
been dissolved 1 teaspoon soda, then add 4 cups flour sifted 
with 1 teaspoon baking powder. Flavor with lemon and drop by 
full teaspoon in a greased baking pan and bake quickly. 

— Mrs. George Curry. 



92 MIXED COOKIES 



BROWN COOKIES 

1 level cup lard 2 rounding teaspoons soda 

1 cup brown sugar 1 % teaspoons cinnamon 
1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

Stil well together 1 teaspoon salt 

Boil until foamy Flour to make soft dough. 

1 cup boiling water 2 teaspoons vanilla 

When first mixture cools, dissolve soda in water, add to 
cooked mixture, beat until light, add dry ingredients and vanilla, 
flour pin and board well, roll i/4 inch thick, cut and bake. Finish 
with powdered sugar icing. — Mrs. John Gingrich. 

BROWN SUGAR COOKIES 

Cream i/^ cup lard or butter Teaspoon soda 

with 11/^ cups brown sugar Pinch salt 

Add V2 cup boiling water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 cups sifted flour V2 cup nut meats 

Drop from spoon onto a greased tin, and bake in a hot oven. 
This recipe calls for brown sugar, and calls for no eggs. So it is 
unusually economical. — Mrs. Wm. Fislar. 



Molasses and Ginger Cookies 



MOLASSES COOKIES 



cup brown sugar 
cup shortening 
cup molasses or Karo syrup 
eggs 

level teaspoons soda dis- 
solved in vinegar 



3 tablespoons vinegar 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon ginger 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
Pinch salt 
Flour to stiffen 



Mrs. T. S. Pease. 



MOLASSES COOKIES 



2 cups sorghum 

1 cup butter or lard 

3 eggs 



1 level teaspoon ginger 
1 heaping teaspoon soda 
Flour 



Mix stiff enough to roll out, cut and bake in hot oven. 

— Mrs. Harvey Miller. 



MOLASSES COOKIES 

1 cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons soda dissolved in 

1 cup New Orleans molasses 6 tablespoons hot water 

1 cup shortening 3 teaspoons ginger 

2 eggs 

Mix with flour and roll thin. — Mrs. Samuel Perry. 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup brown sugar • 3 1/^ cups flour 

1 cup meat fryings Cinnamon and nutmeg to 

1 cup cold coffee suit taste 

Drop from spoon in a well greased pan and bake. 

— Mrs. E. S. Sloane. 



1 cup sugar 

1 cup butter and lard 

1 cup sweet milk 

2 cups oatmeal 
2 cups flour 



OATMEAL COOKIES 

1 teaspoon soda in flour 



2 14 teaspoons cinnamon 
2 eggs 

Raisins if you wish 

— Mrs. Harvey Miller. 



OATMEAL COOKIES 



2 eggs 

1 cup sugar 

% cup butter or lard 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sour milk 



1 level teaspoon soda 

1 cup raisins 

2 cups oatmeal 
2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 



Add oatmeal to liquid before flour. This gives it a chance 
to swell. Drop in spoonsful on buttered tins and bake. 

— Mrs. Homer Barclay. 



94 



MOLASSES AND GIN GEE COOKIES 



1 


cup butter 


2 


cups sugar 


8 


eggs 


4 


cups oatmeal 


2% 


cups flour 



OATMEAL COOKIES 

1 cup milk 



2 cups raisins chopped 

1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 

a little hot water 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 



— Mrs. L. E. Skaggs. 



OATMEAL COOKIES 



2 cups sugar 

1 cup butter 
% cup lard 

4 cups flour 
10 tablespoons sweet milk 



2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 teaspoons soda 

4 cups oatmeal 

4 eggs 

Vz lb. raisins 



Melt shortening, add oatmeal and boil 10 minutes, and add to 
other mixture. Spread in pans to bake. Cut in squares (Nice 
when iced.) — Mrs. J. J. Zook. 

GINGER COOKIES (EGOLESS) 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 cup lard or part butter 

1 cup sorghum 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon, stroke measure % teaspoon nutmeg 

of ginger 1 heaping teaspoon soda 

Dissolve soda in boiling water, then fill the cup with boiling 
water, add flour until dough is neither stiff nor sticky, roll, cut 
and bake. — Mrs. Louie Buescher. 

EGOLESS GINGER COOKIES 

1 cup sugar 1 scant tablespoon soda 

1 cup molasses 4 cups of flour 

1 cup lard 1 tablespoon ginger 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

— Mrs. A. E. Scharfenberg. 
GINGER COOKIES 



1 cup brown sugar 

1 cup butter and lard mixed 

1 cup molasses 

1 cup sour milk 



1 tablespoon soda dissolved 
in a little hot water 
iVz cups flour 

1 tablespoon ginger 



Roll, cut out and bake. — Mrs. L. F. Oertwig. 



GINGER COOKIES 



1 cup brown sugar 
1 cup butter or lard 
1 cup sorghum molasses 
1 cup sour milk 
3 eggs 



2 teaspoons soda 
2 teaspoons ginger 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
4 cups flour sifted before meas- 
uring 



This makes drop cakes. If a loaf is desired use 3^^ cups 
flour and bake as for ginger bread. Raisins may be added. Un- 
cooked icing makes a delicious finish for this cake. 

— Mrs. Homer R. Johnston, Covell, III. 



MOLASSES AND GINGEE COOKIES 



95 



GINGER COOKIES 



1 cup butter or lard 

1 cup C. sugar 

1 cup sorghum molasses 

1 tablespoon soda 

1 cup hot water 



1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon ginger 

Flour to make stiff enough 

to roll nicely 
1 teaspoon vanilla 



Cream butter, sugar and molasses, dissolve the soda in the 
water, add then the salt, ginger and flour. Roll dough 14 inch 
thick, spread in bottom of bread pan, bake, cover with white 
boiled icing and when cool cut into squares or oblong cakes. 

—Mrs. H. L. Bell. 



GINGER COOKIES 



2 cups sugar 
1 cup lard 

1 cup molasses 
1 egg 

3 teaspoons vanilla 



heaping teaspoons soda in 1 

cup hot coffee 
level teaspoon ginger 
Pinch salt 
Flour to roll 

-Mrs. Sophia Vercler. 



GINGER COOKIES 



1 


cup sugar 


V2 


cup coffee 


y2 


cup molasses 


3 


cups of flour 




Butter size of an egg 


1 


teaspoon cinnamon 


2 


eggs, save one white for 


1 


teaspoon ginger 




frosting if desired 


1/2 


teaspoon nutmeg 


1 


teaspoon soda 


y2 


cup raisins 



Drop with a teaspoon. — Mrs. Lewis Chas. Voss. 



Doughnuts 



BREAD SPONGE DOUGHNUTS 



1 pt. bread sponge 

1 pt. warm milk 

Add flour but do not stif- 
fen, just mix with a spoon 
to a sponge 



When this has raised add: 
1 egg 
1 V2 cups sugar 
Vz cup butter 
V2 cup lard 



Stiffen moderately and let rise, then knead down and let 
rise again, roll and cut. Let rise, then fry in deep fat. 

— Mrs. J. J. Zook. 



RAISED DOUGHNUTS 



1 


cake Fleischmann's yeast 


3 


teaspoons butter 


1V4 


cups milk scalded and 


1 


small teaspoon cinnamon 




cooled 




extract 


1 


teaspoon sugar 


V4 


teaspoon mace 


41/2 


cups flour 


2 


eggs 


V2 


cup sugar 


1/4 


teaspoon salt 



Dissolve yeast and 1 teaspoon sugar in the luke warm liquid. 
Add 11/2 cups flour, beat well, cover and set aside 1 hour. Then 
add butter and sugar creamed, flavor, add well beaten eggs and 
remainder of flour and salt. 

Knead lightly and put into a well greased bowl and let raise 
iy2 hours. When light turn on board and roll 1/4 inch thick and 
cut and cover and let raise again for 45 minutes. 

Drop into hot fat with board side up. Fry a light brown. 

— Miss Margaret M. Dirks. 



POTATO DOUGHNUTS 



2 cups sugar 

1 cup mashed potatoes 
1 cup sweet milk 

3 eggs 

Y2 teaspoon soda 



3 teaspoons baking powder 
3 tablespoons hot lard 

Vz teaspoon salt 

Yz teaspoon nutmeg 

Enough flour to stiffen. 

— Mrs. J. F. Spencer. 



POTATO DOUGHNUTS 



3 Vz cups flour 


Vz teaspoon mace 


4 level teaspoons baking 


2 eggs 


powder 


1 cup cold mashed potatoes 


1 cup sugar 


% cup milk 


1 teaspoon salt 





Sift flour, salt, spice and baking powder, three times. Beat 
eggs and gradually beat in sugar, work in the mashed potatoes, 
then beat with a rotary egg beater until very smooth. Add milk 
and flour. Roll out and cut. Fry in deep fat. 

— Mrs. Eugene Nafziger. 



DOUGHNUTS 



DOUGHNUTS 



cup sugar 

cup of buttermilk or sour 

milk 

teaspoon of soda dissolved in 

the milk 

egg 



tablespoon of lard 

A little nutmeg and a little 

cinnamon 

Flour to make dough stiff 

enough to roll 



Cut into shapes and drop into the boiling lard. 

— Mrs. Chas. Strubhar. 



DOUGHNUTS 



1 cup sour cream 
1 cup sugar 
1 egg 



small teaspoon soda 
teaspoon salt 
Flavor to taste 



Mix to soft dough. Roll % inch thick, cut out round with 
hole in center; fry in hot lard. — Mrs. Fred Miller. 



1 

1/4 
1 

2 



DOUGHNUTS 



cup granulated sugar 
cup shortening 
cup sweet milk 
unbeaten eggs 



1 'Y2 teaspoon baking powder 
Nutmeg to suit taste 
• Add flour to stiffen dough 
to roll out 

— Mrs. G. W. Springer. 



DOUGHNUTS 



1 cup sugar 

1 level tablespoon butter 

2 eggs 
Pinch salt 

1 cup sour milk 



teaspoon soda in milk 
cups flour and 
teaspoon baking powder 
Flavor if desired 

— Miss Mamie Hay. 



DOUGHNUTS 



2 eggs 

1 scant cup granulated sugar 

% cup thick sour cream 

^ cup buttermilk 

1 level teaspoon soda 



2 slightly rounded teaspoons 
baking powder 
Flour to make dough as 
stiff as bread dough 



Beat eggs well, add sugar, dissolve soda in cream and 
buttermilk, beat until light and add. Sift flour and baking 
powder and add. Roll about % inch in thickness, shape in hand 
until molded right to twist. Fry and roll in sugar. (Add 2 
tablespoons melted lard if using all buttermilk.) 

— Mrs. J. A. Ewins. 



DOUGHNUTS 99 



DOUGHNUTS 

% cup butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups sugar Flour to make soft dough 

2 cups sweet milk Nutmeg or vanilla tto suit 

Pinch salt taste 

Butter, sugar, milk and unbeaten eggs are to be worked up 
in flour to which salt, baking powder and nutmeg have pre- 
viously been mixed. If using vanilla add last. 

— Mrs. O. Sebastian. 



SWEET MILK DOUGHNUTS 

4% cups sifted flour Sift together and add: 

1 level teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

2 rounding teaspoons baking 1 heaping cup C. sugar 
powder 1 cup sweet milk 

2 level teaspoons cream 3 unbeaten eggs 

tartar 7 tablespoons melted lard 

Add last four ingredients in order named without beating, 
pour in flour, dissolve soda in little hot water, add. Then mix 
just enough to handle, roll V2 inch thick, fry and roll in sugar. 

—Mrs. J. M. Bush. 



SALVATION ARMY DOUGHNUTS 

Here is the recipe for the famous Salvation Army Dough- 
nuts, the boast of every returned soldier. 

5 cups flour 2 eggs 

2 cups sugar 1% cup milk 

5 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon lard 

1 saltspoon salt 

Knead, shape with a doughnut cutter, drop into boiling lard. 
When done roll in powdered sugar. Quantity, 4 dozen. 

—Mrs. R. J. Williams. 



Pies 



BANANA PIE 

2 cups cream or milk and 1 pinch of salt 

cream 1 lump of butter 

3 tablespoons sugar Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons flour 

Mix dry ingredients and add to beaten yolks, add cream, cook 
on stove until thick. Take ofif, add 1 tablespoon of butter, flavor 
with lemon or vanilla, set aside to cool. Slice 11/2 to 2 bananas 
in baked crust of 2 pies, pour in filling. Beat 2 egg whites and 
powdered sugar or use whipped cream over the tops. 

— Mrs. Alvin Hess. 



FRUIT SALAD PIE 

1 package lemon jello % can white cherries (seeded) 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 banana 

1 pint boiling water Whipped cream 

4 slices canned pineapple 

Dissolve Jello and sugar in boiling water, set aside to cool. 
Using 2 pie pans (pyrex or granite) in one bake a rich under- 
crust, let cool. In other pan place the cubed pineapple, whole 
cherries and sliced banana. Pour over this the Jello, set on ice to 
harden, immerse in hot water, carefully slide in place in crust 
and serve cold with spoon of whipped cream on each piece. 
Other fruit may be used. 

— Mrs. Orren H. Judd, Tacoma, Wash. 



CREAM PIE 

114 tablespoons flour White of 1 egg 

Yz cup sugar Nutmeg to taste 

1 pint sweet cream 

Mix flour and sugar, beat egg white and lightly fold into the 
cream and nutmeg which have been mixed with flour and sugar. 
Pour in unbaked crust and bake as usual. — Mrs. Walter Risser. 



VINEGAR PIE 

% cup sugar 1 cup boiling water 

2 tablespoons flour 1 heaping tablespoon butter 

4 tablespoons vinegar 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Mix sugar and flour, add vinegar, then water, cook until 
thick, take off stove, add butter and lemon. Pour in unbaked 
shell, cover with strips of dough and bake. A few raisins added 
just before baking are an improvement and nutmeg may be used 
in place of lemon. — Mrs. Jennie Phillips. 



102 jPI^S 

CREAMED APPLE PIE 

Pare two large apples and slice. Place in an unbaked pie 
crust after a little flour and sugar has been put in bottom. Cover 
with 1/2 cup sweet cream % cup of sugar and sprinkle with 
cinnamon or nutmeg. Bake. This pie may also be made with 
water if lumps of butter are spread over top if cream is not to 
be had. — Mrs. John Gingerich. 



COTTAGE CHEESE PIE 

% cup of cheese Pinch of salt 

Vz cup of sugar 1 tablespoonful flour 

14 teaspoon cinnamon 1 egg 

Mix cheese, sugar, cinnamon, salt, flour, then milk, then well 
beaten egg. Put in pie crust and bake as custard pie. 

— Mrs. E. A. Kinsinger. 



FRUIT PUFFS 

1 cup flour Pinch salt 

1 heaping teaspoon baking 3 level tablespoons butter 

powder Milk to make soft dough 

Fill custard cups half full of any canned fruit, euch as 
cherries, berries, etc., add more sugar if needed. Cut dough as 
for a biscuit, place in cup on top of fruit and steam about 40 
minutes. Serve with cream or rich sauce. — McLean Recipe. 



PINEAPPLE CUSTARD PIE 

Using coarse knife grind Vz cup of water and 

1 % cups pineapple, add 1 cup sugar 

Boil above mixture 10 minutes, dissolve 2 tablespoons corn- 
starch in l^ cup cold water, add to mixture and boil 5 minutes 
longer. Remove from fire, add beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Pour 
into baked crust, cover with meringue made of egg whites and 
sugar and brown in oven. — Mrs. J. N. McCaw. 



AMBER PIE 

IV2 cups sugar Yolks of 4 eggs 

2 teaspoons flour 1 cup raisins 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup sour milk 

Vz teaspoon cloves 2 teaspoons vinegar 
Little nutmeg 

Mix sugar, flour and spices dry, add well beaten egg yolks 
and raisins and stir in milk and vinegar last. Pour in crust and 
bake, when done spread over the beaten whites and brown in 
oven. Recipe makes 2 small pies or 1 large pie as desired. 

— Miss Amelia Oehler. 



PIES 103 

SWEET POTATO CUSTARD PIE 

Good V2 cup sugar 1 egg well beaten 

2 tablespoons butter % cup sweet milk 

1 V2 cups boiled and mashed i^ teaspoon nutmeg 
sweet potatoes 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg, then potato. Beat until 
creamy, add milk and nutmeg, mix well and pour in unbaked 
shell and bake. Good hot but better cold. 

— Miss Edna L. Stephens. 

RASPBERRY WHIPPED CREAM PIE 

3 tablespoons milk 1 cup flour 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon butter Pinch of salt 

1 egg yolk 

Put sugar and salt in small pan. Add yolk beaten. Add 
milk and butter. Mix with flour until stiff enough to roll. Bake 
on outside of pie tin. 

Filling 

One pint raspberries. Put on stove and let come to a boil. 
Thicken with about 1 teaspoon flour and 1 teaspoon cornstarch. 
Pour into crust and finish with whipped cream. 

— Mrs. J. E. Riipp. 

SQUASH PIE 



1 cupful cooked squash 


1 


teaspoon cinnamon 


2 cups sweet milk 


1/2 


teaspoon ginger 


2 eggs 


M 


teaspoon cloves 


% cup sugar 


1 


saltspoon salt 



Mrs. E. S. Sloane. 



TAPIOCA PIE FILLING 

1 pint milk % teaspoon vanilla 

% cup sugar 2 small tablespoons minute 

Pinch salt tapioca 

Boil together 15 or 20 minutes, slowly. Mix one dessert spoon 
of cornstarch with a little milk and yolk of 1 egg. Stir this into 
boiling mixture. When filling is cooked remove from stove, 
stir into it the white of beaten egg. Crushed berries over the top 
are fine. — Mrs. Sophia Vercler. 

LEMON RAISIN PIE 

% cup washed seeded raisins Rind and juice of % lemon 

% cup sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour V2 cup of cold water 

Mix sugar, flour and rind dry and pour over raisins. Add 
lemon juice and butter, then water. Pour in pan and bake with 
top crust. — Mrs. Susan Stephens. 



104 PIES 

CREAM OOCOANUT PIE 

2 cups milk 2 heaping tablespoons cocoa- 

s' cup sugar nut 

Heat to boiling point, add 2 tablespoons cornstarch moistened 
in cold water. When thoroughly cooked add yolks of 2 eggs 
well beaten and a pinch of salt. Fill the baked crust and cover 
with meringue made of whites of 2 eggs beaten with V2 cup 
sugar. Sprinkle with cocoanut and brown in the oven. 

—Mrs. J. W. Yoder. 



RAISIN CUSTARD PIE 

1 tablespoon flour % cup sugar 

Vi teaspoon salt 2 eggs yolks 

Beat together and stir into 1 cup boiling milk. Just before 
removing from stove add 1 cup seeded and chopped raisins, 1 
tablespoon of butter and dash of nutmeg. Pour in baked shell. 
Beat egg whites and 2 tablespoons powdered sugar spread and 
brown in oven.^ — Miss Margaret M. Dirks. 



CARAMEL PIE 

1 cup brown sugar 1 egg 

V2 cup white sugar Butter size of an egg 

1 heaping tablespoon flour 1 % cups sweet milk 

Mix all together and cook until thick. Flavor with vanilla. 

— Miss Mildred V. Berg. 



CARAMEL PIE 

1 V2 cups brown sugar 1 14 cups milk or boiling water 
3 tablespoons flour Flavor with vanilla or a 

Lump of butter little Mapleine 

2 egg yolks 

Mix sugar and flour, add butter and well beaten yolks and 
cream together, add milk or water. Cook until thick, take from 
fire, add flavoring and pour into baked crust. Spread meringue 
made of 2 egg whites and 1 heaping tablespoon powdered sugar 
beat until smooth but not too stiff and slightly brown in oven. 
Serve cold. — Miss Katherine Crusius, El Paso, III. 



CUSTARD PIE 

2 egg yolks Flavor with lemon or 

2 heaping tablespoons sugar vanilla 

1 y2 cups sweet milk 

Beat egg yolks well, add sugar, stir into milk, flavor, pour 
in unbaked crust. Bake and cover with meringue made of 2 egg 
whites and sugar. — Mrs. Walter Nafziger. 



tit:s 105 

EGG CUSTARD PIE 

2 heaping tablespoons sugar 2 teaspoons flour 

2 egg yolks and 1 white (beat 2 cups sweet milk 

well) Flavor with nutmeg 

Mix, pour into crust, bake and cover with beaten white of 
one egg and tablespoon sugar. — Mrs. W. W. Jones. 

SOUR CREAM PIE 

1 cup sugar Vz teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup chopped raisins Vz teaspoon cloves 

3 eggs (save 2 whites for V2 teaspoon allspice 

frosting) 1 cup sour cream 

Bake as a custard pie. — Mrs. Walter Nafziger. 

SOUR CREAM PIE 

Mix together 1 cup sugar, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup sour 
cream and 1 egg well beaten, I/2 teaspoon of cinnamon, nutmeg 
and salt, 14 teaspoon cloves and a teaspoon vinegar. Bake this 
filling in 2 crusts. — Mrs. G. E. Ewins. 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

1 cup milk % cup sugar 

2 tablespoons grated choco- 3 egg yolks 
late 

Heat milk and chocolate, add sugar and egg yolks (beaten to 
a cream), add vanilla and bake with undercrust. Use white of 
eggs for frosting, or better, use whipped cream. — Mrs. J. J. Zook. 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

1 tablespoon grated chocolate 1 heaping tablespoon of corn 

1 cup sweet milk starch 

Scant % cup granulated 1 teaspoon vanilla 

sugar 2 egg whites 

2 egg yolks 

Heat milk and chocolate, beat yolks and sugar together, add 
by spoonfuls to hot milk, dissolve cornstarch in little cold milk, 
add after the milk boils. Take from stove, add vanilla. Pour in 
unbaked crust. Frost with 2 egg whites, beaten with 1 tablespoon 
powdered sugar and brown slightly in oven. 

— Mrs. L. F. Stephens, Carlock, III. 

PINEAPPLE PIE 

1 cup grated pineapple 1 heaping tablespoon corn 

Yolks of 2 eggs starch 

1 cup milk 4 tablespoons sugar 

Beat eggs, add sugar and pineapple and cornstarch, to hot 
milk. Reserve whites for top. — Mrs. W. J. McClure. 



106 PIES 

PINEAPPLE PIE 

% cup granulated sugar Small piece of butter 

5 tablespoons flour, stroke 1 pint of hot water 

measure 8 tablespoons of grated pine- 
Yolks of 2 eggs apple 

Mix sugar and flour, add beaten yolks and butter and water, 
cook until thick, when this filling is cold add the pineapple. Pour 
in baked crust that has cooled. Beat 2 egg whites for top, add 2 
teaspoons granulated sugar, then slightly brown top of pie in 
oven. — Mrs. Metta F. ImhofJ. 

ORANGE PIE 

Peel the yellow peeling from as many oranges as pan re- 
quires to make pie of proper thickness, slicing them into an 
unbaked crust. Mix together I14 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons flour. 
Pour over the oranges, cover with upper crust and bake as 
usual in moderate oven. — Mrs. Jno. Wilson. 

ORANGE PIE 

Yolks of 4 eggs and add with the juice and 

8 oz. of sugar % cup sweet milk 

Grate the rind of 2 oranges 

Mix and bake with one crust. Use the whites beaten stiffly 
with 4 tablespoons of powdered sugar and brown slightly in oven. 

— Mrs. A. Cook. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon flour 1 heaping tablespoon cooked 
Pinch of salt pumpkin 

% teaspoon each of cinnamon, 1 pint milk 

cloves (or nutmeg) 

Mix pumpkin with sugar, flour and spices, add well beaten 
eggs, then milk. Pour into crust and bake. — Mrs. Wm. Wilson. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

1 quart stewed pumpkin 1 quart cream 

2 tablespoons flour 1 quart milk 

2 cups sugar Season with nutmeg 

Makes six pies. — Mrs. T. J. Twining, Bloomington, III. 

CREAM RAISIN PIE 

2 egg yolks 1 cup milk 
% cup sugar % cup cream 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup raisins soaked in warm 

% teaspoon cloves or nutmeg water 

Line pie pan with crust, lay raisins in crust, and pour in the 
above mixture and bake. When done cover with meringue made 
of the 2 egg whites and slightly brown. — Mrs. E. S. Sloane. 



PIES 107 

CREAM RAISIN PIE 

1 cup sugar 1 saltspoon cinnamon 

1 cup raisins % teaspoon cloves 

3 egg yolks 1 % cups cream or rich milk 

Bake with 1 crust and use the 3 whites beaten up with pow- 
dered sugar to taste. This pie won one of the Pantagraph prizes. 

— Mrs. A. Cook. 

COCOANUT PIE 

To 1 quart scalded milk add Vo cup sugar, the beaten yolks 
of two eggs, and one level tablespoon cornstarch, dissolved in 
a little cold milk. Bring to a boil, stirring to prevent the inixture 
from getting lumpy. Then add 1 cup grated or shredded cocoa- 
nut which has been soaked in milk over night. Bake in an under 
crust only. When done spread with a meringue made of whites 
of 2 eggs, and 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. Beturn to oven a 
few minutes to brown lightly. This quantity is sufficient for 2 
pies. — Mrs. H. S. Fry. 

COCOANUT PIE 

1 1/^ cups granulated sugar 1 heaping teaspoon butter 

3 level tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

2 Vz cups sweet milk V2 cup cocoanut 

Mix sugar and flour, add milk and cook until thick in double 
boiler. Take from stove, add butter, lemon extract and cocoanut. 
Pour in baked shells and cover with meringue made of 2 egg 
whites and 1 heaping tablespoon powdered sugar, beaten stiffly. 
Sprinkle with cocoanut and slightly brown in oven. 

— Mrs. D. R. Schwartzentraher. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE 

1 cup brown sugar 3 tablespoons water 

3 tablespoons flour 1 cup sweet milk 
Butter size of an egg Flavor with vanilla 
Yolk of 1 egg 

Mix sugar, flour, etc., add well beaten egg yolk, cook until 
thick, stirring all the time. Take from stove, flavor and pour 
in a baked crust. Frosting or whipped cream may be spread 
on top if desired. — Miss Matilda Aiigspiirger. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE 

1 Vz cups brown sugar 1 Y2. cups cold water 

3 eggs 3 heaping tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix sugar, flour and yolks of eggs to a paste and gradually 
add the water and butter and stir over fire until thick, then add 
vanilla. Pour into a baked crust. Cover with meringue and 
brown in oven. Banana sliced in pie shell and covered with 
filling is very good.— Mrs. /. C. Nafziger. 



108 



PIES 



BUTTER SCOTCH PIE 



Mix 2 cups light brown sugar 
heaping tablespoons flour 
Pinch salt 



Beaten yolks 2 eggs 

Add 2 tablespoons butter and 

cups milk 



Cook until thick, stirring constantly, add 1 teaspoon vanilla 
and pour in baked pie shell. Cover with meringue of the egg 
whites. This recipe never fails to be delicious. 

— Miss Odessa Lovell. 



LEMON PIE 



2 cups water 

3 tablespoons corn starch 
2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup sugar 



2 eggs 

4 tablespoons lemon juice 
Vz teaspoon salt 



Put water on to boil, using 1% cups boiling, and remaining 
% cup to dissolve cornstarch, flour and sugar that have previously 
been mixed dry. Beat egg yolks, add to above ingredients and 
add slowly to boiling water, cook about 5 minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Take from stove, add lemon juice and salt. Pour in 
baked crust and spread meringue made of egg whites and brown 
in oven. — Mrs. R. W. ImhofJ. 



LEMON PIE 



4 egg yolks 

1 lemon (juice and rind) 



1 cup sugar 

2 egg whites 



To the beaten yolks of eggs add ^A of the sugar and juice 
and grated rind of the lemon, thoroughly beat and boil this mix- 
ture in double boiler until it thickens. Beat stiffly beaten whites 
of 2 eggs into the above and pour in baked crust. Make meringue 
of the other 2 egg whites and other I/4 cup sugar and spread, 
then brown in oven. — Mrs. H. Musselman. 



LEMON PIE 



1^ cups sugar 

Grated rind and juice 
lemon 



4 tablespoons flour 
Yolks of 4 eggs 
2 cups boiling water 



Mix sugar, rind, and juice and flour dry, add well beaten 
yolks, beat mixture thoroughly, add water and stir well. Cook 
until thick and pour into baked crust. Cover with meringue made 
with 2 egg whites and 2 teaspoons sugar. Makes 2 pies. 

— Mrs. Fred Nafziger. 



LEMON PIE 

1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon corn starch 2 

1 tablespoon flour 1 

Grated rind and juice of one 1 



lemon 

egg yolks 

cup boiling water 

teaspoon butter 



PIES 109 

Mix di'y ingredients, add rind, then juice of lemon, add yolks 
well beaten, stir mixture well, add water, mix well. Cook until 
thick, stirring constantly, take from stove, add butter, put in 
baked crust. Beat 2 egg whites with 1 heaping tablespoon pow- 
dered sugar, pile on the pie and slightly brown in the oven. 

— Mrs. Susan Stephens. 

LEMON PIE FILLING 

2 egg yolks 1 lemon rind and juice 

1 whole egg beaten into Squeeze juice into glass 

1 cup sugar Fill with cold water 

1 small teaspoon butter 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

Cook in double boiler. — Mrs. E. M. Minnick. 



Mince Meat 



GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT 



peck green tomatoes chopped 1 

fine, cover with cold water 2 

scald and drain, add 1 

cup chopped suet (freed from 2 

peeling and strings) 2 
lbs. of brown sugar 
lb. of raisins 



lb. of currants 

cups vinegar 

tablespoon salt 

teaspoons pepper 

teaspoons each of cinnamon, 

cloves and nutmeg 



Boil 1 hour and seal hot. Quantity 7 or 8 quarts and used 
for pies same as any mince meat. — Mrs. J. C. Nafziger. 

TOMATO MINCE MEAT 

Chop 1 peck of green tomatoes, or put through food chopper 
using coarse cutter, drain off the juice and add as much water 
as there had been juice, also add 5 pounds of brown sugar and 
2 pounds raisins. Cook slowly until tomatoes are tender. Add 
to above mixture 2 tablespoons cinnamon, allspice, cloves and 
salt, 1 cup vinegar. Boil 45 minutes, then add 6 large sour apples, 
peeled, cored and chopped. When apples are done the mince 
meat is ready for jars. Seal hot. — Mrs. E. R. Buescher. 



MINCE MEAT 



pounds lean fresh beef, boil- 
ed and when cold chopped 
fine 

lb. beef suet (cleared of 
strings and minced to pow- 
der) 

lbs. apples pared and chop- 
ped 

lbs. raisins seeded 
lb. sultana raisins washed 
and picked over 
lbs. currants washed and 
"carefully" picked over 



% lb. citron (steamed over top 
tea kettle) and cut fine 

5 tablespoons cinnamon 

3 tablespoons ground nutmeg 

1 tablespoon mace (powdered) 

1 tablespoon cloves 

1 tablespoon allspice 

1 tablespoon fine salt 

5 lbs. brown and granulated 
sugar 

1 quart boiled cider 

2 quarts rich cherry juice left 
from canning 

1 pint best brandy 



Mince meat will keep all winter if put in a tightly covered 
jar and kept in a cool place or may be canned by bringing to 
boiling heat on stove and sealing hot. — Mrs. Susan Stephens. 



MINCE MEAT 



10 lbs. beef cooked tender 

1 lb. suet, remove the outer 
peeling of suet, also stringy 
parts and chop remainder 
fine 

1 lb. citron, finely sliced 

3 cups molasses 

5 cups brown sugar 



3 cups water 

1 quart boiled cider 

1 lb. raisins 

2 lbs. currants 

Lemon and orange peel and 
spices to taste 
Twice the amount of apples 
that pounds of beef are used 



This recipe makes 3 gallons. — Mrs. J. W. Yoder. 



Short Cake 



STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

V2 cup sugar 2 heaping teaspoons baking 

1 cup milk powder 

1 egg 1 tablespoon butter 

2 cups flour Pinch of salt 

Mix flour and baking powder, rub in the butter and add sugar, 
milk and egg mixed together. Bake in two pie tins and stack. 

— Mrs. Walter Risser. 



SHORT CAKE 

1 tablespoon butter 1 pint flour 

% cup sugar 1 heaping teaspoon baking 

1 beaten egg powder 

% cup milk Sift together 

— Mrs. J no. Wilson. 



STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

1 quart flour % cup butter 

3 teaspoons baking powder Milk or water to make soft 

dough 

Divide into 2 or 3 equal parts and bake in one pan, spread- 
ing butter between layers. Bake and spread sweetened straw- 
berries between layers and over top and pour over any juice 
that is left. Serve hot with sweetened milk or better cream. 

— Mrs. Lydia A. Yoder. 



Desserts 



COCOANUT KISSES 

2 egg whites I/2 tablespoon lemon juice 

Vz cup granulated sugar 1 cup shredded cocoanut 

Pinch salt 

Beat Q^% whites very stiffly, add other ingredients and beat 5 
minutes. Bake in a greased and floured pan 20 or 30 minutes in 
a slow oven. May be used as a bon bon or cover with peaches 
or strawberries and serve with whipped cream as a dessert. 

— Miss Aurelle Barclay. 

FRESH FRUIT DAINTY 

1 tablespoon cocoa V^ lb. white grapes 
Vi cup sugar i/4 lb. tokay grapes 

2 tablespoons boiling water 15 marshmallows 

V2 cup rich cream White cherries may be used 

Vi teaspoon vanilla if desired with the grapes 

4 slices pineapple 

Dissolve cocoa and sugar in water, when cold add whipped 
cream and vanilla. Cut fruit and marshmallows into small 
pieces (seed grapes), add this to the cocoa and cream mix- 
ture. Reserve part of fruit, marshmallow and cream for deco- 
rating, place red cherry on top of cream. 

—Mrs. L. E. Skaggs. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 



11/2 


pkt. of gelatine 


1 dozen marshmallows 


1 


cup sugar 


1 cup boiling water 


1 


teaspoon vanilla 


Whites of 2 eggs (beaten) 


2 


teaspoons lemon juice 





Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, add 
sugar. Set in pan cold water, beat constantly until cool, add 
whites. If serving at once add marshmallow previously beaten 
with hot water, can divide in 3 parts, color one part, set a mold, 
arrange in colors with a color in center. Set on ice one hour or 
if not using marshmallows, 3 hours, as could be made without. 
Serve with whipped cream. — Mrs. J. H. Engel. 

BLANC MANGE 

2 cups sweet milk Heat to boiling point 

4 tablespoons sugar 

Dissolve 2 level tablespoons cornstarch in i/4 cup cold milk, 
add to hot milk, when thick take from stove and add 1 teaspoon 
lemon or vanilla. 

Dip custard cups in cold water, pour in mixture mold. Serve 
with whipped cream. One level tablespoon cocoanut to a cup 
may be added if desired if lemon is used to flavor. 

- — Mrs. Roy J. Knick. 



DESSEBTS 115 



SNOW BALLS 

2^4 cups of flour Vz cup sweet milk 

3 Vz teaspoons baking powder 4 egg whites 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

% cup butter 

Sift dry ingredients, cream butter and sugar, add milk and 
flour; alternately fold in well beaten egg whites and vanilla. Put 
in buttered cups and steam from % to % of an hour. Serve 
with pineapple sauce. — Mrs. Henry Knapple. 



PINEAPPLE SAUCE 



% 


cup of sugar 


2 


tablespoons butter 


1 


tablespoon corn starch 


IV2 


tablespoons lemon juice 




Little salt 


H 


cup grated pineapple 


1 


cup of cold water 







Mix dry ingredients, add water, cook until quite thick, add 
the lemon and butter. Take from stove, stir in the pineapple. 

— Mrs. Henry Knapple. 

HEAVENLY HASH 

1 quart boiling water Small pinch salt 
4 tablespoons minute tapioca Add a small can grated pine- 
Cook in double boiler until apple 
clear 1 cup sugar 

Cook 5 more minutes. Set in cool place. Serve with whipped 
cream over top. — Mrs. W. R. Yerke, Elkhart, Ind. 



HEAVENLY HASH 

1 pint whipped cream 25 best marshmallows sliced 

1 cup chopped nuts and some fine 

candied cherries 

Mix the marshmallows with the whipped cream and nuts. 
Let stand on ice for several hours, decorate with cherries and 
serve ice cold. — Mrs. Lillian Caton, Stanford, HI. 

(Kindness of a Danvers friend) 



EXCELLENT SALAD 

Peel 4 oranges and separate the lobes, then cut in 4 pieces. 
Scald, blanch and skin 1 cup English walnut meats, then dry 
kernels and set away to cool. Mix the oranges with the kernels 
and add 1/2 cup skinned white grapes. Set on ice 1 hour, pile on 
lettuce leaves and serve with whipped cream or mayonnaise 
dressing as preferred. — Mrs. W. F. Armstrong, Stanford, HI. 



116 DESSEBTS 



DUCHESS CREAM 

One pint tapioca soaked over night, drain and cover with 
hot water. Let simmer until clear, stirring all the time. Add 
juice of 2 lemons, % can chopped pineapple and 2 cups sugar. 
Lastly add beaten whites of 2 eggs. Serve cold with cream. 
— Mrs. Harry Kauffman, Stanford, III. 



TAPIOCA CREAM 

Cook in a double boiler for 15 minutes, 1 quart milk, 2 heap- 
ing tablespoons minute tapioca and salt to taste, stirring fre- 
quently. Beat yolks of 2 eggs, add I/2 cup sugar and stir into the 
above. Cook until thick like custard. Remove from stove, pour 
into dish and whip in beaten whites of eggs until no white 
shows. Flavor as desired. When cold pour over fresh fruit and 
serve. — Mrs. Harvey Miller. 



NUT CREAM 

Soak 2 tablespoons gelatine in i/^ cup cold water. When 
set, place mold in a pan of hot water to dissolve. Whip 1 pint 
of thick cream and turn the gelatine again and again in the 
cream, add % cup sugar, stiffly beaten white of 1 egg, 1 cup of 
chopped nuts and flavor with vanilla or as desired. Let stand 
until firm and serve with whipped cream on top. This makes a 
very pretty dessert with pink gelatine and % cup nut meats and 
y2 cup chopped dates are also nice. 

— Miss Edna L. Dressier, El Paso, HI. 



SPANISH CREAM 

1 pint cold milk - 8 tablespoons sugar 

1 package of gelatine Whites of 4 eggs 

Yolks of 4 eggs Vanilla flavoring 

Dissolve the gelatine in the milk, beat sugar into yolks, add 
to milk just before it reaches boiling heat. Then boil until it 
begins to thicken. Take from stove, cool a little, add beaten egg 
whites and vanilla. Serve cold. — Mrs. Henry Knapple. 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM 

1 envelope gelatine 1 cup sugar 

1 cup cold water 1 pint rich cream 

1 pint grated pineapple 

Soak gelatine in cold water, let pineapple and sugar simmer 
on back of stove 20 minutes. Add gelatine, pour into a pan, beat 
until the gelatine starts to thicken, add cream (whipped). Set 
over ice to harden. Chopped nuts and maraschino cherries may 
be added if desired. — Mrs. F. E. Risser. 



DESSEBTS 117 



(a) MARSHM ALLOW CREAM 

^ pound marshmallows 1 cup pecans 

1 cup rich cream 

Dip scissors in cold water and cut up marshmallows. Whip 
cream. Chop nuts, and mix all together. Set on ice. 



(b) Brownies 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Yz cup flour Vz cup butter 

2 eggs 2 squares chocolate 
Nuts 

Stir up like cake, pour in greased pan. Bake 20 or 30 min- 
utes. Cut in squares. 

. — Miss Ada V. Willerton, 
318 E. Chestnut St., Bloomington, III. 



Fruit Salads 



FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

Vz cup sugar 1 cup pineapple juice 

1 heaping tablespoon flour Juice of 1 lemon 

Mix sugar and flour, add liquids and 1 beaten egg. Cook 
until thick in double boiler. When cold add 1/2 pint of whipped 
cream. Use as a dressing for a salad of pineapple cubes, seeded 
and halved grapes, marshmallows and nuts or any other fruit 
salad, — Mrs. Fred W. Kuppersmith, Youngstown, Ohio. 

FRUIT DRESSING 

1 orange V2 cup granulated sugar 

1/4 cup lemon juice 7 tablespoons cornstarch 

1/4 cup pineapple juice 2 eggs 

3 tablespoons of water 

Cook together liquids, sift dry ingredients together, stir hot 
liquids into dry ingredients. Cook 15 minutes in double boiler, 
then slightly beat eggs and beat mixture constantly while adding 
them. Return to stove and cook 1 minute. Use whipped cream 
to thin dressing. — Mrs. Metta F. Imhoff. 

CRANBERRY TARTS 

Make a rich pastry cut to fit shallow oblong mufTm pans. 
Bake, when cold place an oblong slab of rich cranberry jelly on 
each, add a spoonful of whipped cream and a maraschino cherry. 
Serve on salad plates or a large fancy plate. — Mrs. R. M. 

PINEAPPLE FLUFF 

1 cup chopped pineapple V2 cup nuts 

1/4 pound marshmallows 1 cup whipped cream 

White of 1 egg and mashed banana may be used instead of 
cream. — Miss Clara R. Brian, Bloomington, III. 

BANANA SALAD 

Cut bananas into quarters, roll in nuts and serve with 
mayonnaise. — Mrs. B. F. Springer. 

FRUIT AND MARSHMALLOW SALAD 

4 bananas white cherries 
1 pint pineapple 1 cup nuts 

1 pound white grapes or i/^ pound marshmallows 

Mix lightly with an extra good mayonnaise. May be used as 
an individual salad with good taste or served in a salad bowl. 

—Mrs. W. J. McClure. 



FBUIT SALADS 119 



FRUIT SALAD 

1 can sliced pineapples cut in 2 boxes Angelus marshmal- 

small pieces lows cut in quarters 

1 can seeded white cherries 14 pound pecans cut in small 

pieces 

Dressing 

1 pint of cream after it is 3 tablespoons of any salad 

whipped dressing 

1/4 teaspoon dry mustard 

Serve in nests made of head lettuce. 

— Mrs. Hubert L. Kilhy, Jefferson City, Mo. 



FRUIT SALAD 

2 pounds tokay grapes 15 or 20 marshmallows 

1 quart pineapple Add nut meats if preferred 

Dressing 

2 egg yolks beaten light i/4 cup cream, boil in double 
Juice of Yz lemon boiler, add stiffly beaten 

whites of eggs and V4, cup 
whipped cream, when cold 

Serves 15 people. — Miss Helen Springer. 

CHERRY SALAD 

1 quart of cherries 1 orange 

1 box Plymouth Rock gelatine Juice of one lemon 

1 small can of grated pineapple 

If cherries are not sweet enough, add sugar. Soak gelatine 
in part of the cherry juice, using the remainder hoiling hot to 
dissolve it. Mix all together and set aside to harden as fruit 
salad. This can be made and set over night. 

— Mrs. David S. Ummel. 

GRAPENUT SALAD 

2 cups apples chopped % cup grape nuts 

3 oranges diced in small Vi cup granulated sugar 
pieces 

Mix all together and serve with whipped cream. Quantity 
cream % pint. (May use less if desirecl). 

— Miss Aurelle Barclay. 

APPLE AND ORANGE SALAD 

Boil 1 cup sugar and 1/2 cup water until thick enough to jell, 
then add 2 cups peeled and halved apples. Boil until done, take 
apples out. Let water cool and jell, add grated pulp and juice 
of one orange, stir into apples and serve with whipped cream 
or marshmallows cut in small pieces. 

— Mrs. Lewis Stephens, Congerville, Ul. 



120 FBUIT SALADS 



PINEAPPLE SALAD 

1 can pineapple 2 cups marshmallows 

1 cup nuts 

Drain juice off of pineapple and cut into small pieces. Also 
nuts and marshmallows and mix with mayonnaise or serve on 
individual salad plates with whipped cream. — Mrs. J. E. Rupp. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Blanch and cut up 1 cup al- 2 tablespoons sugar 

mends. Strain and cut into 2 tablespoons pineapple juice 

small pieces 1 can pineapple 4 tablespoons vinegar 

Beat 2 eggs, add Butter size of a walnut 

Cook thoroughly, cool and add to nuts and pineapple. Let 
stand until very cold. When ready to serve mix with whipped 
cream. Serves 6 or 8 people. — Mrs. W. J. McClure. 



Ice Cream and Sherberts 



FRENCH ICE CREAM 

Vz cup sugar 2 cups scalded milk 

1 teaspoon flour 2 egg whites 

Yolks of 2 eggs 1 cup double cream whipped 

Vie teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix sugar and flour, add egg yolks, add scalded milk. Cook 
in double boiler, slowly pour the hot custard over the beaten egg 
whites just before freezing. When cool add whipped cream 
and vanilla. — Mrs. Edward Oehler. 



ICE CREAM 

1 quart milk 2 cups of sugar 

^2 cup flour 2 tablespoons vanilla 

% cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon extract 

Boil when cool, add Freeze 

1 quart of cream 



Makes 11/2 gallon.— Mrs. A. H. Otto. 



ICE CREAM 

11/4 lbs. sugar IV2 oz. crystal flake 

3 eggs, use yolks of only one Vanilla 

Dissolve crystal flake in 1 quart of milk. Using double boiler 
strain through a cloth. Add enough cream and milk to fill a 
gallon freezer. — Mrs. Arthur Twenty. 



ICE CREAM 

Y2 gallon mornings milk 1 quart of thick cream 

1 pint sugar Flavor with lemon and va- 

Scant 1/4 pint of flour nilla or any flavoring de- 

sired 

Heat milk to scalding heat in pan of water on the stove. 
Mix sugar and flour dry, sift gradually into hot milk and cook 
a few minutes, take from stove and when cool stir in cream 
and flavoring. Freeze as usual. Quantity 1 gallon. 

— Mrs. C. R. Ewins. 



ANGEL PARFAIT 

1 pint cream (whipped) Vz cup nut meats 

1/4 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 glass strawberry perserves 

Mix all ingredients together and freeze 2V2 hours in ice 
and salt. — Mrs. Geo. D. Kime. 



122 



ICE CEEAM AND SEEBBETS 



APRICOT SHERBET 



pint of dried apricots, after 

being cooked and run 

through colander 

quart of sugar 

quart of boiling water to 



thick syrup, pour over apri- 
cots 

Juice of 4 lemons 
package of ice cream pow- 
der 
Freeze 



Makes 1 gallon.— Mrs. A. H. Otto. 



PINEAPPLE SHERBET 



1 pint sugar 

1 quart cold water 

1 can grated pineapple 



3 or better 4 lemons 

2 egg whites 

1 tablespoon sugar 



Boil sugar and water until sugar dissolves, let cool and add 
the pineapple pulp and juice of lemons. Pour in freezer and 
when partly frozen add the egg whites and tablespoon of sugar 
which have been beaten until foamy. Finish freezing as usual. 

— Mrs. Edward Oehler. 



MILK SHERBET 



Juice and fine pulp of 3 

oranges 

Juice and fine pulp of 3 

lemons 

(Remove all peeling and 

seeds) 



1 cup sugar 

Put into freezer to chill and 
stir occasionally 
Add 1 quart new milk 
(Better Vz cream, % milk) 



Freeze as usual. (Half gallon). Add more oranges and 
sugar to taste to make 3 quarts. Milk or cream, oranges and 
sugar are added to make gallon. — Mrs. J. T. Ayers. 



Puddings 



ORANGE DUMPLINGS 

3 oranges sliced 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups water Pinch salt 

Boil to a syrup Scant teaspoon lard 

Enough water to make medium stiff batter. Drop from 
spoon in orange syrup. Boil slow. Do not let syrup boil up over 
top of dumplings. — Mrs. Jno Wilson. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

Into a hot skillet pour 3 tablespoons sugar and burn until 
dark liquid, stirring constantly. Pour over this 1 pint heated 
milk and stir until dissolved. When cool pour into 2 well beaten 
eggs. Flavor with vanilla. Pour into cups and set in a pan of 
water and bake in oven. Test with a silver knife (when done 
will not stick to knife). Be careful not to bake too long. 

— Miss Margaret M. Dirks. 

SNOW PUDDING 

1 pint of milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 tablespoon cocoanut V2 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons sugar White 1 egg 

Put milk and cocoanut in double boiler, heat, mix sugar and 
cornstarch with a little milk. Pour into milk, have white of egg 
beaten stiff, and when cornstarch is done take off stove and fold 
in the white of egg. Pour into molds. 

Sauce for Snow Pudding 

1 cup milk Vi teaspoonful lemon and the 

1 teaspoonful cornstarch yolk of the egg 

1 tablespoonful sugar 

Boil until thick. — Mrs. E. A. Kinsinger. 

STEAMED SPONGE PUDDING 

1 egg well beaten V4. teaspoon cloves 

V2 cup molasses beaten with 1 teaspoon soda in V2 cup hot 

the egg water 

% cup raisins, nuts 1 scant cup flour 

1 teaspoon cinnamon Salt 

Steam one hour. 

Sauce for Pudding 

1 cup sugar Butter size of walnut 

1 egg Lemon flavoring 

% cup cold water 

— Mrs. E. M. Minnick. 



PUDDINGS 



125 



BANANA PUDDING 



2 pints scalded milk 

2 eggs 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 



y2 teaspoon vanilla 
Vz cup sugar 
M cup water 



Scald two pints milk, mix yolks of eggs, cornstarch, and 
sugar, add water, stir into milk, cool, add vanilla. When ready 
to serve, whip whites of eggs, slice % banana to 1 dish, cover 
with pudding, little meringue, and one red cherry on top. 

— Mrs. Jas. F. Lamhdin. 



LIGHT BREAD PUDDING 

eggs beaten separately 
cup sugar 

slice bread buttered 
teaspoon lemon extract 

Egg whites and raisins should be added last. 

— Mrs. L. F. Stephens, Carlock, III 



3 

1 
1 



1 Vz pint rich milk 

Add some raisins if prefer- 
red 



MAPLE PUDDING 

2 cups brown sugar 1 V2 cups of water 

Bring to a boil and add 2 tablespoons cornstarch (dissolved 
in cold water), 1 tablespoon butter and a few nut meats. Flavor 
with vanilla after taking from the stove. Serve cold. 

—Mrs. E. S. Sloane. 



CUSTARD PUDDING 



5 cups sweet milk 
5 eggs 



l^ cup sugar 
1 teaspoon lemon extract 

—Mrs. Wm. C. Allen. 



LEFT OVER CAKE PUDDING 

% cup cake crumbs 2% tablespoons granulated 

sugar 
14 teaspoon nutmeg or cinna- 
mon 



1 Vz cups sweet milk 
1 egg 
1 teaspoon butter 



Bake in oven until done and nicely browned. Serves 3 people. 

— Home Bureau. 



WOODFORD PUDDING 



1 cup of sugar 

Vz cup of butter or lard 

% cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda 

2 eggs (one will do) 



Flour to make batter slight- 
ly stiffer than cake 
1 cup of raisins 

Spices to suit taste 



Sauce for Pudding 

1 cup sugar 3 tablespoons vinegar and 

1 cup of water little nutmeg 

Generous lump of butter 

Let boil and add enough dissolved cornstarch to thicken to 
consistency of thin cream. Omit vinegar and add 2 tablespoons 
cocoa makes sweet sauce. — Mrs. G. C. 



126 



PUDDINGS 



ABE LINCOLN PUDDING 



2 heaping cups bread crumbs 
1 1/^ cups sweet milk 

1 egg 

1 tablespoon melted butter 
% cup molasses 
% cup raisins 



V2 teaspoon soda 
2 tablespoons brown sugar 
A little salt, cloves and 
cinnamon 
Steam 



Sauce 

1 tablespoon butter creamed 
with Vz cup sugar 

Serve hot. — Mrs. Mary Nafziger. 



1 cup boiling water 



CARROT PUDDING 



1 pound grated carrots 
% lb. chopped suet 
% lb. raisins 
^2 lb. currants 



Steam 4 hours, 
sauce. 



4 tablespoons sugar 
8 tablespoons flour 
Spices to suit the taste 



Place in oven for 20 minutes. Serve with 



Sauce 



1 cup butter 

2 cups powdered sugar 



V2 cup wine 



Beat butter to cream. Add sugar gradually. When light 
add wine which has been heated. Place in bowl of water and stir 
until smooth. — Mrs. Wm. C. Allen. 



HASTY PUDDING 



Put in baking pan 
2 V2 cups hot water 
% cup sugar 
1 tablespoon butter 
In another pan stir up 
% cup sugar 



% cup sweet milk 

1 cup of flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
% teaspoon cinnamon and 
y2 cup raisins 



Stir batter up well together. Pour into center of pan of hot 
water, but do not stir, merely set in oven and bake 30 minutes, 
and the sauce for pudding will be made right with it. Apples, 
etc., may be used in place of raisins. — Mrs. C. H. Twining. 



CORN PUDDING 



1 quart of corn cut from cob 
1 teaspoon of salt 
Pepper to suit taste 

1 tablespoon of sugar 

2 tablespoons of butter 



V2 pint of cream and 
2 pints milk 

2 eggs beaten separately and 
added last 



Bake until corn is done. — Mrs. L. F. Stephens, Carlock, III. 



PUDDINGS 127 



SUET PUDDING 

1 pound suet crumbled fine 1 cup molasses 

1 pound currants 2 cups sugar 

1 pound raisins Vz cup milk 

1 Yz pounds of flour or five cups 1 ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

7 eggs 

Steam 4 hours. — Mrs. J no Wilson. 

SUET PUDDING 

1 cup suet 1 heaping teaspoon cinna- 

1 cup molasses mon 

1 cup sweet milk Vz teaspoon allspice 

1 teaspoon soda Nutmeg to flavor 

dVz cups of flour 2 cups raisins 

Steam 3 hours and serve hot with whipped cream or rich 
sauce. — Mrs. Walter Risser. 

CHERRY PUDDING 

1 Vz cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Butter size of an egg in flour enough to make 

1 egg stiff batter 

1 cup sweet milk 1 V2 cups fresh or canned cher- 

ries 

Bake and serve with sugar and cream. — Mrs. Ira Hiilva. 

CHERRY TAPIOCA PUDDING 

3 rounding tablespoons minute Let stand 15 minutes 

tapioca Add about a pint of canned 

2 cups tepid water cherries, juice and fruit and 

a cup of sugar 

Bake % hour in moderate oven. Serve warm but not hot 
with whipped cream. Other fruit may be used. 

— Miss Margaret M. Dirks. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

Vi lb. prunes Pinch of salt 

Whites of 5 eggs Pint whipped cream 

5 tablespoons of sugar 

Stew prunes without sugar until tender. Take seed-kernel 
from prunes, chop finely with the prunes. Beat white of eggs 
until stiff, add prunes, sugar and salt. Pour into a buttered pan, 
set into pan of cold water and place in oven until brown. Serve 
with whipped cream. — Miss Harriet Randolph. 

PRUNE WHIP 

34 pound prunes cooked and Whites of 3 eggs beaten 

stoned, slightly chopped 1 cup of sugar 

Stir the prunes in this and bake 20 minutes, and serve with 
whipped cream. — Mrs. J. J. Zook. 



128 PUDDINGS 



STEAMED PUDDING 

V2 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

1 egg 2 level teaspoons baking 

V2 cup milk powder 

1 tablespoon shortening Vanilla 

1 V2 cups flour 

Pour mixture over stewed fruit and boil slowly. Any kind 
of fruit may be used. — Mrs. Homer Barclay. 

STEAMED PUDDING 

1 cup of molasses 1 teaspoon of soda (dissolved 

% cup melted butter in the boiling water) 

3 cups flour 1 cup raisins 

1 cup boiling water 

Steam 3 hours, serve hot with whipped cream sweetened and 
flavored to taste. Serves 12 people. — Miss Dorothy Artis. 

APPLE PUDDING 

1 pint flour 1 tablespoon butter 

% cup sugar 1 egg 

1 teaspoon baking powder % cup milk 

Pinch nutmeg 

Sift flour, sugar, baking powder and nutmeg. Add butter, 
beat egg in a cup and add enough milk to fill cup. Stir together 
and pour over cooked tart apples (without juice) and bake. 

— Mrs. J. J. Zook. 

APPLE PUDDING 

Slice tart apples thin in pan and sprinkle with sugar, using 
1 cup sugar to 4 apples. Make cake batter of 1 cup sugar, butter 
size of an egg, 1/2 cup milk, II/2 cups of flour and 1 teaspoon 
baking powder. — Mrs. H. L. Stuckey. 

DATE PUDDING 

4 eggs beaten separately ' 2 level teaspoons baking 
'i-V2 cups granulated sugar powder 

4 tablespoons sweet milk 2 cups chopped nuts 

3 rounding tablespoons flour 2 cups chopped dates 

Bake 40 minutes in a pan set in boiling water. Cover inside 
of pan with brown paper. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

— Mrs. Eugene Nafziger. 

DATE AND NUT PUDDING 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 lb. English walnut meats 

1 teaspoon baking powder (broken) 

9 tablespoons cracker crumbs V2 lb. dates (chopped) 

6 egg yolks (beaten) 6 egg whites (beaten stiffly) 

Bake in slow oven and serve with whipped cream. 

— Mrs. T. J. Twining, Bloomington, 111. 



PUDDINGS 129 



ANGEL FOOD DATE PUDDING 

6 egg yolks powder 

1 cup granulated sugar 6 egg whites 

4 rounding tablespoons flour 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 rounding teaspoon baking 1 cup chopped dates 

Beat yolks, add Yz of sugar, sift flour and baking powder 
and add to yolks. Beat M'hites, add remaining half of sugar to 
them, then slightly warm nuts and dates, roll in little extra flour. 

Add, and lightly stir in whites last. Bake in pan lined with 
buttered paper and set in another pan of hot water in oven. Bake 
1 hour and set aside to cool in the pan of water and serve with 
whipped cream. Can be used at once but improves by keeping 
and will keep several days in cool weather. — Mrs. C. R. Ewins. 

PLUM PUDDING 

1 cup white sugar 1 cup raisins 

V2 cup butter Vz teaspoon soda 

1 cup sweet milk 

Add flour to make a little stiff er than cake batter. Soda may 
be added with the flour or dissolved in a little hot water. Steam 
lYz hours. Serve with a rich sauce. — Mrs. Sophia Vercler. 

Sauce 

1 quart water 1 tablespoon flour or corn 

1 teaspoon butter starch 

1 cup sugar 

Boil and flavor with nutmeg (about 1 teaspoon). Cook until 
thick. — Mrs. Leslie Brooks, Lexington, III. 



PLUM PUDDING 

1 bowl chopped suet (1 lb.) Vz teaspoon allspice 

1 bowl chopped apples Flour to make very stiff 

1 bowl raisins (well floured) To 1 pint of above directions 

1 bowl molasses (or % syrup add 

and Vz brown sugar) 1 egg 

1 bowl sweet milk 3 tablespoons sour milk 

Vz teaspoon ginger 1 teaspoon soda 

Vz teaspoon cloves A little more flour 

Vz teaspoon nutmeg And any "left over" preserve 

Vz teaspoon cinnamon or jam or candied fruit 

Steam in tightly covered vessel, about two hours. Put in 
stone jar and keep cool and dry. 

Sauce 

1 Vz cups brown sugar 1 tablespoon flour 

Vz cup butter 

Mix well and add 1 cup boiling water. Boil till thick, and 
add juice and a little rind of 14 lemon and Vo orange. 

— Miss Anna Griffin, Bloomington, III. 



130 PUDDINGS 



CHRISTMAS PUDDING 

2 cups ground suet 1 tablespoon orange peel 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 tablespoon lemon peel 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon ginger 

2 teaspoons baking powder ^4 teaspoon cloves 

2 cups seeded raisins % teaspoon nutmeg 

2 cups currants % teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup citron, cut fine 1 cup prune juice 

1 cup figs, cut fine 1 cup other fruit juice 

Mix thoroughly all dry ingredients, add fruit, stir in juices, 
add more water if necessary to make stiff dough. Put into bag 
or greased pan, and steam 5 or 6 hours. Is better to make 3 or 
4 days before needed, then steam one hour before serving. Is 
very good served with a foamy sauce, — Mrs. Roy Musselman. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

One egg, well beaten, add 1/2 cup sugar, mix with 1 cup milk. 
Pour this gradually over 2 cups flour sifted with 3 scant teaspoons 
baking powder and a pinch of salt. Add 2 squares melted choco- 
late. Place in a buttered mold and steam 1% hours. Serve with 
whipped cream. — Miss Clara Bernaii. 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

^ cup chocolate 2 tablespoons flour 

1 pint hot water % cup sugar 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

Boil until thick. Beat whites of 2 eggs, add ^/^ cup granu- 
lated sugar and 2 bananas. Flavor with vanilla and put in above 
while warm and mix together lightly. Serv^e cold. 

—Mrs. J. L. Tyner, Stanford, III. 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 pint boiling sweet milk 2 tablespoons cocoa 

4 heaping tablespoons flour 1 cup sugar 

Mix flour, cocoa and sugar together and stir until smooth. 
Add pinch of salt and 1 teaspoon of butter. Stir in milk and add 
1 teaspoon vanilla. — Mrs. Ira Halva, 



Marmalades 



PEAR HONEY 



3 large or 4 medium sized 1 pint cold water 

pears 2 pounds sugar 

Run the pears through the food chopper. Boil all together 
11/4 hours or until it drops thick from the spoon. Skim while 
boiling. — Mrs. L. E. Skaggs. 



MARMALADE 

1 lb. dried apricots (best 1 qt. can sliced pineapple 

quality) 1 small can grated pineapple 

Soak apricots in hot water over night, then cook twenty-five 
minutes. Mash very fine. Add pineapple, finely shredded, also 
pineapple juice. Then add as much sugar as pulp, and cook 
twenty-five minutes, stirring constantly. Put in jelly glasses. 

— Mrs. Flora Ellen Drohan. 



ORANGE MARMALADE 

Three oranges peeled. Peal white off good. Cut oranges 
and rind real thin. One lemon cut fine. Add 6 cups of water, 
and leave stand 24 hours, then boil 30 minutes. Should be eight 
cups when boiled. Add 6 cups sugar, 2 cups crystal white Karo. 
Boil like jelly. — Mrs. J. C. Nafziger. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

7 oranges Add 3 pints of water to each 

5 lemons pound of fruit 

Slice thin peel and add all 

Let stand 24 hours, then boil % of an hour and let stand 
again 24 hours. Weigh and to each pound of fruit and water, 
add 114 pounds of sugar, let fruit and water reach boiling point 
before adding sugar, then boil until clear and will jell. Be gen- 
erous with sugar. — Mrs. Walter Risser. 



Canning 



CANNING CORN 

8 cups of corn 1 cup sugar 

2 cups of water V^ cup of salt 

Cook 20 minutes after it boils and seal hot. 

— A Nebraska recipe given by Mrs. W. H. Ayers. 

CANNED CORN 

12 cups of corn 1 cup of sugar 

2 cups of salt 

Let stand 20 minutes or add a little water. Boil 30 minutes 
and seal hot. — Mrs. Claude King. 



I 



Confectionery 



BUTTER SCOTCH CANDY 

1 cup Karo syrup 1 cup sugar 

% teaspoon vinegar % cup butter 

Mix and boil until brittle when dropped into cold water. 

— Mrs. Walter Nafziger. 



AIRY KISSES 

2 cups brown sugar White of 1 egg 

y2 cup water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon vinegar 1 cup nut meats 

Boil sugar, water and vinegar until it threads, pour slowly 
over the stiffly beaten egg white. Beat well, add nuts and vanilla 
and drop with a spoon on waxed paper, — Miss Irene Sloane. 

COOOANUT CANDY 

2 cups sugar Butter size of walnut 

1 cup milk 

When sugar and milk boil good, add butter, cook till it forms 
soft ball in water, then add cup of cocoanut and vanilla. Then 
beat and pour on buttered plate, cut in squares before entirely 
hard. — Miss Fern McClure. 



FRENCH NOUGAT 

2 cups sugar 3 tablespoons water 

% cup Karo corn syrup 

Boil until brittle. Beat whites of 2 eggs stiff. Put cooked 
syrup in eggs with 1 cup chopped walnuts and stir for half an 
hour or more. Do not fail to stir it.— Mrs. E. C. Hinshaw. 



WHITE FONDANT 

4 cups granulated sugar 1 level teaspoon cream of 

2 cups hot water tartar 

Stir over a moderate fire until the sugar is dissolved. Then 
place over a quick fire, and allow to boil without stirring until 
it forms a soft ball when tested in cold water. Remove from 
fire, and set aside until cool, not cold, then stir vigorously with 
a spoon or wooden paddle until it creams and becomes stiff. 
When too thick to stir, knead in the hands until light and creamy. 
Place in an earthen vessel or crock, keep covered with a damp 
cloth, and in 24 hours will be ready for use, but if cloth is kept 
damp it will keep a number of weeks. 

Many varieties of candies may be made from this fondant. 

— Mrs. John Cooper. 



CONFECTIONERY 139 



CREAM CANDY 

9 tablespoons sugar 5 tablespoons water 

4 tablespoons vinegar 

Boil this until it threads or gets hard in water, do not stir 
while boiling. Add Yz teaspoon vanilla, pull until white over 
stove or register so it will not get hard too quickly. 

— Mrs. Alvin Guth, Washington, III. 



CREAM TAFFY 

3 cups granulated sugar 3 tablespoons vinegar 

l^ cup water Butter size of walnut 

Boil without stirring until it will candy when dropped in cold 
water. Flavor. Pour on buttered dish and when cold pull until 
white. — Mrs. LeRoy Stephenson. 



NUT CANDY 

l^^ cups brown sugar Vz cup cream 

Vz cup molasses 

Boil until forms rather hard ball in water, remove from fire, 
add butter size of a walnut and 1 cup walnut meats. Beat slightly 
and pour into buttered pan, mark into squares or as desired. 

— Mrs. Harvey Miller. 



CINNAMON ROLL CANDY 

% pt. cream V2 teaspoon vinegar 

1 pt. sugar */4 teaspoon cream of tartar 

Small piece butter 

Boil cream, sugar, vinegar, cream of tartar, until it forms 
a soft ball when tested in cold water, add butter and pour into 
buttered pan. When about cool, beat until light and fluffy. 
Divide into two portions, butter hands and roll it, sprinkle lightly 
with cinnamon and slice in 1 inch lengths. 

—Mrs. T. W. Slupianek, Greenville, III. 



BROWN SUGAR CARAMEL CANDY 

2 cups brown sugar V2 cup milk 

Boil to the soft ball stage in water. Take from stove, add 
teaspoon or more of butter, 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, beat and add 
% cup chopped nuts. Pour into buttered pan and mark into 
squares. — Mrs. J. J. Zook. 



140 CONFECTIONEEY 



CANDY 

3 cups sugar V2 cup water 

Vz cup syrup Whites 2 eggs beaten stiff 

Cook sugar, syrup and water until it makes a soft ball in 
water. Then pour one-half cup this mixture into beaten whites 
and stir rapidly, cook rest of the syrup until it makes a hard ball 
in water. Pour over the other mixture, stirring constantly, add 
one cup nuts and beat until spongy. Pour in buttered pan. 

— Miss Ada V. Willerton, 
318 E. Chestnut St., Bloomington, III. 



ICE CREAM CANDY 

3 cups sugar V2 cup hot water 

% teaspoon cream of tartar Vz tablespoon vinegar 

Boil ingredients together, without stirring, until mixture be- 
comes brittle when tried in cold water. Turn on buttered platter, 
as edges cool, fold toward center. When sufTiciently cool enough 
to handle, pull until white and glossy. While pulling add vanilla, 
orange, chocolate, or any preferred flavor. Cut with scissors or 
a sharp knife. — Mrs. John Cooper. 



SEA FOAM CANDY 

1 pound brown sugar V2 cup of water 

Boil until it forms a thick syrup. Beat white of one egg very 
stiff, gradually pour syrup on egg, beat constantly. When getting 
a little stiff add 1 teaspoon vanilla. Add one cup of nuts. When 
mixture will stand alone, drop from spoon on buttered dish, or 
just pour into a buttered dish or platter and cut out in squares. 

— Mrs. Wm. Fislar. 



SEA FOAM CANDY 

To 4 cups brown sugar add % cup water and boil until it 
threads. Beat the whites of 2 eggs, pour syrup into eggs, beating 
constantly. Add I/2 cup of chopped nuts and stir until thick and 
dip out in balls on buttered plate. 

—Mrs. W. W. Jones. 



POTATO CHOCOLATES 

I large baked Irish potato (scoop out of peeling and while 
still hot work in) powdered sugar to make the potato stiff enough 
to mold into size of chocolate creams. Also work in pinch of salt. 
Flavor with 1/2 teaspoon vanilla. Melt bitter chocolate without 
water. Dip first part in chocolate and place on a buttered paper 
until cold.— Mrs. John H. Miller, Carlock, III. 



CONFECTIONEEY Ul 



CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

^ cup warm water i/^ teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups white sugar 14 teaspoon strawberry juice 

5 oz. chocolate 

Put sugar and water in a granite sauce pan, place over a 
slow fire, stir until sugar is dissolved, then let boil without stirring 
for 10 minutes. Drop with spoon into cold water. If it forms a 
soft ball is cooked enough. Remove instantly, set in cool place. 
Cool several minutes, pour into bowl and stir with a large spoon 
until thick and white. Add vanilla and strawberry juice gradu- 
ally. Remove spoon and work with hands until soft and smooth. 
Shape into balls and place on waxed paper. Shave chocolate 
into a small bowl, set in pan of water until melted, drop in 
ball of creamed mixture, turn and remove with fork. Place 
carefully on buttered plate overnight. 

— Mrs. E. A. Kinsinger. 

STEAMED DATES 

Separate the dates and wash them, then put in steamer and 
steam for half or three quarters of an hour. Let them get cold 
before serving. They are much nicer when steamed than when 
served as they are taken from the market. 

— Mrs. E. C. Hiiishaw. 

STUFFED DATES AND PRUNES 

Seed dates carefully so as not to crush, grind nuts very fine, 
stuff dates until entirely full and roll in powdered sugar. 

Wash dry and stone fruit, fill with a marshmallow, raisins 
or chopped nuts and roll in powdered sugar. 

— Miss Neva M. Lamb din. 

POP CORN BALLS 

1 cup granulated sugar Vz cup sweet or boiled cider 

When cider has moistened sugar, stir until it is all dissolved. 
Add 1/^ cup water and boil without stirring until it spins a thread. 
Have pop corn ready in a large pan. Pour over the syrup which 
has previously been flavored with any desired flavoring. Form 
into balls and serve at once. 

— A Friend of the Home Bureau. 

POP CORN BALLS 

(Very Good) 
2 cups brown sugar 1 tablespoon vinegar and a 

1 cup molasses little water 

Butter size of walnut 

Cook until it hardens in water. Pour over half dish pan of 
pop corn. Stir well. When partly cooled make in balls with 
buttered hands. — Miss Fern McClure. 



142 CONFECTIONEEY 



DIVINITY 

1 cup sugar 1 cup white corn syrup 

V2 cup water Water to moisten and boil 

Boil until it hairs to hard ball stage in water 

2 cups sugar 

Beat 2 egg whites. Stir in first part. Then add second part 
and nuts, cherries and figs to taste. 

—Mrs. T. W. Slupiaiiek, Greenville, III. 

DIVINITY 

% cup hot water Whites of 2 eggs 

% cup Red Label Karo syrup 1 cup English walnut meats 

2 cups granulated sugar 

Boil together the water, Karo syrup and sugar until it forms 
a hard mass in cold water. Beat whites of eggs very stiff and 
beat in walnut meats. Beat into this i/^ the syrup, allowing the 
remainder to boil. Beat in the rest of the syrup and when the 
entire mixture will stand alone drop from teaspoon onto but- 
tered plate. — Miss Florence Robinson, 

DIVINE DIVINITY 

3 cups sugar ^ cup water 
1 cup Karo syrup 

Boil until it will form a soft ball in water. Then stand aside 
while boiling second part. 

Second Part 
Boil together % cup sugar, I/4 cup water, until it threads. 
Pour very slowly over the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs. Then 
add first part, beating hard and continuously. Lastly, add a 
cup of nut meats and put on greased platter. 

— Mrs. Frank Freitag, Mackinaw, III. 

PEANUT CRISP 

Place 3 pounds of glucose (or II/2 teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar) and 1 quart of water in kettle, and place over fire. Add 
6 pounds granulated sugar, dissolve sugar slowly, cook to 240 
degrees (if thermometer is used), if not, cook to soft ball. 

Then add 3 pounds raw peanut meats. Stir batch until bright 
golden color appears, then add one teaspoonful powdered Borax 
dissolved in a little water. Now remove from fire and add 2 
level teaspoonfuls of dry soda, stir until soda is thoroughly mixed 
and the batch commences to foam up. Pour on warm marble 
slab (or warm pans) and spread thin with palate knife. Watch 
batch closely and as it cools cut in two and flop it over and 
stretch out thin with hands. When cold it is ready. (The borax 
prevents from drawing dampness in warm weather, and can be 
left out of the batch if you do not want to keep the candy for 
several days).— Mrs. O. H. Lambdin. 



CONFECTIONEEY 143 



PEANUT BRITTLE 

2 cups white sugar V2 cup water 

1 cup white Karo syrup 

Cook until it threads, add 1 teaspoon butter and 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Stir until light brown. Add 2 cups halved peanuts. 
Take from stove, add 2 teaspoons soda and pour into buttered 
pan immediately, using a large pan and spreading mixture out 
well while pouring so candy will be thin. Break into odd pieces. 

— Mrs. J. Luther Ayers. 



PEANUT CANDY 

1 pound white corn syrup 1 pint water 

3 lbs. sugar 

Stir all together and cook until it begins to turn brown. Keep 
stirring and add 2 pounds of Spanish peanuts. Pour into a 
greased pan. — Mrs. John Wilson. 



CARAMELS 

2 cups sugar 1 cup cream 

% cups glucose V2 cup pecans 

V2 cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Place all ingredients in a pan and boil until it forms a solid 
ball when placed in cold water. Then add the nuts. 

— Mrs. Homer Barclay. 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

1 cup chocolate shaved fine 1 cup cream 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup white sugar 

Stir until dissolved, but do not stir after it begins to boil. Boil 
until brittle stage is reached, but not too hard. Pour on greased 
plates and when nearly cool mark into squares. 

— Mrs. Walter Nafziger. 



CHOICE KARO CARAMELS 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 cup butter 

1% cups Karo 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups cream 1 cup chopped nuts 

Cook sugar, Karo and i/^ the cream and butter together. 
When it boils stir in the rest of the cream, but do not allow the 
boiling to cease. Test for a firm ball in cold water, add vanilla 
and nut meats. Turn into buttered tins. When nearly cold cut 
in cubes and wrap in waxed paper. The boiling sometimes re- 
quires nearly an hour. 

— Mrs. Hubert L. Kilby, Jefferson City, Mo. 



144 CONFECTIONEBY 



PEANUT FUDGE 

2 pints light brown sugar Add cream and milk to 

moisten well 

Boil to the soft ball stage in water. Beat, and just before 
pouring into buttered pan add 1/2 cup halved peanuts. Mark 
into squares or fancy shapes. — Mrs. W. H. Ayres. 



MARSHMALLOW NUT FUDGE 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 

2 tablespoons cocoa 1 cup finely cut nuts 

1 cup sweet milk 20 marshmallows or 

Butter size of walnut 2 tablespoons of Hipolite 

Mix sugar and cocoa, add milk, beat up well. Boil until it 
forms a soft ball in water. Take from fire and add marsh- 
mallows, butter and vanilla. Beat till marshmallows melt, stir 
in nuts and pour in buttered pan to cool. 

—Mrs. John Radcliff. 



FUDGE CANDY 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 tablespoon flour 

% cup sweet milk 1 tablespoon butter 

2 tablespoons Karo syrup 2 tablespoons cocoa 

Mix sugar, flour and cocoa dry, add milk and butter, set on 
stove and stir until mixture boils, and let boil until soft ball stage 
in water. Take from stove, beat until cool, and add 1 cup of nut 
meats. — Miss Helen Bush. 



FUDGE 

2% cups sugar Pinch of salt 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons Karo 

Boil until it forms a soft ball in water. Remove from fire 
and add V2 cup grated chocolate and butter size of a walnut. Let 
stand until cool and then beat until it is creamy. Pour on plate 
and mark in squares. Nuts may be added if desired. 

— Mrs. Frank Freitag, Mackinaw, III. 



FUDGE 

% cake bitter chocolate V2 pt. milk 

1 qt. granulated sugar % cup butter 

Boil slowly nine minutes. Take from fire, add 1 teaspoon 
vanilla extract and % cup nuts. Beat until it starts to harden, 
pour into buttered pans. — Miss Luella M. Nafziger. 



CONFECTIONEEY 145 



DIVINITY FUDGE 

2 cups white sugar V2 cup cold water 

V2 cup corn syrup 

Boil until brittle in water. Then slowly add to the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs and flavor. Last add % cup chopped walnuts. 

—Mrs. J. W. Yoder. 



DIVINITY FUDGE 
First Part 

3 cups sugar 1 cup any good white syrup 

Boil these ingredients to the hard ball stage or until it will 
click in water against the side of a glass. 

Second Part 
1 cup sugar i/4 cup water 

Do not start until part 1 is partly done. Boil this to the hair 
stage. Then combine these mixtures and pour over the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Add vanilla and 1 cup chopped nuts. Drop 
on waxed paper when cool. 

—Mrs. Arthur Miller, Buffalo, N. D. 



Coffee and Beverages 



COFFEE 



y2 egg white % cup coffee 

3 tablespoons water 1 quart boiling water 

Beat egg white with the 3 tablespoons water and mix with 
the coffee. Put into the coffee pot, add the boiling water. Boil 
hard 7 minutes, add a dash of cold water. Let stand 3 minutes 
and serve with good cream. Makes 4 cups. 

— Mrs. Roy Musselman. 

RECEPTION COCOA 

2 T. cocoa 4 c. milk 

^ cup sugar % c. boiling water 

A few grains salt 

Scald milk. Mix cocoa, sugar and salt, adding enough boil- 
ing water to make a smooth paste. Add remaining water and 
boil five minutes; pour into scalded milk. Beat two minutes, 
using egg-beater. 

CHOCOLATE 

1 1^ sq. unsweetened chocolate 1 c. boiling water 

%, c. sugar 3 c. milk 

Few grains salt 

Scald milk. Melt chocolate in small saucepan placed over 
hot water, add sugar, salt, and gradually boiling water. When 
smooth, place on range and boil five minutes. Add to scalded 
milk, mill. Serve in chocolate cups with whipped cream. One 
and one-half ounces vanilla chocolate may be substituted for 
unsweetened chocolate. Being sweetened, less sugar is required. 
— Miss Clara R. Brian, Bloomingtoii, III. 

ICED TEA 

1 cup best sun dried tea 1 V2 quarts boiling water 

Let steep in tightly covered granite or crockery bowl about 
11/2 or 2 hours. Add ice water to make 5 gallons. Serve with 
cracked ice and slice of lemon. If desired stronger use less ice 
water.— Mrs. W. J. McChire. 

FRUIT PUNCH 

Sweeten juice of eight lemons, add orange to taste. Then 
add 2 quarts of Apollinaris water or White Bock. Place in punch 
bowl, add a large square of ice which may be garnished with a 
bunch of grapes laid on top. 

— Miss Ada V. Willerton, 
318 E. Chestnut St., Bloomington, III. 



COFFEE, TEA AND BEVERAGES 147 

FRUIT PUNCH 

1 pineapple or 1 can grated Juice of 6 oranges 

pineapple 1 pint of strawberries 

3 cups boiling water 3 cups syrup made of (1 pint 

1 cup tea fresh made sugar 4 quarts water) 
Juice of 3 lemons 

Grate pineapple, boil in water 20 minutes, then strain and 
cool; then add rest of fruit juice, set on ice. Let stand 2 or 3 
hours if possible, before serving. — Mrs. J. H. Engel. 

LEMONADES 

By request of the cook book committee the following ten 
lemonades were furnished by Miss Clara R. Brian, McLean 
County Home Advisor. Fruit juices are healthy, appetizing and 
desirable as a hot weather beverage. Fruits undesirable for can- 
ning may often be used in this way. 

Sunset Lemonade. — This is a sharp, cool drink that will be 
relished on a hot day. Two cupfuls of sugar, the juice of four 
lemons and the grated rind of two oranges are boiled with one 
quart of water for five minutes and set aside to cool. The lemon- 
ade is then served in tall glasses, with cracked ice and half 
slices of orange, and a candied cherry floating on top of each 
glass. 

Lemon Frost. — Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over three 
teaspoonfuls of sugar, and add cracked ice and water to fill the 
glass. Beat the white of one egg until stiff and light, and "frost" 
the top of each glass with a heaping spoonful slightly sweetened 
and flavored with lemon juice. 

Shadow Lemonade. — Wash and sugar fresh blackberries, 
allowing them to set a little while to draw out the juice. Press 
through a bag carefully so the juice is clear. Half fill each glass 
with the blackberry juice; add the juice of half a lemon, and ice 
to fill the glass. It is best not to serve this drink too sweet. It 
is much better tart. 

Strawberry Shrub. — Pick over, wash and sugar one quart of 
ripe strawberries. Over them squeeze the juice of two lemons, 
and allow them to stand. Half fill the glasses with ice, crush the 
berries, and fill up the glasses with the crushed fruit and juice. 
Serve this with several whole berries unstemmed on the serving 
plate accompanied by little sweet wafers or sponge cake. 

Spiced Lemonade. — Make a lemon sirup as follows : Squeeze 
the juice from four lemons and chip the rind from one. Add one 
cupful of sugar, IVo cupfuls of water, three whole cloves and 
half a teaspoonful of cinnamon. Cook until the sugar is well 
dissolved and the spices mixed, adding more water if necessary 
to keep the sirup thin. Cool and use one-quarter of a glassful 
for each one, filling the glasses with very fine chopped ice. 



148 COFFEE, TEA AND BEVEBAGES 

Mint Ice. — Squeeze the juice of one lemon over a handful 
of mint leaves in the bottom of a tall glass. Crush well; add 
four teaspoonf uls of sugar and sufficient ice and water to fill the 
glass. 

Lemon Crystal. — To two teaspoonfuls of sugar add the 
juice of half a lemon and two tablespoonfuls of pineapple juice. 
Fill up the glass with cracked ice. Over the top of each glass 
grate crystallized ginger and serve a generous piece on the edge 
of the glass itself. 

Raspberry Lemonade. — To two tablespoonfuls of raspberry 
juice— either of the fresh fruit or canned — add the juice of one 
lemon, two teaspoonfuls of sugar and shaved ice to fill up the 
glass. A most refreshing drink. 

Apple Lemonade, — Cook until tender, diced apples, including 
the skin and core, in enough water to cover. Strain through a 
jelly bag, add a cupful of sugar to each cupful of juice, bring 
to a boil; then cool. For each glassful of apple lemonade use 
half a cupful of the apple sirup, the juice of half a lemon, and 
water and ice to fill the glass. Serve with candied cherry floating 
on top. 

Pink of Perfection. — Cook together one cupful of sugar and 
one quart of currants until the berries are soft. Add one cupful 
of water to the juice, and cool. Into each glass squeeze half a 
lemon, and add half a cupful of cool juice. Ice, and serve with 
very thin sweet cracker. 



Miscellaneous 



HOW TO PRESERVE EGGS 

To each pail of water add 2 pints of fresh slacked lime and 
1 pint of salt. Mix well. Boil, let settle, drain off liquid. — Put in 
stone jar and set in cool place. Put in fresh eggs after they are 
cold. — Mrs. L. Lathhury. 



LYE SOAP 

3 boxes Lewis Lye 12 lbs. soap grease 

3 gallons rain water 

Boil 2% hours and then add 2 or 3 buckets of water, a little 
salt. Boil until it runs from paddle like honey. Pour into mould 
and cut into squares. — Mrs. Chas. Struhhar. 



LYE SOAP 

36 quarts of water 16 pounds cracklings or scraps 

4 boxes lye 

Take 18 quarts of water, the lye, cracklings or scraps. Mix 
and let stand over night. Next morning add 18 quarts more of 
water and cook. — Mrs. F. E. Risser. 



SOAP 

2 tomato cans grease 1 cup ammonia 

1 can Lewis lye 2 tablespoons borax 

1 quart cold water Another i/4 cup hot water 

Dissolve the lye in the quart of water, set aside until it tests 
same with thermometer as same temperature as the grease which 
has been warmed on stove and removed, then stir lye water and 
grease together. Add at once the ammonia and borax dissolved 
in the hot water. Stir until thick as honey. Pour into cloth lined 
mold, let harden and cut out. — Mrs. Henry Knapple. 



COMPLIMENT TO DANVERS BUSINESS PEOPLE 
FOR ADVANCE ORDERS 

First National Bank. 
Farmers State Bank. 

A. H. Otto — Undertaker. 
Knapple Garage. 

Unimel and Nafziger Garage. 
Dr. E. M. Minnick. 

B. H. Hempstead — Confectionery. 
Musselman Confectionery. 

G. B. Dunlap — Veterinary. 

Levi Johnston and Son — Grain. 

Danvcrs Farmers Elevator Co. 

A. P. Tyrner— Grist Mill. 

0. H. Lambdin — General Insurance. 

J. F. Lambdin — Life, Accident and Automobile Insurance. 

John Mohr — Shoe Repair Shop. 

O. Sebastian — Department Store. 

Imhoff and Kohler — Department Store. 

Habecker and Kime — Lumber and Supplies. 

J. M. Bush — Tonsorial Parlor. 

Roy Musselman — Tonsorial Parlor. 

George Curry — General Draying. 

E. N. Hedrick — Meat Market. 

Danvers Cash Meat Market (C. C. Lemke & Son). 



Invalid Cookery Section 

LIQUID DIET 



CHICKEN JELLY 

Cook a chicken in enough water to little more than cover it. 
Let it stew gently until meat drops from bones and the broth is 
reduced to about a pint. Season to taste with a little pepper and 
salt. Strain and press first through a colander, then through a 
coarse cloth, set it over the fire again and cook a few minutes 
longer. Turn in dish and set on ice to harden. Slice and eat 
cold with thin slices of buttered bread or without bread. 

—Mrs. L. S. Burdette. 



ALBUMENIZED MILK 

Albumen of 1 egg Vie teaspoon salt (if desired) 

Vz cup cold milk 2 tablespoons crushed ice 

Strain albumen through gauze or cheese cloth to dissolve 
tenacity. Add ice, milk and salt. Beat slightly. 



LEMON ALBUMEN 

2 tablespoons lemon juice % cup cold water 

Albumen of 1 egg Crushed ice 

1 tablespoon sugar 

Strain albumen. Dissolve sugar in small amount of hot 
water. Add lemon juice and ice. Orange juice may be added. 



EGG NOG 

1 egg 2 teaspoons sugar 

% cup milk 1 tablespoon whiskey 

Vie teaspoon salt 

Beat egg until fairly stiff but not dry. Add sugar, salt and 
very slowly add the whiskey. Beat well, add milk. Nutmeg 
may be grated over top. Egg with milk may be made the same 
way, using vanilla and lemon equal portions instead of whiskey. 

.BUTTERMILK SUBSTITUTE 

2 pints milk 1 lactone tablet 

1 pint water 

Dissolve lactone tablet in small amount of water. Combine 
milk and water and add dissolved tablet. Let stand in warm 
place until milk begins to sour, then set in ice box. The milk 
will be ready for use in about four hours. Clabbered milk beaten 
light with Dover egg beater is a very good substitute. Serve 
cold. — Mrs. Harry Hinshaw. 



154 INVALID COOEEEY 



ALBUMENIZED MILK 

1 egg white V2 cup milk 

% cup lime water 

Place all ingredients in covered glass jar. Shake and mix 
well. Strain. Serve cold. This may be sweetened and flavored 
with nutmeg if desired. 

ALBUMENIZED ORANGE JUICE 

1 egg white 1 T. sugar 

1 orange, juice 

Method same as for Albumenized milk. 



ALBUMENIZED LEMON JUICE 

1 egg white 1 T. sugar 

1 lemon, juice 

Method same as others. 



LEMON WHEY 

V2 cup hot milk 2 t. sugar 

3 T. lemon juice 

Pour lemon juice into hot milk. Cook over hot water 5 
minutes or until curd separates from whey. Strain through 
cheese cloth. Add sugar. Serve hot or cold. 

JUNKET 

Vz c. milk Cinnamon or nutmeg 

1 t. sugar V2 junket tablet dissolved in 

5 drops vanilla 1 t. lukewarm water 

Heat milk to body temperature, add sugar and flavorings, 
lastly dissolved junket tablet. Pour into molds and let stand 
quietly until firm. 

HOT EGG NOG 

1 egg yolk V2 c. hot milk 

2 t. sugar Nutmeg or 1 T. brandy 

Beat egg yolk, add sugar, add hot milk. Strain and flavor. 



COLD EGG NOG 

1 egg 1 c milk 

1 T. sugar Nutmeg or 1 T brandy 

Beat egg, add sugar, stir until dissolved. Add milk and 
flavoring. Serve very cold. Made attractive by separating egg, 
beat white stiff", and add just before serving. 



INVALID COOKEBY 155 



EGG BROTH 

1 egg 1 c. hot milk 

% t. sugar Salt 

Beat egg, add sugar, and salt. Pour hot milk over them. 
Strain. Serve immediately. (Hot water, broth, clear soup, or tea 
may be used instead of milk.) 

CHOCOLATE MALTED MILK 

1 T. malted milk 1 egg 

1 t. cocoa Cream 

1 T. sugar 

Mix sugar, cocoa, malted milk. Add to beaten egg. Pour 
into glass and fill glass with cream. 

CRANBERRY GRUEL 

1 T. flour % t. salt 

114 cups milk 1 T. sugar 

% cup cranberries 

Smooth flour with Y^ cup cold milk. Stir into one cup scalded 
milk. Cook directly over heat 15 minutes or over hot water 20 
minutes. Add cranberries. Cook until soft. Add sugar and 
salt. Press through strainer and serve hot. 

BOSTON CRACKER GRUEL 

3 T. powdered crackers V2 c. hot milk 

1/^ c. boiling water ^/4 t. salt 

Brown slightly and powder one cracker. Add 3 T to hot 
water and milk. Cook 10 minutes. Add salt. Serve. Soda or 
graham crackers may be used. 

GLUTEN GRUEL 

1/2 c. boiling water % c gluten flour 

1/2 t. salt V2 c. milk 

Rub salt and gluten flour smooth with 14 cup cold milk. Add 
mixture to boiling water and remainder of milk. Cook directly 
over flame 15 minutes. Cook 30 minutes longer over boiling 
water. 



OATMEAL GRUEL 

1 c. boiling water % t. salt 

2 T. oatmeal 

Pour oatmeal into boiling salted water. Cook directly over 
flame 15 minutes. Stir constantly. Boil over water 1 hour. Strain 
and serve. 



156 INVALID COOKEBY 



SOFT COOKED EGGS 

Put the eggs in boiling water sufficient to cover, remove from 
fire, cover, and allow them to stand from 5 to 8 minutes. 



POACHED EGGS 

Break each egg into a saucer carefully, slip the egg into boil- 
ing water, decrease heat, and cook until white is firm. Take up 
with a skimmer, drain, trim off rough edges and serve on slices 
of toast. Season. 

Poached eggs are attractive covered with white sauce to 
which chopped parsley has been added. 

CREAMED EGGS 

3 hard cooked eggs 1 c. white sauce 

4 slices toast 

Prepare white sauce and hard cooked egg whites cut in 
halves, slices or chopped, and when hot serve on toast. Garnish 
with yolks run through sieve or ricer. Season with salt and 
pepper. 

There are many more recipes that may be used in invalid 
cookery, especially in the preparation of eggs, for variety counts 
in the sick room and care must be taken that the same dish is not 
served so often that the patient will finally refuse all food, if the 
illness is a long one. I hope those I have submitted will prove 
satisfactory. 

Above sixteen recipes were received through the kindness of 
the Brokaw Hospital and Miss Alice M. Rentchler, Dietitian. 



Convalescent Cookery 



POTATO BAKED 



Remove ends of potato before baking. Bake till tender about 
1 hour, when tender break open immediately to let steam escape. 

STUFFED BAKED 

Cut baked potato in half on its long diameter, scoop out 
center. Season with salt and pepper, butter and milk. Mash 
lightly and return to potato shell. Reheat in oven and brown a 
little. Also can stuff potatoes with cheese or peppers. Grated 
cheese or sweet peppers. Cut very fine, add to potato before put- 
ting in shells. 

P. S. — Very healthy as creates appetite. 

RED BEEF SANDWICHES 

Scrape raw beef very fine. Season with salt and pepper. 
Spread on thin slices of bread, removing crusts. Put slices to- 
gether. Cut into squares or triangles. Toast slightly, done 
quickly so that meat will not be overcooked. Interior remain red. 

WHOLE TOMATO STUFFED WITH RICE 

1 medium sized tomato 1 tablespoon butter 

2 tablespoons rice (uncooked) Dash of pepper and salt 

Remove center from tomato, dust inside with salt, little 
pepper and set aside. Boil rice; when about done add tomato 
pulp. Cook 10 minutes longer. Drain the water from rice, add 
Ijutter, salt and very little pepper. Fill centers of tomatoes. Can 
be put in a greased paper and baked in moderate oven for 20 
minutes. 

SCRAPED BEEF BALLS 

1 slice round steak Salt 

With dull edge of knife or teaspoon, scrape meat across grain 
at open end of fibre. Do not cut connection tissue, add salt. 
Shape into small flat cakes. Grease skillet slightly. Broil suffi- 
ciently so that outer portion is brown, but interior of cake is 
rare. Garnish with parsley. May be served with squares of 
toast, 

PUFFY OMELET 

% tablespoon flour % cup milk 

% teaspoon salt and pepper 1 egg 

2 teaspoons Oleo or butter Cook as any omelet 

For jelly omelet add sugar and place jelly on it just before 
turning. 



CONVALESCENT 159 



No. 2 

Beat yolk until light, add milk, salt and pepper. Beat white 
until stiff and dry, turn the yolk over the beaten white and cut 
and fold together. Have pan hot and buttered, turn in the mix- 
ture, spread evenly in pan, allow to stand about 2 minutes on top 
of stove, moderate heat. Remove pan. Can bake in moderate 
oven. Cook until knife inserted in center comes out clean. Re- 
move, cut into and turn on hot platter. 

BROWN BETTY 

2 slices bread 1 tablespoon butter 

1 large tart apple (or i/^ cup Vz teaspoon nutmeg or cinna- 
berries) mon 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Toast bread and break into small pieces, line the bottom of 
baking dish with toast bits. Cover with layer of apple or berries. 
Sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg or cinnamon, add butter in bits 
on this. Continue the process until the dish is filled, place but- 
ter on top. Put dish in slow oven and bake 20 minutes and serve 
with whipped cream or some dressing filling. 

HARD SAUCE FILLING 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons sugar 

V2 egg white may be added if Add % teaspoon vanilla or 

desired nutmeg 

Cream butter and sugar together until there are no lumps or 
grains in mixture. Beat egg white stiff and put into rest. Flavor. 

PRUNE PUFF 

4 stewed prunes 1 egg white 

Cut into pieces 

Beat white until stiff, but not dry, 2 tablespoons sugar. % 
teaspoon lemon juice, % teaspoon salt. Cut and fold in the 
prunes mixed with C. sugar and flavoring. Place in buttered cup. 
Bake in mild oven until firm. 

CORN STARCH BLANC MANGE 

1 tablespoon corn starch % teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 cup milk 

Heat milk in double boiler over hot water. Stir cornstarch, 
sugar and salt together. Pour a little of the hot milk over the 
mixture, add all to the milk. Cook 40 to 60 minutes. Flavor with 
1/4 teaspoon lemon or vanilla. 

Chocolate Filling or Dressing 

Add 1 tablespoon grated chocolate to cornstarch and sugar, 
while mixinsf. Cook as above. 



160 CONVALESCENT 



Orange Dressing 
Flavor with orange juice and pour over section of orange. 

Caramel Dressing 

Individual: Family of 4: 

1 Vz tablespoons sugar % cup 

y-i tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons 

Vie teaspoon salt % teaspoon 

1 teaspoon butter 1 tablespoon 

1/4 cup milk 1 cup milk 

Few drops vanilla Vz teaspoon vanilla 

May be added while cooking or poured over as a dressing. 

Melt butter, add sugar, flour, and salt. Stir and cook till 
brown, add milk and set over hot water, stirring until smooth. 
Remove and add vanilla. Serve hot or cold over puddings. 

— Kindness of Miss Pearl Guth, Washington, III., and Misses 
Luella Engel, Clara Ummel and Lula Salzman, Danvers, III., 
Nurses at the Mennonite Sanitarium. 



INDEX 



Pago 
A 

Abo Lincoln Pudding 126 

Aii-y Kisses 138 

Amber Pie 102 

Angel Food 68 

Angel Parfait 121 

Angel Food Date Pudding 129 

Anise Cookies or Springerlie 89 

Another Liquid Starter Bread 43 

Apple Pudding 128 

Apple Salad 20 

Apple Sauce 71 

Apple and Orange Salad 119 

Apricot Sherbet 122 

B 

Bread — ■ 

Brown 49 

Brown Boston 49 

Brown Steamed 49 

Chocolate 48 

Corn 49 

Corn 50 

Crackling Corn 50 

Fleischmann's Yeast 40 

Graham 41 

Home Made Yeast 40 

Liquid Starter 42 

Liquid Starter 43 

Made with Milk 40 

Nut 48 

Orange 48 

Salt Rising 41 

White 41 

World's Fair Yeast 42 

Yeast Foam 42 

Yeast Foam (with Potatoes) 41 

Baked Potato 31 

Baked Sweet Potato 31 

Baking Powder Biscuits 52 

Banana Pie 101 

Banana Pudding 125 

Banana Salad 118 

Bean Salad 20 

Bean Salad 21 

Beef Loaf 10 

Beet Pickles 26 

Beet Slaw 26 

Beverages and Coflfee 146 

Blanc Mange 114 

Boston Baked Beans 33 

Boston Brown Bread 49 

Bread Made with Milk 40 

Bread Sponge Doughnuts 97 

Breaded Chops 7 

Breakfast Cakes 56 

Brownies 84 

Brown Bread 49 

Brown Cookies 92 

Brown Stone Front Cake 65 

Brown Sugar Cookies 92 

Brown Sugar Caramel Candy 139 

Buns 54 

Burnt Sugar Cake 74 

Buttermilk Cake 69 

Butterscotch Candy 138 

Butterscotch Cookies 88 

Butter Scotch Pie 107 

Butter Scotch Pie 108 

C 

Cake — 

Angel Food 68 

Angel Food, Mock 67 

Angel Food, Three Egg 68 

Apple Sauce 71 

Brown Stone Front 65 

Burnt Sugar 74 

Butterless, Milkless, Eggless 79 



Page 

Buttermilk 69 

Checkerboard 66 

Chocolate 76 

Chocolate 77 

Chocolate, Everyday 76 

Cocoanut 63 

Cream 63 

Cup, Quick 66 

Cup, Small White 66 

Cup, Yellow 67 

Dark 76 

Delicate 62 

Devil's Food 77 

Devil's Food 78 

Eagle 73 

Eggless 68 

Eggless 69 

French Cream 63 

Fruit 79 

Fruit 80 

Fruit, Coffee 80 

Fruit, White 79 

Jam 64 

Jelly Roll 67 

Lady Baltimore 72 

Lemon Filling 62 

Maple 64 

Marble 65 

Never-Fail 63 

Nut 71 

Nut, Spanish 71 

Potato 6t) 

Popular White 62 

Pork, (Large) 63 

Raisin 64 

Roll 67 

Silver 73 

Spice 75 

Spice, Eggless 74 

Spice, White 74 

Sponge 67 

Sunshine 62 

The Most Popular Cake in America .... 66 

Walnut 64 

Watermelon 65 

White 72 

White 73 

WTiite Lady 73 

White Layer 72 

Candy 140 

Canned Corn 135 

Canning Corn 135 

Caramel- 
Custard 124 

Icing 60 

Pie 104 

Cherry — ■ 

Pudding 127 

Salad 119 

Tapioca Pudding 127 

Carrot Pudding 126 

Casserole Lunch 31 

Chicken — 

a la King 12 

Dressing 13 

Pie 12 

Salad 21 

Tamalae 12 

Checkerboard Cake 66 

Cheese Loaf 36 

Chili Sauce 25 

Choice Karo Caramels 143 

Chocolate — 

Bread 48 

Cake 76 

Cake 77 



162 



INDEX 



Page 

Caramels 143 

Creams 141 

Drop Cookies 90 

Nut Cookies 90 

Pie 105 

Pudding 130 

Christmas — 

Cookies 88 

Pudding 130 

Cinnamon — • 

Roll Candy 139 

Rolls 46 

Sticks 57 

Toast 57 

Coffee- 
Cake 45 

Cake Rolls 45 

Cake 46 

Fruit Cake 50 

Corn — 

Bread 49 

Bread 50 

Flake Cookies 88 

Corn Meal Muffins 55 

Crackling Corn Bread 50 

Corn — 

Fritters 30 

Relish 23 

Relish or Salad 24 

Chow Chow 24 

Cold Catsup 24 

Cooked Catsup 24 

Cottage Cheese Pie 102 

Corn Pudding 126 

Cocoanut — ■ 

Cake 63 

Candy 138 

Cocoanut Pie 104 

Cookies 88 

Dainties 84 

Kisses 114 

Macaroon Cookies 86 

Pie 106 

Creamed — 

Carrots 30 

Eggs 36 

Onions 30 

Potatoes 30 

Cream of Tomato Soup 5 

Cream Biscuits 52 

Cream — - 

Cake 63 

Candy 139 

Cookies 89 

Pie 101 

Puffs 84 

Raisin Pie 106 

Raisin Pie 107 

Taffy 139 

Cocoa Cakes 85 

Combination Salad 21 

Conversation Mush 57 

Cooked Salad Dressing 16 

Cooked Salad Dressing 17 

Custard — 

Pie 104 

Pudding 125 

Coffee and Beverages 146 

Convalescent Cookery 158 

Cranberry Tarts 118 

Creamed Apple Pie 102 

Cucumber Pickles 27 

Cup Cake (Yellow) 67 

Cookies — 

Anise or Springerlie 89 

Brown 92 

Brown Sugar 92 

Butter Scotch 88 



Page 

Chocolate Drop 90 

Christmas 88 

Cocoanut 88 

Cocoanut Macaroon 86 

Corn Flakes 88 

Cream 89 

Delicious Drop 91 

Eggloss Ginger 94 

English Coffee 88 

English Drop 91 

Fruit 89 

Ginger 94 

Ginger 95 

Ginger, Drop 91 

Ginger, Eggless 94 

Molasses 93 

Nut 90 

Oatmeal 95 

Oatmeal . . 94 

Sugar 89 

Sugar 90 

Sugar Pilled 90 

Confectionery — 

Airy Kisses 138 

Brown Sugar Caramel Candy 139 

Butter Scotch Candy 138 

Candy 140 

Caramels 143 

Chocolate Caramels 143 

Chocolate Creams 141 

Choice Karo Caramels 143 

Cinnamon Roll Candy 139 

Cocoanut Candy 138 

Cream Candy 139 

Cream Taffy 139 

Divinity 142 

Divine Divinity 142 

French Nougat 138 

Fudge Candy 144 

Fudge 144 

Ice Cream Candy 140 

Marshmallow Nut Fudge 144 

Nut Candy 139 

Peanut Brittle 143 

Peanut Candy 143 

Peanut Crisp 142 

Peanut Fudge 144 

Pop Corn Balls 141 

Potato Chocolate 140 

Sea Foam Candy 140 

Steamed Dates 141 

Stuffed Dates and Prunes 141 

White Fondant 138 

D 

Dark Cake 76 

Date Sandwiches 38 

Date Bars 84 

Date Sticks 85 

Date and Nut Pudding 128 

Date Pudding 128 

Delicate Cake 62 

Delicious Drop Cookies 91 

Devil's Food 77 

Devil's Pood 78 

Deviled Eggs 35 

Divine Susan Drop Cakes 90 

Divine Divinity 142 

Divinity 142 

Divinity Fudge 145 

Doughnuts 98 

Doughnuts 99 

Dream Sandwiches 37 

Drop Ginger Cookies 91 

Dumplings 13 

Duchess Cream 116 

E 

Egg Dumplings 14 

Egg Goldenrod 35 

Egg in Nest 35 

Eggless Dumjilings 14 



INDEX 



163 



Page 

E»gle Cake 73 

Eggless Cake 68 

Eggless Cake 69 

Eggless Spice Cake 74 

Eggless, Milkless, Butterless Cake 79 

Egg Custard Pie 105 

English Coffee Cookies 88 

English Drop Cookies 91 

Escalloped Egg Plant 31 

Escalloped Kice 33 

Every Day Chocolate Cake 76 

Excellent Salad 115 

F 

Fig Filling 59 

Fleisohmann's Yeast Bread 40 

French Cream Cake 63 

French Ice Cream 121 

French Nougat 138 

Fresh Fruit Dainty 114 

Fried Oysters 7 

Fried Cucumbers 30 

Frosting 59 

Fruit^ 

and Marshmallow Salad 118 

Cake 79 

Cake 80 

Cookies 89 

Dressing 118 

Puflfs 102 

Salad Dressing 118 

Salad Pie 101 

Salad 119 

Fudge 144 

Fudge Candy 144 

Fudge Filling 59 

G 

Green Bean Salad 21 

Green Tomato Pickle 28 

Graham — 

Bread 41 

Gems 56 

Muffins 55 

Ginger — 

Balls 86 

Bread 82 

Cookies 94 

Cookies 95 

Cookies (Eggless) 94 

Gem Cakes 91 

Grape Nut Salad 119 

Green Tomato Mince Meat 110 

H 

Ham Fritters 7 

Hasty Pudding 126 

Heavenly Hash 115 

Heinz Baked Beans 33 

Home Made Yeast Bread 40 

"Hurry Up" Coffee Cake 45 

I 

Ice Cream 121 

Ice Cream Candv 140 

Indian Relish 23 

Invalid Cookery 153 

J 

Jam Cake 64 

Jelly Roll 67 

L 

Lady Baltimore Cake 72 

Left Over Ham 8 

Left Over Meals 8 

Left Over Cake Pudding 125 

Lemon Filling Cake 62 

Lemon Raisin 103 

Lemon Pie 108 

Lemon Pie Filling 110 



Page 

Light Bread Pudding 125 

Light Rolls 62 

Light Rolls Fleischmanns 52 

Liquid Starter Bread 42 

Liquid Starter Bread 43 

Little Yeast Biscuit 53 

M 

Macaroni and Tomatoes 32 

Manhattan Salad 20 

Maple Cake 64 

Marble Cake 65 

Marmalade 132 

Marshmallow and Pecan Sandwiches.... 37 

Marshmallow Filling 60 

Marshmallow Icing 60 

Marshmallow Pudding 115 

Marshmallow Cream 117 

Marshmallow Nut Fudge 144 

Mayonnaise Dressing 17 

Meat Croquettes 8 

Meat Loaf ^ 9 

Milk Sherbet 122 

Mince Meat 110 

Miscellaneous 150 

Mixed Pickle 27 

Mixed Mustard Pickle 28 

Mock Angel Food 67 

Molded Salmon Salad 21 

Molasses Cookies 93 

Muffins 55 

Muskmelon Pickle 27 

N 

Never Fail Cake 63 

Noodles 13 

Nut Loaf 12 

Nut Bread 48 

Nut Caramel Icing 59 

Nut- 
Cake 71 

Candy 139 

Cookies 90 

Cream 116 



Oat Meal Cookies 93 

Oat Meal Cookies 94 

Orange Bread 48 

Orange Pie 106 

Orange Marmalade 132 

Oyster Soup 5 

Oysters Coddled in Bamequin 7 

P 

Pancake Flour 55 

Peanut Butter 37 

Pear Honey 132 

Perfection Salad I9 

Pimento and Cheese 37 

Pineapple Filling 60 

Pineapple Filling 61 

Plain Icing 59 

Plum Pudding 129 

Pop Corn Balls 141 

Popular White Cake 62 

Pork Cake 63 

Potato Cake 65 

Potato Chocolates 140 

Potato Doughnuts 97 

Potato Dumplings 13 

Potato Salad -jn 

Pressed Chicken 13 

Pineapple — 

Bavarian Cream 116 

Custard Pie 102 

Pie 105 

Pie 106 

Salad 120 

Sauce 115 

Sherbet 122 



164 



INDEX 



Page 

Prune Souffle 127 

Prune Whip 127 

Pumpkin Pie 106 

Peanut — 

Brittle 143 

Candy 143 

Crisp 142 

Fudge 144 

Q 

Quick Cake 66 

R 

Raisin Cake 64 

Raisin Custard Pie 104 

Raised Doughnuts 97 

Raspberry Whipped Cream 103 

Ripe Tomato Relish 23 

Roll Cake 67 

Rusks 55 

S 
Salad — 

Dressing 15 

Dressing 16 

(Cooked) 16 

Salmon Croquettes and Puffs 8 

Salmon and Beef Loaf 9 

Salt Rising Bread 40 

Salvation Army Doughnuts 99 

Sandwich Fillings 38 

Scalloped Oysters 32 

Scalloped Oysters and Corn 32 

Scrapple 9 

Sea Foam Icing 60 

Sea Foam Candy 140 

Shirred Eggs 35 

Short Cake 112 

Silver Cake 73 

Sliced Cucumber Pickle 26 

Small White Cup Cake 66 

Smothered Chicken 12 

Snow Balls 115 

Snow Pudding 124 

Soft Ginger Bread 82 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing 15 

Sour Cream Pie 105 

Spanish Buns 54 

Spanish Cream 116 

Spanish Nut Cake 71 

Spanish Rice 32 

Spice Cake 75 

Spiced Canteloupes 26 

Sponge Cake 67 

Spoon Dumplings 14 

Squash Pie 103 

, Steak en Casserole 31 

Steamed Brown Bread 49 

Steamed Dates 141 

Steamed Dates and Prunes 141 

Steamed Pudding 128 

Steamed Sponge Pudding 124 



Steamed Chocolate Pudding 130 

Strawberry Short Cake 112 

Suet Pudding 127 

Sugar Cookies 89 

Sugar Cookies (Filled) 90 

Sugar Cookies 90 

Sunshine Cake 62 

Sweet Cream 52 

Sweet Dill Pickles 26 

Sweet Milk Doughnuts 99 

Sweet Pickles, Peaches and Pears 28 

Sweet Potato Custard Pie 103 

Sweet Potato Salad 19 

Sweet Salad Dressing 15 

Swiss Steak 9 

T 

Tapioca Pie Filling 103 

Tapioca Cream 116 

Tea Cakes 84 

Tea Cakes 85 

Tea Sandwiches 37 

The Most Popular Cake in America .... 66 

Thousand Island Dressing 16 

Three Egg Angel Food 68 

Tomato Mango Pickle 27 

Tomato Mince Meat 110 

Tomato Soup 5 

U 

Uncooked Tomato Relish 23 

V 

Veal Birds 7 

A^egetable Salad 19 

Velvet Salad Dressing 17 

Vinegar Pie 101 

W 

Waffles 56 

Walnut Cake 64 

Waterless Meat 8 

Watermelon Cake 65 

White Fondant 138 

^Vhite — 

Bread 41 

Grape Salad 19 

Sauce 15 

White — 

Cake 72 

Cake 73 

Fruit Cake 80 

Layer Cake 72 

Lady Cake 73 

Spice Cake 74 

Woodford Pudding 125 

Worlds Fair Yeast Bread 42 

Y 

Yeast Foam Bread 41 

Yeast Foam Bread 42 

Yellow Cake Frosting 59 



\J 



^--^-■■ryr\9mm 






^H 


^■B 




^^^^^^^^M 


': ''<i|P' 




SS^^^^H 


^^^^^^^^^^^^1 




LIBRARY OF CONGRE 


HH 


'1 


If !l ! 


"1 ' 




III 1 1! 


III 1 1 1 pDHHipm 






; ■ i " i ■ ■ ; 


^^^ 


.. ■ ^ '' 


1' If 


W: 1 


II 


1 


' \ y--ii''[ 





010 230 466 4 



:i--. . t 



J • !- 






