University of Texas Bulletin 



No. 2123: April 20, 1921 



WHAT TO FEED THE FAMILY 



BY 



JET CORINE WINTERS 

Adjunct Professor of Home Economics 



Department of Home Economics 

and 

Home Economics Division of the Bareao of Extension 




PUBLISHED BY 

THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 

AUSTIN 



Publications of the University of Texas 

Publications Committee: 

Frederic Duncalf C. T. Gray 

KiLLis Campbell E. J. Mathews 

D. B. Casteel C. E. Rowe 

F. W. Graff A. E. Trombly 

The University publishes bulletins six times a month, 
so numbered that the first two digits of the number show 
the year of issue, the last two the position in the yearly 
series. (For example, No. 1701 is the first bulletin of the 
year 1917.) These comprise the official publications of the 
University, publications on humanistic and scientific sub- 
jects, bulletins prepared by the Bureau of Extension, by the 
Bureau of Government Research, and by the Bureau of Eco- 
nomic Geology and Technology, and other bulletins of gen- 
eral educational interest. With the exception of special num- 
bers, Any bulletin will be sent to a citizen of Texas free on 
request. All communications about University publications 
should be addressed to University Publications, University 
of Texas, Austin. 



lT30-8119-7-18-21-20'}0 



University of Texas Bulletin 



No. 2123: April 20, 1921 



WHAT TO FEED THE FAMILY 



BY 



JET CORINE WINTERS 

Adjunct Professor of Home Economics 



Department of Home Economics 

and 

Home Economics Division of the Bureau of Extension 




PUBLISHED BY THE UNIVERSITY SIX TIMES A MONTH. AND ENTERED AS 

SECOND-CLASS MATTER AT THE POSTOFFIGE AT AUSTIN. TEXAS. 

UNDER THE ACT OF ALIGUST 24. 1912 



\M1 



The benefits of education and of 
useful knowledge, generally diffused 
through a community, are essential 
to the preservation of a free govern- 
ment. 

Sam Houston 



Cultivated mind is the guardian 
genius of democracy. ... It is the 
only dictator that freemen acknowl- 
edge and the only security that free- 
men desire. 

Mirabeau B. Lamar 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



T*':'vso 



SEP 281921 

DOCUivJIZNTS DiVialON 



WHAT TO FEED THE FAMILY 



CONTENTS 



Page 

Introduction 3 

The Needs of the Body 4 

Food for the Different Body Needs 7 
Comparison of Food Value of Foods 12 

The Digestive System 19 

Constipation .-.22 

Bacteria in the Digestive Tract 23 

Infant Feeding 24 

Diet of Older Children 27 

Menu Making 30 

The Meal Plan 32 

Suggestions for the Menu 37 

Suiting the Menu to the Children. ...42 



Page 

Food Prejudices 43 

Relation of Weight to Height 44 

Other Signs of Bad Nutrition 48 

Reducing and Fattening Diets 51 

Nutrition Classes 56 

Comparision of Cost of Energy- 
Giving Foods 58 

Comparision of Cost of Protein- 
Giving Foods 60 

Comparision of Cost of Mineral- 
Giving Goods 61 

The Food Budget 63 



WHY THIS BULLETIN? 



A great many women, vitally interested in supplying 
their families with the proper kind of food, complain of 
the dearth of concise, practical, and accurate information 
in this particular field. They do not have time for reading 
entire volumes and puzzling out the meaning of the scien- 
tific terms, and, from the woman's pages in the various 
magazines, they can only gather together a mass of un- 
related, unorganized, and perhaps inaccurate material, 
which they find of little practical use. The literature re- 
lating to this subject is growing more and more puzzling 
with its constant references to those "mysterious some- 
things" that food must contain in order to promote proper 
growth and health. How is it possible to know that the 
rapidly growing bodies of the children are being supplied 
with everything necessary for their best physical develop- 
ment, and that the food for the grown-ups is compatible 
with their digestive powers and sufficient for energy and 
repair demands? 

The following material has been compiled with the busy 
housewife in mind and with the conviction that it is pos- 
sible to present the practical aspects of the science of nu- 
trition in such a way that they can be understood and ap- 
plied by even the busiest of these housewives. 



4 University^ of Texas Bulletin 

THE QUESTIONS OF FOOD 

There are certain questions which present themselves for 
consideration when we begin to inquire into the problem 
of proper food. These seem to succeed each other in logical 
manner, somewhat as follows : 

1. What are the needs of the body which must be met 
by food? 

2. To what extent do the various food materials meet 
these needs, and how may we compare food materials as to 
their actual food value? 

3. What part does the digestive system play? 

4. Why and how should the food for a child differ from 
the food for a grown-up? 

5. What kind of menus will combine food materials in 
such a way as to provide the best nutrition for both children 
and grown-ups? 

6. How are we to judge of the nutritive condition of the 
different members of the family, and what means can be 
taken to remedy former dietetic errors? 

7. What are the most economical food-combinations that 
will provide proper nutrition? 

Let us discuss each of these separately. 

WHAT MUST WE GET FROM OUR FOOD? 

Building Material. The human body is made from the 
food that is furnished it, and whether it is properly made 
or not depends to a great extent on the kind of material 
provided. There are two, perhaps we may say three, kinds 
of material needed. One kind is needed to build the bony 
frame-work of the body and the teeth, hair, and nails; 
another is needed to build the body tissue itself — muscles, 
nerves, internal organs and glands; and, of course, some- 
where we must get material for the fat that is scattered 
through the body, helping support the internal organs, 
rounding out the curves of muscles, or acting as a pad for 
warmth, or to prevent shocks from blows. Besides these, 
there must be material for the blood and lymph and the 



What to Feed the Family 5 

various digestive juices. When we think of the different 
kinds of tissue in the body, we need not be surprised at the 
various kinds of building material needed. Of course there 
is a great difference in the need for building material in the 
adult and the child. The body of the adult is, for better 
or for worse, a finished product. The growth impulse has 
ceased, and the only changes that can be made are the put- 
ting on or taking off of fat or the enlargement of muscles 
through exercise. Except in the case of this enlargement 
of muscle, or in the building up process after a wasting 
disease, or in pregnancy, there is no actual production of 
tissue. So the adult body needs building material only for 
repair, while that of the child must have material for con- 
struction of tissues. The kind and amount of building ma- 
terial is thus more important in childhood than in adult life. 
Energy. Besides depending on our food for building ma- 
terial, we depend on it for energy. The energy for every 
movement that we make, and for the beating of the heart, 
the expansion and contraction of the lungs, the pushing of 
the food through the digestive tract, and the tension of 
muscles is supplied by the food. Food, taken into the di- 
gestive system, is converted by the action of the different 
digestive juices into simpler and simpler substances, and 
these are absorbed, in the small intestine, into the tiny blood 
vessels lining the walls of the intestines, or into the lymph, 
and carried to the various tissues where they are oxidized 
or burned, thus producing heat energy which can be changed 
into muscular energy in much the same way that heat 
energy from coal is changed into the energy for running an 
engine. If not enough food is taken into the system to 
supply all energy needs, the body will burn its own tissue, 
using the fat first, to meet the emergency. If more than 
enough food is supplied, the body changes the surplus fuel 
into fat and stores it in the body as a reserve food supply. 
We can measure exactly the amount of energy that is used 
by an individual during any given length of time by means 
of an instrument called the respiration calorimeter. The 
result is expressed in terms of calories, the calorie being 
used as a unit of measurement for heat energy, in the same 



6 University^ of Texas Bulletin 

way that an inch is used for measuring length, or a pound 
for measuring weight. The calories used must be replaced 
by an amount of food that will give the same number of 
calories when burned in the body. Since we are able also 
to calculate the number of calories in any given amount 
of food, by burning it in a bomb calorimeter, it is a fairly 
easy matter to estimate the average number of calories 
an individual needs per day and the amount of food that 
will provide this. But few housewives have time for such 
calculations, nor are they necessary. As will be explained 
later on, there is a much simpler method of judging whether 
an individual has been getting too few or too many calories, 
which simply means too little or too much food. But we 
shall come back to calories again, when we discuss the dif- 
ferences in the fuel or energy value of different kinds of 
food material. 

There are three factors which determine, in the main, 
the energy requirement of an individual; in other words^ 
three factors which determine the amount of food that a 
person should eat. The most important of these is mus- 
cular activity. The day laborer, doing heavy muscular 
work, will require two or even three times as much food 
in a day as a man who does most of his work sitting at a 
desk. Size is also an important factor, and the energy re- 
quirement increases with the body weight. The third fac- 
tor is age. The voracious appetite of the rapidly growing 
boy or girl has often been remarked. The seemingly huge 
amount of food consumed is really necessary for the rap- 
idly growing body. The energy requirement of the four- 
teen-year old boy is usually greater than that of his father. 

Body Regulating Substances. The third need of the 
body, for which we must look to food, is the need of what 
is often termed ''body regulating substances." This is a 
bit more difficult to explain than the need for building ma- 
terial or energy. If we think of the body as a complicated 
machine, these body regulators might be compared to the 
balance wheels. The neutrality of the blood, the acidity 
or alkalinity of the digestive juices, the regular beating of 



What to Feed the Family 7 

the heart, the response of nerve and muscle to every im- 
pulse, all depend upon the presence of certain mineral ele- 
ments in suitable amounts in the fluids and tissues of the 
body. These elements must be supplied by the food. 

Vitamines. And lastly the vitamines ! We are ignorant 
of the chemical nature and method of action of these sub- 
stances, but we know they exert a profound influence not 
only on growth and development but on the nutritive con- 
dition as a whole. Three of these substances are, at pres- 
ent, recognized. They have been named Water-Soluble B, 
Fat-Soluble A, and Water-Soluble C, or vitamines A, B, 
and C. Certain diseases, called deficiency diseases, are 
known to be caused by a lack of one or the other of these 
substances in the diet. Thus a lack of water-soluble B 
causes beriberi, a lack of fat-soluble A results in an eye 
disease known as xeropthalmia, and a lack of water-soluble 
C gives rise to scurvy. All of the vitamines seem to be 
vitally related to growth, and a diet low in any one of them 
will result in stunted growth, when fed to a young animal. 
They are also known to be affected by heat, Water-Soluble C 
being, in most cases, completely destroyed by exposure to 
high temperature. Alkali, also, helps to destroy them. 

Summing up the answer to our question, we may say 
that the needs of the body which must be met by food are 
four ; the need for building material ; for energy, for regu- 
lating substances, and for vitamines. These needs must be 
kept in mind in attempting to estimate the real food value 
of the various food materials. 

HOW SHALL WE MEASURE THE VALUE OF FOOD 
MATERIALS? 

In considering the value of a food material, we should 
keep the needs of the body in mind and the extent to which 
the particular food meets these needs. For the most part, 
our ordinary food materials can be counted on to meet more 
than one need of the body, but we can classify them roughly 
as follows : 

To meet energy needs — starchy foods, sweet foods, and 



University of Texas Bulletin 




Oatmeal 

Toast 



BREAKFAST 
Orange 
Cream 

Milk 



Butter 



Sugar 




LUNCH 
Macaroni and Cheese 
Fruit Salad 
Whole Wheat Bread 

Cocoa 



Butter 






Baked Potatoes 
Bread 



DINNER 
Hamburg Steak 

Apple Snow- 



Spinach 
Butter 



Three simple easily prepared meals which furnish everything necessary to the 
body. (See page 37.) 



What to Feed the Family 9 

fats. Starchy foods include the starchy vegetables (Irish 
and sweet potatoes), cereals, especially those with the outer 
husks removed, and food materials made from cereals such 
as macaroni, bread, cakes, crackers, etc. Sweet foods in- 
clude sugars, sirups, candies, dried fruit, and sweet des- 
serts. The starchy foods and sweet foods are both classed 
as carbohydrate foods. Fats include butter, cream, salad 
oils, cooking oil, meat fat, and food products containing 
a great deal of fat, such as pastry. We think of carbohy- 
drates and fats chiefly as energy givers. 

To Meet the Need for Building and Repairing Body Tis- 
sue — meat, eggs, milk, cheese, most nuts and legumes (beans 
and peas) . These contain a large per cent of protein, which 
is the material necessary for building tissue, and are called 
protein foods. Protein foods are also energy givers, since 
-all of them, except lean meat, contain certain amounts of 
carbohydrate or fat or both, and since protein itself can be 
oxidized in the body to produce energy. Only a very small 
proportion of the protein molecule is used in body building 
and the rest is burned. So we might consider protein foods 
as energy-givers plus body builders. But the body-building 
function is most important, because only protein contains 
nitrogen, which is the important element for tissue building. 

To Meet the Need for Building and Repairing Bones, 
Teeth, Nails, etc., and for Regulating Body Processes — 
milk, egg-yolk, fresh fruits and vegetables, and the outer 
coats of cereal grains. These two needs are put together 
because they are met by the same kind of food, i. e., foods 
that contain minerals. Fresh fruits and vegetables are good 
sources of minerals, and they are to be valued chiefly for 
this, since they contain such large amounts of water that they 
cannot be compared favorably with other foods as sources 
of energy or of tissue-building material, even though they 
contain certain amounts of carbohydrate and protein. 
Minerals are found also in the outer coats of grain, so that 
cereals from which these coats have not been removed are 
valuable sources. Other foods, such as egg-yolk and milk 
are rich in certain of the minerals. 



10 University' of Texas Bulletin 

Although as many as eleven different minerals are found 
in the body and these must all be supplied by food, we have 
found that a great many of them are necessary in only small 
amounts and that there are only three that are likely to be 
found in insufficient amounts in a diet of ordinary variety. 
These three are calcium, phosphorous, and iron. Our best 
source of calcium is milk. Two and one-half cups of milk 
per day would furnish all the calcium needed by the body, 
even though no other calcium-containing food were taken. 
Milk also contains large amounts of phosphorus, as do lean 
meat, fish, eggs, whole wheat, and string beans. Egg yolk 
and the green vegetables, especially spinach, are to be de- 
pended on for iron, the mineral which plays an important 
part in the production of red blood corpuscles. 

To Meet the Need for Vitamines. "Water-soluble B." 
This is the most widely distributed of the vitamines and is 
present in almost all foods except white flour, white rice, new 
process corn-meal, starch, fats, and sugars. Because of its 
solubility much of it may be lost if the water in which veg- 
etables are cooked is thrown away. 

'Tat-soluble A" is found in animal fats, such as milk fat, 
eggs, beef fat, and codliver oil, but not to any appreciable ex- 
tent in vegetable oils. It is in glandular organs of animals, 
such as brain, liver, and sweet-breads, but not in the mus- 
cular tissue which we more often eat. The leaves, or young, 
sprouting parts of plants, such as asparagus, Brussels 
sprouts, cabbage, celery, kale, lettuce, spinach, etc., are rich 
in the fat-soluble vitamine, but most seeds are poorly sup- 
plied. 

"Water-soluble C." Fresh fruits and vegetables are the 
best sources of vitamine C. It is also soluble in water and 
even more likely to be lost or destroyed in cooking than 
vitamine A. 

Since the majority of our food materials are a mixture of 
protein, fat, carbohydrate, water, and minerals, it would be 
difficult to work out mathematically a food value for each. 
We can, of course, compare them as to their caloric value, 
but this is manifestly unfair to those foods whose chief value 



What to Feed the Family 



11 




1. Cod Liver Oil 

2. Butter 



FOODS RICH IN FAT— SOLUBLE A. 

3. Lettuce 5. Yellow Corn 7. Liver 

4. Tomato 6. Egg Yolk 8. Milk 





9HN 







1. Orange 

2. Whole Wheat Bread 



FOODS RICH IN WATER— SOLUBLE B. 

3. Spinach 5. Potatoes 7. Dried Beans 



4. Cabbage 



6. Yeast 



8. Liver 





■»f 


^-j;^ ^^JKOL. % 


'^f*^.^' ^ii^- 


^^"^ MP 


<w|p^ 



1. Oranges 

2. Lemons 



FOODS RICH IN WATER— SOLUBLE C. 

3. Cabbage 5. Tomatoes, (canned) 

4, Tomatoes, (fresh) 6. Potatoes 



12 



Universitij of Texas Bulletin 



lies in their mineral content. For instance, in comparing 
sugar to fresh tomatoes, you would find that in one pound 
of sugar there are 1814 calories, while in one pound of to- 
matoes there are only 103 calories, but the sugar has nothing 
but calories, while the tomatoes have valuable mineral salts 
and necessary vitamines. 

Instead of attempting to compare all foods by means of 
caloric value, it seems best to follow the rough classification 
already outlined and to compare only foods that we think of 
chiefly as energy givers in terms of caloric value, classify- 
ing the protein foods according to the amount of protein 
contained and the foods valuable for minerals," according 
to the amounts of calcium, phosphorus, or iron. Each type 
of food must be represented in the day's dietary, so there is 
a practical value in comparing them on the basis of the 
body need they best serve. 

Comparison of Energy-Giving Foods on Basis of Caloric 
Value. In dealing with fuel values of food we use the 100- 
calorie portion as a convenient unit with which to work. 
This can be stated in terms of either weight or measure. 
We can then compare foods in two ways, as to the amount 
of food it takes to make a hundred calories or the number 
of calories furnished by an equal weight of the different 
foods, say one pound. Table I on page . . gives both of 
these methods. 



TABLE I 



Comparison of Energy-Giving Foods 



Food 



Starchy Vegetables 

Irish potatoes .... 
Sweet potatoes .. 



Calories 
per pound 



304 

447 



Measure of 

100-calorie 

portion 



Weight of 

100-calorie 

portion 



1 medium 5.27 oz. 

Vo medium 3.58 oz. 



What to Feed the Family 



13 



Cereals 

Cornflakes 1631 

Grape-nuts — 1683 

Macaroons 1624 

Puffed corn -- 1600 

Puffed rice - 1600 

Puffed wheat 1600 

Shredded wheat ....- 1657 

Cornmeal 1613 

Farina 1641 

Hominy grits 1608 

Oatmeal - 1803 

Rice 1591 

Breadstuffs 

White bread 1174 

Graham bread 1140 

Cornmeal mufRns .. 1332 

Bk. pow. biscuit 1232 

Graham crackers .-- 1904 

Soda crackers 1875 

Rolls 1232 

Cakes and Cookies 

Doughnuts 1940 

Molasses cookies -.-- 1776 

Plain cookies 1776 

Loaf cake - 1600 

Angrl cake 1232 

Sweets 

Chocolate fudge ...- 1776 

Corn sirup ,.-- 1056 

Honey - 1480 

Maple sirup 1328 

Molasses 1328 

Sugar, granulated .. 1814 

Sugar, loaf - 1814 

Sugar, brown 1720 

Fats 

Bacon fat - 4000 

Butter 3490 

Cream, thin 880 

Cream, thick 1730 

Cream, whipped ..-. 1730 

Oleomargarine 3490 

Olive oil 4000 

Wesson oil - 4000 



11/4 cups - - 99 oz. 

tablespoonfuls 95 oz. 

Vs cup - 99 oz. 

11/4 cups - 1.00 oz. 

IVs cups - 1.00 oz. 

1% cups - - - 1.00 oz. 

1 biscuit - 90 oz. 

2 tablespoonfuls 99 oz. 

21/2 tablespoonfuls .. .97 oz. 
21/2 tablespoonfuls .. 1.00 oz. 

4 tablespoonfuls .89 oz. 

2 tablespoonfuls 1.01 oz. 



1 slice 1/2 in. thick.. 1.3 

1 slice V2 in. thick.. 1.4 
% muffin 1.2 

2 small biscuits 1.3 

2 crackers large size .8 

4 crackers - .9 

1 roll - 1.3 

1/^ doughnut — .8 

2 cookies, 2 1/4 ''across .9 
2 cookies,2 1/4'' across .9 

1% in. cube.. -.. 1.0 

Piece li/4"x2"x2i/2" 1.3 



Piece 11/2 "x%"xl".. .9 
1% tablespoonfuls .. 1.5 

1 tablespoonfuls .... 1.1 
11/^ tablespoonfuls .. 1.1 
11/^ tablespoonfuls .. 1.2 

2 tablespoonfuls .... .9 

3V2 lumps 9 

2 tablespoonfuls .... .9 

1 tablespoonful 4 

1 tablespoonful 5 

1/4 cup 1.8 

2 tablespoonfuls ... .9 
2 tablespoonfuls .-.. .9 

1 ^-ablespoonful 5 

1 tablespoonful 4 

1 tablespoonful 4 



oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 



oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 



oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 



oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 
oz. 



14 University^ of Texas Bulletin 

From a study of this table we see that it takes more of the 
starch}^ vegetables to make a hundred calories than of fats, 
sweets, or cereals, and that weight for weight we get more 
calories from fat than the other energy-giving foods. Fats 
stand at the top of the list, and starchy vegetables at the 
bottom from the standpoint of fuel value. Of course the 
comparative cheapness of the foods in terms of fuel value 
must be worked out on the basis of the cost per pound. 
This will be considered when we take up the economic aspect 
of food. 

Comparison of Protein-Containing Foods. It has been 
found that the daily diet of each person should contain about 
75 grams of protein. We can compare protein foods as to 
the amount it would take to furnish this 75 grams provided 
no other protein food was consumed. Of course, in our 
ordinary diet we get protein from many foods, so this 
method is used simply for comparison. We can also com- 
pare protein-giving foods as to the amount of protein in a 
100-calorie portion, and Table II, gives the comparison from 
both of these standpoints. 

TABLE II 
Comparison of Protein-Containing Foods 

Approximate Grams of protein 
Food amount contain- in 100-calorie 

ing 75 gms. protein portion 

Meats Pounds 
Beef 

Liver 4/5 17.00 

Loin 1 10.16 

Porterhouse steak 9/10 8.04 

Round steak 9/10 9.94 

Rump steak 1 1/5 5.82 

Tongue 1 1/5 12.08 

Pork 

Ham, smoked 4/5 7.15 

Loin chops 1 1/5 4.94 

Shoulder 1 1/5 4.46 

Sausage meat 1 4.82 



What to Feed the Family 15 



Lamb 

Leg, hind 1 8.55 

Loin 1 5.70 

Shoulder -- 1 1/5 5.33 

Chicken 1 1/5 20.06 

Fish 

Cod, salt 9/10 23.87 

Trout - 1 4/5 11.06 

Mackerel 1 3/5 12.98 

Oysters 2 4/5 12.27 

Eggs 1 2/5 9.06 

Cheese 

American 1/2 6.50 

Cottage 4/5 19.04 

Nuts ' 

Walnuts - 3 2/5 2.59 

Pecans 3 2/5 1.29 

Peanuts 4/5 4.71 

Dried beans 7/10 6.53 

Dried peas 7/10 6.92 

Milk 5 4.76 

A study of this table shows us that it takes from 4/5 to 
1 1/5 pounds of meat to furnish a day's supply of protein. 
Fish, dried beans and peas, eggs, cottage cheese, and pea- 
nuts compare favorably with meat, viewed from this basis, 
while walnuts, pecans, and milk are poorer in protein and 
American cheese much richer. The difference in the amount 
of protein furnished by the 100-calorie portion lies in a 
difference of the fat and carbohydrate content of the food, 
rather than in the protein. Again, the economy of foods 
as a source of protein supply will depend on. the price per 
pound. 

Comparison of Mineral-Containing Foods. Since calcium, 
phosphorous and iron are the three minerals likely to be 
lacking in our ordinary American diet, a good way to get 
an idea of the foods that must be depended on to supply 



16 



UniversiUj of Texas Bulletin 



these is to list foods in the order of their importance as con- 
tainers of these respective minerals. This is best done on 
the basis of the amount contained in the 100-calorie portion. 
Tables III, IV and V give the 25 foods which, with the ex- 
ception of chard, dandelion greens, kohl rabi, rutabagas, 
cottonseed meal, cowpeas, lentils, and green peppers (some 
of the less well-known and less extensively used foods) and 
of buttermilk and meats, are the best sources of these im- 
portant minerals. 

TABLE III 
Comparison of Foods Rich in Calcium 



Grams in 100- 
Food calorie portion 

Celery __ 421 

Cauliflower 403 

Clams 285 

Spinach 281 

Lettuce 224 

Cheese 212 

Rhubarb 189 

Milk 174 

Cabbage 143 

Carrots .124 

Asparagus .122 

Entire wheat .118 

Turnips -. .117 

Spring beans .110 

Oysters 106 

Strawberries .- .104 

Parsnips .091 

Cucumbers .09 

Pumpkin 089 

Oranges 088 

Brussels sprouts .086 

Lemons .08 

Molasses .074 

Raspberries .074 

Onions 069 



Measure of 100- 
calorie portion 

4 cups of 1 in. pieces 
V2 medium head 

6 or Vz cup 

2^/^ cups (cooked) 
2 large heads 
IVs in. cube 

4 cups 1 in. pieces 
% cups 

5 cups (shredded) 
3-4 medium 

20 stalks 

31/^ tablespoonfuls 

2 cups of Vz in. cubes 
2^/4 cups of 1 in. pieces 
12 small 

\Vs cups 

7 pieces ^^W^lVz^y^Vz" 
2V2 1 in. long 

1/4 medium 
1 large 
About 8 

3 large 

1^/^ tablespoonfuls 
1 Vs cups 
3-4 medium 



What to Feed the Family 



17 



TABLE IV 
Comparison of Foods Rich in Phosphorous 

Grams in 100- Measure of 100- 

Food calorie portion calorie portion 

Brussels sprouts .380 About 8 

Spinach .285 2y2 cups cooked 

Clams 282 6 or Vs cup 

Pumpkin .229 i/4 medium 

Lettuce .224 2 large heads 

Celery .201 4 cups of 1 in. pieces 

Cauliflower .200 ^/^ medium head 

Cucumbers .191 2y2 7 in. long 

Asparagus .177 20 stalks 

Cheese .156 1% in. cube 

Cocoa 143 3^/^ tablespoonfuls 

Dried beans .137 2% tablespoonfuls 

Milk .134 % cup 

Rhubarb 134 4 cups of 1 in. pieces 

String beans .126 2^/4 cups of 1 in. pieces 

Egg plant .122 V2 medium 

Eggs 122 IVs 

Peas, green .120 1 cup 

Entire wheat .118 SV2 tablespoonfuls 

Turnips .117 2 cups of i/^ in. cubes 

Parsnips 117 7 pieces 3y2''xli^''xy3'' 

Tomatoes .113 2-3 medium 

Corn .102 1 medium ear 

Carrots .101 3-4 medium 

Graham flour .101 3 tablespoonfuls 



Food 

Spinach 

Clams 

Lettuce 

Asparagus 

Rhubard 

Brussels sprouts 

Cabbage 

Celery 

String beans 



TABLE ^ 


V n 


•ison of Foods 


Rich in Iron 


Grams in 100- 


Measure of 100- 


calorie portion 


calorie portion 


.01506 


21/^ cups (cooked) 


.00970 


6 or Vs cup 


.00785 


2 large heads 


.00451 


20 stalks 


.00433 


4 cups in 1 in. pieces 


.00349 


About 8 


.00349 


5 cups (shredded) 


.00270 


4 cups of 1 in. pieces 


.00265 


21/^ cups of 1 in. pieces 



18 



University- of Texas Bulletin 



Molasses 00255 

Strawberries 00205 

Radishes 00205 

Eggs 00205 

Dried beans 00203 

Cauliower 00197 

Eggplant 00184 

Tomatoes 00175 

Peas, green .00165 

Potatoes 00156 

Entire wheat 00140 

Raisins 00139 

Lemons .00135 

Carrots 00133 

Squash 00130 

Pumpkin 00130 



IVs Tb. 

IVs cups 

3 dozen, red button 

IVs eggs 

2^/^ tablespoonfuls 

V2 medium head 

V2 medium 

2-3 medium 

1 cup 

1 medium 

3^/^ tablespoonfuls 

V4. cup 

3 large 

3-4 medium 

1 medium 

1/4 medium 



It will be noted that twelve of the foods listed (about 50 
per cent) appear on all three lists. These are celery, cauli- 
flower, clams, spinach, lettuce, rhubarb, carrots, asparagus, 
entire wheat, string beans, pumpkin, and brussels sprouts. 
All of these are among the best twenty-five foods, as sources 
of all three minerals. Five foods are classed among the 
best twenty-five as sources of both calcium and phosphor- 
ous — cheese, milk, turnips, parsnips, and cucumbers; four, 
as sources of both calcium and iron — cabbage, strawberries, 
lemons, and molasses ; five, as sources of iron and phosphor- 
ous — dried beans, egg plant, eggs, green peas, and tomatoes. 
Since so many of the mineral-containing foods appear on all 
three lists, or at least on two, we can, for practical purposes, 
consider the foods that supply minerals as a whole, and, 
from an economic standpoint, take the cheapest of these as 
the most economical sources of mineral supply. Then, with 
ordinary variety from day to day, there ought to be little 
danger of a lack of any of the minerals. Meat is high in 
iron, but the iron is mostly in the blood, and since the nu- 
tritive value of blood has been questioned, it is probably 
best to depend on other sources of iron supply. 

Vitamine-Containing Foods. We know too little about the 
amounts of vitamines in the various foods to be able to make 
any comparison on this basis and too little about the amounts 



What to Feed the Family 19 

of vitamine needed by the body to make any definite state- 
ment as to daily requirement. As a matter of fact, there 
will be very little danger of vitamine dehciency in the or- 
dinary varied adult diet if milk and one green vegetable are 
included in each day's diet. It is only in cases of restricted 
diets that the vitamine supply becomes an important con- 
sideration. A restricted diet may result from economic 
necessity or perversity of appetite. A person with definite 
food dislikes, especially for milk and green vegetables, may 
almost eliminate the vitamines from his diet. Since the 
diet of infants is much more restricted than that of adults, 
we shall have to give special consideration to the vitamines 
when we come to discuss that topic. 

WHAT ABOUT THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM? 

In addition to providing the body with food that is ade- 
quate in respect to energy and to building and regulating 
material, we must select food that can be easily taken care 
of by the digestive system, for, as we well know, this mechan- 
ism has its limitations and can cope with some food combina- 
tions much more easily than others. We do not wish to 
overwork any part of the system, or to clog it with too much 
or indigestible food. The purposes of the digestive system 
are to bring all food into a fluid or finely divided form ; to 
reduce the carbohydrates, proteins, and fats to the simple 
chemical substances that can be absorbed in the small intes- 
tine ; to carry the food along the digestive tract at such a rate 
as will permit of complete digestion and absorption ; and to 
expel the undigested residue and waste products. These 
processes are partly chemical and partly mechanical. It is 
perhaps best to consider each part of the system separately. 

The Mouth. The chief duty of the mouth is to grind up 
coarse foods and to soften or dissolve them. When this is 
not done properly, digestion farther on is delayed. When 
the teeth are missing or when, for any reason, chewing can 
not be well done, fluid or finely minced foods should be used. 



.20 Universitif of Texas Bulletin 

Beef should be scraped free of all tough fibres, and veg- 
etables and hard-cooked eggs put through a fine sieve, if 
great ease in digestion is desired. Children are apt to form 
the habit of bolting food. This can be counteracted by giv- 
ing fluid food ; by giving food that must be chewed in order 
to be swallowed, like Zwieback, or crisp toast; by not per- 
mitting them to wash down the food with water, i. e., per- 
mitting a drink only after the food has been swallowed ; and 
by giving plenty of time for meals and requiring them to re- 
main at the table until the meal is finished, so that there is 
no incentive to eat rapidly in order to run off to play. 
Thorough mastication is a good habit and should be formed 
early in life. 

The chemical breaking down or changing of starch is be- 
gun in the mouth by the saliva. Starch must be changed to 
a form of sugar called glucose before it can be absorbed. 
There is great value in taking most of our carbohydrate food 
in the form of starch, because it is very gradually changed 
into glucose and the system can easily take care of it, while 
if vast quantities of sugar, which are almost immediately 
ready for absorption, are taken into the stomach, much irri- 
tation is likely to result because there is too much glucose to 
take care of at once. It is thought by some that continually 
overloading the system with sugar is the cause of diabetes, 
a disease in which the power of the body to oxidize glucose 
is greatly decreased. 

Besides helping to grind and soften all hard, coarse food 
and to start the digestion of carbohydrate, chewing may be 
said to be a signal to the stomach to prepare for its duty. 
The flow of the gastric juice of the stomach begins with the 
chewing of the food, and the stomach is much better able to 
take care of the food that is sent on to it, if time has been 
taken to chew the food properly. 

The Stomach, The receiving end of the stomach acts as 
a reservoir where the food, mixed with the saliva, is held 
for some time and the starch digestion, started by the saliva, 
continues. Gradually this food is passed on into the other 
end of the stomach, where it is thoroughly mixed with the 



What to Feed the Family 21 

gastric juice by means of a "churning movement," the mus- 
cular contractions of the stomach. The gastric juice begins 
the digestion of protein foods, and a good, healthy flov/ de- 
pends on many factors. Regularity of meal time is the most 
important of these, since habit is a powerful force in diges- 
tion, as elsewhere, and the habit of respondmg to food at 
regular times, and at those only, will do much to keep the 
stomach healthy. Water taken at the beginning of a meal 
will stimulate the flow of gastric juice, and the substances 
which give flavor to meat act in the same way, so that there 
is an advantage in serving meat early in the meal or begin- 
ning the meal with a soup made with meat extract. This is 
especially helpful in the case of invalids where the stomach 
responses are feeble and the appetite poor. The general 
nervous state of a person affects the flow of the gastric juice, 
and affects also the '^muscular tone" of the stomach. There 
is a real reason for avoiding unpleasant topics of conversa-. 
tion at the table, and for striving to maintain a pleasant 
meal-time atmosphere. Excitement, worry, anger, chill, and 
fatigue all tend to retard digestive processes and only the 
most easily digested foods should be taken under such con- 
ditions. 

Concentrated foods, such as cheese, candy, nuts, and 
strongly acid fruits are apt to prove irritating to the stomach 
and should be taken only in small quantities or thoroughly 
mixed with other foods. Candy and nuts should not be eaten 
on an" empty stomach, but should be made a part of a meal, 
preferably taken at the end of it. 

A large proportion of fat in a meal tends to retard its 
digestion, i. e., to hold it in the stomach longer. Hence this 
should be avoided by people of sedentary habits or people 
with poor digestion. The out-door worker may find it an 
actual advantage in that it tends to make the meal "stay 
by him" and prevents hunger between meals. 

Good digestion in the stomach, then, depends upon keep- 
ing the whole body in good condition; observing regular 
meal times ; eating only the most digestible foods, when over- 
wrought or exhausted ; thorough mastication ; avoiding large 



22 University^ of Texas Bulletin 

amounts of concentrated or irritating foods; and paying 
attention to the retarding effect of fat. 

The Intestines. In the small intestines the breaking down 
of carbohydrates, proteins, and fats into substances capable 
of absorption is completed by the powerful digestive juices 
in this part of the digestive tract. The pancreatic juice is 
poured in through its special duct; the liver sends the bile, 
which, though it takes no part in the actual breaking down 
process, makes conditions for these changes more favorable, 
and helps especially in the digestion of fat; and the walls 
of the intestine supply the intestinal juice. There are two 
sytems of movement in the intestines, one to mix the food 
with the digestive juices and to bring it into contact with the 
blood vessels lining the intestinal walls, and the other to 
move it through the intestines. All along the surface of the 
intestines the simple substances that have resulted from the 
chemical action of the digestive juices on the food are being 
absorbed. It is very important that the rate of passage of 
food be kept normal, for, if too rapid, as in diarrhoea, ab- 
sorption is incomplete and we lose much of the value of our 
food, and if too slow, opportunity is given for the action of 
bacteria and for the absorption of any poisons they may 
produce. 

Constipation. The normal movement of food through the 
large intestine is greatly hindered by many of the habits of 
civilization. The abdominal muscles get little exercise and 
hence are less vigorous and less able to push the food along 
at the normal rate. This is because of general physical in- 
activity and, in women, because of confining dress. Then, 
our food is apt not to contain enough bulk. The diet must 
contain a certain amount of indigestible material, or cellu- 
lose, to furnish bulk for the intestinal muscles to exercise 
against. Certain foods, as fruits and acid vegetables, have 
a chemically stimulating influence upon the movements of 
the intestines, and these we may unconsciously eliminate 
from our diet. And lastly, habit plays a large part in 
normal intestinal movement, as in other digestive processes. 
When the normal warning is disregarded, it soon becomes. 



What to Feed the Family 23 

ineffective, and, since the greatest stimulus to intestinal 
movement comes after eating, and particularly after break- 
fast, the omission of breakfast may mean the loss of a much 
needed impulse. From these various causes constipation is 
one of the most common ills of modern life. 

In endeavoring to remedy constipation, then, we should 
adopt the following suggestions : 

1. Attempt to form regular habits of defecation. 

2. Eat foods rich in cellulose, such as celery, cabbage, 
string beans, dried beans, asparagus, lettuce, spinach, onions, 
raisins, figs, prunes, and other fruits eaten with their skins, 
and cereals from which the bran has not been removed. 
Bran itself may prove beneficial and can be taken on break- 
fast cereals or as bran bread, muffins, or crackers. 

3. Include acid fruits and vegetables in the diet. These 
are lemons, oranges, tomatoes, rhubarb, apples, cider, and 
other fruits and fruit juices. Desired results are often ob- 
tained by taking fruit or fruit juice the first thing in the 
morning, and liberal serving of fruit at meals is a good 
method of counteracting constipation. 

4. Lubricants are often helpful, and fat, in liberal quan- 
tities, is laxative for people whose digestion of fat is imper- 
fect. For most people, however, it is better to depend on 
the indigestible mineral oil. This does not actually stim- 
ulate intestinal movement, but aids in the elimination of 
waste by making it softer and allowing it to pass through 
the digestive tract more readily. 

5. Water, if taken in large quantities (two glasses or 
more on an empty stomach) may aid in intestinal movement 
and drinking water freely is very desirable. 

6. Take plenty of exercise and, if possible, discard cor- 
sets. 

Bacteria. Perhaps a few words about the bacteria of 
the intestinal tract will not be amiss. In the stomach we 
find a type of bacteria that produce fermentation. These act 
only on carbohydrate food, and in case a person is greatly 
troubled by fermentation it is necessary to decrease the 
amount of carbohydrate in the food. If, for any reason, 



24 Universitij of Texas Bulletin 

food does not pass through the stomach at a normal rate, or 
if the stomach is loaded with sweet food which the system 
can not immediately dispose of, there is likely to be discom- 
fort from the gases of fermentation. The products of fer- 
mentation are not, however, harmful to the body, when ab- 
sorbed into the system. Along the small intestine and in 
great numbers in the large intestines are found the putre- 
factive type of bacteria. These act on protein food and pro- 
duce poisons which, when absorbed into the system cause 
headaches, dizziness and perhaps auto-intoxication. The 
putrefactive bacteria act especially upon meat protein, and 
if great quantities of meat are eaten by a sedentary person 
who is troubled with constipation, so that the food is held 
over-long in the large intestine and plenty of time given 
the bacteria for the production of poison, trouble of the 
kind described above is apt to result. 

Summing up, we might say that the practical warnings 
we get from a study of the digestive system are as follows : 

1. Keep the body, as a whole, in good condition. Any 
impairment of the nervous system is sure to show itself in 
a lowered vitality of the digestive system. 

2. Take food at regular intervals ; avoid eating between 
meals. 

3. Masticate thoroughly. 

4. Avoid too large proportion of fat or sugar in the diet. 
The habit of loading cooked vegetables with vast quantities 
of butter is bad. Butter is best used separately on bread. 

5. Avoid constipation. 

6. Use small amounts of meat in the diet, especially if 
the occupation is sedentary. 

7. Avoid use of condiments. They overstimulate and 
irritate the digestive tract. 

8. Remember that the more complicated the food, the 
more difficult it is of digestion. Sim.ple foods are best. 

WHY AND HOW SHOULD THE FOOD OF CHILDREN AND 
AND ADULTS DIFFER? 

A difference in the capacity of the digestive system makes 
necessary a difference in the diet of children and grown-ups. 



What to Feed the Fa7nily 25 

Since we use the same material for repair as for growth, 
there is little difference in the kind of food needed, i. e., if 
the new-born infant could digest bread and cheese, that 
would be just as good a food for him as for a grown-up, but 
we know that the digestive system of an infant is a very del- 
icate mechanism, and that the first food must be fluid and 
must contain protein, fat, and carbohydrate in the most 
easily digested forms. We also know that the growing body 
must be furnished with mineral salts and that the vitamine 
supply must not be stinted. For the most part, nature takes 
care of the problem during the first nine months of the child's 
life, by providing breast milk for the child. This milk con- 
tains protein, fat, and carbohydrate in forms that are 
specially adapted to the needs of the child. It contains all 
the necessary mineral salts, but is very low in iron. Since 
the baby comes into the world with an extra supply of iron, 
three times as much being found in his body in proportion 
to weight as in that of the adult, this lack is not important 
until weaning time, when iron-giving foods must be intro- 
duced into the diet. The vitamine supply of the child on 
breast milk seems to depend on the vitamine supply of the 
food of the mother, so she should see to it that her food con- 
tains all three of these necessary substances. 

Artificial Feeding. When, for any reason, it is impossible 
for the child to obtain its natural food, we must resort to 
artificial feeding. Since we have never been able to even 
approximate, in artificial feeding, the results obtained in 
breast-feeding, this should be considered as a last resort, 
never as a "just-as-good" substitute. Here we must find a 
food which the baby can digest and which contains the food 
elements in proper proportions. The milk of another 
species of animal at once suggests itself, and cow's milk is 
the most practicable. Cow's milk contains the same building 
materials as human milk, but in different proportions and in 
somewhat different form. So the milk must usually be 
changed or modified to meet the needs of the child. There 
are several different methods of accomplishing this, but the 
modification of milk has been discussed so often and so well 



26 University of Texas Bulletin 

that we shall not take it up in detail here. Detailed direc- 
tions may be found in Rose, ''Feeding the Family" ; Holt, 
"The Care and Feeding of Children"; Morse and Talbot, 
"Diseases of Nutrition and Infant Feeding," or any reliable 
book on infant feeding. The two methods most used are 
known as whole milk and top milk methods. In the first, 
whole milk is diluted with water to decrease the percentage 
of protein, and milk sugar is added to bring up the energy 
value. In the second, the top 10-24 oz. of milk are removed, 
mixed together, and diluted, and milk sugar added. This is 
used with healthy children who are able to digest a large per 
cent of fat. Both of these methods need to be considered in 
the light of our present konwledge of vitamines. Milk is by 
no means rich in water-soluble B, and it has been suggested 
that a failure to realize this and to supply this vitamine in 
proper amounts may be one of the reasons for the failure of 
artificial feeding. Experiments in which B has been sup- 
plied, by using a specially prepared vegetable soup as a di- 
lutant instead of water, by increasing the amount of orange 
juice, which is usually given as a routine measure to prevent 
scurvy, and by using an extract of wheat embryo, seem to 
indicate that this is true, as there was an increase in growth 
in children when extra water-soluble B was supplied in any 
of these forms. Orange juice has long been recognized as 
an antiscorbutic, i. e., as containing large amounts of water- 
soluble C, but it has also value as a growth-promoter on ac- 
count of its content of water-soluble B. In every case, when 
the allowance of orange juice was increased from one to 
three tablespoonf uls per day, there was an increase in weight 
with children who were not gaining properly on artificial 
milk mixtures, and this was proved to be due to its water- 
soluble B content. 

As to top milk mixtures, we should remember that here we 
are using a mixture that contains practically no water-sol- 
uble B. Top-milk contains very little of this vitamine, the 
greater part remaining in the skim-milk. It would be even 
more necessary than in using whole milk to supply the miss- 
ing vitamines. 



What to Feed the Family 27 

Whole-milk mixtures are more satisfactory, on the whole, 
in infant feeding, and it would seem that a whole-milk mix- 
ture, adapted to the digesive capacity and energy require- 
ment of the child, fed with 3 Tb. of orange juice, the orange 
juice being diluted and given between feedings, would meet 
the requirements of the child as far as we understand them 
today. 

Proprietary Foods. Proprietary infant foods are widely 
advertised, but their use should be resorted to only in case 
a child refuses to take the modified milk mixture, and then 
must be used with an intelligent understanding of their com- 
position and of what additions must be made to furnish a 
complete food. In composition they differ widely. Some 
of them consist of dried milk mixed with a certain amount 
of sugar or dextrin and maltose, to be used with water 
without cooking; others consist of dried milk mixed w^'th 
sugar and baked wheat flour, to be used with sugar, but re- 
quiring cooking ; and a large number are made chiefly from 
wheat or barley flour, sometimes simply baked and some- 
times more or less completely changed to dextrin or maltose. 
Those not requiring the addition of milk are to be criticised 
because they deprive the baby of fresh food and because 
they are often low in fat and ash content. Most proprietary 
formulas are high in carbohydrate, and the result of using 
them is an increase in weight of the child, often beyond the 
normal. The body stores water and fat instead of building 
bone and muscle. The child looks fat, but is likely to suc- 
cumb quickly in case of illness and to have trouble from soft 
or brittle bones, due to a lack of minerals in the diet. Pro- 
prietary foods should be used chiefly as milk modifiers, in 
place of the barley water which is prescribed as a routine 
measure to make the milk mixture more easy of digestion and 
to add fuel value. They sometimes are valuable in giving a 
different taste to the food, so that the child finds it more 
enjoyable and will thus take more than of the ordinary mod- 
ified milk. Orange juice should always be added to promote 
normal growth and to prevent scurvy. 

Diet of Older Children. By the time he is nine months 



28 Universitjj^ of Texas Bulletin 

old, the diet of the child needs to be supplemented by some 
iron-giving food. For this purpose the yolk of an egg 
should be given daily. About this time, also, he should be 
given, after one of his feedings, a small piece of stale bread 
to chew. The chief value of this lies in teaching the child to 
chew his food. At the age of a year, often at nine months, 
a child, whether bottle or breast fed, should be taking a quart 
of whole milk, supplemented by orange juice, dried bread, 
and egg-yolk. The next addition to the diet is in the form 
of thoroughly cooked cereal put through a fine strainer, then, 
gradually, giving small amounts of the new foods and try- 
ing only one at a time, other kinds of fruit juice or pulp, as 
prune juice or pulp, cooked apple juice or pulp, pineapple 
or fresh peach juice, carefully strained. Vegetable pulp is 
the next introduction, using first small amounts of the mild- 
flavored vegetables, always thoroughly cooked and put 
through a sieve to get rid of the cellulose with which the di- 
gestive tract is not yet able to cope. Spinach is rich in iron 
and is the best vegetable to add first, then green peas, aspar- 
agus tips, young beets or carrots. The vegetable pulp may 
be given with a little salt added, or a small amount of cream, 
or may be made into a cream soup with milk. Potatoes 
baked or boiled and well mashed may next be added. The 
diet of the two-year old should be selected from the follow- 
ing: milk, well-cooked cereals, fruit juice or pulp, yolk of 
egg, or whole soft-boiled egg, vegetable pulp, and stale 
bread. 

The principle of gradual increase in complexity of diet 
must still be adhered to after the child has passed his sec- 
ond year. Give the digestive tract plenty of time to adjust 
itself to new foods. Green vegetables may now be mashed 
or chopped instead of sifted, and string beans, squash and 
celery may be added. Mild, thoroughly cooked fruits, such 
as baked apples, apple sauce, or stewed pear may take the 
place of the fruit juice or pulp. Whole eggs, cooked at a 
low temperature (never hard-boiled or fried) should form 
a regular part of the diet. Milk is still the chief basis of the 
diet, and a quart a day should be taken. This need not all 



What to Feed the Family 29 

be used as beverage, but some of the top milk may be used on 
cereal, and some of tJie niiik may ub .served in milk soup or 
used for simple dessert, as junket or custard, or used in mak- 
ing milk toast. Keep sugars and sweet foods and meats out 
of the diet. They may not make the child derinitely ill, but 
they are not good for him and not necessary, and will most 
certainly spoil his taste lor the milder kinds of food which 
should form the main part of his diet. 

Since the diet of the child already contains everything 
essential for his proper growth, the problems from this time 
on are to provide these simple foods in enough variety to 
keep the child satisfied and to prevent him from acquiring 
a taste for more complicated and more highly seasoned foods. 
Butter may be added to the diet, but should be used on bread, 
rather than in cooking. Perfectly ripe raw fruits should be 
added cautiously and, with still more caution, the vegetables 
that are eaten raw. Cocoa will prove valuable as a bever- 
age, but no tea or coffee should be given children. Home- 
made frozen dishes, such as milk sherbets and plain ice 
cream, will give variety to the desserts. Bought ice cream, 
unless one is absolutely certain of the quality, should be 
avoided. Occasionally plain cookies, or graham crackers 
may be served with the dessert. The longer meat can be 
kept out of the diet, the better it will be for the child. Meat 
protein, as has been said before, is the protein most liable 
to putrefaction, and experiments indicate that the younger 
the child the more speedily the products of putrefaction 
tend to develop. Since the child is already getting all the 
building material needed from the milk, eggs, and cereals 
of his diet, there is no need that the meat would serve that 
is not already and better met by milk, eggs, and cereals. 

Thus, gradually, are the foods of adults introduced into 
the diet of a child. A quart of milk a day is a good basis 
for a child's diet, all during the growing period, and the 
adult diet could contain that amount with advantage and 
should contain at least a pint. 

Every effort should be made to keep the child interested 
in eating the proper kind and amount of food. The school 



30 University of Texas Bulletin 

nutrition classes are doing much to create this interest in 
the child of school age, and surely education in proper nutri- 
tion should be made a vital part of the general education of 
every child. Competitive methods used in the schools do 
much towards inducing children to eat the right kind of food, 
when all efforts of the mother have failed. Attempts to in- 
troduce this work into our school systems should meet with 
every encouragement. The nutrition of the child of pre- 
school age is however in the hands of the mother, and she 
will find valuable aids in arousing the interest of the child in 
the problem of his own nutrition in the material put out by 
the Child Health Organization and various other agencies 
interested in Child Welfare. This material consists of 
health talks told as fairy stories, of the Child Health Alpha- 
bet, Mother Goose rhymes to emphasize health principles, 
plays and games, and charts for recording weight and mak- 
ing weight curves. The organizations getting out material 
of this kind are : 

Child Health Organization, 156 Fifth Avenue, New York 
City. 

Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, New 
York City. 

Anti-Tuberculosis League, Boston, Mass. 

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York City. 

Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C. 

We shall discuss the methods and results of the Nutrition 
Classes in more detail later on. 

MAKING THE MENU 

And now comes the question of planninig menus that will 
meet the varying needs and the varying tastes of the differ- 
ent members of the family. Planning three meals a day is 
probably the biggest bugaboo of the housekeeper, and how 
thankful she would be if someone else would take over the 
responsibility. But, unfortunately, it is the one part of 
homemaking that ought not to be trusted to an untrained 
person. If you would have your family well fed, there is no 



What to Feed the Family 31 

escape from the planning of the menus. There remains th© 
possibility of lessening the amount of work involved by fol- 
lowing certain routine methods, always with a clear idea in 
mind of what you are trying to accomplish. 

Two Aspects of Menu-Making. First, let us bring to- 
gether the points that must be kept in mind for meal-plan- 
ning. We should regard menus from two standpoints, the 
physiological and the aesthetic. From the physiological 
standpoint, the following suggestions are made: 

1. Serve meat only once a day (exclusive of bacon for 
breakfast). The disadvantages of eating meat in large 
quantities have already been pointed out. This rule is 
especially applicable when most of the members of the 
family follow sedentary occupations. 

2. If possible, use a pint of milk a day for every adult 
and a quart for every child under sixteen. This need not 
all be taken as a beverage, but much can be used in cooking. 
This amount of milk should be kept in mind when planning 
menus. 

3. At least one green vegetable every day. We depend 
on this and on the milk for an adequate mineral supply. 

4. Some uncooked food (fruit or vegetable) each day. 
Vitamine supply is best assured by uncooked food. 

5. Plenty of simple, wholesome food to meet the energy 
demands of the body. Remember that the food value of a 
food is the same whether served simply or elaborately, and 
that the simpler the food, the easier it is to digest. With 
this in mind, decide how much elaboration is worth while. 

6. Spend as much money for milk as for meat, and an 
equal amount for fresh vegetables and fruits. This helps 
to insure a well-balanced diet. Most people spend about 
one-third of all the food-money for meat. 

To make our menus attractive, as well as physiologically 
complete, the following points should be kept in mind. 

1. Always plan meals for at least a day. By taking the 
day as a unit rather than the meal, repetition is avoided and 
the careless throwing together of whatever foods happen to 
be on hand or suggest themselves at the last minute. Many 
homemakers find it valuable to plan menus for a week, and 



32 University' of Texas Bulletin 

this is a good way to insure well-planned meals, even though 
changes are necessary to meet certain emergencies. Have 
a definite time for planning the week's menus, and you will 
find it both time-saving and money-saving. 

2. Avoid serving any food twice in the same day, in the 
same form, or better still, avoid serving twice in any form. 

3. Avoid serving food which gives a pronounced flavor 
to a dish twice in the same meal, even in different forms, 
as tomato soup, tomato catsup, and tomato salad. 

4. If the meal is served in courses, contrasts in flavor, 
texture, and temperature will help make it more appetizing. 

5. Keep today's leftovers till day after tomorrow. 

6. Make a difference in winter and summer menus. 

7. Have a definite meal plan. 

The Meal Plan. The two last suggestions need to be dis- 
cussed in more detail, for by a meal plan we mean just what 
ought to be served for breakfast, for lunch, and for dinner. 
The breakfast, lunch, and dinner plan is followed, rather 
than breakfast, dinner, and supper, because it seems to fit in 
better with the living plans of the majority of people. There 
is no reason why the latter plan should not be followed if 
found more convenient. We can discuss meal plans from 
the standpoint of what should be included in the type of 
meal designated as very light, light, medium, and heavy, 
the type selected depending somewhat on the energy re- 
quirements of the members of the family and somewhat on 
the amount of variety that the family demands in the diet. 
The diet of laboring people tends, for economic reasons, 
to lack variety, but the increased appetite that comes from 
muscular exercise enables them to eat large quantities of 
the same food, while the more capricious appetite of the 
sedentary worker demands greater variety, and the result 
of too little variety is failure to eat enough. Here are the 
various types of meal plans. 



What to Feed the Family 



33 



BREAKFAST 

Very light 

Friut 
Toast or rolls — butter 
Coffee, cocoa, or milk 

Light 

Fruit 

Cereal 

Breadstuff and butter 

Beverage 

or 

Fruit 

Eggs or bacon 

Breadstuff and butter 

Beverage 

Medium 

Fruit 

Cereal 

Eggs or bacon 

Breadstuff and butter 

Beverage 

Heavy- 
Fruit 
Cereal 
Eggs or bacon 
One other hot dish 
(potatoes) 
Breadstuff and butter 
Beverage 



LUNCH 

Very light 

Sandwiches 
(substantial) 
Cocoa 
or 
Cream soup 
Sandwiches 

Light 

Hot dish 

(Chowder, cheese dish, 

e^g dish, creamed dish 

on toast) 

Bread and butter 

Beverage 

or 

Heavy salad 

{eggy meat or chees) 

Bread and butter 

Beverage 

or 

Sandwiches 

Light salad (vegetable 

or fruit) 

Bread and butter 

Medium 

Hot dish (as above) 

Bread and butter 

Beverage 

Dessert 

or 

Hot dish 

Bread and butter 

Salad (vegetable or 

fruit) 

Beverage 

or 

Heavy salad 

Bread and butter 

Dessert 

or 

Heavy salad 

Sandwiches 

Beverage 

or 



DINNER 

Very light 

Meat 

Vegetable 

Bread and butter 

Dessert 

Light or Medium 

Meat 

Starchy vegetable 

Green vegetable 

Bread and butter 

Dessert 

or 

Meat 

Starchy vegetable 

Salad 

Bread and butter 

Dessert 

or 

Soup 

Meat 

Vegetable 

Bread and butter 

Dessert 

or 

Soup 

Meat 

Vea-etable 

Bread and butter 

Fruit salad 
(Meat may be com- 
bined with vegetables, 
as in stew, and salad 
or dessert added; or 
meat combined with 
starchy vegetable and 
green vegetable; and 
dessert added ) 

Heavy 

Soup 

Meat 

2 vegetables 

Salad 

Bread and butter 

Dessert 

Beverage 



34 University of Texas Bulletin 

Soup 
Hot dish 
Light salad 
Bread and butter 
or 
Soup 
Hot dish 
Bread and butter 
Dessert 
Heavy- 
Soup 
Hot dish .„.iD69'i' 

Salad ...sioT^a 

Bread and butter 
Dessert 
(Light salad with heavy dessert 

or 

heavy salad with light dessert) 

or 

Soup 

Two hot dishes 

^ ^ . Bread and butter 

, t^'^^'' Dessert 

or 

Two hot dishes 

Salad 

Bread and butter 

Beverage 

or 

Two hot dishes 

Bread and butter 

Beverage 

Dessert 

^"■The first thing to decide is the type of meal best suited to 
your particular family, not that this is to be adhered to ab- 
solutely, day after day, without change. It is possible to 
have a very light breakfast and a medium lunch and heavy 
dinner occasionally, but it is better, as an ordinary rule, to 
have the three meals more nearly equal. Let us select the 
light breakfast as suitable to the family where the father is 
engaged in a sedentary occupation and the mother does most, 
but not the heaviest part, of the housework. Fruit, the first 
thing in the morning, has much to recommend it. It acts as 



What to Feed the Family 35 

an appetizer, helps to offset constipation, and furnishes min- 
erals and vitamines. Fresh fruit in season is best, but this 
may be varied by serving dried fruit sauces either alone or 
with the cereal, or by serving raisins or dates cooked with 
the cereal. The ready-to-serve cereals are welcome as a sum- 
mer-time dish, though never as cheap or as good from a 
physiological standpoint as the cooked cereals. Shredded 
wheat has been found to be the best and cheapest of the 
ready-to-serve cereals, and oatmeal stands out as the best of 
the cooked variety. The top milk and sugar served with 
cereals add greatly to their value. Toast is much better as 
a breakfast breadstuff than the hot breads which we are 
accustomed to serve. It is more easily digested, since it must 
be thoroughly chewed, and does not slip down the throat in 
pasty masses, which the digestive juices have trouble in 
breaking up. While hot breads hardly deserve to be entire- 
ly taboo, they should be used occasionally to give variety to 
the diet, rather than as the usual breakfast bread. Hot 
cakes or waffles and syrup are indigestible, both because of 
the hot bread and the large quantity of sugar introduced in 
the stomach. They should be kept for winter menus and 
served infrequently, even then. Occasionally the cereal may 
be omitted and eggs or bacon served instead, but it should be 
remembered that it takes at least three eggs or eight pieces 
of bacon (unless the fat is utilized) to equal in fuel value a 
dish of cereal with top milk and sugar, so it would be an ex- 
pensive procedure to try to substitute them in equal fuel 
value very often. Of course the deficiency occurring when 
smaller amounts are used could be made up by eating more 
of the breadstuff and butter, or jam or jelly could be served. 
Coffee, tea, cocoa, or milk are the usual breakfast beverages, 
cocoa and milk having real food value, while coffee and tea 
are valuable only for the sugar and cream they contain. 

With a light breakfast, one of the medium types of lunch 
is desirable. As a type lunch, perhaps the one that fits in 
best with a general scheme is the one including a hot dish, 
bread and butter, salad, and beverage. This makes neces- 
sary the preparation of only one dessert for the day, — the 



36 University^ of Texas Bulletin 

one served at dinner. Suggestions for the main hot dish 
which is usually a meat substitute dish, i. e., dish containing 
protein, will be given later. White bread or whole wheat 
bread as staples, with corn bread or muffins for variety, are 
the luncheon breadstuffs, while the salad should be a fruit or 
vegetable salad with mayonnaise or cooked dressing, and the 
beverage cocoa or milk, the cocoa being served hot in the 
winter and iced in the summer. If tea is occasionally used, 
the loss in fuel value may be made up by serving preserves or 
jelly with the bread. In the summer, the hot dish may be 
replaced by substantial sandwiches, in the winter the bever- 
age replaced by soup. Any of the variations suggested may 
by used, but it is best to select as a type menu the one best 
suited to the particular family in question and to keep the 
others in mind as variations. 

Meat, two vegetables, bread and butter, and dessert make 
a dinner menu that fits in well with the breakfast and 
luncheon menus suggested, and affords plenty of variety for 
the ordinary family dinner. It is not necessary, perhaps 
not advisable, to have a heavy, all-meat dish for every din- 
ner. Many families follow the plan of ordering meat only 
two or three times a week, and using left-over meat dishes 
between times. Meat can be combined with other food ma- 
terials in many appetizing ways, and this practice is to be en- 
couraged. Especially in the summer do we want to reduce 
the amount of meat in the diet. Of the two vegetables, one 
should be of the starchy variety — Irish or sweet potatoes, 
rice, hominy, or macaroni ; the other should be green or suc- 
culent, — peas, asparagus, cabbage, onions, turnips, carrots, 
any vegetable, in fact, except the ones listed as starchy. 
Hot breads are best kept for breakfast or luncheon when 
there is less variety than at dinner. Simple desserts, rather 
than heavy pies or puddings, will help in keeping the meal 
easy to digest and in avoiding that stuffy feeling that so often 
comes after a too-sufficient meal. The following day's menu, 
worked out according to the above plan, will provide the 
2250 calories that are necessary for a person of average 



What to Feed the Family . 



37 



weight engaged in moderate muscular work, and will meet 
the body's need for minerals, vitamines, and protein: 



Grams Calo- 

Food Measure of Protein ries 
Breakfast 

Orange V2 .80 50 

Oatmeal 1/20 2.10 50 

Top milk 1/4 c 1.25 100 

Sugar 2 tsp. 35 

Toast 1 piece V2'' thick 3.60 100 

Butter 1 tb. .13 100 

Milk 1 glass 4.76 100 

Lunch 

Macaroni and cheese 1 c 8.50 200 

Whole wheat bread.. 1 piece V2'' thick 4.00 100 

Butter 1 tb. .13 100 

Fruit salad V2 c fruit, 1 tb. dressing 1.80 200 

Cocoa (made w it h 

milk) 1 c 10.00 250 

Dinner.. 

Hamburg steak 2 small cakes 

Baked potato 1 medium 

Spinach % c 

Bread 1 slice 

Butter (for potato, 

spinach, bread).... 3 Tb 

Apple snow 1 c 

Whipped cream 1 Tb 

Totals 74.50 2,270 



28.00 


200 


2.69 


100 


1.00 


35 


3.60 


100 


.39 


300 


1.50 


100 


.25 


50 



Suggestions. After selecting the type of menu suited to 
your particular needs, it is necessary to have at your com- 
mand a variety of dishes that will fit into these menus. The 
following scheme of menu-planning has been found to save 
both time and energy. Breakfast is a very simple meal to 
plan. With the type breakfast in mind, and a knowledge of 
the fruits on the market and several cereals on hand, it is 
hardly worth while to actually put down the breakfast menu 
on paper. 



38 University of Texas Bulletin 

Lunch presents greater difficulties. It is a bit trouble- 
some to get enough meat substitute dishes, that are accept- 
able to the family and easy to prepare, for proper variety. 
So the cook books were reviewed for dishes of this kind and 
a list made. This list has been added to from time to time, 
as new recipes have been discovered, tried out, and found 
possible. A list of fruit salads and vegetable salads was 
also found to be a help, and various kinds of breadstuff s were 
listed, as a certain amount of variety can be obtained by 
changing these. 

For dinner, a list of meat and meat dishes and of desserts 
were all that was found necessary, since the choice of starchy 
vegetables is very limited and variety must be obtained by 
serving in different ways, and the choice of green vegetables 
is so great that one only needs to know the market. These 
lists also are constantly added to, and with them at hand and 
the type menu in mind, the planning of meals loses much of 
its fearsomeness. The recipes may be kept in a card cat- 
alog. Of course, the type menu is quite often departed from, 
soup or salad or both being added for a company dinner or 
some of the various substitute menus already suggested 
being used if the meals seem to be getting a bit monotonous. 
These lists contain only dishes that can be quickly and easily 
prepared, since it has been necessary, on account of outside 
work, that just as little time as possible be spent or- meal 
preparation. However, in many households, a great deal 
too much time is spent in the kitchen and simpler menus 
would mean more time for the homemaker and better diges- 
tion for the family. The lists are reproduced here for what- 
ever help they may be to the reader, but with the realization 
that a list of this kind, suitable for one family group, might 
not be acceptable to another. Each family should have its 
own lists. 



What to Feed the Family 

TABLE VI 
Main Dishes for Luncheon Dinner Meats 



39 



Cheese Dishes 

Macaroni and cheese 

Baked stuffed potatoes with 

cheese 
Rice and cheese 
Rice, cheese, and tomatoes 
Creamed cheese on toast 
Nut and cheese roast 
Rice fondue on crackers 

Egg Dishes 

Eggs a la goldenrod 
Creamed eggs 
Baked eggs (with bacon) 
Omelets, plain or with bacon, 

cheese, etc. 
Poached eggs on tomato 

Egg and Cheese Dishes 

Cheese souffle 
Welsh rarebit 
Cheese fondue 
Cheese pudding 

Nut Dishes 

Nut loaf 

Nut and potato timbales 

Oysters 

Oyster stew 
Fried oysters 
Creamed oysters 
Scalloped oysters 

Sandwiches 

Pimento and cheese 

Peanut butter 

Date and nut 

Date and prune 

Date and cream cheese 

Mock chicken 

Tuna fish 

Raisin and cheese 

Olive and cheese 

Chopped ham and apple 



Beef or Veal 

Broiled steak 

Smothered steak 

Swiss steak 

Roast beef 

Veal chops 

Veal with tomato sauce 

Breaded veal cutlets 

Veal loaf 

Hamburg steak 

Tenderloin of beef 

Heart, stuffed 

Tongue 

Sweetbreads 

Liver 

Brains 

Mutton or Lamb 

Roast 
Chops 

Pork 

Roast 

Chops 

Sausage 

Ham — baked, fried, boiled 

Spareribs 

Bacon 

Tenderloin 

Fish, Fresh 

Baked 
Fried 
Steamed 
Creamed 

Fish, Canned 

Salmon loaf 
Salmon croquettes 
Salmon timbales 
Sardines 
Tuna fish 



40 



University of Texas Bulletin 



Sandwiches, Toasted 




Oysters 


Hot cheese 




Fried 


Bacon and tomato with mayon- 


Scalloped 


naise 




Creamed 


Club 




Rabbit 


Cream Soups 




Stewed 


Cream of pea soup 




Baked 


Cream of tomato soup 






Cream of potato soup 




Chicken 


Cream of asparagus soup 




Fried 


Cream of celery soup 




Fricasse 


Cream of baked bean 




Baked 


Cream of peanut butter, 


etc. 





Miscellaneous 

Creamed dried beef on toast 

Baked bananas with bacon 

Baked beans 

Creamed tuna fish on toast 

Turkish pilaf 

Macaroni croquettes 

Egg, cheese, or fish salad 

Salads 

Heavy Salads (containing protein) 

Egg 

Nut and cheese 

Pineapple and cheese 

Apricot and cheese 

Apple and peanut 

Tuna fish 

Date and cream cheese 

Potato, peas, and nut 

Cottage cheese 

Prune and cottage cheese 

Chicken 

Fruit Salads 

Pineapple 

Pear 

Apricot 

Apple 

Orange 

Grape-fruit 



Combination Dishes 

Stuffed peppers 

Cannelon of beef 

Turkish pilaf 

Rice and meat loaf 

Meat stew 

Baked hash 

Meat pie 

Cottage pie 

Ham timbales 

Creamed dried beef on toast 

Rolled steak with dressing 

Desserts 

Fruit Desserts 

Canned peaches 
Canned pears 
Canned appricots 
Canned pineapple ■ 
Canned cherries 
Baked apples 
Apricot souffle 
Prune whip 
Apple snow 
Ambrosia 

Gelatine Desserts 

Lemon jelly 
Fruit gelatine 
Snow pudding 
Bavarian cream 
Marshmallow gelatine 



What to Feed the Family 



41 



Banana 
White cherry 
Apple and date 
Apple and prune 
Apple and banana 
Orange and banana 
Waldorf 

Vegetable 

Lettuce 

Celery 

Tomato 

Beet 

Potato 

Cold slaw 

Combination 

Perfection 

Asparagus 

Tomato jelly 

Celery and tomato 

Tomato and asparagus 

Celery and carrot 

Tomato and cucumber 

Beet and pea 

Fruit and Vegetable 

Apple and celery 
Tomato stuffed with pineapple 
Celery, apple, and green pepper 
Celery, apple, and asparagus 
Banana, apple, and celery 
Cabbage and apple 

Salad Dressings 

Mayonnaise 
French 
Boiled 
Thousand Island 



Frozen Desserts 
Ice Creams 

Vanilla 

Chocolate 

Banana 

Strawberry 

Grape-nut 

Peach 
Ices 

Pineapple 

Apricot 

Green-gage 

Orange 

Lemon 

Fruit 
Milk Sherbets 

Lemon 

Orange 
Frozen pears 
Frozen apricots 
Frozen peaches 
Frozen pineapple 

Custards 

Soft 

Baked 

Caramel 

Chocolate 

Banana 

Puddings 

Prune 

Bread 

Rice 

Chocolate blanc mange 

Pineapple 

Brown Betty 

Date 

Chocolate tapioca 

Apple tapioca 

Gingerbread with sauce 

Cottage 

Pies and Shortcakes 

Strawberry shortcake 
Fruit pie 
Custard pie 



42 University' of Texas Bulletin 

Breadstuffs 

White bread 

Graham bread 

Nut bread 

Raisin bread 

Rolls 

Baking powder biscuit (white or graham) 

Drop biscuit 

Scones 

Plain muffins 

Graham muffins 

Rice muffins 

Oatmeal muffins 

Boston brown bread 

Waffles 

Hot cakes 

Suiting the Meyiu to the Needs of the Childrefi. With a 
definite knowledge of the foods suitable for children of dif- 
ferent ages, it is not a difficult matter to plan menus and 
manage the preparation of meals so that each child may 
have the right kind of food. As far as is possible, select 
foods that all members of the family can eat, but be sure to 
omit from the diet of the child foods he should not have and 
to see that any necessary food not furnished in the menu 
planned is supplied. For instance, suppose there are three 
children aged 3, 7, and 12, and we have planned the day's 
menu given on page — . How could this be made to fit in 
with the needs of each child? Beginning with breakfast, 
the fruit selected would be all right for all members of the 
family, using orange juice for the three-year old. But if 
we had planned grape-fruit or strawberries, since the baby 
can eat neither of these, we w^ould have an orange or some 
other suitable fruit on hand. Oatmeal would be served to 
everyone. Toast and milk complete the breakfast menu, 
and no change would have to be made here for the child 'i^n. 
But if hot bread is planned, then toast must be made for the 
two youngest. 

At lunch time, some of the plain, well-cooked macaroni 
should be provided for the two younger children instead of 



What to Feed the Family 43 

macaroni and cheese. Stale or well dried bread should re- 
place graham bread for the younger child, and a well-cooked 
fruit should be used instead of fruit salad for both the three 
and seven year old. Perhaps milk would be the best bev- 
erage for the three-year old, but everyone else could have 
cocoa. 

At dinner, meat would be prepared for only the three 
oldest members of the family. But baked potato, spinach, 
and apple snow would be suitable for all, omitting whipped 
cream in serving the baby. But suppose we are planning 
creamed onions for the green vegetable the next day, then 
it would be well to save some of the spinach for the baby to 
eat at that time. And some of the apple sauce used in mak- 
ing apple snow could be saved for the next day's dessert in 
case you were planning pie which the younger children could 
not have. Planning meals suitable for both adults and 
children tends to make the menus for the grown-ups simpler 
than they would otherwise be, but this is to be regarded as 
an advantage rather than a disadvantage. 

Food Prejudices. Every possible means should be taken 
to keep children from forming food prejudices and to induce 
adults to overcome those already formed. Half the trouble 
in menu-making comes because John absolutely refuses to 
eat carrots and Susie never touches rice. And how often 
you will find that a person expressing a strong dislike for a 
particular food has never even tasted it. Never suggest to a 
child that he may not like a certain food, or express a dis- 
like for a food yourself. That there is no real basis for 
these food prejudices is attested by the fact that a food de- 
tested at one period of life often becomes a prime favorite 
at another. Some people have an idea that foods they do 
not like are not good for them, but even a superficial study 
of the way in which the digestive system does its work will 
upset such notions. 



44 



University of Texas Bulletin 



HOW SHALL WE JUDGE THE RESULTS OF OUR FEEDING 

METHODS? 

There is no better way to decide whether or not we are 
following the correct feeding methods than to examine the 
nutritive condition of the various members of the family. 

Relation of Weight to Height. One of the best indicators 
of normal nutrition is the relation of weight to height. The 
following tables giving the average weight for different 
heights have been compiled : 



TABLE VU 

Symond's Table of Height and Weight for Men of Different Ages 

(Based on 74,162 Accepted Applicants for Life Insurance) 



Ages 






15-24!25-29|30-34 


35-39|40-44 | 45-49|50-54 | 55-59 


60-64 


65-69 


5 feet 




1 
2 
8 


inches.— 

inch 

inches.... 
inches.... 


120 
122 

124 
127 


125 
126 
128 
131 


128 
129 
131 


131 


133 


134 


134 


134 


131 




131 
133 


134 


136 


136 


136 


134 






136 


138 


138 


138 


137 






134 


136 


139 


141 


141 


141 


140 


140 




4 


inches.... 


131 


135 


138 


140 


143 


144 


145 


145 


144 


143 




5 


inches 


134 


138 


141 


143 


146 


147 


149 


149 


148 


147 




6 


inches.... 


138 


142 


145 


147 


150 


151 


153 


153 


153 


151 




7 


inches.... 


142 


147 


150 


152 


155 


156 


158 


158 


158 


156 




8 


inches 


146 


151 


154 


157 


160 


161 


163 


163 


163 


162 




9 


inches.... 


150 


155 


159 


162 


165 


166 


167 


168 


168 


168 




10 


inches.... 


154 


159 


164 


167 


170 


171 


172 


173 


174 


174 




n 


inches.... 


159 


164 


169 


173 


175 


177 


177 


178 


180 


180 


6 feet 





inches.... 


165 


170 


175 


179 


180 


183 


182 


183 


185 


185 




1 


inch 


170 


177 


181 


185 


186 


189 


188 


189 


189 


189 




?. 


inches.... 


176 


184 


188 


192 


194 


196 


194 


194 


192 


192 




3 


inches.... 


181 


190 


195 


200 


203 


204 


201 


198 













TABLE VHl 



Symond's Table of Height and Weight for Wemen of Different Ages 
(Based on 58,855 Accepted Applicants for Life Insurance) 



Ages 


! 15-191 20-241 25-291 30-34 


35-39 140-44 


45-49 


■50T54 


55-59 160-64 


4 feet 


11 inches.... 


Ill 


113 


115 


117 


119 


122 


125 


128 


128 


126 


5 feet 


inches.... 


113 


114 


117 


119 


122 


125 


128 


130 


131 


129 




1 inch 


115 


116 


118 . 


121 


124 


128 


131 


133 


134 


132 




2 inches.... 


117 


118 


120 


123 


127 


132 


134 


137 


137 


136 




3 inches.... 


120 


122 


124 


127 


131 


135 


138 


141 


141 


140 




4 inches.... 


123 


125 


127 


130 


134 


138 


142 


145 


145 


144 




5 inches.... 


125 


128 


131 


135 


139 


143 


147 


149 


149 


148 




6 inches.... 


128 


132 


135 


137 


143 


146 


151 


153 


153 


152 




7 inches.... 


132 


135 


139 


143 


147 


150 


154 


157 


156 


155 




8 inches.... 


136 


140 


143 


147 


151 


155 


158 


161 


161 


160 




9 inches.... 


140 


144 


147 


151 


155 


159 


163 


166 


166 


165 




10 inches.... 


144 


147 


151 


155 


159 


163 


167 


170 


170 


169 



What to Feed the Family 



45 



TABLE IX 
Height and Weight Table For Boys 



Height 1 
Inches 


5 


6 


7 


8 1 


9 1 


10 


11 


12 


13 14 1 15 1 16 1 17 1 18 


Yrs. 


Yrs. 


Yrs. 


Yrs. |Yrs.i 


Yrs. 


Yrs. 


Yrs. 


Yrs. Yrs. 1 Yrs. 1 Yrs. 1 Yrs. 1 Yrs. 


39 


35 


36 


37 
























40 


37 


38 


39 
























41 


39 


40 


41 
























42 


41 


42 


43 


44 






















43 


48 


44 


45 


46 






















44 


45 


46 


46 


47 






















45 


47 


47 


48 


48 


49 




















46 


48 


49 


50 


50 


51 




















47 




51 


52 


52 


53 


54 


















48 




53 


54 


55 


55 


56 


57 
















49 




55 


56 


57 


58 


58 


59 
















50 






58 
60 
62 


59 
61 
63 
66 
69 


60 
62 
64 
67 
70 
73 
77 


60 
63 
65 
68 

71 
74 
78 
81 
84 
87 
91 


61 
64 
67 
69 
72 
75 
79 
82 
85 
88 
92 
95 
100 
105 


62 
65 
68 
70 
73 
76 
80 
83 
86 
89 
93 
97 
102 
107 
113 


71 

74 
77 
81 
84 
87 
90 
94 
99 
104 
109 
115 
120 
125 
130 
134 
138 


78 
82 
85 
88 
92 
97 
102 
106 
111 
117 
122 
126 
131 
135 
139 
142 
147 
152 
157 
162 


86 
90 
94 
99 
104 
109 
114 
118 
123 
127 
132 
136 
140 
144 
149 
154 
159 
164 
169 
174 


91 
96 
101 
106 
111 
115 
119 
124 
128 
133 
137 
141 
145 
150 
155 
160 
165 
170 
175 


97 
102 
108 
113 
117 
120 
125 
129 
134 
138 
142 
146 
151 
156 
161 
166 

171 
176 




51 








52 








53 








54 










55 










56 












57 
58 
59 
60 
61 
62 
63 
64 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 
73 
74 
75 
76 


























































110 














116 














119 














122 




■"" 












126 





~" 














130 





" 














135 



















139 





~ 














143 








1 












147 






















162 




















157 




~ 
















162 




















167 





















1172 

























— - 


— - 


1177 



Prepared by Dr. Thomas D. Wood 

About What a Boy Should Gain Each Month 



AGE 

5 to 8 6 oz. 

8 to 12 8 oz. 



AGE 

12 to 16 16 oz. 

16 to 18 8 oz. 



Copyrighted by Child Health Orzanization. 



46 



University of Texas Bulletin 



TABLE X 
Height and Weight Table For Girls 



Height 
Inches 


5 
Yrs. 


6 
Yrs. 


7 
Yrs. 


8 
Yrs. 


9 
Yrs. 


10 
Yrs. 


11 
Yrs. 


12 
Yrs. 


13 
Yrs. 


Y^i. 


15 
Yrs. 


16 17 18 
Yrs. Yrs. Yrs. 


39 
40 
41 
42 
43 
44 
45 
46 
47 
48 
49 
50 ■ 


34 
36 
38 

40 
42 
44 
46 
48 


35 

37 
39 
41 
42 
45 
47 
48 
49 
51 
53 


36 
38 
40 
42 
43 
45 
47 
49 
50 
52 
54 
56 
59 
62 


43 
44 
46 
48 
50 
51 
53 
55 
57 
60 
63 
66 
68 


49 
51 
52 
54 
56 
58 
61 
64 
67 
69 
72 
76 


53 
55 

57 
59 
62 
65 
68 
70 
73 
77 
81 
85 
89 


56 
58 
60 
63 
66 
68 
71 
74 
78 
82 
86 
90 
94 
99 
104 
109 


61 

64 

67 

69 

72 

75 

79 

83 

87 

91 

95 

101 

106 

111 

115 

117 

119 


70 

73 

76 

80 

84 

88 

93 

97 

102 

107 

112 

117 

119 

121 

124 

126 

129 


77 

81 

85 

S9 

94 

99 

104 

109 

113 

118 

120 

122 

126 

128 

131 

134 

138 


86 
90 
95 
100 
106 
111 
115 
119 
122 
124 
127 
130 
133 
136 
140 
145 


91 
96 
102 
108 
113 
117 
120 
123 
126 
128 
132 
135 
138 
142 
147 


98 
104 
109 
114 
118 
121 
124 
127 
129 
133 
136 
139 
143 
148 




51 








52 








53 








54 










55 










56 












57 












58 














59 














60 












106 


61 














m 


62 














115 


63 














119 


64 














12?^ 


65 
















125 


66 
















128 


67 
















130 


68 


















134 


69 


















137 


70 


















140 


71 




















144 


72 





























149 



Prepared by Dr. Thomas D. Wood 



About What a Girl Should Gain Each Month 



AGE 

5 to 8 6 oz. 

8 to 11 8 oz. 

11 to 14 12 oz. 

Copyrighted by Child Health Orzanization. 



AGE 

14 to 16 8 oz. 

16 to 18 4 oz. 



r: eight and Weight ot White L^hildren trom l3irtn to o i ears ot Age^ 



Age 



White boys 



Height I Weight 
(inches) | (pounds)^ 



Under 1 month,. 



month, under 2. 
months, under i 
months, under < 
months, under I 
months, under ( 



6 months, under 

7 months, under 

8 months, under 

9 months, under 

10 months, under 

11 months 

12 months 

13 months 

14 months 

15 months, 

16 months 

17 months, 

18 months 

19 months 

20 months 

21 months 

22 months, 

23 months, 

24 months, 

25 ntionths 

26 months 

27 months, 

28 months 

29 months 

30 months 

31 months 

32 months 

33 months 

34 months 

35 months 

36 months 

37 months 

38 months 

39 months 

40 months 

41 months 

42 months 

43 months 

44 months 

45 months 

46 months 

47 months 

48 monthS; 

49 months 

50 months 

51 months 

52 months 

53 months 

54 months^ 

55 months. 

56 months 

57 months, 

58 months, 

59 months 

60 months 

61 months 

62 months 

63 months 

64 months 

65 months 

66 months 

67 months 

68 months 

69 months 

70 months 

71 months 



under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 
under 



10... 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 



34.. 
35.. 
36.. 
37.. 
38.. 
39.. 
40.. 
41.. 
42.. 
43.. 
44.. 
45.. 
46.. 
47.. 
48.. 
49.. 
50.. 
51.. 
52.. 
53.. 
54.. 
55.. 
56.. 
57.. 
58- 
59.. 
60.. 
61.. 
62.. 



211/8 

221/2 

23% 

241/2 

25% 

261/8 

26% 

27 1^ 

27% 

28% 

28% 

29 

291/2 

29 78 

30% 

30% 

31 

31% 

31% 

32% 

321/2 

32% 

33 

33% 

33% 

33 78 

341/8 

34% 

34% 

35 

35% 

351/2 

35% 

36 

36% 

361/2 

36% 

36 78 

37 78 
373/8 
37 78 

37 78 

38 78 
38 74 
38 72 

38 74 
39 

39 78 
391/4 
391/2 
39% 

39 78 
40 

40 74 
401/2 
40 78 
40 78 

4178 

41% 

411/2 

41% 

41% 

42 

42 78 

42 78 
421/2 
4234 
43 

431/8 
43% 
431/2 

43 78 



91/8 

10 78 

12 78 
141/8 
153/8 
16% 
171/2 

18 1/4 
19 

1 9 78 
20% 

20 3/4 

213/8 
2178 

22% 

22 3/4 
231/4 

23 74 
241/8 

24 78 
25 
251/2 

25 78 

26 74 
26% 
27 

27% 
27% 
28 
28 72 

28 78 
291/4 
291/2 

29 78 

30 78 
30 72 
30 74 
31 

3178 

31% 

32 

32 78 I 

32 74 

331/8 

331/2 

333/4 

34 

341/4 

341/2 

34% 

35 

35% 

351/2 

35 78 

36 78 

36 72 
36% 

37 78 
371/2 

37 74 

38 78 



39% 
391/2 

39 78 
40% 

40 78 
40 74 
41% 

41% 



White girls 



Height Weight 
(inches) (pounds)* 



20 78 
2178 

23 78 
24 

24 78 
251/2 
26 78 

26 3/4 

27% 
27% 
28 78 
28 72 
28 78 
291/4 
293/4 

30 78 
301/2 
30 78 
31% 
3178 

3178 

321/4 
321/2 

32 74 

33 78 
333/8 

33 78 
34 

34% 
341/2 

34 78 
351/8 
353/8 

35 78 
353/4 
36 
36% 

36 72 
36% 
37 

37% 
371/2 
3774 
38 
38 78 

38 3/8 

38 72 

38% 

38 78 

391/8 

39% 

391/2 

39% 

40 

40% 

40 3/8 

40 78 

40 78 

41 

41% 

41% 

4178 

41% 

4178 

42 78 

42% 

42% 

42% 

42 78 

431/8 

431/2 

43% 



8% 

10 78 
113/4 
13 

14% 

153/8 

16% 

171/8 

17% 

18 1/2 

19 

191/2 

20 

201/2 

21 

213/8 

2178 

22 78 
22% 
23% 

23 78 

24 78 
241/2 
24% 
25% 
251/2 

25 78 
26% 

26 74 

27 78 
27 72 

27 78 

28 74 
28 72 

28 78 
291/4 
29% 

29 78 

30 78 
301/2 
30 78 
31% 

3172 
3174 

32 78 
32 3/8 
32 78 

32 78 

33 78 

33 72 
33% 
34 
34% 

34 78 
35 

35 78 

35 78 
36 
36% 

36 72 

36 78 

37 78 
373/8 
3734 
38 
38% 

38 78 



39% 

40 78 
40 72 



iThese figures are based upon measurements of 167,024 white boys and girls 
for whom no serious defects were reported. The averages as calculated have been 
smoother and corrected to allow for the inclusion in the basic figures of children 
with adenoids, diseased or enlarged tonsils or carious teeth, and they represent, 
therefore, so far as the material permits, average heights and weights of children 
without defects. 

^Weights do not include clothing. 

U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau. 



48 University of Texas Bulletin 

Some explanation of these figures is necessary if they are 
to be interpreted correctly. In every case they represent 
averages, and we can use them as standards only with cer- 
tain reservations. In the case of adults, they are based on 
accepted applicants for life insurance and for children are 
compiled from weight of normal children taken from various 
sources. In the case of children under six years of age, the 
figures represent averages from 167,024 white children. 
These were obtained by the Children's Bureau, and include 
only children without defects or diseases. It has been es- 
timated, from a study of weight in relation to mortality 
records that among young people, the greatest vitality co- 
incides with a weight somewhat above the accepted average, 
while with middle aged and elderly people a condition of 
slightly less than average fatness is more conducive to 
longevity. In other words, young people tend to keep them- 
selves slightly too thin and older people to allow themselves 
to grow slightly too fat. It has been suggested that we take 
figures five per cent above the average as desirable weights 
for younger people and figures five per cent below the av- 
erage for middle-aged and elderly people. The size of the 
bony framework of the body should perhaps be considered 
also, a person of the broad-shouldered, big-boned type need- 
ing to weigh more than the average, and a person with nar- 
row shoulders and small bones, less. Ten per cent above or 
below weight is considered normal, that is, not until a per- 
son is more than ten per cent above or below weight are 
special dietetic measures considered necessary. In using 
the table for children under six years of age, weight should 
be considered in relation to height rather than age, just as 
in the other tables. It is not nearly so important that a 
child attain a certain height at a certain age, as that he at- 
tain the weight suitable for his height. 

Other Indications of Bad Nutrition. But underweight is 
not the only sign of bad nutrition, nor are improper food 
and bad food habits the only causes. Other signs of bad 
nutrition in children are over-serious face, dark circles un- 
der the eyes, pallor and bad color, winged shoulder blades. 



What to Feed the Family 49 

hollow chest, protruding abdomen, flexed knees, often spinal 
curvature and flat feet, and a general posture of fatigue. 
The causes of malnutrition in children are stated by Dr. 
Emerson to be as follows : 

1. Physical defects, especially obstructions of the breath- 
ing passages. Children must be "free to breathe" if they 
are to be "free to gain." Adenoids, enlarged or diseased 
tonsils, or growths in the nose, eye strain, defects of hear- 
ing, hollow chest, crooked back, flat feet, may hold children 
back from normal gain. 

2. Lack of home control. This means that the parents 
must assume the intelligent direction of the family, and not 
leave it to the children, who are usually ready to assume this 
responsibility, especially in America. 

3. Overfatigue. Rest is as important as food in a child's 
development, and few of them have enough of it. The school 
program is often too intense for the growing child ; he has 
too many outside activities, such as classes, clubs, or lessons ; 
he is up much too late at night, and is too fatigued to get 
proper nourishment from his food. 

4. Insufficient food and improper food habits, fast eat- 
ing, badly balanced meals, irregular times for eating. 

5. Faulty health habits, lack of fresh air, neglect of teeth, 
too little playtime, etc. 

Many of the signs of under-nutrition in the child can also 
be applied to adults, and we constantly see bad complexions, 
stooped shoulders, and poor posture which mean either bad 
food habits, some other bad health habits, or possibly the 
existence of some chronic disease. It behooves anyone 
whose condition indicates bad nutrition to have a thorough 
physical examination and to take note of his health habits 
and correct those that are bad. Along with this, however, 
some changes in dietary habits are usually necessary. There 
are a great many people who habitually eat too much or too 
little, although it is often difficult to convince them of this. 
The stout person will insist that he really eats very little, 
and this may be true as far as bulk is concerned, but the 
stout person almost invariably likes lots of butter, plenty of 



50 



University of Texas Bulletin 



sugar, and cream, gravy with his meat, and pie or pudding 
with rich sauces for dessert. Potatoes and rice are his 
favorite vegetables, and candy between meals is not frowned 
upon. If you will turn back to your table of caloric values, 




Courtesy Child Health Organization 

"Underweight" is not only a verdict of rejection from the 

army. It may, at the age of ten, sentence a growing boy 

to a lifetine inefficiency and misery. 



you will find that it doesn't take much food of this kind to 
meet the energy requirement. All extra calories are stored 
as fat. The thin person, on the other hand, will assure you 
that he eats plenty. And, again, maybe he does as far as 



What to Feed the Famikj 



51 



bulk is concerned. But he will carefully discard the fatty 
part of his meat and refuse gravy. He doesn't really care 
for butter, and pies and puddings give him indigestion. It 
is not the quantity of food eaten as much as the kind of food 
selected that determines nutritive balance. 
Reducing and Fattening Diets. At a home economics ex- 
hibit, arrangements were made in the room devoted to nu- 
trition, to weigh and measure all visitors. They were then 
given copies of the height and weight charts, told how to 
find what they should weigh according to their height, and 
referred to two charts, on which exceedingly slim ''Little 
Mary" and horribly fat ''Mrs. Jenks" were instructed as to 
the kinds of food they should select. These charts are re- 
produced on pages 54 and 55. Perhaps the following fat- 
tening and reducing dietaries will also be found helpful. 

FATTENING DIETARIES 



I. Fuel Value — 2500 Calories 


II. Fuel Value — 3,000 calories 


Breakfast 




Breakfast 


Orange — 1 large 




Prunes — 4 medium 


Grape-nuts— 3 Tb. 




Oatmeal — % c. 


Thin cream — V4. cup 




Egg— 1 


Sugar — 1 Tb. 




Toast — 2 slices 


Bacon — 2 slices 




Butter— 1 Tb. 


Bread — 2 slices 




Thin cream — % c. 


Butter— 1 Tb. 




Sugar— 1 T. 


Milk — 1 glass 




Coffee— 1 c. 


Lunch 




10:30 a. m. 


Cheese fondue — 2/3 > 


cup 


Cup of cocoa 


Bread — 2 slices 






Butter — 1 Tb. 




Lunch 


Apple jelly — 1 Tb. 




Corn chowder — 3/5 c. 


Creamy rice pudding- 


— 1/2 cup 


Fruit salad — % c 


Thick cream — 1 T. 




Rolls— 2 


Cocoa — 1 c. 




Butter— 1 Tb. • 
Chocolate blanc mange with 
whipped cream 



52 



University of Texas Bulletin 



Dinner 

Potato soup — 1 c. 

Crackers — 2 

Baked chicken — large serving 

Seamed rice — V2 c. 

Gravy — 2 Tb. 

Creamed spinach — V2 c. 

Bread — 2 slices 

Butter — 1 Tb. 

Lemon pie — medium slice 

Milk — 1 glass 

III. Fuel Value — 3,500 calories 



Breakfast 

Grape juice — 1 c. 
Farina with 4 dates — 
Scrambled eggs — V2 c 
Toast — 1 slice 
Butter— 1/2 T. 
Thin cream — 7/8 c. 
Sugar — 2 T. 
Coffee — 1 c. 



% c. 



4:00 p. m. 

Glass of milk 

Dinner 

Broiled steak — medium serving 
Scalloped potatoes — 1 c. 
Buttered beets — 1/3 c. 
Lettuce and tomato salad — 

1 serving 
Boiled custard — V2 c. 
Salted almond — 12 
Macaroons — 2 

Dinner 

Cream of corn soup — Ic 
Roast beef — large serving 
Baked potato — 1 medium 
Buttered lime beans — 3/8 c. 
Whole wheat bread — 2 slices 
Butter — 2 T. 
Baked apple- — 1 large 
Thin cream — V2 c. 
Sugar— 1 T 



Lunch 

Creamed chicken — V2 c. on 
Toast — 1 slice 
Lettuce salad — 1 serving 
Saltines — 3 



Hot chocolate — 1 c. 



REDUCING DIETARIES 



I. Fuel Value — 1100 calories II. Fuel Value — 1,350 Calories 



Breakfast 

Apple — 1 medium 
Eggs — 1 
Toast — 1 slice 
Coffee — 1 cup 
Skim milk— 11/2 Tb. 



Breakfast 

Grape fruit — V2 
Sugar — 1 tsp. 
Bacon — 3 slices 
Toast — 1 slice 
Coffee (black) — 1 c 



What to Feed the Family 



53 



(^unch 

Bouillon — V2 cup 

Crackers — 1 

Roast beef — medium serving 

Lettuce and cottage cheese salad 

Lettuce — as much as one 
wants 

Cheese— 2 1/2 Tb. 

Fr. dressing — V2 Tb. 
Tea with lemon 

Dinner 

Baked fish — large serving I 

Boiled potato — % medium 

Cauliflower (plain) — large serv. 

Butter — 1 T. 

Cold Slaw — 1 cup 

Bread — 1 thin slice 

Orange — 1 

Hot skim milk — Vz cup 



Lunch 

Clear soup — 1 c 

Crackers — 4 

Steamed fish — large serving 

Spinach — 1 c 

Bread — 1 slice 

Apple and celery salad 

Lettuce — as much as desired 

Apple — 1/2 

Celery — 1 stalk 

Fr. dressing — V2 Tb. 



Broiled steak (lean) med. serv. 

Baked potato — V2 med. 

Butter — 1/2 Tb. 

Fruit salad — V2 c. 

Bread — 1 slice 

Hot skim milk — V^ c. 



IIL 



Fupl Value — 1,500 



Breakfast 




Orange — 1 


Dinner 


Poached agg — 1 


Lean roast beef — medium serv. 


Bacon — 2 slices 


Mashed potato — V2. cup 


Toast — 1/2 slice 


Asparagus with butter 


Coffee— 1 c 


Ten stalks asparagus 


Skim milk— 3 Tb. 


1/2 Tb. butter 


Sugar — 1 tsp. 


Bread — 1 slice 




Grape fruit — V2 


Lunch 


Sugar — 1 tsp. 


Clear tomato soup — 'V2 c 


Hot skim milk — V2 cup. 



Crackers — 2 

Codfish balls — 2 

Tomato and lettuce salad 
Lettuce — as much as ( 

wants 
Tomatoes — 1 medium 
French dressing — % Tb. 

Graham bread — 2 thin slices 

Baked apple — 1 



Will m^i^ lUrs, links /i/f^mr c^^Jpii/mp, 




* /\aau^ fats a.nJ cO'f/u> confaini/u/ /^/ c^'/'^/^-v?/,/'/,'/ 
butUr 3/iJ cre^sm a/m<?^/ cnhre/i/. 
the fucjar ^par/'mj/i/ ^s^nJ .ii'L->u^ con^L^i/tf^'ni 
Cat anlc/ small guanliii^^ ^'^ d^^.iJ ^jn^/f^- 

(jrccn uepc'/uMc^s j^^all (''/>u^> pre pa re J w/^out l>a//er 
rrcfh fra//- shouU he suhsiihJeJ K-'r pmi^'''u;< edke<- .2rk/ pie> 
Lean mea/s s/mp/i/ cvM^ed niju t>e une^f literal/u. /^ 
plenh/ p^^ ,<^~reen ec^'elatlc^ Ire fnehiA\/. 



Coffee iSnel tea untkoui' 

milk or su^ar- ^leal lfr<^f-h 

[fat skimmed off I with 

uege tables, lean meal or 

fi^fi^ OL/^ter^, lean, cheese. 

Suck eco(^lat'/es as .^ra^tu^e, 

cclerc/. letlu^^. ^p/'naeti, 

caull flow/^r-, ■loma/i->e^ ane^ n2/^/s/747F, 

Qeuif frufl as apples, feae/ze^, 

strawberries, raspl>err/^^, 

60 ur cherries, ^ape/i^uif: an// oranges. 

fggs sklmm^{l mM (SnJ l^ull^mili:, ' 






Liffle Man/ was mas/' eJ(e<?&:/i/K//(/ f/iin 
OH angles u/her^^thn ci/roesshou/d havei>e^n 
^on ifiif u/o/j/' boii/ h0: for skfw/Iq /mv/b'^ 
lb fdlloivl'he follomg fcifhm^ ^c/i0ne< 



fAT- 



'V7. 



' ^/mp/e. foods iu/j/di dona/' i^pscf' Jii/ct^f/a 
' ' fofF or cereaf w/f'h p/^nfi/ i^f*cn:cym jticfsi'^ar 
'Ot/aast f-wo slices of . breaJ 1^^7/11/ spn'^d ' 

u^/lh i^i/ller cfl well mOi^L 

^0m/^'frf^r/7//?^ Ii//?cIj of milk cind cyvckers 

onJ i:f abss of /fflli i^e/ore bcdl/frjc, ^o^hl/jc/ i.'l/(^ lf^^uf^/i/7pk' 

III? CrCi^f^ Sai/c'C, or c7S soW 



Of 11/7 mai/o/^wlse, rro/JCl? or ava/n Jros^/n^j. 
' m^l //7 /vo^lan7l/o/i^ hl^l l^lasw^lloska/i. 

Select Tood ^ROf^ rouDwitiG Lists 

Protein:- fgqs.ali/cJb/j^lysAb^fmllkxIJm^. 

CARBOHY[>nATE^>dolmia)rmMrm/mcormL 
zmixjcfj, poldloes, sif^/or /jo^et/. dr/odpeos. ff^^slj lri//rs. 
che^i/ls, cjrcjpo-ji//^^. . . • 

Fat-- B^co/7; creaw, bi/HoKmllt olm mJ 

piicint/t 07/. , 






56 University' of Texas Bulletin 

Nutrition Classes. The problem of the malnourished 
child has come to be recognized as the biggest problem in 
nutrition today. This was forcibly called to our attention 
by the alarming amount of unfitness in the men examined 
for the army. The Nutrition Class, which has already been 
mentioned, was instituted to help solve this problem, and a 
description of some of the methods used will not be amiss 
here. Although these classes have been introduced in play- 
ground centers and in other places where groups of chil- 
dren come together, they belong in the school, as it is there 
they can be of greatest value. When put into a school, the 
following procedure is followed : 

1. All the children in the school are weighed and 
measured, and are given tags to take home, telling what they 
should weigh and what they do weigh. 

2. Those who are more than ten per cent underweight, 
or who show other signs of undernourishment, are put into 
a special class, which meets once a week. 

3. Each child is given a careful examination for physical 
defects by a physician. The mothers are advised of the re- 
sults and are urged to have these defects remedied. 

4. At the weekly meeting, each child is weighed and re- 
tagged, and a short talk is given on some good food or health 
habit. Weight charts are kept for each child. On each is 
a line indicating the normal growth curve for children. 
This is explained to the child, and a line below it, represent- 
ing his weight, is started. As the weight is recorded each 
week, the child is interested in seeing his own weight line ap- 
proach the normal line. Rivalry, as to who can gain the 
most, is also encouraged, and various colored stars are given 
for the child making the greatest gain ; for observing certain 
food rules for the week, etc. Fairy stories, plays, games, 
and songs are introduced to get the material across to the 
child, the material and methods used depending on the age 
of the child. 

Excellent results have been obtained through these Nutri- 
tion Classes but what is really needed is health instruction 
for every child in school. It should be made as vital a part 



What to Feed the Family 



57 



of the school program as grammar or arithmetic. Is it not 
as important? Because a child shows no signs of malnutri- 
tion does not necessarily mean that he is properly fed. He 
may have enough vitality to withstand the effects of im- 
proper food, for some time, but, in the end, he is almost 
sure to suffer, and this could be prevented if proper food 
habits were early taught and impressed upon him. 

THE ECONOMIC ASPECT OF FOOD 

The making of proper menus is not a difficult job if we 
are not limited in the amount of money that can be spent, 
but when it is necessary that we be as economical as pos- 
sible, food must be carefully chosen, in order to get the best 




NUTRITION CLASS IN ONE OF THE AUSTIN SCHOOLS 



value for our money. A comparison of foods according to 
the cost of the 100-calorie portion is valuable from the stand- 
point of the amount of energy value you are getting in re- 
turn for your expenditure, but it is apt to be misleading, 
since energy need is only one of the body needs, and we 
should consider a food from the standpoint of energy, pro- 
tein, minerals, and vitamines. Since it is impossible to ex- 
press the result of such a consideration in any concrete way. 



58 



University^ of Texas Bulletin 



it seems best to consider energy-giving foods from the stand- 
point of cost of energy, protein-giving foods from the stand- 
point of cost of protein, and mineral giving foods from the 
standpoint of cost of minerals, remembering that energy-giv- 
ing foods contain certain amount of protein and minerals, 
and that the protein-giving and mineral foods have varying 
amounts of energy-value. We do not knov^ enough about the 
vitamines to make a comparison from this standpoint pos- 
sible. 

Comparison of Energy-Givers. Table 12 gives the cost 
of the 100-calorie portion of the foods that we think of 
chiefly as energy-givers. 

TABLE XII 



Comparison of Energy-Giving Foods 

Food Calories Cost Cost of 100 

per lb. per lb. calories 

Starchy Vegetables 

Irish potatoes 304 .04 .013 

Sweet potatoes 447 .06 .013 

Cereals 

Cornflakes 1631 .30 .018 

Grape-nuts 1683 .25 .015 

Macaroni 1624 .29 .018 

Puffed corn 1600 .48 .030 

Puffed rice 1600 .58 .036 

Puffed wheat 1600 .48 .030 

Shredded wheat 1657 .22 .013 

Cornmeal 1613 .04 .003 

Cream of wheat 1641 .17 .010 

Hominy grits 1608 .09 .006 

Oatmeal 1803 .12 .007 

Rice 1591 .07 .004 

Breadstuffs 

White bread 1177 .08 .007 

Graham bread 1140 .08 .007 

Cornmeal muffins 1332 .12 .009 

Baking powder biscuit 1232 .10 .008 

Graham crackers 1904 .27 .014 

Soda crackers 1875 .20 .010 

Rolls 1232 .10 .008 



What to Feed the Family 59 



Cakes and Cookies 

Doughnuts 1940 

Molasses cookies 1776 

Plain cookies 1776 

Loaf cakes (egg) 1600 

Angel cake 1232 

Sweets 

Chocolate fudge 1776 

Corn syrup 1056 

Honey 1480 

Maple syrup 1328 

Molasses 1328 

Sugar (granulated) 1814 

Sugar, loaf 1814 

Sugar, brown 1720 

Fats 

Bacon fat 4000 

Butter 3490 

Cream thin 880 

Cream thick 1730 

Cream whipped 1730 

Oleomargarine 3490 

Olive oil 4000 

Wesson oil 4000 



From this it will be found that the cost of 100-calories 
varies from .003c, when the energy comes from cornmeal, 
to .036c for puffed rice. The difference of energy cost in 
the ready-to-serve and the uncooked cereals is apparent; 
none of the uncooked cereals, except cream of wheat, cost- 
ing as much as a cent per 100-calories, and the prepared 
cereals ranging in price from .013c to .036c, the puffed 
cereals costing over twice as much as those prepared in some 
other way. The starchy vegetables compare favorably with 
the prepared cereals in fuel value, while most of the bread- 
stuffs, plain cakes, and cookies, and sweets are to be classed 
with the uncooked cereals. Exceptions to this are graham 
crackers, soda crackers, honey, and maple syrup, which are 
somewhat more expensive. In considering cakes and 
cookies, it must be noted that the estimates that make them 
comparable to uncooked cereals are made while eggs are 
cheap (twenty cents per dozen), and that a higher cost of 



.19 


.009 


.12 


.007 


.13 


.007 


.12 


.007 


.19 


.015 


.16 


.009 


.10 


.009 


.18 


.012 


.32 


.024 


.13 


.009 


.10 


.005 


.14 


.007 


.14 


.008 


9 


? 


.40 


.011 


.20 


.022 


.35 


.02 


? 


? 


.33 


.009 


.90 


.022 


.35 


.009 



60 



Universitip of Texas Bulletin 



eggs will make them more expensive fuel sources. Cream 
and olive oil are rather dear fuels, while the other fats cost 
about the same as uncooked cereals. Note the difference in 
the cost of olive oil and Wesson oil. 

Comparison of Protein Foods. We can find our cheapest 
protein food by comparing the cost of each that it takes to 
give 75 grams of protein, the total amount required each day, 
by the body. This is done in Table 13. 

TABLE XIII 
Comparison of Protein-Containing Foods 



Approximate 
amount 
Food Price per lb. containing 

75 gms. 

Beef Pounds 

Liver 20 4/5 

Loin 30 1 

Porterhouse steak 35 9/10 

Round steak 30 9/10 

Rump 25 1 1/5 

Tongue .20 1 1/5 

Pork 

Ham, boiled 65 4/5 

Loin chops 30 1 1/5 

Shoulder - .25 1 1/5 

Sausage meat 25 1 

Lamb 

Leg, hind - 30 1 

Loin 30 1 

Shoulder 30 1 1/5 

Chicken - 25 1 1/5 

Fish 

Cod, salt (canned) 40 9/10 

Trout 25 1 4/5 

Mackerel 25 1 3/5 

Oysters 28 2 4/5 

Eggs 132 1 2/5 

Cheese 

American 30 1/2 

Cottage 25 4/5 



Cost of 
75 gms. 

.160 
.300 
.315 
.270 
.300 
.240 

.520 
.360 
.300 
.250 

.300 
.300 
.360 
.300 

.360 
.450 
.400 
.780 
.184 

.150 
.200 



3 2/5 


.680 


3 2/5 


1.700 


7/10 


.088 


7/10 


.098 


5 


,375 



What to Feed the Family 61 

Nuts 

Walnuts 20 

Pecans 50 

Dried beans 10 

Dried peas 10 

Milk 075 

Dried beans and peas prove to be our cheapest sources of 
protein, with cheese, eggs, and peanuts second. Peanuts are 
a much cheaper source of protein than any of the other nuts. 
Since it takes so nearly the same amount of meat to furnish 
the daily supply of 75 grams, the cost of meat as a protein 
can be fairly accurately based on its cost per pound. Milk 
compares with the medium priced cuts of meat, as a source 
of protein. 

Compa7ison of Mineral-Containing Foods, When we put 
together the list of foods high in calcium, phosphorus, and 
iron, we have thirty-seven foods which, for practical pur- 
poses, may be considered together as the best foods to de- 
pend on for our mineral supply. Almost all of these are 
fresh vegetables and fruits, and the price varies so much 
with the season that data relative to the cost is apt to be 
misleading. The ones that are cheapest at any particular 
season are to be considered the most economical mineral 
sources. Ordinarily, cabbage, onions, turnips, spinach, 
squash, and carrots are among the cheaper sources, while 
celery, lettuce, cauliflower, asparagus, and brussels sprouts 
are among the most expensive. Cheese and dried beans 
are cheap sources of minerals, and as they are also cheap 
sources of protein, they should occupy a large place in a diet 
where rigid economy must be observed. Whole wheat flour 
and all-grain cereals are also deserving of wider popularity, 
since they furnish both minerals and vitamines in addition 
to energy. 

In many cases, we have the dried, fresh, or canned prod- 
uct to select from. The dried fruits and vegetables are 
always cheap sources of minerals compared with the fresh 
or canned. Drying does not, of course, affect the mineral 
content, but it is likely to destroy or diminish the vitamine 



52 University of Texas Bulletin 

content. So also is canning. Except for flavor and ease 
of preparation, the canned fruits and vegetables have no ad- 
vantage over the dried, and when v^e are constructing cheap 
menus, the dried products must be used extensively. Canned 
products are apt to be more expensive than fresh, except 
when the fresh products are purchased out of season or at 
the very beginning of the season, when the reverse is usually 
true. To avoid buying fruits and vegetables that are not 
in season must, then, become one of the maxims of the 
economical housewife. 

Let us consider our type menu in the light of food econ- 
omy. The fruit for breakfast would have to be selected 
from the dried fruits with an occasional serving of some 
of the fresh fruits that are in the height of their season. 
The cereal would, in the winter, be cornmeal mush, oatmeal, 
rice, or hominy grits; in the summer, shredded wheat, 
cornflakes, or grape-nuts. There could be a considerable 
choice of breadstuffs, and we should never attempt to violate 
the rule of a pint of milk a day for every child, even when 
the most rigid economy is necessary and when milk is high 
in price. Everything considered — digestibility, protein con- 
tent, and quality of protein, energy value and mineral and 
vitamine content, milk gives us more in return for our 
money than any other food, unless it is exceptionally high 
in price. We are on dangerous ground when we attempt 
to substitute other food for milk, especially in the diet of 
the child. Dried beans or peas would appear quite fre- 
quently as the main dish for luncheon, with some of the 
cheese dishes for variety. The salads would have to be 
mostly vegetable salads, with boiled dressing instead of 
mayonnaise, and some of the nut margarines substituted 
for butter. The cheaper cuts of meat must be utilized for 
dinner, and most of the combination meat dishes will be 
found valuable in constructing a cheap menu. The starchy 
vegetables are not expensive if you get a good, sound prod- 
uct. But often there is much waste. Rice is cheaper than 
potatoes and there is little waste. The use of rice as a 
starchy vegetable has much to recommend it. The green 



What to Feed the Family 63 

vegetable selected will depend on the time of year and the 
market. Simple puddings are one of the cheapest forms of 
dessert, and rice pudding, cottage pudding, chocolate blanc 
mange, etc. may be used to fill this need. Of course when 
the most rigid economy is necessary the type menu will 
probably have to be discarded altogether, desserts and sal- 
ads being omitted and only the plainest and simplest food 
used. Reducing the dietary to its lowest cost always means 
emphasizing the non-perishable staple foods, such as cereals 
and dried fruits and vegetables and a very sparing use of 
meat and fresh or canned fruits and vegetables. 

The Food Budget. There must be, of course, a minimum 
amount for which a family can be properly fed. In 1919, 
quite an extensive survey of living costs was made by the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics under the direction of Mr. Royal 
Meeker, United States Commissioner of Labor Statistics. 
This included an analysis of the food budgets of nearly thir- 
teen thousand families, obtained in seventy-one large cities 
and twenty-six small towns in the different geographical 
sections of the country, with incomes of $900 to $2500. 
As a result of this analysis, it was concluded that from fifty 
to sixty cents per man per day was necessary to secure a 
weil-balanced diet, sufficient in the number of calories and 
in variety. Perhaps this "per man per day" basis needs 
some explanation, as it is easily misunderstood. In order to 
have some unit of measurement, we have to express the food 
consumption of families in terms of a common unit of meas- 
ure, and we do this in terms of the adult man, counting each 
individual in the family over 14 years of age as 1 unit, 
between 11 and 14 years .9 of a unit, between 7 and 10 years 
.75 of a unit, 4 to 6 years .4 of a unit, and 3 years and under 
.15 of a unit. Thus, a family consisting of mother, father 
and three children, aged three, seven and twelve would 
contain 3.8 per man per day units (l4-l+.9+.75-f .15). 

Food prices have fallen considerably since the above in- 
vestigation was made, and it can now be estimated that, 
when rigid economy is observed, proper food may be ob- 
tained for from 45 to 50 cents per day per person. Fifty- 
five to sixty cents is a good average allowance for food. 



64 University of Texas Bulletin 

With this amount to spend, menus approximating the one 
already outlined may be furnished. 

The amount of money spent for food will always depend 
upon the income of the family, the smaller the income, the 
larger the percentage spent for food. On a basis of 55 
cents per day per person, it would require about $800 per 
year for food for the average family of five — mother, father, 
and three children between the ages of four and fourteen. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 337 661 8 



